894.76 Wireless Telephone. Broadcasting. Divided As 8**.73., October 24, 1940 - July 12, 1943 (File 1392), part 2 of 3
ID: 894.76-1392-2   Pages: 429   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.76-wireless-telephone-broadcasting-6/894.76%20Wireless%20Telephone.%20Broadcasting.%20Divided%20As%208%2A%2A.73.%2C%20October%2024%2C%201940%20-%20July%2012%2C%201943%201392-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
Page #3
News of the naval air force raiding Chungking for the 17th
timo
News of the naval air force stationed along the Yanetze
River raiding Ochaku, an important railway station.
News of the turn of the Japanese military mission to
Germany ana Italy, led by General Yamashita.
According to a DNB dispatch of July 6, Cermn troops have
broken through the Sualin line and captured many arms and am-
muriticn and ove: 300, 000 Russians have beel. captured since the
outbreak of ve war.
More r ws of the German-Ruesirn war. Have not been trans-
lated because of its similarity with the news published by the
Star bulietin and Advertiser.
News of the outbreak of the war between Equador and Peru.
News of the Week:
Nevs of Japan's policy decided at the Imperial con-
ference.
News of Premier Koncye's redioration or July 1.
News o? the anno insement of the Jepanese
troops'
success on Juy 5th.
News oi the army's recent shak -up.
News o the various functions eing held in conmemoration
of the fourth anniversary cf ho ineident.
News of the donations made to the war fund, as announced
by the Government on July Sth. Tota1 donations -- 135,040, 000 yen.
Of this, 3,60,000 yen were doneted by the Japanese residents
abrcad.
News of the organization of the Rising Asia Federation.
News of the change made in the grading of students' work
at the Kokumin Gakko.
News of the recogniticn of the Wanking Covernment by the
European nations.
Japanese Iusic by Aiko Haida.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #4
Talk by Masao .....
.......:, director of the second sec.
ticn of the army's publicity bureau, on the fourth anniversary of
the China incident:-- Fellow country men of abroad, on welcoming
this fourth anniversary of the China incedent today, July 7th, we
hundred million subjects of Japan, whuld like to pray for the
success of the officers and men of the army and navy, who are
fight:ng on the hot continent and in the rough China Sea for the
creation of a new crder in East Asia, besides, exte ding our sin-
cere appreciation toward the departed souls of the 100,0o de-
fenders of our country and preying fcr the early recoupera icn of
the numerous wounded soldiers. As you already know through the
radio and other sources, the Chungking regime has been dealt a
great blow by our mighty and effijient soldiers during the past
four years, suffering a casualty of more that three to four mil-
lion men. Besides, with her political afiairs not going along as'
expeuied, ste is confronting a serlous econcmie disruptioh. Thus,
the suff ring cf the people of China is mcre than we can imagine.
Yet, Chiang Kai-shek, relying upon tho assistance frcm England and
America, has carried on a futile war until today with the hope of
defeating apan, simply because he is unable to understand Japan's
real motive. Thus, today he is being forcad to carry on the war
fon the sakc or seif-preservation and also due to the demanas of
England and Anerica, Furthermore, although his relationship with
the Communist Army appears to be amicable on the surface, it,
in rellity, is a headacho for Chiang Kal-shek and will probubly
remain as a suourge. Now, in regerd to the questions: "my is is
that (liang Kci-shek is still able to continue her war ageinst
Japan in spite of her condtion?" and "Thy doesn't Japan make
Chiang Kai-shak suirender completely?" , I wouid like you to take
into cnnsideration the following facts. The first is that Chine
is a great country and is unlike Europe. Thereforo, even if the
German troops, which roputediy have the bost arms in the world,
were to undertako it, it would be impossible for them to push
ahead more rapidly. Furthermore, when tho transportation facili-
ties that are ccmpared with those cf Europe, there is a great
difference, making it impossible to utilizo modern stretegy effedt-
ively. To unreasonably move the army forward into the interior
of China, whoso conditions are so diffcrent, would be like follow-
ing the example of Napoleon when he invaded Russia and would be
like falling into tho traps of tho enenmy. Therefore, the best
policy is to try to defeat the enomy in a prctracted war. On the
other hand, the Chinese troops as woll εs the Chinese people ara
like primitive animals, for they have tho constituticn of being
ablo to romain alive even if their body is cut in half. There-
fore, if they were a civilized nation, they would be a nation
which no one can handle. Tho nations assisting this Chungking
Government, which is on the vorgo of destruction, are England and
America and tho aim of England and Amorica's assistance to China
is to establish a dofonse against Japan and to expand and exhaust
Japan's power. (Tho speakor then discusses tho Nanking govern-
mont and Wang Ching-wei and the cooperation Japan is recciving
from same. He thon finishes by stating that China's relying on
England and America's aid would eventually mako China a colonial
settlemont of thoso countrios.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
Staticn JLU4 Program
Late July 8, 1941
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Note: Last half hour only, recorded.)
Record starts in the middle of the comment on current
ovente: Through this incident, Japan has been victorious in
evary battle and has greatly strengthened her national power,
In
contrest this, the Chungking goverrment has lost her economic
strength. The reason why Chungking regims is still able to hold
her pxition es ar enemy of Japan, althougn somewnat weakly, is
due to the aid from England and Americe In other wcrds, uhis
relation will b dsfinitely settled by this incident and a rew
and glorious  eriod will be unfolded. The establishment of the
Nankis regime is one of its signs, und this icin Sinc Japanese
effort to orecte a new order in Eesr Asis has been recognized by
the v vions n tiuns ef Europe, althcugh America and Engia  are
covor ng th ir yes to the new orcer in East Asia. In looking at
te ine ient, it is absolutely necessary to take into cons dera-
tior tee relationship between Chiang Kai-shek and England and
Ame ica Thorefore. it does not mean that the ineident wi'l' be
seitled with tr down fall of the Chungking regime. Insteca.
roal setolemen: can only be ettained by irceine China from the
aggressive hends, which are trying to profit by the war between
China and Japan. Thus, the peculiar neture of the Chiaa ircileit
is th't it is a war to liberate the who e of East Isia. Ccase-
quently, tho vascs of Eass Asia are wiilins to fight fr the crea-
tion f Asia Ic: the Asiatics. Explaining this in detail, it
meens thet the Kanking governnient is trying to make even the
people under o Cnungking governmont cooperete in the croations
of a new ordo: :n East Asia and to free East Asia from aggressive
hands vler th, leadorship of Japan. he Holy var has boen con-
tinued for four yoars and our troops have made great constructive
achievemonts. Those achiovements of the past four years have now
becone the unshakable foundat on for the creation of & new order
in East Asia, and Japan is constructing a brilliant tomple called
the new ordor of East Asia on this unshakablo foundetion. Until
this is completely constructed, Japan will fight against all ob-
stacles of the enemy nations. On welcoming this fourth anniver-
sary of the inciient, the nation has renewed its determinations
to ascomplish its aim, besides expressirg its thanks to the de-
parted souls of its mon and praying for the success of its officers
and men. The four years of holy war has now indicated to the races
of east asis tho fact that this war is boing fought to liberate
East Asia and for tho sake of tho reces of East Asia.
Japanose National Anthom.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JLU4 Program
:ate 7/9/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocyoles
(ote: Last half hour recorded)
Record startes in the middle of the comment on current
events: She is trying to avoid it through America, England and
Sovies Russia's check of Jaran and at the same time is desperately
scheming to make these nations share the same fate of the sake of
Liookading Japan. However, due to the internal strife, confusion
and dissatisfaction, her plan seems to be moving not as fest as
expected. Besides, as for the nations that have been consulted by
Chung ing, they seem to be afraid of taking a hand in it in view
of Japar's p erful strength and are assisting from afar only.
At s. n a tine, the national policy that chould be carried out
by Jauan vas Jecided at the Imperil ccnference and the cabiret
compluteu iis preparations to carry out its fixed policy. Thus,
the nition has come to realize this new swing and solidify its
determi: ation. There is a necessity for Chungking and the nations
assisuivs her to reconsider this rality and realize the insigni-
ficsnce of uhis strategy.
Japanese Music
Domestic news: Ishikawa Prefoeture-- News of rew pcdus-
tion nethod taken up in Kanazawa City to increase her e xpo ts to
Central and S uth America and to South Africa. News ct teetctel-
ism t. aring fi: it and Kawatani Village becoming one of tie richest
viilages in Jaan/
Toyama Prefecture: News of the ex ibit of ggods produced
in Takaoka boac ng fruit. 5ooo yen orier made by trede bureau.
News cf the neming of war woai ons presented by the wonen's sosiety
held in Toyama city. Nows of the sond ng of comfort bags :10, O0o)
to the soldiers at the front.
Nagano Profecture: News of the return of nurses, who had 
beon serving at tho front. News of vhe honoring of Aroher Yoshida,
who is 85 yocrs of age, in ths city of Matsumoto.
Niigata Preficture:
News of a plan to hold a religion service to thank
God for having protectod its soldiers being planned in Shirokawa
Villiage. Nono of her mon sorving at tho front have heen killed.
Japanose Music

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.97)
Iage#2
Talk by Giichi Okamura, of the editorial department of
Loe News Agency, on welcoming the fourth anniversary of the in-
cident: As a result of the war between Russia and Germany, the
European war has now taken on the aspects of a world war. It
can be safely said that Americe, the only nation that has not yet
enter d thewar in this period of world confusion, is actually
in th war. Especialiy, ascording to a dispatch received yester-
day: Amorican troors reportedly have been landed on Iceland.
This ieportedly has been done on the pretext of guaranteeing the
cecur ng o Ioeland in place ef Engiand. However, actually, it
can be said that America has gone out to secure power ul military
bases ror hersolf and that the democracies taking advantage of
this var setv en Russia and Germany, are trying to .............
Germ .y for her piral e-like acts. Simi ar debcuchement of Ameripa
into the orie Atlantic region can te expected even in the utufe.
Thus, he war vili 'ecome ail the more aggravaped. Howevs.
looking back in tho past, we find that the statesmen and diplomats
o the arious nations assembled tegether and concluded th so-
cali Iurdailles Treaty after t'e end of the firvt werld wer
witi tn) hepe of preventing the occurrence of a similar wa: and
promoting the peace and security of humanity. Howevcr, isn't it
ironical that anternetional peace has nou been rainsainel for even
a quaiter of a century? In a word, the reason that it was useless
is that the viciorious nations or the "have" nations took into
consi eration their own benefit and concluded the treaty; hus.
the irtornati ral peaco ideal was only in name, Tn facs. t cai
be sa i that i' was an international peace only in ideal. The
wars to create a new order, which are beirg conductcd on the east-
ern and weste:: parts cf the world, are wars that are being fought
to correct such dissatisfactory intornational peace idea" and to
establisn an ererlating world peace. coking back irto the past
it can be said that the Manch rian in ident cnd our withdrawal
from the League of Naticns becamo the sigual-fire for today's
world reorganization (?) and that Japan is a natien that has arison
for tho ostablishment of the poaco and security of humanity. With
the wolcoming of tho fourth annivorsary of the Chine incident,
which broko out after the Manchurian incident on Juiy 7th, 1937
at Lukouchiao, a suburb of Peking, tho day before yosterday, we
entered tho iftn yeer of the incident. During this time, Gormany
who had been diligently preparing and struggling under the irra-
tional bonds of the Versaillcs Troaty, rose up in action tcgether
with Italy. Thus, our country concluded a troaty with these two
nations and formod a powerful axis that has nover before been seen
in the history of the world. And it can be said that their pre-
sent stato is that they are cooperating with cach uther cconomic-
ally end are fighting very carefully. We heve now welcomed the
fifth year of the China incident, the war front of which is of
an unprecedented nature oxtending from Urubotsu in Mongolia on
the north to South China and cvon as far as French Indo-China.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
age#3
When this is compared with the Russo-German war front stretching
 n e Baltic to the Black Sea, which reportedly is 2ooo kil.
long, it is claimed that our war front on the continent of China
is twice as long. Recently, the press section of the Imperial
Military headquarters made public the achievements of our troops
for t.e fist half of this year, starting from January and unding
in June. According to it, the numerical strength of the enemy
orposed by our troops was 2 079,000 men, the number of clasaes
was 12,004, the number of enemy ki1led was 191,700 and the number
of en:mies captured was 84,O00, besidew the capture of guns.
and anmunitions, automobiles, armored trains and many other things.
In contrast to this, Japan has lost only J,119 men. Thus, the
ratio of uhe umber of men lost by China and Japan is 7 to 1.
In Ju.er words, while China lost 37 men. Japan only lost one man.
Besiar- this, umerous other achicvem nts cf the Japanese troops
inclu ing the repouued bombing of Chungking by our naval ar forse,
can b. men. onui. However, the China incident is still to be con.
t:nue. So long es Chiang Kai-shek, who has been forced to flee
to un ngkins, continues to oppose Japan with the aid of the third
powers, Japan is determined to carry on the fight, no matter how
many years it vill take. Evor since the reesteblisment o the
Chinece Central Gevernment at Nankirg after the eneny roops hat
beyn viped away by our efficient troops, the government at Nanking
has bee: making a ound progross. With the coming of Vang (hing-
wei to Japan last month, the friendly relations between Jayan and
Nankin  have Leen strengthenod all the more. Furtheimore, the
Europ an natios, including Gornany, Italy, Rumania, Czechoslovakia,
Croatia, Spain, Hungary and Pulgaria, officially re ognized the
Nanking gover  nen on July 1. Adding Japan and Manchoukuo to this
list. the number of antions now reccghizing tho Nanking overn-
ment is ten. Vith Japan's intervonticn in the Frenoh Indo-China
Thailand border dispute, Japar's influence has now spread far to
the south. As a rosult, Japan's plan to create a new crder in
East Asia is gradually materializing. However, wnat is to be re-
gretted is the trade nogotiation with the Dutch East Idies. In
spite of Delegate Yoshizawa's effort to conclude a trade agree-
mont with tho D.E.I., it has ended in a dissatisfaciory result.
The nations that heve obstructed the conclusion of this agrcerient
aro the samo oros that are assisting Chungking, but Japan has not
giver up hopo. She is determined to make these nations unlorstand
Japan's position and accomplish the things that are indespensible
to the races of East Asia. Therefore, the negotiafion for tho
trade agrcernont is still being continued with tho Dutch East Indies,
and I firmly beliove that the D.E.I. will come to recogniao and
agroe with Japan's position. In spite of the four years of tho in-
cident, no sign of disruption has yot been seen in Japan. A war
footing has been established in the political, cconomical and
cultural aspects and the nation is diligently carrying on its
work in unity.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
Page#4
There seems to be propaganda to the effect that Japan is suffering
a hc tage of materials and that the people are experiencing great
hardships being circulated abroad, but that is not true,. Besides,
on locking through the newspapers or America, I find rumors to the
effedt that Japan is trying to break off from the Axis group pub-
lishel on them, but these are mebely propaganda attempting to
alienate the signatory powers of the tripartite agreement. This
is absohutely false, for Japan is a nation of sincerity. In ac-
corlance with her fixed policy, Japan is triving to establish
peace and a new order in East Asia with her own strength. Con-
sequently, I sincerely hope that you, Japanese residents abrcad,
will yerform your duty toward your fatherland within the scope of
your (ccupation without giving heed to these false propaganda with
the cace of mind that everything is alright with your fatherland
and hat your fatherland, Japan, is rliabie.
Jepanese music .......
Military tune.
Reguest for information in regard to the condition cf re-
ception besed on tre new frequency.
Japanese National Anthem.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 7/10/41
Frequency i7795 Kilocycles
(Note: Only last half hour recorded.)
Japanese Music
Talk by Noboru Imao, Yokohama branch manager of Tokyo
Nichi-Nichi, entitled "Returning From America."
Jepanese residents of America, how are you? I cannot say
more than express my hearty ap reciation for your kindness during
my visit there. Through the kindness of the Tokyo Broadcasting
Station, it has become possible for me to talk to you tonight and
I would like to take adventage of this opportunity to express my
thanks. Only e month (may be seven months, for ichi, which means
one, is similer to the sound of shichi, 'which means seven) has
pessed since I bede farewell to you all, but a great change has
taken place in the world situation. Germany and Russia are now
actually at war with each other and America has taken a step forward
tow d participation in the war with her occupation of Iceland.
Consequently, I believe that you all are somewhat worried. How-
ever, since I have clreedy tslked of this thing during my lecture
tour while abroad, I bolieve that there is no need to be surprised.
In as much as America, & nation as large as a mountain and as wide
as a sea, has started moving towerd a certain definite direction,
it is impossible for her to change her course. Consequently, you
must all be prepared beforehand to be able to face the fact thet
Americe will take e step further and finally take part in the Euro-
pean War, both methodically and materially. hen the relations
between Germany and Soviet Russie prior to the war are considered,
it can be seen that they would have to fight &gainst each other
sooner or kter. Thus, tho world, today, is being manipuleted by
the stringw of fate and is fighting, regardless of the welfare of
humanity. Under this world situation, wo Japanese need only cnn-
sider how wo can alweys livo strongly and uprightly. No matter
how upright one may bo he cannot hope to win against one who is
evil and strong. However, if ono is upright and very strong, he
has nothing to fear, no mattor what situation he is confronted with.
This, I think, is the montel ettitude that should not be forgotten
in order to accomplish the greet ideal of tho Japenese race--that
of constructing a ndw order in East Asia and thoroby establishing
a mutuel prosperity sphero in East Asic and, in thc long run, pre-
serving the pecce of humanity. Although it has been stated re-
peatedly, I would like to mention the fect that Jap n is the land
of the Gods and that wo, Japanese, are all children of the Gods.
Thus, there is no reason why Japan, which has been founded by the
wishos of tho Gods and which is acting in. accordance with the order
of the Gods, should not receive the divine protection of tho Gods.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
This is the reason why we can entertain an undescribable peace of
mind. Therefore, no matter how the world situation of America's
movement may change; you Japanese residents of abroad, who are
children ofthe Ccds, need not worry in the least bit. When I re-
turned to Japan after an absence of about five months, I saw Japan
burning with a powerful mental power or devine power--that is,
a powerful spirit capable of overcoming any difficulty. When I
saw this situation, I wes very happy. With this vitality and
spirit, there is nothing that cannot be done. I believe that it
is not a matter of time or how we think, for when we consider
the hardships and difficulties experionced by Emperor Jimmu when
he came down from Heaven some 2,6oo years ago, the test assigned
to us today is nothing. Instead, I think that we should suffer
and be harassed more. This is hecause it is said that the greater
the birth pains, the creater vill be the thing tht will be born.
We should refreshen in our minds the groat spirit of subjugation
(?) of Emperor Jirmu to the very end and carry out the great mis-
sion assigned to the Yamato race with the spirit of the officers
and men, who have been serving in North, Contral and South China
ever since the cutbreak of the incident, as our spirit. Recently
Premier Konoye stated in regard to Japan's attitude to cope with
the complicated and delicate international situation that Japan
will follow the co irse that sho should take. Therefore, all we
need to do is to follow the course that should be taken by Japan,
and Japan should follow the course that should be takon by her
to the vory ond. Japen's move, thus, hes becomo the target of
the attontion of tho world. Consequently, the responsibility of
you, Japanese residents of abroad, is greator than that of the
Japanese rosiding in Jepan. Since cach and evory move of you
will seriously affect the world rclations, to say nothing of tho
Japenese-American relations, I sincerely hope that you will be
more careful of your acts in the futuro.
Japaneso music
Roquest for information on the condifion of tho reception
of the new frequency.
Tomorrow's program.
Themo song.
Japaneso nati nal anthom.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 7/11/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Note: Only lest half hour recorded)
Record startos in the middle of tho commont on current
events:...................... has jumped into the dangerous war
zone of her own accord and with the intention of threatening the
right of existonce of the peoplc of Europe, she has suddenly
startod an attack. However, all of le ros onsibility lios with
President Roosevelt. Thus, with such motive, she is about to make
a serious detormination. (Record indistinct.) Amidst this Russo-
German war in Europe, a new and definite ............. has appeared.
Now, lot us, considor the situation in East Asia, which of great
concern to us. Since it lies within the wostern hemisphere of
President Roosovelt, we can soe America's sinister schome and hand
whatevor dircction we turn. She is trying to desperately to ro-
vive and assist the Chungking government, solidify her Engliah-
American coalition and ................ India and Australia, not
to mention her .............. from Alaska in the Nath to Hawaii
and Philippines in the South. Such is the situation on the west-
ern hemispherc. However, I wonder if tho question as to whethor
Americe's western hemisphere policy will be as fruitful or the
policy of Asia for the Asiatics will be realized or not will be
settled earlier than expected, dopending upon America's attitude
and action. Record very indistinct, leaving mo not alternative
but to translate the comment in a digested form)
Domestic news: (Record very indistinct) Yamaguchi Pre-
fecturo: News of the completion of the undersea tunnel between
Moji end Shimonoseki. News of the construction of a fencing gym
in honor of Musashi Miyamoto, a great Japenese Warrior of old.
Hiroshima Prefecture: News of the plan to constnuct e
harbor at tho mouth of Ota Rivor.
Okayana Profecturo: News of the hoding of a naming cere-
mony of tho airplanes and woepons donated by the pooplo of Okayama
Profecture. News of the poople of Okayame profecture rejoicing
about the promotion of General Doihara, as inspector goneral of
military avietion.
Tottori Prefocture: Nows of the fishermen of Tottori
making great chtches of red snappers daily. News of the opening
of the mountain for the hiking season in Tottori Profecture.
Shimane Profecture: News of tho festival of shrine in
Yamade (?). News of tho discovery of copper and other minerals
in a cortain mountain (Name indistinct. )

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
Page #2
Talk by Yoshinori Miyauchi, head of the harbor commission
of Osaka, on "Osaka Harbor".
The speaker gave the historical development of Osaka
Harbor (created in July, 1868). Primarily used as a port for
domestic trade to date. Is gradually teking on the aspects of
a port for domestic trade to date. Is gradually taking on the
aspects of a port for international trade. With the establish-
ment of a new order in East Asia, Osaka Harbor is destined to
take on greater importance.
Japenese National Anthem
##

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/12/41
Frequency i7795 Kilocycles
(Note: Only last half hour recorded)
Good evening, children of Hawaii. Are you all studying
hard? The children of Tokyo are eagerly looking forward to the
Sunmer vacation and are playing and studying very hard. How are
you going to spend this Summer vacation? As for the children of
Tokyo, the most pleasant thing for them to do during Sunmer is
swimming. All the rivers swelling and flowing near Tokyo, not .
to mention the pools withi Tokyo, will be filled with children,
however, children, whose homes are far way , will return to their
native place with their parents and spend their Summer in the
beloved mountains and rivers of their native place, thus building
up their soul and body. As you all know, four years have passed
since the outbreak of the current incident end when we think of
the soldiers who are fighting on the continent of China, we fool
that it si not justifiable for the children to spend their Summer
in idleness. Consequently, some schools are requiring children
to attend school even during the Summer months not for the purpose
of studying, but to perform radio exercises, visit nearby shrines
and pray for the success of the officers and ren fighting in China.
In regard to the Summer vacation of the children of Emergency
Japan, we will broadcast some cheerful news from time to time.
Now, iet me tell you about the completion of the first undersea
tunnel for trains to be made in the world. If you will see an
atlas of Japan, you will be able to readily find the place. There
is a big island west of Japan Proper called Kyushu. From Moji,
situated at the northern tip of this island, an undersea tunnel
has been constructed to Shimonoseki, a city five kilometers across
the sea on the island of Japan Proper. Furthermore, the comple-
tion ceremony of the great undersea tunnel for train transportation
was held on July 10. The construction of this tunnel was started
five years ago, and the number of mon that worked on this project
was 1,900,00o. Thore is an under-water tunnel under the Hudson
River of A.erica, but above this Kammon Tunnel which was recently
completed in Japan, the rough waves of the sea are surging. Plans
for the construction of undersea tunnels at Dover Strait and Gib-
raltar in Europe were considerod, but no definite action has been
taken to date. The fact that Japan has successfully constructed
this undersea tunnel in spito of the incouveniences caused by tho
war is certeinly pregnant with a great significance. The only
work left is to enlarge the tunnel end aly down tracks. Thorefore
by October of next year, tho first undersea tunnel for train will
meke its appearanco. How wonderful is it that the droam of trains
running under the sea has been realized! As you all know Germany
and Russia, at present, is ongeged in a croat war along the bordor
of Germany end Russian. Hitlor of Germany reportodly has gone to
take charge of the German High Command at the front.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
Page#2
Now, wouldn't it be of interest to you to know what Hitler is do-
ing at the front? Hitler is a very healthy man and reportedly
sleeps only four hours at night and tow hours during the day.
Therefore, he is up and working the rest of the 18 hours. Hitler
does not drink liquor and coffee and also does not smoke tobacco.
He reportedly has a very small meal, consisting of one plate of
vegetables and one cup of fruit juice, at the front. Even his
headquarters at the front is seid to be a meke shift one, the
hour when he is planning a move with his officers with a pencil
in his right hand and a magnifying glass in his left hand and a
map spread before him is said to the ........longest. Besides,
he reportedly wears the same kind of uniform as his soldiers. By
these aspects we can see the greatness of Hitler.
Music
National Anthem (Japanese)

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/13/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Only one record. Time --08o0 to O802,
0802, 0805.5 to 0807, 0827.5 to 0828)
Record starts in the middle of the comment on current
events: As one of Soviet Russia's plan of protracted war, it
is reported that she will transfer her present administration
to the Ural district and the draw the German troops into the in-
terior and molest them with the guerilla tactics of the Chungking
troops. Now, let us consider the opinons of the third powers.
The matter to be considered at this time is the loss of Soviet
Russia's heavy industrial centers and the ............... of her
natural resources. Besides, her tremendous loss of arms and men
during the first phase of the war must be considered. In other
words, the Germen High Command announced on July 10 that the Ger-
man troops had captured over 400,000 Russians, destroyed or cap-
tured 7,615 tanks and armored ...........and destroyed or damaged
6,233 Russian planes. Thus, with the loss of Leningrad and Uk-
rainian districts and the destruction of her fighting power to
such an extent as mentioned above, it is being wondered to what
extent she will be able to carry on the fight. However, the Russo-
German war has still many questions to be answered, such as the
movement of England and America and the activities of the anti-
communist group, but with the above mentioned results of the war
as our foundation , we shall look upon the fighting along the
Stalin line with great concern.
Music
Request of information on the reception condition of the
new frequency.
Japanese National Anthem.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 7/14/41
Frequency i7795 Kilocycles
News:
News f the arrival of Kawabe, commander of a
Japanese detachment in South China, at Haneda Airfield yesterday
afternoon from Shanghai. Stated that Chungking is stiil putting
up a strong opposition, but is no match for the Japanese troops.
Italian Ambassador to Japan .............. called on Di-
rector Katano(?) of the Asia Affairs Bureau of the foreign office
this morning and discussed the European situation.
News of the German-Russian wer. Mentioned German troops
breaking through the Stalin line and advencing l00 kilometers
toward Moscow along the Eastern front. Also reported German troops
making steady progress in the south, making the fall of Kiev im-
minent. Mentioned the desturction of 147 Russian planes on July
12th by the German &ir force at the eastern front, besides the
destruction of 717 tanks, 400 motor lorries and 34 guns in coopera-
tion with the land force. On the other hand, reports from Russia
mentioned no change along the front, although fierce fighting re-
ported along the whole front, and calimed the destruction of 131
German planes on July 12. Description of Leningrad, Kiev and
odessa.
News of the arrival of the evacuees from Moscow at Tokyo
Station today. One of the members, Mrs. Tatekawa, wife'of Ambas -
sador Tatekawa, stated: Since fo d-stuffs were abundant, rationing
of foodstuffs was not in effect yet.
News of the Anglo-Russian military agrcement. Agreement
claimed not be an alliance, but εn association, for the purpose
of carrying on tho war. America reportedly had givon her consent
to the conclusion of the agreement between Russian and England.
News of the opinion voiced in Borlin's diplomatic circle
in regard to tho Anglo-Russian military agreement: Judging from
the current situation, the agreement if of no value.
News of the opinion voiced b." Russia's Director of the
Publicity Bureau in regard to the Anglo-Russian military agreement:
The conclusion of the agreemont is of historical significance in
that it will change the in crnational situation. Two great powers,
Russia and Great Britain, have dedided to assist cach other in
their fight against Germany. America, too, is on tho side of
Englend. In view of our trcaty with Japan, Japan probably will
maintain her position spocified by tho troaty.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of the opinion voiced in the government circles of
Nanking in regard to the Anglo-Russian agreement: In view of
the fact that the nations assisted by England have all been de-
feated, the Anglo-Russian agreement will have no practical value.
It can be said that it will have no effect on the situation in
East Asia, in particular, end will be of no value to the Chung-
king government, too.
News of the completion ceremony of the undersea Kammon
Tunnel. Plan now is to construct an undersea tunnel connecting
Japan Proper with Korea. Preparations are ing made.
News of the completion of the pagado, presented by Mrs.
Saito, wife of the late Ambassador Saito, at Annapolis.
News of a music compiled by the former Fumanian Ambassador
to Japan to be broadcest in the overseas broadcast in commemora-
tion of Rumania's participation in the tripartite agreement.
News of the arrival of Bangkok Maru, of the Osaka Shosen,
in Kobe yesterday from Thailand. Corment of one of the passen-
gers, a nowspaper reporter, was as follows: Nationel movements
have been started everywhere in Thailand. Grammar schools have
the best buildings even in the rural districts. Chinese customs
are being abandoned and Thailand's customs are boing stressed.
News of the announcement of the closing up of the Canton
bank of the American National Benk at the end of this month.
Another American Bank, also, to close at this time. Thus, all
British and American firms are gradually being driven out of
Canton.
News of the Week: News of the celebration held on
July 7th in commomoration of tho fourth anniversary of the inci-
dont.
News of the decision reached by the Government in regard
to next years budget.
News of tho completion ceremony of the Kammon Tunnol.
Music
Kabuki play
Nationel Anthem (Japanose)

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/15/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Comic Talk
News:
According to reports reaching Berlin, the Soviet
Government is urging the representatives of the various nations
in Moscow to leave Moscow. Thus, it is believed that the Soviet
Government, too, will withdraw from Moscow into the interior.
Besides, in view of a report that the Anglo-Russian'military
agreement was concluded at a place away from Moscow, it is be-
lieved that a part of the Soviet Government has already trans-
ferred. The Soviet Government reportedly will be taken to Sverd-
lovsk in the Ural Mountains. Another report has it that the
government may be moved to Novosibirsk in Siberia.
News of the Russo-Cerman war. Judging from the various
reports, the German troops are pursuing the retreating Russian
troops along the road leading to Moscow. According to the mili-
tary experts of Berlin, the blow suffered by the Russian troops
to date is of a fatal nature, so fatal that the Russian troops
will not be able to recover, and the German troops have broken
the Stalin line at various places, as expected. Complete fall
of the Stalin line is expected to take place soon, according to
German military experts. Besides, about 60,O00 German troops and
not less than 2,0o0 tanks are believed to be taking part in the
destruction of the Stalin line. On the other hand, Russia is
claiming that no change has taken place along the whole front and
that the Russian troops are still checking the advance of the
German troops. However, German troops reportedly have advanced
to a stone's throw of Leningrad and Kiev. Thus, their downfall
seems to be imminent. Sin o it is a certainty that Germany will
launch an all out attack against England after the downfall of
Russia; Promier Churchill, according to a Domei dispatch from
London, stated as follows at Hyde Park: During the months of
Autumn and Winter, we will be compelled to endure a greater test.
In London, numerous now defensc facilities are being established.
Although I believo that wo will be able to repulse the German
ettacks, we must be fully equipped with tho necessary defense
facilitics when it is consdered the Germans have the strength
necessary to carry out a fierce attack. The reason why Germany
is not bombing England at present may be that she is proserving
her strenght. At this timo, we should equip oursolves with en
armament as strong as that of the German air force and if it is
oxplained that we aro gradually building up a condition more
favorablo than that of Gormany, can't we carry on the war with a
greater confidence?

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
The conclusion of a military agreement between Russia and
Great Britain was anticipated in our country. Therefore, the news
of the agreement wes received with extreme calmness. However, the
newspapers of Tokyo have editorialized upon this matter in & very
interesting way. Some of the editorials are as follows: Asahi
Shimbun -- Premier Churchill, who had been a rabid anti-communist
for the past twenty four years, has completely changed his atti-
tude and concluded a military agreement with Soviet Russia. This
indicates that the agreement was motivated by a realistic and
sincere demend and that the union is merely a chauvinistic and
............... one. Consequently, it is obvious that there is
nothing dependable (?) in this fusion. Therefore, doubt is already
being cast as to how much aid Soviet Russia will receive from
England. How can it be imagined that Great Britain, who is barely
carrying on the ar with Germany through America's aid, would be
able to assist Russia........... Yomiuri Shimbun -- The group that
directed the diplomatic policy of England until the outbreak of
the current war was the anti-communist group, and that group still
has a strong power. Consequently, it cannot be deiied that that
there is a possibility of England negotiating for peace with Ger-
many for the purpose of overthrowing Russia, if this war should
end in Russia's victory. Nichi-Nichi Shimbun -- Today, through
the activities of the German air force and submarines, a great
blow is being dealt upon the fighting strength of England, and a
similar thing can be said in regard to Soviet's fighting strength.
Thus, it is obvious that even if a military agreement is ∞ncluded
between these two countries, the effect upon the war situation
will be small.
According to a dispatch from Vichy, the Vichy Government
yesterday gavo Goneral Dentz, head of the French Army in Syria,
pormission to sign the armisticc wiht the British force. Ratifica-
tion of the armistice reportedly will be held at Boirut and at
Cairo.
News of tho Japanose troops operation in China: Japanese
troops oporations in Central Hupeh progressing smoothly. Result
of the operation as announced y a communique, is 715 killed,
174 captured, and 785 rifles, 30 howitzers and many ammunitions
taken. Result of the mopping up operation undertaken in the
neighbofhood of Canton-- 900 killed, 42 captured and 546 rifles
13,000 rounds of ammunitions, 6,500 tons of gasolinc and many more
weapons taken. (Much static -- record indistinct)
Premier Konoye today called on the Emperor at tho Hayama
Summer palace and discussed important matters.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
General Yamashita, head of the military delegation, which
visited German y and Italy, today, conferred with Premier Konoye
and other members of the cabinet and reported the result of his
mission to Germany and Italy.
News about Premier Konoye's radio talk on July 1 deep ly
impressin the nation and request that Premier Konoye talk again
on August 1 pouring in at the office of the National Support So-
ciety. (Note: The first of each month has been set aside by the
government as a national service day called East Asia Reconstruc-
tion Movement Day.)
News about the sele of Hokoku Saiken Ypatriotic bonds)
being made today throughout Japan. Bonds completely sold out at
various phces by noon.
News about the Nanking Government (Record very indistinct
due to static) Judging from the words heard from time to time,
the news seems to be about the strengthening of collaboration be-
tween Nanking and Japan.
News of the Italian Ambassador to Nanking. To present his
credentiels to Jang Ching-wei on July 18.
News of the distressing condition of the Chungking Govern-
ment. City completely destroyed by Japanese air force. Prices
of goods rising due to shortage.
Comments on Current Events:
Topic--Agreement between England and Chungking and
England and Soviet Russia Breaking up its dead-locked condition
of several days duration, the Russo-German war has suddenly become
animated again with the starting of the German troops drive amd
the German troops, according to a Berlin broadcest, have crossed
the Stalin line with an irresistable force. As a result, Lenin-
grad and Kievo aro being threatoned and the German troops west
of Minsk are making a steady progress as though thoy are going to
reach Moscow in a day. With the announcement that Germany had
completed its poworful attacking array, Soviet Russia, too, an-
nounced that her dcfense array had bedn completed and this even
appeared in Soviot Russia's diplomatic activity as the cnnclusion
of the Anglo-Sovict military alliance. Vith the weakening of her
strength, Groat Britain started to work upon Soviet Russia, but
had failed. However, with the outbreak of the Russo-Gorman war,
the relations botween Soviet Pussia and Great Britain gradually
became close, finally resulting in tho c nclusion of the military
agroement. It had been anticipated that Soviot Russia and England
would conclude an agreement to fight ageinst Germany.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Page4
In fact, its possibility was great, in view of the fact that Ger-
many was fighting against both Great Britain and Russia and that
the defeat of England and Russia was irminent. Thus, it made
possible the c onclusion of the military agreement. Conse.gently
the text of the agreement is that each nation give each other
whatever aid possible and that either one shell not go so far as
to negotiate for peace with Germany without the consent of the
other. However, it can be readily seen that this agreement will
be nothing more than a spiritual agreement encouraging each other
to do her best and will not benefit their military strength in the
least. Instead, the Russo-German military agreement will stimu-
late Germany's fighting power all the more. However, it can be
seen through this war between Russia and Germany that Great Bri-
tain, as usual, is trying to rule the world end is again stretch-
ing her fearful agcressive hands to sacrifice the races of the
world for her own benefit. That is, throughthis outbreak of war
between Russia and Germany it can be seen that Great Britain,
taking advantage of the situation, is trying to maintain her im-
perialistic policy, which aims for the preservation of her old
status of ruling the world, with a new characteristic. This new
characteristic is that in view or the fact that it has become im-
possible for Grect Britain to maintain the old order by herself,
she is strengthening herself with America's aid and influence.
And this is appesrin: in various fcrms in East Asia and in Europe.
In other words, in East Asia, Great Britain is strengthening her
connections with Chiang Kai-shek and is planning to utilize Chiang
to the very end. It is reported that this will be manifested as
a military agreement with Chiang Kai-shek sometime this month.
In this event, it is only proper to expect that America will be
includod in this new plan of Greet Britein, hat is Great Britain
planning to do by aiding Chiang's rogine, which is about to fall?
Although it is very clear, it probably will be as follows: Great
Britain will conclude a : ilitary agrcoment vith Chiang Kai-shek,
station the troops under the control of the Chungking government
in Burma and place them under the control of the British Far East-
ern Command, together with tho Australian and British troops.
This reportodly is one of the stipulations of tho agreement, and
it means nothing other than tho fact that Great Britain is going
to oponly use the Chungking troops for the defonse of Burma,
which is one of her possessions, and ........... in the strength-
ning of the defense at Singapore end Malay. Just as she did
in using the Greek troops as ............... in the Balkans,
Great Britain's intention is to use the Chungking's troops for
the protection of possessions snd interests in Southeastern Asia.
Besides, without considering the welfare (?) of the people of
China, Chiang Kai-shek is about to give up the people of China
as England's ,.....
..... This can be expectod of Great Britain
whose intention is to utilize the greatly cmbarrassod Chiang's
rogimo

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
Having lost ........
........ on the continent of China, Great Bri-
tain is now trying to check Japan through her aid to Chang Kai-
shek. Thus, Greet Britain is revealing of her own accord her
attempt to preserve her possessions in Southeastern Asia at all
cost, even with the aid of the Chungking troops. In as much as
the plan entertained by Great Britain is as clear as this, it is
needless to mention that there is no need to be surprised even if
a military agreement is concluded between Greet Britain and Chung-
king and even if America is induced to assist Chiang and to take
part in the British-Chiang Kai-shek military agreement in some
form. It is clear that this joint collaboration between Great
Britain and America and Chungking is based upon the two-fold plan
(?) of enveloping Japan and of spreading Chiang Kai-shek's anti-
Japanese war toward the south. In spite of this, Japan, although
very fully prepared within, is trying to make a peaceful southward
move, and Japan's southward move inevitably will be strengthened
and enlarged in the future. Besides; even the alliance between
Chungking and Great Britain--that is, the joint scheme of Great
Britain, America and Chungking--cannot change it, for Japan's
peacefui southward move vwill be carried out with the backing of
the whole nation and also is based on the historical requirement
that it must be accomplished for the mutual existence and prosperi-
ty of the races of Eest Asia. Besides, this thing shows that
Japan's mission is absolutely legitimate and is capable of over-
coming any difficulty. Great Britain, accompanied by America,
hes thus undertaken an evil plan against the nevw order in East
Asia. Since this (new order) is the desire of Japan's legitimate
claim, the execution of this unscrupulous act is very dangerous.
Yet, England is daring to do it--this in spite of the fact that
her footing has become very dangerous with the races of East Asia
about to rise against her. Furthermore, England is not only at-
tempting to do this in East Asia, but aiso in Europe. One of the
things manifesting this is the Anglo-Russian military agreement.
England's greatest enemy is Germany and it is only proper for her
to hate Nazism. In the degree or to a greater degrce, Soviet
Russia's Bolshevism or Communism is England's most serious and
powerful enemy. Consequently, in the current war, England does
not want to soe Gernany win, of course, but also does not want
to see Russia win. The reason is that if Soviet Russia should
win, the activities of comintern will neturally sp"ead throughout
Europe. Therefore, the sinister dosign behind the conclusion of
the Anglo-Russian military agreerent is that Eng and wants to pro-
long the war between Russia and Germany, who are her greatest en- 
emies, to make them both exhaust themselves and destroy each other,
after which she could leisurely realize her ambition of world
supremacy. This can be said to a great feat disconnected from
reality. Since there w s a great opposition to the rapprochement
of England and Soviet Russia among the upper classes of England,
it is only proper to considor that it si still in oxistence.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6
Consequently, as have been shown in the diplomatic history of Eu-
rope, it is a certainty, attested to by history, that the new
relations between Soviet Russia and England wili not be a lasting
one. In contrast to this, see how strongly the union among Japan,
Manchoukuo and China, is being maintained in East Asia. Instead
of the friends todya and enemies tomorrow situation of Europe, the
union in East Asia is being maintained strongly in East Asia.
Great Britain, who has been..............., has again come forward
with the ambition of world supremacy and this time accompanied by
America's influence. As I have statec : ometime ago, it should not
be overlooked that America which is an anti-war nation, is gradu-
ally becoming ............. and teking on a war footing (?).
I would like to say that the new trend which is trifling with the
relations between Soviet Russia and Grect Britain, America and
Soviet Russia and Great Britain and America, is making the inter-
national situation all the more complicated with the relations
between the master and his subject becoming tangled (?). However,
if the various complicated problems should ever be swayed by the
power of rality, the situation will become extremely simple and
clear and an unshakagle foundation for the creation of a new order
will be established.
Talk "Scenes on the Ccntinent (China)" by Aritsune Sugi-
moto, a reporter of Domei News Agency: Talked on the condition
in Canton, how peace and order has been restored, how it had
contributed toward the crection of Nanking Government, how Japa-
nese firms are mainteining the communication line in Canton, and
how the Japanese troops ere helping in the development of the in-
dustries in Cinton and in the strengthening of the Government.
Tomorrow's program
Japanese National Anthem.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.93)
CR
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Fo
Federal Burean of Iuvestigation
Dirision of
π
Washington, D. L.
AUG 20 1941
Department of State
REOEIVED
AUG 1 9 1941
PERSONAL AND
UNICATIONS AND REUS
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
AUG 1 61941
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/45
interest, I am transmitting herewith translated
transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan,
for the period July 16, 1941 through July 23, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
. Es. &soover
Enclosures
CORRELA
1941
AUG 1 6 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
45
PS/AC
Jastue Department Gurderimes, 1-2.1984
R14
5.16.1984

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/16/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
News:
General Seishiro Itagaki, who has been appointed as
commander of the Korean force, vestereay returned on board .....
Maru and stated that the great project of Japan in East Asia is
gradually being reclized in a press interview at Koshien Hotel.
Vice-Admiral Terumi Shimizu, who, prior to his assignment
to the Naval General Staff Office, was the cormandant of the
Japanese fleet in North China, today called on the Emperor at
Hayama Sunmer pelace.
General Hayo (?) Tada, who has been appointed as a member
of the supreme war council, today left Peking to return to Japan.
Ambassador Honda, who has been discussing the matter of
strengthening the collaboration between Japan and China, today
left Tokyo for Nanking.
Special plane to take Japanese delegation to Thailand to 
settle the boundary between Thailand and French Indo-China. Yano,
former Japanese minister to French Indo-China, to head delegation.
Plane to leave Yokohana and head for Kansui and then direct to
Thailand.
News of Makoto Yano to go to Darandan (?) region to make
a survey.
News of the arrival of 358 Germen women and children from
Dutch East Indies at Kobe yesterday.
Book "Yoake Mae (Before Dawn)", written by Toson Shima-
zaki, to he translatcd into Chinese to enable the Chinese to study
Japan. Story about the Meiji Era, describing the breaking of dawn
for Progrossi ve Japan.
News of the pitiful condition in Chungking caused by the
repeated bombing of te city by the Japanese naval air force, as
related by a Chinese, who had mado good his excape to Shanghai
from Chungking. Claimed the Chungking report that only 7o0 suf-
focated to death duo to defect in the bomb-proff shelter as false.
Actually 13,677 were killed. Government being severely criticized
by the people. Prices of food-stuffs very high. In view of the
condition, people arc criticizing governmont and claiming ""hat
will America's aid do for us?"

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
Page#2
The Soviet Government reported has started to evacuate
Moscow due to the intensification of German attack. Report de-
nied by Soviet Government. However, according to a Vashington
dispatch from a reliable source, the Soviet Government has al-
ready started its evacuation. All, except the foreign office,
to evacuate to a point 8oo Kilometers east of Moscow.
Furious fighting has again been started along the German
Russian front, but due to the great difference in the reports from
Germany and Russis, nothing definite can be said. However, Ger-
man reports claim that German troops are making steedy progress
and have achieved great results in the regions of Kiev and .....
On the other hand, Russia reports claim that Russians launched
a furious counter-attack and drove back the German troops over
30 kilometers back at Kiev and ............ Judging from the
reports received, German troops appear to have marched to a point
160 kilometers away from Leningrad in the north, making the posi-
tion of Leningrad very perilous, while the Finnish troops report-
edly have annihilated two Russian infantry divisions. At the
central front, German troops reportedly have broken through the
Stalin line. In tho region around Kieve, German troops encount-
ered a furious counter-attack of the Fussian troops, but success-
fully repulsed it. Another report claims that German troops have
entered the city of Kiev and at present are conducting street
fighting. German air force reportedly ccnducted a devastating
air raid on July 15 and destroyed the railway line between Smol-
lensk (?) and Moscow, according to a report. On the other hand
a report issued by the Russina High Conmand claims that furious
fighting took place along tho northern front on July 15, with
both sides suffering considerable casualties. Besides, the Rus-
sian air forco on July 15 raided cnemy positinns in Rumania and
on July 14 shot doim 52 German planes, while losing only 22 planes
of thoir own.
According to a dispatch from Rome, Italian troops have
crossed the border into Goraeny end are no their way to the front.
Besides, Spanish volunteor troops, too, aro reportedly heading
for the front. Composed of the blue end red shirt troops. General
Timothy Grande (?) head of tho Spanish volunteor troops, reportedly
has already reached Berlin.
According to a conmunique issued by the German High Com-
mand, the German air force on the night of July 14 raided England
and also destroyed & British ship at St. George Strait, while in
North Africa a squadron of Gorman planos raided British position
at Tobruk and sank two British ships and demaged two other Bri-
tish ships at Suez on July 14.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
According to & communique issued by the Italian High
Command, the Italian air force raided British air fields and
facilities on North Africa on July 14.
According to the British Admiralty, Britain and her
allies lost 77 ships, totalling 329,296 tons, during the month
of June, bringing the total lost ever since the outbreak of the
war to 1,738 ships, totalling 7,118,122 tons. Besides, the
British Admiralty announced that no εnnouncement of loss of ship
will be made in the future, since such announcements have led to
the revealing of valuable information.
In regard to the signing of armistice in Syria, the Ger-
man government made public m official announcement, but a spokes-
man of the foreign office stated that this does not mean that the
French regulars are not powerful, but will make use of such ex-
perience in the future, perhaps through the aid of Gernany.
According to a ashington dispatch published by an influen-
tial newspaper of Sweden, President Roosevelt is planning (?) to
place Americ a in a state of war against Gerrany as early as possible
before Germany makes any decisive gain in her war with Russia and
has ordered American wers" ips and planes to fire against German
warships and submarines wherever and when ever found. In regard
to this, Germany is considering that America has made known her
intention to fight against her.
Comments on Current Events:
An explanetion of the various editorials pertaining
to the Anglo-Tussian military agreement published by the various
newspapers of Tokyo: The various newspapers of Tokyo editorial-
ized on the Anglo-Russian military agreement as follows: Con-
clusion of the agreement bstvon Great Britain and Russia, as seen
from its effect, is an agreement to cooperate with each other in
this war against Germany. That is interesting at this time is
the developments that led both netions to conclude this agreement.
With the outbreek of the war, England end Americe inmediately
announced their aid toward Russia and in spite of their unsightly
coquetry, Soviet Russia assumed a somewhat frenk attitude and did
not rospond imnediately to their offer. However, with the deve-
lopment of the war unfavorably toward Russia, negotiation was
started between Russia and England, resulting in the conclusion
of the agreement of July 12." After having fought against Ger-
many in various regions, England is now facing complete destruc-
tion. On the othor hand, although Germany has continued the
war for the same number of months, sho has incroased her fighting
power and is carrying on the war with caso. In other words, the
outbreak of war betwoen Russia and Germany wes a godsend to Eng-
land, which is facing complete defeat, and America, which has the

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
greatest (?) chance to stop Germany and rule the world. Thus,
England found an ally. This was the true feeling of England and
America. Consequently, they lequidated the feeling they had for
Russia and made their shameful announcement to aid Russia. Now,
let us consider what Tussia's attitude was. When the war with
Germeny broke out, the Soviet Government, confident of being able
to stand up against Germany, seriously studied the coquetry of
England and Americe, who had opposed her for a number of years.
This is the reason why Soviet Russia nade no attempt to accept
in spite of the fact that England and America had expressed their
desire to help. However, on fighting against Gernany, she found
out Germany's stren th to be very powerful and her troops began
suffering defeat at various places, Thus, with her Stalin Line
being threctened, Soviet Russia began to worry. The situation
had become very unfavorable to her. Being driven into this dis-
tressing position, she for the first tire realized the necessity
of England and America's aid. In regard to this, the Asahi Shim-
bun stated, "The Anglo-Russian military agreement was concluded
for this reason. In other words, the agreement was concluded
because the realistic, imperialistic εnd selfish point of view
of both England and Russia, facing complete destruction, coin-
cided." The Anglo-Russian military agreement, concluded for such
reeson, inevitably contains many inconsistencies and the Yomiuri
Shimbun has pointed out these inconsistencies as follwos: "The
English inconsistency is the existence of anti-Soviet clique in
England. As you all know, it was this anti-Soviet clique that
controlled England's diplomatic policy up till the cutbreak of
the current war. This cligue still has a great influence and
should Soviet Russia becone the direct diplomatic object, this
clique inevitably ill exert its power. It cannot be denied that
there is a great possibility of England seeking peece with Germany
for tho purpose of overthrowing the Soviet Ru sia. On June 22
when Russo-German war broke out, Premier Churchill repeatedly
broadcast thet England had no intention to conclude peace with
Germany, but this unnouncement wes made to guard against the strong
peace movement that had broke out in England." In other words,
throught tho conclusion of the Anglo-Russian agreement, England
would have to lower the anti-Soviet bannor, which she had flutter-
ing for a long tine. In order to do this, sho must hold in check
the anti-Soviet clique, which hclds & strong influence. Horin
lies England's curront inconsistency. Furthermore, the Yomiuri
Shimbun continued, "The same can be said of America. How strong
her enmity toward Germany is can be seon clearly by her occupation
of Iceland, but America's intention is to mako England continue
her fight against Gormany and thus acquier the supremacy of the
world." In other words, in consideration of her opposition again-
st communism εnd her self aim to acquire the supremacy of the
world, America is regarding Sovie t Russia as her enemy, too.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
Page#5
Therefore, in order to give aid to Soviet Russia, she, willingly
or unwillingly, must check her public sentiment and even bend her
selfish aim for the present. America's aid to Soviet Russia,
thus, must over this great obstacle. Herein lies her inconsist-
ency: This is the claim of the Yomiuri Shimbun. On the other
hend, let us consider Soviet Russia. In regard to Soviet Russia
the Asahi Shimbun commented, as follows: "Soviet Russia has
tried every means to bolshevize the world, and she has hated
America and England just as much as England and America had hated
her. Immediately after the outbreak of war with Germany, England
sent missions to Soviet Russia to form an alliance with Russia for
the purpose of forming and anti-German bbc. However, Russia re-
jected these proposals and took on a policy of rapprochement to-
ward Germeny, instead. Yet, leaving aside their past principles
and claims, they have come to reach an agreement in that their
mutual enemy is Germany. Furthermore, their territory is about
to trampled by Germant, their mutual enemy. By this, it can be
seen how distressing the state of England and Russia is and how
utilitarianistic their agreement is. On July 9, the Soviet Govern-
ment made Foreign Minister Litvinov broadcast the necessity of
Anglo-Russian collaboration in English. The gist of the talk
was in view of the fact that Germany, who is the mutual enemy of
Russia and England, has her troops concentrated along the eastern
front, this is the t ino England should accomplish her all out war
against Germany and should destroy the German military establish-
meats and harbor facilities in the west, that this is the time
for England to show her sincerity of aid toward Soviet Russia
and that she ought to know that the fate of Soviet Russia is the
fate of England at the same time. This cen be surmised as Soviot's
complaint against England's attempt to negotiate peace with Ger-
many and her ineffectivo move ageinst Germany. At the same time
it can be taken as rovealing how unreliable England is, in the eyes
of Russia." This is thc oditorial of Asahi Shimbun. After con-
sidering it in this mannor, wo can see that great inconsistoncies
lio in the realations between England and Soviet Russia and in
America's aid to Russia and it can be said that they are about
to topplo from its foundation. (Rocord indistinct) It can be
said, I think, that an unnatural alliance is worth nothing, but
let us consider its actuel effoct. In regard to this, the Nichi-
Nichi Shimbun stated, "Duo to her three yoars of war, England
has complotoly lost hor fighting power, and it is an undeniable
fact that sho is carryine on the war solely through America's aid.
To what an extcnt can England in such a stato givo aid to Sovict
Russiao This noed not bo oxplained. Besidos, to what extent
would she bo abl to assist, when she has not onough ships to oven
bring in her materials and hor routes are complotoly closed up by
Cermany? This too, is plain. Therefore, England's aid to Russia
will not be moro than spiritual." Thus, all the editorials of
the nowspapers, as wo havo seen, heve indicated that the Anglo-
Russian military allianco has no value, but lot us consider its
effect on tho Far East.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6
In regard to this, the Hochi Chimbun stated, "Russia's conclusion
of an alliance with England, even if it were for her war against
Germeny, seems to have cast a speck of dark clouds in the rela-
tions between Russia and Japan centering around East Asia", and
emphasized the necessity of watching future developments. Besides,
the Asahi Shimbun stated, "Our country should pay strict attention
to the developments of the anglo-Russian collaboration." This
statement is pregnant with a strong opinion to the effect that
Japen should thwart England's sinister plan and drive out communism
in order to establish her East Asia mutual prosperity sphere and,
at the same time, represents the attitude to be taken by Japan to
cope with the strom-like international situation. It also is a
statement making known to the world that Japan will maintain its
great principle of universal concordia and will watch with grave
concern any third power's attempt to obstruct this.
Domestic News (Shikoku):
Tokushima Frefecture: News of fishing being very
good in the rivers of the said prefecture.
Kagawa Prefecture: News of great harvest of p tatoes.
Kochi Prefecture: News of great production of first
grade tea.
Ehime Prefecture: News of completion of a railway tunnel.
News of the selection of a certain shrine as a national treasure.
News of formation of a central youth's organization, controlling
the various youths organizing within the prefecture. Movement
sponsored by local chapter of the National Support Society.
Talk "A talk to overseas Japanese residents" by Hidejiro
Nagata, member of the House of Peers: (Record not very distinct.
Talk to be digested). Last July 7th was exactly the fourth anni-
versary of the China incident. It is the desire of Japan to settle
this incident locally (as a problem of East Asia.) However, the
incident has been aggravated gr tly with the result that Japan
has been forced to stretch her hands as far south as French Indo-
China. As you all know, Chiang Kai-shek is still continuing his
histilitios, but this need not be heeded, for the Nanking Govern-
ment, led by Wang Ching-wei, is making a sound progress. Besides,
the reations between the Nanking Government and Japan hes been
greatly strengthened. Today, the Nanking Government hes been
given recognition by eight European nations, including Germany and
Italy. The reconstruction of East Asia is a great project, but
its first stage has been accomplished. (Record very indistinct.)

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 7
No matter how long the war continues, Japan's supplies will never
be exhausted, although control of food-stuffs is being enforced
at home. You Japanese residents abroad, may think that there is
a great shortage of food-stuffs in Japan, but this is not so.
(Indistinct) The war between Germany and Russia is of great con-
cern of Japan, for if America should enter the war, Japan must be
prepared to enter the war too, on the side of Germany. Thus,
Japan is watching with great concern the developments of the wer.
hen the League of Nations refused to recognize Manchoukuo as
an independent nation, didn't Japan withdraw from the League?
Such is the determination of Japan. She is deternined to create
a new order in East Asia, regaräless of any attempt of the thire
power's to obstruct her. If this cannot be dono peacefully,
Japan has no alternative, but to take the alternative, but to
take the last resort (?). (Record very indistinct.) Although
it is being thought that Japan hes weakened considerably, it is
not so, for Japan is watching with greet concern the developments
of the Russo-German var and America's move. Possessing much in
reserve, she is maintaining a powerful silence. Our belief is
that Heaven helps those who heip themselves. Overseas Japanese
residents, please do not worry, but look at Japan with a correct
knowledge. (Talk would have been very interesting if record had
been clear.)
Japanese National Anthem

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
ation JLU4 Program
bate 7/17/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Radio Drama.
Ghost Talk
News:
To strengthen the national structure all the more,
the Konoye cabinet resigned enbloc, in view of the new situation
brought about by the Russo-German war.
Due to the resignation of the Konoye cabinet, a meeting
of former premers and members of the Privy Council was held this
afternoon to select the next premier. Meeting was called by Mini-
ster of Home Affairs Kido, in accordance with the wishes of the
Emperor. Meeting attended by Wakatsuki, Hirota, Okada, Hayashi,
Abe, Yonai and others.
News of Erperor's return to Tokyo due to the resignation
of the Konoye cabinet.
Late news--Premier Konoye was requested by phone to come
to the palace by the Emporor at 4 p.m. today.
News of the achievements of the Konoye cabinet.
(New York)--The newspapers of America all played up the
resignation of the onoye cebinet as the news next in importance
to the Russo-German war, but thus far no newspaper has editorial-
ized on it.
(Washington)--Streesing the fortification of Guam, Secre-
tary of Navy nox stated as follows: The navy has not received
the approval of Congress for the fortification of Cuam as yet,
but in view of the present international situation, the fortifi-
cation of Guam is absolutely important. If Guam should be forti-
fied, the position of the American navy in the Pacific will become
... in the event of an emergency. The naval base in
Hawaii is the strongest in the world.
(Los Angeles)--The Fourteenth Naval District announced
that the navy will use Midway from August 1 and Johnson and Pal-
myra Islands from August 15 as her air bases.
(Note: The above two reports were given as indicating
America's enmity toward Japan.)

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
(Vashington)--A bill empowering the president to confis-
cate all private property, deemed necessary for national defense
purpose, was introduced in the Senate military affair committee
on July 16.
(Washington)--America reportedly has started negotiations
with Argentine to purchase war materials from the latter. Ameri-
ca's plan is purchase 500,000,000 worth of war materials annually
from the South American nations, and it is believed that America
in her negotiation with Argentina, is requesting the latter not
to send any war materials produced by the latter to any place out-
side of the western hemisphere. Americe reportedly is planning
to complete similar agreements with the other South American na-
tions.
(Washingtcn)--The Department of State announced that an
agreement to send military advisors to Cdsta Rica, a republic in
Central America, vas concluded on July 14. The agreement was
signed by Under Secretary of State Jelles and Costa Rica's Mini-
ster to America Fernando (phonetic) and will be effective for
four yeers. The agreement also stipulates that further aid will
be given, if Costa Rica desires. Besides, America reportedly has
already concluded similar agreements will all other Latin American
nations.
(Manila)--The American navy announced that mines will be
laid at the entrance of fanila Bay and thet the departure and en-
trance of ships will be restricted. According to the announce-
ment, the departure and entrance of ships will be permitted only
during daylight hours and all private crafts will be restricted
from entering the United States naval area in Subic Bay.
(Note: The above reports were given as signs of America
preparing to enter the war.)
(Berlin)--DNB report from the front claims that German
troops have crossed the Stalin line and are now 170 miles from
Moscow.
(Berlin)--The r eport of a Swedish newspaper that Presi-
dent Roosevelt has ordered the American navy to fire on German
warships and planes is causing a great sensation. The newspapers
in Berlin editorialized on the matter as follows: It has become
clear that President Rooscvelt has the intention to bring about
a state of war with Germany. President Roosevelt is scheming
to place America in a position to be attacked end in the event
his provocativo scheme fails, ho is aiming to place the blame
on tho British navy.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
News of the Japanese troops operation in China: Japanese
naval air force raided Rukako, in the northwestern region of
Hupeh, yesterday afternoon and destroyed the enemy establishments.
General Seishiro Itagaki, former commander of the Koreen
force, who returned yesterday, called on Minister of War, Tojo
this morning and made his report. He εlso called Chief of General
Staff Sugiyama and Inspector-General of Military Education Yamada.
News of the women instructors of Kokumin Gakko, whose
husbands had died at the front, visiting Yasukuni Shrine.
Shinrakuka, a Chinese who hed been spreading anti-Japanese
ideas among the people, was assassinated on July 15 at IlA. The
culprit has not been arrested yet.
Comments on Current Events:
To talk on the close relationship between Japan and
China and the sound development of the Nanking Government:
(Practically the same old tripe repeated from time to time pre-
viously. Restoration of peace and order, strengthening of col-
laboration between Japan and Nanking, and so forth. Colsed with
the statement that attempt of England and America to stop the
creation of & new order in East Asia through the Chungking govern-
ment will be of no use, for it will only stimulate the determina-
tion of Nanking and Japan to create a new order.)
Japanese Iusic
Theme Song

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/16/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
News:
General Seishiro Itagaki, who has been appointed as
commander of the Korean force, vestereay returned on board .....
Maru and stated that the great project of Japan in East Asia is
gradually being realized in a press interview at Koshien Hotel.
Vice-Admiral Terumi Shimizu, who, prior to his assignment
to the Naval General Staff Office, was the commandant of the
Japanese fleet in North China, today called on the Emperor at
Hayama Summer pelace.
General Hayo (?) Tada, who has been appointed as a member
of the supreme war council, today left Peking to return to Japan.
Ambassador Honda, who has been discussing the matter of
strengthening the collaboration between Japan and China, today
left Tokyo for Nanking.
Special plane to take Japanese delegation to Thailand to 
settle the boundary between Thailend and French Indo-China. Yano,
former Japanese minister to French Indo-China, to head delegation.
Plane to leave Yokohama and head for Kansui and then direct to
Thailand.
News of Makoto Yano to go to Darandan (?) region to make
a survey.
News of the arrival of 358 German women and children from
Dutch East Indies at Kobe yesterday.
Book "Yoake Mae (Before Dawn)", written by Toson Shima-
zaki, to be translated into Chinose to enable the Chinese to study
Japan. Story about the Meiji Era, describing the breaking of dawn
for Progrossi ve Japan.
News of the pitiful condition in Chungking caused by the
repeated bombing of te city by the Japanese naval air force, as
related by a Chinese, who had mado good his escape to Shanghai
from Chungking. Claimed the Chungking report that only 7o0 suf-
focated to death duc to defect in the bomb-proff-shelter as false.
Actually 13,677 were killed. Government being severely criticized
by the people. Prices of food-stuffs very high. In view of the
condition, people aro criticizing governmont and claiming "What
will America's aid do for us?"

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
The Soviet Government reported hes started to evacuate
Moscow due to the intensification of German attack. Report de-
nied by Soviet Government. However, according to a Vashington
dispatch from a reliable source, the Soviet Government has al-
ready started its evacuation. All, except the foreign office,
to evacuate to a point 8oo Kilometers east of Moscow.
Furious fighting has again beon started slong the German
Russian front, but due to the great difference in the reports from
Germany and Russis, nothing definite can be said. However, Ger-
men reports claim that German troops are making steady progress
and have achieved great results in tle regions of Kiev and .....
On the other hand, Russia roports claim that Russians launched
a furious counter-attack and drove back the German troops over
30 kilometers back at Kiev and ............ Judging from the
reports received, Cerman troops appear to have marched to a point
160 kilometers away from Leningrad in the north, making the posi-
tion of Leningrad very perilous, while the Finnish troops report-
edly have annihilated two Russian infantry divisions. At the
central front, Germen troops reportedly have broken through the
Stalin line.  In tho region around Kieve, German troops encount-
ered a furious counter-attack of the Fussian troops, but success-
fully repulsed it. Another report claims that German troops have
entered the city of Kiev and at present are conducting street
fighting. German air force reportedly conducted a devastating
air raid on July 15 and destroyed the railway line between Smol-
lensk (?) and Moscow, according to a report. On the other hand
a report issued by the Russina High Conmand claims the t furious
fighting took place along tho northern front on July 15, with
both sides suffering considerable casualties. Besides, the Rus-
sian air force on July 15 reided onemy positinns in Rumania and
on July 14 shot doim 52 German planes, while losing only 22 planes
of thoir own.
According to a dispatch fron Rore, Italian troops have
crossed the border into Cormeny &nd are no their way to the front.
Besides, Spanish volunteer troops, too, are reportedly heading
for the front. Composed of the blue end red shirt troops. General
Timothy Grande (?) head of tho Spanish volunteor troops, reportedly
has already reached Berlin.
According to a conmunique issued by the German High Com-
mand, the Germen air force on the night of July 14 raided England
and also destroyed & Sritish ship at St. CGeorge Strait, while in
North Africa a squadron of Gorman planos raided British position
at Tobruk and sank two British ships and demaged two other Bri-
tish ships at Sucz on July 14.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
According to a communique issued by the Italian High
Command, the Italian air force raided British air fields and
facilities on North Africa on July 14.
According to the British Admiralty, Britain and her
allies lost 77 ships, totalling 329,296 tons, during the month
of June, bringing the total lost ever since the outbreak of the
war to 1,738 ships, totalling 7,118,122 tons. Besides, the
British Admiralty announced that no ennouncement of loss of ship
will be made in the future, since such announcements have led to
the revealing of valuable information.
In regard to the signing of armistice in Syria, the Ger-
man government made public o official announcement, but a spokes-
man of the foreign office stated that this does not mean that the
French regulars are not powerful, but will make use of such ex-
perience in the future, perhaps throuch the aid of Gernany.
According to a Washington dispatch published by an influen-
tial newspaper of Sweden, President Roosevelt is planning (?) to
place America in a state of war against Gerrany as early as possible
before Gernany makes any decisive gain in her war with Russia and
has ordered American wers"ips and plenes to fire against German
warships and submarines wherever and when ever found. In regard
to this, Germany is considering that America has made known her
intention to fight against her.
Comments on Current Events:
An explanation of the various editorials pertaining
to the Anglo-Tussian military agreement published by the various
newspapers of Tokyo: The various newspapers of Tokyo editorial-
ized on the Anglc-Russian military agreement as follows: Con-
clusion of the agreement btvoon Great Britain and Russia, as seen
from its effect, is an agreement to cooperate with each other in
this war against Germany. hat is interesting at this time is
the developments that led both nations to conclude this agreement.
With the outbreak of the war, England end America inmediately
announced their aid toward Russia and in spite of their unsightly
coquetry, Soviet Russia assumed a somewhat frank attitude and did
not respond imrnediately to their offer. However, with the deve-
lopment of the war unfavorably toward Russia, negotiation was
started between Russia and England, resulting in the conclusion
of the agreement of July 12." After having fought against Ger-
many in various regions, England is now facing complete destruc-
tion. On the othor hand, although Germany has continued the
war for the same number of months, she has incrcased her fighting
power and is carrying on the war with case. In other words, the
outbreak of war betwoen Russia and Germany wes a godsend to Eng-
land, which is facing complete defeat, and America, which has the

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
greatest (?) chence to stop Germany and rule the world. Thus,
England found an ally. This was the true feeling of England and
America. Consequently, they lequidated the feeling they had for
Russia and made their shameful announcement to aid Russia. Now,
let us consider what Tussia's attitude was. When the war with
Germany broke out, the Soviet Government, confident of being able
to stand up against Germany, seriously studied the coquetry of
England and Americe, who had opposed her for a number of years.
This is the resson why Soviet Russia nade no attempt to accept
in spite of the fact that England and America had expressed their
desire to help. However, on fighting against Germany, she found
out Germany's stren th to be very powerful and her troons began
suffering defeat at various places, Thus, with her Stalin Line
being threatened, Soviet Russia began to worry. The situation
had become very unfavorable to her. Being driven into this dis-
tressing position, she for the first tire realized the necessity
of England εnd America's aid. In regard to this, the Asahi Shim-
bun stated, "The Anglo-Russian military agreement was concluded
for this reason. In other words, the agreement wes concluded
because the realistic, imperialistic and selfish point of view
of both England and Russia, facing complete destruction, coin-
cided." The Anglo-Russian military agreement, concluded for such
reeson, inevitably contains many inconsistencies and the Yomiuri
Shimbun has pointed out these inconsistencies as follwos: "The
English inconsistency is the existence of anti-Soviet clique in
England. As you all know, it was this anti-Soviet clique that
controlled England's diplomatic policy up till the outbreak of
the current war. This cligue still has a great influence and
should Soviet Russia become the direct diplomatic object, this
clique inevitably ill exert its power. It cannot be denied that
there is a great possibility of England seeking peace with Germany
for the purpose of overthrowing the Soviet Ru: sia. On June 22
when Russo-German war broke out, Premier Churchill repeatedly
broadcast thet England had no intention to conclude peace with
Gormany, but this announcement wes made to guard against the strong
peace movement that had broke out in England." In other words,
throught the conclusion of the Anglo-Russian agreement, England
would have to lower the anti-Sovict banner, which she had flutter-
ing for a long tine. In order to do this, she must hold in check
the anti-Soviet clique, which holds a strong influonce. Horin
lies England's curront inconsistency. Furthermore, the Yomiuri
Shimbun continued, "The same can be said of America. How strong
her enmity toward Germany is can be seen clearly by her occupation
of Iceland, but America's intention is to make England continue
her fight against Germany and thus acquier the supremacy of the
world." In other words, in consideration of her opposition again-
st communism and her self aim to acquire the supremacy of the
world, America is regarding Sovie t Russia as her enomy, too.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
Therefore, in order to give aid to Soviet Russia, she, willingly
or unwillingly, must check her public sentiment and even bend her
selfish aim for the present. America's aid to Soviet Russia,
thus, must over this great obstacle. Herein lies her inconsist-
ency: This is the claim of the Yomiuri Shimbun. On the other
hand, let us consider Soviet Russia. In regard to Soviet Russia
the Asahi Shimbun commented, as follows: "Soviet Russia has
tried every means to bolshevize the world, and she has hated
America and England just as much as England and America had hated
her. Immediately after the outbreak of war with Germeny, England
sent missions to Soviet Russia to form an &lliance with Russia for
the purpose of forming and anti-German bbc. However, Russia re-
jected these proposals and took on a policy of rapprochement to-
ward Germeny, instead. Yet, leaving aside their past principles
and claims, they have come to reach an agreement in that their
mutual enemy is Germany. Furthermore, their territory is about
to trampled by Germant, their mutual enemy. By this, it can be
seen how distressing the state of England and Russia is and how
utilitarianistic their agreement is. On July 9, the Soviet Govern-
ment made Foreign Minister Litvinov broadcast the necessity of
Anglo-Russian collaboration in English. The gist of the talk
was in view of the fact that Germany, who is the mutual enemy of
Russia and England, has her troops concentrated along the eastern
front, this is the tine England should accomplish her all out war
against Germany and should destroy the German military establish-
ments and harbor facilities in the west, that this is the time
for England to show her sincerity of aid toward Soviet Russia
and that she ought to know that the fate of Sovict Russia is the
fate of England at the same time. This can be surmised as Soviot's
complaint against England's attempt to negotiate peace with Ger-
many and her ineffectivo move ageinst Germany. At the same time
it can be taken as revealing how unreliable England is, in the eyes
of Russia." This is the editorial of Asahi Shimbun. After con-
sidering it in this manner, we can see that great inconsistoncies
lio in the realetions between England and Soviet Russia and in
America's aid to Russia and it can be said that they are about
to topplo from its foundation. (Rocord indistinct) It can be
said, I think, that an unnatural alliance is worth nothing, but
let us consider its actual effect. In regard to this, the Nichi-
Nichi Shimbun stated, "Duo to her three yoars of war, England
has completcly lost her fighting power, and it is an undoniable
fact that sho is carryin on the war solely through America's aid.
To what an extint can England in such a stato give aid to Soviet
Russiao This noed not bo explainod. Besidos, to what extent
would she bo able to assist, when she has not onough ships to oven
bring in her materials and hor routes aro completoly closed up by
Germany? This too, is plain. Therefore, England's aid to Russia
will not be moro than spiritual." Thus, all the editorials of
the nowspapers, as wo havo seen, heve indicated that tho Anglo-
Russian military allianco has no value, but lot us consider its
effect on tho Far East.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6
In regard to this, the Hochi Chimbun stated, "Russia's conclusion
of an alliance with England, even if it were for her war against
Germany, seems to have cast a speck of dark clouds in the rela-
tions between Russia and Japan centering around East Asia", and
emphasized the necessity of watching future developments. Besides,
the Asahi Shimbun stated, "Our country should pay strict attention
to the developments of the anglo-Russian collaboration." This
statement is pregnant with a strong opinion to the effect that
Japen should thwart England's sinister plan and drive out communism
in order to establish her East Asia mutual prosperity sphere and,
at the same time, represents the attitude to be taken by Japan to
cope with the strom-like international situation. It also is a
statement making known to the world that Japan will maintain its
great principle of universal concordia and will watch with grave
concern any third power's attempt to obstruct this.
Domestic News (Shikoku):
Tokushima Frefecture: News of fishing being very
good in the rivers of the said prefecture.
Kagawe Prefecture: News of great harvest of p tatoes.
Kochi Prefecture: News of great production of first
grade tea.
Ehime Prefecture: News of completion of a railway tunnel.
News of the selection of a certein shrine as a national treasure.
News of formation of a central youth's organization, controlling
the various youths organizing within the prefecture. Movement
sponsored by local chapter of the National Support Society.
Talk "A talk to overseas Japanese residents" by Hidejiro
Nagata, member of the House of Peers: (Record not very distinct.
Talk to be digested). Last July 7th was exactly the fourth anni-
versary of the China incidont. It is the desire of Japan to settle
this incident locally (as a problem of East Asia.) However, the
incident has been aggravated gr tly with the result that Japan
has been forced to stretch her hands as far south as French Indo-
China. As you all know, Chiang Kai-shek is still continuing his
histilities, but this need not be heeded, for the Nanking Govern-
ment, led by Wang Ching-wei, is making a sound progress. Besides,
the reations between the Nanking Government and Japan hes been
greatly strengthened. Today, the Nanking Government hes been
given recognition by eight European nations, including Germany and
Italy. The reconstruction of East Asia is a great project, but
its first stage has been accomplished. (Record very indistinct.)

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Page7
No matter how long the war continues, Japan's supplies will never
be exhausted, although control of food-stuffs is being enforced
at home. You Japanese residents ebroad, may think that there is
a great shortage of food-stuffs in Japan, but this is not so.
(Indistinct) The war between Germany and Pussia is of great con-
cern of Japan, for if America should enter the war, Japan must be
prepared to enter the war too, on the side of Germany. Thus,
Japan is watching with grest concern the developments of the war.
"hen the League of Nations refused to recognize Manchoukuo as
an independent nation, didn't Japan withdraw from the League?
Such is the determination of Japan. She is deternined to create
a new order in East Asia, regardless of any attempt of the third
power's to obstruct her. If this cannot be dono peacefully,
Japan has no alternative, but to take the alternative, but to
take the last resort (?). (Record very indistinct.) Although
it is being thought that Japan hes weakened considerably, it is
not so, for Japan is watching with greet concern the developments
of the Russo-German var and America's move. Possessing much in
reserve, she is maintaining a powerful silence. Our belief is
that Heaven helps those who help themselves. Overseas Japanese
residents, please do not worry, but look at Japan with a correct
knowledge. (Talk would have been very interesting if record had
been clear. )
Japanese National Anthem

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/18/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
News:
News of Emperor's visit to Kanagawa Prefecture to
attend the graduation exercise of the military academy.
News of the appointment of Prince Konoye by Emperor to
form a new cabinet. Based on the selection made by Minister of
Home Affairs Kido.
Meetings held by both army and navy leaders to cooperate
with Prince Konoye in the formation of the cabinet.
Appointment of Prince Konoye as leader of the new cabinet
well received in Shanghai and Hsingking, urging Konoye to build
and unshakable foundation of the creation of a new order in East
Asia.
Soviet Anbassador to Japan ............ today called on
Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs Ohashi and discussed important
matters.
News of Japanese troops operations in China: Japanese
troops reportedly annihilated a detachment of Chinese troops at
Gokajo--Killed 129 and captured 20 enemy troops and many arms
and ammunitions.
Lt. General Shigenori Kuroda, who has been appointed as
Inspector-general of Military Education, today arrived in Moji
on board the Brezil Maru from Dairen.
News of ship movement: Heian Maru left Yokohama yesterday
for Seattle and Vancouver. Asame Maru today left Yokohama for
San Francisco by way of Honolulu. Principle passengers on Embassy
in London, Vice-Consul (?) Kobayashi
.....and 35 others.
Ministry of Education to celebrate its 7Oth anniversary
today.
Total savings in banks of Japan to date total 5,138,000,
oo0 yen, according to a survey.
Nows of picture exhibit to be held at Mitsukoshi Depart-
ment Store at Ginea, Tokyo, from July 25 by Towa Sheshin Hokoku
Kai (East Asia Photographers' Patriotic Society), organized last
with a membership of 203,000.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of Axis Powers' representatives' Mt. Fuji climbing
party. To climb to the top tomorrow and pray for the success
of the Axis Powers. To be composed of five Germans, two Italians
and repdesentatives of Manchoukuo, Nanking and Thailand, totalling
15 in al1.
Makoto Yano and his party, who were scheduled to fly by
plane from Yokohama to Bangkok today to settle the boundary be-
tween Thailand end French Indo-China, will leave tomorrow due to
the bad weather.
News of Thailand making preparation to take over the new
territories.
News of the Russo-Cerman war: It has become definite
that German troops are advancing steadily toward Moscow. In the
central region, Cerman troops reportedly have teken Smolensk and
are heading toward Moscow.  In the southern region, the allied
troops of Germany and Rumania reportedly have captured Kishiniv.
As a result of the Gerran-Russo war, Russia has decided
to form a military commission to keep tab on the orders issued
by the Soviet High Conmand and to punish soldiers, who are un-
patriotic, lazy and try to desert.
A celebration to celebrate the recognition of the Nan-
king Government by the Axis Powers will be held today at Peking.
Similar celebration also to be held at other places.
Rationing of food-stuffs and manufactured goods to be
enforced in Moscow from July 17, according to a dispatch form
Moscow. Food-stuffs include, bread, sugar, butter, milk and
others. Manufactured goods include cotton goods, knitted,
shoes, stockings and othor necessities.
Japane se Music.
Corments on Current Events:
To talk on the achievements of the Konoye Cabinet:
(No reason that those already known given as the reasons for the
resignation of Konoye cabinet. Hentioned the chages in the the
personnel of the cabinet during the past yea and explained in
detail its achievemonts, espocially the national solidarity move-
ment. Claimed its movemonts wore all peaceful and undertaken for
the purpose of establishing world peace. Explained that no change
in policy will take place in the following manner: No matter who
drives the automobilo, the course it will tako is the same. Only
when a change occurs, a bettor driver is placed in the seat.)

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
Domestic News: (Tohoku Districts)
Fukushima Prefecture: Neww of the production of
Bayakko Tai (Boys ranging from 12 to 17, who gave up their lives
for their lord) in a motion picture as a symbol of loyalty. To
be shown to the students of Kokumin Gakko. (Primary schools)
News of the esteblishment of a nursery in Vatanabe Village by the
local chapter of the Netional Support Society.
Aomori Prefecture: News of the selection of a shrine
as a national treasuee.
Ivate Prefecture: News of a plan to establish a sea-
men training school for youths at Miyako City. News of prepara-
tions being made to send set-lers to Manchoukuo sometime in Oct.
Yamagata Prefecture: News of increased production
of rayon articles in Sakado City for shipment toward America.
News of the completion of Yachi-bashi (Bridge) spanning Mogami
River. Length 491 meters, width 5.50 meters.
Miyagi Prefecture: News of the mobilization of youth
for national service. News of the donation of 1,0o0 yen to a
shrine by a retired general for the purpose of worshipping for
the success of the Japanese troops in China.
Talk "Japanese Dancing" by Kin Hanayagi
Tommrrow's Program
###

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/19/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Japanese Music
News:
News of the completion of the third Konoye
cabinet. (Names of the cabinet members published in the Japanese
newspapers). Konoye's statement--"Japan's policy already fixed;
only need to be carried out." First cabinet meeting held on the
night of July 18 at the premier's residente. (Gave statement of
the various ministers. All mentioned the fact that Japan's po-
licy is fixed and will not be changed). Achievements of the
Konoye cabinet mentioned.
Editorials of the newspapers of Tokyo in regard to
the formation of the new cabinet. All mentioned the fact that
the formation of the new cabinet does not mean that any change
will be made in Japan's fixed policy.
News of the attitude in which the formation of the
new cabinet has been received in Manchoukuo and China. The for-
mation of the nev: cabinet looked upon as Japan's strengthening
of her policy of establishing a new order in E st Asia.
News of the reaction of European and American na-
tions toward the formation of the new cabinet. All silent on the
appointment of Admiral Toyoda as the new foreign minister and
are refraining from meking any definite statement.
Hews of the raid of Bairin, 40 kilometers north of
Anking, Anwhei Province, by the Japanese naval air force on July.
18th.
General Seishiro Itagaki, former High Command of
the Japanese expeditionary forces in China, who has been appoint-
ed commander-in-chief of the Korean force, and Genoral Kotaro
Nakamura, former commander-in-chief of the Korean force, who
has been appointed supreme war councillor, today celled on the
Emperor and made a report of their respective administrations
to the Emperor.
News of the resignation of Japanese Ambassador to
China Honda due to the change in tho administration. Vice-Mini-
ster of Foreign Affairs Ohashi, also, sent in his resicnation.
News of the departure of the Japanese delegation,
headed by Ir. Yano, from Yokohama this morning for Bangkok to
attend the conference to settle the boundary between Thailand
and Fronch Indo-China. Plane to stop over at Kansu (?) and head
for Bangkok.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of preparations being made to celebrate July 20
as the Imperial disembarkation day in commemoration of Emperor
Meiji's safe arrival in Yokohama in 1876. All ships in ports of
Japan to be fully dressed with flags.  Day has been set aside
to stimulate the seafaring spirit among the Japanese.
News of the Russo-German war: Heavy rain and stubborn
resistence of Russian troops checking Germen drive along the front.
However, German troons reportedly have mede considerable progress,
particularly in the regions near Smolensk. Smolensk reportedly
is in the hands of Germans. In the Baltic Sea, four Russian
submarines and one Fussian speed-boat reportedly have been cap-
tured by the Germans. Along the northern front, the allied troops
of Finland and Gerne ny reportedly advanced l60 kilometers into
Russina territories. According to the ennouncement of the Ger-
man High Command, Cerman troons entered Lenigrad on July 18 and
captured the Russian air field, together with 1500 planes. In
the south, the Be sarabian regions appear to have fallen complete-
ly into the hands of the German troops.
Japanese Music.
Comment on Current Events:
Talk on the remarkable economic progress ade in
North China: (Purely a propaganda, mentioning the restoration of
peace and order and the economic progress made in North China.
Described Japanese troons' operations as constructive instead
of destructive.)
Good evenins, Children of Hawaii. Tlis is you long
awaited Children's News Hour From Tokyo, Japan. Today is July
19th in Jepan, which is a day earlier than Hawaii. In Japan,
July 13 to 16 was celebrated as the Bon festival, which is one
of the old time customs of Jepan. We believe that you fathers
and mothers, who were born in Japan, fondly recalled this festival.
In Japan, it is believed that the departed souls of our ancestors
return to their respective homes during this period. Consequently
to welcome the souls of our ancestors home fire is lighted in
front of homes throuthout Japan. This fire is called "Mukai-bi"
or welcoming fire. Within the homes are laid straw mats, upon
which are placed tables with offerings for the departed souls
of our ancestors. Together with these offerings are placed melons
and egg-plants, made in the forms of animals. It is always be-
lécved that the departed souls of our ancestors ride away on
these animels made from molons and egg-plants. Isn't this a beau-
tiful custom, somewhat like a fariy tale. Perhaps, some of your
parents celebrated the Bon Festival.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
Ever since the three Bon Festival periods, Tokyo has been exper-
iencing real summer with the sun shining brightly every day.
However, due to the intermitten rain, it is not so hot yet. On
the other hand, all the pools of Tokyo have been opened and are
being crowded with children after school hours every day. Now,
let me explain to you the extablishment of the sea holiday. As
you all know, Japan is an island empore, bordered on the north
by the Japan See and on the south by the Pacific, which is rich
in natural resources and by way of which traffic is maintained
with America as well as Manchoukuo and China by boat. Thus, it
can be said that the sea is Japan's freight (?). Therefore,
Japan has decided to designate July 20 as sea holiday and hold
various celebrations pertaining to the sea, thus deepening the
'nowledge of the nation in regard to the sea. In connection with
this sea holiday, a Kaiyo Kojo (Literally means gym) will be er-
tablished in Tokyo Harbor, which is the gate-way of Tokyo, for
the children to make them associate vith the sea more intimately
for the purpose of building up their bodies. This gym will be
constructed on a ten acre reclaimed land in the form of a ship
three stories high. Besides, a yacht harbor will be extablished,
where boats of all sized will be kept ofr the use of the children
of Tokyo at all times, thus civing them sea training. This is
being looked forward eagerly by the children. In closing, we
believe that you have heard much from your par ats and your
elder brothers and sisters in regard to the Russo-German war.
As you all know, Germany and Russia are engaged in a great war,
stretching from the Baltic Sea on the north to the Black Sea on
the'south. This war front is approximately 2,O00 kilometers long.
Now: in regard to the war front of the Japanese troops fighting
in Chine against Chaing Kai-shek, dont be surprised, for it it
is 5,000 kilometers bng, stretching from 45 degrees north latitude
in Mongolia on the north 21 degroes north latitude in French Indo-
China &nd Hainan Island on tho south.Thus, it is approximatoly
two and a half timos greater than the Russo-German war front.
Besides, in regard to the climate, there is no great differonce
in the climate along the Russo-German war front, but along the
war front in China, there is a great difference. In Mongolia on
the north, the climato is 40 degrees below zero in win: or and
120 degrees in the surmer. Besides, in contrast to the numerous
mountains on the continent, the Ru so-German war is being conducted
on a great lovel plain. By these facts, you can seo the haraships
experienced by cu Japanoso troops in China. Well, good-night
children of Hawaii.
Nursery Tunos.
Theme Song

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4·Program
Date July 20, 1941
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Story of Feudal Japan.
News:
News of the formation of the third Konoye cabinet.
No change in policy expressed by the various ministers.
News of the reaction of the various nations: Australia
--In spite of the formation of a new cabinet, Australian Govern-
ment will not loosen her policy toward Japan. Soviet Russia--
In view of the fact that Prince Konoye is still head of the new
cabinet, Soviet Russia expects no change in Japan's policy.
Thailand--In view of the fact that Japan's aim is to free tho
races of East Asia, Thailand expected Prince Konoye to be select-
ed again as head of the new cabinet, although no official comment
has been made. London--British covernment to vatch the action of
the new foreign minister, Admiral Toyoda. Berlin--Germany expects
no change in Japan's foreign policy.
News of the Finnish Governments recognition of Man-
choukuo.
News of the arrival of General Toda, former High Command
of the Japanese expeditionary force in North China, who has been
appointed supreme war councillor, in Shimonoseki today.
News of the arrival of Kanakura this morning in Yokohama
from Honolulu with Ambassador Shigemitsu on board. Others were
Lt. Cmdr. Takeo Ejima, naval attache of the office of naval in-
spection at New York, Akiyoshi Fukuda, of the informations bu-
reau, who had completed his tour of Central and South America,
Prof. Iuto of the Kyushu Imperial University and the Subaru troupe,
which showed in Hawaii and along the Pacific coast.
News of the Japanese delecetion, headed by Mr. Yano,
arriving at Kansui, Formosa yesterday afternoon. Left for Saigon
this morning.
News of the debretion of the newly designated sea
holiday, observed in conmemoration of the return of Emperor
Meiji seaward by way of Yokohama. Holiday observed in Peking,
Teintsin, too.
News of the exhibition of Japan made machinery being
received with ereat popularity in Buenos Aires.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of the Russo-German war: In Bessarabia region,
the allied troops of Germany and Rumania reportedly have succeed-
ed in crossing the Dnestre Rive and are now approaching the
Stalin line. In the central regions, German troops reported have
crossed the Stelin line and captured Smolensk and are now march-
ing toward Moscow. At the same time, one division of Russian
troops reportedly have been captured at a point southwest of
Smolensk. Along the Finnish front, the allied troops of Germany
and Finland reportedly have broken through the Russian defense.
Besides, the broadcasting station in Leningrad reportedly has been
completely destroyed by German air raiders on July 16, On the
other hand, Russia n reports calim that no change has taken place
along the whole front, although fierce battles have been staged
at Smolenski and three other places.
News of anticipetion of reorganization of British cabi-
net in the near future.
News of conclusion of postal service agreement between
Italy and Runania.
News of the terninetion of production agreement be-
tween Germany end Switzerland on July 19. Hcwever, agreement
to be extended to the end of next year.
News of the announcement of the bleck list of Latin
American firms and individuals made by the American Covernment.
Japonese version is that it will cause ill relations between
America and the Latin American nations, which is contrary to the
good neighbor policy of A..erica. Even being debated within
Americe, herself, as to whether this was a wise policy or not.
Nows of increasing ill-relations between Chungking
end the Chinese Communist Army.
Comments on Current Events:
Talk on "Formation of new cabinet does not mean
that any change will be made in Japan's fixed policy": (Nothing
new worthy of translation. Title, itself, fully explains what
the contents of the corment are. Howevor, tho commentator ex-
plained the policy may be oxocuted with greater flexibility.)
Theme song.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
station JLU4·Program
Date July 20, 1941
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Story of Feudal Japan.
News:
News of the formation of the third Konoye cabinet.
No change in policy expressed by the various ministers.
News of the reaction of the various nations: Australia
--In spite of the formation of a new cabinet, Australian Govern-
ment will not loosen her policy toward Japan. Soviet Russia--
In view of the fact that Prince Konoye is still head of the new
cabinet, Soviet Russia expects no change in Japan's policy.
Thailand--In view of the fact that Japan's aim is to free tho
races of East Asia, Thailand expected Prince Konoye to be select-
ed again as head of the new cabinet, although no official comment
has been made. London--British government to watch the action of
the new foreign minister, Admiral Toyoda. Berlin--Germany expects
no change in Japan's foreign policy.
Nevs of the Finnish Governments recognition of Man-
choukuo.
News of the arrival of General Toda, former High Command
of the Japanese expeditionary force in North China, who has been
appointed supreme war councillor, in Shimonoseki today.
News of the arrival of Kanakura this morning in Yokohama
from Honolulu with Ambassador Shigemitsu on board. Others were
Lt. Cmdr. Takeo Ejima, naval attache of the office of naval in-
spection at New York, Akiyoshi Fukuda, of the informations bu-
reau, who had completed his tour of Central and South America,
Prof. Iuto of the Kyushu Imperial University and the Subaru troupe,
which showed in Havaii and along the Pacific coast.
News of the Japanese delecetion, headed by Hr. Yano,
arriving at Kansui, Formosa yesterday afternoon. Left for Saigon
this morning.
News of the debration of the newly designated sea
holiday, observed in commemoration of the return of Emperor
Heiji seaward by way of Yokohama. Holiday observed in Peking,
Teintsin, too.
News of the exhibition of Japan made machinery being
received with Ereat popularity in Buenos Aires.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of the Russo-German war: In Bessarabia region,
the allied troops of Germany and Rumania reportedly have succeed-
ed in crossing the Dnestre Rivee and are now approaching the
Stalin line. In the central regions, German troops reported have
crossed the Stelin line and captured Smolensk and are now march-
ing toward Moscow. At the same time, one division of Russian
troops reportedly have been captured at a point southwest of
Smolensk. Along the Finnish front, the allied troops of Germany
and Finland reportedly have broken through the Russian defense.
Besides, the broadcasting station in Leningrad reportedly has been
completely destroyed by German air raiders on July 16, On the
other hand, Russia n reports calim that no change has taken place
along the whole front, although fierce battles have been staged
at Smolenski and three other places.
News of anticipation of reorganization of British cabi-
net in the near future.
News of conclusion of postal service agreement between
Italy and Rumania.
News of the terninetion of production agreement be-
tween Germany end Switzerland on July 19. However, agreement
to be extended to the end of next year.
News of the announcement of the bleck list of Latin
American firms and individuals made by the American Government.
Japonese version is that it will cause ill relations between
America and the Latin Amorican nations, which is ccntrary to the
good neighbor policy of A..erica. Even being debated within
Americe, herself, as to whether this was a wise policy or not.
Nows of increesing ill-relations between Chungking
end the Chinese Communist Army.
Comments on Current Events:
Talk on "Formation of new cabinet does not mean
that any change will be made in Japan's fixed policy": (Nothing
new worthy of translation. Title, itself, fully explains what
the contents of the corment are. However, tho commentator ex-
plained the policy may be oxocuted with greater flexibility.)
Theme song.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/21/41
Frequency i7795 Kilocycles
News:
News of Japanese naval air force raiding Tozenchin
in Anwhei Province on July 19.
News of Premier Konoye reporting to his imperial an-
cestors the completion of the task of organizing a new cabinet.
News of Director Ishiguo of the Commerce Bureau holding
conference with trading merchants today at ....... Hotel. Tonite,
he is expected to confer with representatives of transportation
firms.
News of the return of Ambassador Shigemitsu.
News of the Nanking government not to change her course,
but to follow the one set by joint statement made by Wang Ching-
wei and Premier Konoye.
News of the Rumanian Minister to Jepan taking over
the post of Rumanian minister to China concurrently.
News of the plan of the Society for the promotion of
maritime interest to consturct a maritime affairs library with
an appropriation of 50o,O00 yen. Construction to take five years.
Libray to hold all kinds of data and books pertaining to maritime
affairs of Japan as will as the world.
News of the Japanese delegation's sefe arrival in Sai-
gon yesterday afternoon. Delegation to take part in the settle-
ment of the border between Thailand and French Indo-China at
Bangkok.
News of the conclusion of an exchange agreement between
Thailand and French Indo-China at Bangkok on July 19.
News of armed clash botween Chungking troops and the
Chinese Communist Army in ...........Province (Province not defi-
nite. Sounded like Shansi &nd Shantung Provinces.) Not serious
but has possibilities of becoming serious.
News of action taken by American and British agents
in Komming to negotiate a treaty with Chungking.
News of Great Britain scheming to aleinate Thailand
from Japan with a propaganda that 200,000 troops and 100,000

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
troops are stationed in Malay and Burma, respectively, and that
a total of 1,Oo0 planes are stationed at both places. But the
numerical strength of the troops stationed in Malay and Burma
has been found to be false, according to a dispatch from Bangkok.
According to a dispatch from Hongkong, a bill stipula-
ting compulsory military service of Indonesians has been intro-
duced and adopted by the legislative body of the Dutch East
Indies. Reported to have been motivated by Great Britain. How-
ever, due to great oposition, the execution of the law has been
postponed.
News of appointment of Stalin as head of the national
defense committee played up by newspapers of Japan. Claim to
have strengthened Stalin's dictatorial powers.
News of reorganization of Churchill's cabinet.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the advance guard
of German tank corps reportedly have reached a point 3oo kilo-
meters away from Moscow on July 19 (Note: In a broadcast, several
days ago, it was reported that the Germans had reached a point
170 kilometers away from Moscow. Thus, this broadcast seems to
contradict the previous broadcast. D.W.) Furthermore, the Ger-
man troops reportedly are staging an envelopment movement against
the retreating Russian troops at a point between Smolensk and
Moscow. Thas, according to a report from Ankara, the greater
part of the Moscow Government has been evacuated to Sverdlovsk
leaving only the foreign office and the military authorities in
Moscow. Besides, the foroign representatives in Moscow. Accord-
ing to a report recching Berlin, Moscow is experiencing a great
shortage of food-stuffs due to the large number of evacuees com-
ing from the war zones, and preparations to bomb the various fa-
cilities in Moscow, in the event of evacuation, reportedly have
been completed. On the other hand, a Russian report claims that
25 German planes were shot down and various German air fields
were bombed on July 20th.
News of Italian air force's air raid of Malta on July
19th, and destruction of a 10,000 warship off Mata. Also, the
destruction of two British submarines by Italian submarines.
News of the German athletic meet, held on July 2Oth,
at the Olympic Stadium in Berlin. (This broadcast was made with
the intention of showing the ample reserve of Germany.)

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
News of the Week, starting from July 13:
News of the reorganization of the Konoye cabinet.
News of the Japanese troops operations in China.
News of the Japanese delegation's departure by plane
from Yokohama to attend the eonference for the settlement d the
boundary between Thailand and French Indo-China.
News of the extablishrent of the sea holiday, July 20.
News of a plan to create a dormitory for Chinese students
studying in Japan.
Ne s of the appointment of Vice-Admiral Rokuzo Haiyama
(?), as Commander-in-chief of the Japanese fleet in North China
succeeding Vice-Admiral Shimizu.
News of the appointment of General Seishiro Itagaki,
as Commander of the Korean Force.
News of the appointment of General Kotaro Nakamura
as supreme war councillor.
News of the appointment of General Hata, High Commander
of the Japanese troons in North China, as supreme war councillor.
News of the return of Mrs. Tatekawa, wife of the Japa-
nese ambassador to Soviet Russia, together with the other eva-
cuees.
News of the return of Japanese Ambassador to England
Shigemitsu.
News of Japan for the month of July by Lt. General
Sakurai, (post not definite.)
Although you, Japanese residents abroad, are far
away from your fatherland, you all must be worrying how the war
(China incident) is progressing day and night. Fou years of
war, that certainly is not a short war, but we are not fighting
for ourselves, but for those of ten or more years hence. If we
were to conclude the war in a half-baked manner, there might be
another war. We must win the war, and the time will come when
even the people of China (?) will come to appreciate our effort.
In the wars of today, there are no first lines, nor second lines,
nor third lines. Those on the second line are also people of the
first line, together with the soldiers et the front.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
Pa€e#4
You, Japanese residing abroad, too, are people of the front line.
Some of youumay be thinking that Japan is suffering a shortage
of materials and you may have heard many false propaganda, but
what we are experiencing today is only proper in view of the four
years of war. But this is not true, for we are preserving our
food-stuffs, and this is a very reasonable measure. (This part
very indistinct) Where can we find a more bles ed nation than
Japan? How was the condition of the nations that fought for five
years during the previous World Var? (This part very indistinct)
Through the help of young boys and gins, the families of the sold-
iers at the front have been able to complete their rice planting.
They are doing all sorts of national service and are not playing
because it is hot. They are trying to build up their bodies and
are continuing their studies. I presume that this is also ture
of you all (Indistinct) Where there is since eity the masses
will gather. Thus, we are today fighting for the sake of sin-
serity. Therefore, I believe that t. e day will certainly come
when China (?) wili express her appreciate toward us. Japanese
residents abroad, please remember that your actions and speech
will have a great effect upon our country. Therefore, we should
be very careful. In view of the times, I believe that you Japa-
nese residents abroad should be all the more cautious. Summer
has come, but but Japan is burning with a great ambition and
spirit. Japanese residents residing so far, far away, I sin-
cerely hope for your success.
Tomorrow's program.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/22/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Unable to record first part of this
program because of atmospherics. Translator's note: Seems to be
news of the new Konoye cabinet.) Since our national policy has
been decided at an imperial conference, it absolutely cannot be
changed through the reorganization of the cabinet. At such a
time, you Japanese residents abroad should place greater confi-
dence upon our country's fixed policy and be especially careful
against the false propaganda of the third powers. This is the
wish of our authorities concerned.
News of stronger peace movement cropping up in Chu,g-
king due to our air force's repeated raids and Chungking exerting
greater pressure on the advocates of peace.
News of armed clashbetween Chungking and the Chinese
Communist Army.
News of the Russo-German war: According to DNB, one
division of Russian troops have been wiped out by the German
troops along the central front and German air force bombed the
Russian troops, encircled by German troops near Smolensk. Be-
sides, at a point north of Smolensk, the Gernan air force re-
portedly destroyed 340 Russian trucks and 26 armored tanks.
Furthermore, in the south, the allied troops of Gernany, Hungary
and Rumania reportedly are meling great progress. Moreover, the
Rumanian High Cormand yesterday announced that the Rumanian troops
have shot down 223 Russian p anes to date.
News of the capture of Lt. Stalin, son of Dictator
Stalin. Ill-feeling between Stalin and his s∞n revealed through
the latter's capture.
News of Gernany's attitude toward the reorganization
of the British ccbinet. Reorganization regarded as only sec-
tional and insignificant.
News of British attempt to strengthen her Near Eastern
position. New conscription law passed by the Egyptain legisla-
ture to augment the armed forces.
News of the change in the personnel of the Vichy
Governmont.
News of Director of ........ Bureau Alester's (?)
strong enti-British and anti*American statement made bofore the
Valencia conference. Urged that no foreign flag should be al-
lowed to flutter over Spanish soil, that Gibraltar should be re-
occupied and that relations with England and America should be
cat off.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2
Comment on Current Events:
Introduction of new members of Konoye cabinet: Admir-
al Teijiro Toyoda, nevly appointed foreign minister succeeding
Yosuke Matsuoka--was appointed minister of commerce from vice-
minister of navy on the second Konoye Cabinet. Successfully
solved the problems pertaining to coal and iron. Native of
Wakayama Prefecture, Studied at foreign language school for a
while after craduating fpom middle school. Very profioient in
English. Man of intellect and listens to reasons of others.
Luch expected of him as the new foreign minister. Minister of
Finance Oguar--An industrialist. Was minister of state on the
previous cabinet. (Record very indistinct). Minister of com-
merce Sakonji--The name Sakonji has appeared as director of mili-
tary affairs, as a delegcte to the London Conference, as Vice-
minister of navy and as cormandant of Sasebo naval base (Record
very indistinct.) Said to very reasonable and affable. Minister
of Health Koizumi--Native of Fukui Prefecture. Graduate of the
medical college of Tokyo Imperial University (?). Then commis-
sioned as lieutenent of the medical corps, later becoming presi-
dent of the military medical school, inspecotr-general of medical
affairs, (Indistinct). Minister of Internal affairs Tanabe--
(Indistinct) . Became minister of communication. Very will ver-
sed in domestic affairs, Much expected of him s the new mini-
ster of internal affeirs. Native of Yamanashi Prefecture and
64 years old. Minister without portfolio Hiranuma--A very con-
sistent man. Ability cnd intelligence regarded highly by Pre-
mier Konoye. Has the courage to do what he thinks is right in
spite of great opposition. Minister without portfolio Yanagawa
--Was formerly minister cf justice. Is Lieutenant General in
the army. Played an active role under Minister of Var Araki as
Vice-Minister of var. as in chrge of the landing of the Japa-
nese troops in the face of enemy fire at .......... in this
current China incident. (Record very indistinct.)
Japanese Iusic
##

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/22/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Unable to record first part of this
program because of atmospherics. Translator's note: Seems to be
news of the new Konoye cabinet.) Since our national policy has
been decided at an imperial conference, it absolutely cannot be
changed through the reorganization of the cabinet. At such a
time, you Japanese residents abroad should place greater confi-
dence upon our country's fixed policy and be especially careful
against the false propaganda of the third powers. This is the
wish of our authorities concerned.
News of stronger peace movement cropping up in Chu,g-
king due to our air force's repeated raids and Chungking exerting
greater pressure on the advocates of peace.
News of armed clashbetween Chungking and the Chinese
Communist Army.
News of the Russo-German war: According to DNB, one
division of Russian troops have been wiped out by the German
troops along the contral front and German air force bombed the
Russian troops, encircled by German troops near Smolensk. Be-
sides, at a point north of Smolensk, the Gernan air force re-
portedly destroyed 340 Russian trucks and 26 armored tanks.
Furthermore, in the south, the allied troops of Gernany, Hungary
and Rumania reportedly are meling great progress. Moreover, the
Rumanian High Cormand yesterday announced that the Rumanian troops
have shot down 223 Russian p anes to date.
News of the capture of Lt. Stalin, son of Dictator
Stalin. Iil-feeling between Stalin and his son revealed through
the latter's capture.
News of Gernany's attitude toward the reorganization
of the British ccbinet. Reorganization regarded as only sec-
tional and insignificant.
News of British attempt to strengthen her Near Eastern
position. New conscription law passed by the Egyptain legisla-
ture to augment the armed forces.
News of the change in the personnel of the Vichy
Governmont.
News of Dircctor of ........ Bureau Alester's (?)
strong enti-British and anti*Anerican statement made bofore the
Valencia conference. Urged that no foreign flag should be al-
lowed to flutter over Spanish soil, that Gibraltar should be re-
occupied and that relations with England and America should be
cat off.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
Comment on Current Events:
Introduction of new members of Konoye cabinet: Admir-
al Teijiro Toyoda, newly appcinted foreign minister succeeding
Yosuke Matsuoka--was appointed minister of commerce from vice-
minister of navy on the second Konoye Cabinet. Successfully
solved the problems pertaining to coal and iron. Native of
Wakayama Prefecture, Studied at foreign language school for a
while &fter graduating fpom middle school. Very profioient in
English. Man of intellect and listens to reasons of others.
Luch expected of him as the new foreign minister. Minister of
Finance Oguar--An industrialist. Was minister of state on the
previous cabinet. (Record very indistinct). Minister of com-
merce Sakonji--The name Sakonji has appeared as director of mili-
tary affairs, as a delegcte to the London Conference, as Vice-
minister of navy and as cormandant of Sasebo naval base (Record
very indistinct.) Said to very reasonable and affable. Minister
of Health Koizumi--Native of Fukui Prefecture. Graduate of the
medical college of Tokyo Imnerial University (?). Then commis-
sioned as lieutenent of the medical corps, later becoming presi-
dent of the military medicsl school, inspecotr-general of medical
affairs, (Indistinct). Minister of Internal affairs Tanabe--
(Indistinct) . Became minister of communication. Very will ver-
sed in domestic affairs, Much expected of him s the new mini-
ster of internal affeirs. Native of Yamanashi Prefecture and
64 years old. Minister without portfolio Hiranuma--A very con-
sistent man. Ability cnd intelligence regarded highly by Pre-
mier Konoye. Has the courage to do what he thinks is right in
spite of great opposition. Minister without portfolio Yanagawa
--Was formerly minister of justice. Is Lieutenant General in
the army. Played an active role under Minister of Var Araki as
Vice-Minister of var. as in chrge of the landing of the Japa-
nese troops in the face of enemy fire at .......... in this
current China incident. (Record very indistinct.)
Japanese lusic
##

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/23 (0r 24) 41
Frequency i7795 Kilocycles
Japanese music
(Translator's note: Recorder must have forgotten to s
start recording after cutting out music, for only the last line
of the corment on current events "making concrete this policy
should be done by the Konoye cabinet, for the attempt of the
third powers to alienate the axis powers can only be stopped by
our country's future policy based on this" was recorded.)
Dance music
Talk on Japanese folk song by Tokutaro Fujita, in-
structor at
Higher School
Theme song.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 9, 1941
WRL
WAX
PA/W
Reference Tokyo's despatch
5727, July 17, 1941.
To note that the British
have formally protested in vigor-
ous language to the Japanese over
the'unfair and subversive"nature
of broadcasts from Japanese radio
stations directed at audiences
in India and Burma.
894.76/48
FESchuler:MBW

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.92)
DCR
HOOVER
fOR
277
Federal Burean of Juvestigation
Anited States Department of Justire
ashington, D.U.
FE
August 25, 1941
41
PERSONAL AND 
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
SECRETARY
Washington, D. C.
ASSISTANT
06 95 1941
MR. BERLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
94.76/46
As of possible interest to you I am transmitting
herewith one copy of the translated radio broadcasts from
894.76
Tokyo, Japan for the period of July 28 to July 31, 1941,
inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
Lo. atoover
Justice
Enclosures
By RIG
Depastment Guridelines, 1-27,1964
DECLASSIFIED
Tle
NARS, Date 5.16.4984
PS/AC
AUG 26 1941

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 7/28/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
News:
Imperial conference to discuss the joint defense
agreement of French Indo-China was held today.
News of the scheduled vice-ministers' meeting today,
to be held at the Premier's residence. The French Indo-China
and the accompanying international problems were discussed.
News of the retaliatory measure of the Japanese Govern-
ment against America's freezing of Japanese assets. Control of
trade with foreigners to be effective from today, but to be car-
ried out in a manner that will least effect the economic relation
of Japan and Arerica.
News of the Manchoukuoan Covernment's decision to freeze
England's and America's assets. Besides, Japanese consulates in
North China to carry out similar measures in China.
News of the Shanghai Japanese consulete's decision to
control trade between foreigners and Japanese subjects in Shang-
hai. Similar restrictions will be enforced in Canton.
News of the signing of specific agreements between Gen.
Sumida and French representatives at Hanoi for the execution of
the joint defense agreement.
Rumors of tho probability that England may intensify
her intimidation of Thailand due to the conclusion of the joint
defense agreenent between Fronch Indo-China and Japan.
News of the editorial of New York Times and Herald Tri-
bune of July 27 in regard to America's act of freezing Japanese
assets. (Japan's corment is that those editorials are in all
likelihood representative of the sentiment of the public and that
before America talks about Japan's policy, she should consider
her anti-Japanose policy undertaken in the Far East and since the
creation of a new order is of absolute necessity to Japan, Aneri-
ca absolutely will not be ablo to bend Japan's determination, no
mater how hard she may try.)
America and England's act of freezing Japanese assets
and England's abrogation of her trade agreement with Japan are
being regarded seriously by Gorreny as to whether these measures
will only be usod to chock Janan's encroachment into French Indo-
China.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of the notification of freezing of Japanese assets
by the British finance Minister to tho London Branch Manager Kano
of the Yokohama Specie Bank. Japenese residents of London indig-
nant over Britain's unreasonable acts. In view of America's oc-
cupation of Iceland and Britain's attack on Syria, neutrals in
London are at a loss as to why Japan's peaceful encroachment into
French Indo-China is illegal.
Hews of the suspension of the credit agreement between
Bank of Java and Yokohama Specie Bank. Vill have great effect
upon Japan. Foreign office to watch its development closely.
Dutch East Indies also to carry out restriction of trade and
freezing of Japanese assets. To be e fective from July 28.
News of the notification of New Zealand to abrogate trade
relations with Japan.
News of Russo-German war: German troops reportedly en-
tered Leningrad on July 26. German troons in Smolensk region
reportedly making steady progress. Some reportedly have advanced
as far as Vyazma.
News of Gernen air force's raid on Northern and Southern
England and also Suez Canal.
News of British air force's raid on Eaden.
News of Itclian air force's raid on lalta and destruc-
tion of fo r British planes.
Japanese cic
eather broadcast.
News of the Week (July 20 to 26)
Fows of conclusion of joint defense of French Indo-
China and the Vichy Government .
News of America and England's act of freezing
Japanese assets and England's abrogation of trade relations.
Nuws of exchange of message between Premier Konoye
and Wang Ching-wei.
News of appointmont of Michio Iwamura as minister
of justice.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
age ¥3
News of reorganization of administrative funotions to
speed up the vork of the administretion.
Lews of Foreign Hinister Toyoda's first meeting with
foreign representatives on July 25.
Iews of the decision of the Mational Support Society to
organize the Dai-Nippon Seinen Dan (Youths Association of Japan).
Preparations to be completed by the middle of ugust.
Tews of granting of educational rants by the Ministry
of Health to children of fanilies recontly honored as being the
largest in Japan.
News of sone sort of vork for crippled soldiers (Record
faded into t.e noise.)
News of the decision to create a population bureau
within the ministry of Health. Purpose to encourage births and
foster healthier children.
Hews of the selection of four university professors
for promotion of Japanese culture in China.
News of the change in corsnand of the suprene co mand of
the Japanese foree in Central China. Lt. Gen. Terushita Komaki
appointed as the new suprere co.mandor.
News of the Jupanose troops' operation in Liangsu Pro-
vince. Started from the night of July 20 and acconplished by
July 22.
Nevs of Man'ling Govermient's plan to enlarge the area
of eace and ordcr step by step.
Japanese Music
Talk on the Russo-Gerran war by Zenzo Faomi, of Chugai
Shogyo (Domestic and Foreign Co rercial Fevs): Stressed the fact
that the fete of Ru sie depends upon her producticn power, civing
various statics in regard to producticn of nineral matters and
food-stu fs, and claimed that the following factors should be
taen into considerction hen merica's aid to Soviet Russia is
to be discussed: That Aaerica, at present, has her hands full
with projects to build up her national defenses and te aid Eng-
land. That mericans and Russians have no surplus of ships for
transportation of materials. That the transportation routes of
Siberia are not good. That even if aid to Russia is successfully
undortaken, that voulc not make u: fer the loss of Russia's rich

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
Page #4
Eurcpean regions. In other vords, he, although not openly, in-
dicated Aierica's aid to Soviet Russia will not help Russia to
win the war.
Tomorrow's Program
Japanesc rusic
Japanese national anthom
i i 

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Suation JLU4 Program
Date 7/29/41
Frecuency 17795 Kilocycles
Comic Talk
Japanese Music
News:
Lews of cabinet's meeting of July 29. Explanation
of Japan's economic and financial condition as aifected by Eng-
land and merica's freezing of Japanese assets aed by Finance
Minister Ogura and Comerce Minister Sakonji. A report on this
matter also made by Foreign Linister Toyoda.
Kews of the meeting of Privy Council held yesterday to
discuss the joint defense agreenent of French Indo-China con-
cluded with the Vichy Government. Foreign Minister Toyoda or-
dered to instruct J pancse Aibassador to France Kato to sign the
agreement with the Vichy overnment irediately. Agr ement
probably to becorne effective irmediately upon affizing of si-
natures.
News of Japanese Ambassador Iato's discussion vith Vice-
Premier Darlan in regard to the joint defense agreetont concluded
at Kanoi.
News of the Jupnese Gcvernment's decision to add to the
list of nations, vhose assets have been frozen, the following
places: Hongkong, Hetherlands and Dutch East Indics. Thus, the
nations, whose assets have been frozen, are Aierica and her
possessions, Philippines, Canada, England Morthern Ireland,
Hongkong, Netherlands and Dutch East Indies.
Hews of New Zealand's abrogation of her "nost friendly
nation" trade agree ent and Dutch East Indies' suspension of
her credit agreem nt with Japan, freezing of Japanese assets
and restriction of trade towurd Japan, Lianchoukuo, China and
French Indo China and also the notification of suspension of
oil agreenent with Japan. As a result, no trade agreenent ex-
ests between Japan and the anglo-Anerican bloc and Japan vill
strive for the establishment of self-sufficiency of East sia.
Japanese cov rnent to watch e actions of the Anglo-American
bloc and act accordingly.
Hews of no notification received by the foreign office
in regard to Dutch East Indies' suspension of her oil agreement
with Japan, thus making it impossible to tell whether the sus-
pensicn is of terporary nature of of permanent nature. However,
Japan regrets Dutch Eest Indies attitude and is prepared to take
a firm stand.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
Page2
News of Consul-General Ishizawa's call on the Dutch East
Indies Linister of Economics and request for an explanation in
regard to Dutch East Indies'suspension of her credit agreenent
with Japan.
Hews of a neeting held today by leaders of the Nanking
Governnent to discuss the measure to take against America freez-
ing of her assets.
News of the effect of the conclusion of the joint defense
agreement of French Indo-China upon the 6,000,000 Chinese of the
South Seas. In other words, the conclusion of the joint defense
agreenent will solidify the foundation of the new order in East
Asia and becone a mute pressure against the Anglo-Anerican envelop-
ment movement against Japan. It also will accelerate our effort
to restore peac e and order in South China and contribute great-
ly toward the strengthening of the anking Government. The most
inportant of tis effects will be the alienation of the Chinese
of the south from the Chungking Governncnt.
News of the opinion of the financial circle of Hanoi in
regard to Anerica's action to freeze Japanese assets. Opinion
is that erica's action will make rench Indo-China actively
take part in Japan's East Asia mutual prosperity sphere.
In an editorial entitled Mutual Enemy", Editor Gayda of
the Journal de Italia stated as follovs: The econo ic oppression
against Japan, like the League of Nations' econonic sanction
against Italy, will only increase Japan's antagonisr: (?). Japan
today, has control of a large area of Last Asia and viil retaliate
against America with a large scaled economic ...
rews of appointtent of ........... .liatsuzaka as attorney-
general to succeed lichio Iwanura, who has been appointed Mini-
ster of Justice.
Hews of Under-Secretary or Foreign Affairs Vells' refusal
to com ent on vhether Aaorica will stop supplying Japan vith oil
in a press interview.
News of Department of States an ouncerent that no Japanese
ship will be seized upon arrival in Arerican ports.
Hews of lavy Departrent's anmouncetent that parachutes will
be nade from rayon in the event America's freezing of Japanese
assets are stopping the flow of silk ini Aierica.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Page#3
News of the Russo-German war: In view of the reported
defeats of Russien troops near Smolensk, the battle in that re-
gion will shortly end in German victory. On the other hand, the
allied troops of Gernany and Rumania reportedly are pursuing the
retreating Russian troops in Ukranian region. Advance of German
troops also rogressing smoothly in other regions. According to
DNB reports, the Gernans have captured 35,Oo0 Russian troops and
750 machine guns, 250 guns and any other weapons. Another DNB
report clains that Germans broke through the Stalin line on July
27th, (German troops advanced fron Southern Bessarabia.)
News of the Finnish Government's notification to break off
diplomatic relations with England for the sirple reason that Fin-
land is now an ally of Cer.any.
News of Italian air force's raid of Lalta, in cooperation
with the Italian navy, and the Gerran air force's raid on London.
J&panese Music
Co:ent on Current Events:
To talk on Japan's preperaticn against the Anglo-
American freezing of J: panese essets: With the conclusicn cf the
joint defense agree ent of French Indo-China, between Japan and
France, merica im.ediatel issued an order to freeze Japanese
assets in America and England, acting in concert with America,
also undertook a similar measure, besides abrogating her treaty
of conmerce and navigation vith Japan. In view of their past at-
titude toward Japan, it had been anticipated that such action
would be taken by tler. sooner or later. As expected, it has now
appeared as an econonic sanction against Japan. lthough it is
nothing to be surprised of, our concern is that it has been invoked
as & political retaliation against the joint defense agreement
reached between France and Japan. In other words, the ain of Eng-
land and America's action is to solidify their encirclerent move-
nent against Jupan through an economic aspect and politically
check our country's creation or an East Asia lutual Prosperity
S phere. Herin lies the crux of the problen. Now, let us con-
sider the degree of provocative significance this joint defense
agreement has against these third powers. In as much as it is a
defense, there can be no mistake in the fact that  ere exists
an inaginary ene. y. Besides, it certainly has a military charac-
teristic. However, when the present position of French Indo-China,
the trend of the China incident, the resurrection of the Vichy
Government and her desire tovard her colonial settlements and
Japan's ............... are taken into consideration, the inter-
pretation of the military characteristic of the joint defense of
French Indo-China becomes clear of its owm accort. Beside,

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #4
there is no need for defense preparaticns where no threat exists.
Now, let us consider who made it nece. sary For Japan and French
Indo-China to take up this joint defense and vnat made the news-
papers of Irance and French Indo-China cry out against the oppres-
sion from the north and south against French Indo-China and point
out the inability of French Indo-China to defend herself with her
own strength. Indeed, the jcint defense cf rench Indo-Ciina was
brought about by conditions against hich Japan, who must continue
her China incident to the last, cannot look on vith folded arms
and, at the same time, by thc desire to prevent French cclonial
settlements from falling into the hands of the other naticns.
Thus, on one knows better than Egland and Aierica, both of whom
are now carrying out economic retaliatory reasures against Japan,
the underlying reasons. If there is any one who clai's that a
provocative arbition is harbored within the joint defense measure
of French Indo-China and Japan, we cannot iel, but say that he is
one with a mind that cannot comprehend the re son and order of
things or me that has the contemptible i tentirn oi c. nfusion
the facts and using then adversely. Besides, we can say "Look
at their numerous pro-Chieng and hostile activities since the out-
break of the China incident and at the political and military
anti-Japanese cliques forned aiong ngland, erica, Dutch East
Indies, Australia and Chungking and among ng land,  erica, Russia,
and Chungking to break up Japan's power to dispose of the incident."
These all were actions openly undertaken and based on thcir one-
sided assumption nd were the greatest factors disruptin the
peace of East sia. In spite of all this, vwhat did Japan do?
She only tried to conelude a trade agreer.ent with the Dutch East
Indies and intervened in the settlerent of the berder dispute be-
tween French Indo-Chi a and Thailand, Can these be called aried
aggression? He nave no alternative but ask the world this ques-
tion. Furthermore, the ........of the creater East Asia nutual
pros perity sphere, which Javan is deelarine and advccating as the
:eans of settling the incident, is funda entally (i fferent fron
the typical realistic (?) and conventional interpretations. It
is neither an exclusive trade policy nor a ............. nilita y
policy. It is  erely the reccgnition of the advantageous geo-
graphical position, which can be rightfully controlled by Japan's
political power of leadership, and the naintenance of a self-
sufficient econcy based on this, Besides, it is nccdloss to men-
tion that it has as its basds a genuine and ..........decire of
mutual prosperity and e xistence and nothin icre, for the Konoye
cabinet, which is striving for thc settle.ent cf the incident,
has frankly testified to this. In fact, it is bein clearly
proven in our country's policy against the Nanking Governietn
and tanifestation of respect toward the integrity and rights
of French Indo-China. And this new order-like spirit of naming
this a mutual prosperity sphere and actually carrying cut it

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #5
certainly is the genuine moral progress of Japan, vhich is en-
deavoring to spread the way fo God and is marching toward the
great ideal of universal concordia. At the same time, this, as
the only constructive ................leading to the great prin-
ciple of world xace, is a truth, which no thoughtful person can
deny. If this were to be denied and destroyed, then, we nust say
that nothing could be discussed peacefully, nor wouid it be pos-
sible. Thus, it appears as if England und America, logically and
realistically, have such intentions as the basis ior their actias
and have retaliated against our country with such measures as
freezing cf our as ets and abrogation of the treaty of cor erce
and navigation. Then, on July 28, it appeared as Dutch East
Indies' nctification of suspension of hei c redit agreetent, re-
striction of her trade and freezing of Japanese as ets and with
New Zealand's notification to abrc gate her trade agreement, the
aim (?) of ............. became all the more clear. To be sure,
this antiJapanese economic blockade scheme or England, merica,
Dutch East Indies and others will affect cur eccnoric circles for
a while and although the effect on our trade circle may be of
Tenporary nature, it absolutely should not be regarded lichtly.
However, since these vere anticipated for some time and the pre-
paration and .......... or cur governtent and her people........
............., we si.cerely believe that its disadvantages will
be soon overc.ne. Speaking coneretely, tho tr de en exchenge
relations with England and her possession have been steadily
diminishing since the cutbreak of the present Muropecn war. As
for the econonic relations vith America, our econoic dependence
upon America has been steadily diminishinc, toc, since the abro-
gation of the treaty of cormerce end navigntion en July 26, 1939
through the restriction of achinery, minerals and other exports.
Today, we are not dependent on lerice for  any things and have
built up an independent positi n. In addition to this, our
covernmont ..................(Record indistinet. Scems to be some-
thing ab ut strengthenin of exchange control.) Tus, cur covern-
ment, in anticipation of this situation, made such preparations
in every aspect of trade and exchange to enable ner to move in
whatever direcvion deslred. Thus, on July 26, the Hinister of
Finance pronulgated reguletions controlling foreigners and placing
the assets of the foreigners within our country under a license
s sten. As a retaliatory measure, this is only proper and approp-
riate. In other words, it is our action of self-defense against
the unreasonable attack, and dependin on the attitude of Engind
and America, this will be strengthened accordingly. Besides, it
is only proper that Hanchoukuo and the Government or the North
of China have fcllowed suit and carried our sinilar actions.
Accordin to what we have heard, the substance of Aterica's ac-
tion is very far reaching and various pclitical considaations
will be taken up in cnfcrcing it. It can be seen by the fact

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
age/6
that America in spite of her challenging attitude, has left some
room of elasticity that she is evoiding to bring about the worst
relations betveen Japan and her. Today, Japen does expect much
in such maneuverings (?), nor coulū she be paapered. Besides
having an erfective and appropriate policy capable of coping vith
what ever nae nade by the other parties, she vill follow her own
course and carry out her fixed policy in order to assert her rights
and eniance her record (?).
Hawaiian lusic
Theme song.
Japanese National Anthenm.

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
ation JLU4 Program
Date 7/30/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
News:
Announcement of the Imperial Naval Headquarters
rade yesterday in regard to the landing of Japanese Larines in
French Indo-China in accordance with the joint defense agree-
ment of French Indo-China concluded between France and Japan:
In acccrdance with the stipulaticns of the joint defense agree-
ment of French Indo-China, the J. panese marines, assigned to de-
fend French Indo-China, was carried out in a perfectly proper
man.er amidst the wholehearted c operation of the local authori-
ties and the wholehearted welcome of the residents and clearly
showed its arbitrative night (?) to the investing array of the
third powers in Southern Asia. The significance of the landing
of Japanese marines is to cope with the ever-changint world si-
tuation, create a new orde in East Asia, prepare against the
investing array of England, erica and Chun king against Japan,
Manchoukuo and China and also French Indo-China, ho are trying
to free the races of Asia, and establish the unshakable pcsition
of Japan. In other words, taking advantage of the European var,
the Chungking Governnent, which has lost its fighting power and
is on the ver e of dowmfall, has been maintaining its ebbing
life with the aid of England and America and the cther anti-Axis
nations. Furthermore, ever since the outbreak of the Russo-
Gernan war, she hes strengthened her dependence upon England and
America to the extent of even concluding a military alliance,
thus completely forming the anti-Japanese investing array, and
to threaten French Indo-China, hich is a part I the East Asia
mutual prosperity sphere, the Chungking troops on the north and
the British toops on the south have taken aggrecsive positions
and have been waiting for the opportunity. Uur trcops, assign.d
with thenission of coping with this ever-changing situation and
of preserving the security of the East Asia Mutual Prosperity
Sphere, reached a conplete understanding wint the French Govern-
ment and concluded an agreenent to derend French Indo-China joint-
ly. Thus, it vas decided yesterday to send troops to the north-
ern part of French Indo-China and to reinforce the troops station-
ed there, which has achieved great succe s in the destruction of
Eng land and America's route of support to Chiang and the impor-
tant places in the interior. fence, throucht the reinforce ent
novement of our troops in the northern part ci French Indo-China
which was conducted in a peaceful manner, the ulterior motive of
the hostile forces has been coapletely thwarted, thus establish-
ing an inpregnable cefense a uinst their encroachilent into South-
ern Asia.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
Page2
News from Saigon stat ing the completion of the detailed
agreerent between Haj. General Sumida and High Commissioner de
Coux (Detailed agreenent not made public.).
Tews fron Bangkok stating Jepan's action welconmed whole-
heartedly by Thailand as a rE ans of ridding herself fron the un-
just pressure of Great Britain.
News cr the Southern China Japanese fleet's arrival at
a "certain" place in French Indo-China. Welccned by the resi-
dents tier.
Description of uhe landing of Japan ese trcops at a "certain"
palce in French Indo-Chin on the morning or July 29 from trans-
ports convoyed by Japanese warslips.
Contents of the joint defense asreerent of French Indo-
China, signed by Japanese bassador to France Kato and Vice-
Premier Darlan, vas nade public yesterday by the information
bureau, as is follows: The Geverments or both Japan and France,
taking into consideration tie present international sitution,
have, through wireless reports, come to recognize the fact that
French Indo-Chia 's secruity and peace is being threatened.
Japan, thus, has proised to respect the rites and intererts of
France in East Asia, especially her sovereignity in French Indo-
China. On the other hand, France has pronised not to ccnclude
any kind of agreerent with any power that would directly or in-
directly aifect Japan politically, economically cr militarily;
in so far as French Indo-China, is concerned. Both countries,
thus, have agreed to cooperate militarily for the defense of
French Indo-China. This a reerent is efiective as long as the
conditions that motivated the c nclusion of this agreerent exist.
News of the editorials of the newspapers of Japan in re-
gard to the significance of the jeint defense agreerient of French
Indo-China.
News of the editorial of the London Times in regard to the
joint defense agreenent of French Indo-China. Regard the agree-
ment as having destroyed the balance of power in the Far East.
Wholly different opinion being voiced in the ar East.
News of Japan's act in French Indo-China being regarded as
justifiable in Shanghai.
I'ews ci the Dutch Last Indies Gevermment 's denial of the
reports stating her abrogation of the cil agrcemen. with Japan.
Ascertained by J panese representative in Batavia and reported
to the Japane se Governiient.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
age #3
News of the Japanese t: oops' operations in China: Chung-
king again raided by Japanese naval air force on July 28.
Other places also raided.
News of Russo-German war: Moscow again raided by German
air force on July 27. Considerable danage inflicted, according
to DiB report. Russian report claims only sight damage.
Conment on current events:
To talk on Dutch East Indies' rapprcchenent toward
England and America: (Talked about the action taken by the
Dutch East Indies in cnncert with those of England and merica.
Gave the history of the trade ralations between Japan and the
Dutch East Indies, how the Dutch East Indies became the most im-
portant source of supplies for Japan fron the state of Japan's
most important foreign market. Telked of the insicerity and
misunderstanding of the Dutch East Indies toward Japan's aim and
intention, resultin in the termination of the trade agr ement.
Rentioned the real influence behind such attitude cf the Dutch
East Indies as England and Aneri. Menticned the enforcerent
of similar retaliatory :easures as those exucuted against Eng-
land and America for t is reason).
Donestic news from Kuamoto, Kagoshina, lagasaki, Fukuoka
Saga Prefectures:
of
News/albums being sent to the soldiers at the front as
comfort bags. News of low birth rate of a certain village.
News of a Buddhist Festival (bon odori). Hews of requiem rass
for Lt. Oyama. News of Fagasari's bon festival. Fews of favor-
able production of lily bulbs. To be sent to America. I'ews
of the observation of sea holiday at Hakata.
Talk "Joint Defense Agreerent of French Indo-China", by
Inosuke uruno, president of Donei Fews A ency: Japanese resi-
dents abroad, the eyes or the world, at present, are focu ed on
Southeastern Asia. The reason is the imperial trcops have march-
ed into Irench Indo-China fran the sea, the land and the air.
Please picture in your minds the following: narely, a squadron
of silver wings covering the sky of the South Seas, the sun
burnt faces of the Japanese o ficers and men, the navy flag
fluttering on the Japanese warships, and the Chinese of Annan
happily welcoming the Japanese troops. Today, for the sake of
the creation of a new order in Etst Asia, we have taken & great
step, and the heart of the nation is thu: ping with joy. Tow,
England and America, confused by the French Indo-China-Japan
collaboration, sudenly anncunced the freezing of Japanese assets

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
Page#4
in the respective country on July 27. Furthermore, England also
notified the abrogation of her trade agreements wi th Japan.
Keeping in step with these two nations, the Dutch East Indies,
too, announced the freezing of Japanese assets in the Indies
and the suspension of her oil agreerent vith Japan. In view
of the past trend of relationship between ngland end America and
Japan, this anti-Japanese oppression of this group is nothing to
be surprised at. As for our country, she was fully prepared.
As for our country, who regards herself as the leader of East
Acia, she courageously conducted the reinforcerient of her troops
in French Indo-China in accordance with the joint defense agree-
ment of French Indo-China and with the voluntary understanding
of the Government of France. Hence, even if the third powers
should put up a stubborn resistance (?), Jay n is determined to
yield not an inch, but assert the right of self-defense of East
Asia. In order to explain to you the positicn of Japan toward
French Indo-China and the significance of the current action, I
would like to corment on the raletions between the two countries,
which had made a voluntary progress ever since the close of last
year. In other words, through the conclusion of the atsuoka-
Andre (phonetic) areenent on August 30,1940, in Tokyo, the govern-
ment of France ageed to supply our country vith the necessary
military and econcric facilities as a means of extending wliole-
hearted cooperation toward Japan's accorplishient of the China
incident and creation of a new order in East Asia. In accord-
ance with this agreeent, our country carried out the peaceful
invasion of the Japanese troops into the northern part of French
Indo-China on September 23, 1940. Then, with the outbreak of
the border dispute between Thailand and French Indo-China during
the early part of this year, our country, sensing her respon-
sibility as the stabilizing power of East Asia, actirely under-
took the role of peace-naker. Because she unselfishly served in
the role of peace-raer, the signing of the historic peace agree-
nent between Thailand and French Indo-China, as you all know,
was held in Tokyo on Harch 21 of this year. Then, on May 6, an
econonic agreernt was conclued between Japan nd Prench Indo-
China, making the relations between Japan and French Indo-China
closer day by day. As indicated by these facts, our country's
attitude toward French Indc-Cina has alvays been peaceful and
fully repected the sovereignty of France. Thus, it is needless
to say that our country has no territorial ambition against
French Indo-China. Instead, our country has served to preserve
the ter itorial integrity of French Indo-China, which lot the
direct protection of her nothe. country, France, through the
European war. However, recently it became gradually clear that
the Chungking Government, which has been thrashed severely by
the Japanese troops, perturbed by the sound developent of the
Nanking Governnent, headed by Wang Ching-wei, has induced Eng-
land and America as well as the Dutch East Indies to forn an

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
age #5
anti-Japanese bloc and, at the same time, schered with the De-
Gaullists in French Indo-China to make an arned invasion of
French Indo-China. To prove this fect, there is a report re-
porting the violation of the border by the troops of Chungking
and on July 23 or 24 another report reporting that England has
started sending her native trcons toward the bcrder with the
aim or invading French Indo-China from the south. (Record in-
distinct.) 3esides concentrating her troops alcng the border
of Halay, England concluded a Military agreeltnt with Chung-
king and also concentrated a large force along the border of
Burma, this threatening Thailand and French Indo-China. Besides,,
not only is French Indo-China always being threatened by the act-
ivities of the anti-Japanese Chungiing Govern ent and the scheme
of ............. to cause an internal confusion and use French
Indo-China as for their deferse, but t.ere are not a few De Gaul-
lists with French Indo-China, who, nisunderstanding the true
motive of Japan and thinking that rench Indo-China might be
aggressed, sooner or later, by Japan's arned forces, are acting
in concert vith England and inerica and malicicusly scheming to
aggravate the an-Japanese senuinent within rench Indo-China.
Needless to say, the threat against the security of Erench Indo-
China is a great ccncern of Japan, which cannot be overlcoked.
Hence, cur country, through our bassador in France, negotiated
with the Vichy Governient emidst a very friendly atmosphere and
finally succeaded in reaching an understandin in regard to the
joint defense of French Indo-China with the Vichy Governient on
July 27, which led to the signing: of the joint defense agreement
on July 29. In this agreerent, the mutual point of view of both
countries to the effect that the security of Japan as well as the
whole of East Asia is threatened in the event the secrri y of 
French Indo-China is threatened is recognized. In cther iords,
the gist of this afreenent is the preservation of the territorial
integrity of French Indo-China. In other vords, the cist of this
agreenent is that Japan promises to preserve the territorial in-
tegrity of French Indo-China end respect the sovereignty of France
in French Indo-China in returning the prorise of France that she
will not conclude any kind of agree. ent with the third powers
that would affect Japan in so far as French Indo-China is con-
cerned. The promise of ared cooperation in regard to rench
Indo-China was conclued under the solern ........... of Japan.
Thus, it is stated in this agree ent that the agreernent wiil be
effective as long as the conditions which motivated the conclu-
sion of this agreenent exist, proving that Japan's intention is
peaceful and defensive to the end. Revertheless, England and
Anerica as well as the Dutch East Indies, mistaking the peace-
ful intention of Japan and considering thc reinforcenent of the
Japanese troops in French Indo-China as her first agressive
step in the south, have forred an anti-Japanese bloc and strength-
ened their economic oppression, as mentioned above.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
age 6
However, Japanese residents abroad, rest at ease, for Japan ab-
solutely is not a country that would be discouraged by such
things. As I have previously stated, we have fully anticipated
this for a long ti e and have accordingly prepared for it. Ex-
cepting for the minirum amount absolutely necessary, we have
withdrawn the rest of our assest from merica. Even in regard
to our trade vi th England, it already had been rerely a scrap
of paper due to the rigid war time restrictions of England.
Hence, it can be said tiat we will not be affected. (Record in-
distinct.) However, from a politicel point oi view, Japen must
regard with importance such provocative clique fored by England
and America. As a retaliat ary mea sure, our cove mment irmediate-
ly on July 28 proiulgated the restrictions controlling the trans-
actions which foreigners, and froze the assets oi subjects of the
nat ions concerned witnin Japan, and the restrictions have the
elasticity of being able to be enforced according to the future
actions of England, erica and the Dutch East Indies. In other
words, the conclusion of the jeint defense agreenent of French
Indo-China and its subse uent strengthening of ccoperation in
Southern asia is based on J:pan's fixed policy -- that of es-
tablishing a greater East Asia utual Prospe. ity Sphere and of
indicating the course of stability to the world, which is suffer-
ing a great upheaval, through it. Thus, to term this as Japan's
southward invasion is ................ If there is any nation
that atteapts to obstruct Japan's fixed policy vith an unreason-
able oppressive schene based on neurotic hallucination, there is
no reason to show any consideration toward her, vhomever she may
be. Our nation unitedly have faith (?) in this fixed policy and
is deterrined all the more to follow its course. Japanese resi-
dents abrcad, don't be swayed by the false propaganda of England
and Arerica, but please watch the growth of the national effort
to accomplish cur country's noble ideal with composure, Of course
it is only proper that we cceive the onpression of the naticns
attemptin to obstruct the grat project of creat ing a new order
in East sia. I believe that you, too, will be confronted with
various hardships. There nay be instances in which the projects
in which 'ou have spent half of your life for the creation of an
overseas Japan may mect the fate of destruction (?), but even
at this time vhile I an talking to you over the radio, our fellow
county in continental China are risking their life fer our coun-
try along a battle frent to times loncer than thet of the Russo-
Ger an war. With this in mind, it is needless to mention that
we, who are living at hone, should renew our natienal determina-
tion, and I sincerely hope that you, Japanese residents abroad,
too, having been sorn as Japanese, will calmly watch the noble
figure of Japan, vhich is overcoming every internal and external
difficulty and enhancing the prosperity of the Inperial house-
hold, wi th a full ar bition, While diligently pursuing your res-
pcctive occupation.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
ion JLU4 Program
e 7/31/41
requency 17795 Kilocycles
Japanese Iusic
News:
News of the landing of Japanese trcops at Saigon.
Lt. General Shojiro Iida named supreme commander. Personal
history: Native of Yamaguchi Prefecture. Member of the 20th
graduating class of the military academy. Graduated fror: War
college in 19l5. Then, sent to Europe to study military tactics.
Assigned to duty with the general staff of a certain division in
1930. Later, appointed as director of harbor affairs (?) bureau.
Sent to the frant in 1938. Appointed corrmender of a certain div-
ision upon his return. Returned to the front again as detach-
ment conmander in 1939, which post he held till today.
News from Saigon reporting the landin: of Japanese troops.
Lt. Gen. Shojiro Ikda greeted by representatives fo the Governor-
general of Cochin-China, the chief of staf. of the Indo-China
army, and the comander-in-chief of the French Indo-China fleet.
Description of the landing scene.
Hews fron Saigon reporting Haj. Gen. Suida's interview
with newspapers reporters: "I have done three great works dur-
ing the past year. The first is the conclusion of the peace
treaty, the second is the stopping of all var materials destined
for Chungking and the third is the landing of the Japanese troops.
Thus, I have nothing more to do."
News fron Saigon reporting the request of Consul-General
: incda, asking the head of Cochin-China to deport the 12 rep-
resentatives of Chun king, who had been stubbornly carrying on
anti-Japanese moveent. Request accepted in full.
Hews from Saigon reporting a report that Chiang has issued
an order for the destruetion of all roads and bridges that are
30 kiloeters away fron the bcrder of French Indo-China, in view
of the landing of Japanese troops.
News from Thei reporting that Thai will renain neutral.
News from Batavia reporting the discussion carried on be-
tween Bank of Java and Yokohane Specie Bank for the reconsidera-
tion of Dutch East Indies' action.
Tews of naval air force's 25th raid of Chungking.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
#2
News of Japanese troops' operation in the regions south
of Shuyo in Hupeh Province. Japanese troops also operating in
the regions north of Jisho in Hupeh Province.
News of the 16th meeting of the corrittee in charge of
mobilization'of production and resources, held today at the
prenier's resident.
News of the return of the airplane that transported the
Japanese delegation to Saigon. (Delegation headed by Makoto
Yano. Purpose is to settle the border between Thailand and
French Indo-Chine). Another plane of the sane type to leave
Yokohama for Saigon.
Kews of Jepanese-Italian convival gathering held at a cer-
tain theater in Kome.
News fron Moscow re ortin the arrival of Hopkins, head
of the lend-lease bureau, on July 30. Purpose is to discuss
America's aid.
Hews fron London reportins the request of the British
Gevernment, asking the Government of Iran to crder all Gerrans
to leave the country. Request rejected by Iran in crder to main-
tain her neutrality.
News of the plan of the Ger an ninister to Bclivia, who
has been ordered to leuve tie country b" the Bolivian Govern-
ment, to visit Japan. To leave Valparaiso on August 1 on board
a Japanese steamer.
Hews of the Tu so-Geren war: Ger an troops reportedly
near Leningrad and Mussians reportedly preparing evacuation of
the city, According to Soviet Russia, 1,500,000 German troops
have been illed and 3,000 Gerian planes and 5,000 German tanks
have been destroyed to date. According to Gernan report, 10,000
nore Russians were captured on July 30 near the Dnestr River.
Japanese Lusie
Co:-ent on Current Events:
To talk on the joint defense agreenent of French
Indo-Chine and the landing cf Jupanese trcops: With the reach-
ing of an understanding between Japan's deterrination to main-
tain the peace an stability or East Asia at all cost and the
sincerity of rance to cooperate vith Japan, the signing of the
joint defense agree ert of French Indo-China was successfully
concluded at Vichy cn July 29th.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
ge /3
By the fact that it becane effective irmediately without any ex-
change of ratifications, we can see the urgency of its contents.
In fact, this agreenent was concluded to cope vith the objective
situation, which, for the sake of peace of East Asia and from the
stand point cf saf-defense of both Japan and France, cannot be
neglected for even a day. Fundamentally, its spirit, thus, is
sinilar to that of the tripartite agreeent. Its interest and
text and practicel ................. are all the crystallization
of the word "peece". New, the provisions of the agreement con-
cluded between Japan and France are (1) to consider that the sec-
urity of Japan as well as East sia is being threatened in the
event the security of French Indo-China is threatened and (2) to
respect the interests of France in Last Asia, especially the in-
tegrity of French Indo-China and the sovereign rights of France
in French Indo-China, in such en event. In the  ir st instance,
it means that the French Government has voluntarily recornized
Japan's right oi leadership in East sia and that French Indo-
China is a member of the East Asia Mutual Prosperity Bloc. In
The second instance, France' recognition of the inseparable re-
lations between French Indo-China and the new crder of East Asia
does away with all fears in regard to her sovereignty in French
Indo-China and the integrity of French Indo-China. Taking ad-
vantage of the predicament of defeated France, England is schem-
ing to a. nex Syric and other colonial possessions of France and
at a tine when Aierica, too, is attemptin to secretly take part
in this scheme, it is exactly as stated by the Vichy Government
that France vith her present strength cannot be expected to pre-
serve the integrity of French Indo-China. Through this agree-
nent, Japan has signiried her deterrination to wipe away such
uneasiness and fear oi France at least in East Asia. Thus, the
agreement has arragned for the joint rilitary action of Japan
and France in regard to the defense of French Indo-China. As a
result, Japanese marines were landeo in French Indo-China on
July 29. As you already know, some Japanese troops have been
stationed in the northern part of French Indo-China ever since
last August throught the Hatsuoka-Andre (phonetic) agreement.
As was enticned at that ti.e, the purpose of th is was to cut off
the routes through which war materials had been persistently sent
to Chiang Lai-shek. Thus, this had been a great factor contri-
buting toward the Ereat achieveent cf the Japanese troops in its
southern operations and, at the s e tirx, it is an indication of
the cooperaticn of France and the French Indo-China authorities
toward Japan's disposition of the China incident. Since then,
the situation has been changing day by day and with the develop-
rent of the Russo-German war raking the defeat of Soviet Russia
imminent, England and Chungkin: raised theri banner of opposition
against the Vichy Goverr ent and, joining hands with the

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
ge/
De Gaullists, strengthened their investing position against
French Indo-China. Furthermore, with Anerica, too, suprorting
this scheme, a dangercur situation was thus brought about. This
certainly is a threat against French Indo-China. At thc sare
time, behind this scheme also is a plan to sclidify the encircle-
ment novement against Japan and be prepared for the dowmfall of
Soviet Russia. This certainly is a threat against Japan. Thus,
Japan and France concluded an agreement to join hands and march
forward together for the security of each end for the establish-
nent of peace in East Asia. Hovever, in view of the fact that
the action to invade Irench Indo-China : s been centered primari-
1y in the southern part of French Indo-China, the action taken
by our troops rust be said to be a very eppropriate one. At the
same time, it is only proper for the Vic'y Government, which is
being confronted with unjust pressure in her atteiipt to preserve
her colonial settlerent, to rea rd the conclusion of a joint de-
fense agreelent with Japan as most advantageous and beneficial.
Besides, froi the stand point of reason, it is cleer that France
which is strengthening her cooperation with the axis powers in
Europe, has baken the best course that could be taken in East
Asia and also the wisest reasure. Thus was brought about the
epochal land ing of the Japanese troops in the southern part of
Frenoh Indo-China. However, we cannot help but think of the con-
dition at the time of the landing of the Japanese troops in the
northern part of French Indo-China, which is still fresh in our
ninds. As in te present instance, that action too, was under-
taken wi th the complete understanding of the French Government.
In spite of this, varicus conflicts unfortunately, broke out at
several places due to the in consistercy of the French Indo-China
authorities, thus causin ccnsiderable casualties on both sides.
However, this ti.e, our troops were landed without any bloodshed
and amidst a great welcoie. It certainly would not be an ex-
aggeration to clain that it was he vorld's grandest sight. By
this fact alone, it can be seen how deep the understanding, con-
fidence and friendliness of the France and the French Indo-China
authorities was in comection with the Japcnese trcops's landing.
Nevertheloss, conderning Japan's action as an aggression of Prench
Indo-China and mistaking it as a thrcat against the regions of
South Pacific, Englan , Aterica and Dutch East Indies suddenly
retaliated with econoric oppressive rieasures. This certainly
must be terned a hallucination. (Reccrd indis inct) If there
had been no schcme of the third powers to aggress against French
Indo-China, the landing of the Japanese troops in Southern Fronch
Indo-China would not have taken place. The reasen is th at
French Indo-China would not be threatened and Japen, subsequent-
ly, would not feel uneasy. Furthernore, we wonder what the signi-
ficance of 3ritain's invasion of Syria is and what the meaning of
Arericds occupation of Iceland.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
ge#5
If these are to be nermitted by the moral lawas of the world as
matters of life and death to Englend and Anerica, we are at a
loss to find out why the landing of the Japanese troops in French
Indo-China, which has been cerried out in accordance with the
agreement concluded between France and Japan fairly and e ace-
fully to cope with the crisis of French Indo-China, which is si-
tuated within the sphere of East Asia, is wrong. To establish
peace throughout East sia, promote the prosperity of the races
of East sia and create a new order with a pronising future is
the mission assigned to our country by the noral laws and is
alc God's will. That Japan's action will overcame all difficul-
ties that lie in its path and narch toward its conviction is
indicated by her deterrmination, and we cann:t help but praise
Japan's pious and flexible intention. Through the joint defense
of French Indo-China, the schene of England and America to ob-
struct our peaceful debouchlent has been thwarted and Chungking's
.............(Reccrd indistinct) Besides, as runored though-
out the world, it will contribute greatly toward the security of
Thailand, too. When we ccnsider how Anerica obtained bases in
Greenland and occupied Iceland and how England took Syria from
France, we can see how honorable and honest the motive and aim
of our country's current move is.(Recorder's note: Carrier
was off the air from 0802 to 0808.)
Japanese ILusic
Talk on the history of Shogi (Japanese Chess by Yoshio
Kirura, a shogi expert.
Tomorrow's progren
There Sone.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.92)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
$6
DIRECTOR
Federal Bureau of Javestigation
π
Anited States Department of Justire
那ashington,D.U.
DCR
July 18, 1941
PERSONAL AND 
1941
DUTSION
JUL 17 1941
Honoraßle Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
MR.
Department of State
BERLE
894.70/47
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Berle:
UJ..
I am enclosing herewith transcripts
of Japanese broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan, for June
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, 1941.
The above are being forwarded as of
possible interest to the State Department.
Sincerely yours,
. L . 20oover
14.76
Enclosure
BY SPECIAL MESSENG
Fe c.
JUL 1 9 1941
PS/A
DECLASSIFIED
C
Justice Department Gendelnes 1-27-1884
By RICF
NARS, Date 5.46: 1984

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
tation JZK Program
Date 5/3/41
Fr.quency 15160 Kilocycles
Japanese Music (Old Style)
Announcer:ent of Broadcast
Jazz -- Japanese Style /Terrible/
Japanese Music
Now we will present news in Japanese
/Digest/ Tells of bonbing of Chungking end various
other China operctions.
Nes about coal production
News cbout the Hanling Governient /very indistinet/
News or the conversations betveon Mussolini, Cavallero,
Ciano, /and Hitler/ News of Crete end Syria, "If the English
bomb Syria, the French will at once take independent action".
End of Japanese News
Western music - singing - pretty bad.
Now we will explain some of the problens.
Corments on Current Evonts:
"Tho ........ of our nevy, which is marching to-
ward the crestion of a grecter East Asia mutual prospority sphere."
Todey, the vorld is experioncing & poriod of civil war with the
axis powers, vho cre desiring to croato a ndw vorld order; and the
netions, ho are striving to proserve the old world order, in a
three cornered strucglo. The activitics of tho axis powers --
namely, Germany cnd Italy -- in Europo cre progressint splondidly
and with the dofonse of Crote craduclly crumbling before tho on-
slaucht of the axis povors, the dofect of the status quo group in
the Moditerrenean Soe und the Fear East is but c mattor of timo
now. On the other hond, our country, acting in conjunotion' vith
Germany cnd Italy's ettorpt to croato c nov order in Europo, is
in the midst or or atine  ne order in Aa ic -- thct is, doing
avay vith tho dopendonce on England cnd imorice and establishing
a vory solf-sufficient footin in Asia. In other vords, our
country is uxternclly pushing toward tho creation of a groator
East Asie mutual prospority sphore  nd is intornally strivine for
the ostablishaont of a super national defonse. Since tho out-
break of tho curront incident, our navy has achieved creet rosults
and is at prosent :dvencin toix rd the coul of thoir attack. Thus
the Chungking Govorm ont in in c stato of ..disintorgrationf)..

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.97)
Page2
Now, I would like to comment on the progress mede during the past
five months by our navy, which cs m.de public on May 21 by the
press section of tho Inperial Havel Headcuarters. That is, in
spite of the hot weather, our navel detachments in North China,
the Yangtze River and the Pearl River are all pleying an import-
ant part in the inspection of junis, the guarding of the water
routes and the mopping up of the Chi ese remnants. Besides, the
Greater Irt of our navy is blockading the entire China coast,
thus seeling up important ports and stoppong enemy transportation
of materials.  Besides, the Conmander-in-Chief of the Japanese
fleet in Chim waters has repeatedly made cleer our Navy's intention
..........end our Navy, thus, is blockins the third powers' attempt
to send raterial cid to Chicng Hai-shek. Furthermore, our Navy
in South China lended & detachment on February 4th to destroy the
Koshu route, which had beon used to transport materials to the
Chinese troops, cnd in cooperation with the crmy, they took part
in many other operations to dectroy the supply route of Chungking.
Meanwhile, the naval cir force, in conjunction with the operations
of the military cir force, repeatedly raided Chungking, Chengtu,
and other places, completely dostroying enemy military establish-
ments. The daneges inilicted by the Japenese cir force have
been so great that it has becono imnossible for the Chinese to
reorgenize their air force. Furthernore, with the reopening of
the Burmc route, our cir force imedietely bombed and destroyed
the bridces clone the route, thus completely stopping traffic.
Bosides, the number of mines destroyed by our navy since the be-
cinning of this yoar totalled 533, bring up tho total number of
nines destroyed durin this incident to 6,151. The number of
onemy planes destroyed was 121, bringing up the totel to 2049.
Vith such rosults cchieved by our navy, our army, too, has achieved
croct results in cll of hor opations, thus declin & freat blow
to the onomy. Furthermore, be inning vith the conelusion of the
agrporont botvoon French Indo-China end Japan, the fate of Chung-
king ro ime .............becauso of hor trouble with tho communist
crry, hor financicl difficulties, hor diploctic cifficulties
ind her interncl dissonsion. Yot, n land end imorica ero still
paopacendizing thoir cid to Chiang. I sey propagendizing beccuse
their cid hes brought cbout no rosult. Liorict hes decided to
lond 10,000,000 worth of netoria1s to China, besides 800 Anor-
ican made planos for the reorganization of the Chinose cir force.
Sho has evon sont somo military oxperts to Chungking to cssist in
this roorgcnization of tho Chinoso air forco, but I would like
to ask Amorica how she is oin, to send (?) thoso natoricls.
As I havo oxplinod proviously, she must teko into consideration
the blockado ostablished by our mavy clong the Chine cocst.
After cll, cid tox rd Chiane only pgrr:vatos the unoesinoss in
East Asia end prolongs tho sufforpincs of the Chineso pcople.
Thorofore, our Havy is dutornined to block cll such cid to Chiang.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 3
In his broedcast entitled, "The Spirit of Our Navy", made on
Navy Day, Captain Hirai, director of the press section of the
Imperial Naval Headcuarters, stated as follo's: "Besides en-
geging in the operetions in the veters clong the Cine Coast
with about two hundred large and small vessels, our navy, today
is reconstructing three hundred other ships cnd the bases neces-
sary for these shins in order to be prepcred in the vaters of
the Western Pecific and this state of preparedness certainly is
unprecedented in the history of our country. These necessary
bases have alrecdy been completely fortified and cre hcrboring
planes end larce ships. Thus, We cre in e position to pulverize
any nation that dcres to chalienge us. Dosides, the strength of
the Irperial Havy's cir force now totals 4, Ooo planes and our
cir force is now moulding e speciel certain death tactic. Thus,
ve are prepared for any erergency." Thus, he nade clear that our
Navy, which is the stabilizing power in the Jestern Pacific, is
fully prepared for any emerpenoy. No matter how much the Chung-
king Covernment nay strua le, her dowmfell is now but a metter of
time in view of the irprecnoble preperation of our Navy.
Music -- vrious kinds
Japc.nese liationcl inthen

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Program
Date 6/4/41
Frequency 15l60 Kilocycles
Music ..... Japanese
Naniwabushi by Taro Tamagawa
News:
Japanese naval air force yesterday raided the
railroad line connecting Chungking With Konmin, destroying the
bridge at Hokuzanko (name of river), according to a conmunique
issued by the press section of the Jpanese fleet in South China
yesterday, June 3rd.
According to a courunique issued by the press section
of the Japanese fleot in Central Chine, our Japanese naval air
force yesterday morning raided Kichiya in Kiangsi Province,
damaging onomy air ficld and military establishments nearby.
About 10,000 Chinese ronmants were discovered hiding
in the mountains in the western pert of Shansi Province by our
Japanese troops, who immediately surrounded them from four sides.
Thus, the enemy reportedly is facing complete annihilation.
(Record indistinct) Something about Chinese officers
being killed and captured in Shansi Province, and Chinese troops
retreatinc in confusion, as tho onslaught of the Japanese troops
overtook them.
(Nanking)--Mej. Gon. Shihachi (?) cormander of our ox-
peditionary force in China, claiming that there absolutoly will
be no diroct negotiation for posce botween Chungking and Japan,
stated as follows: "On tho cc asion of volcoming this most favor-
ablo opportunity to freo Asia, and when somo of tho races that
have awakoned in East Asia aro marching toward the creation of
an Asis for tho Asiatics, tho Chungking Government, not roalizing
this fact, is not only playing all the moro into tho hands Eng-
land end Americe, but is stirring up more anti-Japanose foeling
among its people. This is indood vory rogrotablo. Our Govorn-
mont's policy is ..........and tho reduction of tho anti-Japaneso
Governmont. This established policy will never bo changed in tho
future. For tho seko of construction, wo will carry out tho wish-
os of our Emporor to tho limit and for tho volfare of the masses:
We will enduro thinas of great military disadvantage. Therefore,
I sinceroly hope that tho masses vill como to understand this
sincerity on our part and cooperato in the esteblishment of har-
mony botwoen Japan and Chine.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2
(Record indistinct) -- Something about a Prof. Kawahara,
who gathered together about thirty Chinese students, who were
forced to give up schooling because of the war, and began teach-
ing them the medical profession. Because of his effort, the Nan-
king Government has seen fit to raise the standard of his school
to that of a medical school. This is tho first medical school to
be operated by a Japanese and its new school term will be started
from this September. (By the talk, the schcol seems to be situ-
ated in Shanghai.)
Two years have already passed since the conclusion or
the treaty with Germany and durin that tire, both countries have
been exchanging data on medical science. To further wnhance the
medical science of Germany and Japan and to conply vith the demand
that scholars should be exchanged betwoen the two countries, Japan
has decided to send Prof. Toshio Sakai of Keijo Imperial Univer-
sity, Prof. Joji Ito, of Kyushu Imperial University and Prof.
Kanichi Kawao (?) of Nagoya Iedical College to Cermany as the
first group of exchange scholars. They ero expected to sail for
Germany shortly.
(Record Indistinct)--Something about Thai deciding to
station an agent in Japan to strengthen the air traffic between
Japan and Thailand.
A ....... census vill be undertaken throughout Japan
as of June l0th. This census is being taken to gather matorial
of reference for the mebilization of labor. In tho past, this
consus was takon overy threo years, but it has now been decided
to take it overy yoar. Bosides, in tho past, this consus was
restricted to factories, mines and othor similar fiolds, but
storos, offices and other sirilar fiolds will also bo includod
from this year.
(Berlin)--Corman high authorities have refused to
comment on the Dronner Fass conferonce, but neutral sources are
regarding that tho cooporation of Spain and Portugal had benn
primarily disoussod at this conforenco. (Rucord indistinct).
Gormany will attack Cibraltar to  ain complote control of the
Nediterrancan Soa. At tho semo tino, (Record indistinet)
(something to tho offoct that thoso actions being nocessary to
shut off the broad route  of England and Amorice.)
In regard to this conforonce, tho Hochi Shimbun stated
as follows: "Gormany .........that Anurica's oxecution of her
convoy pan will have a eroat effect on Gormany's execution of hor
war against England, in viow of the fect that e Gorman-American
war will aggravate tho European war into a world war, it is ob-
vious that sho will havo to mako considorablo preparations for
hor fight against Amorice.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
It is not hard to imagine that an American ship will be ......
in view of ..........Besides, it cen be foreseen thet the reletions
between Germany-Italy and Soviet Russia will be definitely settled
in some form. Thus, the Brenner Pass conference is being regared
with interest as heving some connection with the development of the
war and the Atlantic." The Asahi Shimbun steted: "With America's
movement in the Atlantic becoming very clear, it is only proper
for Germany and Italy to devise reans to cope vith every emergency.
Therefore, it would not be a mistake to regard that not only matters
pertaining to Europe, but to the world were discussod at the Brenner
Pass conference." The Yomiuri Shimbun stated that the purpose of
the Brenner Pass conference was to strengthen the axis diplomatic
power and connocted it with the reletions with America, France,
Turkey and the Soviet.
According to a ronort form Beyrouth, an anti-British
movement has flared up in Eypt because of the sreet success of
Germany in Crete. (Record indistinct)
(Rome)--In an editorial on tho Bronner Pass conference,
the Giornalo d'Italia lauded the stroncth of the axis powors, as
follows: "The conferonce botween Iussolini cnd Hitler is in itself
an action. Bosidos discussing the rosults achieved by Gormany
and Italy to date, nettors rogerding future developnents and re-
construction plans woro probebly discussed in the conferonce.
England is dosperately callin: for Amorica's cid, but tho axis
powers are opposing this vith the military and oconomic reserves(?)
of not only Europo but of the vorld. They also have the actual
strongth to attaclk and dofend as they please. "
(Borlin) --The interviow between the Germen foreign
affairs authoritios and roportors after tho ........of Croto
campaign was played up in tre vurious nowspapors of Germany. The
........(namo of paper) stated us follows: "It has reer reported
that British troops entered Barhdad and concluded an armistice
with Iraq, but (record indistinct). The........troops' action
against Syris has been roportod in various menner, but Darlan has
stated that Franco vill tako action if Britains attack, thus ro-
vealing France's attitude. Tho Istanbul roport tlet German troops
have landed in Franco is croundless. Tho roport of Cerman troeps'
landing in Croonland, which is in tho neighboring vators of America
.........the scope of news roporting and thero seons to be some
in Amorica who are urcing tho oxccution of morchant ship cnnvoy,
but in regard to this, Gormany's policy is, as steted by Admiral
Raoder, nothing other than to sink such ships. Taking advantago
of this situation (?) tho oconomic rolations of Gormany, Italy and
Japan will bo mado closer and moro appropriate."

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
age #4
According to a dispatch from London, the newspapers
are ctiticizing the Government's blunder in the Crete campaign.
(Record indistinct)
(Vichy)--Anti-British sentiment in Frence is becoming
acute due to the British troops' attack on Syria and the British
warships' cepture of French ships. (Record indistinct). Some-
thing about Petain conferring with Jeygand for two hours and the
Brenner Pass conference being held in view of France's anti-
British attitude.
According to a dispatch fron Beyrouth, French authori-
ties in Beyrouth today refuted the report that Cerman troops hed
landed In Syria, as follows: "Britain has broadcast that the
French ship ..........left Larseilles and arrived at Beyrouth
with about 5o0 German soldiers and a similar broadcast was rade
in New York to the effect that Gernan mechanized troops have
been landed in Latakie, but both broadcasts are groundless.
British have rade such propaganda to justify their attack on Syria."
This is somewhat similar to the announcenent made by t he German
High Cormand.
According to a dispatch from Perlin released by the
German High Cormand, the danases inflicted upon the British ship-
ping by the Gerren navy and the air force are mounting considerable
and the total number of tonnage to date is 746, 000 tons. Of these
479,000 tons were destroyed by Gerran submarines, 215,000 tons
by German air force and the rest was destroyed by the German Navy.
Besides, the Cernan air force destroyed 5 British ships, totalling
21, ooo tons, off the east coast of England and arove eway five
other British ships. Another squadron raided .......and
(two harbors.)
According to a conmunique released by tho Italien High
Command on June 3rd, Italian troops ere concentrating their attack
on Tobruk end tho strength of the Dritish troops thore is weakon-
ing day by day. Besides, the loss of British ships during the
past 45 days totels 50,000 tons, hile a sinilar nr:her of ton-
nago of British ships has also boon damaged.
According to a dispatch from Porlin(?), tho British
air force raided tho northern part of Germany on the morning of
Juno 4th, and oven appcarec ovor Berlin, but thrce of the British
planos were shot down by Gorran enti-aircreft cuns.
Comments on Current vents:

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
Page#5
Talk on "Sinking of British transports and ......"
In his fire-side chat on May 27, Fresident Roosevelt stated that
the total tonnace of British ships sunk by Germany to date, frank-
ly speaking, is three tines the construction capacity of Great
Britain and two times the combined tonnage of British and American
ships. Thus he revealed the sea threat before the nation and
claimed that America should fight for the freedom of the sea. He
also explained the reasons why America should assist England by
all means. Besides, these roasons to justify America's partici-
pation in the war, the President mentioned the aggression of West-
ern Hemisphere. However, as I have stated in one of my previous
talks,.........are nct thinking of such thing. Therefore, it is
not true. However, the number of British ships sunk is trerendous
and it is true that the combined construction capacity of Great
Britein and Americe cannot wake up for these sunken ships. That
President Roosevolt should make such an earnest and pathetic appoal
indicates the oxtent of the crisis that is being confronted today
by the British shipping. Today, I would like to comment upon this.
Ever since the outbroak of the war in Soptember, 1939, the ships of
Britain, the groat merchat narine nation, that hed commanded the
seas of the world and that had boasted thet the sun nevor sets
on British soil, to indicate the greatness of her donain, beeame
tho prey for German submarines and air planes and boginning with
the 40,O00 tons liner Empress of Britain, British ships began
disappoaring one after tho other to tho bottom of the sea. In
rogard to this, Creat Britein very conservativoly e nounced that
1,005 ships, totalling 4,734, 692 tons, had boon sunk. On the
other hand, Gormany announcod that 12,171; O00 tons of British
ships have boon sunk up till April. Thus, the oxistonce of a
great difforenco in the two figures can bc seon. This is oxactly
liko tho great difforonce existing in the figures announeed by
Japan and Chungking in rogard to tho nunibor of Chinose planos dos-
troyod by tho Japanoso troops. This is inovitahlo becauso ono
side, in trying to mako public a ∞ nsorvative figure, doos not
give tho truo amount, whilo the other cido nakes public a truo
report. Thorofore, vo should not dopond soluy on tho ruport of
ono sido-- that is, in this caso, cast asido British announco-
ment and dopend upon Cornany's report, becauso it cannot be doniod
that somo jugclins of figures havo boen made in England's roport.
This will becomo clpar es you liston to the rest of my talk. Be-
fore tho outbroakt of the wer; Great Britain possossed one-third
of tho world's tonnago of 68,000,000:-- that is, about 22,000,000
tons. After the outbroak of tho war, Great Britain took by force
about 8,0oo,0oo tons of ships from tho dofoatod nations, such as
Norway, Holiand, Franco, Denmfark and Bolgium. In addition to
this, she constructod about 80,ooo tons of ships aftor tho out-
break and also reccived about 80,c00 sons from other countrios.
If all these wore added, tho total number tonnago passossed by
Groat Britain wes about 32,c00,00o tons /something wrong here/.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #6
Thus, if she had 1ost only 4,734,692 tons out of this 32,000,000,
as announced by her, she should not be so greatly affected and
there is no need for America to desperately try to aid her. In
other words, the figures made public by Great Britain are ......
Now, let me present you with a fact, for I think it is only proper
to do so. According to a survey made in the latter part of January
of this year, the total number of tonnage lost by Great Britain
since the outbreak in September of 1939 was 7,670,000 tons, which
is about 3,000,000 tons above the figure announced by Great Britain.
Furthermore, since Hitler stated on Japuary 3l of this year that
Germany wili intensify her attack on British shipping, the loss
of British ships during the past months inevitably must have in-
creased. For example, including the sinking of 300, 000 tons of
ships loaded with British troops retreating from Crete, about
1,2il,Ooo tons of British ships have been sunk. Even in the cam
paign in Greece; she lost about Sll,Oo0 tons, which is just as
much as the 860,O00 tons she lost in July of the last Torld War
in which she lost 7,917,O00 tons. Besides, it is a certainty
that Great Britain has lost an average of 7oo,ooo tons .......
Therefore, the figures announced by Germany eppear to' e correct,
and it would be correct to rogard that Great Britain today has
20,000,000 tons, aftor dcduction her loss of 12,000,000 tons.
However, included in this 20,000,000 tons are about 3,000,000
tons of ships below 2,ooo tons that cannot be used for ocean trans-
portation. Besides, about 3,000,000 tons of ships have boon
conmandeered for transportation of troops, arms and emmunitions.
Thus, excluding these 3,000,000 tons of ships, only about 14,000,
ooo tons of ships are today boing used for the transportation of
food-stuffs. This figure is xactly the sarc es tho survey of our
oxperts, who claim that et least 12,000,000 tons of ships aro
nocessary to support Great Britain's .......... and if the number
tons goes below 12,00o;000, tho downfall of Croat Britain will be
inevitable. Therefore, this moans that Great Britain heas only a
reserve of 2,000,000 tons to maintain her sustonance. On tho
other hand, Gormany hes not rolaxed her policy to dostroy British
shipping, but has meco public hor intention to intonsify the des-
truction of British shippin. Thus, Great Britain is facing ε
sorious situation and ............This is the reason why Prosidont
Roosevolt has mado an sarnest appeal to tho pooplo to aid Great
Britain. Alrcady; America, who is trying to savo Groat Britein
from her dowmfall, has exhausted hor rosorvo as far as ships aro
concorned and America, whose ship construction capacity is not
much .......... According to an information roceived here, Americen
ambassador to England, who roturned to Vashington with an inpor-
tant roport on May 3lst, reported that England is now confronting
an unprocedontod crisis and that is impossiblo for England to con-
tinuo the war with and that it will be impossible for England to
continuo hor war if Amoricc is coing to sond only airplenos, tanks,
and guns. Based on this roport, Prosidont Roosevolt conferrod with
the loaders of tho army, navy, and tho Socrotary of Stato on June
third to decido on a definite policy.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #7
However, in view of the fact that assistance to ngland is too
late and....
., it is expected that America will
strengthen her Atlantic fleet instead. And it is an oren secret
that she will transfer a part of her Pacific fleet to the Atlantic,
although such move will lessen the strength of the Pacific fleet.
Besides, the staterents made by two prominent men (names indis-
tinct.) on June first to the effect that the American Navy will
undertake its action to assist England reveals this informafion.
Japanese National Anthem

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZK Program
Date 6/5/41
Frequenoy 15160 Kilocycles
Music ......Japanese popular
Talk on "American Land arks in Japan" by Mr. Goro
Murata, of Japan Tines and Advertiser. (In English) A digest:
In looking over the history of Japan, you ray have come across
the name of Ernest Francisco Fenallosa (phonetic), a Bostonian,
who disoovered the charm of vorks perßormed by Japanese artists
of yester-years. Today, the soul of that man lies both in Japan
and America. His soul lies in a temple situeted somewhere on the
fringe of Lake Biwa. Ernest Fenallosa vas a native of Massachu-
setts, born in 1853. After radueting fron Vervard University
he came to Japan in 1&78 end becore a professor at Tokyo Univer-
sity. He becane very interested in Jepanese arts. At first, it
wes for mere pleasure, but as ne studied deeper end deener, he
became astonished by its charm and dec: ded to spend the rest of
his life in the study of Japanese erta and introduce it ebroad.
Due to his efforts, rany reesures for the preservation of Japan-
ese arts were introduced by the Governent. hen he returned to
America, he took beck vith hin the profound knowlodge of all the
arts of Japan. ith this knowledge, ho published & series of
documonts as America's contribution to Oriental arts.
Nows:
According to an &nnounce ont yestorday redo by
the press soction of the Inporial Military Hosdauarters, oru
Jepanesc troops confrontod i00,000 Chinese troops in tis opera-
tion in tho southern rtrt of Shansi Provinco and ropulsed thom.
Capturod 25,000 end k11led 50, C00. Capturod vany arms end anu-
nition too. Sicniricenco of cmpairn -- poeco disrupted in this
rogion bocauso of fi hting botvoon communist army and Chineso
Governmont trerps, but pocco and order was rostored through
Japanoso troops' victory. Also, transpoptation of munitions
and aris throuch Hvancho River stopped.
Japanese troops aro mopping up ouemy troops elong tho
lowor ostuary of tho Yanrtzo Rivor. Accomplishnonts as of Hay 28
---- 373 killod, 2,000 ceptivo, 523 rifles tekon and mony other
arms and ammunitions.
The Japenoso troops somotiros ago occupiod tho coastal
rocions of Ivangtung and Fution Provincos. According to e Lan-
churian, :ho roturnod fron a visit to that rogion, tho posco and
ordor of thet rocion is bottor than tho pocco and ordor of the
unoccupiod rogions and that tho pooplo in thet ror ion aro fooling
moro socurj.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.96)
Page/2
News about the Dowager Empress. Her trip to the Im-
perial palace at Hayama, her visit to the Japenese military hos-
pital there and later to the Japanese Naval Hospital at Yokosuka.
Conference betveen conmanders of the army and navy
and government officals held at premier's residence this morning.
Representatives of the Government were Premier Konoye, Foreign
Minister atsuoka, Iinister of Home Affairs Suganuna, inister of
War Tojo, Chief Cierk of the Cabinet Tomita, Cen. Muto, director
of personnel affairs bureau, Jar Minister, and Director Osa (?)
of the personnel bureau of the Navy Ministry, while commanders
of army and navy present were: Chief of Army General Staff Sugi-
yama and Assistant Chief of Staff Kondo.
Savinas in postal savings and sirplified insurance as
of the end of April made public. Simplified insurance -----
9,342,494,500 yen, an increcs3 of 2,309,508,000 yen over last
yeer's Poste1 scvincs 67,218,s00 yen, en increase of 20,271,700
yen over last vear's.
Yorkshire(?), operatin between Europe and Asia, arriv-
ed in Tsurage. On board this chip, Minister Mishi, who played
an tctive part in the conclusion of the agreement between Japan
end the Soviet Union, roturned and stated as follows: "Every-
thing is progrossing smeothly between Japan and Soviet Russia.
Soviot Russia's rapprochoment toward tho uxis is beconing strong-
er. Thore is nothine to fe r ocause pogotictions f or the con-
clusion of c tredo egrpenont aro progressine smoothly."
(Manchoukuo) -- Antinony mine discovered by Manchu-
rian Railway. Follovin through investigation, development of
mine to bo undertelen.
(Berlin)--Report to tho of ect that the conferenco
between Gen. Toygand and the Vichy Coverrront authorities has led
the problom of defonse of Froneh sottlomonts become one of the
irportant matters discussed at the Bronner Pass conference is
drawing the attontion of tho world. The German foreign affairs
authorities yestorday, Juno 4th, stated, "It is only proper for
Franco to deviso mousures of cssistanco and defonse for hor in
viow of Britain's attack on hor colonies."
Clash of Britein cnd France in Syria becoming in-
evitablo, according to ε London dispatch. Besidos, criticism
agcinst the covormmont's blunder in the Crete campaign is be-
coning strongor.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 3
(Berlin)--According to & cormuninue issued by the
German High Cor mend yesterday, S00o British and 4000 Greek troops
were ceptured in Crete, besided numerous arns and ammunition.
Besides this, the Cerman Hich Cormand announced that Gernan air
force raided the southern section of England and the northern
shores of Scotland, causing considerable damage.
The total tonnage of British ships sunk to date is
12,000, 000 tons, thus threstening the disruption of British supply
lines. On t e other hand, sining of British varships during the
month of May, especially, hes been very great and is drawing
the attention of nanal experts. In other vords, those sunk by
Germany include 7 cruisers, 1 battle cruiser, li destroyers,
7 speed boats, 3 armored cruisers, 4 subrarines end 6 patrol
boats, while those sunk by Italy include 5 cruisers, 2 submarines
and 1 destroyer. Thoso daraged by Ger an end Italian air forces
include one battle cruider, one circreft cerrier cnd reny other
destroyers and auxiliary s ins. Most of these ships were destroy-
ed in the Crete campai n. Simmificance --- proves the superiori-
ty of the Germen cir force ever the Rritish Navy.
Accordin to a Domei Cispetch, tho Spanish Govern-
ment hes decided to ostablish : Snanish Iegation in 'anchoukuo
and to appoint the present Sranish inister to Japan as the
Sranish  inistor to Penchouto.
(Cairo)--Prerier of Eyptian Cabinot resigns. Expect
pro-Brisish policy of forner cabinet to be chanced by now cabinet.
lote space
gwen to
(How York) --The Jupanese Chaber of Cornerce of
thei
Hov Yorl ield en ole borato recoptien for Ambessador Norure at
item
Valdorf Astoria on June 4th. About Co0 prorinont Jepanose and
Amoricans vero present. On that occasion, Aibassador Honura
exprossed that there is  vay for peace botween Japen and America
end drow the attontion of verious guarters. The cist of his talk
is as follovs: "nlthough the relations between Jepan and America
todey are complicated and ccute, the waters of the Pacific will
alweys romein calm. Iy firr: belief is that the var beine carried
on in verious placos should not bo rade to sprod into the
Pacific, for nothing can bo soined from an crmed clash between
Japan and Anerica. Therofore, thoro is only a course of poaco
opon before Japan and Arorice. Ever sinco tho opening up of
our country to foroign trtde, vo u ve takon this courso for 86
yours. Therefore, tho tradition of "eccs and cooporation that
has boen built curinc tho years is the asset of reatost necossi-
ty today. Although tho rolations between Japan cnd Amorica
havo boen acute sovoral tines in the past, tho statesmen of
both Jepen and America, guidod by the peoplo, overcame theso
crises. Tho Japanoso-Anorican problom of today mey bo moro
ccute then those of the pe st, but I firmly boliove that thoro
is no roason to think that thore is no way for a pe ceful solu-
tion."

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #4
Lt. General O'Ryan, formerly Chief of Police of New York, who
was present at that reception, requestins America's reconsidera-
tion of her policy toward Japan, stated as follows: "There is
practically no American who has a correct view of the fect that
Japan is suffering with the problems of over-population, resources
and foreign markets and that the economic life of the Japanese
is suffering under such unfortunete conditions. In addition to
theve natural basic conditions, the international situation has
become one in which economic boycott against the export trade of
Japan has actually been strengthened through the establishment
of artificial trade barriers, such as preferential trade end
high tariff, among the economic bloc. To begin vith, no nation
conducts the same arount of import trede with another nation,
nor can she continue an overvhelming export for many years. I
sincerely hope that the Covernments of Japen and America will
try to solve the vroblen vith righteousness as their guiding
principle."
(Vashington)-- In an interview vith reporters on
June 4th, Secretary of Stete Hull stated that the fect that
the exportation of sas and other things to Japan and the Soviet
Union is being continued and is being criticized in congression-
al circles, but in the deternination cf her policy, the govern-
ment is tekins into consideration the various difficulties and
delicate conditions. This can be taken as an attempt of the
national defense cuthorities to ake the governriont ........
as to whether she is coine to executo hor economic opprossion
against Japan.
Coiments on Curront evonts:
To talk on "To That extont will the Chungking Govern-
mont continue her fight acainst Japan." Some vould like to ask,
"Ihy is it that Chun king Governmont is still continuing her
fight against Japan, in spite of the numerous roports that she
is on tho vergo of defoat?" Indeed, th, Chun king Govornment is
continuing her fight, although it is to no aveil. Some would
then say tho Chun king Govornment has not yot boen defeated.
However, there is no other word than defect to dosoribe the con-
dition of the Chungking Covornment today. Todey, bocauso of
the strengthoning of the blockade cround Chine, tho third powers'
aid to Chine has becomo wholly useloss. In adition this, tho
Chungking Govornment has been thrown into e creater predicament
because of tho Soviet Governmont's rapprochoment toward Japen
and severence of reletion by the Chinese communist ermy. By
these fects, it becoros clear us to what oxtent the Chungking
Govornnent will bo cble to continuo her fight against Japan.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #5
In other words, it can be said that the Chungking Government is
in the throes of death. In spite of these facts, the third
powers are lauding the fight put up by Chiang Kai-shek, making
him become determined all the more to gight to the last, and
thus delay the establishment of peace. In other words, the demo-
cratic freedom of America and England is hampering the establish-
ment of peace in the Orient. (one record missing)
Times for the overseas broadcasts to Eastern North
Americe, Jestern North America, Central and South America,
South Seas, China, Europe and so forth siven. Languages used
to demonstrate, with short talks in Italian, Chinese, and other
languages. Also the kind of Japanese program arrenged for
these broadcasts denonstrated.
Program for tomorrow announced.
Theme song.
Japanese National Anthem.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK "rogram
Date 6/6/41
Frequency 15160 Kilocycles
Round table discussion on "Overseas Broadcast".
Participants--Soen Yamashita (chairman), of the Nippu Jiji;
Kojo Sekimoto, of Hawaii Hochi, Ichiro Hattori, formerly of the
Nippu Jiji; and Takeo Ozawa, of the Overseas Japanese Central
Society. /Note: Mr. Soen Yamashita, the chairman, was a"delegate
from Hawaii" to the 26o0th anniversary celebrations last year in
Tokyo. And as such he was made chairman of the Hawaii croup of
the Overseas Central Association. But he has been in Japan for
the last five or six years as Tokyo correspondent for the Nippu
Jiji, though previously he was for some tine in Hawaii. Need-
less to say his vievpoint is undoubtedly thcroughly Japanese. YI/
Yamashita--Six years have passed since the inauguration of the
overseas broadcast. Today, 36 hours are being syent for it and
programs are being broadcast to all parts of the world. Tonight,
learly
persons having deep connections with Havaii have been called
here to discuss the overseas broadcest. Dus to its geographic
aunmedal
location and the atmospheric conditions, the overseas broadcast
Hawaii
is most clearly heard in Hawaii. Since you, Ir. Hattori, have
adal been in Hawaii sometime ago, let's hear your opinion.
Hattori--I was in Hawaii nine years ago. At that tire, there
was no overseas broadcast.
Yamashita--Is that so?
Hattori--However, I used to co to the home of Ir. Mutobe, who
used to teach at tho Japanese High School on Fort Street, and
listen to the broadcast in Japan from about ten on ten thirty
in tho evenings. He hed a powerful radio, but because no antena
had beon rigged up, the programs could not be heard clearly.
Therofo e, I have never heard the overseas broadcast over the
short wave, becauso it was some eicht or nine yeers ago.
Yanashita--Is that so? Todey, tho recoption seems to be very
fine.
Hattori--It seoms to bo so.
Yamashita--Today, what is being most favorably recoived is the
news.......... Ths is the roporting of the important points in
talks of prominont men and mon connocted vith Hawaii. Is this
being dono by your paper, too, Ir. Sakimoto?
Sokimoto--I havo soen it done in my paper.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
Page2
Yamashita--I think that overseas broadcast hes a deep connection
with the newspapers, because some of the people abroad, who have
failed to hear some of these talks, have written that they read
these talks in the newspapers. As an example, in 1932, when I
was still in Hawaii and hen the Olympic cames were held in Los'
Angeles, this broadcasting station sent her two best announcers,
Matsuuchi and Kasuno, to Los Anceles to broadcast these games.
At that time, there was a talk that the Nippu Jiji, with which
I was connected, should send & reporter to Los Angeles, too.
But it was decided that there was no necessity to send any re-
porter, since it was to be broadcast in Japenese and could be
published as news. This was the beginning of overseas broad-
casts. This broadcast was transcribed by four of five persons
and published in our paper. The result was that it was greatly
welcomed by the people. Ir. Ozawa, I heve heard thet you lived
in San Francisco for a number of years, and the year before last,
when you visited San Francisco, you stopped over at Honolulu on
your way back. Thet was your impression?
Ozawa--I have visited Honolulu six times. I was quite lonesore
the first time.
Yamashita--hen was it, the first tine you visited Honohulu?
Ozawa--It was in 1928. I had no friends, so when I went ashore,
I saw some persons fishing. I don't know if this is still being
done. But I sat cown nearby and saw how they fished until it
was time for the boat to leave. However, due to tho nature of
my work, I had many friends hon I visitod Tonolulu from the
second tine on. hen I visited Monolulu lest year, I hed many
friends, so I hed & fine tine. On that trip, I net In. Murata,
who is now vorking at this station as an announcer. He cuno to
greet mo at the dock and entertained me. hile we were drink- 
in: with  r. Horiyama, of the Pippu Jiji, whom I think you know,
end Ir. Honde, of tho Havaii Hochi, Ir. Toriyama suddenly stood
up and said, "vell, I cn nov coing to liston to the overseas
broadcest." It ves then that I thought, "That e fine place
Hawaii is," and that I would like to stay in Hawaii.
Yanashita--This rear, the Sumer vrestling tournament end some
of the Big Six beseball  enes were broadcast end soemed to have
beon regeived favorably. For certain roasons, I think that
Hawaii is nost favorably located for the overseas broadcast.
However, this is a story that I have heard several years aso
before the ovorsoes broedcust progrem was esteblished when peorle
in Hawaii used to stay up until eleven or twelve o'clock to hoar
the radio procram in Japen. (Record indistinct)
Some raved over the succoss they he d in catchinc the radio pro-
gram in Japan end how voll they heard the Japanese music. I was
one of thom.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
age3
Then, the denand for overseas broadcast was raised and a radio
fans club was formed. Then, when Ir. Seishiro Ogata(?) came to
Hawaii, although there was no overseas broadcast then, but since
we could hear the program in Japan, we requested that the power
of the radio station be strengthened to make it possible to hear
the program more clearly, that the contents of the program be
better arranged and that the hours be lengthened....(?) Thus,
we drew up a petition with these three conditions. As I remember
it, I was entrusted with this petition. Thus you can see how
interested we were in Japanese Music. r. Hattori, you formed
your band and started playing over the air since last year, but
Hattori--(Sonething about his band being very busy.)
Yanashita--How many men have you got pleying for you?
Hattori--Forty-eight nen. It is a brass band. Honolulu has a
Royal Hawaiian Band. ell our aim is to play such soft music
played by the Hawaiian Band with our brass band: This has
niver been done in Japan. If I were to explain, it would be-
cone somewhat technical, but only classical rmusic has been play-
ed with brass bands. As you know, the Royal Hawaiian Band plays
every Sunday at laikiki. Tell; I used to co and hear the concert
every Sunday. Sometimes later, when I have the chance, I would
like to talk about it more fully.
Yemashita--You mean you went to study how they played?
Hattori--Yes, and now I am trying to put it into practice.
Yamashita--Have vou sny second Ceneration Japanese, who were
born abroud, playing for you?
Hattori--No. I have none now. Sometime ago, I had one called
Moriyama, who came fror: San Frencisco.
Yanashita--There seens to be some Havaiian-born second genera-
tion Japanese musicians in Tokyo today.
Hattori--(indistinct. Something about Nippon String Orchestra
end e second eneration Japanese, born in Haweii, playing in it.)
Yanashita--There seemed to have been nany sometime ago didn't
there?
Hattori--Not rany that you could call good.
Yamashita--Is thet so?

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
age #4
Hattori--Somo of them have returned and others have quit alto-
gethor.
Tamashita--(Something about Ir. Haida, a second generation Jepa-
nese singer, very popular in Japan.)
Hattori--le is very popular.
Yamashita--He seers to bo ono of tho old timers, isn't he?
Hattori--(Something cbout his boing & singer cnd so forth)
Yemashita--In rocard to tho ovorsoas broadcast, it soens to be
nistalten for the intornational broudccst. Thoso two are wholly
diffenent. Briofly specking, the ovorseas broadcast is a program
in vhich tho conditions and culture of Japan are broadcast from
a special point of view directly to a certain.locality. An inter-
national brcadcast is one in which tho progran is arragngod be-
forohand botween two broadcasting stations and thon both stations
do the broadcasting or one stttion doss tho broadcasting and the
other station relays the program. This is the differenco betweon
tho two broadcasts. In rogard to Hawaii, tho broadeast is an
overseas broadcast. Thus far, no intornational broadcast has
be n mado to Haweii. In this respect, Hawaii is very closely
connoctod ith Japan (?). Thorofore, Mr. Sokimoto, I believe
tho ovorsoas broadcast dous contributo toward meking the peoplo
of Hawaii soo Emorgoncy Japan in tho true lisht. Bosidos, sinco
thore probably cre many socond goncration Jepanose listening in
to tho ovorsoas progrem, what kind of advice, do you think should
bo &ivon in thoso radio discussions to tho second goncration
Japaneso, who are panning to visit Japan?
Sokimoto--Is it clriglht to sive advice to tho second cenoration
Jupanoso of Havaii through this radio discuscion?
Yamashita--Sure, ploase do it.
Sekimoto--Thore has boon an incre so of socond coneration Jape-
neso returning to Japan ithout the passport issuod by the Ameri-
can Covornmont in Jashington, causin considorablo trouble at
tho timo of their landine in Yokohama. I have frequontly soen
such socond conoration Japanoso. Fron my point of viow, oven
if ono is a Japaneso, if ho is an Amorican citizon, he must
havo a passport issund by the Anericen Governrent. Net only
that, ho should havo tho visa of the Jepanoso Consulato in Hono-
lulu. Dut if ho is unablo to obtain this visa for some reason,
ho rust bo propared to presont the appropriato ronsons. In that
evont, ho must also plcco a cuaranteo with tho later Police of
the first port of ontry in Japan.
Yamashita--Why is it?

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
age/5
Sekimoto--Vell, if he places a cuarantee beforehand, he is al-
lowed to obtain a "special entrance pernit" because he is a Japa-
nese even though his nationality is Anerican. In the event of a
dual citizen (?), it is defferent. If he brings along a copy of
his family register and a copy of his birth certificate register-
ed with the locel Japanese Consulate, he is permitted to enter
without any trouble. Besides, lately, there have been many second
generation Japanese, who heve been anable to reply where they
were headed for when asked by the Vater Police authorities. There-
fore, before a second Ceneration Japanese leaves Hawaii, he should
be taught his destination, so that he will be able to reply to
the question asked by the Water Police authorities. In view of
the hotels in Honoluly, this should not be & difficult matter.
However, some second generation Japanese, claiming that they were
so instructed by the hotel managers in Honolulu, have returned
not with a passport, but with an affidavit sworn to by a local
notary. This is useless in Japan. It is absolutely useless.
This mistako is occurring because some persons have the idee
that an affidavit can be rade to take the place of a passport.
It seems as if some are thinking that they can come to Japan be-
cause it is the country of thsir parents, but this is a great mis-
take. Of course, since thcy are Japanese, the Vater Police au-
thorities, as I have stated previously, .......... and are making
it possible to obtain a spocial entranco permit. By obtaining
this special permit, he avoids all such troubles es being thoro-
ughly investiceted ans so forth, oven though he is not a subject
of Japan. This is what I would like to advise the second genera-
tion Japanese about.
Yamashita--As you have just steted, it sens that many of them
do not undorstand the situation. Movevor, since rogulations
aro rogulations, they should bo taught to ohsorvo these rogula-
tions, isn't it hat you moan?
Sekinoto--That is richt. If thoy should ssk thoso who have
visited Jepan onco before, th would becorc aware of the situa-
tion.
Yamashita--I soo. Now, in rogard to the Ovorsees Japanese Cen-
tral Socicty, my undorstanding is that it was organized to comply
with the donand of the represontatives, who attonded the Over-
seas Japanose Convontion last year. Sinco it has conncctions
with the Japanoso rosiding in tho various locelitios abrocd, I
would think it very convoniont to bo ellored to utilize this
oversoas broedcast in making its roports and othor things. How
about maling somo comnonts on tho Ovorsoas Japnnoso Contral So-
cioty at this timc.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 6
Ozawa--Well, there isn't much time left, but let me make a brief
statement. With the support of the representatives of Havaii,
it was decided to esteblish this organization, which finally
was organized on April 9th: Vith Ir. ..........as president and
all preparations completed, its projects are being gradually fur-
thered. In & waod, the Overseas Japanese Central Society is an
organization for all the Japanese residing abroad and we are the
representetives of all these Japenese residents abroad and are
taking the position of the Japanese residents abroad. Therefore,
we wish that the Japanese residents abroad will make use of this
agency without the least bit of hesitation.
Yanashita--:hat is beine prepared at present?
Ozawa--Ve are making preparations to hold a newspapermen's con-
vention sometime in Novenber. Besides this, we are planning to
hold a convention of representatives of South Sea Islands(?) in
the middle part of August in Formosa.
Yarashita--(Indistinct)
Ozawa --In other words, there is no curiosity-seeker within our
orcanization. This organization is an organization for all of
you Japanese residents abroed. In other words, the course of
action to be taken by this or anization will be determined by our
attitude that we are in the sare position as you overseas Japa-
nese residents.
Yamashita--Is that so? In closin, I would like to make it clear
that the International Dencrtent of this broadcasting stetion
desires you Japenese residents cbroad to express your criticisms
and desires in regard to the prograns offered. Please do so to
help them put on better prograns.
News:
News about the scheduled visit of the Emperor end the
Empress to Tama Mausoleum, cn June 1oth.
Japenese neval cir force undertook its first night
raid of Chungking this year on June 5th. Divided into three
s uadrons, they destroyed the militury establishments in the
neighborhood of Chungking.
Our troops ere unleashing e torrific offensive against
the Chineso troops in Hopeh province. To date, our troops have
killed (?) 750 Chinoso soldiors and captured 400 rifles and 300
rmachine cuns.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #7
The materials that were scheduled to be transported
to Chungking, but were confiscated by our troops in French Indo-
China are being transfered to another place for safe-keeping due
to the repeated attempt to have them sent to Chungking.  The
transfer, according to a report, wes started from May 25, under
the supervision of our troops and with the cooperation of the
French Indo-China authorities and will require about a month.
(Taitung)--Life is becoming nore uneasy in Chungking
according to a communist paper. According the newspaper, the
price of one koku (about 5 bushels) of rice has risen to 330
yuan.
Negotiation between the Dutch East Indies and Japan
will again be resumed on Mey 8th, according to a dispatch from
Batavia. According to the same dispatch, the Dutch East Indies
also presented their reply to our suggestion to our representa-
tives. No detail regarding the reply has been received, but
according to a Dutch East Indies authorities the reply should be
stisfactory to Jepan from the stand point of reality.
Overseas Japanese Central Society planning to construct
an Overseas Japanese building, as one of the projects to commemo-
rate the Overseas Japanese Convention held in Tokyo last year to
commemorate the 26th contennial of the founding of the Empire.
Furthermere, the Overseas Japanese Central Society is planning
to hold a convention of Japanese newspaperren from abroad, in
November.
(Rocording indistinct. Tevs about some kin of dele-
gation to be sent to Gernany and Italy by Japan. Freparations
aro being made.)
Jepanese military precepts to bo translated in English
and Gerran to make foreignors see Japan in tho true light.
Military precepts also boins considered as a subject that should
be taught in school.
Besides issuing an executive order to commandeor Ameri-
can ships, Americe put into effoct the maritimo law, enactod in
1916, In rogard to its effoct on Jopan, our authoritative source
is regerdin: is as follows: "It can be seid thet this lav will
have no offect on Japan. Instead, it will enablo Japan to utilize
hor ships to the fu lest oxtent".
(Berlin)--Tho New York Times recently reported that
Germany is planninc to create a United Statos of Europo, but
Germen authorities refuted this roport as croundless and typi-
cal of American propaganda. Thoy also stated that Germany has
no idea of creating such a country and that the greation of such
a country is impossible.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
Page/8
(Berlin)--German eir force on June 4th, raided the
British naval base in Alexandria, and it a peared as if con-
siderable danages have been inflicted on military establish-
raents.
Looking over the activities of the German and the
Italian forces, ve find that the German fleet sunk 24, 000 tons
of British ships on the Atlantic and a 6,Ooo ton cruiser off the
coast of Englend on June 5th, besides, the Gerrnan air force on
the night of June 4th, raided England and inflicted dameges on
the factories and harbor fccilities of Birminghan. On the other
hand, the Italian air force has inflicted considerable demages
to the British tooops at Tobruk and elso damaged considereble
British shi ping and factories.
To regein her lost positions in the Mediterranean Sea
and the Atlantic, the British Governnent aprears to be seeking
the aid of French poss:ssions as well as her colonial settle-
ments. In other words, she has enlisted 3oo volunteers each
from Tahiti and Mew Celedonie and these volunteers have been
picked up by and Australien warship and sent to ......
Gernany denied the landing of Gerien troops in Syria,
cleimin it to be & false propaganda of the British Covernment.
Gernany also claimec that the dofense problem of Syria should
be the problen of the French Governnent and not theirs.
(Hew York)--Accordiny to a dispatch from Rome, Fusso-
lini vill call an emergency neoting on June 6th and wili probably
meke public cn important cunouncement on that occesion.
(Seyrouth)--The pro-3ritish cabinet of Ecypt resigned
enbloc on June 4th, end considorcble difficulty is being experi-
enced in formin  a now cabinet. This is beccuse some Eeyptian
leaders are still ccsting thoir lot with Great Britain, in spite
of tho fact that tho peode vant & pro-Nazi cabinet to be formed.
(San Francisco)--0 I 0 vorkers of Oakland demanding a
raide in pay have started a strike, Such successive outbreak
of strikes is causing a creat delay in the defense procrem of
America. Therefore, the Cornittee for the defense of Americe (?)
hes adopted a rosolution advocating the deeth penalty to those
starting strikes, which will shortly be presented to Congress.
(Enclewood, Calif.)--About 9,Ooo workers working in
the air plane manufecturing plrnts have sterted e strike from
June 5th, demanding a raiso in pay. The American Government re-
portedly is stricken with panic duo to the numorous strikes in
important industries.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
ge#9
Comments on Current Events:
To talk on "The Chugen Operation of the Japanese Troops":
The Japanese troops' pperation in the southern part of Shansi
Province is now in its final stage with the Japanese troops mop-
ping up the remnants of the Chinese troops. In regard to this
operation, the press section of the Imperil Military Headquarters
issued the following announce:ent on June 4th: "Our troops
started their offensive on May 7th and defeated the 200,000
strong Chinese troons, annihilating half in doing so." I would
now like to talk about the significance and effect of this opera-
tion to the future developments. According to the announcement
made by the pr ss section of the Imperiel Military Headquarters,
the Chinese 1eft 50,000 bodies on the field, while 25,000 others
were captured, besides nuerous field crtilleries, machine cuns,
rifles and amrinitions. In other words, including the captives
and the deed left on the field, the Chinese suffered a casualty
of about l00,o00. This achievement vas accomplished by our troops
in only twenty days. This shows how fast the athack of the Japa-
nese troops is and also how strong the Japanese troops are. In
regerd to how seriously the Chungking Government has been affec-
ted by this defeat, it can be seen by the fact that she has lost
the greater part of her main ermy and, at the same time, she has
lost a region very rich in natural resources. To begin with,
this region had been under the protecticn of the 200,000 troops
under General Orikko end hed been favored vith impregnable na-
tural barriers. However, our troops overcame these natural ar-
riers in twenty days and ceptured or killed many leaders of the
Chinese troops, totalling about 85 in all. Because of this, many
of the Chinese soldiers lost their spirit to fisht and surrendered.
Due to the region being vory mountainous, our troops encountered
considerable difficultios, being unable to use its mechanized
twoops. In somo instances, food-stufis were dropped from planes
because of lack of cood roads. In spite of these difficulties,
our troops acconplished its ain. An interosting story in con-
nection with this oporation is our troops' capture of 1,500
Chinese troops with herd bread. That is, when our troops start-
ed feeding the captured Chinose, about 1,500 Chineso troops,
who were hiding in the mountains, saw this and unable to with-
stand hunger eny longer, thoy cano out and surrendered to the
Jepanoso troops.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 6/7/41
Frequency 15150 Kilocycles
A radio discussion on baseball. Participants--Soen
Yamashita, Shigeo Kameda (Local boy who captained the Meiji
University beseball team last year), and another person (Name
very indistinct).
Music----Japanese, Hawaiian
News:
Negotiation between the Dutch East Indies and
the Japanese Authorities was resumed arain yesterday. On that
occasion, the Dutch East Indies presented their reply to the
Japanese sugcestions to Deleate Mizusawa, According to a re-
port, the reply is not satisfactory to Japan and in a press in-
terview with Japanese newspaperren, Delegate Mizusawa stated
as follows: "There are still many natters that are not satis-
factory to Japan, and if these cannot be smoothly settled, we
have no alternative but to return to Japan". Thus, everything
now depends on the ettitude of the Dutch East Indies Authori-
ties.
The text of the reply of the Dutch East Indies authori-
ties to the suggestion of Japan was received today by the Mini-
stry of Home Affairs and a reply is expected to be made later.
Incidentally, the reply cannot be thought to be satisfectory.
Therefore, the situation is still ccute.
(Reccrd indistinct. Something about Jritish, French
and German Arbassadors conferring oth Foreign Minister Mat-
suoka for thirty rinutes, respectively, this morning and the
Italian Ambassador conferring ith Director Sakamoto of the
Asiatic Affairs Bureau for thirty minutes this morning.)
(London)--Japanese Anbassador to England Shigemitsu
yesterdey called on Foreign Iinister Eden and conferred for
about an hour. Incidentally, Foreign Minister Eden is expec-
ted to invite Ambassador Shigeritsu to call again on June 9th,
and exchange opinions.
(London)--Hore-Belisha, former minister of war, spoke
before the National Society of Scotland on June 3rd, and blamed
the British Government for the British defeat in Crete, as
follows: "The action taken by the government in the defense'of
Crote was ...............
In spite of the repeated defeats,
the government, as usual, is raking & conflicting explanation
and is tryins to evade the responsibility by oxpressing ......
confidence in regard to the futuro. Even the productive power
of the factories and ship-yards has lessened to a surprising
degree".

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2
As a means to obtain aid from America, he urged that the indust-
ries of America and England be supervised and managed by a joint
British and American com ittee, thus trying to lure America into
the war.
(London)--With the spreading of the war into the Near
East, the British Government, believing that Soviet Russia will
take part in the war, has decided to recall her Ambassador to
Russia to sound his opinion. The said Ambassador left Moscow
on June 6th, and is on his way back to England. He is expected
to return to Moscow after having conferred vith the British
authorities.
(Belsbrug(?))--Lord Patrick (?) of Dobrogea, which
has been released fron the bonds of the Versailles Treaty
through Germany's victory, arrived in Delsbrus (?) on the morn-
ing of June 6th, to confer vith Cer an authorities. He confer-
red with Witler for two hours in the afternoon. In regard to
the matters discussed, a Berlin dispatch stated as follows:
"The conference vas held prinarily to discuss the borders of
Dobrocea, which is presently occupied by German troops."
(Record very indistinct. Sonething about negotiation between
Italy cnd Croatia regarding Croatia's border progressing
snoothly). Thus, creation of a new order in the Balkans is
progressing smootily.
The second meating of the Privy Council was held to-
day to discuss the Thailand-French Indo-China peace treaty and
the ancillary areenent concluded by Japan, France and Thailand.
The Governnont as represented by Foreign Iinister Matsuoka
and other authorities concerned.
According to a disnttch from Hanoy , the relations
between Thailand and French Indo-C:ina are becoming very friendly
ever since the conclusion of the peace trecty. Tie Government-
general of French Indo China yesterday, June 6, announced that
the wiroless corn:unication sorvice between the tvo countries
will be resumed this month and arrangoments for postal servico
are being made, also.
Japanose troops' carpaign against the Chinese troops
in Hopeh and Shansi. The cormandor of the Chinose second Divi-
sion reportedly vas killed in this campaign. As usual, many
Chinese troops and ares and munitions captured.
A Feking dispatch pertaining to tho ill-feeling exis-
ting betwoon the Chinese Communist troops and the troops undor
tho control of the C:unrking Govornmont duo to dofeat suffered
by the Chinoso at the Shansi front.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
(Hongkong)--In spite of the fact that Hunan is a
great rice producing region, a great rice shortage is being
experienced by the people. The reasons for this is the great
quantity of rice taken by the Chinese troopa and the destruc-
tion of transportation facilities by the Japanese air force.
News about the Crown Prince's visit to leiji Shrine.
Hews about the mpress Dowager's visit to the light-
house at Point Tsurugascki on Iiura Peninsular.
The first National convention of the National Support
Society will be held from June 16th. About 700 delegates, in-
cluding 212 nembers of the Mational Support Society, its of-
ficers and numerous governnent suthorities, will attend the
convention. About 200 matters will be discussed during the
meeting.
Baseball result of the Big Six League. Game between
Hosei and Rikkyo.
The Japanese cocdvill and military delegation, under
General Yarashita, which has been inspecting the armament fac-
tories of Itely for the pest three weeks, returned to Rome and
lauded Italy's mobilization systen under the present energency.
(Vichy)--The Vichy Govermient held an inportent con-
ference on June Sth,, Conference attended by Gen. eygand,
the Covernor-Ceneral of Frencl Vest Africa, the Governor-Gen.
of Tunisia end Petain. After tho conference, the French foreign
office made public France's ettitude toverd Secrotary of State
Sull's threat, as follovs: "It is a creat mistake for Secre-
tary of Stato Hull to ropard France's policy of cooperation
vith Germany es a policy of accression. That France will gain
from her cooperation vith Gerreny is tho presorvation (?) of
her covernront and her intercourso (?) with other nations.
(Berlin)--Accordin to a corrunicue issued by the
Gorman Hi h Co.mand, the Corman  ir force raided a croup of
British ships in the waters east of Scotland on June 5th, and
sunk 3 ships, totalling 15, 800 tons.
(Rome)--Accordin to a conmunique issued by the
Italian High Conmand, tho Italian air force on the night of
June 5th, reided Gibraltar, Malta and two other places, while
an Italian torpedo boat sank a British submarine in the Medi-
torranean Soe. Boside, tho Italien troopa in North Africa
ettacked the British troops at Tobruk, tocether ith the air
force.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #4
(Leyrouth)--British troops in .......(name indistinct)
are retreating toward South Africe.
Corments on Current Events:
To talk on "France Rapprocherent Toward The
Axis Powers". Vith the conclusion of the Crete campaign, va-
rious conjectures in regard to Germany's next move are being
made. Sone ere regarding that Germany will leunch her next
offensive against Cyprus, while others are regarding that
Germany's next rove ill be in Syria. Thus, the eyes of the
world are now turned toward Syria. France and Great Britain,
who were once allies, are not about to ficht each other. This
cannot be said to be the trick of fate, but should be regarded
as en inevitable consecuence and as the correct interpretation
of the situetion by the Trench authorities. There is a porerful
new force movin throughout the vcrld today and those who are
acting contrary to this force are fallins, while those who are
acting in confornity vith this force are prospering. We are
following this ner force to create a new world order and to
promote the welfare of hunanity. Such nations as Poland, Nor-
way, Belgium and Netherlands acted against this force and fell.
Another good exarple is the Chungkins government. France, taste-
ing this bitter experionce, is todey followins this great force
under the intelligent cuidance of Ceneral Pet: in. France rap-
prochement to ard the axis povers has brought about e promising
future for her. However, it was a creat blow to both England
and America. This is the reason vhy Ingland assumed an anta-
gonistic attitude tovard France and President Roosevelt has
threatened France. Thus, Creat Britain hes ettacked Syria and
afravated her relations vith France. After the Brenner Pass
conference betreen Mitler and Mussolini, France held several
important conferences and decided to take armed action against
British attack on Syria. The fact that Genersl eygand attended
this conference makes it clear that a concrete plan has been
formed tnd that ho vill take cargo of the defense of Syria.
On the other hand, it is vorthy of note that Germany announced
thet is is only proper for France to take ection to defend her
colonial settlements, thus hinting that she is roady to assist
France. Thus, a clesh between France and Great Britain has
become inevitable end the concensus of opinion is that if Bri-
tain should take action, Gormany will not look on with folded
arns. In that event, it is easy to inacine that Germany will
march into Syria end then attadk Suez from the north. Further-
nore, it has beon reported that Frenco probably will cooperate
with Gernany acainst the British attack on Syria. (Record in-
distinct) Chus, Creat Britain is desperatoly trying to lure
America into the war and through the efforts of the British
Ambassador to America,  oricc's attitudo toward France has
suddenly becoro unfavorablo. This has rosulted in Secretary
Hull makins & statoient to the offect thet France's rappro-
chment toward the Axis Powors will injure American interosts.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.96)
Page5
Thus, France, avakening to the reality and with a clear judge-
ment, is trying to reconstruct herself with the aid of the Axis
Powere and hcs even liquideted her pro-Chianc attitude in East
Asia. As an example, she assisted in the confiscation of the
rateriels of the Chunghin Governent that vere held in French
Indo-China.
Japanese Lusic
Children of Hewaii, how are you? Since the nonths of
April, Lay end June are the best tire in Jepen, the children of
Japan are all in high spirits and attendins cchool every day.
Durinc recess, all the beys have their coats off and play base-
ball, do cytmesites and other things, hile the cirls play
baskethall or junp rope. Hovever, remembering that the Japa-
nese soldiers are fichting at the front, they, besides playing,
are performing patriotic services, such as cultivating vegetable
Cardens, cleaning the yards of nearby temples and shrines and
other things. As you ail now, tho Japanese troops are winhing
successive victories at tho front tnd about to make China sur-
render. By looking ct c rap of Cine, vou can tell how large
China is and the Chinese troope are oscapine hore and there and
avoiding frontal contact  ith the Japanese troops. The Japa-
nese troops recontly decisively defeated the Chinese troops in
the southorn part of Shansi Province. Since the beginning of
the var, the Japanese troops have destroyed over two thousand
Chinose planes, somo on the rcund and others in flight: Yet
Chiang Kai-shok, rocoivins aid fron nolend and A erica, is
cpposing the Japanose troops. (Very indistinct). Vith our
friendly countries, Cormany end Italy, dofpetin~ Great Britain
in the west and our couatry, Jepen, defostinc Chiang's troops
in tho sast, it vill not be lon hen c now world ordor will
be estcblished in Asic and in Europe.
Somothing cbout the hupross's vicit to Kyoto, on
May 15th.
Sonethinc about Mav Dey, observed on Ney 27.
Sometkin about Manshin trar line making new connection.
Absolutoly inaudiblo.
Sonethine about a mucl fostivel of Minetogawa.
Rocord indistirct. Only thing cudible is these
are news from Nara end akeyeme Profectures
Jepcnoso Hational Anthom.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZK Program
Date 6/8/41
Frequency 15160 Kilocycles
Baseball game between Keio and Meiji
Nevs:
For certain reesons, the reply of the Dutch East
Indies Government to our sugestion has not yet been wholly
received by our foreicn office. Thus, the conference of politi-
cal leaders, which was to be helc today, has been postponed to
two days heuce. At any rate, the covernment is expected to
assume a strong attitude. Newspaper corments in regard to this
matter are as follows: Tokyo Asahi Shimbun--The nations that
Dutch East Indies is depending upon are Anerice and England
and since a joint defense plan hes probably been completed, the
Dutch East Indies must have delayod her reply and mede such an
unsatisfectory one. Since no sincerity can be seen and their
true motive has becone clear, it is useless to carry on further
sotiation. So lons as she does not correct her attitude and
knowlodce, necotiation in the truo sense or the vord are never
expected. Ve express our appreciation toward the efforts of
Delegate Yoshizava and, at the sere time, urge that tho nego-
tiation bo dropred for the time being. Tokyo Nichi-Nichishim-
bun--That tho Dutch Tast Indies Governnent, hich ...
69,o00,o00 natives, has cone to rogard our nos caful negotiation
policy as a policy of harassment and essuaod such an unchasto
attitudo is duo to tho instigation of morice and Englend.
They are domineorin: over tho policy of tho Dutch Jast Indios
vith the promise thet the Dutch est Indies Government's policy
of exploitation can safely be continued so long as she depends
on Encland and Americe. In crder to pronote the prospority of
Sast Asia, our Covornmont should immodiatoly devise moasure
to dispol such hallucinations cnd delusion of tho Lutch East
Indios Govermiont.
Japaneso u val : ir force raidcd Chunckina for the
cighth time this yoor yosterdey aftornoon, causing consider-
ablo danago to tho ohomy.
(Hongkong)--Accordin to a roport from roliable
source, the three and a half hours night raid conducted by
our air forco fron Juno 5th, to June 3th, hrs turned tho city
into a holl. That is, althou h officials of Chungkin wore
ablo to hido in the bomb proof sheltors, about 7oo of them
suffocated to death because of sone defects in tho air condi-
tioning facilitios, whilo many othors wore crushed to death
as they rushod to ot out of the de th trap.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.96)
Page #2
According to a dispatch received form Canton by the
Nichi-Hichi Shimbun, considerable damace has been done to the
air field and air plane plant in Kunning by the air raids of
the Japanese air force.  Even the three planes received from
America have been whoaly demaged. This was reported by a Chi-
nese, vho hed escaped from Kunning. He also reveeled the exis-
tence of considerable internal dissension vith in Kommei be-
tween tho people and the Chinese troops.
Achieverents of the Japenese troops for this week
as announced by the press section of tho Japenese fleet in
Central Chi a: Japcnese naval sir force raided Chungking on
June 1,2,5, and 7th and cor lotely destroyed the munitions
plants tnd military estahlichionts thore. Troops mopping up
Chinese remants.
Jepanese Coverniont to cfficielly recornize Croatia.
Hessaso delivered to Crontia Covernment by Foroign Iinister
Letsuoke. Japanese enbassy to be esteblished there soon.
Tho Crom Princo is expected to visit the Yokosuka
naval cir force tormerrov.
(Rone)--Tlho Japaneso socdwill and nilitary delegation
under General Yenashita visibod Pontecorvo. An claborate re-
coption was hold in thoir honor, also.
Ruports to the uiiect that Italian forces have raided
Gibraltar and threo othor British bases in the Meditorranean
and that Gorren air force has raided Alexcndria indicate that
the axis povors have unl  shed e now offonsive. Furthermore,
accordin to roports reaching Borlin, the British authorities
of Aloxandrie are tckin saps to ovacucto British subjocts in
that rucion duo to the rtid by tho Gerran eir foree. British
subjocts in Gibraltar, too, uro feoling unoasy due to the raid
by tho Italian ir foree.
(London)--British air forco ero continuously raiding
the air fiolds in Syria, but no positivo lcnd offonsivo has
yot beon started. This rey b: due to tho fect that tho offen-
sivo stratogy has not yot been complotod, but e creater reason
may bo thnt thoy aro hoping to avoid s clash vith France, for
if she Woro to attack Syrie, Franco vould riso and that would
be like falline into the trap of Cerrany. On the othor hand,
creat criticism agcinst the ovornment is beins mcde in connoc-
tion vith the defect of the British toops in Crete end this may
probably load to tho forration of a new cabinet.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.96)
Page#3
(Beyrouth)--Although England is desperately trying
to avoid clashing vith France, but according to a report from
Ankara reachine Deyrouth, a disecreement of opinion in regard
to the Syrian problem has arisen bet:reen the Corr ander-in-Chief
(Gen Jevall (?)) of the British Mear Eastern force and General
De Gaulle. That is, in spite of the fact that he is urging
irmediate action agcinst Syrie, General Do Caulle has made it
knowm that he does not want to fict cgainst his countrymen
in Syria and is clainin that actions against Syria should be
undertaken by the Britsih clone. On the obher hend, Gen.
Wavell is claining that action acainst Syric shoula be under-
taken by the troops of Free France. Jecause of this disagree-
ment, General De Gaulle reportedly loft Transjordan end returned
to Africe.
(Rome)--General Vavell, cor mander of the Eritish Far
Eastern force is strongly a sinst the attack on Syrie by Bri-
tish troops, according to a report reaching here from Deyrouth.
In viev of the defeat of the ritish troops in Crete, he is
claiming that the British troons will receive a fatal blow if
they attack Syria.
(Berlin)--hccording to a corrunique issued by the
German High Cormand, the German cir force sunk a 15, O00 ton
British merchant chin off the east coast of Scotland on June
sixth and damat ed cnother in the sano noi hborhood, while an-
other spuadron reided sevoral British ships near the mouth of
t o Thames River, destroyin one end driving eway tho other.
(Rome)--Accerdin to  communiue issued by tho Ita-
lian High Cormnand, the It: lian cir fores raided the British
sir fiold in Eayotien Sudan cnd also re ided the British posi-
tion near Tobruk. On tho ni ht of June Sth, thoy reided Lalta
and dostreyed the nilitary esteblishronts there.
(Borlin)--According to a cornunique issued by the
Gormen Wich Cormand, the Gorrne air Force hes sunk 35, 0oo tons
of British shiyping durin the firet w ek of June, and cbout
15, ooo tons curing this veok. Furthornore, bosides dostroying
c 3, coc ton British morohant ship et e. point bout 40o Kilo-
reters off the coast of Lfrica in the Atlcntic, tho Gorman air
force also sunk a 15,000 Pritish morchent chip noar Arbroath (?)
Furthormore, the (orian end Italian air forccs destroyed six
Dritish sub arines durin tho nonth of Lay, but the British
Admiralty hes ennouncod tho sinking of only two submarines.
Accordin to a dispatch fro ..........in Spain, two
battleships, ono aircraft carriur, throo cruisors, five des-
troyers and soven subnerines he ve ontered Gibraltar during the!
c.st fev deys.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
Page #4
Those are British warships that had been damaced by the German
air force during the Crete campaign coming into Gibraltar for
repairs. One of the cruisers as loaded with the bodies of
those ho had died in the Crete campaign.
(Rome)--America's proposed occupation of Dakar in
Test Africa and of the French possessions in the Testern Hemi-
sphere is beint wa tched from various quarters because of the
possibility of these islends being used as strategic bases in
the event of America's participation in the var. In regard to
hhis, the Popolo de Roma of June 7th stated as follows: "Ameri-
ca is not aining for Dekar. That is what America is saying, but
it should not be interpreted that Anerica hes iven up her plan
to occupy strateric noints in Test frica. Instead of Dakar,
she is aiming for Bathurst. Bathurst is strategically located
and if the allied forces of Dritain and America should use Bath-
urst as their base, they will not only be able to reduce Dakar,
but also threaten Portuguese Guinea. It also vill be a favor-
able point from vhich to attack the Martini Island."
(Beyrouth)--In spite of tho cruistice asreenent, Iraq
troops are still firhting erainst the British. As a result,
the people are still feoling uneasy.
(Hashington)--The numerous strikes in merica are not
only delaying tho dofense ro ram, but sro clso hampering Amori
ca's aid to ncland. Stephon Eerly, secretary to the Prosident
croatod a creat sonsation on June 7th, by unnouncing that Presi-
cont Roosevelt has corpleted cll proparations to take over the
air plone plents that ere manufacturine plenes for Englend.
Accordin to the announcemont, Presidont Roesovelt has alroady
comploued proparations for tho occupetion of the air plent in
Inglwood, Californic, if the strikors do not roturn to their
vork by Juno Sth.
Jananoso Lusic
Corments on Current vents:
Vill co ment on the Dutch ast Indios Govornmont's
roply to Japan. Tho final roply of tho Dutch East Indies Gov-
ornmont was presonted to our rouresontative tho dey beforo yos-
terday, Juno 6th. This roply of tho Dutch East Indios Govorn-
nont is oxtromoly insineoro and is wholly contrary to our point
of viow. It conteinod nothin but things that ill noedloos
aggravatc the situation. In this nogotiation vith tho Dutch
East Indios, our country undertook it vith sincority und with
the intontion of ostablishing a poacoful sconomic condition
within the Groater East Asia Iutual Trospority sphere.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
Page#5
However, the attitude of the Dutch East Indies Governemnt
against this has been...........and insincere, end their atti-
tude has at last been revealed in their reply. The negotie-
tion between the Dutch East Indies and our government was
started by forner Minister of Cormerce Kobayashi. Then, Dele-
gate Yoshizawe, taking the place of ir. Kobayashi, vent to
Batavia and continued the negotiation until todey. Due to the
insincerity of the Dutch East Indies Covernment, the rupture
of the negotiation was feared at several times. As I heve
stated previously, since the prupose of our Coverurient is to
establish an economic condition that would minister to each
other's wants to widen the scope of mutual prosperity and co-
operation of both Japen and tho Dutch ast Indies and .......,
our government endured the unendurable in order to accomplish
this ain end sourht for the Dutch East Indies Government's re-
consideration and recognition of the real vorld condition for
her sake. Yet, tho Indies Govoriient shoved no sincerity tovard
this fair and peacoful request of curs and dlayed the negotia-
tions with various protoxts. Instead, she rofused to make a
definete reply and noodlossly connocting the probloms of Japan
and tho Indios to tho changes in tho intornational situation,
and misjudging the situation at that, sho brought about the
situation as of today. One month has passed since our country
requestod for thoir roply. Thus, vo have carried on the nego-
tiation with an attitude to depend on ono th:t could not bo de-
pended upon and to bring about peaco in the vorld situatim.
Thereforo, our country has no timo to westo. Onr roprosonta-
tivo, Yoshizawe, explained this attitudo to tho Indios euthori-
ties and sought for their reconsidoration. However, tie Dutch
East Indies authorities nede no attompt to understand this ex-
tromely feir cnd non-bargeining request, forcing Japan to mak
a final demand. Our denand, ven in regerd to the matorials
sought and the emount sought, is vory roasonebls and is not ono
that tho Indios ca not accept. On the contrary, Tepan is ro-
quosting for things that are necos: ery for hor ocononic life.
In spite of the fuct that the Indies should consider the things
sought by Japan with e cslm and impartial attitudo, sho has
misinterprotod our request and civon us a very insincore reply.
To bogin with, the matter, hich is tho problom of Japen and
the Dutch East Indios and which should bo celled to account,
is the Dutch East Indios' productivo and su plyine power, In
spito of tho fact that the nogotiation concorned this matter,
tho Indies governrient hes taken up tho trado roletions botwoen
Japan and Theiland and botwoon Jipen and Frenoh Indo-China and
has assumed an actitudo of wanting to chango her promiso and to
..........tho negotiation that had beon carriod on betweon
Japan end tho Dutch East Indies. Thorofore, a sound develop-
mont and stability fo tho trado betvoon Japan and tho Indios
cannot bo oxpcctod, over.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
Page #6
However, the Dutch East Indies Government in the last of May
stated that she would like to trade with Japan because she
feels it to be of great importance to her. Therefore, the
Dutch East Indies' reply can only be regerded as an attempt
to disrupt the negotiction and indicates that the Indies should
be responsible for the future development of the negotiation.
We have seen numerous examples of hat he pened to nations that
have misjudged the real situation in tho current European war.
Such nations are the Netherlands, the mother country of the
Indies, Belgiun and France and also the Chungking government
of East Asia. In considering ths European situation, the
Dutch East Indies Government firnly believey that England with
the aid of America will gain the ultimate victory and thus is
depending on America, too. Let us leave it up to the Indies
to consider as to whether the prosont world situation is deve-
loping favorably toward Great Eritein. It may show the Indies
authorities whether thoir view is correct or not and whether
it would be too late then. Leaving the Indies Authorities to
consider the world situation, lot us consider tho situetion in
the East Asia Mutual Prosperity sphero. Fronch Indo-China,
whoso mother country, France, has come to recognize the real
situation under the losdership of Goneral Potein, has come to
realize tho real situation in East Asic and cooperating ith
Japan, she has sottlcd her dispute with Thailand. Cn tho other
hand, vith the conclusion of a noutrelity trocty botween Russia
and Japan, Japan's stron? military and conomic pover is causing
the dovmfall of the Chunakine governnent. Thus, rorerdless of
tho wishes of the Dutch East Indics, the East Asia Hutual Pros-
pority Sphere, with Jepan as the leador, is cradually being ro-
alized.  Japan only triud to solidify her roletions vith the
Indies for the purpose of obtaining tho raterials necessary for
hor ccononic life, of promotins tho prcspority of Past Asia
and with the hopo that the rosourcos of the Indies will not
bo dominatod by o sinalo croup of netions, but vill bo deve-
lopod for the olfare of Mast Asie. Movover, the roply of
the Dutch East Indios wes made a mistelren jud orent and is in-
doed to be rmgretted for her sake. At the same time, Japan
oxplained the inoviteble naturo of Japan's peacoful and econonic
southward push. In closin, I vould liko to repoat the vords
of our ropresentative, Yr. Yoshizave, as follovs: "ve did not
think that ve would recjive such a roply. To had limited our
domand to tho nininum, but all vere i nored. e aro dotermined
to do our best to tho ond, but if our sincority is not undor-
stood wo havo now othor alternative but to ithdraw from Bata-
via."
Japanose Classical Play.
Japaneso folk sons.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.96)
ge#7
Talk by Keikichi Koide, leader of the Japan sight-
seeing party, sponsored by the Japan Red Cross Society of Havaii:
Japanese of Haaii, Japan is now gxperiencing her summer season
a season that is very f vorable for traveling. Ever since we,
members of the Jpan Red Cross Society's sicht-seeing perty, came
to Japan, .............. have Icssed. During that tine, we heve
seen and experienced the ......... of emergency Japan here and
there and have been deeply impressed on coring in contact with
the true condition of Japan.  het inpressed us most d eply was
the work that is being carried on by the Red Cross. I would
like to take advantage of this opportunity end desoribe this
visit of ours. Firstly, ve wore invited to a reception luncheon
held in the auditoriun of the Japen Red Cross Society. On that
occasion, Mr. Goto, hecd of the ...... of the Red Cross Society
expressed his appreciation for the sunport extended to the Red
Cross Society by the Japanese residents of abroad. Although you
Japanese residents of abroed, are not directly counected vith
the work done by tho Red Cross Socicty, you indirectly ere con-
tributing much toverd thoir "ork just as the poople in Japan,
Then we were perritted to visit the rusoums of tho Red Cross
Socioty. Hero vero storod all rocords and materials pertaining
to the work of tho Red Cross Society. There vere so reny things
there that it vould have teken us ono day to soe all if vo were
to take our time. On visiting this musoum, it becomes clocr es
to how intornationelly widoly and deoply tho vork done by tlhe
Red Cross is being carried on ith a noble spirit, und vo can-
not holp but be surprised and noved. To could not holp but on-
tortain a fooling of apprcciation on speing the oxtont of the
work of Cherity bein: done by tho Rod Cross Society. We beceme
fully aware of the importaneu of Red Cro s worl: in time of peace
end var for tho firs time. o could not holp but fool happy
for the opportunity thet has been extended to us, ho are rosid-
ing abroad, to assist in this vork. Yo, then, ruturned to the
auditoriun and vore shovm a retion picture perteinin to Red
Cross work. Thus, vo vore desply moved cll tho more. To have
road of the beautiful ork cnd cacrifices b ing porforned by
nurses in books and other things, but nothin roved us more than
this picture. (Desoribed phe saerifices bein rade by the nursos).
When wo visited the Ted Cross Society, o were struck by the at-
mosphero of bonevolonce floring about tis plee. We heve fre-
quently heard the phrase, "Chority begins t hone, but chould
not ond thero". Tho Rod Cross is & socioty herein this phreso
is actually put into prcctico. o statod bofore wo loft that vo
aro coing to Japan to oxporionco this Japunoso spirit of charity.
Wo, membors of this sight-s vin party, roce led this statovent
upon returning to our hotel fron this visit to the Rod Cross.
In Japan, the Emporor himsolf takes pert in this creat vork of
Charity, Thero are neny nenbers of tho Rod Cross Society in
Hawaii and they aro all doing thoir part as nombors.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
age #8
However, I would like them to take a greeter interest in this
significant work of the Red Cross Society. Men ve visited the
wounded and sick soldiers at the Red Cross Hospital, we shed
tears of gratitude. Although they had rendered great services
to their country, they thanked us for taking the trouble of
visiting then.  When we stated to these soldiers, who had risk-
ed their lives for their country, that we extend our deepest
appreciation and respect tovard them, they silently lowered
their heads. At any rate, we were rnost deeply impressed on
visiting the Red Cross and the Red Cross Hospital and voved to
be of greater service when we returned to Haveii. That inpres-
sed us greatly on our travel throughout Japan was the sicht of
people working very hard in spite of the five years of war.
The activity and prospority in the cities is great. On seeing
this activity and prosperity vith our oyes, we could not holp
but encourage (?) ourselves that vo have nothins to worry about
and should pursuo our courso without being misled by anything
and thus perform our duty to our country. In closing, I would
like to say that vo are avaitin vith joy to roturn to Hawaii.
Peoplo of Hawaii, to are scheduled to return to Hawaii on the
Kamakura Maru, hich leaves Yokohana on Juno 14th, end are
happily awaiting for the timo to soo you all acain. Good-byo.
usic
Progran for Tomorrow
Japenese lational Anthen

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Program
Date 6/9/41
Frequency 15160 Kilocycles
Jepanese Music
News:
In regard to the reply nede by the Dutch East Indies
toward our demand, the attitude of our covernment has taken on
a stern aspect. Considering the great effect the development.
of this problem will have on Japan, both domestic and foreign,
Foreign Minister Matsuoka is studying it politicelly fmom various
angles. Besides, a meeting of the departrent heads conoerned
was held this morning to study the contents of the reply and ex-
change opinions. A joint meeting of all the depertment heads was
held this afternoon and this meeting si still being held at pre-
sent.
Appointment of General Doihara as inspector-General of
Army aviation and menber of supreme war council, succeeding It.
Gen. Yamashita, who has been eppointed as war councillor. In an
interview with newspaper rerorters, Generel Doihara stated as
follows: "I regard it a great honor to be apnointed to serve in
an important post conmected vith aviation in this period of strife
when no one can tell what the situation of tomorrow will be.
Today, whon a super national defense is being emphasized, I think
the imagination of an individual rust bo mado tho most of in avia-
tion. Thorefore, I an determined to corry on tho policies of my
prodecessors and to mako overy ovvort to build en cir force equip-
ped with & nominally and virtually suporior content nocessary for
our country as leader of East Asic." Reason for tho appointment
of General Yara shita as nember of the supreme wer council -- Pre-
sont membership composod of Cen. Torauchi, monber of tho llth
graduating class of the military acadomy, end Cons. Okamura and
Diohara and Lt. Cons. Sonobe and Suetake, all membors of tho 16th
graduating cless of tho militery ccademy. Noxt in line should
have boen e monber of the 17th graduating class, but Gon. Yamashita
a mombor of tho 18th gradur ting class, has beon shosen to make
uso of the information he is prosently cccunulating in Europe as
leader of the Japanose goodvill and military dologation to the
Axis Powors. Porsonal history of Lt. Con. Varashita -- sent
soveral timos to Europo to study military mettors. Sorvod as
Socrotary-Goneral of tho committoo to study militery administre-
ticn undor Ministors of Ver Ugaki and Minemi. Did oxcollont work
in tho strengthonins of Militery cdministration undor linister of
War Itagcki end Vico-I inistor of Ver Yanagewe during tho Manchu-
rian incidont. Sorved at the North China front in this current'
incidont. Appointed inspoctor-gonoral of ermy aviction in July,
1940. Expected to mako roct chences in Japan's militery cdmini-
stration in viow of his curront visit to Europo. Personcl history
of Gon. Doihare -- Native of Okcyema Frofocturo. Is 59 years old.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
age2
Member of the l6th graduating class of the military academy.
Recently promoted to general, together vith Gon. Okamura, At
the same time, was appointed principal of the military academy.
His predecessors to the post to which he has been appointed were
Gen. Sugiyama, Gen. Hata, and Cen. Furusho.
News about the eripress dowager's visit to Yokohama
naval air force.
Japanese military air force today raided Shokan, in
Hunan Province, and the military establishments there vere des-
troyed.
(Honskong) -- According to a cispatch fron Chungking
about 7oo Chinese died of suffocation in ths bomb proof charbers
during the night air raid of our air force on June 5th, and criti-
cism against the Chungking Government has inereased due to this
incident. To appease the people, Chiang Kai-shek discharged the
three high ranking officers connected with anti-aircreft defense
and protection.
Foreign Minister Natsuoks, ho stressed the importance
of child cducation in ordor to rake Jaran strong at the elemen-
tary school principals' mesting on June 5th, today broadcast and
inspiring messace to the olomontary school students throughout
Japan, as follows: "You all are the ones who ere going to should
er tho future of Japan, If you all becone excellent people, Japan,
too, will become an oxcellont naticn. So please build up your
constitution and study hard and become splondcd Japanese. In as
much as you all havo boen born in Jepan, it is most important
that you be faithful to the Emperor and obidiont to your parents."
Maj. Con. Ryuzo Fukida, lici on officor of the East
Asia affairs Buroau at Amoy, ar ived this morning at Moji sboard
the Takasago Meru and stated as follows in regerd to the peace
and order in South China: "Prion to tho Jepenoso troops' occu-
pation of South Chine, tho price of rice was very high and many
died of starvation due to this, Hovever, due to our troops' acti-
vity, tho prico of rico hus boon stabilizod and ovon tho Chinose,
who had supported the Chungking Covernront, have come to paco
their confidonco in the Jupanoso troops becauso of this.  Conse-
quently, peace and ordor is bein gradually restored."
Fighting is going on botvoon French and British troops
along the border of Syria, according to a cormuniquo issued by
Syrian military hoadquartors. According to it, British troops
on tho morning of Juno Sth, crossod the southern bordor of Syria
and aro prosently fighting & gainst tho French troops undor Gent.
Dontz, while tho British air forcc raided Fronch air fiolds near
Damascus.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
age #3
(Vichy)--Cen. Petain on June Sth, sent a mes age to
the French force in Syria, ordering them to start fighting against
the British troops. On the other hand, a cormunique issued by
the British Near Eastern force headquarters announced the British
force under Gen. Wavell started an offensive against the French
troops and is making steady progress. Besides, the British Gov-
ernment also announced that the British troops have as last start-
ed their operation against Syria, on June Sth.
According to report reaching Berlin, ------- troops,
cooperating with the British troops, are marching toward Bey-
routh from Falestine. A considerable French force, under Ger-
man command, reported is in Syria and the British reportedly have
considerable reserves stationed in Transjordania.
French troops reportedly captureu a detachment of
British troops landed fron a British fleet, composed of one
battleship, two cruisers, end five destroyers, at a point south
of Beyrouth on June Sth. It has also been announcod that the
French troops are pusting up a stiff resistance against the Bri-
tish troops thet crossed the border and headed for Damascus.
(London)--The Pritish Covernnent on June Sth, issued
a statemont to the offect that tho Vichy Government has construc-
ted air bases in Syria for the oxpress use of tho Cerran and Ita-
lian air forces and has attorpted to place Syria and Lobanon
undor tho control of Germany snd cdmitted that British troops
have started an attack on Lobanon. In regard to this, a newspeper
in Borlin, according to a dispatch roaching hore, nede the
following statoment: "The British troops attack on Syria is
nothing other than e problom of Frenee, Bosidos rocarding sori-
ously Franco's rosietance in this recion and hor statomont that
thoro not being any Corman troops in Syria, Cormany firrly bo-
Lioves that Franeo will bo ablu to defond this rerion to tho ond.
This at ack, simile to tho attack on Daker, is based on Britains
solfish motive and this motive of Grect Britein ia to camouflague
hor defeat in Eastern Loditerraneen snd secure for horself Irac's
oil by building up a favorabl position in the Nuar East. Germany
is not surpriscd at all." It is noodloss to state that Great.
Britain will meke up e protext to justify her attack on Syria,
but according to tho conconsus of opinion of tho woll-informed
sources in Borlin, France will bo forccd to concludo an alliance
with Gormany bocuuso of this outbroak of hostility betvoon Britain
and her, and boginning with the Syricn problom, the prosent ocono-
mic and political elliancc will bo oxtondod into a military alli-
ance and a joint Fronch-Gormaan militcry action will bo takon
against Great Britain und since Gormany is detormined to settlo
the Iraq and Syrian problom shc probably will stop in at an op-
r.rtune timo.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
age #4
Since this clash between the French and British troops in Syria
has the possibility of inciting the anti-British feeling in
French Morocco and other French possessions in Africa, a joint
German-French action acainst the British troops wiil probably
be started in these regions, too. Thus if the concensus of
opinion of the well-informed in Berlin.
According to a dispatch from Beyrouth reaching Rome,
Gen. Vavell, commander-in-chief of the ritish Nile forces, re-
portedly is strongly against attacking Syria. His reason is that
the attack on Syria will ouly needlecsly dismember the British
Near Eastern force and t'at here will be no way to repair this
gap. Besides, the Mear Eastern force had suffered severely in
the Crete campaicn and to undertake an ettack on Syria at this
time will eventually brin about a fatal blow on Great Britain.
Considerable criticisn has been made against the Bri-
tish Government for the defeat of the British troops in Crete
and to take the odgo off thece criticisns, the British Govern-
ment has undertclkon c policy of eccression a einst Syria. How-
ever, the criticsms acainst Churchill's csbinet are still strong
and the creation of c new cabinot reportodly is being considered.
(Record indistinct.)
Syria, the stago of the Fronch-British conflict, is
made up of four ropublics, of which the three most important
ones are, Syria, Lobenon and Iatekia. Evor since the conclusion
of the Crote campaign, the eyes of the world havo been focused
on Syria. Groat Britoin, tryin to void a frontal celsh with
the Vichy Govornmont, had tried to nke DoGaulle's troops attack
Syrie. However, the reason why sho has abandon this sly plan
and taken it upon hersolf to attcck Syris is that she wants to
make a liat offort to dofond the Suoz Canal. However, before
the joint action of Fracco and Gormany, the offoctivenoss of
such a pan is boing doubtod and instead it is being thought that
Germany will bo prosonted vith nothor strategic rogion. That
should be noted in this rocion is that the oil from iosul oil
fields is boing sont through Lobanon to Tripoli and to have this
transportation of all oil stoppod by the Fronch troops will be
a groat blow to Groat Britain.
(Borlin)--Ever since tho renner Pass conferonco, the
atmosphore in Berlin has been ecuto and various conjoctures in
rogard to the axis powors' noxt move are boine mado: Some of
thoso conjocturos are Gorrany's invasion of England, axis powors'
movo toward India and so forth.
Japanoso Pusic

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
News of this week:
In regard to the unsatisfactory reply made by the
Dutch East Indies Covernment, the sentiment of the public is for
Japan to take a drastic action. At any rate, our country's
attitude will be definitely showm in a few days. On the other
hand, French Indo-China is trying to become more friendly with
our country and is assisting in the destruction of all :Anti-
Japanese obstacles.
The central convention of the National Support Society
will be held in Tokyo for five days starting from June l6th,.
Adm. Nobumasa Suyetsugu attended the rural conventioas held in
Fukui, Yamagata, Miyagi, Guma and Saitama Prefectures to study
the problems of the rural districts from verious angles. Accord-
ing to his talk, the rural districts are desirous of knowing how
best their districts could serve their country nd that any one
with constructive opinion vill be given as much time as possible
to express himself during the convontion.
Students to render patriotic service, just like the
Hitler youth movement in Gernany. About 2,Oo0,0oo students to
be mobilized to clear up uncultivated lends throughout Japan.
The cleared up lands vill be distributed arong the families of
the soldiers vho have been sent to the front.
An expodition to study the natural resourcos of the
nations in the south will be orgenized this surmer by the Nampo
Shigen Kenkyu Kai (Socioby for tho study of natural resources of
the south.) A similar expedition ill be sent to the Kurile
Islands shortly. Furthormore, tho cxpeditionary force that was
organizod by the I inistry of Forestry and Agriculture andthat
left Tokyo in the cerly part of Lay is now heading toward the
Sea of Oilotsk to make e study of fishing habits and habitats.
Tunnol botween oji and Shimonoseki completoly dug.
Shortly to be oponed.
Youths' aviation training school ostablishod at Ichioka.
Ibaraki Profocture, by Japan Aviation Socioty. School to hold
about 300, 000 youths. Has a domitory covorinc 300 tsubo and ε
hanger wovering 500 tsubo.
To train youths for tho avy, e training school vwill
be established at Umagoya (?) in Tokyo. A ship similar to the
Nagato will bo constructed on land to train youths lifo in tho
navy.
Dai Nippon Joshi Seinon Dan (Young Cirls' socioty of
Japan) is planning to give appropriate training to its mombers
for their predestinod caroor as mothors.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #6
Training courses in home econonics to be taught at the various
branch chapters throughout Japan.
News about formation of poets club.
News about Japanese troops making steady progress on
all fronts and air force raiding Chungking and other paces
(nothing special mentioned). Also, a statement to the effect
that relations between Japan and anchoukuo and Japan and Nanking
becoming closer.
Japanese Iusic.
Telk by a veteran (Kame indistinct) of the current
war: (Digest) Talked ebout the funny rather than the horrifying
episodes of the war. Createst pleaaure of the soldiers at the
front is to heer and reed nevs of home. Soldiers don't receive
newspapers and letters every day. At times, only once a veek
and at other times, only once a month. Put when they come they
come in large batches, but read with interest. Cave example of
a soldier chuckling to hinself while reading a newspaper. It
was found out that corments vere written here and there on the
newspapers by nerbers of his fenily. These letters and nevs-
papers help to stirmlate their courage. So please send as many
letters as possible to your brothers and friends at the front.
Hany other pleasures beside this hile in camp. A typicel one
is the amateur entertainments presentod by the soldiers themselves:.
Good entertainment is presented because srmon: the soldiers are mon,
who had been on the staso, vho icd beon rusic teachers and so
forth. e had among us a soldier who had boen an instructor of
Shakuhachi (Japanose bamboo flute). herever he wnet he never
failod to carry his shekuhachi. Introduce him and he started
playing his shakuhachi.
Thene Song
Jepanose Hatione 1 Anthom

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.90)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5727
Tokyo, July 17, 1941
SUBJECT:
BRITISH REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING "UNFAIR
AND SUBVERSIVE" BROADCASTS FRO JAPANESE
STATIONS TO BRITISH TERRITORIES IN ASIA.
Ydew
SPANNT O  STATE
ABVISER
EE
C
SEP15 1941
MR. HOINBECK
6
A10
of
he
OCT 6 1941
1
LPAKIMENI
894.76/48
togy
iN
e
Division of
OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.76
OCT3
194:
Department of Stat
MR. WELLEE
Cgy mFE
The Honorable
lii
The Secretary of State
cny
Washington
COT
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy of
C
1
1/
a note verbale dated June 28, 1941, from the British
Embassy to the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs
protesting against the "unfair and subversive" nature
of broadcasts from Japanese radio stations directed
at audiences in India and Burma. The note verbale
reviews previous representations made on this subject
since July 1940, cites specific instances of the
broadcasts
(1

=== Page 128 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
broadcasts complained about, which are described as
"undisguised German propaganda combined with sustained
attempts to undermine the loyalty" of the peoples of
the British territories concerned, and requests that the
strongest measures be taken to put a stop to the pro-
ceedings.
The note further states that news broadcasts in
Japanese for Japanese hearers are consistently unfriendly
to Great Britain and hopes that in this case also
"steps will be taken to ensure such broadcasts from
Tokyo may be so framed as to serve Japanese rather
than German interests."
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1 as stated
710
ESC:mg
Original and 4 copies to the Department

=== Page 129 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 5727 dated July 17, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo
(With the compliments of the British Embassy to the
American Embassy, received July 8, 1941)
The British Embassy to the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs
No. 120(35/665/41)
NOTE VERBALE
His Majesty's Embassy present their compliments
to the Ministry of Foreicn Affairs and have the honour
to bring to the Ministry's notice the matter of the
unfair and subversive nature of radio broadcasts especially
directed at audiences in British territory which are
frequently emitted by the Japanese broadcasting station.
2. The matter was first brought to the attention
of the Ministry on July 25th, 1940 when, on information
from the Government or India, Mr. H. N. Brain of His
Majesty's Embassy drew the attention of Mr. Hori of the
Information Department to the fact that the news bulle-
tins in Hindustani broadcast from Japan especially for
audiences in India contained references to "British
tyranny in India" and other objectionable anti-British
material. A specific broadcast of an anti-British
nature was brought to Mr. Hori's attention on August
28th. It is understood that after these conversations
the tone of the broadcasts in question became for a
time much more objective.
3. On the 24th October 1940, however, it became
necessary for Mr. Brain to leave with Mr. Kabayama of
the Information Department of the Ministry a paper in which
it was stated "Complaints have been received from the
British authorities in Burma regarding certain objection-
able features of broadcasts from Tokyo in Burmese, which
appear

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
appear to be designed to undermine the morale and
loyalty of the Burmese people. First place is habitually
given to enemy news about the war at the expense of
British news and the announcer concluded the broadcast
on the 3rd October with a slogan which is associated
with subversive political activity in Burma and which
means roughly. 'Up the Revolution!'
4. In January 194l, after receipt of information
from the Government of Burma that the Tokyo broadcast
in Burma had become a vehicle for German propaganda, Mr.
Brain again brought the subject to the notice of Mr.
Kabayama and warned him that, if there was no improvement
in broadcasts directed towards the Burmese people in
their own language, the reception or dissemination of
Japanese broadcasts in Burma might have to be prohibited.
5. On each of these occasions Mr. Kabayama promised
to look into the matter but, while his efforts are appre-
ciated, it is regretted that no improvement took place
in the broadcasts. On March 1st, 2nd and 3rd, the Tokyo
broadcasts in the Burmese language rose to peaks of anti-
British virulence not hitherto attained. The following
were the main characteristics:
(A) Gloating prominence was given to Axis war news
about alleged British misfortunes and failures.
(B) Complete silence was maintained regarding
British successes.
(C) Allegations were made about the stationing of
Chinese troops in Burma, accompanied by such remarks as
"mean actions of the British", "dirty scheme".
(D)

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
(D) Warnings were given that British interference
in the Sino-Japanese hostilities would bring suffering
to innocent Burmese people.
(E) The weakness of the British was said to be
shown by their reliance on Chinese troops.
(F) There was a complacent anticipation of British
disaster when the new Germen blockade by U-boat and
aircraft should begin.
6. The points described hitherto were brought to
the attention of Mr. Tashiro, head of the Information
Bureau, by the Counsellor of H.M.Embassy, on the 19th
March, 194l, and the f ormer was good enough to undertake
a careful enquiry into the matter. Subsequently on
March 28th Mr. Kabayame informed Mr. Brain that the
Broadcasting Corporation had been informed of the complaint
and that "slogans and catchwords of violent cheracter
would disappear." At the end of May, however, information
was received from the Government of Burma that, despite
the intervention of the Imperial Ministry of Foreign
Affeirs, the Tokyo broadosts in Burmese continued to be
as objectionable as ever. The output was described as
undisguised German propaganda combined with sustained
attempts to undermine the loyalty of the Burmese people.
7. Nor have these objectionable propaganda broad-
casts from Tokyo been confined to broadcasts in the
Burmese language directed to Burma or in Hindustani di-
rected to India. The following is a summary of the
broadcast at O540 G.M.T. (1440 Tokyo time) on June 11th
in

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
in Arabic directed to Muslim listeners throughout the world,
of whom there are many in India.
"Japan regards the British invasion of Syria as
unreasonable and based on the evil design of capturing
petrol dumps of Syria and Mosul. rance is striving to
check the aggressor. Japan fully recognises the inde-
pendence of Syria and hopes that Syria will be a member
of new world order". The broadcast then went on to exhort
all Arabs who are "suffering at the hands of the British"
to "free themselves from the British tyrants and make
their sole objective to see the flag of British im-
perialism lowered". It characterised British history as
an embodiment of injustice and aggression" and added
that no secrifice was too great for the cause in question.
"Do or die, God is with you".
8. Further, during the month of April 194l ob-
jectionable propaganda broadcasts were directed in the
Melay language towards the people of Malaya. It was
stated on various occasions that a German victory in
the European War was certain and that Anglo-American
promises of assistance to all countries were empty. It
was also asserted that "The Greek Prime Minister committed
suicide because he had been let down by the British"
and hearers were warned that the "British would only
betray them in a crisis".
9. It thus appears that over the period in question,
the occurrence of German propaganda broadcasts has not
been occasional or incidental but has been frequent and
apparently part of a policy puraued by the Tokyo broad-
casting authorities in the choice of broadcasts in the
languages

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
languages of peoples in British territory. H.M.Embassy
are at a loss to understand how the Japanese Government
can permit the issue to such peoples by the representative
Japanese broadcasting station of broadcasts which are
nothing more nor less than German propaganda, for which,
it is presumed, the Japanese Government do not wish to
be held responsible. It is clear in this connexion that
the source of such material is irrelevant, whether it be
sensational newspaper reports or the Broadcesting
Corporation's own sources of information; the fact
remains that by the constant use of it the Corporation
is making itself the vehicle of German propaganda.
H.M.Embassy must emphasize again that these talks and
other broadcasts referred are directed specifically at
audiences in British territory for whom the subject
matter has been carefully chosen and in whose language
they are couched. H.M.Embassy must request in the cir-
cumstances that the strongest measures be taken to put
a stop to these proceedings.
10. H.M.Embassy would also remind the Ministry
that the news broadcasts in Japanese for Japanese hearers
are consistently in a form preponderantly unfriendly to
Great Britain, and would express the hope that, in this
case also, steps will be taken to ensure such broadcasts
from Tokyo may be so framed as to serve Japanese rather
than German interests.
BRITISH EMBASSY,
TOKYO.
June 28th, 1941.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.94)
20574
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFTHE
RECEIVED
DEPANITHENTOFES PAFTAMERICA
copiscn unde ald
1941 SEP 3 AM 9 24
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, Japan.
DIVIS ON OF
July 28, 1941.
MNICA
NO. 5748
AND RECORDS
SUBJECT: JAPANESE SHORT-WAVE PROGRAMS FOR AUGUST AND
SEPTEMBER, 1941
Division of
894.76/49
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TELECOMMUNICATION REPO
4 E.112
SEP 14
Department of State
Wer hepertment
Rating
Navy Départment
Treasury (Ooakt Guard)
Maritime Cémmialion
Civil Aeromauc
lepy in
SEP 1 2 1941
Deparvaja
COMMEN
DI
H6
DCA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
894.74
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
SEP 16 1941
FILED
instruction of August 15, 1940 (F1le No. 894.76/17),
requesting copies of the "Overseas Broadcast" published
by the Nippon Hoso Kyokai (The Broadcating Corporation
of Japan), and to Despatch No. 173 dated March 28, 1941,
from the Tokyo Consulate General, subject: "Japan
"Overseas Broadcasting".
PS/MM
There

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
1/
There are attached hereto four copies of "Radio
Tokyo" for the month of August, 194l. Unfortunately
these were received after the last pouch was sent to
Washington. Three copies are intended for the Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce while one copy may be
retained by the Department.
2/
There are also attached nine copies of "Radio
Tokyo" for the month of September, 194l, which were
obtained by having a representative of the Reporting
Section call in person at the local office of the
Broadcasting Corporation of Japan. It is suggested that
five copies of this issue be forwarded to the Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce while four copies may
be retained by the Department.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
—
Frank S. Williams,
Commercial Attache.
Enclosures:
1 - 2 as stated.
File No. 874
CHB/mB
Distribution:
Original and 2 copies to Department
1 copy to Division of Commercial Affairs

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
AUGUST1941
No.61
894.76
Short-wave Broadčast for Southwestern Asia, Near East, Europe, Latin America, the Eastern
Distriets and the Pacific Coast of North America, Hawaii, Australia, New Zegland, the South
Seas and China,
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
SHORT-WAVE BROADCAST FROM TOKYO
indicated by the following chart.
Transmissions are pointed to 13 parts of the globe, the total transmission
time amounting to 41 hours a day in 16 languages. This means virtually that
Japan's short-wave broadcasts cover the cntire world.
Special attention of the listeners is called to the fact that occsional changes
in frequencies and other technical details may be made inevitably upon the
change of seasons. Please note this bulletin cach month, never taking it for
granted.
Reports on your reception of, and reaction to, our programmes are solicited
most cagerly. The communications should be addressed to the
Foreign Department
Identification Signal
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)
3
Tokyo, Japan
For EUROPE
For the EASTERN DISTRICT'S of
NORTH AMERICA
For the PACIFIC COAST
of NO.RTH AMERICA
Parin
Rome
Ankara
For Japanese Soldiere
TeheranKabul
at the Front
Nanking
Toko
San Francisco
Baghded
Fcr China
Shanghai
For NEAR EAST
CalcuftaCanton
Rangoon
Honolulu
Bombay
Rangkok
Saigon
For HAWAII
For
SOUTH
Colombo
Singapore
Fot LATIN AMERICA
WESTERN
ASIA
For CHINA and
the SOUTH SEAS
Rlo de Janeiro
Buenoa Aires
For AUSTRAL1A and
NEW ZEALAND
HIGHLIGHTS IN AUGUST PROGRAMMES
Talks (pointed to all directions)
(2) Gold Fish
Talk for Australia, China and the South
Commentary on News Topics
by Koseki Sato
Seas
by Minoru Yokota, South China
(3) Toys
"Japan's Medicine ",
Branch Head of Domei News
(4) Staple Fibres
by Kazuyo Sasaki
Agency
by Katumoto Atugi
Talk for the Pacific Coast of North
Talks on Culture Series
(5) Mt. Huzi
America
" The Character of the Japanese peo-
by John Morris
"Japan's Architecture",
ple" by Kenzo Akiyama
by Kazuo Minami
"A Story of Canton," by Koya
Special August Editions
Note: The date and time for bro-
Nakamura
(1) Summer Life of Children
adcasting of the above will be
Japan Culture Series
(Electrical Transcription)
announced in our every Saturday
(1) Lackquer
(2) Swimming Events
at the hour of " Weekly Programme
by Tyataro Musumi
(Electrical Transcription)
Notice."

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
3
For SOUTHWESTERN ASIA
Tokyo
0.00 1:55 a.m.
GMT
15.00 16:55
JZJ
11.800 ke s
25+211
Kabul
8:00 9:55 p m. (Previous day)
JZK
15.160 kc s
1:791.1
Colombo Bombay. Calcutta (IST)
8:30 10.25 p m (Previous day)
Rangoon
9:30 -11:25 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZJ
JZK
0.00 a m
Opening Announcement
Opening Announcen,nt
0.05
News in Burmese
News in Hindustani
Kabul
805 p m (Previous day)
Colombo Bombay. Calcutta
8 35 p m (Previous day)
Rangoon 9 35 p m. (
020
Peport av ry Tuesday & Thurs
Report every Tuesday Thursday
day Talk (every Wednesday in
& Saturday) Talk (every Wednes
Burmese or Music
day) in Hindustani or Music
030.
Music
Music
045News in English
Kabul 8 45 p m (Previous day)
Colombo Bombay Calcutta
9 15 p in (Previous day)
Rangoon 10.15 p.m. (
1.00 ..
Report (every Thursday & Satur
day) Weekly Programme Not'ce
(every Saturday). Talk (every
Same as for JZ.1
894.76
Sunday) or Music
115..
News in Japanese
Report or Talk in Japanese
145
Weekly Programme Notice in
Japanese or Music
155
Close Down
Close Down
12
2
To T.   
(
L .  (
13)
2

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.64)
PocgRofan
weoccgg
G
p2 2.35
g
 3
ondo
3= 3 3
8
e- 90
8
20
0O. JJ
8
210
088
Jufngi
 88
mouG
.pmmmgnie29
For NEAR EAST
102 23 3ne  1 2  f a f 10
2no of  1 g3e rar aarsiinr 2mput, arat i 3n
1am2r 2 1 aft. nrsii Pfr  i  ar  arsare
92 1 2 2-  22
 . u1 25 3na-arir  u 4r
2
"  4it P3urxz,  arsmRtor
airirterr stis sturr, th3t, sture.
E A. R JZK R 1 JZK
D~ 94940 P012r2a0 207 90.6e 92221
932 232 92
.222
d 2221 <-302x 90.24;
35 223099-24 25
211015 2502 2025 92-2 92-20 22250 1802250200521
72-2092.30 22
stan't an9 pad aranesir sraait

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.97)
For NEAR EAST
Tokyo
2:00— 3:30 a.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
17:00- 18:30
Ankara
7:00 8:30 p.m. (Previous day)
JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
Mecca. Aden, Baghdad
8:00
9:30 p m. (Previous day)
Teheran
8:30 10:00 p.m. (
Tokyo
JZK & JZJ
200a.m
Opening Announcement
2:05
News in French
Ankara
7 05 p m (Previous day)
Mecca. Aden. Baghdad
8.05
Teheran
8.35
220
Report (every Monday. Wednesday & Friday). Weekly Pro.
gramme Notice (every Saturday) in French or Music
230
Music
2:40
News & Report in Arabic (every Tuesday. Thursday &
Ankara
7.40 p m (Previous day)
Saturday) or Music
Mecca. Aden. Baghdad
840
(
Teheran
910
)
2:55
Music
3:00
News in English
Ankara
8 00 p m (Previous day)
Mecca. Aden, Baghdad
9 00
3:15
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) Talk (every
Teheran
930
”
)
Sunday) in English or Music
3.25
ConcludingAnnouncementKimigayo
3.30
Close Down
LES EMISSIONS EN LANGUE FRANCAISE A DESTINATION DE
L'EUROPE, DU PROCHE-ORIENT ET DES PAYS
DES MERS DU SUD
L
A Radio-Tokio fait des émissions internationales pendant 41 heures (y compris les émissions simultanées) par jour et en
16 langues différentes.
Voici les postes d'émission. les heures de transmission et les programmes des émissions en langue française à destina-
tion de l'Europe, du Proche-Orient et des pays des Mers du Sud
A DESTINATION DU PROCHE-ORIENT
Heures de transmission:
Postes d'émission :
Heure de Tokio :
2 h. 00 3 h. 30
JZK
15,160 kc/s (19 m. 79)
Heure d'Ankara:
19 h. 0020 h. 30 (jour précédent)
Het re d'Aden, de Bagdad, et de la Mecque :
JZJ
11,800 kc/s (25 m. 42)
20 h. 00 21 h. 30 (jour précédent)
Heure de Téhéran : 20 h. 30 22 h. 00 (
,
Heure de Tokio
2 h.00
Quelques mots pour l'ouvertur des émissions
2 h.05
Informations en français
Ankara
19 h 05 (jour précédent)
1
Aden. Bagdad, Mecque
20 h 05 (
2 h.20
Récits historiques (lundi). chronique hebdomadaire (mer.
Téhéran
20 h. 3ō
”
)
credi) chronique de la vie japonaise (vendredi) causerie et
annonce du programm: de la semaine suivante (samedi)
en français, ou musique
2 h.40
Informations en arabe ou musique
Ankara
19 h. 40 (jour précédent)
Aden. Bagdad, Mecque
20 h 40 (
Téhéran
21 h. 10 (
2 h.50
Musique
3 h.00
Informations en anglais
Ankara
20 h. 00 (jour précédent)
Aden Bagdad, Mecque
21 h.00(
Téhéran
21 h.30(
”
3 h. 15
Causerie, annonce du programme de la semaine suivante en
”
anglais, ou musique
3 h.25
Quelques mots pour la clôture des émissions. hymne national
du Japon: le Kim gayo
3 h. 30
Clôture des émissions

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
FOrEUROPE
HALLO! HIER SPRICHT TOKIO!
UNSERE SENDUNGEN FÜR EUROPA.
Sendeselt: 20:00-23:30 Uhr MEZ
Sender, ihre Wellenlänge und Frequenz:
(4.00-7.30 Uhr morgens am folgenden Tage
JZJ auf 25.42m11 800 kHz
japanischer Zeit)
JLG 4 auf 19.86 m15 105. kHz
(Je nach Jahreszeiten und atmosphärischen Verhältnissen verändern wir unsere Sender von Zeit zu Zeit. Näheres darüber
eben wir bei der Ansage bekannt).
Die Jápanische Rundfunk-Gesellschaft führt Übersee-
21:35 Nachrichtendienst in italienischer Sprache.
Sendungen in 13 Richtungen durch. Die gesamte Sendezeit
beträgt täglich 41 Stunden, wobei 16 Sprachen gebraucht
21:50 Sondervorträge, Vorträge oder Ankündigung der Pro-
werden. Das Programm für Europa gestaltet sich folgender-
gramme für die folgende Woche in italienischer
massen:
Sprache (am Freitag).
20:00 Uhr MEZ (4:00 Uhr am folgenden Tage japanischer
22:00 Musikalische Darbietungen.
Zeit) Ansage.
22:30
Nachrichtendienst in englischer Sprache durch den
20:05 Nachrichtendienst in japanischer Sprache.
ersten Sender und gleichzeitig in französischer Sprache.
20:25 Vorträge in japanischer Sprache oder musikalische
durch den zweiten Sender.
Darbietungen.
22:45
Sondervorträge, Vorträge, Ankündigung der Programme
20:40 Nachrichtendienst in deutscher Sprache.
in englischer Sprache oder musikalische Darbietungen
20:55 Sondervorträge (am Montag, Dienstag und Donners-
durch den ersten Sender und gleichzeitig Sondervor-
tag), Vorträge (am Mittwoch) in deutscher Sprache
träge, Vorträge, Ankündigung der Programme in
oder musikalische Darbietungen.
französischer Sprache oder musikalische Darbietungen
21:05 Musikalische Darbietungen.
durch den zweiten Sender.
21:25 Musikalische Darbietungen oder Ankündigung der Pro-
22:55
Musikalische Darbietungen.
gramme für die folgende Woche in deutscher Sprache
23:25 Absage und Nationalhymne.
(am Freitag).
23:30 Ende durch Sendezeichen.
Den Mittelpunkt der Sendungen bildet also der Nachrich-
bietungen hinweisen. Ausser spezifisch japanischer Musik
tendienst, der in jeder Sprache 15 Minuten lang durchgeführt
hören Sie auch fast jeden Tag europäische Musik, die jedoch
wird. Sie hören darin nicht nur von den wichtigen Ereignissen
zum grossen Teil von japanischen Künstlern ausgeführt wird.
in Ostasien, sondern auch über die japanischen Pressestimmen
Über deren Auffassung bezw. Wiedergabe der abendländi-
oder die Ansichten der japanischen Oeffentlichkeit zu wichtigen
schen Meisterwerke der Tonkunst erhalten wir seit Jahren
weltpolitischen Geschehnissen. Besonders unsere deutschen
ständig anerkennende Zuschriften von dortigen Hörern. Auf
Bundesgenossen dürften nicht versäumen, sich unsere Mel-
dem Gebiete der Symphonie und sonstigen grossen Orchester-
dungen anzuhören, da unsere beiden Länder gemeinsame In-
werke sind wir besonders auf die Darbietungen unseres
teressen verfolgen. Für Sie wäre schliesslich besonders
Rundfunk-Symphonie-Orchesters stolz.—Wie oben angegeben,
interessant, darüber zu hören. wie Ihre Volksgenossen in
verkünden wir an jedem Freitag um 21.25 Uhr das Programm
Japan leben oder wie die innige Freundschaft zwischen den
der folgenden Woche im voraus.
beiden Völken, Japanern und Deutschen, in den verschiedenen
Zum Schluss möchten wir uns an unsere Hörer mit einer
Veranstaltungen ihren Ausdruck findet. Solche Nachrichten
Bitte wenden. Wir haben nämlich grosses Interesse dafür,
bringen wir besonders häufig. Wir möchten Sie ausserdem
wie unsere Sendungen von Ihnen empfangen werden, ob
auf unsern Vortragsdienst aufmerksam machen. Im oben
unsere Programme Ihnen gefallen usw. Wir sind daher stets
angegebenen Programm finden Sie zwei verschiedene Bezeich-
sehr dankbar für Berichte und Anregungen Ihrerseits und
nungen: Vorträge und Sondervorträge. Unter Vorträgen
bitten Sie, möglichst ausführlich Ihre Empfangsverhältnisse
sind diejenigen gemeint, die von in Japan lebenden Deutschen
anzugeben, besonders die Namen unserer Sender, Wellenlänge,
oder deutschen Besuchern oder auch deutschsprechenden
Japanern über besondere kulturelle und sonstige Themen
Frequenz, Sendezeit, Inhalt der Sendung usw. Unsere Adresse
finden Sie unten angegeben.
gehalten werden. Dagegen werden die Sondervorträge von
Vorliegende Druckschrift, welche monatlich erscheint, erhält
den Mitarbeitern unserer Gesellschaft selbst verfasst. Sie
jeder auf Verlangen kostenlos zugesandt.
behandeln hauptsächlich -aktuelle Probleme, aber auch kul-
turelle Themata. Am Donnerstag bringen wir gewöhnlich
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI, Kokusaibu,
Serienvorträge über kulturelle Themen, um Ihnen umfassen-
Uchisaiwai-cho, Kojimachi, TOKIO.
dere Kenntnisse über unsere Kultur zu vermitteln. Nicht
(Auslandsabteilung der Japanischen Rundfunk-
zuletzt möchten wir auch auf unsere musikalischen Dar-
Gesellschatt, Tokio).
A DESTINATION DE L'EUROPE
Heures de transmission :
Postes d'émission : J. Z. J. 11,800 kc/s (25m. 42)
Heure de Tokio;
4h.00- 7h. 30.
Heure de Tokio
Heure de Paris:
19h.00–22h. 30 (jour précédent)
4h.00
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions.
4h.05
Informations en japonais.
4h.25
Infqrmations spécisles, causerie en japonais ou musique.
4h.40
Infórmations en allemand
4h.55
Informations spéciales, causerie en allemand ou musique.
5h.05
Musique.
5h.35
Informations en italien.
5h.60
Inforniations spéciales, causerie en italien, ou musique.
6h.00
Musique.
6h.30
Informations en français.
6H45
Récits historiques (lundi), chronique hebdomadaire (mercredi). chronique de la vie japonaise
Paris 2ih. 30
(vendredi), causerie et annonce du progrmme de la semaine suivante (samedi) en français, ou
(jour précédent)
musique (autres jours)
Musique.
Quélques mots pour la, clôture des émissions, hymne national du Japon: le Kimigayo.
Clôture des émissions.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
For EUROPE
LA NOSTRA TRASMISSIONE PER L'EUROPA
TRASMISSIONI IN LINGUA ITALIANA
Q
UESTO ISTITUTO RADIOTRASMISSIONI DEL
Trasmissione per l'Europa :
GIAPPONE sta trasmettendo giornalmente, per l'Europa,
Onde: JZJ 11.800 kilocicli 25.42 metri;
in lingua italiana, quale un reparto delle sue attività per l'estero
J1.G4 15.105 kilocicli 19.86 metri.
che vengono fatte in 13 direzioni in 16 varie lingue per la
Orario : Ora del Giappone 4.00-7.30
durata di 41 ore ogni giorno. L'ora delle trasmissioni, le
Ora in Italia 20.00-23.30 del giorno precedente.
lunghezze delie onde elettriche, il contenuto del programma
Programma del reparto ital ano:
Dalle 21.35 (ore italiane)
ecc. del reparto italiano sono come indicati qui sotto
Notiziario degli avvenimenti
Queste radiotrasmissioni vengono fatte per dare, non solo
Dalle 21 50 (ore italiane)
le ultime notizie esatte degli avvenimenti nell'attuale situazione
Commenti d'attualità : (dom. lun. mart. merc.)
mondiale, ma anche schiarimenti su vari campi della cultura
Conferenza: (giov)
giapponese. Quindi questo Istituto prega vivamente i radio-
Annun io del progr.unma della settimana seguente: (ven.)
ascoltatori di volergli inviare giudizì ece di qualsiasi genere
Ora pei bimbi : (sab )
sulle trasmissioniL'indirizzo è
Dalle 22.00 (ore italiane)
Musiea ed adtri trattenimenti.
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
Oltre a ciò vi sono. nelle trasmissioni per l'Europa, Notiziari
(Sezone Estero)
degli avvenimenti. Commenti d'attualità. Conferenze, Musica
Tokio. Giappone
ecc in giapponese. tedesco, francese e inglese.
Qui riproduciamo il programma mensile. di cui ogni venerdì
verrà annunciata la parte della settimana seguente
PROGRAMMA DELLE
11 lun. Nonziario degli avvenimenti;
Cultura. folklore) Il romanzo " Take-
TRASMISSIONI
Commento d'attualità:
curabe" (Chi è più alto?) di Higuci
AGOSTO 1941
(Giappone doggi) La soja man-
Iciyoh.
ciurrana
22 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
1°ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
12 mart. Non/mario degli avvenimenti:
Annunzio programma settimana se-
Annunzio programma settimana
Commento datteahtà:
guente;
seguente ;
(Note sul calendario) Il nuoto in
(Note sul calendario) Scene di Ennici
(Note sul calendario) Gli Ainu e le
Giappone
(Fiere notturne).
loro leggende.
13 mere. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
23 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
2 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità;
(Ora pei bimbi) " I pesciolini d'oro";
(Ora pei bimbi) "Il barbiere frettoloso";
(Teatro. musica) L'amore di O Some
(Lettura) Nacae Toh-giu. " il Saggio
(Lettura) Sul Buscidoh.
e Hissamatsu.
di Oh-mi.
3 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
14 giov Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
24 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità ;
(Conferenza) L Amm. Toh-goh e
Commento d'attualità;
(Racconto) Episodio patriottico nel-
I'Italia. Amm Conte Ogasawara:
(Racconto) Leggenda del vecchio
l'Incidente cinese.
(Cultuia. folklore) Leggende sulla
Tagliabambù.
4 lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti:
15 ven Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
volpe
25 lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità ;
Commento d'attualità ;
(Giappone d'oggi) Industria della
Annunzio programma settimana se-
(Giappone d'oggi) Industria della
lacca in Giappone.
(Note sul calendario) Canti d'insetti
guente;
provincia di Fucuoca.
5 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
e lucciole nella letteratura e nella
26 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti:
Commento d'attualità ;
musica del Giappone.
Commento d'attualità ;
(Note sul calendario) Passione dei
16 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Note sul calendario) Operazioni
giapponesi per le campanule
(Ora pei bimbi) " La volpe sposina";
militari del mese.
Assagao.
(Lettura) Leggenda sulla trave del
27 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
6 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
tempio " Sangiuh-sanghen-doh " di
Commento d'attualità;
Commento d'attualità ;
Kyoto.
(Teatro, musica) Teatro di mario-
(Teatro, musica) Il canto di Imayoh.
17 dom Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
nette in Giappone.
7 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità ;
28 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Conferenza) Influsso dell'arte ellenica
(Racconto) Episodio patriottico nel-
(Conferenza) La campagna antitu-
sull'arte dell'epoca di Nara (710 -
I Incidente cinese.
bercolare in Giappone. Dott. Endoh
783) Prof. Dan Inoh.
18 lun Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Scighekiyo;
(Cultura, folklore) Sulla romanziera
Commento d'attualità;
(Cultura, folklore) Basciob. grande
Higuci Iciyoh.
(Giappone d'oggi) Carbon fossile e
poeta di Haicai.
8 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
ferro in Manciuria.
29 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Annunzio programma settimana
19 mart. Notiziario degli auvenimenti;
Annunzio programma settimana se-
seguente ;
Commento d'attualità ;
guente;
(Note sul calendario) Gare nazionaji
(Note sul calendario) Teatro del mese
(Note sul calendario) Avvenimenti
di " Base-ball " fra le citta'.
d'agosto.
principali interni del mese.
9 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
20 merc. Notiziario degli avveniment;
30 sa') Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Ora pei bimbi) " Otama-giacusci "
Commento d'attualità;
(Ora pei bimbi) " La scuola dei pas-
(Girini: rannocchietti);
(Teatro, musica)" Madama Butterfly"
serotti";
(Lettura) Macchina dattilografica coi
nel giudizio dun giapponese.
(Lettura) Aviatore dell'epoca di Edo.
tipi giapponesi.
21 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
31 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
10 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Conferenza) Trasporti marittini
Commento d'attualità ;
Commento d'attualità ;
dellantico Giappone. Dott. Terada
(Racconto) Episodio patriottico nel-
(Racconto) Leggenda coreana.
Sciroh;
l'Incidente cinese.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
For EUROPE
Tokyo
4:00
7:30 a.m.
GMT
19:00 22:30
JL G 4
15.105 kc/s
19.86 m
London. Paris (GMT)
7:00 -10:30 p.m.
(Previous day)
JZJ
11.800 kc/s
25.42 m.
Berlin (CET)
8:00 11:30
Rome (EET)
9.30 p.m. 0:30 a.m. (
”
)
Tokyo
JLG4
JZJ
4:00 a m.
Opening Announcement
Opening Announcement
4:05
News in Japanese
4:25
Report. Talk. Weekly Programme Notice
in Japanese or Music
4:40
News in German
Berlin
4:55
Report (every Tuesday Wednesday &
8:40 p m (Previous day)
Friday) Talk (every Thursday) in Ger.
man or Music
Sam" as
5:05
Music
for JLG 4
5:30
Week!y Programme Notice (every Satur
day) in German or Music
5:35
News in Italian
Rome
5:50
Report(every Monday. Tuesday Wednes
10.35 p m (Previous day)
day). Talk (every Friday). Weekly
Programme Notice (every Saturday)
in Italian
6:00
Music
Music
6:30
News in English
News in French
London. Paris
6:45
Report (every Thursday). Weekly Pro.
Report (every Monday. Wednesday &
9 30p m (Previous day)
gramme Notice (every Saturday). Talk
Friday). Weekiy Programme Not c
(every Sunday) in English or Music
(every Saturday) in French or Mus c
6:55
Music
Music
7:25
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
Concluding Announcenont Kimigayo
7:30
Close Down
Close Down
For LATIN AMERICA
Tokyo
8:00
9.30 a m
JLU 4
17,795 kc s
16.86 m.
GMT
23:00
0:30
Mexico City
5:00
6:30 p m (Previous day)
JL G 4
15.105 kc/s
19.86 m.
Buenos Aires
7:00
-8.30
Rio de Janeiro
8:00
9:30
(
Tokyo
JLU4 & JLG4
8:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
8:05
News in Spanish
Mexico City
5 05 p.m (Previous day)
8:20
Report. Talk in Spanish or Music
Buenose Aires 7 05 p.m (
8:35
News in Japanese
8:55
News in Portuguese
Rio de Janeir, 8 55p.m. (
9:10
Report (every Monday). Talk (every Saturday) in
Portuguese or music
9.25
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
9:30
Close Down
,”
For SOUTH AMERICA
Tokyo
6:00
7:00 p.m.
GMT
9:00
10:00
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m
Buenos Aires
5:00
6:00 a.m.
Rio de Janeiro
6:00
7:00
Tokyo
JZJ
6:00 p.m.
Opening Announcement
6:05
News in Japanese
6:25
Report Talk or Letters from Home in Japanese
6:35
News in Spanish
Buenos Aires
5:35 a.m.
6:45
News in Portuguese
Rio de Janeiro
6:45
6.55
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
7:00
Close Down

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
F.
For LATIN AMERICA
Ampliación de Nuestra Trasmisión
Se ha estado llevando a cabo desde el comienzo del presente año una gran ampliación de nuestra
trasmisión a ultramar, incluso la transmisión a Sudamérica.
Estamos trasmitiendo a trece direcciones durante cuarenta y una horas al dia, empleando dieciseis
idiomas inclusive el españo! y el portugués.
Lamentamos no disponer todavia de los detalles del programa y nos permitimos llamar la atención
sobre las horas en que transmitiremos.
Forman parte de este número los correspondientes al mes de abril.
Trasmision a la America Latina:
Trasmision a Sudamerica :
Ciudad de Mexico :
Buenos Aires : de 5.00 a 6.00 a.m.
de 5.00 a 5.30 p m. del dia anterior
Rio de Janeiro : de 6 00 a 7.00 a.m.
Buenos Aires :
de 8.00 a 8.30 p.m. del dia anterior
Rio de Janeiro :
6.00 a m. Apertura
de 8 00 a 9 30 p.m. del dia anterior
6.05
Noticias en español
8.00 a m. Apertura
6.25
Observaciones, conferencia o música
8.05
Noticias en español
6.35
Noticias en español
8.20
Observaciones. conferencia en español o
6.45
Noticias en portugués
música
6.55
Anuncio de cierre. Himno nacional
8.35
Noticias en japonés
7.00
Cierre
8.55
Noticias en portugués
9.10
Observaciones, conferencia en portugués o
música
9.25
Anuncio de cierre Himno nacional
9.30
Cierre
JZJ 11,800 kilociolos, 25.42 metros
JLG 4 15.105 kilogclos. 19.86 metros
JLU 4 17,795 kilociclos, 16 86 metros
Caros ouvintes das Américas Central e do Sul:
A
RAD:O Tóquio do Japão que está fazendo suas transmissões diárias para essa direção, péde Ihes a
gentilesa de ouvirem as irradiações desta Emissora e enviarem as suas impressões para o seguinte
endereço :
Departmento Internacional—Nippon Hoso Kyokai—Tokyo
O nosso programa é o seguinte:
Para as Américas Central e do Sul:
Para a América do Sul :
Hora japonesa, das 8,00 às 9.30
Hora japonesa, das 18,00 às 19,00
Hora brasileira, das 20.00 às 21,30 (dia anterior)
Hora brasileira, das 6,00 às 7,00
Hora mexicana, das 17,00 às 18.30 (idem)
Hora argentina, das 5,00 às 6,00
Hora argentina. das 19.00 às 20,30 (idem)
JLU4 -17.795 quilociclos -16 metros e
8ó centimetros
JZJ -11.800 quilocíclos 25 metros e 42 centímetros
JLG4 -15.105 quilociclos—19 metros e
86 centimetros
Ordem das irradiações (hora japonesa).
8,00—Abertura
Ordem das irradiações (hora japonesa)
8,05—Noticiàrio em espanhol e conferência, palestra
18,00 Abertura
em espanhol ou parte musical
18,05 -Noticiàrio em japonês e conferência, palestra ou
8,35—Noticiàrio em japonês
parte musical
8,55—Noticiàrio em português e conferência, palestra
18,35--Noticiàrio em espanhol
em portugués ou parte musical
18.45 Noticiàrio em português
9,25 -Despedida com o Híno Nacional japonês
18.55
Despedida com o Hino Nacional japonês
9,30 Encerramento
19,00
Encerramento.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
10
For NORTH AMERICA
For the Eastern Districts of North America
JLU4
17,795 kc/s
16.86 m.
Tokyo
10.00
12:00 a m
GMT
1:00
3:00
JLG 4
15,105kc/s
19.86 m
New York (FST)
8:00
-10:00p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JLU4 & JLG4
10:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
10:05
News in English
New York
8:00 p.m. (Previous day)
10:25
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Talk (every Thursday &
Saturday) or Japanese History Series (every Sunday)
10:35
Music
11:05
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) or Music
New York
9.05 p m (Previous day)
11:25
News in Japanese
11:45
Report or Talk in Japanese
11:55
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
12:00
Close Down
For the Pacific Coast of North America
JZK
15.160 kc s
19.79 m.
Tokyo
0.30
3.00 p m.
GMT
3.30
6:00
JZJ
11.800 kc's
25.42 m.
San Francisco
7:30
10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZK & JZJ
0:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
0:35
Report in Japanese
0:45
Talk in Japanese
0:55
Music
1:25
Letters from Home. Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
,”
or Music
1:35
News in Japanese
1:55
News in English
San Francisco
855 p m. (Previous day)
2:15
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Thursday).
Weekiy Programme Notice (every Saturday) or Music
2:25
"Let's Tune in " Hour (every Wednesday). Children's Hour
(every Saturday). Japanese History Series (every Sunday)
or Music
2:35
Music
2:55
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
”
3:00
Close Down
”
For HAWAII
Tokyo
3:30
5:30 p m
JL U 4
17,795 kc/s
16.86 m.
GMT
6:30
8:30
Honolulu
8:00
10.00 p m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JLU4
3:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
3:35
News in English
Honolulu 8.05 p.m. (Previous day)
8:55
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Thursday).
Weekly Programme Notic: (every Saturday) or "Let's
Tune in" Hour (every Sunday)
4:05
Music
”
4:30
News in Japanese
”
4:50
Report in Japanese
”
5:00
Letters from Home, Children's Hour or Music
”
5:15
Talk or Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
”
5:25
Concluding Announcement -Kimigayo
5:30
Close Lown

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
For AUSTRALIA and NEW ZEALAND
Tokyo
7:30- 8:25 p.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
10:30
11:25
Sydney, Melbourne
8:30
9:25 p.m.
Tokyo
JZJ
Wellington
10:00-10:55
7:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
7:35
News inEnglish
Sydney. Melbourne 8.35 p.m
7:50
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Saturday) or
Wellington
10:05 p.m.
Music
8:00
News in Japanese
8.20
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
8.25
Close Down
”
For CHINA and the SOUTH SEAS
Tokyo
8:00
11:30 p m.
GMT
11:00
12:30
JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
Singapore
6:20
9.50 p.m.
Java
6:30
10.00
Shanghai, Nanking. Canton. Foochow. Manila
7:00 10:30 p.m.
Tokyo
JZK
8.00 p.m.
Oponing Music
8:08
Announcement
8:10
News in Standard Chinese
8:25
Music
.8.30
Report inStandard Chinese
840
11
Weekly Programme Notice in Standard Chinese or Music
8:45
News in Cantonese Dialect
9:00
Music
9.03
Report in Cantonese Dialect
9:13
Music
9:15
News in FukieneseDialect
,”
925
Music
9:30
”
News in Japanese
945
Report in Japanese
9.55
Talk or Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
10:05
News in Dutch
Java
8.35 p m
1020
Report in Dutch (every Wednesday) or Music
10:25
New in English
Singapore 8:45
10:40
Music
Manila
9.25
10:50
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Saturday) in
English or Music
11:00
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) in English or
Music
11:10
News in Malay
Singapore 9.30 p.m
11:20
Music
Java
9.40
11:28
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
，”
11:30
Close Down
,”
KEPADA SEKALIAN PENDENGAR2 YANG TERHORMAT.
Tiap 2 hari dari Kongsi Penyiara Radio ini, warta berita yang terbaru dan boleh diperchaya tentang keadaan
dunia, buni-bunian bagus dan pidatou hal kebudayaan Nippon dikirimkan ke mana 2, selama 41 jam lamanya den-
gan 16 bahasa asing.
Isimiwa, kepada Pendengar 2 di Asia Selatan kita menyediakan programma yang mentenangkan sekali didalam
bahasa Melayu saban malam adanya.
Lagipula jikalau ada pikiran dan usul lain tentang penyiaran, haraplah diberikan tahu hal itu kepada Kongsi
ini.
Pemancher ;
J. Z. K.
Nippon.
Pukul;
11.10 11.30 malam
Kilocycle;
15,160
Singapura.
9.30 9.50
Meter;
19.79
Java.
9.4010.00
Kokusai-Bu c/o. Nippon Hoso Kyokai
Tokyo Nippon.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
12
For CHINA and the SOUTH SEAS
JAPANSCHE RADIO OMROEP IN HET
NEDERLANDSCH
de ontvangst. met, indien mogelijk,
Naar Shanghai, Canton, Nanking:
poratie zendt dagelijks uit in 13
bijzonderheden omtrent Uwe ontvangst-
Fuchow & Manilla tijd
richtingen, in 16 verschillende talen.
capaciteit.
van 7.00 tot 10.30am.
waaronder Nederlandsch Omroepuren
Uitzendingstijd. golflengte, karakter
Karakter der Uitzending:
per etmaal: 41.
der uitzending, enz., zijn als volgt:
Nieuws in het Nederlandsch Japansche
Het doel der uitzending is juiste
Naar China en het zuiden van den
tijd vanaf 10.05 Java tijd vanaf 8.35 nm.
berichten te geven omtrent de interna-
Stillen Oceaan :
Elken Woens lag avond, na afloop
tionale situatie, en den luisteraars een
der nieuwsuitzending, eene lezing in de
juist den beeld te geven van de Japan-
Zender JZ K. frequ ntie 15.160 kilocy-
Nederlandsche Taal. Andere avonden
sche cultuur. Wij stellen er derhalve
cles. golflengte 19,79 Meter. Uitzend.
muzick.
zeer veel prijs op, da: naar onze uit-
ingsund
In dezelfde richting, over hetzelfde
zendingen wordt geluisterd. en ver-
Japans he tijd van 8.00 tot 11.30nm.
zendstation JZK, worden nog nieuws
zoeken U beleeld van tijd tot tijd cen
Singapore tijd ., 6.20 ., 9.50nm.
in het Chineesch, Japansch, Engelsch &
en ander te willen rapporteeren ontrent
Java tijd
6.30, 10.00nm
Maleisch, alsmede muziek, uitgezonden.
For the SOUTH SEAS
Tokyo
8:30-11:40p.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc s
25.42 m.
GMT
11:30 14:40
JV W 3 11.725 kc's
25.59 m.
Bangko', Saigon. Hanoi
(from 10:05 p m)
6:30 - 9.40 p.m.
Canton, Foochow 7:30 10:40
Tokyo
JZJ & JVW3
8.30p m
Report in Standard Chinese
8.40
Music
847
News in Cantonese Dialect
9 00
Music
9:03
Report in Cantonese Dialect
9:13
Music
915
News in Fukienese Dialect
9:25
Music
9.30
News in Japanese
9.45
Report in Japanese
955
Talk in Japanese
10:05
Music
10.25
New in French
Bangkok. Saigon, Hanoi 8:25 p.m.
10:40
Report (every Sunday, Tuesday & Thursday), Talk (Friday)
in French or Music
10:50
Music
11:00
News in Thai
Bangkok 9:00 p m.
11.20
Report (every day except Monday) or Talk (every Monday)
in Thai
11:30
Music
11:38
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
11:40
Close Down
”
For CHINA
JOAK 2
870 kc/s
345 m.
Tokyo
10:24 11:15 p.m.
Canton, Manila
9.24-10:15 p.m.
Tokyo
JOAK 2
10:24 p.m.
Opening Announcement
10:25
News in English
Canton, Manila 9.25 p.m.
10:40
Music
10:50
News in Standard Chinese
11:10
11:00
”
”
Music
Concluding Announcement
11:15
”
”
Close Down
For Japanese Soldiers at the Front
Tokyo
6:00 -8:00 p.m.
JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
Nanking, Canton 5:00 7.00 p.m.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
For the SOUTH SEAS
A DESTINATION DES PAYS DES MERS DU SUD.
Postes d'émission :
Heures de transmission :
J. Z. J.
11,800 kc/s (25m. 42)
Heure de Tokio: 20h.30-23h.40
J. V.W.3
11,725 kc/s (25m. 59)
Heure de Hanoi, Saigon et Bangkok:
(à partir de 22h.05)
18h.30-21h.40
Heure de Tokio
22h. 05
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions en français
22h.07
Musique.
22h.25
Informations en français.
Hanoi. Saigon
20h. 25
22h.40
Récits historiques (dimanche). chronique hebdomadaire
(mardi), chronique de la vie japonaise (jeudi). causerie
(vendredi), annonce du programme de la semaine suivante
(samedi) en français, ou musique (autres jours)
22h.50
Musique.
23h. 00
Informations en thai
Bangkok
21h.00
23h. 10
Musique.
23h. 20
Informations spéciales ou causerie en thai
23h.38
Quelques mots pour la clôture des émissions en thai, hymne
national du Japon: le Kimigayo
23h. 40
Clôture des émissions.
Nous essayons par ces émissions internationales de faire
Zélande et de l'Australie, de la Chine et des Pays des Mers
connaître à nos auditeurs les informations exactes et promptes
du Sud, et du Front de l'Armée Impériale.
de la situation actuelle du monde entier. ainsi que tous les
En ce qui concerne les postes d'émission, les fréquences,
domaines de la culture japonaise. Nous vous prions. chers
les longueurs d'onde et les programmes, vous pouvez les
auditeurs, de nous faire savoir vos observations sur l'état d écoute
trouver dans le bulletin mensuel " Radio-Tokio". Nous vous
et sur nos programmes. ainsi que les sujets que vous voudriez
enverrons gratuitement ce bulletin mensuel, vous n'avez qu'à
entendre. Il sera préférable d'ajouter à votre correspondance
nous le demander.
le poste d'émission (longeur d'onde, fréquence) et l'heure con-
Outre l'annonce du programme par ce bulletin mensuel,
cernant les émissions que vous avez entendues.
vous pouvez entendre chaque vendredi (heure de l'Europe et
Notre Direction des émissions internationales transmet,
du Proche-Orient) l'annonce du programme de la semaine
en plus des émissions à destination de l'Europe. du Proche-
suivante. (IHeures de transmission : Heure d'Ankara: à 19h.
Orient et des Pays des Mers du Sud, celles à destination de
20; Heure d'Aden, Bagdad et de la Mecque: 20h.20; Heure
l'Asie du Sud-Ouest. des Amériques du Centre et du Sud, de
de Tehéran : 20h.50; Heure de Paris: 21h.45).
la Côte Pacifique et de la Côte Atlantique de l'Amérique du
Direction Générale des Emissions Internationales
Nord, des Iles Hawaii, de l'Amérique du Sud. de la Nouvelle
de la Radio-Tokio.
FREQUENCIES AND WAVELENGTHS
August, 1941
JZK
JZK
For Southwestern Asia
15.160 kc/s. 19.79 m.
For the Pacific Coast of North
15,160 kc/s., 19.79 m.
JZJ
America
JZJ
11,800 kc/s . 25.42 m.
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
JZK
For Near East
JZJ
15,160 kc/s., 19.79 m.
For Hawaii
JLU 4
17.795 kc/s., 16.86 m.
11.800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
JZJ
For South America
JZJ
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m
For Europe
11,800 kc/s, 25.42 m.
For Australia and New
JZJ
JLG 4
Zealand
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
15,105 kc/s., 19.86 m.
JLU 4
For China and the South Seas
JZK
15,160 kc/s., 19.79 m.
17,795 kc/s, 16.86 m.
For Latin America
JZJ
JLG 4
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
15,105 kc/s., 19.86 m.
For the South Seas
JLU 4
JVW 3
For the Easte.n Districts of
17 795 kc/s. 16.86 m.
11,725 kc/s., 25.59 m.
North America
JLG 4
For Japanese Soldiers at the
JZK
15.105 kc/s. 19.86 m.
Front
15,160 kc/s, 19.79 m.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.72)
Aine nnurnnfuifoutunu ufonuntghju
niinout .c0 Rlaldlñad
ann J2J
Buna b. 2n
niinnudo.de nlaldlnad
da In 
a0 JV3
Ln
U. 1299
nun 10.90 1. 22 00.60 1.
MIULC
 .0 1.  .0 .
lojou
BII 
lojou
mo.no . .no u.
VCBULAU
Foreign Department
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
. . . .
(The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)
0. . .6 .
uomnu aynd
.00..001.
Pun
60.00 U.
.0U.
9.em U.
2.0.
nun
●.
For Southwestern Asle
bu.05U.
..
For Near East
0o.1.
.1.
mun
m.
For Europe
bo.00 4.
.80 U.
no
6.
For Latin America
0.61.
6. U.
naLAU INCn
8.
For the Eastern Ditricts of Nor th America
6o.65 U.
.5U.
b. For the Pacific Coast of North America
o.0 1.
00.1.
nun
d.
For Hawall
BHIFFLLCLG
o. 1..1.
2.
For South Americe
.€...
6.
For Australia and New Zealend
(onnnu ovans wqua)
0.
For China and the South Seas
ussunu (Ang) ujo hunt
For Japanese Soldiers at the Front
nunī
. . . U.
For China
BnlLArC
mn.00 1. o.00 1.
nun
kn.1...
lmn. loo 11. lo. leo i1.
0
RADIO TOKYO  
(
lom.no 1. o.no .
mun
leam. nd 5.
0o..
Dndonü
..
bo.0U.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
RADIC
SEPTEMBER
1941
TOKY
No. 62
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
2
SHORT-WAVE BROADCAST FROM TOKYO
HE Broadcasting Corporation of Japan sends out short-wave transmissions as indicated by the
following chart.
Transmissions are pointed to 13 parts of the globe, the total transmission time amounting
to 41 hours a day in 16 languages. This means virtually that Japan's short-wave broadcasts cover
the entire world.
Special attention of the listeners is called to the fact that occasional changes in frequencies
and other technical details may be made inevitably upon the change of seasons. Please note
this bulletin each month, never taking it for granted.
Reports on your reception of, and reaction to, our programmes are solicited most eagerly.
The communications should be addressed to the
Foreign Department
Identification Signal
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
「he Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)
3
Tokyo, Japan
HIGHLIGHTS IN SEPTEMBER PROGRAMMES
OF NEWS INTEREST:
Glimpse of Japan Series
Light Music
by Singoro Takaisi, President of
I Quiz A merica Series
New Order Rhythm Orchestra
the Tokyo Niti Nits Newspaper
Personal Glimpse Series
Sugii and His Orchestra
CULTURAL:
Tokyo Life Series
(For the Pacific Coast of North
America)
My Life in Japan
to be broadcast for the Eastern
by Hazel Gorham
Districts and the Pacific Coast
Light Music
A Letter from Japan
of North America and Hawaii
Tokyo Broadcasting Orchestra
by Arthemise Goertz
FOR NISEIS :
Impressions
"Let's Tune In " Hour
For the date and the hour of
by R. W. Eastlake
for the Pacific Coast of North
the above broadcast, please listen
in to " the weekly advance notice"
Cultural Aspects of Japan
America to be broadcast at 9: 25
by Agnes Marine
p.m. every Tuesday, San Fran-
Kabul
9: oop m. every Friday
Colombo, Bombay. Calcutta
Japan Culture Series
cisco Time.
(1) Bunraku Marionette Show
FOR YOUNG BOYS & GIRLS
Rangoon
10:30 p m
9:30 p.m.
(2) Plain Water Fish—Rainbow Trout
Children's Hour
Ankara
8:15p.m.
presented by the Marine Bureau
to be broadcast every Friday; at
Mecca, Aden, Baghdad
of the Agricultural Ministry
9: 25p m. San Francisco Time.
9:15pm
(3) Stage Settirig for the Japanese
Interesting and beautiful stories
Teheran
9:45p.m
Theatre
are featured.
London
9:45p.m.
(4) Miniature Airplanes
SPECIAL MUSICAL FEATURE
New York 9: o5 p m.
SERIALS AND REGULAR FEA.
Nisei Concert
San Francisco
TURES:
presented by Miss Kiyoko Matu-
Honolulu
8:25 p.m.
9:15pm.
The following items are broadcast re-
kuma and Mme. Yosiko Maki-
Singapore
9: 15 p.m. every Saturday
by the Foreign Department of the Broad-
gularly every month, edited and produced
FROM OSAKA STUDIO
yama (Agnes Miyakawa)
Manila
9. 55 p.m.
”
casting Corporation of Japan.
The Japanese Noh Drama as I
THE FIRST WOMAN
History of Japan Series
see it
CONDUCTOR BEFORE
to be broadcast at 8: 25 p m.
by C.K. Parker. Lecture of the
THE MIKE
(New York) and 9: 25 p.m. (San
Osaka Higher School
Miss Mitiko Murayama, daughter
Francisco) on Second and Fourth
Department Stores around Kobe
of Nagataka Murayama, President
Saturdays
by Grace Stowe, of Kobe Wo-
of the Asabi Newspaper Company
American Landmark Series
men's College
made ber debut as ibe first woman
MUSIC:
to be broadcast for the Eastern
conductor of Japan as she appeared
Districts and the Pacific Coast
(For the Eastern- Districts of North
before the mike on May 31st, 1941,
of North America and Hawaii
America & Europe)
to perform for the overseas audience,
Japan Culture Series
Orchestra
accompanied by the Tokyo Broad-
Japan Broadcasting Symphony
to be broadcast at 8: 25 p.m.
casting Orches-
(New York), 9: 15 p.m. (San
Orchestra
Francisco), 8 : 25 p.m. (Honolulu)
Chuo Syphony Orchestra
tra. The selec-
on Friday; 8 : 50 p.m. (Sydney,
Tokyo Broadcasting Orchestra
tions included
Melbourne), 10: 20 p.m. (Wel-
Japan Young Men's Symphony
a symphony of
lington), 9 : oo p.m. (Singapore),
Chamber Music
ber own com-
9: 40 p.m. (Manila), 9 : 00 p.m.
Kadreitte Quartet
posion ; " The
(Kabul), 9: 30 p.m. (Colombo,
Brass Band
Day Break,
Bombay), 10: 30 p.m. (Rangoon),
Military Band
a Prelude
8: 15 p.m. (Ankara). 9:15 p.m.
Navy Band
and "The Un-
(Mecca, Aden, Baghdad), 9:45
Chorus
p.m. (Teheran), 9: 45 p.m. (Lon-
don) on Saturday
Japan Broadcasting Chorus
Vocal Four Chorus
phony" by
finished Sym-
Schubert.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.91)
For Southwestern A sia
Tokyo
0:00 - 1:55 a.m.
GMT
15:00—16:55
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
Kabul
8:00 – 9:55 p.m. (Previous day)
JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
Colombo, Bombay, Calcutta (IST)
8:30-10:25 p.m. (Previous day)
Rangoon
9:30 -11:25 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZJ
JZK
0:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
Opening Announcement
0.05
News in Burmese
News in Hindustani
Kabul 8.05 p m. (Previous day)
Colombo. Bombay. Calcutta
8.35 p.m. (Previous day)
Rangoon 9 35 p.m. (
0.20
Report (every Tuesday & Thurs
Report (every Tuesday Thursday
day). Talk (every Wednesday) in
& Saturday). Talk (every Wednes
Burmese or Music
day) in Hindustani or Music
0:30
Music
Music
0.45
News in English
Kabul 8 45 p.m. (Previous day)
Colombo. Bombay. Calcutta
9.15 p m. (Previous day)
Rangoon 10:15 p.m. (
1.00
Report (every Thursday & Satur
day). Weekly Programme Notice
(every Saturday). Talk (every
Same as for JZJ
Sunday) or Music
1.15
News in Japanese
1.35
Report or Talk in Japanese
1:45
Weekly Programme Notice in
Japanese or Music
1:55
Close Down
Close Down
P 94940 10012r21 201 9e 60 122221
 24 2  922 92
1024 202151 9032 00201 1 214 0 1000 20124 1005 101
2. ieg 2i 21 L i+e 2.
2007 9o 22 22a 9 a 4 1 5 rarsish 1-gra
ad  232 21 L-3021 90.24
31220230  99-2425
1nuze it 1 pmir stnrsivi 1orae  is  gar nt ar3nt242
379 2 1231 200 21 1 22 2 2
r181315 2321 900254 92-2 11 92-20.18 22150- 18924501202520091
021 204 12010 211 2013 304 171 1 4
72.2092.30120g 3 2
11 202 220112 2012 4
"12 4itr 13ur2t2, 12 ar30n220r
sitrinterer 3is srurr, nta13t srare"
2 . R JZK  1  J2K
3119n' 319 a212 a3312 ai1 Branai11

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.73)
For Southwestern
sia
gRofon
02 2.35
 8
on do
3= 33
8
no00
e-33
8
i202005
8
21
09 398
qugng
mou
. o9 lpmfofmamgnie- 29
For. Near East
1 
  (
  (r)
 .. ()
 ( 
. () 
() 
 ELNI (T)
()

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.98)
For Near
Tokyo
2:00— 3:30 a.m.
GMT
17:00—18:30
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
Ankara
7:00— 8:30 p.m. (Previous day)
JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
Mecca, Aden, Baghdad
8:00— 9:30 p.m. (Previous day)
Teheran
8:30—10:00 p.m.(
Tokyo
JZK & JZJ
2.00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
2:05
News in French
Ankara
7:05 p.m. (Previous day
Mecca, Aden, Baghdad 8:05
Teheran
8.35
2:20
Report (every Monday, Wednesday & Friday), Weekly Pro-
"
gramme Notice (every Saturday) in French or Music
2:80
Music
2:40
News & Report in Arabic (évery Tuesday, Thursday &
Ankara
7:40 p.m. (Previous day)
Saturday) or Music
Mecca, Aden, Baghdad 8:40
Teheran
9:10
2.55
Music
8:00
News in English
Ankara
8:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Mecca, Aden, Baghdad
9:00
Teheran
9.30
3:15
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday). Talk (every
Sunday) in English or Music
8:25
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
”
3:30
Close Down
”
LES EMISSIONS EN LANGUE FRANCAISE A DESTINATION DE
L'EUROPE, DU PROCHE-ORIENT ET DES PAYS
DES MERS DU SUD
L
A Radio-Tokio fait des émissions internationales pendant 41 heures (y compris les émissions simultanées) par jour et en
16 langues différentes.
Voici les postes d'émission, les heures de transmission et les programmes des émissions en langue française à destina-
tion de l'Europe, du Proche-Orient et des pays des Mers du Sud.
A DESTINATION DU PROCHE-ORIENT
Heures de transmission :
Heure de Tokio:
2 h.00— 3 h.30
Postes d'émission :
Heure d'Ankara:
19 h. 00—-20 h. 30 (jour précédent)
JZK
15,160 kc/s (19 m. 79)
Heure d'Aden, de Bagdad, et de là Mecque:
JZJ
11,800 kc/s (25 m. 42)
20 h. 00—21 h. 30 (jour précédent)
Heure de Téhéran : 20 h. 30—22 h. 00(
”
Heure de Tokio
2h.00
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions-
2h.05
Informations en français
Ankara
19 h.05 (jour précédent)
Aden, Bagdad, Mecque
20 h.05(
Téhéran
20 h. 35(
2h.20
Récits historiques (lundi), chronique hebdomadaire (mer-
credi), chronique de la vie japonaise (vendredi), causerie et
annonce du programme de la semaine suivante (samedi)
en français, ou musique
2h.40
Informations en arabe ou musique
Ankara
19 h. 40 (jour précédent)
Aden, Bagdad, Mecque 20 h. 40 (
Téhéran
21 h. 10(
2h.50
Musique
8h.00
Informations en anglais
Ankara
20 h.00 (jour précédent)
Aden, Bagdad, Mecque 21 h. 00 (
Téhéran
21h.30(
8h.15
Causerie, annonce du programme de la semaine suivante en
anglais, ou muaique
8h.25
Quelques mots pour la clôture des émissions, hymne national
du Japon: le Kimigayo
8h80
Clôture des émissions

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
HALLO! HIER SPRICHT TOKIO!
welt: 20:00-23:30 Uhr.MEZ
Sender, ihre Wellenlänge und Frequets:
(4.00-7.30 Uhr morgens am folgenden Tage
JZJ auf 25.42m11-800 kHz
japanischer Zeit)
JLG4 auf 19.86m 15 105 kHz
Jé nach Jahreszeiten und atmosphärischen Verhältnissen verändern wir unsere Sender von Zeit zu Zeit Näheres darüber
n wir bei der Ansage bekannt).
Aus dem September-Programm.
22:45 Sondervorträge, Vorträge, Ankündigung der Programme.
in englischer Sprache oder musikalische Darbietungen
Win möchten unsere deutschen Hörer besonders auf folgende
durch den ersten Sender und gleichzeitig Sondervor-
portliche Veranstaltungen aufmerksam machen, die wir durch
träge, Vorträge, Ankündigung der Programme in
Tonaufnahmen Ihnen übertragen werden:
französischer Sprache oder musikalische Darbietungen
1. Der erste Länderkampf im Amateurboxen zwischen
durch den zweiten Sender.
Japan und Deutschland, der im Korakuen-Baseball-Stadion in
22:55
Musikalische Darbietungen.
Tokio stattfinden wird. Wir werden am 3. September um
23:25 Absage und Nationalhymne.
20.55 Uhr MEZ den Tonbericht dieses Kampfes bringen,
23:30 Ende durch Sendezeichen.
wöbei Herr F. H. Handge, Mitarbeiter der Berliner Zeitschrift
Den Mittelpunkt der Sendungen bildet also der Nachrich-
Boxsport', den Verlauf des Kampfes erklären wird.
tendienst, der in jeder Sprache 15 Minuten lang durchgeführt
2. Der Japanisch-Deutsche Wassersport-Wettkampf, dessen
wird. Sie hören darin nicht nur von den wichtigen Ereignissen
Zeitpunkt noch unbestimmt ist.
in Ostasien, sondern auch über die japanischen Pressestimmen
3. Der Japanisch-Deutsche Hockey-Wettkampf, dessen
zu wichtigen weltpolitischen Geschehnissen. Wir möchten Sie
Zeitpunkt ebenfalls unbestimmt ist.
ausserdem auf unsern Vortragsdienst aufmerksam machen.
Der. genannte Herr Handge wird ferner anlässlich des
Im oben angegebenen Programm finden Sie zwei verschiedene
Boxkampfes einen Vortrag halten, dessen Titel "Berufs- und
Bezeichnungen:
Vorträge und Sondervorträge. Unter
Amateur-Boxsport in Japan sowie Vorschau auf den Länder-
Vorträgen sind diejenigen gemeint, die von in Japan lebenden
kampf Japan-Deutschland" heissen soll. Ausserdem bringen
Deutschen oder deutschen Besuchern oder auch deutsch
wir verschiedene Vorträge. So wird z. B. der Professor an
sprechenden Japanern über besondere kulturelle und sonstige
der Niigata Koto-Gakko, Herr Jakob Fischer, über einen
Themen gehalten werden. Dagegen werden die Sonder-
japanischen Roman und der Professor an der Mito Koto-
vorträge von den Mitarbeitern unserer Gesellschaft selbst
Gakko, Herr Kurt Bayer über das japanische Leben sprechen.
verfasst. Sie behandeln hauptsächlich aktuelle Probleme, aber
auch kulturelle Themata. Am Donnerstag bringen wir
Unsere Sendungen für Europa.
gewöhnlich Serienvorträge über kulturelle Themen, um Ihnen
Die Japanische Rundfunk-Gesellschaft führt Übersee-
umfassendere Kenntnisse übér unsere Kultur zu vermitteln.
Sendungen in 13 Richtungen durch. Die gesamte Sendezeit
Nicht zuletzt möchten wir auch auf unsere musikalischen
beträgt täglich 41 Stunden, wobei 16 Sprachen gebraucht
Darbietungen hinweisen. Ausser spezifisch japanischer Musik
werden. Das Programm für Europa gestaltet sich folgender-
hören Sie auch fast jeden Tag europäische Musik, die Jedoch
massen:
zum grossen Teil vón japanischen Künstlern ausgeführt wird.
20:00 Uhr MEZ (4:00 Uhr am folgenden Tage japanischer
Über deren Auffassung bezw. Wiedergabe der abendländi-
Zeit) Ansage.
'schen Meisterwerke der Tonkunst erhalten wir seit Jahren
20:05 Nachrichtendienst in japanischer Sprache.
ständig anerkennende Zuschriften von dortigen Hörern. Wie
20:25 Vorträge in japanischer Sprache oder musikalsche
oben angegeben, verkünden wir an jedem Freitag um 21.25
Darbietungen.
Uhr das Programm der folgenden Woche im voraus.
20:40 Nachrichtendienst in deutscher Sprache.
Zum Schluss möchten wir uns an unsere Hörer mit einer
20:55. Sondervorträge (am Montag, Dienstag und Donners-
Bitte wenden. Wir haben nämlich grosses Interesse dafür,
tag), Vorträge (am Mittwoch) in deutscher Sprache
wie unsere Sendungen von Ihnen empfangen werden, ob
oder musikalische Darbietungen.
unsere Programme Ihnen gefallen usw. Wir sind daher stets
21:05
Musikalische Darbietungen.
sehr dankbar für Berichte und Anregungen Ihrerseits und
21:25 Musikalische Darbietungen oder Ankündigung der Pro-
bitten Sie, möglichst ausführlich Ihre Empfangsverhältnisse
gramme für die folgende Woche in deutscher Sprache
anzugeben, besonders die Namen unserer Sender, Wellenlänge,
(am Freitag).
Frequenz, Sendezeit, Inhalt der Sendung usw. Unsere Adresse
21:35 Nachrichtendienst in italienischer Sprache.
finden Sie unten angegeben.
21:50 Sondervorträge, Vorträge oder Ankündigung der Pro-
Vorliegende Druckschrift, welche monatlich erscheint, erhält
gramme für die folgende Woche in italienischer
jeder auf Verlangen kostenlos zugesandt.
Spreche (am Freitag).
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAÍ, Kokusaibu,
22:00
Musikalische Darbietungen.
Uchisaiwai-cho, Kojimachi, TOKIO.
22:30 Nächrichtendienst in englischer Sprache durch den
(Auslandsabteilung der Japanischen Rundfunk-
ersten Sender, und gleichzeitig in französischer Sprache
durch den zweiten Sender.
Gesellschatt, Tokio).
A DESTINATION DE L'EUROPE
Heures de transmission :
Postes d'émission: J. Z. J. 11,800 kc/s (25m. 42)
Heure de Tokio:
4h.00- 7h. 30.
Heure de Paris:
19h.00-22h. 30 (jour précédent)
Heure de Tokio
4h 00
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions.
4h05
Informations en japonais.
4h25
Informations spéciales, causerie en japonais ou musique.
46.40
Informations en allemand.
4h.55
Informations-spéciales, causerie en allemand ou musique.
5h.06
Musique.
5h.85
Informations en italien.
6h.50
Informations spáciales, causerie en italien, ou musique.
Informations en français.
Paris 21h. 30
Régite histuriques (lundi), chronique hebdomadaire (mercredi), chronique de la vie japonaise
(jour précédent)
(vendredi), causerie et annonce du progrmme de la semaine suivante (samedi) en français, ou
Quelqusa mots pour la clôture des émissions, hymne national du Japon; le Kimigayo.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
For Europe
LA NOSTRA TRASMISSIONE PER L'EUROPA
TRASMISSIONI IN LINGUA ITALIANA
Q
UESTO ISTITUTO RADIOTRASMISSIONI DEL
Trasmissione per l'Europa :
GIAPPONE sta trasmettendo giornalmente, per l'Europa,
Onde: JZJ 11.800 kilocicli 25.42 metri;
in lingua italiana, quale un reparto delle sue attività per l'estero
JLG4 15.105 kilocicli 19.86 metri.
che vengono fatte in 13 direzioni in 16 varie lingue per la
Orario : Ora del Giappone 4.00-7.30
durata di 41 ore ogni giorne. L'ora delle trasmissioni, le
Ora in Italia 20.00-23.30 del giorno precedente.
Programma del reparto italiano :
lunghezze delle onde elettriche, il contenuto del programma
Dalle 21.35 (ore italiane)
ecc. del reparto italiano sono come indicati qui sotto.
Notiziario degli avvenimenti
Queste radiotrasmissioni vengono fatte per dare, non solo
Dalle 21.50 (ore italiane)
le ultime notizie esatte degli avvenimenti nell'attuale situazione
Commenti d'attualità: (dom. lun. mart. merc.)
mondiale. ma anche schiarimenti su varì campi della cultura
Conferenza: (giov.)
giapponese. Quindi questo Istituto prega vivamente i radio-
Annunzio del programma della settimana seguente: (ven.)
ascoltatori di volergli inviare giudizi ecc. di qualsiasi genere
Ora pei bimbi: (sab.)
sulle trasmissioni. L'indirizzo è
Dalle 22.00 (ore italiane)
Musica ed altri trattenimenti:
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
Oltre a ciò vi sono, nelle trasmissioni per l'Europa, Notiziarì
(Seztone Estero)
degli avvenimenti, Commenti d'attualità, Conferenze, Musica
Tokio. Giappone.
ecc. in giapponese, tedesco, francese e inglese.
Qui riproduciamo il programma mensile, di cui ogni venerdì
verrà annunciata la parte della settimana seguente.
PROGRAMMA DELLE
11 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
21 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
TRASMISSIONI
(Conferenza) Come è stata importata
Commento d'attualità;
larte vinicola italiana in Giappone:
(Racconto) Episodio patriottico nella
SEPTEMBRE 1941
Romanziere Kimura Ki;
guerra in Cina.
1°lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Cultura. folklore) Sul romanziere
22 lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità ;
Ozaki Coh-yoh.
Commento d'attulità ;
(Giappone d oggi) Coltivazione di
12 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Giappone d'oggi) La storia della
perle in Giappone.
Annunzio del programma settimanale;
diffusione della radio in Giappone.
2 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Note sul calendario) Letteratura
giapponese sulla luna.
23 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Note sul calendario) Minaccia dei
Commento dattualità;
13 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità;
tifoni.
(Ora pei bimbi) "Hiyoco no o-sampo
(Note sul calendario) Le operazioni
3 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Passeggiata dei pulcini);
militaric nel mese di settembre.
Commento d'attualità;
(Lettura) Il Gen. Noghi e il piccolo
24 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Teatro, musica) Sui racconti umori-
venditore ambulante di tsugi-ura.
Commento d'attualità ;
stici Racugo
14. dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Teatro, musica) Teatro del mese di
4 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità ;
settembre.
(Conferenza) Idealismo nell'arte di
aggiustare i fiori : Maestro Massuda
(Racconto) L'amore disperato di
Cogoh.
25 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Kihoh;
15 lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Conferenza) Le industrie domestiche
(Cultura, folklore) Il poeta Saighioh.
in Giappone: Padre Margiaria;
Commento d'attualità;
5 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Cultura, folklore) L'Inferno buddi-
Annunzio programma settimanale;
(Giappone d'oggi) Industrie della
stico.
provincia di Ocayama.
(Note sul calendario) Bellezza e
16 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
26 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
utilità dell'albero Haze, " Rhus
succedanea".
Commento d'attualità;
Annunzio del programma settimanale;
6 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti:
(Note sul calendario) L'autunno del
(Note sul calendario) Avvenimenti
(Ora pei bimbi)  Omma no suzu
Giappone turistico.
principali interni nel mese di set-
(Campanellini di cavallo);
17 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
tembre.
(Lettura) Nacae Toh-giu, il " Saggio
Commento d'attualità;
27 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
di Oh-mi ".
(Teatro musica) I due attori comici :
(Ora pei bimbi) " Awate ussaghi"
7 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Roppa ed Enoken.
(Coniglio frettoloso);
Commento d'attualità ;
18 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Lettura) Raccolta abbondante d'au-
(Racconto) Episodio patriottico nella
(Conferenza) Le donne giapponesi
tunno.
guerra in Cina.
dal punto di vista demografico:
28 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
8 lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità ;
On. Ayacawa Takegi;
Commento d'attualità ;
(Giappone d'oggi) Il giornalismo in
(Cultura, folklore) Le opere del dram-
(Racconto) Momigi-gari (Gita in cerca
Giappone.
maturgo Cicamatsu Monzaemon.
di aceri)—episodio storico.
9 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
19 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
29lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità;
Annunzio del programma settimanale;
Commento d'attualità ;
(Note sul calendario) Aki no nana-
(Note sul calendario) L'acero ed i
(Giappone d'oggi) Pollicoltura in
10 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
cussa, " Le sette erbe d'autunno".
20 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti ;
cervi.
Giappone.
Commento d'attualità;
(Ora pei bimbi) " Coro-coro co-inu "
30 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Teatro, musica) I contributi dei
(Cagnolini rotolanti);
Commento d'attualità;
ciechi nei progresso della musica
(Lettura) L'industria chimica "silk-
(Note sulcalendario) I! sentimentali-
inGiappone.
wool".
smo di scigure, pioggia autunnale.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
For Europe
Tokyo
4:00 - 7:30 a.m.
GMT
19:00 22:30
JLG4
15,105 kc/s
19.86 m.
London, Paris (GMT)
7:00 10:30 p.m.
(Previous day)
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
Berlin (CET)
8:00 11:30
Rome (EET)
9:30 p.m. 0:30 a.m. (
Tokyo
JLG4
JZJ
4:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
Opening Announcement
4:05
News in Japanese
4:25
Report. Talk, Weekly Programme Notice
in Japanese or Music
4:40
News in German
Berlin
4:55
Report (every Tuesday. Wednesday &
8.40 p m (Previous day)
Friday) Talk (every Thursday) in Ger
man or Music
5:05
Music
Same as
for JLG 4
5:30
Weekly Programme Notice (every Satur
day) in German or Music
5.35
News in Italian
Rome
5:50
Report (every Monday. Tuesday Wednes
10.35 p.m. (Previous day)
day), Talk (everyFriday). Weekly
Programme Notice (every Saturday)
in Italian
6:00
Music
Music
6.30
News in English
News in French
London, Paris
6:45
Report (every Thursday). Weekly Pro
Report (every Monday. Wednesday &
9 30 p.m. (Previous day)
gramme Notice (every Saturday). Talk
Friday). Weekly Programme Notice
(every Sunday) in English or Music
(every Saturday) in French or Music
6:55
Music
Music
7:25
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
7:30
Close Down
Close Down
JorLatin America
Tokyo
8:00
9:30 a m
JL U 4
17,795 kc/s
16.8€m
GMT
23.00
0:30
Mexico City
5:00
6:30 p m. (Previous day)
JL G 4
15,105 kc's
19.86 m.
Buenos Aires
7:00
-8:30
Rio de Janeiro
8:00
9.30
Tokyo
JLU4 & JLG4
8:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
8:05
News in Spanish
Mexico City
y 5 05 p m (Previous day)
820
Report, Talk in Spanish or Music
Buenose Aires 7:05 p m (
8 35
News in Japanese
8.55
News in Portuguese
Rio de Janeiro 8.55p.m (
9.10
Report (every Monday). Talk (every Saturday) in
Portuguese or music
925
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
9.30
Close Down
Jor SouthAmerica
Tokyo
6:00 - 7:00 p.m.
JZJ 11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
9:00-10:00
Buenos Aires
5:006:00 a.m.
Rio de Janeiro
6:00 7.00
Tokyo
JZJ
6.00 p.m.
Opening Announcement.
6:05
News in Japanese
6:25
Report, Talk or Letters from Home in Japanese
6:35
6:45
6.55
”
Concluding Announcement.– Kimigayo
News in Spanish
News in Portuguese
Buenos Aires
Rio de Janeiro
6.45
5.35 a m.
7:00
，”
Close Down
，”

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
9
JorLatin America
Ampliación de Nuestra Trasmisión
Se ha estado llevando a cabo desde el comienzo del presente año una gran ampliación de nuestra
trasmisión a ultramar, incluso la transmisión a Sudamérica.
Estamos trasmitiendo a trece direcciones durante cuarenta y una horas al dia, empleando dieciseis
idiomas inclusive el español y el portugués.
Lamentamos no disponer todavia de los detalles del programa y nos permitimos llamar la atención
sobre las horas en que transmitiremos.
Forman parte de este número los correspondientes al mes de abril.
Trasmision a la America Latina :
Trasmision a Sudamerica :
Ciudad de Mexico :
Buenos Aires: de 5.00 a 6.00 a.m.
de 5.00 a 5.30 p.m. del dia anterior
Rio de Janeiro : de 6.00 a 7.00 a m.
Buenos Aires :
de 8.00 a 8.30 p m. del dia anterior
Rio de Janeiro :
6.00 a.m. Apertura
de 8.00 a 9.30 p.m. del dia anterior
6.05
Noticias en español
8.00 a.m.
Apertura
6.25
Observaciones, conferencia o música
8.05
Noticias en español
6.35
Noticias en español
8.20
Observaciones, conferencia en español o
6.45
Noticias en portugués
música
6.55
Anuncio de cierre. Himno nacional
8.35
Noticias en japonés
7.00
Cierre
8.55
Noticias en portugués
9.10
Observaciones, conferencia en portugués o
música
9.25
Anuncio de cierre. Himno nacional
9.30
Cierre
JZJ 11,800 kilociolos, 25.42 metros
JLG 4 15,105 kilociclos, 19.86 metros
JLU 4 17,795 kilociclos, 16.86 metros
Caros ouvintes das Américas Central e do Sul:
A
RADIO Tóquio do Japão que está fazendo suas transmissões diárias para essa direção, péde-lhes a
gentilesa de ouvirem as irradiações desta Emissora e enviarem as suas impressões para o seguinte
endereço :
Departmento Internacional—Nippon Hoso Kyokai—Tokyo
O nosso programa é o seguinte:
Para as Américas Central e do Sul :
Para a América do Sul :
Hora japonesa, das 8.00 às 9,30
Hora japonesa, das 18,00 às 19,00
Hora brasileira, das 20,00 às 21,30 (dia anterior)
Hora brasileira, das 6,00 às 7,00
Hora mexicana, das 17,00 às 18,30 (idem)
Hora argentina, das 5,00 às 6,00
Hora argentina, das 19,00 às 20,30 (idem)
JLU4—17.795quilociclos—16 metros e
86 centimetros
JZJ—11.800 quilocíclos—25 metros e 42 centímetros
JLG4—15.105 quilociclos—19 metros e
86 centimetros
Ordem das irradiações (hora japonesa).
8,00—Abertura
Ordem das irradiações (hora japonesa)
8,05—Noticiario em espanhol e conferência, palestra
18,00—Abertura
em espanhol ou parte musical
18,05—Noticiàrio em japonês e conferência, palestra ou
8,35—Noticiàrio em japonês
parte musical
8,55—Noticiàrio em português e conferência, palestra
18.35—Noticiàrio em espanhol
em português ou parte musical
18.45 —Noticiàrio em português
9,25—Despedida com o Híno Nacional japonês
18.55—Despedida com o Hino Nacional japonês
9,30—Encerramento
19,00—Encerramento.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
10
For North America
For the Eastern Districts of North America
JLU4
17,795 kc/s
16.86 m.
Tokyo
10.00—12:00 a.m.
GMT
1:00—3:00
JLG4
15,105 kc/s
19.86 m.
New York (EST)
8:00—10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JLU4 & JLG4
10:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
10:05
News in English
New York
8:00 p.m. (Previous day)
10:25
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Talk (every Thursday &
Saturday) or Japanese History Series (every Sunday)
10:35
Music
11:05
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) or Music
New York
9:05 p.m. (Previous day)
11:25
News in Japanese
11:45
Report or Talk in Japanese
11:55
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
12:00
Close Down
For the Pacific Coast of North America
JZK
15,160 kc's
19 79 m.
Tokyo
0:30-3:00 p.m.
GMT
3:30—6:00
JZJ
11.800 kc's
25.42m.
San Francisco
7:30—10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZK & JZJ
0:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
0:35
Report in Japanese
0:45
Talk in Japanese
0:55
Music
Letters from Home, Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
or Music
1:35
News in Japanese
1:55
News in English
San Francisco
8:55 p.m. (Previous day)
2.15
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Talk (every Thursday),
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) or Music
2:25
"Let's Tune in" Hour (every Wednesday). Children's Hour
(every Saturday). Japanese History Series (every Sunday)
or Music
2:35
Music
2:55
Concluding Announcement - Kimigayo
3:00
Close Down
FJor Hawaii
Tokyo
3:30—5:30 p.m.
JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
GMT
6:30—8:30
Honolulu
8:00—10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZK
3:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
3:35
News in English
Honolulu 8:05 p.m. (Previous day)
3:55
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Talk (every Thursday).
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) or "Let's
Tune in" Hour (every Sunday)
4:05
Music
4:80
News in Japanese
4:50
Report in Japanese
5:00
”
Ietters from Home, Children's Hour or Music
5:15
Talk or Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
5:25
Concluding Announcement—Kimigayo
5:80
”
Close Down

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
ForAustad New Zeald
Tokyo
7:30— 8:25 p.m.
JZJ 11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
10:30—11:25
Sydney, Melbourne
8:30—9:25 p.m.
Wellington
10:00--10:55
Tokyo
JZJ
7:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
7:35
News in English
Sydney, Melbourne 8:35 p.m
Wellington
10:05 p m.
7:50
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Saturday) or
Music
8:00
News in Japanese
8:20
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
8:25
Close Down
For China and th South Seas
,”
Tokyo
8:00-11:30 p.m.
GMT
11:00—12:30
Singapore
6:20— 9:50 p.m.
JV Z 11,815 kc/s
25.39 m.
Java
6:30—10:00
Shanghai, Nanking, Canton, Foochow, Manila
7:00-10:30 p.m.
Tokyo
JZK
8:00 p.m.
Opening Music
8:08
Announcement
8:10
News in Standard Chinese
8:25
Music
8:30
Report in Standard Chinese
840
Weekly Programme Notice in Standard Chinese or Music
8:45
News in Cantonese Dialect
9:00
Music
9:03
Report in Cantonese Dialect
9.13
Music
9:15
News in Fukienese Dialect
9.25
Music
9:30
News in Japanese
9:45
Report in Japanese
9.55
Talk or Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
10:05
News in Dutch
Java
8:35 p.m.
10.20
Report in Dutch (every Wednesday) or Music
1025
News in English
Singapore 8:45
10:40
Music
Manila
9.25
10:50
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Saturday) in
English or Music
11:00
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) in English or
Music
11:10
News in Malay
Singapore 9:30 p.m.
11:20
Music
Java
9:40
11:28
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
11:30
Close Down
KEPADA SEKALIAN PENDENGAR2 YANG TERHORMAT.
Tiap 2 hari dari Kongsi Penyiara Radio ini, warta berita yang terbaru dan boleh diperchaya tentang keadaan
dunia, buni-bunian bagus dan pidatou hal kebudayaan Nippon dikirimkan ke mana 2, selama 41 jam lamanya den-
gan 16 bahasa asing.
Isimiwa, kepada Pendengar 2 di Asia Selatan kita menyediakan programma yang mentenangkan sekali didalam
bahasa Melayu saban malam adanya.
Lagipula jikalau ada pikiran dan usul lain tentang penyiaran, haraplah diberikan tahu hal itu kepada Kongsi
ini.
Pemanchar;
J. V. Z.
Nippon.
Pukul;
11.10-11.30 malam
Kilocycle ;
11,815
Singapura.
9.30-9.50
”
Meter ;
25.39
Java.
9.40-10.00
Kokusai-Bu c/o. Nippon Hoso Kyokai
Tokyo Nippon.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
For Chinaand the South Seas
JAPANSCHE RADIO OMROEP IN HET
NEDERLANDSCH
de ontvangst, met, indien mogelijk,
Naar Shanghai, Canton, Nanking :
poratie zendt dagelijks uit in 13
bijzonderheden omtrent Uwe ontvangst-
Fuchow & Manilla tijd
richtingen, in 16 verschillende talen.
capaciteit.
van 7.00 tot 10.30nm.
waaronder Nederlandsch. Omroepuren
Uitzendingstijd, golflengte, karakter
Karakter der Uitzending:
per etmaal: 41.
der uitzending, enz., zijn als volgt:
Nieuws in het Nederlandsch Japansche
Het doel der uitzending is juiste
Naar China en het zuiden van den
tijd vanaf 10.05 Java tijd vanaf 8.35 nm.
berichten te geven omtrent de interna-
Stillen Oceaan :
Elken Woensdag avond, na afloop
tionale situatie, en den luisteraars een
Zender JV Z. frequentie 11.815 kilocy-
der nieuwsuitzending, eene lezing in de
juist denkbeeld te geven van de Japan-
Nederlandsche Taal. Andere avonden
sche cultuur. Wij stellen er derhalve
cles. golflengte 25,39 Meter. Uitzend.
zeer veel prijs op, dat naar onze uit-
ingstijd:
muziek.
In dezelfde richting, over hetzelfde
zendingen wordt geluisterd, en ver-
Japansche tijd van 8.00 tot 11.30nm.
zendstation JVZ. worden nog nieuws
zoeken U beleefd van tijd tot tijd een
Singapore tijd
in het Chineesch, Japansch, Engelsch &
en ander te willen rapporteeren ointrent
Java tijd
6.30
10.00nm.
Maleisch, alsmede muziek, uitgezonden
For the South Seas
Tokyo
8:30-11:40p.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
11:30-14:40
JVW 3 11,725 kc/s
25.59 m.
Bangkok, Saigon, Hanoi
(from 10:05 p.m.)
6:30— 9:40 p.m.
Canton, Foochow 7:30—10:40
Tokyo
JZJ& JVW3
8:30 p.m.
Report in Standard Chinese
8:40
Music
8:45
New in Cantonese Dialect
9:00
”
Music
9:03
”
Report in Cantonese Dialect
9:13
Music
9.15
News in Fukienese Dialect
9:25
”
Music
9.30
”
News in Japanese
9:45
”
Report in Japanese
9.55
Talk in Japanese
10:05
Music
10:25
News in French
Bangkok, Saigon, Hanoi 8:25 p.m
10:40
Report (every Sunday, Tuesday & Thursday), Talk (Friday)
”
in French or Music
10:50
Music
11:20
11:00
”
”
Report (every dey except Monday) or Talk (every Monday)
News in Thai
Bangkok 9:00 p.m.
in Thai
11:30
Music
11:38
”
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
11:40
”
”
Close Down
Jor China
JOAK 2
870 kc/s
345 m.
Tokyo
10:24—11:15 p.m.
Canton, Manila
9:24—10:15p.m.
Tokyo
JOAK2
10:24 p.m.
Opening Announcement
10:25
News in English
Canton, Manila 9.25p.m.
10:40
”
Music
10:50
”
News in Standard Chinese
11:00
”
Music
11:10
”
Conciuding Announcement
11:15
”
Close Down
”
For Japanese Soldiers at the Front
Tokyo
6:00-8:00 p.m.
JVZ
11,815 kc/s
25.39 m.
Nanking, Canton 5:00—7:00 p.m.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
13
Jor the South Seas
A DESTINATION DES PAYS DES MERS DU SUD.
Postes d'émission :
Heures de transmission :
J.Z. J.
11,800 kc/s (25m. 42)
Heure de Tokio: 20h.30-23h.40
J. V.W.3
11,725 kc/s (25m. 59)
Heure de Hanoi, Saigon et Bangkok :
(à partir de 22h.05)
18h.30·21h.40
Heure de Tokio
22h.05
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions en français
22h.07
Musique
22h.25
Informations en français
Hanoi. Saigon
20h.25
22h. 40
Récits historiques (dimanche). chronique hebdomadaire
(mardi). chronique de la vie japonaise (jeudi) causerie
(vendredi), annonce du programme de la semaine suivante
(samedi) en français, ou musique (autres jours)
22h.50
Musique.
23h. 00
Informations en thai
Bangkok
21h00
23h. 10
Musique.
23h. 20
Informations spéciales ou causerie en thai
23h. 38
Quelques mots pour la clôture des émissions en thai. hymne
national du Japon: le Kimigayo
23h. 40
Clôture des émissions.
Nous essayons par ces émissions internationales de faire
Zélande et de I'Australie. de la Chine et des Pays des Mers
connaître à nos auditeurs les informations exactes et promptes
du Sud. et du Front de l' Armée Impériale.
de la situation actuelle du monde entier, ainsi que tous les
En ce qui concerne les postes d’émission, les fréquences,
domaines de la culture japonaise. Nous vous prions. chers
les longueurs donde et les programmes, vous pouvez les
auditeurs, de nous faire savoir vos observations sur l'état d'écoute
trouver dans le bulletin mensuel  Radio-Tokio". Nous vous
et sur nos programmes, ainsi que les sujets que vous voudriez
enverrons gratuitement ce bulletin mensuel, vous n'avez qu'à
entendre. il sera préférable d'ajouter à votre correspondance
nous le demander
le poste d'émission (longeur d'onde, fréquence) et l'heure con
Outre l annonce du programme par ce bulletin mensuel,
cernant les émissions que vous avez entendues..
vous pouvez entendre chaque vendredi (heure de l'Europe et
Notre Direction des émissions internationales transmet.
du Proche-Orient) lannonce du programme de la semaine
八四廣東語新聞
en plus des émissions à destination de l'Europe, du Proche-
suivante. (Heures de transmission: Heure d'Ankara : à 19h.
Orient et des Pays des Mers du Sud, celles à destination de
20; Heure d Aden. Bagdad et de la Mecque : 20h 20; Heure
I'Asie du Sud-Ouest, des Amériques du Centre et du Sud. de
de Tehéran : 20h.50; Heure de Paris: 21h.45).
la Côte Pacifique et de la Côte Àtlantique de l'Amérique du
Direction Genérale des Emissions Internationales
Nord, des Iles Hawaii, de l'Amérique du Sud, de la Nouvelle
de la Radio-Tokio.
FREQUENCIES AND WAVELENGTHS
廣東後七四五
September, 1941
JZK
JZK
For Southwestern Asia
15,160 kc/s., 19.79 m
For the Pacific Coast of North
15,160 kc/s , 19.79 m.
JZJ
America
JZJ
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
JZK
15,160 kc/s., 19.79 m.
JZK
For Near East
For Hawaii
15.160 kc/s, 19.79 m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
For South America
JZJ
九三音樂
JZJ
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
For Europe
11,800 kc/s, 25.42 m.
For Australia and New
JZJ
JLG 4
Zealand
11,800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
15,105 kc/s., 19.86 m.
JLU 4
For China and the South Seas
JVZ
11,815 kc/s, 25.39 m.
17,795 kc/s., 16.86 m.
For Latin America
JZJ
JLG 4
15,105 kc/s., 19.86 m.
For the South Seas
11.800 kc/s., 25.42 m.
JLU 4
JVW 3
For the Eastern Districts of
17,795 kc/s., 16.86 m.
11,725 kc/s., 25.59 m.
North America
JLG 4
For Japanese Soldiers at the
JVZ
15,105 kc/s., 19.86 m.
Front
11,815 kc/s, 25.39 m.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.74)
  dd
AImb nnusnajuujouIJunu uJonunfqiu
 J2J
niinaud .co0 Rlalolnad
BU7AIAAU 5.E 129S
 V3
nicnnut o.des nlalolnad
nnaldonuanun Ine donyn
Bu .9
 o.00 1.  m.0 1.
MOCI
nn .90 1.  .60 .
と
lojou
mnd
U
lovou
4
mo.o 1. .no 1.
LDnannu unanul
nnuanounou
Foreign Department
....
nun
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broadcesting Corporation of Japan)
0O.U.
d.66 U.
29.00 U.
.∞ 1.
Pun
bo.om U.
.091.
109.0m 1.
.01.
nun
5.
For Southwestern Asia
2
o.0.
..
For Near East
0o.u.
..
nun
9.
For Europe
100.00 11.
.01.
6.
For Latin America
00.661.
8.66 1.
5.
For the Eastern Districts of Nor th America
00.851.
5.55 U.
b.
For the Pacific Coast of North America
nun
0o.06 1.
0o.01.
t.
For Hawa11
10o.51.
o. 1.
2.
For South America
.6u.
.011.
8.
For Australia and New Ze-land
(Onny JAn wqa)
O.
For China and the South Seas
uu (gn) ujo unt
For Japanese Soldiers at the Front
o.1..1.
nun
For China
BnlLArcL
.001. .00 1.
.0.
lo.1.
nunt
imm. loo 1. lo. loo 1.
UNANINIAENINU
RADIO TOKYO 
() ()   
2
lom.mo u. bo.mo u.
- lmn. md 1. mo.ma 1.
aynduh 
.. .1.
Dnann

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
TO THE SÉCRET
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
July 25, 1941
PAYNE
JUL 23 1941
Ast dafle(pul, 2
Division of
FAR EASTAN ARS
LMOEAVE
Department of State
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
State Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Enclosed is a special report dealing with developments
on the Japanese radio which seemed to foreshadow a move
toward Southeastern Asia.
894.76/50
Unfortunately, until our reorganization plan is approved,
we are unable to study the Japanese material until several
days after it has been transmitted. With the speed-up
that we are now planning, we would have been in a position
to give you this information some days ago.
894.76
At this time we are issuing Spot Bulletins and Special
Reports despite the fact that the Foreign Broaccast Moni-
toring Service is still in its preliminary stages, so that
it is as yet unable to issue the projected series of regular
daily reports.
This is being sent to you in accordance with the plans for
routing material worked out in a recent conference between
representatives of the State Department and of the Foreign
Broadcast Monitoring Service.
SEP
Sincerely yours,
LED
ay
6 1941
PS/AG
Chairman

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
(COPY)
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
State Department
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Enclosed is a special report dealing with developments
on the Japanese radio which seemed to foreshadow a move
toward Southeastern Asia.
Unfortumately, until our reorganization plan is apuroved,
we are unable to atudy the Japanese material until several
days after it. has been transmitted. With the speed-up
that we are now planning, ve would have been in a position
to give you this information some days ago.
At this time we are Issuing Spot Bulletins and Special
Reports despite the fact that the Foreign Broa cast Moni-
toring Service i still in ite preliminary stages, so that
it is as yet umable to issue the projected series of regular
daily reports.
This is being sent to you in accordance with the plans for
routing material worked out in a recent conference between
representatives of the State Lepartment and of the Foreign
Broadoast Monitoring Service.
Sincerely yours,
James Lawrence Fly
Chairman

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
FEDERAL COLMUNICATIONS COLMISSION
FOREIGN BROADCAST MONITORING SERVICE
cial Report #2
July 22, 1941
TOKYO BROADCASTS TO NORTH AJERICA
June 23 to July 18
Intense preoccupation with Southeastern Asia dating back to the
outbreak of the Soviet-German War is evident in Tokyo radio from June
23 to July 18. The other disting ishing characteristic of broadcasts
during this period is an apparent weakening of Axis ties.
These two trends appear simltaneously and are reinforced by
the increased emphasis in radio commentary on Japan's independent
national policy. Reconstructior of Konoye's Cabinet on July 18 only
serves to underline the Tokyo ralio picture of Japanese policy as
becoming increasingly self-cons:ious, diciplined, and totalitarian
but less Axis-oriented.
The basis for these inferences includes:
a. Mounting hostiliy toward Britain and the United States,
including belligerent rea tion to British "military preparations
in southeast Asia."
b. Protest against "Third Pover encirclement" of Japan in
rumors of Anglo-Chungkin, alliance.
c. Atrocity storie: and reports of anti-Japanese activities
in Indo-China.
d. Studied neutraliy vis a vis the Soviet-German ar.
The pattern of treatment f Southeastern Asia shows remarkable
similarity to that which has p eviously preceded the Japanese moves
in that direction.
SOUTHEASTERN ASIA
"American Provocations:"
The stage for such a new orientation was set by July lst when
reports of increased American ir aid to Chungking were played up
with lengthy quotations from te Tokyo Nichi Nichi:
"It would be fair t, assume," the paper asserts, "that the
United States does not vish to fight Japan, to fight in the Orient

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
any more than Japan. If this is so, the reported American aid to
Chungking certainly does not improve the matter in any way. It
provides no material threat to Japan but it succeeds in offending
the Japanese Government. If there is anything that Japan would
not tolerate, it is the spread of the European conflict to East
Asia and undermining activities of the Third Powers against the
proposed establishment of a friendly sphere in this part of the
world."
The line is continued on July 2 in a report attributed to
Shanghai:
"The United States still sticks to the anti-Japanese
policy, extending its aid to Chungking in the field of finance,
aviation and other war materials and further dispatching military
advisers to consolidate defenses at such bases as Singapore,
Manila and others in co-operation with the British. Not content
with this, America's instigating hands have been extended to
the Netherlands East Indies against Japan in the Far East."
On July 5th, again commenting on arrival of arms in Burma, is the following:
"Officials in Tokyo pointed out that the Japanese Govern-
ment is not sitting idly over-looking such hostile acts under
its very nose."
"Third Power Encirclement:"
On July 2nd, and repeated on July 13th, are reports "from Bangkok"
of increased British military and air concentrations on the Burmese
and Jandalay frontier of Thailand. On July 12th the following report
"from Nanking" was heard:
"British maneuvers heve culminated in the conclusion of a
military alliance with the Chungking regime in Burma and the
Malayan Peninsua. The alliance were also reported to stipulate
the establishment of a general staff of the Allied Army under
Air Marshell Brooke-Popham, Commander-in-Chief of the British
forces."
The importance attached to this rumor is shown by extensive press
opinion quoted on the same day, and by the following comments:
"Close attention is now being paid by various circles to
the threatening attitude on the part of Britain when there is no
apparent reason for it."
Indo-China:
Supplementing this line are sporadic reports which are sugges-
tive of present and future Japanese diplomatic pressure in Indo-China.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
nclude alleged mistreatment of pro-Japanese Annamite elements and
r of a Japanese citizen in the French Concession at Hangkow.
REACTIONS TO SOVIET-GERIAN WAR
In contrast to a feigned or real belligerence in the southern
sector, the radio exhibits a comparative indifference in its treat-
ment of the Soviet-German War and a remarkable lack of concern for
the Siberian area. While news reports of hostilities in Europe are
largely of German origin, there is no specific anti-Soviet comment,
nor is there any reaffirmation of Axis ties. American aid to the
Soviet is given cursory disapproval as being contrary to expressed
American rinciples, but accent on blockade is lacking, as is news
and comment on reported Soviet mining operations off Vladivostock.
Neither is mention made of Japanese troop movements to the North.
On the contrary, an interview of the Japanese iinister in Woscow
with Foreign Commissar Molotov is reported as follows on July 16,
and again on July 18:
"During this interview the Soviet Foreign Commissar is
understood to have explained that the newly concluded Anglo-
Soviet military agreement applies only to the present conflict
with Germany."
An attitude of suspended action is definitely indicated in the
Tokyo radio's treatment of Russia.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.93)
July 25, 1941
reply refer to
My dear Mr. slowie:
The reeeipt 1s aoknewledged, with thanks, of your
Commissien's letter of July 23, 1941 in regard to your
Menitoring Serviee and enclosing a copy of Special
Report no. 2 dated July 22, 1941.
We are sure that your reports will be of interest
to us and mueh appreslate your courtesy in making them
894.76/50
available. May I suggest that, in addition to copies
sent te the Division of Far Eastern Affairs, a copy be
soat direet to the office of Mr. Stanley K. Hormbeek,
Adviser on Political Relations, Department of State.
Sineerely yours,
Marvell N. Hamilton
Chier
Division of Far Eastern Affaire
PS/AG
Nr. T. J. Blevie
DA
Seeretary, Federal
ak
Communieasione Commission,
Washington, D. 0.
Inal
GA
FE:GA:FRE
FE
7-24

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.94)
CR
FE
Federal Bureau of Juvestigation
Anited States Department of Justice
Mashington, D. U.
RECEIVED
August 19, 1941
AUG 2 2 1941
PERSONAL AND 
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
ASSISTANT
Washington, D. C.
894.7651
AUG 20 1941
MR. BERLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
interest I am forwarding herewith translated
transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan
for the period of July 24, 1941 to July 27, 1941,
inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
ILED
1. Be. doover
Enclosures
PS/AG
C
d.u
WA
AUG 20 1941
DECLASSIFIED
Jushec Deparbment Gudines, 1-24 1984
By RiG
NARS. Date 5.16.4984

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
ation JLU4 Program
Date 7/27/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Naniwa-bushi
News:
News of Japanese Government's order to freeze
American credit in retaliation of America's order to freeze
Japanese credit. In regard to America's freezing of Japanese
credit, the Minister of Finance.,........... yesterday stated as
follows: "America has taken steps to freeze Japanese assets
in America, but sinee we, in anticipation of this step, have
been preparing against this, our assets in Anerica are not much.
Besides, since trade between America and Japan has been decreas-'
ing, of late, due to America's strengthening of her restrictions,
its economic effect upon our country will be comparatively small.
Since are fully prepared, we are thinking of coping with the si-
tuations as they arise."
In regard to the joint defense agreement between Japan'
and French Indo-China end Aterica's freezing of Japanese credit,
the director of the inforration bureau stated as follows in a
domestic broadcast yesterday: "The joint defense agreement be-
tween Japan and French Indo-China was brought about by the peace-
ful desires of both nations and is far more peaceful that America
occupying Iceland. If Anerice is going to increase her oppression
against Japan by invoking the freezing: of Japanese assets, how can
she hope to accomplish anything peacefully? As for Japan, who
desires to preserve peace on the Pacific, she cannot help but de-
vise a retaliatory measureagainst such oppressive measures brought
about by lack of understanding and since complete preparations
are already made, it is sincerely hoped that the nation will place
their wholo-hearted confidence in the ections of the Government
and maintain their calmness." A orica has now invoked the freez-
ing of Japaneso assets, but our country has been preparing for
this und has withdrawn the sreater part of her assats from America
its offeet upon her will not be great. However, as a rotaliatory
measure, she has docided -to ............ the trade of the fo ign.
As a result, America, instead, will suffor.
News of England's invocation of the measure to freeze
Japan's assets and notification to abrogeto trado relations with
Japan. Similar measures are being planned with British possess-
ions.
News of the editorials of the newspapers of Tokyo in re-
gard to the joint defenso agroemont between Japan and America.
Tho gist of the editorials is that America, through lack of under-
standing, has invoked measures to fre.ze Japan's assets in America
and if sho does not realizc her mistake, she will aggravate the
situation all the more.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
age #2
News of the opinions voiced in Ja an's financial and
commercial circles. The gist of the opinions is that such mea-
sure was anticipated and that Japan has no other alternative but
to follow, her fixed policy.
News of America's announcement to place the Philippine
force under the control of American cormand. Aim obviously is
to threaten Japan.
News of the formation of patrol forces along the Pacific
coast by the 12th Naval District. Fishing vessels and pleasure
craft to be conmandeered into these forces.
News of Assistant Secrectry of Navy Forestal's flight
to Hawaii for inspection of the American fleet. Said Secretary
said, prior to his Coparture, that the American fleet is prepared
to meet any eventuality.
News of the evacuation of Chungking's representatives
from French Indo-China due to the conclusion of the joint defense
agreement between Japan and French Indo-China.
News of the decision of the Dutch Eest Indies Airway
Company to terminate its service between Batavia and Saigon
from July 26.
News of the Russo-Germen war. As a whole, German troops
making steady progress.
News of raid of England by German air force.
News of raid of British convoy by Italian eir for ce in
the Mediterranean and also bombing of Nalta.
Japanese music.
Comment on Current Events:
Topic "England und America's schene and the signi-
ficance of the joint defense of French Indo-China": In the comment
on current evenbs of July 22nd, and another of sometime ago. we
saw in full the internaticnal situation, especially the situation
of the nations of est Asia and of the soith brought about b the
development of the Russo-Cerman war, and what we noticed and stated
out aloud is that the sch me of England and America to disrupt
Ecst Asia is progressin with surprising rapidity and speed. We
saw that they used Chungking as their tool, enticed the Dutch East
Indies and secretly negotiated with Soviet Pussia and developed
their position of checking Japan into that of encircling Japan.
For this purpose, they have threatened, French Indo-China,

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
e#3
oppressed Thailand and strengthened their fortification over a
wide area marked off by Singapore, Hongkong, Manila, Burma and
Malay, thus greatly solidifying their position to attack Japan.
Ye also pointed out that thsi not only is a matter of grave concern
for Japan, but also is a great threat toward the whole of East
Asia. During past several days, this trend has been furthered
all the more by Amerim with Secretary of State Welles making public
a statement somewhat similar to a threatening note in regerd to the
discussiou with Ambassador Nomura on behalf of Secretary of State
Hull on July 24 and President Roesevelt's order to freeze Japanese
assets in America. The announcement of the joint dofense agree-
ment of French Indo-China, which comprises one of the important
elements of the Greater East AsiaMutual Prosperity Sphere, on
July 26 by the Japanese Covernment at such a time of tension must
be said to be of great significance. This certainly can be said
to be the final key to the Japan-French Indo-China relations, which
recently had been taking & tuin for the better, and which this un-
derstanding as the start, there is no room for doubt that the re-
lations between Japan and French Indo-China will become all the
more friendly and closer, This agreement hasbeen concluded be-
cause it would be impossible for French Indo-China to defend her
domain with her own strencth in view of the condition of her mother
country, France, and this weaknoss will be taken advantage of by
England, in cooperation with Chungking. As has boen repeatedly
stated in previous news, England hes been preparing to invade
French Indo-China with her native troops from the south and Chung-
king's troops from the north and has been waiting for an opportune
moment to carry this threct out. (Record indistinct) It is prac-
tically impossible for French Indo-China to defend horself cgainst
the allied troops England and Chungking. Only by cooperating with
Japan can France avoid the danger of losing French Indo-China.
Consequently, the Vichy Government should immediately undertake
diplomatic negotietions with Japan to further cooperetion with
Japan. Thus, the novwspapers of France commented upon the situa-
tion and urged the Covernment to take action. On the other hand.
it is only proper for Japan, as leader of the Greater Eest Asia
Mutual Prospority Sphere, to be unable to ignore such & grave
situation existing within the sphere. The mission assigned tc
Japan and (Record faded down into the noise). (When the talk re-
sumed, it mentioned the negotiations that had been carried on be-
tween French Indo-China and Japan from the time of Yosuko Hatsucka
reign as foreign minister.) Thus, the relations botween Japan
and French Indo-China has become so friendly and closo and has re-
sulted in the conclusion of this agreement. Nevertheless, this
agreement was concluded by Japan for the purposo of keeping intact
the Greater East Asia Mutual Prosperity.Consequently, it is
needless to mention that Japen will respect the integrity and
rights ef French Indo-China, for this agreoment is not aggressive

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
age #4
as those of the other powers, nor is it a prelude of Japan's
armed debouchement. Instead, it was based on Japan's peaceful
aim of defending French Indo-China from the aggression of the third
powers. It can be said that this proves that Japan's attitude in
regerd to the problems of the south is still of a peaceful and
economic nature in spite of the current incident. What we would
like to mention in closing is America's measure to freeze Japan's
assets in Americe. Since this has been anticipated, our Covern-
ment has made preparations to cone with the situation and is pre-
pared to take wha tever action necessary.
IEusic
Talk on increesed production of food by Mr. Gunjiro
Matsuda (His office was not mentiered.)
Music (Japanese)
National Anthem

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
atio JLU4 Program
ate 7/26/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Station was off the air from 0759
to 0810 GMT).
Jepenese music (Hursery tunes)
Gidayu (Japanese operatic music)
Request for information on the reception dondition of
the new frequency.
Tomorrow's program.
Theme song.
Japanese national unthem.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
cion JLU4 Program
ate 7/25/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Last half hour recorded.)
Japanese Music
Comments on Current Events:
To talk on the publication or the Kokumin-No-Sho
(Nation's Text-Book)": This text-book is made up of three chapt-
ers: The first chapter explains the creation of a new world or-
der, the second deals with the international situation and the
course to be taken by the nation and the third stresses the put-
ting into practice of the course to be taken by the nation. The
first chapter begins with the middle ages and explains the im-
perialistic trend of the various nations and how it was stimulated
all the more by the World Var, which strengthened the supremacy
of England, America and France. It explains how Japan in Asia
and Germany in Europe has risen to break this supremacy. In other
words, to save the small nations of the orld, which hed become
the colonial settlements of England, America and France through
their sinister schemes, Japan has risen in East Asia to create
a new order, followed by Germany, who is attemoting to reconstruct
herself and create a new order in Europe, thus bringing about
the second European war. Thus, the first chapter explains the
developments up till the outbreak of the second European war.
The attitude of why the old order must be liquidated is, in other
words, the tradition of tradition of creation of a new order, and
the chapter on the course of tho nation fully stresses the signi-
ficance of the creation of this new order and deeply anal zing
this from various angles, it explains the attitude to be taken
by the nation, as follovs: "To liquidate the oppression of the
American and European nations, such as England and America, wno
had been maintaining their prosperity at the expense of the small-
er nations, Japan rose up in 1932 to save Manchuria and urged her
to become independent. After establishing lanchuria as an indepen-
dent nation, she has beeh strivin; to create lasting peace in
East Asia." In otherwords, the transition of the present vorld
trend, namely, from tho old order into the nev order, is regerded
as having started from the independence of anchurie. With the
independence of Manchuria as the start, this new trend has expand-
ed into the Near East and the nations of the south, such as Turkey,
Arabia, Thailand, Burma and India, which had been under the oppres-
sion of the American and European nations. However, due to the
long years of tradition, nany of the smaller nations thouit it
only proper to remain under the control of the American and Eu-
ropean nations. A typical example of this is China. In other
words, Japan has risen to cnlighten China, strengthen the colla-
boration between Japan and China, create a now sphere of Mutual

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.98)
ge #2
Prosperity and existence and create a new order in East Asia,
besides contributing toward the establishment of world peace.
Since world peace cannot be expected to created at once, the
creation of a new order in East Asia can be said to be the first
step toward the establishment of world peace. Consequently, Japan
will fight to the end until collaboration with a new China is es-
tablished. This has been repeatedly stated end is Japan's fixed
policy. This is strongly stressed in the Nation's Text-Book.
Thus, the creation of a strong national defense is necessary. In
other words, it means the creation of a national solidarity in
which economic and diplomatic moves are made to act in concert
with the armed force to accomplish our country's policy. The
creation of this national solidarity of Japan, as leader of East
Asia and a powerful nation to bring about worid peace, is most
important end shculd be accomplished as early as possible. Thus,
the Nation's Text-Book stresses that the people should serve their
country with the "Nation First" idea in order to create this na-
tional solidarity.
Japanese music
Discussion on the sale of baby bonds
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese national anthem.
##

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 7/24 (or 23)/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
News:
Konoye's message to Wang Ching-wei, sent yester-
day, explaining that no chenge will be made in Japan's policy
in spits of the chenge of cabinet.
Opinion of government circle of Japan that no change
will be made in Japan's fixed policy.
Japanese Ambassador to England Shigemitsu's call on
Foreign Minister Toyoda to report the condition in England yester-
day.
Delayed errival of Vice-Admiral Boshiro Hosokaye, former
cormander of the Japanese fleet in Central China, who has been
assigned to naval general staff. as expected to arrive in Tokyo,
today, but will arrive tomorrow afternccn.
Arrival of General Seishiro Itagaki in Keijo to take
over his new post.
Return of General Hata, supreme cormander, to Nanking
after completion of his inspection tour of the military facili-
...... und Shanghai.
Operation of Japanese troops in ............ making
steady progress (Record indistinct). Result of operation to date
200 killed, 10 captured and 20 light machine-guns and 50 rifles
taken.
5600 Chinese troops surrendered to Japanese troops at
a place south of the Yangtze River. (Soundec like Hupeh prov.)
Chinese troops to assist J: panese troops in the restoration of
peace.
Direct wireless comrunication between Shanghai and
Buenos Aires to be established form next month. Formerly,
wireless messages releyed through Sen Francisco, but new line
established in view of international confusion.
Arrival of Japanese delegation in Bangkok on July 22.
To discuss boundry matters with Thailand representatives and
head for Saigon on about July 26.
Maj. General Sunida's discussion with Covernor-General
De Coux for over an hour yesterday. Discussion expected to be
continued today.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
ge #2
German air force raided Moscow yesterday and today.
Reportedly destroyed regions near Kremlin and other places with-
in the city. However, Russian announced only slight damage.
German air force sank two British ships off North
Africa (?) and also raided the military facilities of Sues
Canal. On the other hand, British air force raided German mili-
tary facilities in Denmark on July 22.
German government ordered the Bolivian minister to
Germany to leave t e xountry within three (?) days, in retalia-
tion to the action of the Bolivian government ordering Germany's
minister to Bolivi to leave the country as an undesirable foreign-
er. Germany is regarding this as America's sinister influence in
Central and South America and as America's challenging attitude
toward Germany.
Claiming that there is no other way but for France to
cooperate cctively with Japan in order to :intain her colonial
settlements in the Far East, a newspaper of Paris published the
following editorial in regard to French Indo-China: If France
wants to defend French Indo-China, it is necessary for her to
cooperate with Japan. If she does not take this action, there
is & possibility of & greater crisis breaking out. This can be
avoided only by cooperating with Japan. To cooperate with Japen
France should devise a diplomatic measure.
(Record very indistinct).(Something about the British
Governor-general of India teking new steps to prepare Br the em-
ergency in tho Far East and adding Ghandi's representatives to
some kind of conmittee to win over Ghandi's followers.)
(Recorder's note: uality of transmission very poor
on this series.)
Conment on Current Events:
To talk on the coalition of England, America,
Russia and Chungking: A month has pa: sed since the outbreak
of wer between Germany end Russia. During this time, fierce
fighting has been staged between German and Russian troops along
the whole front stretching fonn the Finnish border on the north
to the Black Sea on the South. On reviewing the developments of
the war, it seems that the German troops have maintained a su-
perior position right along and the defeat of the enemy has be-
come obvious. After only a month of the war, considerable truth
can be seen in Germeny's announcement that the greater part of
the Russian air force has been destroyed, and the same can be
said of the success of the German mechanized troops.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
#3
Thus, the German troops have captured Smolensk and are now but
120 kilometers away from the Stalin line. Besides, in the north,
German troops are advancing toward Leningrad from the north and
south. Even in the south, downfall of Kiev has become imminent.
(Mentioned Stalin's assumption of the post of Minister of War
as an indication that the war has reached its climax; and as a
step to prepare against internal revolution.) Together with
Soviet Russia, who is worrying about her downfall, are America
and England and Chungking, which is continuing its resistance
with the aid of England and America, and also the Dutch East
Indies, which is trying to preserve her existence through coali-
tion with England and America. For what particular reason are
they shivering with fear to such an extent? The reasons are as
follow: Chungking is fearing that Japan might undertake a great
push into the interior with the defeat of Soviet Russia becoming
imminent and ceuse her complete downfall. As for England,she is
fearing that Japan might threaten her possessions and interests
in East Asia. As for Dutch East Indies, she voluntarily refused
to become a part of the greater East Asia Mutual Prosperity Sphere
and due to this stubbornness and unwise attitude of hers; she is
fearing each and every move that Japan might make. Thus, she is
simultaneously trying to ally herself firmly with England and
America. On the other hand, England and Amerida are desperately
to preserve their interests in East Asia through their aid to
Chiang Kai-shek. Furthermore, they are stretching their sinister
hands toward Theiland, not to mention the Dutch East Indies, and
are striving to make Thailand anti-Japanese and take on the brunt
of their anti-Japanese blockade. That such collaboration among
England and America, and also Chungking has become all the more
open with the devolopment of the Russo-German war is appearing
in various forms and shapes must be said to be the greetest con-
cern of Japan. Those that have already been reported in news
are the Chungking's troops' preparation to march into French
Indo-Chine in accordance with the military agreement between
........ and the Do Guallists, England's preparation to
march inot French Indo-China in accordancy with the military
agreement between .............. and the De Guallists, England's
preparation to cooperate in this move and send her native troops
to Southern French Indo-China, England, America and Dutch East
Indies' retaliatory action toward Fronch Indo-China's collabora-
tion with Japan, tho Chungking Covernmont's plan to hold a con-
ferenco with reprosentativos of England, America and Soviet
Russia on July 26th, the proposed plan to station about 135 Bri-
tish planes of tho Singapore patrol in tho interior air fields
of the Chungking Govornmont; the arrivel of 150 pilots and avia-
tors, ispatched by America, at .......... with many more pre-
pared to come from Manila, the statoment of the American authori-
ties that war materials, consigned for Chungking, will arrive
at ............. shortly, the roport that Owen Lattimore, Ameri-
can military edvisor at Chungking, is attompting to negotiate
peace betweon Chungking and the communist army to make America's

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
#4
aid more effective and England's concentration of large forces
along the borders of Thailand and Malay and Thailand and Burma
to check(?) Thailand's rapprochement toward Japan and disrupt
the establishment oof a mutual prosperity sphere. In addition
to this, England and Americe have put up a joint front and are
intimidating (?) Thailand to conclude an econimic agreement.
Just at this time, the British government reorganized her cabin-
et. (Mentioned the changes made but these heve been omitted be-
cause of the poor condition of the record, making it very diffi-
cult to translate.) If Britain's past Far Eastern plicies are
considered, it is not difficult to ascertain the motive of this
change. In other words, this change has been made to accelerate
the disruption of the establishment of a Greater East Asia Mu-
tual Prosperity Sphere based on the closer cooperation among
America, Chungking and Dutch East Indies and to realize Brisish-
American collaboration in the Far East. That is, in view of the
fact that the Anglo-Russian alliance brought about by the out-
break of war between Ru sia and Germany has had no effect in Eu-
rope, it is the intention of Great Britain to manifest this al-
liance most strongly in the far east. To explain this in a con-
crete form, it is a scheme to realize the alliance between Eng-
land and Russia, which is the point of contact for Chungking, and
form a challenging array, backed and covered by America, against
Japan. On considering the developments of the Russo-German war
and the accompanying schemes of England, America and Chungking,
we cannot help but say that the situation in East Asia is very
critical. We would like to end today's comment by stating that
if England and America's disruption of the establishment of an
East Asia mutual prosperity sphere and .. ................. are
of an inevitable nature, we should risk the fate of our country
end fight against it for the creatin of an East Asia Mutual
Prosperity Sphere end a new order in East Asia.
Japene se Music
Domestic News (Kanto Districts)
Kanagawa Prefecture: News of the graduation exer-
cise of the military academy. News of cross-country race held by
the Athletic Federation of Kanagawa.
Shiga Prefecture: News of round-table conference
pertaining to tho functions of light-housos hold at a certain
light-house in Shiga Prefecturc, and broadcast thoughout Japan
through JOAk on July 20, the newly designated Sea Holiday.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.98)
#5
News of an athletic meet to select representatives for
the athletic meet to be staged at Meiji Jingu Field. News of
installation of motor on the training ship
p. Kaiyo Iaru. News
of construction of a gym to imbue into youths the real Japanese
spirit.
Ibaraki Prefecture: News of the celebration of a cer-
tain shrine's summer festival.
Gurria Prefecture: News of some kind of Festival held
at a certain Shrine. News of a plan to construct a gym for youths
in a certain shrine in Kawachi Vi lage.
Tochigi Prefecture: News of a grass cutting contest,
sponsored by the Farmers' Association and the local chapter of
the National Support Society.
Saitama Prefecture: News of increased production of
second grade tea in Saima district.
Tokyo Prefecture: News of the opening up of a camp for
youths to build up their bodies.
Japanese Music
Theme Song.
##

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.94)
Fr
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DJRECTOR
ASSISTANT
Nederal Burean of Juuestigation
SEP 12 1941
Anited States Department of Juatire
MR. BERLE
Washington, D.U.
September 11, 1941
RECEIVED
PERSONAL AND 
SEP1 6 1941
DIVISION ON Hongsable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
D-isionof
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
epartment of State
1941
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest I am transmitting
herewith copies of translated transcripts of broad-
6
8
casts from Tokyo, Japan for the period August 1, 1941
.76/52
to August 10, 1941.
Sincerely yours,
Ra. aAorover
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
PSFR
SEP 12 1941
4W
SEP16 1941
FILED
Justicc Depactment Guidelrires, 1-27 1984
NARS, Date 5.16.1984
ByR1G

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Progran
Date 8/1/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocyoles.
News :
News of the conclusion of a loan agreement betvween Yokahama
Specie Bank and the banks of Thailand. Probably to be signed today and be-
come effective inmediately. By this agreement, trade between Japan and
Thailand to be continued as usual.
News of Lt. Gen. Iida's statement in regard to the landing
of Japaneso troops, under his command, in French Indo-China. Expressed
his appreciation for the fine cooperation of the people and gave his promise
for the accomplishment of the aim of the joint defense agreement.
News of the statement of the governor-general of French
Indo-China in regard to the joint defenso agreement. Stated that French
894.76/52
Indo-China is now prepared to thwart any British attempt of invasion.
News of tho oditorials of the newspapers of French Indo-
China welcoming the action of Japan and urging tho government of French
Indo-China to manifest a stronger attitude toward Chungking.
News of the rogular cabinet's meeting held today. Minister
of Finance Ogura reported on the condition and result of the regulations
2
to freezo foreign assets, folloved by Minister of Commerce Sakonji's ro-
port on the effect of the other powers' invocation of the regulations to
frecze Japanesu assets and Foreign Minister Toyoda's report on the dip-
lomatic probloms centering around freezing acts.
PSFR
News of tho addition of Australia, Burma and British Malay
to the list of nations, whose assets have been frozen.
News of tho observation of Rising East Asia Day (The first
of every month has been designated as this day).
Nows of Japanese troops' operations in China: Japanese
troops reportedly are making great progress in their operation against
tho Chineso troops in thc mountainous regions in tho northern part of
Shensi or Shansi Provinco.
News of tho return of Hici Maru and Asuma Laru to Yokohama
today.
News of celebrations being held in Nanking and other places
to colobrato tho rccognition of the Nanking government by the axis pow-
ers.
Appointment of Seikan Watari (?), general affairs direct-
or of the Chiba prefoctural govornmont, as successor to Akagi, assistant
chief of public works of Shanghai, who was assassinated sometimo ago.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
News of the success of direct wireless communication between
Hsingking, Manchoukuo, and Berlin, Germany, tried yesterday. Direct ser-
vices to bo installed on about the tenth of this month.
News of Ancrican's plan to occupy Spain's Canary Island. Based
on UP dispatch from Manila.
News of Russo-German war: German air force again raided Moscow
on July 30. No damago sufforcd according to Russia roport. According to a
communique of the German High Command, the encirclemont movement of the Ger-
man troops in the northern rogions has resulted in the capturc of seven div-
isions of Russian troops. Bosidos, in rogions near Smolensk, German air
force destroyed 27 Russian guns, 33 Russian tanks and 40 motor lorries, while
in the south the German troops succossfully repulsed the Russian counter-
attack.
News of German submarines sinking 24,O00 tons of British ships
on tho Atlantic.
News of German air force raiding the air field in Northern
England.
Comment on Current Events:
To talk on why Japan had to reinforce her troops in French
Indo-China: With the oxecution of our troops' debouchment into Southern
French Indo-China in accordance with the joint dofense agrcement of French
Indo-China, our marines have been landed in great numbers at Saigon and the
neighboring regions and are putting up a magnificent appearance for the
preservation of peace in Southorn Asia. By this, it can be oxpected that
the cooperation of French Indo-China tovard our country in evory aspect will
become all the more keen in the future, not to mention the manifestion of
joy expressed by the people of French Indo-China currently for the as-
surance of peace. Now, let us consider why it was necessary for our troops
to undertako this action. That it wss an important action for French Indo-
China, which has come to understand the unshakable determination and motive
of our country, which is striving for the croation of an East Asia mutual
prospority spherc, to join hands with our country and strike against the
activities of the third powors is needlcss to mention, but the thing that
necessitatcd the xcoution of this action is the cordon forned by the
hostilo forces of England, Anerica, Chungking, and her allies. In other
words, the secret moves of Enland, Chungking and the Dogaullists, who are
aiming for the resources and territory of Fronch Indo-China, coupled with
the attitudo of America to support and spur them on, and the strongthening
of the unscrupulous anti-Japaneso bloc wero things that absolutely could
not be overlooked for the security of Japan and French Indo-China and for
tho peaco of greater East Asia. In rogard to this, it has been repeatedly
mentioned in nows and previous corments, but today we will comnont on this
basod on reports recently received from reliable sources. When it is re-
vealcd how serious and outragcous (?) the actions of tho third powers in

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
connection with our country and French Indo-China are, you will probably
realize the necessity and appropriatenoss of the action taken in French Indo-
China. In as much as our impregnable defense against their move has been laid,
it is our expectation that the various conspiracies and moves of this group
of tho third powers will be absolutoly thwarted. Honce it is clear that
Japan will march toward the acconplishment ofhor great ideal. At the same
time, we would like to mention that various measures and national footing,
to deal with this directly and indirectly aro boing gradually porfected and
then talk on the topic of today. Recently, rumors to the effect that England
and Chungking are considcring the conclusion of a military agreement have
boen received. In fact, we beliove that this has already been concluded,
for the following facts have been roported by a newspaper of Thailand and
revealed in broad daylight. That is, England has decided to send war
materials to India, Burma and Chungking and use Singapore as tho center for
the shipmont of those gcods, to build an air plane factory in Singapore and
send the air plancs built thcre to Chungking, to make the Chinesc and natives
of the south support (?) the Anglo-Chinese alliance and mobilize the mun
power and resources of the south in an emergency (?) and to bring the Chung-
king troops southward with the outbreak of war between Japan and England and
place them under thc control of the connander of tho British Far Eastern
force, besides the strengthening of the Anglo-Chinese defense along the
Burma and Burma-Yunnan routes. Furthermore, in an intervicw with American
newspapermen sonetime aco, the comnander of the British Far Eastern force
statcd, "Since Burma, Thailand, Fronch Indo-China, Malay, the Strait Set-
tlements, Dutch East Indics and Australia have a strong and inseparable
relations, if one of them should be attacked by a third powers, all the
other inevitably will be drawn into the conflict", thus attempting to
obstruct Japan's southward move.# In regard to this, the authorities of
England and Chungking have expressed negative statenents, but the facts be-
lie thcir denial. Sinee the middle of April, this ycar, the Chungking
government has been constructiug important roads in this region and has been
sonding officers connccted with transportation and cormunication to.........
...............,too, has been sending some officers to this region to co-
operate with Chung:ing. Bosides, the adninistrative department of Chung-
king has crcated an organization bureau and an administrativo bureau to
solicit mon for bridge-building: and has sont men to.......
........to
cooporato in tho stiiulation of the Anglo-Chinose military alliance (This
sentenco is doubtful duc to the indistinctness of the rccord). Furthermore,
according to roports from Thailand, thc troops under Chungking have cntered
Burma in accordance with tho secret alliance between England and Chungking
and arc being classed on the surface as the Chinese detachmonts of the Bri-
tish troops. In regard to the above facts, it has been verificd by tho
statenent of the former comnander of the Malayan force in an interviow with
nowspapernon at Singapore. Thus, it can be seon that the military alliance
between England and Chungling is considerably deep and close. Furthermore,
thore is no room to doubt that this is being spurred on by America's aid
#Besides, nunerous runors to the effect that troops of Chungking are al-
ready in Burma and Malay have boen received, of late.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
and support. That is, it has become clear that imerica recently sent a
large number of plane and accessories to Chungking. In other words, the
total amount of export licenses issued by the American government from Jan-
uary to Apri1 for exports to China is 8,630,000. 0f these, $4,900,000 were
air planes and their accessories. Besides, of the 2,867 trucks shipped to
the interior of China during April, 565 have been used to transport air
plane accessories. Furthormore, Maj. Gen................., commanding officer
of the Manila air force, who went to Chungking on May 17 to inspect the
Chinese air forcc, conferred with Chiang Kai-shek as well as other leaders
of the Chungking government and inspected tho various air fields at Seito,
Keijun, Manyu and Denshu. His purpose, necdless to say, was to inspect the
state of the Chungking air force, and the results of the Japanese air raids
and to devise measures of aid for the Chungking air force, besides building
the ground work for the cooperation between America and Chungking's air
force. Moreover, it has been roported that ho negotiated for the acquisition of
Anerica air bascs in China in thc evont of a war betweon Japan and America.
Furthermore, the major general also discussed the possibility of training
men for the Chungking air force in imerica and the Philippines and thus re-
organize and rosurrect Chungking's air force. Besidos, many men of the
America air force have been sent to Chungking and other strategic places to
direct the practical training of the Chinese and it is an undeniable fact
that not a few of them are being used in the Chinese air force as volunteers.
Whon we study the above facts minutely, we can see how stubborn the hostile
acts of the third powers to obstruct the accomplishnent of our creat ideal
have become. Of coursu, the settlenent of the China incident is the most
urgent problem that should be carried out by our country, but in as much as
such a situation has unfolded before us in connection with thc incident,
there is no neod to mention that thore is an urgent necessity to cope with
it as a world policy from a higher level. Thus can be seen the necessity
of the execution of the joint dofonse of French Indo-China by our country.
Besides making a peaccful advance and a righteous step toward French Indo-
China, and thus solidfyin her footing to wipe away thc blind activities of
the hostilc third powers, our country has shown to her prople her dotermin-
ation to destroy tho anti-Japancso bloc by conducting the most fierce bomb-
ing of Chungking on July 30. Besides, with the ain to strengthen her nat-
ional production and cconomic power, important regulations in regard to in-
dustrial organizations were unanimously adopted at a meeting of the mob-
ilization cormittee on July 30. It is an indication that our country has
takon a stronger step toward the perfection of her national war footing, and
against the anti-Japanese ccononic opprossion of England, morica, Dutch
East Indies and other countrics, our country, havint been fully propared,
has assumed a prudential policy of watching the rove of the other parties
and acting accordingly.
Domestic News fron Kansai District:
News of the organization of a sea scout organization in
Osaka.
News of putting into use the natural cas that is being emitted

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
along the shore of Lake Biwa.
News from Wakayama Prefecture (Nothing important. Pertained
to the great production of plun and a plan to preserve the birth place of
Admiral Toyoda).
News fron Nara and Hyogo Prefectures (Nothing important).
Japanose MMusic
Talk on Peking by Taichiro Toyono (?), of Asahi Shimbun: (nothing
intoresting, just described the city of Peking, how it had been the center
of culture of China and how many Japanese were now living there (8,200).
Tomorrow's program.
Thome song.
Japanose National inthon.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/2/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocyoles.
Comic talk.
Japanose Music.
News:
News of Vice-Admiral Masaichi Niimi, supreme commander of the
Japanese naval forco that tool: part in the landing of the Japanese troops in
French Indo-China, cntering Saigon this morning.
News of the entering of Japanese flcet into Camaranh Bay on
July 31 amidst the great welcomc of Fronch fleet.
News of the Japanose troops landed at Saigon starting their
march toward their destination. Expected to roach their destination by night
today, August 2.
News of the two most influential newspapers of Saigon expres-
sing their whole-hoarted welcome toward the Japancse troops and denouncing
England. "Although England promised to risk herself and aid others, she has
foresaken Norway, Netherlands, Poland, Belcium, Franco,Yugoslavia, Greece and
Crete, one after the other. Fellow Frenchmen, residing in French Indo-China,
don't be deueived by the sweet words of England".
News of several hundred Chinese troops, which had been con-
centrated along the borders of Yunnan and Kwangsi Provinces in anticipation
of the landing of Japanese troops in French Indo-China, attacking Caobang and
other places imnediately aftor the completion of Japanese troops' landing,
in accordance with the Anglo-Chineso military agreement.
Nows of an influential newspaper of Thailand refuting the
propaganda of England in regard to Japan's aim, as follows: "Those who cir-
culato groundless propaganda should be ashamed of themselves. England, late-
ly, has been circulating a rumor that Japan is making preparations to attack
Thailand fron Carbodia, but such rumor is absolutely without foundation.
The roason is both Japan and Thailand are fricndly nations having a complete
undorstanding".
News of Conmorce Ministor Sakonji lcaving Tokyo to report his
appointment to tho imperial ancostors. On board the train, he stated as fol-
lows in rogard to foreign tradc probloms: "Against the cconomic opprcssion
against our country, which has beon suddenly strengthened since America's
invocation of her act to freezo Japanese assets, we are striving to establish
an independent trade within the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere and, at
the same time, are watching the actions of these countries closely and are
fully prepared to meet whatever occasion that nay arise".
News of a plan to commemorato the first anniversary of the

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2
tripartite alliance for three days, starting from Septenber 25, the day the
agreoment was signed, under the auspices of tho German-Japanose Society, the
Italian Tomo-No-Kai (Friends' Club), the Japan-Germany-Italy Friendship
Society and the Japancse-German-Italian Womens' Club.
News of the recognition of the Croatian Government by Manchoukuo.
News of the projoct of beautifying the outer gardens of the im-
perial palace, started the year before last by the city of Tokyo, being al-
most completed.
News of the Japanese troops' operations on the continent of
China: Army air force raided Hosetsu in Szechwan Provinco yesterday, August
1. Announcement of the Japanese troops headquarters in South China to i-
solato tho regions of peace and order from the regions of non-peace and non-
order in South China.
News of the American government's embargo on aviation gasoline
and oil. Effect upon Japan not to be very creat, because she has made all
preparations for it. Substitutes already discovered to take its place.
News of considerable difficulty being experienced between
Chungking and Moscow for the conclusion of closer relations.
News of Gornan air forcc's raid of Mosoow on July 3l for three
hours. Suez and England also raided.
News of tho condition in Moscow after repeated Gorman raids.
Damages not so creat, according to Domei correspondent. (Notc Domei roport
from Moscow.)
News of Russo-German war: Germans reportedly carrying on
mopping up operations in and around Snolensk. In the north, German troops
reportedly have completed their oncircloment movement against Leningrad. In
the south, the alliod troops of Germany and Rumania reportedly have cap-
tured Tripoli and are hoading toward Odessa. On the other hand, Russians
claim to have doalt a creat blow on the Gernan troops near Smolensk and to
have sunk a Gornan destroyer in the Baltic Sea, besides danaging two other
Gernan frcichters.
News of Amorican's policy of black-listing firms and in-
dividuals doing businoss with the axis powers being opposed by Argentine.
Reason--Control cannot be legally cnforced and Argontine has the most number
of firms and individuals black-listed by America.
Conment on Current Events:
To talk on the situation in Japan: On July 26, tho joint de-
fense agrcement betweon our country and France was declared and without any

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
loss of time our troops wero landed in Fronoh Indo-China. It is needless to
state that this creat feat will contribute groatly toward tho settlement of
the inoident and the creation of the East isia mutual prosperity sphere and,
in the long run, toward the creation of world poace. Furthermore, it had a
great significance as an indication of the furtherance of our national strength
and of our unshakable determination. In other words it completely disprovod
the false propaganda of the third powers that Japan had exhaustod herself com-
pletely because of tho protracted war with Chungling, and, at the same time,
actually indicated the determination of Japan that she will freely oxpand
her efforts for the creation of the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere. The
situation in East Asia, lately, has been very tumultuous. With rumors of
England, America and Dutch East Indios joining hands around Chungking, Jap-
an's task to create the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere was in imminent
peril. It was a thing against which Japan could not remain silent. Fortunate-
ly, through the complete concurrence of opinion with France, tho joint de-
fense agreement of French Indc-China was concluded and although this infal-
liable measure against the hostile acts of the third powers was taken, there
is still a need to seriously watch tho movenents of tho hostile nations. On
the other hand, even in regard to the situation in Europe, the insight of the
war has becomo all tho more difficult. However, it has becomo absolutely
clear that Germany, who has excellont arms and well-equipped troops and whose
national system is in perfect order, will obtain the ultimate victory. Eng-
land and Amorica, who are desperately trying to maintain the old order, are
about to furthor strengthen their aid toward Soviet Russia and Chungking, both
of whom have no principle nor contention. Becomeing worse day by day, the world
situation has at last taken on the aspccts of a storm. Japan's attitude is
to cope with this acute world situation and to bring about world peace. Under
this great mission, we, hundred million subjects of Japan, are marching in
step and perfccting our unshakable national structure. As today's comnent
on current events, we would like to talk on the various problems pertaining
to the porfection of the national structure bohind the landing of the Jap-
aneso troops in Fronch Indo-China and our country's strong attitude to cope
with this universal storm. Woll, Aucust Ist was East Asia National Service
Day (The first of cach month has been set aside as this day in Japan, D.
W.) Not long bcfore this, our country concluded the joint defense agreement
of Fronch Indo-China with France and inmediately followed it with the land-
ing of her land, sea and air forces in the southern part of French Indo-
China. The motive of the landing of our inperial troops in Southern French
Indo-China is cxactly as was stated in the nows and provious comnonts. In
connection with this just reinforcement of her troops, our country was con-
fronted with various prossurc from the hostilo group of nations and cvon ex-
porienced the vory hostile measure of having her assets frozen. However,
anticipating that such a measure would be dirccted against hor soonor or
later, our country mado evcry precautions and retaliated with the enforce-
ment of the regulations controlling foreign related transactions immodiate-
ly when the other powors mado their announcemont. Thus such actions of the
hostile nations surrounding Japan made the nation all the more indignant and
welcomo the month of August with a firmer detormination. Now, lot us con-
sider in what mannor the national structure has boon porfected from about the
end of July to the beginning of August. What can be mentioned first is the

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.98)
Page /4
16th meeting of the mobilization conmittee, which was held at the premier's
residence from July 30 to 31. At this meeting, the important industrial or-
ganizations reculations was adopted on July 30 and the coastal trado regu-
lations on July 31. The ain of tho important industrial rogulations is to
strengthen the national structure by dovising a means to develop the in-
dustrial cconomic power to tho highost degree and accomplish the aims of the
amplification of the industrial power. It is also expected to bring about a
new beginning in the perfection of our national war footing. Now, the
coastal trade regulations is intended to accomplish tho smooth execution of
the plans to strengthen the production and transportation power with the
strengthoning of tho sea transportation power as its goal. In this con-
noction, it must be regarded that tho anti-Japanose economic opprcssion of
England and America as well as the other hostile nations will inevitably
bring about a conversion in the trade circle of our country. Thus, the aim
of this coastal trade regulations is to enhance trade with in East Asia and
accomplish without any hitch our national policy through the enforcement of
the coastal trade regulations. Then, on August 1st, the population bureau
and life bureau were newly created. With lasting prospcrity of Japan as
its goal, tho purposc of the population bureau is to work for the increased
production of cxcellont Japancse. It is needless to mention here that the
perpetuation of man-power is one of the important clemonts for the prosper-
ity of a nation. Thus, the ain of the population bureau is to encourage
birth, and, at the same tine, foster excellent Japanesc in quality, too.
Among the important plans are included the ranting of monetary loans for
marriages, the supervision of caring of babies and the granting of education-
al funds for the children. Thus, the physical education bureau, which for-
merly had charge of the nation's physical cducation, has been merced into
this population bureau. In a word, the mission of the population bureau
is to increase exccllent Japanese in quality and quantity. Now, tho work
of thc life burenu is to onliven tho nation's present attitude of lifc all
the morc and create a new mood of life that will neet tho aims of tho nation-
al policy. In other words, it can be said that the work of the life bureau
is to dircct tho concreto reformation of the nethed of living indicated in
the plans of the population buroau. On the morning of August 1st when these
two bureaus vere newly created, Minister of Public Health Toyobumi (?)
stated as follows: "The notive power of the crcation of tho East Asia
mutual prosperity spherc and also the creation of a super national defonse
is man-power. The worl of the population burcau and the lifo burcau is to
nurture this motive-power cxcellently and direct it along the national
line". Thus, he mado clear the worl: of these two bureaus. Other things
worthy of note are the conference of those connected with the iron manu-
facturing industry, held on July 30, and the mecting of the Finance Minis-
try's committee to dispose of the foreign economic problems, held every day
since July 29. In view of the fact that the iron manufacturing problems of
East Asia have already been discussed from various angles and our country al-
ready has established a self-sufficient policy to cope with America's em-
bargo on scrap-iron, the purpose of this conference is to further study the
technical problems in regard to iron-manufacturing. The committee in charge
of the disposition of foreign economic problems was created with the purpose
of watching England and American's manner of application of the Japanese

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
assets freezing act and is composed of representatives from the ministries
of foreign affairs, war, navy, commerce, communication and overseas affairs and
the planning bureau. Although the fixed policy toward the economic measures
taken by America and England against our country has already been decided,
the purpose of this committee is to closely watch the application of the anti-
Japanese economic measures of the hostile croup of nations and to act accord-
ing to the actions of these group of nations. What we would like to report
to you next is the creation of an operation (?) committee within the Central
Cooperative Society (Chuo Kyoryoku Kai) to make closer the relations between
the government and the people. The work of this operation committee is to
dispose of the problems discussed at the first Central Cooperative confer-
ence (Chuo Kyoryoku Kai) held in May and suggest to tho government concrete
plans. Other matters worthy of note, too, are the matters pertaining to the
national support youths organization, decided on July 29, and the reor-
ganization of the Dai Nippon Seinen Dan, performed on July 3l. In other
words, the structure of the youths' organizations has been strengthened both
laterally and horizontally. In addition to this, a new student structure,
under tho guidance of the Education Ministry, has been started in the univer-
sities and technical schools throughout Japan. Thus, the students are learn-
ing lessons and exeroises that will train thom to become excellent Japanese
in body and soul (The teaching of the English language has been abolished in
tho schools throughout Japan, and evon the English signs on the streets have
been done away with. D.W.). Hencc, it can be said that the youths of Japan
have been completely aligned to carry out the national policy of Japan.
Some time ago, the covernment docided at a cabinet's meeting to rcnovate the
business routine of the government offices, as the beginning of the per-
fection of tho national structure. In responcc to this, the action of the
people, of lato, has been that of placing their confidence in the government,
of cooperating with the government and of reaffirming their detcrmination
to cope with the over-changin; world situation together with the government.
With thc emperor at tho head, the nation is unitedly cooperating in the per-
fection of the national structure and is marching toward the accomplishment
of the great mission of our country, and it can be said that this pace has
already been solidificd. This is the stato of Japan today.
Children of Hawaii, your hour has come. This is the child-
ren's news hour from Tokyo. Today, it is August 2 in Japan. August is the
middlc of the hot, hot Summer season in Japan. The Kokumin Gakko, to which
the children of Japan attend, started its summer vacation from yesterday,
August 1. We belicvo that you, too, are already enjoying summer vacation
and are spending your time swinming in the sea and doing other things every
day. Now, let us tell you how the children of Tokyo as well as other parts
of Japan are spending their summor vacation from yosterday. To begin with,
the children of Japan are roquired, even during summer, to attend school
every day during the carly morning hours, and under the supervision of their
teachers, they perform the excrcises broadcast by the radio station JOAk.
After concluding thosc radio cxercises, they are given instructions in judo,
fencing, running and swimming to build up their body. The teachers of the
Kokumin Gakko are doing this in accordance with the order issued by the

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6
Education Ministry, which has oharge of the children's education in Japan.
Yesterday, the first day of vacation, as well as today, the children of
Japan have done this and are probably having their dinner at this time with
their body all tired out. Their parents, as well as their toachers, are all
happy and are expecting them to be fortified with a strong body to begin
their school work at the close of this month. No one can tell how ag-
gravated the China Incident and the European war, which are being fought on
the two sidos of the world, may become. Isn't it reassuring that the child-
ren of Japan are building up their body to such an extent in this emergency?
Now, we'll give you some news. If you open a map of the Orient, you will
see a great peninsular jutting out into the Indian Ocean on the south-
castern cnd of the Asiatic continont. This peninsular is divided into two
countrics. The westorn half is Thailand, which was formerly known as Siam,
where many olophants are to be found. The castern half is French Indo-
China, a colonial settlement of France. Tho news we are going to give now
is about the landing of the Japanese troops in the southorn part of French
Indo-China. French Indo-China is bordered on the north by a Chinoso pro-
vince callcd Yunnan, and Chiang Kai-shek has been obtaining guns, tanks
and other weapons from across this border. However, to stop this, our
troops were landed in the northern part of French Indo-China last year.
Now, just as in tho previous instancc, our men of the army and navy have
been landed in the southern part of French Indo-China with thc understand-
ing of the French covernmont. With the recent development of the European
war, tho nations hostile toward French Indo-China began scheming against
her, thus imporiling hor position. Hence, to protcct her colonial settle-
mont, French Indo-China, tho French government decided to cooperate with
Japan, the leader of East Asia. This has resulted in tho landing of the
Japanose troops in French Indo-China. As you all know, Japan, the father-
land of your mothers and fathers, is fighting against Chiang Kai-shek of
China, at present, for the creation of a now order in greater East Asia.
That Fronch Indo-China, which forms a part of the Asiatic continent, has
decided to join hands with Japan, rcgard Japan as her leader and cooperate
in Japan's crcation of a new order in groater East Asia is a matter of con-
gratulations for Japan as well as French Indo-China. Well, this is all for
today, so good-bye, children of Hawaii.
Japancse Music.
Program for tho coming woek.
Talk on England and Amorica's act of freezing Japan's assets
by Zondo Naomi, of Chugai Shogyo (Domostic & Forcign Commercial News):
Just as we were thinking that America's action, of late, is queer, she in-
voked tho freezing of Japancse asscts. At the same time, England, who is
in cohort with America, undertook a similar action against Japan. We be-
lieve that it will have a serious effect upon the Japanese residents a-
broad, who are playing an active part in the countrics outside of the
axis croup, but wo sincercly hope that you will regard it as a test lying
in the path of progress of Japan and bear it with a determination to servo

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Page7
your country. Primarily speaking, this action of England and America was
taken in resentment against the joint defense agreement reached between
Japan and France for the protection of French Indo-China and certainly was
a surprise to Japan. To begin with, the purpose of this joint defense of
French Indo-China, as literally stated, is of a peaceful nature--that of
defense. Therefore, we cannot understand why they, regarding it as though
it were Japan's first armed move toward the south, have undertaken such an
unfriendly measure. In regard to this, the government circle of Germany
has stated as follows: "Sinco America has moved into Iceland, which anybody
can see is clcarly outside of the western hemisphere, on the pretext of de-
fending the western hemisphere, she is thinkini; that Japan's joint dofense
of French Indo-China may be extended toward the Dutch East Indies and
Australia". Howevor, that would be like deciding the intention of the
other party by her own intention and must be said to be the manifestation
of England and America's ambition. Following the freezing of Japanese as-
sets, England one-sidedly abrogated the treaty of commerce and navigation,
just as America did tho year before last. At any rate, although we do not
want to do it, the others are malking us do it and Japan has no other al-
ternative but to drive away the on-coming shower of fallin; sparks. Thus,
on July 28, Japan promulgated tho regulations controlling foroign related
transactions to retaliate against it and undertook similar cconomic measures
as were enacted by England and America against Japan. It is only proper
that Japan should carry out such measures. However, tho degree of Japan's
restriction against England and America's assets in Japan is dependent upon
their future action. Therofore, lot us now consider the offect of England
and Amorica's action upon Japan. In view of England and America's past at-
titude, Japan had been expecting this situation to come sooner or later and
over since the freezing of Germany, Italy and other Europoan nations: assets
in America, Japan knew that it would be applicd to her, too. Hence, she
has prepared herself for it and is not in the least bit confused. The only
thing is that we cannot help but feol sud when wo think of the inconvenience
of you Japanesc residents abroad, who are residing in British and Amorican
possessions. However, England and imerica fully knows that it is more
harmful than beneficial to take up arms against Japan immediately and bring
about the worst situation. This is indicated by the fact that the American
govornment authorities have stated that imorica has no intention to seize
Japanese ships, in spitc of the fact that she can do so by this law. Evon
from thc reports and observations of tho well-informed, it can be seen that
America undortook this action for the simple reason of checking Japan's so-
called southwurd move. Thus, it is only reasonablo to consider that she
will use some discretion in the execution of this law. However, we cannot
be too optimistic (?). In as much as England and America are jointly carry-
ing out their economic oppression against Japan and are politically and
militarily solidifying thoir envelopment movement against Japan by..........
with Dutch East Indics, Australia and Chungking, we cannot be optimistic, but
should be dotermined to cnduro every conceivable hardship and wipe away the
opprossion of tho hostilo nations for the creation of the greater East Asia
mutual prosperity sphere. It is noedless to montion hero that your father-
land, Japan, is fully propared in this senso.
Tomorrow's program.
Theme Song.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JLU4 Program.
Date 8/3/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocyclcs.
(Recorder's note: Conditions too poor to record more than
one rocord).
Nothing but buzzing sound. Talk of some kind heard faintly
at intorvals.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/4/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Japanese Lusic.
News:
News of thc exchange of courtesies between Lt. Gen. Iida and
the hcad of Cochin-China and other leaders of French Indo-China.
Nows of the great welcomc extended to the Japanese troops by
the people of French Indo-China as orderly and just.
Nows of tho strongthening of economic relations betweon Japan
and French Indo-China due to the landing of the Japanose troops.
News of the Japanese air force raiding Soian and......
in Shensi Province yesterday.
Nows of the Japanese naval air force in Central China raid-
ing Chojo, Chosa and the neighboring regions in Honan Province yesterday.
News of the first day of the conference of the newspapermen
of East Asia, hcld today under the auspiccs of the publicity bureau of the
Nanking govornment. Attended by Wang Ching-wei and representatives of tho
Japanese army and navy and government. Conforonce bcing held in Canton.
Talks given by Wang Ching-wei, and the suprene commander of the Japanese
troops in South China.
News of Japanesc Ambassador to Italy Horikiri, who has been in
Berlin to discuss mattors with Japanese Ambassador to Germany Oshima, return-
ing to Rome on August 3.
News of the appointment of a Spanish minister to Nanking.
News of Ministor of Public Hcalth Koizumi, Minister of State
Harada and Minister of Commorce Sakonji returning from Ise Shrine.
News of the decision of the Kokusai Bunka Shinko Kai (So-
cicty for the promotion of international culture) to chango her policy of
depending upon England and America and concentrato her efforts in East
Asia, espocially French Indo-China and Thailand.
News of tho Towa Bunka Shingi Kai (conferenco to discuss the
cultural problems of East Asia) to bo held at Peling University on September
1, 2 and 3. Japan to have 26 representatives.
Nows of the Russo-German war: At the northern front, Germans
reportedly capture 70,Ooo Russian troops and many guns, rifles and am-
munitions. On the other hand, tho Russian High Command issued a communique

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
yesterday that the Russian troops unloashed ficrce counter-attacks against
the Germans along the whole front and the Germans started a fiorce attack in
the regions around Kiev.
News of the German air force sinking 6 British ships, totalling
40,O00 tons, off the east coast of England and raiding Alexandria on August 3.
News of the British air force raiding Hamburg and other places
on the continent on the night of August 2.
News of the Italian air force raiding Malta on August 2 and
Italian submarines damaging a British warship in the Mediterranean Sea.
News of the Vichy government's donial of the ill-relations with
Gormany.
Hews of a rumor that England will start a new campaign in
Northern Europe against German as a means of aiding Russia.
News of Hopkins, director of the lease-lend bureau, arriving in
London on August 3 from Moscow.
Nevs of President Roosevelt going on his annual summer vacation,
in spite of the critical situation. His motive, perhaps, is to soe the ef-
fects of the embargo on aviation gasoline and oil.
Japanesc Music.
News of the week:
News of the landing of the Japanese troops in Southern French
Indo-China.
News of thc conclusion of a loan agreement between Yokohama
Specio Bank and the Banlks of Thailand.
News of tho recognition of Manchoukuo by Thailand.
News of the meeting of the mobilization committee.
News of Konoye's broadcast on August 1, East Asia National Ser-
vice Day. Talks made by Minister of Agriculture UNo (?).
News of the new policy of Kokumin Gakko, compelling students to
attend school during suamer vacation to build up their body.
Nows of the achievements of the Japanese troops from July 26 to
August 1. About Nanking government's movoment to establish regional peace and
order progressing smoothly and the Japanese naval air force's raid of Seito and
Chungking and other places in Anwhei Provinces.
Japanose Musics.
European Classics.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese National nthem.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/5/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles.
Naniwa-bushi.
News of Japanese naval air force raiding places in
Shensi and Hunan Provinces (Record very indistinct).
Lews about Japanese troops' land ing in French Indo-
China (ecord very indistinct.)
Iews of Japanese troops landed in French Indo-China rea-
ching its destination sorevhere in Caibodia (Indistinct)
Yews of Minister Wakatsugi and Abassador Norura con-
ferring with Under-Secretary of State Welles. Minister Waka-
tsugi expected to return to Janan (Record very indistinct.)
"ews of negotiation between Yokohane Specie Bank and
the Dutch East Indies Government of the conclusion of some
kind of agreement (hecord very indistinct.)
News of the Lutch Hast Indies Governient denying the
amouncement of the prohibition of oil exports (Record very
indistinct.)
Hews of the safe arrival of the Ja anese delegation
for the settlerent of the border between French Indo-China
and Thailand in Saigon on August, 4th.
News of possibility of Thailand to recognize the lan-
king Governient.
Francc expected tc take sinilar action and
transfer her representative in Shanghai to Fanking.
Iews of the report that America will send 35 planes
and 22 pilots to chungking in the near future. Japan believes
these plancs to be out-modelled types. (Record very indistinct.)
News of the ptiiful condition in Chungking as related
by an escapee to Hongkong. (Record very indistinct.)
Lews about Burna route (Mot a favorable news but record
too indistinct to translate.)
Ies of Russo-German war: The allied mechanized troops
of Ger.any and Ru ania reportedly disrupted an important rail-
way line in Ukrainia. Besides, in a region north of Smolensk,
the Gerrany troops reported encircled and annihilated a large
11
11111

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
Russian division. Furthermore, the German air force raided
oscow again and destroyed inportant military establishments.
On the other hand, the ussian High Conmand announced that
fierce fighting were sta ed along the battle front fron Smolensk
southward, while nothing inportant took place at the other
fronts.
News of the Ger an air force raiding Southern Engand and
the harbor facilities in Scotland on August 4.
News of the Italian air force's activities (Record in-
distinct.)
News of Iussolini sending a message of encouragement to
the Italian troopsat the front. (iessage was read, but record
was too indistinct to translate.)
Japanese iusic,
Corn.ents on Curent Events:
Topic "America's aid toward Soviet Russia";
(Record too poor to make possible translation of the
comment. Words caught now and then, but ipossible to nake
any connection).
(Reccrder's note: Stopped at O8o0 GT. Condition too
poor to continue recording.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/6/41
Frequency 17795 Milocycles
Iews:
Japanese raval air force again raided ....
in Hunan Province on August 3, while Japanese army air force
raided the western part of Saansi Province.
Chungking in a pitful cendition due to the Japanese air
forct' repeated raid, according to report fpom Canton. Anti-
Chiang attitude becoming stronger within the city as a result.
Strengthening of econolic collabpration between Japan
and French Indo-China being stressed sinee the landing of Japa-
nese troops in French Indo-China by the head of the Chamber of
Cormerce of Saigon.
Hope expressed that Japan vill supply
French Indo-China vith the necessary war aterials.
British troops reportedly being reinforced at Singapore
fron India. Move to occupy important bases in Thai expected
to be started by British soon, in view of the fact that troops
are being concentrated long the border of Thai and alaya, too.
Chinese troops concentrated along the border of Burma
reportedly are fully prepared to cross the border and act in
concert with the British troops against Trai, acccrding to an
AP dispatch fron Saigon.
The Government of Thai handed a note to the Japanese
Legation yesterday stating its recognition of the Lanchoukuoan
Government. Britain reportedly threatening to take approp-
riate measure against Thailand.
Plan to construct a ym for physical and spiritual
training in commeicration of the 26 centennial anniversary
ield last year approved by Governnent. Construction work to
be started imediately.
Acccrding to a dispatch fron Batavia, oil is still be-
ing loaded on Japanese ships.
German trocps reportedly heve advanced l00 kilometers
southeast of Smolensk, according to Ger. an High Cormand yes-
terday. German air fo ce also raided Moscow. Russia High
Comand, al so, reported that Rucsian troops dealt a severe blow
on the German trcops Smolensk and Belaya Tserkov.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
Page /2
German air force sank two British ships off the English
coast yesterday and, also, raided British military establish-
ments along the Sue: Canal.
Italian submarines daaged a British transport heading
toward Tobruk in the Mediterranean Sea.
According the the German High Cormand, 1,607 Briish
plenes have been shot down from January 1 to July 31 of this
year.
In regard to the rumor that Prerier Churchilt might come
to visit President Roosevelt, Secretary of State Hull in an
interview vith newspapemen yesterday nade no attempt to deny
it, but only steted that her has he ard nothing about it from
the President. He also stated that evacuation of the ericans
in Japan is being ccnsidered but has not be decided yet.
News about the bill to increase taxation passed by the
lower house of Congress.
Fews from Few Tork stating tiat America has decided to
cive all out aid to Russia for the purpose of defeating Ger-
Hany. War materials probably will be shipped ac ross the
Pacific.
According to a German report, Hopkins denied Stalin's
request for the irrediate shipment of about 2o0 large-sized
American made bombers. The report also stated Ger.any has
acquired valuable infornmation in regard to this ialk between
Hopkins and talin, but camot make it public in view of the
times.
Corment on Current Events:
Topic Amglo-nerican Economic Blockade and
Our Preparation": When our country resolutely undertook the
reinforcenent of her troops in Scuthern French Indo- China
to cope with the rnilitary alliance forned among England, Ameri-
ca, Chungking and Dutch East Indies in the South Pacific, Eng-
land and America and the other nations following them took on
the attitude to further strengthen their unnecessary econoric
oppression against cur country. That is, the unti-Japanese
econonic oppression scheme, vhich vas unfolded on July 25 with
Anerica!s announce:ent to free e Japanese asses, developed in-
--to the abrogation of the trade agreerents of England, India
and Burna and England's announcenent to freeze Japane se assets
in England. Thus, vith her colonial possessions, Canada,

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
Page/3
Australia and New Zealand, following suit and Dutch East Indies
and Philippines taking a similar measure, a new beginning was
brought about in our country's trade. Besides, in spite of
the fact that Anerica promised not to apply the freezing act
upon Japanese ships, she, in reality, applied it upon the Japa-
nese ship's freight and successively undertook one oppressive
reasure after annther. Then, on August 1, she paced an enbargo
on oil export to Japan, which cannot but be regarded as the
anti-Jepanese policy of President Roosevelt's regime. Further-
more, America's oppressive hands against the Axis powers have
now been stretched toward Central and South America and four
hundred more individuals end firis have been added to the list
of South aerican firns black-listed. The greater part of
these reportedly are Japanese firns. According to the explana-
tion of Under-Secretary cf State Welles, America reportedly is
negotiating for the nonopoly (?) of the resources of South
America. Hence, the anti-Japanese economic oppression of Eng-
land and Aierica and their allies has been openly manifested
to such an extent during the pest week. Against this, our
covernment established the foreign related transactions control
regulaticns without any loss of time and enforced it fron July
28 against England and lerica as well as their allies, thus
undertaking the retaliatory measure to freeze their assets.
Priarily speaking, the inportance of this type of regulation
is to ascertain in what  nner the other nations will apply
their measuee. Therefore, it is needless to mention that our
country is paying her strictest attention to indicate her ...
....... and reserve by watching the move of the other parties
in order to take action accordingly. In other words, she al-
ready is equipped vith the determination and preparation to re-
main unperturbed, no atter how roughly she nay be treated by
the other parties. In regard to such inportant material as
oil, an i falliable  easure centering around the Ministry of
Cormerce has already been establised. Jor example, from such
passive measures as regulation of oil and putting greater con-
tent of alcohol in gasoline, she is considering the enactment
of such positive measures as the creation of a conmittee to
control asoline and the increased production of aynthetic gas0-
line. In this respect, she is no utter stranger (?). Further-
more, with the anti-Japane se econoic oppression manifested
today by the oticr nations as an opportune beginning, as at-
mcsphere of establishing a fundalentally satisfactory economic
footing has surged upon within our country. This must be said
to be a prorising prospect for our country's economy. In the
past, our country's cconomy depended greatly upon the economy
of England and er..ca. ubsequentl, to cut off our depen-
dence on the econoy of England and Americe and crcate an in-
dependetn and self-sufficient East Asia econorny is ---.......

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
(Record indistinct.) On the other hand, the dependence of
French Indo-China. Thailand and other nations of the mutual
prosperity sphere upon the economy of England and merica was
far stronger than that of our country. Consequently, the im-
rcdiate creation of a closer mutual prosperity sphere economy
was impossible. Nevertheless, in spite of England and Anerica's
freezing of Japanese assets, the nations of East Asia has
takcin on the spirit te establish an East Asia mutual prosperi-
ty economy without showing any affection toward their trade
with England and merica. Analytically speaking, it has driven
away the greatest obstacle lying in the path of the creation of
the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere and has opened up a pro-
mising path. The new effect to be brought about by this freez-
ing act is comparatively small. Instead, it can be expressly
stated at this tire that it has enabled the nations of East
Asia to unite as one and advance toward the crea ion of a new
order in East Asia. Now, the best vey to cope vi th England
and America's econoic blockade of Japan is to do away with the
past economic dependence upon England and merica and strive
for the creation of a self-supporting economy in East Asia.
In order to do this the production technigue and mode of liv-
ing should be changed (?). (Record indistinct). Many things
not possible by En lands and America's technique can be made
possible through the developnent of East sia's peculiar tech-
nique. For example, even in regard to the mot ive power of
autorobiles, it vould be most difficult to solve this problem
were it to be studied from the hypothesis that it ust depend
on gasoline. However, if it were to be studied from the angle
that the unlimited coal deposits of the continent can be used
to operate autonobiles, there would be no problem at all. This
is only one of the many examples, for a sirilar thing can be
said in regard to many other things. Besides, in spite of the
persistent denand for the creation of a Japan-lanchoukuo-China
economic bloc, the reason why only a few raw materials were
imported was that the attitude to depend on the easily acquir-
able raw materials still renr.ined considerable strong. Besides
on the pretext of obtaining foreign currencies, foreign trade(?)
was stressed nore than the trade within the yen bloc nations.
Then, too, there still was time enoughto establish an insepar-
able relation with the economy of Hanchoukuo and China. (In-
distinct) Consequently, in order to cope with this econonic
blockade cf England and uierica against Japan, it is of urgent
necessity that the obstacles that had blocked the progress of
Japan be done away vith and a new yen bloc trade policy be es-
tablished and enforced. This has already been dcne and con-
crete results are being radually achieved. It is an undeniable
fact that the econoic relations between Japan and rench Indo
China will inevitably becone closer vith the landing fo the
Japanese trcops in the southern part of French Indo-China. Be-
sides, it should be congratulated as a ............. and a
promisin, futuro for the mutual prosperity economic bloc that
the 10,000,000 - baht loan agrce: ent has bcen concluded

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.98)
Page5
between the banking syndicate of Thailand and our Yokohama
Specie Ban: to insure the smooth continuation of trade between
Japan and Thailand. (Record indistinct). Besides laughing
at such cstentatious schere of the hostile nations, we ......
........ that theii econc:ic blockade is enabling the other
party to rake a greater progress. The nation, thus, is de-
pending upon her own strength and is marching along the already
established course.
Domestic news (From Hokuriki and Shinetsu Districts):
(Hothing of par icular interest. News were from Iagano, Toya-
ma, Ishikawa, Hiigata and Fukui Prefectures.)
Japanese usic.
Talk on "Freezing of Japanese assets abrcad and Japan's
econony" by Hasao Okawa, professor of economics:
It was on the 26 of last nonth that America
froze the assets of the Japanese rosiding in America. On the
seme day, England notificd Japan the abrocation of her trade
agree ent vith Japan and froze Japanese assets, too. Insti-
gated by the acts of En land and Aerica, the Dutch East Indies
abrogated her credit agreerent concluded last year with Japan
from July 28 and froze Japancse assets on the pretext of res-
tricting trade with Japan. Of these, cur trade with England
has not been faring so well due to her enforcenent of the war
tine regulations and the lack of vessels. Thus, the question
is the effect of the fre ze upon Japan (Record Indistinct.)
To date, we have been unable to import iron, copper and machin-
ery. Tow, the question is what is the efiect of the f reeze on
oil, cotton, phosphorus, rubber, silk, china-ware and others.
Fow, let us consider the state of Japan. Shc is being enveloped
by the ABCD nations--That is, America, Britain, Chungking and
Dutch East Indies. For the accomplishient of the China inoid-
ent, Japan hes blocked and surrounded the  te-ways of Chieng
Kai-shek, but now they are suirounding this blockade of Japan
from a greater distance. Hence, tho questicn is what can ve
do. We must think of a way to deal directly with this move.
Based on her foreign exchange regulations, Japan invoked the
foreign related transactions regulations on July 28 against
America, Britain end the Cutch East Indies, making it necessary
for these nations and her subjects to obtain licenso from the
Finance Ministry in order to do trade in Japan. Even in the
disposition of perscnal property, securities and business,
the subject of these nations are rcquired to obtain license
from the Finance linistry. In connection with this action of
Japan, Manchoukuo and the Chinose Central Government, also,
enforced sinilar measures. In other words, Japan, Hanchou-
kuo and China have joined hands to cope with the unfriendly
acts of Enland, erica and utch East Indies. Needless to
nention, Japen's action was not only taken as a ...........re-
taliation, but also to make tiom reconsider thcir action and

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
Page6
make them realize that they were wrong. In other words, Japan's
in tention is to maintain peaceful relations, if possible, and
further the economic relations. (Record indistinct). For ex-
ample, when erica conducted an investigation of Jap: nese banks
Japan imediately conducted an investigation of American banks.
However, Japan is considering measures to help those who are
being seriously affected by these retaliatory measures. As
for necessary materials, Japan has already stocked herself up
with then. As for oil, for example, she is planning increased
production of synthetic gasoline and lianchoukuo's coal (?). In
regard to iron, she is planning to increase the mining of iron
ore in Ch na and lanchoukuo and even utilize the low grade ores.
Thus, there is nothing to worry. Even in regard to bauxite from
which aluminun is rotten, she can temporarily satisfy her de-
mand fron Manchoukuo and North China. Rubber can be gotten
from French Indo-China and Thailand, vhile cotton, as raw mater-
ial, can be gotten from China. Besides, she is pianning to use
silk, which s' e has been exporting, or doestic use. Thus,
to co pe vith this emergency, she is strengthening the ecomomic
means and welfare (?) or the people. Sometime ago, a meeting
of the nobilization conmittee was held and promulgated the na-
tional nobilization regulations. In his opening address at the
said r eting, Premier Konoye stated, "The various industries
within the country should be strengthened end ...............
Setting this aside ior the time being, let us ccnsider the
reascn for Anerica's action. Her action was taken as a re-
taliation against Japan's conclusion or the joint defense agree-
ment with French Indo-China. In contrast to this, Japan's re-
taliation was taken in an economic sense. Now, what made it
necessary for Japan to take up the joint defense of French
Indo-China. French Indo-China as well as Frence, her mother
country, fully understand the significance of the China In-
cident and the creaticn of the East Asia mutuel prosperity
sphere. Hence, they are fully cooperating with Japan. How-
ever, the action of the various nations to instigate the De
Gaullists and the Chiang followers becae so great that it was
unbecrable for the Vic y Governrent. It became so serious as
to rake i& dangerous to ignore it any longer. If this were to
be left alone, an irreparable situation endangering Japan and
F. I. C. would be brought about. Hence, after a long dis-
cussion, it was decided to entrust thhe protection of French
Indo-China in the hends of Japan. However, America has nade
no attempt to consider this fact. The sane can be said of
England and Dutch Eat Indies. Furtherrore, it is altogether
different fro the &ction of England, who occupied Syria.
America may be thinl ing that if Japan abandons her action in
China and the creation of the East Asia mutual prosperity sphere,
she would loosen her reasure of freezing Japan's assets.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
Station Jlu 4 Program
Date 8/7/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles.
Japanese Lusic
News:
News of Japanese naval air force raiding cestain re-
gions in Hunan Province (Record very indistinct).
News of the Japanese army air force raiding certain re-
gions in Shensi and ...........Provinces (Record very indistinct).
Fews of Japanese trocps' operations in Shansi and ......
Provinces (Indistinct)/.
Iews of the achievenents of the Japenese troops (Record
full of static.).
News of Wang Ching-wei talk (Record inaudible.).
News of Russo-German war: Something about Snolensk and
nearby regions falling into the hands of Ger ian troops(Record
very indistinct).
News of Gernan air force raiding ioscow on August 5th.
Nevis of joint raid by Gernan end Italian air force on
Tobruk.
News of Russian troops putting up stubborn resistence at
Srolensk and 3elaya-Tresvok.
Hews of Italian air force raidinc Cyprus and alta.
News of the British Admiralty announcing the establishment
of connection with the Russian flect by the British fleet on the
North Sea.
Sonething abcut the Iran Government (Record very indistinct)
Something about the President of Portu al visiting Azores.
(Record very indistinct).
Hews cf England and America's threat toward Thailand for
the latter's recognition of the Manchoukuoan Govern ent (Record
too indistinct to translate in detail).

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
Page f2
Comments on Current Events:
(Record too indistinct to perit translating in de-
tail). The subject of the talk appears to be the development
of the Russo-Geran war and England and America's propaganda.
It is obvious that this a Ceran influenced propaganda by the
fact that Germany's notive in this war with Russia is defined
as a war against bolshevisn and not for the acquisition of raw
naterials and by the fact that it menticns nothing but the ach-
ieve.:ents of the Geran troops. Reading between the lines, the
cormentator appears to be expressing his contention that the
reports from Gernan sources are true and that fron Russian
sources are false. fhe corn.entator ridiculed the various re-
ports of England and erica as false propaganda and stated
that merica's aid toward Soviet Russia will only aggravate the
war into a second world war.
Japanese Music
Tomorrow's progran
Thene song.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/8/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
News:
Japanese naval air force raided Kwangsi and Hunan
Provinces yesterday.
Japanese army air force raided Moshi in Shensi Province
and two other places in Honan Province yesterday and then raid-
ed Hokei in Shensi Provice today.
In regard to the statementof Foreign inister Eden before
the British Parliaient, Director Ishii of the Fress Relations
Bureau, in an interview with reporters, stated as follows:
"Foreign inister Eden stated before the British Parliament
that England has no intention to invade Thailand, but if England
has no aggressive intention, as clained by Eden, we canot under-
stand winy she is concentrating such a large force along the bor-
der of Thaialan. Japan ca not help but consider that England,
Anerica, Chungking and Dutch East Indies are undertaking an en-
circleent ovement against Thailand and are attempting a sini-
ster plan against Japan"/
The concentration of Chungking troops in Northern Burna,
together with Britain's concentration of her troops and cstab-
lishment of air bases along the border, is being regarded seri-
ously. Besides, the nilitary collaboration aiong England, Aneri-
ca and Chungking throughout Hongkong, Singapore, Australia,
Dutch East Indies, Philippincs and Malay has been considerably
strengthened. As a result, the sinister sclieme to check Japan
is being openly manifested. In regard to this, an authority of
Thailand stated that a conplete understanding has been reached
between Thailand and  erice through the discussion botween
Thailand's xinister in Washin ton and Secretary of State Hull
on August 4. This insinuating renark is being rogarded seriously.
According to a dispatch fren Singapore, the Cormandant
of tho British Far Hastern force announced that British forces
fron India arrived in Singapore on nugust 6 to rcinforco the
British troops in Singapore. Bosides, acccrding to a dispatch
Prom London, the British troops in Burina have conpleted its pre-
parations to thwart any attempt of the Japanese to cut oif the
Burma route.
In an intervicw with a Domei reporter, the Governor-Gen-
eral of French Indo-China stated as follows in regard to the
internetional situation centerin& around French Indo-China:
"I Believe that the jeint defense agreerent of Freneh Indo-
China, concluded between Japan and France, will contribute much

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2:toward the establishment of peace in East Asia. At pre-
sent, Britain reportedly is increasing her concentration of
troops along the Buria border, but I do not think that Britain
will undertake an active military novement i mediately. Ever
since the conclusion of the joint defense agreement, England
and America have been circulating various malicious propaganda,
but it is hard for ie to understand why England and America,
who are not directly concerned, should meddle into a thing that
had been voluntarily concluded between France end Japan for the
purpose of self-defense. However, the authorities of French
Indo-China havc repeatedly repulsed their intervention. Besides,
it is a fact that Chunghing troons are being concentrated along
the berder of Thailand and Yunnana, and even in regard to this,
the Covernnent of Trench Indo-China has protested against Chung-
king. Nevertheless, to be prepared for any elergency, our troops
along the Chinese border are being reinforced with troops fron
the south.
The report that England and America sent a jointwarning
against Thailand in regard to her defense on August 6 and that
Foreign Minister Eden and Secretary of State Hull both Made
public staterents in regard to the Thailand probler: on the same
day was reported to Japan yesterday. In regard to this, the
Yomiuri Shimbun editorialized as follows: "It is worth: of nete
that the heads of the foreign affairs department of both England
and America cormented on the Thailand proble: on the s ame day.
A thing can be made to losk any vay according to hov it is stat-
ed. However, it is clear that this is an intinidation made agin-
st Thailand as a counter-.easure against our country's rein-
forcement of her troops in French Indo-Uhina, and it is an un-
deniable fact that this is a positive step toward the disruption
of the peace of Last Asia. Their intention is to seek for the
renumeration of the failure of their atteipt to entice Trench
Indo-China into the anti-Japanese clique fro: Thailand. Ever
since the outbreal: of this second Europe.n war, such unscroupu-
lous schenes have been frequently manifested. Although we be-
lieve that Prenier............., who is doing his utmost for
the progress of Thailand in th is period of international crisis,
will not mistake the course to tae to overcore tihis crisis,
this is what Japan is sincerely hoping, To England and Alerica,
it may appear as if the reinforcement of Japanese troops in
French Indo-China was undertaken vith French Indo-China as its
object, but they should have in rind that depending cn the cir-
cumstances, it may take on the aspeet of protecting the mutual
prosperity sphere". The Hiyako Shinbun, clso, editorialized on
this subject as follows: "If thc British and Chungking troops
should disrupt the peace of Thailand, it is needless to rention
that is cannot be silently ifnorcd by Japan. This sly schere
of England to entice Chungking under the pretext of aiding her
and to use its strength for the protecticn of Burma and alay

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 3
and, at the same tie, for the disruption of the peace of East
Asia should absolutely not be pernitted, and Chunging, too,
should reflect upon this  atter deeply".
A fede ation of tho southern school of Chinese painting
has been organized thrcugrh the analgamation of the societies of
southern school of Chinese painting throughout Japan, Manchoukuo
and China by the Tational Support Society. Organization meet-
ing held at Imoerial Hotel today attended by 250 artists.
Due to the rainy season, the actual settletent of the
berde r between Tha iland and French Indo-China will be under-
taken by the Japenese dele ation in September. However, all
preparations have been corpleted.
In regard to the conclusion ci the battle in the neighbor-
hood of Snm lensk, Which Was announced sometine ago, the German
High Conmand ade the following announce ent: Prior to the con-
clusion cf the battle along the Vitebsk-Kiev front, the German
troops attacked the strong Stalin line between Dnepr River and
the upper estuary of the Dvina River and within this Stalin line
were mechanized facilities at Oraha and cgiliv. With the cap-
ture of the Russian troops south of the Orsha-lcgilev line, the
Ger an troops started marching eaatward along the Orsha-Smolensk
road and captured Soviet positions near Srolensk. Then, with
the arriving of the Germanmechanized trcops, the great battle
of four weeks duration started. As a result, the German troops
shot down 1,098 Russian planes, and destroyed 126 trains, 6
armored trains, 1,00o an onobiles and 15 .....
The German troops reportedly have conpletely encircled a-
bout 40 divisions a many towns in the rerion between Dnepr River
and the Black Sea. Ger an troops reportedly have already cap-
tured the Ru sicn Jo  ander and the annihilaticn of the Russian
troops reportedly is i minent.
On the cther hand, the Russian High Cormand issued a com-
munique esterday stating that fierce fighting is being waged
in the regions near Srolensk and tmat the Russian air force shot
down 39 German planes and 1cst only 19 planes.
To reply to the ammouneement of tne Ger: an High Co mand
the Russian Hi h Co mand amounced the results of the war thus
far as follows: illed or wounded--1,500,000 Gerians, 600,000
Russinas. Tanks destroyed -- 6,000 Gernan, 5,000 Russian.
Planes destroyed 6,000 German, 4,000 Russian.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #4
The Italian High Coniand announced that the Italian air
force raided a British squadron in the Mediterranean Sea on
August 7 and destroyed two destroyers and the joint German-
Italian air force raided Tobruk and caused considerable danage.
Besides, Italian subrarineson August 7 destroyed two British
ships, totalling 7,Co0 tons, cn the Atlantic.
In regard to the sensational achievements announced recent-
ly by the Gerran Migh Cormand, Editor Gaida of Journal d'Italia
editorialized as follows: "/ith the great progress made in ba-
nishing Bolshevism fror: Europe, the Axis Powers vill save Europe
as well as the world from Bolshevisn and vill free the various
nations, which are taking parts in this fight against Great
Britain, from the various oppressions and obstacles."
Gerrany's peace proposal toward England has been reported
fron Ankara. However, this is being regarded in some circles as
unfounded.
In an interview vith reporters on August 7, Secretary of
Interior Ickes, who is in charge of gasoline rationing, said
as follows: "For the purpose of transporting aviation gasoline,
the A erican Gove.n ent has decided to lend Soviet Russia several
oil tankers. These tankers will be selected Tron mong those
now in use on the west coast. nd the first shipment of gaso-
line has already been shiped frem Los ngeles on Soviet ship
a weck ago."
Corent on current everts:
Topic: "Reinforcenent of Jepanese trcops in Southern
Trench Indo-China and the change of attitude of Chinese irrigra-
nts": Talked about the great change in attitude or the Chinese
inmmigrants brought about by the sound development of the Nan-
king Governnent and the reinforce ent of the Jepanese trcops in
Southern French Indo-China.
Explained the great decrease in
the donation toward Chuncling's war front fron these Chinese im-
nigrants.
Jupanese Tusic
Talk on night shop scenery ef Osaka by Ir. Irie:
This talk pertained to the night shops opened on the streets
of Osaka durine the sumer monts.
There song.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/9/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Comic Sons.
Fews:
Japanese military air force raided Kanryo in Kanshuku
Sho on the moring of August 8.
Achievement of the Japanese troops in Shantung Province
(?) 448 battles, enemy 83,100 strong, 3,119 killed, 559 captured
1281 rifles taken, 30,000 rounds of armunition taken and many
other weapons.
Lt. Gen. Tida, supreme coi:ander of the Japanese force in
French Indo-China, visited the Eraves of the unknown soldiers
at Saigon and anan.
In regard to Director Ishii's statenent pertaining to en-
circle ent Hoverent of England, America, and Dutch East Indies,
Secretary of State Hull stated as follovs in an interview with
reporters yesterday: "I know nothing about it, but a nation that
observes international lav need not be afraid of the collabora-
tion between England and erica. If a nation is enveloped by
nations that observe the international law, that is due to the
result of her actions". The thing ncteworthy in this talk is
that Japan is responsible for the actions of England and Ameri-
ca on the Pacific. In other words, Secretary of State Tull
adits the existence of the encirclerent movement and places
the responsibility upon Japan.. In regard to Germany's criti-
cisn of erica's South merica policy, he stated as follows:
"Germany's criticisr is obviously a propaganda and none in the
Western Henisphere vill be misled by this".
According to a reliable scurce, the British Governtent
has nade a denand of Thailand for nilitary bases in Thei. This
is being regerded .s a counter-measure against Jipan. In return
for the military bases, ngland reportedly has pronised the re-
stroation of her lost territories in Burna and alay.
According to a reliable  ourve, da eged British warships,
reportedly will be sent to tne west coast of rericu for repairs
due to the lack of facilities at Singapcre.
Japanese Govern e t has adopted a plan to strengthen her
relations with French Indo-China. Foreign ofrice to ccntrol
actions of all Japanese agencies, Whether econoric, cultural
or othervise.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 2
Secretary cf State Hull unexpectedly requested Ambassador
Nomura to call upon him at 1 p.m. on August 8 and held some
sort of discussicn for about i5 minutes. The State Departrent
announced that ship problens and other general matters were dis-
cussea.
Minister Wakatsugi arrived in Los Angeles on August 8 from
San Francisco by train. He will stay in Los Angeles for the
time being until he can find passage home.
According to a communique issued by the German High Com-
mand, the Gernan troons in Ukrainia captured 30,900 Russians
including the Cormander of the 6th Russian Division and many
other officers. At the northern front, the German air f orce
captured Todenburg (?) and has advanced to the Gulf of Finland.
According to the estination of the military experts of
Vichy, Gernany has lost approximately 1,500,000 men, while
Russia has lost 2,000,00o nen since the outbreak of the war.
In regard to veanons, the estination is that Goreany has lost
7,500 tanks, 5,000 airnlanes and 5,800 rifles, while Russia has
1ost 9,000 tanks, 7,300 airplanes and 7,250 rifles.
According to a Hoscow broadcest intercepted in London,
the Russian eii force raided Berlin for the first tine on the
night of August 7 and caused considerable danage. In regard
to this, no announcement has yet been nade by Germany.
In regard to the number cf ships England still has that
are useful, a Gerran naval expert stated as follows: "England
has been using 28,000,000 tons of shipping. 0f these, 13,800,
o00 tons have b en danaged or sunk by Germany, Besides, 10 per-
cent of the remaining nunber are useless, leaving only about
13,700,000 tons that are useful. Now, in regard to the ship
construction power of Engl nd and Americ a, it is estimated to
be 200,000 tons monthly, but esti ating that Gernany sinks a-
bout 7óo,coo tons of shios per mon h, that leaves a shortage
or 500,000 tons every onth. Juding from this calculation,
it wili not be long when ncland wili have less than 10,000,
ooo tons of ships.
Ever since England de and Iran to expel Gernans fron that
country, the situation in the Hear East has again become acute
and British troops fron Irak reportedly are being concentrated
along the border of Iran. A cording to a report from American
sources, the Gerran inister at the twon of Tehran (?) report-
edly has threatened Tran that Germans will break off their dip-
lomatic relations with Iran, if she insists upon the expulsion
of Gernans from Iran. However, Ger an authorities have denied
this repcrt.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 3
According to a reliable report from Istanbul, England re-
portedly is Laking preparations to dispatch several divisions
of her Indian troops to a certain region in Soviet Russia by way
of Afghanistan.
Various reports of British oppression against Iran are
being circulated and are arawing the interest of the Arabians.
The government of Iran believes that British intentions is to
occupy the oil fields near the border of Iran and Irak.
Accord.ne to a report from Vic y, the British authorities
in Syria have arrested Gen. Dentz and three other French officers
on the  ound of having failed to carry out their promise to
release the o ficars of the DeGaullist troops, who had been cap-
tured. Vichy is regarding this es a viclation of the arnistice.
Fewspapers or Berlin are criticizing Preside Roosevelt's
policy tovard South Arerica as his attempt to acquire military
bases in South America and to align the small South American
nations under Americe, vhether they like it or not.
In regard to Secretary of State Hull's criticisn of the
colonial defense policy taken by the Vichy Governient, the Vichy
authorities stated that America nisnderstands the real intnetion
of France and that France has a right to decide upon the policy
to be taken in viow of the fact that she rust bear the consequence.
Japanose music.
Co.ments on current events:
Topic: "Thailand and he coersion of England and
Anmerica": When we consider Ehglam 's military coersion again-
st Thailand, ve find that it s not of recent origin, but has
gradually prepared f rom uhe  rly part of this year. Ever since
the strengthening of the defo..se of Singapore and the conclusion
of the agrcenent to use Singapcre joint ly with merica, England
has b een reinforcing her troops in Halay with kustralian and
Indian forces and has been cnergetically strenthening her air
force. nd in Hay, she announced the ar ival of her Indian force
including many men ci the air corps, in singapore. Thus, ng-
land has been concentrating her Indian defonse troops in singa-
pore to tlis extent and prusently is concentrating a large force
along the the border of Thailand and Halay. This certainly is
a mysterious action. And this mystericus action is not only be-
ing executed fron the south, but also from the Burma regions.
Thus, we canno t help but consider what England's intention is.
The strongtih of this British native and colonial troops, con-
verging on Thailand from the west and the south, reportedly is
jore than 150,000 strong, and is stationed along the strategic

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
Page4
points alcng the Thai-ialay border and the Thai-Burna border.
Furthernore, Chang's troops are acting in concert with the Bri-
tish scheme. According to a reliable report, the military au-
thorities of Chungking have already appointed Cho Hatsu-kei as
the head of the Yunnan-Burna defense force and have already
completed preparations to station about 15,00o troops along the
Burma road. Thus, it is needless to state that their scheme is
to make the Chinese troops converge on Thailand from the north
under the pretext of defending the Burne road. Thus, Thailand
is being coerced fron the north, the south and the west by 3ri-
tish and Chinese trcops. Accompanying this military coersion,
Governor-General Thoras of alay and Cormander Patten of the
British Far Eastern force are trying to alienate Thailand from
Japan and nonopolize Thailand's resources. Consequently, it is
needless to nention that military, pôlitical and economic coer-
sions against Thailand are being carried out vith a close col-
labroation with the allies in every aspect. hat can be taken
as a political coersion is the protest lodged against Thailand
for her reco nition of Kanchoukuo. That is, England has lodged
a protest against Thailand through her Minister Crosby to the
effect t at it is contrary to the spirit of the League of Na-
tions and threatened that England would take appropriate mea-
sures should Thailand increase her friendly relations with a
certain nation to the extent of hanpering her friendship with
England. Although we do not know as to whether Engl nd had
lived up to the spirit of the League of Nations in undertaking
her action in Syria, the attitude of Englund, who is redely and
unreasonably attempting to obstruct Thailand from recognizing
the real situation in East Asia and cooperate in the mutual
prosperity of East sia, together vith the other 19 nations,
can only be said to be atrocious and hich-hended, to say noth-
ing of the stupidity of lodging a protest with the League of
Lations as er shield at this time. Furthermcre, she, taking
advantace of Theiland's predicanent, is linting that she might
even carry out the freeze and eibargo sack exports aginst Thai-
land. What is more, a Washington report states that England
and merica issued a strong warning against Thailand in regard
to the defense of her territory. Sirultaneously oh the same
day, Foreign inister Eden before the lower house of the British
Parliarent and Secretary a'State Hull in an interview with re-
porters cormented upon the Thailand problem and made public a
considerably strong opinion. This indicates that their joint
warning against Thailand is true. Foreign Linister Edcn ex-
plained that the preservaticn of Thailend's independence is a
serious ccnccrn of Ingland, while Secretary of State Hull em-
phasized the fact that werning issued against France also ap-
plies to Thailand. This is England and America's intimidation
of Thailand brought about by the aonclusion of the joint defense
agreenent of Yrench Indo-China between Janan and France end, at

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
Page5
the same time, it is a scheme to intensify the cisruption of the
mutual prosperity sphere. Originally speaking, what our count-
ry is demanding of Thailand is that she recognize the necessity
of the creation of the mutual prosperity sphere, take part in
the reconstruction of East Asia as a member and cooperate in the
pronotion of mutual prosperity and c xistence. If Thailand's in-
dependence is being tireatened by another nation, as clained
by oreign Minister den, it is none other than England, who
has becn concentrating a large force along the borders of Thai-
land. Needless to Mention, America's intervention into the af-
fairs of the Vichy Governnent and her subsequent intervention
into Thailand's affairs is nothing other than thrusting the
nose into unother's affairs and cannot be said to be the acts
of a sober pe son. In regard to this, the staterent of Gover-
nor-General De Coux nade to c Domei reperter on August 7 is
only reasonable. In it, Governor-Gene al DeCoux stated, "It
cannot be denied that a sericus danger is confrcnting the peace
of East Asia. Sinulteneously with the announcement of the cen-
clusion of the joint defense agreenent between Japan anc France,
England and Anerica circulated varicus malicious propaganda ag-
ainst Japun and France. I find it hard to understand why Eng-
land and erica should meddle into a thing that has been volun-
tarily concluded between rance and Japan for thcir own defense
and absolutely does not c ncern them.  Throuch Japan's coopera-
tion, Frcnoh Indo-China is fully prepared to defend her teiri-
tory to the last". This also can be applicd to Thailand's case.
In other words, England and Aterica's scheme is based on the evil
plot of naking Thailand join the anti-Japanese group in place
of French Indo-China. However, we firly bulieve that Prenier
.......... of Thail.nd, who is doing his utmost to overcome
this crisis, cbsolutely will not nake nistake the course to take
to over come this crisis which is confronting Thailand. Need-
less to mention, Thailand is our friendly nation of mny years
standing, und this friendship has been strongthened all the more
through our arbitration in the French Indo-China-Thailand border
dispute. Thus, hor recognition of Hanchoukuo and conelusion of
a trade agreeent vith our country should be regarded as the
nanifestation of her will to becd e a eaber of tho greater Mast
Asia mutual prosperity sphcre. Nc matter vith what a seductive
and seditious scheme Envland and Americe may try to excite the
reactionary elements within the country, it absolutcly cannot
be thought that the general nasses of Thailand will choose the
course lccding to destruction. We are creatly concerned today
because the objective situation centering cround Thailand is
similer to the situation that drove us to cnclude the joint de-
fenses agreenent of French Indo-China with France. At the same
tine, we earnestly requost England nd merica to clearly have
in nind the fact the joint deferse agrceuent, de nding upon
the circumstances, mey be used to manifest its intrinsic nature

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
Page/6
in the defense of the mutual prosperity sphere, although it was
concluded with French Indo-China as the direct object.
Japanese Iusic
Children of Hawali, good evening. Are you all playing
cheerfully? The children of Japan, today, are enjoying their
long awaited Su er vacation. Although it has been the custon
of the children of Tokyo to go to the beach or mountain with
their fathe's, nothers. sisters and brothers tc spend their
Surmer vacation every year, this sumer vacation of the children
is greatly difierent from that of usual because Japan, as we
stated before, is in the midst of the China Incident and there
is no telling vhen Japan will be seriously cffected by the uro-
pean conflict. C nsequently, the children, since the beginning
of Surter vacation, have been rising early in the norning and
have been gahtering n the schocl yard tc perfor: radio exer-
cises and receive training in judo and fencing. Only nine days
have passed since the ir Su .er vacation began, but since they
are spending their days systematically like this, they appear
to be very healthy. Now, let me tell you some or the activities
of the children of Tokyo. This pertains to a composition of a
rale student of a Kokunin Gakio, which has appeared in magazines
and is ent itled "That I'im doing there days." "Since the begin-
ning of Sui.er vacation, I have b en rising at 5:30 a.m. every
day. and after washing ny face vith cold vater, I hurry along
to school together with my sisters and brothers. The reason
Why I go to school that early is that the radio exercises broad-
cast by the inistry of Public Health start from 6 a.m. At my
school, all the teachers are enthusiastic and the principal, as
will as the teachers breathe in the cool early norning breeze
and dilieently porfcrm the exercises to the tune of the radio
iusic every day. ilthouch it is only for ten minutes, perspera-
ticn caies out even in tne cool morning brceze if done earnestly.
Consequently, iranediately after the ccnclusion of the oxercises,
we juip in the swi  ing pool to wash away our persperation.
Then, we return to our hoies, to have breakfast vith our parents.
Perhaps, dne to the fact of the morning exercises, our breakfast
tastes very delicious and I alone sat four bowls of rice. After
resting a while after brcakfast, I take up my studies, such as
arithutetic and reading until a little before noon. After noon,
I go to school again and spend my ti e swira ing in tho pool. I
learned how to swir last year, but can swi the crawl and breast
strokes. Since I am expected to be taught judo and fencing next
year, I am planning to build up ny body till then. At night,
after dinner, I tell what had happened that day in detail to my
nother and father and heer fron my father things pertaining to
the China Incident and the Wuropean ccnflict. hen I ar: told

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
Page/7
that there is a danger of the European ar aggravating into a
world war, it makes me feel that I, as a Japanese, should build
up my body and study very hard." This is the composition that
was written by a fourth year student of a Kolumin Gakko. Now,
let us consider the state of the war between Germany and Soviet
Russia. Since this vwar between Gormany and Sovie: Russia began
from June 22, today is about the seventh week. Looking back
over this seven wees, we find fron an impartial point of view
that Germany hes been far superior. However, for the past sever-
al weeks, the strength of both has been about even with neither
side advancing nor retreating. The German troops and the Russian
troops are employing nany  llion men, besides any thousand
planes, tanks and other weapons, and are fighting in the norht
near Leningrad, in the central part near Smolensk, which is but
400 kiloneters away fron oscow, and in the south near Kiev.
Coparing the total achieveients or the Gernan troops since the
beginn ing of the war with the announce ent made on July 11,
the German High Conniand made the following announcenent on Aug.
6. According to it, 400,000 ussians were captured up till
July 1l, while s95,ó00 Russians have been captured up till Aug.
6. In regard tc tanks, it was anncunced on Jily 11 that 7,615
Russian tanks had been captured, vhile the announcenent of Aug
6 stated that 14,145 Tussian tanks had been captured. In re-
gard to cuns, it was 4,423 on July 11, but on August 6 it had
increased to l0,388. In regard to planes, it was announced on
July 11 as 6,233, while the august 6 announcenent showed it had
increased to 9, O82. This is the achievenents of the Gernans.
And what creat achievelents they are. Not to be outdone, Russia
on the fodlowing day, Au ust 7, announced the losses suffered
by both since the cutbreak of the war, as follows: German tanks
6000, Soviet tanks 5000, Ger an planes 6000, Scviet planes 4000,
Gerran cuns S000, Soviet guns 7000, Germans killed 1,500,000.
This was the announcement ade by Soviet Russia. Judiing from
these announcements, it appears as if both sides are claining
that they are winnine, but in view of the fact that German troops
have crossed the border andae threatenine oscow, the capital
of hussia, it is safe to sonsider that Gernany is winning. Ac-
cordin" to a Berlin dispatch, itler reportedly has ordered the
German trcops along the wholo front to intensify their attack.
Consequcntly, a grcat chango can be expected shortly in the war
between Ger any and Russia. This is all for today, so good-bye.
ii iii

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/10/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles.
Japanese Lusic
Comic talk.
News:
Japanese military air force today raided Tung-
chow in Shensi Province.
Japanese military air force yesterday raided Sian and.
Kanyo in Shensi Province. Another squadron raided Kanjo in
Shensi Province.
Japanese military air force yesterday raided Daimeido
in Szechwan Province.
The squadron, which raided Manjo yesterday morning, raid
Jiken in Shensi Province yesterday afternoon.
Lopping up operations of the rennants of the Jhinese
troops on the three islands near Canton were started the day
before yesterday, August C, to enlarge the region of peace and
order of Canton.
In view of the fact that Tailand is being threatened
on all sides since her declaration to . aintain strict neutra-
lity, the Government of Thai agcin made public her policy of
neut ality, as follcws: "Thailand is still raintaining friend-
ly relations with all countries. Lately, there have been rumors
that a certain nation has demanded military bases of Thailand,
but no such demand has yet been receivec frorr any nation. Fur-
thernore, Thailand is not coneerned about the military strength
of any nation. She is not afraid even if she is aggressed, for
she is determined to fight to the last, if she ust, for the
preservation of her neutrality."
In regard to the trade agreerent between Thailand, and
Hanchoukuo, the directo: of public relations of Thailand in an
interview with reporters on August 8 stated as follows: "Thai-
land presently is negotiating for a trade agreement with Man-
choukuo through her legation in Japan. If this agreenent is
concluded, Thailand vill increase her exports of rice and silk
to Hanchoukuo."
Accordine to a Washington dispatch reccived by the Yomi-
uri Shiibun, officials in Washington are greatly concerned
about the Thailand problen and that concern see: s to be as
follows: "While clanoring about the peril of Thailand more

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2
than necessary, England is conaentrating a large force along
the borders of Thailand and is scheming to create a war with
Japan.. This war between Japan and England centering around
Thailand will eventually spread into the Pacific. Needless to
mention, America will have to take part in the war from the stand-
point of her joint defense agree:lent of Singapore ........
......... Thus, ngland is scheming to utilize Anerica for the
accomplislment of her aim, and America should watch against this
secret design of England iying behind her positive action again-
st Thailand".
(There was sonething about Secretary of State Hull's
interview with newwpaper reporters, but record was very indis-
tinct as noted by the recorder, whose note reads as fbllows:
Diathermy or other noise blocked him out at tires.)
According to & dispatch from Bangkok, from Bangkok, the
five men celegation of Thailand, selected to attend the joint
discussion for the settlement of the border betveen Franch Indo-
China end Thailand, left Lor Saigon on August 9th.
The joint
discussion is scheduled to be held on August 20th.
The com:ander of the Japane e troops, vhich reached its
destination saae here in Caibodia, visited the grave of the un-
kncm French Soldier together with his staff.
Two young Gex ans, whe had been rougaly handled by Chiang,
yesterday reached Fukuoka by plane after their escape fron Chung-
king. (Record very indistinct.)
Accord. ng to a special coruunique issued by the German
High Connnd yesterday, the Ger an treops encircled and a. ihi-
lated several divisions of Russian troops at a point loo kilo-
noters southeast of Srolensh. On the other hand, a Russian an-
nounce .ent s tated that the u sian air force raided Berlin again
in thenight of August 8 and caused considerable damages.
(There was so:ethina about the Russo-German war, but re-
cord was too faint.)
According to & coriunique i sued by the Italian High Com-
mand on ugust 9, the Italian air force, cooperating with the
land force, raided the harbor facilities and fortitications of
Toburk and also raided the militry establish ents and railway
line near Jijipara (phonetic).

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
Page /3
According to a dispatch from Vichy, the Vichy Govern ent
through her a bassador in Spain lodged a request for the release
of Gen Dentz and 34 other French officers, who have been arrest-
ed in Syria by the British force, with the British Government
through her aibassador in Spain.
According to a dispatch from Vashington, ierican made
planes reportedly cre beine sent to soviet Russia in great nui-
bers. In regard to this, an authoritative source yesterday
stated that several hundred planes are presently being shipped
to Soviet Russia and that the nece: sary steps for the shipping
of bombers have also been co pleted. iese planes probably are
being shipped across the Pacific to Vladivistck.
America seens to be suffering more thct Ja pan fron the
freese crder (Record indistinct.)
Co: ent on current events:
Talked on the lan ne Goverm ent's regional peace and
order schene (plan is tc atablish regions of peace and order
step by step) and the weakening of the hungking Goverinent.
 entioned Aerica's aid to Jhun k nr es merica's intention to
mate China ite colcnial settle ent.
(Recorder's note: ofi from 0802 to 0803. English dance
music from 0805 to 0827).
Tatinal Anthem

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.93)
VER
Federal Burean of Iumestigation
Anited States Department of Justire
Washington, D.U.
75
HOELVED
September 18, 1941
SEP 20 1941
PERSONAL AND
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr
Department of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D. C.
SEP2:1941
Department of State
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
interest I am transmitting herewith translated
transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan,
for the period of August 16 to August 21, 1941,
inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
53
1. L0. 20oover
894.76
P
Enclosure
SEP 1.9 1941
DECLASSIFIED
Iutic Depaitment Guidelenes, 1-27-1984
NARS, Date 5.16'4984
By RIG

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4
Date 8/21/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Naniwabushi
News: (Recorder's note: Too noisy. Signal too weak for
recording.)
Something about the demarcation discussion between
Manchoukuo and Mongolia.
Something about the Australian Government making
public her anti-Japanese attitude.
Something about the matters discussed between Presi-
dent Roosevelt and Premier Churchill, besides the eight points which
were made public.
M
Something about America's aid to Soviet Russia being
already executed. Mentioned ships' movements toward Vladivostok and
planes being flown to Soviet Russia.
894.76/5
Something about a press interview held by Secretary
of State Hull, in which the Secretary of State mentioned something
about the proposed Moscow conference.
Something about the effect of Britain's embargo of
exports toward Japan on her overseas possessions.
5
News of the Russo-German war (record too indistinct).
News of the British demand made to Iran, requesting
the expulsion of all German subjects from that country.
P
S
News cbout Germany's and Italy's notification of the
F
closing up of the consulates of a certain nation as of September 1.
R
Comment on current events:
Topic "The Russo- German war and the international
situation": Mentioned the creat difference in the figures released
by Germany and Russia in regard to their respective losses, with a
hint that Germany's figures are correct. Stated the great blow that
Russia will suffer with the loss of Ukrainia, with a hint that Eng-
land and America's aid to Russia will be of no use. (Record too in-
distinct to permit translator even to summarize the comment.)
Japanese music.
Tomorrow's program.
Theme song.
###

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/20/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
(Recorder's note: Selective fading coupled with atmos-
pheric disturbances makes good recording impossible.)
News:
Something about Minister of Finance Ogura creating
an economic committce (record not very distinct).
Something about a meeting to be held between repre-
sentatives of Manchoukuo and Mongolia at Harbin on Soptember 22 for
the settlement of the border between the two countries.
According to a DNB despatch, Odessa finally fell into
the hands of the Germans on August 18 and the allied troops of
Germany, Hungary, Rumania and Italy aro making stoady progress in
every part of Southern Ukrainia. Besides, according to a special
communique issued by the German High Command on August 17, the
German troops, on capturing Nicholaev, captured a 35,Ooo-ton battle-
ship, a 10,0o0-ton cruiser, a destroyer and two submarines, which
werc under construction.
Nows of Italian and German air force's activities in
North Africa (rocord indistinct).
According to a despatch from Berlin, a German news-
paper published an editorial, entitled "The Joint Anglo-American
Declaration and Its Effect upon Japan", and severcly criticized
America's action as follows: "The joint Anglo-American declaration
is an irrational declaration advocating the disarmament of all na-
tions other than England, America and Soviet Russia and means the
domination of thc world by these nations, which are menacing world
civilization. The intention of America, who is planning to send
war aid to Soviet Russia by way of Vladivostok, is to spread the
war into the area where peace is being maintained by Japan alone
and Japan is fully aware of this. (Record indistinct)".
Something about Editor Gayda criticizing America:s
policy as an attempt to conquer Russia. (Record indistinct).
Something about the demages done by the Japanese
naval air force in its raid of Kumming.
According to a despatch reccived by the Yomiuri Shim-
bun from Shanghai, part of the American Marines at Shanghai reported-
ly will evacuate from Shanghai to Manila, probably aboard an American
transport on August 25 (record indistinct).

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
Something about the Nanking government's Minister of
Navy leaving Nanking to attend some kind of coromony (record in-
distinct).
England's coercion against Thailand reportedly has
become greater, for, according to a report reaching Saigon from a
reliable scurce, England has 71,O00 troops concentrated at Singapore,
195,O00 in Malaya and 33,000 in Burma. Furthermore, the British
Government reportedly is prohibiting the travelling of British sub-
jects through Thailand. On the other hand, Thailand reportedly is
solidifying herself against England's coercion. (Record indistinct).
Description of the situation in Thailand as reported
by passengers arriving in Kobe on board a Japanese ship. (Record
very indistinct, but the news broadcaster seemed to have said that
Thailand is prepared to abandon her torritories on the Malay Penin-
sula, if the worst comes to the worst.)
Nows about the dissatisfaction within Congressional
circles against the President Roosevclt-Premier Churchill joint
declaration. (Rccord indistinct).
News about a press interview granted by President
Roosevelt. (Record indistinct, but the ncws broadcaster seemed to
have stated that Presidont Roosevelt cxpressed his belief that
America's involvement in the war is inevitable.)
Japanese music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "England and America's aid toward Soviet Russia":
Immediately after the announcoment of the joint declaration by
President Roosevclt and Premier Churchill on August 14, the British
Government, as though she were waiting for it, invoked a total em-
bargo against Japan and announced her loan of 10,O00 pounds to Sovict
Russia. Furthermore, according to a reliable report, plans for the
holding of a thrce-nation conference at Moscow sometime in September
have been made and Chiang Kai-shek, too, probably will take part in
this conference to discuss the strengthening of the encirclement
against Japan. Judging from the above-mentioned reports, we can
clearly perceive that the aim of England and America hidden behind
their joint declaration is their ambition to dominate the world. In
other words, the conference of the two leaders of England and America
on the Atlantic was nothing other than a discussion in regard to
their joint action in Europe, Asia, South America as well as Africa
after the conclusion of the war. And one of the important matters
discussed was their aid to Soviet Russia, which I am now attempting
to explain. There is no room for doubt that the concrete plans in
regard to their aid to Soviet Russia will be discussed with Stalin
at the proposed Moscow conferencc. This is a thing of great

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
age #3
importance. The reason is that the real aim of England snd America
is not to help Soviet Russia but to exhaust Germany's strength at
the expense of Soviet Russia. At the same time, their aim is nothing
other than to instigate (?) Soviet Russia's Far Eastern Air Force
and utilize it in the encirclement of Japan. Generally speaking,
President Roosevelt's primary aim is to aid England. Hence, America's
aid to Sovict Russia is only of & secondary nature. Taking advan-
tage of this golden opportunity brought about by the outbreak of
war between Germany and Soviet Russia, America is trying to strengthen
England's fighting power. Although Soviet Russia is putting up a
great resistance against Germany and is preventing Germany from re-
alizing a quick decisive victory, it is an obvious fact that Soviet
Russia, sooner or later, will be defeated in view of her great
losses, both in materials and men. Thus America, whose primary aim
is to aid England, is now being confronted wi th the predicament of
considering aid to Soviet Russia seriously. Be it Premier Churchill,
who is anti-Russian, or President Roosevelt, who is anti-Japanese,
if their real feelings wero to be revealed, it can be said that they
are realing hoping for Sovict Russia and Germany to cut each other's
throat. Since it is believed that the aim of Premier Churchill and
President Roosevclt is to utilize Soviet Russia and bring about the
downfall of Hitler, it is believed that England and America's aid to
Soviet Russia will pivot around this principle. (Record indistinct).
Hence, England and America have come to realize the necessity for
the conclusion of a tripartite military alliance and it is the con-
census of opinion that what Soviet Russia most urgently needs are
airplanes, for it is being reported that Soviet Russia is now using
a large number of planes from her Far Eastern Air Force, which sho
had hoped to keep out of the war, to augment the heavy losses suf-
fered since the beginning of the war. This is the reason why America
is increasing her aid, in spite of the fact that her production and
transportation facilities are not sufficient. Already, numerous
American ships carrying aviation gasoline as well as other war mater-
ials reportedly have left America for Vladivostok. Furthermore,
large numbers of heavy bombers have already been flown along the
Great Circle route to Soviet Russia and American military experts
have stated that even fast fighting planes can be flown to Soviet
Russia by way of Burbanks, Dutch Harbor, Aleutian Islands and Kam-
chatka. Thus, when the statoment of Secrotary of War Stimson that
the defense of the Aleutians and Alaska has become of great impor-
tance is considered togethcr with the above reports, its significance
becomes very clear. (Record indistinct). Whatever it may be in
form, it matters little, since American ships have already left for
Vladivostok and planes are being sent to Soviet Russia by way of
Kamchatka and other Sovict territories. (Record indistinct). In
other words, America is approaching the realization of her problem
of threatening our country from the north. When it is thus considered
we find that England and America's aid to Soviet Russia will have a
great effect upon Japan. Furthermore, there is an opinion that
England and America will make somo sort of request to Soviet Russia

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
in regard to the encirclement of Japan at the Moscow conference in
return for their aid. Instead of being merely an opinion, it is a
thing which is possible. In choosing Vladivostok, which is close
to Japan, as the port for the unloading of the materials of aid to
Soviet Russia, America has outrageously ignored Japan's position.
This must be regarded as her attempt to aggravate intentionally the
already acute situation between Japan and America more than neces-
sary. This joint action of England and America who are threatening
Japan from the north must be regarded seriously by Japan, in view
of their ABCD bloc on the south. In connection with this, we would
like to mention that a strong opinion to the effect that our country
should watch seriously the insolence of England, America and Soviet
Russia in holding the threc-nation confcrence and should bo prepared
with an appropriate counter-measure is bcing voiced in some circles.
No matter what action England and America may take, Japan's funda-
mental policy in East Asia will not be shaken, So long as England
and America do not amend their scheme against Japan, Japan and
England and America will move along a parallel line and if England
and America should continue to hamper Japan's progress, Japan in-
evitably will have to overcome this obstacle with her strength.
Domestic nows (Kanto District):
Nothin f particular interest.
Talk on the international situation by Wakao Oiwa of Domei
News Agency: Thc talk primarily centercd on the progress of the
Nanking government and explained this progress as attributable to
America's freezing of Chinese assets. In other words, America's
freezing of Chinese assets executed on the request of the Chungking
government has compelled the Nanking government to devise measures
contributing toward her self-sufficiency. The speaker also commented
upon the joint declaration of Prosident Roosevelt and Premior
Churchill and explained its aim as aid to Soviet Russia and to
Chungking. In regard to the aid to the Chungking government, the
speaker stated that it would be of no use due to the rigid blockade
of the China coast. Furthermore, the speaker stated that America
now is in no position to consider civing positive aid to Chungking
in view of the fact that aid to Russia has become of greater noces-
sity, in order to accomplish her aim of prolonging the European
war and exhausting Germany's strength. In closing, the speaker
stated that Japan is preparcd to protcct the independence of the
races of East Asia and fight for the peace and prosperity of these
races and urged them to unite as one to protect themselves. (Rccord
not very cloar so the talk has been digosted.)
Tomorrow's program.
Japanese national anthem.
# # #

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/19/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
A story told by a professional story-teller.
News:
Representatives of England, America and Russia re-
portedly will meet in Moscow sometime in the early part of September.
Chiang Kai-shek reportedly will also take part in the discussion.
Howuvor, America's hostile action toward Japan has increascd of
late. American ships reportedly are already heading toward Vladi-
vostok with war materials, while American-made planes are being
flown to Russia by way of Alaska, necessitating the strengthening
of America's Aluskan bases. Hence, Japan is now being threatened
from the north as well as the south. Some quarters in Japan are
urging the government to take sterner action against America.
Newspapers of Japan today editorialized on England::
and America's proposal to hold a conference with Russia at Moscow.
Some of tho newspapers have even stated that Japan will take armed
action against England and America if they insist on hampering
Japan's move. Others, like the Yomiuri Shimbun and Hochi Shimbun,
stated that Japan cannot remain unconcerned about the Moscow con-
ference and that the shipment of aviation gasoline and other materi-
als to Vladivostok is a direct disregard of Japan's position in the
Eastern Pacific and cannot be ignored.
According to a despatch from Rome, Editor Gayda of
Giornale d'Italia wrote an editorial entitled "Japan's Role" on
August 17 and warned Amcrica as follows: "Before rushing headlong
into adventure, Presidont Roosevelt should first consider Japan's
strength. As it can bo clcarly seen by the fact that England, with
whom America is maintaining a closo collaboration, is greatly con-
cerned about the armed existcnce of Japan, Japan is a great power
not to be ignored by America. In spite of the fact that she has
been fighting against Chiang Kai-shek for the past four years, Japan
is showing no sign of having weakened. Instead, it can be said that
her strength has increased. Her naval air force, especially, has
not even lost its strength, but is controlling a wide region, rich
in natural resources and strategic points. If it had not been for
Japan's existence, England would have lessened the strength of her
Far Eastern navy and also would have used Australian and Indian
troops on a large scale in Europe. In this respect, America should
seriously consider the great strength possessed by Japan." Thus
did Editor Gayda point out the important position of Japan in the
Pacific.
The Cabinet today adopted the suggestion made by
Shozo Murata, Minister of Communications and Railways, for the govern-
ment control of shipping.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
National Support Society decided today to intensify
the National Service Movement at a meeting of representatives from
over twenty government and civilian organizations.
Japanese naval air force, divided into three groups,
today raided the various important military bases in Szechwan Pro-
vince.
Condition of Chungking becoming worse with America
meddling into her internal affairs. Dissatisfaction against America,
thus, is gradually becoming great.
According to a report reaching Canton from a reliable
source in Hongkong, Shin Sai-do, an important official of Chungking,
is making no attempt to return to Chungking ever since his arrival
in Hongkong. Described the pitiful condition of Chungking as fol-
lows: "Shortage of food-stuffs in Chungking is very great, and the
soldiers as well as the people are unable to obtain rice. Due to
the shortage of food-stuffs and the rise of prices, real meal is
eaten even among officials only twice a week. Besides, due to the
repeated raids of the Japanesc air force, the majority of thc people
are spending thoir days in the bombproof shelters. Unable to stand
the inconveniences any longer, I have escaped from Chungking on the
pretext of visiting my sick friend and I have no intention of re-
turning to Chungking again."
According to a despatch from Shanghai, American and
British investments in Shanghai are being sold. Investments probably
to be turned toward India and South America.
According to a despatch from Hongkong, the city is
about to oxperience a great shortage of food-stuffs due to Japan's
freezing act. Due to this condition, anti-British sentiment re-
portedly is increasing.
According to a despatch from Shanghai, the Americans
in Shanghai are suffering more than the Japanese from America's
freezing act. There reportedly are 394 American shops and firms
whose customers primarily are Japanese and Chinese subjects of the
Nanking government. Consequently, they are doing their utmost to
cooperate with the Japanese.
Lt. Gen. Sumida, who returned to Hanoi on August 16
from Saigon, called on Governor-General De Coux on August 19 to ex-
press his appreciatlon for the cooperation extended by the authori-
ties of French Indo-China in connection with the landing of Japanese
troops in Southern French Indo-China. Several important meetings
between Lt. Gen. Sunida and Governor-General De Coux are scheduled
to be held to discuss the dctails of the joint defense of French
Indo-China.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command, the German troops which captured Nikolaev and Krivoi Rog
are pursuing the remnants of the Russian troops along the lower
estuary of the Dnieper River and German troops are making steady
progress along all fronts. Furthermore, the German air force on
August 17 raided Moscow and destroyed the important factories and
railroad lines within the city. The number of planes shot down
by the Germans on August 17 totalled 90, while the Germans lost only
5. Besides, German planes reportedly are bombing the harbor facili-
ties at Odessa to prevent the besieged Russian troops from escaping
by way of the Black Sea. On the other hand, the Russian High Com-
mand on August 18 only announccd that Russian troops are putting up
stubborn resistance along all fronts and it is worthy of note how
short the announcement of the Russian High Command has become.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The ever-progressing Nanking government and
the declining Chungking government": Mentioned the collaboration
between England and America making its appcarance as a coercion
against Thailand.
Commont on current events:
Topic "The ever-progressing Nanking government and
the declining Chungking government": Opened the talk wi th a short
comment on England's and America's coercion against Thailand and
their plan to use Soviet Russia to check Japan from the north and
then compared the Nanking government with the Chungking government
throughout the rest of the talk, adding that England's and America's
aid has thus far been of no help to Chungking.
Japanese music.
Talk on the Kokumin Gakko by (name of person indis-
tinct--woman speaker): The talk portained to the activities cen-
tering around the Kokumin Gakko (Elementary schools--literally
citizens' schools). In it was doscribed thc National Service Move-
ment that is presently being propagated among the children of
Japan--that is, how they are helping families of soldiers serving
at the front or killed in action, how they are being organized into
groups, each led by a leader who directs their outside activities,
how this change had brought about a change in the body and soul of
the childron as well as of their parents. (Parents now regard their
children as the Emperor's childron, who are being entrusted in their
care for proper upbringing). In other words, this is an out and out
propaganda measure, trying to cmphasize to the Japanese residents
abroad that their children, too, are the Japanese Emperor's children
and should be brought up accordingly. As in all Japanese propaganda,
the lino that Japan is a country of the Gods and consequently is a

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.96)
Page # 4
nation that will prosper forever is stressed.
Tomorrow's program.
Theme song.
Japanese national anthem.
# # #

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 8/18/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Record #1 fell and broke).
News:
The raising of the standard of the Thai Legation to
that of an Embassy was announced today in the official gazette.
According to a despatch from San Francisco, Consul-
General Muto, who was called to Washington by Ambassador Nomura,
returned to San Francisco on August 15 with a message of encourage-
ment from Ambassador Nomura to the Japanese residents along the
Pacific Coast. The message read as follows: "At a time when the
relations between Japan and America are very accute, I am happy to
see the Japanese residents so calmly coping with the situation.
I, too, will do my best to reestablish the Japanese-American re-
lations and will work toward the accomplishment of my aim to the
last. I sincerely hope that you, Japanese residents, will keep cool
to the very end and strive diligently to cope with the situation.
According to a despatch from New York, England has
started an intensive propaganda in regard to the President Roosevelt-
Premier Churchill conference. She reportedly broadcast the eight
points of the joint declaration in forty languages and is preparing
leaflets to spread over the territories occupied by Germany. However,
the British people are very dissatisfied with this conference, ac-
cording to a news broadcaster of Columbia Broadcasting Station sta-
tioned in London. On the other hand, America, too, reportedly has
started to propagandize this conference, but some senators are burn-
ing with indignation at the discrimination shown against American
newspapers (while two British newspapermen and cameramen were allowed
to be present, none were allowed from the American newspapers) and
many aro regarding this as an attompt to keep from the people the
fact that America has been duped by England and criticizing the con-
ference as a repetition of Wilson's blunder. Furthermore, the as-
surance of aid to Soviet Russia and the assumption of joint action
with Stalin has caused the indignation of the American churches. and
the American Church Federation has started an opposition movement
claiming that to aid Moscow, which does not recognize religion and
private property and is scheming for the bolshevization of the world,
will only make the Communists in America puff up and endanger the
Americans. In view of this difference of opinion, a disturbance will
inevitable break out sooner or later.
According to a despatch from New York, it is regarded
that America's airplane production power will not increasc. Even
since President Roosevelt announced that 500 air fortresses will be
constructed every month until the end of next year, two months have

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
age #2
passed but no progress has been made. Consequently, it is being re-
garded that the production of the required number of plancs by the
end of next year will be impossible. Due to the shortage of acces-
sories and due to strikes, only 20 planes actually are being pro-
duccd in one month.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command on August 17, the allied troops of Germany and Hungary have
finally captured Nicholaev, which is the second largest ship-building
center of Soviet Russia. Furthermore, according to a DNB despatch,
the German air force raided Russian communication, railroad and
road facilities on August 16 and 17 and caused considerable confusion
among the Russian troops along the Dnieper River at the central front
and Odessa's fall is now a matter of time.
According to a despatch from a reliable source, pre-
parations are being made to establish an independent government in
Ukrainia.
According to a despatch from Germany, since 70% of
the strength of Russia has alroady been destroyed, Germany expects
to finish her schedule of the war by the end of September at the
present rate of progress.
News of the week: (From August 11 to 17).
National mobilization committee held meeting on
August 1l and approved four cconomic measures. Similar meeting
held on the following day to discuss the stabilization of prices.
Appointment of Amau as Vicc-Minister of Foreign Af-
fairs on August 13.
The raising of the standard of the Japanese Legation
in Thailand to that of an Embassy and the appointment of Tsubokami
as the first Japanese Ambassador to Thailand on August 14.
Activities of the Japanese naval and military air
force during this week listed.
Action of the Nanking government and her adoption of
war preparation measures retold.
Decision to hold the discussion for the settlement of
the border between Thailand and French Indo-china on August 18.
The celebration of the fourth anniversary of the
Shanghai Battle on August 15.
The death of Dr. Mataro Nagayo on August 16.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
Japanese music.
Talk by Eiji Makino, a veteran of the current war,
on calling at the homes of the soldiers who had died at the front.
(Talked about the death of Lt. Togo and how hard it was to report
his death to his wife).
Japanese music.
Japanese national anthem.
# # #

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
ation JLU4 Program
Date 8/17/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Japanese Music
News:
Our military air force yesterday raided Rohoko in the
northern part of Hupeh Province. Another squadron raided enemy
vessels transporting war materials along the upper estuary of
the Yangtze River.
Our nilitary air force yesterday also raided Honei in Szech-
wan Province. During the raid, one motor of the plane piloted
by Lt. Torasaki Suzuli was disabled, but he returned safely to
his base with the other motor.
Achieveents of the Japanese troops in Hopeh Province dur-
ing the month of July announced--engaged in 133 battles against
33,891 enemy troops, killed 929, captured 116 and tock 242
rifles and many other weapons.
Prior to hic going ashore and leaving for Washington,
President Reosevelt in an interview with reporters on board
ship made an portant statement in regard to his discussion
vith Prenier Churchill. In it, President Roesevelt stated,
"It cannot be told as to v at action will be taken as a result
of the joint declaraticn, but it can be said thet the next
step is the exchanging of views in regard to the eight points
of this declaration and since no region on any of the continent
was left out in the discussion, it is obvious that the situation
in Europe und East Asia were discussed". In regard to the aid
to Russia, he stated, "Since Soviet Russis is capable of paying
she probably will not receive any aid under the lend-lease law".
In recard to the Russo-Cerman war, stated: 'Russia's fight
against Germany will probably be continued."
According to a dispatch feaching Madrid from a reliable
source, the joint Rocsevelt-Churchill declaration aining for
the English-ierican new order is Herely a part of the last
stipulation of a six point agreerrent paving the way for a solid
collaboration between England and America and the text the
agreement reportedly is as follovs: 1. The rethcd and nature
of the aid to Britain. 2. Based on her lend-lease act, merica
will supply Britain with 7,000,000,000 worth of war materials
3. to take joint ccononic and military action against Japan.
4. The role Portugal is to play in England and Anerica's action
against the xis nations in Lurope. 5. The action to be taken
against France. 6. The eigat point declaration aimed for the
creation of a now world order." This agreement made up of these

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
age/2
six stipulations was concluded by President Roosevelt without
the consent of Congress. Furthermore, in regard to the fourth
article pertaining to the role of Portugal, a representative
of Po: tugal, too, reportedly was present at the joint discussion.
In an interview with reporters on August 16, Secretary of
State Hull was questioned by the reporters in regard to the
proposal the Moscow conference and the opening of a new air
route to Brazil. At the interview, the reporters inquired
about the opinion in Congress that the Roosevelt-Churchill might
drag America into the war and about the report fron Lendon stat-
ing that Anerica has now acknowledged her rcle in the Pacific
and in the .ovement to clamp dowm on the axis powers through
this discussion between President Roosevelt and Premier Church-
ill. In regard to these questions, Secretary cf State replied
that both cannot be answered and refused to corr.ent on them.
In recard to the joint ressage sent by Fresident Roosevelt
and Premier Churchill to Stalin, it is believed that not only
will the question of aic to Soviet Russia to be discussed at
the Hoscow conference, but also military and ciplomatic opera-
tions will he discussed. The proposal to holc the conference
at Hoscow, in itself, underrates Ger:any's strength, for it
does not take into consideratien the possibility of Hoscow
falling into the hands of Gem any. In other vords, the ain of
England and America is to make Rissia prolong her war with Ger-
many and to take positiv e action against Ge  any sometine nex
spring when Ger. any vill have exhausted herself. Xence, they
are using ussia to obstruct Germany in her canpaign against
Englend.
The government of Soviet Russia yesterday rade public the
joint English- American proposal to hold a conference in Lioscow
which was made through American Ambassador Steinehardt and Bri-
tish abassador Phillips, through the Tass News Agency. It
was revealed that Stalin replied that all preparations will be
made to hold the conference as early as possible and that Foreign
Minister Holotov will represent Russia in this conference.
Thai's ambassador to Japan not officially decided. To be
public shortly.
The joint discussicn of the representatives of French Indo-
China, Thailand and Japan for the settlerent of the boundary
between French Indo-China and Thailand to be held tomorrow,
August 18.
Professor liatsuguma of Tohoku Imperial University and his
party of five men and Professor Tamakawa of Tokyo Imperial Uni-
versity and his party of five men arrived in Kampo on August 16.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
Pa:e /3
After staying there for about several days, both parties will
head for the places selected for the b servation of the eclipse
of the sun, which will take place on August 21.
The Nationalists Par y's convention for the selection of
presidential, vice-presidential and senatorial candidates was
held at Manila on August 16. The incuibents vere selected as
candidates.
According to a dispatch from Sinapore, a powerful division
of Australian trcops arrived in Singapore on August 15. This
division reportedly is equiped with all the modern war weapons.
According to a dispatch received in Jerlin fron & source
in oscow on August 16, the inevitable fall of Odessa and Niko-
laev has been admitted. Besides, according to a dispatch from
London, Gernan troops reportedly are planning to land at Odessa
and Nikolaev by sea and cut ofi the comaunication with the
Russian troops on the east bank of the Dnpr River and prepara-
tions to unleash a fierce attack on Leninrad and Moscow, too,
are reportedly being ade.
According to a cormunique issued by the German High Com-
mand, about 10,Oo0 Russian planes have already been shot dowm
or destroyed, while 93,O00 tons of British ships have been sunk
during the past week.
In regard to the Russian air force's raid of Berlin, the
German High Cormand rade the folloving announce.ent: "On August
16, several Russian bombers raided Gerian positions in Northeast-
ern and Eastern Gerrany. Of these, one reached Berlin, but was
repulsed by Gernan anti-aircraft guns."
In a cormunique issued by the Russian High Comnand on
August 16, it was stated that fierce fight ing was beigg staged
between the Russian and German troops, but what is worthy of
note is that nares of the regions in which this fighting was
being staged was omitted.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the capture of the
Greatest iron producing region of Ukraina, Krivoi Rog, has
greatly increased the iron resources of Gernany and, on the
other hand, has resulted in Russia's loss of the most iaportant
raw naterial for her heavy industries. Sixty per cent of the
iron of Sovie: Russia has been produced in this region.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, Geriran airplanes on
August 16 sank two British ships, totalling 7,000 tons, off the
east coast of England and another large British ship off the

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
age i4
east coast of England and another large British ship off the
coast of Calais (?), besides sinking a 2,O0o ton 3ritish ship
on the night of August 15. Furthermore, the German planes also
raided the military establishients in the neighborhood of Can-
bridge and the harbor facilities along the east coast.
According to a corr unique issued by the Italian High Com-
rand, the Italian air force on the night of August 15 raided
Malta and also the British position at Tebruk, in cooperation
with the Ger an air force and the Italian land force.
Comei Correspondent Awaya visited Croatia. Called on the
premier, the foreign minister and other high ranking governient
officials. Whet ipressed him the nost, he stated, is the re-
spect and adniration of Japan had by these high ranking officials.
The officials expressed their cesire for the establishement of
a legation in Croatia by Japan as soon as possible.
According to a dispatch from Hew York, the economic .....
..... bureau or Alerica has really begun functioning and is
repor tedly working on two plans. One of these pertains to the
economic sanction against Japan, and it is belitved that various
pans to strengthen the anti-Japanese econoic oppre sion have
been drawn up. The other pertains to the ecomonic aid toward
the DeGaullists, and this aid is believed to be the purciiasing
of oil and other materials and the lile fror the Central African
region controlled by the DeGaullists and payin for then in war
laterials.
According to a dispatch Pron Hew York, America repcrtecly
is about to experience a severe inflation, due to the shortage
of raw materials, the rising of prices, the shertage of trans-
portation facilities, and the increase of freight charges and
labor ccsts. Accordin to an announce ent nade by Director
Henderson or the Price Control Bureau, of the 32 important muni-
ray materials, Americe, today, is experiencins reat difriculty
in obtaining 14 items. On the cther land, 5, 000 to 6,000 private
factories having no contection with mun:ticns nanufacturing are
facing the danger of being shut-down due to the shortage of raw
raterials.
Japane se lusic.
Conment on Current Events:
Topic "The Siniste: design and trick of the joint
Roosevelt-Churchill declaration":  It is seid that Satan can
appear before hunan bein's as God by his clever rask and dis-
guise. However, in this event, it is needle.s to rention that

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
age #5
it is a camouflage to the nth degree. The reason is that the
essential qualities and ideas of God and Satan are as differant
as God is to Satan. The joint declaration of England and meri-
ca, which was agreed on a British warship out on the Atlantic,
appears to be very fine at a glance and like a peace plan of the
war spread before our eyes, and vhen the eight points listed
within the declaration are read, it akes us feel as if we were
being drawn into an Utopia, where birds are singing and flowers
are blcoming. And the effect of the charm, possessed by this
soft nothings, rust be more so upon those who had thought that
a more blocdy and horrible vorld would be presented before them.
Herein lies the aim of the joint declaration ade by England and
America toward the nations of small military strength that are
depending on then. Furthernore, when this declaration is con-
sidered only superficially, the world peace plan proposed by
England and America seers to possess points conforning with the
mutual prosperity sphere ideclogy of ours, but vwe would like to
say definitely at this time that this is not so. That is, we
would like to state definitely at this tite that there is a
great difference betveen the idea of creating a mutual prosperi-
ty sphere in which every natien and every race of the world is
enabled to retain its ord. ined mission and state, live in con-
tentnent and peace and enjoy  utual prosperity and existence and
the selfish scheme to rine the world und er the rule of Engknd
and Anerica and forcibly establish racial harmony. They are
altogether estranged and incompatable with each other. In other
words, the joint declaratien of England and A.erica cleverly
camouflages their sinister design of bringing the vorld under
their rule under the cloak of world peace. It is none other
than a trick to hoodwink the world into thinking that their claim
which ains for the realization of their seliish ain, is the com-
non spirit of the world, and what they are aiming for and desir-
ing is the naintenance of the old order and status quo. of the
cight points made public, the only point that is not a fabrica-
tion is the one ertainins to the destruction of Nazisn. The
other seven points are nothing other than the falsification of
their aim to cause intcrnal disruption among the Axis powers,
their attempt to lure the South ierican and other neutrel na-
tions into believing their plan to be reasonable and the camou-
flaging of their inperialisn, which knows not where to stop.
Furthernore, they stated that the comon eney of England and
Anerica is the Nazi Government and the cther Govermnents having
close relations with it and fearing that they would be denounced
as the ruffians of the world if they were to manifest teir design
too openly, they have lied that the present world crisis lad been
brought about by the Fazi Government end the govern ents closely
connected with it. nd at the beginning of the declaration,
they claimed that Lngland and Anerica have no territorial or

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
age i/6
any other ambition, but how can England, who has more colonial
settlenents and p. ssessions than she can anage, and America,
whose domain is so great that its population density is only 17
per square kilometer, brazen-facedly claror for further expan-
sion! Hevertheless, who is it that has been wantonly aggressing
territories without any hesitation under the pretext of military
necessity and defense? That has been the case with Greenland
and Iceland, and Syria and Irak, too. Besides these territories
expansion, let us consicer the other things. How, can it be
said that these other things, such as the eneroachment of their
Dollar diplomacy, their economic coercion snd their military
threat, are not being expanded at a rapid rate in Europe, South
America, East Asia and Africa! (Record indistinct). Hence,
the argunents of England and America appear to be sonewhat dif-
ferent from ours. Furthernore, they, also, have decorated the
end of the their declaration vith the advccation of the suspen-
sion of arned aggre sion and for disartament. However, this
will not pass with the nat ions of the world, other than those
which are acting in concert vith them and are seeking for their
aid. There is no ihing to do but to state that the trick is old
and leave it at that. It is not unreasonable th t it is old,
because it, of course, is notling other than the rovival and re-
forging of the Versaiiles agreement. Furtherrore, it is too much
for us, si. ce bo th of them, posing like the fcrmer President
Wilson, are set upon creat ns a new league of nations. In addi-
tion to that, according to the Daily Tews, their plan reportedly
is for President Roesevelt to become the President of the World
with Premier Churchill serving under him as Premier. Now, in
the fourth and sixth stipulations, their aims are stipulated as
to scek enjoyment by ell faiths, reat and snall, victor and van-
quished, of trade and raw materials of the world needed for
econoric prosperity end to see the establish.ent of peace arong
all nations. dwelling in safety after the final destruction of
Nazism, respectively, Tlis, too, is certainly fine. Only, our
regret is that outside of ng land and erica, the nations that
are fully aware of how Wilson's 14 points had been realized will
not readily believe it. Tnis can be readily seen by considering
as to vhether the people residin: in their coloni l settlement
are enjoying a life free fron fear and shortage (?) and as to
whether they are not suffering severe exploitation. The second
and third stipulations are nerely the manifestation of England
and America's vorld view aiming for England and America's donina-
tion of the world based on their denocratic ideas. It is an
outrageous call toward Europe aimins for the alienation of the
nations under the Axis order fron Germany and Italy. Against
East Asia, it is a nute encouragenent toward Chungking and the
Dutch East Indies and, at the same tie, aga nst Japan, in par-
ticular, its aim is to disrupt her st ong war preparation foot-
ing by splitting up her national sentiment and, ii chance favors,

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
Page/7
to disturb her war policy. Although nothing definite was said
in regard to East Asia and Japan, it can be clearly seen that
the declaration is pregnant with the above eaning. In other
words, t is nothing but their usual sly trick. However, with
Russia having her hands full with Ger any, it is only reasonable
that England and America do not want to garavate the var nore
than what it is today in East isia, and the  act that they have
avoided to exci e Japan directly cannot be overlooked. Jever-
theless, it is obvious that one of the important probles of
this conference was the method by which England and America's
joint action against Japan is to be deployed by the fact that
ren carrying sebres tock part in this cmference. This is prov-
en by the fact that the London Times in commenting upon the
conference stated that England and America's collaboration is
necessary in East Asia more than in any other part of the world.
Furtheriore, what makes this ore cbvious is the fact that the
British Governent invoked a to tal embargo against Japan immedi-
ately after the announcenent of the declaration and jud xing from
the report that Aerica will follow suit shortly, there is no
roon to doubt that this is true. In this respect, it is all right
for the disappointed and down-hearted Chun king Goverm t to
brignten up. Perhaps, En land and America's coercion vill be
strengthened not only econcrically, but also rilitarily. Of
course, we expect this and are prepared in every respect. Through
this understanding be-tween England and Anerica, each has suc-
ceeded in tying each other up, for Aierica now has tade it in-
possible for England to conclude peace with Ger any independent-
ly and ingland has made Aeiica pronise to take part in the war.
We should regard it es only proper for the Chinese Central Govern-
ment to laugh at the at.enpt for world doination soearnestly
and eagerly made by ngland and Americe and to state that Aieri-
ca has roved a step further into the war. Hence, the world has
now been efinitely cividec into two  cups--one eagerly about
to take a bite at thc poisoned cake brougit about as though by
magic and the other fi ntins to protect hu.anity from the poison
hidden deep vi thin the swee tness of the cake.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/16/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
News:
Newspapers of Japan played up the joint Roosevelt-
Chruchill declaration and also critici: ed it in their editorials
as a challenge against the powers, which are striving to estab-
lish world peace, and as an international scheme. These editor-
ials appeared in the Yomiuri Shimbun, the Asahi Shimbun and the
Asahi Shinbun and the Shu ai Shogyo.
According to a dispatch fron Berlin, Germany is regarding
the joint declaration asnothing worthy of consideration. It is
being regarded as Aerica's attempt to make her public sentiment
nore pro-British. Furtherrore, the newspapers of Berlin are
stating that Germany is dutermined to wipe away such plan of Eng-
land and America with arms. At the same time, Italian newspapers
also, a re regarding the joint declaration as a repetition of
Wilson's 14 point proposal and as an indicaticn that the demo-
cracies have made no procress during the past 24 years.
Decision of the governments of Japan and Thailand to raise
the standard of their legations to that of an eibassy and the
appointment of Teiji Tsubokani as the first Japanese abassador
to Thailand.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, the clevation of
standard of the Thailand legation to that of an enbassy is being
welcomed heartily in Thailand, and the government circle of Thai-
land reportedly released the following unofficial staterent: e
cannot help but regard the elevation of the standard of Thailand's
legation to thet of an embassy by Japan as her recognition of
our country's strength. And at a tine when England and America's
coercion against Thailand is beconing more and more strong, it is
certainly tinely, and this vill certainly increase the confidence
of Thailand in Japan. Particularly, the dispatching of Ir. Tsu-
bokami, who is regarded as en elder statesnan within Japan's dip-
lomatic circle, as the first Japanese anbassador to Thailand is
a maniiestation of Japan's sincere autitude toward Thailand. We
hearily welcome the coming of the new anbassador".
Being thus outwitted by Japan's initiative, England and
Anerica reportedly are greatly confused and are seriously dis-
cussing the natte.
Dr. Hataro Magayo died today.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
Japanese rilitary air force today raided Tsuruya (?), an
important center along the Chohoku route in Szechwan Province.
Description of pitiful condition in Chungking. Prices of
goods rising day by dey due to shortage.
According to a dispatch from Hongkong, a meeting of British,
Chungking and DeGaullist representatives reportedly was held for
five days starting from August 10 somewhere in Burna and a con-
crete plan for the disruption of peace of Thailand reportedly was
ade.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, the people of French
Indo-China are placing creat faith in the Japarese troops, and
the Japanese military headquarters is receivinf, several scores
of letters of welcome everyday.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, Lt. Gen. Su ida and his
staff will return to Hanoi and hold an important conference with
the Governor-General of French Indo-China on ugust 16.
Accordine to a cormunique issued by the German High Cormand
on August 15, Ocessa has been cut off by Rumanian troops and Mi-
kolaev by the allied troops of Gerrany and Hungary. Furthermore,
Gernan troops reportedly have captured Irivoi Roy (?). On the
other hand, Soviet Russia has admitted the retreat of the troops
to the east ban of the Dnepr iver. Vith the success of the
Gernan trcops in Southern Ukainia, the Cermans reportedly have
started another great attack along the Leningrad front on August
15th. In view of this new attack, Russian troops reportedly are
preparing to retreat alon the whole front, and are even prepar-
ing to abandon Leningrad and hiev.
According to a dispatch from Washington, President Roosevelt
and Prenier Churchill reportedly sent a joint message to Stalin
on August 15, suggesting the holding of a conf rence in Moscow,
for the duscussicn of England and Aerica's aid toward Russia.
This message repor tedly was sent throught the American and the
British anbassadors in Hoscow and stated that England and Ameri-
ca will give maximu: sid to Russia, that any ships carrying
war materials have already left for Russia and that a conference
should be held in Hoscow to disouss the matter of aiding ussia
more thoroughly.
Connient on Current Events:
Topic: "The wholly perfected and wtrengthened war
preparation of Japan": Taking into censideration every conceiv-
able cirou stances, Janan is strengthening her national system
to be able to respond iviediately. She is perfecting her nation-
al unity and control in her ccononic, political, military and

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
Page3
other aspects. This is being termed in Japan as the perfection
of her war preparations, and this is being regarded as the urgent
duty of the nation. By strong national defense nation, we mean
to make our country a strong nation without any fear, and the
state of entering a war with this strong national defense is the
war preparation footing, vhich is being stressed today. Hever-
theless, it should be re enbered that Japan, at present, is carry-
ing on the China incident and that, in itself, has placed her on
a war footing. Hence, vith the China incident now taking on a
world wide scale and a world wide nature, it has becone necessary
for Japan to change her structure in order to be able to cope with
the new world war situation. However, Japan's var preparation
is not primarily for the purpose of fighting. It is a prepara-
tion to be prepared for war. With this preparation, Japan will
not be underrated and will be able to maintain peace. Therefore,
Japan's war preparation is a war preparation for the sake of
peace and based on the principle of naticnal defense. ow, let
us ccnsider what has ade it necessary for Japan to make this war
preparation. Generally speaking, it is at ributable to the ag-
gravation and enlargeent of tne vorld disturbance and directly
speaking, it is attributable to the progressive turn of the of-
fensive noveents of the nations encircling Japan. This being
the case, let us consider in what vay the encirclenent against
Japan is bein conducted. The anti-Japanese coercion is being
conducted from boti the economic and nilitary aspects. One of
them has been greatly intensified, of late, and that is America's
economic oppression and the economic oppression--namely, the en-
bargo of exports to Japan--of Ingland and her possessions. In
regard to the milit:ry enc ircle ent movenent, the military col-
laboration of terica, England, Chun king and Dutch East Indics
and the military alliance of England and Chuneking can be civen.
Through this, the hostile group of naticns is attempting to under-
take an econonic blockade as well as a military encircenent of
Japan and blosk and delay thc construction of the East Asia rutual
prosperity sphere. Now, let us consider the pretext of America
and the nations follovin her under this circunstances.  ithout
taking nto consideration their offensive scheme, they are claim-
ing that peace or war in the Pacifie depends upon the action of
Japan. There is a s ying "(not clearly audible, but appears to
be 'it is absurd')" in Jupan that is applicable to such unreason-
able pretext, and it must be coneidered very appropriate. Since
Japan is about to be drawan in by such a provocative situation,
that is the reason why a war preparaticn to enable her to under-
take a greater war is being per ected in spite of the fact that
she is presently carrying on the China incident. irstly, let us
consider in what manner her war preparation is being perfected
in tho econonic fields, which is tho source of a nation's strength.
Along the recent reasures that have been adopted are the strength-
uning of the banking system (?), the nobilization of labor though

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
Page4
industrial organization, the strengthening of the productive
power as a neans to cope with the fluctuation or prices, the prae-
tical utilization of .............. facilities, the national co-
operation in the ........... of metallic minerals and the adnini-
strative methods to carry cut these teasures. In order to cope
with the present acute situation, nothing is more important than
the strengthening and expansion of our national strenght, and
everything is dependent upon the expansion oi our productive
power. Consequently, it is needless to mention  at emphasis is
being placed upon this angle in Japan's war preparation econonic
Heasures, too. One of these is the plan to increase the produc-
tion of low priced (?) goods, which was adopted by the price con-
trol co:ittee and referred to the govermment on August 12. Origin-
ally speaking, the problens of low priced (?) goods and increased
production are incompatible and are regarded as difficult to rea-
lize. Of course, it it were to bo sourit in the economy of Eng-
land and America, it certainly would be a difficult problem. Re-
gardless of the extent to which the econory or England and Ameri-
ca has been alined (?) to controlled economy, this problem of
goods would trouble them to the last. However, this difricult
task is about to be accomplished in Japan by heving it referred
to the sovernent on August 12. That is, a brilliant result is
about to be accomplisled through national cooperation estranged
fron the deands and aims of pure economy. It is worthy of note
that because of this national solidarity the shortage of raw ma-
terials vill be made up and Japan's war-time economy will be en-
hanced. Now, we vould like to give you a rough sketch of the
plan to increase production of low priced (?) coods. (Lentioned
the pegging of the labor and other cost at the present level,
the enforceient of regulations in every aspect of prcduction and
distribution, the utilization oi suspenede facilities anc the
mobilization of labor.) This clearly is an apprehension of the
concept cf laissez-faire and is a very di ficult task, but in view
of our four yoars oi experience in the China ineident, our match-
less solidarity and cooperation will undoubtedly accomplish this
and brang about a great result. nd to indirectly aid in the in-
crease of production, the rationalization of cnnsumption is being
urged and strengthened. (Record indistinct). Besides, various
counter-measures to cope vith erica's embargo on scrap-iron
have been enacted and one or these is the withdrawal of metallic
:aterials. (Record indistinct) This :.easure of withdrawing me-
tallic materials substantiates the fact that attention has been
given to the minutest details in Japan's economy, and this ra-
tional ethod is reportedly beins studied by the Americans, too,.
On the other hand, in regurd to our trade, cur governnent
thoroughly strengthened her trade control regulations as of July
7th and coripiled a list of 600 articles that cannct be exported
to a foreign country without the permission of the governieit.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
Page5
Furthernore, this list has been increased to 792 articles by
August 7. Hence, through the execution of the control regulation
our country's trade policy has cut off its dependence upon Ingland
and America and our export has become an export for the creation
of an East Asia rutual prosperity sphere and for the accorplish-
rant of our political responsibilities. Since the severance of
dependence of Japan's eccnony upon England and Anerica is based
upon the materials within this mutual prosperity sphere, it is
for t is reason that Japan's economy has creat confidence in it-
self even if the worst should core. Although this is not an
easy task, this is being made possible by the desperate efforts
of the nation. Only in this vay can our national strength, which
has been carefully and capably carrying on the China incident for
a number of years now, thorougily smash to pieces the under-valua-
tion of our national strength even in the fiture. Ingland and
America are claiming that the key to the Pacific problens rests
upon Japan's action, but against this we would like to rely that
the peace of the Pacific depends upon the actions of England and
America. However, because ve have made such a refutation, it
does not mean that England and America will become quiet and that
the problem is of such nature th at it could be easily settled
if the concept of "Hast is East and West is West" is followed.
In other words, the future trend of the Russo-Geran war and ng-
land and America's action will detemnine the attitide of Japan.
The reason why war broke out between France and Germany in spite
of the great difference in strength is that France under-rated
Germany and over-rated herself.  In a similar way, if there is
any nation that under-rates Japan and over-rates hersclf, she in-
evitably will experience an unfortunate consequence. Revealing
Japan's mental var preparation, Capt. Hiraide ci the Japanese
Havy stated as follows: "Japane se, unlike the other races, are
not a race that will yield to oppression, but they are a race
that loves peade. However, there is a limit to being petient to-
ward oppression. If this limit is exceeded, the patience of the
Japare se will ex lode. The condition of Japan, today, is like
the calm before the storm. She is patiently holding herself in
readinees in this calr. If the worse cones to the worst, she
will have to undertale o ............ war. Consequently, this
is not the ti.e to be excited". Hence, our domestic trend is
being driven ............. anidst this crisis ith tais mental
var preparation.
Children of Hawaii, this is your news hour fron Tokyo,
Only half a month is left of the Sunmmer vacation, which started
from the first of this nonth. The children of Tokyo are every
dey waking up fron bed early and going to school or narby sguares
to perform their early nornine exercises in tune vith the music
blaring forth from the radio and to swin in the pools in the hot
afternoon or to o into the suburbs to catch dragon flies and
spend their day in a healthy wa . Since there is still half a

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
Page/6
month until Septeniber 1, when they have to return to school,
their complexion will become very dark as though they had spent
their ti e at the beach every day. How, the first news is about
the fierce raids of Chungking, which is the overnment site of
Chiang Kai-shek, by our naval air force and you have heard, I be-
lieve, from your mothers and fathers of how these raids have
troubled Chiang Kai-shek and his followers. For weven days start-
ing from August 8 and cnding on August 14, our naval air force
has raided Chungking, so etime at night and soretime dur ing the
day. The number of planes that took part in this raid reported-
ly has been revealed as 1,Oo0 planes. I believe that you have
read of the Gernian air force's raids of London and Moscow, in
the current European war in the newspapers, but have failed to
read about the raids of the Japa.ese naval air force because of
its frequent nature. However, the eir raid of Chungking is a
far ore difficult task that the air raids of  scow and London.
Since the details are military secrets, I cannct make it known.
At any rate, Chungking, the headcuarters of Chaing Kai-shek, is
situated in the southwestern interior region of Ch ina and to
reach this city, our naval air force must keep on flying for
rany hours, In addition to this, this region is filled vith
high mountains and al though it may have been clear at the pl ce
fror: where our naval air face took flight, tis region is fre-
quently covered with dark black clouds and in the midst of a
storm. Hence, the task of our naval air force in raiding Chung-
king under these conditions is too great to describe. At first,
when our naval air force appeared over Chungking, the Chinese
shot at our planes with their anti-aircraft cuns, but since all
or their military establishments iave practically been destroyed,
they cannot shoot at our plunes now. Besides, since the rajority
of their planes, which cote to meet our planes, are shot down,
none of then appear now. Although they have some planes, it hay
be that they ere hiding them under the ground. Consequently, our
naval air force can bomb the enemy to their heart's content and
Chungking literalty has become a city of ruins. According to
reports received here, Chimg Kan-shek, fearing this devastating
attacks of our air force, is thinking of shifting his covernient
to ancther region far inland, but no  atter where Chiang Kai-
shek may escapt, it is needless to nention that our air force will
pursue and bomb his troops so lons as he does not surrender to
our country. The Japanese troops are drop ing their bombs and
punishing Chiang Kai-shek's troops ever: day, but are still con-
tinuing their studies in aviation tactics to becore better soldiers.
As en exaaple, 10,O00 kealthy youths have been selected in Tokyo
to receive training in aeronautics at the glider training school
in Ibaraki Prefectur'. Well, good-byc, children of Hawaii.
This is all for today.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.91)
Federal Burean of Javestigation
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Anited States Department of
SEP 2: 1941
那ashington, D. C.
Department of State
September 8, 1941
STATE
PERSONAL AND
RECHIVHD
SEP23 1941
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
OF STATE
DIVISION
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
-1941
Washington, D. C.
17.
PERLE
894.7615
My dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest I am transmitting
herewith translated transcripts of radio broadcasts
7b
from Tokyo, Japan for the period of August 1l, 1941
4
to August 15, 1941, inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
1. 20. 2400ver
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
PILED
FOREIGN
ACTIVITY
CORRELA
(5)
0
SEP
91941
W
DECLASSIFIED
Justres Depastmeut CGouidelies, 1.2'. 1984
NARS, Date 5.16.1984
BYBR1C

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/11/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Nows:
Japanese military air force yestcrday raided Chungking
and causcd considerable damages.
Description of the pro-Japanese atmosphere in Annam by a
Domei reporter.
An artificial larynx invented by a Japanese medical offic-
er. Said to be the best in the world.
A meeting of the mobilization committce was held this morn-
ing at the premier's residence. Discussed and approved the mobilization
law passed by the House of Commons.
The sumner aviation course for youths, which was being held
in Tokyo, to stimulate aviation interest among youths, was ended today.
About 7o instructors of the Kokumin Gakko attended this summer course. A
glider course also is scheduled to be hcld later.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, England's military
move against Thailand has reached its peak. Besides complcting strong de-
fensive fortifications about 30 kilometers away from the border, the Eng-
lish has blockadcd thc highway leading into Thailand from Malay. Further-
more, Australian troops are being landed in Burma and are being sent to-
ward the Thailand border. Morcover, numerous American made planes re-
portedly havo arrived in Singaporc, besides the completion of an air-
plane manufacturing factory and an automobile manufacturing factory.
According to a dispatch from Manila, the pricos of goods
are rising due to the shortage of shipping. This tendency is being all
the morc accelcrated by the frcezc order and the oxport restriction reg-
ulations. Grcat shortagc of cvery day nccossities imported from Japan
in thc past is being expeoricnced.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, tho Japanese, who
had evacuated from Singaporc, have arrived in Bangkok and are waiting for
passage home. In rogard to thc English moves in Singapore and Malay, they
stated as follows: "Airplanes are making practico flights cvory day over
the city of Singapore and many Australian, Indian, Malayan and English
troops aro concentrated within tho city. In Malaya, tho authoritics are
trying to make the rosidents focl at ease with propaganda to the effect
that the defense of Malaya has boen completed and that numerous American
.........have arrived in Malaya. However, these propaganda
have had no offect, for the people are feeling more uneasy every day.
Due to tho landing of Japaneso troops in Fronch Indo-China, tho attitude
of the Chinese immigrants tovard Japaneso is changing for the better day
by day".

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
Mr. Nagaiya (?) and Mr. Saito, who had accompanied and
worked with Delegate Yoshizawa in Dutch East Indies, yesterday returned
to Kobe and stated as follows in regard to the condition in Dutch East
Indies: "The government of Dutch East Indies is emphasiang the fact that
her frooze order against Japan was executed from an altogether different
point of vicw than that of America. She is explaining that hers was exe-
cuted from an economic point of vicw, while America's was executed from a
political point of viev. The credit agreement (?), she explains, was sus-
pended because it has become impossible to base the exchange on the dollar
due to Amcrica's freeze. Dutch East Indies recognizes the nocessity of the
creation of a mutual prosperity sphere in East Asia, but is opposing Japan
because Japan is an ally of Germany. If England and America should un-
justly oppress her, Dutch East Indies is prepared to resist them".
In regard to the propaganda that Japan has made some ser-
ious domands of Soviet Russia; tho Soviet Government made public the false
naturo of this propaganda, claiming that no demand has yot been made by
Japan. The motive of these propaganda, it is believed, was to turn Jap-
an's attention toward the north and give Britain time to strongthen her
position in tho south.
According to a dispatch from Rome received by tho Tokyo
Nichi-Nichi Shimbun, a conference of eight nations (affiliated with the
Axis) may be called within a week. The purpose of this conforonce will
be to strengthen the Axis allianco for a stand against England, America
and Soviet Russia. These eicht nations are Gormany, Italy, Hungary, Ru-
mania, Bulgaria, Finland, Czechoslovakia and Croatia. The matter of joint
usage of the natural resourccs of these eight nations will be discussed.
This conference of cight nations will be built up to take the place of the
League of Nations and handlc the aifairs of Europe. A similar report was
received from UP from New York.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, tho Gorman air force
raided Moscow on the night of August 9 and caused considerable damages in
Central and Eastern Moscow regions. According to a DNB report, the German
air forco on August 9 destroyed a Soviet destroyer near the Karadia Strait
(phonetic). ccording to a communiquo issued by tho German High Command
on ugust 10, the Gcrman air forcc has destroyed over 10,000 Russian planes
since tho beginning of hostilitics. In regard to the German troops' pro-
Cress in Ukrainia, the German High Command issued the following communi-
que yesterday: "The Gorman air force yesterday, August 9, raided the
Russian mechanized divisions, tank divisions, artillery divisions and
other divisions near the Dnepr River in Ukrainia. In this air raid, the
German air force dostroyed 63 Russian tanks, 230 trucks, and 9 cuns and
shot down 32 Russian planes in an air duel, besides destrcying 7 Russian
planes that were on the ground. Besides, German bombers raided another
Russian division in Ukrainia and dostroyod 31 tanks and 27 trucks. On the
other hand, according to a communique issued by the Russian High Command
on August 10, the Russian air forcc, in cooperation with the land force,

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
raided the German troops along the whole front on August 9 and 10 and al-
so raided the German air bases behind the line.
According to a communique issued by the German High Command
on August 10, the German air force on August 9 bombed and sank a 6,000 ton
British ship off the east coast of.................and on the same night
raided a group of convoys off the Finnish coast and destroyed about 23,000
tons of ships. Another squadron on the night of August 9 bombed and des-
troyed one British freighter and damaged another British cruiser off.......
Still another squadron on the night of August 9 raided and bombed the har-
bor facilitics along the castern coast of Scotland.
According to a communique issucd by the Italian High Com-
mand on ugust 10, the Italian air force raided and bombed the British
naval base in Malta and destroyed onc ship and numerous harbor facilities.
Anothor squadron raidod a British ship off the cast coast of........
whilo in the central part of the Lkoditerranean Sea, an Italian submarine,
cooperating with an Italian patrol plane, sank a British submarine.
The Italian High Command yestorday, ugust 10, madc the fol-
lowing announcement in rogard to thc lossos for July: Losses sufferod in
North frica--160 killed, 220 wounded and 580 unknown. Losses suffered in
Greeco--(Army) 380 killed, 391 wounded. (Navy) 136 killed, 100 wounded.
(Air Force) 36 killed, 62 wounded and 78 unknown.
News of the week:
News of the landing of the Japanesc troops in Southern French
Indo-China on July 28.
Nows of the Japanese naval air force's raid durin the past
week ( roview of the past woek).
News of tho announcement of the rewards granted by the em-
peror to tlhose who had rendercd distinguished services in this incident on
August 7.
Nows of the newspapermen's conference, sponsored by the
Nanking govornmont on August 4. (reocrd very indistinct).
Nows of the decision to establish some kind of ym in com-
memoration of the 26 centennial anniversary of the founding of the empire
held last Autumn by the Prefectural covernment on August 5.
News of thc organization of a patriotic club in the univer-
sitics.
Nows of tho plan of the Statistics Bureau to conduct some
kind of survey from October 1 to September 30 to contribute toward the bet-
termond of living conditions and increased production of food-stuffs.

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
News of the socond annual grass cutting tournament.
News of the statement mado by President Shingo Fukuda of
Kanebo Textile Company. He explained that Japan's textile industry will
not be affected in the least bit by the economic coersion of England and
America, because preparations had boen made in anticipation of this period.
Japanese music.
Talk by Shinichi Nanjo, of Tokyo Nichi-Nichi Shimbun, on the
patriotic scenes behind the front: Digest of the talk--The talk was a very
short one and was out-and-out propaganda. The speaker claimed that all
rumors pertaining to the shortage of food-stuffs and necessities in Japan
were false, basing his contention on the fact that rationing does not al-
ways mean a shortage. He explained that rationing was being enforced as a
moans of economy and not because of lack of raw materials and man-power.
He claimed that raw materials are still plentiful in Japan and are being
saved for better uses in order to creato a stronger nation. He stated that
rationing was being enforeed to prevent individuals from making great pro-
fits by making unnccessary things. He described the life of present day
Japan, especially the practice of cctting up carly and taking part in tho
early morning radio exercise as a sign thut Japan has not weakcned and doos
not lack man-power. The speaker stated that ho passed through imerica on
his way back from Europe.
Japanese musics.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanose national anthem.

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/12/41
Frequcncy 17,795 Kilocycles.
News:
To celebrato the peaceful landing of the Japanese troops,
a banquet was hcld at Saigon on the nite of August 1l. The banquet was
attended by Lt. Gc. Sumida and his staff and 18 high ranking officials of
French Indo-China.
Description of the orderly conduct of tho Japancse troops
landed in Southern French Indo-China.
Tomorrow is the fourth anniversary of the Shanghai Battle,
which led to the aggravation of the current incident. Recalling his mem-
ories of that time, Admiral Hasegawe, formcrly suprome commander of the
Japanese fleet in China waters and presontly governor-general of Formosa,
stated as follows: "With the aggravation of thc incident, the main strength
force of the third squadron, including Izumo and others, called of its
maneuvers and roturned to Shanchai on August 10. Immediately, conncctions
and other preparations wore made, but what worried us the most was the
problem of the Japanesc residents. It was very clear that some of these
Japanese rosidents will be jotimized in cvent of the worst. As tho in-
dividual responsiblc, I was worried very much. However, fortune smiled
on us and relievcd mueh of my worrics. Although we were very dissatisficd
with the attitude of the Chinese in regard to the assassination of Lt.
Oyama, we tricd to settle it paticntly with thc idea of not wanting to ag-
gravate the situation. In spito of this, tho situation wms graduelly ag-
gravated with the concontration of more Chinesc troops. On the morning of
August 13, we were fired upon, thus compelling us to retaliato. They
tried to bomb Izumo by plane, but they were not sufficiently trained as
to bo able to make onc direct hit. Then, on August 15, wo sont our planes
to raid Nanking, and the army arrived on August 23. It is a wonder that
they were ablc to withstarnd the attacks of the Chinese, who out-numbered
thom".
In commemoration of the fourth annivcrsary of the Shanghai
Battle, thc inistry of War will distribute the sccond volume of Jinchu
Roku (Battle Rocord) tomorrow, Au;ust 13. Volume 1 of the Jinchu Roku was
distributed some time last August. The second volume is a record of the
battles, land, sea and air, staged betvwcen August 18 and September 15 of
1937.
The Japanese military air force yestorday morning, August
11, raided Entokei and Kaiken in Szechwan Province and also Chungking.
The Japancse naval air force yesterday, August Jl, raided
Taiheiji, Horyu and Toito and causod considerable damagos to the Chineso
military establishnents and air fields, besides shooting down 5 planes and
dostroying 16 planos on tho ground.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2
Another squadron of the Japanese naval air foroo raidod
Kumming in Yunnan Province.
Astronomers pruparing to leave for the south to obsorve the
total oclipso of tho sun, which will occur on September 21.
50,000 booklets pertaining to the necessaity of koeping nat-
ional secrets from lcaking out to the forein nations in times of peace and
war to be distributed throughout Japan. Some of the advices listed in this
booklet are "Don't be a fifth columnists", "Don't reveal anything that will
be of any benefit or use", and others.
Passengers of a ship that arrived in Kobe today stated as
follows in regard to the situation at Davao: "Evcr since the outbreak of
the China Incident, the government of Philippines has stationed troops in
Davao to prevent disturbanees among the people, but the troops, not being
trained propcrly, were vory poor. Recently, many American made planes
have been flying about and bomb proof chambers are being dug, but compared
with the preparations made at Manila, they are far from good. However,
the Japancse residents are pursuing their occupetion as usual. Thc Fili-
pinos and Chinese in that rogion do not discriminatc against the Japan-
ese. In spite of thc fact that the Chinese arc supporting the Wang Ching
-wei government deep in their hcart, they cannot help but show their sup-
port toward Chungking on the surface".
In regard to the anti-Japanese incident brought about by
the accusation that Japanesc were fighting on the side of the Peruvians,
our government has lodged a protest with the government of Ecuador throuch
our Ministor Yanagi. Now, according to a dispatch rcccived by our Foroign
Ministry from Minister Yanagi, the government of Ecuador has promised to
investigate the untovard incidont a ainst the Hirakawa Maru and take ap-
propriate actions.
In view of the British propaganda misleading the people of
Thailand to believo that tho Japancse troops might invado Thailand at any
time now, the government of Thailand again has made public her determin-
ation to rumain neutral und that she has not received any domand for mili-
tary bases within her territory from any forein power.
In regard to thc rumor that a conferenco of eight-nations
might be held in Europe, German authorities official denied this as ground-
1css.
According to a communique issued by the German High Command
on August 1l, mopping up operations are being conducted in the southern ,
regions of Ukrainia and Gorman oporations along the other fronts are pro-
grossing as schoduled. Besides, the Gorman air forco on the night of
August 10 raided tho industrial centcrs of Moscow and caused considerable
damages in the northwestcrn and eastorn sections of the city.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
According to a roport from Ankara, Germany reportedly is
concentrating 70 divisions of troops, composed of 1,000,000 men, at a place
south of Kiev for the occupation of Ukrainia, thus making the fall of Odea-
sa imminent.
According to a communique issued by the Russia High Command,
the Gorman troops have made some progress at Leningrad, Kiev and Odessa,
but this advance has been checked by the Russian troops. Besides, the
communique admitted the raid of Moscow and stated that 10 German planes
were shot dowm, besides the 35 shot down along the front. It also announced
the third raid of Berlin, by the Russian air force on August 1l.
Accordini: to a communique issued by the German High Command
on August 1l, the German air forcc raided England and Scotland on the night
of August 10 and bombed thc harbor facilities along the eastern coast. On
the other hand, the British air forcc raided French territories occupied
by Germany on August 10, but were repulsed with a loss of 10 planes. Fur-
thermore, German bombors raided Suez Canal on the night of August 10.
According to reports from Ankara, Romo and Berlin, the gov-
ernments of England and Russia rcquested the government of Iran to expel
all Germans immediately from Iran on iugust 9 with the thrcat that military
actions would be taken if this request is denicd. Reports from other
sources have revealed tiat England and Russia are requcsting Iran to allow
the passage of their troops through Iran, and this is being rcgarded by
Turkey as a serious menance to her.
Comment on curront cvents:
Topic 'England and mcrica's schome to disrupt the peace of
East Asia": England and America's coersion against Thailand was radually
begun from the early part of this yer. Ever since the strengthening of the
dofense of Singapore and the conclusion of an agrcement for tho joint usage
of Singapore between England and Ameriea, England began landing Australian
and native troops in Inlaya in grest numbers and, at the same time, sho be-
gan perfocting her war preparations by strengthening her air force and fac-
ilities. Al though she claimed that those were being done for the dofense
of her colonial settlements in East Asin, she had cone beyond the limit be-
fore any one know of it. Thus, she came to take an aggressive stond a-
gainst Frunch Indo-China and Thailand. Her gressive stand against French
Indo-China, in particular, brought about a situation that could no longer
be ignored from the stand point of stability and peace of East Asia. Honce,
France, having had hcr possession Syrin attacked some time ago and being
confronted with a similar danger in French Indo-China now, decided to de-
fend French Indo-China jointly with Japan, because she fully reconized the
fact that sho could not stand up against the &cgressors with hor present
strongth. Thus, thc question as to which--the archaic diplomacy of strik-
ing another's head and compelling one to acknowlodge the domands after
thrcatening him considerably or the righteous diplomacy based on sincere
understanding and cssentially exccuted with sincerity--would win out in the

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
end and is more practical has beon definitely answered by the conclusion
of the joint defense agreement between Japan and French Indo-China in favor
of righteous diplomacy. Today, no other means than the aggravation of the
war and the disruption of peace is left for policies of the nations ad-
vocating the old order to stand up against thc peaceful policies of the
righteous diplomacy. This is the reason why tho movements of the nations
advocating the old order all have the abominablo characteristic of ag-
gravating the war. They are displeased because tho actions of Japan, who
is striving for the creation of thc East Asia mutual prosperity sphere,
are all peaceful. Even the attempt to draw Chungking and Dutch East
Indies into the anti-Japancse group oncircling Japan, after all, is basod
on none other than the sinister desin to aggravate the situation in East
Asia. However, French Indo-China, now, is to be protected from the sini-
ster hands of the agtrussors by Japan and France. Although it cannot be
said that the dangor confronting French Indo-China has been completely
done away with, it can be stated that tho stability (?) of French Indo-
China now has absolutely becn strengthened. Consequently, it is safe to
regard that the cyes of the aggressors have been shifted from French Indo-
China to another dircction. The other dircction is nothing other than
Thailand. Thus, the burning point of Southwestern Asia has been shifted
from Frcnch Indo-China to Thailand. At the same time, propagandists have
come to propagandize the military collaboration of England, Amorica and
Chungking. They are propagandizing that reinforcement of troops in Burma
and Malaya has becn completed tnd that the fortification of the forest
areas, which had been going on for several months, has been completed.
Even the British authorities in Singapore have announccd that the military
preparations to thwart Japan's attompt to cut off the Burma route have
been completod, that numerous American made fighting planes have bcen safe-
ly shipped to Chungking and that America's war matcrial destined for Chung-
king are being safely transported in largo numbers, besides making public
tho collaboration among En land, America and Chungkin. And this sort of
propaganda to intimidato Thailand probably will be increased all the more
in the future. This hcs caused a grcat fear among thc Thailanders not a-
ware of the rcal situation. Their fear is that Thailand might be attacked
at any time now because of the En lish-hmerican-Chinese collaboration. The
only fear that Thailand has today is the joint military action of England,
America and Chungking, which arc surrounding Thailand. This English and
American threat against Thailand is making the people of Thailand harbor
the utmost fear. And, as cxpected, this fear has been expressed by a
representative at & mecting of the Thailand logislature on August 7. What
the said represontative said is as follows: "Today, Thailand is completoly
oncircled by England's armed force. What counter-measure has the govern-
mont devised?" In reply to this, a government official stated that no
counter-mesure has yet been devised. However, it appears as if the govern-
mont of Thailand, which has givon its recognition of Manchoukuo and is co-
operating with Japan as a member of tho East Asia mutual prospority spherc,
is fortified with the detcrmination to resolutely oppose any third power's
attempt of invasion. In regard to this, the government of Thailand made
public a statement on August 7, in which she revealed the fact that she has

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
yet reoeived no military demand from any third power, that she is not a-
fraid of any attack, no matter from what direction it may come, and that
she is prepared to fight to tho cnd for the preservation of her neutrality,
if worse comes to the worst, thus revealing her firm determination to op-
pose any third power's attempt of aggression. However, it is an obvious
fact that Thailand has not the strength capable of opposing the combined
strength of several nations at one time. Hercin lies Thailand's greatest
affliction. Although Thailand is determined to fight to the last against
any acgressor, Japan's intention, needless to mention, is preservation of
peace in East Asia. However, so long as there are war-mongors, who are
seeking for near area of war and this terrible situation is about to be
brought about in East Asia, Japan us well as the other nations of East
Asia must realize that the time has come for all to cooperato and nip this
in the bud. With the shiftin; of the crisis of Southwestern Asia from
French Indo-China to Thailand, the situation contering around Thailand has
turned to the worst. However, this crisis of Southwestern Asia may turn
toward the better or the worst depending upon the actions of the aggres-
sors. If they would straightforwardly rccognize the real situation in East
Asia, Thailand will be able to travel toward peace and prosperity. And so
long as they do not resort to arms,..............stability naturally will
be guaranteed. Consequently, this crisis of Southwestern Asia can be al-
leviated somewhat by the aggressors. This is the real stato of the crisis
in Southwestern Asia. By ascertaining this situation, it can readily be
scen that the crisis of East Asia is attributable to the tenancious scheme
of England and America. No matter how adversely England and America may
propagandizo the joint defense of French Indo-China, it can be seen that
they are falsifications and fabrications that need not be heeded. And as
a practical problem, it can only be said that the nations of East Asia
should unite into one and protect themselves, so long as this sinister
hands of the aggressors move about. Now, let us consider what the suc-
cess of the creation of an East Asia mutual prosperity sphere, which Japan
is strivin for, and the whole-hoarted cooperation of Thailand mean. To
those who understand the word "Morality", we would frankly reply that it
is the sublime victory of morality. Throuch her cooperation with Japan,
French Indo-China has been able to preserve herself intact. The same can
be said of Thailand. The thing that is drawing the attention of the world
today is the schedulod discussion between President Roosevelt and Promier
Churchill. It is being reportcd that they will scriously discuss the
problems of East Asia, instead of the measures to talke against Germany.
We wonder what its result will be. But no matter what they may attempt, the
problems of East Asia will be settled by the nations of East Asia. The
fact that Thailand is cooperating with Japan and is inclining toward the
new order croup indicates the real stato of affairs in East Asia and is
because she has confidonco in the strength of Japan. Bosides, thoro is no
othor course for Thailand to take, but this. So long as the hands of dis-
ruption exist in East Asia, it is only proper for the joint defense of East
Asia to be onlarged and strengthened. When wo take into consideration the
close relations botveen England's scheme to lure America into the confusion
of East Asia and America's action of blindly following England in spite of

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
Pago #6
her precautions against it and its appearance as the real element contri-
buting toward the disruption of East Asia, it is only proper that we speed
up the strengthening and widening of the joint defense in East Asia. From
and object point of view, it would not be a mistake to regard that the sit-
uation in Last Asia is as mentioned above.
Japanese music.
(Translator's note: Usually a talk by some prominent Jap-
anese follows this comment on current events, but it must have been unwit-
tingly omitted by the recorder).

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/13/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
News:
Japanese military air force raided Sian and Bunken in Shensi
Province yesterday.
The Hich Command of the Japanese fleet in China waters made
public the achievcments of the Japancse naval air force during the period
from August 1 to August 10. (Record very indistinct).
(Something about the Japanese government. Record very in-
distinct making it impossible to crasp the text of the news).
Editorials of the newspapers all touching upon the fourth
anniversary of the Shanghai Battle and stirring up the resolution of the
nationa. Also, mentioned tho state of affairs in Shanghai, today.
Fourth anniversary of Shanghai Battle observed in Shanghai.
Graves of the soldicrs who had died in action decorated. Numerous other
ceremonics performed.
Director Hazama of tho press relations bureau of the Japanese
fleet in China wators made public a statement in which ho described the out-
break of the Shanghai Battle and stirred up thc rusolution of the nation.
To commemorate the fourth anniversary of the Shanghai Battle,
Admiral Shimada, Commander-in-chief of the Japanese flect in China waters,
today visited the graves of Lt. Oyama and others.
In commemoration of the fourth anniversary of the Shanghai
Battle, Chiang Kai-shek made public the following statement: "The solf-
dofense of China, today, has entered the period of Pacific defense. In
cooperation with the anti-Jupanese cconomic oppression of England, America
and Dutch East Indies, we should do our best to prcvont the materials of
the war zone from falling into the hands of Japan".
Chungking's economic difficultics are becoming more serious
day by day. (Record very indistinct).
Thailand authorities again made public its dotermination to
remain neutral (Record very indistinct).
Something about Darlan assuming the posts of ministcr of de-
fonsc, foreign affairs, and navy concurrently. (Record very indistinct).
Somothing about an AP dispatch from Berlin claiming the cap-
ture of a little town 6o kilometers cast of Odessa by German troops, and a

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
age #2
Gorman report claiming that Russian troops are retreating by way of the
Black Sea.
According to a Germany report, a fiorce air ducl was staged
over Kiev betveen German and Russian planes on August 12 and the Germans
in that air duel shot down 28 Russian planes.
According to a London report, the German troops have advanced
to a point 70 kilometers away from Odessa at onc point and 40 Kilometers
away from Nikolaev at another point.
Comment on current events:
Topic secms to be "Effect of the landing of Japanesc troops
in French Indo-China upon England and imorica"; (Record very indistinct).
The text of thc talk, judging from sentonces heard now and then, seems to
be a denounciation of England and imerica as the two nations bringing about
tho crisis in East isia. It dcscribed England's scheme as an attempt to
subjugate Thailand and makc her England's colonial settlemont, and stated
tho reason for tho conclusion of tho joint defense agreement of Fronch
Indo-China as a measure to counteract the cvil design of Encland and imerica,
and closod with the statement that tho problems of East sia should be left
alone for the nations of East sia to solve.
Japanese Music.
Domestic news: (Record vory indistinct).
Nothing of particularly interesting nature. Nows pertaining
to national service of youths and other patriotic movemonts.
Japanosc music.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 8/14/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
(Translator's note: Received only two records. Records
very indistinct).
Something about the attempted assassination of Hiranuma.
Something about Australia (impossible to makc out anything).
Absolutoly impossible to make out anything).
Somothing about Singapore.
(Absolutoly impossible to make out anything).
Something about the Japanesc naval air force raiding some
city.
Something about Chungking.
(Terrible. Just noisc).
(Recorder's note: Sinal very poor tonight)

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
1on JLU4 Program
to 8/15/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
News:
According to a dispatch from Hongkong, internal dissension
has cropped out among the officials of Chungking in connection with the
question of the shifting the site of the government.
Mr. Eiji Amau, former Japanese ambassador to Italy, today
was appointed vice-minister of forcign affairs. Personal history of Amau
--Native of Tokushima Prefecture. 55 years of age. Served in China, Eng-
land, Australia, Switzerland and Russia. Returned to Japan in 1933 and
succceded Shiratori as director of the information bureau. Noted for his
Amoo statement mude against Secretary of Stato Stimson at the time of the
Manchurian incident. From minister to Switzerland, became ambassador to
Italy, in September of 1939.
The army and buroau of awards today simultancously announced
the granting of honors to those who had rendered distinguished services
in the Shanghai Battle, Soochow Battle and others.
The cmperor today announced the granting of the rank of
baron to Dr. Mataro Nagavo, dean of Japan's medical circle.
Althouch the eight point plan decided upon by President
Roosevelt and Premicr Churchill was reccived on tho night of August 14, no
official comment has yet been releasod by our government. However, it is
worthy of note that they refrained from discussing tho Far Eastern problem.
Minister of Statc tlec yesterday made public the eight point
plan, discussed by President Roosovelt and Premier Churchill. This cight
point plan is somewhat similar to tho 14 point plan, proposed by President
Wilson during the World War.
Although no official comnent has yet been mado, the polit-
ical circle of Japan pointed out two intorosting facts in regard to the
eight point plan. Firstly, En land has now definitely made known her war
aim and secondly, England and merica arc aiming for world supremacy.
The Nanking covernment is regarding tho cight point plan
as England and America's attempt to buy peaco with money and America's
participation in the war.
The Chungking government roportodly is very displcased with
the eight point plsn, according to a dispatch from Shanghai, bocause of its
abstract naturc. The Chungking government had been expecting that some
discussion will be made in rugurd to Japan, but nothing had been said.
Germany is regarding the cight point plan as merely a

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
2
propaganda bluff and unfortunate for England and America that they had to
make such announcoment at a time when the successive victories of the Ger-
man troops in Ukrainia are being reported day after day.
Well-informod circles of Rome arc regarding the cight point
plan as having no wcight and nothing sonsational and are regarding England's
clarification of hor war aim as absurd.
In regard to tho cight point plan, a spokosman of thc Vichy
government stated that it is an cxact replica of President Wilson's 14
point proposal made in a concise form and will contribute nothing toward the
presorvation of peace.
In his inaugural broadcast as minister of defense to the men
of the French army and navy, Vice-Promier Darlan statcd yestorday that he
will follow thc course set by Pronier Potain, bcsides expressing his sincore
appreciation toward tho men who had sacrificed themselves for France.
Acccrding to a dispatch reccived by the Asahi Shimbun from
Bangkok, England's coercion against Thailand is beooming very great. Be-
sides her political, military and cconomic cocrcions, hor propaganda war,
of late, has becomc very active. That is, broadcast toward Thailand from
London and other British possessions aro being strongthened and are report-
ing that tho landing of Japanosc troops in French Indo-China is Japan's
first stop toward the invasion of Thailand. The motive of these broadcasts
is to alionate Thailand from Japan.
According to a dispatch from Hanoi received by tho Yomiuri
Shimbun, England reportedly is domanding for the railway line running from
Aran to Bangkok to irucha (phonctic) and is threatening to take it by force
if Thai refusos.
Announcenent of the Thite Hiousc appointing Willys Peck as the
now United States ministcr to Thailand succecding Hugh Grant, rosigned.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the allicd troops of
Germany and Rumania rcportedly have reachcd a certain point midway botween
Bug River and Odossa noar the Dlack Sea, thus completely cutting off Odossa.
On the other hand, the German air force on August 13 raided Odessa and the
Russian transports along thc coast and successfully dostroyed about 14,000
tons of Russian ships, bosides damaging five othor large Russian ships.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Tho trend and character of the anti-Japanese encircle-
ment": It is an undeniablo fact that morica, Britain, Chungking and Dutch
East Indies are strongthcning thcir somi-circlo BCD anti-Japanese encir-
clement, and it is an undeniablc fact, too, that their policy of blockading
and checking Japan has been shifted toward Thailand, where they are using

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
ge #3
the tactic of intimidation and pacification. Honoc, the ABCD group are try-
ing to win over Thailand, which comprises a part of the mutual prosperity
sphere, for the accomplishment of the oncirclement of Japan and are even
determined to carry out armed action if Thailand refuses. It is only proper
for Thailand, which has not yet bccome a powerful nation, to bo frightened
at such high-handed intimidations and rack her nerves. Hencc, Thailand has
repeatedly expressed her neutrality and has pathetically stated that she
will fight against thc agrossors to the last drop of her blood for the pre-
servation of her neutrality. Bocausc she has expressed her neutrality, Thai-
land is not siding with Japan us well as any of the nations within the
ABCD bloc. Thus, it is needloss to mention that her intention is to main-
tain friendly relations with any nation. Conscquently, Japan has respected
this intention of Thailand to maintain strict ncutrality and has not oven
onco criticizcd her. Besides, she has not even made such unreasonable de-
mand as to demand that she abide by Japan alono. What Japan is asking is
that she makc closer her peaccful cconomic relations with Japan. On the
other hand, England and Amorica, poking a dacger at Thailund's throat, are
threatening Thailand that she will bo conquered by Japan if she does not
do what they say and becomo a wing for the blockading of Japan. From the
standpoint of Thailand, we wonder which side is unreasonable. What wo must
take note at this time is that Thailand's announccment of her ncutrality
is essontially bascd on her dotcrmination to fight against any aggressor.
And since Japan, as wo havo just stated, has no torritorial ambition a-
gainst Thailand and harbors no intention to intimidato Thailand as cleimed
by Chungking, the nations by whom Thailand is impcrilod are the ABCD
group, especially England, who is watching for an opportunity, America,
who is supporting England, and Chungking, who is blindly following both.
Hence, it is clear that Thailand's announccment of her noutrality has
been made against England, who is busily porfecting her investing footing.
This is a very natural logic. In regard to this, & government official
of Thailand stated, "Since Thailand, althouch she is weak, is an indopen-
dent nation , she will not be a slave of England and America" and hinted
that Thailand is trying to find her real friend in Japan. Besides, im-
mediately after thc prcmier of Thailand had rejected imorica's proposal to
supply her with arms, another government official of Thailand stated that
Thailand doos not want arms as a compensation for becoming the victim of
the Far Eastorn struggle. Besides oxpressing our respects toward the calm
and appropriate views of the government officials of Thailand amid tho
false propaganda of England and imerica, wo arc vory clad of it for the
sako of Thailand's stability. Now, tho coercion of the ABCD group against
Thailand is oxactly the same as that which was manifosted against French
Indo-China by the various powers and, as has boen ropcatedly stated before,
it is a groat throat against our country. In fact, tho ABCD group is
strengthening its intimidation and pacification day by day and is busily
trying to perfoct tho oncirclement of Japan. And it must not be overlooked
that in this movement is cmbodicd thoir.................and intimidation.
Now, wo would like to ascertain the actual statc of affairs. Beginning
with Malaya, we find that England's plan to construct air ficlds along the
border of Thailand is progressing smoothly and that two of these air fields

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
g#4
reportodly aro nearing completion. Bosides, it is a fact that large
fortifications are being constructed by the British troops concentrated a-
long tho bordor of Thailand. (Record indistinct). England's scheme against
Thailand is becoming sharp day by day. She is holding back the performance
of her oil agreement with Thailand for the purpose of utilizing it for pol-
itical haggling and for the primary purpose of chocking Japan. Hence, she
is extending her patrol line even to a point far south and.................
................ What is worthy of notc is the way in which Eng-
land, who now has won America over to her side, will strengthen her coer-
cion of Thailand through her joint action with merica. This is the reason
why Thailand is confronting an imninent danger. Now, let us consider Bur-
ma. The internal situation of Burma has been kept a great secret. On the
other hand, the strengthening of her military strength through the ABCD
collaboration has been made public to the world in an unnecessarily loud
tone. (Record indistinct). However, the rcal fact is that there report-
edly arc only 2,000 to 3,000 Chinesc troops and about 30 to 40 planes con-
centrated in Northern Burma. Nevorthe less, the traffic of imerican
ships has become very croat ever since July and air planc factories for
the supplying of air planes to Chun king have beon constructed. In other
words, thc construction of air ficlds in Northern Burma is just as great
as in Lalaya. On the other hand, what is hurting England the most is vio-
lonce of tho Australian troops stationed along the border from Malaya to
Burma. Thoy reportedly have clascd with the Burmese troops at various
places. Besidos, duc to tho commandeering of food-stuffs and compulsory
(?) labor for thc construction of air ficlds, the anti-British sentiment
among the pcople of Burma is increasing day by day. According to a dis-
patch from India, 97 incidents have already occurred. (Record indistinct).
Now, let us consider the Dutch East Indies. Here has been built in great
secrecy recently a strong national defense. (Record indistinct). And
facilities to makc her thc supply conter of war materials are being
strengthened. In other words, sho has accopted the role of serving as the
kitchen for England and America. This is the reason why the ABCD group is
.... Now, in recard to the Philippines, cverything is as
Amorica wishes. It is imcrica's outlying station in the Far Eest. Gen.
Clement (phonetic), who is commandor-in-chief of the American air force in
the Far East, and who inspected the air ficlds in China for the purpose of
strongthening the air forcc of Chungking some timo ago, returned to Manila
on the 13th after his discussion and inspcction tour of the Dutch East
Indios. Ho reportedly is studying the means of utilizing the air fiolds
within the anti-Japanesc cncirclement sphere. Hence, torether with the
strengthening of Amcrica's Far Eastern military defonsc, air planc mater-
ials arc being sent to Chungking, Burma, Singapore, Batavia and Sydney for
tho purpose of strengthening the anti-Japanese cncirclomont array. Last-
ly, thero is no need to mention anything about Chungking, which is slowly
becoming a possession of England and America. Nevortheless, there seems
to be a few thoughtful persons within Chungking, for some of them are
criticizing imerica's soheme to place advisors within the various depart-
monts as imerica's plan to placo Chungking under tho control of merica
forever. In closing, we would like to state that we have tried to give
you a ccnoral picture of the anti-Japancse encirclemont movement that is

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
ago5
being attemptod by England and America and to point out the groat threat
it has, besides its weakness. And if a war should break out in East Asia,
that, as has been pointed out, will be due to England and merica's scheme
to disrupt the peace of East isia. Hencc, its responsibility naturally
should rest with England and America.
Japanese music.
Domestic news:
(Tohoku region)
News pertaining to festivities, national service movoments,
training of youths and other local activitics. Of these, the interesting
ones were the discovery of substitutes for scrap-iron and cobalt by a pro-
fessor of the Tohoku Imperial University, the establishment of a seamon's
training school for youths in the city of Miyako, Iwate Prefecture, and
the training of girls of a certain school in ikita Prefecture in military
tactics. In regard to the substitutos for scrap iron and cobalt, the sub-
stitutes were said to bo far better than the imported scrap-iron and co-
balt. Cobalt, it was said, vas derived from cokc. In regara to the sea-
men's training school for youths, thorc are cnly four of its kind through-
out Japan. In regard to the military training given to girls, it may be
an indication of the lack of man-power.
Japanesc musics.
Japanese national anthem.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
DCR
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
oF STATE
DIRECTOR
FE
D
Frderal Bureau of Rueatigation
Anited Etater Brpartmeat of Justire
30,1941
PERSONAL AND
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
894.76/55
Washington, D. C.
1-1941
MR.
BERLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest to you I am transmitting
herewith translated transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo,
Japan for the periods August 22, 1941 to August 28, 194l and
August 30, 1941 to September 2, 1941.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIHS
Sincerely yours,
194
Departmer! of State
20. stoover
Enclosures
OCT141941
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILED
PS/RT
1人
OCT 1 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Jutice Depactueut Guidelmes,
1.24.4984
By R1Q
5.16.1984

=== Page 269 === (confidence 1.00)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/22/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
News:
Japanese Government today adopted the resources mo.
bilization plan.
Thailand yesterday notified our foreign office that
the present Thailand minister to Japan will serve as acting ambas.
sador to Japan until further notice.
England and America have made public another six-point
plan aiming for the formation of a joint war front. Nothing new
expressed in the new six-point plan. In regard to this plan, the
opinion of our diplomatic circle is as follows: "Not only has it
been revealed by the oight points that were announced recently that
the so-called English and American program of new order is based on
the old Anglo-Saxon principle of peace and freedom, but it also is
a wafer cleverly concealing England and America's plutocratic im-
perialism hidden within the six-point plan. There is no need of
mentioning what the peacc and freedom of the races under the control
of England and America was. It is now time for those who have been
misled by these clever pieces of propaganda and have been helplessly
living a vicarious life to awaken.
Mexico's minister to Japan yesterday announced Mexi-
co's attitude toward Japan. He made it clear that Mexico holds no
anti-Japanese sentiment.
Recalling the landing of the Japanese troops at
Woosung on August 23, 1937, Colonel Endo and Major Tanahashi, both
of whom had charge of the landing, yesterday described their ex-
perience.
Students in Japan placed on war preparation footing
by Education Ministry. To be given special national service train-
ing in place of the regular curricular subjects.
To draw up her second five-year plan, the Manchoukuoan
government today held its second economic conference. A report of
the first five-year plan, which is approaching its final stage, was
made.
According to a report from Hsingking, plans for the
strengthening of relations between Nanking and Manchoukuo have been
decided.
According to a report from Hanoi, the French Indo-
Chinese government today rewarded the Annamese,who fought with the

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
French Indo-Chinese troops against the troops of Chungking in the
northern regions of Tonkin.
According to a communique issued by tne Cerman High
Command on August 21, the German troops captured Novogorod, Narva
(phonetic) and Kingisepp, along the northern front, and Kherson aiong
the southern front. Besides, the German troops captured 84,O00
Russians, 848 guns, 144 tanks and two armored trains. Hence, the
fall of Leningrad is imminent. Another report indicated that the
German troops are now but 20 kilometers south of Leningrad. On the
other hand, the German air force, cooperating with the land force,
bombed the Russian troops attempting to escape from Odessa by way
of the Black Sea.
According to a DNB report, the achievements of the
German troops during the past two months were as follows: Tanks
captured or destroyed--14,000. Airplanes captured or destroyed--
11,O00. Russian troops captured--1,200,000 (Russian lost believed
to be 5,000,O00 if wounded and killed are included). The size of
the torritory occupied by the German troops is far greater than the
whole of Germany, including her possessions.
According to a DNB report, the German air force
raided and destroyed supply trains along the central front and also
destroyed l20 supply trucks along the lower estuary of the Dnieper
River. Another squadron raided and destroyed two merchant ships,
totalling 7,Ooo tons, on the North Sea. Along the northern front,
the German air force dostroyed 14 armored cars, 294 lorries, two
supply trains and shot down 19 Russian planes. On the other hand,
the German air force in an air duel with British raiders over German
occupied territories shot down 27 British planes, while 23 other
British planos were shot down by German anti-aircraft guns. In all,
the Germans have shot down 93l British planes thus far and it is
estimated that the British have lost 2,800 pilots since June 22.
According to a communique issued by the Russian
High Command on August 21, the Russian trocps, unable to check the
German drive, have finally becn forced to withdraw from Gomel. Be-
sides, the communique also stated that ficrce fighting took place
at Kingisepp, Novogorod and Gomel and stated that Russian planes
shot down 21 German planes, while losing 12, on August 20, and 5 other
German planes that attempted to raid Moscow on August 21.
According to a communique issued by the Italian
High Command on August 21, the Italian air force raided Tobruk on
August 20 and caused considerable damages, besides sinking a British
tanker of about 10,O00 tons on the Mediterranean Sea. On the samc
day, British planes raided Sicilia, but were repulsed by Italian
planes.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
According to a despatch from Madrid, a newspaper of
Madrid published an interview held by its reporter with Minister
Goebbels, who reportedly made the following statement. "The report
that England can stand the economic war better than Garmany is
absurd. Germany for the past eiht years has beer preparing her.
self for this economic war. Even in the aspect of trnsporting
materials, Germany is much stronger than England who is being men-
aced by planes and submarines. Furthermore, if the nations of South
America do not want to become colonial settlements of America, they
must wipe away the threat of America's fifth columnists."
According to a despatch from Washington, the three-
nation conference at Moscow reportedly has been decided to be held
in the early part of September. Even the dates of the departure of
British and American representatives reportedly have been decided
but are being kept secret. Besides, England and America are urging
Chungking to send a representative to this conference, according to
a despatch from Hongkong.
According to reports from Dairen and Shanghai, the
conflict between Chungking and the Chinese Red Army is becoming
stronger day by day.
According to a report from Vichy, the Vichy govern-
ment roportedly has arrested 6,000 Jews (10,000 according to UP
despatch) in Paris to prevent the disruption of peace. Besides,
according to a despatch from Havre (?), a riot broke out among tho
railroad omployees, compelling the Gorman authorities in Paris to
issue a statement that all those, henceforth, instigated by America
and England, and taking part in riots will be sentenced to death.
In regard to the report of a clash between the
French and the British Navies off the eastern coast of Africa, the
Vichy government on August 21 stated that the report is false and
that the clash was merely between a French tanker and a British
warship.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Japan's war preparation": The foundation of
the greater East Asia mutual prosperity sphere has been made un-
shakable through the conclusion of the joint defense agreement of
French Indo-China, but with tho rapprochement of French Indo-China
toward Japan, the political, economic and military coercion of the
third powers is becomin stronger day by day. Around Japan, China
and Manchoukuo and including French Indo-China, the so-called ABCD
encirclement has been formed, and unreasonable, hostile measures
are being enacted more and more every day. By way of an illustra-
tion,if Japan were to be rogardod as a great rock standing upright
in the middle of a wide sea, it can be described as a succession of

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
great waves striking against the rock and trying to knock it down.
And the situation in East Asia can be said to be like the grcat rock,
Japan, with its foundations buried deep and wide, withstanding tho
repeated beatings of the great waves. Nevertheless, the ever-
changing objective situation of the world--namely, the dashing waves-
appears to have the possibility of becoming greater with the passing
of the days. In view of such a state of affairs, Japan's mission of
creating a greater East Asia mutual prospority sphere has come to.
hold a greater significance and is being pressed to make a rapid
progress. In proportion to this, Japan, who must go through with
this important mission, is now being pressed with the nocessity of
cstablishing a fimn, unshakable footing. Hence, recent national
movements have all beon furthered along this line and the so-called
war preparations footing has been taken for the express purpese of
perfecting our national defense. Consequently, our fcllow-countrios,
full of peaceful intentions and with a strong determination to pro-
tect our country's rights, have united as one and are striving to
establish a coordinated footing. As a result, an unshakable national
footing has been brought about. Now, let us pick out and report to
you roughly the very recent movements working for the perfection of
our war preparation footing. What is first worthy of note is the
16th and 17th meeting of the national mobilization committee hold
from the latter part of last month to the beginning of this month.
At this meeting of the national mobilization committec, the important
industrial organizations control bill, the coastal trade control
bill, and the amendments to the ocean transportation control law,
the bill pertaining to the withdrawal of gold and other important
minerals and eight other important matters to bo enacted as imperial
decrees were adopted. These bills have all been drafted and are
expected to be promulgated and enforced sometime this month. All
of thesc bills are aimed for the strengthening of the mobilization
law and are expected to expand production, harmonize transportation,
and expedito distribution of manufactured goods, and to be able to
cope with any situation with this as a basis. In conjunction with
this, measures to prevent malignant inflntion have also been adopted.
(Record indistinct). Of those, the important trade control bill and
the industrial organizations control bill have been commented upon
in a previous comment on current cvents and thus no further mention
will be made. So, today, let us comment in a somewhat detailed
manner upon the amendments to the ocean transportation control law.
In a word, these anendments will place ocean transportation under
the management of the government and through it our country's ocean
transportation will be brought up to the highest level. Its aim can
be stated as follows: Firstly, to enable the government to comuan-
deer all vosscls in time of war and to utilize inevitably these ves-
sels according to the transportation plan and war operation (?) plan
established by the government. Secondly, to enable the government
to commandeer the services of the ships' crews simultaneously with
the commandeering of the vesscls and make them sorve in accordance

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
Pagc # 5
with the allotment (?) and wages established by the government.
Thirdly, to cnable the government to take over the management of
the shipyards and factories manufacturing engines and accessories.
These are the three aims, but through them the government will be
able to exercise control over the three important branches of ves-
sels, crews and ship-building. Hence, the war preparation of the
shipping trade of Japan, which is surrounded by water on all sides,
has been given a firm foundation. Next, I would like to talk
about the transportation service (?). In regard to this, Minister
of Finance Ogura expressed a very constructive view before the
national finance discussion committee, which was held on August 20.
The gist of the Finance Minister's talk pertained to the determina-
tion of the financial circle to cope with the present acute internal
and external situation and the government:s attitude and urged the
expansion of production under the war preparation footing and the
harmonization of the circulation of money for the purpose of in-
creasing the industrial strength. Furthermore, on the following
day, August 21, 11 banks, mostly industrial, such as the Mitsui,
Mitsubishi, Yasuda and Sumitomo, formed a credit merger union (in
other words, an organization for the cooperation of mutual credit)
to help in the development of industries in this emergency. Now
let us consider the reaction of the nation toward the activities
of the government. In regard to this, the nation, too, as indicated
by the above-mentioned constructive movement of the financial circle,
is unitedly cooperating with the government. In other words, the
attitude of the nation to realize fully the mission assigned to it
by the government and to strive unitediy for the enhancement of our
national power without any sign of haughtiness is very reassuring.
Thus the nation today is burning with the spirit to serve their
country and is earnestly striving to put into practice the way of
the Gods in their respective occupations. However, in order to
strengthen further this spirit, national service societies have been
formed throughout the country with the National Support Socicty as
their leader for the purposo of carrying out a strong national ser-
vice movement. The aim of this is to wipe out liberalism and egoism
and to establish a nationwide labor service footing in conformity
with the aim of our country. In oter words, the primary aim is to
make the young as well as the old and the men as well as the women
all work for our country. Other things that can bec considered in
conjunction with this are the organization of the national support
youths' and childrens' organizations and the birth of the students'
national service societies, composed primarily of students of uni-
versities and technical colleges. In fact, such things as the
nationwide control of youths' organizations, with their important
task of increasing production, the national service movement of the
students, upon whom rest the fate of our country, and the merging
of the women's organizations can be said to be an indication of tho
fact that everyone residing within Japan is working for the enhance-
ment of our country. Besides, in order to solidify this national

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #6
unity and guide it most effectively, the national support society
recently compiled standardized booklets explaining the practical
theory of the national support society and distributed them through-
out the country. In a word, these booklets explained in simple
words the fundamental idea of the national service movement and
the course to be taken by the nation in this emergency and sought
for the determination and resolution of the nation to strive for
the creation of a new order in East Asia, the establishment of world
peace in the long run. Not only in East Asia, but in every part of
the world, the people are experiencing the pains accompanying the
birth of a new world. Japan in East Asia and Germany and Italy in
Europe can safely be said to be the three greatest nations of the
new world. Under this great mission, our country Japan has been
fighting for the past four years. Nevertheless, the situation in
East Asia is becoming more acute. To cope with this situation, it
can be said that our country is perfecting her footing and that the
nation is showing a reassuring stride in response to the government.
Domestic news: (Tokai district).
Nothing of particular interest, outside of the news
pertaining to the training of girls for overseas colonization in
Shizuoka and Iwate Prefectures and the encouragement of exports
toward French Indo-China, Thailand and the Dutch East Indies being
made in Shimizu.
Talk on Harbin by Otokichi Kurota (?) of Tokyo Nichi-
Nichi Shimbun: Described the city of Harbin and the number of
Japanese residing there.
Japanese music.
# # #

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/23/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Japanese music.
News: (Record not very clear. Full of static.)
Japanese naval air force raided Chungking and other
placcs on August 22.
Something about Japanese military air force raiding
certain provinces.
Somcthing about Ambassador Honds conferring with
high-ranking Chinese officials.
Something about a statement made by Wang Ching-wei
in regard to England and America's encirclement of Japan and aid
to Chungking. (Record very indistinct.)
Something about the raising of the standard of the
legations of Thailand and Japan to that of embassies.
Something about President Roosevelt's decision to
give positive aid to Chungking (?).
Something about the condition in Chungking.
Something about Australia's attitude toward England.
Something about the progress of the German troops
along the whole front, as announced by the German High Command and
reported by DNB news.
Something about the Finnish troops' progress toward
Leningrad.
(Several othor pieces of news in regard to the Ger-
man troops' activitics were broadcast, but record too poor to
catch anything definite.)
Comment on current events:
Topic seems to be something about England and America'e
aid toward Soviet Russia: Mentioned the possible routes to be used
by America in shipping her aid to Soviet Russia, and the opposition
against the proposed Sovict aid within America. Claimed that Amer-
1ca's aid to Soviet Russia will only aggravate the European war
and the situation in East Asia and that Japan is regarding it as
America's attempt to threaten Japan from the north. (Record too
indistinct.)

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
Children's new hour:
Talked about the crown prince of Japan and some other
thing.
Japanese music.
Program for the coming week.
Talk pertaining to Japan by .....
....... (record too
indistinct to catch the name of the speaker. Talk completely dis-
turbed by static. Words cau ht now and then, but no connection
possible.)
Japanese music.
Theme song.
(Recorder's note: Condition very poor.)
###

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/23/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Japanese music.
News: (Record not very clear. Full of static.)
Japanese naval air force raided Chungking and other
placos on August 22.
Something about Japanese military air force raiding
cortain provinces.
Somcthing about Ambassador Honds conferring with
high-ranking Chincse officials.
Something about a statement made by Wang Ching-wei
in regard to England and America's encirclement of Japan and aid
to Chungking. (Record very indistinct.)
Something about the raising of the standard of the
legations of Thailand and Japan to that of embassies.
Something about President Roosevelt's decision to
give positive aid to Chungking (?).
Something about the condition in Chungking.
Something about Australia's attitude toward England.
Something about the progress of the German troops
along the whole front, as announced by the German High Command and
reported by DNB news.
Something about the Finnish troops' progress toward
Leningrad.
(Several othor pieces of news in regard to the Ger-
man troops' activitics were broadcast, but record too poor to
catch anything definite.)
Conment on current events:
Topic seems to be somothing about England and America's
aid toward Soviet Russia: Mentioned the possible routes to be used
by America in shipping her aid to Soviet Russia, and the opposition
against the proposed Sovict aid within America. Claimed that Amer-
ica's aid to Soviot Russia will only aggravate the European war
and the situation in East Asia and that Japan is regarding it as
America's attempt to threaten Japan from the north. (Record too
indistinct.)

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #2
Children's new hour:
Talked about the crown prince of Japan and some other
thing.
Japanese music.
Program for the coming week.
Talk pertaining to Japan by ....
.... (record too
indistinct to catch the name of the speaker. Talk completely dis-
turbed by static. Words cau ht now and then, but no connection
possible.)
Japanese music.
Theme song.
(Recorder's noto: Condition very poor.)
###

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/24/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Comic talk.
Japanese music.
News:
Japanese troops in the northern part of Hupeh Province
reportedly have started a drive against the Chinese Communist troops
in that region. This region is regarded as one of the strongest
anti-Japanese regions.
Japanese naval air force again raided Chungking on
August 23, according to a comrunique issued by the press relations
bureau of the Japanese fleet in Central China ycsterday.
Another
squadron raided a city 300 kilometers west of Chungking.
In regard to the condition in Chungking, a German
who cscaped to Shanghai stated as follows: Due to the repeated
raids of the Japanese air force, two-thirds of Chungking have
alrendy been destroyed. Although the Chungking government is
claiming that she will fight to the last, the people in general are
advocating the conclusion of peace.
Japanese Ambassador to China Honda yesterday called
on Wang Ching-wei and conferred with him for about two hours.
Japanese Ambassador to America Nomura yosterday called
on Secretary of State Hull and discussed the Japanese-American prob-
lems with him.
According to a despatch from New York, the Mexican
government ordered the closing up of the German consulates within
Mexico on August 22. In connection with this, a Mexican official
stated that the closing up of Italian consulates within Mexico has
not yet beon considered.
In regard to the effect of cosmic ray on thc human
being, which has been puzzling the astro-physical circles for a
long time, Dr. Katsunuma, director of the Tohoku Imperial Univer-
sity's obsorvatory on Mt. Hodaka, has made a startling discovery.
Experimonting with a rat, he found that cosmic ray had a bad effect
upon the rat in various ways.
According to a London despatch, a British official,
who had visited Burma (?), stated as follows in regard to the de-
fense of Burma: The defense of Burma has been strengthened to such
an extent as to enable Burma to repulse the attack of any strong

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
power and in this defense of Burma troops, who have had actual war
experience in Grocce, Abyssinia and other places, have been sta-
tioned.
According to a despatch received by the Tokyo Nichi-
Nichi Shimbun from Bangkok, a Chinesc, who had returned from Bangkok
from his tour of Northern Burma, stated as follows in regard to the
condition in Northern Burma: Between Mandalay and Pakokku (?),
which forms the nucleus of the defense in Northern Burma, only
about 500 Chinese and 500 British troops are stationod. The rest
of about 2,Oo0 are mostly Indian and Burmese troops. Besides, tho
air force of Burma has over 100 planes but only about 30 of them
can actually be used in battle.
According to a communique issued by tho German High
Command on August 24, the allied troops of Germany and Hungary have
completely surrounded Odessa. According to another despatch from
German sources, the German troops have completely cut off the line
of communication betweon Leningrad and Moscow and the number of
Russian troops captured near Narva reportedly is about 10,000. Ac-
cording to another report, tho German troops on August 23 captured
Krasnogvardeisk and are already heading toward Leningrad. According
to a DNB despatch, tho German troops also have captured Cherkasi,
180 kilometers southeast of Kiev, and Ochakov on the shore of tho
Black Sea.
According to a despatch from Washington, Senator
Byrd (?) is severely criticizing America's national defense, stating
that no tank nr anti-aircraft gun has yet been sent to Great Britain.
Senator Byrd also gavo figures showing the inefficiency of America's
production power.
According to a despatch from Hyde Park, President
Roosevelt issued an order for the soizure of the Federal Shipbuilding
and Drydock Company in New Jorsey and the placing of the said firm
under government management. This is the second time the government
has taken such action.
Something about the Iran government's rejection of
the British demand for the expulsion of the Germans within Iran.
Comment on current events:
Topic "England's new scheme to spread the war into
Western Asia": Having succeeded in luring America and Chungking into
forming a cordon against Japan in East Asia, England is now attempt-
ing to lure Sovict Russia into spreading the European war into
Western Asia. She together with Soviet Russia is coercing Iran to
expel the Germans within Iran from Iran, but Iran thus far has re-
jected this demand. Her aim obviously is to open a way to send aid

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
Page#3
to Soviet Russia and, at the same time, to drive away German in-
fluence from the near East. Thus Iran, which wants to remain neutral,
is now being threatened by two great powers and Japan cannot help
but have great concern in accordance with her principle to protect
the races of Asia. In other words, England and America have now
come to reveal their imperialistic policy by this. That is, they
are aiming to dominate the world, which Japan cannot ignore. To
accomplish this aim, England, supported by America, is trying to
make the races of East Asia fight agninst each other. However,
Japan is striving hard to prevent this and thus has concluded the
joint defense agreement with Fronch Indo-China. (This talk lasted
for about ten minutes but his been digested due to the atmospheric
interruptions at intervals.)
Program for tomorrow.
Theme song.
## #

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/25/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Japanese music
News:
According to a dispatch from London, Prenier Churchill
on the night of August 24 made his first broadcast in regard to
Britain's foreign policy since his conference with President
Roosevelt. In regard to the crusade, which Japan is carrying
on in China, Premier Churchill stated that Japan, following the
examples of Hitler and Mussolini, has been aggressing the five
hundred million people of China for the past five years and that
the Japanese troops with their enormous arms are destroying and
..... as they please, without even considering Britain's
aggression of China and explcitation of India, Burma and Lalay.
He also stated the Japanese, stretching their hands into South-
eastern Asia, is now threatening Thailand, in spite of the fact
England, herself, is strengtheninc her encirclement cf Thailand.
In view of the fact that Japan's aim in carrying on the China
incident, together with the Chinese Central Governent, is to
wipe away England's exploitation in East Asia and bring about
lasting peace between Japak and China, the newspapers of Tokyo
on August 25 corunented upon this brcadcast and revealed the ne-
tional indignation against Churchill's statement.
In his first broadcast since his conference with President
Roosevelt, Prerier Churchill deliberately fabricated the situa-
tion in East Asia and defaned Japan, and how untrue his state-
ment is can be seen by the following facts: That the China in-
cident broke out two years before the uropean war. Hence,
Churchill's statement that the Japanese troops are following
the examples of Hitler and lussolini is an irresponsible utter-
ance completely ignoring the tie. Furthermore, Preiier Church-
ill stated that Japan is ageressin: and trampling over the five
hundred million people of China, but this, took is entirely
groundless, for the statenent ignores the fact that a construc-
tive progress is being made in China under the joint cooperation
of Japan and China. Loreover, Prenier Churchill stated that
Japan has taken eway French Indo-China from Trance and is now
threatening Thailand, Singapere and the connection between Eng-
land and Australia as vell as the Philippines, which is under
the protection of terica, but it is a definite fact, as was ex-
plained by the Vichy Government, that the landing of the Japa-
nese troops in French Tndo-China wes undertaken through a peace-
ful and friendly diploratic negotiation, The statenent that
Japan is threatening Thailand as vell as other places is entire-
ly to the contrary, for England is the one vho is threatening
Japan fron the south.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
Page if2
According to a dispatch from London, wellinformed English
circles believe that England is hopingthat America will take a
definite step toward the correction of Arerica's relation with
Japan. This fact was revealed in the broadcast made by Premier
Churchill and is being regarded in America as England's anifes-
tation of her intention to leave the settlenent of the Far East-
ern problems in the hands of America and to abide by Alerica's
action.
According to a dispatch fron Vashington, American
authorities are rerraining from raking any corment in regard to
this broadcast. liowever, vell-informed circles of ashington
are pointing to the British astitude of expressing her willing-
ness to cooperate vith merica and hoping that America will
strive to settle her problems vith Japan peacefully, on the other
lhand.
Achievenents of the Japanase troops operating in Shimbu
region of lupeh Province--318 enemy killed, 22l captured, and
numerous rifles, .uns and amunition taken.
Japanese military air force today raided Sian in Shensi
Province.
Hinister of Favy Cikawe this mornins called on the Emperor
and reported various iportant matters to the Enperor.
The Yalu River Da:, the largest to be constructed in Japan, has
finally been corpleted and has been inaugurated today.
Four
years have been spent in the construction ef this dam. Elec-
tricity supplied to :hachoukuo, toc. This reportedly is the
second largest dan in the vorld.
According to a dispatch frc. a reliable source, England
will send an ultimatw. to Uran so etime today.
According to a report from Ankara received in Hungary,
Russia reportedly has shifted 30 of her 40 divisicns, which
were concentrated along the Turkish border, to Iran.
According to a dispatch fro. Tehran, the I.an Broadcasting
Station on the night of August 23 explained Iran's neutrality,
stating that Iran vill maintain her neutrality and defend her-
self against any outside enery.
According to a dispatch Iron Kabul, Hohaned Basil (?),
Emperor of Arghanistan, on August 23, Afghanistan's Independence
Day, stated that fghanistan is deternined to protect its inde-
pendence and interests and that the nation is prepared to sacri-
fice anything for the preservaticn of its independence.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
According to a comnunique issued by the Gernan High Command
on August 24, the German air force bombed the railroads leading
into Leningrad fror. the south and southeast, besides bombing the
Russian fortifications east of Narva. Furthermore, the Gernan
air force on August 23 shot down 53 Russian planes and destroyed
48 other Russian planes that were on the ground. In the central
region, the Gernan air force on August 23 bombed Russian position
and cormunication lines. In the Ukrainian region, the Gerran
troops captred 2,l00 Russians, while the German air force hombed
and destroyed an 8,ooo ton kussian transport east of Odessa.
According tc a dispatdh from Berlin, the Gernan troops are
drawing closer to Leningrad from the directions of Narva and
Movgorod, while the Finnish troops, who sre heading for Lingrad
from the north, have advanced as far as Ligovo.
According to a UP dispatch fron London, the uasians re-
portedly have destroyed the electricity dam on the Dnepr River.
According to a coraunique issued by the German High Cormand
the number of British planes that Germany has destroyed during
the one month period starting fro: July 22 and ending on Aug.
23 is 1,O44. 0f these, 916 were shot down, while 128 were shot
down by the German navy. On the other hand, Germany lost only
127 planes during the same one month period.
According to a dispatch fron Berlin, the Cerman High Cormand
announced that the Gernan navy destroy d 21 British ships, total-
ing 122,000 tons, that were heading toward Gibraltar from England
together with one destroyem, one repair ship and one patrol boat
besides destroying 25 other British ships, totalling 148,200
tons.
According to a dispatch from Lisbon, the crew-meribers of a
British convoy, composed of 13 ships, stated as follows in re-
gard to the attack by Gerian subnarines: As we approeched off
the coast of Spain on August 21, we were suddenly attacked by
Gernan submarines and planes. The British warships inmediately
fought against them, but nine of the ships suddenly disappeared.
These prcbably were sunk.
According to a dispatch fror. London, the British Adniralty
on August 24 announced the loss of .....
......, a newly con-
structed submarine (Sounden like Union). Submarine probably
was constructed soretime after 1940.
Japanese iusic.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #4
ews of the week: (Fron August 17)
Adoption of the rarine transportation control regula-
tion by the ca binet on August 19.
Adoption of the resources mobilization regulations
by the cabinet on August 22.
Appointnent of an econonic expert in the information
bureau on August 22.
The meeting of the financial leaders held on August 20.
The formatio: of credit me ger union on August 22.
The first meeting of the de arcation cornittee held
at Saigon on August, 21.
The inauguration of the international radio telephone
service between Japan and French Indo-Cina on August 21.
The appointrent of Tsubokami as the first Japan se
Ambassador to Thailand on August 17.
The arrival of mbassador Honda in Yanking on August20.
The granting of rewards to veterans of the current
incident on August 22.
The concurrent appointront of Vice-Adniral Yorio Sawa-
moto, present vice-minister of navy, to the post vacated by
Vice-Admiral Seibi Inamine (?), vho has been transferred to an-
other irportant post.
The raid of Chungking by the Japanese naval air face
on August 22 and 23.
The various raids of the Japanese military air force
during the veek.
Talk on "The Creat Ken of Japan" by Kinjiro Ito, an
author: The talk pertained to such ren as Minister of Foreign
Affairs Toyoda, Minister of Var Tojo, inister of Navy Oikawa,
inister of Co.erce and I"dustry Sakonji and Hinister without
Portfolio Suzuki. In regerd to inister of Foreign Affairs
Toyoda, Ito stated that he has a high regard for the tripartite
alliance and is a cool-headed and self-coposed person. In re-
gard to ilinister of Var Tojo, Ito stated that he is a man of
action and courage. In regard to Minister of Havy Oikawa, Ito
stated that he is a man who is always prepared to neet any emer-

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #5
gency and will lead.the destiny of Japan in the event of a crisis
on the Pacific. In regard to the Minister of Commerce Sakonji,
he said that the man is giving up the greater part of his life
in the service of his country and is hichly patriotic. The same
is true of Suzuki, stated Ito.
Japanese lusic
Tomorrow's program
Theme Song.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
FEDERALL
U. S.
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/26/41
4
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles
ROUTED TO
Comic talk.
News: (Record very poor)
In regard to the broadcast made by Premier Churchill,
the newspapers of Tokyo today voiced strong indignation against it.
The Nichi-Nichi Shimbun, for example, stated that the condition
resulting in the landing of the Japanese troops in French Indo-China
was brought about solely by England and that Premier Churchill should
have considered England's activities in East Asia before making
such a statement. The Yomiuri Shimbun, too, made a similar state-
ment, criticizing Premier Churchill's statement that the landing of
the Japanese troops in French Indo-China has brought about a serious
threat to Singapore, Australia and the Philippines as England's
propaganda attempt to disrupt the peace of East Asia, and urged the
nation not to yield a step to England and America.
At today's Cabinet meeting, Foreign Minister Toyoda
made a report on the current international situation, after which
an exchange of views centering around the report was held.
According to reports reaching Tokyo, the strength of
the British troops which have invaded Iran is reportedly about 6 or
7 divisions, composed of 60,00o troops, and these troops reportedly
are attacking from three sides. The strength of the Russian troops,
attacking from the Caspian and ......., is reportedly about 5 to 6
divisions, composed of 80,0o0 men. In contrast to this, the strength
of the Iran troops reportedly is about 19,O00 men. Hence, it is
believed that they will not be able to check the drive of the British
and Russian troops.
Something about the British troops starting their
operation against Iran without sufficient notice. (Record died off
into noise.
In regard to the Iran problem, the German foreign
office stated that Soviet Russia's act against Iran is a violation
of the treaty signed between Iran and Soviet Russia in 192l and
that England's act against Iran is an outrageous one indicating
that England has no regard for the establishment of peace in Europe.
In regard to England and Russia's action against Iran,
the sentiment of the Italian political circle is that England, by
this criminal act, has started a new war. (Record faded into noise.)
Something about an Italian paper criticizing England

=== Page 288 === (confidence 1.00)
Page #2
and America.
Something about Japanese troops' movement in the
southern part of Shensi Province and the northern part of Hupeh
Province.
Japanese military air force on the afternoon of
August 26 raided Hoken in Shensi Province.
General Hata, Supreme Commander of the Japanese force
in North China, made an inspection tour of the lower estuary of the
Yangtze River, where the peace restoration work of the Japanese
troops is being carried out.
With the return of Ambassador Honda to China, the
strengthening of the Nanking government is expected to be carried
out more constructively. One of the problems that will be tackled
will be the raising of the living standard of the people.
Something about the Japanese troops having taken over
the management of about 60 firms to hclp strengthen the Nanking
government.
Something about England and America's movement in
French Indo-China before the conclusion of the joint defense agree-
ment was uncovered. Seems to be an explanation or propaganda on
how England and America tried to win over French Indo-China by
threat and otherwise into the anti-Japanese group and make her take
part in the encirclement of Japan.
According to a despatch from Canton, the Dutch East
Indies are suffering greatly from England and America's freezing of
Japanese assets. (Record died off into noise.)
According to a DNB despatch, the German troops re-
portedly are making steady progress along all fronts. (Record in-
distinct.)
Something about the French volunteers having departed
for the front to aid Germany in her fight against Soviet Russia.
Japanese music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "The great progress of East Asia": The talk
pertained to the grcat economic progress being made in East Asia
and lasted for about 15 minutes. It is regrettable that the talk
was considerably interrupted by static. However, judging from the

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
fact that the natural resources of French Indo-China, China and
Manchoukuo were discussed, the talk appears to have been propaganda
emphasizing the self-sufficiency of Japan. Toward the end of the
talk, the news commentator stated that French Indo-China can be
considered as actually having joined the yen bloc and that England
and America's freezing of Japanese aasets has resulted in the
strengthening of the mutual prosperity sphere and the establishment
of self-sufficiency within that sphere. In closing, the commentator
explained that these natural resources will be developed by Japan
for the prosperity and welfare of the races of East Asia.
Japanese music.
Tomorrow's program.
Notice of change of freguency from September 1 to
call sign JZK, 15,160 kilocycles and 19.79 meters.
Japanese national anthem.
# # #

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/27/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles
(Recorder's note: Conditions poor on records #1 and #2.)
News:
In regard to the report that American ships have left
America for Vladivostok, the newspapers of Japan voiced the indigna-
tion of the nation for an act wholly ignoring Japan's position and
urged the government to take stern measuros. Also included some-
thing about the Japanese government's issuing a warning to America.
In a press intorview on August 26, President Roosevelt
stated that a military mission is being prepared to be sent to
Chungking and something about shipment of necessary war materials
to Chungking.
Something about the Japanese troops: peration in
Shensi and the Japanese military air force's raid of a certain area.
Something about the inefficiency of the transportation
service on the Burma route and America's effort to reconstruct the
service on this route.
Something about the evacuation of Americans or some-
thing to that effect from a certain region in China.
Something about an European government recognizing
Manchoukuo.
Something about condition in Dutch East Indies as
reported by passengers arriving in Kobe this morning.
Something about the war in Iran.
According to an announcement made by the High Command
of the Iran troops for the first time, Iran troops are checking the
British and Sovict advances.
According to a despatch from Berlin, the German Min-
ister in Iran conferred with the Empcror of Iran and, at the same
time, Iran's Minister to Germany conferred with Foreign Minister
Ribbentrop yesterday.
Since England and Russia's action against Iran is an
obstruction against Germany's attempt to create a new order in
Europe, well-informed circles in Germany believe that German troops
will be sent toward Iran shortly.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
According to a despatch from Berlin, the newspapers
of Germany yesterday commented upon the Iran problem and denounced
England and Soviet Russia's scheme to spread the war and their
violation of neutrality.
According to a despatch from Ankara, the Turkish
government has held an emergency meeting, in view of the acute sit-
uation arising from England and Russia's attack on Iran.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command on August 26, the German troops captured Dnepropetrovosk on
August 25 and captured 83,600 Russians, 465 rifles and 199 tanks.
Hence, the Russians have lost their last stand on the west bank of
the Dnieper River. According to a DNB despatch, the German troops
reportedly have captured Luga, 16o kilometers south of Leningrad.
Italian troops reportedly cooperated in the capture of Dnepropetrovsk.
In the capture of Luga, the German troops reportedly captured 2 300
prisoners and destroyed or captured 54 tanks and 46 guns. According
to a DNB despatch, five Russian ships, including one warship and one
tanker, were destroyed by German mines in the Gulf of Finland on
August 25. In regard to the Finnish troops, the same despatch said
that they recently captured 3,500 Russians, 198 guns and many ma-
chine guns and rifles and destroyed 47 Russian planes.
According to another communique issued by the German
High Command on August 26, the German air force on August 25 raided
the military establishments on the east coast of England and also
sank a 6,O00-ton British ship in St. George's Channel. On the other
hand, German bombers raided Tobruk from August 25 to August 26 and
caused considerable damage to harbor facilities, besides damaging
a large British ship.
According to a despatch from London, the British Ad-
miralty admitted the attack on British convoys by Germans and the
destruction of 16,00o tons of ships. The convoys reportedly put
into port at Lisbon on August 25.
According to the announcement of the Norwegian Ad-
miralty in London, the British destroyer Bath, 1,O60 tons, has boen
sunk by the Germans. The said destroyer was formerly an American
destroyer recently turned over to Britain by America.
According to a despatch from Canberra, Australia, the
Premier of Australia suggested the formation of a United Front Cabi-
net, but tho Labor Party rejected this suggestion on August 26 and
requested the resignation of the present cabinet.
According to a despatch from Berlin, the German

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
government on August 26 issued an order for the closing up of all
Mexican consulates within Germany in retaliation against the measure
taken by Mexico. Mexico recently issued an order demanding the
closing up of German consulates within Mexico by the first of
September.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Premier Churchill's Broadcast": The talk
lasted for about io minutes and was considerably interrupted by
static. The commentator, in this talk, tried to tear asunder
Premier Churchill's allegations of Japanese aggression and destruction
in China. He termed Premier Churchill's broadcast as nothing other
than the manifestation of the ambition of the Anglo-Saxon race to
dominate the world and explained that England had compelled Japan
to move into French Indo-China to protect the peace of East Asia and
consequently asserted that this cannot be considered as a threat
against Singapore, Australia, and thc Philippines. For the real
definition of aggression, he said the world should look upon England's
move against Syria and her recont move against Iran, both of which
are a direct violation of the international law pertaining to neu-
tral nations.
Japanese music.
Domestic news:
Nothing worthy of interest.
(Rest of program was not recorded by FCc due to shortage
of records.)
#￥#

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JLU4 Program
Date 8/28/41
Frequency 17,795 Kilocycles.
Comic talk.
Hawaiian music.
News:
In regard to the protest lodged by Japan with America
and Soviet Russia in regard to the passing of Anerican ships with
aid to Russia through Japanese waters, the newspapers of Tokyo com-
mented upon this and urged America's reconsideration, besides criti-
cizing her insincerity. The Nichi-Nichi Shimbun, for example,
stated that Amcrica's hostile attitude toward Japan has become very
great, of late, and one of these signs is her shipment of gasoline
to Soviet Russia. To accomplish this, she does not care even if she
destroys the lifeline of Japan. In addition to this, the Nichi-Nichi
Shimbun stated, she is carrying out a policy which cannot be left
unheeded by Japan against French Indo-China, Thailand and other
small nations of the south. Thus, the Nichi-Nichi Shimbun explained,
the shipment of gasoline to Soviet Russia is not an ordinary prob.
lem. In other words, it is an important problem affecting the whole
policy of Japan, claimed the Nichi-Nichi Shimbun, and this is the
reason why Japan cannot overlook any action executed close to her
and ignoring her position. On the other hand, the Hochi Shimbun
claimed it only proper for Japan to have lodged such a protest.
According to a despatch from Washington, our Ambassa-
dor to America Nomura called on Secretary of State Huli on the af-
ternoon of August 27 and conferred with him for about 45 minutes.
Both Secretary of State Hull and Ambassador Nomura did not reveal
the matter discussed at this conference. Prior to this, Soviet Am-
bassador Oumansky also called on Secretary Hull and discussed some
important problem.
The Crown Prince today returned to Tokyo from the
Imperial Palace at Numazu, where he had been spending his summer.
He, like all the rest of the children of Japan, will attend school
from September 1.
In his talk with the Chinese Ambassador to America
......., President Roosevelt revealed that plans were being
made to send a military mission to Chungking. It is a fact that
Japan cannot remain unconcerned about America's strengthening her
aid to Chungking; in an cditorial in regard to this, the Yomiuri
Shimbun today criticized America's intervention into the affairs of
Chungking as follows: To help Chungking fight against Japan, America,
to date, has sent an economic mission, military advisors and tre-
mendous war aids. Now she has decided to send a military mission.

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
Although Japan, considering her strength, is not afraid of how much
aid America may send to Chungking, what she must guard against is
America's double-dealing diplomatic policy. Although America is
aiding Soviet Russia, her real purpose is not that, but to win over
Soviet Russia and make her cooperate with the ABCD bloc of the south
in the encirclement of Japan. In this respect, the sending of a
military mission to Chungking too, is, of course, one of America's
Pacific policics. We, realizing the real motive of America, should
strengthen our determination all the more.
News of the Japanese troops' operations in China, (Re
cord not clear. Names of places indistinct.)
The Japanese military air force, divided into two
squadrons, raided Hosho and Hokei in Western Shensi, respectively.
According to a despatch from Hanoi, Governor-General
and Mrs. De Coux left Hanoi for a certain city in Cambodia today
to attend some kind of ceremony. However, yesterday, August 27,
Governor-General De Coux, accompanied by several other high-ranking
officials, attended the luncheon sponsored by General Sumita.
According to a despatch from Saigon, the King of
Cambodia issued the following proclamation in regard to the landing
of Japanese troops in French Indo-China to the people today: The
Japanese troops have been sent here to remove the threat of the
third powers against French Indo-China. Consequently, by relying
upon the Japanese troops, peace can be maintained and in this sense
we should be loyal to the Japanese troops.
According to a despatch from Saigon, the Japanese
Demarcation Delegation, composed of Cmdr. Hanazawa, Maj. Takagi and
Engineer Umemoto, yesterday morning conferred with the French Indo-
Chinese delegation and discussed various important problems in re-
gard to the demarcation of the border line between French Indo-China
and Thailand. They are cxpected to hold a similar conference with
representatives of Thailand today, but since the regions along the
border are flooded at this time the actual demarcation of the border
line will probably take place sometime in November.
According to a despatch from Shanghai, Australia re-
portedly is sending large numbers of troops toward Malaya, Burma
and India, in conformity with the orders of England. According to
a despatch from Singapore, Lt. Gen. Starking (phonetic), Chief of
Staff of the Australian force, arrived in Singapore on August 27
together with his staff officers and discussed important problems
pertaining to the joint action of Australian and British troops with
Gen. Pattan, Commander-in-Chief of the British Far Eastern force.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
In regard to the condition in Thailand, Takeo
Miyamura, who had resided in Thailand for a long time, stated as
follows: The coercion of England, America and Chungking against
Thailand has become very strong of late. As long as Premier........,
a strong pro-Japanese, Minister of Homc Defense.......... and Min-
ister of Finance......... are in power, it cannot be thought that
Thailand will incline toward England and America, but it will be
hard for Thailand to remove the economic and military coercion ex-
ecuted from all sides by England and America. The activities of
England, who holds the economic power of Thailand, hevo become very
obstinate of late. We sincerely hopc that Thailand will not be
blinded by the direct advantages before her eyes but will awaken to
the movement of liberating the races of East Asia and strive for
the establishment of Thailand for tho Thailanders to the very end.
According to a despatch from Berlin, the Soviet air
force on August 27 raided the various important positions within
Iran from the north and the Soviet Army appears to have advanced
40 kilometers into the territory of Iran. However, in spite of her
small force, Iran appears to be putting up a strong resistance.
According to a desp&tch from Washington, it appears
that Iran's Minister to America...........visited the Department
of State many times and discussed various matters prior to the
British and Russian troops' invasion of Iran. According to well-
informed sources, Iran's Minister to America had sought for America's
support in regard to Iran's neutrality in these discussions, but
America made no attempt to take action in spite of the fact that
she was well aware of England and Russia's move.
According to a despatch from Berlin, the Turkish Am-
bassador to Germany ........... yestorday conferred with Hitler and
appeared to have cmphasized the fact that Turkey will remain strictly
neutral and to have sought for Germany's understanding. Furthermore,
German authorities are of the belief that even if Russia and England
accomplish their aim in Iran, it will have no effect upon the war
situation.
According to a despatch from Ankara, Iran's Foreign
Minister...........yesterday invited British Minister Barrett (phon-
etic) and informed him that Iran will expel all the Germans within
Iran within one week. If this is true, it means that Iran is suing
for peace. Howover, since the primary aim of England and Russia is
not that, but to open a way for the transportation of aid to Russia
and obtain possession of the oil wells of Iran, the expulsion of the
Germans will not solve the issue and England and Russia's military
action will not be stopped.
According to a despatch from Ankara relayed from

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
America, the Iranian Embassy in Turkey announced the resignation
of the entire Iranian Cabinet and stated that a statement explaining
the reason why Iran has stood up against England and Russia will prob-
ably be announced as soon as a new premier is appointed. The report
of the resignation of the Iranian Cabinet has only been received
from an American source and has not yet been acknowledged by neu-
tral sources.
According to a despatch from New York, a UP despatch
from Vichy roported that England has sent an ultimatum demanding
French Somaliland to join the DeGaullists with a threat that the
blockade will be contined if she failed to do so. In reply to
this, the French Somaliland government reportedly made clear her
neutrality and desire of not wantin to be involved in the war.
According to reports reaching Rome, British warships
appeared off Valoncia and carried out an intimidatory demonstration
against Spain on August 26. Howevor, the British warships immedi-
ately disappeared into the horizon as soon as Spanish submarines
made their appearance. Newspapers of Valencia are regarding this
as an intimidation against Spain.
According to a DNB despatch, the German troops finally
reached the railroad connecting Leningrad with Moscow on August 27.
According to a communique issued by the German High Command, the
German air force sank 4 Russian transports, totalling 90o0 tons, in
the Gulf of Finland, besides damaging one warship and 10 other
transports. According to reports from Berlin and Budapest, the
allied troops of the Axis powers on August 27 succeeded in crossing
the lower estuary of the Dnieper River in the face of enemy fire
and captured Zaporozhe.
Japanese music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Japanese troops' operation against the Communis
Army in North China": The talk lasted for about 1ǒ minutes and, in
it, it was mentioned that the largest concentration of Japanese
troops was being used in this operation against the Communist Army
throughout the provinces of North China as far north as Manchoukuo.
This talk seemed to be more propaganda than a statement of fact, for
the Japanese troops were supposed to have had North China under con-
trol. Consequently, the brisk activities of the Communist troops in
this region can be taken as indication that large numbers of Japanese
troops have been withdrawn from this region and thrown toward the
south--that is, into French Indo-China.
Japanese music and tomorrow's program.
Japanese national anthem.
###

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/30/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles
Japanese usic
Italian music, Santa Lucia.
News:
The Japanese Governtent yesterday ennounced the Prenier
Konoye message to President Roosevelt was handed to the latter by
Anbassador Nonure on ugust 2. The nessage expressed Japan's
opinicn in regard to the problems of the Pacific and what Japan
is aiming for in this period of world strife is the acconplish-
ment of the China incident and the creation of on Hast Asia Mutual
Prosperity Sphere. In other vords, it is noedless to mention that
her aim is the establishment of lastin eace in the Pacific.
However, with the outbreak of the Russo-German var, the delicate
relations between Japan and Anerica has becone very acute. Mence,
this message expressing Japan's opinion has been snet to America,
In his broadeast of August 24, Prerier Churchill made clear
England's attitude toward Japan and England and merica's intention.
In reply to this, Director Shide of the third section of the in-
fornation bureau rade a broadcast, entitled ".. reply to Premier
Churchill's broadcast", on August 29 through the Central Broad-
casting Station. In his talk, he stated the Premier Churchill's
breadcast is a manifestation of t e selfish contentions of England
and America made as though they vere morally justifiable and aimed
at the neutral and defeated nations to make them take part in the
obstructicn of the creation of a new worle crder that is being
carried out by the ris Povers and it, at the same time, nisin-
terprets Japan's southvard move as a threat against English and
Alerican interests. In regard to aid, vhich ngland and A.erica
are civing to China in this crusade, vich Japan is rigiting to
establish lasting peace, he declared that England and Aierica's
aid is only needlessly proloncin the unfortunate situation and
is not in egreenent with the world peace contention expressed by
Premier Churchill. In regard to Premier Konoye's nessage to Presi-
dent Roosevelt, he stated that in view of the ever changing world
situation, Konoye's ressage to President Roosevelt has a special
sig ificaice and that although he does not mow hovw the future re-
lations between Japan and Aerica will develop, he believed that
nation hes a strong cetermination to cope vith whatever situation
may arise.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 2
According to a dispatch from .ashington, President Roosevelt,
in an interview with newspaper reporters yestcrday, remained non-
committal in regard to the contents of the Japanese-American neg-
otiations, although he was incessently questioned by the reporters.
In regard to the question as to whether he intended to give a fire-
side chat on September 1, vhich is Labor Day and the second anni-
versary of the uropean war, in regard to the war, President Roose-
velt only replied that he will.
Kanane Wakatsuki, who had been serving as envoy extraordin-
ary and Minister Plenipotentiary under Anbassador Homura, today
arrived in Yokohama aboard the Ichiyo Maru (?). In regard to the
Japanese-American problems, Vakatsuki stated that he can say noth-
ing until he had reported to the foreign office. However, in re-
gard to the condition in America, he sta ed, "Ambassador Tomura
i. in very good health and is very popular with the A ericans.
It is a fact that Japanese irporters have siffered a severe blow
by America's ect of freezing Japanese assets, but ..........
However, the stoppin" of silk inports to Anerica, too, has dealt
a severe blow upon the Anericans and has caused about 200,0o0 to
lose their jobs. As might be expected in a frce country, anti-
war movenents are being car ied en everywhere in ierica. Gener-
ally speaking, the people of  erica are hoping for peace."
Ever sinee his return to Hanking, Aibassador Honda has been
conferring with high ranking Chinese ofricials in recard to the
matter of establishing, a joint Japanese-Chinese cormittee tc aid
in the administration or econonic, political, cultural and other
affairs. Preparations for the formation oi the said cornittee re-
portcdly have been completed.
The Japane se nilitary air force today raided Chungking in
spite of the bad weather.
Sonething about the Japanese troops' activities in lorth
China (Record indistinct)
Hew method for the manufacture of easoline discovered by a
r. Otuska (?) of Hokkaido. Gasoline manufacturud fron sone kind
of gas. To be co.mercialized shortly.
According to a dispatdh from Banykck received by the Michi-
Nichi Shimbun, the derand for Japanese goods in the South Seas
region has inereased since the freezing of Japanese assets and
has increased the volu e of busincss in Bangkok. (Record indis-
tinct.)

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
Page i/3
According to a dispatch fron Rome, Lussolini and Hitler
jointly inspected the northern end southern war fronts from Aug.
25 to 27 and, at the same time, held important discussions at the
Gerianmilitary headquarters. the discussions were also attended
by German Foreign Minister Ribbentrop and Italian Ambassador to
Germany......... Various political, econonic and military matters
reportedly were discussed.
According to a coimunique issued by the German High Cormand
on August 29, the Geran troops reportedly have captured Harve and
Marbich Bay (?). At the same tire, the Germans reportedly ce -
tured the naval base there, together with 19 ships. Besides, the
German air force sank three Russian ships, totaliing 13,C00 tons,
in the Gulf of Finland.
According to an announcement by the Russian infornation
bureau on Au ust 29, over 500 Gernan planes have been shot down
during the one week starting from August 2l and ending on aug.
27, while Russia cnly lost 26 plenes.
Acccrding to reportg reaching Hanoi fron the Dutch East
Indies, Celebes Island is suffering a severe economic disruption
due to the freezin of Japanese assets. Disturbances reportedly
have broken out (Record indistinct.)
President Roosevelt resterday Hade public the appointment
of Hollaran as leader of the American ermissaries to Moscow.
Outside of Hollaran (Phonetic), the others are not known yet.
Corment On Current Events:
Topic "The developtent of the China Incident into one
of world signiricance": This talk lasted about ten minutes, but
was considerably interrupted by static. The latter hald, especi-
ally, was bad. The cor:crtator hentioned that the outbreak of
the European var in September of 1939 had no direct effect upon
the China Ineident, but came to affect the China Incident greatly
with the outbreak of war between Gernany and Russian. It result-
ed in the stopping of Russian aid to Chungking, but broucht about
active aid fron ngland and America. Hence, Japane se Troops began
fighting against American made war weapons and troops advised by
Americans. To make this aid more ppwerful, the corientator stated,
England and merica executed the freezing of Japanese assets and
the formation of the ABCD cordon: However, to cope with this situ-
ation, the conrentator explained, Japan is strengthening her wer
preparations at home, not for the purpose of fighting, but to pre-
serve peace.
Program for the coming veek.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
Page i4
Notification of change of frequency.
Children of Hawaii, how are you? This is your news hour
from Toiyo. (Record Indistinct) The news pertained to the heroic
services of two nilitary pigeons and an awaiian lad, naned Hiro-
nala, joining the Jananese wrestling association to learn the Japa-
nese style of wrestling. In regard to the two military pigeons,
they were released by Japanese detachents, whic h had been cut off
from their main forces by the Chinese trcops, In one case, the
pidgeon, after being released, was fired at and shot by the enemy.
However, the pidgeon flew to its destination vith the inportant
message end fell dead, thus saving the entire detachient from an-
nihilation. In the other case, the pigeon was attacked by the
wild birds and painfully injured. Hevertueless, it flew to its
destinaticn and accomplished its mission. In regard to the
Hawaiian bcrn Japanese named Hironaka, he has joined a certain
Wrestling tean of the Japan Vrestling Federation and is being re-
garded as a future grend charpion.
Japanese Music.
Theme Song

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JLU4 Program
Date 8/31/41
Frequency 17795 Kilocycles.
Radio drame. "A Boy is Born"
(Recorder's note: Ceased reccrding at O724 as this appears
to be a play and very few records left.)

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/1/41
Frequency 15160 Kilocycles
News:
That a discussion between Japan and America has been
started in regard to the Pacific probles is as exactly as was
announced by our information bureau on August 29. In regard to
the attitude of the nation against this, they are maintaining an
extremely clam and unperturbed attitude. Originally speaking,
Japan and America are not opposing each other of their own accord,
but has been compelled to do so because of their conflicting in-
terests in East Asia. In considering this delicate situation, what
should be of special interest is evil scheme of England, who is
trying to better her position by bringing about a clash between
Jepan and America, and the other powers, Consequently, in carry-
ing on the negotiation with Anerica, our country should guard
against the defanation and false propaganda or the hostile third
powers and against taking any hasty action. It is only proper for
Japan, who loves world peace, to nake every peaceful effort to
prevent any unnecessary friction motivated by the evil scheme and
misunderstandinf of the third powers and to devise diplonatic
lieasures for the restoration of a nornal condition between Japan
and America. However, in as much as our diplomatic policy, as
was explained in the imperial decree at the time of the conclusion
of the tripartite alliance, pivots on the tripartite alliance and
our fundariental policy for the establishment of an East Asia u-
tual prosperity sphere and the acconplishment of the China Inci-
dent is unchangeable, it is needless to mention that anything that
runs counter to the spirit of the tripartite alliance and that
changes, even slightly, the aim of the establishrent of a mutual
prosperity sphere and the settle:ent cf the China Incident is not
permissible. Hence, it is believed that diplonatic measures that
will make this spirit more effective will be taken. Through the
exchange of nessages between President Roosevelt end Premier Ko-
moye, our government has finally brought to light the diplcmatic
negotiation between Jepan and Aierica and will probably take a
more concrete Measure with the return of Minister Wakatsuki, who
has resided in America for 15 years. Since tho success of this
negotiation is an extremely inportant one, the nation is calmly
vatching its developments.
Today, September 1, is the 18th anmivorsary of the great
earthquake of Tokyo as vell as the fourth anniversary of the es-
tablishment of national service day (The first day of each month
was set aside as national service day four years ago). A minute
of silence was observed at neon in corriemoration of those who
died in the earthquake and to strengthen the determination of the
nation to serve their country.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
Page /2
News of the crown Prince's enrollment in the Peers' School
today.
The Autunn festival of the Yasukuni Shrine will be held from
September 16 to 21.
The Navy Ministry today, announced the transfer of Vice-Ad-
miral Seiki Ito, who held an important post at sea, to the gener-
al starf office. Besides, the appointment of Capt. Nakado, who
held an inportant post in French Indo-China, as chief of a certain
section of the general staff ofrice was also announced. Capt.
Horiuchi has been naned to succeed him in French Indo-China. Fur-
thermore, Cmdr. Naooki Hazema, chief of the press relations bureau
of the Japanese fleet in Central China, has been essigned to duty
at Yokosuke naval base.
Keiji Tsubokani, Who has been naned Japanese Aibassador
to Thailand, left Haneda air field today for Thailand by way of
IHanoi.
Lt. Gen. Sumita, Japan's representative in French Indo-China,
today arrived by plane in Fukuoda and imediately left for Tokyo.
To strengthen the trade re lations between J pan and anchou-
kuo, the Planning Board has decided to hold a discussion on trade
coordination fron September 24.
The Linistry or Public Xealth (osei-sho) today decided to
hold the Leiji Jingu athletic mcet from September 22 to Oct. 1.
The first sports event will be the swirming meet, which will be
held on Septmber 22 and 23.
The Japanesenaval and military air forces raided Chungking
the past two days and caused considerable danage to the government
and military establishmenus of the Chinese.
The second anniversary of the establishnent of the Irner
Rongolian Government vas observed today.
According to a dispatch from Ankara yesterday, Soviet troops
reportedly are continuing their activities in spite of the arris-
tice concluded on August 28 and are heading toward Tehran. Since
there had been no understanding in regard to the movement between
England and Soviet Ru sia, it is believed that this will bring a-
bout a split in the relations betveen the two countries. Judging
fron the reports received, the terrs of the armistice seer. to be,
as follows: (1) Iran shali guarantee the trensportation of mater-
ial aid to Soviet Russia. (2) Iran shell withdraw her troops from
the regions occupied by the British and Russian troops within the
specified period. (3) Iran shall expel all the Germans within

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3
Iran from Iran. Besides these, four other terrs reportedly com-
prise the armistice. In spite of this armistice, the Russian air
force reportedly bombed a certain Iranian city and caused consider-
able casualties among the civilian population, thus increasing the
indignation of the Iranians. And to prevent the occurrence of. any
disturbance within Tehran, martial law reportedly has been enacted,
and an Afghanistan (?) official reportedly has been arrested on
the ground of instigating anti-British and anti-Soviet sentiments.
According to an AP dispatch fron Helsinki, England reported-
ly is negotiating for a separate peace with Finland. However, the
Finnish Governent yesterday denied this report as false.
According to a DNB dispatch, the Ger:an troops along the
central sector destroyed 30 Russian tanks and captured 2,170 Russ-
ians, besides numerous arns and armunition. Along the north sec-
tor, the German troops r epcrtedly destroyed 3 Russian gun-boats,
1 speed boat and 2 merchant ships, while the Gerian air force des-
troyed 100 Russian planes and 2 gun-boats, besides destroying 43
other Russian planes along the central sector.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the Finnish troops re-
portedly have repossessed all of the former Finnish territory and
have even crossed the old Finnish-Russian border at some places.
In connection with the Finnish troops' capture of Vipuri on Aug.
31, Hitler sent a message of congratulation to the president of
Finland.
News of the past veek:
Hevs of Churchill's broadcast defaming Japan.
Iews of Kch Ishii's announcenent of August 29 refut-
ing Churchill's charges.
Hews of Premier onoye's message to President Joose-
velt.
Tews of the cabinet's adoption of measures for the
promotion of increased production on August 29.
News of the birth of an organization for the reorgani-
zation or the nanner of living of the nation.
News of the publication and distribution of national
defense (?) posters by the Fational Support Society.
News of the movement for the betterent of the health
of women started by the inistry cf Public Health.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.97)
Page i#4
News of the adoption of motion picture censorship measures
by the government. Heasures also pertain to the production of
motion pictures -- this is, the number of pictures to be produced
in one month.
News of the Japanese troops' activities in China.
News of the rewarding of veterans of the current encident
by the Imperor.
Japanese Music.
Talk on the impression received on calling at the homes of
soldiers vho had died at the front by Eiji Makino, editor of
Kodern Japan: The spuaker centered his talk on the widow of a
soldier, who was killed in the Russo-Japan war. Hentioned how
she felt when she lost her husband. Expressed a very patrictic
sentiment. Wonan today is 57 (?) years old. Ain of this talk
obviously is to arouse the patriotic sentiment of the overseas
Japanese residents. Hentioned the enlist.ent of her son, who was
born inmediately after her husband's death, into the navy to avenge
the death of his father. Hentioned how he served in the navy for
twenty years and was honorably discharged and how he is living
today with his aged nother.
Japanese usic
Tonorrow's Progren
Jenanese national anthem
if in 

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 9/2/41
Frequency 15160 Kilocycles
Japanese Music
News:
Capt. Habuchi of the Imperial Military Headquarters
last night made a broadcast, entitled "The lental Attitude of
the Nation in This Emergency", through JOAK and impressed the
nation with his fiery talk. In it, he urged the nation to co-
operate in the strengthening of the national defense and mention-
ed the collaboration of England and America with the other powers
as a serious threat against Japan. He stressed that the nation
should be prepared to enter into a protracted war in of order to
overcome this threat and explained the necessity of establishing
the great ast Asia Mutual Prosperity Sphere. He boasted of the
great progress made by Japan during the past four years and the
great strength of Japan and explained that all the policies of
Japan were based on peaceful notives. Consequently, he concluded
Japan will, if necessary and depending on the moves of the other
powers, take arned action to settle any situation.
The Navy Ministry today made public the list of the veterans
of this current incident to be rewarded by the govern.ent.
In regard to the rutor that Chiang will shift his seat of
Governient into the interior, the Asahi Shimbun, in an editorial
today, stated that no matter where the seat of governnent may be
shifted, the Japanese air force vill harass the Chinese as long
as they do not awaken to the reality and that America's aid to
Chungking will be or no use in as much as the Burma route is be-
ing repeatedly bonbed hy the Japanese air force.
In regard to the achievement of the Japanese troops on Hai-
nan Island, the Jaxnese Migh Cormand yesterday issued the follow-
ing conmunique: Losses of Chinese--1,727 killed, 120 captured
and many arms and anmmunitions.
At the regular cabinet's meeting, held this :orning at the
premier's residence, a report of the condition in the Tohoku
Districts was given by Minister of Agriculture Hiroyasu Ino, who
had recently returned from his inspection tour or the districts.
Reports were also made by Foreign Hinister Toyoda and Hinister of
Cormerce Sakonji. Following the cabinet's meeting, a meeting of
the East Asia afi airs corrittee was held to discuss the problems
of East Asia.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
A mecting of the adninistrative officials of the Japan
Rising Asia Federation was held today, as which time the presi-
dent and vice president revealed the matters discussed with Pre-
mier Konoye yesterday. The natters discussed were the strength-
ening of the new order policy in Southern sia, the conplete des-
truction of pro-Chiang activities and the execution of Japan's
right of self-defense in her neighboring waters.
A meeting of the members of the House of Representatives
was held today to organize a national support representatives'
federation. 326 representatives attended the meeting.
The Japanese eibassy in Fanking today started carrying out
its policy to strengthen the lanking Government and the collabora-
tion between lanking and Japan.
Preparations for the sending of Japanese exhibits to Hanoi
aboard the Septeaber 15 liner have been completed by the Society
for the Promotion of International Culture. An exhibition of
Japanese exhibits is scheduled to be held from Occtber 15 for ten
days at Hanoi, which will be followed by another exhibition of
Japan se exhibits at Saigon for ten days starting from November
25.
According to a dispatch fron Hanila, Presid ent Roosevelt
has promised to dispatch tankers to supply gasoline to the Ameri-
cans in East Asia. However, the prinary aim of this action is
to alleviate the shortage of British tankers and to facilitate
the distribution of casoline fran Dutch East Indies. Further-
more, the cormandant of the American fleet (?) in Hinila report-
edly has been granted the power to draw up a contract with the
oil producers of the Dutch East Indies.
According to a dispatch fran Bangkok, British defense at
Singapore lately has been considerably strengthened with troops
from Gibraltar and Halta and even its anti-aircraft defense has
been greatly strengthened.
According to a dispatch fron Hyde park, President Roosevelt
yesterday made a radic broadcast at 6 a.n. in which he stated
that America will fight to the last for the destruction of Hiter-
ism and the Germany arny and will rake every effort toward the
accomplishment of that aim. In this brcadcast, he again did not
mention as to whether America vill enter the var or nct, but em-
phasized the destruction of Hitlerism nore tlan ever before.
Furthernore, he did not touch upon Japan and the Japanese-Ameri-
can relations either. It is believed that the reason that Presi-
dent Roosevelt failed to co:mont on the Japanese-American prob-
lems was his fear that he might bring about an ill effect upon
the Japanese American discussions

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
Page /3
According to a dispatch fron Berlin, a spokesman of the
Gernan foreign office in an interview withnewspaper reporters
yesterday talked in regard to the Japanese-American relations and
the triparitit alliance and stated, as fdlows: "Japan's diplomatic
policy is clear, and although various doubtful problens have arisen
in connection with the Japanese-Aierican problems, there is no
reason to Moubt Japan's position in as much as her policy is based
on the tripartite alliance. Furthermore, it is the privilege of
Japan to do as she pleases (?) ".
In comemoration of the second anniversary of the European
war, the German High Cormand did nct make public the achievements
of the Gernany arry during the past year, but only e pressed Ger-
many's determination to carry on the war until a decisiwe victory
is achieved. On the other hand, Editor Gayda of Journale d'
Italia (?) expressed the determination of the Axis powers to cre-
ate a new order in Europe very strongly in an editorial. In it,
he stated that the ain of the Axis Powers is to bring about the
downfall of the nations that caused the current European wer.
According to a co munique issued by the German High Conmand
the German air force on August 31 raided Russian troopst concen-
trations, air fields enc military establishment along the whole
front and destroyed troops trains at a plece east of Kiev. At
the Dneper River front, the German troops reportedly have shot
down 27 Russian ships since August 26. In regard to the achieve-
ments of the German troons in Estonia, the conriunique stated that
11,730 Russians were captured, besides the capture and destruction
of 293 guns, 91 tanks, 2 armored trains and many arms and armuni-
tion.
According to a dispatch from Tehran, a disagreeuent report-
edly has broken out betveen the representatives of England and
Soviet Russia. According to the report, the Soviet Ambassador
has refused to sign thc armistice. In conjunction with this,
the Soviet troops reportedly have renewed their activities and
have advanced to a point 150 kilometers away from Tehran along
the Bafrush Tehran Highway.
acccrding to the opinion ofthe military experts of Ankara,
Material aid to Soviet Russia is already being transported to
Soviet Russie by vay of Iran.
Corrient on Current Events:
Topic: "The Eurcpean War and the ast Asia Mutual Pros-
perity Sphere": In September of the y ar before last, two years
after the outbreak of the China Incident, the European war broke
out. That is, under the orders of Hitler, the attack against Po-
land was started on Septenber 1 of the year before last and was
followed by England and France's war against Germany on Sept. 3.
However, vhat has been brought about by the China Incident is the
creation of a New Order in East Asia and the establishment of the
Greater East Asia utual Prosperity Sphere. On the other hand,

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #4
the Europena War, which broke out two years after the China In-
cident, is also bringing about the establishnent of a new order
in Europe. The motivating powers of these new orders are Japan
in East Asia and German y and Italy in Europe, and what these three
nations are ai: ing for is the establishnent of a new world peace.
Although the Cnina incident, in which attenpts were nade to local-
ize it, has been protracted and tis European war, vhich was ex-
pected to be settled quickly, is still being carried on after two
years of fighting, these three nations are raking a steady pro-
gress toward the establishnent of a new world peace. However,
the coming of this new world peace is being delayed by the stub-
born resistance of England and Anerica. Now, when we co sider
the European war, the summer of 1940, when the British troops were
confronted with the danger of defeat and compelled to retreat
from Continental Europe due to surrender of Belgiun and the de-
feat of France, was the most disnal period of England. At that
time, the defense of the British Isles had not been completed.
Consequently, the people of England were in a state of extreme
uneasiness, caused by the disappointment of having lost their ally,
Brance, and the fear of Gerian invasion. Hence, it was the most
critical period for the British cabinet. However, Germany's in-
vasion of the British Isles vas not carried out and through the
hope placed on America's aid, England was able to pass through
this crisis. In spite of the fact that England tasted defeat in
the Balkans and was comnaled to retreat in Libya ineidately after-
wards, she, nevertheless, has becn able to carry on the f ight to
this day. This is attributable to nething other than America's
spiritual and material aid, for America's aid has been strength-
ened in accordance with the intensification of Englands defeat,
and has finally resulted in Aerica's occupation of Iceland,
which can be taken as a sign of Aerica's direct entry into the
war. Another reason for the prolongation of the European war
was the outbreal of the war between Germany and Russia. Although
this Russo-German war was a contemplated move for Germany, it
was certainly a .............. for England. It was duo to the
Russo-Gernan war that England, vho had been defeated in Crete,
was able to accorplish her invasion of Syria. Thus, England ..
....................... through Aterica's eid and the outbreak
of the Russo-Gernan war. And in as much as America is making a
puppet of England and Soviet Russia for the realization of her
abition to dominate the vorld and it has been reported as fact
that that the motivating power of the war against Germany has
shifted from England to ierica, who, objectively speaking, is
adv ocating various peaceful leasures, it must be regarded that
the war against Germany will naturally be prolonged. Even if
England and Russia sue for peace, America will not readily allow
it. As for Gerrany and Italy, they should carry on their presint
plan until they have achieved a decisive victory, for so long as
England and Russia are not defeated and America is not ........,
they can never hope to establish a new order in Europe. Hence,

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
Page5
in view of the above-mentioned situation, the heads of Gerriany
and Italy recently hald a discussion at the northern front far
five days. In all likelihood, they must have discussed the above-
mentioned sutmation and adopted a prudential policy to cope with
the protracted war. (Record indistinct). However, it should be
considered that England has many weaknesses. Fcr oxample, her
fear of the conclusion of a separate peace between Russians and
Germany, her industrial uneasine s, her fatal .......... and
Gernany's persistent air raids. These refute the optimistic views
rade public by England and to verify the existence of .......
When England's industrial aspect is considered, it is as follows:
In regard to the arma .ent manuBacturing industries, the first
thing can be said is its shortage of labor; the second is the
ha pering of production caused by this shortage; the third is
the strong opposition existing within government and civilian
cirdles, as verified by a report stating that a union fined a con-
pany for requiring its vworkers to work nore than the specified
nuaber of hours; the forth is the increase in the number of men
absent from work; the fifth is the .......... caused by malnutri-
ticn; and the l st is the inefficiency of the distribution of raw
materials. Besides these, her other weaknesses are the inefricien-
cy of her production pover, which is not producing its expected
quota, the failure of her inoreased coal proauction plan and many
others too numerous to mention. These all indicate the frailness
of the British capitalistic systen.. Furthermore, the shortage
of food and the rising of prices are bringing about a terrible
uneasiness withing this energeney. Practically all of the other
nations have perfected their wer focting and have successfully
solved these problens, but for England these problems have become
her fundanental obstacles. ier only alternative would be ot en-
act a strict government control (?). However, it would be a very
difficult task for England and Anerica, who are cl ing ing to
liberalism, individualisn and capitalism and fichting for these
prineiples, to do this. (Record indistinct) While the war has
had no ill effect upon Ger. any, it is threatening to overthrow
England's capitalistic policy from its foundation. (Record in-
distinct). Herein lies the inconsistency of England. Hence,
England is hoping that ths prolongation of the war will not be a
prolongation of her .............., for she inevitab ly would
have to surrender if it were to be so. This is why she is striv-
ing to prolong the war between Russia and Germany and make Russia
fight against Germany to the last and is eagerly wanting to spreud
the war into other countries. This plan of England has been en-
acted in Syria, Iraq and Iran and is also being stretched to Thai-
land in East Asia, where she has cleverly lured Anerica, Chungking
and the Dutch East Indics into forning the anti-Japanese encircle-
ment and is also about to lure Soviet Russia into the group.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
age #6
Furthermore, Premier Churchill, who is the motivating power of
this British imperialism, perverting the facts of the China In-
cident, which broke out two years before the European war, has
termed it Japan's attempt to follow the exanple of Hitler.
(Record Indistinct). Besides, England is trying desperately to
excite America and disrupt the peace of East Asia by inquiring
as to whether Anerica wants to or is going to fight in the Pacific.
In spite of this attitude of England, Japan has assumed as pru-
dential policy due to her earnest desire to reserve the peace
of East Asia and, in the long run, to establish world peace.
This
desire has been clearly ranifested through the message
sent to President Roosevelt by Prenier Honoye, whose desire is
to preserve the peace of the Pacific. It can be expected that
the European war, which has now entered its third year, will have
a greater effect upon the situation in Wast Asia this year. How-
ever, just as she has prevented the sppeading of the uropean war
into East Asia until today, Japan, of course, will strive to pre-
vent the spreading of the war into East sia all the more and work
for the welfare and happiness ci the races of East Asia. Further-
more, in spite of the fact that she has been carrying on a diffi-
cult war for the past four years. Japan is showing a great re-
serve of strength and is making a steady progress toward the ac-
complishment of her aim--that of annihilating the Chiang regime.
Henc, the construction of the new order in East Asie is gradually
being accomplished with tho four-year-old China ineident as its
basis. On the other hand, the European var, which broke out two
years later than the China Incident, is about to bring about a
new order in Europe through the efforts of Germany and Italy.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.94)
Nederal Burean of Jumestigation
Antted States Department of Juatice
Washington, D.U.
October 2, 1941
PERSONAL AND 
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
001 3-1941
894.76/56
My dear Mr. Berle:
As of possible interest to you I am enclos-
ing herewith translated transcripts of radio broadcasts
from Tokyo, Japan for September 3, 194l and September 4,
1941.
Sincerely yours,
Le. 2toover
Division of
Enclosures
PS/PLS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
0CT194
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Department of State
DIV.
OCT 3 1941
11
JsiceDeaitmet Gud 1-27 1584
B.R1G
5.16.1984

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/3/41
Frequency 15160 Kilocycles
News:
A dispatch from a war correspondence of sahi Shimbun
describing the condition of Chungking caused by the raids of the
Japanese air force. Hentioned the destruction of the anti-Japa-
nese newspaper branches of UP, New York Times, International News
Service and Life.
Places raided by the Japanese naval air force in August:
Ozechwan Province--Chuncking, Seito, Seisho, Kato, Boken; Baishu;
Chushu, Shoha, Ryodan and Hogen. Lansu Province--Ranshu, Tensui;
Seiken. Shensi Province-- Hansui. Honan Province--Chosah, Koyo,
Reisuitan, ........ Kwangsi Province --Keirin, Reigen. Yunnan
Province--Shosui and several other paces. Humber of planes tak-
ing part in the raids -- 2,004. Number of pombs dropped--15;000
Number of enemy planes destroyed-29. Objectives--Air fields,
military establishnents, inportant administrative buildings and
other things of strategic importance.
Having completed the ir assignment, the Japanese troops re-
portedly have evacuated from Fuchow, Fukien Province, today and
are h ading for a certain destination. However, the Japanese
fleet, blockading the China coast, is k ep ing strict watch at
Fuchow.
Japanese troops' operation in North China against the Chi-
nese Communist Arry is progressing smoothly. As a result, the
annihilation of the entire Chinese Comunist Army is expected to
be accomplished soon. Achieverients of the Japanese troops from
August 15 to 31 -- Killed.950, captured 453, 450 rifles, 7725
hand grenades and many other weapons and amaunition.
Japanese troops operating in North China reportedly cap-
tured Fuhei yesterday and are now carrying out mopping-up opera-
tions.
In regard to the radio broadcast made by Director abuchi
of the information bureau of the Imperial Military Headquarters
on the night of September 1, it was sensationally played up in
the newspapers of Washington, New York and othr cities. The point
that was played up was kabuchi's statenent that "Japan is willing
to fight, if necessary for the dostructicn of the anti-Japanese
encircleent".
Substitute for wool nade from coal discovered by Ichiro
Sakurada, of Tokyo Imperial University. Believed to be far sup-
erior than wocl and is already being cormercialized.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
Page2
Japanese Ambassador to Thailand Tsubokami arrived in Hanoi
yesterday and left for Bangkok today.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Russian Emmissar-
ies reportedly reportedly reached Nome on August 31. In regard
to this, the Department of War announced that they are coming
rierely for inspection and not for aeronautical training. How-
ever, according to a dispatch from San Diego, these Russian en-
missaries reportedly are pilots and officers and will probably
fly back the American made airplanes by way of Alaska and Siberia.
At the same time, another report stated that another group of
Russians arrived in San Diego today to negotiate for the purchase
of American made planes. The purpose of the visit of these Russ-
ians reportedly is Alerica's plan to arouse the aid Russia senti-
ment of the nation.
In regard to the President's speech of Sept. 1, the Ger-
nan foreign office ridiculed the the speech as Roosevelt's attempt
to place the responsibility upon labor, while Editor Gayda of the
Journale d'Italia criticized Roosevelt's inconsistency by nen-
tioning the existence of 10,000,000 unemployed in Aaerica. Fur-
thermore, Editor Gayda stated, "It cannot be told by this sp.ech
of the president as to whether America will increase her aid to
England or will enter the war irmediately, and althovgh the presi-
dent stated in this speech that A erica's policy is not one of
territorial ambition, the fact is altogether contrary, for be-
hind it are hidden numerous fraudulent schemes. Honce, the Axis
Powers are deterined to ficht against capitalism, which has
joined hands with Bolshevism, to the very end."
According to a dispatch from New York, it seens as if the
war between Gernany and Russia is being slowed down by bad wea-
ther along the whole front. Eowever, with the encirclement of
Odessa tightening up considerable, its fall is expected to take
place shortly. Along the central sector, however, the Russians
reportedly are making sucessful counter-attacks and reoccupying
their lost positions. Tuis is even being admitted by Germany.
In the northern section, the situation is deametrically different
with the German troops holding the upper hand and tightening the
seizure of Leningrad. In other words, the Gernan troops operating
in from the south have completed the establishment of a semi-circle
encirclement and have cut off the conmunication between Leningred
and other cities. according to a dispatch from Gerlan source,
the German troops reportedly have reached a point 25 kilometers
away from Leningrad. Besides, the Finnish troops reportedly have
advanced as far as the Svir River.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #3
According to a communique issued by the Russian High Com-
mand yesterday, the Russian troops reportedly forced the German
troops to retreat from Tallin yesterday after & fierce battle.
The comm..nique also reported that Russian troops were putting up
a strong resistance along the whole front.
According to a DINB dispatch, harvesting of crops within
the German cccupied territories in Russia is been supervised by
Gernan officials and is progressing very smoothly.
It has become definite that the aim of England and America
aid to Soviet Russia is the destruction of Nazi, together with
exhaustion of Soviet Russia's strength. This was revealed by the
President of the Industrial Labor Union, which is holding a con-
vention at Edinborough (?).
At the interview held between Secretery of State Hull and
news paper reporters on Septerber 2, practically all of the ques-
tions asked pertained to the Japanese-American relations, but
Secretary Hull refused to reply to any of the questions, except-
ing to the questions pertaining to his discussion with Ambassador
Nomura and as to whether any new developments have occurred. In
regard to these questions, Secretary of state Hull replied that
he had met Ambassador Numura to discuss matters pertaining to the
governments of Japan and Aicrica. In regard to the question as
to whether President Roosevelt had replied to Fonoye's message,
Hull stated that it would be better for then to ask at te White
House.
Comment on Current Events:
Topic"A Strong Wing of the IHutual Prosperity Sphere":
The talk pertains to French Indo-China and her collaboration with
Japan. It mentions hov: the people of French Indo-China have come
to realize the sincerity and true motive of Japan and how they
are looking up to the Japanese troops because of their strict
discipline and simple living. It explains how French Indo-China
is gradually inclinin: toward Japan, politically and e conomical-
ly, and her determination to exclude any nation that refuses to
recognize her peculiar position. In recard to the economic deve-
lopment of French Indo-Ch na, it is elaborated in deteil, start-
ing with the e stablishnent of many new Japanese firms in French
Indo-China end ending vith the prospects of greater trade between
Japan and French Indo-China, thus cutting off their dependence
upon England and America.
Japanese Lusic.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
Page.4
Domestic news (Kyushu Districts):
News included an airplane presentation ceremony and
the celebration of a festival in Fukuoka Prefecture, the importa-
tion of sheep from New Zealand to Kunanoto Prefeuture (Believed
to be the last shipment because of the tightening of export re-
strictions in New Zealand), the revival of the warrior dances of
Kagoshima Prefecture, which had been forgotten for sixty five
years, the great production of pears and the celebration of the
Summer festival in Saga Prefecture, the near completion of a
shrine in Oita Prefecture, the plan to expand the air field faci-
lities of the Miyazaki air field in iyazaki Prefecture into the
biggest air field in Southern Kyushu and the festival held in
Menory of Cmdr. Tachibana at the Tachibana Shrine in Nagasaki
Prefecture.
Talk by Furuyasu Irizawa (?), assistant chief of the pro-
paganda bureau of the ational Support Society, on the topic "The
Lighty and Brilliant Japan": (Condensed) Japanese residents of
abroad, you, no doubt, are deeply concerned at the condtions in
Japan under this emergency. Hence, I would like to take this
opportunity to tell you about the national service being rendered
by the nation to construct a strong national defense through the
national support moveent. In view of the bad weather we experi-
enced this sumer, it was belis ved that the rice harvest of this
year would be bad, but according to a survey rade by the govern-
nent, as well as the newspapers, it has been estinated tht the
rice harvest will be about the sare as last year. This is wholly
attributable to the great effo t of the farners, for if they had
not worked so diligently, we inevitably vould have experienced
a great shortageof rice, as was the case in 1934. Although the
rice production of places in Holkaido, Aomori Prefecture and Iwate
Prefecture will be less than usual, the production in Weste rn
Japan districts, as a vhole, will be greater than last year to
make up for this shortage. This is wholly attributable to the
patriotic devotion of the farrers to the Inperor and this patrio-
tic spirit is not only being seen in the agrarian districts, but
everywhere, even in the mining districts and at home. Hence, the
way of the Gods (patrictic spirit) is being practised in cvery
line of work. It if were not so, it vould be impossible for
Japan to establish a strong national defense. Consequently, the
National Support Society, having set aside the first day of every
month as National Service Day, is assisting in tho rationaliza-
tion of the national living to prevent any waste. For oxample,
the aim of the national service day of July 1 was the unification
of national living, while the ain of the national service day of
August 1 was to establish correct living. In other words, the
Hational Support Society is striving to independent manner of
living of each individual into one of group or mass living--that
is, a life of all combining their strength and assisting each
other. For example, a cornunity kitchcn was established in a cer-
tain village of Chiba Prefecture and all the villagers were fed

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
age /5
from this kitchen. As a result, nct only did their expense de-
crease considerably, but every one became healthier because of
taking the sae anount of nourishment. Even the nunber of sick
persons decreased. A sinilar plan was adopted ay a very poor
village, composed of 47 fanilies, in Hyogo Prefecture. As a re-
sult, they all were able to repurchase their lands, 80 percent
of which had been in the hands of other villages, end even sav-
ing over 50,000 yen after paying off all their debts. In another
village of Okayana Prefecture, the plan of cooperative work was
adopted, whereby every one cooperated in the planting and plowing
of the fields. As a result, their production was three to four
tines greater than that of the other years. By these examples,
it can be seen vhet unexpected strength can be derived by coopera-
tive and nass living. Hence, the rationalization of living is
being carried out throughout Japan, because real cooperative
strength cannot be realized with some working hard and others
playing and saie saving to help their country and too many others
spending recklessly. Consequently, the Fational Support Society
is cncouraging the nation to ti ghten up in the ir anner of living
and bring about a constructive strength. The past national ser-
vice day of September 1 was the anniversary cf the great Kwanto
disaster, and the nation recalled the &reat constructive strength
of 18 vears ago and decided to vind up the spring of their soul
with the idea of establishing a strong naticnal living footing.
The aim of this is to work for the perfeation of the three branch-
es of living--narely, food, clothing and habitation: At the same
time, since soldiers cannot fight a war when hungry, the war-time
food supply footing, too, must be secured and expanded. In view
of the fact that farners are striving to increase the production
of food stuffs, homes throughout Japan are utilizing their back
yard and enpty lots cfr the growing of vegetables and even striv-
ing to save one grain cf rice. Again, to meet the denand for war
materials, the people of Japan are leading a sinple life and iron
and copper cathered from all parts of Japen are being used for
this purpose. In connection with this, the Hational Suppo.t So-
ciety, cooperating vith the governrent, has started a nation-wide
"Everybody Work" movement. Hence, everybody, including wonen and
children, is working and nobody can be seen playing. In this
way, the national service novement has been spread to every nook
and corner of Japan, and the nation, united as one, is doing its
utnost to serve the country. Therefore, no matter how the situa-
tion may arise and how rough the waves of the Pacific may become,
an unshakable ar preparation capable of vithstanding the timpest
is gradually being perfected. In view of this united strength,
the future of Japan is very pronising, no matter hov drastically
the world may change, Japanese residents of abroad, no matter how
far apart we are separated by the sea in between us, let us join
our heart and hands and narch ahead strongly.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZF Program
Date 9/4/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles.
Japanese Lusic.
News:
According to a cormunique issued by the Japanese mili-
tary headquarters in South China, the evacuation of our troops
fron Foochow has been completed and the troops are now heading
for a certain area. Japanese trcops have evacuated because peace
and order has been restored in that region.
Dispatch describing the evacuation of the Japanese troops
from Foochow by a Domei reporter.
A spokesnan of the Japanese military headquarters in South
China today stated that the Japanese tr ops, which evacuated from
Foochow yesteriiy, were heading toward an unknown destination on
board transports. He explained that the fact that Chinese failed
to interfere with the action of the Japanese army showed that they
had lost their fighting capacity.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, the Chinese iimigrants
of French Indo-China were somewhat surprised at the evacuation
of the Jepanese troops from Foochov, which would leave the Chinese
of that region open to cppression, but vhen they heard the announ-
cenent made by the Japenese military headquarters of South China,
they became somewhat relieved.
The first anniversary of the death of the late Prince Kita-
shirakawa, who was killed in action in Mongolie last year, was
observed today. A similar service was held at the locality where
he died and was attended by Mongolian Governnent officials.
A meeting of the vice-ministers was held today at the Pre-
mier's residence. Reports on the present European situation were
made by Vice-lfinister of Var ........ and Vice-Hinister of Foreign
Affairs Amoo.
The Ministry of Educatim has decided to organize a student's
society for the promotion or health shortly. This society will
take charge of all student athletics and imbue all athletics with
naticnal significance. The head of the society will be the mini-
ster of education and the other officers will be chose from among
the civilians. This society is expected to start functioning
from next year.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
ge 2
In order to perfect the self-sufficiency of food-stuffs,
an agricultural science research group was formed and inaugurated
at the Imperial Hotel on Sept. 3. This Eroup will make a scien-
tific stuay of the agricultural resources of East Asia.
The investigation and st:dy of the races of East Asia,
which was started by the Peer' School last July, has been com-
pleted and will shortly be released through the National Support
Society as "Towa Shominzoku Lei" and "Linzoku Dento Zu". (The
ofrmer is "The Precept of the East Asiatic Races" and the latter
is "The Graph of Racial Descent").
At a time when tericans are evacuatin: from Japan due to
the acute relations between merica and Japan, there has been
found an American, who has decided to spend the rost of his life
in Japan. He is Paul Raft (?), father of American style of foot-
ball in J pan. He clained that America is misunderstanding Japan
and would like to stay in Japan to sho to his country men that
foreigners can reside peacefully in Japan. He stated that even
if the worst should arise between Japan and Aierica, he will not
leave. In time, Anerica will cate to understa. d Japan, he said
and continued, "If y friends in Japan should Torsake me, I will
not return to America, but coit hara-kiri."
According to dispatches fron America, merica's oppression
of the Southern nations, which for erly inclined toward Europe,
seens to have become stronger and is conpelling the south Ameri-
can nations to estrange thenselves from the Axis Powers. One of
the things, manifesting this trend is the relations between Ameri-
ca and Lexico. Besides negotiatin: for the ccnclusion of a poli-
tical and economic agree ent with Mexico, ierica has granted a
loan for the stabilization of Mexico's currency end to enable her
to purchase airplanes. Besides, merica reportedly is negotiat-
ing with Colombia and Ecuador to lend funds to both nations for
the stabilization of their currency. These measures cen be re-
garded as America's attempt to sugment her power by talking advan-
tage of the South American naticns.
According to a dispatch fron Berlin, the Gerian troops re-
portedly are tightening up their semi-encircleent of Leningred
and are now 20 kilometers avay fron that city. According to the
inforraticn released by Gerrnan eutho ities, the encirclenent of
Leningred is so tightly arranged that not a single Russian will
be able to escape.
According to a dispatch from Few York, Toshinori Fakanishi
forner director of the anchurian Railway, left Few York by plane
today for San Francisco and is expected to return to Japan by way
of Shanghai. He cormented on the Russo-Gernan war and stated

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
age #3
that the reason why Germany is moving slowly but surely toward
Leningrad and Moscow is that she wants to capture both of these
cities without causing much destruction in view of the coming
winter season and that Germany, contrary to the belief that she
has not enough oil, has sufficient oil to carry on for many months
to come.
According to a cormunique issued by the German High Command,
the German air force on the night of September 2 raided the har-
bor facilities on the eastern coast of ngland and the air fields
in the central part of England, besides shooting down l& British
planes over the English Channel and Hclland and off the coast of
Norway. On the other hand, although British planes came to raid
Central Rhineland and Berlin, they were successfully repulsed.
In regard to raid of the German air force on Suez Canal on Sept.
1, a DIB dispatch stated that t e German air force destroyed the
electrical plant at Port Fuad and caused fires to brake out as
nany places.
According to a communique issued by the Italian High Com-
mand, the Italian air force on September 1 confronted Russian
planes for the first time over the west bank of Dnepr River and
shot down eight of then.
According to a dispatch from Washington, although the date
of the oscow con ference is not known, the names of the American
delegation was made public on Sept. 3rd by the White House. Ac-
cordingly the leader of the delegation is ........ Harrinan, de-
fense coordinator (?), the others are Haj. Cens. James Barn and
George Breed, Adniral Willia: Standley and William Bradt (All
phonetic). They will be accompanied by nine technicians. Their
date of departure and course were not anncunced.
The British Air 'inistry today announced the destruction
of an Aierican-made plane, vhich was being flovm to England, on
the west coast of England and the death of the ten men on board
the ill-fated plane.
Corient on Current Events:
Topic "Our Air Force's deternination to disrupt the
peace of East Asia": According to a Donei dispatch from New York,
the radio broadcast, made by Director MMabuchi of the information
bureau of the Imperial Military Headquarters on September 1, is
being weighed with great inphrtance and is causing a great sc-
sation. That is, the newspupers of Washington, New York, Boston,
Philadelphia and other important cities played this up in their
torning and evening editions and the morning papers, in particu-
lar, played this upon on the front pages of their first and last
editions as the most irportant item. The capticns, toc, report-
edly were sensational.  The Washington Post, for example, pub-
lished a long dispatch from Tokyo under the caption "Spokesman

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
age #4
Of Army States Japan Liay Be Forced To Take Armed Action To Break
The Encirclenent." And wat these American newspapers expecial-
ly played up and attached great importance to was, in a word, the
deternination and warning and that although Japan presently is
making a diploratic effort for peaceful settlenent, Japan abso-
lutely is not afraid of fighting against the nations forming the
encirclement, if it becomes necessary to break the encirclement,
which is affecting the very existence of Japan. This is certain-
ly to the point and only proper, for this certainly is one of the
inmportant points within Capt. labuchi's long broadcast. Speaking
from the stand point of us, Japanese, the talk impressed us deep-
ly in as much as each and every word of Capt. Mabuchi's talk was
what we had had deeply in our heart. In other words, our deter-
rination had been represented in the vords or Capt. Mabuchi, who
holds the responsible position of director of the informetion bu-
reau of the Imperial Military Headquarters. On hearing this, the
nation increased its confidence in the army and, at the same time
if fired their fiery determination to surrount all obstacles.
Now, let me repeat a part of Capt. Mabuchi's talk at this time.
Capt. abuchi stressed the fact that the anti-Jepanese encircle-
ment of the A3oD group is a direct threat against the existence
of our country and that Japan is in a position wherein she must
break this encircle ent. He stated that the attept to break this
anti-Japanese encircle ent will bring about e great protracted
war with the ABCD group, especially with England, and ierica,
who are the leaders of this group, and that this certainly should
be termed as a great crisis literally inmperiling the existence
of our country. He then coru ented upon the unreasonable anti-
Japanese oppression of England and Anerica and clained that the
creation of the grester East Asia nutual prcsperity sphere is an
absolute necessity for the existence of our country from the
standpoint of sccuring the war resources to ereble Japan to oppose
this oppression. Then, the Capt. st ted that the unfriedly chal-
lenging acts of England and ierica and their virtual declaration
of economic war are forcing Japan to stand on the cross-road of
her fate, regardless of her desire and that her dtermination to
cope wi th the present situation and hor acconpanying measures to
break this deadlock should be certainly regarded as the key deter-
mining her fate. "To begin with", he continued,"arns are destruc-
tive weapons and the utmost caution must be exercised in their
usage. Consequently, our authorities have lade their utmost ef-
forts to avoid this crisis through peaceful diplonatic negotia-
tions with extreme pat ionce end diligence to d ate and will con-
tinue the ir peaceful effort to prevent this break with tieir ut-
most diligence even in tho future. However, from the stand point
of the absolute nature of strategic requireient, it is obvious
that peaceful measures, rcgardle s of vhat they are, cannot be
postponed cver a specified period". Thus did he state as though

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
age #5
he were spitting fire and argued that if a peaceful soluticn can-
not be sought through diplomatic neagotiations with the third pow-
ers, Japan will have to use her actual strength to break the
anti-Japanese encirclenent in order to accomplish the ain of her
crusade and seek for the settlerent of the siuuation through it.
Thus did he in a responsible position manifest his unusual deter-
mination to the nation and, at the same time, issue a serious warn-
ing to the third powers. The deterinaticn of our country, upon
which I previously stated, the Arerican newspapers attached great
importance, was expressed with the above menticned words. The
words are certainly pertinent and fiery. The speaker as well as
the listeners certainly were imbued with inspiration and serious-
ness, resulting in the nation, which is fighting desperately to
preserve her matchless national structure and brilliant tradition
and, at the same time, for the establishment of real peace in
East Asia, flaring up into & ball of fire. The determination of
the nation and the arry authcrities to cope with the ABCD group
is, for the nost part, exactly as stated above. Now, the recent
total destruction campeign started against Chungking, which is
barely nanaging to keep alive with England and Aerica's aid,
should, probably, be regarded as a nanifestation of this determina-
tion. By this, I mean the ntensification of the air raids of
Chungking by the Jananese naval and military air forces and re-
garding their brilliant achievements, they have been reported to
you in the forn of news whenever accomplished. Now, England and
America cannot help but adnit that the personnel and strength of
our air force have been considerably strengthened. Horeover, our
air force's raids of Chungking and the other air fields in the
interior are frustrating and breaking up the eneny's plan to re-
organize its air force and even preyingupon the lerican made
planes which are being shiped in great numbers, of kte. This
it is needless to nention, is driving into despair Chungking's
fight ing spirit. At the same time, it is making England and Aneri-
ca, who are a tempting to make impossible the settlement of the
incident through thcir aid to Chungking, especially to her air
force, realize how useless and ineifective their absur: plan is.
Today, the air fields in Chungking and the other parts of the
interior are not being constructed as those of the Chungking
troops alone, but as the joint air bases of England, and Anerica
and Chungking. This beccmes clear when it is considered that it
is America, who enthusiastically advocated and started the con-
struction of new air fields in Szechwan, Yunnan and other provin-
ces and the reconstruction of the Burma route as the important
airplane transportation route. Hence, through the arrival of
America's military errmissaries, which, headed by ............,
is scheduled to leave Anerica shortly, in Chungking, Chungking
will virtually be placed under the control of Arerica. Further-
more, it can be regarded as unmistakeable facts that over 200

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #6
American-made planes have already been shipped and that numerous
American aviation technicians and pilots have been dispatched dur-
ing the months of May and June and are already stationed through-
out the interior. Today, the number of air fields in the inter-
ior. Today, the number of air fields in the interior amounts to
over 500 and in Chungking, Chengtu and the southwestern regions
are found numerous air fields with modern faci lities. Thus, it
is clear that our air force, which is repeatedly conducting long
distance bombing raids to these regions, is not only fighting
against the Chinese air force. At the same tiie, our air force
is determined to destroy all planes, whether they be British,
American or Soviet planes, so long as they are enlisted under
the banner of Chungking and harbor anti-Japanese enmity. Hence,
the raids of our air force, as mentioned above, on Chungkii g as
well as the other parts of the interior nost clearly demonstrate
our arny's determination as expressed by Capt. Labuchi, and the
hostile nations should realize that this activity will not always
be limited to this regicn and scope in the future, I think. The
destruction of the ABCD encirclement and the annihilation of the
allied ABCD forces are certainly the watch-word that is being
shouted within our country ar.idst the intensified atnosphere of
racial consciousness. It is a cry placing the fate of our coun-
try and that of East Asia at stake.
Japanese  usic
Talk on "The present Japanese-American relations", by Zenzo
Naoni, of Chugai Shogyo: The world's ccncern is focused on two
problens. They are the Russo-Ger: an war and the Je panese-Arieri-
can relations. Today, I would like to talk about the Japanese-
American relations. It is needless to state th. t the aim of Pre-
mier Konoye's message to Presidant Roosevelt is to wipe away the
obstacles lying in the path of the Japanese-Axrican relations.
However, in regerd to the actual eifect of this peaceful effortbf
Japan, we must weit for future developments and refrain from
speculation indiscrilinately at this tine. To my way of think-
ing, the attitude heretofore taken by Japan gainst America was
nothing other tian friendly from the beginning to the end, but
America's attitude toward Japan, it can be said, was to spurn
and ignore Japan. Shall I term the thing which is being regard-
ed with great iportance, of late, as the ABCD alliance against
Japan or the joint anti-Japanese encirclement? At any rate, it
is needless to mention that the leaders of the plan to check
Japan's action frcn all sides are England and America. As to.
why Aierica must assume such acrid attitude toward Japan, we are
at a loss to understand. Properly speaking, it cannot be thought
that therc is any reason why Japan and America ust clash with
each other. Fror the political point of view, it is clear that
no one side will profit by fighting the other, while fron the
economic point of view, the interests of Japan and America are

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
age /7
cormon in as much as each ministers to each other's wants. If
there is a reason for a clash between the two, it is because one
side harbors the ill design to oppress the other. The settle-
rent of the China Incident and the establishrent of a greater
East Asia Mutual Prosperity Sphere are Jepan's unshakable policy
and any one can see that it holds no secret design to make Ameri-
ca surrender. levertheless, the situa tion between Japan and Ameri-
ca is actually in a state liable to flare up into fire. In fact,
Owen Latt imore, who was sent to China by President Roosevelt as
advisor to Chungking, stated that the weapons sent to China by
America are weapons to be used only against Japan. Thus, by
stating this, did he'openly confess that Chungking is fighting
against Japan as a substitute for Anerica. How, what on earth
is the reason for this? This is because America has a secret
aggressive design to oppress Japan, and isn't it justifiable to
.entertain such suspicion? r. ............., an American, is
claiming that cnly England will profit by a war between Japan and
America. In fact, when it is considered that A.erica has not as
much interests in East sia as to make it necessary for her to
resort to war, we carnot help but perveive the existence of a
nation very smart in acting behind the critical situation between
Japan end America. Even the Open-Door policy, which is the exact
opposite of the Monroe Doctrine, which is stiil America's only
policy, was suggested by an Englishman, named Rockhill, and the
nare of Secretary of State Haye was only affixed to the declara-
tion. And it was not America, but England, who actually profit-
ed by this. It is the consensus of opinion of the experts that
America's Far Eastern policy since then, has been one of picking
the chestnuts out of the fire for England. Taken advantage of
by England because of her sympathetic nature, America, who is
claiming first in everything, has naw been cmpelled to expand
her Western Heriisphere defense tiroughout the world. Now, what
is the meaning of America's occupation of Iceland? Then too, it
is needless to mention what the a in of hor freezing of Jupanse
assets and other econonic coercion against Japan is. In contrast
to the fact that the landing of the Japanese troops in Southern
French Indo-China was literally conducted for the purpose of de-
fenee under an agrcerent with the French Covernnent, Anerica's
occupation of Iceland was conducted vith a wholly different mo-
tive. In spite of this, America is regarding Japan's move toward
the South as a threat against the Philippines and Singapore and
is claiming that the anti-Japanese encirclement has been brought
about through Japan's own actions. However, any one will agreo
that the ABCD encirclement was formed prior to Japan's debouch-
ment into Fronch Indo-China. In other words, because she was
being threatened by the foriation of the Joint anti-Japanese en-
circlement, Japan concluded the joint defense agreer.ent of French
Indo-China, this naking the story altogether different. Now, in

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
age 8
regard to rumor of Pacific crisis, some are regarding it as Eng-
land's strategy to make America have a taste of the war in the
Pacific first after discovering the : difficulty of luring Ameri-
ca into the European war imediately. However, Alerica fully
knows that it would be better to compromise with Japan, instead
of fighting against her, in order to accomplish her aim ofdefeat-
ing Gerrany by helping England and also is afraid that if she
were to bungle and clash against Japan before the completion of
her great armament expansion program, it would not only bring
about the destruction of the world, but also the shattering of
her dream of defeating Gernany through her aid to England, thus
imperiling her position. Consequently, it is needless to mention
that behind her coercion against Japan is hidden a schene of con-
cilietion. This can be considered in two ways. The first is
that she, believing that Japan's national economy has been cn si-
derable exhausted by the five years of war, is of the belief that
Japan would surrender if she would intensify her economic coer-
cion. The second is that since she knows that it would be dan-
gerous if Japan is not exhausted, as expected, she is thinking
of opening a vay for conciliation after gradually intensifying
her coercion upon perfecting the encirclement of Japan. At any
rate, her idea is to go as far as she can and to snash Japan with
one blow if Japan shows any sign of weakening. This is Ameri-
ca's plan. In fact, besides having frozen Japan's assets within
America, America, cooperating vith not only England and her posses-
sicns, but also with the Dutch East Indies, is assuming the in-
human attitude of trying to cut off the necessary raterials from
Japan. On the other hand, under the pretext of sending military
aid to Soviet Russia, she is even planning to send gasolin.. to
Vladivostok throuch the neighboring waters of Japan. As if to
say "Haven't yu got enough?", she seens to be intensifying her
challenging attitude in this and that manner. Anerica's aid to
Soviet Russia, in reality, is sinilar to that of Chungking, for
it can be readily perceived that her intention is to utilize
Russia in its attack acenst Japan. Consequently, it is nothing
but a plan to strengthen the anti-Jupanese encircleiiont, composed
of England, Hetherlands and Chungking throught the enticement of
of Soviet Russia, and it certainly is a matter upon which the
fate of Japan depends. Therefore, we, Japanese in Japan, are
all prepared for the wor... However, it should not be overlooked
that we, as people of a great nation, ere ........... and are
propared to take peaceful reasures in view of American's true
motive of being afraid to bring about a break in spite of her
anti-Japanese coercion. It is believed that Konoye's message to
President Roosevelt was probably the result of this point of view.
Two years of the great European war have already passed and in
spit, of Germany's achievenents, the situation is not showing any
sign of approaching closer to peace.  In stead, the sign of pro-
traction has become stronger through Hitler and Mussolini's

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
ge i/9
discussion held at the end of last month. It was this very day
of last year when itler, upon his return to Berlin (?), laughed
at England's plan of protracting the war for three years and
claimed Germany's victory in a short time. With such a genius
as Titler, it was not thought that the war would enter a state
of protraction. Today, Japen is standing on the cross-road of
peace or war. In view of this acute national crisis, why should
we, subjects of Japan, be afraid (?) of war! Granting that we
ali have this same feeling, we, in view of the nature of nodern
warfare, should not think that it will last for only two or three
years once when started. Hence, there is a need for usto be fully
prepared and determined. At the sa e time, we should strive to
find a solution patiently and diligently. If America should think
that Japan has taken this comparatively conciliatory attitude be-
cause of her lack cf power, that will result in a serious mistake
for America. That is because there is a limit to the patience
of Japan.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.95)
Federal Burean of Javestigation
tated Stutrs Drpartment of Juatice
Mashington, B. C.
RECEYVED
PERSONAL AND 
OUVISION 0F
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
LDivisionof
Assistant Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
ASSISTANT
OCT15 1941
Washington, D. C.
0CT:1941
Department of State
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
894.76/57
interest to you I am enclosing herewith translated
transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan
for the period September 5, 1941 to September 9,
1941, inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
Le. atoover
4.76
81
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILED
22 1941
OCT 10 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PS
DECLASS.
Justice Depactuent Guidelenes, 1.27.1984
/LD
By R1G
NARS, Datc 5.16.1984

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
18
Station JZK Program
Date 9/5/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
A reeting of the cabinet was held today at the Premier's
residence and a report on the current international situation was
made by Foreign Minister Toyoda. Furthermore, at today's meeting
the bureaus of air defense and national defense were newly created.
At yesterday's conference to make preliminary arrangements
for the centralization of students' physical training, sponsored
by the LMinistry of Education, a report of the services rendered
by the sudents to the nation during tho Summer was made.
Capt. Yuzuru Okuma, director of the 2nd section of the 2nd
division of the infornation bureau, has been transferred to an im-
portant post at sea and Capt. Katsuya Sato, former naval attache
to the Japanese Legation in Mexico, has been appointed as his
sucessor. At the same time, Cmdr. Goro Takase, also of the 2nd
section, has been transferred to an important post at sea.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, Japanese Anbassador
to Thailand Tsubokaii safely arrived in Bangkok yesterday from
Hanoi. He was grected at the air port by Minister Fukami.
The Education Ministry's training ship, Nippon Maru, which
left on its training cruise to Kiloong, Aloy, Shanghai and other
places with 47 trainees selected from varicus nautical colleges
of Jepan on lay 24, return to Shibaura, Tokyo, today, after com-
pleting a voyage of 6,s00 miles.
In regard to the evacuation of the Jepanese troops from
Foochow on September 3, the Chungking Govermlent, as expected, has
issued its usual propaganda, usual propaganda, claining the vic-
tory of the Chinese troops. However, in view of the statement
ussucd by our Eigh Cormand in South China at the tire of the eva-
cuation, this propaganda appears to have no efi ect.
The Japanese military air force on Septerber 4 raided six
places east of the Yellow River in Shansi Province--namely: Hanjo,
Kaiin, Shokan, Kanyo, Inan and .......... Another squadron raided
Kyujo.
According to the announcement made on Septaiber 3 in regard
to the achievements of the Japanese trc ops operating in North
China, the Japanese troops have fought 24 battles against 35,000
enemy troops, killed 950 of them, while capturing 340 as well as
numerous arms and armunition.

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
According to a dispatch from Madrid, a Spanish newspaper
of Septenber 4 sensationally played up a British report in regard
to Premier Konoye's nessage, as follows: To wipe away the scourge
of the Pacific problens, it is not necessarily impossible to im-
prove the Japanese-Arerican relations. Japan is respecting Ameri-
can interests in the Western liemisphere and, at the same time,
is requesting America to respect Japan's position in East Asia.
The Open-Door- policy, in realit:, threatens the right of exist-
ence of Japan. Hence, the whole natier depends on the understand-
ing of Washington. Aithough Japan's intention is peaceful, she
certainly is prepared to rise with arms if the strategic acts and
economic blackade aga nst Japan are to be stubbornly continued.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, Governor-General De Coux
of French Indo-China yesterday morning errived in Saigen by Plane
for the first time since the landing of the Japanese troops. He
is expected to exchange calls of courtesy with our military and
naval officials on Sentember 9.
According to a dispatch fron Jatavia, a spokesnan cf the
French Consulate-General in Batavia yesterday stited that the
French Consulate-General in Batavia will be compelled to close
shortly. He stated that sinilar acticn will be taken in Saigon
and Hanoi, probably. Conse uently, he stated, the Vichy Govern-
ment has asked the ierican Governnent to protect the Frenchmen
in the Dutch East Indies, but if Aerica refuses, the Swiss Go-
vernment will probably be asled.
According to an announccnent nade by the Department of Havy,
yesterday, the A erican Destroyer Greer was attacked off Iceland
by an unidentified subarine. The Greer repcrtedly was carrying
mails to Iceland, Wen she was suddenly attacked by a submarine
with torpedoes. The Creer immediately retaliated vith depth bombs.
The German Government yesterday announced the total destrue-
tion of British ships since the beginning of the war by Gerran
subrarines and airplanes as 13,016,820 tons and stated that this
has brought down the total tonnage of British ships to half of that
which she had at the beginning of the war. According to the opin-
ion of maritime experts in Japan, England will suffer a critical
maritime problem noxt spring at the latest, if Gernan continues
the destruction of British ships at the above rate.
According to a conmunique issucd by the Gernan High Comand
on Sept eriber 4, the nost fierce fight ing is being sta ed in the
region around Leningrad and the Gerran troo s r eportedly are only
20 kilometcrs away from Leningrad.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
According to a communique issued by the German High Cormand
on September 4, the Gernan air force on the night of September 3
sank two British ships, totalling 10,00o tons, while the total
number of British ships sunk by the Ger an air force and navy
during the month of August was 537,200 tons.
According to a cormunique issued by the Italina High Command
on September 4, the Italian air force on Septenber 3 raided Tobruk,
I alta and ....... and also shot down 18 British planes in an air
auel.
According to a dispatch fron Washington, America is regard-
ing Prenier Churchill's state ent that America will take part in
the Far East on the side of England if war should break out as
England's request for America's inmediate entry into the war.
Co.ment on Current Events:
Topic: "The perfection of the national economic war
preparation and the establishent of self-sufficiency in East
Asia": The talk lasted for about 15 minutes and mentioned how
Japen is preparing herself against England and Arerica's econo-
mic coercion with new reasures pointing toward the establishment
of self-sufficiency in East Asia. The coimentator painted a great
picture of how Japan is making a steady progress in East Asia in
spite of the attempts of England and Arerica to thwart her and
of how the freezing of Japanese assets in Anerica and the Dutch
Last Indies is having an adverse effect on Anerica and the Dutch
East Indies--namely, the disruption of the econonic condition in
Dutch East Indies and the alienation of French Indo-China fron
the ABCD cordon. In regard to the econcmic preparation being
Lade by Japan, the cormentator mentioned all the recent easures
of Governient control of industries enacted by the cabinet end
clained that these are presently working toward the establishrent
of salf-sufficiency in East Asia.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 9/6/41
Frequency 15l60 Kilocycles
News: (Record very poor)
Achievenents of the Japanese troops operating along
the lower estuary of the Yangtze River--1,500 killed, 200 cap-
tured, 200 surrendered (?), and nany nachine guns, rifles and am-
munition taken.
Achievements of the Japanese troops operating in the north-
ern regions of ............... 938 killed, 154 captured, 490 rifles
and other arms and armmunition taken.
Sonething about Secretary of Stute Hull's interview with re-
porters yesterday and his reply on the question pertaining to the
Japanese-American elations and the Greer Incident (Record faded
into the noise).
Something about sone kind of national service plan adopted
for the youths of Japan by Education Ministry.
According to a dispatch fron Saigon, the authorities of
French Indo-China are doing their utmost to drive out the De Gaul-
lists. On August 23, 20 De Gaullists were arrested. Recently,
they got wind or a secret DeGaullist organization in Saigon and
captured them.
Something about President Roosevelt's interview with report-
ers on the Greer Incident )Record faded into the noise).
According to a dispatch from ............, the USs Greer re-
portedly reached Reykjavik on the morning of septenber 6 and one
of the men aboard stated that the submarne that attacked us prob-
ably has been damaged or sunk by our depth boab.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, a spokesman of the Ger-
man Governnent yesterday stated to an AP reporter in regard to
the Greer that the Reuter's (?) report that the opportunity which
America had been waiting for has finally cone is interesting, but
there is no reason why the unidentified subimarine should be con-
sidered as Gernan. He stated that nothing more can be said until
further details are recieved.
According to a com unique issued by the German High Comand
on September 5, the German troops reportedly are tightening up
their semi-encirclement of Leningrad and bombing Leningrad with
heavy artilleries. Acoording to reports, tho German troops along

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
Page #2
the Kronstadt reportedly have advanced to a point 10 to 15 miles
away from Leningrad. According to a cormunique issued by the
Finnish government, Leningrad is now up in flames and the flames
are so great thet they can be seen from the border of Finland.
According to a dispatch fron Bucharest, the allied air force
of Gernany and Runania shot down 58 Russian planes in an air duel
on September 5, while the anti-aircraft corps shot down 21 Russ-
ian planes.
According to a communique issued by the German High Command
on September 5, the Gernan troops along the central front report-
edly have captured about 17, 3oo Russian troops and many arncred
cars, guns, trucks and ........ during the period starting from
August 25 and ending on September 4, while another detachment of
Gerran troops reportedly have captured about 13,700 Russian troops
and mumerous arms and armunition during the same period.
According to a dispatch irom New York, Fletcher Pratt (pho-
netic), an American military expert, co:i:enting on the Russo-Ger-
man War on the New York Post, stated that is it believed that the
only way Germany can defeat Russia is to occupy Leningrad and then
head southward toward oscow along the Leningrad-Iiscow rallway
and that is the st ategy Germany is following. He claimed that
the defeat of Russia, together with the reat loss suffered by the
British air force, will bring about a grave danger to the allied
nations
According to a dispatch from New York, a New York Tines'
war reporter yesterday published an editorial in regard to the war
situation between Russia and Germany and stated as follows: The
losses of both Gernany and Russia appear to be very great. What
is the greatest of Russia's lcsses is the loss of the Ukrainian
region, which is rioh in oil and dron and since this region is
her most important industrial center, it is certain that her pro-
ductive power has been greatly decreased. Besides, the danger
which is ccnfronting Leningrad, too, is causing a serious effect
on her heavy industries.
According to a dispatch from New York, a German economic
missiou has been sent to Turkey. According to an AP dispatch from
Istanbul, the German mission is expected to arrive in Istanbul on
September 6 and discuss with tho Turkish Government matters im-
portant to conclusion of a new trade agreement between Gerrany and
Turkey, the opening of the now defunct railway running between
Germany and Turkey and other important matters.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
age /3
According to a dispatch from Peking, the Mohammedan follow-
ers in China reportedly undertook a weuk or praying for the sake
of Iran from September 3 and adopted a resolution encouraging the
rallying of the Iranians and the chasticement of England and Ameri-
ca on the fourth day and transmitted the message to Iran.
Conment on Current Events:
Topic "The development of the Russo-German war and the
dark hour of England's fighting power": (Condensed) The European
war has entered its third year and during that tine England has
faced severe crisis several tires. However, with the outbreak of
the German-Russian war, ner crisis was relieved considerably.
Nevertheless, this does not rean that she has beenrelieved entire-
ly, for the German occuapticn of European Russia, which is very
inminent, will confront England with a greater crisis than that
of the Sumer of 1940. In the Sumer of 1940, she was threatened
with German invasion of England form Norway on the north and France
on the south. The question, then, was not whether she will win
or lose, but whether she will exist or be wiped out. She was saved
by America's aid and the outoreak of the Russo-German war. The
situation is not as good as is pronagandized by England, fcr she
is facing internal destruction due to the intensification of her
weaknesses. Due to the lack of capable leaders, her production
power is decreasing all the more and this weakness is being ac-
celerated all the more due to the lack of materials, labor trouble,
accompanying shortage of labor, and the destruction of her ship-
ping by Cerman submarines. Prior to 1939, England reportedly had
21,215,000 tons of ships. From June, 1939 to Apri1 1941, she con-
structed about 1,000,000 tons more and included the 9,760,000 tons
which includes the ships bou'ht from America as well as those taken
from Italy and Gernany, she should have 31,975,000 tons. However,
the losses she suffered up to the end of April should be considered.
According to her anncuncenent she lost 6,127,000 tons, while Ger-
many announced the sinkin of 10,917,000 tons. Granting that
about 30 percent is oxag"erated in the German report, it still
1.. ves 7,000,000 tons sunk. Bcsides these, ships, totalling 1,500,
O0o tons, reportedly have been danaged by Gernany and Italy and
500,o00 tcns by othor causes: It should also be considered that
of the above nontioncd total, 850,000 tons are not usable for foreign
trade, besides the 3,000,000 tons that are being used for military
purposes. Hence, her total tonnace usable for the transportation
of food-stuffs as of the end of April was 15, 00o,000 tons. This
amount, however, is not sufficient to nect her needs, in view of
the fact that her trade in peace-time ranged from 55,000,000 to
56 million tons. In order to neet this shortage of shipping space,
England has three means. She can build new ships, Hower, duo to
her inefficiency of production , she cannot bo expected to con-
struct more than 50 to 60 thousand tons per year. Her next means

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
Page f4
is to purchase from America. At present, America is planning to
construct 1,250,000 tons this year, but will only be able to con-
struct 900,000 tons. Of these, 1et us say 450,000 tons wi11 be
given to England. Her last means to use American ships, which
amount to about 1,350,000 tons. The total of these three means
is 2,400,000 tons. However, in view of th. fact that she is lcsing
about 400 to 500 thousand tons every month and her shortage as of
April, this year, was 3,500,000 tons, she still will be suffering
a shortage of from 4,40g000 to 5,000,000 tons. Consequently, the
fighting power of Englend will be greatly weakened by next spring
due to this shortage of shipping. Although the Ru:so-German War
relieved her considerably; she is now faced with the shortage of
food and shipping. Hence, the sentiment within the country is be-
coming considerably bad and to cope with this, the government is
devising various propaganda. Mevertheless, it is the opinion of
the world that England cannot defeat Germany, for Germany completed
her war preparations several years before the outbreak of the Eu-
ropean war.
Japanese Iusic
Children's News Hour From Tokyo:
The first part of thsi news pertained to the bock most
widely read by the children during the Sumer. According to the
report, the biographies of greut men seem to have been most wide-
ly read. Some of the biographies of the great nen read by the
children were Gen. Nogi, Shogun Yoshitsune Hinaroto, Sontoku Nino-
niya, a very thrifty and hard working man, and other greats of
the Keiji Era, such as Takamori Saigo, Koin Kido, Toshimitsu Okubo,
besides the great men of foreign countries, such as Hitler, Musso-
lili, Hapoleon, Lincoln and dison. Among the second and third
graders, Aesop's Fables and Arabian ights were nost popular.
The second part of this news pertained to the attitude
of Japan against the ABCD bloc. It stated that no natter how the
ABCD bloc may be strengthened, Japan is net a nation that will
yield because cf it. He backed this up with the stateent of the
director of the information bureau of the Imperial Naval Headquar-
ters given on Hay 27, which was Havy Day in Japan. He stated that
Japan's lavy, tod  , is composed of 4,000 planes and 500 warships
and is prepared to such an extent that she is not afraid to meet
any emergency. He mentioned the invasion of the Chinese ermy some
66ǒ years ago in the Eras of Bunei and Koan and how the nation
united and defeated this powerrul enemy. This incident, he stated,
gave rise to the spirt of overseas development among the Japanese
and resulted in tho Japanose migration to Lorea, China and other
parts of the South Seas. Today, he asserted, Japan has becomo one
of the powers of the world and is shining brilliantly above the
nations of East Asia. At the same tine, he explained Japan is

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #5
confronting a similar crisis as that of 660 years ago. In closing
he stated, "Japan is not afraid and perturbed, but is fully pre-
pared to such an extent that she has the confidence to defeat any
nation, which manifests unreasonable attitude against her. Your
fathers and nothers' fatherland, Jipan, is as calm and as resolved
as this and is marching toward the creaticn of a new order in
grecter East Asia, besides destroying the Chungking regine".
Japanese Jusic
Talk on the landing of Japanese troops in French Indo-China
by Maj. Shozo Falkajira, of the information Bureau of the Imperial
Military Headquarters: In accordance with her agreement with
France to jointly defend French Indo-China, Japan, as your already
know, landed her troops in Southern French Indo-China in the early
part of August. I, too, took part in this landing and returned.
Iiediately upon arriving at Saigon on July 29, we started dis-
eabarking and cor pleted our lending by August 4. The landing was
successfully completed without the firing of a single shot and
within about 10 days dfter the signing of the Kato-Darlan agree-
ment at Vichy on July 21. Although a large nurber of Japanese
troops were landed, the French authorities accommodated us in vari-
ous ways, such as the turning over cf the Chamber of Co ierce
building in Saigon for cur military headquarters, the relinquish-
ing of the French Indo-Ch nese trcops' barracks for our troops'
quarters and the placing at our disposal for schools and private
homes. When this is compared with the landing of the Japanese
troops in the northern pert of French Indo-China in September of
last year, we find a great di ference. Th t is,in spite of the
fact that an agreement was ieached in Tokyo between Latsuoka and
Andre (phonetic) in regard to the landing of the Jax nese troops
in French Indo-China in Septenber of last year, the negotiation
at Hanoi was difficult to conclude and : sulted in the proclama-
tion of nartial law throughout French Ido-China, and the situa-
tion was so bad that the Japanese in French Indo-China decided to
evacuate thc country. After a great amount of complications, the
local agreeent was finally concluded on Septenber 22. In spite
of this, clashes between the Japanese trcops and the French Indo-
Chinese troops occurred at various places at the time of the land-
ing. Today, only after ten months since the Landing of the Japa-
nese troops in Torthern French Ineo-China, that the attitude of
French Indo-China has changed to such an extont today, tne months
since the landin: of thc Japanese troops in Forthern Frencl Indo-
China is nothing other than the fact that French Indo-China has
come to realize that the only way to secure the existency of French
Indo-China is to welcore the Japanese troops and cooperate in the
defense of French Indo-China in viev of the times. At the same
time, it is an indication thut Japan's power has spread like

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
Page /6
water during the past ten months to French Indo-China, Which is
about 6,00o : iles away fron Tokyo. Today, the phrase "ABCD en-
circlement" is being used very much. By it, we mean the fornation
of an allied army by Aerica, Britain, Chungking and the Dutch
Ea:t Indies and its pressure against Japan fron the south. It is
the national policy or Japan to settle the China incident and cre-
ate a mutual prosperity sphere in East Asia. If not, she cannot
exist. Yet, sly Britain, enticing Anerica and keeping in step
with Chungking and Dutch East Indies, is encircling and oppressing
Japan from the south. She even tried to entice French Indo-China
to oppose Japan. Hence, Japan, considering French Indo-China as
a menber of the East asia Iutual Prosperity Blcc, could not remain
silent, and French Inco-China, too, came to realize that she, too,
would neet the same fate as Syria and Iran at the hands or Britain
of nothing was to be done. Consequently, she decided to protect
herself jointly vith Japan. In other words, the landing of the
Japanese trooms in Soutiern French Indo-China is punely a defen-
sive measure and is not of an aggressive nature in the least bit.
In fact, the nations responsible for compelling Japan to take this
action are America and Great Britain. If Japan can accomplish her
ain of creating an East Asia lutual Prosp rity Sphere, there is
no need for her to fight against Anerica. I sincerely hope that
Ancrica will come to realize the real situation in East Asia and
come to understand Japan's position as early as possible. In this
way only can peace on the Pacific be maintained. However, if Eng-
land and America insist on obstructing Japan's creation of a mu-
tual prosperity sphe c in East Asia, Japan must breakopen the en-
circlement in order to secure her own existence and inregard to
this, she has the firr ceterrinaticn and con fidence. Now, French
Indo-Cnina has a populaticn of about 23,c00,000 and of thesc, only
40, oo0 are Frencirten. The greater part of the remaining number
is made up of Annamese, Caabodians and other natives. These n-
naiese, heretoforc, have been compelled to submit absolutely to
the Fronch as though they were sheep sacrificed before a God.
They have bcen oppressed and exploited, lut since the Japanese
treops have made their cppearance in a state similar to or above
that of the Freneh, whe have been re art  as Gods, their welcome
to the Jupanese troops was very grcas. Today, everywhere in South-
orn French Indo-China are boing unfoldod friendly seenes botween
the Annenese aid the Japanese troops. Southern French Indo-China
is a region of overlasting summer, and swi ming can be done the
year around. In such an all yeer round hot place, thc hardships
of the Japanese troops, who are so far away from their homeland
and are assisting in thc dufense of French Indc-China are not
small. Novertheless, the Japaneso troops are training every dey
under the hot sun to prepare for cny cmorgency cver sinee they
landed. Our Japanesc  ir force, t∞, is conducting training every

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #7
day over Saigon. Hence, Saigon has become active ever since the
Japanese troops were landed. Today, Japanese troops are guarding
the fifty kilometers long Soviet-Manchurian border in Hanchoukuo
and have fought against the enti-Japanese Chinese army for four
years in China along a front of 4,O0o kilometers. And now, troops
have been sent to the southern end to protect French Indo-China,
which is greater thaa Japan with an area of 740,000 square kilo-
meters. Japan's ideal is to create the greater East Asia Lutual
Prosperity Sphere, composed of Japan, Hanchoukuc, China and South
Asia, accomplish the principle of Asia for the Asiatics and bring
about lasting peace in East Asiu. No .atter how long this project
may take to accomplish, Japan  ust accomplish it. Today, the na-
tion has united as one and is marching toward this.
Japanese iusic

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/7/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Radio Drama
News:
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the German Govern-
ment issued an official statenent in regard to the USS Greer in-
cidnt yesterday, as follows: At 12:30 p.m, on September 4, a
Gernan submarine was confronted with depth bomb attacks several
hundred miles off Germany, but since she was not able to recog-
nize the nationality of the ship that attacked her, she f ired tor-
pedoes against the attacking ship at about 2:39 p.m. in self-de-
fense, but failed to hit the .target. Although the destroyer con-
tinued its attacl: until night, she achieved no result. If the
Aerican navy insist that the German submarine s tarted the attack,
she is making the claim to justify her attack. Furthermore, in.
view of the fact that the American destroyer started the attack,
it can be seen that President Roosevelt has issued a general order,
volating the neutrality law, to all American warships to not only
spot German subiarines, but also fire upon them. In order to stir
up the nation vi th war f.ver against Germany, President Roosevelt
is trying hard to provoke the outbreak of war.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the manifestation
of the American Governnent's attitude, in connection with the USS
Greer incident, to undertake retaliatory action without any hesi-
tation in this sort of incident in the future is an indication of
the strengthening of her Atlantic patrol policy as a means to in-
tensify the nation's war consciousness. Hovever, since the Greer
Incident has been hazy from the beginning and appeared somewhat
queer, even the newspapers of Anerice are reporting tha t it is
causing a foeling of ........... in various quarters. With the
announcement of the Gernan Governnent statement, a part of the
actual facts of the case has been revealed.
According to a dispatch from Hyde Park, William Hackett
(phonetic), the President's private secretary, announced that
the Presidont will rake a radio broadcast on inportant problems
at 4 p.m. on September &. As to the text, he made no reference
and ho cven refrained fron replying definitely as to whether it
will pertain to the Greor Incident or not.
In connection with the USs Greer incident, England is making
various attempts to lure America into the war with editorials in
the English papers to excite the sentiment of the Arericans.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
age /2
As a result of the attack on USS Greer by a submarine, the
problem has become the ............. statenent of President Roose.
velt and the American Navy is expected to car y out an intensified
campaign against German subrarines in the Atlantic, In regard to
this, the newspapers of Japan have taken up this problen in their
editorial colun and have expressed the following view of an im-
partial point of view: Yomi ri Shimbun-- In an interview with
press reporters, President Roosevelt reportedly has expressed a
strong attitude in regard to the Greer incident, but it is only
proper for such an incident to occur in as much as America's po-
licy is ................... A nation that is trying to lure Aneri-
ca into the war has taken advantage of this incident and is trying
to excite the war fever of Arerica. No matter from what angle it
is considered, there can be discovered no reason why Germany sha:ld
issue a challenge against Anerica end involve her into the war.
It inevitably will be impossible to avoid the repetition of this
sort of thing in the future. Arerica, for hr own sake, should
not be lured by the nation, which is trying to take advantage of
this incident to excite the sentiment of the nation. There is a
need for America to consider seriously in regard to this, Asahi
Shiribun--In view of the vagueness of the details and from the fact
that the American warship was not damaged, America, probably, can
find no cause to enter the war inmediately. To begin with, Ameri-
ca's attitude hes been one of ....... since the beginning of the
current European war. So long as no adjustnent is made in her po-
licy against Germany, who can tell that she may not be forced to
cnter the war(?).
A plan for the employment of Aierican technicians in the
various branches of England's production indistries has been form-
ed, according to a dispatoh from New York. That is, the American
Governient has announced that the British Government has dravm
up a plan to employ Aicrican technicians in her home industries.
This is being regardcd as an indication of the weakness of Britain's
production power.
In rogard to the necotiation roportcdly under-way now between
Japan and America in regard to the improvement of thoir rolations,
nothing definite has boon revealed to date, but the newspapers
of Chungking are daily publishing cditorials warning and pleading
with America. According to reports roaching Shanghai, somc sort
of political body of Chungking reportedly has sent a message to
Prosident Roosevelt, urging his cancollation of the Japanese-Ameri-
can nogotiations inmediatcly and to strengthen America's aid to
Chungking.
Achicvenonts of the Japanese militery air lorce operating
in the interior rcgions of China during the poriod starting from
August 1 and ending on Septerber 6 was made public yestorday by
the military headquarters of the Japanese expeditionary forces in

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
age 3
China. In other word s, outside of two or three days, the Japa-
nese military air force raided the interior regions of China al-
most every day, concentrating their attacks primarily upon the
military establishments and routes in Shensi, Szechwan and Kansu
Provinces. The number of bonbs dropped amounted to about 10,O00.
With the return of Anbassador Honda to Nanking, measures for
the strengthening of the Ianking Government are being carried out
one after the other. Properties, formerly belonging to the Chinese
but presently under the management of Japanese troops are gradually
being returned to the Nanking Government.
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, our Ambassador to Thai-
land Tsubokami, accopanied by members of the Japanese Embassy,
yesterday morning made an unoffical call at the foreign office of
Thailand.
According to a dispatch from Madrid, the Chinese Minister
to Spain reportedly called on the Spanish Foreign Minister yester-
day and exchanged opinions on the international situation for about
an hour.
According to a dispatch from Bucharest, Premier Antonescu
of Rurania issued the following state ent in cormenoration of the
first anniversary of the new order established in Rumania on Sep-
tember 5: The Rumanian Government's effort has been realized, and
the conclusion of a treaty with the tripartite powers has not only
secured the future of Rumania, but also has saved Rumania from
Bolshevism.
According to reports from Gerran sources, the German troops
encircling Leningrad have succeeded in cutting off the railway
line between Leningrad and oscow and continued to bomb Leningrad
with long rane guns all day yesterday. On the other hand, the
Finnish troops, which captured Vipuri, reportedly have crossed
the forner border-line and are now near Leningrad. Besides, the
Gernan troops in the central sector on September 5 captured 36.
Russian armored cars and also captured 2,200 Russians, 27 guns,
220 machine guns and 28 nortars in the south, while the German
air force, which raided Odessa, reportodly destroyed four trans-
ports, totalling 17,00o tons.
According to a dispatch fron Helsinki, a Finn, who escaped
fron Leningrad, revealed the condition in Leningrad, as follows:
Due to the great deluge of refugees that cane into Leningrad from
the neighboring regions, Leningrad is confronting a serious short-
age of food and every home in Leningrad is filled to capacity.
Besides, train service from Leningrad was stopped two days ago.
As a result, Leningrad is now completely cut off from the outside.

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
age i/ 4
According to a communique i:sued by the Gernan High Commend
on August 6, the German air force raided the east coast of Scot-
land on kugust 6 and destroyed the railroad terminals along the
coast. On the night of August5, the German air foi ce raided and
destroyed a British ship of about 3,ooo tons off ............On
the sane night, another squadron of German planes raided the Suez
Canal and destroyed three British ships, totalling 14,O00 tons.
According to a dispatch reaching Helsinki, the British and
Soviet troops are still continuing their military activities in
Iran. The Sov iet troops reportedly have advanced to a point about
140 kilometers away from Tehran on the north, while the British
troops reportedly have reaclhed a point about 300 kilometers south-
west of Tehran.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Anerica reportedly
has completed the construction of a new nodern bomber. This is
the Boeing D-17 the test flicht of which vwas held September 5.
Japanese Music.
Corrients on Current Events:
Topic "The Second Year of the European War and the
Chungking Regime": (Condensed) The loss of Canton forced the Chung-
king Governnent to fundamentally change her fighting policy, for
she now was left vith only the b.ckward interior farming regions
upon which to rely. To make matters vorse, the European war
broke out, thus decreasing America's aid toward her. With the out-
break of the European War, another changc took place. It was the
entry of the Scviet Russia into the picture in place of England.
Nevortheless, with Japan increasing hor pressure and tightening
hor blockade, these aids were of no avail. Then came about the
establishent of the Nanking Government, which was a greater blow
to Chungking. To counteract this, Chungking started its schene
to ag ravato the Japanese Amorican rdations and obtain greater aid
fron America. America, too, startcd carrying out her peculiar ag-
grossivc policy by shifting from monotary loan to material aid.
Sho also, started sending rany advisors to Chungking, primarily
to reconstruct the Burma route, the only means left for Chungking
to roceive aid. To undertake this work, a comittee, hoaded by
Dr. James R. Baker, was formod. Their acheme is to have the goods
shipped to Rangoon and to from thero through tho Burma route to
Chungking. However, thoughtful Chinese have come to realize the
danger of Anerica's aid, the ain of which seems to be to place
China under the control of America. In spite of these efforts
made by America, Chungking is still facing e serious inflation.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
Page i5
Prices of coods have risen to twenty times that of before the war
and the shortage of rice and other food-stuffs is threatening to
destroy its fighting power. Koreover, the outbreak of war between
Germany and Russia brought about the lessening of Russia's aid.
Hence, she, today, rust rely solely upon Anerica. However, due
to Japan's blockade, erica's aid to Chungking will be of no use,
no matter to what great extent it may be strengthened.
(Translator's note: There should have been another record
but recorder rust have failed to record the last part of the
broadcast.)

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JzK Program
Date 9/8/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
In regard to the USs Greer Incident, the Gerrian Govern-
ment : ade public the facts of the case on the afternoon of Sept. 6.
According to it, it vas the American destroyer that forst fired
the shot, which proves that President Roosevelt has issued a gen-
eral order violating the neutrality law. In reply to this ac-
cusation, the .erican Havy has ssued a statement placing the
blane on Ger any and is shoving a strong attitude.
According to a dispatch fron Hev York, the situation between
America and Ger any has entered a state of greater acuteness with
the confession of the Ger:an Goverirent that it was a German U-
Boat that wlashed with the USs Greer orf Iceland. Germany is claim-
ing that it was the e ican varship that first carried out hostile
action and this clain is vholly contrary to America's claim, If
both insist on stressing their claim, it is believed that the
only way to settle the claim will be by arned action. But it is
rather hasty to regard that ierica will enter the war because of
this incident.
According to an unnouncenent Hade by the White House, Presi-
dent Roosevelt will nake a radio broadcast on Sept. 1l, and talk
on an important Matter. In view of the fact that this anounce-
mont was made irrediately after the announcement of the German
Govern ent staterent, it is believed that he will talk on the USS
Greer incident.
According to e dispatch fran Hyde Park, Tirs. Sara Roosevelt,
the roteer of President Roosevelt, dicd on Sept. 7, at the Presi-
dent's Hyde Park residen ce. Sho was Ss years old. Hence, the
president's radic broadeast has becn postponcd to Sept. 1l.
Accordine to & dispetch Prom Rome, Editor Cayda published
the following editorial in re ard to the intentions of England
and Aerica: Through the discussion between President Roosevelt
and Pronier Churchill at sea, England and Arterica have set up thir
plan and it has become obvious that thcy are trying to aggravate
the war and is hoping to strongthen the anti-Axis array by luring
the other nations inte the war. Consequently, England and Ameri-
da aro not thinking of aicing Soviet Ruseie or Chungking, but are
thinking of utilizing the resources end nan-power of Soviet Russia
and Chungking aga nst Gurrany in Europe and against Japan in East
Asia. Besides, England America are t rying to lure Portugal and
Turkey into the wer to proteet theniselves fror the threat of the
Axis povers. England and Aicrica are trying to aggravate the war

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
page2
while perfecting their war preparation and attack when the Axis
power's strength has ebbed considerably end gain an easy victory.
Vice-Admiral Eiciki Katagiri, who had been serving at sea,
returned to Tokyo today at 9 a. and immediately called on the
Emperor to make his renort.
The London conomist, in its issue of September 5, cormented
upon Japan's war materials supply and drew the attention of the
public by stating that Janan is the only power in the world with
a well perfected econoic strength and that Japan has the capacity
and strength to eet any erergency need of war naterials in time
of war, thus adionishing the nation not to regard Japan's econo-
nic strength lightly.
Manchoukuo's first five year agricultural plan, which was
started in 1937, will be conpleted thas year. Hence, Hanchoukuo
is planning its second five year plan.
According to a dispatch from Peking, the harvest, this year,
has already been ccmpleted and has been very good.
Sone Lind of Japanese-lanchoukuoan agricultural comittee
held its neetin today to discuss problens in regard to increasing
the production of focd-stuffs.
The Emperor yesterday sent a message of congratulation to
Brazil. Yesterday vas Brazil's Independence Day.
146 Japanese esterd. returned to Iobe fron Dutch East In-
dies and British Borneo and they stated, as follows: There are
still about one thousand and several hundred Jupanese in British
Borneo, and the evacuation of the Chinese is also large. These
Chinese are evacuating because of the British freezing act and are
very dissatisfiod with Britain's polocy. Besides, the natives
of Borneo, too, are experiencing a hard time due to the rise in
prices and are feeling that Brittn cammot be relied upon. Since
Britain is taking as ruch war :ateriels as possible and is not
giving the natives the naterials necessary for every day life,
anti-British sent irent is beccming stronger.
The co mercial representative of the anking Goernment in
Fronch Indo-China yesterday arrived at Haneda air port to make
arrangenent with the Jupanese Governnent.
According to a dispatch fron Shanghai, the cormander of the
British Far Eastern force issued an ofricial announcerent on Sept.
5th. According to it, Scotish and Indian troops are ncv stationed

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
Page #3
in Singapore, besides the Australian troops. The Indian troops,
it is believed will later be stationed in the jungle regions of
Malay and already several thousand reportedly have been dispatched.
According to an announcenent ade by German authorities on
Septermber 6, the Gerrans conducted long distance firing against
Leningrad on September 5 and successfully destroyed an electrical
plant. Even the UP dispatch fron London admitted the complete en-
circlement of Leningrad. According to another dispatch, the German
air force is intensifying its raid on Odessa and is causing con-
siderable danages.
According to a dispatch fron Harbin, the Soviet Government
is trying its best to enlist the services of the White Russians
in Hanchoukuo with clever propaganda.
According to a dispatch from Rone, Editor Gyda of Journale
'd Italia published an editorial in yesterday's issue, claiming
the ultimate victory of the Axis powers.
According to a dispatch fron Ankara, the British Anbassador
to Turkey ................ and the American Anbassador to Turkey
....... held a long conference with the Turkish foreign
minister on Septeiber 6. The natter discussion was not revealed
but it is believed t'at the American and the British ambassadors
tried to lure Turkey to side with England and Aierica.
News of the Week: (Review of the past week)
Fews of Sentenber 1 being the second anniversary of the
estebl sirent of Vational Service Day and the 18th anniversary of
the great Kvanto cisaster.
Hews of Col. Habuchi's tallk on Sept.1.
Hews of the creation of the hir Defense and the National
Defense Bureaus on Sept. 5t .
Lews of the discussion between civilian and Government
Officials on the regulation portainin to the control of industrial
organizations, sponsored by the Hational Service Society on Sept.3.
Hews of the important rules of the National Service
youths organizations adopted on September 4.
News of the transfer of Vice-Adniral Seiichi Ito on
September 1.
Hews of the return of Lt. Gen. Suwiita on Septenber 1.
lews of the achieve ents of the Japanese troops during
the past week.
ews of the evacuation of the Japa ese troops from
Foochow on September 5.
Conic talk.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.98)
ge4
Talk by (name indistinct, but a nerber of the House of Com-
mons) on how the peope are cooperating in Japan: The talk was
a very short one, lasting about seven ninutes. He opened his talk
by relating how happy he felt when he saw the flag of Japan in a
foreign country and stated that this feeling must be cormon with
all the Japanese resicing abroad. Then, he mentioned how the
people in Japan are cooperating in this national emergency and
related his experience while travelling through the northern sec-
tion of Japan, and this experience of his and nothing to do with
national ccoperation. His experience was how a group of total
strangers, who were acco panying a bride-elect to her new home,
urged hin to partake ci the food that they had brought along, in
fact to all the occupants of the special car, and how the condue-
tor, who had co e to collect the fare, postponed the perforance
of his duty until the end of the party. This, to the speaker, was
nationel ccoperation.
Toorr ov's procra.
Japanese national anthem.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/9/41
Frequency 15,I60 Kilocycles.
Japanese music.
News:
Due to the restoration of friendly relations with French
Indo-China, our covernment has decided to send an envoy extraordinary
and ambassador plenipotentiary. The appointment has fallen on Kenkichi
Yoshizawa, formerly foreign minister. His appointment ceremony will be
held tomorrow. At the same time, Tanichiro Yoshida, presently Japanese-
Consul-Goneral at Hanoi, and Iwataro Uchiyama have been named as members
of Yoshizawa's suite. Yoshizava's dutics will be to carry on diplomatic
negotiations with the Fronch Indo-China authorities, coordinate the
Japanese official organs and activitics in French Indo-China and facili-
tate the cooperation between the Japanose high command of tho exped:tion-
ary force and tho Japaneso govornment organs on the spot. Personal
history of Yoshizawa--Was acting Japaneso consul-goneralfor Honolulu in
1925. Was Japaneso ambassador to Francc in 1929. Was forcign minister
of Inukui's cab not just after tho Lianchurian incident. Was sent as
spocial onvoy of Japan to Dutch East Indies in 1940.
Regulations to proserve the clcctric power of the nation
wore adoptcd at yestorday's cabinet meoting. At today's cabinet meot-
ing, it was decided to commundoer tho Nippon Hassoiden Kabushiki Kaisha
and tho Tohoku Shinko Kabushiki Kaisha, two great cloctric companios of
Japan. Tho opinions of tvo grcat industrial figures were rovealed and
both advocatcd the action taken by the government.
Our Japaneno troops started a now drive against the Chincso
59th and lo00th Divisions concentrated in the mountainous region cast of
Gakushu in Hunan Province on tho morning of September 7. By evening of
that same day, our troops complcted their encirclemont of tho Chinese
troops.
According to a dispatch from Kaifu, the achievcment of
our troops in Honan Province is as follows:
109 battlcs against 28,876 cnemy troops. Killed 392 oncmics. Captured
77 onomy troops and numerous arms and ammunition.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, a German authority,
in an intorviow i th newspaper reportors yesterday, refuted the American
government's statement in regard to the USs GREER incident, as foliows:
There are many doubtful points as to whether the opinion of the American
government was based on the report of the conmandor of the USs GREER.
Tho Gernan government:s view in reply to this is a contontion based on
the official report of the commander of the Gorman U-Boat. That is, tho
German U-Boat wms first grectod vith dopth bombs rolcased by tho Amcrican
destroyer and after boing pursucd for two hours, tho Gorman U-Doat finally
-1.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
fired in solf-dofensc. According to our opinion, tho American govorn-
mont's opinion in rogard to tho GRLER incidont is part of her propaganda
to draw Amorican closer intotho war. At this time, we should recall
tho impartial attitude of Germany during tho ...... incidont and tho
oxaggorated roport of Americu during tho Robin Moor incident. Thero
is not a singlo Gorman who is hoping that war will bfeak out botween
Amorica and Germany, but Sccrctary of Navy Knox, for cxample, has made
statements as though hoping for tho outbroak of war. In conncction
with Britain's attack on Iran and hor strongthening of collaboration
vith Soviot Russia, indignation among the Amoricans appoars to have in-
croasod, and the Amorican government is attompting to turn this indig
nation toward the USS GREER incident.
According to a dispatch from Eno Haguc, Japaneso Ambass-
ador to GermanyOshima, accompanicd by his staff menbers, visited Tho
H aguo on September 9 and is expected to cali on tho Gcrman authorities
there
According to a dispatch from Ankara, Japancso Anbassador
to Turkey Tadashi Kurihara is slatcd to loave Ankara shortly for Borlin
to hold consultations with inbassador Oshima.
According to a dispatch from London, the Britich Air
Ministry announced yesterday the capture of a German submarine by a
British plane on the tlantic. This announccment did not indicatc whon
and whero this capture was nade. Tho opinion of some circles is that
this may be the submarine which clashed vith the USS GREER.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the Deportment
of Sta to yc stcrday announced tho sinking of an American frcighter, as
follos: According to a dispatch reccived by tho Department of Stato, the
STIEL SEAFARER, an Aaorican frei ghter, on Soptomber 7 was attacked by an
unidontified plane on the Red Soa and sunk, but allits crow nembers are
safc.
According to a dispatch fron Ankara rolayod fron Italy,
Great Britain is plotting to ostablish an independent nation, callod
Kurdistan, in the region where tho borders of Turkey, Iraq and Iran mect
and is agitating the nativosof thit rugion to this effect. Her aim is
to placo this now nation under hor control and uso it to protcct her sil
ficlds.
According to a special dispatch fron London, tho British
covornmont reportodly mado now donands to the Iranian covernmont on
Soptember 5, roguosting hor to oxpol all Gornans, regardlcss of thoir
diplomatic or businoss conncction, from Iran and thrcatoning to ostablish
a new covornmont in Iran if this requost is not accopted.
According to a special communiquo issucd by tho Gernan
High Cormand on Soptombor 8, Gorman mechanized troops, supportod by tho.
Gorman air forco, on Soptember 7 narchod along tho Nova Rivor, flovi ng
oast of Loningrad, and captured Schlussolburg. Tho fallof Schlussclburc
-2-

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.97)
now places Loningrad complctoly within the oncirclonent of tho Gorman
troops. Furthormoro, according to another roport, a part of the Gorman
troops oncircling Loningrad reportodly arc naking proparations to march
soutlward tovward Moscoy, whilc another German dotachmont in tho noighbor-
hood of Kiev is making prcparations to march northward toward Moscow, thus
forning a pincer movemont.
According to a conmuniquo issucd by the Gornan High Conmand
on September 8, a strong Gernan air force on tho night of Soptenber 7
raidod mainland England and bonbed the military facilities at the mouth
of tho River Hunber, bosides bombing the air fields and harbor facilitics
along tho east coast. Furthormore, Gornan torpodo beats attacked a
strong convoy of British ships off thc t.... coast of England and
destroyod 5 ships, totaling 13,500 tons. Again, tho total number of
British ships sunk by tho Gorman air forco on Soptoniber 7 wns 3, totaling
12,Ooo tons. On thc other hand, the British air force raided Berlin
fron the 7th to 8th of Septoiber and dropped bonbs at sevoral places with-
in tho city. On Soptomber 9, bombs were dropped near tho Japanese embassy,
but causod no serious danages. Of tho nino British planes shot dovm.
three were shot down in the sky over Berlin. According to the cormunique
of tho British Air Linistry, the British nir forco lost tvonty bombers
and one fighting planc in this raid.
Conment on current events:
Topic "The Econonic Condition in Manchouluo":
The talk centered around Minchouluo's first five year plan, which is in
its last stage this yoar. He mentioned the groat progross made in the
developnent of Manchoukuo's heavy industrios as well as in tho agricultural
ficlds, stating that about 90 per cent of the expocted rosults have bocn
achioved. With the completion of this first five year plan, he stated
that Manchoukuo is prepared to carry out its sccond fivo year plan and
strengthon her positi on in East Asia allthe nore.
Japanoso music.
Childron's hour:
Threo conpositions written by students of Kokumin Gakko
(olomentary school) were read. The first pertained to the joy with which
the brothors and sisters welcomed the birth of a new nember into the
frmily. Tho sccond portained to tho formation of a youths' organization,
how sho, tho writer of tho conposition, was clocted loador of her group
and how sho is striving to guido those under hor into boconing good
Japanoso. Tho third portained to how they were holping in tho planting
of crops.
Tonorrow's progren.
-3-

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, Japan.
August 3, 1941.
NO. 5826
SUBJECT: JAPANESE SHORT-WAVE PROGRAMS FOR OCTOBER, 1941
Bivision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT301941
File
Department of State
RIVISION OF
NOTENTIOEN OOEUNCATIONS
10/29/46CT 88 1941
894.76/58
17
AAIMENT OF S
3
COMNINGCATIN
AN 0
RECEIVEL
19412
DNAISCNO
Coordinator
of dnfo mations
office. Fdecw.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
OCT 3 1 1941
FILED
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
instruction of August 15, 1940 (File No. 894.76/17),
requesting copies of the "Overseas Broádcast" published
by the Nippon Hoso Kyokai (The Broadcasting Corporation
of Japan), and to Despatch No. 173 dated March 28, 1941,
PS/LD
from the Tokyo Consulate General, subject: "Japan
Overseas Broadcasting".
There

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
1/
There are attached hereto nine copies of "Radio
Tokyo", now issued in place of "Overseas Broadcast",
for the month of October, 1941. It is suggested that
five copies be forwarded to the Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce while four copies may be re-
tained by the Department.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambasgador:
Nae Piea
Frank S. Williams,
Commercial Attache.
Enclosure:
1 - as stated.
File No. 874
CHB:mB
Distribution:
Original and 2 copies to Department
1 copy to Division of Commercial Affairs

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 63
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.97)
Corporation of Japan sends out short-wave transmissions as indicated by the
chart.
missions are pointed to 13 parts of the globe, the total transmission time amounting
our a day in 16 languages. This means virtually that Japan's short-wave broadcasts cover
entire world.
Spocial attention of the listeners is called to the fact that occasional changes in frequencies
other technical details may be made inevitably upon the change of seasons. Please note
bulletin each month, never taking it for granted.
Reports on your reception of, and reaction to, our programmes are solicited most cagerly.
The communications should be addressed to the
Foreign Department
Identification Signal
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broadcasting Corporation of Japan)
Tokyo, Japan
HIGHLIGHTS IN OCTOBER PROGRAMMES
SBRIALS AND REGULAR FEA.
Personal Glimpse Series
by Sizuo Nomura and member of
Tokyo Sketch Series
the Kyoto Nisei Club.
TURES:
I Quiz America Series
(To be broadcast for the Pacific Coast
The following items are broadcast
To be broadeast for the Eastern
of North .America  Hawaii on 9th
regularly every month. edited and
Districts of North America and
and for China and the South Seas
produced by the Foreign D)epartment
the Pacific Coust of North 1merica
on toth of Oct.)
of the Broadcasting Corporation of
OF NEWS INTEREST:
Student Life in Japan
Japan.
by Roy Smith, Lecturer at the
Japan Culture Series
by Scizyun Yamasaki and
Kobe College of Commerce.
To be broadcast at 8 : 25 p m. (New
Takanobu Murohuse
(To be broadcast for the Pacific
York & Honoiulu), 9: 15 p m. (San
CULTURAL:
Coast of North America
Francisco) on Friday; 8: 50 p.m.
The Race History of Japan
Hawaii on 23rd of Oct.)
(Sydney & Melbournc). 9: o0 p.m.
by Shuko Sirayanagi
MUSIC :
(Singapore & Kabul). 9: 30p m
Introduction to the Commentary
(Colombo εr Bombay). 9: 40 p.m.
Women Authors of Japan with
For the Eastern Districts of
(Manila), 9: 45 p.m. (Tcheran
explanations on individual works
North America & Europe
London), 10: 20 p.m. (11'cllington).
"The Hospital Ship" and others
Orchestra
10: 30p.m. (Rangoon. Aden
For NISEI :
Japan Broadcasting Symphony
Baghdad) on Saturday
Orchestra
"Let's Tune In" Hour for the
1) Wooden and Bamboo Wares
(Chuo Symphony Orchestra
presented by the Trade
Pacific Coast of North America at
Tokyo Broadcasting Orchestra
Bureau of the Ministry of
9: 25 p.m. every Tuesday, San Fran-
Japan Young Men's Sympho-
Commerce and Industry
cisco Time.
ny Orchestra
2) Porcelain Ware
For YOUNG BOYS & GIRLS:
Light Music
3) Japan's Native Art-Crafts
Children's Hour for the Pacific Coust
New Order Rhythm Orchestra
by Yukiti Kodera
of North America at 9. 25 p.m. every
Toho Light Music Orchestra
History of Japan Series
Tuesday, San Francisco Time.
Bikyo Orchestra
To be broadcast at 8 : 25 p.m. (New
Orquesta Rosa
From OSAKA STUDIO:
York) and 9: 25 p.m. (San Fran-
Brass Band
Round Table Talk : " My Travel
cisco) on 2nd and 4th Saturdays.
Milltary Band
Glimpse of Japan Series
Experiences in Kyoto" presented
Navy Band
(For the Pacific Coast of North
America)
Light Music
JAPANESE CLASSICS
Sakurai and His Band
RENDERED BY 8 HARPS
Awaya and Her Band
(m July 20 (JAPAN TINE.
Listomers in th Paif Cout uf
(For Hawaii)
I.S.1. and in mamy oth'r parts
Brass Band
of th woorld wrre delighled by th
úuaintnss of Japamrer cLasnical
Tokyo Symphonic Brass Band
hary music ant on th-nir. Ih
vilotiome, were ndri b
Notice :
(onbimation of eighe harps candd
For the date and the hour of the
four fhutes. This broadk asd was
Axand simaitamrously over nalion.
above broadcast, please listen in to
widh hoopup in Japan.
"the weekly advance notice" bro-
adcast your Friday, every week.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.92)
For Southwestern A sia
Tokyo
0:00 - 1:55 a.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
15:00-16:55
Kabul
8:00- 9:55 p.m. (Previous day)
JZI
9,535 kc/s
31.46 m.
Colombo, Bombay, Calcutta (IST)
or JZK
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
8:30-10:25 p.m. (Previous dáy)
Rangoon
9:30—11:25 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZJ
JZJ or JZK
0:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
Opening Announcement
0:05,
News in Barmese
News in Hindustani
Kabul
8.05 p.m. (Previous day)
Colombo. Bombay, Calcutta
8:35 p.m. (Previous day)
Rangoon 9.35 p.m. (
”
0:20
Report (every Tuesday & Thurs.
Report (every Tuesday. Thursday
day), Talk (every Wednesday) in
& Saturday). Talk (every Wednes-
Burmese or Music
day) in Hindustani or Music
0:30
Music
Music
0:45
News in English
Kabul
8:45 p.m. (Previous day)
Colombo, Bombay, Calcutta
9:15 p.m. (Previous day)
Rangoon 10:15 p.m. (
”
1:00
Report (every Thursday & Satur-
day). Weekly Programme Notice
(every Saturday). Talk (every
Same as for JZJ
Sunday) or Music
1:15
News in Japanese
1:35
Report or Talk in Japanese
1:45
Weekly Programme Notice in
Japanese or Music
Close Down
Close Down
1   9    
2220321 a 0 e24 19a00 o 37.ve er1
2 xi
122∠22
2222<.3090.2
322230 9922 25
212222222220- 1
1 31 4
2202.002
2
"a it Psurz. z arr
1
5221  JZK  J21  
302 309  a 3

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.72)
For Southwestern A sia
Srigodofan
19 9.35
1 38
, = 3 3
e - 30
8
0
8
aluing
2
For Near East
J2
2
-1040J2I
  ()
 .. ()
( 
.  () 
.() 
()

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
For Near East
Tokyo
2:00— 3:30 a.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
17:00—18:30
Ankara
7:00— 8:30 p.m. (Previous day)
JZI
9,535 kc/s
31.46 m.
Mecca, Aden, Baghdad
or JZK
15,160kc/s
19.79 m.
8:00— 9:30 p.m. (Previous day)
Teheran
8:30—10:00 p.m.(
Tokyo
JZJ & JZI or JZK
2:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
2:05
News in French
Ankara
7:05 p.m. (Previous day)
Mecca. Aden. Baghdad
8:05
Teheran
8.35
2:20
Report (every Monday, Wednesday & Friday). Weekly Pro.
gramme Notice (every Saturday) in French or Music
2:30
Music
2:40
News & Report in Arabic (every Tuesday. Thursday &
Ankara
7:40 p.m (Previous day)
Saturday) or Music
Mecca. Aden. Baghdad
8:40
Teheran
9.10
2:55
Music
3:00
News in English
Ankara
8:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Mecca, Aden. Baghdad
9.00
Teheran
9.30
3:15
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday). Talk (every
Sunday) in English or Music
3:25
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
3:30
Close Down
LES EMISSIONS EN LANGUE FRANCAISE A DESTINATION DE
L'EUROPE, DU PROCHE-ORIENT ET DES PAYS
DES MERS DU SUD
L
A Radio-Tokio fait des émissions internationales pendant 41 heures (y compris les émissions simultanées) par jour et en
16 langues différentes.
Voici les postes d'émission, les heures de transmission et les programmes des émissions en langue française à destina-
tion de l'Europe, du Proche-Orient et des pays des Mers du Sud.
A DESTINATION DU PROCHE-ORIENT
Heures de transmission :
Postes d'émission
Heure de Tokio:
2 h.00 - 3 h. 30
JZJ
11,800 kc/s (25 m. 42)
Heure d'Ankara:
19 h. 00--20 h. 30 (jour précédent)
JZI
9.535 kc/s (31 m. 46)
Heure d'Aden, de Bagdad, et de la Mecque:
20 h. 00—21 h. 30 (jour précédent)
ou JZK
15.160 kc/s (19 m. 79)
Heure de Téhéran: 20 h. 30—22 h. 00(
”
Heure de Tokio
2h.00
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions
2h.05
Informations en français
Ankara
19 h. 05 (jour préoédent)
Aden. Bagdad. Mecque
20 h.05 (
Tébéran
20 h. 85 (
2 h.20
Récits historiques (lundi), chronique hebdomadaire (mer-
credi), chronique de la vie japonaise (vendredi), causerie et
annonce du programme de la semaine suivante (samedi)
en français, ou musique
2h.40
Informations en arabe ou musique
Ankara
19 h. 40 (jour préoédent)
Aden, Bagdad, Mecque 20 h. 40 (
Téhéran
21 h. 10 (
9
2h.50
Musique
8h.00
Informations en anglais
Ankara
20 h. 00 (jour préoédent)
Aden. Bagdad, Meoque 21 h. 00 (
Tébéran
21 h.80(
Sh.15
Causerie, annonce du programme de la semaine suivante en
anglade, ou musique
Quaiques mots pour la clêture des émissions, hymne national
da Jspon : le Kimigayo
Cléture des émissions

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
For Europe
HALLO! HIER SPRICHT TOKIO!
Sendezeit: 20:00-23:30 Uhr MFZ
Sender, ihre Wellenlänge und Frequenz:
(4.00–7.30 Uhr morgens am folgenden Tage
JZJ auf 25.42 m
11 800 kHz
japanischer Zeit)
JLG 2 auf 31.57 m
9 505 kI1z
JLG+ auf 19.86 m
15 105 kIHz
(Je nach Jahreszeiten und atmosphärischen Verhältnissen verändern wir unsere Sender von Zeit zu Zeit.
Näheres darüber
geben wir bei der Ansage bekannt).
Unsere Sendungen für Europa.
in Ostasien. sondern auch über die japanischen Pressestimmen
Die Japanische Rundfunk-Gesellschaft führt Übersee-
zu wichtigen weltpolitischen Geschehnissen. Wir möchten Sie
Sendungen in 13 Richtungen durch. Die gesante Sendezeit
ausserdem auf unserm Vortragsdienst aufmerksam machen.
beträgt täglich 41 Stunden, wobei 16 Sprachen gebraucht,
Im oben angegebenen Programm finden Sie zwei verschiedene
werden. Das Programm für Europa gestaltet sich folgender-
Bezeichnungen: Vorträge und Sondervorträge. Unter
Vorträgen sind diejenigen gemeint. die von in Japan lebenden
20:00 Uhr MEZ (4:00 Uhr am folgenden Tage japanischer
massen :
Deutschen oder deutschen Besuchern oder auch deutsch
Zeit) Ansage.
sprechenden Japanern über besondere kulturelle und sonstige
20:05
Nachrichtendienst in japanischer Sprache.
Themen gehalten werden. Dagegen werden die Sonder-
20:25
Vorträge in japanischer Sprache oder musikalische
vorträge von den Mitarbeitern unserer Gesellschaft selbst
Darbietungen.
verfasst. Sie behandeln hauptsächlich aktuelle Probleme. aber
20:40
Nachrichtendienst in deutscher Sprache.
auch kulturelle Themata. Am Donnerstag bringen wir
20:55
Sondervorträge (am Montag, Dienstag und Donners-
gewöhnlich Serienvorträge über kulturelle Themen. um Ihnen
tag), Vorträge (am Mittwoch) in deutscher Sprache
umfassendere Kenntnisse über unsere Kultur zu vermitteln.
oder musikalische Darbietungen.
Nicht zuletzt möchten wir auch auf unsere musikalischen
21:05
Musikalische Darbietungen.
Darbietungen hinweisen. Ausser spezifisch japanischer Musik
21:25
Musikalische Darbietungen oder Ankündigung der Pro
hören Sie auch fast jeden Tag curopaische Musik, die jedoch
gramme für die folgende Woche in deutscher Sprache
zum grossen Teil von japanischen Künstlern ausgeführt wird.
(am Freitag).
Uber deren Autfassung bezw, Wiedergabe der abendländi-
21:35
Nachrichtendienst in italienischer Spra he.
schen Meisterwerke der Tonkunst erhalten wir seit Jahren
21:50
Sondervorträge, Vorträge oder Ankündigung der l'ro-
ständig anerkennende Zuschriften von dortigen Hörern. Wie
oben angegeben, verkünden wir an jedem Freitag um 21.25
gramme für die folgende Wo he m italienischer
Uhr das Programm der folgenden Woche im voraus.
Sprache (am Freitag).
Zum Sehluss möchten wir uns an unsere Hörer mit einer
22:00
Musikalische Darbietungen.
Bitte wenden. Wir haben nämlich grosses Interesse dafür,
22:30
Nachrichtendienst in englischer Sprache durch den
wie unsere Sendungen von Ihnen empfangen werden, ob
ersten Sender und gleichzeitig in französischer Sprache
unsere Programme Ihnen gefallen usw Wir sind daher stets
durch den zweiten Sender.
sehr dankbar für Berichte und Anregungen Ihrerseits und
22:45
Sondervorträge, Vorträge, Ankündigung der Programme
bitten Sie. möglichst ausführlich Ihre Empfangsverhältnisse
in englischer Sprache oder musikalische Darbietungen
anzugeben, besonders die Namen unserer Sender. Wellenlänge,
durch den ersten Sender und gleichzeitig Sondervor-
Frequenz, Sendezeit, Inhalt der Sendung usw. Unsere Adresse
träge, Vorträge, Ankündigung der Programme in
finden Sie unten angegeben.
französischer Sprache oder musikalische Darbietungen
Vorliegende Druckschrift, welche monatlich erscheint. erhält
durch den zweiten Sender.
jeder auf Verlangen kostenlos zugesandt.
22:55
Musikalische Darbietungen.
23:25
Absage und Nationalhymne.
23:30 Ende durch Sendezeichen.
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI, Kokusaibu,
Den Mittelpunkt der Sendungen bildet also der Nachrich-
Uchisaiwai-cho, Kojimachi, TOKIO.
tandienst, der in jeder Sprache 15 Minuten lang durchgeführt
(Auslandsabteilung der Japanischen Rundfunk-
wird. Sie hören darin nicht nur von den wichtigen Ereignissen
Gesellschatt. Tokio).
A DESTINATION DE L'EUROPE
Heures de transmission :
Postes d'émission: J. Z. J. 11,800 kc/s (25m. 42)
Heure de Tokio :
4h.00- 7h. 30.
Heure de Paris :
19h.00-22h. 30 (jour précédent)
Houre de Tokio
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions.
Informations en japonais.
Informations spéciales, causerie en japonais ou musique.
Informations en allemand.
pformations spéciales, causerie en allemand ou musique.
ons en italien.
émone spéciales, causerie en italien, ou musique.
Paris
21h.80
(jour préoédent)
lons, hymse matiomal da Japom: le Kimigayo.

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
For Europe
LA NOSTRA TRASMISSIONE PER L'EUROPA
TRASMISSIONI IN LINGUA ITALIANA
Q
UESTO ISTITUTO RADIOTRASMISSIONI DEL
Trasmissione per l'Europa :
GIAPPONE sta trasmettendo giornalmente, per l'Europa.
JZJ 11.800 kilocicli 25.42 metri.
in lingua italiana, quale un reparto delle sue attività per l'estero
JI.G2 9.505 kilocicli 31.57 metri.
che vengono fatte in 13 direzioni in 16 varie lingue per la
Oppure
JL G4 15.105 kilocicli 19.86 metri.
durata di 41 ore ogni giornc. L'ora delle trasimissioni, le
Orario: Ora del Giappone 4.00-7.30
lunghezze delle onde elettriche. il contenuto de! programma
Ora in Italia 20.00-23.30 del giorno precedente.
ecc. del reparto italiano sono come indicati qui sotto.
Programma del reparto italiano:
Queste radiotrasmissioni vengono fatte per dare, non solo
Dalle 21.35 (ore italiane)
le ultime notizie esatte degli avvenimenti nell'attuale situazione
Notiziario degli avvenimenti.
Dalle 21.50 (ore italiane)
mondiale, ma anche schiarimenti su varì campi della cultura
Commenti d'attualità: (dom. lun. mart. mere.)
giapponese. Quindi questo Istituto prega vivamente i radio-
Conferenza: (giov.)
ascoltatori di volergli inviare giudizi cec. di qualsiasi genere
Annunzio del programma della settimana seguente: (ven.)
sulle trasmissioni. L'indirizzo è
Ora pei bimbi: (sab.)
Dalle 22.00 (ore italiane)
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
Conversazioni, musica ed altri trattenimenti:
(Sezione Estero)
Oltre a ciò vi sono. nelle trasmissioni per l'Europa. Notiziari
Tokio, Giappone.
degli avvenimenti, Commenti d'attualità, Conferenze, Musica
ecc. in giapponese, tedesco, francese e inglese.
Qui riproduciamo il programma mensile, di cui ogni venerdì
verrà annunciata la parte della settimana seguente.
PROGRAMMA DELLE
11 sab
Nouziario degli avvenimenti:
22 mere Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
TRASMISSIONI
Ora pes bimbi) " Spasente passeri
Commento d'attualità :
OTTOBRE 1941
Letturao Sulla Vita del prete Niciren
(Cacasci):
(Teatro. musica) Teatri di Tokio in
ottobre
1'mere. Notiziario degli  veniment.
(1221 1281).
23 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento dattualità:
12 dom. Notizario degli avvenimenti;
(Conferenza) 1 tessuti di seta del
(Teatro. musica) Sull'oratoria teatrale
Commento dattualità;
Grappone. Ocumura Sacuzoh;
Coh-sciacu.
(Racc onto) Episodio patriottico della
(Cultura. folklore) Sullo scrittore
2 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti:
guerra in Cina.
Natsume Soh-seki (morto 1916).
(Conferenza) Le mie impressioni su
13 lun. Notiziario degli av venimenti;
24 ven.
Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità:
Predappio, On. Yamamoto Sane-
Annunzio programma settimanale;
hico;
(Giappone d'oggi) L'industria elettrica
(Note sul calendario) La festa dei
(Cultura, folklore) La vita del roman-
in Manciuria.
cavalli militari.
ziere Takizawa Bakin (1767 1848).
14 mart. Notiziario degi avvenimenti:
25 sab. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
3 ven. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Commento d'attualità;
(Ora pei bimbi) " Il canarino che ha
Annunzio programma settimanale:
(Note sul calendario) No-waki. il
dimenticato il canto" (Uta o was-
(Note sul calendario) Insetti canori
vento autunnale.
sureta canaria);
nella letteratura e nella musica
15 mere. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Lettura) L'eroe Catoh Kiyomassa
giapponese.
Commento d'attualità;
(1562-1611).
4 sab.
Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Teatro. musica) Chiacchiere sul
26 don. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Ora pei bimbi) "La luna piena
Manzai, dialoghi umoristici.
Commento d'attualità;
(Lettura) L'eroe letterato Uessughi
16 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Racconto) Episodio patriottico della
Kenscin (1530-1578).
(Conferenza) Sullo strumento Coto.
guerra in Cina.
5 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Maestra Yamamuro Ciyo;
27 lun. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Racconto) La sposa di sussuki;
Commento d'attualità;
(Cultura, folklore) Il romanzo;
Satomi Hakken-den
Commento d'attualità ;
leggenda.
17 ven.
Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Giappone d'oggi) Industria nella
6 lun.
Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
Annunzio programma settimanale;
provincia di Gumma.
Commento d'attualità;
(Note sul calendario) Sul tempio
28 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Giappone d'oggi) Cantieri giapponesi.
scintoista Daiginguh d'Isse.
Commento d'attualità;
7 mart. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
18 sab.Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Note sul calendario) Avvenimenti
Commento d'attualità;
(Ora pei bimbi) "I1 piccolo pesci-
principali interni del mese.
(Note sul calendario) La letteratura
vendolo" (Codomo no sacanaya-
29 merc. Notiziario degli avvunimenti;
di sussuki e di oche selvatiche.
san);
Commento d'attualità;
8 merc. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Lettura) Sull'isola di Riuh-kiuh.
(Teatro, musica) Gli attori Hanayaghi
Commento d'attualità;
19 dom. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
e Nizaemon che recitano le parti
(Teatro, musica) Le strumento tsu-
Commento d'attualità;
femminili.
zumi e le sue leggende.
(Racconto) I1 miracolo del tempio
30 giov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Confarenza) Le mie impressioni per-
riov. Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
20 lun.
buddista di Tsubosaca.
Notiziario degli avvenimenti;
(Conferenza) La mia calligrafia
microscopica. Homma Campel;
sonali sui Giappone. Col. Bertoni;
Commento d'attualità;
Cultura, folklore) La divinita' scin-
(Giappone d'oggi) L'agricoltura in
(Cultura, folklore) Hitomaro é Aca
tojeta: Conapira.
Corea.
disiario dogli avvenimenti;
21 mart. Notiziario dogli avvenimenti:

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
For Europe
Tokyo
4:00— 7:30 a.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
19:00-22:30
London, Paris (GMT)
JLG2
9,505 kc/s
31.57 m.
7:00—10:30 p.m.
(Previous day)
or JLG 4
15,105 kc/s
19.86 m.
Berlin (CET)
8:00-11:30
”
Rome (EET)
9:30 p.m.—0:30 a.m. (
Tokyo
JLG2 or JLG4
JZJ
4:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
Opening Announcement
4:05
Newe in Japanese
4:25
”
Report, Talk, Weekly Programme Notice
in Japanese or Music
Berlin
4:40
News in German
8:40 p.m. (Previous day)
4:55
Report (every Tuesday. Wednesday &
Friday) Talk (every Thursday) in Ger-
Same as
man or Music
for JLG 2 or
5:05
Music
JLG 4
5:80
Weekly Programme Notice (every Satur-
day) in German or Music
Rome
5:85
News in Italian
10:35 p.m. (Previous day)
6:50
Report(every Monday, Tuesday Wednes.
day), Talk (every Friday). Weekly
Programme Notice (every Saturday)
in Italian
6:00
Music
Music
London, Paris
6:80
6:45
Report (every Thursday). Weekly Pro.
News in English
Report (every Monday, Wednesday &
News in French
9:30 p.m. (Previous day)
gramme Notice (every Saturday). Talk
Friday), Weekly Programme Notice
(every Sunday) in English or Music
(every Saturday) in French or Music
6:55
Music
Music
7:25
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
7:80
Close Down
Close Down
JorLatin America
Tokyo
8:00 9:30 a.m.
JLG4
15,105 kc's
19.86 m.
GMT
23:00 0:30
Mexico City
5:00 -6:30 p.m. (Previous day)
JZJ
11,800 kc's
25.42 m.
Buenos Aires
7:00-8:30
or J V Z
11,815 kc/s
25.39 m.
Rio de Janeiro
8:00-9:30
”
Tokyo
JLG4 & JZJ or JVZ
8:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
8:05
News in Spanish
Mexico City
5:05 p.m (Previous day)
820
”
Report, Talk in Spanish or Music
Buenose Aires 7:05 p.m (
885
News in Japanese
8:55
”
News in Portuguese
Rio de Janeiro 8.55p.m. (
9.10
”
Report (every Monday). Talk (every Saturday) in
”
Portuguese or music
9.25
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
9:90
Close Down
”
Jor South America
Tokyo
6:00 — 7:00 p.m.
GMT
9:00—10:00
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
Buenos Aires
5:00— 6:00 a.m.
Rio de Janeiro
6:00— 7:00
Tokyo
JZJ
peming Amnouncement.
Buenos Aires
5:35 a.m.
Rio de Jenelro
6:45

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
JorLatin America
Ampliación de Nuestra Trasmisión
Se ha estado llevando a cabo desde el comienzo del presente año una gran ampliación de nuestra
trasmisión a ultramar, incluso la transmisión a Sudamérica.
Estamos trasmitiendo a trece direcciones durante cuarenta y una horas al dia, empleando diecisei
idiomas inclusive el español y el portugués.
Lamentamos no disponer todavia de los detalles del programa y nos permitimos llamar la atención
sobre las horas en que transmitiremos.
Forman parte de este número los correspondientes al mes de abril.
Trasmision a la America Latina :
Trasmision a Sudamerica :
Ciudad de Mexico :
Buenos Aires : de 5.00 a 6.00 a.m
de 5.00 a 5.30 p.m. del lia anterior
Rio de Janeiro : de 6.00 a 7.00 am.
Buenos Aires :
de 8.00 a 8.30 p.m. del dia anterior
Rio de Janeiro :
de 8.00 a 9.30 p.m. del dia anterior
6.00 a.m. Apertura
8.00 a.m. Apertura
6.05
Noticias en español
8.05
Noticias en español
6.25
Observaciones, conferencia o música
8.20
Observaciones. conferencia en español o
6.35
Noticias en español
música
5.45
Noticias en portugués
8.35
Noticias en japonés
6.55
Anuncio de cierre. Himno nacional
8.55
Noticias en portugués
7.00
Cierre
”
9.10
Observaciones, conferencia en portugués o
música
9.25
Anuncio de cierre Himno nacional
9.30
Cierre
LL. G 4 15105 kiloo los. 19.86 metros
J2J 11.800 tiociolos, 25.42 metros
JZJ 11 800 kiloca dos 25 42 metros o
JV Z 11 S15 kilocclos. 25 59 metros
Caros ouvintes das Américas Central e do Sul:
A
RADiO Tóquio do Japão que está fazendo suas transmissões diárias para essa direção, péde-Ihes a
gentilesa de ouvirem as irradiações desta Emissora e enviarem as suas impressões para o seguinte
endereço :
Departmento Internacional--Nippon Hoso Kyokai—Tokyo
O nosso programa é o seguinte :
Para as Américas Central e do Sul :
Para a América do Sul :
Hora japonesa, das 8,00 às 9,30
Hora japonesa, das 18,00 às 19,00
Hora brasileira, das 20,00 às 21,30 (dia anterior)
Hora brasileira, das 6,00 às 7,00
Hora mexicana, das 17,00 às 18,30 (idem)
Hora argentina, das 5,00 às 6,00
Hora argentina, das 19,00 às 20,30 (idem)
JLG4—15.105 quilociclos—19 metros e
86 centimetros
JZJ —11.800 quilociclos—25 metros e
IZJ—11.800 quilociclos—25 metros e 42 centimetros
42 centimetros ou
JVZ —11.815 quilociclos -25 metros e
39 centimetros
Ordem das irradiações (hora japonesa)
Ordem das irradiações (hora japonesa)
8,00-Abertura
8,05—Noticiario em espanhol e conferência, palestra
18,00—Abertura
em espanhol ou parte musical
18,05—Noticiàrio em japonês e conferência, palestre
8,35—Noticiàrio em japones
parte musical
8,55-Noticiario em português e conferência, palestra
18,35—Noticiàrio em espanhol.
om português ou parte musical
18,45-Noticiàrio em português
9.25—Despedida com o Híno Nacional japonés
18,55—Despedida com o Hino Nacioeal Jg
19,00-Encerramenta.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
For North America
For the Eastern Districts of North America
JLG4
15,105 kc/s
19.86 m.
Tokyo
10:00—12:00 a.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc's
25.42 m.
GMT
1:00— 3:00
or JVZ
11,815 kc's
25.39 m.
New York (EST)
8:00—10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JLG4 & JZJ or JVZ
10:00 a.m.
Opening Announcement
10:05
News in English
New York
8:() p m (Previous day)
10:25
Report (every Tuesday & Friday), Talk (every Thursday &
Saturday) or Japanese History Series (every Sunday)
10:35
Music
11:05
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday' or Music
New York
9:05p.m. (Previous day)
11:25
Newa in Japanese
11:45
Report or Talk in Japanese
11:55
Concluding Announcement - Kimigayo
12:00
Close Down
For the Pacific Coast of North America
JZI
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
121
9.535 kc's
31.46m
Tokyo
0:30 - 3:00 p.m
or JZK
15.160 kc's
19.79m
GMT
3:30  6:00
or JVZ
11.815 kc s
25.39 m.
San Francisco
7:30-10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZJ & JZI, JZK or JVZ
0:30 p.m.
Opening Announcement
0:35
Report in Japanese
0:45
Talk in Japanese
0:55
Music
1:25
Letters from Home, Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
or Music
1:35
News in Japanese
1:55
News in English
San Francisco
55p m (Previous day)
2:15
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Ta!k (every Thursday),
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) or Music
2:25
Let's Tune in" Hour (every Wednesday). Children's Hour
(every Saturday). Japanese History Series (every Sunday)
or Music
2:85
Music
2:55
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
3:00
Close Down
For Hawaii
JZI
9,535 kc/s
31.46 m.
Tokyo
3:30—5:30 p.m.
or JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
6:30—8:30
or JZ K
15,160 kc/s
19.79 m.
Honolulu
8:00—10:00 p.m. (Previous day)
Tokyo
JZI or JZJ or JZK
8:80 p.m.
Opening Announcement
8:55
News in English
Honolulu 8:0p.m. (Previous day)
8:55
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Talk (every Thursday),
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) or "Let's
Tune in" Hour (every Sunday)
Music
News in Japanese
Report in Japansse
Lestees freem Home, Children's Hour or Music
o Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
ceept-Kimigayo

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.97)
For Australia and New Zealand
Tokyo
7:30— 8:25 p.m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s
25.42 m.
GMT
10:30—11:25
Sydney, Melbourne
8:30— 9:25 p.m.
Tokyo
Wellington.
10:00—10:55
JZJ
7:80 p.m.
Opening Announcement
7:85
News 4n English
Sydney, Melbourne 8:35 p.m.
7:50
Report (every Tuesday & Friday). Talk (every Saturday) or
Wellington
10:05 p.m.
Music
8:00
News in Japanese
8:20
Concluding Announcement Kimigayo
8:25
Close Down
ForChina dtSouth Sea
，
Tokyo
8:00 --11:30 p.m.
GMT
11:00-12:30
JVZ
11.815 kc's
25.39m.
Singapore
6:20 - 9:50 p.m.
Java
6:30—10:00
Shanghai, Nanking. Canton, Foochow, Manila
7:00—10:30 p.m.
Tokyo
JVZ
8:00 p m.
Opening Music
8:08
Announcement
8:10
News in Standard Chinese
8:25
Music
8:30
Report in Standard Chinese
8:40
Weekly Programme Notice in Standard Chinese or Music
8:45
News in Cantonese Dialect
9:00
Music
9:03
Report in Cantonese Dialect
9:13
Music
9:15
News in Fukienese Dialect
11:25
Music
9:30
News in Japanese
19:45
Report in Japanese
9:55
”
Talk or Weekly Programme Notice in Japanese
10:20
10:05
"
”
Report in Dutch (every Wednesday) or Music
News in Dutch
Java
8:35 p.m.
10:40
10:50
10:35
”
”
”
Report (every Tuesday & Fridny). Talk (every Saturday) in
News in English
Music
Singapore 8:45
Manila
9.25
English or Music
11:00
Weekly Programme Notice (every Saturday) in English or
Music
11:10
News in Malay
Singapore 9:30 p.m.
11:28
11:20
”
Concluding Announcement  Kimigayo
Music
Java
9:40
11:80
Close Down
KEPADA SEKALIAN PENDENGAR2 YANG TERHORMAT.
Tiapz hari dari Kongsi Penyiara Radio ini, warta berita yang terbaru dan boleh diperchaya tentang keadaam
 16 bahasa asing.
Jalmiwa, kepada Pendengar 2 di Asia Selatan kita menyediakan programma yang mentenangkan sekali didalam
aes Melayu saban malam adanya.
gipala jikalau ada pikiran dan usul lain tentang penyiaran, haraplah diberikan tahu hal itu kepada Kengal
Pemanchar;
J. V. Z.
Nippon.
Pukul;
11.10-11.30 malam
Küloeyele;
11,815
Singapura.
9.30- 9.50
Meter;
25.39
Java.
9.40-10.00
Kokasai-Bu e/o. Nippon Hose Kyekai
Tokyo Nippos.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.96)
For China and the South Seas
JAPANSCHE RADIO OMROEP IN HET
NEDERLANDSCH
de ontvangst, met, indien mogelijk,
poratie zendt dagelijks uit in 13
Naar Shanghai, Canton, Nanking:
bijzonderheden omtrent Uwe ontvangst-
richtingen, in 16 verschillende talen.
Fuchow & Manilla tijd
waaronder Nederlandsch. Omroepuren
per etmaal: 41.
capaciteit.
Uitzendingstijd, golflengte, karakter
Karakter der Uitzending :
van 7.00 tot 10.30nm
Het doel der uitzending is juiste
der uitzending, enz., zijn als volgt:
Nieuws in het Nederlandsch Japansche
berichten te geven omtrent de interna-
Naar China en het zuiden van den
tijd vanaf 10.05 Java tijd vanaf 8.35 nm
tionale situatie, en den luisteraars cen
Stillen Oceaan :
Elken Woensdag avond, na afloop
juist denkbeeld te geven van de Japan-
Zender IV Z. frequentie 11.815 kilocy-
der nieuwsuitzending, eene lezing in de
che cultuur. Wij stellen er derhalve
cles. golflengte 25:39 Meter. Uitzend-
Nederlandsche Taal. Andere avonden
zeer veel prijs op, dat naar onze uit-
ingstijd:
muziek.
zendingen wordi geluisterd. en ver-
Japansche ujd van 8.00 tot 11.30nm.
In dezelfde richting, over hetzelfde
en ander te willen rapporteeren omtrent
zoeken U beleefd van tijd tot rijd cen
For the South Seas
Singapore tjd
Java tjd
6.20
6.30
10.00nm
9.50nm.
in het Chineesch, Japansch. Engelsch &
Maleisch, alsmede muziek, uitgezonden
zendstation JVZ. worden nog nieuws
JZJ
JVW3
11,725 kc s
11.800 kc s
25.59 m.
25.42 m.
Tokyo
GMT
Bangkol.. Saigon. Hanoi
11:30 -14:40
8:30 -11:40 p.m.
(from 10:05 p.m.)
6:30 . 9.40 p.m
Tokyo
JZJ & JVW3
Canton Foochow 7:30 10:40
8:30 p.m.
Report in Standard Chinese
8:40
Music
8:45
”
News in Cantonese Dialect
9:00
”
Music
9:03
”
Report in Cantonese Dialect
9:18
Music
9:15
”
News in Fukienese Dialect
9.25
”
Music
9.30
"
News in Japanese
9:45
Report in Japanese
9:55
Talk in Japanese
10:05
”
Music
10:25
”
Newn in French
10:40
"
Report (every Sunday. Tuesday & Thursday). Talk (Friday)
Bangkok. Saigon. Hanoi 8:25 p.m
in French or Music
10:50
Music
11:00
”
News in Thai
11:20
Report (every day except Monday) or Talk (every Monday)
Bangkok 9.00 p.m.
in Thai
11:80
Music
11:88
Concluding Announcement-Kimigayo
11:40
”
Close Down
Jor China
JOAK 2
870 kc/s
345 m.
Tokyo
10:24—11:15 p.m.
Tokyo
JOAK 2
Canton, Manila
9:24—10:15 p.m.
10:24 p.m
Opening Announcement
10:25
News in English
Music
Canton, Manila 9:25 p.m.
News in Standard Chinese
Music
Concluding Announcement
Close Down
For Japanese Soldiers at the Front
11,815-hc/a
25.39 m.
Tokyo
6:00—8:00 p.m.
Naaking, Canton 5:00—7:00 p.m.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.98)
For the South Seas
A DESTINATION DES PAYS DES MERS DU SUD.
Postes d'émission :
Heures de transmission :
J.Z. J.
11,800 kc/s (25m. 42)
Heure de Tokio: 20h.30-23h.40
J.V.W.3
11,725 kc/s (25m. 59)
Heure de Hanoi, Saigon et Bangkok:
(à partir de 22h.05)
18h.30-21h.40
Heure de Tokio
22h.05
Quelques mots pour l'ouverture des émissions en français.
22h.07
Musique.
22h.25
Informations en français.
Hanoi, Saigon
20h.25
22h.40
Récits historiques (dimanche). chronique hebdomadaire
(mardi), chronique de la vie japonaise (jeudi). causerie
(vendredi), annonce du programme de la semaine suivante
(samedi) en français, ou musique (autres jours)
22h.50
Musique.
23h.00
Informations en thai.
Bangkok
21h.(n)
23h. 10
Musique.
23h.20
Informations spéciales ou causerie en thai
23h. 38
Quelques mots pour la clôture des émissions en thai, hymne
national du Japon: le Kimigayo.
23h.40
Ciôture des émissions.
Nous essayons par ces émissions internationales de faire
Zélande et de I'Australie, de la Chine et des Pays des Mers
connaftre à nos auditeurs les informations exactes et promptes
du Sud. et du Front de l'Armée Impériale.
de la situation actuelle du monde entier, ainsi que tous les
En ce qui concerne les postes d'émission, les fréquences,
domaines de la culture japonaise. Nous vous prions. chers
les longueurs d'onde et les programmes, vous pouvez les
auditeurs, de nous faire savoir vos observations sur l'état d'écoute
trouver dans le bulletin mensuel " Radio-Tokio". Nous vous
et sur nos programmes, ainsi que les sujets que vous voudriez
enverrons gratuitement ce bulletin mensuel, vous n'avez qu'à
entendre. Il sera préférable d'ajouter à votre correspondance
nous le demander.
le poste d'émission (longeur d'onde, fréquence) et l'heure con-
Outre lannonce du programme par ce bulletin mensuel,
cernant les émissions que vous avez entendues..
vous pouvez entendre chaque vendredi (heure de l'Europe et
Notre Direction des émissions internationales transinet.
du Proche-Orient) lannonce du programme de la semaine
en plus des émissions à destination de l'Europe, du Proche-
suivante. (I leures de transmission : Heure d'Ankara: à 19h.
Orient et des Pays des Mers du Sud, celles à destinationde
20; Heure d'Aden. Bagdad et de la Mecque: 20h.20; Heure
l'Asie, du Sud-Ouest, des Amériques du Centre et du Sud, de
de Téhéran : 20h.50; Heure de Paris: 21h.45).
la Côte Pacifique et de la Côte Atlantique de l'Amérique du
Direction Générale des Emissions Internationales
Nord, des Iles Hawaii, de l'Amérique dy Sud, de la Nouvelle
de la Radio-Tokio.
FREQUENCIES AND WAVELENGTHS
October 1941
JZJ
11,800 kc's 25.42 m
JZJ 11,800 kc/s 25.42 m.
For Southwestern Asia
JZI
9.535 kc/s 31.46 m.
For the Pacific Coast of North
JZI
9,535 kc/s 31.46 m.
or JZK
15,160 kc/s 19.79 m.
America
or JZK
15,160 kc/8 19.79 m.
or JVZ
11,815 kc/s 25.39 m.
JZJ
11,800 kc/s 25.42 m.
JZI
9.535 kc/s 31.46 m.
For Hawaii
or JZK
15,160 kc/s 19.79 m.
For Near East
JZI
9.535 kc/s 31.46 m.
or JZJ
11,800 kc/ 25.42 m.
or JZK
15,160 kc/s 19.79 m.
For South America
JZJ
11,800 kc/m 25.42 m.
JZJ 11,800 kc/s 25.42 m.
For Burope
JLG2 9,505 kc/s 31.57 m.
For Australia and New
JZJ 11,800 kc/8 25.42 m.
Zealand
or JLG4 15,105 kc/s 19.86 n.
For China and the South Seas
JVZ 11,815 kc/s 25.39 m.
JLG4 15,105 kc/s 19.86 m.
For Latia America
JZJ 11,800 kc/ 25.42 m.
JZJ 11,800 kc/a 25.42 m.
or JVZ 11,815 kc/s 25.39 m.
For the South Sess
JVW3 11,725 kc/s 25.59 m.
JLG4 15,105 kc/s 19.86 m.
Distriets of
JZJ 11,800 lc/s 25.42 m.
or JVZ 11,815 kc/s 28.39 m.
For Japanese Soldlers at the
JVZ 11,815 ko/a 26.80
Fromt

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.75)
AIME nwsnnfuufoutsunu ufonuntqju
muldudmsn=inalmsnunnnonalu
mon JZ
niinaut .coo Rlalonnd
sunnna be.co luns
an 
niinaud o.der alalainad
uinnauanldonuuasnun Tnuuuu aonusvyns=
ounna .l2n
nln 10.00 1.  .0 1.
noun . 4.  . .
lovou
 Tuloaudnuulu
aa du  
lovou
.0 . . .
Dnannd unnalne
vinuanouriou
VLUnLA
Foreign Department
.. . .
nun
NIPPON HOSO KYOKAI
(The Broalcesting Corporation of Japan)
. . . .
FLCULCL
.00..0.
nunī
unnu aunynudu
b.091..09.
....
nunī
For Southwestern Asia
..
..
MaUIULCLo
b.
For Near East
.U.
..
nunī
3.
For Europe
kp.no 1.
.00 .
na
4.
For Latin America
....
ntpqAcn
5.
Fur the Eastern Districts of Nor th America
6.5 U.
..
ncAnn
b.
For the Pacific Coast of North America
Ho. u. o. u.
nun
H.
For Rawal1
b.u.
o.u.
BHIFARLCLa
2.
For South America
w. . . .
For Australia and New Zeeland
(onimu ösans wqua)
For China and the South Seas
usgunu (āns) ujo nunī
For Japanese Soldiers at the Front
 . . .
nunī
b.
For China
00 4. b.00 u.
nlLArta
.01.
mun
u.
mo.mo 1.
nnLARInn
O RADIO TOYO 
( (   )
mun
aonzmynsuduvuuvahju niñu
Dneani

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 240
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DLPARTMENTOF ORATHE
OCT31 1941
Department of State
941 OCT 28 AM 11 24
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
DIVRGIN OF
COMMUNICATIONS
Tokyo, September 3, 1941.
AND PLOORDS
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE OVERSEAS BROADGASTING.
DIVISION
INIEATIONA 
THE HONORABLE
JCT 29 1941
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894.76/
WASHINGTON.
103/9.
iN
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's
1nstruction of June 20, 1941 (F1le 894.76/26), which
5
6
states that no record can be found of a reply to the
89476/26
894.76
Department's instruction of November 12, 1940 regard-
ing proposed broadoasting stations in Japan, and plans
for a Far Eastern Broadcasting Association.
In this connection, reference may be made to this
894.76/34
NOV3
office's despatoh No. 173, of March 25, 1941, entitled
FILED
"Japanese Overseas Broadoasting," in whioh it was indi-
cated that reporting on this subject was henceforth
being undertaken exclusively by the Commercial Attaché
to avoid duplication, and that a copy of the Department's
instruction of November 12, 1940, cited above, as well
894.76/17
as 1ts instruction of August 15, 1940, had accordingly
been furnished the Office of the Commeroial Attaché.
The Department's instruction under acknowledgment
has been referred to the Office of the Commercial
P
S
Attacnó
/LD

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2.-
Attaché for attention in the light of the fore-
going.
Respectfully yours,
Sspe
9
S. G. Slavens,
American Consul
874/020
SuS/blo
Distrioution:
Original and 2 copies to Department.
Copy to Commercial Attache, Tokyo.

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
ADDRESS ALL
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D. C.
HENRY PAYNE
October 10, 1941
REOEIVED
RLS
OCT15 1941
FAR EASTERN ARFAIRS
Mecd01921
October14,
Department of State
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs
State Department
Washington, D.C.
894.76/60
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
In view of the rapidly developing situation in
894.76
the Far East, I thought you might be interested
in obtaining the enclosed reports of official
Japanese short-wave broadcasts of yesterday
before we are able to distribute our complete
report this afternoon. Consequently, I am sending
you four copies of the Japanese section by special
messenger.
If this "speed-up" is of any use to you, we shall
be glad to follow the same practice whenever it
PS/PLS
seems desirable in the future.
Sincerely yours,
flayd . Fow
Lloyd A. Free
Director,
Foreign Broadcast Monitoring Service
Enclosures-4
OCT 15 1941
FILED

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.97)
-D 1-
NORTH AMERICA DRAN
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
REFERENCES TO NORTH AMERICAN AFFAIRS
JAPAN'S NAVY MAKES U.S. HESITATE
The presence of the Japanese fleet in the Pacific is given by a
naval member of the Board of Information as one reason for American
"hesitation" to enter the European war. Also, the .S. is "awere of
the folly of picking chestnuts out of the fire in both China and
Europe." Britain's "desperate endeavor" to invite the U.S. into
the war is explained by the conmentator as due to her drastic shipping
losses. The U.S. is supposedly "hesitating" because she knowe that
wer ontry "would not turn the tids quickly," but would "spread the
flame of destruction throughout the world from waich even the U.S.
would not be laft intact."
U.S. IN WAR WILL NOT DEFBAT HITLER
"The invusion of Europe by Anglo-American forces is quite impossible
from the viewpoint of strategy and transportation," according to
"observers and comnu lcation experte. Tokyo declares. They further
"predict" that American war participatlon "wili produce no resulte"
except to dolay the cowmfall of the Churchill and Stalin regimes.
The above views re preceded by a dispatch from Stcckholm in which
Dr. Sven Hedin, Swedish explorer, is alleged in an interview to the
BEHLINER BOERSEN ZEITUNG to have predieted a German victory, with
the reservation that without an invasion of the Continent by Anglo-
American forces, there is no xssibility for Anglo-American victory.
AMERICAN NAVAL AIBITJON DISCUSSED
The old theme that America is taking over Britain's control of the
seas occurs in a CENTRAL CHINA DAILY NEWS editorial cited by the
Esinking radio, but the paper adds that to realize Roosevelt's ambition
to dominate the seas, "the U.S. mist risk fighting on two oceans with
guns and planes, to whip the enemy on the west and east.
HULL SILENCE ON JAPAN TAIKS NOTED
The Secretary of State "kept strict silence" an Japenese-American
relations queries at his Wednesday press conference, the radio relates,
"stating merely there is no chenge" in the status of the negotiatons.
Concerning Nakasugi'e return, Hull said he knew nothing of the

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.90)
- D 2 -
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
Minister's mission or of future developments, Tokyo reports without com-
ment.
JAPAN IS "CONCERNEDE OVER U.S. ACTS
Amorica's plais to implement its Far astern policy, as revealed in
House Approprla tions Committee testimony on She latost Leass-Lend
appropriation bill, mw Srom Tokyo the comment. "Even if these pro-
grame remain as mere restures, Jepan  canuot be mconeermed with
the American atti tuc a." The radio psss "evicence of intsntions to
couplete the trengt vening of Chung tl g. tuteh ard Amesrdem defonaes
in the Far Wast" in the half-tillion collars' worth of war supplies
for the Dutch Fast Iacies. 4 millloas for sm 1l srsenals and main-
tenance of shops in inland China, and the War Department's plans to
provide for the Philippine garrison.
REFER NCES TO EUROPE IN AEE OS
FINNS DETERMINED TO PIGHT ON
The Finnish logetion in Tokye iss ted : statement Oosuoer 9 clarify-
ing Finland's iem duterminats on to  lght Me Soviets to she bitter
enc.n
BE T S
"PASSIV AEEG
The paesive osistme" os the Duu peopt "aganst Br vish pres-
sure" is give by Totsyo ea reason for she alleged fallure cf the
Bri tish sponsored e binet in Irag. A mone dispatch is cited.
AFCHANISTAN GOVERHLFUT IS CAUTIOUS
Racioed inforration, purportedly from nkare, reveals a "sense of in-
security" emong the  ople of  fghantr san, feltowing receipt by the

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
- D 3 -
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
Kabul Government of a British-Soviet memorandun demanding the delivery
of the German residents. Afghanistan, it is laimed, is "cautious" in
the face of the alleged British and Soviet plan to "occupy" the country
as a supply route to Russia.
REFERE CES TO FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ALLIES WEAK, JAPAN'S AXIS TIE STRONG
A woman commentator develops at length the thesis that Japun's Axis
affiliation is a sericus metter, and that "Aiglo-Sexon observera are
wrong in thinking her solemm observance of tie tripartite anniversary
betokened weakoned Axis ties. The speaker believes "the Allied
pranketers are unknowiagly menifesting thsir own weakness." She points
out, as evidence, American and British efforts to strengthen their cut-
posta in Southeastern Asia, "veiled threats from the so-called alpha-
betical tie-up," the "hop-sccsching all over the South Pacific Seas"
of Brooke-Popham, Grady end Duff Cooper "to establish an alignment
against Japan." She charges hat there is "absence of genmine coopera-
tive spirit ans trust" emong the Allics, that American strength is
low, and that the "A30D's greatest wea mess is its feilure to appreciate
Japan's reel strength."
Axis Source Ness--No e than ever in evidence is Tokyo's use of Axis-
source material to report Gernan military advances in Pussis, and
general developments in the Hear end Hiddle ast.
CHUNGKING'S "FALSE PROPAGANDA" EXPOSED
War news from China is colored with incrsesed charges that Chungking
is spreading "false ropaganda" to concoal d feats rom its onn people
and perticularly fron the Magruder mission. Shanghai dispatches
aseert that th Chin ose are ci iming victory at Icheng "to check the
progress of th  Jape icse-American negctiatio is and to hide the collapse
of Chungking's fighting pover from the eyes of the American military
mission." (Without this false propaganda, a Chinese-language broad-
cast alleges, the pe ple would eecclereto the speed of revolt" and it
ts implled that Britusn cod Anmtee would bo matge shoir support.--Ed.)
All this is held to wove Chae sking's clsnal y nd "saofering." Chisng
Kat-shek is castigated as decctving his mill ons so that rts suls
cannot be accommodated by the people nor y esven." Chen, chow and
Changaha are treated as completed campy dgms Ls all the uoml repurts
of cleaning-up opere ssons, great turact  ors bhe chiness troepe, asd
corruption among the tr orficers.

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
IS DR. SON'S THUE FOLLOWER
stured as a "true follower" of Sun Yat-Sea. Chiang Kai-Shek, on
the contrary, "erred in his policy...and relied upon Britain and
Amerios to resist the Japanese." Thus "the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere that the Japanese promote," the commentator points
out, "is the realisation of the Great Asia doctrine of Dr. Sum."
Therefere, the claim is nade that the October 10 anniversary should
be celebrated not only by the Chinese, but also by Japan, Manohukuo
and other Asiatic nations.
CHUNGKING-U.S. "TREATY" CONCLUDED
NICHI NICHI reports frow Shanghai tha: Henry Grady has "completed a treaty"
between the U.S. and the Chungking regime "for the ciploitation of the
mineral resources of the interior of China." American "aid t, China"
is thus claimed to be y move for the "econowic control of China."
OIL EBARGO DOES NOT DISTURB JAPAN
The radio reports that America, Britain and the Netherlands Fast Indies
hare agreed to suspend oil shipments to Jayan, and asserts "sich a step
vould never affect Japan in the least," pecause "recent anti-Japanese
maneuvers" have foreshedowed it. The attitude of the three netions,
it is declared, "vill only strengthen" Japanese determina tion to
realize its Co-Prosparity Sphere. Koh Ishii declared thet if ashington
reports that no more cil vill be sont Japan ure intended to indicate
ner pressure, "it is not being felt hore," according to the T-kgo radio.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.97)
- D 1 -
NORIH AMERICA DEAA
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
REFERENCES TO NORTH AMERICAN AFFAIRS
JAPAN'S NAVY MAKES U.S. HESITATE
The presence of the Japanese fleet in the Pacific is given by a
naval member of the Board of Information as one reason for American
"hesitation" to enter the European var. Also, the .S. is "aware of
the folly of picking chestnuts out of the fire in beth China and
Europe." Britain's "desperete endesvor" to invite the U.S. into
the war is explained by the commontator es due to her drastic shipping
losses. The U.S. is supposedly "hesitating" because she knows that
war entry "would not turn the tide quickly," but wou ld "spread the
flame of destruction throughout the world from which even the U.S.
would not be left inact."
U.S. IN PAR WILL NOT DEFEAT HITLER
"The invasion of Eurupe by Anglo American forces is quite impossible
from the viewpoint or strategy nd transportation," accordirg to
"observers and commuicatio: experts." Tosyo declares, They further
"predict" that American war participation "will. produce no results"
except to delay the commfall of the Churchill and Stalin regimes.
The above views re preceded by a dispatch from Stockholm in which
Dr. Sven Hedin, Swedish explorer, ic alleged in an interview to the
BEALINER BOERSEI ZEIYUNG to have predicted a German victory, with
the reservation that without an invasion of the Continent by Anglo-
American forces, there is no possibility for Anglo-American victory.
AMERICAN NAVAL ALMBITION DISCUSSED
The old theme that America is taking over Britain's control of the
seas occurs in & CENTRAL CHINA DAILY NEWS editorial cited by the
Hsinking radio, but the paper adds that to realize Roosevelt's ambition
to dominate the seae, "the U.S, mist risik fighting on two oceans with
guns and planes, to whip the enemy on the west and east.
HULL SILENCE ON JAPAN TAIKS NOTED
The Secretary of State "kept strict silence" on Japanese-American
relations queries at his Wednesday press conference, the radio relates,
"stating merely there is no change" in the status of the negotiatons.
Concerning Wakasugi's return, Hull said he knew nothing of the

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.96)
-D 2 -
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
Minister's mission or of future devalopments, Tokyo reports without com-
ment.
JAPAN IS "CONCERNED" OVER U.S. ACTS
Amorica's plans to implement its Far Eastern policy, as revealed in
House Appropriations Committee testimony on the latest Lease-Lend
appropriation bill, draw from Tokyo the comment: "Even if these pro-
grams remain as mere gestures, Japan ... cannot be unconcerned with
tho American attitude." The radio sees "evidence of intentions to
couplete the strengthening of Chungking, Dutch and American defenses
in the Far East" in the half-billion dollars' worth of war supplies
for the Dutch East Indies, 4 millions for small arsonals and main-
tenance of shops in inland Chine, and the Var Department's plans to
provide for the Philippine garrison.
REFERENCES TO EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
FINNS DETERMINED TO FIGHT ON
The Finnish legation in Tokyo issued & statement October 9 clarify-
ing Finland's "firm determination to fight tho Soviets to the bitter
enc.n
BEFEBENCES TO NEAR AND MIDDLE EASTERN AFFAIRS
"PASSIVE RESISTANCE" BEGUN IN IRAQ
The "passive resistance" of the Iraqui people "against Britich pres-
sure" is giver: by Tokyo as reason for the alleged failure of the
Bri tish sponsored e binet in Iray. A Rone dispetch is cited.
AFCHANISTAN GOVERNLIPUT IS CAUTIOUS
Racfoed inforration, purportedly from rkare, revesls a ": ense of in-
security" peong the people of afghantr sen, f lewing resept by the

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
- D 3 -
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
Kabul Government of a British-Soviet memorandum demanding the delivery
of the German residents. Afghanistan, it is claimed, is "cautious" in
the face of the alleged British and Soviet plen to "occupy" the country
as a supply route to Russia.
REFERENCES TO FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ALLIES WEAK, JAPAN'S AXIS TIE STRONG
A woman commentator develops at length the thesis that Japan's Axis
affiliation is a serious matter, and that "Anglo-Saxon observers are
wrong in thinking her solern observance of the tripartite anniversary
betokened weakened Axds ties. The spesker believes "the Allied
prankaters are unknowingly manifesting their own weakness." She points
out, as evidence, Amcrican and British efforts to strengthen their cut-
posts in Southeastern Asia, "veiled threata from the so-called alphe-
betical tie-up," the "hop-scotohing all over the South Pacific Seas"
of Brooke-Popham, Grady and Duff Cooper "to establish un alignment
against Japan." She charges shet there is "absence of genuine coopera-
tive spirit and trust" among the Allies, that American strength is
low, and that the "A3CD's greatest wealmess is its failure to appreciate
Japan's real strengta."
Axia Source Nevs--More than ever in evicence is Tokyo's uso of Axie-
source materia) to rport German military advances in Russia, and
general developments in the Near and Widdle Mast.
CHUNGKING'S "FALSE F OPAGANDA" EXPOSED
War news from China is colored with increased charges that Chungking
is spreading false propaganda" to conceal dafeats from its own people
and particularly fron the Hagruder mission. Shanghei dispatches
assert that the Chinese are clciming victory at Ichang "to check the
progress of the Japa lese-American negotiations and to hide the collapse
of Chungking's fighting power from the eyes of the American military
mission." (Without this false propaganda, a Chinese-language broad-
cast alleges, the people would "accelerate the speeu of revolt" and it
is implied that Brit in and Anerica would begrudge their support. -Ed.)
All this is held to rove Chungking's isuni y and "suffering." Chiang
Kai-shek is castigatad as deceiving his aill ons so that his guilt
cannot be accommodatod by the people nor by leaven." Chengchow and
Changaha are treated as completed campmigns ith all the usual reperts
of cleaning-up opora bions, "great turncii" among the Chinese troops, and
corruption among their officers.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
BORTH AMERICA BEAM
- D 4 -
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
WANG ONLY IS DR. SUN'S TRUE FOLLOWER
The October 10 celebration of the founding of the Chinese Republic
gives occasion for a talk in Chineso in which Wang Ching-wei is
pictured as a "true follower" of Sun Yat-Sen. Chiang Kai-Shek, on
the contrary, "erred in his policy...and relied upon Britain and
America to resist the Japanese." Thus "the Greater East Asia Co-
Proeperity Sphere that the Japanese promote," the commentator pcints
out, "is the realization of the Great Asia doctrine of Dr. Sun."
Therefere, the claim is made that the October 10 anniversary should
be celebrated not only by the Chinese, but also by Japan, Manchukuo
and other Asiatic nations.
CHUNGKING-U.S. "TREATY" CONCLUDED
NICHI NICHI reports from Shanghai that Henry Grady has "completed a treaty"
between the U.S. and the Chungking regime "for the oxploitation of the
mineral resources of the interior of Chine." Americen "aid to China"
is thus claimed to be a move for the "economic control of China."
OIL EIBARGO DOES NOT DISTURB JAPAN
The radio reports that America, Britain and the Netherlands East Indies
have agreed to suspend cil shipments to Japan, end asserts "such a step
vould never affect Japan in the least," because "recent anti-Japanese
maneuvers" have foreshedowed it. The attitude of the three nations,
it is declared, "will only strengthen" Japan se determinc tion to
realize its Co-Prosparity Sphere. Koh Ishii declared that if hashington
reports that no more oil will be sent Japan ure in.tended to indicate
new pressure, "it is not being felt here," secording to the T-kgo radio.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.96)
-D 1 -
NORTH AMERICA BEALA
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
REFERENCES TO NORTH AMERICAN AFFAIRS
JAPAN'S NAVY MAKES U.S. HESITATE
The presence of the Sapanese fleet in the Pacific is given by a
naval member of the Board of Information as one reason for American
"hesitation" to enter the European var. Also, the U.S. is "aware of
the folly of picking chestnuts out of the fire in both China and
Europe." Britain's "desperate endeavor" to invite the U.S. into
the war is explained by the counentator as due to her drastic shipping
Losses. The U.3, is supposedly Thesitating" becauss she knons that
war entry "would not turn the tide quickly," but would "spread the
flame of destruction throughout the world from which even the U.S.
would not be left inunct.
U.S. IN WAR WILL NOT DEFEAT HITLER
"The invasion of Europe by Anglo-American forces ts quite impossible
from the viewpoint of strategy and tranaportation." accordirg to
"observers and commu ication experts," Tokyo ceclares. They further
"predict" that American war participstion "will produce no results"
except to delay the towmfall of the Churchill and Stalin regimes.
The above vievs re preceded by a diepatch from Stockhole in which
Dr. Sven Hedin, Swecish explorer, is alleged in an interviev to the
BELLINER BOERSEN ZEITUNG to have predisted a German victory, with
the reservation that without an invasion cf the Continent by Anglo-
Amcrican forces, there is no pssibility for Anglo-American victory.
AMERICAN NAVAL AMBITION DISCUSSED
The old theme that Azerica is taking over Britain's control of the
seas occure in a CENTRAL CHINA DAILY NEWS editorial cited by the
Hsinking radio, but the paper adds that to realise Roosevelt's ambition
to dominate the seas, "the U.S. must risk fighting on two oceans with
guns and planes, to whip the enemy on the west an east.
HUIL SILENCE ON JAPAN TAIKS NOTED
The Secretary of State "kept strict silence" on Japenese-American
relations queries at his Wednesday pross conference, the radio relates,
"stating merely there is no change" in the status of the negotiatons.
Concerning Wakasugi's return, Hall said he lss nothing of the

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.97)
- D 2 -
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
Minister's mission or of future developments, Tokyo reports without com-
ment.
JAPAN IS "CONCERNED" OVER U.S. ACTS
America's plans to implement its Far Fastern policy, as revealed in
House Appropriations Committee testimony on the latest Lease-Lend
appropriation bill, draw from Tokyo the comment: "Even if these pro-
grams remain as mere gestures, Japan ... cannot be unconcerned with
tho American attitude." The radio sees "evidence of intentions to
conplete the strengthening of Chngking, Dutch and American defenses
in the Far East" in the half-billion collars' worth of war supplies
for the Dutch East Indiea, 4 millions for small arssnals and main-
tenance of shopa in inland Chine, and the Var Department's plans to
provide for the Philippine garrison.
REFERENCES TO EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
FINNS DETERMINED TO FIGHT ON
The Finnish legation in Tokyo issued & statement October 9 clarify-
ing Finland's "firm dotermination to fight the Soviets to the bitter
end."
BEFERENCES TO NEAR AND MLDDLE CASTERN AFFAIRS
"PASSIVE RESISTANCE" BEGUN IN IRAQ
The "passive resistance" of the Iraqui people "against British pres-
sure" is given by Tokyo as reason for the alleged failure of the
British sponsored c binet in Iraq. A tone dispatch is cited.
AFCHANISTAN GOVERNMMUT IS CAUTIOUS
Radioed inforintion, purportedly from Ankara, reveals a "sense of in-
security" among the people of &fghanistan, following receipt by the

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.98)
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
- D 3 -
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
Kabul Government of a British-Soviet memorandum demanding the delivery
of the German residents. Afghanistan, it is claimed, is "cautious" in
the face of the alleged British and Soviet plan to "occupy" the country
as a supply route to Russia.
REFERENCES TO FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ALLIES WEAK, JAPAN'S AXIS TIE STRONG
A woman commentator develops at length the thesis that Japan's Axis
affiliation is a serious metter, and that "Anglo-Saxon observera are
wrong in thinking her solemm observance of the tripartite anniversary
betokened weakened Acis ties. The speaker believes "the Allied
prankaters are unknowingly manifesting their own weakness." She points
out, as evidence, American and British efforts to strengthen their cut-
posts in Southeastern Asis, "veiled threats from the so-called alpha-
betical tie-up," the "hop-scctching all over the South Pacific Seas"
of Brooke-Popham, Grady and Duff Cocper "to establish an aligrment
against Japan." She charges that there is "absence of genuine coopera-
tive spirit and trust" among the Allies, that American strength is
low, and that the "A3CD's greatest wealmess is its failure to appreciate
Japan's real strength."
Axis Source News-More then ever in evidence is Tokyo's use of Axis-
source meterial to report German military advances in Russia, and
general developments in the Nenr and Middle East.
CHUNGKING'S "FALSE PROPAGANDA" EXPOSED
War news from China is colored with increased charges that Chungking
is spreading "false propaganda" to conceal dofeats from its own people
and particularly fron the Magruder mission. Shanghai dispatches
assert that the Chinese are clciming victory at Ichang "to check the
progress of the Japanese-American negotiations and to hide the collapse
of Chungking's fighting power from the eyes of the American military
mission." (Without this false propaganda, a Chinese-language broad-
cast alleges, the people would "accelerate the speed of revolt" and it
is implied that Britain and America would begrudge their support.-Ed.)
All this is held to rove Chungking's disunisy and "suffering." Chiang
Kai-shek is castigated as deceiving his millions so that "his guilt
cannot be accommodated by the people nor by heaven." Chengchow and
Changsha are treated as completed campsigns vith all the usual reports
of oleaning-up operations, "great turmoil" arong the Chinese troops, and
corruption among thetr officers.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
- D 4 -
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
ANG ONLY IS DR. SUN'S TRUE FOLLOWER
The October 10 celebration of the founcing of the Chinese Republic
gives occasion for a talk in Chinese in which Wang Ching-wei is
pictured as a "true follower" of Sun Yat-Sen. Chiang Kai-Shek, on
the contrary, "erred in his policy...and relied upon Britain and
America to resist the Japanese." Thus "the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere that the Japanese promote," the commentator points
out, "is the realization of the Great Asla doctrine of Dr. Sun."
Therefere, the claim is made that the October 10 anniversary should
be celebrated not only by the Chinese, but also by Japan, Manchukuo
and other Asiatic nations.
CHUNGKING-U.S. "TREATY" CONGLODED
NICHI NICHI reports from Shanghal that Henry Crady has "completed a treaty"
betmeen the U.S. and the Chungking regime "for the cxploitation of the
mineral resources of the interior of China." American "aid to China"
is thus claimed to be a move for the "economic control of China."
OII. EIBARGO DOES NOT DISTURB JAPAN
The radio reports that America, Britain and the Netherlands East Indiee
have agreed to suspend oil shipments to Japan, end asserts "such a step
would never affect Japen in the least," beceuse "recent anti-Japanese
maneuvers" have foreshedowed it. The attitude of the three netions,
it is declared, "will only strengthen" Japenese determinc tion to
realize its Co-Prosperity Sphere. Koh Ishil declared thet if hashington
reports that no more cil will be sent Japan ure intended to indicate
new pressure, "it is not being felt here," sccording to the T-kyo radio.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.92)
- D 1 -
HORH AMERICA BEAL
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
REFERENCES TO NORTH AMERICAN AFFAIRS
JAPAN'S NAVY MAKES U.S. HESITATE
The presence of the Japanese fleet in the Pacifie is given by a
naval member of the Board of Informvetion es one rea on for American
"hesitation" to enter the European var. Alse, the I.S. is "aware of
the folly of picking crestnuts out of the fire in both Chtim end
Europe." Brttain's "desperate endeaver" to invite the U.S. inte
the war is exolained by the concantetet as sue to her drastie shinping
losses. The U.3. ts suoposedly thesitating" because she knove thet
war antry "would net ourn the bide qulekly,t but wou id aproad the
flame of destractio throughous the worta fros which even the U.8
wonld not be left in beet."
U.S. IN WAR WILD NOT DESEAT HITGER
"The invasion of Eurove by nge Amer a foroes ls quibe aapoesible
from the viewpoine o stratogy nd tra spoctation." ccoordie to
"olservers and commmicatier experte " Tokyo ceclaree They further
"predict" that Americen wer participacioe vill prosuce no results"
except to dolay the cowmfall of the O vehtln end Stalin rey Imes.
The above views are receded by a dIsmater free Stee tholm in which
Dr. Sven Hedin, Swecish explorer, is a legod in an latervier to the
DEALLINER BOERSEU ZEITUNG to have prodi te a Gamman victory. wáth
the peservation that without ar tove ston of the Contlrent by Anglo-
American forces, there is no poss bility for Anglo-American victory.
AMERICAN HAVAL AIIDITION DISCUSSED
The ola theme thay Auerica is taking over Britain's conirol of the
seas occurs in & CENTRAL CIUUNA DATLY NEWS editorial cited by the
Heinking radio, but the paper adds that to realize Roocovelt's ambition
to dominate the seae, "the U.s. mist risk fighting on twe cceans with
guns and planes, to vhip the snemy on the west and cast.
HULL SILPNCE ON JAPAP TALKS NOTED
The Secretary of State "kept striet silesce" on Japansee-American
relations queries at his Wecnesdey prons conference, the radio relates
"stating merely there is no change" in the stetus of the negotiatous.
Cor cerning Wakasugi'a retuva. Hull said be know notting of the

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.97)
- D 2 -
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
inister's mission or of future developments, Tokyo reports without com-
ment.
JAPAN IS "CONCERNED OVER U.S. ACTS
Amorica's plans to implement its Far Fastern policy, as revealed in
House Appropristions Committee testimony on the latest Lease-Lend
appropriation bill, draw from Tokyo the comment: "Even if these pro-
grams remain as mere gestures, Japan ... cannot be unconcerned with
the American attituds." The radio sees "evidence of intentions to
couplete the strengthening of Chungking, Dutch and American defenses
in the Far East" in the half-billion dollars' worth of war supplies
for the Dutch East Indies, 4 millions for small arsenals and main-
tenance of shops in inland China, and the Var Department's plans to
provide for the Philippine garrison.
REFERENCES TO EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
FINNS DETERMINED TO FIGHT ON
The Finnish legation in Tokyo issued a statement October 9 clarify-
ing Finland's "firm determination to ight the Soviets to the bitter
end.n
BEFERENCES TO NE AR AND MLDDLE EASTERN AFFAIRS
"PASSIVE RESISTANCE" BEGUN IN IRAQ
The "passive resistance" of the Iraqui people "againat British pres-
sure" is given by Tokyo as reason for tho alleged failure of the
British sponsored cabinet in Iraq. A Rome dispatch is cited.
AFCHANISTAN GOVERNIEIT IS CAUTIOUS
Radioed inforvation, purportedly from Ankara, reveals a "sense of in-
security" among the people of Afghanistan, following receipt by the

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.98)
NORTH AMERICA BEAM
-D 3-
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
abul Government of a British-Soviet memorandum demanding the delivery
of the German residents. Afghanistan, it is claimed, is "cautious" in
the face of the alleged British and Soviet plan to "occupy" the country
as a supply route to Russia.
REFERENCES TO FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ALLIES WEAK, JAPAN'S AXIS TIE STRONG
A woman commentator develops at length the thesis that Japan's Axis
affiliation is a serious matter, and that "Auglo-Saxon observers are
wrong in thinking her solemm observance of the tripartite anniversary
betokened weakened Axis ties. The speaker believes "the Allied
pranksters are unknosingly manifesting thsir own weakness." She points
out, as evidence, Americen and British efforts to strengthen their cut-
posts in Southeaster1 Asia, "veiled threata from the so-called alphe-
betical tie-up," the "hop-scotching all over the South Pacific Seas"
of Brooke-Popham, Grady and Duff Cooper "to establish an aligrment
against Japan." She charges that there is "absence of genuine coopera-
tive spirit and trust" among the Allies, tha American strength is
low, and that the "A3cD's greatest weakness is its failure to appreciate
Japan's real strength."
Axis Source Newa--More than ever in evidence is Tokyo's use of Axis-
source meterial to report Gernan military advancea in fussia, and
general developments in the Near and Middle ast.
CHUNGKING'S "FALSE PROPAGANDA" EXPOSED
War news from China is colored with increased charges that Chungking
is spreading "false propaganda" to conceal defeats from its own people
and particularly from the Magruder mission. Shanghai dispatches
assert that the Chinese are climing victory at Ichang "to check the
progress of the Japansse-American negotiations and to hide the collapse
of Chungking's fighting power from the eyes of the American military
mission." (Without this false propaganda, a Chinese-language broad-
cast alleges, the poople would "accelerate the speed of revolt" end it
is implied that Britain and America would begrudge their support.-Ed.)
All this is held to prove Chungking's disunity and "suffering." Chiang
Kai-shek is castigated as deceiving his millions so that his guilt
cannot be accommodated by the people nor by heaven." Chengchow and
Changsha are treated as completed canpsigns vith all the usual reports
of cleaning-up operations, "great turmoil" arong the Chinese troops, and
corruption among their officers.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.94)
NORTH ANERICA BEAM
一D 4-
OFFICIAL JAPANESE RADIO
WANG ONLY IS DR. SUN'S TRUE FOLLOWER
The October 10 celebration of the founcing of the Chinese Republic
gives occasion for a talk in Chinese in vhich Wang Ching-wei is
pictured as a "true follower" of Sun Yat-Sen. Chiang Kai-Shek, on
the contrary, "erred in his policy...and relied upon Britain and
America to resist the Japanese." Thus "the Greater East Asia Co-
Prosperity Sphere that the Japaneso promoto," the commentator points
out, "is the realization of the Grest Asla doetrine of Dr. Sun."
Therefere, the claim is made that the Cctober 10 anniversary should
be celebrated not only by the Chinese. but also by Japun, Manehukuo
and other Asiatic nations.
CHUNGKING-U.S. TREATY" CONCLUDED
NICHI NICHI reports from Shanghel that donry Grady has "comoleted a treaty"
between the U.S. and the Chungking re ime "for the exploitation of the
mineral resources of the interior of China." American "aid to China"
is thus claimed to be a move for the "ecunomie cootrol of Chins."
OIL ELBARGO DOES HOT DISTURB JAPAN
The radio reports thnt Amordca, Britain und the Netherlands East Indies
have agreed to suupend oil shipwent to Jo mm, end asserts "euch a step
would never affecs Jaom in the leart," beemee "recent enti-Jepanese
mareuvere" have foreshe rowed it. The attibude of the three nations,
it is declared,  y etrevsshen" Jpae deter inatdon to
reelize its Co-Prosper by Spheve. Soh Tohli caclared thet Lf bashington
reports that no more oml will be sont a an ure intended to indicate
nev peeasure, rit ia mot being cel, herey" cecorains to phe Tekyo vadio.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.94)
9-
October 14, 1941
My dear Mr. Free:
The receipt is aoknowledged with thanks of your
letter of October 10, 194l, with whioh you were so good
as to send us by speoial messenger advanoe copies of
294.76/60
reports of ofriclsl Japanese short-wave broadoasts.
While we should not wish to burden your ofrioe by mak-
ing a speoifio request for advance copies, in the future
we should of course be glad to receive in advance any
material whioh you think might be of speolal interest.
Your courtesy in the matter 1s much appreoiated.
PS/PL
Sinoerely yours,
S
Maxwell M. Mamilten
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
JR
OCT 14
Mr. Lleyd A. Free, Direotor,
Foreign Broadcast Menitoring Servise,
Federal Communieations Cemmission,
Washington, D. C.
RAS
FE:ALS:HES
10-11, 14

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.93)
JOHN EDGAR MOOVER-
DeR
DIRECTOR
Rederal Burean of Juvestigation
Fx
π
Antted States Department of Juatice
Washington, D. C.
Pell
October 14, 1941
E6
Notedly
PERSONAL AND
mym.
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
P8.
Assistant Secretary of State
SEGRETARY
STATE
Department of State
ASSISTANT
Washington, D. C.
OCT 15 1941
MR. BERLE
894.76/61
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible
interest to you I am transmitting herewith translated
894.76
transcripts of radio broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan
for the period September 10, 194l to September 15,
1941, inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
Rloivision of
PS
FAR EASTERN AFFAINS
Nv 1 19
20. 2Aoover
à
Department of State
Enclosure
S
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
NOV12194T
ACTIVITY
FILED
11311
OCT 15 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DECLASSIFIED
Justice Depactment Guideluios, 1-2't 1984
By G
5.16.1984
NARS. Date

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Progrem
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Date 9/10/41
(Recorder's note; Noise level on this series of
records is very high--atmospherics).
Nows:
Appointment of Yoshizawa as Japan's envoy to
French Indo-China. Investure ceremony held today. Yoshizawa
expected to leave for Hanoi in mid-October. Appointment of
Yoshizawa greatly wolcomed in Hanoi.
Something avout a meeting of the Privy Council
and Minister of War Tojo's report on the situation in Europe
Something about the sinking of Sessa, Steel
Seafarer and Presidont Roosevelt's speech, schcduled for to-
morrow.
Something about a Berlin dispatch reporting
the claim of a German authority in regard to the sinking of
the Steel Seafarer as only propor in view of Italian-German
blockade of the war zones.
Something about a Washington dispatch report-
ing the press interview of Secretary of State Hull and his
refusal to make any definite statement in regard to the Ja-
panese-American rolations.
Something abour: a London dispatch stating
that Premier Churchill's confession that problems portaining
to the Pacific and Japan wero discussed at the conference at
sea with President Roosevelt.
Something about a statement made by Wang Ching-
wei in regard to the progress being made in the step by step
restoration of peaco and ordor zones.
Something about Japanese naval air force raid-
ing certain regions (namo of places indistinct).
Something about Japanese troops' tightening
their encircloment around certain Chinese divisions.
Something about a Canton dispatch pertaining
to the condition in Chungking.
According to a comnunique issued by the German
High Command, the German troops captured Schlusselburg and
has completely cut off Leningrad from the outside world. On
the other hand, tho German air force raided Moscow and Leiir-

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
grad. According to roport from Moscow, the Russian troops
are putting up a stubborn resistance at Moscow.
Something about the German air force raiding
Yorkshire and other places in England and another force
raiding a convoy of British ships near Suez Canal. On the
other hand, German submarine on the Atlantic ias sunk 4 Bri-
tish merchant ships, totalling 21,500 tons.
Something about a German ship transporting
troops sunk by British warships off Norway.
Something about an American critic writing on
the New York Times of September 9 to the effect that Germany
will never suffer a shortage of oil and gasoline.
According to a dispatch frcm Tehran, the
Iranian government has accepted the cruel demands of Britain
and Soviet Russia.
According to a dispatch from Buenos Aires,
the Argentine foreign ministry today announced the conclusion
of an agreement to soll all of Argentine's materials to Eng-
land and America--that is, the majority of materials necessary
for war purposes.
Comment on current events:
Topis "The Russo-German War and Its Affect":
The commentator termed the current world confusion as a con-
flict between tho Axis and the anti-Axis powers and based
his view on tho outcore of the Europoan war primarily on
the reports from German sources. Ho emphasized the authen-
city of Gorman reports claimin; the imminent fall of Lenin-
grad and Odessa and attributed the delay to Gormany's re-
construction of her lines of communication and desire to
lessen her lossos as much as possible. This German influ-
ence directed from some noarby sourco is seon through this
talk. He severely criticized England's actions in Syria,
Irag and Iran and attributed England's actions to her fear
of confronting German might after the conclusion of the
Russo-German war, which, he claimed, will end in Germany:s
victory. Ho mentioned how Gormany's victory will effect
England in Southwestern Asia and drive out her influence
from that region, in view of the present anti-British senti-
ment in and around that region. In other wo rds, this talk
can bo rogarded as an unadulterated Germany propaganda made
througl the mouth of Jap an.
Jep aneso music.
Domestic news (From the districts of Hokuriku and
Shinotsu):
The nows pertained to Toyama, Fukui, Nagano

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
and Ishikawa Prefectures and included the celebration of
a festival at Yao matsu, Toyama, the discovery of a large
voin of some kind of ore in Toyama Prefecture, the near
completion of a highway connecting Tsuruga, Fukui Prefec-
ture, with Nagoya, Shizuoka Prefecturo, tho discovery of
old Chinese coins, 700 to 800 years old, In Yoichimachi,
Fukui Prefecture, the driving out of business of the tea-
shops within the yard of Zenkoji Temple in Nagano Prefec-
ture, the proposod observation of the 75th anniversary of
the death of Akamatsu, a great literary man of Old Japan,
and the appearance of some new kind of food-stuff in the
markets of Kanazawa, Ishikawa Prefecture.
Japanese music.
Talk on "Tho way to mutual prosperity in Asia"
by Koji Okubo, president of Kaikyoken Konkyu She (Not sure,
but may bo a name of some kind of printing company): Over-
seas Japanese rosidents, I believe that you are all well
aware of the f act that your fatherland, Japan, today, is
exerting her whole effort toward the creation of a greater
East Asia mutual prospority sphore. Necdless to say, this
great project is a very reasonable claim and desire for
Jp an. As you all know, the island empire of Japan stret-
ches from the northwest to the southwest as though embrecing
the Asiatic continent. Even from this geographical stand-
point, it can be seen that a very close political as well
as economical relations exist betwoen Japan and Eastern and
Southeastern Asia. Furthermore, it is an acknowledged fact
that the Jap anese race has a deop connoction (?), both ra-
cially and culturally, with theso regions because of this
geographic condition. Moreover, it is only natural for
Japan, under such condition, to have had a sorious interest
in theso regions from ages ago and to have maintainud a
closo historical relations with those regions. And this
relations of Japan with Eastern and Southeastern Asia have
been indicated from old by such words as "Yamato", "Kara"
and Chinijiku". However, this was not merely the listing
of tho namos of the three countries of Japan, China and
Mongolia, but the indication of the existence of a greater
East Asia mutual prospority sphore, including Eastern and
Southoastorn Asia. We sunt mon abroad to study Confucian-
ism and Buddhism, and we, with Japanese spirit, enhanced
the true value of these two great learnings and strengthened
and preserved them by putting them into practice. Thereicre,
this certainly is our beatific service rendered toward the
greater East Asia mutual prospority.sphere, and it would not
be on exaggeraticn to state that the ideas of the races of
East Asia were definitely established by this. Furthormore,
we imported the culture of Asia from the Asuka, which is 1,300
years ago, throughthe Nara, which is 1,O0o years ago, up to
tii. beginning ofHoian Period. Not only was it from East and
Southeastern Asia, but also from tho races of Turkey and Iran.
We, Japanese, also added and polished these up with the Jap-
moso principlos. Now, in spite of the fact that the other
-3.~

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
races have lost their culture of that time, the Jp anese
race alono have preservod this sc-called Asiatic culturo
of 1,00o years ago. This, in other words, means that the
Japanese race, from the standpoint of cultural history,
has played the glorious role of proserving the Asiatic
culturo and that tho Japanose race has el ready performed
an important service for the greator East Asia mutual
prosperity sphere. That is, throughout the Kamakura, Muro-
machi md Momoyama Eras, wo, Japanese, maintained our cul-
tural relations with Eastorn Asia and contributed toward
the devolopment of tho Japanose and Asiatic culture. And
even during tho Edo Era, prior to tho enforcement of the
isolation policy, wi th tho South Seas was not overlooked.
Thon, in tho Moiji Era, Jepan ushered itsolf into the inter-
national stage. As a result, wo came to realize more clear-
ly Japan's position as a nation within tho greator East
Asia mutual prosperity sphore. Then, Japan's victory in
the Russo-Jap an War of 1904-05 stimulated tho races of Asia,
and it is an historical fact that it started the roconstruc-
tion of Asia. Today, Jp an, which has becomo a modern nation,
has come to considor her position in Asia and to fully under-
stand the situation in Asia. Hence, sho has como to re-
consider her connection with Asia and realize the importance
of drawing closer to Asia. Therefore, sho has cone to verify
the principle of mutual prosperity and mutual existonce.
This is bocause tho creation of a groator East Asia mutual
prosperity sphere, from the standpoint of history and geo-
graphy, is only natural and is nothing but the highest
mission to enable her to respond to the present urgent world
domand. As oxplained above, thoro lios a deep moral prin-
ciple within Jup an's croation of a greator East Asia mutual
prosperity sphere. Therefore, we must overcome ail obstacles
in ordor to accomplish our aim. At such a time, I would
like tho nations of tho worid to look straight at Jep an's
claim and study moro deoply Jx an's history and culture.
Then, I bolieve, they suroly will be able to seo the true
form of Japan and undorstand the true position of Japan.
Jap anoso residents abroad, the peoplo of Japan, today, are
stout-hoartedly marching toward a high ideal with a deop
detormination and an opon fecling. Therefore, my fellow.
countrymen residing abroad, I sincerely hope that you will
communicate your soul with ouris with a clear fooling and
a great hopo.
(Note: Asuka Era 412-628, Nara Era 710-789,
Hoian Era 794-856, Kamakura Era 1192-1333, Muromachi Era
1392-1490, Momoyama Era 1593-1612).
Tomorrow's program
Jepanoso national anthom.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Dato 9/11/41
Froquency 15,l60 Kilocycles.
Radio drama
News: (Record very poor. Full of static).
The Navy Ministry's announcoment of shako-up
of porsonnol. Admiral Kichi Shiozawa, formerly commandant
of Yokosuka naval base, appointed member of supreme war
council. Admiral Shigetaro Shimada, formorly commander-in-
chief of the Japanese fleot in China waturs, appointed com-
mandant of Yokosuka naval base. Vice-admiral Mineichi Koga
appointed from an important pcst at sea to commander-in-
chiof of the Japanese floet in China waters. Vice-Admiral
Eikichi Katagiri appointed chiof of the naval aoronautic
headquarters. (Rocord very indistinct).
Soething about a statement issued by Vico-
Admiral Minoichi Koga, newly appointed commander-in-chiof
of the Japaneso fleot in China waters, expressing the de-
tormination of the Japanese navy. (Record very indistinct).
War Minister Tojo was called bofore the emperer
this morning and made a report of the mattors under his
jurisdiction. (Record vory indistinct).
Somothing about tho American government's opinion
in rogard to tho Uss Greer incidont (Rocord very indistinct),
and something about President Roosevelt holding a conferenco
with important party loadors.
Somothing about a Now York dispatch portaining to
Prosident Roosevelt's forthcoming specch. (Record vory
indistinct.)
Somothing about tho raids cf tho Jap anese air
force (Record very indistinct).
Somothing about tho RussoGerman war (Record
wholly inaudible).
Somothing about the Dritish air force (Rocord
very indistinct).
Something about the German troops completely
encircling Loningrad (Rocord very indistinct).
Something about the Gyrman air force raiding
Moscow and its noighborhood, (Rocord very indistinct).

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.98)
Something about a Washington dispatch reporting
tho convoning of Congross oarlier than schoduled. (Re-
cord very indistinct).
(Tranal ator's note: There wore many moro news, but
duo to the condition of the records, they were inaudible).
Jap anese music.
Comriont on curront ovonts:
Topic portains to something about the mutual
prospority sphoro and thc dispatching of Yoshizawa to
Fronch Indo-China; Rocord vory poor. Judging from words
caught now and thon, tho comment appears to havo been c ontor-
ed upon Jp an's action in French Indc-China and what is be..
ing oxpoctod of Yoshizawa.
Jep anese music.
Tomorrow's program
Japanese national anthem.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
Station JZK Program.
Datc 9/12/41
Froquoncy 15160 Kilocyclos.
Nows:
According to a dispatch from Washington,
Prosidont Roosevelt at 9 a.n. yostorday mado a radio
broadcast in regard to the rocent incident on the itlantic,
stressing America's froedon of tho seas. In it, ho statod
that he has issucd an order to the American navy to fire
at any Gorman warship, submarino or airplane when seen and
in regard to tho Uss Groer incidont, he again assorted
that it was the Gornan submarine that firod first and do-
clared that Amorica is dotormined to prosurvo the freodom
of the seas for tho purpose of carrying on logitimato
trado. Io also stated that if Italien and Gorman warships
ontor America's defenso zono, thoy will be doing so at
their own risk. iithough he rovealed his utmost hatred to
Germany, tho prosidont failod to mention anything about
Jap an or the Far Eastorn probloms, but ho for tho first
timo usod tho torm "dofense waters" and this can bo said
to be America's last step toward cntry into tho war. In
the first stop, the torritorial waters of America was
widoned from 3 to 15 nautical milcs. Tho secona stup os-
tablished tho noutral zonos and tho third stop ostablished
tho patrol zonos. Thus, the American governmont's schemo
to load tho nation into the war has come to this last
stago. In rogard to this new torn "cofonso wators", the
American onbassy in Japan was asked this morning as to
what the word moant. The horican embassy ropliod that
no official dcfinition has yet boen recoived, but dofined
it as follows: "Since tho torn "defense wators" is not to
bo found in the intornational law, it can not be definitoly
defined as strotching fron hero to there. It, in all like-
lihood, means that tho prosent patrol zones have boon wi loned
and oxpanded. In viow of the successive occurrenc of such
incidents as tho Greor, the Stool Soufaror and Sossa, America
cannot romain silont any more. Honce, the patrol zones may
have been oxpanded to as far as England and Africa. Hothing
definito can bo said in rogard to tho Pacific, but in view
of tho fact that war is boing carriod on only in he .t-
lantic, at prosont, it is not of such great prcblen in
tho Pacific. However, if Gorman submarines should attempt
to obstruct tho traffic bctween merican and ustralia, it
cannot be told to what oxtont tho dofonse wators may ts
oxpanded. In other words, the torm "dofonse wators" is
ono of great floxibility and is considorod according to
tho circunstancos". (This statoment roportodly war made
by Comdr. MI. Smith-Ilutton).

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.97)
At tho l9th meoting of tho mobilization dis-
cussion committos, which was hold yostorday at tho pronier's
residonce, throo imperial ordinances were adopted to
strongthon our war preparation in rogard to ineroased pro-
duction.
Tho sccond hir Dofonse Day will be obsorved
this coming Septomber 20. This day was ostablished last
year.
According to a dispatch fron Nanking, Japa-
nese Ambassador to China Honda, who has bsen confurring
with various Chineso officials ovor sinco his roturn to
Nanking, has docided to hold a conferenee of the Japanese
consul-gonerals and reprosentatives of Kowa-in (East Asia
Fodoration) for throo days, starting from Scptomber 22,
at Nanking to discuss mothods to strengthen the relations
betwoon Nanking and Japan.
According to a dispatch from tho front,
the Japanoso air forco this morning raidod Sian, Szechwen
Province, and caused considerablo damages to tho military
establishments thore.
Achicvenonts of tho Japanese troops oporat-
ing in Shantung Province, tho northorn section of Kiangsu
Provinco and the northorn soction of Anwhel Province for
the month of August--443 battlos, 2,615 killod, and 529
captured, bosidos many arms and anmunition.
According to a dispatch from Narking. thoso
who surrondered to our troeps oporating in the mountainous
rogions along tho border o? Shansi and Honan included 7
comnanders, 11 assistant cornandors and 49 other high rank-
ing officors. All those officers stated that they have
como to rualizo what Japan is doing for China and how orpo.
neous the reports issued by Chungking were and that althongh
thoy fought against tho Japanoso troops, they never oxpected
to win.
According to a dispatch from Eorlin, tho
German government announced that the pronior of Fungary.
accompanicd by the Hungarian chief cf staff, callcd cn
Hitler at the front and frankly discussed various problems
pertaining tho Russo-German war with Hitler from Septombor
8 to 10.
According to a dispatch from Rom, Foroign
Minister Ciano yosterday made a radio broadcast and ex-
plained the significanco of tho current war, as a war o.
tho Axis powers against Bolshavisn, vhich is attompeing
to dostroy tho 3, Cco yoars history of Europsan civili -
tion.
…2…

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.97)
According to a dispatch from London, con-
sidorablo opposition is boing exprossed in tho British
parliament in regard to tho inglo-merican 8 point colla-
boration, docidod at the conferonco betwoun President
Roosovelt and Premior Churchill at soa. Tho opinion is
that it will moet tho same fate as Presidont Wilson's
14 point proposal.
According to a dispatch fron Tehran, the
foreign ministor of Iran roported tho torns of tho ar.
mistice proposed by Britain and Sovict to the legisla-
tive body of Iran on Spetembor 10, and this report was
broadcast throughout tho nation on the night of Sptem-
ber 10. According to it, Britain sont a note stating that
she will not capturo Tehran on September 6 on condition
that tho Iranian govornmont will close up the logations
of Gormany and Italy as woll as thoso of Rumania and
Hungary, request the monbers of thoso logations to leave
the country and turn ovor the Gorman rosidents to the
British troops. On tho other hand, Soviot Russia also
sont a noto to Iran on Soptomber 6, stating that Iran
should repair the damages by hersoif and rofusing to
guarantee that Soviot troops will not intorfero with the
intornal affairs of Iran.
According to a dispatch fron Rome, Japa-
noso Minister to Iran Ishikawa has agroed to protect the
Italian interosts in Iran after tho withdrawal of the Ita-
lian logation and nationals.
According to a dispatch fron nkara, a
roport from a reliabls source has been roccivod, stating
that numorous Jowish uprisings occurrcd in Biro-Bidjan
during the month of august tnd that the loaders were severe-
ly punished by Sovict authoritios.
According to a dispatch fron London. tho
Gernan troops roportodly have renclhed the west soctor of
Leningrad and aro staging a fierco fight vith tho Ruscian
troops in the suburbs of Loningrad.
According to a dispatch fron Mosccw, Peoplo's
Commissar of Foroign ffairs Molotov on Soptember 10 re.
portodly lodged a protest with Bulgarian Minister to Soviet
Russia Staminoff (phonotic) in regard to Eulgaria's pro.
mise to lond military bases in Bulgaria to the .x's powors
for their attack on Odossa, Crinoa and the surrounding
rogions,
Jannose music.
Comment on current events:
Topic "Tonth enniversary of Manchoukuo".
.3

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.96)
This was a very short talk of about 7 or 8 minutes and out-
linod the outbroak of the Manchurian incident up to the os-
tablishment of Manchoukuo with the oxplanation that Russia
had instigated tho Manchurians to oppose Japan. Thon,
the progross of Mmchoukuo as an indopendent nation was
elaborated upon.
Jp anoso music.
Donestic nows (Fron the central districts of Japan:
(This news broadcast was cut off by tho
rocorder aftor news from Hiroshima and Okayama Profectures
were givon. Tho news fron Hiroshima Prefocture portainod
to a plan to sond a second group of scttlors to Manchoukuo
and a plan to givo air dofonsc training to tho youths of
tho said profecture. Tho nows from Okayama Prefecture per-
tained to the near completion of Okayama Profecture's six
yoar plan to reconstruct a cortain port).
Tomorrow's program
Thomo song.
Japanose national anthom.
..4

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/13/41
Frequency 15, 160 Kilocycles.
Japanese music.
News:
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the
German government has placed the responsibility for the
spreading of the war upon America and even the various
newspapers are severely criticizing President Roosevelt.
Moreover, it appears as if the German government is de-
vising counter-measures against tho proposed action of
the American navy.
According to a dispatch frcm Berlin, the
German government today issued a statement refuting Pre-
sident Roosevelt:s talk. Denounsing the president's
speech as an arbitrary one lacking in truth and designed
to give the impression that Germany is systematically at-
tacking American ships, the German government, especially
the foreign office, wholly refuted the president's speech.
as follows: The president's speech attempts to make the
American people believe that he has been compelled to take
defensive measures to protect America's interests. In re:
ality, it is nothing but his desire to aggravate the situ-
ation unnecessarily and plan for the recurrence of inci-
dents. Beginning with the Uss Greer incident, the inci-
dents in which ships have been sunk by German submarines
were all due to their challenging attitude or to America,
hersolf. Hence, they are not matters for the president
to talk about. The president has admitted that he has
issued an order to the American navy to attack German sub-
marines. Consequently, he has enabled Germany to take
the necessary measures. However, it must be regarded that
the president, himself, has proclaimed to the world that
he will be responsible for the conseguences. To begin with,
the president is the instigator and aggravator of the Euro-
pean war. That is, he plotted the outbreak of the war by
promising aid to Czechoslovakia and it was the president,
too, who attompted to induce Yuoslavia to fight. The de..
feat of France, too, is the responsibility of the presi-
dent. In other words, the president is ignoring his pro-
mise given at the time of the election campaign and is
trying to lure the nation into war as victims of the
war for the benofit of the Englishmen and the Jews.
According to a dispatch from New York, va.
rious opinions, both pro and con, aro being voiced within
America in connection with the president's speech of Sep-
tomber 1l, but the ropresentative opinion in the Cong es-
sional circle is that the president has ignored the right
-1-

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
of Congress to doclare war through this order of "Shoot
first", which is nothing other than a moasuro actually
declaring war against Germany. Although the "shoot
first" order was issued by the president from his posi-
tion as commander-in-chief of tho American army and navy.
it is being interpreted as completely nullifying the spi-
rit of the neutrality law and as an exception measure sub-
stantially more effective than tho open nullification of
the neutrality law, which, the president feared, would
arouso tho national sontiment opposing it. Furthermore,
the reason why the president has taken this oxceptional
measuro, it is bolioved, is that he belioves that tho
general sentimont as well as that of Congross will come
to abide by the government, whethor they want to or not,
if he high-handedly carried cut this measure and that a
feeling that the neutrality law is good for nothing will
arise in the Congressional circle if this oxceptional
measure, which , in reality, wipes cut the neutrality law,
is carriod out.
Various opinions are being mado in our country,
too, in rugard to the president's speech, and some of ths
roprosentative onos are, as follows: Yomiuri Shimbun--
Whenever the Amorican govornment opons her mouth, she
clamors for the f reedom of the seas as though the freedom
of tho seas is a special privilege allowed to her, alono.
In rogard to respecting tie principle of tho frocuomeof the
soas, we aro not behind America, but has tho American
governmont, who sidos with only one sido of tho bolliger-
ont nations and is conducting a challonging patrol to se-
cure her traffic (?), the right to claim for tho freodom
of the soas? If, as claimed by Presidont Roosovolt, the
strong patrolling of the seas is based on the protection
of tho froudom of the soas and American wants the Axis
powers to observo this, Amorica, firstly, must talko tho
position of an impartial third power. In such a way only
will Amorica's traditional policy of frecdom of tho seas
be rocognizod by tho nations of the worid. Tokyo Nichi-
Nichi--In view of tho fact that Amorica's public senti-
ment does not indicato as to whsther it approves or wholly
disapproves of positivo armed action, Prosidont Roosevelt
must rofrain from expruasing in words to tho world the pro-
posed action of the American navy, which is really war
action, frankly as a war action. Novertholess, sinco his
order is to sink Gorman warships whonover and vh erever seon.
it, in substance, is unmistakably a declaration of war.
This is, it should really be rogarded as a ceclaration
of war against Gormeny. However, the pretext (?) that this
stop is nocossary in the Atlantic for the protection of
Americs is nothing other thin a pratoxt to protoct the
routo of aid to England. That is, it is tho protection
of the routo of aid to England of imericn, who is acui oly
obstructing Germany's oporations against Lngland. To come
…2

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
to a conclusion, the quostion as to how this route is to
be disposed of can bo said to bo dopendent upon the wil1
of Gormany.
According to a dispatch from Rome, tho con-
tonts of Prosidont Roosovolt's spoech wero exactly as an-
ticipated by Italy and woro of no surprise. The opinion
of the Italian govornment is that it clearly indicates the
presidont's intention to oxcito tho oasily excitablo Ameri-
can people and gradually lead them into the war. That is,
Presidont Roosevelt is trying to placo his country in an
advantagoous position by taking advantage of trifling inci-
dents for tho sake of open aid to England and probably will
take armed action sgainst the Axis povers in the future.
President Roosevelt's freedom of tho seas is nothing other
then tho domination of tho seas by the Anglo-Saxon race.
According to a dispatch from London, England
is regarding Presidont Roosovelt's radio broadcast as the
frank manifestation of America's determination toward the
accomplishment of the common alm of ovorthrowing Hitler and
are happy bocause this action of America will do away with
the dungers confronting British shipping.
Tho Departmont of State yesterday announcod the
sinking of anothor mericen ship by Gorman torpedo off
the const of Iceland yosterday. According to tho announco-
mont, the iontana, which was carrying lumber fron Amorica
to Iéoland, was sunk by a torpedo about 8oo kilometers
southwest of Iceland. The crow, corposed of 23 men, were
all saved, but there were no mericans among then. This
is the announcomont mado by the Departmont of State, but
it is not definito as yot what the nationality of the sub-
marine was.
According to a dispatch from Washington, Prasi-
dent Roosevelt yestorday invited Defense Coordinator
Harrinan and three others of the merican delegation se-
lcctod to go to Moscow to the Whito Houso and   ave ther
tho final instructions. The iorican dclugation ruported.
ly will be composed of 18 men, of which 5 will be the pri.
mary delegates and the reraining 13 oxports and technicians.
They aro expected to go to Moscow by way of London.
In an interviow with newspaper reportors yes-
terday, Secretary of State Hull stated as follows in regard
to America's aid to Sovict Russia: Imerica is doins overy-
thing to givo tho naximum aid to Soviet Russia, In r gard
to our aid to Soviot Russia, our spocial emissary, Harrinan,
will make a report to Soviet Russia at Moscow and Soviet m-
bassador Cumanski, too, is expocted to accompany the
Amcrican dologation to lloscow and mako a ropcrt.
According to a dispatch fron Bangkok, Japanese
-3-

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
Ambassador to Thailand Tsubokani yesterday morning callod
on the pronier of Thailand to prosent his credontials.
In view of the recognition of Manchoukuo by
Hungary, the Hungarian linistor to Japan Nicholof (?)
has been appointod to concurrently hold tho post of Hunga.
rian ministor to Manchoukuo. Io is expoctod to loavo for
Manchoukuo on Spotomber 24 to prosont his crodentials.
To pronoto trade betweon Japan and French
Indo-China, the government of French Indo-China has decided
to hold Japaneso goods exhibitions under the sponsorship
of tho Hanoi Chamber of Commorce from November 3o to Decon-
ber 28.
According to a dispatch from Shanghai, two
of the threc Russian warships, which have beon undergoing
ropairs at Shanghai since the carly part of this year, left
for Vladivostok on Soptonber 9 and 12, rospectively, Thoy
raportodly did not load anything but oil and food-stuffs.
According to a DNB dispatch, tho Gorman troops
in the north sector roportodly are naking stoady progress
and a detach:ent roportedly capturod 1,20o ononics, 12
yanks, 65 guns and many arns and anmunition on September
9 and 10.
According to an AP dispatch fron Moscow, the
Sovict High Coman announced that Soviet troops yosterday
abandoned Chornigov, 90 miles northeast of Kiev nd adnit-
tod the dangers confronting the regions north of Kiov along
tho Enepr River due
German troops.
According to a spocial conmmuniquo issued by
the Gernan High Cormand yesterday, Gomian submarines atcack-
ed a convoy of British ships in the North Atlantic yoste day
and sank 21 merchant ships, totalling 134,000 tons. Ac-
cording to another conmunique issued yostorday, the German
air forco yestorday sank three merchant ships, 2l,Ooo tons,
off the coast of Great Yarmouth, besidos danaging a light
British cruiser.
According to a special cormunique issuod by
the Italian High Corriend, the Italian air force on the night
of Septomber 11 raidod Hal ta and Cyprus. On the sane day,
tho allied air force of Gormany, Italy and Spain roportodly
raided Tobruk.
According to a dispatch fron Borlin, the
govornnont of Switzorland has lodged a protest with the
British governient through its minister in London i.. con-
noction with the flying of British planes ovor Swiss
torritorios on the nights of Soptomber 10 and 12.
.4-

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.97)
Commont on curront ovonts:
Topic"Tho perfection of the war preparation
and tho trond of the nation": A rehas of a provious pro-
paganda of tho suio thone.
Good ovening, children of Hewaii. Sumior vacation
has onded and tthe second semester of the Kokumin Gakko has
begun. Bosides studying diligently at school, the children
of Japan aro doing all kinds of patriotic services. .s has
boen ropoatedly stated, Japan has been fighting against
Chiang Kai-shek for the past five years.  In viow of the
hardships sufforod by the soldiers on the China continont,
various national servico organizations--that is, organiza-
tions of porsons wanting to sorvo their country in various
ways--have been formed in Japan to do their part bo-
hind tho line. nd tho monbers of thoso national servico
organizations are helping tho hcmes from which fathors or
brothers have been sent to the front and have cultivated
wild lands into fields and planted various kinds of vegeta-
bles to sufficiontly naintain the food supply of Japan in
this enorgency. Of those organizations, those which have
been most active, of late, aro tho studonts' national ser-
vico organizations. iodiess to say, mong tho menbers
of those national sorvico organizations are to be found
students of the Kokunin Grkko, who, like you all, aro but
ten to eloven yonrs old. Furthermore, national service or-
ganizations, conposed of studonts of the varicus univorsi-
tios, are holping in the nnnufacture of arrs and auumuni-
tion at tho various munition factorics and re alse culti-
vating wild lands into fiolds, besidos doing various other
important work in this period of omergoncy. On the other
hand, as to tho national sorvicc being rondered by the stu-
donts of the Kokunin Gakko, they are holping stores, which
are suffering fron shortags of hands caused by the calling
to the colors of somo nombers of the stores, overy Sundey.
Now, let us show you the attitude and the manner in which
those students are doing thoir part. Firstly, this is tho
inprossion of a girl student oi tho Kokunin Gakko, who was
sent out to holp at a fruit parlor: 'Since Sunday was a
busy day with many custemers making purchases, I for the
first tine roalized how plensant it was te work hard. How
tasty was the dinnor which I had at homo that eveningi
During the busy hours, I took great care in not mistaking
the orders of tho custoners and I beliove tho custonors,
too, were somewhnt courtoous becauso I had on my national
sorvice apron. They cheerfully accopted tho things I brought,
although I was poor at flattery. This contact with custonors
was cortainly a very scod experionce for ne. I will w ito
in my diary that tc work chourfully is not only good for
nyscif, but for otheis as well". Thus did tho girl studont
rolato hor oxpurience. Nextly, I would liko to tal: about
the oxperionce of a twelve year old boy student of th.
Kokunin Gakko, who was sent to help at a fish store. In
a composition, tho said student wroto as follows: "ero
-5..

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.97)
thing flashed across my mind the moment I place one foot
into the fish store. In his talk in rogard to the por-
fornance of naticnal sorvico, cur principal stated that
national sorvicc means not to rendor, but to polish up
our spirit by being allowed to holp tho fanilics, from
which the men folks had been called to the colors, and
that wo are to blame if thosc families experionco any
hardship. No matter how strong a nation's army may bo,
sho can never hope to win a war if hor spirit behind the
front is woak. For example, ict us consider the first
European war. lthough Geriany was victorious at the frent,
she lost in the ond. The reason was that the spirit of tho
women and children bolind tho frcnt was woak. In other words,
I keenly felt the importance of a strong national will at
this time, and the spirit of tho nation, tcday, should bo
one of tolerance and porsurvuronce, unmindful of cold or
hot weather". This composition really shows an oxcellent
determination, and tho studonts of the Kokumin Gakko of
Japan, all entertaining this oxcellent nental attitudo,
aro studying hard and building up their body and soul. To-
day, we have rolated to you the serious activities of the
national sorvico organizations of Tokyo and other parts of
Japan. Well, children of Hawaii, good-bye until tho next
progran.
Japanes usic.
Progran for tho coming wak.
Jop anese music.
Tomorrow's program.
Japanose national an thon.
6-

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.96)
Station JZK Program
Date 9/14/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles.
Nows:
The War Ministry today announced tho list
of tho veterans of the current canpaign who were rewarded
by the enperor today. 397 were rewarded with the Order
of tho Goldon Kite.
Admiral Shigotaro Shimada and Vice-admiral
Ibo Takahashi are oxpocted to arrive in Tokyo tonorrow
and appoar bofore the umporor to report on the situation
under their jurisdiction.
According to a dispatch from Washington,
the Dopartment of Stats yosterday announced that nother
morican ship..........,6,900 tcns, was attacked and
bombed cn the night of Septomber li at the mouth of the
Suoz Canal. This siip belongs to the morican .........
Stoanship Company and had boen oporating on the route be-
tween merics and tho Red Sea.
According to a dispatch fro: New York, tho
Imerican governmont is naking preparations to arm Averi-
can norcliant ships in view of the repeated occurrunce
of incidents. Since the arnin of morchant ships is pro-
hibited by tho noutrality Law, it is believed that the
neutrality will bo amonded or abolished.
According to a dispatch fron Now York, the
people of iorica are reparding the incidonts of tho
Atlantic as only propor in viow of orica's occupation
of Icoland and ar showing n attitudo of indifference.
This is becauso of the existonce of inportant domestie
problens and it is bolieved that the poople of ncrica
will not advocate entry into tho war until these domostic
problems are selved.
Acoording to a dispatch fren New York, tho
Now York Times' reperter on naval affairs published the
following corment in rogard to the presidunt's spooch of
Soptomber 11 on the Suptomber 13 issue or tho Now York
Tines: The now policy indicated by the president reveals
that morica has assuled a shooting war, but tho most in-
portant qostion arising as a rosult of this policy is
what will be its offoct upon Japan. lorica, for a Icng
time, has travelled aleng the course to war, both spiri-
tually and ........, but sho now is actually trying to
bring about a groator offect upen the European war. How-
over, this might bo ovorturned, dep nding upen the attitude
of Japan.
-i-

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.97)
According to a dispatch fron Borlin, a
Gorman authoritative sourco made the following romarks in
regard to the president's speech of Septomber ll: "The
prosident's sp eech, which strossed the froedon of tho
seas, will have no effect upon the diploriatic relations
botwoen America and Gornany, but will have a great effect
upon the diplomatic policy of ......... The various
measuros which are boing taken by President Roosevelt are
aimed to draw tho merican poople into the Jowish war and,
at the same time, to preserve the international position
of the Jews". In rogard to morica's shooting order, the
authoritative source failed to stato as to whother now or-
ders have beon issued to the German navy.
According to a dispatch from New York, Rear-
Admiral Adolphus Andrews, conmandant of the 3rd NavalDis-
trict, on September 13 talkod before the graduating class (?)
of the Naval Acadeny and stated that Americans should not
feol securo because the rattle-snake cf the Pacific has its
tail wound up and is calm and predicted a war between apan
and Arorica (?) in the Pacific in the future.
According to a dispatch from New York, Mrs.
Eleanor Roosevelt on Septembor 13 was appointed assistant
directer of civilian defonse and is cxpocted to assune her
duty fron Septenbor 29 in Washington.
According to a dispatch fron Washington,
the merican delegation to Moscow, hoaded by Defense Coor-
dinator Harriman, left Washington on Soptomber 13. They
are expected to head for Moscow, togother with Russian
Ambassador to America Oumanski. In viow of this activi-
ty, it is believed that tho Hoscow corference will be
held soretine this week or within ten days.
Anorica and England have sont Henry Grady and
Duff Coopor, respectively, to the Far East to make a
survey of the conditions in East asia and Lanchoukuo (?)
and the movononts of those two special onveys are being
watchd carefully because it wili have a groat offect up-
on tho East Asia policies of both corica and England.
Besidos, it is clear thnt the cin of tho BCD blos is to
obstruct tho southward movo of Japan and strengthen tho
ccononic, political and military cordon agains; Japan.
Moroover, when it is considered that Grady, after his tour
of Manila, Dutch East Indies and Singapore and Cocper, af-
ter his tour of Hongkong, Chungking and India, will moet
at Singapore, it is cloar that an understanding exists
betwwen Anorica and England and that the ains of both are
the sane. Their aim roportodly is to find cut how a dvan-
tageously the military rosourcos of Southwestern .sia are
boing mobilized in favor of England and merica and Wiat
military dofenso should bo taken to protect England and
merica's interests in the future, Honce, England and
-2-

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
America are now actively trying to strengthon their poli-
tical and cconomic cordon against Japan and to securo tho
military rosources in Southwostorn Asia to prepare for
the Pacific war.
According to a dispatch fron Saigon, the
Japanese Domarcation Dologation, headed by Yano, yestorday
called on the governor-general of Fronch Indo-China for
the first time and hold a friendly lunchoon togother.
According to a dispatch fron Saigon, the
head of the French Far Eastern University reportedly has
acceptod tho roquost of the Society for the Promotion
of Intornational Culturo to oxahange fine arts of tho
rospectivo countrios for display in tho museums of Fronch-
Indo-China and Japan.
Achiovenents of the Japaleso troops oporating
in Hunan Province--2,000 onolios killod, 100 captured,
bosides tho capture of 36 light and heavy machino guns,
270 rifles and many other arrs and anmunition.
According to a roport fron a Chines- paper
of Manila, 20 pur cent of tho 10 regiments of Filipino
troops, which were recontly inccrporated into imerica's Far
Eastorn force, lhave boon dropped for physical disability
and othor roasons. To augrent this shortago, it has been
decided to call in the resorves.
According to a dispatch fron London, the Gor-
man troops aro making ronarkable progross along the Dnopr
River and as a rosult, Eiov is confronting a sorious dan-
gor. If this progress of the Gornan troops should con-
tinue, it is boliuved that dofense of the Russian troops
Dnopr River will be seriously ondangered.
According to a dispatch fron Borlin, Gurman
submarines on Septenber 1? attaclhed a British convoy, con-
posed of 40 ships, in the I rth atlantic and succeeded in
dostroying 28 ships, totalling 164,000 tons. Besides, tho
Gorman report stated that Gornan pianes raided Suoz Canal
on Septomber 12 and mainland England on Septomber 13, caus-
ing considerable damages.
According to a communique issued by the German
High Cormand on Soptoriber 13, the German air force on
the night of Soptonber 12 sank three British ship, totalling
25,O0o tons, off the coast of Great Yarnouth, bosides
raiding the air fiulds and harbor facilities al ong tho
southwest coast of England.
Japanoso rusic.
-3-

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
Comment on current events:
Topic "The new order in Europe and America's
recent activities": (Condensed) It is being claimed that
the war, today, is being fought with two views, the construc-
tive and the destructive. The war to create a new order is
the constructive war and the war to break down this new or-
der, which is being created, is the destructive war. The
old view that war is destructive has been toppled from its
foundation by Japan's constructive effort in the current
China incident, and Germany's creation of a new order in
Europe has substantiated this. The question as to whether
the constructive or the destructive force will win is now
a matter of the past, because the world must now a dmit
that a new order is being created in two parts of the world.
The two places are East Asia and Europe. With the decline
of the fighting power of Chungking in East Asia, Japan is
gradually creating a new China. This noble project has
come to affect the various parts of East Asia, including
French IndoChina and Thailand. On the other hand, although
it appears as if tho Russo-German war is delaying the cze-
ation of a new order in Europe, it is merely an illusion
caused by the protraction of the war in contrast to Germeny's
quick victories in the previous campaigns. This idea that
a war between two great nations of the world should be
settled in two or three months must be termed a sross lack
of common sense. However, judging from the progress nade
by the Gorman troops, it can be readily imagined that the
first stage of tho war will be concluded in a comparatively
short time. This is because the German authorities have
expressed the confidence that groat progross will be made
by tho coming of Winter and that Germany will not repeat
tho failuro of Napoloon. Today, it is boing gonerally ad-
mitted that Gormany had contemplated the Russo-German war.
It is true, but Gormany did not contemplato war against
Russia because Russia would hamper the c reation of a new
order in Europe, but because it was necessary to chango
the condition in Soviet Russia in order to creato a now
order in Europe. Congequently, the slow but steady progress
of tho Gorman troops will live on as the mine creating the
now ordor. In this manner, constructive offort is being
exerted in the East and ths West. In regard to tho China
incident, it has reached its last stage. (Record indis-
tinct). Should the incident bo protracted a month longer,
to that uxtent will our constructivo effort cruato a new
China, and if it is protracted for another year, it will
mean that constructive offort will havo beon exertod to
that extont. In view of this fact, it cannot bo thought
that Chungking will bo able to resist forever, in spite of
the material aid from England and America. On the other
hand; England, who is the luader of the dostructive war-
faro in Europe, is fighting dosporately to buoak down the
new ordor, which is being croatod, and to maintain her
domination of the world. Nevertheless, England has ro.
voalcd tho great loss of her fighting power only after
one yoar of tho war. But with the cutbreak of the nsco-
-4-

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
German war, she took on now life and succeeded in winning
over America. Thus, she is standing on the front lino
of tho destructive war with America in the back as her
supply baso. Consequently, America has come to draw the
attention of the world as the nation holding the key as to
whether the war will develop into a destructive or con-
structive war. However, tho powers of America, unfortunate-
ly, aro busily oxerting their effort toward tho aggrava-
tion of the destructive war. (Record indistinct). Con-
sequently, tho world has come to regard with imterest
Presidemt Roosevelt's talks. However, all of his talks
have only disappointed the advocators of world poace.
Even tho merican govornment's first attitude toward the
Europoan war was to draw closor to the war. It appears
as if the American people found some consolation in tho
government's first step--that of ostablishing Amoric's
territorial waters and later expanding it to aid to
England. However, the poliey of President Roosevelt's re-
gime has unwittingly drawn Amorican closor and closer to the
war, and tho waters to be defended by Anerica was extended
into the war zone in no tine, resulting in the clashing of
intercst (?) with Germany. As a result, the USs Greer in-
cident occurred. For tho merican public, this was the
first warning, In fact, the Groer incidont did not shock
imerica's public opinion so greatly. Instead, thoughtful
Americans were surprised at the extent to which America's
aid to England had beon extended to such a dangerous posi-
tion. Those opposed to participation in the war pointed
to the f act that the morican ship had entered the danger
zone of her own accord and revealed and criticized tho in-
tention of the govornment to provoko incidents. Neverthe-
less, tho Groer incident was used for a purposo contrary
to the views of tho thoughtful imericans. It seemed that
tho American ogvornment thought that this was the time to
excito tho war-fever of the morican people. The talk made
by Prosident Roosevelt on the night of Suptombor 1l was
based on this judgment and was extremely inflmatory. of
course, because of tho public sontimont, imorica's concrete
plan was not revealed (?) and the froudon of the seas was
stressed fron tho boginning to the ond. However, the pre.
sident's talk, which started out with tho statement that
what America is about to carry out is puroly a dofensivo
and not an offensive measure, was very strong in tono and
appoared like an impulsive challenge to Germany and Italy.
It appeared moro liko a declaration of war, and the climax
of the talk was the revival of America's claim for the
freedom of the seas and that any ixis warship or planc
sailing or flying wi thin morica's patrol zone will be
shot without warning. In othor words, it should bo noted
that Amorica's action is unwittingly drawing tho nation
closor to a great dangor. So long as such policy of the
American government is maintained, it must bo regardel that
a second and even a third unfortunato incident will occur,
because tho strengthening of the attitude of Gorman, who is
-5

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
burning with indignation against. America's attitude, has
strengthened the possibility of the occurrence of such in-
cidents. In regard to the freedom of the soas, it is a
childish argument to clamor for tho freedom of the seas
while siding with one of tho belligoront parties and
openly conducting hostilc patrol. However, the question
is no longer one of reason, but concerns the open anti-
German feeling expressed in the talk. In spite of the
dominating anti-war sentiment of America, it must be re-
garded that the hostile relations betweon Gernany and
America has been furthered a stop. at the samo time, the
most important question is to what extent will the abso-
lute power of President Roosevelt be strengthoned against
this power merican sentiment under the circumstances.
In other words, it must be rogarded that the develcpment
of the Gorman-merican rolations, whether good or bad,
will have a great offoct upon tho constructive forco.
Dance music
(Recorder failed to record the latter part of
this program, which usually includes a talk).
-6

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
Station JZK Program
Datc 9/15/41
Froquency 15,160 Kilocycles.
(Recordor's note: JZK coming in very poorly to-
night. Also noise level high).
Nows:
Sonething abcut the return of sono Jap aneso
admiral (soundod like Takashi ) to Tokyo.
Something about tho transfor of some naval
officers.
Something about Lianchoukuo's anniversary.
Sonothing about Hanchoukuo's foroign office
reomphasizing tho Hanchoukuo-Japan agroenent.
Somothing about the activitios of the Jape-
nese troops in Honan Province.
Something about the colebration of Air De-
fense Day on Suptembor 20
Somothing about & Fronch warship visiting
Tokyo.
Something about an ll-Japan swiming meet
hold at Jingu Swimming Pool cn Sopteinber 13 and 14.
Somothing about Corman troops making stoady
progress in Leningrad area and cutting off the railway
connecting Kiev with Moscow.
(There were about three other reports on the
Russo-Gernan war, but record was too poor to trenslate).
Something about the bulgarian government
calling a meoting of tho mobilization committee.
Somothing about English authorities denying
the negotiation for peace with Finland (?).
Somothing about Gorman air force raiding a
convoy of British sliips off Groat Yarnouth.
Sonothing about Finland proparing to sond an
oconomic missicn to Berlin,
Something about a Norwogian ship being attached
-1-

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
by British warships.
Something about tho arrival of America's
delogation to Moscow in London.
Sorething about tho criticisn of Editor
Gayda in regard to the President's spocch. One phrase
mentioned the failure of merica's attempt to s care
Gernany and Italy.
Somothing about Britain strongthening her
force in Malay
Nows of tho past woek:
News about the mobilization of electric po-
wer.
News of the transfer of naval officers.
News of tho shake-up of army officers.
News of the reorganization of the Home Af-
fairs linistry and the Comnercc and Industry Ministry.
News of the appointment of Yoshizawa as
Japan's sp ecial envoy to French Indo-China.
Nows of the Japaneso troops achiovemonts in
North China rogions.
Dance music.
(Translator's noto: Rocorder apparently stopped
recording due to tho poor recoption condition).
-

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
ABVISER
NOV 12 1941
REPORT
AMERICAN BEAM
NOV14 1941
C:risign of
FAR ERSTERN AFFAIRS
1941
Radio Tokyo continues to treat the subject of the KurusuDepartment of State
mission to Washington in a desultory manner. Evidences of
"backing-down" or of "moderation" regarding the United States
are less apparent on the shortwave than they are in the Japanese
press. Great emphasis is placed on the "gravity" of the Kibi Maru
sinking, and on the "fabricated so-called Southeast Asia crisis."
Tokyo seems bent on building up grievances both to the South and
the North. Koh Ishii's facetious reference to freedom of the seas
894.76/62
is used as part of Tokyo's studied "eat-your-words" theme, which
894.76
is apparently carried on for possible future use in the event of
new Japanese military thrusts when American hypocrisy would again
have to be stressed.
Tokyo radio gives the impression that the domestic press is
treating the Kurusu mission in a discrepant, almost perplexed fashiong
P
All the newspapers apparently agree with NICHI NICHI in the state-
ment, "The limit to which Japan can go is definitely decided," but
while NICHI NICHI nonetheless urges the people to "prepare for the
worst," ASAHI argues that if the United States has "even a litt
6
0V 14 1941
respect for Japan's stand, a peaceful settlement will not be
FILED
impossible."
Tokyo is becoming more and more incautious in its editorial
treatment of questions relating to the Soviet Union. Detailed
reparts

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
oports are read over the shortwave of Russia's illegal floating
mines ... . Koh Ishii is extensively quoted to the effect that
the sinking is a "matter of extreme gravity." ... The radio
comment on this incident stands in sharp contrast to the
unemotional and objective treatment of the September sinking of
a Japanese vessel by a floating Russian mine.
... Other evidences of the same trend are seen in a unique
commentary in which Roosevelt is charged with "grasping the sin-
stained hand of Stalin;" ... the revived reports of Japanese
drives against "Chinese communists," and of "Communist-Kuomintang"
olashes in Chungking; ... .
While Tokyo radio almost frantically denies the "fabricated
rumors" of a Japanese drive into Burma or Thailand, the radio has
never bothered to deny similiar foreign news reports of the massing
of Japanese troops on the borders of Manchukuo, or comparable
foreign speculations on the possibility of an eventual opportunistic
Japanese drive into Siberia.

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.94)
DeR
VER
Federal Burean of Jnvestigation
Anited States Department of Justire
Washington,D.U.
November 14, 1941
RECHIVED
PERSONAL AND
Assistant Secretary of State
NOV 1 4 1941
894.76/63
MR. BERLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible interest
70
I am transmitting herewith translated transcripts of radio
broadcasts from Tokyo, Japan for the period October 1l,
1941 to October 15, 1941.
PS/PLS
Sincerely yours,
Le. 2Aoover
PLS
Enclosures
NOV 2 6 1941
FILET
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Department of State
7.
7
Justice Depastiment Guidedene, 1.27.1984
5.16.1984
By RIG

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10/11/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
Achievements of the Japanese troops in Central China
during the past two years-- Fought against 1,800,000 enemy troops,
killed 121,400, captured 18,000, in addition to the surrendering of
60,000 enemy troops, and wounding about 400,000.
According to a dispatch from Hankem, our troops, occu-
pying Jisho in Hupeh Province, repulsed the counter attack of the
Chinese troops the day before yesterday and killed about 1,200 enemy
troops. In spite of this, Chungking issued a false propaganda claim-
ing the recapture of Jisho.
Achievement of the Japanese troops operating in Chekiang
during the past week -- killed 3,037 enemy troops, captured 433 and
many arms and ammunitions.
Prince Takamatsu yesterday was elected as president of
the Italo-Japanese Association.
The Japan-China-Manchoukuo economic conference was held
for four d ys at the Planning Bureau. (Record began to dic off.)
(Recorder's note: JZK suddenly went off air as though
transmitter failed).

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10/12/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Japanese music.
News:
According to a dispatch from New York, the German troops
are making steady progress on all sides toward Moscow. On October!,
they reportedly captured Tula and advanced to a point 14o kilometers
south of Moscow. In view of the danger confronting Moscow, the
Russian government on October 1l reportedly issued an order for the
evacuation of all women and children from Moscow. On the other hand,
the German troops fighting in the south sector reportedly wiped out
two Russian divisions with the aid of the German air force and have
captured Taganrog. In regard to this, the German High Command on
October 11 issued a special communique claiming the conclusion of the
fight in the south. The communique also stated that the German troops
in the south sector have captured 106,300 Russian troops, 212 armored
trucks and tanks and 672 guns since September 26.
In accordance with the order issued by Eirikko, commander-
in-chief of the first defense area, the Chinese third division
reportedly has taken up defense positions in the area southwest of
Teishu and are attempting to recapture Telshu and the neighboring
regions. However, the achievements of the Japanese troops in Hunan,
as of October 11, include 2,600 Chinese troops killed, 300 captured,
besides the capture of 350 rifles and many arms and ammunition.
Similar progress is being made by tho Japanese troops in Shangtung
Province.
Yesterday, October 1l, was the day the Japanese troops
made a landing at Bias Bay three years ago and started their drive
toward Canton. And it was today, three years ago, that Canton was
captured, thus cutting off the supply line of Chungking from the
south.
After negotiating with the American government, the Japan-
ese government yesterday announced the resumption of passenger service
between Japan and America from October 15. It was announced that the
Tatsuta Maru, Nitta Maru and Taiyo Maru will be dispatched to America.
Of these three ships, the Tatsuta Maru will leave on October 15 for
Hawaii and then sail to San Francisco. At the same time, the Japan-
ese government announced that the dispatching of these ships does not
mean that Japan plans to evacuate the Japanese residing in America.
To make a survey of the financial condition in the various
parts of Manchoukuo, North China, Mongolia and Central China, .....
left Tokyo this morning. After visiting Ise Shrine on the way, he
will leave for his destination from Kobe on October 14.
To promote friendly relations with the students from Man-
choukuo and China in Japan, the East Asia Students' Federation today
-1-

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
leld a social in Tokyo and invited about 204 Chinese students studying
in Japan. After the social, they visited the Chinese embassy and con-
ferred with the Chinese embassador, who is scheduled to return to
Nanking shortly.
A year has passed since the National Support Society was
organized and today, October 12, is its first anniversary. To com-
memorate this anniversary, the National Support Society held a simple
ceremony today.
An electrical method to investigate underground water has
been devised by .........Iwata, of the electrical experiment division
of the Communication Ministry. In the past, holes had to be dug in
order to investigate under-ground water and this method took a long
time. By the new method, under-ground water can be investigated
without digging holes.
With representatives of England, America and Chungking
finally gatherod in Hongkong, the economic conference will shortly
be started. This conference will result in nothing other than Amer-
ica strengthening her hands in Chungking, it is rumored.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, all the newspapers in
Germany are regarding the conclusion of the trade agreement between
Turkey and Germany as the greatest event of the week. They are
regarding it an an indication that Turkey, though not militarily,
will cooperate with Germany economically in the creation of a new
order in Europe.
The Italian political circles are regarding the recent
coup d'etat of Panama as America's aggressive policy. Their senti-
ment is that the aim of President Roosevelt is to lead America into
the war and in order to do this, he is advocating the nullification
of the Neutrality Law and has even demanded of Panama the arming of
her merchant ships. However, due to the fact that the Panamanian
government rejocted this demand, America instigated the coup d'etat
and brought about the reorganization of the government; and when we
consider what America did to separate Colombia from Panama in order
to protect herPanama Canal and her present hand in the coup d'etat,
we can see the nature of America's aggressive policy clearly.
According to a dispatch from London,........a weekly maga-
zine, published in London, criticized the economic relations between
England and merica, as follows: Taking advantage of the necessity
of England to receive aid from America, American industrialists have
....... the market of England. Besides, it is only proper for America
to aid England, because England is fighting for America's sake. In-
fluential men of London are calling Harriman a Red who is appraising
our homes, and that is an appropriate remark.
Comment on current events:
Topic "30th anniversary of the Chinese revolution":
The title is very misleading, for it was nothing but propaganda of
-2-

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
he achievments of the Japanese troops operating in China--namely,
how the Japanese troops are working toward the preservation of the
aim, for which the Chinese rebelled thirty years ago. The speaker
explained this aim as making Asia "Asia for the Asiatics" by wiping
away the influences of the European and American countries from Asia.
The greater part of the remainder of the talk was spent in talking
about the recent achievements of the Jap m ese troops, the attempts of
Chungking to deny these successes in order to receive aid from Eng-
land and America and the aim of Engl and and America in China. This
aim of England and America was explained as the acquisition of the
natural resources of China and to accomplish this aim, the speaker
mentioned that England and America is attempting to obstruct Japan's
creation of a new order in Eest Asia. The speaker concluded his talk
with a strong statement that Japan is determined to wipe away the
obstacles laid before her by England and America.
Japanese music.
Japan ese national anthem.
-3

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
tation JZK Program
Date 10/13/41
Freguency 15,160 Kilocycles
News:
According to reports from various quarters, the spearhead
of the German troops reportedly have reached Podolsk. In view of
the fact that the German troops have concluded their campaign in the
south on October 1l and also their campaign in the neighboring regions
of Vyazma and Bryansk, it is believed that their whole strength will
be turned toward Moscow. Consequently, it is believed that they will
reach their objective within two or three weeks.
According to a dispatch from British sources, the greater
part of the Soviet Government has been evacuated and Stalin, too,
reportedly has fled from Moscow.
According to a special communique issued by the German
High Command on October 11, the German troops have routed the Russian
troops in the neighboring regions of Vyazma and Bryansk and are head-
ing toward Moscow. Even the Russian High Command has admitted the
retreat of the Russian troops from Bryansk. The number of Russians
captured in this area is believed to be over 200,000.
According to a dispatch from the front, the Japanese
troops have started a new offensive against the Chinese troops
striving to recapture Ichang. The Japanese troops reportedly have en-
circled the Chinese troops and are reportedly tightening the encircle-
ment. The achievements of the Japanese troops in this area from Sep-
tember 28 to October 5 are, as follows: Killed 7,492 enemy troops,
captured 285 Chinese troops and many arms and ammunition.
According to a dispatch from the front, the Japanese
troops operating in Shangtung Province reportedly have encircled the
Chinese Red Army operating near the border of Shangtung and Kiangsu
and are threatening to annihilate the entire army. The achievements
of the Japm ese troops to date include 371 killed, 93 captured, be-
sides the capture of 209 rifles and many arms and ammunition.
To increase the knowledge of the Japanese people in re-
gard to the South Seas, a South Seas exhibition will be held at the
Mitsukoshi Department Store in Tokyo from October 17 to November 2
under the auspkces of the Nippon Takushoku Kyokai (Japan Colonization
Association). Customs and other things of the South Sea Islands,
Thailand, Malaya, Philippines, Australia and French Indo-China will
be shown.
According to a dispatch from Saigon, the Chinese delega-
tion to establish a trade bureau in Saigon arrived in Saigon today
from Hanoi.
On board a ship, which arrived in Moji yesterday, 16
Japanese evacuees from British Burma returned and stated as follows:
Lately, great many Australian troops have been landed and British
planes have been seen flying almost daily. The people of Burma, in

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
eneral, are pro-Japanese and are eager to hear news about Japan.
Although they went to alienate themselves from England and America,
they are easily misled by propaganda because they are not well in
formed of Japan. Consequently, England and America busily propagan-
dizing through the radio and motion pictures.
According to a dispatch from London, two conflicting
opinions are being voiced in England. That is, the leftist group is
urging immediate military aid to Soviet Russia, while the conserva-
tive (?) group is advocating the withholding of military aid until
such time as England is fully prepared.
According to a DNB report, the German air force on Octo-
ber 11 and 12 raided Leningrad and Moscow and also took part in the
campaign along the shores of Azov. The number of planes they shot
down from October 11 to October 12 is 101 planes.  On the other hand,
the German air force sank five British freighters, totalling 12,000
tons.
News of the past week;
News of the Japm ese troops' operations in China.
News of the granting of rewards to the veterans of the
current war by the emperor.
News of the observance of the first anniversary of the
National Support Society on October 12.
News of the survey made by the Education Ministry, in
which youths expressed their desire to go abroad and make their
living. (To Manchuokuo and China)
News of the plans being mede to observe the loth anniver-
sary of Manchuokuo next year.
News of a survey made of a certain island and the report
that it is habitable. (Name of the island was very indistinct.)
News of the plan to send a Japanese delegation to French
Indo-China to make a survey of her natural resources.
Hungarian music.
Japn ese national anthem.

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/14/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Japanese music
Radio drama
News:
The Japanese troops encircled and annihilated 30,000
Chinese troops in the mountainous region east of Ichang, Hupeh
Province, yesterday. As a result, the Chinese troops, which were
concentrated at a point west of Ichang, lost their fighting spirit
and started retreating northwestwardly. However, the Japanese air
force pursued and inflicted serious damage upon the retreating
force.
According to an announcement made by the Japm ese High
Command in Central China, Chiang Kai-shek, in an attempt to regain
the confidence of the third powers, ordered the Chinese 5th and 6th
divisions to recapture Ichang. However, the commanders of the said
divisions, knowing full well the futility of their task, dispatched
only a part of their divisions toward Ichang, and made a false report
of their achievement to Chungking to save their neck. Hence, Chiang
Kai-shek is trying to regain the confidence of the third powers with
his false propaganda.
Although diplomatic negotiation for the restoration of
friendly relations between Japan and America is being carried on,
America's policy toward the Far East hax not been changed. It has
continued the aid to Chiang and the strengthening of the economic
pressure against Japan. In regard to this, the Tokyo Nichi-Nichi of
today. published an editorial, in which she manifested Japan's
determination and urged the reconsideration of America, as follows:
So long as America clings to the out-modelled Nine Power Treaty, the
Japanese-American negotiation will fall through. The new situation
of East Asia recognizes the necessity for the amendment of the Nine-
Power Treaty. The creation of a new order in East Asia is a product
of this new situation. Moreover, it is the crystallization of the
sweat and blood of 140,000 soldiers who have died, and 1,000,000
officers and men. It is also a noble task, for which our country
has made a great sacrifice. So long as America is blind to this
reality, no prediction as to the future of the Japm ese-American
negotiation can be made. Should America continue her hostile pro-
Chiang acts, Japan will be compelled to assume a grave determination
to cope with the situation.
The Communication Ministry and the Information Bureau
today simultaneously announced the consummation of a treaty between
Jap an and Portugal yesterday. According to this treaty, an airway
will be established between Palao and Deli, Timor, a distance of
2,500 kilomters. The establishment of this airway will draw the
South Sea Islands closer to Japan.
-1-

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
Carrying 539 Japanese evacuees from Malaya, the Osaka
Shosen liner, Fuso Maru, today arrived in Moji. According to the
passengers, the port of Singapore is completely laid with mines and
even the streets are lined with pill-boxes. Consequently, the city
is like a fortress. The day before the departure of the ship, a mine
broke loose and caused considerable confusion. Furthermore, when
members of the crew went ashore and returned to the ship, they were
compelled to t ake off their clothing and shoes and undergo a thorough
examination. Besides, airplanes, making practice flights, often flew
close to the ship and maneuvered about as though in a battle. At
night, they dropped bombs and these bombs often dropped close to the
ship and caused great columns of water to spout.
According to a dispatch from New York, Stslin repor-
tedly has shifted a part of the Russia Far Eastern force to the
European front and is also sending factory workers to the front in
order to stem the German drive. Besides, although Stalin has re-
quested military aid from England, Engl nd is only perfunctorily
raiding German occupied territories in spite of the fact that she has
about 4,000,000 men under arms. Consequently, Russia's indignation
toward England is rising day by day.
According to a Helsinki report, a large number of
British troops has been landed at Arkhangelsk. If this is true, this
is the first time the British troops have been landed on the Ruropean
continent since the beginning of the Russo-German war, but it is
being regarded as merely Britain's gesture toward Russia in view of
Stalin's reproaches against Britain. Canadian troops reportedly are
among those that have been landed at Arkhangelsk.
According to a dispatch from Washington, the foreign
affairs committee of the lower House held a public hearing yesterday
in regard to the nullification of the neutrality law. Those who tes-
tified before the committee and stressed the necessity for the nul-
lification of the said law, vacated their seats in the midst of the
hearing. This is being regarded as their gesture of protest against
the attempts of the majority party to make the hearing a semi-public
hearing. Consequently, considerable criticism is being voiced against
the government's attempt to nullify this law so high-handedly. Further
more, Sen. Wheeler yesterday expressed his objection against the re-
pealing of the neutrality law and the arming of merchant ships, as
follows: "The arming of merchant ships is nothing but a measure
that will invite attacks rather than assist in protection. If Presi-
dent Roosevelt's intention is not to aggravato the prèsent war, then,
I find it hard to understand why he is attempting to arm merchant
ships. Besides, in regard to the priority of war materials, consider-
able dissatisfaction is being voiced within the industrial circles."
According to a dispatch from Bangkok, Wanitto (Phonetic)
has been acquitted of the charge that he is a traitor who has enabled
Japan to make considerable profits by the court of inquiry. It is
believed that England, attempting to drive Wenitto out of office, had
spread the false rumor: of Wanitto's traitorous act.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
Comment on current events:
Topic "A review of the week's diplomatic trend". To-
day, our country, under the great ideal of universal concordia, is
making a sturdy stride toward the creation of a mutual prosperity
sphere in East Asia. In Burope, Germany and Italy are striving day
and night to create a new order in Europe, too. What Japan is
aiming at in East Asia, and Germany and Italy in Europe, is nothing
other than the establishment of real world peace based on righteous-
ness. Against this, Britain and America are making every effort to
protect the crumbling democratic array. In Europo, this is being
manifested as American aid to Britain and Russia in the war between
Germany and Italy against Britain and Russia. In the Far East, she
is carrying on various activities, such as encouraging Chungking,
Dutch East Indies, Burma and Malaya to form the ABCD anti-Japanese
encirclement. In this manner, the struggle between the old and the
new is being furthered in a complicated manner in the East and the
West, and it appears as if the new order is making a steedy gain over
the old order. Nevertheless, there appear, at times, signs as
though the old order is pressing the new order, but we should not be
misled by such signs,but should grapp hold of the correct flow of
history. This knowledge is necessary to look at the situation in
East Asia. Although your attention is probably cast upon the transi-
tion of the situation of the world, especially of East Asia, from
the old to the new, we have decided to review the diplomatic happen-
ings of the week every week at this time to give you an accurate
picture of the ever changing and complic ted situation. The impor-
tant happenings of this week are the recent great developments of
Russo-German war, the economic conference of Britain, America and
Chungking at Hongkong, following the British-American conference at
Manila, and the development of America's aggressive Central and South
American policy. Now, let us begin with the Russo-German war. It
was thought that the Russo -German war might pass over the winter in a
stale-mated state, but contrary to this general prediction, a great
offensive against Moscow was started this week. In regard to the
morale of the German troops, it can be readily perceived by the
statement made by.............., director of Germany's newspaper
bureau (?), on October 9 to the effect that this new offtnsive of
Germany will wipe out the last strength of the Soviet troops and will
make Soviet Russia no longer an existing enemy and also by the pro-
clamation issued by Chencellor Hitler to the officers and men of the
German army to the offect that we must destroy the last strength of
the Red Army before winter comes and this offenaive certainly will
crown with glory the achievements we have achieved thus far, for
Soviet Russia will be absolutely destroyed militarily by this final
offensive of ours. As expected, this ignited the morale of the whole
army, and reports of German superiority along all fronts are being
received. That is, Gen. Budenny's army in the south has been com-
pletely annihilated alongthe shores of the Sea of Azov, while Gen.
Voroshilov's army in the north is being ......... in Leningrad. In
the central sector, Gen. Timoshenko's army has been driven back from
Bryansk, Vyazma, and Orel. Hence, the German troops are now only
about 40 kilometers away from Moscow. In this area, 350,000 Russian
troops reportedly have been captured and an order for the evacua tion
-3-

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
of women and children reportedly ha been issued in Moscow already.
Thus, it can be seen that the fate of Moscow is like a candle
flickering in the wind. In view of defeat of Soviet Russia in
Europe and the decisive defeat of Chungking in East Asia, Britain
and America are extremely perturbed. In England, the parliament is
critieizing the passive nature of Churchill's cabinet's aid to Soviet
Russia and is demanding the formation of a new cabinet. At the same
time, the opinion advocating the landing of British troops on the
continent to ass.ist Russia has come to the fore. However, the
British gtovernment has revealed that it would be impossible to under-
take such a task with her present military strength. If the German
troops continue to maintain their prcsent superiority, it will have
a considerable effect upon the situation of the world, to say nothing
of its military effect. Conseguently, Britain and America are regard-
ing the outcome of the Russo-German war with a desperate look. This
is because the method of aid discussed at the Moscow conference would
become useless depending on tho developments of the coming week or
two. Besides, it is much more obvious than looking at a fire that a
friction will result in the relations between Britain and America, and
Soviet Russia, should Britain and America's aid to Soviet Russia be
unable to keep abreast of the fast progress of the German troops towerd
Moscow. Furthermore, who can tell whether Russia's promise not to
conclude a separate peace vith Germany, together with her other
promises made in the Anglo-Russian military pact, will be kept. What
is more, it has become impossible to ignore the indirect effect of
the outcome of tho Russo-German war upon East Asia, especially upon
the present Pacific problems. Hcrein lies the great significance of
the outcome of the Russo-German war. This is the reason why the
nations of the world are seriously regarding the developments of the
Russo-German war from thcir respective positions. Nextly, let us
consider the Eritain-America-Chungking economic confcrence held at
Hongkong following the Manila conference. This conference was held
with such persons as Henry Grady and Hope as leaders. The subject of
discussion, without doubt, was the strengthening of Chungking's
economy through Britain's and America's aid. Since it is obvious
that no agreement can be reached between these three, whose position
differs, It is only proper to regard that America wiil eventually
come to hold complete control of Chungking. Furthermore, it has
beon reported that an American military missi on has reached Chungking
and is drawing up some sort of scheme. As indicated by Britain's and
America's Manila conference and their Hongkong conference, their Far
Eastern policy is becoming more and more positive. However, as I
have previously explained, this can be regarded as their move to con-
ceal their confusion caused by Sovlet Russia's dcfeat in the war.
With their anxiety in regard to Germany's offensive against Britain
and in the Near East after her decisive victory in the Russo-German
war increasing all the more, it is not hard to presume that Britain
and America, in their attempt to maintain the peace on the Pacific,
will inevitably mitigate their past anti-Japanese intimidation and
threats and attempt somc sly diplomatic negotiation. Even if this is
reflected in the present negotiation between Jann and America and
some tempting offor is made, our country, which Is striving for the
accomplishment of the Incident end the creation of a new order in East
Asia, will not be swayed, but will carefully watch the developments
and strive for the extablishment of peace in East Asia as well as in

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
the world. Lastly, let us consider the other important happenings.
In Panama, a pro-American coup d'etat was carried out and resulted in
the formation of a new cabinet. This is being regarded as America's
doing because of Panama's rejection of America's demand to arm her
chant ships. Furthermore, a loan agreement reportedly has been
signed between Brazil and America. Both of these are descriptive
manifestation of America's Central and South American policy. How-
ever, since 13 of the .......... of the Central and South American
nations are of German origin and are all politically and economically
powerful, the future of America's Central and South American policy
cannot necessarily be said to be safe.
Domestic news:
News was from Okayama, Shimane, Tottori, Hiroshima and
Yamaguchi Prefectures. In Okayama, it was reported that a plan is
being made to develop three places under a five year plan, that a
requiem mass was held in honor of Koki Sakuraya, first man to fly
with wings, at Hachigoma-machi, his birth place, that a new depot has
been constructed at Kurashigc and that a branch of the Japan Indus-
trial Promotion Company will be established in the said prefecture.
In Shimane Prefecture, it was reported that plans are being made to
incorporate the town of Izumo into a city, that 34 youths returned
from Manchoukuo after three months of national service on Japanese
managed farms and that youths avaiation corps will be organized to
stir up aviation interest among the youths. In Tottori Prefecture,
it was reported that Hisamatsu Park has been remodolled, that the ski
ground on Mt. Inazo has also been remodelled, that Yonago Air Pilot
Training School graduated its eighth graduating class recently and
that the only cherry tree. that blossons three times a year is now in
full.bloom. In Hiroshima Prefecture, it was reported that 3C youths
left for Manchoukuo on October 7 fôr the purpose of colonization and
that a new shrine is to be created shortly. In Yamaguchi Prefecture,
it was reprted that a delegation has left for the front to comfort
the soldiers at the front.
Japamese national anthem.
-5

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
Station JZK Program
Date 10/15/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
A story by a professional story teller.
News:
The final papers settling the border between Outer
Mongolia and Manchouluo were signed today, October 15, at Harbin,
where representatives of both countries had been conferring since
September 23. A statement in regard to the settlement of this border
was issued by the foreign office of Manchoukuoan government today.
The War Ministry today announced its annual shake-up
of personnel. According to the shake-up, Lt. Gen. Shigemitsu (?)
Tanaka, provost-marshal, has been appointed to commander-in-chief of
the Eastern Defense Force. As his successor, Lt. Gen. ......Nakamura,
formerly head of the military and administrative bureaus of the War
Ministry, has been appointed to the post of provost-marshal. Col.
Mabuchi, head of the information bureau of the Imperial Military
Headquarters, has been appointed as commander of a certain detachment.
As his successor, Col. .......Ohira, instructor at the military aca-
demy, has been anpointed. Furthermore, Col. Sato and Chiba (?) have
been promoted to major-generals.
In regard to the Japanese-American negotiation, the
newspapers of Tokyo commented upon it today and expressed their
opinion that a Japenese-American negotiation is of no use, so long as
America continues to maintain her hostile attitude on one hand and
attempts to negotiate on the other hand.
The Autumn festival of the Yasukuni Shrine will be
held from tomorrow. As a prelude to the festivity, 15,00o souls of
the soldiers who had fought at the front were enshrined today.
As has been reported previously, the Japanese govern-
ment has decided to dispatch the Tatsuta Maru, the Mikawa Maru and
Taiyo Maru to America to resume passenger sorvice between the two
countries. The first of these three ships, Tatsuta Maru, left for
San Francisco by way of Honolulu at 5 p.m. today from Yokohama.
The third transfer of warships from the Japanese navy
to the Chinese navy was conducted this afternoon at Canton. Three
warships were transferred today, bringing the total number of war-
ships thus far transferred to nine.
The Osaka Shosen liner, Fuso Maru, carrying on board
362 evacuees from Singapore, arrived in Kobe yesterdey. The evacuees
are all indignant about the treatment accorded them by the British
authorities at Singapore.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
According to reports received, the German. troops
driving toward Moscow are now but 27 kilometers away from Moscow, and
the number of Russian troops captured at Vyazma and Bryansk repor-
tedly is not less than 500,000. Vyazma reportedly is a city of ruins,
caused by the scorching earth policy of the Russi an troops prior to
their withdrawal.
According to a DNB dispatch, the Russian troops en-
circled at Leningrad are attempting to break through the German en-
circlement, but are being repeatedly repulsed.
The Russian High Command issued a communique today ad-
mitting the withdrawal of Russian trcops from Mariupol on the shore
of the Sea of Azov.
According to a dispatch from Berlin, the German govern-
ment today announced that the number of Russian troops captured and
wounded since the outbreak of the war totals 6,000,O00. Of these,
over 3,O00,000 have been captured and this figure is still increasing.
According to a dispatch from London, Premier Churchill
yesterday refused to comment on the war situation before the parlia-
ment with a remark that it would be best to leave everything up to the
Russian High Command, thus admitting the defeat of Russia and making
no attempt to discuss any plan to help her.
(A news item in regard to Britain's aid to Russia was
interrupted by static at this point).
According to a dispatch from Washington, John .......
a public prosecutor of New York, vesterday expressed his objection
to the arming of merchant ships before the house committee on foreign
affairs to the effect that it is not right for the president to lead
America into the war without discussing the value of declaring war
with Congress. Hence, the objection against arming of merchant ships
is becoming stronger day by day.
Comment on current events:
Topic "A foreslght of the Russo-German War":
It was nothing but German pronaganda voiced through the mouth of a
Japanese. The greater part of the talk was spent in outlining the
achievements accomplished thus far by the German troops. Toward the
end of the talk the aim of Hitler was explained as the complete
annihilation of the Russian army, instead of the capture of Moscow.
This, it was explained, would prevent Russia from carrying on a
guerrilla warfare, thus enabling Germany to withdraw her army from
that area and strike against Britain with renewed vigor. 80 per cent
of this aim, according to the commentator, has been accomplished and
the end should come in about two or three weeks. In this event, the
commentator stated, the fall of England will be but a matter of time.
Hence, England and America are greatly perturbed. In the first
place, the commentator explained, England and America's aid was not
for the purpose of helpiig Russia to win the war, but to contribute
toward the exhaustion of the Russian and the German armies through
the protraction of the war. In view of their failure to achieve this

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.97)
aim, the commentator concluded that America. eventually will be com-
pelled to take part in the war on the side of England.
Japanese music
Tomorrow's program
Japanese national anthem
-3-

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.92)
Dek
Afivision of
FAI EASTERN AFFAIRS
Federal Burean of Jnmestigatiod
NOV 19 1941
xtted States Department of Justre
那ashington,D.U.
RAHIVED
Department of State
NCV 1 8 1941
vember 14, 1941
PERSONAL AND
Hondraple Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary f State
Departmert "6otate
NOV I 4 1941
Washington, D. C.
MR. BERLE
894.76/64
My dear Mr. Berle:
For your information and as of possible interest
894.76
I am transmitting herewith translated transcripts of radio
broadcasts fron Tokyo, Japan for September 16, 28, 29, 30,
and October 5 to 10, 1941, inclusive.
Sincerely yours,
J
Le. 2Aoover
S
Enclosures
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
NOV 2 6 1941
FILPT
HV 21041
DECLASSIFIED
Justice Depaitment Guitelnis, 1.27.1984
By R1G
NARS, Date 5.16.1984

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
1on JZK Program
te 9/16/41
Frequency 15,160 Kilocycles
Comic talk
Japanese music
News:
At today's cabinet meeting, plans for the controlling
of funds and exports and imports to Manchoukuo and China were decided.
The empcror yesterday sent a message of congratulation
to the president of Mexico on the anniversary of its independence.
Manchoukuo yesterday observed the 10th anniversary of
the founding of the country with various kinds of celebrations.
Japanese astronomers at Hankow, Keelung, and ......
have completed their preparation for the observation of the total
eclipse of the sun on September 21.
A report has been received stating that the 32 men,
who left Yokohama on July 17 to salvage the Arima Maru, which went
aground near Marinto Island (phonetic) off the coast of Peru during
the middle part of May, succeeded in refloating the said shin yester-
day, September 15.
According to a statement of the German High Command
issued yesterday, the Soviet troops have built pill-boxes at every
important point around Leningrad and besides mining the area in front
of the pili-boxes, they have dug tank traps, two meters deep and
three meters wide, to prevent the progress of German tanks. However,
the German troops have already surmounted the majority of these
defense obstacles and are bombing the important facilities wi thin the
city with long range guns. Besides, cooperating with the Finnish
troops, who are advancing southward from the north, the German troops
have already driven the 4,500,000 people of Leningrad into an area of
5,00o kilometers square. Hence, the fall of Leningrad is now a matter
of time.
According to a communique issued by the German High
Command, the German troops have succeeded in breaking through the
first line of defense of the Russian troops at Leningrad, thus en-
dangering the fate of Leningrad. Along the other fronts, the German
troops are also making steady progress. In regard to this, a dispatch
from London admits the cutting off of the railway lines from Chernigov
to Kiev and from Kremenchug to Kiev and the crossing of the Dnepr
River by the Germans in the south. Besides, the Soviet authorities
admitted the abandonment of Kremenchug.
According to a DNB report of September 15, the German
air force on September 15 destroyed a 5,000 ton Russian transport at
Odessa, besides damaging another merchant ship of about 3,Ooo tons.
In an address before the American Legion of Illinois,
-1-
