894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., March 18, 1938 - December 28, 1939 (File 1169), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00-1169-2   Pages: 477   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-22/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20March%2018%2C%201938%20-%20December%2028%2C%201939%201169-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
No.
Date
Subfect
801
Dec. 23, 11 a.m.
Narcctics: Turevic case.
802
Dec. 23, 2 p.m.
Press reaction to Prime Minister's
stetenent concerning peace terms
in Sino-Jepenese conflict.
803
Dec. 23, 8 p.r..
Br: ish Ambessador's forthcoming
incerview with Foreign Minister.
804
Dec. 26, 8 p.m.
Grw-Arita conversation.
805
Dec. 27, 9 a.m.
Grew-Arita conversation, Ded. 26.
806
Dec. 27, 11 a.π.
Japanese New Year holidays.
807
Dec. 27, 3 p.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
808
Dec. 27, 4 p.m.
Codes
809
Dec. 27, 5 p.m.
Representations concerning damage
to American property in China.
810
Dec. 27, 6 p.m.
Lutheran Drethren Mission, Tungpeh
(Nyhus case): Japanese reply.
811
Dec. 28, noon
Craigie-Arita conversation, Dec. 25.
812
Dec. 29, 1 1.m.
Toreign Minister's New Year's Day
messege ccnceriing Japan's policy
in China.
813
Dec, 29, 7 p.m.
Rurers of Cabinet changes.
814
Dec. 30, 3 r.m.
Recuisiticns.
815
Dec. 31, 17 e.1.
Jornese gold shipments.
816
Dec. T1, noor
Prtocuicn of American rigats
ar ine rests in China.
817
Dec. El, i I.m.
Publicity concernarg vcte regarding
protecticn of American rights and
rrtore rs in China.
819
Dec. 5],  ..
Rogulasions cr the China Board.
619
Dec. l, 7 I.m.
anese epiy to nctes regarding
sombinc ef Americar property, and
N hus case.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
MAR 7 -1939
TATE
Maroh 3, 1959.
monthly report for January 1939.
The section of the report dealing with
relations of the United States contains no
information not already received in the Divi-
sion by despatch or telegram except possibly
under the heading "General", where the state-
ment is made that a stronger adverse feeling
toward the United States was discernible
during January and where a surmary is given
of an article in the Tokyo Nichi Nichi which
is "perhaps an accurate expose of the official
attitude in Japan toward the United States"
This summary is as follows:
"That article attributed to the Foreign
Office the view that America's taking steps
of economic reprisal against Japan is merely
a gesture to restrain Japanese activities in
China and that the United States together with
Great Britain lack determination to put such
measures into practice. It was held that the
Foreign Office authorities assuned that such
counter-activities of the United States and
Great Britain will not be effective; for, in
the first place, Japan's insistence to create
a new order in East Asia is a just one and
will be acceptable to the United States and
Britain if only it is properly explained.
Secondly, although Britain evidently desires
the United States to take positive measures
towards

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
towards bringing economic pressure on Japan
and although cooperation between the United
States and Great Britain in executing their
foreign polioies may grow closer through their
strong political, commercial and economio
bond, nevertheless in the United States there
stili persists a strong isolationist sentiment,
many people are opposed to an anti-Japanese
policy, and consequently Anglo-American unity
in adopting anti-Japanese economic measures
has not yet been established."
Reaction to the British note of January 14
(in regard to rights and interests in China)
was "one of hearty displeasure" (page 8).
The Frenoh note on the same subject was
also received with hostile comment (page l2).
The seotion dealing with military condi-
tions in China and with Sino-Japanese relations
(pages 14-16) contaim no material of signifi-
cance new to the Division.
The Japanese press reported that the
Japanese in Brazil cultivating jute are being
suocessful (page l8); that the Brazilian Gov-
ernment has invited io0 Japanese families to
settle in Brazil to cultivate jute; and that
the State of Para intends to lease 25,000 acres
for the growing of jute by a Japanese organiza-
tion and to invite 5o0 immigrants a year for
the growing of jute thereon.
In

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
0
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
In regard to the Diet session, it is
stated (page 22) that questions by Diet
members "reflected a feeling of uneasiness and
dissatisfaction in the country in regard to
the lack of information concerning the actual
measures that it will be called upon to accept
to meet the situation with which the nation is
now faoed". Otherwise, there is no new comment
in regard to the Diet Session or with regard to
the establishment of the Hiranuma Cabinet.
The financial and economic sections do
not contain material new to the Division.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.93)
POL.nCJU
THE FOREIGN SERVICJ
ADVISER
MH. HURNECK
OF THE
MAR 7 -1939
UNITED STATES OF AMER
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAR 7-1939
AMERICAN EMBASSY
MR. WELLES
Tokyo, February 10, 1939.
18A
No. 3656.
LEGAL ADVISER
SUBJECT:
REPO: T OF CONDITICNS IN JAPAN DURING TH
0
MONTH OF JANUARY, 1939.
2
COEPARNOSI
04
F
E0
ARRTENT
894.00 P.R.
CLICE OFE NN
INCRN  
Hdhorable
GMAR181932
Washingto:.
Sir:
Nith reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
1
of Ju1y 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
Embass
s monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
OF STATE
ary, 1939.
Respectfully yours
OF
39
800.
JE:C
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 148.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Moscow
Chungking
FILED
Consulate General, Shanghai
MAR 11 1938
n
Mukden
Harbin
NOTED
n
Seoul
Consulate, Kobe
Osaka
Dairen
mmder-im-Chier of the U,S. Asiatic Fleet.
qutasuplloete to the Department.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 148
REPORT OF CCNDIT ONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JAUARY 1959

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
INDEX
ANDSUMMARY
I. RELATICNS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Ruaction to the United States' note
of December 30, 1938.
.1,2
(b) Alaskan Snlmon Fisherius.
8,3
(c) Crnton Customs..
.3,4
(a) Gener 1 Relations.
.4:5
(e) Represontations Made hy the American
Embassy during the month of January,1939.....6
II. RELATIONS WITH OPHLR COUNTRIES.
(a) Grcat Brit in.
.6,7,8,9
10,11
Rupresent tions meae by the British
Emb ssy during the onth of J nuury,1939...11
(b) Franc......
..11,12,13
(c) China......
..14,15,16
1. Military Operations..
..14,15
2. Gen rel Relations......
.15,16
(d) Soviet Russin.
.16,17
() Hung ry..
.17,18
(f) Brazil.
.18
(g) "Nanchukuo".
.18
III.
INTERNAL FOL1TICAL AFFAIRS.
(r) The Cabinet...
.19,20
(b) The Dirt.
.20,21,22
(c) Importent Stotements by Government Officir1s...23,24
COURSE OF LEGISLATICI.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE..
24,25
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCII JONDITIONS........25, 26,27
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII.ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERECTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
- - C - -

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Reaction to the United States' note of
December 30, 1938.
The American note of December 30, 1938, was featured
in the Japanese press on January 2, l939. The reaction to the
7/1.94
note was restrained and, overtly at least, not greatly concern-
ed over the opinion and position of the American Government.
The General attitude taken was one of passing over the American
stand as set forth in the note, maintaining that the United
States' nominal insistence on old formulas shows failure to
appreciate the present situation in the Far East, the peculiar
economic and political conditions in this part of the world,
and Japan's position in China. Comments were made that the
American policy is based on theoretical diplomacy - not on
actualities - and that Japan cannot accept this policy. It was
also stated that an international confereice on the current
situation in China would inevitably mean a concert by Great
Britain, France and the United States to check Japan and that
such action would be intolerable. However, expressions of regret
were proffered that the United States still remains dissatis-
fied with Japan's attitude and it was urged, therefore, that
Japan must continue to endeavor to convince America of the
justice of Japan's policy pending change of American opinion
for the better.*
An article appeared in one of the leading local papers,
anticipating a move by the Foreign Minister toward seeking
settlement of questions involving foreign rights and interests
in China by demonstrating that Japan does not intend to close
the Door in China, and at the same time making it clear to
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 3612, January 17, 1939.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
.2.
the American and British Governmonts that exceptions in the
principle of equal opportunity will heve to be made in order
to permit of the development of the economic self-sufficiency
of China, Japan, nd "Manchukuo". But the Forcign Offico
stated thnt the articlo was not insnired,* and, although in
his Diet speech on Jonuary 2l the Foreign Minister referred in
general terms to dissent from abroed to the objcctives of the
Japonese policy as sct forth, no officicl statement directly
concerning the American note was made during the month.
(b) Alaskan Slmon Fisheries.
In conformity with the Department's instructions,
the Ambassador directed the Counsclor of Embassy to take up
informally with the Foreign Office the question of the Alaskan
salmon fisheries. On Janunry 1l Mr. Dooman called on Mr.
Yoshizowa, tho Director of the American Section of the Foreign
Office, and r ferring to the arrangement entered into by the
Americen and Japanese Governments in Merch, 1938, pointed out
that the failure of the Japnnese Government to give a binding
undert king to prevent its nationals from fishing for salmon off
the coast of Alaska had led to a growing sense of insecurity
on the pert of Americans interusted in salmon fishery ond he
hoped that the Japanese Government would be disposed to con-
clude e more permanent and comprehensive rrangement. Mr.
Yoshizawe expressed great surprise that the matter should have
been brought up ag in and stated that he could not understand
"hy there should be any grounds for apprehension on the part of
tre Americen snlmon fishing inturests innsmuch as there had been
no
Embassy's telegrom No. 12, Jenuary 6, 1939.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
…3.
no operations by the Japanese ltst yeer in Alaskan waters.
Later, in an informal letter addressed to the Counselor of the
Embassy, Mr. Yoshizawa stated ir effect that he did not consider
that any useful purpose would be served by reoponing the matter
and that he had, therefore. not roferred the caso o his super-
iors. There were no rurther develoents regarding this problem
during the month of January.*
(c) Canton Cust a s:
It is recalied tnat ca November 24, 1938, in cenformity
with the Department's instrucii r vhe Ambassador presented a
note to the Japanese Foreign Office pretesting the taking ovor
by the Japanese censular and milita:y autherities of the Chinese
Maritime Custons at Canton on November 9. Similar notes were
presented by the British and French Ambassadors.
The respective
raplies received from the Japanese Government to these notes
stated that "since the Canton area is at present occupied by
the Imperial Army it is proper that the Canton Maritime Customs
be placed under the authority of the Japanese Army of Occupation."
During the month under review the British Ambassader proposed
that the British, American and French Ambassadors make formal
parallel representations contesting the Japanese assertion of
the propriety of the Japanese military forces taking over the
Canton Customs. Inasmuch as the representations of this Embassy
to the Japanese Government with respect to interference with
the Chinese Customs Administration at various places in China
by Japanese authorities have consistently and implicitly pro-
tested action deriving from no cause other than that of action
nd operations by the Japenese military forces, it was felt
that the American Government's position had been made perfectly
clear
Embassy's despatch No. 3639, January 28, 1939.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
clear and that unless some unforeseen developments occurred
further formal representations would not be likely to bring
favorable practical results. However, in conformity with the
Department's telegraphic instructicns of January 4 authorizing
a separate and formal rojoinder to the Japanese assertion, the
Ambassador made to his colleagues a counter-proposal that,
instead of addressing written notes to the Foreign Office,
the three Ambassadors respectively orully observe that their
Governments cannot accept the Japanese contention that military
occupation of the Canton area offered justification for taking
over the Customs. This action was grsed upon and the observe-
tions are to be mnde by the Ambassadors in their next meetings
with the Foreign Minister.*
(a) General Relations.
No m jor developments in Americ n-Jupanese relations took
rlnce during the month under review and the outstanding issues
between the two countrius were, on the part of Japin, left in
abeyance. How ver, lthough the luadership in opposition to
Japan by the so-called democratic powers was still attributed
to Great Britain, a stron er adverse feoling toward the United
States wes discernible. Considerable attention was given in
the press to reports that the United Stites was considering
the imposing of cconomic sanctions against Jopan.
In the Diet
repeated roferenco was also mado to these reports nd in dis-
cussing this subject the members of the Diet cxpressed sentiments
of defience against any such action by foreign countries.
Perhaps on eccurate exposé of the officinl attitude in
japen towards the United States in regard to the subject of
conomic sanctions was made in an article published in the
TOKYO
Embassy's telegrams No. 3, Jonuary 2 nd No. 22, January 13,
nd Embassy's despatch No. 3646, January 30, 1939.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
TOKYO NICHI NICHI. That article attributed to the Foreign
Office the view thet Americale taking steps of econcmic rcprisal
against Japan is merely e gesture to restrain Jepanese cctivi-
ties in China and that tho United Statos together with Grent
Britain lack determination to put such measures into practice.
It was held that the Foreign Office authorities assumed thnt
such counter-activities of the United States and Greet Brit in
will not be effective; for, in the first place, Japan's in-
sistence to crente a new order in East Asia is a just one and
will be acceptable to the United States and Britain if only it
is properly explained. Socondly, although Britain evidently
desires the United States to take positive measures towards
bringing economic pressure on Janan and although cooperation
between the United States end Great Britein in executing their
foreign policies may grow closer through their strong political,
commercial nd economic bond, nevertheless in the United States
there still persists a strone isolationist sentiment, many
p ople are opposed to an anti-Jap nese policy, and consequently
Anglo-Americn unity in adopting anti-Japanese economic measures
lhas not yet been established.
The discussion in Congross over the development of Guam
as en air and submarine bnse was the subject of some publicity
in Japen. The spokesman of the Japonese Navy and other ob-
servers stated that, although the esteblishment of any fortifice-
tion by a foreign Power in the Jestern Pacific would be looked
upon with grave concern, they felt th:t authorization to build
p the island's defonse may be considered primarily as a politi-
col move to gain a b rgaining point with Japan.
(c)

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
(e) Representations Made by the American Embassy
During the Month of January, 1939.
During the month of January the Embassy made reprecenta-
tions to the Foreign Office concerning American property Josses
in China in the following instances.*
American Southern Baptist Mission Hospital,
Kweilin, Kwangsi.
(Bombing, sheilfire)
Christian and Missionary Alliance, Kweilin, Kwangsi.
(Bombing)
American Southern Baptist Mission, Shiuchow, Kwantung
(Bombing)
North China Mission of Methodist Episcopal Church,
various locamicns in North China.
Mr. & Mrs. Carland Leonard, Yuanp'ing, Shansi.
(Bombine)
Evangelical Lutheran Mission Chapel, Shasi, Hupeh.
(Bombing)
American Presbytorian Mission, Horth,Hengyang, Hunan.
(Bombing)
American Methodist Episcopal Mission, Chungking.
(Bombing).
Christian and Missionary Alliance, Taiping, South Anhwei.
(Peiping)
II. RELATICNS VITH OTHUR CCUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
On January 14 the British Ambassador presented to the
Japanese Government a note, substantially along the lires of the
American note of December 30, setting forth the British position
with regard to British rights and interests in China as affected
741.94
by Japanese policy and actions. The British Ambassador, on
presenting
These representations were reported by the followine despetches
which are listed in the same order as the above Anerican repre-
sentations: Despatches No. 3619, Jan 18; 3621, Jan. 18; 3622.
Jan. 18; 3625, Jan. 18; 3629, Jan. 23; 3636, Jan. 26; 3632,
Jan. 25; 3644, Jan. 30; 3650, February 2, 1039.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
....
presenting the note to the Foreign Minister, informed the
latter that the note had been drafted in London before the
British Foreign Office had knowledge of the American note of
December 30.*
The complete text of the note was published in the press
and considerable editorial comment was given to it. Its gener-
al features may be summarized as follows: The British Govern-
ment informed the Japanese Government of the uncertainty and
grave anxiety in which it was left by a study of Japan's new
policy in the Far East. It outlined the intentions of the
Japanese Government in regard to Japan's policy towards China
and Manchuria as inferred from pronouncements made und official
informetion issued in Japan. It stated that the British Govern-
ment was at a loss to underst nd how the assur nce given by
the former Prime Minister, Prince Konoye, that Japan seeks no
territory and respects the sovereignty of Chine, are to be
reconciled with the declred intention of the Jepanese Govern-
ment to compel the Chinese people by force of arms to accept
conditions involving surrender of their political, economic,
nd cultural life to Japonese control, and with the indefinite
maintenance in China of consider ble Japanese garrisons and vir-
tual detachment from Chinn of the territory of Innur Mongolia.
The British Government is not prep red to uccept or recoenize
activities of the nature indic ted which are brouht bout by
force; it intends to dhere to the principle of the Nine Power
Trerty and c nnot gree to unilater-l modificntion of its
terms; and it c nnot agree, as suggested in Japan, that the Treaty
is obsolete or that its provisions no longer meet the situation,
except in so for as the situ tion has been altered by Japan in
contravention of its terms. But it adds that, while the British
Government.
Embassy's tulegram No. 16, January 9, 1939.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
Government maintains that modificntion cannot be effected uni-
laterally and must be by neeotiati on by ell the signetories,
it does not contend that treaties are eternal; and that, there-
fore, if the Japanese Government has any constructive suggestions
for the modification of the multilcteral agreements relating to
China, the British Government will be ready to consider them.
In the meantime, the British Government reserves all its rights
under existing treaties.*
The reaction to the British note was one of hearty
displeasure.** Reflective of this general feeling were state-
ments to the effect thot: If Brit in does not want to be
Japan's enemy by supporting Japan's foe, the Chiang Kai-shek
Government,she should cooperate with Japan in establishing a
new order in the Far East; Britain can come to an understand-
ing with Japan by fncing the fact that a new situntion hes
arisen in Enst Asin; and the British attitude s well as that
of America is overbearing, if not one of bluff, but such atti-
tude will not induce Japan to modify its policy.
Other comments, however, were noted which, although
following the same lines of nntipathy to the British stand,
suggested that either the British note, as also the American
note, should not be taken seriously or that the British con-
tention should be met by stressing the constructive phases
of Japan's undertaking and by making it clearer that Japanese
activities will not be conducted it the material cost of third
countries.
*
Embassy's telegrum No. 16, January 9, nd despatch No. 3610,
January 16, 1939.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 26, Jenuary 17, 1939.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
countries.
On January 14 the British Anbossedor aiso took up with
the Foreign Office the questicn of the reopening of the Yengtze
River to third party merchant vesspis. He informsd the Toveign
Minister that he hed heard thet sericus considelation was teing
given in Japanese official circles to the question of the ne-
opening of the river ond in order to strengthen the latter's
hands wished to leave with him a memorandum setting forth cer-
tain data that had been compiled by British sources regarding
Japanese trading on the Yangtze and safety of navig tion for
ships of other nation litics. The menorandum gave 43 reported
cases during the month of November wherein Japanese merchant
vessels traded at fanking, Wuhu and Kukiang and it contended
that the goods listed as being traded in were not in the main
merely carried as subsidiary cargoes on Japanese military trans-
ports thereby disproving the Japanese conuention made in Novem
ber that Japanese vessels trading on the Yangtze are without
exception engaged as military transports carrying primarily
war materials. In contradiction to the Japanese statement that
the Yangtze must remain closed owing to the presence of mines,
re oval of navigation marks, military operations, etc., it
was also stated therein that infermation received from the British
naval authorities on the Yangtce was that from the point of view
of safety there is no reason wny foreign steamers should not
trade between the sea and Wuhu and that, moreover, above Wuhu,
with the anticipated rise of the river in the course of the next
few weeks, the river should equally he accessible to foreign
vessels.*
This
Embassy's despatch No. 36?4, January 18, 1939.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
This Embassy was informed about the middle of Januery
that the British Embassy had received from the Minister fcr
Foreign Affairs replies to the British representations of Decem-
ber 20 and 2o with regard to Japenese interference with the
British and French concessions at Tientsin. Their replies
stated that the Japanese action was considered necessary
because of anti-Japanese activities within the British con-
cession at Tientsin, and further that the matter was being
dealt with by the authorities at that city.*
Reports were continually published in the press that
Great Britain, along with the United States, is contemplating
the taking of economic reprisal egainst Japan because of her
policy on the Asiatic Continent, and that reprisal would most
likely be in the form of special taxes on Japanese imports
into the British Empire.
The opinion was generally held that
Great Britain would not act alone but only with the United States
in a united Anglo-Americon attack on Japan.. Feeling was bitterer
azrinst Great Britain then against the United States, as the in-
spiration and the primary desire for action of this kind were
attributed to the former country. Stronger and more antago-
nistic terms were used in proclsiming threats of counter-
reteliation for economic moves on the art
of Great Britain and
in asserting that any such moves would not affect Japanese policy.
It was reported in the press towards the end of the
month thot the Japanese Ambassador at London hed protested to
the British Government against mistrentment of Japanese in
Singopore. The alleged complaints appeared to have occurred
over a period of : year or more, and the press noting the
protest averred that the
fnct that the Ambassador in London had
taken
Embassy's despatch No. 3635, January 26, 1939.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
taken up the matter is an indication of the seriousress of the
situation and that, in the light of the stiffened attitude toweris
Japen as regards the Chinese Incidunt, it might be regerdec .s
the first stip by the Japanese Government towards a frentel
clnsh with Englond.
Representations mede by the British Embassy
during the month of January, 1939.
During the month of Jinuery the British Embassy m: de
representations to tho Jrp nese Forcign Office in the following
instences:*
British cleims gainst the Japanese Governmont
for proporty losses in Chin:.
Tax discriminition aerinst c subsidicry of British-
Americ n Tob cco Company in Jap nose controlled
arca in North Chinc.
Jupanese interferencc with British interests at
Shingh.i.
Protection of forsign rights nd interests in Hankow -
Policing of the Speci 1 Administr tive District
No. 3 in Hankow and reservations of British rights.
Jap'nese interference with British interests ind
occup-tion of British pronerty in Sh:ngh i.
Japanese discrimin-tion  inst British interests in
Tsingtoo.
(c) Frunce.
Follcwing the presentation of the Americ.n nd British
751.94
notes with rug rd to foreign rights .nd inturests in Chin,
the French Ambassedor rresented to the Foreign Minister a note
from his Government which wes ilong lines similor to those of
the other two Governments. The note stated that it appeared
to th: French Government that the policy which the Japinese
Government
These representations were reported in the following despatches
hich are listed in the same order as the bove represent tions.
spatchs No. 3605, Jcn. 16; 3607, J: n. 16; 3608, J n. 16;
.609, Jan. 16; 3614, Jan. 17; 3645, Jen. 30, 1939.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Government intends to pursue in the Far East is not compatibie
with the provisions of the Nine-Power Treaty.
The Government
of France points out that it coulå not accept or recognize any
modification of the existing order established in China by the
treaties in force which was not brought about by prior corsulta-
tion among the interested Powers anā duly accepted by them. It
continues to believe that the principles laid down in the Nine
Power Treaty have not lost their validit:. It refuses to believe
that the Japanese Government proposes unilaterally to denounce
the contractual undertakings to which it freely subscribed or
intends to confront the other Powers which are parties to these
agreements with a fait accompli of such a kind as gravely to
prejudice their interests. However, in case the Imperial Govern-
ment should believe that the course of events in the Far East
requires an adjustment of the aforesaid treaty the French
Government will be prepared to receive any suggestion made by
the Japanese Government.*
The note was published in full in the Japanese press.
A statement by the spokesman of the Foreign Office was reported
as characterizing the note as a gesture on the part of the
French Government toward following the lead taken by the United
States and British Governments.
The spokesman was reputed to
have said also that the Japanese Government does not place too
much inportance on the French note. Comment of a hostile nature
appeared in the press regarding this French representation, to
the effect that France is able to maintain its position as a
world power only throuh the support of Great Britain and America,
has no opinions of its own on world affairs especially as regards
the
* Embassy's telegram No. 31, January 20, and despatch No. 3630,
January 23, 1939.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
the Far East and, therefore, has no alternative but to ndopt
the cowardly and wily attitude reflected in the note to japar.
There were made public on January 27 reports that the
French Government had unreasorably delayed its formal reply to
the Japanese request for agrement to the appointment of Mr.
Masayuki Tani as Japanese Ambassacor to France. According to
the Foreign Office the French Government when asked for its
approval to the ppointment of Mr. Toni pointed out that
Minister Tani spoke ubout French : id in China in an interview
held last summer with press correspondents und that what the
Minister had said then was contrary to facts and that, therefore,
the French Government wes hesitant to cive its agrément. Later
there wos communicated to the Jansrese Government the view thnt
Er. T'ni is entirely persona grate to the French Covernment end
would be welcome in Frence, but that navertheless es he had
vde the st:tement under the authority of the Japenese Gevern-
ment that shioments of arms end munitions continued to flow
freely through Indo-Chinn to Chi ng Kii-shek's Government, the
French were taking this nction in contusting what it feels to
be an incorrect st tumei.t of the J panese Government.*
The
refusal to the cgrement wis interpreted by the press as an
unfriendly ct to Junn, nd it was stated th t if Fr nce in-
tends to m ke use of this erénent issue as  menns of restrain-
ing Jopn in her Chin policy she is suffering under a delusion.
(c)
Embassy's telugrom No. 49, Januory 27, 1939.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
(c) China.
i1.
Military Operations.*
The lull in Japanese military operations which was
noted in December appears to have continued during January,
during which month no major developments were reported.
Sporadic encounters with guerrilla bands occurred and some
operations undertaken on a limited scale against Chinese forces
on the fringes of the occupied areas.
The most imnortant military events occurred in southwest
793.94
Shansi, where two groups of Japanese units made drives north
and west from Hotsien and Linfen respectively in what con-
stituted presumably another "clean-up" campaign in that
area, and it was announced that through this campaign some
20,Oo0 Chinese were driven out of Shansi into Shensi. At
the same time the Japanese harassed the Chinese along the
Lunghai Railway in the form of artillery boabardment across
the Yellow River and also with intensive aerial bombing.
However, the long-anticipated drive of the Japanese across
the Yellow River and on to Sian did not materialize during
the month, which was possibly explained by the failure of the
Yellow River to freeze sufficiently to permit the passage
over it of heavy materiel.
In the Juhan area there were no engagements of any im-
portance, and although reports from some sources were to the
effect that the Japanese were quietly preparing for an offen-
sive on the Yochow-Nanchang front there appeared to have
been no moves initirted during the nonth to do else than
hold the territorial gains already made.
In
* This section prepared with the assistance of the Military
Attaché's Office.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
-25-
In South China some fighting continued around Tsungfa.
and it was reported in Ja an that Japanese forces attacked
and occupied Fahsien on January 15. Three days later a
"large unit" was reported to have landed on the west bank
of the Pearl River north of Macao and to be moving toward
Shekki.
Tension in the western part of Kwantung Province was
reportedly heightened in view of the possibility of c
Japanese landing to sever the supply route from Indo-China.
Martiel law was announced to hove been put into effect in
Pahkoi, while French war vessels were seid to have been
assembled in Kwangchow Bay.
Intensive neriul bombing of the Lunghai Railway from
Chengchow to Paoki and of towns and Chinese military concen-
trations in Shensi nd Honon was carried on during the month.
In Central C hint, Chinese nirdromes were subjected to bomb-
ing attncks nd Chungking was raided on several occasions.
Bombing long the west ond north brenches of the Pe rl River
in South China was continued and a number of r ids made on Watlam
Kweilin, Liuchov, nd Nanning in Kwangsi and Pakhoi, Yuengchow
ond other constl villgus in western Kwantung.
?.
General Raltions.
The report of the def ction of N ne Ching-wei from the
Kuomintang nd of his pe ce proposals made t the end of
December was continu-lly ruferred to during the month of
Janu ry by the loc 1 press. The incident w-s app rently
signifient to Japen, if only just wishfully, s c demon-
stration of the worsoning of the position of the Chi ng
Kai-shek Government nd as an xamplo of the growing sentiment
for pecce in Chine.
on

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.97)
On January 25 it was annourced that Marshal Wu Fei-fu
was being urged to come out of his retirement and become the
loader of "New China". An eCitori l chorus of approval. then
appeared in the press of Wu's selection and a "build-up" of
his character and abilities. On Janlary 28 it was reported
that Mershal Wu had accepted the position of Pacific tion
Commissioner and is expected to have temporary hecdquarters
at Knifang, whore ho is to act independently of the régimes
in North and Central China. The fanfare and publicity given
to these announcements evidently portend a Japanese attempt
to employ Marshal Wu to promote the setting up of some new
political organization in China, but although the establish-
ment of some form of central government for the occupied terri-
tories was announced as being contemplated no definite plans have
as yet come to light.
(d) Soviet Russin.
The Japanese-Soviet dispute over the Siberian fishery
question appeared no nearer solution during the month of
161.74
January.
Although conversntions were renewed on January 8
betwcen Ambassador Togo nd Foreign Comnisser Litvinoff, they
were reported to be entirely unproductive of results. on
January 17 there was published in the press a report that
the Soviet Government had announeed that rights to the fish-
ing grounds in the Far Eastern waters would be auctioned on
rch 15.
Questioned in regard to this forthcoming auction
 spokesman of the Foreign Office is reported to have stated
that the Japanese will not perticipato in the auction because
gotiations are still going on b tween Moscow and Tokyo in
rgurd to the issue, but that the Japanese Government still
 pes for the conelusion of a temporary fishing agreement to
be

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
be arrived at before this year's fishing season cpns, ad
that negotiations will be cnrried on until the last momet.
The fact thet the question of fisheries in the territoriul
waters of Soviet Russia in the Far East is assuming more
serious proportions was brought out by innumerable references
to it in the press as well as by the speech of the Foreign
Minister in the Diet on January 21. The Foreign Minister said
at that time that while it was expected that a satisfactory
agreement will be arrived at with the Soviet Government "Japan
is, of course, prenared to take appropricte steps when it
comes to a question of protecting hor legitimate rights
and vested interests." Roports in the press ennounced
that the vorious fishing interests in Japon are propered
to start fishing when the senson opens regrdless of whother
or not an greement by that time has been renched, nd these
reports intia-ted th. t Jopen will deposit rents for the es-
t blished grounds in n ccount t the Bonk of Chosen and
will toke steps to un ble Japinese vessels to oper' te in
the witers. It w s evin st ted th t if no greemunt is
rrived at, not only will fishing be continued but it will
be intensifiod end possibly extended to grounds not normelly
aveilable to the Jopanese fishing ships.*
(c) Hungiry.
On Jrnu ry 10 the Hung rien Government extended de jure
recognition to "Manchukuo" by means of e note signed by Count
Cosky, Hungirien Foreign Minister, addressed to the Premier
of "Nanchukuo", Chang Ching-hui. This nction followed
clos:ly upon the heels of the conclusion on November 15 last
of
* See Suction IV of desp tch No. s000, Jenuary 13, 1939.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.96)
18-
of a Cultural Pact between Japan and Hungary, ond it is
believed the next move in logicel sequence wiil be the pen
adherence of Hungory to the Berlin-Rome-Tokyo axjs Tho
news of Hungary's action in recognizing Manchukue" wos
received here with due gratiricstion but rel tively li-cle
comment.*
(f) Brazil.
Mention was m de in the press of the succcssfui activi-
ties of the Japanese immigrants to Brazil in the cultiva-
tion of jute. It ws stated thrt 60 tons of jute were ob-
tained last yeor, nd thit 20o tons are tc b: produced in
1939 and 1000 tons per year beginning 1940. Moreover, the
Brazilian Government is reported to have invited some 100
Jap nese families to settle in Brazil for the cultiv tion
of juto nd that the State of Para intends to lease gr tis
a trect of land covering 25,000 acres to the Anazonia Industry
Rese rch Institute,  Japanese sponsored company, and to in-
vite some fo0 inmir nts  your for the cultiv tion of jute
thereon.
(g) "M nchukuo".
It was announeed on January 17 that Premier Chang
Chinc-hui of "innchukuo" hed issued a communiqué the previous
day stating th.t "ienchukuo" would chere to the anti-Comintern
Fect. In this connietion it was mentioned thet "Manchukuo's"
adherence to this p et won the fifth.
III
* Embassy's despatch Nc. sle, Joruory 18, 1939.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
--19-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
The Cabinet of which Prince Fumimaro Konoye was Premier
resigned on January 4 and on January 5 a Cabinet under the
premiership of Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma was installed.
With the principal exceptions of Mr. Ikeda, who held con-
currently the office of Minister of Finance and Minister
of Commerce, and Admiral Suetsugu, who held the office
of Home Minister, the outstanding figures of the Konoye
854.c0
Cabinet were carried over into the new one. These were:
Marquis Kido, General Itagaki, Admiral Yonai, Mr. rita,
General Araki, and Mr. Shiono. Prince Konoye himself was
designated Minister without Portfolio in the Hiranuma Cabinet
while at the same time he became Baron Hiranuma's successor
as President of the Privy Council. The new Cabinet installed
on January 5 was made up as follows:
Prime Minister
Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma
Minister without Portfolio
Prince Fumimaro Konoye
Minister for Foreign Affairs
Mr. Hacl iro Arita
Minister of War
Lt. Gen. Seishiro Itagaki
Navy Minister
Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai
Minister of Finance
Mr. Sotaro Ishiwata
Minister of Conmerce and
Mr. Yoshiaki Hatta
Industry.
Minister of Home Affnirs
Marquis Koichi Kido
Minister of Justice
Mr. Suehiko Shiono
Minicter of Communications
Mr. Suehiko Shiono
Minister of Railvays
Mr. Yonezo Maeda
Minister or Agriculture and
Mr. Yukio Sakurauchi
Forectry
Minister of Fducation
General Baron Sadao Araki
Minister of Overseas Affairs
Mr. Yoshiaki Hatta
Welfare Minister
Mr. Hisatada Hirose
The Cabinet chane was effucted without specific public
knowledge of the causes that brought such change about and
Prince Konoye, as is customary, merely explained his resig-
natien in vague generalities. However, a careful study of
the political situntion prior to and following the change in-
dicates

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
-C-
dicates that it may be attributed to the following rrincips!
causes:
A cleavage is believed to have arisen in the Cubines
because of insistence of Home Minister Suetsugu for measures
to be adpted for the "organizetion of the nation" through
strict regimentation. These measures were subjected to
debate in the Cabinet itself, they came to the attertion of
the leaders in the Diet who resented them, and trouble ahead
for the Government became evident.
Such a situation gave
the Prime Minister the opportunity to resign, which oppor-
tunity he had been desiring for some time. Added to this
there was a growing feeling in Japan that a change in leader-
ship was required in the Government to give a "lift" to popu-
lar enthusiasm in order to meet the task confronting the
nation. The country had gone tlhirough a long strain during
in the feeling nd ttitude of the public. With the conclusion
of what was termed nositi nnl military operations and the in-
auguration cf the so-called reconstruction st: ge at home and
on the continent it was felt that a fresh leader was required.*
(b) The Diet.
The Diet wes reconvened on Janunry 21, 1939, and the
Prime Minister and Ministers for Foreign Aff irs, Finance,
War and Novy on that day and the following days delivered
their annuol addresses.
The Prime Minister in his speech stated th.t n immutable
policy in regard to China had been determined upon under the
former Government and th t the present Ministry was committed
to the same policy nd would go forw rd, wh tever the cost,
to achieve the final end -- political, economic, and cultural
cooperation betwcen Japan, Manchukuo", and Chinn. After dis-
cussing
Embassy's despatch No. 3600, Jenuary 18, 1939.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
-ai~
cussing at length the problems fncing Jopan in establishing a
"new order in Enst Asia", he stressed that in order to accom-
plish this aim Japen must meke a rapid replenishment of all
the powers of the notion, especially the defense and productive
powers. He said that it would be the policy of the Government,
in directing the att inment of the maximum strength of the
nation, to continue economic control nd th t to this end,
likewise, further provisions of the General Mobilization Law
would be invoked.*
The address of the Foreign Minister reiterated the policy
outlined by the Prime Minister in regord to the China Incident.
Ho further dded that in est blishing the "new ordor in East
Asin" Japan seeks of China neithor territory nor indemnity and
will respect the sovercignty of China. Reforring to the inter-
ests of for ign Powers in China, he snid th't certnin restrictions
ond regulrtions will hove to b unforced in spheres h:ving a
boaring on the n tion-l dufense :nd the economic self-sufficiency
of Jap'n, China, nd "inchukuo", but th t they will be limited
to  minimum and th't otherwise th inturests of foreign Powers
and commerci l opportunitius for thcir notionels will be un-
affected.
He then s id th t the Cnina affoir h: d now entcred upon
a new stage, one of construction, which must engge Japon's
earnest attontion. He called the Chieng Kai-shek régime a
purely local one in  r mote province, but along with the
work of roconstruction, Janin could not relax her efforts in
overthrowing it. In this connection he spoke of the reported
conveyance of wir materials to the Chinese National Government
through French Indo-Chinn nd other adfoinong torritories. He
stated that this matter had been brought to the attention of
he Governments cencerned and intinet d that if the transport
f the supplies through the territories was not stopped Japan
would
Embassy's despatch No. 3638, Jmuary 27, 1939.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
would take further moasures in the matter.
Turning to tho Soviet-Japanese relations he said tnat
they had become extremely strained and declared that unless
a satisfactory agreement is arrived at on the fishery question,
Japan will take appropriate steps to protect her interests.*
The Finance Minister in his nddress before the Diec sub-
mitted the 1939-40 budget estimates and presented an explanation
of Japan's economic conditions. He declnred that despite the
China Incident Japan is economically on a "solid foundation".
He referred to the successful Government financing which, he
said, had been acccmplished through readjustment of supply and
demand and through the thrift of the people. But he explained
that efforts must be rudoubled to keep the Government supplied
with funds, to increase industrinl productivity, and to expand
the country's export trade.**
The interpellations in the Dict which followed the speeches
of the prineipal ministers were noteworthy in their emphasis on
how nd by what muans the objectives of the Government are to
be nttained. The ims of the Governmont's policy were accepted
by the Diet members evidently without question but both in
regard to internal conditions and in rug:rd to the China af-
fair and other foreign relations cemands were mede for dofinite
Government plans. Thuse inquiries undoubtedly reflected a feol-
ing of unoasiness und cissatisfection in the country in regard
to the l ck of inform tion concerning the actual measures that
it will bo cnlled upon to accent to meet the situation with
which the nation is now faced.
(c)
* Embassy's duspatch No. 3636, January 27, 1939.
**Embassy's despatch No. 3643, January 30, 1939.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
25-
(c) Important Statuments by lovernmert O2ficials.
The following statements were made durin: the nenth und
review by G.ernment Ministers before the Dict in rugard to Jupar
relations with foreign ccuntrius Iising out of h sit: tic. in
China and in regard to Japan's declines with the cccupied rens
of Chine:
The Prime Minister, replying to a question puc him s to
whether Japan would submit if economic sanctions were applied
by third countries is reported to have said that Japan hed a
plan to cope with ny cconomic blockode set up by third countries.
He hoped that such  situ ticn would not rise but if it should.
some moans for doaling with it resolutely will be devised.
The Foreign Minister is reported to have made these
statements in reply to questions put to him: He hoped tht
Japan, China, und "Manchukuo" could cstablish the closest co-
operition in economic ifairs nd eventually form a strong
economic unit, with ench reccgnizing the needs of the other two
from the point of view of nationrl defonse and sucurity. Jom-
pensation would be exp cted from Chine in respect of losses in-
curred by individu 1 Jor nse but no indennity would be dunnded.
Japn is awiting  suit ble opportunity for  bolition of extre-
territori-l rights in Chine and the return of the conc ssions
there nd when J pin is pre red to consider the t king up of
such nction the now Government of Chin. will presun-bly dumend
th-t other countries concerned teke similar cction. Hew ver,
Japen is not prentred to withdr w extr territoriel rights and
return the concessiens lone. Although no Contr.l Government
for China has as yet b on st blished, the Japanese Government
expects the est blishmont of such a Government and it is believed
*hat it will cxtend rucognition at an opportune moment shortly
fter such establishment thus place. In regord to the practica-
bility

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-24ー
bility of there being held in Tokyo an international conforul:c.
to discuss the situation in China, it is questionable, he said,
whether solution to problems can be found by delegates of a
number of countries with varying d grees of interest in such
problems, and so far as Japan is c)icerned it is felt by uhe
Japanese Government that better resul ts can be obtained by carry-
ing on conversations individually with the other countries
rather than by an international conference.
The Minister of War is reported to have replied to a
question regarding the indefinite stationing of Japanese troops
in China that Japanese troops will be kept in China for a sub-
stantially long period and, in contradiction to rumors heard,
that the Army has no intention whatever of withdrawing the forces
now in Central and South China.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
The ordinary budget estimates for 1939-40 were submitted
to the Diet by the Finance Minister. The figure given for the
budget was ¥ 3,694,000,000, which represented an increase of
￥ 180,000,000 over that of 1938-39. 0rdinary revenues are to
be increased by Y294,000,000 as compared with the previous
year and are to be obtained primarily through increased taxes
of approximately ¥200,000,000; while a deficit of ¥1,082,000,000
is to be made up by bond issues.
Although it was stated that
a special supplementary budget to cover military expenditures
connected with the "China Incident" would be presented to the
current session of the Diet the amount of this budget was not
announced.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
-25-
announced.
However, from other sources it was intimated thac
this latter budget might amount to some ¥6,000,000,000. It wi!i
be met presumably by bond issues. During 1938 Government hond
issues of ¥3,800,000,000 were f1ca:ed and taken up by ths public
and the private banks, while since she outbreak of the "Cine
Incident" some ¥5,600,000,000 bonds have been issued, By the
end of the current year if the present program is carried out
the increase in Japan's bond indebtedness attendant upcn the
hostilities in China will exceed ¥10,000,000,000.
The Finance Minister mentioned that some difficulty in
floating the issues was enccuntered lest fall but clcimed that
a better reception had been evidenced during January. In that
month bonds amounting to some ¥440,000,000 were issued and
absorbed.
VI.
GENERAL ECCNOMIC AND FINACIAL CONDITICNS.
Business sentiment during the month under review vas
uneasy due to the political situation. The prolongedhostilities
in Chirn, the ch nsc of Cabinet, the presentetion of the American,
British, and French notes on Jonan's China policy, the unsettled
Soviet fishery question and the disturbed political situation
in Europe grve rise to apprehen ion nd uncert inty. Reflective
of this situation, the  tock merket was unsettled and dull.
The Bank of Japan nete issue rerched a record seasonal peck
of ¥2,858,000,000 cut by the end of the month this figure had
been contracted to vC,x Do,000,000. However, the money rates
entinued low and, moreover, a shorp decline in capital invest-
ments in business enterprise was netud. This was attributed
partly to the enforcoment of strict cepital control measures
ind partly to the growing lack of materiels for processing in
Jap:n。

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Japan. At the same time prices in Japan, both wholesale and
retail, showed a further rise, bringing the price level to
approximately 6 per cent above that of a year ago.
The fureign exchange rate showed a weak undertone but
the rates were maintained within nirrow limits, the yen-dcllar
quotation adhering closely to the 27.00 level. The total
foreign trade for the month of January, according to the figures
released, amounted to ¥381,000,000. This represented a slight
decrease compared with the corresponding mcnth of 1938.
There
was an excess of imports over exports during the month of
¥36,000,000.
With a view to providing larger funds for industrial
expansion, the Ministry of Finance will submit to the Diet a
bill authorizing the doubling of the capital of the Industrial
Bank of Japan, which is now ¥ 50,000,000, enabling it to issue
some ¥ 1,000,000,000 new debentures. The same Ministry also
proposed that, in order to make up the curtailment in the Bank
of Japan's note issue, -- which curtailment amounted to
$ 300,000,000 and was brought about by the export of gold
reserves, -- another fiduciary note issue of from ¥ 300,000,000
to ¥ 500,000,000 be permitted beyond the  1,700,000,000 previous-
ly authorized.
The trend toward intensified economic control in the
country and centralization and regimentation of industry was
further emphasized curin the month.
In this connection a
number of ordinances invoking portions of the National General
obilization Law were approved and a portion of article 21
f this Law was enfcrced by an ordinance promulgated on Janu-
ry 7, which provided that all skilled laborers must register
heir vocational abilities.
Gasoline consumption was further
curtailed.
Embassy's despatch No. 3640, January 30, 1939.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
curtailed. Leather and leather products are to be adied to
the list of commodities included in the commodity import-export
link system. Cotton, wool, rayon and staple yarns are, when
exported are to longer to be subiect to official prices. The
proposed establishment of three ncs Government-sponscrec anc con-
trolled companies was announced. They are the Imperiul Mining
Development Company, which will assist the development of the
nation's mineral resources; the Japan Light Metal Compary which
will dominate and control the domestic aluminum industry; the
Japan Steel Materials Sales Company which will coordinate and
control the sales of steel products.
To tighten the control over the shipring industry and
to provide greater financing facilities for the expansion of
that industry, two bills for these purposes respectively hive
heen proposed ana will be submitted to the Diet for enactment.
The first law will require all shipping companies to join a
shipping fedcration, the direction end the nctivities of which
nre to be controlled by the Ministry of Communications. The
second bill will give greater latitude and enlarged banking
facilities for the financing of ship construction:*
VII.
ACTIVITIES CF A ERICAN COM.ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII.
ACTIVITIES CF FOREIGN COMHERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
TX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
This section prepared with the assistance
of the
Commercial
Attaché's Office.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES S NT TO THE DEPARTMENT
No.
Date
Subject
3591
Jan. 7
Sanotions.
3592
Jan. 10
Quarterly report of personnel residing 
Government-owned buildings.
3593
Jan. 10
Report or codes.
3594
Jan. 11
Exchange of Publications - Social Security
Board.
3595
Jan. 13
First Quarter Examinatior of Mr. J. Dixor
Edwards.
3596
Jan. 12
Ambassaacr's application for leave of
absence.
3597
Jan. 1?
Protest against infringement of monopoly
rights, by Japanese coupany, of Belgian
Tramway Electric Company, Tientsin.
3598
Jan. 13
Letter to Asiatic Scciety
3599
Jan. 13
Report of 1957 World Education Conference.
3600
Jan. 13
Japanese Cabinet change, January 4-5, 1939.
3601
Jan. 13
Publicity given to interviews between the
Aabassador and the Minister for Foreign
Arfairs.
3602
Jan. 14
Diplomatic visa report.
3603
Jan. 14
Protection of foreign preperty in China
and reservation of rights: British repre-
sentations.
3604
Jan. 16
THE CRILNTAL ECONOMIST, January, 1939.
3605
Jan. 16
British claims against the Japanese Govein-
ment for property losses in China.
3606
Jun. 16
Article published by "THE SHIUNSO",
"JAPALS TORII POLICY".
607
Jan. 16
Tax discrimination against subsidiary of
British Americn Tobasco Company, Limited,
in Japanese controlled area in North China.
3608
Jan. 16
Japanese interference with British interests
at Shanghai.
3609
Jan. 16
Protection of foreign rights and interests
in Hankow: British representations.
3610
Jun. 16
Anglo-Japanese relations: British note of
Junu:ry 14. 139, reg: rding protection of
British. txrests in view of Japan's
policy in Chin.
3€11
Jn. 16
Americon property losses resulting from
Sino-Jopanese hostilities, 1937-1938.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
No.
Dote
Subject
3612
Jan. 17
Reaction to Americon note of December 3C.
193s.
3613
Jan. 17
Folisic 1 tport for December, 1938.
3614
Jon. 17
Jap nese iterfulence with British intere
nd occuprtion of British property in Shap!
3615
Jan. 16
Contingent expenses.
3616
Jan. 18
Hung rian-Japanese reltions.
3617
Jan. 18
Mops for Division of F:r Eastern Affairs.
3618
Jan. 18
New Jersey Zinc Compeny Patents.
3619
Jon. 1F
J.panese bon.bing of Aacricun Southern
Paptist Mission Hospit-l, Kweilin, Kwangsi.
3620
Jn. 18
Loc 1 ge Sc le Lat.
3621
Jon. 18
Jrpnese bombing of property of Christien
nd Missionary Alliancc, Kweilin, Kwangsi.
3€22
Jn. 1ε
Jup nese bombing of American Southern
L pcist Mission, Shiuchow, Kwantung.
3623
Jon. 18
Economic Assist ice to China
3624
J.n. 1ε
Reoporing of the Yangtze River to Foreign
Chipping.
3625
Jun. 16
Anericn property losses resulting from
Sino-J:panese conflict, 19s7-1938: South
China Mission of the Methodist Episcopel
Church, v ricus locaticns in Hopci and
Chahor.
3626
Jan. 19
Letturs Rog tory in the case of John Powell
end Cor  ny, Incornor ted vs. SS SOYO MARU
her ungines, te., Toyo Kisen Kabushiki
Keisho, nd K wesaki Kisen Kaisha.
3627
Jan. 1
Diplomotic Viso Report.
3628
Jen. 1
SulUNce open letter to the Prusident.
3629
Jan. 23
Anoricin propurty losses resulting from
Siho-Jspenese hcstilitis 1937-1938.
Mrs. Gorl: nd Leonard, Yu:np'ing, Shansi.
3630
Jan. 23
Jap-n's new policy in China: French
rupresenttious.
3631
J.n. 25
Amoric:n rropurty losses resulting from
Sino Japanes. onflict, 1937-1938. Method-
ist Episccr 1 Mission, T nyangchen, Anhwer.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
NO.
Date
Subjuct
3632
Jan. 25
Japanose bombing of property of Amerioor
Presbyterion Mission, North, at Hongyart,
Hunan Frovince, China.
3633
Jrn. 26
Fuel Oil Contract.
3634
Jen. 26
Contrict for repairs to the Embassy Build-
ings.
3635
Jan. 26
Jpanese interforence with British and
Fronch concessions et Tientsin: British
representations.
3636
Jan. 26
Jopanese bombing of Ev ngelical Luthern
Mission, Sh nsi, Hupch.
3637
Jn. 27
Tr..nsmitting copy of instructions from
Feruvian Foreign Minister to Peruvion
Minister in Jopn rel ting to the Peruvian
Cultur1 nd Economic Mission.
3638
J.n.. 27
The nddressus of the Prime Minister and
the Minist r for Forsign Aff irs t the
opening of the 74th Dit.
3639
Jun. 38
Alaska Snlmon situstion.
3640
Jn. 30
Furtnor implementetion of the National
Gurcrl Mobilization Law.
3641
J n. 30
Arriv 1 of Clerk Gertrude Beer.
3642
J.r.. 30
Arriv 1 cf Cj.rk W ldo Ruess.
3643
J.n. 30
Spoech ci Fin nce Minister Sotaro Ishiweta
b for: the Hous: of Represent tives of the
74th Dict.
3644
Jan. 30
J panoso bombing of property of Amoricin
Mothodist Mission, Chungking.
3645
J n. 30
Jaron so discrimination against British
int.re sus o Tsinetao.
3646
Jn. 30
J paruso int Irerence with Chinese Customs
it Gention.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
during Janucry 1939
No.
Date
Subject
1
Jan.1, 10 a.m.
Japan se interference with British
garrizon at Tientsin
2
Jan. 1, noon
Publicity on our note to the Foreign
Offia: of December 30, 1938.
3
Jan. 2, noon
Canton customs.
4
Jan. 4, noon
Japanese Cabinet changes.
5
Jan. 4, 3 p.m.
Cabinet changes.
6
Jan. 4, 5 p.m.
Cabinet changes
7
Jan. 5, 3 p.m.
Codes
8
Jan. 5, 6 p.m.
Japanese replies concerning bombings
of Americen property in China.
9
Jan. 5, 10 p.m.
Cabinet changes.
10
Jan. 6, 10 a.m.
Arrival of Mr. Espy.
11
Jan. 6, 11 a.m.
Requisitions.
12
Jan. 6, 4 p.m.
Press rcaction to our December 30
note.
13
Jan. 6, 5 p.m.
Requisiticns.
14
Jan. 6, 6 p.m.
Cabinet changes.
15
Jan. 9, 11 a.m.
Contingent expense forms.
16
Jan. 9, 8 p.m.
Proposed British note re Japan's
new policy.
17
Jan. 10, 6 p.m.
Newspaper report of Foreign Office
attitude toward foreign rights and
interests in China.
18
Jan. 1l, 10 a.m. For Commerce from Commercial Attaché.
19
Jan. 11, 6 p.m. Alaska salmon fisheries.
20
Jan. 12, noon
Refusal of Hawaiian immigration au-
thorities to permit Japanese banker
to land.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Subject
21
Jan. 13, 10 a.m. For Commerce from Commercial Attacné.
22
Jan. 13, 2 p.m. Canton customs.
23
Jan. 14, 9p.m.
Emplcyment of additional fireman.
24
Jan. 16, 8 p.m.
British note to Foreign Office re
new Japanese policy in China.
25
Jan. 17, 4 p.m.
Open letter from SHIUNSO to the
President of the United States.
26
Jan. 17, 6 p.m. Japanese press reaction to British
note of Jaruary 14.
27
Jan. 18, 11 a.m. Japanese gold shipments.
28
Jan. 19, 10 a.m. Codes.
29
Jan. 20, 10 a.m. Press reports of Ambassador Johnson's
visit to the United States.
30
Jan. 20, noon
For Conmerce from Commercial Attaché.
31
Jan. 20, 3 p.m.
French note to Foreign Office re
Japan's new policy.
32
Jan. 20, 5 p.m.
Confidential for the Secretary.
33
Jan. 20, 6 p.m.
ditto
34
Jan. 20, 7 p.m.
ditto
35
Jan. 20, 8 p.m.
ditto
36
Jan. 21, noon
Proposed visit of U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
37
Jun. 21, 1 p.m.
Request for new typewriters.
38
Jan. 21, 2 p.m.
Open letter to the Abassador re
American attitude toward Japan's policy.
39
Jan. 21, 3 p.m.
Return of Americans to Hankow.
40
Jan. 21, 4 p.m.
Annual address of Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
41
Jan. 24, 10 a.m. Japanese policy in China.
42
Jan. 24, 3 p.m. Jananese policy in China.
43
Jan. 24, 4 p.m. Ambassador's leave of absence.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Subject
44
Jan. 24, 7 p.m.
Discussions in the Diet concerning
Japan's new policy.
45
Jan. 26, noon
Questior. of economic retaliation
ag&inst Japan.
46
Jan. 26, 6 p.m.
Alaska risheries.
47, Jan. 26, 9 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
Jaran-C.ina-"Manchukuo" economic unir
48
Jan. 27, 6 p.m.
Study of economic state of Japan.
49
Jan. 27, 7 p.m.
Appointment of Masayuki Tani as
Japanese Ambassador to France.
50
Jan. 30, 6 p.m.
Visa for Chinese servant of
Brazilian Ambassador.
51
Jan. 30, 9 p.m.
Press report on Anglo-American
attitude toward Japan's new policy.
52
Jan. 31, noon
Return of Americans to Hankow.
53
Jan. 71, 3 p.m.)
54
Jan. 31, 4 p.m.)
55
Jan. 31, 5 p.m.)
56
Jan. 31, 6 p.m.)
57
Jan. 31, 7 p.m.)
Questior of economic sanctions.
58
Jan. 31, 8 p.m.)
59
Jan. 31, 9 p.m.)
60
Jan. 31,10 p.m.)
61
Jan. 31,11 r.m.)
62
Jan. 31, midnight
War Minister's stutement concerning
maintenance of Japanese troops in
China.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
TMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 5, 1939.
(Pages 26-29)
Tokyo's monthly report for February.
The first eight pages recount the Embassy's
approaches to the Foreign Office in regard to
(a) the financial situation at Chefoo, (b)
action of the Chefoo Harbor Office, (c) Ameri-
cans at Kuling, (d) restrictions imposed by
Japanese authorities at Tientsin, (e) restric-
tions on trade on the Yangtze, (f) a pass for
a representative of Anderson, Meyer, and
Company, (g) the unsatisfactory reply of the
Japanese to Ambassador Grew's previous approach
in regard to the Customs at Canton, (h) io cases
of violation of American property rights and
interests in China, (i) Japanese intention in
oooupying Hainan Island, (j) Japanese demands
in respeot to the Shanghai Municipal Council.
All of these matters have already been
reported to the Department in separate tele-
grams or despatohes.
In pages 8 to 10 is described Japanese
interest in (a) America's armament program,
(b) the Guam project, and (o) Mr. Grew's
representations in regard to Hainan Island.
The information in regard to the first two
points has previously been received in the
Department. In respect to the representations
in regard to Hainan, the Japanese press
unanimously

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
unanimously regarded the aotion as being taken
only for the purpose of taking concerted action
with Great Britain.
In pages 10 and 1l is desoribed Japanese
reaction to the terrorist activities at
Shanghai. This reaotion is already known to
the Department. Ambassador Grew's representa-
tions received no publioity; British representa-
tions were given wide publicity.
On page 12 is desoribed the occupation of
Hainan and its significance. The material is
not new.
The information on pages 13 and 14 in
regard to hostilities in China is not new.
In regard to Anglo-Japanese relations
(pages 14-17), it is stated that although no
marked change was shown in February, the
general sentiment in Japan of antagonism and
antipathy toward Great Britain was acoentuated
by continued differences.
In regard to Japanese-Soviet relations in
the fisheries question, it is stated that in
the House of Peers it was suggested (page 19)
that, in order to meet the strength of the
state-managed fisheries of Soviet Russia, all
Japanese fisheries in northern waters should
be under state management. It was stated that
the Government is in fact considering "a national
polioy company.
on

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
On pages 20-2l are reported Debuchi's
statements in the House of Peers in regard to
the inadvisability of Japan's isolating itself
in Asia. These statements were previously
reported to the Department in a telegram.
The publio announcement (page 22) that the
Social Mass Party, the most "liberal" party in
the Diet (35 representatives), and the Tohokai,
an ultra-reaotionary small party, would amalga-
mate was later denied as agreement could not
be reached between the two parties.
In the Diet and press (pages 23-24)
oritioiam was directed against the "self-
interested attitude of Government bureauorats".
The Foreign Minister stated in the Budget
Committee (page 24) that Japan would not, as a
general prinoiple, make good the losses
suffered by nationals of third powers in con-
neotion with the China Incident, save where
such losses deserved speoial consideration.
The Navy Minister stated (page 25) that
the Navy considers there is no particular need
for establishing a naval base on the continent
and that "for the present, therefore, the Navy
has not intentions of establishing such a base
in any part of China".
In 1935 the per capita tax (page 27) was
Yen 11.24 in Japan; in 1938 it was Yen 22.64.
The phenomenon of the rise in the price
of silk 1s desoribed on pages 27-28, in case
you

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
you are interested.
Japan conoluded trade agreements in l938
with Turkey, Italy, Poland, and Australia and
is now negotiating similar pacts with Germany,
France, Finland, Venezuela, Argentina, Paraguay
and Uraguay. (Page 29).
In many factories workers are now being
kept 15, 16, 18 and even 20 hours a day because
of pressure of demand for munitions and war
materials (page 30).

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
QF THE
ONI-MID
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Pokyo, March 13, 1939.
No. 3742
LEGAL ADVISER
BUBJECT:
RERORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
AP
MONTA OF FEBRUARY, 1939.
2
C
PARTMENT OF STAT
工
E OF THE ADVISER N
7
PR
INTERNATIONAL ECONIC AFAIRS
Corym FLE
APR 1 3 1939
The Hongrable
DEPARTMENT 
The Secretary of State,
A
Washington.
Sir
1
A
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
894.00
orJly 3, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embassy monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
of February, 1939.
0
Respectfully yours,
800
Joseph C. Grew.
JE:C
Enclosure:
1/ Report No. 149.
FTLED
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Moscow
n
Chungking
Conoulate General, Shanghai
3
Mukden
Harbin
Seoul
Consulate, Kobe
Osaka
Dairen
* Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.
In quintuplicate to the Department.
11

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 149
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAFAN DURING
THE MONTH OF FEBRUARY 1939.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
I N D E X
ANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Representations made by the Embassy regard-
ing Japanese activities interfering with or
restricting Americar rignts and interests
in China......
1,2,3,4:5
(b)
Inquiry of the Foreign Minister Rogarding
Japanese Intentions in Connection with the
Occupation of Hainan Island........
.6
(c) Representations Regarding the Jepaneso
Demands of the Shanghai Municinal Council...,
(d) General Relations....
.8,9,10
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
(1) Terroristic Activities in Shanghai.....l),ll
(2) Occupation of Hainan Island........
.12
(3) Militury Operitions.
.13,14
(4) Genorol Relations.
.14
(b) Gre t Britin
(1) British Inquiry to the Foruign Minister
Regarding Japanese Intentions in Con-
nection with the Occupation of Hainan
Island.....
.14,
(2) Bombing of Hong Kong Territory by
Japanese Planes on February l......
(3) General Relations..
.15.16
(4) Representntions Made by the British
Embnssy During the Menth of Febru ry...16,17
(c) France.
(1) French Represent tion Concerning French
Concession t Tiontsin....
(2) French Representations Regarding Hainan
Islnd.
.18

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES (Continued)
(a) Sovict Russia..
.18,19,20
(e) General International Relations
(1) Debuchi's Interpellation in tho Diet...20,21
(2) Italo-German-Japanese Anti-Comintern
Pact..
.22
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Politiccl Parties.....
.22,23
(b) The Diet..
23,24
(c) Important Statemonts by Government Officials..24,25
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION..
.25,26
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
.26,27
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONLITIONS..
.27,28.29
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. L BOR..
.29,30
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
- - - ) ( - - -

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Representations made by the Embassy Regarding
Japanese Activities Interfering with or Restrict
ing American Rights and Interests in China.
During the month of February, the Embassy mude, in
conformity with the Department's instructions, representations
to the Foreign Office regarding a number of specific incidents
of Japanese interference with and restrictions of American
rights and interests in Chinn.
On February 6, two notes were addressed to the Foreign
Minister in regard to recent actions taken by the Japanese navel
authorities at Chefoo. The one note* referred to the statement
of the Commander of the Japanese Landing Forces at Chefoo
that, effective January 15, 1939, export and import permits
issued by the Japanese naval authorities at Chefoo would be
required, that bills of exchange covering the merchandise must
be negotinted with the Yokohama Specie Bank at the "pegged"
r-te of exchange of the Federal Reserve Bank currency and that
the Japanese naval authorities on February 1 began refusing all
permits unless bills of exchange were sold to the Yokohama Specic
Bank at the "pogged" rate. The note then protested to the Japan-
esc Government against the requirement of these import and ex-
port permits nd also with respect to the elleged formation of
the guilds organized by certnin Japanese and Chinese merchants
to obtoin special privileges from the Japanese naval authorities
at Chefoo, on the grounds that these  ctivities constitute an
unwarranted interference with Americnn trade in China. The
ther note* cited the announcement of the Chofoo Harbor Office,
recently
Embassy's telegram No. 70, Februery 6; and Embassy's despatch
No. 3666, February 13, 1939.
Embassy's telegram No. 66, February 6; end Embessy's despatch
No. 3667, February 13, 1939.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
-2.
recently organized by the Japanese Navy, to the effect that on
and after January 15 it wou'd take over n number of impcrtant
functions of the chinese Maritine Customs, and protested egairst
the proposed action of the Shafoo Harbor offic on the ground
that such action by an ageney whioh is effe tively under Japan-
ese control constituted an unwarranted inturference with une
functions of the Chinese Maritime Customs in the mnintenance of
the integrity of which the United States has an interest.
Also, on February 6 the Counselor of the Embassy called
at the Foreign Office and in a conversation with the Direetor of
the American Bureru m de orrl representations concerning thrce
other subjects. Mr. Dooman referred to the situntion at Kuling
where a number of Ame: icans are still residing, and read and
presented to the Director : memorandum setting forth the American
osition in this respect. The memorandum was to the effect that
ltlhough American nationals had been and were being advised to
itharaw from pl ces of danger, obligation rests upon the
Japenose militery outhoritius, irrespective of whether Americon
notion ls did or did not witharaw from Kuling, to void injury to
Americon lives nd property there, that the presence of Amerie:
notionals and property at Kuling and ho possible proximity ot
such Americin nationals nd property to Chinese personnel or
quipment in no way lessens this obligation, nd that the
American Government reserves  ll rights on buhalf of itself nd
its nationols in respect of cl ims g inst the Japanese Govern-
ment for any damagus which moricun nation 1s or property may
ffer as a result of Japanese milit ry operations.*
Referring to the question of American rights and interest
it Tientsin, the Counsuior re'd and handed to the Diroctor
mmor:naum
Eubassy's telegram No. 68, Fehru ry 6; and Embassy's desp c
No. 3668, Febru.ry 13: 193?.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
memorandum setting forth information furnished by the American
Embassy at Peiping and the American Consul General at Tientsin
concerning he nature and extent of American interests in the
British and French Concessions at Tientsin, that Japanese mili-
tary nuthorities are reported to have placed certain irksome and
seemingly unwarranted restrictions upon American personal and
business interests in that city, and that these restrictions
had a tendency to stifle the legitimate ectivities of American
trade and o ther interests there. The Director remarked, in
regard to this memorandum, that it was his understanding that
as the authorities of the two Concessions were disposed to take a
"more reasonable attitude" the restrictions to which Mr. Dooman
referred either had been or were about to be relaxed and that ther
would probably be much improvement in the situation.*
The Counselor then took up the subject of the reopening
of the Yangtze River to foreign shipping. Mr. Dooman read end
handed to the Director two memoranda which set f orth respective-
ly the amount of cargo of Americon origin awaiting shipment at
Shanghai to points on the Yangtze River but detained on account
of existing restrictions on the movement of vessels on the
Yangtze River, and the amount of American-owned cargo awaiting
shipment from Hankow to the United States which could not be
transported for the same reason.**
It will be recalled that
this information was assembled by the American Consulates General
at Shanghai and Hankow conformably with the Department's instruc-
tjons*** and forwarded to the Embassy for use in conversation with
the Japanese authorities here.
on
* Embassy's telegram No. 69, February 6; and Embassy's despatch
No. 3674, Februry 14, 1939.
Embassy's telegram No. 67, Februry 6; and Embassy's despatcn
No. 3680, February 14, 1939.
Department's telegram No. 23, January 14, 2 p.m., to Shangh.i.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
On February 27, conformably with the Department's in-
structions, the Counselor of the Embassy called at the Foreign
Office and in a conversation with the Director of the American
Bureau orougnt to the attention of Mr. Yoshizawa the desire of
Anderson, Meyer and Company that & pass be issued to one of its
American employees to proceed from Shanghai to Kiukiang for the
purpose of looking after the property of the Company at the latte
city. The Counselor referred to representations made by the
American Consul General at Shanghai to the local Japanese auth-
orities there and informed the Director that those authorities
had declined thus far to issue such a pass.
On February 28 Mr.
Dooman addressed a letter to the Director reiterating his oral
remarks and stating that he had also taken up the subject with
the Director of the Naval Affairs Bureau of the Navy Department
and that he hoped that it would be possible for initiative to be
taken in Tokyo towards permitting the Company's representative
to proceed to Kiukiang.
It will be recalled, as reported in the monthly political
report from the Embassy for the month of January, that it was
agreed upon between the American, British, and French Ambassadors
that oral rejoinders would be made by the three Ambassadors to
the Foreign Minister in regard to the Japanese contention that,
"since the Canton area is at present occupied by the Japanese
Army, it is proper that the Canton Maritime Customs be placed
under the authority of the Japanese Army of Occupation".
on
February 17, when calling on the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
the Ambassador took occasion to state to the Minister orally
that the Japanese Government's reply of December 16, 1938, was
not responsive to the Ambassador's note No. 1l26 of November 24,
1938, in respect to the fact that the basis upon which the Japen-
ese

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
ese Government declined to accept his representations failed to
give consideration to the principal issue involved, namely, the
preservatio: of the integrity of the Chinese Maritime Customs ano
respect for American and foreign interests in the Customs, and urt
the Americen Government could not accept the Japanese contention
that mibitary occupation of the Canton area affords justification
for taking over the Customs. The Minister replied that he took
note of the Ambassador's statement but made no further comment.
On February 18 the British Ambessador left a memorandum on the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs which was along parallel lines.
In accordance with the Department's standing instructions,
the Embassy made representations to the Foreign Office in the
following instances for the violation of American property rights
and interests in China:*
Christin nd Mission ry Allionce, Tiping.
(Bombing).
American Church Mission, Kuling.
(Bombing).
Property Losses Sustnined by the Singer Sewing Machine Co.
Bombing of the Peniol Missionery Home, Sai Nam,
Sn Shui District, Kwantung.
Funds blocked in Jopen of Bates International Bag Comp: ny.
Americ n Property Losses Resulting fron Sino-Japanese
Conflict. Robert F. Fitch, Hangchow.
American Property Losses from Sino-Jap nese Conflict,
Chinese Engineering end Development Coapany, Nenking.
Amorican Proporty Losses from Sino-Japanese Conflict,
Werner G. Smith Company, Wanhsien.
American Property Lossos from Sino-Japanese Conflict,
C. Yatos McDaniel, Nanking.
(b)
These representations were reported by the following despatches
which are listed in the same order as the pbove American repre-
sentations: dospatches Nos. 3650, F3b. 2; 3658, Fub. 10;
3661, Feb. 10; 3665, Feb. 13; 3677, Fcb. 14; 3692, Feb. 21;
3693, Fob. 21; 3694, Feb. 21; 3695, Feb. 21, 1939.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
(b) Inquiry of the Foroign Minister Rogerding
Japanese Intentions in Connection with the
Occupation of Hainan Island.
On Februnry 17 the Ambassador called on the Minister
for Foreign Affairs and, in conformity with the Depertment's
instructions,*made an oral suntement in regord to the recent
announcement by the Japanese Government of the occupation of
J
the Island of Heinan. The statement was to the effect that the Am..
icnn Government had not failed to note the statement which the
Japanese Government had from time to time made that Japan had no
territorial ambition in rcgard to China; that the attention of
the Japanese Government was invited to the fact that there are
substantiol American missionary and educntional interests and
n number of American residents in the Island; that in view of
these circumstances end having in mind also the generel question
of the rel-tionships among the Powors, including the United
States, which h ve important interests in and with reference to
the specific nren - rel.tionships which h:ve formed the basis
of various intern. tional greements - the American Government
would be glad to be informed as to the intentions of the Japan-
ese Government in connection with the occupation of Hainan. The
Minister, in reply to this statement, said that the purpose of
the occupation of Hainan Island was to s trengthen the blockade of
the South Chine Const nd to hasten the suppression of the Chiang
Kai-shck rigime, nd, repeating the former statements of the
Japaneso Government that Japan had no torritorinl embitions in
China, he added that the occupetion "will not go beyond milit ry
nocessity."
(c)
Department 1 rm No. 0, F y 15, 1909.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
(c) Representations Regerding the Jepanese Demands
of the Shanghai Municipcl Council.
In accordance with the Department's instructions,*the
Ambassador made oral repres-ntations on Februcry 27 to the Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs in regard to the recent situation
at Shanghai, und left with the Vico Minister an informal memor ncue.
of his oral statement.
The statement referred to the demands
contcined in the communication addressed by the Japenese Consul
General on Febru ry 22 to the Municipal Council and to the
Municipal Council's reply of Febru ry 25, and set forth the American
position in rel tion to the International Settlement, to the effect
that questions relating to the Settlement, especially proposals
for changes in the Commission, the municipal st ff, nd the adminis
trative practices, etc., should be dealt with on the basis of law,
treaty rights, and considorations of justice nd efficiency rather
than on  basis of the wishes of any ono Power supported by mili-
tory force and pleading considerations of militery necessity;
that neither the Chinese authorities nor any foreign Governments
have relinquished or waived in Japen's favor any of their rights
and obligations by law or by treat'; and that the whole siturtion
at Shenghei is one of outst nding  nd import nt concern to all
Powers which heve contacts with and interests in China and in
trade with Chine. The statement then pointed out that, with
this in mind, the Government of the United States expected that
the Japanese outhorities would give due considoration to the
rights and interests of all concerncd.
The Vice Minister suid that he took note of these repre-
sentations and would convey them to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs. He inquired whether these representations should be
considere
Department's telogram No. 65, Febru'ry 24, 1 p.m., to Shanghai.
and Eabassy's despatch No. 3723, March 2, 1939.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
considered as being included in the netogictions which were the
oing on in Shanghai bctween the Municipal Council and the Japan-
ese Consul General in thot city. The Ambossedor replied in the
negative but expressed the hope cf the United States Government
that these reprusentations would be reflected in the negotictions
and find a response cspecially in the attitude of the Japanes
cuthorities in connection therewith.*
(d) Gener 1 Relations.
Although ε story appe red in the local press on Februrry 6
that the Japanese Government would shortly reply to the American
note of December 30 concerning Americer rights and interests in
Chine, the Foreign Office informed the Embassy that therc was no
truth whotever in it nd nothing further in this rug rd occurred
during the month.** Furthermore, beyond sone comments in the
Diet to the offect tht offorts must be continued to g in
American and other foreign understanding of Japan's aim in
the For Enst little public note w-s t ken of the American position
with regord to Chinn. However, the Americn ormement program
and the proposed nerican r. v 1 plans in regard to the Nestern
Pacific roused widesprend interest. The gener 1 attitude assumed
by the press wes that meisures tewurd strengthening of the United
States' P.cific defenses were designed to unforce American policy
in support of the prosurvation of territori 1 integrity, to
restr in the unlimitua dev lopment of Japan in the Far East,
particul rly in J pan's southwird navance, es well as to bring
pressure on Japon to respect the "open Door" in Chine.
The
Embassy's tele r m No. 1il, Febru-ry 27; nd Embassy's despetch
No. 3723, March 2, 1939.
**
Embassy's telegr m No. 6., Febru ry 6; Enbossy's despatch No.
Febru:ry 10, 19.59.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
The amount of publicity given to the elimination by the
House of Representotives of the item in the Navel Appropriations .
Bill to develop the harbor and aviction facilities of Guem in-
dicnted tho cnreful attention th t had been given to thnt projeot
by the Japanese. The project eppears to have been considered
with serious concern from the point of view of its possibly
portending the creation of a naval base at Guem for offensive
action against Japan. The rejection of the so-termed "proposal
to fortify Guam" was commented upon editorially by the prass to
tho effect thet it was a wise decision on the pirt of the Lower
House, that it inaic ted a temporing of the fervor, which had
exceeded norm-l bounds, favoring expansion of naval bases in the
Pacific rcns, that such a fortification on an island far closer
to the imaginary onemy, Japan, thon to the United States, would
bc of little str tegic valuc, nd th.t it mey only prove
provocative to Japan, bringing into reality a dangerous condition
non-existent at present, in  similar way thet the extensive
works of Imperil Russia in the Fr Enst worc, contrary to ex-
poctntion, one of the factors provocative of the Russo-Japanese
wor.
The only offici-l st-tument mode on the subject was by
the Novy Minister in ruply to n interpellation in the Diet in
which he snid that no importancu was attached by the Japanese
Navy to the propos l to fortify Gu m.*
The inquiry  ddrussed by the Amb ssador to the Foreign
Minister reg rding Japanese intentions towards Hainan Island was
prominently funtured in ll the rewspepers. In this connection
the press was unonimous in declnring that the pproach was made
ctu:lly only for the purpose of toking common and concorted
ction with Gruat Brit in, but that it w's to be noted that this
representtion
* Embessy's telegram No. 109, February 25, 1939.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
-iC-
representation was one piece of evidence of a tendency that had
become evident in regard to American actions of late to slign
itself with Great Britain and France in common internetional
action and merited the closest observation.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTIHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
(1). Terroristic Activities in Shanghai.
The situation that developed during the month at Shanghai
793.94
over the terroristic acts in the International Settlement was
given full publicity in Japun. A demand was made in the Diet
that the Japanese Government employ all practical means, incining
those of force if necessary, to ensure the maintenance of peace
and order in the Settlement. Both the Foreign Minister and the
War Minister made official statements regarding the subject.
The former expressed the opinion that the terroristic acts in-
volved the right of self-defense, and that the Japanese Govern-
ment has in mind plans to deal with the situation both at the
time being and from a more permanent point of view; but, he
explained, the right of self-defense would not be prematurely in-
voked. The War Minister stated that so long as the .unicipal Coun-
cil was unable to guarantee the safety of the lives of Japanese
natioials and pro-Japanese Chinese in the Settlemerts, the
Japanese Governnent could not rely on the present policing of the
Settlement, and that if such a sitution continued there would
be no help but for Japan to take appropriate and effective
measures of self-defense.
In

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
-11~
In the editorials that appeared in the local press on the
situation, support was generelly given to the demand made in the
Diet for Japanese action in regard to the Internctional Settle-
ment. Comment was made that the present Municipal Administration
in Shanghai was insincere and incompetent, and it was put forwarc
in some sections of the press that sclf-protection stands above
treaty rights and that if the International Settlement authorities
are unable to guarantec the safety of the lives of the Japanese
and Chinese the cuthorities forfeit in part their police powers.
In taking up the rem rk made by the Foreign Minister that Jepen
would denl with the situntion "from a more permenent point of
view" the opinion was asserted in the uditorinls of several news-
popers thet a permanent and fundnmental solution of the whole
question of the Settlement should be evolved along lines of
rendition of the foreign concessions and abolition of the system
under which Chin: is treeted by foreign Powers as a colony. At
the same time other editori ls, in elluding to possible futurc
Japanese measures, made no reference to the bolishing of foreign
trenty rights nd concessions in China but expressed the view thai
Japan should displece the prodominant position of other countries,
particularly that of Great Britain, in the administration of the
Settlement and, above ll,  in control of the policing power of
Sh:nghi.
It is noticurble and signiiicant in connection with
Jopan's attitude toward Great Brit in over the Shanghui situution
that wherens no report ppeared in the Jupunese press of the
American Ambassador's r present tions regarding the situation in
Shanghai, the British representations wure given wide publicity,
obviously in n effort to center ttention on Grect Britrin.
(2).

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
(2): Occupation of Hainan Island.
The occupation of Hninan Island, begun on Fubrucry 10
and praoti:elly completed by the end of February, as well es
being the major militnry operation during the month ws n move
of considernble political significence. Although the Govern-
ment announced thct the occupation was carried out beccuse it w
dcemed necessary from a military standpoint in order to prevent
the importation of war supplies to the Chinese in southwest
China, it is noted that the Japanese military forces had been
in possession since last utumn of Waichow Isl nd from which
base the Burma and Indo-Chinc supply routes to China could be
reeched by sircraft without difficulty and the traffic in the
Gulf of Tongking rendily controlled. With the occupation of
Hainan Isl nd, however, a position of far greater tactical and
stratogical importance has been obtained by the Japanese. For,
if the Islend is converted into a well-equipped naval and air
bose, not only will it dominste the whole const of the Asiatic
Continent betwen Hong Kong nd the southorn tip of the Indo-
Chinn peninsuln but its holders might ba able to check all
tr: ffic into  nd out of Hnnoi nd effect control of the South
Chine Sen betweon the mainlrnd nd the island of Luzon and
limit the sphere dominated by Sing pore. Moreover, the seizure
of the Island may h ve further possible significance in relation
to the Japanuse southward "dv nce policy: with Japanese Mandated
Islands to the cast, Formosa to the north, the taking over of
Hainan Island will, in effuct, constitute semi-encirclement of
the Philippine Islands by Japanese controlled islands.
(3).

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
(3). Military Operations.
Aside from the joint military and naval occupation of
Heinan Island, no military cvents of major importance occurred
during February and what operations were reported were directed
egainst remnants of Chinese troops and gainst guerrilla bunds
in Japanese-occupied areas. The most notable of such campaigns
took place in southern Hopei, cnd western Shantung provinces.
The Japanese during the first part of the month claimed to have
encircled between 50 nnd 70 thousend Chinese troops, under Generai
Lu-Chung-lin, in southern Hopei Province in and around Kihsien
and Nankung. No major battles were reported but Japanese announce
ments claimed that with four divisicns they had been able to oocup
considereble territory formerly held by the Chinese and hopef to
trap the entire Chineso forces.
Some further fighting was reported in southwestern Shansi.
in northeastern Honan near T-ikang, in north and central Shantung,
in Ki ngsu near Pinling and near Hangchow, and to the north and
west of Canton, and it was announced that in the Wuhen area a
number of engegements took placo betweon Japanese forces and
Chinese guerrilln b nds and regulsr army units. On the Nanchang
front further minor skirmishes continued to occur along the
Hsiushui river line although there ppers to have been no
pparent desire on the part of either side to undertake decisive
mensures.
On the same front the only serious fighting which
occurred was thnt in the Loshan Mountains round Kuling, where
the Japenese started their offensive to make ? final cleanup of
the Chinese forces which have been encamped in these mountains
since last summer.
The

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
The principal Japanese aviation activities occurred in
northwest China where Chengchow in northern Honan and various
towns in Shensi ware raided on a number of  occcsions, several
air-raids also having been m de on Lanchow in Kensu Province.
The Japanese claimed to have destroyed during these ruids on
Lanchow l24 planes in the air and on the ground, while admitting
the loss of only two heavy bombers. Other scattered rids on
vnrious towns in Central and South China were reported.*
(4). General Reletions.
Much publicity was given during the month under roview
regarding Jnpanese plens for the economic nd commercial develop-
ment ond control of China. With regard to North Chine in par-
ticulnr, it appenred that every effort was being made to carry
out J pan's program of oxploit tion. No now political develop-
ments were reported in regnrd to the new puppet régimes in the
Jopnnese-occupied reas of Chinu nor in regard to the e stablishmen
of a central government for those areas.
(b) Great Britain.
(1). British Inquiry to the Foreign Minister
Regarding Japanese Intentions in Connection
with the Occupation of Hainan Island.
O. February 14 the British Ambassador called on the
Foreign Minister and inquired orally regarding the Japanese in-
tentions in occupying Hainan Island. The Foreign Minister made
the same statement in reply to this inquiry as he had given the
741.
day before to the French Ambassador. This statement is reported
VY
in the section below.**
(2)
This section prepared with the assistance of the Military
Attaché's Office.
**
Embassy'3 telegram No. 88, February 14, 1939.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
(2). Bombing of Hong Kong Territory by Japanese
Planes on February 21.
Upon receipt of a report from the Governor General of
Hong Kong of the bombing which occurred on February 2l by Japan-
ese planes of Hong Kong territory near the Cuinese frontier at
Shumchun, the British Ambassador made a strong protest to the
Foreign Minister against this attack on British territory. A
brief announcement by the War Department was made concerning
the incident in which the incident was described as an accident
that involved one pilot who mistook Hong Kong territory for
Cuinese territory and dropped two bombs on a railway train. On
February 22 the Foreign Minister made to the British Ambassador
an expression of regret for the incident and gave an undertaking
to pay indemnification for the damage to life and property as
well as an assurance that the recurrence of such an incident
would be prevented. The British Eubassy, on Feurualy 28,
informed the Japanese Foreign Office that the British Government
regarded the incident as having been closed on these lines.*
(3).
General Relations.
Anglo-Japanese relations showed no marked change in
February although the general sentiment in Japan of antagonism
and antipathy towards Great Britain was eccentuated by the con-
tinued differences between the two countries. Many articles
were featured in the press respecting British assistance to the
Chinese National Government. Continuous attention was called to
British loans to the Chieng Kai-shek régime and to the alloged
passage of wer materials to China through Burme. Resentment
was shown and strong exception was taken in newspaper editorials
to
* Embassy's telegram No. 106, February 23, and Embassy's despatch
No. 3716, March 1, 1939.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
-r6-
to the interforence of a British eruiser with the inspection by
the Customs authorities at Tsingteo of British merchant vessels
and to the British Ambassador's to China visit to North China.
As mentioned in the foregoing section, British influence in
Shanghai was singled out as the object of proposed attack.
On the part of Grent Britnin, the bombing of Hong Kong,
the possibility that the occupation of Heinan Island might become
a future thrent towards British influence in the East Indies or
the initial move of Jepen's expansion southward, and further
restrictions on British interests and trade with North China,
were disturbing developments.
(4). Representations Mnde by the British Embassy
During the Month of February.
A long series of representations were made by the British
Embassy to the Japanese Government a number of which, it will be
noted, relating to incidents which wore also taken up by the
American Embassy with the Foreign Office. The following are the
more importont represent:tions of the British Embassy;*
Canton Customs.
Embargo on Nool ond Hemp from North China.
Japonese interference with British Intorosts in
Shanghai.
British Claims for Property Losses in China.
Chefoo Trade Restrictions and Organization of Guilds
ct Chefoo.
Chefoo Customs Administration.
Tax Discrimination Agninst B.A.T. in North China.
British Claims for Froperty Losses in China.
Japanese Interference with Tientsin
Japanese
*These represent tions were reported in the following despatches
which are listed in the same ordor ns the above representations:
Despatches Nos. 3701, Feb. 23; 3662, Feb. 13; 3663, Feb. 13; 3664,
Feb. 13; 3666, February 13; 3667, Feb. 13; 3669, Feb. 13; 3675,
Feb. 14; 3674, Febru ry 14, 1939.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Japanese Discrimination against Britisn Interests at
Tsingtao.*
Tax Discrimination Aeainst B.A.T. in North China.
Embargo on Wool and Hemp from North China.
British Clcim for Property Losses in China.
Japenese interference with British Interests and
Occupation of Property in Shanghai.
Japanese Interferonce with British Newspapers in
North China.
Protection of Foreign Property in China nd Reserva-
tion of Rights.
Chefoo Trade Restrictions.
Foreign Avintion in China.
Terroristic Activities in the International Settlement
at Shanghri.
(c) France.
(1). French Representation Concerning the. French
Concession at Tientsin.
On January 30, the French Ambassador addressed a note
to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs in regard to Japanese
actions concerning the French Concession at Tientsin. The note
referred to the measures taken by the local Japanese authorities
at Tientsin which in effect tended to isolate the Concession.
After stating that the French authorities in the Concession
were doing everything possible to maintain its neutrality and
to prevent disturbances from occurring inside its confines, the
note requested that steps be taken by the Japanese Government to
terminate the Japanese measures.**
(2)
* These representations were reported in the following despatches:
which are listed in the same order as the above representations:
Despatches Nos. 3681, Feb. 14; 3688, Feb. 20; 3689, Feb. 20; 3690,
Feb. 20; 3691, Feb. 20; 3704, Feb. 24; 3705, Feb. 24; 3707, Feb. 2
3710, Feb. 28; 3723, March 2, 1939.
** Embassy's despatch No. 3674, February 14, 1939.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
(2). French Representations Regarding
Hainan Island.
In its international aspects, the Japanese occupation or
Hainan Island is undoubtedly of concern to the French colony of
Indo-China. While under Chinese sovereignty the Island had re-
mained undeveloped and practically unfortified, and, therefore,
its military and strategical significance to France was negligibie
However, should it now be built up by the Japanese as a military
stronghold, due to its geographical location, it might well con-
stitute a major threat to the security of Indo-China. It was
therefore to be expected that France had to take official cog-
nizance of the military occupation of this Island and on Febru-
ary 13 the French Ambassador called on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and inquired as to the purpose, the character, and dura-
tion of the occupation. He was informed, in reply, that the pur-
pose of the occupation was to intensify the blockade of the South
China Coast, thet the character of the occupation was military,
and that the length of the occupation would depend upon military
considerations.*
Nothing further in regard to this subject occurred during
the month.
(d) Soviet Russia.
The stalemate over the Siberian fishery question con-
tinued throughout the month and no concrete measures appeared to
have been reached to break the impasse. At the beginning of
February it was announced that new instructions were being sent
to Ambassedor Togo at Moscow to communicete orally to Foreign
Commissar Litvinov three Japanese "determinations". These
"determinations"
* Embassy's telegram No. 88, February 14, 1939.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-:9-
"determinations" were stated to be (1) Japan is determined to
uphold the fishing rights in Siberia which were acquired through
the Portsmouth Treaty; (2) Japan is deturmined to carry on normai
fishing operations regardloss of the circumstances thet may arise
from the expiration of the provisional truaty with the Soviet
Union; (3) the Japanese Government will continue diplomatic nego-
tiations but is determined in doing so not to make any further
concessions. Later in the month it wes announced that on Feb-
ruary 22 a hoated discussion took place between Ambassador Togo
and Commissar Litvinov; tht Mr. Togo hnd said that Japan cannot
accept the Soviet proposal to uction off the fishing lots on
March 15 and, should negotiations collopse, will t ke whatever
protective measures she sees fit to gu'runtee her fishing inter-
ests, and th t the Commissir had retorted that a serious situation
would arise if Japanese fishing bonts ventured into Soviet waters
and that he believed it would be difficult to localize any incident
that might result from such incursions. In the meantime, fishing
interests in Japan were ruported by the press to be going ahead
with regard to preperations to fish in Soviet waters, "pact or no
pect", and it was said that some 150 fishing bonts with comple-
ments of 20,0oo workers were nweiting in the Hokkaido the first
siling in April.
The question of Japan's fishery in Soviet waters and the
elleged Soviet pressure on Japanese oil and conl concessions in
North Saghalien were dealt with on numerous occasions in the
Diet. In the House of Peers it wos suggested that in order to
meet the strength of the state-managed fisheries of Soviet Russin,
ell Japanese fisheries in northern waters should be under st te
monagement.
In reply to this interpellation, the Minister of
Agriculture nd Forestry is reported to heve stated that he agreed
with

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
with this suggestion and that the Government is, "in fact, con-
sidering a national policy compeny", but that due to practical
difficulties in the way of uniting all existing private com-
panies into e single national company, the Government is con-
templating en alternate plan of establishing a separate Govern-
ment company for the control of the existing fishery enterprises.
On February 14 the House of Representativus, in connection with
this subject, unanimously adopted a joint resolution of all the
political perties urging the Government to "take swift and
approprinte measures for the protection of the Japanese rights
and interests". The adoption of the resolution was preceded by
statements made by various members of the House recommending tem-
porary occupation of the Kamchatka fishing grounds and even of
North Saghalien, if such a step is necessary to protect Jepanese
rights and interests in the Soviet Union.
(e) General Internation:l Reletions.
(1) Debuchi's Interpelletion in the Diet.
In the middle of Fobruary, Mr. Katsuji Debuchi, the former
Ambassador to the United States, interpellated in the House of
Poers in regard to further endeavors by the Government to correct
the wrong conceptions held abroad concerning Jepan's internal
political situation and Jepan's intentions with regard to China.
Mr. Debuchi is reported to have snid th:t Grent Brit in and the
United States are entertaining the view that Japun has  dic-
tatorial and totalitarian Government and that it was necessary
to remove this misconcoption. To this statement the Prime
Minister is quoted as replying thot "it is cleer that our State
is

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
is neither democrntic nor dictatorial", and that ho was aware
that it was necessary to clarify to foreign Powers the fact thet
"Japan is neither a democracy nor a totalitarian Stcte but that
the supreme prerogatives of sovereignty are vested in the hands
of the Emperor". In regard to the settlement of questions at issu..
between Jepan nd third Powers over the new conditions that have
arisen in China, Mr. Debuchi reportedly st ted that a settlement
of these questions must be undertaken and that "any narrow-minded
ideas of entrenching ourselves in a corner of East Asin must be
shunned". The Foreign Ministor, in reply to this statement, is
said to hnve declared that Japen had no ider of creating a small
world of its own in East Asia and agreed with the former Ambassador
that Japan must not isolete itself from the rest of the world. The
interpellator then referring to the specific question of the open-
ing of the Yangtze River, was reported to have said that "the
Yangtze River is the principal economic artery in China and its
opening will, I believe, contribute to the construction of a new
East Asia. I, therefore, hope that in so far as it does not inter-
fere with military actions, the river will be opened to as great
an extent as possible", and to have asked "when will the river be
opened?"
It is reported that in reply to the questicn, Admiral
Yonai, the Navy Minister, after denying that the Yangtze, in
principle, is "an international river" or "the common property
of third Powers," admitted the value of its commercial use to
te life of the Chinese people and said that while no definite
statement could be made at present because of strategic necessity,
he hoped that the orening would materialize as quickly as prac-
ticable.*
(2)
Embassy's telegram No. 97, February 18, 4 p.m.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
(2) Italo-German-Japanese Anti-Comintern Pact.
Reference was made in the Diet in February to a scheme
for the strengthening of the Italo-German-Japanese anti-Comintern
Pact. However, although some of the Diet members are reported to
have strongly urged that the Pact should be advanced and turned
into a military alliance, nothing further regarding the matter
was made public.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Political Parties.
It was publicly announced on February 9 that two minor
political parties, the Social Mass Party, and the Tohokai, would
merge to form a single national totalitarian party. The Social
Mass Party, which is led by Iso Abe and has 35 representatives
in the Lower House, is considered - in a comparative sense -
the extreme left party of the Diet.
Until 1937 its program
was one of social democracy, but in that year its policies were
modified in conformity with the trend in Japan away from liberal
political tendencies and the party turned to a program that was
along lines of totalitarianism. The Tohokai, headed by Seigo
Nakano, is an ultra-nationalist group which has but 12 representa-
tives in the Lower House. A joint manifesto issued by these two
leaders stated thet, lthough the perties had hed different views
in the past, their concern for the welfare of the State end the
people had been the same and that, on the basis of the principle
of Government by no classes and by no factions, had docided to
form a national totaliterinn party. However, it soon appeared
that

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
23-
this decision by the two parties to merge was not to be imple-
mented. It wns loarnod that the members of the two parties
had not been fully consulted in the matter and were not agreed
upon its desirability; and also it developed that no ngreament
could be arrived nt as to who should lend the proposed new group.
An announcement appeared at the end of the month that the merger
had been abandoned, at least for the time being. Despite the
fact that the two parties concerned in this matter are of relative
minor political importance in Jepan, the question of their merger
aroused a good deal of public interest duc to its possible sig-
nificance in any trend towards the growth of a strong totalitarian
party or movement in Japan.
(b) The Diet.
Both Housos of the Diet were engaged during the month
in considering Government bills. An outline of these bills is
given in the section below under "Course of Legislation". With
the consideration of these bills, there also continued inter-
pellations in co itto meetings ond discussions ensued in the
House of Representotivus and the House of Peers concerning the
Government's foruien nd domestic policies.
The question of reform of Government administration which
hnd first arisen during the tine of th Konoyo C.binet was again
brought up for discussion in the Diet in February. In the Upper
House, Baron Kimmochi Okure is ruported to have declared that the
Govcrnment officinls are seeking from the nation cooperetion for
the Government's policies merely by issuing orders, that coopera-
tion of the people with the Government cannot be effective when
it is forced upon them in this manner, that as far as the people
are

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
are concerned Japan has na-ional solidarity but that there is a
necessity of more solidarity in the Government itself, where the
officials are too much concerned in struggling for authority ena
in fostering the ends of their perticular departments. The Prime
Minister replied to this interpellation that the Goverrment realiz.
that the execution of domestic reforms was urgently necessary and
that full attention would be paid to it but he made no commitment
as to what measures he proposed to adopt to carry out the
"necessary reforms". The criticism of Baron Okura waw echoed in
a number of editorials in the press which asserted that the public
was indignant over what it felt was a self-interested attitude on
the part of the Government bureaucrats, maintained that many of th.
present officials were inefficient, and that their concepts of
business management and administration were incompetent, and re-
quested that the Government should now endeavor to engage able
men for official positions.
Reference is made tc further interpellations and discussic!
in the Diet during February in the preceding sections of this repo
(c) Important Statements by Government Cfficials.
Besides the statements by Government officials referred
to in the foregoing sections of this report, the following importar
statements were made during the month under review by Covernment
Ministers before the Diet:
The Foreign Minister in reply, on February 1, to an in-
terpellation in the Budget Committee of the House of Representetive
is reported to have stated that Japan would not, as a general prin-
ciple

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
ciple, make good the losses suffered by nationals of third Powers
in connection with the China Incident, save where such losses
deserved special consideration.
The Navy Minister in reply, on February 8, to an inter-
pellation in the Budget Committee of the House of Representatives
is reported to have stated that he felt that there was need, in
carrying out reforms in the economic structure of the country, for
a limit of controlled economy, that control over everything from
production to distribution to consumption would only lead to econon
ic ruin, and that a middle course betwcen absolute freedom and
absolute control was advisable.
On the same day, the Navy Minister, in reply to another
interpellation in the Budget Committee of the House of Representat.
tives, stated that the Navy considers that there is no particular
need for establishing n naval base on the continent and that "for
the present, therefore, the Navy has no intentions of establishing
such a bese in any part of China".
IV. CCURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Over 40 bills were presented by the Govornment to the Diet
for legislative enactment. The ordinary budget nmounting to
Yen 3,694,000,000 referred to in the Imbassy's monthly political
report for January, was unanimously approved by the Lower House
and referred to the House of Pcers.
Two deficiency budgets for the
1938-39 genora1 accounts which tota11ed over Yen 200,000,000 were
presented for enactment; but by the end of Februery the Government
had yet to submit the proposed China Incident Budget and the
Specinl Army and Navy Expansion Budget for the coming year. It is
noted that these budgets are expected to exceed Yon 6,00o,000,00o.
Besides

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
Besides a number of routine and minor bills, the following
more important measures also came up for debate during February:
the Health Control Bill to provido stricter control for the preven-
tion of social diseases; four shipping bills to assist the financir:
of shipbuilding end to regulate and control tho Japanese shipping
industry; the Steel Import Bill, to provide for the importation
free of duty of various clesses of steel and iron ond their product:
an insurance bill; five bills relating to arbitration, to permit
various kinds of pursonal disputes to be settled by arbitration
instead of in the courts; a religious bill* to define the status
of religious organizations end to permit Govornment control of
such organizations; a military sucrets bill, to suppress and
prevent industrial espionage,** end the Rice Distribution Control
Bill, to plnco the distribution of rice under Government control,
to assure adequate supplies'of rice for tho nation and to curb
speculation in that commodity. In regard to this last cited bill
it is noted that the proposed measures providing for a virtual
national monopolization of the distribution of rice brought forth
n storm of protest from rice dealers and officinls of rice exchenges
in ell parts of Japan. Manifestos were issued by the rice dealers!
associntions and dclegations came to Tokyo nd held public meet-
ings in demonstration agninst the measure.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Only one lot of Government bonds, amounting to
Yen 300,000,000, was: issued and floated during the month. This
issue brought the national debt up to almost Yen 17,000,000,000.
Figures
* Embassy's despatch No. 3722, March 1, 1939.
**Embassy's despatch No. 3714, March 1, 1939.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 1.00)
Figures were issued during the month regarding the amoun-
of savings by the nation for the first nine months of the current
fiscal year, i.e., from April 1, 1938 to December 1, 1938.
figures announced by the Finance Ministry for this period were
Yen 5,665,000,000, which amount was said to be 70 per cent of
the goal of Yen e,000,000,000 set for national thrift, for int
current fiscal year.
Some interesting statistics were also released during fe)-
ruary regarding the increase in taxation in Japan in recent yenrs
According to the figures submitted by the Finance Ministry to the
House of Representatives, per capita internal taxes in the country
had been doubled during the past four years. In 1935 the per
capita tax was Yen 11.24 and in 1938 Yen 22.64. The following
table was published in the press showing the increase both in
direct and other taxes for the four years:
Fiscal Year
Direct Taxes
Other Taxes
Total
1935
6.17
5.07
11.24
1936
7.19
5.22
12.42
1937
12.11
6.06
18.18
1938
14.68
7.96
22.64
VI. GENERAL ECONCMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITICNS.*
Sentiment in general business circles continued depressed
during the month, mainly due to the rigid control measures which
have been affecting practically every phase of business activity.
The various Government bills announced as cortemplated or sub-
mitted to the Diet in February further intensifying state control
were said to be adding to the difficulties not only of foreign but
also of domestic trade.
One of the outstanding developments during the month was
the very sharp rise in raw silk prices which by the last days of
February
This section propared with the assistance of the Commercial
Attaché's Office.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
February had soared to above Yen 1,Oo0 per bale. This situation
was brought about not by demand from abroad, but partly by
unprecedented requirements from domestic quarters, partly by
curtailmenc of supply in Japan and partly also by speculation.
Since cotton textiles have been prohibited for domestic consumptio.
Japanese families have been resorting to silk goods which are free
from state restrictions. Last year's silk production was approxi-
mately 20 per cent below that of 1937. With this sharp decline in
output, coupled with a continued fair demand from ebroad, the
marked increase in local consumption and the paucity of stocks,
a rise in market price became inevitable but was as well accen-
tuated by speculators who were predicting an even more stringent
situation in the months to come. Prices of other commodities also
strengthened nnd it was announced that the Government, becoming
apprehensive of the general tendency for rising prices in the
country, bad decided to t ke steps to curb this tendency. It
was reported that the present Central Price Policy Commission would
be reorganized, that Mr. Seihin Ikeda, former Finance Minister,
was to become its new chairman, and that it would immediately
proceed with steps to devise and put into operation an effective
price control system. Following these announcements it was re-
ported that the textile in ustry had decided voluntar'ly to reduce
the price of many textile articles, and retail prices were reported-
ly accordingly cut on such articles from 15 to 30 per cent.
Thd stock market developed & more encouraging turn around
the middle of February and quotations showed a modurete but steady
upward tendency. This was largely due to current higher commodity
prices. However, towards the end of the month with the Government
attempts

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
attempts to check this price advance the stock quotations tended to
weaken. Money rates were easy throughout the month and a large supp:
of funds availeble for investment. It was announced by the Bank of J.
that a tota1 sum of Yen 279,000,000 was either invested or called for
by business establishments.
Exchange rates showed little ch ne, fluctuations in the yen-
dollar quotations being confined to narrow limits and adhering close-
1y to the 2725 level.
Statistics released for the foreign trade for the first two montl
showed an excess of imports for the combined trade of January and Feb-
ruary of Yen 69,000,000. Tota1 trad3 for these two months was Yen
110,000,000 above th:t for the corresponding two months of 1938, the
figures nmounting to Yen 882,000,000 nd Yen 774,000,000 respectively.
On Februrry 4, Mr. Hajime Mitsushima, Chief of the Trade Bureau o
the Foreign Ministry, in reply to n interpell tion in the Budget Com-
mittee of the House of Represontotives, is ruported to have announced
that Japen in 1938 had concluded trade agreements with Turkey, It ly,
Poland nnd Australie nd is now nogoti ting for similar pacts with
Germany, France, Finlend, Vunezuel, Argentina, Prraguay nd Uruguey.
These compensatory or barter greemonts conform to ihe Materinl Resour
Mobilization Plan, by which Jpon's foreign trode is restricted and
controlled.
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF ALERICAN CCMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTRESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
There appeared a notice in the local press on February 16
concerning a proposed ordinonce shortly to be promulgated by the
Welfare Ministry which would limit the hours of work of workers in
the mechanical and metallurgical industries to 12 hours a day. It
vos estimated that bout a million workers would be ffected by this
ordinance.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
ordinance.
In the press articles reporting this proposed ordinance,
data weregivenboncerning the present hours of labor now in effe
in the industries concerned. It was stated that due to the
pressure of the demand for munitions and war materials, many
factories are understood to be keeping workers for 15, 16 and 
and, even in some instances,20 hours a day.
The projected ordinance reportedly provides that workers
may not be employed for longer than 12 hours a day, except under
special circumstances, the working day may be extended to l4 hours
although this may not happen more than seven days each month, and
that there are to be at least two rest days each month.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to rerort.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 1.00)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
No.
Date
Subject
3647
February 1
Fifteenth International Congress of
Architects.
3648
February 2
Japanese Interference with British Inter-
ests at Shanghai.
3649
February 2
Exchange of Publications - Social Security
Board.
3650
February 2
Christian and Missionary Alliance, Taiping.
Bombing of
3651
February 3
Mitsubishi Monthly Circular.
3652
February 3
Partial Release of Funds in Japan of the
International Telephone and Telegraph Corp.
3653
February 4
Diplomatic visa report.
3654
February 4
The Oriental Economist.
3655
February 9
Reported Statement by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
3656
February 10
Report of Conditions in Japan during the
month of January, 1939.
3657
February 10
Diplomatic visa report.
3658
February 10
American Church Mission, Kuling, Bombing of.
3659
February 10
China Inland Mission, Kuling, Bombing of.
3660
February 10
American Rights and Interests in China.
3661
February 10
Singer Sewing Machine Company, Property
Losses Sustained by.
3662
February 13
Embargo on Exportation of Goods from
North China:British Representations.
3663
February 13
Japanese Interference with British Interests
at Shanghai.
3664
February 13
British Claims Against the Japanese Govern-
ment for Property Losses in China.
3665
February 13
Bombing of the Peniel Missicnary Home,
Sai Nam, Sam Shui District, Kwantung.
3666
February 13
Chefoo Trade Restrictions & Organization of
Guilds at Chefoo.
3667
February 13
Interference with Chefoo Customs Administra-
tion by the Chefoo Harbor Office.
3668
February 13
Evacuation of Foreign Nationals at Kuling.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
3669
February 13
Tax Discrimination Against British in
Japanese Controlled Area in North China.
3670
February 14
Pan-American Airways.
3671
February 14
Transmitting Memorandum re General
Petroleum Corporation of California.
3672
February 14
Funds Blocked in Japan of American Cotton
Cooperative Association.
3673
February 14
British Claims Against the Japanese Govern-
ment for Property Losses in China.
3674
February 14
Japanese Interference with Foreign Inter-
ests at Tientsin.
3675
February 14
Funds blocked in Japan of Bates Interna-
tional Bag Company.
3676
February 14
Funds Blocked in Japan of Orvis Brothers,
Co.
3677
Februory 14
Funds blocked in Japen of the Ford Motor
Company.
3678
February 14
Press Reaction to the Announcement of the
Ambassndor's leave of absence.
3679
February 14
Japan's Economic Vulnerability.
3680
February 14
Japanese Interference with Forcign Shipping
on tho Yangtze.
3681
Febru ry 14
Japanese Discrimination Against British
Interests nt Tsingtao.
3682
Febru ry 9
Photogrophs.
3683
February 15
Asia Fromotion Board (Koa-In).
3684
February 15
French-uapanese Relations.
3685
February 15
Debates in the Diet on Japan's Foreign
Relations as Affected by Japan's China Policy
3686
February 15
Renarks of Mr. Kawamura, Director of the
Yokohama Specic Bank at Tientsin.
3687
February 18
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3688
February 20
Tax Discrimination egcinst Subsidiary
of British American Toba. , Company, Ltd.,
in Japanese Controlled Area in North China.
3689
February 20
Embargo on Exportation or Sheep & Slink
Wool and Hemp from North China: British
Representations.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
3690
February 20
British Claims Against the Japanese Govern
ment for Property Losses in China.
3691
February 20
Japanese Interference with British Interest:.
and Occupation of British Property in
Shanghai.
3692
February 21
American Property Losses Resultin€ from
Sino-Japanese Conflict, 1937-1939. Robert
F. Fitch, Hangchow
3693
February 21
American Property Losses from Sino-Japanese
Conflict, Chinese Engineering and Developmer
Company, Nanking.
3694
February 21
American Property Losses from Sino-Japanese
Conflict, Werner G. Smith Company, Wanhsien.
3695
February 21
American Property Losses from Sino-Japanese
Conflict, C. Yates McDaniel, Nanking.
3696
February 21
Request of allotment to erect partition
in Room 17 Chancellery Premises.
3697
February 21
Sale of Scrap Material.
3698
February 21
Completion of Work of Transfer of Switch-
Board and Alterations in Room 205.
3699
February 23
Appointment of Japanese Ship Inspectors
under Panama Canal Regulations.
3700
February 21
Chinese Eastern Railway Pensions.
3701
February 23
Japanese Interference with Chinese Customs
at Canton.
3702
February 23
Acknowledgment of letter sent by Mr. H.
Kubo to the President and Secretary of
State.
3803
Februnry 24
Pan-American Airways.
3704
February 24
Japanese Interference with British News-
papers published in North China.
3705
February 24
Protection of Foreign Property in China and
Reservation of Rights: British Representa-
tions.
3706
February 25
Diplomatic visa report.
3707
February 25
Chefoo Trade Restrictions.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
No.
Date
Subject
3708
February 27
Hainan Island.
3709
February 27
Reported Japenese-German-Italo Conversa-
tions Concerning Strengthening of Anti-
Comintern Pact.
3710
February 28
Foreign Aviation in China: British Repre-
sentations.
3711
February 27
Possible preferential treatment of German
and Italian interests in China.
3712
February 28
Forwardirg of Oriental Economist.
3712
February 28
Death of Ambassador Saito.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
Telegrams sent to the Department
during February 1939
NO.
Date
Subject
63
Feb. 1, 5 p.m.
Statement of Foreign Minister re
internaticnal conference to discuss
situaticn in China.
64
Feb. 4, 10 a.m.
Visa for Chinese servant of
Brazilian Ambassador.
65
Feb. 6, 4 p.m.
Japanese reply to our note of December 31
concerning Anerican rights and interests
in China.
66
Feb. 6, 5 p.m.
Chefoo Harbor Office.
67
Feb. 6, 6 p.m.
Restriction on movement of cargo
on the Yangtze.
68
Feb. 6, 7 p.m.
Withdrawal of Auericans at Kuling.
69
Feb. 6, 8 p.m.
Jacanese interference with foreign
interests at Tientsin.
70
Feb. 6, 9 p.m.
Import and export restrictions, Chefoo.
71
Fab. 8, 11 a.m.
Japanese gold shipments.
72
Feb. 8, 3 p.m.
Chinese foreign indebtedness.
73
Feb. 8, 4 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan.
74
Feb. 8, 5 p.m.
"
75
Feb. 8, 6 p.m.
"
76
Feb. 8, 7 p.m.
"
"
77
Feb. 8, 8 p.m.
"
1"
78
Feb. 8, 10 p.m. Requisttions.
79
Feb. 9, 9 a.m.
Germany-Italy-Japun.
80
Fob. 9, 1 p.m.
Polish-Jupanese relations.
81
Feb. 9, 3 p.m.
Economic studies of Japan.
82
Feb. 9, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
British and American attitudes.
83
Feb. 10, 5 p.m. Japanese occupation of Hainan Ialand.
84
Feb. 10, 7 p.m. Navigation on the Yangtze.
85
Feb. 13, 2 p.m. Pan American Airways.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No. Date
Subject
86
Feb. 13, 4 p.m. Withdrawal of foreigners at Kuling.
87
Feb. 13, 5 p.m.
Andersen Meyer property, Kiukiang.
88
Feb. 14, noon
Japanese occupation of Hainan.
89
Feb. 14, 10 p.m. Germany-Italy-Japan.
90
Feb. 15, 10 a.m. Memorial services for Pope Pius XI.
91
Feb. 15, 1 p.m. Radio interference station WDD.
92
Feb. 15, 2 p.m. Sale of American ships to Japanese.
93
Feb. 17, 1l a.m. Embassy telephone operator.
94
Feb. 17, 4 p.m. Japanese gold shipments.
95
Feb. 17, 7 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Hainan.
96
Feb. 17, 8 p.m.
Canton maritime customs.
97
Feb. 18, 4 p.m.
Navigation on the Yangtze.
98
Feb. 20, 5 p.m.
Canton maritime customs.
99
Feb. 20, 6 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Hainan.
100
Feb. 20, 7 p.m.
Economic sanctions against Japan.
1ot
Feb. 20, 9 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan.
102
Feb. 21, 5 p.m.
Visit to Japan of U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
103
Feb. 21, 7 p.m.
Press comment on discussions in the
United States regarding sale of
military planes, naval expansion, etc.
104
Feb.21, 8 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan.
Feb. 22, 9 a.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan.
105
Feb. 23, 6 p.m.
Japanese demands concerning Shanghai
Municipal Council.
106
Feb. 23, 7 p.m.
Japanese bombing near Hong Kong.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
107
Feb. 24, 1 p.m. Leave of absence, Mr. Crocker.
108
Feb. 25, 7 p.m.
Morishima's statement regarding
terrorism in International Settlement,
Shanghai.
109
Feb. 25, 8 p.m.
Press comment on fortification of Guam.
110
Feb. 26, noon
Situation at Kuling.
111
Feb. 27, 2 p.m.
Shanghai Municipal Council.
112
Feb. 28, noon
Death of former Ambassador Saito.
113
Feb. 28, 6 p.m. Death of former Ambassador Saito.
114
Feb. 28, 7 p.m. Andersen Meyer and Company.
一

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.89)
F.W. 894.00P.R.
File No.
8§4.00 P.R./ 136
Notioo ...
Pages 13 -18 of Report - on 741.94/ 249
Pages 19 -23 of Report -on 793.94/ 14985

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Concr. Jnb
May 5, 1939.
Tokyo's monthly report for March 1939.
Pages 1-19 report American-Japanese rela-
tions and British-Japanese relations, largely
being a recital of representations made to the
Foreign Office by American and British Ambas-
sadors. All of the information contained in
these pages has been received previously in
the Department in despatch or telegraph form.
Pages 19-27 deal with Japan's relations
with Ohina, France, and other countries.
These pages summarize information which had
already reached the Department through other
channels.
The remainder of the despatch deals with
Japan's internal conditions and does not con-
tain fresh significant information.
Thi monthly report of the Embassy at
Tokyo is evidently not supplied to the follow-
ing offices: Consulate General at Tokyo and
Consulates at Yokohama, Nagoya, Nagasaki, and
Taihoku. Without risking sending the report
in the open mail copies could be delivered to
the first three consular offices named and it
would probably be safe enough to send copies
to the Consulates at Nagasaki and Taihoku in
"envelock" envelopes. In view of the great
difficulty in obtaining through the press in
Japan  accurate information with regard to/
developments

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
developments in Japan's external and internal
situation, I think this report should be made
available to as many American Foreign Service
officers in Japan as possible. With this re-
port to keep the officers au courant, the of-
ficers at the posts mentioned above might at
times be able to supply the Embassy with
supplementary information.
894.00 P.R./136
FE: Sa1tabury: HES

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPARTMENT
AMERICAN EMBASSY
ONI MID
Tokyo, April 12,
UIVISION OF
No. 3826.
m
SUBJBCT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF MARCH, 1939.
Cohy n FE.
17
5
LAR EASTENN A
The Honorable
fre
2
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.00 P.R./136
C
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
i/ of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the month
of March, 1939.
Respectfully yours,
OF STATE
Joseph C. Grew.
800
JE:C
Enclostre:
1/ Roport No. 150.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
n
1n
Moscow
n
Chungking
3
" Consulate General, Shanghai
n
Mukden
n
n
Harbin
n
e
Seaûl
" Consulate, Dairen
F/FG
Kobe
n
Osaka
" Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.
In quintuplicate to the Departmemt.
One eopry retamianl fo ml
11
7Rq.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 150.
REFORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF MARCH, 1939.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
ANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNI1ED STATES.
(a) North China Trade Restrictions...........
.1,2,3,4
(b) Foreign Property in Tientsin..
.4,5
(c) Bombing by Japanese Planes of American
Property in China.
.5,6,7.ε
(a) The Return of the Remains of late Ambassador
to the United States, Mr. Hiroshi Saito......8,9
(e) Further Representations made by the Embassy
to the Japanes3 Government during the month..10,11
(f) General Relations.
.11,12
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
(1) Anglo-Chinese Agreement to Establish
a Chirese Currency Stabilization Fund.....12,13,14,
(2) North China Trade Restrictions.......
.16
(3) Japanese Interference with British
Interests in Tientsin.
.16,17,18
(4) General Relations.
.18,19
(b) China.
(1) International Settlement at Shanghai......19,20
(2) Military Operations...
..20,21
(3) General Relations.
.22,23
(c) France.
..23,24
(d) Soviet Russia.
.24,25
(e) Italy
(1) Japan-Italo Cultural Agreement............25,26
(f) General International Relations.
(1) Spratley Islands......
.26
(2) Statement by the Prime Minister in
Regard to Japan's General Foreign
Policy.....
.27

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITICNS.
(a) The Diet.......
..27,28,29
(b) Th: Navy..
.29,30
(c) The Army...
.30
(a) Important Statements by Covernment Officials
1. Three-year Program for Production and
Expansion in Japan, "anchukuo" and
China..
.31
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLITION
(a) The Budgct for the Fiscal Year 1939-40..........31,32
(b) Legislative Bills..
.32,33
V. GOVERNNMENT FINANCE.
.33
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC ND FINANCI.L CONDITICNS..
.34,35
VII. ACTIVITIES CF AERIC.N CCIMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII.ACTIVITIES CF FOREIIN COM ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR
Nothing to report.
X. NISCELLANTOUS.
Nothin to report.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STAT.
(a) North China Trede Restrictions
In a telegran dated Karch  the Department, referring
711.94
reports received from the American mbassy at Peiping and the Amei
can Consulates in North China in rognd to trade rostrictions j.
North China, instructed the Aml esr to approach the Foreign of-
fice in such a manner as he light deem appropriate and to make
representations concerning the drastic trade restrictions, the im-
position of which the Government of the United States was informed
was contemplated by the Japanese sponsored régime in North China.*
It will be recalled that the position of the United States
in regard to Japanese interference with and restriction of American
rights and interests in China on general as contrasted to specific
lines had been comprehensively dealt with in the United States Gov.
ernment's notes to the Japanese Governmert of October 6 and Decem.
ber 30, 1938, in which there were laid down the United States Gover
ment's reservations with recard to such rights and interests. It
was felt that there were arguments against initiating a new cycle
of formal reservations, refusal by the Japanese authorities and re-
newed laying down of reservations with the attendant undesirable
and unprofitable ncrimony and irritation and that more might be
gained by making frequent informal approuches. With this thought in
mind the desirability of presenting informally to the Foreign
Office an aide mémoire on the subject of trade restrictions and
exchange control in North China was considered. However, in view
of the fact that the British and French mbassadors had been in-
structed by their respective governments to make formal representa-
tions, and in view of the question raised by the Department of the
desirability
* Embassy's telegram No. 52, March 4, 1939.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
desirability of concerted action wherever practicable, it was decid.
ed to present a formal note to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.*
In tiis note, presonted on March ll,** the renewed atten
tion of the Foreign Minister wes invited to the Ambassador's not
to the Forsign Office of February 6, 1939, rulating to the impositic
by the Japanese naval authorities at Chefoo of various restrictions
on the shipment of merchandise, to the Embassy's informal memorendun.
left with tho Foreign Office on Februnry 6 relnting to unwarranted
restrictions placed upon American personnl and business interests
in Tientsin, and to the nide mémoire which wns left at the Foreign
Office on March 8 in which the hope was expressed that the necessary
steps would immediately be taken to alleviate the continued im-
position of the rostrictions at Tientsin. It was then st ted
thnt the Govurnment of the United States regarded the new drastic
trade restrictions, including the requircment of export permits
and controlled money exchange, imposed by the Japanese sponsored
régime in North China with the support of Japanese authorities,
as the most comprehensive discriminction against the United States
and other foreign countries and in favor of Japan which has yet
been established in North China by Japanese authorities and as a
virtual nullification in that area of the principle of equal
opportunity o far as imports end exports are concerned. The cf-
fect of these mensures in impairing the trade with North China of
foreign countries other than Japan while at the same time bene-
fitting the t rade of Japan to the prejudice of other foreign inter-
ests, was set forth, end it was stated in view of theso considera-
tions that added force was given to the objections which the Ameri-
can Government has repeatedly advanced to the institution of trade
or
Embassy's telegram No. 123, March 8; Department's telegram
No. 54 of March 9, and Embassy's telegram No. 131, March 11,1959
**
Embassy's despatch Nc. 3753, March 15, 1939.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
or exchange control by Japanese nuthorities in Ncrth China, the
basis of such objection being thnt all trade with North China would
thereby become subject to Japanese discretion, and thnt equality
of oppcrtunicy would no longer be possible. The note was conclude
with tho statement that the Governneit of the United States in fact
regarded with deep concern the incrensing evidence of interference
in Japenese-occupied creas in China with the normal flow of trade
between the United States and those creas, and with an expression
of hope that the Japanese authorities would not countenance these
measures but on the contrary would remove existing restrictions
which tend to prevent between the United States cnd North Chinn the
same normol and uninterrupted flow of trade which so far as action
by the Unitcd States Government is concerned, prevailed between the
United States and Japan.
On Morch 15 publicity was given in the press to the receipt
by the Foreign Minister of the notes from the United States, Great
Brit in nd France; lthough their texts were not published their
Ronerol purport wes announced.
The notes were described as being
protests ngoinst the new measures taken by the "Provisicnal Govern-
ment of China" to control foreign trade in North China,the three
powers meintaining that the steps taken hindered frecdom of trade
which was guaranteed in treaties with China nd that the steps
viol:ted the principle of equ 1 opportunity. According to the news-
puper reports the stand of the Jep nese Government was, however, in
contradistinction to the position t ken by the three Governments,
that exchonge control was merely a process for customs clearance
hich would not restrict the freedom of trade in any way, that as
t applied equally to trede with Jrpan no bosis was seen for the
chorge thet it was discriminatory and that, moreover, the control
w's boing imposed by the Peiping régime, not by the Japonese Govern-
ment

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
~t
nt, and therefore the represent:tions were misdirected. In
these same reports it was intimated thet the Japenese Government
after attempting to clarify the misunderstanding undor which it
vas bolieved that the fevcign governierts concerned were sufforing.
weula rejoct the representations. r v s later reported that the
Foreign Minister had replied to interrullations in the Diet that
"tho Japanese Government rocognized the action taken by the
'Provisionel Government' us being unavoid-ble and was supportings
it" but that nothing hod yet beon decided as to whether the Jepan-
ese Government would answer the protests or if it did how its
answer should be termed.
(b) Foreign Property at Ticntsin.
It will be recalled that on Februcry 6 an informal memorandum
was presented by the Americen Embassy to the Japanese Foreign Crfice
relating to cortain irksome and seemingly unwarranted restrictions
pi-ccd upon Americ'n personnl nd business interests in Tientsin
ny the Japonesc military authorities in that city.* In conformity
witr the Department's instructions** this matter was ag"in brought
to the attention of the Foreigi Office in an ide memoire*** present-
 on March e. In this ide mémoire, fter reference wes made to
the previous representations, it ws pointed out thit the United
St tes Government had received information thet there had been
ittle or no relaxation in the restrictions referred to and that
cosides it was understood that further restrictions were to be im-
nosed effective March 1o which would undoubtedly have a most un-
vorable erfect upon American personcl nd business interests in
Fientsin. The hope of the United States Government was then ex-
ressed that the Japaneso authorities would immediatcly take the
necessory
*
Embassy's Monthly Political Report for Febru ry, 1939.
**
Department's telug-em No. 49, Februory 27, 1939.
Embassy's telcgram No. 1f4, N rch , despatch No. 3755,
March 15, 1939.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
3.
hecessary steps to alleviate the restrictions nlready imposed end
to prevent the further restrictions that were contemplated.
(c) Bombing by Japnnese Planes of Americnn Property
in Ch:nn.
During the month of March, the Embassy made a series of rep-
resentations to the Foreign Office in regard to instances which
had occurred recently of bombing by Japanese airplanes of American
property in China. In accoreance with the Department's standing
instructions, separate notes were presented concerning each in-
stance of such an attack on American property and in this con-
nection it is noted that by the end of the month 28 representations
had been made by the Embassy since the beginning of the year.
On March 17 che Department, in a telegraphic instruction* re-
ferring to the persistent and increasingly frequent instances of
bombing during Japanese air raids of property of American missions
and commercial firms, directed that these instances of continual
disregard by Japanese military forces of American rights and proper-
y be made the basis of a formal and emphatic protest to the Japan-
ese Foreign Office.
. Penaing the presentation of this formal note,
the text and timing of which were then under consideration by the
epartment, on March 24, Mr. Dooman on presenting the mbassy's rep-
resentations at the Foreign Office concerning the separate cases of
ombing informed the Director of the American Bureau, Mr. Yoshizawa
hat** instances of bombing of American properties had run up to a
fantastic number; that there had been cases of such properties being
repeatedly bombed, and that, in these circumstances, the belief was
growing
Department's telegram No. 64, March 17, 1939.
*rbassy's telegram No. 147, March 24, 1939.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
.€-
growing that there was beine carrie? out a deliberate attempt
on the part of the Japanese forces to destroy merican cultural and
philenthropic entererises in China. Mr. Yoshizawa warmly denied.
that there was any such objective in view, but he said that never-
theless bombing incidents were occurring with to grent frequency
to permit of eny complacency on the part of the Japanese Foreign
Office. He added that an investigation was being made to determine
the causes of such attacks on Americen properties in the thought tha+
if the causes were known, effective preventive measures could then
be tnken.
On March 30 the Ambassador colled on the Ministur for Foreign
Affnirs and presented the formal noto in regard to the bombing of
American property. Following the presontation of the United States
Government's emphatic and formal protost gainst the continued dis-
rogord by the Japanese military forces of American lives nnd proper-
ty in Chine, the attention of the Japanese Government was invited
in the note to the ever lengthening list of instances in which, as
 result of cir raids by the Jepanese forces, Americon property,
clthough clearly morked and the location thereof previously reported
with accompenying maps to the Japanese authorities, hed been dum-
ged and in some cises destroyed.
After referring to previous
i presentations of the United States Government which had set forth
the precautionary measures taken, although there existed no oblige-
ion to do so, on the part of Americn nation ls towards s feguurdin
fmericen lives and interests in Chin, it was pointed out that there
ind occurred no less than 135 inst nces of reri:1 attacks by Jupan-
se forces endangering American livos and resulting in damge to
moricon property which had been brought by this Embassy to the
ttention of the Jap nese Govornment. It wos also stated that an
'st nding example of the instances to which the United States
Governmont

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
Government referred wns the recent bombing of the American Lutheren
Mission at Tungpeh which restlted in the death or grave injury to
cortain mambers of the Nyhus family. Thereafter there was submitte
n detailed list of the cases of bombing. The Foreign Minister wns
urgently requested to "take steps to the and that the Japanese Gov-
ernment promptly issue to its appropriate nuthorities in China
such instructions as may be required to prevent any further re-
currence of the bombing of Americnn properties", and the note
concluded with the statement that the Government cnd people of
the United States &re becoming incrensingly perturbed by these
acts on the part of the Japnnese military authorities, and that the
weight which they can ttnch to assurances of the Japanese Govern-
ment in this respect wns necessarily determined to the extent by
which Japanese forces in the field respect or fail to respect
those assurances.*
On prosenting this note the Ambassedor or-lly informed the
Forcign Ministor thet the American Covernment would carefully watch
future developments in the cxpoctation that the Japanese Government
by taking effoctive measures would relieve the American Government
of the obligation to publish the note. The Foreign Minister expresse
deep regretat the report which the American Ambassador had laid
before him and said that he would immediately take up the matter
ith the appropriate cuthorities.
It is significant in connection with the cases of bombing
of American property that with but one or two exceptions, no
reports of the incidents have appeared in the press nor, corres-
ondingly, has any publicity been given to the protests of the
American Government concerning the bombings nor any allusion made
to
Frbassy's telegram No. 15o, March 30, and despatch No. 3802,
Apri1 5, 1939.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
to such protests. On the contrary, the Japanese public has been
persuaded to assume by periodical statements emanating from the
military authorities thet the behaviour in these respects of the
Japanase fcr es in China had been exemplary, and that full respec;
and protection has been given foreign lives and property, a state-
ment to this end having even been mrde in the Diet by the Ministe
for War. It was, therefore, to be expected that the receipt and
purport of the present note has not been made public and, in fact,
no mention of it whatever has appeared in the press.
(a) The Return of the Remains of late Ambassador to
the United States, Mr. Hiroshi Saito.
The President's offer to the Japanese Government to transport
to Japan the remains of the late Ambassador to the United States,
Hiroshi Saito, on a United States cruiser was conveyed by Mr.
Grew to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs on March 2 and the
offer was promptly accepted with an expression of deep appreciation
by the Japanese Government. It was later announced thet the U.S.S.
ASToRIA had been assigned to bring the ashes of mbassador Saito
to Japan and that it would errive at Yokohama on pril 17 and remai:
in that port until April 26. During the month a program was arrang?
for the ceremonial reception of the ashes and for the official funer
al services in Tokyo on Anril l8 and also for the subsequent enter-
tainment of the officers and crew of the ASTORIA while staying in
Japan.
The offer of the United States Government to return the ashes
of former Ambassador Saito in an American warship was heralded
throughout Japan. ditorials appeared in all the metropolitan
papers

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
papers and referred to the attitude of the American Government ir
emphatic terms of appreciation and gratification for "the grea
feeling of good will shown by the United States President towards
Japan", and c itinued reference was made by the press throughout.
the month to the matter and to the plans for the ceremoiy of the
funeral and the functions to be staged during the stay of the
ASTORIA in Japan. Typical of the comments in the editorials of
the press regarding the matter were statements to the effect that
the unique honor bestcwed to a Japanese public figure who had
already retired from active service should not be considered in
any way reflective of American foreign policy but as transcending
that policy and was to be construed as a manifestation of interna-
tional friendship. Moreover, hope was exnressed that this display 1
good will on the part of the American Government would provide an.
opportunity for reflection on the relations between the two countrie
and for the settlement of the friction disturbing American-Japanese
relations which was largely caused by differences that had"arisen
out of emotion".
The President's action was also discussed in appreciative
terms in the Diet.
The Foreign Minister in reply to en inter-
pellation made by a member of the Diet in regard to the Govern-
ment's position concerning this act of good will by America stated
in effect that, although various difficulties existed between the
United States and Japan over the China Incident, he fult "that the
friendly gesture made at such a time by the United States showed
that the roots of American-Japanese friendship are fortunately
uite deep and that the Japanese Government earnestly hoped that
future relations between the two countries could be maintnined in
the same friendly spirit".*
(e)
Embassy's despatch No. 3751, March 14, 1939.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
-10
(e) Further Reprosentations m de by the Eabassy to th.
the Japanese Government during the month.
In conformity with the Department's instructions, c inbussy
took up in a momorandum presented to the Foreign Office on Marel 4
the question of discriminatory texation of Standard Vacum: Cil Ccn-
pany products by the municipal nuth rities at Kaifeng, Honou, Chini.
The memorandum set forth inform tion received by the Embissy in re-
gard to unwarranted taxes imposed by the authorities refurred to,
protested such action, and requested thnt steps be taken to prevent
further interference with the sales orgonizations of the Standard
Vacuum Oil Company and the Texas Company (China Ltd.) in the dis-
tricts where such interference had occurred.*
With reference to the telegraphic report from the Americon
Consulate Generrl at Shanghai in regard to Japanese occupation
of property of the University of Shanghai and suggesting that
representations be made to the Japanes, Government concerning the
reservation made by the local Japanese authar itics at Sharghni to
the effect that they would rostrict the work of repairs of the
property or inspect the premises at any time, the Embassy: in
conformity with the Department's instructions, brought the matter
of this reservetion to the attention of the Japunese Foreign Office
on March 14, when Mr. Dooman informed the Director of the American
ureau that the United States Government considcrs the reservation
as entirely unncceptable ind expressed tne hope that instructions
would be sent at once to the Japanose uthorities in hanghai to
withdraw it. Mr. Yoshizawa replied that he had no knowledge that any
reservation had been made in regard to the repair of the buildings
f the University of Shanghai ond stated that the authorities at
Changhai would be consulted witn a vicw to the withdrawal of the
oservetion.
Embassy's telegram No.l46,March 21, ond Embassy's despatch
No. 3780, M-rch 26, 1939.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
During the month of March the Embassy mede representetions tc
the Foreign Office concerning American property losses in China
in the following instances:*
Japanese bombing of property of American Catholic
Mission and wounding of Father Robert Patrick Kennelly,
Loting, Kwangtung.
Japanese bombing of property of Covenant Missionary
Society at Kingmen, Hupeh.
Claim of Standard Vacuum Oil Company for damage to
property at Hoihow, Hainan Island, resulting from
Japanese bombing on September 10, 1938.
Japanese bombing of property of American Church Mission,
Ichang, Hupeh, Morch 8, 1939.
Japanese bombing of Standard-Vacuum Oil Company property at
Nanchang, Kiangsi.
Japanese bombing of property of American Church Mission,
Ichang, Hupeh.
Japanese bombing of property of Southern Baptist Mission
Hospital at Chengchow, Honan.
Japanese bombing of property of Ccvenant Missionary Society,
Siangyang, Hupeh.
Japanese bombing of property Of Luthern United Mission,
Fancheng, Hupeh.
Japanese bombing of property of American Presbyterian Mission,
North, Hengyang, Hunan.
(f) General Relations.
Inspired in part by the view thrt there was now little likelihoo
of the United States employing economic sanctions against Japan, in
part by a relaxation of concern and apprehension over the reports
of American navol plans in connection with the Western Pacific
Ocean (Embassy's Political Report for the Month of Februpry, 1939)
but primarily by the action of the United States in returning the
ashes
These representations were reported in the following despatches
which are listed in the same order as the above representations:
Despatches Nos. 3732, March 9; 3740, March 13; 3743, March 13;
3748, March 14; 3750, March 14; 3767, March 22; 3774, March 22;
3775, March 27, 3776, March 27; 3777, March 27, 1939.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
12-
ashes of Ambassador Saito in a United States warship, a general
feeling of friendliness, both private and official, on the part
of Japan towards the United States was manifested. Moreover, in
reports in tre press it was intimated that this feeling might have
significant political consequences. It was held that this attitide
might be translated into a plan for the course of Japenese foreign
relations, and in this connection expressions were heard of the
opinion that the Japanese Government had now become oriented towards
better relations with the United States and that recent developments
have caused Japan to review its former policy in dealing with
the United States. In explanation of this sentiment it was stated
that until comparatively recently the American Far Eastern policy
was believed to be practically a duplicate of the British Oriental
policy, the general impression prevailing in Japan that the United
States was c unit of the so-called democratic group which includes
Great Britain and Fr nce, but that now with the latest display of
unusual courtesy by the United States an opportunity may have pre-
sented itself in the midst of the increased tension "between the
Berlin-Rome axis and the British-French-Soviet bloc" to restore
cordial diplometic relations with the United States, settle thd
problems outstanding between the two countries, end also improve
trade relations between the two countries.
1I. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
741.90
(1) Anglo-Chinese Agreement to Establish a
Chinese Currency Stabilization Fund.
On March 8* the British Ambassador called on the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affnirs end informed him of the agreement that would be
announced
Embassy's telegrem No. 122, March 8, 1939.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
13.
mounced batween the British Government and the Chinese National
Government for the ostablishment of & Chinese currency stabilizatio
fund, leaving with him a memorandum outlining the plan for the
ostablishment of the fund. At the snme time Sir Robert Craigie
informed the Vice Minister that the agreement was not to he re-
garded as a measure to support the Chiang Kai-shek régime but
purely and simply as an action in defense of British interusts in
China.
In substance, the agreement provided that the Chinese Govern-
ment Banks operating in China form & currency stabilization fund
of 10 million pounds to be usod for exchange operations to prevent
undue fluctuation in the value of the Chinese national dollar. The
two British banks operating in China, the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation, and the Chartored Bank, were to subscribe five
million pounds and the Bank of China and Bank of Communications
were to subscribe the other five million pounds. The fund was to
be maneged by a committee in Hong Kong, the agreement to remain
in force for a year, the British Government undertaking to reim-
burse the British banks for any losses that might be incurred by
them.
In a later conversation on the same day between Sir Robert
nd Vice Minister Sawada, the latter stated that the Japanese
Government questioned, in regard to the agreement, whether there
as any immedinte danger of a collapse of the Chinese currency which
would necessitate the establishment of the fund, and that, becnuse of
the lerge amount of the fund, the Japanese Government entertained
coubt whether it was to be used solely for mnintaining the stability
of the currency. In reply to theso questions, Sir Robert informed
r. Sawada that no such undertaking would have been entered upon.
f there had not been a real need for it, and that the fund was
only

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
only to be used for the purpose stated, its amount having to be su-
ficiently large to obviate all possibility of speculative attack.
Full publicity was given to the agreement and to the conver-
sation between the British Ambassador and the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs concerning the British intentions in establishing
the fund.
The matter was taken up in the Diet and in reply to inter-
pellations the Foreign Minister is reported to have stated in effect
that the fund would indirectly operate to be helpful to the Chiang
Kai-shek régime and would, therefore, have substantial effect on
Anglo-Japanese relations, but that at the same time inasmuch as it
could admittedly be, as Great Britain had assured Japan, for the
protection of Britain's own rights and interests, Japan must
watch how the fund would work out and see whether the establishment
of such a fund warranted a protest.
In direct variance with the contentions of the Foreign Minister
as expressed in his message on March Eth through the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs to the British Ambassador, that there did not
appear to be any immediate danger of a collapse of the Chinese
currency, a spokesman of the Foreign Office declared that he believed
that the Chinese national currency stood on the verge of complete
collapse. This fact, he said, undoubtedly accounted for the new
British scheme, as the British Government had made it known that
the stabilization of the Chinese national currency would be a great
help to British enterprise and trade in China. He asserted, however,
that England should realize the "trend of affairs in East Asia" and
cather than support the old Chinese national currency should help
'stabilize the new currency" - presumably that of North China.
He

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
then concluded that the real motive berind the British aer was
to give financial and economic aid to the Chieng Kai-shek régime
in order to restore the status quo ente of Enst Asia but that sucn
a policy was irimical to the"trend of affairs".
Editorial comment corcerning the Anglo-Chinese agroorens sppver-
ed in a series of articles in all the newspapers and a strong advers?
reaction, manifested from the start, soon developed into an openlv
hostile and antagonistic attitude toward Great Britain over the
agreement. Following the line taken in the Foreign Office's
statement, there was expressed a general refusal to believe the
British assuranccs that the measure was to be of a purely economic
character designed to protect British interests, and it was held
thet the undertaking was a political one for the principal purpose
of supporting the Chinese Government. It was further charged that
there was no doubt that it was aimed at bringing economic pressure
to bear on Japan.
The stand was taken that the Government should
desist from a "wait and see" policy and not put up with "Great
Britain's malicious intont towerds Japan".
Amidst this storm of protest over the Anglo-Chinese agreement
there nevertheless inconspicuously appeared in editorials of
certain sections of the press, particularly those of a financial and
commercial nature, comments to the effect that Japan might do well not
to combat the British move but itself to utilize the present stabil-
ized currency for its own ends. It was pointed out that Japan would
experience difficulties in trying to cstablish un entirely new cur-
rency system in Central and South China, thit the present currency
had been maintained at its current value of eight pence because of
the support given it by the British and American banks, and that in
tilizing the currency Japan could benefit its industry and trade with
heareas mentioned.
2

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-16..
2. North China Trade Restrictions.
On March 10, under instructions from his Government, the
British Ambassador mado representations in a formal note* to the
Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the trade restrictions in
North China. In this note the British Ambassador referred to the
numerous occasions on which he had brought to the attention of tho
Foreign Minister the serious difficulties caused to British trade
in North China by the acticns of the Japanese authorities there,
and he stressed that the measures taken by these authorities were
not in accord with the assurances given by the Japanese Government
that the interests of third party nationals in China would be res-
pected by Japan. It was then pointed out that the "Chinese Provision
al Authorities at Peiping" had proposed new measures for the general
control of trade and foreign exchange transactions and that their
general effect would be that British trade and banking in North
China could only be carricd on with the sanction of the local auth-
orities. It was then stated th't the fact of these measures being
taken by the nuthorities in North China with the apparent approvel
and support of the Japanese Government conflicted with the assur-
ances frequently given by the Japenese Government that the treaty
rights of third Powers in Chinn would be respected.
The note concluded with a st tement that the British Govern-
nent reserved the right to toko ony action that might seem approprint
in order to protect the British commercial intcrosts concerned.
(3) Japanese Interference with British Interests
in Tientsin.
On NMerch 3, under instructins from his Govornment, the British
Ambossador addressed  long note to the Minister for Foreien Affairs
again
Embassy's despatchos Nos. 3753, Norch 15, and 3757, March 16, 1939.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
again referring to the restrictions initiated by the Japanest
military authorities which affected the foreign community at
Tientsin and bringing to the attention of the Japanese Govern-
ment what were claimed to be further aggressive measures by the
local Japanese military authorities "clonrly directed aguinst
the British Concession".* A contrast was drawn in the note of
the attitude and actions of th British authorities in Tientsin
with "those of the Japenese authorities. It was asserted that
the British authorities on the one hand had taken all precautions
to curb anti-Jnpanese activities in the Concession end that as
the result thoreof no nti-Japaneso outrages had occurred there
since the beginning of the hostilities in China, while on the
other hand the Japanese authorities had not only not tiken into
account the effective efforts made by the British authorities to
doal with the situ tion in thc Concessions but had adopted a number
of aggressive acts, which were onumerated in the note, against
the Concession for the justificntion of which no evidence, al-
though rupeatedly requested, hed been given. It was then stated
that this situntion as duseribed gave the appearonce thot the
locel Jap nese cuthoritius were seoking to build up a caso
ngainst the Concussior which was, in fact, without ny foundation,
nd the hope was uxpressed that instructions be issued by the
Japenese Government to unsure a moderetion of the local Japanese
attitude in order thet the problems in regerd to the Concession might
be investigated and settled in an atmosphere more in keeping with
the relations between two friendly Powers".
The following further represuntations were made by the
British
*
Embessy's despatch No. 3755, March 15, 1939.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
British Embassy during the month of March:*
British claim against Japaneso Government for property
losses in China.
Japanese interference with British interests at Shanghai.
British representations regarding losses of British
property resulting from Sino-Japanese hostilirjas,
1937-1939.
Tax discrimination against subsidiary of British-
American Tobacco Company, Ltd. in Japanese controlled
area in North China.
Kidnapping of Mr. Dyott, Chairman of the British Chamber
of Commerce, Tientsin, China.
Japanese interference with British London Mission,
Tsangchow, North China.
Japanese interference with Mossrs. Butterfield and Swire,
Tientsin, China.
Japanese import prohibition on cigarettes at Hankow.
Japanese discriminaticn against British rights an: inter
ests in Peking-Mukden Railway.
(4) General Relations.
The feeling of bitter animosity in Japan towards Great
Britain which had flared up over the announced British plan to
stabilize the Chinese national currency generally characterized
the Anglo-Japanese relations throughout the month of March. The
attitude assuned was that, regardless of any other considerations
which might be involved in its actions, England was trying to
assist in one way or another the Chiang Kai-shek régime which
Japan was determined to destroy and therefore was taking a positio
unfriendly to Japan; and there were brought forth proposuls in
th.
* These representations were reported in the following despatches
which are listed in the same order as the above representaticns:
Nos. 3746, March 14; 3747, March 14; 3752, March 14; 3761,
March 16; 3781, March 28; 3782, March 28, 3783, March 28; 3789,
March 29, 3791, March 30, 1939.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
-1.9-
Diet and in the press that the time was now ripo for Japan to
initiate retaliatory measures agninst that country. To this
end suggestions were heard that Japan should revise its policy
of "protecting British interests and rights and China" and shouid
even go so far as to insist that Great Britain abandon all its
political interests in China, give up its extraterritoriality and
Yangtze navigation rights and return Hong Kong to China.
(b) China.
1. International Settlemont at Shanghai.
793.94
01
The agitation that was aroused in Japan during February
over terroristic rctivities in Shanghni and over the negotiations
in regard to such activities between the Jnpanese authorities and
the Shanghai Municipal Council subsided in March. With the reports
that an understanding had been reached between the Jnpanese auth-
orities at the beginning of thc month under review, public atten-
tion was turned to other matters. The last editorials appe-ring
in the press concerning the understanding gonerally concluded
with expressions of opinion that there still remained for Japan
the problem of seeing to it thut the agreumont for the policing of
the Settlement and for the control of the conti-Jepanese elements
in Shanghai be cffactively carried out and that the greement
might be only ? temporery expedient and not a fundamental solu-
tion.
Throughout the whole public discussion in Japan of the
situntion at Shanghni the issue that had been rmised betweon
the

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
the Japanese authorities and the Shanghai Municipal Council wa;
only presented, as was to be expected, from the Japanese point
of view and no reference was made to the contontions of the
Municipal council authorities as regrds the extent to which
the lawlessness in the districts outside of the Settlement hnd
contributed to the acts of terrorism within its confines.
2. Military Operations.
The first mejor militory operations which had occurred
since the termination of the Japanese campaigns gainst
Hankow and Canton last fall were begun in the middle of the
month in large scale drives on Nancheng and Nuning in northern
Kiangsi Province. On the Siao River front the Japanese drive
opened on March 20 against Wuning. Two days later the Japancse
drive southward elong the reilway to Nanchong was storted.
On
March 27 the Japanese forces occupied Nanchang and on March 29
Nuning was also reported to have been captured. It was under-
stood that in both these campnigns, particularly that on Wuning
where the Chinese had put up a very strong resistance, heavy
fighting between the contending forces took place.
During the last few dnys of the month it was also reported
that the Japanese hnd launched new military operations in the Cont
area in South China and thet Kongmoon on the west bank of the
Pearl River delta was occupied on March 30.
In the earlior part of the month a Japaneso campaign to
the north nd northwest of Hankow towards the Han River was under-
taken and it was reported th:t by the middle of the month Japanuse
forces had captured Kiukow end Anlu on the Han River thus extendir
a salient to within less than loo miles from Ichang to the west
and

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
and less than 80 miles from Siangyang to the north. Roports
wero also received thot fighting occurred betwoen Japanese uni.
and guerrilla bends in various other sections of Japanese-occupied
arens of China. In Shansi the Jnpanese luunched a campaign tc
the northwest of Taiyuan and captured Tsinglo; in Hopei the
campaign nginst tho guerrillas in the central part of that
Province was understood to have been completed and the Chinese
guerrilla leaders believed to have fled to Shensi; in Kiangsu,
Hwaiyan on the Grand Canal nd Haichow at the old mouth of the
Yellow River were captured, while Fowning on the Shehyang River
was also occupied. Bombing by Japanese military and naval
units continued throug'.out the month and raids were made on a
number of centers in Shensi Province, on Lanchov, Kansu Province, on
Chengchow and other towns in north Honan nd along the Chekiang-
Kiangsi railway and on various towns in Kiangsi.
Considerable significance was given to the capture of
Nanchang and Vuning in Japan. It is understood thot the objective
of the campaign was in a largc part to cut the supply route from
west China to the castern provinces of Kiangsi and Chekiang and
that with the fall of Nanchang ot the hend of the Chekiang-
Kiangsi Reilway, which railway extends to Hsioshan on Hongchow
Bay, the Japanese heve effectively disrupted this route. *
From en economic point of view the occupation of Nanchong
was also held to be very valuable inasmuch as the province of
Kiangsi is understood to produco cpproximatcly e0 per cent of
tungsten ore found in Chin. As Chinn produces about 90 per
cent of the world's supply of tungsten Japan is held to have
thereby guined control of this product which forms an essential
alloy in the manufacture of many high-grade metal products.
3.
*Prepared with the essistonce of thc Office of the Military
Attaché.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
-22…
3.
General Reletious.
It was officially announceo on March 10 that th eatablisu-
ment in China of the liaison offices of tho Asia Fromotion scae -
the Governmental bureau set up in Jepan last autumi for tho contlc
of Sino-Japanese relations -- had been a uthorized is fcllows:
the North China Liaison Office at Peiping to be in charge of the
areas under the jurisdiction of the "Provisional Government of
the Republic of China"; the Mongolian Liaison Office at Kalgan
to control the area under the jurisdiction of the "Inner Mon-
golia Federated Committee"; the Central China Liaison Office
at Shanghai to be in charge of the area under the jurisdiction
of the "Reformed Government of China"; the Amoy Liaison Office
at Amoy to have jurisdiction of the Island of Amoy and its
vicinity; and the Tsingtao Branch of the North China Liaisor.
Office at Tsingtao to control the area under the jurisdiction
of the special metropolitan police board of Tsingtao.*
Although no other concrete measures were taken during the
month in regard to Japan's political relations with the Japanese
occupied areas in China nor in regard to the rumored establish-
ment of a central government for those areas, several staterents
were reported to have been made concerning these matters by Gov-
ernment Ministers in reply to interpellations in the Liet.
on
March 1l the War Minister is reported to have said that the
activities of such men as Wang Ching-wei and Wu Pei-fu were
givine rise to an atmosphere favorable to the formation of a
new Central régime and that from this he did not think that the
establishment of a new Government was far off. Referring to the
same question of a new central régime, the Foreign Minister is
reported to have stated in effect that the separate governments
with different systems have beon e stablished in various areas in
China
*Embassy s despatch No. 3786, March 29, 1939.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
3-
China and that Japan "must recognize the local variations in.
these régimes", but that a single central government was neces.
sary to keep contact with the independent local régimes, and tha?
he did not tnink that it would be difficult for the centra! cover!
ment when it is established to maintain control over them.
On another occasion the Foreign Minister, in reply to a
question in the Diet whether it was not desirable for Japan to
act for China in regard to China's foreign affairs until a new
régime was established to teke them over, is reported to have
stated that as Japan's position as the stabilizing force of East
Asia is incontestible it is much to be desired that third Powers
consult Japan with regard to rclctions in China, but that as the
construction of the now order in Enst Asin means the formation
of a confederacy of three nations mutually interdepondent, Japan
enturtains no notion of t king over the ontire foreign relations
of Chine. He further observed that as Japan is the "elder brother'
it would be necessary for Japan to exercise guidance over the
"younger".
(c) France.
On the same date thet the British Ambassedor presented the
British note in regard to the trade restrictions in North China
the French Ambassador made representations under instructions
of his Government concerning the same subject. The French ropre-
sentetions wore along lines similar to those of Grent Britain.
After pointing out the effect that the new mensures would have on
the trode of North China with foreign countries other than Jcpun
in contravention to the rights gained by treaty with Chinn, the
Ambnssador protested the action of the North China authorities
and reserved the right for his Government to teke whatever
mns-
ures it decmed appropriste to protect the interests of its
natiorals

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
ntionals in North China.*
The French Ambassador was called to the Foreign Office or
March 31 and informed that the Japanese Government had place?
Spratley Islands under the jurisdiction of the Government Gon!
of Formosa. It is understood that this notification was given
officially to the French Ambassador for the reason that France
had previously laid claim to these islands. A further discussic
of this action on the part of the Japanese Government is under-
taken below under the section dealing with General Foreign
Relations of Japan.
(d) oviet Russia.
Although negotiations were continued during the month under
review between Japan and Soviet Russia over the Siberian fisher-
ies question, no solution of this problem had been reached by the
end of the month. It was reported in the press that the previous-
ly announced auction to be held at Vladivostok on March 15 by the
Soviet Government of the rights to the fishery grounds in Soviet
Far Eastern Waters, took place on that date as scheduled.
Under
a decision taken by the Japanese Government and Japanese fishing
interests no Japanese attended the auction. However, it was later
learned that the Russian fishery concerns had bought at the auction
the rights for only four lots out of the 29s taken up in past
years by Japanese fishing concerns and from this an optimistic view
was assumed that the door had not been entirely closed to the
eventual amicable settlement of the question. In the meanwhile
it was announced that Japan would continue to press for an agree-
ment with Russia over the fisheries until the last moment before
the
* Embassy's despatch No. 3753, March 15, 1939.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
the season opened in April, but that if the negotiations eventun...
fell through Japan was prepared "to make a firm decision". It
was further reported that five vessels would sail from Hokkaido
on April 10 to engage in free fishing in Kamchatka waters re-
gardless of whether an agreement had been reached before that
date between Japan end the Soviet Union.
(e) Italy.
1. Japan-Italo Cultural Agreement.
Concluding negotietions that had been going on since last
December, on March 23 there was signed at Tokyo between the
Foreign Minister, Mr. Hachiro Arita, and the Italian mbassedor,
Mr. Giacinto Auriti, an agreement for Italo-Japanese cultural
cooperation. The agreement is similar to thet concluded between
Japan and Germany last November. The provisions of the instru-
ment, set forth in a few short articles, are that Japan and Italy
should strive by coll-boration to further their cultural relations
and that they should promote their cultural relations through the
medium of science, art, music, literature, stcge, screen, photo-
graphy, radio, youth movements, sports, otc. The general prin-
ciples, it was concurrently nnounced by the Foreign Office, would
be implemented by the foundntion of cultural institutions and com-
mittoes cnd by the exchange of professors, students, text books,
works of art, films, etc. A st tement concerning the agreement
issued by a spokosman of the Forcign Office was to the effect
that the Japanese Government hnd initiated the negotietions with
Italy with the objective in view of cooperating in cultural under-
standing with those foreign countries which are in friendly rela-
tionship

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
26
tionship with Japan through bi-lateral agreaments and not throuel
the League of Nations. Its importance was also given as further
promoting amicable relations between the two countries under uhe
enti-Comintorn Pact.
(f) General International Relations.
1. Spratley Islands.
It was officially announced on March 31 by the Japanese
Government that the Spretley Islands, or as they are termed in
Japanese "Sinnan Gunto", hod been plrced as of March 30 under
the jurisdiction of the Government General of Formosa. The
islands comprise smrll coral reefs in the South China Sen at a
point bout 300 milus southeast of French Indo-China, 340
miles northwest of British Borneo and 37o miles west of the
western extremity of the Philippine Islands.
In a statement issued by the Foreign Office it was claimed
that the islands were long considered to be ownerless but that
in l9l7 Japan begen, before the nationals of any other country,
to embark upon the economic development of the islands, that this
development had continued since then, and that a considerable
amount of capital had been invested for the exploitation of the
deposits of phosphate on them nd for the construction of various
permanent establishments. Although the islands are believed to
be too small to be of any appreci:ble economic value a stretegic
importnnce is attributed to their possession. As they lie almost
in the center of the South Chinn Sen and are not far distant from
Indo-Chin:, the Enst Indies, the southern end of the Philippine
Islands end Singapore, they afford a position of observation of
aerinl and neval movements to and from those places.
2.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
2.
Statement by the Prime Minister in Regard to
Japan's General Foreign Policy.
In an interview with newspaper reporters on March 29, the
Prime Minister is reported to have stated that "it would appear
that totalitarianism and liberalism are the burning questions
of the day. However, it is not in the 'spirit of Japan for
Japan to associate itself with liberal or totalitarian blocs
which would oppose each other".
This statement was no doubt an
allusion to the recent political developments that had occurred
in Europe and to the agitation in certain Japanese quarters for
the strengthening of the anti-Comintern Pact.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITICNS.
(a) The Diet.
The 74th session of the Diet, named by the vernacular
press "The Asia Promotion Diet", was adjourned on March 26, the
date scheduled for its closing. During the session, lasting
just three months, all the measures introduced by the Government
were enacted without serious protest and without any major altera-
tions. The 14 budget measures were passed in their original form
as were 78 of the 89 legislative bills. Only minor changes in the
other legislative bills were made and in every case with the
assent of the Government. No bills proposed from the floor of the
Diet were passed although some 228 petitions were adopted and sent
to the Government.*
Besides the attention given to consideration and en-
actment of the Government bills, many of which were hurriedly
pressed through in the last days of the session in order that
legislation might be completed before the date set for adjournment.
* Embassy's despatch No. 3e08, April 6, 1939.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
a number of matters were debated by resort to the device of in-
terpellating the Government. In regard to domestic problems.
criticism was made of the Government for its haphazard system cf
taxation. it was held that the budgets eppeared to havc beon
comnleted without considering the future demends with which the
nation would likely be faced in the program for the reconstruc-
tion of East Asin and that tax reforms were required in antici-
pation of such eventualities. The Government is reported to have
replied to this criticism thot many of the present tax arrange-
ments were provisional and tcmporry in character and that the
Government would undertake  study of tnx reforms. The Govern-
ment's attenticn was also brought to the conditions prev:iling
in the farming and fishing industries in Japen, and a resolution
wes passed in which the Government was requested to undertake
measures to expand the productive capacity of the farming and
fishing villagos. In support of this resolution it was stated
that the prusent emergoney had placed a hard strain on rurel in-
dustries; thet effective measures have not been taken to regulate
the supply of fertilizer to the farmers; th.t the excessive differ-
ence between the profits of griculture nd those of industry wes
having a deplorable effect on the attitude of the farmers; that
the Government should balance the profits more evenly; and thot
the Government should s trive to replenish the human resources of
the agrarien nd fishing vill ges as they are now suffering from
labor shortage.
On March 21 almost all the minor politicel prties and
factions in the House of Representntives adopted a resolution re-
questing the Government to strengthen further the anti-Comintern
Pact and carry out renovation of the domestic administration. Ir.
regard

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
regard to the first poilit it was stated in the resolution that
"in order to crush the Chiang Kai-shek régime, the third Fowers
aiding and abetting it must be suppressed or forced to withdrav.
and that this requires, externally, that Japan further strengthen
the rolationship of harmony and collaboretion with Germany and
Italy." The two largest p rties, however, refused to sign the
resolution nor did it elicit ny epproval from the Government.
Reference is made in the preceding sections in this
report to a number of interpellations and discussions in the Diet
concerning the Government's foreign policy.
(b) The Navy.
894.34
There was presented to the Diet on March 6 the Govern-
ment estimato for the Fourth Noval Replenishment Program since
1930. The estimates amount to Yen 1,674,142,000, the 1crgest in
Japanese naval history, nd the program is to extend over a period
of six years. The items provided for in this amount are Yen
1,205,780,000 for worship construction, Yen 188,321,000 for per-
fecting marine and land equipment -- presumably naval beses and
dockyards --, and Yen 300,000,000 for expansion of the naval air
force. In comparison with the third replenishment program (for
the fiscr1 years 1937-42) it is noted that the fourth replenish-
ment program provides for an increase of nerrly 50 per cent in war-
ship construction, over loo percent in neval bases and dockyrds,
and nenrly 300 porcent in the expansion of the air force. In
this connection the figures for the tnird and fourth replenishment
programs are given, broken down into their respective items, as
follows:

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
follows:
3rd
4th
Replenishment
Replenishment
Warship construction
837,049,000
1,205,780,000
Naval ases and dockyards
86,309,600
188,321,000
Expansion of nir force
75,267,724
4,300,041,000
Refitting and modernization
142,98,897
Replenishment of noval stores
25,093,750
Totals
1,166,708,971
1,694,142,000
The Minister of the Navy is reported to have stcted in the
Diet that in deciding on the navy's expansion programs considera-
tion had been given to the expansion plans of the United States
and Great Britlin nd Japan's own requirements. Later, reportedly
to clarify the meaning of these rem: rks, a spokesmsn of the Naval
Ministry stated that "Japon's nation l policy is to secure com-
mond of the seas in the Western Pacific in order to facilitate
execution of Japan's national policy es well as, of course, to
make secure her national defenses. To this end it becomes ne-
cessary for Japan to meet hypothetically the gre.test naval strongtr
of any single Power that moy be supposed in a position to be des-
patched to the Far East."
(c) The Army.
In the statements made in the Diet in reply to en interpella-
tion in regard to Japanese military policy abroad, the Minister
of Nnr is reported to hive stated on Morch 3 that the militcry
policy of the Japanese Army is twofold: "to give a drastic blow
to the anti-Japanese Chiang Kai-shek régime and at the same time
to prepere ngainst the Soviet menace".
(d)

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
(a) Important Statements by Government Officicls.
1.
Three-year Program for Production and Expansion
in Japon, "Manchukuo" and Chine.
On March 8 the President of the Cabinet Planning Board dis-
closed in a statement in th Diet the provisions of the Govern-
ment's plan for the expension of production, looking eventunlly
to self-sufficiency in sevoral commodities, in a three-year period
beginning April 1, 1939, in Japcn, Manchukuo and China.
The plan reportedly c-lls for the increse in production by
April 1, 1942, in the following articles to the amount indicated:
ordinary steel 60%; specia1 steels 100%; pig iron 100%; iron ore
150%; coa1 30% plus; aluminum 200% plus; maglesium 1000%; copper
80% plus; lnd 90%; zinc 70%; tin 100%; artificial eutomobile
gasolinc 2900%; n-tural utomobile Ensoline 30% plus; artificial
hoavy oil 800%; naturl ho-vy oil 30%; denatured 1cohol 1200%
plus; caustic soda 40%; industri: 1 s-1t 65%; sulph-te of ammonin
40%; pulp for rayon 220%; machine tools 100% plus; utomobiles
400% plus; wool 240%; locomotives 30; prssenger rilrond cars
70%; freight rrilro d cirs 50%.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
(a) The Budget for the Fisea1 Yu r 1939-40.
894.51
The following ere the v rious buagets prssed by the Diet
for the fisc 1 y'r beginning April 1, 1939:
1. Gener 1 Buaget
Yon 3,694,000,000
2. "Chinn Incident" budget
4,600,000,000
3.
First Supplement ry Budget
910,000,000
4.
Sccond Supplemunt-ry Budget
199,000,000
5.
Extr-Budgot.ry Obligations
of the Treasury
700,000,000
These

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
These budgets total Yen 10,109:541,000 but it is understo
that there is an overlapping of Yen 525,186,000, an emount which
has been transferred from the general accounts to the China
Incident budget. Thus, the grand total for the appropriaticns
of the coming year
are understood to be Yen 9.574,355,00c, of
which around Yen 6,433, 000,000 is rropriated fcr the Army and
Navy or more than 70 per cent of the total expenditure.
To meet
the expenditure provision is made for the issuance of Government
bonds to the amount of Yen 5,925,469,000, or approximately 67 per-
cent of the total revenues, while taxation and other revenues will
provide for some Yen 3,437,000,000. It is further reported that
authorized bonds not yet issued to cover the deficit in the
1938-39 fiscal year amount to Yen 2,456,000,000 and that thus in
the coming year the Government must provide for the absorption of
this amount together with the amount of the new bond issues which
wi11 total Yen 8,361,469,000.
In order to do this it has been
announced that the Government will instigate a campaign for savings
throughout Japan by the public in the next year of Yen 10,000,000,000
(b) Legislative Bills.
Of the 89 legislative bills passea by the Diet, the most
important might be regarded as follows:
the rice distribution
control law; law for the control of religious bodies, tc define
the establishment f religious orgenizations and to permit Govern-
ment control of such organizations;shipbuilding industry law, for
the protection, promotien and supervision of the shipbuilding in-
dustry; law for financing shipbuiiding, to permit banks to extend
greater financial assistance for ship construction; Japan Aviation
Company Law, to create a semi-Government air transport company to
rovide a single air transport unit for Japan, China and "Manchukuo";
light

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
ight metals manufacturing industry law, to place the light metal
industry under Government control and suhsidize this industry with
Government funds in order to expand producticn; imperial mining
promotion com any, to create a so-called national policy company
for the exploitation of minerals othor than gold, silver, iron
and coal; law for the protection of military resources secrets,
to suppress and to prevent industrial espionage over articles for
military use; and law pertaining to the purchase of provisional
military materials,to provide for direct purchase by the military
in China for materials needed for ruconstruction purposes.*
V. GOVERNNENT FINANCE.
The figures have been given in the foregoing section for the
894.5
Gov-rnment appropri tions for the coming fiscsl year as well as for
the ostimeted amount of bond issues for the coming fiscal year.
It is also noted th't in order to provide funds for the absorption
of the bond issues, a c mpnign would be initirted by the Government
for public savings of ter billion yen for investment in these bonds.
During the month under review bonds to the amount of some 430
million yen were issued. This increase in the Government bond in-
debtedness brought the total funded debt of the Government by
the nd of 1938-59 fisca1 year to the sum of Yen 17,344,853,000 of
which the domestic debts amounted to Yen 16,065,000,000 end the
forcien dubts to Yon 1,279,000,000. The latter figure showed a
very slight decrease over the provious month. By the end of the
coming fiscal yoar it is estimated that the bond indebtedness of
the Government will have increased to over Yen 25,000,000,000.
VI.
Embassy's dcspatch No. 3808, Ap1il 6, 1939.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FIN ANCIAL CONDITIONS.*
The disturbed European political situation, the continued
unsettled Japenese-Soviet fishury cispute, the recent sharp declin
in Americon siock pricos, the gonoral belief that price and control
monsures will be very subst nti lly strengthoned and the announced
enrly invocation of article 6, 8, 11 and 19 of the Genercl Mobilizs-
tion Law tended to dampon business end financial sentiment during the
month under review. Nith the exception of munitions end ellied in-
dustries, business transactions were limited, and with the huge
budgetary disbursement proposed for the next fiscal year, stronger
control mensures appeared inevitablc.
Statistics roleased for forcien tr-de for the month totalled
for cxports and imports together pproximotely Yen 400,000,000,
bout equal to that for February. There wos n slight fovorable
bulonce during the month of exports over imports. But for the first
qunrter of the yeor imports uxccoded exports in the nmount of
Yen 67,000,000, which was pr ctic 1ly the same figure s that for
the import excoss for the s me puriod in 1938; although the totel
foreign trade for the three months wns pproximatuly 15 percent
gre ter in value thon thet during the first thrue months of last
ye:r.
It is further reported that during the first quarter of
this year exports to the yen bloc areas in ".anchukuo" and China
showed a considerable increase in amount and value.
Raw silk prices were maintained throughout the month at the
unusually high level of Yen 1,Oo0 per bale. Other commodity prices
also continued strong with the exoeption of a number of items in-
cluding silk goods, woollen goods, rubber goods, sugar, coffee,beer
and sake which had been subjected to fixed standard maximum prices
vhereby these prices were decreased by from lo to 30 per cent.
The
Prepared with the assistance of the Office of Commercial Attache.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
The stock market was dull throughout the month with little
buying and weak prices, attrituted largely to the fear of intensi-
fied control measures. Money rates were consistently low and all
reports indicated a continuation of the heavy excess Government
payments. The yen-dollar rate continued stable at around .2725.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES SENT TC THE LEPARTMENT
NOL!.
Dato
Supject
3713 March 1
Andersen, Meyer & Co. Kiukiang
3714
March 1
Proposed Legiclati n to suppress incustrial
espionage.
3715 March 1
Request for new a lock.
3716
March 1
Bombing of Hongkong Territory by Jupanase Planes
on February 21, 1939.
3717
March 1
Tempcrary employment of Hirosti Tsurtta, Firemen.
3718
March 1
Fifth Quarter Exanination of Mr. Glenn W. Bruner.
3719
March 1
Request fcr Copper Eaonce Soreening for Replace-
ment purtoses.
3720
March 1
Japarase-Scv-an Fislery Hegociations.
3722
March 1
Prcrosed Legisiation for Lefinition of Status
of Religious Organizations and for the Control
Thereof.
3723 March 2
Terroristic Activities in the International Settl..
ment, Shenghai.
3724 Murch 2
Article by Mr. K. K. Kawakami,Foreign Corresponden.
of the Osaka MAINICHI.
3725
March 2
Cipher Tables.
3726
March 2
American Policy toward Japan.
3727
March 2
Soviet-Japanese Relations.
3728
March 4
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3729
March 4
Article by Foreign Office Spokesman.
3730
March 7
British Court Decision that Japan is at War.
3731
March 10
Cost of Living Stutements.
3732
March 9
Japanese Bombing of American Property, citizen, et
Loting, Kwangtung (Catholic Mission).
3733
March 9
Sixth Pacific Science Congress.
3734
March 9
Repeirs to Huating Installation.
3735
March 9
Reported Formation of Locel Oil Company Interested
In Importetion of Mexican Oil.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
-2.
No. Date
Subject
3736 March 1o Japanese Emigration to Brazil.
3737 March 1l Diplomatic Vise Roport.
3738 March il Fuel Oil Contract.
3739 March 11
American Property Losses fron Sino-Japanese Confli
Charles H. Riggs: Narking.
3740 March 13
Japaneso Bombing of Froperty o1 Covenant Mission-
ary Society at Kingmen, Hupeh.
3741 March 13 Second Quarterly Exemination of Raiph Blake.
3742 March 13
Report of Conditions in Japan During Monch of
February, 1939.
3743 March 13
Claim of Socony-Vacuum for Danage to Property,
Hoihow, Hainan, Saptember 10, 1938.
3744 March 13
Annual Convention of Association of Military Sur-
geons of the United States.
3745 March 13 Seventh World's Poultry Congress and Exposition.
3746 March 14
British Claims Against Japanese Government for
Property Losses in China.
3747 March 14
Japanese Interference with 3ritish Interests at
Shanghai.
©748 March 14
Japanese Bombing of Property of American Church
Mission, Ichang, Hupeh, China, March 8, 1939.
3749 March 14
1939 World Automotive Engineering Congress of
Society of Automotive Engineers, May 22 to June 8,
1939.
3750 March 14
Bombing by Japanese planes of property of Socony-
Vacuum Oil Company at Nanchang, Kiangsi.
375l March 14 Transportation of Remains of Late Ambassador Saito.
3752 March 14
British Representations Regarding Losses of
British Property Resulting from Sino-Japanese
Hostilities.
3753 March 15 North China Trade Restrictions.
3754 March 17 Importation of Rayon Pulp Into Japan.
3755 March 15 Foreign Property, Tientsin.
3756 March 15 Sanctions.
3757 March 16 North China Trade Restrictions
3758 March 16 Reaction to British Currency Credit to China.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-3.
No. Date
Subjoct
3759 March 16 Non-aggression Puct Suggosted by a Japanese.
3760 Maroh 16
Jopaneso Occupation of Uriversity of Shanghai Fro-
orty.
3761 March 16
Tax Discrimin tion Ag inst Subsidinry of British-
American Tobacco Coapany, Ltd., in Japanese Cor-
trolled Area in orth chine.
3762 March 16 Anti-Comintern Fact.
3763 Maroh 16 Japanese Naval Estimates.
3764 March 18 Diplom-tic Visa Roport.
3765 March 20
Clrim of the United States Stecl Products Company
Agninst the Puiping-Suiyuan Railway Company.
3766 March 24
Report to the Leugue of Nations on the Administra-
tion of the South Suo Islands under Japanese Mandar
for the Year 1937.
3767 March 22
American property losses resulting from Sino-
Japanese hostilities, 1937-1939. American Church
Mission, Ichang.
3768 March 22
Letters Rogatory, VENICE MARU
3769 March 24
Annual Convention of the Association of Military
Surgeons of the United States.
5770 March 24
Seventh World's Poultry Congress and Exposition.
3771 March 24
Sixth Pacific Science Congress.
3772 March 24
Ambassador Grew becomes Dean of the Diplomatic Cor
3773 March 25
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3774 March 27
American Property Losses resulting from Sino-Jap-
anese Hostilities, 1937-1939. Southern Baptist
Mission, Chengchow.
3775 March 27
American property losses resulting from Sino-
Japanese Hostilities, 1937-l939. Covenant Mission-
ary Society, Siangyang.
3776 March27
American property losses resulting from Sino-
Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939. Lutheran United
Mission, Fancheng.
3777 March 27
American property losses resulting from Sino-
Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939. American Presby-
terian Mission, North, Hengyang, Hunan Province.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
Date
Sutject
3778 Maroh 28 National Mobilization and tha Evolution of
Socialism in Japan.
3779 March 28
American Share of Sealskins taken on Robben Is. an
during 1938.
3780 March 28
Discrimiltory Taxation cf Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company Products, Kr ifeng.
3781 March 28
Kidnapping of Mr. Lyott, Chairmen of the British
Chamber of Commerce, Tientsin.
3782 March 28
Japanese interference with British London Mission,
Tsangchow, North China.
3783 March 28
Jupanese inturference with Messrs. Butterfield ans
Swire, "Tientsin.
3784 March 28 Proposed arrangement for reciprocal extension of
free entry privileges to consular officers.
3785 March 28
Examination by Japanese Customs Officers of
Personal Effects of Officers of the American
Government; Behavior of Japanese Police Officers.
3786 March 29
Establishment of Branch Offices of the Asia
Promotion Board (Koa-in).
3787 March 29 Proposed ncw Japanese-German Commercial Convention
3788 March 29 Second Querter Examination of Mr. J. Dixon dwards.
3789 March 29
Japanose Import Prohibition on Cigarettes at Hanko
British Rupresontations.
3790 March 29 Address dclivored by the Ambassador
3791 March 30
Japanoso discrimination against British rights and
interests in Pcking-Mukden Railway.
3792 March 30
Bond end Affidavit of Foreign Service Officer,
Eugene H. Dooman.
3793 March 31 Commendation of Report.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
during March 1939
No.
Date
Subject
115
March 2, 3 p.m.
Retirn of former Ambassador
Saito's remains.
116
March 2, 5 p.m.
Requisitions
117
March 3, 11 a.m.
Ja:an-Italy cultural convention
118
March 4, noon
Departure of Mr.Schmidt
119
March 4, 3 p.m.
Return cf Ambassador Saito's remains;
Aaerican-Japanese relations.
120
March 7, 6 p.m.
Japanese-German-Italian conversations.
121
March 8, 2 p.m.
Jepr nese eold shipments.
122
March 8, 1939
Angio-Cuinese agreement for the
establishment of a Chinese currency
stabilization fund.
123
March 8, 4 p.m.
Trade restrictions in North China.
124
March 8, 6 p.m.
Restrictions at Tientsin.
125
March 8, 7 p.m.
Japanese naval estimates.
126
March 10, 9 a.m.
Return of Mr. Schuler.
127
March 10, 11 a.m.
Japan-Russia.
128
March 10, 5 p.m.
German-Japanese relations.
129
March 10, 6 p.m.
Rumored Portuguese recognition of
"Manchukuo".
130
March 10, 8 p.m.
British credit plan to stabilize
Chinese currency.
131
March 11, 2 p.m.
Trade restrictions in North China.
132, March 11, 3 p.m.
British currency credit to China.
133
March 12, 11 a.m.
British currency credit to China.
134
March 14, 5 p.m.
University of Shanghai.
135
March 18, 11 a.m.
League of Nations report on
Japanese Mandated Islands.
136
March 20, 2 p.m.
Japanese bombing of American
property in China.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
-2.
No. date
Subject
137
March 20, 4 p.m.
Japanese bombing of American
property in China: proposed note.
138
March 21, 5 p.m.
Japanese attitude toward European
crisis.
139
March 22, 3 p.m.
Japanese report to the League of
Nations on Mandated Islands, 1937.
140
March 22, 8 p.m.
European situation: Reported
Japanese congratulations to Germany
concerning Czechoslovakia.
141
March 23, 2 p.m.
Japanese opening of Tsingtao harbor.
142
March 23, 7 p.m. . Japanese attitude toward European
crisis.
143
March 23, 9 p.m.
Search of foreigners at Tientsin for
old currency notes.
144
March 24, 6 p.m.
Japanese international telephone
censorship.
145
March 24, 8 p.m.
Japanese importation of pulp.
146
March 24, 9 p.m.
Taxation of Standard Oil products.
147
March 25, noon
Japanese bombing of Auerican property
in China: proposed note.
148
March 27, 2 p.m.
Transporting to Japan of ashes of
former Ambassador Saito by U.S.S.
ASTORIA.
149
March 28, 2 p.m.
Codes.
150
March 28, 3 p.m.
Codes.
151
March 28, 5 p.m.
Bombing of American mission propertie:
152
March 30, 10 a.m.
Transportation of Saito's remains on
U.S.S. ASTORIA.
153
March 30, 11 a.m.
Transportation of Saito's remains on
U.S.S. ASTORIA.
154
March 30, noon.
Program for visit of USS ASTORIA.
155
March 30, 7 p.m.
Visit of USS ASTORIA.
156
March 30, 8 p.m.
Bombing of American property in Chine

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No.
Date
Subject
157
March 30, 9 p.m.
Prime Minister's statement concerning
Japanese attitude in European
situation.
158
March 31, 4 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Spratley
Islands.
159
March 31, 6 p.m.
Prime Minister's statement and
American-Japanese relations.
160
March 31, 7 p.m.
British Ambassador's visit to Shangha
161
March 31, 8 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan: anti-cominter
pact.
0
R
13
9

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 19, 1939
Pagee 28 to 30
pages 6 and 7
Tokyo's monthly report for April 1939.
Most of the material of interest in
this report has already been recelved in
the Division in telegrams or despatohes.
It was announoed in April that
Artiole II of the National Mobilization
Law would soon be promulgated. The
artiole provides for conscription of any
Japanese subjeot for natlonal service and
1t is understood that Japanese men, exoept
those already enlisted in Government ser-
vice and others, suoh as doctors, will be
requisitioned to serve in businesses, fao-
tories, shipping or any other industry
designated by the Government. (Pages 27
and 28).
Japan's foreign trade in the first
third of 1939: Exoess of 1mports of
¥55,000,000. However, 1f on1y trade with
countries having foreign exchange is con-
sidered, there was an excess of imports of
more than ¥240,000,000.
As usual, this monthly report is
more than thirty pages long. À consider-
able part of the material in this report
(in some reports a preponderant part)

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
consists of rather lengthy summaries of
despatohes and telegrams already sent to
the Department and of notes sent by the
Embassy to the Foreign Office at Tokyo
and of notes received by the Embassy. It
seems te me unnecessary for the Department
to receive such complete summaries of
material already received by the Depart-
ment. In practically all instances no
new material is added to these lengthy
summaries. The work of the drafting officer
in Tokyo and that of the officer here who
reads the report (partioularly of the
drafting ofricer who probably spends fully
ten days preparing the report) would be
considerably lightened if only one or two
sentences were inoluded in the monthly
report in respect of each subject dealt
with and reference made to the telegram
or despatch being summarized, which could
then be looked up easily. (Reference is
made to such telegrams and despatches in
the monthly report as now done in Tokyo).
I suggest that the question of the
E
advisability of shortening the monthly
report substantially as suggested above
be taken up with Ambassador Grew. I
think that Ambassador Grew feels that it
1s helpful to the Department to have these
complete reports for reference purposes
but as a matter of fact the monthly report
is seldom referred to as an officer usually
wishes to go to the original despatches

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3
and telegrans dealing with any given sub-
Joot.
The effieer whe drafts the monthly
repert undoubtedly spends considerable time
eaek menth in preparing a sectien en
military eperatiens im China. The inferma-
tien im that sectien is based on Japanese
reports. It is therefore inaccurate and
I de met think it is very helpful to any-
one in the Divisien, as we receive more
acourate information in regard to military
operations in Chima from American repre-
semtatives in China. I think it would be
advisable, if pessible, to suggest to the
Ambessador that that seotien be eliminated
unless there 1s some exceptional ciroum-
stance making advisable the inclusion ef
such a seotion.
894.00 P.R./137

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.94)
.THE BOREIGN SERVICE
D
OF THE
FAR EA
WUN141939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ent of State
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1939 JUN 13 PM 1 46
AMERICAN EMBASSY
JU5-1939
Tokyo, Mey 24, 1939
Department of State
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
ZLEDAL ADVISER
No. 3912
AND REGORDS
JUN 30 
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITICNS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF APRIL, 1939.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER 
INTERNATIONAL ECONIM FAIRS
ONI MID
JUN 26 1939G
DEPARTMENT OF SIATE
994,00 ~.19.
COPI
The Honorable
O.N.1.
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No."93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
month of April, 1939.
Respectfully yours,
Iugaue N. Doomace
Fe
Eugene H. Dooman,
800
Chargé d'Affaires ari
FILED
JE:
Enclosure:
Report No. 151.
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
?9
Moscow
"
Chungking
99
Consulate General, Shanghai
99
Mukden
Harbin
Seoul.
Consulate, Dairen
Kobe
B
Osaka
Commandor-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet
In quintuplioate to the Department.
One erpy retained
Ar
74.

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 151.
REPORT OF CONDITICNS IN JAPAN LURING
THE MONTH OF APRIL, 1939.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX
AND SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITFD ST:TES:
(a) Return of the Ashes of mbossador Saito
to Japan by the U.S.S. ASTORIA.
.1,2
(b) North China Trade Restrictions.....
.2,3
(c) Anderson Meyer nd Company's property at
Kiukinng; Interference with the Mcvenent
of mericon Citizens in China, etc......
.4,5
(a) Nercotic Drug Traffic in Japonesu-Occupied
Areas of Chine.
.6,7
(e) Further Representations aade by the Embassy
to the Japanese Guvernment during the Menth
of April...
.7,8,9,10
(f) Recent Absence of Bombing by Japanese
Planes of merican Property in China........10,1l
(g) General Relations.
..11,12
II. REL:TIONS ITH OTHR CCUNTRIES:
(a) China
1. Milit ry Operaticns.......
.12,13,14
2.
Shonghni.
.14,15
.15,16
(b) Grent Brit in
1. Yongtze River Navigatin.......
.16
2.
Spratley Islonds..
.17
3.
Generol Relntions.....
.17,18
(c) France
1. Spratley Islrnus..
.18,19
(d) Sevint Russia..
.19,20
(e) Generol Inturnatiural Relations
1. Spratley Islands......
.21,22
Nine Power Prct, Rome-Serlin-Tokyo
Axis Europer Situ tin.
.22,23

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
LI.INTERN:L POLITICAL CONDITICNS:
(a) The Cabinet
Appointment of full-time Minister
for Oversoas Affcirs end Minister of
Communications.
.83,84
2.
Proposed reorgunizntien of the Ministry
of Comeree nd Industry.......
.24.5
(b) Political Porties
1. Dissension in the Seiyuki over Selection
of new Fresident....
.26
(c) Government proclrmations
1. Invocation cf Article 1l of the National
Mcbilizatien Low.....
.26,27
2.
Invocutien of parts f orticle 6 of
the Mebilization Low.....
.27
3.
The Freposed Invceatien of article 4 of
the Nationol Mebilization Lew...
.27,28
4. Pruposed Ccrnodity Price Contrcl Plan....28,29
GOVERNMENT FIN:NCE..
.30
I. GENER.L ECONOMIC AND FIN.NCI.L CONLITICNS..
.30,31.32
II. ACTIVITIES OF MERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Ncthing to report.
III. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CCMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing tc report.
L.BOR.
Nothing to report.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Ncthing to report.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Return of the Ashes of Ambassador Saito to Japan
by the U.S.S. ASTORIA.
On April 17 the U.S.S. ASTORIA arrived at Yokohama bearing
to Japan at the President's behest the ashes of the late
Japanese Ambassador to Washington, Hiroshi Saito, and remainec
as
in Japan on the ceremonial visit,/previously arranged, for
nine days. The delivery of the ashes by Captain Richmond K.
Turner of the ASTORIA to Mr. Sawada, the Vice Minister for For-
eign Affairs as Chairman of the Reception Committee, the cere-
701.9411
monies on the 17th and 18th in connection with escorting the
remains to Tokyo and the funeral services in the Buddhist Honganji
Temple were carried cut with marked solemnity, dignity and im-
pressiveness. The remaining days of the visit of the ASTORIA in
Japan were given ovor to the official reception and entertainment
of the personnel of the ASTORIA, with calls by Captain Turner on
the Government Ministers, dinners by Ambassador Grew and the For-
cign and Navy Ministers, and by tho House of Pcers and Represen-
tatives end a tea at the Imporial Gardens. On April 24 an
audience was arranged on Japanese initintive for the presentation
of Captcin Turner to the Emperor, and on that occasion the Emperor
requested the Ambassador to convey to the President his message
of gratefulness to the President and the Government and people
of the United States for their sympathy shown on the death of
Ambassador Saito and particularly for the President's courtesy
in providing a warship for trensporting the cshes to Japan.
On the same dy, to express the gratitude of the Japanese
poople to the United States Government and puople, a "Wolcome
Meeting for the Astorin" and a national sports exhibition were
held under the joint auspices of verious privete Japanese orgeni-
zations

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
. 2-
zations at an auditorium in Tokyo. The mooting, attended by
severel thousand prominent and influenti l Japanese, was a
highly enthusiastic reccption.
The Jtapanese roaction to the ASToRIA's visit may be readily
drawn from the foregoing description of the recuption given to it
and the profound ppreci tion expressed nt the time to the Unitcd
States. The publicity and attention given to the occasion over-
shadowed all else in the relations between Japan and the United
States and may well have marked a milestone in the rucord of
Japanese-Americn relntions to initiate a new trend in the atti-
tude of the Japanese Government and people tow rds the United
Stetes. This subject is discussed at length in the Ambassrdor's
despatch No. 3843 of April 26, 1939.
(b) North China Trade Restrictions.
It will be rec llcd th: t on March 1l the Amb ssador made
representitions* to the Minister for Foreign Aff irs concerning
the new drestic tr du restrictions, including the requiremont
of export permits nd controlled exch ng, thit w.re then
being imposed by the Jopanese-sporsored régime in North Chinf.
the support of the Jpnese uthorities.
On April 13 a note in reply to these rupresentations wos
received from the For ign Minister. The note generally denicd or
ignored the contentions of the Americ'n Government and morely
affirmed the acticns t ken by tho North Chin: régime. It was
stotod therein th t "in order to have the convertible notes of
the Federel Reserve Bunk or Chin, tin: only leg:l currency in
North Chin:, function fully ns a tr:de currency medium and in
order to stebilize theroby the curruncy system of North Chin
nd to bring about a sound development of for ign trade in N  th
China" the approval of the Federel Reserve Benk of China ws
rcqu iri
Embassy's Political Report for Merch, 1939.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.96)
-3.
required for customs clerrance for l& specificd commodities o
importence; that it wns tho understonding of the Japenese Govern
ment, that, contrary to the statement in tho Ambassedor's notc,
those measures were not arostic r do restrictions; th t, moreover
export pormits, when applied for by tr ders in the manner pre-
scribed, were obt inable f irly nd without discrimin:tion as to
tho nntionnlity or the pplicrnts ond the destination of the goods
and tht there wos no intontion to fovor Japan alone or to dis-
crimin te ng'inst the Unitcd Status or other foroign countries by
means of the mcasures.
It was then duclared in the note "thnt the Japoneso Goverr-
ment boliuved that the mensures had bun enucted and enforced with
strict imp rti lity in ordor to stabilize the log:l currency of
North China nd to promote the sound duvelopmont of the trade cf
North China and the Joperoso Government was firmly dutermined to
support the measures without stint". It was added, moreover,
thot it was the hope of the Jepanuse Government thet the United
St tes Government would :lso support the mutsures, thoreby pro-
in oting the sound development of tr de between the United States
and North Chinn.
Thure were no comments either public or officiel made in
regard to this note and nothing further occurrod in this connuc.
tion during the month under roview.*
(c)
Embossy's telegram No. 177, April 14 and despatch No. 3849,
April 27, 1939.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.94)
-4-
(c) Anderson Moyer and Comp ny's property at Kiukiang;
Interference with tho Movament of Americon Citizens
in Chins; etc.
In its telographic ilstructions of Anril 16*, the Deportmet
directod the Embassy to moke n emphrtic protest to the Foreign
Office with ragrrd to the refus l of the Japanese authorities in
Chine to permit an imericn employee of nderson Meyer and Comp ny
to land at Kiukiang, to umphosize that the Americnn Government
does not recognize ony right on the port of the Japanese euth-
orities to interfore with the movement of imericon citizons in
Ching, to take up the cases invclving interfurence with the land-
ing of American citizens t Hankow nd cases of ssault by Japan-
ese soldiers of American citizons nd to commont on the ttitude
of the Jop nuse Consul Genural at Shonshai.
On ipril 1 the Counselor of the mbassy handod to the
Director of tht imerican Eureu of the Foreign Office a note
from the mbassador addressed to the Minister for Foreign Aff irs.
The note referred first to the desire or And erson Meyer and
Company thut a pass be issued to n imericen umployee of the
Comrany to proceed from Shanth i to Kiukirng for the purpose of
looking artor the property there of th"t Comp'ny, nd requested
tho Jap neso Government urgently to dir ct that a poss be issued;
and it tren prusonted the cos. of Mr. Appel ord Mrs. Borntsun ond
son who wer: refused permission to 1 nd :t Hn.kow. In con-
clusion it medc cler tir t th mericin Government did not recoe -
nize ony right on the part of the Jopanese nuthorities to obstruct
or oth rwise intorfere with the movemont of Aierican citizens in
Chine, nd it exprussed the hope that the Aabussador woula be
inforned that the Japanese Government had directed its officiels
in C hino to rumove all restrictions on er.d impediments to the
movements
Deportment's tel pram No. 90, pri1 16, 1939.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
movements of American citizens.
At the same time Mr. Dooman brought to the attention of
Mr. Yoshizawa other cases that had been under discussion by the
American ai Japanese consular authorities at Shanghai as follows.
China Foreign Trade Corporation, subject of the Embassy's aide
memoire of April 5, 1939; Palmetto Presbyterian Mission property
at Soochow, Kiangsu, then under occupation by Japanese forces;
and the attacks by Japanese soldiers on Miss I.ouise Avett and
Mr. J. E. Jackson. Mr. Dooman stated that it appeared that the
Japanese Consul General at Shanghai had not chosen to familiarize
himself with these cases, with the result that the American Consul
General there could make no progress towerds their settlement;
t hat the Department had noted this non-cooperative ettitude of the
Japanese Consul General and had instructed the Embassy to make
known to the Foreign Office the unfavorable impression of Mr. Miur
which had been left witii the Department. Mr. Looman said he was
reluctant to set forth these facts in an official document but
wished to leave the Foreien Office in no doubt of the Depart-
mert's reaction to the Japanese Consul Cenerol's nttitude, and
with that in viow he left with Mr. Yoshizawa an i.formal paper whic
cited the cases referred to nd noted the imnression of the America
Government in retard to the attitude of the Jupnese Consul General
us lacking in interest end helpfulness in the cases.*
Mr. Yoshizawa st ted th.t he had not heard of any of the
cases referred to by Mr. Loomon other then tlose of Anderson Meyer
ind Company and the Chine Foreign Trade Corporation and thut the
Juponose Consul General at Shonghai hod foiled to report on the
others. Mr. Yoshizaw: then said he would do his best to met
the United St tes Government's wishes on the vorious cases men-
t. ioned.*
(6)
Embassy's telegram No. 194, April 22, nd Embassy's despitch
No. 3653, Apri1 27, 1939.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
.6.
(a) Narcotic Drug Traffic in Japanese-Occupied Areas of Cn
The Department, in its instruction of February 16, 1939. 
lating to the situntion in China with respuct to the traffic in
narcotics, directed the Embassy, cfter consultation with the
British Embassy, to meke representations to the Japanese Foreign
Office in this matter. Inasmuch as the British Embassy informe
this Embassy on April 10 that the motter was still under in-
vestigation by the British Government and that no instructions hed
yet been received by the British Embassy os to taking action
clong lines proposed in the Deportment's instruction, it was
decided not to del y further in cnrrying out the Donortment's
instruotions. Accordi gly on April 13 n nide memoire in the form
of the draft tronsmitted with the Doportment's instruction, to-
gether with its enclosure, were presented to the Foreign Office.
After expressing ppreciation of the United States Govern-
ment for Jopanese efforts in connection with the suppression
of the illegal troffic in norcotic drues butween Japan and the
United States, it was stated in the aide memoire that, according
to reports submitted by the Americnn offici ls, in the parts of
China now under Japanese military control Jepon se in authority
are not taking effective measures to cooperate in t he suppression
of the abuse of narcotic drugs und illicit traffic therein. The
nclosure to the aide memoire untitled Narcotics situation in
the Japanese-controlled areas in China," was then referred to as
dcscribing the situation existing in the Japanese-controlled
arens in China.
It was then stated in the aide memoire that the Japanese
Government shares with the American Government and with other
Governments the well-recoenized oblications under the inter-
national

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.97)
-i-
national drug conventions to control the proauction and dis-
tribution of raw opium, to rendor effective the limitation
of the manufacture of narcotic drugs to the world's legitimate
requiremonts for medical and scientific purposes, to use its
efforts to control or to cuuse to bo controlled all those who
manufacture, import, soll, distribute and oxport narcotic drues
and to cooperate in other ways provided for in those conven-
tions. It was pointed out that the régimes which have been
established in those areas in China controlled by Japanese milit
forces have not limited the manufacture or controlled the dis-
tribution of narcotic drugs, that in the light of the situation
existing in those arees the Japaneso Government has an inescapable
responsibility in th t connection. In urging upon the Jap anese
Government the imnortince of exercising the restrcining influence
which it is in : position to bring to bear on its notion:ls in
the occupied rens in Chin:  nd upon the régimes which h ve been
ost-blished therein, it wos stoted thot to the Government of the
United St tus the situ tion existing in the occupicd :reas was
one of dep concern bccnuse: (1) the ovidence in possession of the
American Government indic tod th t huroin found in illicit tref-
fic in tho Unitcd St tes hod since 19s5 come in 1 rge meusure
from the Jap rese Concussion in Tientsin and (2) pr ctic:lly 11
of the smoking opiun found in the illicit traffic in thc United
St tis comes from China, p rt of which is prep red in or uround
Shonghai, port in Couth China end a little in North China.*
(e) Further Renresent tions mede by the Embassy to
the Japanese Government durire the Month of April.
In conformity with the Dep rtmont's instructions**, repre-
sont-tions were m de by the Embassy to the Ministry of Foreign
Affirs
Emb ssy's despatch No. 3030, Apri1 14, 1939
**Deprrtment's telegram No. £0, April 1, 1939.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
Affairs protesting the delny occasioned to the China Foreign
Trade Corporation at Shanghci in obt ining possession of cortail
materials belonging to it which cre held there in Japanese
custody. In an nide memoire loft with the Foreign Office on
April 5,* an outline w-s given of th negotirtions undertaken
by the American Consulste General ct Shangh i for the reloese
by the Japanese cuthorities of the property at Markham Road,
Roilway Yards, Chapei, Shanghoi, belonging to the company.
It was then stated that inasmuch as the American company's
clnim to ownership of the m.teriul in question was sound, nd
in vi ew of (n) the feilure of the Jaonese cuthorities to present
any evidence tending to disprove this cl im; (b) the long delay
which had alrendy occurred; and (c) the lack of ony assurance thn
c satisfoctory loc-l settlement may be echieved in the near future
t he American Embassy desired to protest to the Japane so Foreign
Office g inst the acticns of the Jepunese nuthorities et
Shanghai and asked that either immedi te stups be teken to dis-
prove, to the satisfnction of the Amoricon cuthorities concerned,
the contention of the American compony, or thet prompt reimburse-
ment be mde by the Japorese cuthorities to the Americen company
for the losses susthined by thom through the disappearonce of the
m tericls in question.
On Anril 10, conform bly with the Depurtment's instructions,*
representations were m de to the Ministry of Foreign Aff irs in
regard to Japneso restrictions upon lawful nctivities of Americer
firms engaged in the fur business in North Chinn. In the note
presented to the Foreign Office, the Japeneso Government was
informed of the complaint th't had been mado by American fur
denlers in Tientsin tht post offices at interior points of
North
* Embassy's telegram No. 166, April 5, nd despatch No. 3806,
Anri1 6, 1939.
**Department's telegram No. 83, April 5, 1939.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
North China were declining to accept parcel post packages fo
transmission to Tientsin. It was stated that the se measur's
were definite rustrictions upon the lawful rctivities of the
American firms engaged in fur business end it was requested that
immediate steps be t ken to put an und to the rastrictions
On April 14, in conformity with the Department's instrtc-
tions**, ornl representations were made by the Embassy to the
Foreign Office in regard to remission by the American President
Lines, Limited, of yen revenues which had  ccumulated in Japen
and which that compeny was unable to transfer to the United
States due to Japanese exchange control regulations. The sub-
stance of the Deprtment's instruction was communicated to the
Director of the American Bureau of the Foreign Office and it was
explained that the United States Government expected continued
reciprocal treatment for the American stenmship lines in pur-
mitting them to remit accumuluted bal nces from Japan to the Unitec
States, the Japanese steamship lines operating to the United
States being frec to remit their belances to Japan. The Director
in reply promised that the matter would be given every consider-
tion.
On April 28, in compliance with the Dep rtmont's instruc-
tions*** concerning Japanese interference with property of the
Tsinghua University ut Peiping, the Counselor or the Embassy
ddressed a communication to the Liructor of the merican Bureau
of the Forcign Offico calling attention to the conditions that
prevailed at that university. Japanese forces have been con-
tinuully removing equipmei.t and furnishings of the university,
thus giving rise to grave doubts with regard to the intentions c
the Japanese military authoritios tovards proserving Tsinghua
University os an institution of lerning. It was requested that
the
Embassy's telegrem No. 170, April 8, nd despotch No. 3812,
April 10, 1939.
**Deportment's telugram No. E9, April 8, 1939.
***Department's telegram No. 104, 1.pril 20, 1909.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
the situation bc remedied without firther delay.
During the month of A ril the bassy m de representpuioin
to the Foreign Office concerning merican property Iosses in
China in the following instances:*
Jepanese Bombing of .merican Pronerty in China.
American property losses: Scondinovion Allience Iiesen,
Pingliang, Kansu nd Si'n, Sh: nsi.
Free Methodist Mission, Chengchow.
China Inland Mission, Kuling.
Covenant Mission Society, Kianglin.
American Church Mission, Changsha.
P. S. Ericcson, Shanchai. Looting.
O. E. Vongchr, Wanhsien. Bombing.
J. W. Porsons, Nanking. Looting.
American Prosbyterian Missi on, Mencheng, destruction.
merican Presbytericn Mission, North, Hengyera.
Bombing.
American Catholic Mission, Yingtan. Bonbing.
(f) Recent Absence of Bombing by Japenese Planes of
American Property in China.
It will be recallud thet on Mureh 3o the mbassedor,
in conformity with the Deportrent's instructicrs,  de to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs the mericon Gov rrment's mph tic
"nd forml protest e inst the continued inst:nces of bombing,
duri g Japanese nir rids, of Americon property in China.**
In
* These representations wore repo: ted in the following desp tches
which ere listed in the same order as the above representations:
Nos. 3802, ∴pri1 5; 3803, pri1 5; 3804, .-pri1 5; 3809, 4pri1 7;
3813, Apr11 7; 3816, ∴pri1 11; 3819, ∴pri1 11; 3820, ∴pri1 12;
3821, .pri1 12; 3822, pri1 12; 3828, ..pri1 13; 3834, pri1 19.
**Monthly political ruport for M.rch, 1939.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.96)
-11-
In its telegr m of .pril 22* the Dep rtment informed the
imbnssedor that for the first time in meny weeks no roports
hed been received of new bombings of moricon property by
Japonese piines, and suggested thet the mbassador might care
to mention this to the pproprinto Jopanese authorities. The
Ambassador had the occasior. sovcral days later of speaking to
the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs and other officials of th
Foreign Office and brought the matter to their attention. The
Ambassador was informed by tho Director of the Americn Bureau
of the Foreign Officc that in consultation with a corsiderable
nunber of staff officers of the Japanuse forces in China there
had been "some very plain speaking to the effect that the bomb-
ing of American property in Chine must coase.**
(6) Genur1 Relations.
The display of marked friundliness toverds the United
States by Japun over the visit of the U.S.S. ASToRI. has been
discussed in a previcus section nd, as wes mentioned there,
the apprecintive sentiment in regard to the United St tes Govern
mert's gusture of courtesy ppeored to h ve formed the dominant
feture in Jop nese relations with erice during the month
nnder review. The cffects of the visit could be noted in the
trentment in the Japanese pruso of the President's messuge to
Ch.nccllor Hitler on pril 14 to which widesprund publicity was
guner lly critic 1,  noted restra
given. ilthough the general tone of theditoricl conunts was/
wasapparent in denling with the subjeet, porticulorly in that the
President's inplicd rofererce to Jepan in the message was herdly
ven mentioned.
The
* Department's tul gran No. 107, pri1 22, 1939.
**Embossy's tulegram No. 197, pril 24, 1939.
***Ebaasy's tel grens Nos. 183, pril 18, nd 185, ..pril 19;
and desp tch No. 384k, pri1 26, 1939.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
-12-
The reaction in the press to the President's messege vari
from that of granting that the President's oppetl woula ve
value if war were to be averted, to that of oren and advurse
criticism. In the latter cetegery, which comprises the wor
of the editorial opinions, it wes held: that the Prerident was
trying merely to preserve the status quo and failed to rocc n
the just rights of the "have not" nations; that it was pres.u
on the part of the United States, a "have" nation, to assume 
role of a judge of the world's righteousness; and that the w.
is tired of the conference method and only the "have" nations have
gained by them, and that true peace cannot be secured unti? an
unless the claims of the "have nots" were satisfied.*
Some comments were seen in the Japanese press regarding 
return of the American fleet to the Pacific Ocean, in which t
opinion was ventured that the move was interded to restrain 
e se action in the event of a European war and presumably as a 
of demonstration against Japan. However, comnenting in this con-
nection, the Foreign Office spokesman is reported to have stace
that the Japanese Government regarded the move as a routine action
and viewed it with unconcern.
II. RELATIONS VITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) China.
1.
Military Operations.*
1
Military operations curing the month, according to Japanese
reports, were limited to drives against Chinese guerilla forces,
relatively small scale engagements with regular Chinese army forco.
.1.
Embassy's telegrams No. 183, April 18, and No. 185,
April 19, and despatch o. 384?, April 26, 1939.
**
Prepared with the assistance of the military Attaché's office.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
in districts around the already occupied areas, and the defense
against what the Japenese called the Chinese "April offonsive".
In regard to this offensive the Japaneso reports claimed that the
Chinese campaign was a complete failure and that the Japanese
units had driven back the attacks on all fronts.
The April offonsive - to provious reports of which the
Japanese had apparently given little credence - reportedly
matorialized on schedulc on April l0 with concerted attacks made
on a number of fronts, including Suiyuan, Shansi, North Honan and
the Canton area. In the Suiyuen soctor the Chinese attacked in
the aren east of Paotow and were said to have been driven off by
a Japaneso counter-offensive. In Shonsi, cspecially in southern
Shensi, many ongagements were reported, in all of which the Japen-
eso cl imed to have repulsed the Chinese. However, it is noted
thot despite the months of Jepenese campnigns launched in Shansi
arinst thc Chinese forcus in thot province, reports of continued
fighting there appeored in the pross even up to the ond of the
month.
The most intensive org gements of the "April orfensive"
apparently occurred in the Koifung ren in North Honan, where 
number of determined Chinese attacks were made on that conter,
suveril of which rosulting in the Chinese renching clmost to the
walls of the city before buing driven off. It is understood that
these attacks were well plenned and eave the Japanese some con-
curn in holding Kaifeng. At the s me time, other activity
occurred north of the Yullow River in Honon  nd in the aren near
Shihkiachwang and Paoting, where the Japanese reportedly fought
some forty engagements.
In

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.98)
14-
In the area around Canton it is reported that lerge numbere
of Chinese troops moved south in the direction of Canton and
that heavy fighting occurred north of Tsungfa and Tsengcheng
with the Jtpanese finnlly defecting/tttacking forces. Fighting
around Kongmoon and Frhsien was  lso reported. The Tamchow Deir.
twenty miles south of Cantcn, was reportedly occupied on April 14.
Throughout tho month, engnguments occurred in both the Wunin
and Nanchang sectors in Ki ngsi incident to the pursuing of the
retreating Chinese forces after the capture of those two cities
at the end of March. Kaocn, about thirty milos west of Nanchang
was captured on April 1 and by the end of the month the Japanesc
hnd advanced to within a r:dius of from twenty to thirty miles wes:
south and east from Nanchang. The Chinese troops were snid to
have concentrated at Tencheng on the Kan River. On April 18 Kulin.
was finally occupiod.
At the boginning of the month rather huavy bombing attacks
were reported to hove been underteken in the area around Nanchang
and in North Hon'n, Shansi, and Shensi, and in Kwangsi nnd Yunnan.
But with tho exception of raids on Foochow nd Swatow, Japanese
aviation reportedly wns little cctive during the renninder of the
month.
2. Shanghai.
There appeared in the locnl press towards the cnd of the
month  report th-t the Foreign Ministry wos expected soon to
invite the British and Americon Ambassedors to the Forcign Office
to acqunint them with the policy of the Japanese Government to-
werds the Intornational Settlement et Shanghai. In the report,
it wes contended that the Chiang Kei-shek administration, taking
advantage of the friendly ttitude of Britrin nd Amorica, had
indulged in anti-Japanese activities in the Sottlement. Tho
Tapanese protests in this regord to the Municipal Council were
referred

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
referred to and it was asserted thut Great Britain and the United
Stntes were "still obsessed by tho old idecs which governed the
Intern tionl Settl mont". "They ignoro", the roport continued,
"the complete chonge in conditions which are a sequel to the Sino-
Japanose hostilitius, while the Jap'ruse Government stoutly holds
that it cannot recognize the cgreements which the International
Settlement previously concluded with the Chiang Kai-shek régime
and that the Japenese Government is expected to announce its
policy to settle . 1 outstanding issues after the Municipal Counci!
has been properly reorgonized and the Settlement extension and
o ther problems hnve been settled." It was also st ted in the
article that n similor represontation would be made to the Fronch
Government in regord to the French Concession "in view of the fre-
quent occurrences of terrorism there".
3. General Relations.
It wns announced in the pross in Junan on April 21 that & new
Vuhan Special Municip lity had been organized nd that prepara-
tions were buing m de for n nuw régime, whose sert would be at
Hinkow, to be cronted to rav jurisiction over the provinces
of Hupeh, Hunan and Kiangsi. It wes oxpected that this new govern-
ment would come into existence by August cf this yeer.
There were rumors current during the month to the ifect that
a peace might shortly be cencluded in the pr sent Sino-J: ponuse
hostilities. In this regerd the local press intim ted thet "the
coll pse of the Chineso April offensive" would discour ge the
Chine se supporters of resisti co to J n'n and would unoourege the
advoc tus of peece, nd that ions Ching lei's third st tement,
which was m de in April, reg rding the necessity for the immedinte
cessation

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.96)
-16-
cessation of Sinc-Japnese hostilities would h lp tow rds this 
It should be noted, however, thet ny such movemunt for puace w
interpreted in Jap nt se roports as predicnted on "Sino-Japanes
cooperation for e new order in East Asic following th: overthrov
of tho anti-Japonese Chinse Notionel Gov-rnment".
On April 29 an nnouncement pperred in the locel Jap n.
press that a bank of issue, to bo kuown as the Centrai China
Commercial Bank, & Sino-Jopanese entorpris, would bo inaugurated
on May 1 et Shanghai. The notes to be issued by the bank, it w
stated, would be mointained at par with the Chinese n tionel
currency and would b: convertible into foreign exchange.
(b) Great Brit in
1. Yongtz Riv r Naviestion.
On April 10 th: British Emb ssy m de furthur ropresentations
to the Jopanese For icn Orfice in regard to the Joponese closing
of the Yangtze Rivor to for ign shipping*. In  memorondum left
with the Minister for Forcign Aff irs reforence wes m de to evi-
to the Jepane se Government
dence which the British mbsssy h d Ir dy supplicd showing th t
in v rious ways J panuse milit: ry control over the Yangtz: River
was buing used, not for purcly milit ry unds, but for the purnose
of enebling Japonese commerci:l enterprisus to benefit fram the
exclusion cf foruign shipping. obsorv:tions were mede to the ef-
fect th't shipping of crdin ry gcods up the Yongtze River was
being carried on fruuly; th t inform tion rugarding the c rgo
shipped by Japanese vessels led to the conclusion that some
portions or the goods c rried could not be described is cargo
for militery requirements; and that not only was Japnese shipping
benefitting from the exclusion of foreign shinping from the Yangtz
but in certain localities in the Yangtze Valley taxes were being
imposed on all goods imported except J panese goods.
2.
* Embassy's tlegram No. 176, April 15 and dosnatch No. 3878,
Mry 9, 1939.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
2. Spratley Islonds.
It will be recalled thet on Merch 30 the Japenese Govern-
ment announced that the Spratly Islands had been placed under
the jurisdiction of the Governor Genural of Formosa.
In a note doted April 10 the British Ambassador, referring
to this announcoment, informed the Foreign Minister, under in-
structions from his government, that the British Government
was "unable to admit that the cl im of the Japaneso Government
has eny legal foundation, end that they deplore the procedure
adopted by the Japaneso Governmont in this matter as it can only
complicate still further the sitution in the Far Enst".
In reply to this representation the Foreign Ministry,
in a ncte dated April 13, st-ted that the Japanese Government
"find difficulty in understanding wherein the basis for the
British Government's representoti ns lie, since not only was
this measure a lawful rct based both upon fact and upon law but
it is also a matter which coneerns Japan and Fronce" and added
that the Japenese Government entirely disagreed that the men sure
would "still further cumplic.te the situ tion in the Far Enst.*
3. Goneral Relations.
The storm uf cricitiem of Gret Brit in thut arose over
the Chinese British Curroncy Stabilization Fund Agreement and
t he bitterly nt gonistic tt cks in the Japanese press during
March agninst that country subsided to an ppreciable extent in
April, and much less public attention appeired to heve been given
to Enelond. Hewever, ne imprevement in the relati ns between the
two countries c uld be said to hove occurred, and Japanese hcs-
tility and entipothy towards England, perticularly in regard to
the
Embessy's telegram No. 179, April 17, nd dospatch No. 3845,
Apri1 27, 1939.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.97)
-1ε-
the so-cnlled unfriendly ttitudc of Britain towards Japan con-
cerning China, generally remained unabated. During the early
part of the month suspicion was aroused in Japon over the subject
matter of the discussions at Sherghai of the British Ambassaders
to China and Japen. Cort: in of the mere jingoistic Japanese
pipers concluded thet the meeting of the two onvoys was solely
i ntended to devise further moans to frustrete Japanese attempts
to create a new order in East Asia. A more mederate viow taken
in ot her circles was that the purpose cf the meeting was te ex-
plore the possibility of British mediatien between Japan and China,
but it was added in these later reports that if this was sc, the
discussion, although of censiderable diplometic impert, could be
merely academic, as Japan's fixed policy did net ndmit cf inter-
ventien f Gruot Britoin or ny cther third Puwer in the matter.
A goed der1 of suspici n and tension was arcused cver
British neg tinti ns with Russia in regard tc the European anti-
aggression greenents. It was said that Japan was closely watch-
ing whether the anti-aggressi n schome w uld be extended te the
Far East, as it was understcod Sevict Russia clearly dcsired,
and that if it were Japan could not rumain indifferent. It was
intimated that if such an oventuality sh uld ccur the anti-
British m vement in Japan would flare up again and that this
ccuntry w uld alsy have t. rovise its attitude t wards Great
Britain.
(c) France.
1. Spratley Islands.
It will be recalled that at the same time that Japan an-
nounced that the Sprutley Islands had been placed under the
jurisdictin f Ferm sa, n tificatien was given to France f
this

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
this act as France had also made claims to those Islands.
On April 4 the French Anbassador, undor instructicns frem his
ecvernment, furmally pretested t. the Minister fer Foreign Affair.
e airst this acti n n th. part of the Japaneso Gevernment*.
the note presented by M. .rsène-henry, it was stated that the
French Government had tasen cognizance of the Japanese note of
March 31 "according to the terms of which the Imperial Governmert.
persisting in contesting the rights of France in the Spratley
Archipelago, refuses to leave to decision by an arbitral tribunai
the dispute which has arisen on this question between the two
governments".
The rote then entered a formal protest and stated
that it could not recognize a Japanese decision which could in no
degree and in no case affect the sovereign rights of France to
the Spratley Archipelago, and concluded by reserving "the right
to reexamine the position which the French Government has believe
it desirable to take or maintain with regard to the various exist-
ing problems in the Far East".
The French protest was met with the resronse that "there is
no room for consideration regardin the issue". On April 8 the
spokesman of the Foreign Office issued a statement in which it
was declared that the Japanese action was decided upon the basis
of established policy and that the Japanese Government would
receive the French note only as a matter of reference.
No further
exchange of correspordence on the motter between the two covern-
ments occurred during tho month.
(a) Soviet Russia.
The dispute butween Japan and Russia over the fishery questicr
which had been the subject of extended conversations during the
past six or eight months and had given rise to considerable frictic
in
Embassy's telegram No. 167, April 6, and Enbassy's despatch
No. 3810, Arril 8, 1939.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.97)
-20~
in the relations between the two countries, was finally settled :
the conclusion of an eleventh-hour agreement on April 2 of a
mdus vivendi valid until December 31, 1939.
It will be recalled that the Soviet authorities held an
auction for the fishery lots on March 15 but that the Japanese
refruined fromparticipating in tho bidding and that another
auction was announced by the Soviets to teke plcce on April 3:
It was stated in Japan that the Japanese Goverrment would continue
to press for an egreement with Russia until the last moment befor:
the season opened in April but that if negotiations feiled Japan
was prepared to use its own means to continue Japanese fishing in
Russian territorial waters.
The agreement provides for the continuation of the fishery
convention of 1928 until the end of this year. Its main pro-
visions are that the stabilized fishery lots would be placed at
cuction to be acquired by Japenese fishing interests for a
1 ease of five years, at an inerease of not more than 10 per cent
over the pricc paid list y  r; th't the stabilized lots bid in by
the Sovict interests curing the March 15 auction would be returned
to the Japnuse interests; tht 37 fishery lots formerly cuctioned
to Japnese would be withdrawn but ton substitute lots would be
o ffered; and that the rouble-yen exchange r:te would rumain un-
changed at one rouble to uqual 32.5 sun.
In a stat ament issued by the Foreign Office it was asserted
that as a result of the nogotiations the Japaneso interests had
acquired 362 fishing lots, of which 264 wore to be stabilized for
a period of five years.
In connection with these stabilized lots, it is significant
to note that while the Soviet Government merely agreed to a modus
vivendi until the end of the year, these lots were issued to Jap-
anesu

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
21-
aneso interests under lease to them for a period of five years.
Thus it would appear that, in part at least, more advance was
made in these negotiations than had been accomplished in previous
years towards a permarent settlement of the fishcrins qucstion.
In the mnin, a favorable Japanese reaction to the settlement
of the fishery dispute was expressod in the editorinl comments.
It was genorally held that as a whole the results of the agree-
ment were satisfactory to Japan despite the f ct that Japan is
c onsidered to have lost 10 per cent of the number of fishery lots
p reviously enjoyed. Nevertheless, some criticism was also heard
t hat this loss rupresented a step bnckward for Japan and that
Japan, in the future, must see to it that no further retreat be
made.
On April 24 the Vice Minister for Foreign Affirs was re-
ported to have made representations to the Soviet Chargé a'Affaires
in protest against the unreasonable pressure that the Soviet auth-
oritios were held to be applying on Japaneso oil nd coal rights
in North Saghalien. He roportodly asked that the Sovict uth-
orities assure that operations of those two interests be permitted
to continue unhnmporod during the season of Mey until October.
It was held, in this connection, that duo to the Soviet pressure
on the importation of mnterials needed for the enterprises,
and on the oxportation of proatcts cbtained therefrom, Japanese
and
coal mining interests have beon un ble to continue their work not
n sirelc oil woll
178
been oponcd durire the past two years.
(o) General International Relntions.
1. Spratley Islands.
The spokesmen of the N:vy Ministry is reported to have suid,
in a press interview on April 20 in clarific tion of Japan's
J
position in regard to the Spratley Islands, th-t the Japanese
Navy has no intention at present of mnking nctive use of the
Islands

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.97)
…22-
Islands; that there are no good natural harbors in the Islands;
that no sites for nevel bases in the lslands have yet bean dis-
covered; and that due to the fact that even the biggost Island
had an nrea of only 1,000 by 300 meters, thore were hardly
any suitable sites for landing fields for eirplanss. It will
be noted that this statement differs particularly in regird to
the military value of the islands, from opinions of other sources
to the effect thnt the islands may be a good strategic asset as a
naval outpost and base for nnvel ttack.
Nine-Power Pact, Rome-Jerlin-Tokyo Axis
Europeen Situntion.
A great derl of public attention was monifested during the
month concerning the position th t Japan should take in its cen-
er-l foreign relations with world povers. At the beginning of
the nonth reports ppeared in the local press that with the Soviet.
Jananese crisis over the fishery issue averted by the conclusion
of the new fishery greement, the ttention of the Government
would therecrtor be cirected more intensely to ths edjustment of
Japanese relntions with the Powers over the China problem. It
was pointed out that no replies had yet been made to the notes
of the Americ-n, British nd Fronch Govornments gainst Japun's
policy for crertion of a "now ordur in East Asia", but thet the
Japonoso Govuriment hae no intention of delaying the replied in-
definitoly. It was then stated th't inasmuch as the protusts
1 odged by these countrius were based on the Nine-Power Treety,
Japen would have to cive full consideration to the treaty it-
self and it was believed that the view was stendily gaining
rournd in covornmont circles that the pect ill accorded with
the new situ.tion in the Far Enst nd that Japan would almost
certainly shortly decide to repudiate it.
Following

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
Following the rumors that were heard in the previous
few months regerding agitation in certain quarters for a
strengthering of the nti-Comintern p ct, reports were current
in April that the Government wns eig ged in deliberating this
matter. During the latter half cf the month almost daily
five-minister conferenccs wero held which reportedly were
primarily concerned with Japan's policy regarding the nti-
Comintern pact and rugarding the Europeun siturtion.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITICNS.
(a) Ccbinet.
1.
Appointment of full-time Minister for
Overseas Affeirs ond Minister of Communications
On April 7 General Kuminki Koiso, rotired, was invested as
Minister for Overseas Aff irs, nd r. Haromichi Tanabe, as
Minister of Communicntions. The oppointmonts relieved Mr.
Yoshiaki Hatta of his concurrent posts as Cv rseas Minister and
Minister of Commerce nd Industry; nd Mr. Suehiko Shiono of
his concurrent portfolios of Conmunicntions nd Justice. At
the same time Mr. Kogo Ot , private secret ry to Premier Hir numa,
was named Cobi.ct Chief Secret ry to succoed Mr. T nabe.
Due to his back rourd, the  ppointmont of Generol Koiso
as Minister for Cverseas Affoirs was considered particulerly
n oteworthy and perh.ps indic tive of the future trend of the
Hir numa Crbinet. He his been closoly connected with Japanese
expansion on the Continent, ving buen director of the Military
Affirs Bureau at the outbreak of the mnchuri n incident, lnter
Chief of Staff cf the Kw ntung Aray:  nd tlen in 1935 coma nder
of he Korean Army. He hos been most outsnoken nd positive in
his

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.98)
~24-
his views and has been closely associated with the single-party
or totelitarian movament, being & member of the Kokuhansha, a
reactionary and ultra-nationalistic society with the avowed purpo
of reconstructing the Government on the basis of the "the Imperial
Way". In en interview with the press shortly following his appoin
ment, General Koiso is reported to have stated that he believed
t hat the anti-Comintern pct with Germany nd Itoly must be
strengthened, that reorganization of the industrial and other na-
tional systems on a war-time footing must be realized, and that
there was need for Japan t-king speedier and therefore more
effective mensures for the settlement of the Chine Incident.
The new Minister of Communications, Mr. Tanebe, has been
closely associted with communiction problems for m ny yers, hav-
ing served in the Ministry of Communications in various capacities
s ince 1905. He was called from retirement in 1932 to the post of
Privy Councillor of "Manchukuo", which post he held until 1937,
and he was prominently mentioned for the post of Minister of Com
munications in that ye r. The selection of Mr. Tanabe to head
the Ministry of Communicetions was generally held to be n good
one, as, being in export on communicutions, he would be a capable
person to hondle the incrensingly importent duties of the Ministry,
including the control over the natienal electric power industry,
shipping nd avintien i dustries nd to in egrate this work with
Jopan's plans for expansien on the Continent.*
2.
Proposed reorgenization of the Minis try of
Commerce and Industry.
It was announced that plans had been completed on April 6
for extensive ndministrative chenges in the organization of the
Ministr.
* Emb:ssy's despatch No. 3815, April 11, 1939.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
Ministry of Commerce and Industry and that an Imperial Ordinance
would shortly be issued effecting the changes.
The plans, it is understood, involved the expansion of ten
existing burenus thet have been eithur in the Ministry or under it
supervision and the creation of two new important bureaus -- the
Price Bureau and the Deliberative Council for the Adjustment of
Demand and Supply of Commodities. Of the plans for the enlargemen.
of the existing burecus perhaps the most far-reaching and signifi
cant are those for the duties of the Generel Affnirs Burenu of
the Ministry: this burenu will be cherged with affairs relnting
to industrial development plans common to Japan, "Manchukuo" and
China, expansion of productivity, and mobilization of material
resources. The new Price Burecu will be given authority, under
Article 19 of the General Mobilizaticn Act (this act to be invoked
simultaneously with the crection of the Bureau) to regulatc com-
modity prices. The Deliberative Council for the Adjustment of
Demand and Supply of Commodities will be  policy-making body for
the purposes which its nime implies. One of its most important
duties will be to nct ns a liaison office betweon the Ministries
of Commerce ond Industry, Wir and Navy regarding matters relating
to war-time economic dministration.
The pr:ctic-l import of these changes will be that of con-
solidating and placing on n rel-tively permanunt basis measures
that have already been undertiken by the Government more or less
of a tumporary ch: racter, and th't of implumonting further the
Government's policy of control .nd regimentation of the economic
life of the nntion that los attended the emergency situation in
Japan since the outbrenk of the Chinn Incident.*
(b)
* Embessy s despatch No. 3E14, April 18, 1939.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
-26
(b) Political Parties.
1. Dissension in the Seiyukai over Selection of
a new President.
After the close of the Diet session in March, the dis-
cussions which had been going on in the Seiyukci, one of the tw:
major political parties of Japan, over the selection of a new
President to succeed Dr. Kiseburo Suzuki, who had announced his
ret irement last autumn, turned into a heated and bitter controvers;
between various foctions in the party, centering principally betw
the so-called "renovation" nnd the "orthodox' lengues. It was
announced on April 30 that the "renovation lengue had, in e con-
vention of its own, selected Mr. Chikuhei Nakajima, leader of that
group, as President of the party. This selection, however, was
immedintely denounced by th. "orthodox league", and it wns under-
stood th:t & virturl split hed occurred in the Seiyukci and that
t he two f ctions were now sepor tely claiming to represent the
party.
The whole dispute seemed to hrve been prim'rily one of
foctional intriguing nd struggle of personelities to dominate
t he party, fundamental party polioies net bui g involved. The
st te of impotence to which the pertics have been reduced make
this incident, drematic as it has been at times, one of little
significance.
(c) Government proclomations.
1.
Invocntion of Article 1l of the National
Mobilization L~w.
On April 1 there was promulgated en Imperial decree in-
voking article 1l -- Concerning Distribution of Prcfit of
Corporations -- of the National Mobilization Law, which was to he
effective April 10. Article 1l provides in effect that: no
corporation

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
-07-
corporrtions with a cpital of Yen 00,oo0 or moro mny pay divi-
dends upon profits of ench fiscal yeor in excess of the basic rate
of dividends which r:te will be determined in accordance with the
provisions of the rticle.
It was nnounced later in pril that the Government would
n ot, with but a few exceptions, permit companies to increase
their dividends and th't rigid inquiry of the finncial conditicns
of companies would be carried out.
It is estimoted that some 15,o00 corpor tions in Japan are
capitelized at over Yen 200,000 and will be nffected by this decre?
2.
Invocation of perts of article 6 of the
Mobilization Law.
Two Imperial Decrees were promulgated on Merclh 31 invoking
parts of Article 6 -- pe:taining to Government Regulation of
Employment and Labor Affairs -- of the National Mobilization Law.
The first decree, effective April 10, empowered the Government
to r gulite and control w'ges in cert in industries, the regula-
tions to this effect to be announced at a lator date; the second,
effective May 1, provided for the limitation of working hours in
m nchirery, shipbuildins, fuels, ncine tool, steel nd militory
plants. (oferenco is made to the Emb ssy's politicel report for
Febru-ry for the provisions of this latter decree).
The Proposed Invocntion of Article 4 of the
National Mobilization Act.
It was announced during the month under review that a
decree had been dr:fted nd would soon be pro ulgated to put
i nto force the provisions of article 4 of the Nationrl Mobiliza-
tion Low. The rticle provides fcr tho conscription of eny Jopan-
* Embcssy's despotch No. 3614, Apri1 8, 1939.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
-26
ese subject for national service. It is understood that Jrperont
men, excopt those already enlisted in Government services nnd.
others, such as doctors, etc., will be requisitioned to serve n
businesses, factories, shinping or any other industry dusignater
by the Government.
4. Proposed Commodity Price Control Plan.
In consonance with other developments th't have been taking
place in Japon -- such as the reorginizntion of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry nd the invocation of further articles of
the National Mobilization Act is described in the foregoing --
towards complete control ond integr:tion of the economic life of
Japen, work has been proceedirg during the past soveral months in
the formulntion of a system of Governmont price control over
commodities. Tho task of evolvin such a system was ssigned to
the Central Price Commission with, it is understood, these
particular objoctives in view: to set up  definito systen to
replace the hophozord meesurus previously t'ken under commodity
control rugulations and nti-profiteering ordinances; to stop
the continuous rise in prices nd to force them down to lower
lovels; to promote exnort business while at the same time main-
t-ining the present yen exchange r te; to help assur an equnli-
zation of the supply and demends of conmodities end generally to
bolstur up the conomic structurc of the courtry. After long
sessions over the preparations, attenaed by a grent doal
of public discussion nd comment on the matter, on April 28
it was announced that a draft pl:n hnd been adopted and soon
would be put into force. The principal provisions of the plan,
s ruported, may be sumnarized as follows: to attoin the ob-
jectives of price control, the system to be based on stabiliza-
tion of prices in line with the intern tion-l price level (the
current price in Jepan for oxport commoditius;are estimatedly
£5 per cent ebove those of international prices) first, prioos
of

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
prices of imported articles cre to be fixed on the actuel basis
of import costs and prices of domestic articles similar to im-
ported artioles are to be adjusted to the level of the imported
crticles; secondly, the pricesof raw mnterials for export goods
are to be adjusted on the basis of prices of foreign markets
and in rolntion to the national production cop city expansion
progrem; thirdly, prices of all other articles are to be adjustec
in relation to the prices of rnw materials for oxport goods.
Prices oro to be quoted officially under fixed standards for the
following type of articles; munitions, export articles, maturials
made for the expension of production, nd daily necessities under
the war-time system. The use of raw mnterisls for articles not
givun official price quotations is to be limited and in some in-
stances prohibited. In order to regulate the consumption of
crticles and to bsorb the surplus purchase power of the people
to provide funds for Government cxpenditures and for production
expension, thrift nd savines are to be encour ged. In order
to isure proper price luvels the elements in the cost of pro-
cuction of wages and selaries, freight chrrges, profits nd rents
are to be regulted. Price contrcl mechinery is to be est blished
in Jepn proper, Japonose possessions, "Manchukuo" ana Chino.
Although as has been mentioned in the for going, the setting
up of  price cortrol system falls in line with the other develop-
ments i. the system which has been evolved in Jopin of regulated
notionel economy, the mgritude of the task and the widespre:d
offects ti.t it inevitably must have if fully and efiectively
enforced, will undoubtedly ark an avent of mnjor significonce to
the cconomic structure of the ccuntry. It is reported that a
thorough reorganiz- tion of ell industrios in the nation is bound
to follow and thot to put this price contrcl systen into force the
n:jority

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
…C-
majority, if not all, of the provisions of the National Mobiliz
tion Law will heve to be invcked.
V. GOVERN ENT FININCE.
During the month undur review the Government floated one
issue of China Incident" bonds in the amount of Yen 300,000,000.
The Finance Minister announced thet as the absorption of nationa
bonds has proceeded very favorebly thus far through netional
thrift and savings he had no apprehension with respect to the
continued assimilation of the Goverrmont bonds, and that no
forcible methods for assuring the ccntinuation of such assimil?-
tion were contemplated at the moment nor did he propose to chansu
the present interest rate of 3.5%.
VI. GEIERAL ECONOMIC AND FIN.NCI.L CONDITIONS.
The figures for Jnpan's foreign trade for the first third
f the year were given as tctal exports Yen 940,000,000, total
imports Yen 995,000,000, shcwing an import excess of Yon 55,000,000.
The import excess was half that of the corres onding figure for
1 938 when the import excess was Yen 112,000,000, while in com-
 ring the import and export figures cf the twe years it is neted
i hat imports rose by enly Yen 44,000,000 and exports by
Yen 102,000,000 this year over last. However, in Japan's t rade
with ccuntrics from which the much sought-after foreign exchange
is to be acquired, i.c., thus, countrios other than tho "yen-bloc
of Manchukuo, Kwantune, and China", during the first fuur months of
year there was an excess of imperts over experts of scmething
over Yen 240,000,000, representinε an increrse of Yen 70,000,000
in iaports ovor exports from the rest of the world over th't for
the some perid of
1938. Despite the almost ccmplcte stopping
of

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
-31-
of Japanese exports of textiles tc the "yen-bloc", Japan's favcr-
able balence of trade with thct area amounted to approximately
Yen 187,000.000, exports being Yen 406,000,000 and imports
Yen 219,000,000. Iuring the first four months of the yoar,
exports cf taxtilos, in vclume nc velue, nd silk in volume
showed a sharp decline, while incre ses in expcrts were reported
of achiiery, lunber, focdstuffs nd miscellanecus items.
During the month of April, cummodity prices continued to rise
despite the numercus effcrts being mtde to check them. Raw silk
led the advance rising to over Yen 1,200 per bele. This repre-
sented a rise cf almost 50 per cent from the everage price in
December 1938, which stcud nt cround Yen 820 per bale. Retail
prices continued stronger with consequent adverse effucts on living
ccsts which, it is reported, rose scme 2 per cent during the month.
The stock market was slightly mcre active during the month, with
moderate advances in price of several classes of shares, notably
those cf shares cf corperaticns connected with the Goveriment's
expansion progrem in Manchuria nd Nerth Chinc; this boing een-
erally attributed to the ravoring of capital end tentative expansion
in view of the accelerated expansion plans for those arens. Money
in foreign-exchrnge r tesshowed no lteration from the month before.
It was announced at the ond f the month that an agreement
had been reached with France regarding the now trade conventicn,
in accordance with which, it is undurstcod, Japan will import frcm
France and her cclories the maximum amount of Yen .1,000,000 and
will

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.97)
…32-
will in turn export goods in the amcunt of Yen 70,000,000.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERIC.、 COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCI.L INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
No. Date
Sub ject
3794 April 1
Diplomatic visa report
5795 April 4
1938 Financial Arnual of Japan
3996 April 4
Army participatier in druz traffic.
3797 April 4
15th International Congress of Architects.
3798 April 5
Death of employee
3799 April 5
Publications for Library
3800 April 5
Employment of translator Fukuchi
3801 April 5
Remains cf former Ambassador Saito being trans-
ported to Yokohama by USS ASTORIA.
3802 April 5
Japanese bombing of American property in China.
3803 April 5
American property losses: Scandinavian Alliance
Mission, Pingliang, Kansu, and Sian, Shensi.
5804 April 5
merican property losses: Free Methodist Mission
Chengchow.
3805 April 5
British claims against Japanese Government for
property losses in China.
3806 April 6
Japanese interference with American preperty in
China: China Foreign Trade Cerporation, Shoighai.
5807 April 6
Japarese expropriation of British owned property
at Point Island, Shanghai.
3808 April 6
74th Sessicn of the Japanese Diet.
3809 April 7
American property losses: China Inland Mission,
Kuling.
3810 Apri1 8
French-Japanese relaticns: Japanese occupation of
Spratley Islanas.
3811 April 8
Diplomatic vise report.
3912 April 10
Fur trade restrictions in North China.
3813 April 7
merican property losses: Covenant Missicn Society,
Kianglin.
5814 April 8
Reorganization of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry.
V3315 April 11
Apnointmeit of full-time Minister for Oversens
Afr irs  Minieter of Communications.
3816 April 11
Amoric  pruyerty Losses: American Church Nission.
Changs!a.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
No. Dato
Subject
3842 April 26 Press reaction tc the President's message to the
German Chanoellor.
3843 Apri1 26 Return of ashes of Ambassadcr Saito to Japan o t
USS ASTORIA.
3944 April 21
Japanese mission to the marriage ceremonies of
Crown Prince Mohammed Reza of Iran.
3345 ∴pril 27
Japanese occupation of Spratley Islands
3846 April 27
Embnrgo on exportaticn of shoep and slink wool .
hemp from North China: British representations.
3847 Apri1 27
British clsims against the Japanese Government for
property lcsses in China.
3848 April 27
Tnx discrimineticn against British tcbacco company
in North China.
3849 4pril 27
North China Trede Restrictions.
3850 April 27
Japenase violction of British territorial waters
at Hong Kong.
Tranrtittinen TOkYo NICHI NICHI reporting interview
3851 Apr11 27
with Roy W. Howard.
3852
April 27 Miss Marion Glaeser, clork.
3353
April 27 Andersen Meyer and Company, etc.
3854
April 28 Bank of Japan publiceticns
3855 April 28
Maps for the librory.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
No.Date
Subject
3ol7 April 1l British reprasentotions regarding Japenese viol.-
tion of British interests in Chinese Railweys.
3818 Apr11 11
Japanese interference with Intornnticnal Export Co.
Tientsin (British egg exporting Company).
3819
April 11
American Property Losses: P.S. Erricson, Shanghai
3820
April 12
American Property Lossos: O.E. Vongehr, Wenhsin
3821
April 12
American Proporty Losses: J.W. Parsons, Nnking
3822
April 12
American Property Losses: American Presbyterian
Mission, Mancheng
3823 April 12
Quarterly report of personnel residing in Govern-
ment-ownod buildings.
3824
April 12
American aircraft enginoers in Japen:
3825
April 12
Aliens' entry, sojcurn and departure.
3826
April 12
Report - March 1939
3827
April 13
Plans for economic exploitation of North and Centr
Chine by Jepan.
3828
April 13
Amorican property losses: Presbyterian Missicn, N,
Hengyang.
3829
April 13
Sovict-Japaneso relations.
3830
April 14
Narcctic drug traffic in cccupied arens of China.
3831
April 15
Diplomatic visa roport.
3832
April 18
1939 World Automotive Engircering Congress.
3833
April 18
Bock for Departmcnt Library (ECONOMIC STRENGTH OF
JAP:N).
3834
April 19
Imoricon propurty losses: American Catholic Mission.
Yingtan.
3835
April 20
Law for protection of secrets of resources for
militcry use.
3836
April 19
Trnnsmission of certificnte of American share of
sealskins taken on Robben Island during 1938.
3837
April 21
Transmission of address of mbassader.
3838
April 21
North Chinc Economic Mission.
3839
April 22
Diplomatic vise report.
3840
April 22
Home leave f Duncen James Laing.
3941
April 26
Transmission of address of imbassador.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams so:: to the Department
during April 1939
No.
Date
Subject
162
April 1, 2 p.m.
Dodge & Seymour: Concerning tro: 
of capital to Japan.
163
1r:1 4, 11 a.m.
Reguisitions
164
April 4, 7 p.m.
Soviet-Jananese relations: fishe
165
April 5, 3 p.m.
epan. gold shipment
166
April 5, 4 p.m.
Jepanese interference with China
Foreign Trade Corporation, Shanghai
167 Apri1 6, 4 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Spratley
Islands
168 Apri1 6, 7 p.m.
USS ASTORIA:
Entertainment in Jape
169
April 7, 4 p.m.
China-Japan:
reported peace
negotiations
170 Apri1 8, 3 p.m.
Japanese interference with fur
trade in North China.
171 Apri1 9, 2 p.m.
USS ASTORIA: Suggested radio
conversation regarding visit.
172
April 9, 3 p.m.
USS ASTORIA: Entertainment in Japan
173
April 11, 11 a.m.
Contingent expenses: telegram
ellotment.
174
April 11, 1 p.m.
Recognition of Franco Government
in Spain by U.S.
175 Apri1 12, 1 p.m.
Rumored Ford agreement with
Manchuria Heavy Industries
Development Company.
176
April 14, 11 a.m.
Americen President Lines:
excnange lifficulties.
177
April 14, 8 p.m.
Trade restrictions in North Chine.
178
April 15, 10 a.m.
Eritish representations regarding
foreign shipping on the Yangtze.
179
April 17, 3 p.m.
Japanese occupation of Spratley Is.
180
April 17, 5 p.m.
Possible good-will visit of
Jananese naval vessel to U.S.
181 Apri1 18, 3 p m.
USS ASPOKIA : Visit bringing ashes
of former Aabassador Saito to Japan

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
 2.
No.
Date
sublect
182
April 18, 5 p.m.
Tuners] of former Ambassaacr Sa uc
183
April 18, 6 p.m.
President's message to Hitier in
Musgclini.
Press reection.
164
April 19 2 pa
Visit to Japan of USS GOLD STAR
185
April 19, 3 p.m
Frasident's mesage to hitier ano
Mu-co ini.
possible similar mesra
to Japali.
186
April 19, 4 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Tapan
Alllance,
187
April 20, 11 a.m.
Emperor's message re USS ASTORIA
188
April 20, 3 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan:
Alliance,
189
April 20, 5 p.m.
Narcotics traffic in China.
190
April 20, 8 p.m.
Japanese naval operations in
South China seas.
191
April 20, 9 p.m.
Sending of gifts to U.S. in connec-
tion with visit of USS ASTORIA
192
April 20, 10 p.m.
Matsudaira's message to President
re visit of USS ASTORIA
193
April 21, 6 p.m.
Telephone operator.
194
April 22, 4 p.m.
Foreign shipping on the Yangtse.
195
April 24, 5 p.m.
Ford trucks for Dowa (Manchuria)
196
April 24, 7 p.m.
Enperor's message re visit of USS
ASTORIA
197
April 24, 9 p.m.
Japanese bombing of American propert
in China.
199
April 24, 10 p.m.
Cormany-Italy-Japan: Alliance
199
April 25, 10 a.m.
US: ASTCRIA:
Entertainment of
200
April 25, 1 p.m.
Requisitions.
201
Arril 26, 1 p.m.
USS ACTCRIA: Departure of
202
April 26, 2 p.m.
Japanese naval operations in South
China seas.
203
A ril 26, 9 p.m.
Rome-Berlin axis.
204
April 27, 11 a.m.
Personal for Aabassador
205
April 27, 5 p.m.
Japan: present policies and trends.
206
April 30, 5 p.m.
New currency at Shanghai.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 2, 1939
JB:
Tokyo's monthly report for May 1939
containe no fresh significant information.
Inaccurate treatment by the Japanese
press of matters relating to foreign interests
is indicated on page 6 where it 1s stated
that publioity was given in the press to
representations by the American and British
Ambassadors in regard to Japanese bombings
in China. The Embassy reports that the
prese denied statements that Chungking was
an undefended city, claiming it to be
strongly fortified; that Japanese planes
aimed at bombing military establishments
only; and that if foreign lives and property
were damaged as a result, such accidents were
unavoidable.
894.00 P.R./138
FE:Saly:HJN

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Division of
FAR EASTEHN AFFAIRS
V
AMERICAN EMBASSY
J251939
Tkyo, June 17, 1939.
ADVISER
Spartiment uf State
No. 3999.
1.33
994.00PP
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF COIDITTONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
TOE STATE
MONTH OF MAY, 1939.
4
(S)
12
LJ
H
OFFCE DE THE ACT
INRN
.5
1938
The Honorablo
DEPARTMENT OF STE
The Socretary of State,
687
894.00 P.R./138
Washington.
Sir:
With roforonce to tho Department's instruction No. 93
1/ of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herowith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
month of April, 1939.
Respectrully yours,
Eugene H. Dooman,
800
Chargó d'Affaires ad interim.
AUG 1 0 1939
JR:C
FILED
Enclaburo
Raport No. 152.
Copy to Imbassy, Peiping;
Mosoow;
Chungking
Consulate General, Shanghai
n
Mukdon
Harbin
Sooul
Consulate, Dairen
Kobe
Osaka
Commander-in-Chief of tho U.S. Asiatie Fleet.
In guimtuplioate to the Dopartment.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 1.00)
No. 152.
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF MAY, 1939.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEXANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a) International Settlement at Shanghai.........1,2,3,4
(b) Japanese Bombings of Chungking, Swatow, Ningpo,
an Fuchow.
4,5,6
(c) International Settlement at Kulangsu, Amoy.....6,7
(d) Japanese Bombing of American Property in
China - Recent Recrudescence of Bombing........7,8,9
(e) Further Representations Made by the Embassy
During the Month of May.
.9,10,11
(f) Departure of Mr. Grew on Leave of Absence......ll,12
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
.12,13,14,15:1
1. International Scttlement at Shanghai....12,13
2. Bombing of Chungking.
.13,14
3. International Settlement,Kulangsu, Amoy.14
4. Hua Hsing (China Development) Commercial
Bank
.14,15
Japanese Interference with British
Shipping in Chinese Waters.....
.15,16
6.
Other Representations Made by the British
Embassy During May.
16
(b) France.
16,17
1. Representations Made by the French Embassy. 16,17
(c) China.
17,18,19,2
21,22,23,2
1. Foreign Concessions.
17,18,19,2
2. Military Operations.
21,22,23
3. General Relations.
23,24
(d) Soviet Russia.
24,25
1. "Manchukuon-Outer Mongolian Border Clashes 24,25
(e) Greece....
25

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(f) General International Relations..........
25,26.27
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITINNS.
(a) Government Proclamations.
.27,28,29
1. National Spiritual Mobilization
Movoment.
.27
2. Commcdity Mobilization Plen.......
27,28,29
3. Governmont Regulations.
.30
(b) Political Parties.
.29,30
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
.30
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS........ 3O,31,32,33
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ALERICAN COMERCIAL IITERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing to report.
x.
MISC ELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) International Settlomont at Shanghai.
a8
At the requost of the Vico Ministor for Foreign Affairs
the Ambassador callod at tho Foreign Office on May 3 and re-
ceived from him an eide mómoire in which, in reply to the
Ambassador's reprosentations of Fobruary 27 in regard to
Japanose domands of the Municipal Council at Shanghai, viows
of the Japanese Government wcre presentod for changos in tho
administration of the Sottlement and for changes in the rela-
tion of tho Settloment with tho "new régimos that have come
into existence in Centrel China".
Tho principal foatures of these views as set forth in
the aide mómoire wero that: (a) tho administrative structure
and systems of the Settlemont were obsoloto and defoctivo and
that in this connection tho Land Regulations should be re-
vised; (b) the administrative machinory should be changed and
romodeled in the way of modifying the undemocratic system
whereby tho British have hold tho dominant position in the
affairs of the Settlement, and, in turn, increasing Japeneso
representation in the Municipal Council, increasing tho number
of Japanese in the police end other municipel bureaus, and re-
ducing the administrative expenditures end distributing them
more fairly smongst the different netional communitics;
(c) the Settlement authoritics should proctice close coopere-
tion with the "Special City Government of Groater Shonghai" --
which Government, it was asserted, hed assumed the responsi-
bility in the administrstion in the areas adjoining the
Settlement -- for the maintenance of peace and order and for
the safoguarding of genoral public welfare, and that from
this point of view, moreover, the position of the Chinese
Court

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Court of Justico in tho Sottlement should be immediatoly chars
and tho old City Govornment's land registries held in cuatody
by the Municipal Council should be spoodily restored; and
(a) the Settlemont authorities should thoroughly suppress
torrorism and anti-Japanoso propaganda and prevent tho use of
tho Settlomont as a baso for anti-Japaneso olemonts or for ele-
ments hostilo to tho now régimes in China.*
On the same dey, tho Vico Ministor for Foreign Affairs
also handed en aide mémoire on closely similer lines to the
British Ambessedor.
The Ambassador, on Mey 17, in conformity with the Dep:rt.
ment's instructions,** presented to the Foreign Offico en aide
mémoire in response to the Vice Minister's reprosentetions.
It was stated in this reply thet the United States Government
would be ready to become a party to friendly and orderly negotia
tions regarding any nacded revision in the Land Regulations of
tho International Settloment at Shanghai, but it felt that
conditions in the Shanghai areas were so fer from normal at
tho present time that there wes totelly lacking a basis for an
orderly settloment of the complicated problems involvod which
would be reasonably f ir to all concerned.
The note then took up the particuler points contained in
tho Vice Minister's oide mómoiro and prosonted the Amorican
Government's observetions thereon.
The viows of tho Unitod Stetos Governmont were then pre-
sentod in regard to the rdministration of the Settlomont. In
this connection roference was made to the efficiency and energy
with which the Settlemont authorities hed kept disorder and
lewlessnoss to a minimum and it was noted that they had boon
seriously
Embassy's telogram No. 213, May 4 end despatch 3866, May 5,19:
**
Department's telogram No. 161, May 12, 6 p.m., to Shenghai.

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
soriously handicapped in thoir offorts to this end by lawloss
aotivities in the areas contiguous to the International Settir.
mont and by rofusal on tho part of the Japanese military forec:
to return the Settlomont area lying north of Soochow Croek to
thoir effoctive control. Recognition of the actuel work being
done by tho Settlemont authoritios and the prompt restoration
of the northern arons of the Sottlemont were urged.
In conclusion tho opinion of tho United Statos was
again raiterated that tho revision of the Land Regulations
should await the dovelopment of moro stsble conditions; but
in regard to the edministretive practico in the Sottlemont th
United Strtes Govornment was confident that the Settlement
authoritios were preparod to continue their offorts towards
meoting ny ressonable roquests for further cdjustments.*
On May 12 the Department directed the Ambassador orally
to inform the Minister for Foreign Affeirs ot the earliest
moment that nccording to a press despatch received in Washing-
ton, a Jepenese spokesmen at Shanghei was reported to have
made remerks thet dey indiceting that Japen might occupy the
Internotional Settlemont at Shanghai. The Anbassador was then
mont
of tho Jepanese spokesmen at Shanghei might not have
boen accuretely r portod end that the American Government is
unable to believe that the views attributed to the spokosman
represont tho official views of the Japaneso Governmont; but
that the American Government would rogerd as unlawful and un-
werrantod and es n deliborato impeirment of rights and inter-
ests of tho United Stctes any usurpation by any Power of the
rights
* Embassy's despstch N o. 3918, Mey 25, 1939.

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
.4.
rights and duties of the Settlement authorities, and that i;
was the view of the American Covernment that any picb! ems win.c
had arisen in connection wioh tho Settlement could and shouin
be effected by orderly disru sion by and amongst the parties
concerned.
Mr. Grew, on the following morning, called on the
Foreign Minister, end read to hi: an oral statement setting
forth the Department's instructions. Mr. Arita replied thet
he had been unaware of the reported stateme t of the Japanes?
spokesman in Shanghai but he asked the Ambassedor to inform the
Socretary of State categorically that Jepan has no intention
whatever of occupying the International Settlement at
Shanghai.*
The reaction to the American and British replies wes or
of disappointment, it boing generelly considored that they
entirely rejected tho Jepanese proposols. The press odi-
toriels, efter merely mentioning in part the points reised by
the American and British Governments in their responses, held
that tho so-called rejections wero examples on the pert of the
United Statos and Great Britain of a leck of conception of
the prevailing situation in China in thst those Governments
were only trying to maintain the status quo at Shanghai, and
thet they were fsiling to cooperato with Japan in maintaining
pesce and order and in supprossing terrorism and eliminating
anti-Japanese activities.
(b) Japanoso Bombings of Chungking, Swatow, Ningpo,
and Fuchow.
The Dopartment in its tolegraphic instructions of May 8
roferred to the recent series of aerial bombings by Japancso
planes on Chungking, Swatow, Ningpo and Fuchow end to reports
received by tho American Government that destruction caused by
the
* Department's telogram No. 125, May 12; Embassy's "clogrsm
No. 222, May 13, and Embassy's despatch 3918, May 25, 1939.
**Dopartment's No. 119, May 8, 7 p.m.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
the Japanese air reids was confined almost entirely to civiliar
livos and civilian proporty and diroctod the Ambassador to
mako emphatic representations to tho Minister for Foreign
Affairs against tho indiscriminato bombings of civilian popula-
tions in those citios.
In accordance with these instructions tho Ambassador
called on the Foreign Minister on May ll and made omphatic oral
representetions in the mattor, basing his representations
primarily on humanitarian grounds involving the safety of non-
combatant civilian populations and on tho grounds of the serious
risks involved in jeopardizing the lives and proporty of
Amorican netionals both officiol: and privete. In his statement
Mr. Grow made roference to his provious most carnest and em-
phatic ropresentations with rospect to Japanese bombings on past
occasions of civilian populations in China and to the grave
dengers to which forcign diplometic establishmonts, personnel
and non-combatants were oxposed, as well as the serious effect
on Americen public opinion. He then said thet he could not
too cernestly impress upon tho Foreign Minister the serious
responsibility whidh devolves upon the authorities chsrged with
the guidence of Japan's foreign relations to r strain the mili-
tary forces responsible for these renewed indiscriminate bomb-
ings from a courso which, if continued, would inevitably
create a progrossively deplorable reaction in the United Stetes.
He added that bosides the humanitarian factor applying to non-
ombatants gonerelly there also existed the emphetic objection
of tho American Government to the jeopardizing of lives of its
own nationals which must inovitably ariso from such attacks;
and he rocalled tho repoated bombings of American property in
China. In conclusion ho appoaled to tho Foroign Ministor on
the basis of tho two grounds ho had outlinod to take such
effective

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
effective steps as would terminate the indisoriminate bombing
operations that were current in China.
Mr. Arita's comments on this statement were the usual
formula that every effort was being mede by the aviators to
avoid accidents when bombing military objectives but thet he
would convey Mr. Grew's representations both to the military
and naval authorities. In reply to the Ambassador's further
remarks emphasizing the risks of injuring foreign nationals
and of ceusing widespread casualties among the local popula-
tion involved in the wholesale and indiscriminate way that the
bombing was carried on, the Minister merely stated that such
bombing operations were part and parael of the Japanese mili-
tary oporations in China and that as soon as these hostilities
had ceased, the risks of which the Ambassador complained would
likewise cease.
Publicity was given in the press in Japan to the fact
that the American and British Ambassadors had made those rep-
resentations but the details of the protests wore not disclosed
in the newspaper reports. It was claimed in these reports
that the British and American Governments had asserted that
Chungking was an undefended city but this was denied with
tho statoments that Chungking was strongly fortified and that
Japanose plenes aimed at bombing military establishments only
and that if foreign lives and property wero damaged as a
result suchuaccidents wero unavoideble.
(c) International Sottlement at Kulangsu, Amoy.
In conformity with the Dopartment's instructions of May 1
and May 16 an oral inquiry was made of the Foreign Office by
the Embassy in rogerd to the Japanese Govornmant's intentions wi
respect to landing Japanese troops in the International Settle-
mont

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
-7
ment at Kulangsu, Amoy, and on May 18 an aide mómoiro on tn
subject was also prosontod. In these ropresentations, aio"
referenco was mado to roports of the landing on May 1l of
Japanose foroos in Kulangsu, to tho placing of machine gun
posts opposito the mainland, thus ondangoring tho lifo of
Amorican nationals in the Settlement, and to the demands mao
on the Municipal Council involving chango in tho administra-
tion of the Sottlement, the attontion of the Japanoso Govern-
mont was brought to the fact that any changes which it might
wish to have made in the Land Reguletions should be takon up
in accordence with tho proccduro provided for in those rogule-
tions, to which the Japaneso Government ves a party. There
were cited the pertinent sections of those roguletions that
provide that changes must be settled upon consultation by
the foreign consuls and upon confirmetion by the foreign rep-
resentatives in China and tho Chinese Government.
In reply to these inquiries the Foreign Minister inform-
ed the Ambassedor thet all but only epproximately 10 marines
to guard the Japanese Consulate would be withdrawn in a few
dsys.*
(a) Japanese Bombing of American Property in China -
Recent Recrudescence of Bombing.
It will be recallod that in viow of the persistent and
increasingly froquont instances of bombing by Jepanese planes
of property of American missions and commercial firms that
hed boen occurring in China, the Ambassedor, in accordance with
tho Dopartment's instructions, on March 30 made formal and
emphetic represontotions against these occurrences (Monthly
Roport for Merch). On May 17 a note wes received by the
Embessy from the Ministry of Forcign Affeirs in roply to the
Ambassedor's
*Embassy's telegram No. 233, Mey 18, end mbassy's despatch
No. 3916, My 24, 1939.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
..e-
Ambassedor's roprosontations. Tno substance of c note we:
statement to tho offoct that speoisl caro was being exorcis
by tho Jupaneso military forces in Chine for cvoiuing dumeg:
foreign property in Chine, purticularly churches, schonis,
hospitels, and other cultural ostablishments; that if any
damage was done to such institutions it aroso from unawoi
a
circumstanoes; that the sentiments of the Japanese Governmoni.
were those of groetost regrot ovor tho impression conveyed y
the note "that tho rosults of action by Japanose military
authorities in the field did not necossarily coincide with
tho wishes of tho central authorities"; that tho Jepancse
military and naval authorities had repeatedly caused their
forces in Chinc to exercise care with a viow to avoiding
unintontional damago to third party proporty, especially
culturel institutions; and that in viow of the American
Government's requost expressed in the noto under reference, t
Japanese Governmont enticipated that oven more effoctive stop..
would thereafter be taken from the point of view of respoctine
the proportics in China of third perties.*
There had becn during the month of April a noticcablo
absonco of reports of boabing of Americen property in China by
Jepaneso planos. (Sec monthly roport for April). After the
first of May, howovor, a now serios of thoso incidents took
place and tho Dopurtment roforring to tho reports of these
attacks directcd tho Embassy in its telogram of Mny 20 to make
vigorous writton ropresentations to the Forcign Ministry in
rogara
* Embassy's telogram No. 233, May 18, nd Embassy's dospetch
No. 3916, May 24, 1939.
**Embassy's telegrom No. 238, May 19; Embassy's dospatch
No. 3915, Moy 24, 1939.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
rogard to this rocrudosconce of bombing by Japanese militar?
of Amorican property.
These represontations woro mede on May 22 in a first
person note addrossod bv Mr. Doomen to the Foreign Ministor.
In this note ho montioned tho incidents that had been report-
ed since the first of Mey, among which were two missionery pro.
ties thet had boon previously bombed, one of which being the
Luthoran Brothern Mission at Tungpeh where on Octobor 24, 1938.
mombers of the Nyhus family had boon killed and woundod.
Ho stated that in viow of these incidents, of tho subsequent
ropresentations, and of the irprobability that the Japanose
military could have boen ignorant of the location of those
proporties, tho Amorican Governmont regarded theso new bombings
as espocially flagrent. Ho thon reforrod to tho statemont of t'
Foreign Minister in rogard to stops thet wore bcing takon by
the Jepenoso Govornment to avoid injury being dono to Amorican
proporty end, pointing out tho apparont indifferonce of the
Japenese military in Chine to Amorican intorests, roquosted
thct such mensures be promptly taken which would yield results
thet would werrant the allaying of anxioty of the Americen
Government on this score.*
(e) Further Reprosentations made by tho Embessy during
the Month of Mey.
In compliance with the Depertment's instruction, con-
corning the difficultics bcing expericnced by the Universel
Lecf Totecco Company ct Tsingtao, Shantung, Mr. Dooman ad-
dressed, on Moy 4, an informal communicotion to the Director
of the American Burenu of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs tak-
ing up the whole matter of the discriminations that tho
Jepeneso
* Embassy's telegram No.24l, May 22, end d espetch No. 3915,
May 24, 1939; Dopertment's 1nstruction No. 1693, March 18,
1939.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
-ic-
Japenese authoritios have boen plncing agsinst the oporctio..
of that company in Shentung Province. In his communicntion
he reforred to the numerous discussions over this case that
hcd takon placo betweon the Embassy and the Foreign Office
end reviewed the conditions ffacting tho operations of the
Compeny in Shentung. Ho rolated tho moesures - of pormits tr
procoed to the intcrior to buy tobacco, permits to ship and
export the tobacco, allotmonts for tho porcontago of the crop
to bo purchosed by the company, roquiromonts for tho purchase
of Foderel Rosorve Bank notos end restrictions on the transfor
of funds - undortekon by tho Japaneso military uthorities
which hed in offect restricted end obstructod in practicslly
evory wey the logitimate ectivitics of thet company in pur-
chasing end shipping tobacce from thet province.
It vill be recalled thet on April 2l represontations
were mede to the Fcreien Office in regord to the refusal of
Jepenose cuthorities in Chine to permit Mr. Appel nd Mrs.
Berntsen nd son to lcnd in Hankow. (Monthly report for April).
Subsequently the Embessy was notified that Lir. Appel had been
permitted to procecd to Hunkow*, but as up to Mey 22 no land-
ing permits hed boen issued to Mrs. Borntsen end her son, Mr.
Dooman that day egcin took up thoir caso in a letter to the
Director of tho American Bureau of the Foreign Office. On
Junc 1 tho Embessy was informod tit thoso two persons had
lso procoeded to Henkow on Mey 28.**
During tho month of Mey tho Embassy mede reprosenta-
tions to the Foreign Office concerning Amoricen proporty
lossos in China in tho following instgnces:
* Embassy's telegrom May 13, 11 c.m. to Shonghai.
**Embessy's tolegrem 254, Juno 1, 6 p.m., ond despetch 3919,
Juno 3, 1939.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
Jepaneso Censorship of Amorican Meil at Shanghai*
Japenose Destruction of Proporty of Tsinghua University
American Proporty Losses in China: Christicn and
Missionery Allicnco, Kweiping.
Claims for Amorican Property Losses in China:
Dr. Charlos L. Gillottc, Foochow.
American Proporty Lossos in China: American
Presbyterian Mission, Hoihow. Bombing report incorrect.
Amorican Property Losses in China: Nanking Theological
Seminary.
Bombing of Lutheron Brethorn Mission et Tangho, Honan.
Bombing of Luthorn Brothorn Mission at Tungpeh, Honan.
Bombing of Covenant Missionery Socioty, Kingmen, Hupeh.
Bombing of Methodist Episcopal Mission, Putien, Fukion.
Bombing of building owned by Mershall Field & Co.
Swatow
(f) Doparturo of Mr. Grew on Loave of Absence.
On May 19 tho Ambassador doparted for the United States
on loave of absonce, his first return on home leave in three
yerrs time. Mr. Grew's doperture wes made the subject of
editorizl and other comment in thc vernecular and local
English press end some noteworthy significance was attached to
it in regard to Japenese-American rolations. Expressions of
tribute end apprecieticn were voiced for Mr. Grew's efforts
for promoting perce and emity between Anerics and Japan. There-
after, in the verncculer press, stress wss generelly laid on
Mr. Grew's return to Washington in that it was expected that
it
* Those representetions were reported in the following desp tchc
which are listed in the same order as the above represontation
Nos. 3864, May 5; 3865, Mcy 5; 3870, May 8; 3873, May 8;
3889, May 10, 3890, May 10; 3915, May 24; 3915, May 24; 3922,
Mey 31; 3925, June 1; 3943, Juno 8, 1939.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
it would havo far-reaching offects on tho courso of Amorican
aotions with rogard to Fer Eastarn quostions.
Publioity wos given in tho press to tho fact that on
the day boforo his doparturo 'r. Grow hed hed a long ferewoli
interview with the Foreign Ministur.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(e) Groat Britein.
1. Intcrnational Sottloment, Shanghai.
On tho seme day thst thc Vice Minister for
Foreign Affcirs presontod en cide mómoire to Mr. Grew concorn-
ing tho affeirs of tho Intornational Sattloment at Shanghai,
4 similar communicntion was handed to the British Ambassador.
This communication was identical to thet prosented to tho
American Embcssy, oxcept with the addition of two paragrephs
roplying to the British Ambassador's rofaronco in his noto of
Fobruary 28 to torrorist gangs in tho "Shenghai City Govern-
mont Torritory" outsidc tho Municipel Council's jurisdiction.
In these peragrephs a statomont from the British noto was
quoted to tho offect that many difficultios which tho
Municipel uthorities had exporienced aroso from the fect that
torrorist gangs hed their heedquartors in the "City Govornmont"
torritory, that tho Municipcl Council hed rocuostod Jopnneso
cooperction in tho control of these gangs, but thet
Japenose cooper tion eppecred to have been used ns a political
bargcining counter. In reply, those allogations were summarily
dcnied and it wns contonded in turn thet the extensivo srea of
western Shrnghei was precticelly under the guard of British
troops and the effective control to be exorcisod by the
Jepanese euthorities or tho "City Govornment" was in practice
groatly

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
greatly restrioted.*
At tho same time as the aide mémoire from this Imbassy
was presonted to the Foreign Office in responso to the Viso
Minister's representations, an aido mémoire along similar
lines was also sent to the Japanese Government by the British
Embassy. **
2. Bombing of Chungking.
The British Embassy reccived roports from the British
authoritios in China that during an air raid on Chungking by
Japaneso planes on May 4, tho British Consulate thore was
damaged and some of the Chinese staff were killod and wounde?.
Sovoral representations were mede to tho Forcign Office strong?
protosting against this incident.
On May 12 the British Ambassador, under instructions
from his Government, presented to the Foreign Office an aide
mémoire similar to that of the American Ambassador delivered
the day before in regard to the general subject of indis-
criminate bombings of civilian populations at Chungking and
other cities in China. Besides setting forth the British views.
idontical to thoso of the American Government in regard to the
Japanese actions, it was also addod "that the presence in a
town of anti-aircraft battorios - although these were of
course logitimate objectives in themselves - did not of
itself mako that town as a whole a legitimate objective
nor justify its general or indiscriminate bombardment.
Tho aido mémoire was concluded with a statemont of tho focling
croused in Great Britain by the Japanese actions, of the harm-
ful
*Embassy's dospatch no. 3882, May 10, 1939.
**Embassy's despatch no. 3918, May 25, 1939.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
ful effeot being created by them in the relations between the
two countries* and the hope that most stringent instructions
would be issued to the Japanese forces to abstain from furtne!
such inhuman methods of warfare.
3. International Settlement, Kulangsu, Amoy.
In accordance with instructions from his Government,
the British Ambassador addressed a formal note to the Foreign
Minister informing the Japanese Government of the serious view
which Great Britain took of the forceful Japanese interference
with the international administration at Kulangsu, Amoy, and
requesting that the Japanese troops that had been landed be
withdrawn.
The following day a reply was received by the British
Embassy from the Foreign Office to these representations in
which it was declared that the landing in question was an
emergency measure taken to protect Japenese nationals and to
suppress anti-Japanese acts in the Settlement. The conten-
tion of the British Government that this kind of measure was
entirely without legal foundation, was denied. It was also
added that tho Japanese landing party had largely malized thoir
aim and were already effecting a gradual withdrawal*.*
4. Hua Hsing (China Dovelopment) Commercial Bank.
In a note dated May 12 addressed to the Foreign Min-
ister, the British Ambassador referred to articles in the
press in which intimations wore made that, with the support
of Japan, tho "Roformed Government of Nanking" might under-
take
Embassy's dospatch no. 3898, May 17, 1939.
**
Embassy's despatch no. 395l, Juno 9, 1939.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
take to establish the currency issued by the Hua Hsing
(Central Development) Commorcial Bank as a new currenoy
system for Central China and might initiate foreign trade
and exchange control measures in that area to enforce complete
compulsory circulation of the currency. He then stated that
if such intimations were substantiated they would load Great
Britain to regard the new bank with marked disfavor, and he
asked for early assurances that there were no foundations for
any such reports.
Nothing further in this connection occurred during
the month under review.*
5. Japanese Interforonce with British Shipping in
Chinese Waters.
The British Embassy addrossed several communications
to the Foreign Office during the month under review concern-
ing Japanese detentions of British ships in Chinese waters and
to general interference in those waters with British shipping
by the Japanese Navy. In these communications representations
were made in regard to the release of the S.S. "SAGRES" end its
cargo, which hed been seized by the Japanese authorities, ro-
moved to and held at a Japanese port, and its cargo confiscated
as belonging to the Chinese Government; in regard to inter-
ference by Japaneso authorities with British shipping in the
lower Yangtze River delta and in regard to the constant
stopping and inspection of British ships without any apparent
regard to the fact that many of these so detained were well
known
* Embassy's despatch no. 3951, June 9, 1939.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
mowm to the Japanese authoritios to be of English registry, and tha:
the same ship was often detainod a number of times. In this last
conneotion the opinion was expressed that the ships wero being stoppec.
not for flag verifioation but for tho purpose of inspocting the cargo:
end it was statcd that although the British Governmont had agreed
that a oertificate of registry might be verified, it could not ac-
quiesce to other examination of British vessels.*
6. Other Representations Made by the British Embassy during May.
Further representations were made by the British Embassy in re-
gard to the following subjects during the month of May:**
British Claims Resulting from Sino-Japanese Hostilities:
Death of British subject, Samchun.
Japanese Import Prohibitions on Cigarettes at Hankow
Currency Situation in North China: Japanose pickoting of
British Banks in Tsingtao and Chefoo.
British claims for Proporty Losses in China.
Japanese Interference with Foreign Shipping in China: British
Shipsinterned in Pearl River.
Japanese Discriminaticn against Foreign Shipping at Tsingtao.
British Claims for Proporty Losses in China.
Tax Discrimination Against Subsidiary of B.A.T. Company in N.Chir
Attack by Jepanose Plenes on H.M.S. SANDPIPER, October 24,1938.
British Clcims for Property Losses in China.
Japenese Violction of British Interosts in Peking-Tientsin Ry.
Tax Discrimination Ageinst Subsidiary of B.A.T.Co. in N. China.
Japanese Violation of British Interests in Tientsin-Pukow Ry
(b) France.
1. Reprosentetions Made by the French Embassy.
Following the Americen and British represontations in
ragard to the bombing by Japcnese planes of Chungking the
French
These representations woro reportod in the following dospatohes
which are listed in the same order as tho abovo roprosentations:
Nos. 3860, May 4; 3861, May 4; 3862, May 5; 3871, May 8; 3877, May 9,
3923, Jun0 1; 3884, May 10; 3885, Mey 10; 3907, May 22; 3908,May 22;
3909, May 22; 3941, June 8; 3944, June 8; 3951, June 9; 3945, June 8,
1939.
Embassy's despatches 3874, May 11 and 3949, June 9, 1939.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
Frenoh Ambassador on May 16 also protostod this action in
connootion with its having ondangered the Frenoh proporties
in that city.*
Tho Fronch Ambessedor on May 22 addrossod a note to
the Foroign Minister in which he called attontion to the
fact that as tho Fronch Govornment was representod in the
consuler corps, under which thc International Settlement at
Shanghai was controlled, his Government could not be dsinter-
ested in the fete of the Settloment. He had, thorefore, under
instructions from his Govornment, to refer to the Japanose
representations made to the British and American Governments
in rogerd to the affeirs of tho Internetional Settlement and
to state thet the Fronch Governmont entirely supported the
position takon in the promises by the other two governments
ooncorned.**
On May 1l tho Fronch Ambassador also made roprosenta-
tions in rogard to tho intervention of Japanese naval forces
et Kulengsu.***
(c) China.
1. Foroign Concessions.
793.90
On Mey 3rd the Vico Ministor for Foreign Affaire pre-
sonted to the Amorican and British Ambassadors idonticel aido
mémoiros setting forth, as have been described in a foregoing
section of this report, the Japenose Government's reprosenta-
tions in regord to tho affcirs of the International Settlement
ct Shanghei. Full publicity was given to the represontations
in the Japcnese press, and as wcs to be oxpected unanimous ap-
proval end support were given to tho position taken by tho
Government.
Embassy s dospatch no. 3899, May 17, 1939.
**
Embassy's dospatch no. 3918, May 25, 1939.
***
Embassy's despatch no. 3916, May 25, 1939.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
Government. In discussing the foatures of the eide mémoiros,
it was strossod in the press editorials that the causes for
this issue in regcrd to the Intornational Sottlomont at
Shonghai: as woll as tho other foroign sottlomonts and con-
cessions in China, woro (1) tho complaint, which had often
been mado in tho past, that tho concessions had failed, either
deliberately or through incompotency,in suppressing terrorism
and enti-Japenose activities within thoir confines, (2) tho
complaint, moro rocently oxprossod,that Jopen end Jepanese in-
terosts wore not adequately represonted in their administra-
tions and in directing their affeirs, and (3) that the ad-
ministrctions were feiling to coopercte, politically, eco-
nomicelly and financiolly, with the new régimes set up in
Japanese occupied torritory.
Mr. Yoshiaki Miura, Jepeneso Consul Generol at Shanghai
came to Japan on May 14 and in a pross interviow given upon
his crrival, is reported to havo said,in rogerd to Japanese
intentions for denling with the situation t Shanghai, that
through steps proposed by the Jepanoso Government towards
changing the prosent status of Shanghai International Sottle-
ment, Jepan should do away with the situction whereby China
has beon on a semi-colonirl standing as far as the Western
Powers were concernod. Before his return tc Shenghai he issued
a further statomont in which ho roportodly stated that he
would continue to cerry on negoti tions rogerding the Settle-
ment edministration in a rccsoneblo and friendly manner,
"but that if tho Powers refuso to nogotiato on tho ontire
scope of the problems, it would meen thrt the best medium
for n amiccblo solution of the International Sottlement
question would be lost."
According

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
According to the various articles in the press Mr.
Miura was given by the Foreign Office new instruotions for
renewed negotiations for reorganization of the Shanghai
International Settlement.
It wes also eported that three
conceivable methods were envisaged by the Japanese Government
for the settlement of the solution there: the first was to
restore the concessions to a new Centrel Government in China
which would be esteblished et a future date; the second,
representing a tomporizing solution pending the future res-
toration of the concessions to a new Central Govornment, was
to revise the land regulations in the light of the present
dey situetion, tho courso to be folloved in doing this being
embolied in Japan's representetions on May 3 to the British
end Americen Governmenments; tho third was to meintein the
status guo of the concessions through the cooperation of the
treaty Povers with Japen. This l&st mothod it wes understood
would involve the suppression of terrorism, the control of
cti-Jip nese cctivities, propagonda cnd publications, the
prohibition of the displ:y of the Kuomintang flags, and the
cooperation of the administrations with the local Chinese rógimc
Reports appeared in the press in Jepan during the
month under review that the refusal of the Tientsin British auth
orities to turn over to tho local Jepanese authorities four
persons whom they were holding, suspected of murdoring a
Chinese "puppet" govornment official in April, was aggrevating
tho reletionship between tho Japnnese and British at that
city. It was steted thet the Jepanose military there had
mede it quite clerr thet they intended to insist on the
surrender of the four men. However, no officiel stetements
were

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
-20
were made in the matter in Jepen.
On May ll Japanese marines wera landed in the Inter-
nationel Settlement at Kulangsu. Amoy. efter the murder of the
"pro-Jepaneso" president of the Amoy Chamhor of Commerce, for
the announced purpose of arresting the culprits and as a
measure of self-defense to protect Japanose netionels. This
action was followed on May l4 by five demands for drastic
chenges of the Sottlement Administration being mede on the
Kulangsu Municipal Council by tho Japancse Consul Goncral.
On May 19 a statement wes issued by tho Foreign Office that
no reason wes seen for tho landing of the British,American
and Fronch forces two days beforo, it being clcimed thet the
lives end property of other nationals hed not beon endengered
by the Jepnnese action. A ststement was made on May 25 by the
spokesmen of the Navy in Japen that the ection by the third
Powers had cggrsv ted the situation at Kulangsu end that in
particuler the cttitude of the Municipal Council of the Settle-
ment had suddenly changed from a ccnciliatory cnd coo erative
one to one of non-cooperstion with the Japunose authorities,
and that therefore the situation could not warrant the with-
drewal of Japeneso marines for some time.*
On May 24 the spokesmen of the Foreign Offico in ε
stct emont made concerning Jepanese rights in relation to the
concessions in Chine was reported to heve declared that althougr
the edministrtion of tho foreign settlements was in foreign
hands, Chinese sovereignty still extended over these settle-
ments; that as it wes the Japenese aim in Chine to control
Chineso sovereignty, this sovereignty might also be controlled
in
* Embassy's dospatch no. 3937, Juno 7, 1939.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
8
-21-
in the settlements; that Japan had rights in the administra-
tion o? the International Settlements and that she might
therefore resort to force to safeguard these rights, which
should be legally recognized; and that the present hostilities
in China should not be permitted to constitute a reason for
delay in Japan's initiating administrative reforms in those
areas.
In the press campaign that appeared over the whole
issue of the foreign concessions,besides their being labelled
as "hot-beds of anti-Japanese agitation", it was als) claimed
that there were further reasons for Japan not permitting them
to continue in their present status. It was held that the
Japanese armies had achieved'brilliant successes in China but
that the victories were being negated by the situation existin
in the concessions in that the concessions were giving assist-
ance to tho Chiang Kai-shek régime, were bolstering up Chinese
resistance to Japan, and were genorally restricting the attain-
ment of Japan's objectives in China. The solution of the
issue, according to the press, was a demand freely voiced
even by the formerly most conservative newspapers, that
either the concessions be ended once and for all or that
their control bo turned over to Japan.
2. Militery Operations.
The principal Japanese military activity during the
month of May was a campaign involving rather large forces,
said to number four or five divisions, in the Han River area
of north central Hupeh, northwest from a line between Sinyang
and Anlu. The operation was evidently made to clear the Tahung
and

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
-82-
and Tapioh mountain rangos of a concontration of Chinese
forces claimed by tho Japaneso to havo amounted to twenty-six
divisions. Three main drives wero made to encircle the Chinese
army; one up the Han River; one west from Sinyang on tho Peip-
ing-Hankow Railway; and another uriving northwost between the
first two. Those three columns were reportod to have con-
verged by the middle of the month noer Sisintsi in the plains
north of the Tapieh Mounteins. Operations were then continued
in rounding up Chinese units in the erea thet had been on-
circled and in the capturing of the towns of Tseoyang and
Suihsien. Although the Japanese claimed that the Chinese
forces had suffered some 15,o00 cesualties, it eppeared that
the mein bodies of the Chinese troops managed to escape through
tho Japanese cordon to the west.
Further fighting was reported to have occurred in north-
crn, central end southern Shansi and to have continued through-
out the month. In the Wutaishen Mountains in central Shansi,
an opcration was roportodly taken against an estimated 30,000
Chinese troops, but little was rovealed as to the result of
this campaign; in southern Shansi various campaigns were
launched which apparently by tho end of the month had still
not succeeded in cleering the region of Chinese troops.
Furthor fighting against regular Chineso forces report-
edly occurred south and west of Henkow and around Nenchang, whi
encounters with guerrille forces were roported in many sections
of the occupied territory, particularly in Shontung. Kiangsu,
and Hopci provinces.
Japanese

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
Japanese aerial operations were very intensively car-
ried on during the month and besides attacks made on Chinese
troops concentrations and routes of communication, frequent
and large-scale raids were made, apparently for demoralizing
and terrorizing purposes, on coastal and interior cities of
China. Some half-dozen raids were made on Chungking in mass
flights. It was reported that over 1,ooo Japanese planes made
more than 250 raids in the first fifteen days of the month,
during which over 250 tons of bombs were dropped. It was also
announced by the navy spokesmen that the Japanese fighting
forces would not desist from cerrying on the air raids in
China until the Chiang Kai-shek régime was destroyed.
3. General Relations.
Several reports appeared in Japan of rumors that a
movement for peace in China wes gaining strength end the
reported efforts of "eng Ching Wei to this end were given
much prominence in the locel newspapers. In this connection
the statement was again reiterated that only t'rough direct
negotiation could a conclusion of the hostilities be reached
and that Jepan would brook no interference or mediation by
third Powers.
In regard to Japan's financial and economic relations
with the occupied aroa of China, some uneasiness was apparent-
ly felt in this country over the slow progress made in carry-
ing out her programs in these fielas. The Finance Minister
issued a statoment on May 24 to reassure the country that the
new North China curroncy was sound and stated thet the de-
preciated valuo of tho Foderal Reserve banknotes as against
the ald Chinese currency was only temporary and would be
remedied

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
remedied as time went on. The Japan Chamber of Commeroe at the
beginning of the month prosented a memorial to the government
urging that a revision of the Chine tariff schedule be made to
facilitats the exchange of goods between Japan and China and
also urging that the new currency in China be put on a sound
basis. It was also announced at the ond of the month that the
government was believed to be contemplating tho taking of
strong measures to control and develop Japanese trade with
China, and that by extending the export control system over
all North China trade it would be able to eliminato Chinese
netional currency from North China on the ono hand and to
replenish the foreign exchange funds of the Federal Reserve
Bank on the other.
(a) Soviet Russia.
1. "Manchukuo" Outer Mongolia Border Clashes.
A serios of clashos wore reported to have occurred
from the middle to tho end of the month retweon Outer Mongolian
and "Manchukuo" troops along the borders of those two districts
in the neighborhood of the Nomonhan and Helaha Rivers near
Leke Buir (Bornor). Outer Mongolien troops were seid to have
crossed the frontier into "Manchukuo" territory on a number of
occesions. It wes stated that those troops were well cquipped
with Russian militery supplies, including a large forcc of war
planes. Reinforcements of Jcpenese-"Manchukuo" troops were
brought up and it was claimed that they, by the ond of the
month, had driven the invading forces out of "Manchukuo" terri-
tory and that in aerial battles Japanese planos brought down a
great many Russian planes.
Tho local Japenese press gave much spaco to this fight-
ing and it was stated that the cleshes roprosented another such
incident es the Changkufong affcir last summer . It was hold
that

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
that this inoident represented a further demonstration of the
Soviet aim to assist the Chiang Kai-shek régime and to holp
to exhaust Japan but that this time Russia had disguised its
practices by using Outer Mongolia to harass Japan through
"Manchukuo" while thus avoiding having a frontal clash hersel
with this country.
(e) Greece.
Mr. Athanase G. Politis arrived in Tokyo at the beginning
of the month of May to reopen the Greek Legation here. Formal
diplomatic relations had been established between Japan and
Greece in 1918 but no Greek Minister has beon in Japan since
1923 and from then till now the affairs of that country have
been handled by tho Danish Legation.
(f) Gonoral Intornational Rclations.
The spokesman of the Foreign Offico on May 1 reloased
for publication a statement in endorsement of the position taker
by Chancellor Hitler in the lattor's spocch to the German
Roich on April 29. Among tho remarks made in this statement
he was quoted as saying that: Japan entirely associated
itself with Chancellor Hitler's donial of the rights of the
United Statos and Great Britain to intorfere in international
affairs, of which ho cited as examples British policy in Pales-
tine and American policy in Central and South America; two or
threo countries had tried to regulato the world's affairs by
a procoss of contralization of authority; but "the invisiblo
supreme spirit of the universe now has ordorod us to estab-
lish rogional eutonomios in world polities"; and Japan was
attompting to omancipato China from tho semi-colonial status
to which those powers had roduced it, mako it a constituont
mamber of tho East Asiatic bloc and reserve Asia for tho
Asiatics.*
DURING
Embassy's dospatch no. 3863, Mey 10, 1939.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
During a conforence of tho prefootural governors hold
in early May the Prime Minister roportedly declarod that the
China Affair was so olosely roleted to the world situation
that it could not be settled indopondently of tho conditions
of the world and that this wes particularly so in regerd to
the sottlement of economic issues. At the semo conference the
Wer Minister is reported to havo stated thet dospite success-
ful defense on the bettlefield, the Chiang Kai-shek régime
was still stubbornly mainteining its resistance to Japan due
to the encouregement of Russic, Groat Britain and Brance, and
the Foreign Minister reportedly stated that Japen must strength-
en tho anti-Comintorn pact so as to cope with the tense inter-
national situation but from "her own independent standpoint".*
Following the innumerable conferences thet had boen
held on the subjoct, it was announced in tho press that on
May 26 decision had beon reached by the Government in regard
to the position Japan would tako toward tho European situation.
No disclosuro was mado of whet the policy was to be.
It was surgested in the editorials in regard to the
docision taken by the Japanese Government concerning the
Europeen situstion that it wes thet of Jepen pursuing hor
own aims es fer as possible by herself in China without becom-
ing directly involved in Europeen affairs. Should, however, a
defensivo alliance be entered into botween Great Britain and
Russia, Japan could not viow it with unconcorn and might
have to change her position. In this connection it was re-
portod in tho pross on May 29 that tho Japanese Ambassadors
at London and Moscow had beon instructed to inform tho British
and Soviot Governments that whethor or not any proposed
arrangomont botween them applied to the Far East, tho Japanese
Government
*Embassy s despatch no. 3881, Mey 10, 1939.

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
-27
Government would take e grave view of it and that it woula
take appropriate measures in tho light of tho arrangomonis
as finally decidod upon.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Governmont Proclomations.
1. National Spiritual Mobilization Movomont.
It will bo recallod that shortly aftor tho Sino-
Japanoso hostilitios began in China in 1937, in ordor to
carry on organized propeganda work in the country for Jepan's
cause in the China Incident, a so-called Central Leaguo of
Ncticnel Spiritual Mobilization wes crented. Dissatisfaction
shortly appeored thereafter in many querters against this
progrom, perticula4ly because the Lengue hed no official
status. Fin lly, in the first pert of tho current year steps
wore tckon to roviso the progrum.
In April a plan was approved by the Government to carry
out a successful program of national spiritual mobilization.
The principal features of the plan were in effect exhortations
to the Japanese public to cooperate in every way with the
Government. Another plan announced on May 3 called on the
people to live simple lives, to use commodities economically,
to utilize vacant and waste lands, to practice economy of
consumption, to restore waste materials, to save their earn-
ings and collect gold.*
2. Commodity Mobilization Plan.
There will be recalled, as discussed in previous
reports of the Embassy, the various steps that have elready
been
* Embassy's dospatch No. 3905, May 20, 1939.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
been taken in Japan towards the control and: egimentation
of the economic life of Japan. A further measure towards
this eni, particularly in supplemonting plans for the reorgani
zation of the Ministry of Commerco and Industry (see monthly
report for April) and the national spiritual mobilization
movement, was tho Commodity Mobilization Plan for tho year
1939, which was adopted by tho Cabinot on May 26. Only
tho bare outlino of tho plan was released to tho pross, the
details apparontly purposcly being kopt entirely secret.
According to the outlino of the plan, it involved
measuros to be undertaken to attain tho following aims: ex-
pansion of productive power; promotion of foroign trade and
increaso of imports; aid to "Manchukuo" and China to securo
the pacificetion of those conntries and to devolop their
rosourccs; economy im dsily neccssities; distribution of
matorials by which commodities wero to bo divided into six
cetegorios: munitions, government necds, materials for
expension of production, exports, yon bloc needs, and domestic
needs, - tho precedence of supply meteriels for these cate-
gorios being given in the order named; rogulation of consumptic
mobilization of communications and olectric power.
Tho plan was formulatod, according to Mr. Katsuo Aoki,
hoad of the Cebinet Planning Board, with the basic idoa in
mind of sottling tho China incident and carrying out Japan's
aims in East Asia, but the imnodiato objoctives of the plan
wero tho roplacomont of munitions stocks, porfoction of na-
tional defenso, promotion of foroign trade, and the develop-
ment

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
mont of "Manohukuo" and China. Mr. Aoki also reportedly
stated that as the materials used in carrying out these cb-
jeotives were limited, the people would have to get along with
less crmmcdities, including daily necessities.
(b) Political Parties.
It will be recalled (Monthly Report for April) that
following the close of the Diet session this year a bitter
controversy arose in the Seiyukai between various factions of
that party over the election of a new president and that the
faction known as the "Renovetion League" had selected Mr.
Chikuhei Nakejima as presidont. The split in tho party ranks
was not healed during Mey and on May 20 tho other major faction
or so-callcd "Orthodox Leaguo" selectod Mr. Fusanosuke Kuhara
as president and issuod an announcemont that ho was the roal
hoad of tho party.
While this discussion was going on in the Soiyukai,
the Minsoito, the other major party in Japan roportodly was
underteking, during the month under review, studies by party
committees of the probable effects that the Governmont
planned economy policy will heve on the country. It was re-
ported that these studics had boen started to find a program
for the party to follow by which tho changing economic struc-
turo could be met with social roforms in Japan that would pre-
vent the possibility of future suppression of individual ac-
tivity as woll as undoubtedly tho extinction of Japanese politi-
cal party ectivitios.
No announcement was mado by tho ond of the month of any
decisions having boon arrivod at by tho committoos.

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
3. Govornment Regulations.
Notices appeared in the press towards the end of tho
month that there had boen going on in tho country a good ioal
of profiteoring and undorcovor doals in violation of tho spirit
as well as in many cascs of the provisions of the nationel
laws for the control of the amounts and prices of materials
sales. It was announced on May 30 by the Justico Minister
Shiono that stricter measuros would be takon to put an end
to these violations end that sovero punishmont would be
meted out to persons found engaged in such practiccs.
V'. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Government bonds in the amount of Yen 214,000,000 wero
44.51
issued during the month. In connection with finding a market
for governmont bond issues, the Finance Ministry is roported
to have stated that Japan doos not intend to rosort to enforood
bond sales. Ho roferrod to oxemplos of such practico in
Germany and Italy which ho considorod did not meot with
satisfactory results and he declred that he did not think that
compulsory absorption of bonds to meet the Govornmont's finan-
cial nceds wes possible.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIOS.*
Business generelly was slack during May. The continucd
tensenoss of the situation in Europe and the renewed complica-
tions in connection with the international settlemonts in China
exerted a restraining influence on trede. But the mejor handi-
cap to improved businoss transactions arose from the moasures
substituted by the Govornment for gonorel control of the oconomi
lifo of the country. Tho numorous trado regulations in forco ha
tendod to raise pricos and have addod groatly to merchandise
costs by making it more difficult for businoss concorns to offoc
Propared with the assistance of tho office of the Comnercial
Attaché.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
-31-
readjustmonts required by tho changing situation under which thoy
ust oporate.
New oconomio control moasuros enforced during the month includ-
ed en ordinanoe promulgated on May 20 and offoctive May 25, fix-
ing the maximum salo price of all kinds of woollon yern; & decree
issued on May 20 providing for compulsory registretion of all pri-
vetely owned gold erticlos oxcopting articles of minor intrinsic
value; end an order issuod by tho Ministry of Commerco and Industry
on May 9 to automobile assembly plants and seles companies requiring
ministerial epproval of cutomobile scles, prices and buyers.
Commodity prices continued to rise, avorego wholesale prices
increasing by .6 per cont and averago retail prices by almost 2.0
per cent over those for April. Fuel, clothing, construction and mis.
cellaneous commodities led the general rise in prices. The price
of raw silk continued at a level of over y 1,200 per bale. Shortage
of supply was the principcl factor in this situation, but specula-
tion, rumors of Government control, increase in the cost of pro-
duction wore contributory influoncos. It was ostimated that thero
would bo an incrense of 17 per cent in the cost of the spring cocoon
output, whilo it was announced by tho Ministry of Agriculture and
Forostry that as of the end of May the output in the onrly crop dis-
tricts of Jepen would be reduced by 7.2 por cent in comperison with
thet for tho 1938 seeson nd that tho ontire spring crop would
likely show a decrease from thet of lnst year.
Besides the munitions and other interrelated wartimo industries
which continued in an undiminished boom, the shipbuilding industry
was very active during the menth. It wes reported that in rogard
only to ships of more then looo tons ecch, total tonnage on the plan-
ning boerds nnd in the yards on May 31 was 1,023,810 tons deadweight
fcr 201 vessels. This ropresented an increase of 88,500 tons and 28
ships over thet on April 30.
The

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
Tho stook markot was extromely dull in May, although some ac-
tivity prevailed in shares o. small and medium sizod concerns
whioh bogen to show incroased profits due to tho munitions boom.
Tho monoy merkot remained easy. A weak undortone prevailed in the
foroign exchange markot but ratos had undorgono few chenges and the
yen-doller quotations woro unchengod.
Foroign trado showed quite a markod improvoment ovor the prev-
ious month while in rogard to the corrosponding period in 1938
tho value of exports were incrensed and the value of imports marked-
ly decroased. The figures given for the foreign trade for Mey were
exports Yon 239,832,000 and imports Yen 198,118,000, showing 
favorable balance of exports over imports of Yen 41,714,000 which
amount reduced the unfavorable balance for the year so far to an ex-
cess of imports ovor exports of only Yen 20,807,000.
Infurther analyzing tho foroign trede of Japan for Mey, it was
noted that the tendency of increased exports to the eo-called
"yen-bloc" of Manchuria, Kwantung ond China continuod. Thus, ox-
ports of Yen 167,544,000 or approximetoly two-thirds of the total
oxports went to tho "yen bloc" and to Hongkong during May. On tho
other hand imports valucd ct Yen 68,514,000 or only cpproximately
1/3 of the total imports for the n nth came from that croa. These
figures compared with exports of Yon 98,919,000 ond imports of
Yen 57, 797,000 with the "yen bloc" and Hong kong for the samo month
of 1938.
Tho unfavoreble balanco of trade of Japan with tho rost
of the world for Mry of this year was Yen 58,306, 000.
It was announced during the month that additional measures were
being considered to those clrcady cmployed, such as the "import-
export link system", by the Government to increeso Jepen's expert
trado

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
trade . Among those, was understood to be the invocction of Anticl?
8 of the Netional Mobilization Law whereby spociol machinery is to
be established to collect tho commoditios to be exported and con-
currently to limit their distribution end sales domestically.
Another means suggested was tho establishment of & separnte export
control organization for oach important commodity which would regula.
its export quantities and prices. At the same tino, to increaso the
soope of commodities for export, it was disclosed that the fields of
agricultural, forestry and marine products would be exploited and
exports of those products pushod together with o ther Japanese goods
the oxportation of which has elroady been stressed. In this con-
nection it wes stated that buttor, milk, oggs, tinnod fish and other
foodstuffs now consuned at homo in l arge quentities would bo romoved
to an eppreciablo extont from the donestic market and sold abrond.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMTERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATOHES SENT TO THE DEPARTENT
Subject
3856
May 1
Diplomstio Visa Report.
3857
Muy 2
Fifteenth International Congress of Architccts.
3858
May 2
Annual Convention of the Association of Mili-
tary Surgeons of the United States.
3859
May 3
Importation of Rayon Pulp into Japan.
3860
May 4
British Claims against the Japanese Gover!-
ment Resulting from Sino-Japanese Hostilitles
1937-1939: Death of Brit1sh Subject, Shamcl: 1.
3861
May 4
Japanese Import Prohibition on Cigarettes at
Hantow: British Representations.
3862
May 5
Currency Situation in North China: Japanese
Picketing of British Banks in Tsingtao and
Chefoo.
✓ 3863
May 10
Foreign Office Spokesman's Statement of May 1,
1939.
3864
May 5
Japanese Censorship of American Mail at
Shenghai.
3865
May 5
Jepanese Destruotion of Property of Tsinghua
University.
3866
May 5
Internationsl Settlement at Shanghai.
3867
May 6
Diplometic Visa Report.
3868
May 6
Transmission of Translation of Ordinence
Relating to Alien's Entry, Sojourn, and
Deperture.
3369
May 8
Plan for Control of Commodity Prices.
3870
May 8
American Property Losses from Sino-Japanese
Hostilities, 1937-1939: Christien and Mission-
ary Alliance, Kweiping.
3971
May 3
British Cleims egainst the Japanese Government
for Property Losses in China.
3872
May 8
North Cuina Trade Rostrictions. British
Represontations.
3373
May 8
Claims for Amoricen Property Losses in China
Resulting from Sino-Japanese Hostilities,
1937-1939: Dr. C..arles L. Gillette, Poochow.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
No. Dato
Subject
3874 May 9
Japanese Interforence with British Shipz in
Crinese Weters.
3875
May 8
Article Proposing Japaneso Purchase of Glan.
3876
Mny 8
Reported Japanose Naval Opeations Plan Involv-
ing Notherlands East Indies.
3877 May 9
Japanese Interference with Foreign Suipping jn
China: British Ships Interned in Puarl River.
3878 May 9
Japanese Iuterference with Woreign Shippt
on the Yangtze: British Representations.
3879
Mry 8
Jepan's Foreign Policy, with Purticular Ref.
erence to the Situation in Europe.
3880
May 9 Roceipt of Speciel Gray Cipher Tables.
V 3881
Muy 10 Remarks by the Foreign Minister.
3882
May 10 International Suttlement at Shanghai: British
Representations.
3883
May 10 Curroncy Situation in North China.
3884
May 10
Japanese Discrinination against Foreign
Shipping at Tsingtao W.arves: British Repre-
sentations.
3885
May l0 British Cleims for Losses in China Resulting
from Si-o-Jepanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
British Consular Property at Foochow.
3886
May 10 Universal Loaf Tobacco Company.
3887
May 10 Roquest for New Vault Lock.
3888
May 10
Statement of Foreign Orfice Official Ro
Japanese Propagenda in the United States.
3889
My 10
American Property Losses in China Rosulting
from Si1o-Jepanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
American Presbyterian Mission, Hoihow:
Report
of Bombing on September 9,
1938 Incorrect.
3890 May 10 American Property Losses Resulting from Sino-
Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939. Nanking
Theological Seminary, Nanking.
3891
May 11 Bank of Japan Publications.
3892
May 10 Charwoman.
3893
May 10 Transmission of Address by Ambassador.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
-3..
Subjeot
3894
May 13 Employme..t of Temporary Fireman.
3895
Mey 13 Diplomatic Visa Report.
3896
May 13 Cotton Standards.
3897
May 13 Japan's Foroign Policy, with Particular Refer.
ence to tho Situation in Europe.
3898
May 17 Japanese Bombing of Chungking.
3899
May 17 Japanese Bombing of Chungking.
3900
May 18 Statement of American Newspaper Correspondent.
James R. Young.
3901
May 18 Pross Interviow of American Businessman,
Edwin T. Colton.
3902
May 19 Internationel Congress of Aeronautical Sciences.
3903
May 19 Request for Leave, Mr. Glen Bruner.
3904
May 19
l939 World Automotive Enginoering Congress of
Society of Automotive Engineers, May 22-June 8
1939.
3905
May 20 The National Spiritual Mobilization Movement.
3906
May 20 Diplomatic Visa Report.
3907
May 22
Tax Discrimination agsinst Subsidiary of B.A.T.
Co., Ltd., in Japanose Controlled Area in North
China.
3908
May 22
Attack oy Japanose Airplanes on H.If.S. SANDPIPER
on Yangtze River on October 24, 1938.
3909
May 22
British Claims Against the Japanese Government
for property losses in China.
3910
May 23
Transmission of Translation of Religious Organi-
zation Law.
3911
May 23
Temporary Translator Kenkichi Mori.
3912
Mey 24
Report of Conditions in Japan During the Month
of April, 1939.
3913
May 24
Editoriel Comment on J'r. Grew' Departuro
on loeve.
3914
May 24
1936, 1937, and 1938 Leave, Mr. David K.
Caldwell.
3915
May 24
Japanosc Bombing of American Property in China -
Recont Recrudescence of Bombing.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
Dete
Subjeot
3916
May 24
Landing of Japanese Troops at Internationa?
Sottlement, Kulangsu, Amoy.
3917
May 25
Report by Looal Authorities to Ameriban Jons
Officers of Daaths of Amoricans of the Japanese
Race with Dual Nationelity.
3918
May 25 International Scttlonent at Shanghai.
3920
May 27 Diplometic visa report.
3921
May 31 Lettors rogatory, VENICE MARU case.
3922
May 31 Covenant Missionary Socioty, Kingmen, bomh

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
Telegrams Sent tohe Department During
May 1939
No. Dato
Subject
207
May 1, 4 p.m.
Roquisitions.
208
May 1, 6 p.m.
Statoment of Foreign Office Spokesman.
809
May 2, 2 p.m.
Roquest for Stntion Wagon.
210
May 2, 5 p.m.
Rayon Pulp Imports.
211
May 3, 10 a.m.
Proposod Soarch for Soa Junk SEA DRAGCN.
212
May 4, 11 a.m.
Narcotics traffic.
213
Mey 4, 6 p.m.
Representetions regarding Shanghai Inter-
national Sottlement.
214
May 5, 5 p.m.
Foreign Office Messago regarding Bombing
of Chungking.
215
May 5, 6 p.m.
Cabinet Conferonce with Emporor rogarding
military alliance with Gornany and Itcly.
216
May 10,6 P.m.
Possible military alliance.
217
May 10, 4 p.m.
Ambassador's Leave of Absonce.
218
May 11, 4 p.m.
Chungking Bonbing, Represontations.
219
May 11, 5 p.m.
Representations concorning bonbing of
Swatow, Ningpo and Foochow.
220
May 12, noon
221
May 12, 9 p.m.
British roprosontations concorning bombing
of Chungking.
222
May 13, 2 p.m.
Represontations concorning allegod stato-
mont of Jepanese spokesman in Shanghai
regarding International Settlement.
223
May 13, 3 p.m.
German-Italian-Jepancse military allienco.
324
May 15, 4 p.n.
Codes.
225
May 15, 5 p.m.
Shanghai Municipal Council.
326
Mey 15, 6 p.m.
International Settlement at Kulangsu.
327
May 16, 7 p.m.
German-Italian-Japanoso nilitary allianco
328
May 17, 11 a.m.
Departure on homo loeve of Mr. Crocker.
29
May 17, 3 p.m.
Publicction in JAPAN ADVERTISER of article
regarding U.S.-Brazilian relεtions.
.30
May 17, 4 p.m.
Shanghai Municipal Council.
31
May 17, 5 p.m.
North Chinc Trade Restrictions.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
7
-2-
No. Dato
Subject
238
May 18, 11 a.m.
Missing SEA DRAGON.
233
Mey 18, 4 p.m.
International Settlemont, Amoy.
234
May 18, 5 p.m.
Prime Minister Arita's Messago to
Seorotary of State Hull through Mr. Grew.
235
May 18, 7 p.n.
Political Situation in Japan.
236
May 19, 9 a.m.
Mr. Grew's Doparture on Hone Loave.
237
May 19, 2 p.n.
Intornational Settlonent, Shanghai.
Anglo-Anericen Action.
238
May 19, 4 p.m.
Reprosentations concerning bonbings of
Anorican Property in China.
239
May 19, 5 p.m.
Bombing of American Property in China.
240
May 19, 7 p.m.
Decorntions conforrod on Captain Turner eru
Conmendor Thoiss by the Emporor.
241
Mey 22, 6 p.m.
Reprosontctions concorning Bombings of
Anorican Proporty in Chinc.
242
May 23, 11 p.m.
Strictly Confidential.
243
May 25, 11 e.m.
Exchango difficulties - Dent and Russell.
244
My 26, 3 p.n.
Manchuria Hoavy Industrios Dovelopnont Co.
245
May 26, 8 p.m.
Strictly Confidential.
246
May 28, 3 p.n.
Foreign Office spokesnan's stctoment re-
garding foreign sottlenents in China.
-7
247
May 29, 1 p.m.
Newspepor roport of Japan's attitude
towerd Anglo-Soviet nogotietins.
48
May 29, 2 p.m.
Jepaneso perticipation in Whaling Agreoment
49
May 29, 4 p.m.
Soarch for missiong SEA DRAGON.
350
May 31, 6 p.n.
Japaneso Attitude Concerning Anglo-Soviot
Alliance.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 6, 1939
41
JWB:
Tokyo's monthly report for July 1939
contains no information of importance which
has not already reached the Division in
telegram or despatch form.
You will be interested in the report
that a good-will mission of Thai journalists
visited Japan in the month of July, receiving
much public attention; that Japan has decided
to open a legation t Iraq; and that Japan
has decided to establish a legation in Bul-
garia.
James Espy has been writing the Tokyo
monthly report for some mon ths and I think he
does them extremely well. They are well
written; a great deal of thought and care
evidently enter into the preparation; and
they give a complete picture of developments
each month which 1s of especial value, I find,
for reference purposes. I you have no
objection, I should like to draft an instruction
commending Mr. Espy on the preparation of the
current monthly report.
894.00 P.R./140
FE: Sal18pry: MHP

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
▲ugust 14, 1939.
Tokyo's monthly report for June,
l939, contains no signiricant informtion
new to the Diwision, other perhaps than
the statement on page ll that notices
appeared in the press that representations
had been made by the American Embasay
in regard to recurrent Japanese bombings
of American property in China, these
notices being the first on the sub ject
whieh had appeared since the sinking of
the U.S.S. PANAY. The press also stated
that the question of giving publicity to
correspondence between the two governments
over the bombings had been discussed.
FE:Sa1
OF STATE

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 153
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JUNE, 1939.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX AND
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITD TATES:
(a) Fur Trade Restrictions in North Chine.... ..
1,2
(b) Foreign Concessions in hinc........
2,3
(c) British Concessien t Tloutsin..
3,4,5,6,7
(a) Intornational Settlemert at Kulangsu.........., 7,3.
(e) North China Trade Restrictions.....
9,10
(f) Japanose Bombings of American Property
in Chinc.....
10,11
(g) Other Representetions.....
11,12
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(ε) Great Britcin.
.12,13,14,15
16,17,18,19
20
1. British Concession at Tientsin..
12,13,14,15
16,17
2. North Chine Trode Rostriction..........
.17,18
3. Anti-British Agit tion in Japanese Con-
trolled Arees cnd Protection of
British Lives nd Property in China....... 18
4.
Further Reprosontoti. ns mede by the
British mbassy During Juno..
19
5. Anglo-French N vi1 Cunference at Singcporo.19,20
(b) Franco....
.20,21
(c) China......
21,22,23,
24
1. Militcry Operaticns....
.21,22,23
2. General Affoirs.......
.23,24
(d) Russia..
.24,25
1. "Hanchukuo"-Outer Mongolic Border Claims...24,25
(c) Australia..
.25

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS..
.25,26,27,
28,29,20
(a) Nctional Mobilization..
.25,20,27
28
(b) Foreign Trade Connission of the Dopartment of
Commorce..
.29
(c) Changos in Japanoso Foreign Exchange Control Law.29
(a) Law for tho Protoction of Military Rosources
Secrots..
.29,30
IV. COURSE OF LEGISL:TION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERNMENT FIIVNCE.
.30,31
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FIN.NCIAL CONDITIONS.........3I,32,33
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AIERICAN COMMERCI/L INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COM ERCI'L INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX. L/BOR.
Nothing to roport.
MISC LL/NTOUS.
Nothing t. renort.

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Fur Trade Restrictions in North China.
In conformity with the Department's telegraphic instruc
tions* Mr. Dooman on June 16 addressed a note** to the Ministe
for Foreign Affairs protesting against the continued inter-
ference by Japanese authorities in North China with Amerioan
trade there in furs and skins. There was first pointed out
in the note the American interest in North China in these
products. This interest was defined as threefold: (1) America.
firms were prominent in the business of purchasing and ex-
porting furs and skins from North China; (a) American con-
sumers take the bulk of Chinese exports of domestic animal
furs and skins and are to an important extent dependent
upon Chinq as a sonrce of supply; and (3) the curtailment of
exports from North China to the United Statos, or to other
free currency areas, necessarily reduced the foreign exchange
available for the purchase of American products. Note was
then made of tho unwarranted interferonce since the occupa-
tion of the area by Japanese military forces to which the
fur trade in North China had been subjected almost contin-
uously by agencies of the Japanesc Government.
After giv-
ing a description of the actions in this connection on the part
of the authorities in North China and making reforence to
previous representations made by tho American Government in
tho matter, it was stated that it appeared that the principal
interference was caused by the Japanese military, who had
claimed that such action was warranted by military necessity.
This
* Department's tolegram No. 160, June 8, 1939.
**Embassy's telegram No. 275, June 16, and despatch
No. 3980, June 22, 1939.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
This argument was contested as being inapplicable as there :culi
appoar to be no reason why the Japanese could not purchase the
articles along with the other buyers in the market. It was con-
oludod that the purpose of the Japanese military was to stifle
competition, procure their requirements at lower prices than woulu
be the case with open competition and obtain foreign exchango from
direct oxportations by their own agencies. The roquest was then
made that the Japanese Government cause this intorference to the
legitimate commerce of American citizens in China to cease.
(b) Foreign Concossions in China.
It will be recalled that on May 24 the spokesman of the For-
eign Office issued a stetement to the effect that Japan considered
that Chinese sovereignty still extended over the foreign settle-
ments in China and that as it was Japan's aim in China to control
Chinese sovereignty she might take steps to control this sovereign-
ty in the settlements. (Monthly report for May). The Japanese
Consul General at Shanghai also is reported to have made a state-
ment on May 27 to the effect that he believed that his American,
British and French colleagues were well aware that a refusal to
negotiate with him in regard to revision of the Shanghai Land
Regulations would mean the loss of "a safety valve for the
Settlement".
In accordance with the Department's telegraphic instructions,*
Mr. Dooman, on June 12, in an informal memorandum which he read to
and left with the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs presented to
Mr. Sawada the American Govornment 's views with regard to those
statements. Mention was first made of the hope of the United
States Government that those pronouncements did not portray
accurately the considered attitude of the Japanese Govornment.
It was then said that the United States as well as Japan and
other Powers have rights and obligations in respect to the
settlements
 Department's teleg: am no. 149, June 2, and 157, June 9, 1939.

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
sottlemonts whioh are administered by duly constituted authoritis
under regulations to whioh the treaty Powers, including the Unis
States and Japan have subsoribed. Accor ingly, none of those
governments has any right unilaterally to interfere with the admir.
tration of the settlements. Referonce was then made to the aido
mémoiro presented to the Japanese Government on May 17, in which
were oxpressed the attitude of tho American Government toward
the question of the revision of the Land Regulations and its
views in rogard to the offorts thet the Settlomont authorities
wore making to adjust administretivo practico in meeting the reason-
able requests from tho Japanese authoritios.
It was stated in conclusion that those observations were made
specifically in regard to the International Settloment at Shanghai
but applied with equal force in principle to the International
Settloment at Kulangsu, Amoy.*
(c) British Concession at Tientsin.
Reference was made in the Department's telegraphic instsuction *
of June 8th to the reports from Tientsin in regard to the fact that
the Japanese militcry cuthorities there, following upon the impasse
between the Japanese and British authorities over the Japanese de-
mands for tho handing ovor to thom of four Chinesc hold in the
British Concossion and accused of complicity in the murder of a
Chinose "puppet" Government official in April, were contemplating
taking some drastic action against the British Tientsin Concossion.
The American Consul General at Tientsin had reported*** on June 7
that he had been informed that the action to be taken would be
either
* Embεssy's dospatch no. 3988, June 22, 1939.
**Department's telogram 156, June 8, 1939.
***Tientsin's tolegram no. 83, June 7, 10 p.m.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
either tho forcible seizure of the British Conoession or its
complete isolation and thet according to the statemonts of the
Japaneso authorities themselvos, sorious noonvonionce would havo
to be caused to American nationals and interests.
In accordance with the Department's instructions, Mr. Dooman
on June 1o made an oral stetomont to Mr. Sawada in regard to the
situation at Tientsin and the same day sent a paper to him as an
informal record of his statement.*
Mention wes made in the statement of the Embassy's prior com-
munioations to the Japanese Governmont in which the concern of the
United States Government was expressed over the situction that had
prevailed for some time at Tientsin. In this regerd it was recalled
thet the Embassy in a memorandum which was left with Mr. Yoshizawa
on February 6, l939, had pointed out that the trade rostrictions at
Tientsin instituted by the Japanose military authorities had tonded
to stifle Americen trade and other intorests, which includod in-
vestmonts of over l2 million dollars local currency and trado with
the United States of more than 200 million dollars looal currency,
and also thet on March 6, 1939, an aide mómoiro was loft at the
Foreign Office making representations ngainst the barbed-wire
fonces plcced around the British and French Concessions which hinder-
ed the froo passngo of persons in ond out of the Concessions.
It was then stated that together with the unwarranted restrictions
elready imposed at Japanese instance on the movement of persons
and goods and on American trnde, it now appecred that sorne drcstic
action wcs contamplcted which would further affect American nationels
nd intorests and thct the American Government could not but view
this with concern. The hope was, in conclusion, expressed that the
Japanese
" nespatch no. 3987, Juno 22, 1939.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
Japanese Governmont would rofrain from taking eny stors cusing
further detrimont to American intorosts in that pcrt.
Mr. Sawade's commont in roply to this statcment wes ic tho
offoct that whatevor measures might bo takon by tho upennse auch-
oritios at Tientsin against tho British Concession, very cffort
would be made to avoid causing inconvenience to Americen l iurls
but that British offici ls in Tiontsin had "loft no room' for
further discussion with them by the Japneso. At tho seme timo
Mr. Snwadn referred to the confidenco which both tho British and
tho Japenose cuthorities plrced in Mr. Consul Goneral C-ldwell
and srid unofficinlly that he believod that it would be helpful if
Mr. Ccldwell could use his good offices.* Mr. Dooman concurred
in this feeling and advised Mr. Sewadn in concluding the talk that
Mr. Caldwell had reccived standing instructions to use his gooi
offices towerds bringing about a friondly sottlement of the
question under dispute and thct he knew ho was doing all he could
in that direction.
On Juno 13 Mr. Dooman was inforned by a momber of the British
Embassy that the British Consul Goneral at Tientsin had boen auth-
orized to set up an advisory committee, to consist of one British-
er, one Japanese and one neutral to pass on the ovidence which
might be available touching on the allegou complicity of the four
Chinose in the assassination. Mr. Dooman oxpresscd willingness
to inform the Vice Minister for Foroign Affairs of the terms of
these instructions and to suggest that the Japaneso Government
instruct its cuthorities at Tientsin to withhold any nction
directed agcinst the British Concossion pending oxanination of the
British plnn. The British Ambassador being agreeable to this move,
Mr. Dooman thct afternoon spoke to Mr. Sawada in the matter. He
was informed that it was then too late for the Japanese Government
to intervene in the actions of the Japanese military at Tientsin.*
on
* Embassy s despatch no. 3987, June 22, 1939.
**Embassy's despatch no. 3973, June 21, 1939.

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
On June 2l Mr. Dooman in a conversation with the Director of
the American Bureau of the Foreign Office referred to the roports
of the humillstion and indignities which were being inflicted
by Japanese sentries at the barriers of the British Concession at
Tientsin on Britiwh persons. He informed Mr. Yoshizawa as his
personal opinion that it would be a great mistake for the Japanose
to assume, by avoiding mistreatment of American nationals in Tientsin
that they could hope to avoid strong roaction in tho United States
to such reports.*
In tho Department's telegrephic instruction** of June 24,
approval was made of this action by Mr. Dooman and it was stated
that the roports referred to had received widespread publicity in
tho United States and were causing a general feeling of indignation o:
the part of the American people. The Department's observation was
informally passed on to the Foreign Office.
The statement*** made by the Secretary of State at the press
conference on Juno 19 was published in full in Japan. It was to
the effect that the United States Government was not concerned with
the original incidents at Tientsin but was concerned with the nature
and significance of subsequent developmonts in their broader aspects
coupled with other past and present acts and utterances in other
parts of China. No perceptible reaction, however, appoared in
Japan to the statoment.
The reports which appoared in the local pross in regard to
the American attitude over the Tientsin situation stressed the
belief that the United States would romain aloof from the controv-
orsy, and they even put forth intimations that the Amorican Govern-
lent had approvod Japanese actions at Tientsin. It was given out in
newspaper
Embassy's telegram no. 290, June 22, 1939.
Department's telegram no. 173, June 24, 1939.
**
Department's telegram 167, June 19, 1939.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
nowspaper articles thet the United Stetes had no desire "to pull
British chestnuts out of the firo" and the opinion was genorally
expressed that the respect accorded to American citizens by the
Japanese authorities in charge of the blockade at Tiontsin had made
immediate parallel action of the Ucited States with Great Britain
and France against Japan improbablo.
(d) International Settlement at Kulangsu.
It will bo rocallod that tho Embassy on May 18 made an oral
inquiry of tho Foreign Office in rogard to the Jepaneso Governmont's
intontions with rospect to the landing of Japanoso marines in the
International Settlement at Kulangsu and with rospect to the Japan-
ese demands of tho Municipal Council thero f or changos in the ad-
ministration of the Settlement. In conformity with the Department's
telegrephic instructions* and in the light of the reports from the
American Consul at Amoy, Mr. Dooman made a number of representations
to the Foreign Office in regard to the situation at that port.
On June 10 Mr. Doomen spoke to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
and informed him that the American Government was concerned over
68
the unnecessarily belligerent attitude of the Japenese Consul Gen-
eral and other Japanese officials at Amoy, and he pointed out that
the menacing attitude of the Japanese Consul General there appeared
to be the principal obstacle to the friendly adjustment of problems
at Kulangsu.
The Japanese Consul General had returned to Tokyo during the
middle of the month and on June 15 issued a statoment to the pr ess
inwhich he is reported to have said thet the Japanose intended to
proceed on the basis of carrying through to the finish the five
Japanose
* Department's telegramsl55, June 7, and 166, June 17, 1939.

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Japanese demands on tho Municipal authorities and that in ordor to
make the "inoreasingly arrogant Municipal Counoil" soo the light it
may bo neoeasary to str ngthon the coastal blockade which had been
in effoct since May 25. On the same day Mr. Dooman brought this
statoment to the attention of the Director of tho American Bureau
df the Foreign Office and expressed astonishment that the Japanese
Government placed confidence in the qualifications of a person such
as Mr. Uchida appeared to be for conducting delicate negotiations
with Governments of friendly countries. Mr. Dooman then informod
Mr. Yoshizawa of the Department's instructions in its first tele-
gram under reference. He omphasized especially that tho American
Government was proparod to enter into friondly discussions of ways
and moans to givo Japanese interests in Kulangsu greater security
so long as (a) the International Settlement's character was not
prejudiced; (b) the principle of international cooperation on a
reprosentative basis was not violated, and (c) thet no change in
the Land Regulations was involved. In rogard to the last provision,
in reply to an inquiry from Mr. Yoshizawa as to the objection for
not changing the Land Regulations, Mr. Dooman stated that by troaty
undor which the settlement had been established no change could be
made in the Land Rogulations withont consent of the Chinose Govern-
mont. Mr. Dooman also agein stressed that thore could be no possi-
bility whatever of giving into menecing demends.
In representations medo later in tho month, Mr. Dooman brought
up the matter of Japaneso interference with supplies to tho Interne-
tional Settlement and both in oral convorsations and written memoran-
da pointed out the sorious view which tho Americen Govornmont took
of the obstacles which had been pleced in the way of forwarding food
nd fuel supplies to the International Settlement and that it was
it= fecling that such interforonco was dosigned to starve the foroign
community

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
community at Kulangsu into complianco with the demands made by
the Japanese on tho settloment authoritios. He egain repeatod tho
stetement which he hed made on provious occasions that there could
be no treffio with monacing demands. It was requested that this
intorferonoo with supplies be terminated.*
(e) North China Trado Restrictions.
It will be recallod that on April 13 a note was received from
the Japenese Foreign Office which gonerally denied or ignored the
contontions of the Americen Government in its representations made
b. the Ambassador on March ll in regerd to the drastic trade res-
trictions being imposod by tho Jcpanose-sponsored régime in North
China. In its instructions of Mey 20 the Department authorized the
Embassy to address another note to the Foroign offico in the mntter,
inasmuch as the British Ambassador had boen instructed by his
Government to moke a rejoinder to tho roply roccived by him from
the Foroign Office in rogard to his ropresentations, and should it
be considored helpful thet an epproach be mede by this Embassy at
the seme time.
On June 12,following the British end French reprosont tions
made on June 8 and 9 respectively, Mr. Doomen prosontod this
Embassy's note.** In again calling the rttention of the Foroign
Minister to tho question of the trode rostricticns in North China,
it was pointed out in tho note that since tho Amorican Govornment's
representaticns of March ll there hed been little or no allevic-
tion in tho conditions complained of nd that monsures still in
force continued to work considercble herdship nd discrimin tion
against
bassy's telograms 269, Juno 12; 270, Juno 13; 278, June 17;
280, June 19; 293, Juno 23; nd Embcassy's despatch 3988, June 22,
3.539.
Fmbassy's telegram 268, June 12, cnd duspatch 3922, June 22,1939.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
agcinst Amorican interosts and seriously to interfere with tho
normel flow of trede betweon the United Statos and Japanese-occupiod
arees in Chino. The hope was again exprossed that tho Japanoso
authorities would not continuo to stend behind enforcenont of thoso
restrictions but would romove thom.
(f) Japanose Bombings of American Proporty in China.
Assurances had been received by tho Unitod States Governmont
on May 17 from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in reply to tho
Ambassador's reprosentations over the bombing of American property
in China that the Japanese military forces were being admonished to
take special care to respect American property. On May 22, vigorous
representations were again made in a formal note to the Foreign
Minister in view of the continued bombing. But, nevertheless, in-
stances of bombings were still being reported from one locality or
another in China during the latter part of May and during June. The
Depertment on June 15 directed the Chargé d'Affaires again to lodge
orally an emphatic protest against the continuence of these acts.
On June 19 Mr. Dooman in a long conversation with Mr. Arita* referred
to the voluminous correspondence between the Embassy and the Forel gn
Office in this matter, the repeated protests against the unnecessary
and gratuitous destruction of American property and the fact that
the Embassy had received assurances from the Foreign Office that
measures had been taken to prevent bombing of American churches,
schools and hospitals. He then informed the Foreign Minister that
subsequently to the receipt of those assurances there had boen
nine fresh incidents, some of them involving the soventh or eighth
ttack on the same property. He then stated thet these facts indi-
 ted beyond eny doubt that the preventive measures which were boing
l. vre entirely inadcquate and that the conclusion was ines-
pble thet the responsible Japanese officials wero not sufficiently
concerned
Embassy's despatch no. 3989, June 22, 1939.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
concerned over the need for avoiding injury to American interests,
and he protested formally and emphatically egainst these ropeatad
ettacks. Mr. Arita replied that the Japanose Goverment had done
everything possible to prevont injury being done to American in-
terests and is Japen sutort inodgonly the most fri ndly. fucling.
toward the Uuitod Statas the assurauces given turt Amerioan rights
and interests in China would be respected were not mere empty
words, but that in view of the fresh protests they would endeavor
to provide further preventive measures.
For the first time, almost since the sinking of the PANAY
in December l937, notices appoered in the pross that reprosentations
had been made by the Embassy in regerd to the rocurrent Japanese
bombings of American property in China. Reports from Washiggton wore
published which announced thet Mr. Dooman hed made such reprosenta-
tions. It wes also steted thet the matter of giving publicity to
the correspondonce between the Japenese and American Governments
over the bombin's had been disuussed and thet the Stato Department
officials wished to mrke public full correspondence to show the
record of the numerous Amcrican protests and the repeated Japanose
assurances that greeter coro would be exercised to avoid aam.go
being dono to Amorican property. However, no other mention of or
comments on the matter appocred in tho press srticles or editorials.
(g) Other Representetions.
During tho month of Juno the Embassy made rperesontations
to the Foroign Office concerning tho arrest at Amoy of Marsollo Tan,
a Philippine citizen, end the refusal of the Japanese authoritios
to pormit his releaso.* Representations were also mede in regard
to tho reportod detontien of Mr. L. W. Holland et Nencheng, Hunan
Province.**
Roprosontotions
 Embessy's tologram no. 292, June 23, and dospetch 4007, June 30,19.
**Embassy's tolegram no. 307, Juno 30, 1939.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Ropresentations wore also made during the month under review
concerning proporty losses in China in tho following instances:*
Endangering by bombing of Standard Vacuum Oil Company
Installation, Foochow, Fukion.
Soizure of Equipment of Standard Vacuum Oil Compeny,
Nantungchow, Kiangsu.
Bombing of Southern Baptist Mission, Chengchow, Honan.
Bombing of Southern Beptist Mission, Leiyang, Shantung.
Shelling of Unitod Brethern Mission, Siulan, Chungshan,
Kwangtung.
Seizure of Oil Stocks of Toxas Company (China) Ltd.,
Hoihow, Hoinan Island.
Bombing of Evangelical Mission, Shiuhing, Kwengtung.
Bombing of Wost China Union University, Chengtu,
Szechuen.
Bombing of Mothodist Episcopal Mission, Chungking.
Bombing of Southern Beptist Missicn, Shiuchow. Kwangtung.
Clcims for American Property Losses in China:
Mr. C. Yates McDaniel, Nanking.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
1. British Concession at Tiontsin.
It was reported in Japan on June 1 that the previous day a
demand had been mede of the British Consulate General for a reply
by
These reprosontations were reported in the following despatchos
which are listod in the srme order as tho above represontations:
Nos, 394ć, June 8; 3952, June 9; 3961, June 10; 3963, June 13;
3972, Junc 21; 3974, June 21; 3975, June 21; 3976, June 21; 3977,
Juno 21; 3979, June 22; 4001, Junc 28, 1939.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
by June 7 in connoction with the transfor of the four sugpeots in
the assassinations of the Chinose "puppet" Govornmont oustoms offi-
cial in the British Concession. On June 7 it was roportod that
in view of the British refusnl to turn over tho four Chineso whoso
complicity in the crime in quostion tho Jcpanose gondermors as-
sertod they hed established, tho Jap neso would tako "indopondont
aotion". June 14 wes tho dete set for such cction.
Both at Tokyo and et Tientsin proposcls were made on June 13
for an aribitration commission consisting of ono British, one
Jepenese end one neutrel to bo set up to oxcmino the available ovi-
dence and to determine whether thero was a primn fecio cese against
the lleged tarrorists sufficiently strong to warrant their delivery
to the local Chinese court. The proposal reportedly was submitted to
the Japanese authorities in the evening of June 13 but the Japanese
authorities there refused to consider the proposal. On the morning
of the following day the previously announced blockade of the British
Conoession was put into force.
In a statement issued by the Japanese military authorities
at Tientsin on June 13, announcing that the blockade of the Con-
cession would be put in force, it was declared that while the
isolation originated in the British refusal to hand over the crimi-
nals in question, that was only one side of the situation and that
the issue could no longor be settled with the mere delivery of the
criminals. Instead, it was declared, the Japanese were calling an
Britain to reconsider its attitude of assisting Chiang Kai-shck,
to give no protection to anti-Japanese tarrorists in the British
Concession, to discontinue support to the Chinese legal tender,
to remove obstruotions to the circulation of the Federal Reserve
Bank

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Bank currency, and to ban the use of anti-Japanoso text books. And,
it was conoluded, until the concession authorities chengod thoir
attitude and "truly cooperato with Japan wo will not lay asido our
sword."
On Juno 14 tho British Ambassador callod on tho Ministor for
Foreign Affairs and protostod against this statemont.
The Foreign
Ministor repliod that the action of the Japanose military was a
"defensive moasure made necessary by the failure of the British
authorities to control Chinoso terrorists". He said that the
Japanese Government would not intervene at Tientsin and he re-
affirmed the statement of the Japanese military at Tientsin that a
liquidation of the situation now could not be effected by mere
delivery of the four alleged Chinese terrorists, but that there
would also have to be a "reconsiderstion by the British of their
attitude of assisting Chiang Kai-shek".
Reports wero freely circulated by the press in Japan shortly
after the blockade was initiated that the British Government wes
studying measures of rotaliation against Japan, particularly
oconomic retaliation. In this connection a statoment was issued
by tho Army press spokesman on June 20 that "London is now broad-
casting the possibility of enforcing economic retaliation measures
against Japan; --- but that the Japanese are never to be intimi-
dated; -- and oconomic rotaliation by ono country against another
is ept to provoke warlike tonsion between both countries". Ho
also, roportedly, in tho samo statement declared that the nation was
standing bohind tho Army's stand at Tiontsin and thet public opinion
in Japan had boen showing e firm front and that thore was a rising
sentimont cgainst Britein in Japen.
Tho

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
The British Ambassador on scvocal occasions called on the
Foreign Minister to protest egsinst tho restricticns*, indignities
and insults perpetrated by the Tncannse inapection gendarmos at the
barriers in Tientsin. Thos rostripticus roportcdlv hed boen car-
ried to the point of cuttirg do on tho food surilics to tho Con-
cession, while a number of ccses ci stripping British nationals
and other insults were also reported. It was reported in tho press
in Jepan that tho British Foroign Secretary at London had also
on June 23 made strong represontations to the Japanese Ambassador
there in which he declared thct unless the "intolerable insults"
to British subjects wore stopped Great Britein would be forced to
teke "appropriate steps" in return.
On Juno 28 an announcement was made by tho Forcign Office of
the decision that "in rosponse to a British proposcl, the Jepanese
Government hed decided to conduct negotistions in Tokyo with a view
to solving vcrious questions rclating to tho prosont situction at
Tiontsin." It was elso st-ted thet the nogotintions would go
bevond the mere question of transferring nti-Jepaneso assossins
end that it wes expected that the Japanese Government would request
considor tion by Grert Britcin of militcry, economic and politicul
problems necessary "for tho mointenence of peace and order on
the spot." Japanose and British officiels were
to bo sent to Tokyo
from Tientsin to assist in the negotiations.
This docision had been worked out during the last ten days of
the month between the British Embassy and the Jepanese Governmont
officials at Tokyo. Mr. Arita stated to Sir Robert Craigie when
the decision was egroed upon, in part, "that it is gonerally be-
licved in my country that the present China affeir could have
boen brought to en end long before this but for the continued
nssistonce given by your country to Chiang Kai-shek, and it is
on uncnimous dosire of my country that in opprccintion of our
case

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
case, your country will bring herself to abandon in due course
its polioy of assisting Chiars tnd to adjust it so as to be in
line with our policy in China.
In handling all outstardirg
questions in Tientsin, I hope that Your Excellency will bear in
mind the existence of this sentiment in my country."
The blockade of the Tientsin Concession was universally hailel
with approval by the entire Japenese press as an ect that was
brought about by the so-called intracteble attitude of the British
Government and its Concession authorities. With the exception of
one or two conservative newspapers, attacks of an increasingly
hostile nature as the month went on against Britain were voiced in
the press editorials. In the conservative newspapers, in fact,
regret was expressed that the blockade had to come about but it
was insisted that, although no hopo could be expccted that Groat
Britain would cooperatc with Japan politically or financially,
still Japan insisted that Britain discontinue its hostile ettitude
towards this country, show a moro sinccre attitude in its dealirgs
with Japan and stop assisting the Chieng Kai-shok régime. The rost
of tho press, - led in its open hostility by tho HoChI, an Army-
controlled nowspaper, - levelled essaults on Britain and the
Tientsin concession, calling the former as good as an enemy to
Japan and the latter a "canccrous growth" which harbored anti-Japanes
terrorists, thwarted the economic development of the"new order in
North China" and supported the old Chinese currency which hed boen
prohibited by the "Peiping Provisional Government". Much attention
wes also given to possiblo retaliation by Great Britain for the
Tientsin blockade. Comments in this regard wero generally in
tho way of asserting that Britain could not effectivoly do so, but
if she could, Britain would only suffer loss to herself in the
Far East and she could not deter Japan from carrying out her
firmly dotormined policy in regard to establishing a new order
in East Asia."
Following

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
Following the announooment that tho negotiations of the Ticntsi!.
issue would be held in Tokyo, the Japenese press, far from indiogt-
ing relier that a possiblo moans had boon attained for sottlivg &
difficult local situation, turned on Great Britain with groater
ferocity. The forthcoming conforenco was lookod upon as an oppor-
tunity which must bo seized upon to force Britain to alter her entir
policy towards Japan end China. It was oven intimatod thet Britai.
was weakening and thct now Japen should settle her grievances with
Englend.
2. North China Trade Restrictions.
As has been mentioned in the foregoing section of this report
further representations were made in June by the British, French
and American Embassies in regard to trade restrictions in North
China. In the British note of June 8 the Japaneso stand in tho matt.
as sot forth in the Foreign Office's note of April 12 to tho Britis?
Embessy was strongly contestod. It was statod that Great Britain
still considered tho trado and monoy exchange rostrictions a serious
discrimination in favor of Japan and Against Groat Britain, with
Japan using tho control to direct the North China trade to exports
to and imports from Japan or through Japan, while British traders
were no longer able to carry on trade frooly with world markots. It
was also contonded thet tho North Chinn tredo in general had been
curtnilod by these actions, and thet the action had not esteblished
a firm currency system in North Chine but hcd morely put in the
place of the legal Chinose currency a currency thet was both over-
valued and not freely convertible into foreign exchange; that
there wore no grounds to the Japanese argument thet the question
of treaties do not arise end that the North Chine authorities had
no justification to contravene tho provisions of the Nine Power
reaty regarding equality of opportunity, etc., in China; end that
the

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
-18-
the implication of tho Japenese Government that Japan was merely
cooperating with the Provisioncl authorities in North China was
untonable, as it was only too apparont that the action of Chineso
authoritios was taken et the instigation and with tho assistance
of the Jepanoso authoritios.*
3. Anti-British Agitation in Japanoso Controlled Arons
and Protecticn of British Livos and Property in China.
Roprosentations were clso mode during tho month under roviow by
741.94
the British Embessy in rogard to nnti-British agitotion in tho Japan-
ese occupied arees of Chine ond in regard to tho protoction of
British lives end property there. It was cl imed in the memorandum *
prosnitod by the British Ambessador to tho Foreign Offico on June 6,
that tho Jepanese authorities in Chinc had not only condoned enti-
British ngitetion but thot certain elements amongst them appeared
to havo been connected with it, end that tho egitotion hed recontly
token the form of disordurs in British-owned mills in and cround
Shanghai and threatoned to become u monaco to British livos and
property. In further communications to tho Foroign Office tho
British Ambassndor took up tho mattor of tho killing of Mr. B. M.
Tinkler by Japanose soldicrs at Shanghci on Juno 6, which x curred
during a disturbenco et  British-owned mill at Pootung, Shanghai.
A strong protest was made against the treatment of Mr. Tinkler by
the soldiers and Japenese euthorities concornod in his doath and
also in regerd to the disturbanco itsolf as being occasi ns by
Jeponeso activitios rs n part of tho enti-British cempnign.***
4. Further
*
Embnssy's despetch nc. 3992, Junc 22, 1939.
**
Embcssy's despctch no. 3990, Juno 22, 1939.
***
Embassy's dospatch no. 40l3, July 5, 1939.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
4. Further Representations Made by the British Embassy
During Juco*
During the month under review the British Embassy made rep.
resentetions in the following cases:
Japanese Violction of British Interests in Sheng:ai-Nanking
and Shanghai-Hangchow-Ningpo Railways.
Japenose Interferonco with British Ships in Chinese
waters. SS "SAGRES".
Japanose Restrictions on British Trede in the Yangtze
Delta.
Japaneso Discrimination Agcinst Foreign Shipping at
TSINGTAO WHARVES.
British Cleims Against Jepanese Govcrnment for Property
Losses in China.
Jap&nese Uso of Chinese Customs in Connection with
Interference with Foreign Shipping in China.
Japanese Interferonce with British Trede in the Yengtze
Delte, otc.
Japenese Blockede of Chincse Const: Scizure of
SS "LALITA".
5.
Anglo-French Navel Conference et Singepore.
Much attention was given in the pross in Japan to the
conference of British ond French neval end military commanders that
was
8461.
*Those representations were r pcrted in the following despatchos
which are listed in the same order as the above reprosentetions:
Nos. 3950, Juno 9; 3981, June 22; 3985, June 22; 3986, June 22;
3991, June 22; 3993, June 22; 4008, Junc 30; 4012, Ju1y 5, 1939.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
was hold in the middle of June at Singaporo. It was reported here
thet the conference doalt with a Far Eastorn joing Anglo-Fronch
dofense programme in which was envisagod the use of all the foroes
and navel and military bases in tho Fer East of both countries under
one command in tho ccse of wer. It wes clso reportod thet the
commender-in-chiof of the British Chinose Station, Admirel Sir
Peroy Noble, would tcko in that eventuclity, suprome command of the
combinod nevel forces.
An attitude of marked distrust of and resentment against the
conference was manifested in press editorials in this country. It
was claimed that naval and military plans were being determined upon
at Singapore which would be solely aimed at Japan, primarily to
try to block her southward advance. It was also held that these
supposed plans represented an extension to the Orient of those
countries' militery accord in Europe. At the same time some
vitriolic assaults were released on the French and British colonial
policies in Asia.
(b) Frence
It was announced on June 27 that negotiations had finally
been completed for a new trade agreement between Japan and France,
to come into force retroactively as of March 15 when the last
7.51.91
egreement hed expired. Complaints had been made by France to Japan
of the very unfavorable balance of trade between the two countries
during the last year or so-in 1938 Japan hed sold some 36 million
yen of goods to Franco and had only bought comrodities to the
emount of Yen 13,500,000 in return. The French Government, to
limit the amount of Japanese sales to France and its colonios,
had resorted to the control of these oxports by the means of
certificates of import, signed by its consulat officials and Com-
mercial Attachó in Japan. It is provided by the new agreement
that

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
-21-
that those certificates are to be continued on all articles
exoept raw silk, silk textiles, camphor, pearls end toothbrushos.
Moreover, Japan would volunta ily restrict her seles to France on
ell articles so as not to allow its exports to France to exceed
70 million yen per yecr. Japan on the other hand agreed to incroese
substantially her purchases from France and to import in velue
about 40 million yen of iron, coke, machinery and chomicals, as
well as various kinds of nonferrous minorals such as nickel, etc.
Mention has already bocn made of represontations made by the
French Embassy to the Japanoso Govornmont in regard to the North
China trade restrictions. Thoso roprosentations wero along lines
similer to those of the British Embassy's note in tho same mattor.*
In contrast to thc groct animosity manifested in Japan towards
Groat Britain during the month under reviow, the relations betwoen
Jepan and France continuod on an emiceble basis. Particular note was
mode in this raspect in regerd to tho siturtion at Tiontsin where
the French euthoritics wore snid to bo "cooperating" fully with the
Japanose, and regret wes expressed that it hed been necessary to
include the Fronch Concession in the blockode.
(c) China.
1. Militcry Operations.**
The princip l militory operations during tho month under review
were directed townrds the tightening of the blockado of China by
the seizing of South China ports. On Juno 21, Swatow, which after
the fall of Canton had becoe the most important base of supplios of
the Chinose Government in South China, was captured by a joint Army
and Nevy attack. The capture was effected in e dey and a half's timo
with littlo resistance reportedly being ne o by tho defonding Chinose
forces. The city reportedly hed been evrcuntod of a large part of
its population and much in the wcy of public utilities cnd trans-
portation facilities thore were claimed to have been dostroyed
befcre
3992
June 22
1939.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
before the Chinese withdrew. After the fall of Swetow the Japan-
ose foroes in throe columns moved on Chnochow, a communication
conter some milos up the Han River from Swatow. Stiff resisteice
wes emoountered there cnd the town wcs not captured until Jun? 27.
Little surprise was occosioned by the fall of Swatow, as its seizirn
by the Jepenese had boen cnticipcted for some time.
On June 23 Japanese marines lcnded and occupied Chushan and
Teishan islends in the mouth of Hengchow Bay, thus gaining control
of Ningpo and its port Chinhei, through which a considereble amount
of foreign trade had been flowing into and from the hinterland.
Marines also landed on June 26 on the islends leading to the Bay on
which Wenchow is situated and reportedly have effectually stopped
the passage of goods both in and out of thet pcrt. On tho same day
i slsnds lying in the mouth of the Min River 18 miles downstreem
from Foochow were also occupied by Japenese marines. Tho Japanese
notified the powors thet traffic  ould not be permitted with Foochow
cfter the first of July.
Somo rather large sccle operations were also reportod to have
occurred in Shensi and in Shantung. The operatiens in Shensi were
in the southern part of thot province gainst 30,0o0 Chinese troops
remaining in the Chungtco Mountein range. By the end of the month
the Jcpenese cleimed to heve defected and rounded up the Chinese troop
The campaign in Shentung was reportedly cg inst some 100,00o troops
which were opereting in the arec est of the Tientsin-Pukow Railway
and north of the Lunghai Railway. Tho Japaneso claimed to have
split the Chinese forces into three groups by the first of July and
to havo destroyed their offective opposition, pressing the remnants
f the troops into the Yunmong Mountains. At the same time the
Japanose

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
Japanese forces were said to havo captured most of tho important
villages and towns in thet aree and to havo stoppod up tho remcin-
ing geps in tho corstal blookede north and east of Haichow.
Sporadic operations against guerrilles wore reportod to
heve occurred in mony croes of the occupicd territory, but theso
were cleimed to have been of a less importent nature then those whic!
hed been cerriod on in pre ious months. Except for heavy bombing
of the coastal cities of South China in connection with the military
and naval operations there, the Japanese air force appeared to have
remained reletively inactive during the month. However, several
severe raids were made again on Chungking and a raid also made as
far west as Chengtu.
2. General Affairs.
A good deal of concern apparently was felt in financial
circles in Japan in regard to the fall in the value of the Chinese
ational currency thet occurred on June 8. There were many rumors
in Japan in regard to the reasons for the Hong Kong and Shanghai
Banking Corporation in Shanghai suddenly announcing suspension of
inter-bank selling of pounds at the rete of 8 1/4 d. at which it had
boen pegged since the Anglo-Chinese exchange fund had been esteblish-
ed in March of this year. However, according to tho local press
two roasons were assignod forthis action. The first was that the
ton million pound yuan stabilization fund had boen severely drained
since its osteblishmont and that it was felt that Great Britain
had decided thet it was impossible to maintain the Chiness dollar
at the fixed rate; the socond was that it was the British design
to mako it difficult for Japan to acquire foreign exohango through
he Chinose curroncy, and that the manouver had'boen made to catch
short the Japanoso commorcial firms and the Hua Hsing Commercial
Bank, which had obtained considerable sums of Chinese currency
ith which to purchase foreign exchango.
No developments occurrod apparently in regard to the much-
heralded

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
heraléed ostablishment of some sort of contral rógime for the occu-
ded territories of China, although some attontion in this con-
neotion was given to Wang Ching-wei who ovidontly is beginning to
be lookod upon as a figure around whom possibly a new Govornmont,
could be sot up.
It was announced at the end of the month that Mr. Sotomatsu
Kato, formor Counselor of tho Japanoso Embassy at Hsinking, had
been detorminod upon as the new Ministor-at-large to China.
(a) Russia.
1. "Manchukuo"-Outer Mongolia Border Clashes.
The series of clashes reported to havo occurred during May
between Outer Mongolian troops, assisted by tho Soviet military,
and "Manchukuo" troops, along the border of those two districts in
the neighborhood of Nomohan and botweon the Nomohan and Halha rivors
near Lake Buir, wore again purportedly ronowod towards the ond of
the month aftor several weoks of comparativo "quiot". Headline
accounts appearod in the vernacul-r press from June 23 to the end of
the month that many engagomonts had baken plece, particularly in
aorial combets botween the Japanese airforce and the Soviet
sirforce which was supporting the Sovict-Outor Mongolian troops.
The Japaneso claimed to havo shot down as many as 98 planos in
ono oncounter, to have destroyod over 27o Russinn planes since
the beginning of the fighting and by the ond of the month, and
also to heve bombed on one occasion the Soviet airport at Tamsk
in Outer Mongolie.
Reports appeared from tire to time during the month of
Japenese-Sovict disputes in regard to the Japanese fishing along
the Siberian Coast and in regard to Japanoso lumber, coal, and
oil concossions in northern Saghalion. The Soviots wero accused
of

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
of obstruoting fishing oporations by repoctodly dotaining sovoral
Japaneso fishing boats. The interferonco with Japanoso Corcessions
in Northern Saghalion was olaimod to havo involvod tho withholi
d lebor permits, unreasonable domands of Soviet omployoes in r
to wages and working conditions, and in some cases the intorription
of food and wator supplios.
(e) Australia.
Reports appoared at the ond of the month thet a new Australian-
Japanose trade egroement had boon signod at Conborre to roplaco tho
ourront agreemont thnt oxpirod on Juno 30. Tho agrooment was to
come into offect from that dote and to oxtond for en indefinite
poriod until notificction of its abrogetion should be given by
oither perty. Tho moin provisions of the ngroement were tht Japen
egreed to buy from Austrclia at lecst two-thirds of the total
quantity of wool thnt it imported ccch yorr; thet in return
Australis will continue to buy Japenoso pioce goods and artificicl
silk goods, including staple fibre textilcs, but that Japan would
voluntorily limit the export of these goods to not to exceed
51,250,000 square yerds in quantity por year in cach catogory.
Silk goods woro not to bo included in this limitation.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Nationel Mobilization.
Thoro will be recallod thc developments that have beon trking
place in the past fow months to the ond of mobilizing ond rogimenting
the country's oconomic life. A numbor of the provisions of the ation
el Mobilization Law had clrerdy beon put into force by tho ond of
Mcy nnd it wos annonced during Juno that plens woro being drawn
up

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
up by tho Governmont to invoke further provisions of that law as
well es to undertake other mecsuros along the same lines. Pre-
p ared for invocation or under study woro understood to be Artislus
3, 4, 8, 17, 18 and 19 of the Nationel Mobilization Law.
Under article 3 businesses dealing in commodities concerned
with National Mobilization needs will be controlled and their ac-
tivities directed to carry out onds determinod upon by tho Govern-
m ont.
Under article 4 the services of technicians, skillod laborers,
end leborers in generrl may be requisitionod for work in the muni-
tions industry, industries alliod to tho muniti ns industrios,
export industries end any other industry doomod vital to tho nation
in the present omergoncy situation. Approximately 200,000 graduates
of primery schools havo already beon solectod for training in cer-
tain industries, and it wes felt that many persons released from
privete employment when their present positions are terminated by
the rostricti:ns to bo put into forco would bo cveileble in largo
numbers to be engaged in the industries to bo expanded; while if
there wes still need for further laborors, agrerian leborers will
be turned to as well as those employed in non-essential peacetimo
industries which will be compelled to sacrificc more of their em-
ployees.
Under article 8 the Government is empowered to issue necessary
ordinancos for the control of the supplies of commoditios in pro-
duction, distribution, transfor, ropair, possession and transporta-
tion. Under Article 19 the Government will regulato comnodity
prices, freight rates, insurance charges end rents, Articles 17 and
18 provide for agreamonts to be entered into for the control of
production, sale, distribution, etc., of commodities and for
persons

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
-87-
persons engagod in enterprisos in the same lino to organizo an
associetion for the purposo of controlling the industry in which
thoy are ongegod.
At the seme time that those plens for oxpending production
end for material mobilization wero being drefted, e report was made
publio in June that a draft summery hed rlsc boon completod by the
Plsnning Boerd of the Cebinet for the mobilization of cnpitrl and
that shortly regulations for its uso would be issued. The Planning
Board reportedly was contemplating dividing capitel into two ceto-
gories, the first concerning instruments for concentrating funds,
such es ordinary financicl institutions, postal savings banks,
sevings bonks, insurance companies end mutuel financing conpanies,
and the second, for distributing capital such as public bonds,
funds for incronsing production and funds for development on the
Continent of Asic. It was stated that it was hoped to mobilize
a total of Yen 10,000,000,000, tho same anount involved in this
year's public savings campaign. After it is obtained its use and
i nvestment will be thoroughly controlled and dirocted into dosig-
nated chennels end projects.
In an addross nade by the Conmorce and Industry Minister beforo
that department's chiof officials, on June 16, the date thet
Ministry started on its operctien under its rcorgcnized structure
(see Monthly report for April for the provisions of tho roorganiza-
tion of this Ministry), Mr. Hatta is reported to have stated that
Jepan was now faced with the problem as to how to referm its entire
economic system in line with the ccmnodity price contrcl measuros
to be brought into force. He did not explein how this was to be
done, other than intinating that through the modium of the onforce-
ment of most, if not all,of the provisions of the National Mobiliza-
tion Law the problem would be worked out.
It

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
-88-
It is to be noted in the above connootinn that a good doal
of resentmont, if not criticisn, of the cormodity prico control
measures have boen voiced during the past two months. Tho nain
grgument against the measure was that although tho idea of keeping
down pricos to internstional levols was in itsolf excellent how
could it bo offected without irposing unduo herdship on industry,
particularly tho smaller concerns which still provided tho backbono
of Japan's economic structure. It was pointed out that theso
industries with limited capitel roserves could not sell their
products at economic prices without nll the contributory expenses
thet went into these prices clso being kept down, such as lnbor
wages, materiel costs, transportction, rent, insurance and neny
othore; together with a dofinite cssurence of en unchangod supply
of materials and an unchanged narket for thom. Doubt was expressed
in some quarters that the Government would or even could control
all these elements or that tho regulations could be made effective
to cover everything. Thero wes, however, no intimation given that
what tho Governnent docided upon would not bo fully complied with.
According to newspaper reports in Juno it is understood that
the Government has under consideration a new system to concentratc
all foreign exchange funds in tho yen bloc into one pool. It was
stated that it is impossible as yot to put into practico the envisag-
ed material nobilization plans for all the yon bloc areas, but
thet as a step loading up to this cim ond to tide over tho dis-
location of resources and needs of the verious aroas, a pool of
the foreign exchnnge funds might be sot up and distributed anong
the different regions on rtion-l proportions.
(b)

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
(b) Foroign Trade Commission of the Department of Commorce.
A good deal of discussion took place during the month undor
review over e proposal mr do by the War Ministor that a Foreign
Trade Ministry be est blished in tho Govornment such as is comion
in the totalitarien states of Europe. It was understood thct
othor officials in the Govornment wore opposed to the idea.
Finelly on June 20 it wes ennouncod that a compromise had been
arrived at and that, instond of & Ministry, a Foreign Trado Con-
mission would be set up under the jurisdiction of tho Departmont
of Cormerco and Industry as an advisory body. It would, however,
be directly responsible to tho Cabinot.
(c) Changos in Japanese Foroign Exchengo Control Law.
An ordinance was promulgatcd on June 23 to bocono effoctive
July 1 which provided that the total nmount of yen which trovellors
going abrond could convort into foroign curroncy without spocial
permits would be 500 yen and th:t a definite limit of only 200 yen
could be brouglht into Jepan by persons coning from broed. Prior
to this orcinence travellors could convert 2,ooo yen into foreign
currencies and no linit wes stipul tcd in rogard to tho cnount to
be brought into Japan. The provision pleced on the inportation of
currency was aimed apparently t eliminating tho practice of inport-
ing yen currency at very cheup rates in China and elsewhere
abroad.*
(a) Law for tho Protoction of Military Rescurces Secrets.
On June 26 there went into effect tho Law for the Protectin
of Military Rosourccs Sccrets (seo Eabassy's despatch no. 3714,
Mnrch 1, 1939 fcr the provisi ns of this law). B tho provisions
of this law no informaticn could be roloased in rogard to imports
of
* Embassy's despctch 4005, Junc 30, 1939.

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
of, production of, capacity for production of, factories end
persons engeged in produotion of cortnin articles. It was an-
nounoed thet inoluded among these artiolos, in rogard to which
informotion could not bo divulged, wero tho following: airplanes,
thoir fusolngos, motors, propollers and parts, notor trucks, noto
buses, stoam locomotives, aviction gasolinc, eviation oils,
benzine and carbolic acid, minerals and netals including cluninun,
bauxite, negnesium, nickel, forro-nickel, mercury, tungston, ore,
ferro-tungsten, molybdenum ore, forro-molybdenum, nanganese oro,
ferro-manganese, ferro-chronium, cobalt, forro-vanadium and
aluminun elloys.
IV. COUSER OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to roport.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
The Ministry of Finance issued on June 13 China Incidont Bonds
in the ancunt of Yen 400,000,000, Yon 100,000,000 being accepted
by the Deposit Burecu end Yon 300,O00,O00 bv the Bank of Japen.
A substantially large issue was disposed of to the public through
post offices, by the end of the month, some in bonds of denomina-
tion of Yen 10 and Yen 20.
In a speech mede by the Parliamentary Finance Vice Minister
on June 15, he is reported to have stated in part that the Govern-
ment had spent Yen 12,000,000 since the beginning of the "China
Incident" to carry on the hostilities up to that date, but that
the aggregate national earnings were estimated at approximately
Yen 80,000,000, and that accordingly only about 40 per cent of the
total national earnings were expended in connection with tho China
Affair. According to his statement also total tax receipts in
the amount of Yen 2,330,000,000 for the present fiscal year were
estimated

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
ostimated and the issuance of Government bonds for tho same poicd
had boen set at Yon 6,000,000,000.
Two reduotions wore made by the Bank of Japan during he molith
under review in its buying price of silver. The first reduction .
a reduction of Yen 1.07, was made on June 21. The second was made
on June 28 when the buying prico was lowored by Yen 1.68, bringine
the rate to Yen 45.96 per kilogram. Both of these reductions ware
attributed to the fall of silver in London which in turn was said to
have been caused by the uncertainty in the futuro policy of the Unit
States Treasury in regard to its purchase of silver.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.*
Further strengthening of state economic control, renowed out-
breaks on the Manchuria-Outer Mongolian borders, the suspension of
official control over the selling of foreign exchange in Shanghai,
and the Japanese blockade of the British and French Concessions in
Tientsin all contributed to a cautious and apprehensive business
sontiment during Juno. New economic control measures enforced
during the month included an ordinanco promulgated on May 27, and
effective the same date, placing the export of major chomical fer-
tilizers under the license system. Effective May 25 tho oxport
of ropes, tape, toys, ctc., containing wool was placed under the
link system allowing the import of one balo of wool for the export
of ll0 pounds of woollen goods. Effective July 1 tho Cotton
Demand Supply Adjustment Council was to assume control of all kinds
of yarns in a swoeping reform plan for the distribution and control
of fibrous materiels. It was also reported during the month that
te Ministry of Commorce and Industry had completed plans for the
establi shment
Propared with the assistance of the Office of the Commercial
Attachó.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
-32-
ostablishment of a large-scale joint sales company which would
manage all sales in Japan of crudo oil, heavy oil, gasolins anl
synthotic oil. The firm would be formod by the unification cf
prosent organizations concorned with the salo of potroloum products
and would have charge over prices, quantitios and distribution of
such products. It was announced toward the end of the month that
the Government had docided to put under direct Government control
the shipping bueiness in Japan. By means of this control the
authorities reportedly intend to link the shipping businoss with
the materials, production expansion program and the commodity mobili-
zation program of Japan. The decision for such control was adopted
instoad of a. joint Government-business council which had been previou
ly proposod as cmothod to rogulete the activities of the shipping
i ndustry.
Commodity prices in gonerel were still moving upward during
the menth elthough a moderate chock hnd beon exerted in & few in-
stances. The prico of raw silk during June slumped perceptibly
with quotations dropping ns much as Yen 170 per bale. Tho stock
markot exporiencod somc wide fluctuations ns  rosult of the drop
in the value of Chinese currency t Shanghci on Juno 8. During
the rest of the month treding on tho merket was dull oxcept for some
aggressive purcheses of continental industrirl shores such es the
North China Development Company and the Contrel China Promotion Comp
The price index in June, cccording to statistics published by the
Commerce and Industry Ministry, dropped by some .7 por cont fron
those of May but were 13.9 per cent higher than in June 1938. The
drop in the June index over May was the rosult of a 1.3 per cent
fal1

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
fell in the price of clothing and .9 por cont fall in tho price cf
food, Misoellaneous erticles and particularly imported goods,
howovor, continuod to riso during the month.
Foroign Trade.
Foroign trade during tho month of Juno was slightly less than
that for tho previcus month but in regard to tho corresponding poric
in l938 tho value of exports and imports wcre increased. The figures
given out for tho foreign tredo for Juno are: exports
Yen 230,816,000 and imports Yon 184,800,000 showing a favorable
balance of exports ovor imports of Yon 56,000,000. The figuros for
the first half of tho year were exports Yen 1,615,526,000 and
imports Yen 1,590,21l,000 resulting in a fevorable belance of trade
for that period of Yen 25,315,000. These figuros compere with ex-
ports of Yon 1,287,801,000 cnd imports of Yen 1,483,212,000 for
1938 and repr sent a 25 per cont increase in exports cnd only a
7 per cent increase in imports. It is to be noted, however, that
exports to tho so-called "yen-bloo" aroas of Menchuria, Kwantung and
Chinn cnd also including Hong Kong were during the first six months
of the year Yen 741,652,000 while at thc same time imports were
only Yen 385,719,000. Thero was, thoroforo, an unfavorable balance
of trade with the rest of the world of approx matoly Yen 344,200,000.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CONMERCIAL ITERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLATROUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTLENT
FoaDato
subjoot
3919
Juno 3
Andorson Moyer, etc. - Right of Amorican citizens
to travel on tho Yangtzo.
3923
Juno 1
British ships interned in Pearl River.
3924
June 1
Japanese ship inspoctors - Panama Canal.
3925
June 1
Mothodist Episcopal Mission, Pution. Bombing.
3926
June 2
Sixth quartor examinetion of Mr. Glon W. Bruner.
3927
Juno 5
American Prosbyterian Mission South, Suchowfu.
3928
June 5
Memorandum of remerks of Brazilian Military Attaché.
3929
June 6
Publication, CONTMPORARY MANCHURIA.
3930
Juno 5
Golden Gate International Exposition.
3931
June 8
Report by local authorities to American consular
officers of deaths of Americans.
3932
June 6
Original Japanese restoration notice of 1868.
3933
June 6
Tempcrary translator, Konkichi Mori.
3934
June 7
Transmittal of translation of shipbuilding
industry law.
3935
Juno 7
Transmission of publication (Mandate report).
3936
June 7
Strictly confidential.
3937
June 7
Japanose reaction to tho Kulangsu affair.
3938
June 7
Intornational Congross of Mathomaticians.
3939
June 7
Reprosentation of American currency notes on
articlos made in Japan.
3940
Juno 7
Stenderd-Vacuum Oil Company, Lachokow. Bombing.
3941
June 8
British reprosentations re Peking-Mukden Railway.
3942
June 8
Internationel Congress of Aeronautical Sciences.
3943
June 8
Marshall Field and Compony, Swatow. Bombing.
3944
June 8
Tobacco tax discrimination  British representations
3945
June 8
British represontations re Tientsin-Pukow Railway.
3946
June 8
Standard Vacuum Oil Company Installation, Foochow,
endangered by Japanese bombing.
3947
June 9
Fur trade restrictions in North China.
3948
June 9
Rayon Pulp Quota.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
subjoot
8995
Juno 81
situetion at Tiontsin.
5974
Juno 21
Amorioan Proporty Lossos Resulting ror Sino-Jayene
Hostilitios l937-l939: Soizure by Japanoso Mililery
Oil Stocks Bolonging to Texas Co. (uhina) J.td.
3975 June 21
Amorioan Proporty Lossos Rosulting frcm Bino-Jerano:
Hostilities, 1937-1939: Amorican Evengelicl Missic
Shiuhing, Kwangtung.
3976 June 21
Amorican Proporty Losses Resulting from Sino-Japanc.
Hostilities 1937-1939: West China Union University.
Chengtu, Szochuan.
3977 Juno 21
American Property Losses Resulting from Sino-Japane
Hostilities 1937-1939: Amoricen Methodist Episcopal
Mission, Chungking.
3978 June 21
TRANSIITTAL OF TRANSLATIONF OF LAWS RELATING TO
THE SHIPPING INDUSTRY.
3979
June 21
Amorican Property Lossos Resulting from Sino-Japanc.
Hostilitios 1937-1939: Southern Baptist Mission,
Shiuchow, Kwangtung, China.
3980
June 22
Fur Trado Restrictions in North China.
3981
June 22
Japaneso Interferonce with British Ships in Chinos
Waters.
3982
June 22
Japan. Advertisor Annucl Review, 1938-1939.
3983
June 22
Netional Mobilization and the Dovelopment of
Autarchy in Japan.
3984
Juno 22
Amorican Property Losses Rosulting from Sino-
Japanoso Hostilitios, 1937-l939. Mothodist
Episcopal Mission, Futien, Fukion.
3985
Juno 22
Japaneso Restrictions on British Trade in the
Yangtzo Doltc.
3986
June 22
Japanose Discrimination 'Against Foroign Shipping
nt Tsingtao 'Tharves: British Roprosontations.
3987
Juno 22
American intorests in and noar Tientsin.
3988
Juno 22
Situntion nt Kulengsu.
3989
Juno 22
Bombing by Japonose Plenos of American Property
in China.
Protection
3990
Juno22
Lof British Livos and Property at Shanghai, and
anti-British Agitation in Japanese Controlled Areas.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
ubjogt
9095
June s1
Situation at Tiontsin.
5974 Juno 21
Amorioan Proporty Lossos Resulting rcm ino-Japene
Host1litios i937-l939: Soizure by Japanoso Militery
Oil Stooks Bolonging to Texas Co. ((hina) Itd.
3975 June 21
Amorican Proporty Lossos Rosulting frcm 3irc-Jarans:
Hostilities, 1937-1939: Amorican Evangelic Missic
Shiuhing, Kwangtung.
3976
June 21
American Proporty Losses Resultins from Sino-Japane
Hostilities i937-1939: West China Union University.
Chengtu, Szochuan.
3977
Juno 21
American Property Losses Resulting from Sino-Jap
Hostilities 1937-1939: Amoricen Methodist Episcopal
Mission, Chungking.
3978 June 21
TRANSIITTAL OF TRANSLATIOIF OF LAWS RELATING TO
THE SHIPPING INDUSTRY.
3979
June 21
Amorican Property Losses Resulting from Sino-Japano.
Hostilitios 1937-1939: Southern Baptist Mission,
Shiuchow, Kwengtung, China.
3980
Juno 22
Fur Trado Restrictions in North China.
3981
June 22
Jepeneso Interferonce with British Ships in Chinos
Waters.
3982
June 22
Japan. Advertisor Annuel Review, 1938-1939.
3983
Juna 22
Netional Mobilization and the Dovelopmont of
Autarchy in Japan.
3984
June 22
Amorican Property Losses Rosulting from Sino-
Japanoso Hostilitios, 1937-1939. Mothodist
Episcopcl Mission, Futien, Fukion.
3985
Juno 22
Japaneso Restrictions on British Trado in the
Yangtzo Doltc.
3986
June 22
Japanose Discrimination Against Foroign Shipping
at Tsingtao 'Tharvos: British Roprosontations.
3987
Juno 22
Amorican intorests in and noar Tientsin.
3988
Juno 22
Situntion at Kulengsu.
3989
Juno 22
Bombing by Japonose Plenos of American Proporty
in China.
Protection
3990
Juno.22
Lof British Livos and Property at Shanghai, and
anti-British Agitation in Japanese Controlled Areas.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
No. Date
Subjeot
3991 June 22
British Clnims Against the Japanese Government for
Property Losses in China.
3992
June 22
North China Trade Restrictions: American, British,
and Frenoh Representations.
3993
June 22
Japanese use of Chinese Customs Administration in
connection with interforence with foreign shipping
in China: British Representations.
3994
June 23
Transmitting Impressions of Embasy Seal.
3995
June 23
Letters Rogatory, Minami Case.
3996
June 24
Diplomatic Visa Report.
3997
June 26
American Proporty Losses Resulting from Sino-
Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939, American Presby-
torian Mission, Mancheng.
3998
June 27
Protection of Foreign Property in China.
3999
June 17
Report of Conditions in Japan during the month
of May, 1939.
4001
June 28
Cluims for Americen Property Losses in China Result.
ing from Sino-Jepaneso Hostilitios, 1937-1939?
Mr. C. Yates McDaniel, NANKING.
4002
June 27
Embassy Ground Rent.
4003
Juno 28
Brezil-U.S.: Publication of Article "The Golden
Key" in JAPAN ADVERTISE.
4004
June 30
Third Quartor Examination of Mr. J. Dixon Edwerds.
4005
June 30
Changes in Japanese Foroign Exchange Control Law.
4006
June 30
Fuel Oil Contract.
4007
June 30
Arrost of Marcelo Tan, Philippine Citizen, at Amoy.
4008
June 30
Japanese Interference with British Trade in the
Yangtzo Delte end use of Customs Administration
in Connecticn with Interference with Foreign
Shipping: British Representations.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING JUNE 1939
No. Date
Subjoct
251 June 1, 1 p.m.
Washing: and painting Embassy Buildings.
252 June 1, 4 p.m.
Despatch of Japenese werships to Golden
Gato Exposition.
253 Jung 1, 5 p.m.
Standerd Vecuum Oil Company, Foochow.
Risk of property duo to Japanese Bombing
254 June 1, 6 p.m.
Return of Mrs. Berntson and son to Hanko
255
June 1, 8 p.m.
Visit of U.S.S. TRINITY
256
Juno 2, 11 a.m.
Requisitions.
257
June 2, 3 p.m.
Courier scrvice, Poiping-Tokyo.
258 Jung 3, noon
Japanese interference with customs at
Wuchnng and Hankow.
259 June 4, 10 n.m.
Fur Trede in North China.
260 June 5, 11 a.m.
Seimure of launch belonging to Standard
Vacuum Oil Company.
261 Jun0 5, 6 p.m.
Internctionel Settlomonts -- statement
of Foreign Office Spokesman.
262 June 6, 4 p.m.
Pay allotmont forms.
263 June 6, 6 p.m.
North China Trade Rostrictions. Nows-
peper acccunt of measures to be insti-
tuted.
264 June 7, 9 p.m.
Fronch ropresentetions regarding intor-
netional settloments in China.
265 Jun0 8, 7 p.m.
Possible allinnco of Gormony-Italy-Jepan
in relation to Europcon situation.
266 June 9, 5 p.m.
Contingent exponses - roport on allotment
267 June 10, 3 p.m.
Difficultics in British Concession,
Tientsin.
268 June 12, noon
North Chin: Trade Restrictions - Repre-
sentations mrdo.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
No. Dato
Subjoct
269 June 12, 1 p.m.
Conversotion botwoen Mr. Doomen and r.
Sawade regerding concession difficultios.
270 June 13, 6 p.m.
Statement of Jepaneso Consul Coneral et
Amoy.
271 Juno 13, 7 p.m.
Tiontsin situttion.
272 Jun3 14, 10 a.m.
Japenose reply to represontations con-
corning bombing of Mothodist Episcopal
Mission, Pution, Fukien.
273 June 14, 6 p.ra.
British represontation rogarding Japanoce
militery statoment at Tiontsin.
274 Juno 15, 5 p.m.
Japanosc-British difficulties at Tiontsin
275 Juno 16, 4 p.m.
North China Fur Trade Restrictions -
Representations Made.
276 June 16, 5 p.m.
Passago of Turkish Ambassador's Chinese
servant through tho U.S.
277 Jun0 17, 11 a.m.
Situntion at Tientsin.
278 June 17, noon
Kulangsu Interntionsl Sottlomont.
279 June 17, 6 p.m.
Continued bombing of American property
in Chin
280 June 19, 11 .m.
Roprosentrtions rogerding Japanoso in-
terferenco t internstionl settloment
t Kulrngsu.
281 Jun0 19, 5 p.n.
Cipher t bles.
282 Juno 19, 6 p.m.
Cipher t:bles.
283 Junc 19, 7 p.m.
Representctions rogording bombing of
American property in Chinc.
234 June 19, 8 p.n.
Doonan-Irita intorview rogerding settlemei
of Tientsin difficultios.
285 Juno 20, 10 a.m.
Truck for carrying pouches .
286 June 21, noon
Ro publicati n of notes on continued bomb.
ing of Americon property in Chine.
287 Jun0 21, 2 p.m.
Amcrican Prosident Lines - Exchango
difficultics.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
No. Date
Subjoct
288 June 21, 5 p.m.
Anderson Moyer property ct Kiukiang
289 June 22, 1 p.m.
Requesting cooporetion to avoid damage to
foreign property in China -- noto from
Foreign Office.
290 June 22, 2 p.m.
Representetions rogarding indignities
henpcd upon British netionals at Tiont sir
291 June 23, 1 p.m.
Tomporary omploymont of Miss Glaesor.
292 June 23, 2 p.m.
Represontctions regcrding arrest of
Mercelo Tan at Kulengsu.
293 June 23, 3 p.rn.
Reprosentations regeraing Kulangsu.
294 June 24, noon , Proposed round table conference rogcrding
difficultics ct Tiontsin.
295 June 24, 6 p.n.
Foreign Minister's statement to British
Ambassador regerding Tientsin Negotiation:
296 June 26, 5 p.m.
Round table conferences regarding Tiontsi
difficulties.
297 June 26, 6 p.m.
Estimate of Tientsin situction.
298 June 27, 3 p.11.
Publishing of notes regarding continued
bombings of American property in China.
299 Juno 27, 4 p.n.
Proposed round table conference in Tokyo.
300 June 28, 3 p.n.
Living Quartcrs Allowanco, F. A. Schulor.
301 June 28, 5 p.m.
Control of distribution and sale of
potroleun products.
302 Junc 29, 3 p.n.
Requisitions.
303 June 29, 4 p.m.
U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
304
Juno 29, 6 p.m.
Tientsin situction.
305
Juno 30, 11 .n.
Cost of living cllowance, Gortrude Beer.
306
June 30, 4 p.m.
Tientsin situntion.
307
June 30, 7 p.m.
Rotention of Hcllond ot Shanghai.
308 June 30, 8 p.n.
Represent tions concerning Ancricen
Presbyteri n Mission at Nodoc, Hrinan.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.89)
OF THE
INTENNATIONAL ECONONG ANFE
Toy,   E
AMERICAN EMBASSTEBAL ADVISER
No. 4043
SEP 9 1939
SUBJECT: REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MOBEPERIMENT OF STATE
OF JUNE, 1939.
4
2
AA
2
E
7
nn
The Honable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With referonce to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Inbassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
894.00
montiof June, 1939.
Respectfully yours,
(uslue  Dooaca
Eugene H. Dooman,
R
000
Chargé d'Arfaires ad interim.
JE:C
Enclosure
Roport No. 153.
55
6
Copy to Rmbassy, Peiping;
3
n
3
Chungking;
SEP161935
FLE
Moscow
Consulate Goneral, Shanghai
n
n
Mukden
n
Harbin
F
n
n
Seoul
Consulate, Dairen
Osaka
Kobe
Commander-in-Chier of the U.S. Asiatio Fleet.
In quintuplicate to the Department,

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 154
REPORT OF CONDITIOIIS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JULY 1939.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.97)
INDEX ANDSUMMARY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STA ES:
(a) Japaneso Bombing of Chungking
1, 2
(b) Bombing cf Aaoricnn Mission Proporties
in China
3
(c) Intornat onal Settlomont at Amoy
(a) Assaults on Amcricans in China
(e) Amcrican Prosidont Linos
5,6
(f) Other Reprosontations
6,7
(g) Tormination of the Troaty of Commercc and
Navigation Botwoon tho Unitod Statos
and Japen
7,8,9
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Groat Britain
1. Anglo-Japaneso Conforenco at Tokyo
Concorning tho Situation at Tiontsin . .10;11,
12,13,14,
2.
Japaneso Intorferonco with British
Shipping in Chincso Waters
15
3.
Other Reprosontations mado by the
British Embassy
15,16
(b) China
Military Operatious
16,17
Concral Relations
17,13
(c) Russia
1. "Hanchuluo"-Outer Hongolian
Bordor Clashos
18,19
2. Jananose Concessions in North
Saghalicn
19,20
(a)
Gormany
20,21
(2)
Latin Am rica
21,22
(r)
Theiland
22
(g)
Iraq
22
(h)
Bulgaria
22

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Cabinot.
23
(b) Dict Elocticn of thc Houso of Poors
23
(c) Navy
24
(d) Forcign Office
24,25
(c) Governnent Procluations
Invocation of Lalor Conscription Ordinanco .25,26
(f) Important Statomonts of Govornment Officials 26 27
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLITION
Nothing to roport.
V.
GOVERIMEINT FINANCE
27,28
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
29,30,
31
Foroign Trado
31,32
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AIERICAN COMIERCLAL INTERESTS
Nothing to report.
VTII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COIIERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothing to ryport.
IX.
LABOR.
Hothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS
Nothing to r port.
000 000 00C

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Japanese Bombing of Chungking
. On July 8 Mr. Dooman called on the Director of
the American Bureau of the Foreign Office and again on
July 10 on the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, in con-
*
formity with the Department:s instructions, made emphatic
representations against the Japanese bombing operations
at Chungking on July , 7, and , during which some bombs
had fallen in the immediate vicinity of the American
Embassy residence, others had badly damaged the Lewis
Memorial Institutional Church of the Methodist Episcopal
Mission, and another had nearly hit the U.S.S. TUTUILA,
**
the American gunboat stationed at Chungking.
The
Forcign Minister, aftor Mr. Dooman's oral ropresentations
to him, statod that he was distressed to learn that
Mr. Johnson and his staff had been put in joopardy. He
said, however, that he could not promiso that tho bombing
of Chungking would cease as attack from the air was an
important and effective phase of Japanese military opera-
tions, but added that communications had been sont to the
Navy Department requosting that some new method bo devised
to safoguard Amorican lives and property. Mr. Dooman thon
pointed out that if the oporations continued to bo car-
ricd out as they had been it was inevitablo that sooner
***
or later a serious situation would arise.
On July 18,
****
in accordanco with the Departmont's furthor instructions
in the matter, Mr. Dooman again callod at tho Foreign
offico
Department's tolegran No. 186, Ju'y 7, 8 p.n.
Chungking's tolograms Nos. 425, July 6, 10 a.m.,
429, July 7, noon.
***
Embassy's tologram No. 317, July 9, noon,
No: 320, July 10, '4 p.n.
Embassy's despatch No. 4030, July 1ó, 1939.
***
Departmont's tu1ogran No. 202, July 15, 6 p.m.
一

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Office and left with tho Diructor of tho Amorican Bureau
*
a copy of a tologram from Mr. Johnson in connoction with
Mr. Arita's statomont that atiack from thc air on Chung-
king "was an inportant und offoctivo phaso of military
oporations". Ir. Johnson gave as his firm boliof foundod
on his past obsorvations and nowlodgo of Japanoso air-
raids that thoso bombings woro indiscriminatoly carriod
out with thc doliberato intention of torrorizing tho
unarmod population of Chungking; that tho bombing had
moroly killod thousands of innocont mon, womon, and child-
ron in thc firos startod by thc incendiary bombs without
damaging or hitting objocts of military charactor; and
that this typo of bombing rosultod sololy in building up
a spirit of rosistance of tho pooplo and blasting doopor
a chasm botwcon tho Chinoso and Japanoso pcoplos and thus
furthor postponing tho ostablishnont of that peaco which
tho Japaneso had so ofton caid was the objoct of thoir
**
campaign on tho Continent.
At tho timo of loaving a copy of this tolccram with
tho Foroign Offico, Mr. Dooman also roforred to tho state-
mont nado by the Counsclor of tho Japanoso Enbassy at
***
Washington to tho Dopartment on July 5
in which ho dos-
cribod tho procautions taken by tho Japanoso forcos to
protoct Amorican proporty and advisod that it was dif-
ficult for tho Amcrican Govornment to roconcilo that
statomont with Mr. Johnson's roport.
(b) Bombing
*
Chungking's No. 433, July 13, noon.'
**
Embassy's tologram No. 340, July 18, 8 p.m.
***
Dopartmont's tologram No. 183, July 6, 7 p.m.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
(b) Bombing of Anerican Mission Properties in China
On July 17 a note was received by the Embassy from
393.1163
the Foreign Office in reply to tho Embassy representations
made on May 22 in regard to tho recr
nou t that timo
of Japanese bombings of American mission properties in
China. This note reiterated the Japanese statements,
previously made to the Enbassy, that the Japanese air
forces were paying the strictest attention to the pro-
tection of the rights and interests of American property
in China; and that in regard to the Embassy's statement
that bombings of the property vere vieved by t he American
Government as especially flagrant, both the civil and
military autliorities of the Japanese Government had in-
variably consicered in good faith the protoction of
American rights anc interests in China. Regrot was
expressed over the incidonts of bombing such as the
cases at Tangho and Tungpeh but it was stated that in-
juries to these properties ofton were caused by tho fact
that property of Amcrican nationals had given the appear-
ance of that of the enemy or for the reason of close
proximity of enemy troops or omplacomonts to such Ameri-
can property. It was then again statod that tho Japanese
Government would tako all possible measures to protect
Amorican righits and intercsts in China; but the United
States was roquested to cooperate fully with Japan by
preventing Chinose forcos from utilizing Amorican property
or by prohibiting Chineso military mplacements to bo
sot up closo by Amorioan propurty.
(c) Internatiunal

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
(c) International Sottloment at Anoy
It will be rocalled that a number of ropresonta-
tions woro mado by tho Embassy during the month of Juno
in rogard to tho interforonco placod by tho Japanose
authorities and tho Japanoso-sponsorod rogimo at Amoy
in the way of supplios of fuol and food rcaching tho
Intornational Sottlemont at Tulangsu. In accordanco
with tho Dopartrnont's instructions, further reproson-
tations in this matter woro mado by tho Embassy to tho
水
Foroign Office. Con orsations wero also hold by Mr.
Dooman with officials of tho Forcign Offico over the
gonorally unfavorablo situation at Kulangsu whore nothing
socmingly was being acconplished towards the straightoning
out of tho difficulties ovor tl continued stationing of
marines thore, and cver the Japanose domands of tho Muni-
cipal Council. A suggostion was "udo by Mr. Dooman to
the Foroign Offico that, as a step towards the rostora-
tion of normal conditions, the marino dotachments of the
various natioralitics including the Japanoso bo sinul-
tancously withdrawn. This suggostion was favorably
reccived by tho Japan so authorities in Tokyo but it was
hold by those authorities that this quostion would have
to bo takon up with and docidcd by tho Japancso naval
officor in Amoy.
It is noted in this connoction that tho Counsclor
of the Japaneso Embassy at Manhington had callcd at the
Department on July 13 and had stated that his Govornment
was anxious to resolvo tho issues at Kulangsu and to
*
withdraw its landing party as soon as possible.
(a)
Assaults
U partmont's tulogram No. 184, July 6, 8 p.m.
Embassy's tulogram No. 321; July 10; 5 p.m.
Enbassy's telogran No. 329; July 15; 5 p.m.
**
Embassy's tulogram No. 338, July 18, 7 p.m.
Denartmonts tclcgram No. 24, July 14, 6 p.m. to Amoy.

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
(a)
Assaults on Americans in China
On July 10 representations were made to the Foreign
Office in regard to the slanping of two American citizens,
Miss Hannah Stocks and Ln. irsion Haskoll, by a Japanese
sentry at Wuhu on July 5. On July 18 representations were
also made in regard to the assaults made on Mr. Charles W.
Worth and Mr. Kephler Van Evro on July 12 by a Japanese
consular police officer at Hangchow. Mr. Dooman on this
latter occasion informed the Director of the American
Bureau of tho action taken in the matter by the American
**
Consul General at Shanghai
and strongly surported 
Mr. Gauss's representations to the effect that these recent
instances of brutal and unprovoked assaults by the Japanese
military on American citizens were most seriously regarded
and that effective steps sh ula be taken by te Japanese
authorities that no further assaults on or mistreatment
of American citizens snculd occur. The Enbassy was later
advised that an investigation had been made of these cases
**
and that the Japanese rosponsible had been punished.
(c)
Amcrican Prosident Lines
The Eubassy had made during recent months periodic
representations to the Japanese Government in regard to
the long delays which the Amcrican President Lines had
been experioncing in securing exchango undor tho present
Japanoso exchange control systom for tho remittance to
the United States of its yen carnings. Following theso
reprosentations facilities for tho ronission of blocked
funds
*
Embassy's tologran o. 26, July 12, 1 p..
**
Shanghai's tologram No. Sl, July 17, 7 p..
**
Embassy's tolegram No. 351, July 22, 6 p.m.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6-
funds of tho Company wore grantod but thoroafter tho
samo situation aroso whoroin tho Company found itsolf
unablo to romit the noxt poriod's accumulated balanoos.
Furthor roprosontations woro again mado during tho month
undor roviow in this regard. Pormission for tho romis-
sion of blockod funds for tho months of Anril and May
were socurod and tho assurancc of tho Forcign Offico was
also rocoivod that a reply would bo given during tho woek
of August 14 in rogard to tho automatic supplying of
*
oxchango to tho Company aftor the ond of oach month.
(f) Other Ropresontations
The Embassy approachod tho Foroign Offico on sovoral
occasions during July in rogard to tho offorts of the
Amorican Consul Gonoral at Hankow to got into communica-
tion with the Roverond L. W. Holland at Nanchang, in
rogard to tho Dopartmont's concorn ovor tho welfaro of
Mr. Holland and also in rogard to tho oxpodition of
arrangoments for a mombor of tho Consulato Gonoral at
Hankow to prococd to iukiang, Kuling, and Nanchang, in
ordor to ascortain tho welfaro of Lr. Iolland and the
other Amoricans at thoso placcs. The Enbassy was informed
by thc Foroign Officc thut a corununication back and forth
botwoon tho Consulatc Goneral and Mr. Holland had boon
offectod by the Jupanoso military. No arrangomonts, how-
ovor, had boen arrived at by the ond of tho month for a
reprcsontativo of tho American Consulato Genoral at Hankow
to proceod to Nanchang.
*
During
*
Dopartmont's tolegram No. 177, July 29, 6 p.m.
Embassy's tologran No: 359; July 24, '6 p.m.
Embassy's tolocran No: 38o; August 1, 7 p.m.
**
Embassy's telegra. No. 330, July 14; 4 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No: 346; July 21; 1 p.m.
Enbassy's telegram No: 352, July 22; 8 p.m.
Eabassy's telegram No. 350, July 24, 5 p.m.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7 -
During the month of July the Embassy made repres-
entations to the Foreign Office concerning American
property losses in China in the folloving instances. *
Machine-gunning of Fukion Christian University,
Foochow, Fu'zien.
Machine-gunning and bonbing of Union High School,
Foochow, Fukien.
Bombing of Presbyterian Mission North, Changteh,
Hunan.
Bonbings at Chungking.
Bombing of Lutheran Un ted Mission, Kioshan, Honan.
Bombing of American Dominican Mission, Kienow, Fukien.
Bombing of American Catholic Mission, Likiatu, Kiangsi.
Occupation of Palmetto Presbyterian Mission, Soochov,
Kiangsu.
Bonbin; or Levis Lemorial Institutional Church,
Ciungking, Szechwan.
Bombing of Sevonth Doy Adventist Mission, Changteh,
Hunan.
Bombing of Lutheran Brethren Mission, Tangho, Honan.
Arrest of Marcelo Tan, Plilippine citizen.
Bombing of Seventh Day Adventist Hission, Chuanchov,
Fukien.
(g)
Temmination of the Troaty of Commerce and
Jivigat on Between the Uilited Stutes and Jenar
The Department informed the Japanese Government
tlirough its Eibassy at Washincton on July 26 of the
United States Govornment's notice of the termination of
the Treaty or Comncrce and Navigation of 19ll between
the United States and Japan and that in accordance with
the provisions of the Treaty it would expire in six
months'
These roprosentations were reported in the following dos-
patches which are listed in uhe sane order us the above
representaticns: Nos. 4C10, July 5; 4019, July 6; 4020,
Ju1y 6; 4030, July 10; 4032 Ju1y 13; 4033,July 13; 4034,
Ju1y 13; 4036, Ju1y 14; 4038, Ju1y 13; 4039, Ju1y 18; 4047,
Ju1y 24; 4048, Ju1y 24; 4050, July 25.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
- 0 -
months' time.
Announcement of this notice was given in Japan on
the samo day in a statement issued by the Forcign Office.
In the statement official comments wore also made in
regard to the United States' action. It was declared
that the reasons given by tho United States Governnent
for its "sudden" stop woro so brief that tho motivo
undorlying tho action was not apparont and that it could
not bo undorstood why tic notico had beon given in such
a "hasty and abrupt mannor". It was suggostod that this
action might bo intorprotod as having a political signi-
ficanco in conncction with thc proposal of Sonator Vandon-
burg for tho abrogation .f tho Troaty and also in connec-
tion with the Anglo-Japanosc conversations that wero then
in progress. Tho statomont was concludod with tho remarts
that the Japanose Govornmont vould bo roady to nogotiato
at any time, if the American Government dosired to do so,
a now treaty "in conformity with the new situation in East
Asia".*
Nows of the notice of tormination of tho Troaty was
givon the fullest publicity and hoavily featured in Jopan
and comments upon it were offored in cditorials in all
nowspapers.
In the pross articlos omphasis was primarily
placed on the suddenness of the step and on the lack of
any prior intimation that such an  ct had been under con-
templation by the United States. Reaction to tho move
echood to a largo cxtent tho comments of tho Foreign Offico
that were given in the statemont referred to in tho fore-
going. Expressions of incomprohonsion of the motives
bohind
*
Embassy's tclogram No. 366, July 28, 11 a.m.

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
behind tho movo woro voiccd in tho oditorials followod
by various conjocturos thorcon. Thoso cmbracod tho
opinions that intornal political conditions in tho Unitod
Statos had a largo bearing on tho action in that it was
dono to undorscoro tho continuod maintonanco by tho Adninis-
tration of its foroign policy and rostoro its prostigo
damagod by tho failuro of tho Congross to support the
Administration in its ondoavors to rovise tho Noutrality
Act or onact tho Pittnan rosolution for tho embargo of
military supplios to Japan; also as a friondly and
oncouraging gosturo to Groat Britain in its nogotiations
with Japan in tho conversations that woro taking placo at
Tokyo. Thero woro ono or two puners which woro quite frank
in charactorizing tho act us an unfriondly onc; suggosting
that it was proparatory to tho United Statos invocating
oconomic sanctions against Jupan to onforco tho protoction
of Amorican intorcsts in China or that tho Unitcd States
was attompting to stop into tho positi n of tho protoctor
of tho Chinng Kai Shok rogino.
Howover, the tone of tho press on the wholo was
markodly rosorved and rostrainod. No bittor criticism
r ort c or antagonistic declarations soundod and
the goneral attitude taken was that Jipan should calaly
await dovelopmonts and watch for tho ovolvomont of what
this ction on tho part of the United Statos was to moan.
II
RELATIONS

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.97)
- 10 -
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Groat Britain
1.
Anglo-Jananesc Conforonce at Tokyo
Concorling the Sicuntno. et Tiontein
At the boginning of the month there arrived in Japan
741.44
tho Japanoso and British roprosontativos to the conforonce
that it had beon docided in tho lattor part of Juno would
bo hold in Tokyo over thc sottlorient of tho situation at
Tiontsin. (Soo Embassy's Morthly Report for June). Tho
Japanoso roprosontativos from China wore hoadod by the
Ministor to China, Mr. Sotonatsu Kato, and Major-Gonoral
Akira Muto, and tho British roprosontativos by Major G. A.
Horbert, British Consul at Tiontsin. Tho discussions, to
bo lod by the Junaneso Foroign Ministor Mr. Arita nd the
British Ambessador Sir Robort Craigis, wero schoduled to
open shortly thoroafter but did not finally start until
July 15.
On July 3 a statomont was issued by the War linistor
in Tokyo in vhich it was statod that the contral authoritios
in Japan complotoly approved of moasures taken by the
military in Ti mtsin ainst tuo British Concossion. It
further stated, hewever, that the Jupenese Army had no
"sinister intentions" against any tnird Power and that the
purposc of tho ponding conversations would bo sololy to
remove from the British Concossion all manifostations of
British hostility towards Japan. It was insisted that the
objective of tho Army was the modification of tho attitude
of thc local British authoritios in China which was held
to bo that of sunyorting the Chiang Kui Shok rogime and
hostility

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
- 11 -
hostility in many ways toward Japan.
In tho proparations that woro mado by tho Japanoso
Govor:mcnt for the negotiations during the two weeks before
the conference started, it was declared in the press that
the Army officials, together with the Foreign Office
authorities, were drawing up "minimum demands" to be made
on the British at the conference. The scope of these demands,
it was said, would go far beyond the initial question of the
dispute betveen Japan and Great Britain for the relinquishing
to the custody of the Japanese authorities the four alleged
Chinese terrorists held in Tientsin and would embrace con-
siderations of major importance and policy. Reference was
made by tho Army officials in various statomonts given out
in the press to tho comunications sent by tho Provisional
Governmont of North Chino to tho British and Fronch Enbas-
sics at Peiping and published on July 2, in which its
intentions towards the Concossions at Tiontsin were sot
forth in five "roprosontations".*
Thosc "represontations", it wus intinated, also cn-
bodiod tho Japonoso Army's viows in the matter of its
intontions in dcaling with tho Concessions. The Amy
insisted that besidos the acceptanco by the British of
moasures for thc completo contrel and supprossion of anti-
Japanose and anti-torrorist activitios in the Concossion,
financial and oconomic mattors must also be sottled with the
British as thuse matters diroctly concorned "tho safoty of
the Japanoce in North China" and tho accomplishment of the
Japneso aims in that area.
During
Peiping's tolograt: No: 324; July 2, 5 p.m.
Poipin': tolosrun No. 325, July 3, 6 p.m.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
- 12 -
During the same period the campaign in Japan against
Great Britain which had begun in June increased in vigor
and hostility. Mass moetings were held in all the large
cities of Japan. Anti-British postors were put up in all
conspicuous public places and in Tokyo parades were made
to the British Embassy. Petitions were signed making
extravagant demands for a change of the basic British
policy in the Far East and calling for the withdrawal
of the British from East Asia and the return of her Con-
cessions to China.
On July 13 Mr. Arita presunted to Sir Robert Craigie
the Japanese proposed agonda* for the discussions of the
Tientsin problen. These included three items: 1. General
relations; 2. Problems relating to tho maintenance of
peace and order; and 3. Frobloms relating to cconomic
matters. The Foreign Minister insisted that agreement on
the first point should proceod the discussions of points
2 and 3. This first point was that both governments
should agree to a statement thet there existed necessity
on the part of the Jupaneso forces in China to suppress
or ronove any icts or causes vhich obstructed them or
benofited the ir enory and the British Government and its
authorities in Chinn therefore would refrain from all
acts and measurcs which would nterfere with the Japaneso
forces in obtaining thoso objoctives.
The British at first objected to this forula on
three grounds: that it rolated to China as a whole; that
it askod tho British Government to agreo in advane to any
measures which tho Japanose military authoritios might soo
fit
*
Embessy'c talogran No. 333, July 15, 8 p.m.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.92)
- 13 
fit to tako; and that it imp iod that tho British had
hithorto countonanced ncts un: moasures intorforing with
the Jonenose meinsonosce or soeurry tr publie mdcr.
However, on July sl un a reoront wor cochea cn e a
which was substantioisy tlons the ines of the Japurece
original wording of tho sta omert. The stetoment w.s
roloasod in the press on July 24. The statomont road in
offect that the British Govern ont fully recognized that
hostilitios wero in progross in China; that as long as
that state of affairs continued to oxist tho Japanoso
forcos had special requiromonts to safoguard thoir own
socurity and rvintnin public ordor in the rogions undor
their control; that they had to suppross or romove such
acts or causes as would obstruct them or bonefit their
oneny; that the British Gcvervuent had no intertio. of
countonancing moamures pre julicial to the astaimrent of
theso objects; and than the British authoritics and
nationals in Chima shoull rorrain from any such moasures.
Although it was not given out at the time of the
publishing ef this cirtonent, it was understood thut the
Foroign Hinister had agrood to Pec gniz. that Groa Britain
had the right te quection the initiation of any act or
measuro by the Japanese authorities claimel to be falling
within the seope of military neccscity.
On Juiy 24 conversations cenacnced on the spocific
quostions on the agenda in regard to peace end order and
ccononic mesters.* On thes totere the capanere put
forward twelve points. These bodied roquests for the
apprehension
*
Embassy's tolograms Nos. 561, July 25; 4 p.m.
360, July 20; 2 p.m.
372, Ju1y 29, 3..

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.98)
- 14 -
apprehension within the British Concession of any anti-
Japanese or communist persons and for their surrender;
cooperation of the Japanese forces with British Concession
authorities in such apprehension; dismissal from the
Concession police of officers who were anti-Japanese;
the removal of silver from the Concession; the control
of Chinese banks, money exchange shops, etc., by the
local Chinese authorities; and prohibition within the
Concession of circulation of Chinese National currency.
No definite arrangements were agreed upon in these mat-
ters by the end of the month. It was understood that some
arrangement was hoped for in regard to the peace and order
questions but that there existed a wide difference of
opinion betwcen the British and Japanose in rogard to
currency and silvor quostions.
Fublication of the general agreement was hailod in
Japan as having a far-rcacling significance and as
indicating considerablo concossion mado by Great Britain
to Japan with the oxpressions made that Great Britain would
recognize the "now ordor in East Asia".* However, at the
samo timo the Japanese people vere cautioned that the real
significance of the agreoment would not be knovm until the
attitude of Groat Britain was ascortained in tho nogotia-
tions for the specific issucs and that tho statemont in
itsolf was insufficient.
The Prime Minister was reported in the press to have
said that the principles ombodied in tho general agrcement
were to be applicable to the whole of China. **
2.
Japanos
*
Embassy's tologram No. 349, July 22; 11 a.m.
**
Embassy's tologram No. 353, July 23, 10 a.m.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
- 15 -
2.
Japanoso Intorforonco with British Shipping
In Chinoso Wators.
It will bo rocallod that tho British Embassy had
during the past months made a nunber of roprosontations
to tho Japanoso Govornmont in regard to rostrictions
placod upon and intorforonco with British shipping in
Chinose wators. On July 1, in a momorandum lcft with
the Foreign Office, tho British Ambassador mado spocific
roferonco to his provious ropresontations in rogard to
tho situation as portaining to tho Yangtzo Rivor, bringing
attontion to tho fact that tho Japanoso military control
over that river had been used for tho bonofit of Japanoso
commorcial cntorprise and for tho oxclusion of the British
and othor forcign commerce. It was naintained that this
discrimination was still being carried on and it was fur-
ther stated that there also was evidence that German and
Italian shipping was now being favored in the Yangtze trade
to the detriment of British shipping.*
3.
Other Representatinns made by the British Embassy
During the month under review representations were
made by the British Embassy requesting assurances that no
discrimination would be made against British interests in
connection with the purchase of tobacco in China. This
matter was taken up with the Foreign Office in view of the
fact that the British Embassy had received information
that the Japanese interests were to be given exclusive
privileges in connection with the buying of tobacco in
Anhwei and Honan provinces.
The
Embassy's despatch No. 402i, July 6, 1939.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
The British Embassy also made further representations
in July in regard to Japanese interference with British
interests in Chinese railways. Specific reference was
made in this connection tc the Shanghai-Nanking and the
Shanghai-Hangchow-Ningpo Raiiways, which lines, it is
understood, the so-callod Central China Railway Company
intend to take over without making provision for the pay-
ment of British indebtednoss in these lines.*
(b) China.
Military Operations
Japanese military operations during the month under
793.94
review mainly were concorned with continued campaigns
against guerilla forces in alrcady occupied territories
and with a rather large-scale drive on regular Crinese
troops in Shansi. In south-castern Shansi it was re-
ported that at least five divisions of Japanese troops
had initiated a campaign against an estimated 190,000
Chinese troops.
. The Jananeso claimed to have forced the
Chinese to retreat towards the crossing over the Yellow
River by July 21 and also to have inflicted 10,Oo0 casual-
ties. Fighting in other sections of the same province
was also reported.
One new campaign against territory not already
occupied was also reported. This was an attack launched
on July 18 northward along the Peiping-Hankow Railway in
Honan near Sinying against some 30,000 Chinese troops.
It was stated that this campaign was initiated following
reconstruction of a bridge over the Hwai River at
Changtaikwan
*
Embassy's despatch No: 4071, August 3, 1939.
Embassy's despatch No. 4028, July 12, 1939.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
- 17 -
Changtaikwan.
The blockading of the China coast, particularly in
South China, was reportedly further intensified during the
month. It was announced on July 12 that the ports of
Chuanchow, Tungshan, and Chaoan, in Southern Fukien would
be closed to traffic on July 16, that thc port of Swabue
in Kwangtung would be closcd on the l8th, and that offen-
sive operations would bo initiated against Hinghwa, South of
Foochow, on the 19th. On July 21 it was announced that
Santuao, Louan, and Shachong, ports in Fukien, would also
be closed. In tho meantime it was reported that by July 15
the blockade at Wenchow and Foochow had been firmly cstab-
lished.
Comparativoly heavy bombing oporations woro said to
havo been carricd out during the month, particularly by
the naval air forces; tho soverust attacks wero reported-
ly mado on coastal points and on communication centers
and citics in Kwangsi, such as Kweilin, Liuchow, Lungchow,
and Nanning.
. Sevoral raids, notably those on July 6 and
7, were also madc on Chungking.
General Rolations
Much attention was siven in the Japanese press to
the latest statements made by Wang Ching Wei as printed
in the first issue of the revived Shanghai vernacular
newspaper, the Chung Hua Jih Pao. The renewed appeal
made in that statement to the Chinese people to make
peace with Japan was hailed as a significant development
in the relations between the occupied areas of China and
Japan. The press generally linked the statement with the
new efforts being mado, presumably by tho Joint Commission
of

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
- 18 -
of the puppet rogimcs at Peking and Nanking, that was
convened at Tsingtao on July 10, to provide a central
govornment for the part of China under Japanese military
occupation.
In these roports Wang was spokon of as "the
man of the hour", as the londor who prosumably could bo
turned to to head tho new government in China.
Much attention was given in Japan to tho docline in
tho foroign oxchango value of tho Chineso national cur-
roncy in Contral and South China. In this connoction,
spoculation was mado as to what tho position of tho Hua
Hsin notes of the China Developmont Commorcial Bank should
be with tho Chinoso National curroncy. It was roported
that all connection of tho former with tho lattor had beon
discontinued and that tho Hua Hsin notes would bo pegged
at the rute of six pence. It was also intimatod that theso
notes which to the prosont had been usod prinarily as
foroign trado curroncy would bc oxtondod to act as intor-
nal tonoy in the occupied areas of China other than North
China. However, in the latter connection, a report also
appeared that the Finance Ministry authorities in Tokyo
had no intention to extend the circulation of the Hua Hsin
notes, at least for the time being, to act as internal
currency but would await further developments as to what
further use it should be put to.
(c) Russia
1.
"Manchukuo"-Outer Longolian Border Clashes
It was reported that, on July 2, the joint Japanese-
"Manchukuo" forces launched a major scalo drivo on the
Outer

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
- 19 -
Outer Mongolian and Russian troops on the east banks of
the Halha River, these trcons having in June, reportedly,
again crossed the Halra Rivec and penetrated into torri-
tory that tho Japanese clsimed belonged to "Manchukuo".
According to the Jajenese roports fiuree fighsing onsued
for the next ten days wish te use on both sides of large
numbers of troons, assisted by heavy artillery, tanks and
airplanes. The Japanese claimeu to have captured places
known as the Balshagal and Noro Heights in the first few
days of this campaign and then to have driven the Soviet-
Outer Hongolian forces back to the banks of the River cor-
nering one large body of troops at the confluence of the
Halha and Holsten Rivers. By July ll this last salient
of the Mongolian-Sovict "invaders" was also claimed to
have been cleared from the western frontior of "Manchukuo".
The Japano se claine& to have scored remarkable victories
over the Russian air forec during tho month. Dospite
further claims thnt tre Japanoso-"Manchu uo" forces had
succeeded in driving the invading forces from "Manchukuo"
torritory further reports of clashes in the disputed area
and numerous air eneountors continued to appear in the
pross during the rest of the month.
2.
Japonese Coneocsione in Horth Saghulion
It was reported in Ja un that tho Japanose Ambassador
to Moscov, Mir. Shigenori Togo, had under instructions from
his Gov rnmont, on July 3 an: again on July 15 mado vigorous
protests to tho Sovict Government against Soviet prossure
on Japanose potroleum and coal concossions in North Saghalicn.
It was said that Sovict authoritius had so interfered with
the oporations of tho Japanose potroloum and coal mining
ontorprisos

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
-20 -
enterprises there that operations by Japanese interests
had been virtually paralyzed. The Japanese claimed that
the Soviet authorities refused to supply Russian labor,
to permit Japanese companies to import sufficient Japanese
labor, to allow necessary equipment and machinery to be
brought in from Janan, and to have demanded unduly high
increases in pay for the Russian laborers, as well as to
have made excessive demands in regard to labor contracts
and conditions for the laborers. It is understood that
the Japanese have been unable to produce any coal or
petroleum thus far this season and also to have been
unable to purchase supplies of oil which were formerly
obtaincd from Russian operated wells but which are now
being diverted to Siberia. A protest was also lodged with
the Sovict Govornmont in rogard to a large fino imposed
by tho Sovict authoritics on a Japancsc coal mining com-
pany.
(a) Gormany
It was announced on July 29 that a trado agreoment
botwoon Japan and Gormany had the day bofore boon pro-
visionally signod at Borlin. According to a statomont
relcased by the Foreign Offic on tho mattor, thc torms
of the troaty would not bo disclosed ponding ratification
but that its objoct was not only to strongthon tho anti-
Comintorn rolations betwocn tho two countrics but also
to relicvo Japan's unfavorable balanco of trado with
Gormany, whilc at the samo timo assuring the supply of
goods from that country essontial to Japn. It was
furthor statod that it was oxpocted that provisions of
tho

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
- 21 -
the treaty should appreciably augment trade between the
two countries and intimated that the means to better the
balance of trade would be that the new agreement would
open the way for increased German importation of Japanese
marine and agricultural prodicts. It was also added that
the agreement would be of important significance in that
it had been drawn up to fit in vit the programs of "planned
economy" of both nations.
It was announced during the month that the Japanese
Government was sending  military and naval delegations to
the Nurenburg Nazi convention to be held on September 2.
The military delegation was to be headed by General Juichi
Torauchi and the naval by Admiral Mineo Osumi. At the same
time it was reported that two reprosentatives of Japanese
banking and businoss circles also woro going to the con-
vontion. It was reported that besides attending the con-
vention at Nurenburg those dolegates would havo important
discussions with thc German officials on military, naval,
trade, and economic mattors.
(c) Latin Amorica
It was roported that on July 2 an understanding had
been roached at Caracas botwoen Japan and Venozuola over
tho trado negotiations which had boen in progress for
some tine. According to this undorstanding, Vonozuela
would agrce not to rostrict tho importation of Japanoso
goods. On the other hand, Japan assonted to incroaso
the purchase of Venozuclan goods as much as possible in
ordor bettor to balanco the trado botwcon tho two coun-
trios which had boon predominantly in favor of Japan.
Nogotiations

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
Negotiations reportedly have recently been entered
into between Argentina and Japan for a new trade agree-
ment. According to reports received in Japan tentative
proposals by Argentina were made during the month to the
Japanese representatives that Japan should restrict its
exports of cotton textiles to 26 million square yards or
40 percent of that exported during l938, and moreover
that Japan's exports to Argentina should not be pormitted
to exceed the total amount of Japan's imports of Argentina
goods. No definite agreement, however, had been reached
by t ho end of the month.
(f)
) al (Siam)
A goodwill press mission of Thai journalists made a
visit to Japan during tho month of July. Much public
attontion was given to this visit as a domonstration of
tho friendly relations existing between Japan and Thailand
The stress in this connection was laid on both the poli-
tical and cconomic rclations botwocn tlic two countrics
which reportodly havo becn vory satisfactory during the
past few years.
(g)
Iraq
It was announced on July 6 that it had beon decided
by tho Japanose Government to cstablish a Japanoso Loga-
tion at Iraq.
(h)
Bulgaria
It was also announced on July 6 that thc Japanso
Governmont would ostablish a Logation in Bulgaria.
III
INTERNAL

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
- 23 -
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a)
Cabinet
An Imperial Ordinance was promulgated on July 4
which provided for the establishment of a new quasi-
official organ to be known as the Asia Promotion Com-
mission. This Commissi on is to be an advisory body to
the Cabinet's Asia Fromotion Board. It is to be composed
of some 50 members under the supervision of the Prime
Minister. Higher Government officials such as officials
of the Asia Promotion Board, Vice Ifinisters from the dif-
ferent Government departments, Cabinet Councillors, and
a number of the more important figures in Japanese pro-
fessional and industrial life are to be appointed to the
Commission. Presumably the Cornission was established
to study and advise upon matters of general policy concern-
ing Japan's relations with China.*
(b) Diet
Election of the Houso of Peers
The first of the three elections to be held this
year for the seven-year torm in the liouse of Pecrs took
place on July 10 whon counts, viscounts, and barons were
voted upon. l27 mombers of the last Houso in those cate-
gories were returnod in this olcct.on and only 23 new
membors olocted. It is purhaps significant that many of
those Peers are th so who are considered to hold liboral
opinions in Japanese politics.
In September cloctions anong the higher tax puyers
and anong mombers ef the Imporial Acadomy to the House of
Peors will be hold.
(c)
Havy
*
Embassy's dcspatch No. 4035, July 12, 1939.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.98)
- 24 -
(c) Navy
Tho Navy Ministor in a statomont mado public on
July 24 announcod that a now Japanoso floot had boon
croatcd. Nothing was said as to tho sizo, composition,
or tho dutics of this floot. Inquirics of tho spokosnan
of tho Navy Ministry somo days after this announcemont
brought forth ruplics that tho now flcot was comploto in
ovory dotail, that it would oporato in homo wators, and
that it was to ongago in training on a war footing in co-
oporation with the Combinod Flcot and was "also intondod
to socuro command of tho scas in tho Westorn Pacific which
is neccssary for the contruction of a new ordcr in East
Asia".
The Japanoso pross gonorally claimod that tho pur-
poso of tho organization of this spocial flcot was to
sorvo as a warning to Soviet Russia, asserting that it
had been undortakon to meet Sovict intorforonco with
Japanoso fishing, oil, and coal interosts in North Sag-
halion and to have it on hand - as tho Navy Minister put
it in rogard to the gonoral policy of tho Japanuso Navy -
"to act with detormination in safoguarding tho logitimato
intorosts of Japan".
(a)
Forcign Offic
Two Impurial Ordinancos wero promulgated on July 11,
ono cstablishing a roscarch dopartmont in tho Foruign
Office and the other providing for tho appointment of
pross attachós to Japanuso Embassios and Consulatc
abroad.
The dutios of tho roscarch dopartmont were to
be those of doliberation upon and formulation of foroign
policy

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
- 25 -
policy and also training of Foreign Office officials.
The principal duties of the press attachés were to bo
those of carrying on press information work and thc is.
sumination abroad of informition in regard to Japan an?
Japan's policies and interests.*
(e)
Governnent Proclamations
Invocation of Labor Conscription Ordinance
There was promulgated during the month under review
to become effective on July 15 in Japan Proper and from
October 1st in the othor parts of the Japanese Empire an
Imperial Ordinance providing for conscription of certain
types of labor for national mobilization purposes. This
Ordinance is based on Article 4 of the National General
Mobilization Act which cmpowers the Government to draft
Imperial subjects for service in general mobilizat on
enterprises and is related to the Ordinance promulgated
in January of this year for the compulsory registration
of the vocational abilities of skilled workors in a wide
category of industries.**
It was announced in the press that the Governiont
estimated that approximately 1,100,000 men and women
would be affected by these Ordinances, to be called upon
to mako up the shortage of labor in important industries
in Japan, "ianchukuo", and China, particularly in the
technical and skillcd labor lines. The wago scales for
the laborers conseripted were announced as Yon 65-70
for graduates of universitios, Yen 50-60 for graduates
of
Embassy's despatch No: 4040, July 19; 1939.
**
Embassy's dospatch No. 3640, July 30, 1939.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
- 26 -
of higher schools and Yen 35-40 for graduates of middle
schools. The wages would be increased by Yen 5 for every
year of service; for persons who serve in China an extra
allowance of 80 percent of the salary will be paid. anl
for persons who serve in "Manchukuo" an extra allovrance
of 70 percent.*
(f) Important Statements of Government Officials
On July 7, the second anniversary of the Lukuachiao
incident, the Prime Minister gave a long interview to the
press. The interview dealt principally with Japan's
relations in regard to the Anti-Comintern Pact, Great
Britain, the United States, Soviet Union, and China. On
these points the Foreign Minister reportedly made remarks
to the following effect: thero had been no change in
Japan's previously ostablished policy in respect of the
question of strengtiening the Anti-Comintern Pact; the
conversations to bo held with the British in Tokyo would
be for the most part to decido local issues but that
Great Britain's goneral attitude would play a large part
in the outcome of the talks; there had been reports to
the offoct that American feeling for Japan had improved
but no positive manifcstation of such chango had como
from the Unitod Statos and spoculation and assumption
could not bo rolicd upon; Japan would continuc to main-
tain a strong policy vis-à-vis tho Sovict Union but did
not expoct tho recent difficulti s with that country to
assumo
*
Embassy's dospatch No. 4056, August 1, 1939.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
- 27 -
assume serious proportions; a new central regime in
China might be anticipated shortly in which event Japs
and "Manchukuo" would accord immediate recognition; what
form the new government for China would take was not clear
but the central regime would in all probability follow a
policy of de-centralized administration; troops would be
garrisoned in Inner Mongolia and North China wherever
necessary and in South and Central China - in the latter
two areas principally for the purpose of combating com-
munism; and the basic principles laid down in the Konoe
statement for disposing of the China Incident remained
unchanged.
The press looked upon the statements made by the
Prime Minister in this interview as of special significance.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
The Ministry of Financc issucd on July 10 China
Incident bonds in the amount of Yen 400,000,c00, Yen
100,000,000 being accepted by the Deposit Bureau and
Yen 300,000,000 by the Bank of Japan. It was reported
during the month that bond sales to tho public had im-
proved and that Government bond issues were being success-
fully disposed of through banks, financial and cormercial
companics, and the public at large.
Various articles appeared in the pross during the
month reportins that thore was under study by the inictry
of

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
- 28 -
of Finance in connection with tho appropriation of t
194o-41 Budgot, drastio changos to bo made to rovis ho
taxation systom in Japan. I was undorstood thst ir hau
beon tontativoly docided to adopt tho classifica income
tax systom similar to that oxisting in Britain and France
undor which classifiod incomo tax and gonoral income t:
would be imposcd. Tho classified income tax would be of
four kinds, namoly, tax on incomo from inmovable proportios,
tax on incomo from capital assets, tax on incomo from
businoss onterprisos, anu tax on carned income. Tho tax
on carncd incomo would bo on a graduated scalo in accord-
anco with tho amount carnod. Tho gonoral incomo tax
would be imposed on the combined anount of tho different
classos of incomes aftor they hed roached a cortain lovel.
Excmptions from the payment of income tax wero to bo
lowored from Yon 1,000 a year or loss to Yon 600 a yoar
or loss. Provision roportodly would bo mado for special
doductions for fanilics and depondents in proportion to
thoir nuber.
It was stimated that this contemplated rovision in
tho taxation systum would inerease the tax rov nuss of
the Government by sore Yon 500, 000,000 annually whil. the
incomo tux wtich is nov paid by about lo poreent of the
people will bo shared by a considerably largir muiber.
VJ.
CENERAL

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.92)
- 29 -
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AIND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
(Proparod vith the assistanco of the offico cf
tho Commorciel Attaché).
Businose activity in Japan during tho morth ot July
was along the gonoral level of the past few morthe. w-
894.50
ever, there were some oncouraging dovelormonte, parti
cularly in rcgard to the rise in the prico of rav silk
continued
and to tho/increaso in Japan's r ort. trado. In rucard
to tho formor, silk pricos rose from an avorage of Yon
1,190 per balc or July 1st to ovoi Yon 1,300 by tho ond
of tho month. Tho indox for wholosalo prices according to
tho Bank of Japan's conposito avorago indox of wholosalo
commodity prices showed an increase of .3% over Juno and
of 66.3% with the corrosponding month of last yoor. Among
tho principal articles which showed price' inereaces were
food products and toxtile materials.
It was predicted by roports takon from the Gevorr-
ment ostimates that there would be a bumper wheat crep for
this yoar. It was understood that the cron would be over
14% greater them for the average ennual harvest fer the
preceding five years. On the other hand, what appapontly
occasioned the rise in the price of rice was that, die to
the under averae rain fall up to the end of the month,
the rice crop for thm yo would not come up to the
average of provior yeure. Havever, it was still tro
warly in the weaton to ascortein how rmch the lach ot
sufficient rain bad draged this cror.
The soock sarket witnessed a docidealy u A are
1OV.C…t.

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
- 30 -
movement both in prices and volume of trading. The
trend of the preliminary Anglo-Japanese negotiations
was interpreted as a forerunner of less British onnosi-
tion in China, the result being a sharp price rise vhich
spread to all classes of shares, especially miscellaneous
issues. The money market remained calm although there
was a moderate fimnness in rates at the beginning of the
month. Foreign exchange rates ren ined steady.
It was reported that under the provisions of the
Japanese rice distribution control law passed in the last
session of the Diet (See Monthly Political Report for
March) a national policy concern to be known as tho Japan
Rice Company capitalized at Yen 30 million had been estab-
lished in July. It was understood that this concern would
control the distribution of rico in Japan, being respon-
sible for the ostablishment of rico markots and for the
solling and buying of rice as a represontative of tho Govern.
mont. Operations by the company reportodly would bogin
from November lst of this year.
Reports also appoared in the press during the month
in rogard to a number of large mergers of industrial
firms which have boen taking place since tho first of
the year. Thoso mergers affected perticularly the heavy
industry fiold. Thc principal factors behind such mergors
were given as tho ability of largor concerns to obtain
noccssary raw matorials, the supply of which had been
rostricted to tho modium and smallor industrial companies,
and tho ability of larger concorns to reduco costs per
unit

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5] -
unit output in production on large scale - which r duvio.
has been strongly pressed by the Government.
Reports also published during the month indicatd
that the Gcvernnent was soriously considerine ul inreea-
tion of Article 19 of the National General Mobiliation
Law to the end of fixing rents throughout the country.
It was understood that it was planned to set rents at
the levels prevailing on August 4, 1938.
Foreign Trade
The trend of improvement this year over 1938 in
Japan's exports continued in July with exports increasing
over the month before by approximately Yen 15 illion in
value. Imports, however, during the month under review
docreased by some Yon 20 million. The foreign trado ro-
turns for July vere exports Yen 345,053,000 and imports
Yen 264,791,000. Exports to tho yen bloc including
Hongkong were Yer 162,273,000 and the imports Yen
60,769,000, representing mall r trade in value to the
yen bloc, ineluding Hongkong in both categorics. The
increase in Jupan's cxports for the month was accountable
principally by inercased exports of cotton toxtiles,
raw sil:, lumber, woolcn toxtiles, and miscollaneous coode.
It wes announced that th. exports of cotton goods jumped
by lo poreent in comparison with the sane nonth in losa.
It is noted in pogard to the export of this cormodity
that it was reported in the beginning of the month that
large oxcuss stocks of cotton coods had accunulated in
Japan which pormitted heavy shipments to be made during
July. The inerease in valuo in the oxports of silk wa:
in

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.92)
- 32 -
in largo part attributablo to tho riso in prico of that
commodity.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to roport.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to roport.
000
000
ooo

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TC THE DEPARTMENT
July 1959
NO.
Date
Subject
4000
July 6
The present state of mind cf Japan
4009
July 1
Diplomatic visa report
4010
July 5
American property losses in China:
Fukien Christian University, Foochow
4011€
July 5
Watchclock dial paper forms
4012
July 5
Japanese blockade of Chinese coast: seizure
of British steamship LALITA
4013
July 5
Anti-British disturbances in Shanghai:
death of British subject, R.M.Tinkler
4014
July 6
Suppression of JAPAN ADVERTISER of July 4,1!:
4015
July 6
Creation of National Policy Aviation Co.
4016
July 6
Delivery of dahlia roots for Department of
Agriculture to Mr. B.R.Skvortzov, Harbin
4017
July 6
Cipher system
4018
July 6
Transmitta? of ccpis of Japanese national
anthem
4019
July C
Amorican property losses: Union High School.
Foochow, Fukien
4020
July 6
American property losses: Presbyterian
Mission, North, Changteh, Hunan
4021
July 6
Discrimination in Japanese interference with
foreign shipping on the Yangtze: British repr
4022
July 8
Diplomatic visa report
4023
July 8
Synthetic petroleum processes in Japan
4024
July 11
Electric light bulhs
4025
July 12
Decoration by Japanese Government of Captai
R.K.Turner USN & Commdr. P.S.Theiss USN
4026
July 12
Quarterly report of personnel residing in
Government-owned buildings
4027
July 12
Japanese interference with British interests
at Shanghai
4028
July 12
British representations regarding Japanese
violation of British interests in Shanghai:
Nanking and Shanghai-Hangchow-Ningpo railways
4029
July 14
Interview given to the Press by the Japanese
Prime Minister: Japan's foreign relations
4030
July 10
Bombings at Chungking

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
4031
July 12
Report on codes
4032
July 13
American property losses: Luthcran United
Mission, Kiosnan, Honen
4033
July 13
American property losses: American Dominican
Mission, Kienow, Fukien
4034
July 13
American proporty losses: American Catholic
Mission, Likiatu, Kiangsi
4035
July 12
Creation of Asie Promction Commission
4036
July 14
Occupation by Japanese of Pulmetto Presbyter
Mission, Soochow, Kiangsu
4037
July 15
Diplomatic visa report
4038
American property losses:
American M. E.Micsion, Chrngl.i
July 13
4039
July 18
American property losses: Seventh Day
Adventisr Miss: on, Changten
4040
July 19
Administrative changes in Japanese Foreicr
Office and Forcign Service
4041
July 19
Oath of Office, Bond, Affidavit: Messrs.
Williams, Sith, Lamm
4042
July 19
7th General Assombly of International Luio
of Geodesy and Cecphysica
4043
July 18
Rpport of conditions in Japan during une
4044
July 19
Information requested by Civil Aeronautic.
Authority
4045
July 20
Desire of Mr. Donald Lamm for Japanese
language assignment
4046
July 22
Diplomatic visa report
4047
July 24
Japanese bombing of American property in 
1048
July 24
Arrest of Marcelo Tan at Amcy
L.
4049
July 24
Changes in Japanese foreign exchange congro?
4050
July 25
American property losses: 7th Day Aiventist
Mission, Chuanchow
4051
July 25
15th Intl. Congress of Architects
4052
July 29
Diplomatic visa report
4053
July 31
War Office pamphlet
4054
July 31
Japanese war novels

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAMS SENI C THE PEPARTMENT
DURING JULY 1930
No.
Date
Subject
309
July 3, 7 p.m.
Proposed note re protection of America
interests in China
310
July 4, 11 a.m.
War office sponesman's statement te
Anglo-Japanese Tientcin discuasicns
311
July 5, 2 p.m.
Hankov cuctens
312
July 5, 5 p.m.
Forthconing Anglo-Japanese converc-
tions re Tientsin
313
July 6, 4 p.m.
Detention of L.W.Holland ty Japanes
314
July 6, 5 p.m.
Polish-German relations.
315
July 7, 2 p-m.
Prime Minister:s press statement re
American-Japanese relations
316
July 8, noon
Visa granted to P.A.Chieri
317
July 9, noon
Chungking bombings
318
July 10, 11 a.m.
Extension of lecve, Mr. Crocker.
319
July 10, noor
Secretary's reply to Prime
Minister'a message
320
July 10. i p.m.
Chungking bombings
321
July 10, 5 ).n.
Internaticnal Settlement, Kulangsu
322
July 10, 6 n.m.
Leav, & resignation, Miss Russell.
323
July 10, 7 p.m.
Clerk to repluce Miss Russell
324
July 11, 5 p.m.
Anti-sritish ectivities and
Tientsin situation.
325
July 12, noon
Arrest of Narcelo Tan at Kulangsu
323
July 12, 1 p.m.
Stocks & Haskell.
Assault on
y Japanese
327
July 13, 11 a.m.
Runors of new central government
in China
Re erve
323
July 13, 2 p.m.
Federeted/Currency in North China
and Anerican banks
329
July 13, 5 p.m.
International Settlement, Kulangsu

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Suhject
330
July 14, 4 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Holland by Japanes?
331
July 14, 6 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese negotiatione re Tientsi
332
July 15, 7 p.m.
ditto
333
July 15, 8 p.m.
ditto
334
July 15, 11 p.m.
Arrest of Marcelo Tan at Kulangsu
335
July 17, noon
Clerk Ruess's transfer to Chungking
336
July 17, 4 p.m.
Return from leave of Mr. Schaid
337
July 17, 6 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese negotiations re Tients.
338
July 18, 6 p.m.
Salary payments to Commerce officers
339
July 18, 7 p.m.
Kulangsu situation.
340
July 18, 8 p.m.
Chungking bombings
Tientsin
341
July 18, 9 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations re /
342
July 19, midnight ditto
343
July 20, 3 p.m.
Delegation of disbursement function
during Mr. Farish's leave.
345
July 20, 6 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese conversations:Tientsin
346
July 21, 1 p.m.
Whereabouts and welfare of L.W.Hollan
347
July 21, 5 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations:Tientsi
348
July 21, 6 p.m.
ditto
349
July 22, 11 a.m.
ditto
350
July 22, 4 p.m.
Visit of Lumsdaine to Swatow re
Robinson property
351
July 22, 6 p.m.
Assault by Japanese soldiers on
Messrs. Worth and VanEvera
352
July 22, 8 p.m.
Holland,L.W.: Whereabouts & welfare
353
July 23, 10 a.m.
Anglo-Japanese conversations re
Tientsin:
re draft statement
354
July 23, noon
America's concern over Tientsin
situation

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
No.
Date
Subject.
355
July 23, 1 p.m.
Courier service, Tokyo-Peiping.
356
July 24, 3 p.m.
Mr. Ruess's transfer tc Chungking:
travel arrangements
357
July 24, 4 p.m.
Reported transfer of Counsolor Sura
from Washington to Hsinking
358
July 24, 5 p.m.
Davies trip to Nenchang re IIolland
case and safety of Americans
359
July 24, 6 p.m.
American President Lines: exchang:
difficulties
360
July 24, 7 p.m.
Bombings of American prcperty
361
July 25, 4 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations:Tients:
362
July 26, 1l a.m. Alleged radio interference in Far Ea.
363
July 26, 1 p.m.
Designation of foreign service office.
as disbursing officer during leave of
Mr. Farish
364
July 26, 8 p.m.
Manchuria-Outer Mongolia border
hostilities
365
July 27, 3 p.m.
U.S. termination of 19ll Treaty of
Commerce and Navigation
366
July 28, 11 a.m.
ditto
367
July 28, noon
For Orvia Brothers: blocked funds
368
July 28, 1 p.m.
Press reaction to U.S.Termination of
commorcial treaty
369
July 28, 2 p.m.
Tientsin: Anglo-Japanese negotiatico
370
July 28, 3 p.m.
Representations re anti-foreign
activities in China
371
July 29, 10 a.m.
Ruess's transfer to Chungking:
travel dat:s
372
July 29, 3 p.m.
Tientsin: Anglo-Japanese conversation:
373
July 29, 5 p.m.
Reaction to U.S.termination of
commercial treaty
374
July 30, 11 a.m.
Japan-Germany trade agreement
375
July 31, 5 p.m.
Mr. McGurk's transfer: departure dat.
376
July 31, 11 p.m.
Comments on reply to Prime Minister's
message to the Secretary

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.94)
October 14 1989
.1819
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
POkVO.
894.00 P.R./1
Sir:
The Department has reoeived and read with interest
the mbassy's despatch no. 4108 of August 22, 1939, en-
closing a review of conditions in Japan during the month
of July 1939, which was prepared by Third Secretary
James Espy.
40
The information contained in the review 1s pre-
sented in a olear and logical manner and is espeoially
helpful to the Department for purposes of reference.
It is evident that the drafting officer gave careful
thought to and expended considerable effort in the
123 €.
preparation of the review, and it is desired that you
express to Mr. Espy the Department's appreciation of
the quality thereof.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
OCT
13103
G. S.Messersmith
Ar
.20
gou

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.89)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
0T231939
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DEPANTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, September 14, 1939
No. 4134
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF AUGUST 1939.
PM 4 05
COpy mFE
AUN CAIONS
ES
REIVE
MID
ONI
Divinion of
16
FAR LASIGHAIRS
AY
171939
894.00 P.R.
9
Dopartimenl State
The Secretary or State
 AFAIRS
Sir:
GLOCT 21 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
nixt
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for
the month of August 1939.
Respectfully yours,
ugtme  Noomas
Eugene H. Dooman
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
ASSIST ANT SECRETARY
9o
hjs
OF STATE
Bnolosure:
Report No. 155
Iquintuplicate to the Department.
Chpy to Embassy, Poiping;
Chungking;
n
Moscow;
n
Consulate General, Shanghai
1n
Mukden
n
n
n
Harbin
19
19
Seoul
F/WB
n
Dairen
n
Osaka
n
Kobe
n
Nagasaki
n
Nagoya
11
"
1n
Taihoku
n
Yokohema
n
Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Flest.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 155
REPORT OF CONTITIONS IN JPIN DURINC
THE MONTH CF ∴UGUST 1939.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 1.00)
INDEXANDSUMMRY
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES:
(a)
Assaults on American Citizens and Anti-
Foreign Campaign in China
1,2
(b)
Broader Aspects of the Anglo-Japanese
Conversations Concerning the Situation
at Tientsin . .
2,3
(c)
International Settlement at Kulangsu,Amoy 3,4
(a)
American President Lines
4,5
(e)
Other Representations
5,6
(f)
General Relations
6,7,8
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES:
(a) Great Britain
1. Anglo-Japanese Cnnference Concerning
the Situation at Tientsin .
. 8,9,10,11
2.
Anti-British Campaigns in China
11,12
3. British Representations
12
(b) China
1. Military Operations
12,13
2. General Relations
13,14
(c) Germany
14,15
(d) Soviet Russia
1. Manchukuo"-Outer Mongolian Border Clashes
15
2.
Japanese Concessions in North Saghalien
16
3.
General Relations
16,17
(e) India
1. Coming Indo-Japanese Trade Negotiations
17
(f) General International Relations
Strengthening of the Anti-Comintern Fact . . 1

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
III. INTERNAL AFFAIRS
(a) Cabinet
1. Resignation of Hiranuma Cabinet
19,0
2. Inauguration of he Abe Cabinet
20,21.
22
(b) Privy Council
22
(c) Navy
22
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION
22
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
23
VII. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS 23, 24,25,26
Shipping
26
Foreign Trade
27
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMERCIAL INTERESTS
27
IX.
LABOR
27
X.
MISCELLANEOUS
27

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(e)
Assaults on Americen Citizens and Anti-
Foreign Campaign In China.
On August 1, 1939 Mr. Dooman called on tho Vice
Minister for Forcign Affairs and in conformity with the
Department's instructions* made oral representalions to
Mr. Sawada in regard to the continued instances of
assault on American citizens in China by the Japanese
military. The report from the Exbassy at Peiping of the
attack on Mr. A. E. S ithberger and Father Daniel J.
Soammell on July 22 was teken up as the latest incident
that had occurrcd in this regard. The wide publicity in
the United States given to the unwerranted actions on the
part of the Japanese military and their accumulative
adverse effect upon American public opinion towards
Japan were pointed out to the Vice Minister. The fact
was also stressud or the possibility of these assaults
being reflective of the anti-foreign propagande campaign
that was current in Clina.**
Again on August 7, Mr. Dooman called on the Director
of the American Bureau of the Foreion Ufrice and took up
with him the situation in Cnina in regard to the anti-
foreign campaign tliere. On this occasion he reviewed
the situation wherein the anti-foreign agitation sponsored
by Japanese agents, although primarily directed against a
third country, was nevertheless creating increasing dangers
to
*
Department's telegram No. 224, July 2E, 5 p.m.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 379, August 1, 6 p.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 4075, August 4.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
to American citizens and property. He emphasized the
fact that the u.erican Government could not ignore such
a condition and emphatically urged that the Japanese
Government realise the serious potentialities of the
agitation stirred up by its agents.
It was immediately reported in the press that these
representations had been made to the Foreign Office and
their general purport was given in the newspaper articles.
Later in the month a number of reports appeared in
the press of categorical denials that any movement in
China had developed against the United States or its
citizens. It was also claimed that the rumors of Chinese
attacks and agitation against Americans and their interests
in various localities there were entirelyrunfounded. It
was declared that these rumors were melicious propaganda
which had arisen from certain quarters for the purpose
of alienating Japanese-American relations. It was also
announced that on August 24 the Japanese Ambassador at
Washington had been instructed to make a strong protest
to the United States Government in regard to the mattar.
(b)
Broader Aspects of the Anglo-Japanese Con-
versations Concerning the Situation at Tientsin.
On August 3, the Chergé d'Affaires called on the
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs and took up with him
under the Department's authorization the question of the
American Government's position with regard to the broader
aspects of the Anglo-Japanese conversations concerning
the situation at Tientsin. Mr. Dooman referred to
previous conversations which he had with Mr. Sawada and
other officials of the Japanese Government since June,
in

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
●
- 3 -
in which he had indiceted the likelihood of the American
Government being con:crned if the negotiations were o
lead to the adoption cf moasures which would affect
American rights end interests in North China. He recall3c
the note he had taken of te specific question of a cur-
rency being set up in North China which would be for the
use there of the Japanese only. He then pointed out that
the silver and currency problems had now been raised in
the Anglo-Japanese conversations at Tokyo and stated that
the Japanese could not expect the United States to assent
to any action taken by Japan in making illegal the use of
the recognized legal currency of China.*
(c) International Settlement at Kulangsu, Amoy.
During the month under review further conversations
were held by Mr. Dooman with members of the Foreign Office
over the situation at Kulangsu, Amoy. Mr. Dooman pointed
out on several occasions that the American Government, in
its desire of finding a means of solving the problems at
Kulangsu, had already gone more than half way to meet
the Jepanese, but it could not submit to menacing demands
or to pressure of coercive measures, evidence of which
were still to be seen in the Japanese actions at Amoy.
Replies were received that the Japanese Government on its
part was: also extremely anxious to have a solution of the
situation brought about, that note had been taken of the
Embassy's
Department's telegram No. 238, August 2, ε p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 386, August 3, 6 p.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 4074, August 4, 1939.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Imbassy's complaints, particularly in regard to the
remarks of the Japanese Consul General at Amoy and
th:t these remarks were disapproved by the Japanese
Government. Mr. Dooman was moreover informed of
instructions issued by the Foreign Office to its
Consul General at Amoy setting forth a proposal for
settlement of the issue over the Municipal Council on
the basis of which it wss hoped the issue could be
solved between the Japanese Consul General and the other
foreign consuls. This proposal embraced the eppointment
of a Japanese inspector of police to rank after the
Chief of Police, the appointment of at least one addi-
tional Japanese constable and the termination of the
restrictive measures against the Settlement. No further
developments in this matter occurred during August.*
(a)
) American President Lines.
It will be recelled that the Embassy had repeatedly
taken up since the first of the year the question of
the Japenese Government's failure to provide exchange
for the remittance of yen earnings of the American
President Lines.**
On August 12, the Embassy was
informed
Embassy's telegrams No. 37ε, August 1, 5 p.m.
429, August 23, 8 p.m.
431, August 24, 4 p.m.
** Monthly Report for July.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
informed that the Ministry of Finance would automati as
supply the exchange permits to the Company thereafter.*.
(0) Other Representations.
The Embassy mado representations to the Foreign
Office during August in the following instances:
In regard to the shipment of American-owned wood
oil from Hankow that had been held up at that port since
the beginning of hostilities in China; **
In regard to the indebtedness by the Peiping-Suiyuan
Railrond, now under control of Japanese interests, to a
number of American concerns;***
In regard to the sarious situation which had developed
at Shenghai concerning supplies of rice, which situation
was in large pert duo to the cutting off of supplies to
Shanghai from the Japanese-controlled areas around that
city;****
In regard to the continued restrictions placed by
the Japanese authorities in China in the way of the
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company purchasing tobacco in
the Yangtze River area and in Shangtung Provinee;*****
the
In regard to/slapping of Mrs. Frances M. Richard
by a Japanese sentry at Tientsin on August 14.
******
During the month of August the Embassy mede represen-
tations to the Foreign Office concerning American
property
*
Embassy's telegram No. 418, August 19, 7 p.m.
**
Embassy's telegram No. 422, August 21, 5 p.m.
Despatch No. 4109, August 31, 1939.
***
Emb~ssy's telegram No. 426, August 23, 11 c.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 4101, ugust 24, 1939.
****
Shenghai's telegram No. 709, August 10, 5 p.m.
Department's telegrem No. 251, August 12, 2 p.m.
Embassy's telegr-m August 12, 1 p.m. to Shanghai.
Embassy's tolegrem No. 432, August 24, 5 p.m.
*****
Embassy's talegram No. 395, August 9, 6 p.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 4092, August 16, 1939.
******
Depertment's telegram No. 257, August 16, 7 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 412, August 18, 4 p.m.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
property losses in China in the following instances:*
Looting and damage of property of John W. Parsons,
Nanking.
Pombing of Lutheran United Mission Hospital,
Kioshan, Honan.
Bombing of Beptist Missicn Stout Memorial Hospital,
Wuchow, Kwangsi.
Bombing of Baptist China Direct Mission, Tawenkou,
Shantung.
Bombing of Standard Vacuum Oil Comp.:ny, Nanning,
Kwangsi.
Bombing of Baptist Mission, Shaohing, Chekiang.
Looting of property of Dr. R. F. Brady, Nanking.
Bombing of property of Mrs. Saddie K. McCartney.
Chungking.
Bombing of property of Catholic Mission, Kweilin,
Kwangsi.
Claims of American Locomotive S les Corporction
against the Peiping-Suiyunn Railway Compeny.
Bombing of property of Mr. F. Tillman Durdin,
Chungking.
Bombing of Talmadge College, American Reformed
Church Mission, Changchow, Fukien.
(f) General Relntions
On August 4, a broadcast was made by the Director
of the American Burcnu in regard to the United States'
notice of abrogation of the Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation. In this address Mr. Yoshizawa spoke on
possible motivating considerations in the action taken
11171
by the United States Government and intimated that they
were
Thoso represontations were reported in tho following des-
patches which "re listed in the same order as the above
represent tions: Nos. 4059, August 2; 4064, August 3;
4067, August 3; 4068, lugust 4; 4069, August 3; 4070,
August 3, 4073, August 4; 4089, August 15; 4092, fugust 10:
4095, August 18; 4101, ∴ugust 24; 4111, August 31.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
-7 -
were primarily political in charactar. He also suggested
that the American Government through its action had taken
issuc with the Japanese Government over "the construction
of a new order in East Asia", and as well mentioned
that American public opinion had unfortunately been con-
siderably aroused against Japan over the destruction by
bombing of American properties, and that this situation,
which he claimed was badly distorted and exaggerated, was
also responsible for the abrogation move.*
Much further discussion on the matter also appeared
in the press during the month under review. The general
attitude of awaiting definitive indications of America's
position towards Japan was still maintained. However, in
certain circles there were voiced statements to the effect
that American action was indicative of an unfriendly stand
against Japan. It was suggested that the notice of abro-
gation likely presaged the institution of economic embargoes
against this country. ttontion was then turned to the con-
sequences tn t wouli follo: fron possible action by tha Unit
States. to resort to embargoes. In this connection it was
intimated that Japan would find in such a move recognition
by the United States of a state of war in China, and, in
turn, would invoke belligerent rights. It was claimed
that if Japan did assume such rights American interests in
China would be seriously affected, whil, at the zame time,
the
*
Embassy's despatch No. 4080, August 9, 1939.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
- ε -
the United States alone would not be able to cut off the
raw materials which are necessary for Japan to carry on
the hostilities in China or its program of production
expansion at home.*
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a)
Great Britain
1.
Anglo-Japanese Conference Concerning the
Situation at Tientsin.
It will be recalled that on July 22 a statement w:s
issued announcing a general agreement on the first point
of the Anglo-Japenese negotiations. This formula accord-
ing to the Japanese interpretation was to serve as a com-
mon background and general basis for discussion of the
specific issues at the conference. The British Foreign
Office in London announced that on the part of Great
Britain the statement did not mean that there was any
change in British foreign policy as regards the Far East.
On August 4, the Embassy received an informal explanation
from the British Embassy at Tokyo of the British views
as to the significance of the statement. This explanation
was in the form of a declaration of what the statement
did not do, as follows:
It recognized no right only a situation; it did not
lay on the British Government obligations of a neutral
but only provided for impartiality; it did not promise
anything
Embassy's telegram No. 424, August 22, 3 p.m.

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
anything involving infraction of the British Government's
obligations to third parties; it did not preclude the
British Government from continuing to press for redress
of their greivances; it involved no admission of past
culpability on the part of the British Government; it
did not give carte blanche to the Japanese to decide
what degree of cooperation by the British was necessary
in measures desired to secure security and public order.
It is recalled that in the last week of July
negotiations had begun on specific questions and that the
Japanese put forward in regard to economic matters three
important suggestions regarding:the prohibiting of the
use of Chinese National currency in the Concession; the
removal of the silver stocks from the Concession; and the
control by local Chinese authorities of Chinese banking
institutions, and the circulation of Chineso currency in
the Concessiorn. As no agreoment could be reached on these
questions, on August 3 the discussions were suspended
pending receipt by the British Embassy of further instruc-
tions from its Government.
In the meantime, on August 12, the British Ambassador
made the proposal that the negotiations be reopened on
the question of policing of the Concession, in regard to
which all but the final details had already been worked
out, and that this matter be finally settled. This
proposal, however, the Japanese turned down, insisting,
as

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
as they had done from the start of the conference,thnt
no agreement could b: eccopted by them on any one.cucsion
without a settlement being reached on all the questiore.
economic as well as police.
On August 1l, it was announced by the British authori-
ties that the four alleged Chinese terrorists being held
in the Tientsin Concession would be turned over to the
Chinese local authorities. The Japanese voiced much
resentment over this action, which it held was done by
the British for ultorior motives. It was claimed that
although
the delivery of these Chinese was the initial
cause for the blockading of the Concession at Tientsin,
this action on the part of Great Britain was calculated
to weaken the tactical positinn of the Japanese with
regard to other questicns. Much impatience and hostility
was also publicly manifested over the delay in the nego-
tiations. Britain was accused of "stalling", of trying
to gain political capital out of the United States'
abrogation of the commerce truaty, and of attempting to
get tho United States and France to make up a united
front with her ageinst Japan.
On August 20 the British Foreign Orfice at London
issued an announcement in which it was steted that Great
Britain cculd not continue the nogotiations on the cur-
rency and silver questions "on a purely Anglo-Jpaneso
basis".
On the following day the Japenese Foreign Office
issued in return & public statement in reply to the British
announcement. The Japanese declared that Japan would not
enter

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
enter into any joint conference with all interested triri
Powers over the curroncy and silver questions, and intin
that it would not permit that the Nine Power Treaty be
brought into the matter.
The press looked upon these announcements as vir-
tually disrupting the negotiations, but in any case the
international events that occurred during the last days
of August completely overshadowed the issue and, for the
time being at least, relegated it to the background.*
2. Anti-British Camnaigns in China
On August 1 and on a number of occasions thereafter
during the month under review, the British Ambassador
made representations to the Foreign Office in regard to
the anti-British campaign that was current in China. In.
these representations there were brought befor, the
Japanese Government and underlined with the citations of
specific instances, the anti-British demonstrations,
speeches, and press announcements in China, the intimi-
dation of British subjects and their Chinese employees,
the inciting of the Chinese to boycott British goods and
to drive British subjects and interests out of China, and
even attacks on British property that were being carried
on
* Embassy's te egram No. 381, August 2, noon.
Embassy's telegram No. 382, August 2, 4 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 367, August 4, 6 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 397, August 10, 4 p.m.
Embassy's tclogram No. 40l, August 11, 8 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 402, August 12, noon.
Embassy's telogram No. 415, August 1ε, 7 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 417, August 19, 4 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 420, August 21, 3 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 421, August 21, 4 p.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 4102, August 25, 1939.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
on by Chinese and the local Chinese regime. It vas
pointed out that the Japanese euthorities in China 
not only condoned these acts but were even openly im-
plicated in them. The British Ambassador pointed out
the deplorable effects that they were having on the
relations between the two countries and repeatedly
requested that measures be taken by the Japanese authori-
ties for their suppression.
3. British Representations
On August ll the British Ambassedor made represen-
tations to the Japanese Government in regard to the
bombing that occurred on August 6 by Japanese airplanes
of the Asiatic Petroleum Company's installation and of
two river steamers of Jardine, Matheson & Company at
Ichang, Hunan.
(b)
China.
1.
Military Operations*
Japanese military operations in China during the
month under review were, eccording to the reports
received, practically at a standstill.
The only land
operations of any importance which were known to have
occurred at all were the continuation of the offensive
PPI:
in Shansi in attempting to drive Chinese troops out of
that provinc, and the northward push along the Peking-
Hankow Reilway. Little was disclosed as to the results
of cither of these cperations. Action against guerillas
in the occupied areas was also believed to be at a
minimum.
*
Prepared with the assistance of the office of the
Military Attaché.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
-13 -
minimum.
In regard to th: blockading of the China coast it
was announced that the port of Haimen in Chekiang Pro-
vince would be blockaded on the 8th of August.
Aerial activity during August was also reported to
have been slight although raids on Chungking wore under-
taken on several occasions as well as on several other
centers in Chine.
2.
General Reltions
Reports continued to appear in Japan concerning the
so-called peace movement of Wang Ching-wei and attertion
in this regard was particularly directed to Wang's speech
on August 9 at Canton. This adaress was viewed as a
favorable event towards the pacification of the Canton
and Kwangtung area. It was noteworthy that his appeal
for a local truce in South China was received in Japan with
approbation.
Considerable interest, particularly amongst finan-
cial circles in Jepan, was manifested in regard to the
rumored scheme of the Chinese National Government to set
up a new currency system which was either to take the
place of or help bolster up the depreciating Chinese
National currency. It was feared that the British were
behind this scheme and would help to establish the new
currency. It was emphatically declared that should Great
Britain appear to support any new currency system J pan
would take no part in it and would moreover look upon the
act as unfriendly to herself.
Japanese

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
Jepanese activities in China generally throughout the
month appeared to ha/e been very quiet. Little further
apparently occurred in regard to the establishment of a
new Chinese government, nor were there any new measures cr
developments disclosed as to what further steps it would
take or plans it might have to carry out its program in
China.
(c)
Germany
The news of the announcement on August 22 of the con-
clusion of the German-Soviet non-aggression pact came to
Japan as a stunning blow. It was a complete surprise, as
not even the Japanese Government reportedly had any know-
ledge beforehand. When the terms of the agreement were
published general feeling in both official and private
circles throughout Japan became one of resentment and
indignation. It was held that the treaty in effect
violated the anti-Comintern pact, Article 4 of which
provided that Germany and the Soviet Union would not par-
ticipate in any grouping of Powers which either directly
or indirectly aimed against the other contracting party.
This viow was based, according to the general opinion
put forward in the press, that the Soviet Government and
the Comintern were one and the same thing.
An announcement was made on August 26 by the Foreign
Office that the Japanese Ambassador at Berlin had been
instructed strongly to protest to the German Government
against the conclusion of the agreement. It was also
reported that Ambassedor Oshima was notifying the Reich
Government

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
Government of the Japanese Government's intentions to en
deliberations for th" strengthening between the two natio
of the anti-Comintern agreement.*
The general reaction of the press was one of holding
that Germany had showed bad faith towerds Japan and had
frankly violated the friendship thet hed been fostered
between the two countries. In disgust, the press editorials
called for a clearing away by Japan of any further entangle
ments with foreign countries and the establishment of an
autonomous and independent policy. It should be noted,
however, that there was in some sections the feeling that
despite what Germany had done, it remained that other
countries, notably Britain and France, were Japan's
greatest obstacles in the carrying out of its policy of
establishing a "new order" in China.
(a)
Soviet Russia
1. "Manchukuo"-Outer Mongolian Border Clashes
After over a month of comparative quiet on the
Nomonhan front of the "Manchukuo"-Outer Mongolian border,
it was reported that on August 24 heavy fighting was again
renewed. Little appeared in the J: panese press in regard
to the matter but reports from other sources indicated
thet by the end of the month Soviet-Outer Mongolian forces
had succeeded in making large advances across the Halha
River and were strongly attacking defending Japanese troops
some miles east of the river.
2. Japanese
*
Embassy's telegram No. 427, August 23, 4 p.m.
Embassy's telogran No. 428, August 23, 7 p.m.
Embassy's teleeram No. 430, August 24, 3 p.m.

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
2.
Japanese Concessions in North Sagnalien
The situation over ho Japanese coal und i con
cessi ns in Soviet orrh Saghalien continuca unaltered
during the montn uiur review.*
The Japaneso mining
and petroleum conapanios there were reportedly srijl
unable to carry out any operations due to the nterferenco
with the supply of labor and materials to the concessions
and other restrictions placed on their activities.**
3.
Generel Relations
Japanese attention in regard to the German-Soviet
non-aggression truaty centered apparently primarily on
the action taker by Germany in concluding the agreement.
What was said about Russia in this connection generally
followed alonz the lines of Japan's long-held feelings
towards the Soviets. However, according to the majority
of the press, the situation as it concerned Russia was
fraught with danger to Japan as there could be seen in
the treaty the dctaching of Russian attention from its
western frontier and the concentration by Russia of all
its forces, should it choose to do so, on the east.
Reports were published in Japan that Germany and
Italy were urging this country to conclude likowise a
non-aggression pact with Russia and that to this end the
Soviets also had even made overtures to
the Japanese
through the Japanesc Embassy at Moscow.
The spokesman
of
Monthly Report for July.
**
Embassy's dospatch No. 4120, August 31, 1939.

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
of the Foreign Office, however, denied any knowledge of
such developments, arl, at the same time, on August 26 L
statement was issued by the War Ministry in which it was
declared that Japan's "policy firmly maintaining the funda-
mental principle opposing the Comintern shall remain un-
altered regardless of any change in the international
si tuation".
The press generally condemned as out of the
question any idea of a rapprochement with far-reaching
implications between Japan and Russia in vjew of the
divergences between the two countries' ideologies, and
the Soviet's actions in attacking Japan and supporting
Chinese resistance against this country.*
(e)
India
1. Coming Indo-Japanese Trade Negotiations
It was announced at the end of the month that Japan
had prepared its plans for and selected Japanese delegates
to attend the third Indo-J panese conference to be held at
Simla in late September or October for the revision of the
trade treaty between the two countries. The Japanese dele-
gation was to be headed by the Japanese Consul General at
Calcutta and assisted by technical advisers. Japanese
interests in the conference reportedly would dosl largely
with the question of the market in India for Japanese
textiles and for a wide range of miscellaneous Japanese
goods, while at the same time aiming at securing for Japan
a continued supply of raw cotton end such other raw
materials as pig iron, jute, mica, at cotcra.
(f)
General
*
Embassy's telegram No. 435, August 25, noon.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
-18 -
(r) General International Relations.
Strengthening of the Anti-Comintern Poct.
It will be remembered that after a long series of
Cabinet conferences this past spring, it was anncunced
that on May 26 a decision hed been arrived at concerning
Japan's policy vis-à-vis the European situation. No
official informetion was given out as to what the policy
was to be but it was understood that it had been then
determined that Japan should not embroil itself directly
with European effairs. Shortly after the first of August
it became known that the wholo matter had been egain
reopened. On August 8 a five-Minister conference was con-
vened to deal with a demand for the strengthening of the
anti-Comintern pact into an alliance of Japan with Germany
and Italy. Certain of the more nationalistic elements in
Japan and the Army had put forward and were strongly pres-
sing a proposal to this end. Publicly, demonstrations of
various org nizations and posters displayed in the streets
of the cities backed up this demand. The press found as
the factors responsible for the reappearance of the sub-
ject the intractability of the British manifested in the
Tokyo conference, the challenging attitude of Soviet Russia,
the danger to Japan that was latent in any successful con-
clusion of the Anglo-Russian talks, and the apprehension
over the United States' exercising pressure against Japan
after the abrogation of the trade treaty.
It was renorted that very serious deliberations in
the Cabinet as well as amongst the other high Government
officials

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.98)
- 19 -
officials occurred in almost daily conferences over the
Army's proposel up till the day news was recei od of the
con:lrsion of the German-Soviet treaty. Reportedly e
faction of the Government had strongly opposed ury actic
going so far as the adoption of an alliance with the Axis
Powers; but whether or not decision had been arrived at
concerning any policy was not made known. The signing by
Germany of the pact with Russia brought this matter to an
abrupt end. On August 25, following a full Cabinet meeting,
the Chief Secretary of the Cabinet issued a statement that
"in view of the new situation created by the signing of
the German-Soviet non-aggression treaty, the Government
has decided to drop the question of the former Europearn
policy thus wiping Japan's diplomatic slate clean, and
that the Government in regard to future measures would
deliberate from a new point of view.
III. INTERNAL AFFAIRS
(a) Cabinet
1. Rosignation of Hiranumn Cabinet
On the morning of August 28, Premier Kiichiro Hiranuma,
together with his entire Cabinet, resigned. In a statement
issued immediately after his rosignation Baron Hirnnuma,
explaining the reasons for his cction, said that "due to
the signing of the non-aggression pact between Germany and
the Sovict Union a complicated, strange new situation had
developed in Europe which compelled the Government to
formulate a new policy, abandoning completely the policy
that had been preparud" and that since this meant an
alteration

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20 -
in the position of his Cabinet he could no longer retein
his office.
In the foregoing section of this report there has
been set forth the profound affect that the conclusion
of the non-aggression pact between Germany and Russia
had upon the mind and feelings of the Japanese. It was
felt that the treaty amounted to a titiation of the anti-
Comintern pact, on which Japan's special relations with
Germany and Italy had been based. Now, the situation was
completely changed. Therefore, the resignation of the
Hiranuma Cabinet was to manifest the end of Japan's
former position. It was also to assume joint responsi-
bility for the failure of the Japanese Government to fore-
see the German-Soviet treaty. Moreover, as stated by the
Premier, it was to prepare the way for a new unencumbered
position to be taken up by Japan, divested of any involve-
ments with European affairs and enabled to establish a
new "free and independent policy".*
2. Inauguration of the Abe Cabinet
Immediately upon the resignation of the Hiranuma
Cabinet it was reported that General Nobuyuki Abe, retired,
had been selected to form n new Cabinet. On August 30
Gencral Abe's Cabinet was invested. The new Cabinet was
made up ns follows:
Prime
*
Embassy's telegram No. 440, August 26, 2 p.m.
Embassy's telegram No. 445, August 2E, 10 p.m.
Embassy's despatch No. 4126, September 12, 1939.

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
- 21 -
Prime Minister: General Nobuyuki Abe, concurrently
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Minister of War: General Shuroku Hata.
Minister of Marine: Vice Admiral Zengo Yoshida.
Minister of Home Affeirs: Mr. Naoshi Obora, con-
currently Minister of Social Welfare.
Minister of Finence: Mr. Kazuo Aoki, concurrently
President of the Cabinet Planning Board.
Minister of Commerce and Industry: Mr. Tukao Godo:
concurrently Minister of Agriculture.
Minister of Communications: Mr. Ryutaro Nagai,
concurrently Minister of Railways.
Minister of Education: Mr. Kakichi Kawarada.
Minister of Overseas Affairs: Mr. Tsuneo Kanemitsu.
Cief Secretary of the Cabinet: Mi. Ryuseku Endo.*
It is to be noted that four of the key posts were
assumed concurrently, with the Premier himself taking as
well the portfolio of the Foreicn Minister.
The selection of General Abe for the new Prime Minister
was, it is understood, offected by a small group of in-
tangibly powerful men around the Throne. General Abe was
aperson completely unknown in civil affairs and without
particular distinction in the Army. However, he was re-
portedly well liked on all sides and could count on the
support of all elements. He was therefore determined upon
to carry out the new "free and independent policy" that had
been decided upon beforehand. The full' and early settle-
ment of the China affair along the lines already dotermined
upon was to form the keynote of the policy, domestic as
well as foreign. At the same time domestic affairs were
to be placed on a more efficient wartime basis and efforts
were to be made to adjust the country's foreign relations
to conform with Japan's objectives in China.
The membership of Genoral Abe's Cabinet was not con-
sidered by the press as very impressive. Comment in
the
*
Embassy's telegram No. 445, August 2e, 10 p.m.
Embessy's telegram No. 448, August 29, 3 p.m.
Embassy's t.leer m No. 447, August 30, 9 a.m.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
the vernacular newspapers was to the effect that with
but one or two exceptions the men appointed were of
mediocre quality. Hewever, it was hoped trat the horast
and skill of the Premie shown in Arny politics cnd tho
small sizo of the Cabinet would make it possiole for 
to carry on an efficient administration of the Covernment.*"
(b)
Privy Council
There were appointed on August 24 three new Privy
Councillors: Viscount Chifuyu Watanabe, former Minister
of Justice, Mr. Hyoji Nikami, President of the Court of
Administrative Litigation, and Mr. Bunji Mano, an engineor-
ing expert and former President of the Kyushu Impe ial
University.
(c)
Navy
Following the change in the Cabinet, it was anrounced
that Admiral Yonai, the retiring Minister of the Navy. hind
been appointed a member of the Supreme War Council.
With
him was also appointed Vice Admiral Koichi Shiozawa as a
member of that Council. Vice Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto wes
appointed to the post of Commander-in-Chief of the Combined
Fleets in succession to the new Navy Minister, Vice Admiral
Yoshida.
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION
Nothing to report.
GOVERN ENT
*
Embassy's telegram No. 448, August 30, 4 p.m.

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
On August 25 th: Government issued bonds in the
amount of Yen 500,000,000, of which the Deposit Bureau
took Yen 150,000,000, and the Bank of Japan 350,000,000.
A portion of these bonds was offered to the public through
the Post Office. However, it is understood that bond
sales slackened during the month under review due primarily
to a heavier flow of funds into other Government channels.
It will be recalled* that the Government has been
contemplating drastic revision of the taxation system of
Japan and an increase in the tax revenues. It was announced
by the Home Office on August 24 that instoad of the Yen
500,000,000 increase as previously reported, it was designed
to increase the tex revenues by Yen 1,500,000,000. The
extra billion yen was to be made by an increase in local
tax revenues.
It was also announced during the month that minis-
terial estimates to be submitted for the 1940-4l budget
would amount to around Yen 7,000,000,000, which was to
be larger by Yen 2,450,000,000 then the buaget for the
current fiscal year.
VII. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS**
Business and financial transactions during August
were characterized by extreme caution and apprehension
as
*Monthly Report for July.
Prepared with the assistance of the office of the
Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.99)
-24 -
as a result of the series of surprising and disturbing
international events. Besides these, other factors tending
to intensify business difficulties were: the sharp break
in the New York-London cross rate; the reports of the
Government's decision to invoke further provisions of the
General Mobilization Law; and the formulation of further
control measures to regulate prices, the supply and dis-
tribution of coal, shipping, shipbuilding, lumber, rice,
and machinery.
It was reported that the Government had decided to
invoke Articles 7 and 8 of the General Mobilization Law
to permit Government inspection of annual accounts of all
concerns capitalized at over l0 million yen with a view to
regulating expenditures and control over distribution of
profits of some 500 major industrial and business organi-
zations.
On August 8 two Imperial Ordinances were promulgated
putting in force provisions of the Rice Distribution
Control Law. These referred to the regulation on cornering
and hoarding of rice, price control, and the distribution
of the sale of rice throughout the country. According to
these regulations, on August 25 the maximum sales price of
rice was set at Yen 38.00 per koku (1 koku being 4.96
bushels).
It was reported at the end of the month that the
Central Price Policy Commission had decided upon the
establishment of a new semi-official coal company, to be
capitalized at Yen 100,000,000, which was aimed to create
a Government monopoly of the distribution of coal. It is
undorstood

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
- 25 -
understood that this company would have the power to
regulate the product on, distribution, and price of coal
and would be enabled to purchase all equipment and resour
of the existing coal traciig companies. The occasion for
such a concern was, it was reported, the need for the
drastic curtailment in the consumption of coal by the
people as a whole due to the shortage in the fulfillment
of the requirements of the national policy industries, as
well as to make up for these industries the lack of electric
power. In this latter connection, this year's shortage of
water in hydroelectric plants' reservoirs is expected to
greatly diminish the available supply of electric power.
It was reported that gas for heating purposes in the larger
cities would also be curtailed due to a reduction in the
amount of coal to be available for the manufacture of the
gas.
The stock market during the month witnessed wide
fluctuations. Up till the last week the movement was
downward but thereafter some evidence of bullish tendencies
developed from anticipation of a European war. Commodity
prices continued upward during the month. After August 25
silk prices which had been depressed again showed an up-
ward tendency. In a further effort to stem the upward
trend of commodity prices, the Central Price Policy Com-
mission reportedly recommended to the Government the
invocation of all provisions of the General National
Mobilization Law for forceful control of prices. In this
latter connection, it is understood that the new Cabinet
would very likely, in its efforts to reorganize the economy
of

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
- 26 -
of the nation on a firmer wartime basis, take measures
for the stringent control of these factors.
Money rates renaines stable during the month and no
lack of funds was eviden. Foreign exchange remained at
the rate of US$27-1/2 up to August 25th when, with he
break in the London-New York cross rate, it began to diop
and by the end of the month was approximately US25.
Shipping
It was announced on August 6 that a new shipping
company to be known as the Toa Kaiun Kaisha (ast Asia
Shipping Company) would be established and was to begin
operations in September. This concern was to involve
15 shipping compenies and have 59 ships with a total gross
tonnage of 200,000 under its management. It was designed
to coordinate and consolidate Japanese shipping in the
trade communication system between Japan and China. All
but the tramp and irreguler servicos would come under the
control of the coneern.
It was reported that the Government was seriously
considering taking measures to control production costs
of ships in Japen. it was said that this matter was
becoming a pressing one due to the very heavy increases
in the cost of shipbuilding in Japan. As indicative of
the present cost of shipbuildine, the cost per ton wes as
high as Yen 752.00 for a 1,000 ton freighter, this represen-
ting a 100 percent incrense over 1938, end a 500 percent
increase over the figures before hostilities in China begen.
Forcign

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
- 27 -
Foreign Trade
Foreign trade returns for the month of August were
given as exports Yen 377,300,000 and imports Yen 246,196,(
These represented an increase of some Yen 30,000,000 in
exports in value and a decrease of some Yen 20,000,000 in
imports in value in comparison with the month before.
The continued increase in the exports of textiles counted
for a large part in the rise of the exports. Together
with this, however, were also sizeable increases in raw
silks and machinery, and appreciable increases in the
exports of canned provisions. The latter was a seasonable
rise. Exports to the yen bloc and Hongkong were Yen
176,325,000, and imports Yen 4e,518,000, representing a
larger trade in exports and a further drop in imports over
July. The favorable balance of trade, it will be noted,
was practically entirely accounted for by the excess of
exports over imports to the yen bloc; but at the same
time Jepanese exports and imports to and from the rest of
the world were about equal.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
000 000 000

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
AUGUST
1939
No.
Date
Subject
4055
Agust 1
Northern Japanese Fishing.
4056
Promulgation of Labor Conscription Moasuro.
4057
August 1
Japanese Interference with Chinese Customs
Administration at Lungkow: French Represer-
tations.
4058
August 2
Agenda of the Fifth Meeting of the Inter-
national Radio Consulting Committee
Forwarding to Japanese Ministry of Communi-
山
cations Study of Question 18.
4059
August 2
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
John W. Parsons, Nanking.
4060
August 2
Temporary Translator Kenkichi Mori: Return
of Translator Masaru Fujimoto.
4061
August 2
Samples of Foreign Passports.
4062
August
3
Japanese assessments of political and
economic accomplishments in China.
4063
August 3
Pamphlet Prepared by the Japanese Navy
Ministry.
4064
August 3
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Lutheran United Mission Hospital, Kioshan,
Honar.
4065
August
Whereabouts of John C. (J.) Burt.
4066
August
3
Whereabouts of Robert Chester Wilson
Ettinger.
4067
August 3
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Baptist Mission Stout Memorial Hospital,
Wuchow, Kwangsi.
4068
August 4
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Baptist China Direct Mission, Tawenkou,
Shantung.
4069
August 3
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Standard Vacuum Oil Company, Nanning,
Kwangsi.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
4070
August 3
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities 1937-1939.
Baptist Mission, Shaohing, Chekiang.
4071
Agust 3
Japanese Restrictions on Purchase of
Leaf Tobacco in Shantung: British Repres
tations.
4072
August 3
Anglo-Japanese Talks Concerning Situstion
at Tientsin.
4073
August 4
American Property Losses Resulting fron
Sino-Japanese Hositilities 1937-1939:
Dr. R. F. Brady, Nanking.
4074
August
Broader Aspects of the Anglo-Japanese
Conversations Concerning the Situation
at Tientsin.
4075
August 4
Representations Concerning Cases of Assaul!
by Japanese Soldiers on American Citizens
in China.
4076
August 4
Reaction in Japan to the Notice of the
Termination of the Treaty of Commerce.
4077
August 4
Representations Regarding Japanese Inter-
ference with International Settlement at
Kulangsu.
4078
August
Diplomatic Visa Report.
4079
August
Stipulat.on and Consent Agreement
Mr. Eugene H. Dooman.
4080
August
Broadcast by the Director of the American
Bureau of the Foreien Office on American
action to terminate Treaty of Commerce
and Navigation.
4081
August 9
Drait Japanese-German Trade Agreement.
4082
August 10
Ja anese Interference with Chinese Customs
Administration at Lungkow: British
representations.
4083
August 11
Sixth Pacific Science Congress.
4084
August 12
Diplomatic Visa Report.
4085
August 14
Request for New Vault Lock.
4086
August 14
Situation at Kulangsu.
4087
August 15
Taking Testimony Abroad Under Commissions
or Letters Rogatory.

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
4088
August 15
Arrival of Clerk Nelson Newton.
4089
August 15
American Property Losses Fesulting fron
Sino-Japanes3 Hostilities, 1937-1979:
Mrs. Sadoie K. McCartney, Chungking
4090 August 16
Anti-British Activities in N rth unina
4091
August 15 . Arrival of Clerk Helen J. Skulland
4092
August 16
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1930:
Catholic Mission, Kweilin, Kwangsi.
4093 August 16
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company.
4094
August 17
Transmittal of Handbook of Japanese
Organizations.
4095 August 18
American Property Losses Resulting frem
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
American Locomotive Sales Corporation.
4096 August 18
American Property Losses Rcsulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Standard Vacuum Oil Company, Chenglingxi
Hunan.
4097 August 21
Dr. K. Kindermann, Erronooisiy Reportec o
be a German Police Official.
4098 August 22
American Property Losses Resulting frcm
Sino-Japanese Conflict 1937-1939: Standar-
Vacuum Oil Company, Ichang.
4099
August 23
Japanese-German Trade Agreement.
4100
August 23
Japanese Efforts to Acquire Oil Holdings
in Mexico.
4101
August 24
Claims of American Firms Against the
Peiping-Suiyuan Railway Company.
4102 August 25
Anglo-Japanese Conversations Concerning the
Situation at Tientsin.
4103 August 24
American Property Losses Resultin from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Mr. F. Tillman Durdin, Chungking.
4104
August 24
Precis of the Developments Necessitating
Investigation by an American Official of
the Welfare of Mr. L. W. Holland at Nanchan
4105 August 28
Statement Made to the Tokyo Nichi Nichi by
the American Chargé d'Affaires on the
Occasion of the Landing of the "Nippon" at
Nome, Alaska.

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -.
No. Date
Subject
4106 August 28
Appointment of Assistant Disbursing Offic..
4107
August 29
Seventh Quarter Examination of Mr. Glen W.
Bruner.
4108 August 22
Report of Conditions in Japan During the
Month of July 1939.
4109 August 30
Transportation of Wood Oil down the Yangtze
River from Hankow.
4110
August 26
Diplomatic Visa Report.
4111
August 31
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-1939:
Talmadge College, American Reformed Church
Mission, Changchow, Fukien.
4112 August 31
Regulations Concerning Insuring of Official
Motor Vehicles.
4120 August 31
Japanese-Soviet Relations: Japanese Coal and
Oil concessions in Soviet North Saghalien.
#
August 29
Transmittal of stipulation agreement in
connection with official bond of Frank A.
Schuler, jr.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING AUGUST 1959
No.
Date
Subject
377 Aug. 1, 2 p.m.
Appointment of Mr. Schmidt as
Assistant Disbursing Officer.
378
Aug. 1, 5 p.m.
Kulangsu situation.
379
Aug. 1, 6 p.m.
Representations on anti-foreign
propaganda in China.
380
Aug. 1, 7 p.m.
Representations on blocked funds
of American President Lines.
381
Aug. 2, noon
Press reaction to Tientsin con-
versations, at Tokyo.
382
Aug. 2, 4 p.n.
Conversation with British Ambassadcr
conveying American attitude towards
British-Japanese negotiations:
Tientsin.
383
Aug. 3, 8 a.m.
Employment of Helen Skouland to
replace Miss Russell, resigned.
384
Aug. 3, 4 p.m.
Reply to Prime Minister's message
385
Aug. 3, 5 p.m.
Requisition for disbursing officer.
386, Aug. 3, 6 p.n.
Comments to the Foreign Office on
Broader aspects of Anglo-Japanese
conversations: Tientsin.
387
Aug. 4, 6 p.n.
Explanation from the British
Embassy of so-called Craigie-Arita
agreement of July 22: Tientsin.
388
Aug. 4, 7 p.in.
Army pressure for conclusion of an
alliance with Germany and Italy.
389
Aug. 5, 9 p.m.
Reply to Prime Minister.
390
Aug. 5, 10 p.m.
Possible alliance with Gernany and
Italy.
391
Aug. 7, noon
Leave of absence of Cabot Coville.
392
Aug. 7, 6 p.m.
Anti-foreign agitation in China.
393
Aug. 8, 4 p.m.
Reply to Prime Minister's message.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
394
Aug. 8, 6 p.m.
Possible alliance with Germany anl
Italy.
395
Aug. 9, 6 p.m.
Informal representations - Univers.l
Leaf Tobacco Company.
396
Aug. 9, 7 p.m.
Representations on American Presidc,
Lines exchange difficulties.
397
Aug.10, 4 p.m. Anglo-Japanese negotiations: Tientsi.
398
Aug.10, 5 p.m.
Pos unt-op silisary aubhoritios
on kond tions t. Ktifong:
anti-
foreign propaganda.
399
Aug.ll, 1 p.m.
Representations: Palmetto Presby-
terian Mission at Soochow.
400
Aug.11, 7 p.m.
Possible alliance with Germany and
Italy.
401 Aug.11, 8 p.m.
Tientsin: decision of British to
hand over alleged terrorists.
402 Aug. 12, noon
Press reaction to above British
decision.
403 Aug. 12, 1 p.m.
Germany-Italy-Japan possible allian?
404 Aug. 12, 2 p.1.
American President Lines, exchange
difficulties.
405 Aug. 13, 3 p.m. Press reports on return of Mr. Grew.
406
Aug. 14, 5 p.m. Consolidation of offices.
407
Aug. 15, 11 a.m. Davies' trip to Nanchang, re
L. W. Holland case.
408 Aug. 15, 2 p.m. Wood oil at Hankow.
409
Aug. 17, 1 p.m. Davies' trip to Nanchang.
410
Aug. 17, 5 p.m. Davies' trip to Nanchang.
411
Aug. 18, 10 a.m. Couricr service, Tokyo-Poiping.
412
Aug. 18, 4 p.m. Represontations: Slapping of
Mrs. Richard.
413 Aug. 18, 5 p.m. Press Wiroless Radio Interference.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
414
iug. 18, 6 p.m.
Reply of Foroign Offico to represer.-
tation - Slapping of Mrs. Richard.
415
Aug. 18, 7 p.m.
British-Japaneso Tientsin nogotia-
tions: British Foroign Office stand
416
Aug. 19, 1 p.m.
Japaneso roply to above noto.
417
Aug. 19, 4 p.m.
Pross commont on British noto.
418
Aug. 19, 7 p.m.
Amorican Prosidont Lines - oxchango
difficultics.
419
Aug. 19, 8 p.1.
Davios' trip to Nanchang.
420
Aug. 21, 5 p.n.
Anglo-Japanosc Tiontsin nogotiations:
Japanose Forcign Office statomont.
421
Aug. 21, 4 P.il.
Tientsin - Domei translation of
Foreign Office statement.
422
Aug. 21, 5 p.m.
Representations - Wood oil at Hankow.
423
Aug. 22, 1 p.m.
Davies' trip to Nanchang.
424
Aug. 22, 3 p.m.
Press reaction to abrogation of
Commercial Treaty - Japan - U. S.
425
Aug. 22, 6 p.m.
NIPPON J-BACI Round the world flight.
426
Aug. 23, 11 a.m.
Representations - Peiping Suiyuan
Railway.
427
Aug. 23, 4 p.m.
Gormany - Russia - Non-aggression
treaty, press reaction.
428
Aug. 23, 7 p.m.
Reaction to German-Soviet non-
aggression treaty.
429
Aug. 23, 8 p.m.
Kulangsu - Representations made.
430
Aug. 24, 3 p.m.
Press Reaction German-Soviet treaty.
431
Aug. 24, 4 p.m.
Kulangsu - Foreign Office instructions
to Japanese Consul General at Amoy.
432
Aug. 24, 5 p.m.
Shortage of rice in Shanghai; Foreign
Office statement as to cause of.
433
Aug. 24, 7 p.m.
Possible direction of Japanese foreign
policy.
434
Aug. 25, 19 a.m. Receipt of cipher tables.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
No. Date
Subject
435
Aug. 25, noon
Japanese foreign policy. Proposed
Soviet-Japanese pact; German-Soviet
treaty; possible Cabinet changes.
436
Aug. 25, 6 p.m.
Lepartment of Communications reply to
press vireless radio interference,repo
437
Aug. 25, 7 p.m.
Rumor of proposed Japanese-Soviet non.
aggression pact.
438
Aug. 25, 9 p.m.
Japan's foreign policy visià-vis
Great Britain, France, and the U.S.
439
Aug. 26, 12 noon Pouches.
440
Aug. 26, 2 p.m. Japanese foreign policy, report on eve
441
Aug. 27, 4 p.m. Japanese foreign policy.
442
Aug. 28, 11 a.m. Resignation of iranuma Cabinet.
443
Aug. 28, 4 p.m. Suggested members of new Cabinet.
444
Aug. 28, 5 p.m. Soviet-German non-aggression pact.
445
Aug. 26, 10 p.m. Change of Cabinet causes.
446
Aug. 29, 3 p.m. Press comments on change of Cabinet.
447
Aug. 30, 9 a.m. Members of new Cabinet.
448
Aug. 30, 4 p.m. Press comments on new Cabinet.
449
Aug. 31, 3 p.m. Statement by Prime Minister Abe.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 19, 1939
JMJ:
Tokyo's monthly report for August 1939
competently summarizes the prinoipal events
but contains little that is new and
significant to FE, as almost everything of
importance has been inoluded in previous
telegrams or despatohes. Mr. Jones may wish
to glanoe at the finance and economic
seotion, pages 23 to 27. An interesting
item in those pages is a statement which
indicates the rising produotion costs in
Japan: The present oost per ton in com-
meroial shipbuilding is l00 peroent higher
than 1t was a year ago and 500 percent higher
than 1t was prior to July 1937.
894.00 P.R./141
FE: SaIMhury: MHP

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.90)
JAN10
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMEN
LEGNATNGEBTATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, Ostober 16, 1989.
FEB2B 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTE
OPOSEPTEMBER 1939.
2
JIAISISIN OF
AND RRD
吾
B
egx
Cofhy in FE
Hoprable
The Seoretary of State,
Washingt
FFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
CNI MID
894.00
INTERNATIONAL ECUNUIIC AEFA
GLJAN 12 1940
Sir:
894.00 P.R./142
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I heve the honor to transmit herewith
the  mbassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
ASS
monthor September 1939.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
American Ambassador
800
JE:hjs
MAR 4 - 1940
FILED
A
Encloshre:
Report No. 156
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
Chungking;
n
n
MosCow
n
Consulate General, Shanghai
n
7
7
Mukden
Harbin
n
Seoul and Tokyo,
Dairen
n
Osama
Kobe
" Commander-im-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.
In quintuplicate to the Departmems.
Copy to Comsulate, Magasaki

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 156
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF SEPTEMBER 1939.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.97)
I N D E X AN D S U M V A R Y
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UIITED STATES:
(a)
Japanese Request for Withdrawal of Armed Force.,
of Belligerent Euronean Nations from
Japenese Occupied Arcas in Chine.
2, 2
(b)
Chinese Meritine Customs, Swatow
and Shanghai.
2, 3
(c)
Search of American Consuler Officers
at Chefoo.
3,4
(a)
Shipment of Amirican Own d "ood Cil
from Hankow.
4, 5
(e)
Cther representetions made by the
Embus y in September.
5
(f)
General Relations
5,6, 7,
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
9,
1. Japanese Regust for Withdrawal of
the Armed Forces of the Belligerent
European Powers from Jananese
Cccupied Areus in China.
9, 10
2. Other Representations made by the
British Embassy.
10
(b) France.
10, 11
(c) Chinu
1. Military Operations
11, 12, 13
2. General Relutions
13, 14, 15
(d) Soviet Russia
1. Truce in the "Manchukuo" - Outer
Mongolian Border Fighting.
15, 16
3.
New Soviet Ambassador to Jepun.
16
(e) Italy
16
(f)
General International Relations
17, 18
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) The Cabinet
1. Platform of the Abe Cabinet
18

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
2. Expansion of the Premier's Powers
19,
3. Appointment of Full-Time Foreign
Minister: - Changes in the Foreign
Office.
19, 20
4. Establishment of a New Trade
Ministry.
20, 21
IV.
COURSE OF LEGISLATION
22
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
22
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL
CONDITICNS
22, 23, 24, 25,
26, 27
Foreign Trade
27, 28
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AITERICAN COMMERCIAL
INTERESTS
28
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREICN COMERCIAL
INTERESTS.
28
IX.
LABOR
28
X.
MISCELLANEOUS
28

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Japanese Request for Withdrawel
of Armed Forces
of Belligerent European Nations from Japanese
Occupied Areas in China.
On September 5 the Charge d'Affaires wus called to
the Foreign Office and wes presented by the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs with a copy of an identic note that hed
been delivered that day by the Japanese Government to the
representatives of European belligerent powers. Mr. Dooman
was requested to communicate the note to the American Govern.
ment "for its information". The note began with the
statement: "In the face of the war that has just broken
out in Europe, the Japanese Government intends not to
be involved therein, but will concentrate their efforts
on the settlement of the China affair."
There next fol-
lowed a request thet belligerent Governments refrain from
taking any measures that might prcjudice Japan's position
in regurd to the China affair. It was then stated that
the Japanese Government considered it necessary to offer
"a friondly advice" to those Powers "that they should
voluntarily withdraw" their troops and warships from the
regions of China under the control of Japanese forces for
the reason that their presence might "give rise to untoward
incidents and to & situation not in keeping with Japan's
policy of non-involvement". It was added that the Japanese
authorities thereafter would undertake to protect the lives
and property of the nationals of the belligerent powers.
In reply to Mr. Dooman's inquiry, Mr. Sawada stated that
this request unqualifiedly applied to the forces maintained
by the belligerents in the internationel settlements and
foreign concessions.*
No
* Embassy's telegram No. 458, September 5, 7 p.m.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
No publicity was given in Japan to this "friendly ad-
vice" given to the Briti h and French. Apparently it was
in the nature of a trial balloon or to set the stage for
future action that would iεter publicly be disclosed. In
view of the circumstances, among others the total absence
in China of forces hostile to Britain and France and the
fact that the armed forces of the foreign powers are not
maintained in China for military purposes but to give as-
sistance in the protection of foreign lives there, the
move appeared to be in effect & drastic demand on the Bri-
tish and French Governments to get their forces out of
China, for motives ulterior to those set forth in the note
and directed at undermining the position in China of
western powers.*
The Department in its telegrephic instructions
**
directed the Embassy that it might bring to the attention
of the Foreign Office the fact that any action of the
Japanese Government to force the withdrawal of British
and Franch forces in China would be construed by the
United States as a step in the direction of eliminating
western influence from China. It is noted that the
Secretary on September 6 called in the Japanese Ambassador
at Washington and in a detailed oral statement set forth
in this sense the United States Government's concern in
the matter, pointing out at the same time that the advice
given by the Japanese Government directly affected the
rights and interests of the United States.
(b)
Chinese Maritime Customs, Swatow and Shanghai.
In conformity with the Department's instructions***,
the Charge d'Affaires addressed a first-person note to the
Foreign
Embassy:s telrgram No. 459, September 6, 5 p.m.
**
Department's telegram No. 276, September 6, 6 p.m.
***
Department's telegram No. 183, August 30, 6.p.m. to Peipin

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 ..
Foreign Office protesting against the occupation for
period of more than two months ci the premises of suc
Chinese Maritime Customs at Slutow by Japanese military
forces ad against the extensive demands mede upon ties
Customs by the Japanese authorities. Mr. Lcoman pointei
out that the action teken by the Japtnese authsritics 
Swatow constituted an effective seizure of the Custons
that port and he reiterated the interest of the United
States Government in the preservation and integrity of
that organization.*
On September 7 in accordance with the Department's
instructions**, the Embassy made representations to the
Foreign Office in regard to a notification issucd by the
Chinese "Superintendent of Customs" at Shanghai of the
local regime at Nanking purporting to prohibit the use of
the gold unit notes or Chinese national curreney for pay-
ment of customs duties at Shanghai. A protest was made in
this note against dictation to the customs cuthorities by
the Japenese-sponsored regime and a request made that the
Japanese authorities cause the measure to be abandoned.***
Representations along similar lines were also made in
regard to this matter by the British and French Embassies
at Tokyo.
(c) Search of American Consular Officers at Chefco.
The Embassy was directed by the Department**** to
lodge with the Japanese Government an emphatic protest over
the
*
Embassy's telegram No. 451, September 2, noon. and
despatch No. 41l4, September 5, 1939.
**
Department's telegram No. 273, September 2, 4 p.m,
***
Embassy's telegram No. 462, September 7, 3 p.m., und
despatch No. 4131, September 12, 1939.
****
Department's telegram No. 274, September 5, 7 p.m,

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
一 4 -
the foroeful search on September 1 of the American Consul
at Chefoo. The search, made for Chinese national currency,
had been conducted by Chinese police with the support of
two Japcrese sailors. Mr. Docman in his formal note ad-
dressed to the Foreign Minister in conformity with these
instructions pointed out that the United States Government
could not admit the right of Japanese authorities in China
to seize and search an American consular officer under any
ciroumstances; that the American Government felt that dis-
ciplinary action should be taken by the highest Japanese
authorities against the officer who was responsible for
the action in that he did not issue orders that the American
Consul and other American citizens be exempted from search;
and that the American Government looked to the Japanese
Government to take definite and effective measures to stop
entirely such incidents which, it was felt, would not con-
tinue to occur if the Japanese Government issued appropriate
orders and made them effective.*
Shortly after the incident above referred to occurred,
the Americun Vice Consul at Tsingtao, who was at Chefoo on
leave, was also reported to have been searched for the same
purpose by Chinese police agents. Mr. Dooman also took
up this case with the Foreign Office and stressed the fact
that if such occurences should be allowed to continue, they
would not fail to raise an issue of serious character.
(d) Shipment of American Owned Wood Oil from Hankow.
It will be recalled that on August 2l Mr. Dooman in a
letter addressed to the Director of the American Bureau of
the Foreign Office took up the matter of the shipment of
American-owned wood oil from Hankow which had been held up
at that port since the beginning of hostilities in China.**
In
x
Embassy's telegram No. 465, September 9, 10 a.m. and
despatch No. 4130, September 12, 1939.
3*
Embassy's despatch No. 4109, August 30, 1939.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5.-
In a letter dated September 8 Mr. Yoshizawa replied to
Mr. Dooman's communication. He stated in effect that special
consideration had been g ven to this matter by the Japanese
authoritis and that a methcd was being devised for the
shipment of the wood oil to Shanghai.
(e) Other representations made by the Embassy in
September.
The Embassy made representations to the Foreign Office
during September in the following instances:
(1) Injury of Mr. Alfred Kohlberg by a shot
fired by Japanese soldiers on a launch in which he
was traveling near Swatow.*
(2) Japanese interference with travel of certain
American citizens on the Yangtze River.**
During the month of September the Embassy made repre-
sentations to the Foreign Office concerning American pro-
perty losses in China in the following instances:***
Bombing of West China Union University, Chengtu,
Szechwan.
Bombing of American Catholic Mission, Yeung Kong,
Kwangtung.
Bombing of Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, Lowang, Honan.
Bombing of Methodist Episcopal Mission, Putien, Fukien.
Bombing of Reformed Curch Mission and Evangelical
Mission at Yuanling, Hunan Province.
(f) General Relations.
There was noticeable during the month under review a
marked increase in concern and interest in Japan over
Japanese-
*
Embassy's telegram No. 469, September 9, 6 p.m., and
despatch No. 4124, September 11, 1939.
**
Shanghai's telegram No. 807, September 9, 2 p.m., and
Embassy's tclegram No. 475, September 14, 1 r.m.
***
These representations were reported in the following
despatches which are listed in the same order as the
above representations: Nos. 4135, September 18; 4136,
September 18; 4138, September 20; 4144, September 22;
4145, Sptember 22.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
Japanese-American relations. In fact, by the end of
September these relations had apparently come to take the
leading place in the pub ic eye in regard to Japanese foreiz
affairs. Such attention devoived primarily upon ccntinued
speculation of what the status of American-Japanese relation
would be following the termination of the commercia! treaty
in January 1940; upon reports that feeling against and
opposition to Japan in the United States was continually
growing; upon reports that the United States was increasing
its naval forces and defense preparations in the Pacific;
and upon concern over Japan's immediate and future trade
relations with the United States as they have been and
will be affected by the disruption of Japanese trade with
European countries and their possessions due to the war
and by the greater dependence therefore of Japan upon trade
with the United States.
On September 20 the spokesman of the Foreign Office
gave an interview to the foreign newspaper correspondents
in which he is reported to have stated that although Japan's
policy for setting up a new order in East Asia was "firm and
immutable", the fears that Japan intended to drive American
and other third-power interests out of China were ill-foundod
and ridiculous. He added, however, that in view of extensive
military operations now being carried on throughout China
there might be some instances where the interests of third
powers could not be respected in the manner desired by the
Japanese Government but that with the restoration of peace
in China the rights and interests of other powers there
would be fully respected. He concluded, after referring to
the reports that the United States was increasing its forces
in the Pacific, with the statement that the maintenance or
peace and order in the Far East is Japan's prime wish and if
suct.

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
- 7-
suoh were threatened by third powers they would have to
answer to Japan for it.
In the letter addressed by Mr. Yoshizawa tc Mr. Doom!
concerning the shipment of American-owned wood oil. frcm
Hankow wnich has been referrel to in a foregoing paragreph,
Mr. Yoshizawa also undertook a long disoussion of the
Japanese position in regard to foreign rights ond intarests
in China vis-&-vis the Japanese. He stated in this regard
that the right of navigation of the Yangtze River is one
which must be considered in connection with the rectification
of such privileged reletionships as the concessions, extra-
territorial rights, et cetera, which exist in China, and
besides the present closing of the Yangtze River wes teing
carried out for strategic reasons in connection with mili-
tary necessities. He also said thet in effect the attitude
of foreign nationals and their governments towards the
Japanese and Japanese policies had much to do with the con-
sideration that was to be given those nationals and their
interests in China.* In a later statement made by Mr.
Yoshizawa he declared that this letter was intended "for
the record only", and addressed itself primarily to the
charge that the Japanese are discriminating against Americon
interests.
At about the same time that the interview of the
Foreign Office spokesman was given there appeared a set of
obviously officially inspired editorials in the press which
predicted the worsening of Japanese-American relations. The
cditorials all were written cround reports of American de-
fense preparations in the Pacific and played on the theme
of charging that the United States was preparing to ussume
re role of watchdog for British and French interests in the
Far East. It was argued that the United States was convind
th
: Embassy'3 telegram Nos. :470, September 12, 5 p.m., 473,
September 13, 2 p.m. and despatch No. 4132, Septen ber .

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
Japan, in carrying out its program of setting up a new
order in East Asia, would seize the opportunity through
the weakness of the Anglo-French position in the Far Easr
to bring greater pressure to bear on British end Freneh in-
terests here, and that in orer to forestall these develop-
ments the United States was strengthening its naval forces
in the Pacific and Oriental waters to take & hand in the
situation. The editorials were then concluded on the note
that such policy was fraught with the danger of bringing
American and Japanese forces in the Pacific in conflict
with each other, but the hope was added that this could be
avoided through American desire not to have the clouds of
war spread over the Pacific. These editorials, it was learned:
were instigated by the Government primarily to prepare the
minds of the Japanese people for a situation wherein Japan
might be faced with positive measures directed against it
by the United States.*
II. RELATIONS
*
Embassy's telegrams Nos. 484, September 19, 3 p.m. and
498, September 22, 5 p.m., and despatch No. 4149,
September 25, 1939.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
 9 -
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
1. Japanese Re uest 1or Withdrawal of the Arast
Forces of the Bellicerent Furopean Powers trea
Japanese Occupied Areas in China.
741.
In the preceding section of this report there was ut.
lined the contents of the identic note that wa: ielivered
by the Japanese Government to the representatives of the
various belligerent European powers on September 5: 1930.
On September 12, in an aide-memoire the British Ambassador
presented an interim answer of his Government to this note.
The answer, after referring to the Japanese Government's
notice of its neutral attitude towards the European war,
merely stated that the British Government was unable to
understand why the outbreak of hostilities in Europe should
increase the difficulties between the Japanese and British
authorities in China, but that, appreciating the desire of
the Japanese Government to avoid incidents, the British
Government was anxious to settle differences by amicable
negotiations and in the meantime would consider the other
points in the note.*
Several days before this answer was made the British
Embassy also took up with the Foreign Office the requests
made of the British officials at Canton, Hankow, Nanking
and Peiping by the Japanese uuthorities at those places for
the withdrawal of British troops or gunboats. In a memoran-
dum addressed to the Foreign Office, it was pointed out by
the British Embussy with regard to the request made at Canton
that the Japanese Consul General there had gone so far as
to add hints and admonitions upon making his request that
if the request was not complied with untoward incidents might
ocour that would seriously struin Angle-Japanese reletions n
cffect
Embassy's telegram No. 472, September 12, 8 p.m.

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
affect British interests in China. It was desired that,
while the matter of the Japanese Government's requcst was
being discussed at Toky., no action be taken on the questic
in China, and that the British gunboats and armed forces
not be interfered with.*
2.
Other Representrtions Made by the British
Embassy.
During the month under review the British Embassy
made further representations to the Japanese Government
as follows:
In regard to the mining by Japanese naval authori-
ties at certain small ports on the south China coast.
In this connection it was pointed out that as no state
of war existed, British treaty rights were being unlaw-
fully infringed but that even if there were a state of
war, for the reason that there are no Chinese warships
at sea, this action would constitute a breach of the
Hague convention which prohibits the laying of mines
with the sole object of intercepting commercial ship-
ping; and it was stated that the British Government
would have to hold the Japanese Government responsible
for any damage which might be caused by such ection to
British shipping.**
In regard to the currencies and notes to be used
in the collection of customs duties at Shanghai.***
In regard to Japanese demands upon the Customs
at Swatow.****
(b) France.
The French Embassy on September 12 delivered a note to
the Foreign Office identical to that delivered by the British
Embassy
*
Embassy's despatch No. 4142, September 21, 1939.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 4125, September 11, 1939.
***
Embassy's despatch No. 4131, September 12, 1939.
****
Embassy's despatch No. 4168, October 9, 1939.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
 11 -
Embassy in reply to the Japanese Government's note of
September 5 concerning the withdrawal of forces of belli..
gerent European powers from the Japanese occupied areas of
China. Phe French Embassy alsc mede representations aicng
lines parallel to those of the British Embassy in regaru to
the requests made of the French officials by Japanese author-
ities in China for the withdrawal of French forees.
cn
September ll the French Embassy presented a note to the
Foreign Office protesting against the currencies and notes to
be used in the collection of customs duties at Shanghai.
It was announced on September 24 that Mr. Renzo Sawada,
Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, hed been nominated as
Ambassador to France and that consent for this appointment
had been reedily agreed upon by the French Government.
Mr.
Sawada was to fill the post which had been left vacant for
some time due to the French Government having declined in
the spring of the year to accept the appointment of Mr.
Masayuki Tani, now Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
(c) China
1.
Military Operations
***
In the early part of Soptember Japanese forces launched
two attocks, one against Kingmen, a town west of the Han
River in Hupeh Provinces, nd the other against Kaoan, a town
southwest of Nancheng in Kiangsi Frovince. It was not dis-
closed what was accomplished by the former attack. However,
in regord to the latter it was reported that Kaon was cap-
tured on Sortember 19.
Nith
Embassy's No. 474, September 13, 3 p.m.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 4143, September 21, 1939.
***
Prepared with the as ist nce of the office of the
Military Attaché.

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
With the fall of Kaoan there was initiated a Japanese
campaign on the largest scale that has been witnessed since
the Wuhan operations in l938, a campaign directed agcint
forces of the Chinese Nintn Wer District in the Nanchang-
Yochow-Changsha area. The Japanese reportedly brought in
two new divisions and set out with some seven to nine divi-
sions to attack what the Japanese officially estimated to
be around 400,000 Chinese troops, apparently with the ob-
jective of capturing Changsha. The Japanese started their
offensive in three main attacks: one launched from the
eouthern end of Lake Tungting, another from the Yochow-
Tungcheng line, and the third near the Tayun mountains.
Up to the end of the month the operations had reportedly
resulted in the capture of Tungcheng in southwest Hupeh;
Hsinchiang, Pingkiang and Putang in northern Hunan; and
Siushui and Santu on the Siu River, west of Wuning, in
Kiangsi. By the last day of September, moreover, the
Jap&nese unit which had driven south from Lake Tungting
wa; claimed to have reached within sixteen kilometres of
Changsha. During the campaign a number of heavy engage-
ments were said to have occurred. The Japanese claimed by
the month's end that Chinese losses were over 25,O00 killed
and over 2,000 prisoners, while Jaranese losses amounted to
some 500 killed and 2,000 wounded.
During these operations considerable fighting also
occurred south of Nanchang. Further fighting was also re-
ported in Shansi, Kiangsu, Shantung, Anhwei, Chekiang and
Kwangtung Provinces. The fighting in Shansi appeared to
be a part of the Japanese attempt that had been dragging
on unsuccessfully from month to month to gain military con-
trol of that province. In Kwangtung engagements occurred
in

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.95)
- 1.3 -
in the Tsungfa-Fahsien area throughout the month ann e
Japanese also initiated drives on the west tanks of the
Pearl River which resulted in the capture c? Shekki ortn
of Macao and Clunyshan, the birthplace of Dr. Sur Yat-sen.
Heavy bombing op raticns were carried out tv hoth i army
and navy air forces. Large units were used in coopirstion
with the land cperations while numerous reids mer? made ou
towns and cities throughout much f the unoccupied reas of
China.
2. Ceneral Relations
Following the period of inaction and absence of any
new developm-nts during the summer, there was witnessed in
Septomber a resurgence of activity on the part of Jar:n in
regard to its policy and dealings vith China. Ther: has
been noted in the foregoing the Japunsse essay witn respect
to the foreign conce sions and the Jupanese campaisn on
Chanesha. Besides these, as the first point of th: Abe
Cabinet's platform which was nnouncod on upte ber 13 it
was announced, as h.d already b en sut forth in th: Govern-
ment's notes to the foreign powers, thut te Covern: ont's
pelicy would b focused on th sottlcment of th: China ff: ir
and that all moans would be cone ntruted to tho attainment
in the imnediatu future of this und. Th s cond point of
the progrem wes that in order to ruch this a ttloment th.
Gov :rnment would r nder positive ssistance to th: ustab-
lishmint of a new rigim in Chino.
On sopt mbur 12  comnuniqué w.s issued by th Impuri
Herdquart rs rerorting that a supreme command of all Jap n
armies in China hud been stablished. Gen ral Nis ic was
appointed commander-in-chief and Licutenant General Itag!.
recently Minister of War, his chief of staff.
Th

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
- 14 -
The explanation given for this action was that it had nue
done to"facilitate firal settlement of the China incident"
presumably with the intertion of having the military policy
and plans directed by one authority to oliminate the cross
purposes and divergent aims of formerly separated army com-
mands.
A good deal of evidence uppeored during the month to
support rumors current that th Government had definitely
fixed upcn Wang Ching-wei to be the head of the new govern-
mont in China, or at least to be th: figure around which it
was to be formed. It was finally revealed during the month
that Wang had come to Japan in June and had conferred with
Prince Konoe (nd with other influenti&l persons here. The
press featured numerous articles playing ur Wang. At the
seme time it wes confidently predicted in the vernaculer
papers that all w's :bout roady for th ostoblishmint of the
new régime, probably in the first part of October, und that
Wang had successfully rallied strong sup ort in north, cen-
tral, and south Chint for his proposed now governnent.
Besides the contribution to an oarly nd of the China
affair uxpected from the su: ting up of the n w rágime,
the press affected to see in the outbren: of the Europeon
hostilities  fortuitous event to help J'pen quickly dispose
of the matter. It s f lt in this connection thit the
attention of Great Britain und Franc and uven possibly the
United tntes end Seviet Russi would be distracted from the
Far Eust, louving the Chiong Kni-shek régime without ny
outside help and Japan with  free hand to deal with China.
Moreover, the press also gre: tly omphasized the importonce
of the campaign in northern Hunan which ws locked upon s
sounding the death
knell of Changsha and & body blow to
the

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
-15 -
the "tottering" Chinese National Government.
(a) Soviet Russia
1.
Truce in the Manchukuo" - Outer Monsoiian
Border Fighting.
It was announced on September 16 that as a restlt 
negotiations conducted butwen the Japanose Aib: ssador nd
761.9.
the Soviet Foreign Commissar at Moscow a truce had been con-
cluded, to become effective that day, in the fighting that
had been going on for the past four months botween the
Japanese-"Manchukuo" forces and the Soviet-Outer Mongolian
forces along the border of Manchuria and Cuter Mongolia.
The truce provided that the forces of each side would remain
at the limits which they respectively held as of noon on the
previcus day. It wis also announced at the sane time that
agreement had also been reached to undertake negotiations to
demark the boundaries between "Manchukuo" and Cuter Mongolia
where the disputes ove: the territory had arisen. A com-
mission consistin: of two Soviet - Outer Mongolian represen-
tutives and two Japanese-"Manchukuo" representatives wcs to
be established as soon as possible and its work to be begun
immediately
therea ter. A joint commission was also to be
established to settle issues of an economic character between
Jepan nnd the Soviet Union.
The reaction in Jopan to this truce wa; generally con-
servative. The truce w's welcomed but at the same time it
was emph: sized that in the last thr e yours there had been
three large-scle incidents of border fighting and that
after each of the truces in the previcus two years cnother
incident broke out the following year. It w's held that no
satisfactory settlement cculd be effected until the entire
border from enst to  est had been delimited, and that.
although the establishment of  commission to determine the
border

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
border in the Nomonhan area was a step in the right directic!
it was premature to consider that this step would settle the
matter. It wes further stressed that there would have to be
revisioa of the attitude of the Soviet Government vis-à-vis
the China incident as a prerequisite of any constructive
adjustment of general relations.
Reports appeared during Septe. ber that a non-aggression
pact or other significant political arrangements were en-
visaged between Japan and Russia, plans toward this end being
fostered by Germany.
These repcrts, however, were generally
refuted as being entirely unfounded and the opinion given
that a far-reaching political agreement between the two
countries w's absolutely incompatible with Jaran's national
structure and policy.
2. New Soviet Ambassador to Jupan.
At the same time that it was made public that a truce
had been concluded of the Nomonhan fighting, it was announced
that the Soviet Government had appointed Mr. Constantin
Smetanin as the Ambassador to Tokyo to fill the position
left vacant by former Anbassador Mikhail Slavoutsky who left
Japon lnst year. Mr. Smetanin had formerly held the position
of Counselor of the Embassy here.
(e) Italy
The &ppointment of Mr. Eiji Amau as J panese Ambassador
to Itely was ennounced on September 29. Mr. Amau succeeded
Ambassador Toshio Shiratori who h d resigned from that post
in the first part of Septerber. Mr. Amou, a career diplomet
who has been in the J: panese foreign service for many ye: rs,
was at the time Minister to Switzerland nd prior to that
hod been from 1933 to 1937 spokesman of the Foreign Office
at Tokyc.
(f) General

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
(f) General International Relations
1.
Japan's Position in regard to the European
War.
On September 4 the Japanese Government set forth its
stand in regard to the European war in an announcement
released by the Cabinet which merely stated that "the Imperia
Government will not become involved in the conflict ... but
will devote all its energies toward resolving the China in-
cident".
. In reply to inquiries made of the Foreign Office
whether a formal proclamation of neutrality would be made,
it was stated that it was considered that the above-quoted
announcement set forth clearly the position of the Japanese
Government and that no further action was contemplated for
the time being. Universal approval was given to this declara-
tion of non-involvement in
the European hostilities, it
being held that Japan should have nothing to do with either
side in the conflict but devote its attentions to Far Eastern
affairs.
It wes intimated that some significance could be
attached to the fact that the Cabinetayannouncement
was worded
as it was rather than being expressed as a precise declaration
of neutrality. It was suggested in this regard that the
Governnent thereby had more or less
reserved its position,
to give it latitude of action
that it might wish to call
upon in the future in pursuance
its aims in East Asia
or in its position and dealings with the belligerents which
interfered with those aims.
The possibility of the outbreak of hostilities in
Europe was anticipated in Japan as in practically all other
countries.
Therefore when war did break out, although it
was a severe shock, it hardly came
 as a surprise to the
country.
The articulate Jananese feelines concerning the
war were principally confined to Jupan's position.
There
appeared

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.97)
- 13 -
appeared to be practically no opinions expressed of
partiality or taking sides with one party or the other.
Although much of the blame for the war was laid at the
feet of the Versailles ireety. the whole question of the
conflict was locked uron as a highly confused occurrence
and the complications and outcome entirely unpredictable
and fraught with unforseeable consequences.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL C NDITIOS.
(a)
The Cabinet
1.
Platform of the Abe Cabinet.
The Abe Cabinet issued a short statement on Septe aber
13 setting forth its platform. There has been mentioned in
the foregoing section the first two planks of the platform --
the concentration of all fforts on the settlement of the
China Incident and th: rendering of positive assistance to
th: establishmont of a new régime in China. There were also
three other points to th: platform. These were:
expansion
of the means of production undor a definite, comprehensive
program involving Japan, "Manchukuo". and China and the ad-
justmont of foreien trade; further strengthening of the
national mobilization structur: including pric ccntrol and
mobilizution of labor; and internal edministrative reform.
The plutform it will be noted was couched in v ry
guneral t rns, and exc nt for the point th.t Jayan
intendo
directly to take a hand in the gue:tion of creating a now
gov:rnment in
China did not roveal anything particularly
new in Janan's foreien or domestic policies. The reception
given the announcemint was not nthusiastic, anu the guneral
attitude taken by the press was that th: country was more
anxious to hear of rusults than to be giv n further statement:
of broad genoral plans.*
2. Expansion
Embassy's despatch No. 4139, September 20, 1939.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
--
2. Expansion of the Prerier's Powers.
A brief Imperial Ordinance was promulgated on Sept:mie.
29 which provided that: 1. The Governnent ninistries tra
colonial administrations snpuld consult with the Premier wi...
regard to the issuance, revision or cancellations of orders
enforcing the National Mobili ation Law;
2. the Premier
might issue directives to the Government agencies for the
enforcement of the National Mobilization Law.
The opinion expressed in the press was that this deciee
was aimed at giving the Premier greater authority with a
view to securing smoother collaboration
among the various
ministries in the application of the N.tional Mobilizaticn
Law. Its enactment raised a cood deal of opposition from
certain quarters, particularly from the Privy Council, on
the grounds that Article 55 of th: Constituticn made the
ministers individually resnonsible to the Throne and that
therefore the granting of dictatorial povers to the Premier
even in wartime was precluded.
What the force of the
decree would be was nev :rtholess uncertain as it was not
made cleer whethor the directives mentioned could he inter-
pr ted as suggestions or as orders. But there was appar ntly
latent in it unother step ulong the rath of sruatr
rogiment
tionand dictation in the governmental structure of Japan.
3.
Appointnent of Full-Time Foroign Minist r: -
Chunges in th: Foreien Offic.
On September 25 Admiral Kichiseburo Nomura was aprointe?
to the Cabinet to ti k: ov-r the portfolio of th: Foreign
Minister which Goneral Abe had held concurrently since the
Cabinet wes founded. At the seme time it was announced th
Mr. Masayuki Tani, Minister-at-large to China, had bn
selected to become Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs t. t
the

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2C -
the place of Mr. Ronzo Sawada. who lcd boen apncinted
Ambassador to France. Morecvor, it was cuthoritatively
predicted that Mr. Tatsuo Kawai would be relieved of his
post as spokesmen of th, Forign Office and be replaced hy
Mr. Yakichiro Suma, formerly the Counselor of the Japanese
Embassy at Washington.
Admiral Nomura had spent some time as Naval Attaché
in Washington and knew many public persons in the United
States. The press unanimously acclaimed his appointment
and gave as its opinion that because of his ast asso-
ciations with and wide acquaintance in America that Admiral
Nomura was chosen as the person to curry out the Government's
decision to make a concerted effort to readjust Japanes-
Amorican relations ct a time when those relations were
facing a serious test. *
4. Establishment of & Now Trude Ministry.
The establishment of a Trade Ministry was decided upon
by the Cabinet ct the end of the month. The decision fol-
lowed discussions on the nmatter which had ben carried on
in successive Cabin ts ror some time past. It was under-
stood thrt the new ministry would be inauguruted before the
end of the yer. According to the plan drafted, there was
to b. put under the Ministry a number of agencies at the
prusent constituting parts of v rious oth.r ministries and
bureeus of the Covernment.
The scope of the functions
of the Ministry will cov r not only administrative control
of foreign trade but also other f ctors such as loans, sub-
sidies, rationing of meterials to exporters, allctnent of
foreign exchange, et cetere, concerned indirectly with. or
contributory to that trede.
The likolihood was intimated
that muny adjustments would have to be made not only in
the Government but in th.
national
*
Embassy's tolegrams No. 491, September 26, noon, and
No. 495, September 28, 6 p.m.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.97)
21
national economy before the ristry coe te rut into
smooth operation.
(b) Government Proclemations
There was apnroved by the Cabinet on Sepiember 13 Por
early promulgation certain ordinances enforcing provisions
of Articles 8, 1l and 19 of the National Mobilization Law.
The ordinances prohibited for the period of one year the
increase of prices above those prevailing on September 
l939, for general commodities, insurance, storage, lan
and hcuse rentals, processing, wages and salaries. However,
as one exception, house and land rates were to be pegged 
those prevailing on August 4, 1978, rether than at those
of Septe.aber 18, 1939. Only by Government consent could
any changes upward in the prices be made thereafter.
Th sc
provisions, however, were not to apply to the prices of
goods exported to countries except those of the "yen blo..
It was considered that the enforcement of these pre.
visions of the National Mobilization Law constituted the
most drastic ster undertaken thus far in the control of th.
economic life of Japan.
The move was not altogether un-
expected as it had been under study from almost the berir.
ning of the year.
However, the dislocation of the pric
level in Japan brought about by the outbreak of hostilitiee
in Europe which resulted in sharp inereases in commodity
prices partially through speculation waa a contributory
factor in the decision to enforce the provisions at this
time.
Much conjecture was voiced in Japan as to whether
the stabilization of prices at a set level would be able in
fact to withstand the pressure that undoubtedly would to
brought to bear on them by financial and economic conditin
abroad; but still it was felt that, nevortheless, the
measure was a necessary one.
!Y.
I.. COURSE

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
- 23-
IV. COURSE OF LEGJSIATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERN ENT FINANCT.
Another issue of Yor So) coo, oco worth of nacionel
bonds was floated by the Covurnrent on Septenoei lb of which
Yen 300,000,000 were to cover the budget deficit and
Yen 200,000,000 China Incident bonds. Of the total, the
Bank of Japan accepted Yen 400,000,C00 and the Deposit
Bureau of the Ministry of Finance Yen 100,000,000. Bond
sales have reportedly been progressing satisfactorily, the
rate of absorption by the end of September being over 90
per cent of the amount issued. For the first nine months
of this year Yen 3,627,000,000 worth of bonds were issued
of which reportedly practically the entire amount was sold.
VI. GENERAL EC(NOMIC AND FIHANCIAL CONDITIONS *
The outbreak of European hostilities, following upon
94.50
the series of disturbing incidents to Japan that occurred
in July and August greatly augmented the already numerous
and perplexing problems facing the Government, business and
finance. An immediate reaction to the war was the staging
of a very enthusiastic demonstration in the Tokyo Stock
Exchange, where prices soared on Sertember 4 by from Yen 1.00
to Yen 26.00 with shipping shares in the lead followed by
fibrous groups, other export industries and shipbuilding
issues. Commodity prices also firmed immediately.
The abnormal rises in shares and goods caused grave
concern in official querters to the extent that stens wor
at once taken to counteract a dangerous price inflation.
Warnings
* Prepared with the assistance of the Office of the Commercic
Attaché.

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
Warnings were issued to stock exchanges, banks were in-
structed not to extend loans for speculation purposes, an∂
stricter economic control measures were formulated.
cushion the impact of war devalopments the Cabinet on
September 15 endorsed a new conomic policy providing
radical revisions in the materials mobilization and pro-
ductive capacity expansion plans, trade programs and
financial mobilization, with dual aims of strenthening
the defense and economic structures and of establishing
a self-sufficient economic bloc of Japan, "Manchukuo" and
China.
The surge of initial enthusiasm at the beginning of
the month soon fell off as it began to be realized that
Japan was not in as good a position as it was first sup-
posed to take advantage of the opportunities offered by
the war for a business boom. In taking stock of its
position there were found adverse fators as well as
favorable ones to be considered.
The factors favorable for an increase in Jaran's foreign
trade as
a result of the European hostilities were considered
to be (l) the opportunity for Japan to increase its sales
abroad of agricultural, marine and manufactured products
by taking up the markets formerly held by the belligerent
Powers and by even increasing sales of
those products to
the belligerent Powers themselves; (2)
the opportunity
to realize much higher prices for Japanese exnorts through
the general
increase in world prices; and (3) the oppor-
tunity to make large profits from its shipping industry
through the withdrawal of competition of much of the shipping
of the belligerent Powers and through the inreased demand
in world commerce for Japanese ships.
As

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
- 24 -
As an offset, however, to these favorable factors it
was reportedly realized thet a number of rather fornidabie
obstacles had presented themselves. In the first piace it
became apparent that higher basic prices of foreign indus-
trial raw materials, the export embargoes alreaay iaposed by
some producing countries on those raw materia s ana the
probability of export bans by others on such essential
materials as oil, copper, aluminum, nickel, iron ores,
special steels, and chemicals, wculd sericusly impair
Japan's chances of obtaining the necessary materials where-
from it could rroduce the manufactured products to supply
the markets with their demands. Secondly, it was realized
that a number of foreign countries directly or indirectly
involved in the hostilities would place import embargoes
on non-essentials, meny of which Japan was best equipped
to supply. Tuirdly, the decline in foreign exchange rates,
higher basic prices abroad, increased freight rates and war
risk insurance premiums had already substantially raised
yen prices of imported materials which must be reflected in
higher prices of export goods. Fourthly, it was stated that
Japan, in order to meet the increased demands for many
nro
1
ducts, would have extensively to expand her productive
facilities and in order to do this she would require large
imports of raw materials, seni-manufactured heavy equip-
ment and much machinery, all of which would be very difficult
to obtain under war conditions, particularly so as many of
the countries which
sunplied the raw materials and the
equipment would no
longer be in a position to sel such
to Japan. Lastly, in regard to shipping, Japan's own needs,
especially in relation with the yen-bloc countries, would
preclude its being able to make available many ships to
take

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
- 25 -
take advantage of the war-time possibilities and it was
doubtful whether she could expand her shipping fast enought
in time to profit from
the absence of competition from
other countries.
There
was one other consideration that
was also noted and this was Japan's greater relianco on
the United States for many products which had previously
in part at least been obtained from European countries.
Japan's trade already with the United States is very un-
favorable to the former and it is felt that in order to
increase her purchases from America to any great extent she
would have to do so on a credit or loan basis. These con-
ditions do
not, however, apply at the present and there
may be unsurmountable difficulties in realizing them.
Many of the measures proposed by the Government to
meet the war-time conditions were implemented during the
month under review.
Besides the promulgation of Articles
6, 11 and 19 of the National Mobilization Law mentioned in
the foregoing section of this report, another ordinance was
enforced which regulates exports to the yen-bloc arias of
a wide range of articles including machinery, lumber,
textiles and such food items as starch, vegetables, fruit,
meat, fish, oils and tea.
Restrictions have also been en-
forced on exports of machinery and metals to all markets.
Beginning October lst the allotment of coal to industries
consuming large quantities of that fuel, particularly peace-
time industries such as spinning and textiles, were to be
cut by from l0 to 20 per cent. A general petroleum sales
company was to be established to control distribution of
petroleum products throughout the country. It was reported
that the Government was considering another check to commodity
prices in the form of proposed export duties on such products
as

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.97)
- 26 -
as raw silk and canned foods. It was announced that the
Ministry of Commerce had decided to operate a :wartime
marine insuranco componsation system through a wartimo
re-insurance pool to b organized by marine insurance
companies. It was also announced that cocoons were to
be exempted from maximum price rates provided for under
the provisions of articles 6, 11 and 19 of the
National
Mobilization Law in order to permit th: silk industry t
gain the greatest benefits from the increase in the price
of silk abroad.
According to authoritetiv roports wholesale commodity
prices in Japun rose by approximatoly 5 per cunt and retail
prices by approximately 4.5 per cont in Septomber over those
prevailing in August. At the same time the price of 18
principal goods imported incroused by 5.3 por cent and the
price of 11 principal goods xported by 12.8 per cont.
There was recorded an exceptionully high jumn in the price
of raw silk from the end of August to th: end of Septembor.
During that period the verage rise was cround Yen 4oo from
the spot prices on August 30 of Yen 1275 per bale.
Money rates, despit: th: intensificd business activity
during the month under review, showed littlo change.
How-
ev r, th. Bank of Jupan'n note i sue murkedly ineruesed.
Arter the yen had travolled up und dewn with th: fluctua-
tions in the xchunge r to of th: pound, gcing at one time
down tc U.S. 21-3/16 on S ptumb:r 29, its link with st rling
wes finally dissolved n the yen pegged to the United
States dollar at the rate of Yen 1 = 23.44 unts.
Equinoxial storms in September allevieted to some
extent the water shortage in Japan, particularly in the
central and northern parts but in western Japan insufficient
rain fell to bresk the drought there which had assumed
fairly

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.97)
-27
fairly serious proportions. The scmr's lack or sur-
ficient rainfall resulted jn a two per cunt rocuotion in
the year's rice crop over that of last year.
Ti wax lso
reported that the rice stocks on hand in Japan hed urcpped
by 19 per cent from those cn hand in 1938.
Reporus
received from Korea were to the effect thet e very serious
decrease in the rice crop amounting to 42 per cent hac
occurred this season.
Foreign Trade
The statistics for the foreign trade of Japan during
the month of September were:
total exnorts Yen 382,553,000
and total
imports Yen 218,656,000 showing a favorable balanc
of trede of Yen 163,897,000. These figures compared with
those for the month of August showed a small increase in
exports and small decrease in imports.
The increase in
exports was accounted for by vory large s ipments abroad
during the last ten days of the month principally of raw
silk, canned goods und cotton textiles. The excess balance
of trade with the yen-bloc countries including Hongkong
represented most of the favoruble balance in the total
figures leaving an excess balunce of Japan's trade with the
rest of the world of Yen 2:,000,Co0, which balance was,
however, the first to have occurred this year.
The figures
for the trade with the yen-bloc countries for the month
including Hongkong were given as exports Y.n 173,535,000
and imports Yen 38,668,000.
The figures reported for the total trade for the first
nine months of the year were exnorts Yen 2,719,000,000 and
imports Yen 2,318,000,000 leaving a favorable balance of
Yen 401,000,000. The figures for the trade during the
same period with the yen bloc countries including Honkong
were

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
- 23 -
were exports Yen 1,253,000,000 and imports Yen 503,000,000
leaving a favorable balance of Yen 749,000,000. Acccrdigjy
the trede of Japan with the rest of the world in these nine
months represented an unfavorable balance of some Yen
350,000,000.
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN CCMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to rerort.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FO EIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothin€ to renort.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to reort.
000
000

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
SEPTE BER
1939
No. Date
Subject
4113 September 5
Chinese Maritime Customs, Swatow.
4114 September 2
Dipic atic Vise Repert.
4115 September 6
Intelcuticnal Congress of Aeronautical
Sciences.
4116 Sentember 6
Third International Congress for
Microbiology.
4117 September 7
Relinquishment of American Citizenship
by Individuals of the Japanese Race who
Possess Dual Nationality.
4118 September 6
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanes3 Hostilities, 1937-1939;
Baptist Mission Stout Memorial Hospital
Wuchow, Kwangsi.
4119 September 7
Transmittal of Tublicetions for the
Library.
4121 September 9
Dipiomatic Visa Report.
4122 September 11
Statement of the Japanese Government
with rogard to the War in Europe and
Armed Forces of the Belligerents in
Occupied Areas of China.
4123 September 11
American Property Losses Resulting
from Sinc-Japanose Hostilities, 1937-
1939; Lutheran Brethren Mission,
Pingshih, Honan.
4124 September 11
Injuries Caused to Mr. Alfred Kohlberg
as Result of Shooting by Japanese
Soldiers.
4125 September 11
British Representations Concerning
Japaneso Mining of Certain Small Ports
on th: South China Coast.
4126 September 12
Change in the Japanese Cabinet - the
Resignation of Baron Hiranuma and th
Appointment of General Abe as Prime
Minister.
4127 September 12
American Proverty Losses Resulting fro
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1937-193e:
Seventh Day Adventist Miasion, Nanning.
Kwangsi.
4128 September 12
Effects of the German-Soviet Non-
Aggression Treaty and of the War in
Europe on Japan's Foreign Relations.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
4145
September 22
American Property Losses Resulting rru
Sino-Jupaneso Hostilities 1937-l95?:
Reformed Church Mission and Evangelic.
Mission at Yuanling, Hunan Province.
4143
September 23
Dir lomctic Visa Report.
4147
September 25
Joranose Report on United States
Seizure Report No, 795, February 4, 1
4148
September 25
Press Reports of Proposed Negotiation.
for New Commercial Treaty between Jap
and the United States.
4149
September 25
Japenese Press Opinion on the Future
of Japanese-Americen Rclations.
4150
September 26
International Petroleum Exposition
Tulse, Oklahoma, May 1940.
4151
September 26
New York World's Fair, 1940.
4152
September 26
Marric e of American Citizens in th
Kwentung Leased Territory.
4153
September 27
Appointment of Japanese Ship Inspect
Under Panama Canai Regulations.
4154
September 27
Tientsin Situation.
4155
September 28
Representctions Made Regerding Bearc
by Chinose Police Agents at Chefoo o
Vica Consul Service.
4156
September 29
Lotu rs Rogatory, Mitsubishi Shoji
Ka isha Cas.
4157
Scpt ember 30
Diplomatic Visc Renort.

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEFARTMENT
DURING SEPTEBER 1939
No.
Date
Subjoct
450 Sept. 1, 7 p.m.
Views of the Japanese Government
with regard to the situation
developing in Europe.
451 Sont. 2, noon
Representations protusting against
the seizure of the Swatow Customs.
452 Sept. 2, 2 p.m.
Reaction of the Japanuse press to
the thr at of war in Europe.
453 Sept. 4, noon
Editorial comments on the outbreak
of war in Europe.
454 3ept. 4, 6 p.m.
Comment on press despatch by
Mowrer.
455 Sept. 4, 9 p.m.
Cabinet statement with regard to
the war in Europe.
456 Sept. 5, 10 a.m. Requisition of funds.
457
Sept. 5, noon
Repairs to the Embassy.
458
Sept. 5, 7 p.m.
Jananese friendly advice to the
belligerents in Europe to withdraw
thoir armed forces from occupied area.
in China.
459 S3pt. 6, 5sp.m.
Proposed statcment to be made to
the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
460 Sept. 6, 7 p. n. British Ambassador's telegram to
London.
461 Sept. 7, 11 .m. Pouch.
462
Sept. 7, 3 F.n.
Coll ction of Customs Revenues at
Shanghai.
463 Sept. 7, 6 p.m.
Conversution with the Foreign Minist.
464
Sept. 8, 4 p.m.
Situation on the Mongolian border.
465
Sept. 9, 10 a.m. Search of American Consul at Chefoo.
466
Sept. 9, 1l c.m. Resignation of Miss Beer.
467
Sept. 9, noon
Enployment of temporcry fireman.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Nc. Date
Subjeot
468 Sept. 9, 1 p.m. Kulangsu situation.
469 Sept. 9, 6 p m. Shooting of Kohlberg. Represen-
tations made.
470 Sept. 12, 5 p.m. Shipment of wood oil from Hankow.
471 Sept. 12, 7 p.m. Estnh ishmont of the new Supreme
Coard of the Armies in China.
472 Sept. 12, 8 p.m. Roply of the British Government
with regard to their armed forces
in occupied arens in China.
473 Sopt. 13, noon
Shipment of Wood oil from Hankow.
474 Sept. 13, 3 p.m. Reply of the Jepenose Government
to the French note with ragard to
their armed forces in occupied areas
in China.
475 Sept. 14, 1 n.m. Travel on the Tangtze.
476 Supt. 14, 4 n.m. Conforence called by the Commander
of the Japanese landing force at
Shanghai.
477 Sopt. 15,4 p.m. Declinc of the yen in terms of the
New York London cross rate.
478 Sept. 16, 3 p.m. Soviet-Japnese areement.
479 Sept. 16, 4 p.m. Announcoments concerning the Soviet-
Japanese egreement.
480 Sept. 16, 5 p.m. Search of Vice Consul at Chefoo.
481. Sept. 17, 4 p.m. Press reaction to the Soviet-Japanus
truce.
482 Sept. 18, 6 r.m. Soviet-Japanese agr3ement.
483
Sept. 18, 7 p.m. Soviet-Japanuse agreement.
484
Sept. 19, 3 p.m. Pross prediction on Japanese-
Americin relations.
185 Sept. 1, 5 p.m. Minister for Foreign Affairs -
ppointrent of.
486 Sent. 19, 6 p.m. Extra-Sottlement read at Shanghai.
487 Sept. 20, 4 p.m. British representations.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.97)
-3 -
No. Date
Subject
488 Sept. 22, 4 p.m. Attack on Mrs. Womble  t Teihoku.
489 Sept. 22, 5 p.m.
Am:rican-Japanese rel:tions. Con-
vers:tions with the Foreign Office
in regard to press reports.
490 Spt. 25, 4 p.n.
A ncintment of Admiral Nomura as
M.nister for Foreign Affairs.
491 Sopt. 26, noon
Pruss reaction to appointment of
Adniral Nomurc.
492 Sept. 26, 1 p.m. The Jupanese Ambessador et Washingt.:
493
Sept. 26, 3 p.m. Search of Vice Consul Service at Che.
494
Sept. 27, 7 p.m. Departure of Mr. McGurk.
495
Sept. 28, 6 p.m. Interview with the Foreign Minister.
496
Sept. 29, 5 p.m.
Assignment of a new Ambassador to
Washington.
497 Supt. 39, 11 a.m. Anglo-Jpanese relations. Resumpti.
of convers: tions rugarding Thentsin.
Pross reports.

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 19, 1940
Tokyo's despatch no. 4269, November 30,
1939, entitled "Report of Conditions in
Japan During the Month of October 1939".
In a press interview on October 30 the
Japanese who 1s Vice Governor of the Hua Hsin
Commeroial Bank was alleged to have stated
that the new regime when established will not
recognize the Chinese national currency,
whioh will be "wiped out of existence".
In mid-October there was held at Tokyo
an economic conference of representatives of
Japan, "Manchukuo", and north China for the
purpose of examining the entire industrial
structure of the yen bloo. Some hundred
delegates attended. In connection with the
opening of the conference there appeared in
the press various articles interpreting the
"new order in East Asia" as a Far Eastern
economic bloc necessary to Japan because of
the disappearance of free trade in inter-
national relations. It was stated that the
Far Eastern economic bloc could be made self-
sufficient in almost all major resources
needed for present-day economic life except
(1) petroleum, (2) copper, and (3) rubber.
On October 3 the Japanese War Office
officially announced that Japanese casualties
suffered during the Nomonhan fighting had
amounted to 18,000. This release came as a
startling

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
startling bolt to the Japanese public and has
apparently undermined the assumption of the
Japanese public that the Japanese Army 1s
easily superior to the Soviet Army.
Replacement of Mr. Shiratori as Japanese
Ambassador to Italy and of General Oshima as
Ambassador to Germany (the new ambassador to
Germany being Mr. Kurusu) marks a return on
the part of Japan to a more formalized state
of diplomatic relations with Germany and
Italy.
At page 26 is a brief statistical state-
ment of the Japanese national debt and of
flotation of bonds. It was reported that
when an 1ssue of 600,000,000 yen in national
bonds was offered in October, only 47.9 per-
cent of the bonds issued during the month
were assimilated.
On October 24 the Japanese Government
officially confirmed that the yen was pegged
to the United States dollar. It had formerly
been pegged to the pound. The rate 1s
23-7/16 cents.
894.00 P. R./143
CC
FE: COV111e: MHP

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
Division of
FRA EASFEAN AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
JAN911940
OFICE OF THE AS
Departmei ui Stale
ANE
JAN 23 1940G
DEPAHIMENI OF STATE
No. 4269
Tokyo, Nove..ber 30, 1939
SUBJECT: REPCRT OF CCNDITICNS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
0
OF CCTCBER 1939.
2
Cofy in FE
894.00 P.
2
in
The
Honozable
MAD
The Secretary of State,
Washingten.
FEB 1 2 1940
898
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
43
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
Japan for the month of Cctober 1939.
Respectfully yours,
PORETARY
EB101940
Joseph C. Grew
FFP
American Ambassador
11D
800
JE:hjs
Enclosure;
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copies to Embassies at Peiping, Chungking, 'oscow.
Copies to Consulates General at Shanghai, Mukden, Harbin,
Sooul and Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates at Dairen, Osaka, Kabe, Nagamaki,
F1
Nagoya, Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatie Fleet.
N

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 157
REPCRT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MOINTH OF CCTOBER 1939.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.95)
I N D E X A N D S U M MA RY
I. RELATICNS ITH TIE UNITED STATES.
(a)
Anbassador's Address Before the America
Janan Society
2.84
(:)
Extra Settlenent Rcuds Area, Shanghei
!.
(c)
International Settlement at 'ulangsu,
Amoy
è
()
Search of American Consular Officers
at Chefoo
6.7
(e)
Other Re resentatiuns made by the
mbassy in October
7,8
(f)
Ceneral Relations
8,9,10,11
II. RELAT CUS ITH OTHER CCUNTRIES
(a) Creat Fritain
12
Representations made by the British
Embassy to the Foreign Office During
Cctober
12,13
(b) China
14
ilitary Cnerations
14,15
Ceneral Relations
15,16,17
(c) Japan -  anchu'tuo' - China Ploc
17,18
(d) Soviet Russia
18
#：
Nomonhan ighting
18,19,
Cenerel Relat ons
19,20
(e) Cermany
20,21
(f) Dulgaria
21
(g) Iran
21
III.
IUTTRAL PCLITICAL CCNEITTONS
(a) The Cabinet
21
1.
Dissension in the Foreign Cffice
cver roposed Trade inistry -
Advisors for Foreign Cffice
21,22,23
2.
The A rointnent of full time
Africultural and Forostry Minister
23,24
3. Position of the Abe Cabinet
24
(b)
Important 3tatements of Covernnent
(fricials
24,25

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.95)
- 2 -
IV.
CCURSE CF LEGISLATION
25
V.
GOVERNENT FINANCE
46.27
VI.
GENERAL ECONCMIC A D PINACIAL CCIDITICNS
27 33,29,30
Foreien Trade
30.F1
VII. ACTIVITIES OF / RICALL COMRCTAL INTEREST
37
VIII. ACTIVITIaS OF FOREICN COC:ERCIAL INTERESTS
31
IX.
LABCR
31
X.
MISCELLALOUS
31

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
(a)
Ambassador's Address Before the America-
Japan Society.
Upon his return to Tokyo, on October 10, from leave of
absence in the United States, the Ambassador delivered before
123861
the America-Japan Society at a luncheon held on October i9 a
most significant and outstanding aadress on American - Japanese
relations. The speech was & plain and direct exposition of
the American attitude and stand tcwards Japanese actions and
policies concerning China and brcught into clear relief the
issues between the two courtries that had arisen in that
regard. It represented a definite nark in the United States'
diplomatic relations with Japan, ranking in significance with
the Amer ican Govern ent's notes of October 6 and December 30,
1938; but this step carried far-reaching significance in
that it presented to the Japanese poople for the first tine
in precise forn the entire scope of the probleus of American-
Japanese relations.
The addreis in its entirety was made
public and printed in full in all the Japanese press.
A brief resume or the text" may be iven as follows:
After stressing the weicht of American public opinion on the
policy and actions of its Gevernment and the fact that Ameri-
can public opinicn was hased on facts and a studied examina-
tion of the best of infornation, ir. Grew stated that the
American people had come to the unanimous opinion of strongly
resenting some or the thin's the Japanese armed forces are
now doing in China, iucluding thoce arainst Anrican rights
and interests. In then settin forth the position of the
Am rican people, he pointed cut that the pulicy of the United
States is based on a fervent desire for internat'onal peace
resting
Erbassy's despatch no. 4186, Cctober 1, 1939.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
resting upon orderly processes in international dealings.
He said that another cardinal principle of American policy
is equality of commercial opportunity. He noted that this
was not a policy maintained by the United States alone
inasmuch as Japan itselr hed also insisted upon the open
door in various parts of the world other than China. He
then spoke of the carge often heard in Japan that the
American Government and people did not "understand the
New Order in East Asi&" and declared that this was not the
case. He noted that the new order had been officially
defined by Japan as an order of security, stability and
progress, and that as such it was fully understood and
appreciated by the United States. He pointed out, however,
that with this program there had been included other things
which the American people could not accept. He then set
forth in general terms instances of the violation of American
rights and int rests, the bombings and other damaging of
American property, the impairment of American commercial and
economic interests and the infliction of personal indignities
on American citizens. He said, moreover, that the American
people had good reason to believe from reliable evidence that
Japan was endeavoring to
establish control in China for
Japan's own and sole interst by a system of closed and
exclusive economy. In conclud ing his address he made a
vigorous appeal for a removal of the causes of the issues
between the United States and Japan in order that an essen-
tial improvement might be attained in the friendly relations
between the two countries.
The

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
The volume of press comment concerning the address
that appeared immediately after its delivery, and the arrey
of editorials and feature articles in the newspapers giving
searching studies of the contonts of the speech which fol-
lowed the release of the full text and which continued
throughout the rest of the month, were indicative of the
profound effect it had in Japan.
The first reaction was one of deep shock and bewilder-
ment and the immediate recoil from this initial effect took
the form of a wounded and defensive attitude. Ianoring en-
tirely the primary question raised by Mr. Grew of the damage
to American rights anc interests by the Jananese military
in China, and disregarding the fact that the American Govern-
ment had already set forth its stand that treatics were not
forever unalterable, the press declared that Mr. Grew's
address as a formal expression of American official opinion
showed that the United States had failed to realize that
the Nine Power Treaty ccnel uded twenty years ago was no
longer applicable to Eastern Asia, was anachronistic and
completely out of keering with the changed situation that
had come ahout in this rart of the world, that the United
States which has itself set up srecial political and
economic arrangements in jouth America, still failed to
take into consideration what Japun was attempting to do
with regard to the "new order', and that, al though in the
United States' opposition, Janan would "find thorns in its
path" in attainins its aims, nevertheless there would not
be the slightest deviation from its "immutable policy".
Some of the more extremist views put forward characterized
the address as tynical of American arrogance and insolence
and

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
and averred that following this open announcement of America's
oprosition to Janan this country should give up "its boot-
licking diplomacy toward the United States" wherein Japan had
maintained a servile attitude of making every effort to court
American favor and to defer to American wishes.
After a lapse of a few days and after the full text of
the speech had become known, a more studied and reasoned view
appeared in the comments upon it. Acknowledgment was made of
the frank, accurate picture of the American attitude toward
Japan which Mr. Grew had painted and it was said that the
speech was courageous and to be apnreciated. There were heard
on many sides requests for enlightenment as to the exact
character of the damage sustained by Americans in China and
encroachment on their interests. There was also in evidence
some recognition that there may have been a good deal of
justification in Amorican complaints regarding the treatment
of its rights and interests in China, and a demand developed
in some quarters that concrete steps be taken to repair the
unfavorable relations with the United 3tates. Other oninions
voiced were to the effect that Japan should change its views
with regard to the American position. In this last connectior
a significant assertion was made that Janan had been resting
under a delusion that the abrogation of the Treaty of Commerce
and Navigation was an action taken by the United States solely
for domestic and political purposes.*
(b) Extra
*
Embassy's despatch no. 4223, November 7, 1939.
Embassy's telegrams 535, 0ct. 20, 11 a.n.; 537, Cct. 21, 6 r..
541, 0ct. 22, 5 p.m.; 542, 0ct. 23, 6 p.m.; 554, 0ct. 25,
5p.m.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
(b) Extra Settlement Roads Area, Shanghai.
In conformity with che Department's instructions, *
the Emra:y made representations to the Foreign Office in
regard to the situation that hnd arisen with respect to the
893.102
attempts by the Japanese-sponsored municipal regime at
Shanghai to encrcach upon and interfere with the functions
of the police of the International Settlement on the extra-
Settlement roads in the western part of Shanghai. It was
pointed out in the Embassy's note ** to the Foreign Office
that some 500 American citizens are residing in the western
part of Shanghai and that therefore the American Government
is seriously concerned over the maintenance of peace and
order in that area. In this latter connection it was
observed that the enclaves between the roads had become
rendezvous of lawless and vicious elements and was also
infested with disreputable establishments. It was requested
that the Jananese Government use its influence with the
Japanese-sponsored regime to the end that that regime elimi.
nate the lawless elements and by arrangement with the Settle-
ment authorities remove the friction over the policing of
the extra-Settlement roads.
By note dated Cctcber 26, the Foreign Office replied
to these representations stating that the Japanese Consul
General at Shanghai had been instructed to use his good
offices in the matter.***
(c) Internatioral
Department's 379, Sept. 30, 1 p.m. and 382, 0ct. 2,
8 p.m. to Shanghai.
** Embassy's telegram no. 50l, Oct. 4, 5 p.m. and
despatch no. 4165, 0ctober 9, 1939
***
Embassy's telegram no. 568, Nov. 2, noon, and
despatch no. 4311, November 2, 1939.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
(c) International Settlement at Kulangsu, Amoy.
It will be recalled that since May of this year negotia-
tions have been held for settlement of the issue that arose
last spring over the International Settlement at Kulangsu,
Amoy. On October 16 the Enbassy was informed that the final
draft of an agreement between the Japanese authorities and
the Kulangsu Municipal Council had been approved by the Japanes
Government. On the following day the agreement was reached at
Kulangsu. On October 18 the Japanese and American Marines -
the British and French Marines having departed during Septem-
ber - left the Settlement. *
Comment on the settlement in
the Japanese press was to the effect that it was to be wel-
comed not only as a means of establishing peace and order in
the Settlement but also to show the way to approach the problen
of the Settlements at Shanghai and Tientsin. It was further
added that the lesson taught was that there were few problems
arising from the China incident which would not yield to
solution if taten from the view of accenting the new situaticn
in China.
(a)
Search of American Consular Cfficers at Chefoo.
It will be recalled that the Embassy in September made
representations to the Foreign Cffice protesting against
the search of two American consular officors at Chefoo. The
Embassy received on Cctober 23 replies to its representations
from the Foreign Office in which regrets were
expressed for
the search and assurances iven that strict orders had been
issued
Embassv's teleram no. 525, 0ct. 16, 3 p.m.
Amoy's telegram October 17, 9 p.m.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.95)
- 7 -
issued to prevent the recurrence of such incidents. *
(e) Other Representations made by the Embassy in
October.
The Eabassy made reoresentations to the Foreign Office
during October in the follo: ing inslances:
1. Interference by the Honan Provincial authorities
with the educational activities of the Sisters of Providence
of the American Catholic Mission at Kaifeng, Honan.**
2. Japanose interf rence with and discrimination
against the Universal Leaf Tcbacco Comrany in China.***
3. The reported intention of & J-punese-sponsored
regime at Nenxin to assum: control over the functions of
the present Insrector General of the Chinese iaritime
Customs at Shanghai.****
4. Requirement of the Japanese authoritios at Tsingtao
that Ameri can citizens conform to cholera preventive measures
at that port.*****
5. Currency restrieticns imposed by the Japanus.
authorities at Canton.
6. Intarf rence by a Jupanes: radio station with the
rec:ption of broadcasts from th: An rican radio station at
Treasure Island, San Francisce.
7. Anti-Amurican agitution at Chunliu, Honan.
During
2
Embassy's telosram no. 553, Cct. 25, 4 p.m.
despatch no. 4207, Nov. 3; no. 4208, Nov.3.
* *
Embassy's despatch no. 4159, Cctoher 10, 1939.
***
Embassy's tel gram no. 51l, Cct. 9, 5 p.m.
despatch no. 4170, (ctober 9, 1939.
 + *
Embassy's dusratch no. 4177, October 10, 1939
despatch no. 4123, November 6, 1939,
*****
Enbassy's telegrams no.529, Oct.18, noon and 550,
Oct. 25, 11 a.m. Despatch no.4189, Oct. 26.
******
Embassy's t-1 gram no. 536, Cct. 21, 11 a.m.
desratch no. 4190, Cctober 1, 1939.
*****
Embassy's telugram no. 520, Cct. 14, 6 n.m.
despatch no. 4203, Nev...bor 2, 1939.
**********
Embassy's telegran no. 531, Cct. 18, 2 p.n.

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
During the month of October th: Embassy made represen-
tations to tho Forsign Office concerning American prcperty
losses in China in the following instances.*
Bombing of:
Methodist Episcopal Churel, South, Shuanglin
Southern Baptist Mision, Laichow, Kwangtung.
Southern Baptist "ission, L ichow, Kwangtung.
Evangelical Church Mission, Chungking, Szechuan.
Seizure of:
Property of Bishor Philipre Cote, Catholic Mission,
Hsuchow, Kiangsu.
Bombing of:
Evangelical Church Mission, Liling, Hunan.
(f) General Relat ons
Jepanese comments, vhich hove been deseribed in oro.
going paragranhs, refleetive ef the reaetion to M. crow's
speech generally apneared to characterize both public and
official opinion in Japan during Cctober of the gen. ral
relations between the two countries. With the Japanone people
as a whole brourht to think very seriously and constrietivoly
on the subject of these relat ons, there was a seabiance, at
least, of an awakening to realisatien that not only wore
Jananese relat ons with the United States over affairs in
China not right but that it might not te no sible Por Japan
to rush aside those affairs as trifling ineonsequential
matters. Above all else th: re was a stirrins of marted
coneern
*
These representations were reported in the foli ine
despatches which are listed in the same order as the sbove
representations: Nes. 41:7, October 9; 4169, October 9;
4172, October 10; 4174, Cctober 10; 4171, October 10;
4185, 0ctober 18, 1939.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.95)
- 9 -
concern over the expiration of the Treaty of Commerce and
Navigation to be possibly foliowed by embargoes, and elthough
this feeling, as cutwardly manifested, was one of ccnridence
that Japan could cone witi any ituation that might arise,
still the realization of on rtspects of such e situation
were disturbing.
On October 2l, Admiral Nomura, whom it will oe recalled
had been appointed to fill the Foreign inistry portfolio in
late September, made his first public staterent concerning
Japanese foreign relati ons. *
The vague remarks he made with
regard to Japanese relations with the United States were in
effect that he honed the United States cculd come to under-
stand the Jaranese unshakable resolution to "re-build" East
Asia and to realize that, at the same time that Amorica w.
maintaining peace in the American area and Japan in  
Eastern area, both shcula endeavor to establish ace in th
Pacific Ocean. He was also reported to have statel tht it
was planning to have a talk with Ambassador Grew  xchunse
views with him.
This last remar: or the Fereign Hinister wa,  up
by the press to mean thut the Jepanese Goverrment 1 pied
to enter into diseu sicns with the United States or
adjustment of rolations b twen the two sountri.n 
storm cf comment that ensu d regarding sueh e ple: t war
unanimously and strongly stressec that the paramount noint
around which any underatanding with the United st  mu:t
revolve had to be Ja an's determination to
carry c: its
plax
Embassy's teloram no. 539, Cetober 21, 11 p.m.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
plans for East Asia and American recognition of that fact.
Besides this, the demand was gonerally made that the United
States should recognize also that an actual state of war
existed in China. It was argied that damage to third Power
interests was inevitable duri ig hostilities, and that foreign
rights and interests would be temporarily subordinated to
military interests in the sameway as if war had been actually
declared. Tue more moderate and liberal sections of Jaranese
orinion then advanced as the basis for adjustment of relations,
together with the foregoing conditions: Willingness to con-
clude on the part of the United States a new commercial treaty
or temporary agreement; on the part of Japan, the taking
into account of American complaints, respect for international
law, and orderly settlement of international differences, the
maintenance of the open door and equality of oppcrtunity in
China, immediate cessation of bombings, insults, killings,
etc., and such a concrete example of good intentions as the
opening of the Yangtze and Tearl Rivers.*
On October 30 the Foreign Office spokesman stated that
the Government had no intention at the present time of
initiating any negotiations with the United States and des-
cribed the predictions to the latter effect in the press
as "purely imagination". 
As further material for tho confusion in Jarun on the
whole subject, there was attributed to
the Foreign Minister
in the
*
Emhassy's telegrams nos. 55 , 0ct. 25, 5 p.m.; 555, 0ct.26,
5 p.m.; 559, Cct. 27, 12 r.m.; 561, Cct. 30, 7 p.m.;
565, Cct. 31, 8 p.m.; Despatch no. 4225, November 7, 1939.
**
E...bassv's telegram no. 561, 0ct. 30, 7 p.m.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.97)
-11 -
in the press a statement said tc have been made before the
Cabinet on October 25 "that American opinion was so unfavorabl
that it was doubtful whether Japan's wishes could be realized
in the coming negotiations with the United States"! Moreover,
the Foreign Office spokesman, Mr. Yakichiro Suma, formerly
Counselor of Embassy at Washington, made several remarks
during the month to the effect that despite what Ambassador
Grew had said there was a deplorable ignorance among the
American people about conditions in the Fur Eust, that the
United States was challenging Jaran by abrcgating the treaty,
and that the United States was just jealous of Janan anyway.*
II. RILATTCNS
*
Ebassy'; no. 544, 0ctober 23, 10 p.m.
Embassy's desrutch nc. 4228,  ove ber a, 1939.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER CCUUTRIES
(a)
Great Britain.
There were no new developments in Anglo-Tapanese
relations during Cctober. Ir: period as regards the dealings
741.94
between the two countries wes one of relative inactivity and
quiet. Fcilowing the trend noticeable in September, agita-
tion in Janan arainst Great Britain, which had reached a
peak of furor only several months before, had practically
vanished. Some speculation appeared in the press over a
re-opening of the discussions on the Tientsin Cuncession
question. It was stated that only the currency and silver
transfer issues remained to be settled and it was suggested
that an arrangement might be reached in regard to these
problems without resort to a full-dress conference, but
rather through conversations between Admiral Nomura and
Sir Robert Craigie. It also appeared that informal con-
versations to this end had transpired and that, furthermore,
feelers had been put out for the initiatior of conversations
on all outstanding issues between Japan and England.
Runresentations m de by the British E bassy to the
Fureicn Of:ice During Cctober.
During the month under review the Eritish mbassy made
representations to the Jupanese Government in the following
instances:
With further regard to the Slanghai-Nanking Railway,
settin: forth, with refurence to the British representations
made on July 4, 199, British interests in that railway and
recounting Jur:nese interference with and arbitrary treatment
of those
*
E..bassy' nos. 498, 0ct. 21, 12 noon; 499, 0et. 3, 4 p.m.;
543, Oct. 23, 7 p.n.; 557, 0ct. 27, 7 p.m.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
- 13 -
of those interests.*
With regard to anti-British activities in North Cnina,
settin forth specific instances of arbitrary and damaging
treatment accorded Bitish intsrests in North China by the
J. "anese aut crities or authcrities of the local Japanese-
sponsored Cinese re ime. I the note from the British A.bas.
sador to the inister for Foreign Affairs by which these
representations were made, Sir R,tert Craigie alluded to a
conversation which he had with Au..iral Numura on October 1l,
during which the latter reportedly stated that attention
would be given to the British comnlaints on presentation of
infornation concorring the precise activitios in question.
Ith further regard to the detention of the British
merchant shir S.S. 'Sres'. I  note dated Ostober 23 to
the Vice Minister for Fureign Arfairs, the British A bassador
referred to his comnunication or June 23. He pointed out that
despite those and numerou; other representations made to the
J..anese Covernment, the J. anese authorities were still
holding at the Pescadores Islunds this British vessel fcr
rparently no justifiable reason.*
In regard to th: rerorted allt ed intent:on on the vart
of the local J. anese-soonscred rerime at N nking to take
cver control of the functions of the present Insnector
General of the Chinese Maritime Customs at Sranghai.***
Ii. regard to interference with the policing of the
extra-Sottlement rcads area, Suenghai.****
(∴) China
Embassy's desratch no. 4184, Cctober 18, 1939.
* >
E bassy's desnetch no. 4224, November 7, 1939.
** *
J'bessy's desratches nos. 4177, Cctcber 10, 4213,  . 7.
* * × *
Embassv's desnatch no. 4l63, Cetober 9, 1939.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
(b) China
1.
Military Onerations*
It will be recalled that during September the Japanese
military had launched large scale operations in the Nanchang-
Yochow-Changsha re-ion direct:i against forces cf the
Chinese Ninth Yar District in that area and apparently with
the ultimate objective of capturin: Changsha. It will be
further recalle that one body of Japanese soldiers was
claimed by the end of Septe ber to have reached within eleven
miles of Changsha. After the beginning of October no fur-
ther reports were heard regnrding this campaign and it soon
anreared thet the Jananese had met a severe check in their
drive and had failed to take Changsha if they had not in fact
been actually driven back by the Chinese defense. On Cctober
, a communiqué was issued by the military headquarters
"exlaining" the situation to the effect that the military
operaticns in question had as their principal curpose the
destruction of the rightinf calibre of the enemy troops
and not tre capture of a strategic point".
Further fairly heavy fithtine continued arcund Siushiu
in western Kiangsi.
The Ta anese claimed to have defeated
in soveral
engagements Chinese rorces in that area. Opera-
tions were underteken during the month against a sizeable
fcrce of guerillas in the Tiangsu-Anhwei-Chekiang area with
the anrarent purrose of clcaring away these Chinese forces
which had been obstructing navigation cn the inland waterweys
in that
*
Prepared with the assistance of t e office of the Military
Att ché.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.98)
- 15 -
in that region. The Japanese claimed to have successfully
concluded the operations by the midle of S:ptember. Other
engagements were renorted to have occurred in Shans!.
Shantung, Honan, Hupeh, and wanftung. In the Jast named
province it was announced thc: she Javanese forces were
withdrawn from Chungshan in deference to Sun Ya-sen, who
was born there.
The Jananese air forces durin the month under review
were reported to have been very active in carrying out any
air raids over large areas of unoccupied China. Communi-
cation centers in Shensi and "ansu in the northwest,
Szechuan, Hupeh, and Hunan in central China, and Kwangsi
in south China, were severely attacked. Despite frequent
raids made egainst air fields, particularly in S echuan,
Funan and Hupeh, it a reared that the Janunese Army ad been
unsuccessrul in its objective of rutting the Crinese cir
fcrce cut of commission, for on October l: the
Chi.ese
conducted an effective raid against the Jananese
military
airfield at Hankow.
2.
General R:laticns
Contrury to rerorts thet wera current curing Sortember
tc the effect that  nev recime in Chine wculd be ready
for establishnent in (cto'er, such did not occur. It
should be noted in this connection that during the course
of the Changsha campairn the press in J pan hinted that
uron the execution of those ilitary operations there would
have been create a favorable oprortunity to launch the new
regire. Howev r, regardless of this possible setback in
Japanese plans, the establishnent of the new regime was,
after the micdle of October, acain strongly played ur in
J  an. ang Cing-wei was definitely naned as the person
who

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
- 16 -
who would head this government. It was stated that J: pan
would have no dealings whatsoever with the Chinese National
Government but would depend solely unon Wang's administration.
On October 3l the sookesman cf the Foreign Office reportedly
stated that it was exrected that the administration would be
set up within a month's time.
In an interview renorted in the press on October 30,
Mr. Isoichi ashio, Vice Guvernor of the Hua Hsin Cc.mercial
Bank, while on a visit to Janan, was renorted tc have stated
that the new regime when established would not reco~nize the
Chinese Mational currency and that thereafter it was expected
that the currency would be "wiped out of existence toether
with the Chungking Governlent'.
Much pro.ninence was given in tho Jananese press durin
the month under review to reports emanating principally from
ungkons to the off ct that sericus dissension had arisen
tetween C.inese co nunists and the Kuomintang. It was alleged
that the 8th Route Army had been movins back towards its base
in Siensi as a result of a dcisi on by its leaders to esta-
blish the autonony of the Chinese Soviet and proceed with
the sovietization of Ncrthest China. A declaration by
Vac Tse-tung on (cteber 19, calling fcr nore active resistance
against Javan and warning that the uomintang was in danger
of deminat: on by cle ents favcring peace with Japan, was
cited as further nanifestation of this dissension. It was
held that the "Chiang Tai-shek government stood at the cross-
roads to decide whether it should depend on Soviet help by
subiltting to the influence of the Chinese Comunists or
whether

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.97)
- 17 -
whether it should listen to the advice of Britain and France
to see: peace with Japan". Reports were also featured that
General Chiang Kai-shek was neving difficulty with the Yunnan
provincial authorities and hac found it necessary to transfer
large forces to that province to as ure its continued adherence
to his governmont.
(c) Jaran - Hanchuiuo" - China Bloc
During the miadle of the month there was held at Tukyo
an economic conferenoe betyeen the representatives of Japan,
Manehukuc" and Morth China for the nurrose of examining the
entire industrial structure of the 'Yen bloc re ion". Some
loo delegates attended the meetings. T:c emphasis appeared
primerily to have centered on the iron and coal production
and distributior problens of the regions. No ccncrete results.
anparently, were attained but a formula as reported fixed
upon where in N.rth China and ngolia junkian would con-
centrate on the production of coal, Japan on iron, and
"anchukuo" on both.
In connection with the openin of the
c nferance there apncared in the pres: various articles
dwelling upon the eccnomic aspeet of Ja an's ains of setting
up " new crder in East Asia".
It was held in these accounts
thet thr ugh the econemic bloc for East Asia, Janan could
build u" in this part of the world a unit comparable in scope
with any other economic bloc in the world.
. It was claimed
that Jepan hud beon driven to the necessity of creating such
a unit due to the faet that free trade had disapneared from
the world and
that the world had been divided up into senarato
economic

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.97)
- 18 -
economic systems for the sole benefit of the sponsor or
members of each system. It was said that the Far Eastern
economic bloc could be made self-sufficient in almost all
the major resources needed for present day economic life
with the exception of petroleul, copper and rubber, but
that substitutes could bo develoned to a great extent to
take the place of these necessities, and that Jaran throuth
this bloc could therefore be transformed into a 'have"nation.
(d)
Scviet Russia
1. Nomonhan F:htinf
I formation which began to come to lirht during Cctober
revealet that the fishtinf in late Aogust along the iongolian
761.90
border had actually been on a large scale and resulted in a
none too favorable outcone for the Jaranese. Tre matarial
of the Soviet mechanized forces greatly outclaseed hat of
the Jepanese particularly as to tan''s ane other mechanized
equipment. ith this materiel the Soviet forces had driven
into the Jananese units and also out-flanked them, surroun-
ding froups of Jenanese soldiers who were then relentlessly
cut down, and at the close of the eperation had endangered
the entire Japanese positicn in the aree.
Private sources
also allered thet the liaison hetween the frent nd head-
unrters had roken down and that local commanders had on
occasion even disrega ded orders frem the ir hisher authorities.
C. tctober 3 the  r Cffice announced th t Jananese casualties
suffered during the four months' o oration had amcunted to
18, o00 but claimed the ene y haa suffered e lual losses.
Private

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.97)
- 19 -
Private estimates were to the effect that the J ranese
casualties were two to three times as many as those announced.
T : announcement by the ar Cffice of the number of
casualties suffered by the Jananese and the re orts of the
effectiveness of the Soviet mechanized forces evidently made
a deep impression and came as a startlin jolt to Jaran.
Between the lines of the comments that anpeared in the press
extolling the valor of the Jananese soldiers in meeting such
strong opposition, there a peared inti ations of considerable
concern over the practical defeet that the I.perial armies
had sustained at the hands of their S.viet "enemy'. The
feeling was present that & new valuation should be placed
on Soviet military streneth, which for the past 25 years
Jaran had been able to more or less safely cone with, and
that stock would have to be talen not only of the power of
this fcrmidahle adversary but of Jaran's own ability to
create effective weapons te neet this new forn of the moat
nodern tyne of mechanized warfare.
2. General Relations
I. the latter nart of the month renorts apreared in
the pres that Juan-S viet boundary demarcation negotiations
weuld be held first in C: ita and later in Harbin,* to begin
the la tter pa. t of Fovember or early Dece ber. T..e press
expresed the hope that these necotiations wculd net be
confined solely to the area in Nomonhan district around which
the firhtinf had o. curred during the summer, but would result
in the demarcation of the boundery for the entire :ongolian
and also Siberian borders, in order that means night be found
for
>
Monthly Political Renort for
entember.

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
- 20 -
for terminating all future conflicts over the exaet location
of the frontiers. It was noted that this aim was also
desired by the Governnent.
Negotiations took pl: ce at Moscow for the setting up
of a co. mission to deal wi th Japanese oil and coal conoes-
sions in Saghalien and also of the economic problems between
the two countries. Some sug esti ons apreared in the press
that Japan and Ru:sia shculd come to a general trade agree-
ment. Cpinions were ventured in certain Japenese sections
during Cctober to the effect that the two countries should
ro a step further than just settling the most pressing pro-
blems and conclude sone sort of a working pclitical arrange-
nent to nut an end to their continuous hostility. It was
argued in this latter connection that if the Soviet Tnion
would five up its assistance to the Chiang Kai-shek rerime
and desist from its hostile attitude toward this country,
Jacan and Russia mirht well be able to get together to their
muturl advantage.
(e) Germany
It was announced cn (ctober 25 that :. Saburo urusu,
at that time the Japanese bassador to Brussels, had been
apcointed to succeed A bassador Lt.-General Firoshi Oshima
as Japanese Imbassador to Terlin. It was announced in the
early part of the m nth that the Foreign Office had with-
drawn Ceneral Cshima frcm Cermany.
Anbassador Kurusu is a
career diplomat and has had a good eal of ex erience with
European affairs. It should be noted that the replacement
of

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
of Ceneral Cshime followed that of ir. Shiratori, former
Ambassador to Italv, and appears to have marked a return
on tre urt of Janan to a more formalized state of iplomatic
relations with Germany and Italy.
(f) Bulgeria
It was announced on October 1s that r. Teruo Hachiya,
Counselor of Embassy at arsaw, ha been apnointed Juran's
first inister to Bulgaria.
(e)
Iran
It was reported in Jaran that on Cctober 1: a treaty of
amity between Japan and Iran had been sined at Teheran.
The
short announcement issued by the Foreign Office in connection
with the conelusion of ti is treaty was to the effect that
it provided for 'perretual peace and friendly r latiens
between the two countries" end defines the treat ment to be
accorded diplomatic and consular representatives. The treat
is tc go into effect upon the exchange of ratifications.
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL C NDIT ONS.
(a)
The Cabinet
1.
Dissension in the Foreirn Cffiee over Proposed
Trade inistry - Advisors for Foreien Cffice
It will be recalled that at the en! of Serteiher * it
8941002
was announced that the Cabinot lanin Foard had reached a
decision to establish a fo in trade ministry in the Covern-
rent and that there hud been published a draft outline of
duties of this proposed ministry. Amory the provisions of
this draft was that calling for the transfer of the functions
of the Co.mercial Pureau of the inistry cf Foreifn Affairs
to
the new ministry, with the proviso, however, that t ose
functions
Honthly Report for Serte ber

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
- 22 -
functions that have only to do with diplomacy were to remain
with the former office. Strong opposition immediately arose
from the officials of the Foreign Office. The Director of
the Commercial Dureau, Mr. Shikeo Jatsushima, tendered his
resirnation, which was followed by those of a majority of
the officials in the inistry. Subseguently the Foreign
Cffice officials set forth their stand in regard to
the
proposed changes in a statement issued on Cctober 5.
This
was to the effect that dinlonatic relations and trade policy
must be integrated and carried out under a unified control.
The rebellious spirit of the staff at the Foreign Ministry
Was not assuaged by the efforts of the Govern ent to ret
them to fall in line with the decision taten, and it was
reported at one time iy the press that most of the commissioned
personnel, amounting to as many ts 3oc members of the Foreign
(ffice and includin nany meab rs of the Ai sions abroad, had
rresented their resignetions. Cn Cctcber 14 however, it
was announced that tha disrute had been amicably settled
throush a comoromise wi th the Government iving wey to
practically all the de ands of the Foreign (frice officials.
In the arranre lent Jeciced upon it was understood that wile
adhering to the cutlines of the nlan epproved by the Cabinet,
the Government wculd ensure full consultaticn between the
Trade cnd Foreign inistry in practice; the Commercial
Bureau of the Forein Cffice would be retained; trade
negotiations we uld be centinued under the jurisdiotion of
the Foreign inister; co mercial attachés would be appointed
from among the officials of the Foreign ofice; and
protection

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
- 23 -
protection of commercial rights and interests, securing of
resources and other matters affecting the nation's foreign
policy, would be included in the so-called diplomatic busi-
ness of uhe Covernnnt.
It was announeed at the beginn'ng of the month that
Admiral Vomura had decided unon a nlan of setting up a sort
of "brain trust" of veteran dinlom ts and other prominent
persons in Japen to act as an advisory and consultation
group to assist the Foreien linistry in formulatin its
policies refardin the nation's foreign affairs. Some of
Ja an's most prominent former diplomats, including Viscount
Ishii, former Foreign Minister, Mr. Debuchi, former Japanese
A bassador to the United States, r. ato, former abe ssader
to France, and others, were to be included in this roun.
The apnoint ment of full time hgricultural and
Fcrestryinister.
Much dissatisraction vas manifested in September and
early Cctober by egricultural and fishing interests in
rerard to Admiral Godo's handling of the combined of fices
of inist r of Comerce and Industry and Africulture and
Forestry. A veritable uproar develoned by th: midlle of
the nonth, both int rests accusin him of slighting the
rural and fishery prcblons in refard to prices, distribution
of agricultural and rarine rroducts in the yen bloc, dis-
tribution of necessary fuel oils, an the insufficioncy of
fertilizor available to the furers. It ves also held that,
at any rate, a man experienced in agricultural and merine
pro' leas w'o cculd aevote full time to them should hold the
cometent

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.97)
- 24 -
competent office in the Government. Finally on Cctober 16
Admiral Godo was relieved of the portfolio of Agricul-ure
and Forestry and Count "adamasa Sakai was aprointed o that
ministry. Admiral codo retained his post as Conmeree cnd
Industry  'inister. Ccunt sakai is a member of tne icuse of
Peers and ha? been President of the Imperial Agricultural
Society for a number of years.
3. Position of the Abe Cabinet
The disturbance in Jcne e :overnmental affairs
attendant unon the Foreign  inistry row, the demands for
an agriculture and forestry minister, an the slow progress
being shown in the settlement of the China incident breutht
forth dissatisfaction with the Abe Governnent. The steadily
rising cost of livin", sta(nation of efforts to bring the
hostilities in Chinn to an end, and increasing cifficulties
in Ja an's interncticnal relations, are all advorse factors
which are unrelieved by censtructive resalts in other fields.
The position, therefcre, of the present Governient is not
one calculated to ins! ire ontimism with regard to any pro-
longed tenure of office. Already speculations ere rife with
regard to the ahility of the Covernrent to go t! reurh the
fort cening session of the Diet ith anvt ing like flying
colors.
(b)
Imrortent tatoments of Govern ent ofricials.
In a foregoing pection there has be en repcrted the
substance of the renarks with resard to Javan's relations
with the United States nade by the Foreign  inister on
October 20 in the course of his first public statement con-
cerning foreign policy. In other sections of thet same
statement

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.96)
- 25 -
statement, Admiral Nomura is also reported to have suid:
that the new order in East Asia would not be a perty nti-
foreign ovement but was to be of such form and substance
as to enable Tast Asia to contribute moso effectivly to ihe
peace and progress of the worid, and that a strony to-
ment suited to the actual ccnditions in China and vorthy of
the confidence of the Chinese peonle vould be e tablishe?:
that the key to relations with Creat Britain ant France ws
their understanding of 'the new order in East Asia' and
treir willingness to cooperate with Japan to establish that
order; that the policy with regard to Russia would be to
etablish normal relctions by amicably settling the tor!or
and other que tions; that the anti-Comintern Pact is o 
cunsidered still as & basic purt of Janan'" policy with
rerard to Cermany and Italy and gcod relations with thos
countries on the basis of that agreement have net been
affected; and that with regard to relations with countries
in the South Seos, Jenan hopes for mutual prosperity and
cooperation but cannot tolerate assistance to Chiang Yai-shek,
Jaran being deenly concerned that the sup ly to Janan of
vital naterials from tiose areas shall not be interrupted.
He is also reported to have steted that he believed the
Euronean war might well be of lon duiation.*
IV. CCURSE CF LEGISIATION.
7
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNHENT
* Enbassy's telegram nc. 53., Cct. 21, 11 p.m.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.96)
- 36 -
>
V:. GO VERN TENT FINANCE.
In issue of Yen 600,000,000 in national bonds was
floated y the Government in Cctober. Bond sales, however,
were markedly unsatisfuctory, it bein reported that only
47.9% of the bonds i3 ued durine the month were assimilated.
894.51
his absorption which has since again increased, was to be
compared with over lo0? durin the first half of this year
and over lo0, for the month of September. The explanation
of this situation appeared to be in the increased absorption
by industrial financinc o: the available supply of funds.
In this connection it is noted that in October capital pay-
nents reached e new high record and plans for the promotion
and expansion of business enternrises involved more money
than in any other previous month except one. (n Cctober 31
some Yen 20,456,000,000 worth of Covernment bonds had been
is ued includin fcrein and comestic issues. This has meant
an increase of Yen 9,876,000,000 since June of 1937 immediately
prior to the outbreek or the Chine affair, and Yen 4,312,000,000
since the beginning of the year.
Anproximately Yen 1,00,000,000
of the total nat onal debt vas renresented by issues in
fcreifn currencies.
It was renorted at the end of the month that the note
issue of the Tank of Japen had increased to the anount of
Yen 2,806,000,000 outstanding at the end of the nonth. This
mark was supposedly above the limit set by law and renresen-
ted a 35" increase in currency circulation ever that of a
year ago. Much of this increase vas accounted for during
October, thrcugh the slurgish trend of currency circulation
particularly

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.98)
- 27 -
particulerly in the rural districts and the upward trend of
oomnodity prices. The press as vell as the stock market
generally looked uron this exnansion in currency in Janan as
a. sign of inflation and it wes nredicted that the ccuntry
wculd be faced with a more and aore prcnounce trend towards
this end by the end of the year.
VI. GENERAL ECCNOMIC AIT. FINANCIAL CCIIDITIONS *
Although during the month under review business in Jaran
was generally good and active, having received considerable
stimulus from the war in Europe, improvement was still being
retarded by losses of exnort markets, low stocks of raw
materials for export oods, advancin base prices abroad of
essential imrorts, higher transnortation costs, delayed deli-
veries cnd serious domestic shortage of coal and of electric
power. Numereus brances of trade were worried over obtain-
ing supplies of necess ry raw ma erials, such as wool from
Australia, cotton from India, scran iron, stael and machinery
from the United states, and potash and rulp from Europe.
Exporters of sundry ecods were uneasy over the disposition
of their products due to so .any closad murkets. Fusiness
and comercial circles were worr led over vhat action the
United states intended to tc'e following the ter ination of
the Co mercial treaty with Ja on, for the latter is now
dependant upon the former for the bulk of her import require-
nents. Still another factor causing grcwing concern in Janan
was the insufficient status of nlant machinery caused by lack
of
Prenared with the assistence of the office of the
Comercial Attaché.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.98)
- 28 -
of materials with which to effect greatly needed repairs and
the apparent decreasing erficiency of Japanese labor in many
industrios, due to the drain by the China incident of the
best laborers in the industries and the long hour: i quired
of the unskilled labor employed.
Much attention was directcd during the month to the
shortage of coal and of electric power in Jap n. ith regard
to the coal situation it is to be noted that production of
this fuel has greatly increased during the past few years,
although during the first three-quarters of the rresent year
the quantity of coal mined had not beon expanded. Howover,
the increase in demand for coal has been sc great that it
has exceeded the increase in supply of that article. Tne
major factor in this increased demand for coal has ccme frem
the electric nower industrizs. Due to the serious drought
conditions that prevail this vear, electric generating plants
have had to turn to a great extent from water power and rely
more and more on coal for power. nesrite the increased con-
sumntion of coal by the power rlants, those plants have still
been unable to meet the needs of industry for electric power
and restrictions have been placed en the consuption of both
electric power and coal to such less urgent enternrises as
cotton, rayon and stapie fibre sninning and weaving, puper,
pulp anu other industries. Jaran normally is self-sufficient
as regards to its supply of coal.
The inister of Commerce
and Industry said in repard to th present situation that it
Wus hoped eventually to turn to North China to make up the
deficiencies that have recently occurred but that it would
hardly

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.97)
-2 -
hardly be possihle to attain that end ror some time due to
Janan's inability quickly to supply North China with mining
materials and tranorortction facilities.
Much complaint alo apreared in Japan cun ne cnonth
in regard to a shorta of fertilizer. It was asserte! that
there was a deficiency of some 400,000 metric tons cf &mmonium
sulphate for which no assured sources of supply were in sight.
Reference wes made in the press during the monih to
Janan's aim of attaining a total shipping tonnage of 7,500, 000
tons. It was renorted that the shinbuilding industry hnd
contracts for some 1,500,00 tons. However, it should be
noted that there is a vast difference between the nurhei o
ships ordered ant those built.*
Jananese shirbuilders were
clamoring for higher prices for vessels, demanding
a rise of some 20% in th price per ton. They claimed thay
an increase was made particularly necessary due to the rise
in scran iron, which had gonc from Yen 90.00 to Yen 140.00
and more per ton. It was ul so understood that there was
under consideration a rise in freicht rates of aprroxinately
20. From the informut ion that was available there appeared
to be no doubt but that Jap nese shipping vas beg inning to
rean a substantial harvest as a result of the Euronean war
nd that this was rarticularly so in regard to earnings of
tramp steamers.
Gilk prices continued to rise during the month and by
the end of October had soared above Yen 1900.00 rer bale. It
was also rerorted that there had been an excellent third
cocoon
*
Recort Shipping in the Ja anese Emrire During Cctober
1939' from the imerican Consulate, Hobe.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
- 30 -
cocoon crop for this year.
It will be recalled that in September the linking of the
yen to the pound was dissolved and the yen pegged to the
United States dollar. T is action was officially confirmed
by the Covernment on Cctober 24 and the yen was maintained
at .23-7/16 selling rate. oney rates were comparatively
steady durine the month. The stock mar'tet showed a general
rise in share values. The standard of living index showed
a gain of 1.8 wholesale prices and 0.4% retail prices over
those prevailing in September. There was, however, a sub-
stantial decline in the percentage of rise of these indioes
for the first time in ma y months.
Forein Trade
Statistics for the foreign trade of Japan for the month
of Cctober were: total exports yen 351,750,000, and total
imnorts yen 247,011,000, showing e favcrable balance of
Yen 104,000, 000. The e fi: ures, ccmnared vith the month of
Ceptember, showed a decrease in exnorts of about ven 34,000,000,
and an increase of im orts of abcut vn 7,000,000. Compared
with the correspondinf months of l9?, hovwever, exoorts were
up by about Yen 76,000,000 and imports by about Yen 62,000,000.*
Th: decrease in exrorts wa: roncrtedly accounted for priaarily
by restrictions that had been nut in force (se  onthly Renort
for September) on exports to the ven bloc including Hong Kong.
Exports to that area fer Jaran proner only decreaseu during
the month by about Vun 3,000, 00 to Yen 15.,000,000. Imports
on the other hand fron the sahe area increased slithtly to
Yen 44,000,000.
Canned
* It should be noted thut these figures and those given in the
previous renorts for this year are for the entire Jaranese
Empire including Yorea, Formosa and the South Sea Islands.

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.94)
-31-
Canned goods, woolen goods, and staple fibre goods
were among the larger itcns that increased in Janan's export.
trade. It is to be noted that Janan had heavily increased
in both September and October exports to the United States.
It was renorted that during these two months exrorts were
about doubled in value over those of the monthly average
that prevailed durin the first eight months of the year,
hile imports correspcndinely showed little change.
VII. ACTIVITIES CF AMERICAN COMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothinf to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES CF FCREIGN CCMTRCIAL IITERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABCR.
Nothing to re-ort.
X.
MISCELLAIEOUS.
Ncthing to report.
UCO
000
000

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.95)
DESPATCHES SENT TO HE DEPARTMENT
OCTOBER 1939
No.
Date
Subject
4158 October 2
First-year examination of Language Officer
Ralph J. Plake.
4159 Octcber 10
Representtions regarding Japanese Inter-
ference in school of Sisters of Providence,
Kaifeng, Honan.
4160 October 3
Submission of stipulation and consent
agreenent and signature cards in connection
with the ofricial bond of r. Donald W.
Lamm.
4161 Cctober 3
Submission of stipulation and consent
agreement and signature cards in connection
with the official bond of !r. Donald W.
Smith.
4162 October 4
New York World's Fair, 1940.
4163
October 9
Representations Concerning Policing of the
Extra-Settlement Roads at Shanghai.
416.4
October 6
Interview with the Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
4165 October 7
Employnent of Temnorary Fireman Akira
Hasegawa.
4l66 October 9
Information Requested by the Civil
Aeronautics Authority.
137 October 9
American Property Losses Resulting from
Sino-Japanese Hostilities, 1977-1939:
Methodist Episcopal Church, South, Shuanglin,
Chekiang.
41.35
Cctober 9
Chinese Maritime Customs, Swatow.
13
Cctober 9
American Property Losses: Southern
Baptist Hision, Laichow, hantung.
170
Cetob:r 9
Univursal L af Tobacco Company of China.
171
Octoher 10
Ancrican 'ronerty Losses: Seizure of mcney
and per oral oloncings of Bishop Thiliupe
Cete, Cautoli Lrrion, Hsuchew, Miargs.
4172 Getob  10
American  roperty sosses: southern
Buntiat is lon, iuichow, Kwantung.
4173 Cetober 3
ubmission of stipulation and consen
agreement and signature cards in c.n ectn
with the official bond of r. Frank
Willians.
4l74 Cctuber 10
American Pronerty Losse; esuatin ?en
Sino-Japanese Fostilities, 1 7-1230.
Evangelical Church Missicn, Lil:
unan

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
4175 October 10
Dissension in the Foreign Office over
Projected Trade Ministry.
4176 October 9
Inflationary Trends and the Progress of
Price Control in Japan.
4177 Cctober 10
Inspecter eneral of the Chinese Maritime
Customs.
4178 October 6
American Attitude toward Poland.
4179
October 10
First-year Examination of Language
Officer J. Dixon Edwards.
4180 October 14
Diplomatic Visa Report.
4181
Cctober 16
Report of Conditions in Japan During
the Month of September 1939.
4182 October 14
American Property Losses: Seizure by
Japanese Military of Oil Stocks Belonging
to the Texas Company (China) Ltd.
4183 October 25
Requirement of Limited Entry Certificates
for Non-immigrant Aliens Landing Tempor-
arily within the United States while their
Vessel is in an American Port: Revision
of Japanese-American Reciprocal Arrange-
ment.
4184 October 18
British Representations Regarding Japanese
Violation of British Interests in Shanghai-
Nanking Railway.
4185 0ctober 18
American Pronerty Losses: Evangelical
Church Mission, Liling, Hunan.
4l86 October 21
Ambassador's Address before the America-
Japan Society on the Subject of Japanese-
American Relations.
4187
October 24
Leave Status of Frank A. Schuler, jr.
4188
Cctober 24
Repairs to Furniture and Fixtures of
Embassy Buildings.
4189
October 26
Cholera Preventive easures at Tsingtao.
4190
October 26
Transmittal of Tublications for the
Library.
4191
Cctcber 28
Diplomatic Visa Report.
4192
October 27
Transmittal of Cartoon from the Kokumin
Shinbun
4193
October 28
Request for Lawn :lowers and Pluibors
Force Cups for the Embassy.
4194
Octcber 30
Address or the Anbassador.
4195
October 28
Map: of Japan for the Library.

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3
No. Date
Sujject
4196 October 30
Refund to Mr. and Mrs. Ernest L. Vest
of Japenese Visa Fees Collected in Error.
4197 October 31
Meteorological Observations in the Pacific
by the 'eather Bureau of the Department
of Agriculture.
4198 October 31
Japanese Ccnsent to the Publication of
Certain Documents in Foreign Relations
of the United States 1925.
4199 October 31
Representations Concerning Currency
Restrictions at Canton.
4200 Cctober 31
Transmitting Photostatic Copy of Document
in Japanese from the Shogun Announcing
Surrender of Governmental Power to the
Emperor.

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
DURING OCTOBER 1939
No.
Date
Subject
498 0ct. 2, 12 noon
Anglo-Japanese relations. Withdrawal
oi armed forces from China; resump-
tion of Tientsin conversations.
499 0ct. 3, 4 p.m.
Disposal of the silver reserve at
Tientsin.
500
Oct. 4, 3 p.m.
Chinese Maritie Customs.
501
Oct. 4, 5 p.m.
Shanghai Extra Settlement Roads.
502
Oct. 5, 1 r.m.
Personnel - Mr. Valenza.
503
Cct. 5, 2 p.m.
Soviet troop movements in Central
Asia.
504
Oct. 5, 5 p.m.
Dissension in the Foreign Office.
505
Oct. 5, 7 p.m.
Press re ort to the effect that
Ja an had denounced the anti-
Comintern Convention.
506 Cct. 6, 3 p.m.
Requisition for funds.
507
Oct. 6, 6 p.m.
Pocsible political arrangement
etween Japan, Germany and the
Soviet Union. Conversation with
Mr. voshizawa.
508
Oct. 7, 3 r.m.
Personnel - Mr. Bruner.
509
Cct. 9, 11 a.m.
P.rsonnel - Miss Glaeser.
510
Oct. 9, 4 r.m.
P rsonnel - Mr. Narita.
511
Oct. 9, 5 p.m.
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company.
512
Oct. 10, noon
Personnel - Miss Beer.
513
Oct. 10, 7 p.m.
Porsonnel - Return of the Ambass: dor.
514
cct. 11, 10 r.m.
Cirhr tables.
515
Oct. 12, 5 r.n.
Rolinquishment of Aaerican Citizen
ship; request of the Foreign ofrice
t'at re: ly be expedited.
516
Cct. 12, 6 p.m.
Cirher tables.

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
~17
Oct. 13, 1 p.m.
Chemical Construction Corporation.
518
Oct. 14, 10 a.m.
E..bassy truck.
519
Cct. 14, 11 a.m.
Relinquishment of American Citizen-
ship.
520 Oct. 14, 6 p.m.
Radio interference by Japanese
Stations.
521
Oct. 14, 7 p.m.
Dissension in the Foreign Office.
522
Oct. 15, noon
isters of Providence mission;
interference with.
523
Oct. 16, 10 a.m.
Radio interference.
524
Oct. 16, 11 a.m.
Address of the Ambassador before
the America-Japan Society.
525
Oct. 16, 3 p.m.
Kulangsu agreement.
526
Oct. 16, 4 p.m.
Couriers to Kobe.
527
Oct. 16, 5 n.m.
Detention of Mr. and Mrs. Tucker.
528
Oct. 16, 5 p.m.
Statement of Premier Abe to the press
on American-Japanese relat'ons.
529
Cct. 18, noon
Cholera preventive measures.
530
Oct. 18, 1 p.m.
Restriction of gas consumption.
531
Oct. 18 2 p.m.
Anti-American agitetion at Chenliu.
532
Oct. 18, 3 p.m.
Return of Mr. Crocker.
533
Cct. 19, 5 p.m.
Detention of Mr. & nd Mrs. Tucker.
534
Oct. 19, 8 p.m.
Address before the America-Japan
Society.
535
Oct. 20, 11 a.m.
Press comment on the address before
the America-Japan Society.
536
Oct. 21, 11 a.m.
Currency restrictions at Canton.
537
Oct. 21, 6 p.m.
Press comment on the address before
the America-Japan Society.
538 0ct. 21, 10 p.m.
Release to the press of the address
before the America-Japan Society.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No.
Date
Subject
●
539 Oct. 21, 11 p.m.
Public statement of Admiral Nomura
●
concerning foreign policy.
540 Oct. 22, noon
Arrival of Mr. Grummon.
541 0ct. 22, 5 p.m.
Press reaction to the address before
the America-Japan Society.
542 0ct. 23, 6 p.m.
Reaction to the address before the
America-Japan Society.
543 Oct. 23, 7 p.m.
Press articles dealing with
Japanese-American relations.
544 0ct. 23, 10 p.m.
Interview with the press of
Yakiichiro Suma, Foreign Office
spokesman.
545 0ct. 24, 11 a.m.
Dissension in the Foreign Office.
546 0ct. 24, 2 p.m.
Personnel - Commercial Attaché's
Office.
547 0ct. 24, 3 n.m.
Linking of the yen to the United
States dollar.
548 0ct. 24, 5 p.m.
Radio interference.
549
Cct. 24, 6 p.m.
Pyrethrum report.
550
Oct. 25, 11 a.m.
Cholera Preventive Measures at
Tsingtao.
551
Oct. 25, noon
Publication of documents.
552
Oct. 25, 1 p.m.
Radio interference.
553
0ct. 25, 4 p.m.
Reply to representations concerning
the search of Consul Roberts.
554 0ct. 25, 5 p.m.
Press comment with regard to the
address before the America-Japan
Society.
555 0ct. 26, 5 p.m.
Article in the press with regard to
Japanese-American relations.
556 0ct. 27, 10 a.m.
Chinese Maritime Customs.
557 0ct. 27, 7 p. m.
Press state ent with regard to
Anglo-J:panese relations.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
No.Date
Subject
558 0ct. 27, 8 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Tucker.
559 Oct. 27, midnight Press euitorial concerning Japanese-
American relations.
560 Oct. 28, 7 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Minister to
the Cabinet regarding Japanese-
American relations; press comment.
561 0ct. 30, 7 p.m.
ress comment in regard to the holding
of conversations between the Foreign
Minister and the Ambassador.
562 0ct. 31, 2 p.m.
Press despatch of Mr. Byas. Japanese-
American relations; forthcoming inter-
view with the Foreign Minister.
563 Oct. 31, 4 n.m.
Policy of the French Government in
China.
564 0ct. 31, 6 p.m.
Conversations in Hoscow regarding the
Nomonhan area.
565 0ct. 31, 8 p.m.
Press comment on the forthcoming
interview between the Foreign
Tinister and the Amba sador.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN
OF THE
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4377
Tokyo, December 28, 1939.
SUBJECT: REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
CHOAL ADVISER
OF NOVEMBER 1939.
OFICE OF THE ADVISER
1940
IEATIONAL ECUNAFFAIRS
FEB 20 1940FAR EAST AFFAIRS
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARIWCHT OF STATE
JA
894,00
.D.
Honorable
SS
Depertuent
εgX
NOISIAIG
No
AND
ONI MID
EPA
With reference to the Department's instruotion No.
894.00 P.R./144
93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit here-
with the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan
for.the month of November 1939.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
American Ambassador
DIVISION OF
SSISTANT SECRETARY
MAR  -1940
OF STATE
losure:
MAR 5=19
uintuplicate to the Department.
FILED
Les to Embassies at Peiping, Chungking, Moscow.
es to Consulates General at Shanghai, Mukden, Harbin,
F
Seoul and Tokyo.
les to Consulates at Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki, Nagoga,
A
Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U. S. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 158
REPORT OF CONDITT NS IN JA AN DURING
THE :ONTH OF NC TE P R 1939.

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
A N D
SUMMARY
I. RELATIONS ITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a)
Ambassador Grew's Conversation with the
Foroign Minister on November 4
1,2
(b)
Forcign Office Replies to Embassy's
Representations
2,3
(c)
Representations Made by the Embassy in
November
3,4
(a)
Gonoral Relations
5,6,7
II.
RELATIONS VITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a)
Great Britain
8,9,10
1.
Reduction of British Forces
in China
8
2.
Discussiors on tho Tientsin
Conccssion uestion
8.9
3.
Reprosentations Made by British
Embassy during Nov.mber
9,10
(b)
China
10,11,12,
13,14
1.
Military Opcrations
10,11,12
2.
Gonorel Rolatiors
12,13,14
(c)
France
14,15
(a)
Soviet Russia
15,16,17,
18,19
1.
Speech of Foroign Commisser
Molotoff on October ?1
15,16,17
2.
Nogotiations for Settlement
of Ponding Issues
17
3.
Goneral Reletions
17,18,19
(0)
India
19,20
(f)
Thailand
20,21
(g)
General International Relations
21
III.
INTERNAL POLITICAL COIDITIONS.
(a)
Appointment of Full-Time Welfarc
and Railway Ministors
22,23
(b)
Trade Ministry
23
(c)
Civil Sorvice Reform
23,24
(a)
Official Price Control
24,25
(0)
Important Statements of Public
Officials
25,26

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
27
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
27,28
VI.
GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.
28,29,
30,31
Tho Rico Situation
31:32
Foreign Trade
32,33
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF ALERICAN COIMERCIAL INTERESTS. 33
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMTERCIAL INTERESTS.
33
IX.
LABOR.
33
x.
MISCELLANEOUS.
33

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RHLATIONS  ITH TIT UITITED STATES.
(a)
Arbassedor Grew's Conversation with the
Foreign Inister on November 4.
On November 4 the Ambassador called by appointnent on the
●
inister for Foreign Affairs and held vith the latter his first
importent conversetion since his return to Japon. Ir. Grew pre-
sented to Admiral lomure three informal papers: one, giving a
chronologicel list of the mbessy's represent. tions to the Japan-
ese Government since the commencement of the present hostilities
in China, showing bot! those vhicl had and those which had not
been answered; enother, giving a series of excerpts fron reno-
rende of sore of his conversations vith revious Japenese for-
eign ministers, sho inz the represent: tions mede by hin end the
essurences rereatedly given thet Amorican riglts end interests
in China vould be resnected; ne the thira, setting forth e gen-
erol description of the demagos and injuries to Anerican rights
and interests in Chine, together ith en expl netion of the ad-
verse effects th t these cctions on the port of the Japanese
euthorities in that country had brcught about on American pub-
lic opinion. After spe king, in the vay solely of presenting
objective fccts, of the deterioration vhich Japanese-Anerican
relations had under one cnd of the pressure of public opinion
in the United States for reasures to be taken against Japan
vhen the Treaty of 19ll will have expired, Ir. Grew said thet
it wes lis opinion that certain fundanentcl differences between
the two countries woul& presumably, sore aay, have to be feced.
It vas first necessery to clerr the tmosphere in the hope for
improvement of rel tions between the tvo countries. 'To that
end there ves need for Japn et once to talie on the one hand
certain negative stens, such as cessation of bonbings, indig-
nities end nore flagrant interferences ith American rignts end
interests

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
interests in China, and on the other hand, steps of a posi-
tive nature hich woula convince the Anerictn Government and
people by concrete eviconce that Japen intends to improve our
reletions. He rentioned the openine of the Yangtze River to
Americon navication as the sort of positive step he had in
mind. Admirel Norura, in reply, stated that there appeared
to be a misunderstending on the part of the United States that
Jepen intends to drive Anericen interests out of China. He
then requested that the United States bear ir nind, in connect-
ion vith the situetion in China:
1. Thrt Jeran is engeged in varfare, on a scale of magni-
tude unprecedented in Jonan's history, the object of hich is
to convert en enti-Tenerese Ching into a Chine sympathetic to
Jepan -- thrt Chine na Jaan must live in good neighborhood
nd prosper in a common vay, ana that if third Povers help
Chine to entagonize Japen, stabilization vill be impossible.
2. That Japanese cuthorities in China are doing their
best under ebnormel and difficult concitions to protect American
property in Chine.* He expressed the hope in this last connect-
ion thet the United States vould give fuller anpreciation to that
fadt.
(b)
Foreign Office Replies to ibassy's Represen-
tetions.
The :bassy received fro: the Foreign Office during Nov-
ember fifty-eicht notes hich were iorw.rded in renly to sixty-
four representations rade to the Jan nese Covernment over a
period of tvo ye?rs, principally in regora to bonbing of Arericen
property in Chine. These renlies cener lly corforied to one
pattern:
Embessy's telegroni no. 562, 0ctober 31, 2 .n.
bessy's telesr. no. 574, Noverber 4, 9 p..
Despatch no. 4218, Novenber 6, 1939.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
pattern:
They contended that every possible precaution ves being tak-
en by the Japanese authorities to protect foreign interests
in China; they expressed regret th t any danase may have oc-
curred to Arericen property, but stated that "if danages were
sustained" in the instances reported, they were accicental,
unfortunate and unavoidable in the prosecution of verfare.
The incidents vere then explained to have resulted for one
or sever 1 of the folloving causes:
1. Insufficient urkings visible fron thc eir.
2. Poor visibility through weather conditions, end
3. Jointlv vith one or tre other first two ccuses,
close proximity of the property to inportsnt nilitary object-
ives or chinese militery emplacements.
A fe, of the cases were srid to have been settled local-
1y through the Jepanese authorities in Cline.*
The Japanese press Cove coe publicity to the efforts
being made by Jepan to settle some of the outstanding so-
called "6oc-odd representations by the United States".
There
'ere cited six cases that had been settled, such as the re-
turn of the University of Shnnghei, et cetera, as examples
of the progress being m de.
(c) Representations Made by the mbassy in Rovember.
The rbassy rr de represontations to the Foreign Office in
Novenber in the follo 'ing instences:
1. Japanese restrictions on and regulation of the pass-
age of Arerican nationals, erployees of Anericen firns end
vehicles owmed by Arericen n tionals and firrs, through the
barriers maintained by the Jenanese cuthorities nrounl the
British
mbassy's telegrem no. 580, Nover:ber 6, 5 p.m.
Embessy's telegrem no. 598, November 13, 6 p.m.
mbossy's telerrem no. 639, November 29, 7 p.n.
64 despetches fron no. 4233 to and inclusive of no. 4348

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
British and French concessions at Tientsin.*
2. Heavy finencial exactions demanded by the Japanese
in connection vit the export end shipment of linen by Aner-
icen firms in Svatov. In this regard it was noted thet Amer-
ican exporters were assessed lerge emounts on shipments from
Svatow, togetlher vith being chrrged exorbitant retes for
freight by a Jarenese concern.**
3. Interference ith the cctivities of Arericn firms
in the egg trede i: the Yengtze velley and the virtu-l mono-
poly in this tr-de forred by an association of Japanege egg
buyers sponsored by l'essrs. itsui, Busssn Vaisha, supported
by the Jepanese authorities througih aiscrimin tion egainst
the Arericen concerns in end exclusion of those concerns fron
the trede.***
4. Jepanese seizure as booty" of, and refusal to re-
turn or make compensation for, tobacco belonging to the Caro-
lina Leaf Tobacco Company et Shanghai.****
During the month of November the Ebassy rede representa-
tions concerning Anerican property losses in China in the
following instences:
1. Christien & Iissionery Alliam e ission, Siushan,
bombing.*****
2. Southern Baptist ission, Laichow.******
(a) General
* Embessy's telegrem no. 604, November 16, 11 a.n.
Despstch no. 4247, November 20, 1939.
**mbassy's telegrem no. 605, November 16, noon.
Despatch no. 4244, November 20, 1939.
***Erbessy's telegrer no. 606, November 16, 1 7.n.
Despεtch no. 4246, November 20, 1939.
****Desp:tch no. 4279, Decerber 2, 1939.
*****Despatch no. 4263, Noverber 30, 1939.
******Desp tch no. 4275, November 30, 1939.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
(a)
General Relations.
The Ambassedor's address delivered before the
America-Jepan Society on October 19 'as the subject of cou-
tinued public discussion throughout Noveber. Comment Was.
in genercl, similer in tore and substence to thct hich ep
peared during the lctter pert of October (Political Report
for Cctober). uch more emphasis, rorever, vas manifested
in the discussion of Americcn-Japanese relations that cen-
tered around r. Grew's address, on the demand that the
United States shoula recognize thet a state of var, in fact,
exists in China. Attention also turned to a lorge extent
to the Nine Pover Treety. In this latter connection the posi-
tion was videly taken thet the Nine Fover Treaty hed become
e iead letter and that it either should be cbolished or tecit
recognition given to the fect that it is inonerative. It
was argued that the United States, in considering the situ-
ation thet had developed in China, should give up its "legal-
istic" attitude over the Nine Pover Treaty ana snould recog-
nize the fact thet treaties ore made to fit circunstances and
that, hen circunst nces n. ve changed, as it is contended
they have actually chenged in the Far Jast, so also must the
treeties be changed to neet the new circumstances.*
On Nevember 8 the spokesmen of the Foreign Office. in an
interview with press correspordents, is reported to have stat-
ed in regard to a reported prediction of Senator Pittman that
Congress would pass en embargo on exports to Janan unless re-
lations improved before the expir tion of the Treety of Con-
merce, that this natter was not new to Jepen and then to have
referred to the werning voiced by Senetor Vandenberg that it
"ould constitute  provocetion to Jepan. The spokesman vent
on
Embassy's telegrer: no. 573, Nover.ber 3, 7 p.m.
Embassy's telegram no. 575, Noverber 4, 10 p.n.
Embassy's telegrem no. 539, Nover.ber 10, 7 p.m.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
on to say that the attitude in Japan was to naintain as
amicable relations as porsible with the United States but
that, if the enbergo talk evolved into a law, there is faar
of its inpeirine relatiors betveen the tvo countries, as
believed it vould be interpreted by the J: panese nation i:
the wey Senator Vandenber precicted it vould.*
The J panese thesis in regurd to the present situction
in Americen-Japenese relations wes developed rlons the fol-
lowing lines:- The United States shoula cpprecicte the sit.
uation Japen is no: in es regcrds the prosecution of her pins
in the Fer Tast. The best thing for the United States to do
in the circumst ncos voul be for it to refrair fror insist-
ing upon end pressing for & settlenent of its differences
vith this country until :fter pecce hed been restored in Chin
and it whould not, in the reantine, take n ottitude of oppos..
ing Japan by pernitting r trestyless state to cone into being.
follored by enbergoes cccinst Japen. If this is not done nd
if "a hostile ettitude" is assumed by the United States, the
result mey be airoctly opposite fror that iutended by the
United States with regard to the protection of Anerican
rishts end interosts in the Fer Jast. At the sane tine, hov-
ever, Jepan must rake it clour to the United tates ti t its
rights in Chine vill be respected ena the Governnent is urged
fron many querters to settle matters vith the United States.
The unfevorable results the terrin tior in itself of the
Cormercisl Treaty vould have on suclh snecific uestions as
the Japenese export and iroort tr: de, shipning, finance, and
nonetery conditions nd the renedies that Jopen hoped to find
to meet the contingency i.. these resnects were cired ot lenf:th
in
 Embassy telegron no. 584, uver ber 3, 7 p.n.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.95)
-7.
in the press, The genera! vic. Was expressed that Japan
could find adequate means to weather the storn but not with-
out experiencing greve difficulties. The attitude taker how.
ever, on the question as a hole wes that Jepan wanted to n
clude a nev treaty with the Trited States, not oriy loccuse c
its effects on cormerciul, finavclal and economic reletions b.t
elso because of its bearings upon Jepan's hope for the maintou-
ance of the traditionel friendship betveon the two countries.
The spokesmen of the Foreign Office, in the sere intervi.
referred to in the foregoing, is reported to have asserted in
regerd to the announcement thet the United tetes wes contem-
pleting greetly enlorging the Anericen Fevy, thet "Japen will
not be cble to remnin indifferent" if thet proposal is  prov-
ed by Corgress.
The ress offected to explain this remurk to the effect
that the United States, "unique in its menner of Portiri hi.
ness', puroortedly had decided to confront Ja an vith  two-
edged threat: economic pressure and nnval night.
As the nonth under review wore on vith no conerese uo-
velopnents occurrinf and with the ternintion of the tresty
gro ing very close an air of deepenin pessinism ond greater
corfusion prevciled in this country over Jenenese-American re-
lations. Fuer vas expressea thet the ituntien vould ceterior-
ate conpletely. It vas held thet Jopan must go forvard vith
her progra: in regerd to the "esteblishent of a nev order in
Jest Asis", but t the sere time there was evifence that much
thought an? enxiety ves being siven to efforts to fin sone
vay to innrove relations vith the Uaited c-ntes, if that couid
in ny vay be done in line vith Jenan's policy vith regard to
Chine.*
Embassy'c telesren no. 60a, Nover.ber 15, 3 p.m.
bassy's telegrem no. 608. Noverber 16, u p..
mbassy' telegram no. 6lo, N verber 12, 9 p.m.
Ebassy's telegram no. 623, Noverber 24, 5 p.m.
5 bassy' telegram no. 632, November 27, 10 ..
bassy's telegram no. 634, Noverber 28, 2 p..

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
II. RELATIOS TTH OTHER COUTRIES.
(a)
Great Britain.
1. Reduction of British Forces in China.
On November 13 the British Arbessedor notified the
: inister for Foreign Affrirs that the British Governnent -
the
tended to reduce tenporerily the nunber of British foroes
that had been meint ined et Tientsin end Teining. In on an.
nouncenent releesed by the British bassy to the press it w
stated that the proposed action had been decired unon for res.
sons of convenience rising out of the conflict in Eurone and
thet thereefter the ritish Covernnent vould rrintain in lort!
Chine only effectives necessary to protect pronerty end to
meintein order.*
The announcement "as commented upon in the Ja rnese press
vith sone satisf ction. The reason given by the British Gov-
ernment for the mecsure as accepted as the primary Briti sh
considerction in the stter, but the press also affected to
relate the reduction of the troops "ith the "friendly advice"
given by the Japenese Governnent to the British Government
on Sentember 5**
I. to impdy that it ves in the neture of a
diplonatic gesture, to eccord  ith the Jepanese vishes thet
belligerent forces be vithdrcin fro C..ina. The hope vas also
exnressed in the ress tht if this move in fact vas indicative
of other Powers' trust in Jenan in regerd to J ponese sofe-
guerding of their rights end interests in North C-ins that
those Povers will come to place the some relierce vith regard
to the rest of Cnina. Ai any rate es regards Great Britain,
this first step night be expected to initiate a lessening of
tension in Anglo-Japanese reletions.***
2. Discussions on the Tientsin Concession uestion.
Several
Eribassy's telegrar no. 590, Noverber 10, 8 p.n.
**Political Report for Sentember.
***Embessy's telegran no. 601, November 14, 7 p,.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.96)
-9..
Several conversations were held curing the nonth urder
review between the British Aibessador end the Vice inist
for Foreign Affeirs ith regard to the Chinese silver held
in the Eritish banks at Tientsin. This issue apparontly ccn-
stituted the knottiest proble: in the settle ent of 
Tientsin question. The Britist bad put forward a suecesion
that the silver in question be vsed for relief purposes ir
the Yorth China srea in connection vith the severe Crcught
end flood conditions thet had occurred there during lost su-
ner end eerly autunn. cone progress, it ves understood, lhes
been made tovards this end.* In correnting unon a general
settlement of cffairs between Cret Britrin cnd Japan the
press alleged that the British Ambessador vas contending
in his negotietions with the Foreign Office thet issues as
e hole between Grect Britcin end Japen shoulc be adjusted
viti. reference to those betveen Janan and the United St.es
end other third Povers since they stood on cormon crounds.
3. Represent tions Made by British Enbassy Buring the
I'onth under Review.
The British Mbassy r&de representctions to the Foreign
Office during Novenber:
In regard to the attack and forcing don of the Imperial
Airvays' civil aircroft "pardcnus" by Japanese airplenes at
aichou Island, South China, on Novenber 8.**
In regard to Jepanese interference vith comnerce of Brit-
ish irms in the egg trede in China end the cttempt of the
itsui, Bussen Yaisho to estcblish  nonopoly in that trede.***
4. British Blockade on Cermon Exnorts.
It ves announced by the spokesnen of the Foreign office
on 'over ber 26 that the Jananese Arbessador to Great Prit-in
hed
Embassy's telegrem no. 591, Iover ber 11, 2 .m.
Imbessy's tele r: no. 603, November 15, 5 n.m.
Ibassy's telegran no. 627, Hoverber 27, 4 p.n.
**mbessy's telegran no. 596, Noverber 13, 10 e.m.
bassy's telecrar. no. 637, Iover.ber 29, 3 p.m.
Despatch no. 4342, Decenber 18, 1939
***Desnatch no. 4246, Novenber 20, 1333.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
hed been instructeu to lodge a vigorous protest to the Brit-
ish Goverrment egcinst the British order to seize at sea all
exports fron Gernany. The spokes an vas reported to have
stated thet this action on the  rt of Gret 3ritain not
oniy exceeded the rirhts of e belligerent unuer international
law but also violsted an understairg that t! British
Covernnent had mrde with the Japanese Governnent not to in-
terfere in any y vith the exnort tion of Gerrion coods. He
added that Japan vas vitally interested in the imortction
fron Ger eny of imoortent articles and could not acquiesce in
the stopping of its tr de ith that country. Te stated in
conclusion thet in cese the vitl interests of Jenan should
be ffected by the ronosed Britis! measure, Tepan voula be
comrelled to trke nunronrirte counten me sures.
(b) Chinc.
1. Vilitery Oper tions.*
On Povenber 15 the Jenanese opered large-scale opera-
tions in the Tongking By aree in
ostern Yiantung.
A lena-
193.94
ing vas made gainst c perently negligible chinese resistance
near Pekhoi.
The ton of Yunchow on Yanchov Bay Was soon
captured.
Thereafter, a rarch vas sterted inlana, ecross
the tip of  angtung ena throug! a nountain range or the
Yiantung-Yvangsi border to Hanning in Yvangsi and on Novenber
24, nine days after the oper tions were begun, that city was
centured.
The object of this canpaim vas prinarily that of striking
at the supnlv routes fron the outside vorld to interior China.
'ith the investrent of makhoi the blockade of the Clina Coast
'as essentinlly cormleted. But of for reuter sianificence,
by the seizure o? Janning one of the nost inmortant sunply
routes
*Pren red ith the ssist nee of the orfice of the  ilitary
Att=ché.

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.96)
-11-
routes to the interior of Southvest China wes cut. fter
the fsll of Canton in the autun of 1938, this route and
those from Hanoi to Yunnan-fu ana Burne to Yunnan-fu had be-
core the nain crteries of comr unic tion of Chine vitr the
outside vorld. A votor high ay extended fron the Indoohina
border throug: Nen ing to the interior of Chino.
Over this
high ay e considereble nount of vor meterial and equipment
reportedly had been entering Chins. loreover, it is under-
stood a reilvay betveen Nenuing and the border of Indochine
vas at the tire nenring completion.
There vere, however, politicl consider tions ettend-
ent upon the execution of these oper tions. One vas, it is
reported, the intent of the Japenese ar.y to present sone
new tancible results to the Jananese people after the inde-
cisive char cter of the recent cenpaigns cround Changsha and
estern Hupeh, as ell as to countercct the unfavorable im-
pression left vith the Chinese nasses as regsrds the Japanere
nilit@ry strength.
Others vere, as reported by the press, to
strike & blo, et 'angsi Province  it the hope of breaking
com that Province's stro support of the Chicng Yei-shek
regire, to attack Chin: in c new section of tl.e country  ith
the hone of demagirg furthe the prestige and strength of
the Notionnl coverrment b, der o strating to the C irese that
thet Cuvernrent s un ble to check t eny pl ce Joonese
attecks on Chine.
Tis last co sider tion  ar anperently
directed prinerily to irpress the poouloti n of Yunnan Prov-
irce, hich it was reoorted ir Jop.n hed been anifestira dis-
setisf ction ith the Chungking coverhment.
Vury little Was reported of military actions in any other
crea in C. ine. ith the excention of sporadic Jepanese attacks
gainst guerrilla bands n
romnents of c rese reguler troops
in

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
in end around the elrecdy occupied arecs, the period
wes a very quiet one. Bombing operations were also
conducted on a lirited scale.
2. General Relations.
Te esteblishment of the nev centrel regine in Clina,
previously predicted to take place in Novenber, did not
meterialize during the month. .en it vould eventuelly
cone into beiny  os not arein publicly foreccest. It ap-
neared fron the continued discussions th t 'ere carried
on during the morth thet not only the question of timing
the estcblishnent of the  'an: Ching-wei rerine but as
vell natters of t e person el of the Covernnent, of its
financin, of the degree of cuthority it would have and
of the extent and scope of its jurisdiction -- particu-
lorly es relating to North China :nú Inner Iongolia --
had not been coapletely settled.*
Reference is rade in
this connection to the editorial ppeering in 'ang Ching-
vei's press organ, the Chung Hua Sih Pao on November 23
in which it vas sserted the ney Government in China must
be independent end utononous.**
Thet editorial was re-
ported in Japen but no comment mode upon it.
In e press intorviev on Noverber 21, the Prine in-
ister outlined t sone len th vorious aspects of Japan's
future rel tions vith the pronosed nev re ine in China,
and he snic tht the coverhment expected to follow in
settling the Chine "i: cilent" the princinles leid dom by
Prirce "onoe in the letter's staterent of Decenber 22,
1938. ue scid he believed that the ne regire vould even-
tually ssirilate the Chungking Government, thus obviating
any
* mbassy's telegrar: no. 567, November 1, 7 p..
**Shanghai's telegran no. 1033, Jovenber 24, 5 p.m.

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.97)
-15-
any need for Japen to heve eny future deelings with the
latter. He reiterated the Japanese contention that Noith
China cnd Inner ongolia should be a special zone for Jauan.
both politicclly end econonicelly, and that Japan would
show r.ore concern over those areas than over any other part
of China. He seid th t Janan probsbly would conc lude an
anti-Conintern pcct vith reborn China along the lines of
the Jcnanese-Germen-Italian enti-Conintern accord, and that
Japan vould, in all probability, keep troops in China as
long as that pact was in force.
A further significant stetenent vas made by the Jini-
ster of "rr end another by the Prime !irister during the
month in regerd to Jancnese relations with Chine. In a
press interviev on Noverber 10 the Iinister of ar stated,
in part, that the conclusion must not be crem that the
Chine Affcir vill automaticelly be settled vith
the
estab-
lishnent of the new re ime. In regart to the same topic,
the Prime inister, curing an address he rade at Osaka on
November 25, is reported to have stated the t even after
the hostilities are concluded it may take "three, five or
ten years to settle the Chinn incident".
He further
emphasized that it ill be no eesy natter to bring it to
a nominal close, to se: nothing of the gigontic reconstruc-
tion task hich must be undertaken afterwerds, inasmuch as
the Chungking Goveriient still has very 1: rge reguler forces
in the field, in addition to nillions of onti-Jupanese
guerrilles lurking throughout China "ho are haressing
the Jenanese forces at every opportunity.*
The press noted that the rerrks of the 'r inister
had disproved & miscorc ention held by e l'rge section of
opinion
*  bessy's telegrer: no. 629, Nover ber 27, 5 p.n.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
opinion in Jepan that, with the establishnent of the
new regine, the "incident" vould have been settled.
Fassinisn vas noted in other comments regarding the Prime
'i ister' precictio. of the length of time still antici-
pated beforo a final rcunding-up of the Arfair could be
expected
At the eni of the nonth it vas ennounced th t, ef-
fective Deceriber 1, J ..anese army notes vould be the sole
J:penese currency in circuletion in Central Clina and
thet the B i of Japan notes must be exchaneed into ermy
notes and that the forner vould thereefter be vitherawn
fron circulation in China.
Te object of this regulation
ves undoubtedly directed at conbatting the svecul tion in
yen, vith its deleterious effects on Jenenese currency,
that had been coing on in Chins.
(c)
France.
At the some time th' t it "as announced that the
British forces in Torth China vould be reduced in number,
notice ns rele sed of the recuction of French forces in
that aree.*
There anpearei in the Jananese press et the end of
the monti. vurious reports relctis to the question out-
stenaing for sone tine beteen Japan end Fronce
co cern-
inr the tronsport tion throu h French Indochine of
sup-
plies destined for the Chian Kai-shek Government.
It
vill be rec lled th:t on several previous occasions the
Jepanese Government made renresent. tions to the French Gov-
ernment requestin thet εrns end enmunition for china be
prolhibited fron passage throuch the French colony.
on
November 3o, the Worein inister presented to the Trench
Ambassndor
Desp tch no. 4237, loverber 16, 1339.

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.96)
-15-
Ambassador in Tokyo. a strong note dealing vith this mat-
ter and elso vith Japen's econonic reletions vith French
nossessions in the Orient an the South Cens. It wes
steted in this note thst restoration of good relstions be-
treen the two countries recuired th t Frnce cease support-
ing the Covernment of Chian? Kai-she!:, econt a benevolent
attitude tousrds Janan in the letter's corilict ith China, en.
renove v rious econonic barriers renged g inst Japan in the
French territories in the Orient. 'ith respect to the first
corsideration, the note requested that not only should the
trensit through French Indochina of arms end anvunition --
the passage of hich the French euthorities insisted they hed
already stopped -- be prohibited, but that the passage be
forbidden of ali articles tich could serve to naintain and
strengthen the Chinese Governient. Tith respect to the sec-
ond consideretion, it es requested that the restrictive
me-sures taken by the uthoritins of French Indochina in re-
gard to Japenese soods, such es the inposition of very high
duties, quotas, et cetere, be reoved, enc that the ettitude
of the ruthorities i French Incochine, i" Ne! Celedoria,
end in other rench territories, of hinderin" the exmorts
of roducts to Jonan, pl cing obstacles in the vey of the
entry of Jeppnose into t' ore recions, end liniting the ex-
ploitation of comerciel enterpriso! by the J anese, et
cetere, be ch nced to one of accorai  J ncn facilities and
ctive su port in the territories entioned.*
(a) Soviet Russia.
The speech of Foreicn Commissor : olotoff, delivered at
741.94
TOSCOW
Embassy's despetch no. 435o, Decer ber 20, 1939.
**mmbassy's telegra. no. 571, November 4, 3 p.n.

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
"osco before the Suprere Soviet on October 3l, Ves given
full publicity nd was videly discussed in Janan. The
press  as ct first generally skeptical about the Soviet's
offer of friendship en the possibility of a general in-
proverent of relotions betcen the two countries, end ceu-
tioned inst acceptin Soviet overtures in viev of the
cnticip tion of their having little tengible value to this
country.
At the same time, hovever, the speech vas lookel
upon as a "constructive gesture" on the p rt of Russia and
the opinion vas expressed to the effect thet, although
Jepan's netional polity was irreconcilable vith Soviet
Russia's ideology and Jepan's opposition to Corrunism must
ever be naintai:ed, nevertheless, if the gesture were to be
follored by concrete perforr.ences on the part of Russia,
Jenan should not fail to seize the opportunity to adjust
its rel: tions  ith th:t country. T e perforrances were
specified as the settlenent or the boundory ond fishing
questions and the oil end coal corcession problerns in Soviet
ceghalien nd, above ell clse, the discontinurnce of Soviet
essist: nce to China in its resist nce guinst Ja en.
Special interest us t ken by the covernment end finan-
cicl-cornerci-l interests in 'r. : olotoff's suggestion tht
negotiations be instituted for c trade agreement between
the tvo countries, ruch benefit to Janrn being expected fron
the conclusion of an rrangement for the revival of trede be-
treen the two countries. In this connection it was stated
that Jaoan ould expect to import fron kussia such necessary
commodities for ier nati nal econony as coel, iron, petroleun,
lurber, plctinu and asbestos, end could export in exchanse
therefor

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.96)
-17-
therefor ships, shipping equipment, foodstuffs, green
tes, cenent, leothe end textiles. The highest point
resached in Jananese-Soviet trede in the p: st yeors s
that for 1936 hen it only cmounted to so e Yen 50,000.C0u
ell told. Since then it its stecdily declined until the
present year hen it has drcpped to alrost the vanish.ing
point.
2. 'ecotiations for Settlement of Pending Issues.*
The nev Soviet Ambassador to Japen, Ir. Constantin
Smetanin, arrived in Tokyo et the beginning of lovenber
and held several conversations durin the no th vith the
inister Tor Foreign Affairs. It vas reported thet the
fisheryend border delimit. tion cuestions vere discusred.
In regera to the forrer question, it is understood that
the Japanese Governnent proposed that a permanent fishery
trecty be concluded to replece the present terporory agree-
rent, but no creement i: this reg rd has been re ched.
All errangements reportedlv hed been cor leted by the end
of the montn for the onenin? t Chite of the conference on
the delirit tion of the border. bnloratory negoti tions
vere understoo to Lave t ken lace Loth ,t Tokyo and at
Losco, in reg rd to a trnde agreement and general inprove-
ment of Soviet-Japanese rel tions, but both sides vere
held to be a iting the toking of the initi tive by the
other of definite steps tovards these ends.
3. General Relations.
Attendant upon Ir. : olotoff's speech cad upon remerks
rde b. the Soviet Naval Attaché, Captain Kovalef,**there
ves brought into full relief in Japan during Noveiber
the
* Embassy's telerrm no. 607, Noverber 16, 6 p.n.
Embassy's telesren no. 61c, Noverber 17, 2 p.n.
Ibassy's telegra. no. 61?, November 18, noon.
E b ssy's telegrer no. 622, November 24, noon.
**mrbassy's telegrer. no. 585, Novenber 9, 1 p.n.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.95)
-18-
the question of concluding soe sort of special political
arrangerent between Japan and the Soviet Union. A denand
which begen to take forr: in October was finally mad: in
certcin sections of Japan for en associction of Japan uitr
Russia through cither a nor-aggression pet  it.  i
or a definitive clliance vith both Russit and cernany.
The motivating factor behiio this movement vrs found in
the feeline tht regardless of any other considerations,
Jenan should use any reans st its disposel to bring en
early settlenent to the Chine "incident" ane thet, us a
result of cnd in order to neet the increcsiig ressure an
oppositior fror: the United States nd Gre: t 3ritein to
Jepan's Chin: cannaign, this country should turn to Fussi
nd put in the b: ckground her cifferences vith thas coun.
try. It  as drngerous for Jarer, it was crgued, tc be
entirely isolated fion the rest of the orld and she
should, therefore, reliove h rself fro: tie Russian threat,
The more n:tionalistie  radical ele ents in Japan hold-
ing to this thesis, imcludi. r. Toshio Shiratori, forner
Ambessador to Rone, un the rmy press organ stated that,
by tying un vith Russin J: pan vould be ble to fac what
ves considered a bluff ol. the part of the nited States to
boycott Jenan, nd, moreover, inasnuch as it as understood
thet Gre: t Britair cna the United t tes vould not relish
a soviet-Jarr rese rapnrochement, for thet re son alone
Japen shouli hoste to conclude n cgreerent ith the
Foviet Union. It vrs even argued thet Jaoan should throw
its surnort o. the side of Russir :ne cermeny, for the
reasors thot, if Germany, assisted by Russia, were not suc-
cessful in defeating Gret Britri. nd Fr nce in the
European

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.96)
-19-
European war and if the latter two countries energed
victorious fror. that conflict, the democratic Povers
vould then turn upon Japan end, in its present weakened
condition, be able to reduce it to a thirc class Porer.
On the other hand, if Cre t Britein and Tr nce vere van-
quished, Jenen reed heve no fe:rs of successfully cerry-
ing out her nims in Eest Asie
By and 1 rge, ho ever, the majority of Japanese opin-
ion still continued to be oposed to any prograr: enviseging
a rapprochement vith Soviet Russia. It vas felt that, by
tying up vith that country, Japan would only be falling
into a trap prepared by it for its oun ends; that Russia
vould onl" use Japan as a tool in combatting the denocracies.
which might vell end in serious danage to Japan and the en-
hencement of the pover and strength of goviet Russie, ag-
sinst vhich country Japan must renain fundamentally hostile.
On November 17, vhen  uestioned regarding Janen's
reported chenge of attitude toierds Soviet Tussie, the
spokesmon of the Foreign office replied thot Janen merely
vanted to have good relctions viti. all countries and thet,
vith the iroroved atnosphere betveen Janrn and Tussia
brou-ht  bout by the conclusion of the 'oronhen fighting,
? better atnosphere hod resulted.
Janrn, he stated, uns
lookin: forverd to the settlement, if possible, of nend-
ing issues between the two countries.
(e)
Indie.
There were opened on 'over.ber 1o t Calcutte negotic-
tions for the revision of the Indo-Ja anese co ercial trec-
ty.
. Reports apnearing in Japan at the end of the mo th were
to the effect that the ∞ nference haa becone staler.ated, par-
ticulerly over the trode in cott n. It  as understood thst
Japen

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
Japan had requestod a reduction of the Indian impcrt duty or.
cotton cloth, an incroaso in the import guota for high grad
cotton cloth, and a change in the rato of the cotton sicth.
raw cotton barter arrangements. Jepan compieined of ch x
isting 5o% import duty on Japanese cotton toxtilos as beins
inordinately high, especially in comparison with tho most-
favored rate on British goods which had been lowored tc nere-
ly 15%, and also that the amount of cotton which Japan could
sell to India undor the quota basis was much too smail. On
tho other hand, India, it was reported, was insisting upon an
increase in the import duty and a decrease of the quota on
high grade cotton, and that Japan should buy more raw cotton
from it. In the latter connection, it was stated that Japem-
ose imports of raw cotton had dropped from over 2,000.c00
bales in 1937 to over 1,000,000 lales* for the present yua
and thet Japan, on the other hand, was contiruing its Jarg~
oxports of cotton cloth in India.**
(f) Thailand (Siar)
Thero was signed at Bangkok on Novonber 3c n agro-
ment between Japan and Thailand (Siam) for the etaolisr.
ment on a reciprocal basis of an airplane servicc otw on
Japan and Thailand, the air line to run between Toky: vin
Formosa and Indochina, and Bangkok. Jepan had prcviously
obtained pormission from the French Government to fly ovor
Indochina and to stop at Haroi ur route.
The significence
of this agreement was considerea to bo twofcld
In the
first place, it becamo the first intcrnational air line
conncction between Jepan and a rorcign country outside the
Yen bloc and it linkod Tokyo with the great notwork 
international air servicus which most at Bangkok, putting
Tokyo
* Indian balesof 400 pounds.
**Report, "Considerations Affecting the Current Indo-Jepune
Trede Negotietions", from American Consulate,Osaka,12/16/39.

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.93)
-21-
Tokyo only to days eway by air from tht connection.
In the secona pl-ce, it cs the first reciprocel arree-
ment entered into b. Joprn, Wierein in exchange for the
right to est blish an aeri 1 service to s foreign coun-
try Japrn hnd sive. the same riht for the air service
of thrt country to coe to T rn.
(3)
Generel Interntional Relrtions.
The Prine : inister, in his press intervie" of Nover-
ber ?l, is reported to i ve steted th.t Jepen s still
deter. ied to maint in its olicy of non-involvement in
the Euronecn r. He Ws also quoted as decl ring tlet
Japan v's not tekiny under consider tion cny poliey et
the tine bei for eithor a north ra or a southvard ad-
v'nce, nor wes it eng ec in eny diplonatic noves as re-
s rds the strengtleri  ci tae Jap n-Gemany-Italy exis".
III. IIT FIAL

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.94)
-22-
III. INTERNAL POLITICA COMITICUS.
(e)
Anpointnent of Full-Tine "elfare end
ReilveyInisters.
At the end of the north it "as announced that Ir.
Wiyoshi Akit end :r. Hicejiro ragate hcd been anpointed
respectively :s elfare and Rail ay :inisters. The port-
folio of the elfare : inistr, had been held up to that
894.002
time concurrently vith thet of the ! inistry of Home Af-
fairs by : r. Nayoshi Ohara, and that of the Railway Tini-
stry by :r. Ryutero Magei. Tr. Akita is e veteran party
politicier and is affili ted vith the Seiyukai. He was
not, hovever, involved i the dissention that had attend-
ed the splitting-up of the party into two fections end
apperently for this recson vas considered to be acceptable
to the pcrty as a hole as its represent tive ir the gov-
ernnent. !r. lagats has been proninent ir public life in
Janen for any 'ecrf. He hes held e nunber of positions
in the civil rervice, h'& been avor of molvo for to
terrs one under tho irota C biret, i ister for Oversecs
Affairs.
. We is also vell kno n in educcti nal circles and
t the tine of his onointnent s presi ent of one of the
universities.
These upoointrent reoresented the fial 'epcrture of
the Abe Coverient fro. its nolicy, ennounceu at its lncen-
tion of retaining cs : s all Cubi et. The Prenier explained
th t the ppointment of the two ney. inisters vould achieve
grester collaboration by the people itl the Covernnent.
There ues unaoubtedly a further notive in associ: ting the
parties vith the Governent, end thut ves to forestall, if
pogsible, attecks iro. the politiciens tht ere expected
+.C

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.94)
-23-
to arise in the coming session of the Jiet.
In the negoti: tions th't vere cerriel on befoco the
tvo Iinisters vere selected, the Prerier o: fered  cabi-
0
net cff ce to : r. Chuji : cchiar, President of the Iinseito
perty. Ir.  echid, desnite freguent entreaties, deter-
minedly refused to join the Governnent.  is excuso in not
coing so ves thot he felt he coulu better serve the coun-
try by remaining outside of the Cabiret and cooperating
vith it as e perty legder. His refusal to join the Cabinct
vas held by the press to be a defi ite setback to the
Abe c-binet, further erphasizing its weakress end the small
confidence thet the politicil perties ani the ntion as 8
whole have in it.
(b) Trade inistry.
It will be rec: lled thot en anrounccment rs rcde in
the latter prt of fent nber to the effect th:t a Trade
Vinistry vould shortly be est-blished. Renorts appesred
durin~ the nonth uncer revie to the etfect thet so nuch
oppositien bad beer brourht fortr r inst the esteblish-
ment of this ministry fror. the v: ricus o ficiels of the
Covernment th t it e pe red likely that the inistry vould
not be established for soe time to co:e.
(c) Civil cervice Refor:.
Iuch consideretion apparently vas iven during the
month to the nodification of the civil service syste. i
T:nan. Under tle provisions of the civil service security
act, hich wes enacted in l9sl, it vas provicec that Gev-
ernnent officials could not be dismissed fro: office ith-
out good cause. idesoresd feelinc had been menifested in
1.

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
the country ageinst the operation of this act which, it
was felt, was securing tho tenure of office of many in-
officient and purely burcaucratic officials, and the do-
mand hau keon heord fron many sides that a clearing of
"dead wood" should be undertalton in order that the Govern-
ment might secure the services of more ablo and qualified
mon.
To do this it would bo nocossary to chango the civil
sorvico lew. In his intorview on November 2l the Prime
Minister is reportod as stating that the Govornmont had
about completed its study for the change of the systom by
which the secured status of covernmont officials would be
shortly ebolished. However, the strong opposition to any
change emanating fron the Governmont buroaus, and also
from the Privy Council, still had to bo ovorcome, and by
tho cnd of Novembor no dofinite action in the metter hed
boun taken.
(a)
Official Price Centrol.
In several statonents made by the Hinister of Connerce
and Industry, Admiral Godo was ruported to have said
that the policy of fixing prices, the one based sololy on
world price levels, had been changed and that, theroefter,
the Government would scuk to formulato "appropriato prices".
Ho cxplainod thst the Governmont's commodity price measures
had boon initially draftud and untorced on the basis of in-
ternational lovels prevailing boforo the outbreak of the
Europcun war with the aim of bringing Japanese prices down
to thoso lovols. He said that by the opening of the Europ-
can hostilities avorage Japanese prices had risen by some
20% and average intornational prices had dropped by about
10

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.96)
-25-
lo% since the beginning of the China Affair. The wer
in Turope had brought international rices brc! up to,
end in sone cases above, Jrpanese price indices, and,
therefore, there vould be no need to depress prices in
Jepen. In seeking to fornulate "cnpropri te prices",
the Government did tot air. to t ndon altogether the lou
orice policy but hoped r ther to put the price structure
in Jepen in better b&lance due to the change i: conditions.
The plan called for the adjustment of prices in Japan to
fit the price structure both t home and ebroad. The Hini-
ter explcined that vorld prices vould be particulurly
considered in regard to fixing the levels for inported
conrodities and th:t specia! standerds voula be set up
for goods needed i the Covernnent's inaustrial expansion
proren and for aaily necessities.
The ratter of rices in Jeprn lhad f: llen into a
state of consider ble confusion curing "ovember, end al-
though there vere no sins of the  tter etting out of
hand,  ary recdjustnento anmarently voulr  ve to be node.
Prices, des ite the cover ment's efforts to keep then
doun, cortinued to rise. The official prices of rice, to-
bacco, silk textiles end cone other ninor iteris were raised.
There vs so e evesio of the rice lavs through v rious de-
vices resorted to by cert in ele ents of the people. Iuch
complaint vas also he rd thet comodities vere being vith-
held fror the rrret in cnticipation or further increases
i. prices at a 1-ter d:te.
(e)
Inport nt Staten nts of
Public Officials.
There i ve bee: noted in previous sections of this
report

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.96)
-26-
report the renarks made by the Prine inister on Nov-
ember 1 and Noveber 25, and elso a comment rade by the
I'inister of 'ar on J'ovember ll in regerd to the settle-
rent of the Chine "incident".
Gener:l i ta is renorted in the course of his inter-
view on November 1l to heve made further renerks concern-
ing Japan's military policy, substentially es follows:
The Army, desmite the meny difriculties hich still ex-
ist in the way of the disposel of the Chine incident",
vould assune full responsibibity tovards thct end; it
wes irperative for Jopan to replenish its armanents as
quickly ns possible; the mechanization of the Army must
be pushed ahead as fast ns possible, particularly in view
of the nunericul end qualitative strength of "our poten-
tial rival"; anc"Japan's defencive centre has been trans-
ferred to the continent".
IV.COTTTC

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.96)
-27-
IV. COURT CF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V.
GOVERINN EIT PITANCE.
An iscue of notional bonds in the amount of Yen
400,000,O00 wes flo ted by the Covernment in Noveiber.
The reported absorption of the bonds issued improved
894.51
sonewhat during the nonth over that duri.. October, anount-
ing to 62% of the bonds issued.
This figure, hovever,
still represented a decrease in the assimilation of bonds
as compared with the figures for the first half of the
yeer. It vas held thet the prevailinf hecvy derand for
funds by industry and agriculture continued lergely to
account for the unsetisfrctorw cbsorption of national
bonds. Te ever-groviu need for gueranteeing adequete
supmlies of funds to industri 1 corpor tions for the in-
crerse of their productive ccnecity for crmaments and goods
for exports, it s understoof, haa so ffected the supply
of funds for covernnent finonce th t t the end of the
month a croft plan ves repsred oy the Finence inistry to
limit the scope of b nking ecconmodstions to those corpora-
tions.
 The free financing linit for nev cenitel issues of
the corpor: tions vas reduced by a thira to a fourth of the
lirits th-t had been previously set -- pernittin? the high-
est cless of co.cerns only Yen 500,c00 and the 1ovest class
Yen l0c,co0 for nev cspitel issues,
It vas renorted at the end of the onth that the note
issue of the Bank of Japan had renched the amount of Yen
2,950,000,000.
This amount represented en
increase of Yen
250,000,000

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.95)
4
-28-
250,c00,000 over that outstending at the end of October
and exceeded the legal linit by Yen 245,000,c00. in
seversl addresses rade by the Finance inister ouring
the letter part of the nonth under reviev. ir. Aoki is
reported to lave cssured the country th t the a ica's
economy ves entirely sound nd that. Itouai te e
ese financial vorla ves passing throuch a crisi. unrarallel
ed in its history, nevertheless it  as well holdirg its
own. He scid there vere sone unfevor:ble f ctors, cuch
es a cecrease in savings and an increase in the currency
issued but that these conditins haa not assured serious
proportions. Jepan's international trede balance, he
declared, had irproved bv an incresse of 33 in exports
anc only en 11 rise in inports over that of 1938. Yen
12,ccc, ooo,coo, he steted, hed alreedy been spent in the
Chine "ircident", of hich anouht 901 hed been reised
b the covernnent by borroving. T e entire anount wes
obtrined ithi. the country itseli ne not a sir le sen
"es rised throuch foreir loans.
VI. GETERAL ECG OI IO AD FIVANCIAL CO DITIOHS.*
Generl business transactions during 'ovenber con-
tined so encor pacsed by official restrictions end con-
trol that current : evelonnents, either co.estic or for-
eign, influenced only inairectly Japanese busi ess as
a vhole. For this re so, vell-defined business trenus
vere luckin. Hovever, this condition did not prohibit
irportent events end t ndencles having psychological
recctions
Prepred with the assistance of the office of the
Coniercial Attaché.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.97)
-29-
reactions in the country. Sentirent vas sorewhet en-
coursged by the upvard movement in agricultural prices,
especielly for ray silk, by hopes for continued improve-
nent in foreign trede through the recedins prospects of
pe:ce in Europe, b loc lly current runors of the proba-
bility of an irprovement of Japen's relations vith Great
Britein and possibly vith the United States, bv the fore-
casting in the press of better Japanese-Coviet relations,
and, above all, by the continued monthly increcse in ex-
ports. Adverse conditions whicl. tended to offset these
favorable developments 'ere nrinarily enxiety over Janan's
trede relctions vitl the United States after exniration
of the conrercirl treaty on Jenurry 6, 1940, and also
fears of inflation, ranidly increesing cormodity prices
nd living costs, additional ano more stringent econonic
col.trol nessurcs, lack of stimulus fron the uronean war
activities, nountin vorld prices of rsteriels that had
to be inported, &nd the continued unsatisf ctory conai-
tions as regards the supply oi coal ond electric pover.
Comodity prices shoved little respect for official
regulations, as their upard novement continued unabated
during the month. A discussion is undertaken ir the follow-
ing  cragreoh in regerd to the situation pertainin to
rice. Desides the rise of cost in tie price of ricc, the
price of tobacco ves officially grectly incre sed in the
middle of the nonth, en at the end of the nonth it vas an-
nounced th t the Central Com:odit" Price Connission had in-
creased the rice of silk textiles by sore 4or, to meet the
enormous ircrerse th't hed occurred surin recent months in
the

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.96)
-36*
the price of rav silk. The letter cormo ity fluctuated
between the Yen 1,800 nd Yen 2,000 level, Vhich was ap-
proxiretely the scme as th:t re: ched at the end of octobet.
The rigures for the rise in the cost of living for the
month vere civen es approximetel 3; over that for october.
The tuo f ctors contributine the most to this increase
were the aavancs in food prices and in fuel costs.
The
forrer rose by over 5 and the letter by over 4.
It was enaounced during the nonth that the ustral-
ian covernnent had allotted to Jepan : guot: of 3oc,coo
brles of "ool for the present wool season u to June 1940
-- a favorable developnent hich greatly :llayed the fears
of the voolen industry in Janan that supply by Australia
of th:t roy material vould be sh roly reduced. Conditions
es regards en adegurte surply of fertilizer continued to
remsir unfevor:ble. Concern also continued over the in-
cufficient supply of cool cnd electric pover for both in-
dustrial nd  eneral use. Hovever, in the latter part of
the nonth, it vas announeed thet throu h the opening of a
nev pover plant in centr'l Jepan and through the increase
in the v ter stored in the reservoirs it would be possible
to increrse the electric pover supply, thus amelioreting
conditions to sone extent. It vs announced during the
month thct, due to the slortage of coal, production of
steple fiber, both for domestic consumption and for ex-
port, vculd be curtailed.
The money market as noticeably ti hter durin the
nonth under review.
The money rates shoved e rarked in-
crese.
At the sre tine the stouk morket develoned
unusuel

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.95)
-31-
unusual strength, perticulεrly in spot trading, Stock.
prices hed ricen to very high levels, centering lirgely
round issues of re vy industries end miscollaneous
stcck:. These rises roflected the further rises in
commodity prices, revolts oi irroved American business
conditions, & more optiistic outlook for heavy indus-
tries due to 1-ree nilitary budgot Jenc ds. T.ey ere
rurther ettributeble to a hint civen out y the iristry
of Correrce end Industry that Jupan's price level nay be
allored to sdvance, vlong vith i:tern tional rices.
The Tice ituetion.
On Novenber 6 the Covernment r ised the officinl
r aximum holes le rice of rice by Von 5 per koku to Yen
43 per koliu, and announced thet this eule be the price
for tre current rice year, i.e. until Cctober 31, 1940.
This iacre se es attributed to the desire of the Govern-
r.ent to veisu de the fir ers to sell theii crops and also
to neet the inc: e so of price thet hed already unofficially
preveiled in the rice r rkets. A erera ly adverse situa-
tion had : developed es reg rds the supply n the rice
of rice this ye r ane during the month unaer revieu serious
concern bega t. be s. o ov r thic sitution. As mentich-
ed ir previous renoits, trere hid peen a clicht reduction
i. the rice crop in Janan for this ye r end a verv rarked
reduction in that for Koreu. Jopen renortedl, proauces all
but  nroxim tely 20 of its requirenents in this nrime food
conmodity, of whic! she corsurcs bout 80,cco, coo koku per
year (one koku equalling enproxiretely five t e ic bush-
els). The 20d deficioncy hes been ae up alrost entirely
in

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.92)
-32-
in the past by supplies fron Koree and Formose. It
was renorted thet on lovenber 1 the surplus of rice
left over fron the previous ye.r erounted to  roxiuctely
4,coo, oco koku, vhich reorcseited s reauetica  5o from
the ye r before and vas cons iieied to be  in iciert
m. rgin of sefety for the comin. sear, particul Il, in
vie: of the f ct th t it wculi h: rdl be possible to su
ment this supply b, the usual l r e lports fror foroa.
To reet the situetion, it is reorted thet th coremment
planned to import fcirl/ substantiul u atities of rice
from Rangoon and Tiailand (Sian) uring the next few
mo:ths.
Foreign Trcde.
t ticties for the foreir tr ce of the entire
Jananese Trire for the month of Nover her ere:
Totel exnorts, Ven 330,564,000.
Tot-1 irv0rts, Ven 228,713,000.
These fi ui es revesl : fovorable b 1 rce of Yen
150,51,cc0. Conpered it: the monti. of cetober, Toven-
ber's ficures troved  l ree l creese 1. exports, of ap-
proxinctely Yen 37,cco,occ and  decrease or inperts of
about Yen 18,0c0,c0o. The exponsien of emorts vas cue to
extre.ely heevy shipments of cotton yorn, to ship ents of
Whe t flour, prob bly maln ly to the Yen bloc, vhich vere
doubled over the pnount exportee durins the previeus month
ne to the inc:e se of e norts of such articles as rayon,
naper, soap, Lschilery, lumb r end mariue roducts. There
Ios ε decre: se, hovever, in exports of c'n ed oous, silk,
cotton

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.93)
-33-
cotton cloth sn? ten. As regerds Jancn's trade during
the month ith foreign currency countries, i. e., coun-
tries other than those of the Yen bloc, it is noted that
there es a slight decline in exports and c l4" decrease
in imports. This lntter decre:ce in inports announted for
the favorable br leace of trrde of sone Yen 20,000,000
that ves renorted by the Finence inistry to lheve occurred
in Japen proper's trede ith foreign currency countries.
The figures for Japan' proper's trsde vitn the Yen bloc
amounted to Yen 177,420,000 for exports and Yen 51,610,000
for imnorts. Tiese figures renresented a 31, increase in
exports and e 16, increase in imnorts.
The covernor of the Benk of Jeper, in e press inter-
vie given on Nover ber 19, decdared that Janan's foreign
trede vith foreign countries si co the outbrerk of the
Europern r had not shon the sharp increcse thet had been
enticipated.
He stated as his opinion that it would be
advisoble for Jepen to cut the cost of rouuction in order
to incre se the country's exports, und he varned th t it
may vell be necessery, in order to attain this end, to
strengthen in the future the econonic control over the na-
tion.
VII.
ACTIVITIY OF A T ICAL COL ERCIAL ITEHY TS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIEC O FCI COLRCIAL IUTR TS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
℃.
LISC ELL OUS.
Nothing to renort.
000
000
ooo

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
LES. TC S SENT TC THE DE ART ENT
NCVE BR 1939
No.
Date
Subject
4201
November 2
Company incorporated in Nevada for carryin
on business between Japan anc the Unite
States.
4202
November 2
Furchase of rublications for the library.
4203
November 2
Interference by Japanese Radio Station
with reception of broadcasts fron Amerin
radio station KGEI.
4204
November 2
Transmitting publications for the library.
4205
November 2
Press statement of r. Ginjiro Fujihara
regarding possible American-Jananese
Commercial Treaty, and use of Japanese
Pavilion at New York Worlds Fair.
4206
November 6
Employment of Translator Satoru Sugimura.
4207
November 3
Japanese reply to representations regardin
search by Chinese police agents at Chefoo
of Vice Consul Service.
4208
November 3
Japanese reply to representations regarding
search of American consul at Chefoo in
connection with Japanese currency restric-
tions.
4209
November 4
Leave of absence of Donald .. Lamm,
Foreign Service Officer.
4210
November 7
Personnel. No distribution.
4211
November 2
Reply to E bassy's representations con-
cerning policing of the extra-Settlement
roads at Shanghai.
4212
November 6
Material for Political Handbook.
4213
November 6
Inspector Genoral of the Chinese Maritime
Customs.
4214
November 6
Message of welcome to the members of the
crew of the Japanese round the world plane
NIPPON.
4215
November 6
Personal data desired from newly appointed
officers and employees.
4216
November 6
Transmittal of copy of note to Jananesc
Foreign Minister requesting information in
regard to privileges accorded American
yachts in Jananese ports.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
4217 November 6
Claim for pay, Clerk Narita, Deceased.
4218 November 6
Anbassedor's conversation with the Minister
for Foreirn Affairs, Admiral Nomura, con-
cerning 'merican-Jaranese relctions.
4219 Nove.ber 6
Press interview of r. Francis B. Savre
and ranort of his stay in Jaran en route
to 'anila.
4220 Novemher 6
ditoriel corment on remarks attributed to
Mr. Francis b. sayre ccncerning the Japanest
menace to the Philippines.
4221 November 6
International Congress of Aeronautical
Sciences.
4222 November 7
Radio broadcast to Janan by Mr. Horinouchi,
Japanese Ambassador at Washington.
4223 November 7
Japanese reaccion to the address of
October 19, 1939, before the America-Japan
Society in Tokyo.
4224 November 7
Japanese interference with British ships in
Chinesc waters.
4225 November 7
Census of Japanese subjects in Inner
Mongolia and China.
4226 November 7
Cipher tables.
4227 November 8
Transmittinf clipping - remarks of Mr. Frank
Von Hailand at Pan-Pacific Club, Tokyo.
4228 November 8
Transmitting clippin~ - remarks by Yakichiro
Sura on American attitude towards Jaran.
4229 November 8
Weng Ching-wei.
4230
November 10
British representations ccncernin& currency
restrictions et Canton.
4231 November 13
Transmiital of copies of an exchange of
letters between Mr. John E. Anderton and the
American Ambassador, Mr. Grew.
4232 November 13
Diplomatic Visa Report.
4233
November 13
American property losses: American Dominican
Missi on,
Kienow.
4234 November 14
American property losses: Southern Beptist
Mission, Shiuchow, Kwangtung.
4235 November 14
American property losses: Augustana Synod,
Hsuchang, Honan.

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No.Date
Subject
4236 November 14
Reply to British Embassy's representaticris
coneerni ng policing of the Extra-Set tioment
roads at Shanghai.
4237 November 16
Withdreval of Foreign Armed Fcrces in China.
4238 November 16 Leave ci ence of Clerk Gertrude Feer.
4239
November 16
Code nooks.
4240 November 17
Arrangements for Meteorological Organization
in the Pacific by Japan an the Weather Bure:
of the United States Tepartrent of Agricultu
4241 Noverber 17
Transmittal of newspaper item reporting con-
cession to produce quinine granted by
Ecuadoran government to a Janenese.
4242 November 20
Transmittal of translation of newspaner
article in rerly to address of the American
Ambassador on Cctober 19, 1939.
4243 Noveaber 20
American propertv losses: Evangelical
Lutheran Mission, Shashin, Hupeh.
4244
November 20
Linen Shipments from Swetow.
4245
November 20
Interference by Jananese radio station with
reception of broadcasts from imerican radio
station KGEI.
4246 November 20
Egg trace restrictions.
4247 Nove ber 20
Taranese restrictions and reeulations imposed
on American nationals and American business
enterprises at Tiontsin.
4248 November 20
American pronerty losses: United Brethren
Mission, iulam, Chungshan, wangtung.
4249 November 2C
American property losses: Catholic Mission,
Hsin Chuang Tse, Shantung.
4250 November 20
American property losses: Covenant His-
sionary Societv, Icheng, Hupeh.
4251 Novomber 20
American property losses: Southern Baptist
Mission, Chengchov, Honan.
4252 November 20
American pronerty losses: Union High School
Foochow, Fukien.
4253 November 20
American property losses: American Catholic
Mission, Likiatu,
Ki ansi.
4254 Nove...ber 22
Transmitting cliiping - press interview of
Mr. Reikichi Kita, regarding international
situation.

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
No. Date
Subject
4255 November 21
Transmittal of translation of report by
Japanese authorities of activities of one
Mosos Albert /ttia, Narcotics suspect, hile
in Janan.
4256 November 21
Transmittinr address made by the Anbasseccr.
4257 November 21
Pronosed cooneraticn in China between the
United States anl Japan.
4258 November 21
Home (Statutory) eave - Fran! S. illiams,
Commercial Atteche.
4259 November 20
Difficulties encountered by the Anerican
Mction Picture Asscci:tion of Janan.
4260 Nove.nber 21
ronosed visit of Ccunt Aisu'e Yabayana to
the United Stetes.
4261 November 21
Transmitting clipning: Pre interviews
with r. Herman E. Talmadge anc others.
4262 November 25
Dirlomatic Visa Renort.
4263
November 28
American prcperty losses: Advent :ission,
Chao, Hsien, Inhui Province.
4264
November 28
Anericun property losses: Standard-Vacuun
Oil Company, Laohokow.
4265 Nover.ber 28
Anerican property losses: Covenant Mis-
sionary Society, Siangyane.
4266 Noverber 28
Anerican property L sses: Lutheran United
ission, Fancheng.
4267 ovember 28
Reauest for cvernment publication.
4263
Nove ber 0
Anerican pronerty losses: Christian and
Missicnary Alliance ission, Ciushan,
Ozechuan.
4269 Novenber 70
Roport of conditions in Jupan during the
month of Cctober 1939.
4270 Nove: ber 30
Amorican property losses: Couthern Baptist
Mission, Chonrchow.
4271
November 0
Americen nronerty losses: Presbyterian
Mission, North, Hengyang, Hunan.
4272 November 0
American property losses: Jouthern Presby-
terian ission, utsien, Kiangsu.

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.97)
- 5 -
No. Date
Subject
4273
November 30
American pronerty losses: American Coveran.
Missionary Society, Kingmen.
4274
Novnber 50
American pronertv losses: Seventh Day
Adventists, Changteh,
Hunan.
4275 November 30
American pronerty lossos: outhorn Baptist
Mission, Laicho", Shantung.

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRANS SENT TO THE DEFART ENT
DURING NCVE.BER 1939
No.Date
Subject
566 Nov. 1, 3 p.m.
Anglo-Japanese relations: Tientsion
situction.
567 Nov. 1, 7 n.m.
Heeting of the inisters of the Cabinet
with the Asia Board.
568 Nov. 2, noon
Extra-Settlement roads area, Shangha::
note from the Foreign Office.
569 Nov. 3, 9 a.m.
Apnointment with the Foreien Minister
570 Nov. 8, noon
Institute of the Pacific' rejoinder
to the Ambassador's address of Oct. 19.
571 Nov. 4, 3 P.m.
Press comnents on olotov's speech.
572
Nov. 4, 6 .m.
Denial of United Press renort regarding
economic sanctions.
:573 Nev. 4, 7 r.m.
Text of the statepent isued by the
Institute of the racific".
574 Nov. 4, 9 p.m.
Conversation with the Foreign :inister.
575
N v. 4, 10 p.m.
Fress comment on the statement of the
In titute of the Pacific".
576
Nov. 6, 9 a.m.
Cinher tables.
577
Nov. 6, 10 8..
Cinher tables.
578
Ncv. 6, 1l a.m.
Departure of ajor General Piggott,
British ilitary Att: ché.
579
Nov. 6, noon
Mr. Luther Tucker.
580
Nov. 6, 5 n.m.
Receipt of notes from the Foreifn Office.
581
Nov. 6, 6 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Cffice pokes an.
5ε2
Nov. 0, 7 p.m.
Tress comment on the conversation
between the Anbassador a d the Foreign
inister.
583
Nov. 8, 3 n.n.
Requisition for funds.
584
Nov. 6, 9 p.m.
Stete lent of Toreirn Office spokesmen.

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subjeet
585 Nov. 9, 1 n.m.
Press comaent on the arrival of the afw
Soviet Anbassador.
586 Nov. 9, 5 p.m.
Pross conment on Jan: nese-Amarican
relaticns.
587
Nov. 10, noon
Pecorturo cf Autia.
586
Nov. 10, 1 p.m.
hequest for cpoloyee - Comnercial oftice.
589
Nov. 10, 7 p.m.
Preis advertisement " terly to Ambas or
Grew".
190 Nov. 10, 8 p.m.
ithdrawl of foreign armed forces fro..
China.
591. Nov. 11, 2 n.m.
Interview of the Foreign Minister anu the
British Ambassador; Tientsion situstion.
592
Nov. 11, 3 p.m.
British "Library of Infor tion" in Tokyo
593
Nov. 11, 4 n.m.
Date set for convocation of the Imperial
Diet.
594
Nov. 1l, 5 r.n. Press interview of the Minister of Var.
595
Nov. 11, 6 p.n. Froposed visit to tht. Kansei.
596
Nov. 13, 10 a.n. Imperial Airways plane.
597 ov. 15, 2 n.m.
Fress report of the statement of the
Japanese bassy in Washinston.
598 Nov. 1., 6 n.m.
Press comment with regard to settlement
of damages to American interests in China.
599
Nov. 14, 11 a.n. Yali Union idule School, Yuanling.
COO
Nov. 14, 6 p.m.
Article in the financial colurns of the
To yo I SA I.
601 Ncv. 14, 7 r.m.
Vithcrawal of 'orei n armed forces ir
China.
602
Nov. 15, 3 n.1.
Tress comment on Jantnese-irerican
relations.
603 Nov. 15, 5.m.
Anglo-Japanese rel tions; Tientsin
situ.tion.

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No.
Date
Subjeet
604
Nov. 16, 11 a.m.
Difficulties of Americans at Tients.n.
605
Nov. 16, noon
Linen snipments fron Swatow.
606
Nov. 16, 1 r.m.
Eg trade restrictions.
607
lNov. 16, 6 p.m.
Press comment on interview of the
Soviet Abassador and the Foreien
Minister.
608
Nov. 16, 7 p.m.
Editorial on 'Wate of Nine ower Tr 3ty'
609
Nov. 17, 11 a.m.
Request for allotment f'or insurance.
610
Nov. 17, 2 p.m.
Conversation wi th the Soviet Ambassador.
611
Nov. 17, 7 p.m.
Detention of r. Tucker.
612
Ncv. 12, 10 a.m.
Assinment of Second Secretary.
613
Nov. 18, noon
Press comment on conversation between
the Fore ign inister and the Soviet
A ibassader.
614
Nov. 20, 5 p.m.
Consolidation of the Forein Service.
615
Nov. 21, 6 p.m.
Conver sation of the Ambassador; Americar
Janrnese relations.
616
Nov. 21, 9 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador -
American-Jaranese relations.
617
Nov. 23, 10 a.m.
Crvis Prothers, New York.
618
Ncv. 22, 11 1.1.
Home leave of  rs. eeca Playfair.
619
Nov. 22, 5 n.m.
Authcrization to use codes.
620
ov. 23,  p..
Detention of  r. Tucker.
621
Nov. 24, 11 a.m.
Universal Leaf Tobecco Co.
622
Nov. 2, noon
Nomonhan border comnission.
623
Nov. 2, 5 n.m.
Pres; comment on Janane se-American
relations.
624
Nov. 24, 6 n.m.
Request for stenorrapher.
625
Nov. 25, 7 p.m.
Fress ec mment on Jep ine se-Anerican
relations.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4-
No.
Date
Subjecs
626
Nov. 27, 3 p.m.
Telegraas of the British, Fronch a
Tolish Ambassadors; Soviet-Jananese
relations.
627 Nov. 27, 4 p.m.
Anglo-Jamarese reletions; Tientsin
sitsetion.
628
Nov. 27. 5 .m.
Addres, of the Prime .inister at Cealx.
629
Nov. 27, 6 p.m.
Press comment on Soviet-Japanese re?1.:
630
Nov. 27, 7 p.m.
Japanese-Americen relations.
631
Nov. 27. 9 p.m.
Soviet-Japanese relations.
632
ov. 27. 10 p. m. Press comment in the United States on
American-Japanese rel&tions.
633
Nov. 27, midnight Conversation of Mr. Dooman.
634
Nov. 28, 2 n.n.
American-Japanese relations.
635
Nov. 26, 7 p.m.
Press report of Japanese special cor:
pondont in ashington.
636
ov. 89, 10 a..
Renetition of telegrans to oscew.
637
Nov. 29.  n.m.
Pritish Tnperial Airways and Jaranese
air line.
638
Nov. 2, 6 p.m.
Detention of r. Tucver.
639
Fov. ?, 7 n.m.
Notes from the Foreign Office.
640
Nov. 39, 7 n.m.
Assienment of Consul Ceneral to Tokyo.
641
Nov. 28, 8 p.m.
Acknowledgment of report of conversation
of the Secretary of tate with the
Jaranese /mbassador.
642
Nev. 9, 10 p.m.
Soviet-Jananese rel:tions.
643
Nov. .0, 4 p.m.
Code bool.
