894.602 Industrial Matters., Japan, Monopolies. Concessions. Franchise. Contracts. Bounties. Subsidies. Cartels. Where Practicable, Concession, Ect., Are Classified Under Their Specific Subjects., February 2, 1940 - November 23, 1944 (File 1465)
ID: 894.602-1465   Pages: 4   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.602-industrial-matters-japan-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE FEB 1 1940 DIVISION OF FOREIGN SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
File
894.602

C. P. MONNINGH
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW
4472 WHITTIER BOULEVARD
LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA
PHONE ANGELUS 15863

If a reply, please use:
161 So. Berkeley Ave.,
Pasadena, California.
Feb. 2, 1940.

Secretary of State, Cordell Hull,
Washington, D. C.

Excellent Sir: February

submit
Allow me to humbly submit a different-from-the-average interpretation of what the Japanese are doing. I hardly expect to add anything to your vast supply of facts. And, I would be grateful for any facts you could give me in details as to growth of monopolies in Asia.

We, in California, do not underestimate the intelligence of the Japanese. Please study especially well the first column of page 37, article by Orchard, Jany. 1940 issue of Asia magazine, New York City Publication, article entitled: "Manchoukuo, - A Pattern of the New Order in East Asia". The writer said that of 35 newly created enterprises in Manchoukuo, 17 of the 35 are monopolies. Five of another 15 are considered monopolies. Such is Japan's attempt to thwart Communism. Note that the surplus profits idea in enclosed synopsis is not yet applied because such is an investment of new capital wherein profits are not yet realized except on reinvestment.

One Manchoukuo magazine, commenting on its "Five Year Plan" that has proven successful said that Government policy is "One enterprise for one corporation". This may soon be interpreted as "One corporation for each line of business and industry with automatic surplus profits to be divided between Capital, Labor and the Public".

Press reports inform me that on a PROVINCIAL SCALE Japan is contemplating, or has begun monopolization of parts of conquered China.

A Japanese magazine informs the public that War Minister Hata was recently obliged to argue concerning a rice monopoly for Japan wherein there is a shortage, - not a surplus.

The unusual fact about this American idea is that if your agents simply explain it in a few words to Americans, you will find 98%, or thereabouts, from poor to advisers to the wealthy, heartily in favor of it. We must remember that humans are humans, and whether poverty stricken in America or China, or elsewhere, such are susceptible to Communism for they know no other way out even tho it is a blind alley, a shadow, if that much, of the real thing.

With best wishes to you in aiding the American people,

I remain.

Very truly yours,
C. P. MONNINGH

894.602/9
F/W

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
INDUSTRIAL MONOCARCY

WORLD ELIMINATE COMPETITION IN BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY. The result would be planned classified monopolies as merchants would trade their patents and assets for stock in a monopoly of their kind of business. Each class of industry would be operated by a national privately owned corporation under one head and ownership and not as a holding company.

It is humanly impossible at this time to anticipate all of the possible blessings which will come from the applied theory. A few are:

- Preservation of highly populated and complicated humanity by simplification.
- Freedom of humanity in time and economic servitude with opportunity of mental initiative.
- Agricultural Monocracy, a sub-point of Economic Monocracy, will organize itself as a result of the example of Industrial Monocracy.

As competition retards progress and is the source of most troubles, - causes family quarrels, ill health, crimes, suicides, and high taxes, - naturally, the elimination of competition would automatically lessen these and other troubles.

A higher standard of living for all; necessities and luxuries easily earned.

More marriages and less troubles over easily produced economic wants which now cause many, if not most, of our divorces.

No small merchants (who must work 14 hours for one hour of actual sales). No low wages, long hours of employer as well as employee, ill health, lack of time for family life. No economic incentive of crime, uncollected bills and judgments, advertising and salesmanship. The worker must support the non-worker whether he is a relative, friend, or stranger.

Less laws and simplification of the balance. Repeal of all anti-trust laws. No litigation between (non-existent) small merchants. Justice more easily attained through law.

Wealthy retain their wealth and the poor have the opportunity of earning. At present, even the drones, crooks and parasites can not profit as the producers can not produce.

Hours of work easily adjusted according to consumption.

No depressions or panics.

No failures in investments of savings or business because of competition. 95% now fail.

Economics simplified along with less government.

Only one regulatory law needed, - limitation of surplus profits (if earned). Such a law if found necessary would prevent oppression by monopolies.

Merchant's dream of common sense for profit realized, - the maximum of production and distribution without waste. At present, competition gives one the opportunity to cheat, wrong and defraud one another, sometimes success but statistically 95% or more of failures.

If foreign competition is found desirable, private ownership could successfully compete with public ownership of monopolies. Results: Two great systems of economies, - public and private ownership of monopolies. Foreigners would even appreciate lower prices.

Except income, inheritance, and gift taxes, - the monopolies are to pay all LOCAL and FEDERAL taxes. No other taxes whatever. No tariffs as imports are to be limited to those articles that this country can not produce.

Lack of competitive foreign trade will lessen cause of most wars.

Only business actually serving the public would exist. The public could actually earn the maximum of its ability. Now it is one penniless salesman selling to a penniless buyer. Surely, practical idealism can not be worse than competition.

Less military preparedness necessary as the nation is always economically impregnable; military efficiency without military supervision. Competition thwarts patriotism.

Sabotage of employers ended. Employee sabotage ended as employees earn more money.

Money and demand would automatically balance as excess profits limited by industry. Less hours of work, more pay to employees, smaller retail price, larger business net stock.

And a program will help to realize purpose of life, - our children and future generations will be better than ourselves. Golden Rule results from applied logical theory.

The World Monocracy can be put into effect through (1) repeal of anti-trust laws, (2) constant balance development and industry, and (3) martial law.

The use of the United States Constitution actually realized: - Life, liberty and freedom, and power, - Nicotiana, papyros, riots, revolution, exactly what

(See also is a summary of a brief.)

261 S. McCauley

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.87)
February 12 1940

February 12 1940

594.602/9

1940

594.602/9

1940

594.602/9

In reply refer to
TF 594.602/9

My dear Mr. Monningh:

The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of February 3, 1940, with which you enclose an article entitled "Industrial Monosracy".

The contents of your letter and its enclosure have been noted with care and the spirit which prompted you to bring your views to the Department's attention is very much appreciated.

Sincerely yours,

For the Secretary of State:

R. J. W.
Marwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs

CR
FEB 12 1940

Mr. C. P. Monningh,
321 North Berkeley Avenue,
Pasadena, California.

A true copy of the signed original.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
This Document Must Be Returned to
CS/HM
894.602/11-2344
CS/HM
894.602/11-2344

Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO: Mr. Remer
FROM: Mr. Lockhart
SUBJECT: Prospectus on Japanese Cartel System

DATE: Nov. 23, 1944

I see no reason for thinking that Rudolph's inference from the President's letter on German cartels is erroneous or that the principles of that letter are not entirely applicable to Japan. Rudolph's explanation of the development of Japanese cartels seems to me to support this view. While Rudolph does not use the word Zaibatsu, it seems to me to be implied in the third paragraph on page 2 of his prospectus. It states that "the system began with private business enterprise organized into monopolistic groups".

Certain possibilities of difficulty in Rudolph's program occur to me: I have objected to the indication in the revised CAC-222 that that paper could lay the groundwork for longer range economic policies. Rudolph's paper in the last paragraph on page 3 seems clearly to indicate that policies to be followed by the military occupation authorities will constitute the groundwork for further measures of a more remedial character to be taken after occupation. In short, it appears to me that the short run measures of military occupation may conceivably clash with practicable long-run measures.

I note also that the last portion of Rudolph's tentative outline dealing with policy questions relating to the cartel system seems to get into what has been debatable ground as to postwar development of enemy countries, and in particular to traverse pretty much the whole field of long run policy toward Japan. Whether the relation of the cartel system to these questions of economic policy can be so sharply defined as to avoid conflict with proposals for reasonable economic policy that has a chance of approval within the Department seems to me open to question. Woolley's comment in a recent conference in Collado's office rather supports my fears. You will recall that Rudolph proposes to deal with the stamping out of economic aggression and the development of Japan into an integral element in unrestricted, multilateral, non-discriminatory world trade.
