894.0146 Government. Mandates, Recognition., Territory. Maps, Japan, Territory Occupied By Foreign Military Forces., January 22, 1945 - February 18, 1949 (File 1698)
ID: 894.0146-1698   Pages: 45   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.0146-government-mandates-recognition-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
OFFICE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 3 0 1945
OFFICE
KESRGN OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
MR. HICKERSON
Division of British Commonmealth Affa
TLEA
January 22, 1945
Smo. 0146
EUR - Mr Hicherson
BC:RBS
Some Thoughts On Marous Island, Bonin Islands, Volcano
Islands, and the Japanese Mandated Islands
8
The Inter-Divisional Area Committee on the Far East has
6
for some time been considering the disposition of the above
named islands but has not yet arrived at final recommendations.
It seems probable, however, that the Committee will recommend
that these islands be transferred to the International Organ-
1zation as "trust" areas with the United States being appointed
0
to administer them.
h
It appears to me from the document on trusteeship that
the proposed trust system has in mind people and their political,
economic, and social advancement. It Is true that the stated
objectives of the system are also (a) to provide non-diseriminatory
treatment to nationals of all member states and (b) to further
peace and security. Never the less the principle objective is
22
the welfare of native peoples. Where no people exist the
trust system seems to me not to be applicable.
As regards Marcus Island it is uninhabited and therefore
Conect!
5
in my opinion hardly fits into the trusteeship pattern. There
are no natives to be uplifted. Its only purpose would be to
serve as a United States base. Although the trusteeship dooument
provides that the Trusteeship Council should be empowered "to
assist the Security Council at its request", I do not see how
the Trusteeship Counc1l would in any way come into the base
arrangement at Marouss. The question is: do we wish to transfer
the shadow of control to the International Organization and
keep the substance or should we annex outright?
P
It should be borne in mind that under the trusteeship plan S
some other state or authority. This should not be a real worryy
to us since (1) we will be in aotual possession, and (2) we arel
F
not

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
not contemplating becoming an international outlaw. It is
difficult to foresee ciroumstances in which we could not mester
enough support among the nations to prevent transfer of
administration to another power. Ir our position of imrlmense
should sink to this low ebb we would probably try to hold the
1sland anyway despite any general decision against us. This
reasoning applies as well to the other islands in question.
As regards the Bonin and Volcano Islands they contain a
small population (only about 7,C00) almost entirely Japamese.
The Islands have slight economic importanoe. The best base
site in these 1slands appears to be Futami Bay on Chichi-Jime
Island (1n the Bonins). More than 4,000 of the total 1nhabitants
are on this one island and they are largely centered around
Futam1 Bay. By the end of the conquest of these islands
their population will be even smaller. In any event our Mavy
Department obviously would not care to have a few thousand
Japs living around its naval base.
The question arises whether all remaining Japanese papulation
in the Bonin and Volcano Islands should not be removed as soon
051
as we are in a position to do it. The numbers will be in-
significant in any case. It is olear that the Navy Department
must be free to make any papulation shifts necessary for the
security of any base established. Again if no people are on
the islands the trusteeship plan is not applicable.
As regards the Japanese mandated islands they contain about
50,000 natives and 80,000 Japanese. They have cons1derable
econom1c importance with exports of about al,000,000 and imports
between 6 and 7 million dollars a year. Even 1f the Japanese
population were removed in whole or in part a substantial mumber
of natives would remain. Thus these islands fit more appropriately
into the trusteeship pattern.
If any of these 1slands (Marous, Bonin, Voloano, and
mandated islands) are transferred to the International Organization
the United States should have actual admin1stration with the
right to establish bases anywhere and to take any measures
necessary for the security of such bases. This would include
removal or shifting of population and determination of conditions
on whieh we may care to make base facilities open to others.
If we desire rights in these islands in perpetuity this
should be olearly speclfied. Otherwise,-if they become part of
the trust system, the International Organization would have the
right to terminate our administration.
(Continued next page)
0as
anstewart:me1

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
The Area Committee on the Far East 1s recommending that
certain other uninhabited islands (The Spratley Islands and
the Paracel Islands) be transferred to the International
Organization. This recommendation is based in part on the
faot that no one nation has good title or an exolusive
interest in these 1slands and that the islands should not
be hazarde to navigation. The Analogy of the Atlantio Ioe
Patrol has been presented to the Committee. There 1s, however,
no trusteeship question.
It seems to me that in considering the disposition of
various 1slands in the Pacific we might divide them into
three categories and make different provisions for them
under the International Organization:
(1) Islands with native populations which should be
placed under the International Trusteeship system.
(2) Islands with population used exolusively for
military bases. In so far as they may be placed under the
International Organization the Seourity Council rather than
the Trusteeship Council should have Jurisdiotion.
(3) Islands such as the Spratleys and Paracels which
constitute hazarde to navigation. These call for still a
different arrangement. They would not seem to come under
either the Security Counoll or the Trusteeship Counoll.
The foregoing are some thoughts for your consideration
at this stage. If you have any thoughts which you would
like presented to the Committee before it conoludes its
study of these 1slands I know it would be glad to have such
suggestions. You may prefer to wait until the papers
are all completed before offering your views.
DC:RBStewart:me1

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Orri0e
OF EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
TOP SECRET
February 20, 1945
BC - Mr. Stewart
Don't forget that you agreed on Saturday to talk
to Ben Gerig about the formula which 1s being developed
in the Trusteeship Committee for the Japanese Mandated
Islands, Marcus Island and the Bonins. The Chiefs of
Staff may well wish to include the Voloano Islands as
8
an area in which there is to be a United States base,
especially in the light of happenings over the weekend.
Those islands were not, however, included in their
recommendations which are now before us. You will recall
that I told you General Embick had suggested that the
1slands be leased to the United States. I like this
suggestion. These islands are important strategioally.
The native welfare aspect 1s minor for the reason that
there only a handful of natives. It seems to me that
we might consider recognizing that the strategio
aspeot of all these 1slands 1s paramount by vesting
sovereignty to them in (1) those states which are to
have permanent seats on the Security Council of the
2245
United Nations organization (mention by name) or (2)
in the Security Council 1tself. In either event there
should be advance agreement that the 1slands are to
be leased to the United States for such period of time
as the United States feels it necessary to lease them
for defense purposes; this might be for 99 years with
the option of renewal or stated about as I have stated
1t in the first part of this sentence. The lease
might well provide that the United States could, if
it saw fit, cancel the lease and turn the 1slands back
to the Security Counoil, which would then consider
whether to turn the islands over to the internati onal
trusteeship organization or to make some other disposition
of them.
894.0146/1.2245
Don't forget that you have promised to giveme
the benefit of your views on this and the results of
your inquiries.
TOP SECRET FILE
In4
John Hidkerson
EUR:JH:MSS

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.86)
CONHDL
To the
American Consular Orrioer 1n obarge,
Birmingham, England
The Secretary of State acknowledgen the receipt
C
of despatch No. 65 of January 30, 1945, and despatch
S
4
No. 127 of Apr1l 19, 1948 from Consul Sokobin request-
O
ing further information on the implioation made in an
F
artiole on "Japan's Mandated Islands" appearing in
C.
the December 17, 1944 1ssue of the Department of State
1
Bulletin that there is or can be a conneotion between
5
missionary work and political control in Pacifio areas.
i
(7
In this connection it is believed that the attached
document prepared in the Planning and Ressarch Unit of
the Ofrice of Far Eastern Affairs entitled "The In-
fluence of Missionaries on Colonial Polioy in the
Paoiric During the 19th Century" will be of interest
to Conaul Sokobin.
C.
厂
.1
7
Emolosure: PR-18 dated
xay 17, 1945
afe
C
SF
GTS JA
FE
FL
力
CK
-199

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
August 31, 1946
RECEIVED
Respectfully referred to the
DIVISION
Department of State.
M. C. LATTA
Executive Clerk
S

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
AUG 30 3 20 P1 1946
LPD
R WASHINGTON DC AUG 30 1946 142P
SEP
THE PRESIDENT
THE WHITE HOUSE
URGE THAT YOU MAKE CLEAR TO THE WORLD THAT THE UNITED
STATES INTENDS TO PLACE THE JAPANESE MANDATED ISLANDS UNDER
MITED NATIONS TRUSTEESHIP AND TO GOVERN THEM AS/ADMINISTERING
AUTHORITY, THROUGH A CIVILIAN AGENCY OF THE GOVERNMENT.
INDEFINITE CONTRADICTORY ANNOUNCEMENTS IN PRESS AUGUST 29
AND 3O BY SPOKESMEN IN WHOM FINAL AUTHORITY DOES NOT REST
HAVE EFFECT OF INCREASING THE CONFUSION IN AMERICAN AND
WORLD MIND. THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE UNITED NATIONS AT ITS

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
WERST SESSION ADOPTED RESOLUTIONS INVITING STOTES
ADMINISTERING TERRITORIES NOW HELD UNDER MANDATE TO
PRACTICAL STEPS FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF TRUSTEESHIP CHAPTERS OF
CHARTER IN ORDER TO SUBMIT TRUSTEESHIP AGREEMENT FOR APPROVAL
MOT LATER THAN THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY SESSION NEXT SEPTEMBER.
AUSTRALIA, BELGIUM, FRANCE, NEWZEALAND AND UNITED KINGDOM
HAVE RESPONDED AFFIRMATIVELY TO THIS RESOLUTION AND TO THE
CHARTER PROVISIONS. THE FAILURE OF THE UNITED STATES TO
MAKE CLEAR THAT IT INTENDS TO TRUSTEE THE MANDATED AREA
WHICH IT, AS MILITARY OCCUPANT ADMINISTERS IS INJURIOUS
TO DEVELOPMENT OF UNITED NATIONS TRUSTEESHIP SYSTEM AND TO TRADITI

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
OF WORLD LEADERSHIP BY THIS COUNTRY
IN PRONOTING THE INTERESTS OF DEPENDENT PEOPLES.
IN ADDITION TO PLACING THESE ISLANDS UNDER
TRUSTEESHIP, THEY SHOULD BE PLACED UNDER CIVILIAN
ADMINISTRATION. GOVERNMENT OF PEOPLE BY MILITARY AGENCIES
EXCEPT IN TIMES OF NATIONAL EMERGENCY IS CONTRARY TO
AMERICAN PRINCIPLES OF DEMOCRACY, JUSTICE, AND FREEDOM
AND OBSTRUCTS FULFILLMENT OF PRESENT AND POSSIBLE FUTURE
OBLIGATIONS OF THE UNITEDSTATES SET FORTH IN CHAPTERS XI,
XII, AND XIII OF CHARTER. MILITARY REQUIREMENTS CAN BE FULLY
MET THROUGH TRUSTEESHIP UNDER ASSEMBLY OF UNITED NATIONS AND
WITHOUT SUBJECTING INHABITANTS OF THESE ISLAND TO PERMANENT
NAVAL RULE. THEREFORE, WE JOIN OUR FELLOW CITIZENS IN URGING

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
T YOS BEGLARE UNEQUIVOCALLY UNITED ST
AND TAKE THE NEEDED STEPS TO TRUSTEE THE JAPANESE
ISLAND UNDER THE ASSEMBLY OF THE UNITED NATIONS
WITH THE UNITED STATES AS ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY, AND TO
PLACE THESE ISLAND, ALONG WITH GUAM, SAMOA AND OTHER UNITED
SCa
NATIONS PACIFIC ISLAND POSSESSIONS, UNDER THE
ADMINISTRATION OF A CIVILIAN AGENCY OF THE GOVERNMENT
JOHN COLLIER,PRESIDENT INSTITUTE OF ETHNIC AFFAIRS
RICHARD WOOD PRESIDENT NATIONAL PEACE CÓNFERENCE,
JUSTICE OWEN J ROBERTS PRESIDENT UNITED NATIONS
COUNCIL OF PHILA, NORMAN THOMAS CHAIRMAN POST WAR
WORLD COUNCIL, MRS WILLIAM H DAVIS PRESIDENT WOMENS

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
MTZONAL DENOCRATIC CLUB, MRS EDGERTON PERSONS
ANERICAN SECTION PAC, PACIFIC WOMENS ASSOCIATION.
DOROTHY KENYON, HARRY LAIDLAR, FRIENDS COMMITTEE ON
NATIONAL LEGISLATION, NATIONAL COUNCIL OF JEWISH WOMEN
UNION FOR DEMOCRATIC ACTION, COUNCIL AGAINST
INTOLERANCE, WORKERS DEFENSE LEAGUE, COUNCIL FOR
DEMOCRACY, FRIENDS GENERAL CONFERENCE, UNITED STATES
STUDENT ASSEMBLY, COUNCIL FOR SOCIAL ACTION, CATHOLIC
WAR VETERANS.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.88)
In roply refer to
DA
My dear Mr. Callier:
The telegram which you and a mmber of othes eitisens ses
to the President on August 30, 194é, coneerning the dlapesitiem
of the Japanese Mandated Ialande and the futare adadniskrakiem of
those islands and of the ialand possessione of the Unised sseses,
has been referred to s for reply. Your eourteey in making your
viows on these impostant questions imon to the Covernment is
greatly appresiated.
The several grestions raised in your talegrem have besm the
 re th ah United stte h e ini
renounatag the posision of leederaip it has ackleved im the ee
at an carly dete and thst the umited statee ill sontimsé te take
an active part in its develeptent.
It is antigtpated that a statement of kmeriaan pollay regaréing
the appliestign of the trusteeskip system to the formsr Japanese
0190
tored by the tnited staten, I baldeve that it is advipakle to deley
problem to the diapoaitiom of the islands mew under military
ocoupation.
C
-304
Bincerely yours,
Aoting Socretery
Mr. Jehn Collier, President,
Institute of Etinie Affairo,
1719 x stroot, N.W.p
Washington 6, D. C.
5PRT
R
PL A
9/10/46

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
25
In reply refer to
DA
My dear ür. Collier:
The telegran which you and a mumber of other sitisens
pent to the President on August 30, 1946, conoerning the dis
position of the Japanese Mandated Islanda and the future
administration of those ialande and of the island posssssions
of the United States, has been referred to this Department for
reply. Your courtesy in making your views on these important
questions known to the Government 1s greatly appreeiated.
The several quest ions raised in your telogran have been
the subject of long and intensive consideration by the Dapartment
of State and other interested Departments of the Government. The
traditional policy of the United States in promoting the interests
of dependent peoples and in contributing to the development of
the United Nations trusteeship system continues to have the full
and active support of this Government, which as you know took a.
important initiative in this field both at San Pranciseo and
London.
.
You y , with a infor and nligtned
public opinion behind it, it witt combie to do sa.'
7
Alger Hiss
Virector, Office of
Special Political Affairs
Mr. John Collier, President,
Institute of Etanic Affzire,
1719 X Stroot, N.W.,
Washin, ton 6, D. C.
A:Almelona
SHA
i I
1L
A-H
1/10/46

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.94)
25
SEP 24 194
In reply refer to
DA
My dear Mr. Collier:
The telegran whioh you and a number of other dtisens
00
sent to the President on August 30, 1946, sonserning the die-
position of the Japanese Mandated Islands and the future
3046
administration of those islamie and of the island pesssssiems
of the United States, has been referred to this Departmens for
roply. Your ourtesy in wakins your viows on these important
questions known to the Government is greatly appresiated.
The several queatiens paised in your telegrem have beemm
the subjeet of long hd inteasive consideration by the Department
of State and other interested Dapartmests of the Goverwmest. The
traditional poliey of the United States in promoting the interests
of dopendent peoplas and in sontriouting to the devalopmant of
CS/A
the United Nations trusteeship system sontinues to have the full
and astive support of this Government, which as you knew took an
important initiative in this field both at San Pransimeo and
London. It is the hope of this adainistration that, with an
informed and anlightened publie opinion behind it, it wdll be able
to continue to prese for impreved standarde of administration in
all non-self-governing territories.
Sincerely yours,
Alger Hiss
Direstor, Office of
Special Political Affaire
Mr. Jonn Collier, Proaidont,
Institute of Ethnie Affairs,
1719 X Stroet, N.W.,
8940.06
Washington 6, D. .
DA: ALNe Longy
jod
9/17/46
3046

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
Office Memorandum·UNiteD sTATES
To : Mr. Clair Wiloox
DATESoptek
FROM : M. C. Gay
suject: Terms Trusteeship for the Japanese Mandated Islands
A difference of opinion has arisen between State and
Navy members of SWNCC as to whether we should apply nat-
ional treatment to these islands (labeled a "strategie"
trusteeship - the only one.) Department representatives
felt the United Nations Charter requires national treat-
ment and that a deviation therefrom would jeopardize
our economic interests in other mandated areas. I under-
stand that Navy believes national treatment is impractieal
and unsafe even if applied subject to seourity require-
ments. The Navy wants application of the most-favored-
nation principle; it appears that what the Navy really
wants is authorization to apply the olosed door to these
areas. I understand that General Hilldring, in holding
for the national treatment principle, is trying to stretoh
the concept almost to the point of making the applioation
of the closed door permissible.
Faced with this dilemma, Mr. Gerig ha undertaken to
rewrite the pertinent section, Art. VIII, espousing nat-
ional treatment with far-reaohing limiting qualifioations.
He would permit creation by the administering authority
of monopolies of a fiscal nature, in essential publio
utilities and, subject to approval by the Supreme Counoil,
in any field if in the interests of the inhabitants. Ho
follows the British dreft trusteeship agreement for
Tanganyika except that this does not inolude the provision
for Supreme Counoil approval. Gerig says that Hawkins
0146
"reluctantly" approved the British formula, subjeot to the
approval provision, and that we have continued to hold
for its inclusion.
Mr. Wilson and I talked to Gerig, taking position
that wide extension of monopoly principle was unfortunate
and inoonsistent with our basio commeroial polioy, that
it permitted the closed door in practice. Mr. Gerig
admitted this was its raison d'etre. I expressed dis-
satisfaction with espousing the national treatment prinoiple
at the same time limiting it almost to the point of making
69
it meaningless.
46
In a later disoussion, Mr. Gerig indicated he and
his Office had deoided against the draft and now favored
most

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
most-favored-nation treatment on the grounds that it was
justifiable under the special "stretegic" classirication
on this mandate. I agread that it was better to be forth-
right in excluding aliens than to do it indirectly by
seeking to reconcile national treatment and the closed
door.
It seems to me unfortunate that we have gone so far
toward accepting the British formula and regrettable if
we are forced by the Navy into an illiberal policy in our
owm mandates. It will strengthen the hand of other
as leaders toward the objective of freer trade. Although
security may be the overriding consideration, it seems
difficult to fustify at this time an emulation of the
Japanese in throwing an iron curtain around these islands.
It seems to me we can af ord to take a chance for at least
the next two or three years on a fairly scrupulous
adherence to the requirements of the United Nation Chartor.
It is suggested that the Department's position should
be (1) that we insist where any non-military commerce is to
be done it be on a national treatment basis and that
burden of proof or such security requirements as would pre-
clude it ve put strongly to the Navy, and (2) that if
aliens must in fact be kept out the exclusion be done
directly by administrative action through visa control
perhaps accompanied by the application of the most-favored-
nation principle rather than by espousing national
treatment only to make it insignificant by limiting
qualifications.
CP:MCGay:eg;mfm

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
DA-81
August 2, 1946
Confidential.
BRITISH DBASSY,
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
July 31, 1946
Ref. 419/ /46
Dear Mr. Gerig.
With reference to your recent discussions with the
Colonial Office in London regarding the dreft terms of trusteeship
for Tanganyika end Togoland and the Cameroons under British Mandate.
I am enclosing three copies of e provisionel revise of the draft
terms of trusteeship for Tanganylka.
2.
I have been asked to point out thet the revieed draft
is to be regarded only as the United Kingdom record, on the
official level, of the understendings reached during your recent
discussions. I am sure thet you will understand that the revisions
which have tentatively been agreed ere entirely without commitment
on the part of His Mejesty's Government and are subiect to
reference to Ministers, and to consultation with the Governors of
the territories concerned, We for our part recognize that your
acceptance of modifications in the original State Department
proposals are subject to reference to higher euthority in
Washington.
3.
I have also been asked to pass along the following two
small explanatory comments on the revised text:-
"(a) Article 12A. The United States text added the words
"freedom of migration and movsment". Mr. Gerig agresd to drop
"migration". The United Kingdom representatives said that they
would think whether there was sone more effective way of describing
"freedom of movement", but they have not yet been able to devise
a suitable synonym.
"(b) Article 13. The United Stetes text included a reference
to speciel reports. rrovisionally, no reference to this has been
made in the revised text, but the point is still being considered."
Yours sincerely,
G. H. MIDDLETON.
Mr. Ben Gerig,
Room 207,
Department of State,
1712 "G" Street.
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
Raviee'
(June, 1946).
DRAFT TERMS OF TRUSTEESHIP FOR TANGANYIKA
(Revisions underlined).
(Preamble - unchanged).
Article 1.
The territory to which this agreement applies comprises that
part of East Africa lying within the boundaries defined by Article I
of the British liandate for East Africa, and by the Anglo-Belgian
Treaty of the 22nd of November, 1934, regarding the boundary
between Tanganyika and Ruande-Urundi.
Article 2.
His Majesty is hereby designated as Administering Authority
for Tanganyika on behalf of the United Netione. The responsibility
for the administration of Tanganyika will be undertaken by His
Majesty's Government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.
Article 3.
The Administering Authority undertakes to edminister
Tanganyika in such a manner as to achieve the basic objectives of
the International Trusteeship System leid down in Article 76 of the
United Nations Charter. The Administering Authority further under-
takes to collaborate fully with the Generel Assembly of the United
Nations and the Trusteeship Council in the discherge of all their
functions as defined in Article 87 of the United Nations Charter,
and to facilitate any periodic visits to Tanganyika which they may
deem necessary at times to be agreed upon with the Administering
authority.
Article 4.
The Administering Authority shell be responsible (a) for the
peace, order, good government and defence of Tanganyika, and (b)
for ensuring that it shall play its part in the maintenence of
international peace and security.
Article 5.
For the above-mentioned purposes and for all purposes of this
agreenent, as may be necessary, the Administering Authority:-
(a) shall hove full powers of legislation, administration,
and jurisdiction in Tanganyika, subject to the pre-
visions of the United Natione Charter end of this
agreement;
(b)
 shall be entitled to constitute Tengenyika into a
customs, fiscal or administretive union or federation
with adjacent territories Lomit "under his sovereignty
or control"/, and to establish common services between
such territories and Tanganyikn where such measures
/are

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
are not inconsistent with the basic objectives of the
International Trusteeship System end with the terma of
this agreement:
(c) and shall be entitled to establish naval, militery and
air bases, to erect fortifications, to station and employ
his own forces in Tanganyika and to take all such other
measures ps are in his opinion necessary for the defence
of Tangenyika and for ensuring that the territory pleys
its pert in the maintenence of internationel peace and
security. To this end the dministering uthority may
make use of volunteer forces, facilities and essistance
from Tangenyika in carrying out the obligrtions towards
the Security Council undertsken in this regerd by the
Administering uthority, as well as for local defence and
the maintenance of lew and order within Tengenyika.
article 6.
1. The administering authority shell promote the development
of politicel institutions suited to Tengrnyika. To this end. the
Administering authority ehell nssure to the inhebitents of
Tanganyika e progressively increesing shere in the edministretive
and other services of the territory: shell develop the participation
of the inhebitents of Tanganyika in advisory end legisletive bodies
end in the government of the territory. both central end local. as
may be appropriate to the perticular circumstences of the territory
and ils peoples: end ehell take e11 other eppropriete meesures with
e view to the political advencement of the inhebitants of Tanganvike
towards the objectives of self government or independence eo
prescribed in article 76(b) of the United Natione Charter.
Ladditional sentence to be added in caee of Togoland end
Cameroone only:
In considerine the measures to be taken under this peragraph
the Administering uthority shall. in the intereste of the
inhabitants, have special regerd to the provisions of
Article 5 (a) of this Agreement.
2. The Administering uthority shall colleborete fully with
the Trusteeship Council in the conauct of eny surveys of the
develorment of the politicel institutions end the cepecity for
self-government of the inhabitants of Tengenyike which the
Administering uthority end Trusteeship Councii agree it would be
useful to hold. The administering uthority and the Trusteechip
Council shall likewlse agree upon the time at which eny such
survey con usefully be held. and upon the most appropriate methode
of ensurine the free expression of the wishes of the lucal
population during the conduct of such swvey.
Article 7.
The Administering uthority undertekes to apply in Tanganyika
the provisione of any international conventions end recommendatlons
already existing or hereafter drawn up by the United Netions or bz
the specialised agencies referred to in Article 57 of the Charter.
which mey be appropriate to the perticuler circumstences of the
territory and which would conduce to the achievement of the besic
ob,jectives of the International Trusteeship System.
/.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
-3
r1cle8.
In framing laws relating to the holding or transfer of land
and resources, the Administering Authority shall take into con-
sideration native laws and customs, and shall respect the rights
and safeguard the interests, both present and future, of the native
population. No native land or resourcee may be transferred, except
between natives, save with the previous consent of the competent
public authority. No real rights over native land or resources
in favour of non-natives may be created except with the same con-
sent.
Art1cle 9.
Subject to the provisions of Article 10 of this agreement.
the Administering authority shall take all necessary steps to
ensure equel treatment in social, economic, industrial and com-
mercial matters for all members of the United Nations and their
nationals and to this end:-
(a) shall ensure the same rights to all nationals of members
of the United Nations as to his own nationals in respect
of entry into and residence in Tanganyika, freedom of
transit and navigation, includine freedom of traneit and
navigation by eir, acquisition of property both movable
and immovable, the protection of person and property.
and the exercise of professions and trades;
(b)
shall not discriminate on grounds of nationality against
nationals of any member of the United Nations in matters
relating to the grant of concessions for the development
of the naturel resources of Tanganyika, and shall not
grant concessions having the character of a general
monopoly;
(c)
shall ensure equel treatment in the administration of
justice to the netionals of ell members of the United
Nations.
The rights conferred by this Article on nationels of members
of the United Nations ap ly equelly to companies and associations
controlled by such nationals and orgenised in accordance with the
law of any member of the United Nations.
Article 10.
Meesures taken to give effect to article 9 of this agreement
shall be subject always to the overriding duty of the Administering
Authority in accordance with Article 76 of the United Nations
Charter to promote the political, economic, sccial and educational
advancement of the inhabitants of Tanganyika, to carry out the
other basic objectives of the Internntional Trusteeship System,
and to maintain peace, order and good government. The Aáministering
Authority shall in particular be free:-
(a) to organise essential public services and works on
such terms and conditions as he thinks just;
(b) to create monopolies of a purely fiscal cheracter in
order to provide Tanganyika with the fiscal resources
which seem best suited to local requirements, or
otherwise to serve the interest of the inhabitants of
Tanganyika:
(0)

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
(c) for specific purposes where the intereats ef the
sconomic advancement of the inhabitants of Tand
may require it, to establish, or permit to be eatmbls
other monopolies or undertakings having in them m
element of monopoly, under conditions of proper public
control. A,!
Article 11.
Nothing in this agreement shall Lomit "of itself"T entitle
any member of the United Nations to claim for itself or for its
nationels, compenies and associetions the benefits of Article 9
of this agreement in any respect in which it does not give to the
nationnls. compenies and associstions of Tanganvika eguality of
trentment with the netionals. companies and associations of any
other state.
Article ll.a /New
The administering Authority shell, es mey be appropriato to
the circunstences of the territory, continue and extend a general
system of elementary educetion designed to ebolish illlteracy and
to facilitete the vocationel end cultural edvencement of the
population. child and adult, rnd shall similarly provide such
fecilities as may prove desirable end precticeble in the interests
of the inhabitents for quelified students to receive secondary
and higher education, including professionel treining.
Article 12.
The Administering uthority shell ensure in Tangenyika
complete freedom of conscience and, so far as is consistent with
the requirements of public order end morality. freedom of religious
teaching and the free exercise of all forms of worship. Subject
to the provisions of article 8 of this agreement end the locel
law, missioneries who are nstionels of members of the United
Nations shell be free to enter Tengenyike end to trevel end reside
therein, to acquire end possess property, to erect religious
buildings and to open schools end hospitels in the territory.
The provisions of this article shell not, however, effect the
right end duty of the Administering uthority to exercise such
control as he mey consider necessary for the maintenence of peace,
order and good government and for the educationel advencement of
the inhabitants of Tanganyika, and to take all meesures required
for such control.
Article 12. New
Subject only to the requirenents of public order. the
Administerine Authority shall guerentee to the inhabitents of
Tangenyika freedon of speech. of the press. of assembly end of
petition.
Article 12.3 /New/
The administering uthority mey arrange for the co-operation
of Tanzanvike in any regionel edvisury conmiasion. regional
technicel organisation. or other voluntery essociation of states.
any specialised internctional bodies. public or private, or other
forms of internctional activity not inconsisient with the United
Natione Charter.
/artiale_13.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-5
Article 13.
The Administering Authority shell meke to the General Rssembly
of the United Nations an annual report on the basis of a questionneire
drawn up by the Trusteeship Council in accordence with Article 88
of the United Nations Charter. Such reports shell include in-
form tion concerning the measures taken to give effect to suggestions
end recommendations of the Generel Assembly and the Trusteeship
Council. The Administering authority shall designete an accredited
representative to be present et the sessions of the Trusteeship
Council at which the reports of the Administering authority with
regard to Tengenyikn ere considered.
Article 14.
Nothing in this agreement shell affect the right of the
administering uthority to propose, at eny future date, the
amendment of this agreement for the purpose of degignating the
whole or pert of Tanganyike es a strategic prea Lomit "in
accordance with articles 82 end 83 of the United Nations Charter"
or for any other purpose not inconsistent with the besic objectives
of the Internationel Trusteeship System.
article 15.
The terms of this agreenent shall not be pltered or amended
except as provided in rticle 79 end rticle 83 or 85, as the
crse may be. of the United Netions Cherter.
rticle 16.
If any dispute whatever should arise between the dministering
authority end enother member of the United Nations releting to the
interpretation or epplication of the provisions of this agreenent,
such dispute, if it cannot be settled by negotietion or other
means, shall be submitted to the Internationel Court of Justice
provided for in Chepter XIV of the United Nations Charter.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.87)
Hoavana, Cuba: Naviembre 8-19m
mr. Spruyle Braden
MR. BRADEN
OFFICE OF
NOV 191946
HashingtD. B.
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
VUv141946
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
U. S. .
fico; Marshall, Marianas, Bagalinas, e
hisphano-dmencanafuoron sendida
por Spain a Germabry ; y, a termisor
de a. S. A:; gupse ibenificaron 
dande ejerdito, y armadas  Eara
i hiliehonfuprtes ayudasa
NILED

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.84)
-2
dos ellas) y otwar, grander erte-
siones de teemus cantinentales.
a U. S. A. le hacen fatta. Fuera
de cualquier asunto ke cavieter
militarttes serin mucy sitites,
desamollaydo comerso com ufla.
 tenignde asi unas bases de buons
la industsia amenkang.
Ademgs por miltiples mrones
de indole
Pirque ya ee hiro una pilleria
en 1918 Veediendelas al retrasado Ja-
las manos vacial a H. . A.,que
emviaron miles de se hijoz amo
Respreterarent: Rapilb. En

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.96)
DATB: 30 J 194
From R.W.Barnott
sUBJECT:U.K. Statement on U.S.'Occupation Costs Proposal
1. Mr. Graves, of the British Embassy, made to the Far Eastern Commission
on January 29 the attached statement dealing with the U.K. interpretation of
the FEC decision setting up the revolving fund for occupied Japan. He had
given me advance warning that this statement would be made. Therefore I
prepared the attached statement for General McCoy to read in reply. General
McCoy's reply wms cleared with McDiarmid and General Snow.
2 Attachments
-3048

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
In the view of the U.I. delegatiem pare. 2 (e) of vmc-msp is at
varianee with the polioy decision taken in FBC-032/26.
In para. 16 (c) of FEC-032/26 there is a previsiem that steeks ef
gold, silver, other precious metals, precious stomes and jewels of elearly
established Japanese ownership ultimately should be disposed of as reparatioms.
This, in our opinion, is a controlling phrase.
At the time the policy mas passed General MoCoy stated fer record im
the minutes that the understanding of the U.S. Government ms that the dispe-
sition as reparations of stocks of gold, silver, etc. referred to in para. 16
(c) should be in accordance with the following provision of FmC-0l4/9 Basie Pest-
Surrender Poliey for Japans-
"The reparations shall be in such a form as would not endanger the ful-
fillment of the programme of demilitarisation of Japan and whish
would not prejudice the defraying of the cost of the cceupatiom
and the maintenance of a minimum civilian standard of living."
It is however the view of my Government that para. 16 of Fmc-032/26 - a peliey
of a date la ter than the Basic Post-Susrender Poliey - must be read as a
special applieation of FBC-014/9 Part IV (4) and that since the two dosmmemts
are on the same basis, being both records of agreement by the Far Easterm
Commission, the decision in para. 16 must be assumed to have been taken by the
Far Eastern Commission with Part IV (4) in mind and on the basis that the
allocation of this gold to reparations did pot in fact prejudise the questiem
of meeting the costs of occupation.
A somewhat similar example is found in the taking of surplws Japamese
industrial equipment as reparations, in regard to which there is agreememt
that this does pet in fact prejudiee the payment of occupatiom costs.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
I wish to thank you, Mr. Graves, for drawing attention to the
importance of the policy proposals contained in FEC 288 which will now be
discussed in detail by the Reparations Committee. I would like to make
this coument, however, on your statement. The United States Government
approved paragreph 16.c. of FEC O32/25 on the understanding that the
disposition of gold, silver, etc., as reparetions should be in accordance
with FEC Ol4/9, which is the Far Eastern Commission's Besic Post-Surrender
Policy for Japen. Since that is the Basic Policy of the Far Eastern
Commission, we consider its terms to be controlling unless amended.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF STAFF, UNITED STATES ARMY
WASHINGTON 2S, D. C.
9 February 1948
Mr. Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State
FEB 1 2 1940
for Occupied Areas
New State Building
MR: SALTÉMAN
Washington 25, D. C.
EPARTMENT OF STATE
Files
Central
OC/R894.0146/2-948
This Document Must Be Returned
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
Reference is made to your letter of 26 January 1948, wherein request
is made for data on United States ocoupation costs in Japan for use of the
United States Delegation to the Far Eastern Commission.
While the Department of the Army has in its possession a roport on
occupation costs prepared as of 30 S9ptember 1947 by the General Headquar-
ters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, it is not a complete report,
partioularly with respeot to the two items in which your letter expressed
speoial interest, namely, expenditures incurred for imports into Japan to
prevent disease and unrest, and expenditures for maintenance and repatri
tion of civilians and Japaneso military personnel including expenses
incurred in returning Japanese nationals to Japan, removal of foreign
nationals from Japan, and transfer from points outside of Japan of person
displaced by Japanese aggrecsion.
It is anticipated that comprehensive data on costs of ocoupation in
CSBM
the respeotive areas will be available about 30 June l948. However, to
meet the immediate requirements of the Far Eastern Commission for data on
the items of paramount interest to it, listed below are costs covering
supplies and serviccs furnished through 30 June 1947 to prevent disease
and unrest and to accomplish the purposes of the ocoupation, which are
charged against the appropriation, "Government and Relief in Occupied
X
Areas", (GARIOA). In addition, estimated figures of funds earmarked for
Japan from the Fiscal Year 1948 GARIOA Appropriation, inoluding the
oarmarked portion of the deficienoy appropriation, are furnished:
ITEM
V-J Day - 30 Jun 47
FY 1948 (est)
Charges against GARIOA and
$672,000,000
$373,400,000
Department of the Army
expenditures prior to
1 Jul 46

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
The total cost of repatriation of the various categories of nationals
onumerated in your letter are not available in the Department of the Army.
However, efforts are being made to obtain suoh data from the Far Bast
Command and upon receipt will be forwarded to you.
Sincerely yours,
GeongeSd,
GEORGE J. RICHARDS
Major Goneral, GSC
The Army Comptroller
2

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.91)
A·S
File
FEB 1 2 1948
MR. SALTZMAN
9 Pobruary 1948
Mr. Charles B. Saltsman
File
Assistant Secretary of State
fer Oseupied Areas
Now State Building
not:
Washington 25, D. 0.
to
/18/48
Dear Mr. Saltsman:
Referenee is mde to your letter of 26 Jamuary 194s, whereim reguest
is mde for data on United States eeeupatiom eests in Japen fer use of the
United States Delegation to the Far Basterm Gemmissiem.
While the Department of the Army has in its pessessien a repert e
ters, Supreme Cemmander for the Allied Pewers, it is not a complete repert.
partieularly with respeet to the two items in whieh yeur letter expressed
spesial interest, mamely, expemditures ineurred fer imperte inte Japem to
prevest disease amd unrest, and expenditures fer maiatememee end repetrie-
tion of civilians and Japanese military persenmel ineluding epenses
ineurred in returaing Japasese nationals to Japan, remeval ef fereige
natiemals frem Jepan, and transfer from points outside of Jepen of pereems
displased by Japamese aggression.
It is antieipated that comprohensive date on cests of cceupatiem in
the reepeetive areas will be available about s0 Jume 19ss. Eewever, to
meet the immediate requiremente of the Far Bastera Gemmissien fer date en
the items of paramount interest te it, listed below are eeste eovering
supplies and serviees furaisbed through s0 Jume 1967 to preveat disease
and wmrest and to seeemplish the puspeses of the cooupetden, wleh ere
aharged againot the apprepriation, "Geveramont and Relief in Gooupled
Areas", (aanioa). In addition, estimated figares af fande carmaried for
Jepan frem the Piseal Year 194s GaRI0a Apprepriation, imeluding the
earmarked pertion of the doficieney epprepriation, are feraished:
V-J Day - 80 Jum 47
 1000 (00)
Gharges against GaRIos and
$672,000,000
$878,400,009
Bepartmont of the Aray
expenditures prier to
1 3u1 46
4915

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.82)
The total eest of repatriatien of the variome estegorlee of matlemals
emmerated in your lotter are net available in the Bepartmone of the Anuy.
Eowever, offerte are belang made to ebtain ouek date frem the Par Beot
Gemmand and wpem reeeipt will be forwarded to you.
Bineorely youre,
()
GSORGE J. RIGZANDS
Major Gomerel, ese
The Army Gemptreller

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.96)
A-S
File
FEB 12 1948
MR SALTZMAN
9 February 1948
Mr. Charles B. Saltsman
Assistant Seoretary of State
for Oooupied Areas
Now State Building
Washington 25, D. C.
to
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
Referonoe is made t; your letter of 26 January 194s, wherein request
is ade for data on Un ted States oooupation oosts in Japan for use of the
United States Delegation to the Far Eastern Cemission.
While the Departmont of the Army has in its possession a report on
ocoupation costs prepared as of 30 September 1947 by the Gemeral Meadquar-
ters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, it is not a complete report,
partioularly with respect to the two items in which your letter expressed
special interest, namely, expenditures inourred for imports into Japem te
prevent disease and unrest, and expenditures for maintemance and repatrie-
tion of oivilians and Japanese military personnel inoluding expenses
ineurred in returning Japanese nationals to Japan, rmoval of foreigm
nationals from Japan, and transfer from points outside of Japan of persons
displaoed by Japanese aggression.
It is anticipated that oomprehensive data on costs of oooupation in
the respective areas will be available about 30 June l94s. Mowever, to
meet the immediate requirements of the Far Bastern Commission for data 
the items of paramount interest to it, listed below are costs covering
supplies and sorvioes furnished through 30 June 1947 to prevent disease
and unrest and to acoomplish the purposes of the ceeupation, whieh are
oharged against the appropriation, "Government and Relief in Oceupied
Areas", (GaRioA). In addition, estimated figures of funds earmarked for
Japan from the Fisoal Year 194s GARI0A Appropriation, ineluding the
earmarked portion of the deficienoy appropriation, are frrmished:
ITEM
V-J Day - 30 Jun 47
17 1968 (ost)
Chargee againat GARIOA and
$672,000,000
$873,400,000
Department of the Army
exponditures prior to
1 Jul 46
4915

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
BEGET
. FE - Mr. ButteMorth
DATE: January
TO
FROM : NA - Mr. B1obop
SUBJECT:
In reply to your request for a memorandum on the subjees
of how SCaP or the Us Government could prevent Ohine or
Russia from now becoming one of the ocoupying powers, the
following comment 1s offered:
The Allled "character" of the'occupation 1s stated
1n the "United States Initial Post-Surrender Poliey for
Japan" in paragraph 1, "Military Occupation", of Part II,
"Allied Authority", as follows:
". . . The occupation shall have the character of an
operation in behalr of the principal allied powers
acting in the interests of the United Natione at
war with Japan. For that reason, participation of
the forces of other nations that have taken a leading
part in the war against Japan will be weloomed and
expected." (Underscoring added.)
It 1s stated in the FEC "Basio Post-Surrender Poliey
for Japan", which is the last directive on this subjeet,
in Part II, "Allied Authority", paragraph 1, "Military
Occupation":
an
"The occupation shall have the charaoter of
an operation in behalf of the Powers that have parti-
cipated in the war against Japan. The principle of
participation in the occupation of Japan by forees
of these nations is affirmed. The occupation forees
will be under the command of a Supreme Commander
designated by the United States.
If we can get Department agreement to rescind the
Basio Us Post-Surrender directive,which was objected to
by Mr. Thorp,we shall then be bound only by the FEO
directive which merely affirms the principle of partioipa-
tion in the occupation of Japan by forces of those powers
S
at war with Japen and we would no longer be bound by the
statement that forces of other nations "will be welcomed
and expected". In any event I believe that the United Sta
Government
DCR - CLADMS UNIT
BECRET
10
Anal.
Am
046094

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Gevernment and sCAp can take the position that the
of Allied participation after almost three years os
occupation has already been established and that for
or more powers at this late date to attempt to inereamo
participation would be impracticable and undesirable and
would place an impossible administrative burden on the
Supreme Commander. I believe that we can reasonably
maintain that the principle of participation in the ooou-
pation 1s met by the numbers o? Allied foroes, inoluding
Chinese and Soviet Guard foroes, now in Japan.
If the United States recognizes a Communist or
Communist-coalition government in China we could hardly
prevent that government from replacing present Chinese
in Japan with others of their own choosing, but I do
belleve that on the above grounds we could refuse to allow
them to increase their representation and could, in faot,
through SCAP administrstive action, deorease their numbers.
There are, of course, many onerous administrative require-
ments which could be mposed by SCAp to discourage both
the Chinese and the Suviete, but it would be desirable to
prevent at the outset any increase in their numbers.
SECRET
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
FE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, February 18, 1949.
No. 109
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Subject: Conditions ir. Okinawa.
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose a copy
of a memorandum dated January 27, 1949, prepared by Vice Consul
Harry I. PFEIFFER on the subject of the present status of the
Occupation of Okinawa. Mr. Pfeiffer has made frequent trips to
Okinawa in connection with his duties at the Consulate General
in Yokohama and is well acquainted with conditions there.
The enclosed memorandum briefly describes the physical char
acteristics of Okinawa, as well as present political and economic
conditions, and contains conclusions based on observation and
conversations with military government and local officials. The
memorandum summarizes the situation by stating that the American
Occupation of Okinawa has done little to assist the people and
has done much to alienate their good will, and that the lack of
success of the Occupation to date seems due in large part to in-
decision as to the ultimate disposition of the islands.
CS/E
Enclosure:
P1 4 00
January 27, 1949 by
ViceConsul Harry E. Pfeiffer.
360
R
Pinn:gC
CCNFII
11
Original and Osalid to the Departsant
grw.
atle

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to despateh no, 109 dated
February 18, 1949 from the Offiee of
the United States Politieal Adviser
at Tokyo, on the subjest: "Conditions
in Okinawe."
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department use only)
Yokohama, January 27, 1949.
MIDMORANDUM
To:
U. Alexis Johneon, Consul General
From:
Harry F. Pfeiffer, Vice Consul
A. GENERAL INTRODUCTION.
1. Appearance af Okimws. The first, forceful impression of
Okinawe is its barrenness. The southern third of the island, the
center of population and location of most of the arable land, is
composed of rolling hills, interspersed with jagged coral crags.
With the exception of occasional stands of scrub pine, there are
no trees and the land that is not cultivated is overgrown with wild
grass. The northemtwo-thirds of the island is composed of rugged
terrain, largely umtillable and uninhabited. This southern pertion
FW
of the island was also the center of resistance during the inwasion
and the degree of devastation was nearly total. The skeleton of
Naha and the rusted landing barges that still litter the beaches in-
dicate the fury of battle. The houses of the Okimawans are general-
ly clustered in smll villages and consist of huts built with
894.0146
thatched roofs, walled with rusted galvanised iron, canvas, or mis-
cellaneous debris. The mortared, tiled roofed houses that were
characteristic before the war are practically non-existent. Occupe-
tion personnel are housed almost exclusively in quonset or Butler
huts, similar mits also being utilised as offices, repair shops,
hospitals, et cetera. With the exception of several recently oon-
structed barracks and a few concrete dependent housing units, there
are no permanent structures on the island. The myriad of "turtle-
backed tombs" are practically the only reminder of the ancient
civilisation and culture of this island that otherwise gives the ap-
pearanee of a semi-aivilised tropical backwater.
2. Charester of Okimemmn. Although collectively the Okinawans
tend to be somewhat shorter and stockier then the Japasese, and
perhaps are a bit darker complexioned and have slightly different
facial features, as individuals the Japanese generally agree that
they canmot be distinguished by appearanee frem a native of the heme
islands. Stamdard Japanese has been taught in the schools for mere
than fifty years and is umiversally wed. Accent and collequialisme
are slightly different from the Japanese spekem in Tekyo, but met
mere so than Japanese speken in morthern Honsku or Kyushe. The
meager reseurees and overpopulatien ef the island have cenditiened
the Oklnesen esenemieally to a low stamderd of living. Cemeegeently,
he is weually indestrions and thrifty. The inealarity and depemdent
status of the island have served alse to establish a sharaster of
desility and subeerviemee to autherity. Besame of his native pover-
ty and low standard of living, he sometimes hes been treated con-
desendingly by Japesese or mstives ef ether ceustries to which be

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
-2-
migrated. Generally, Japanese feeling toward the Okinawan seems
to be that he is sort of a poorer relation and not quite a real
Japanese. The treatment seems to be much more cordial though then
that extended to Formosans or Koreans. The Okinawan, aware of the
antiquity of his own civilisation and oulture, has resented the
dominance and condescension of the Japanese. This feeling may
serve to explain the goodwill with which he at first aceepted the
American ccupation.
3. Population of Okinam. As supplied by Military Goverment
statistics the population of Okinawe stood at 549,630 as of August
31, 1948. This compares with a 1940 census count of 435,681. This
large increase in population, combined with the fact that 17% of
the arable land is presently used by the occupation forces, has
further decreased the self-sufficiency of the Okimawans, so that at
present from 25% to 30% of the food consumed mst be imported. This
despite the fact that land previously planted in sugar cane, the
pre-war money crop, has been used for the raising of sweet petatoes
and rice, the dietary staples.
4. Typheons. In evaluating the economy of Okinawa, attention
should be given to the great destruction wrought by typhoons. It
is estimated that from twelve to forty-five typhoons strike Okinawe
annually. An average of three to six pass directly over the island
causing maximum damage. Military Government sources estimte, for
example, that a typhoon which struck Okinawa the early part of
October 1948 caused the total destruction of 6,274 dwellings and
seriously damaged 9,57? more. It was also estimated that 32% of
the sweet potato production, 36% of the rice crop, 40% of the sugar
cane, and 50% of the vegetable crop were dammged on Okinawe.
B. GENERAL CONDITION F OKINAWANS.
1. Housing. As has been mentioned before, there is very
little adequate housing on Okinawa. This is due in part to the
lack of tile, lumber, and mortar. There is a limited local produc-
tion of these materials, however, and for those who might obtain
them, there is a further complication in erecting a permanent house.
Records of land title were completely destroyed during hostilities
and no steps have been taken as yet to re-establish title. Land
that is presently being farmed has been assigmed to the individual
tenants by the mayors of the various villages who in turn have been
alletted certain aereages by Military Government. Since large
treets of land are presently being wtilised by the ccupatien, the
lawful owmers sither have beem eompletely deprived of land, fer
whish they are net cempemssted and which under present conditiens
comstdtutes the only thing of real value, or else have beem assigmed
land to which they have mo logal right, in tarm depriving the legal
omer of hie land. Cems equently, mamy persene are farming land to
which they have no legal right and which they will have to veeste
e purehase at such time as title is re-estahlished. Under sush
cenditiens, they are wnilling to crest a permsment heuse.
Military Geverament efficers indisated, in this cemmeetien,
that they mmst engage in a constant squabble with variome military
wito

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
Emolosure to Tekye's No. 109,
Fobruary 18, 1949.
-3 -
units on Okinawe in an effort to obtain the release fer resettle-
ment by Okinawans of various lands assigned to these units fer
which they have no immediate use but are unedlling to release.
There has been also inaugurated recently a policy that will
have widespread detrimental effects on the economic rebabilitation
of Okinawe and also increase to a great extent the daily incem-
veniences with which the Okinawan is already so heevily overberdened.
As in all other tropical or semi-tropical areas, malaria is eme a
the prevalent diseases on Okinawe. In order to lessen the chanse
of contagion of this disease by members of the occupation, it has
recently been directed that there will be no new housing erested
by the Okinawans within a one mile radius of any occupation im-
stallation. This serves, in effect, to close completely the sesth-
ern third of the island to further resettlement. This ineludes
such centers of population as Naha and Shuri. Thus, if a persom is
presently allotted land for farming that has been released im this
ares, he is confronted with the problem of commuting daily frem a
great distance, transportation facilities being practically mem-
existent. The effect of this policy on the economic rehabilitatiem
of the island my be gathered from the following passage quoted
from the September 1948 summary of Military Government activities
in the Ryakyus written prior to the adoption of this policy:
"It is anticipated that the former city of Naha will ense
again become the business and economic center of Okinawe and,
until such time as resettlement of the unused portion of the
former city can be accomplished, much of the business and
economic rehabilitation on Okinawe wdll be at a standstill."
2. Clothing. Practically all of the inhabitants of Okimamm,
men, women and children, are dressed exclusively in converted Ammy
uniforms. These are sold along with other Army supplies of an
essential nature in Army stores located about the island. These
supplies are sold at a token price to persons employed by the Army
or the Okinawan Civilian Administration, and at a higher price to
others. In view of the mild climate, clothing requirements are
not great and the people seem to be much better provided for im this
reepect than they are in the other basic essentials.
3. Lood. The Military Government report for Ootober indieates
that of the subsistenee consumed in the Ryukyus for that month, 31%
was imported and 69% was locally produced. Indigenous food somsumed
consists principally of sweet potatoes supplemented by seme meet,
principally pork, fish, rice, and vegetables. Imported food eem-
sists principally of flour, canned goods, dried peas, and riee. The
system followed on Okinawe is to distribute most of the imperted
food to persons mployed by the eccupation or the Okimawan Civiliam
Admimistration and their families, simce other persons are engaged
primeipally in subsistence farming and sapply their ewm meeds.
Offieers in Militery Gévermment stated that ceiling priees en feed
and supplies had been removed recently and this had served te re-
duse eeasiderably the blackmarket astivities. Persems en fimed
salaries are prineipally employed by the cccupatien er the Civilian
Admimistratien, and foed and clething are furaiehed for tekem
amounte. The metually dependent status of the sthers have estab
liehed priees at a ressemable level. Officials in the Okimemm
Givilien Admimietratien indicated that while they falt the peeple
were existing at better tian a starvatien lovel, they did met feel
that the majerity were being adequstely fod.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclesure to Tekye's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
4. Wages. The following scale of wages applies to persons
employed by the occupation, the principal fixed salary group:
Heavy labor
- ¥500 per month
Office worker
- ¥300 - ¥400 per month
Skilled or
professional mployee - ¥600 - *1000 per month
Housemaid
- ¥200 - ¥250 per month
Although the rate of exchange on Okinawa is set at ¥50 to $1.00, it
will be noted that these rates are correspondingly much lower then
those paid to similar categories in Japan where the average house-
maid, for example, mployed by the occupation receives from 4000
to ¥5000 per month.
5. Gov ernment. Okinawe is governed by proclamations and
directives issued by the Military Government. Where not subee-
quently changed or amended by the Military Government, Japamese
civil and criminal codes effective prior to the American invesiom
are still valid. The Military Government is assisted in the govern-
ment of Okinawa by an Okinawan Civilian Administration, appointed by
the Military Government and headed by a governor, Koshin Shikiya.
This administration assists in the enforcement of policies set by
the Military Government and establishes administrative procedures of
a minor nature.
The only elections held to date have been elections for mayers
of the various villages. A representative assembly has yet to be
elected.
6. Basic Esengmy. The pre-war economy of Okinawe was basieal-
ly agricultural with sugar cane established as the money crop. In
1939 it was estimated that farm families constituted 75% of all fami-
lies in the prefecture and that 65% of the farmers tilled land that
they owmed, averaging l.6 acres. In that same year it was esti-
mated that 60% of the farming households cultivated sugar cane as
the prineipal money crop and it was grown on approximately ene-feurth
of the cultivated acreage. Okinawe, in 1939, grew 1,193,255 teme,
valwed at ¥14,100,685.
It has been the policy of the ocoupation to mke Okinawe
as self-sufficient in food products as pessible and therefere the
asreage that was formerly devoted to sugar cane has been replanted
in feod staples, prinsipally sweet potatoes.
The Nilitery Goverament report for Octeber 194s statee that
the tetal member of Olkimawens gaiafally employed numbered 213,021.
Of this member 41, 412 were employed by agemeies of the Uaited States
Gevermmomt. Although no break-dewm is furmished as to the type of
oesuppkiem purssed by the remainder, it is presumed that the vest
majerity are engaged in subsistence farming. Only 1,l89 Okimewmas
were listed as umempleyed, se it appeare that the tetal laber peten-
tial is being wtilised.
Indsstries are prestieally men-sxistent in Okinese. What
little there is is deveted to foed presessing, metalweriing mme-
facture of building materials, ete., in an attempt to met leeal
requiremente.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tekyo's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
- 5 -
Some ceramics and woven products are mnu actured for local use and
sale in gift shops to occupation personnel.
Outside of food and supplies received from the United States,
there is practically no export or import trade. Small quamtities
of rock phosphate are shipped to Japan and prineipally fertiliser
is imported from Japan in return.
7. Public Information and Recrestiom. As af 1940, it is re-
ported that there were six daily newspapers published in Mahe and
in addition six weekly papers and twelve monthly publieations were
printed in the Ryukyus. Some newspapers published in the Japanese
home islands also circulated in the Ryakyws.
At present there are two newspapers, the Urume Shiame and
the Okinaan Time, printed weekly in Okimewe. These are small ome-
sheet publications, containing mminly articles on local events er
activities of the Military Government. They contain little inferme-
tion dealing with world affairs. Newspapers printed in Japan do not
cireulate in Okinewa. No mgasines or other periodicals are present-
ly printed in Okinawe, and such publications are not imported frem
Japan.
The only radio station operating on Okinawe is an Army sta-
tion broadcasting program for consumption by occupation persomel.
Officials of Military Government stated that there is presently
under construction a station designed to broadcast programs in Jape-
nese for reception by the Okinawans. It is not clear, however,
how they propose to overcome the difficulties presented by the fact
that the Okinawans own very few receivers and the villages are net
supplied with electricity. Army personnel stated that the electric-
ity supplied to their quarters was of such low voltage that they
frequently had difficulty picking up the local Army station.
Before the war, Naha constituted not only the business and
industrial center of the island, but also the oultural and reere-
ational center as well. With its destruction the Okimawans were de-
prived of a readily available escape from a humdrum and insular
existence. They express the feeling now of mental stagnation and
complete severance from the outside world.
C. GENERAL CONDITION OF OCCUPYING FORCES.
1. Herale. Okinawe under ideal circumstances would be trying
for an eighteen-month assignment; under present conditioms it is
hardly bearable. Invariably all persomel, both military and
civiliam, seem to be interested primsipally in their date of de-
parture. Housing conditioms seem to be partly respomsible fer this
feeling, particularly fer single persoms or married persens um-
aceempemied by their families; but I believe a general feeling of
enmeui eceasi emed by a mumber of fasters contribute to an even
grester degree to this feeling of dissetisfaction. A feeling on
the part ef the mere ambitioue and capable persenmel engeged in the
admimistration of the island of being completely imeffectmal; the
rigid
CONRIDENTLAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
-6-
rigid military control on all aspects of life to an unneceseary
degree; the limited recreational facilities and infrequency of
leaves away from the island, these all contribute to the general
dissatisfaction. The complete destruction everywhere evident and
the wretched condition of the native population also cause a general
feeling of depression and result in there being "no place to go,"
"nothing to do."
There seemed to be a general consensus among personnel who
had been assigned to the island for a long period and were fully
familiar with all aspects of the problem that this condition is not
inevitably so, that much could be done to improve morale.
2. Type of Personnel. I only had an opportunity to observe
and was mainly interested in personnel mployed in Military Govern-
ment. Although there are of course exceptions, in gemeral it was
my observation that personnel employed in Military Government both
military and civilian, are not particularly competent ner qualified
for the positions that they hold. I am supported in this belief
by officers of Military Government and other consular officers who
have periodically visited Okinawa. Few of the personnel seem to
have an adequate understanding of the history of the island, char-
acter of its people, nor functioning of its economy. This is all
too readily reflected in the present condition of the Okinawans.
In view of the present low morale existing on the island
it is of course difficult to retain compatent personnel. It was
also asserted that not infrequently undesirable personnel would be
dumped by higher commands. Present civilian personnel seem to be
attracted to the island by salaries that are many times over the
amount that they might be able to qualify for in the United States.
A few non-career Army officers who have established themselves in
responsible positions by virtue of seniority periodically "axtend"
to avoid reduction in rank or authority on return to the United
States.
3. Attitude Towerd Okinaans. Herein, I believe, lies one of
the gravest dangers to the success of the American occupatien and
an attitude that portends ill for the future. If the indifferemse
and eondescension exhibited toward the Okinawans by the oseupying
forces has not already resulted in the complete aliemation ef their
good will it will inevitably do so.
Most of the American personnel, other than Military Gevera-
ment, could hardly be said to have any attitude sinse they are caly
vaguely aware of the presence of the lecal inkabitants, "Goeks,"
and are net even curious about them. Although difficult w vokdeme,
this is wnderstandable in view ef the presemt miserable cenditien
of the Okinawams which hardly cleaks them with any aura of interest
and the rigid military regalatiems that place prestieally all aress
"asf limita" ameept immediate quarters and mmin reeds, thes alimi-
mating the pessibility af establishing any comem ground.
The attitude af Military Gevermment is mere difficult to
aderetand. Here the "matives," wed in the semse af semd-eivilised
poople,
CONRDNEIELAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclesure to Tokyo's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
- 7 -
people, are treated kindly enough, but with a gondescension that
must outdo the attitude of the Japanese that proved to be so of-
fensive to the Okinawans. This attitude stems, no doubt, frem the
apparent belief on the part of Military Government officers that
their function is to govern an American military bese and prevest
civil unrest. Conciliation of the local inhabitants is not required.
Whatever the ultimate disposition of the Ryukyus my be, this seeme
to be a shortsighted policy.
D. CONVERSATIONS WITH MILITARY GOVERNMENT FFICERS.
1. Relations With Higher Command. Military Government effieers
stated that they felt that the removal of the Ryukyus from the
Philippines Ryukyus Command and their establishment as a separate
command under Commander-in-Chief Far East had greatly facilitated
efficient functioning. The establishment of a Ryukyus Military
Government Section in GHD, CINCFE, under Brigadier General Weekerling
has served to give them a friend at court. However, they complained
of a policy of duality pursued by varfous sections of GHQ concerm-
ing the relatfonship of Japan and the Ryukyus whereby it was either
directly connected or completely separated in accordance with the
problem under discussion. They also expressed the usual complaint
of a lower command: that RYCOM is often forgotten by CINCFE and that
MG's problems are not understood by RYCOM.
2. Change in Command. Major General Eagles has recently re-
placed Brigadier General Hayden as the commanding officer of the
Ryakyus Command. Although this had reduced friction with the Air
Force units on the island, since General Eagles is equal in rank to
the Air Force commanding general, it has not facilitated the work of
Military Government. General Eaglee doss not seem to be as syppa-
thetic to the problems of Hilitary Government as Generel Haydem. It
was pointed out, for instance, that the aforementioned policy of re-
stricting resettlement to control malaria was approved hertly after
General Eagles assumed command, whereas it was felt that General
Hayden would not have approved a polioy so detrimental to the inter-
ests of the Okinawans.
The command of Military Government has also been changed
recently, Colonel Green succeeding Colonel Craig. This was general-
ly agreed among the officers of Military Government to cometitate a
substantial improvement. Colonel Green seems willing at least to
explore the possibilities of improving the general condition of the
Okimawans and bracing the economy.
3. Electieme. As has been previously stated, no elestiems
have yet been held for the establishment of a represemtative assem-
bly. Offieers in the legal department of Nilitary Gevermmeat ave
beem pressing for sush alestiems and attach great impertamse to the
meed fer them. They peint cut, fer exmmple, that the cemstruetiem
of mow heusing by the Okinewame is being delaped by the fest that
land titles have met beem re-established. They are relustant to
arbitrarily deslde a mmtter et sush far-reeching impertasee by the
issuamee ef a preelammtien by the Nilitary Gevermmest simse they
feel that it weald have mo intermatiemel validity at seeh sime as
the eseupation is terminated. An dlested assenhly is therefere in-
déeated to mest mecessary legislatien for the determinstien af lend
It 

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure to Tekye's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
It was stated that Military Government has already pre-
posed holding elections for a representative assembly, but that
the Ryukyus Command Headquarters had opposed them based on G-2
reports of the strength of the Commanist Party in Okimawe. It is
the feeling in Military Government, however, that the Okimawems
are so exhausted by the great effort presently required to eke out
a livelihood that they are not politically ∞nscious at all and
doubt whether any organised political parties of any importance
exist on Okinawa at present.
If one may be allowed the observation based on experience
in other countries that the commumist seed grows best in the soil
of civil discontent, I believe there would be little doubt that it
would flourish under conditions presently existing in Okinawe if
once sown.
4. Currmcy Conversion. Prior to July 16, 1948, both Jape-
nese imperial yen and type "B" military yen were legal tender in
the Ryukyus. In order to separate the economy of the Ryukyus from
the Japanese economy and overcome the obvious difficulty of maim-
taining a ¥50 to $1.00 rate in the Ryukyus while a 270 to $1.00
was established in Japan and the same currency was in se, a
special proclamation was issued by the Military Government om Juse
26, 1948, ordering the conversion of both currencies between July
16 and 20. Another proclamation was thereupon issued on July 21,
1948 establishing type "B" military yen as the sole legal tender
for the Ryakyus and the Japanese imperial yen was redeemed one for
one. The ¥50 to $1.00 rate of exchange was mmintained.
I could not obtain a clear explanation as to who guaranteed
this issue of type "B" military yen, but it was suggested by some
members of Military Government that the Japanese Government was re-
sponsible for its backing.
5. Propoeed Amy Payment Plan. There is presently under cen-
sideration a plan to have the Aray make real payment for serviees
presently being received from Okinawan employees. This plam is
based on the premise that the only existing commodity of Okimawe at
present is the potential labor of its people and that it is net fair
to wtilise this labor without making payment. This plam is presemt-
ly treated confidentially and I could not readily obtain details en
its proposed operation. It seems to envisage the follewing, hewever:
As has been previously noted, approximately 4l,000 Okimawems are
empleyed by ageneies of the United States Govemment im Okimaws.
This is appreximately 20ß of the total number of Okinawans saimfully
mpleyed. Payment for these services are presently made frem the
bettemless barrel of military yen. Altheugh this yem serves as a
matiam of barter an the fntand, its real value is limited by the
supply af clething and ether articles in the Aray steres. The pee-
pesed plan is to deposit 81. 00 in a spesial fund fer overy 850 paid
11
fer serviees reselved. This money weuld then be wed to perebege
u260
téen hes nt beam grented ae yet. Peratand on hee beam reoed ved, heas-
over, fer the aapendstare af appeeniantely tiee, eee mt has been

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclesure to Tekyo's No. 109,
February 18, 1949.
- 9 -
6. Officiale of Okinawn Civilian Admdaistratien. Military
Government officers stated that they had difficulty in persmeding
ranking officials of the Okinawan Civilian Administration to re-
tain their positions, particularly Governer Shikiya. This arises
from the fact that the present ocoupancy of these positioms amouats
to future political suicide since such officials are required at
present to enforce umpopular directives issued by the Military
Government. They are consequently lax in pressing for the celles-
tion of taxes, etc.
E. CONVERSATIONS WITH OKINAWAN CIVILIAN ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS.
1. General Impressions and Topice Covered. The min impree-
sion I obtained from my conversation with Governor Shikiye and
other members of the Okinawan Civilian Administration was that af
their feeling completely ineffectual. When I would seek their
opinion of some aspeet of the Okinawen problem they would reply
that Military Government proposed such and such or that they did
not know what Military Government planned to do about that. They
seemed completely to be taken aback and somewhat flustered whem I
replied that I would like to know what action they thought best
under the circumstances. It seemed that their advice had beem
sought so seldom, and they falt that if their advice were seaght, it
would be so little respected, that they had not bothered to fermm-
late any definite course of action on the principal problems cem-
fronting the Okimwan people.
In discussing the political situation, or rather lack there-
of, they stressed the need and desirability of holding eleetioms fer
a representative assembly and stated that while there were twe er
three political parties at present in Okinawe they were extremely
small and existed more or less in name only. They also stated that
there was no communist party in existence in Okinawa so far as they
knew.
In the course of the conversation the Governor made the re-
mark that no matter how fervently the Okinawans may desire independ-
enee, the economic peverty of Okinawe prevented it frem ever besem-
ing truly independent. He stressed the dependence of Okinawm upem
the United States and expressed the hope that the Okinawans would
not be forsaken by the American people.
F. SUMARY.
It seeme to me that to date the American ocoupation of Okinesm
has done little to assist the people of Okimawe in rebailding their
coustry that was so completely devastated by the invasiem, but has
dene mesh to aliemate their good will which ceuld have beem se eesi-
Ly gained. It is true that large sume have beem expended to foed
and to clothe the Okimawans, but it is wareasemable te expest them
to be settafied and centimmally gratefal fer reesiving enly the
berest eseestials necessary fer survival. I think the emphesis
shoald be chamged, if pessible, freminbe grasting ef a dele to
rendering assiotamse in the resonstrestion of the country and the
establiokmont af as atable an esenony as the peer resourees and
overpepalatien of the ialand permlt. This will met be an eaey tesk

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
Enelosure to Tekyo's No. 109,
Fobruary 18, 1949.
- 10 -
and it should be recognised from the start that the Ryukyes will
always constitute an economic liability offset by the advantages
of its strategic location.
The failure of the occupation to date, it sems, is due in
large measure to the apparent indecision as to the ultimate disposi-
tion of the islands. The immediate Army officers ooncerned have
been left to seek their owm way and have floundered in the face of
the large commitments required and lack of a specific policy to be
pursued.
It should be noted too, I believe, that the Okinawans have more
than tenuous ties with Japan. Thedr own history and culture closely
parallel that of Japan and fifty years of intense and effective
Japanisation has further narrowed the gap. They were essentially
good Japanese and the samenesses greatly outnumber any differenses
they might have with the Japanese. The eventual economic integre-
tion of the Ryukyus with Japan seems to be a prerequisite; the
political integration, desirable.
H.F.P.
CONEIRLTIAL
