894.002 Political Affairs., Japan, Cabinet. Ministry., January 15, 1940 - December 20, 1944 (File 1477)
ID: 894.002-1477   Pages: 268   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.002-political-affairs-japan-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
121651
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FE
DIVISION OF FAREASTERN AFFAIRS
F SI
Janu
15, 1940.
Division of
JAN·17 1940
F EASTERN AFFAIRS
S:
NOTED
JAN 17 1940
Mr. 6ecretary.
Se ectcont of Stato
The designation of Admiral Yonai as Premier of Japan
has probably been prompted partly by the need of having in
that position at the present time a strong figure who can
stand between opposing factions in the Japanese army.
8
Recent reports indicate strong differences of opinion within
394.002/411
the Japanese army as to the methods which Japan should adopt
in its China policy. The selection of Admiral Yonai serves
as a means of bridging these differences of opinion, and,
moreover, indicates, in view of the record of the Admiral,
that a cautious and moderate policy will be followed.
Admiral Yonai enjoys general respect and admiration.
2
Born an aristocrat, he has pursued the naval career with
success and without becoming entangled in political issues
C
He has kept himself clear of extreme movements within the
42
Japanese navy or the Japanese army and on several occasions
when the country was shaken by sharp differences within the
military services his moderation and equilibrium have served
well.
Admiral Yonai has consistently opposed Japan's
entering upon a close alliance with Germany and Italy. On
one occasion he went out of his way in conversation with
Ambassador Grew

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
121652
-2-
Ambassador Grew to state his firm opposition to any such
trend. Admiral Yonai has seen considerable service both
in Germany and in Russia and his consistent opposition
to Japan's strengthening its political ties with the
central powers is therefore significant.
Press reports indicate that there will return to
office a number of statesmen who were in previous cabi-
nets. It is therefore not likely that there will be any
marked changes in the policy which Japan has been pursu-
ing for the last two and a half years. It is also note-
worthy that, according to the press, the new cabinet
will include a stronger representation from the political
parties than any cabinet in recent years. This has
probably been prompted by the need of countering growing
publio disoontent.
While it cannot be anticipated that the advent of
the new cabinet will bring about any dramatic changes
for the better in Japanese-American relations it can at
least be expected that the new cabinet will wish to con-
tinue to explore the possibilities of a basis upon which
relations with the United States might be improved.
803
FE:COVI11O:REK/HES

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
February 29, 1940
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
F5129 1940
Depariment of State
I called DP and asked Mrs. Edwards
if she had received a letter from the
White House since the 12th of February
addressed to Ambassador Grew. Mrs. Edwards
said that she had a record of a sealed
cover addressed to Ambassador Grew which
came from the White House on February 14
marked for the diplomatic pouch and that
the cover was delivered to the diplomatic
mail room and signed for by Mr. Pryor of
M
A
FILED
that office.
-1940
Reference: 894.002/414
PA/H:FD

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
PA/H
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
February 7, 1940.
Pns
MEMORANDUM FOR
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
894.002/414
will you read the enclosed
from Ambassador Grew and prepare
a reply for my signature?
Dlvision 2
FAR EASTERN AFFANDS
12140
F. D. R.
SIATE
Marro to the Prosident
RECEIVED
with draft letter to
SECRETARY
1940
RUS
NOTE
MAN
FILED
11396
MR. HORNBELY
Lee711.94
FEB 9-1940
1420
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
REK
THE AMERICAN EMBASSY
TOKYO
January 16, 1940.
Dear Frank:
The appointment of Admiral Yonai as Prime
Minister is about as good, from our point of view, as
any that could have been made. He has plenty of common
sense and knows something about foreign relations. When
an alliance with Germany was mooted last spring, the Navy
894.002/414
held the balance of power in the controversy and it was
he himself who was largely responsible for the decision to
avoid such an alliance. He himself told me of the decision
after a dinner given last spring by the Navy for the
officers of the ASTORIA.
We can't expect any sudden or very radical change in
Japanese policy and measures in China, but my guess is
that Yonai is strong enough and intelligent enough to
modify at least some of the discriminations against
American interests, over a period of time. I hope that
we shall give him a chance to see what he can do.
Arita, the new Foreign Minister, is an old friend of
894.002
mine from long association and a man to whom I can talk
with complete frankness. He will get an ear-full in due
course.
Faithfully yours,
JOSEPH C. GREW
The President,
Washington.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
February 12, 1940.
MEAOBANDUM FOR THE PRESIDEET
In respoase to your memorandum of February 7
there is attached hereto for your consideration a draft
reply to Ambassador Grew's letter to you of January 16.
If the reply meess your approval, it is suggested that
upom signature you send it to the Department fer forwareing
to Mr. Grew by diplomatie poush.
Mr. Grew's letter to you is returned herewith.
894.002/414
Dordoll Bul
melosures:
Drart letter to
Ambassador Grew!
Letter from Mr. Grew.
CR
thed
810
PA//H
FE:MMH:REK
FE

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
Dear Joe:
I an glad to have the interesting and
helpful comments conveyed in your letter of
January 16 in regard to the appointments of
Admiral Yonai as Prime Minister and of Arita
as Foreign Minister.
With all best wishes, I am
Very sineerely yours,
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo, Japan.
PA/1A
FE:MMH:REK
2/12/40
S4
CR
FEB 13 1940 F

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.86)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE SECRETARY
afH D
Hombeck
The Secretary would
draft of the President's
repeya
Astone
MR. HORNOL
FEB 9-1940
tren
EB1  1940
RA

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
Division of
FAR EABERN AFFAIR
MA
No. 595
Department of
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Hong Kong,' January 19, 1940.
54.002
not
711.942
SUBJECT: Hong Kong Press Comments on New Japanese
Cabinet and Considers Denounced Amerioan-
Japanese Treaty as its First Problem.
Ye
No
THE HONORABLE
M
1: US▲.
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
2
 RD
WASHINGTON.
RECEO
QF
SiR:
the honor to report that to date Hong
Kong newspapers and other commentators have shown
yery little special interest in the American-Japanese
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
elations involved in the Denunciation last July of
MAR111940
OF STATE
he Trade Treaty of l9ll. Local interest in political
A-M/C
ffairs has since the inauguration of the current
ropean War concerned itself much more with British
MAR 1 3 1940
nd Empire matters than with those of special Far
FILED
Bastern origin and application.
However, the conservative. and often officially
inspired SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST has recently ap-
peared with an editorial devoted to a special discus-
sion of American-Japanese relations which is represen-
tative of Hong Kong viewpoint. This editorial, entitled
"America's Stake", opens with a reference to the de-
munciation of the Trade Treaty and refers to the situ-
ation thus created as one of the first problems of the
new Yonai cabinet in Tokyo. It mentions the need in
general for trade treaties for the regulation of
11
international

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
international trade. There is given a brief cempari-
son of the figures for American trade with China and
with Japan, indicating the latter to be the more
important. It asks the question whether Ameriean
interest in China is worth a quarrel with Japan,
and in analyzing the trade figures comments that
"there appears to be loose thinking on the subjeot
even in the United States". However, continues the
editorial, the primary consideration "is not one of
dollars but of principle". It concludes with the
following:
"The position is that America enjoys trade
with both Japan and China, and Japan is
destroying one of these markets, without
compensation. To plead that the larger
one is left, and should not be jeopardised
in trying to save the smaller, is to con-
sent to unwarrantable deprivation. America
has good claim to both, and is entitled to
use her. strong bargaining position. Japan
began the pressure, in the effort to dis-
suade the Powers from aiding Chiang Kai-shek
and to establish a hegemony. How far Ameri-
ca's self-interest is seasoned with altru-
ism, and to what extent Buropean considerations
now enter, are questions open to conjecture:
but Japan obviously has no case.
1/
A copy of the POST editorial, which appeared in
the issue of Jamuary 18th, 1940, is transmitted here-
with. This editorial is perhaps of no great interest
because of any original or important thought which it
may present, but it may be of interest as being the
first reasonably pointed comment on this subjeot which
we have so far observed in the more responsible
sootion

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.95)
section of the Hong Kong press.
adn
Vory respectfully,
Addison E. Southar
American Consul General
Encldeure:
1/
Editorial, SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST
January 18, 1940
In quintuplicate to the Department
Copy to the Embassy, Tokyo
Copy to the Embassy, Peking
800.
AES/mm

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 595,
dated January 19, 1940, from Addison E.
Southard, American Consul General, Hong
Kong, on the subject: Hong Kong Press
Comments on New Japanese Cabinet and
Considers Denounced American-Japanese
Treaty as its first problem.
SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST
Thursday, January 18, 1940
America's Stake
question of the American in-
terest in China. Is it worth a
quarrel with Japan? It is com-
puted that America's investment
The trade treaty with Japan,
in China is less than U.S. $100,-
whicn tne Unted States ue-
000,000, and her exports to
nounced in Juiy, expires .next
China about half that figure,
week, January zó. 1t constitu-
while her exports to Japan total
tes the first problem of the new
nearly U.S. $300.000,000. Japan
Japanese Government: in the
is America's third best customer,
opinion of some commentators
hitherto the greatest consumer
the principal purpose in resnuf-
of American raw cotton and
ling the cabinet was to win
substantial purchaser of Ameri-
American conudence and make
can oil, iron, steel, machinery,
negotiation easier. It is pro-
timber, etc. America recipro-
phesied that, though the treaty
cates by being Japan's best
lapse, there will be no immediate
customer, buying most of Ja-
change:. a modus vivendi will be
pan's raw silk. Why, it is
arranged, from year to year.
asked, should Japan sacrifice
In effect, this will be to put
$500,000,000 worth of trade for
Japan on her good behaviour.
$100,000,000?
America complains reasonably
There appears to be loose
that Japan has closed the Open
thinking on the subject even
Door in China and that Ameri-
in the United States. The
can trade, in Manchuria and else-
almanacs are a little misleading:
where, is only possible through
what was true of 1937 was not
Japanese channels. America also
necessarily true of 1939. Ja-
reminds Japan of 600 incidents
pan's purchases of American
wherein merican nationals or
cotton have decreased sharply
their property have been injured
and America's principal exports
by Japanese action. Japan re-
plies that only about 300 pro-
to Japan are now, overwhelm-
ingly, war materials. Figures
tests have been made. America
for the first eight months of
considers that even that figure
is 300 too many. Japan hàs
1939 show: Total American ex-
offered piecemeal appeasement,
ports to Japan $135,484,000,
including: War materials $96,-
the reopening of the Yangtse,
578,000, raw cotton $21,891,000,
to wit: but America, logically,
other exports $17,015,000. These
considers that the instalment
statistics eliminate some of the
sy stem must be reciprocal. It
argument on behalf of America's
seems unlikely that a new treaty
tton-growers. The primary
will be signed. The temporary
consideration, however, is not
arrangement will be a weapon
ohe of dollars but of principle.
in America's hands, to be used
The position is that America
as Japan's conduct requires.
enjoys trade with both Japan
The need for trade treaties
and China, and Japan is des-
between nations is not at first
troying one of these markets,
apparent to the ordinary in-
without compensation. To plead
dividual. In these days of econo-
that the larger one is left, and
mic nationalism, however, it
should not be jeopardised in
will be appreciated that a treaty
trying to save the smaller, is to
is valuable in protecting both
consent to unwarrantable de-
parties against discrimination.
privation. America has good
Tnus, in the absence of a treaty,
claim to both, and is entitled to
it will be possible for America
use her strong bargaining posi-
to deny Japan "most-favoured-
tion. Japan began the pressure,
nation" treatment—i.e.. the
in the effort to dissuade the
same treatment as accorded to
Powers from aiding Chiang Kai-
the most favoured other nation:
shek and to establish a hege-
heavy duties can be. imposed
mony. How far America's self-
upon imports from Japan, and
interest is seasoned with altru-
goods can be entirely banned.
ism, and to what extent Euro-
Even the right to station consuls
pean considerations now enter,
in America may be modified.
 questions open to conjecture:
Japan, it is said, would at once
but Japan obvioualy has no edue.
retaliate, and a boycott war
might follow, Here enters the

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.92)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Resignstion of the Abe Cabinet and Insuguretien of the
Yonai Cabimet.
Report concerming -.
2/416
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See4485
(Depat, telogrem, etron, L, .)
Dated Fob. 13, 1940
From
Japan (Grem)
To
File No.894.00 P.R./146
0. . T P  1-10

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.97)
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a)
Resignation of the Abe Cebinot and In-
auguretion of tho Yonai Cebinet.
4.00/2
On Januery 14 the Abo C-binot resigned en bloc. Un-
like the fall of the two previous Cabinets, the resigna-
tion of the Abe Cebinct had been generally anticipated.
There
*Depertment's telegrem no. 36, Jenuary 27, 3 p.m.
**Horbin's telegren no. 3, January 28, noon.
Harbin's telegram no. 4, Jenuary 31, 3 p.m.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
Thero was an open and gonerally populcr opposition to
the Cabinet, occasioned primarily fron its failuro to
dee sctisfactorily with internal affairs concorned
principelly with the econonic conditions ir the country.
(Reference: Enbassy's Political Reports for October,
November end Decenber).
Tho Cobinet hed committed what tho country chose to
tern one blunder efter nothor in the cconomic end poli-
ticrl ficlds. It will be rocrlled thrt popular dissatis-
fection with the Government hed been nrnifosted through
the membors of the Diet, a largo body of whom had adopted
a resolution of non-confidence with the Cabinet et the
end of Dcceniber. It was understood thet Prenier Abe had
detorninod to ignore those attacks and the country's op-
position na thrt, if the Diet, upon its reconvontion in
Janunry entered a formel voto of non-confidonoe, he was
deterninod to dissolve Perliament. The end of his admin-
istr tion, however, camo when, on January 8, the Army and
Nevy withdrew their support. Reportedly, the militery
felt that dissolution of the Dict, by bringing out intcrnal
dissension whon a united front was neoded, would bo a bed
movo et the present tine.
On the following dey Admirol Mitsumnsa Yonai recoived
tho Imperial comnond to form a new Cabinet. His solection
come as e general surpriso to tho country and it was re-
portec that he had been turned to as s third choice. In
the political maneuvers that took place beforehand to find
c. new Premier it wes reported that the Army, with strong
popular

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
-24-
popular backing, wented Prince Konoo to toke the posi-
tion. Prince Konoe, however, firnly declined, on the
grounds of his incompetence to deal with the current
grave econonic problons. The high personages about
the throne vished to have General Hcta or some other
Army officer take on the task ana to place the responsi-
bility squarely on the shoulders of the militery for
today's difficulties vhich ere largely of their making.
The Arny was snid to heve refused to do so, and went so
far as to prohibit any officer on the cctive list from
cccopting the Promiorship.
In the choico cf Admiral Yonei, whom tho Army was
willing to rccept, nd vith whon, after his scloction,
the Army was crdered
by the Emperor to cooperate, it
wes folt that a men hod boen found whose courege, strong
personolity, modor to viovs, oxperience fron having held
the Navy Ministry portfolio in the Yonoe and Hiranuma
Cebinets, and faniliarity with the curront problens fac-
ing the country, vould make a suitable candidcte for the
Premiership.
Adniral Yonai's C vi..et, vhich was organized in a
very sh rt time, wes composed os follows:*
Prime Ministor: Adniral Mitsumasa Yonai
Minister for Foreign Affairs: Mr. Hachiro Arita
eac 1.
Minister of Home Affcirs: Count Hideo Kodema
Minister of Finance: In. Yukio Sakurauchi
Minister of ar: General Shunroku Hatc
Ministor of N vy: Vicc-Adniral Zongo Yoshida
Minister f Justice: Ir. Shotatsu Kimura
I'inistor or Education: Mr. Cuinjiro Mrtsuura
Minister of Agriculture and Forostry: Ir. Toshio
Shinada
I'inister of Commorce cnd Industry: Mr. Ginjiro Fujihara
Ministor
*Despctch no. 4486, Fobrurry 13, 1940.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
Mi.istor of Communicctions: Mr. M.sanori Katsu
Minister of Roilways: Mr. Tsuruhei Matsuno
Minister of Ovorseas Affairs: Gonorel Kuniaki Koiso
Minister of Telfare: Mr. Shigeru Yoshida
Chief Socretary of the Ccbinet: Mr. Sotaro Ishiwata
Director of the Lugislative Bureau of the Cabinet:
Mr. Hisctadc Hirose
Director of the Cabinet Planning Board: Mr. Kakichi
Takouchi
The roaction to the Cabinet was generelly favorable.
It was considered that, although there were no statosmen
among them, tho Ministers were eblo men end had had a
good doal cf experience rn? would be well led by the new
Promier. Thore wes some speculation, however, as regards
how much backing th new Cabinet would be cble to secure
in the coming Dict sossion fron the political orties,
despite the fact th t a number of perty men were includ-
ed in it.*
In a press interview given on January 16, the new
Premier geve an outline of the policies that his cdnini-
stretion would follow. He scid that generally they would
represent a continuction of thoso of the preceding Gov-
ernment. He likened the a proach that he w uld teke to
his problens to a tripod which would have as its three
feet the China "incident", international questions, and
domestic problens, each being given equal inportance and
rttention cnd all made to stend together. The press gen-
crolly commonted on this policy as being vague and inde-
cisive but expressed the hope th-t Adnirel Yonai would
be able to work out Jenan's difficulties satisfrctorily.
(b) Government
*Desnetch no. 4486, February 13, 1940.
Embassy's telegram no. 12, Jenuary 11, noon.
Embassy's telegrem no. 17, Janu ry 12, 6 p.n.
Enbassy's telegrari no. 18, Janucry 14, noon.
Embessy's telegrcm no. 19, Jenuary 14, 9 p.m.
Embassy's telogrem no. 20, January 15, 5 p.n.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
894.002
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of the Abe Cabinet: selection of Admiral Yonai as
Prime Minister and the composition and policies of his cabinet.
894.002/417
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#4486
See
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Feb 13, 1940
From
Japan (Grew)
Dated
To
894.00/901
File No.
U. S. GOVENMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1540
FRG.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Kenoe, repertedly, to resign,shertly, es President of Privy
Couneil; to be replaced by Hiranuma,
894.002/
418
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See T0l.406:
(Despatoh, telegram, instruotion, letter, eto.)
From
Japan (Geew)
DatedJune 23. 1940
To
894.00/911
File No.
U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1840

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.96)
AC
PLA.N
JOTE
Tokyo
DatEd JunE 23, 1940
894.002
Rec'd 6:47 a.m.
SEcrEtary of StatE
Washington
486, JunE 23.
Today's press rEports KcnoE to rEsign nExt fEw
days as FrrsidEnt Privy Council, tc bE rEplacEd by
Haranuma.
894.00
GREW
ALC

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
FE
MK. HURNBECK
ADVISER
NOV 2 - 1940
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FROMGRAY
JI
Tokyo via Shanghai & . R.
COPIES SENT TO
Dated August 21, 1940
O.N.I. AND.M.I.D
REc'd 10:30 a.m. 22nd
DFC
Divisionf
No action
FAR EASDRS
SEcrEtary of State
CC
AUG 2 2 1940
Washington
Department of State
723, August 21, 7 p.m.
8
394,002/419
The press rE ports today that thE first meeting
to dEcidE unon thE organization for a nEw CabinEt
894.002
IntelligencE Bureau was hEld today at thE official
rEsidEncE of thE FrimE MinistEr. ThE nEw Cabinet
IntelligencE Bureau will take over activities of the
Army and Mavy IntelligEnce Bureaus and part of the
functions of the Information Bureau of the Foreign
OfficE an wEll as certain intelligEncE functions of
AUG
FILED
thE HomE OfficE and thE Communications Ministry.
2
Full rEport of this nEw organization will go to
191
the DEpartment by dEspatch in thE next pouch. It is
interEsting to notE in this connection that the Navy
Ministry has abandoned thE practicE of holding press
conferences with forEign correspondents and the Foreign
OfficE spokEsman has informed thE correspondents that
0
the Foreign OfficE conferences will also bE handled by
the
F
G

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
EE
CORRECTED SECOND PAGE
JR -2- #723, August 21, 7 p.n., from Tckyo via Shanghai & N.R.
the Cabinet IntelligencE Bureau.
TherE appeared recently in special small nEwspapers
circulated in jcurnalistic circles thE report that the
projected CabinEt IntelligencE Bureau will in the near
futurE ExercisE stricter censorship cf articles appearing
in thE vernacular press. It stated that all articles
having to do with "pclitical forEcasts" wculd bE banned
894,002
ExcEpt thcsE spEcifically allcwEd by thE cabinet. Stories
cf thE nEw singlE party and thE nEw political structurE
mcvements arE tc bE carefully censcred by thE Intelligence
2/419
Bureau. ThE predicticn was Expressed that thE GovErnnent's
publicity policy would ccmE mcrE closEly to rEsemble the
policy fcllowEd by thE totalitarian states. WE are informed
by an imerican ccrrespcndent that the pclicE havE warned
the translatin sErvices ccncerning thE types of articles
which they may translatE frem JapanEsE magazines and
nEwspapErs. A press dEspatch ban has bEen anncunced upon
nEws stories ccncerning JapanEsE nEgotiaticns with the
followin6 sEven ccuntries: Russia, Great Britain, France,
Germany, Italy, Netherlanus, United States.
ThE Embassy has observed in thE last few weeks
an unusual scarcity cf pclitical articles and independent
Editorial
C

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
JI-3-#723, August 21, 7 p.m. from Tokyo via Shanghai & N.R
Editoricl writing on the part of the vernacular press.
Sent to thE Denartment via Shanghai.
GREW
TFV
JOTE: REpEtition rEquEstEd on (?)

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.95)
Lee Corrected Page
JI-2-#723, August 21, 7 p.m. from Tokyo via Shangha1 & N.R.
the Cabinet IntelligencE Bureau.
TherE appeared recently in special small news-
papers circulated in journalistio circles the rEport
that the projEcted Cabinet Intelligence Bureau will
in thE nEar futurE ExercisE stricter censorship of
articles appearing in thE vernacular press. It stated
"political (?) (?)"
that all crticles having to do with
would bE banned ExcEpt thogE spEcifically allowed
by the cabinEt. (?) of thE nEw singlE party and the
new political structure movements are to bE carefully
cEnsored by thE IntelligEncE Bureau: The prediction
was ExprEssed that the (?)
publicity policy would
admit (?) closEly to rEgEmblE thE polioy followEd by
thE totalitarian states. WE arE informed by an American
correspondent thet the policE havE (?) the whether this
(?) (?) thE types of articles which they my translate
from JapanEsE ndgazines and newspapers. A press
concerning JapanesE
despatch ben les been announced upon nEws otories/
nEgotiations
/with the foldowing sEven countries: Russia, Great
Britain, FrancE, Gernany, Itcly, NEtherlands, United
States.
The E baooy hcs oboerved in thE last few weeks
an unybual acarcity of political articles and independent
Editorinl

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
8CR
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
file
DEPA
RECEIVED
A.L
Juxy 23, 1940
JUL 25 1940
Division of
mrn
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. WelPEBISION OF
JUL 24 1940
MR. WELLES
Department of State
Comments are submitted concerning the new Japanese
cabinet as follows:
(1) The Premier.
894.002
Prince Fumimaro Konag's previous administration as
Premier covered the first eighteen months of the China
894.002/420
incident, a period of successive military gains and one
in which the effects of a war economy were least notice-
able in Japan. He resumes office at this time without
responsibility for the unfavorable developments during
the intervening year and a half, a period of military
stalemate in China and economic difficulties in Japan.
His willingness to resume leadership at this time may
indicate a belief on his part that conditions have changed
so as to make possible a successful administration which
would include liquidation of the China incident on a
basis favorable to Japan. He has strong popular support
and the Army finds his political views acceptable.
(2) The Policy Makere.
JUL 2 5 1940
FILED
Press reports from Tokyo indicate that national
policies will be formulated by a few key members of the
cabinet.
Minister
F/N

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Minister of Marine Zengo Yoshida is a holdover from
the Yonai cabinet and in the traditional manner he repre-
sents naval policy as formulated by the Naval General
Staff.
Minister of War Eiki Tojo was at one time Vice Minis-
ter of War and more recently Director General of Military
Aviation. In a speech last year he expressed the inevita-
bility of a war with Russia and the need for a completely
totalitarian economy in Japan.
Foreign Minister Yosuke Matsuoka headed the Japanese
delegation which withdrew from the Assembly of the League
of Nations in 1933; until recently he was president of the
South Manchuria Railroad. Matsuoka is a leading proponent
of an authoritarian form of government and appears to be
convinced that democracy is on the wane.
Naoki Hoshino, Minister without Portfolio, and re-
portedly president of the Cabinet Planning Board has been
chief civil administrator in "Manchukuo" of the Army's
planned economy. Our Consul General at Mukden in l936
characterized him as "a very hard worker, sincere, force-
ful, a sentimentalist with a belief that in 'Manchukuo'
a new order is being worked out along the lines of an
economio State Socialism".
(3)

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
(3) Other Cabinet Members.
The cabinet includes two industrial and commercial
leaders, Ichizo Kobayashi, president of the Tokyo Electric
Company, to serve as Minister of Commerce and Industry,
and Shozo Murata, president of a large shipping company,
as Minister of Communications and Railways. Both of
these men are strongly nationalistic and are reported to
be opposed to the United States. The remaining members
of the cabinet have apparently been selected for their
administrative ability and it is not believed that they
will play any large part in policy formulation.
(4) Comments.
The key civilian posts in the cabinet are filled by
persons whose political and economic beliefs are acceptable
to the Army and there is no person in the cabinet, with
the possible exception of Konoe, who would be likely to act as a
the
It appears likely that the new Ministry will endeavor
to take advantage of this "golden opportunity" and move
more rapidly along the path towards Japan's declared ob-
jectives in Asia. Incidentally, there is likely to be
manifested by the Japanese Government a more positive and
stiffer attitude towards the United States which might
lead to further deterioration in Japanese-American relations.
It

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.87)
-4-
It 1s generally believed that there will be a pro-
nounced pro-Axis orientation in Japan's foreign policy.
3.3..
9m0
IBW
FE:White:HJN

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Appointment of successor to Tani, Vice Minister of Foreign Af-
fairs.
Chuichi Ohashi, recently Counselor to the "Manchukuo" govern-
ment, appointed, according to press.
894.002/421
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel #651; 6pm
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Aug 2, 1940
From
Japan (Grew)
Dated
To
894.00/939
File No.
FRG
U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1840

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.92)
NOTE
J.
G.Y
Tckyo
Dated August 2, 1940
Rec'd 9:17 a.m.
Storetary cf State,
Yashington.
651, lugust 2, 6 pm.
894.00
Our 617, Ju1 15, 5 pom.
ThE press today rEports cppointment of Chuichi Ohashi,
recently Counsclor te the ManchukuoGoverment, as Vice
I inieter of Forcign Mffaire to succeed Tani.
G: ET!
PEG

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 12, 1940
PA/H
Tokyo's August 6, 1940. Fall of the Yonai
Cabinet and formation of the Second Konoye
Cabinet.
The Embassy finds that in the weeks just
preceding the cabinet change, public feeling in
Japan veered away from support of a policy of
noninvolvement toward one of opportunism if not
one of alliance with the Axis; that related to
this feeling is a desire on the part of the
Japanese people, after a decade of almost com-
plete isolation, to ally themselves with nations
which have demonstrated military power and
future affairs of the world (page 4).
The "wait and see" attitude of the Yonai
Cabinet toward the one-party movement was a
factor in that Cabinet's growing unpopularity
(page 5).
At the time of this Cabinet change as also
at the time of the formation of the Abe and
Yonai Cabinets, the Lord Keeper of the Privy
Seal,upon being commanded by the Emperor to
offer his advioe as to who should be invited to
form a cabinet, called a conference of the
"Jushin" (principal subjects) an informal body
consisting of the ex-prime ministers and the
President of the Privy Counoil which procedure
is tending to take the place of the procedure
which

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
formerly involved consultation of the
(page 7).
The Embassy finds the present Konoye
Cabinet on the whole conservative in character
Teshida, Navy Minister) are not regarded as
fire-eaters, Admiral Yoshida being a man of
fairly broad views (page l0).
The Embassy has the view that it is prob-
able that no abrupt and drastio change in
foreign policy need be anticipated for the
near future, in view of the economic considera-
tion that Japan is largely dependent on raw
materials from the United States and Great
Britain; but that it is also likely that Japan
will move toward cooperation with the Axis
powers in proportion to the military successes
of those powers. The Embassy also recognizes
that through the establishment of the new
Konoye Cabinet, prospects of an improvement in
relations between the United States and Japan
have received a definite setback (page 12).
The Embassy calls attention to the fact
that around Prinoe Konoye there has been
built up a logend of omnipotence out of pro-
portion to the actual abilities of the man
(page 13), and notes that publio reaction to
the statements of policy issued by the Cabinet
and by the Foreign Minister on August 1 was
one of disappointment and dissatisfaction.
ee
FE:Covillo:OJL

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
OFPORTMENT OF STATF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1940 AUG 37 PM 3 56
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONTOkyO, August 6, 1940.
AND RECORDS
No. 4900.
SUBJECT:
FALL OF THE YONAI CABINET AND FORMATION OF
THE SECOND KONOYE CABINET.
a
894.002/422
gile
A
Cohy in FE
BofMistrihurian-Chenk
Y'es
No
Grade
10011
For
In U S A
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
ONI
MID
4
SEP 20 1940
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I, AND M.I.D.
SEP 2 1 1940
FILED
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to recount the events in conneotion
with the fall of the Yonai Cabinet and the formation of
all.
clips
the second Konoye Cabinet, and to give a brief appraisal
F
of the new govermment.
Since the outbreak in l937 of what the Japanese call
the "China inoident", this country has been admimistered

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
iactivity, mene of these cabinets fell as the resalt ef
administrative failure. The reasen fer the shert lives
of these suecessive govermments must rather be seught
in their foreign policies: policies teward Chima and
↓ toward Marope.
In domestio affairs the Tomai Cabimet is gomerally
regarded as having given a satisfactory, if met brilliant,
performance, and to have made creditable progress towamd
solving the acute problems of price eontrel and aistribé-
tion of commodities inherited from the Abe regime. In
ordinary times the conduot of affairs by the Tomei Cabinet
could have given no cause for complaint on the part of the
public, but the fact is that in the past few weeks ef its
life the Cabinet found itself faced by a growing impasse.
The Yomai Cabinet, which took offiee on Jamuary 16 ef
this year, is commonly believed to be the ereatiem of the
senior statesmen around the Throne, headed by Mr. Yuasa
whe was then Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal. These men
are of the old sohool, strongly influenced by mineteemth
century liberalism and disapproving ef the modern tremds
toward extreme mationalism and toward aligment with the
Axis powers. To a considerable extent the Tomai Cabimet
reflected their views. It follewed a eareful midale path
in foreign affairs, adkering to the poliey e "men-iavelve-
ment" in Earepeen affairs whiek was inkerited frem the
preceding twe mimistries, showing a dispesities to megetiate

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
growing out of the confliets in Burepe and in Asia.
Admiral Yonai was known to be persistently skeptieal
over the benefits to Japan of aligmment with the Axs
powers, and ererted his efforts to adjust relatioms with
the United States and Great Britain. Even in Fereigm
Minister Arita's widely disoussed speeeh of Jume 9, in
which he reiterated and confirmed Japan's intentien er
dominating East Asia, no mention was made of oleser ee-
operation or alignment with the Axis powers.
The rapid changes taking place in the European situa-
tion and in favor of the Axis powers have had pewerful
reperoussions on the Japanese mind. Faced by the pessible
emergence of Germany as a domimant werld power, the Jape-
nese people have chosen to forget the blew dealt te their
amour propre by German desertion of the anti-ceminterm
front, and have shown increasing desire to make eommem
cause with those powers which are endeavoring to everthrew
the old order throughout the world. while there is no
true affinity between the Japanese and the Axis powers,
the former are quick to peroeive the advantage of pewerful
friends capable of offsetting pressure from an imereasingly
unfriendly America. It will be revalled that last summer
the Hiramama Cabinet was reported to have debated the eem-
olusion of a formal alliance with Germany and Italy, then
as now strongly favered by the Army: Admiral Yomai, whe
Hachuino
OBE
was then Navy, Minister, and Mr. Arite are said to have
cast the deciding votes against the alliamse ane shsreby
te have earned the distrust at a streng element mens the
peeple as well as the Aray.
Roeemtly

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
4
eritical attention in this country. Japazese in all
walks of life have pereeived that the confliet in Barege
offered uaprecedented opportumity fer advaneement ef
Japan's aims and ambitions; fer the dispesal ef the per-
ennial preblem of the China confliet; and fer the setting
up of what is called the "esonemie blee" in the Far East.
Striet adherenee to the poliey of mon-invelvement would
tie the hands of Japan in any future adjustment affeeting
the status of the Netherlands Indies, of Fremeh Indeckimm,
and perhaps of British possessiens in the Far East. In
the past few weeks publie feeling in Japan has thas sheered
definitely away from a policy of nen-iavelvememt teward
one of epportunism if not of alliance with the Axis. Re-
lated to this feeling is the desire on the part of the
Japanese people, after a decade of almost eomplete isola-
tion, to ally themselves with nations who have demenstrated
their military power and who show premise of playing a
dominant part in future affairs of the world.
Meanwhile the Gevermment cemmitted to the poliey of
↑八
non-involvement had lost publie support. At the fere-
J
front of the grewing hostility teward the Yenai Gabinet
 was, of course, the Aray, and it was the Army which
canse of Army dissatisfaction was undoubtedly the Cabines's
lukewarm attitude teward the recently intensified mevement
to strengthem relatiens with the Axis pewers, yet the Amy
else had a private gredge against the Cabiaet. Ls carly

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
-5
Army plams fer replemishment of equipment.
Amother reason for Army disaffection was failure of
the Yonai Cabinet to align itself in faver of the meek
disoussed but nebulous "new political strueture" movement.
This movement, which Prinee Konoye was recently prevailed
upon to lead, undoubtedly derives much of its imspiration
from Fasoist and Nasi models, just as does the "Coneerdia
Society" of Manchukuo, with modifieations te suit. Japanese
ideas. In that it predieates the ooncentratien of pelitieal
power and the abolition of the existing politieal parties,
the movement has undoubtedly the appreval if net the
active support of the Army. The attitude of the Yomai
Cabinet toward this movement, whieh was deseribed by the
press as one of "wait and see", aroused the ire met only
of the Army but also of a great many Japanese whe believe
that vigorous proseoution of the plans fer mebilisation
of the nation's strength to establish the new order must
await the setting up of the new strueture.
While the foregoing disoussion touehes only the main
factors behind the fall or the Tonai Cabinet, there are
of course other and ebseure factors not olearly revealed
\as yet. However, it may in brier be said that the Yemai
Cabinet, with all its good record fer domestie administra-
tien, had lost the comfidenee of the publie in its ability
to conduct the affairs of the nation in the new situation
arising out of the German vietories, and had aronsed the
oppesition of the Army ever its laek of enthusiasm for
prepesed reppreekement with the Axis. The press er Tekye

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.96)
--
not meet the demand of the times and that a change was
duo.
The fall of the Tonai Cabinet was brought abeut by
the Army, which took advantage of the eonstitutiomal re-
quirement that the Minister of War must be an astive
military offieer, and used it as a weapen against the
Cabinet. In the middle part of July General Hata, the
/War Mimister, is reperted to have written to the Premier
a letter suggesting that he resign. To this the Premier
replied that he was not so disposed, whereupon the War
Minister himself tendered his resignation. The Premier
then asked the War Minister to recommend a suesessor, whieh
the latter, after consultation with other Army leaders,
declared it impessible to do. In view of a refusal by
the Army to nominate a War Minister, the Yonai Govermment
could not, by operation of law, continue to exist. On
July 16 the Cabinet members submitted their resigmations
en bloc. In an unusually frank publio statement the Chier
Secretary to the Cabinet placed the blame for the Cabimet's
resignation on the Minister of War.
With the fall of the Tonai Cabinet, there appeared to
be only two men of sufficient calibre to commamd publie
confidence in the present ciroumstances. The belief of
many competent observers that the choiee would fall en one
certain quarters that the prospeets of peace with Chim
were so unfavorable as to preclude Komoye's retarm te ef-
fiee. The other possible eandidate, Prince Eemeye, was
yyPrime Minister in 1957 when the confliet with Chime had
bogan,

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
-7-
fliet should be conoluded. That the choiee evemtually
fell on Konoye is, therefere, clear indieation that recemt
Earopean developments permit of a more optimistie viow
The procedure whereby Prince Konoye was recemmented
 to the Throne is of interest as crystallising a recemt
 innovation in the selection of a new Prime Mimister. Mar-
quis rido, Lord Keeper of the Privy Seal, whose adviee in
22
the matter had been commanded by the Emperor, ealled a
conference of the "Jushin" (principal subjeets), an imfermal
body consisting of the ex-prime ministers and the presidemt
of the Privy Couneil, at which the choice fell upen Prinee
Konoye. The precedent for this prosess of ehoesing a
nominee was set at the time of the formation of the Abe
and Tonai Cabinets, and takes the place of the adviee
formerly tendered by the Genro. Prinee Saionji, who alene
survives from among that group of early elder statesmen,
is now a feeble nonagenarian no longer capable ef remder-
ing a decision upon matters of mational importance, but
as a gesture of courtesy he was netified by special
messenger of the decision to recommend Prince Koneye.
The imperial command was given to Prinee Kemeye on
July 17. At once he took the umpreceedented stey ef select-
ing the three key ministers -- of War, Marine, and Fereign
Affairs -- and of meeting with them to diseuss and agree
upon the fundamentals of demestie and fereign peliey :befere
attempting further to erganise a eabinet. Although the
mastero

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.93)
matters disoussed were net diselesed, it is an opem
secret that the chier subjects were the reeriemtamém
of fereign policy, settlement of the China affair,
and the premotion of a cleser accerd between the eivix
\and military administrations. It is rumered that besore
Prince Konoye would proceed with the formation of am
cabinet he demanded and reccived assurances ef eseperatiem
from the Army. Prinee Konoye was well aware of the dif.
/ferenees in views and lack of ccoperation that led te the
downfall of the preceding Yomai Cabimet, and undoubtedly
he desired to come to a olear understanding with the
armed services in regard to major issues of peliey befere
committing himself to the formetion of a govermmemt.
In all his moves leading to the fermation of a cabimet
Prince Konoye showed mmeh deliberatien, with full realisa-
tion on his part of the exeeptiomally grave respemsibility
international situation. Five days were required te seleet
and organise his eabinet, which was formally invested by
the Emperor on July 22, its composition being as follows:
Prime Minister
Prinee Fumimare Koneye
Minister for Foreim
Affairs and cenour-
rently Mimister for
Overseas Affairs
Tesuke Matsueka
Minister fer Heme Af-
fairs and eeaearrently
Minister of Welfare
Biji Yasui
Minister of Finanee
Isao Kawada
o
Minister of War
Lieutemant General
Hideki Toje
Minister ef Marine
Viee Admiral Zeage
Minisser

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
--
Minister of Justice
Akire Easemi
Minister ef Edueation
Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry
Tadeatou Mahikure
Minister of Commerce
and Industry
Ichiso Kebayashi
Minister of Cemmunications
and conourrently Minis-
ter of Railways
Shozo Marata
Minister.without Port-
folio
Naoki Hoskine
With the exeeptien of the Minister of Agrieulture
and Forestry, the ranking is according to the anmouneement
in the Offieial Gasette.
MIAA
The new Cabinet presents scme unusual features and
cannot easily be described under any partieular tag. on
the whole it is conservative in charaster. While mest ef
the members are recognized as able men, they are met states-
mem of the first calibre nor, generally speeking, have
they had much experience in high effiee. Several members
are businessmen, notably Mr. Murata, former president of
the Osaka Shesen Kaisha, and Mr. Kebayashi, fermer presi-
dent of the Tokyo Electric Company, but the Cabimt is by
no means a businessman's government. Mr. Yasui, the Home
Minister, is a member of the House of Peers with minis-
terial experience: Mr. Kazami, the Minister ef Justiee,
is the only member of the Lewer House represented om the
Cabinet and is best known as a journalist. He has been
given the Justice portfolio to draft changes in the laws
to bring them mere elesely inte line with the single-party
A
prineiple./ Mr. Kamada, the Minister of Fimanee, is a
bureauerat

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.95)
-10-
bareauerat who was recently president of the Tee (
Asia) Shipping Company,) and so is Mr. Hoshine, Mimíster
of the General Affairs Bureau of Manehakuo, the mest im-
pertant administrative post in that regime.
Mr. Hoshino's presence in the Cabinet is goed evidemse
of intention to establish the economie bloe system. 
is said to owe his present appointment to Army isflmemee.
It is interesting that the Cabinet contains three members
who have played major roles in the creation of "Manehakue":
General Tojo, who was formerly Commander of the Drantang
Army; Mr. Matsuoka, who was until recently president er
the South Manchurian Railway; and Mr. Hoshine, mentiomed
Vabove. It is expeeted that these men will be ealled upen
to use their experience in the effort to eonselidate Japam's
position in China and in the creation ef an eesmemie blee
in the Far East.
A
The real power of the Cabinet will probably be exer-
oised through an "inner cabinet" consisting of the War
W
Minister, General Tojo, the Navy Minister, Admiral Yeshida,
and Mr. Matsuoka, in addition to the Prime Minister. The
two military men are not regarded as fire-eaters, Admiral
Toshida being a man of fairly broad views. Mr. Matsuoka
is an ardent talker and has the reputation of being indis-
creet. As an iconcelast and strong advecate ef the abeli-
tion of the status quo, he is regarded with seme umeasinems
in conservative cireles. Whether his polieies will be as
drastie as his recent statements seem to premise remains
te be seen.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
-11-
Vone who could be deseribed as a politieal figure save
the Prime Minister and perhaps Mr. Matsueke whe tamed
his back on politios several years ago. Evidently Primée
Konoye is determined to let no party inflmemee emter imte
his govermment. His appointment and the formatien of his
Cabinet have provided the final coup de srace te the eld
political parties whioh are now in precess of disselution.
1/
On August 1 the Cabimet issued a statement of peliey*
which had been awaited with unusual anticipatien. At the
2/
same time Mr. Matsuoka made a statement on fereign poliey.**
Copies in translation of these statements are appemded.
The purport of these statements, which are disappointimgly
vague, can be arrived at only by reading between the limes.
They may perhaps be rendered as follows:
1. The establishment of Japanese hegemeny and
of the "new order" in greater East Asia.
2. The augmenting of national defense.
3. The relaxing of the non-intervention policy
in favor of a flexible poliey of oppertumism.
4. The settlement of the confliet in China.
5. The establishment of a new national strue-
ture.
6. The establishment of an ecemomie bloc in
the Far East and the adoption of domestie measures
toward a planned econemy.
7. Cooperation with "friendly powers", by which
is implied aligmment with the Axis pewers.
There is nothing mew in this program and nething which
differs materially from the deelared policies ef the pre-
ceding goverament. What remains to be seen is the mammer
12
*abassy's telegram No. 640, August 1, 5 p..

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
in which these policies will be implemented. It is safe
to say that the fundamental lines of foreign policy will
be the vigorous prosecution of plans for the establish-
ment of the new order and the strengthening of relations
with the Axis. In domestic affairs Konoye will probably
concentrate his efforts upon regimenting the nation and
bringing about closer cooperation between the civil and
military administrations. It is probable that no abrupt
and drastic change in foreign policy need be anticipated
for the near future, in view of the economic consideration
that Japan is largely dependent on raw materials from the
United States and Great Britain, but it is also likely
that Japan will move towerd cooperation with the Axis
powers in proportion to the military successes of those
powers. It may be asserted with confidence that through
the establishment of the Konoye Cabinet the prospeots of
an improvement in the relations between the United States
and Japan have received a definite setback.
The setting up of a "new national strueture" is part
of the new government's program, as is "renovation of the
Diet as an organ for assisting the Throne". It appears
certain that the Cabinet will proceed with organizing the
much debated new structure, although it appears equally
certain that no one in or out of the government has any
definite idea of what the structure is to be. As Prime
Minister, Prinoe Konoye will not be in position to devote
his energies to the task of organization, which may there-
fore be handed over to subordinates with results unpredict-
able. In any event there will be closer unification of
government, and the adoption of rigid measures toward a
planned eoonomy.
Judging

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.95)
-18
basis of his previeus record as Prime Minister, whish is
net specially impressive, or on the basis of his recemt
utteranees, which have thus far been mestly vague and mem-
sommittal. As a man Prinee Koneye is not very fereefal,
nor is he an eloquent speaker. As a statesman he has yet
to be tested. He is said to be sagacious, tactful, and
gifted as a conciliater, but to the casual observer he
would hardly seem to qualify as the strong leader meeded
to unify the mation and guide it through the manifeld
diffioulties now surrounding it. His greatest asset is
undoubtedly the prestige of his aneient limeage, but that
alone can hardly account for the seeming belier by the
publie that there is none exeept Prinee Komeye who is
qualified to head the govermment at this time. In fact,
it is hard not to feel that around Prince Konoye there has
been built up a legend of omnipotence out of preportion
to the actual abilities of the man, a conelusion which
points to dangerous possibilities. If during the next
months the peace with China antioipated by Prinee Komoye
and his sponsors eventuates, publie confidenee in him will
be fulfilled and his prestige will be enormously enhameed.
If, en the other hand, the man who has beem put ferward to
lead the country out of its difficulties achieves me sme-
eess and ir the present stalemate persists, the diserodit
to Prince Eeneye will be equally great. The selestien er
1
this cultivated and charmins figare at this time may.
therefere, be regarded as in the mture of a gamble with

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
-14-
stakes that might well affeet the stability of the
system of govermment. It is sigmifieant in this
that a press ban has been imposed by the poliee e the
publication of anything suggesting that the mow Cabimet
is unpopular. Also significant is the fast that publis
reaction to the statements of poliey issued by the Cabfnet
and by the Foreign Minister on August 1 was one of dis
appointment and dissatisfaction.
Respeetfully yours,
Namth 6-Tim
Joseph C. Grew
Enclesures:
1/ and z/ statements as desoribed.
800.2
WTT:nn
Original and 3 copies to the Department.
Copy to Eabassy, Peiping.
Copy to Embassy, Chungking.
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelosure no. 1 to
4900 datod 
STATDENT BY THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
August 1, 1940
(Unefricial translation by the Foreign Orriee)
The world stands at a great historie turning point,
and it is about to witness the creation of new forms of
government, economy, and culture, based upon the growth
and development of sundry groups of states. Japan, teo,
is confronted by a great trial such as she has never ex-
perienced in history. In order to carry out fully at
this juncture our national policy in accordanee with the
lofty spirit in which the country was founded, it is an
important task of urgent necessity to us that we should
grasp the inevitable trends in the developments of world
history, effect speedily fundamental renovations along
all lines of government, and strive for the perfeetion
of a state structure for national defense. Aocordingly,
the general lines of the country's fundamental national
policies have been formulated as follows:
Summary of Fundamental National Policies.
1. Basie Polioy.
The basie aim of Japan's national policy lies in the
firm establishment of world peace in accordanee with the
lofty spirit of Hakko Iehis, in whioh the country was
founded, and in the construetion, as the first step, of

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
a new order in Greater Bast Asia, having for its foumdatse
the solidarity of Japan, Manchoukuo and China.
Japan will, therefore, devote the total strength of
the nation to the fulrilment of the above poliey by setting
up swiftly an unshakable national strueture of her ewn
adapted to meet the requirements of new developments beth
at home and abroad.
2.
National Defense and Foreign Poliey.
The Government will strive for the repletion of arma-
ments adequate for the execution of the national policies,
by taking into consideration the new developments both at
home and abroad, and construeting a state strueture for
national defense, eapable of bringing into full play the
total strength of the nation.
Japan's foreign polioy, which aims ultimately at the
construetion of a new order in Greater East Asia, will be
direoted, first of all, toward a complete settlement of the
China Affair, and the advancement of the national fortune
by taking a far-sighted view of the drastie ehanges in
the international situation and formulating both construetive
and flerible measures.
3.
Renovation of Internal Strueture.
What is urgently required in internal administration
is the laying of the foundation for a state strueture for
national defense through a complete renovation of the
domestie administration in general, for whioh purpose the
Government expeets the realisation of the follewing peints:
A. Renovation of edueation theroughly in harmexy with
the fundemental prineiples of the national polity, and
also the establishment of ethieal prineiples of the
nation stressing, above all, serviee to the state and
eradieating

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
eradicating all selrish and materialistie thoughts.
B. Establishment of a powerful new pelitieal strueture
and a unified control of government affairs.
a. Establishment of a new national strueture, of whieh
the keynote lies in the service to the state threugh
the co-operation between government and people, every-
man according to his sphere of profession or business.
b. Renovation of the Diet as an organ for assississ
the Throne, so as to adapt it to the new natiomal
structure.
o. Fundamental renovation in the operation of
administrative organs, and the reformation of the
bureaucracy, aimed at the unity and effieieney of
those organs.
C. Laying the foundation of national defense eeonomy,
of which the keynote is to lie in the autonomous develop-
ment of the e∞nomy of Japan, Manohouku and China with
Japan as the center.
a. Establishment of a sphere of co-operative economies,
with the Japan-Manchoukuo-China group as one of the
units.
b. Inauguration of a planned economy through the eo-
operation between government and people, and espesially
the perfeotion of a unitary control system covering the
production, distribution and consumption of important
commodities.
c. Establishment of a financial soheme and reinferee»
ment or banking control, direeted toward the develej-
mont of the mation's total ecenomie power.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
d. Renovation of the foreign trade peliey o a
adapt it to the new world situation.
. Establishment of the measures for self-surrisiemey
in the people's daily necessities especially in 
prinoipal foodsturfs.
f. An epoch-making expansion of the vital industries
espcially heavy, chemical and machine industries.
g. An epoch-making promotion of soience, and ratiemali-
zation of produetion.
h. Perfection and ertension of the communication and
transportation facilities so as to adapt them to the
new developments at home and abroad.
i. Establishment of land development plans aiming at
the enhancement of the total national strength.
j. Inauguration of permanent masures eonserning the
promotion of the stamina and physical strength of the
nation, and especially the fundamental measures coneern-
ing the security and development of agrieulture and
agricultural communities.
k. Rectification of the inequality in individual
sacrifices incident to the execution of natiomal
policies; full operation of various welfare.measures,
and renovation of the living mode of the nation, and
the maintenance of such standard of living as will
onable the nation to lead a plain, solid and vigorous
life and to surmount the national erisis by persevering
truly through years of hardship.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Enelosure no. 2 to
no. 4900 dated Amgust
from the Embassy at
STATEMENT OF MR. YOSUKE MATSUOKA,
MINISTER FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
August 1, 1940.
(Informal Translation by the Foreign Offiee)
I have always said that the mission of Japan 1s to
proolaim and demonstrate the kodo(Imperial way) throughout
the world. Viewed from the standpoint of international re-
lations, this amounts, I think, to mabling all nations and
races to find each its proper place in the world. Aseeratmg
the immediate aim of our foreign polioy at present is to
establish, in accordance with the lofty spirit of the kede.
a great East Asian chain of common prosperity with the
Japan-Manchoukuo-China group as one of the links. We
shall thus be able to demonstrate the kodo in the most ef-
fective manner, and pave the way toward the establishment
of an equitable world peace. We should be resolved to sur-
mount all obstacles, both material and spiritual, lying im.
our path. Furthermore, in concert with those friendly Powers
which are prepared to co-operate with us, we should strive
with courage and determination for the fulfilment of the
ideal and the heaven-ordained mission of our country.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.94)
121653
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.00
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 11, 1940
RA
2
ML
力
2
Mukden's 465, July 25, 1940, ω
entry into the Japanese cabinet of
Mr. Naoki Hoshino.
Mukden reports that Mr. Hoshind
has been in effect chief executive
of "Manchukuo" since July 1, 1937
when he bacame Director of the
General Affairs Board.
It is noted that he is a
Christian and is credited with the
new and effective opium policy of
Manchuria.
CC
FE:Coxille:OIL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
5
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
vision
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STALE
OF THE
SEP5-1940
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Department of 
1940 SEP 3 AM 9 51
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
Mukden, Manohuria
AND RCCOD
July 25, 1940
SUBJECT: Resignation and Entry into the Japanese Cabinet
of Mr. Naoki Hoshino, Direotor of the
General Arfairs Board; Appoint-
ment of Mr. Rokuzo Takeba
Por Thatthuti-vi-Chork
THE HONORABLE
Omde
No
G
To Roll
For
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
Parsous
In U S.A.
ONI MID
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
COPIES SENT TO
412/40
I have the honor to enolose herewith a copy of
my Despatch No. 465 dated. July 25, 1940 to the Amerioan
Embassy, Peiping, China, entitled "Resignation and mtry
into the Japanese Cabinet of Mr. Naoki Hoshino, Director
of the General Affairs Board; Appointment of Mr. Rokuzo
Takebe".
Department of State
COMMERCIAL APFAIRS
SEP 2 1940
DIVISION OF
Very respeotfully your
FILED
J Trahom Pareons
J. Graham Parsons
Amerioan Vice Consul
Enclosure:
Copy of Despatoh No. 435
F/B
to the Embassy, Peiping.
In quintuplicate to the Department.
800
JGP:wyP

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.89)
121655
THE PORRLON SENNICE
No. 465.
UNITED STATES OF ANERIGA
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
SUBSBOT :
Resigmation and Matry into the Japamese
ter of the Gemeral Affairs Board
Appointment of Mr. Rokume
Takebe.
The Honerable
Melsem Trusler Joknsen,
Ameriean Ambassador,
Peipins, Chimm.
sir:
I have the homer te report that Mr. Meoki Meshime,
Direetor of the Gemeral Affairs Beard of the "amehakme"
state Ceuneil resigmed en July 21 to acsept appeimsments
as Minister without Portfelie in the mow Kemeye eabimes
of Japan and President of the Planming Beard and that
Mr. Bekuse Takebe, at present Vice Presidemt of the
Planning Board in Tokye was en July as appeinted to
sueceed him.
Mr. Hoshimo's resigmation brought te a elese eighs
years ef service in "anehukue" during the last three and
half of whieh he held the pest of Direeter of the Gemeral
Affairs Beard. simee July 1, 1989, w hem the Gevermmemt
ef "anekukue" was centeret* in the beard ef whten ne
Mant an' s No. 119, may 00, 100p to the Babesa, Polpiag
(eepies to Department) emtitled "mefermation of
'Manehakso' Geverament System".

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.91)
121656
● 8 -
was Direster, he has beem in effeet ehter emeusive ef
"Mancekukue" and the leeding figure in all impertant
matienal develepmemts* suak as the Five Tear Plan of
ecemomie develepment and integraties with Jagen. Despite
the mounting preblems ef the past year he leaves with his
reputation for admimistrative ability and emergy wmteraishes.
Mr. Rekase Takebe who sueeeeds Mr. Meshime is remen-
bered in Manehuria for his werk as Direeter of the wemtune
Bureau in the Japanese Eabassy at Bsinking frem less to
19ss and fer kis aetivity in making arrangemests fer the
withdrewal of Japanese extraterritorial rights. The
press reports that he speaks Germen and is femiliar with
the eomomy of the Reiek.
The chenge of persomalities at the atmimistretive
cere of "Manehukuo" is mot expested to result in a ehange
of peliey: the Prime Minister in a culogy of Mr. Hoshime
on July 22 has already made this clear. The imterest ef
the shange lies rather in the svidemse it gives of the
meothly fumetioning administrative umity ef Japan and
"anehukrue". Overmight ene eareer eivil servent - Mr.
Hoshine served many years in the Japamese Fimanee
Department - returas to Japan as a Cabimet Minister
and amether eareer mam, experieneed both in Japan and
Mamehuria, is appeinted without delay and moves frem
Tokyo to minking.
Mr. Meshime's appoistment is alse inseresting in
another respect for he is the first mManehukuo" official
to amter the Japanese eabinet and the feet that he dees
* A Gristian, . Nechine 1s eredited with the now and
esteetive eplum erediestien peliey er "Manehukse".

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.88)
121657
- 8 -
se direetly fren minking makes the presedent mere striking.
In Tokye he will find twe eelleaguss with reeemt em-
perienee in Mamekuria, the War Msister, Liess. Gemeral
Biki Toje (Onief of staff of the Mantums Ammy, 190r-l908)
and the Fereigm Minister, Mr. Yosuke matesskm (Presieems
of the South Manekuria mibrey, 19ss-lese). he cheies
for the Komeye cabimet of three ecntemperery celemial
aéministratore suggests the expanding impertamee of the
cemtimsmtal base in Manehuria. Mr. Heshimo's eppeiatmeat
also muggests that the effieient integratien af that base
with Japan's esonomy requires a "Mamshukue" represemtetive
within the rokyo eabinet.
Very respeetfully yours,
J. Grakam Pareens
Ameriean Viee Cemsal
Five copies to Department by Despateh No. ---
dated July 85, 1940.
Cepy to Mabassy, Changking.
Cepy to mbassy, Tekye.
Cepy to Cemsulate Gemeral, Marbin.
Copy to Cemsulate, Dairen.
800
JOP
A true copy of
the signed origi-
mal. umr

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTEBN APFAIRS
FROM
SEP5-1940
HR
GRAY
Department of State
Tokyo
Dated September 4, 1940
Rec'd 11:40 a.m.
894.002/424
SEcretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
Washington.
O.N.I. AND M.J.D.
790, BEptEmber 4, 10 p.m.
ThE press this Evening reports that Admiral
Yoshida, Navy Minieter, has been forced to enter the
Naval Hospital beccuse of serious illness. It is
suggested that in view of the current situation Admiral
SEP
Yoshida may bE rEplaced in thE Cabinet.
FILED
ThE Naval Attache was informed by the JapanesE
51840
894,002
Senior Aide today that Admiral Yoshida had in faot
Entered the hospital but that the Minister was not Ex
pected to remain in the hospital morE than two or three
days. ThE SEnior AidE refused to comment on the
possibility of Admiral Yoshida's bEing replaced by
F
another officer.
B
The Naval Attache requests that the Navy Department
bE informed.
GREW
TFV

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of Prince Konoye as President
of the Privy Council, reported. Yoshimi
Ichihara replaces Konoye.
aa
894.002/425
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel # 489, 7pm
See
(Deepatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated ... June.24...1940
Japan (Grew).
To
894.00/912
File No.
U. S. GOVERNUENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1540

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Possible changes in Japanese Cabinet.
Report concerning indications of -,
suggesting that Prince Konoye may
be the next Prime Minister.
aa
894.002/426
For the original paper from which reference is taken
tel # 528, 2pm
See
(Despatok, telegram, lastruction, letter, eto.)
July 2, 1940
From
Japan (Grew).
Dated
To
794.00/183
File No.
U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTIN OPFICS 1-1849
894.007

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese Cabinet.
The entire cabinet resigned this afternoon.
894.002/ 427
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Tel.#585 7pm
(Despatok, telegram, tastruction, letter, eto.)
From Japan (Grew)
Dated July 16,1940
To
File No. 894.00/919
N
S. GOVERNMIDNT PRINTING GPPICE 1-1540

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Resignation of Japanese Cabinet.
Press reports regarding - commented upon. Prince Konoye only
person suggested by press as likely to receive Imperial
command to form new cabinet.
894.002/428
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ..Tel.#580.5pm
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastruction, letter, eto.)
DatedJuly17.1940
From
Japan (Gre)....
To
File No. ...894.00/920
U. 6. SOVNT PRNTING OPFICE 1-1540

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
FE
ATP
PLAIN
TOKYO
Dated July 17, 1940
Rec'd 6:46 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington.
.580, Ju1y 17, .5 p.m.
This morning's press reporting resignation Yonai
Cabinet virtually unanimous stating political change
8
necessary now to (a) strengthen national unity through
te
"new political structure" and (b) "revitalizE strengthen"
0
0
Japan's foreign policy. Describing sequence events
leading up Premier Yonais resignation practically all
7
0
newspapers state resignation grew out of graduelly
widening divergenoe opinion between "army and cabinet"
Reported tnat July nine War Winister conferencE with Premier
urged latter take steps strengthen internal political
structure and Emphasized inevitability change Japan's
foreign policy. No concrete steps taken subsequently
by Prenier accordingly Wor Minister July fourteen sent
Premier Yonai written comunication reiterating arms
views. (Yomiuri purporting to give summary this document
states as follows:
"To copE successfully with difficulties during present
great world changes, nations internal structure must be
9
strengthened

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- #500 Ju1y 17 5 p.m.
from Tokyo
strengthened, diplomacy must be renovated. To continue
present hesitation indecision will lose to Japan its great
opportunity. Public has lost confidence in present Govern-
ment through Cabinet's failurE successfully to denl with
Changing world situation. This will adversely affect
settlement of incident, therefore, now necessary
Estcblish new domestic foreign policies. Premier should
consider resignation **** new structure capable form-
ulating Executing donestic foreign policies must be
Estcclished").
Two. At Cabinet meeting yesterdny morning Hata and
Premier unable agree and Hata resigned. Since impossible
obtcin successor to Hatn Entire Cabinet decided resign.
Three. Prince Konoye only person suggested by press
as likely receive Imperial commond form new cabinet.
Considered logicnl choice becnusE closE connection
present movement establishment "new political structure"
following dissolution present politiccl porties. Yosuke
Matsuoka, former Preoident, SiR and Shiratori, former
Ambacsador Italy, considered most likely canuidates Foreign
Minister. Press confidently expects choicE will bE made
today.
Repected to Shonghoi. Shanghai please repeat to
Peiping and Chungking.
GREW
DDM

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Cabinet of Japan.
Formulation of foreign policy by - reported. Retirement of the
Yonai Cahinet commented upon. The Cabinet just constituted
is on the whole conservative in complexion.
894.002/429
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ....Tel.#613..6pm
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastruction, letter, eto.)
From/ Japan (Grew)
DatedJuly.23,1940
To
File No. 894.00/934
N
U. 8. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1540

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.92)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Konoye Cabinet.
Same was formally invested last night.
894.002/430
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...Tel.#61l. 10am
(Despatoh, telegram, fastruction, letter, etc.)
From Japan (Grew)
Dated July23,1940
To
File No. ..894.00/932
N
U. S. GOVERNENT PRINTINE OPFICE 1-1840
14

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
FE
atp
GRAY
TOKYO
Dated July 23, 1940
Rec'd 12;48 a.m.
SEcretary of State,
Washington
611, Ju1y 23, 10 a.m.
KonoyE Cabinet was formally invested last night,
894.002
its composition bEing as indicated in our 608. Matsuoka
is concurrently Minister for Overseas Affairs.
GREW
TFV

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Masayuki Tani, Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Press today reports resignation of -.
894.002/431
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel.#617 5pm
(Despqtoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
From/ Japan (Grew)
Dated July 25, 1940
To
894.00/935
File No.
U. 5. GOVNNENT PRUTING OPFICE 1-1B40
43,

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
GRAY
atp
TOKYO
Dated July 25, 1940
REc'd 6:50 a.m.
SEcretaty of State,
Washington
te
617, July 25, 5 p.m.
The press today reports the resignation of Masayuki
894.002
Tani as VicE Minister for Foreign Affaris
GREW
PEG
0
3

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Mr. Matsuoka told Ambassador Steinhardt
that when he accepted post, Prince
Konoye promised to remain in office not
less than 10 years amd that he and the
Prime Minister expected to control the
Army.
894.002/432
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel.#746 3 p m
See
(Deepatoh, telegram, imstraolion, letter, ela.)
Japan - Grew
From
Dated ........Aug..26..1940
To
761.94/1209
File No.
B. 5. 0VNT PRNNG PI 1-180
bb

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Appointment of Matsuoka as Japanese
Foreitn Minister.
Sawada referred to the - with
satisfaction.
rr
For the original paper from which reference is taken
STl. 125. 8.Dm
(Dospatok, telegram, tastraction, letter, els.)
From
Dated .....July..21...1940
France. (Murphy at Vichy)
To
File No. .....851.00/2038
0..  

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Appointment of Matsuoka as Japanese
Foreitn Minister.
Sawada referred to the - with
satisfaction.
894.002/433
rr
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel. #125. 8 pama
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated .....July.2l...1940.
France.(Murphy at Vichy)
To
File No. ......851.00/2038
B. S. GOVENNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1-1840

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
JR
PLAIN
Tokyo
Dated July 22, 1940
REc1d 10:43 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
608, twenty-sEcond.
894.002
It is reliably rEported that KonoyE has succeeded
in forming a government end that formal investiture which
is scheduled for this Evening awaits thE arrival in Tokyo
of two prospEctivE menibErs thE Cabinct is to bE
composed s follows:
OnE. Minister for Forcign Affairs Yosuke Matsumoka
represcntativc at League of Notions in 1932 later President
South Manchuria Railway Cabinet CounsElor.
Two. liinister for omE Affirs and concurrently
Hinister of HElfare Eiji Yosui member of HousE of Peers
formerly liinister Education.
Thrct. iinister of FinancE Isao Kawata member HousE
of Peere fonmcrly Secretary of Cabinct Precident of Toa
Kaiun (East Abia Shioping Company).
Four. Linicter of 'ar LiEutEnant GenEral Hideki Tojo
previously VicE Hinister Var Director GEnErel of Aviation.
Five. inister of MarinE VicE Admiral ZEngo Yoshida
6
incumoent sincE Au ust lost.
3
Six.
0

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- G08, July 22, from Tokyo.
Six. jinister of JusticE Akira Kazami mEmber Lower
Houst Chief Sacretary firat KonoyE Cabinst.
SevEn. Minister of Education KunishidE Hashida Doctor
of liEdicinE Instructor at Imperial UnivErsity President of
First Higher School.
Eight. Minister of AgriculturE and Forestry Tadaatou
Ishikuro VicE Minister AgriculturE and Forestry in Okada
Cabinct President Central Bank of thE Industrial Association.
NinE.  inicter of CommercE and Industry Ichizo
Kobayashi President Tokyo Electric Company.
Ten. Hinister of Conmunicctions and Railways Shozo
Murata President Osake ShocEn Kaisha.
ElEven. inister vithout Portfolio Naoki Hoshino
Director CEnEral Affairs Bureau of ianchukuo.
GRE!
CSB

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
New member of the Japanese Cabinet.
Vikawa, Admiral Koshiro. Appointment of - as Navy
Ninister to succeed Yoshida who resigned.
894.002/435
jb
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel /800.5 pm
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Dated September 5.1940
From
Japan (Grew)
To
File No.  SEE 894.00/952
44

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
RDS
PLAIN
TOKYO VIA SHA NGHAI & N.R.
Dated SEptember 5, 1940
REc'd 11:40 p.m., 6th
Secretary of State,
washington.
800, SEptEmbEr 5, 5 p.m.
Fress announced this afternoon Admiral Koshiro
Mikawa today appointed Navy Minister to succeed Yoshida
who rEsigned yEsterday. Mikawa formerly Conmander-in-
0
Chief Yokosuka naval station.
952
GREW
EMB

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Speculative comment concerning subject matter of any extre-
ordinary Cabinet meeting.
Press ban placed on-, according to American newspaper corres-
pondent.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel #853: 8pm
(Doapaloh, telogram, imstruotlom, lotter, eta.)
Dated .._.Sept 17,.1940
From
Japen (Grew)
To
894.918/35
File No.
FRG
436

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
was
October 8, 1940.
JWB
Chungking's 655, Septem-
ber 6, 1940, Chinese Comment on
the Return of Prince Konoye to
Power: Present Situation in Japar
In the Central Daily Newe
of August 31, 1940, in an
editorial which the Chungking
Embassy considers representative,
the view is expressed that the
new Japanese Government will find
it impossible to terminate the
China hostilities or to achieve
Japanese designs in the South
Seas.
894.002/437
CC
FE:CoviIle:FR

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.97)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 655.
Chungking, September 6, 1940
Subject:
Chinese Comnent on the Return of
Prince Konoye to Power: Present
Situation in Japan.
Air mail
2
940  10
Division of
FAR EASTEDNAFFAIRS
1-1940
Dopotmert of 
8
6
4
.00
O
Grade
2
For
4
894.002
The Honorable
FILED
The Secretary of State,
793.94
2.1940
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose as of probable interest
1/
to the Department the substance in translation of a lead-
ing article which appeared in the Aucust 31, 1940 issue
of the Central Daily News, official organ of the Kuomintang,
on the subject "Enemy Militarists in Embarrassed State".
The translation is transmitted because it is representative
of a great many articles which have appeared recently in
the Chungking press in relation to Japan and its alleged
difficulties in the licht of the resumption of the premier-
F
ship by Prince Konoye. voth the vernacular press and
Chinese officials profess to believe that Prince Konoye
B
has re-emerged in an endeavor to stave off the dilemma
with which Japan is said now to be confronted; and the
belief is also commonly prevalent in Chungking that Prince
Konoye will fail to achieve the two objects which are
regarded

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
regarded at this time as vitally urgent to Japan, namely
(1) settlement of the "China incident" and (2) achieve-
ment of Japanese designs in the South Seas. Certain
informed Chinese officials have predicted to Embassy
officers that the failure of Prince Konoye to settle
the "China incident" will by the end of the present
year precipitate the downfall of his cabinet and the
possible emergence of a full-fled ed military dictator-
ship.
The article portrays Japan as caught in a dilemma
by reason of its inability to liquidate the "China
incident". Iot only can Japan not overcome China and
thus move into the South Seas, but Ja an is unable to
match other world powers in the current armaments race.
Konoye is organizing the "new political structure" in
an endeavor to overcome Japan's difficulties but he
will fail because of inability to solve the"China
incident"; reliance on negotiations with Wang Ching-
wei is of no avail. The only way out for Japan is to
wi thdraw from China. ut in view of their violence
and stupidity, the Japanese militarists may not be
expected to solve the dilemma in this way, but will go
forward until they destroy themselves.
Sumary. A representative Chinese
editorial pictures the Japanese militarists
as in a dilemma from which, despite the re-
emergence of Konoye, they have not the
coura e or sagacity to extricate themselves.
Chinese officialdom and press profess to
believe that the new Konoye cabinet will
fall after a brief existence because of
inability to liquidate the "Cnina incident".
Respectfully yours,
Netem Iualu nueod
Nelson Trusler Johnson
Enclosure:
1/ Substance in translation of leading
article appearing in Central Daily News
Original (by air mail) and four copies to Department
Copy to Peiping
Copy to Tokyo.
800
EFD:MCL

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Emolosure no. 1 to despatch no. 655 dated September 6,
1940 from Amerioan Embassy at Chungking on subjeet of
"Chinese Comment on the Return of Prinoe Konoye to
Power: Present Situation in Japan".
SOURCE: CENTRAL DAILY NEWS
Chungking, August 31, 1940
ENEMY MILITARISTS IN EMBARRASSED STATE
Konoye, the enemy premier, announced that beginning
August 28 he would try to enforce the "new politioal
struoture". While his main objective is the construotion
of a high state of national defence, the first goal to be
attained is in fact the "satisfactory settlement of the
China incident" whereby Japan may seize the opportunity
to advance southward and plunder the Far Eastern colonies
of various European and American powers. The duration of
the revamped Konoye cabinet, therefore, depends on the
future of the "new political structure" or, more precisely,
on whether it is possible to end the war in China. Whether
the war with China can be brought to end depends on the
method that Japan may adopt in effecting the conolusion
thereof. In case the Japanese militarists, especially
Konoye, who is responsible for starting the war three
years ago, still fail to understand the spirit of China's
armed resistance and repent their mistake, and in case they
still insist on their erroneous policy of compelling China
to surrender by force, their hope of ending the war with
China can never be attained, the Japanese feet of clay
can never leave the Chinese quagmire, and Japan will not
dare lightly to run the risk of realizing its ambition of
advancing southwara so long as it has no way of terminating
the war in China. This is clearly inuicated in Japan's
attitude towards Indochina. Although Japan has heightened
its pressure and presented more demands, these are merely
trial balloons, at least for the present. In Europe, France
has been defeated and has sued for peece - it is even unable
to take care of itself. But the Japat. se militarists still
hesitate to occupy its colony - Indochina. It may be seen
that Japan also desires to seize other French colonies in
the South Seas but is not powerful enough to doso. The
Sino-Japanese war has entered its fourth year. China has
actually caused the Japanese militarists to fall into a
hopeless and embarrassing state.
What the Japanese militarists worry about most is
Japan's national defence. In comparison with other powers,
Japan is too far behind. It not only can not attain
hegemony of the Far East, but is also unable to compete
on the Pacific. This is why Konoye has appealed for a
"new structure". The armament plans of past years were
totally destroyed by the outbreak at Lukouohiao. Now,
Japan is witnessing the expansion of the United States
Navy and oan do nothing apart from sitting and sighing.
This is naturally the result of its aggression in China.
Whon

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
When war broke out in Europe, Japan again considered
that a "magic wind" had come but it still oan not "rob
the house on fire" owing to the hostilities in China.
Now that France, the Netherlands and other nations have
been defeated in Europe, it seems there are opportunities
available to Japan. However, the Far Eastern polioy of
the United States has become more resolute and appeals
for Anglo-American cooperation in the Far East and con-
clusion of an agreement therefor have been universally
discussed. Although this still remains to be confirmed,
it is not improbable that the American-Canadian joint defence
plan may be extended to include American-Australian, Anglo-
American and American-Dutoh, territories in the Pacifio
region. Consequently, Japan may be dreaming of the seizure
of resources from the South Seas to replenish what it has
consumed in the hostilities of the past three years and to
meet the needs for the construction of high-grade national
defence hereafter; this will remain a dream under the
present ciroumstances. For this reason, i.e., if Japan
can not at present take possession of the South Seas with
a view to supplying it with resources, it is not in a
position to follow the steps of other world powers. Even
if Japan disregards everything and blindly advanoes southward,
irrespective of whether the Japanese Navy is willing to do
so, it is clearly understood that Japan will have no spare
strength to provoke war against a world power before it has
any satisfactory way of bringing the war in China to a
conclusion. Who has caused Japan, which is ambitious of
expanding southward, to be so embarrassed? We may say it
is General Chiang Kai-shek, who has been leading China's
armed resistance for the past three years; and we may also
say that it is the Japanese militarists who are foolish,
blind and willing to be the "falcons and dogs" of the "rule of
might".
The Japanese militarists desire vut are unable to advance
southward, and so will have to end the "China incident" first.
But their tactics for ending the war are contrary to their
hopes. They wished to attain the goal through the traitor,
Wang Ching-wei; but Rebel Wang's shamelessness has been
entirely revealed and he can be of no assistance to the
Japanese militarists. Wang is, as considered internationally,
siply the final puppet. Although in four or five months
after Abe's arrival in Manking secret talks were held on
more than ten occasions, and it looks as though from the
revelation and implementation of "secret agreements" the
"Japano-Wang Agreement" will be concluded, such agreement
is nothing more than worthless paper like the agreements
revealed by Kao (Tsung-wu) and Tao (Hsi-sheng). It is just
like "a madman talking in his dreams" if it is thought that a
scrap of waste paper will prevent the Jational Government
from resisting aggression and will deprive China of its
rights and interests. Furthermore, the Chung Hwa Jih Pao,
sponsored by traitors, has also stated "peace talks in
Nanking are vague" and even No. 1 puppet, Wang Ching-wei,
has also said "the peace move is bound to fail unless good
terms are procured". Exoepting those who have no souls,
no one will believe that "one may obtain good peace terms"
by lying in the breast of the Japanese like Wang Ching-wei,
nor will one think that the so-called "peace talks" be-
tween Japanese militarists and Rebel Wang will end the war
between China and Japan.
How,

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
How, then, will the Japanese militarists be able to
get their olay feet out of the Chinese quagmire? There is
no way other than voluntarily to withdraw Japanese forees
and return the ocoupied areas. China's armed resistanoe is,
from beginning to the end, for self-defence and, for this
reason, China does not hesitate to fight desperately with
the enemy forces wherever the latter are present. So long
as the aggressors are not withdrawn, China will oontinue to
resist. It is also for this reason that we will restore
peace only when the enemy really repent, withdraw their
forces and return to us the ocoupied areas, whereby we
attain the goal of maintaining our territorial and adminis-
trative integrity, thus insuring our independence, freedom
and existence. It is therefore not diffioult to restore
peace in the Far East. The difficulty lies in the enemy's
violence and ignorance. They will not repent until they
themselves learn the lesson of becoming homeless slaves.
On the one hand, they are anxiously expecting a quick
conclusion of Sino-Japanese hostilities, but on the other
hand they are not courageous enough to admit their own
mistake and wi thdraw their troops from China. In suoh a
painful, embarrassed state the Japanese militarists now
final themselves. Mencius said "evil brought on by
oneself will cost one his life". This is an apt desoription
of the Japanese militarists today.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
HSM
GRAY
Tokyo via Shanghai & N
Dated October 1, 1940
Red'd 2 a. ms, 2nd
Division of
Seoretary of StatCUrIES SENT TO
FAR EASTERN MFAURS
Washington.
ep.:ment of State
926, October 1, 6 p. m:
Following nEw members of the Cabinet were
appointed by thE Emperor on SEptember 28
Minister of Railways: Gotaro Ogawa, formerly
Minister of CommercE and Industry in thE Hirota Cabinet;
894.002988
Minister for Overseas Affairs: Kiyoshi Akita, former
NO
Speaker of thE Lower HousE; Minister of Welfare: Tounco
(e)
98
Kanemitsu, former Minister of Overseas Affairs in the
Abe Cabinet.
Sent to the DEpartment via Shanghai.
OCT4-1940
FILED
GREW
TFV
F/B

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.88)
ISSUED BY THE INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, OFFICE OF CHIEF OF
NAVAL OPERATIONS, NAVY DEPARTMENT
ATTACHÉ'S REPORT
qulekdy dieseminating information from attaobés. These copies will be distributed by O. N. I. as per footnote or alsewhere,
From /A Tokye Date &mgmat 7, 19.40 Serial No.
File No.
(Çommepoe new veries
each January fint)
frem O. N. I. Indae)
Subject
Japan
Political Partias = Prinsipal Leader
(Nation reported on)
(Index title as per inder sheet)
(Bubdtle)
Reference
Baixs. -(The revlew, indexing, and distribution of reports by O. N. I. will be greatly expedited if a brisf pummary of the contents ls antered 
this spaos. Mention leading geographical, personal, or political names, and the gist of the report.)
SECOND KONOYK CABINET
The Sesond Koneye Cabinet has been organized with Aray
support to:
894.002/439
(a) sreate a "national defenss state" on Fascist lines;
(B) take advantage of the presens "golden eppertuntty"
to seize Freneh, British, and Duteh possessiens in the Western
Pasifie Area.
The Cabimet is movins slowly, but is making preparatioms
to acsomplish these objeetives. Much depends on the sueesss
ef the expeeted Garmen attaek on Eagland sinee Jayan feels
that she must wait the cutoome of that struggle berore teking
definite aetion to align herself against Great Britaim amd
the Unised States.
894.002
Division of
FAR EASTERN IRS
SEP1940
CTC 1940
FILED
794.00
Distribution:
DNI
CinCAF
60m 16
Rrciping
F/B
K/K Tokyo
An/ Shm nghal
H H Smith-Kutten,
Lt.-Comdr., U.S.Navy,
Haval Attashe
3.
Chaok dartaatlo of the varlona sbpae on ell copia Iraw clne around she doaiwetlan a ths srpy intasded f sho pertisaiar dastimasies so eneiroed
Directer
B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4. B-16, B-11,
A-B-C-D-E
Meare-
Arch
ireg
Bragel
C. N. O.
Baard
Gen'l
CoBece
Wer
M.L.D.
Nar.
Ord.
Y.&D.
C.aR.
Eng.
S.&A.
M.&S.
Aera
U.S.
H.O.
B-12. B-13, 8-14, B-15, B-16
Teck
Drav.
C.mC.
Bal. For.
Com.
Sta. Fer.
Cat.
C.C
Aeia
S.S.S.
Carn.
Corm.
Attaché et
Cog.Dir.
Dperatione
W. Con.
FL.Tr.
Con-
L
Resm No.
Usa foms tor all copies. Uss only forms aa supplied by O. N. I. Make all aketches, sto, unifom in sizs with this form where practical. Submit estra copies
of clipptags, carbons of sketches, sto., whare practical. II prncticatic, submit aketobes in suitable styles for blneprinting or photostating.
U.S. COVERNNENY PRINTING OFFICE
4-502

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 122
l04 - Politioal Parties
200 - Principal Leaders
Japan
August 7, 1940
SECOND KONOYE CABINET
The Second Konoye Cabinet which was formally invested
on 22 July is made up as follows:
Office
Name
AgO
Prime Minister
Prince Fumimaro Konoye
50
Foreign Minister
Yosuke Matsuoka
60
(concurrently
Overseas Minister)
Navy Minister
Vice Admiral Zengo Yoshida
55
War Minister
Lt.General Hideki Tojo
56
Home Minister
Eiji Yasui
50
(concurrently
Welfare Minister)
Finance Minister
Isao Kawada
57
Justice Minister
Akira Kazami
54
Education Minister
Kunihiko Hashida
58
Agriculture and
Tadaatsu Ishiguro
56
Forestry Minister
Commerce and
Ichizo Kobayashi
67
Industry Minister
Communications
Shozo Murata
62
Minister (concurrently
Railway Minister)
Minister without
Naoki Hoshino
48
Portfolio (concur-
rently Director of
Cabinet Planning
Board)
The policies which the Cabinet will follow in foreign
and domestic affairs are still unrevealed; the vague and
indefinite statements which have been made by the Prime Minister
and other members of the Cabinet giving little indication of
any concrete plan or plans. It is apparent, however, that
there will be changes, or the Konoye Cabinet will also be foroed
to resign after a very brief period in office, in spite of the
fact that it now has the support of the Army, the people and
the various political groups.
In considering the probable policies of new government,
it is of interest to note the reasons why the Army foroed the
resignation of the Yonai Cabinet. Admiral Yonai had been
following the policies of the previous Prime Ministers as
regards the China Inoident, but had:
Report No. 122-40

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
port No. 122-40
/2/
(a) refused to lend active support to the one-party
plan sponsored by Rightest Groups and the Army, with Prince
Konoye as the nominal head.
(b) refused to consider any steps which might align
Japan definitely with Germany and Italy as opposed to Great
Britain and the United States.
(c) refused to abandon the policy of "non-involvement"
in the European war, thereby, according to his critios, missing
the present "golden opportunity" to expand southward at the
expense of the British, Frenoh and Dutch.
It oan be safely assumed, therefore, that the present
Government will change the above policies and will adopt, as
long range plans, the following:
(a) an effort will be made to form a new political
structure which will inolude all factions and groups. The
exact nature of this structure is not clear, even to the leaders
of the movement, but it is certain that great difficulties will
attend the formation of a single Fascist or Nazi party organi-
zation. It is expected that concrete steps will be taken in
the near future and that Prince Konoye will issue a statement
sometime this month.
(b) Japan will be transformed into a "national defense
state", and an even larger part of the energies, and wealth of
the nation will be devoted to national defense. To accomplish
this, three men who have had long experience and moderate success
in transforming Manohukuo into such a state have bcen given
key positions in the Cabinet. The se men are Foreign Minister
Matsuoka, War Minister Tojo, and Minister without Portfolio
(Director of the Cabinet Planning Board) Hoshino. More striot
government control of all phases of national economy and a
lowering of the standard of living of the people have already
been predioted by Mr. Hoshino.
(c) The "yen bloo" plan will be accelerated, and plans
for economic cooperation among Japan Manchukuo and China will be
pushed. In partioular, an effort will be made to increase the
supply of raw materials from China and Manchukuo to Japan.
(a) Without losing sight of the importance of a speedy
settlement of the China Incident, Japan will begin the "Southward
Aavance" as soon as a good opportunity presents itself. Prepara-
tions for this advance have al ready been made by the Army and
Navy. The first attack (or"protective occupetion") will probably
be made on French Indo China since such a move will not involve
Japan in a war with Great Britain end Holland, and will, in
Japanese opinion, probably not arouse the United States to the
point of breaking off relations or placing an embargo on materials
to Japan. When French Indo China is occupied, and if and when
the British are defeated in Europe, Japanese plans for the
Netherlands Indies will be started.
(e) While Japan will take no immediate action to align
herself with Germany or Italy, her policy of expanding southward
will inevitably bring her closer to the se powers. She will, et
the same time, try to prevent being isolated in order that she
will not have to face either Soviet Russia or the United States
unaided.
Report No. 122-40

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
Report No. 122-40
/3/
It is difficult at this time to predict either the success
or the failure of the Second Konoye Cabinet, since so much
depends on the ability displayed by the government in regiment-
ing industry and the life of the people. At the same time
events in China, Europe and the United States have a tremendous
bearing on Japan's future. The fact that Japan has been greatly
weakened by the strain of three years' hostilities in China
must not be lost sight of, and the fact that at the present
time there are serious shortages of almost all important commo-
dities must be borne in mind. Japan has displayed remarkable
and unexpeoted strength in oarrying on the China Incident, but
she has been able to carry on because of her free access to the
markets of the world. Without these markets,- which would be
largely lost in the event of a war with Great Britain or the
United States,- the situation would be completely changed. It
is to be seriously doubted whether Japan, in her present
exhausted state, could carry on a ma jor war with Soviet Russia,
Great Britain or the United States for more than a year without
collapsing completely.
Report No. 122-40

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
ARV2-1940
CASTERN AFTAIRS
ootober 30, 1940.
Tokyo's despatch no. 4994, Septem-
ber 21, 1940, "Organization of a New
Cabinet Intelligenae Bureau".
Aocording to the despatoh the final
desision has not yet been made nor com-
plete details announced regarding the
Cabinet Intelligence Bureau, but it appears
that the Director General of the new bureau
will take over the duties of Government
spokesmen and the new bureau will assume
the funotions of the Information Bureau of
the Foreign Office; that the publioation,
distribution and sale of books now con-
trolled by the Home Ministry will be con-
trolled by the new bureau as will the
censormhip of motion pictures, theatrical
and other similar amusements, as well as
the control of radio broadoasts now under
the Ministry of Communications.
The despatch concludes by stating
that this consolidation shows that the
Japanese authorities, through the creation
of the Mew Intelligence Bureau, place
great importance on the functions of
propaganda, censorship and dissemination
of information in an authoritarian state.
FE:HRF:FRE

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN S
NOV 2- 1940
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMI
AMERICAN EMBASBY
Tokyo, September 21
No. 4994.
SUBJECT: ORGANIZATION OF A NEW CABINET INTELLIGENCE BURRAL
C
H.7
1040
Doportment of Sa
6
PA  SA
State
16
Caly in FE
2
COAIONS
ECVED
DINISION OF
C')
PHA
0
For nxtr hution-Check
Grade
ofi 1.1
For
In U.S.A.
1940 0C
OHI MID
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
The Honorable
NOV 6三1940
894.002
FILED
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's telegram
894.002/419
no. 723, August 21!7
b.m., in whioh the decision of the
894.202
Japanese Government to organize a new Cabinet Intelligenee
Bureau was reported. Although considerable activity was
evident in the first moves taken last month toward organizing
this bureau through an expansion of the present Cabimet
Iatelliges

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
Intelligence Office, final decision has not been an-
nounced nor have oomplete details been made publie.
Sufficient material in the vernacular press to make
worth while a short summary has, however, been forth-
coming.
The following ten important Govermment officials
were seleoted to study reorganization plans and to report
to the Cabinet:
Mr. Murase, Director of the Cabinet Legis-
lative Bureau;
Mr. Ito, Director, Cabinet Intelligence Bureau;
Mr. Suma, Direetor of the Information Bureau,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
Major General Matsumura, Direotor of the Intelli-
gence Bureau, Ministry of War;
Rear Admiral Kanazawa, Direotor of the Edueation
Bureau, Navy Ministry;
Mr. Fujihara, Direotor or the Police Bureau,
Home Ministry;
Mr. Taniguchi, Director or Accountants Bureau,
Finance Ministry;
Mr. Tamura, Direotor of the Eleotrio Bureau,
Communications Ministry;
Mr. Sato, Chief of the Accounting Seotion of the
Cabinet;
Mr. Numata, Director of the First Division of the
Cabinet Planning Board.
Early in September the press reported the following
general outline for the new organization: A Direetor General
will be placed in charge. He will be given the rank of a
Minister without Portfolio and be entitled to participate in
Government conferences on national polioy. The Direotor Gen-
oral will also take over from the Secretary General of the
Cabinet the duties of Government spokesman. Mr. Nobubumi Ito
has been appointed Direotor General. Formal activities of
the Bureau will be under the direot supervision of a Vice
Direetor

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
Direotor General. The Bureau will be subdivided into five
divisiona, each division to be placed in charge of an offi-
cial of chokunin rank. The five divisions will be: (a)
General Affairs Division; (b) Publicity Division; (e)
Intelligence Division; (d) Information Division: (•) In-
speotion Division.
With regard to the funotions of the new bureau, the
pross has reported the following outline:
1. The funotions and duties of the Intelligence Bureau
of the War Office and the Eduoation Bureau of the Navy Offiee
will be taken over by the new organization. The Information
Bureau of the Imperial Headquarters will continue to funetion
as heretofore, but the Imperial Headquarters announeements
to the general public will be made through the new Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau.
2. In general the funotions of the Information Bureau
of the Foreign Office will be transferred to the new Cabinet
Bureau. The telegraph seotion of the Foreign Offiee will,
however, continue its present functions and certain other
funotions of the Foreign Office Information Bureau direotly
concerned with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not be
disturbed.
3. The entire book section of the Home Ofrice will be
transferred to the new bureau. Questions of copyright will,
however, remain under the jurisdiotion of the Home Office.
The publication, distribution, and sale of books now con-
trolled by the Home Ministry will be placed under the juris-
iction of the Cabinet Intelligenee Bureau. The censorship
of

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
of moving pictures, theatrical and other similar amuse-
ments will be transferred from the control of the Ministry
of Education to the new organization.
4. With the exception of teohnioal items the control
of radio broadeasts will be transferred from the Ministry
of Communications to the Cabinet Intelligence Bureau.
5. All expenses for the new organization will tem-
porarily be paid from the second reserve fund.
There has been some intimation in the press that
eventually this new organization may be expanded to become
a Ministry of Propaganda and Information. Early in Septem-
ber the Cabinet after careful study of the proposed reorgani-
zation would reportedly be prepared to submit the entire
matter to the Privy Council. There has been no report in
the press of this step having been taken.
Heretofore responsibility for and authority over all
types of censorship and dissemination of official publioity
and propaganda, both foreign and domestic, have been diver-
sified and laoking in unity in Japan. This movement to
unite and consolidate all such activities under one authority
intimate with the highest Government oiroles clearly illus-
trates the importance placed on the functions of propaganda,
censorship, and dissemination of information and their
close relationship to the suocessful funotioning of an
authoritarian state. This development represents another
step toward political rationalization in Japan on the
basis

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
basis of striot national control and consolidated
effort of the body politic.
Respeotfully yours,
800.2
Joseph C. Grew.
MWS:C
Original and 4 copies to Department.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PLAIN
JT
FROM
TOKYO VIA SHANGHAI VIA N.R.
Dated October 22, 1940
Rec'd 6:13 p.m., 24th
Division of
SEcretary of State,
COPIES SENT TO
FAR EASTERNAAIRS
Washington.
O.N.I. AND M.LD.
10/25/40GE
Department of State
1020, October 22, 7 p.m.
894.002/441
Tokyo KOkUMIN reports KonoyE result critical condi-
tion Pacific will changE "two or three" cabinet members
Early November. Purpose create strong "war-time
cabinet".
894.002
AAHI predicts conclusion talks concerning establish-
ment joint technical commissions under tripartite alliance.
note
Commissions composed and military Economic Exports located
Tokyo BErlin. Rome uncertain. Commissions to be Entirely
governmental instrumentality.
All papers rEport Kobayshi statement issued Batavia
4
8194
yesterday. Summarized translations:
D
"Instructed return Japan by November ten. NEthenlands
Government well understood JapanesE claims Netherfand
856d.6363
T
progressing most friendly atmosphere. Netherlands offered
711.90
cErtain quantity pEtroleum. WE havE demanded greater
quantity. Negotiations making good progress expected
Enter second stage soon. Fully convinced eventual sucoees."
Summarized

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- No. 1029, OctobEr 22, 7 p.m., from Tokyo
Summarized translation ForEign OffioE spokesman statement
yesterday: "Kobayshi rEturning temporarily attend cEremony
twenty six hundredth anniversary, simultaneously report
progress negotiations, and consult government. Nogotia
tions Batavia progressing well."
All vernaculars carry New York despatoh stating
storage Amerioan submarine parts Hong Kong olear indication
711.90
future Anglo-American joint naval operations Pacifio.
Sent Department via Shanghai.
GREW
NPL

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.92)
2271-H-110
RESTRICTED
Clessißleation
Copy No.
6-5
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION
3y
MILITARY ATTACHÉ REPORT ...ARA.
Subject
Coumdry Reposted Oa
I.G. No. ...ao
Source and Degree of Reliability:
Souree: Press 'à Conversatiens with Japanese.
Rellability: Good.
the present Eurepean War.
002/442
894.002
ACEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1940
SEB
VISION OF
RECORDS
Department of State
LMSIFIED
CD lete. Nay 3. 1979
12411/73
CCT 98 1940
FILD
F/B
G-2 Distribution: 4.
Copp No. 1, m/B: 2, L/0: 8, Bootlon Fe
6.
From M. A...
Report No.20,..191... Date.
RESTRICT

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.81)
RESTRICTED
Farsizn Miaiater. Yosake Matsseka.
Mr. Matoueka 1s to hold the pest of Oversees
Mler fHr. Lieut. Generel Mideki i.
01055
to December 1938
Javn Minleter. Viee-Atmiral Songe Tochida.
The enly namber ef the Tona1 Gabines te serve
Liamme Mlalster. Isse Kameda.
cat
Eas alreety had some experiense with this mintstry
Okada Cabinet 1n 1934.
Hame Mier. Rij1 Yasui.
05
Alse helds the pest af Welfare Minister coseurreatly
Was Bémcatien Minister in the firet
Kemee Cabimet in 1937.
Mer  rilr. Tadeto Isiure.
Assccistions.
.
COF
Frems M/A, Tokye.
Repert No. 10,172
Amgmss 5, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.78)
RESTRICTED
Iam Miiater. Yosuke Matoa.
Maltar ar. Lient. Geseral neeki i.
Navz Mlaieter. Viee-stmiral Zonge Toekida.
The ealy namber of the Tenal Gabiaet to serve
Line iter. Isse Kamda.
cat
Okada Cabimet in 1934.
Hame Miaiser. Biji Yasui.
Kenee Cabimet in 1937.
Mintater f Asrienltare. Tadatsu Iahigure.
rermezly Viee-Miné ster La the came departmens and
Asscsiations.
 e. shoe mure.
OF
Prem: M/A, Tokye.
Repert No. 10,171
Amgues 3, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.85)
RESTRICTED
ter   Akira La
sure.
Miaister  Mmatien. Dr. Kuninike Nashida.
Noad of the Pirst Nigher sokeel and fermerly a
Mnlater at Cemeree an Inmatrz. Iohise Kobeyahi.
Dasil taree yeare ae the founder and direeter
oppesed to Berlin and Rome.
Narry I. T. Greewell,
military Atteehe.
主
Prems M/A, Tokye.
Ropers No. 10,191
Anguet 5, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.84)
Is
lines.
Mer  . Are Xa
ture.
Minister  MMmatin. Dr. Kminike Lacnids
ORF
General opiaien runs to the effest that as
oppesed to Berlin and Rome.
Harry I. T. Greswell
Lieut. Celonel, Aeting Gomeral Staff,
military Attaene.
主
/A
Frem: M/A, Tokye.
Ropert No. 10,171
Angust 5, 1940.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese cabinet.
No reorganization of -, contemplated by Prince Konoye.
894.002/443
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Tel.#1097, 6pm.
(Deopato, telogram, Lestraon, letes, e.)
From
Dated .....November.4,..1940....
Japan (Grsw)
To
File No. ._756d.94/100
S. GOVENT PRNTING P1EE 118

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Formation of the Konoye Ministry was discouraging
to those who had hoped for a temporary improve-
ment in Anglo-Japanese relations.
894.002/444
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See/923
(Despatoh, telogram, imstraotion, lettec, eta.)
From singapore (Patton)
Dated ....
Sept. 14, 1940
To
File No.
846d.00 P. R./80
hr

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Appointment of Naiki Hoshino and Baron Kiichiro Hiramuma
as Ministers without portfolio. Announcement of -
894.002/445
mn
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Te1 1277.9.9.m
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastraotlom, letter, eto.)
Dated
Dec.4.1940
From
Jeman (Grex)
To
File No.
894.00/ 974
894002
445

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Konoye Cabinet of Japan
Reports effect on political situation of the
appointment of Baron Hiranuma as Minister
without portfolio.
FLH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tal..1279....5. PM
(Doopato, telogram, instraollon, latter, eto.)
Dated
Dec.5.1940
From
Japan(Grev)
To
File No.
894.00/975
8. 6. G0VENMNT PR1NTING PPIE 1-1840

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
TMENT OF STATE
JAN 18 19417
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 10, 1941
Tokyo's despatch no. 5206, December 12,
1940, subject "Establishment of the Intelligone
Bureau".
The despatoh reporte that the President
of the new Intelligence Bureau is Nobufumi Ite.
who headed the former Cabinet Intelligence
Office. The new Bureau will have a vice presi-
dent, a group of counoillors not to exceed
fifteen, and it will be divided into five
divisions for (1) planning; (2) control of news
dissemination in Japan; (3) control of news and
propaganda for dissemination abroad; (4)
censorship (inoluding printed matter, enter-
tainment, et cetera); (5) propaganda (all
mediums).
The despatoh reports that the new Bureau
will absorb: The press sections of the Minis-
try of Navy and the War Office (but each will
retain a press section at Imperial Head-
quarters); the press section of the Foreign
Orfice (but press work of purely diplomatio
character will be retained); the Cultural
Section of the Foreign Office; Book Seotion of
the Ministry of Home Affairs.
The Embassy states that: The new Bureau
will centralize all censorship, collection of
information

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
1nformation and dissemination of official
propaganda; the action of the military and
naval establishments in retaining some measure
of independenoe through their sections at
Imperial Headquarters may indicate that they
do not place complete trust in the new non-
military Bureau.
894.002/447
H17
FE:Fales:HNS

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, December 12, 19
No. 5206.
INFORMATION
SUBJECT: ESTABLISEMENT OF THE INTELLISENCE
JAN181942
N7
nivicionof
ERS
A-1941
ÉEAn AE
PM 4 17
Department of
CONU ATIONS
PECLIEO
AN RDS
Cohy in 7.E
94 N 2
For Di tr burih Check
Yen
No
Grade
For
In U S.A.
O.NI,= Mt,D.
SECETAY
JAN 18 1941
COPIES SENT TO
O.N.LAND I.
002/447
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
440
Sir:
B7=194
With reference to the Embassy's despatch no 4e94,
FIL PS/GC
21
894.202
September , 1940, concerning the decision of the Japan-
ese Government to organize an Intelligence Bureau to super
sede the Cabinet Intelligence Office, I have the honor to
report that an Intelligenoe Bureau, the organization of
which corresponds in general to that anticipated in the
despateh

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
despatch under reference, was established by Imperial
Ordinance no. 846 of December 5, 1940. Translations from
the Ofricial Gazette of December 6, l940 of Imperial
Ordinance no. 846 and of supplementary regulations issued
by the Cabinet, providing for the organization of the
Bureau and the allocation of duties among its several
1/2
divisions, are enolosed.
The Bureau organization provides for a President of shinnh
rank, a Vice President of chokunin rank, a group of counoillors,
not to exceed fifteen in number, of ohokunin rank, a President's
Seoretariat, and five divisions. The funotions allotted to
the five divisions may be roughly desoribed as follows:
First Division, planning; Second Division, control of news
dissemination in Japan; Third Division, control of news and
propaganda for dissemination abroad; Fourth Division, censor-
ship (applied not only to printed matter but also to moving
pictures, theatrical performances, gramophone records, eto.),
Fifth Division, propaganda through all mediums.
According to the local press, the formerly independent
intelligence and press agencies of the several ministries
have been affeoted, as a result of the organization of this
unified Bureau, as follows:
1. The press seotion of the Navy Ministry is merged into
the new Bureau. The ohange, however, does not affeot the Naval
Press Seotion of the Imperial Headquarters, whioh will be re-
tained under the direotion of Rear Admiral Minoru Maeda.
8.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
2. The press section of the War Ofrice is dissolved.
A part of the War Office press seotion will remain, however,
as a separate organ under the jurisdiction of the Army Press
Section of the Imperial Headquarters and the Bureau of Mili-
tary Affairs. This separate organ will engage chiefly in
press work connected with the "China Affair" and the War
offioo.
3. The Information Bureau of the Foreign Office is
dissolved and its duties transferred to the new Bureau. Work
of a purely diplomatio character will be retained in the For-
eign Office, however, and be divided between two new seetions
to be created in the Researoh Bureau of the Foreign Office.
The Cultural Seotion of the Foreign Office, as well, has been
dissolved and its work divided between the new Intelligence
Bureau and the Cultural Department of the China Affairs Board.
4. The Book Section of the Ministry of Home Affairs has
been transferred to the Intelligenoe Bureau where it will be
organized as the Fourth Division of the Bureau in oharge of
censorship.
Mr. Nobufumi Ito, who headed the Cabinet Intelligenoe
Ofrice, has been installed as the first president of the
Intelligence Bureau. Informal announcement has appeared oon-
cerning officials to be named to head the President's Seore-
tariat and the five divisions of the Bureau, as well as the
subordinate sections of the Secretariat and divisions. The
budget for the nert fisoal year, submitted by the Finanoe
Min1stry and approved by the Cabinet on December 10, 1940,
inoludes an item of 2,467,000 to meet the cost of establish-
ing the Intelligenee Bureau.
Although

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.96)
Although it is too early to pass judgment on the
Intelligenoe Bureau on the basis of its actual operation,
it is abundantly clear from the empowering Imperial Reseript
and from the organization regulations that the Bureau is
designed to funotion as the central directing foroe in charge
of all aotivities of the Japanese Government which relate
to censorship, the colleotion of information and the dissemina-
tion of official propaganda. That the military and naval es-
tablishments have retained a measure of independence through
the continued funotioning of the Press Sections of the Im-
perial Headquarters is of some interest, however, as a
possible indication that those services do not place suf-
ficient trust in this essentially non-military Bureau to
2
relinquish to it full control of military and naval informa-
tion and propaganda activities.
Respectfully yours,
CAC:C
Joseph C. Grew.
800.2
Original and 4 oopies to Department.
verl

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
Enolo
estre mo. 1 to despatch
no.
from the Mmbassy at Tokyo.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE, DeeeMber 6, 1940.
We, with the approval of the Privy Counoil, hereby
sanction the official organisation of the Intelligence
Bureau and order the same to be promulgated.
Imperial Sign Manual.
December 5, 1940.
Prince Fumimaro Konoye,
Prime Minister.
Imperial Ordinanoe no. 846.
Official organization of the Intelligence Bureau.
Artiole l. The Intelligence Bureau shall be placed
under the control of the Prime Minister and shall handle
affairs relating to the following matters:
1. Collection and dissemination of information,
enlightenment and publicity in connection with
matters whioh are basic to the execution of
national polioy.
2. Regulation of newspapers and other publications
under Artiole 20 or the National General Mobiliza-
tion Law.
3. Direotion and control of radio broadcasting matters.
4. As necessary from the standpoint of enlightenment
and publicity, the direotion and control of motion
piotures, gramophone records, theatricals and enter-
tainments in matters which are fundamental to the
execution of national policy.
In the arecution of the foregoing funotions, the Intelligence
Bureau may, when necessary, secure the cooperation of the
concerned government offioes in matters relating to the colleo-
tion and dissemination of information, enlightenment and
publioity.
Artiole 2.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Artiole 2. The Intelligence Bureau shall consist of the
following personnel: President (shinnin rank), one Viee
President (ohokunin rank), one private seoretary (sonin rank),
fifty-one information ofricials (sonin rank although five of
this number may be of ohokunin rank), eighty-nine petty offi-
cials (hannin rank), and one teohnical assistant(hannin rank).
Article 3. In addition to the personnel mentioned in
the preceding artiole, the Cabinet may, in accordance with a
petition from the Prime Minister to the Emperor, appoint in-
telligence officials from among high officials of the various
government ofrices concerned.
Article 4. The Intelligence Bureau shall have a Presi-
dent's Seoretariat and five divisions. Heads of divisions
shall be information officials of sonin rank.
The allocation of duties among the President's Secretariat
and the five divisions shall be determined by the Prime Minister.
Article 5. Councillors, not to exceed fifteen in number,
shall be appointed to the Intelligence Bureau and participate
in its affairs.
Councillors shall be appointed by the Cabinet, in aocord-
ance with a petition from the Prime Minister to the Emperor,
from persons of learning and experience.
Councillors shall be accorded treatment as chokunin
ofricials. However, if persons appointed as councillors
already hold offioial rank, they shall be accorded treatment
appropriate to that rank.
The term of office of counoillors,shall be two years.
Even during that term, however, they may be released from
office under exceptional ciroumstances.
Artiole .

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Artiole 6. The President shall supervise the
affairs of the Bureau, direct and superintend the staffs
of the several divisions, and appoint and dimmiss hanain
officials.
Article 7. The Vice President shall assist the
President and regulate the affairs of the Bureau.
Artiole 8. The private secretary shall deal with
confidential matters in.accordance with the President's
orders.
Article 9. Information officials shall deal with
affairs of the Bureau in accordance with orders from
superior officials.
Article l0. Petty officials shall engage in general work
under the direction of superior officials.
Article ll. The technical assistant shall engage in
technical work under the direction of superior officials.
Supplementary Rules
The present ordinance shall become effeotive from the
day of promulgation.
The ofricial organization of the Cabinet Intelligence
Office is hereby abolished.
Reference
Extract from Law no. 55, the National General Mobiliza-
tion Law, promulgated April 1, 1938.
Artiole 20. In time of war, the Government may, by
Imperial Ordinanoe, if necessary from the standpoint of
national general mobilization, restrict or prohibit
printing of artioles in newspapers and other publications.
The

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
The Government shall prohibit the sale and distribution
of, or seize, newspapers and other publications whiah, in
violation of the restriotions or prohibitions, as provided
for in the preceding paragraph, obstruot the national gener-
al mobilization. In such cases, the Government may also seize
the original editions of such articles.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 2 to
no. 5206 dated Dessmber 1z, 1
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
OFFICIAL GAZETTE, Deoember 6, 1940.
Regulations for the organization of the Intelligense
Bureau.
The following regulations for the organization of the
Intelligence Bureau have been presoribed by the Cabinet,
and are in effect from today, December 6, 1940.
Article l. First and Second Seotions are established
in the President's Seoretariat, and the following five
divisions are prescribed: First Division, Second Division,
Third Division, Fourth Division and Firth Division.
Article 2. The First Seotion of the Secretariat is
oharged with the following work:
1. Confidential matters.
2. Personnel matters.
3. Control and Preservation of Orricial Seals
Accounting matters.
5.
Matters of supervision within the Bureau.
6. Matters not assigned to any other division or
section.
Article 3. The Second Seotion of the Secretariat is
charged with the following work:
1. The receipt, dispatoh, compilation and preserva-
tion of documents.
2. The examination and transmission of doouments.
3. Liaison and adjustment of work within the Bureau.
4. Library matters.
Article 4. First, Second and Third Sections are es-
tablished in the First Division.
Artiole 5. The First Seotion of the First Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Basio programs for enlightenment and publioity
in Japan and abroad.
2. Matters not assigmed to any other seotion of this
division.
Artiole 6.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Article 6. The Second Section of the First Division
is charged with the following work:
1. Intelligenoe matters.
Artiole 7. The Third Seotion of the First Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Investigation of public opinion and thought in
Japan and abroad.
Article 8. First, Second and Third Sections are es-
tablished in the Second Division.
Article 9. The First Section of the Second Division
is charged with the following work:
1. Release of Government announcements to newspapers
and news services.
2. Matters concerning newspapers and news services.
3. Matters not assigned to any other section of this
division.
Article 10. The Second Section of the Second Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Matters relating to magazines and other publications.
2. Control of paper consumption by newspapers and maga-
zines.
Article ll. The Third Section of the Second Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Broadoasting matters.
Artiole 12. First, Second and Third Seotions are estab-
lished in the Third Division.
Artiole 13. The First Section of the Third Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Release of Government announoements to foreign
language newspapers and foreign language news services.
2. Matters conoerning foreign language newspapers and.
foreign language news services.
3. Matters not assigned to any other section of this
division.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Article l4. The Second Section of the Third Division
is charged with the following work:
1. Matters relating to enlightenment and publioity abroad.
Article 15. The Third Section of the Third Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Cultural enterprises abroad.
Article l6. First and Second Sections are established
in the Fourth Division.
Artiole 17. The First Seotion of the Fourth Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Censorship and control of newspapers, magazines and
other publications.
2. Censorship and control of moving pictures, gramophone
records, theatricals and entertainments.
3. Matters not assigned to any other section of this
division.
Artiole 18. The Second Section of the Fourth Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Matters conoerning the compilation and publication
of weekly journals, photographio weekly news maga-
zines, eto.
Article 19. First, Second, Third and Fourth Seotions are
established in the Fifth Division.
Artiole 20. The First Seotion of the Fifth Division is
charged with the following work:
1. Matters conoerning enlightenment, publicity and
guidance through the medium of expositions, ex-
hibitions, photographs and posters.
2. Matters not assigned to any other seotion of this
division.
Artiole 21.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 2l. The Second Seotion of the Firth Division
is charged with the following work:
1. Matters conoerning enlightenment, publicity and
guidance through the medium of moving pietures,
theatricals and entertainments.
Article 22. The Third Section of the Firth Division
is charged with the following work:
1. Matters concerning enlightenment, publicity and
guidanoe through the medium of literature, fine
arts, musio and other forms of art.
Article 23. The Fourth Section of the Firth Division
is charged with the following work:
1. Matters concerning enlightenment, publioity and
guidance through the medium of national campaigns,
leoture meetings, courses of study, eto.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.93)
DCR
In reply refer to
A-D
January 31, 1941
FW 894.002/447
CONFIDENTIAL
The Department of State transmits the information
attached herewith in the hope that it will be of value
to the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
This information has also been forwarded to the
Military Intelligence Division of the War Department and
to the Offioe of Naval Intelligence.
Enolosure:
Copy of Despatch No. 5206 dated December 12,
1940 from the American Embassy, Tokyo, subject,
"Establishment of the Intelligonee Buremu",
with enolosures.
A true copy of
the signed origi-
nat. me
cC
FE
VAA
A-B:WMC:GS

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
- SUBJECT Cabinet changes expected in Japan within a few days.
List of changes expected.
mn
894.002/448
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel # 1360, noon
See
(Despata, telogram, imstruotlon, Lettes, eto.)
Dated .......Dac. 21,1940
From
Japan (Grew)
To
894.00/ 983
File No.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Postponement of changes in Ministers of Commerce
and Industry and of Finance of Japan.
Reports editorial comments in regard to -,
setting forth reasons for same.
mn
894.002
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel..1384,....p.m.
(Deepatok, telogram, tmstraollon, lettee, eta.)
Dec. 27, 1940
Japan (Grew)
From
Dated
To
894.00/ 986
File No.
B. S. GOVERNENT PRINTING PPS I-180

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Cabinet- Japan. Press reports investiture today Tokyo
Izawa as Privy Councilor formerly Chief, Motropolitan Police
1914- Governor General Taiwan,1924-Meyor, Tokyo.
894.002/450
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See  Tel. 1377m7pm
(Deepatoh, felegram, tastructiom, letter, eta.)
From
Dated
Doo.26,1940
To
dapan (Grew)
File No.894. 0 0/985

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
45
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Outlook for the fall of the cabinet or a change in orientation.
No immediate-, according to specified indications; however,
there is dissatisfaction with the position in which Japan
894.00
now finds hereself and developments are contingent upon
this opposition's gaining of strength.
2
/451
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel #1372; 2pm
(Despatch, telegram, instruct'on, letter, etc.)
From
Dated
Dec 24, 1940
Japan (Grew)
To
894.00/984
File No.
FRG
1-1540

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
452
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japan's new Genro. Reports a new
advisory body in the place of the cld
institution known as the Genro, which is
the political machinery whereby the prime
ministers of Japan are chosen.
894.002/452
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#4917
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Aug. 16, 1940
From
Japan Grew
Dated
To
894.00/961
File No.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.91)
fokyo, Amgust 16, 1940.
No. 4917.
UCT JAPANS URO
The Honorable
The Seeretary of State,
Washington.
Birs
I have the honor to repors om an inmevation of
fundamentel impertamse which has reeently taken plase
in the politioal meehinery whereby the prime minis-
ters of Japem are shosen. The innovatien, in shors,
comsists of the substitution of a now advisery bedy
in plaee of the eld institution knovm as the Gamre.
mie

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.93)
This roport is partly in the pature of & digest
of an able artiele entitled "Japan's New Gemro" ty Dr.
C. H. Spinks whieh appeared in the July lesme ef Gm
tmperary Japen.
Frinee Saionji is the only murviving member of e
group of ixperial coumsslors whieh sppearad shortly after
the Japanese Constitution was prommlgated in l8s9. This
group, known as the Oenro or eléer statesmem, wms com-
posed of leaders of the post-restoration period whe had
been resognized by the Emperor as having rendered exeep-
tiomal mervices to the state. Without constitutlonal
status, the Jenro formed a body whieh was ealled upom by
the Emperor to shoose the head of sesh new government.
Through the oxereise of thin fumetion, the Genro was
able to exert e strong influenes ovar the polieies snd
affairs of eneh mimistry.
In the early years of constitutional govermment the
influanee of the Jearo was strongly conserative, bus
with the denth of the military and more remotiomary
members of the group the liberal imfluemee, typified by
Frince Saionji, beeame paramount. Prince Seienji was
a firm believer in purty govermment, and during the desade
before l05e it was his pructice so ohoese ss premier the
president of the majority pmrty or, in ease of the latter's
resigmstion, the prosident of she largest minerity party
in the Diet. Until the revolutionary events of l9ss it
was gomerally believed shet shis system had bacome so
well emtremehed that after Prinee Saionji's death the
mashinery would fumotion entirely upon & party basis witk-
out ths interrestion of extre-constitutiomal cdvisers.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.81)
Four fasters, partially intesselated, may be regested
as having prereated the system spessesed  Prines Saiemji
from taxine pemmament reet. the fires wme the imeptitase
and eerruptmess of perty polities; the seesme weas the
eeemomie deyressien wkieh settled upen Japen after the
bank erisis ef lo2t; she third was the euthreek of a series
of politioal sseassimations culmimetins in the affair of
May 15, loss; and the fourth wme the "Nemekerian Amsident"
whieh may be regarded as an expressies of military ess-
satisfaetien wità the fereign ene demestie pelseies ef
the eivil admisistratien. These faeters lad to the dem-
fall of libesalimm in Japan and ushered is the presemt
are of roaetiem.
The asssssimatien es Premier Iastmi in the May losa
affair my be regarded as a tarmins peint in the Japenese
system of govermmest. sinse thet cecesien it has been
nesessery in the selestien of yrime misistere te sive em-
sideretien to the new ferees of veestien epainst pesisementery
lastitations and party soverment, and it bas been Priace
Saionji's sssseesingly dirfiouls sank to selest men whe
could plesate the resetiemery elemente bus whe at the same
time could held these clemente in chesk. the resuls hes
boem a complete abentommmt ef the sgotem of party covern
ment. with the appeistment of Atmiral salte is loms wmail
the preeemt, the prime ministers kave withses emeegtion
beem mem-party bureenesats, for the mest part military es
me
with the change in the type of sovernmente has come
an equally sigsiriemnt ahenge in the presetere therety
the prine ninistese are shsen. The atendaent of the
ayot

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.90)
systen of party soveerments was, of ccurse, a biew to
the prestise as wall as the hepes of Prinse Saisaji, whe
was the prinsipel sposser of that system. sinee the
aseessination of Premier Iaskai in the Mey lotà affair,
Primee Saioaji has not attempted to checse a now prime
misister withous eensultation with ether lesders. m
the eseasion of the selestion of Admiral Saite in l9ss,
Prinse Beiomj1 same to Tokye frem his home in Ckitam to
hold eonferemses with sll the former prime mimisters,
the president of the Privy Ceuneil, the Lerd Privy Seal,
and the Wer and Navy ministers, befure reperting to the
Throne. When the Saite cabinet fell in lese, cemferemees
ware again hald with the retiring premier, the Lore Privy
Seal, the president af the Privy Ceumsil, and the femer
prime ministers. Sigmifioantly ensugh, in this ense me
ceaferences were held with the War and Navy ministers.
M is generally believed that Prinee Saianji seught to
establisk & presedent by these meetings, aimins at the
sreatien ef an effieial body whieh might take over the
Gemro's importent fumetion or cheosins premiers.
The mext step in the shanging presess of saleetien of
prims ministars took plaee in losy after the outhrenk ef
the Chine ineident. The Hirammme, Abe, and Yomai eabimets
all esms iato being after politieal ecnsesenees in Takyo,
while Prinse Saiosji ramained at his Okiteu villa and was
keps iaformed of the preessdings by his private seeretary.
In this manmer, partly beeeuse of Prince Saionji's advansins
age and feekleness, and prtly beseuse of palitieal tes.
sime whiah has comtimeally asscmpenied the buressesasie
eabines regime simse lose and espesially sinse the war
with chimm, there has develeped what virtually amsasts to
a

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.92)
-8
a now Gamro, or group of mdvisars, for the salestion of
prime ministers. This now body is grodmally takims ever
the funetions whieh, until l9ss, had been regarded as
Saionji's exelusive prerogative.
Frem wbeervation of the wan whe have shared im the
respomsibility for the formation of mew eabimets simes
l9s2, it is possibls to determine with some aeeuraey the
compesitiem of this now Gearo to whieh the neme "Juskia"
or "most impertant retainers" is beeeming eommonly applied.
The Lord Privy Seal, at presemt Marquis Keiehi Xido, em-
mands foremest attention. He is an officer of ministerial
rank appointed by the Emperor, and as the first man to be
eensulted by the Kmperor in every eabinet change may be
regarded as key mm in this new group of advisers. arter
him some the president er the Privy Coumeil, now Dr.
Teshimiehi Rare, and all former prime mimisters. These
living at present are Baron Wakatsuki, Admiral kade,
Mr. Mireta, Goneral Hayashi, Primse Komeye, Daren Mire-
nume, Gemeral Abe, and Admiral Yomal. Thess meu fem the
body whiek on resent oseasions has been salled tegether
by the Lord Privy Seal to delibesate om the sheise of a
now premier, but in view of the importamt pesition in Japan
of the army and Havy, high offieers ef these serviess,
parsieularly the War and Navy ministers of the eutgeing
cabines, play an important rele in the mow syatem of Gearo.
Although ths military servises are nos direstly represented
an the "Jashin" ceunsil, tksir epiniom and consent has been
obtained in every instanee sinee the outkreek of military
vielenee et February s, loss, mish mde plain the is-
pertamse of military ceeperatien with ths civil gevernment.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.91)
The gradual evolution of this now type of desme
way have far-resching resulte on future Japamese pelitsoml
development. Umlike the ald Ganro, whish is deseimed to
vanieh with Saionji's doath and whiek has evem mow lest
its primcipal funetion, this now body, by virtue of its
pesuliar memborskip, is permanent. It hed been gemerally
assumed that with the pessing of Primee Saionji the Gemse
as an institution would alco pass. This might bave been
the sase ir the party cabinst system had mot beem over-
thrown in the stress of events following the insidems of
May l5, l932, and if these svents bad met broughs about
a revulsion agaimst liberal imstitutions.
It should be remembered that the party cabinet syssem.
as it had developed and as it axisted prier to loss, was
a distinotly new phemomenen in govermmemt and sme whiek
had not yet strsek roots deep ixte the pelisieal soll er
Japan. Through their long history the Japaness as a rule
have displayed an Orisntal partiality fer patermal mdviears.
They ure found not caly in the pelitieal bat alse im the
busimems world as well, and evem in family affairs the
ontensible hend of e househeld is freguemsly dependest upon
an "inkyo", the fermer head, whe has withereem fate re
sirement. Sush Gemre-like mdvisers in govermment are
hissorieally compatible with Japamese pelitieal reasemims.
and the Japanese mind, stesped for esntaries im the as-
viser tredition, is desidedly relmetant to assept aay
politieal system in whieh suak impestant desisions as the
shoesing of the head of & cabinet are left to mush un-
cestrallable forces as pelitieal parties er publie epinios.
Degardlese of the extest to whiek the May 15 ineident
shemged the course of pelitieal develeyment in Japes, the
pao

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.67)
ty ebiase system une, arter all, an sen imsttution
thih he sover boe rully eeltted to the pomtter
Zgse   the  , th 
Ganso, or mhich Friace Seienji is the Lans regeesemtatáve,
a the nw Goe r "" coeil, e  w a
talisins as as institeties, e fasimitaly te t 
asse tredision.
It may be aded that the apese of the a Gme
is an e of teresoratie sablmete is a vivid retleceien
of the eat shanges whdat bave come ever Japes's yeiitdent
coapleien. then party cabinete wese is vgse, publie
opinies, vestins shsongh the parties and the sies, played
à aall ut aresins pare in the cheie of preniere and in
the deimn es polis. Toy t misttin
of publie piin, mic  aily n the sse 
libesaliss, has boen largaly sameged while the reenéen
azy elemente in the mstiee have been accerted a stanger
pondtion. Nee the least reasn for the sheage is the taee
that the mew institutlon aresning sesgemsihalsty foe the
velestien of peime miniutexe io compessd to a omstémabée
as fo  i  y th
ary, asti-liberel forees in the coy. wle the mew
fere to t me mone the toe) ot the zanetdesdse and
altheugh t contaie emonte hh my at loant te td
Intoedens, yet ite vim are vouy disfoses fom these
provailins durins the libesel ans demeemetée deasde of
Primce Seienji*s premse es tke Eemeste aévés.
Mespeettally youme,
Jonegi G. G
A true copy of
the sgned origt-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM REGEIVED
JR
Tokyo
FROM Dated march 18, 1941
3/8/41 R6K
REc'd 2112 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
Division of
FIR EASTER EFAIRS
Vashington.
Department of Sta
424, Merch 18, noon.
A first pErson notE dated March 12, 1941 was recEivEd
yesterday stating that during the absencε of Matsuoka,
894.002/453
thE PrimE Minister, PrincE KonoyE would assumE temporarily
the duties of ForEign Minister.
·GREW
PEG
PS
口
4.002
89
B
MAR 24 1941
FILED
4

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002.
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Matsuoka will resign as Foreign Minister
and General Tatekawa, now Ambassador in
Moscow will probably take his place.
Information received from French colleague
that -.
894.00
rr
2
/454
7
F
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel.#76, 6 p.m.
See
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Japan (Grew)
Dated
Jna. 16, 1941
To
File No.
894.00/989
1-1540

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
An important group in Japan, including Army
officers, propose to over throw the Govern-
nent. Information hes been received from
a source of uncertain reliability thet -.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel 276
8 pm
(Deepatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
DatedFeb..2l...1941
Japan...(Grow)
Confidential
To
File No.
894.00/1002
894002/
0

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Jayanese internol and foreign policy,
and economic sit ntion.
Information relative to possible reorgani-
zation of Janenese Cabinet due to dis-
894.002456
sntisfection with -.
1w
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
TEL.#390.8pm
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated
Mar. 11. 1941
Japen (Grew)
To
File No.
894.00/1009
8
2

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Reporganisation of Imperial Rule Assistance Association.
Informs that Justice Minister Lieutenant General
Yanagawa is expected to assume Vice Presidency
and become cabinet minister without portfolio.
FLH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel  472 6 PM
(Despaloh, telogram, Lastraotion, letter, ela.)
From/ Japan(Grew)
Dated
March 27, 1941
To
894.00/1013
File No.
U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINT1NG PPE 1-1860

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
Cabinet- Japan. Batra editions of tonight's vermaculars m-
SUBJECT
nounce appointment of Vice Admiral Teijiro Tomata mavy.
Viee Minister as Mimister of Commeree and Industry and Lest
nant General Teiichi,Susuki, Chief Bast Asia Beard as' pres
dent planning board with rank of yinister of State.
fp
4.002
/458
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel.506-10pm
(Despatoh, telegram, iastruotion, lettes, eta.)
From
458
Dated ......Apr. il..4.1941
JapanGrew)
To
File No.
894.00/1015
0. 8. 0VRNT P1NT1N E 1-1860

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japamese Cabinet.
Press comments on appointment of Masatsune Ogura, as
Minister without Portfolie in the present,-
FLH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel  495 6 PM
(Deepatoh, telogram, imstraotion, lettes, eta.)
From/ Japan (Grew)
Dated Apri1 1, 1941
To
File No.
894.00/1014
. S. SOVERENT PRNTING PPICE 1-180

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Appointment of Admiral Teichi Toyoda, Minister
for Commerce and Industry, and General Teichi
Susuki, President of Cabinet Planning Board.
Informs of favorable press comment on -.
1w
94.002/460
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
THL.f612.midnight
(Despatoh, telegram, iastraotios, letter, etc.)
From
Dated.....Apr...5...1941
.Japan..(Qrax)..
To
f
09
File No.
894.00/1016
844,002
0. 6. GOVENNT PRNTIN6 16 1-1840

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
10100
PROTO
FROM
JR
This telegram must bE
Tokyo
closely perephresEd bE-
fore being communiccted.
to cnyonε. (br)
Dated April 10, 1941
Rec'd 2:30 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Divisionof
FAR EASTERN AFEAIRS
Weshington.
Jepartment of Sta
527, Apr11 10, 11 a.m.
In reply to my request for en appointment
F
with PrincE KonoyE he replied through his secretery
IBF
894.002/461
that hE does not wish to receivE foreign diplomat
clhuche
and hE referred mE to Ohashi εnd Ohashi recently
OBF
informed my British colleaguE to the samE effect.
I do not think thet anything is to bE gained by
pressing the matter elthough I am lEtting it bE
known that the President hes stated thet hE would
bE glad to receivE Admiral Nomura at any time.
APR 22
GREW
894.002
FILED
RR
104
PS/LB
4

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECTCabinet of Japan.
Summary from vernacular press on Prime Minister's
third formal press conference since he becoming
Prime Minister contains information on,-
894.002/462
FLH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Tel5245. PM
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
Dated.
April 10, 1941
From
Japan (Grew)
To
462
File No.
894.00/1027

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTIERN HEAURS
PR25 1941
FROM
GMW
GRAY
Tokyo
COPIES SENT TO
Dated Apr11 24, 1941
Yisu
Rec'd 8:55 a.m.
Secretary of State,
.002/463
Washington.
453
597, Apr11 24, 9 p.m.
Embassy's 424, March 18, noon.
A first person circular notE dated April 22,
1941, was received today informing the Embassy that
Matsuoka had resumed his duties as Foreign Minister on
PS/LOC
that datE.
GREW
894.002
RR
APR 28 1941
FILED

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
AUSTRALIAN LEGATION,
WASHINGTON,D.C.
AL & CONFIDENTIAL
POLITICAL
NR. HORNET
April 8th, 1941
io of
ULPARTMINT OI STATE
cittarts Mr. Casy,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
aprie 9.
894.002/464
-1941
APR 1 41941
My dear Hornbeck,
In a recent telegram from Tokyo to Canberra,
the Australian Minister expressed the opinion that
the appointment of Masatsune Ogura as Minister without
portfolio, following upon the appointment of General
Yanagawa as Vice-President and Ishiwata as Secretary-
General of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association,
must be regarded as a success for financial conservative
interests in Japan and as a setback for the radicals.
He also called attention to the fact that Ishiwata had
been an opponent of the attempt in 1939 to strengthen
ties with the Axis powers.
Sir John Latham thinks that there are likely
to be repercussions amongst the radicals to what they
must regard as reactionary changes, and that the
PS/JHS
political situation in Japan in the immediate future
is likely to be unstable.
I am,
Yours sincerely,
MisCan
Mr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
State Department,
Washington, D.C.
FILED
P11 1941

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.84)
DER
April 9, 1001.
My Gsar Casey:
894.002/464
I appseotate your thoughtfulness in giving me by
your letter of April 8 the substanee of a sesent solo»
gram sent to Camberre by the Australisn Minister at
Toxyo.
Yours sineerely,
STANLEY K. HORNBECK
PS/JH
The Right Remeveble
S
. y. ....
Amti t.
A tree ecsy of
WA
eews
an

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry Tadaatsu Ishiguro.
Informs of - and of appointment of Vice Min-
ister Hiroyaino as successor.
1w
894.002/465
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
TEL. 1006. 3pm
(Deepatoh, telogram, imstraotiom, lettes, ete.)
From
Dated.._.June..ll..1941
Japan (Grew)
To
File No.
894.00/1041
U. S. G0NT PETIN PS 1-189
465

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese b inet- Konoye will head the new cabinet.
894.002/466
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Te1.1019=5pm
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated
Jul17,1941
Japen....(Graw)
To
File No..894.0u/1058
466

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.93)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Persennel of new Japanese Cabinmet.
Transmits list of -.
1b
002/467
For the original paper from which reference is taken
SeeTel. #1029, 8 pm
(Deapato, telogram, tastraotlom, lettor, eto.)
Dated .....July 18,1941
From
Japan-Grem
To
File No. ....894.00/1061
U. . 0NT P P 2100
467

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
TK
This telegram must bE
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
Dated July 22, 1941
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (BR).
Rec'd noon.
Secretary of StatE
Division o
FAR EASTERAFFAIRS
Washington
1051, July 2?, noon..
Department of State
894.002/468
ThE new Minister for Foreign Affairs, Admiral
Toyoda, will receivE thE diplomatic chiefs of mission
1ndividually on Friday July 25 at 2 o'clock.
As thesE initial interviews arE generally very
brief and purely pro forma there will probably bE no
opportunity on that occasion to discuss current issues
although any important and urgent issuE could bE
approached if dEsirable.
GREW
WSB
PS/MJL
JUL 2 8 1941
FILED

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese cabinet. Resignations submitted today by Ambassador
to Nanking Government Honda and Foreign Vioe Minister Ohashi.
894.002/469
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel. 1033- 5pm
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
From apan (Grew)
Dated
July 19,1941
To
894.001065
File No.
469
U. 8. GOVERNMINT PRINTINS OFPICE 1-1540

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PM
GRAY
Divisien of
FROM
F EASTN AFARS
TOKYO
P
Dated August 14, 1941.
Department of State
Rec'd 6:58 a.m.
Secretary of Staté,
Aud1 in
Washington.
894.002/471
COPIES SENT TO
RUSH.
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
1234, August 14, 2 p.m.
Hiyanuma was shot in the neck this morning at
8 o'clock at his private residence here. His assailant
was Naohiko Ishiyama 33. Home Ministry announcement
states condition not serious.
Associated Press, United Press, and International
News Service request their head offices be informed
that they have filed messages.
el
GREW.
KLP
AUGT81941
FILED
PS

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
77
TEM
This telegram must
olosely paraphrased be-
Dated August 15, 1941
fore being communicated
to anyone. (sC)
Reo'd 8:48 a...
FROM
Seoretary of State,
Division o
FAR EASTERAFFAM
A-17.1341
Washington.
Department of State
1243, August 15, 4 p.m.
An official of the Foreign Orfice told a member
of the Embassy staff that Hiranuma's assailant was a
894.002/472
member of a "radical" organization entitled the Mitsubi-
Kai and that the motive for the attack was undoubtedly
resentment against Hiranuma's efforts to bring sbout an
adjustment of Japanese-American relations.
GREW
NPL
4.002
89
AUG 2.9.1941
FILED
P
S

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.99)
KD
PLAIN
TELEGRAM RECEIVEDyo via Shangha1
Dated August 15, 1941
Roc'd. 9:35 a.m.,16th
FROM
Secretary of State,
Division of
Washington.
COPIES SENT TO
FAR EASTEBN AFEAURS
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
1245.
15th, 6 p. m.
Department of State
Brief editorial comments appeared Japanese press
today concerning attempted assassination Hiranuma
although no further details of incident announced.
894.002/473
NICHI NICHI deplores use direct action at time entire
nation strives overcome difficulties and achieve East
Asia construction. Thorough precaution against
recurrence such attempts strongly urged. In view
serious international situation and activities powers
hostile Japan, specially Britain-United States, people
must maintain greatest caution in order display spirit
81
total unanimity.
ASAHI regrets incident in view Hiranuma's status
as senior statesman close to throne and mainstay prest
2
cabinet. Divergence views among public states natural
DPS/AC
but in wartime individual opinions should be suppresse
for sake harmony and interests nation.
KOKUMIN refers May 15, February 26 incidents as
manifestations

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- 15th, 6 p. m., from Tokyo..
manifestations burning patriotism which may have in som
degree aided correction social evils and promotion Japanes
policy development; nevertheless irrespective motives
views perpetrator, torroristic acts should nevor be
allowed lawful countrics especially in wartime.
CIIUGAI hints Hiranuma assailant may have been tool
certain groups stating wire pullers have in past abased
shorttempered, hotheadod nature Japaneso. CHUGAI deplores
fact this incident will be rogardod abroad as act terrorist
resulting internal dissonsion. Sent Departmont via
Shanghai.
GREW.
DJD

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Appointment of Ei.ji Amau, former Ambassador to
Italy, as Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Informs of -.
1b
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See...Tel..#1248..9.pm
474894
(Deepatah, telogram, imstruotion, letter, eto.)
From
Dated...Aug.15,..1941
Japan-Grew
To
File No.
894.00/1087
0. S. GOVENENT PRINTING OPPIGE 1-1840

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.91)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Cabinet of Japan.
Infermatien frem Japanese Ambassader in Mashingten
regarding presené. Refers to Admiral Teyeda and
Mirasua.
FLE
5
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel  412 5 PM
(Deapetok, telegram, tastruotlom, lettes, eto.)
Japan(-)
DatedJuly 19. 1941
To
894.00/1085a
File No.
 T   11

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of Prince Konoye and appointment of
a now cabinet.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTLAL FO: THE SECRETARY AND UNDER
SECRET&RY ONLY ooncerning -.
894.002/476
496
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel.#1646.11am
Confidential File
(Deepatch, telegram, tastraotion, letter, elo.)
Dated
Oot.17,1941
From
Japan - Grew
To
711.94/2375
File No.
nntnantial Fe
U. S. GOVNUENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
The Germans desired the dropping of Matsuoke not only
because he talked too much but beoause he was res-
ponsible for the neutrality treaty with Soviet
Russia.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
476
SeeTel./1084.10pm
(Deopatoh, telogram, tastraotion, lettes, eto.)
From
Japen (Grew)
DatedJuly 25, 1941
To
File No. 740 0011 European War, 1939/13477
U..    10
hr

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.91)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Appointment of Michiyo Iwamura as Justice
Minister.
Informs of -.
1b
894.0021477
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel.#1086, midnight
(Despatok, telogram, imstruollon, lettes, elo.)
U
V
From Jap an-Grew
Dated.....July.25.1941
Ta
File No. 894.00/1081

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Possible composition of new Japanese cabinet.
Call of Japanese Embassy Secretary and dis-
course on -; opinions expressed were per-
sonal and not factual as Japanese policy
equally evasive to Embasey and foreigners.
LDP
894.002/478
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatah, telegram, instruction, ietter, etc.)
State Department
From
Far Eastern Affairs
July 16, 1941
Dated
xtexx
(Schmidt)
PS/AC
894.00/1092
File No.
1-1540

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
New Japanese cabinet.
Analysis presented of the changes current in -.
LDP
894.002/479
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatoh, telegrom, instruction, letter, sto.)
State Department
July 18, 1941
From
Far Eastern Affairs
Dated
xbaxx (Langdon)
894.00/1093
File No.
PS/AC

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.92)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
New Japanese cabinet.
Reports on conversation with Japanese Ambassador
894.002/491
regarding,-
491
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatoh, telegram, testraction, letter, elo.)
From/ State Department
Dated....uly.18..1941.
(Welles)
PS/H
File No.
004.00/1094
U. S. GOVRENT PRINTING GPPIE 1-1840

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
894.008
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Attempt to assasinate Prime Minister.
Informtion regarding -.
894.002/492
wha
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
To1.#1490,4pm
(Despatok, telegram, tmstruction, letter, eto.)
Confidential
PS
Dated
Sept.20,1941
From
Japan - Grew
To
/"CS
File No.
711.94/2302
U. S. GOVENNENT PRINTING OFPICE 1-184O

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
894.008
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
New Japanese Cabinet attempted through
efforts of East Asia League. Rumor
reported of formation of -.
894. 002493
LDP
For the original paper from which reference is taken
493
See
Telegram #-, 5 pm.
(Despatch, telegram, imstraotion, letter, eto.)
Dated
Soptember 19, 1941
From
China (Butrick)
Taxxt
File No.
894.00/1101
PS/RH/H
U. S. GOVNT PRINTING OPFICE 1-18G0

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5797
Tokyo, August 20, 1941
SUBJECT:
ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION OF BARON HIRANUMA
SEPAREN L STATE
PM 2 13
ll
PiSvision of
FAR EASZEBHAFFAIRS
21
EVE
0C16-1941
5
Department of State
cory
15411051
Por Dietrihuinm-Chark
Yem
Grede 1
In U B.A.
PiR
4002
89
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
OCT8
Washington
FILED
Sir:
1941
As of interest in connection with the recent
attempted assassination of Baron Kiichiro Hiranuma,*
I have the honor to report that on the evening pre-
ceding the attack, that is, some ten hours before it
PS/MW
occurred, the Italian representative of the Stefani
News Ageney, Mr. Aloisi, telephoned to the office of
the Home Ministry and inquired whether there were any
truth in the rumor whioh had just come to him to the
effeet that Baron Hiranuma had been shot.
894002/471
*See Mabasay's telegram no. 1234, August 14, 2 p.m.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
As a result of this unfortunate timing, on the
following day, immediately after the attack ocourred,
the police descended upon the Stefani Agency and for
several days thereafter Mr. Aloisi was required to
report for questioning at police headquarters from
9 a.m. until 5 p.m. In addition to this the repre-
sentatives and Japanese employees of all the foreign
news agencies and of Domei were subjeoted to extended
and close questioning. On the first day a Japanese
employee of Domei, who had until recently been employed
by Stefani, was arrested by the police in front of the
assembled correspondents and employees in such a manner
as to leave no doubt that they wished to make an example
of their victim.
We are informed that Mr. Aloisi's release from
questioning and virtual arrest was effected only after
the Italian Embassy agreed to furnish the police with
the names of two Japanese individuals from whom the
Embassy had received the rumor the truth of which Mr.
Aloisi sought to confirm on the evening before the
attaok on Baron Hiranuma.
Respeotfully yours,
Mo 6. Fu
Joseph C. Grew
800.2.
ESC:mg
Original and 4 copies to the Bepartment
Copy to the Division of Commercial Affairs

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of entire Cabinet.
894.002/495
Reports - and the information that
the mperer has requested that
the Cabinet remain in office for the
time being.
495
bas
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel #1643. 9pm
(Despelak, telegram, tastraction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated.....October..16..1941
Japan
To
(Grew)
File No. ....894.00/1106
8. S. GOVERNENT PRINTING OPFICE 1—1840

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
PA/H
DES
PLAIN
Tokyo
Dated October 16, 1941
REc'd 9:40 am
Secretary of State,
Washington.
RUSH.
1643, October 16, 9 p.m.
It wes officiεlly ennounced et eight fiften
this Evming that thE rEsignation of thE ntirE
894.
Cabinet hed bEen submitted to thE EmpEror at fivE
o'clock this afternoon. ThE Emperor has requested
0
thE Cabinet to remain in officE for thE timE being.
0
GREW
HPD
9

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT New Cabinet.
General Tojo, Minister of War in the Konoye Cabinet,
has been designated to form a new cabinet.
BH
894.002497
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Te1. #1650, 5pm
(Despalak, telogram, tastruction, letter, eto.)
From
Dated
October_17. 1941
Japan(Grew)
894.00/1107
File No.
497

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Tojo Cabinet.
Prime, War and Home Ministers in - are : Lieutenant
General Hideki Tojo; Foreign and Overseas, Shigenori
Togo; Finance, Okinori Kaya; Navy, Admiral Shigetaro
Shimada; Justice, Michiyo Iwamura; Education, Kuni-
hiko Hashida; Agriculture, Hiroya Ino; Commerce and
894.002/498
Industry, Shinsuke Kishi; Communications and Railways,
retired Vice Admiral Ken Terashima; Welfare, Surgeon
General Chikahiko Koizumi; Without Portfolio, Lieutenant
General Teiichi Suzuki.
BH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Te1. #1652, 4pm
See
(Despetah, telogram, instructlon, letter, eto.)
Dated
October 18, 1941
From
Japan (Grew)
TEX
894.00/1111
File No.
498
. S. GOVENMENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1860

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.97)
894.00
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of Prime Minister and the present
Cabinet.
Public feels that such a change undesirable and
urges political leaders to reaffirm convictions.
894.002/499
BH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
Tel. #1644, 9am
See
(Deapetoh, telegram, tmstraction, leter, etc.)
October 17, 1941
From Japan(Grew)
Dated
894.00/1109
File No.
U. 5. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840
499

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT New Japanese Cabinet.
894.002/500:
Minister without portfolio Suzuki is concurrently
President Planning Board; Masayuki Tani, appointed
President Information Board; Naoki Hoshino Chief
Secretary of Cabinet; and Eiichi Moriyama Director
Legislature Bureau.
BH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel. #1655, 2pm
(Deopeto, telegram, lestraction, letter, eto.)
Dated
October 19,1941
From
Japan(Grew)
Dox
894.00/1116
File No.
500

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
AF
PLAIN
Tokyo
Dated Ootober 19, 1941
Rec'd 12:31 a.m.
SecrEtary of StatE,
Washington.
1655, ninEteenth, 2 p.m.
Embassy's 1652, EightEEnth, 4 p.m. NEw JapanEsE
CabinEt.
Minister without portfolio Suzuki is concurrently
President Planning Board. Masayuki Tani former VicE
Foreign Minister, appointed President Information
894.00/1116
Board; Naoki Hoshino Chief SEcretary of Cabinet; and
Eiichi Moriyama Director LegislaturE Bureau.
GREW
WWC

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Haruhiko Nishi as Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
The appointment of -, whose last post was counselor
with rank of minister in Moscow, was announced in
the press this morning.
BH
894.002/501
Confidential File
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel. #1673, 6pm
(Despatok, telogram, tmstraction, letter, eto.)
October 22, 1941
From
Japan(Grew)
Dated
Rax
894.00/1121
File No.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.96)
OCT 21 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECBIVED
NOTED
October 18, 1941
ocR
OCT23194
AN ESTIMATE OF THE TOJO CABINET
Division of
FAR EASTERMAGEAIRS
The recently formed Japanese cabinet under the premier-
OCT11941
ship of General Tojo appears to be a strong cabinet, pre-
08
Departmentte
6
dominantly military in character and with a large represen-
4.002/
0BF
tation from among military leaders who have been direotly
involved in Japan's program of aggression on the continent.
It is believed that the new cabinet will emphasize in its
5
502
polioies military preparations, further mobilization
894.002
of the national strength, and deployment of military forces
and equipment on the perimeter of Japan's defense areas.
Politically, the most important problem facing the
new cabinet remains the settlement of the "China incident"
P
S
and relations between Japan and the continent. Economically,
π
R
the most important problem remains the securing of basic
commodities, in particular oil and ferrous metals, and the
breaking of the economic and commercial measures in restraint
of Japan by the ABCD powers. Militarily, the most important
71941
problem remains the threat of hostilities with the ABCD
powers, plus the grave danger of military cooperation
between the United States and Soviet Russia against Japan.
It is not believed that the new cabinet will rejeot a
negotiated

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
-2
negotiated solution of Japan's international relations,
but at the same time will take every measure possible to
insure that, if such negotiated solutions are not forth-
coming or are not successful, the opportunity for a solution
by force will not be lost through lack of preparation or
deployment of forces. It is probable that the Japanese Gov-
ernment will seek to recover an "autonomous" position in
order to be able to take advantage of events or offers in
negotiations.
The new Foreign Minister, Mr. Togo, is a career
diplomat who hes served as Ambessador both to Germany and
0BF
the Soviet Union. His wife is German. It is reported that
he has hed unfriendly relations with former Foreign Minister
Matsuoka but that he has maintained cordial relations with
other Japanese who have favored cooperation between Japan
and Germany. "r. Togo, prior to his assignment as
Ambaesador at Moscow, was characterized as anti-foreign
and particularly ant1-American. However, his relatione
with Ambassador Steinherdt and the staff of the American Em-
bassy at Moscow while he served as Japanese Ambassedor there
were merked by speciel cordiality. Mr. Togo's reputation
is thet of en experienced, petient and capable negotiator.
His appointment does not rule out hostilities between Japan
end Russia and/or the United States, but at the same time
1t would

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.90)
-3
1t would appeer to indicate that the Japanese Government
may have in mind continued efforte towarde a negotiated
settlement with the United States and with Russia.
3.77

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Fall of Kenoye cabinet- apan. First news of- links this event
with rejection by the controlling foroes in Japan of Primce
Honoye's oonditions for adjustment of Japanese- Ameriean rels-
tions.
894.002
fp
/503
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Momo.
(Despatoh, telogram, tnstraotion, letter, etc.)
From/State Department
Dated ...
0st.16.1941
To PE (Langdon)
File No. ....894.00/1135
1-1840
894002

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Fall of the Japanese Cabinet.
Reports on -.
894.002
BH
/504
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Letter
(Despetab, telogram, tastraction, letter, etc.)
October 16, 1941
From/ Mar Dept.(Miles)
Dated
D6X
894.00/1122
File No.
U. 5. GOVERNBSNT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Fall of Japanese cabinet. Report in a United Press dispatch
concerning resigation in Ootober 16 of the three months old
Kenoye cabinet.
894.002/505
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Latter
(Despatak, telegram, tastraction, letter, eto.)
0ot. 16, 1941
From
war Department
Dated
To
8
File No.
894.00/1133
. 6. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of the Japanese Cabinet; Mr. Denning of the British
Embassy requested any official information in regard to the -.
He was informed that all we had so far received was a brief
telegram from Mr. Grew reporting that the Cabinet had submitted
its resignation and that the Emperor had requested the Cabinet
to remain in office for the time being.
894.002
/506
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
MEMO
(Despaloh, telegram, instraction, letter, eta.)
Dated
October 16, 1941
From
State Department FE Hamilton
D6X
S
2
File No.
701.9411/1498
B. . OVENT PRINTING PI 1-1640
pep

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.96)
894.008
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
New Japanese Cabinet.
Comments of Japanese Ambassador with regard to
attitude of - toward negotiations with U.s.
894.002/506-1/2
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Memorandum
(Despatoh, telegram, iastrectiom, lettee, eta.)
Confidential File
From
Dated..Noxa7.1941
Sta to Dep t.
To
FE-Ballantine
File No.711.94/2540-3/35
PS/KN
506

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Japanese cabinet. Report in United Press that Lieutenant
Genemal Hideli Tojo, War Minister in late Kemoye Cabinet, has
designated Premier and ordered to form a now cabinet.
894.002/507
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...Communiaation
(Despatok, telogram, tastruction, lettez, eto.)
From
Dated .....0ct...1711941
War....Departmant
To
507894.002
File No. 894.00/1134
. 6. OVNENT PAINTING OPFICE 1-184O

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Desire of new Japanese Prime Minister, Bekeral Tojo,
to reach peaceful agreement mgr with the U.s.
Memo. of Conversation with Japanese Ambassador and Mr.
Kurusu, who informed of -.
894.002/507-1/2
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Memorandum
(Despatoh, telegram, imstructiom, letter, eta.)
From
Dated ......Nov.17.1941
State Dept.
To
FR-Bal lantine
Confidential
File No. f711.94/2540-14/35
PS/KN
File
507

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.93)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT New Japanese cabinet:
British official opimion to the new cabimet
was that the cange favored armed action
against the Soviets; also states view as
pro-Nazi and anti Soviet.
894.002/508
vib
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
(Despalak, talogeem, imstractlon, lettes, eto.)
Dated
Oct. 17, 1941
From War Department
Do
894.00/1127
File No.
8. B. 0VENNENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1840

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
new Japanese eabinet. List of Ministers in the,-. Premier
and conourrently Minister of War and Home Affairs; Gemeral Eiki
Tojo, Foreign Affairsy Shigenori Togo: Commmications, Shimeake
Kishi; Finanoe, Okimobu Kaya; Agriculture and Forestry: Hireyasu
Ino; and Education, Kunihiko Iwashida.
894.002
fp
509
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ...Meno.
(Despatck, telogram, Lmstraotlon, letter, elo.)
From/State Department
Dated0t. 20.1941
To  FE (Langdon)
File No.894.00/1136
894
. 6. GUVEENT PINTN OPP1CE 1-1540
002

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Seihin Ekeda(Finance Minister first Konoye
Cabinet later member Cabinet Advisory Council).
Reports that - installed as member Privy Council
at Imperial Palace ceremony.
894.002/510
BH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Tel. ≠1717. 6pm
(Despatoh, telegram, imstraction, letter, sto.)
From
Dated
October_30.1941
Japan(Grew)
PS/EG
Raex
894.00/1140
File No.
1-1840

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Taro Terasaki, Chief of the American Affairs
Bureau of the Foreign Office.
Refers to a clipping from ashington Star stating
that - is relieved of his post at his own request;
believed that it may have some significance as
regards Japanese-American relations.
894.002/511
BH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
PS/EG
See
Memo.
(Deepatch, telegram, imstraction, letter, eto.)
Dated
October 29, 1941
From
State Department,Division of Far
Ta
Eastern Affairs(Smyth)
File No. FW894.00/1142
U. S. GOVENT PRINTING OPPICE 1-1860

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.96)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Premier-Designate Lieutenant General Eiki Tojo.
States that - is not quite 57 years old, and
has been War Minister since July 1940(second
Konoye Cabinet); his military career has been
spent in military educational, staff, and
administrative work, spending a term in Germany
as resident officer; has been gendarmarie command-
er and chief of staff of the Kwantung Army, also
director of military aviation department of Army.
894.002/512
BH
For the original paper from which reference is taken
PS/E
See ..Memo.
(Deepatck, telegram, tnstraction, letter, eto.)
Dated
October_171941
From
State Department(Far Eastern Affairs)
G
TǎX
(Langdon)
File No. 894.00/1141
512

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Fall of Japanese cabinet. United Press dispatoh concerning
resignation of three months old Konoye cabinet on Ootober l6.
894.002/513
fp
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See ....Letter
(Despatoh, telegram, instraotiom, letter, eto.)
From
Dated....Cata....16.1941
War Department
To
PS/MP
File No.
894.00/1133
512

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
COORDINATOR OF INFORMATION
FAR EASTERN SECTION
Memoranda on Far
Eastern Affairs
Date:
No. 2
October 22, 1941
The Tojo Cabinet
According to available information the Tojo Cabinet which was formed
on October 18, 194l is as follows:
Premier:
Gen. TOJO Kiki
mws
RS
Ministers without portfolio:
Gen. SUZUKI Teiichi
Lieut. Gen. ANDO Risaburo
Ministers of
War:
Gen. TOJO
094.0027
Navy:
Admiral SHIMADA Shigetaro
Foreign Affairs:
TOGO Shigenori
Vice-Min.
NISHI Haruhiko
Finance:
KAYA Okinobu
Heme Affairs:
Gen. TOJO
894.002
Vice-Min.
YUSAWA Michio
Education:
HASHIDA Kunihiko
Ag. and Forestry:
INO Hiroyasu
Communications and
Railways:
Vice Admiral TERAJDMA Ken
Commerce and Ind.
KISHI Shinsuke
Welfare:
Lieut. Gen. KOIZUMI Chikahiko
Overseas:
Gen. TOJO (?)
Justice:
IWAMURA Michiyo
Chief Information Bureau:
TANI Masayuici
NOV21941
15.17
FILED
Chief Legislative Bureau:
MORI Elichi
Chief Secretary of Cabinet:
HOSHINO Naoki
President Planning Board:
Gen. SUZUKI Teiichi
* Appointment subsequently declined.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
LVE EVBLEIN SECLION
COONDDNVLON O& IMLOETVLION
-2-
Judging frem the evidence so far available the following comments
jastiriable:
The resigmation of the Konoe Cabinet was probably due to an issue of
fereign polioy, presumably either negotiations with the United States
er an impending opportunity for profitable action in Russia.
Evidence:
Timing of the orisis in relation to the German drive on Moscow.
Streng statemests by both Army and Navy intelligence officers
immediately preoeding the crisis.
Carryever of five ministers not closely related to foreign
peliey from the Konoe Cabinet to the Tojo Cabinet.
2. The Tojo Cabimet is ome of concentrated authority.
Evidence:
Tojo is retaining the war portfolio and is reported on good
terms with the other members of the army "big three."
Toje is also taking the Ministry of Home Affairs, thus bring-
ing the regular and military police under one control
(Tojo has had experience as a gendarmerie commander).
3. :The Tojo Cabinet has strong Axis leanings.
Evidence:
Tejo himself spent three years in Germany as a military attache
and was reperted delighted with the signing of the Tripartite
Paot.
Shimeda (Navy) served his term abroad as attache at Reme.
Tego (Foreign Affairs) has served twice in Germaay--as Councillor
of Babassy and Later as Ambassador--, majored in German
Literature as a student at Tokyo Imperial, and has a German
wise.
Three other Cabinet members--Iwamura (Justice), Kishi (Commeree
and Industry), and Ino (Agriculture)--majored in German law
at Tokyo Imperial.
4. Japan's continental policy is strongly in evidence.
Evidence:
Tojo was formerly Chief of Staff of the Kwastung Army. Hoshino
(Chief Secretary) and Kishi (Commeroe and Industry) are the
former Direstor-General and Vice-Direster respectively of
the Mamehoukmo General Affairs Board, the central orgam for
econemic development and Japanese contrel in Manehurie. In
additiem Tege (Fereign Affairs) served his diplomatic
apprentioeship in Manchuria.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
Rargeutes
  b λ  bν   γ
τ b λ      
J°  Leon o  K e m bo q o   
 :
  f  o  ss f m 
-5-
-3-
imada (Navy) was formerly Chief of Staff of the China fleet.
Kaya (Finance) has been President of the North China Development
Company.
Yusawa (Vice-Minister of Home Affairs) has been political adviser
to one of the puppet regimes.
Tani (new chief of the Information Bureau) has made his career in
the Asia Bureau of the Foreign Office, in Manchoukuo and in
China.
5. This is a cabinet for total mobilization.
Evidence:
Tojo after his stay in Germany became chief of the Mobilisation
Section in the War Department from which later came the
pressure for most of Japan's later economic planning for
mobilization. In this light the following appointments seem
significant:
The Chief Secretery of the Cabinet (Hoshino) has been director
of the Planning Board.
The Minister of Agriculture (Ino) has been vice-director of
the Planning Board.
The Minister of Commerce and Industry is also a former vice-
director of the Planning Board.
The present Director of the Cabinet Planning Board, Lt. Gen.
Suzuki, continues as Minister without portfolio.
The Minister of Welfare (Koisumi) is an Army surgeon. (Emphasis
on high-quality conscripts?)
The Minister of Education is an M. D. (Emphasis on physical
and technical education?)
The Minister of Communicetions is a retired Admiral. (Emphasis
on war-time marine transport?)
The Minister of Justice is a career public procurator. (Strong
police control at home?)
6. As far as we can now judge, there is strong direction of interest to the
North rather than to the South.
Evidence:
Tojo himself has been outspoken in the past in warning the Japan-
ese to expect war with Russia.
As indicated under 4 above, Tojo, Hoshino (Chief Secretary),
Kishi (Commerce and Industry), Togo (Foreign Affairs), and
Tani (Information Bureau) all have strong Manchurian con-
nections. No strong southern connections balance these.
Both the Minister (Togo) and Vice-Minister (Nishi) of Foreign
Affairs are Russian experts. (Does this indicate a hope for
negotiations rather than war with Russia?)
7. There are fewer signs of compromise in this Cabinet than in most preceding
ones. (This may be a sign of weakness as well as strength: in the past
no-compromise cabinets usually have soon run into difficulties.)
Evidence:
The Cabinet is composed exclusively of career government ser-
vants, civil or military. It includes no representatives of
the nobility, the Diet, or private business.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP3-1942
Department of State
September 1, 1942.
IATE
UNDEL SECRET
894.002/515
U - Mr. Wellel
1942
AR WELLES
S - Mr. Secretary
The radio this morning carries a report from London
has resigned, and a report from Berlin that the portfolio
of the Foreign Ministry has been taken over by Prime
Minister Tojo. In this connection it may be of interest
to recall briefly Mr. Togo's reputation and experience.
Mr. Togo was formerly Ambassador to Moscow. He has
reportedly long favored a negotiated settlement with Russia
and is well acquainted with the intricacies of negotiating
with Soviet officials. Prior to his recall to Tokyo
from Moscow he reportedly had "virtually ready for signa-
ture" a political agreement between the Soviet Union and
Japan.
It is not believed that Mr. Togo's resignation, if
a fact, necessarily heralds the imminent approach of
Russo-Japanese hostilities -- other unrelated considera-
tions could equally well cause Mr. Togo's resignation.
However, if such hostilities were decided upon by the
Japanese Government after due consideration of all fac-
tors as being in the best interests of Japan's high policy,
the resignation of Mr. Togo as Foreign Minister"would be
a logical prelude to the opening of an attak on Russia
by Japan.
SEP.
3
PS/LIC
1942
4
FE:Bishop:MJK

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CJ
Born
This tologram must bo
closcly paraphrasod bo-
Datcd Scptomber 7, 1942
forc boing communicated
FROM
to anyono. (SC)
Roc'd 2:54 p.m.
ON POLITICAL
Division of
Sccrotary of State
VISER
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
SEP1 1942
SEP 9 - 1942
'iashington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
94.002
4089, Soptombor 7, 4 p.m.
STRICTLY COUFIDEFTIAL
894.002/516
Hilitary ttache reports following from "very
good sourco" which tends to confirm officlnl and
pross speculation rofarding reasons reconstruction
Japanese Forcign Ministry:
"According to woll informed Japanoso circlcs
Switzorland rosignation Togo was result disagroumont
botwoon Togo and Tojo concorning soopo nowly
formod ninistry for groater Asia. Now. Ministry
will tako over all political activitics castorn Asia
formerly handlod by Forcign Offico, thus grcatly
PS/MNP
rostricting lattor's activitios".
HARRISON
HRM
Confidential File
SEP 15 1942

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.94)
894.002/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
from the Foreign Office and have no military sigmificance.
States- is possible result of the resignations of Foreign Ministers
Togo and Vice Foreign Minister Nishi.
894.002/517
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Tel. 6006 8pm.
(Deepatoh, lelegram, imstraotiom, letter, ets.)
From/ Great Britain (Winant)
Dated Sept. 7, 1942
To
File No.
740.0011 Pao1f1o War/2793
PS/KN
1-1000
r
517

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Togo's resignation:
Informs of information from Tokyo regarding -.
894.002/518
For the original paper from which reference is taken
telegram #1303, 1 p.m.
See
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, eto.)
Sept. 5, 1942
From| France (Vichy) - (Tuck)
Dated
To
894.00/1162
File No.
PS/KN
81

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.92)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Cabinet - Ministry - Japan:
British ari French sourors of the opinion that Togo's
dismissal was iue to c sition to the crention by General
Tojo of Grenter East Asia Ministry, functione of which
would encro ch upon the prerogative of the Foreign Ministry.
894.00251
9
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Telegran 437.6pa.
(Deepatoh, lelogram, lastruotiom, lettes, eto.)
fromt
Confidential File
Dated
Sentember 2..1942..
U.S.S.R._(Kuibyckev)
To
J
S
File No.
793.94/17090
MMC
1-1000

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.96)
894.002/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Resignation of Japanese Foreign Minister Togo.
Submits reports taken from Federal Communications
Monitoring jervice Review of the wook, August 28--
September 3,1942, concerning -.
1mb
34.002
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Kemorandum
(Deepatck, telegram, imstruction, letter, eta.)
From
Dated ...... September.10,1942...
.State Department (Far Eastern Affairs)
To
-Fales.
PS/MMC
File No.
800.76 Monitoring /382
1—1000

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.92)
894.003
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Chinese editorial comment on the resignation of Japanese
Foreign Minister and Creation of "Greater Bast Asia Ministry."
Encloses copy of -.
894.002/ 522
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See 616
(Deepatob, telegram, tastruotiom, letter, eto.)
Dated.....ept..12...1942
From
...China.(Chungking) Gauss
File No.
893.9111/43
1-1840
Tes

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.95)
894.002/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Designation of Aoki as head of Ministry of Greater Asia.
Informs of -, and submits comments concerning -.
894.002523
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Te1./1567.7pm
(Deepatoh, telegram, tastractiom, letter, eta.)
Dated....0ct.21,1942
To
Confidential File
File No.
.894.00/1167

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.97)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT"Greater East Asia Ministry" and the Resignation of the
Japanese Foreign Minister: Encloses article from Cm-
TRAL DAILY NEWS of September 14, 1942 concerning -.
894.002/524
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See Despatch_#636
(Deepatoh, telegram, iastruotiom, letter, eto.)
From
Dated September..21.,..1942.
China.(Gauss)....
To
File No. ...894.00/1166.
1-18
111
524

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.90)
ENCLOSURES
Confidential
COFT NO.
(Clesenalea)
MILITARY ATTACHE REPORT AP
Sr/ject.
New Seoret Service Organinatid
5930
Argentine
3 Marah
904
Fom M. A.
Report No.1552
Souree and degros of rellablicys
Confidential
Rating: B-2
Sumnmaky.- Here exter careful summary of report, containing substance succinctly stated; imclede
important facts, names, plecss, dates, ete.
Until mugust 1943. Lt. Colonel Félix Harfa RosLs ms acting
G-2 of the Argontine Genoral Staff. Thon he ves attached to the
Comendo Gonerel del Interior (Heedcuarters of the Interior) where
he wes made acting director of the Dirección Genoral de I'ropaganda
del jército (Direction Goner 1 of rmy I'ropaganda). It is under
8
atood thet this orgenization hes now been ebolishod and that Colonel
EVALUATION:
ROBS has been placed in cherge of the new Dirección de Vigilancia
B-2
e Informaciones (Direction of Survcillance and Information). It is
94.
LWG
believed thet this is in reslity a coubined army searet service and
3-17-44
propagande orgenisation. It is likewise bolieved thet Colonel ROBL
is in charge of tho Presidential Secret Bervice organisation. Lt.
Colonel Infs GOLP was and probably is Chief of the Information
Section.
Direccián de Vigilancia e Informaciones has ite headquarters
in Buenos Aires at Juen Francisco Seguf 4460 Major Oscar A. VALOrTA
is in charge of administrative matters. The Direccidn also maintains
an office at the Gentral Post Office on the 7th floor, where inter-
cepted correspondence is examined. This office vas in existence in
1942 under Colonel UDRY. then head of "Army Informetion Service"
which reelly wes CasTiLLo's secret service, dirocted mostly apinst
Allied activities and igmorin; axis ones.
BECLASSIFIED
EQ. 11652. Sec. 3(E) and 5(D)
OHARLES HORY LKE.
Qsp letter, May 3. 1972
Major, A.U.S.
U
CHL/odm
Approved and Forwarded,
tolmessong
JOHN W. LANG. 
Brigadier General, U. S. Army,
Militery Attaché
AIS
Distribution by originstor
Rostiog epece below for me in M. I. D. The eection indicatig the detribstion wil place a check mark in the
AGF
AAF
808
ACds
Chief
EurA.
Far Emet
N. Amer.
Dlssem.
AIC
FLBR
088
1e
1
3
MAS.
CIG
Reo. Bac.
ONI
BEW
CWB
ENG.
OPD
ORD
QMe
1
1
3
2
2
Enclosures: none
#R.Plate 1
SS
2
Confidentiel
WAR DEPARTMENT
(Clrestfentdon)
O.C.8.17 (2ad Rev.)

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.95)
8A
mairtt
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
N
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Reference underlying OSS
memorundum entitlea "Jurisdiction,
Organigation and Personnel of
Japanese Greater East Asia Ministry"
This memorandum is a good out-
line. It contains no significant
information not already given in
memoranda prepared in FE in regard
to recent changes in the Japanese
Government set-up.
MR. HUKNDELK
JAN181943
FE:Sal1Mry:MHR

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.95)
11
6RLCEIVED
JAN 1 9 1943
PAHDCR
DIVISION OF
JURISDICTTON
AND PERSONNEL
OF JAFANESE GREATET EAST
ASJA MINISTRY
Divisiodof
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1943
JAN 1 5 1943
JURISIJOTION OF PHE MINISTRY
Depa tment of State
JAN 1
Cfly in FE
Territorial scope:
Ail Greater EastOAsia,
exeept Lhe Japanere painlond, Korea, Formosa and Kara-
futo
Rovever, in regions now under military government
1t seems thst the new Ministry  ither is not to operate
at the present or is to funetion in a limited way.
894.002/526
Authorlty
All business (other than the
'purely diplomatic") relating to polltical, economic and
894.002
cultural affairs. ineluding
(a)
Protection and supervision of Japanese in-
terests ond nationals;
(b)
Supervislon of colontvation, including
(1.)
Appllcation of milltary service
aw
"itai statictics and authoriza-
FEB
vlon of residence; and
(3) Pensions
5
1943
(c)
Problems relating o foreign residents and
interests, and
(d)
Other matters relating to currency, finance
and rade within the Co.rosperity Sphere.
PS/GS
3
Organizatlons replaced.
The G. E. A. Min-
Intry has replaced the following organizations, both
DECLASSIFIED
E.O. 11652, Sec. 3(E) and 5(D) or (E)
-1-
75.00.65
COMFIDENIRAL
By.
NARS, DateNOV.8 5 1974

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
assuming their functions and absorbing their personnel:
(a)
Independent bureaus, which reported directly
to the Premier:
(1) China Affairs Board*; and
(2)
Manchukuoan Affalrs Board;
(b) Juresus of the Department of Overseas Affairs
(Japan's Colonial Ministry**):
(1) Cclonization Dureau:
()
Northern Hegions Development
ureau; and
(3)
Southern Regions Development
Bureau; and
(c) East Asia sureau of the Foreign Ministry.
Lote: It in not certain that the above list
is complete
3.
CENTRAL ORGANIZATION
The central organization in Tokyo 1s composed
as follows:
Minister
2、
Vice-Minister
"KO A IN, sometimes translated "Doard of Asiatic
iffairs," is referred to herein as China Affairs Board,
hich is the trenslation employed in Japanese government
oublications prior to the var.
**supervision of the Governments General of Korea,
Formos: and Karafuto, formerly a function of the Department
or uverseas Affairs, has been transferred to the varioue
ministries charged ith Japin's internel affairs.
-2

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.91)
3. Six Councillors
4
A Seereteplat
Four urcaus
Detailee inropmetion concernine the central ergonization
followe
1. Vinister:
Karuo Aoki, formerly
Ninister of 3tate without Port-
fol1o (Sentember 17 to Nov:mber
1,1042)
Supreme lvisor to Nanking Gov-
ernment (uril 1940 to September
1942)
Finonce inister of Janon (in
Ibe Cabinet, Aurust 1939 to
January 1940)
Vice-i resident, and then Presi-
dent
of abinet Planning Board
Vics Pirector of Nanchurian
ffe1rs Joara (1936-37)
Jarcer official in the Pinance
:1n1stry (1916-37). (For pos1-
tions hrid see ho's ho in
anen, 1939 40).
Vice Pinirter:
Sumalghi  amamoto, formerly
Vice Hinister of Foreign Office
(Jertemter i to November 1. 1942)
こ

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Vice Minister (continued):
Director (1939 to 1942) succes-
sively of the following bureaus
of the Foreign Office:
Commerce Bureau
American Affairs Bureau
East Asia Bureau
Career employee of Foreign Min-
1stry, hoiding posts principally
in China (1911-39).
3. S1x Counc1llors:
The Councillors are to function
separately, and not as a committee,
each man being given a problem or
problems involving research and in-
vestigation, in connection w1th the
plans and policles of the Ministry.
In addition, the Councillors are to
serve as coordinating agents between
the Ministry and its field offices.
After the General Affairs Bureau of
the Ministry has determined what
problems are to be handled by each
Councillor, the Minister 1s to make
a public announcement of the assign-
ments. Of the 6 Councillors who
have been appointed, five were gov-
ernment officials at the time of
appointment. The sixth, a banker,
was connected ith the China Develop-
ment Commercial Bank at Shangha1.
One of the Councillors is a civil
engineer, one a former professor of
medicine. The details follow:
a.
Susumu Matsumura. formerly
Director, Cultural Division, China
Affa1rs Board, since January 1939
Graduate in medicine; since 1923
a Professcr at Chiba Medical Col-
lege; Librarian of that College.
-4-

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.95)
3. Six Councillors (continued):
b.
Shichiro Miura, formerly
Civil engineer, member of the
technical staff of the Peking
Construction Doard, believed
to be a subsidiary organization
of the China Affairs Board
Chief, Shimonoseki Public Norks
Office, Ministry of Home Affairs
(1936).
C.
Tateo Morishige, formerly
Director, Southern Regions De-
velopment Dureau, Ministry of
Overseas Affairs
Director, Colonization Bureau,
Manchukuo Department of Indus-
try (1936)
Career official of Overseas
Affaira Ministry.
d
Katauji Makano, formerly
Director of Control Bureav. Min-
lstry of Overseas Affairs (name
taken from apanese broadcasts;
Na1
not listed in Who's Who in
Japn, 1939-40).
e
Kaheita Okazaki, formerly
Director, since 1939, of China
Development Commercial Bank (Hua
Hsing Commercial Bank), first
Japanese-controlled note-issuing
bank in Central China, organized
in 1939 w1th head office in
Shangha1
-5-
CONNTDENW

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.95)
CONTTDRNMTU
Six Councillors (continued):
Connected ith Bank of Japan;
served in London office, then
as an investigator for its
Dusiness Bureau, and later as
Vice-Chief of the Bank s Foreign
Exchange Eureau.
Arata Sugihara, formerly
Section Chief in Foreign Office,
since 1938
Career diplomat: after service
as Chancellor of Embassy in U.S.
(1924) and in Foreign Office,
served as a Secretary of Lega-
t1on 1n China (1932) and Consul
at Shangha1 (1933).
4. Secretariat:
The Secretariat is divided into the
following 4 sections:
3.
Archives
b
Personnel
点
Accounts
d.
Telegraphy and Correspondence..
Four Bureaus:
The 4 Bureaus of the Ministry are as
follows.
a.
General Affairs Bureau
Bureau Chief.
Shimpe1 Takeuch1,
formerly
Investigator, since 1939, for
the North China Office, Liaison
Bureau, China Affairs Board
Various posts in Finance Minia-
try.
…6

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
5. Four Dureaus (continued):
Jurisdiction: All matters per-
taining to the adjustment of
ministerial affairs and the
elaboration of industrial,
communications, economic and
general policies.
Sections; The Bureau is divided
into the following sections:
(1)
General affairs
(2)
Economics and Finance*
(3)
Investigation
(4)
Lisison.
b. Manchukuo Bureau
Bureau Chief:
Toshio Imayosh1,
formerly
Director, Northern Development
Bureau, Ministry of Overseas
Affairs, since 1940
Director, Administration De-
partment, Kwantung Bureau
(1938-1940)
Official of Ministry of Over-
seas Affairs (1932-1938).
This Section is to serve as the "unifying organ"
of the Ministry"s economic policies throughout Greater
East Asig. and has been piven the task of dealing with
problems relating to capital, commodities, labor, trans-
portation and the l1ke.
7-
CONETDRNEL

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.98)
5. Four Bureaus (continued):
Jurisdiction: Matters pertain-
ing to the formation of Man-
chukuoan policies and matters
pertaining to the Kwantung
ureau, the South Manchurian
Railway, the Manchukuo Tele-
phone & Telegraph Company,
and the Manchukuo Development
Company.
Sections: The Bureau 1s divided
into the following 5 sections:
(1)
General Affairs
(2)
dministration
(3)
conomics and Finance
(4)
Colonization
(5)
Youth.
China
areau
Bureou Chief.
Uzuhiko Uaam1,
formerly
Director, Economic Section,
Chira Arfairs Board, since
194C
Minisuer to Egynt (1940)
Counsellor of Embassy,
Ferl1n (1938-1940)
Career dinlomat; Consul
General at Mukden (1935),
at Fuchow (1934) and Consul
at Antung (1920).
-8

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
5.
Four Dureaus (continued):
Jurlsdiction
Formation of pol-
ley nd administration of
affairs pertoininp to China,
including finance, trade, com-
munications, pgriculture,
forestry and fisheries and the
promotion of cultural enter-
priaes; sunervision of Japanese
public bodies in China and of
the North China Development
Company* and Central China
Development Company."
Sections
(1)
General Affairs
(2)
4dministration
()
Culture
(4)
Economics
(5)
Agriculture and Forestry
(6)
Commerce and Industry
(7)
Press.
South Seas Bureau
Burcru Chief:
Itaro Mizuno,
formerly
Director, end various ot er
posts, in Commercial Affairs
Jureau. oreign inistry
(1929-1942)
Served in Umbass1es in Belglum
and France, 192i-28; took his
university degree at Tokyo and
Paris Univercities in French
1a (1330)
*lo ding comnanies for "investing in and subsidizing
apencies enrared in reconstruction and development under-
tokings in orth and Central China (Japan Year Book,
1940-1941.)
-9-

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
5
Four Bureaus (continued):
Jurisdiction General Affairs
connected with the southern
regions, including the "pro-
tectlon" of Thailand and Indo-
China, education of Japanese
in those areas and administra-
tion of cultural enterprises,
finance, trade, agriculture,
forestry and fisheries, com-
munications and other business.
Sections: The Bureau has the
following six sections:
(1)
General Affairs
(2)
Administration
(3)
Culture
(4)
Economice
(5)
Production
(6)
Communications.
C.
FIELD ORGANIZATLON IN OCCUPIED CHINA AND INNER
MONGOLIA
The field organisation in Occupied China and
Inner Mongolia is as follows:
1. The Ambassador to China
2
Four Ministers Plenipotentiary
Consula General
4. Consul3.
The cutstanding faet to be noted about the
field organization is its cual character, as an agency
of the Foreign Office in matsers that are "purely
-10-

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.97)
diplomatic" and as an agency of the G.E.A. Ministry in
all other matters. ll appointments are to be made by
the G.S.A. Minister; the approval of the Foreign Minis-
ter is required only in the cases of Ambassadors,
inisters Pleninotentiary and cert in other high offi-
cials.*
1.
Ambassador:
The Japanese Ambassador in Nanking 1s
to be the head of the field organiza-
tion in Occupied China and Inner Mon-
golia. The present Ambassador is
Mamoru Shigemitsu who took office in
February, 1942. He was formerly Am-
bassador to Great Britain (1938-41)
and to Russia (1936-38); Vice Minis-
ter of the Foreign Off1ce (1933);
Minister to China (1931-32); various
posts in Tokyo, China and Europe
(1911-1930).
2.
Pour Ministers
Plenipotentiary: The 4 Ministers Plenipotentiary re-
side in Nanking, Kalgan, Peking and
Shanghal, respectively. The Minis-
tere are subordinates of the Ambas-
sador in both Foreign Office and
G..A. matters, but there are certain
subjects (specified below) on which
they report directly to the G.E.A
Minister. There seems to be no
Minister Plenipotentiary having Juris-
diction over Hainan Island or over
the occupled portions of Kwantung and
Hupeh Provinces.
*Avallable information does not specify what high
officials must be approved by the Foreign Minister.
-11-

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.98)
2. Four Ministers Plenipotentiary (continued):
Nanking Embassy
Minister:
Tateko Horiuchi, formerly
Minister to China, and concur-
rently Consul General at Shangha1,
appointed in September, 1940
Director, Asiatic Affairs Bureau,
Foreign Ofrice (1939)
Consul General at Peking (1939),
Tientsin (1938) and previously
at Sydney, Australia; other posts
in China and England.
Staff:
No information avallable, but
presumably the Minister's staff
will le identical with that of
the Nanking Embassy.
Jurisdiction: No subdivision of Chinese
territory 1s assigned to this
Minister. Therefore, and be-
cause he resides at the capital
city, it 1s inferred that he
will deal with matters relating
to Occupied China as a whole
rather than to any particular
area.
b
Xalgan Embassy Branch
Minister.
Mal Cen. Tamio Iwasaki, formerly
Director, Llaison Sureau, China
Affairs Board, eprointed in 1942
A Tokyo broadcast has stated that, together with the
counscllora and military and naval attaches of the Embassy,
he Minister will form an "inner council" to advise the
mbassador on important matters.
-12-

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
2. Four Ministers Plenipotentiary (continued):
Commander 39th Infantry Brigade,
20th Division at Seoul, Korea.
Steff;
An amalgamation of the staffs of
the Consulate General at Kalgan
and the Mongolian Office, Liaison
Dureau, China Affairs Board.
Organization: No information available.
Jurisdiction: Matters pertaining to Inner
Mongolia, not including "admin-
istrative affairs relating to
Japanese nationals."
On cer-
tain business relating to the
puppet government of Inner
Mongolia (called the Federated
Autonomous Government of Meng-
klang) the Minister will report
directly to the G.E.A. Minister
instead of to the Ambassador.
C
Peking Embasay Branch
Minister:
MaJ. Gen. K1yonobu Sh1yozewa,
formerly
Vice Director, Liaison Bureau,
China Affairs Board, since March
1941
Investigator, North China Office,
Liaison Bureau, China Affairs
Board
Served with Kwantung Army in
Manchuria.
The nature of the business covered by this phrase
is not clear, but presumably it relates to the Japanese
Residents Agsociations, through which the Japanese Gov-
rnment taxes, conscripts and otherwise controls its
nationals in China.
-13-

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.96)
Pour Xinisters Plenipotentiory (continued):
Staff
An amalgamation of the Peking
staff of the Japanese Embassy
and the staff of the North
China Office, Lialson Bureau,
China ffairs Board.
Organization:
(n) Secretariat
Pureaus
1
General Affairs
C
Public dministration
3.
Economics
4.
Financial Affairs
5.
Culture.
Jurisdi tion. Matters pertaining to North
China (i. e., the occupied por-
tions of Hope1, Shantung, Honan
and Shansi Provinces). Func-
tions include supervision of
Horth China Development Company,
but not "administrative affairs
reloting to Jananese nationals."
In cert in business relating to
the North China Pol1tical Af-
fairs Committee* the Minister
will report directly to the
C.U.A. Minister in Tokyo rother
than to the Ambassador.
Shanghai mtassy ranch
Finister
kiyoshi Taliri. formerly
*The North China Political Affairs Committee is the
name under which the pupnet "Peking Provieional Govern-
ment" har survived since 1938, when it vas subordinated
to ang Shing-wei"s Nonking repime.
*A Tokye broadcast has referred to this Branch Em-
tassy as the "liaison office for unifying Imperial Gov-
ernment policies relating to China."
-1.4～

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.91)
? Pou" inistere Flentrot entiary (conttnued):
Conrul General in Shanphal
(1938-42)
Seetlon Chief, Research Bureau,
Foreirn 0rf1ce (1937-38)
Carcer cfficiel of Foreign
Of:ic
ixcert for study and
brif sorvice in Englend in
 ll previous service
vn in hine and in the Last
Acja Bureau, Foreign Office.
Jtaff
An amalgamation of the pereonnel
of the Shanghai Consulate General
an that of the Contral China
Office, Liaison bureou,
China
arfolrs boord
rgoniretion
(1) Secretariat
(2) vureaus
(a)
General Affairs
(b)
Public Administretion
(c)
Economics
(a)
Financicl Affairs
(e)
Culture
Jurisdiction. Matter pertaining to Kiangsu,
Cheklang and Anhwei frovinces (but
aprarenily not the occupied por-
LHona ef Huneh and Kwantung Prov-
inces ror "ainon Island), surer-
viston of the Sentral China De-
velopment Jomrany; and, appar-
ently 'acninistrative affairo
-15-

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
2. Four inisters Pienipotentiary (continued):
relating to Japanese resi-
dente.
3. Consulates General:
Supervision:
On Foreign Office matters the Con-
sulates General report to the Am-
bassador at Nanking. On all other
mattcrs they are under the super-
vision of the  inister Plenipo-
tentiery in vhose territory they
ars located.
Staffs:
In Canton, Hankow, Nanking, Tsing-
tac, Tientsin, Tatung, Amoy and
other important cities where the
Liaison Bureau of the China Affairs
Board has had offices, the staffs
of those offices will"be absorbed
by the respective Consulates
General.
Organization: In the cities last mentioned, ex-
cept Amoy, the Consulates Generel
vill be organized into the follow-
ing sections
(a)
General Affairs
(0)
Public :dministration
(c)
Economics
(a)
Culture.
In Amoy and other less important
places the organization, presum-
ably., is to be less complex.
If the information on this point is correct, then
the Shanghai Lmbassy Branch has been given a function that
ias been withheld from the Kalgan and Peking Branches.
-16-

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.93)
3. Consuiates General (continued):
New Offices:
New Consulates General have been
or viil be establlehed in "ang-
chow. Soochow, Kaifeng and other
provincial capitsls where such
offices nave not previously
existed.
4. Consals
The Consul: ill function under the supervision
of tue Consulates Ceneral.
D.
The organization in anchuauo consipts only
of the tubaesador oni the con sul r officers.
Antas saGor.
(leneral Xosnijiro Umezu,* appointed
Anosssador and concurrently Commander-
in- Chier of the Kwantung Army (Septem-
ter
1979). and formerly
Commander, Sth Inrantry Division,
nchusuo (2-39)
iee inlater of Wer. Hiroto
Lauinet  Harch 1936 to May 1938)
Alternated beiween active command
of troops in Japan and posts in
the Hilitary Aflairs bureau of the
Wer M1nistry (1958-36)
Staffe
No irformatlon available: presumably
the present diplomatic personnel in
Hanchukuo will remain unchanged.
"Hade full Ceneral in August 1940.
-17-

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.95)
Organization
No information avallable: presumably
the organization will remain unchanged,
the Kwantung Bureau of the Embassy et
Hsinking con inuing to adninister
business reinting to the South Hanchur-
an ailway cone and the Kwantung Leased
erritory. but under the Hanchukuoan
ffairs ureau of the G L.a. Ministry
inctead of under the Hanchukuoan
ffairs boar? as before.
 ORGANZAPTON  SOUTEPN ARLAS
ponen Indo China
he or aniration in Intto China concl sts of an
mbassader st Lerge, a Hinister al Lar e and the consul.
r services
Amunesador at Large Kenkichi Yoshizaws sent as
speclal envoy to rench Indo- China.
Seplember 1941. raised to ambassa-
dorial rank Octcber 27. 19-1, he was
formerly
Speclal Econom1c Envoy to the
Netnerlanas East Indies (Novem-
ber 30 13:0)
Vice Hinister, Oversees Affairs
Depertment
Loreign Hinister (in Inukai Cabinet
December 13. 1931)
Ambassador to France and Japan-
ese represcntative on Learue of
Netions Counc1l (1929-31)
Minister at Peking (1923-29)
18

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Director, Foreign Office Bureaus of
Political Affairs and East Asia
Affairs, respectively (1919-23)
Other posts in China and at London.
Finister-at-Large: Iwataro Uchiyama, sent as special
envoy to French Indo-China in
September 1941, and formerly
Minieter to Argentina, Paraguay
and Uruguay (February 1938 to
September 1941)
Councillor of Empassy, Paris
(1937)
First Secretary of Embassy,
Braz11 (1934-36)
Consul General, Sao Paolo, Brazil
(1931-34)
Other posts in South America,
Europe and China.
Staffs:
Since the Foreign Office 1s the only
branch of the Japanese Government
known to have had agencles in French
Indo-China, the Embassy et Hanoi and the
Embassy Branch at Saigon are presumably
staffed entirely with Foreign Office
personnel.
Organization
The Ambassador appears to reside gener-
ally at Hanoi. though his duties often
take him elsewhere. The inister ap-
pears to reside in Saigon; t..ere are
known to be consulates general at Hanoi
and Saigon, and preeumably consulates
have been set up in numerous smaller
cities.
-19-

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
Jurisdiction: The relative authority of the Ambas-
sedor and ilinister is nowhere defined;
presumably their functions and powers
are similar to those of their counter-
parts in the more elaborate organiza-
tion in China.
2.
Thailand
The organization in Thailand consisls only of
the Ambassador and the.consular officers.
Amoassador:
eiji Tsubogami (or Tubokami), eent on
August 15. 1941, as Japan"s first envoy
of ambassadorial rank to Thailand:
formerly
Privy Councillor to the Hanchurian
Government (June 194o to August 15,
1941)
Chief, Cultural Undertekings Depart-
ment, Foreign Office (1929-34)
Secretary, East Asia Bureau, Foreign
Cff1ce (1923)
Consul General, Hongkong (1920)
Other posts in London, Tsitsihar
(Manchukuo) and Vladivostok.
Staff:
The organization of tne Embassy and
consular services in Thailand appears
to remain unchanged.
Oreanization: No ministers plenipotentiary have been
appointed, Besides the Embassy and
Consulate General at Bangkok, there are
known to be consulates at Singora and
Chiengmai, and there may be others.
-20-

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.97)
F.
FILLD ORGANIZATION IN OTHER TERRITORIES
There is no indication that personnel of the
Greater East Asia inistry has been appointed for the
Philippines. the East Indies, Malaya or Burma. Presum-
ably it is not intended that the inietry's activities
shall be extended to those territories so long es they
are under military administration.
-21-

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
LSH
Chungking vin NoR.
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated May 6, 1943
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (SC)
REc'd 12:29 pem.
DUSSION ?
File
aCFAIRC
Divisibn of
SEcrEtary of StatE
CAND
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MAY
jashington,
MAY 8 - 1943
WEIAHIMENI OI STATI
partment of State
002/527
656, Hay 6, noon
Yesterday in conversation with the Generalissira
hE stated in reply to my questions that hE did not
feel varranted in aing any interpretation of
894.002
thE JapanesE cabinet changes until the new cabinet
menibers had been functioning for sone weeks and
note
that with rEgard to Russian-rolish rElations his
760C.61
own views werE in conformity with thosE he under-
PS/RA
stood to bE hEld by thE American Government. HE
showeu an interest in GenEral Stilwell's trip
MAY 1 4 1943
and vas plecped at Ceneral Hearn's statement that
FILED
General stilvell seemed optomistic in a message
he had just received.
Confidential File
VINC TIT
LICR

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
LSH
Chungking via NoR.
This telegran must bE
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated May 6, 1943
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (SC)
Rec'd 12:29 pom.
DIVSION?
File
aCFAIRC
Divisibn of
SEcrEtary of StatE
CAND
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MA
jashington,
MAY 8 - 1943
ES
WErAHIMENI UI SIATl
partment of State
656, Hay 6, noon
Yesterday in conversation with the Generalissira
527
hE stated in reply to my questions that hE did not
feel warranted in aling any interpretation of
894.002
thE JapanesE cabinEt changes until the new cabinet
menibers had been functioning for sone weeks and
that with rEgard to Russian-rolish rElations his
760C.61
own views werE in conformity with thosE he under-
PS/RA
stood to bE held by the American Government. He
showed an interest in General Stilwell's trip
MAY 1 4 1943
and was plecsed at General Hearn's statement that
FILED
General stilvell sEemed optomistic in & mEssage
hE had just received.
Confidential File
VINCTINT
LICR

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.97)
DCR
file
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VSION
Apr11 21, 1943
CONFIDENTIAL
S
Mr. Seoretary:
Changes in the Japanese Cabinet
Hideki
The most important change in the Japanese Cabinet
88
6
was, of course, the appointment of Mr. Mamoru Shigemitsu
94.002/528
as Minister for Foreign Affairs. GeneralTolo's assumption
of the Education Portfolio and Lt. Gen! Ando s appointment
as Home Minister are also noteworthy. A new Minister with-
out Portfolio and a new Minister for Agriculture and Forestry
894.002
were also appointed. Mr. Eiji Amau was made President of
the Board of Information.
Japanese radio broadcasts for Japanese reception have
emphasized that these changes represent a "drastic expansion
and solidification of foreign and domestic policies", and a
strengthening of the Government.
Mr. Shigemitsu, a "career" diplomat and statesman,
having had wide experience as Chief of Mission in China,
in Soviet Russia (1936-1938), and in Great Br1tain (1938-
194l) and being well acquainted with world political
affaira, 1s probably better qualified than any other
prominent Japanese statesman to deal with a wide range of
problems in foreign affairs (Axis relations, Soviet
neutrality, relations with puppets, and possible future
peace overtures). His most recent position was that of
Ambassador at Nanking, China. With Premier Tojo and Mr. Aoki
(Minister of Greater East Asiatic Affairs), Mr. Shigemitsu
1s credited with inauguration last November of Japan's
"new policy" toward China. As Foreign Minister he will be
able to strengthen that policy and should be more acceptable
to the puppet Chinese than his predecessor. It is beliewed
that he is pereona grata with Soviet Russia, the most
R
FIL
2
important "neutral" in the Pacific war.
8
0
as
/MJN
vated largely by a desire "to take up all slack" in intertal
administration, to provide the most competent administrators,
and to effect greater unity in home affairs, in foreign and
domestic propaganda and in the proseoution of the war.
Mr. Amau

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.93)
-2
Mr. Amau made the well-known "hands off China" statemen
when he was Foreign Orfice spokesman in 1934. General
appointment and General Tojo s assumption of a new offie
would seem to represent a further strengthening through
the important ministries of Home Affairs and Education
of the Government's grip on the people.
In summary these changes are believed to represent in
fact a strengthening of the Japanese cabinet. They would
not seem to suggest any deviations in basio polioies.
3.7.0.
r
mwe 
FE:Bishop:MJF

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
al/so
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATEWHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
rge Departments
Department of State
AIRG
Full rate
Day letter
Washingion,
Night letter
Charge to
April 7, 1943.
$
This cable wss aent in confidential Code.
9m
AMEMBASSY,
beina condn
KUIBYSHEV (U.S.S.R.)
221
d before
se
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL.
894.002
One. The following comment on the recent changes in the
Japanese Cabinet has been received from our Embassy at London:
A British journalist formerly prominent in Shanghai ad-
vanoed the thesis that Shigemitsu's job is to pave the way for
894.002/528A
inasmueh
7.24.
a compromise peace as Japan is preparing for the defeat of
Germany end the concentration of United Nations forces against
1tself. Foreign Office officials discount this thesis and ex-
press the belief that Shigemitsu was appointed primarily to
rcilitx
toward China. Another British official expressed some appre-
hension that Shigemitsu's appointment might cause additional
Chinese to Join the Nanking régime. The British Foreign
Office'seemed to feel that Japan was following a military
policy not repeat not involving new aggressive action but
rather a policy of consolidating present gains.
Two. Our Embassy at Chungking has commented along lines
as follows:
Enciphered by
Sent by operater
M.,
19

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
PREPARING OFFICE
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Full rate
TELEGRAM SENT
Collect (Day letter
Night letter
CLEAR
Charge Department:
Department of State
AIRGRAM
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
-2-
Washington,
Charge to
Although there has been no repeat no apparent factual basis,
$
Chinese officials have continued for the past two years to pre-
dict either that Japan would soon make war on Soviet Russia or
that Japan was about to make a deal with Soviet Russia. There
ere differing opinions among official Chinese circles, and each
of the foregoing contrary predictions is made in interpreting
the significance of the recent Cabinet changes in Japan. Recent
Japanese moves to gain confidence of the Chinese in occupied
areas may also be used in an attempt to weaken Chinese will to
resistance. Japanese troops are reportedly to be greatly reduced
in north China and puppet troops substituted therefor. Japan
also is said to intend to have Wang Ching-wei move his seat of
government to Peiping from Nanking. O Embassy believes that
this campaign will have little effect upon Chinese in general
and no appreciable effect on Chinese in control of the Govern-
ment in Chungking.  Embassy does not repeat not believe that
the primary signiricance of Shigemitsu's appointment lies in
Japan's plans for implementing its QUOTE China appeasement
policy UNQUOTE. Although Japan may have decided to attack
Russia, tre Shwegile& Embassy does. not repeat not believe that
the Japanese Cabinet changes could be interpreted as evidence of
such a decision, positive indications of which were lacking in
Chungking.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
SECRET
fFull rato
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
Collect {Day letter
RESTRICTED
Night letter
CLEAR
Charge Department:
Department of State
AIRGRAM
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
-3
Washington,
Charge to
Three. Comment by ofricers of the Department is as
s
follows:
The Japanese Government in making the recent changes in
the Japanese Cabinet was probably motivated largely by a desire
to take up all slack in 1nternal administration, to take ad-
vantage of the most competent administrators available, to
and
750
bring about greater unity in home affairs, in foreign and
domestic propaganda, and to facilitate consolidation o Japan's
position and prosecution of the war. In general, it is believed
that the new appointments to the Cabinet do, in fact, represent
releat20ot
a strengthening of the Japanese Government. They would not seem
to suggest deviation in basic policies.
Shigemiteu, who has served as ambassador in Soviet Russia, in
England, and in China, is probably better qualified than any other
statesman in Japan to deal with a wide range of problems in for-
eign affairs such as Axis relations, Soviet neutrality, relations
with puppets and possible future peace overtures. He aided the
inauguration last November of Japan's QUOTE soft UNQUOTE poliey
toward China and should be more acceptable to the puppet Chinese
than his predecessor. While not especially popular with Soviet
officials it is believed that he is not repeat not disliked by
the Soviet Government. Shigemitsu has on previous occasions let
it be known that he favors completely Japan's domination of East Asia.
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
. S. G0VEINT PRINTING OP7ICE 10-2000-1

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
SECRET
(Fuil rate
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL
Collect Day letter
Night letter
RESTRICTED
CLEAR
Charge Department:
Department of State
AIRGRAM
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
-4-
Washington.
Charge to
$
For some time Japan has desired to bring about peace between
Germany and Soviet Russia. Japan's efforts in this direction
will probably continue.
Settlement of the QUOTE China 1ncident UNQUOTE has been
promised the Japanese people for the past several years. The
former policy of terror and pillage has failed and, with
Shigemitsu as Foreign Minister, the QUOTE soft UNQUOTE policy
may be pushed vigorously in an effort to bring about a greater
degree of cooperation from puppet Chinese and to create in fact
civil war in China. Similarly Japan may attempt to promote
better relations with the inhabitants of other occupied regions.
Past events have shown, however, that Japan always reverts to a
policy of enslavement of conquered peoples and no repeat no
basic change in Japanese character or Japanese policy of
absolute domination 1s foreseeable.
In summary, it is believed that the Japanese Government has
been strengthened; that the changes in themselves do not repeat
not offer positive indications that a new offensive is planned
for the immediate future; that Japan may be expected to continue
1ts diplomatic efforts to strengthen 1ts relations with Soviet
Russia and, if possible, to bring about a peace between Soviet
Russia and Garmany; that the expedient of a QUOTE soft UNQUOTE
policy toward China and possibly toward other peoples in the
Enciphered by
Sant by operater
M..
19
 10-00000-1

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.95)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT Japanese Cahinet changes.
Encloses ∞ p" of nemorandum of conversation concerning the
interpretations of recent -.
894.002/529
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Des.#1128
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eba.)
DatedApri1 30.1943
From
China(Chungking)
Racx
Vincent
File No.
894.00/1182
1-1540
625

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
MR HOHNDEK
NOV241943
ΛJ
TELEGRAM REČEIVED
Bern
Dated November 18; 1943
FROM
Reotd 9:30 pim
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
LIAISON
NOV 2 3 1943
Jile
NOV 1 9 1943
Department of State
copies to owo 11/19/43
7243, 18th
894.002/530
Tokyo DNB despatch No
oports appoint-
ment following Japanese cabinet councilors
Fugivara Minister without Portfolio, Lieutenant
General Suz-uki President Planning Bureau, Yoshizuki
Aijukawa President Manchurian Industrial Company,
Keita Hoto President Tokyo Railway Company
German conment states Tokyo political circles
attribute special importance to Fugivara's appoint-
ment considering that his experience in handling
Japanese industrial and munitions problems will
make him most valuable ndviser to Premier (as
Minister of Munitions) in "building up state ap-
paratus for total warfare".
HARRISON
DEC3 1943
MRM

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Consul General Baron Yasushi Hayashi, Japanese
Foreitn Office Delegate on the TEIA MARU
894.002/ 531
Comments concerning attitude of - d uring period
of exchange of Japanese and American nationals
at Mormugao.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
(Despaich, telegram, iastructioa, letter, etc.)
From
894.002/
DatedOctober 27. 1943
LourencoMarques
Tx
Preston in Mormugao
File No. 701.0090/3181
val File
al
1-1800
53

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.96)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Creation of Ministry of Transport and Communica ions on Novomber
1,1943:
Informs of - in Japan; personnel of Ministry.
894.002/532
mjn
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See __Tel.#
(Deepaloh, telegram, tastractios, letter, eta.)
From
Dated.....Jan.4.1944
International Bureau of Telecommunication
7911
Union
File No.
1-1000

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJB-592
Moscow
This telegram must be
FROM
Dated February 21, 1944
paraphrased before being
communicated to anyone
Rec'd 7:50 a.m., 22nd
other than a Governmental
agency. (BR).
Secretary of State,
Division of
FAR FASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
Depa iment of Slate
570, February 21, 8 a.m.
Moscow newspapors of February 20 reported that
894.002
Japanese Ministers for Communications, Agriculture
and Trade, and Finance had been replaced. Hatta
Yamadzaki and Kaja respectively were replaced by
Goto, Utsida and Isivata.
894.002/533
HARRIMAN
BB
3241944
17
FILD

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.94)
IA
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
MLR6970
Moscow
This telegram must be
paraphrased befcro be ing
Datod February 21, 1944
communiccted to anyone
othor than a Governmental
Rec'd 5:10 p.m., 23rd.
agency. (RR)
Secretary of State,
k
Wash:ngton.
FW 894.002/533
570, February 21, 8 n.m.
Moscow nowspapers of Febru ry 20 reported that
894.002
Japanese Ministers of Communications, .griculture and
Trade, and Finance had been replaced. Hatta, Yamadzak1
and Kaja respectively were replaced by Goto, Utsida
and Isivata.
H.RRIM.N
EJH
PS/MO
77
C.
FILED
251944

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
MIR6920
Moscow
This telegram must be
paraphrased befcre be ing
Dated February 21, 1944
communicated to anyone
Rectd 5:10 p,m., 23rd.
othor than a Governmental
agency, (BR)
Division of
Secretary of State,
FAH EASTERN OFFAIRS
Washington.
FW
Dopa. tmeat of State
894.002/533
570, February 21, 8 a.m.
Moscow newspapers of February 20 reported that
894.002
Japanese Ministers of Communications, i.griculture and
Trade, and Finence had been replaced. Hatta, Yamadzaki
and Kaja respectively were replaced by Goto, Utsida
and Isivata.
H.RRIMN
EJH
PS
/MO
FEB 25 1944
FILED

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
FE3 28194h
FROM PLAIN
AMT-129
Depa tmeghof State
Bern
Dated February 26, 1944
Rec'd 6 Pome
Secretary of State.
Washington.
1168, TmEnty-sixth.
German press takes position JapanEsE cabinet changes
894.802
reflect desire coordinats and centralize authority for
Effeotive proseoution of war and considers alternations
made less for political than for technical considerations
in order placE most able men in supreme control.
BErlin DEUTSCHE ALLGE EINE ZEITUNG publishes Tokyo
despatch February 21 stating eabinet reshuffle long planned
and Entirely uninfluenoed by forcign politics. Japanese
894,002
war policies alrzady definitsly fixed for duration and
individual cabinet changes de mot alter basie policics.
Tojo by nEw appointments has Inereased cabinet's authority
and government•s power. New Finanoe Minister Ischiwata
FEB 2 9 1944
stated would follow pelieies predecessor and plans no
alterations. New Minister Agrieulture Commerce Uschida
drolared any changes would be earefully atudied and
lowly

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- #1168, Twenty-sixth, from Bern
slowly developed. New Transport Minister Goto maid hi
duties are to invigorate Existing organizationa.
ESSEN NATIONAL ZEITUNG publishEs Tokyo deopatoh
February 22 stating Tojo's intention known for somt time
to inoreasE cabinet's power and ExecutE wishes Japancse
peoples for centralization authority. ThreE new
appointments will intensify war efforts and expedite
solution important questions concerning production.
Tojo action will render reletions bstwten cabinet and
armed forces cloaed and ensure united front for final
viotory.
Other leading German papers publishes similar
despatohes.
ILIRRISON
MRM

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Report on Greater East Asia Ministry submitted.
894.002/ 535
For the original paper from which reference is taken
#13993
See
(Deepalok, telegram, imstraotion, lettes, ela.)
804.002/
Feb.25,1944
From/ Argentina(Millard)
Confidential File
Dated
To
701.0090/3582
File No.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.94)
fli
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DIWISTON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT
RECEIVL
19440F STATE
FET 22 1944
U
UNDER
Mr. Stettinius
SECRETARY
Recent Japanese Political Changes
On February 19, 1944 Premier Toja announced three changes
in the Japanese Cabinet.) These shifts were made "To cope with
... both politics and war..." There have recently been a num-
(
ber of indications of friction between the government and the
people, and between the military and civilians in the govern-
ment, and the careers of the new Cabinet members would appear to
894.002/5
indicate that Tojo picked men to represent sections of influen-
ial and potentially hostile Japanese public opinion.
The new Finance Minister, Sotaro Ishiwatari, held the same
bost in the Hiranuma Cabinet of 1939 and is identified with an
influential group of statesmen who, though out-and-out
nationalists, endeavored to keep Japen out of the war and who
opposed the Tripartite Pact of 1940.
5
3
sHas
The new Minister of Agriculture and Commerce, Shinya Uchida,
9
was a leading member of the Seiyukai perty before all political
parties were dissolved three years ago. His appointment might
indicate that Tojo feels it necessary to seek the support of
the old-line politicians who may still wield considerable in-
fluence.
The new Minister of Communications and Transportation, Keita
Goto, was the nresident of one of the private electric railways
VF
recently bought up by the government and he may have been ap-
pointed to soothe resentment in private enterprise generally
against growing government controls.
This is Tojo's second cabinet reconstruction. On both oc-
casions he discarded military men and bureaucrats and replaced
P
them with personalities capable of influencing important sections
S
of public opinion.
Following the admission of serious losses at Truk, Tokgo an-
nounced on February 2l that Field Marshal Gen Sugiyama ane Flt
3QB
Admiral Nageno had been relieved of their posts as Chiefs of
Army and Navy General Staffs respectively. Tojo, who is Ire
Premier, War Minister, and Munitions Minister, has taken yer
the position of Army Chief of Staff, while the Navy Minis er,
Chiefs are apparently not in disgrace, for they will hereafter
act as highest military advisers" to the Emperor. Tokyo states
that these changes were made to strengthen the relation between
7
the military and the national administration.
ERA.
Qivb
JA:Benninghoff:MHP

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
89 y..02
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
RUSON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 19, 1944
JAPANESE CABINET CHANGES
The Information Board at Tokyo announced that at
9 p.m. on February 19, 1944 (Tokyo time) the Premier,
General Tojo, had announced three cabinet changes to
the Emperor, as follows:
Finance:
Sotaro Ishiwatari
for
Okinobu Kaya
Agriculture and
Shinya Uchida
Commerce:
for
Tatsunosuke Yamazaki
Transportation and
Keita Goto
Communications:
for
Yoshiaki Hatta
Ishiwatari has been in financial matters most of his
career. He was Minister of Finance in the Hiranumm Cabi-
not (1939) and Secretary of the Yona1 Cabinet (1940) and
as such may be identified with the "Hiranuma Group" which
MAY
tried "to keep the pot from boiling over". He has also
been financial adviser to the Nanking Government.
2
3
Uchida is a businessman and politician. He was in thet?
Seiyukai Cabinet of General Tanaka in 1927 and was Railways
Minister in the Okada Cabinet of 1935-36, during whioh he
became involved in a bribery scandal for whioh he was
imprisoned. He may be said to represent the old-line
political parties which were abolished three years ago.
Goto is a businessman identified with private rail-
way interests in Japan. Recently the Government bought
up most, if not all, of the private railway lines in the
country. (Feeder lines of slight mileage.)
The three retiring officials were chiefly known as
bureaucrats without any great influence in any portion
of public opinion.
The

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The Premier announced that the changes were made
"To cope with ... both politics and war ..." From the
careers of the individuals involved, and also from
other indications that there has recently been consider-
able criticism of Tojo's policies, it can be conjectured that
Tojo made the shifts in order to strengthen his Cabinet
by giving him the support of different influential groups.
The appointment of Ishiwatari might have been made to
mollify that group of prominent Japanese, headed by Hira-
numa, who although radical nationalists nevertheloss en-
deavored to prevent Japan from entering on a suicidal war;
they fought against the Tripartite Pact with Germany and
Italy.
The appointment of Uchida might be taken as an indi-
cation that the Premier is beginning to feel the need for
the support of the old-line politicians who became so
malodorous in the thirtys and who were finally disbanded.
It is not unlikely that they still wield influence in the
provinces. Moreover, Uchida has been president of one of
the Regional Deliberative Councils established last summer
and as such would be in a position to learn a great deal
about agricultural difficulties, such as the production
and distribution of food.
It is possible that Goto's appointment came as a re-
sult of Tojo's need for representation in his Cabinet of
private enterprise. Perhaps there was resentment agal nst
the recent purchase of private rai lways, and the appoint-
ment to Cabinet rank of the president of one of the largor
lines might assist in quelling that resentment and at the
same time gain the support of private enterprise in general.
Thie is the second important change in Tojo's govern-
ment, the first being about a year ago. There have also
been additions in the form of ministers without portfolio
and in advisers. The trend has been away from generals
and admirals to individuals representing important sec-
tions of the national life on which the government had to
rely for support in its intensive production campaign.
The Premier is apparently finding out that he cannot rule
by the sword alone.
Although such information as we have is fragmentary,
1t seems evident that Tojo is not as popular as he once
was. There are also indications of friction between the
military and the civilian sides of the government, and be-
tween the people and the government as a whole. It seems
to be the general feeling that the Japanese people are
boginning

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
beginning to realize that they cannot win the war, and
that as a consequence they will force Tojo out of office
whenever a serious defeat (or perhaps even an intense
bombing of Japan) demonstrates that Japan's military lead-
ers have led the country astray.
It is idle at this time to speculate on the nature
of the government which will succeed Tojo.
A~3,
FE:Benninghoff:MKW

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
Cahinet, Japa
[OOPY:PI:V7X]
Copy to PA/H
January 27, 1942
JAPAN
Reports Taken from the Federal Cemmunieation
Jommiscion e Momitoring Service - January 27,
1942, in regard to Conditions in Japan.
"The installation ceremony of the Mew Philippine
Government took place yesterday in Manila. It is con-
stituted as follows: (No names are clear)
President:
Degarwi
(Jorge E. Vargas)
Secretary of the Interior: Aurelio Espachin (Benigno:S. Aquime)
Secretary of Finance: Antonio de la Calaba (Antonio de las Ala
Secretary of Justice: Jose T. Larreen
(Josó P. Laurel)
Secretary or Commerce: Rafael R. Avlas
(Rafael Aluman)
Secretary of Education and Public Health: lara L. Moste
(Claro Resto)
002/1-2742
Secretary of Public Works: Talegu1
(Quintin Paredes)
Head of the Supreme Court: T. Muro
(José Yulo)
Head of the Accounting Dept: Teafilo Crisol
General Seoretary
(7)
(Serafin Marabut)
NOTE: The names in parenthesis were written in penoil on the
original report by Mr. Richards of PI.
894.002
35
CS/
FE:Sohm1dt:MBW
H
11-2742

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
COMMUNICATIONS
TELEGRAM
STATE
AND RECORDS
FBM-144
Bern
This te lEgram must be
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated July 20, 1944
fore being communicated
anOnE(CONFIDENTIAL)
REc'd 3 p.m.
DIVISION OF
WP
894.002/7-2044
4639, July 20, 2 p.m.
It is recalled by informed circles here in
connEcticn with appointment of Admiral Nomura s
JapanesE Naval Minister that Nomura whilε Naval
AttachE to the JapanesE Embassy at BErlin was regarded
as thE political rathEr than tEchnical rEprEsEntativE
of thE JapanEsE Navy and that hE playEd a most important
role in the nEgotiations lEading to formation of
Tripartite Pact and the subsEquEnt arrangements for
war liaison and coopEration bEtwEEn thE Axis and the
JapanesE Nevies. His app: ntment is thus interpreted
as placing an officer with dEtailed knowlEdgE of the
894.002/
GErman naval and military situation in chargE of the
JapanEsE Navy whether or not it impliEs a strengthening
of GErman - JapanEsE rElations at this juncture in the
war.
TENRITORIAL STUL
HARRISON
fles
AUG 1 15
HTM
AJ26 1944
71.fc
Clm

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
KOCR
file
flly 20,
JUL 2514
JUL 2 4 1944
8
NOTED
DIVISION OF
Mr. Secretary:
Japan: Resignation of Tojo Cabinet
894.002/
The Tojo Cabinet resigned en bloo on July 1
for some unexplained reason the resignation was kept
7-2044
secret, even from the Japanese people, until July 20.
The reasons given for the resignation were the failure
of the Cabinet to "aohieve its objeotive" in connection
894.002/7-2044
with the war and the "necessity of a strengthened per-
sonnel in time of urgency for the proseoution of the
war". Other reasons include the conflict over the sys-
tem inaugurated by Tojo of unification of the military
command and of the civil government, and the necessity
of "renovating the Cabinet struoture" and "invigorating
the publio". Radio Tokyo also asserted that the "Cabinet
was unable to keep up with the intensity of the burning
spirit of the people". The prinoipal reason, however,
undoubtedly lay in the Japanese custo m of resigning as a
manifestation of a sense of responsibility for some
major failure. In this case, the failure would be
signalized by the loss of Saipan.
Immediately after the resignation, the Emperor
consulted wi th Marquis Kido, the Lord Keeper of the
Privy Seal, who in turn consulted with the living ex-
Premiers of Japan. As a result of these conferences,
the Emperor on July 20 called 1n AdmiralM Tonai (retired),
a former Premier, and General'Koiso (retired), present
Governor General of Korea, and instructed them to col-
laborate with each other in the formation of a new Cabinet.
Which of the two would become Premier, if they suoceed
in forming a Cabinet, would depend upon several factors,
including their respective ranks in their services,
JUL 85 1944
their political affiliations, and their court rank.
It is likely, however, that Yonai would become the
Premier because he formerly held that post.
Yonai is generally considered to be a "moderate"
and to be friendly to the United States. It should be
remembered, however, that he is a Japanese and that he
will find it necessary to work with the group now in
control of Japan, namely, the military. Koiso has been
CS/D
assooiated with the jingoistic Japanese Army element
composing the Kwantung Army. He was Chief of Staff of
that

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
that Army in 1932-34 and had muoh to do with the founda-
tion or "Manohukuo".
A ohange of Cabinet in Japan does not necessarily
mean a shift in the over-all polioy of the government.
In all of the official announoements of the resignation
of the Tojo Cabinet the point is emphasized that the
change in Cabinets is being made for the purpose of
better prosecuting the war. In this conneotion it may
be pointed out that Tojo was only one of a large group
of Army men advocating the policies which Japan has
recently followed and that the fall of his Cabinet cer-
tainly does not mean the downfall of the group or the
relinquishment of its policies. The most that can be
said at the present time is that the downfall of the
Cabinet constituted a clear admission of military failure
which oannot hu t weaken the morale of the Japanese people
and their confidence in the military.
It is doubtful if the composition of the new Cabinet
will be known before the morning of July 2l, Washington
time.
JA:Diokover:AIM

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DCA
DIVISION OF
RN AFFAIRS
file
,1944
8
KV
JUL 2. 1
NOTED
Japan: New Ca
cabinet which is undoubtedly fuliy as determined as was
the Tojo Cabinet to carry on the war. We are preparing
a detailed analysis of the new cabinet which we hope to
send forward to you when we shall have received more
F.W
detailed information than is now available. A few pre-
liminary observations are offered, however, as of pos-
894.007
894.002/7-2044
sible interest.
7-2044
The new Premier is General Kuniaki Koiso, Governor
General or Korea and strong Kwantung Army man, who,
together with former Premier Admiral Yonai, was instruoted
to form a new cabinet. Yonai, who is the new Navy Minister,
is reported in some broadoasts to be also Deputy Premier.
A notable feature of the new cabinet is the abandon-
ment of the tendency toward one-man rule attempted by
former Premier Tojo -- with one exception, each port-
folio is held by a separate individual.
The new cabinet follows the recent poliey of the
Tojo cabinet of calling into the Government finanoial
economic and old-line political paders. A new element
represented in Koiso's cabinet  the press. Taketora
Ogata, Direotor and Editor in Chief of one of Japan's
leading newspapers, is Minister without Portfolio and con-
ourrently President of the Board of Information. This is
JUL
presumably a further effort to get completely unified
THED
popular support for the war effort.
In the field of foreign affairs, Mamoru Shigemitsu
remains as Foreign Minister and concurrently becomes Minist
of Greater East Asia Affairs. This development may foreshadow
the re-emergence of the Foreign Ministry whioh had been stripped
of most of its funotions in the Far Eastern field when the
GEA Ministry was established in 1942.
On the whole, the new Cabinet appears to be about as strong ?
as any which could have been assembled. It has a broader base
CS/D
of experienced leaders in various walks ef 
than did the
Tojo Cabinet,

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
OF STATE
REOEIVED
FOR THE PRESS
JULY 20, 1944
No. 315
DIVISION 
STATEMENT BY THE HONOHABLE JOSEPH C. GREW,
CORDS
DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF FAR EASTERN AFFAÍRS,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
17-2044
The resignation of the Tojo Cabinet in Japan seems
894.002/
894.002/7-2044
to me to imply three things: First, it is the clearest
possible admission of unprecedented defeats sustained by
the Japanese armed forces; second, it follows the usual
Japanese pattern of the acceptance of personal responsi-
bility for failures; third, it implies the necessity of
bolstering a weakening morale on the part of the Japanese
people by giving them something in the nature of a new
government, although we do not know whether Tojo will re-
appear in it or not.
In this connection I would express a word of caution.
In all probability, the change of government in Japan will
entail no fundamental change of policy in fighting the war
to the bitter end, for the old do-or-die fanatical spirit
is deeply engrained in the Japanese race. It is also
important to bear in mind that Tojo is only one of a group
and is not a personal dictator in the European sense. The
dictatorship is exercised by a group which is still in
power. It would be short-sighted and dangerous to the full
prosecution of our own war effort to allow this change to
lull us into any wishful thinking or false optimism.
CS
口

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of the Tojo Cabinet in Japan.
FMS
894.002/7-2244
For the original paper from which reference is taken
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
DatedJuly 22. 1944
Ceylon
To
File No. 894.00/7-2244
PS/EG
U. 8. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICK 1-1540

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
DIXISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 24, 1944
S
Mr. Secretary:
The essential points regard-
ing the fall of the Tojo Cabinet
and the formation and character of
the Koiso Cabinet were covered in
our memoranda to you of July 20
and July 22. You may nevertheless
wish to read the underlying memo-
randum, which covers the subjects
in somewhat more comprehensive form.
The underlying memorandum sascom-
panied by a list giving asbrief
sketch of each member D th out
going and incoming Cabanets
R
C
pry
AUG1
S
JA:dohansen:AIM

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ORRISIATE
OF FAR-EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 24, 1944
CHANGE IN GOVERNMENT
For some time there has been evidence that the Tojo
Cabinet's position was weakening. In February of this
year Tojo had to resort to important personnel changes
when invasion of the Marshalls was followed by a heavy
task force attack on Truk: on February 21 he took the
unprecedented step of assuming conourrently with the
post of War Minister the position of Chief of the Army
General Staff and of giving to his Navy Minister
(Admiral Shigetaro Shimada) the concurrent post of
Chief of the Navy General Staff on the plea of coordi-
894.002/7-2444
nating military and political leadership; two days
before he had dismissed three bureaucratio Cabinet mem-
bers in favor of men more likely to appeal to business,
financial and old-line political elements.
Against this background, the Japanese suffered
further military reverses in the central and southwest
Pacific, and air-raids on the Japanese homeland.
Although little specific information is available,
1t seems reasonably clear that Tcjo made strong efforts
894.002/
to remain in office. On July 17, Tojo surrendered the
post of Chief of the Army General Staff to General
Yoshijiro Umezu, Commander in Chief of the Kwantung
7-2444
Army. Admiral Shimada was relieved as Navy Minister in
favor .of Admiral Naokuni Nomura, Commander in Chief of
Kure Naval Base, but was permitted to retain his post
as Chief of the Navy General Staff. Not until these
changes had been announced did the Japanese Government
reveal the fall of Saipan.
Notwithstanding the moves outlined above, Tojo and
his Cabinet resigned en bloc on July 18. The resigna-
tion was not announced until July 20. The reasons given
for the resignation were the failure of the Cabinet to
"achieve its objective" in connection with the war and
the "necessity of a strengthened personnel in time of
urgency for the prosecution of the war". Other reasons
include the confliot over the system inaugurated by Toj
of unification of the military command and of the oivil
government, and the necessity of "renovating the Cabine
structure" and "invigorating the publio". Radio Tokyo
also asserted that the "Cabinet was unable to keep up
with the intensity of the burning spirit of the people"
The prinoipal reason, however, undoubtedly lay in the
Japanese

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Japanese oustom of resigning as a manifestation of a
sense of responsibility for some major failure. In this
case, the failure was signalized by the lss of Saipan.
Immediately after the resignation, the Emperor con-
sulted with Marquis Kido, the Lord Keeper of the Privy
Seal, who in turn consulted with the living ex-Premiers
of Japan. As a result of these conferences, the Emperor
on July 20 called in Admiral Yonai (retired), a former
Premier, and General Koiso (retired), Governor General
of Korea and strong Kwantung Army man, and instructed
them to collaborate with each other in the formation of
a new Cabinet. The membership of the new Cabinet, of
which General Koiso is Premier, was announced July 22
and investiture thereof took place the same day.
Before proceeding to a brief general di soussion of
the new Cabinet, the following specifio comments may be
of interest:
(1) The new Premier is not attempting the one-man
rule undertaken by Premier Tojo -- his only post is that
of Premier.
(2) A notable addition to the elements of the popula-
tion represented at Cabinet rank in the government is the
press. "Taketora Ogate, one of Japan's leading newspaper-
men, is Minister without Portfolio and conourrently Presi-
dent of the Board of Information. His inclusion in the
Cabinet should insure active press support of the government.
(3) Mamoru Shigemitsu remains as Foreign Minister and
concurrently becomes Minister of Greater East Asia Affairs.
This development may foreshadow the re-emergence of the
Foreign Ministry, which had been stripped of most of its
functions in the Far Eastern field when the GEA Ministry
was established in 1942. In fact, Shigemitsu has stated
in a speeoh that he was given both portfolios "in order to
carry out a unified administration of foreign polioy", and
a large proportion of the comment from Tokyo on the new
Cabinet has been devoted to praise of Shigemitsu and to
emphasizing the advantage in the execution of Japan's
foreign policy of the assignment of the two portfolios
to him.
(4) Appointment of General Sugiyama as War Minister
seems of particular interest because he was ousted by
Tojo in February as Chief of the Army General Staff when
Tojo assumed that post.
(5) Press

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
(5) Press and radio comment from Tokyo on the new
Cabinet indicates that it has been favorably received
by the Japanese public as a strong vehicle for bringing
about full cooperation among the armed forces, the govern-
ment and the people in the prosecution of the war.
All indications lead to the belief that the new
Koiso Cabinet was formed not to sue for peace but rather
to invigorate the Japanese war effort and to formulate
military plans which the Japanese hope will be more suo-
cessful than those of the Tojo Cabinet. Koiso has much
the same Kwantung Army background as has Tojo and is
believed to be fully as militaristic, while he is reported
to be a better administrator. The composition of the new
Cabinet (as is shown by the attached list giving a brief
sketoh of eaoh member of the outgoing and incoming Cabinets)
indioates that, although the new Cabinet has a somewhat
broader representation of experienced leaders from various
walks of life than did its predecessor, there has been
no change in the general characteristics of the personnel
which would point to a major change in Japanese polioy.
The retention of Shigemitsu (a career diplomat) in the new
Cabinet and the inclusion of Admiral Yonai (formerly con-
sidered a "moderate") are interpreted by some (e.g., the
Washington Post) as indicating preparations to negotiate
for peace when conditions are suitable. Although this
possibility cannot be entirely excluded from the long-
term picture, the members of the Cabinet seem to have been
selected basically because they were considered able to
proseoute the war with maximum effeotiveness.
SR
JA:Johghsen/Dickover:AIM

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
SKETCHES OF MEMBERS OF
TOJO AND KOISO CABINETS
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
PREMTER
PREMIER
Hideki TOJO, General.
Kuniaki KOISO, General.
Born 1884. Kwangtung Army man. Former
Born in I880. Kwangtung Army man. Minister
Chief of Staff of that Army. War Minister
of Overseas Affairs in the Hiranuma Cabinet
in Konoe Cabinet of 1940-41. Premier from
of 1939, and in the Yonai Cabinet of 1940.
October 16, 1941. Held concurrently at
Since 1942 Governor General of Korea.
various times portfolios of: War, Home
Closely associated with Army group favoring
Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Commerce and
continental expansion; one of the then young
Industry, Munitions and post of Chief
officers responsible for the Manchurian
of Army General Staff. Showed openly
Incident of i931. Noted for planning
aggressive militaristic leanings long
capacity and political ability. On retired
before the war. As Premier broke pre-
list since 1938.
cedents freely, i.e., made trips through-
out Far Bast; held most of key portfolios
concurrently; assumed post of Chief of
Army General Staff concurrently with War
Ministership.
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND COMMERCE
MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE AND COMMERCE
Shinya UCHIDA.
Toshio SHIMADA.
Businessman and politician (member of
Born in 1877. Politician (a leader of the
former Seiyukai Party). Minister of
former Seiyukai Party), lawyer, author and
Railways in the Okada Cabinet of 1935-36.
businessman. Minister of Agriculture and
Governor of Miyagi Prefecture and concur-
Forestry in Hirota Cabinet in 1936-37 and
in Yonai Cabinet in 1940. Member of House
rently President of one of the nine new
Local Administrative Deliberative Councils
of Representatives. Associated in pro-
from July 1, 1943 until appointed Minister
motion of GEA affairs. Prominent in IRAPS.
Prior to the war considered friendly to
of Agriculture and Commerce in the Tojo
Cabinet in February 1944.
the United States and other foreign
nations.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
MINISTER OF EDUCATION
Nagakage OKABE, Viscount.
Harushige NINOMIYA, Lt. Gen.
Born in 1884. .ember of House of Peers.
Born in 1879. Military career includes
Served in Washington during early Foreign
service as Military Attaché in London.
Office Career. Prominent in cultural
Kwantung Army man. Influential in develop-
societies.
ment and colonization program for Manchuria.
Held in high regard in Japanese military
circles.
MINISTER OF FINANCE
Sotaro ISHIWATA (ISHIWATARI)
 Sotaro ISHIWATA (ISHIWATARI)
Same post in Koiso Cabinet.
Born 1891. Finance Ministry bureaucrat.
Minister of Finance in the Hiranuma Cabi-
net of 1939. Later Chief Economic Advisor
to Nanking. Was appointed Minister of
Finance in the Tojo Cabinet in February 1944.
Identified with "Hiranuma Group" which
tried "to keep the pot from bolling over."

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
MINISTER OF GREATER EAST ASIA AFFAIRS
Minister of Foreign Affairs:
Mamoru SHIGEMITSU.
Mamoru SHIGEMITSU.
Retained as Foreign Minister in Koiso
Born 1887. Career diplomat who has served
Cabinet.
in the United States and whose other posts
include ambassadorships to London and
Moscow and the Nanking régime. An expert
on China. Known as a clever, careful
Minister of Greater East Asia Affairs:
diplomat. He has long-standing friendships
in military circles. Prior to the war,
Kuzuo AOKI.
was not generally considered to be mili-
taristic but under Tojo has been prominent
Born in 1889. Finance Ministry bureau-
in promoting GEA solidarity. Appointed Foreign
Minister under Tojo in April, 1943.
crat. Has held important financial
and economic posts with the "Manchukuo"
The GEA Ministry which he now heads con-
and Nanking regimes. Appointed head of
currently was formed in November 1942
GEA Ministry when it was established in
and largely supplanted the Foreign
November 1942. Aoki's war-time activities
Ministry in handling relations with
have included tours of inspection on the
Asiatic areas.
continent and throughout oocupied terri-
tories to the south.
MINISTER OF HOME AFFAIRS
K1saburo ANDO.
Shigeo ODATE.
Born 1879. Served as Military Attaché
Born 1892. Home Ministry bureauorat. Has
served in Manchuria and North China. Vice
in London. Very active in the IRAA of
Minister of Home Affairs in 1939. Became
whioh he has been Vice President. Was
"manor" of Singapore in 1942. On July 1,
appointed Minister without Portfolio in
1943 became Governor of Tokyo Metropolitan
June 1942. Was made Home Minister in
April 1943. Has had considerable experi-
Prefecture and conourrently President of
one of the Local Administrative Deliberative
ence in China.
Councils.

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
MINISTER OF JUSTICE
Michiyo IWAMURA.
Hiromasa MATSUZAKA.
Born in 1883. Department of Justice
Born in 1884. Career as procurator with
bureaucrat. Had served as Vice Minister
Justice Ministry; appointed Procurator
of Justice before he was appointed
General in 1941.
Minister of Justice in the Tojo Cabinet.
MINISTER OF MUNITIONS
Hideki TOJO, General.
Ginjiro FUJIWARA.
(See PREMIER)
Born in 1869. Industrialist and member of
House of Peers. Minister of Commerce and
Industry in Yonai Cabinet in 1940. Cabinet
Advisor to Tojo Government in 1942; raised
to Minister without Portfolio in November
1943; also served as Government inspector
of war production.
MINISTER OF NAVY
Shigetaro SHIMADA, Admiral.
Mitsumasa YONAI, Admiral.
Born in 1883. Experience as line officer
Born in 1880. Reputed one of the best ship
includes submarine service. Has been Com-
handlers end tacticians in Japanese Navy.
mander in Chief of the China Fleet. Ap-
Expert on China and Russian affairs. Navy
pointed Minister of Navy when the Tojo
Minister in Hayashi, Konoe and Hiranuma
Cabinet was formed and served concurrently
Cabinets from 1937 to 1939. Premier from
as Chief of the Navy General Staff since
January to July 1940. Before war classified
bruary 1944. Resigned as Navy Minister
among the moderates.
17. Regarded as a quiet and effective
and good strategist and has a knowl-
International policies.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
(Minister of Navy, cont'd)
Naokuni NOMURA, Admiral.
As Naval Attaché in Berlin played promi-
nent part in formation of Tripartite
Pact. Became Supreme War Councilor and
Commander in Chief of Kure Naval Base
in 1943. Named Navy Minister July 17,
1944.
MINISTER OF TRANSPORTATION AND
COMMUNICATIONS
Keita GOTO.
Yonezo MAEDA.
Born in 1882. Identified with private
Born in 1882. General manager of former
railways. In February 1944 was appointed
Seiyukai Party. Member of House of Repre-
Minister of Transportation and Communi-
sentatives. Minister of Commerce and
Industry in Inukai Cabinet, 1931-32. Minis-
cations.
ter of Rai lways in Hirota Cabinet 1936-37,
and in Hiranuma Cabinet in 1939. A leader
in the IRAA.
MINISTER OF WAR
Hideki TOJO.
Gen SUGIYAMA, General.
(See REMIER)
Born in'1888. Unusually broad military
career. War Minister in the Hayashi and
Konoe Cabinets in 1937-38. In 0otober 1940
became Chief of the Army General Staff.
Replaced by General Tojo as Chief of the
Army General Staff following the attack on
Truk in February 1944. However, retained
positions as member of the Board of Field
Marshals and Fleet Admirals and of Supreme War
Council. Familiar with Manchuria and Mongolia
as well as China. Highly regarded by General
Koisonthe new,fremier, who was at one time

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
MINISTER OF WELFARE
Chikahiko KOIZUMI, Lt. Gen.
Hisatada HIROSE.
Born in 1884. Army medical man. Served
Born in 1889. A bureaucrat in Hom and
as Welfare Minister in the last Konoe
Welfare Ministries and became Minister
Cabinet as well as in the Tojo Cabinet.
of Welfare in the Hiranuma Government in
1938. A lawyer and industrialist, and
member of the House of Peers.
MINISTERS WITHOUT PORTTOLIO
Ginjiro FUJIWARA.
Hideo KODAMA, Viscount.
Became Minister of Munitions in Koiso
Born in 1876. Has had wide governmental
Cabinet.
experience including: high posts in the
Government-General of Korea; Governor of
Fumio Goto.
Kwantung Leased Territory; Minister of
Born in 1884. A bureaucrat of the Home
Overseas Affairs in Hayashi Cali net (1934);
Affairs Ministry who has specialized in
Minister of Communications in the Hayashi
police activities. Member of the House of
Cabinet (1937) Minister of Home Affairs in
Peers. In 1932 was Minister of Agriculture
Yonai Cabinet (1940); advisor to Commander
and Forestry and 1934 to 1936 served as
in Chief of the Japanese forces in the
Home Minister in the Okada Cabinet. In
Netherlands East Indies at Batavia (1942).
May 1943 was appointed Minister without
President of Dai Nippon Aviation Company.
Portfolio. Has been one of principal
Popular in military circles. His father
figures in the IRAA.
was the well-known General Kodama of the
Russo-Japanese War.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
TOJO CABINET
KOISO CABINET
MINISTERS WITHOUT PORTFOLIO (cont'd)
Shinsuke Kishi.
Chuji Machida.
Born in 1896. Ministry of Commerce and
Born in 1863. President of former Minseito
Industry bureaucrat. Served in "Manohukuo"
party. Banker and business man. Member
from 1936 to 1939. Minister of Commerce
of House of Representatives. Minister of
and Industry in the Tojo Cabinet until
Commerce and Industry in Okada Cabinet,
October 1943; on November 1, 1943 became
1934-36. Member of Cabinet Advisory Coun-
Minister without Portfolio and concurrently cil. Advisor of IRAPS.
Vice Minister of Munitions.
Tadao OASA.
Taketora OGATA.
Born in 1889. A lawyer and politician
Age 57. Journalist -- Rose to Managing
who has served in the House of Repre-
Director and Editor in Chief and later
sentatives. Police experience with the
Vice President of the Osaka and Tokyo
Home Ministry. Served as secretary to
Asahi Shimbun; Director of Domei News
Cabinet Ministers. In 1943, was
Agency. Affiliated with IRAA.
appointed Minister without Portfolio.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
COMMUNICATIOI
TELEGRAM
STATE
AND RECORDS
MPR
MAE-854
Moscow
This telegram must bε
paraphrased before being
Dated July 22, 1944
communicated to anyone
Rec'd 3:29 p.m.,
other than a Government
agency. (RES. RICTED)
Office of
Secretary of tate,
FAD EASTERN AFFAIRS
1544
Washington.
RECTOP
Dspartmerd ot State
2713, July 25, 3 p.m.
-2544
The following despatch, datelined Tokyo, July 21,
appeared in press for July 22.
"According to VomEi today at 3:30 psm. a repre-
sentativE of the staff for formation of a'cabinEt,
LiEutenant GEneral Saito, stated that formation of a
cabinet is proceeding under the leadership of General
Koiso and Admiral Yonai. HAnd Y arE cooperating with
onE another in Effecting this aim"
HARRIMAN
EEC:WMB
AUG10 1944
FILED
INFOR

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION OF
OF
COMMUNICATIONS
TELEGRAM
STATE
AND RECORDS
18-511
PLAIN
Office of
t07
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Lfoscow
291944
Dated July 25, 1944
RECLar
Secretary of StatE,
1944
Washington
State
2745, twenty-fifth
Following is translation of despatch datelined
894.002/7-2544
Tokyo July twenty-fourth published in press for July
twenty-fifth: "The JapanesE War Ministry has report-
Ed that General Tojo who has rEsignec as Prime Min-
ister has been Entered in thE ReservE. Admiral Yonai
anpointed Naval Minister, has been placed on active
duty for sErvicr in this position. The Ministry
further reported the appointment of the Director of
the DEpartment of Public Affairs under thE inspeo
orate of military instruction Licutenant General Kode
as Chief Inspector of military Instruction replaes
23
ing Field Marshall Sugiyama, who has accepted the
portfolio of War Minister in t he new cabintt."
HARRIMAN
RNK

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.95)
DEPARTMENT
INCOMING
DIVISION
OF
COMMUNICATION
TELEGRAM
STATE
AND RECORDS
LC - 20
MOSOOW
This telegram must be
paraphrased before being
Dated August 12, 1944
communicated to anyone
othor than a Government
Reo'd 12:35 p.m.
agoncy. (RESTRICTED)
894.002/8-1244
Office of
Socretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington.
AUG 1 6 1944
DEPUTY DIRECTOR
Department of State
2958, Lugust 12, 10 a.m.
Following is translation of despatch datelined
Tokyo, iugust 10, published in press for Lugust 11.
Lccording to Domoi Admiral Baron Kantaro Sudzufi,
Vice President of Privy Council replacing Yosimitsi
YHara who died Lugust 7. Member of Privy Council Toru
244
Shi Ilidsu replaces 4dmiral Sudzuki as Vice Prosident
of Council.
HARRIMAN
HTM
DIVISION ION
TEHRITURIAL STUVIES
11944
27C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Liles.
A08251
AUGRP 1944
etn

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
894.002
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Resignation of the Minister of Munitions in the
Japanese Government.
894.002/12-2044
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
memo
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
State Dept
Japanese Affairs
From From Hullgren
CS/MAH
Deo. 20, 1944
Dated
To
740.0011 P.W./12-2044
File No.
1-1840
