894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., January 30, 1940 - February 17, 1941 (File 1247), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.00-1247-1   Pages: 560   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-23/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20January%2030%2C%201940%20-%20February%2017%2C%201941%201247-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
Division of
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FAR EASTRRS
A
AMERICAN-EMBAGSY
No. 4457
Tokyo, January 30. 1
DEGAL ADYISER
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DUING THE
MONTH OF DEC EMBER 1939.
Copy in FE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.009R
52
The Honorable
S
ONI
MID
The Seoretary of State,
C
NOWWCS
ANGA
Washingt on OFCE OF THE AMSE:
NERNATIONG
894.00
() NAR 3 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
With reference to the Department's instruction
A SECRETARY
no. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
P
MAR271940
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
 STATE
R
Japan for the month of December 1939.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
American Ambassador
800
JE:
FILED
Enchbsure:
Report no. 159
In qufntuplicate to the Department.
Copies to Embassies at Peiping, Chungking, Moscow.
Copies to Consulates General at Shanghai, Mukden, Harbin,
Seoul and Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates at Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki,
Nagoya, Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.
F/N

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
No. 159
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF DEC EMBER 1939.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX A ND SUMMA RY
I.
RELATIONS VITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Abassador' Conversations with the Foreign
Minister -- Japanese Government's Intention
to Roopen the Yungtzo River as fur as Nan-
king -- Question of Negctiation of Now Con-
mercial Treaty or of a Modus Vivendi
1,2,3,4,
5,6,7
(b) Foreign Office Roplies to Embassy's Repre-
sontations Concerning Damage to Anerican
Property in China and the Settloment of
Cleins
8,9
(c) Replies of the Foreign Office to Representa-
tions Mude by tho Embossy
9,10,11
(a) Ropresontations Made by the Embassy in
December
11,12
(e) General Relations
12,13,
14,15
II. RELATIOUS 'ITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(c) Grect Britain
15
1. Tientsin Question
15,16
2. Opening of the Yangtze River
16,17
3. Representotions Made by the British
Embassy during the Nonth
17
(b) China
17
1. Military Opor tions
17,18,19
2. Goneral Rel tions
19
(c) Yen Bloc
19,20,21
(d) Frence
21,22
(e) Russia
22
1. Fisheries Agrooment
22,23
2. Bordor Duuarcation Conference and
Announcoment of Esteblishment of
Commission to Donarcato Entire Sov-
iot and Outer Mongolian Borders
23
3. Goneral Relations
23,24
(f) Hungary
24
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
(a) Pusition of the Abe Cabinet
25,26
(b) Govornment Ordinances
26,27

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
(c) Official Price Control
27,28
(a) Arny
28,29
IV.
COURSE OF LGISLATION
29
V.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
29
National Buuget for Year 1940-41
30-31
VI.
GENERAL ECONOIIC AND FIFAUCIAL CONDITIONS
31,
The Rice Situr ticn
33,34,35
Genoral Economic Situation for 1939
35,36
Foreign Trede
36,37,38
VII. ACTIVITITS OF AI ERICAN COTRICAL I TERESTS
38
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COTERCIAL INTTRESTS
38
IX.
LABOR
38
X.
MISCELLANEOUS
38

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS ITH THE UNITED ST.PES.
(a)
Ambassador's Conversations with the Foreign
ninister
-- Japanese Government's Tntention
to Recpen tie Yangtze River as
far as Nanking
Question
of Negotiation of
New Commercial
.94
Treaty or of a Modus Vivendi.
In continuing their discussions begun in November
(Political Report for November), the American Ambassedor
held on Decerber 4 at the Foreign Office a further con-
versation on Americen-Jepanese relations with the For-
eign Minister at the latter's request. This conversa-
tion, it was later explained to the Embassy, was design-
ed to clarify the Japanese position, specially as regards
negative measures being taken by the Japanese Government
for the improvement of American-Japanese relations, in
the light of the Anbassador's suggestion made in his in-
terview with the Foreign :'inister on November 4 regard-
ing the importance of Japan's presenting evidence that
an end would be put to the acts of the Japanese in China
committed against Americans and American rights and in-
terests. Admiral Nomura first categorically stated in
this conversation that the impression, which he realized
persists in the United States that the ects on the part
of the Japanese were doliberate and that Japan, moreovor,
intended to expel American interests from China, was con-
trary to fact. He then reiterated the assurance that the
incidents which had occurred werc accidontal and he added
that stringent orders had been issued and full arrange-
ments made for the protection and respect of American prop-
erty and citizens in China, He averred, furthermore, that
those limitations which have been imposed on commeroial
activities in China resulted from military operations but
were

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
were exceptional and temporary and would be removed when
peace comes. He continued by saying thet he felt that,
responively to the desire of the American Government to
improve relations, the Japanese Govcrnment would be able
to adopt certain positive measures in that connection
which it then had under study. He further stated that
he hoped that through the efforts of the American Em-
bassy and the Foreign Office it would be possible to
deal with and bring to a quick solution the pending ques-
tions*
On December 6 the Director of the A..erican Bureau of
the Foreign Office informed the Counselor of the Embassy
of an outline of the views of the Japanese Government
with regard to an approach towards the adjustment of
cases and problems involving American rights and inter-
ests in China. The position of the Japanese Government
was given as one of considering that theso could be divi-
ded into throe categories:
1. Cases involving direct injury by Japanese to
Anerican lives and proporty.
2. Politico-cconomic casos or those which could be
described as involving restriction or prevention of the
exercise of A:.erican rights, and
3. Basic principles involving conflicts of policy
and objociives, such as the territorial and administra-
tive integrity of Cnina.
He seid that the ection hich Japan
*Embassy's telegram no. 656, December 4, 10 p.m.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
Japan might take to improve tho situation creatod by
these casos and probl ms could be divided into two
kinds: nogativo and positive. Tho negative measures,
he felt, would comprisc tho cessation of acts directly
injurious to American lives and property and compensa-
tion for damago alrcady done, ane positive measures
would comprisc tho inprovement of conditions affocting
the exercisc of Americen rights. Progress hed already
been made, he dcclarod, on those problems contained in
catogory "1" -- in the payment of sone claims for dam-
ages and in the investigations being held as regards
other clains. He felt as regards "2" cctegory of cases
that, although thcy prosented serious difficulties, those
difficulties were not nocessarily insuperable and should
in most instances be adjusted in a "constructivo spirit".
As regards thoso problons in category "3" he felt that
they should be approachod in a purely cxploratory manner
with a view to adjustnont at some time when peace in China
is definitely in sight.*
Or Doccmber 18, Ir. Grew was called to the Foreign
Office and informed by the Forcign 'inistor that the
Japanese Governnont intonded to open the Yangtzo River
to gencral navigation, "subject to certain restrictions
based on militery neccssity", es fer as Nanking, "in
about two months" and that the opening of the Poarl River
was also being considcred along theso linos. At tho same
time
*Embassy's telogram no. 666, Docember 7, 2 p.m.
Dospatch no. 4323, Decombor 22, 1939.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
time Admiral Nonura proposed that a modus vivendi be
negotiated without dolay to carry on Japanose-Ancrican
comporrial relations oftor tho oxpiration on January
26, 1940 or tho presont Troety of Conmorco cnd Naviga-
tion. (Referenco: soction below on Rolations with
Groat Britain).
These announcoments wore sot forth as the saliont
features of the uro remoric rend and handed to Mr. Grew
by Adniral Nomure on the occasion: a statonent prosent-
ing an account of steps takon or to be teken on the ini-
tiativo of tho Japanose Govornnont to the end of "op ning
the way for the improvonent of Japanose-Aerican rela-
tions." It was thorein stated that the Japenose Govern-
ment hed dotermined upon and would continue to follow a
policy for the colution of the ponding problens and ques-
tions botweon tho two countries. Progress, basod on this
policy, it was hold, had beon made as regards tho cossa-
tion of injuries to Acrican citizens end property in
that only a few of such cusos hnd occurred recently and
in thoso cnses "appropriatc and just measures vould bo
taken to dorl vitr thon as soon as the circumstancos have
beon fully oxamined". Japcn wes not roquirod to essune
responsibility to pay conpensation for danege to Amoricon
proporty incurred in the courso of militory oporntions but
nevortheloss would make just and approprinte solrtium pay-
ments, tho amounts of which would be arrived at upon full
considoration of tho cases. Sono of the so-called poli-
tico-econonic problens could shortly be sottled, while
others

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
others, such as those in respoct to customs, curroncy,
salt administretion anu other goneral natters would
have to be studiod at somo longth, but in their adjust-
mont, full considoration would be given to the interests
of Third Powers.
The question of the opening of the Yengtze and Pearl
Rivers was then taken up.
In conclusion it wes steted thet the Japanese Gov-
ernment, heving takon those steps for the inprovenent in
American-Japaneso reletions, looked to the United States
Government to reciprocate in the same spirit and to this
end there was need of entering into negotistions as soon
as possible to concludo a now conmercial arrangenont.*
In the conversation that followed the presontetion
of this statomont Ir. Grow pointed out that a difference
botwoon tho Unitod Statos and Japan on fundamental prin-
ciples did not apperontly fall within the progren put
forwerd by tho Japanosc Govornment. Ho also conveyed to
Admiral Nomura tho reaction of the United Stetos Govern-
nent to tho Minister's statoment made on Docombor 4, r.
Grew strossing the incroasingly monopolistic control over
the cconomic lifo of China to be found in the officirl
North China Dovolopnent Company end the Contral China
Promotion Compeny, cnd the discriminatory character of
the now curroncics being set up in China in fevor of Jepan.
He asked whethor thoy wore of a permanent or temporary na-
ture. He made it clear thet tho A::ericen Government folt
that
Embassy's telegran no. 686, December 18, 6 p.n.
mbassy's tologran no. 687, December 18, 10 p.n.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
that the efforts thus far nede by the Jaunese Govern-
mont toward ameliorating the damege boing done to Aneri-
can interests had little nmore then "touched tho fringo
of the problom".*
The I'inister's replics to thcse observations were
to the effect thet, with regord to the nonopolios and
tho "two companics", it was nocossary to sct up "econo-
mic blocs botwoon J  en, China and Manchukuo" to over-
conme difficultios in qusstions of nrtional defonso but
that there wos no intontion theroby to oxclude other
countries ara that Jepen was "quite ready to welcone
foreign capital". Vith regard to quostions of currency,
he stated that Jepen "hed to finance the Army", but that
discriminetions would be nodified when the fighting
stopped and e new C.inose Goverrment was set up.**
O1 Docembor 22, Mr. Gron co..veyed to the Foroiu
Minister, in complionce with the Department's instruc-
tions, throe stctonents of the United States Government
in reply to the Japanese Government's proposels. The
first was to the effect that the Government of the United
States suggosted thnt the question of concluding e modus
vivondi remain "opon for the time being" nd that dis-
cussions be continued in Tokyo in regerd to the considera-
tions borring upon the question of concluding a conmercial
trecty or agroemont. The second was to the effcct thet
the
*Dopertmont's no. 392, December 7, 8 p.m.
**Embassy's telogran no. 688, December 18, 11 p.m.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
the ten per cont cd valoren discrininating duties on goods
entoring the United Steses in Joponese ships ond discrini-
nating tonnege cuties on Jonrnose ships vould not, for the
prosont, be collected upon the expiration of the trorty.
The thira statement wos  comprchonsive exposition of the
Americen Government's views as regords the quostion of the
negotietion of  comercial trenty or greemont.
In this l:tter cormunic-tion thero wus sot forth the
opinion of tho United States Governnent th:t it regards
non-discrininatory trectment as the found:tion principle
of its conmercirl policy nd consiuers the rule of equali-
ty of cormercinl rights and onportunity to bo the only
desireble basis for the concluding of connercicl treaties
or groements vith a country. The statoment added that,
so long as the agoncies end instrumontalitios of the Jap-
anose Government continue in frct to ronder inoperative
the prectice of equelity of treatment for Americen conmer-
cial interests in lerge orors of Chira, thore exists a
sericus obstoclc to tho conclusion of n now cormercinl
trenty or greonent with Japan.*
On Ducember 22 the Japanese Arbassador in Weshington
called t tho Deportment ond presented to tho Secretrry,
under instructions fron his Government,  dreft of . pro-
posod arrangenent cr n nodus vivendi.**
(b) Foreign
Embessy's tolegran no. 699, Decembor 22, 9 p.n.
Depertment's tolegrem no. 410, December 21, 7 p.m.
Depertmont's tologrem no. 402, December 18, 2 p.m.
**Department's telegran no. 412, Docomber 23, 1 p.m.
Dupertmont's telegran no. 415, Decenber 27, 7 p.m.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
(b)
Foroign Office Roplies to Ebassy's Rep-
resentations Concerning Danoge to Ancri-
con Property in Chine ond the Settloment
of clnims.
It will be recelled thet th: Eibassy recsived dur-
ing November some fifty odd ronlies fron the Foreign of-
fice to certcin of its represont tions in reg rd to dam-
εges to Americon property in Chine, principally es  re-
sult of bombings by Jepanese irplonos. Acknowledgnent
was mede of the receipt of these ruplies on December 18
by the Embossy. In its note to this effoct, confornably
with the Departmont's instructions, there was pointed out
that in the najority of the cases the reports of the Jap-
eneso milit ry cutlioritios concerning thc incidents were
et direct varience with those from Americcn sources in
China. A resorvation vis clso nade as regards the in-
oquiteble cmounts th-t the Jap nese authoritios in China
hod thus fer offered in conpens tior for the demnges
clrimed.*
The Ambassalor, during the course of his converse-
tion with the Foreign Minister on December 18 and previcus-
ly theroto, the Counsclor of the Eibessy, in his conversa-
tion with the Dircctor of thc A.erican Burenu on Docenber
6, mede montion of tho fect thot the replies received from
the Forcign Office contcined in practically every instance
what anounted to n disclcimer of responsibility. The Am-
bassador, in his interview, also brought to the attention
of
* Embessy's telegran no. 688, December 17, 2 p.m.
Despatch no. 4346, Decomber 18, 1939.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
of tho Foroign Ministor the fact that, cccording to in-
formotion which hed boen reported to the Anerican Govern-
ment by the American Consul General at Shanghri,* the
solatium payments offered in the thirteen crses, which
the authorities t Shanghai had stated they were prepared
to settle, would not affor? c basis for expecting peyment
of equitable emounts in compensstion to the injured Aneri-
con claiments.**
Mr. Yoshizawa, in cn orel statement m de to Iir. Dooman
on Deccmber 19, and grin in c lotter to Mr. Doonan dated
December 23, informed the latter thet the offers made in
Shanghai by the Jepanosc authorities there wero not intend-
cd to be substantially final but were open to revision on
or
the roexamination of the evidonce elready given/in the
light of ny further evidence presented. Ho further de-
clcred thot tho Jrpenese Governnont was not attempting to
evade responsibility in its roplies to the Americen repre-
sentntions but thet it dosircd to set forth its readiness
to givo ronewed consider tion to the circumstances of the
various bonbing and other cases and to the cctual demage
done through those incidents.***
tions Melo by tho Embassy.
The
Shenghni's no. 1037, Noveriber 25, 10 ε.m.
**Dopartment's no. 390, Deccmber 8, 6 p.m.
Dospctch no. 4323, December 14, 1939.
Emhassy's telogren no. 688, Decembor 18, 11 p.m.
***Embassy's tolegram no. 691, December 19, 7 p.m.
Embassy's telegrun no. 706, December 26, 7 p.m.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-
The Embassy received during the month of December
responses fron tho For eign Office to its ropresent tions
in the following instonces:
1. In roply to tho Emb ssy's reprosentations of
Nevember 15, 1939, reger ins the egg tradc restrictions
in the Yongtzo velloy. This roply s to the offect
that negoti tions were taking pl ce at Shengh: i botween
the Jeponese ond tho American conmercial interests con-
corned with the matter and thet the Jepanese cuthorities
at Shanghci had guin boen instructed to exert thenselves
for a prorpt sottlenont of this cnse.*
2. In reply to tho Emb-ssy's represontcticns of
October 10, 1939, concerning the J ponese interference
in the School cf the Sistors of Providcnce of the Aneri-
con Catholic lissin, Kaifong, Honan.**
3. In reply to the Eibussy's represontations made
on Octsber 19, 1939,*** concerning the question of curron-
cy restrictions imposod by tho J ponese cuthorities at
Canton. It  is hold thurein thet tho restrictions in
question were imnoscd bec use of the necessity of restr in-
ing the speculative transrctions in currcncy by Chinese
indivilucls in th: conccssions:t Conton, thot the restrict-
ions were no longer necossery and hed been abolishod as
fron Novenber 1, but thet the Jepanese Army reserved the
right to re-inpose tho restrictions if such were gein
found to be necossery.****
4. In
* Embassy's t legren no. 671, December 8, 6 p.m.
Despatch no. 4325, Docember 15, 1939.
**Despntch no. 4332, December 16, 1939.
***Despatch no. 4199, Octobor 31, 1939.
****Despatoh no. 4353, December 19, 1939.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
-11-
4. In reply tc the Embassy's reprosentations made
on September 2, conceraing tho soizure by the Jpaneso
military authcritics of the Chinose IMaritime Customs at
Swatow. In substance, this rcply held that the Japanese
Government could not accopt the protest of the Arerican
Government in this case bec use, the Bistrict cf Swetow
being under occupation of the Japoneso military fcrces,
"it wes only naturel thot the Swatow Moritime Customs
should be offected by the exercis of cuthority of those
forces". It w: s added, however, thrt the occup tion of
the property had been effcctod vith tho understonding
of "both perties" nd thet the Japonese forces, moroover,
were naking preparctiens to nove therefrom.*
5. In roply to the Emb-ssy's represent tions made
on October 26, 1939,** in regord to tho reported inten-
ticn of the Jepanose-sp nsored rogime at Nanking to es-
sume c ntrol over the functions of tho Inspector Goneral
of the Chinesc Maritine Custons at Shanghai. This reply
stated that the Japenese Governnent had received no in-
formstion to that effect and, therefore, could not ox-
press its opinion cn such hypothetical question.***
(a)
Represent tions Made by the mbassy in
Deccrbr.
The Enbessy mede reprosontetions to the Foreign
Office in December in the fellowing instances:
1. Interference with the property of the American
Cathclic
* Embassy's dospntch no. 4380, December 29, 1939.
**Despctoh no. 4123, Novomber 6, 1939.
***Dospatch no. 4392, Janucry 9, 1940.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-
Catholic Mission, Sinsing, Honan.*
2. Interference with the enployees of the Netional
City Bank of New York t Peiping.**
3. Claim of tho Genoral Aerican Car Conpany against
the Peiping-Suiuen Rrilwoy.***
4. Universal Leof Tobacco Company.****
5. Continued difficultics of Anericons end anti-
Amcricon agitstion t Chonliu, Honan.*****
(c) Genercl Rel-tions.
The public renction to tho nnouncenent, prominent-
ly featured in cll tho Jop: nese papers, of the Govern-
mont': decision to open the Yongtze River was for the
most pert rcstrained. The positicn wes prouptly taken
thet the step ropresonted a sacrifice on the pert of
Japan and a concession to the United Stetes for which
concossion the A.oricon Governnent should reciprocate.
It was refcrred to as a "Christmas gift", in return for
which the Uitod Stntes Governnent should offer as a
"New Yoer's prusent" to renew the conmorcial treaty and,
by such act, sl ow its appreci tion to Japen for what
this country had done to inprovo relations. Further
comnents wero elso to the effect th-t the opening of the
river wes cimed at mcking it clorr to foreign powers that
they
* Embessy's tologran no. 652, Decomber 4, 5 p.n.
Despstch no. 4316, December 13, 1939.
**Embassy's tolegren no. 660, December 6, 1 p.m.
Despotch no. 4321, Decomber 13, 1939.
***Despctch no. 4374, December 26, 1939.
****Despctch no. 4217, Doccmber 2, 1939.
Despctoh no. 4381, D.cember 29, 1939.
*****Embcssy's telogram no. 654, December 4, 7 p.n.
Rmbessy's telogrcn no. 665, D~cember 6, 9 p.m.
Department's telegrem no. 395, Deue_ber 12, no.n.
Despatoh no. 4350, Decenber 18, 1939.
Dospatoh no. 4384, Decanber 28, 1939.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
they would not be driven out of China cnd that Japan
wished to void as fa. as possible friction with then.
In sone of the ncre radiccl sections of tho coun-
try, however, the nove was comented upon adversely to
the offect that it representel a subservient act by Japen
to the U.ited States. It wes wernei that, if the United
Stotes did not becone nere conciliatory towards Japan,
the Japenese public opinion would greatly condemn its
Government, while at the sene time anti-American feol-
ing would be arouscd to a very high pitch.* T. ere elso
ppeared in the press a not tion that the Japonese authori-
ties hnd intonded in any evont to oper un the Yongtze Riv-
er. C nfirratien of this viow npe red in a stetenent
made by th. Pronier on Deccnibor 28. In that s me state-
ment he doclered that the opening of the Yengtzo River
was not mnde on  bargaining basis for concessions fron
third countries.**
Following Mr. Grow's neeting with Adniral Nonure on
December 22, the spokesnan for the Foreign Offico issued
e statenent in which he seid thet, as a rosult of what Mr.
Grew had th t day informed the Foroign Minister, "a treaty-
less situntion will prob:bly not arise between Jepen and
the United Statcs?***
This news was sized upon with much
ovidity cnd high hopes vere held that tho situation as re-
gards Japon's tredo relaticns with the United Stetes was
now
* r:bessy's toiogran no. 690, Doccmber 19, 6 p.n.
Embrssy's tolegran no. 695, Dccenbor 20, 5 p.n.
**Enmbassy's tel egran no. 715, Decenber 29, 7 p.n.
***mmbassy's tolegrrn no. 700, Decomber 23, 1 p.n.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
-14-
now in hand. It bocemc known on Deceriber 28, however,
through enother statorient issue by the Foreign Office
that this infornation was a misstatenent of fact, and*
thereafter, cespito the publicntion of the announcement
of the United Statos Goverimont that no penalties were to
be inposed ageinst Japanese goods ana ships entering the
Unitec Stetes,  foeling of decided gloon and possimisn
concerning Jepanoso-Aroricen relations prevailed through-
out the country. On Docember 27 the spokosnan of the
Foroign Uffice declcred thet the concossions by tho United
States to Jepanose tredc were inadoquate. Ho was roported
further to have seid that while theso concossions might
climineto immedicto hrrmful effects of tho tcrninetion of
tho trenty, they were considered entirely too tentative,
placing Jrponese trdo vith the United Stetes on n sort
of hend-to-mouth basis nd lerving tho Unitod States hold-
ing the whip-hand over Jenen.
Jepcnese concorn over the prospocts of a treatyloss
situation, particularly es it related to the possibility
of the United States being in a position to restrict trade
with this country, wes forcefully emphasized during the
month. The feeling in regard to this matter that had re-
cently mcrkedly iner nsod was explained by the fect that
proviously the country had felt th:t, if neod bo, it could
turn to othor sources for its supplies of matcrials and for
morkets for its products, but, thet after the cutbreak of
tho European war, it wes shortly found tiat trade with the
rest
*Embassy's tologrem no. 710, Decembor 28, noon.
Embassy's tolegran no. 712, December 28, 6 p.m.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
-15-
rest of tho world had been so curtailcd that Jepon was
boing forcod by necosity to rely on tho United States
to an alarming oxtent for its oversecs conmerce.
II. RELATIOUS TITH OTER COUNTRIES.
(a)
Grect Britein.
1. Tientsin uestion.
741.94
In n stetonent nade on Deccriber 16 beforo a group of
members of the House of Poers tho Forcign inister ro-
perted that en rgroenont hed beon reached n the funda-
montol issues of the Tientsin question nl that the de-
trils were being str-ightene? out. This agroement con-
tered upon tho British plen for the solution of the silvor
question. The plan pr vicca that the silver held in the
British Concession sh ulc, fter an amount equivalent to
Lloo,0oo sterling had been sot side for  relief fund,
be stored in scne suit: ble pl: co in the C ncession and
held there under the joint contrel cf the Hongkong end
Shanghei Benking Corpor. tion and the Yokohame Specie Bunk.
The fund set aside was to be used for the reliof of fanine
conditions resulting directly fron the floods in oertein
areas cnd the drcught in other creas of North China and
was to be edninistered by oxperts appointed by and under
the jurisdiction of the British and J:punose Consuls Geu-
erel in Tientsin. In eddition, other experts of Chinese,
French and United States netionality were to bo invited to
essist in the administrction. The British Government, by
the end of the month, hod submitted this proposel to the
Chinoso

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
-16-
Crinesc N: tionel G vernnent t Clunekine for its pin-
ion. Te rr inder of the arrangoment between the Brit-
is. mnd Je anese G vernmentu ue lt vita currency ahu poli-
cine problems, already tentetively settled, and the Japen-
ese undertaking to reisc all restrictions imposed against
the Concession.*
2. Oponing of the Yangtze River.
The British Ambassedor vss i1.formed on December 18
by the Vico Minister for Foreign Affairs of the announce-
ment mede thet dny to the Anerican Anbassador concerning
the Japanese Governnent's intontion to open the Yangtze
River es far as Nonking. In renly to Sir Robert Craigie's
inquiries, Mr. Tani is reported to have stated that nego-
tiations vith regard to international arrangements deal-
ing with the resumption of navigation would be concerned
with the fivo following points:
a.
Military regulaticns nainly provid-
ing safeguards against the trans-
portation of munitions to enomy
forcos.
b. Customs arrangenents.
c.
Arrangements botween the shipping
interosts, which epparontly envis-
aged a pooling of thc shipping facili-
tics of the different countßies with
the allotmont of quotas to each.
d.
Regulations to prevent the Chineso Nat-
ionol Government from utilizing profits
node by the Chinese out of tho rosumption
of trede for the purchnse of wor mater-
iels.
e. Currency arrengoments, presumably to
the
*Embassy's telogram no. 682, Docember 16, 11 a.r1.
Despetoh n o. 4358, December 20, 1939.
Despatoh no. 4422, January 16, 1940.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
the end of preventing the onhaneing
in vrlue of the Chinese Nrtional
currency, which was oxpected to re-
sult fron the reoponing of the Yang-
tzo, fron projudicing the position of
the Japanose military yon in the pay-
mont of Japen's loc: 1 oxpenditures.*
3. Roprosentations M de by the British Embassy dur-
ing the l'onth.
Following vorious approoches made to the Jepenese Gov-
crnmant, at the end of the month the British airplane "Der-
denus", forced down on Weichow Islrnd, was finolly return-
od to the British authorities, but the cnso in regard to
compensation for the demage sustrined, et cetera, was not
settlod.**
Tho British Embcssy mode renresentotions cn Decerber
13 in regard to tho continued closure to foreign shipping
other then Japanese of the port of Swatow, pointing out
that the Japenese shipping interests were pernittod to
carry cn a lorge anl profiteble trade at the expense of
the British interests which were beine unwarrantedly ex-
cludcd therefron.***
(b) China.
1. Militcry oper tions.****
793.94
Militery opor tions during the month under reviow
woro cheracterized by defensive engagenonts and countor-
offonsive
* Enbessy's telograr! no. 694, Docember 20, 2 n.n.
**Dospatch no. 4342, Docember 18, 1939.
***Dcspatch no. 4344, Doccmber 18, 1939.
****proparod vith tho assistonco of the office of the
Milit-ry Atteché.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
offensive attecks g inst the so-called Chinese "win-
ter offensivo". By the ond of the month the Janeneso
re orts claimed thet this offonsivo had boen e com-
plete feilure for reesons which were described prin-
cipally to be the poor trrining, bed oquiprent end lack
of comnunicetion frcilities of the Chinose.
Chinoso offonsive oporations occurred on practically
all fronts, but tho most important reportodly centered
:roung Tatung on the Yongtzo River end in Kwangtung. In
regara to the former, ccmpcign Japanese sources claimed to
heve successfully beaton br ck Chinese assaults mndo in
contrel Anhwei ne r Tsingyong. In rogard to the latter,
after continuous attacks by the Chineso on tho northern
segmont of the Jepanese cordon ebout Centon, the Japenese
forces, in what were considered to be fcirly lrrge nun-
bers,launched a strong counter-attack in two drives bo-
ginning on Docenber 20. Tho first was nade north clong
the Conten-Hankow Roilwoy nd the Peh River vhich, by the
cna of the month, hod re-ched Yingtak. The other, pro-
ceeding to the north, st of C-nton, rosulted in the fall
of Lungmoon on Deconber 26 and then, in the occup tion of
Sinfong, nd on the last d:y of the month in the capture
of Sunwachen end Yungyuen in the northern port of the
province. The letter town had been the heedquarters of
the Chinese Kwangtung provinciel forces. It was intimated
in the press that Shiu-chow, en important point on the rail-
way in the northern tip of K angtung Piovince, wes to be
the finnl objectivo of this carpeign.
Further

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
r
-19-
Further fighting wes reported to have occurred in
Shansi without any definite results heving been attained.
Fighting also occurred close to Nancheng in Kiangsi Prov-
ince, neer Kaifeng in Honan Province, in Hopeh, Hupeh and
Kiangsu-Chekiang erens, while  lerge-scale engagement
took place at Paotow, Suiyuan Province. In this latter
campaign Chinese troops were reported to have penetrated
Paotow end a struggle wes seid to have ensued before re-
enforced Jepanese troops were able to drive off the attack-
ers. In Kwengsi Province Japancse troops made a sortie
from Nanning to the French Indochina border.
Incessant and large-scale eerial activity was con-
ducted by Japenese air forces, principally in connection
with combatting the offensives of the Chinese but also in
making various concentrated bonbing raids on interior oitios
and communication centers.
2. General Relotions.
There were no significant developments during Decem-
ber as regards Jrpan's politicel relctions with Chine. The
Prime Minister, on Decembor 14, stated that the projected
establishment of the new central regine in China would be
somewhet delsyed "but not becnuse of eny mejor difficulty".
Nothing further in the natter was made known.
(c) Yen Bloc.
There was held in Tokyo at the beginning of the month
under review a conference of representetives of Japan, Man-
chukuo" and the Japanese-sponsored regime in China to
disouss

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
discuss economic questions. It was ennounced that
this conferonce hed recommenaed the establishment of
e so-called "Enct Asiatic Bloc" vhich was cined at mak-
ing Japan, "Menchukuo" and Chinc self-sufficient and self-
relicnt, ore upon the other, in their economy. The new
cconomic order to be evolved, it was steted, was aimed at
"the eredication of imperial exploitation and control by
Europe and Anerica" end also at ending the reliance of
the bloc on Americen end European countries. Japen, it
was decided, should be the le der of this combination
"but would refrain fron selfish monopolistic activities
in it end would dir ct its cnergies to building up the
mutunl prosperity of the Erst Asietic races". Finance
Minister Kazuo Aoki, in discussing this mntter, is re-
ported to heve stotec thet he re-lized that it might be
ε difficult tcsk to effect complote economic cooperation
among Jepan, "Monchukuo" end China but he felt, never-
theless, that cooperrtion could be cccomplished through
various moasures, such es stete control over banking,
currency end other economic natters. Some criticism ap-
peared in Jepan in rogard to this project end warnings
were voiced to the offect thet, in the establishment of
the econonic bloc, Japan would be required to finance the
plen, which would meen an investment of billions of yen,
and thct clso Japan would have to supply not only much
of the moterials but also a large part of the technical
knowlodge and skill. It was doubted whether Japan could
accomplish all of this. It was noted, moroover, thet only
twenty

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
twenty per cent of Jepan's present imports cone fron the
Yen Bloc, and it was beiieved an impossible task would be
encountered in making the combination self-sufficient.
The question was raised whether, in fect, the new economic
order was not sought efter merely for politicel ends.
(a) France.
It will be recnlled that on Novenber 30 the Japanese
Government presented to the French Embassy et Tokyo a
strongly worded note in which it was requested that the
French colonial euthorities in French Indochina not only
prohibit the passagc of rns and emmuntion through that
colony but also the transit of ell articles, specifically
food commodities, eutomobile trucks, gasoline nd various
machinery, destined to the Chincse National Government.
In this note the question wcs clso br ught up, which also
had been reised on previous occcsions, of permission being
granted by the French authorities for the despatch of Jap-
anese officials to French Indochine to investigate on the
spot the traffic from Iuochina into China. On Decenber
11 the French Ebassy addressed a pro tempore reply to the
Foreign Orrico i. lic.. the Frcnch Arbassador expressed his
"painful surprise" at "the resumption by the Japanese Guv-
ernment of the baseless complaints against the Government of
Indochina in respect to the alleged traffic to Chiza of arms
and munitions". Tnc reply then continuod with the statement
that in a generel exchango of views between tho two govern-
ments such quostions could be raised as, for example, the
occupation

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
occupation by Japen of the Islcnd of Hainan, the do-
cision to ennex the Spratley Islends archipelago, the
restrictions upon navigation on the Yangtze, restric-
tions on commerce i: Japaese-occupied territories in
China, and all other discrimi:ations suffored by French
interests in China si ce the outbreak of the "incident".
It was thor stated thet the French Government believed
thet no practicel purpose could be served in regerd to
the sending of the proposed mission of inspection to the
cclony.*
(e) Russia.
1. Fisherics Agrcemert.
741.948
On the last day of the yeer there was signed a
modus vivendi to ronew the expiring fisheries agreement
for cle ycer to December 31, 1940. The agreement con-
tinued in force the provisions of the lepsing protocol.
In the modus vivendi it was also provided that a new
long-term fisherios convention would be concluded during
the coming yoor to roplaco it. It was roported that, in
tho nogotietions that lod up to this clevonth hour agroo-
ment, Japen had assented to e settlemont of the outstand-
ing indebtedness in connection with the balance owed the
Soviet Government on its peyment for the former Chinese
Eastern Railway. The conclusion of this settlement for
the coming yoar of the fisheries problem was regarded, in
view
* Despatoh no. 4356, Docember 20, 1939.
Despatoh no. 4382, December 28, 1939.
Despatch no. 4363, December 21, 1939.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
23-
view of the rancorous disputes over the n: tter in the
past, as a decidedly satisfectory accomplishment in
Japan's internationel rolations.
2. Border Demarcstion Cenference and Announce-
ment of Establishment of Commission to Domarcate En-
tire Soviet and Outer Mongolian Borders.
The conference which had been arranged for the de-
marcetion of thct section of the "Manchurian"-Outer Mon-
golien border concerned with the fighting in the Nomon-
hen area met at Chite in the first week of the month.
However, after & number of sessicns it was adjourned,
epparently without ony progress having been made, to be
reconvened in Januory at Harbin. It was reported that
et the end of the noith on agreement was reached between
tho Soviet and Jrparese Governments on a proposed plan to
demcrccte the entire frontier butween Manchuris and Sov-
iet Russia and betveen Manchuric and Outer Mo..golia, with
a view to proventing border incidents in the future and
to disposing pescefully of such incidents if they should
occur. Negotiations in this metter were to be carried on
after the first of the yoar.
3. General Reletions.
On December 4 the spokesman of the Foreign Office
categoricslly stated that tho Japanese Government was not
contemplating the conclusion of a non-aggression pact with
the

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
the Soviet Union.* He reiterated that the Governnent
was directing its efforts primarily toward & settlement
of the pending issues between the two countries. This
pronouncement as to the intentions of the Government was
evfdently intended in the laying et rest, for the time
being at leest, of further public agitation on the part
of certain reactiontry elenents for a political rapproche-
ment between tho two countries. Such further corments as
eppeared in the press on the matter during the month gon-
erelly sounded the note that an understending with. the
Soviets would probebly be tantamount to Jepen's destroy-
ing its "dignified anti-Cunintern poct and would lead to
political end idoological chcos". It wes also epparent
thet this feeling hnd received a good deal of impetus from
the news of the Sovict attack on Finland. Although the
vernaculer pross gonerolly rofroined fron condemning the
irvasion as an outright cct of aggression, much sympathy
was expressed for Finland and the thought was made mani-
fest of e further distrust of the Soviet Union's abiding
by any definite agreement entered into with it.
(f) Hungary.
It was announced that, on December 20, ratifications
had been exchanged between Junun and Hungary on a treaty
of amity between the two countries. This treaty provided
for the maintenance of friendship between the two coun-
tries and for the inauguration of cultural relations be-
tween tho two.
III. INTTRNAL
*Embassy's telegram no. 664, December 6, 7 p.n.
mbassy's telegram no. 667, December 7, 3 p.m.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) Position of the Abe Cabinet.
The situation es regards the position of tho Abe
cabinet becane highly disturbed during the month of
December and the question of its ronaining in office
developed into an acute issue. The sharp advances in
commodity prices, the apparent tendencies toward infla-
tion, the disruption in the distribution of commoditios,
the doarth of sunplies in: the markut of sone commodities,
such es rice, chercorl, netchos, et cetorn, and the de-
ficiency in the sunply of eloctric power and fuel to in-
dustry, occasioned incroasing populer discontent, end di-
roct responsibility for these troubles was put on the Gov-
ernment. Added to these internal problems, and as one of
the nost importent fectures in the country's resentment
egcinst the Government, wes its seoming incapability to
bring tho China "incident" perceptibly nearer to en end.
It wes held that the Abe Government had shown itself ir-
resolute and without fixed decision in coping with these
probloms and unable to accomplish anything of a really
constructive nature. Rosentment elso was creeping out
against the incrcesing Government control over all aspocts
of national activity, which resulted in irksome restrictions
without bringing concrete rosults.
The discontent in the country culmincted in a resolu-
tion subnitted by two hundred end sixty Diet menbers,
shortly

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
-25-
shortly efter the opcning of the Dict sossion, of non-
confidence in the Abo c binet and advocating its resig-
netion.* On Dccombor 27, in reply to this resolution,
Premier Abe asserted that his cabinet would not resign
because of internal difricultics but would proceed to-
werd the accomplishment of its major objective -- settle-
ment of the Chine "incident". In this statemont he ad-
mittod the scriousness of the problons of prices and sup-
ply of commodities but he placed tho blame largely on the
adjustments necessory in changing from a liberal econony
to e planned end controlled cconomy.**
Despite Promier Abe's pronouncenent, it was generally
felt in the ccuntry that the deys of his cebinet were num-
bered. The netion considered thet the troubles of Japan,
althcugh occasioned in the lorgest part by the China "in-
cident", were, nevertheless, attributable to the failure
to administer and organize tho country in such a way as
to meet the problens fecing it snd thet with their proper
handling Jepan could surmount all its difficulties. There
were a few weak voices heard, however, to suggest that
there might be some question as to whether the nation had
plans recdy or could find offective means to cope with the
situation and whethor a chango in Governnont would facili-
tate this ond.
(b)
) Government Ordinances.
1. on
* Embassy's telegram no. 713, Docomber 28, 7 p.n.
**Eubassy's telegrem no. 715, December 29, 7 p.m.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
-27.
1. On December 16 there was promulgated: on the
basis of Article 1o of the Ntioncl General Mobiliza-
tion Ta, an ordinance which provided fer the expropri-
ation or commandeering of so-called "general nobilize-
tion goods". This act applied to commodities und fac-
tories which might be required for military purposes.
2. There was promulgated on December 26 a Govern-
ment orainance calculated to prevent acts of profiteer-
ing. This decree prohibitec the selling of gocds for the
purpose of making large profits end provided that those
who "corner" or hc..rd commcdities in violction of this
ordinance shall be prosecuted end fined without warning;
ond thot, in case derlers hove comnodities and refuse to
sell them, they clso shall be punished.
(c)
Orficiel Price Control.
A number of neetings of the cebinot nd of the Gov-
ernment's Central Price Policy Conmission took place dur-
ing the month under reviow to devise means to cope with
the price situntion ana to meet the attacks levicd ageinst
the Commission for its failure to edjust and control prices,
which kept continuelly rising.
Following the ordinanco cgainst profitoering, promul-
gcted on Decenber 26, there was announced on December 27
a new revised Government price control policy. It was a
progran embodying six points, which were, in substance:
that adequate and effectivo moasures would be taken to hold
down the prices on such daily necessities as rice, ceresls,
bean pasto, soybeans, fish, charcoal, natches, selt end fresh
foods

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
foods; that in carrying out the production expansion
program of the country thorough considoretion would
be givon as well to supply tho needs of livelihood of
tho netion; that moasuros w uld be teken to prevent in-
creases in wages and salcrics "in order to prevent infla-
tion"; that allowances would be paid to those persons who
might suffer from the pegging of wages and salaries; and
thet the administration of the official end somi-official
organizetions concerned with the Government's price pol-
icy would be reexamined.
Although the measures for nrice control and other regu-
lations for the control of the cconomic structure of the
country, taken during December and during the year 1939,
wero directed to the end, es was stated by Premier Abe in
his announcenent concerning his determination not to re-
sign from office (sec above), of effecting full Government
control and regulation of the economic life of Japan, it
was stressed that the policy and dominant thought in the
country was one of clinging as far as possible to a system
of keeping tho measures nodorate and endeevoring by ex-
hortation rather then by rigid dictation to gain full co-
operation and participation by the people in the Govern-
ment's program.*
(a) Army.
A conference of the Emperor end the high conmand was
held on December 26 to determine upon Japan's defense needs.
Al though
Despatch no. 4324, Decembor 14, 1939.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
Although no deteils concerning the deliberetions were
made public, it was reported that arrangomonts had been
decided upon to increase the armed strength of Japan
under a program designed to meet "the developnent in
the ever-changing internetional situetion as regards
both Europe and East Asia".
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to roport.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
National bonds, emounting ε1together to Yen 660,000,000
were issued by the Government during December. The rate of
894,51
absorption improved over thet for Novenber, representing
75.2 per cent es agcinst 62 per cent for the previous month.
The absorption of bonds for the entire year was given as
89.2 per cent. This figure showed a gain in total amount
of bonds absorbed over thet for the year of 1938, when the
amount reached was 87.4 per cent. However, during 1939
the assimiletion of bonds fell off narkedly in the last half
of the yeer, when it was only 77 per cent, as compared with
l04 per cent for the first half of the year.
The amount of Government bonds floated during the year
reached the figuro of Yen 5,298,000,000, which raised the
total national bonded indebtedness to Yon 21,520,200,000
as of December 31, 1939. It is noted that this amount rep-
resented a dcubling of the netional debt of Janan since
1937 and thet, if the issuance of bonds is continued at
the

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
-30.
the present rate, the naticnel debt will egain be doub-
led in four years' tims.
There was an unprecedented increase in the note is-
sue of the Bank of Japan during December. On December
30 notes outstanding reched the figure of Yen 3,818,000,000.
a rocord high, and represented an increase of Yen 872,0o0,-
ooo from the ond of November. Moreover, on December 30,
the logal limit reportedly was exceeded by Yen 1,l16,000,-
ooo. It has been the usucl prectice for the note issues
to be increased at the end of eech year, largely beceuso
of the annual settlements of cccounts, but the amount of
the increase this yeer ereatly exceeded that usually in-
curred. It represented on increase of approximately Yen
1,000,000,000, as comparcd to that at the end of 1938. It
was said that this increase abeut equcled the amount of
Government bonds issued in 1939 which had not been absorbed
and that one of the contributing causes for the increase in
the note issue was the falling off in the assimilation of
bonds flosted by the Government.
National Budget for Year 1940-41.
Early in December there was made public the draft
budget for the fiscal yeer 1940-4l. The estimate placod
the total at Yen 10,360,000,000, an incroaso of Yon
951,000,000 over the curront budgot. This figuro was div-
ided into exponditures of Yon 5,900,000,000 under tho Gen-
eral Accounts and Yen 4,460,000,000 for thc Extraordinary
Militery Spocial Account essignable to tho hostilities in
China. It was estimated that the new bond issues which
w111

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
31-
will be required for the financing of the 1940-41 ex-
pendituros would be approximately Yen 5,475,000,000.
Through a revised systen of taxation an increase of Yen
373,000,000 in taxes was provided for over the present
year. All classes will shcre in the increesed tax bur-
den.
VI. GENERAL ECONOIIC AID FINANCIAL CONDITIONS.*
Business activity throughout Jrpen during December
was noticeably increcsed, due in l rge part to the stimu-
lus of heavy Governnent rayments, and of distribution of
the year-end bonuses and year-end settlemonts. The re-
tail trade, in particuler, benefited fron the wer-time
inflati nary spending boom, although official efforts
were made to discourage excessive holiday buying. De-
spite the high level of businoss activity during the
month there were othor developments which were not so sat-
isfactory. These included shortages of daily necessities
in urban centcrs, particularly of rice and fuel in Tokyo,
the unversel confusion regarding official price control
policies, the upward trend in living costs and a further
trend towards inflation.
The official wholesele, retail and cost of living in-
dices concerning the month cleerly reflocted the upward
trend of commodity prices. Wholesele prices were reported
to have jumped by almost 5 per cent higher than those for
November. Retail priccs were up almost 2 per cont over the
November figures and the cost of living by anproximately
1.2
Prepared with the assistance of the office of the Ccm-
mercial Attaché.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
1.2 per cent. Figures compared wi th those at the end
of 1938 showed an advance in wholesale prices of ap-
proximately 23 per cont, in retail prices of 17 per
cent and in the cost of living of approxinately 14
per cent. The most pronounced gains in the living costs
during 1939 occurred in food and clothing, which advanced
by approxinately 23 per cent and 21 per cent respectively
over the previous year. The increase in the cost of liv-
ing since the cutbreck of the Chine "incident" was report-
edly approximately 30 per cent.
Besides the twe orcinences regarding profiteering
and expropriction of "generel mobilization goods", men-
tioned in Suction III above, other outstanding official
measures introduced during the month included official
regulation of land nd narine transportation, the subject-
ing of carbide and ch rccal to distribution control, the
establishment of official prices for whect, flour, resin,
boric acid, soap, agricultural implements, cellophane and
straw products and the compulsory sale of rice. An agree-
ment wes also reached tc fix the prico of fortilizers at
current levels and to subsidize manufacturers of fertiliz-
ers to compensate for the rising costs of production. The
aim of this lottor decision is to assist and promote agri-
culture in Japan to neet primcrily the difficulties caused
by the shortage of rico.
Measures under contempletion for the extension of of-
ficial prico control and the rogulation of business included
a new food distribution plan, a retail sales' licensing
system

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
system, e new system of war risk conpensction insurance
and some form of regul tion of the raw silk trade to check
the upward trend of quotations. Reports woro also pub-
lished during the nonth tht some consideretion was be-
ing given to the introduction of & systen of rationing
deily necessities, but the Minister of Agriculture, in
a press interview in the middle of the month, denied
that the Govornmont was contemplating any such action at
the time being. It was also undorstood that there was be-
ing considered control over the domestic distribution of
chemicals, porticulerly as regerds coment, caustic sodn,
dyestuffs and chenical oils.
The volune of finencial transoctions during the month
recched en all-time high. The Bank of Japan's locns also
reached a new high during the month, exceeding Yen
1,000,000,000 on December 30. Interest rates increesed
towards the close of the month. The stock market, how-
ever, eppeared little influenced by the activity of the
financial markets and only fractional gains were register-
ed in everege share values during the month. The Yen-
Dollar exchange rate remaincd at $0.2343.
The Rice Situation.
The adverse situation as regerds the price and supply
of rico, which had appeared during October cnd November
(Political Roport for Novenber) took on serious propor-
tions during December. Public feeling in the matter be-
came exacerbated, with open criticism leveled cgainst the
Government for its having allowed the matter to reach a
point

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
-34-
point where the country hed become faced with an acute
shortage of this prime national food. with the agricul-
tural ye r's hervest already reaped, there arose the ques-
tion of a sufficiency of rice to carry thc nation through
to the next year's crop, beginning November 1, 1940. The
questionsof mal-distribution of rice in the cities and in.
dustrial centers and of hoarding by the farmers and mer-
chants who were refusing to relcose or sell tho comnodity
in anticipation of further price rises, also attracted
serious study.
To meot this growing criticrl situation tho Government
ennoanced that rice totaling 1,200,000 koku (one koky equal-
ing nbout five Americen bushels) was being purchased from
abrocd. At the scme time, Article 4 of the Rice Distribu-
tion Contrel Lew providing for the compulsory sale of rice
wes invoked, but it was proviled that the enforcement of
the measure would be left to the respective prefectural
govornors.
By the end of the month the agit: tion over the rice
shortage had subsided somewhat. Lalest officially announc-
ed ostimates for the past yeer's crop in Japan proper showed
c lerger production than that which had becn previously pre-
dictcd. The viow was put forward as rogards the rico situa-
tion that Japan was faced with little danger of e serious
shortege during tho coning rice yoar. Nevertheless, the
problom remained potontially very dongerous, in that if a
similerly curteilod crop occurred in the whole Empire next year
the nation as a wholo would undoubtedly be feced with a
disastor

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
disester of major proportions.*
General Econonic Situstion for tho Yeor 1939.
The year 1939 represented, as fur ac figures avail-
able would show, e very active egricultural, industrial
and commercial period which, as regards Japan internelly.
on the face at least, marked a decidedly infletioncry
prosperity. Farm income was reported to heve been the
highest since the World Wer. There wes & 50 per cent
weighted increase in the farm incone fron rice, wheat and
raw silk.
. The 1939 cocoon output was reported to have
amounted to over 90,000,000 kwan (one kwan equaling 8.3
pounds), which represented a 27 per cent increase over
that of 1938 and the 1argest anount produced for six
years. Silk prices during the year clnost trebled in
velue, rising fron cbout Yen 850 per brle in December
1930 to around Yen 2400 by the end of Decomber 1939.
The
velue of the crop was roported to heve cmounted to Yen
882,000,000, or a 155 per cent increase over the previous
yeer. The wheat crop represonted a 36 per cent increase
over 1938, and the rice crop in Japan proper, ccccrding
to the Government's announcerent, was officially estina-
ted at approxinately 69,o00,000 koku, the socond highest
on record, a small incroase over 1938, elthough due to
the very poor horvests in Korca and Formosa the total har-
vest of the Empire was down appreciably. According to the
Government estimates fectory employment and industrial
output ronched a new high. This latter favoreble condition,
however,
* Despatch no. 4362, December 22, 1939.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
howover, was not reflected in the supply of consump-
tion goods, in as much as a tremendous part of the
productive cepacity of the nation had beon diverted
to the manufccture of munitions and wer meterials.
Moreover, the sorious intornal rise in the cost of liv-
ing in Jepan, the inforior quelity of the products pro-
ducod, tho scarcity of certin conmoditios for home con-
sumption and thc sharp rises in the latter part of the
year of raw meterials and other products bought fron
abroad, cut down to en appreciable extent the actual
increese in the meterial wealth of the nation attained
during the yenr, and, in fact, resultei in a general
lowering of tho standerd of living in Jopan.*
Forcign Trede.
Statistics for the forcign trede of the entire Jap-
anese Empire for the month of Decenber vere:
Exports: Yen 470,600,000.
Imports: Yen 331,600,000.
These figures represented e very large increase in
both exports end imports from the previous month, amount-
ing to approximately Yen 82,000,000 in exports and around
Yen 103,000,000 in imports. The exports in value for the
month were the highest ever recorded in Japan's foreign
trade. ost of the major items in Japan's export trade
increesed, but the export of textiles accounted for a
large pert of the gain. Japan proper's trade during the
month with foreign currency countries (i.e., countries
other
Annual Report of Corrorciol ond Economic Conditions in
Jepan for the Year 1939, Prepered by the Orrice of the
Commercicl Attaché.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
-37-
other than those of the Yen Bloc) showed a small favor-
able balcnce. Japan proper's trade with the Yen Bloc
amounted to Yen 211,300,000 for exports and Yen 84,300,-
ooo for imports, reprosonting increases in both catogor-
ies over those for the provious month.
the
Empire's
Figures for/Jepanese/forcign trade for the entire
yecr of 1939 amounted to:
Exports: Yen 3,932,000,000.
Imports: Yen 3,127,000,000.
Exports, which were the highest on record in velue, rep-
resented an increesc of 35 per cent over those for 1938.
Imports were lo per cent abovo those for the previous
year. Tho favorable balancc in trede was Yen 805,00o,000.
However, the b-lence of trade of Japen proper (i.e., ex-
cluding Kare, Ferrens and Kantung Locsed Territory) with
foreign currency countries was still unfavorable, in the
amount of approximately Yen 405,000,000, but improved
apprecicbly as compared with the unfevorable belance in
1938, which cnounted to Yen 575,000,000. Figures for
proper's
Japan / trade with the Yen Bloc (including Hongkong) were
Exports: Yen 1,777,000,000,
an increase of 50
per cont over 1938,
and
Imports: Yen 684,000,000,
an increase of
over 22 per cent.
The large improvement in Japan's foreign trade was account-
ed for meinly in the lest half of the year which showed
very large gains over the first six months. The outbreak
of hostilities in Europe, the incrersed demand fron the
Yen

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
-38-
Yon Bloc and tho 15 per cent dopreciation in the val-
ue of the yen explained in lnrge part this incroaso in
the second half of the yoar. Tuere was a 13 p cart
incrcaso in cotton toxtilo shipnents in volume and ?
por cont in value during the yocr. Raw silk exporteo
was 19 per cont loss than in 1938 in quentity but 39
per cent greater in volue. Eighty-six por cent of the
emount of silk shipped from Jon wont to tho United
Stotes. Other gains in Jenan's oxport trede vere found
in canned goods products, rayon textiles, cotton thread.
lumber, mechinery, ot cctera.
VII. ACTIVITITS OF AIERICAN CONIERCIAL INTTR STS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITTCS OF FOREIGN COIMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to ronort.
IISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to roport.
000 000 000

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
TELEGRA S SENT TO THE DEPARTIENT
DURING DLCE BER 1939
No.
Date
Subject
644
Deo. 1, noon
Departure of Mr. illians, Commercial
Attaché,fcr the United States.
645 Dec. 1, 3 n.n.
Preis comments on Japan's forein
relations.
646
Dec 1 6 n.n.
Detention of r. Tucker.
647
Dec. 1, 8 p.m.
Interview of the French A rusador
with the Foreirn inister.
648 Dec. 1, 9 n.m. Correction of Farbled code group.
649
Dec. 2, 1l a. 1. Appointment vith the Foreisn inister.
650
Dec. 2, 6 n.n. Interview vith r. Y.
651
Dec. 3, 2 p.m. Detention of r. Tucker.
652
Dec. 4, 5 n.m.
Interference with Catholic Mission
pronerty t Sinsiang.
653 Dec. 4, 6 p.m.
Representations regarding Lutheran
Brethren :ission, Tunepeh, bo bing.
654 Dec. 4, 7 p.m.
Renresentations regarding dirficulties
of Americans at Chenliu.
655 Dec. 4, 8 p.m. Interview with the Foreign inister.
656
Dec. 4, 10 p.n. Interview with the Foreign Minister.
657
Dec. 4, 11 n.a. Detention of Ir. Tucker.
658
Dec. 5, 6 p.m. Derarture of r. illians.
659
Dec. 6, noon
Emnloyment of messenger.
660
Dec. 6, 1 p.m.
Representations regarding National City
Ban's case.
651 Dec. 6, 5 p.m.
Fress comment on the Soviet invasion
of Finland.
662 Dec. 6, 6 n.m. Visit to Japan of Dr. Frank Buchman.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
663
Dec. 6, 7 p.m.
Statement of Mr. Suma to the ress.
664
Dec. 6,  .m.
Negotiations with the Soviet Union.
665
Luc. 6, 9 p.m.
Situation at Chenliu.
666
Dec. 7, 2 p.n.
Conversution between Mr. Yoshizawa
and Mp. Dooman.
667 Dec. 7, 3 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Office to
the press regarding relations with
the Soviet Union.
668 Dec. 7, 4 p.m.
Living quarters allowances for
tlophone operators.
669 Dec. 8, 4 p.m.
Requisition for funds.
670 Dac. 8, 5 n.m.
Proposed denarture for the United
States of Yr. Y.
671 Dec. 8, 6 p.m.
Note from the Foreign Office regarding
egg trade restrictions.
672 Dec. 9, 3 n.n.
Press comment regarding Jananese-
American relations.
673 Dec. 11, 1 p.1.
Jufgested interview with the Fcrelen
inister ano resultant publicity.
674 Dec. 1l, 5 p.n. Pcsting of mail on American vessels.
675 Dec. 11, 6 r..
Report of a Japanese press corres-
pondent in ashington.
676 Dec. 11, 8 p.m.
Proposal of the Foreign Office to the
French Eabassy regarding traffic into
China.
677 Dec. 13, noon
hipment of ir. Grunmon's effects.
678 Dec. 1, 1 p.m.
Press comnent on Japanese-American
relations.
679 Dec. 13, 5 p.m.
Statement of Iir. Suma regarding
Japanese-American relations.
680 Doc. 15, 1 r.m. Statement of Foreien inister con-
cerning opening of the Yangtze.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
681
Dec. 16, 10 a.m.
Tientsin silver ucstion.
682
Dec. 16, 11 a..
Tientsin silver cvetion.
683
Doc. 16, noon
Padio interference.
684
Dec. 16, 6 p.m.
arrival of r. Ttrne.
685
Dec. 17, 3 p.m.
Note to the Fo:viin Orfice acknow-
ledging its noses on damare to
Auerican rrorprtv in China.
686
Deo. 18, 6 n.m.
Interview with he Foreign Minister.
687
Dec. 18, 10 n.m.
Interview with h: Foreign inister.
688
Dec. 18, 11 n.m.
Interview with the Foreign inister.
689
Dee. 13, midnirht
Japanese-merican relations.
690
Dec. 19, 6 p.m.
ress comment on Junanese intention
to oren the Yungtze.
691 Dec. 19, 7 n.m.
Interview of r. Yoshizawa with
Ur. Dooman.
692
Den. 20, 11 a.m.
Jaranese- merican relations.
693
Des. 20, 1 p.m.
Chemical Construction Curporation's
case.
694 Dec. 20, 2 p.m.
Telegram of the British Ambassador
to London.
695 Dec. 20, 5 p.m.
Press comment on Japanese-American
relations.
696 Dec. 21, 6 .n.
Publicity concernins statement to be
given to the Foreign Minister.
697, Dac. 21, 7 p.m.
Japanese proposal for pooline foreign
shipring on the Yangtze.
698 Dec. 32, 5 n.m.
D. arture of ir. X for Europe.
699 Dec. 22, 9 p.m.
Interview with the Foreign Minister.
1 700 Dec. 23, 1 .m.
Statement of the Foreign Office
Spokesman.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
No.
Date
Subject
701 Dec. 23, 2 p.m. Renresentations concerning R.K.0.
Moving picture distributors.
702 Dec. 24, 7 p.m.
Press comment concerning Japanese-
Aaerican relations.
703 Dec. 25, 1 r.m. Re ort of a Japanese press corres-
pondent in Washington.
704 Dec. 26, 11 a.m. Departure of Mr. Villiams.
705 Dec. 26, 1 p.m. Representst:ons concerning Caroline
Leaf Tobacco C.any.
706 Dec. 26, 7 n.m.
Letter from Mr. Yoshizawa to Mr. Dooman
concerning Fureign Office replies to
property damage representations.
707 .Dec. 27, noon
Representations corcerning Chenliu
situation.
708 Dec. 27, 3 p.m.
Conversaticns with the Fcreign Office
concerning newspaper reports.
709 Dec. 28, 1l a.m. New Year holidays.
710 Dec. 28, noon
Explanation of the Fureign Office
spokesman concerning statement made
by him to the press.
711 Dec. 28, 4 p.m.
Movements of Margaret Gurtner, German
national.
712 Dec. 28, 6 n.m.
Press comment on Japanese-A orican
relations.
713 Dec. 28, 7 p.m.
Resolution calling on the Prime
Minister to resign.
714 Dec. 29, 1 p.m.
Request for authorization to issue
a visa to the Counselor of the Pulish
Eubassy in Tokyo.
715 Dec. 29, 7 p.m. Ro ly of the Premier to the press to the
resolution calling for his resignation.
716 Dec. 30, 10 a.m. Ci,her tables.
717 Dec. 30, noon
Japanese protest against a reported
A.erican "moral embargo".

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.97)
DESFATCS SET TO TFE DEPART ENT
DEC BER 1939
TO.
Date
Subject
4276
December 2
Diplonatic Visa Report
4277
December 
Universel Leaf Tobacco Company of China.
4278
Decenber 4
I crshall Field  Company, Swetov
4279
Decerber 2
Seizure as "booty" by Japanese naval
la ding force of tobocco belonging to
the Carolina Leaf Tobacco Company.
4280
Decerber 2
Arericen Presbyteriar Tission, North
Changteh, Hunan.
4281
December 2
Anericer Catholic Hission, weilin,
Yangsi.
4282
December 2
Seventh Da" Aavertist Mission, Chuanchow.
4283
Decerber 2
A:erican Presbyterion Yission, North
Hengyang.
4284
Decenber 2
Scandiravia" Allience Tission, Slan,
chensi.
4285
Decerber 2
Christi crd lission rv Allience,
Yweilin, Kvenasi.
4286
Decerber 2
Arerican Southern "cptist Lission Hos-
pital, Kweilin, en si.
4287
Decenber 2
Anerican Catholic ission, vingtan.
4288
December 2
Trensmittins o Polish .enorandum regard-
ire the attitu e of the Soviet Inion
towurd the present situatlon in Lurope.
4289
December 2
Reorgenization plen.
4290
Decerber 8
Transmitting menorandum relatinr to
Jepanese efforss to curb Anerican lis-
sionary activity in Closen.
4291
December 9
Diplonatic Visa Report.
4292
Deceber 11
Fukier Christian University, Foochow.
4293
December 11
Lutheran United Iission Mospitel, Kio-
shan, Tonan.
4294
Decerber 11
Stout l'emoriel Fosrital, ''uchow.
4295
Decerber 11
Covenant 'issionery Society, Ki"gmen,
Hupeh.
4296
December 11
Americcn Church Pission, Ichang, Hupeh.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
NO.
Date
Subject
4297
Deceriber 11
Verner c. Smith Conpany, Wanhsien,
Szechuan.
4299
Deceiber 11
Covenent issionary Society, lang-
ling, Hupeh.
4299
December 11
Beptist Mission, Shaohing, Chekian:
4300
Dece:ber 11
Refor ed Church Lission, Vuenling,
Hunan.
4301
December 11
Evanzelical Mission, Vuanling, Hunan.
4302
Decerher 11
Deptist I'ission Stout enoriel Hos-
nital, 'uchov, ven si.
4303
Decenber 11
Standord-Vacuum Oil Connany, Manning,
ruengsi.
4304
Decernber 11
Atericcn Methodist bisconal Hission,
Chungling.
4305
Dece: ber 11
Seventl. Jay Adventist Lission,
Janning, Kuengsi.
4306
Decer:ber 11
Property of Irs. Saddie K. McCartney,
Chungking.
4307
Decenber 11
Arericen ethodist Episcopal Mission,
Chunghing.
4308
December 11
standa.rd-vacuum Cil Company, Nanchang.
Kiangsi.
4309
Deceber 11
ethodist Iission, 'anchan, Kiangsi.
4310
Decomber 11
Stand rd-Vacuun Cil Jonpany, "uchow,
Kiengsi.
4311
Decerber 11
Souter Baptist I'ission, Luichow,
Kwangtung.
4312
Decerber 11
Jepanese-Soviet rel-tions.
4313
Decerber 11
J:nenese Jarcotics Treffic Renort,
1938.
4314
December 11,
The "aseda Cucrdian: Jananese-Anericar
reltions.
4315
Decerber 13
Fifth uarter Exanin'tion of Ir. Ralph
J. Blrke.
4316
Decer.ber 13
Represent:tions regarding Japanese
interference in School of the Aericen
Catholic ission, Sinsiang, Honan.
4317
Decenber 13
Property of Rosendo Dy Chauco, Hosan,
Amoy.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
3-
NO.
Date
Subject
4318
December 13
Europeen Linen Importinc Corporation,
Swatow.
4319
December 13
Atteck on Dr. Frederick C. Scovel by
Torenese soldier t Tsining, Srantun.
4320
December 13
Lutheran Prethren :ission, Tungpeh
"oren.
4321
December 13
Interfererce by the Jananese cuthoritio
in Feiping  ith ennloyees of the Nat-
ional City Bank or Fev York.
4322
Decenber 13
Renresentations lade by the Jritish
Enbassy with regeru to an article in
the :IYAYO.
4323
December 18
Transnitting nenorandum of conversa-
tion regerding Anerican interests in
Ching as affected by tlhe nostilities.
4324
Decenber 14
Price and wage control measures in
Japan -- inflation ond te capstones
to a controlled econony.
4325
December 15
Egg trade rest:ictions.
4326
Decenber 15
Injuries caused to Ir. Alfred Kohlberg
as result of shooting by Japcnese
soldiers.
4327
Decenber 15
Standard-Vacuum Cil Company, Ichang,
Hupeh.
4328
December 15
Standera-Vacuum Cil Conpany, Cheng-
lingki, "unan.
4329
Deceber 15
Ir. F. Tillman Durdin, Chungking.
4330
December 15
Arericen lethodist Iission, Chungkin~.
4331
Decerber 16
Jopanese restrictions and regulations
innosed on Anericrn ationals and
Alericen business enterprises t
Tientsin.
4332
Decerber 16
Representations regaraing Jepanese in-
terference in School of Sisters of Prov
idence, Yifeng, Honan.
4333
December 16
tandard-Vacuum Oil Company's vessel
MEISIN
4334
December 16
Seventh Da: Adventist Mission, Yalgan,
Chahar.
4335
December 16
Arerican Catholic lMission, Yeung Kong,
Kwangtung.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
'O.
Date
Subject
4336
December 16
Lingnan University, Canton.
4337
December 16
Maryknoll Mission, Swatow.
4338
Necember 16
Address delivered by the Ambessedor.
4339
December 16
Employment of chauffeur.
4340
December 16
Charwornan.
4341
December 16
Oaths of office.
4342
December 18
Japcnese attack on the Imperial
Airways plane D' RDAlUS: British
representations.
4343
December 18
Internatiolal convention for the
safety of 1ife at sea, 1929.
4344
December 18
British representations to reopen the
port of Swatow.
4345
December 18
British claim for damages caused by
Japanese armed forces in China.
4346
December 18
Acknowledgment of recent replies of
Japanese Government to Embassy's rep-
resent tions concerning damage to
American property and interests in
China.
4347
December 18
Ninth Congress of the International
Seed Testing Associrtion.
4348
December 18
Talmedge College, Americon Reformed
Church Mission, Changchow, Fukion.
4349
December 18
Pebron Yission, Kwanshan, Kwangtung.
4350
Docember 18
Anti-American agitation at Chenliu,
Honan.
4351
December 13
Reciprocel priviloges of yachts.
4352
December 18
Employment of tomporary fireman.
4353
December 19
Currency restrictions imposed by the
Japaneso military at Canton.
4354
December 19
Two-year examination of Nr. Glon I.
Bruner, language officer.
4355
Docember 19
Rolinquishmont of citizenship by in-
dividuals of the Japanesc raco who
possess dual nationality.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
NO.
Datc
Subjoct
4356
December 20
Fronch-Japaneso rolations.
4357
Docenbor 20
Employment of messonger for Colmaor-
ciel Attaché.
4358
Decembor 20
Anglo Japanose nogotiations cocon-
ing Tiontsin question.
4359
Docember 1
American-Japaneso rolations.
4360
Decombor 20
Memorial sarvico for "allace McKinrey
Alexander.
4361
December 21
Pro-rating of Enbassy tolophore
charges.
4362
December 22
The prcsont rice problom in Japan.
4363
December 21
Fronch-Jepanese relations.
4364
December 21
Transmittin clipping -- Comaent on
and interprotation of statoment made
by Ministor of ar on Hovember 10.1939.
4365
Decomber 21
Jepaneso press conment on tho Nine
Power Pact -- Articlc by vojiro
Sugimori.
4366
Docomber 21
Jananeso press comment on the Nine
Pover Pact -- Article by Chuko
Ikczaki.
4367
Decomber 22
Aloriccn-Japanoso rcl tions: Conversa-
tion botwoen Ambassador Crew and the
Japanosc Ministor for Foreign Affairs.
4368
December 22
Radio broadcast to the United States by
Mr. Juji Kasai on Deccnber 13, 1939.
4369
December 2
Alleged establishment of joint trad-
ing corporation in China botwoen Jar-
dine, Matheson and Company and various
Japanose inturests.
4370
Decomber 22
Press cornont on Japaneso-American
relations -- Articlo by r. Bunshiro
Suzuki, staff correspondent of the
ASAHI.
4371
Decomber 22
Substance of e tolegram from the
British Ambassador to London: Pro-
posod ro-opuning of the Yangtze.
4372
Decomber 22
Transmitting clipping -- Pross intor-
view of Mr. Nelson D. Brayton.
4373
Docenber 22
Transmitting clipping -- Commont on
tho United States neval expansion pro
gram.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
No.
Deto
Subject
4374
December 26
Claim of the General American Cor
Company ngainst the Poiping Suiyuan
Ruilwey.
4575
December 26
Temporery employnent of John Wilson
Gaddis, Clerk.
4376
Decenber 28
Agrcement for air services between
Japan and Thailand.
4377
Ducember 28
Report of conditions in Japan dur-
ing November 1939.
4378
December 28
Anerican-Japanose relations: Grew-
Nomure conversation, December 22,1939.
4379
Decomber 30
Transmitting clipping -- Comments of
Mr. Jitaro Kihara, Japaneso Vice Consul
at Manila, on Philippine Independence
and Japenose-Philippine rolations.
4380
Docember 29
Chinese Maritimo Custons, Swatow.
4381
December 29
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company of China.
4382
December 28
French-Japanese Relations.
4383
December 29
Transmitting clipping -- Comments of
Mr. Yasuzo Shinizu, Christian mission-
ary in China, upon his departurc from
Japan for the United States.
4384
December 28
Anti-Americen agitation at Chonliu,
Honan.
4385
Decenber 28
Jepenose bombing of Stondnrd-Vecuum
Oil Compony at Shasi, Hupeh.
####

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 26, 1940
Tokyo's despatoh no. 4485, February 13,
o, entitled "Report of Conditions in Japan
Daring the Month of January 1940".
Effective February 1, 1940, there has been
promulgated an ordinance providing for Govern-
ment control of marine transportation. It is
based on the National Mobilization Law and
supplants the Provisional Shipping Control Law
(page 26).
Currenoy in ciroulation at the close of
January 1940 is reported to have been
Y3,277,000,000, an 1ncrease of Y1,122,000,000
over January 31, 1939. There is usually a
large contraction of currency circulation in
the first month after the close of the calendar
year, but this year the January decline in
circulation as compared with December was only
Y116,000,000(fag27).
ce
FE:COVIlle:HJN

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DIVISION OF
OF THE
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MAR 29 1940
Jw
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 4485
DEPARN
Tokyo, February 13, 1940.
SUBJBCT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
TH OF JANUARY 1940.
 OFFICE OF THE ADVISER N
COPIES SENT TO
INTERNATIONAL ECONINIC AFFAIRS
O.N.I. AND M.J.D.
Division of
C.
APR1-1940G
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Bonorab
The Secretary of State
Cofy in FE
Washington.
894.00OR
Sir:
ONI MID
00 P.R./146
With reference to the Department's instruction
no. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
Japan for the month of January 1940.
ASSISIANI SECKETARY
DEPAPTMENT OF STATE
Respectfully yours,
Np 16. Frm
MAR 27 1340
OF STATE
Joseph C. Grew
American Ambassador
APR 3-1940
FILED
JE:wg
molosure:
Roport pot for natie n
In quiatuplichte  the Department.
Copies to mbassies at Peiping, Chungking, Mosoow.
Copies to Consulates General at Shanghai, Mukden, Harbin,
Seoul and Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates at Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki
Negoya, Taihoku, Yok
Cepy to gemmemder-in-Onier or the Uvs.'Asiatie Fleet.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
No. 160
REPORT OF COIDITIONS I! JAPAN DURING
THE MONTH OF JANUARY 1 9 4 0.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X
A N D
SUMARY
I.
RELATIONS WITH THE TNITED STATES
(a) Termination of Treεty of Commerce and
Navigation of 1911
1,2,3
(b) Japenese Bombing of Haiphong-Yunnan
Reilway
3,4
(c) Representetions of Jepanese Government
regarding Exportation from United States
of Aircraft, etc.
4
(d) Representations Made by American Em-
bassy in Januery
4,5,6,7
(e) Replies from Foreign Office to Repre-
sentations Mede by Embassy
7,8,9
(f) General Relations
9,10,11
II. RELATIONS 'ITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Great Britain
1. Stopping of Asame Mcru and Removal
of German Seamen by British Cruiser 12,13,14
15
2. Representetions Made by British
Embassy
15
(b) China
16
1. Militcry Operations
16,17,18
2. General Relations
18,19,20
(c) France
20
1. Bombing of Haiphong-Yunnan Railwey
20,21,22
(d) Russia
22
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CO DITIONS
(a) Resignation of Abc Cabinet and Inaugu-
ration of Yonai Cabinet
22,23,
24,25
(b) Government Ordinances
26,
(c) Official Price Control and Regula-
tion of Notional Economy
26,27
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
27
v.
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
27
VI.
GENERAL ECONOIIC AND FINANCIAL COIDITIONS
27
Power Shortage in Japan
28,29
30,31
Foreign Trade
31

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AL ERICAL CO IERCIAL INTERESTS
32
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLI"ERCIAL IUTERESTS
32
IX.
LABOR
32
X.
IISCELLAIEOUS
32
。 0 。

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a)
Termination of the Treaty of Commerce
and Navigation or 1911.
The interview on January 23 of the Japanese Am-
bassaior at Washington with Mr. Berle, when the ques-
川
tion of the commercial relations between the United
States and Japan after the expiration on January 26
of the Treaty of Commerce and Navigation was discussed,*
was prominently written up in the Japanese press. The
articles in this regard were headed by a statement to
the effect that "the developments" in the Far East re-
ferred to by Mr. Berle meant Japan's attitude towards
the rights and interests of Americans in China.
On January 25 an Imperial Ordinance was promul-
gated by the Japanese Government providing for the ex-
tension, for the time being, of the benefits of low
tariff conventions to American goods after the expira-
tion of the treaty. This measure, it was reported in
the press, was taken on the part of the Japanese Gov-
ernment in response to the American decision not to
impose for the present discriminating duties upon Jap-
anese goods and thereby to effect a continuance of the
present basis of commercial relations between the two
countries, despite the lapse of the treaty. It was
also understood that by administrative procedure the
entry and residence of American citizens would be regu-
lated in a manner corresponding procisoly with rogula-
tions in that respect enforced by the Unitad States.**
It
*Department's telegram no. 32, January 23, 4 p.m.
Department's telegram no. 33, January 23, 6 p.m.
**Embassy's telegram no. 32, Januery 20, 11 a.m.
mbassy's telegram no. 49, January 25, 10 p.m.
Despatch no. 4448, January 26, 1940.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
It was prodicted in the Japanese press on sever-
al occasions that, fcllowing the Ambassador's last
convcrsation with the Foroign Minister on December 22,
1939, the Foreign Minister would again take up with
Mr. Grew the questions of the expiration of the treaty
and of the entering into of a new trcaty or of some
arrangement to continue in force the treaty's provis-
ions. No further discussion concerning those matters,
however, were held in Tokyo during January. The For-
eign Offico, on the date of the termination of the
treaty, issued a statemont in connection with its ex-
piration, setting forth the Japanese Government's atti-
tude in the matter. It was stated in this announce-
ment that the abrogation of the treaty by the United
was
States Government/"apparently intended to be of ser-
vice in the solution of questions arising between Jap-
an and America in connection with thc China Affair".
Montion was then made of the efforts exerted by the
Japanese Government to explain its position to the
United States Government to resdjust relations be-
tween the two countries and to attain a new treaty or
to prevent the advent of a treatyless si tuation. It
was reiteratod in this conncction that "Japan's policy
was not  aimed at eliminating the just and rcasonable
interests of Third Powors in China". The statoment
then referred to thc steps taken on the part of both
Governments to avoid discriminatory troatment of the
trade between tho two countries, and it was deolared
that thereby the commercial relations between Japan and
Ar orioa

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
would, in practico, be subject to no change. The
statement was concluued with the remark that, never-
thcless, a treatyless situation was not felt to be
desirablo for either Japan or America, as it left
trade relations and relations in general in an un-
stable position and it was hoped that through fur-
ther negotiation Japanese-American relations would
be restored to a normal state with a treaty basis.*
(b)
Japaneso Bombing of Haiphong-Yunnan
Railway.
In conformity with tho Department's instructions
the Embassy made informal representetions on January
31 to the Foreign Offico in regerd to the recont bomb-
ings by Japenese militory planes in Chinose territory
(reference: Section on Japanese Relations with China)
of the Haiphong-Yunnan Railvay. In this approach it
was pointed out that a considerable part of thc trade
involved in the United Stetes' normal commercial re-
lations with Chine had, in recent months, been carried
on by way of that reilway and that Jepanese bombing of
the railway must, therefore, necessarily injure Amor-
ican commerce and may endanger the lives of American
citizens engaged in that commerce, as well as the per-
sonnol of American official ostablishments at Chungking,
who are using the railwey in the conduct of their of-
ficial duties. It was stated thet, if this bombing
activity continued, the United States would be compelled
to include it in the long list of commercial and other
injuries
*Embassy's telegram no. 48, January 25, 9 p.m.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
injuries which it has suffered through Japanese action
in China.*
(c)
 Representations of the Japanese Gov-
ernment as rogards the Exportation
from the United States of Aircraft,etc.
The Japanese Ambassador at Vashington, on January
6, made reprosentations to the Dopartment regarding
steps taken by the United Statos Governmont on Decem-
ber 15 end December 20, 1939 towards discouraging the
export to certcin countries of nircraft, aircraft
parts, materirls essential to cirplane menufacture
and tochnical informetion required for the production
of high quality aviation gasoline.** The protest mede
by tho Japanese Ambassador was placed on the ground
that such embargo infringed the Treaty of Commerce end
Navigation.***
(d) Reprosentations Made by the Embassy
In January.
The Embassy nade represontations to the Foreign
Office in Janurry in the following instences:
1. Looting and burning of the Christian & Mis-
sionery Allianco proporty at Lungchow, Iwangsi Prov-
ince in the lettor part of Decembor 1939.****
2. Pensions owed to six American citizens by
the
Dopartmont's telogram no. 25, January 19, 6 p.m.
Dopartment's telogran no, 41, January 30, 6 p.n.
Embassy's telegrar no. 43, Jenuary 25, 3 p.m.
Enbassy's telegran no. 67, Jenuary 31, 6 p.n.
**Departmont's tclogram no. 10, Januery 6, 4 p.m.
Dopartment's telegrem no. 38, Jenuary 29, 6 p.m.
***gmbassy's telegram no. 717, December 30, 1939, noon.
****Hongkong's telegram no. 13, January 9, 11 a.m.
Embassy's telegram of January 12, 6 p.m. to Chungking
and Hongkong.
Chungking's telegram of Janury 16, 1l a.m. to Tokyo.
Department's telegram no. 17, January 12, 3 p.m.
mbassy's telegram no. 29, January 18, 5 p.m.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
the former Chinese Eastern Railway, the payment of
which the South Manchuric Railwcy, the successor to
the fomer company, had discontinued.*
3. Claim of the Chemical Construction Corpora-
tion for the finel payment due it for construction of
the Yung Li Chemical Industries, Linited, plants at
Pukow, Kiengsu Province, Chine, which plants were taken
over by Japanese interests.**
4. Assaults on Miss Francos Donaldson, Mr. M.A.
Williams, end Mrs. A. A. McFayden by Jepanese soldiers
and agents in or neer Shenghei during the letter pert
of 1939.***
It is reported from Shanghei thot the
cases involving Miss Donuldson and Mrs. McFayden wore
settlcd locally there.****
5. Further interforunce by local uuthorities at
Sinsiang with the property and activities of the
American Cethclic Mission.*****
6. Occupation by Jupanese military of tho Hwa
Shing "harf, Pootung, Shenghai, and dclay of its re-
turn to its American owners.******
7. interrerence
*Despatch no. 4406, Jenuery 10, 1940.
**Despatch no. 4416, January 15, 1940.
***Embassy's telegram no. 42, January 24, 7 p.m.
Despatch no. 4449, Janurry 26, 1940.
****Shanghai's telegram no. 56, Januery 19, 4 p.m.
Shanghai's telogram no. 57, January 19, 5 p.n.
*****Department's telogram no. 27, Jenuery 20, 5 p.m.
Embessy:s tclogram no. 45, January 25, 6 p.m.
Despatch no. 4451, Janunry 29, 1940.
******Departmont's tclegran no. 29, January 20, 4 p.m.
Embassy's telegran no. 52, Januery 26, 4 p.m.
Despatch no. 4453, Jrnuary 29, 1940.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.97)
-6-
7. Interferencc with the Radio Station ss of
the Americen Nevy.*
E. Continued intaference with the activitics of
Anerican firns in tho egg trado in the Yangtzo Valloy,
ettendent upon the virtucl monopoly of th: Mitsui,
Bussan Kaisha, effected by the actions of the Jepanese
authorities at Shanghai.**
During the month of Jenucry the Erbessy nade rep-
resentctions c ncerning American propcrty losses in
China in the folloving instances:
1. Renowed bonbing by Jenenese plones of American
Church Mission proporty, Ichang, Hupch.***
2. Bombing by Japanoso planes of the American
Catholic Mir sion, Kochow, Kwangtung.****
3. B abing by Jepanese planes of Standard-Vacuum
Oil C~mpany, Yiyang, Honan.*****
4. Bombing by Japonese planes of vangelical Luth-
eran Pissi n, Shasi, Hupch.******
5. Renewed
*Dupartment's telegram no. 6, January 4, 2 p n.
Embossy's telegran no. 56, Januery 27, 9 a m.
**Department's telegran no. 28, January 20, 3 p.n.
Embassy's tolegrem no. 61, Janu: ry 29, i p .
Desnatch no. 4454, January 29, 1940.
***Clungking's telegram no. 5, January 3, 4 p.n.
Despatch no. 4401, Jenurry 10, 1940.
****Canton's telegrar nc. 1si, December 29  p.n.
Despetch no. 4402, January 10, 1940.
*****Hankow's telogram no. 282, December 23. 1939.
Despatch no. 4403, Jenucry 10, 1940.
******Ciungking's telegram no. 654, Docembor 21, 3 p.n.
Despatch no. 4104, Jenuery 10, 1940.
Despstch no. 4447, January 26, 1940.
Chungking's telcgrem no. 24, Janurry 12, 3 p.m.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
5. Renewed sh lling by a Japanose warship of
the United Brethron Mission Hospital, Siulam, Chung-
she!: Kwangtung.*
6. Bombing by Japanese planes of buildings rent-
od cnd occupied by the Evongeliccl Luthoran Mission,
Icheng, Hupch.**
(e) Replios from the Foreign Office to
Reprosentations M o by tho Embassy.
The Embassy roceived during the month of Januery
rosponses fron tho Forcign Office to its representa-
tions in the following instrncus:
1. In rcply to tho mbassy's roprosont:tions of
October 23 and November 15, 1939, concerning the inter-
ference by e Japanose radio station vith the reception
of the brocdcasts from tho Auricn radio stetion KGET.***
2. In ruply t: the Eibassy's ropresent:ticns of
November 15, 1939, regerding thc heavy financial exact-
ions denanded by the Japanese in connection with the ex-
port cnd shipment f linens by Amorican firms in Swatow.
It was contendod .therein that, although tho port of Swa-
tow is closed duc to military oxigoncies, oxcuptional
facilities woro grantcd to Arorican concerns wishing to
export linons end that, under the circunstences, it was
unjust tc cite this case as an example of Japanose in-
terferonce with Arorican rights and intorests. It was
further hold thet thero hed been no intorference with
those
*Canton's telogram no. 7, Janusry 16, 3 p.m.
Despatch no. 4445, January 26, 1940.
**Chungking's telogram no. 25, Jenuary 13, 9 a.m.
Despatch no. 4446, Janurry 26, 1940.
***Embassy's tologrem no. 15, Jamuary 12, noon.
Despatch no. 4412, January 15, 1940.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
those rights by the Japanese authorities at Swatow
and that the "donati ns" to the "Swatow Restoration
Conmittoe" were entirely voluntary on the pert of
the Americen shippors and th-t excessive froight retos
wer not imposod on the American firms.*
3. In renly to tho Enbassy's note dated Merch
24, 1939, concerning the taxation of products of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Compeny at Kaifeng and Tatung.
This reply steted that a respense had elready been
made to the American Embassy et Peiping concorning the
question of the tax tion at Kaifeng and that, es ro-
gards the taxation at Tutung, "a boundary tax or
Shahuk'ou tax" had been collected at Shahuk'ou on all
goods entering the Mong lian district, oven before the
outbreak of tho prusont China "incident", and that the
tax was to bo continued but was being applied equitably
to both foreign and domostic goods.**
4. In roply to the Eabussy's reprosentations made
on Septomber 6, 1939 in regard to the currencies and
notes to be used, specifically the Hwa Hsing notes, in
tho collcction of custons at Shenghai. This reply was
to the offect that the measures token in regord to the
use of the Hwc Hsing notes wore "oxpedient and woll suit-
ed to present conditions***
5. In further reply (supplementing the Freign
Office note of December 28) to the Embassy's representa-
ticns made on Septenber 2, 1939, concerning the seizure
by
*Despatch no. 4421, Januury 16, 1940.
**Despatch no. 4436, Jcnuery 24, 1940.
***Despatch no. 4437, Janucry 25, 1940.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.97)
-9-
by tho Japanesc militcry authorities of the Chinose
Maritimo Custons at Swatow. In this conmunication
the Toreign Minister stated that the question was sat-
isfectorily settlod et the ond of lost yoar.*
(f) General Relations.
The press published during Jenurry verious erticles
intincting thst thoro was little possibility f eny er-
rangements being medc to avoid e poriod of trentyless
relntiens arising between the tve countries. The ter-
mination of the trecty, therefere, olthough it repre-
sented the major consideration in Japenese concorn over
American-Japanuso relations, was genorully anticipeted
end the day of J. nur ry 26 passed without the matter be-
ing overly strossed, probably becuuse attontion at that
time was fccussed up n the Asea Maru incident (refer-
enco:
Section on Japanese Rlatins with Greet Brit-
ain).
Jepan, it was stated, had becomo resigned to the
termination of its treaty with the United Statos. There
had been taken, however, it was widely suggested, much
of the sting fro: this otherwiso unfrvorrble dovelop-
mont through the temporery errangonents mede to continue
nornal trode rolctions. Consicerble emphasis wes placed
on this lrtter fact. It was roasoned, noreover, that
Japan was comperetively sefe fron the imposition of em-
bargoes by the United States, through the self-interest
of
*Enbassy's tel3gram no. 60, January 29, noon.
Dospatch no. 4456, January 29, 1940.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.97)
-10~
of Americen business which would provent its Governnent
fron taking any drastic cction. It was folt furthor
that Je:an will have no cifficulty in the future in
importing non-nilitary goods, t least, fron Amcrica.
Other consideretions, however, made for a feeling
of ceution in viowing the relations botwocn the two
countries. During the month under review, the connect-
ion of the tormination of the trocty with the solution
of the problens between Jopen nd the United St-tee cun-
cerning Japenese actions in Chine was mode clear to the
country. It was deduced that the United States Govern-
ment intended to use the termination of the treaty as an
implement agsinst Jepan in enforcing Anericen wishes in
regara to the settlement of the China Affair, but it
was held that Japan, on the other hand, "would not yield
an inch on its fundamental policy in China". Sensing
the implied conflict of positions between the twe coun
tries, the Japanese manifosted in regard to the termina-
tion of thc treaty uneasiness over Amcrican-Japanose re-
lutions, and it was genorally c nsidered that danger was
latent.
A great cool of attention wes given during the month
of Jenuary in regerd to tho roportod discussions in the
Americen Houso of Representatives over the expansion pro-
gram of the Americen Navy. On Jenuary 1l, the spokesman
of tho Japenese Navy lMinistry is reported to have stoted
that the plan for : 25 por cent increcse in Anerice's nav-
al strength was a mettor of "greve concern" to tho Japonose
Navy

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.97)
11-
Navy. Mention was mace in nessing of the fact that it
was possible that the Anorican navel expansion program
rolacd dircctly to Europeen affairs, but it was be-
lieved that the proposed oxpensien of American naval
strength was intonded in the main to facilitate offens-
ive operations in the western Pacific.
The agitation over the metter subsided towards the
end of the month, when reperts appeered that the pro-
posed expansion of the American Navy was to be greatly
urtailed; but the feeling continued that the matter
was still one of concern to this country.
II. RELATIONS

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
II.
RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
1. Stopping of the S.S. Asama Maru and Removal
from It of German Seamen by British Cruiser.
On January 21 the Japanese trans-Pacific passenger
ship Asama Maru of the N.Y.Y. line was stopped by a
British cruiser less than loo miles out from Yokohama and
was boarded by a party of British officers and sailors.
From a list produced by a British officer, twenty-one of
a number of some fifty odd German seamen who were return-
ing by way of Japan to Germany were called out and removed
from the Jananese ship. The following day the British Eiu-
bassy issued an announcement to the effect that the Brit-
ish had a right, in accordance with international law, to
remove from a neutral vessel all Germans of military age
as being reservists in the German armed forces but that,
in this instance, only those seamen who were regarded as
technicians and skilled ratings and, therefore, of special
value to German military operations, were removed.*
News of this incident brought forth in Japan an im-
mediate display of resentment, denunciation of Great Brit-
ain, and demand for strong action to be taken by the Japa-
nese Government in the matter. The Foreign Office issued
a stetement that the Japanese authorities regarded the
forceful removal of the twenty-one German seamen from the
Asama Maru as "very disagreeable". The view generally taken
in Japan wes that the act was illogal, but the agitation in
the
*Embassy's telegram no. 37, January 22, 6 p.m.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
the matter centered particularly around tho point that
the stopping of the Asama Maru represented an insult to
and offend d the prestige of Japan, especially in that
it occurred so close to Japan "in the sphere of Japanose
influonce" cnd, as it was put, "within the very view of
the sacred Mt. Fuji". It is also to be noted, as was
explained by a member of the Foreign Ofrice, that the
commotion aroused over this incidont could be consid-
ered as partly attributable to the tonse norvous state
of the Jepanose people, in view of the difficuit nrob-
lems that Janan was facing in its intornal and foreign
affairs. On Jenuary 22, the British Ambessedor was
called to the Forcign Offico end prosented vith a note
by the Vice-llinister, strongly protesting ageinst the
romoval of thc seamen. This note, following along the
lines of the statement issucd by the Foreign Office,
stressed the unfriendly nature of the act, referred to
the fact that the seizure took place "in waters near
Jepan", set forth tho position of the Japaneso Govern-
ment that arrest of nationals of belligerent countries
on neutral vessels by forces of another bolligerent coun-
try must bo "limited to those actually ombodied in the
armed forces" and, after reserving in advance the right to
demand the return of the detained Gormans, roquested that
the British Governmont pey serious hoed to the end that
such action not be repeated.*
On January 25, the British Ambassador made e statemont
to the prcss in en ondeavor to calm the excitoment in the
country. He stated that no affront was intendod towards
Japan
*mbassy's telogram no. 39, January 23, 7 p.m.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
>
d
-14-
Japan and he pointed out that the right of visit and
search was universally recognized and that in this con-
nection the Japanese Nevy during the "Cuinose Incident"
had stopped British ships on mor than l9l occasions,
with the British ship Ranpura, for example, being
stopped at & point four miles away fron the coast of
Hongkong.
Following further discussions betveen the British
Ambassedor and the Foroign Office during the month, in
a noto dated Januery 27 end presonted at tho ond of the
month, th: British madc reply to the Jepanese protest.
In this roply it was stated that "the British Government
greatly regretted that the present incident, occurring
as it did so close to the capital of Jipan, should have
aroused such profound resentment in Japan". It then
continued with a long discussion of tho British inter-
preation of the international law applicable to the
caso and tho British position thereto which was, in sub-
stancc, that Article 47 of the Doclaration of London,
upon which it was undorstood the Japaneso contention
als
was based that only bolligorent natioractually ombod-
ied in the armed forces could be seized, was not bind-
ing in thet it had never come into force; thet by pre-
codont tho British had the right to remove "military
persons" of an cnemy power fron neutral vessels, that
tho torm "military persons" must cover individuals who,
though they might not be directly included in their coun-
try's armed forces, yet are under legal liability to
serve therein and are returning to their own country for
the

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.97)
a
-15-
the purpose of fulfilling the obligation of. military
service. It was then held thut there was no doubt,
from the Germen laws which were cited in tho note,
that the seamen scizcd were liable to military sor-
vico.*
B: the ond of the month no sottloment of tho issue
had becn reached. It was reported, however, that the
Jupaneso Govornment was requesting of the British Em-
bassy to reconsider the stand t ken in its note and to
accopt tho possibility of a "political" settlement of
the incident which would set &side the "legclistic
nspects" of the affeir, "in the interest of a broader
solutior covcring th: emotiongl indignation on the
part of the J panese people" (sic).**
2. Reprcsont:tions Made by tho British Embassy
during the Month undcr Review.
During Janucry the British Embassy made representa-
tions to the Forcign office in the following instances:
a. Intorference with British interests et Shanghai,
with particular regard to the removel of large quanti-
ties of cotton from the Sung Sing mill no. 7, mortgaged
to the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
b. Continued interferonce with the Britisn egg
trade ir the lower Yangtze Valley.***
c. Burning by the Jananoso militory of the English
Methodist Mission t Chuchin, Shantung on Dccembor 25,1939.
(b) China
*Embassy's telegrem no. 70, February 1, 5 p.m.
**umbessy's tolegram no. 46, January 25, 7 p.m.
Embassy's tolegram no. 57, January 28, 5 p.m.
Embassy's telegram no. 66, January 31, 5 p.m.
Despatch no. 4452, January 29, 1940.
***Despatch no. 4454, January 29, 1940.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
(b)
China.
1. Militery Operutions.*
Tapanese militory operetions curing the month under
reviov were involved with continued fighiing ovor most
of the fronts in China, but were foatured by throe out-
standing dovelopments: the Suiyuan copaign; the Nan-
ning-Pinyang-Wunuing operations; and the "strategic
withdrawal" from northern Kwengtung. Folloving tho
Chinese attack on Paotow, Suiyuan, in the so-called
"winter offonsivo" last December, the Japanese are re-
ported to have essembled large forces, much of which were
nochanized, εt th:t city, and, on Janury 24, to have
lrunched a campaign wostward along the south and north
benks of the Yollow River. By the end of the month the
Jepanoso claimed to h-ve t ken n number of Chinese posi-
tions, and to have edvanced many miles westward, direct-
ing the advance upon Wuyuan and Linho. The roasons for
this apparently large-scale offensive wero considered
to be fourfold: to crush thc Chineso military strength
in the plains around Wuyuan which had been used for
some time as a baso of Chinese operations against the
westornmost rail-head of the Kwantung Army at Paotow;
to guin control of the fertilo plains which wero a pro-
ductive sourco of wool, hides, skins, and cattlo; to
attain a possiblo basc of attack ngninst tho Chineso
supply route fror Soviet Russia by way of Pinliang to
Sian; end lcstly, to occupy in edvence the possible route
for a Soviet atteck on Manchuria or North Chinc through
the district. It is undcrstood thst possession of the
o11
*Prepercd with the assistance of the office of the Mili-
tary Attaché.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.96)
8
-17-
resources of this crer was one of the Jepaneso object-
ivos.
It was reported thst the Chinese had assembled
some 200,000 troops in the noighborhood of Nanning for
the purpose of recepturirg th:t city. To meet this
expected attack tho Jupanose were undurstood to have
hcevily reenforced their gerrison at Nanning and, on
January 28, to have launched ε cnmpaign on their own
pert with tho view to thwarting the Cii.sse attack.
Heavy fighting, it wes reported, was under wey
at tho ond of January in this campcign dirocted agoinst
Pi:y ng.
In the orlier port of the me th the Jopanese hnd
also launched  clooning-up campaign long thc Yamchow-
Nanning highwey which ves being nssaulted by Chinese
troops.
of the cther operctions corried on during the month
it is noted that fighting continued in Shansi, neer Nan-
king, in Hupeh, - invelving the lines of communication
out from Hankow, the r.ilway lending south from Hankow
to Yochow end the highwey running northwest from Hankow
to Icheng, - along the Hupeh-Hunan border in tho Tahung
mountain rcgion, in tho Huchow-Hangchow-Kashing aroa wost
of Shanghai and in a drive across the Tsiontang River
south of Hangchow, Chokiang Province.
The Jopanese cir force conducted large-scnle air
operctions during Jenuary, particularly in connection
with tho two militery compaigns t Nanning nnd Suiyuan.
It is reportod thst the Jcpanese, i the recent operations
in

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
in tho Nanning oren, had used as meny us 1,50o planos.
Politically the most importent of tho bombing raids
conducted during the month vwere those reids upon the
Haiphong-Yunnan Reilvey. It wes roportod that during
the surics of attacks seversl bridges were damaged and
the line cut in severcl places, seriously disrupting
traffic on the railway.
Following the offensive nr leduring Decomber by
the Jrpanese forces into the northorn port of Kwong-
tung Province, tho Jopanese troops in the first part
of Jonuary "withdrew" to anproxinctel" the line held
before the offensive bogen, evacu-ting the towns of
Yungyuen, Senhwachen (nd Yingtak. The Japanese re-
ports claimed that the withdrtwel was for strategic
purposes, but there is re so. to believe, in view of
the assertions mede in December, that the cempaign
held cs its finrl objuctivo tho capture of Shiuchow in
the nerthorn tip of Kwongtung. The Jepanese had appar-
ently overextended thonselves or were driven back in
defoat by the Chinoso forces.
2. Gonerol Rolations.
It wes reported in Jepan that, on December 3, an
agreomont had bcon reached at Shanghai between a Japan-
ese dologrtion ho-dod by Lioutenent-Gonerel Heisuko Yana-
gawa, Dircctor-Generel of the Chinn Affairs Boerd, and
Mr. "eng Ching-woi, rogarding the torms for the estab-
lishnent cf tho now centrel regimo in Chine. After var-
ious official conferences were held in Tokyo, it was
roportod

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
reported that, on January 8, the Cabinet had reached
a decision according approval to the agreement and, as
anncun:ed by the Cabinet spokesman, had formulated "a
basic policy" which provided for the rendering of pow-
erful and positive support for the formetion and ex-
pansion of the new Government. The contents of the
agroement and the full purport of the "basic policy"
were not revealed but it was suggested that the arrange-
ments for the establishment of tho 'ung Ching-wei re-
gime had been definitely decided upon.*
The press in Japen affected to see in the proposed
establishment of the new rogime "o political vehicle"
by which the disposnl of the China "incident" could be
furthered. Editorial comment in some of the more con-
servative newsnepors wes in the nature of  werning
thet tho setting up of a new central governmont in Chine
vo ld not bring the China Affair to an end, and that it
hod become pparent th:t the Chint compaign had now de-
veloped into a war of endurence. In this latter connect-
ion there vas manifest a realization that the Chinese were
showing strong determinction of resistance to Jupan end
much grecter militcry strength than the Japanoshcd ever
expectod. Articlcs in the press went so fur as to state
that the country must mcke a re-estinate of the ability
and the dcterninction of the Chinese to oppose Japan.
It was said in explenation of this thesis that before the
fighting in Chinc began it was felt that, with a fow divi-
sions, Japen could shortly ovorrun China, but it was now
considered
*Embassy's telcgren no. 31, January 19, 5 p.m.
Poiping's telegram no. 13, January 9, 4 p.m.
Shanghai's telegram no. 51, January 17, 7 p.m.
Poiping's telogram no. 39, Januery 29, 6 p.m.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
-20-
considered that tho Jepanese had erred, not as regards
the Jepanese milit ry might, but in misjudging the task
bofrre it. Note was slso taken that the Chinese Nat-
ionnl Government h:d
neither collapsod nor disinte-
grated as he? been expected, but, insteed, was still
very strong nd poverful politically.*
There elso appoared durine the nonth under review
an undertone of doubt concernirs the purpose and moan-
ing of the Chine Affeir ona vhat the continu tion of the
hostilitics was to lead to. It wrs csked how far Jepan
was going to go in protocting its rights in Chinn. It
was st tod th't it was ll v ry vell to protect those
rights but questiored vhother tho interests of the on-
tire Japenese n: tior in the onormous. costs to it should
be relugeted to thoso rights.
(c)
France.
1. Bonbing of the Haiphong-Yunnan Railway.
On Jenu.ry 5 and 6, the French Anbassador made strong
written protusts to the Foreign Minister in regard to the
large-scale borbing attacks conducted by Japanese planes
on Dcceuber 30, Jonuery 1, 2 and 4, on the Haiphong-Yun-
nan Railway (reforcnco: Soction on Japanese Rolations
with China). In those notes it was stated thet the rail-
way was constructed with French copital exclusively end
thet it is the proporty of c French company, which is re-
sponsible for its operation. It was pointed out that
these
*Embcssy's tolegram no. 80, Februcry 3, 8 p.n.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
à
-21-
theso attacks wer causing gr: ve injury to tho prosent
efforts in Tokyo anc Paris for an edjustnent of rela-
ticns botween the two countries an: it was requested
that stringent orders be issued to have tho bombings
stopped.*
In a roply dated Jenuary 12, the Minister for For-
eign Affairs reiteroted the position theretofore tekon
by the Jepaneso Govornment (Embossy's Politiccl Reports
for November and Deccmber) to the effect thet, Cespite
the French denials, the Jep: nese Governnent hrd indis-
put:ble evidence thet arms and other supplies were be-
ing sent to thc Chieng Kri-shek regime fron Indochina;
that so long s this condition of affcirs continued the
J:panose military cuthoritios would "continue and even
intonsify its coricl bonbing of the railway" ana would
employ other rioans to put an en to such traffic; that
for the rual justment of reletions between J-pun and
Fronce the French Gov rnmont should stop tho treffic in
all goods susceptible of incregsing tho strength of the
resistence of the Chiang Kai-shok regimo"; and that tho
Jepenose Governnont disclainod rosponsibility for the
damage done to the rilwey through tho noriel attacks.**
It is to be note? here thot the Jopenose Ambassador at
Paris was inforncc by the French Foreign Officc intor
alia thnt, ns tho Japanose Government hed carefully re-
frained from declering wer on Chine, Japan was not qualified
to
*Embassy's telegran no. 6, January 6, 7 p.m.
Despatoh no. 4394, January 9, 1940.
**Despetch no. 4424, J-nuary 16, 1940.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
to claim belligerent rights; that the French Government
was not bound by any logal obligation to Japan in re-
gerd to the transit of war materials through French Inuo-
china; and thet the Frunci Government wes not consider-
ing the closure of the railwcy to Chim but, if it id
close tho In ochi fr tiur, it woulu i vo to stop the
shipments of iron, nickel and all the products exported
from its territories to Jpon.*
(1) Russia.
It was announced on the last day of the month by
the Foreign Office th:t the mixed border commission
which hed been conferring at Harbin during January had
failed to recch any agreement and that the commission
htd been dissolved due to conflicting views between the
two parties. Fron the reports received from other sources
it wis understood that nothing was accomplishod during the
ncotings of the cormission th:t had been held over a per-
iod of εlmost tvo nonths.**
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Rosignation of the Abe Cebinet and In-
auguration of tho Yonai Cabinet.
On Janurry 14 the Abe C-binet rosigned en bloc. Un-
like the fall of the two provious Cabinets, the rosigne-
894.002
tion of the Abe Cabinet had been generally anticipated.
There
*Depertment's telegren no. 36, Jenuary 27, 3 p.n.
**Harbin's telegran no. 3, Januery 28, noon.
Harbin's telegran no. 4, Jenuary 31, 3 p.m.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
Thero was an open and gonerally populer opposition to
tho Cabinet, occasioncd primarily fron its failuro to
docl sctisfactorily with internal affairs concorned
principelly with the ccononic conditions ir tho country.
(Reference: Embassy's Political Reports for October,
November and December).
Tho C-binet hed committed what tho country chose to
tern one blunder ftor nothor in the cconomic nd poli-
ticel ficlds. It will be r c-lled th-t popular dissatis-
frction with the Government hod been nonifosted through
the membors of the Diut, a large boay of whom had adopted
a resolution of non-confid nce with tho Cabinet et the
end of Deceniber. It was understood thet Prenier Abe had
deternined to ignore these attacks and the country's op-
position n? tht, if the Diet, upon its reconvontion in
Janunry entered a formal voto of non-confidonoe, he was
deterninod to dissolve P:rliamont. The end of his admin-
istration, however, cumo when, on January 8, the Army and
Navy withdrev their support. Reportedly, the militery
felt that dissolution of the Dict, by bringing out internal
dissension whon a united front was neoded, would bo a bed
movo ot tho present time.
On the following dey Admirol Mitsumnsa Yonai recoived
tho Imperial comnond to form ☐ new Cobinet. His solootion
come es  general surprise to the country and it was re-
portec that ho had been turned to es s third choice. In
the political maneuvers that took place beforehand to find
c new Premier it wes reported that the Army, with strong
popular

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
popular backing, Wented Prince Konoc to toke the posi-
tion. Prince Konoe, hovever, firnly declined, on the
grounds of his incompetence to de: 1 with the current
grave econonic problons. The high personages about
the throne vished to have General Hata or some other
Army officer take on th. task ona to place the responsi-
bility squaroly on the shoulders of the militery for
today's difficulties vhich cre largely of their making.
The Arny was said to heve refused to dc so, and went so
far as to prohibit uny officer on tle cctive list fron
cccepting tho Preniership.
In the choice cf Adnire1 Yonei, whom the Army was
willing to ccept, nd vith whon, after his selection,
the Arny Wes crdered
by the mperor to cooper te, it
wes folt thrt  mon hod boen founa whose couroge, strong
pers nolity, nodorto viuvs, experience fron having held
the Novy Ministry portfolio in the Yonoe cnd Hiranuma
Cobinets, and faniliarity with the current problens fac-
ing the country, vould nake a suitable candidcte for tho
Premiership.
Admiral Yonai's C vi..et, which was organized in a
very short time, wes composed as foll ws:*
Prime Ministor: Admiral Mitsumasa Yonai
Minister for Foreign Affairs: Mr. Hachiro Arita
Minister of Home Affcirs: Count Hideo Kodena
Linister of Finance: Mn. Yukio Sakurauchi
Minister of ar: General Shunroku Hatc
Ministor of Nevy: Vicc-Adniral Zongo Yoshida
Minister f Justice: Ir. Shotatsu Kinura
I'inistor of Education: Mr. Cainjiro Mftsuurc
Minister of Agriculture and F restry: Mr. Toshio
Shinada
linister of Cummerce cnd Industry: Mr. Ginjiro Fujihara
Ministor
*Dospctch no. 4486, Fobrunry 13, 1940.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.97)
-25-
Miistor of Communicctions: Mi. M.sanori Katsu
Minister of R:ilways: Mr. Tsuruhei Matsuno
Minister of Oversens Affeirs: Genercl Kuniaki Koiso
Minister of elfare: Mr. Shigeru Yoshida
Chief Socretory of the C:binet: Mr. Sotaro Ishiwata
Director of the Logislative Bureau of the Cabinet:
Mr. Hisatadc Hirose
Director of the Cabinet Plenning Board: Mr. Kakichi
Takouchi
The recction to the C binet vas generelly favorable.
It was c nsidered that, although there were no statosnen
emong them, tho Ministors were ble mon en? hed had a
good deal (f experience on? would be well led by the new
Premier. Thore wos s me specultion, however, as regerds
how much backing th. new Cabinet would be cble to secure
in the coming Diet sossion fren the politicel orties,
despite the frct th t  number of perty men were includ-
ed in it.*
In a press interview given n J nu ry 16, the new
Premier gave en outline of tie policies that his cdnini-
stration would follow. He stid that generally they would
represent a continuctien of thoso of the preceding Gov-
ernment. He likenei the a proach that he w uld toke to
his probloms to a triped which would have as its three
feet the China "incident", intcrnational questions, and
domestic problens, ench being given equal inportance and
ottention and all mado to stand tcgether. The press gen-
crelly commonted cn this pclicy as boing vague and inde-
cisive but expressed the hope thrt Adnirel Yonai would
be able to work out Jopan's difficulties satisf-ctcrily.
(b) Governmont
*Desnatch no. 4486, Fobrunry 13, 1940.
Embessy's telegram no. 12, Jenuary 11, noon.
Embassy's telogrem no. 17, Janur ry 12, 6 p.n.
Embassy's telegram no. 18, Janucry 14, noon.
mbassy's telegram no. 19, Jenuary 14, 9 p.m.
Embassy's telegram no. 20, Jenuary 15, 5 p.n.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
-26-
(b)
Government Ordinances.
Thore was pronulgoted at the ond of the month under
revicw en orei anco provi ing for Governnent c ntrol of
merine transpcrtation. This rainrnce, which was to come
into offect on Fobruary 1, vas basod on Articles 8 and 15
of tho N: ti nal Mobilizction L: w anc wus to supplant the
Provisioncl Shipping C ntrol Law. It proviced, in sub-
st nce, for Government regul tion n? fixing of the prices
of ships, freight n chorter r-tos; for the ch rtering
n' building of ships n : perrission bosis; and for
general contrel ovor the mrino transnort ti n inaustry.
(c)
Officirl Frice Control ne Regulction of
Notina1 Economy.
It Was announcel n Janu ry 27 th t the Yonei Cubi-
not hed drawn up  six-point wertine price control pro-
gram. This pregr m was sinil'r to th t set forth by the
Abe Crbinet in Decenber 1939 but was more specific in its
provisiens. Tho progrun set forth the Governnent's aims
to maintain a low price policy, especially as applied to
prino nocessitics; to lay down promptly suitable pricos,
to elininate oxcess profits fron industry; to provent in-
flation by contrecting currency enl deflcting the wer
boom; to curtril comnolity consumption; to roorganize
the price contrel mechanism end conter it upon the Cen-
trel Prico Control Conmitteo; and to trke under ncvise-
ment the question of enforcing stato control of distribu-
tion of importent conmodities, strengthening of the in-
surance ond pension systoms, instituting compulsory sav-
ings an? ticket purchase of necessities and inproving the
distribution

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.97)
-27-
distribution of matericls.
It wes reported towards the end of the nonth that
the Covornnent had dccided to postpone indefinitely the
est:blishnont of the Foroign Tr do Iinistry, which had
been proposed by the Abe C. binct last autumn.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to roport.
V. GOVERNTTENT FINANCE.
Govornment b-nds in tho mount of Yon 400,000,c00
were issued Guring Jonu ry. The r te of absorption was
cfficially reported cs being 91.8 per cent. This showed
© fevor: ble incre se fron thot of the previous month but
e decrocse as comp red witl. tho figure of l03.5 per cent
for the correspending menth of the year before. The cen-
traction of the note issue usually occurring after the
first of the yeer wes not so grest as hed been enticipated
und, by the end of the month, the amount of currency in
circulation was held still to reprosent an inflationery
trend, being Yen 3,277,000,000 n narking a Geclino of
only Yon 116,ooo,0o0 fr... the rcvious nonth end an in-
cronse of Yen 1,122,000,000 over the fiure on tho cor-
responding day in 1939.
VI. GENERAL ECONONIC AND FINACIAL COIMITIONS.
The uncertcinty prevailing in Jepanese business and
financial circlos during recent months was further in-
tonsifiod curing Janurry by a series of cevelopments
which added to the many perplexing problams facing the
nation.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.96)
-28-
netion. These incluied certain political quostions
takon up in the preceling soctions of this report --
the cownfell of the Abe C binct, the terninetion of
the Tre ty of Comnerce nd Nevigeticn with the United
States, the Asame Meru incicent and the broakdown of
the Soviet-Japanesu nog tictions over the borler de-
morcation -- ana ccononic ratters principally concerned
with the gravo shortcge of coal en electric power.
Power Shcrtage in Japan
During January there ceveloped a critical shortag:
of povor. During tho lotter helf of 1939, cifficulties
as regords the sunply of power in Jopan hed begun to
ppe'r, with sh-rt gos of clectricity ena coel being
experienced in voricus loc lities nd restrictiens of
their uso being inpesed. In the Konsri district a re-
strictien f 15 per cent vas rut in force on August 1,
1939. But fter tre beginning of the ye r the matter
repidly t ok on mejer proportions. The whole country
becano effocted; but the he vily industrinlized district
rouna Osek bore the main brunt of the power shortage.
Incrensingly more stringont restrictions of powor were
enforced in quick succossion there until, by the end of
the month, the electric pover had been curtailed from
45 to 53 por cent, with prospects of further reduction to
cone. In the lest days of the nonth it was announced
thet a completo broekdown in the Osake aron had berely
boen everted. The semi-officiel Jepan loctric Power
Generetion & Transmissicn Compeny, tho lorgest supplier
of olectricity in Japan and the company mainly involved,
wes

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
-29-
6
was seid to have scarcely en ugh corl left to produce
sufficient electricity to meet minimum domands.
Industry in Jepon, vhich is, to & very l rge ex-
tent, ependent upon clectric current for its power sup-
ply, was sovorely affectea. In the Kwensai industrial
district it was estimated thot the daily lossos due to
the production curtailnent were cmounting to Yen 1,0oo,00o.
The cotton, steple fitre ana ruyon textile, iren and
steel, nrchine tool, choricnl nnd fertilizer industrios
wore tho ht riest hit. IIany companics which were receiv-
ing loss than 50 per cent of thcir nornal supply of pow-
or hed to close down th ir plcnts cltogether on some deys,
end proauctirn was ero-tly curtriled, by as nuch as 70
por cent in extrome ceses. fuch domege wos lso being
couse? to frctory nd plont oquipment. Weges to lrbor
were lso boin ecrescd.
The inmedinte causes for this situ: tion were last
year's drought, which c ntinued unabated through January
and resultc in crastic reduction of water supply avail-
:ble for cloctric power generction, end tho lack of
sufficient corl supplies. This latter condition was at-
tributod to the loss of wcrkcrs from tho coal industry,
tho inability to obtcin sufficient coal mining machinery,
tho failure to lay adoquato plans last sunner for the
distribution of coal and the difficulty of transporting
ccel from the ninos by wator, because of the lack of suit
able shipping fncilities.
By

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
By the end of the month the problem of power supply
still remained in a critical state.*
The question arises whether the shortage in the power
supply can be attributed entirely or largely to the China
conflict. One fact is perfectly clear, and that is the in-
crease in Japan's industrial capacity which has taken place
during the past few years has run ahead of the power industry.
It might be argued that the concomitants of the conflict --
the diversion of the large part of the industrial capacity
of the nation to munitions and other non-productive indus-
tries and the over-rapid expansion of war industries -- have
brought about the power crisis. On the other hand, no one
seems to know for certain what portion of the increase in in-
dustrial capacity represents an expansion of war industries
and what portion is made up of the expansion in productive in-
dustries. The basic cause, in any event, appears to be the
failure to integrate the output of power -- including, of
course, adequate coal production -- with industrial capacity.
Comparatively few important official measures relat-
ing to industries, finance and trade were introduced during
January. The most important measure was the Raw Silk Dis-
tribution Control Law, providing for the regulation of the
prices of silk for domestic use and for the rcgulation of the
supply of silk for oxport and for domestic consumption. A
specific amount is to be allotted for domestic consumption,
a card system is to be applicd in the distribution of silk
to manufacturers, and a reduction is to be made in the num-
ber of the various kinds of silk textiles produced.
Prospects
*Report entitled "The Electric Power S.ortage in Western
Japan", dated February 3, 1940, from the American Consul-
ate at Osaka.
Dospatch no. 4494, February 13, 1940.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
Prospocts of more intensive official regulations and
of the Government policy directed towards deflation had a
deprcssing effoct on the stock market. Leading industrial
shares doclined sharply but a slight advance in the average
for all stocks, was recorded, due to the strength of mis-
cellaneous sharos. There was a sharp drop in the amount
involved in th: plans for the promotion of now business
enterprises, this being attribut à to sone oxtent to the
increasing difficulties of obtaining plant equipment end
raw materials. Living costs and conmodity prices contin-
ued upward, with the fcrmor rising, according to official
statistics, by approximatoly 2 per cent.
Foreign Trade
Preliminery figures for the foreign trade of the en-
tire Jananese Empire for the month of January were:
Exports:
Yen 236,262,000.
Imports:
Yen 279,736,000.
TLese figures marked a very sharp decline in both cate-
gories as compared with the previous month, representing
a 50 per cent drop in oxports and an approximate 20 per
cent decline in imports. However, both figures were larg-
er in value by 34 per cent in exports and 30 per cent in
imports over those for the corrosponding period of the
provious yoar. For the first time in several months an
unfavorable balance of trede, amounting to about Yen
43,O00,000 was recorded. Japanose trado with the Yen Bloc
also decreased in approximately the same percontago as
that for the trade of the Empire as a whole during the month
under review, but its exports to thrt erea were again double
the amount in valuo of its imports.
VII. ACTIVITIES

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
-32-
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AHERICAN COIT ERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREICN COLTTERCIAL TNTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.
000 000 000

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
2
DURING JANUARY 1940
No. Date
Subject
1
Jan, 2, 5 p.m.
Press comment on political conferences
of Premier Abe.
2
Jan. 2, 6 p.m.
Conclusion of provisional fisheries
agreement between Jepan and Soviet Union.
3
Jan. 4, 2 p.m.
Foreign Office communique concerning
the border demarcation committee,
Manchuria-Soviet Russia-Mongolia.
4
Jan. 5, 2 p.m.
Substance of a telegram sent hy the
British Ambassador to the Foreign Office
at London.
5
Jan. 6, 6 p.m.
Press comment on American-Japanese
relations.
6
Jan. 6, 7 p.m.
French notes to the Foreign Minister -
bombing of the Yunnan railway.
7
Jan. 8, noon
Acceptance of the President's invitation
to participate in the New York World's
Fair.
8
Jan. 8, 1 p.m.
Reply to representations concerning the
Swatow Maritime Customs.
9
Jan. 8, 2 p.m.
Reply to representations concerning the
Inspector General of the Chinese Maritime
Customs.
10
Jan. 8, 6 p.m.
Press comment on conversations between
the Foreign Minister and the Ambassador
assumed to be forthcoming.
11
Jan. 9, ll a.m. Proposed departure of Mr. valenza.
V12
Jan. ll, noon Internal political conditions in Jupan.
13
Jan. 1l, 2 p.m. Japanese and Italian relations following
a possible Japan-Soviet Union accord.
14
Jan. ll, 4 p.m. American Motion Picture Association.
15
Jan. 12, noon Interference with radio station KGEI.
16
Jan. 12, 4 p.m. Requisition for funds.
√ 17
Jun. 12, 6 p.m. Press speculation on.a premier to succeed
Premier Abe.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.
Date
Subject
18
Jan. 14, noon Rosignation of Premier Ate.
19
Jan. 14, 9 p.m. Admiral Yonai appointed Premier.
20
Jan. 15, 5 p.m. Organization of the Cabinet and comments
21
Jan. 15, 8 p.m. Relaxed control of domestic press censor.
ship and increased control of foreign
press despatches.
22
Jan. 16, 5 p.m. Domei despatch from Washington concernin
press interview of the Secretary of State
23
Jan. l6, 6 p.m. Completion of the new Cabinet and press
comment.
24
Jen. 17, 5 p.m. Request to extend facilities to permit
returning seamen from the wrecked Dai
Ichi Saiho Maru.
25
Jan. 17, 6 p.m. Tentative agreement on the Tientsin
situation.
26
Jan. 17, 7 p.m. Press interviews of Premier and Foreign
Minister.
27
Jan. 18, 2 p.m. Request of French Military Attaché to
visit Manila.
28 Jan. 18, 4 p.m. Reception of Ambassadors by the Foreign
Minister.
29
Jen. 18, 5 p.m. Representations concerning Cnristian and
Missionary Alliance, Lungchow, Kwangsi.
30
Jan. 19, 10 a.m. Delivery of wrecked seamen by U.S.S.
PENGUIN.
31 Jan. 19, 5 p.m. Reported proposals of Japanese authorities
to Wang Ching-wei.
32
Jan. 20, 1l a.m. Imperial Ordinance provided for treat-
ment of Auerican goods after expiration
of the treaty.
33
Jan. 20, noon
Delivery of wrecked seamen.
34
Jan. 21, noon
Press comment on Auerican-Jupanese
relations.
35
Jan. 22, 11 a.m. Cipher tables.
36
Jan. 22, 2 p.m. Detention of Mr. Young.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No.
Dute
Subject
37
Jan. 22, 6 p.m.
Stopping of the ASAMA MARU.
38
Jan. 22, 7 p.m.
Press comment American-Japanese
relations.
39
Jan. 23, 7 p.m.
ASAMA MARU case, telegrams of the
British Ambassador.
40
Jan. 24, 10 a.m.
Japanese pulp imports.
41
Jan. 24, 6 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Young.
42
Jan. 24, 7 p.m.
Representations concerning assaults on
Amer'can citizens in China.
43
Jan. 25, 3 p.m.
Proposed representations concerning
bombing of Yunnan railway.
44
Jan. 25, 5 p.m.
Congratulatory telegram to the Emperor
on February ll.
45
Jan. 25, 6 p.m.
Representations concerning American
Catholic Mission, Sinsiang.
46
Jan. 25, 7 p.m.
ASAMA MARU incident.
47
Jan. 25, 8 p.m.
ASAMA MARU incident - statement of the
British Ambassador to the press.
48
Jan. 25, 9 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Office on the
termination of the treaty.
49
Jan. 25, 10 p.m.
Text of Imperial Ordinance relating to
provisional treatment of American imports.
50
Jan. 25, 11 p.m.
Press comment - American-Japanese
relations.
51
Jan. 26, noon
ASAMA MARU incident.
52
Jan. 26, 4 p.m.
Representations concerning Hwa Hsing
wharf.
53
Jan. 26, 5 p.m.
Assignment of Japanese language officer
to reporting section.
54
Jan. 26, 6 p.m.
Request for instruction on taxation of
imports and exports by Swatow Rehabi-
litation Commission.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
4
No. Date
Subject
55, Jan. 26, 7 p.m.
Press comment on the lapse of the treaty
56
Jan. 27, 9 a.m.
Interference with Radio Station JND.
57
Jan. 28, 5 p.m.
ASAMA MARU case.
58
Jan. 28, 7 p.m.
French-Japanese relations.
59
Jan. 28, 8 p.m.
Proposed establishment of the new
central government under Wang Ching Wei
60
Jan. 29, noon
Reply of the Japanese Government to
representations concerning Swatow
Maritime Customs.
61
Jan. 29, 1 p.m.
Representations concerning egg trade
restrictions.
62
Jan. 29, 5 p.m.
Use of confidential codes.
63
Jan. 29, 6 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Young.
64
Jan. 30, 2 p.m.
Japanese press reports of statements
bearing on Japanese-American relations
by American public individuals.
65
Jan. 31, noon
Delivery of confidential documents to
Shanghai.
66
Jan. 31, 5 p.m.
Interview of the British Ambassador
with the Foreign Minister concerning
ASAMA MARU case.
67
Jan. 31, 6 p.m.
Representations concerning the bombing
of the Yunnen Rilway.
68
Jan. 31, 7 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Office con-
cerning the detention of Mr. Young.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.98)
DESPATCHES SENT TO THE DP:RTMENT
JANUARY 1940
No.
Date
Subject
4386
Janunry 4
Diplonatic Visc Report.
4387
Jenucry 4
Fifth quartor ex:minetion of J. Dixon
Edwards.
4388
January 6
Report on codos.
4389
Januery 6
Activities of Mcrgeret Gartnor, a Ger-
man nctional.
4390
Jenuary 9
British clain for daneges cnuscd by
Jopanese ermed forces in China.
4391
Janucry 9
Now York World's Frir, 1940.
4392
January 9
Inspector Genorrl of Chinese Mrritine
Custons.
4393
Jenuery 8
Trensnitting copy of noto to Jrponose For-
cign office regrding identific tion of
U. S. N vl nirereft engcged in noutrality
patrol.
4394
Jenurry 9
Fronch-Jenanese relctions: bonbing of the
Yunnan Reilwcy; protest.
4395
Jenury 8
Japenesc Antarctic clains.
4396
Jenuary 9
Transnitt 1 of photograph albums containing
pictures of the funerel of tho late Anbas-
sador Srito.
4397
Jenucry 9
Quarterly report of personnel residing in
Government-owned buiidings.
4398
January 9
Japanese restrictions on purchase of leaf
tobacco in Shantung: British representations
4399
January 10
Leave of absence of Mrs. Maeda . Playfair.
4400
January 10
Transmitting publications for the Library
4401
January 10
Japanese bombing of the American Church
Mission at Ichang.
4402
January 10
Japanese bombing of American Catholic
Mission at Kochow.
4403
January 10
Tapanese bombing of Standard-Vacuum Oil Com-
piny at Yiyang.
4404
Januery 10
Japanese Bombing of the Evangelical Luth-
eran Mission at Shasi.
4405
January 10
Japanese interference with British inter-
ests at Shanghai.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
No.
Date
Subject
4406
January 10
Pensions owed to Americen citizens by
former Chinese Eastern Railway.
4407
January 11
Neutrality Act -- use of American flag
by vessels of Foreign States.
4408
Jenuary 11
Relinquishment of citizenship by indivi-
duels of the Japanese race tho possess
duel nationality.
4409
Janucry 12
Detention of Luther Tucker.
4410
January 12
International Convention for the Safety
of Life at Sea.
4411
Januery 13
Ambassador's application for leave of ab-
sence.
4412
Januery 15
Interference by Japanese radio station
with reception of brocdcasts from American
radio station KGI.
4413
January 15
Leave of absence.
4414
Jenuary 15
Japanese roport of military training for
American Forcign Service Officers.
4415
Jenuary 15
Reported suggestion that exico act as
intormodiary in American-Japanoso trade.
4416
Jenuery 15
Chemical Construction Corporation: Yung
Li Chomiccl plent at Pukow.
4417
Januery 15
Trensmitting clipping -- Comments by Ir.
Tadaharu Mukai, Chairman of the Mitsui
Bussan Kabushiki Kaisha, concerning Japan-
ese-American trade rolstions end the out-
look for Japen's foreign tradc in 1940.
4418
Januory 16
Pross comments: Establishmont of formal
diplomatic relations betweon Australia and
the U.S., betweon Australia end Japan, and
the appointment of Mr. Clarence E. Gauss
as First American Minister to Australia.
4419
Janusry 16
Transmitting newspaper clipping entitled
"An Opon Lotter to Prosidont Roosevelt".
4420
January 16
Trensmitting newspaper clipping regarding
Japaneso-Amorican relations upon tho oxpira-
tion of the presont commercial treaty.
4421
January 16
Interference with Amorioan interests in
China: Linon shipments from Swatow.
4422
January 16
Anglo-Japanose convorsations with regard to
disposition of silver reserves at Tientsin.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
No.
Dato
Subjoct
4423
January 16
Seventh International Congress for the
Rheumatic Diseeses, 1940.
4424
Jamuary 16
French-Jupanese relations: bombing of
the Yunnan Railway; Japanese reply to
French protest.
4425
January 16
Roquest for vacuum cleaner parts.
4426
Jenuary 16
Transmitting pamphlet entitled "Tho Open
Door under New Order".
4427
January 16
Pross comment -- reported statement by the
Secretary, on Jenuary 15, 1940.
4428
January 16
Fingerprints of Foreign Service Officers
and Employees.
4429
January 17
Transmitting Text of Soviot-Japanoso Fish-
eries Protocol.
4430
January 16
Optional advanced Japanese languago:--
Vice Consul John K.. Emmerson.
4431
January 18
Inspection Mensures Enforccd at British
Conccssion, Tiontsin, by Japaneso Authori-
ties.
4432
January 18
Burning by Japanese Militery of English
Hethodist Mission, Chuchin, Shantung:
British Frotest.
4433
Janurry 18
Diplomatic Viso Report.
4434
January 23
Trensmitting Press Despatches of James R.
Young.
4435
Januery 23
Transmitting Copies of 1938 Annual Report
to the Loague of Nstions concerning South
Sees Arees under Japanese Mendate.
4436
January 24
Discriminatory Taxation of Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company Products at Kaifong and Tatung.
4437
January 25
Customs Administration et Shanghai: At-
tempted Interference by Japanese-Sponsored
Regimo. Reply to American Representations.
4438
January 24
Christien & Missionary Allianco, Lungchow,
Kwangsi.
4439
January 25
Transmitting Oaths of Office of Cerl H.
Boohringer, Secretary in the Diplomatic
Service and Vico Consul of Career of the U.S.
4440
January 25
Transmitting Press Clipping -- Visit of
Japunese Trede Envoy to Coutral and South
America.

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
No.
Dato
Subjcct
4441
Janucry 25
Trensmitting Piess Articlo Rogarding Japa-
nesc-A..ericen Relations efter Expiration
of Treuty of Co .crce and Navigation.
4442
Jenuary 25
Tr usmitti..., Press Clipping -- Mr. Bunshire
Suzuki's Interviow with President Roosevelt.
4443
January 26
Roquest for Hand Towels.
4444
January 26
Request for Cloth for Messenger's Uniforms.
4445
Jenuery 26
United Brethren Mission, Siulam, Chungshan,
Kwangtung.
4446
Jenuary ?6
Evangelical Lutheran Mission, Ichang, Hupeh.
4447
January 26
Evangelicel Lutheran Mission, Shasi, Hupeh.
4448
Januery 26
Transmitting Translεtion of Imperial Ordi-
nance Relating to the Provisional Treatment
of Imports of Amcrican Origin aftor the Ex-
piration of the Trecty of Commorcc and Navi-
gation.
4449
Janucry 26
Japonese Assrults on American Citizons in
China.
4450
January 27
Diplonetic visn Report.
4451
Jonuary 29
Jepenese Interforence with the Property of
the Americen C-tholic Mission, Sinsiang,
Honan,
4452
Janucry 29
German Seamen Removed from H.S. Asama Iaru
hy British Cruiser.
4453
Janucry 29
Occup tion by the Jopanese Military of the
Hwa Shing "herf, Pootung, Shanghai.
4454
January 29
Egg Trade Restrictions.
4455
Januery 29
Requesting Permission for U.S.S. Penguin
to Visit Saipan to Deliver Crew of rocked
Dai Ichi Saiho Maru.
4456
Jenuary 29
Chinese Maritimo Customs, Swatow.
4457
January 30
Transmitting Decomber Politicel Report.
4458
Jenuary 31
Dosignation of Couricrs.
####

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION O
GJUN 141940
EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
JUN 111940
THEFOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF!
T.kyo, Mareh 27, 1940.
No. 4611.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
SUBJECT: REPORT OF C DITICNS L JAPAN DURI G THE
MONTH OF FLBRUARY 1940.
DIVISION OF
Divisigu of
EUROPFAN AFFAIRS
R
JUN 11 940
NVISION OF
NAP40
894.00
COPIES SENT TO
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
OATE
The Honorable
Cofy in FE
 Secretary of State
No
2
mashington.
Grade
For
IUS▲
8
MLD
6
O
0
P.R./147
no. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the nonor to tranamit
norewith the E.bassy' montnly re ort on conditions in
Japan for the month of Fehruary 1940.
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Respectfully yours,
MAY 1940
em
Joseph C. Grew
FILF
Amarican ibassador
800
JE:mg
Enclosyre: Report no. 161.
In quintuplicate to the Depertment.
Copies to Brbassies at Peipine, Chungring, Moscow.
Copiec to Consulates General et Sna elai, Lukden, Harbin,
Seou1 and Tokyo.
Copies to Cons lates et Dairen, csaka, Lote, Nacasaki,
Nagoya, Tai oku, Yokohama.
Cop to Com.ander-in-Chief of tie U.S. aslatic Fleet.
F/FG
/ coyf
419

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.94)
No. 161.
REPORT OF CCNDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING
TIE HOFT. CF FEBRUARY 1940.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X
ANDSUMMARY
pages
I.
RELATIONS TITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) General relations
1-8
(b) Representations made by the
Embassy in February
9,10
(c) Replies from the Foreign Office to
representations made by the Embassy 10-12
II. RELATIONS ITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Great Britain
1.
ASAMA MARU incident
13
2.
Representations made by the
British Embassy during February
and replies to previous
representations
14
(b) China
1.
Military operations
15,16
2.
General relations
17-20
(c) France
1. Bombing of the Haiphong-
Yunnan Railway
20,21
2.
Franco-Soviet trade agreement
22
(d) Soviet Russia
22,23
(e) Netherlands
23,24
(f) Latin America
24,25
Argentina; Uruguay
26
(g) Spain
27
(h) Rumania
27
(i) General international relations
27,28
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a) Diet
29-31
(b) Official price control and regula-
tion of national economy
31-33
(c) Army
34
IV.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATTON
34
35
VI.
ECONOMIC AND FINAICILL CONDITIONS
35-41
Electric power and coal situation
35
Rice situation
37-39
Fertilizer
39
Foreign trade
40
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ALRICAN COM ERCIAL INTERESTS 41
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CONHERCIAL INTERESTS
41
IX.
LABOR
41, 42
X.
MISCELLINEOUS
42

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) General Relations.
The month of Felruary was marked by no new outstand-
711.94
ing developments in Japanese-A" rican relations, but in
Japan, through the Dict session and through the press, a
vast amount of concern was manifested over the current
situation and future eventualities in the relations be-
tween the two countries.
In the Diet, insistent demands were made for an enun-
ciation and clarification of the Government's policies and
stand on the general and specific points at issue with the
United States, primarily as they related to Cnina. Iu re-
ply to one such interpellation the Fureign Minister stated
on Fubruary 2 that the establishment of close economic
ties between Juyan, "Manchukuo", and Cuina does not mean
the oustine of economic activities of foreien countries;
rather, on the contrary, there will remain tremendously
broad fields of economic expansion for tlose countries.
Tose countries, he added, appear to fail to understand
this by confusing the effects of military operations and
strategical considerations on their rights and interests
in Caina with Japan's policy in regard to the "row order
in Eust Asia".
Op the same occasion he reiterated t'e pronouncement
made by the Government in Ja.:uary that the Government would
continue to make ever" effort to arrange for a new trade
treaty wit!: the United States, stating, however, that it
was felt that this would require considerable time. In
then referring to the uneasiness in Japu.. over the treaty-
less situation he stated that the "uneasiness" eed not be
asgravated and that it was, in that connection, of utmost
importance

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
importance that Japan and the United States deal with
the situation calmly and circumspectly.*
O February 7th, in reply to a demand made that
Japan's announcement to reopen the Yuugtze should be
immediately withdrawn since it had been made, but with-
out success, to conciliate the Uited States, Mr. Arita
stated that the opening of the Yangtze was not made on
a bargaining basis as a factor in the negotiations for
a new commercial treaty and that, furthermore, since
the announcement was made unilaterally, Japan had no
obligation whatever to open the River.**
T.e matter of denunciation of the Nine-Power Trea-
ty "will require still further consideration", the For-
eign Minister is reported to have stated on the same day.
This reply was made in response to a statement by a Diet
member that the Treaty should be denounced on the grounds
that conditions had changed and that that treaty was the
Versailles Treaty of the F:i Esst by which other nations
sought to bind Jupan.*** On Feoruary 9, Mr. Arita stated
that the Treaty was unsuited to the present situation but
professed that it was not certain whether its abolition
would hasten or rinder the establishment of a "ew order
in East Asia". Or: Fubruary 28, again referrine to the
Nine-Power Treaty, he declared that, contrary to the
contention of the U..ited States, "Japan does not admit
that it has ignored the Treaty, and that if an attempt
is made by force of arms to compel Japan to recognize
this contention, a real problem would arise"(Sio).****
Ou
*Eubassy' telegram no. 73, February 2, 6 p.m.
Embassy'. telegram no. 99, February 8, 9 p.m.
Eubassy'. telagram no. 125, February 17, 2 p.m.
**Embassy's telegram no. 90, Fabruary 7, 7 p.m.
Fubassy' telegram no. 99, Fobruary 8, 9 p.m.
***Eubassy's telegram no. 90, Fubruary 7, 7 p.m.
****Eubassy'. telegram no. l47, February 29, 4 p.m.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
On February 16, in answering a number of questions
concerning the possibility of an Anerican embargo against
Japan, the Fureign Minister expressed the opinion that
for various reasons Japan may safely assume that it will
be a considerable length of time before any embargo mea-
sures matarialize, but that Japan must be on guard against
such action. lie felt that the postponement by the United
States Sonate of consideration of this problem was due to
the recent changes of the Japanese attitude toward the
United States and to developments in the European situa-
tion".*
Tue Prime Minister, replyine to an inquiry concerning
Japan's attitude in case the United States continued "in
its unfriendly attitude", declared that Juan does not
wish to interpret A~crican actions as having malicious
intent, and considers thit the United States continues to
interfere with Japan because of a lack of understanding
of the true intentions of this country, "but that should
the Uaited States persist in oppressing Jupan, or in in-
terfering with its actions, Jupan will be fully prepared
to cope with the situation"**(sic)
Speakine in the same connection, on Folruary 28, the
Foreign Minister is reported to have stated in part that
even though the United States opposes on all fronts the
establishment of a new order in East Aoia, Jupan will con-
fidently and resolutely carry on its mission. He added
that the situation had not, however, reached such a stage.
Peuding problems between the United States and Japan which
were capable of settlement were not to be left unsettled,
he
Erbassy'. telegram no. 125, Fosruary 17, 2 p.m.
**Embassy's telegram no. 99, February 8, 9 p.m.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
he stated, and would be handled as separate problems
and not employed to ottain advantages in dealing with
other problems.*
O. Fouruary 14, the Furiien Minister made a state-
ment in the Diet regarding cases of damage to American
property and of interference with Anurican rights and
intorests in Cüina that were pending between the United
States and Japan. He declared that, of the cases made
the subject of protests to the Fcreign Orfice, 21o still
remained unsettled. H then dwelt at some length on the
cases of injury to Arerican lives and property through
bombing and other activities of the Japanese military and
he mentioned merely in passing the existence of those in-
volving the restriction or prevention of the exercise of
A'crican rights. His explanation concerning the causes
of the incidents and the Ju anese position as regards
their disposal was in much the same vein as that set forth
in the exposition of the Ju anese views made to the Au-
bassador by Aumiral Nomura, the then Plime Minister, last
autumn. (hcf-rince: Pulitical Ropcrt for Ducember 1939)**
On Fouruery 2l, the Forcion Office released a statement
listing twenty-one cases as having recently been amicably
settled.***
On Feuruary 10 the Nav, Milicter was questioned re-
Earding Japa'a uaval preparations in the face of the "i-
cantio" Aorican warship buildine program. He stated in
reply that there was no cause for worry concerning Japunese
national
*Embassy's talegram no. 147, Fobruary 29, 4 p.m.
**Embassy's telogram no. l07, February 11, 6 P.m.
Embassy's telegram no. 119, February 14, 8 p.m.
***Embassy's tolegram no. 133, February 22, 2 p.m.
Embassy's telegram no. 134, Fabruary 22, 3 p.m.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
national naval defenses, as Japan's naval program had
been linkod with American naval building plans and was
sufficient for the time being. He added that there had
alreaáy been taken into consideration the proposed modi-
fied increase in the American navy of 21 ships of 160,000
tons, and that the Japanese Government was content for
the moment to watch the situation.*
In statements made by the spokesmen of bot: the Navy
Ministry and the Foreign Ministry, it was declared, indi-
rectly in reply to the United Statos Government's repre-
sentations c ncerning the bombing by Japanese air forces
of the Haiphong-Yunnan Railway, that the Japanese attacks,
dictated by military necessity, would not ccase unless
and until that ruilwa ceased to be employed as a route
for the supply of war materials to the Chungking Govern-
ment.
The spokesman of the Foreign Office issued two state-
ments during the month: on Februer: 9 he said that the
Japanese Government would view with grave concern the
proposed loan of twenty million dollars to the Chuneking
regime if the loan should be allocated for the purchase
of army supplies, or if the loan were used in aiding the
rehabilitation of the Chungking regime. The other state-
ment, on February 19, characterized as a dark cloud al-
vays hoverine over Ja,anese-American relations America's
recurrent consideration of embargoes on exports to Japan
and declared that, if laws for the application of embar-
goes were enacted, relations botween Jupan and the Uited
States
*Embassy s təlegram no. 106, February 11, 2 p.m.
Embassy's telegram no. 140, February 25, 6 p.m.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
States would be brought to a "vory surious" point.
The Japanese press manifested apprehension and
indignation* towards the United States. In nowspaper
discussions of relations witn the United States, wherein
the trends of Dit interpellations and of the statements
made by tho spokesmen of the Government ministries were
mainly followed, th press characterized the United States
as being "menacing and intimidating" towards Japan: that
the United Stites seemed disposed to resort to prussure
i the form of mbargoes to prevent the fulfilment by
Japan of its aims as uxpresscd in tne formula of the
"new order in East Asia", whic. the United States did
not intond to recognizo.
The question of umb reoes** against exports to
Jap:n was likened to the sword of Damoclos, which re-
mained a constunt trreat to this country, becauso Japan
hus been dependent to cuch a large uxtent on trade with
the United Stutes.
The proposed Anerican credit loan of twenty million
dollars to the Chinese Governmont was openly assailed
as being a political and cconomic move by the United
States t, bolster up that Govornment, notwithstanding
that a new regime in China was about to be established
with Japan's full support and that Japan was determined
to destroy the Chiane Kai-shek Government.
The proposed increase in the United States Naval
oxpansion program was looked upon as being ver likely
directed sfsinst Japar and was represented as anothor
monacing
*E,tassy's telegram no. 99, Fobruary 8,9 p.m.
**Ribassy's tolegran no. l04, Fabruary 9, 9 p.m.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
menacine move toward this country.
There were also received with apparently consider-
able credence reports of Japanese pross correspondents
abroad thet the President's efforts to initiete steps
for the restoration of peace in Europe throuen the mis-
sion of Mr. Sumner Welles were partly motivated by des-
iro to place the United States, with the cooperation of
England and France, in a position to intervene in the
Far East. It was areued thit the United States felt that
if the European hostilitics were lone protractud, Jupan
might become too strongly entronched in China to be forced
out whon the other countries at last had their hands free
to deal vith Japan.*
The press confidently asserted that Japi: was ready
to cope with the so-callod "unfriendliness" of the United
States and that no ctions on its part would induce Japan
to deviate from its present course on the Asiatic conti-
nent. Retaliatory measures were spoken of to meet pres-
sure from the United States. At the same time emphasis
was laid upon the necessity of devisine measures to free
Japan of its oconomic dependency on the United States, and
in this cornection there were widely plaved up the Govern-
ment's plans to increase Jupan's trade with Lat in A.crica,
wit the South Sea territories, and with Russia. (See
Sections hereunder on Latin Auerica and General Iaternat-
ional Relations).
In press and parliamentary discussions throughout the
month, the statements made regarding the alleged antagon-
istic intentions of the U..ited Stites and the remonstrances
against
*Imbassy's despatch no. 4549, February 29, 1940.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
against the United States were generally framed in ob-
jective language. A tone of restraint and caution was
evident, and, echoing the remarks of the Foreign Minis-
ter, it was hold thit all unnecessary friction betweon
the two countries should be avoided. Concurrently with
protestations of Japan's unshakable will in pursuing its
fixed policies there was that undercurrent of decided un-
easiness concerning Japarese-americen relations mentioned
by t'e Diet interpellators. This focling, which reflect-
ed the uncertainty as to further difriculties Japan might
have to uncounter, was attended by obvious concern over
the capacity of the country to neet any positive action
by the United States that would affect Japan's economy.
Noto was taken and mention made of factors which might de-
ter the Uaited States from taking any overt actions. In
this regard and in connecticn with the Foreign Minister's
statement on Februury 16* that developments in the European
situstion provided one reason for postponine study of Ameri-
can propossls to enact embargoes cgainst Japen, fuli publi-
city was eiven to Mr. Walter Lippmann's open letter of Jan-
uary 31 to Senator Arthur H. Vandenberg, stressing the ser-
iousness of the Far Eastern question and warnine against
an "unpardonable blunder" n the part of the Uited Ststes
of becoming involved in the Orient without first being ab-
solutel" certain of its security in the Atlantic area.
(b)
*Embassy's telegram no. 125, February 17, 2 p.m.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
(b) Representations made by the Embassy
In February.
The Embassy made representations to the Foreign
Office in February in the following instances:
1. In regard to the imposition of import and export
taxes by the local Japanese-sponsored régime at Swatow
and the continued refusal of the Japanese authorities to
permit the Chinese Maritime Customs to function, and
noting that, nevertheless, that port had been opened to
trade by Japanese merchants.*
2. In regard to the blockade instituted by Japanese
authorities between the International Settlement at
Kulangsu, Amoy, and the mainland, and the relation of
this action, as a resort to coercive methods, to the
Japanese demand that the Kulangsu municipality appoint
additional constables to the municipal police force.**
3. In regard to the imposition of the illegal ex-
change and export controls at Chefoo on lace and em-
broideries exported to the United States, and in regard
to the general interference with and discrimination against
American trade in North China through the continued en-
forcement by the Japanese-sponsored authorities of exchange
and export controls.***
4.
*Department's telegram no. 55, February 7, 7 p.m.;
Embassy's telegrams no. 97, February 8, 7 p.m., and
no. 101, February 9, 5 p.m.;
Embassy's despatches
no. 4472, February 10, 1940, and 4524, February 24,1940.
Department's telegram no. 39, January 29, 7 p.m.;
Embassy's telegrams no. 110, February 12, 6 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch no. 4508, February 17, 1940.
李丰丰
Department's telegram no. 56, February 9, 4 p.m.;
Imbassy's telegram no. l12, February 13, 7 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch no. 4487, February 14, 1940.

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
4. In regard to the release from custody of Marcelo
Tan, a citizen of the Philippines who was arrested by the
authorities of the Municipal Council at Kulangsu upon a
warrant countersigned by the Japanese Consul General.*
5. In regard to regulations instituted by the Ja-
panese army and navy for pilotage on the Pearl River, in
impairment of American rights and in violation of treaty
provisions with China.**
6. In regard to a special municipal tax imposed by
the Canton authorities upon petroleum products in contra-
vention to treaty rights with China and regulations : of
the Chinese National Government.***
(c) Replies from the Foreign Office to
representations made by the Embassy.
The Embassy received during the month of February
responses from the Foreign Office to its representations
in the following instances:
1. In reply to the Embassy's representations of De-
cember 1, 1939, regarding the interference of Japanese
authorities at Peiping with employees of the National City
Bank of New York.****
2.
*Department's telegram no. 64, February 14, 7 p.m.;
Embassy's telegram no. 132, February 21, 1 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch no. 4516, February 23, 1940.
**Department's telegram no. 31, February 14, 6 p.m.;
Embassy's telegram no. 143, February 27, 3 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch no. 4545, February 28, 1940.
***Department's telegram no. 70, February 26, 4 p.m.;
Embassy's telegram no. 148, February 29, 9 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch no. 457i, March 11, 1940.
****Embassy's despatch no. 4460, February 3, 1940.

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
2. In reply to the Embassy's representations of
June 16, 1939, concerning interference by Jepanese
agencies with American interests in the North China
trade in furs and skins. It was stated in the reply
that in so far as circumstances permit, facilities were
being provided for the transportation of furs anō skins
belonging to American merchants; that the inspection
procedure in North China had been simplified; and that
native and foreign companies dealing in furs in Inner
Mongolia were being equally treated.*
3. In reply to the Embassy's representations of
January 26, 1940, with regard to interference with ac-
tivities of American firms in the egg trade in the Yangtze
Valley. It was stated therein that the contention that
a Japanese monopoly in the egg trade business had been
established was based on a misunderstanding, and that an
agreement regarding this question had been reached be-
tween Japanese and American interests concerned at
Shanghai and was hoped shortly to be put inio effect.**
4. In reply to representations made on December 16,
and December 27, 1939, regarding the anti-American agita-
tion at Chen-liu, Honan Province, the interference with
the activities of and damage to the property of the Free
Methodist
*Embassy's despatch no. 4497 of February 16, 1940.
**Embassy's despatch no. 450l, of February 16, 1940.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Methodist Mission at Chen-ltu. It was contended in this
reply that the agitation at Chen-liu did not partake of
any anti-American character, that the damage iore to the
Free Methodist Mission was slight and that no untoward
interference was underteken with the act vities of the
Mission.*
5. In reply to the Embassy's representations of
February 10, 1940, concerning the blockade of the Inter-
national Settlement at Kulangsu, Amoy. This reply held
that the blockade was instituted solely as a police
measure, and moreover had been lifted 6n January l8th.**
II. RELATIONS
*Embassy's despatches no. 4529 of February 26, 1940,
and no. 4530 dated February 26, 1940.
**Embassy's despatch no. 4487 of February 14, 1940.

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
II. RELATIONS VITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
Great Britain.
ASAMA MARU incident.
It will be recalled that at the end of January nego-
tiations were still being carried on between the Foreign
Office and the British Embassy with regard to the sclution
of the incident rising out of the stopping of the ASAMA
MARU by a British cruiser and the removal therefrom of
twenty-one Germen seamen. Following the exchange of
several further communications between the two governments
the incident was settled on February 5. Both countries
continued officially to maintain their positions--the
Japanese Government contending that the British action was
not justifiable in international law, referring in support
of its position to the Declaration of London, the TRENT
case, et cetera, and holding to its formal request for the
return of all of the twenty-one Germans; and the British
Government maintaining its stand that it was "fully en-
titled under international law to remove the German offi-
cers and ratings"--but the British "as an earnest of their
desire to reach an amicable settlement of the case" agreed
to release to the Japanese nine of the men seized from the
ASAMA MARU, and the Japanese for their part undertook not
to embark on Japanese vessels citizens of a belligerent
nation who are embodied in its armed forces or suspected
to be so.*
2.
*Embassy's telegrams no. 77, February 3, 2 p.m.;
no. 85, February 5, 8 p.m.; no. 94, February 8, 4 p.m.;
no. l16, February 14, 5 p.m.; Embassy's despatohes no.
4463 of February 3, 1940, and no. 4504 of February 16, 1940.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
14-
2. Representations made by the British Embassy
during February, and replies to previous
representations.
On February 2l thc British Embassy in a memorandum
made representations to the Foreign Office in regard to
the bombing by Japanese aircraft of the Haiphong-Yunnan
Railway.*
On February 10 the British Embassy addressed a note
along lines similar to those of the American representa-
tions in regard to the imposition by the local Japanese-
sponsored authorities at Swatow of taxes on imports and
exports.**
In a note dated January 17, 1940, the Foreign Office
replied to the British representations of December ll,
1939, concerning the continued closure to foreign shipping
other than Japanese of the port of Swatow. In this reply
it was stated that the Japanese authorities consider for
reasons of strategic necessity that restrictions must
still be imposed upon the passage to and from Swatow of
persons, goods, and shipping; that the Japanese had
permitted certain firms of their own nationality to handle
trade in necessary goods at the port which, because of the
existence of extraterritorial rights which would have pre-
vented strict supervision thereof, could not be entrusted
to third-power companies; but that the Japanese Govern-
ment intended to reopen the harbor as soon as improvement
in conditions so warranted.***
(b)
*Embassy's telegram no. 138, February 23, 7 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch no. 4538, of February 27, 1940.
**mmbassy's despatch no. 4524, of February 24, 1940.
***Embassy's despatch no. 4466 of February 5, 1940.

=== Page 116 === (confidence 1.00)
-15-
(b) China.
1. Military operations.*
It will be recalled that at the end of January the
Japanese were engaged in a large-scale drive wastward
from Paotow in Suiyuan Province. During the firs cays
of February the advance was vigorously pushed, and on
February 3, Wuyuan was captured, followed by ths occupa-
tion of Linho on the next day, and Shanpa on February 5.
In an eight- to nine-day period Japanese forces had ad-
and
vanced some hundred fifty miles and had gone as far west
as the border of Ninghsia Province. It was announced
later in the month that on February 15 Japanese forces
were withdrawn from the entire Wuyuan area for reasons
that were not disclosed in this country.
In South China, the Japanese offensive launched at
the end of January, reportedly to meet a counter-offensive
of a large number of Chinese troops on Nanning, was
brought during the first days of February, according to
Japanese accounts, to a successful conclusion. In the
Nanning-Pinyang-Yuming area, by February 8, the Japanese
claimed to have completely routed the Chinese troops after
severe fighting. Like the withdrawal in the Suiyuan cam-
paign, however, after that date the Japanese forces were
reported to have retired to their positions held previous
to the campaign just completed. Whether the withdrawal
was deliberate or forced by Chinese pressure could not
be ascertained.
Other
*Prepered with the assistance of the Office of the
Military Attaché.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Other fighting occurred in Shansi in the, apparently,
monthly clean-up campaigns of that province; in Hupeh in
continuation of the fighting there that started in January;
in the eastern end of the Shantung Peninsula; in rather
heavy and indecisive fighting near Yuhu in Anhwei Province
against a fairly large-scale Chinese offensive aimed at
cutting the Yangtze River at that point; and also against
several offensives by sizable Chinese forces in Kiangsu
Province. There were the usual sporadic cempaigns against
guerrilla forces and regular Chinese army units in occu-
pied territory. Little aerial activity was reported
during the month.
It was announced thet the Japanese hać successfully
organized so-called 'Chinese Peace and Salvage Corps"
which were beiig used in sereral places, particularly
South China, in operations ageinst the forces of the
National Government. Particular note in this effect was
taken of these Japanese-sponsored Chinese troops in opera-
tions around Chao-an in Fukien Province.
Almost daily publicity was given in Japan, with murked
flourish, to the alleged dissension and fighting between
the Communist forces and the adherents of the KuomintanE.
Reports to this effect asserted that several severe battles
on a large scale had occurred between the two factions.
It was intimated that there might be a disruption of Chinese
resistance to the Japanese through these internecine con-
flicts. Despite the seriousness of the dissension, however,
no tangible signs were to be noted of any diminution of the
Chinese opposition to the Japanese military force.
2.

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
2. General relations.
Much comment appeared in Japan during the month
under review concerning the establishment of a proposed
new central régime for China. It was reported that
arrangements were steadily maturing for the inauguration
at an early date of the régime with its capital at Nanking.
According to the reports, the régime would be headed by a
central political council under the leadership of ang
Ching-wei, and the Eovernment under this council would
absorb the Nanking Renovation Government &nd the Peiping
régime. A large amount of eutonomy would be éiven to the
North China area while the Inner Mongolian area would be
recognized as an almost entirely autonomous unit wherein
Japan would have special interest. No official announce-
ment wea made concerning the contents of the peace terms
agreed upon between  an Chine-wei and the Japanese Govern-
ment at the end of December last year, although they were
reported to heve been revealec to the Liet in a secret
session on February 15. It is to be noted, however, that
two deserters from the Tane group published in Fong Kong
on January 18 what purported to be a Chinese version of
the agreement, and which in effect gave Japan what amounted
to almost complete control and domination over most of the
occupied arees of Cri.a.* The terms set forth in that
version were denled as being correct by ang Ching-wei;

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
To a pronouncement made by the Premier that Japan
would give "whole-hearted support and cooperation" to
the new régime, there was acded a statement on February 16
by the Director of the China Affairs Board thet the
Japanese army would guide the projected ang Cl.ins-wei
régime in military, political, and economic affairs for
some time after its final organization.' (sic). The
Finance Minister, on February 5, reported to the Diet that
it was expected that there would be established in central
China a new central bank which would issue currency for
that region, but that the Feceral Reserve Bank notes would
continne to be the medium of exchange in Forth China.
In his address made at the opening session of the
Diet, the Foreign Minister stated that Japan will respect
the rights and interests of third powers in China, and
welcomed foreign investments there as lone as they are of
a purely economic character.
As regarês Japan's policy concerning the Chinese
National Government, the ar Minister reiterated before
the Diet the often-announced statement thet Japan was
determined to crush and annihilate the Chiang Kai-shek
régime. Noteworthy, howevor, were certain statements made
by the Premier in the Diet on February 7, in which he said
that if the Kuomintang should "reorganize itself and change
its character' it could be tolerated. The same, he said,
was true of Chiang Kai-shek. He further stated that, al-
though Japan would have no dealine's with the Chungking
Government, he hoped that it would disband and join the
now rógime.*
on
*Eabassy's telegram no. 98, February 8, 8 p.m.

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
On February 7 the Prime Minister stated before the
Diet that Japan had no intention for tie present to in-
voke belligerent rights in the China conflict,
The so-called basic policy for the settlement of the
China affair was stated by the Foreign Minister in his
address before the opening session of the Diet 'to join
forces with a new China which shall be purged of all anti-
Japanese and pro-Comintern influences, to unite with China
in establishing a new order in Last Asia, and to realize
neighborly amity, common defense against the Comintern,
and full economic coopertion.' In further elaborating
on this statement on Februery 9 he added that the "new
order" envisaged full cooperation in every way between
Japan, "Manchukuo", and China with each retaining its in-
dependence and individuality. In other statements
Cabin t ministere reiterated the intention of Japan to
adhere to the principles laid down ir the Konoye statement
and especiclly emphasized the fact that no indemnity or
territory would be claimed from China.
Inquiries were often heard in the Diet and in the press
concerning the continued resistance of the Chinese National
Governnent,--how much longer that resistance would be main-
tained and how the hostilities were to be termineted. The
War Minister informed the Diet that Chinese resistance was
gradually weakening despite the fect that the Chiang Kai-
shek Government still retained administretion over all
areas not occupied by the Japanese. The country was further
encouraged

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
encouraged to believe that the establishment of the new
régime would greatly draw the strength out of end the
allegiance of the Chinese masses away from the Chungking
Government. From the statement of the Prime Minister
referred to above aná from other comments of Government
offigials, the country was given to understand that the
Chinese National Government would eventually either sue
for peace, disband, or merge with the new régime, and
that with such developments would come the end of the
"incident."
(c) France
1. Bombing of the Haiphong-Yunnan Railway.
Continuing the raids conducted in the latter part
of last year and during January, the Japanese air forces
again bombed on several occasions during February the
Haiphong-Yunnan Reilway. During the air raid that
occurred on February 1 a train was hit and more than
fifty persons, including five French, were killed.
In this ara three subsequent raids Japanese planes
were reported to have flown over Indo-China, and on
one occasion to have dropped bombs in French Territory.
The French mbassy lodged strong protests with the
Foreign Office concerning these incidents.
A

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
A rosponse to his representations received by
the French Ambassador on February 5 from the Foreign
Minister stated in substance that so long as the
reilway continued to be a transit route of arms supply
the attacks on it would be continued, and it was
added that the cessation of supplies to the Chungking
Government over the reilway, to be fulfilled by the
French before the Japanese attacks would be stopped,
should anply not only to arms end ammunition but
besides to other articles which the French Government
itself had prchibited in time of war. The Japanese
Government contended that even though no declaretion
of war had been made, large-scale hostilities have
taken place in China ano therefore France should
recognize the "reality' in dealing with the situation.
2.
*Ymbassy's telegrams no. 86, February 6, 11 a.m.;
no. 91, February 7, 9 p.m.5 no. 93, February 8, 3 p.n.;
no. 102, February 9, 7 p.m.; no. 123, February 17, noon;
despatches nos. 4470, February 7; 4478, February 10;
and 4507, February 17, 1940.

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
2. Franco-Japanese Trade Agreement.
Some publicity was given in the press during the month
under review to the question of renewal of the Franco-
Japanese trade agreement vhich was to expire on March 15.
It was held that difficulvies might be expectec in this
regard because France needs munitions and othel commodities
required for military purposes, such as calcium, industrial
salts, and iron ore, which had made up a large part of
French and Indo-Chinese exports to Japan, because France
in its war-time eoonomy was limiting importation of many
commodities offered by this country, and because un-
favorable reaction in France to the bombing of the Yunnan
railway was militating against the conclusion of an agree-
ment with this country. It is to be noted that the press
spoke in laudatory terms of France's having strictly lived
up to the present agreement, having even after the outbreak
of the European war "allowed exports of munitions to Japan
to continue."
(a) Soviet Russia.
The spokesman of the Foreign Office issued an announce-
ment on February 2 that two commissions, one to deal with
the demarcation of the border in general and the other
with border disputes, had been agreed upon between Japan
and Russia, presumably to take the place of the negotiations
that had broken down in these regards during January. The
Foreign Minister later statea that plans merely were being
drafted to set up the commissions.*
There
*mbassy's telegram no. 96, February 8, 6 p.m.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
There were no further developments in Japanese-
Soviet relations. Refarence made to tlose relations in
the Diet elicited veeue replies from ministers to the
effect that there were many matters calling for adjust-
ment between the two countries, thet Janan must con-
tinually keep a vigil on tre Soviet Union, but that
there were hopes of settlin the specific differences
with Russia.*
The Foreign Minister added in his remarks
on the sub ject that there was no inconsistency in the
efforts to acjust relations "while adhering to the anti-
Coninterr pact, which is not directeo against the 3oviet
Union.
(e) Nethcrlancs
A stetement was released by the Foreign Office on
756.94
February 12 thet the Japanese Minister at The Hague had
given notice to the  etherlancs Government of the abro-
gation of the Dutch-Japaneso Treaty of Arbitration and
Conciliation which had been entered into on ugust 12,
1935. This action, accordin to the anouncement, was
made for the purpose of seeking a revision of the pro-
visions of the treaty releting to t he Fermanent Court of
International Justice confcimably with Japan's withdrawal
from the LeaEue of Nations, and that to tlis end the necessary
six months' notice before August 12, 1940, was being siven.
The desire was expressed for the conclusion of a new treaty.
Attendart upon this notice and correlated with it
was a feeling aroused in certain quarters that, as Japan
had
*Imbassy's telegram no. 9t,' February 8, 6 p.m.

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
-24-
had presented to the Dutch Government at the same time
certain desiderata for a trade agreement covering ex-
tensive reciprocal commercial and trade concessions be-
tween the Natherlaids Indies and Japan, Lanchukuo',
and China, it was the intention of Japen that signifi-
cance of a minatory character should be attached by the
Netherlands to the notice of abrogation.: It was felt
that Japanese pressure was directec et obtainir a
privileged position in respect of sources of supplies in
the Dutch possessions in the event of an embarfo being
laid down against Japen by the United States.*
(f) Latin America
It wes disclosed during the month under review that
efforts are being made by the Japanese Governme.t to
bring about an expansion and increase in Japanese trade
with Latin Anerics. Negotiations for trade agreements on
a bilateral basis were announced as contemplated or
already under way with Argentina, Chile, Colombia,
Venezuela, Pareguay, anc Mexico. Moreover, trade missions
from several of the South American countries have been
invitec to come to Japan in connection with these negotiations.
It will be recellad (Reference foregoing section
herein concerning rel:tions  ith the United States) that
every effort was to be made to offset in Japan's foreign
trede with other parts of the world possible economic
pressure by the United States. The Government, it was
explained
*Embeamy's telegrams no. 120, Februery 25, 11 a.m.,
no.. 168, March 12, 3 p.m.; and no. 170, March 12, 5 p.m.

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
explained, was searching for sources in Central and South
America for such indispensable raw materials as cotton,
petroleum, scrar iron, non-ferrous ores and metals, et
cetera, for which Japan has so heavily depended upon the
United States in the past. In return Japen hoped to
build up markets of appreciable size for its exports.
Much stress was laid on the favorable opportunity present
at the moment to execute this program by Japan's taking
up the prominent positions formerly held by Great Britain
and Germany in the markets in question and relinquished
by those two countries due to tl.e uropean war.
Despite this interest anc emphesis upon Japan's trade
with Latin America, it may be notec that the present
impertance of that trade to the country is quite meagre
and only with the most optimistic view taken as regards
its immediate future possibilities can it be expected to
be developed to such a point where it can be of primary
importance to Japan's foreign trade. For, it will be
noted, that although the trade has increased since the low
point reached a decece ao, it amounted to less than four
per cent of Japan's totel foreign trade last year and was
in v alue approximately Yen 230,000,000 as against approxi-
mately Yen 6,000,000,000 of Jepan's total foreign trade.
During the peak yeer 1937 the totel Latin American trade
did not exceed Yen 350,0u0,000.
Argentina.

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
Argentina
There arrived in Japan on February 16 an Argentine
economic mission, compcsed of six delegates, invited to
this courtry by the Japan Chamber of Commerce for the
purpose of exploring the crounds for increased trede
between the two countries. Japan's total forcien trade
with tne latter country in 19s7 reached a hirh point of
almost eighty-five million yen but subsequently dropped to
less than twenty million yen last year, due in some part to
restrictions imposed by the Argentine Government on Japan's
exports to the Argentine. It was hoped that through the
negotiations it will be possible to build up again the trade.
In the discussions which took place during the month there
was stressed on the part of Japan desire to supply Argentina
with large quantities of cotton textiles, pottery, and
miscellaneous goods, in return for which Japan would take
wool, casein, canned meats, cereals, hides and skins,
quebracho, raw cotton, et cetera.*
Uruguay
A report appeared in the press on February 21 that the
Japanese Government would that day ratify a treaty of com-
merce and navigation with Truguay, but no orficial announce-
ment was made that the ratification had been made. The
treaty was reported to provice for most-favored-nation
treatment and mutual freedom of travel for the citizens of
the two countries. 
The treaty is expected to lead to
improvement of trade between the two countries which amounted
to some forty-four million yen in l937 but decreased to less
than a million yen in 1939.
(g)
mbasay's despatoh no. 4498, February 16, 1940.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
(g) Spain
It was announced on February 8 that a Spanish eccnomic
mission would arrive in Japan, possibly in April, for the
purpose of arraiging a commercial treaty between the two
counbries. It was reported thet the treaty probetly would
be in the nature of a "compensation treaty" providing in
part for barter and in part for free trade between the two
countries. Japan hopes to exchange silk, tea, bamboo,
camphor, and miscellaneous items, for copper, pig iron,
potash, mercury, cork, salt, anc olive oil. Japan's trade
with Spain in the last few years has dwindled almost to
the vanishing point. Even during normal times it has not
been large, imports and exports amountin in 1935 to only
eight million yen.
(h)
Rumania.
Announcement was made at the beginning of the month
that on Januery 3l a trade agreement on a barter system
was concluded between Ja an and Rumania. Details of the
acreement were not disclosed here.
(i) General International Relations
The Foreign Minister reiterated before the Diet on
several occasions during the month under review thet Japan
intended to maintain its position of following a policy of
"autonomous diplomacy." He declared on February 7 that it
was the intention of the Government to continue to adhere
to the anti-Comintern pact in the future, despite the fact
that the German-Soviet agreement was considered by the
Government as not being compatible with the spirit of the
paot, but that there was no plan contemplated to strengthen it.
on
*Embassy's telegram no. 95, February 8, 5 p.m.

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
On Februery 9, Mr. Arita intimated that the Government
disapproved the proposed reinforcing of its political co-
operation with Germeny and Italy. This statement was made
in response to an opinion voiced in the House of Represen-
tatives that if the European war came to an early end
Japan might well fin itself totally isolated, and that
therefore it should enter into closer ties with the powers
that "are against the present order of the world., The
Foreign Minister cautioned thot Japan must depend primarily
on itself and not count too much on other nations which
"are frienály at one time but may become enemies later on.
In his address on the occasion of the reopenin€ of the
Diet, the Foreien Minister declcred that Japan 'must do her
utmost to promote her foreign trade ani the assurance of
the supply of necessery coods.
In the same address and egain on February 9, the Foreign
Minister stated that it wes essentiel for Japan to expand
economically in the South Sea region, by "promoting trade
with and developing resources' there, and that every effort
would be put forth to develop relations between Japan and
those regions. He declared that Japan had no territorial
ambitions there and must dispel the persistent rumors
current abroed to this effect.* On February 19 the Overseas
Ministry declared that Japan desires peaceful economic ex-
pansion in Siam, the Netherlands East Indies, and the Streits
Settlement, using the South Sea mandates end Formosa as
bases of operation.
III.
*Embassy's telegram no. 105, February 10, 6 p.m.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONLITIONS.
(a) Diet
The Diet was reconvened on Februery 1, on which day
the annual addresses of the Tremier, the Foreign, ar,
894,032
and Nevy ministers were delivered. The Premier's speech,
which was couched in vague and general terms, merely re-
itereted the Government's policies that had already been
set forth, including those of non-involvement in the
uropean conflict, positive surport of the proposed new
central overnment in Chine, anc adjustment of relations
with third countrics.*
Reference has been made in tre foregoing sections of
this report to the salient statemonts mace by the Foreign
Minister in his acdress in regard to Jap n's foreign
policies. (References: sections herein concerning relations
with the United States, China, Coviat Russia, General
International Relitions.)
Subsequent sessions of the Diet during February were
devoted to debates on Government policies and bills pre-
sented. In other sections of this report there are noted
under the subjects to which they refer the substance of
these debates.
The outstanding event in the Diet proceedings was an
interpellation on February 2 by Mr. Takao Saito, a member
of the Minseito, the largest political party at present,
who delivered a forceful end searching attack on the
Government's China policy. Much of the speech was expunged
from the records and publication thereof was forbidden.
Mr.
mbassy's telegrams no. 71, February 1, 9 p.m.;
and no. 72, February 2, 9 p.m.

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.98)
-30-
Mr. Saito want d to know how much longer the China incident
would last, how tne Government hoped to dispose of it,
and what in f ct "tle new order in Tast Asia' meant.
Accordine to the published portion of the address, the
speaker asked for an inturpret tion of the five points
of the Konoye statement. He suggested that they were
mere "academic theory," and he intimated that if the
principles of no indemnity, no territory, end no economic
monopolies for Japan, were implèmented, the nation would
have nothing to show for the sacrifices it hed made. The
impression was given in tre published part of the address
that Mr. Seito was registering opposition to settlement
of the incident on any such reasonable terms, but in the
rem inder of ris speech he sugested that the conflict
could not be indefiniteiy continued without eventual ex-
haustion of Jeran's resources. Le then questioned whether
it was worth while to bring into existence the ang Ching-
wei régime as that entity would have to be uphelu by the
strength of Japanese armed forces in takin? its stand
against the Chungkine Government. He intimated, in con-
clusion, that a realistic approach to settlement of the
inoident would be to deal cirectly with the Chiang Kai-
shek régime, notwithstancing previous declar:tions to
the contrary.
The turmoil and confusion aroused by this speech con-
tinued throuehout the rest of the month. . Saito was
foroed to resign from the Iinseito Party ant the question
next arose as to what sort of punishment whould be given
him for his "slip of the tongue' in deriding the term
"holy

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
.31
"holy war." Rightist elements in the country demanded
his immediate expulsion from the Diet and it was under-
stood that the Army was also bringing pressure to bear to
this end. It wes held tliat he had "desecrated the.ohjectives
of the holy war," that his speech tended to disrupt the
unity of the Impire, and thet it was being exp oited in
Chine and by third powers to the detriment of Japan. In
other sections of the country much sympathy anc support
for Mr. Saito were found, ard it was app rent that his
remerks had represented the feeling of a large part of
the country, end brought to a head the previously latent
difference in political thoueht. Lespite entreaties made
upon ir. Seito, he refused to resign nis seat in the Diet
and by the end of the month the matter was still unsolved.*
(b) Official price control end reguletion
of nationel economy.
The important and pressing internal problem of prices
and economic adjustments came up for a great deal of dis-
cussion during Februnry. Interpellators in the Diet raised
the questions thet heve been under heated public discussion
for the past six montus and more, concerning the supply of
daily necessiti:s and the expansion of productive capacity.
It was held that militating against these two needs were
the current officially fixed low prices which, because they
were artifically maintained at too low levels, were being
flagrantly evaded. Thet evasion in turn resulted in
profiteering, maladjustment in the distribution of com-
modities, and othor unfavorable economic effects. Because
of
*Embassy's telegrams no. 79, February 3, 6 p.m.; no. 80,
February 3, 8 p.m.; and despatoh no. 4491, February 19,1940.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
of the low prices inaustry as a whole was receiving no
incertive for increased production and some industries
even vero forced to reduce their output. The essence
of the Government's policy, es brought out in the re-
plies of the Minister of Commerce nd Industry, was to.
continue to adhere to a low-price policy, but to adjust
the rates set et the prevailing levels of September 18,
1939. "Appropriate"prices, in most cases higher prices,
would instead be fixed for recessities upon the basis
of costs of production plus certain fixed proi its, while
increased prices would be arrnged for commodities abso-
lutely necessary for the expansion of productive in-
dustries. The Commerce inister stated that in this
fashion it was hoped to combat illegel transactions in
goods, which transactions, parenthetically he unreservedly
admitted, were rampant throughout the country.
The Commerce Minister reiterated the six-point war-
time price control progrem announced on January 27 of
this year as the basis or establishing "appropriate"prices
for daily necessitics. (Feference Politicel Teport for
January 1940).
It was cisclosed that subsidies would be made to certain
industries, such as the coal mining companies (Feference
section on General Economic anc Financial Conditions), to
stimulate production expansion as well as to ive relief
to those industries th.t were beine prohibited from increasing
the price of their products.
It

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
It was also announced tht on February 16 the Cabinet
had decided as a measure to afford compensation to low-paid
workers ageinst the sharp rise in living costs, trat monthly
allowances of from two to five yen would be granted to
workers earning less than seventy yen per month and having
dependents under fourteen years of age. It was reported
th:t approximately 1,600,000 factory and mine workers would
receive such allowances as from February 1.
The productive expansion program was to be, according
to the Covernment, gre ter in the comin year than during
last year. mphasis therein was again to be placed on basic
industrial commodities, and preferential tre tment was to
be civen in the supply of prim ry materials to industries
essential for the prosecution of the China incident. The
Sino-Manchukuo'-Japanese productive expansion program*
would, it was expected, be completed as regurds essuring
self-supply of basic materials in about the fiscal year
1943-44.
It was reported thet discussions were carried on during
the month regarding a reorganization of the price control
system with a view to attaining more effective price control
regulations. On Jebruary 25, an agreement was tentatively
reached to abolish the Central Price Control Commission in
favor of a new agency to be known as the Commodity Price
Fixing Council, as a unit of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry, and also to establish a new body of economic and
financial experts from private industry to advise the
Cabinet on price and economic matters.
(c)
Monthly political report for December 1939 under section
conoerning yen bloc.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.98)
--34-
(c) Army
On February l, an interpellator questioned the ar
Minister in regard to the expression of political views
by individuals in the military service, their participa-
tion in general politics, enc the publishing of political
views in the form of consensus of opinion in army crcles."
Ceneral Hate, the :r Minister, in reply denied thit there
had been any relaxation of the restrictions placed upon
the expression of nolitical views by army men and averred
that the nr Linister alone could speak for the Army, but
he added that milicry officers were permitted under their
orders to voice political opinion on matters relating to
their duties. The raising of this issue was reflective
of the pressure the Army hed been bringine to beer on
political affairs, as, for example, its reported inter-
vention in the Tiat's nanclin of the Saito interpellation.
The press, in commenting on this question, notec that the
Army held in its direct charge by Imperial Rescript the
prosecution of the "China incident" and therefore could not
help but be a powerful directive anó compelling
force in
present-day political affairs, which were so inextricably
tied up with the China hostilities.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
Nothing to report.
v.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
7
Governmeit bonds in the amount of Yen 500,000,000
were issued during February. The rate of ebsorption was
officially reported as being 79.5%, compared ith 91.ε%
Jreasury
during the previous month.
There was submitted to the Diet durine the r the
draft budget for the next fiscal year prepared by the
previous Cabinet. It will be recalled* that the total
estimates amounted to Yen 10,300,000,000. In presenting
these estimates the Finance Minister stated thet further
requests for funds would be made during the Diet session
"for truly urgent and unavoidable expenc itures." De-
liberations over the budget were being carried on at the
end of the month.
VI. ECONOMIC AL FII.ICIAL CONLITIONS
Japanese commercial, financial, and industrial attention
was centered during the month under review on the proceedings
of the Diet for an indication of the trend of future economic
plans of the Government, end pendin clarifiction of such
plans business generally remained static. tock exchange
transactions reflected the cautious attitude on the part of
traders and investors, with volume and value of transactions
declining sharply from the level of the previous month.
Moreover, the prospects of more intensive official regulation
of industry and the prob&bility of further restrictions on
dividands had a depressing effect on share values, average
quotations falling by almost four per cent from the January
average.
A8
*ionthly report for December 1939

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
-36-
As a direct result of the continued power shortage,
industrial production generally fell off in varying degrees
in the different industries from that of the previous
month.
Electric power and coal situation.
7
It will be recalled that there developed during the
month of January a serious shortage of power (lonthly report
for January 1940). At the end of thet month it was announced
that it had been decided to invoke the Electric Fower Ad-
justment Ordinance whereby further restrictions would be
imposed on the supply of electricity. Accordingly, from
February l0 to 20, electric power was curtailed by thirty
per cent in tie Kwanto district and thirty-five per cent
in the Kwansai district. For a time it was understood that
a cecree calling for tie requisition of all coal would be
promulgated, but this action was indefinitely postponed.
ith the improvement effected in the delivery of coal to
the generatine plants, and with the accumul tion of suffi-
cient supplies by the Jaranese lectric Fower and Trans-
mission Coapany, the power shortage was finally alleviated
to en appreciable extent, and aftor February 20 power re-
strictions were relexed to twenty per cent, but it was
considered that it woulo not be before summer, and then
only provided that there shall have been in the meanwhile
sufficient rainfall to replenish the reservoirs of the
hy@ro-electric plants, thet normal consumption of power
7
would be permitted.
To
2

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.98)
-37-
7
To encourage the expansion of production of coal,
it was announoed tht a bill would be submitted to the
Jariff
yen pe? :on, the expectation being that production could
thereby be incrensed by six million tons. It was expected
that some hundred million yen would be required for this
program. In the meantime one hundred thousand tons of
coal were bei.€ imported Irom abrond, principally fiom
Canada and India. Criticism was expressed in the Diet in
regard to the quality of the coal being mined, which was
said in many cases to h:ve become very poor. uestions
were also raised as regards the supply of coal from the
Asiatic continent. It was wondered why the shortage of
coal in Japan had not been met by the large resources in
coal supposedly st hend in Ma.churia and China. In this
connection it is further to be noted that a plan which has
been drawn up contemplates the import:tion of some five
million metric tons from North China in the coming fiscal
year out of the estimated production of that area of some
twelve million five hundred thousand tons.
Rice situation.
In the Diet the Government confirmed its estimate,
made in January, thet the 1939 rice crop of Japan proper
amounted to approximately sixty-nine million koku, and that
with the supplies from Formosa and Korea and the carry-over
Agriead
from the 1938 crop there was a supply for the mpire of
tore
more than a hundred million koku, which would allow for a
carry-over to next year of about four million, seven hundred
thousand koku.(A koku equals approximately five merican bushel:
Information

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.98)
-38-
Information from competent sources was such as to raise
considerable doubt as to the accurecy of these estimates.
It wes felt by those scurces that it was improbable that
the rice crop in Japan proper coulu have reached any such
figure as sixty-five million koku, and that instead of
Japan's having sufficient rice to provide for its needs and
for a carry-over until the next crop came in, there would
agialtu
can be attributed the report that Japan, to meet this de-
ficiency, had contracted for purchase from abroad of any-
cafibtal
where from seven to ten million koku, ana possibly even
more, to supply the re uirements of the country during the
last months of the rice year. The supplies were being
bought, it wes saic, in Siam, French Inco-China, and Burma,
while it was also reported thst a certain amount, estimated
at possibly trree million koku, was being obtained from China.
It was considered that Japen woulc have to expend about
three hundred million yen for these purchases. No official
figures in the matter were available during the month, as
imports of rice were omitted for the first time from the
monthly foreign trade returns. The irector of the Rice
Bureau of the Lepartment of Agriculture stated on February 3
that the Government was purchasing more than ten million
koku of rice, but he did not disclose whether the supplies
were being procured from local or foreien sources.
A major factor in the purchase from abroad of these
supplies of rice is patently the problem of utilization of
large amounts of foreign exchange for the purpose, Should
Japan, if in fact it does require such large quantities of
rice from abroad, find difficulty in effecting their
importation

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
-39-
importation, the country could turn to other cereals such
as wheat, millet, and barley, to make up the difference in
its food supply. This would, however, occasion some rather
trying readjustments in changing the diet habits of the
country.
Fertilizer.
It wes reported thut a bill would be presented to the
Diet to authorize the establishment of a company to be
known as the Japan Fertilizer Company and to be capitalized
at fifty million yen, for the purpose of adjusting the
supply of fertilizers, and, in effect, giving it a mono-
polistic control over the business in fertilizer in the
country. The demand for this measure sprang from the
deficiency encountered in the fertilizer supplies of the
country. It was announced in this regard that procuction
of chemical fertilizers has been reduced by some twenty
per cent, there being no prospect of an increase of the
amount in the near future without drastic measures being
undertaken to stimulate the production and to increase the
importation of the necessary raw materials.
Regulations were issued on February 9, for enforcement
on February 26, for the control of tle distribution of
fibre goods. Prices were set on about a thousend articles,
comprising many of daily necessity and use, with the prices
raised generally from around ten to twenty per cent higher
than those of September 18, 1939. Raw silk prices de-
oreased to about yen l625 per bale, or about twenty-rive yen
from those prevailing at the end of January. It should be
noted that in January a drastic reduction in raw silk
prices had occurred from the high peak of almost yen 2400
reached in December.
Prioes

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
Prices generally continued their upward march during
February but not in such eccentuated degree as in previous
months. Official figures for wholesele prices were up
only a fraction of a point, while retail prices increased
by more than two per cent. "holesale prices were officially
estimated to have risen by 35.3 per cent from June 1937,
and retail prices by 49.7 per cent. The general cost of
living in Japan, if ceiculated on the basis of official
Not for
prices, should have risen by less than 35 per cent from
the beginning of the "China incident,' but the widespread
attribution
resort, particularly prevalent in the past year, to under-
cover transactions at illegally high prices, accompanied by
all kinds of devices such as short sales, wash seles, de-
posit forfeiture, etc., to evde government economic control
measures and prices, has increased the actual price levels
and the cost of living in Japan to a far greater extent than
the Government figures would show. Noreover, the shortage
of some materials and the inferiority of others would further
tend to throw official statistics out of accurate relation
to the actual situation.*
Foreign trade.
Preliminary foreign trade figures for February placed
the value of exports at yen 314,324,000 and imports at
yen 331,822,000. Both exports and imports showed substantial
increases over those of the previous month, there being
an increase in exports of 37 per cent and in imports of 27
0
Lomance
per cent over the corresponding month of last year. The
unfavorable balance of trade was yen 17,500,000 for the
month
*Tmbassy's despatch no. 4556, dated March 4, 1940.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
-41-
month and yen 37,600,000 from the beginning of the year.
Cotton textiles, rayon yarns, raw silk, machinery, and
miscellaneous articles showed gains in value of exports
as compared to the previous montr.
During the two months' period the trade of Japan
proper with foreign countries outside of the yen bloc
showed an unfavorable balance of about yen 175,000,000.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ARICAN CONRCIAL INTRLSTS
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIS OF FOIGN CORCIAL INTRSTS
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR
An ordinance to become effective March 1 was promulgated
under the authority of the Netional General Mobilization Law
whereby male workers between the ages of 1l and 30 and female
workers between the ages of 1l and 20, subject to regulations
covering their employment, could be diverted to the more
Coumince
urgent industries. It was announced that, through this
regulation, industries engaged in the production of non-
essential commodities woulc be forced to decrease their
7
staffs to 70 per cent of the total employed as of December
31,1939.
It was announced in the Diet that a plan for mobilization
of labor was being drafted and would probably be put into
effect in the near future. It was also announced that the
Government expected an early dissolution of labor unions in
the country, as they were felt to be contrary to the spirit
of

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
of industrial service to the state during an emergency
period. There was s ome discussion in the Diet in regard
to the elleged decline in labor efficiency in Japan recently.
It was considered that this decrease in efficiency was
materially affecting the industrial production plans of the
country. The low standard of wages as compared with the
rising cost of living, the limitations of employment and the
length of the working hours were held to be the principal
causes for the decreased efficiency of labor.
X. MISCELLANEOUS
Nothing to report.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
: February 1940
No. Date
Subject
4459 February 3
Diplomatic visa report
4460 Felruary 3
Interference by Japanese authorities
in Peiping with employees of National
City Bank of N.Y.
446l February 3
Request for subscription to Domei
Home News Service
4462 February 3
Acquisition of books for Embassy lihrary
4463 February 5
British removal of 2l Germans from
ASAMA MARU
4464 February 5
Golden Gate International Exposition,1940
4465 February 5
Bombing of Yunnan Railway.
4466 February 5
British representations to reopen
the port of Swatow.
4467 Februery 5
Japanese attack on British Airways
plane DARLANUS
4468 February 5
Japanese reply to Embassy's communication
concerning U..Naval Aircraft engaged
in neutrality patrol
4469 February 6
Article in COI TMPORARY JAPAN by
Naotake Sato re Japanese aims in China.
4470 February 7
French-Japanese relations: Bombing of
Yunnan Railway - French representations.
4471 February 7
Oaths of office - Donald ". Lamm.
4472 February 7
Taxes levied by "Rehabilitation Commission"
Swatow
4473 February 7
Neutrality Act - use of :merican flag
by vessels of foreign states.
4474 February E
Pamphlet prepared by the Japanese
Navy Minister
4475 February 8
Japanese interference with China Foreign
Trade Corporation (American) at Shanghai.
4476 February 8
Investigation re remittances to bene-
ficiaries of Veterans' Administration
who reside abroad.
4477 February 10
Interference with American interests in
China: linen shipments from Swatow.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4478
February 10
French protest re bombing of
Yunnan Railway
4479
February 12
Newspaper clipping: Japan and
America" - JAPAN ADVERTISER,
February 10, 1940
4480
February 12
Newspaper artiole re Japanese-Soviet
relations: coal situation in
North Karafuto
4481
February 12
Home leave of Mr. Charles H.Faust
4482
February 12
Visa fee of Mr. Albert H.Terry
4483
February 12
Clipping, JAPAN TIES: "U.S.Naval ex
pansion program may prove menace
to Japanese."
4484
February 12
National Geographic magazines for
J.L.Goetzmann, Vice Consul,Yokohama
4485
February 13
Monthly report, January 1940.
4486
February 13
Resignation of Abe Cabinet; composi-
tion ana policies of Yonai Cabinet.
4437
February 14
Chefoo trede restrictions -
lace and embroidery exports.
4488
February 14
Japanese seizure of British launches
near Hong Kong.
4489
February 15
British claim for damage to 3ritish
consular property,Tsirgtao ¿. Chefoo.
4490
February 15
Customa administration at Shanchai.
4491
February 19
Mr. Takao Saito's Diet interpellation
4492
February 15
Statemert attributed to Mr.A.R.Katz
4493
February 16
Air mail communication between
the U.S. and Japan
4494
February 15
Japan's shortages: coal and electric
power
4495
February 16
Japan-Hungary cultural convention.
4496
February 16
Fuel oil contract
4497
February 16
Fur trade restrictions in North China
4498
February 16
Argentine Economic Mission to Japan
4499
February 16
Claim of Chemical Construction Corp.:
Yung Li Chemical plant

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
4500
February 16
French protest re interference with
linen shipments from Swatow
4501
February 16
Egg trade rastrictions
4502
February 15
Detention by police of James R.Young
4503
ubruary 16
Traae enquiry from Giant Manufacturing
Company, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
4504
February 16
ASAlIA MARU case - Japanese search of
SS WINGSANG
4505
February 16
Conversation with Amiral Nomura,
former Minister for Foreign Affairs.
4506
February 17
Diplomatic visa report.
4507
February 17
French protest re further bombing of
Yunnan reilway and violation of
Tongkingese territory by Ja anese plenee.
4508
Februery 17
Situation at Kulangsu
4509
February 17
Newspaper clipping re radio broadcast to
the C.S. by Mr. Noboru Ohtani.
4510
February 19
Reported failure of Japanese to submit
to League of Nations annual report on
administration of South Seas mandates.
4511
February 20
Transmitting text of agreement between
Japan and Soviet Russia re fisheries.
4512
February 20
Treaty of friendship, Japan-Iran.
4513
Februa ry 20
Oaths of office, Donald Y. Smith.
4514
February 21
Air services between Japan and Thailand.
4515
February 21
Foreign Office reply to Embassy's repre-
sentations re export-import permit
system at Chefoo.
4516
February 23
Marcelo Tan case.
4517
February 23
Visit of USS GOLD STAR
4518
February 23
U.S. naval aircraft in neutrality patrol.
4519
February 24
Speeches delivered on occasion of founding
of Society of Friends of Eestern Art.
4520
February 24
Map cabinet
4521
Fabruary 24
Employment of Mr. Frank Quini as messenger.
4522

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
4522
February 24
Scales
4523
February 24
Confidential documents for Shanghai
4524
February 24
Taxes levied by "Rehabilitation Commission"
at Swatow
4525
February 24
Diplomatic visa report
4526
Februery 26
Chinese Maritime Customs, Swatow
4527
February 26
Seventh International Congress for
Rheumatic Diseases
4528
February 26
Jepanese attack on British Airways plane
LARLANUS: British claim.
4529
February 26
A.ti-Arcrican agitation at Chenliu
4530
February 26
Anti-American agitation at Chemliu
4531
Februery 27
Japanese petroleum activities in North China
4532
February 27
Relinquishment of citizenship by Japanese
possessing dual nationality
4533
February 27
JAPAN TIIES article reportinE radio broad-
cast to America by Mr."Toshi Go.
4534
February 27
J..Pa TIS article re radio broadcast to
Anerica of speech by Mr. Saiko Tsurumi
4535
February 27
Assignment of Mr. Thomas Valenza to Dept.
4536
February 27
JAPAN TIIS clipping: Castle scores
Japsn embargo by America."
4537
February 27
Translation of article from CHO KCRON:
'An interview with Ambassador Grew."
4538
February 27
Bombing of Yunnan railway.
4539
February 27
Identity and status of Mr. K. Obata.
4540
February 27
Embassy refrigerators
4541
February 28
Home leave of Miss Lillian Gardiner.
4542
February 28
British representations re Tientsin situatior
4543
February 26
Publications for the Library
4544
February 28
Japanese detention of Captainr of
Hungarian freighter NYUGAT
4545

=== Page 148 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
4545
February 28
Pearl River pilotage regulations.
4546
February 29
British-Japanese negotiations re Tientsin
4547
February 29
Translation of artisles from Japanese pres
4548
February 29
Proposed visit to U.s. of Count Kabayama
4549
February 29
Japenese interest in Mr. Sumner Welles'
mission to Europe.

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPART ET
DURING FEBRUARY 1940
No. Date
Subject
69
February 1, 4 p.m. Boarding of Asama Maru.
70
Fetruary 1, 5 n.m. Braraing of Asama Maru.
71
February 1, 9 n.m. Opening of the Diet.
72
February 2, 10 a.m. Re uest for new code books.
73
February 2, 6 p.m.
Reply of the Foreirn Minister to
interpellati,ns in the Diet regarding
Jananese-American relations.
74
February 2, 7 p.m. Foreign Office statement in regard to
the collapse of the "Manchukuo"-
Mongolia border negotations.
75
February 2, 8 p m.
Detention of Mr. Young.
76
February 2, 9 p.m.
Press comments on address of Foreign
:inister.
77
February 3, 2 p.m.
Asama Haru case.
78
February 3, 3 p.m.
Searching of Wingsang.
79
February 3, 6 p.m.
Speech of Mr. Saito in the Diet.
、80
February 3, 8 p.m.
Conversation of Mr. Dooman.
81
February 3,  n.n. Conversatien of r. Doonan.
82
February 3, midnight Detention of r. Young.
83
February 5, 5 p.m. Visit of the U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
84
February 5, 6 p.m. Detention of r. voung.
85
February 5, 8 p.m.
Asema Maru case.
86
February 6, 1l a.m. French protest on bombing of the
Yunnan Railway.
87
February 6, 6 p.m. Case of James R. Young.
88
February 7, 1l a.m. Neutrality patrol.

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
No. Date
Subject
89 Feb. 7, 5 p.m.
Annual commercial review.
90 Feb. 7, 7 p.m.
Internellation in the Diet.
91 Feb. 7, 9 p.m.
French conversations concerning bombing
of the Yunnan Railway.
92 Feb. 8, 2 p.m.
Visit of the French Ambassador with
the Vice Foreien inister.
93 Feb. 8, 3 p.m.
tatement cf the French Ambassador of
his conversation with the Vice Minister
concerning the bombing of the Yunnan
Railway.
94 Feb. 8, 4 p.n.
Case of Asame aru.
95 Feb. 8, 5 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Minister in
the Diet, concerning foreign relations.
96 Feb. 8, 6 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign inister in
the Diet concerning relations with
the Soviet Union.
97 Feb. 8, 7 p.m.
Representations concerning Swatow
linen shipments.
V 98 Feb. 8, 8 p.n.
Press reports of interpellations.
99 Feb. 8, 9 p.m.
Pross reports of Budget Committee
proceedings and relations with the
United States.
100 Feb. 9, 4 p.m.
Requisition for funds.
101 Feb. 9, 5 n.m.
Informel communication to :r. Yoshizawa
concerning Swatow linen shipments.
102 Feb. 9, 7 p.m.
French protest concerning violation of
Indochinese territory.
103 Feb. 9, 8 p.m.
Diet proceedings.
104 Feb. 9, ε n.m.
Press comment on Japanese-American
reletions.
 105 Feb. 10, 6 p.m. Interpellations in the Diet.
106 Feb. 11, 2 o.m.
Navy finister's reply to interpellations
in the Diet.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
107 Feb. 11, 6 p.m.
Interpellation in the Diet concerning
American-Jananese relations and oral
message to the A bassador of the
Foreign ilinister.
108 Feb. 12, 11 a.m.
Personnel.
109 Feb. 12, 3 p.m.
Rdio interference by Station JND.
110 Feb. 12, 6 p.m.
Kulancsu situ tion.
111
Feb. 13, noon
Denartment's Far Eastern policy.
112 Feb. 13, 7 p.m.
Representations regarding exohange
control restrictions at Chefoo.
113 Feb. 17, 6 p.m.
Press comment on Mr. Welles'
European visit.
114 Feb. 13, 8 p.m.
Detention of ir. Young.
115
Feb. 1, 8 p.m.
As ;ienment of First ecretary as
supervisory officer of Consulates.
116 Feb. 14, 5 p.m.
Asama Maru case.
117 Feb. 14, 6 p.m.
Cenversation with the British
Ambassador.
118 Feb. 14, 7 n.m.
Abrogation of the Japanese-Netherlands
treaty.
119 Feb. 14, 8 p.m.
Reply of the Foreign Minister to
interpellation in the Diet concernins
cases pending between the United State
and Jnan.
120 Feb. 15, 11 a.m.
Conversation with the Netherlands
Minister.
121
Feb. 16, noon
Argentine trade delegation.
122
Feb. 16, 2 p.m.
Chemical Construction Corporation
claim.
123 Feb. 17, neon
French protest concerning bombing
of the Yunnan Railway.
124 Feb. 17, 1 p.m.
Request for itinerary of Ambassador
Johnson.

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
No. Date
Subject
125 Feb. 17, 2 p.n. Reply to an interpellation regarding
a possible American embargo.
126 Feb. 17, 3 p.m.
Proposed assignment of an American
to represent Danish interests in
Nagoya.
127 Feb. 19, noon
Report of the wrecking of the steamer
PRESIDENT UEZON.
128 Feb. 19, 4 p.m. Case of ir. Young.
129 Feb. 20, noon
Request for dinlomatic visa for German
Consul General.
130 Feb. 20, 5 p.m. Pouch service.
131
Feb. 20, 8 n.m. Case of r. Young.
132
Feb. 21, 1 p.m. Case of arcelo Tan.
133 Feb. 22, 2 p.m.
Statement of the Foreign Office con-
cerning settlement of American cases.
134 Feb. 22, 3 p.m.
Statement (f the Forein Office con-
cerning settlenent of issues with
third Towers.
135 Feb. 23, 1 p.m.
Visit of the Duke of Coburg to the
United States.
136 Feb. 23, 5 n.m.
Proposed Mexican economic mission to
Japan.
137 Feb. 23, 6 p.m.
Radio receiving set for the Enbassy.
138 Feb. 23, 7 p.m.
Eritish protest on bonbinf of the
Yunnan Rai Ivway.
139 Feb. 24, noon
Reyuest for diplomatic visa for
French Commercial Attache.
140 Feb. 25, 6 p.n.
Press reorts on American-Japanese
relations.
141 Feb. 26, 9 a.n.
Request for continued employment of
:r. Gaddis.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
-5 -
No. Date
Subject
142
Feb. 27, 10 a.m.
Request of Mr. Crocker for leave
of absence.
143 eb. 27, 3 n.m.
Renresentations concerning Pearl
River Tilotage regulations.
144
Feb. 27, 4 p.m.
Asama Maru case.
145
Feb. 27, 5 p.m.
Conversation of the British Ambas-
sador with the Vice Minister for
Foreign Affairs concern'ng aid of
the United States to China.
146
Fb. 27, 8 p.m.
Datention of Yr. Young.
147
Feb. 29, 4 p.m.
Reply of the Foreifn Minister to an
interpellation concerninf American-
Japanese relations.
148 Feb. 29, 9 p.m.
Representations concerning Canton
Municipal tax on petroleum.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.96)
TMENT OF STATE
RON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
June 13, 1940.
Tokyo's no. 4681 of April 29,
Report of Conditions in
in during the Month of March
1940.
To note:
1. Page 8, feeling in Japan
re involvement of the Únited
States in the European war.
2. Pages 21 and 22, Japan's
trade relations with the Nether-
lands East Indies.
3. Pages 38-30, budget for
1940-1941.
894.00 P.R./148
IBW
FE:White:HES

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.94)
91940
THE FOREIGE SERVIGE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
1940 JUN 3 PM 4 07
AMERICAN EMBASSY
COMMUNIUATIONS
No. 4681
ADSTokyo, Apr1l 29, 1940
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF MARCH 1940
Cofiy in FE
OFFICE DE RE MDNISER ON
WC
GJUN141940W
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVIS
JUN 13 1940
COPIES SEN TO
O. N.L AMD.
g..e
g.x
For Diotrihujon Chact
Grad
For
The Honorable
No
The Secretary of State
42
894.00 P.R./148
M生D
Washington
Sir:
With reference to the Dapartment's instruction
no. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit
herewith the Ebassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of March 1940.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
FILED
5
Inclosurey
Report no. 162.
(1)
800
JE:mg
F/A
In quintuplicate to the Department.
Copies to Embassies: Peiping, Chungking, Moacow.
Copies to Consulates General: Shanghai, Mukden, Harbin,
Seoul, Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates: Deiren, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki,
Nagoya, Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to Commanter-in-Chief of she U.S. Asiatic Fleet.
Copy to High Commissioner of the Fhilippine Ialands

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 162
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF MARCH 1940

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X
AND SUMMARY
pages
I. RELATIONS VWITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) Japanese bombing of Haiphong-
Yunnan Railway: Foreign Office
reply to Embassy's representations
1,2
(b) Reopening of the Yangtze River
8,3
(c) Establishment of the ang Ching-
wei "régime" at Nanking.
3
(d) Representations made by the
Embassy in March
4
(e) General relations
4-8
II. RELATIONS ITH OTHR COUNTRIES
(a) Great Britain
1. Tientsin question
9,10
2. General relations
10,11
(b) China
1. Military operations
11,12
2. Establishment of the Wang
Ching-wei régime at Nanking
12-16
3. General relations
16,17
(c) Frence
18
(d) Russia
18,19
(e) Italy
19,20
(f) Spain
20
(ε) India
20,21
(h) Netherlands ast Indies
21,22
(i) Argentina
23
(j) General international relations
23,24
III. INTIRLL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a) Diet
24,25
(b) Political parties
25,26
(c) Position of the Government
26,27
IV

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
27
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
27-30
VI. GNERAL ECONOMIC AD FIANCIAL CONDITIONS 3O-S
Foreign trade
32,33
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COLI.ERCIAL INTERESTS
33
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGI COLMERCIAL INTLRESTS
33
IX. LABOR
33
X. MISCELLANEOUS
33

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
-1-
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Japanese bombing of Haiphong-Yunnan
Rallway: Foreign Office reply to
Embassy's representations.
On March 6, the Embassy receivea a reply to its
911.94
representations, which, it will be recelied, were made
in January, concerning the Japanese bombing cf the
Haiphong-Yunnan railway. This reply was to the effect
that, through an agreement entered into botween China
and France in 1903, this railway was excluded from any
neutral status in the event of war between China and a
third power and that, as the railway is bein sed as a
supply route for arms, ammuniticn and other military com-
modities, the Japanese forces may properly undertake opera-
tions against it; that no responsibility lies with the
Japanese Government through the prosecution of these
operations against the railway in respect to tre endangering
of American lives and injuring of Americen commerce using
the railway; and that the assurances of the Japanese
Government for the respect of the interests of third powers
in China may not be interpreted as limiting in any way the
proper military actions by the Japanese forces.*
In conformity with the Department's instructions**the
Embassy addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs an
informal communication in rejoinder to the Foreign Office
reply
Embassy's telegram no. 155, March 6, 7 p.m.
Department's telegram no. 85, March 9, 2 p.m.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
reply, in which it was stated that the American Government
could not admit the relevancy to the question of the ref-
erence to the Chinese-French agreement of 1903 nor could
it admit lack of responsibility on the part of the Japanese
Government for any loss of American life or damage to
American property caused by the current Japanese military
operations in China. Full reservation was then made of
American rights in the matter.*
(b) Reopening of the Yangtze River.
It will be recalled (Reference Monthly Report for
December 1939) that in his conversation with the Ambassador
on December 18, 1939, the then Foreign Minister, Admiral
Nomura, informed Mr. Grew that the Japanese Government
intended to open the Yangtze River for general navigation
as far as Nanking "in about two months." The Ambassador
received word from the Foreign Minister during the early
part of the month that the continued delay in putting these
intentions into effect was due, in large part, to certain
unforeseen c auses, but that preparations for the reopening
of the river were being carried out as rapidly as possible.**
An excuse put forward by the spokesman of the Navy Ministry
for the delay was that the Chinese were floating mines down
the river, making it unsafe for "general" shipping.
On Maroh 4, the Minister of War is reported to have
stated in reply to an inquiry from a Diet member as to the
reopening of the Yangtze River that he assumed that the
river
*mabassy's telegram no. l65, March 12, noon, and
mbassy's despatch no. 4570, March l1, 1940.
mbassy's telegram no. 157, Maron 7, 6 p.m.
e

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
river would be opened "sooner or later," but that this might
not occur at all in the event, for instance, that third na-
tions should obstruct J&panese military operations and main-
tenance of peace and order in China. The spokesman of the
Foreign Office later interpreted the statement of the Yar
Linister to mean that the privilege of navigating the Yangtze
River might, if deemed necessary, not be extended in indi-
vidual cases to shipping of powers acting against Japan, but
that preparations were being continued toward opening the
river. There were no further developments in this matter
during March.
(c) Establishment of the Wang Ching-wei
"regime" at Nanking.
The Secretary of State issued on March 30 a statement
in which was set forth the position of the United States
Government in the light of the establishment on that day at
Nanking of the new régime at Nanking headed by Wang Ching-
wei. After noting that the setting up of the Nanking régime
appeared to be "a further step in a program of one country
by armed force to impose its will upon a neighboring country
and to block off a large area of the world from normal po-
litical and economic relations with the rest of the world,"
and after reiterating the concern of the United States in
the present developments in China, the statement announced
that the United States, believing that the Chinese National
Government still has the allegiance and support of the great
majority of the Chinese people, "of course continues to
recognize that Government as the Government of China."*
(a)
"Depertment's telegram no. 103, March 30, 2 p.m.

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
(d) Representations made by the Embassy in March
The Embassy made representations to the Foreign Office
in March in the following instances:
1. In regard to restrictions imposed by the Japanese
naval authorities on the commercial activities of merican
oil companies in the Namhoi district near Canton and the
granting of oil monopolies to Japanese-sponsored firms at
the town of Fatshan in that district.*
2. In regard to the damage suffered by the 'merican
Church Mission at Kingtehchen, Kiangsi, as a result of
Japanese bombing of that city.**
It should be noted that during the first quarter of this
year there was, with but one or two exceptions, an absence
of reported damage to American properties as a result of
Japanese military operations in China.
(e) General relations.
The general attitude in Japan towards the United States
during the month under review was much as that manifested in
the previous two months: one of resentment and apprehension.
(Reference monthly reports for January and February 1940.)
The Japanese position is that the key to the "course of things"
lies in doing away with the status quo in the Far East and in
establishing in its stead that vague conception which is termed
the "new order in East Asia." The United States, however, is
unappreciatively and narrow-mindedly endeavoring to stand in
the way of the changes in the status guo; it is opposing Japan
in its "immutable policy" in this regard, and it is
even attacking the Japanese 'hew order," whioh is
already well on the road towards execution. The
press
Dapartment's telegram no. 87, Maroh 11, 6 p.m.;
Mabessy's telegram no. 185, Maroh 20, 11 a.m., and
mbassy's despatch no. 4628, April 4, 1940.
mmgha1's telegram no. 224, March 18, 4 p.m.;
msay's despatoh no. 4613, Maroh 29, 1940.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
press listed the positive steps that the United States had
taken against Japan as being, in part: the two basic
notes presented to the Jepanese Government in the autumn
of 1938, the State Department's placing of moral embargoes
against the acceptance of orders from Japanese munitions
manufacturers, the extension of the silver purchase agree-
ment, the advancing of trade credits to the Chinese
National Government, the abrogation of the Treaty of Com-
merce and Navigation, and the building programs of the
American navy, strengthening of the naval defenses in the
Pacific Ocean, and the conducting of"intimidating" naval
maneuvers there. It was further added that the United
States had taken over the functions formerly exercised by
Britain and France, before the European war put an end to
their activities, of giving meterial and financial aid to
China. Finally, the United States was seid to be holding
as a trump card the imposition of embargoes against Japan,
regardless of the hardships they would cause to this country.
For all this merican opposition to and menacing of Japan,
it was announced, there was no justifiable cause, as Japan
has been giving every consideration to American rights and
interests in China and is trying to settle the problems
that have arisen there.
The tone of this feeling against the United States be-
came somewhat more intensified, and the press comments con-
cerning Japanese-American relations waxed noticeably harsh
Auring Maroh. It was declared that Japan might well consider
a re-oxaminmtion of its policy towards and dealings with the
tatsed States. The Government was said by the press to be
studying

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
studying all practical counter-mcasures to meet any situation
that might arise. Mention was particularly made cf the fact
that Japan was now looking to its navy as its host Toans and
weapon to deal with the United Stetes.*
On March llth the spokesman of the Foreign ico
stated to foreign press correspond ents that Japan han done
about all there was to do to ease the si turtion between the
two countries and that Japan felt it was high time for the
United States to reciprocate Japan's efforts toward tris end.
He added, in reply to an inquiry as to how the United States
should reciprocate, that Japan did not necessarily expect
the United States "to take an initiative" but rather to show
some definite gesture indicating American desire to improve
relations with Japan. There was no question of Jepen's
being "satisfied" with things as they are at the prosent. he
said in regard to the question of the non-treaty situation
between Japan and America, for despite the fact ther trade
relations had not been visibly affected by the lapso of the
treaty, the uncertainties attending the absence of a defi-
nite agreement were not assuring. He also expressed the
opinion that there are two aspects to American-Japanese
relations. The one concerned American rights and interests
in China; the other concerned principles. If the only issue
between the two countries were the former, it could, he felt,
be
*Embassy's telegrams no. 163, March 9, 5 p.m.;
no. 171, March 12, 6 p.m.; no. 177, March 15, 5 p.m.;
no. 209, Maroh 28, 5 p.m.; no. 214, March 30, 7 p.m.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
be easily settled. But if the United States was bent on
branding Japan for its ections in China an "aggressor" and
an "invader", and in seeking to interfere in the affairs
of East Asia, it would "simply rouse Japan into a righteaus
indignation."*
In marked contrast to the increasing acerbity of tone
of the press and the anti-American utterances of the Foreign
Office spokesman were statements mede during the month
by the Government. In several pronouncements by the Foreien
Minister and the Premier, there were presented restrained
and concilietory views with regard to United States-Japanese
relations. The American loan tc the Chinese National
Government was described as a purely commercial credit
arrangement; it was felt that relations with the United
States have not reached an impasse, that they could still
be improved and that to this end the Government'would con-
tinue to endeavor to explain its position"to the United
States; and it was affirmed that the question of embargoes
was still in a preliminary stage and it was declared that
it was unlikely that the United States would risk imposing
them.**
The
*Embassy's telegram no. 165, March 11, 6 p.m.;
no. 172, March 13, 4 p.m.; no. 169, March 12, 4 p.m.
**Embassy's telegrams no. 173, March 13, 5 p.m.;
no. 199, March 23, 7 p.m.; no. 200, Merch 24, 4 p.m.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
The Foreign Minister also endeavored to allay the
appreciable speculation and agitation that had been mani-
fested in the press and Diet over the purpose of the
visit of the Under Secretary of State's visit to Europe.
It will be recalled that Mr. Welles's visit was considered
here as portending an effort on the part of the United
States to bring about peace in Europe and that the
American Government intended thereafter to interfere to
the same end in the Far East to the disadvantage of Japan.
Moreover, it was noted that the United States had not in-
cluded Japan in its consultations with other powers over
the future economic structure of the world. The Foreign
Minister stated that he understood that r. elles's visit
to Europe was merely to observe an  report on the uropean
situation, that he had no authority to make any overtures
for peace, and that, anyway, it was premature to think that
there were any possibilities of the hostilities in Europe
being concluded at the present time.
A distinct feeling, it mey be noted, again was evident
in this country--one that had been prominent in Japan in the
late spring and summer of 1939 but had been greatly dissi-
pated in the autumn of last year--that the Tnited States would
eventually if not shortly become involved in the uropean
hostilities. The sentiment was as well held with this feel-
ing that if the United States should become involved therein
the grip might be relaxed of the invisible hand of merica
on Japan's shoulder that was held there ready to jerk Japan
baok from its headlong march forward in its China policy.
II.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
II. RELATIONS ITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Great Britain
1. Tientsin question.
There had been no significant developments during
the first two months of this year in the negotiations for
741.94
a solution of the Tientsin question which have been carried
on intermittently and laboriously since last summer between
the British Embassy and the Foreign Office.* In March,
however, this matter received much attention and by the end
of the month, after frequent discussions, the negotiations
had progressed to a stage where a settlement of the question
appeared to be in sight. As regards the disposition of the
Chinese silver stored in the British Concession at Tientsin,
the proposal which the British submitted in December of last
year was slightly modified in the light of the changes de-
sired by the Chinese Government** but it remained in most
essentials in its original form. Two points concerning this
issue were still to be resolved: the control that the desig-
nated British and Japanese banks were to have over the silver,
and the giving of a definite undertaking by the Japanese that
after the conclusion of the agreement they will make no
further demands for relief purposes on the stored silver.
The draft formulas concerning the other points in the
Tientsin question which had already been generally agreed
upon but which were not to be adopted until the question.
could be settled as a whole, were also taken up in March.
These
mbassy's telegram no. 25, January 17, 6 p.m., and
Embessy's despatch no. 4422, January 16, 1940.
*mchungking's telegram no. 113, March 4, 1 p.m.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
These formulas related to: currency, the main feature being
the British undertaking to place no obstacle in the way of
the use of the North China "Federal Reserve Bank" currency
in the Biitish Concession; police matters: and the British
desiderata that all blockade measures and restricticns are
to be removed and that the Japanese will do all in their
power to suppress in regions under their control anti-British
activity and agitation.*
2. General relations.
During the month under review there appeared a marked
note of friendliness towards Great Britain in the press and
other discussions of Anglo-Japanese affairs. This attitude
also was noted in the official approaches of the Japanese
Government to the problems between the two countries. In
various statements made by important personages during the
month, the feeling was expressed that the "worst" in the
relations between the two countries had been passed and the
hope ventured that the two countries would shortly be able
to resolve their differences. Particular emphasis was
placed by the Japanese upon the importance of the economic
relation between the Japanese and Sritish empires, obviously
reflecting the current Japanese concern as regards its
foreign trade; of which trade the British Empire accounts
for a large share.
on
*Imbassy's despatch no. 4546, February 29, 1940;
Embassy's telegrams no. 153, March 5, 4 p.m.;
no. 161, March 9, 3 p.m.; no. 178, March 15, 7 p.m.;
no. 196, March 28, 2 p.m.;
Embassy's despatches
no. 4601, March 19, and no. 4617, March 29, 1940.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
On March 28th the 3ritish Ambassador delivered an ad-
dress before the Japan-British Society, in which, while
mentioning in a general way the difficulties that had beset
British-Japanese relations during the past few years, he
spoke in friendly and hopeful terms of the future. He said
in effect that Japan and Britain being two maritime powers
on the fringe of continents were vitally concerned with
those continents and were striving for much the same ob-
jectives, and that it should be possible to bring into
full harmony their national policies.*
The British Ambassador, in a note to Mr. Grew, explained
with regard to the unfavorable comments that had appeared in
the United States press regarding his speech; that his re-
marks portended no change in British policy toward Chine, and
in particular no intention to recognize the new régime that
was being set up at Nanking.**
(b) China
1. Military operations***
The month of March was a very quiet one as far as
793.94
Japanese military operations in China were concerned, and
most of what military activity that occurred was devoted to
clean-up campaigns. These appeared to have been conducted
in numerous areas in much of the occupied territory; many
being repetitions of similar activities conducted in the same
localities during the past two years, where, despite Japanese
efforts, Chinese attacks continued to occur.
In
*mmbassy's despatch no. 4624, April 2, 1940.
**mmbassy's telegram no. 219, April 1, 1 p.m.
Military Attaché.

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
In the northwest, Japanese forces again undertook
operations against Wuyuan, in Suiyuan Province, which the
Chinese had succeeded in recapturing from the Mongolian
garrison left there after the Japanese captured it in
January. The Japanese claimed to have retaken it, but
they again withdrew to Paotow as they had done after their
previous advance. In central China there was little ac-
tivity reported. In south China further fighting occurred
around Nanning; while the Japanese again occupied Chungshan
and also iaunched an offensive neer the border of Macao
in the Pearl River delta.
Japanese reports continued to feature internecine
warfare in China between the Communists and Chinese
National Government forces, particularly in Shansi and
Shantung. The Japanese press reported that this fighting
was being eagerly watched not only by Japan but by Russia
as well. The latter country, according to these reports,
had stationed some six thousand troops at Lanchow, Kansu,
and Hsian, Shensi.
There was very little aerial activity during the month.
2. Establishment of the Wang Ching-wei régime
at Nanking.
On March 12 the Premier issued a long statement which
constituted in fact the prelude for the long-heralded
establishment on March 30th of the Japanese-created new
"Central Chinese Régime". In this statement Admiral Yonai
reiterated the oft-repeated Japanese declaration that the
determined

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
determined policy of Japan was the establishment of
"permanent peace in the Orient" and a "new order in East
Asia." He stated that "in the performance of the sacred
task of reconstructing East sia, the first step to be
taken is to create and insure a new international relation-
ship between Japan, Manchukuo and China." He then
referred to the principles of the Konoe statement on which
this accomplishment was to be based. He announced that
Japan would assist in the formation of a new régime in China
and after its establishment would speedily extend recogni-
tion to it.*
On March 20 the Central Politicel Conference met at
Nanking and approved in short order the prearranged or-
ganization of the new government. The organization of
this "régime" headed by "ang Ching-wei followed closely
that of the Chinese National Government.
With the establishment of this régime the "Renovation
Government" at Nanking and the Provisional Government of
North China were disbanded. The latter, however, was trans-
formed into a North China Political Affairs Commission
located at Peiping, and having jurisdiction over the
three northern provinces of Shansi, Hopeh, and Shantung.
This Commission is to have wide powers and to be inde-
pendent to a large extent of the vang Ching-wei régime,
to allow for a very considerable degree of autonomy in
North
*Embassy's telegram no. 179, March 15, 8 p.m.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
North China. It is to handle the administration and
economic affairs of that region, maintain its own so-
called "peace preservation army," direct and supervise
the governments of the three provinces, and "deal with
foreign affairs of a local character." The currency of
the Federal Reserve Bank is to be maintained in that area.
The inaugural ceremonies were held as scheduled on
March 30, with Wang Ching-wei announcing the return of
the "National Government" to Nanking, and that it was the
only legal government of China. In a proclamation which
he read on the occasion, he declared that the two points
of the policy of the new government were the realization
of peace through political and economic cooperation with
Japan and the establishment of a constitutional govern-
ment. For the execution of this policy a ten-point
platform was set forth in the proclamation, as follows:
respect for the legitimate rights and interests of
friendly powers; checking of Communism; furthering of
democratic principles; invitation of foreign capitel and
technical assistance for the economic development of the
country; promotion of foreign trade; establishment of
a central bank and unification of the currency system;
and readjustment of taxation. It was also declared that
all regulations and treaties issued in the future by
the Chungking Government would be considered void. The
Chungking Government was invited to participate in the
"peace movement."  decree was later issued calling
upon

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
upon the Chinese military forces to disband. Two further
statements were issued on March 31 by the inister of
Financc and the Minister of Agriculture setting forth
the government's financial and agriculturel policies.*
On March 30, there was issued by the Japanese
Government its statement announcing the establishment of
the new régime. This was in the na ture of a declaration
that the Japanese Government intends to support the
"new government" and expects third powers to realize
"this solemn reality." It was also asserted that Japan
would continue to fight against the "remaining pro-
Communist and anti-Japanese forces" in China.**
Before the Wang Ching-wei 'government"had been in-
augurated, it was announced in Japan that General
Nobuyuki Abu, former Prime Minister, had been designated
as special envoy of Japan to the new government. Ac-
companied by a large delegation he will proceed to Nanking
in the middle of April. The purpose of his mission was,
besides that of offering felicitations, to conduct nego-
tiations with the Wang régime "regarding readjustment of
Sino-Japanese relations." It was also announced that the
Government would shortly establish an Embassy at Nanking
and that all of Japan's relations with China would be
centered in this new Embassy, which is to be supported
by a special council of diplomatic, military, and
economic advisers.
The
*Manking's telegram no. 28, March 30, 2 p.m.;
and Nanking's despatch no. 70, April 9, 1940.
*mmbassy's telegrams no. 215, March 30, 8 p.m.;
and no. 217, March 31, noon.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Th creation of the new central government was duly
heralded in the Japanese press, but considering the im-
portane that had been attached to the event during the
past almcst one year, there wes a manifest lack of any
marked enthusiasm. The point which appeared to drew the
particular attention of the press was the question vhether
foreign countries could be induced to recognize the new
government and through it Japan's "new order." The
country was also cautioned that it must not expect that
with this accomplishment the China incident was now, to
all intents and purposes, ended.
3. General relations...
During the month under review various official state-
ments were made concerning Japan's relations with China and
with the reletions of foreign powers with China.
On March 1l, the Foreign Minister is reported to have
said in the Diet that the formation of the proposed
Japanese-"Manchukuo"-Chinese economic bloc woula provide
for the full requirements of the three countries but with
as few limitations as possible on their relations vith
other countries. He also reportedly stated on the same
occasion that the contemplated customs union between the
three countries stould be considered separately from the
question of their relations with other countries. The
significance of these obscure statements appears to be that
the needs of the units forming the bloc are to be filled
from within the bloc before recourse is had to other nations.
on

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
On March 22, Major General Akira Muto, Director of the
Military Affairs Bureau of the Ministry of Tar, stated that
Japan would undertake to return its concessions in China
"as soon as the new order hes been accomplished" and will
take "suitable measures" jointly with China to effect the
restitution of the concessions by other powers.
The Minister of War, -on March 22, is reported to have
stated in effect that it was his opinion that the "China
incident" transcends the Nine Power Pact, and therefore
that instrument cannot restrict Japan in its military
operations.*
The press reported a statement made on Merch 22 at
Nanking by the chief of staff of the Japanese Army in China
to the effect that the new "Central Régime" will not recog-
nize the rights and interests of countries which withhold
diplomatic recognition from it.
A Japanese announcement was made on ..pril 18 that all
Chinese factories and mines then under Japanese control
would be turned over the Chinese régimes for their operation
to
or for eventual restoration to the original owners. This
action was hailed in Japan as conclusive proof of Japanese
sincerity as regards its treatment of and respect for the
rights of the Chinese, but whet this actually would mean in
view of the interest of the Japanese-sponsored monopolies in
all the important industrial and economic fields in the oc-
oupied areas of China was not so apparent.**
According to a statement released by the Foreign Office
on Maroh 15, there were 86,973 Japanese civilians residing in
China, exolusive of Manohuria, as of July 1, 1937, and 345,737
Japanese there as of January 1, 1940. The largest numbers of
Jepenese on both dates were living in North China.
(0)
asay's telegram no. 191, March 22, 6 p.m.
opelsstic Agencies Used by Japan in Exploiting the Economio
es of North China.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
(c) France
On Maroh 20 it was announced that the Franco-
Japanese trade agreement that had expired on March 15 had
been extended for one month and that negotiations had been
opened looking to the conclusion of a new agreement.*
Japanese trade with France last year amounted to some
ninety million yen in exports and forty-seven million yen
in imports.
No further Japanese bombing of the Haiphong-Yunnan
Railway reportedly occurred during March.
It was reported that a Japanese Consulate was opened
in March at Noumea, New Caledonia. It is to be noted in
connection with the opening of the consulate that Japan
imports nickel, copper, and other metals from New
Caledonia and also has made some investments in the non-
ferrous metal mines in that French colony.
(a) Russia
Japanese comment on the Soviet-Finnish peaoe, after
mentioning the favorable outcome to Russia and indirectly
to Germany, and at the same time praising the valiant re-
sistance put up by the Finns, speculated on the possibilities
of what Russia might do next, now that its hands were
again free. There was the feeling that Russia could be
expected shortly to initiate new moves, this time probably
in the southern European or Near East areas, but apprehen-
sion was expressed lest Soviet attention turn to the Far East.
There
*mbessy's telegram no. 187, March 21, 9 p.m.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
There were no new developments in the pending issues
between the two countries, such as the trade, border de-
limitation, and fisheries negotiations.* The fisheries
auction at Vladivostok on March 10 was carried off without
incident. The Japanese interests there lost three lots
normally allotted to them, which were bid in by the Soviets.
There were reports of some border clashes along the
"Manchukuo" and Saghalien borders. The newspapers con-
tinued to rail against the Soviets for their assistance to
the Chiang Kai-shek régime, and took particular note of the
report of Russian troops in northwest China.
(e) Italy
It was announced in the early part of March that a
Japanese economic mission would be sent to Italy and would
depart from Japan in April. The mission is to be headed by
Mr. Naotake Seto, former Foreign Minister, who is to be
invested with the rank for this occasion of Ambassador,
and is to include a number of important covernment officials
as well as prominent business men in Japan. The purpose
of the visit was announced to be to further commercial and
political relations between the two coutries.**
Japan
hoped, it was stated, to secure from Italy larger supplies
of mercury, machinery, salts, and other munitions materials.
The Japenese press predicted during the month that
Italy would be one of the first of the third powers to
recognize
*Embassy's telegram no. 160, March 8, 6 p.m.
**mabasay's telegram no. 183, March 18, 6 p.m., and
telegram no. 21l, March 28, 11 a.m.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
recognize the Wang Ching-wei régime after its establishment.
This view was also voiced by the Foreign Minister in the
Diet on March 22d.
(f) Spain
At the end of the month under review, an announcement
was made that a trade agreement with Spain had been con-
cluded at Madrid. The agreement provided for the import
to Japan from Spain of industrial salt, potassium, mercury,
etc., and export from Japan to Spain of various chemical
products, raw silk, rayon yarn, camphor, menthol, etc.
(g) India
Several days before the expiration of the Japanese-
Indian trade agreement on March 31, and following five
months of negotiation, a providional trade agreement was
reached with regard to the exchange of Japanese cotton
textiles for Indian raw cotton. No formal trade agreement
was concluded, and negotiations in this latter regard were
postponed. It was reported that the provisional agreement
provided for an increase from the present 283,000,000 yards
to 300,000,000 yards of Japanese textiles, to be exchanged
for one million bales of Indian raw cotton. Moreover,
exports of Japanese textiles could be increased on a sliding
scale up to 400,000,000 yards if 1,500,000 bales of raw
cotton from India were imported. Japanese cotton textiles
exporters were reported to have been not entirely pleased
with the accord, despite the increased quote, as a clause
bad

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
had been inserted in the agreement providing for higher
Indian import duties if the rupee exchange rate fell below
a certain level. It was also claimed that no provision
had been made to counteract the unfavorable position in
which the sales of Japanese textiles at present found
themselves due to the fall that had already occurred in the
exchange rate of the rupee.
(h) Netherlands East Indies
Publicity was given during the month under review to
reports that the Japanese Government was preparing to under-
756.94
take shortly negotiations at Batavia with the Netherlands
East Indies for an adjustment of the trade relations between
Japan and the Netherlands possessions. It was stated in
these reports that Japan was motivated in its desire to con-
clude new trede arrangements with the Netherlands Tast Indies
by its needs for raw materials which are obtainable there.
Of secondary importance, it was said, was the hope to be
able to export more goods to the Indies. Japan was particu-
larly looking to the Dutch colony as a large source of oil
and scrap iron and, again, as in its concern over its trade
with other parts of the world, Japan's special attention
was presently being given to these materials, among others,
because of its apprehension that their importation might
possibly be curtailed or shut off from American souroes.
It was also alleged in Japan, that following the out-
break of the European hostilities in the fall of lest year,
the Netherlands authorities had placed the exportation of
o1l, gutta percha, rubber, scrap iron, tin, and certain
other produets under a license system, and had thereafter
bogun

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
begun to adopt a policy of giving preferential treatment
to the needs of European countries for these products.
This, it is held, has rendered it difficult for Japan to
import the raw materials in such quantities as she re-
quires. It is hoped to alleviate this situation through
the coming negotiations. Some obstacles it is admitted
will be encountered in effecting satisfactory arrangements,
not only because of the colonial economy of the Netherlands
islands and their connection with European countries, but
also because of the strong capitalistic influence of Britain
and the United States there, and, with particular regerd
to petroleum, because the oil fields there, the present and
potential value of which is considered to be very important,
are largely operated by and under the control of British
and American interests. Mention was also made of the in-
sistence in the past on the part of the business interests
in the islands that Japan import Indiea sugar, and it was
predicted that Japan might agree to purchase a certain
amount of sugar if the Netherlands authorities will permit
large exports of the other goods urgently wanted by Japan.
Japanese trade with the Netherlands East Indies has
played an important role in Japan's international commercial
relations. Since the World War that colony has ranked in
never less than fifth place in Japan's export trade, at
times taking more even than China, and last year more than
the whole of Latin America. For years the trade has been
very favorable to this country, last year exports being
elmost double imports in value. The figures for Japanese
trede with the Netherlands East Indies for 1939 were approxi-
mmtely 189,800,000, exports, and pproximately ¥72,000,000
soorts.
(1)

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
(1) Argentina
On March 15, it was announced, a reciprocal trade
agreement was concluded at Buenos Aires between Argentina
and Japan. The agreement provides for a yearly exchange
of Japanese goods to the value of Yen 30,000,000 for
Argentine products of equal value. Japan is to include in
the value freight and insurance charges to Argentina and
exclude those charges in the value of the imports from
Argentina. The barter is to involve some twenty-two articles.
(j) General international relations
It will be recalled (..eference report for February 1940)
that Japan had launched since the beginning of the year a con-
certed drive to expand and increase its world trade, par-
ticularly with South America, the South Seas area, and south-
ern European countries, primarily to counteract the importance
its
of the position that trade with the United tates currently
holds in its national economy. This program received con-
tinued stress and publicity during the month under review.
Besides the announced trade arrangements contemplated or con-
cluded with various countries that have been mentioned in
this and the Embassy's previous monthly report, it was an-
nounced that a Mexican economic missicn had been invited to
come to Japan as well as one from Paraguey and one from
Canada. Further announcements were made during the month
that Mr. Sotomatsu Kato, at present serving as Minister-at-
Large in China, would be sent to Central and South American
countries for trade promotion work and that trade conferences
are to be held in Buenos Aires in May and in Washington in
June by the chiefs of the Japanese missions in the Americas.*
In
*mbassy's telegram no. 210, Maroh 28, 7 p.m.

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
In order to insure the success of its program to
conclude barter agreements with certain countries, the
Government has reportedly ado ted a more lenient atti-
tude towards the importation of non-essential commodities
and will relax its import restrictions now in force.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS
(a) Diet
The high lights in the somewhat uneventful proceedings
of the Diet during March were the ccutinued repercussions
of the Saito incident and the charge made on the floor of
the Lower House that the British expression of regret over
the ASAMA MARU incident was Eained by a promise of the
Government not to transport German passengers of military
age on Japanese ships.
After further discussion during the first few days of
the month and certain changes in the composition of the
disciplinary committee of the Diet, that committee unani-
mously voted on March 6 for Mr. Saito's expulsion, and on
the next day its recommendation was approved by the Diet
in oamera.*
As a manifestation to the country and to the world of
Japanese solidarity and unity of purpose, a resolution was
unanimously passed on March 9 by the Diet pledging united
support to the Government's "definite and unalterable"
polioy regarding the "China incident."
The
*mbassy's despatch no. 4602, March 20, 1940.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
The Prime Minister expressed at the closing meeting
of the Diet the Governmont's complete satisfaction with the
accomplishments of its 75th session, but the vernacular
press generally held that the session was a comparatively
barren one. Despite the fact that over a hundred legisla-
tive measures were enacted, the proceedings were claimed
to have accomplished little of a constructive nature. The
Diet members were chastized for meaningless interpellations
that were often directed more at heckling the Government
than eliciting informative replies on importent matters.
Complaint was also made of the deep secrecy with which the
Government insisted on shrouding the vital affairs of the
country from knowledge of the Diet and the people.
(b) Political parties
Reverberations from the Saito case were evident in all
the political parties, and the cleavage in political thought
brought into the open by Mr. Caito's remarks cut indiscrimi-
nately across party lines. One or two members resigned from
the Minseito, another group tendered their resignation from
the Kuhara faction of the Seiyukai, but through the efforts
of the party president, their differences with the party were
finally made up. The Social Mass Party, however,
split
up, with its president, r. Isao Abe,leading nine other mem-
bers out of the party, reducing its size to negligible
proportions. Indications in the background were also seen
of a revival of the movement for the formation of a new
national party.*
Further
mbessy's despatoh no. 4602, March 20, 1940

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
Further disturbing effects were left by remarks
made by Major-General Akira Muto of the ar Office, when
on Marcih 19 he stated that the Army was determined to
seak, "y legal means", the dissolution of political
parties which fail to rid themselves of self-interest
and to cooperate in carrying out the national policies.
General Muto, in his address before a committee of the
Diet, acting apparently as spokesman for the Army, stated
that "all kinds of liberalism based on individualism"
must be set aside during the present emergency, in order
that Japan may achieve a concerted and united national
purpose. He said that in the world of today nationalistic
ideas and conceptions must prevail in all that pertains to
national security and economy, and that, finally, for
Japan to pass through the present situetion successfully,
it must adhere to the idea generally known abroad as
totalitarianism.
The primary cause for the Army's present disfavor of
the political parties, which General Muto's remarks were
interpreted as implying, lay evidently in Mr. Saito's
inquiry into the Government's policy for the prosecution
of the China incident and the consequent difference of
opinion.
(c) Position of the Government
The Government was considered to have come through
the Diet period in fairly good order. Some criticism was
voioed that it had managed to hold on by "muddling through,"
using the Saito affair as a fortuitous means to get needed
support. It was predicted that the coming few months
would

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
would be hazardous ones for the Government in its imple-
mentation of its policies concerning internal economic
problems and foreign affairs.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
The Diet enacted 134 of the 136 bills presented by the
Government. Twenty-six measures concerned the budget and
other fiscal matters and were passed without amendment.
Forty-five tax bills were also approved but with some amend-
ments. There were a number of revisions of existing laws.
The principal important new measures enacted were: ooal
distribution control law, charcoal supply and distribution
law, law for the establishment of a Government fertilizer
company, law for the inspection of agricultural products,
law for the promotion of the export of agricultural products,
law for the extension of export subsidies to manufacturers;
law for state control of casualty reinsurance, and a law for
the sterilization of the hereditary insane and feeble-minded.
There was a good deal of opposition over the coal distribu-
tion law providing for Government subsidies to coal companies.
It was criticized as being a futile gesture that would entail
a waste of money.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
The final issue of national bonds scheduled for flotation
during the 1939-40 fiscal year was made on March 29, when a
blook of Yen 465,000,000 was offered. Rate of bond ab-
sorption improved slightly during the month under review and
was reported at 81%. In the 1939-1940 fiscal year ending
Maroh 31, the amount of domestic bonds outstanding increased
by Yen 5,562,935,000, bringing the domestic national indebted-
ness to Yen 21,628,073,000. Japan's foreign indebtedness
was

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
was reported to amount to Yen 1,257,886,000, repre-
senting a slight decrease from the year before. The
note issue continued to remain very large, representing
at the end of the month an increase of Yen 1,162,000,000
over that of the same period a year ago and only half
a billion drop from the end of last year, when the
record high was established.
Budget and tax program for fiscal year l940-41.
The final budget estimates as approved by the Diet
provided for Government expenditures in the next fiscal
year of Yen 10,557,000,000. Through the addition of two
supplementary amounts, the original estimates proposed
by the previous cabinet were increased by Yen 275,000,000.
The coming year's estimates exceeded by over a billion,
two hundred million yen those for the year before. Yen
4,460,000,000 was contained in the speciel account for
the financing of the China incident, the remainder in
the general accounts. Some seventy per cent of the
entire budget was reportedly to be for military
expenditures.
Slightly over Yen 6,000,000,000 of the total amount
is to be raised by new bond issues during the coming
fiscal year. To absorb surplus currency and attract
funds from small investors a bill was enacted to provide
for the issuance of some Yen 500,000,000 in semi-1ottery
bonds which by draw would pay large premiums.
Question arose in the Diet whether the amount of the
budget would cover the government expencitures planmed
for the new fiscal year, as the budget had been compiled
on the basis of the average commodity prices for the
latter part of l938, whereas since that time prices have
comsiderably risen, reportedly by more than thirty per cent.
pears

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
Fears were also expressed that the continued dis-
bursement of large government funds is liable to push
the country dangerously close to the brink of "vicious"
inflation.
Further note was made that the increase in the past
few years for military expenditures would be permanent
and were expected by the Government itself to continue
to rise further in the future. The Prime Minister
stated, concerning this observation, that the Government
felt that the economic strength of the country was such
that it could bear the present burden and further demands
on it besides as time goes on.
To realize the more than four billion yen revenue
that estimatedly would be obtained from taxes, sweeping
increases in taxation, both horizontal to cover more
sources of revenue and vertical to enlarge the revenue
from direct and indirect taxes already imposed, was
resorted to. A far-reaching system of graduated and
surtax income taxes was set up; while many forms of
corporate and corporate profit, luxury, transaction,
and sales taxes were either increased or newly imposed.
It was estimated that the yield on the income tax would
be equivalent to Yen 54 per capita. In the final com-
promise made by the Government to meet the objections of
the Diet, among other changes, the basic tax exemption
limit was raised on wages from Yen 600 to Yen 720 annually
and on income from business from Yen 400 to Yen 500.
In order to meet the increased demand for funds
next year, the goal for national saving was set at
twelve billion yen, two billions above that set for the
yoar

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
year just ended. A fixed limit of one billion yen
for Japan proper and eight hundred million yen for
"Manchukuo" was to be made for funds to be raised by
private business through debentures. This repre-
sented a curtailment from that of the past year of
an estimated thirty per cent.
On March 2, the Finance Minister stated to the
Diet that the national indebtedness that was being
created "no matter how much it increases," will be
easily liquidated with the expansion of the nation's
economic resources resulting from the economic associa-
tion of Japan, "Manchukuo", and China.
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC ANL FININCLAL CONDITIONS*
It was generally felt that the scope and intensity
of official control would be greatly extended from the
beginning of the 1940-4l fiscal year beginning April 1.
The Commerce and Industry Minister stated that the
Government intended soon to have a series of measures
ready for the adjustment of virtually all essential
prices, production expension, restricted consumption,
and improved distribution.
There were a number of new regulations imposed
during March. Upward price revisions were made covering
a wide range of commodities; control over the distribution
of sulphate of ammonia and other chemical fertilizers
and industrial chemicals was established; control over
iron and steel was also strengthened, with a new official
organization
*Prepared with the assistance of the Office of the
Commercial Attaché.

=== Page 189 === (confidence 1.00)
-31-
organization to be known as the Japan Iron and Steel
Association formed to regulate production and distri-
bution in those materials.
Business was reportedly active during the month,
and with an improvement in the electric power and coal
situation industrial activity increased over that for
the previous month. The stock market was firm.
The weakness of sterling and the rise of the yen-
sterling rate to ls.4d. on March l8th caused considerable
uneasiness in Japanese export circles in view of the
importance of the British Empire market in Japan's foreign
trade. Toward the close of the month there was con-
siderable agitation for the Government to take imme-
diate steps to cope with the unfavorable situation to
Japan's exports threatened by the weakness of the pound.
Retail commodity prices and living costs showed
further advances during March, in continuetion of the
trend which has been evident, despite the Government's
efforts to check it, since the beginning of the China
hostilities. Retail prices according to Government
statistics were up by l.8 per cent over those for the
previous month, the cost of living by a little over
1.5 per cent. This brought the increase since June 1937
as officially estimated by the Government, to 5l.5% for
retail prices and around 36% for cost of living. Whole-
sale prices on the other hand were officially estimated
to have deolined by .5 per cent during the month, redueing
the officially estimated rise in that index since June
1937 to 34.6 per cent.
Foreign

=== Page 190 === (confidence 1.00)
-32-
Foreign trade
Preliminary foreign trede figures for arch
placed the value of exports at Yen 367,869,C00 and
imports at Yen 379,60l,000 which represented a sub-
stantial increase in both categories over the previous
month and 30 per cent increase in exports and a 35
per cent gain in imports over the corresponding month
of the previous year. Japan proper's trade with the
yen bloc, including Hong Kong, amounted in exports to
Yen 181,393,000 and in imports to Yen 77,094,000,
representing an increase of 50 per cent in exports and
30 per cent increase in imports
the year before.
Japan's foreign trade for the first quarter of
the year amounted to Yen 918,000,000 for exports and
Yen 991,058,000 for imports, leaving an unfavorable
balance of Yen 72,000,000. The total trade for this
period showed an increase of slightly over 30 per cent
as compared with the corresponding three months of
last year. On the face of these figures it would appear
that a considerable improvement had been made in Japan's
foreign trade but the increase was accounted for prin-
cipally in value, through the 15% depreciation of the
yen and higher prices for many commodities. The actual
trade by volume was little changed. As regards Japan's
trade with foreign currency countries (those outside of
the ven bloc), Japan had for the three months an un-
favorable balance of Yen 282,033,000 as compared with an
unfavorable balance of Yen 199,091,000 for the corres-
ponding period of last year.
Japan

=== Page 191 === (confidence 1.00)
-33-
Japan proper's trade with the yen bloc, including
Hong Kong, for the first three months of the year amounted
to Yen 439,887,000 in exports and Yen 203,985,000 in
imports. Imports increased only by some forty million yen
over the corresponding period of the year before but
exports were vastly increased by over one hundred fifty
million yen.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS
Nothing to report.

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
March 1940
No.Date
Subject
4550
March 2
Acknowledgment of gift of books from
Yale University Press
4551
March 2
Diplomotic visa report
4552
March 4
Oath of Office, S. Sugimura, Translater
4553
March 4
Japanese expression of appreciation for
facilities extended to shipwrecked crew
of DAI ICHI SAIHO MRU
4554
March 6
Pacifio Mercado anc "orld's Fair
4555
March 6
Visit to the U.S. of Count Kabuyama
4556
March 4
Growing shortages in basic commodities
and daily necessities
4557
March 7
Identification of U.S.Coast Gucrd air-
craft engaged in neutrality patrol
4558
March 7
Japanese burning of English Mission,
Chuchia, Shantung.
4559
March 7
British representations re protection of
property in China and reservation of right:
4560
March 8
Employment of American messenger.
4561
March 6
American share of sealskins taken on
Robben Island during 1939
4562
March 8
Japanese bombing of Evangelical Church
Mission, Liling, Hunan
Christian and
4563
March 9
Japanese bombing of-Missionary Alliance
property, Siushan, Szechuan
4564
March 9
Search by Japanese military of Southern
Baptist Mission, Laichow, Shantung
4565
March 9
Japanese bombing of Southern Baptist
Mission property, Laichow, Shantung
4566
Maroh 9
Interference by Japanese radio station
JND with U.S.Naval radio station NSS
4567
March 9
Living quarters allowance, S.Sugimura
4568
March 9
Clerk hire allotment for fiscal year 1940
4569
March 9
Diplomatic visa report

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4570 March 11
Reply of Japanese Foreign Office to repre
sentations re bombing of Yunnan Railwey
and American rejoinder
4571
March 11
Special tax on kerosene and gasoline en-
forced by Municipal Tax Bureau at Canton
4572 March 11
Japanese seizure of floating oquipment of
Stenderd-Vacuum Oil Company,Nantungchcw
4573
March 11
Subsoription to New York Herald Tribune
4574
March 11
General review of Japan's relations with
the principal powers having interests in
the Far East and survey of Japan's intern-
situation during 1939
4575
March 12
Japanese seizure of personal belongings
of Bishop Philippe Cote of Catholic
Mission, Hsuchow, Kiangsu
4576
March 12
Japanese bombing of property of alter G.
Berger Company, Swatow, Kwangtung
4577
March 13
Japanese bombin of Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company installation at Yiyang, Hunan
4578
March 13
Japanese bombing of American Church
Mission, Ichang, Hupeh
4579
March 13
Japanese bombing of American Catholic
Mission, Kochow, Kwangtung
4580
March 13
Japanese shelling of property of United
Brethren Mission, Siulam, Chungshan,
Kwangtung
4581
March 13
JAPAN TIMES reproduction of article from
NT YORK TIMS of November 30,1919:
""hat the Japanese have stood for in
World War" by Theodore Roosevelt.
4582
March 13
JAFAN TIMES article: "Room for optimism
seen in U.S.-Japan relations."
4583
March 13
JAPAN TINES article: "EmbargO opponent
may be next president of U.S.A."
4584
March 13
Sixth quarter examination of R.J.Blake
4585
March 13
Information with regard to the English
language press in Tokyo
4586
March 14
Conversation between the Ambassador and
the Minister for Foreign Affairs

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
4587
March 14
Prime Minister's statement of March 13
re Japan's policy toward China
4588
March 14
Personnel
4589
March 14
Egg trade restrictions in Yangtze Vailey
4590
March 14
Japanese-Netherlands relations
4591
March 14
Japanese bombing of Lutheran Brethrer
Mission, Tungpeh, Honan
4592
March 15
Japanese interference with Andersen,
Meyer and Company, Ltd. at Hsuchowfu
4593
March 15
Address made by Mr. Dooman
4594
March 15
Customs privileges for consular officers
4595
March 15
Suppression of GAIKO JIHO (Diplomatic
Review) of February 1,1940, Because of
article dealing with Chine incident
4596
March 15
Foreign Office spokesman's remarks re
Japanese-American relations and
Soviet-Japanese relstions
4597
March 16
Diplomatic visa report
4598
March 18
Proposed incresse in rent of lands occu-
pięd by Embεssy end Yolohama Consulate
4599
March 19
Identification of U.3.Coast Guard aircraft
engaged in neutrelity petrol
4600
March 19
Golden Gate Internetionel Exposition 1940
4601
March 19
British-Japanese negotiations concerning
Tientsin silver question
✓ 4602
March 20
Mr. Tekao Saito's Diet interpellation:
Resignation of Hr. Saito
4603
March 23
Diplomatic vise report
4604
March 23
CONTEMPORARY OPIITOINS article re Japen's
policies towerd Soviet Union end U..!.
4605
March 26
Possible sale of Government-owned plot
of ground in Yokohama
4606
March 26
JAPAN DVERTISER clipping: Ne oil
supplies sought by Soviet"
4607
March 26
Japanese interference with direction
finding service of U.S.Navel Communica-
tions system
4608
Merch 26
Leave of absence, Mr. M.Fujimoto.
4609
March 26
Remarks at Pan-Pacific Club luncheon
by Mr. David T. Ray

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
4610
March 27
JAPAN ADVERTISER clipping: "Antarctic
regions claimed by group"
4611
March 27
Monthly report, February 1940
4612
March 29
Stationing of U..Coast Guard vessels
in North Atlantic for weather
observation
4613
March 29
Japanese bombing of Anerica Church
Mission, Kingtehchen, Kiangsi
4614
March 22
Post report, Embassy, Tokyo.
4615
March 29
Identification of U.s.Coast Guaru
aircraft engaged in neutrality patrol
4616
March 29
Coal supply at Hawaiian ports
4617
March 29
Anglo-Japanese negotiations re Tientsin
4618
March 29
Press report of conversation between
Premier Daladier and r. Kusuyama.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
March 1940
No.Date
Subject
149
March 1, 8 p.m.
Arrest and detention of James R.Young
150
March 2, 10 a.m. Ditto
151
March 4, noon
Japanese mandated islands
152
March 5, 11 a.m.
Japanese interference with U.S.
Naval Radio Direction Finding Service
153
March 5, 4 p.m.
British-Japanese conversations re
Tientsin silver question
154
March 6, 10 a.m, Cost of shippin€ archives to U.S.A.
155
March 6,7 p.m.
Japanese reply re bombing of
Yunnan railway
156
March 7, 3 p.m.
Installation of radio receiver in
Embassy
157
March 7, 6 p.m.
Japanese-American relations; opening
of the Yangtze River.
158
March B, noon
Requisitions
159
March 8, 1 psm.
Codes
160
March 8, 6 p.m.
Soviet-Japanese relations: boundary
negotiations; fisheries.
161
March 9, 3 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations re
Tientsin silver question
162
March 9, 4 p.m.
Detention and trial of James R.Young
163
March 9, 5 p.m.
American loan to China.
164
March 9, 10 p.m.
Rumor of recall of Ambassador
Horinouchi
165
March 11, 6 p.m.
Japanese-American relations: Foreign
Office spokesman's press conference.
166
March 1l, 7 p.m. Trial of James R. Young
167
March 12, noon
Representations re bombing of
Haiphorg-Yunnan Railway
168
March 12, 3 p.m. Japanese-Netherlands relations

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
169
March 12, 4 p.m.7
Japanese-American relations: state-
ment of Foreign Office spekesman
170
March 12, 5 p.m.
Japanese-Netherlands relations
171
March 12, 6 p.m.
Japanese-American relations: press
comment re statement of Foreign
Office spokesman on March 11.
172
March 13, 4 p.m.
Japanese-American relations:
Foreign Office spokesman!s statement
173
March 13, 5 p.m.
Japanese-American relations:
U S. loan to China; trade relations.
174
March 13, 6 p.m.
Japanese interference with
Andersen, Meyer & Co. at Shanghai
175
March 13, 7 p.m.
Proposed air mail service between
the United States and Japan.
176
March 13, 8 p.m.
Frime Minister's statement re
Japan's China policy.
177
March 15, 5 p.m.
Press comment re Japan-U.S. relations
178
March 15, 7 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations re
Tientsin silver question.
179
March 15, 8 p.m.
Prime Minister's statement re
Japan's China policy
180
March 15, 9 p.m.
Trial of James R. Young
181
Narch 16, 5 p.m.
Codes
182
March 16, 10 a.m.
Visit of Sir Stafford Cripps: his
misquotation of Ambassador's remarks
re military dictatorship in Japan
0 183
March 18, 6 p.m.
ForthcominE Japanese mission to
Italy
184
March 19, 5 p.m.
Proposed revision of fur seals
convention
185
March 20, 11 a.m.
Representations re oil monopoly
in Namhoi district
186
March 21, 7 p.m.
Newspaper reports of Ambassador's
retirement from Japan

=== Page 198 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
187
March 21, 9 p.m.
French-Japanese commercial agreome
188
March 22, 11 a.m.
Codes
189
March 22, noon
Codes
190
March 22, 1 p.m.
Codes
191
March 22, 6 p.m.
Minister of var's statement re
Nine Power Treaty
192
March 22, 7 p.m.
Trial of James R. Young:sentence.
193
March 22, 9 p.m.
Visas issued to Messrs. Kojima
and Minakuchi
194
Maroh 22, 8 p.m.
Trial of James R.Young:release
195
March 23, noon
Quarters and cost of living
allowances: ".T.Turner
196
March 23, 2 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations
re Tientsin silver question: draft
formula
197
March 23, 3 p.m.
Visit to the United States of
Messrs. Kojima and Minakuchi
198
March 23, 4 p.m.
Embassy gardener
199
March 23, 7 p.m.
Japanese-American relations:
Foreign Minister's reply to Diet
interpellation
200
March 24, 4 p.m.
Japanese-American relations: Prime
Minister's statement re U.S. attitudc
201
March 25, 11 a.m.
Departure of Mr. Crocker on leave
202
March 25, 4 p.m.
Departure of Mr. Benninghoff for
Peiping
203
March 25, 5 p.m.
Press reports of ashington despatch
re Ambassador's retirement from Japan
204
March 27, 11 a.m.
Ambassador's leave of absence
205
March 27, noon
Ambassador's published denial of
reports of his retirement
206
March 27, 3 p.m.
Visit of Britisn Ambassador to U.S.A.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
207
March 27, 5 p.m.
Andersen Merer & Co., Shanghal,
Representations re interest in
flour mill at Hsuchcw
208
March 28, 4 p.m.
Shipment of archives to New York
209
March 28, 5 p.m.
Japanese-American relations:
Newspaper article re U 3. attitude
210
March 28, 7 p.m.
Japan's foreign trade
V211
March 28, 11 a.m.
Japanese mission to Italy headed
by Mr. Naotake Sato
212
March 29, 7 p.m.
CITY OF JOLIT strended in Japan.
213
March 30, 1 p.m.
Trial of James R. Young: final
judgment
214
March 30, 7 p.m.
Press comment re Japanese-American
relations, and Ambassador's leave
215
March 30, 8 p.m.
Japanese Government statement re
new Wang Ching-wei régime in China
216
March 31, 11 a.m.
Statements of Covernment and Foreign
Minister re new ang régime
217
March 31, noon
Foreign Minister's statement re
new Tang régime in China.

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
STAT
1940 JUN 3 PM 4 OMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4715
Tve Lay 15 19
COMMUHIU ALLONS
REPORT OF CONDAND
SUBJECT:
MONTH OF APRIL 1940
Citily in FE
OFFITE OF TIP ADVASER ON
W
FFARS
GLJUN 1 3 1940
D
DEranlMENt OF STATE
WwAy
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
894.00 P.R./149
C.
COPIES S10
120
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
No
USA
CLNI
Wething ton
M IA
Sir:
With refarence to the Department's instruction
no. 93 of July 23, 1926.  have the honor to transmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions
in Japan for the month of April 1940.
Respecrfylly yours,
Joseph . Grew
Enclosure
Report n). 163
800
JE:mg
F/A
In quintuplicaue to the verarcment
Copies to Embassies ping. Chungking, Moscow.
Copies to Consuletes General: Shanghai, Mukden, Harbin,
Secul, Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates: Dalren, Osaka, Kobe. Nagasaki,
Nagoya, Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to High Commissioner of the Philippine Islands
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.96)
No. 163
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF AFRIL 1940

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X A N D S U M M A R Y
pages
I. RELATIONS VITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) Japanese reaction to the Secretary
of State's statement on March 30,
concerning the Nanking régime
1,2
(b) American and Japanese relations
with the Netherlands East Indies
2,3
(c) Japanese attitude concerning
Philippine immigration legislation
3-5
(d) Bombings of American properties
in China
5
(e) Continued Japanese interference
at Tientsin with American rights
and interests
5,6
(f) Further representations made by
the Embassy in April
6, 7
(ε) General relations
7-10
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Great Britain
1. Tientsin question
10,11
2. Norwegian and Danish shipping
11,12
(b) China
1. Military operations
13
2. General relations
13
(c) France
14
(d) Soviet Russia
14
(e) Netherlands East Indies
14,15
(f) Latin America
16
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL AFFAIRS
(a) Foreign Office
17
(b) Army
17
(c) Official price control and
regulation of national economy
17-19
IV.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
IV. COURSE CF LEGISLATION
19
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
3.9
VI. GENERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
0-23
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS 23
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN CONMERCIAL INTLRESTS
23
IX。 LABOR
23
X. MISCELLANEOUS
23

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS ITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) Japanese reaction to the Secratary of State'
statement on March 30, concerning the
Nanking régime
On April 1, the spokesman of the Foreign Office
commented in a press interview upon Mr. Hull's statement
of March 30 concerning the establishment of the "new
central régime" at Nanking. After saying that corsider-
ing the United States Government's attitude toward the
China Affair the statement was a natural outcome, he
proceeded to assail it as being 'blind and inconsistent"--
blind to "the new developments taking place in China" and
inconsistent with the American Government's note of De-
cember 30, 1938, to the Japanese Government in which it was
declared that the United States "is well aware of the changes
that are taking place in the Far East." Mr. Suma further
declared that the statement disregards the efforts that
Japan has been making and the assurances it has Eiven to
ameliorate Japanese-American relations instead of being
patient and waiting a reasonable length of time for the
assurances to materialize; that it is not true, as the
statement charges, that the Japanese Army placed ang
Ching-wei in his present position or that Japan is attempting
to set up an economic bloc against the rest of the world;
and that, as the statement will instigate anti-Japanese
groups in the United States and will also be a factor in
immensely encouraging the Chungking Government, against
which Japan is engaged in hostilities, it is incompatible
with the holding of Japanese-American discussions in a
constructive spirit.*
The
*Tmbassy's telegram no. 222, April 1, 7 p.m.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The Foreign Minister merely stated that the Secretary's
statement was not unexpected, that if the new government
enjoys the confidence of the Chinese people, in his view
third powers cannot but recognize it in the end, and that
at any rate Japan must exert its efforts towards bringing
about a status of the new régime which merits recognition.*
The press also showed little surprise over the Secretary's
statement, asserting that it was to be expected, and in its
comments generally reiterated the sentiments expressed by
the Foreign Minister.
.Some mention wes made of the United
States being quick to set forth its position as regards the
Wang régime--the United States had taken an obdurate,
doctrinarian and uncompromising position in the matter in
contrast with Great Britain and France, which countries,
although they mey not be expected to recognize the new
régime, can probably be counted on to a certain extent to
cooperate with the Nanking régime primarily for the purpose
of protecting their interests in China.**
(b) American and Japanese relations with the
Netherlands East Indies
There was published in full in Japan the statement of
the Secretary of State released on April 17 referring to
the statement made by the Japanese Minister for Foreign
Affairs on April 15, in which the latter expressed concern
on the part of the Japanese Government for the maintenence
of the status guo of the Netherlands East Indies.
There
*Embassy's telegram no. 218, April 1, noon.
**mbassy's telegrams no. 226, April 2, 5 p.m., and
no. 228, Apr11 3, 10 a.m.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
There was no official comment on Mr. Hull's statement,
the press announcing in this regard that the Japanese
Goverment had decided that such was not called for. The
vernacular newspapers, however, were voluble on the subject.
One paper observed that, although Mr. Hull's statement
was substantially similar to that of Mr. Arita, the American
attitude implied in the statement--of interfering unneoes-
sarily in the estern Pacific--is "unfriendly" and "unin-
telligible." The Tashington Conference treaties could not
be considered to be any longer applicable. The United
States should realize that Japan has much more intimate and
important connections with the Netherlands Indies than has
the United States. The Netherlands Government's expression
of appreciation of and complete agreement with the Japanese
Covernment's attitude was, moreover, to be considered as
the only important factor and rendered M1. Hull's "third
party statement unnecessary.*
(See section herein below concerning Japanese relations
with the Netherlands East Indies)
(c) Japanese attitude concerning Philippine
immigration legislation
Concern and agitation were manifested in Japan during
the month under review regarding the immigration bill being
deliberated by the Philippine National Assembly providing
for a restriction of the total number of immigrants of each
nationality to five hundred each year. On that day it was
reported in the press that Japan had lodged a protest with
the
*mbassy's telegrams no. 265, April 19, 12 p.m.;
no. 273, April 22, 1 p.m.; no. 276, Apr1l 22, 10 p.m.;
Imbassy's despatch no. 4667, April 23, 1940.

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
the United States Government at ashington against the
restriction of Philippine immigration to five hundred
nationals of each country "without providing for special
consideration for Japarese." This "special consideration"
it was stated arose from an understanding said to have been
reached last year between Mr. Suma, then Counselor of
Embassy at ashington, and an official of the Division of
Far Eastern Affairs of the State Department. In the same
press report Mr. Suma, the spokesman of the Foreign Office,
was quoted to the effect that the number of Japanese immi-
grants to the Philippines during the last few years had
averaged almost twenty-eight hundred; that, moreover,
while Japan welcomed the absence of racial or national
discrimination in the bill, the present measure would in
effect injure the interests of Japan; and that Japan is
justified in expecting the Philippine Legislature to take
into consideration the contribution made by the Japanese to
the prosperity of the islands.
It is to be noted that the Japanese Ambassador at
Washington called at the Lepartment on April 20 and requested
that the Department urge the Philippine Government to allow
nationals of Japan, along with those of all other countries,
to immigrate into the Philippines in the number of one
thousand instead of five hundred and that the request was
transmitted to the Philippine Government. No commitment
was made by the Department to sponsor an exception in favor of
Japan as regards Philippine immigration. According to the
statistics compiled by the Philippine authorities, the average
net immigration from Japan during the last thirty-five year
period was only 640 persons and for the last fifteen years
only 930 persons.*
The
*Department's telegram no. 124, April 22, 7 p.m.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
The press reported that Japan was watching the situa-
tion and would follow future developments with great care.
In the original press report on the matter and in several
press editorials it was stated that the United States
directly participated in the work of drafting the measure,
which is regarded as a part of "a series of acts of
oppression against Japan", including American naval
maneuvers, assistance to the Chineee Government through
commercial loans, the American attitude of "meddling into
the question of the Netherlands Indies," et cetera.*
(d) Bombings of American properties in China.
In conformity with the Department's instructions**
the Ambassador, on April 23, orelly to the Vice Minister
for Foreign Affairs, and in a first person note to the
Foreign Minister emphatically protested against the recent
recrudescence of Japanese bombings of American properties
in China. In these representations there were emphasized
the gravity of the incidents and the concern of the United
States over continuance of the attacks of the Japanese mili-
tary on American properties.***
No publicity was given in Japan either to the bombing
incidents or to the Ambassador's representations.
(e) Continued Japanese interference at Tientsin
with American rights and interests.
On April 23 the Ambassador, conformably with the
Department's instructions**** made emphatic representations
to
*Embassy's telegrams no. 274, April 22, 2 p.m.;
no. 280, April 23, 11 p.m.; no. 281, Apri1 24, 1 p.m.;
no. 294, April 28, 10 p.m.; despatch n0. 4668, Apri1 25.
**Department's telegram no. 115, April 15, 5 p.m.
***Embassy's telegram no. 277, April 23, 4 p.m., and
despatoh no. 4671, April 24, 1940.
****Department's telegram no. 119, April 18, 7 p.m.

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
to the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the
continued interference with the movement of American citizens
and of American-owned merchandise at Tientsin by the Japanese
armed forces and their agencies at the barriers set up by
the Japanese military on the borders of the British and
French concessions there. In the pro memoria left by the
Ambassador with Mr. Tani, reference was made to the Em-
bassy's previous representaticns in this regard; there
were cited the numerous incidents of uncivil and obstructive
treatment recently accorded by Japanese agents to Americans
and American goods; and request was made that further
instruction from Tokyo be issued to the Japanese authorities
at Tientsin to rectify this situation.* In a release by
the Foreign Office publicity was given to the Ambassador's
representations. It was merely announced that he had
stated "that American nationals in Tientsin are reatly
inconvenienced on accourt of the recent tightening of the
Tientsin blockade."**
(f) Further representations made by the
mbassy in April.
The Embassy made further representations  during April
in the following instances:
1. In regard to continued interference by the Japanese
radio station JID with American naval radio communications.***
2.
*Embassy's telegram no. 278, April 23, 5 p.m.;
Embassy's despatch :0. 4669, April 24, 1940;
Department's telegram no. 126, April 24, 10 a.m.
**Embassy's telegram no. 279, April 23, 6 p.m.
***Department's telegram no. 107, April 2, 7 p.m.;
Embassy's telegram no. 236, April e, 5 p.m.;
Embassy's despatches no. 4643, April 10, and
no. 4656, Apr11 15, 1940.

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
2. In regard to the continued detention of e
Philippine citizen, Marcelo Tan, by the local authorities
at Amoy.*
3. In regard to the bombing of the American Catholic
Mission, Linchwan, Kwangsi, on April 14, 1940.**
4. In regard to the bombing of the American Catholic
Mission, Chihkiang, Hunan, on April 12, 1940.***
(g) General relations
At the end of March and in the first part of April much
attention was given to the annual American naval maneuvers,
conducted this year in the Pacific Ocean. Reports appeared
in the press that the maneuvers might be extended beyond
the international date line into the western Pacific area.
Much note was also taken of the continued discussions in
the United States over the question whether or not the
naval
facilities at Guam should be improved and the
island fortified. On March 28 the Japanese navy spokesman
informed press correspondents thet if the Americen naval
maneuvers were held east of the l80th meridian the Jepanese
navy had no comment to make, but that if they extended west
of that line they would be regarded as aggressive. The tone
of the press in comment ing on this sub ject was resentful and
defiant. The view was expressed that the maneuvers were
being
*Department's telegram no. 109, April 6, 3 p.m.;
Embassy's telegram no. 238, April 8, 7 p.m.
**Embassy's telegram no. 263, April 19, 7 p.m.;
and despatch no. 4670, April 24, 1940.
***Embassy's telegram no. 277, April 23, 4 p.m.; and
Embessy's despatch no. 4671, April 24, 1940

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
being held as demonstrations against Japan end were motivated
by political considerations rising out of American-Japanese
issues concerning China.* On April 17 the Navy Minister
issued a statement describing the Amsricen maneuvers as a
usual and annual event and not to be linked with the es-
tablishment of the new Central Government in China, as the
press had intimated in its reports. He added that if,
however, the United States did attempt to use the maneuvers
for political purposes, the Japanese Navy would not feel
intimidated in the slightest.** Despite this statement
directed at assuaging the agitation in the country over
the matter and assuring the people of Japan's ability to
cope with any eventualities, the maneuverscontinued to be
viewed with e feeling of suspicion and distrust.
The remarks of Admiral Harold R. Stark before the
Senate Naval Affairs Committee to the effect that Japan
was rumored to be greatly increasing its naval strength,
including the building of eight or more forty-thousand-ton
(or larger) battleships, and urging that the United States
increase its naval expansion program by 25 per cent instead
of by ll per cent, was prominently feetured in the Japanese
press. Admiral Stark's estimate of Japanese naval building
program were attacked es being unwarranted suppositions put
forward as a means and excuse to secure larger appropriations
for the American Navy.
A11
*Embassy's telegram no. 223, April 1, 8 p.m.
**Embassy's telegram no. 259, April 18, 5 p.m.

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
All Japanese newspapers published in front page
articles a report of Rear Admiral Joseph Taussig's
remarks before the Senate Naval Affairs Committee ex-
pressing the opinion that a war between the United States
and Japan is inevitable. The Navy Department's repudia-
tion of the statement and disclaimer of any responsibility
for it was also reported.* Japanese press reaction to
these remarks was unusually restrained and although there
was some comment to the effect that they constituted a
further aggravation of American-Japanese relations, but
little discussion was given to the matter.**
The adverse trend in Japanese feeling and attitude
toward the United States was further aggravated during the
month under review by the issues, referred to in the fore-
going paragraphs, of the American naval maneuvers in the
Pacific Ocean, the United States policy of non-recognition
of the "Nanking régime," the Philippine immigration ques-
tion, and the so-called "United States meddling in the Far
East" in connection with the Netherlands East Indies
question. It was said that the United States, by taking
its uncompromising stand concerning the 'China incident",
was influencing in a manner detrimental to Japen the poli-
cies of other countries towards this country, and could be
blamed for impeding the improvement of reletions between
Japan and Great Britain. A remark often made in expressing
Japanese resentment towards the United States was that
America
*Department's telegram no. 125, April 22, 8 p.m.
**mmbassy's telegrem no. 283, Apri1 24, 6 p.m.; and
no. 293, Apr11 27, 12 p.m.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
America is playing the role of "the watchdog of the
Pacific." There was, on the other hand, deep-seated
and widespread anxiety over the present status and trend
of American-Japanese relations: an anxiety lest these
relations deteriorate. Hope was expressed that Jupanese
relations with the United States could be restored, but
that, if it was too much to expect that all the issues
between the two countries could be forthwith resolved, at
least the relations might be kept from being further impaired.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Great Britain
1. Tientsin question.
An agreement was reached during the month under review
741.94
1
on the draft formula for the disposition of the Chinese
silver in the British Concession at Tientsin. Further
points still remained to be settled as regards the police
question. The agreement with regard to the silver, how-
ever, was not to become effective until all the outstanding
issues, including the British desiderate for lifting the
blockade, anti-British propaganda, etc., are settled. In
regard to the latter issues, it appesred that the Japanese
were showing some reluctance to implement their assurances
concerning the British desiderata, the Japanese authorities
at Tientsin seemingly being unwilling to lift the blockade
completely or immediately when agreement is reached. It
was reported in the press in the latter part of the month
that the Japanese army authorities at Tientsin asserted
that the blockade was instituted as an independent act
as a result of military necesaity and that, therefore, it
devolved

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
devolved upon them to determine whether it should be lifted.
It was understood, nevertheless, that the Japanese Govern-
ment had expressed the desire to have the blockade removed
onceafor all and that preparatory measures to that end were
and
being undertaken.*
The British Ambassador on April 23 made representations
to the Foreign Office in regard to the treatment by the
Japanese military of British nationals at the barriers of
the British Concession at Tientsin. He stated that the
situation there was steadily beaoming worse, and he added
that, in the face of the continual anti-British activities
of the Japanese forces in China, Great Britain was be-
ginning to wonder whether the British conciliatory policy
towards Japan was justified.**
2. Norwegian and Danish shipping.
Following the German invasion of Norway and Denmark,
there was speculation over British attitude concerning
Norwegian and Danish shipping operating in Far Eastern
waters. Japan had on charter some sixteen Norwegian and
Danish ships, and many vessels of those two countries
regularly call at Japanese ports. Concern was expressed
whether the British would attempt to seize the chartered
ships and to divert the rest of the shipping of those two
countries away from Japanese trade. On April 22, an
arrangement was reported to have been reached between the
British and the Japanese whereby Norwegian vessels would be
permitted by the British and Norwegian authorities to pro-
ceed to Japanese ports and to engage in trade between Japan
and
*mbassy's telegrams no. 231, April 3, 6 p.m.;
no. 247, Apr11 15, 5 p.m.; no. 270, Apri1 20, 11 p.m.;
no. 265, April 26, 6 p.m.; despatch no. 4680, April 26,1940.
**mmbassy!s telegrams no. 278, April 23, 5 p.m., and
no. 279, Apr11 23, 6 p.m.

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
and allied and neutral countries. Japan on its part was
to give an undertaking that it would not, "at the instiga-
tion of any foreien government or otherwise, interfere
with the normal freedom of movement of such ships in
Japanese waters."* No definite arrangement was reported
to have been arrived at concerning Danish vessels.
3. General relations.
Indications continued of relaxation of the somewhat
tense relations between Japan and Great Britain to which
reference was made in the monthly report for March.
Articles in the press reported that England generally was
showing a tendency toward more "cooperation" with Japan
than it has for some time in the past. Suggestions were
made of possibilities of settlin the problems between
the two countries concerning China and the Far East in a
way that could be constructively favorable to Japan's "new
order" policy. It was observed that Britain's conflict
with Germany was a strongly compelling reason for Great
Britain's desire to better its relations with this country.
This same consideration wes also largely attributed as
motivating a proposal, which the press reported Great
Britein had made to Japan, to enter into extensive trade
arrangements with this country. With the exception of
the announcement that British-controlled oil companies in
Iran had agreed to sell a considerable quantity of petro-
leum to Japan, no official statements, however, were made
as to any trade arrangements being contemplated or under
nogotiation.
(b)
*3mbassy's telegram no. £75, April 22, 3 p.m.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
(b) China
1. Military operations.*
The only notable development in Japanese military
operations during the month was a fairly large-scale
793.94
campaign in southeastern Shansi. The object of the
campaign was again to clean out Chinese troops from the
area and possibly to occupy the southern part of Chansi
alorg the Yellow River, and to hold the line of the
river with adequate garrisons. Little military activity
was reported as heving occurred in other parts of China.
2. General relations.
In accordance with arrangements announced in March,
General Abe, accompanied by a large delegation, left
Japan in the middle of the month and proceeded to Nanking,
for the purpose of tendering, as ambassador of Japan,
felicitations to the Tang Ching-wei régime and negotiating
"a basic adjustment of Sino-Japanese relations."**
There was some comment in the Japanese press on the
failure of the Japanese to elect five members to the
Municipal Council of the International Settlement at
Shanghai in the election that was held there on April 12.
In some quarters the election of only two Japanese was
attributed to clever manipulation on the part of the British
and also to the lack of Japanese experience in voting.
Further difficulties were predicted for the future but the
hope was expressed that the combined efforts of the Japanese
would in the future improve the Japanese position in the
Settlement.***
(c)
*Prepared with the assistance of the Orfice of the
Military Attaché.
**Embassy's telegram no. 246, April 15, 4 p.m.
***Babassy's despatch no. 4662, Apr1l 18, 1940.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
(c) France
The French Anbassador protested during the month
under review to the Foreign Office several instances of
flights of Japanese planes over French Indo-Chinese
territory.*
(d) Soviet Russia
It was reported in the press on April 17 that the
Japanese .mbassador at Moscow was called to the Soviet
Foreign Office on April 14 and overtures were made to the
Japanese Government through him for consideration of a
"permanent adjustment of Japanese-Soviet relations." The
press stated that Japanese official reaction to the Joviet
approach was one of doubt concerning its sincerity, that
Russia had a way of assuming a conciliatory attitude towards
Japan when it was or was about to be involved in efforts
concerning other parts of the world, as during the Soviet-
Finnish conflict, but that thereafter such an attitude was
often shortly abandoned.**
(e) Netherlands East I..dies
On April 14, the vernacular press in Tokyo prominently
featured articles stressing at much length thet the Japanese
75474
Government was greatly exercised over the relation of the
Netherlands East Indies with the uropean hostilities. It
was stated that there appeared to be a likelihood that the
Netherlands would shortly become enmeshed in the war in
Europe and that in such an event Japan could not but view
with serious concern any repercussions therefrom that might
affect the present status of the Dutch possessions in the
East
*mabassy's telegram no. 240, April 10, 5 p.m.; despatches
no. 4633, Apr1l 5, and no. 4677, April 26, 1940.
mmbessy's telegrams no. 257, April 18, 1 p.m.; and
no. 266, Apr11 19, 10 p.m.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
East Indies. Following this obviously officially inspired
opening by the press, the Foreign Minister on the next day
issued a statement in which he said that Japan was
economically bound by an intimate reletionship with the
South Seas region, especially the Netherlanas East Indies;
that a spreading of the Turopean war to the Netherlands
East Indies would not only interfere with the relations of
economic interdependence, co-existence, and co-prosperity,
but would undesirably affect the peace and statility of
East ia. I. view of these considerations the Japanese
Government cannot but be deeply concerned over any develop-
ment, accompanying the aggravation of the war in Europe,
thet may affect the status guo of the Netherlands Tast
Indies.*
All the vernacular newspapers on April 18 carried
the press statement released by the Secretary of State.
(See Section on Relations with the United States.) On
the same day the Japanese Foreien Office released a re-
port that the Netherlands Government had expressed appre-
ciation of the Japanese Government's attitude and had
stated that the Netherlands Government had not sought nor
would seek any country's protection of the Netherlands
East Indies and would "refuse any offer of protection or
intervention of any kind which might be made by any country."
The Japanese agitation in this matter has brought out
before Japan and the world the announcement from the
Netherlands Government that it will not resort to foreign
help in maintaining Dutoh sovereignty in its Pacific
possessions. It has also molded into shape Japan's position
and attitude towards those possessions.*
(s)
*abassy's telegrams nos. 245, April 14, 8 p.m.; 248, April
15, 6 p.m.; 249, Apr11 15, 8. p.m.; 250, Apr1l1 16, 5 p.m.;
8s1, Apr1l 16, 7 p.m.; 255, April 17, 5 p.m.; 261, April 18,
10 p.m.; 262. Apr11 19, 1 p.m.; 265, Apr11 19, 12 p.m.;
, Apr11 19, 11 p.m.; 269, Apr11 20, 5 p.m.; 273, April 22,
ab no. 4867, Apr11 23, 1940; Department's telegram

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
(f) Latin America
The Mexican economic mission which, it will be recalled.
had been invited to come to Japan, arrived here on April
1l for e stay of approximately a month. A number of dis-
cussions were held by it with Japanese trade organs to
explore the possibilities of increasing trade between
the two countries. It was understood, however, that no
official trade agreement would be concluded in Japan and
that any trade arrangements .to be entered into between
the two countries would be negotiated at Mexico City.*
During the month a small economic delegation from
Paraguay also arrived in Jepan and held discussions here
on trade matters.
The press announced that, after several months of
negotiation at Bogotá, an understanding has been reached
for the conclusion of a trade agreement between Japan and
Colombia and that under the new arrangement Japanese ex-
ports to Colombia will expand from the present approximately
half a million yen to seven or eight million yen and imports
from less than two hundred thousand yen at present to be-
tween two and three million yen. The Colombian Legation
here, however, has stated to the mbassy that according
to information received from its Government there has been
no arrangement or trade treaty concluded between the two
countries, and that, although the Japanese have submitted
certain trade proposals to the Colombian Government, there
has been no negobiation thus far on them.**
III
*Embassy's telegram no. 264, April 19, 8 p.m.; and
despatoh no. 4655, Apri1 11, 1940.
**mmbassy's despatoh no. 4635, April 12, 1940.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
(a) Foreign Office
It was announc ed during the month under review that
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is to be expanded to an
appreciable extent during the coming fiscal year begin-
ning April 1. The most important project provided for is
the establishment of a South Seas bureau staffed by a
director, two section chiefs, and a number of secretaries.
Some fourteen new consulates and consulates general are
to be established in different parts of the world.
(b) Army
It was announced that a six-year program was insti-
tuted with the beginning of the fiscal year for the pur-
pose of armament replenishment and structural reform of
the army. The press nlso reported that the Army expected
that, for the next few years at least, military expendi-
tures must be at about as large a figure as that for the
present year.
(c) Official price control and regulation
of national economy
In an effort to check the various undesirable economic
trends and in view of the demand for drastic and immediate
action in this regard, the new economic advisory council,
the Price Tolicy Inquiry Commission, was instructed by the
Government at its initial meeting in the first part of the
month to draft adequate measures to regulate the supply
and demand of daily necessities and to formulate en
acceptable price control policy as soon as possible. It
appeared very likely from reports of the proceedings of
the commission and pronouncements by Government officials
that, as one means of controlling distribution of daily
necessities

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
necessities and essential industrial materials, a system
of rationing, which has already been epplied to certain
commodities, such as matches and steel materials, for a
wide range of commodities would be instituted. Moreover,
the penal provisions of the economic control regulations
will be strengthened in an effort to curb the violations
which have tended to undermine the regulations in the
past. No final decision apparently had been reached by
the end of the month upon the policy to be pursued towards
the control of commodity prices.
In reports appearing in the press toward the end of
the month it was announced that the army, having become
impatient with the delay in the formulation of a concrete
price policy by the Government, and having regard to the
confused and unsatisfactory operation of the present
regulations, had decided to step in and take a hand
itself in the matter. The militery authorities announced
in this connection that they intended to regulate the
profits of firms engeged in the production of munitions
and allied equipment from July l. It was generally antici-
pated that this move would develop eventually to the
placing of all industries under profit control, It was
held that by this means t he army hoped to be able to force
down the prices for military goods and in sympathy there-
with the prices of other £oods. The huge profits currently
being made by industry and the consequent disbureement
in the country of the large sums earned by industry have
been a large contributory factor. to higher prices. It
was felt that the army, in order to have its budget cover
its requirements, was forced to put a stop to the rise in
prioes

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
prices, as prices have gone up so much from the price
level on the basis of which the buaget was computed a
year and a half ago, that the army is finding diffi-
culty in keeping within its budget. It was held, how-
ever, in industrial circles that the ermy's action might
well result in major changes in the capitalistic system.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE
The first of the new bond issues scheduled for the
new fiscal year was offered in April to the amount of
four hundred million yen. The rate of bond absorption
894.51
for April was better than that for March, reportedly being
90.8%, but far below that for the previous year. Appre-
ciable concern was shown over the failure of the country
adequately to absorh the bonds being floated by the Govern-
ment, and despite the prediction made by the Government
in 1939, that Japan would not have to resort to compulsory
savings, a step in that direction appeared to be envisaged
through a semi-compulsory system of savings by means of
deductions from salary at the source. It was reported
that the system is to be instituted in the near future.
Japan's note issue again increased during April,
reaohing an "all time high.'
VI.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
VI. G NERAL ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS*
The spread of the European hostilities to the
Scandinavian countries in April and the increasing likeli-
hood of other countries in Europe becoming involved in
the war created a profound impression in Japan. For, in
taking account of the resulting effects on Japan's foreign
trade it was generally realized that any advantages which
might be anticipated from this development would probably
be more than outweighed by concurrent disadvantages. A
favorable aspect was considered to be the opportunity for
Japanese manufacturers to capture the export markets for-
merly dominated by the belligerent countries now preoccu-
pied with the war. As against this, however, the curtailing
of the European markets, if not the entire
elimination
of trade with a number of the European countries, and the
restrictions on trade imposed in the belligerent countries
and in their empires, would seriously affect the volume of
Japanese foreign trade. Japan has been importing certain
quantities of wood pulp for the manufacture of rayon, ores
and metals, and machinery from the Scandinavian countries.
Over fifty per cent of Japan's imports of wood pulp from
other than yen bloc countries was obtained last year from
Scandinavia. It became apparent as regards Japanese trade
with the two most important belligerent netions and their
empires, Great Britain and France, where goods in large
quantities have been exchanged with Japan, that there was
a strong possibility of intensified Anglo-French exchange
control which would curtail shipments to the sterling bloo
and
*Prepared with the assistance of the Office of the
Commeroial Attaché.

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
and that the diversion of the production of the empires
to the needs of the mother countries in prosecuting the
war, and the curtailment, and even banning, of the sale
of many materials to outside nations would greatly reduce
their exports to this country. The trade of the British
Empire with Japan has accounted in the past years for some
thirty per cent of Japan's total foreign trade. The fact,
moreover, of the increasing possibility that the war would
become a protracted one seemingly could only portend con-
tinued aggravation of the situation in the future. It
was felt, in particular, that it would become increasingly
more difficult and considerably more expensive for Japan
to purchase the raw materials and plant equipment needed
in prosecuting the warfare in China, its industrial ex-
pansion program, and its plans for military replenishment.
Despite the arrangements made with Great Britain for
Norwegian ships to continue calling at Japanese ports, the
prospect of a drastic curtailment of Scendinavian shipping
in the Pacific Ocean was viewed with some concern in the
light of the acute shortage of Japanese bottoms available
for the transportation of the foreign raw materials which
are required by the nation's heevy industries.
Internal economic developments also appeared to have
become more unfavorable during April. Living costs and
retail commodity prices continued to surge upward dospite
the official efforts to keep prices down. The trend toward
inflation became more pronounced with the increase in the
daily note issue of the Bank of Japan. The prevailing
shorteges of daily necessities, although they had not be-
oome much worse than during the pest few months, were not
alleviated

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
alleviated to any extent during the month. Stocks of
goods for export continued to accumulate and the situs-
tion in the cotton textile trade was regarded as being
so unsatisfactory that spinners decided on a voluntary
curtailment of production. This latter situetion has
been attributed in some part to the bans and rustrictions
placed by European countries and their colonial possessions
on imports of Japanese cotton piece goods. It was re-
ported during the month that the productive capacity
expansion program of the country was found to be slowing
down from the high rate maintained in the past. Up to
this year, however, much progress in this line undoubtedly
has occurred and the country has already succeeded in
building up its industrial productive capacity to a very
appreciable extent.
Approximately l40 new laws and ordinances relating
to business, finance, and industry were promulgated during
April. Most of the new measures provided for the es-
tablishment of standard prices for various commodities.
It was announced during the month that a merger would
be effected of the Mitsui firms and their various enormous
and widely diversified interests in Japan and abroad. The
object of : this merger, which is to become effective in
August, reportedly is to permit the utilization of the
single company to further the development of Japanese
foreign trade. The Government evidently will have a large
measure of control over and direction of the business
operations of the company and the operations will be in-
tegrated more closely with the Government's economic policies,
Preliminary

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
-23-
Preliminary figures for the foreign trade of the
Japanese Empire for April placed the value of 3xprts
at Yen 352, 302, 000, and imports at Yan 296,218 000.
Compared with the foreign trade returns for Marcr, ex-
ports slightly declined and imports decreased appreciably
but in comparison with the corresponding month of 195
exports increased in value by 4l per cent and impo ts in
value by 24 per cent.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INT.RSTS
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTCRESTS
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLAEOUS
Nothing to report.

=== Page 227 === (confidence 1.00)
Telegrams sent to the Department
April 1940
Number
Date
Subject
218
April 1, noon
Foreign Minister's comment on
Secretary of State's statement re
new Nanking régime
219
April 1, 1 p.m.
British Aibassador's speech at
Japan-British Society meeting
220
April 1, 5 p.m.
Soviet-Japanese relations:
negotiations re border demarcation
221
April 1, 6 p.m.
British Ambassador's speech at
Japan-British Society meeting
222
April 1, 7 p.m.
Foreign Office spokesman's comment o
Secretary Hull's statement re
new Nanking régime
223
April 1, 8 p.m.
Press comment re American
naval maneuvers
224
April 1, 9 p.m. British Ambassador's speech
225
April 2, 3 p.m.
Press comment concerning Secretary
Hull's statement re Nanking régime
226
April 2, 5 p.m.
Fress comment on American attitude
toward new Nanking régime
227
April 2, 9 p.m.
American-Japanese relations:
Japanese opinions
228
April 3, 10 a.m. Press comment on British ard American
attitudes toward Japan's policy in
China
229
April 3, noon
Japanese interference with radio
station
230
April 3, 3 p.m.
Japanese-imerican relations:
Prime Minister's press statement
231
April 3, 6 p.m.
British-Japanese relations:
Tientsin question
232
April 3, 4 p.m. Chefoo trade rustrictions
233
April 3, 7 p.m. Stranding of CITY OF JOLIET

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
234
April 4, 1l a.m. British-Japanese relations and the
European war
April 6, 6 p.m. Personal for the Secretary
235
April 6, noon
Requisitions
236
April 8, 5 p.m. Interference by Japanese radio stati.
237
April 6, 6 p.m. Embassy gardeners
238
April 8, 7 p.m. Detention of Marcelo Tan at Amoy
239
April 10, 4 p.m. Proposed visits of USS GOLD STAR
240
April 10, 5 p.m. Fossible bombing by Japanese of
Yunnan railway
241
Anril 1f, 7 p.m. Foreign Office spokesman's statement
on Japan's attitude re German
operations in Scandinavia
242
April 12, 1 p.m. Commercial Attaché reports: rayon
243
April 13, 8 p.m. Japanese interference with radio -
U.S.liavy direction finding service
244
April 14, 10 s.m.British Anbassador's proposed
leave of absence
245
April 14, 8 p.m. Press comment re involvement of
Netherlands East Indies in European w
246
April 15, 4 p.m. Abe's appointment as .mbassador to
new Nanking régime
247
April 15, 6 p.m. British-Japanese negotiations re
Tientsin
248
April 15, 6 p.m. Press comment on Japan's attitude
toward Netherlands East Indies
249
April 15, 8 p.m. Foreign Minister's statement re Japan
and the Netherlends I..dies
250
April 16, 5 p.m. Press comment on Foreign Minister's
statement re Netherlands Indies
251
April 16, 7 p.m. Japan and the Netherlands Irdies

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
252
April 17, 1 p.m. Commercial Attaché's report: ccttoü
253
April 17, 3 p.m.
Ditto
254
April 17, 4 p.m. Miss Russell's lenve o εbsence
255
April 17, 5 p.m. Press comment on Foreig inister's
statement re Netherland: I_dies
256
April 17, 7 p.m. Japanese-Americen relations:
Japanese opinions
257
April 18, 1 p.m. Soviet-Japanese relatiors
258
April 18, 4 p.m. Japanese mission to Italy
259
April 18, 5 p.m: Navy Minister's statement re
Netherlands Indies and American
naval maneuvers
260
April 18, 9 p.m. Dry dock facilities for M.V. ST CU.
261
April 18, 10 p.m. Mr. Hull's statement re Netherlands
Indies
262
April 19, 1 p.m. Japan-Netherlands relations
263
April 19, 7 p.m. Japanese bombing of Catholic mission
properties, Linchwan and Chihkiang
264
April 19, 8 p.m. Mexican economic mission to Japan
265
April 19, midnight Press comment on Mr. Hull's stateme.
re Netherlands Indies
266
April 19, 10 p.m. Soviet-Japanese relations
267
April 19, 11 p.m. Japanese-Netherlands relations
268
April 19, 8 p.m. Italy and the European war
269
April 20, 5 p.m. Press comment on Netherlands Indies
and U.s. naval building program
270
April 20, 1l p.m. British-Japanese relations: Tientsin
271
April 20, midnight Cleim of H.D.Rodger against the
Japanese Government for property
damage in China
272
April 22, noon
British representations re wharfage
facilities at Tsingtao

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
273
April 22, 1 p.m. Japanese-American relations re
Netherlands Irdies
274
April 22, 2 p.m. Phibippine immigration legislation
275
April 22, 3 p.m. Free movement of Norwegian vessels
in Japanese waters
276
April 22, 10 p.m.Japanese- american relations re
Netherlands Indies
277
April 23, 4 p.m. Japanese bombing of Catholic mission
properties at Linchwan and Chihkiang
278
April 23, 5 p.m. Representations re Tientsin barriers
279
April 23, 6 p.m. Ditto
280
April 23, 11 p.m.Philippine immigration legislation
281
April 24, 1 p.m. Dittò
282
April 24, 4 p.m. Foreign Minister's call on Ambassador
283
April 24, 5 p.m. Admiral Taussig's remarks regarding
war between the United States and Ja:
284
not used
285
April 26, 6 p.m. United States attitude toward Tientsi
negotiations
286
April 26, 7 p.m. Detention of Marcelo Tan at Amoy
287
April 27, noon Shipment of archives
288
April 27, 1 p.m. Ambassador's leave of absence
289
April 27, 2 p.m. Foreign Minister's call on Ambassador
290
April 27, 3 p.m. Proposed new currency for Central Chi
291
April 27, 4 p.m. Foreign Minister's statement regardin
Netherlands Indies
292
April 27, 6 p.m. British Ambassador's leave of absence
293
April 27 midnight Admiral Taussig's statement
294
April 28, 10 p.m. Philippine immigration legislation
295
April 30, 5 p.m. Arrest of Translator Sugimura
296
April 30, 7 p.m. Ambassador's leave of absence

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
April 1940
No.
Date
Subject
4619
April 1
International Convention for Safety
of Life at Sea
4620
April 1
Leave of Absence, John B. Farish
4621
April 1
Quarterly report of personnel resid-
ing in Government-owned quarters
4622
April 1
Request of U.S.Treasury Department
for copies of Annual Report of
Bank of Japan
4623
April 1
Cover handed to Mrs. James R. Young
4624
April 2
JAPAN TIMES clipping reporting speech
of Sir Robert Craigie
4625
April 4
Chefoo trade restrictions - lace and
embroidery exports
4626
April 4
Pacific Mercado and orld's Fair
4627
April 4
New edition of JINJI KOSHIN ROKU
4628
April 4
Oil monopolias in Namhoi district
4629
April 4
Tenth set of British claims submitted
to Japanese Government for property
damage in China
4630
April 4
British representations regarding
Japanese interference with operation
of British mills at Shanghai
4631
April 4
British representations regarding
Japanese closure of port of Swatow
4632
April 5
Resignation of J..Gaddis, Clerk,
and request for replacement
4633
April 5
French protest regarding Japanese
violation of Indo-Chinese territory
4634
April 5
Transmitting Ambassador's speech at
St. Paul's University, March 16.
4635
April 12
Japanese efforts toward freedom from
"economic dependence" on the U.S.
4636
April 8
JAPAN TIMES article: "Financed Lobby
Operates on American Sympathies";
JAPAN ADVERTISER article: "Change Seen
likely in U.S. ASIA POLICY."
4637
April 6
Diplomatic visa report
4658
April 8
Shipment of arohives

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4639
April 9
Japanese bombing of Methodist Episco-
pai Church, Shuanglin, Chekiang
4640
April 9
Case of Mr. James R. Young
4641
April 9
JAPAN ADVERTISR clipping: "Hidden
Reason Seen in Hull Statement."
4642
April 9
JAPAN ADVERTISR clipping: Japan
Declared Key to Anglo-t.S, Action."
4643
April 10
Interference by Japanese radio
station JND with U.S.Naval Radio
station NSS
4644
April 11
TOKYO NICHI NICHI article by Mr.
Kawakami
4645
April 11
Froof of Japanese registry and
nationality carried by merchant
vessels
4646
April 11
Pan Pacific Trading & Navigation Co
4647
April 11
Transmitting photostatic copy of
receipt for telegram sent from Hoihow,
Hainan Island
4648
April 11
Disposition of communications from
Dr. Victor Frene
4649
April 12
Transmitting newspaper articles re
visit to Japan of Dr. Brooks Emeny.
4650
April 11
Japanese bombing of United Brethren
Mission, Siulam, Chungshan, Kwantung.
4651
April 11
Japanese public opinion in regard
to the United States
4652
April 11
Japanese Economic Mission to Italy
4653
April 11
Coal supply at Hawaiian ports
4654
April 11
British representations regarding
Japanese bombing of Yunnan railway
4655
April 11
Mexican Economic Mission to Japan
4656
April 15
Japanese interference with direction
finding service of U.S.Naval
Communication system
4657
April 13
Diplomatic visa report
4658
April 16
Uncertain travel conditions in Japan
4659
April 16
Newspaper clipping reporting criti-
cism by William R.Castle of Mr. Hull's
statement on non-recognition of the
"ang régime

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
4660
April 17
JAFAN ADVERTISER article by Mr.
Yoshitaro Shimizu
4661
April 17
CONTEMPORARY JAPAN article by
Mr. Katsuji Debuchi
4662
April 18
JAPAN ALVERTISER clipping of press
comment on results of recent
Shanghai Municipal Council election
4663
April 19
Fuel oil contract
4664
April 20
Purchase of publication for the
Department: Japanese customs tariff
4665
April 22
Transmitting address read by Mr.
Turner for the Ambassador at 7th
Black Ship Festival, April 21.
4666
April 26
Chemical Construction Corporation
4667
April 23
Japanese relations with the Nether-
lands East Indies
4668
April 25
Japanese attitude toward Philippine
immigration legislation
4669
April 24
Japanese interference with foreign
interests at Tientsin
4670
April 24
Damage to Anerican Catholic Mission,
Linchwan, Kiangsi.
4671
April 24
Damage to Catholic Mission Hospital,
Chihkiang
4672
April 24
Japanese burning of English Methodist
Mission, Chuchia, Shantung
4673
April 25
Repair of storage cabinet locks
4674
April 25
Civil Service retirement
4675
April 25
Case of Mr. James R. Young
4676
April 26
JAPAN TIMES clipping of report of
Admiral Joseph K. Taussig's statement
re war between Japan and the U.S.
4677
April 26
French protest regarding Japanese
violation of Indo-Chinese territory
4678
April 26
Transmitting cartoons of the President
and Mrs. ROosevelt from JAPAN TIMES
4679
April 26
Employment of American messenger
4680
April 26
British-Japanese negotiations re
Tientsin question
4681 April 29
Monthly report for Maroh 1940

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.93)
F
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
POP THEF STATE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
I910 AUG 5 PM 2 2
No. 408s
Tokyo, July 9, 1940.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
SUBJBOT:
REPORT OF COIDITIOFS IN JAPAN DURING THE
MONTH OF MAY 1940
CW
OFFCE SF  SER
(AUG151940)
CR
DEPARTEN 
COMMERCIAL A
894.00
No
V
AUC 13 1940
Cdhyin FE
ON
MID
The Honorabld
894.00 P.R./1
The Secretary of State
COPIES SENT TO
Washington
O.N.I. AND MI.D.
sir:
819882
With reference to the Department's instruotion no. 95
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
50
month of May 1940.
Respectfully yours,
FLEL
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
Report no, 164
800
MWB:gt
In quintuplioate to the Department
Copies to Embassies: Pelping, Chungking, Moscow.
Copies to Consulates General: Shanghai, iukden, Harbin,
Seoul, Tokyo.
F/FG
Copies to Consulates: Dalren, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki,
Nagoya, Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to High Commissioner of the Philippine Islands
Copy to Commander-in-Chier of the U.S. Asiatio Fleet.
I copy relained ton
nülo 71g.

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 164
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF MAY 1940

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX
ANDSUMMARY
Pages
I. RILATIONS ITH THE UNITD STATES
(a) Visit to Japan of the United
States High Commissioner to the
Philippines, Mr. Francis B. Sayre
1,2
(b) Editorial comment on the recent
Philippine Immigration Bill
2,3
(c) Matsuo Case
3-5
(d) Ropresentations mede by the Embassy
during the month of Mey
1. Rumored Esteblishment by
Chinese authorities at Nen-
king of e new Bank of Issue
in Central China
5
2. Case of Luther Loucks
6
3. Maintenance of the Status 2uo
in Shanghai
7
(e) Terrorists Activities at Shanghai
8
(f) Further representations
8
II. RELATIONS ITH OTHER COUNTRIES
(a) Netherlands East Indies
9-18
(b) Groat Britain
12
(c) China
12-14
1. Lilitary
14,15
2. Air Activities
15
(d) France
15
(e) Peru
16
(r) Brazil
16
III. INTERNAL FOLITIC'L AFFIIRS
(a) Cabinet
17
(b) Statements of Government
Officials
17,18
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION
18
V. GOVERNIENT FINANCE
18
VI.
GENERAL ECONOLIC AND FINANCIAL
CONDITIONS
(a) Rice Problems
18-80
(b) Labor Problems
20,21
(0)

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
(c) General
21
VII.
ACTIVITIES OF ALLERICAN COLMERCIAL
INTERESTS
21
VIII.
ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLLIERCIAL
INTERESTS
22
IX. LABOR
22
X. :ISCELLANEOUS
22,23

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES
(a) Visit to Japan of the United States High
Commissioner to the Philippines, Mr. Franois
B. Sayre.
Prior to the arrival in Japan of Mr. Francis B. Sayre,
United States High Commissioner to the Philippines, Mr.
Arita, Minister for Foreign Affairs, had indicated to the
Ambassador his desire to meet Ir. Sayre during his visit
to Japan. On May lst Mr. Sayre, accompanied by the Ambas-
sador, paid a courtesy call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs. At the conclusion of their conversation, Mr. Arita
expressed the hope that he might have an opportunity for
a further talk with Mr. Sayre and subsequently asked the
High Commissioner to call on May 2nd. The press reporting
Mr. Sayre's first interview with the Minister suggested
the possibility that conversations between these two in-
dividuals might lead to a fresh approach to the difficulties
facing Japanese-American relations. Newspapers pointed out
that in spite of efforts on both sides rolations between
Japan and the United States had recently worsened. The hope
was expressed that such conversations might at least provide
the basis for future talks between the Minister for Foreign
Affairs and the Ambassador.
During tho first conversation on May lst, remarks were
devoted almost exclusively to the Philippine immigration
b ill. Mr. Sayro explained that the Philippine Assembly
has
*Embassy's telegrams nos. 298, May 2, 1 p.m.; 300, May 3, 11 p.m.;
301, May 4, 1 a.m.; 302, May 3, midnight; 303, May 4, 5 a.m.;
509, May 6, 7 p.m.; 318, May 8, 9 p.m.; 325, May 10, 8 p.m.;
mbassy's despatch no. 4707, May 14, 1940.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
has full and urestricted power to rogulate imnigretion to
the Philippinos subject only to the provisicn that such
regulations shall not bocomo law until approvol by the
President of tho United States. Mr. Sayro brought to the
Minister's attention the facts that thc reduction in the
annual quota of each country to 5oo was brought about by
an amendment originating during debato in the Assembly and
that the bill was not at all discriminatory against Japan
or any other nation. Mr. Arita indicated his appreciation
of the High Commissioner's explanation.
During the courso of tho scveral informal conversa-
tions which Mr. Sayre subscquently had with Mr. Arita,
speculation in tho pross concerning the subjoct mattor beceme
widosproad, and it was thoreforo agrocd upon by Mr. Sayre and
Mr. Arite to roleaso to tho pross a statoment to the effect
that those entirely informal talks were aimed morcly at
clarification of cortain aspocts of Amorican-Japanose ro-
lations, that they hed not beon planned in advance, and
that from the point of viow of clarification they had proved
helpful.
(b) Editorial comment on the rocent Philippine
Immigretion Bill.*
On May 4 the YOMIURI and the NICHI NICHI commonted
editorially on the Philippine Immigration bill. The
YOMIURI charactorized the measure as en "unfriondly act"
end asserted that tho bill wes pesssd et the direction of
the United States. It was described as, similcr to the
Exclusion
*Tabassy's telegram no. 306, May 4, 8 p.m.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
Exolusion Act of 1924, an enti-Jepanese mcesure. The NICHI
NICHI statod thet tho bill was patontly unfcir cnd gave no
considoration to tho populction of emigrent countries nor
to past Jopenese contributions to the development of the
Philippinos. The NICHI NICHI went on to scy that the mec-
sure wrs in violction of cn undorst nding rerched lcst yeer
betweon officinls of tho Amoricn nd Japeneso Governmonts.
As proof of the unfriondly intentions of tho United States,
it wes stated th-t both State nd Labor Depcrtment officicls
from the United Stctes participeted in tho originel drefting
of tho legisletion. Tho NICHI NICHI concluded thnt tho
Unitod Strtes is in frvor of tho doctrine of the Opon Door
rnd oquclity of opportunity being "pplied by overyone but
itself."
(c) M tsuo Caso.*
On Mey 7 tho Consulate at Teihoku reported that its
interprotor Mr. C. Metsuo had beon errestod suddonly by the
militery policc who rofusod to givo cny explanation for
thoir ection. Tho Eabessy cddrossed c noto to tho Foroign
Offico ct Tokyo roquosting c statoment of tho chcrges against
interprotor Mrtsuo nd pointing out tho inconvonience
ceused by his onforcod cbsonce from tho Consulcto. The
Consul at Teihoku roported thrt ho hec turned cway visa
epplioants rnd invoices with the explrnation that tho
intorproter clways hondlos such documonts nd that pending
his rolecse tho Consulsto is unrble to porform tho normel
consular sorvico. Conformebly with tho Dopertmont's in-
struotions,
*Eibassy's tolegrems no. 314, May 8, 5 p.m.; 339, May 14, 10
p.m.; 365, M-y 23, 7 p.m.; Dopartmont's tolegrams nos. 146,
May 10, 4 p.m.; 164, May 24, 5 p.m.; Embassy's tolegram of
Muy 1a, 3 p.m.; to Taihoku.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
instructions, the Embessy informed the Foreign Office that
although the Government of the United States does not de-
sire to condone or defend Mr. Matsuo if in fact he has
wiolated any Japanese law, the summary action of the Japa-
nese and their refusal to state the charge on which Mr.
Latsuo is being detained is considered by the American
Government not only to involve material interference vith
the orderly functioning of the Consulate but to lack the
consideration and courtesy rightfully expected from the
Japanese Government in a matter affecting an official
Amerioan establishment in Japan.
The Consul at Taihoku later reported that on May 18
ir. Matsuo was charged with violation of the ilitary
Resources and Protection Law but that specific charges
were not revealed. ith regard to the Embassy's question
concerning the probebly advisebility of closing the Consu-
late at Taihoku, the Consul there expressed the opinion
that such action should not be taken at least until after
the conclusion of the Latsuo case.
On May 24 under instructions from the Department the
Embassy approached the Foreign Office along the following
lines: The American Covernment considers that it has a right
to expect deteiled, specific end prompt information with
regard to all cherges which may be brought against Mr. Watsuo
arising in connection with the performance of his official
duties for the reason that the Amerioan Government would
probably wish to consider that information in relation to
the funotioning of the Consulate. Mention was made of the
liberal policy hioh the American Government has followed
with regard to the stationing of consuls and the performance
of

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
of thoir funotions in tho United St tcs. As an oxample
of this policy, it wes stated, thet the merican Govorn-
mont when inquiry was roccived from the Japanose E:ssy
at Wskington concerning tho esteblishmont of tvo ed-
ditional Jepenese offices, at thet time incicated ihet
the American Government was then agroeablo to such esta-
blishment. Reference was also maie to the generelly
obstructive and uncooperetive attitude of the Taiwan
euthorities for the pest several yeers in connection
"ith the functioning of the Anerican Consulate at Taihoku.
There were no further developments in this case up
to the close of the month under review.
(a) Representetons made by the mbassy
curing the month of Liay.
1. Rumored Establishment by Chinese
authorities at Nanking of a new
Bank of Issue in Central China.*
Conformably with the Dapartment's instructions the
Ambassador addressed a note to the Minister for Foreign
Affairs on May 27 with regard to recent indications that
the Chinese authorities at Nanking may soon establish a new
so-called Centrel Bank whioh is to issue a new currency.
The Ambassador's note referred to the fact that the Nanking
regime
*Embassy's telegrams nos. 299, May 3, 7 p.m.; 382, May 27,9 p.m.
38s, May 27, 10 p.m.; mbassy's despatoh no. 4729,
May 28, 1940.

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
regime has promulgated and put into effect regulations for
the establishment of a Contral Bank Preparatory Committee
the duties of which are, among others, to arrange for the
1ssuance of a new currency, and stated that the Amerioan
Government in view of past experiences can reasonably
anticipate serious discrimination against and resultant
damage to American enterprise and trade in the Central
China area which would ensue from the establishment of a
new bank and the issuance of a new currency. The Ambassador
stated that the American Government views with great con-
cern the possibilities in regard to this important question
and pointed out that such action, if taken, would not be
in keeping with the assuranoes which the Japanese Govern-
ment has from time to time and on frequent occasion given
to the American Government. The undesirable affect on
Arerican-Japanese relations whioh would follow was men-
tioned. In conclusion the note requested the Minister for
Foreign Affairs to make available such information as he
may have on this subject.
The British and French Ambassadors made a parallel
approach to the Foreign Office, their notes being identical
in tone and information.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs made no reply during
the month of May.
2. Case of Luther Loucks.*
Under date of May 15, 1940, the Foreign Office replied
to the Embassy's representations of April 30, 1940, con-
cerning the case of Luther Louoks, an American citizen against
whom the Chinese Court in Mukden, Manohuria, returned a
judgement.
mbassy's telegrem no. 354, May 20, 4 p.m.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
judgement. The Foreign Office in its reply stated that
the Imperial Government desires to point out the fust
that it is not in any position to receive representations
with regard to questions which fell vithin tho jurindic-
tion of Manohukuo." For the mbassy's informetion the
note stated that the Government of "Tiane nukuo" consijers
that extraterritoriality end other special rights vcased
to exist when "Manchukuo" established its independence.
3. Maintenence of the Status uo in
Shanghai.*
Conformably with the Department's instructions, the
Embassy on May 20 informally apnroached the Japanese Foreign
Offioe along the following lines. According to information
reaching the Government of the United States an informal
oral greement hes been resched by the cormanders of all
European forces in the vicinity of Shanghai that they would
maintain a peaceful continuance of the status guo in Shanghai
in the event of a spread of the war in Europe. The American
Government was also informed that the commenders of the
detachments of European forces at Peiping have manifested
 completely cooperative attitude in keeping within the
above agreement. This arrengement was also believed to apply
to the military forces at Tientsin. The Japanese Government
made no reply to this informal epproach during the period
under review.
(0)
*Imbassy's telegram no. 355, May 20, 5 p.m.; Department's
telegram no. 154, Wey 16, δ p.m.

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
(e) Terrorist Activities at Shanghai.*
As instructed by the Department, the Embassy made in-
quiry at the British Embassy concerning recent information
which the latter had received relative to the activities
of terrorists at Shanghai and asked whether instructions
had been received from the Foreign Office in London to
approach the Japanese Government on this question. The
British mbassy replied that it had received no recent in-
forration nor instructions on this question. The Ambes-
sador therefore proposed to the Department that action on
the question of terrorist activities at Shanghai be post-
poned until the British were prepared to take parallel steps.
No representations were made by the Ambassador during the
month of May.
(f) Further Representations.
Representations were made to the Japanese Government
on instruction from the Department in the following cases:
Nanyang Brothers Tobacco Company, Hankow; **
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company;
***
Travel of American Citizens on the Yangtze
River ****
Difficulties experienced by American citizens
at Tientsin.*****
*Embassy's telegram no. 361, May 22, midnight; Depart-
mont's telegram 218, May 18, 4 p.m., to Shanghai.
**Embassy's telegram no. 362, May 22, 11 p.m.; Department's
telegram ll2, April ll, 8 p.m.; Embassy's despatch no.
4720, May 24, 1940.
***mmbassy's telegram no. 393, May 31, 2 p.m.; Embassy's
despatoh no. 4737, May 31, 1940.
eeeemabassy's telegram no. 395, May 31, 5 p.m.
mo. 4741, June 3, 1940.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
I. RELATIONS ITH OTFR COUNTRIES
(a) Netherlands Bast Indies.*
During the month of May the Japanese vernacular press
continued to stress that any change in the status guo of
7542.94
the Netherlands Indies or the placing of those areas under
Amerioan or British control would bring serious consequences.
On May 1l the Minister for Foreign Affairs informed the
Ambassador that he had called in the Gernan Ambessador as
well as the British and French Ambassadors and had told
them that recent events in Europe have accentuated the con-
cern of the Japenese Government in maintaining the status
quo of the Netherlands East Indies. The Ambassador was
later informed by the British Embassy that the British Coun-
selor had been told by the Minister for Foreign Affairs that,
if as a result of the Netherlands becoming involved in the
war in Europe, the supplies which Japan was now receiving
from the Netherlands East Indies should be diminished a
situation would arise which Japan "could hardly bear".
On May 13 the vernacular press devoted consideerable
space to the question of the Netherlands Indies and prominently
reported Secretary of State Hull's statement of May ll. Con-
siderable agitation in "official and unofficial circles" was
reported as a result of the Netherlands Government allowing
the
*Embassy's telegrams nos. 326, May 11, noon; 327, May 11,
9 p.m.; 328, May 11, 10 p.m.; 330, May 13, 4 p.m.; 332,
May 14, 3 p.m.; 335, May 14, 6 p.m.;343, May 15, 9 p.M.;.
344, May 15, 10 p.m.; 346, May 16, 6 p.m.; 350, May 17, 2 p.m.;
351, May 17, 9 p.m.; 357, May 20, 7 P.m.; 358, May 21, 7 P.m.;
363, May 23, 1 p.m.; 366, May 23, 9 p.m.; 390, May 29, 8 p.m.;
391, May 29, 10 p.m.; Department's no. 148, May 11, 2 p.m.

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
the landing of French Marines in the Netherlands West Indies
and the placing of those islands under British and Frenoh
proteotion. This was termed a violation of the assurances
to Japan given by the Netherlands Government that it would
not invoke the aid of other powers in safeguarding its colo-
nial possessions. 'ith regard to Mr. Hull's statement, the
vernacular press oharacterized the American position as lega-
listio and warned that "exoessive solicitude with regard to
the Netherlands East Indies by third Powers would destroy
the statu quo of the Netherlands East Indies". Some
journals asserted that Jepan was determined to oppose not
only military intervention in the Indies but also "un-
reasonable monopoly" of the resources of the Netherlands
East Indies by any third country.
On May 14 the British Ambassador under instructions from
his Government informed the Foreign Minister orally that
the British Government fully shares the concern of the Japa-
nese Government for the maintenance of the statug guo of
the Netherlands East Indies and the British Government has
no intention of intervening in those areas. In reply the
Minister for Foreign Affairs is said to heve categorically
assured Sir Robert Craigie that the Japanese Government has
no intention of intervening in the Netherlands East Indies.
Japan's main preoccupation appeared to be tle continuance
of the supplies of raw materials which Japan receives from
those islands.
On May 15 the.ASAHI newspaper printed a report to the
effect that the Foreign Office had been informed by the
Netherlands Legation that the direction of foreign relations
of the Netherlands Government would be placed in the hands
of the Governor General of the Netherlands Bast Indies. The
mbassy

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
the landing of French Marines in the Netherlands West Indies
and the placing of those islands under British and Frenoh
proteotion. This was termed a violation of the assurances
to Japan given by the Netherlands Government that it would
not invoke the aid of other powers in safeguarding its colo-
nial possessions. 'ith regard to Mr. Hull's statement, the
vernacular press characterized the American position as lega-
listio and warned that "exoessive solicitude with regard to
the Netherlands East Indies by third Powers would destroy
the statue quo of the Netherlands East Indies". Some
journals asserted that Jepen was determined to oppose not
only military intervention in the Indies but also "un-
reasonable monopoly" of the resources of the Netherlands
East Indies by any third country.
On May 14 the British Ambassador under instructions from
his Government informed the Foreign Minister orally that
the British Government fully shares the concern of the Japa-
nese Government for the maintenance of the status guo of
the Netherlands East Indies and the British Government has
no intention of intervening in those areas. In reply the
Winister for Foreign Affairs is said to heve categorically
assured Sir Robert Craigie that the Japanese Government has
no intention of intervening in the Netherlands East Indies.
Japan's main preoccupation appeared to be the continuance
of the supplies of raw materials which Japan receives from
those islands.
On May 15 the.ASAHI newspaper printed a report to the
effect that the Foreign Office had been informed by the
Netherlands Legation that the direction of foreign relations
of the Netherlands Government would be placed in the hands
of the Governor General of the Netherlands Bast Indies. The
mbassy

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
Embessy was told by e reliable source thct the story wes
"pure febrication*. The Netherlands Minister hed celled at
the Foroign Office, the Embessy wes confidentinlly inf ormed,
to essure the Japenese Governmont of the continuance of sup-
plies of oil to Jepen.
About the middle of Mey the press begen to emphesize
that Japen wes interested not only in the politicel status
guo of the Netherlands East Indies but clso in the economio
stetus quo. Alleged enti-Japenose incidents in the Netherlands
East Indies were reported but the crticlos were not inflem-
matory or sensetional.
The Ambessador wes informed in strict confidence from
e responsible source that the Foroign Minister hed exhibited
an elastic conception of the status quo of the Netherlands
Indies insisting thct present economic relations be meinteined.
Mr. Arite hed shown somo epprehension lest the entrence of
the Netherlends into the wer bring cbout c diminution of rew
materiel supplies to Japcn. Mr. Arite requested formel as-
surences from the Netherlands Government.
It was cppcront that the Notherlnds Government during
the month of May continued to nogotiato with tho Jepenese
concerning trade reletions betweon the Netherlcnds East Indies
end Jepan. This subject hed boen broeched by the Japanese
Government in the form of proposals put forwerd by the Japanese
Minister at The Hegue in February of this yeer. The Jepenese
are desirous of obteining assurod supplios of certain quantities
of tin, rubbor, petroleum, beuxite, nickel ore, manganese ore,
wolfrem, sorep iron, chrome iron ore, selt, cestor soeds,
quinine berk end molybdenum. From information rocoived by tho
Imbassy there was adequate reason to believe thet the Netherlands
Govermment would make every effort to satisfy Japan's desires
in an economio sonse, and it was not expected that Japen,
hevins recoived suoh satisfection, would on its own initiative
tako

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
take in the immediate future and under conditions now
existing any measures epproaching militery intervention in
the Indies.
(b) Great Britain.*
During the month of May, Anglo-Japenese relations
centered about efforts to effect a settlement of the so-cal-
led Tientsin question, and efter considerable jockeying on
both sides praotical. agreement was reached by the end of the
month on the question of the wording of various confiden-
tial oral and written memoranda and engagements which were to
be exchanged at the time of the announcement of the set-
tlenent of the question. This announcement was not forth-
coming during the month of May, but the British authorities
expressed optimism that the Tientsin question would be solved
in the very near future. The delay was probably due in part
to the technical difficulties involved in reaching agreement
on minor points and in part to the overshadowing importance
of events in Europe.
(c) China.**
773.94
During the month of Way information reaching the Em-
bassy indicated that the Japenese Government wes not aloof
to considering the possibility of direot negotiations with
Chungking, provided those negotiations have the blessing of
the Aerican and British Governments and could be, at least
in the first stages, conducted in the utmost secrecey. De-
velopments in Europe and domestio and politioal considera-
tions in Jipan prevented the making of any progress in this
direction.
*Imbassy's despatoh no. 4732, May 31, 1940, Embassy's tele-
rem no. 313, May 8, 4 p.m.
22, 5 p.m.

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
direction. On May 29 the Director of the Information
Bureau of the Foreign Office tolå foreign correspondents
that there had been no change in Japanese policy toward
the Wang Ching-wei regime and was quoted as having said
"Japan is hurrying to recognize the ang Cing-wei Government."
During the month of Mey, however, General Abe, Japan's
plenipotentiary conducting negotiations with the China re-
gime at Nanking, apparently limited his activities to "im-
portant interviews with high J panese nilitary officials
in China. There are no conorete developments in the ne-
gotiations with Wang Ching-wei.
The Japanese press in commenting on the fall in the
exchange value of the Chinese doliar during the early part
of May exhibited nore anxiety than jubilation. One reason
given for the decline of the exchange value of the Ciina
currency was deliberate manipulation by foreign interests
for anti-J. :anese purposes. It was pointed out that des-
truction of the C.inese dollar would bring serious economic
injury to the areas under the control of Ninking and would
injure reconstruction plens. Chinese currency in Central
China continued to be a vexatious problem for the Japanese
and acted as a double-edged sword, injuring Jspanese purposes
by either its rise or fall in the foreign exchange value.
It is orthy of note in relation to chenging opinions
in Jeran vis-&-vis China that The P:rele Cloud Society, a
very reaotionary organization, during the month of Mey
published an advertisement in the press expressing the fol-
lowing ideass The new order in East Asia if not based on
mutual respect and common prosperity of the Japanese and
Chinese peoples and on the elimination of hatred will be
ephemeral.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
1
-140
ophemeral. Nations pursuing policies of selfishness, un-
fair competition, and impairment of the rights of others in
intornational relations, are in the longrun punished. It
woild be mistaken to believe that the new order in ast Asia
would be made effeotive by establishing an economic bloc
of self-sufficiency consisting of Japan, China and "Man-
chukuo". Japanese tyranny over China must not replace the
tyranny exercised in the past by certain Occidental nations
if the new order in ast Asia is to be carried out.
1. Military Operations*
The prinoipal military operations during the month
of May by the Japanese forces centered in the Honan-Hupeh
area. Beginning on May 1 and lasting for approximately ten
days, the Japanese army began from a line along Sinyang-
Suisien-Chungshang an attempted envelopment along the Tang
and Fai Rivers. The Japanese employed eight divisions and
in their reports claimed success. From experience, however,
competent observers are of the opinion thet while the Japa-
nese may have been successful, the degree of such success
is problematical. The Chinese forces usually escape. There
followed a lull of approximately nine days during which time
the Japanese withdrew to the vicinity of Tsaoyang.
The secona stage of movements in this area began about
May 19 and continued until May 23. Four or five divisions
were used by the Japanese. This second operetion was a
repeated envelopment maneuver on a smaller scale carrying
the Japanese foroes still further beyond the Tang and Pai
Rivers. These operations were well supported by the Army
air foroes.
During
red wit the assistance of the Ofrice of the

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
During the month under review, there were other scat-
tered operations of minor significance in North, Central
and South China.
2. Air Activities.
The principal target for the Japenese air forces (com-
prised largely of naval units) was Chungking. The bombings
of Chungking, which had begun in April, were continued
throughout the month of lay whenever weather conditions were
satisfactory for aerial operations.
(d) France*
Under date of May 3, May 6, and May 7, 1940, the French
Ambassador addressed strong notes to the Japanese Govern-
ment protesting against Japanese actions in the bombing of
the Yunnan Railway and violating French Indo-Chinese ter-
ritory. The representations pointed out that conspicuous
frontier markings had been set up to make impossible future
mistakes concerning the location of the border. A statement
of claime for compensation for French and colonial citizens
killed or wounded by the Japanese bomberdment of the Yunnan
Railway on February 1, 1940, was also presented.
Information reached the mbassy during the month of May
to the effeot that the French Government was prepared to
conolude with the Japenese Government an arrangement con-
cerning the French Concession at Tientsin similar to that
oonoluded between the British end Japanese Governments in
respect of the British Concession. The Frenoh agreement
would apply in part to the question of silver in the Frenoh
concession and the raising of the blockade around the foreign
coneessions.
(e) Peru.*
m s despatehes nos. 3705, May 14, 1940; 4706, May 14,
bassy s telegrams nos. Sas, May 10, ? p.m., 871, May

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
(o) Peru.*
The anti-Japanese riots in Lima, Peru, were pro-
minently reported by the vernacular press. The Peruvian
Chargé d'Affaires at Tokyo was called to the Foreign Of-
fioe on May 15 and informed by the Llinister for Foreign
Affairs that the official protest of the Japanese Government
would be made through the Japanese Legation in Lima. The
Ninister requested that the Peruvian Government take adequste
measures to protect Japanese life and property and expres-
sed regret thet such an incident should occur in view of the
friendly relations between Japan and Peru. While a Japa-
nese delegation, accompanied by police in plain clothes pre-
sented a protest to the Peruvian Legation in Tokyo, there was
no demonstration or agitation at the Peruvian Legation here
or at the Peruvian Consulates at Yokohama and Kobe.
(f) Brazil.**
The Ambassador was reliably informed thet there was no
truth in a Domei despatch from Rio de Janeiro published on
May 24 in various nevspepers in Japan alleging that the
Brazilien Minister for Foreign Affeirs had emphasized thet
Japan end Brazil should seek more intimate acquaintence with
eaoh other; and that the "one-sided" trade between the two
countries should be corrected and certain long-term credits
extended to Brazilian exports, such as cotton. Commenting
on the China Inoident, the Brazilian Minister was reported
to have said that Japan's position is understandable and that
the hostilities were brought about by the unfriendly polioy
of neighboring oountries.
III. INTERNAL :
besay's telegrem no. 892, May 30, ? p.m.

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
-17-
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS
(a) Cabinet.
The press announced on May 27 that conferences be-
tween Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs,
Warand Navy Ministers, were to be held at regular inter-
894.882
vals in the future. At these conferences, it was reported,
the four Ministers would discuss and decide upon high po-
licies for the settlement of the China incident and with
regard to the oourse Japan is to follow in the rapidly
changing international conditions. Other State Ministers
may also be asked to attend the conferences from time to
time. The newspaper opinion concerning the establishment
of what was termed "an inner Cabinet" as generally reserved,
but it was unanimous in the conviction that the present u-
opeen hostilities and developments in the worla are of vital
importance to Japan and require the most careful treatment.
The close relation between the settlement of hostilities in
China and the developments in Europe was pointed out. Some
newspapers, such as the YOMIURI and the KOKUMIN, warned that
isolation for any nation is impossible today and predicted
that it may become necessary to reexemine Japan's policy of
non-involvement in the European war. These problem's, it was
believed, would inevitably be disoussed by the four-minister
conference.
The Imbassy was of the opinion that the establishment
of this compact, policy-making unit would not result in any
immediate changes in policy.
(b) Statements of Government Ofrioials.
On May 3 the Foreign Minister, addressing the Japan
International
w's telegrams nos. 386, May 28, 7 p.m.; 387, Lay 28, 8
B04, May 4, noon; 310, May 6, 10 p.m.

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.97)
-18-
International Association, urged the nation to avoid reck-
less proposals that Japan go to war with third countries.
1.
He stated that the primary object of Japen's diplomatio polioy
was to settle the "incident" with China and, in so far as
possible, to avoid friction with other Powers. He stated
that Americen-Japanese relations vere ospeciaily mportant
and that he would endeavor not to ggravate those rclations
even in spite of the absence of a treaty of criamerce anc.
navigation. He asserted that the "Chungking regine" must
be orushed and that Japan has no choice other than to sup-
port the Wang Ching-wei regime.
The HOCHI and the ICHI NICHI, commenting on this speech,
berated the Foreign Minister's assertion that Japan should
by all means seek to avoid friction vlth third countries
and asserted that it was necessery to distiiguish from among
third countries those which were assisting Chinng Ksi-shek
and those which were sympathetic to Japan's desires.
The NICHI NICHI declared that so long as the United
States supports Chiang Kai shek, adjustment of American-
Japanese relations will be impossible.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNLIENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GNERAL ECONOLIC AND FINANCIAL CONDITTONS.
(a) Rice Problem.*
From the various meagre press reports concerning the
Government's progrem for the purohasing of domestic rice
in the amount of 10,500,000 koku (1 koku = approximately
5 bushels) it was obvious that the progrem was meeting with
considerable
's Gespatsh no. 4711, May 15, 1940.

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
1v
considerable difficulty. The linister of Agrigulture never-
theless urged the cooperation and assistance of various pre-
fectural governors and expressed confidence that the progrem
of purchasing domestic rice would be successfully completed
by the end of May. The Government undoubtedly had in mind
the necessity of acquiring these holdings in order to assure
the availability of a minimum amount of rice necessary for
the carry-oer period prior to the hervesting of this year's
crop. It was reported thet compulsory sile of rice had been
practioed in several areas. At the same time it became more
nearly apparent that the Government was being foroed to im-
port more foreign rice than had originally been anticipated.
The press was unanimous in its censure of the secrecy prac-
tioed by the Government concerning rice supplies and was
skeptical over the degree of success achieved by the Govern-
ment in meeting the shortage. The question remained a serious
politioal issue and rationing was undertaken in several small
ciroles and was suggested for the general Kwansai area around
Osake and Kobe. It was believed, however, that the problem
was still largely one of distribution, but there were in-
creasin: evidences that Japenese consumers as well as pro-
ducers of rice were not entirely confident of the Government's
ability to continue to meet the demand for rice. There was,
aocordingly, an intensification of the tendenoy to hoard this
essential commodity. Various factors, such as the probable
less than average quantity of fertilizer whioh would be avail-
able to farmers, the probable less than usual number of agri-
oultural laborers, and the small prosepot of inoreasing the
mount of equipment and materials available to farmors in-
aioated

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
dicated very little likelihood of an inorease of rice produc-
tion for this year, and it was believed to bo not at all im-
probable that total production will be less than normal. It
is significant to noto that importation of rice was made neces-
sary by the unusual and unforesoen circumstances of the sovere
drought of last year. Foreign exchange funds set aside for
purohase of primary industrial materials were necessarily
diverted from their intended purposes, and that diversion made
moro diffioult international remittances end the purchase
of materials requirod for the Government's progrem of in-
dustrial expansion.
(b) Labor Problem.*
There have been for some time comments in the verna-
cular papers concerning a "shortage of labor" in Japan. It
was announced during the month of May that a spocial census
of laborers and toohnicians would be undertaken and would
be used as tho basis for "labor mobilization, strengthening
of the labor power of Japan, and improvement in the mobili-
zation of teohnicians". Tho most sorious shortago is to be
found in the ranks of skillod laborors and is not limited to
Japan alone but, from various reports, is prevalont through-
out the "yen-bloo area". In spite of the so-called labor
shortage, real wagos in Japan have not kopt paoe with in-
flationary trends and rising commodity pricos. It is to be
noted, however, that skilled workers are receiving oxcoptional-
ly high wages in the munitions and other heavy industries. In
many instances those laborers are paid salaries far above the
salaries ordinarily received by responsible government of-
ficials, store managers, end other workers.
Barly
basay's dompatoh no. 4713, May 15, 1940.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
-21-
Ecrly in May it was announcod thet the Govornment,
through tho Home Ministry, hcd docided to prohibit the
formation of e new Labor Party end et the same timo it was
said that the Governmont would probcbly teko somo ection
egeinst labor unions in Japan.
(o) Genorel.*
Eoonomio statistics roloasod by tho Jepenese Govern-
ment for the month of May indiceted that domestic conditions
were slightly improved during tho month. National bond ab-
sorption was highor; thore was a substential increaso in
postel sevings; benk deposits increesed moro repidly then
bank loens. The volume of bank note circulction doclinod
somowhct. Tho Cost of Living Price Index issued by tho
Cebinot Stetisticnl Burecu showed e doclino in tho cost of
living. Wholosalo priccs doclined, but thero wes no chenge
in reteil prices in Tokyo. Uncertsinty over the world si-
tustion was reveelod in tho goneral crutious sttitude in
businoss circlcs. Shere prices declinod and thero wes ε
generel eir of uncortcinty within economic circlos, parti-
culerly with regcrd to Japan's internntionel markets end
its sourcos of rcw mctoricls.
The soasonel influx of gerden vogotables end agricul-
tural products cs well as tho ovorstockod condition of the
toxtilo industry contributed to the docline in the cost of
living. But it is believod thet during tho month of May
economio conditions in Japan showed a definite improvoment
over thoso of the month of April.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII.
*Prepared with the assistance of the Commeroial Attach6's
Orrioo.

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.98)
-22-
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX. LABOR.
Seo VI (b).
X. MISC ILLANEOUS.
Arrost of Embassy trcnslctor, Satoru Sugimura.
Mr. Setoru Sugimura, trensletor et tho mbassy, was
crrestad on April 27 when an inedvertont remark of a new
errivel in Japen who had sold American curroncy to Mr.
Sugimura in violation of the Exchango Control Lcws ws over-
hecrd by Yokohame Weter Police. The Embessy requestod the
Department for telegrcphic cuthorization to cpproach the
Ministry of Foreign Affcirs in on effort to obtain Mr.
Sugimure's rolocse upon the grounds of diplometic immunity
end, having received such cuthorizction, nddressed e noto
on Mey 2, 1940, to the Foreign Office esking for Mr. Sugimura's
immedieto relonse. In spite of daily inquiry t the Foreign
Office following the delivory of this noto, tho Embessy wes
eble to obtain only the informrtion thrt discussions were
being held mong officicls of severel ministrios concornod.
On Mcy 9 one of the vorncoular pepors publishod c sonse-
tional cuticlo revoaling thct Mrs. Renzo Sawada, wifo of the
Jepanese Ambassador in Peris, wes also involvod in the case.
She had commissioned Mr. Sugimura, as woll as other American-
born Japenese, to purchase for hor Americen currenoy from
friends and eoqucintences upon their arrival in Jepen. The
Imbassy continucd to mcko ropoctod demends thrt the Foreign
Ofrice indionte whethor or not tho Jcpenoso Govornment will
recognize tho principle of diplomctic immunity as cpplied to
non-commissioned personnel of the Embassy. In further con-
versations with the Foroign Office it wes indioated that the
release

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.97)
-23-
relecso of Mr. Sugimurc could bo obtcinod nd the principal
of immunity would bo recognizod in this ccso provided tho
Embessy would give cn oral undort-king to discherge Mr.
Sugimure from tho employ of tho Embassy whilo he wes still
in Japen. This wes undoubtedly dosigned to oncble the
polico to ro-crrost Mr. Sugimure. Tho Embessy informed the
Foroign Offico thct it could not onter into discussions of
suoh condition prior to Mr. Sugimurc's rolcnse. Ho wcs
finally unconditionclly reloascd on May 16 cnd on tho semo
dey the Foroign Offico sont to the Embessy e note in which
it wes statod that the Jeprnoso Governmont "is disposod to
recognizo the exomption of such employoes who ro not Jape-
nese subjects from the cpplic tion of jurisdiction in crimi-
nel mettors" providing the Amoricon Govornmont oxtends re-
ciprocrl troctmont. It is of interest to noto th-t tho
Jnpenoso Govornment spocificclly excoptod native amployoos.
Mr. Sugimurn shortly thoroeftor took passego on a ship
sciling for tho Unitod States. Boforo sriling, howover, Mr.
Sugimur? in conversction with officors of the Embcssy indi-
octed thet tho conditions of his detention had been oxtrome-
ly discgreoeble end difricult. Tho cell whioh he shared
with several othor porsons wes infosted with vormin cnd wes
very amall and cremped. Sonitcry frcilitios wero of the
orudost sort. Ho wcs subjuctod to long hours of qucstioning
conoerning his work at the Embessy cnd cctivities of Embassy
members which could not hcve ny bocring on his clleged crimo.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT DURING MAY 1940
No.
Date
Subject
297 May 1, 2 p.m.
Repairs to S.S. West Cusseta
298 May 2, 1 p.m.
Mr. Sayre's call on the Foreign Minister -
press comments.
299 May 3, 7 p.m.
Projected new bank of issue in China.
British representations.
300 May 3, 11 p.m. Sayre conversations.
301 May 4, 1 a.m. Press release on Mr. Sayre's conversations.
302 May 3, 12 p.m. Mr. Sayre's conversations.
303 May 4, 5 a.m. Mr. Sayre's conversations.
 304 May 4, noon
Press report of address made by the Foreign
Minister to the Japan International
Association.
305 May 4, 1 p.m.
Travel conditions in Japan.
306 May 4, 8 p.m.
Press comment on the Thilippine immigration
bill.
307 May 5, 6 p.m.
Conversation between Mr. Sayre and the
Vice Linister for Foreign Affairs.
508 May 5, 8 p.m.
Mr. Sayre's conversations.
309 May 6, 7 p.m.
Press release of Mr. Sayre on his departure
from Japan.
510 May 6, 10 p.m. Editorial comment on the Foreign Minister's
address to the Japan International
Association.
311 May 6, 12 midnight Mr. Sayre's conversations.
312 May 7, 3 p.m.
Requisition for funds.
313 May 8, 4 p.m.
Tientsin negotiations.
314 May 8, 5 p.m.
Arrest of interpreter Matsuo at Taihoku.
315 May 8, 6 p.m.
Arrest of Matsuo.
316 May 8, 7 p.m.
Request for instruotions on setting up
of the commaroial reporting seotion.

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
No.
Date
Subject
317 May 8, 8 p.m. Resignation of Mr. Gaddis.
318 May 8, 9 p.m. Editorial conment concerning Mr. Sayre's
conversations.
319 May 8, 10 p.m. Press comment on the fall in exchange value
of the Chinese dollar.
320 May 9, 7 p.m. Advertisement of the Purple Cloud Society.
321 May 9, 9 p.m. Arrest of interrreter Sugimura.
322 May 10, 4 p.m. Request for additional code clerk.
323 May 10, 6 p.m. French policy on possible settlement of the
Tientsin question.
324 May 10, 7 p.m. Advertisement of the Purple Cloud Society.
325 May 10, 8 p.m. Fress comment on  ir. Sayre's conversatias
and their possible continuance by the
Ambassador.
326 May 1l, noon Cabinet meeting to review Japan's policy of
non-involvement in the European war.
327 May 11, 9 p.m. Presentation to the German Ambassador of a
cony of the Foreign Minister's statement
of Anril 15 with regard to the status of
the Netherlands Indies.
328 May 11, 10 p.m.British Ambassador's conversation with the
Foreign inister: Netherlands East Indies
question.
329 May 13, noon
Applicant for stenographic position -
George J. Tiso.
330 May 13, 4 p.m. Press comment on the Secretary's statement
with regard to the Netherlands East Indies.
331 May 13, 5 p.m. Arrest of Sugimura.
332 May 14, 3 p.m. Call of the Secretary of the Dutch
Legation at the Foreign Office with reference
to a report that British and French troops
had landed in the Dutch East Indies.
333 May 14, 4 p.m. Refusal of local talegraph office to accept
code telegrams for Batavia.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
334 May 14, 5 p.m. Tientsin question.
335 May 14, 6 p.m.
Comnunication to the Foreign Office of the
British Ambassador with regard to the
Netherlands East Indies.
336 May 14, 7 p.m. Refrigerators for the Embassy.
337 May 14, 8 p.m. Decoding of seoret telegram.
338 May 14, 9 p.m. Secret.
339 May 14, 10 p.m. Arrest of Interpreter Matsuo.
340 May 15, 11 &.m. Request for supplies.
341 May 15, 1 p.m. Social and civil unrest promoted by
Japanese agents in the Philipnines and
Jave.
342 May 15, 4 n.m. Arrest of Matsuo.
343 May 15, 9 p.m.
Press comment on anti-Japanese incidents
in the Dutch East Indies.
344 May 15, 10 p.m. Press comment on the direction of diplomatic
relations between the Netherlands and Japan.
345 May 16, 10 p.m. The Japan Advertiser".
346 May 16, 6 p.m. Press comment on the Dutch East Indies.
347 May 16, 9 p.m. Embassy's telephones.
348 May 16, 10 p.m. Press comments on the anti-Jananese riots
in Lima.
349 May 17, 13 noon Conversations of the British Ambassador
with important Japanese.
350 May 17, 2 p.m. Conversations between the Netherlands
linister and the Minister for Foreign
Affairs.
351 May 17, 9 p.m.
Substance of the telegram sent by the
British Ambassador - Netherlands East
Indies.
352 May 20, 11 a.m. Release of Sugimura.
353 May 20, noon
Authorization reguested for Miss Glaeser
to use confidential codes.

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
No. Date
Subject
354 May 20, 4 p.m.
Case of Luther Loucks.
355 May 20, 5 p.m.
Maintenance of status quo at Shanghai:
representations.
356 May 20, 5 p.m.
Request for stationery.
357 May 20, 7 p.m.
Movements of Japanese naval units.
358 May 21, 7 p.m.
Conversation of the Dutch Minister with
the :inister for Foreign Affairs - general
trade agreement.
359 May 22, 10 a.m. Arrest of Matsuo.
360 May 22, 5 p.m.
Tientsin question.
361 May 22, midnight Activities of terrorists at Shanghai.
362 May 22, 11 p.m. Representations - Nanyang Brothers
Tobacoo Company, Hankow.
363 May 23, 1 p.m.
Conversation of the German Imbassador
with the Foreign Office - press release
and press comment.
364 May 23, 2 p.m.
Decline of the pound sterling.
365 May 23, 7 p.m.
Arrest of Matsuo.
366 May 23, 9 p.m.
Telegram to the British Foreign Office by
the British Embassy - Dutch East Indies.
367 May 24, noon
Letters rogatory 3onken-Galamba Corporation
368 May 24, 3 p.m.
Employment of translator.
369 May 24th
Despatch of Japan Yearbook.
370 May 24, 6 p.m.
Visit to Japan of Manohukuo Emperor.
371 May 24, 9 p.m.
Conversation with the French Ambassador
or Mr. Grew.
372 May 25, 1 p.m.
Arrest of Matsuo.
373 May 25, noon
Return of Mr. Crocker.
374 May 25, 1 p.m.
Data required by the U. S. Maritime
Commission.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
No.Date
Subjeot
375 May 25, 6 p.m.
Radio address of Mr. Suma, Director of
the Information Bureau of the Foreign
Office.
376 May 25, 7 p.m.
Political activities in Japan.
377 May 25, 8 p.m.
Arrest of Matsuo.
378 May 26, 8 p.m.
Arrest of Matsuo.
379 May 27, 1 p.m.
Employment of American messenger.
380 May 27, 3 p.m.
Ambassador's address to the Pan-Paoific
Club.
381 May 27, 7 p.m.
Case of translator Sugimura.
382 May 27, 9 p.m.
Alleged intention to establish a new
central benk of issue in China.
383 May 27, 10 p.m. Continuing no. 388, May 27, 9 p.m.
384 May 28, 1 p.m.
Arrest of Metsuo.
385 May 28, 3 p.m.
Radio interference by station JND.
386 May 28, 7 p.m.
Decision to hold four-minister conferences.
1 387 May 28, 8 p.m.
Decision to hold four-minister conferenoes
comments.
388 May 28, 9 p.m.
Communication of the British Embassy on
the dedication of a shrine to the memory
of the late Admiral Togo.
389 May 28, 10 p.m.
Text of the British communication to the
memory of Admiral Togo.
390 May 29, 8 p.m.
Press conferences of Government officials.
391 May 29, 10 p.m.
Conversation of the Netherlands Minister
with the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs.
392 May 30, 7 p.m.
Press comment Japan-Brazil relations.
393 May 31, 2 p.n.
Representations - Universal Leaf Tobaoco
Company.
394 May 31, noon
Bombing of Chungking.
395 May 31, 5 p.m.
Representations - travel pn the Yangtze.
396 May 31, 6 p.m.
Reprasentations - Tientsin barriers.

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatohes sent to the Department
May 1940
Date
Subjec:
4688
May 2
French representaticns concerning
bombardment cf Yunnanfu Railway
and vicleticn cf Inuo-Chinese
frontior.
4633
May 2
Americar Property Lcsses: Claim
of Ralph Manson White, Soochow,
submitted to the Japanese Govern-
ment.
4684
May 2
Claim of Hewitt Douglas Rodger sub-
mitted to the Japanese Government.
4685
May 2
American Church Mission, Changsha;
Japanese reply to Embassy's repre-
sentations regarding bombing of
April 4, 1939.
4686
May 4
Japanese bombing of property of the
Christian and Missionary Alliance,
Taiping, March 10, 1940.
4687
May 4
Claim of Miss A. Viola Smith, Shang-
hai, submitted to the Japanese Govern-
ment.
4688
May 4
Diplomatic visa report.
4689
May 6
Illicit traffic in narcotic drugs in
the United States and the Philippine.
Islands in 1939.
4690
May 6
Request for provisional recognition
by the Japanese Government of Glen
W. Bruner, American Vice Consul at
Nagoya.
4691
May 6
Request for provisional recog-
nition by the Japanese Government
of Mr. Samuel Sokobin es American
Consul at Kobe.
4692
May 7
Postponement of the International
Congress of Mathematicians soheduled
to be held at Cambridge, assachuset-
ts, from September 4 to September 12,
1940.
4693
May 7
Tenth International Congress of Ifil-
itary Medicine and Pharmacy.
4694
May 7
International Service of Ioe Obser-
vation and Ice Patrol in the North
Atlantic Ooean for the yeer 1939.
4695
May 9
Pan-Pacirio Trading and Navigation
Company.
4696
May 9
Exchange of publications between the
United States Treasury Department and
the Bank of Japan.

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4697
May 10
Transmitting newspaper clipping
from The Japan Times of April 29,
1940, entitled "Takeshita plens
trip to Amerioa".
4698
lay 10
Transmittal of newspaper article
entitled "TiA Man Hore to Thank
Agencies" from The Japan Times of
April 26, 1940.
4699
May 10
Japanese interference with foreign
interests at Tientsin.
4700
May 11
Transmitting text of address del-
ivered by Mr. Stuart E. Grummon,
First Secretary of mbassy at the
inauguration of The Publio Sanitary
Institute in Tokyo on May 1l, 1940.
4701
May 11
Payments on powers of attorney to
authorized agents.
4702
May 14
Transmitting copies of Financial
and Economic Manual of Japan, 1939.
4703
May 13
Efforts to obtain dry dock facili-
ties for repair of U.S. Maritime
Commission Motor Ship EST CUSSETA
at Yokohama; attitude of Master of
a Japanese ship in refusing to ren-
der assistance at sea.
4704
May 13
Diplomatic visa report.
4705
May 14
French representations concerning
bombardment of Yunnanfu Railway and
violation of Indo-Chinese frontier.
4706
May 14
French representations concerning
Pearl River Pilotage.
4707
May 14
Informal talks between the High Com-
missioner to the Philippine Islands
an the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
4708
May 14
Tranamitting newspaper clipping con-
cerning prospeots for the develop-
ment of Hainan Island.
4709
May 14
British representations regarding
damage caused by Japanese armed forces
to British interests in China:
Eleventh set of olaims submitted.
4710
May 14
Treaty of Commeroe and Navigation
between Japan and Uruguay.
4711
May 15
The Present rice problem in Japen.
4912
May 15
Local leave of absence granted to
Nelson Newton, Clerk.
4918
May 15
Labor problems in Japan.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
4714
May 15
Burning of confidential code.
4715
May 15
Report of conditions in Japan
during the month of April 1940.
4716
May 18
Information regarding inheritance
laws of Japan.
4717
May 18
Diplomatic visa report.
4718
May 21
International Petroleum Exposition,
Tulsa, Oklahoma, May 1940: Japa-
nese delegates.
4719
May 23
Representations to the Japanese
Foreign Office concerning the case
of Luther L. Loucks.
4720
May 24
Interest of Nanyang Brothers To-
bacco Company, Inc., in certain
properties at Hankow.
4721
May 23
Case of Translator Sugimura ar-
rested by Japanese Police.
4722
May 23
Transmitting article entitled "atch-
ful Vaiting Best for Japanese" from
The Japan Advertiser of May 14, 1940.
4723
May 22
Fan-Pacific Trading Company - Ao-
tivities of Mr. William F. Lyte.
4784
May 22
Article 57 of the International Con-
vention for the Safety of Life at
Sea, 1929.
4725
May 27
Employment of George J. Tiso, Ameri-
can Clerk.
4726
May 27
Status of the Netherlands Sast
Indies.
4787
May 27
Diplonatic Vise Report.
4728
May 28
Status of the Netherlands East
Indies.
4729
May 28
Establishment by Chinese Author-
ities at Nanking of new bank of
issue in Central China.
4730
May 28
Address delivered by Ambassador Grew.
4751
May 31
Tranamitting tert of speeoh deli-
vered by the Counselor of Embassy
at Yokohama, Memorial Day, May 30,
1940.
4988
May 31
Tientsin negotiations.
4788
May 31
Restrictions on importations of
American moving piotures.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
4734
May 31
Reopening of the Pearl River to
Third-Power navigation.
4735
May 31
Japanese attack on British Airways
plane DARDAIUS.
4736
May 31
Japanese violation of Hong Kong
neutrality.
4737
May 31
Universal Leaf Tobacco Company.

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OE AMERICA
No. 4958
AMERICAN EMBASSY
SUBJCT: REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING E
MONTH OF JUNE 1940.
C
Kle
Cly in FE
CONFIDENTIAL
PA  STAT
894.00 P.R./1
02
CONMNUNATINS
REIVEO
The Sucretary of State,
9
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction
No. 93 of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to trangmit
herewith the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in
Jepen for the nonth of June 1940.
1.1
N
hespectfully yours
7.1.5
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure: Report N). 165
800
IN/S:gt
F/F
In sextuplioate to the Department.
Copies to E bassies: Feiping, Chungking, Loscow.
G
Copies to Consulates General: Shanghai, Lukden, H rbin,
Seoul; kyo.
Copies to Consulates: Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, N. Easaki,
Nagoya, Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to High Commissioner to the Philippine Islanas.
Coy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.95)
No. 165
REPORT OF CÓNDITICHS IH JAPAN
DURDNC E ICITH
OF JUNE 1940

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
INDEX
A N D
SUMMARY
pages
I. RELATIONS  ITH THE UNITED ST' TES
(a) The Grew-Arita Conversations
1-7
(b) Conditions at Shanghai
7-9
(0) Chungking Bombings
9-12
(d) Matsuo Case
12-14
(e) Representations made by the Embassy
during the nonth of June
14
(f) Visit of General O'Ryan to Jepan
14
(g) Jepanese press reports concorning (moricen
intention to prohibit the export of cortein
materiels.
14,15
(h) Jepanaso pross reports concorning Amorican
public opinion vis-è-vis Jepen
15,16
II. RELATIONS ITH OTHER COUNTRIMS
(a) Groat Britain
1. Sottlanent of the Tiontsin quostion
16,17
2. Japanoso domends for cossetion of
transportation of militory supplios
to Chungking
17-19
3. British protost ageinst Chungking
19
(b) Sovict Russia
19,20
(o) Notharlends East Indies
20-22
(a) Frenoe cnd Fronch Indochine
22,23
(e) Thailand
23
(r) Chinc
23,24
III. INTERNAL POLITIC'L AFF/IRS
24-27
IV. COURSE OF LEGISL TION
27
V. GOVERNAENT FINANCE
27
VI.

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
VI. GEN RIL ECONOMIC AND FIN/NCI/L CONDITIONS
27-29
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERIC:N COMMERCI/L INTERESTS
29
VIII. LCTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMIERCIAL INTERESTS
29
IX. L/BOR
29
X.IISCILLANEOUS
29

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS VITH THE UJITED STATES
(a) The Grev-Arita Conversations.*
In analyzing the situation here early in the
nonth of June, it vas apparent to the Anbassador that
there existed in Japan a state of political turmoil of
unusual intensity. There vas one factor uniting all
elenents, and that was the desire to bring about an
early settlenent of the "China incident". Vice dif-
ferences of opinion were indicated, hovever, as to the
means considered cesirable to effect a settlermt and the
terms of the settlement itself. Some auvocated an under-
standing with Russia, looking to a partition of China
similar to that of Poland. The supporters of this line
of procedure also advocated seizure of the Netherlands
East Indies to forestall the taking over of those
islands by the Gernans. Those individuals vere not
seriously detracted by the almost certainty that the
United States vould undertake econonic reprisals against
such action by Japan. They discountec the possibility
of a var betveen the United States and Japan. There vas
a second. school of thought vhich vas fundanentally pro-
Gorman, and its hand vas being daily strenthened and its
prestige increased by the groving German success in
Europe
*Embassy's telegrans: 400, June 3, 'noon; 412, June 4,
7 p:m.; 429, June 10, 6 p:n.; 431, June 10, 8 p.n.;
433, Jun0 11, 9 a.m.; 447; J. r0 12, 10 a.1.; 443, J ne
12, 11 a.1.;'472, June 19; 9 p.n.; 478, June 20; noon;
484, June 23, 2 p.m.; 487; June 24, 2 p:1.; 509, June
28, 10 p.n:; 510, June 28, 11 p.m.; 511, June 28, mid-
night; 512,  June 29; 1 a.n. Department's'telegrans:
180, June 4, 11 p.m.; 203, June 15, 2 p..; 215, June
22, noon.

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Europe. The general pro-Gernan novenient was of course
being assicuously encouraged by German officials in
Japan. Gernany vas, in the opinion of the Enbassy, mo-
tivated by the belief that continued uncertain relations
between Japan and the United States vould tend to have
a restraining influence upon the possibility of American
active partfcipation in the var in Europe. Counterposed
to the above schools of thought was another group which
believed that fundanontally Japan vould gain more fron
cood relations and cooperation  ith the democracies than
With the totalitarian povers. They percoived the unsound
reasoning behind the acvocacy oi a self-sufficiont eco-
nomic bloc of Japan, China, anc "Ianchulkuo". Tis group
favored a reasonable peace vith Chiang Kai-shek and was
doubtful of tho ability of the Vang Ching-vei regine to
succeed. It vas apparent that the Government vas under
great pressure and there vere ruaors in reliable quarters
that the Cabinet could not continue for hore than a month
or tvo unless a feeling of assurance of future British
and American econonic and financial cooperative assistance
should replace tho vidaspread belief at that time that
Japan coulc hone for nothing in the way of constructive
assistance fron Great Britain and the United States.
In the licht of this analysis of the situation the
Anbassador early in June tegain a serios of conversations
vith the linister for Foreign Affairs and, as occasion of-
fered, vith proninent Japanese. In these conversations
it was his intention to convey to the Ifinister and to
others, vithout any cormitments thatsoever, the thought
that

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
that it vas by no rneans iipossible to bring about an
era of nutually helpful A rican-Japancse relations,
and to indicate that, in the A assador's ovm opinion,
the tine vas opportune for Japan to make a positive nove
in that cireotion.
On June 10 the Aabassador net and talkcd vith the
Iinister for Forcign Affairs. At he A ssador's sug-
cestion the neeting was regardec as entirely infornal,
the A assador informing the linister that he vas acting
entirely on his ovn initiative and speaking his own
thoughts. Im. Grev said that in his opinion it was
inportant and possibly helpful that the tvo should fron
tine to time explore the field of A r can-J anese re-
lations. The Anbassador vent on to say that he wished
to nake clear that our relations vith J an cannot be
expected fundamentally to inprove so lon as Japan
interfores vith Anorican rihts and intorests anc continues
to cndoavor to achieve various positive national ob-
jectives through neasures of force. T e A orican C: vern-
nent and people vould, on the other hand, velcono an
early return to nutually cood and helpful relations vith
J.pan and would, accordingly, sympathetically viev con-
crete evicence of a reorientation of Japanese policy and
efforts foregoing the use of force. The A bassador
devoted considerable time to setting forth the unsoundness
of oreating econonic blocs and trade barriers vhich could
never constitute a pernanent basis for progressive vorld
econony. T:e A assador's entire ap roach was in broad
terms and particular care was taken to avoid any possible
inference

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
inference that the American Governnont or its Anbas-
sador were turning tovarc a procedure of compronise or
abandonnont in point of policy or principle. Ir. Arita
in reply said that he agreed "in spirit and in principle
vith everything" vhich the Anbassacor had said. Speak-
ing "off the record" the Minister indicated that the
Govornment vas having cifficulty in coping vith various
elenents in Japan vhich advocatec rapprochement vith
the totalitarian powers. The Iinister asio? specifical-
ly that Ir. Crev infoi the American Covernient of Ir.
Arita's query as to vhat concrete suggestions the
American Government coulc offer for inproving relations
between the two countrios.
On June 12 the Minister for Forcin Affairs sent
the Anbassador an "infomal oral and unofiicial state-
ment" marled "Strictly Confidential". The inister
said that this docunont cid not in any vay comit the
Japanese Governnent but nerely served to indicate certain
thoughts which had occurred to hin after the conversation
on June 10. Folloring an expres ion of a desire and
spirit to inprove Alerican-Japanese relations, the oral
statenent went on to say that Japan at that time was
unavoidably using nilitary force as an instrument of
national policy in view of the causes of the China in-
cident and present actual concitions. Japan, the state-
Lrnt said, should reasonable terns be availasle, was
prepared to bring the inoidont to a close at any time.
Improvenent of Japanese-Anerican relations, it vas
stated, required the pronpt settlonent of the China in-
cident and at the same tine the devotion of great efforts
to

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
efforts to the solution of other problens affecting
those relations. The belief was expressed that it
vas then opportune to reach "proper settlement" of
those other problens. The statenent concludod by
posing several querics vhich it vas suggested vere
worthy of particular study. There vere anong others
the questions vhether it light not be dosirable to con-
clude a comercial modus vivenci, and hother aterial
and financial assistance to Chiang Kai-shek micht not
cease and Japan and the United States cooperate in the
reconstruction of China.
On June 19 the Anbassador again not the Iinister
for Forcicn Affairs and inforied hin that the American
Governient vas siving careful study to all that Ir. Arita
had said in recent conversations with the Anbassador. Ir.
Grev disoussed at some length the broad underlying
policies and principles belicved in by the Governient of
tho United States, and vas throughout careful to assure
that the coor be kept open for exploring in the future
any constructive possibilitics. The Ai assador in-
dicated to Ir. Arita that the American Governnont believed
that as soon as roasonably clcar indications energed
that the ains and intentions of Japan are of a character
consistont vith the underlying policies belioved in by
the United States many practical avenues vould develop
which could bo explored to mutual advantage. The only
response nade by tho linister was that in viev of "the
great inportance" of the cormunication which he had just
received, he believed it best not to corment until he
had given tho matter further study. Iir. Arita expressed
his appreciation at the opening of these conversations
and stated that ho would reply in due tine.
on

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
-5(ε)-
On Juno 20 tho CHUG:I clono of cll tho vernccular
nowspepors in a prominontly focturod rrticle roportod
thet tho /mericcn Governmont through tho mericen /m-
bessccor ct Tokyo hed inaic-ted to tho J p ncso Govern-
mont its proparodncss to ccjust reletions with Jepen.
The American approcch wes cheractorizof cs "crcfty"
end a "mattor of convenienco". T : -rticle vont on
to say th:t nogotictions woro boing continuoc but that
concrcte ovicence of mericcn intention wes 1 cking nd
asscrtec that tho truo ronson for tho 'mericin pro-
posel wes to bo foun? in tho ovorwhelning Gormen vic-
torios in Europc an the possibility of Japan's join-
ing tho "nti-Donocretic bloc".
on

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
On June 28 the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked
Mr, Grew to call. The Minister said that the Japanese
Governnent had carefully studied the statement by the
Ambasse.or on June 19. In his opinion there were "no
differences in opinion practically" between the Japanese
and American Governments if consideration were given
to the fact that there exist hostilities in China. Mr.
Arita gave the Ambassador an "oral statement" and said
that except as modified by this oral statement the
Japanese Government agreed with the views of the Govern-
ment of the United States as orally presented by Mr.
Grew on June 19.
Mr. Arita agreed fully that every effort should
be made to minimize the unfortunate results of the
present European war. He stated that Japan's desires
were to see ell nations enjoy their proper places and
to see peece established and maintained throughout
the world. This enteiled, he said, respect for the prin-
ciples of nationel sovereignty, justice, law, end order.
It was considered necessary that each country eppreoiate
the other's position in the light of world changes and
actual conditions. Mr. Arita went on to assert that
although Japen had always advocated free movement of
both men and commodities, there existed immigration
restrictions and the control of markets anā of the flow
of

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.98)
.-7-.
of commodities, which restrictions are strengthened or
lightene at the will of the countries concerned. Each
conditions make it imperative thet Japan "should en-
deavor to preserve certain special trade relations with
neighboring countries and regions".
There were no further conversations on this sub-
just between Mr. Grew and Mr. Arit during the month of
June.
(b) Conditions at Shanghai.*
On June 4 the British Arb ssador informed Mr. Grew
that he was prepared to make representations to the
Japanese Foreign Office concerning terrorist activities
in Shanghai. The Ambassador proposed within the next
few days, as suitable occasion offered, to make an
oral and informal approach to the Foreign Office urging
the advisebility of doing away with unlawful armed
groups in areas under Jepanese control at Shanghai.
Early in June the vernacular press gave considerable
attention to a rumor from Shanghai to the effect that
the authorities in the French Concession there were ne-
gotiating for the transfer to the United States of the
responsibilities of policing the French Concession.
The pross also reported that strong representations were
to be made by the Jepanese Government to the French Go-
vornmont through the Fronch Ambassador at Tokyo. Inquiry
at the Fronch Embessy disclosed that the Foreign Office
had not communioated with the French Embassy conoerning
this quostion.
on
*Mabassy's tolegrams: 404, June 4, 11 am.m; 421, June 6,
7 p.m.; 438, Juno 11, 10 p.m.; 469, June 19, 4 p.m.;
477, June 20, 11 a.m.; 498, June 26, 2 p.m. Departmont's
telegrams: 201, June 14, 1 p.m.; 217, June 22, 6 p.m.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
On June 19, conformably with the Departmont's in-
structions, tho Counsolor mede an informal approach to
the Jepanese Foreign Offico concorning tho spato of
rumors in regard to the Intornational Settloment and
tho French Concossion at Shenhai. Attention was direc-
ted to the basoloss roport issued by the Japaneso nows
agoncy DOMEI on Juno 5 concerning ellogod ncgotiations
botwoon Fronch end American authoritios rolative to
administrativo and polico dutios in tho Fronch Concos-
sion. The suggestion was offored for consideration by
tho Jepenoso Govornment that alerm caused by thoso
rumors might be dispolled should tho Jcpcnose cuthor-
ities mako ε public stctomont conoorning tho foroign
caministorod arons ct Sh nghri clong the gonorcl lines
of tho clocr cnd ortogoriccl cssurncos lrocdy givon
by tho Jep noso Ministor for Foroign Affairs to tho
Amoricon Ambosscdor on May 13, 1939. On tho semo day
tho Arib sscdor took occesion to roport to tho Ministor
for Foreign Affcirs the cbove suggostion. Mr. Arite
mcdo no commont.
On July ll tho Foreign Offico medo on informal
roply on cn undctod shoot of pepor to tho Embessy's in-
formel roprcsont:ticns mado on Mcy 20 concorning the
maintenanco of the stctus quo ct Sn nghii. This roply
statod thct tho Jepanose Govornment, whilo undorstanding
tho intentions of tho Americen Governmont, must striotly
maintain the position takon in Septombor of last yeer
in rogcrd to doing away with crmements cnd the withdrewcl
of gunborts end troops of belligerent powers in Chine.
Tho Jepenoso Governmont resorvod tho right "to teke in-
dependent cotion". The reply also scid thct, while the
stetement

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.96)
-9-
statemont wcs mrde in the Amorioen roprosent tions
that Italy h-d oxprossod agroomont with tho maintenance
of the stctus guo, cccording to tho vorified information
of the Jepanoso Governmont this ststemont, t loest in
so fr cs Shrnghai wos concerned, wrs "contr ry to tho
fcots".
(c) Chungking Bombings.*
Conformably with tho Departmont's iustructions,
the Ambassedor on Juno 1 convoyed to the Ministor for
Foroign Affeirs tho fect that thoro wore no nti- ir-
creft guns loc ted nocr Amorican oil compony inst-lle-
tions in Chungking. Ag in on Juno 14, with ppropricto
rofor nco to provious roprosontations, tho Ambasscãor
sew the Ministor for Foroign Affcirs :nd brought to his
cttontion & statomont givon to tho pross by thc Socro-
tory of St to concorning the bombing of Chungking on
the previous dey. The Ministor r pliod to tho Ambes-
sodor thot the Americen reprosontctions wero invarisbly
hindsd on to tho military ruthoritios, whoso reports
wero generrlly t verionco with tho Amoricen roports.
Ho went on to sey thct tho milit ry euthoritios insist
thct they oxeroise the utmost oare cnd thet they attrok
only militrry objoctivos in bombing Chungking. The
Ambcasrdor in turn stetod thet tho indiscrimineto bomb-
ing of civilion populctions is not a mettor of spocule-
tion but of fully confirmed faot, tnd roroed to the
Ministor pertinont portions of an officicl report from
Ambassedor Joison which clearly showed the ruthloss
chareotor
*Imbcssy's to1 grams: 398, Juno 1, 7 p.m.; 399, June
6 p.m.; 450, June 14, 7 p.m.; 451, Juno 14, 8 p.m.; 452,
Juno 15, 6 p.m.; 463, June 18, 8 p.m. Department's
tolegrems: 174, June 1, 3 p.m.; 197, June 13, 5 p.m.:
202, June 14, 7 p.m.; 233, Jun6 29, 6 p.m.

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
-10-.
chercoter of tho bombing rcids mede on Chungking. As
on his own initictive Mr. Grow roforrod to the serious
risk thet ero being incurrod.
On his return from mo. ting with trs Iinis or for
Foruign Affeirs, tho Amb st edor rocoived a first-porson
noto from the Ministor stating that tho Japanoso mili-
tary suthorities plsnned t! croeftor to increaso tho
sovority of tho attccks on Chuntking. Tho Jenanuso noto
roitoratod thet tho Jepenoe forccs ero ondoevoring by
overy mecns to provont inji ry to Amorican citizons cnd
Amorioan intorosts thcro, tut thet tho Chineso forcos
frequontly construct enti-circraft gun amplacomonts end
othor militcry fecilitios in tho closo proxinity of the
osteblishments of third-country netionals. I+ wes folt
that for this rorson "in tho midst of scvoro fighting
it will not bo possiblc to provont unavoi blo inoidonts
cffecting Imeric-n citizens end ostrblishmonts". Tho
Japcnoso Govornmont urgod theroforo thet Imoriccn of-
ficirls end citizons bo tomporrrily ovecurted to c scfo
plcoo tnd st-tod thrt tho Jrprnoso Govornment does not
intond to bomb cort in rrccs south of thc Yrngtzo Rivor.
Tho noto conoluded thet tho Jepenoso Governmont could
not "scoopt rosponsibility should unforosoon circumstancos
criso if Amoriorn offioinls nd nationals romcin in crocs
other thcn tlose' outlinod in tho noto rs boing scfo.
Conformcbly with tho Depertmont's instructions tha
Ambcsscdor properod e formel noto cddrossod to tho Ministor
for Foroign Iffairs st ting thct tho Governmont of tho
Unitod States oould not cooopt tho viaw thrt tho oity of
Chungking in gonor l is c logitim:to targot for cir ettcok.
It wcs pointod out thct thoro cro f oonsidorrblo numbor
of Amorionn oitizons ct Chungking; that thero is Ameriocn
proporty

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.96)
-11-
pooporty thoro; thst tho Govornmont of tho Unitod Stetes
maintcins en offico of its Embcssy to Chinc, cs woll es
tho gunbo-t U.S.S. TUTUILI, in Chungking. The smbcsstdor
pointod out tho sorious hoz:rds cocompcnying lrrgo-sorlo
bombing oporstions nd cddod th-t lthough Amoriorn of-
fioirls hrvo ravisod nd will continuo to cdviso Amori-
con nationcls to withdrrw from prrtioul:rly dongorous
crocs, thoso Imoriocn nationcls cro undor no obligation
to do so. Thoroforo tho Govornmont of tho Unitod Statos
must look to tho Japancso Govornmont to void militry
oporetions imporiline tho scfoty of Imoricon nctionels
cnd will oxpoct to hold tho Jap:noso Govornmont rosponsiblo
for injury or lossos sufforod by Imoricon n tioncls. The
'mbesscdor endocvorod to obtcin n intorviow with the
Ministor for Forcign ffairs but wrs unablo to do so ct
oncc nd wes thoroforo foxocd to m-ko his roprosontstions
to tho Vioo Ministor with tho roquost thrt thoy bo brought
immodirtoly to Mr. Aritr's attontion. In his orrl ro-
marks th Imbrssador grrvoly nd vigorously omphcsizod
the hazcrds to tho livos of Imoricrn citizons nd to tho
scfoty of thoir property, nd tho doplorcblo cffoot on
Amorion public opinion nd on rolstions botwcon tho Unitod
St-tcs and Japen whioh would follow tho injury or killing
of Amorioan nationels by Japanoso bombing oporations. Tho
Vioe Ministor ropliod that sinco thc roprosontations wero
for tho Ministor for Forcign ffairs, the lattor would
hi :solf convey his roply to tho Imbassedor in duo courso.
On Juno le the Ministor for Forcign iffairs addros-
sod a roply to tho /mbassedor. Tho roply essortod thet
Chungking as the military and politiocl contor of tho
Chieng K i-shok rogimo wes strongly fortifiod, wes tho
soat of politicel and military offioos, es woll es of
mi1itary

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.97)
-12-.
militcry trcining schools, ersonels, fectorios cnd store-
housos; cnd thct J-pen was lawfully justified in destroy-
ing Chuncking as tho baso of militery oporetions in ro-
sistanco to Jepan. The c-ro which the J:penosc military
olaimed to hsvo oxercised to avoid damego to third-powor
intorosts and proporty was roitoratod, as was tho chargo
that Chinoso doliborately placo militery osteblishmonts
in the close proximity of third-powor proportics. It
wes assortod thet eny demego ccused to such property
was necosserily considcrod unevoidcblo curing thet typo
of militery activity. Tho Jep neso Govornmont oxprossod
its inability undor thoso circumstances to undorstend
tho stetomont thet Japsnoso eir forces ero meking indis-
crimineto bonbing εttecks. It wes again said thet the
J'panoso military foroes would not rolax thoir attacks
and that tho Japenoso Govornment could not accept res-
ponsibility for unavoidable demeges whioh might occur as
ε result of the militery activities. Referonce was mede
to the Minister's note of June 14, 1940, requosting thet
'mericen netionals be ovecueted.
Tera wes no furthor exchenge of correspondence on
this question during the month of June.
(a) Metsuo C.ss.*
Tio Consul et Taihoku reported on June 3 thet Mr.
Metsuo wes sontenced to three yeers imprisonment end that
it had boen docided to eppeal the case.
In .cuordnce with the Departmont's instructions,
the fi-ssedor on June 10 in a convorsation vith tho
Minister
*Imbassy's tolograms: 402, June 4, 9 e.m.; 415, June 4,
10 p.m.; 425, June 7, 7 p.m.; 432, Jun3 10, mianisht;
462, Juno 18, 7 p.m.; 476, Juno 20, 10 a.m.; 514, June
29. 10 a.m. Dopartment's tolograms: l86, Juno 7, 8 p.m.;
18, June 20, 7 p.m.; 230, Juno 28, 6 p.m.

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
-13.
Minister for Foreign Iffairs reforrod informally to the
Matsuo case and indicated thet the imerican Government
would be inpellod to ucke deductions es to the signi-
ficance of the ceso as indiceting treetment to be ex-
pectaá for other /merican offices in Jepen. He mede
reference to the fact that importent considerations of
prinoiple and reciprocal treatment were necessarily in-
volved. The mbassador emphasized thet the Imerioan
Government hes no desire vhatever to condone any viola-
tion of le, but thst under every rule of reasonable-
ness and comity the Governnent of the United Stetes must
feel itself entitled to a stetenent from the Jepanese
authorities in regerd to the aotivities and actions of
Matsuo vwhich were deemed to be the grounds for his con-
viction.
This cese wes also discussed by the Counselor of
Embassy with t.e Director of the 'mericcn Bureau of the
Foreign office.
The merican Consulate at Teihoku reported on June
17 that the lavyers defending liatsuo had given up the
case under pressure and that the influentiel and con-
servative perty SEIS NTo hed teken up tre case in an
advertisement in the NICHI NICHI there severely criti-
oizing /merica's warlike attitude toward Japan" and al-
leging that the !merican Government vas sending 20,000
to the Consulete et Teihoku for "easily imagined purposes".
Particular resentment was expressed vith regerd to the
feot that the Consulate was no longer performing services
which had been of considereble benefit to the Jepanese.
Again on June 19 the Ambassador brought this case
to the attention or the iinister for Foreign Affairs
and

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.98)
-14-
and informed him of the substance of the above report
from the American Consul at Taihoku. The Minister took
due note of the Ambessador's remarks.
The second trial of Mr. Lletsuo was held on June 28
in cemera and it was expected that the verdict would be
returned about July 3.
(e) Representations nsce by the Embassy during
the month of June.*
During the month of June representations were nade
by the Embessy to tie Japmese Foreign Office in the
cases of Mesdemes Richerdson and Lancester, Shenghai; and
vith regerd to interference of Japen ese redio stetion JDK
vith station KJy, San Francisco; end various routine
matters.
(r) Visit of General O'Ryan to Jepan.**
On June 12 the local press reyorted thet an American
economic nission to Jepan under the sponsorship of the
Japan Econonic Federetion of Tokyo would sncrtly sail
for Jepan eni subsequently vould visit ilanchukuo end
North China to study the military end economic situation.
The nission ves reno ted to include Liejor Generel John
F. O'Ryan end to econonic experts.
(g) Jep: nese press reports concerning (merican
intention to prohibit the export of certain
materials.***
. On June 4 the press sensationally feetured e report
from the United States vhich stated that the Counselor
of
*Denartment's telegrens: 275, June 19, 5 p.m.; 495, June
25, 9 p.m.
**mmbessy s telegrem: 444, June 12, 7 p.m. Depertment's
telegram: 199, June 13, 7 p.m.
***mmbessy's telegrems: 405, June 4, noon; 406, June 4, 1
p.m.; 461, June 18, 6 p.m. Department's telegrans: 179,
June 4, 1 p.m.; 184, June 7, 6 p.m.; 190, June 8, 8 p.m.;
204, June 15, & p.m.

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
of the Japanese Embessy in shington had called et the
State Departmont on June 1 to asoert:in the intention of
the United States Government concerning the prohibition of
exports of wer materials conprising an extensive field of
export goods. He wss said to have been informed by the
Stete Department suthorities thet the Unitec St:tes was
planning to prohibit the export of those materials indis-
penseble to t e industriel activities of a netion under
arms such as machinery, mechine tools, eirplene engines and
parts, propellors, et cetera. It was further reported that
the prohibition order would be promulgated as an administra-
tive decree upon the basis of the generel executive powers
of the President. Sev el newspepers resentfully inter-
preted this measure as one step neerer the imposition of
formal embargoes against Japan.
The press on June 1: reported thet Jepanese Ambas-
sador Horinouchi hed been ascured by high of icials in the
Stete Department that for the time being at least the
Anerican Government would not enforce an export embergo
for scrap iron and similer naterials.
(h) Japenese press reports concerning merican
public opinion vis-á-vis Japan.*
During the early part of June the vernaoular press
gave some attention to e reported favorable change in some
circles of American public opinion tovard Japen. Several
newspapers commented cuatiously but favorably on certain
recent fmeric:n nev'speper editoriels ená on the Under-
secretery of State's remarks concernin Japan at his press
conference on June 8. In generel the vernaculer press
attributed any ohange in the Americen attitude to European
evonts
*mmbassy's telegram: 442, June 12, 5 p.m.

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
events and urged that Japan teke no action until the
"real intentions of the Americen Government" had been
fully olarified. There wes observeble throughout the
month of June a continuance of the suspicion held by the
vernapular press concerning any reported softening of
American publio opinion toward Japen.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.*
1. Settlement of the Tientsin question.
The Embessy was informod e rly in June that the
Anglo-Japanese agreement concerning the settlement of
the Tientsin question contained e provision to tho effoct
thet the commoroial redio stetion operated by "certain
United States citizens" within tho British Concossion at
Tientsin would bo sllowed to operate for e period of two
months from the dato of the coming into force of the
egreoment. Tho Japenoso euthorities egreed to undortako
to uso their good officcs to ensure that tho fecilitios
providcd by the Chinoso tologrephio station would bc
oquel to thoso at prosont provided by the Amcricen station.
The British Imbassador on Juno 12 initialed along
with the Minister for Foreign Affairs the four agreements
relating to the solution of the Tientsin issue, namely,
police, silver, currency, end tho confidential rocord.
Theso agreoments wero scheduled to be signod by Sir
Robert Crsigie and Mr. Arite ono week later. The interval
wcs designed to εllow the militery cuthorities in Tientsin
sufficient time gredually to rolex the berrior controls
and to"seve feco". On Juno 18 Sir Robert Creigie informed
the
mbessy's telogrrms: 407, June 4, 2 p.m.; 419, June .
. June 18, 5 p.m.; 492, Juno 19, 6 p.m. Department's
telegremz 2s2, Juno 29, 5 p.m.

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-.
the Ambessodor thst it might be necossnry to postpone
the signing of tho notes owing to the fect thct tho
militery futhorities et Tientsin olcimed thet tho ber-
riers could not be romovod so repidly. This informetion
hed boen givon to tho British Imbassrdor by tho Vico
Ministor for Foreign Affeirs, who agrood to do his
bost to secure e romovcl of the difficulties. Tho notes
were signed, however, on Juno l9 but the work on the ro-
moval of the berriccdes which hed beon proceeding during
the past week, it wcs said, could not be comploted until
6 p.m. the following day. The electric wire brrrier wrs
to be romovod grcduelly. The signing of theso groements
climexed more thon one yecr's pstient negotictions by
tho Br,tish !o-ssador and it wes bolieved thet ho had
achieved as favoreble a settlament es possible in view of
prevoiling conditions.
Japrneso demends for coss: tion of trensporte-
tion of militery supplies to Chungking.*
On June 24 tio ovonine verneculer nowspepors re-
portod that tho Vico Minister for Forcign 'ffairs had
celled tho British Ambasscdor to his officiel rosidonco
and hed dolivored a "strict wcrning" from the Jepenoso
Govurnment concorning the prohibition of the shipment of
all matorials "of assistince to tho Chicng rogime from
British torritory at Hong Kong or over tho Burma-Mandaloy-
Yunnan road". The British Eabassy informed us on the samo
dey thct c formal noto wes recoivod end thct wo would be
kopt fully informod of tho dovelopmonts. The Embessy
lecrned lator thct tho Vico Minister in prosonting this
noto hed said in reply to the British Imbasscdor's inquiry
that
*mabessy's telegrrms: 490, June 24, 9 p.m.; 491, June 24,
10 p.m.; 496, June 26, noon.

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.95)
-18
inquiry thet the note wrs not based upon rule of in-
ternstionel lew but wcs to be regarded cs c friendly
communiortion designed to obtcin British cooperotion
in a metter soriously cffecting inglo-J-prnese rela-
tions. The Vice Minister wont on to sry th t the
present st-te of public opinion in Jrp n coulc hrrdly
be expectod to viow with oqu-nimity tho supplying of
lerge stocks of munitions facilit ting continuec ro-
sistrnce gainst Jepan. Tho British /nbessrdor grood
to trrnsmit the Japonoso noto to his Govornmont nd
tho Vioo Ministor ,t tho samo tino roquostcd an oarly
reply not only to this quostion but clso to tho quostion
of tho withareviel of llioc troops fron Sh nghci. Tho
Jop ncso noto to the British Governmont st tod intor
clic the roquost th-t the British Govornmont "urgontly givo
offoct to mo suros necossrry to putting  stop to the
tronsport tion vis Burnm not only of rms nd rmunition
but rlso of tr-nsportrtion supplics such rs fucl, ospocirl-
ly grsoline, trucks, nd rrilw-y matoricls". Folloving
the h nding of this noto to the British fabussader the
Vico Minister for Foroign Aff irs mrdo n orrl communica-
tion which ho charrcterizod ns "off tho rocord" nd vhich
wos couchod in strong lngurge, urging Groct Brit-in to
stop prrotiorlly cll trrffio ovor tho Burme routo nd
supplios going by way of Hong Kong through Wonohow,
Fooohow, Ningp? "na othor districts clong tho China coasts.
Tho Jepenoso roquostod "oonoroto ovidonco" thet such
treffio hed boon stoppod end in explanction of this
phrese suggostod thct tho Japenoso Consul Goneral ct
Rongoon cnd his stefr bo givon fcoilitios to srtisfy
thomsalvos thet c stop hcd boon put to tho trrnsit of
ams

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.97)
-19-
arms et cetera to Chine. In reply the British fmbas-
sador stated thet Burma wes ecting fully within its
rights end that the British were then throughout the
Jepanese press being subjected to threats which pre-
judiced the possibility of discussions in e friendly
atmosphere, but that he would transnit the Jepenese
"friendly suggestion" to the British Government. Sir
Robert Creigie went on to point out unofficially that
the amount of traffic over these various routes was
very small ena thet in his opinion the Jepanese were
meking "a mountain out of a nolehill".
Up to the end of June the British had made no roply
to these Jepanese representations.
3. British protest egainst Chungking bombings.*
On June 7 the Eritish Ambessador emphatically pro-
tested to the Minister for Foreign Affairs ageinst a
recommendetion by the Jep nese nilit ry ruthorities
that the British evecuate the building of their Consulate
General et Chungking.
(b) Soviet Russia.**
It wes announoed in the vernacular press on June 1l
that Japan and the Soviet Union had reached an under-
standing regarding the demarcation of the Manohukuo -
Outer Liongolia border in the Nomonhan area on June 9. A
statement reportedly issued by the Foreign Ofrice said
that the agreement was reached through mutual conces-
sions end corpromise. The Imbassy was informed by the
Foreign Ofrice that the agreement hed merely been ini-
tialed by the Commissar for Foreign Affairs and the
Japanese
basay's telegrame: 456, June 11, 7 p.m.; 456, Jume
n. p.

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
-20-
Japenese Ambassador at Moscow and that it would be
referred to the Manchurien end ongolian Governments
for their epproval. It wes expected that this would
offer no difficulties. The Emb ssy's infornent in the
Foreign Office added that the Soviet Union had been
adamant in insisting upon the settling of this border
issue before taking up other outstanding problems bjtween
Japan and Russia such as the conclusion of e long-term
fishing agreement and Russian interference with Jepenese
interests in south Saghalien.
The Jepanese press, while expressing pleasure over
this agreement, emphasized the fact that there remained
many problems in the relations between the tvo countries.
(o) Netherlands East Indies.*
On June 8 the Ambessedor obtained through a strictly
confidential source information concerning the Netherlands
Governnent's reply to the Jepanese proposals relating to
trede between Japan and the Netherlands East Incios. The
reply was lengthy end dealt vith e greet variety of ques-
tions, including censorship, propeganda, travel, and
specific problems in the international trede between the
two countries. The Netherlands Government agreed with
the Japanese desire for the meintenance of the status
guo of the Netherlands Indies and expressed its ovm de-
termination that the status guo should be maintained. The
importance of effecting a balance of trade between the
Netherlands Indies and Japan was emphasized. The Netherlands
Indies Government undertook to refrain from taking measures
whioh would hinder the export of thirteen commodities
peoirioally
Mabesay's telegrams: 426, June 8, 11 a.m.; 439, Jung 12,
m; 453, June 15, 7 p.m.; 464, June 18, 9 p.m.; 508
o m8, è p.m.; 516, June 29, noon.

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
-21
specifically desired by Japen. These commodities were:
bauxite, ohrome iron ore, nichel ore, tin and tin ore,
rummer, quinquina bark, castor beans, petroleum, salt,
sorep iron, molybdenum, wolfran, end mangenese.
On June 28, the Japanese Government replied to the
Netherlands note briefly outlined above. The Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs exprossed gretification of
tho rosponse of the Netherlands to the various Japenese
propositions cnd said thet such rosponse warranted the
hope on the part of the Japenese Government that nego-
tiations would lead to e mutuclly satisfectory arrenge-
ment and thet acoordingly tho Jepenese Govornment would
ennounce setisfectory progress in the nogotistions. At
the semo intorviev the Vice Ministor put forvard egein a
proposcl which ho hed hintod at on June 18, that the Japa-
nese Ministor et The H gue be sent to Batevic to carry
on the importrnt nogoti:tions nd th-t ho maintain his
personal rank of Ministor. The Netherlends Minister in-
formed tho Foreign Offico that tho Indios Governmont
could not reccive a ropresontctive in tho oepecity of
Japenese Ministar to Tho Hcgue. Tho scme evoning tha
Foreign Office raleesed to the pross for publication the
following day a stetamont concorning Jepenoso-Nothorlands
relations. This statemont essorted that Japen was deeply
interested in the meintenenco end further promotion of
olose trade relations vith the Notherlends Indies cnd
thet an amioablo settlement of tho quostion wcs nocessary.
It wont on to sny thrt the Notherlands Government hed
agreed not to trke cny measures whioh would prevent com-
modities desired by Jepon from being exported. Jrpen,
however, it wes esserted, desired the Netherlends Indies
Government

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.97)
-22-
Government "activoly to tako appropriato measures in
order to assuro definitoly oxportation of tho dcsirod
quantities of the roquirod goods" end to sottlo promptly
questions regarding Jepenoso ontorprisos ara ontry of
Jepanoso.
(d) France end Fronch Incochina.*
Information was roccived on Junc 19 thct thc Fronch
Ambassador would on that day sign e stetonent idonticel
with thct signed by tho British Imbessador end the Miister
for Foreign Aff iis on Jul 22, 1939, and that on the
following day ho would sign memorunde identical with those
signed by tho British Imbcssedor for the sottlsmont of the
diffioultios ct Tientsin. Tho Fronch Anb ssador ozpres-
sod tho bolicf thet ellogod difficultics concerning tho
ronovel of tho barriors would bo solvod vithout unnccos-
sery doley.
During tho nonth of Juno tho vornaculer press gevo
considoreblo ettontion to tho ellogetions thet mctoriels
essisting thc Chicng Kci-shok Govornmont wero boing trens-
portod through Fronch Incochine. On Juno 18 tho French
Ambassador informed Mr. Grow thet the Govornor Gonoral
of Fronch Indochine hed on his own initiativo prohibited
the oxport into Chine of oil, subject to confirmetion by
tho Frcnoh Government. On Juno 19 thore wes & groct doal
of comment in tho verneculer press strcssing Jepen's pro-
found concern rogeraing Fronch Indoohina. This concorn,
1t
*Embrasy's tolegrems: 454, Juno 17, 1 p.n.; 459, June 18,
4 p.m.; 465, June 18, 11 p.m.; 467, June 19, 1 p.m.; 468,
June 19, 3 p.m.; 475, June 19, micnight; 479, Juno 20,
1 p.m.; 481, Juno 20, midnight; 493, Juno 25, 7 p.m.; 502,
June 27, 2 p.m.

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.95)
-23-
it wes roportod, rosulted from tho oxtromely close geo-
grephiocl nd ocononic relctions botwoen Jepen and Frenoh
Indochinc, es well es from concorn cnd populer indignc-
tion in Jcpen rosulting fron tho "hostilo chcrector" of
Fronoh Indochinc in assisting tho Chicng Kai-shok Govorn-
mont. It was roported thet the quostion of the disposi-
tion of French Indochine wcs ε subjoct of discussion
cmong Jcpenoso officicls, anc tho MIy/ko cssertod thet
tho Gormen Governnent through its Anbesscdor at Tokyo
hcd submittod c four-point propos:1 to the Jrpenoso
Government cs follows: "(1) Gorneny to rocognizo moesures
by Japen vith regord to Fronch colonies in the Frr East;
(2) Joprn nd Gornrny to consult on nntters relating to
British colonios; (3) Jrpen nc Germany to consult con-
cerning tho estrblishmont of nov ordors in tho Wostern
rnd Erstorn ocerns cnd on tho b-sis of such consults-
tions to cct in concort; (4) for the purposo of building
© now world order J-pen, Gormany, n: It-ly to ostrblish
intimeto licison."
(0) Thrilrna.*
Tho Foroign Offica nnouncod on Juno 12 thet a troaty
was signod with Thailcnd cont ining tho following pro-
visions: "(c) Mutuel rospoct for tho torritory of the
other; (b) oxch-nge of inform-tion on mcttors of mutuel
interost; (o) occh prrty to rofrrin fron cssisting cny
nction at wer with tho othor perty."
(r) Chinc.**
Militery operctions in Contrel China woro oonoentrcted
in
*Zmbcssy's telegrrm 443, June 12, 6 P.n.
*rropered with the essistenoe of the Militery Ittache's
ofrice.

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
-24
in the gonorcl crec north cnd wost of Honkow end cbout
tho first of Juno tho Jcp nose foroos crossod tho Hen
Rivor on & widc front cnd convorged on Ichang, which
city foll into tho hrnds of the Jep noso olevon drys
ftor tho boginning of tho comp ign. hilo tho Jepe-
nose witharow fron sone of tho territory thoy hnd
trrversod in this menouver, thoy continuod to hold the
city of Ichong nd the ronds botwcon Ich-ng nd Hcnkow
throughout tho nonth of Juno.
There wero only ninor militry oporstions in North
Chine.
In South Chinr for tho groctor part of the month of
June thoro wero lmost no roports of nilit ry operctions,
but 1rto in tho month the Jop noso pocupiod tho crons
opposito tho Kowloon bordor nc move southwest from
Nanning to occupy points long tho Fronch Incochina bordor.
The Jap noso rir forcos continucd intonsive bombing
of Chungking ne othor points in Szochuan Provinoo through
tho month of Juno.
Nogotictions with tho Weng Ching-woi rogine woro
continuod t Nrnking but no rosults were nnounood.
III. INTERN/L FOLITIC:L /FFAIRS.*
Tho collepso of Fr noo end tho ontrenoo of Itcly
into tho wer in Europo brought fer-roaohing roporous-
sions in Japan. Thore was noticod a swing of tho verna-
cular press fron objootiv roporting to en obvious
emphesis on dospetohos aneneting fron Gorman souroos.
1t
*Imbassy's tologrcms: 486, Juno 23, 6 p.n.; 489, Juno 24,
7 p.m.; 494, June 25, 8 p.m.; 501, June 26, 5 p.m.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
-25-
It the semo time thoro eppeared articlos criticel of
tho foroign policy of tho Cabinet enc openly cdvoccting
strons measuros end oloso associations with tho totali-
terian powors. is en oxamplc, referonce mey be mede to
an article eppearing in tho ASiHI on Juno 23 stating thet
Jepan's policy towcrds the Europoan wer has undorgono
delioato and importent dovolopnonts ecconpenying tho
overwhelming Germen victory, tho cntry of Itely into tho
war, anc tho capitulation of France. Tho AS.HI assertod
that Jepan's diplonetic policy, which wes eimed et dos-
troying tho status quo, shoulc naturelly tond to conoort
with Germeny's policy. It wes seic thrt en rajustment
of tho mlctions botwoon tho United Stetos nd Jepen would
from this st napoint be possiblo only in so fer as such
edjustmont would not conflict with tho good relations
emong Jepan, Gornony, enc Itcly. It was scic that Jepen's
diplomecy wcs to becono "ggrossive diplonccy".
It bcorme obvious in the lattor part of June that
tho Cabinat would hrvo grert difficulty in riding out the
storn in domostic politics brought on lergoly by Buropoan
devolopmont. Tho first concroto ovidenco of tho politi-
ccl crisis wes the rosign:tion of Prince Konoyo &s
prosifent of the Privy Council on June 24. On June 26
the Wer Minister in on cdcross beforo all officers of tho
Wer Ministry roportedly urgod thct Jepan not miss the
"goldon opportunity" to inplemont her policies, occcsionod
by presont world conditions. 1ll of tho vorncculer news-
pepers of Juno 26 disoussed Jepen's high diplomotio polioy
cs roportecly docided upon at ε Cabinot meeting tho
provious day. It w:s seic thrt e fornel stetement would
bo made shortly by the Government. The keynoto of
Jepan's diploncoy ramrined the settlement of the 'China
imsident" but it wrs reported that Jcpen might cvcil
1sself

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.97)
-86-
1tself of present fcvorcble internctionel conditions to
settlo the incident cnd to esteblish firmly Jrpan's
position rs thc "stebilizing forco of Brst /ain". It
wcs scid thrt Jrpon's diplomstic polioy would be ontirely
solf-rolirnt cnd independent, th t it cic not envisage
depfrture from friondly rolctions with Grort Britrin cnd
the United Statos nor acpondonce upon or moro intimcto
essociction with Gormeny cnd Italy. Somo articlos dos-
cribod tho policy cs tho "Monroo Doctrine of E st Lsia"
but ot.ors continuod to urgo closor roletions with
Gormany end Italy. In the following deys the vorneculer
press continued to givo proninence to the coming stato-
mont of Japen's foroign policy. 1. typiccl crticlo ep-
pearing on June 28 roportod that tho Govornmont's stcto-
mont hed been propered by tho Diroctor of tho Informction
Burocu of the Foreign Offico cnd in outlino statod as
follows: "(a) To dostroy the strtus guo of tho prosont
worl& situction is n im comnon to J pen, Gormeny end
Itcly; (b) Jepan cgroos ontirely with tho brecking down
of tho old systom end ths redistributions of torritories
end resources; (c) Jepan tho stebilizing forco of Eest
hsie is firmly dotorminod to eliminato interferonoe by
eny third country in Pecifio croes." On tho following
dey tho press reported thet at on onergoncy noeting of
the Four-Minister conference concorning Jepan's doclara-
tion of polioy ocllod on tho provious oftornoon, uncnimi-
ty of opinion had boen lacking and it was docided thet
no offioiel doclcretion of policy would be issuod, but
thet the Minister for Foreign iffairs would cdäross the
nction ovor tho radio on the subjeot of "Jepan's Foreign
Relctions in the prosent situction". This cddress wes
brondocst on June 29. In this rrdio speoch, whioh wcs

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.97)
-27-
e far cry from the drestic meesures previously suggested in
the press, the Minister for Foreign Aff irs suggested that
the world be dividod into largo sphores of influonco of which
the Fir Best, inoluding tho South Soes Ial nds, would be one
under the stabilizing influonce of J pan.
Tho  onth of June closed with the Caoi ot endangered
and the politioal turmoil which hed beon apperent to the
Enbassy at the boginning of the month at its hoight.
IV.COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FIN NCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GENER/L ECONOMIC /NL FIN NCI/L CONDITIONS.*
Jepenese exonomic end finencial circles wore partiouler-
ly edversely effectod during tho month of Juno by the en-
trance of Itely into tho war in Europo ond considorablo pos-
simism wes displeyou ovor the probable completo loss of trcdo
with Italy, North Africs, εnd Noer Eastorn countrics. It wes
expocted thet theso lossos woula further dcpross Japcnoso
foroign trede end would to somo oxtcnt intorforo vith domostio
manufecturing because of the loss of cert. in raw metorials
such as industrial srlt.  focling of gonorcl ccution was
noticed in industricl nd fincncial cirolcs. This ceution
could bo cttributed to various ccusos such s somo cppro-
honsion concorning the possibility thrt Jap'n might becomo
involvoc with third powors ovor tho question of Fronoh Indo-
china, tho porsistent rumors onå roports conoornin tho pro-
Jootod ost-blishmont of r "now politio-1 structuro", and
tho gonerel politiorl turmoil in Jopen curing the month.
Jrprnoso industriclists :nd fin-noicrs obviously oxpectod
furthor strongthening of govornmontel control ovor cll com-
moroiel, finenoirl nd industriel cotivitios.
Tho now laws and roguletions cffocting commeroo and
industry
4ci ittcohb.

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
-28-
8
1
Industry during the month of June were largely con-
cerned with standard prices for a great veriety of com-
modities. There was considerable disoussion in the press
of the plans of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry
to strenghthen its control of the importation and dis-
tribution of certein raw msterials required by oxport
industrios. In the financial market it is significant
to note thet the credit expansion which had been great
during the early months of 1940 wes epparently checked
agcin during tho month of June es it had becn during
May. There was ε decided improvoment in the absorption
of governnent bonds of which new issues to the velue of
500,000,O00 Yon vwero flocted during June. Bank noto
issuo increased sharply during the month vherecs ell
typos of stocks declincd in prico. In gonorel the cost
of living continuod to rise.
Foreign trede figures:
Prelinincry foroign trcdo roturns for the Empire
for June plecc oxports et Yon 343,653,000 cnd inports
et Yen 269,448,000. Compcred with the provious month,
exports slurped approximetely 15.0% in v-lue whilo
imports fell off by l0.3%; howover, compared with the
corresponding period of lcst yecr, geins of 15.9% end
1.7% respectivoly were rogistered. The excoss imports
fron foroign currency countries renained precticclly
unohanged during the wonth -- emounting to Yen 63,671,000
end brincing the tot:l non yen-bloo excess imports to
Yen 503,085,000 for the first helf of 1940, which wes
Yen 75,640,000 greeter thcn the import excess during the
first six months of 1939. Totcl shipments to all countrios
were

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
-29-
were velued et Yen 2,018,980,000 during the first six
months of 1940, en increaso of 24.9% over lest yeer.
Imports recched Yen 1,856,729,000, ε 16.7% gein over the
Jenuary-June 1939 period.
VII. :CTIVITIES OF. LERIC N COMMERCIL INTERESTS.
Noti ing to roport.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX. L'BOR.
Nothing to roport.
X MISCELL/NEOUS.
Not:ing to roport.

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
a
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
JUNE
1940
NumberDate
Subject
397 June 1, 11 a.m. Proposed oil shipments.
398 June 1, 7 p.m.
Representations with regard to Chungking
bombing.
399 June 2, 6 p.m.
Representations with regard to Chungking
bombing.
400 June 3, noon
Strictly confidential for the Secretary.
Political situation.
401 June 3, 10 p.m. Japanese ship movements.
402 June 4, 9 a.m.
Sentence of Interpreter Matsuo.
403 June 4. 10 a.m. Radio interference by station JDK
404 June 4, 11 a.m.
Terrorist activities in Shanghai -
proposed representations.
405 June 4, noon
Japanese press reports on proposed pro-
hibition of exports of war materials from
the United States.
406 June 4, 1 p.m.
Proposed restriction of exports of war
materials.
407 June 4, 2 p.m.
Tientsin question.
408 June 4, 3 p.m.
Tientsin question.
409 June 4, 4 p.m.
Tientsin question.
410 June 4, 5 p.m.
Tientsin question.
411 June 4, 6 p.m.
Tientsin question.
412 June 4, 7 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with a
prominent Japanese.
413 June 4, 8 p.m.
Press reports of the remarks of Foreign
Minister at Pacifio Society.
414 June 4, 9 p.m.
Statement of Premier Yonai to the press.
415 June 4, 10 p.m. Arrest of Matsuo.
416 June 4, midnight Requisition for funds.

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No. Date
Subject
417 June 5, 11 a.m.
Comment on the Foreign Minister's speech
before the Pacific Society.
418 June 6, 11 a.m.
Proposed release to the press of telegran
from the Department relating to con-
servation of resources.
419 June 6, 6 p.m.
Tientsin question.
420 June 6, 8 p.m.
Death of Frince Tokugawa.
421. June 6, 7 p.m.
Press rumor of transfer of the French
Concession, Shanghai, to the United Stater
422 June 7, noon
Request for dunlicate copy of instruction
no. 1907, March 2, 1940.
423 June 7, 5 p.m.
German-Japanese relations.
424 June 7, 6 p.m.
British representations - Chungking
bombing.
425 June 7, 7 p.m.
Detention of Matsuo.
426 June 8, 11 a.m. Japanese-Netherlands relations.
427 June 10, noon
Request for additional compensation for
Consul Slavens.
428 June 10, 5 p.m.
Japanese ship movements.
429 June 10, 6 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.
430 June 10, 7 p.m.
Cipher tables.
431 June 10, 8 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.
432 June 10, midnight Matsuo case - representations to the
Foreign Office.
433 June 11, 9 a.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.
434 June 11, 6 p.m. Request for statements issued to the
press in Washington to be transmitted to
Tokyo.
435 June 11, 7 p.n.
Demarcation of Manchukuo-Outer Mongolia
border.

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
Number
Date
Subject
436 June 11, 8 p.m. Soviet-Japanese agreement concerning
delimitation of Manchurian-Outer Mongolian
border.
437 June 11, 6 p.m.
Japanese request for withdrawd of troops
from China.
438 June 1l, 10 p.m. Reply of the Foreign Cffice to informal
representations regarding withdrawal of
foreign troops from Shanghai.
439 June 12, noon
Japan-Netherlands East Indies.
440 June 12, 3 p.m. Britieh, French, and Italian governments -
request for reply to representations
regarding withdrawal of troops from
Shanghai.
441 June 12, 4 p.m. Press comment on entry of Italy in the war.
442 June 12, 5 p.m. Press comment - American-Japanese relations
443 June 12, 6 p.m. Japan-Siam treaty signed.
444 June 12, 7 p.m. Visit of Major General John F. O'Ryan.
445 June 12, 8 p.m. Tientsin issue.
446 June 12, 9 p.m. Initialling of Tientsin agreement.
447 June 12, 10 p.m. Informal statement of the Foreign
Minister.
 448 June 12, 11 p.m. Oral statement of the Foreign Minister.
449 June 14, 6 p.m. Visa instruction.
450 June 14, 7 p.m. Bombing of Chungking - note from the
Foreign Office.
451 June 14, 8 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.
452 June 15, 6 p.m. Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Vice Minister.
453 June 15, 7 p.m.
Japanese protest to the Netherlands
Minister regarding alleged firing upon
a Japanese fishing vessel.

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
KumberDate
Subject
454 Juna 17, 1 p.m.
Press comment on rumors of a secret treat:
between the United States and Great Britai
455 June 17, 6 p.m.
Reported concentration of Japanese militar.
forces in Hainan, Formosa and Kyushu.
456 June 18, noon
Prince Tokugawa - proposed broadcast.
457 June 18, 2 p.m.
Request for expedition of stationery
supplies.
458 June 18, 3 p.m.
Visas for training ship TAISEI !ARU.
459 June 18, 4 p.m.
Press comment on French capitulation and
French Indo China.
460 June 18, 5 p.m. Tientsin agreement.
461 June 18, 6 p.m.
Press comment on possible embargo on sorap
iron and steel to Japan.
462 June 18, 7 p.n. Detention of Matsuo.
463 June 18, 8 p.m.
Note from the Foreign Office regarding
bombing of Chungking.
464 June 18, 9 p.m. Japan-Netherlands Indies.
465 June 19, 11 p.m. Prohibition by Governor General of French
Indo China of exports into China of oil.
466 June 19, 12 noon Request for ruling on precedence.
467 June 19, 1 p.m. Tientsin question - Frenoh signature.
468 June 19, 3 p.m.
Press comment on disposition of Frenoh
Indo-China.
469 June 19, 4 p.m.
Representations regarding rumors
International Settlement and French Con-
cession at Shanghai.
470 June 19, 5 p..
3tatement of Japanese General Staff member
to British Military Attaché.
471 June 19, 6 p.m. Appointment with the Foreign Minister.
472 June 19, 6 p.m. Tientsin question - agreement signed.
473 June 19, 7 p.m.
Conversation of the British Ambassador
and the Foreign Minister.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
NumberDate
Subject
474 June 19, 9 p.m.
Conversation of the Anbassador with the
Foreign Minister.
475 June 19, midnight Japanese interest in Indo-China - represe.
tations to Berlin and Rome.
476 June 20, 10 a.m. Detention of  atsuo - representations.
477 June 20, 11 a.m. Situation in Shanghai - representations.
478 June 20, noon
Press comment on American-Japanese
relations.
479 June 20, 1 p.m.
Press comment on interview of French
Ambassador with Foreign Minister;
Japanese demands.
480 June 20, 11 p.m.
Incident created by Count Macchi di
Cellere.
481 June 20, midnight Japanese requests to French Ambassador
with regard to French Indo China.
482 June 21, 2 p.m.
Requisition for funds.
483 June 22, noon
Detention of Matsuo.
484 June 23, 2 p.n.
Request for appointment with the Foreign
Minister.
485 June 23, 5 p.m.
Press comment on Japan's policy toward
European war.
486 June 23, 6 p.m.
Press comment on resignation of Konoe as
President of the Privy Council.
V 487 June 23, 2 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.
488 June 24
Claim of Bond Brothers against Khoa Sangyc
Kaisha.
489 June 24, 7 p.m.
Resignation of Prince Konoye as President
of the Privy Council.
490 June 24, 9 p.m.
Press report of interview between the
British Ambassador and the Vice Minister
regarding Jananese demands.

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
Number Date
Subject
491 June 24, 10 p.m.
Japanese "advice" to the British
Government; paraphrases of two telegram
to London.
492 June 25, 11 a.m.
Visit of the U.S.S. GOLD STAR.
493 June 25, 7 p.m.
Despatch of a portion of the South Chine
Fleet to Haiphong.
494 June 25, 8 p.m.
Comment on movements of Prince Konoye.
495 June 25, 9 p.m.
Mesdames Richardson and Lancaster -
representations.
496 June 26, noon
Telegram of the British Ambassador to th
Foreign Office in London regarding
oral communication of the Vice inister.
497 June 26, 1 p.m.
Diplomatic visa to Vrs. Meiko Kuroda.
498 June 26, 2 p.m.
Arrangements between foreign forces in
Concessions in China communicated to
Foreign Office.
499 June 26, 3 p.m.
Requisition for funds.
500 June 26, 4 p.m.
Press comment on Japan's diplomatic
polioy.
501 June 26, 5 p.m.
Statement of the ar Minister.
502 June 27, 2 p.m.
Replacement of Governor General Catroux
of Indo-China by Admiral Decoux.
503 June 27, 6 p.m.
Cotton report.
504 June 26, 11 a.m.
Request for information concerning
metals and ores; difficulty of procuring
in Japan.
505 June 28
Proposed broadcast - Prince Tokugawa.
506 June 28, 4 p.m.
Press report of Japan's proposed foreign
policy.
507 June 28, 5 p.m.
Statement of the Prime Minister.
508 June 28, 8 p.m.
Janan-Netherlands relations.
v 509 June 28, 10 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
NumberDate
Subject
510 June 28, 11 p.m.
Conversation of the Ambassador with the
Foreign Minister.
V 511 June 28, midnight
Conversation of the Ambassador with
the Foreign Minister.
 512 June 29, 1 a.m.
Oral statement of the Foreign Minister.
513 June 29, 9 a.m.
Relations between Great Britain and
the United States.
514 June 29, 10 a.m.
Detention of Matsuo.
515 June 29, 11 a.m.
Correotion in text of statement trans-
mitted in telegram no. 512, June 29,1 a.
516 June 29, noon
Press release of the Foreign Office
with regard to the Netherlands Indies.
517 June 29, 2 p.m.
Combined Government quarters report.
518 June 29, 5 p.m.
Emergency meeting of the four ministers
conference; text of the Foreign
Minister's radio address.

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
June 1940
No.
Date
Subject
4738
June 1
Tranamitting clipping from the Japan
Advertiser of LMay 25, 1940, ent1tled
"U.S. Attitude held same about Japan".
4739
June 3
Tranamitting newspaper item entitled
"Japanese hits American note of Super-
iority" from The Japan Advertiser of
May 26, 1940.
4740
June 3
American Property Losses resulting from
Sino-Japanese hostilities, 1937-1940:
American Catholic Mission, Linchwan,
Kiangsi.
4741
June 3
Inconveniences and delays suffered by
American citizens and goods at Tientsin
barriers.
4742
June 3
Pan-Paciric Trading Company - Aotivities
of Mr. illiam F. Lyte.
4743
June 3
Diplomatic visa report.
4744
June 3
Information desired by the U.S. Liaritime
Commission.
4745
June 3
Threatened Jepanese attack upon Stendard-
Vacuum Oil Company and Texas Company
Instellations at Chungking.
4746
June 3
Application of Japanese Foreign Exchenge
Control Regulations to American travelers
in Japan.
4747
June 4
Transmitting memorandum of conversation
between the Americen Ambassador and the
Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs
on April 26, 1940.
4748
June 4
Interference by Japanese radio station
JND
4749
June 4
Interference by Japanese station JDK
4750
June 4
Restrictions on travel of third power
nationals in China: Port of Swatow.
4751
June 5
Opening of American Orficial Mail by
Japanese Post Ofrioes.
4752
June 5
Inconvenience caused Americans at
Tientsin barriers.
4958
June 5
Transmitting newspeper article entitled
"No Good for Japan Seen if Nazis Win"
from the Japan Advertiser of June 2, 1940.

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4754
June 6
Difficulties encountered by British
shipping in the use of the port of
Tsingtao.
4755
June 6
Subst:nce of a telegrem received by
the British mbassy from Batavia.
4756
June 6
Transportation of Americans to Kiukiang
and Hankow.
4757
June 7
Bolivian Ore Shipments to Japan and
smelting facilities in Japan and dan-
chukuo.
4758
June 7
Manufacture of Synthetic Fetroleum.
4759
June 7
Tientsin Negotiations.
4760
June 8
Catholio Liission Hospital, Chihkiang,
Hunan.
4761
June 8
Alleged establishment of Joint Trading
Corporation in China between Jardine,
Matheson and Company and various Japa-
nese interests.
4762
June 8
Tranamitting clipping: Speech given by
Foreign Minister, Mr. Arita, before
Peciric Association, June 3, 1940.
4763
June 8
Transmitting clipping: Press report of
interview with Premier Yonai - Tokyo
Nichi Nichi, June 5, 1940.
4764
June 8
Yen-linked currency problems.
4765
June 10
Home Leave granted to Miss Mitsuko
Hirata.
4766
June 10
Diplomatio Visa Report.
4767
June 11
Proposed changes in the Japanese Civil
Service.
4768
June 10
Transmitting the text of the reply of
the Netherlands Government to the Japa-
nese Government's proposals of February
2, 1940, and of Liay 18, and 20, 1940.
4769
June 11
Transmitting copy of mbassy aoknowledge-
ment of letter from Lir. E. H. Zaugg,
Dean of North Japan College, Minami Rok-
kenoho, Sendai, addressed to the Seo-
retary of State on April 10, 1940.
4990
June 15
Damage to property of the American
Church Wission, Kingtehohen, Kiangsi
Province, as a result of a Japanese
bombing raßa.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
4771
June 13
Returning letters rogatory: Case of
Sonken-Galambe Corporation et al versus
Atohinson, Topeka and Santa Fe Railvay
Company et al.
4772
June 14
Death of Prince Jyesato Tokugawc.
4775
June 14
Disposition of old safes.
4774
June 14
Settlement of accounts of lir. Satoru
Sugimura former translator, American
Imbassy, Tokyo.
4775
June 15
Seventh Cuarter Examination of Lr.
Ralph J. Blake.
4776
June 15
First uarter examination of r. David
T. Ray.
4777
June 17
Proposed arrangements for meteorolo-
gical observations by Japanese Govern-
ment in Pacific Area.
4778
June 17
Appointment of Japanese ship inspectors
under Panama Cteel regulations.
4779
June 17
Books for the mbassy's library.
4780
June 17
Bombing by Japenese planes of Americen
Church Mission at Nanling.
4781
June 17
Terroristio Aotivities in the Interna-
tional Settlement, Shanghai.
4782
June 19
Transmitting newspaper clipping from
The J pan fdvertiser of June 15, 1940,
entitled "Improved Ties Seen Between
U.S., Japan".
4783
June 19
Tientsin Negotiations.
4784
June 19
Tranamitting memorandum of conversa-
tion between the A:erican Aibassador
and the Japanese Liinister for Foreign
Affairs on June 10, 1940.
4785
June 19
Ratification by Japan of Postal Cou-
vention.
4786
June 19
Transportation of Amerioans to Kiukiang
and Hankow.
4787
June 19
British representations regarding set-
tlement of olaims by British subjects
against Jupanese authorities arising
out of the hostilities in China.
4708
June 20
Tranmitting item in regard to Japanese
imports of sorap iron.

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
4789
June 20
International Service of Ise Observa-
tion and Ioe Petrol in the North
Atlantic Coean for the year j39.
4790
June 20
Bolivian Ore shipments to Jayan ard
molting facilities in Japan eni Jen-
chukuo.
4791
June 80
Returning executed letters rogatory in
the case of Boston Iron and Metel Com-
pany versus Villian Rosentha?.
4792
June 20
Transmitting text of address made by
the Ambessador to the greduating class
of the Americen School, Toxyo, June 18,
1940.
4793
June 20
Reentry into Japan of Japanese subjects.
4794
June 20
Tientsin negotiations.
4795
June 20
Bombing of Chungking.
4796
June 20
Informal representations concerning
rumors in regard to the International
Settlement and Frenoh Conoession at
Shanghai.
4797
June 20
British representations concerning the
bombing of British property in Chungking.
4798
June 21
Census of Japanese residents in China.
4799
June 21
Delay in submission of Japan lionthly
Trade Report.
4800
June 21
Transmitting memorendum of conversa-
tion between the Americen Ambassador
and the Japanese Winister for Foreign
Affairs on June 19, 1940.
4801
June 21
fect of European war on Japen's
foreign trade.
480s
June 22
Diplomatic visa report.
4805
June 25
Diplomatio visas issued to Mrs. Meiko
Kuroda and Miss Taka Nakategawa.
4804
June 26
Transmitting newspaper clipping entitled
"Changed feeling noted in America" from
The Japen Advertiser of June 22, 1940.
4805
June 26
Requests for trade lists from Consulate
General at Keijo originating in the
Bureau of Foreign and Do. estic Commeree.
June 29
Seventh Quarter examination of Ir. J.
Dixon Edwards.
Diplomatic visa report.
Revision of the Japan-Memehakuo-Isuly Com-
mersial agreement.

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.93)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 5, 1940.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4959
SUBJECT: REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN JURING THE LONTH
OF JULY 1940.
Coly in FE
CONFIDENTIAL
No
STATE
04
irnd
894.00
2
REEVEO
OF
PH
DPARTMENT
25
EP
S
Heuorable
P
R
The Secretary of Stale,
Washington.
Sir:
52
ith reference to the Department': instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith
the Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for
the month of July 1940.
Respectfully yours,
L
Joseph C. Grew
Enolosure: Report lio. 166
800
IWS:gt
In sextuplicate to the Departrent.
F/FG
Copies to Embassies: Peiping, Chungking, loscow.
Copies to Consuletes General: Shanghai, Lukden, Harbin,
Seoul, Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates: Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki,
Negoye, Taihoku, Yokohema.
Copy to High Commissioner to the Philippine Islanus.
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
No:. 166
REPORT OF CO IDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE LIONTH
OF JULY 1940

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
AND
SUMMARY
Pages
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Grew-Arita Conversations.
1-4
(b) Grew-Llatsuoke Conversations.
4,5
(c) United States Marines - Japanese
Gendarmes Incident at Shanghai on
July 7.
5,7
(d) Comment in Japen on Secretary of
State Hull's statement, July 16.
Closing of the Burma route.
7,8
(e) Press Comment: Americen-Jspanese
Relations.
8-12
(f) Matsuo Cese and the arrest of three
Americans at Keelung.
12,13
(g) Reaction in Japen to the reported
inclusion of petroleum, petroleum
products and screp metal in the list
of commodities for licensed export.
13-16
II. RELATIONS ITH OTHR COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
1. Anglo-Japanese discussions con-
cerning prohibition of transport
of materials for the Chinese Govern-
ment at Chungking via Burma and
Hong Kong.
16-19
2. Arrests of British nationals by
Japanese gendarmes.
19,20
(b) Netherlends Fast Indies.
20-22
(c) France
7
1. French Indochina.
22
(a) China.
22.23
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.
23-27
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
27
v.

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
V. GOVERNI.INT FINANCE.
27
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL AND CONOLIC CONDITIONS.
27,28
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ALIRICAN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS.
28-30
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLNERCIAL INTERESTS.
30
IX. LABOR.
30
X. L.ISCELLANEOUS.
30

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) Grew-Arita Conversations.*
In continuance of the conversations begun in the month
of June, the Ambassador on July 1l agein called on Mr.
Arita, the Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mr. Grew
began his remarks with the preface that the comrunication
he was about to make was in his own opinion one of the most
important he had ever delivered to the Japanese Government.
He continued by stating that the American Government had
been giving cereful thought to the views expressed by the
Minister on June 12 and June 28 rospectively, end that the
American Government was gratified et the careful considera-
tion given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the views
expressed by the Ambassador on June 19. Mr. Grew spoko of
the concern of his Government with rogerd to the situetion
offered by the present war in Europe and pointed out thet
it wes oqually in Jepan's interest that thoro should bo
avorted eny extonsion of developmonts resulting from that
war which would bring disturbed conditions to Asietic end
Americen countrics end diminish tho freo movoment of tredo.
The Ambessedor went on to point out tho hoelthy nd advanta-
goous conmercial relationship botween Jepen end tho United
States and seid that this rolεtionship "could not thrive
undor an auterohical systom of oconomy". The Ambessedor
seid thet it would eppeer to tho /merican Governmont that
4
in the bost intorosts of Japan thct country should soek to
epply as broadly cs possiblo tho principle of oquality of
trede opportunity cnd should endecvor to roalizo the fullost
liboralization of tho principle of non-discrimination. It
wes eptly brought to tho Ministor's attention thct efforts
by
*Embassy's telogrems: 543, July 6, 10 c.m.; 558, July 11,
4 p.m.; 559, July 11, 6 p.m.; 566, July 11, midnight; 568,
July 12, 5 p.m. Embcssy's despctch No. 4844, July 12, 1940.
Departmont's tolegrrms: 243, July 4,3 p.m.; 246, July 6, 5 p.m.

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
by one nstion to romove nd restrict such principles with
regerd to & perticuler cror or crses would necesserily be
hermful to tho interests of the mejor trsding nations.
With perticuler reference to Jepon's policy towerd the
Netherlends Ecst Indics, Lir. Grew said that the United
States carries on importent trade relations with the Nether-
lends Indies end thet there ere substentiel Imerican enter-
prises loceted there. r. Grew emphesized thet Jepan end
the United States should cooperate to assure the msintenance
of the stetus guo of the Pecific possessions of belligerent
powers. Vith regard to the Linister's previous specific
suggestion that consideration be eiven to the question of
concluding, es e temporary meesure, a nodus vivendi between
the merican and Japenese Governnents, Lir. Grew stated that
obviously his Government would be gretified et the early
development of nanifestetions of an inplementation of the
Jepanese Government's declaretions that present restrictions
on foreign commerce in Chine ere of e temporery nature.
Mr. Grew referred to a portion of the oral statement
of the Minister on June 12 with regard to the question of
American assistence to Chieng Kei-shek and said that the
Americen Government, quite epart from the fact thet the
Chinese Government at Chungking is recognized by the
Government of t e United States as the Government of China,
desired with entire frenkness to express the opinion that
there would appeer to be no prospect of a united government
in China other than through recognition of the leedership
which enjoy the reel support of the vast najority of the
poople of China.
At the conolusion of his first oral remarks the Ambas-
sador stated that his Governnent had noted tie expressed
dosire

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
desire contained in the Minister's oral statement of June
12 that the American end Japanese Governnents act together
to contribute to 'orld peace ana had also noted the ideal
expressed by the Linister in his radio address of June 29
that Japan constitutes the stebilizing force in ast Asia.
The American Government, iIr. Grew said: would view with
sympathy policies and nethods giving order, justice, and
stability in eny area of the world provided those policies
and methods were carried out by peaceful meens and with due
regard for the interests anc rights f all involved.
The mbassador told the inister for Foreien Affairs
that the Americen Government was of the opinion that a
clarification b the Japanese Governnent at this time of
its attituse concerning future commerciel policy vould, if
competible ith the view of the United States Governnent,
accelerate the present conversations between the Ambassador
end the linister. Iir. Grew went on to say that the United
States Government believes thst Jepan must soon come to a
decision on two fundamental questions: (1) Mould Japan
attempt to exploit ana secure for its own utilization the
commerce and resources of impoverished territories having
low standards of living and limited productive capacity, or
woula Japan on the contrary pursue a policy of cooperation
with similarly minded countries in order to utilize avail-
able resources of technical skill, cepital and progres-
sive economic leadership? The broader course would, the
Ambessador said, increase many times the purchasing power
of peoples, elevate their standards of living, and bring
lasting advantages. (2) ould Japan decide to associate
itself with countries committed to a polioy of acquisition
of territory by force? Such a policy, lir. Grew said, would
tond

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
nd to preclude cooperation with other nations and prevent
the utilization of tle cepitel, resources, ena technicsl
skill of various countries concerned in a broad program of
social enu economic development.
Mr. frita, after reeding cerefully fcr a second time
the record of the Ambessador's orel remarks, chose the
portion in which reference was nede to the eovernment of
Chiang Kai-shek and asked whether the Ambessador's cornment
signified that the American Government had made no chenge
in its policy of giving support to the Chinese Government
at Chungking. Mr. Grew replied that the passage referred
to was ebundantly cleer and meent exectly what it seid.
The Minister remarked that French sid to Chungking had al-
ready been stopped end thet British eid would in all proba-
bility soon cease, leeving Chieng Kai-shek assistance only
from the United States and the Soviet Union. Mr. Grew,
with reference to the obligetions of neutrality, steted
that assistence reeching Chungking from the United States
was very small compered to American cid reeching Japan.
The Minister did not pursue the subject further, but
in conclusion said that the Ambessador's presentations would
receive his and the Premier's most careful study end that
he would reply in the near future.
The resignation of the Cabinet precluded further con-
tinuance of these conversctions.
(b) Grew-Matsuoke conversations.
On July 26 the new Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lir.
Yosuke Matsuoka, received the various diplomatic chiefs of
missions individuelly in conformance to customery practice.
Opening the conversation the Minister seid that he had not
yet formulated his polioy but he wished to emphasize that
there

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
thore woula be no "Matsuoka policy" but only "the policy of
Japan". He asked the Ambasaador to coney to the Senretary
of State, Mr. Hull, the assurance that he has always ntteched
the greetast importance to American-Japenese relations. He
seid that he believed in complete frankness end referred to
a recent article which he had written to tie effect that
should the United States anc Japen ever go to war the causes
and reasons for thet war should be precisely known snd should
not result from nisunderstanding. The Ambessador seid that
in his opinion the word war" might be ruled out but that
he also firmly believed in streightforward telk. In reply
to the Minister's statement that history is based lergely
on the operation of blind forces not always cepable of
control, the Ambassedor scid that one of the prime duties
of diplomacy and statesmanship is to direct into healthy
channels those forces. He went on to say to the Minister
that it was his hope to discuss with Ir. latsuoke the present
state of American-Jepanese relations in the confident belief
that there coula be accomplished e great deal in giving
helpful directive to tlose blina forces. The fnbassador
left with lir. lletsuoka the informal record of his last tslk
with kr. rite in the hope thet it might form e useful
basis for their next conversation. Lir. Metsuoka accepted
the dooument, hich he seid he would be very glad to read.
At the conclusion of the meeting kir. Matsuoka asked the
Ambessador to convey a private message to the President.
(c) United States Iierines - Japanese Gendarmes
inoident at Shanghai on July 7.*
On the morning of July 9 all the Japanese newspapers
prominently featured a DOMEI despatch from Shanghai stating
in summary as follows:
The

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
"The Commander of the Japanese Gendarmerie
looked upon the arrest of Japanese gendarmes and
their detention as an unfriendly act but was
willing to consider the matter closed following
the release of those gendarmes. The Commander
regretted that he had failed to notify the American
garrison in advance of the fact thet gendarmes were
being sent into the American defense sector. Pos-
sible negligence on the part of the Japanese in
failing to give notificetion does not excuse the
indescribably outrageous and insulting treatment
which the Jepanese gendarmes received following
their arrest. Investigation revealed that (1)
the American Harines struck the gendarmes with
the butts of their rifles and three or four were
struck in the face; (2) the Japenese were in-
sistently jabbed with rifles and were beaten
whenever they spoke or spat while in the truck
en route to American Marine headquerters; (3)
the gendarmes were forced to sit in the rifle
practice yard and were threatened with loaded
rifles as though they were about to be executed."
In addition to the above DOrEI report practically all
newspepers carried special despatches from individual
Shanghai correspondents emphasizing the "outrageous and
insulting" treatment accorded the Japanese gendarmes even
after their identity was known to the American Marines. It
was reported that the Japanese authorities viewed the
situation with great seriousness for the reason that those
"outrageous acts" had been cormitted intentionelly and
vithout provocetion.
In con oraity vith the Department's instructions, the
nbassy on July 13 made an approach to the Foreign Office
concerning this incident and stated that the Secretary of
State had in recent press conferences made clear his belief
that the situation could be adjusted locally on a basis of
mutual prudence and reasonableness. It was pointed out,
however, that the effecting of such a local settlement was
rendered more difficult as a result of numerous statements
sensational in character whioh had reportedly been made by
various Japanese authorities at Shanghai and had been pro-
minently reported in Japanese newspapers there. It was
suggested

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
suggested that it would probcbly be helpful if the Japanese
Government could issue appropriate instructions to Japanese
officials at Shanghai to use their best efforts to discou-
rage the issuance or publication of sensational statements.
The Foreign Ofrice was informea that American officials at
Shanghai were being inst ucted cerefully to refrain from
statements which might be the pretext for further sensation-
alizing of the incident. The Foreign Office in reply said
that the Japanese Government was in accord with this view
but that it would be unnecessary to issue the instructions
suggested, since the Japanese Consul General et Shanghai hed
already repoted by telegreph that he had taken necessary
steps. The Embassy was also informed that the Foreign
Office had instructed the Jepanese Cousul General to use
his best efforts to effect a local settlement between the
militery cormanders concerned.
There were no further sensationel reports in the press
during July, nor was the matter discussed further by the
Embessy with the Foreign Office here.
(a) Comment in Japan on Secretary of State
Hull's statement July l6. Ciosing of
the Burma Road.*
An editorial in the ASAiI  as typical of press comment
on the Secretary of State's statement of July 16 concerning
the closing of the Burma route. This editorial characterized
the Seoretery of State's expression of opposition to the
prohibition of transportation of commodities aiding Chiang
Kai-shek as "characteristic of Anerican self-complacency".
The
*mbassy's telegrams: 596, July 18, 7 p.m.; 602, July 19,
6 p.m. Department's telegram: 270, July 16, 5 p.m.

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
he Sooretary's statement was said to represent a deliberete
and intentional refusal to recognize the fact thst war actual-
ly exists in Sast Asia. Contrested vith its attitude in this
instance, the ASAHI said the American Governnent was carefully
observing all cargo sailing from the United States to Russia
for fear that such sup lies might be of assistance to Germany.
The editorial stated that the action of the United States in
abrogating the Japanese-Anerican commercial treaty was done
deliberately to disrupt the negotiations between Great Britain
and Japan for the settlement of the Tientsin question and
that the American action delayed successful conclusion of
those negotiations for about one yeer. The Secretary's state-
ment was said to have as its purpose the disruption of the
Anglo-Japanese agreement concerning the Burma route. It
was suggested that because of a recent conference between
Seoretary Hull and Secreta y Stimson the statement was in
faot a "Si son statenent" rather than a "Hull statement."
The Foreign Office spokesman was reported to heve told
the press that ir. Hull's statenent was only one of meny
recent gestures made by the United States wiich Japen had
found "most trying and hard to understand."
The JAFAN TIiS reported that the Nevy spokesman charao-
terized Secretary of State Hull's statement as "uncalled
for intervention in a wrong place." The problem he said
concerned only Japan and Great Britain.
While the Secretary's statement was carried in all
vernacular newspapers, comment was naturally limited beoause
of the political crisis then preveiling in Japan.
(e) Press comment: Aaerican-Japanese relations.*
On July 3 the KOKUMIN reported that there was a rising
demand among the public that those ofricials sympathetic to
tho
*5:- say's tslecrams: 551, July 3rd; 559, July 4th; 554, July
9. 5 p.m.; 564, July 11th; 565, July 11th; 582, July 15th;
Glo, July 22, 8 p.m. Department's tel grans: 247, July 7,
8 p.me; es, July 8, 6 p.m.

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
the United States anc Great Britain should resign. The
overwhelming success of the German army in Europe, coupled
with the entrance of Italy into the war and the collapse
of France, were said to have forced "pro-demooratic" govern-
ment officials to give serious consideration to the pos-
sibility of closer relations with G:rmany and Italy. In
contrast to this movement the KoKUIN re orte thut the
Minister for Foreign Affairs had met secretly with the
American Ambassador two or three times following their
meeting at the official residence of the Minister of the
Imperial Household on June 10. Such officials, it was said,
could not be expected successfully to implement a policy of
closer relations with Germany and Italy. But on the con-
trary, should tl eir sentiments change, they would be
expected to become merely subservient to Germany and Italy.
The YOITURI on the same day compared the ordering of
the American fleet to return to Hawaii to the abrogcting of
the commercial treaty last year. It was said that the abro-
gation of the treaty came during the Anglo-Japanese nego-
tiations on the Tientsin question and was made for the
purpose of disruptinε those negotiations, whereas the return
of thefleet to Hawaii came during Anglo-Japanese negotiations
for the closing of supply routes through Burma and Hong Kong
and was carried out for similar reasons.
On July 4 the NICHI ICHI in its editorial emphasized
the continuance of tense American-Japanese relations. The
tresis was advanced that recent statements whioh had been
made by Admiral Taussig to the effect that war with Japan
was inevitable were,-ofrioial disclaimers notwithstanding,
undoubtedly reflective of the view of the American Navy, other
official ciroles, and certain sections of American publio
opinion. The artiole added that the American expeotation
of

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
an allied victory in Europe had been betrayed following
French capitulation and that the United States was showing
indications of anproeching Japan with inducenents of minor
proportions. All such overtures were believed to be based
purely on expediency with the hope of drawing Japan away
from Germany and Italy.
All Japanese newspapers prominently displeyed Jashington
despatches reporting that Senator Walsh had revealed that
the United States could not successfully wage war egainst
Japan without British and French assistance and tlat Secretary
Knox had expressed a similar opinion.
On July 15 the NICHI NICHI in its leading article urged
that Japan renounce a policy of dependence upon Englend and
the United States and esteblish a new world structure on the
prinoiple of regional alliances. It urged the strongest
kind of alliance among Jepan, Germany and Italy, which, fol-
lowing en adjustment of relations with Russia, would eneble
Japan to be well prepared for any "grave decision" should
Japanese-Americen relations deteriorate to the worst possible
state. It was said to be necessary for Japan to free itself
from economic dependence upon the United States and Great
Britain as sources of raw materials, chemicals, nachinery,
etc. The plan put forward by the NICHI NICHI envisaged
regional peace and order in Europe, American continents,
East Asia, etc. East Asia would include the South Seas areas,
French Indochina, Thailand, Netherlands East Indies, etc.
The ASAHI on the same day published an editorial expres-
sing anti-American sentiments. It attributed to the plans
for the expansion of the American Navy the objective of apply-
ing positive pressure upon Japan. The editorial alleged that
Great Britain was opposing the Japanese proposel to close the
Burma route as a result of advice received from the United
Statos

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
ates. The editorial asserted that since the United States
still refused to open negotiations for a new commercial treaty
the question of an embargo on raw materials to Japen remained
undecidad. The possibility was advanced that the United States
might treat Japan as an associate of Germany and Itely and deny
or restrict shipments to Japan. In that instance, the edito-
rial asserted, it would be necessary for Japen to take drastic
measures to secure her materials from other sources. Those
measures, it was said, would run counter to the interests of
the United States.
An observer reporting from the Osaka-Kobe area on July
18 stated that feeling in that area had at no time in past
year and a half been as pessimistic with regard to future
Japanese-American relations as it was then. It was stated
that the press there was agitating for the abendonment of
reliance upon Great Britain an: the United States, execution
of Japan's southward advence, and closer ties with the Rome-
Berlin axis.
The general reaction in Japan to the statements issued
by the President and the Secretery of State of the United
States concorning the lionroe Doctrine was at first to in-
terpret the President's statement as very similar to the
views held by Japan, that the question of peace and order
within the general area of ast Asia should be settled by
the countries located within that area. The Director of
the Information Bureau of the Foreign Office on July 10
expressed views of a similar purport.
The ASAHI in an editorial on the following day, however,
suggested that suoh an interpretation might be too optimistio
since the President of the United States had not mentioned
the question of the Netherlands Sast Indies a nd sinoe Great
Britain

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Britain was apparently supported by the United States in
refusing to close the Burma route. Tue editorial added trat
nerioan attitude toward Japan since the Manchurian incident
had been oonsistently antagonistic. The ASAHI suggested
that the views expressed by the Secretcry of State on July
5 characterizing Japan's policy as not a "Monroe Doctrine"
but armed invasion"; the reported hope of President Roosevelt
on July 6 that a monroe Dootrine be ap lied to East Asiu;
the statement issued by the President's secretary on July 7
to the effect that French Indochina be disposed of by the
"free decision of Asiatic countries"; and the statement on
the sane day ettributed to the Secretary of Stete that his
own and the President's interpretation of the onroe Doctrine
were not contradictory -- that all these expressions re-
presented contradictory opinions among American executive
officials and resulted from the inconsistency between practice
and theory.
(f) Matsuo case, end the Ariest of three Americans
at Keelung.
On July 3 Matsuo was given the verdict of the second
court to which he had arpealed. This court upheld the
sentence of the first court. atsuo decided to appeal to
the Supreme Court.
O: July 13 the Consul at T. i.oku reported that three
American citizens, ir. J. C. Siver nd vife and Mrs. Sever's
orother, Mr. Mor an Murtin, were arrested at Keelung, Taiwan,
after having anohored their yacht in a fortified zone off
that port. T: Consul in Taihoku was allowed to visit the
prisoners
*Embassy's telegrams: 527, July 2, 1 p.m.; 533, July 3, 6 p.m.;
540, July 4, 6 p.m.; 574, July 13, noon; 581, July 15, 5 p.m.
rarbassy's despatoh 4860, July 22, 1940. Department's tele-
gram: 254, July 10, 8 p.m.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.98)
-13-
Boners for the first time on July 13 but was not informed
by the authorities concerning the charges under which the
Americans were held.
(g) Reaction in Japan to the reported inclusion of
petroleum, petroleum products, end scrap metal
in the list of cormodities for licensed export.*
Toward the end of July there were prominently featured
in the Japanese press despatches from the United States re-
porting that additional commodities, including petroleum and
sorap iron, were to be placed under a system of licensed
exports by the American Government. The press reported on
July 27 that the Foreign Office spokesman in commenting on
these press despatches stated that it was desirable to avoid
definite comment pending the receipt of an official report to
the effect thet licenses for the restricted conmodities had
been refused for export to Japan. He did say, however, that
the inclusion in the list of restricted commodities of pe-
troleum and scrap netal, of which the United States has an
excess, required the fullest study concerning the motives
of the American Government in taking such action. The spokes-
man made the assumption that the United States had also care-
fully considered the probable effects of the neasures on the
international situation. Some newspapers considered this
measure as reflective of American animosity against Japan and
a reprisal for the closing of the Burma route. The general
reation in the press.was, however, not to expect drastic and
serious reduction in petroleum exports to Japcan, and the
assertion was made that while prohibition of the export of
sorap metals would adversely affect the Japanese steel in-
dustry, the large manufacturers had already taken adequate
measures to carry out Japen's industrial program.
(h) American representetions.**
1.
**mmbassy's telegrams: 567, July 12, 11 a.m.; 580, July 15, 1
p.m.; 601, July 19, 5 p.m.; 622, July 27, 1 p.m. Embassy's
despatohes: 4840, July 12; 4853, July 17. Department's
talegrams: 260, July 11, 6 p.m.; 271, July 16, 6 p.m.
may's telegrem: 622, July 27, 1 p.m.

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
-14
1. Early in July the Embassy received a reply from the
Foreign Office to several of the Embessy's notes concerning
claims for dameges suffered by Amerioan nationals in China.
The Foreign Office note stated that it was the Japanese
Government's policy to instruct local officials to handle the
settlement of such claims and that the Japanese Government
expected to continue this policy ena elicited the coopera-
tion of the American authorities in that endeavor.
Conformably with the Departmont's instructions, the
Ambassador addressed a note to the Linister for Foreign Af-
fairs on July 25, steting that the Depertment of State would
be agreeable to the procedure of local settlement for American
clains. It was pointed out thet the American Government con-
sidered the claims presented to the Japanese Government by
the Imbassy as not disposed of until such time as satisfac-
tory settlement had been reached through direct negotiations.
It was stated that the Ambassador would expect to receive
information from the Japanese Government as to what Japanese
authorities a particular claim is referred.
2. During the month of July the Imbassy received
replies from the Foreign Office to its representations con-
cerning the interest of the Nenyeng Brothers Tobacco Company
in certain properties at Hankow. The Foreign Office reply
stated, in brief, that the Japanese desired to continue their
investigation and their endeavor to reach "a fair and just
solution of the issue".
3. There was also received during July a reply to the
Embassy's representations concerning Japenese interference
with the business of the Universal Luef Tobacco Company in
North China. The Foreign Ofrice reply in general denied that
the Japanese authorities were interfering with the American
Company

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
stated thet instructions hed been sent to the Japanese
Consul General at Tsingtao to endeavor to expedite a set-
tlement of the question.
4. On July 15 conformably with the Department's instruc-
tions the Emhassy made representations to the Foreign Office
concerning the trade restriotions in North China. Reference
was made to the repeated American representations concerning
the discrininstory treatment given American trede in North
China. It was pointed out that there heú not been any ame-
lioration of the situation. The recently established ex-
change control over imports as well as over shipments from
central and south Chins vhich had been established by the
Japanese-sponsored authorities in North China rendered complete
the control of trade in that erea. The difficulties which
these regulations placed in the way of American trece was
olearly brought to the attention of the Foreign Office. A
full reservation of rights in regard to discriminations was
made and it was emphatioally requested that those discrimi-
nations oe renoved. The Embassy asked for an early reply
setting forth the intentions of the Japanese Government in
this metter.
5. On July ll the Anbassador in a conversation with the
Minister for Foreign Affairs once again drew to the Ifinister's
attention the attitude of the Amerioan Government in regard
to the bombing of civilian populations, and read to and left
with the iinister a part of a telegram from the American
Embassy at Chungking vividly desoribing the indiscriminate
character of Japanese bombings of that city. The Linister
merely replied that Japanese aviators seek to bomb only
military objeotives.
6. On July 19 conformably with the Department's tele-
graphio

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
telegraphic instructions, the Japanese iinister for Foreign
Affairs was informed that it wes not practicable to mcve, as
requested by the Japenese authorities, the U.S.S. TUTUILA
which was stationed at Chungking within a hunared yards of
the office of the American Embassy. Jt s cointed out that
the vessel was not close to military objectives of ary ird.
The confident expectation of the Americen Government vas ex-
pressed that. the Japanese Governnent would issue to appro-
priate military, naval, ana aeriel officers sufficiently
strict and effective instructions to ensure that Japanese
aerial operations would in the future in no way endanger or
threaten the U.S.S. TUTUILh or ti office of the Aerican
Ebassy at Chungking.
7. On July 12 the Eassy lodged with the Linistry of
Foreign Affairs a strong protest concerning the outrageous
incident in which two armed and uniformed Japanese entered the
American Fresbyterian Lission at Chefoo and attacked American
citizens therein.
II. RELATIONS ITI OTHER COUNTRICS.
( ) Gr rt Bri.rin.
1. A: lo-J. . cse discussions concerning prohibition of
transport of materials for the Chinese Government
at Chungking via Burma end Hong Kong.
In the early part of July, the Jepanese newspapers were
unanimous in stressing the importance of closing the routes
into China through Burma end Hong Kong. The general tone of
the press emphasized the "enemy character" of Great Britain
in continuing to assist Chiang Kai-shek. It was said that
the
*Imbassy's telegrams: 541, July 5th; 542, July 5, 6 p.m.; 544,
July 7, 9 a.m.; 549, July 8, 8 p.m.; 553, July 9, 2 p.m.;
555, July 9, 6 p.m.; 557, July 10, 4 p.m.; 571, July 12, 9
p.m.; 578, July 12, 11 p.m.; 577, July 13, 4 p.m.; 587, July
16, i1 p.m.

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
United States in particular was responsible for Great
Britain's "stubborn attitude". Some newspapers even went so
far as to suggest thet it was the United States itself which
was preparing a r eply to Japan's demands that the routes be
olosed.
There was some evidence thet certain well-informed and
highly placed Japanese hed suggested early in July to the
British authorities in Japan thet refusal to close the Burma
frontier to military supplies for China would bring about a
state of wer between Japan ana Great Britain. Such unof-
fioial pressure contained at that moment probably a certain
amount of bluff, but there can be no doubt of the seriousness
with whioh the Japanese Government viewed this question. The
Embassy in analyzing the pros and cons motivating Japanese
action, was of the opinion that the principal purpose of the
Japanese in seekin: to close these routes w as to destroy
Chinese morale and it was therefore problematicel whether such
a speculative project would warrant the great risks involved
in a war with the British Empire. It was noteworthy, however,
that the recent events in Europe were making their inevitable
reperoussions in Jepen, end a clarificction of Japanese policy
of the gravest consequences was capable of taking place at
any time.
On July 8 the British Ambassador left with the inister
for Foreign Affairs a long nemorandum expressing the views
of his Government on this question. The memorandum stated
that with regard to Eong Kong the transit of munitions had
been prohibited since January l939 and no war materials of any
kind had crossed the frontier since then. Turniny to the
question of the Burma route, the British Ambassador's memo-
randum stated that it was true that a small quantity of arms
and munitions did go into China by way of Burme. The
British

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
Atish Government, however, denied the Japanese assertion
that those supplies were a direct cause of the prolonfation
of the Sino-Japanese hostilities. With regard to non-mili-
tary supplies such as petroleum, trucks, etc., the memorandum
suggested thet those supplies, & large part of which origi-
nate in third countries, should be stopped at the source. It
was pointed out that strict neutrality would require Great
Britain to stop similar supplies going to Japan. Should
the Japanese press their request, the memorandun stated that
it would result in a serious crisis in Anglo-Japenese re-
lations. In conclusion the British memorendum pointed out
that the closing of the Burma route would at best be only a
partial solution of the problems of the Japenese Government,
and added that the British Government was ready end willing
to cooperate and to enter upon discussions to peve the way
to a general and constructive settlement which would bring
lasting peace and prosperity to the Far East.*
On the day following, July 9, the press violently de-
nounced the legalistic attitude taken by Great Britain and
intimated that if a favorable reconsideration on the part of
the British were not made within a reasonable time, the Japa-
nese Government would heve to take strong measures. Most of
the newspapers suggested that Great Britain's unyielding at-
titude was the result of encouragement and support received
from the United States. On July 12 this Embassy was informed
that the British Ambassador in discussing this question with
the Minister for Foreign Affairs had agreed that the British
Government would close the Burma route temporarily during the
rainy season and had expressed the hope that in the interim
discussions could be transferred from the specific question of
the
*Imbassy's despatohes: 4886, July 10; 4839, July 11.

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
-19-
olosing of the Burma route to a general settlenent of
the Far Eastern situation. At the same meeting it was agreed
that the British E rssy and the Foreign Office would inform
the press that satisfactory progress had been nade and that
a more complete announcenent would probably be forthccming on
July 15. On July 16 the American Ambassador was informed by
his British colleague of a joint communique to be issued by
the British and Japenese Governments under which the Burna
Government would express its agreement to the suspension for
a period of three months of the transit of arns and munitions
as well as petrol, trucks, and railway materials through Burma.
A similar undertaking was given for the transport of arns,
munitions, and otl er materials through Hong Kong. The com-
munique was subsequently issued in Japan but not in London.
2. Arrests of British nationels by Japanese gendarmes.*
On July 27 the British Ambassador nade representations
to the inister for For ign Affairs against the arrest by
Japanese gendarnes on charges of espionage of the Reuter cor-
respondent at Tokyo end eleven other British nationals in
various parts of Japan. The statement issued by the Foreign
Office following Sir Robert Craigie's call stated that the
Minister for Foreign Aifcirs had replied to the British A bas-
sador that the Jepanese Government vas in the process of formu-
lating its domestic snd foreign policies and was not in po-
sition to give a definite reply to the British A bassador's
question as to whether continuance of efforts to improve Anglo-
Japanese relations would serve any useful purpose. The Foreign
Office reply dic not, however, refer to the purpose of the
British
*muassy's tolu1 m8: 624, July 28, 11 a.m.; 625, July 28,
noon: 627, July 29, 9 p.m.; 633, July 31, noon; 634, Jul7
81,5 p.m.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
British Ambassador's call, which was to protest against the
arrests. On July 29 Ir. Cox, the Reuter correspondent who
was detained by the gendarmerie, died as & result of injuries
suffered from falling from a third-story window of the gen-
darmerie headquarters where he was being held. On July 31
the Jepanese Domei news agency issued a lengthy statement
outlining alleged British subversive activities in Japan.
This statement placed considerable emphasis and importance
on what were called the "propaganda and cultural activities"
of established churches, other cultural institutions, Salva-
tion Army, and British commercial firms in Japen. The British
objectives were said to have been the prevention of Japanese
assistance to Britain's enemies and the winning of Japanese
aid to the British cause. These arrests end the agitation
in the press and amongst anti-British societies brought Anglo-
Japanese relations into a most critical state at the end of
the month.
(b) Netherlands East Indies.*
On the first of July the Embassy obtained from a con-
fidential source a copy of the Japenese reply to the Nether-
lands note given to the Japanese Foreign Office in June con-
cerning Jepanese demands for specific quentities of certain
materials from the Netherlands East Indies. The Japanese
Government in its reply referred specifically to the Nether-
lands undertaking to refrain from any meesures which would
hinder export of the thirteen comnodities in the quantities
mentioned
*Embassy's telegrams: Nos. 523, July 1, 6 p.m.; 524, July 1,
7 p.m.; 593, July 18, 10 a.m.; 630, July 30, 7 p.m.; 631
July 30, 8 p.m.; Embassy's despatoh No, 4833, July 11, 1940.

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
Intioned in the Japanese originel request and said that the
Japenese Government interpreted this undertaking to mean that
the Netherlands Indies definitely undertake to export an-
nually to Japan under any circumstences at least the quantities
requested o f the thirteen articles mentioned..........and in
order to carry out this definite undertaking they will of
course take appropriate neasures when necessary and the
export prices shall not be higher than the market prices".
In an annex to the reply certein specific changes were made
with regard to the quantities desired of scrap iron, manga-
nese ore, wolfram, salt end petroleum. Concerning the latter
product, the Japanese state that they required a long-term
contract providing for the purchase of at least one nillion
tons of petroleum products and requested the Indies Govern-
ment to facilitate the conclusion of such a contract.
About the middle of July, it was announced that a com-
mercial rission would be sent to the Netherlands East Indies
to carry on commercial negotietions. The mbassy was con-
fidentially informed that this nission included one army and
one navel officer as well as two oil experts of the Litsui
Company. This unofficial group was nade up of seven Japanese
and was scheduled to leeve for the Wetherlends East Indies
on August 2.
The Netherlands Government, under date of July 26,
replied to the Japanese note and stated inter alia that the
Netherlands Governnent had always desired an increase of
Netherlands Indies exports to Japan and were endeavoring to
adjust exports in so fer as equality of treatment for all
friendly nations should not be interfered with. In the
Netherlands reply it was stated that the Indies Government
would stimulate and facilitate exports to Japan and would
take into account Japan's special demands. In an annex to
the

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
the Netherlands reply details were given concerning various
specific quantities end commodities. This annex emphasized
that negotiations should be undertaken directly with the
commercial companies concerned and stated that already such
negotiations had been begun.
(c) France.*
(1) French Indochina.
On July 5 it was announced in the press thet there had
been conoluded a provisional agreement under which passenger
planes flying on the Tokyo-Bangkok airline would be allowed
to stop at Hanoi, French Indochina. A formal agreement, it
was reported, would be concluded shortly thereafter specify-
ing the number of flights to be made each week. During the
month of July there appeared on severel occasions special
despatches from Canton to vernacular newspapers indicating
that the Japanese Army command at Canton vas developing a
particular interest in French Indochina.
(a) China.**
The press from time to time during the month reported
the continuance of conversations at Nanking between General
Abe and Wang Ching-wei. No concrete results, however, were
reported.
Militery ectivities during the month of July were not
marked by any particularly outstending operations. In Central
China the Japanese forces continued to oocupy Ichang but did
not embark upon any new important operations. In North China
there was undertaken a clean-up campaign in western Shantung
and the southern part of Hopeh Provinoe. During the latter
half of the month Japanese forces occupied many points along
the
*mbassy's telegrem No. 529, July 2, 10 p.m.
Mmbassy's despatch No. 4820, July 9, 1940.
**prepered with the assistance of the Militery Attache's ofrice.

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
-23
the South China Coast from Chekiang, south to include eastern
Kwantung. The Japanese forces also extended their occupied
areas along the French Indochine border.
Borbing operations on points in Szechuan were continued
throughout the month.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL AFFAIRS.
(a) The Cabinet.*
In analyzing the domestic political situation on July
2, the Ambassador reported to the Department that there
were many indications that the efforts to overthrow the
Cabinet and to bring about a more drastic foreign policy
were coming to a head. The consensus of opinion at that
time was that the chenges might be expected soon after the
return of the Emperor of "Manchukuo" to his country on July
7 and that the new Cabinet would be formed by Prince Konoye.
The critical political situation had been brought into sharp
focus by the circumstances attending the radio address of
the Minister for Foreign Affairs on June 29. The report
which had appeared in all newspapers the previous morning
that an official declaration of a policy of cooperation with
Germany and Italy would be forthcomin; hed not had the appro-
val or knowledge of the Prime Linister. The general impres-
sion given by the ambiguous radio address of the iinister for
Foreign Affairs wes that while he might have favored a strong
foreign policy he was circumscribed by a weak Army and Navy.
On July 2 the vernacular press stated briefly and in
guarded terms that the War Minister was carefully investiga-
ting the "ciroumstances leading up to the radio address of the
Minister
*Embasmy's telegrams: 584, July 16, 6 p.m.; 585, July 16, 7
p.mo; 590, July 17, 5 p.m.; 591, July 17, 10 p.m.; 592, July
18, 9 a.m.; 593, July 18, 6 p.m.; 599, July 19, no0n; 600,
July 19, 1 p.m.; 603, July 19, 7 p.m.; 605, July 20, 3 p.m.;
606, July 21, 5 p.m.; 608, July 22; 611, July 23, 10 a.m.;
618, July 25, 6 p.m.; 614, July 24; 617, July 25, 5 p.m.

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
-84-
hister for Foreign Affairs and the subsequent harmful
propaganda." It was expected that he would present an import-
ant statement to the Prime Minister within a few days. On
July 4 a joint communiquè was issued by the War and Foreign
Offices to close the incident of the Foreign Iinister's
radio address. In conolusion the communiquè stated "reports
to the effect that there was disagreement between the lar
Offioe and the Foreign Office with regard to the contents of
the Foreign Llinister's address are without any foundation in
fact." The press in commenting on this incident, following
removal of a press ban on the subject, stated that the con-
fusion and incorrect conclusions concerning this question
had resulted from the circulation of erroneous rumors and
irresponsible disclosure of infornation touching upon national
policies. While this announcement settled the incident in
itself it was considered significant that the press continued
to reflect a certain degree of uncertainty in the stability
of the Cabinet.
On July 16 the entire Cabinet resigned. The following
day the vernacular press in reporting the resignetion of the
Yonai Cabinet was virtually unanimous in stating that poli-
tical change was necessary at that time in order to (a)
strengthen national unity through the "new political struc-
ture" and (b) "revitalize and strengthen" Japan's foreign
polioy. The resignation of the Cabinet was said to heve
grown out of a graduelly widening divergence of opinion be-
tween the "Army and the Cabinet." The press agreed in con-
sidoring Prince Konoye as the only candidate likely to re-
ceive the Imperial Command to form a new Governnent. This
prediction was realized on July 17 when the Emperor commanded
Prinoo

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
Prince Konoye to undertake the responsibility of forming 8
new Cabinet.
On July 18 the press reported thet rince Konoye had
had a long conversation with the former Var and Navy Mini-
sters and had exchanged views vith them. It was said that
the new Premier's policy would be to select the War, Nevy and
Foreign Ministers first and in a conference with them to
decide upon and obtain ogreement to Jepan's high policy
before proceeding with the selection of other ministers and
important Government officials. uestions to be decided at
this conference were said to be revision of Japan's policy of
non-involvement in the European hostilities, strengthening
the Rome-Tokyo-Berlin axis and other fundanental changes in
Japan's foreign policy as well as inportant domestic poli-
cies. The pres in general emphasized that the new Cabinet
should be in harmony with nilitary circles and should there-
fore beoome a strong enduring Cabinet.
Vernacular newspapers reported during the early days of
the Cabinet formation that Prince Konoye desired to realize
close cooperation and understanding between the civil Govern-
ment and the Army authorities. It was suggested that there
would probably be revived the liaison conferences and con-
feronces before the Throne which hed been helå frequently
during the previous administration of Prince Konoye. A meet-
ing of the four inisters, the Prenier, General Tojo, War
Minister, Admiral Yoshida, Navy Linister, and r. Matsuoka,
Foreign Minister, which was characterized as the "Supreme
National Defense Council" was held from four o'clock on July
19.
In an analysis of the Cabinet chenge the Ambassador re-
ported to the Department that the s leotion of Prince Konoye
as

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
-26-
as the new Prime Minister depended upon the question vhether
the hostilities in China coula be expected to be brought to
an end within the reasonably neer future. Prince Konoye's
selection was, therefore, in the Embassy's opinion, a clear
indication that Jepanese official circles were becoming more
optinistic concerning the prospects of bringing the China
conflict to an end. Such optimism was probably derived in a
certein measure from the events in Europe. The precise
reasons for the resignation of the Yonai Cabinet were not at
that time fully exposed. Te Japanese public, although it was
not fully aware of the fact thet ∴dmiral Yonai had been per-
sistently skeptical over the benefits of close association
with Germany and Italy nor of his lack of enthusiesm for the
economic new order in East Asia, sensed a lack of vigor on
the part of the Yonai Cabinet in approaching problems direc-
tly and indirectly related to the Cli?: incident. At the same
time the speed of events in Europe seem to impel Japan toward
closer reletions with Germany and Italy. It is not to be over-
looked that the Japanese people were eager after a decade of
almost complete isolation to grasp the hands of friendly
nations which had demonstreted their military strength.
The new C inet was on the whole believed to be conserva-
tive with the exceptions of . Hoshino, Iinister without
Portfolio and Director of the Planning Bo rd, Ir. Kazami,
Minister of Justice, and possibly ir. Matsuoka, inister for
Foreign Affairs. It was not expected that there would be any
abrupt or drastic change in foreign policy in the immediate
future. It was believed that economio considerations would
preelude any definitive and irresponsible action by Japan at
that time although the general trend was certainly toward
closer relations with the axis Powers. Concrete action was
10

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
in the Ambassador's opinion not to be expected until the out-
come of the struggle in Europc became more clearly visible
and at the sam: time it was not expected that Japan would
enter into definite commitments with the United St:tes on any
terms compatible with A.erican policy.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Not:ln to report.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GEIERAL FINANCIAL AND CONONIC CONDITIONS*
During the month of July cautiousness pervaded business,
financial and industrial circles. This general atmosphere
was caused by the feeling of unoertainty with regard to poli-
tical developments. Early in the month it was generally
expected that the Cabinet could probably not meintain its
position. Following the appointment of Premier Konoye there
remained considerable hesitation in economic circles pending
a clarification of the new Government's policies. General
business conditions were lergely at a standstill. All share
prices on the various exchanges in Japan showed a declining
tendency. Bank note circulation was slightly contracted during
the month, and the absorption of national bonds was imper-
ceptibly reduced.
Legislation looking to the prohibition of the manufacture
and sale of luxury articles brought about slight increase in
the mumber of bankruptoies during the month of July. Business
circles were of the opinion that this legislation was the fore-
runner of more intensive regulation of every article con-
sidered non-essential. Full enforcement of these laws would
bring
Prepared with the Assistance of the office of the Commsroial
Attaché.

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
bring about a change in employment of great numbers of
laborers end manufacturers. The menufacture of luury articles
was prohibited as of July 7 and sale of those erticles would
be prohibited as from Octcber 7th. A serious drivo to force
the export of luxury articles might be expected.
As has already been stated the general apprehension in
economic circles was shared by industrialists. Industrial
activity, however, continued on a fairly high level and with
the improvement in water supplies there was available more
hydroelectric power. Coal distribution was accelerated. Iron
and steel share prices declined following the announcenent
that scrap iron and steel would be placed under a licensing
system.for export by the United States.
Total exports from the Japanese Empire for the month of
July were Yen 358,260,000 while total imports for the Jcpa-
nese Empire were Yen 281,806,000.
Total exports for Jepan Proper totalled Yen 329,302,000,
while total imports for Japan Proper amounted to Yen
256,944,000.
The Embassy has up to the present been unable to obtain
a breakdown of these figures which would indicate the rela-
tive amounts of exports and imports to and from non yen-bloc
countries.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF ANERICAN COMERCIAL IINTERESTS.*
Early in July it was brought to the Anbassador's at-
tention that the firm of Andrews and George, long-established
in Japan as the sole agent for various American machine tool
manufactures, was being subjected to increasing pressure from
certain elements in the Ministry of Commerce and emong
Japanese
*Psemered with the assistance of the office of the Commercial
attaoh6.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
Japanese business circles to force the sale of the Company to
the Japanese firm, Sanyo Shokai, vhich is entirely German-
controlled. Details of the terms of sale had not been worked
out but it was indicated that the American branch of Andrews
and George and Company in New York voulá continue to function
and that the Jepenese Company would deal only with Andrev's
and George in New York. This would in effect result in the
control by Germen interests of the sale of American mechine
tools in Japan.
On July 16 the Ministry of Commerce end Industry issued
a written order to Andrews and George for the sale of its
company to interests here in Jepan. This order provided
for more than fifty per cent Jepanese control of the Company
and in a separate paragraph stipulated that 40 percent or
less of the shares were to be sold to "X", presumebly the
German company. The order also required that "part of the
company's foreign currency be used as directed by the lachine
Bureau of the Department of Commerce and Industry.
A later conversation with Mr. R. . Andrews of Andrews
and George indicated that the order from the Iinister of
Commerce and Industry had been issued by a minor official
and that officials of the Finance Ministry were indignant at
the treatment being given the American firm and had in-
dicated that they would give Andrews and George active as-
sistance in this question. In view of these ciroumstances
it was apparent that the case had not developed to the point
of involving questions of Japanese law or policy. The Embassy
therefore withheld the taking of any action.
This case, however, was one of the more extrome examples
of pressure being brought to bear on American firms in Japen
through

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.97)
-30-
through Japanese laws and regulations requiring import and
exohange permits. The Embassy continued to follow the general
question carefully throughout the month of July.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X.
LISC LLANEOUS.
Nothing to report.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
TELEGRAMS SENT TO THE DEPARTMENT
JULY
1540
1 o.
D.te
Subject
519 June 30, 3 p. m.
Press report of conference of Army
officials.
520
July 1, 11 a.m.
Interview with "Mr. X."
521
July 1, 5 p.m.
For Haag of the Maritime Commission.
522
July 1, 6 p.m.
Leave of absence of Mr. Makinson.
523
July 1, 6 p.m.
Japanese-Netherlands Indies relations.
524
July 1, 7 p.m.
Japanese-Netherlands Indies relations.
525
July 1, 8 p.m.
Press comment on the Foreign Minister's
radio address.
526 July 2, noon
Note from the Foreign Office regarding
claims.
527 July 2, 1 p.m.
Detention of Matsuo.
528
July 2, 2 p.m.
Political situation in Japan.
529
July 2, 10 p.m.
Appointment of new Governor General
in French Indo-China.
530 July 3, 3 p.m.
Receipt of documents from the British
Ambassador.
531 July 3,
Press comment on American-Japanese
relations.
532
July 3, 5 p.m.
Visas for students on TAISEI MARU.
533
July 3, 6 p.m.
Detention of Matsuo - sentence.
534
July 3, 7 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations.
535
July 3, 8 p.m.
Andrews and George negotiations.
536
July 3, 10 p.m.
Tokugawa broadcast.
537
July 4, 2 p.m.
Telegram reference quoted.
538
July 4, 3 p.m.
Communique issued by the War and Foreign
Offices on the Foreign Minister's
radio address.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
No.Date
Subject
539 July 4,
Press comment on American-Japanese
relations.
540 July 4, 6 p.m.
Detention of Matsuo.
541 July 5,
Press comment on closing of the Burma
route.
542 July 5, 6 p.m.
Closing of the Burma route.
543 July 6, 10 a.m. Instruction to see the Foreign Minister
and decoding of telegram.
544 July 7, 9 a.m. Closing of the Bnrma route.
545 July 8, 10 a.m. Arrival of new code clerk.
546 July 8, 11 a.m. Interview with "Mr. X. "
547
July 8
Foreign Minister's address on July 7th.
548 July 8, 5 p.m.
Press interview with Prince Konoye.
549 July 8, 8 p.m.
Text of "summary" left by the British
Ambassador with the Foreign Minister.
550 July 8, 11 p.m.
Authorization for payment of salaries.
551 July 9, noon
Press despatch on arrest of Jananese
gendarmerie in Shanghai.
552 July 9, 1 p.m.
Arrest of Japanese gendarmerie in Shanhai.
553 July 9, 2 p.m.
Press reports on British refusal to close
Burma route.
554 July 9, 3 p.m.
President's statement.
555 July 9, 6 p.m.
British-Japanese negotiations.
556 July 9, 7 p.m.
British Ambassador's telegram to Foreign
Office about hostilities in China.
557 July 10, 4 p.m.
Press comment on Britain's refusal to
close Burma route.
558 July 11, 4 p.m.
Interview with the Foreign Minister.
559
July 1l, 6 p.m. Japanese-American relations.
560
561
562
563

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
No. Date
Subject
564 July 11,
Foreign Office spokesman's remarks on
the President's statement concerning the
Monroe Dootrine.
565 July 11,
Press comment on the President's statement
566 July 1l, midniht Oral representat: ons - bombing of
civilians.
567 July 12, 11 a.m.
Protest - Anerican Presbyterian Mission,
Chefoo.
568 July 12, 5 p.m.
Fress report of conference of retired
Japanese ambassadors with the Foreign
Minister.
569 July 12, 6 p.m.
Departure of Admiral Nomura for the
Mandated Islands.
570 July 12, 7 p.m.
For commerce - rayon shipments.
571 July 12, 9 p.m.
Burma route negotiations.
572 July 12, 11 p.m.
Oral statement of the British Ambassador -
Burma route negotiations.
573 July 13, 11 a.m. Interview with Mir. X.
574 July 13, noon
Arrest of Mr. and Mrs. Sever and
Mr. Pattison in Taihoku.
575 July 13,
Foreign Office reply to representations -
Nanyang Brothers Tobacoo Company.
576 July 13, 2 n.m.
Assignment of personnel to apartment
houses.
577 July 13, 4 p.m.
Burma route negotiations - telegram to
London.
578 July 13, 6 p.m.
Arrest of Japanese gendarmes at Shanghai.
579 July 14, 7 p.m.
American-Japanese relations.
580 July 15, 1 p.m.
Representations - North China Trade
Restriotions.
581 July 15, 5 p.m.
Arrest of Sever in Taihoku.
582 July 15,
Press comment - Japan's foreign policy.

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
583 July 16, 5 p.m.
Conversation of the Counselor with the
British Ambassador.
584 July 16, 6 p.m.
Reported resignation of the Cabinet.
585
July 16, 7 p.m.
Resignation of the Cabinet.
586
July 16, 10 p.m. Andrews and George - negotiations.
587
July 16, 11 p.m. Burma route negotiations.
588
July 17, noon
Use of codes.
589
July 17, 1 p.m.
Requisition for typewriters.
590
July 17, 5 p.m.
Press reports on resignation of Cabinet.
591 July 17, 10 p.n.
Prince Konoye com anded to form a new
Cabinet.
592 July 18, 9 a.m.
Formation of new Cabinet.
593 July 18, 10 a.m.
Japanese commission to the Netherlands
East Indies.
594 July 18, 4 p.m.
Radio equipment.
595 July 18, 6 p.m.
Press reports on formation of new Cabinet.
596 July 18, 7 p..
Press comment on Secretary of State's
remerks concerning closing of trade routes
in China.
597 July 19, 10 a.m. Visit of Aabassador Steinhardt.
598
July 19, 11 a.m. Broadcast of Count Kabayama.
599
July 19, noon
Press comment concerning Ayukawa.
600
July 19, 1 p.m.
Telegram reference.
601
July 19, 5 p.m.
Representations - U.S.S. TUTUTLA.
602 July 19, 6 p.m.
Remarks of Mr. Suma - American-Japanese
relations.
603 July 19, 7 p.m.
Agenda of Supreme National Defense
conference.
604 July 20, 2 p.m.
Andrews and George.
605 July 20. 3 p.m.
Conference of Prince Konoye and Mr.
Ayukawa - press comments.

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
No. Date
Subject
606 Ju1y 21, 5 F.m.
Interview of Mr. Fleisher with Mr.
Matsuoka.
607 July 22, 4 .m.
Deperture of Mrs. Dooman.
608
July 22,
Composition of new Cabinet.
609
July 22, 7 p.m.
Interview with Ir. X.
610 July 22, 8 n.m.
Report on Jepanese-American reletions
from Osaka.
611 July 23, 10 a.m. Investiture of Konoye Cabinet.
612
July 23, 5 p.m. Drawing of American checks in Japan.
613
July 23, 6 p.m. Foreign policy of the new Cabinet.
614
July 24,
Press interview of Premier onoye.
615
July 25, 10 a.m. For Commerce.
616
July 25, noon
Visa request of Ir. Ernesto Arrighi.
617
July 25, 5 p.m. Resignation of Masayuki Tani.
618
July 26, 4 p.m. Sup lies at Hainan.
619
July 26, 5 r.n. Reception of the new Fo cign Minister.
620
July 26, 6 p.m.
Conversation of the Anbassador with the
Foreign jinister.
621 July 26, 7 p.m. Telegran reference.
622
July 27, 1 p.m.
U. S. press despatches on licensing of
petroleun products and scrap metal.
623 July 28, 9 a.m.
Denortation from Taihoku to Canton of
Severs and Pattison.
624 July 28, 11 a.m.Arrest of British nationals - British
renresentations.
625 July 28, noon
Arrest of British netionals - Foreign
Office press release.
626 July 29, noon
Visa application - Mr. Ernesto Arrighi.

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
No.
Date
Subject
627 Ju1y 29, 9 p.m.
Arrest of British nationals - death of
Mr. M. J. Cox.
628 July 30. 5 p.m.
Press report of replacement of Ambassador
Horinouchi by Ayukawa.
629 July 30, 6 p.m.
Conversation of the British Ambassador
with the Foreign Minister.
630
July 30, 7 p.m.
Note of the Netherlands Government.
631
July 30, 8 p.m.
Note of the Netherlands Government.
632
July 31, 10 a.m.
Mail on the PRESIDENT HARRISON.
633
July 31, 12 noon Arrest of British nationals.
634
July 31, 5 p.m.
British-Jepanese relations.
635
July 31, 8 p.m.
Arrest of Mr. Morin.
636
July 3l. midnight Arrest of Mr. Morin.

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.98)
Despatches sent to the Department
July 1940
No
Date
Subject
4810
July 1
Home leave of Ir. Charles H. Faust,
Custocian
4311
July 1
Living quarters statonent in the case
of Liss Marion I. Glaeser, clerk.
4012
July 1
Pan Pacific Trading Coripany - Activities
of Ir. William F. Lyte.
4813
July 5
Danae to property of Ceventh Day A-
ventist llission at Chungking rosulting
fron bombing by Japanese airplanes on
June 12, 1940.
4814
July 3
Transnitting nevspaper clipping entitled
"United States inpatient over vorld
situation" fron the Tokyo Nichi Nichi.
4815
July 5
Cuarterly roport of personnel rosiding
in Governnent-ovmed buildings.
4816
July 6
Transmitting nenorandun of conversation
between The Anerican Anbassador and the
Japanese linister for Foroign Affairs,
June 28, 1940.
4017
July 6
A tribute to the late Princo Iyesato
Tokugava - broadcast to the United States,
July 5, 1940.
4813
July C
Visit to Japan of Goneral John F. O'Ryan.
4819
July C
Diplonatic visa report.
4020
July 9
Air service between Japan and Thailand.
4821
July 9
Transnitting nevspaper clipping entitled
"Public Opinion Poli" fron the Japan
Times of July 6, 1940.
4822
July 9
Transmitting newspaner clippings - Japan
Advertiser anc Japan Tines, July 7, 1940
- eyevitness account of Anti-Japanese
riots in Lina, Peru.
4823
July 9
Report of conditions in Japan curing the
nonth of lay 1940.
4824
July 10
Highvay statistics report.
4825
July 10
Transnitting memorandum of conversation
betveen American Anbassador anc the Japa-
nese linister for Foreign Affairs on
June 24, 1940.
4026
July 10
Japanese attitude tovar& Great Britain.
4827
July 11
Personal losses suffered by Ir. Ralph M.
Thite, Ir. Hwitt D. Rodger, and Miss A.
Viola Snith, American citizens, as the
results of acts of Japanese foroes in
China.

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
4828
July 11
Tin Smelters and refinerics in Japan
and volfram snelters in 'anchuria.
4829
July 12
Diplomatic visa report.
4830
July 1l
Transmitting nevspaper clipping ontitled:
"Japan-American accord-is urgod by Irs.
Jatkins" - Japan Tines, July 2, 1940.
4831
July 11
Transnitting copy of British reply to
Japaneso request that British Embassy
be vitharavm from Chungking.
4832
July 11
Transmitting newspaper iten ontitled
"Vistor optirnistic for U.S. and Japan"
fron the Japan Advertiser of June 27,
1940: statenents attributec to Hajor
General John F. O'Ryan.
4333 July 11
Transmitting the text of the reply of
the Japanese Governnent to the Nether-
lands Governnent's note cated June 6,
1940.
4334
July 11
British representations regarding res-
trictions on travel of third power na-
tionals betveen Shanghai and Hankow.
4835
July 11
Difficultios encountered by British
shipping in the use of the Port of
Tsingtao.
4836
July 11
Employment of Lanont L. Thompson,
Ressenger.
4337
July 11
Rostrictions on travel of third power
nationals in China: Port of Swatow.
4038
July 11
Indignities suffered by lesdanes
Richardson and Lancaster at hands of
Japanose sontry.
4839 July 11
British-Japanese relations: Japanese
denands concorning shipnent of arms to
China through Hong Kong and Burma.
4840
July 12
Transmitting nenoranaum of conversation
botwoen the Amorican Ambassacor and the
Japanese Iinister for Foreign Affairs on
July 11, 1940, regarding the bombing of
Chungking.
4841
July 12
Damages suffered by the Chungking Ice
Company Incorporated, during an air raid
upon Chungking by Japanese forces on
June 12, 1940.
4842
July 12
Tranamitting address made by Aabassador
Joseph C. Grew on July 8, 1940.
4843
July 12
Trespass by armed Japanese upon property
of the American Presbyterian lfission in
Chefoo on July 4, 1940.

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
4844
July 12
Transmitting mamorandum of conversation
between the American Ambassador and the
Japanese Minister for Foreign Affairs,
July 11, 1940.
4845
July 12
Report on oodes.
4846
July 11
Transnitting nevspaper clipping -
Seventh Aierica-Japan Student Conference,
July 9, 1940. The visit to Japan of
several American stucent roups.
4847
July 12
Transnitting clipping - remarks of lir.
Tamon laeca, of Japan Institute of the
Society for International Cultural
Relations, July 9, 1940.
4848
July 13
Interest of Nanyang Brothers Tobacco
Company, Inc., in cortain proporties
at Hankow.
4849
July 15
Methodist Iission, Chungking--Japanese
bombing of.
4850
July 15
Anerican Bible Sociěty, Chungking--
Japanese bonbing of.
4851
July 16
Information regarding Mr. S. Nishikava.
4852
July 17
Seventh Day Adventist llission, Chuanchow
--Japanese bonbing of.
4053
July 17
Trace restrictions in Horth China.
4854
July 18
Christian and lissionary Alliance,
Taiping--Japanese bonbing of.
4855
July 13
Text of remarks ade by the merican
Arassador and by Count Kabayama at a
meeting of the Anerica-Japan Society,
Tokyo, July 11, 1940.
4856
July 18
Resignation of Kiky Hayashi, charwonan,
and enployment of Umeko Kohina, char-
wornan.
4857
July 24
Request for authorization to purchase
steanship tickots in looal currency.
4858
July 20
Diplomatic visa report.
4859
July 20
Departnentsconments on inventory transfer
form No. 298 submitted by the Embassy
on October 10, 1939.
4860
July 22
Translation of Court decision in the
Hatsuo Case.
4861
July 22
Request from Maritime Transport Linos,
Ino.
4862
July 22
Liotion Picture Industry in Japan--1939.

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
July 22
Inorganic paint-E.&T. Note No. 570,
lHay 4, 1958.
4864
July 25
uarterly report on market for office
eruipmont in Japan.
4865
July 25
Recuest fron the Communications Bureau
for the Tokyo District that the American
Atbassacor  aio application for a pernit
for his racio recciving set.
4366
July 25
Attituce of  aster of a Japanese Ship
in refusing to render assistance at
sea to the U.S. laritime Corission
notor ship "MST CUSSETA": Foreign
Office re ly to hibassy's representa-
tions.
4067
July 25
ierican Catholic Mission, Lincivan-
Japanese onbin of.
4068
July 20
Information desired by National Research
Council.
4869
July 24
Recuinition for materials for official
use of the bassy.
4070
July 24
Cliopin entitled "Trade Drive Asked
for South merica" from the Janan
Cvertisor of July 16, 1940.
4071
July 20
Universal Leaf Tobacco Co.
4C72
July 27
Diplonatic visa report.
4873
July 30
Ja anese interforence vith the property
of Me American Casholic Mission, Sin-
sian, onan.
4374
July 50
Covenant ir sionary bociety, ianglins--
Ja anese  o bine of.
4675
July 50
Covenant  issionary Society at Yanchang
—-T chone bo bing of.

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 6, 1940.
pagee 38-36
Tokyo's "Roport of Conditions in Japan
Auring the month of August 1940" (despatch
no. 5054 dated Ootober 8, 1940)..
Most of the material of interest in
this report has already been received in
the Division in previous telegrams and des-
patches, reference to which is made in
various footnotes to the report. General
divisions end subjects of the report are
indicated in the *Index and Summary"
following the title page.
There is no indication in the report
that the following information ("General
Financial and Economic Conditions") has been
previously received in the Division.
During August Japanese business circles
were frankly apprehensive with regard to the
future cour se of the new Government's control
over business. The stock market was weak.
The rate of national bond absorption
was characterized as "poor"--71 percent as
compared with 104.5 percent during July.
The

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
The average daily note issue of the
Bank of Japan reached a new high.
Wholesale and retail prices advanced
sharply over the corresponding figures for
the preceding year.
At the month end the Prime Minister
announced more rigid controls of trade in
the yen bloo area.
For the month there was a foreign
trade export balance of ¥31,399,000, as
compared with an export balance of
¥76,694,000 in July.
894.00 P.R./153
RoB.
FE:RWBYRD:FRE

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, October 8, 1900,
5054
AMERICAN EMBASSY
SUBJECT:
MIPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST 194C.
PAR  SAT
38
FE
ECVE
4
9
Department of Sate
O0T
DENTIAL
894.00 P.
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
Grade
NOV 1 3 1940
For
OFFICE EF THE ANASER DA
ERATIL CUN APTARS
ghe Honorable
NOV151940
DEPARTMENT
The Secretary of State,
55
Washington.
4.00PR
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
mbassy's monthly report on conditions in Japan for the
month of August 1940.
VOV22
Respectfully yours
FILED
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosurby
Report No. 167
800
MNS:gt
In sextuplioate to the Department.
Copies to Embassies: Peiping, Chungking, Moscow.
Copy to Legation: Bangkok.
Coples to Consulates Generals
ai, Tlemtsin, Mkden,
Barain, Beoul, Tokyer
Capies to Consulates: Dairen, Osaka, Kebe, Magasaki, Nagoya,
Taihoku, Yokohga.
Copy to High Commissioner to the Philinpine Talands.
Copy to Commamder-in-Ohier of the U- aiatie Fleet.

=== Page 363 === (confidence 1.00)
No. 167
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST 1940

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X
ANN D
SUMMARY
Pages
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai involving
American marines and Japanese gendarmes.
1-3
(b) Shanghai Defense Seotor.
4-10
(c) Arrest of the Associatef Press Cor-
respondent, Mr. Rolmen Moriit.
10-13
(a) American Representations Concerning
French Indo-China.
13,14
(e) Reaction in Japan to American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.
14,15
(f) More Important Representations by the
Embassy.
15,16
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Grest Britain.
1. Arrest of British Subjects in
J:pen and Japenese subjocts in
the British Empire.
16-18
2. Withdrawal of British military
garrisons at Shanghei, Peiping end
Tiontsin.
18-20
(b) The Netherlands East Indies.
20-22
(c) Russia.
22,23
(a) Fronch Indo-China.
23-25
(e) Latin America.
25,26
(f) China.
26,27
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(c) Govornment Announcement Concerning
High Policy.
27-29
(b) Crunges in Foreign Orfice and Foreign
Service Personnel.
29-31
(c) National Structure.
31,32
(a) Orgcnization of the Cavinet Intelligence
Bureau.
32,33
IV.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
33
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
33
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
33-36
VII. ACTIVITIES OF LERICIN COMMERCIIL INTERESTS.
36
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COIMERCIAL INTERESTS.
36
IX. LABOR.
36
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
36,37

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai Involving
American Marines end Japenese gendarmes.*
Conformably with the Department's instructions, the
Ambas: edor on August 3 made an oral approach to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs concerning the July 7 incident at Shanghai
which followed the arrest of Japanese gendarmes in plain-
clothes by Americen marines. The Ambassador stated that the
Americen Governmont, after careful review of the correspondence
between the Americen end Japanese militery authoritios at
Shanghai, was of the opinion that tho attitude of the Amorican
authorities as roflected in thoso communications and in the
reports madc to the American Government had beon consistont-
ly rostrained and roesonable, but that, while not undertaking
to expross an opinion with regard to tho attitudo of the
Japanese authorities, the Americen Government hed notod with
regret thet the tone of and the languege usod in some of the
Jepanese conmunications wes of ε cheracter tonding to nullify
efforts to offect a local settloment of the incident. It wes
pointcà out that should no basis exist upon which locel
adjustment of such incidents could bs oxpocted, it would bc
necessary to tako up the questions through diplomctic chan-
nels which oftentimos medo settlemont more difficult. Mr.
Grew went on to point out thet the Minister for Foreign
Affairs vith his knowledge of the American people, should
realizo the unfortunete effect upon American public opinion
which
*Department's telegrams Nos. 297, August 1, noon, and 286,
July 31. Embassy's telegrams Nos. 650, August 2, 5 p.m.;
661, August 3, 5 p.m.; 671, August 7, 7 p.m.; 678, August
9, midnight; 718, August.20, 8 p.m.; Embassy's despatches
Nos. 4916, August 14, 1940; 4934, August 22, 1940.

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
which would inevitably result should the language used by the
Japcnese authorities in Shanghai in eddressing Americen of-
ficicls become known to the Americen public. The Ambassador
emphasized thet as hed already been publicly steted by the
Secretary of Stete, the Americen Government desired that a
locel settlament be reeched and perceived no recson why the
communicction of Admirel Glessford on July 29 to General
Fujitc should not setisfcctorily close the incident.
The Ambassador impressed upon the Ministor for Foreign
Affeirs the reeson:ble cnd restreined ettitude of tho Ame-
ricen suthorities in contrast with the attitude of the
Japeneso authorities and impressed upon the Llinister the
importance of considering the incident closed. Mr. Matsuoka
agrecd entirely with the desirability of recching a locel
settlement cnd scid that he would immediately mako offorts
in that direction. In explanation of the lengucge employed
by tho Japanoso authoritics, the Minister for Foroign Af-
fairs expressed the opinion thet it was probcbly due entirely
to langucge difficulties end said that Japenese officicls
ofton write in bombastic style which when conveyed in Japc-
nese ccrriod littlc meaning but when translated into English
might convey an excegerated impression. The Imbessedor
replied that certcin expressions used by the Japeneso were
entiroly too definite cnd diroct to be minimized by the
Minister's explenation.
During the Ambessador's call on tho Minister for
Foreign Affairs on enother subject on August 7, Mr. Matsuoka
referred to the approach mede by the Ambessador on August
3 and said that ho was informed that although complote sot-
tlemont

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
tloment of the incident hed boon reached in conversations
between Colonel Peck and Major Generel Miura on August 1
and 2, nd although they hed becn on tho point of signing,
word had been recoived from the Dopartmont of Stste that
the question was being taken up diplomaticclly εt Tokyo
and that it was therefore nocessary that the locel sottle-
ment be deleyod. The fribassedor repliod that thero must
bo c complete misunderstending because in his roprosenta-
tions he had impressed upon tho Minister for Foreign
Affeirs the importence of rerching e locnl sottlement and
hed in offect merely asked the Ministor to "oil tho wheels".
Mr. Matsuoka egroed and said this was also his understand-
ing and expressed the hope that appropriate explanations
would result in an early closing of the incident. The
Ambassador agreed to telegraph immediately to the Depert-
ment of State and to the Consul General at Shanghai.
On August 9 and again on August 20 members of the
Embassy were informed by the Foreign Oflice that according
to reports from the Japanese authorities at Shanghai they
were still under the impression thet the American authorities
there were acting under instructions which prevented the
acceptence of the settlement agreed upon by Admirel Glassford
and Commander Kuwabata. The Embassy continued to emphasize
that a local settlement was desired. The incident was not
the subject of further conversations at Tokyo during the
month of August.
(b)

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
(b) Shanghai Defensc Sector.*
Conformably with te Department's instructions, the
Eabassy on August 15 approached the Foreign Office with
the request that the representetions made be brought promptly
to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In
these ropresentations it was stated that the United States
Government had been informed that there would take place
on August 15 e moeting of the interested commanders at
Shenghai to consider revision of the defenso soctors with
regard to the offer of the Commender of the Americcn Marine
forcos there to take ovor the defense soctors then cssigned
to the British forces. The hope nd expectation of the
Americon Government was expressed that a new crrengement of
the defense sectors would be worked out in a spirit of good
will and cooperation, conformably with tho principles under-
lying the internetional character of the Sotilement and
with practicel considerations.
Shortly after these representations had been delivered
to the Foreign Ofrice a member of the Enbsssy staff was
requested to call and it was explained that the Jrpanese
Goveruent was displeased that Colonel Peck hea ruguested
the calling of the meeting on August 12 end hed proposed
thet the American forces take over the defense of the sectors
assigned to the Britisn forces. Surprise w::s expressed that
such action had been taken in disregerd of Jepanese protests
of the short notice which had been given and the Japanese
opinion
*Department's tolegram No. 362, August 13, 3 p.m., to Shanghai;
Imbassy's telegrams Nos. 700, August 15, 1 p.m.; 701, August
15, 6 p.m.; 705, August 16. Department's 313, August 17, 2
p.m. Imbassy's Nos. 709, August 18, 5 p.m.; 710, August 18,
6 p.m.; 711, August 19, noon, 717, August 20, 7 p.m.; 719,
August 20, 11 p.m. Department's 319, August 21, 6 p.m.
mbassy's 743, August 24, 4 p.m.; 749, August 26, 3 p.m.
Department's 321, August 23, 6 p.m.; Imb. 756, Aug. 20, 11 p.m.
Department's 326, August 28, 7 p.m.; 328, August 29, 7 p.m.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
opinion that such a meeting should heve been convened by Rear
Admiral Takeda as the senior officer at Shenghai.
The
Foroien cffice official wont on to inguiro whsther the oral
statement which had been delivered by the Febessy was meant
to convey the approvel of tho Anerican Govornment of Colonel
Peck's action and to be diplonatic intervention to otjain
agroement on the basis of the proposal made at the meeting on
August 12.
Mr. Crocker, First Secretary of Embassy, replied that
the oral representetions were in no sense diplomctic inter-
vention but wero meroly an official expression of hopo and
expoctation thet en agreoment would be rocched in the spirit
end on the besis indiccted in those representation.
The
Foreign Office official replied that no instrucrions had
been sent to the Jepanese authorities in Shanghai but the
result of the meeting of August 15 would be sw ited, but
cleerly indicated thet the American propos:ls would not be
ecceptable and that rovision of the defensc sectors at
Shenghai would have to bo rocched "in the light c the now
existing conditions in Shanghei end in the Fer East".
Conformably with the Dopertment's instructions received
on Sundcy afternoon, August 18, tho Embassy immediatoly
epprocched the Foroign Offico, roquosting that tho mossegc be
conveyed urgontly to the Minister for Foreign Affeirs as
coming directly from the Ambassador, and stated that the
Government of the United States approved the plen for the
United States forccs to take over Sector B at Shanghai and
hoped thet the Japanese Govarnment would give at least its
tentative

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
tentative approvel and would not oppose tho teking over of
Soctor B, by the United States forces pending final decision
rogarding the metter. It was pointed out that the Americen
Government considered the plen end procodure ontirely reason-
eble end hoped that the Japaneso Govornmont would teke the
same view. The Foreign Office official approached while
stating that he was speaking without authority end giving
merely his own opinion, scid that he did not believe the
Japanese Government would consider even tentativo approval
of tho occupation of Sector B by Americen forccs. He
requested that the Embessy telegraph urgently and ndvise that
no Imerican forces bo movod into Defense Sector B following
withdrcwel of the British troops. He indiccted thet such c
move woula be opposod by the Japcnese forces. The private
views of this officiel were a short time later confirmed by
the Minister for Foreign Affcirs. The Embcssy wes also
informed that the Minister could not understend tho recsons
for the procipitste cction in this mettor by the Americen
Governmont.
On tho following day, as instructed by tho Department,
the Embassy informod the Foreign Office thct the American
Government in a desiro to recch an enicablo end equitable
sottlenent of the question wcs preparod to postpone temporerily
the occupction of Sector B pending the outcomo of discussions
with the Jepaneso Govornnent. The Forcign Office was also
inforned that the United Stetes Navy Dopartrent wes suggost-
ing to Adniral Hart that ho cndoavor to have tho Shanghai
Volunteor Corps take over the dofense of Sector B as a transi-
tory measuro.
The

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
The Foreign Offico expressed its gratificction at the
decision to postpone the occupation of Sector B and addod
that the Japanose Govornment wes also of the opinion that
this question wcs susceptible of cmiceblo cnd equiteble
settlement. In roply to the Foreign Office's question
whether this matter wes to becomo e subject for diplometic
discussions botween the Japeneso end American Governments
or whether conversetions looking to its sottlement would
continue to bo held locslly at Shanghai, it wcs stated that
in the Embcssy's opinion there was no intontion to interfere
with continued discussions for & local settlement at Shanghai.
On August 20 the Embassy received fron the Foreign
Office c docunent nurked "oral" in vhich ths Japanosc Govern-
ment expressed satisfaction et having been informod of the
hope and expectetion of the Americen Govornment that in a
spirit of cooperation end good will c new arrengement of the
defense sectors at Shanghei woula be worked out. The Jepanese
Government was said to shere this sene hope and expectation.
The attitude and actions of tho Amorican cuthoritios ct
Shenghai did not, however, in the opinion of the Jepanese
Government conforn entirely to thet spirit. Reference wcs
mcde particulerly to tho celling of e meeting on August 12
by the Americen Commencent without any prelininary oxchcnge
of views; to the clloged rofusel on lugust 15 of Colonel Peck
to explain the motivos behina his proposcl to the Japanese
Commandnnt and to thc disregerding of the opposition of
Jepanese mombors by the Amorican cnd British members of tho
Shanghai Municipal Council in voting support of the proposal
to

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
to which the Japanese Commandant had not consented. The
statement went on to say that the Japanese authorities in
Shanghai had from the beginning acted in a spirit of coopera-
tion and good will end had been prevented from working out
a fair and reasonable proposal only by the precipitate action
of American authorities in Shanghai. In conclusion, it was
stated that the Japanese Go vernment did not at that moment
consider it necessary that the issue be taken up through
diplomatic channels with the other governments concerned.
On August 27 the Ambassador in an interview with the
Minister for Foreign Arfairs made renewed representations in
the matter of the Shanghai Defense Sectors along lines in
conformance with the Dopartment's instructions. The opinion
was expressod that the American Governmont, unless the Japa-
nose military authoritios at Shanghai should decide to re-
consider their position with respect to the proposal for
reallocation of the ssctors upon the basis recommended by
the Defense Committee and approvod by the Shanghai Municipal
Council, would seem to have no alternative to presenting its
views to the Japanese Govornment. The Ambassador pointed out
that in the opinion of the American Governmont the proposal
that the Shanghai Volunteer Corps be pormanently chargod with
special protection of Section B was not practicable in viow
of the special cherecter of the Volunteer Corps. The Ambassa-
dor wont on to say that the Amoricen Government attaches im-
portance to tho reasonable position taken by tho majority of
the Defense Committee and by the Shanghei Municipal Council
in allocating Soctor D to tho Japanese forces and Sector B
to the Amorican foroes. Mr. Grew emphasized thet the United
Statos

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
States Governmont was of the opinion that all parties having
legitimate interests in the International Settlement should
support and maintain the international character of that
Settlement. The Ambassador at some length elaborated upon
the cosmopolitan nature of Shanghai and the existence there
of a multiplicity of rights and interests of inevitable con-
cern to many countries. Mr. Grew further pointed to the
necessity of members of the Shanghai Municipal Council
avoiding any involvement in controversial matters arising
from causes outside the Settlement boundaries. He went on
to say that no one Power having interests in the Settlement,
no matter how uxtensivo they might be, should, because of
developments which have their origin elsewhere, assert a
position which would tend to proscribe or destroy the interna-
tional character of the Settlement.
Reference was made by the Ambassador to the extensive
American intorosts in the areas which it had been proposed
should bo taken over by the American forcus following tho
evacuation of the British. Tho Americen Government, the
Ambessador said, considered the solution thus proposed and
votod by the majority to be in harmony with the principles
underlying the international cheracter of the Settloment.
The Ambessador loft an informal momorandum with the
Minister for Foreign Affeirs of the above obsorvations and
wont on to tell the Minister orelly end informally thet
the American Government considered it important that a solu-
tion be reachod by agreenent upon an equitable errangoment;
that any other procedure or arrangoment would raise very
serious questions requiring the American Government to
roviso

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
revise the lines of its policy with regard to the protection
of American interests in China, The American Government, for
example, would be compelled to corsider making public a full
exposition of the situation. Suen publication would inevitably
call into question the policy of patience which the American
Government would be required to re-examine the many benefits
which have been extended to Japanese commerce and nationals
in the United States to make the treatment of that commerce
and those nationals more nearly reciprocal with the treat-
ment being given by Japanese authorities to American commerce
and nationals in China.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed to do his best
to bring about an amicable and equitabla settlement of the
controversy and expressed the opinion that the difficulty
was partly owing to the fact thet Japanese military author-
ities were of the opinion that American proposals to take over
the sectors had been occasioned by "British intrigue" and
those military authoritios regarded Sector B as of groetor
importance than Soctor D. The conversation continued for
over an hour.
There were no further developmonts rogarding this
question during the month of August.
(c) Arrest of Associated Press Correspondent,
Mr. Relman Morin.*
Mr. Morin, Associated Press correspondent, Tokyo, was
arrested by the Gendarmerie on the afternoon of July 3l and
was released early in the morning of August 1. In discussing
his arrest with members of the Embassy, Mr. Morin said that
the questioning concerned primarily press reports which he
had
*Mabassy's telegrams Nos. 638, August 1, 10 a.m.; 641, August
1. 6 p.m.; 652, August 2, 8 p.m.; 653, August 2, 9 p.m.;
Bempatoh No. 4954, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
had sent concerning the large-scale arrests of British
subjeots in Japan. Certain of these reports were alleged by
the gendarmerie to heve been false and to have represented
"irresponsible reporting". The gendermerie referred in parti-
cular to two despatchos which had been lsbcled es "uncon-
firmed reports" to the effect th:t sixteen persons had been
arrested and thet two were Americens. The officors seemed
to resent strongly what they characterized as Morin's ir-
rosponsibility in neglecting to verify from official Japa-
nese sources, including gendermerie headquarters itself,
certain reports and rumors which he had obtained from foreign
souroes in Tokyo. Mr. Morin roplied thet ho hed learnod from
experience that reference to official Japanose sourcos con-
cerning matters under a pross ben was useless.
Although Domoi Nows Agency issued a report shortly
after ten o'clock in the evening that Mr. Morin had been
released by the gendermerie following his submission of an
apology for submitting orroneous reports, Mr. Morin was in
fact not released until ono o'clock boccuse he refusod to sign
a statement in Jepanese which, when interpreted to him, ap-
parently contained stetements which he hed not made and which
he wrs unwilling should be attributed to him. Mr. Morin
indicated that in his opinion the gondarmerie fearod the
offect on public opinion in the United States of his reports
and therefore wished him to sign on apology and to reveal
the souroos of his information. He mainteinod that he stead-
fastly avoided reveeling any confidentiel sources but that he
did sign an apology for sending the two abovo-mentioned un-
confirmed reports. Mr. Morin stated thet "hours" were
dovoted

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
devoted to inconsequential and extraneous matters and that
although he was informed he was being treeted as leniently as
possirle the experience had been most trying. The method
of the examination and the phrasing of the questions employed
by the gendarmerie were, according to Mr. Morin, of such a
nature as to leave the subject with a feeling of utter hope-
lessness and frustration. He remarked that even after the
comparatively mild experience through which he had gone he
could understand what Mr. Cox, Reuter's correspondent who
committed suicide during examination by the gendarmerie, had
faced and the frame of mind which he had reached.
On August 2 all vernacular newspapers published what
was apparently an inspired story attacking the British
Imbassy as being the source of erroneous reports sent to the
United States by the Associated Press and expressing sympathy
for the fact that Mr. Morin had been hoodwinked" by his
sources of information. The press went on to interpret this
alleged disclosure of the British Embassy as the source of
misinformation as evidence that the British Embassy itself
may be the heart of British espionage against Japan". Almost
all newspapers including the ASAHI, NICHI NICHI and HOCHI
printed a practically identical warning that the authorities
would take *resolute action" against any foreign correspondent,
irrespeotive of nationality should he be guilty of making
false reports or sending "malicious propaganda" against Japan.
This warning was interpreted by an American correspondent as
indioating that foreign correspondents who sent reports on
the basis of information from sources other than Japanese
official would be subject to the accusation that they were
gu11ty

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
guilty of distorting facts and puolishing "malicious propa-
ganda*. If rigorously enforoed this might meon that foreign
correspondents vould be unable to operste in Jepan ithout
grave personal acner.
(a) merican representations concerning French
Inão-China.*
As instructed by the Departnent, the Ambsssedor, on
August 6, called on the ilinister for Foreign 'ffeirs and
brought to the latter's attention the reports hich vere
circulating thct Japen had "lade secret demen's of Frence
in regard to French Indo-China. The Ambossador referred to
Secretary of State's statements of April 17 ond ay 11 in
hich were set forth the belief of the Covernnent of the
United States th:t intervention in domestic affairs of the
Netherlonds Indies by other than peaceful processes vould
be prejucicial to the cause of stability, reace end security
not only in thct re ion but in the entire P'scific area end
emphasized that thet belief enc observetion naturelly apply
also to French Indo-China since the ststements contcined
the Americcn Government's observation that its belief wss
based upon & coctrine having universel applicction cnd for
vhich the United States une uivocs ly stands. The .'mbassedor
conveyed to the Minister for Foreign Affcirs, as under in-
structions, the concern of the Government of the United Stetes
with regard to the cevelopments revorted. The Minister re-
plied that (1) he desired to reserve corment; (2) thet certain
demanas
*Derertment's telecrem No. 293, Aurust 6, 1 .m. mbassy's
telegram Nos. 672, jugust 7, 10 p.m.; 673, ucust 8, 2 n.m.;
697, August 13. Despatch No. 4935, August 22, 1940.

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
demands had been made on French Indo-China but that he could
not disclose their prec:se nature, and (3) that the various
points in a recent NEW YORK TIMES article were in some in-
stances highly exaggerated and in others entirely devoid of
any foundation. In strict confidence the Minister told the
Ambassador the French Government had already accepted in
principle the Japanese demands.
(e) Reaction in Japan to the American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.*
There was considerable editorial commont following the
conclusion of the joint defense agreement between the United
States and Canada. The ASAHI of August 20 similar to other
vernacular newspapers stated that the action was a logical
stop and not unexpected but urged that whilo the agreement
had no direct or immediate relationship with Japan, it was
nevertheless necessery for Japan to watch carefully tho
diplomatic activities of the United States and of Soviet
Russia in the drastic and rapidly changing world conditions.
The HocHI asserted that the agreemont affected not only
the Atlantic but also the Pacific, the West Pacific and the
Continents of Australia, East Asic and Europe. It was pre-
dicted thet e similar egreement uniting tho American cnd
Australien Continents might be concluded in the future. The
HoCHI went on to say thet it was nov necossary for the Japa-
nese Government and tho Jepenese people to exert every offort
to ecquire and ostablish the "grecter East Asie mutucl prospe-
rity sphero.
On August 22 all vernaculer newspapers commentod on the
report thet Greet Britain would lease naval beses in the
Western
*mmbessy's tolegrcm No. 716, August 20; 732, August 22, 6 p.m.;
754, August 27, 4 p.m.; 764, August 30, 4 p.m.; 741, August
24, 2 p.m.; 765, August 30, 5 p.m.

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Western Hemisphere to the United States.. The press was in
most cases not radical . r inflammatory in its reaction
but was unanimously firm in the conviction that close rela-
tions between the United States and Great Britain might
seriously affect Japan. It was reported that the United
States and Great Britain were planning to change the status
quo of certain Pacific areas through the leasing or transfer
of actual or possible naval bases to the United States and
alleged that there existed a secret treaty between Great
Britain and the United Stetes for the use of Singapore by
the latter country. All newspapers concluded that Japan
must give the most serious attention to all possible eventuali-
ties which might follow the American-British negotiations.
Throughout the month of August there continued to appear
from time to time in the vernacular press articles emphasizing
the seriousness to Japan of continued development of possiblo
military cooperation between the United States and England.
(f) More Important Representations by the Embassy.*
During the month of August the Embassy formally pro-
tested to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs bombings of certain
properties in China. Representations wore also made con-
cerning the proposed establishment of a regular steamship
service to Sharp Peak, China, for the benefit of the foreign
community there. A strong protest was medo to the Foroign
Orfice during August concerning tho interference of Japanese
military euthorities in Canton with the Southern Baptist
Mission
*Embassy's tolegram Nos. 702, August 16, 11 a.m.; 738, August
24, 10 a.m.; Dapartment's telegram No. 315, August 19, 6 p.m.

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Mission Hospital et that place.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
1. Arrest of British subjects iu Tapen ani Japanese
subjects in British Empire.*
On August 3 all the vernacular newspapers in Tokyo
issued extra editions reporting the arrest of prominent
Japanese in London. This action was considered by the press
to be entirely retaliatory for the arrest of British subjects
in Japan. This original announcement was followed by more
elaborate comment in the press curing the following few days.
The Japanese arrested were said to be prominent businessmen
above any possible suspicion of espionage. Some journals
went so far as to characterize the Blitish acticn as barberous
and illegal. Fear was expressed conccrning the possibility
394.4121
of a grave crisis in Anglo-Japanese rolations shouid the
question be not promptly settled, and some newspapers even
suggested the nocessity of taking positive measures against
Great Britain. In spito of these instances of somewhat violent
language the goneral undortone of the press was, in fact,
weak. On August 5 the Embassy was informed that three pro-
minent British citizens who had been arrestod in Kobe were
allowed to return home. Owing to the fact that some of the
British nationals arrested in Japan might have been in a
position to inform the British authorities concerning actual
transshipments
*Brbassy's telograms Nos. 644, August 1, 9 p.m.; 645, August
1, 10 p.m.; 646, August 1, 11 p.m.; 655, August 3, noon;
B€5, August 5, 6 p.m.; 666, August 5, 7 p.m.; 670, August
7. 6 p.m.; 691, August 12, 7 p.m.; 728, August 21, 11 p.m.;
706, August 16, 7 p.m.; despatoh No. 4950, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
transshipments of essential materiels, such as tin end rubber,
from Japan to Germany via Siberia, some observers were of
the opinion that these arrests were in some measure at least
the result of German instigation. On August 12 there was
held a "down with Britain" mass meeting sponsored by the
Tokyo anti-British Citizens League composed largely of
members of the Tokyo Municipal Assembly. The press reported
that representatives came from six major cities and more than
30 smaller cities and that the meeting was attended by
thousands of individuals.
Various declarations and resolutions were adopted de-
manding the withdrawal of Great Britein from the Fer East,
encouraging the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Wer, Navy
and Foreign Affairs to take strong action and urging the
strengthening of the Japan-Gormany-Italy axis. The meeting
was held in the public hall at Hibiya Park and the generel
erea in the neighborhood was carefully policed by hundreds
of uniformed policemen before the opening of the meeting
which was on the whole orderly and undemonstrctive. Thore
was no march on the British Embassy. This meeting in Tokyo
marked the climax of a series of anti-British meetings which
had been held throughout the Jcpenese Empire following the
arrest of Jepenose nationcls by British authorities and
was openly pro-mxis with the public hall and the entrances
to the Perk decorated with the three flags of Japan, Germany
and Italy.
Following this demonstration howevor, open expression
of anti-British sentiment noticeably subsidod throughout the
country and there were no further public demonstrations
during tho month of August.
on

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
On August 16 the Bureau of Criminal Affairs in the
Ministry of Justice issued a verbal statement concerning
the death of the former Reuter news correspondent at Tokyo,
Mr. Cox. This statement asserted that it had been establi-
shed that Mr. Cox committed suicide, that he had left a will
written the morning of his death, that qualified medical
examination revealed no evidence of any mistreatment end,
finally, that among Mr. Cox's papers there had been found
much material supporting the charges of espionage.
The Embassy was informed toward the end of August that
the Minister for Foreign Affairs had given assurances that
he would endeavor in an approach to the Minister of War to
expedite investigations of all British subjccts remaining
under detention. There were, however, no further dovelop-
ments of interest during the month of August.
(2) Withdrawal of British military garrisons at
Shanghai, Peiping and Tiontsin.*
On August 10 the British Embassy delivered to the
Foreign Office a notification that British troops which had
been maintained in China at Shanghai, Peiping and Tientsin
would be withdrawn. The British Government reserved all its
treaty rights under the Poiping Protocol of September 7, 190l.
The reaction in the vernacular press following the announce-
ment of the British Government's intention to withdraw its
forces in China was distinctly unfavorable to Great Britain.
It was characterized as a futile gesturo in an attempt to
improve Anglo-Japanese relations end simultanoously to
strongthen
mbassy's telegrams 679, August 10, 11 a.m.; 684, August
11; 712, August 19, 4 p.m.

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
strengthen British colonial garrisons. The press stated
that Great Britain couli not expect to improve its rela-
tions with Japan until and unless that country fully re-
cognized the new order in East Asia and cocperated posi-
tively with Japan. The press was also very suspicious con-
cerning the United States and stated that some prior under-
standing between the United States and Great Britain had
probably been reached.
On August 19 the vernacular press stated that as it
had previously predicted and subsequent events had establi-
shed, the British withdrawal of troops from China was only
an expedient measure designed to ameliorate anti-British
sentiment in Japan and to ease the strain of Anglo-Jepanese
relations. Subsequent events, it was reported, had verified
the accuracy of previously expressed suspicion that a secret
understanding had been reached between the United States and
Great Britain. The vernacular press went on to assert that
the responsibility for the preservation of peace and order
at Shanghai lay with the Japanese forces there and that there
was no legal foundation of the stationing of foreign troops
at Shanghai. It was said that the Japaneso forces intended
to take o ver the general defense of the Internetional Settle-
ment only until such time as the "National Government" at
Nanking wes able to perform those functions.
During the month of August the British Embassy made
representations to the Japanese Government concerning re-
ported demands by Japan against French Indo-Chine
and

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
and concerning the trade control regulations in North China
which were put into effuct during August.
(b) The Netherlands East Indies.*
On August 3 it was reported in the press that General
Koiso, former Minister of Overseas Affairs in the first
Konoye Cabinet (1937-1938) had been offered the position
of official delegate from the J apanese Government to the
Netherlands East Indies and that he would be given broad
powers and the highest rank. The purpose of General Koiso's
mission was said to be to establish the closest political
and economic relations between the two areas on the basis
of mutual interest and position within the sphere of greater
East Asia. At the same time certain newspapers reported
that while en route to Tokyo General Koiso had stated, inter
alia, Japan China and Manchukuo" alone were insufficient for
the construction of an economic zone in Greater East Asia;
that it was necessary to include the South Seas area; that
from a moral viewpoint the freeing of the Oriental races was
necessary and was destined or realization; that the Nether-
lands Indies had long been exploited as a colony and had been
subjected to "administrative pressure". General Koiso en-
visaged the possibility of friction with the United States
in the oxecution of this program and said that Japan's re-
solute determination was required.
On August 5 the vernacular press gave considerable
prominonco
*Embassy's telegrams 657, August 3; 664, August 5; 687, August
12, 3 p.m.; 690, August 12, 6 p.m.; 693, August 12; 696,
August 13, 6 p.m.; 698, August 14; 713, August 19; 745,
August 24, 7 p.m.; 750, August 26, 5 p.m.; 761, August 28,
9 p.m.; 762, August 29, 5 p.m.; Despatches Nos. 4915, August
14, 1940; and 4975, September 14, 1940.

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
prominence to remarks attributed to General Koiso. He
was reported to have said that prior to economic coopera-
tion between the Netherlands East Indies and Japan it would
be necessary to clarify the political aspects of the question
which would involve third Powers, particularly Germany,
England and the United States. As a prerequisite to this
clarification, General Koiso was said to be of the opinion
that it would be necessary for Japan definitely to decide
its attitude toward those countries. He asserted that Japen
was morally justified in extending aid to areas which have
lost their "overlords". It was pointed out that France and
the Netherlands had capitulated to Germany. General Koiso
went on to say that the areas to the south of Japan could
replace European and American sources of materials.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the Nether-
lands Government believed, and had so informed the Foreign
Office, that the remarks attributed to General Koiso by the
press, unless retrected, would make his position, should he
be sent to the Netherlands Ecst Indies, "very difficult",
by which it was implied that it would bo "impossible". The
Embassy wes also confidentially informed that unless a re-
traction of these remarks was published that Government would
not accept General Koiso as & Japaneso delogate. Further
progress in the selection of a delegato to the Netherlands
East Indies was for some time unnoticeablo, but on August 14
tho press reported that General Koiso would not consider ac-
cepting the position unless he were given the broadest powers
and unless negotiations were not restricted to trade in
economic

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
economic matters.
The appointment of the Minister of Commeree and Industry,
Mr. Kobayashi, as the chief of a special mission to the Nether-
lands East Indies was announced on August 24. It was also
reported that Mr. Kobayashi would retain his cabinet port-
folio and that the mission would leave at the earliest pos-
sible date. Two days later the spakesman of the Foreign
Office was reported to have said that there had been no change
in the attitude of the Japaneso Government from that oxpressed
in a statement issued by the Yonai Cabinet concerning the
status guo of the Netherlends East Indies and added that the
appointment of Mr. Kobayashi was merely to expedite the ne-
gotiations already undortaken. Among tho members of the
mission as finally announccd by the Japanese Government were
so-called technical experts from the Foreign Office, Cabinet
Planning Board, Finance Ministry, War Ministry, Navy Ministry,
Commerce and Industry Ministry and the Ovorseas Ministry.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the accept-
ance of this mission by the Netherlands Government was not
asked, and that the Netherlands Government had merely been
informed thet the mission was being sont.
(c) Russia*
Press comment in Japan upon a speech by Commissar for
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Molotcv, given on August 1, was reserved
761.94
but in general friendly in reaction. The vernaoular press
insisted that as a prime requisite for improvoment in Russian-
Japanese relations it would be necessary for Russia to give
serious consideration to the cessation of assistance to the
Chiang Kai-shek Government. Adjustment of Russo-Japanese
reletions
*mmbcssy's telegroms Nos. 662, August 3; 740, August 24, 1 p.m.;
746, August 25, 3 p.m.; 748, August 26, 2 p.m.; 751, August 26,
6 p.m.; Derpctches Nos. 4968, September 12;cnd 4967, Septomber
11, 1940.

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
relations was also said to be in some measure dependent upon
the attitude of Russia toward other world Powers. The
prospects for the adjustment of those relations were said
to be more cheerful but that certain aspects of Soviet Russia's
demands were still unacceptable to Japan.
The Embassy was informed by a strictly confidential
source on August 25 that the Minister for Foreigr Affairs
had said that h had long been an advoeate of rapprochement
between Japan and Soviet Russia and that he still favored
a non -aggressio n pact between that country and Japan. He
was, however, pessimistic concerning the long term of Russo-
Japanese relations. The Minister expressed the opinion that
such difficulties as those over the oil concessions in..
Saghalien would not be settled permanently and that an
eventual conflict between the two countries was inevitable.
He asserted, however, that if Russia and Tapan were able to
compose their differences the Japenese position in the Far
East would become much easier. The Embassy learned at the
same time that the Minister was dissatisfied with Ambassador
Togo's mission at Moscow and that he intended to replace him
with General Tatekawa.
It was reported in the press on August 26 that following
six meetings of the international commission beginning on
August 3 agreement had been reached between Outer Mongolia
and Manchukuo" regarding the border demarcation. The report
added that the commission members were then engaged in
physically marking the border.
(d) French Indo-China.*
On August 7 the ASAHI and other important vernacular
nerspapers
*mabassy's telegrams Nos. 669, August 7, 5 p.m.; 676, August
9. 1 p.m.; 680, August 10, 4 p.m.; 685, August 11; 771,
Agust 31, 8 p.m.

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
newspapers devoted considerable attention to a Domei despatch
from Canton said to be a quotation from tho roport of a
genoral staff momber of tho Japanose Army in South Ciina
following an inspection of tho actual conditions in French
Indo-China. This roport stated inter alia that the friend-
ship of the Fronch Indo-Chineso Govornment for Jcpen was only
superficial and tomporcry, thct J:pan would not bo deccived
by tho cttitudo of that Govornment, cnd that should the Govorn-
ment of Fronch Indo-Chin: tcke ny ction based upon : misccl-
cul tion of its own strongth "futuro h-rm would rosult."
On August 9 tho Ambrssrdor w-s informcd in strict con-
fidonco by an uthentic sourco th-t & Jrp noso Army Strff
officor who hod boon holding convors tions with the Govornor
Goner:l of Fronch Indo-China hd modo cortrin milit ry domands
to tho Govcrnor long thc linos roported in the pross corly in
August -- right of trcnsit of troops, occup tion of irdromos,
otc.
Ecrly in August tho somo dcm nds woro convcyed to the
Fronch Ambrssador in Tokyo by thc Ministor for Forcign Aff irs.
The Ministor for Forcign Aff-irs t the s mo time cmphasized
that Jepon is prrticul:rly intorostod in Indo-Chino from an
oconomic point of view. Thoso qucstions worc roforrod to
tho Fronch Governmont at Vichy cnd simultncously convorsctions
continucd in Fronch Indo-Chinr. On August 10 it was roported
in the verncculcr pross thrt Gonoral Nishihara who hrd re-
turnod to Tokyo following convorsctions with tho Govornor
Gonoral of Fronch Indo-Chinn had again crrivod at H-no1 and
that

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
that it was expected that negotiations would make rapid pro-
gress. The article alleged that the United States was en-
gaged in obvious attempts to disrupt negotiations between
Japan and French Indo-China. On August 1l the NICHI NICHI
gave considerable prominence to a special despatch from
Berlin reporting that the German Government was paying care-
ful attention to the question of French Indo-China and its
relations with Japan. It was asserted that Germany would
unhesitatingly decline to take an attitude of opposition to
Japan and that Japan and Germany on the occasion of the
opening of the large-scale attack against England would
swiftly conclude an agreement concerning the new orders of
each country and would endeavor to accomplish a "lightning
diplomatic victory". No settlement of this question and no
conclusion to negotistions in French Indo-China were announced
during the month of August.
(e) Latin America.*
There appeared in the press about the miadle of August
an announcement that, on the basis of recommendations drefted
at the conference of leading Japanese diplomats to South
America and Central Americ& held in Rio de Janeiro in May
and that owing to the conclusion of foreign trade experts
that expension of economic activities including industrial
investments end finencial cccommodctions in South cnd Central
America was urgently necesscry, the Ministry of: Foreign
Affairs had given careful study to the question of establish-
ing e permenent organization designed to expand trcdo with
those areas. The organization would, in cddition to of-
ficials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, include repre-
sentatives
mmb. Tologrem No .704, Aug 16, 6 p.m.; dospatch No. 4870,
Ju1y 24, 1940.

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
sentatives from other important Government ministries. The
Vice Minister for Foreigr Affeirs would, it was said, act as
Chairman.
(f) China.
1. Military Operations in China.
Japanese military operations in China during the month
of August, with the exception of aerial cperations, were on
the whole limited to what were characterized as "mopping up"
expeditions. More important fighting took place in Central
Hopei and Eastern Shansi in which areas well coordinated and
quite effective raids on railways were conducted by the Chinese
Eighth Route Army. According to Japanese announcements "mopping
up" operations against those units of the Eighth Route Army
793.94
countinued throughout the month of August.
In northeastern Anhwei Province the Japanese Army also
carried out operations against Chinese guerilla forces opera-
ting in that general district.
Naval landing parties during the month of August carried
out a series of minor raids along the South Chino Coast.
These Japanese marine forces did not attempt to occupy any
territory but merely landed and in raids destroyed some supplies
and then withdrew.
Both the Japanese Army and Navy air arms continued their
long: distanco raids on Chungking and other points in Szechuan
Province. In addition to these long-range aorial bombing
oporations, the Army air forccs bombed the communicetions
lines in Kwangsi Province.
The
Prepared with tho assistance of the office of tho Military
Attaché.

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Tho naval aerial forces diroctod bombing raids against
the Chokiang-Kiengsi Railway.
III. INTERNAL PCLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Government cnnouncements concerning High
Policy.*
Thc press had for some time anticipetod an announce-
mont in which tho Japanese Government would clarify high
policy, and on August lst the Cabinet did issue such a
stctement. The stctement in summery wos to the effoct
thnt it was urgently nocessery for Japen ot tho "historic
turning point in world cffeirs" to effect with grect spoed
"fundamental renovations" in all lines of governmont and to
strive for the perfoction of a stete structure for national
dofenso of the highest order. The first step in Japan's
policy looking to the ostablishmont of stable world peaco was
to be to create "a now order in Greater East Asia on the
foundation of solidarity botwoon and among Japan, Manchukuo
and China." With rogard to fo raign policy, the Government's
statement may be quoted as follows: "Japan's foreign policy
which aims ultimately at the construction of a new order
in Greater East Asia will be directed, first of all, to
a complete settlement of the China Affair and the advance-
ment of the national fortune by taking a far-sighted view
of the drastic changes in the international situation and
formulating both constructive and flexible measures." With
regard to internal administration, the Government's state-
ment said that the realization of the following points was
expected:
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 640, August 1, 5 p.m.; 642, August
1, 7 p.m.; 654, August 2; 683, August 11, noon.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
expected:
"(a) renovation of educetion;
(b) establishment of a powerful new political struc-
cture and a qualified control of Government affairs
(this to includo renovation of the Diet and
reformation of bureaucratic and administrative
organs);
3
(c) building of a national defense economy;
(a) renovation of the living mode of the nation and
the maintenance of a standard of living as will
enable tho nation to lead a plain, solid and
vigorous life and to surmount the national crisis
by porsevering truly through years of hardship."
Tho Minister for Foreign Affsirs issued a statoment on
August 1 in which ho urgod national unity with a view to
offecting Jepan's foreign policy which, he said, "at present
is to establish ε groet East Asisn chein of common pros-
pority with the Japan, "Monchukuo" and Chinε group as ono
of the links". Tho Minister also said thet the Japanese
Government should strive with courage and determination to
cchiove its goal "in concert with those friondly Powers
which cro prepcred to cooperate vwith us".
The vernacular press in commenting on the stetements
issued on August 1 was in general .critical and in some
instances cnt gonistic. A further clarific tion of the
Government's views cnd cn expression of concreto measures
which wero to be taken was desired. The YOMTURI interpreted
tho statoments as indiceting thet thore would be c drastic
change in diplomatic policy end that thenceforth Japen
expected to edopt a "strong policy" toward all Powers op-
posing this country.
On August 10 the Minister for Foreign Aff:irs discussed
Jepanese

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
Jepanese foreign policy in gonorclly ebstract torms during
a press interview. He was reported to have described the
complicated international situation as "rich in unforeseen
opportunities" and to have said that it was necessary to
achieve the new internal organization and to realize the
establishment of a "sphere of mutual prosperity in Greater
Bast Asia." As a part of Japan's positive diplomacy the
Minister reportedly stated that Japan would cooperate
actively with friendly nations of a similar mind. Japan's
relations towards the great powers were being carefully
observed and analyzed but the time was said to be then not
opportune to reveal publicly the results of those obeerva-
tions and analyses.
(b) Chenges in Foreign Office and Foreign
Service Personnel.*
Early in August, the appointment of Mr. Chuichi Ohashi,
formerly Counselor to tho Government of "Manchukuo" as Vice
Minister for Foroign Affairs was announced. On August 23
thero appeared in the pross announcements of the rocall of
the great majority of Japanese Ambassadors, Ministers, and
many other high-ranking Japanese Foreign Service officials.
The subject was sensationally treated by the press and was
reported as "an unprecedented and drastic shakeup in Foreign
Service personnel". There was, however, no putright criticism
of the step taken and there were only a few veiled and in-
definite queries as to the advisability of the measure.
It
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 651, August 2, 6 p.m.; 736, August
23, 4 p.m.; 737, August 23, 7 p.m.; 758, August 28, 6 Pom.;
767, August 30, 7 p.m.; 656, August 3; 769, August 31; 770,
August 3, 7 p.m.

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
It was characterized as the first step toward a "renovation
in Japan's diplomatic policy". New "young end vigorous" re-
presertatives of Japan were expected to be appointed not
only from the career service but also from cutside circles.
At the same time reports were heard that many officials
in the Foreign Office would be transferred or would resign.
All newspapers generally agreed that these crastic changes
were decided upon by the Forcign Minister and his Vice
Ministor, Mr. Ohashi, with the assistanco of a few intimate
advisers and that final decision was taken in carefully
guarded secrecy. Mr. Ohashi was quoted by the press as
laughingly announcing that he himself was directly rospon-
sible for the recall orders. The Foreign Office spokesman
was said to have told foreign correspondents that the new
Japanese Ambassador to the United States wculd be appointed
soon and that the changes wore "merely routine". The ep-
pointments of Mr. Toshio Shiratori, formor Imbassedor to
Itely, and well-known cdvocate of close relations with the
Axis Powors, and Ryooi Seito, former Director of tho Com-
mercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, a director of the
South Manchuria Railway Company in 1927, and adviser to the
Commanding Headquarters of the Kwangtung :rmy in 1929, as
diplomatic advisers to the Foreign Office were published in
the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on August 28.
On August 30 further sweeping appointments and transfers
were announced, including the appointment of Mr. Matsumiya
as Ambassador-at-large to the South Seas and India. The
press expected that these reforms would successfully
"eliminate

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
"eliminate traditional diplomats" brought up under the old
school of diplomacy of Japan's economic dependence on Great
Britain and the United States. It was further expected that
young officials in the Foreign Office and Foreign Service
would be given training in nationalistic principles.
At the end of Lugust there were current in Tokyo many
rumors concerning the now Japanese Ambassador to be appoint-
ed to the United States. It was said that the position
had been offered to one or more individuals but that no one
had accopted.
(c) New National Structure.*
On August 28 Prince Konoye issued a statement prior to
the opening of the first session of the Preparatory Com-
mittoe on the establishment of the new structure. This
statement in surmary was as follows:
"If Japan is to bring the China Affair to a
successful conclusion and to tako an active part
in the establishmont of a new world order Japen
must perfect a national defense structure of the
highest degree. The basis of such a structure is
c powerful internal structure. This is indeed a
netionel demand. It is not a domend of a tomporcry
chercoter but of a permanent one. Whether or not
Jepan can ostablish such n strong nationcl structure
will decide the very riso or fall of the netiona.
Among the items to be considered (are) harmonious
cooperation between the High Command and the administra-
tive branch of the Government, the consolidation of
State mechanisms and the heightening of efficiency and
the establishment of a new Parliamentary structure as
an organ for assisting the Throne. The aim of the
new national structure is to unite the total energies
of the state. The organization of the nation must
therefore extend to the economic and cultural spheres.
There must be a solid nation-wide structure in which
all component parts are organized vertically, and
they are also bound together horizontally. A definite
national movement is necessary for the successful
realization of this national structure. Such a
movement
*mbassy's tolograms Nos. 759, August 28, 7 p.m.; 780
August 28, 8 p.m. Dospatch No. 4946, Soptombor 5, 1940.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
movement should spontaneously spring from the people
themselves. If it is planned or guided by the Govern-
ment, or it is given anadministrative structure, it
may hinder the spontaneous manifestation of the people's
energies. The present circumstances, however, do not
allow us to rely only cn the spontaneous develop-
ment of such a movemont. Mercover, agitations from
bolow, aro liable to dcgencrato into factionel strifes
and fail to expand into a roally national movemont. The
Govornment have thus found it nocossary to take posi-
tive steps for fostering and directing this movemont.
This movement is a common undertaking of both the
Government and the people: it is a nation-wide move-
mont to assist the Throne. The new national structure
movement aims at superseding the old party politics
postulated upon liberalism. When such a movement
is led by tho Government itself it cannot in any
sense be a party movement. Noither can it be allowed
to tako tho form of a single party system. No matter
what brilliant results such a system may have reaped
in other lands, it is not acceptable in Japan because
it is contrary to the basic principle of our national
polity of 'One Sovereign over all'. In Japan it
is the privilege of all His Imperial Majesty's
subjects to assist the Throne and that privilege
cannot be monopolized by the power of either a single
individual or a single party. If there should arise
a difference of opinion concerning the assistance
to be offered, the final decision would rest with the
Throne. And once an Imperial decision has been
given, all subjects of the Throne should unite in
obeying His Majesty's word. That is the true essence
of Japanese polity."
Although the sessions of the Preparatory Committee
began there were no significant developments nor was there
any clarification of the "new national structure" during
the month under review.
(a) Organization of the Cabinet Intelligence
Bureau.*
In line with the general tendency in Japan toward a
centralization of control and administration, the proposal
was made in the latter part of August to organize a Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau which would take over, it was report-
ed, the activities of the Army and Navy Intelligence
Bureaus
*Imbassy's telegram No. 723, August 21, 7 p.m.

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.96)
-33-
Bureaus and part of the functions of tho Information Bureau
of the Foreign Office as well as certain intelligence func-
tions of the Homo Office and the Communications Ministry.
The first meeting to docide upon the organization of this
Bureau was held at the officiel residence of the Prime
Minister on August 2l. One of the functions of this bureau,
it was said, would be to oxerciso stricter censorship of
articles appearing in the vornacular prcss. Tho Embassy
had observed during August a growing scercity of political
A
articles end independent editoricl writing on the pert of
the vernecular pross.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
R
Nothing to roport.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
On August 1 an official nnouncemont was medo con-
cerning the new Governmont's bosic economic policies. These
policios included the following objoctives: improvement
of netionel defonse facilities through the cutonomous
development of the economy of the yen-bloc cres; the perfec-
tion of unitery control system of production, distribution
end consumption of important commoditics; tho utilization
of finencicl strength towards tho developmont of the nation'
economic power; cdeptation cnd change of Jcpen's foreign
trade policy to meet the now world situstion; the attain-
mont
*Prepared with the assistance of the Office of the Commeroicl
Attach6.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
ment of self-sufficiency in important daily necessities,
particularly foodstuff:; expansion of heavy industries,
particularly chemical and machine industries; expansion
of communication and transportation facilities and the
establishment of land development plans. These policies
did not represent, on the whole, any significant changes
from previous broad policies announced by the Government
and the general reaction in the press was to emphasize
that the Japanese people desired a program and policies
designed to cope with immediate problems rather than
policies which represented an ideal to be accomplished over
a long period of time.
During the month of August business and industrial
circles in Japan were frankly apprehensive regarding the
futuro course of Government control over their activities
and the possible involvcment with third Powers over the
question of Japanese entrance into French Indo-China. The
share market was generally weak and leading speculative
issues reached their lowest price levels at the end of the
month since the outbreak of the European hostilities.
On August 29 Prime Minister Konoye announced more
rigid price control for the trado in the yen-bloc area, the
extonsion of stricter official control over numerous industries
and tho functions of various trade organizations and businoss
concerns. Immediately after this Government announcement,
shares of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the so-called "barometer"
of the market, dropped from Yon l26 to a record low of Yen
109.
During

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
During August official prices on frosh goods wore
ordored reducod from 20 perccnt to 50 percent bolow the then
prevailine lovels.
Manufacturers of goods which were banned by the "anti-
luxury" logislation of July 7 wer: roportsály facing grave
difficultics sinco no official action lhitd been taken to
finance theso producers through the difficult period of
transition to some industry not banned undor official con-
trol. Partially as & result of this situstion crodit and
colloction conditions worsened during August and tho number
and value of dishonored bills reached the highest levels in
rocent yeers.
Finencial Conditions.
During tho month under reviow the rete of netional
bond absorption was charcctcrized as "poor" -- 71 por cent
as comperod with 104.5 per cent during the month of July.
Averego daily note issuc of the Bank of Jep:n reached
c new high levol during August -- yen 3,329,000.
Whloscle prices were roported to have cdvanccd .1 per
cont over July cnd 7.2 per cont ovor the corresponding month
in 1939. Retcil prices declined .2 per cent from the
previous month, July, but were 13.9 per cent higher then in
August 1939. There woro slight cins in tho living costs of
both laboring cnd salrried clcsses. Shcre prices εveragod a
1.9 porcent gcin over tho month of July cs a result of the
distinct upwcrd trend in tho first-hclf of August but, as
pointod out previously, stock prices declincd sherply toward
the close of August.
Forcign

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
Foreign Trado.
Preliminary returns for foreign trcdo for the Jepenese
Empire during the month of August wero exports Yen 317,693,000;
imports Yen 286,294,000 as compared with July exports Yen
358,292,000; imports Yon 281,598,000,
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISC ELLANEOUS.
On August 24 the Ambassador was informed by a foreign
bishcp of the Protestant Episcopal Church that an under-
standing had been reached between the gendarmerie and the
senior Japanese Bishop, Naide, under which in order to fore-
stall pressure against the church no foreigners would there-
after be allowed to have charge of a diocese or a church in
Jepan and all financial assistence from abroad would be
refused.
This movement ageinst foreign missioncries, it was
believed, resulted from or attitude of the Japanese mil-
1tery authoritios that (a) the Christian Church is dissemina-
ting propagandε fevorable to the United States and Great
Britain which dissemination is contrary to netionel policy
and inimical to Japan, (b) finencial support from abroad
is likely to result in the control hy foroign interest of
Japanese

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
Japenese clergymen receiving such support and (c) all
foreign missionaries are potential spies.
This movement began early in August with the arrest
of the leaders of the Salvation Army. It was reported that
the Methodist Church would be next to be "purged" by the
gendarmerie. Leading missionaries were of the opinion that
this movement would mark the end of missionary activities
in Jap an.
On August 30 there was reported the meeting of 50
representatives of various Christian organizations in
Japan under the chairmanship of Mr. Abe, President of the
Federation of Christian Churches in Japan. The meeting was
called for the purpose of adopting a common policy for
Christian churchos in Japan which would be conformable to
the "new netional structure." It wes reported that
offorts would be made to have the various Christian sots
amalgamate into one organization and that all foreign
assistance and influence would be eliminated from Chris-
tien andeavors. The meeting adjourned without achieving by
concrete results but wes scheduled to be reconvened on
September 2 for further discussions of this question as well
as of Christian missionary activities in Mcnchukuo" end
China.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
August 1940
No.
Date
Subjeot
4876
August 1
American property losses
in China--Settlement of
claims through local ne-
gotiations.
4877
August 1
Dr. Charles L. Gillette,
amoi--Japenese bombing of
property of.
4878
August 1
Seventh Day Adventist Mis-
sion--Japanese bombing in
Chungking.
4879
August 1
Interest of Nenyang Brothers
Tobacco Co., Inc., in certain
properties at Hankow.
4880
August 1
Clipping from The Janan Ad-
vertiser of July 12, 1940,
entitled "U.S. Thought Lager
to Settle Issues".
4881
August 1
Accounting instruction; pay-
ments on Fowers of Attorney
to authorized agents.
4882
August 2
Home leave granted r. Donald
. Lamm, Foreign Service
Officer.
4883
August 2
Covenant issionary Society
at Kiengling (Kingchow)--
Japanese bombing of.
4884
August 3
Diplometic visa report.
4885
August 3
Application by . Dixon
Edwards, Foreign Service Of-
ficer, for third year of
lenguage study.
4886
August 5
Copies of paraphrased tele-
grams, received through the
British Embassy at Tokyo,
reporting the con' ersation
on June 28, 1940, between
the British Ambassedor at
'ashington with the Secretary
of State.
4887
August 5
Visit to Japan of Frofessor
Salvador Lassip, Havana, Cube:
Newspeper clipping reporting
interview with Dr. Wassip.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
4888
August 5
Trae mark protection on
behalf of Greenfield Tap &
Die Corporation.
4889
August 5
Confidential menorandum signed
by Japenese Linister and
Eritish Ambassador regarding
the closure of the Burma Route.
4890
August 5
Three newspaper certoons from
The Jepan Times of July 19,
July 30, and August 2, 1940,
¿evoted to the United States.
4891
August 5
Text of the reply of the
l'etherlands Governnent to the
Jepanese Government's note
Cated June 28, 1940.
4892
¿ugust 6
Transmission of specimen Jape-
nese Tassports.
4893
Aucust 6
Renort received from the Ameri-
can Consulste at Nagoye rela-
ting to the Southward advence
novenent plens of the Japa-
nese Militery.
4894
August 6
Christian and issionary.
Alliance, Luichow--Japanese
boabing of.
4895
AuEust 6
vangelical Lutheran Church
iission, Icheng--Japanese
bonbing of.
4896
Aucust 6
Methodist Episcopal Lission,
Chungking, Jepanese bonbing
of.
4897
August 6
American Bible Society, Chung-
king, bombing of.
4898
Aufust 6
Letters exchsnged in 1917 be-
tween Ir. A. Barton Fepburn,
Baron Eiiohi Shibusawa and
Baron K. Yanagawa, President
of Tokyo Iuperial University
re establishment of hepburn
Professorship.
4899
fugust 6
Cummary of speech delivered
by Count Ilichimasa Soejima,
nember of the House of Peers,
on Jenuary 27, 1934.
4900
August 6
Fall of the Yonai Cabinet and
formation of the second Konoye
Cabinet.

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4888
August 5
Trade mark protection on
behalf of Greenfield Tap &
Die Corporation.
4889
August 5
Confidential menorandum signed
by Japanese Linister and
Eritish Ambassador regarding
the closure of the Burma Route.
4890
August 5
Three newspaper certoons from
The Jepan Times of July 19,
July 30, and August 2, 1940,
¿evoted to the United States.
4891
August 5
Text of the reply of the
Netherlends Government to the
Jspanese Government's note
dated June 28, 1940.
4892
August 6
Transmission of specimen Jape-
nese Tassports.
4893
Aucust 6
Renort received from the Ameri-
can Consulate at Nagoye rela-
ting to the Southward advence
movenent plens of the Japa-
nese lilitary.
4894
August 6
Christian and Lissionary
Alliance, Luichow--Japanese
bonbing of.
4895
August 6
Evangelical Lutheran Church
iission, Icheng--Japanese
bonbing of.
4896
August 6
Methodist Episcopal Lission,
Chungking, Jepanese bonbing
of.
4897
August 6
American Bible Society, Chung-
king, bombing of.
4898
August 6
Letters exchanged in 1917 be-
tween I.r. A. Barton Hepburn,
Baron Eiiohi Shibusawa and
Baron K. Yanagawa, President
of Tokyo Imperial University
re esteblishment of hepburn
Profescorship.
4899
August 6
Cummary of speech delivered
by Count Ilichimasa Soejima,
member of the House of Peers,
on Jenuary 27, 1934.
4900
August 6
Fall of the Yonai Cabinet and
formation of the second Konoye
Cabinet.

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
4901
August 6
Tribute to the late Prince
Iyesato Tokugawa--broadcast
to the United States, July 5,
1940.
4902
August 7
Clipping from the Japan Ad-
vertiser üated July 31, 1940,
entitled Iletanorphosis Seen
in Japanese Ideas".
4903
August 7
léemorandum of conversation be-
tween the Anerican Ambassador,
Ir. Grew, and the Linister for
Foreign Affairs, Lir. Matsuoka,
on July 26, 1940.
4904
August 7
Éeventh Day Adventist Mission,
Chungking, bombing of.
4905
August 8
Exchange of notes between the
French Ambassador and the Japa-
nese Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs relating to the settle-
ment of difficulties involving
the French Concession at
Tientsin.
49C6
August 8
Lutheren United Lission, Chu-
matien, bombing of.
4907
August 8
Request of Sir George Sansom
for auvice concerning a visa
for entrance into the United
States.
4908
August 8
Clipping from The Japan Times,
fugust 5, 1940, entitled
"Realism Slated to Guiae U.S.
Jestern Policy".
4909
Lugust 8
Form of official bond of iir.
"illiam T. Turner, Foreign
Service Officer.
4910
August 8
Conversation between Mr. Dooman,
Counselor of Umbassy, and Ir.
Yoshizawa, Direotor of the
American Bureau of the Foreign
Office, August 6, 1940.
4911
August 10
Diplomatic visa report.
4912
August 12
Transnitting menoranda of con-
versations between the Amerioan
Ambassador and the Jepanese
Ilinister for Foreign Affairs on
July 86 and August 3, 1940.
4913
August 12
Request for special allotment
for replacement of two trees
in the garden of the mbassy.

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
4914
August 13
Trensmitting nespaper article
reporting comment of Lir. Tamon
IMeeda, heed of the Japan In-
stitute in New York, now visi-
ting Japan.
4915
August 14
Trensmitting co y of letter from
the Netherlands Minister to the
Ame icen Ambassador covering a
copy of the note of May 20, 1940,
to the Netherlands ilinister from
the Jepanese Minister for Foreign
ffairs.
4916
August 14
Transuitting memorandum of con-
versation between the American
Ambassador and the Jepanese
Iinister for Foreign /ffairs on
August 3, 1940.
4917
August 16
Jepan's Ilew Genro.
4918
August 17
Diplometic Visa Report.
4919
August 17
Case of interpreter Matsuo of
the American Consulate at Taihoku.
4920
August 19
Damage sustained by the Boone
Library School of The American
Church ilis:ion es a result of
Jepanese aerial bombing on June
28, 1940.
4921
August 19
Danage sustained by the American
Baptist Foreign Lissionary So-
ciety at Chengtu, Szechuan Pro-
vince, as a result of Japanese
aeriai bombing on July 24, 1940.
4922
August 19
Demage susteined by the Chungking
High Sohool of the American Metho-
dist Mission as a result of Japa-
nese aerial bombing on August 9,
1940.
4923
August 21
Ocean Freight Rates on Phosphate
Rock.
4924
August 28
Trensmitting copy of abassy's
representations to the Japanese
Foreign Office in the case of
inconvenience caused by Japanese
military foroes to the American
Southern Beptist iNssion Hompital
at Canton.
4925
August 28
Transmitting copy of the abassy's
note to the Foreign Minister with
regard to stationing of U.S. Coast
Guard vessels in the North Atlan-
tio for purposes of weather ob-
servation.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
4926
August 28
Proposed regular steamship ser-
vice to Sharp Peak, China: Bri-
tish end Americen representa-
tions.
4927
August 30
United States Governnent Publi-
cations.
4928
August 30
Comments on the "New Structure".
4929
August 30
Shanghai Defense Sectors: Trans-
mitting copies of the Ambassador':
memorendum of conversation with
the Japenese Foreign Minister on
August 27, 1940, end Memorande
of conversations between ir.
Crocker, first secretary of
mbessy, and various officers of
the Foreign Office.
4930
August 30
Chemical Construction Corpo-
ration - Yungli Chemical In-
uustries, Linitea, Contract.
4931
August 30
Radio cadress of r. Yakichiro
Suma, Director of Information
Bureau of the Foreign Office,
August 20, 1940, concerning
American-Jaranese relations.
4932
August 31
vistribution of publications for
Federal Power Commission.
4933
August 31
inti-British Agitation in Japan.
4934
August 22
Transmitting memoranaum of con-
versation bctween the Amerioan
Ambassador and the Japenese
Minister for Foreign Affeirs on
August 7, 1940; Shanghai incident
of July 7.
4935
August 22
Trenamitting memorandum of con-
versation held between the Ame-
rican Ambassador end the Japanese
ilinister for Foreign Affairs on
August 7, 1940: Reported secret
demands received by France from
Jepan in regard to French Indo-
china.
4936
August 24
Record of transfer of consular
property in Yokohema.
4937
August 24
Diplomatio visa report.
4938
August 26
Report of conditions in Japan
during the month of June 1940.
4939
August 31
British-Japaness negotiations
regarding olosing of the Burma
route.

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
4940
August 31
Jepanose demands in regard to
French Indochina.
4941
August 31
British representations concern-
irg anti-British activities in
North China.

=== Page 410 === (confidence 1.00)
Telegrams sent to the Department
August 1040
No.
Date
Subject
637
August 1, 9 a.m.
Deportation from Taiwan of Mr. and
Mrs. Sever and Mr. Pattison
638
August 1, 10 a.m.
Detention of Mr. Morin
639
August 1, 4 p.m.
Froposed arrangement to recognize
dual commissions of consular officers
640
August 1, 5 p.m.
Foreign Office announcement of
Japan's foreign policy
641
August 1, 6 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Morin
642
August 1, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
Japan's foreign policy
643
August 1
Press comment on Foreign Minister's
statement
644
August 1, 9 p.m.
Arrest of British subjects accused
of espionage
645
August 1, 10 p.m.
Arrest of British subjects accused
of espionage
646
August 1, 11 p.m.
Ditto
647
August 2, 4 p.m.
Visa for Mr. J. Ridsdale
648
August 2, 5 p.m.
British-Japanese relations
649
August 2, 6 p.m.
Ambassador's toast to the President
at American Club July 4.
650
August 2, 5 p.m.
Ambassador's call on Foreign Minister
651
August 2, 6 p.m.
Appointment of Chuichi Ohashi
as Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
652
August 2, 8 p.m.
Fress reports relating to detention
of Mr. Morin
653
August 2, 9 p.m.
Ditto
654
August 2
Press coament on statements of
Government and Foreign Minister
655
August 3, noon
Arrest of Japanese in London on
charges of espionage
656
August 3
Reported possibility of Matsuoka
negotiation alliance Germany,Italy.

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
657
August 3
Fress reports Koiso appointment as
delegate Netherlands East Indies
658
August 3, 2 p.m.
Report of Japanese intentions re-
garding Netherlands Indies
659
August 3, 3 p.m.
Ditto
660
August 3, 4 p.m.
Fresident's response to Mr.
Matsuoka's message
661
August 3, 5 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7 involving
U.S.Marines and Japanese gendarmerie
662
August 3
Press comment Molotov speech
663
August 5
Embassy's need of clerical staff
664
August 5
General Koiso's press interview
re Netherlands Indies
665
August 5, 6 p.m.
Fress comment on British arrest of
Japanese accused of espionage
666
August 5, 7 p.m.
Japanese arrest of British nationals
accused of espionage
667
August 6, 11 a.m.
Mr. Schuler's leave of absence
668
August 6, noon
Visa requests - McGreer
669
August 7, 5 p.m.
Fress report of conditions in
French Indochina
670
August 7, 6 p.m.
Death of Reuter correspondent Cox, an
detention of other British subjects
in Japan
671
August 7, 7 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7
672
August 7, 10 p.m.
Japanese demands regarding Indochina
673
August 8, 2 p.m.
Fress reports of Ambassador's intervie
with Foreign Minister re Indochina
674
August 8, 6 p.m.
General John F. O'Ryan's visit to Jape
675
August 9, 11 a.m.
Requisitions
676
August 9, 1 p.m.
Japan-Indochina situation
677
August 9, 5 p.m.
Visa requests - Biondelli

=== Page 412 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
678
August 9, midnight
Shanghai incident of July 7.
679
August 10, 11 a.m:
Withdrawal of British
garrisons from China
680
August 10, 4 p.m.
Japan-Indochina negotiations
681
August 10, 5 p.m.
Japanese demands on French re
Indochina
682
August 11, 10 p.m. Mr. Dooman's leave of absence
683
August 1l, noon
Foreign Minister's press interview
re foreign policy
684
August 11
Newspaper comment on British
withdrawal of forces from China
685
August 11
Fress reports concerning German
attitude re Japan-French Indochina
relations
686
August 12, 1 p.m.
Codes
687
August 12, 3 p.m.
General Koiso's press interview re
Netherlands East Indies
688
August 12, 4 p.m.
Codes
689
August 12, 5 p.m.
Visa - Laptev
690
August 12, 6 p.m.
Foreign Office spokesman's press
interview re South Seas areas
691
August 12, 7 p.m.
Anti-British demonstrations in Japan
692
August 12, 9 p.m.
Paraffine Compenies, Inc.
693
August 12
Possible appointment of General Koiso
as delegate to Netherlands Indies.
694
August 13, 9 a.m.
Foreign Service examination - Mr.Green
695
August 13, 5 p.m.
British representations re Japanese
demands on Indochina
696
August 13, 6 p.m.
Japan - Netherlands Indies
697
August 13
Press comment re American representati
Japan-Indochina negotiations
698
August 14
Press comment: proposed Koiso
mission to Netherlands Indies

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
699
August 14, 6 p.m.
Paraffine Companies, Inc.
700
August 15, 1 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
701
August 15, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
702
August 16, 11 a.m.
Steamship service to Sharp Peak
703
August 16, noon
Interference vith Southern Baptist
Mission Iospital, Canton
704
August 16, 6 p.m.
Press reports of Japanese plans for
trade expansion in Latin America
705
August 16
Press comment: Nanking régime's
demand for witharawal of U.S. troops
froa China
706
August 16, 7 p.m.
Ministry of Justice statement re
death of Reuter correspondent Mr. Cox
707
August 16, 9 p.m.
Export restriction on shipment of
aircraft lubricating oil from U.S.
for Japanese army
708
August 17, noon
Codes
709
August 18, 5 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
710
August 18, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
711
August 19, noon
Shanghai defense sectors
712
August 19, 4 p.m.
Press coament: Shanghai defense sector
713
August 19
Press reports of conference re
Japan's southward policy
714
August 20, 5 p.m.
Japan's rice supply
715
August 20, 6 p.m.
Appointment of first Australian
Minister to Japan
716
August 20
Press conment joint defonse program
Canada United States
717
August 20, 7 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
718
August 20, 8 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7.
719
August 20, 11 p.m. Shanghai defense sectors
720
August 21, 10 a.m. U.S.representation of British interest

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
721 August 21, 5 p..
Japanese demands on Seinan Jo Gakko,
American Baptist missionary school
at Kokura
722 August 21, 6 p.m.
Import control regulations in
North China: British representations
723 August 21, 7 p.m.
Organization of new Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau
724 August 21
Press comnent: International
Settlement Shanghai
725 August 21, 8 p.m.
British comment on Japanese attitude
toward Germany
726 August 21, 9 p.m.
Japan - Indochina
727 August 21, 10 p.m.
Comment by a Japanese official on
situation in Europe
728 August 21, 11 p.m.
British subjects under detention
in Japan
729 August 22, 10 a.m.
Stationary supplies
730 August 22, 1 p.m.
Arrest of George L. Holland, jr.
731 August 22
Press comment on United States
export regulations
732 August 22, 6 p.m.
Press comment: British-American
defense arrangenents
733 August 22, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
South Seas areas
734
ucust 23, 4 p.m.
Arrival of Ambassedor Steinhardt
735
August 23, 3 p.m.
Arrival of Messrs. Williams & Schuler
736
August 23, 4 p.m.
New Japanese Minister to Canada
737
August 23, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
738
August 24, 10 a.m.
Steamship service to Sharp Peak
739
August 24, noon
O'Ryan economic mission to Japan
740 August 24, 1 p.m.
Ambassador's conversation with
the Foreign Minister
741 August 24, 2 p.m.
Movement in Japan against foreign
missionary activity.

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
742 August 24, 3 p.m.
Accounts
743
August 24, 4 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
744
August 24, 5 p.m.
Embassy office furniture
745 August 24, 7 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands
East Indies
746 August 25, 3 p.m.
Ambassador Steinhardt's conversation
with Foreign Minister Matsuoka
747
August 26, 10 a.m.
Accounts
748
August 26, 2 p.m.
Ambassador Steinhardt's conversation
with Soviet Ambassador
749
August 26, 3 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
750
August 26, 5 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands
Indies: press comment
751 August 26, 6 p.m.
Border demarcation agreement,
Manchukuo-Outer Mongolia
752 August 27, 11 a.m.
Matsuoka-Steinhardt conversation
753
August 27, 2 p.m.
Arrival of Minister Wiley
754
August 27, 4 p.m.
Press comment on reported American
Far Eastern policy
755 August 27, 5 p.m.
Personnel
756
August 27, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
757 August 28, 11 a.m.
Assignment of personnel in
government quarters
758 August 28, 6 p.m.
Appointment of Shiratori and Saito
as advisers to the Foreign Office
759 August 26, 7 p.m.
Prime Minister's statement re
new national structure - excerpts
760 August 28, 8 p.m.
Ditto. Full text.
761
August 28, 9 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands Indies
762
August 29, 5 p.m.
Ditto
763 August 30, 11 a.m.
Personnel (Schuler's departure)

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
764 August 30, 4 p.m.
Press comment, arms shipments over
Burma Road; U.S.-Great Britain
attitude toward Japan.
765 August 30, 5 p.m.
Status of Christian churches in Japan
766
August 30, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
767
August 30, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
768 August 31, noon
Personnel
769 August 31, 6 p.m.
Rumors of appointments of Japanese
ambassadors to Great Britain and
the United States
770 August 31, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
771 August 31, 8 p.m.
Japanese relations with French
Indochina

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
764 August 30, 4 p.m.
Press comment, arms shipments over
Burma Road; U.S.-Great Britain
attitude toward Japan.
765 Augugt 30, 5 p.m.
Status of Christian churches in Japan
766 August 30, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
767 August 30, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
768 August 31, noon
Personnel
769 August 31, 6 p.m.
Rumors of appointments of Japanese
ambassadors to Great Britain and
the United States
770 August 31, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
771 August 31, 8 p.m.
Japanese relations with French
Indochina

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo, October 8, 1940.
No.5054
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONTITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUET 1940.
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Jepan for the
month of August 1940.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure: Report No. 167
800
MWS:gt
In sextuplicate to the Department.
Copies to Embessies: Peiping, Chungking, Moscow.
Copy to Legation: Bangkok.
Copies to Consulates General: Shanghai, Tientsin, Mukden,
Harbin, Seoul, Tokyo.
Cepies to Consulates: Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki, Nagoya,
Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to High Commissioner to the Philippine Islands.
Capy to Commander-in-Chier of the U.8. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 167
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST 1940

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X
ANN D
SUMMARY
Pages
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai involving
American marines and Japanese gendarmes.
1-3
(b) Shanghai Defense Sector.
4-10
(c) Arrest of the Associatet Press Cor-
respondent, Mr. Relman Morin.
10-13
(d) American Representations Concerning
French Indo-China.
13,14
(e) Reaction in Japan to American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.
14,15
(f) More Important Representations by the
Embessy.
15,16
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Grest Britain.
1. Arrest of British Subjects in
J:pen and Japenese subjects in
the British Empire.
16-18
2. Withdrawal of British military
gerrisons at Shanghei, Peiping end
Tiontsin.
18-20
(b) The Netherlands East Indies.
20-22
(c) Russia.
22,23
(a) Fronch Indo-China.
23-25
(e) Latin America.
25,26
(f) China.
26,27
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(c) Government Announcement Concerning
High Policy.
27-29
(b) Crunges in Foreign Orfice and Foreign
Service Personnel.
29-31
(c) National Structure.
31,32
(d) Orgcnization of the Cavinet Intelligence
Bureau.
32,33
IV.

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
33
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
33
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL ECONOLIC CONDITIONS.
33-36
VII. ACTIVITIES OF LERICIN CONMERCIIL INTERESTS.
36
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COLMERCIAL INTERESTS.
36
IX. LABOR.
36
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
36,37

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai Involving
American Marines and Japanese gendarmes.*
Conformably with the Department's instructions, the
Ambas: edr on August 3 made an oral approach to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs concerning the July 7 incident at Shanghai
which followed the arrest of Japanese gendarmes in plain-
clothes by American marines. The Ambassador stated thet the
Americen Government, after careful review of the correspondencc
between the Americen end Japanese militery authoritios at
Shanghai, was of the opinion that tho attitude of the Amorican
authorities as roflected in thoso communications and in the
reports madc to the American Government had beon consistont-
ly restreined and rocsonable, but that, while not undertaking
to expross an opinion with regard to tho attitude of the
Japanese cuthorities, the Americen Government hed noted with
regret that the tone of and the languege usod in somo of the
Jepanese communications was of ε cheracter tending to nullify
efforts to offect a local settloment of the incident. It wes
pointcd out that should no basis exist upon which locel
edjustment of such incidents could be oxpocted, it would be
necessary to tako up the questions through diplomctic chan-
nels which oftentimes medo settlemont more difficult. Mr.
Grew went on to point out thet the Minister for Foroign
Affairs v!th his knowledge of the Americen people, should
realizo the unfortunete effect upon American public opinion
whioh
*Department's telegrams Nos. 287, August 1, noon, and 286,
July 31. Embassy's telegrams Nos. 650, August 2, 5 p.m.;
661, August 3, 5 p.m.; 671, August 7, 7 p.m.; 678, August
9, midnight; 718, August 20, 8 p.m.; Embassy's despatohes
Nos. 4916, August 14, 1940; 4934, August 22, 1940.

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
which would inevitably result should the language used by the
Japcnese authorities in Shanghai in addressing Americen of-
ficicls hecome known to the American public. The Ambcssador
emphasized that as hed already been publicly steted by the
Secretary of Stete, the American Government desired that a
local settlement be reached and perceived no recson why the
communicction of Admirel Glessford on July 29 to General
Fujitc should not satisfcctorily close the incident.
The Ambassador impressed upon the Ministor for Foreign
Affcirs the rocsoncble cnd restreined ettitude of the Ame-
ricen authorities in contrast with the attitude of the
Japeneso cuthorities and impressed upon the Linister the
importance of considering the incident closed. Mr. Matsuoka
agrecd entirely with the desirability of recching a locel
settlement end scid that he would immediately meko offorts
in that direction. In explanation of the lengucge employed
by tho Japanoso authoritios, the Minister for Foroign Af-
fairs expressed the opinion thet it was probably due entirely
to langucge difficulties end said thet Japenese officicls
ofton write in bombastic style which when conveyed in Japc-
nese carriod littlo meaning but when translated into English
might convey an excggorated impression. The Imbessedor
replied that certcin expressions used by the Jepeneso were
entiroly too definite cnd diroct to be minimized by the
Minister's explenation.
During the Ambessador's call on tho Minister for
Foreign Affairs on another subject on August 7, Mr. Matsuoka
referred to the approaoh mede by the Ambassador on August
3 and said that ho was informed that although complete sot-
tlomont

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
tlement of the incidont had bocn reached in conversations
between Colonel Peck and Major Generel Miura on August 1
and 2, rnd although they hed been on tho point of signing,
word had been reccived from the Dopartmont of Stete that
the question was boing taken up diplomaticclly at Tokyo
and that it wes therefore nocessary that the locel sottle-
ment be deleyod. The ibassedor repliod that thero must
bo c complete misundorstending because in his roprosenta-
tions he had impressed upon tho Minister for Foreign
Affeirs the importence of rerching ε local sottlement and
had in offect merely asked the Minister to "oil tho wheels".
Mr. Metsuoka egroed and said this was also his understand-
ing and expressed the hope that appropriate explanations
would result in an early closing of the incident. The
Ambassador agreed to telegraph immediately to the Depart-
ment of State and to the Consul General at Shanghai.
On August 9 and again on August 20 members of the
Embassy were informed by the Foreign Ofrice that according
to reports from the Japenese authorities at Shanghai they
were still under the impression thet the American authorities
there were acting under instructions which prevented the
acceptance of the settlement agreed upon by Admiral Glassford
and Commender Kuwabata. The Embassy continued to emphasize
that a local settlement was desired. The inoident was not
the subject of further conversations at Tokyo during the
month of August.
a
(b)

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
(b) Shunghai Defenso Sector.*
Conformably with te Department's instructions, the
Babassy on August 15 approached the Foreign Office with
the request that the representetions made be brought promptly
to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In
these ropresentations it was stated that the United States
Government had been informed that there would take place
on August 15 e meeting of the interested commanders at
Shenghai to consider revision of the defenso soctors with
regard to the offer of the Commender of the Americcn Marine
forces there to take over the defense soctors thon cssigned
to the British forces. The hope end expectation of the
Americen Government was expressed that a new crrengement of
the defense sectors would be worked out in a spirit of good
will and cooperation, conformably with tho principles under-
lying the international character of the Sottlament end
with practical considerations.
Shortly after these representations had been delivered
to the Foreigu Office a member of the Embsssy staff was
requested to call end it was explained that the Jrpanese
Goverauent wes displeased that Colonel Peck hea roguested
the calling of the meeting on August 12 end had proposed
thet the American foroes take over the defense of the sectors
assigned to the British forces. Surprise ws expressed that
such action had been taken in disregerd of Jepanese protests
of the short notice which had been given and the Japanese
opinion
*Department's tolegram No. 362, August 13, 3 p.m., to Shanghai;
mbassy's telegrams Nos. 700, August 15, 1 p.m.; 701, August
15, 6 p.m.; 705, August 16. Department's 313, August 17, 2
p.m. mbassy's Nos. 709, August 18, 5 p.m.; 710, August 18,
6 p.m.; 711, August 19, noon, 717, August 20, 7 p.m.; 719,
August 20, 11 p.m. Department's 319, Lugust 21, 6 p.m.
bassy's 743, August 24, 4 P.m.; 749, August 26, 3 p.m.
partment's 32l, August 23, 6 p.m.; Imb. 756, Aug. 20, 11 p.m.
rtment's 886, August 28, 7 p.m.; 328, August 29, 7 p.m.

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
opinion that such a meeting should have been convened by Rear
Admiral Takeda as the senior officer et Shenglai.
The
Foroien cffice official wont on to inquiro whsther she oral
statement which had been delivered by the Embessy was meant
to convey the approval of tho Americaln Government of Colonel
Peck's action and to be diplomctic intervention to ottain
agroement on tho basis of the proposal made at the meating on
August 12.
Mr. Crocker, First Secretary of Embassy, replied thet
the oral reprosentetions were in no sense diplometic inter-
vention but wero merely an official expression of hope and
expoctation thet en agreoment would bo recched in tho spirit
and on the basis indiceted in those representations.
The
Foreign Office official replied that no instrucriona hed
been sent to the Japanese authorities in Shanghai but the
regult of the meeting of August 15 would be sw ited, but
cleerly indicatod thet thc American propos:ls would not be
accoptable and that revision of the defensc soctors et
Sthenghai would have to bo rocched "in the light o the now
existing conditions in Shenghai end in the Far East".
Conformably with the Dopertmont's instructions rsceived
on Sundcy afternoon, August 18, tho Embassy immediatoly
erprocched the Foroign Offico, roquesting that tho messegc be
convcyed urgently to the Minister for Foreign Affeirs as
coming directly from the Ambassador, and stated that the
Government of the United States approved the plen for the
United States forccs to take over Sector B at Shanghai and
hoped thet the Japanese Govarnment would give at least its
tentative

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
tentativo approvel ond would not oppose tho teking over of
Soctor B, by the United States forces pending final decision
rogarding the metter. It wes pointed out that the Anerican
Government considered the plen nd proccdure ontirely reason-
able end hoped that the Japaneso Govornment would take the
same view. The Foreign Office official approached while
stating that ho was speaking without authority and giving
merely his own opinion, scid that ho did not believe the
Japenese Government would consider even tentativo approval
of tho occupation of Sector B by Anoricen forccs. Ho
requested that the Embessy telegraph urgently and ndvise that
no Imerican forces be movod into Defense Sector B following
withdrcwel of the British troops. He indiccted thet such c
move would be opposod by the Japcnese forces. The private
views of this officiel were a short time later confirmed by
the Minister for Foreign Affcirs. The Eabcesy wcs also
informed that the Minister could not understend tho recsons
for the procipitste cction in this mettor by the American
Governmont.
On tho following day, as instructed by tho Department,
the Eabassy informod the Foreign Office thct the American
Government in c desiro to recch an enicablo end equiteble
settlenent of the question was preparod to postpone temporcrily
the occupction of Sector B pending the outcomo of discussions
with the Jepeneso Governnent. The Foroign Office was also
inforned that the United Stctes Navy Dopartnent was suggost-
ing to Adniral Hert that ho endoavor to have tho Shanghai
Volunteor Corps take over the dofense of Sector B as a transi-
tory measuro.
The

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
The Foreign Offico expressed its gratificction at the
. decision to postpone tha occupation of Sector B and addod
that the Japanose Governrient wcs also of the opinion that
this question wcs susceptible of emiceble and equitable
settlement. In roply to the Forcign Office's question
whether this matter wos to becono e subjeot for diplometic
discussions botween the Japenese end American Governments
or whether conversations looking to its sottlement would
continue to be held locally et Shanghai, it was stated thet
in the Embessy's opinion there was no intontion to interfere
with continued discussions for ε local settlement at Shanghai.
On August 20 the Embassy received fron the Foreign
Office c docunent nurked "oral" in vhich tha Japanose Govern-
ment expressed satisfaction et having been informod of the
hope and expectetion of the Americen Govornment that in a
spirit of cooperation end good will & new arrangement of the
defense sectors at Shanghei woula be worked out. The Jrpenese
Government was said to shere this sene hope end expectation.
The attitude and actions of tho Amorican cuthorities ct
Shenghai did not, however, in the opinion of the Jepanese
Government conforn entirely to thet spirit. Reference wcs
mede particulerly to tho cclling of e meeting on August 12
by the Americen Commencont without any prelininary oxchenga
of views; to the clleged rofusal on August 15 of Colonel Peck
to oxplain the motivos behind his proposcl to the Japanese
Commandant end to thc disregerding of the ppposition of
Japanose menbors by the Amorican end British members of tho
Shanghai Municipal Counoil in voting support of the proposal
to

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
to which the Japanese Commandent had not consented. The
statement went on to say that the Japanese authorities in
Shanghai had from the beginning acted in a spirit of coopera-
tion and good will end had been prevented from working out
a fair and reasonable proposal only by the precipitate action
of American authorities in Shanghai. In conclusion, it was
stated that the Japenese Go vernment did not at that moment
consider it necessary that the issue be taken up through
diplomatic channels with the other governments concerned.
On August 27 the Ambassador in an interview with the
Minister for Foreign Arfairs made renewed representations in
the matter of the Shanghai Defense Sectors along lines in
conformance with the Dopartment's instructions. The opinion
was expressed that the American Governmont, unless the Japa-
nose military euthorities at Shanghai should decide to re-
consider their position with respect to the proposal for
reallocation of the soctors upon the basis recommended by
the Defense Committee and approvod by the Shanghai Municipal
Council, would seem to have no alternative to presenting its
views to the Japanese Govornment. The Ambassador pointed out
that in the opinion of the American Governmont the proposal
that the Shanghei Volunteer Corps be pormanently chargod with
special protection of Soction B wes not practicable in viow
of the special cheractor of the Volunteer Corps. The Ambasse-
dor went on to say that the Amoricen Government attaches im-
portance to tho reasonable position taken by tho majority of
the Defense Committee and by the Shanghei Municipel Council
in allocating Soctor D to tho Japanese forces end Sector B
to the Amorican forces. Mr. Grew emphasized thet the United
Statos

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
States Govornmont was of the opinion that all parties having
legitimate interests in the International Settlement should
support and maintain the international character of that
Settlement. The Ambassador at some length elaborated upon
the cosmopolitan nature of Shanghei and the existence there
of a multiplicity of rights and interests of inevitable con-
cern to many countries. Mr. Grew further pointed to the
necessity of members of the Shanghai Municipal Council
avoiding any involvement in controversial matters arising
from causes outside the Sattlement boundaries. He went on
to say that no one fower having interests in the Settlement,
no matter how extonsive they might be, should, because of
developments which have their origin elsewhere, assert a
position which would tend to proscribe or destroy the interna-
tional character of the Settlement.
Reforence was made by the Ambassador to the extensive
American intorosts in the areas which it hed been proposed
should be taken over by the American forces following tho
evacuation of the British. Tho Americen Government, the
Ambassador said, considered the solution thus proposed and
votod by the majority to be in harmony with the principles
underlying the internetionel character of the Settloment.
The Ambassador loft an informal momorandum with the
Minister for Foreign Affeirs of the above obsorvations and
wont on to tell the Minister orelly end informally thet
the Amorican Government considered it important that a solu-
tion be reachod by agreenont upon an equitablo errangoment;
that any other procedure or arrengoment would raise very
serious questions requiring the American Government to
roviso

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
revise the lines of its policy with regard to the protection
of American interests in China, The American Government, for
example, would be compelled to ccrsider making public a full
exposition of the situation. Suen publication would inevitably
call into question the policy of patience which the American
Government would be required to re-examine the many benefits
which have been extended to Japanese commerce and nationals
in the United States to make the treatment of that commerce
and those nationals more nearly reciprocal with the treat-
ment being given by Japanese authorities to American commerce
and nationals in China.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed to do his best
to bring about an amicable and equitable settlement of the
controversy and expressed the opinion that the difficulty
was partly owing to the fact thet Japanese military author-
ities were of the opinion that Americen proposals to take over
the sectors had been occasioned by "British intrigue" and
those military authorities regerded Sector B as of greetor
importance than Soctor D. The convorsation continued for
over an hour.
There wore no further dovelopments regarding this
question during the month of August.
(c) Arrest of Associated Press Correspondent,
Mr. Relman Morin.*
Mr. Morin, Associated Press correspondent, Tokyo, was
arrested by the Gendarmerie on the afternoon of July 31 and
was released early in the morning of August 1. In discussing
his arrest with members of the Embassy, Mr. Morin said that
the questioning concerned primerily press reports which he
had
*Imbassy's telegrams Nos. 638, August 1, 10 a.m.; 641, August
1. 6 p.m.; 652, August 2, 8 p.m.; 653, August 2, 9 p.m.;
Despatch No. 4954, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-.
had sent concerning the large-scele crrests of British
subjects in Japen. Certain of these reports were alleged by
the gendarmerie to heve been false and to have represented
"irresponsible reporting". The gendermerie referred in parti-
cular to two dospetches which had been lsbeled as "uncon-
firmed reports" to the effect th:t sixteen persons had been
arrested and thet two were Americcns. The officors seemed
to resent strongly what they characterized as Morin's ir-
responsibility in neglecting to verify from official Japa-
nese sources, including gendarmeric heedquerters itsolf,
certein reports and rumors which he had obtained from foreign
sources in Tokyo. Mr. Morin replied thet he hed learned from
experience that reference to official Japanose sources con-
cerning matters under & pross ben was useless.
Although Domei Nows Agency issued a report shortly
after ten o'clock in the evening thet Mr. Morin had been
released by the gendermorie following his submission of an
apology for submitting erroneous reports, Mr. Morin was in
fect not released until onc o'clock boccuse he refusod to sign
a statement in Japanese which, when interproted to him, ap-
parently conteined stetements which he hed not made and which
he wrs unwilling should be attributed to him. Mr. Morin
indiceted that in his opinion the gondermerie feared the
effect on public opinion in the Unitod Statos of his reports
and thereforo wished him to sign on apology ond to reveal
the sources of his information. He mainteinod that he stead-
festly avoided reveeling any confidentiel sources but that he
did sign an epology for sending the two above-mentioned un-
confirmod reports. Mr. Morin stated thet "hours" were
dovotod

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
devoted to inoonsequential and extraneous matters and that
although he was informei he was being treated as leniently as
possirle, the experience had been most trying. The method
of the exemination and the phrasing of the questions employed
by the gendarmerie were, according to Mr. Morin, of such a
nature as to leave the subject with a feeling of utter hope-
lessness and frustration. He remarked that even after the
comparatively mild experience through which he had gone he
could understand what Mr. Cox, Reuter's correspondent who
committed suicide during examination by the gendermerie, had
faced and the frame of mind which he had reachod.
On August 2 all vernacular newspapers published what
was apparently an inspired story attacking the British
Embassy as being the source of erroneous reports sent to the
United States by the Associated Press and expressing sympathy
for the fact that Mr. Morin had been hoodwinked" by his
sources of information. The press went on to interpret this
alleged disclosure of the British Embassy as the source of
misinformation as evidence that the British Embassy itself
may be the heart of British espionage against Japan". Almost
all newspapers including the ASAHI, NICHI NICHI and HOCHI
printed a practically identical warning that the authorities
would take resolute action" against any foreign correspondent,
irrespective of nationality should he be guilty of making
false reports or sending "malicious propaganda" against Japan.
This warning was interpreted by an American correspondent as
indioating that foreign correspondents who sent reports on
the basis of information from sources other than Japanese
offioial would be subject to the acousation that they were
guilty

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
guilty of distorting facts and puolishing "malicious propa-
ganda*. If rigorously enforced this might mecn that foreign
correspondents vould be unable to operste in Jrpan  ithout
grave personal acnger.
(a) American representations concerning French
Inão-China.
As instructed by the Department, the Ambsssedor, on
August 6, called on the ilinister for Foreign 'ffairs and
brought to the latter's attention the reports hich vere
circulating thct Japen had lade secret demen's of Frence
in regard to French Indo-China. The Ambossador referred to
Secretary of tate's statements of April 17 ond May 11 in
hich were set forth the belief of the Covernment of the
United States th:t intervention in comestic affairs of the
Netherlonds Tndies by other than peaceiul processes would
be prejucicial to the cause of stability, peace end security
not only in thit re ion but in the entire acific area and
emphasized that thet belief and observetion naturelly apply
also to French Indo-China since the statements contcined
the Americcn Government's observetion that its belief wss
based upon a coctrine having universel applicction cnd for
vhich the United States une uivocs ly stsnds. The .'mbassedor
conveyed to the Minister for Foreign Affeirs, as under in-
structions, the concern of the Government of the United States
with regard to the cevelopments revorted. The Hinister re-
plied that (1) he cesired to reserve corment; (2) thet certain
demanas
*Deyertment's telegrem Mo. 293, Aurust 6, 1 p.m. mbsssy's
telegrem Nos. 672, jugust 7, 10 p.m.; 673, ufust 8, 2 n.m.;
697, August 13. Jespatch N0. 4935, ugust 22, 1940.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
demands had been made on French Indo-China but that he could
not disclose their prec:se nature, and (3) that the various
points in a recent NEW YORK TIMES article were in some in-
stances highly exaggerated and in others entirely devoid of
any foundation. In strict confidence the Minister told the
Ambassador the French Government had already accepted in
principle the Japanese demands.
(e) Reaction in Japan to the American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.*
There was considerable editorial commont following the
conclusion of the joint defense agreement between the United
States and Canada. The ASAHI of August 20 similar to other
vernacular newspapers stated that the action was a logicel
stop and not unexpected but urged that while the agreement
had no direct or immediate relationship with Japan, it was
nevertheless necessery for Japan to watch carefully tho
diplomatic activities of the United States and of Soviet
Russia in the drastic and rapidly changing world conditions.
The HochI assorted that the agreemont affected not only
the Atlantic but also the Pacific, the West Pacific and the
Continents of Australia, East Asia cnd Europe. It was pre-
dicted thst e similer egreement uniting tho American and
Australien Continents might be concluded in the future. The
HOCHI went on to sey that it was nov: necessary for the Japa-
nese Government and tho Jepanese people to exert every offort
to acquire and ostablish the "greater Eest Asia mutuel prospe-
rity sphero.
On August 22 all verncculer newspapers commentod on the
report thet Greet Britain would lease naval beses in the
Western
*mabcssy's tolegrem No. 716, August 20; 732, August 22, 6 p.m.;
754, August 27, 4 p.m.; 764, August 30, 4 p.m.; 741, August
24, 2 p.m.; 765, August 30, 5 p.m.

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Western Hemisphere to the United States.. The press was in
most cases not radical : r inflammatory in its reaction
but was unanimously firm in the conviction that cicse rela-
tions between the United States and Great Britein might
seriously affect Japan. It was reported that the United
States and Great Britain were planning to change the status
quo of certain Pacific areas through the leasing or transfer
of actual or possible naval bases to the United States and
alleged that there existed a secret treaty between Great
Britain and the United Stetes for the use of Singapore by
the latter country. All newspapers concluded that Japan
must give the most serious attention to all possible eventuali-
ties which might follow the American-British negotiations.
Throughout the month of August there continued to appear
from time to time in the vernacular press articles emphasizing
the seriousness to Japan of continued development of possiblo
military cooperation between the United States and England.
(f) More Important Representations by the Embassy.*
During the month of August the Embassy formally pro-
tested to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs bombings of certain
properties in China. Representations wore also made con-
cerning the proposed establishment of a regular steamship
service to Sharp Peak, China, for the benefit of the foreign
community thore. A strong protest was mede to the Foroign
Office during August concerning tho interference of Japanese
military euthorities in Canton with the Southern Baptist
Mission
*Embassy's tolegram Nos. 702, August 16, 11 a.m.; 738, August
24, 10 a.m.; Dupartment's telegram No. 315, August 19, 6 p.m.

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Mission Hospital at thet place.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britain.
1. Arrest of British subjects in Tapen ana Japatese
subjects in British Empire.*
On August 3 all the vernacular newspapers in Tokyo
issued extra editions reporting the arrest of prominent
Japanese in London. This action was considered by the press
to be entirely retaliatory for the arrest of British subjects
in Japan. This original announcement was followed by more
elaborate comment in the press curing the following few days.
The Japanese arrested were said to be prominent businessmen
above any possible suspicion of espionage. Some journals
went so far as to characterize th? British action as barbarous
and illegal. Fear was expressed conccrning the possibility
of a grave crisis in Anglo-Japanese rulations should the
question be not promptly settled, ana some newspepers even
suggested the nocessity of taking positive measures against
Great Britain. In spito of these instances of somewhat violent
language the goneral undortone of the press was, in fact,
weak. On August 5 the Embassy was informed that three pro-
minent British citizens who had beon arrestod in Kobe were
allowed to roturn home. Owing to the fact that some of the
British nationals arrested in Japan might have boen in a
position to inform the British authorities concerning actual
transshipments
*Erbassy's telegrama Nos. 644, August 1, 9 p.m.; 645, August
1, 10 p.m.; 646, August 1, 11 p.m.; 655, August 3, noon;
5t5, August 5, 6 p.m.; 666, August 5, 7 p.m.; 670, August
". 6 p.m.; 691, August 12, 7 p.m.; 728, August 21, 11 p.m.;
706, August 16, 7 p.m.; despatch No. 4950, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
transshipments of essential materiels, such es tin end rubber,
from Japan to Germany via Siberia, some observers were of
the opinion that these arrests were in some measure at least
the result of German instigation. On August 12 there was
held a "down with Britain" mass meeting sponsored by the
Tokyo anti-British Citizens League composed largely of
members of the Tokyo Municipal Assembly. The press reported
that representatives came from six major cities and more than
30 smaller cities and that the meeting was attended by
thousands of individuals.
Various declarations and resolutions were adopted de-
manding the withdrawal of Great Britein from the Fer East,
encouraging the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Wer, Navy
and Foreign Affairs to take strong action and urging the
strengthening of the Japan-Gormany-Itely axis. The meeting
was held in the public hall at Hibiya Park and the general
erea in the neighborhood was carefully policed by hundreds
of uniformed policemen before the opening of the meeting
which was on the whole orderly and undemonstrative. Thore
was no march on the British Embassy. This mecting in Tokyo
marked the climax of a series of anti-British mcetings which
had been helå throughout the Jcpenese Empire following the
arrest of Jcpenese nationcls by British cuthorities and
was openly pro-mxis with the public hall and the ontrances
to the Park decorated with the three flags of Japan, Germany
and Italy.
Following this demonstration howevor, open expression
of anti-British sentiment noticeably subsidod throughout the
country and there were no further public demonstrations
during tho month of August.
on

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
On August 16 the Bureau of Criminal Affairs in the
Ministry of Justice issued a verbal statement concerning
the death of the former Reuter news correspondent at Tokyo,
Mr. Cox. This statement asserted that it had been establi-
shed that Mr. Cox committed suicide, that he had left a will
written the morning of his death, that qualified medical
examination revealed no evidence of any mistreatment end,
finally, that among Mr. Cox's pepers there had been found
much material supporting the charges of espionage.
The mbassy was informed toward the end of August that
the Minister for Foreign Affairs had given assurances that
he would endeavor in an approach to the Minister of War to
expedito investigations of all British subjects remaining
under detention. Tiere were, however, no further dovelop-
ments of interest during the month of August.
(2) Withdrawal of British militery garrisons at
Shanghai, Peiping and Tientsin.*
On August 10 tho British Embassy delivered to the
Foreign Office a notification that British troops which had
been maintained in China at Shanghai, Peiping and Tientsin
would be withdrawn. The British Government resorved all its
treaty rights under the Poiping Protocol of September 7, 1901.
The reaction in the vernacular press following the announce-
ment of the British Government's intention to withdraw its
forces in China was distinctly unfavorable to Great Britain.
It was characterizcd as a futile gesture in an attempt to
improve Anglo-Japanese rolations end simultanoously to
strengthen
*Imbassy's telegrams 679, August 10, 11 a.m.; 684, August
11; 712, August 19, 4 p.m.

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
strengthen British colonial garrisons. The press stated
that Great Britain couli not expect to improve its rela-
tions with Japan until and unless that country fully re-
cognized the new order in East Asia and cocperated posi-
tively with Japan. The press was also very suspicious con-
cerning the United States end stated that some prior under-
standing between the United States and Great Britain had
probably been reached.
On August 19 the vernacular press stated that as it
had previously predicted and subsequent events had establi-
shed, the British withdrawal of troops from China was only
an expedient measure designed to ameliorate anti-British
sentiment in Japan and to ease the strain of Anglo-Jepanese
relations. Subsequent events, it was reported, had verified
the accuracy of previously expressed suspicion that a secret
understanding had been reached between the United States and
Great Britain. The vernacular press went on to assert that
the responsibility for the preservation of peace and order
at Shanghai lay with the Japanese forces there end that there
was no legal foundation of the stationing of foreign troops
at Shanghai. It was seid that the Japaneso forces intended
to take o ver the general defense of the International Settle-
ment only until such time as the "National Government" at
Nanking was able to perform those functions.
During the month of August the British Embassy made
representations to the Japanese Government concerning re-
ported demands by Japan against French Indo-Chine
and

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
2
-20-
and concerning the trade control regulations in North China
which were put into effect during August.
(b) The Netherlands East Indies.*
On August 3 it was reported in the press that General
Koiso, former Minister of Overseas Affairs in the first
Konoye Cabinet (1937-1938) had been offered the position
of official delegate from the J apanese Government to the
Netherlands East Indies and that he would be given broad
powers and the highest rank. The purpose of General Koiso's
mission was said to be to establish the closest political
and economic relations between the two areas on the basis
of mutual interest and position within the sphere of greater
East Asia. At the same time certain newspapers reported
that while en route to Tokyo General Koiso had stated, inter
alia, Japan China and Manchukuo" alone were insufficient for
the construction of an economic zone in Greater East Asia;
that it was necessary to include the South Seas area; that
from a moral viewpoint the freeing of the Oriental races was
necessary and was destined or realization; that the Nether-
lands Indies had long been exploited as a colony and had been
subjected to "administrative pressure". General Koiso en-
visaged the possibility of friction with the United States
in the oxecution of this program and said that Japan's re-
solute determination was required.
On August 5 the vernacular press gave considerable
prominence
*1mbassy's telegrams 657, August 3; 664, August 5; 687, August
12, 3 p.m.; 690, August 12, 6 p.m.; 693, August 12; 696,
August 13, 6 p.m.; 698, August 14; 713, August 19; 745,
August 24, 7 p.m.; 750, August 26, 5 p.m.; 761, August 28,
9 p.m.; 762, August 29, 5 p.m.; Despatches Nos. 4915, August
14, 1940; and 4975, September 14, 1940.

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
prominence to remarks attributed to General Koiso. He
was reported to have said that prior to economic coopera-
tion between the Netherlands East Indies and Japan it would
be necessary to clarify the political aspects of the question
which would involve third Powers, particularly Germany,
England and the United States. As a prerequisite to this
clarification, General Koiso was said to be of the opinion
that it would be necessary for Japan definitely to decide
its attitude toward those countries. He asserted that Japan
was morally justified in extending aid to areas which have
lost their "overlords". It was pointed out that France and
the Netherlands had capitulated to Germany. General Koiso
went on to say that the areas to the south of Japan could
replace European and American sources of materials.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the Nether-
lands Government believed, and had so informed the Foreign
Office, that the remarks attributed to General Koiso by the
press, unless retrected, would make his position, should he
be sent to the Netherlands East Indies, "very difficult",
by which it was implied that it would bo "impossible". The
Embassy was also confidentially informed that unless a re-
traction of these remarks was published that Government would
not accept General Koiso as a Japaneso delogate. Further
progress in the selection of a delegate to the Netherlands
East Indies was for some time unnoticeable, but on August 14
tho press reported that General Koiso would not consider ac-
cepting the position unless he were given the broadest powers
and unless negotiations were not restricted to trade in
economic

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
economio matters.
The appointment of the Minister of Commeree and Industry,
Mr. Kobayashi, as the chief of a special mission to the Nether-
lands Bast Indies was announced on August 24. It was also
reported that Mr. Kobayashi would retain his cabinet port-
folio and that the mission would leave at the earliest pos-
sible date. Two days later the spokesman of the Foreign
Office was reported to have said that there hed been no change
in the attitude of the Japaneso Government from that expressed
in a statement issued by tho Yonai Cabinot concerning the
status guo of the Netherlends East Indies and added that the
appointment of Mr. Kobayashi was merely to expedite the ne-
gotiations already undortaken. Among the members of the
mission as finally announccd by the Japanese Government were
so-called technical experts from the Foreign Office, Cabinet
Planning Board, Finance Ministry, War Ministry, Navy Ministry,
Commerce and Industry Ministry and the Overseas Ministry.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the accept-
ance of this mission by the Netherlands Government was not
asked, and that the Netherlands Government hsd merely been
informed that the mission was being sont.
(c) Russia*
Press comment in Japan upon a speech by Commissar for
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Molotov, given on August 1, was reserved
but in general friendly in reaction. The vernaoular press
insisted that as a prime requisite for improvoment in Russian-
Japanese relations it would be necessary for Russia to give
serious consideration to the cessation of assistance to the
Chiang Kai-shek Government. Adjustment of Russo-Japanese
reletions
*Embassy's telegr:ms Nos. 662, August 3; 740, August 24, 1 p.m.;
746, August 25, 3 p.m.; 748, August 26, 2 p.m.; 751, August 26,
6 p.m.; Deepctches Nos. 4968, September 12;cnd 4967, Septomber
11,1940.

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
relations was also said to be in some measure dependent upon
the attitude of Russia toward other world Powers. The
prospects for the adjustment of those relations were said
to be more cheerful but that certain aspects of Soviet Russia's
demands were still unacceptable to Japan.
The Embassy was informed by a strictly confidential
source on August 25 that the Minister for Foreign Affairs
had said that h had long been an advoeate of rapproehement
between Japan and Soviet Russia and that he still favored
a non -aggressio n pact between that country and Japan. He
was, however, pessimistic concerring the long term of Russo-
Japanese relations. The Minister expressed the opinion that
such difficulties as those over the oil concessions in..
Saghalien would not be settled permanently and that an
eventual conflict between the two countries was inevitable.
He asserted, however, that if Russia and Tapan were able to
compose their differences the Japanese position in the Far
East would become much easier. The Embassy:learned at the
same time that the Minister was dissatisfied with Ambassador
Togo's mission at Moscow and that he intended to replace him
with General Tatekawa.
It was reported in the press on August 26 that following
six meetings of the international commission beginning on
August 3 agreement had been reached between Outer Mongolia
and Manchukuo" regarding the border demarcation. The report
added that the commission members were then engaged in
physically marking the border.
(d) French Indo-China.*
On August 7 the ASAHI and other important vernacular
nerspapers
*Imbassy's telegrams Nos. 669, August 7, 5 p.m.; 676, August
9, 1 p.m.; 680, August 10, 4 p.m.; 685, August 11; 771,
August 31, 8 p.m.

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
newspapers devoted considerable attention to a Domei despatch
from Canton said to be a quotation from tho roport of a
genoral steff momber of the Japanose Army in South Cina
following an inspection of the actual conditions in French
Indo-China. This roport statod inter alia that the friend-
ship of tho French Indo-Chineso Government for Jepen was only
superficial and tomporary, thct Japan would not be deccivod
by tho cttitudo of that Govornmont, cnd that should the Govorn-
mont of Fronch Indo-Chin: tcke ny ction based upon : misccl-
cul tion of its own strongth "futuro h-rm would rosult."
On August 9 tho Ambrssrdor w-s informed in strict con-
fidonco by cn uthentic sourco th-t r Jrp noso Army Strff
officer who hed beon holding convorsctions with the Govornor
Gonor:l of Fronch Indo-Chino hrd modo cortrin milit ry domands
to tho Govcrnor clong thc linos roported in tho pross carly in
August -- right of trcnsit of troops, occup tion of cirdromos,
otc.
Ecrly in August the some dcm nds woro conveyed to the
Fronch Ambrssador in Tokyo by thc Ministor for Forcign Affcirs.
The Minister for Forcign Aff-irs t the scmo time emphasized
that Jcpan is prrticul:rly intorostod in Indo-Chino from an
oconomic point of view. Thoso qucstions werc roferrod to
tho Fronch Governmont at Vichy cnd simultncously convorsctions
continuod in Fronch Indo-Chinr. On August 10 it was roported
in the vernccular pross thrt Gonoral Nishihera who hrd re-
turnod to Tokyo following convorsctions with tho Govornor
Gonoral of Fronch Indo-Chinn had agcin crrivod at Hrnoi and
that

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
that it was expected that negotiations would make rapid pro-
gress. The article alleged that the United States was en-
gaged in obvious attempts to disrupt negotiations between
Japan and French Indo-China. On August 1l the NICHI NICHI
gave considerable prominence to a special despatch from
Berlin reporting that the German Government was paying care-
ful attention to the question of French Indo-China and its
relations with Japan. It was asserted that Germany would
unhesitatingly decline to take an attitude of opposition to
Japan and that Japan and Germany on the occasion of the
opening of the large-scale attack against England would
swiftly conclude an agreement concerning the new orders of
each country and would endeavor to accomplish a "lightning
diplomatic victory". No settlement of this question and no
conclusion to negotintions in French Indo-China were announced
during the month of August.
(e) Latin America.*
There appeared in the press about the middle of August
en announcement that, on the basis of recommendations drafted
at the conference of leading Japanese diplomats to South
America and Central Americe held in Rio de Janeiro in May
and that owing to the conclusion of foreign trade experts
that expension of economic activities including industrial
investments and finencial cccommodctions in South cnd Contral
Americc was urgently necessery, the Ministry of: Foreign
Affairs had given careful study to the question of establish-
ing e permenent organization designed to expand trcde with
those aroas. The organization would, in eddition to of-
ficials from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, include repre-
sentatives
*mb. Tologrem No .704, Aug 16, 6 p.m.; dospatch No. 4870,
July 84, 1940.

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
sentatives from other important Government ministries. The
Vice Minister for Foreigr Affeirs would, it was seid, act as
Chairman.
(f) China.
1. Military Operations in China.
Japanese military operations in China during the month
of August, with the exception of aerial operations, were on
the whole limited to what were cheracterized as "mopping up"
expeditions. More important fighting took place in Central
Hopei and Eastern Shansi in which areas well coordinated and
quite effective raids on railways vwere conducted by the Chinese
Eighth Route Army. According to Japanese announcements "mopping
up" operations against those units of the Eighth Route Army
countinued throughout the month of August.
In northeastern Anhwei Province the Japanese Army also
carried out operations against Chinese guerilla forces opera-
ting in that general district.
Navel landing parties during the month of August carried
out a series of minor raids along the South China Coast.
These Japanese marine forces did not attempt to occupy any
territory but merely landed and in raids destroyed some supplies
and then withdrew.
Both the Japanese Army and Navy air arms continued their
long: distanco raids on Chungking and other points in Szechuan
Province. In addition to these long-range aerial bombing
oporations, thc Army air forccs bombed the communicetions
lines in Kwangsi Province.
The
*Prepared with tho assistance of the office of the Military
Attach6.

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Tho naval aerial forces diroctod bombing raids against
the Chekiang-Kiengsi Railway.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Government announcements concerning High
Policy.*
The press had for some time anticipetod an announce-
mont in which the Japanese Government would clarify high
policy, and on August lst the Cabinet did issue such a
stctement. The stetement in summery wos to the offoct
thnt it was urgently nocesscry for Japan ot tho "historic
turning point in world cff irs" to effect with grert spoed
"fundamental renovations" in all lines of governmont and to
strive for the perfoction of a steto structure for national
dofenso of the highest order. The first step in Japan's
policy looking to the ostablishment of stable world peaco was
to be to create "a now order in Greater East Asia on the
foundation of solidarity botwoon and among Japan, Manchukuo
and China." With rogard to fo reign policy, the Government's
statement may be quoted as follows: "Japan's foreign policy
which aims ultimately at the construction of a new order
in Greater East Asia will be directed, first of all, to
a complete settlement of the China Affair and the advance-
ment of the national fortune by taking a far-sighted view
of the drastic changes in the international situation and
formulating both constructive and flexible measures." With
regard to internal administration, the Government's state-
ment said that the realization of the following points was
expected:
*1mbassy's telegrams Nos. 640, August 1, 5 p.m.; 642, August
1, 7 p.m.; 654, August 2; 683, August 11, noon.

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.97)
-28-
expected:
"(a) renovation of educetion;
(b) establishment of a powerful new political struc-
cture and a qualified control of Government affairs
(this to includo renovation of the Diet and
reformation of bureaucratic and administrative
organs);
2
(c) building of a national defense economy;
(a) renovation of the living mode of the nation and
the maintenance of a standard of living as will
enable tho nation to lead a plain, solid and
vigorous life and to surmount the national crisis
by porsevering truly through years of hardship."
Tho Minister for Foreign Affsirs issued a statoment on
August 1 in which he urged national unity with & view to
offecting Jepan's foreign policy which, he said, "at prosent
is to establish ε groet East Asisn chein of common pros-
pority with the Japan, "Monchukuo" and Chine group as ono
of the links". Tho Minister also said thst the Japaneso
Government should strive with cournge &nd determinction to
cchiove its goal "in concert with those friondly Powers
which ere prepcred to cooperate with us".
The vernacular press in cormenting on the stctements
fssued on August 1 was in general . critical and in some
instences cntagonistic. A further clarificction of the
Government's views cnd cn expression of concreto measures
which wero to be taken was desired. The YOMTURI interpreted
tho statoments as indiceting thet thore would be c drastic
change in diplomatic policy end that thenceforth Japen
expected to edopt a "strong policy" toward all Powers op-
posing this country.
On August 10 the Minister for Foreign Affcirs discussed
Jepanese

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
Japanese foreign policy in gonorclly ebstract torms during
a press interview. He was reported to have described the
complicated international situation as "rich in unforeseen
opportunities" and to have said that it was necessary to
achieve the new internal organization and to realize the
establishment of a "sphere of mutual prosperity in Greater
East Asia." As a part of Japan's positive diplomacy the
Minister reportedly stated that Japan would cooperate
actively with friendly nations of a similar mind. Japan's
relations towards the great powers were being carefully
observed and analyzed but the time was said to be then not
opportune to reveal publicly the results of those obeerva-
tions and analyses.
(b) Chenges in Foreign Office and Foreign
Service Personnel.*
Early in August, the appointment of Mr. Chuichi Ohashi,
formerly Counselor to tho Government of "Manchukuo" as Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs was announccd. On August 23
there appeared in the pross announcements of the rocall of
the great majority of Japanese Ambassadors, Ministers, and
many other high-ranking Japanese Foreign Service officials.
The subject was sensationally treated by the press and was
reported as "an unprecedented and drastic shakeup in Foreign
Service personnel". There was, however, no putright criticism
of the step taken and there were only a few veiled and in-
definite queries as to the advisability of the measure.
It
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 651, August 2, 6 p.m.; 736, August
23, 4 p.m.; 737, August 23, 7 p.m.; 758, August 28, 6 P.m.;
767, August 30, 7 p.m.; .656, August 3; 769, fugust 31; 770,
August 3, 7 p.m.

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
It was characterized as the first step toward a "renovation
in Japan's diplomatic policy". New young end vigorous" re-
presertatives of Japan were expocted to be appointed not
only from the career service cut clso from cutside circles.
At the same time reports were heard that many officials
in the Foreign Office would be transferred or would resign.
All newspapers generally agreed that these drestic changes
were decided upon by the Foreign Minister and his Vice
Ministor, Mr. Ohashi, with the assistanco of a few intimate
advisors and that final docision was taken in carefully
guarded socrecy. Mr. Ohashi was quoted by the press as
laughingly announcing that he himself was directly rospon-
sible for the recall orders. The Foreign Office spokesman
was said to have told foreign correspondents that the new
Japanese Ambassador to the United States would be appointod
soon and that the changes were "merely routine". The ap-
pointments of Mr. Toshio Shiratori, formor Imbassedor to
Itely, and well-known sdvocete of close relations with the
Axis Powors, and Ryooi Seito, former Director of tho Com-
mercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, a director of the
South Manchuria Railway Company in 1927, and adviser to the
Commanding Headquarters of the Kwangtung ∴rmy in 1929, as
diplomatic advisers to the Foreign Office were published in
the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on August 28.
On August 30 further sweeping appointments and transfers
were announced, including the appointment of Mr. Matsumiya
as Ambassador-at-large to the South Seas and India. The
press expeoted that these reforms would successfully
"eliminate

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
"eliminate traditional diplomats" brought up under the old
school of diplomacy of Japan's economic dependence on Great
Britain and the United States. It was further expected that
young officials in the Foreign Office and Foreign Service
would be given training in netionalistic principles.
At the end of Lugust there were current in Tokyo many
rumors concerning the new Japanese Ambassador to be appoint-
ed to the United States. It was said that the position
hed been offered to one or more individuals but that no one
had accopted.
(c) New National Structure.*
On August 28 Prince Konoye issued a statement prior to
the opening of the first session of the Preparatory Com-
mittee on the establishment of the new structure. This
statement in surmary was as follows:
"If Japan is to bring the China Affair to a
successful conclusion and to tako an active part
in the establishmont of a new world order Japan
must perfect a national defense structure of the
highest degree. The basis of such a structure is
ε powerful internal structure. This is indeed a
netionel demand. It is not a domend of a tomporcry
charccter but of a permanent one. Whether or not
Jepan can ostablish such n strong national structure
will decide the very rise or fall of the netiona.
Among the items to be considered (are) harmonious
cooperation between the High Command and the administra-
tive branch of the Government, the consolidation of
State mechanisms and the heightening of efficiency and
the establishment of a new Parliamentary structure as
an organ for assisting the Throne. The aim of the
new national structure is to unite the total energies
of the state. The organization of the nation must
therefore extend to the economic and cultural spheres.
There must be a solid nation-wide structure in which
all component parts are organized vertically, and
they are also bound together horizontally. A definite
national movement is necessary for the successful
realization of this national structure. Such a
movement
*mbassy's telograms Nos. 759, August 28, 7 p.m.; 780,
August 28, 8 p.m. Dospatch No. 4946, Soptombor 5, 1940.

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
movement should spontaneously spring from the people
themselves. If it is planned or guided by the Govern-
ment, or it is given anedministrative structure, it
may hinder the spontaneous manifestation of the people's
energies. The present circumstances, however, do not
allow us to rely only on the spontaneous develop-
ment of such a movemont. Icrcover, agitations from
bolow, are liable to dcgenorate into factionel strifos
and fail to expand into a really national movemont. The
Govornment have thus found it nocessary to take posi-
tive steps for fostering and directing this movemont.
This movement is a common undertaking of both the
Government and the people: it is a nation-wide move-
mont to assist the Throne. The new national structure
movement aims at superseding the old party politics
postulated upon liberalism. When such a movement
is led by tho Government itself it cannot in any
sense be a party movement. Noither can it be allowed
to tako tho form of a single party system. No matter
what brilliant results such a system may have reaped
in other lands, it is not acceptable in Japen because
it is contrary to the basic principle of our national
polity of 'One Sovereign over all'. In Japan it
is the privilege of all His Imperial Majesty's
subjects to assist the Throne and that privilege
cannot be monopolized by the power of either a single
individual or a single party. If there should arise
a difference of opinion cyncerning the assistance
to be offered, the final decision would rest with the
Throne. And once an Imperial decision has been
given, ell subjects of the Throne should unite in
obeying His Majesty's word. That is the true essence
of Japanese polity."
Although the sessions of the Preparatory Committee
began there were no significant developments nor was there
any clarification of the "new national structure" during
the month under review.
(d) Organization of the Cabinet Intelligence
Bureau.*
In line with the general tendency in Japan toward a
centralization of control and administration, the proposal
was made in the latter part of August to organize a Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau which would take over, it was report-
ed, the activities of the Army and Navy Intelligence
Bureaus
*Embassy's telogram No. 723, August 21, 7 p.m.

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
Bureaus and part of the functions of tho Information Bureau
of the Foreign Office as well as certain intelligence func-
tions of the Homo Office end the Communications Ministry.
The first meeting to decide upon the organization of this
Bureau was held at the officiel residence of the Prime
Minister on August 21. One of the functions of this bureau,
it was said, would be to oxerciso stricter consorship of
articles appearing in the vornacular prcss. Tho Embassy
had obsorved during August a growing scercity of political
articlos end independont editoricl writing on the part of
the vernecular pross.
IV. COURSB OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to roport.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
On August 1 an official announcement was mado con-
corning the new Governmont's bosic economic policies. Thoso
policios included the following objoctives: improvement
of netionel defonse facilities through the cutonomous
development of the economy of the yen-bloc cre; the perfec-
tion of unitery control system of production, distribution
cnd consumption of important commoditics; thc utilization
of finencicl strength towards thc development of the nation'
economic power; cdaptation (nd change of Jcpen's foreign
trade policy to meet the now world situstion; the attain-
mont
*Prepared with the assistance of the Office of the Commercicl
Attaohé.

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
ment of self-sufficiency in important daily necessities,
particularly foodstuff:; expansion of heavy industries,
particularly chemical and machine industries; expansion
of communication and transportetion facilities and the
establishment of land development plans. These policies
did not represent, on the whole, any significant changes
from previous broad policies announced by the Government
and the general reaction in the press was to emphasize
that the Japanese people desired a program and policies
designed to cope with immediate problems rather than
policies which represented an ideal to be accomplished over
a long period of time.
During the month of August business and industrial
circles in Japan were frankly apprehensive regarding the
futuro course of Government control over their activities
and the possible involvoment with third Powers over the
question of Japanese entrance into French Indo-China. The
share market was generally weak and leading speculative
issues reached their lowost price levels at the end of the
month since the outbreak of the European hostilities.
On August 29 Prime Minister Konoye announced more
rigid price control for the trade in the yon-bloc area, the
oxtonsion of stricter official control over numorous industries
and tho functions of various trade organizations and businuss
concerns. Immediately after this Government announcoment,
shares of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the so-called "barometer"
of the market, dropped from Yon l26 to a record low of Yen
109.
During

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
During August official prices on frosh goods wore
ordered reduced from 20 perccnt to 50 percent bolow the then
prevailing lovels.
Menufacturers of goods which were banned by the "anti-
luxury" logislation of July 7 wer: roportudly facing grave
difficultics sinco no official action hed been taken to
finance theso producers through the difficult period of
transition to some industry not banned undor official con-
trol. Partially as a result of this situation crodit and
colloction conditions worsened during August and thc number
and value of dishonored bills reached the highest levels in
rocent yeers.
Finencial Conditions.
During tho month under review the rate of notional
bond absorption wcs charcctcrized es "poor" -- 71 por cent
as compcrod with 104.5 por ccnt during the month of July.
Averego dcily note issuc of the Bank of Jep:n reached
c new high levol during August -- yen 3,329,000.
Whlosclo prices wore roported to have cdvonccd .1 per
cont over July cnd 7.2 per cont over the corresponding month
in 1939. Retcil prices doclined .2 per cent from the
previous month, July, but were 13.9 per cent higher than in
August 1939. There woro slight  ins in tho living costs of
both laboring cnd selcried clcssos. Shcre prices εvoragod a
1.9 porcent g in over tho month of July as & result of the
distinct upwcrd trend in tho first-hclf of August but, as
pointed out previously, stock priccs declined sherply toward
the close of August.
Forcign

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
Foreign Trado.
Preliminary returus for foreign trcdo for the Jepanese
Empire during the month of August were exports Yen 317,693,000;
imports Yen 286,294,000 as compered wi.th July exports Yen
358,292,000; imports Yen 281,598,0C0.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
On August 24 the Ambassador was informed by a foreign
bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church that an under-
standing had been reached between the gendarmerie and the
senior Japanese Bishop, Naide, under which in order to fore-
stall pressure against the church no foreigners would there-
after be allowed to have charge of a diocese or a church in
Jepan and all financial assistence from abroad would be
refused.
This movement against foreign missioneries, it was
believed, resulted from ar attitude of the Japanese mil-
itery authoritios that (c) the Christian Church is dissemina-
ting propagandε fevorable to the United States and Great
Britain which dissemination is contrary to netionel policy
and inimical to Japan, (b) finencial support from abroad
is likely to result in the control hy foreign interest of
Japanese

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
Japanese clergymen receiving such support and (c) all
foreign missionaries are potential spies.
This movement began early in August with the arrest
of the leaders of the Salvation Army. It was reported that
the Methodist Church would be next to be "purged" by the
gendarmerie. Leading missionaries were of the opinion that
this movement would mark the end of missionary activities
in Jap an.
On August 30 there was reported the meeting of 50
representatives of verious Christian organizations in
Japan under the chairmanship of Mr. Abe, President of the
Federation of Christian Churches in Japan. The mecting was
called for the purpose of adopting a common policy for
Christian churchcs in Japan which would be conformeble to
the "new national structure." It was reported that
offorts would be made to have the various Christian sots
amalgamate into one organization and that all foreign
assistance and influence would be eliminated from Chris-
tien endeavors. The meeting adjourned without achieving by
concrete results but wes scheduled to be reconvened on
September 2 for further discussions of this question as well
as of Christian missionary activities in Manchukuo" end
China.

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
August 1940
No.
Date
Subject
4876
August 1
American property losses
in China--Settlement of
claims through local ne-
gotiations.
4877
August 1
Dr. Cherles L. Gillette,
"emoi--Japenese bombing of
property of.
4878
August 1
Ceventh Day Adventist Mis-
sion--Japanese bombing in
Chungking.
4879
August 1
Intorest of Nenyeng Brothers
Tobecco Co., Inc., in certain
properties at Hankow.
4880
Aufust 1
Clinping from The Janan Ad-
vertiser of Ju1y 12, 1940,
entitled "U.S. Thought Lager
to Settle Issues".
4881
Aufust 1
Accounting instruction; pay-
ments on rowers of Attorney
to authorized agents.
4882
August 2
home leave €ranted r. Donsld
.. Lamm, Foreign Service
Officer.
4883
August 2
Covenant issionary Society
at Kiengling (Kingchow)--
Japanese bombing of.
4884
August 3
Diplometic visa report.
4885
August 3
Application by r. Dixon
Ldwards, Foreign Service Of-
ficer, for third year of
lenguage study.
4886
August 5
Copies of paraphrased tele-
grams, received through the
British mbassy et Tokyo,
reporting the con'ersation
on June 28, 1940, between
the British Ambassedor at
"ashington with the Secretary
of State.
4887
August 5
Visit to Japan of Frofessor
Salvador Liassip, Havana, Cuba:
Newspeper clipping reporting
interview with Dr. Massip.

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4888
August 5
Trade mark protection on
behalf of Greenfield Tap &
Die Corporation.
4889
August 5
Confidential menorandum signed
by Japenese Linister and
Eritish Ambassador regarding
the closure of the Burma Route.
4890
August 5
Three newspaper cartoons from
The Japan Times of July 19,
July 30, and August 2, 1940,
¿evoted to the United States.
4891
August 5
Text of the reply of the
Netherlands Government to the
Jepanese Government's note
dated June 28, 1940.
4892
August 6
Transmission of specimen Japa-
nese Passports.
4893
August 6
Renort recoived from the Ameri-
can Consulate at Nagoya rela-
ting to the Southward advance
movenent plens of the Japa-
nese llilitary.
4894
August 6
Christian and iissionary
Alliance, Luichow--Japanese
bombing of.
4895
August 6
Lvangelioal Lutheran Church
iission, Icheng--Japanese
bombing of.
4896
August 6
Methodist Episcopal Lission,
Chungking, Jenanese bonbing
of.
4897
August 6
Americen Bible Society, Chung-
king, bombing of.
4898
August 6
Letters exchanged in 1917 be-
tween I.r. A. Barton Fepburn,
Baron Eiiohi Shibusawa and
Baron K. Yanagawa, President
of Tokyo Imperial University
re establishment of hepburn
Professorship.
4899
August 6
Summary of speech delivered
by Count IMiohimasa Soejima,
nember of the House of Peers,
on Jenuary 27, 1934.
4900
August 6
Fall of the Yonai Cabinet and
formation of the second Konoye
Cabinet.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
4901
August 6
Tribute to the late Prince
Iyesato Tokugawa--broadcast
to the United States, July 5,
1940.
4902
August 7
Clipping from the Japan Ad-
vertiger dated July 31. 1940,
entitied "lletanorphosis Seen
in Japanese Ideas".
4903
August 7
lemorandum of conversation be-
tween the Anerican Ambassador,
Ir. Crew, and the Linister for
Foreign Affairs, Lir. Matsuoka,
on July 26, 1940.
4904
August 7
Eeventh Day Adventist Mission,
Chungking, bombing of.
4905
August 8
Exchange of notes between the
French Ambassador and the Japa-
nese Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs relating to the settle-
ment of difficulties involving
the French Concession at
Tientsin.
4906
fugust 8
Lutheren United Iission, Chu-
matien, bombing of.
4907
August 8
Request of Sir George Sansom
for acvice concerning a visa
for entrance into the United
States.
4908
August 8
Clipping from The Japan Times,
Lugust 5, 1940, entitled
"Realism Slated to Guide U.S.
Gestern Policy".
4909
August 8
Form of official bond of iir.
'illiam T. Turner, Foreign
Service Officer.
4910
August 8
Conversation between Mr. Dooman,
Counselor of Imbassy, and Ir.
Yoshizawa, Director of the
American Bureau of the Foreign
Ofrice, August 6, 1940.
4911
August 10
Diplomatic visa report.
4912
August 12
Transmitting menoranda of con-
versations between the American
Ambassador and the Jepanese
INinister for Foreign Affairs on
July 26 and August 3, 1940.
4913
August 12
Request for special allotment
for replacement of two trees
in the garden of the mbassy.

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
4914
August 13
Trensmitting newspaper article
reporting comment or Lr. Tamon
Laeda, heed of the Japan In-
stitute in New York, now visi-
ting Japan.
4915
August 14
Trensmitting co y of letter from
the Netherlands inister to the
Ame ican Anbassador covering a
copy of the note of May 20, 1940,
to the Netherlands ilinister from
the Jepanese Minister for Foreign
ffairs.
4916
August 14
Transuitting memorandum of con-
versation between the American
Ambassador and the Japenese
Ifinister for Foreign Affairs on
August 3, 1940.
4917
August 16
Jepan's iHev Genro.
4918
Aueust 17
Diplometic Visa Report.
4919
August 17
Case of interpreter Matsuo of
the American Consulate at Taihoku.
4920
August 19
Damage sustained by the Boone
Library School of The American
Church iMis:ion es a result of
Japanese aerial bombing on June
28, 1940.
4921
August 19
Danage sustained by the American
Baptist Foreign Lissionary So-
ciety at Chengtu, Szechuan Pro-
vince, as a result of Japanese
aeriai bombing on July 24, 1940.
4922
August 19
Demage sustained by the Chungking
High School of the American Metho-
dist Mission as a result of Japa-
nese aerial bombing on August 9,
1940.
4923
August 21
Ocean Freight Rates on Phosphate
Rook.
4924
August 28
Transmitting copy of Eabessy's
representations to the Japanese
Foreign Office in the case of
inconvenience caused by Japanese
military forces to the Amerioan
Southern Beptist inssion Hospital
at Centon.
4925
August 28
Transmitting copy of the Imbassy's
note to the Foreign Minister with
regard to stationing of U.S. Coast
Guard vessels in the North Atlan-
tio for purposes of weather ob-
servation.

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
4926
August 28
Proposed regular steamship ser-
vice to Sharp Peak, China: Bri-
tish and Amerioan representa-
tions.
4927
August 30
United States Government Publi-
cations.
4928
August 30
Comments on the "New Struoture".
4929
August 30
Shanghai Defense Sectors: Trans-
mitting copies of the Ambassador'.
memorendum of conversation with
the Japenese Foreign Linister on
August 27, 1940, end Memorande
of conversations between r.
Crocker, first secretary of
mbessy, and various ofricers of
the Foreign Office.
4930
August 30
Chemical Cunstruction Corpo-
ration - Yungli Chenical In-
dustries, Limitea, Contraot.
4931
August 30
Radio address of r. Yakichiro
Suma, Director of Information
Bureau of the Foreign Office,
August 20, 1940, concerning
American-Japanese relations.
4932
August 31
bistribution of publications for
Federal Power Commission.
4933
August 31
Anti-British Agitation in Japan.
4934
August 22
Transmitting memoranaum of con-
versation botween the American
Ambassador and the Japenese
inister for Foreign Affeirs on
August 7, 1940, Shanghai incident
of July 7.
4935
August 22
Trenanitting memorandum of con-
versation held betwean the Ame-
rican Ambassador and the Japanese
linister for Foreign Affairs on
August 7, 1940: Reported secret
demands reoeived by France from
Jspan in regard to French Indo-
china.
4936
August 24
Record of transfer of consuler
property in Yokohema.
4937
August 24
Diplomatio visa report.
4938
August 26
Report of conditions in Japan
during the month of June 1940.
4989
August 31
British-Japaness negotiations
regarding olosing of the Burma
route.

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
4940
August 31
Jepanese demands in regard to
French Indochina.
4941
August 31
British representations concern-
ing anti-British activities in
North China.

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
August 1040
No.
Date
Subject
637
August 1, 9 a.m.
Deportation from Taiwan of Mr. and
Mrs. Sever and Mr. Pattison
638
August 1, 10 a.m.
Detention of Mr. Morin
639
August 1, 4 p.m.
Froposed arrangement to recognize
dual commissions of consular offioers
640
August 1, 5 p.m.
Foreign Office announcement of
Japan's foreign policy
641
August 1, 6 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Morin
642
August 1, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's staterent re
Japan's foreign policy
643
August 1
Press comment on Foreign Linister's
statement
644
August 1, 9 p.m.
Arrest of British subjects accused
of espionage
645
August 1, 10 p.m.
Arrest of British subjects aocused
of espionage
646
August 1, 11 p.m.
Ditto
647
August 2, 4 p.m.
Visa for Mr. J. Bidsdale
648
August 2, 5 p.m.
British-Japanese relations
649
August 2, 6 p.m.
Ambassador's toast to the President
at American Club July 4.
650
August 2, 5 p.m.
Ambassador's call on Foreign Minister
651
August 2, 6 p.m.
Appointment of Chuichi Ohashi
as Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
652
August 2, 8 p.m.
Press reports relating to detention
of Mr. Morin
653
August 2, 9 p.m.
Ditto
654
August 2
Press conment on statements of
Government and Foreign Minister
655
August 3, noon
Arrest of Japanese in London on
charges of espionage
656
August 3
Reported possibility of Matsuoka
negotiation alliance Germany,Italy.

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
657
August 3
Fress reports Koiso appointment as
delegate Netherlands East Indies
658
August 3, 2 p.m.
Report of Japanese intentions re-
garding Netherlands Indies
659
August 3, 3 p.m.
Ditto
660
August 3, 4 p.m.
Fresident's response to Mr.
Matsuoka's message
661
August 3, 5 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7 involving
U.S.Marines and Japanese gendarmerie
662
August 3
Press comment Molotov speech
663
August 5
Embassy's need of clerical staff
664
August 5
General Koiso's press interview
re Netherlands Indies
665
August 5, 6 p.m.
Fress comment on British arrest of
Japanese accused of espionage
666
August 5, 7 p.m.
Japanese arrest of British nationals
accused of espionage
667
August 6, 11 a.m.
Mr. Schuler's leave of absence
668
August 6, noon
Visa requests - M.cGreer
669
August 7, 5 p.m.
Fress report of conditions in
French Indochina
670
August 7, 6 p.m.
Death of Reuter correspondent Cox, anc
detention of other British subjects
in Japan
671
August 7, 7 p..
Shanghai incident of July 7
672
August 7, 10 p.m.
Japanese demanas regarding Indochina
673
August 8, 2 p.m.
Fress reports of Ambassador's intervie
with Foreign Minister re Indochina
674
August 8, 6 p.m.
General John F. O'Ryan's visit to Jape
675
August 9, 11 a.m.
Requisitions
676
August 9, 1 p.m.
Japan-Indochina situation
677
August 9, 5 p.m.
Visa requests - Biondelli

=== Page 467 === (confidence 1.00)
678
August 9, midnight Shanghai incident of July 7.
679
August 10, 11 a.m,
Withdrawal of British
garrisons from China
680
August 10, 4 p.m.
Japan-Indochina negotiations
681
August 10, 5 p.m.
Japanese demands on French re
Indochina
682
August 11, 10 p.m. Mr. Dooman's leave of absence
683
August 11, noon
Foreign Minister's press interview
re foreign policy
684
August 11
Newspaper comment on British
withdrawal of forces from China
685
August 11
Fress reports concerning German
attitude re Japan-French Indochina
relations
686
August 12, 1 p.m.
Codes
687
August 12, 3 p.m.
General Koiso's press interview re
Netherlands East Indies
688
August 12, 4 p.m.
Codes
689
August 12, 5 p.m.
Visa - Laptev
690
August 12, 6 p.m.
Foreign Office spokesman's press
interview re South Seas areas
691
August 12, 7 p.m.
Anti-British demonstrations in Japan
692
August 12, 9 p.m.
Paraffine Compenies, Inc.
693
August 12
Possible appointment of Genaral Koiso
as delegate to Netherlands Indies.
694
August 13, 9 a.m.
Foreign Service examination - Mr.Green
695
August 13, 5 p.m.
British representations re Japanese
demands on Indochina
696
August 13, 6 p.m.
Japan - Netherlands Indies
697
August 13
Press comment re American representati
Japan-Indochina negotiations
698
August 14
Press comment: proposed Koiso
mission to Netherlands Indies

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
699
August 14, 6 p.m.
Paraffine Companies, Inc.
700
August 15, 1 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
701
August 15, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
702
August 16, 11 a.m.
Steamship service to Sharp Peak
703
August 16, noon
Interference vith Southern Baptist
Mission iospital, Canton
704
August 16, 6 p.m.
Press reports of Japanese plans for
trade expansion in Latin America
705
August 16
Fress comment: Nankine régime's
demand for witharawal of U.S. troops
from China
706
August 16, 7 p.m.
Ministry of Justice statement re
death of Reuter correspondent Mr. Cox
707
August 16, 9 p..
Export restriction on shipment of
aircraft lubricating oil from U.S.
for Japanese army
708
August 17, noon
Codes
709
August 18, 5 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
710
August 18, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
711
August 19, noon
Shanghai defense sectors
712
August 19, 4 p.m.
Press coument: Shanghai defense sector
713
August 19
Press reports of conference re
Japen's southward policy
714
August 20, 5 p.m.
Japan's rice supply
715
August 20, 6 p.m.
Appointment of first Australian
Minister to Japan
716
August 20
Press comment joint defonse program
Canada United States
717
August 20, 7 p..
Shanghai defense sectors
718
August 20, 8 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7.
719
August 20, 11 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
720
August 21, 10 a.m. U.S.representation of British interes.

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
721 August 21, 5 p..
Japanese demands on Seinan Jo Gakko,
American Baptist missionary school
at Kokura
722 August 21, 6 p.m.
Import control regulations in
North China: British representations
723 August 21, 7 p.m.
Organization of new Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau
724 August 21
Press comment: International
Settlement Shanghai
725 August 21, 8 p.m.
British conment on Japanese attitude
toward Germany
726 August 21, 9 p.m.
Japan - Indochina
727 August 21, 10 p.m.
Comment by a Japanese officiel on
situation in Europe
728 August 21, 11 p.m.
British subjects under detention
in Japan
729 August 22, 10 a.m.
Stationery supplies
730 August 22, 1 p.m.
Arrest of George L. Holland, jr.
731 August 22
Press comment on United States
export regulations
732 August 22, 6 p.m.
Press comment: British-American
defense arrangerents
733 August 22, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
South Seas areas
734 ucust 23, 4 p.m.
Arrival of Ambassador Steinhardt
735 August 23, 3 p.m.
Arrival of Messrs. Williams & Schuler
736 August 23, 4 p.m.
New Japanese Minister to Canada
737
August 23, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
738
August 24, 10 a.m.
Steamship service to Sharp Peak
739 August 24, noon
O'Ryan economic mission to Japan
740 August 24, 1 p.m.
Ambassedor's conversation with
the Foreign Hinister
741 August 24, 2 p.m.
Movement in Japan against foreign
missionary activity.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
742 August 24, 3 p.m.
Accounts
743
August 24, 4 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
744
August 24, 5 p.m.
Embassy office furniture
745 August 24, 7 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands
East Indies
746 August 25, 3 p.m.
Ambassador Steinhardt's conversation
with Foreign Minister Matsuoka
747
August 26, 10 a.m.
Accounts
748
August 26, 2 p.m.
Ambassador Steinhardt's conversation
with Soviet Ambassador
749
August 26, 3 pim.
Shanghai defense sectors
750
August 26, 5 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands
Indies: press comment
751 August 26, 6 p.m.
Border demarcation agreement,
Manchukuo-Outer Mongolia
752
August 27, 11 a.m.
Matsuoka-Steinhardt conversation
753
August 27, 2 p.m.
Arrival of Minister Wiley
754 August 27, 4 p.m.
Press comment on reported American
Far Eastern policy
755 August 27, 5 p.m.
Personnel
756
August 27, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
757
August 28, 11 a.m.
Assignment of personnel in
government quarters
758 August 28, 6 p.m.
Appointment of Shiratori and Saito
as advisers to the Foreign Office
759 August 26, 7 p.m.
Prime Minister's statement re
new national structure - excerpts
760 August 28, 8 p.m.
Ditto. Full text.
761
August 28, 9 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands Indies
762
August 29, 5 p.m.
Ditto
763 August 30, 11 a.m.
Personnel (Sohuler's departure)

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
764 August 30, 4 p.m.
Press oomment, arms shipments over
Burma Road; U.S.-Great Britain
attitude toward Japan.
765
August 30, 5 p.m.
Status of Christian churches in Japan
766
August 30, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
767
August 30, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
768
August 31, noon
Personnel
769
August 31, 6 p.m.
Rumors of appointments of Japanese
ambassadors to Great Britain and
the United States
770 August 31, 7 pim.
Japanese foreign service changes
771
August 31, 6 p.m.
Japanese relations with French
Indochina

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo, October 8, 1940.
No5054
SUBJECT:
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUET 940
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Jepan for the
month of August 1940.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure: Roport No. 167
800
MWS:gt
In sextuplicate to the Department.
Copies to Emhassies: Pelping, Chungking, Moscow.
Copy to Legation: Bangkok.
Copies to Consulates General: Shanghai, Tientsin, Mukden,
Harbin, Seoul, Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates: Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki, Nagoya,
Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to High Commissioner to the Philippine Islands.
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 167
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST 1940

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
INDEX
ANN D
SUMMARY
Pages
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shenghai involving
American marines and Japanese gendarmes.
1-3
(b) Shanghei Defense Sector.
4-10
(c) Arrest of the Associate Press Cor-
respondent, Mr. Relmen Morin.
10-13
(a) American Representations Concerning
French Indo-China.
13,14
(e) Reection in Japan to American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.
14,15
(r) More Important Representations by the
Embessy.
15,16
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Grect Britain.
1. Arrest of British Subjects in
J:pen and Japanese subjects in
the British Empire.
16-18
2. Withdrawal of British military
gerrisons at Shenghei, Peiping end
Tiontsin.
18-20
(b) The Netherlands Ecst Indies.
20-22
(c) Russia.
22,23
(d) Fronch Indo-China.
23-25
(e) Latin America.
25,26
(f) China.
26,27
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(c) Govornment Announcement Concerning
High Policy.
27-29
(b) Chunges in Foreign Orfice and Foreign
Service Personnel.
29-31
(c) National Structure.
31,32
(a) Orgcnization of the Cavinet Intelligence
Bureau.
32,33
IV.

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
33
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
33
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
33-36
VII. ACTIVITIES OF MERICIN COLMERCIIL INTERESTS.
36
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COIMERCIAL INTERESTS.
36
IX. LABOR.
36
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
36,37

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai Involving
American Marines end Japanese gendarmes.*
Conformably with the Department's instructions, the
Ambas: edor on August 3 made an oral approach to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs concerning the July 7 incident at Shanghai
which followed the arrest of Japanese gendarmes in plain-
clothes by American marines. The Ambassador stated that the
Americen Government, after careful review of the correspondence
between the American and Japanese militery authoritios at
Shanghai, was of the opinion that the attitude of the Amorican
authorities as roflected in thoso communicctions and in the
reports mado to the American Government had beon consistont-
ly restraincd and rocsonable, but that, while not undertaking
to expross an opinion with regard to tho attitudo of the
Japanese authorities: the Americen Govornment hed notod with
regret that the tone of end the languege usod in somo of the
Jepanese communications was of & cheracter tonding to nullify
efforts to offect a local settloment of tho incident. It wes
pointcd out that should no basis exist upon which local
adjustment of such incidents could be oxpocted, it would be
necessary to tako up the questions through diplomctic chan-
nels which oftentimes medo settlemont more difficult. Mr.
Grew went on to point out thet the Minister for Foroign
Affairs vith his knowledge of the Americen people, should
realizo the unfortunete effect upon American public opinion
whioh
*Department's telegrams Nos. 287, August 1, noon, and 286,
July 31. Embassy's telegrams Nos. 650, August 2, 5 p.m.;
661, August 3, 5 p.m.; 671, August 7, 7 p.m.; 678, August
9, midnight; 718, August 20, 8 p.m.; Embassy's despatches
Nos. 4916, August 14, 1940; 4934, August 22, 1940.

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
which would inevitably result should the language used by the
Japcnese authorities in Shenghai in addressing Americen of-
ficicls hecome known to the American public. The Ambassador
emphasized thet as hed already been publicly steted by the
Secretery of Stete, the Americen Government desired that a
local settlement be reachcd and perceived no recson why the
communicction of Admirel Glessford on July 29 to General
Fujitc should not satisfcctorily close the incident.
The Ambassador impressed upon the Ministor for Foreign
Affcirs the rocsoncble cnd restreined ettitude of the Ame-
ricen suthorities in contrast with the attitude of the
Japaneso authorities and improssed upon the inister the
importance of considering the incident closed. Mr. Matsuoka
agrecd cntirely with the desirability of recching a locel
sattlement cnd scid that he would immediately meko offorts
in that direction. In explanation of the lengucge employed
by tho Japanoso authoritics, the Minister for Foroign Af-
fairs expressed the opinion thet it was probably due entirely
to langucge difficulties end said that Jepenese officicls
ofton write in bombastic style which when conveyed in Japc-
nese carriod littlo meaning but when translated into English
might convey on excegorated impression. The Imbessedor
replied that certcin expressions used by the Japeneso were
entiroly too definite cnd diroct to be minimized by the
Minister's explenation.
During the Imbessador's call on tho Minister for
Foreign Affairs on enother subject on August 7, Mr. Matsuoka
referred to the approach mode by the Ambassador on August
3 and said that ho was informed that although complete set-
tlement

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
tloment of the incidont hed boon reached in conversetions
between Colonel Peck and Major Generel Miura on August 1
and 2, rnd although they hed been on tho point of signing,
word had been recoived from the Dopartmont of Stste that
the question was being taken up diplomaticclly εt Tokyo
and that it wes therefore nocessary that the locel settle-
ment be deleyod. The iubassedor repliod that thero must
bo e complete misundorstending because in his roprosenta-
tions he had impressed upon tho Minister for Foreign
Affeirs the importence of rerching c local sottlement and
hed in offect merely asked the Minister to "oil tho wheels".
Mr. Metsuoka agroed and said this was also his understand-
ing and expressed the hope that appropriate explanations
would result in an early closing of the incident. The
Ambassador agreed to telegraph immediately to the Depart-
ment of State and to the Consul General at Shanghai.
On August 9 and agcin on August 20 members of the
Embassy were informed by the Foreign Ofrice that according
to reports from the Japanese authorities at Shanghai they
were still under the impression thet the American authorities
there were acting under instructions which prevented the
acceptance of the settlement agreed upon by Admiral Glassford
and Commander Kuwabeta. The Embassy continued to emphasize
that a local settlement was desired. The incident wes not
the subject of further convorsations at Tokyo during the
month of August.
a
(b)

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
(b) Shunghai Defenso Sector.*
Conformably with te Department's instructions, the
Eabassy on August 15 approached the Foreign Office vith
the request that the representetions made be brought promptly
to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In
these ropresentations it was stated that the United States
Governmont had been informed that there would take place
on August 15 ε moeting of the interested commanders at
Shenghai to consider revision of the defenso sectors with
regard to the offer of the Commender of the Americcn Marine
forces there to take over the defense soctors then cssigned
to the British forces. The hope rnd expectation of the
Americen Government was expressed thet a new crrengement of
the defense sectors would be worked out in a spirit of good
will and cooperation, conformcbly with thc principles under-
lying the international character of the Setilament and
with practicel considerctions.
Shortly after these representations had been delivered
to the Foreigu Ofrice a member of the Enbsssy staff was
requested to call and it was explained that the Jrpanese
Goverauent was displeased that Colonel Peck hea ruguested
the calling of the meeting on August 12 cnd had proposed
thet the American forces take over the defense of the sectors
assigned to the British forces. Surprise w:s expressed that
such action had been taken in disregerd of Jepanese protests
of the short notice which had been given and the Japanese
opinion
*Department's telegram No. 362, August 13, 3 p.m., to Shanghai;
Imbassy's telegrams Nos. 700, August 15, 1 p.m.; 70l, August
15, 6 p.m.; 705, August 16. Department's 313, August 17, 2
p.m. mbassy's Nos. 709, August 18, 5 p.m.; 710, August 18,
6 p.m.; 711, August 19, noon, 717, August 20, 7 p.m.; 719,
August 20, 11 p.m. Department's 319, August 21, 6 p.m.
Mmbassy's 743, August 24, 4 P.m.; 749, August 26, 3 p.m.
Department's 321, August 23, 6 p.m.; Imb. 756, Aug. 20, 11 p.m.
Department's 326, August 28, 7 p.m.; 328, August 29, 7 p.m.

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
opinion that such a meeting should heve been convened by Rear
Admiral Takeda as the senior officer at Shenghai.
The
Foroign cffice official went on to inguiro whsther she oral
statement which had been delivered oy the Frbessy was meent
to convey the approvel of the Americaln Govcrnment of Colonel
Peck's action and to be diplonctic intervention to ottain
agroement on the basis of the proposal made ct the meeting on
August 12.
Mr. Crocker, First Secretary of Embassy, replied that
the oral representetions were in no sense diplometic inter-
vention but wero meroly an official expression of hopo and
expoctation thet en agrecment would be rocched in ho spirit
end on the besis indiceted in those representations.
The
Foreign Office officicl replied thet no instructions had
been sent to the Jepanese authorities in Shanghai but the
result of the meeting of August 15 would be sweited, but
cloarly indicatod thet the American propos-ls would not be
acceptable and that ravision of the defensc soctors et
Shenghai would havo to bo rocched "in the light c the now
existing conditions in Shenghai end in the Fer East".
Conforncbly with the Dopertmont's instructions raceived
on Sundcy afternoon, August 18, tho Embassy immediatoly
erprocched the Foroign Offico, roquesting that tho messegc be
conveyed urgontly to the Minister for Foreign Affeirs as
coning directly from the Ambassador, and stated that the
Government of the United States approved the plen for the
United States forccs to take over Sector B at Shanghai end
hoped thet the Japanese Government would give at least its
tentative

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
tentativo approval and would not oppose tho teking over of
Soctor B, by the United States forces pending finel decision
rogarding the metter. It wes pointed out that the Americen
Government considered the plen end procodure ontirely reason-
able end hoped that the Japaneso Govornment would teke the
same view. The Foreign Office official approached while
stating that ho was speaking without authority and giving
merely his own opinion, said that ho did not bolieve the
Japanese Government would consider even tentativo approval
of tho occupation of Sector B by Anericen forccs. He
requested that the Embassy telegraph urgently and advise that
no Imerican forces be movod into Defense Sector B following
withdrcwel of the British troops. He indiccted thet such c
move woula be opposed by the Japcnese forces. The private
views of this officiel were a short time later confirmed by
the Minister for Foreign Affcirs. The Eabcssy wes also
informed that the Minister could not understend the reasons
for the procipitate cction in this mettor by the American
Government.
On tho following day, as instructed by tho Department,
the Bmbassy informed the Foreign Office thct the Amorican
Govornment in a desiro to recch an enicablo end equitable
sottlenent of the question was preparod to postpone temporerily
the occupction of Sector B ponding the outcomo of discussions
with the Jepeneso Governnent. The Foroign Office wes also
inforned that the United Stetes Navy Dopartnent wes suggost-
ing to Adniral Hert that ho cndoavor to have tho Shanghai
Volunteer Corps take over the dofense of Sector B as a transi-
tory measuro.
The

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
The Foreign Offico expressed its gretificction at the
decision to postpone the occupation of Sector B and addod
that the Japanose Govornnent wcs clso of the opinion that
this question wcs susceptible of cmiceble cnd equitable
settlement. In reply to the Foreign Office's question
whether this matter wos to becono e subject for diplometic
discussions between the Jepeneso end American Governments
or whether conversetions looking to its sottlement would
continue to bo held locally at Shanghai, it was stated thet
in the Embcssy's opinion thore was no intontion to interfere
with continued discussions for ε local settlement at Shanghai.
On August 20 the Embassy received fron the Foreign
Office c docunent nurked "oral" in which the Japanosc Govern-
ment expressed satisfaction et having boen informod of the
hope and expectation of the Americen Govornment that in a
spirit of cooperation end good will ε new arrengement of the
defense sectors at Shanghei woula be worked out. The Jepenese
Government was said to shere this sene hepe and expectation.
The attitude end actions of tho Amorican cuthorities ct
Shenghai did not, however, in the opinion of the Jepanose
Government conforn entirely to thet spirit. Reference wcs
mcde perticulerly to tho celling of e meeting on August 12
by the Americen Commencont without any prelininary oxchcnge
of views; to the clloged rofusal on kugust 15 of Colonel Pock
to oxplain the motivos behina his proposal to the Japenese
Commandont and to the disregerding of the opposition of
Japanese monbors by the Amorican and British members of tho
Shanghai Municipal Council in voting support of the proposal
to

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
to which the Japanese Commandent had not consented. The
statement went on to say that the Japanese authorities in
Shanghai had from the beginning acted in a spirit of coopera-
tion and good will end had been prevented from working out
a fair and reasonable proposal only by the precipitate action
of American authorities in Shanghai. In conclusion, it was
stated that the Japanese Go vernment did not at that moment
consider it necessary that the issue be taken up through
diplomatic channels with the other governments concerned.
On August 27 the Ambassador in an interview with the
Minister for Foreign Arfairs made renewed representations in
the matter of the Shanghai Defense Sectors along lines in
conformance with the Dopartment's instructions. The opinion
was expressed that the American Government, unless the Japa-
nose military euthorities at Shanghai should decide to ro-
consider their position with respect to the proposal for
reallocation of the soctors upon the basis recommended by
the Defense Committee and approvod by the Shanghai Municipal
Council, would seem to have no alternative to presenting its
views to the Japanese Govorment. The Ambassador pointed out
that in the opinion of the American Governmont the proposal
that the Shanghei Volunteer Corps be pormanently chargod with
special protection of Soction B was not practicable in viow
of the special cherecter of the Volunteer Corps. The Ambassa-
dor wont on to say that the Amoricen Government attaches im-
portance to tho reasonable position taken by tho majority of
the Defense Committeo and by the Shanghei Municipal Council
in alloccting Soctor D to tho Japanese forces and Sector B
to the Amorican forces. Mr. Grew emphesized that the United
Statos

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
States Govornmont was of the opinion that all parties having
legitimate interests in the International Settlement should
support and maintain the international character of that
Sottlement. The Ambassador at some length elaborated upon
the cosmopolitan nature of Shanghei and the existence there
of a multiplicity of rights and interests of inevitable con-
cern to many countries. Mr. Grew further pointed to the
necessity of members of the Shanghai Municipal Council
evoiding any involvement in controversial matters arising
from causes outside the Settlement boundaries. He went on
to say that no one Power having interests in the Settlement,
no matter how extonsive they might be, should, because of
developments which have their origin elsewhere, assert a
position which would tend to proscribe or destroy the interna-
tional character of the Settlement.
Reforenco was made by the Ambassador to the extensive
American intorosts in the areas which it hed boen proposed
should bo taken over by the American forces following tho
evacuation of the British. Tho Americen Government, the
Ambessador said, considered the solution thus proposed and
votod by tho majority to be in hermony with the principles
underlying the internetionel cheracter of the Settloment.
The Ambassador loft an informal momorandum with the
Minister for Foreign Affeirs of the above obsorvations and
wont on to tell the Minister orally end informally thet
the Amorican Government considered it important that a solu-
tion be reachod by agreenent upon an equitablo errangoment;
that any other procedure or arrengoment would raise very
serious questions requiring the American Government to
roviso

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
revise the lines of its policy with regard to the protection
of American interests in China, The American Government, for
example, would be compelled to consider making public a full
exposition of the situation. Suen publication would inevitably
call into question the policy of patience which the American
Government would be required to re-examine the many benefits
which have been extended to Japanese commerce and nationals
in the United States to make the treatment of that commerce
and those nationals more nearly reciprocal with the treat-
ment being given by Japanese authorities to American commerce
and nationals in China.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed to do his best
to bring about an amicable and equitable settlement of the
controversy and expressed the opinion that the difficulty
was partly owing to the fact that Japanese military author-
ities were of the opinion that Americen proposals to take over
the sectors had been occasioned by "British intrigue" and
those military authorities regarded Sector B as of greetor
importance than Soctor D. The convorsation continued for
over an hour.
There were no further dovelopments rogarding this
question during the month of August.
(c) Arrest of Associated Press Correspondent,
Mr. Relman Morin.*
Mr. Morin, Associated Press correspondent, Tokyo, was
arrested by the Gendarmerie on the afternoon of July 3l and
was released early in the morning of August 1. In discussing
his arrest with members of the Embassy, Mr. Morin said that
the questioning concerned primarily press reports which he
had
*mabassy's telegrams Nos. 638, August 1, 10 a.m.; 641, August
1. 6 p.m.; 652, August 2, 8 p.m.; 653, August 2, 9 p.m.;
Despatch No. 4954, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-.
had sent concerning the large-scele arrests of British
subjects in Japen. Certain of these reports were alleged by
the gendarmerie to heve been false end to have represented
"irresponsible reporting". The gendarmerie referred in parti-
cular to two despatchos which had been lsbcled as "uncon-
firmed reports" to the effect th:t sixtean persons had been
arrested and thet two were Americcns. Tho officors seemed
to resent strongly what they characterized as Morin's ir-
responsibility in neglecting to verify from official Japa-
nese sources, including gendarmerie headquerters itsolf,
certain reports and rumors which he had obtained from foreign
sources in Tokyo. Mr. Morin replied thet he hed learnod from
experience that reference to official Japanose sources con-
cerning matters under & pross ben was useless.
Although Domoi Nows Agency issued a report shortly
after ten o'clock in the evening thet Mr. Morin had been
released by the gendermorie following his submission of an
apology for submitting erroneous reports, Mr. Morin was in
fact not released until onc o'clock boc use he refusod to sign
a stetement in Japanese which, when interpreted to him, ap-
parently conteined stetements which he hed not mode and which
he wrs unwilling should be attributed to him. Mr. Morin
indiceted that in his opinion the gondermorie fearod the
effect on public opinion in the Unitod Statos of his reports
and thereforo wished him to sign on epology ond to reveal
the sources of his information. He maintcinod that he stead-
festly avoided revoeling any confidentiel sources but that he
did sign en epology for sending.the two above-mentioned un-
confirmod reports. Mr. Morin stated thet "hours" were
devotod

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
devoted to inconsequential and extraneous matters and that
although he was informel he was being treated as leniently as
possirle, the experience had been most trying. The method
of the examination and the phrasing of the questions employed
by the gendarmerie were, according to Mr. Morin, of such a
nature as to leave the subject with a feeling of utter hope-
lessness and frustration. He remarked that even after the
comparatively mild experience through which he had gone he
could understand what Mr. Cox, Reutor's correspondent who
committed suicide during exemination by the gendarmerie, had
faced and the frame of mind which he had reachod.
On August 2 all vernacular newspapers published what
was apparently an inspired story attacking the British
Embassy as being the source of erroneous reports sent to the
United States by the Associated Press and expressing sympathy
for the fact that Mr. Morin had been hoodwinked" by his
sources of information. The press went on to interpret this
alleged disclosure of the British Embassy as the source of
misinformation as evidence that the British Embassy itself
may be the heart of British espionage against Japan". Almost
all newspapers including the ASAHI, NICHI NICHI and HOCHI
printed a practically identical warning that the authorities
would take resolute action" against any foreign correspondent,
irrespeotive of nationality should he be guilty of making
false reports or sending "malicious propaganda" against Japan.
This warning was interpreted by an American correspondent as
indioating that foreign correspondents who sent reports on
the basis of information from sources other than Japanese
official would be subject to the acousation that they were
gui1ty

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
-13-
guilty of distorting facts and publishing "malicious propa-
ganda". If rigorously enforced this might mecn thet foreign
correspondents vould be unable to operste in Jcpan ithout
grave personal åcn~er.
(a) American representations concerning French
Inão-China.
As instructed by the Departnent, the Ambsssedor, on
August 6, called on the ilinister for Foreign 'ffairs and
brought to the latter's attention the reports thich vere
circulating thct Japen had made secret demen's of Frence
in regard to French Indo-China. The Ambossauor referred to
Secretary of State's statements of April 17 nd Hay 11 in
hich were set forth the belief of the Governnent of the
United States thet intervention in comestic affairs of the
Netherlonds Tndies by other than peaceiul processes would
be prejudicial to the cause of stability, peace end security
not only in thit re ion but in the entire 'scific area end
emphasized that that belief anc observetion naturelly apply
also to French Indo-China since the statements contcined
the Americen Government's observation that its belief wss
based upon e coctrine having universel applicction cnd for
vhich the United States une uivocs ly stands. The .mbassedor
conveyed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as under in-
structions, the concern of the Government of the United States
with regard to the cevelopments revorted. The finister re-
plied that (1) he cesired to reserve corment; (2) thet certein
demands
*Jeyartment's telegrem No. 293, Aurust 6, 1 2.m. mbassy's
telegrem los. 672, jugust 7, 10 2.m.; 673, ucust 8, 2 n.m.;
697, August 13. Despatch No. 4935, Lugust 22, 1940.

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
demands had been made on French Indo-China but that he could
not disclose their prec:se nature, and (3) that the various
points in a recent NEW YORK TIMES article were in some in-
stances highly exaggerated and in others entirely devoid of
any foundation. In strict confidence the Minister told the
Ambassador the French Government had already accepted in
principle the Japanese demands.
(e) Reaction in Japan to the American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.*
There was considerable editorial commont folloving the
conclusion of the joint defense agreement between the United
States and Canada. The ASAHI of August 20 similar to other
vernacular newspapers stated that the action was a logicel
stop and not unexpected but urged that while the agreement
had no direct or immediate relationship with Japan, it was
nevertheless necessery for Japan to watch carefully the
diplomatic activities of the United States and of Soviet
Russia in the drastic and rapidly changing world conditions.
The HocHI asserted that the agreement affected not only
the Atlantic but also the Pacific, the West Pecific and the
Continents of Australia, East Asia and Europe. It was pre-
dicted thet e similer egreement uniting tho American and
Australien Continents might be concluded in the future. The
HoCHI went on to say that it was nov: nocossary for the Japa-
nese Government and tho Jepenese people to oxert every offort
to ecquire and ostablish the "grecter East Asia mutucl prospo-
rity sphero.
On August 22 all vernaculer newspapers commentod on the
report thet Greet Britain would lease naval beses in the
Western
*mmbcssy's tologrem No. 716, August 20; 732, August 22, 6 p.m.;
754, August 27, 4 p.m.; 764, August 30, 4 p.m.; 741, August
24, 2 p.m.; 765, August 30, 5 p.m.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
-15
Western Hemisphere to the United States.. The press was in
most cases not radical  r inflammatory in its reaction
but was unanimously firm in the conviction that close rela-
tions between the United States and Great Britain might
seriously affect Japan. It was reported that the United
States and Great Britain were planning to change the status
quo of certain Pacific areas through the leasing or transfer
of actual or possible naval bases to the United States and
alleged that there existed a secret treaty between Great
Britain and the United Stetes for the use of Singapore by
the latter country. All newspapers concluded that Japan
must give the most serious attention to all possible eventuali-
ties which might follow the American-British negotiations.
Throughout the month of August there continued to appear
from time to time in the vernacular press articles emphasizing
the seriousness to Japan of continued development of possiblo
military cooperation between the United States and England.
(f) More Important Representations by the Embassy.*
During the month of August the Embassy formally pro-
tested to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs bombings of certain
properties in China. Representations wore also made con-
cerning the proposed establishment of a regular steamship
service to Sharp Peak, China, for the benefit of the foreign
community thore. A strong protest was mede to the Foroign
Orfice during August concerning tho interference of Japanese
military euthorities in Canton with the Southern Baptist
Mission
*Embassy's tolegram Nos. 702, August 16, 11 a.m.; 738, August
24, 10 a.m.; Dupartment's telegrem No. 315, August 19, 6 p.m.

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Mission Hospital et thet place.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Great Britein.
1. Arrest of British subjects jn Tapen duu Japauese
subjects in British Empire.*
On August 3 all the vernacular newspapers in Tokyo
issued extra editions reporting the arrest of prominent
Japanese in London. This action was considered by the press
to be entirely retaliatory for the arrest of British subjects
in Japan. This original announcement was followed by more
elaborate comment in the press curing the following few days.
The Japanese arrested were said to be prominent businessmen
above any possible suspicion of espionage. Some journals
went so far as to characterize the Biitish action as barbarous
and illegal. Fear was expressed corccrning the possibility
of a grave crisis in Anglo-Japanese rolations should the
question be not promptly settled, and some newspapers even
suggested the nocessity of taking positive measures against
Great Britain. In spito of those instances of somewhat violent
language the goneral undortone of the press was, in fact,
weak. On August 5 the Embassy was informed that three pro-
minent British citizons who had been arrestod in Kobe were
allowed to roturn home. Owing to the fact that some of the
British nationals arrested in Japan might have been in a
position to inform the British authorities concerning actual
transshipments
*Brbassy's telograme Nos. 644, August 1, 9 p.m.; 645, August
1, 10 p.m.; 646, August 1, 11 p.m.; 655, August 3, noon;
€5, August 5, 6 p.m.; 666, August 5, 7 p.m.; 670, August
7. 6 p.m.; 691, August 12, 7 p.m.; 728, August 21, 11 p.m.;
706, August 16, 7 p.m.; despatch No. 4950, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
transshipments of essential materiels, such es tin end rubber,
from Japan to Germany via Siberia, some observers were of
the opinion that these arrests were in some measure at least
the result of German instigation. On August 12 there was
held a "down with Britain" mass meeting sponsored by the
Tokyo anti-British Citizens League composed largely of
members of the Tokyo Municipal Assembly. The press reported
that representatives came from six major cities and more than
30 smaller cities and that the meeting was attended by
thousands of individuals.
Various declarations and resolutions were adopted de-
manding the withdrawal of Great Britein from the Fer East,
encouraging the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Wer, Nevy
and Foreign Affairs to take strong action and urging the
strengthening of the Japan-Gormany-Italy axis. The meeting
was held in the public hall at Hibiya Perk and the generel
erea in the neighborhood was carefully policed by hundreds
of uniformed policemen before the opening of the meeting
which was on the whole orderly and undemonstrative. Thore
was no march on the British Embassy. This meoting in Tokyo
marked the climax of a series of anti-British mcetings which
had been held throughout the Jepenese Empire following the
arrest of Jcpenese nationcls by British suthorities and
was openly pro-maxis with the public hall and the ontrances
to the Park decorated with the three flags of Japan, Germany
and Italy.
Following this demonstration howevor, open expression
of anti-British sentiment noticeably subsided throughout the
country and there were no further public demonstrations
during tho month of August.
on

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
On August 16 the Bureeu of Criminal Affairs in the
Ministry of Justice issued a verbal statement concerning
the death of the former Reuter news correspondent at Tokyo,
Mr. Cox. This statement asserted that it had been establi-
shed that Mr. Cox committed suicide, thet he had left a will
written the morning of his death, that qualified medical
examination revealed no evidence of any mistreatment end,
finally, that among Mr. .Cox's pepers there had been found
much material supporting the charges of espionage.
The Embassy was informed toward the end of August that
the Minister for Foreign Affairs had given assurances that
he would endeavor in an approach to the Minister of War to
expedito investigations of all British subjccts remaining
under detention. There were, however, no further dovelop-
ments of interest during the month of August.
(2) Withdrawal of British military garrisons at
Shanghai, Peiping and Tiontsin.*
On August 10 tho British Embassy delivered to the
Foreign Offico a notification that British troops which had
been meintained in China at Shanghai, Peiping and Tientsin
would be withdrawn. The British Government resorved all its
treaty richts under the Poiping Protocol of September 7, 1901.
The reaction in the vernacular press following the announce-
ment of the British Government's intention to withdraw its
forces in Chinc was distinctly unfavorable to Great Britain.
It was characturizcd as a futile gesture in an attempt to
improve Anglo-Japanese rolations end simultanoously to
strengthen
*Imbassy's telegrams 679, August 10, 11 a.m.; 684, August
11; 712, August 19, 4 p.m.

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.98)
-19
strengthen British colonial garrisons. The press stated
that Great Britain could not expect to improve its rela-
tions with Japan until and unless that country fully re-
cognized the new order in East Asia and cocperated posi-
tively with Japan. The press was also very suspicious con-
cerning the United States and stated that some prior under-
standing between the United States and Great Britain had
probably been reached.
On August 19 the vernacular press stated that as it
had previously predicted and subsequent events had establi-
shed, the British withdrawal of troops from China was only
an expedient measure designed to ameliorate anti-British
sentiment in Japan and to ease the strain of Anglo--Jepenese
relations. Subsequent events, it was reported, had verified
the accuracy of previously expressed suspicion that a secret
understanding had been reached between the United States and
Great Britain, The vernacular press went on to assert that
the responsibility for the preservation of peace and order
at Shanghai lay with the Japaneso forces there end that there
was no legal foundation of the stationing of foreign troops
at Shanghai. It was said that the Japaneso forces intended
to take o ver the general defense of the Internetional Settle-
ment only until such time as the "National Government" at
Nanking wes able to perform those functions.
During the month of August the British Embassy made
representations to the Japanese Government concerning re-
ported demands by Japan against French Indo-Chine
ard

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.98)
1
-20-
and concerning the trade control regulations in North China
which were put into effect during August.
(b) The Netherlands East Indies.*
On August 3 it was reported in the press that General
Koiso, former Minister of Overseas Affairs in the first
Konoye Cabinet (1937-1938) had been offered the position
of official delegate from the J apanese Government to the
Netherlands East Indies and that he would be given broad
powers and the highest rank. The purpose of General Koiso's
mission was said to be to establish the closest political
and economic relations between the two areas on the basis
of mutual interest and position within the sphere of greater
East Asia. At the same time certain newspapers reported
that while en route to Tokyo General Koiso had stated, inter
alia, Japan China and Manchukuo" alone were insufficient for
the construction of an economic zone in Greater East Asia;
that it wes necessary to include the South Seas area; that
from a moral viewpoint the freeing of the Oriental races was
necessary and was destined or realization; that the Nether-
lands Indies had long been exploited as a colony and had been
subjected to "administrative pressure". General Koiso en-
visaged the possibility of friction with the United States
in the execution of this program and said that Japan's re-
solute determination was required.
On August 5 the vernacular press gave considerable
prominonco
*Embassy's telegrams 657, August 3; 664, August 5; 687, August
12, 3 p.m.; 690, August 12, 6 p.m.; 693, August 12; 696,
August 13, 6 p.m.; 698, August 14; 713, August 19; 745,
August 24, 7 p.m.; 750, August 26, 5 p.m.; 761, August 28,
9 p.m.; 762, August 29, 5 p.m.; Despatches Nos. 4915, August
14, 1940; and 4975, September 14, 1940.

=== Page 496 === (confidence 1.00)
-21-
prominence to remarks attributed to General Koiso. He
was reported to have said that prior to economic coopera-
tion between the Netherlands East Indies and Japan it would
be necessary to clarify the political aspects of the question
which would involve third Powers, particularly Germany,
England and the United States. As a prerequisite to this
clarification, General Koiso was said to be of the opinion
that it would be necessary for Japan definitely to decide
its attitude toward those countries. He asserted that Japan
was morally justified in extending aid to areas which have
lost their "overlords". It was pointed out that France and
the Netherlands had capitulated to Germany. General Koiso
went on to say that the areas to the south of Japan could
replace European and American sources of meterials.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the Nether-
lands Government believed, and had so informed the Foreign
Office, that the remarks attributed to General Koiso by the
press, unless retracted, would make his position, should he
be sent to the Netherlands East Indies, "very difficult",
by which it was implied that it would be "impossible". The
Embassy was also confidentially informed that unless a re-
traction of these remarks was published that Government would
not accept General Koiso as e Japeneso delogate. Further
progress in the selection of a delegate to the Netherlands
East Indies was for some time unnoticeablo, but on August 14
tho press reported that General Koiso would not consider ac-
cepting the position unless he were given the broadest powers
and unless negotiations were not restricted to trade in
economio

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
economic matters.
The appointment of the Minister of Commerse and Industry,
Mr. Kobayashi, as the chief of a special mission to the Nether-
lands Bast Indies was announced on August 24. It was also
reported that Mr. Kobayashi would retein his cabinet port-
folio and that the mission would leave at the carliest pos-
sible date. Two days later the spakesman of the Foreign
Office was reported to have said that there hed been no change
in the attitude of the Japaneso Government from that expressod
in a statement issued by the Yonai Cabinet concerning the
status guo of the Netherlends East Indies and added that the
appointment of Mr. Kobayashi was merely to expedite the ne-
gotiations already undertaken. Among the members of the
mission as finally announccd by the Japanese Government were
so-called technical experts from the Foreign Office, Cabinet
Planning Board, Finance Ministry, War Ministry, Navy Ministry,
Commerce and Industry Ministry and the Overseas Ministry.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the accept-
ance of this mission by the Netherlands Government was not
asked, and that the Netherlands Government had merely been
informed that the mission was being sont.
(c) Russia*
Press comment in Japen upon a speech by Commissar for
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Molotcv, given on August 1, was reserved
but in general friendly in reaction. The vernaoular press
insisted that as a primo requisite for improvoment in Russian-
Japanese relations it would be necessary for Russia to give
serious consideration to the cessation of assistance to the
Chiang Kai-shek Government. Adjustment of Russo-Japanese
relations
*Embcssy's telegroms Nos. 662, August 3; 740, August 24, 1 p.m.;
746, August 25, 3 p.m.; 748, August 26, 2 p.m.; 751, August 26,
6 p.m.; Despctches Nos. 4968, September 12;cnd 4967, September
11.1940.

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
relations was also said to be in some measure dependent upon
the attitude of Russia toward other world Powers. The
prospects for the adjustment of those relations were said
to be more cheerful but that certain aspects of Soviet Russia's
demands were still unacceptable to Japan.
The Embassy was informed by a strictly confidential
source on August 25 that the Minister for Foreign Affairs
had said that h had long been an advoeate of rapproehement
between Japan and Soviet Russia and that he still favored
a non -aggressio n pact between that country and Japan. He
was, however, pessimistic concerring the long term of Russo-
Japanese relations. The Minister expressed the opinion that
such difficulties as those over the oil concessions in..
Saghalien would not be settled permanently and that an
eventual conflict between the two countries was inevitable.
He asserted, however, that if Russia and Tapan were able to
compose their differences the Japanese position in the Far
East would become much easier. The Embassy learned at the
same time that the Minister was dissatisfied with Ambassador
Togo's mission at Moscow and that he intended to replace him
with General Tatekawa.
It was reported in the press on August 26 that following
six meetings of the international commission beginning on
August 3 agreement had been reached between Outer Mongolia
and Manchukuo" regarding the border demarcation. The report
added that the commission members were then engaged in
physically marking the border.
(a) French Indo-China.*
On August 7 the ASAHI and other important vernacular
nerspapcrs
*mbassy's telegrams Nos. 669, August 7, 5 p.m.; 676, August
9, 1 p.m.; 680, August 10, 4 p.m.; 685, August 11; 771,
August 31, 8 p.m.

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
newspapers devoted considerable attention to a Domei despatch
from Canton said to be a quotation from tho roport of a
genoral staff momber of tho Japanose Army in South Ciina
following an inspection of tho actual conditions in French
Indo-China. This roport statod inter alia that the friend-
ship of the Fronch Indo-Chineso Govornmont for Jepen was only
superficial and tomporary, that Japan would not bo dcccivod
by tho cttitudo of that Govornmont, cnd that should the Govorn-
mont of Fronch Indo-Chin? tcke cny ction based upon : misccl-
cul tion of its own strongth "futuro h-rm would rosult."
On August 9 tho Ambrss dor w-s informed in strict con-
fidonco by n uthentic sourco th-t & Jrp noso Army Strff
officor who hed boen holding convcrsctions with the Govornor
Gonor:1 of Fronch Indo-Chin had modo cortain milit ry domands
to tho Govcrnor clong thc linos roported in the pross carly in
August -- right of trcnsit of troops, occupction of cirdromos,
otc.
Ecrly in August the somo dcm nds woro convoyed to the
Fronch Amb ssador in Tokyo by thc Ministor for Foroign Affcirs.
The Minister for Foroign Aff-irs t the somo time amphasizcd
that Jcpon is prrticul:rly intorostod in Indo-Chino from an
oconomic point of view. Thoso quostions woro roforrod to
tho Fronch Govornmont ct Vichy cnd simultncously convorsctions
continuod in Fronch Indo-Chinr. On August 10 it was roported
in the verncculcr pross th-t Gonoral Nishihera who hrd re-
turnod to Tokyo following convorsctions with tho Govornor
Gonorcl of Fronch Indo-Chinn had cgnin crrivod at H-noi and
thot

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
that it was expected that negotiations would make rapid pro-
gress. The article alleged that the United States was en-
gaged in obvious attempts to disrupt negotiations between
Japan and French Indo-China. On August 1l the NICHI NICHI
gave considerable prominence to a special despatch from
Berlin reporting that the German Government was paying care-
ful attention to the question of French Indo-China and its
relations with Japan. It was asserted that Germany would
unhesitatingly decline to take an attitude of opposition to
Japan and that Japan and Germany on the occasion of the
opening of the large-scale attack against England would
swiftly conclude an agreement concerning the new orders of
each country and would endeavor to accomplish a "lightning
diplomatic victory". No settlement of this question and no
conclusion to negotintions in French Indo-China were announced
during the month of August.
(e) Latin America.*
There appeared in the press about the middle of August
an announcement that, on the basis of recommendations drefted
at the conference of leading Japanese diplomats to South
America and Central Americe held in Rio de Janeiro in May
and that owing to the conclusion of foreign trade experts
that expension of economic activities including industrial
investments and financial cccommodctions in South cnd Contral
Americc was urgently necesscry, the Ministry of: Foreign
Affairs had given careful study to the question of establish-
ing e permenent organizntion designed to expand trcde with
those areas. The organization would, in cddition to of-
ficials from the Ministry of Foroign Affairs, include repre-
sentetives
*mmb. Tologrem No .704, Aug 16, 6 p.m.; despatch No. 4870,
July 24, 1940.

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
sentatives from other important Government ministries. The
Vice Minister for Foreigr Affeirs would, it was said, act as
Chairman.
(f) China.
1. Military Operations in Chine.
Japanese military operations in China during the month
of August, with the exception of aerial operations, were on
the whole limited to what were cheracterized as "mopping up"
expeditions. More important fighting took place in Central
Hopei and Eastern Shansi in which areas well coordinated and
quite effective raids on railways vere conducted by the Chinese
Eighth Route Army. According to Japanese announcements "mopping
up" operations against those units of the Eighth Route Army
countinued throughout the month of August.
In northeastern Anhwei Province the Japanese Army also
carried out operations against Chinese guerilla forces opera-
ting in that general district.
Navel landing parties during the month of August carried
out a series of minor raids along the South China Coast.
These Japanese marine forces did not attempt to occupy any
territory but merely landed and in raids destroyed some supplies
and then withdrew.
Both thc Japancse Army and Navy air arms continued their
long: distanco raids on Chungking and other points in Szechuan
Province. In addition to those long-range aorial bombing
oporations, tho Army air forccs bombed the communicstions
lines in Kwangsi Province.
The
*Prepared with tho assistance of the office of the Militery
Attaché.

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Tho naval aerial forces dircctod bombing raids against
the Chokiang-Kiengsi Railway.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Government cnnouncements concerning High
Policy.*
The press had for some time anticipetod an announce-
mont in which tho Japenese Government would clarify high
policy, and on August 1st the Cabinet did issue such a
stctement. The stetement in summary wos to the effoct
thnt it was urgently nocesscry for Japan ot tho "historic
turning point in world aff irs" to effect with grent speed
"fundamental ronovations" in all lines of governmont and to
strive for the perfoction of a stetc structure for national
dofenso of the highest order. The first step in Japan's
policy looking to the ostablishmont of stable world peaco was
to be to create "a now order in Greater East Asia on the
foundation of solidarity botwoon and among Japan, Manchukuo
and China." With rogard to fo reign policy, the Government's
statement may be quoted as follows: "Japan's foreign policy
which aims ultimately at the construction of a new order
in Greater East Asia will be directed, first of all, to
a complete settlement of the China Affair and the advance-
ment of the national fortune by taking a far-sighted view
of the drastic changes in the international situation and
formulating both constructive and flexible measures." With
regard to internal administration, the Government's state-
ment said that the realization of the following points was
expected:
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 640, August 1, 5 p.m.; 642, August
1, 7 p.m.; 654, August 2; 683, August 11, noon.

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
expected:
"(a) renovation of educetion;
(b) establishment of a powerful new political struc-
cture and a qualified control of Government affairs
(this to include renovation of the Diet and
reformation of buroaucratic and administrative
organs);
(c) building of a national defonse economy;
(a) ronovation of tho living mode of the nation and
the maintenance of a standard of living as will
enable tho nation to lead a plain, solid and
vigorous life and to surmount the national crisis
by porsevering truly through years of hardship."
Tho Minister for Foreign Affeirs issued a statoment on
August 1 in which ho urged national unity with a view to
offecting Jepan's foreign policy which, he said, "at prosent
is to establish ε groet East Asian chein of common pros-
pority with the Jepan, "Menchukuo" and Chine group as ono
of the links". Tho Minister also said thet the Japanese
Government should strive with courage and determinction to
cchiove its goal "in concert with those friondly Powers
which ere prepcred to cooperate with us".
The vernacular press in commenting on the statements
issued on August 1 was in general .critical and in some
instences cntagonistic. A furthor clarificction of the
Government's viows cnd cn expression of concreto measures
which wero to be taken was desired. The YOMTURI interpreted
tho statoments as indiceting thet thore would be c drastic
change in diplomatic policy end that thenceforth Japen
expocted to adopt a "strong policy" towara all Powers op-
posing this country.
On August l0 the Minister for Foreign Aff:irs discussed
Jepanese

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
Jepanese foreign policy in gonorclly ebstract torms during
a press interview. He was reported to have described the
complicated international situation as "rich in unforeseen
opportunities" and to have said that it was necessary to
achieve the new internal organization and to realize the
establishment of a "sphere of mutual prosperity in Greater
Bast Asia." As a part of Japan's positive diplomacy the
Minister reportedly stated that Japan would cooperate
actively with friendly nations of a similar mind. Japan's
relations towards the great powers were being carefully
observed and analyzed but the time was said to be then not
opportune to reveal publicly the results of those obeerva-
tions and analyses.
(b) Changes in Foreign Office and Foreign
Service Personnel.*
Early in August, the appointment of Mr. Chuichi Ohashi,
formerly Counselor to tho Government of "Manchukuo" as Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs was announced. On August 23
there appeared in the pross announcements of the recall of
the great majority of Japanese Ambassadors, Ministers, and
many other high-ranking Jepanese Foreign Service officials.
The subject was sensationally treated by the press and was
reported as "an unprecedented and drastic shakeup in Foreign
Service personnel". There was, however, no putright criticism
of the step taken and there were only a few veiled and in-
definite queries as to the advisability of the measure.
It
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 651, August 2, 6 p.m.; 736, August
23, 4 p.m.; 737, August 23, 7 p.m.; 758, August 28, 6 p.m.;
767, August 30, 7. p.m.; 656, August 3; 769, August 31; 770,
August 3, 7 p.m.

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
It was characterized as the first step toward a "renovation
in Japan's diplomatic policy". New "young end vigorous" re-
presentetives of Japan were expected to be appointed not
only from the career service buy also from cutside circles.
At the same time reports were hoard that many officials
in the Foreign Office would be transferred or would resign.
All newspapers generally agrced that these drastic changes
were decided upon by the Foreign Minister and his Vice
Ministor, Mr. Ohashi, with the assistanco of a few intimate
advisors and that final decision was taken in carefully
guarded secrecy. Mr. Ohashi was quoted by the press as
laughingly announcing that he himself was directly respon-
sible for the recall orders. The Foreign Office spokesman
was said to have told foreign correspondents thet the new
Japanese Ambassador to the United States wculd be appointed
soon and that the changes were "merely routine". The ap-
pointments of Mr. Toshio Shiratori, formor Imbassedor to
Itely, and well-known cdvocete of close relations with the
Axis Powors, ond Ryooi Seito, formor Director of tho Com-
mercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, a director of the
South Manchuria Railway Company in 1927, and adviser to the
Commanding Headquarters of the Kwangtung irmy in 1929, as
diplomatic advisers to the Foreign Office were published in
the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on August 28.
On August 30 further sweeping appointments and transfers
were announced, including the appointment of Mr. Matsumiya
as Imbassador-at-large to the South Seas and Inaia. The
press expected that these reforms would successfully
"eliminate

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
"eliminate traditional diplomats" brought up under the old
school of diplomacy of Japan's economic dependence on Great
Britain and the United States. It was further expected that
young officials in the Foreign Office and Foreign Service
would be given training in nationalistic principles.
At the end of August there were current in Tokyo many
rumors concerning the now Japanese Ambassador to be appoint-
ed to the United States. It was said that the position
had been offered to one or more individuals but that no one
had accopted.
(c) New National Structure.*
On August 28 Prince Konoye issued a statement prior to
the opening of the first session of the Preparatory Com-
mittoe on the establishment of the new structure. This
statement in surmary was as follows:
"If Japan is to bring the China Affair to a
successful conclusion and to tako an active part
in the establishmont of a new world order Japen
must perfect a national defense structure of the
highest degree. The basis of such a structure is
c powerful internal structure. This is indeed a
netionel demand. It is not a domend of a tomporcry
cherccter but of a permanent one. Whether or not
Jepan can ostablish such n strong national structure
will decide the very riso or fall of the netiona.
Among the items to be considerod (are) harmonious
cooperation between the High Command and the administra-
tive branch of the Government, the consolidation of
State mechanisms and the heightening of efficiency and
the establishment of a new Parliamentary structure as
an organ for assisting the Throne. The aim of the
new national structure is to unite the total energies
of the state. The organization of the nation must
therefore extend to the economic and cultural spheres.
There must be a solid nation-wide structure in which
all component parts are organized vertically, and
they are also bound together horizontally. A definite
national movement is necessary for the successful
realization of this national structure. Such a
movement
*3mbassy's tolograms Nos. 759, August 28, 7 p.m.; 780
August 28, 8 p.m. Dospatch No. 4946, Soptembor 5, 1940.

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
movement should spontaneously spring from the people
themselves. If it is planned or guided by the Govern-
ment, or it is giren anadministrative structure, it
may hinder the spontaneous manifestation of the people's
energies. The present circumstances, however, do not
allow us to rely only on the spontaneous develop-
ment of such a movemont. Mercovor, agitations from
bolow, aro liable to dcgencrate into factionel strifes
and fail to expand into a rcally national movemont. The
Govornment have thus found it nocessary to take posi-
tive steps for fostering and directing this movement.
This movement is a common undertaking of both the
Government and the people: it is a nation-wide move-
mont to assist the Throne. The new national structure
movement aims at superseding the old party politics
postulated upon liberalism. When such a movement
is led by tho Government itself it cannot in any
sense be a party movement. Noither can it be allowed
to tako tho form of a single party system. No matter
what brilliant results such a system may have reaped
in other lands, it is not acceptable in Japan because
it is contrary to the basic principle of our national
polity of 'One Sovereign over all'. In Japan it
is the privilege of all His Imperial Majesty's
subjects to assist the Throne and that privilege
cannot be monopolized by the power of either a single
individual or a single party. If there should arise
a difference of opinion concerning the assistance
to be offered, the final decision would rest with the
Throne. And once an Imperial decision has been
given, all subjects of the Throne should unite in
obeying His Majesty's word, That is the true essence
of Japanese polity."
Although the sessions of the Preparatory Committee
began there were no significant developments nor was there
any clarification of the "new national structure" during
the month under review.
(a) Organization of the Cabinet Intelligence
Bureau.*
In line with the general tendency in Japan toward a
centralization of control and administration, the proposal
was made in the latter part of August to organize a Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau which would take over, it was report-
ed, the activities of the Army and Navy Intelligence
Bureaus
*Embassy's telegram No. 723, August 21, 7 p.m.

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
-33-
Bureaus and part of the functions of tho Information Bureau
of the Foreign Office as well as certain intelligence func-
tions of the Homo Office and the Communications Ministry.
The first meeting to decide upon the organization of this
Bureau was held at the officiel residcnce of the Prime
Minister on August 2l. One of the functions of this bureau,
it was said, would be to exerciso stricter censorship of
erticles appecring in the vornacular prcss. Tho Embassy
had observed during August a growing scercity of political
articles and independont editoricl writing on the part of
the vernecular press.
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
Nothing to roport.
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
Nothing to report.
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
On August 1 an official nnouncement was mado con-
cerning the new Governmont's bosic economic policies. Those
policios included the following objoctives: improvement
of nstionel defonse fecilities through the cutonomous
development of the economy of the yen-bloc cres; the perfec-
tion of unitery control system of production, distribution
cnd consumption of important commoditics; thc utilization
of finencial strength towards tho development of the nation'
economic power; cdaptation (nd change of Jcpen's foreign
trade policy to meet the now world situstion; the attein-
ment
*Prepared with tho assistence of the Office of the Commercicl
Attaohé.

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
-34-
ment of self-sufficiency in important daily necessities,
particularly foodstuff; expansion of heavy industries,
particularly chemical and machine industries; expansion
of communication and transportation facilities and the
establishment of land development plans. These policies
did not represent, on the whole, any significant changes
from previous broad policies announced by the Government
and the general reaction in the press was to emphasize
that the Japanese people desired a program and policies
designed to cope with immediate problems rather than
policies which represented an ideal to be accomplished over
a long period of time.
During the month of August business and industrial
circles in Japan were frankly apprehensive regarding the
futuro course of Government control over their activities
and the possible involvoment with third Powers over the
question of Japanese entrance into French Indo-China. The
share market was generally weak and leading speculative
issues reached their lowest price levels at the end of the
month since the outbreak of the European hostilities.
On August 29 Prime Minister Konoye announced more
rigid price control for the trade in the yen-bloc area, the
oxtonsion of strictor official control over numerous industries
and tho functions of various trade organizations and businoss
concerns. Immediately after this Government announcoment,
shares of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the so-called "barometer"
of the market, dropped from Yon l26 to a record low of Yen
109.
During

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.98)
-35-
During August official pricos on frosh goods wore
ordored reducod from 20 perccnt to 50 percent bolow the then
prevailing lovels.
Manufacturers of goods which wero banned by the "anti-
luxury" logislation of July 7 wer: roportsaly facing grave
difficultics sinco no official action lhed been taken to
finance theso producers through tho difficult period of
transition to some industry not bannod undor officiel con-
trol. Partially as a result of this situation crodit and
colloction conditions worsened during August and the number
and value of dishonored bills reached the highest levels in
rocent yuers.
Finencial Conditions.
During the month under reviow the rete of national
bond absorption wcs charactcrized as "poor" -- 71 por cent
as comperod with 104.5 per ccnt during the month of July.
Averago daily note issuc of the Bank of Jep:n reached
c new high lovol during August -- yen 3,329,000.
Whlosclo prices wore roported to have cdvanced .1 per
cont over July cnd 7.2 per cent over the corresponding month
in 1939. Retcil prices declined .2 per cent from the
previous month, July, but were 13.9 per cent higher than in
August 1939. Thore woro slight ains in tho living costs of
both laboring cnd salrried clcssos. Shcre prices εvorcgod a
1.9 porcent e in over tho month of July cs a result of the
distinct upwcrd trend in tho first-hclf of August but, as
pointed out previously, stock prices declined sherply toward
the close of August.
Foroign

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
Forsign Trado.
Preliminary returns for foreign trcdo for the Japanese
Empire during the month of August were exports Yen 317,693,000;
imports Yen 286,294,000 as compered witi July exports Yen
358,292,000; imports Yen 281,598,0C0.
VII. ACTIVITIES OF AMERICAN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to report.
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COMMERCIAL INTERESTS.
Nothing to roport.
IX.
LABOR.
Nothing to report.
X. MISCELLANEOUS.
On August 24 the Ambassador was informed by a foreign
bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church that an under-
standing had been reached between the gendarmerie and the
senior Japanese Bishop, Naide, under which in order to fore-
stall pressure against the church no foreigners would there-
after be allowed to have charge of a diocese or a church in
Japan and all financial assistence from abroad would be
refused.
This movement ageinst foreign missioneries, it was
believed, resulted from or attitude of the Japanese mil-
itery authoritics that (a) the Christian Church is dissemina-
ting propagandε fevorable to the United States and Great
Britain which dissemination is contrary to nctionel policy
and inimical to Japan, (b) finencial support from abroad
is likely to result in the control hy foroign interest of
Japanese

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
Japanese clergymen receiving such support and (c) all
foreign missionaries a'e potential spies.
This movement began early in August with the arrest
of the leaders of the Salvation Army. It was reported that
the Methodist Church would be next to be "purged" by the
gendarmerie. Leading missionaries were of the opinion that
this movement would mark the end of missionary activities
in Jap an.
On August 30 there was reported the meeting of 50
representatives of various Christian organizations in
Japan under the chairmanship of Mr. Abe, President of the
Federation of Christian Churches in Japan. The meeting was
called for the purpose of adopting a common policy for
Christian churchcs in Japan which would be conformeble to
the "new netional structure." It was reported that
offorts would bo made to have the various Christian sots
amalgamate into one organization and that all foreign
assistance and influence would be eliminated from Chris-
tian endeavors. The meeting adjourned without achieving by
concrete results but wes scheduled to be reconvened on
September 2 for further discussions of this question as well
as of Christian missionary activities in Mcnchukuo" and
Chine.

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
Despatches sent to the Department
August 1940
NO.
Date
Subject
4876
August 1
American property losses
in China--Settlement of
claims through local ne-
gotiations.
4877
August 1
Dr. Cherles L. Gillette,
'amoi--Japenese bombing of
property of.
4878
August 1
Seventh Day Adventist Mis-
sion--Japanese bombing in
Chungking.
4879
August 1
Intorest of Nenyang Brothers
Tobecco Co., Ino., in certsin
properties at Hankow.
4880
Aucust 1
Clinping from The Janan Ad-
vertiser of July 12, 1940,
entitled "U.S. Thought Lager
to Settle Issues".
4881
August 1
Accounting instruction; pay-
ments on Fowers of Attorney
to authorized agents.
4882
August 2
Home leave granted r. Doneld
I. Lemm, Foreign Service
Officer.
4883
August 2
Covenent issionary Society
at Kiengling (Kingchow)--
Japanese bombing of.
4884
August 3
Diplometic visa report.
4885
August 3
Application by . Dixon
Ldwards, Foreign Service Of-
ficer, for third year of
lenguage study.
4886
August 5
Copies of paraphrased tele-
grans, received through the
British Embassy et Tokyo,
reporting the con'ersation
on June 28, 1940, between
the Dritish Ambassedor at
ashington with the Secretary
of State.
4887
August 5
Visit to Japan of Frofessor
Salvador Liassip, Havana, Cuba:
Newspeper clipping reporting
interview with Dr. Massip.

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
4888
August 5
Trade mark protection on
behalf or Greenfield Tap &
Die Corporation.
4889
August 5
Confidential menorandum signed
by Japenese Linister and
Eritish Ambassador regarding
the closure of the Burma Route.
4890
August 5
Three newspaper certoons from
The Japan Times of July 19,
July 30, and August 2, 1940,
devoted to the United States.
4891
August 5
Text of the reply of the
Netherlands Government to the
Jspanese Governnent's note
dated June 28, 1940.
4892
August 6
Transmission of specimen Jape-
nese Passports.
4893
August 6
Renort received from the Ameri-
can Consulate at Negoye rela-
ting to the Southward advence
movenent plens of the Japa-
nese ilitary.
4894
August 6
Christian and iässionary
Alliance, Luichow--Japanese
bonbing of.
4895
August 6
Lvangelioal Lutheran Church
iission, Icheng--Japanese
bonbing of.
4896
August 6
Lethodist Episcopal Lission,
Chungking, Jenanese bonbing
of.
4897
August 6
American Bible Society, Chung-
king, bombing of.
4898
August 6
Letters exchanged in 1917 be-
tween I.r. A. Barton Hepburn,
Baron Eiichi Shibusawa and
Baron K. Yanagawa, President
of Tokyo Imperial University
re esteblishment of hepburn
Profeseorship.
4899
August 6
Cummary of speech delivered
by Count Ilichimasa Soejima,
nember of the House of Peers,
on Jenuary 27, 1934.
4900
August 6
Fall of the Yonai Cabinet and
formation of the second Konoye
Cabinet.

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
4901
August 6
Tribute to the late Prince
Iyesato Tokugawa--broadcast
to the Unite& States, July 5,
1940.
4902
August 7
Clipping from the Jepan Ad-
vertiger üated July 31, 1940,
entitled "Iletanorphosis Seen
in Japanese Ideas".
4903
August 7
lemorandun of conversation be-
tween the American Ambassador,
Ir. Crew, and the Linister for
Foreign Affairs, Lir. Matsuoka,
on July 26, 1940.
4904
August 7
Seventh Day Adventist Mission,
Chungking, bombing of.
4905
August 8
Exchange of notes between the
French Ambassador and the Japa-
nese Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs relating to the settle-
ment of difficulties involving
the French Concession at
Tientsin.
49C6
August 8
Lutheren United iission, Chu-
matien, bombing of.
4907
August 8
Request of Sir George Sansom
for advice concerning & visa
for entrance into the United
States.
4908
Aucust 8
Clipping from The Japen Times,
Lugust 5, 1940, entitled
"Realism Slated to Guide U.S.
Gastern Policy".
4909
August 8
Form of official bond of ir.
'illiam T. Turner, Foreign
Service Officer.
4910
August 8
Conversation between Mr. Dooman,
Counselor of Mabassy, and Mr.
Yoshizawe, Sireotor of the
American Bureau of the Foreign
Office, August 6, 1940.
4911
August 10
Diplomatic visa report.
4912
August 12
Transmitting menoranda of con-
versations between the American
Ambassador and the Japanese
lfinister for Foreign Affairs on
July 26 and August 3, 1940.
4913
August 12
Request for special allotment
for replacement of two trees
.in the garden of the mbassy.

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
4914
August 13
Trensmitting nevspaper article
reporting comment of lr. Tamon
Laeda, head of the Japan In-
stitute in Nev York, now visi-
ting Japan.
4915
August 14
Trensmitting co y of letter from
the Netherlands inister to the
Ame ican Anbassador covering a
copy of the note of May 20, 1940,
to the Netherlands ilinister from
the Japanese Minister for Foreign
ffairs.
4916
August 14
Transuitting memorandum of con-
versation between the American
Ambassador and the Japanese
linister for Foreign iffairs on
August 3, 1940.
4917
August 16
Jepan's iJew Genro.
4918
August 17
Diplometic Visa Report.
4919
August 17
Case of interpreter Matsuo of
the American Consulate at Taihoku.
4920
August 19
Damage sustained by the Boone
Library School of The American
Church iis:ion es a result of
Jepanese aerial bombing on June
28, 1940.
4921
August 19
Danage sustainea by the American
Baptist Foreign Lissionary So-
ciety at Chengtu, Szechuan Pro-
vince, as e result of Japanese
aeriai bombing on July 24, 1940.
4922
August 19
Demage sustained by the Chungking
High School of the American Metho-
dist Mission as a result of Japa-
nese aerial bombing on August 9,
1940.
4923
August 21
Ocean Freight Rates on Phosphate
Rock.
4924
August 28
Trensmitting copy of mbessy's
renresentations to the Japanese
Foreign Office in the case of
inconvenience caused by Japanese
military foroes to the Americen
Southern Beptist iission Hospital
at Canton.
4925
August 28
Transmitting copy of the Imbassy's
note to the Foreign Minister with
regard to stationing of U.S. Coast
Guard vessels in the North Atlan-
tio for purposes of weather ob-
servation.

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
4926
August 28
Proposed regular steamship ser-
vice to Sharp Peak, China: Bri-
tish and Amerioan representa-
tions.
4927
August 30
United States Government Publi-
cations.
4928
August 30
Comments on the "New Structure".
4929
August 30
Shanghai Defense Sectors: Trans-
mitting copies of the Ambassador':
memorendum of conversation with
the Japanese Foreign Minister on
August 27, 1940, end Memorande
of conversations between ir.
Crocker, first secretery of
mbessy, and various officers of
the Foreign Office.
4930
August 30
Chemical Construction Corpo-
retion - Yungli Chemical In-
uustries, Limitea, Contract.
4931
August 30
Radio aadress of r. Yakichiro
Suma, Director of Information
Bureau of the Foreign Office,
August 20, 1940, concerning
American-Japanese relations.
4932
August 31
vistribution of publications for
Federal Power Commission.
4933
August 31
inti-British Agitation in Japan.
4934
August 22
Transmitting memoranaum of con-
versation botween the American
Ambassador and the Japenese
inister for Foreign Affeirs on
August 7, 1940, Shenghai incident
of July 7.
4935
August 22
Trensnitting memorandum of con-
versation held betwean the Ame-
rican Ambessador end the Japanese
linister for Foreign Affairs on
August 7, 1940: Reported secret
demands received by France from
Jepan in regard to French Indo-
china.
4936
August 24
Record of transfer of consuler
property in Yokohema.
4937
August 24
Diplomatio visa report.
4938
August 26
Report of conditions in Japan
during the month of June 1940.
4959
August 31
British-Japaness negotiations
regarding olosing of the Burma
route.

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
4940
August 31
Jepanese demands in regard to
French Indoohina.
4941
August 31
British representations concern-
irg anti-British activities in
North China.

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
Telegrams sent to the Department
August 1040
No.
Date
Subject
637
August 1, 9 a.m.
Deportation from Taiwan of Mr. and
Mrs. Sever and Mr. Pattison
638
August 1, 10 a.m.
Detention of Mr. Morin
639
August 1, 4 p.m.
Froposed arrangement to recognize
dual commissions of consular officers
640
August 1, 5 p.m.
Foreign Office announcement of
Japan's foreign policy
641
August 1, 6 p.m.
Detention of Mr. Morin
642
August 1, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
Japan's foreign policy
643
August 1
Press comment on Foreign Linister's
statement
644
August 1, 9 p.m.
Arrest of British subjects accused
of espionage
645
August 1, 10 p.m.
Arrest of British subjects accused
of espionage
646
August 1, 11 p.m.
Ditto
647
August 2, 4 p.m.
Visa for Mr. J. Bidsdale
648
August 2, 5 p.m.
British-Japanese relations
649
August 2, 6 p.m.
Ambassador's toast to the President
at Amerioan Club July 4.
650
August 2, 5 p.m.
Ambassador's call on Foreign Minister
651
August 2, 6 p.m.
Appointment of Chuichi Ohashi
as Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs
652
August 2, 8 p.m.
Fress reports relating to detention
of Mr. Morin
653
August 2, 9 p.m.
Ditto
654
August 2
Press coament on statements of
Government and Foreign Minister
655
August 3, noon
Arrest of Japanese in London on
charges of espionage
656
August 3
Reported possibility of Matsuoka
negotiation alliance Germany,Italy.

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
657
August 3
Fress reports Koiso appointment as
delegate Netherlands East Indies
658
August 3, 2 p.m.
Report of Japanese intentions re-
garding Netherlands Indies
659
August 3, 3 p.m.
Ditto
660
August 3, 4 p.m.
Fresident's response to Mr.
Natsuoka's message
661
August 3, 5 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7 involving
U.S.Marines and Japanese gendarmerie
662
August 3
Press comment Molotov speech
663
August 5
Embassy's need of clerical staff
664
August 5
General Koiso's press interview
re Netherlands Indies
665
August 5, 6 p.m.
Fress comment on British arrest of
Japanese accused of espionage
666
August 5, 7 p.m.
Japanese arrest of British nationals
accused of espionage
667
August 6, 11 a.m.
Mr. Schuler's leave of absence
668
August 6, noon
Visa requests - LcGreer
669
August 7, 5 p.m.
Fress report of conditions in
French Indochina
670
August 7, 6 p.m.
Death of Reuter correspondent Cox, anc
detention of other British subjects
in Japan
671
August 7, 7 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7
672
August 7, 10 p.m.
Japanese demands regarding Indochina
673
August 8, 2 p.m.
Fress reports of Ambassador's intervie
with Foreign LMinister re Indochina
674
August 8, 6 p.m.
General John F. O'Ryan's visit to Japε
675
August 9, 11 a.m.
Requisitions
676
August 9, 1 p.m.
Japan-Indochina situation
677
August 9, 5 p.m.
Visa requests - Biondelli

=== Page 521 === (confidence 1.00)
-3-
678
August 9, midnight Shanghai incident of July 7.
679
August 10, 11 a.m.
Withdrawal of British
garrisons from China
680
August 10, 4 p.m.
Japan-Indochina negotiations
681
August 10, 5 p.m.
Japanese demands on French re
Indochina
682
August 11, 10 p.m.
Mr. Dooman's leave of absence
683
August 11, noon
Foreign Minister's press interview
re foreign policy
684
August 11
Newspaper comment on British
withdrawal of forces from China
685
August 11
Fress reports concerning German
attitude re Japan-French Indochina
relations
686
August 12, 1 p.m.
Codes
687
August 12, 3 p.m.
General Koiso's press interview re
Netherlands East Indies
688
August 12, 4 p.m.
Codes
689
August 12, 5 p.m.
Visa - Laptev
690
August 12, 6 p.m.
Foreign Office spokesman's press
interview re South Seas areas
691
August 12, 7 p.m.
Anti-British demonstrations in Japan
692
August 12, 9 p.m.
Paraffine Compenies, Inc.
693
August 12
Possible appointment of General Koiso
as delegate to Netherlands Indies.
694
August 13, 9 a.m.
Foreign Service examination - Mr.Green
695
August 13, 5 p.m.
British representations re Japanese
demands on Indochina
696
August 13, 6 p.m.
Japan - Netherlands Indies
697
August 13
Press comment re American representati
Japan-Indochina negotiations
698
August 14
Press comment: proposed Koiso
mission to Netherlands Indies

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
699
August 14, 6 p.m.
Paraffine Companies, Inc.
700
August 15, 1 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
701
August 15, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
702
August 16, 11 a.m.
Steamship service to Sharp Peak
703
August 16, noon
Interference vith Southern Baptist
Mission liospital, Canton
704
August 16, 6 p.m.
Press reports of Japanese plans for
trade expansion in Latin America
705
August 16
Fress comment: Nanking régime's
demand for witharawal of U.S. troops
fron China
706
August 16, 7 p.m.
Ministry of Justice statement re
death of Reuter correspondent Mr. Cox
707
August 16, 9 p.m.
Export restriction on shipment of
aircraft lubricating oil from U.S.
for Japanese army
708
August 17, noon
Codes
709
August 18, 5 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
710
August 18, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
711
August 19, noon
Shanghai defense sectors
712
August 19, 4 p.m.
Press coument: Shanghai defense sector
713
August 19
Press reports of conference re
Japan's southward policy
714
August 20, 5 p.m.
Japan's rice supply
715
August 20, 6 p.m.
Appointment of first Australian
Minister to Japan
716
August 20
Press coament joint defunse program
Canada United States
717
August 20, 7 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
718
August 20, 8 p.m.
Shanghai incident of July 7.
719
August 20, 11 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
720
August 21, 10 a.m. U.S.representation of British interest

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
721 August 21, 5 p.m.
Japanese demands on Seinan Jo Gakko,
American Baptist missionary school
at Kokura
722 August 21, 6 p.m.
Import control regulations in
North China: British representations
723 August 21, 7 p.m.
Organization of new Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau
724 August 21
Press comment: International
Settlement Shanghai
725 August 21, 8 p.m.
British comment on Japanese attitude
toward Germany
726 August 21, 9 p.m.
Japan - Indochina
727 August 21, 10 p.m.
Comment by a Japanese official on
situation in Europe
728 August 21, 11 p.m.
British subjects under detention
in Japan
729 August 22, 10 a.m.
Stationary supplies
730 August 22, 1 p.m.
Arrest of George L. Holland, jr.
731 August 22
Press comment on United States
export regulations
732 August 22, 6 p.m.
Fress comment: British-American
defense arrangenents
733 August 22, 7 p.m.
Foreign Minister's statement re
South Seas areas
734 ucust 23, 4 p.m.
Arrival of Ambassador Steinhardt
735 August 23, 3 p.m.
Arrival of Messrs. Williams & Schuler
736
August 23, 4 p.m.
New Japanese Minister to Canada
737
August 23, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
738 August 24, 10 a.m.
Steamship service to Sharp Peak
739 August 24, noon
O'Ryan economic mission to Japan
740 August 24, 1 p.m.
Ambassedor's conversation with
the Foreign Minister
741 August 24, 2 p..
Movement in Japan against foreign
missionary activity.

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
742 August 24, 3 p.m.
Accounts
743
August 24, 4 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
744
August 24, 5 p.m.
Embassy office furniture
745
August 24, 7 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands
East Indies
746 August 25, 3 p.m.
Ambassador Steinhardt's conversation
with Foreign Minister Matsuoka
747
August 26, 10 a.m.
Accounts
748
August 26, 2 p.m.
Ambassador Steinhardt's conversation
with Soviet Ambassador
749
August 26, 3 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
750
August 26, 5 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands
Indies: press comment
751 August 26, 6 pm.
Border demarcation agreement,
Manchukuo-Outer Mongolia
752
August 27, 11 a.m.
Natsuoka-Steinhardt conversation
753
August 27, 2 p.m.
Arrival of Minister Wiley
754
August 27, 4 p.m.
Press comment on reported American
Far Eastern policy
755
August 27, 5 p.m.
Personnel
756
August 27, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
757
August 28, 11 a.m.
Assignment of personnel in
government quarters
758 August 28, 6 p.m.
Appointment of Shiratori and Saito
as advisers to the Foreign Office
759 August 26, 7 p.m.
Prime Minister's statement re
new national structure - excerpts
760 August 28, 8 p.m.
Ditto. Full text.
761
August 28, 9 p.m.
Kobayashi mission to Netherlands Indies
762
August 29, 5 p.m.
Ditto
763
August 30, 11 a.m.
Personnel (Schuler's departure)

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
764 August 30, 4 p.m.
Press comment, arms shipments over
Burma Road; U.S.-Great Britain
attitude toward Japan.
765 Augugt 30, 5 p.m.
Status of Christian churches in Japan
766 August 30, 6 p.m.
Shanghai defense sectors
767
August 30, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
768
August 31, noon
Personnel
769 August 31, 6 p.m.
Rumors of appointments of Japanese
ambassadors to Great Britain and
the United States
770 August 31, 7 p.m.
Japanese foreign service changes
771 August 31, 6 p.m.
Japanese relations with French
Indochina

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo, October 8, 1940.
No. 5054
SUBJECT: REPORT OF CONDITICNS IN JAPAN DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUEF 1940
CONFIDENTIAL
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
With reference to the Department's instruction No. 93
of July 23, 1926, I have the honor to transmit herewith the
Embassy's monthly report on conditions in Jepan for the
month of August 1940.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure: Report No. 167
800
MWS:gt
In sextuplicate to the Department.
Copies to Emhessies: Peiping, Chungking, Moscow.
Copy to Legation: Bangkok.
Copies to Consulates General: Shanghai, Tientsin, Mukden,
Harbin, Seoul, Tokyo.
Copies to Consulates: Dairen, Osaka, Kobe, Nagasaki, Nagoya,
Taihoku, Yokohama.
Copy to High Commissioner to the Philippine Islands.
Copy to Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Asiatic Fleet.

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.99)
No. 167
REPORT OF CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
DURING THE MONTH
OF AUGUST 1940

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.99)
I N D E X
ANN D
SUMMARY
Pages
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai involving
American marines and Jepanese gendarmes.
1-3
(b) Shanghai Defense Sector.
4-10
(c) Arrest of the Associatet Fress Cor-
respondent, Mr. Relman Morin.
10-13
(d) American Representations Concerning
French Inao-China.
13,14
(e) Reection in Japan to American Defense
Program of the Western Hemisphere.
14,15
(f) More Important Representations by the
Embessy.
15,16
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES.
(a) Grest Britain.
1. Arrest of British Subjects in
J'pen and Japanese subjects in
the British Empire.
16-18
2. Withdrawal of British military
garrisons at Shanghci, Peiping end
Tiontsin.
18-20
(b) The Netherlands Ecst Indies.
20-22
(c) Russia.
22,23
(a) Fronch Indo-China.
23-25
(e) Latin America.
25,26
(f) China.
26,27
III. INTERNAL FOLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(c) Government Announcement Concerning
High Policy.
27-29
(b) Crunges in Foreign Orfice and Foreign
Service Personnel.
29-31
(c) National Structure.
31,32
(a) Orgcnization of the Cavinet Intelligence
Bureau.
32,33
IV.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
33
IV. COURSE OF LEGISLATION.
33
V. GOVERNMENT FINANCE.
VI. GENERAL FINANCIAL ECONOMIC CONDITIONS.
33-36
VII. ACTIVITIES OF MERICIN COMMERCIIL INTERESTS.
36
VIII. ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN COIMERCIAL INTERESTS.
36
IX. LABOR.
36
36,37
X: MISCELLANEOUS.

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) July 7th Incident at Shanghai Involving
American Marines and Japenese gendarmes.*
Conformably with the Department's instructions, the
Ambasredor on August 3 made an oral approach to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs concerning the July 7 incident at Shanghai
which followed the arrest of Japanese gendarmes in plain-
clothes by Americen marines. The Ambassador stated that the
Americen Government, after careful review of the correspondence
between the Americen end Japanese military authoritios at
Shanghai, was of the opinion thet the attitude of the Amorican
authorities as roflected in thoso communications and in the
reports madc to the American Government had becn consistont-
ly restrained and roesonable, but that, while not undertaking
to expross an opinion with regarå to tho attitudo of the
Japanese authorities: the Americen Government hed noted with.
regret that the tone of end the language usod in somo of the
Jepanese conmunicctions was of & cheracter tonding to nullify
efforts to offect a local settloment of the incident. It wes
pointcà out that should no basis exist upon which local
adjustment of such incidonts could bo oxpocted, it would bc
necessary to tako up the questions through diplomctic chan-
nels which oftentimes medo settlemont more difficult. Mr.
Grew went on to point out thet the Minister for Foroign
Affairs v!th his knowledge of the American people, should
realize the unfortunete effect upon American public opinion
which
*Department's telegrams Nos. 287, August 1, noon, and 286,
July 31. Embassy's telegrams Nos. 650, August 2, 5 p.m.;
661, August 3, 5 p.m.; 671, August 7, 7 p.m.; 678, August
9, midnight; 718, August 20, 8 p.m.; Embassy's despatches
Nos. 4916, August 14, 1940; 4934, August 22, 1940.

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
which would inevitably result should the language used by the
Japcnese authorities in Shanghai in eddressing Americen of-
ficicls hecome known to the American public. The Ambcssador
emphasized that as hed already been publicly steted by the
Secretery of State, the Americen Government desired that a
local settlement be reached and perceived no recson why the
communicction of Admirel Glessford on July 29 to General
Fujitc should not setisfcctorily close the incident.
Thc Ambassador impressed upon the Ministor for Foreign
Affcirs the recsoncble cnd restreined ettitude of the Ame-
ricen euthorities in contrest with the attitude of the
Japeneso authorities and improssed upon the Minister the
importance of considering the incident closed. Mr. Matsuoka
agrecd cntirely with the desirability of recching a locel
settlement end scid that he would immediately meko offorts
in that direction. In explanation of the lengucge employed
by tho Jepanose authoritios, the Minister for Foroign Af-
fairs expressod the opinion thct it was probably due entirely
to langurge difficulties end said thet Japenese officicls
ofton write in bombastic style which whon conveyed in Japc-
nese ccrried littlo meaning but when translated into English
might convey an excggorated impression. The Imbessedor
replied that cortcin expressions used by the Japeneso were
entiroly too definite cnd diroct to be minimized by the
Minister's explenation.
During the Ambessador's call on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs on enother subject on August 7, Mr. Matsuoka
referred to the approach mede by the Ambessador on August
3 and said that ho wes informed that although complote set-
tlomont

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
tloment of the incidont had been reached in conversations
between Colonel Pock and Major Genercl Miura on August 1
and 2, rud although they hed been on the point of signing,
word had boen recoived from the Dopartment of State that
the question was boing taken up diplomaticclly at Tokyo
and that it was therefore nocessary that the local sottle-
ment be deleyod. The Aubassedor rapliod that there must
bo e complete misunderstending because in his reprosenta-
tions he had impressed upon tho Minister for Foreign
Affairs the importence of reeching e local sottlement and
had in offect merely asked the Minister to "oil tho wheels".
Mr. Matsuoka agroed and said this was also his understand-
ing and expressed the hope that appropriate explanations
would result in an early closing of the incident. The
Ambassador agreed to telegraph immediately to the Depart-
ment of State and to the Consul General at Shanghai.
On August 9 and again on August 20 members of the
Embassy were informed by the Foreign Ofiice that according
to reports from the Japanese authorities at Shanghai they
were still under the impression that the American authorities
there were acting under instructions whioh prevented the
acceptance of the settloment agreed upon by Admiral Glassford
and Commander Kuwabata. The Embassy continued to emphasize
that a local settlement was desired. The incident was not
the subject of further convorsations at Tokyo during the
month of August.
(b)

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
(b) Shunghai Defenso Sector.*
Conformably with te Department's instructions, the
Eabassy on August 15 approached the Foreign Office with
the request that the representetions made be brought promptly
to the attention of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In
these ropresentations it was stated that the United States
Governmont had been informed that there would take place
on August 15 e moeting of the interested commanders at
Shenghai to consider rovision of the defenso sectors with
regard to the offer of the Commender of the Americcn Marine
forces there to take ovor the defense soctors thon cssigned
to the British forces. The hope rnd expoctation of the
Americon Government was expressed thet a new crrengement of
the defense sectors would be worked out in a spirit of good
will and cooperation, conformebly with tho principles under-
lying the international character of the Setilament end
with practicel considerations.
Shortly after these representations had been delivered
to the Foreign Office a member of the Embsssy staff was
reguested to call and it was explained that the Jrpauese
Goverauent wes displeased that Colonel Peck hea ruguested
the calling of the meeting on August 12 end had proposed
thet the American forces take over the defense of the sectors
assigned to the British forces. Surprise w:s expressed that
such action had been taken in disregerd of Jepanese protests
of the short notice which had been given and the Japanese
opinion
*Department's tolegram No. 362, August 13, 3 p.m., to Shanghai;
Imbassy's telegrams Nos. 700, August 15, 1 p.m.; 70l, August
15, 6 p.m.; 705, August 16. Department's 313, August 17, 2
p.m. Imbassy's Nos. 709, August 18, 5 p.m.; 710, August 18,
6 p.m.; 711, August 19, noon, 717, August 20, 7 p.m.; 719,
August 20, 11 p.m. Department's 319, August 21, 6 p.m.
Imbassy's 743, August 24, 4 p.m.; 749, August 26, 3 p.m.
Department's 321, August 23, 6 p.m.; mmb. 756, Aug. 20, 11 p.m.
Department's 326, August 28, 7 p.m.; 328, August 29, 7 p.m.

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
opinion that such a meeting should heve been convened by Rear
Admiral Takeda as the senior officer et Shenglai. The
Foroien offico official wont on to inguiro whsther ure oral
statement which had been delivered by the Fmbessy was meant
to convey the approval of the American Govornment of Colonel
Peck's action and to be diplonatic intervention to ottain
agroement on the basis of the proposal made ct the meeting on
August 12.
Mr. Crocker, First Secretary of Embassy, replied that
the oral representetions were in no sense diplometic inter-
vention but wero merely an official expression of hopo and
expoctation thet en agreoment would bo rocched in the spirit
end on the besis indiceted in those representaticns. The
Foreign Office official replied that no instructions had
been sent to the Japanese outhoritios in Shanghai but the
result of the meeting of August 15 would be sweited, but
cleerly indicatod thet the American propos:ls would not be
ecceptable and that revision of the defensc soctors et
Shenghat would have to bo rocched "in the light o the now
existing conditions in Shenghei end in the Far East".
Conformably with the Dopartmont's instructions received
on Sundcy afternoon, August 18, tho Embassy immediately
epproached the Foreign Offico, roquosting that tho mossegc be
conveyed urgontly to the Minister for Foreign Affeirs as
coming directly from the Ambessador, and stated that the
Government of the United States approved the plen for the
United States forocs to take over Sector B at Shanghai and
hoped thet the Japanose Govarnment would give at least its
tentative

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
tentative approvel and would not oppose tho teking over of
Soctor B, by the United States forces pending final decision
rogarding the metter. It wes pointed out that the Anericen
Government considered the plen end procodure ontirely reason-
eble and hoped that the Japaneso Govornment would teke the
same view. The Foreign Office official approached while
stating that ho was speaking without authority and giving
merely his own opinion, snid that ho did not believe the
Japanese Government would consider even tentative approval
of tho occupation of Sector B by Americen forccs. Ho
requested that the Embassy telegraph urgently and ndvise that
no Imerican forces be movod into Defonse Sector B following
withdrcwel of the British troops. He indiccted thet such c
move woula be opposed by the Japcnese forces. The private
views of this officiel were a short time later confirmed by
the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Eabcssy wes also
informed that the Minister could not understend tho recsons
for the procipitste cction in this mettor by tho American
Governmont.
On tho following day, as instructed by tho Department,
the Eabassy informed the Foreign Office thet the American
Government in a desiro to recch an enicable end equitable
settlenent of the question was preparod to postpone temporerily
the occupction of Sector B pending the outcome of discussions
with the Jepanese Governnent. The Foroign Office wes also
inforned that the United Stctes Navy Dopartnent wes suggost-
ing to Adniral Hert thet ho endoavor to have tho Shanghai
Volunteor Corps take over the dofense of Sector B as a transi-
tory measuro.
The

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
The Foreign Offico expressed its gratificction at the
decision to postpone the occupation of Sector B and addod
that the Japanese Govornment wes also of the opinion that
this question was susceptible of emiceble and equitable
settlement. In roply to the Foreign Office's question
whether this matter wos to becono e subject for diplometic
discussions between the Japenese end American Governments
or whether conversations looking to its settlement would
continue to be held locally at Shanghai, it was stated thet
in the Embessy's opinion thore was no intontion to intorfere
with continued discussions for & local settlement at Shanghai.
On August 20 the Embassy received fron the Foreign
Office o docunent murked "oral" in which the Japanose Govern-
ment expressed satisfaction et having been informod of the
hope and oxpectation of the Americen Govornment that in a
spirit of cooperation and good will a new arrangement of the
defense sectors at Shanghei would be worked out, The Jepenese
Government was said to share this scne hope end expectation.
The attitude and actions of tho Anorican cuthorities et
Shenghai did not, however, in the opinion of the Jepanese
Government conform entirely to thet spirit. Reference wes
mrde perticulerly to the celling of e meeting on August 12
by the Americen Commendont without any prelininary exchenge
of views; to the elleged rofusal on hugust 15 of Colonel Peck
to oxplain the motivos behind his proposal to the Japanese
Commandant and to tho disregerding of the opposition of
Japanese members by the Amorican and British members of the
Shanghai Municipal Counoil in voting support of the proposal
to

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
to which the Japanese Commandent had not consented. The
statement went on to say that the Japanese authorities in
Shanghai had from the beginning acted in a spirit of coopera-
tion and good will end had been prevented from working out
a fair and reasonable proposal only by the precipitate action
of American authorities in Shanghai. In conclusion, it was
stated that the Japanese Go vernment did not at that moment
consider it necessary that the issue be taken up through
diplomatic channels with the other governments concerned.
On August 27 the Ambassador in an interview with the
Minister for Foreign Affairs made renewed representations in
the matter of the Shanghai Defense Sectors along lines in
conformance with the Dopartment's instructions. The opinion
was expressed that the American Govornment, unless the Japa-
nose military euthorities at Shanghai should decide to ro-
consider their position with respect to the proposal for
reallocation of the soctors upon the basis recommendod by
the Defense Committee εnd approvod by the Shanghai Municipal
Council, would seem to have no alternative to presenting its
views to the Japanese Govornment. The Ambassador pointed out
that in the opinion of the American Governmont the proposal
that the Shanghei Volunteer Corps be pormanently chargod with
special protection of Section B was not practicable in viow
of the special cherecter of the Volunteer Corps. The Ambassa-
dor went on to say that the Amoricen Government attachos im-
portance to tho reasonable position taken by the majority of
the Defense Committeo and by the Shanghei Municipal Council
in allocating Soctor D to tho Japanese forces snd Sector B
to the American forces. Mr. Grew emphasized thet the United
statos

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
States Govornment was of the opinion that all parties having
legitimate interests in the International Settiement should
support and maintein the international character of that
Settlement. The Ambassador at some length elaborated upon
the cosmopolitan nature of Shenghei and the existence there
of a multiplicity of rights and interests of inevitable con-
cern to many countries. Mr. Grew further pointed to the
necessity of members of the Shanghai Municipal Council
evoiding any involvement in controversial matters arising
from causes outside the Sattlement boundaries. He went on
to say that no one Power having interests in the Settlement,
no matter how uxtonsivo they might be, should, because of
developments which have their origin elsewhere, assert a
position which would tend to proscribe or destroy the interna-
tional character of the Settlement.
Reforenco was made by the Ambassador to tho extensive
American intcrosts in the areas which it hed been proposed
should be taken over by the American forces following tho
evacuation of the British. Tho Americen Government, the
Ambassador said, considered the solution thus proposed and
votod by tho majority to be in hermony with the principles
underlying the internationel cheracter of the Settlomont.
The Ambessador loft an informal momorandum with the
Minister for Foreign Affeirs of the above obsorvations and
wont on to tell the Minister orally end informally that
the Amorican Government considered it important that a solu-
tion be reachod by agreenont upon an equitcble errangoment;
that any other procedure or errengoment would raise very
serious questions requiring the American Government to
roviso

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
revise the lines of its policy with regard to the protection
of American interests in China, The American Government, for
example, would be compelled to corsider making public a full
exposition of the situation. Suen publication would inevitably
call into question the policy of patience which the American
Government would be required to re-examine the many benefits
which have been extended to Japanese commerce and nationals
in the United States to make the treatment of that commerce
and those nationals more nearly reciprocal with the treat-
ment being given by Japanese authorities to American commerce
and nationals in China.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs agreed to do his best
to bring about an amicable and equitabla settlement of the
controversy and expressed the opinion that the difficulty
was partly owing to the fact thet Japanese military author-
ities were of thc opinion that Americen proposals to take over
the sectors had been occasionod by "British intrigue" and
those military authorities regardod Sector B as of greetor
importance than Soctor D. Tho convorsation continued for
over an hour.
There were no further developments rogarding this
question during the month of August.
(c) Arrest of Associated Press Correspondent,
Mr. Relman Morin.*
Mr. Morin, Associated Press correspondent, Tokyo, was
arrested by the Gendarmerie on the afternoon of July 31 and
was released early in the morning of August l. In discussing
his arrest with members of the Embassy, Mr. Morin said that
the questioning concerned primerily press reports which he
had
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 638, August 1, 10 a.m.; 641, August
1, 6 p.m.; 652, August 2, 8 p.m.; 653, August 2, 9 p.m.;
Despatch No. 4954, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-.
had sent conoerning the large-soele crrests of British
subjects in Japen. Certain of these reports were alleged by
the gendarmerie to heve been false and to have represented
"irresponsible reporting". The gendcrmerie roferred in parti-
cular to two despetches which had been lsbeled as "uncon-
firmed reports" to the effect th:t sixteen persons had been
arrested and thet two were Americcns. Tho officors seemed
to resent strongly what they characterized as Morin's ir-
responsibility in neglecting to vorify from official Japa-
nese sources, including gendarmerie headquerters itsolf,
certein reports and rumors which he had obtained from foreign
sources in Tokyo. Mr. Morin replied thet he hed learnod from
experience that refercnce to official Japanose sources con-
cerning matters under & pross ben was useless.
Although Domei Nows Agency issued a report shortly
after ten o'clock in the evening that Mr. Morin had been
released by the gendcrmorie following his submission of an
apology for submitting crroneous reports, Mr. Morin wcs in
fact not released until onc o'clock boccuse he refused to sign
e stetement in Jcpanose which, when interproted to him, ap-
porently conteined stetements which he hed not mode and which
he wrs unwilling should be attributed to him. Mr. Morin
indicated thet in his opinion the gondermerie feared the
effect on public opinion in the Unitod Statos of his reports
and thereforo wished him to sign on epology ond to reveal
the sources of his information. He maintcinod that he steed-
festly avoided revoeling any confidentiel sources but that he
did sign an epology for sending the two above-mentioned un-
confirmed reports. Mr. Morin stated thet "hours" were
devotod

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
devoted to inconsequential and extraneous matters and that
although he was informei he was being treated as leniently as
possirle, the experience had been most trying. The method
of the examination and the phrasing of the questions employed
by the gendarmerie were, according to Mr. Morin, of such a
nature as to leave the subject with a feeling of utter hope-
lessness and frustration. He remarked that even after the
comparatively mild experience through which he had gone he
could understand what Mr. Cox, Reutor's correspondent who
committed suicide during examination by the gendarmerie, had
faced and the frame of mind which he had reachod.
On August 2 all vernacular newspapers published what
was apparently an inspired story attacking the British
Embassy as being the source of erroneous reports sent to the
United States by the Associated Press and expressing sympathy
for the fact that Mr. Morin had been hoodwinked" by his
sources of information. The press went on to interpret this
alleged disclosure of the British Embassy as the source of
misinformation as evidence that the British Embassy itself
may be the heart of British espionage against Japan". Almost
all newspapers including the ASAHI, NICHI NICHI and HOCHI
printed a practically identical warning that the authorities
would take resolute action" against any foreign correspondent,
irrespective of nationality should he be guilty of making
false reports or sending "malicious propaganda" against Japan.
This warning was interpreted by an American correspondent as
indioating that foreign correspondents who sent reports on
the basis of information from sources other than Japanese
offioial would be subject to the accusation that they were
gui1ty

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
guilty of distorting facts and puolishing "malicious propa-
ganda". If rigorously enforoed this might meon thet foreigh
correspondents vould be unable to operste in Jrpan ithout
grave personal acn~er.
(a) American representations concerning French
Inão-China.
As instructed by the Departnent, the Aibsssedor, on
August 6, called on the ilinister for Foreign 'ffairs and
brought to the latter's attention the reports hich vere
circulating thct Japen had "made secret demen's of Frence
in regard to French Indo-China. The Ambossauor referred to
Secretary of tate's statements of April 17 nd iey 11 in
hich were set forth the belief of the Governnent of the
United States thet intervention in comestic affairs of the
Netherlonds Tndies by other than peaceful processes would
be prejucicial to the cause of stability, peace end security
not only in thct re ion but in the entire 'scific area ond
emphasized that thet belief anc observetion naturelly apply
also to French Indo-Chinc since the ststements contcined
the American Covernment's observation that its belief wss
based upon @ coctrine having universel applicction cnd for
vhich the United Stetes une uivocs ly stands. The 'mbassedor
conveyed to the Minister for Foreign Affcirs, as under in-
structions, the concern of the Government of the United Stetes
with regard to the cevelopments revorted. The Minister re-
plied that (1) he cesired to reserve corment; (2) thet certain
demands
*Jerertment's telecrem No. 293, Aurust 6, 1 p.m. mbassy's
telegrem Nos. 672, jugust 7, 10 p.m.; 673, ufust 8, 2 n.m.;
697, August 13. Jespatch No. 4935, ugust 22, 1940.

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
Western Hemisphere to the United States.. The press was in
most cases not radical : r inflammatory in its reaction
but was unanimously firm in the conviction that close rela-
tions between the United States and Great Britain might
seriously affect Japan. It was reported that the United
States and Great Britain were planning to change the statug
quo of certain Pacific areas through the leasing or transfer
of actual or possible naval bases to the United States and
alleged that there existed a secret treaty between Great
Britain and the United States for the use of Singapore by
the latter country. All newspapers concluded that Japan
must give the most serious attention to all possible eventuali-
ties which might follow the American-British negotiations.
Throughout the month of August there continued to appear
from time to time in the vernacular press articles emphasizing
the seriousness to Japan of continued development of possible
military cooperation between the United States and England.
(f) More Important Representations by the Embassy.*
During the month of August the Embassy formally pro-
tested to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs bombings of certain
properties in China. Representations were also made con-
cerning the proposed establishment of a regular steamship
service to Sharp Peak, China, for the benefit of the foreign
community there. A strong protest was made to the Foroign
Office during August concerning the interference of Japanese
military authorities in Canton with the Southern Baptist
Mission
*Imbassy's tolegrem Nos. 702, August 16, 11 a.m.; 738, August
24, 10 a.m.; Dupartment's telegram No. 315, August 19, 6 p.m.

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Mission Hospital et thet place.
II. RELATIONS WITH OTHER COUNTRIES,
(a) Great Britain.
1. Arrest of British subjects in Tapen ani Jananese
subjects in British Empire.
On August 3 all the vernacular newspapers in Tokyo
issued extra editions reporting the arrest of prominent
Japanese in London. This action was considered by the press
to be entirely retaliatory for the arrest of British subjects
in Japan. This original announcement was followed by more
elaborate comment in the press curing the following few days.
The Japanese arrested were said to be prominent businessmen
above any possible suspicion of espionage. Some journals
went so far as to characterize the Biitish acticn as barberous
and illegal. Fear was expressed conccrning the possibility
of a grave crisis in Anglo-Japanese rolations shouid the
question be not promptly settled, and some newspapors even
suggested the nocossity of taking positive measures against
Great Britain. In spite of these instances of somewhat violent
language the goneral undortone of the press was, in fact,
weak. On August 5 the Embassy was informed that three pro-
minent British citizens who had been arrestod in Kobe were
allowed to roturn home. Owing to the fact that some of the
British nationals arrested in Japan might have been in a
position to inform the British authorities concerning actual
transshipments
*Brbassy's telegrams Nos. 644, August 1, 9 p.m.; 645, August
1, 10 p.m.; 646, August 1, 11 p.m.; 655, August 3, noon;
B€5, August 5, 6 p.m.; 666, August 5, 7 p.m.; 670, August
7. 6 p.m.; 691, August 12, 7 p.m.; 728, August 21, 11 p.m.;
706, August 16, 7 p.m.; despatch No. 4950, September 5, 1940.

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
transshipments of essential materiels, such es tin end rubber,
from Japan to Germany via Siberia, some observers were of
the opinion that these arrests were in some measure at least
the result of German instigation. On August 12 there was
held a "down with Britain" mass meeting sponsored by the
Tokyo anti-British Citizens League composed largely of
members of the Tokyo Municipal Assembly. The press reported
that representatives came from six major cities and more than
30 smaller cities and that the meeting was attended by
thousands of individuals.
Various declarations and resolutions were adopted de-
manding the withdrawal of Great Britein from the Fer East,
encouraging the Prime Minister, the Ministers of Wer, Nevy
and Foreign Affairs to take strong action and urging the
strengthening of the Japan-Gormany-Italy axis. The meeting
was held in the public hall at Hibiya Park and the general
erea in the neighborhood was carefully policed by hundreds
of uniformed policemen before the opening of the meeting
which was on the whole orderly and undemonstrative. Thore
was no march on the British Embassy. This mecting in Tokyo
marked the climax of a series of anti-British mcetings which
had been held throughout the Jepenese Empire following the
arrest of Jepenese nationcls by British euthorities and
was openly pro-axis with the public hall and the entrances
to the Perk decorated with the three flags of Japan, Germany
and Italy.
Following this demonstration howevor, open expression
of anti-British sentiment noticeably subsidod throughout the
country and there were no further public demonstrations
during tho month of August.
on

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
On August 16 the Bureau of Criminal Affairs in the
Ministry of Justice issued a verbal statement concerning
the death of the former Reuter news correspondent at Tokyo,
Mr. Cox. This statement asserted that it had been establi-
shed that Mr. Cox committed suicide, that he had left a will
written the morning of his death, that qualified medical
examination revealed no evidence of any mistreatment and,
finally, that among Mr. Cox's papers there had been found
much material supporting the charges of espionage.
The Imbassy was informed toward the end of August that
the Minister for Foreign Affairs had given assurances that
he would endeavor in an approach to the Minister of War to
expedito investigations of all British subjects remaining
under detention. There were, however, no further dovelop-
ments of interest during the month of August.
(2) Withdrawal of British military garrisons at
Shanghai, Peiping and Tiontsin.*
On August 10 the British Embassy delivered to the
Foreign Offico a notification that British troops which had
been meinteined in China at Shanghai, Peiping and Tientsin
would be withdrawn. The British Government resorved all its
treaty rights under the Poiping Protocol of September 7, 190l.
The reaction in the vernacular press following the announce-
ment of the British Government's intontion to withdrew its
forces in China was distinctly unfavorable to Great Britain.
It was characterizcd as a futile gesture in an attempt to
improve Anglo-Japanese rolations end simultaneously to
strongthen
*Imbassy's telegrams 679, August 10, 11 a.m.; 684, August
11; 712, August 19, 4 p.m.

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.99)
-19
strengthen British colonial garrisons. The press stated
that Great Britain coul1 not expect to improve its rela-
tions with Japan until and unless that country fully re-
cognized the new order in East Asia and cocperated posi-
tively with Japan. The press was also very suspicious con-
cerning the United States and stated that some prio: under-
standing between the United States and Great Britain had
probably been reached.
On August 19 the vernacular press stated that as it
had previously predicted and subsequent events had establi-
shed, the British withdrawal of troops from China was only
an expedient measure designed to ameliorate anti-British
sentiment in Japan and to ease the strain of Anglo-Jepanese
relations. Subsequent events, it was reported, had verified
the accuracy of previously expressed suspicion that a secret
understanding had been reached between the United States and
Great Britain. The vernacular press went on to assert that
the responsibility for the preservation of peace and order
at Shanghai lay with the Japanese forces there end that there
was no legal foundation of the stationing of foreign troops
at Shanghai. It was said that the Japaneso forces intended
to take o ver the general defense of the Internetionel Settle-
ment only until such time as the "National Government" at
Nanking was able to perform those functions.
During the month of August the British Embassy made
representations to the Jepanese Government concerning re-
ported demands by Japan against French Indo-Chine
and

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.98)
1
-20-
and concerning the trade control regulations in North China
which were put into effect during August.
(b) The Netherlands East Indies.*
On August 3 it was reported in the press that General
Koiso, former Minister of Overseas Affairs in the first
Konoye Cabinet (1937-1938) had been offered the position
of official delegate from the J apanese Government to the
Netherlands East Indies and that he would be given broad
powers and the highest rank. The purpose of General Koiso's
mission was said to be to establish the closest political
and economic relations between the two areas on the basis
of mutual interest and position within the sphere of greater
East Asia. At the same time certain newspapers reported
that while en route to Tokyo General Koiso had stated, inter
alia, Japan China and Manchukuo" alone were insufficient for
the construction of an economic zone in Greater East Asia;
that it was necessary to include the South Seas area; that
from a moral viewpoint the freeing of the Oriental races was
necessary and was destined or realization; that the Nether-
lands Indies had long been exploited as a colony and had been
subjected to "administrative pressure". General Koiso en-
visaged the possibility of friction with the United States
in the execution of this program and said that Japan's re-
solute determination was required.
On August 5 the vernacular press gave considerable
prominence
*Imbassy's telegrams 657, August 3; 664, August 5; 687, August
12, 3 p.m.; 690, August 12, 6 p.m.; 693, August 12; 696,
August 13, 6 p.m.; 698, August 14; 713, August 19; 745,
August 24, 7 p.m.; 750, August 26, 5 p.m.; 761, August 28,
9p.m.: 762, August 29, 5 p.m.; Despatches Nos. 4915, August
14, 1940; and 4975, September 14, 1940.

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
prominence to remarks attributed to General Koiso. He
was reported to have said that prior to economic coopera-
tion between the Netherlands East Indies and Japan it would
be necessary to clarify the political aspects of the question
which would involve third Powers, particularly Germany,
England and the United States. As a prerequisite to this
clarification, General Koiso was said to be of the opinion
that it would be necessary for Japan definitely to decide
its attitude toward those countries. He asserted that Japan
was morally justified in extending aid to areas which have
lost their "overlords". It was pointed out that France and
the Netherlands had capitulated to Germany. General Koiso
went on to say that the areas to the south of Japan could
replace European and American sources of materials.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the Nether-
lands Government believed, and had so informed the Foreign
Office, that the remarks attributed to General Koiso by the
press, unless retracted, would make his position, should he
be sent to the Netherlands East Indies, "very difficult",
by which it was implied that it would bo "impossiblo". The
Embassy wes also confidentially informed that unless a re-
traction of these remarks was published that Government would
not accept General Koiso as & Japeneso delogate. Further
progress in the selection of a delegate to the Netherlands
East Indies was for some time unnoticeablo, but on August 14
tho press reported that General Koiso would not consider ac-
cepting the position unless he were given the broadest powers
and unless negotiations were not restricted to trade in
economio

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
economic matters.
The appointment of the Minister of Commeree and Industry,
Mr. Kobayashi, as the chief of a special mission to the Nether-
lands Bast Indies was announced on August 24. It was also
reported that Mr. Kobayashi would retain his cabinet port-
folio and that the mission would leave at the earliest pos-
sible date. Two days later the spakesman of the Foreign
Office was reported to have said that there had been no change
in the attitude of the Japaneso Government from that expressed
in a statement issued by tho Yonai Cabinet concerning the
status guo of the Netherlends East Indies and added that the
appointment of Mr. Kobayashi was merely to expedite the ne-
gotiations alroady undortaken. Among the members of the
mission as finally announccd by the Japanese Government were
so-called technical experts from the Foreign Office, Cabinet
Planning Board, Finance Ministry, War Ministry, Navy Ministry,
Commerce and Industry Ministry and the Ovorseas Ministry.
The Embassy was confidentially informed that the accept-
ance of this mission by the Netherlands Government was not
asked, and that the Netherlands Government had merely been
informed that the mission was being sont.
(c) Russia*
Press comment in Japen upon a speech by Commissar for
Foreign Affairs, Mr. Molotov, given on August 1, was reserved
but in general friendly in reaction. The vernaoular press
insisted that as a prime requisite for improvoment in Russian-
Japanese relations it would be necessary for Russia to give
serious consideration to the cessation of assistance to the
Chiang Kai-shek Government. Adjustment of Russo-Japanese
relations
*mmbcssy's telegroms Nos. 662, August 3; 740, August 24, 1 p.m.;
746, August 25, 3 p.m.; 748, August 26, 2 p.m.; 751, August 26,
6 p.m.; Despctohes Nos. 4968, September 12;cnd 4967, September
11.1940.

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
relations was also said to be in some measure dependent upon
the attitude of Russia toward other world Powers. The
prospects for the adjustment of those relations were said
to be more cheerful but that certain aspects of Soviet Russia's
demands were still unacceptable to Japan.
The Embassy was informed by a strictly confidential
source on August 25 that the Minister for Foreign Affairs
had said that h had long been an advoeate of rapprochement
between Japan and Soviet Russia and that he still favored
a non -aggressio n pact between that country end Japan. He
was, however, pessimistic concerning the long term of Russo-
Japanese relations. The Minister expressed the opinion that
such difficulties as those over the oil concessions in..
Saghalien would not be settled permanently and that an
eventual conflict between the two countries was inevitable.
He asserted, however, that if Russia and Tapan were able to
compose their differences the Japanese position in the Far
East would become much easier. The Embassy learned at the
same time that the Minister was dissatisfied with Ambassador
Togo's mission at Moscow and that he intended to replace him
with General Tatekawa.
It was reported in the press on August 26 that following
six meetings of the international commission beginning on
August 3 agreement had been reached between Outer Mongolia
and Manchukuo" regarding the border demarcation. The report
added that the commission members were then engaged in
physically marking the border.
(d) French Indo-China.*
On August 7 the ASAHI and other important vernacular
newspepers
*Imbassy's telegrams Nos. 669, August 7, 5 p.m.; 676, August
9, 1 p.m.; 680, August 10, 4 p.m.; 685, August 11; 771,
August 31, 8 p.m.

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.97)
-24-
newspapers devoted considerable attention to a Domei despatch
from Canton said to be a quotation from tho report of a
genoral staff momber of the Japanose Army in South Ciina
following an inspection of tho actual conditions in French
Indo-China. This roport statod inter alia that the friend-
ship of the Fronch Indo-Chineso Govornmont for Jcpen was only
superficial and tomporary, thct Jepen would not be deccivod
by tho cttitudo of that Govornmont, cnd that should the Govorn-
ment of Fronch Indo-Chin tcke any ction based upon : miscel-
cul tion of its own strength "future h rm would rosult."
On August 9 tho Amb: ss dor w-s informed in strict con-
fidonco by an cuthontic sourco th-t r Jrp noso Army Strff
officor who hrd boen holding convcrsctions with the Govornor
Gonorl of Fronch Indo-China hod madc cortrin milit:ry domands
to tho Govcrnor clong thc linos roported in the pross carly in
August -- right of trcnsit of troops, occupction of cirdromos,
otc.
Ecrly in August the somo dcm nds wore conveyed to tho
Fronch Ambossador in Tokyo by thc Ministor for Forcign Affcirs.
The Minister for Forcign Aff irs t the samo time cmphasizod
that Jcpon is prrticul:rly intorostod in Indo-Chino from an
oconomic point of view. Thoso quostions wore roforrod to
tho Fronch Governmont ct Vichy cnd simultnoously convorsctions
continuod in Fronch Indo-Chinr. On August 10 it was roported
in the verncculcr pross thrt Gonoral Nishihera who hrd re-
turned to Tokyo following convorsctions with tho Govornor
Gonorcl of Fronch Indo-Chinn hnd agrin orrivod at H-noi and
that

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
that it was expected that negotiations would make rapid pro-
gress. The article alleged that the United States was en-
gaged in obvious attempts to disrupt negotiations between
Japan and French Indo-China. On August 11 the NICHI NICHI
gave considerable prominence to a special despatch from
Berlin reporting that the German Government was paying care-
ful attention to the question of French Indo-China and its
relations with Japan. It was asserted that Germany would
unhesitatingly decline to take an attitude of opposition to
Japan and that Japan and Germany on the occasion of the
opening of the large-scale attack against England would
swiftly conclude an agreement concerning the new orders of
each country and would endeavor to accomplish a "lightning
diplometic victory". No settlement of this question and no
conclusion to negotintions in French Indo-China were announced
during the month of August.
(e) Latin America.*
There appeared in the press about the miadle of August
en announcement that, on the basis of recommendations drafted
at the conference of leading Japanese diplomats to South
America and Central Americe held in Rio de Janeiro in May
and that owing to the conclusion of foreign trade experts
that expension of economic activities including industrial
investments and financial cccommodctions in South and Contral
Americc wes urgently necesscry, the Ministry of: Foreign
Affairs had given careful study to the question of estcblish-
ing e permonent organization designed to expand trcde with
those aroas. The orgonization would, in cddition to of-
ficials from the Ministry of Foroign Affairs, include repre-
sentetives
*mb. Tologrem No .704, Aug 16, 6 p.m.; despatch No. 4870,
July 24, 1940.

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
sentatives from other important Government ministries. The
Vice Minister for Foreigi Affejrs would, it was seid, act as
Chairman.
(f) China.
1. Military Operations in China.
Japanese military operations in China during the month
of August, with the exception of aerial cperetions, were on
the whole limited to what were cheracterized as "mopping up"
expeditions. More important fighting took place in Central
Hopei and Eastern Shansi in which areas well coordinated and
quite effective raids on railways were conducted by the Chinese
Eighth Route Army. According to Japanese announcements "mopping
up" operations against those units of the Eighth Route Army
countinued throughout the month of August.
In northeastern Anhwei Province the Japanese Army also
carried out operations against Chinese guerilla forces opera-
ting in that general district.
Naval landing parties during the month of August carried
out a series of minor raids along the South China Coast.
These Japanese marine forces did not attempt to occupy any
territory but merely landed and in raids destroyed some supplies
and then withdrew.
Both the Japanese Army and Navy air arms continued their
long: distanco raids on Chungking and other points in Szechuan
Province. In eddition to these long-range aorial bombing
oporations, the Army air forccs bombed the communicstions
lines in Kwangsi Province.
The
*Prepared with tho assistance of the office of tho Military
Attaché.

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
Tho naval aerial forces directod bombing raids against
the Chekiang-Kiangsi Railway.
III. INTERNAL POLITICAL CONDITIONS.
(a) Government announcements concerning High
Policy.*
The press had for somo time anticipεtod an announce-
mont in which tho Japenese Government would clarify high
policy, and on August lst the Cabinet did issue such a
stctement. The stetement in summary wos to the effoct
thnt it was urgently nocesscry for Japan ot tho "historic
turning point in world aff irs" to effect with grect spoed
"fundamental renovations" in all lines of governmont and to
strive for the porfoction of a steto structure for national
dofenso of the highest order. The first stop in Japan's
policy looking to the ostablishmont of stable world peaco was
to be to create "a now order in Greater East Asia on the
foundation of solidarity botwoon and among Japan, Manchukuo
and China." With rogard to fo reign policy, the Government's
statement may be quoted as follows: "Japan's foreign policy
which aims ultimately at the construction of a new order
in Greater East Asia will be directed, first of all, to
a complete settlement of the China Affair and the advance-
ment of the national fortune by taking a far-sighted view
of the drastic changes in the international situation and
formulating both constructive and flexible measures." With
regard to internal administration, the Government's state-
ment said that the realization of the following points was
expected:
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 640, August 1, 5 p.m.; 642, August
1, 7 p.m.; 654, August 2; 683, August 11, noon.

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.97)
-28-
expected:
"(a) renovation of educetion;
(b) establishment of a powerful new political struc-
cture and a qualified control of Government affairs
(this to includo renovation of the Diet and
reformation of bureaucratic and administrative
organs);
3
(c) building of a national defonse economy;
(a) renovation of the living mode of the nation and
the maintenance of a standard of living as will
enable tho nation to lead a plain, solid and
vigorous life and to surmount the national crisis
byporsevering truly through years of hardship."
Tho Minister for Foreign Affsirs issued a statoment on
August 1 in which ho urgod national unity with a view to
offecting Jepan's foreign policy which, ho said, "at prosent
is to establish & greet East Asien chain of common pros-
perity with the Jepan, "Menchukuo" and Chine group as ono
of the links". Tho Minister also said thet the Jcpanese
Government should strive with courage &nd determinction to
cchiove its goal "in concert with those friondly Powers
which cre prepcred to cooperate with us".
The vernacular press in cormenting on the stetements
issued on August 1 was in general .critical and in some
instances cnt gonistic. A further clarificction of the
Government's views cnd cn expression of concreto measures
which wero to be taken was desired. The YOMIURI interpreted
tho statoments as indicating that thore would be c drastic
change in diplomatic policy end that thenceforth Japen
expocted to adopt a "strong policy" toward all Powers op-
posing this country.
On August 10 the Minister for Foreign Aff:irs discussed
Jepanese

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.98)
-29-
Jepanese foreign policy in gonorally cbstract torms during
a press interview. He was reported to have described the
complicated international situation as "rich in unforeseen
opportunities" and to have said that it was necessary to
achieve the new internal organization and to realize the
establishment of a "sphere of mutual prosperity in Greater
East Asia." As a part of Japan's positive diplomacy the
Minister reportedly stated that Japan would cooperate
actively with friendly nations of a similar mind. Japan's
relations towards the great powers were being carefully
observed and analyzed but the time was said to be then not
opportune to reveal publicly the results of those obeerva-
tions and analyses.
(b) Changes in Foreign Office and Foreign
Service Personnel.*
4.
Early in August, the appointment of Mr. Chuichi Ohashi,
formerly Counselor to tho Government of "Manchukuo" as Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs was announccd. On August 23
thero appeared in the pross announcements of tho recall of
the great majority of Japanese Ambassadors, Ministers, and
many other high-ranking Japanose Foroign Service officials.
The subject was sensationally treated by the press and was
reported as "an unprecedented and drastic shakeup in Foreign
Service personnel". There was, however, no cutright criticism
of the step taken and there were only a few veiled and in-
definite queries as to the advisability of the measure.
It
*Embassy's telegrams Nos. 651, August 2, 6 p.m.; 736, August
23, 4 p.m.; 737, August 23, 7 p.m.; 758, Lugust 28, 6 p.m.;
767, August 30, 7 pom.; 056, August 3; 769, iugust 31; 770,
August 3, 7 p.m.

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
It was characterized as the first step toward a "renovation
in Japan's diplomatic policy". New "young end vigorous" re-
presertetives of Japan were expectei to be appointed not
only from the career service tut ale from outside circles.
At the same time reports were heard that many officials
in the Foreign Office would be transferred or would resign.
All newspapers generally agrced that these crestic changes
were decided upon by the Foreign Minister and his Vice
Ministor, Mr. Ohashi, with the assistanco of a few intimate
advisors and that final docision was taken in carefully
guarded secrecy. Mr. Ohashi was quoted by the press as
laughingly announcing that he himself was directly respon-
sible for the recall orders. The Foreign Office spokesman
was said to have told foreign correspondents that the new
Japanese Ambassador to the United States would be appointed
soon and that the changes were "merely routine". The ap-
pointments of Mr. Toshio Shiratori, formor Imbassedor to
Itely, and well-known cdvocete of close relations with the
Axis Powors, and Ryooi Seito, former Director of tho Com-
mercial Bureau of the Foreign Office, a director of the
South Manchuria Railway Company in 1927, and adviser to the
Commanding Headquarters of the Kwangtung rmy in 1929, as
diplomatic advisers to the Foreign Office were published in
the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on August 28.
On August 30 further sweeping appointments and transfers
were announced, including the appointment of Mr. Matsumiya
as Ambassador-at-large to the South Seas and Inaia. The
press expected that these reforms would successfully
"eliminate

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
"eliminate traditional diplomats" brought up under the old
school of diplomacy of Japan's economic dependence on Great
Britain and the United States. It was further expected that
young officials in the Foreign Office and Foreign Service
would be given training in nationalistic principles.
At the end of Lugust there were current in Tokyo many
rumors concerning the new Japanese Ambassador to be appoint-
ed to the United States. It was said that the position
had been offered to one or more individuals but that no one
had accopted.
(c) New National Structure.*
On August 28 Prince Konoye issued a statement prior to
the opening of the first session of the Preparatory Com-
mittoe on the establishment of the new structure. This
statement in surmary was as follows:
"If Japan is to bring the China Affair to a
successful conclusion and to tako an active part
in the establishment of a new world order Japen
must perfect a national defense structure of the
highest degree. The basis of such a structure is
ε powerful internal structure. This is indeed a
netionel demand. It is not a domend of a tomporcry
charccter but of a permanent one. Whether or not
Jepan can ostablish such n strong national structure
will decide the very riso or fall of the netiona.
Among the items to be considerod (are) harmonious
cooperation between the High Command and the administra-
tive branch of the Government, the consolidation of
State mechanisms and the heightening of efficiency and
the establishment of a new Parliamentary structure as
an organ for assisting the Throne. The aim of the
new national structure is to unite the total energies
of the state. The organization of the nation must
therefore extend to the economic and cultural spheres.
There must be a solid nation-wide structure in which
all component parts are organized vertically, and
they are also bound together horizontally. A definite
national movement is necessary for the successful
realization of this national structure. Such a
movement
*3mbassy's telograms Nos. 759, August 28. 7 p.m.; 780,
August 28, 8 p.m. Despatch No. 4946, Soptombor 5, 1940.

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
movement should spontaneously spring from the people
themselves. If it is planned or guided by the Govern-
ment, or it is gi en an edministrative structure, it
may hinder the spontaneous manifestation of the people's
energies. The present circumstances, however, do not
allow us to rely only cn the spontaneous develop-
ment of such a movemont. Mercover, agitations from
bolow, are liable to dcgenorete into factionel strifes
and fail to expand into a reslly national movemont. The
Govornment have thus found it nocossary to take posi-
tive steps for fostering and directing this movemont.
This movement is a common undertaking of both the
Government and the people: it is a nation-wide move-
mont to assist the Throne, The new national structure
movement aims at superseding the old party politics
postulated upon liberalism. When such a movement
is led by the Government itself it cannot in any
sense be a party movement. Noither can it be allowed
to tako tho form of a single party system. No matter
what brilliant results such a system may have reaped
in other lands, it is not acceptable in Japen because
it is contrary to the basic principle of our national
polity of 'One Sovereign over all'. In Japan it
is the privilege of all His Imperial Majesty's
subjects to assist the Throne and that privilege
cannot be monopolized by the power of either a single
individual or a single party. If there should arise
a difference of opinion c ncerning the assistance
to be offered, the final decision would rest with the
Throne. And once an Imperial decision has been
given, all subjects of the Throne should unite in
obeying His Majesty's word, That is the true essence
of Japanese polity."
Although the sessions of the Preparatory Committee
began there were no significant developments nor was there
any clarification of the "new national structure" during
the month under review.
(a) Organization of the Cabinet Intelligence
Bureau.*
In line with the general tendency in Japan toward a
centralization of control and administration, the proposal
was made in the latter part of August to organize a Cabinet
Intelligence Bureau which would take over, it was report-
ed, the activities of the Army and Navy Intelligence
Bureaus
*Embassy's telegram No. 723, August 21, 7 p.m.
