894.841 Taxes On Navigation., Japan, Tonnage Dues., November 7, 1935 - December 15, 1937 (File 988)
ID: 894.841-988   Pages: 27   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.841-taxes-on-navigation-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE

see 611.00231/7 FOR Note

FROM Japanese Embassy ( ) DATED Nov.7,1935.
TO NAME 1-1127

REGARDING: Ports of entry.

Asks 1- whether there is practice in America
of giving ships special permission to enter an
unopen port as provided in Article 98 of the
Japanese Customs Law, 2- If so, the rate of charges
or fees of any kind imposed, and 3 - rate of tonnage duty
levied in an open port.

FU

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.92)
296
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1937 NOV 29 PM 2
Kobe, Japan, November 9, 1937
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
Department of State
November 28 1937
SUBJECT: Transportation of Commercial Cargo by United States Navy Vessels.
1-1055 GPO
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
2d. to 2dgts
1/ 20
DEC 16 1937
SIR:
As of possible use to the Department should the matter ever arise, I have the honor to enclose a copy of a letter prepared by this Consulate at the request of Consul General Cameron setting forth the situation with respect to the transportation of commercial cargo from Japan to Guam by the U.S.S. Gold Star.
As the Department will observe, the Japanese Government has more or less tolerated this practice without the imposition of ordinary commercial tonnage dues. It is this Consulate's understanding, however, that the Japanese Government does not admit in principle that Navy steamers should be allowed to do this without divesting themselves of their official character. Under these conditions, and particularly in view of the present war situation, it is believed the matter should be regularized with the Japanese
Government
F/B

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-

Government should further commercial shipments to Guam by Government vessels be contemplated.

Respectfully yours,

Winthrop R. Scott
American Consul

Enclosure:
Copy of letter to
Consul General Cameron,
Tokyo, November 4, 1937.

830

WRS/hjs

In duplicate to Department.
Copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 196 from Consul Winthrop R. Scott, Kobe, Japan, headed "Transportation of Commercial Cargo by United States Navy Vessels".

Kobe, Japan
November 4, 1937

Confidential

C. R. Cameron, Esquire,
American Consul General,
Tokyo.

Sir:

Reference is made to your letter of September 20, 1937 with its enclosure, a communication addressed to the Embassy by the Flores Trading Company, raising the question of the status of tonnage dues and custom permits for the U.S.S. GOLD STAR. In reply to your inquiry the following is supplied:

The question first arose on August 17, 1933 when the Commander of the GOLD STAR was requested to certify to a custom declaration of the type required for merchant vessels. This the Commander refused to do. Shortly thereafter a minor official of the Kobe Custom House left an unsigned memorandum with the Commander of the GOLD STAR, stating that henceforth tonnage dues would be assessed on cargo, other than articles required for the ship's own use, loaded or discharged at the port of Kobe. In a letter transmitting this memorandum and requesting the aid of the Kobe Consulate from the Commander of the GOLD STAR it was apparent that the GOLD STAR had been loading and discharging considerable quantities of privately owned cargo, the latter coming from, or destined to, merchants on the Island of Guam. On this occasion, while not admitting its right in principle, the GOLD STAR was allowed to proceed without the payment of tonnage dues and without making any declarations in regard to the character of its cargo.

Several

=== Page 5 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

Several verbal as well as written representations were made to the local Custom House by Consul Donovan after the departure of the vessel all of which denied the right of the Japanese authorities to impose tonnage dues on the GOLD STAR on the basis that it was a public vessel of the United States. Replying to these representations under date of November 29, 1933, the Director of the Kobe Custom House stated in part that while the custom authorities did not intend to treat the GOLD STAR as the object of tonnage dues, they could not but hope that the vessel would "discontinue" the practice of carrying substantial amounts of cargo other than that for the use of the ship. Referring to this question, the Consul General at Tokyo stated in his letter of September 28, 1933 that he had learned the matter had been taken up with the Commander of the Asiatic Fleet and that the Commander of the GOLD STAR had been instructed to abide by naval regulations which prohibit naval vessels of the United States from transporting cargo. This Consulate has never been able to find out, however, the basis for the Consul General's statement on this point and recently Commander Reinburg, Jr., of the GOLD STAR in referring to this matter stated that he felt sure Mr. Garrels must have been mistaken on this point.

However this may be, the GOLD STAR on its semi-annual visits to Japan continued to load and discharge privately-owned cargo at Kobe and Yokohama without molestation from the Custom authorities, no tonnage dues being exacted or declaration being required. From time to time petty merchants intimated to the Kobe Consulate that certain shippers could get their merchandise aboard the GOLD STAR but that they themselves could not. The GOLD STAR itself did not appeal to the Kobe Consulate in these cases.

When the GOLD STAR visited Kobe on September 14, 1937, Commander McGinnis, the Executive Officer, requested the assistance of the Kobe Consulate to obtain the release of a cargo of cement for the GOLD STAR, the loading of which, it was alleged, had been held up by the Kobe Custom House on the grounds that the material came within the provisions of the Emergency Act to Control Exports and Imports of

September

=== Page 6 === (confidence 1.00)
- 3 -

September 9, 1937. The cement had been purchased from the Eastern Trading Company of Yokohama, partly for the use of the Navy on Guam and partly to the order of private merchants on the Island, according to Commander McGinnis. It appears that cement had been obtained at Yokohama from this Company before. As assurances were received from the Foreign Office through the Embassy that the cargo of cement did not come within the provisions of the said Act, this information was conveyed verbally the following morning to the local custom authorities who advised the Consulate that the cargo had already been released for loading, obviously on instructions from the Finance Ministry in Tokyo. It seems probable that the reason given was an assumed one. It is possible that the Eastern Trading Company, primarily a Yokohama company and not accustomed to dealing with the Kobe authorities, neglected the usual channels, and the offended junior official not wishing to reopen the entire question of tonnage dues and custom permits based his objections on the Emergency Control Act. In any event the GOLD STAR sailed with its cargo of cement. Commander J. F. Reinburg, Jr., the Captain of the vessel, stated that it was not altogether clear just what he could do, that he could find no prohibition against carrying commercial cargo, and therefore would continue doing so.

The status of the U.S.S. GOLD STAR as it now stands is highly unsatisfactory. From statements made by Commander Reinburg and the previous Captain of the GOLD STAR it appears that the Island of Guam is rather dependent upon obtaining commercial and other supplies from Japan. Apparently there are no satisfactory freight connections by American lines or by our transport service from the United States or from China. On the other hand, if the GOLD STAR is to continue to carry supplies it would seem that such a practice would divest it of the character of a Navy vessel and that the Japanese government might very properly charge ordinary commercial dues against the vessel. Possibly if it were explained to the Foreign Office that it is not feasible to obtain commercial supplies except in this manner definite permission for this practice could be obtained. It would seem, however, that our case is a very weak one and there would appear to be

no

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-

no reason why the ordinary dues should not be paid upon commercial cargo. If such a precedent is undesirable from the point of view of the Navy or for other reasons then I think the GOLD STAR should be instructed not to carry commercial cargo of any sort and our Government should make appropriate arrangements for supplying Guam with its needs in some other manner. In any event, the present situation, as said before, is highly unsatisfactory and is apt to lead to embarrassments or trouble if not corrected.

There is enclosed an extra copy of this letter for the Embassy should you desire to furnish it with one.

Respectfully yours,

inthrop P. Scott
American Consul

Enclosures:

1. Unsigned memorandum from an official of the Kobe Custom House to the Commander of the GOLD STAR.
2. Letter from the Commander of the GOLD STAR to the Kobe Consulate.
3. Letter from the Kobe Custom House to the American Consulate, Kobe, November 29, 1933.
4. Letter from the Consul General, Tokyo to the American Consulate, Kobe, September 28, 1933.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 1.00)
COPY

When a ship enters an open port in Japan for the purpose of loading or discharging merchandise (cargo) such ship shall be treated as a ship engaged in the Overseas trade and the customs shall impose, tonnage dues on such ships.

Warships are merely allowed to load and/or unload articles required for the ship's own use and are not permitted to load or unload any merchandise. If your ship is desirous of discharging and loading merchandise at this port as is the present intention, please note that the Customs will be obliged to impose tonnage dues in accordance with the regulations governing merchants ships.

However, on this present occasion we shall consider the merchandise to be loaded as if intended for the ship's use and shall exempt the payment of the tonnage dues but please note that in future we shall be obliged to treat you, under similar circumstances, as a merchant ship and impose tonnage dues accordingly.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
U. S. S. GOLD STAR
AG12/L14-2
Kobe, Japan,
18 August, 1933.

The American Consul,
Kobe, Japan.

Sir:

Yesterday afternoon Mr. T. Inouye, Chief of General Affairs' Section, Inspectors' Department, Customs, Kobe, called on me in my absence and left an unsigned memorandum, copy of which is appended. You will note from this memorandum, which he stated was by direction of his Chief, that apparently it is the decision of the Japanese Government to charge the U. S. S. GOLD STAR tonnage dues should she bring or take cargo to or from Japanese ports.

In view of the above, it is requested that you get in touch with the Japanese authorities and find out whether this decision is or is not final, and further whether it is to apply solely to the port of Kobe or to all Japanese ports.

For your information, the U. S. S. GOLD STAR brings into Japan solely copra, with possibly rare exceptions of small amounts of other articles. This copra seldom amounts to more than 300 tons. The GOLD STAR takes from Japanese ports considerable freight, for Navy use, for the Island Government of Guam, and for consignment to the merchants of Guam. This freight consists principally of coal, cement, malt extract, rice, and general merchandise. The tonnage taken out each trip varies greatly, depending on whether or not coal is taken. The average, outside of coal, is about six hundred (600) tons. In addition to this, the GOLD STAR generally has a pay-day prior to entering a Japanese port, and the officers and crew probably expend in a Japanese port the amount, at least, of this pay day, which will average about four thousand ($4,000.00) dollars. Furthermore, the GOLD STAR carries on the average of about fifty (50) passengers who are making health trips and have come from Guam on a vacation with money that they have saved in order to enjoy their stay in Japan. While it is impossible to estimate the amount of this money, it must be considerable.

From the above it is clear that the balance of trade for the GOLD STAR is strongly in favor of the Japanese, and should it become necessary for the GOLD STAR to discontinue coming to Japanese ports the monetary loss to the Japanese would be considerable.

There

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

There is no authority in the United States law for a warship to pay tonnage dues, nor is it known to the writer that tonnage dues have ever before been imposed upon a man o' war.

While I am not in a position to make positive statements for the Governor of Guam, I feel sure that should the Japanese continue this attitude and insist on the imposing of tonnage dues, the Governor will in the future discontinue the routing of the GOLD STAR to Japanese ports, with its consequent loss of trade to the Japanese. In order that I may make a complete report to the Governor of Guam on my return, it is requested that you get a final decision on this matter at the earliest practicable moment, and that, should you be unable to furnish this information before our departure on 22 August, 1933, this information be transmitted by radio.

Respectfully,

(Signed) W. C. Faus
W. C. FAUS,
Commander, U. S. Navy,
Commanding.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
(TRANSLATION)

Despatch No. Kobe 2634

November 29, 1933.

Howard Donovan, Esquire,
American Consul,
Kobe.

Sir:

Referring to your communication of August 18, 1937, it goes without saying that the U.S.S. GOLD STAR, a man-of-war of your government, would not naturally be subject to tonnage or other dues on its visits to this port. Moreover, no effort has been spared in the past in the handling of this vessel. However, in case the said vessel loads or discharges general commercial articles, it is considered to be actually engaged in a form of foreign trade, thereby raising the problem of performance of various custom formalities in accordance with the custom laws of this country. While this custom house does not intend to treat the GOLD STAR as the object of tonnage dues, it cannot but hope that the said vessel will discontinue the practice of carrying substantial amounts of cargo other than that for the use of the ship.

With this point in mind it is respectfully requested that you convey the above in detail to the said vessel in order to avoid any misunderstanding.

Respectfully yours,
Tsutomu Kubotera,
Director, Kobe Customs.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
Refer to 353/350
COPY

AMERICAN CONSULAR SERVICE
American Consulate General
Tokyo, Japan,
September 28, 1933.

Howard Donovan, Esquire,
American Consul,
Kobe.

Sir:

Reference is made to correspondence between your office and the Embassy in regard to the question of tonnage dues on the U.S.S. GOLD STAR, and communication from the Consulate General to you on the same subject under date of August 28, 1933, receipt of which has so far not been acknowledged.

With special reference to the Embassy's letter to you of September 26, 1933, you may be interested to know that the Consulate General learns that the question was referred to the Commander of the Asiatic Fleet, and the commanding officer of the GOLD STAR instructed to abide by naval regulations which prohibit naval vessels of the United States from transporting cargo.

Respectfully yours,
(Signed) Arthur Garrels
Arthur Garrels,
American Consul General.

1

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
In reply refer to
JM 894.841/2

My dear Mr. Secretary:

The Department has received a despatch dated November 9, 1937, with enclosure, from the American Consul in Kobe, Japan, calling attention to the existence of an anomalous situation arising out of the transportation of commercial cargo from Japan to Guam by the U.S.S. Gold Star. A copy of the despatch in question, with enclosure, is transmitted herewith for your information.

From the evidence at hand it appears that although the Japanese Government has tolerated the loading and unloading in Japan of commercial cargo carried by the U.S.S. Gold Star without the collection of tonnage dues, it does not admit in principle that naval vessels engaged in such trade should be exempt from the payment of tonnage dues on commercial cargoes so carried. The Director of the Kobe Customs on November 29, 1933, informed the American Consul at Kobe that he hoped the Gold Star would discontinue the practice of carrying substantial amounts of cargo other

The Honorable
Claude A. Swanson,
Secretary of the Navy.

894.841/2
F/MR

=== Page 14 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

other than for use on the ship. Shortly before receiving this communication, however, the Consul in Kobe had received a letter from the Consul General in Tokyo stating "That the question was referred to the Commander of the Asiatic Fleet, and the commanding officer of the Gold Star instructed to abide by naval regulations which prohibit naval vessels of the United States from transporting cargo". Nevertheless, according to a report dated November 4, 1937, from the Consul at Kobe to the Consul General at Tokyo, the Gold Star has continued to transport commercial cargoes on its semi-annual visits to Japan and the present commander of the Gold Star is reported to have stated that he is not aware of any prohibition against the carrying of commercial cargo.

The Department would appreciate an expression of your views upon the various aspects of this problem as set forth in the letter of November 4 from the American Consul in Kobe to the American Consul General in Tokyo, which is transmitted as an enclosure to the despatch in question. You will note the conclusion of the American Consul that if the Gold Star continues to carry commercial cargo, the Japanese Government might very properly charge ordinary commercial dues to the vessel, and that if it is desired that such a precedent be avoided, instructions should be issued

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.88)
-3-

issued ordering the vessel to discontinue the carrying of cargo for private parties. The American Ambassador at Tokyo has informed the Department that he concurs in this opinion, which is also shared by the Consul General and the Naval Attache.

Sincerely yours,

Cordell Bull

Enclosure:

From American Consulate,
Kobe, Japan, November 9,
1937, with enclosure.

A true copy
the signed
R
CR
DEC 21 1937
DEC 27 1937

FA
JMB
FE
JMB
A-W
AW
JMB
JMB
JMB

FE:JMJ:MM
12/20/37

Reutline

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.89)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State Washington
Department of State
1937 DEC 16 PM 5 30
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
AMERBASSY, TOKYO, (JAPAN).
353
Kobe's despatch No. 196, November 9, and enclosure, copy of which was sent to Consulate General, regarding Gold Star.
The Department proposes to take up the matter with the Navy Department but before doing so desires to know whether Embassy has been consulted and whether it has any comments to offer.
Hull
URIC
894.841/2
894.841/2
118.1668
1937 DEC 16 PM 5 30
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEC 16 1937 PM
File
JMJ
FEB
PA/H A-W
Enciphered by
Sent by operator M., 19
D. C. R. - No. 29 1-1462 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.92)
JMJ
JWB

# TELEGRAM RECEIVED

EG 1-1836

GRAY
FROM
Tokyo
Dated December 17, 1937
Rec'd 11:12 a. m.

Secretary of State,
Washington.

651, December 17, 6 p.m.
Department's 353, December 16, 7 p. m.

It is our opinion that the GOLD STAR should pay commercial dues or discontinue carrying freight for private parties. Consul General and Naval Attache concur.

GREW

DDI.:HPD

794.241

Letter to Sec. Navy - drafted Dec 18, 1937
Division of
IAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
File
Department of State

894.341/3
F/A

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washington
PREPARING OFFICE WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Collect
Charge Department
OR
Charge to
S
TO THE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
PARTAIR
PLAIN
994.841/3A
F/WB
December 21, 1937.

AMEMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN).

The Department of Commerce requests verification of the following statement with regard to Japanese law which appears in a petition presented to the Bureau of Marine Inspection and Navigation.

QUOTE. The laws of Japan required all ships stopping at Yokohama to enter and clear the port regardless of whether they load or unload cargo. The Steamship Texas did not load or unload any cargo at Yokohama. It stopped there for the sole purpose of taking on fuel or bunker oil from a bonded tank owned by the steamship company. END QUOTE.

Please telegraph reply.

HEL
HRC

FE:LDS:NN
DEC 21 1937

Enciphered by _________________________
Sent by operator _____________________ M., ______________, 19 ______________
D. C. R.—No. 20 1—1462 U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-

made to conceal the departure of the airplanes: they always circle over the city once or twice in formation and at a low altitude, with all lights ablaze, before taking their northwesterly course. It would appear that the army air corps, jealous of the publicity accruing to the navy in Shanghai, is endeavoring to show the public that its airplanes, as well as those of the navy, are taking an active part in the fighting.

Recently an army plane, in attempting to land at the Taihoku air field, struck the house of a Formosan Chinese and crashed, killing the pilot and mechanic. As a consequence, more than 300 houses near the air base belonging to Formosan Chinese were removed by order of the military authorities.

Steamship schedules have been completely disrupted during the past month. At one time only two ships were plying between Taiwan and Japan, instead of the usual six on the regular run, the others having been commandeered by the Government for evacuating Japanese subjects from Chinese ports and transporting materials, supplies, and possibly troops to China.

No internal disturbances have been reported in Taiwan, although spy-fever is at its height. The public has been so intimidated by anti-spy propaganda emanating from the military that it is practically impossible for the Consulate to procure information

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-

information of the most innocent nature. Even my Japanese teacher, who is employed in a Government bureau, has had to discontinue giving me lessons, inasmuch as his chief inferred that too frequent visits to the American Consulate might cost him his job.

Respectfully yours,

Alvin T. Rowe, Jr.,
American Vice Consul.

File No. 820.02
ATR/tkh

Two copies to Department.
1 copy to Consulate General, Tokyo.

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED

MJD 1-1235
FROM GRAY
Tokyo
Dated December 23, 1937.
Rec'd. 10 a. m.

Secretary of State,
Washington.

670, December 23, 12 a. m.
Department's 365, December 21, 4 p. m., Japanese
shipping laws.

Under Japanese law tonnage dues and the usual for-
malities of entering and clearing are required of foreign
vessels coming into Japanese ports whether for cargo, re-
pairs or fueling. Exception from tonnage dues is limited
to ships coming into port by reason of disaster at sea or
other unavoidable circumstances. The principles underlying
the statement quoted in the Department's telegram are often
confirmed.

WWC RR GREW

894.841/4
F/WB

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
ADDRESS REPLY TO
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
AND REFER TO INITIALS
AND No.

NAVY DEPARTMENT
AG12/L21-4(371228) AT WASHINGTON
1938 JAN 5 AM 10 50

DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
file B
3 JAN 1938

Sir:

I beg to acknowledge your letter, file FE, dated December 28, 1937, regarding the transportation of commercial cargo from Japan to Guam by the USS COLD STAR.

A copy of your letter with enclosures is being forwarded to the Governor of Guam by Clipper Airmail, and as soon as the contents and recommendations of that official are received this department will make the expression of views upon the various aspects of the problem as requested by the Department of State.

Respectfully,

William H. Leahy

The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.

894.841/5
F/MR

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.91)
5 RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF STATE 1937 DEC 16 AM 9 27
November 26 1937
874.841
51
34.7.31
194 1123

DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON

December 15, 1937

The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D. C.

My dear Mr. Secretary:

In a petition recently submitted to the Bureau of Marine Inspection and Navigation of this Department, the following statement is made:

"The laws of Japan required all ships stopping at Yokohama to enter and clear the port regardless of whether they load or unload cargo. The Steamship TEXAS did not load or unload any cargo at Yokohama. It stopped there for the sole purpose of taking on fuel or bunker oil from a bonded tank owned by the steamship company."

In order for the Bureau to act intelligently on the petition before it, it is necessary that it be informed whether the above quoted statement with regard to the laws of Japan is correct.

It will be greatly appreciated if you can furnish the information with regard to the Japanese law in this connection at an early date.

Cordially yours,

J. M. Johnson
Assistant Secretary of Commerce

1937 DEC 16 AM 9 27
RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF MARINE INSTITUTE
1937 DEC 16 105
894.841/6 APR 1937
874.841

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
December 28 1937
In reply refer to
FE 694.11231/1

My dear Mr. Secretary:

With reference to your Department's letter of December 15, 1937, requesting verification of a statement with regard to Japanese law which appears in a petition presented to the Bureau of Inspection and Navigation in connection with the S.S. Texas, there is quoted below for your information a telegram which has been received from the American Embassy at Tokyo in reply to this Department's inquiry on the subject:

894.841/4 "670, December 23, 12 a. m.
"Department's 365, December 21, 4 p. m., Japanese shipping laws.

"Under Japanese law tonnage dues and the usual formalities of entering and clearing are required of foreign vessels coming into Japanese ports whether for cargo, repairs or fueling. Exception from tonnage dues is limited to ships coming into port by reason of disaster at sea or other

The Honorable
Daniel C. Roper,
Secretary of Commerce.

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-

other unavoidable circumstances. The principles underlying the statement quoted in the Department's telegram are often confirmed."

Sincerely yours,

For the Secretary of State:

Hugh R. Wilson
Assistant Secretary.

OR
DEC 28 1937. PM
RE:RLS:WMJ
A true copy of the signed original
12/28/37

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.97)
RECEIVED DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
AG12/L21-4(371028) OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
1938 FEB 5 AM 9 49
FEB 1 - 1938

Sir:

I beg to refer to your letter, file FE, dated December 28, 1937, and to my acknowledgment dated January 3, 1938, in connection with the subject of the transportation of commercial cargo between Guam and Japan in the U.S.S. GOLD STAR.

The question appears to be whether or not the vessel is subject to tonnage dues when commercial cargo is discharged or obtained in Japan. It is the opinion of this department that the matter could be settled in one of two ways.

The first is neither to receive nor discharge commercial cargo in Japan. That action would have no serious adverse effect on the interests of the residents of Guam at this time, as goods could be obtained from the United States or from other ports visited by the GOLD STAR.

The second way to settle the question is to pay tonnage dues on commercial cargo discharged or received by the GOLD STAR in Japanese ports. From the viewpoint of the merchants of Guam and of the Island Government this procedure does not involve any insurmountable difficulties, as the dues could be prorated among the merchants of Guam concerned, and if the dues were excessive the trade with Guam via the GOLD STAR would cease voluntarily. Navy Department General Order No. 6 provides for the compliance by naval vessels carrying cargo for commercial account with such consular regulations as apply to merchant vessels.

The chief objection to the second course of procedure is the possibility of the Japanese authorities misunderstanding the public character of the GOLD STAR, with undesirable complications arising from such misunderstanding.

In view of the foregoing, the Navy Department has directed, by radio dispatch of February 2, 1938, to the Governor of Guam, that the GOLD STAR will transport only Government cargo to and from Japan.

Respectfully,

William A. Deahy
Acting Secretary of the Navy.

The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.

F/M

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.93)
February 9 1938

No. 1434

To the American Ambassador,
Tokyo.

The Secretary of State refers to his telegram No. 353 of December 16, 7 p. m., 1937, and to the Embassy's telegram No. 651 of December 17, 6 p. m., 1937, in reply thereto, in regard to the transportation between Guam and Japanese ports by the U.S.S. Gold Star of private commercial cargo, and transmits, for the information of the Embassy, a copy of a letter dated February 4, 1938, addressed to him by the Secretary of the Navy stating that the Navy Department has directed that the Gold Star transport only Government cargo between Guam and Japan.

It is desired that the Embassy inform consular offices in Japan of the Navy Department's decision.

Enclosure:
From Secretary of the Navy, letter dated February 4, 1938.

894.841/7
MB 8 1938. PM
MB 100/7
MB 100/7
2/8/38
