894.11 Japan, Regulations Governing, October 13, 1949 - November 16, 1949 (File 1784)
ID: 894.11-1784   Pages: 4   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.11-japan-regulations-governing-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
In reply refer to
CON:DS
Date: October 27, 1949.
This form of communication is used to the interest of speed and economy. If a reply is necessary, address the Department of State, attention of the Division mentioned below.
SPEEDLETTER
TO: Mr. Isaac Flitterman,
6441 Moore Drive,
Los Angeles 36,
California.

The Department of State is in receipt of a memorandum from the Pacific Military Permit Branch of the Department of the Army stating that it is authorized to issue you a military permit to enter Japan, provided that the Department of State informs it that you have a valid travel document and have permission to enter some other country when your stay in Japan is completed.

If you furnish the Division of Protective Services of the Department of State the information the Pacific Military Permit Branch requests, this Division will take steps to obtain and mail your military permit to you.

It is suggested that in furnishing this information you mention numbers, issuing authority, validity periods and other information pertinent to your documents.

Walter F. Chappell
Assistant Chief
Division of Protective Services

CON:DS:DO Brien:erk
A true copy of the signed original. 26/27/49

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Office of International Trade
Washington, D. C.

APPLICATION FOR PERMISSION TO VISIT JAPAN

(The information requested in this form is for the confidential and sole use of the Departments of Commerce and State, and SCAP.)

1. Firm
2. Address
3. Telephone
4. Name of representative (and alternate, if any)
(a) Address
(b) Position in the firm
(c) Nationality

5. Purpose of proposed visit (Explain in detail, attaching separate sheet if needed)
Contracts with the Japanese authorities have been signed for the manufacture of the 1000 tons of produce. Cliterman's visit to expedite the quality and cost of the articles of large contracts of this type.

6. If the purpose of the proposed trip is property restitution
(a) Type of property owned
(b) Approximate pre-war value
(c) Location
(d) Sole owner or joint owner with Japanese or other aliens

7. Nature of business organization (Check)
(Corporation ☑) Partnership (☐) Individual (☐) Other (☐)

8. Incorporated or established under the laws of the State of California

9. Date incorporated or established 7/17/1947

10. Paid in capital $40,000.00

11. Type of business (Check)
(a) Manufacturer (☐)
(b) Wholesaler or Jobber (☑)
(c) Retailer (☐)
(d) Broker (☐)
(e) Importer (☑)
(f) Exporter (☑)
(g) Mfr's Export Agent (☐)
(h) Import Agent (☐)
(i) Other (Specify)

IT-736

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-

12. Goods bought or sold in Japan (pre-war) No
(a) Bought
(b) Sold
(c) Approximate annual volume of business with Japan

13. List names and location of pre-war subsidiaries, branches or resident agents in Japan
None

14. Bank or banks in which accounts have been established and/or transactions effected and from whom references can be requested
Notary Public, Los Angeles, Calif. (8th &amp; Hill)

15. How will your representative travel? Plane ( ) Ship (x)

16. Approximate date of proposed arrival in Japan Dec. 1, 1949

17. To what U.S. consular office should authorization for entry into Japan be cabled by the State Department (at firm's expense) if your representative is outside the United States?

18. What cities in Japan does he plan to visit? Tokyo, Kobe.

19. Estimated length of visit 2 months.

I, David Flitterman, hereby make oath that the information given above is true to the best of my knowledge and belief, and for and in behalf of said Isaac Flitterman.

Signature
David Flitterman

Title
President

Subscribed to and sworn to before me
this 13th day of Oct., 1949

Notary Public

SEAL
IT-736

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
UNION BANK &amp; TRUST CO.
OF LOS ANGELES
COMMERCIAL TRUST SAVINGS
MEMBER
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
CAPITAL AND SURPLUS
$7,000,000.00
EIGHTH AND HILL STREETS LOS ANGELES 55, CALIF.

October 13, 1949

The following information is furnished as a matter of business courtesy, and is for your own confidential use only. An opinion, expressed or implied, is subject to change without notice and no responsibility is assumed by this bank, its officers or the undersigned.

The Department of Commerce
Washington, D. C.

Gentlemen:

In connection with a trip abroad, we are pleased to confirm that Mr. David Flitterman, 1322 E. 12th St., this city, has been favorably known to this bank since July 1947.

He is identified to us as the president and majority stock holder of Surplus Corporation of America. This corporation maintains an account on our books, in which balances during 1949 have averaged in good four to low five figures.

We have in the past been pleased to extend this company unsecured credit to small five figures, which was liquidated to our entire satisfaction.

Judging from the satisfactory manner in which Mr. Flitterman has conducted his affairs with us, we believe him to be financially responsible for his commitments and entitled to your favorable consideration.

Yours very truly

F. R. Dansby, Manager
Credit Department

FRD:EB

"THE BANK OF PERSONAL SERVICE"
