894.5047 Economic Matters., Labor., Japan, Child Labor., May 12, 1923 - October 6, 1933 (File 795)
ID: 894.5047-795   Pages: 13   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.5047-economic-matters-labor-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE

SEE 894.5041/1 FOR Despatch #594

FROM Japan (Wilson) DATED May 12, 1923
TO Name

REGARDING - Encloses translation of factory law as amended by law passed last session of Diet and promulgated through official Gazette prohibiting employing minors less than 15 years of age.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo, May 12, 1923.

No. 594

The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.

Sir:

1/. I have the honor to enclose herewith a translation of the Factory Law, as amended by a law passed at the last session of the Diet and promulgated through the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on March 30, 1923. Provisions were embodied in a supplementary law promulgated on the same day forbidding the employment in factories, mines, quarries, dockyards, shipyards, and power plants, in engineering and construction work of all kinds, and in the various building

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-

building trades, of minors less than fifteen years of age. An exception is made, however, in the case of minors more than twelve years of age who have completed the prescribed primary school course.

I have the honor to be, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

Hugh R. Wilson,
Charge d'Affaires a.i.

Enclosures:
1. Translation of Factory Law as indicated above.

A true copy of the signed original.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
Translation.

We hereby sanction and cause to be promulgated the Law Amending the Factory Law, which has been passed by the Imperial Diet and approved by the Privy Council.

Imperial Diet Manual

March 29, 1923. Privy Seal

LAW AMENDING THE FACTORY LAW.

Law No. 23.

Article 1. This law shall apply to factories coming under the following clauses:

1. Those ordinarily employing not less than ten operatives.
2. Those engaged in work injurious to health.

Factories to which the application of this law is deemed unnecessary shall be executed by Imperial Decree.

Article 2. Cancelled.

Article 3. No factory owner may employ male persons not more than sixteen years of age and female operatives longer than eleven years per day.

The Minister of State concerned may, within fifteen years after the date of the enforcement of this law, permit the extension of the working day by not more than two hours, according to the nature of the work.

In applying the provisions of the two foregoing clauses to cases where two or more workshops are separately situated, the number of hours during which a operative is employed shall be added together.

Article 4. No factory owner may employ male persons not more than sixteen years of age and female operatives between the hours of 10 p.m. and 5 a.m.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-

Article 5. Cancelled.

Article 6. Cancelled.

Article 7. Factory owners shall set aside two days each month as holidays for female operatives and male persons less than sixteen years of age. They shall also set aside as recess periods thirty minutes or more out of each working day when such day exceeds six hours, and one hour or more out of each working day when such day exceeds ten hours.

The recess periods mentioned in the foregoing clause shall be given to all employees. It is provided, however, that exceptions may be made with the approval of the official having jurisdiction.

During the summer season, the cases where the recess periods exceed one hour, factory owners may with the approval of the official having jurisdiction extend the working day by the time by which the recess period exceeds one hour. The time by which the working day is extended shall not, however, exceed one hour.

Article 8. In the event of calamities, or when it is believed that a calamity may occur, the minister of state concerned may, within certain areas and in certain industries, suspend the application of the provisions of Article 3 and 4.

If due to any unavoidable cause any necessity exists, factory owners may with the approval of the officials having jurisdiction extend the working day, despite the provisions of Article 3, and may be permitted to employ female operatives sixteen years or more during such period, despite the provisions of Article 4. Factory owners may also, under such conditions, suspend the recess periods mentioned in the foregoing article.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-

It is provided, however, that in cases where it may be necessary, because of the rapid deterioration of raw material or to prevent the loss of raw material or supplies, work may be continued for a period not exceeding four days. Up to a total of seven days, in any one month the permission of the authorities need not be obtained.

In industries which are seasonally active, a factory owner may, with the previously secured permission of the authorities, extend the work in any by one hour during certain stated periods; provided, however, that the days in which the work in time is extended do not exceed within such period a proportion equivalent to one hundred and twenty days in the year.

Article 9. Factory owners shall not employ sales persons less than sixteen years of age or female operatives in cleaning, oiling, inspecting or repairing machines in motion or the dangerous parts of any power transmission contrivance, or to place or displace the belt or gearing of machines in motion or of any power transmission contrivance, or to employ them in any other danger as occupation.

Article 10. Factory owners may not employ persons not more than sixteen years of age at occupations requiring the handling of poisonous or powerful drugs, explosive or inflamable material, or other injurious material. Such persons may not be employed in places where dust or powder is raised to an unusual degree or where gas is generated, or in any other place which may be considered dangerous or injurious to health.

Article 11.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-

Article 11. The nature of the work coming under the provisions of the preceding clauses shall be determined by the minister of state concerned.

Subject to the approval of the minister of state concerned, the provisions of the preceding article may be made applicable to female operatives more than sixteen years of age.

Article 12. The minister of state concerned may ordain certain regulations restricting or prohibiting the employment of sick persons, women who are about to be confined or have been confined, and nursing mothers.

Article 13. When any factory building, buthouse, or equipment thereof is in accordance with existing regulations to be prejudicial to health, morals, or public interest, the administrative authorities may order the factory owner to carry out necessary representative of the survey, or they may prohibit the use of a part or the whole of such building, buthouse, or equipment.

The administrative authorities may issue instructions to operatives and apprentices to matters which the factory owner has been ordered to carry out.

Article 14. The administrative officials may inspect any factory building or structure supplementary thereto. They may also examine operatives and apprentices suffering or believed to be suffering from any illness or epidemic disease which will necessitate the restriction or suspension of the operation of the factory. They will in such cases carry with them evidence as to their identity.

Article 15. When an operative is injured, contracts any illness, or dies, in the discharge of his duties, the factory

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-

factory owner shall, in accordance with the provisions of an Imperial Decree, indemnify the operative or his relations or any person subsisting upon the wages of the operative at the time of his death.

Article 16. An apprentice, one desirous of becoming an apprentice, a factory owner or his legal representative, or a factory superintendent may obtain without charge from a registrar or his representative certificates as to the census registration of the apprentice or of one desirous of becoming an apprentice.

Article 17. Matters relating to the engagement or discharge of operatives, supervision of employment agencies, and to apprentices shall be determined by Imperial Decree.

Article 18. Factory owners may appoint factory superintendents vested with full powers in regard to the management of their factories.

A factory owner who does not reside within the jurisdiction of this law shall appoint a factory superintendent.

The approval of the supervisory authorities shall be obtained with regard to the appointment of any person as factory superintendent. This provision shall not obtain, however, when the person is selected from the directors of juridical persons, company members directing the affairs of a company, company members who may represent the company, company directors, and from among those who, in accordance with legal provisions, are required to represent or manage the affairs of a juridical person.

Article 19.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.96)
-6-

Article 19. For the purposes of this law and of ordinances issued in accordance with this law, factory superintendents mentioned in the preceding article may be regarded as factory owners. This shall not apply, however, to the provisions of Article 19.

When the factory owner is a minor without the mental competency of a person of full age, an incompetent, or a juridical person, and has not appointed a factory superintendent, his legal guardian, or in the case of a juridical person its directors, legal representatives and managers shall be subject to the provisions of the preceding paragraph in matters relative to the operation of the factory.

Article 20. Factory owners, or those defined by the preceding article as representatives of factory owners, violating the provisions of this law, ordinances based on this law, or any decisions of the court on this law, shall be fined not more than one thousand yen.

Article 21. Those refusing to permit, or hindering, the making of instructions by the properly constituted authorities, or evade such instructions, those failing to reply or who reply falsely to the interrogatories of such authorities, and those hindering the evasion of operatives and apprentices shall be fined not more than five hundred yen.

Article 22. A factory owner of any person defined by Article 19 as a representative of a factory owner may not escape the penal provisions of this law for any act violating this law, and ordinances and orders based on this law, which may be committed by the head of his family, any attorney.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-

attorney, relation, person domiciled with him, employee or any other person engaged by him in his business, by pleading that the act was not committed under his direction. This provision shall not apply, however, if he has exercised reasonable supervision over the factory.

A factory owner or any person defined in Article 19 as a representative of a factory owner and not escape the penal provisions of this law by pleading in accordance to the age of any operative. This provision shall not apply, however, if no fault was committed by the factory owner, his representative, or any person entrusted with supervisory powers.

Article 23. Those dissatisfied with the orders of the administrative authorities issued in accordance with this law may file protests, and when their rights have been illegally impaired they may institute administrative litigation.

Article 24. The minister of State may apply the provisions of Article 9, 11, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 23 to factories not coming under Article 1 but using motive power.

Article 25. With the exception of penal provisions and provisions relating to factory superintendents, this law and ordinances issued in accordance with this law shall be applicable to state and other factories.

Supplementary Provisions.

The date on which this law shall become effective shall be determined by Imperial Decree.

For a period of three years after the date on which this law becomes effective, the phrase "sixteen years"

occurring

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
- 6 -

occurring in this law shall be taken to mean fifteen
years.

For a period of three years after the date on which
this law becomes effective, the provisions of Article 4
shall not be applicable to cases where operatives are
divided into two or more shifts.

Whenever male persons lose their fifteen years of age and
female operatives are employed under the provisions of
the foregoing paragraph, they shall be given four days
vacation each month, and their hours of work shall be
changed every ten days or oftener.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
02
PM RECD
72
44
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL
Tokyo, Japan, October 6, 1933.

SUBJECT: Child Welfare Law.
THE HONORABLE
SECRETARY OF STATE.
WASHINGTON.

DIVISION OF
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OCT 23 1933
Department of State

Copy to
Children's Bureau

SIR:

I have the honor to report that on October 1, 1933, a new law protecting children from persecution and various forms of exploitation as wage-earners went into effect in Japan, marking an important step in the social policy of the Japanese Government.

The salient features of the law are as follows. Children under 14 must not be forced to become beggars or peddlars or to engage in dangerous occupations such as acrobatic performances, or serve as waitresses or geisha where sake is served. Neither may an invalid or deformed child be exposed to public view for monetary gain. Heads of cities, wards, towns and villages are instructed to report violations of the law to the prefectural government, such violations incurring a penalty of a prison term of less than one year or a fine of ¥1,000.

It is estimated that more than 1,500 children under 14 years in the city of Tokyo have been affected through the passage of this law. According to the Chief of the Children's Bureau of the Municipal Office, there

have

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-

have been in Tokyo 300 child beggars, 500 peddlars, 300 street singers, 270 geisha, 170 waitresses, and quite a number of crippled and abnormal children employed in circuses and other forms of entertainment.

The fact that no serious objections were raised against the passage of the law indicates an improvement in the attitude of the public toward child welfare.

One feature of the new law is that the national and municipal governments are paying special attention to the relief of poor families who are deprived of their means of sustenance through the prohibition of child labor provided in the law.

Laws prohibiting general employment of children under 14 in factories and in work on the sea became effective in 1926 and 1928 respectively. A plan to protect children working in shops failed to materialize, owing to opposition of employers.

Respectfully yours,

Arthur Garrels,
American Consul General.

P.S. The text of the law will be forwarded when translation is available.

File No. 850.4.
AG/yo.
