894.646 Engineering., Japan, Power., September 18, 1946 - April 22, 1949 (File 1716)
ID: 894.646-1716   Pages: 47   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.646-engineering-japan-power
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
334Suricc 52
Secretary of State-War-Mavy Coord-nating
September 18, 1946
Committee
H. M. Stout, SWNCc Directorate
Request of United States Member of Far Eastern Commission for
Clarification of FEC O24/1 which Originated as SWNCC 52/20.
214.646/9-1346
In a memorandum dated September 13, 1946, the United States Member of
the Far Eastern Commission informed the State Member of SWNCC, General Hilldring,
that he had withdrawn, for purposes of clarification, FEC O24/1, "Japanese
Research in Technological Subjects," from further Commission consideration at
this time. FEC O24/1 embodied the conclusions of SWNCC 52/20 which were
transmitted by the Department of State to the United States Member of the
Far Eastern Commission in accordance with Paragraph 8 of that paper.
The United States Member of the Far Eastern Commission has requested that
SWWCC 52/20 be reconsidered,  th particular reference to the following points:
(a) The Commission assumes that the previous United States policy
h
on Japanese research, as stated in FEC-Ol2, still stands, to
the effect that research activities on atomic energy or related
matters should not be ermitted in Japan.
(b)
Scme non-technical reason or reasons should be stated in support
of any change in this previous United States position.
A
(c)
The relationship between any proposed policy with respect to
atomic research in Japan and the current consideration of world-
wide control of atomic energy and research by the United Nations
should be stated.
It is Ceneral Hilldring's recommendation that SWNCC 52/20 be reconsidered
in accordance with the request of the United States Member of the Far Eastem
Commission, and it is suggested that the matter be referred to the Far Eastern
Subcommittee of SWNCC with a view to the preparation of a report for SWNCC
consideration at an early date. Att ched is an excerpt from the minutes of
the 28th meeting of the FEC Steering Committee which will be helpful to the
SWNCC Subcommittee in its reconsideration of SWNCC 52/20.
Attachment

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.89)
5454681
8.2
Deog
FE
Dc/e
011946
TOP SEBEY
MIDIORANDUN POR THE UNITED STATES MENBER,
PAR KASTERN CONISSION
In acsordanee with instruetions of Desmber 9,
1946 from the state-War-Navy Ceordimatlng Commistee,
894.64€/12
there 1s enolosed a sopy or swn00 sg/z3 regarding
Publicity Aspeet of Proposed Imstruetions by SdAF
Authorising Japanese Researeh 1s Teehnelegieal Subjests,
fer the guidanee of the Ualted states Nember of the
Far Lastern Commission in obtaining Commlsslon agree-
ment to a polley deslsion on this question. By la-
formal actlon on Deeember 6, the State-War-Mavy Coerdimat-
ing Comm1ttee approved Swnc0 S2/23 as mended by sw=00
69724.
The United States Member of the Far Xastern Commis-
£46
sion is requested to present Appendix "p" to the
Commission as  asis for disoussion in remching an
agreement in the Far FEastern Commisslon on a poliey for
control of fundamental sclentifio researoh and meademie
instruotion in Japan in the field of muolear physles.
V1.
Cou
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seeretary
Enclosure:
Copy No. BB, BWN0O 52/23.
JA: ALDuhn 1ng/eg

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
166+
543461
TOP SECRET
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-4953
9 December 1946
PFC 11 1946
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
Subject: Publicity Aspect of Proposed Instructions
by SCAP Authorizing Japanese Research in
Technological Subjects.
By 1nformal action on 6 December 1946 the State-War
894.646/12-946
Navy Coordinating Committee approved SWNCC 52/23 as amended
by SWNCC 52/24.
Copies Nos. 55 and 56 of the revised approved paper
are forwarded herewith. It is requested that Copy No. 56
of this paper be submitted by the State Department to the
United States member on the Far Eastern Commission for his
guidance in obtaining Commission agreement to a policy
decision of the question. The United States member on the
Far Eastern Commission should be requested by the Department
of State to present Appendix "B" to the Commission as a
basis for discussion in reaching an agreement in the Far
Eastern Commission on a policy for control of fundamental
scientific research and academic instruction in Japan in the
field of nuclear physics.
TOP SECRET
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
H. M. Moseley
for
J. H. HILLDRIN,
Chairman
icemo o us mauby, ite
Enclosure:
12/10/46
Copies Nos. 55 & 56,
9
DEC
SWNCC 52/23
HD
FILED
231946
4
TOP SECRET

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
167
TOPSFRET
56
TOP SECRET
COPY NO.
6 December 1946
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
DECISION AMENDING SWNCC 52/23
PUBLICITY ASPECT OF PROPOSED INSTRUCTIONS BY
SCAP
AUTHORIZING JAPANESE RESEARCH IN TECHNOLOGICAL SUBJECTS
References:
a. SWNCC 52/20
b. SWNCC 52/22/D
C. SWNCC 52/23
d. SWNCC 52/24
e. SFE 112/10
Note by the Secretaries
1. By informal action on 6 December 1946 the State-War-Navy
Coordinating Committee approved SWNCC 52/23 as amended by SWNCC
52/24.
2. Holders of SWNCC 52/23 are requested to substitute the
attached revised page 74 for the one contained therein and des-
troy the latter by burning.
H. W. MOSELEY
W. A. SCHULGEN
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
56
TOP SECRET
COPY NO.
TOP SECRET
SWNCC 52/23
22 October 1946
Pages 71 - 78, incl.
STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
PUBLICITY ASPECT OF PROPOSED INSTRUCTIONS BY
SCAP AUTHORIZING JAPANESE RESEARCH IN TECHNOLOGICAL SUBJECTS
References:
a. SWNCC 52/20
b. SWNCC 52/22/D
c. SFE 112/10
Note by the Secretaries
1. The enclosure, a report by the State-War-Navy Coordinat-
ing Subcommittee for the Far East in response to reference b,
is circulated for consideration by the Committee.
2. A copy of this report has been forwarded to the Joint
Chiefs of Staff for comment from a military point of view.
These comments will be circulated to the Committee upon receipt
thereof from the Secretary, Joint Chiefs of Staff.
H. W. MOSELEY
A. D. REID
V. L. LOWRANCE
Secretariat

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
ENCLOSURE
PUBLICITY ASPECT OF PROPOSED INSTRUCTIONS BY
SCAP AUTHORIZING JAPANESE RESEARCH IN TECHNOLOGICAL SUBJECTS
Report by the
State-War-Navy Coordinating Subcommittee for the Far East
THE PROBLEM
1. To obtain from the Far Eastern Commission a policy
regarding Japanese research in the atomic energy field.
FACTS BEARING ON THE PROBLEM
2. SCAP has requested in CS 59629 (Appendix "A")
clarification as to whether or not a proposed instruction to
authorize research in technological subjects, which when
issued to the Imperial Japanese Government will be given
publicity in the Japanese press, is in conflict with SWNCC
52/9.
• SWNCC 52/9 states that no publicity is to be given
SCAP's instructions on research activities on atomic energy
Without further directions from the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
3. It is obvious that if SCAP issues the instructions
to the Japanese Government suggested in Appendix "A" they will
be given publicity and consequently will be in conflict with
the provisions in SWNCC 52/9 which required no publicity be
given to these matters.
4. Policy presently in effect in Japan is that all
research activities on atomic energy and related matters is
forbidden.
5. The Commanding General, Manhattan Engineer District,
advises that specific advice be given SCAP on the interpretation
of the phrase "all research on atomic energy and related
subjects" as used in SWNCC 52/9 and recommends that guidance
be issued General MacArthur in reference to the control of
atomic energy activities.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
6.
The following message was dispatched to SCAP on
16 May:
"Your CX-59629 now under study by State, War and
Navy Departments, with view to obtaining eventual
multilateral policy directive frcm Far Eastern
Commission.
Joint Chiefs of Staff concur with State,
War and Navy Departments that you should defer
announcement of any instructions on this subject
until receipt from Joint Chiefs cf Staff of a
directive based upon a policy directive of Far
Eastern Commission."
It is recalled that the destruction of a Japanese
cyclotron resulted in very unfavorable and harsh criticism
of SCAP and the United States Government by scientists and
the press in the United States. In view of the impossibility
of issuing instructions to the Japanese Government which would
limit or prchibit Japanese activities in research in atomic
energy without publicity being given to such instructions, the
United States Government feels that any decision to restrict
fundamental scientific research in Japan in atomic energy
should be an inter-Allied rather than purely American decision.
Consequently, it would be advisable for the Far Eastern Commission
to make an inter-Allied decision on the matter rather than for
the United States to act unilaterally and thus have to bear
alone such criticism
as might arise from such action.
8.
Present policy for atomic research activities in Germany
includes provision for authorizing scientific research in non-
military fields, and does not specifically exclude fundamental
research in nucleer physics as distinct from applied nuclear
physics.
This policy was promulgated multilaterally upon agree-
ment of the Allied Control Council for Germany through Law No.
25 (See Annex to Appendix "B").
There would seem to be no valid
reason for restricting fundamental soientific research in nuclear
physics in Japan beyond that adopted for Germany.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
9. Present efforts of the Atomic Energy Commission of the
United Nations are directed toward establishing effective
controls to prevent employment of atomic energy for warlike
purposes while concurrently permitting world-wide researoh
and development of atomic energy for peaceful uses. The
preferred position of the United States as presented in
Appendix "B" is in no way contrary to any proposals currently
being considered by the United Nations for the international
control of atomic energy. When international controls are
established, signatory nations, including the U. S., will bind
themselves to the provisions of the accepted agreement. Should
Japan then be engaged in any activities prohibited by that
agreenent, the occupying powers will be in a position to effect
necessary changes. Should a peace treaty with Japan be put
into effect prior to establishing an international atomic
agreement, a provision that Japan will adhere to any atomic
energy controls to be established should be included in the
treaty.
CONCLUSIONS
10.
It is concluded that
a. The Far Eastern Commission should adopt as a
matter of policy a statement regarding control of
Japanese research in the atomic energy field.
b. The preferred position of the United States
in reference to fundamental scientific research and
academic instruction in Japan in the field of nuolear
physics ia containci in Appendix "B".
c. If
f the United States member of the Far Eastern
Commission is unable to obtain agreement in the Far
Eastern Commission for the position as stated in
Appendix "B" he should endeavor to obtain agreement
by the FEC for a policy decision on fundamental
scientific research and academio instruction in Japan
ALONAN
50/03
-73-
Enclosure

=== Page 9 === (confidence 1.00)
TOP SECRET
in the field of nuclear physics, accepting, if necessary,
a position other, but not less restrictive, than that pre-
sented in Appendix "B" in order to obtain international
agreement.
RECOMMENDATIONS
11. It is recommended that after approval by the Joint
Chiefs of Staff, if they have no objections from a military
point of view, and after approval by the State-War-Navy Coordin-
ating Committee, this paper be submitted by the State Department
to the United States member of the Far Eastern Commission for
his guidance in obtaining Commission agreement to a policy de-
cision of the question. The United States member on the Far
Eastern Commission should be requested by the Department of
State to present Appendix "B" to the Commission as a basis for
discussion in reaching an agreement in the Far Eastern Commis-
sion on a policy for control of fundamental scientific research
and academic instruction in Japan in the field of nuclear
physics.

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
TOP SECRET
APPENDIX "A"
From:
CINCAFPAC Command, Tokyo, Japan
To:
War Department
Nr:
CX-59629
6 Apri1 1946
From SCAP to WARCoS for JCS. Nr CX-59629
TOP SECRET.
In routine instructions now prepared for issue to
authorize research in technological subjects which do not
possess a war potential, the following appears: "Except where
activities are directed towards the development of instruments
of war, including such activities in the field of atomic nuclear
energy research and development or which are or may be specifi-
cally prohibited by SCAP, research and teaching for the
extension of scientific and technical knowledge is permitted."
Directives issued by SCAP to the Imperial Japanese governments
are subject to uncontrolled publicity in the Japanese press.
In view of this fact request advice as to whether statement
quoted above is considered to be in conflict with provisions
urad WX 88780. (Appendix "A" to SWNCC 52/9)
End
CM-IN-1330 (6 Apr 46)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
79
TOP SECRET
APPENDIX "B"
4/12.546
1. a. Fundamental scientific research in the field of
atomic energy of a wholly or primarily military nature
shall be prohibited.
b. Fundamental scientific research in the field of
atomic energy which is not of a wholly or primarily
military nature shall be prohibited only insofar as
it requires for its conduct installations which, on
account of their size or their special or peculiar
construction, would be valuable for any applied
scientific research of a wholly or primarily military
nature.
c. Fundamental scientific research means research
of an exploratory character in any field directed
towards the discovery of new knowledge, theories,
principles or laws of nature, or of new compounds or
materials.
2. All researoh or development in Japan which has for
its purpose the production of fissionable atomic species
except their production in minute quantities for use in
fundamental scientific research and academic instruction only
consistent with paragraph 1 above, should be prohibited.
3。
All research or development in Japan which has for its
purpose the separation or concentration of fissionable species
of atomic isotopes from the naturally occuring isotope mixture
of a chemical element should be prohibited except when such
isotope separation is in minute quantities to be used for
fundamental research purposes only and consistent with paragraph
1 above.
4. All development, or construction in Japan which has
for its purposes the utilization of atomic nuclear energy for
weapons of war or the operation of war industries, or the
operation of power producing installations which might easily

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.97)
767
80
TOP SECRET
be converted to warlike purposes, should be prohibited.
5. The mining, processing and refining of radioactive
materials in Japan for authorized uses should be permitted
only in instances specifically approved by SCAP and should be
under such surveillance as necessary to prevent stockpiling
of such materials for war purposes.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
170
81
294.646/12-946
-TOP SECRET
ANNEX TO APPENDIX "B"
EXTRACTS FROM LAW NO. 25, "CONTROL OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH"
ALLIED CONTROL AUTHORITY, CONTROL COUNCIL FOR GERMANY
ARTICLE III, Par. 1
"Fundamental scientific research of a wholly or primarily
military nature shall be prohibited."
ARTICLE III, Par. 2
"Fundamental scientific research which is not of a wholly
or primarily military nature shall be prohibited only insofar
as it requires for its conduct installations which, on account
of their size or their special or peculiar construction, would
be valuable for any applied scientific research of a wholly
or primarily military nature."
ARTICLE VII, Par. b
" IFundamental scientific research' means research of an explora-
tory character in any field directed towards the discovery of
new knowledge, theories, principles or laws of nature, or of
new compounds or materials."

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
30 January 1947
13747
The Honorable George C. Marshall
Secretary of State
1947
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
alD
The Terms of Reference of the Far Eastern Commission pro-
vide that one of the functions of the Commission should be to
"formulate the policies, principles and standards in conformity
with which the fulfillment by Japan of its obligations under the
Terms of Surrender may be accomplished."
894.646/1-3047
It is further provided that when such decisions are made
by the Far Eastern Commission, "The United States Government shall
prepare directives in accordance with the policy decisions of the
Commission and shall transmit then to the Supreme Commander through
the appropriate United States Government agency."
At the forty-third meeting of the Far Eastern Commission
held at 25l6 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on
30 January 1947, the enclosed policy decision relative to Japanese
Research and Activity in the Field of Atomic Energy was unanimously
approved.
As Secretary General of the Far Eastern Commission, I
have been instructed to forward this decision to you on behalf of
the Commission, in order that the appropriate directives may be
prepared and transmitted to the Supreme Commander in accordance
with the Terms of Reference.
Before the enclosed policy decision was formally approved
894.646
by the Commission, the United Kingdom Member made a formal state-
ment, explaining the understanding of his Government in connection
with the phrase "field of atomic energy" and with the phrase "all
research or development which has for its purpose..." He requested
that this statement, which he was instructed to make, be recorded
in the minutes. The Commission agreed that this statement should
be transmitted to the Suprome Commander for his information and
guidance.
-1-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
The Commission also agreed that a statement of opinion
by the Indian Member relative to atomic research in Japan should
also be transmitted to the Supreme Commander for his information.
The Chairman has accordingly instructed me to request
that the United States Government, in transmitting the enclosed
policy decision to the Supreme Commander, at the same time inform
the Supreme Commander of the statement by the United Kingdom Member
and of the opinion expressed by the Indian Member, both of which
are set forth in the enclosed excerpt from the draft minutes of the
Commission's forty-third meeting.
In adopting the enclosed policy decision the Commission
agreed that it should be released to the press. In accordance with
our normal procedure I would appreciate it if you could make arrange-
ments to notify me when the enclosed policy decision has been re-
ceived in Tokyo. Because of the intention of not releasing the
enclosure to the press until it has been received in Tokyo, the
Commission would also appreciate it if appropriate arrangements
might be made to preserve the necessary security in the transmission
of this message.
Sincerely yours,
Telon/l
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Enclosures

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE. N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
The attached copy of excerpte from the draft minutes
of the forty-third meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, held
at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Morthwest, Washington, D. C., on
FW 544646
30 January 1947, has been compared with the original text and
is hereby certified to be correct.
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
30 January 1947
104

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
ENCLOSURE
JAPANESE RESEARCH AND ACTIVITY IN THE FIELD OF ATOMIC EHERGY
1. Japanese research or other activity in the field of
atomic energy should be governed by the following:
&. such decisions by the United Nations on international
control of atomic energy as are applicable;
b. additional restrictive policies established for the
disarmament and control of Japan.
2. In view of continuing discussion of the foregoing, the
Far Eastern Commission considers that the Japanese should not be
permitted at present to conduct research in the field of atomic
energy, or to develop or use atomic energy. The Commission
accordingly establishes the following policy:
 All research in Japan, of either a fundamental or
applied nature, in the field of atomic energy should be pro-
hibited, including:
(1) all research or development which has for its
purpose the production of fissionable atomic species;
(2) all research or development which has for its
purpose the separation or concentration of fissionable
species of atomic isotopes from the naturally occurring
isotope mixture of a chemical element.
b. All development or construction in Japan which has
for its purpose the utilization of atomic nuclear energy
should be prohibited.
c. The mining, processing, and refining of radioactive
materials in Japan for authorized purposes, such as radium
for medical uses, should be permitted only in those instances
specifically approved by the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers and under his surveillance.
FEC-024/6

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of excerpts from the draft minutes
of the forty-third meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, held
at 2516 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington, D. C., on
30 January 1947, has been compared with the original text and
FW 894.646
is hereby certified to be correct.
Nelorn Tmham
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
30 January 1947

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8, D. C.
The attached copy of excerpte from the draft minutes
of the forty-third meeting of the Far Eastern Commission, held
at 25l6 Massachusetts Avenue, Northwest, Washington D. C., on
30 January 1947, has been compared with the original text and
FW 894.646
is hereby certified to be correct.
Netorn Tmhn
Nelson T. Johnson
Secretary General
Washington, D. C.
30 January 1947

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
EXCERPT FROM THE MINUTES OF THE FORTY-THIRD MEETING OF THE FEC. 3O JAN. 1947
ITEM 4 • JAPANESE RESEARCH AND ACTIVITY IN THE FIELD OF ATOMIC ENERGY
(FEC-024/6)
(STATEMENT BY THE UNITED KINGDOM MEMBER)
MR. GRAVEs said that he had been instructed by his Government to offer
the following statement as a clarification of the terms used in FEC-O24/6:
"I am instructed to refer to paragraph 2A of the pro-
posed policy and particularly to the words 'field of atomic
energy'. If the term is intended to be used in the sense
in which it is defined in the British Atomic Energy Act
the prohibition would cover practically the whole field of
nuclear physics and other activities also. We do not ob-
ject to the rigid curtailment of fundamental physics re-
search in Japan but we wish to ensure that there is con-
sensus of opinion in the Commission as to the extent of
the prohibition in order that the emergence of possible
differences of opinion as to the meaning of the term shall
be avoided.
"And then in paragraph 2A (1) and (2) the phrase
'all rosearch or development which has for its purpose'
occurs.
"We suggest that the words 'which has for its purpose'
might lead to subsequent difficulties, since it might
possibly be claimed that a given branch of research which
was intended for some entirely different purpose had un-
expectedly given results of interest in the field of
atomic energy. In view of this I am instructed to pro-
pose that the authority appointed to supervise the imple-
mentation of this policy decision, which for the time
being will no doubt be the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers, should be empowered to adjudicate as to
whether any proposed piece of research or development has
for its purpose matters connected with atomic energy."
MR. GRaVES requested that his formal statement be incorporated in the
Minutes.
(STATEMENT BY THE INDIAN MEMBER)
SIR GIRJA BAJPAI presented the following Statement:
Mr. Chairman, when we considered this paper last time I was in the
unfortunate position of not having yet received the views of my Government.
I have those now, and with your permission I would like to submit them to
you briefly.
-1-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
When the paper was being considered in the appropriate committee, I
gather that some representative of the War Department or the State Depart-
ment stated that in Germany what you might call fundamental nuclear research
is permitted, but under strict control so as to ensure that that research
is not either directly or indirectly utilized for warlik purposes or pur-
poses that might endanger the peace. My Government feel that insofar as
research is permitted in Germany in these facts there is no reason why.
subject to similar control and supervision, it should not be permitted in
Japan. They are no more interested in rearming Japan or increasing the war
potential in Japan than anybody else around this table. As a matter of fact,
we are all anxious that Japan's capacity for making war should be effectively
and completely curtailed. All the same -- I am not a physicist and therefore
I speak with great reserve and diffidence -- we have one or two rather good
physicists in India and they went into this matter and they said that this
may perhaps be too far-reaching although not insofar as research in pure
physics and the structure of the atom is concerned. And so I have instruc-
tions to put this point of view before the Commission, but I am not insist-
ing that this opinion be recorded or anything of that sort.

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
FE
In Reply Refer to
JA
Hnm
MEMORANDUM FOR THE BECRETARY. SWHOO
Subjeot:
Draft Direotive Regarding Japanese
Researoh and Aotivity in the Field
of Atomlo knergy.
There ie enolosed a draft directive prepared
894.646/1-3047
on the basis of a polioy decislon unanimously ap-
proved at the forty-third meeting of the Far Eastern
Commission on January 30, 1947, under the provisions
of paragraph II, A, i, of its terme of referenoe.
It will be noted that this polioy deaision is quoted
verbatim in the emolosed draft direotive.
It ls reguested that the enolosed direative be
forwarded to the Joint Ohiefs of staff for trans-
mission to General MaoArthur for his guidanoe in
accordanoe with paragraph I1I, 1, of the terms of
referenoe of the Far Eastern Commlssion. It is
assumed that if the Joint Chiefs of Staff have any
questlon regarding the draft direotive they will
refer the matter to the State Department for clari-
ficatlon before transmitting a direotive on the
subject.
It is also requested that the snolosed state-
ment by the United Kingdom Kember and opinion ex-
pressed by the Indian Kember regurding the polioy
decision, as set forth in the draft minutes of the
forty-third meeting or the Far Eastern Commlssion,
he transmitted to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers for his information.
The Seoretary-General of the Far Eastern Commission
has requeated that the Joint Ohiefs of Staff, in trans-
mitting the enolosed draft direotive to the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, inform him that in
0
adopting the polioy decision on whioh this direotive is
47
based

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
based the Commission agreed that it should be releaeek
prosedure, meknowledgmmt of the reseipt of the dires-
sive is requested. Beeanse of the iatention of net
releasing the emolosure to the press watil it has bess
reseived in Tokye, the Commissiom womld alse appresiate
it if appropriate arrangemeats might be made te presarve
the necessary security in the transalssion of thls message.
J. N. Hilláring
Assistant Seeretary
Enclosures:
1. Draft Direotive.
2.
Copy of Exoerpts from
Mimutes of Forty-Third
Meeting of FKc.
ou
SWNCC
JA: AL Dunn ing/sg
FE
2/3/47
gn
(al gue Crain)

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
THE STATE-WAR-NAVY COORDINATING COMMITTEE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
SWN-5136
A 10 3
12 February 1947
FEB 18 1947
RANCH
3
(S)
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE:
(Attention: Mr. J. K. Penfield - FE)
R
Subject:
Copies for the Far Eastern Commission
of Directive to the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
Enclosed are three copies of Directive, Serial
No. 67, trans  ted to the Supreme Commander for the
894.646/2-1247
Allied Powers by the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Copy No. 1
is for transmittal to the Far Eastern Commission and
copies Nos. 2 and 3 are for the files of the State
Department.
For the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee:
Secretary
Enclosures:
Copy Nos. 1, 2, & 3,
FILED
Serial No. 67
yen
心
347
1027
Memr
beD
894.646
EH
RESTRICTED

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
2
RESTRICTED
COPY-NO.
Serial No. 67
7 February 1947
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
JAPANESE RESEARCH AND ACTIVITY IN THE
FIELD OF ATOMIC ENERGY
The following directive, prepared by the State Department
to implement the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
on 30 January 1947 under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1,
of its terms of referencc, has been received from the State,
War and Navy Departments for transmission to you for your guid-
ance in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of those terms of
reference:
"1. Japanese rescarch or other activity in the field
of atomic energy should be governed by the following:
a. Such decisions by the United Nations on inter-
national control of atomic energy as are applicable;
b. Additional restrictive policies established for
the disarmanent and control of Japan.
2. In view of continuing discussion of the foregoing,
the Far Eastern Connission considers that the Japanese
should not be pernitted at present to conduct research in
the field of atomic energy, or to develop or use atomic
energy.
The Cormission accordingly establishes the following
policy:
a. All research in Japan, of either a fundamental or
applied nature, in the field of atomic energy should
prohibited, including:
1.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
(1) All research or development which has for its
purpose the production of fissionable atomic species;
(2) All research or development which s for its
purpose the separation or concentration of fissionadle
species of atonic isotopes from naturally occurring
isotope mixture of a chemical element.
b. All development or construction in Japan which
has for its purpose the utilization of atomic nuclear
energy should be prohibited.
c. The mining, processing, and refining of radio-
active materials in Japan for authorized purposes, such
as radiun for medical uses, should be permitted only in
those instances specifically approved by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Fowers and under his surveillance."

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
3
RESTRICTED
COPY NO.
Serial No. 67
7 February 1947
DIRECTIVE TO THE SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
JAPANESE RESEARCH AND ACTIVITY IN THE
FIELD OF ATOMIC ENERGY
The following directive, prepared by the State Department
to implement the policy adopted by the Far Eastern Commission
on 30 January 1947 under the provisions of paragraph II, A, 1,
of its terms of refercnce, has been received from the State,
War and Navy Departments for transmission to you for your guid-
ance in accordance with paragraph III, 1, of those terms of
reference:
"1. Japanese rescarch or other activity in the fieid
of atomic energy should be governed by the following:
a. Such decisions by the United Nations on inter-
national control of atomic energy as are applicable;
b. Additional restrictive policies established for
the disarmanent and control of Japan.
2. In view of continuing discussion of the foregoing,
the Far Eastern Commission considers that the Japanese
should not be pernitted at present to conduct research in
the field of atomic energy, or to develop or use atomic
energy. The Commission accordingly establishes the following
policy:
a. All research in Japan, of either a fundamental or
applied nature, in the field of atomic energy should be
prohibited, including:
1.

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
(1) All research or development which has for its
purpose the production of fissionable atomic species;
(2) All research or development which s for its
purpose the separation or concentration of fissionadle
species of atomic isotopes from naturally occurring
isotope mixture of a chemical element.
b. All development or construction in Japan which
has for its purposc the utilization of atomic nuclear
energy should be prohibited.
c. The mining, processing, and refining of radio-
active materials in Japan for authorized purposes, such
as radiun for medical uses, should be permitted only in
those instances specifically approved by the Supreme
Cormander for the Allied Fowers and under his surveillance."

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.95)
FEB 18194
In reply refer to
JA
RESTRICTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
89
In accordance with instructions of February 12,
94.646/2-1247
1947, from the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee,
there is enclosed a certified copy of a direotive,
Serial No. 67, to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers regarding Japanese Researoh and Aotivity in the
Field of Atomio Energy to be filed with the Far Eastern
Commission under the provisions of paragraph III 4,
of its terms of Reference.
910
CE
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seoretary
Enclosure:
Copy No. 1 (certiried) of
CS/R
894.646
Direetive to the Supreme
Command for the Allied
Powers, Serial No. 67
JA: ALDanning: bms
2/14/47
FE
ana
2-1247
18 1947

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.96)
23
H.R.
MEMORANDUM TO THE FILES (O - RECORDS)
Subject: Japanese Research in Atom Bomb Effects
Memo of July 8 on the above subject was circulated by the under-
signed to NA, OE, P and R. Copy is ettached, with accompanying notes
of comment from R and U, neither of which offered any objection to
release of the papers in question.
Mr. Allison (NA) telephoned on July 20 to advise that there was no
objecticn from his office to the proposed authorization from JCS to SCAP
for publication of papers on the above subject, if AEC approves. He
suggested, however, that no special press attention should be drawn to
such approvel for publication, either in the U. S. or in Japan.
This suggestion was communicated by telephone to Col. Lawlor, Flans
and Folicy Group, P & O Division, Generel Staff, Department of the Army on
inclusion in their reply to SCAP.
894.64
J. Franklin Ray, Jr.
cc: Mr. Claxton
V
8
1989
1

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
FEB 18 194
In reply refer to
JA
RESTRICTED
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY GENERAL,
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
894.646/2
In accordance with instruotions of February 12,
1947, from the State-War-Navy Coordinating Committee,
there is enclosed a certified copy of a direotive,
Serial No. 67, to the Supreme Commander for the Allied
2-1247
Powers regarding Japanese Researoh and Aotivity in the
Field of Atomio Energy to be filed with the Far Eastern
Commission under the provisions of paragraph III 4,
of its terms of Referenoe.
J. H. Hilldring
Assistant Seoretary
Enclosure:
894.646
Copy No. 1 (certified) of
C
Direetive to the Supreme
S
Command for the Allied
1
Powers, Serial No. 67
0
JA: ALDunning: bms
2/14/4715
FE
ana
v-1247
05
18 1947

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D.C.
Receipt of Classified Material
288
O - Mr, J. Franklin Ray
To:
U - R. Gordon Arneson
From:
July 12, 1948
Date:
Description
cc memo July 8, 1948 from Mr. Ray to Messrs. Allison, Whitman,
Berkov, and Armstrong (7/9,p.2)
I have personally received the material described above
and accept full responsibility for its safe handling, storage,
and transmittal elsewhere in accordance with existing regulations.
Date
Signed
Please return signed original receipt to
panxoxxoxxxooonR. Gordon Arneson
Office of the Under Secretary
Department of State
RoomNew State Building
5114

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF ST
THE UNDER SECRETARY
July 12, 1948
O - Mr. J. Franklin Ray
This office perceives no
objection to the procedure out-
lined in the attached memorandum
of July 8.
R.Sreom Orneson
R. Gordon Arneson
1987

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF
TATE
SPECIAL ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY
R
O- g Fackei Ray, Jr.
hle have me comment
ou onggestion in this
matter, Shonld niot
Ed gallion in U have
Gook, though?
wrank Aunlong

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
NA - Mr. Allison
July 8, 1948
OE - Mr. Whitman
P - Mr. Berkov
R - Mr. Armstrong
From: 0 - J. Franklin Ray, Jr., Room 4215 New State
UNDER SECRETARY'S OFFICE
JU9 1948
Subject: Japanese Research in Atom Bomb effegts.
2
1. SCAP CM IN 4097 of 21 June 1948 to the JCS reports
that in accordance with SWNCC directive 216/1, Japanese
scientists have been verbally requested to submit papers on
the above subject to SCAP before publication. Such papers
as received have been sent to JCS and not relessed pending
instructions from JCS as to whether such release might
"jeopardise the security", "prejudice...relations with s
foreign country", or "derogate from...advantages in the field
8
of scientific research," of the United States.
6
2. The papers in question are "medical studies of
casualties and survivors of blasts, effects of bomb damage,
surveys of the amount of residual activity found in the ground,
estimation of height of cetonation from shadow grams and the
like."
3. SCAF notes, under present conditions in Japan, the
insecurity of this data, the incompleteness of his control over
7-84
it, the unfairness of penalizing cooperative Japanese scientists,
the unwisdom of drawing attention to the pepers in question by
trying to classify them, and the embarrasement which would result
from requests for this dats from FEC member countries.
8
4. SCAP expresses a desire to "maximize freedom of the
scientific press to extent possible" and asks instruetions on
publication policy "which would be in best interests of the
United States."
5. JCS is consulting the Atomic Energy Commission, and in
the sbsence of objections, plans to authorize SCAP to release
these pupers for publication. JCS does not propose, however, to
amend the outstanding directive in any way.
6. State Department action is not required unless political
considerations require comment to JCs on the desirability of
releasing or withholding publication of these papers, or comment
on the possible timing of the release if approved.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRET
-2-
7. Any comment received fros the offices eddressed
will be communicated, (after coordination if nesessary) to the
Army ArdJCS.
godsr.
O:JFRJr10e
SECRET
1989

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
is assigned to
APR 12 1945
WASHINGTON, D. C.
2E51
8 ADD 1949
FE
DER SEOPSTARY'S OFFICE
2AW
The Honorable
APR131949
2
The Secretary of State
Dear Mr. Secretary:
A series of conferences were held with representatives of the
Atomic Energy Commission, State Department and the Department of
the Army in view of no Atomic Energy Commission policy decision
on the shipment of radioisotopes to the occupied areas and to
determine if there was any conflict with the provisions of FEC
document 024/8, dated 7 February 1947, on atomic research develop-
ment in Japan. In addition, cables were dispatched to The Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers to determine the use and the
394.646/4-849
justification for such shipments to Japan. As a result of the
conferences, it was agreed that the Department of Army would forward
a letter to State Department in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3 of the Atomic Energy Commission Outline of Procedure
for Handling Foreign Requests for Radioisotopes and that State
Department would comment and transmit this to the Atomic Energy
Commission.
The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers has been queried
on his plans for importation of isotopes into Japan and for his
ability to comply with the Atomic Energy Commission regulations
(see inclosure one). The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
has informed that:
a. The SCAP New York Foreign Trade Office, 292 Madison
Avenue, New York City, is the agent in the United States who will
handle matters connected with shipment of radioactive materials
to Japan.
b. That this representative is authorized to certify on
behalf of occupied Japan to the accuracy of the information set forth
in each request for radioisotopes.
c. That the authorities in Japan understand that there
are special health and safety hazards arising out of the possession,
handling or use of radioisotopes, and that such hazards require
special protective measures.
d. That the authorities in Japan agree that neither the
United States Government nor any United States distributing agent
A/VL
036554

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
shall be responsible for injury or damage caused by or in the
application of any radioisotopes delivered.
e. That qualified SCAP personnel will justify individual
Japanese requests for importation of radiosotopes for research prior
to forwarding a firm order to the United States agency. All imports
will be made through SCAP Headquarters and surveillance over Japanese
research project will be maintained to assure safe effective use.
The Department of the Army does not object to radioisotopes
being furnished to Japan under the conditions outlined above.
Sincerely yours,
a
Incl:
Kenneth C. Royall
Dept of Army cable
Secretary of the Army
WAR 91272, 21 Oct 48

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.83)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RESTRICTED
PRIORITY
PAHAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED. HAIIDLE AS RESTRJCTED CORRESPONDENCE
PER PARAS 511 anC 60a 14) AR 380-5
LNDER SBORETARY'S OFFICE
Civil Arraims Civision
Lt. Co). Scho: ner (Mr
Auchinc: as -St te) 72775
APR 1 3 1949
2
 Octoter 19u
3:
A
Ec Le et olorue and  e last cf
radiolsot  arternatl  latrlbatior 1 pubj.
  me thes sor loe o ther  4 catalogues
erediclsotores'e interdistritution
re ab:
3 aan fwded o Euonee and nfis Seotier
 srergy Comnimoion urtherworme that they
IrforneI dcuiytes on sopn  radjoective
c shop oisetupied
toton forralised ci these s were not
ohe.  et s of preparatior watere vr ta og and
 omulati ststesnt  uns of radiciac
tpe
Inle Inolusie epan in n stettubion
PrOgY
poroi  staten
enthal a it cdre
 th Sow of Stte
. 47 mle e rollowbeat. The
Co ison 1 o? sh opinion
 e t me of radi
jsc
 invoived ir the quar e under the
us o eserihes wil no tr rse te abo
posearch n other coun  ace ot vo the
E
het radtotd cepes ere sto vhl ch cen conertb-
ny nations sen seienti.
sacapeh progrant.
i
bnerefore, the Atomie morry Commission con-
he radioactt ve lsetooe  tist e wider the
dietributios progcam
tetools wh
CH 0F 9127
(Oct 18)
REETREOTED
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN
10—63786-1

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF MESSAGE CENTER
OUTGOING CLASSIFIED MESSAGE
RESTRICTED
PRIORITY
Nr: WAR 91272
Page 2
are nct directly related to atomio reseerch or
develc onenr'
In view of thia techn definition, State Dept and
Army of opinion distribution in Japan of isotopes
l1sted in catalog 1s not in conflict provisions FEC
Document 024/8, dtd 7 Feb 47.
3. Col Allen, ESS/SPU, SCAP Hq, informed Dept Army that
1mportation of subj isotopes is contemplated in near future.
If so, request full justificstion of use intended and comment
on ability to comply with outline of procedure for handling
foreign requests (see page 14 of reference above). Be ieved
here that Natl Research Council can be approaohed by SCA? to
act as US Agent
ORIGINATOR:
CAD
DISTRIBUTION: CAD(STATE), OUS, PO,
CM OUT 91272
(0ct 48)
DTG 2122302
hbt
RESTRICTED
COPY NO.
THE MAKING OF AN EXACT COPY OF THIS MESSAGE IS FORBIDDEN
10-68780-1

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.85)
RESTRICTED
Gotober 12, 2948
3. A. Wemdel
Cleared with r. all, Ane
U:CAWendel :mrs :rkr
CC:
AB0

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.96)
Retrunt
RESTP
Mae
UNITED STATES
ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION
Rin :5114
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
IN REPLY REFER TO:
71 S
September 29, 1948
LEMORANDUM to
Kr. R. Gordon Arneson
Department of State
SUBJECT: Distribution of Radioisotopes to Japan.
This mekes reference to your memorandum of July 1 and
our telephone conversation on September 23, 1948. You requested
Commission comments on FEC O24/8 in connection with the prohi-
bitions for atomic research in Japan es these prohibitions
might relete to the Commission's present foreign distribution
program.
The Atomic Energy Commission cannot comment on the
legal interpretetions of the pertinent paragraphs in the
above mentioned document, nor can the Commission make comment
on the intent of the prohibitions. It may be helpful, however,
to refer your specific questions to our general statement on
our foreign distribution program of August 27, 1947.
Mr. Lilienthal in e letter eddressed to the Secretary
of State on August 27, 1947 made the following statement: "The
Commission is of the opinion thet the type of radioisotopes
involved, in the quantities and under the conditions presoribed,
will not contribute to atomic energy research in other countries
except to the extent that redioisotopes ere tools which can con-
tribute to any nation's general scientific research program."
In general, therefore, the Atomic Energy Commission
considers the radioactive isotopes availeble under the foreign
distribution program es research tools which are not directly
related to atomic energy research or development.
John a. Hall
John A. Hall
OCT 8 1948
4

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
October 3, 1949
CONFIDENTIAL
ONIENTAE
Deotoper
MEMORANDUM FOR
Mr. John A. Hall
Atomic Energy Commission
There is enclosed a copy of an Army telegram requesting that
a decision be expedited with reference to the question of distribu-
tion in Japan of radioactive isotopes procured from the United States
Atomic Energy Commission through the auspices of SCAP. This matter
was made the subject of a letter from this office to Mr. Wilson
dated April 22, in which it was stated that upon the receipt of
the Commission's approval, the Department would be pleased to reg-
ister the SCAP Foreign Trade Office as the agent for handling the
procurement of radioactive isotopes for Japan.
It is noted in the attached telegram that reference is made
to the fact that applications for radicactive isotopes required
by Japanese industry have been completed. It may be necessary
to call to the attention of SCAP that distribution of radioactive
isotopes under the present program is limited to medical, thera-
peutic and research purposes.
In view  the length of time elapsed since the Comission's
views were requested in the letter of April 22, it would be greatly
appreciated if a decision could be reached in the near future in
order that the Department may make final reply to a pending inquiry
originally received from the Secretary of the Army.
R. Gordon Arneson
Enclosure:
Copy of Army Telegram
No. C 52616, 20 Sop 49,
CINCFE Tokyo (CM IN 6910)
RSA
U/A:DHMcKillop:eag
Heathe
FIDENTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
UlA
CLASSIFIED
CONFIDENTIAL
INCOMING
SS
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Mck
CONFIDENTIAL
PRRAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To : Dept of Army for OAS
Nr : C 52616
20 Sep 49
Importation of radio isotopes into Japan 1s subject.
Reurltr to SCAP, AGAO-S O00.9 atomic energy (1Oth August
49) OAS, 16th August 49, subject same as above. SCAP has
atomic energy commission application forms for radio isotopes
required by Japanese industry and researchers completed and
ready to forward. Request information on policy decision
on shipment radio 1sotopes to Japan be expedited. If deci-
sion still pending, request your recommendations on for-
warding applications to SCAP Foreign Trade New York office
for initiative of procurement action at this time.
CHOER SECHETARY'S OFRICE
SEP221949
2
ACTION: OUSRO
INFO : ID, LOGD, OUS, OUSBM, OUSFE, SIG
1013-
CM IN 6910
(20 Sep 49) DTG: 201023Z
dwn/D
to
A dc) Ha"
SEP 201949
26
CONFIDENTIAL
DA SCO FORM
22-3
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949--O-B30430

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
April 22, 1949
Dear Mr. Wilson:
There is enclosed a copy of a letter received from the Secretary
of the Army outlining a procedure for the sale of radioisotopes to
Japan through the Foreign Trade Office in New York of the Supreme
Commander of the Allied Forces (SCAP).
Since it is felt that this procedure affords sufficient assurances
that isotopes shipped to Japan in accordance therewith will not be used
for research or development in atomic energy, the Department of State
1s of the opinion that the proposed distribution does not violate the
provisions of the Far Eastern Commission's Document 024/8 of February 7,
1947, specifically prohibiting atomic research and development in Japan.
Accordingly, there would appear to be no grounds for objection to the
distribution on the part of the other members of the Far Eastern Commission.
Furthermore, the sale of radioisotopes to the Japanese under the conditions
described by the Supreme Commander is in accord with the general principle
of American foreign policy to extend such appropriate humanitarian assistance
to occupied countries as will contribute toward the establishment in these
countries of stable, democratic governments.
In view of the foregoing, the Department of State accepts the enclosed
letter from the Secretary of the Army as an application for the admission
of Japan into the radioisotope program and approves the distribution pro-
cedure outlined therein. If the Atomic Energy Commission conours, the
Department will be pleased to register the SCAP Foreign Trade Office in
Mr. Carroll L. ilson,
General Manager,
Atomic Energy Commission,
Washington 25, D. C.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
New York as the agent for handling the procurement of radioisotopes fer
use in Japan and to inform the Secretary of the Army in the premises.
Receipt of the views of the Atomic Energy Commission in this matter
will be appreciated.
Sincerely yours,
R. Gordon Arneson
Special Assistant to the Under Secretary
Enclosure:
Letter from the Secretary of the Army.
RGA
U:DHMcKillop:gw,b
Diotl

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
April 22, 1949
Dear Bill:
I would like informally to acknowledge through your office the
receipt in the Department of State of a letter dated April 8, 1949
from Socretary Royall concerning the proposed distribution of radio-
isotopes in Japan under the auspices of SCAP. A copy of this letter
has been transmitted to AEC together with the Department's comment
scommending approval of the procedure in accordance with which
adioisotopes would be made availatle to the Japanese. This action
was reported verbally to the Military Establishment in a telephone
conversation between my office and Major Brickett.
As soon as Arc's decision in the matter is received, the
Department will formally reply to Secretary Royall's letter.
Sincerely yours,
R. Gordon Arneson
Special Assistant tc the Under Secretary
Mr. Villiam Vobster,
Deputy to the Secretary of Defense,
3E980 The Pontagon.
R40
U:mxillb
Dutte
