894.4061 Social Matters., Amusements. Sports. Recreation. Where A Group Of Amusements Occur In A Subdivision The Name Of The Particular Subject Will Be Placed After The Case Number., Japan, Public Entertainment. Concerts. Panoramas. Motion (File 1408)
ID: 894.4061-1408   Pages: 268   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.4061-social-matters-amusements-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
JOTON PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMER
28 WEST 44TH STREET
New York CiTY
JFPARTMENT OF CTAT
EDERICK L HERRON
December 14, 1939
JAN 1 8 1940
1959 DEC 15 AM 11 29
FOREIGN MANAGER
Division of
ASION OP
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
COMMUNICTIONS
894.4061mustion
To The Secretary of State,
Honorable Cordell Hull,
ADEC161939
Department of State,
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
January
In view of the present restrictions imposed on the
representatives of our American motion picture companies
894.4O61 MOTION PICTURES/32
in Japan who distribute our pictures there and with the
announcement of the enforcement of a new motion picture
law there January 1, 1940, the American motion picture
industry as represented by this Association feels that
the time has arrived to request the kind offices of your
Department to file an official protest through the United
States Ambassador in Japan with the Japanese Government
against such restrictions as placed on our industry.
The representatives of American motion picture com-
panies in Japan under a group calling themselves The
American Motion Picture Association of Japan have talked
this matter over personally with the American Ambassador
following which conversation they filed a report with the
necessary data pertaining to the trouble which dates back
to the time of Japan's invasion of China.
The attached documents we feel explains the matter
very fully and relate to the agreements with the supposed
representatives of the Japanese Government which have not
been fulfilled on their part.
If appropriate instructions could be forwarded to the
American Ambassador in Japan regarding the protection of
the American motion picture interests there it would be
FILID
very greatly appreciated by the whole of the motion picture
industry.
25
With very best wishes, I am,
Most sincerely,

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
16th November 1939.
H. E. the Hon. Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador to Japan,
American Embassy,
Tokyo.
Your Excellency:
The American Motion Picture Association, expressing their
sincere appreciation for the interview granted on the 13th inst.,
beg to submit below a resume of our present problems concerning
the importation of American pictures into Japan and the remittance
of funds to our parent companies in New York. In dealing with our
problems we believe it would be advisable to segregate them under
three headings.
1.
PRESENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FINANCE MINISTRY
AND THE AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION.
Since the outbreak of the so-called China Incident, the Ameri-
can Motion Picture Companies in formulating plans to continue busi-
ness during the emergency period without embarrassing the financial
and economic policies of the Government, came to an agreement with
the Finance Ministry. The original approach in connection with this
agreement was made by a certain Mr. Hisaji Kubo, a personal friend
of the then Finance Minister, Mr. O. Kaya. Mr. Kubo having obtained
letters of introduction from the Foreign Ministry in Japan, and from
the late Ambassador to the United States, Mr. Saito, presented him-
self as an Official Representative of the Japanese Authorities to the
foreign managers of the American Distributing Companies in New York,
with certain proposals designed to enable the Japanese Government
and the American Motion Picture Distributors to come to mutually
acceptable terms for the conduct of future operations in Japan. The
entire matter was referred by our Head Offices to the American Motion
Picture Association in Japan. Several conferences took place between
Mr. H. Kubo and the American Motion Picture Assn., in Tokyo, as a
result of which this Association agreed to pay Mr. Kubo Y30,O00 as a
gratuity if, and when, the agreement with the Finance Ministry would
be completed. At the same time the American Motion Picture Assn.
held several conferences with various members of the Finance Ministry.
After protracted negotiations an Agreement was finally made with the
Finance Ministry and under date of August 10, 1938, the American
Motion Picture Assn. received an Official Document from the Finance
Ministry signed by Mr. Kojiro Nakamura, Head of the Exchange Bureau.
This document outlines in detail the entire arrangement, under which
the members of the American Motion Picture Assn. representing the
eight major Motion Picture Distributing Companies of the United States
would be permitted to import a limited number of pictures amounting
to $30,0o0 print cost, figured at the rate of 1: cents per foot, and
to remit to their respective Head Offices in New York accumulated fun
amounting to the sum of Y3,000,000 under a deferred payment plan of
three years without interest.
The entire arrangement should have been completed by December
3lst 1938 as stipulated in the agreement.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The agreement was worded in such a way as to give the Finance
Ministry an opportunity to deviate from the terms of same. However,
despite considerable delay, the Finance Ministry have issued permits
covering the remittances of the entire amount of Y3,000,00 as specifie
in the agreement and also permits for the importation of pictures up t
the amount of U. S. $20,O00. The last import permits were issued by
the Finance Ministry only in September this year, or exactly nine
months after the expiration date of the agreement.
On the strength of the agreement the members of the American
Motion Picture Association have ordered a considerable supply of pic-
tures which have subsequently arrived at Yokohama and have been kept
there in readiness for immediate importation on receipt of permits.
The members have also obligated themselves to considerable expense in
preparing for the resumption of their normal business activities in
Japan.
On repeated advice from the Finance Ministry the American Motion
Picture Association paid Mr. Aisaji Kubo, who presented himself as
the promoter of the entire plan to the Ministry, the sum of Y30,000
as a gratuity for his efforts in bringing about the consummation of
the entire arrangement.
Since the restrictions on imports of pictures and export of
capital were put into effect by the Japansese Government, a great
number of Japanese Films have been, and are still being exported to
the United States. Home Ministry reports give the following statistic
covering export censor permits issued for Japansese films for shipment
to the U.S. (Sept. 1937 has been taken as the time at which the ban
on imports of American films into Japan was enforced):
Sept. - Dec. 1937 84 Feature Films
630,700 feet
Shorts and news
230,800
Total
835,500 ft.
Jan. - Dec. 1938 210 Feature Films
1,328,800 feet
Shorts and news
525.500
Total
..1,854,300 ft.
Jan. - June 1939
110 Feature Films
651,100 feet
Shorts and news
319,300
Total
970,400 ft.
Grand Total since import ban
3.660.200 ft.
(404 Feature plus shorts and news)
These figures show that Japan exports more film to Americar.
than anywhere else, and also that Japanese footage imported into
America is greater than that from any other single country. Besides
all these are being admitted into the U.S. without any difficulty

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
whatever, neither is there any restriction as regards payment for
them. As compared with the above export figures, the eight American
companies of this Association have, since the ban was enforced and
up to date, received permits for approximately $20,000 print cost
covering 1,330,000feet of imports.
The American Motion Picture Association exhausted every possible
avenue of approach to speed up the fulfillment of the said agreement
At present no indication is evident as to the time of issuance of
import permits covering the balance of U. S. $10,O00 print cost.
While we fully realize that the actual legality of the document
received from the Finance Ministry is debatable, the fact that the
Finance Ministry have carried out the agreement to its present extent
and also that there was an implied acknowledgement of the agreement in
their request to pay Mr. Kubo the gratuity mentioned above, would seem
to indicate that the Authorities accepted the agreement in good faith:
Furthermore, the American Motion Picture Assn. have been repeatedly
told by the Finance Ministry that as long as this agreement is not
completed, no other method of importation or remittances could be ex-
pected.
The members of this Association earnestly solicit Your
Excellency's assistance in presenting their case to the proper
authorities. We might mention that the Foreign Office is fully
cognisont of all these negotiations and in fact have on a number of
occasions expressed their interest in it and desire to see the matter
satisfactorily completed.
2.
THE NEW MOTION PICTURE LAW.
At the end of September the Home inistry officially notified the
American Motion Picture Association of the provisions of the new
Motion Picture Law. The Law will be enforced from January 1st 1940.
Under a provision of this aw, the members of the American Motion Pic
ture Association will be placed on a quota basis for the distribution
of pictures in Japan. All indications are that the quota for each
individual distributor will be extremely small as compared to the
average number of pictures imported and distributed by the members of
this Association heretofore.
The Home Ministry, however, in discussing the application of the
New Motion Picture Law with various members of the Industry have indi
cated that they intend to take into consideration the diplomatic and
economic relationship existing between Japan and various other
countries. Of the total number of foreign pictures distributed in
Japan in normal times, the American pictures occupied the major
portion. Even since the restrictions were put into effect, the
American Motion Picture Distributors represented by this Association,
have been importing and releasing approximately 80% of the total
foreign product.
As the Home Ministry are still undecided as to the quota
allocation for each individual distributor, this Association believes

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
that it might be timely to make a representation through diplomatic
channels to impress upon the Authorities the difference in the stand-.
ing of the American Distributors as compared to the independent dis-
tributors dealing in pictures from other countries. The members of
this Association have already made their representation to the Home
Ministry, however, no tangible results were obtained. Simultaneously
with our approach to Your Excellency, the American Motion Picture Assn.
is making a similar report to the Hays Organization with a request to
bring our case to the attention of the State Department and to make a
suitable petition to embody the Motion Picture Industry into any
possible negotiations between the United States and Japan, so that we
may be permitted to continue business on a reasonable scale.
3.
FROZEN FUNDS.
Since February 1939 - the last remittance under our present
agreement with the Finance Ministry - no remittances whatsoever have
been allowed. We estimate that at present funds accumulated in Japan
by the members of this Association amount to Y4,O00,000. Assuming that
the present agreement is entirely completed, the attitude of the
Finance Ministry leads us to believe that the possibility of further
remittances is remote. The continued accumulation of funds will be-
come an intolerable situation for our Head Offices.
We are, therefore, particularly anxious to arrive at some
arrangement with the Finance Ministry for future remittances and we
trust that this question may be included in the representations that
we petition Your Excellency to make. We have also included this pro-
blem in our letter to the Hays Organization, with a request to embody
same into their representation to the State Department.
We are, Your Excellency,
Yours very truly,
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN
(sd) R. D. Spierman
Hon. Secretary.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
May 26th, 1939
O. Kaya, Esq.,
Tokyo.
Sir:
We wish to take this opporturity of reiterating our
gratitude for your kind efforts on our behalf with the
Minister of Finance, which resulted in the conclusion of an
agreement between the Finance Ministry of the Imperial Japanese
Government and the American Motion Picture Association of Japan.
This, as you will undoubtedly recall, was the outcome of the
acceptance by the Director of the Exchange Control Bureau of
the proposals offered by the said Association.
According to this agreement, the Finance Ministry undertook to
permit the eight American motion picture distributors in Tokyo,
who comprise the American Motion Picture Association of Japan,
the importation of motion picture prints to the extent of
$30,O00, and to remit to their respective Head Offices in New
York accumulated funds aggregating ¥3,000,000 in total under a
deferred payment plan of three years without interest. The
entire arrangement should have been completed by December 3lst
1938 as stipuleted in the agreement.
The provisions regarding the remittances of funds have been
completed. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case with
regard to the undertakings covering the importation of pictures.
Between the time the agreement was signed on August 10th 1938
and this date, only $15,000 worth of pictures, or one-half of
the amount, has been permitted us for import:tion.
In spite of the repeated visits to the Exchange Control Bureau of the
Finance Ministry, we have until now been unable to obtain any
indication as to the possible dates on which the permits for the
balance of the pictures will be granted. This Association was
informed by the Exchange Control Bureau that they would be in a
position to grant us at least a portion of the balance of the
permits after the new Motion Picture Law had been passed by the
Diet.
Since then, representatives of this Association have called many
times at the Exchange Control Bureau of the Finance Ministry
with a view to finding out the Dates on which we may expect permits
for the balance, but were advised that no definite promises could
be made as to the dates on which permits for the balance of the
pictures will be granted.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Our parent companies in New York and our Hollywood executives
have accepted the entire agreement in good faith and expected the
same to be carried out in accordance with its provisions and on
the dates specified. We, the American Motion Picture Association
of Japan, have been requested by our parent companies to give them
reasons and explanations for the continual delay, and to approach
the Japanese Government with a view to clarifying its intentions
regarding the fulfillment of this agreement, so that they, our New
York Head Offices, and Hollywood producers may decide on certain
policies of action.
The American Motion Picture Association of Japan has already
addressed letters to "Variety" and other leading motion picture
trade papers in America with a view to forestalling any reports in
connection with the above mentioned agreement that might create an
undesirable impression or be interpreted as a reflection on the
word of the Japanese Government. These letters have been published
with very favorable comment. A copy is attached hereto. We are
particularly desirous of maintaining such a position that we will
be able to continue to exert our utmost efforts towards checking
any anti-Japanese tendencies in American motion picture circles,
which so far have been negligible.
The members of the American Motion Picture Association of Japan
represent the eight biggest motion picture companies in the united
States which have been accleimed as the leading factors in the
motion picture industry throughout the world. The American
motion picture industry represents a very powerful force of
public opinion in the United States as weli as throughout the
world, having at its command tremendous resources, and producing
pictures not only for entertainment but also for cultural purposes
as well as for the purpose of dissemination of news through the
medium of newsreel pictures.
As the present position taken by the Ministry of Finance
indicates unwiliingness on the part of the Japanese Government
to carry out the agreement in its original form, this Association
fears that this attitude may be interpreted by our respective
Head Offices as a desire of the Japanese Government to abrogate
the agreement. This matter may not be of great importance from
the Japanese Government's viewpoint, but Japan's claim to fair
play and justice would seem to infer the strict fulfillment of any
agreement undertaken. In view of this, the stand now being taken
by the Exchange Control Bureau of the Finance Ministry cannot be
regarded as anything but unfair. Such an attitude on the part of
the Japanese Government may result in creating a bad impression
on the American motion picture producers and the American public
as a whole, which will naturally affect the bonds of friendship
existing between the two countries.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Because of the delay and the seriousness of the situation
as it affects our business, several of our Head Offices
have dispatched their special representatives to Japan to
investigate this matter. These representatives have
expressed considerable dissatisfaction at the slow
progress of the execution of the entire arrangement.
Several members of this Association have been requested
by their respective Head Offices to return to the
United States for the purpose of reporting and explaining
the true status of the motion picture industry in Japan
in general, the reasons for the dlay in the granting of
the permits for the balance of the pictures as stipulated
in the aforesaid agreement, to make reports relative to
new legislation affecting our industry and finally to
present the opinions and submit the recommendations of
this Association as to the future prospects for American
motion picture activity in Japan.
The American Motion Picture Association in Japan has done
everything in its power up to the present time to prevent
the dissemination of unfavorable propaganda through the
medium of motion pictures, always desiring and anxious to
maintain the traditional friendly relations existing between
Japan and the United States. It is because of this desire
that we earnestly beg you tolend us your good offices and
influence towards the speedy fulfillment of the above
mentioned agreement by the Ministry of Finance.
Respectfully yours,
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASSIN OF JAPAN
Chairman

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
10th August, 1939.
S. Ikeda, Esq.,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Approximately two months ago, the AMPA addressed a petition to
Your Excellency. We believe that it received your kind attention,
for shortly thereafter, the Finance Ministry issued us import
permits to the amount of $2,05l. However, we are sure you will
realize that, lacking any indication of subsequent permits, this
quantity fillis but an extremely small part of the requirements of
the market for the immediate future. Under the circumstances, we
feel constrained to approach Your Excellency again for further
consideration of our agreement with the Finance Ministry signed
in August 1938.
Despite the above-mentioned agreement, whereby film imports to
the extent of $30,o00 were to be permitted by the end of last
year, we have so far received permits only amounting to approximately
$17,500. In the last seven months, permits have been issued to us
only once -- this was in June and, as stated above, amounted to
only $2,051.
Realising the situation and the wishes of the government, this
Association earlier in the year proposed to the Finance Ministry
a postponement of several months beyond the deadline specified in
the agreement, and requested an approximate schedule of imports
over the extended period. While the Ministry of Finance was at
that time favorably inclined towards some such amicable arrangement,
actually nothirg was effected and the matter simply allowed to
lapse indefinitely.
As it is already over seven months since the agreement should have
been fulfilled and just a year since the agreement was signed, our
Head Offices are making constant inquiries of us, and are showing
unmistakable signs of impatience and concern over the status of
our agreement with the Japanese Government. This Association is
placed in the extremely embarrassing position of trying to overcome
any erroneous or unfavorable impressions while at the same time

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
being unable to offer any explanations as to the continued
delay.
Another point of prime importance is the question of substitute
permits for films which are banned by the authorities. Because
of the recent tightening of censorship requirements, several
films have been rejected. While we are perfectly willing to
abide by any such rulings which the government may think to be
to the best advantage of the nation, on the other hand, frankly,
we fail to understand the Finarce Ministry's objection to allowing
a substitute picture for each one as rejected. Although assurances
in this regard were given us verbally in early discussions, we are
at present encountering great difficulty with our applications for
such replacements.
We wish also to take this opportunity of mentioning that import
permits have not always been issued proportionately to the
individual quotas of the separate companies. In other words, there
is considerable divergence among the companies in the proportion
of permits granted to total allotment. The highest company has
received 62% of their import quota, while the lowest is 53%. We
are very anxious to have all companies treated as equitably as
possible in this matter of allocation.
A great number of Japanese films are being exported to the United
States. Home Ministry reports give the following statistics
covering export censor permits issued for Japanese films for
shipment to the U.S. (Sept.1937 has been taken as the time at
which the ban on imports of American films into Japan was enforced):
Sept. - Dec. 1977
84 Feature films
631,700 feet
Short subjects & news
203.800
Total .....
835,500 ft.
Jan. - Dec. 1938
210 Feature films
1,328,800 feet
Shorts & news
525,500
Total.
1,854,300 ft.
Jan. - June 1939
110 Feature films
651,100 feet
Shorts & news
319,300
Total.
970,400 ft.
Grand Total since import ban
3,660,200 ft.
(404 Feature films plus shorts & news)

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
These figures show that Japan exports more film to America
than anywhere else, and also that Japanese footage imported
into America is greater than that from any other single
country. Besides, all these are being admitted into the U. S.
without any difficulty whatever, neither is there any restric-
tion as regards payment for them.
As compared with the above export figures, the eight American
companies of this Association have, in the same period since
the ban was enforced, received permits for approximately $17,500
covering 1,835,000 feet of imports. During this year, we have
received only one set of permits -- this was in June and amounted
to only $2,051, or 136,700 feet.
Notwithstanding the extremely severe conditions with which
American films are burdened in Japan, there have as yet been no
countervailing measures or reprisals in America. Although we
have received suggestions (which are perfectly natural) to
appeal to the American Embassy, we have adopted the stand that
this is a purely business transaction between the Finance Ministry
and ourselves, and we have conseguently followed the policy of
confining it to these limits. We feel that this is the more
desirable method for both parties, as we see no reason why the
entire agreement cannot be fulfilled in an amicable and mutually
satisfactory manner without involving diplomatic representations.
In the case of the agreement in question, as the remaining
balence of $12,500 is not a sum of any great magnitude we most
earnestly request that, in the interests of goodwill and with
sincerity of purpose, these import permits be issued, and that
we, the American companies operating here, be accorded treatment
more in line with that given to Japunese films in America.
Respectfully yours,
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASS N OF JAPAN
Chairnan

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
aittance Division, Confidential No. 1l.
August 10, 1938
Mr. Michael M. Bergher,
Representative of American Motion Picture
Association of Japan.
We hereby inform you that it is expected that the matters re-
lating to the importation of American motion pictures under credit,
which have been applied for under date of May 28, 1938, through Mr.
Hisaji Kubo will be approved in accordance with the following terms
and conditions:
1.
To be allowed to import pictures on or before the last day of
1938, up to the maximum of $30,000 in print costs (this amount
may be changed by mutual arrangement according to changes in
the foreign trade of this country in the future); the minimum
price for one foot shall be l cents.
2.
In connection with the time and quantity of importation of said
pictures, an importation plan for each month shall be filed on
or before the last day of the preceding month and the approval
of the competent authorities shall be obtained therefor.
3.
In respect of the importation of said pictures, each company
shall be required to obtain permission under Article 1 or
Article 4 - (2) of Department of Finance Order No. 1 of 1937
at each time of importation.
4.
Importation of pictures of such kind as are not suitable to
the present extraordinary situation of this country will not
be allowed.
5.
The royalty obtained from the exhibition of the imported pic-
tures may be remitted to America through the Yokohama Specie
Bank up to Y3,000,000 on or before the last day of 1938 (in-
clusive of unremitted royalty of approximate Y2,000,000 accumu-
lated during the period from September, 1937 to May 15, 1938)
6.
In respect to the time and number of installments of re-
mittances of said royalties and the amount of each installment,
a remittance plan shall previously be filed and the approval
of the competent authorities shall be obtained therefor.
7.
In respect to the remittance of said royalties, each company
shall be required to obtain permission under Article 3 of
Department of Finance Order No. 7 of 1933 at each time of re-
mittance.
8.
The amount remitted with the aforesaid permission shall be
converted into American currency and shall be deposited with
the San Francisco Branch of the Yokohama Specie Bank without
interest and shall not be paid to the payee before full three
years have elapsed after the completion of a remittance.
9.
If the amount of royalty received does not reach Y3,O00,O00 at
the end of this year, permission for remittance shall be limited
in the amount thus received.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
10.
In regard to royalties received, each company shall immediately
report to the competent authorities the amount as on may 13 and
July 31, 1938, and shall also report the amount on the last day
of each month including August, l938, and for months thereafter
on or before the loth of the following month. Provided that
as to bank deposits a certification of such bank shall be
attached.
11.
If any of the applicant companies should violate the laws and
regulations of the foreign exchange control or any of the fore-
going paragraphs or otherwise act impropertly, an approval in
question shali be cancelled.
12.
The matters relating to the reshipment of imported pictures, the
amount borne by the principal office and the supply of raw films
shall have nothing to do with an approval in question.
Kojiro Nakamura
Head of Exchange Bureau
of the Department of
Finance (Office Seal)

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
(Document annexed to communication)
(from Department of Finance
Outline of Memorandum produced bym
American Motion Picture Association of
Japan (consisting of eight companies)
1。
Plan for remittance and importation of films.
(a) We wish to obtain permission for the remittance of
Y3,O00,000 (including unremitted royalties of approxi-
mately Y2,000,000 which were accumulated from September
of last year to this date) before the end of this year.
provided that said amount will be paid to Yokohema
Specie Bank which Bank will convert the amounts into
American dollars and transmit them to its New York
Branch, and they will be paid over to the addressees
by the New York Branch of the Yokabama Specie Bank
after three years. No interest shall accrue.
(b) We wish to obtain permission for the importation of pic-
tures in the maximum of $30,000 in print costs before
the end of this year. For this $30,0o0 we wish to ob-
tain permission for immediate remittance or payment by
draft on each arrival of pictures.
2.
The application for permission for the above shall be made
in the joint names of the eight companies and the Department
of Finance shall give one single permit complying with the
foregoing conditions.
3.
The allotment of Y3,000,000 and $30,000 shal1 be made by the
relative eight companies and the remittance and importation
shall be made by each company in accordance with the per-
mission granted in the joint names and within the limits
granted thereby.
4.
The invoice price (print cost) of an ordinary picture shall
be ls cents per foot. As to colored pictures, it is necessary
to import several duplicates in addition to the original print,
because no duplicate of colored pictures can be made in Japan.
The print cost for one print to be regarded as the original
print will be included in the $30,000, but the print costs of
duplicates shall be not considered in this figure and each time
separate applications for permission for importation of dupli-
cates will be made and we wish to import such duplicates if
permitted.
Further we request the following:
1.
We wish to obtain permission for the re-shipment of pictures
which were once landed at Yokohama but were not imported and
imported original prints from which duplicates were made in
Japan.
2.
We wish to obtain permission for remittances of amount borne
by principal offices for which permission was granted until
February of this year but no permission granted thereafter.
3.
We wish to have ample supplies of raw film so that we will be
able to make duplicates in Japan.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
QRDINANCE NO. L. 1937
Article 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4, Nos. 1 and 11 of
Binance Department Ordinance No. 7, 1933, no transactions or acts
specified in Article 3 of the sai d Ordinance (including the carry-
ing out of future contracts for foreign exchange entered into priob-
to the enforcement of this Ordinance ) may be performed for effect-
ing settlement necessary to the importation of goods into Japan or
localities in which Japanese currency is legal tender except with
the permission of the Mintster of Finance, except in the following
cases:-
L. For performing transactions or acts the total value of
which for one month does not exceed an equivalent of
Y30,000; (Amended to read Y1,000,00 by Ordinance No. 23
on July 7, 1937). Subsequently revised to Y100.00 in
December 1937.
2.
For selling, or paying, or buying exchange in order to
pay, exchange under letters of credit acquired with
permission in accordance with the provisions of Article
2 or acquired without permission in accordance with the
proviso of the said Article;
3.
When necessary for settling documentary bills for goods
the importation or shipment from abroad of which has been
completed when this Ordinance came into force.
4.
For carrying out future contracts for foreign exchange
entered into prior to the enforcement of this Ordinance
in order to settle documentary bills for goods shipped
from abroad within one week after the enforcement of this
Ordinance.

=== Page 16 === (confidence 1.00)
Article 4-(2) of Finance Department
Ordinance No. 1 of 1937
Article 4-(2) except with permission of the Minister of
Finance no person may import goods into this country without a draft
for their value in whole or in part, nor import goods into this
country without a draft in yen for their value in whole or in part,
which draft is addressed to this country, from a territory where
Japanese currency is effective, except in the following cases;
(1) Importation of goods relating to transactions or acts
necessary for the settlement of the price under Articles
1 - 4, for which permission was obtained.
(2) Importation of goods relating to transactions or acts
necessary for the settlement of the price under the pro-
visos of Articles 1 or 2, for which no permission is re-
quired.
(3) Importation of goods as samples or gifts or for the pur-
pose of exhibiting at an exposition.
(4) Importation of returned goods which were exported from
this country.
(5) Importation of goods for repairing.
(6) Importation of fish caught and loaded on a vessel which
sailed from this country.
(7) Importation of personal articles or house-removing
articles.
(8) Importation of goods necessary for governmental authorities.
(9) Except the foregoing cases, to import goods the value of
which do not exceed Yl,Ooo per month.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 1.00)
ARTICLE 3 of Department of Finance
Order of 1933
Article 3.
Except with the permission of the Minister of Finance the follow-
ing transactions or acts may not be performed;-
1. The purchase, with Japanese currency as a consideration,
of foreign currency, foreign exchange or Yen exchange
drawn on localities where Japanese currency is legal
tender;
2.
The sale of foreign exchange, with Japanese currency as
a consideration, to parties other than foreign exchange
banks or with the object of setting off the same against
exchange bought;
The sale and purchase, with foreign currency as a con-
sideration, of Yen exchange which is foreign exchange;
4.
The transaction or taking of (Japanese) currency, foreign
currency, cheques, bills, or notes or remittances to
foreign countries by any method not provided for by
Article 1 and other Numbers of this Article;
5.
Payments in localities where this Ordinance is in force
under instructions given abroad.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. S. Ikeda
October 1st 1938.
Your Excellency:
We beg to respectfully submit to your kind attention the follow-
ing brief resume of the status of the American Motion Picture Industry
in Japan.
Last year when the Government decided to prohibit the importation
of foreign motion pictures because of the China Incident, the American
Motion Picture Association of Japan, in formulating plans to continue
business during the emergency period without embarrassing in any way
the financial and economic situation of the Government, came to an
agreement with various members of the Finance Ministry after protracted
discussions. By this agreement, the members of the American Motion Pic
ture Association, representing the eight major companies of the United
States, were permitted to import a limited number of pictures,
aggregating in total to the sum of Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,o00)
print cost and to remit to their respective head offices in New York
the royalties earned on these pictures and funds accumulated up to the
time permits were granted for remittances under this agreement, a total
sum amounting to Three Million Yen (Y3,O00,O00) under a deferred pay-
ment plan of three years without interest.
The respective head offices in New York of the members of the
American Motion Picture Association of Japan accepted this plan after
which the agreement was definitely made with the Finance Ministry and
under date of August lOth, 1938, the American Motion Picture Assoc-
iation received an official document from the Finance Ministry, signed
by Mr. Kojiro Nakamura, head of the Exchange Bureau. This agreement
outlined in detail the entire arrangement.
Upon receipt of this agreement, the American Motion Picture
Association of Japan telegraphed to the respective head offices in New
York that the agreement was duly and officially consummated and would
go into effect within a few weeks after that date as we were officially
advised.
On the strength of this advice of the Finance Ministry, all
members of the American Motion Picture Association of Japan ordered a
considerable supply of pictures which have subsequently arrived at
Yokohama and the members have also obligated themselves to considerable
expense in preparation for the resumption of their business activities
in Japan.
On September 26th, 1938, permits were granted by the Finance
Ministry to remit the first installment of the Three Million Yen
(Y3,000,O00) amounting to Yen Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand (Y750,00d
in total for all members of the Association which remittances have al-
ready been made. However, no permits for the importation of pictures
have been received by the American Motion Picture Association, with the
exception of a negligible number of cartoons.
On September 30th, the committee of the Association was officially
notified by the head of the Remittance Department and head of Section 1

=== Page 19 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
of the Import Department that because of pressure brought by a
group of small independent Japanese distributing companies which re-
quest that no importation of pictures should be permitted to the
members of the American Motion Picture Association until after some
arrangement had also been consummated with that group and that it
would be necessary to hold up indefinitely the permits for the im-
portation of pictures for the members of the American Motion Picture
Association until such time as the matter would be settled to the
satisfaction of the above-mentioned Japanese distributors. The
American Motion Picture Association of Japan believes that it is un-
fair and unjust to regard them in the same light as the group of
Japanese importers mentioned above.  The majority of the Japanese
distributors of foreign pictures in Japan who comprise the above-
mentioned group, are newly organized companies, mostly during the
period of emergency and are importing only a negligible quantity of
very inferior product produced by insignificant American and European
producers.
On the other hand, the members of the American Motion Picture
Association of Japan represent the eight biggest motion picture com-
panies in the United States and have been acclaimed as the leading
factors of Motion Picture Industry throughout the world. The members
of the American Motion Picture Association represent a very powerful
force of public opinion in the United States as well as throughout
the world, having at their command tremendous resources and are pro-
ducing pictures not only for amusement but for cultural purposes, as
well as for purposes of dissemination of newsreel pictures.
As the notice given to the committee of the Association by the
Department heads of the Remittance and Import Sections of the Finance
Ministry clearly indicates that te entire agreement between the
American Motion Picture association of Japan and the Finance Ministry
may be nullified, the American Motion Picture Association therefore
appeals to Your Excellency, in the name of justice and fair-play of
our cause which is bound up with the spirit of the promotion of
friendly relations between Japan and the United States. The American
Motion Picture Association feels that it will be a matter of great
regret if the agreement once approved by the Government may be abro-
gated. This may result in misunderstood conception on the part of
the American people, of the true desires of the Japanese Government
and may affect the bonds of friendship now existing.
The American Motion Picture Association desires to bring to Your
Excellency's attention the fact that immediately upon the conclusion
of the agreement, two members of the Association have left for the
United States who were instructed by the Association to recommend and
prevail upon the respective executives of the members of the Assoc-
iation in New York to discontinue the very unfavorable propaganda
which is being disseminated through the activities of newsreels in
the United States.
The Association therefore hopes that Your Excellency will realize
the seriousness of the issue involved, and give this matter your kind
and personal attention.
Most respectfully yours,
American Motion Picture Association of
Chairman
Japan.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
nofficial translation
THE REGULATIONS CONCERNING
THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE
MOTION PICTURE LAW.
Article 1.
Persons who intend to obtain a permit for motion picture
production business under the provisions of Article 2,
Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall file the Applica-
tion for a permit in triplicate, stating therein the
particulars mentioned hereunder to the Home Minister and
the Education Minister through the office of the
prefectural governor competent over the territory where
the principal office of the motion picture production
business concerned exists (in the prefecture of Tokyo,
the Director of the Metropolitan Police Board, same
context following):-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Scope of business;
3. The place where the motion picture studio exists;
4. The structure, installations and equipment of
the motion pict re studio:-
A. Entire plan of the construction (to attach
the drawings);
B. Constriction of the building, installations
and equipments employed for photographing,
sound recording, developing, orinting, projecting
and storing (to attach the drawings);
C. The kinds and number of cameras, recording
and printing machines;
D. Electric installations (to attach drawings).
5. The kinds of motion pict tres to be produced;
6. Quantity of motion picture prints to be produced in a ye
7. Number of employees and their respective kinds of work;
8. The time when the business is to be commenced.
To the Application for a permit of the preceding paragraph
shall the prospectus of industry and the tentative state-
ment of profit and loss account be attached.
When the party intends to alter the particulars of No.2,
No.3, No.4, A and/or B, No.5 or No.8 of Para. 1 hereof,
he shall obtain the permission of the Home Minister and
Education Minister, through the office of the prefectural
governor, submitting the reasons for alteration in accor-
dance with the example of Para.l hereof.
When the particulars of No.l of Para. 1 hereof have been
altered, the notification in duplicate shall be without
delay sent in to the Home Minister and Education Minister
through the office of the prefectural governor according
to the provisions of Para. 1 hereof.
Article 2.
Persons who intend to obtain a permit for the motion
picture distribution as provided fer in Article 2, Para.1
of the Motion Picture Law, shall submit an application in

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
triplicate stating therein the matters hereunder mentioned
to the Home Minister and the Education Minister through
the office of the prefect ural governor competent for the
place where the principal office of the motion picture
distribution exists:-
1. Full names and domicile.
2. The place where a detached or otherwise
distribution office exists;
3. Territory for distribution;
4. Methods and ways of distribution;
5. Kinds of motion pictures to be distrihuted;
6. Quantity of motion pictures proposed to be
distributed within a period of one year;
7. The time when business will be commenced.
The prospectus for promoting the business and the tenta-
tive statement of the profit and loss account shall be
attached to the Application of the preceding paragraph.
When the particulars of No.5 and/or No.7 of Para. 1
hereof are to be altered, permission therefor shall be
applied for, stating the reason thereof in accordance with
the examples set forth in Para. 1 hercof, to the Home
Minister and the Educatin Minister through the office of
the prefectural governor. When the particulars of No.1
to No. 4 of Para. 1 hereof have been altered, notification
thereof in duplicate shall be sent in without delay to the
Home Minister and the Education Minister through the
office of the prefectural governor in accordance with the
provisions of Para. 1 hereof.
Article 3.
When motion picture producers or motion picture distri-
butors have commenceu or abolished the business, notifica-
tion thereof in duplicate shall be sent in without delay
to the Home Minister and the Education Minister through
the office of the prefectural governor in accordance with
the provisions of Article 1, Para.1 or of Para. 1 of the
preceding Article as the case may be, same rule applying
to the case where business will be ceased for a period of
not less than six months.
Article 4.
In the event the motion picture producer or the motion
picture distributor died and the inheritance took place,
the successor shall send in the notification in duplicate,
within a period of two months therefrom, together with the
exemplification of the family register to the Home
Minister and the Education Minister through the office of
the prefectural governor in accordance with the provisions
of Article 1, Para. 1, or of Article 2, Para. 1, as the
case may be.
Article 5.
The motion picture producers and the motion picture
distributors shall, on or before the end of February for
each and every year, send in the notification in duplicate
mentioning therein the kinds and such other particulars
for the motion pictures that have been produced and/or
distributed during the year preceding in accordance with
the Form No.1 to the Home Minister and the Education Ministe

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Article 6.
The kinds of work are designated in accordance with
the provisions of Article 5 of the Motion Picture Law
as follows:
1. Representation;
2. Performance;
3. Photographing.
Article 7.
Persons who intend to be registered in accordance with the
provisions of Article 5 of the Motion Picture Law shall file
the Application for registration stating therein the parti-
culars hereundermentioned to the Home Minister.
1. Full name, domicile, vocational name and date of birth.
2. Kind of work.
In the Application for registration of the preceding para-
graph shall the papers hereundermentioned be attached:
1. Curriculum Vitae;
2. Certificate of Talent issued by the person
designated by the Home Minister;
3. Paper in proof of approval of the parent or
of one who supervises in lieu of a parent in
case of a minor, that of hushand in case of a
wife, or paper stating the opinion of the school-master
on the person while in course of school education.
When the particulars mentioned in No.1 of Para. 1
hereof have changed, the notification thereof shall be
sent in to the Home Minister.
Article 8.
When the Home Minister has effected the registration in
accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the Motion
Picture Law, the Certificate of Registration made after
the example of Form No.2 shall be delivered.
If the person who took delivery of the certificate of
registration according to the rule of the foregoing
paragraph has changed the name, vocational or otherwise,
or has had the same lost or destroyed, the rewriting or
re-issuance thereof may be applied for to the Home Minister.
Article 9.
Person whose vocation has been suspended or whose registra-
tion of vocation has been cancelled in accordance with the
provisions of Article 6 of the Motion Picture Law, shall,
without delay, return to the Home Minister the Certificate
of Registration obtained in accordance with the provisions
of Para. 1 of the preceding Article. Upon expiration of the
term of suspension of the vocation shall the Certificate
of Registration be returned again to the party.
Article 10.
When the person who was registered according to the rules
of Article 5 of the Motion Picture Law has abolished the
vocation or died, the party, in case of abolishment, and
the head or a member of the family, in ease of death, shall
without delay send in the notification thereof to the Home
Minister.

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
Article 1l. In the case where a motion picture producer intends to
employ a minor under fourteen of age in the work designa-
ted in Article 6, the notification shall be sent in to
the Home Minister stating the particulars hereundermentioned
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Full name, vocational name, domicile and
date of birth of the persons to be engaged;
3. The respective kind of work to be employed in.
To the notification of the preceding paragraph shall
the hereundermentioned papers be attached:
1. Certificate of Health of a physician in proof
of the health being suitable for work;
2. Paper in proof of approval of the parent or of
a person supervising in lieu of a parent of the
person to be employed or a paper stating the
opinion of the school-master in case of the person
to be employed being in the course of school education.
Article 12. Only in the cases mentioned hereunler may the motion
picture producer employ those who have not yet been
registered in accordance with the rules of Article 5
of the Motion Picture Law in the kinds of work
specified in Article 6:
1. When they are temporarily taken to the work on speci-
fied occasion of production of the motion picture.
Article 13. The motion picture producer shall not allow the minor
under sixteen of age and the girls to be engaged in
the production of motion pictures during the interval
of time as between 10 o'clock p.m. and 5 o'clock a.m.,
provided, however, that when temporarily necessary, this
rule shall not prevail if the permission of the chief of
the police station governing the place of work they are
engaged in has been therefor obtained.
Article 14. The kind of motion picture is designated as hereunder
mentioned in accordance with the provisions of Article 9,
Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law:-
1. Dramatic motion picture.
Article 15. When the motion picture producer intends to notify the
particulars in accordance with the provisions of the
former part of Article 9, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture
Law, the notification containing the following particulars
shall be sent in to the Home Minister ten days ahead of
the day when the photographing is commenced:
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture;
3. Name of the author of the original work and of the
adapter;
4. Name of the representer and of the principal performer
(actor);
5. Substance of the Motion Picture (mention shall be made
according to the playbook and two copies thereof attached)

=== Page 24 === (confidence 1.00)
-5-
6. The time to commence photographing and to
finish the production;
The Home Minister may, when deemed necessary, demand
the production of the paper in proof of the copyright of
the motion picture.
When the motion picture producer has altered the parti-
culars of No.2 to No.4 or the principal part of No.5
of Para. 1 hereof, notification thereof shall be sent in
to the Home Minister on each occasion of such alteration
in accordance with the provisions of the latter part of
Article 9, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law.
Article 16. The selection and recommendation of motion pictures pro-
vided for in Article 10 of the Motion Picture Law shall be
exercised in accordance with the following criterion:
1. Recommendation;
2. Awarding a prize;
The prize of No.2 of the preceding paragraph shall be
awarded to the producer in respect of such picture as has been
considered to be particularly superior being selected from
among those to which the Education Minister has awarded Recom-
mendation in accordance with No.l of the same paragraph.
Article 17. The owner of the motion picture which received the Recom-
mendation of the preceding Article may submit the playbook
of that motion picture with the seal-certifying-passage-of-
censorship of the Form No.8 being affixed thereon to the
Education Minister and have the seal-certifying-receipt-of-
recommendation of the Form No.3 affixed thereon.
Article 18. When the Education Minister orders to produce the motion
picture print in accordance with the provisions of
Article il of the Motion Picture Law, necessary particu-
lars such as the title of the motion picture, the term
for production and the length of the period of production
etc., shall be notified to the owner thereof.
If the owner of the motion picture print of the preceding
paragraoh is unable to produce the print according to the
notification of the preceding paragraph, he shall submit,
without delay, a notification stating the reason therefor
to the Education Minister.
Article 19. What is referred to as foreign motion pictures in the Motion
Picture Law shall be those falling within the purview of
either of the pictures mentioned hereunder:
1. The motion pictures produced in a foreign country,provided,
however, that those motion pictures which have been produced
by the subjects of the Japanese Empire or by the corporation
organized under the laws of the Japanese Empire and of which
the subject of the Japanese Empire being the principal re-
presenter, performer and/or cameraman and of whose title
and/or the sound reproduction being not principally foreign
language shall be excluded;

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
rticle 20.
The motion picture distributors shall not distribute
foreign dramatic motion pictures in excess of the quantity
allotted by the Home Minister.
The allotment of the preceding paragraph shall be effected
in respect of dramatic motion pictures proposed to be
distributed within the next following year, provided,
however, that as to the person who wishes to distribute
foreign pictures afresh the allotment shall be effected
with respect to such quantity as are proposed to be
distributed within that particular year.
Article 21.
When the motion picture distributors intend to receive
the allotment in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding Article, an Application shail be filed to the
Home Minister on or before the Slst October each year.
In the case of the proviso to the preceding Article or
when there is special cause, the motion picture distribu-
tor shall be allowed to file the Application of the
preceding paragraph at any time, limitation of the term
of the preceding paragraph notwithstanding.
Article 22.
The following particulars shall be mentioned in the
Application of the preceding Article:
1. Full name end domicile.
2. Cuantity of the foreign motion pictures proposed
to be distributed.
The following papers shall be attached to the Application
of the preceding paragraph:
1. Protocol prepared according to the Form No.4 with res-
pect to the dramatic motion pictures which have been dis
tributed within the period of three years ahead of the
month preceding to the month in which the Application
is filed.
2. Protocols prepared according to the Form No.5 with
respect to the motion pictures which have been exported
within the period of one year ahead of the month preced-
ing to the month in which the Application is filed.
Article 23. The Home Minister may, when deemed necessary, order the
alteration of the quantity that has been allotted in
accordance with the provisions of Article 20.
Article 24.
Persons who intend to receive the censorship mentioned
in Article 13, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall
file the Application to the Home Minister, stating therein
the particulars mentioned hereunder together with the
print to be censored and a copy of the play-book:-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture;
3. Full name and domicsle of the producer;
4. Number of reels and length;
5. Proposed date for export;
6. Object of export;

=== Page 26 === (confidence 1.00)
-7-
7. Port of shipment and the destination.
8. Full name and domicile of the consignee.
As for news-reels for which there is no time for receiving
the censorship of the Home Minister, censorship may as
well be received by filing the Application, in accordance
with the example of the preceding paragraph, to the pre-
fectural governor of the place of production or of the
port of shipment.
When deemed necessary, the censorship authorities ray
demand the production of a paper in proof of copy right
of the motion picture.
Article 25.
Persons who intend to receive the censorship mentioned
in Article 14, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall
file the application in duplicate to the Home Minister,
stating therein the particulars mentioned hereunder,
together with the prints to be censored and three copies
of play-book (in case censorship is applied for the
duplicate of motion picture within a period of not
exceeding three years as after the original print thereof
having passed the censorship, one copy of the play-book
will be enough for the purpose):
1. Full name and domicile.
2. Title of the motion picture (in case of a foreign
motion picture, the original titles and its transla-
tion shall both be mentioned);
3. Full name and domicile of the producer;
4. Number of reels and length;
5. As for a dramatic motion picture, the date of the
notification of the provisions of Article 9, Para. 1
of the motion picture law.
As for newsreels for which there is no time for receiving
the censorship of the Home Minister, censorship may as
well be received by applying to the prefectural governor
of the place of exhibition in accordance with the example
of the preceding paragraph.
Provisions of Para. 3 of the preceding Article shall
apply to the cases of the foregoing two paragraphs
with necessary modifications:
Article 26.
The motion picture which was censored in accordance with
the provisions of Article 13, Para. 1 of the Motion
Picture Law shall be dealt with as disqualified if it falls
within the purview of any one of the following numbers:-
1. Pictures that are calculated to dehase the dignity of the
Imperial Household or to spoil the prestige of the Empire;
2. Pictures that are calculated to be prejudicial to the
interest of the Empire from either political, military,
diplomatic or economic view points or otherwise;
3. Pictures that are calculated to give rise to misunder-
standing as to the national culture;
4. Pictures the art, technique, or technicalities of
production of which are particularly inferior;

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
5. Pictures that are otherwise unsuitable for export.
rticle 27.
In case where motion pictures that have been censored in
accordance with the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1 of
the Motion Picture Law fall within the purview of any of
the following numbers, they shall fail to be qualified:-
1. Pictures that are calculated to debase the dignity of the
Imperial Household or to spoil the prestige of the Empire;
2. Pictures that are calculated to propagade the ideology
in defiance of the Imperial Constitution;
3. Pictures that are calculated to be impedimental from
the political or military, diplomatic or economical points
of view and/or the view point of public interest.
4. Pictures that are calculated to defy the good manners
or to spoil the national moral;
5. Pictures that are calculated to be especially detrimental
to the purity of the national language;
6. Pictures the art, technique or technicalities of produc-
tion of which is particularly inferior;
7. Pictures that are calculatec to otherwise retard the
progress of the national culture.
Article 28.
As for the pictures which passed the censorship, the Censor-
ship-passage-certificate as per the Form No. 6 shall be
given and the Seal-of-Passage and mark and number he
affixed on the motion picture print with respect to those
covered under the Application of the provisions of Article
24 and the Seal-of-Passage and mark and number as per the
Form No.7 shall be affixed on the motion picture print
and Seal-of-Passege as per the Form No.8 on the playbook
with respect to those covered under the Application of
the provisions of Article 25, provided, however, that,
as for those which passed the censorship under the
provisions of Article 24, Para. 2 and of Article 25,
Para. 2, the Seal-of-Passage and mark and number to be
otherwise affixed on the motion picture print may well
be omitted.
Article 29.
The passage of censorship of Article 13, Para.1 of the
Motion Picture Law shall be valid for a period of three
months, and the passage of censorship of Article 14,
Para. 1 of the same Law for a period of three years,
provided, however, that the passage of censorship
exercised by the prefectural governor in accordance with
the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1 of the same Law
shali be valid for a period of three months and the
validity thereof shall not prevail in other prefecture.
Article 30.
In cases where special circumstances exist, the censorship
authorities may, in respect of the motion pictures cen-
sored, designate the term of validity for the passage of
censorship otherwise than that provided for in the pre-
ceding Article or may impose territorial or other
limitation or restriction.
When the censorship authorities have imposed the limita-
tion or restriction mentioned in the preceding paragraph,
statement to such effect shall be entered in the Censorship-
passage-certificate in respect of one applied for in

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
accordance with the provisions of Article 24 and in the
play-book in respect of one applied for in accordance with
the provisions of Article 24 and in the play-book in
respect of one applied for in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 25 as the case may be.
Article 31.
When the Home Minister has effected the dispositions
provided for in Article 13, Para. & of the Motion Picture Law,
the Censorship-passage-certificate shall be caused to be
returned to the authorities and the seal and mark and number
affixed in proof of passage on the print itself be cancelled
in the case of prohibition, and a sttement to such effect be
entered in the censorship-passage-certificate in the case of
limitation.
Article 32.
When the motion pictuie which passed the censorship falls
within the purview of any one of the following numbers,
re-affixation of the Seal-of-Passage or of mark and
number or re-issuance of the Censorship-passage-certificate
may be applied for to the censorship authorities concerned
of that particular motion picture:-
1. When the Seal-of-Passage or mark and number affixed on
the motion picture print has been destroyed;
2. When the playbook on which the Seal-of-Passage had been
affixed has been lost or destroyed;
3. When the Censorship-passage-certificate h:s been lost
or destroyed.
In the case of No.2 of the preceding Paragraph, a further
copy of playbook shall be produced.
Article 33.
When it is desired that the particulers of No.2 or No.7 of
Article 24, Para.1 or of No.2 of Article 25, Para.1 be altered
with respect to the motion picture that has passed the censor-
ship, permission therefor shall be obtained from the censorshi
authoritios concerned of that particular motion picture.
Article 34.
The censorship authorities shall charge the following fees
with respect to the censorship in accordance with the provisio
of Article 14, Para.1 of the Motion Picture Law:-
1. As for the motion picture which is subject to censorship
of the Home Minister, one sen per retre or any fraction,
and one sen and five rin per one metre or fraction with
respect to a foreign motion picture;
2. As for the duplicate of the motion picture which received
the censorship of the Home Minister being applied for cen-
sorship by the one and same applicant and as for those for
whose censorship the application is filed within an inter
val of not over six months as after the expiration of the
term of validity of the passage of censorship, five rin
per one metre or any fraction, and seven rin and five mo
per one metre or fraction for a foreign motion picture;
3. One sen per three metres or fraction as for the motion
picture which received the censorship of the prefectural
governor.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
When deemed necessary from the point of view of public
interest, the censorship authorities may exempt the fees.
The fees provided for in Para.1 hereof shall be paid in
revenue stamps by affixing on the Application for censorship.
rticle 35.
The motion pictures that shall be caused to be exhibited
in accordance with the provisions of Article 15, Para.1
of the Motion Picture Law shall be such as have been
sanctioned by the Education Minister to be contributory
toward fostering national spirit or enlightening and
promoting the intellect and talent of the nationals, with
the exception of dramatic motion pictures.
The motion picture exhibitors shall exhibit a quantity of
250 metres or more, at a time, of the motion picture thet
has been sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of
the preceding paragraph, provided, however, that this rule
shall not prevail in the case where the motion picture
exhibitor exhibits the prints in accordance with the
provisions of Article 15, Para. 2 and also where the
motion picture which has been awarded with Recommendation
under the rule of Article 16 are exhibited.
Article 36.
Persons who intend to obtain sanctions according to the
provisions of Para. 1 of the prececing Article shall file
to the Education Minister the Application for sanction
stating therein the particulars mentioned in No.1 to No.4
of Article 25, Para.1 together with the print of motion
picture calling for the sanction and two copies of play-book
(one of the two copies containing the Seal-of-Passege of the
Form No.8).
Article 37.
When the sanction has been rendered in accordance with the
provisions of Article 35, Para.1, the Seal-of-Sanction
of the Form No.9 shall be affixed on the play-book of the
very motion picture print on which the Seal-of-Passage of
the Form No.8 is being affixed.
Article 38. The term of validity of the sanction of Article 35, Para.1
shall be one and the same as the term of validity granted for
the motion picture itself upon passage of the censorship.
Article 39.
The Home Minister may, in cases of special circumstances,
cancel the sanction granted under Article 35, Para. 1.
When the sanction has been cancelled in accordance with
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Seal-of-
Sanction affixed on the playbook of the very motion picture
shall be struck out by erasure.
Article 40.
When the Seal-of-Passage has been re-affixed on the play-
book in accordance with the provisions of Article 32,
Para.1 with respect to the motion picture which receivea
the sanction of Article 35, Para. 1, the playbook
concerned shall be without delay produced before the
Education Minister applying for re-affixation of the
Seal-of-Sanction of the form No.9.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 1.00)
-11-
41. When the prefectural governor intends to cause the
motion picture to be exhibited in accordance with the
provisions of Article 15, Para. 2 of the Motion Picture
Law, the period of such exhibition shall be fixed as
within one week at a time, provided, however, that such
exhibition shall not be of a period put together in excess
of six weeks per year for one cinematographic theatre.
Article 42. The motion picture exhibitor who operates a permanent cinema-
tographic theatre shall not exhibit dramatic foreign motion
pictures in excess of fifty prints as aggregated for the
whole year and in respect of a certain cinematographic theatre.
In case where the exhibitor of the preceding paragraph ex-
hibits a dramatic foreign motion picture that has been played
at the same theatre of his, such picture shall not be calcula-
ted into the number of prints of the preceding paragraph.
In the event an exhibitor commences the exhibition of
dramatic foreign motion pictures afresh in the middle of
the year, the number of prints proviced for in Para. 1
hereof shall be computed by the number of months.
Article 43. The motion picture exhibitor who operates a permanent
cinematographic theatre shall not have the exhibition
lasting beyond three hours at a time, provided, however,
that, in case where the exhibition is effected in accord-
ance with the provisions of Article 15, Para. 2 of the
Motion Picture Law, extension shall be allowed within a
length of time not exceeding thirty minutes.
Article 44. The motion picture exhibitor or any other person who
exhibits a motion picture otherwise than for business shall
not have the prints projected on the screen at a speed of
over 27.4 metres a minute.
Article. 45. The motion picture exhibitor or the one who exhibits the
motion picture otherwise than for business shall not be
allowed to exhibit unless with the projector equipped with
the automatic safety-switches.
Article 46. The motion picture exhibitor or one who exhibits the motion
pictures otherwise than for business, shall not allow
minors under fourteen of age to be admitted into the place
of exhibition with the exception of the case where the
pictures played are exclusively those passed by censorship
in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1
and recognized by the Education Minister (in case of a
picture passed the censorship of the prefectural governor,
the governor concerned) to be harmless fromminor's educa-
tional point of view, provided, however, that this rule
shall not prevail where the minors under six of age are in
company with a guardian.
Article 47.
When the recognition of the preceding Article has been
granted, the Seal-of-Recognition after the Form No.10
shall be affixed on the playbook containing the Seal-of-
Passage ofthe Form No.8, provided, however, that in the

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
32-
case of the prefectural governor's recognition such seal
may well be omitted.
The provisions of Article 38 to Article 40 shall apply to
the recognition of the preceding Article with necessary
modifications.
Article 48.
The motion picture exhibitor or the one who exhibits the
motion picture otherwise than for business shall not allow
to operate the projection machine by other than those with
projection license granted by the prefectural governor,
provided, however, that this rue shall not prevail where
the film concerned is non-inflammable. The motion picture
exhibitor or one who exhibits the motion picture other-
wise than for business shall install two sets of projec-
tion machines, and, in case the exhibition lasts as a rule
six hours consecutively, three, and in case of less hours,
two, projection licensees shall be put to work.
Article 49.
In case the full name and domicile shall be entered in
the Application or in the Notification according to the
provisions of this Ordinance, the trade-name, the address
of the principal office, the full name and domicile of the
representative thereof shall be entered in the case of the
party concerned being a juridical person.
Article 50.
Persons who contravened the rules of Article 3; 4; 11,
Para. 1 and of Article 33, shall be subject to a minor fine.
Article 51.
In case his agents, head of his family, member of his family,
inmste, employee or wbsoever works under him shall have com-
mitted an act falling within the purview of the provisions
of the preceding Article, the motion picture producer,distri-
butor or one owning the motion picture that has passed the
censorship shall not be exempt from punishment on the excuse
that this particuar act had not been in accordance with his
direction.
Article 52.
The criminal provisions of Article 50 shall be applied to
the member of the board, the director or any other officer
who executes the affairs in case the offender is a
juridical person, and to the legal agent in case the
offender is a minor or a person incompetent of managing
the property, provided, however, that this rle shall not
prevail where the minor concerned is legally competent
same as an adult in respect of the business concerned.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
Article 53.
This Ordinance shall be enforced as from the day on which
the Motion Picture Law takes effect, provided, however,
that the provisions of Article 20, Article 42 and Article
46 shall take effect as from January 1st 1940, those of
Article 35, Para. 2 as from January 1st 1940 so far as tne
cities of Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka, Yokohama, Kobe and Nagoya
are concerned and as from July 1st 1940 so far as any
other cities, towns or villages are concerned, and that the
provisions of Article 45 and 48 shall take effect as from
Öctober 1st 1940.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
The Home Office Ordinances mentioned hereunder shall be abolishe
1. "The motion picture film censorship regulations":
the Home Office Ordinance No.10 of May 1925;
2. "The export motion picture film regulations": the
Home Office Ordinance No.63 of October 1935;
3. "In the matter concerning the hours of exhibition
of the motion picture and the limitation to the
meterage of the print": the Home Office Ordinance No.55
of December 1937.
Article 55. Persons engaging in the business according to the provi-
sions of Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions to the
Motion Picture Law shall, within one month as from the day
of enforcement of this Ordinance, send in the notification
in duplicate, stating therein the particulars of No.1 to
No.3 and No.5 of Article 1, Para. i in respect of the
motion picture producers; and the particulars of No.1 to
No.3 and No.5 of Article 2, Para. 1 in respect of the
motion picture distributors, to the Home Minister and the
Education Minister through the office of the prefectural
governor mentioned in Article 1, Pare. 1 or Article 2,
Para. 1 as the case may be, provided, however, that this
rule shall not prevail where the Application for the permit
has been meanwhile filed in accordance with the provisions
of Article 1 or Article 2 as the case may be.
Article 56.
The term of validity of the censored films that have been
censored by the administrative authorities prior to enforce-
ment of this ordinance or the film which passed the
inspection for export shall be the remeinder of the term
of validity as governed by the old rules.
Article 57.
The motion picture exhibitors shall not be allowed to
exhibit motion pictures, withn the interval of six months
as from the time of the provisions of Article 35, Para. 2
taking effect, with the exception of the number of days
equivalent to fifty percent of the playdays of each month,
as according to the rules of the said paragraph.
In cases where the motion picture exhibitors exhibit films
that have passed the censorship of the administrative
authorities prior to this Ordinance having taken effect
or such duplicates thereof as having received the sanction
of Article 35, Para. 1, the provisions concerning meterage
as mentioned in said Article Para. 2 shall not prevail
during the intervel of three years as from the time when this
Ordinance has taken effect.
Article 58.
In cases where censored films that have passed the censor-
ship of the administrative authrities prior to this Ordi-
nance coming into effect are either exclusively exibited
or else along with the motion pictures that have received
sanction under the rule of Article 46 hereof, with the
exception of the case where the Education Minister regards
it specificaily necessary, the rules of Article 46 shall
not prevail.
--0000000--

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
16th November 1939.
. . the Hon. Joseph C. Grew,
Americam Ambassador to Japan,
American Embassy,
Tokyo.
Your Excellency:
The American Motion Picture Association, expressing their
sincere appreciation for the interview granted on the l3th inst.,
beg to submit below a resume of our present problems concerning
the importation of American pictures nto Japan and the remittance
of funds te our parent companies in New York. In dealing with our
problems we believe it would be advisable to segregate them under
three headings.
1.
PRESENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE FINANCE MINISTRY
AND THE AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION.
Bince the outbreak of the so-called China Incident, the Ameri-
can Motion Picture Companies in formulating plans to continue busi-
ness during the emergency period without embarrassing the financial
and economic policies of the Government, came to an agreement with
the Finance Ministry. The original approach in connection with this
agreement was made by a certain Mr. Hisaji Kubo, a personal friend
of the then Finance Minister, Mr. O. Kaya. Mr. Kubo having obtained
letters of introduction from the Foreign Ministry in Japan, and from
the late Ambassador to the United States, Mr. Saito, presented him-
self as an Official Representative of the Japanese Authorities to the
foreign mamagers of the American Distributing Companies in New York,
with certain proposals designed to enable the Japanese Government
and the American Motion Picture Distributors to come to mutually
acceptable terms for the conduet of future operations in Japan. The
entire matter was referred by our Head Offices to the American Motion
Pieture Association in Japan. Several conferences took place between
Mr. H. Kubo and the American Motion Picture Assn., in Tokyo, as a
result of which this Association agreed to pay Mr. Kubo Y30,000 as a
gratuity if, and when, the agreement with the Finance Ministry would
be completed. At the same time the American Motion Picture Assn.
held several conferences with various members of the Finance Ministry.
After protracted negotiations an Agreement was finally made with the
Finance Ministry and under date of August 10, 1938, the Ameriean
Motien Pioture Assn. received an Official Document from the Finance
Ministry signed by Mr. Kojiro Nakamura, Head of the Exchange Bureau.
This document outlines in detail the entire arrangement, under which
the members of the American Motion Picture Assn. representing the
eight major Motion Picture Distributing Companies of the United Stater
weuld be permitted to impert a limited number of pictures amounting
to $s0,000 print cost, figured at the rate of lt cents per feet, and
to remit te their respective Head Offices in New York accumulated fum
amounting to the sum of 18,000,000 under a deferred payment plan of
three years without interest.
The emtire arrangement should hmve been completed by December
Slst 19s8 as stipulated in the agreement.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The agreement was worded in such a way as to give the Finance
Ministry an opportunity to deviate from the terms of same. However,
despite considerable delay, the Finance Ministry have issued permits
cevering the remittances of the entire amount of Y3,000,00 as specified
in the agreement and also permits for the importation of pictures up to
the amount of U. S. $20,000. The last import permits were issued by
the Finance Ministry only in September this year, or exactly nine
months after the expiration date of the agreement.
On the strength of the agreement the members of the American
Motion Pieture Association have ordered a considerable supply of pic-
tures which have subsequently arrived at Yokohama and have been kept
there in readiness for immediate importation on receipt of permits.
The members have also obligated themselves to considerable expense in
preparing for the resumption of their normal business activities in
Japan.
On repeated advice from the Finance Ministry the American Motion
Picture Association paid Mr. Sisaji Kubo, who presented himself as
the promoter of the entire plan to the Ministry, the sum of Y30,000
as a gratuity for his efforts in bringing about the consummation of
the entire arrangement.
Since the restrictions on imports of pictures and export of
capital were put into effect by the Japansese Government, a great
number of Japanese Films have been, and are still being exported to
the United States. Home Ministry reports give the following statistios
covering export censor permits issued for Japansese films for shipment
to the U.s. (Sept. 1937 has been taken as the time at which the ban
on imports of American films into Japan was enforced):
Bept. - Dec. 1937 84 Feature Films
630,700 feet
Shorts and news
230.800
Total
835,500 ft.
Jan. - Dec. 1938 210 Feature Films
1,328,800 feet
Shorts and news
525.500
Total
..1,854,300 ft.
Jan. - June 1939
110 Feature Films
651,100 feet
Shorts and news
319.300
Total
970,400 ft.
Grand Total since import ban
3.660.200 ft.
(404 Feature plus shorts and news)
These figures show that Japan exports more film to Americar
than anywhere else, and also that Japanese footage imported into
America is greater than that from any other single country. Besides
al these are being admitted into the U.B. without any difficulty

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
whatever, neither is there any restriction as regards payment for
them. As compared with the above export figures, the eight American
compamies of this Association have, since the ban was enfjorced and
up to date, received permits for approximately $20,000 print cost
covering 1,s30,000feet of imports.
The American Motion Picture Association exhausted every possible
arenue of approach to speed up the fulfillment of the said agreement
At present no indication is evident as to the time of issuance of
import permits covering the balance of U. S. $10,000 print cost.
While we fully realize that the actual legality of the document
received from the Finance Ministry is debatable, the fact that the
Finance Ministry have carried out the agreement to its present extent
and also that there was an implied acknowledgement of the agreement in
their request to pay Mr. Kubo the gratuity mentioned above, would seem
to indicate that the Authorities accepted the agreement in good faith:
Furthermore, the American Motion Picture Assn. have been repeatedly
told by the Finance Ministry that as long as this agreement is not
completed, no other method of importation or remittances could be ex-
pected.
The members of this Association earnestly solicit Your
Excellency's assistance in presenting their case to the proper
authorities. We might mention that the Foreign Office is fully
cognisont of all these negotiations and in fact have on a number of
occasions expressed their interest in it and desire to see the matter
satisfactorily completed.
2.
THE NEW MOTION PICTURE LAW.
At the end of September the Home inistry officially notified thi
American Motion Picture Association of the provisions of the new
Motion Picture Law. The Law will be enforced from January 1st 1940.
Under a provision of this Law, the members of the American Motion Pie
ture Association will be placed on a quota basis for the distribution
of piotures in Japan. All indications are that the quota for each
individual distributor will be extremely small as compared to the
average number of pictures imported and distributed by the members of
this Association heretofore.
The Home Ministry, however, in discussing the application of the
New Motion Pioture Law with various members of the Industry have indi
cated that they intend to take into consideration the diplomatic and
economic relationship existing between Japan and various other
countries. Of the total number of foreign pictures distributed in
Japan in normal times, the American pictures occupied the major
portion.Even since the restrictions were put into effect, the
Ameriean Motion Picture Distributors represented by this Association
have been importing and releasing approximately 80% of the total
foreign product.
As the Home Ministry are still undecided as to the quota
allocation for each individual distributor, this Association believe

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
that it might be timely to make a representation through diplomatio
channels to impress upon the Authorities the difference in the stand-
ing of the American Distributors as compared to the independent dis-
tributors dealing in piotures from other countries. The members of
this Association have already made their representation to the Home
Ministry, however, no tangible results were obtained. Simultaneously
with our approach to Your Excellency, the American Motion Picture Assn.
is making a similar report to the Hays Organization with a request to
bring our case to the attention of the State Department and to make a
suitable petition to embody the Motion Picture Industry into any
possible negotiations between the United States and Japan, so that we
may be permitted to continue business on a reasonable scale.
3.
FROZEN FUNDS.
Since February 1939 - the last remittance under our present
agreement with the Finance Ministry - no remittances whatsoever have
been allowed. We estimate that at present funds accumulated in Japan
by the members of this Association amount to Y4,000,000. Assuming that
the present agreement is entirely completed, the attitude of the
Finance Ministry leads us to believe that the possibility of further
remittances is remote. The continued accumulation of funds will be-
come an intolerable situation for our Head Offices.
We are, therefore, particularly anxious to arrive at some
arrangement with the Finance Ministry for future remittances and we
trust that this question may be included in the representations that
we petition Your Excellency to make. We have also included this pro-
blem in our letter to the Hays Organization, with a request to embody
same into their representation to the State Department.
We are, Your Excellency,
Yours very truly,
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASSOCIATION OF JAPAN
(sd) R. D. Spierman
Hon. Secretary.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
May 26th, 1939
O. Kaya, Esq.,
Tokye.
sir:
We wish to take this opportunity of reiterating our
gratitude for your kind efforts on our behalf with the
Minister of Finance, which resulted in the conclusion of an
agreement between the Finance Ministry of the Imperial Japanese
Government and the American Motion Picture Association of Japan.
This, as you will undoubtedly recall, was the outcome of the
asceptance by the Director of the Exchange Control Bureau of
the proposals offered by the said Association.
Aecording to this agreement, the Finance Ministry undertook to
permit the eight American motion picture distributors in Tokyo,
who comprise the American Motion Picture Association of Japan,
the importation of motion picture prints to the extent of
$30,000, and to remit to their respective Head Offices in Mew
York accumulated funds aggregating 3,000,000 in total under a
deferred payment plan of three years without interest. The
entire arrangement should have been completed by December 3lst
1958 as stipulated in the agreement.
The provisions regarding the remittances of funds have been
completed. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case with
regard to the undertakings covering the importation of pictures.
Between the time the agreement was signed on August 10th 1938
and th1s date, only $15,000 worth of pictures, or one-half of
the amount, has been permitted us for importation.
In spite of the repeated visits to the Exchange Control Bureau of the
Finanee Ministry, we have until now been unable to obtain amy
indication as to the possible dates on which the permits for the
balance of the pictures will be granted. This Association was
informed by the Exchange Control Bureau that they would be in a
position to grant us at least a portion of the balance of the
permits after the new Motion Picture Law had been passed by the
biet.
Simce then, representatives of this Association have called many
times at the Exchange Control Buresu of the Finance Mimistry
with a view to finding out the Dates on which we may expect permits
for the balanee, but were advised that no definite promises could
be made as to the dates on which permits for the balance of the
pietures will be granted.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
一 2 -
Our parent companies in New York and our Hollywood executives
have ascepted the entire agreement in good faith and expected the
same to be earried out in accordance with its provisions and on
the dates specified. We, the American Motion Picture Association
of Japan, have been requested by our parent companies to give them
reasons and explanations for the continual delay, and to approach
the Japanese Government with a view to clarifying its intentions
regarding the fulfillment of this agreement, so that they, our New
York Head Offices, and Hollywood producers may decide on certain
pelicies of action.
The American Motion Picture Association of Japan has already
addressed letters to "Variety" and other leading motion picture
trade papers in America with a view to forestalling any reports in
eomneotion with the above mentioned agreement that might create an
umdesirable impression or be interpreted as a reflection on the
word of the Japanese Government. These letters have been published
with very favorable comment. A copy is attached hereto. We are
particularly desirous of maintaining such a position that we will
be able to continue to exert our utmost efforts towards checking
any anti-Japanese tendencies in American motion picture circles,
which so far have been negligible.
The members of the American Motion Picture Association of Japan
represent the eight biggest motion picture companies in the United
States which have been acclaimed as the leading factors in the
motion picture industry throughout the world. The American
motion picture industry represents a very powerful force of
public opinion in the United States as weli as throughout the
world, having at its command tremendous resources, and producing
pictures not only for entertainment but also for cultural purposes
as well as for the purpose of dissemination of news through the
medium of newsreel pictures.
As the present position taken by the Ministry of Finance
indicates unwiliingness on the part of the Japanese Government
to carry out the agreement in its original form, this Association
fears that this attitude may be interpreted by our respective
Head Offiees as a desire of the Japanese Government to abrogate
the agreement. This matter may not be of great importance from
the Japanese Govermment's viewpoint, but Japan's claim to fair
play and justice would seem to infer the strict fulfillment of any
agreement undertaken. In view of this, the stand now being taken
by the Exehange Control Bureau of the Finance Ministry cannot be
regarded as anything but unfair. Such an attitude on the part of
the Japamese Govermment may result in creating a bad impression
on the American motion picture producers and the American public
as a whole, which will naturally affect the bonds of friendship
existing between the two countries.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
一8-
Beeause of the delay and the seriousness of the situation
as it affects our business, several of our Head Offices
have dispatched their special representatives to Japan to
investigate this matter. These representatives have
expressed considerable dissatisfaction at the slow
progress of the execution of the entire arrangement.
Several members of this Association have been requested
by their respective Head Offices to return to the
United States for the purpose of reporting and explaining
the true status of the motion picture industry in Japan
in general, the reasons for the lay in the granting of
the permits for the balance of the pictures as stipulated
in the aforesaid agreement, to make reports relative to
now legislation affecting our industry and finally to
present the opinions and submit the recommendations of
this Association as to the future prospects for American
motion picture activity in Japan.
The American Motion Picture Association in Japan has done
everything in its power up to the present time to prevent
the dissemination of unfavorable propaganda through the
medium of motion pictures, always desiring and anxious to
maintain the traditional friendly relations existing between
Japan and the United States. It is because of this desire
that we earnestly beg you to bnd us your good offices and
influence towards the speedy fulfillment of the above
mentioned agreement by the Ministry of Finance.
Respectfully yours,
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASSIN OF JAPAN
Chairman

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
10th August, 1939.
B. Ikeda, Esq.,
Tokye.
sirt
Approximately two months ago, the AmPA addressed a petition to
Your Exeellency. We believe that it received your kind attention,
for shortly thereafter, the Finance Ministry issued us import
permits to the amount of $2,05l. However, we are sure you will
realize that, lacking any indication of subsequent permits, this
quantity filis but an extremely small part of the requirements of
the market for the immediate future. Under the circumstances, we
feel constrained to approach Your Excellency again for further
consideration of our agreement with the Finance Ministry signed
in August 1988.
Despite the above-mentioned agreement, whereby film imports to
the extent of $s0,000 were to be permitted by the end of last
year, we have so far received permits only amounting to approximately
$17,s00. In the last seven months, permits have been 1ssued to us
only once -- this was in June and, as stated above, amounted to
only $2,051.
Realising the situation and the wishes of the government, this
Association earlier in the year proposed to the Finance Ministry
a postponement of several months beyond the deadline specified in
the agreement, and requested an approximate schedule of imports
over the extended period. While the Ministry of Finance was at
that time favorably inelined towards some such amicable arrangement,
actually nothing was effected and the matter simply allowed to
lapse indefinitely.
As it is already over seven months since the agreement should have
been fulfilled and just a year since the agreement was signed, our
Head Offices are making constant inquiries of us, and are showing
ummistakable signs of impatience and concern over the status of
our agreement with the Japanese Govermment. This Associatiom is
placed in the extremely embarrassing position of trying to overcome
any erroneous or unfavorable impressions while at the same time

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
being unable to offer any explanations as to the continued
delay.
Another point of prime importance is the question of substitute
permits for films which are banned by the authorities. Because
of the recent tightening of censorship requirements, several
films have been rejected. While we are perfectly willing to
abide by any such rulings which the government may think to be
to the best advantage of the nation, on the other hand, frankly,
we fail to understand the Finance Ministry's objection to allowing
a substitute picture for each one as rejected. Although assurances
in this regard were given us verbally in early discussions, we are
at present encountering great difficulty with our applications for
such replacements.
We wish also to take this opportunity of mentioning that import
permits have not always been issued proportionately to the
individual quotas of the separate companies. In other words, there
is considerable divergence among the companies in the proportion
of permits granted to total allotment. The highest company has
received 62% of their import quota, while the lowest is 53%. We
are very anxious to have all companies treated as equitably as
possible in this matter of allocation.
▲ great number of Japanese films are being exported to the United
States. Home Ministry reports give the following statistics
covering export censor permits issued for Japanese films for
shipment to the U.8. (Bept.l937 has been taken as the time at
whieh the ban on imports of American films into Japan was enforced):
Sept. - Dec. 1937 84 Feature films
681,700 feet
Short subjects & news
203.800
Total ......
835,500 ft.
Jan. - Dec. 1938 210 Feature films
1,828,800 feet
Shorts & news
585,500
1,854,300 ft.
Jan. - June 1939 110 Feature films
651,100 feet
Shorts & news
319.300
870.400 ft.
Grand Total since import ban
8,660,800 ft.
(404 Feature films plus shorts & news)

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-8 -
These figures show that Japan exports more film to America
than anywhere else, and also that Japanese footage imported
into America is greater than that from any other single
country. Besides, all these are being admitted into the U. 8.
without any difficulty whatever, neither is there any restric-
tion as regards payment for them.
As compared with the above export figures, the eight American
companies of this Association have, in the same period since
the ban was enforced, received permits for approximately $17,500
covering 1,835,000 feet of imports. During this year, we have
received only one set of permits -- this was in June and amounted
to only $2,051, or 136,700 feet.
Notwithstanding the extremely severe conditions with which
American films are burdened in Japan, there have as yet been no
countervailing measures or reprisals in America. Although we
have received suggestions (which are perfectly natural) to
appeal to the American Embassy, we have adopted the stand that
this is a purely business transaction between the Finance Ministry
and ourselves, and we have consequently followed the poliey of
confining it to these limits. We feel that this is the more
desirable method for both parties, as we see no reason why the
entire agreement cannot be fulfilled in an amicable and mutually
satisfactory manner without involving diplomatic representations.
In the case of the agreement in question, as the remaining
balance of 12, 500 is not a sum of any greet magnitude we most
earnestly request that, in the interests of goodwill and with
sineerity of purpose, these import permits be issued, and that
we, the American companies operating here, be accorded treatment
more in line with that given to Japanese films in America.
Respectfully yours,
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE ASS'N OF JAPAN
Chairman

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
mittance Division, Confidential No. 1l.
August 10, 1938
Mr. Miehael M. Bergher,
Representative of American Motion Picture
Association of Japan.
We hereby inform you that it is expected that the matters re-
lating to the importation of American motion pictures under credit,
which have been applied for under date of May 28, 1938, through Mr.
Hisaji Kubo will be approved in accordance with the following terms
and conditions:
1.
To be allowed to import pictures on or before the last day of
1938, up to the maximum of $30,000 in print costs (this amount
may be changed by mutual arrangement according to changes in
the foreign trade of this country in the future); the minimum
price for one foot shall be lt cents.
2.
In connection with the time and quantity of importation of said
pictures, an importation plan for each month shall be filed on
or before the last day of the preceding month and the approval
of the competent authorities shall be obtained therefor.
8.
In respect of the importation of said pictures, each company
shall be required to obtain permission under Article 1 or
Article 4 - (2) of Department of Finance Order No. 1 of 1937
at each time of importation.
4.
Importation of pictures of such kind as are not suitable to
the present extraordinary situation of this country will not
be allowed.
5.
The royalty obtained from the exhibition of the imported pic-
tures may be remitted to America through the Yokohama Specie
Bank up to Y3, 000,000 on or before the last day of 1938 (1n-
clusive of unremitted royalty of approximate Y2,000,000 accumu-
lated during the period from eptember, 1937 to May 15, 1938)
8.
In respect to the time and number of installments of re-
mittances of said royalties and the amount of each installment,
a remittance plan shall previously be filed and the approval
of the competent authorities shall be obtained therefor.
7.
In respect to the remittance of said royalties, each company
shall be required to obtain permission under Article 3 of
Department of Finance Order No. 7 of 1933 at each time of re-
mittance.
8.
The mount remitted with the aforesaid permission shall be
converted into American currency and shall be deposited with
the San Francisco Branch of the Yokohama Specie Bank without
interest and shall not be paid to the payee before full three
years have elapsed after the completion of a remittance.
9.
If the amount of royalty received does not reach Y3,000,000 at
the end of this year, permission for remittance shall be limited
in the amount thus received.

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
10. In regard to royalties received, each company shall immediately
report to the competent authorities the amount as on May 13 and
July 31, 1988, and shall also report the amount on the last day
of each month including August, 1938, and for months thereafter
on or before the loth of the following month. Provided that
 to bank deposits a certification of such bank shall be
attached.
1l. If any of the applicant companies should violate the laws and
regulations of the foreign exchange control or any of the fore-
going paragraphs or otherwise act impropertly, an approval in
question shall be cancelled.
12.
The matters relating to the reshipment of imported pictures, the
amount borne by the principal office and the supply of raw films
shall have nothing to do with an approval in question.
Kojiro Nakamura
Head of Exchange Bureau
of the Department of
Finance (Office Seal)

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
(ocument annexed to communication)
(From Department of Finance
Outline of Memorandum produced bym
American Motion Picture Association of
Japan (consisting of eight companies)
1. Plan for remittance and importation of films.
(a) We wish to obtain permission for the remittance of
Y3,000,000 (including unremitted royalties of approxi-
mately Y2,000,000 which were accumulated from September
of last year to this date) before the end of this year.
provided that said amount will be paid to Yokohema
Specie Bank which Bank will convert the amounts into
American dollars and transmit them to its New York
Branch, and they will be paid over to the addressees
by the New York Branch of the Yokbaama Specie Bank
after three years. No interest shall accrue.
(b) We wish to obtain permission for the importation of pic-
tures in the maximum of $30,000 in print costs before
the end of this year. For this $30,000 we wish to ob-
tain permission for immediate remittance or payment by
draft on each arrival of pictures.
8.
The application for permission for the above shall be made
in the joint names of the eight companies and the Department
of Finance shall give one single permit complying with the
foregoing conditions.
8.
The allotment of Y3,000,000 and $30,000 shall be made by the
relative eight companies and the remittance and importation
shall be made by each company in accordance with the per-
mission granted in the joint names and within the limits
granted thereby.
The invoice price (print cost) of an ordinary picture shall
be lt cents per foot. As to colored pictures, it is necessary
to import several duplicates in addition to the original print,
because no duplicate of colored pictures can be made in Japan.
The print cost for one print to be regarded as the original
print will be included in the $30,000, but the print costs of
duplicates shall be not considered in this figure and each time
separate applications for permission for importation of dupli-
cates will be made and we wish to import such duplicates if
permitted.
Further we request the following:
1.
We wish to obtain permission for the re-shipment of pictures
whieh were once landed at Yokohama but were not imported and
imperted original prints from which duplicates were made in
Japan.
2.
We wish to obtain permission for remittanoes of amount borne
by prinoipal offices for which permission was granted until
February of this year but no permission granted thereafter.
3.
We wish to have ample supplies of raw film so that we will be
able to make duplieates in Japan.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
FINANCE DEPARTMENT
ORDINANCE NO. L. 1937
Article 1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4, Nos. 1 and 11 of
inance Department Ordinance No. 7, 1933, no transactions or acts
specified in Article 3 of the sadd Ordinance (including the carry-
ing out of future contracts for foreign exchange entered into prior
to the enforcement of this Ordinance ) may be performed for effect-
ing settlement necessary to the importation of goods into Japan or
localities in which Japanese currency is legal tender except with
the permission of the Minister of Finance, except in the following
cases:-
L. For performing transactions or acts the total value of
which for one month does not exceed an equivalent of
Y30,000; (Amended to read Y1,000,00 by Ordinance No. 23
on July 7, 1937). Subsequently revised to Y100.00 in
December 1937.
2.
For selling, or paying, or buying exchange in order to
pay, exchange under letters of credit acquired with
permission in accordance with the provisions of Article
& or acquired without permission in accordance with the
proviso of the said Article;
3.
When necessary for settling documentary bills for goods
the importation or shipment from abroad of whiohthas been
completed when this Ordinance came intd force.
4.
For carrying out future contracts for foreign exchange
entered into prior to the enforcement of this Ordinance
in order to settle documentary bills for goods shipped
from abroad within one week after the enforcement of this
Ordinance.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Article 4-(2) of Finance Department
Brdinance No. 1 of 1937
Article 4-(2) except with hermission of the Minister of
Finance no person may import goods into this country without a draft
for their value in whole or in part, nor import goods inte this
country without a draft in yen for their value in whole or in part,
whieh draft is addressed to this country, from a territory where
Japanese currancy is effective, except in the following casess
(1) Importation of goods relating to transactions or acts
necessary for the settlement of the price under Articles
1 - 4, for which permission was obtained.
(2) Importation of goods relating to transactions or acts
necessary for the settlement of the price under the pro-
visos of Articles 1 or 2, for which no permission is re-
quired.
(3) Importation of goods as samples or gifts or for the pur-
pose of exhibiting at an exposition.
(4) Importation of returned goods which were exported from
this country.
(5) mportation of goods for repairing.
(6) Importation of fish caught and loaded on a vessel which
sailed from this country.
(7) Importation of personal articles or house-removing
articles.
(8) Importation of goods necessary for governmental authorities.
(9) Except the foregoing cases, to import goods the value of
which do not exceed Y1,000 per month.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
ARTICLE 3 of Department of Finance
Order of 1933
Article 3.
Except with the permission of the Minister of Finance the follow-
ing transactions or acts may not be performed;-
1. The purchase, with Japanese currency as a consideration,
of foreign currency, foreign exchange or Yen exchange
drawn on localities where Japanese currency is legal
tender;
2. The sale of foreign exchange, with Japanese currency as
a consideration, to parties other than foreign exchange
banks or with the object of setting off the same against
exchange bought;
The sale and purchase, with foreign ourrency as a con-
sideration, of Yen exchange which is foreign exchange;
4.
The transaction or taking of (Japanese) currency, foreign
currency, cheques, bills, or notes or remittances to
foreign countries by any method not provided for by
Article 1 and other Numbers of this Article;
5.
Payments in localities where this Ordinance is in force
under instructions given abroad.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. 8. Ikda
October 1st 1938.
Your Excellency:
We beg to respectfully submit to your kind attention the follow-
ing brief resume of the status of the American Motion Picture Industry
in Japan.
Last year when the Government decided to prohibit the importation
of foreign motion pictures because of the China Incident, the American
Motion Picture Association of Japan, in formulating plans to continue
business during the emergency period without embarrassing in any way
the financial and economic situation of the Government, came to an
agreement with various members of the Finance Ministry after protracted
discussions. By this agreement, the members of the American Motion Pic-
ture Association, representing the eight major companies of the United
States, were permitted to import a limited number of pictures,
aggregating in total to the sum of Thirty Thousand Dollars ($30,000)
print cost and to remit to their respective head offices in New York
the royalties earned on these pictures and funds accumulated up to the
time permits were granted for remittances under this agreement, a total
sum amounting to Three Million Yen (Y3,000,000) under a deferred pay-
ment plan of three yeurs without interest.
The respeotive head offices in New York of the members of the
American Motion Picture Association of Japan accepted this plan after
which the agreement was definitely made with the Finance Ministry and
under date of August 10th, 1938, the American Motion Picture Assoo-
iation received an official document from the Finance Ministry, signed
by Mr. Kojiro Nakamura, head of the Exchange Bureau. This agreement
outlined in detail the entire arrangement.
Upon receipt of this agreement, the American Motion Picture
Association of Japan telegraphed to the respective head offices in New
York that the agreement was duly and officially consummated and would
go into effect within a few weeks after that date as we were officially
advised.
On the strength of this advice of the Finance Ministry, all
members of the American Motion Picture Association of Japan ordered a
considerable supply of pictures which have subsequently arrived at
Yokohama and the members have also obligated themselves to considerable
expense in preparation for the resumption of their business activities
in Japan.
On September 26th, 1938, permits were granted by the Finance
Ministry to remit the first installment of the Three Million Yen
(Y8,000,000) amounting to Yen Beven Hundred and Fifty Thousand (y750,000
in tetal for all members of the Association which remittances have al-
ready been made. However, no permits for the importation or pictures
have been received by the American Motion Picture Association, with the
exception of a negligible number of cartoons.
On Beptember 30th, the committee of the Association was officially
notified by the head of the Remittance Department and head of Section 1

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
of the Import Department that because of pressure brought by a
group of mall independent Japanese distributing companies which re-
quest that no importation of piotures should be permitted to the
members of the American Motion Picture Association until after some
arrangement had also been consummated with that group and that it
would be necessary to hold up indefinitely the permits for the im-
portation of piotures for the members of the American Motion Picture
Association until such time as the matter wouldtbe settled to the
satisfaction of the above-mentioned Japanese distributors. The
American Motion Picture Association of Japan believes that it is un-
fair and unjust to regard them in the same light as the group of
Japanese importers mentioned above. The majority of the Japanese
distributors of foreign pictures in Japan who comprise the above-
mentioned group, are newly organized companies, mostly during the
period of mergency and are importing only a negligible quantity of
very inferior product produced by insignificant American and European
producers.
On the other hand, the members of the American Motion Picture
Association of Japan represent the eight biggest motion picture com-
panies in the United States and have been acclaimed as the leading
factors of Motion Picture Industry throughout the world. The members
of the American Motion Picture Association represent a very powerful
force of public opinion in the United States as well as throughout
the world, having at their coumand tremendous resources and are pro-
ducing piotures not only for amusement but for cultural purposes, as
well as for purposes of dissemination of newsreel pictures.
As the notice given to the committee of the Association by the
Department heads of the Remittance and Import Sections of the Finance
Ministry clearly indicates that te entire agreement between the
Amerioan Motion Picture ssociation of Japan and the Finance Ministry
may be nullified, the American Motion Picture Association therefore
appeals to Your Excellenoy, in the name of justice and fair-play of
our cause which is bound up with the spirit of the promotion of
friendly relations between Japan and the United States. The American
Motion Picture Association feels that it will be a matter of great
regret if the agreement once approved by the Government may be abro-
gated. This may result in misunderstood conception on the part of
the American people, of the true desires of the Japanese overnment
and may affect the bonds of friendship now existing.
The American Motion Picture Association desires to bring to Your
Bxcellenoy's attention the fact that immediately upon the conclusion
of the agreement, two members of the Association have left for the
United States who were instructed by the Association to recommend and
prevail upon the respective executives of the members of the Assoc-
iation in New York to discontinue the very unfavorable propaganda
whieh is being disseminated through the activities of newsreels in
the United States.
The Association therefore hopes that Your Exeellency will realis
the serioumess of the issue involved, and give this matter your kind
and personal attention.
Most respectfully yours,
American Motion Pioture Association of
Chairmam
Japan.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
crisial translation
THE REGULATIONS CONCERNING
THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE
MOTION PICTURE LAW.
Article l. Persons who intend to obtain a permit for motion picture
production business under the provisions of Article 2,
Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall file the Applica-
tion for a permit in triplicate, stating therein the
particulars mentioned hereunder to the Home Minister and
the Education Minister through the office of the
prefectural governor competent over the territory where
the prineipal office of the motion picture production
business concerned exists (in the prefecture of Tokyo,
the Director of the Metropolitan Police Board, same
context following):-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Scope of business;
3. The place where the motion picture studio exists;
4. The structure, installations and equipment of
the motion picture studio:-
A. Entire plan of the construction (to attach
the drawings);
B. Construction of the building, installations
and equipments employed for photographing,
sound recording, developing, printing, projecting
and storing (to attach the drawings);
C. The kinds and number of cameras, recording
and printing machines;
D. Electric installations (to attach drawings).
5. The kinds of motion pictures to be produced;
6. Quantity of motion pioture prints to be produced in a y
7. Number of employees and their respective kinds of work;
8. The time when the business is to be commenced.
To the Application for a permit of the preceding paragraph
shall the prospectus of industry and the tentative state-
ment of profit and loss account be attached.
When the party intends to alter the particulars of Mo.2,
Nos, No.4, A and/or B, No.5 or No.8 of Para. 1 hereof,
he shall obtain the permission of the Home Minister and
Education Minister, through the office of the prefeetural
governor, submitting the reasons for alteration in accor-
dance with the example of Para.l hereof.
When the particulars of No.1 of Para. 1 hereof have beem
altered, the notification in duplicate shall be without
delay seht in to the Home Minister and Education Minister
through the office of the prefectural governor according
to the provisions of Para. 1 hereof.
Article 2.
Persoms who intemd to obtain a permit for the motiom
pieture distributiom as provided for in Article 2, Pame.1
of the Motion Ficture Law, shall submit an application in

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
triplicate stating therein the matters hereunder mentioned
to the Home Minister and the Education Minister through
the office of the prefectural govermor competent for the
place where the prineipal office of the motiom picture
distribution existst-
1. Full names and domicile.
2. The place where a detached or otherwise
distribution office exists;
5. Territory for distribution;
4. Methods and ways of distribution;
5. Kinds of motion pictures to be distributed;
6. Quantity of motion pictures proposed to be
distributed within à period of one year;
7. The time when business will be commenced.
The prospectus for promoting the business and the tenta-
tive statement of the profit and loss account shall be
attached to the Application of the preceding paragraph.
When the particulars of No.5 and/or No.7 of Para. 1
hereof are to be altered, permission therefor shall be
applied for, stating the reason thereof in accordance with
the examples set forth in Para. 1 hereof, to the Home
Minister and the Education Minister through the office of
the prefectural governor. When the particulars of No.1
to No. 4 of Para. 1 hereof have been altered, notification
thereof in duplicate shall be sent in without delay to the
Home Minister and the Education Minister through the
office of the prefectural governor in accordance with the
provisions of Para. 1 hereof.
Article 8.
When motion picture producers or motion picture distri-
butors have commenced or abolished the business, notifica-
tion thereof in duplicate shall be sent in without delay
to the Home Minister and the Edueation Minister through
the office of the prefectural governor in accordance with
the provisions of Article 1, Para.1 of of Para. 1 of the
preceding Article as the case may be, same rule applying
to the case where business will be ceased for a period of
not less than six months.
Article 4.
In the event the motion picture producer or the motiom
picture distributor died and the inheritance took place,
the successor shall send in the notification in duplieate,
within a period of two months therefrom, together with the
exemplification of the family register to the Home
Minister and the Education Minister through the office of
the prefectural governor in accordance with the provisions
of Article 1, Para. 1, or of Article 2, Para. 1, as the
case may be.
Artiele 5.
The motion picture producers and the motion picture
distributors shall, on or before the end of February for
each and every year, send in the notification in duplieate
mentioning therein the kinds and such other particulars
for the motion piotures that have been produeed and/or
distributed during the year preseding in accordance with
the Form No.1 to the Home Minister and the Edueation Minis

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Article 6.
The kinds of work are designated in accordance with
the provisions of Article'5 of the Motion Picture Law
as follows:
1. Representation;
2. Performance;
8. Photographing.
Artiale 7.
Persons who intend to be registered in accordance with the
provisions of Article 5 of the Motion Picture Law shall file
the Application for registration stating therein the parti-
culars hereundermentioned to the Home Minister.
1. Full name, domicile, vocational name and date of birth.
2. Kind of work.
In the Application for registration of the preceding para-
graph shall the papers hereundermentioned be attachedi
1. Curriculum Vitae;
2. Certificate of Talent issued by the person
designated by the Home Minister;
8. Paper in proof of approval of the parent or
of one who supervises in lieu of a parent in
case of a minor, that of husband in case of a
wife, or paper stating the opinion of the school-master
on the person while in course of school education.
When the particulars mentioned in No.l of Para. 1
hereof have changed, the notification thereof shall be
sent in to the Home Minister.
Article 8.
When the Home Minister has effected the registration in
accordanee with the provisions of Article 5 of the Motion
Picture Law, the Certificate of Registration made after
the example of Form No.& shall be delivered.
If the person who took delivery of the certificate of
registration according to the rule of the foregoing
paragraph has changed the name, vocational or otherwise,
or has had the same lost or destroyed, the rewriting or
re-issuance thereof may be applied for to the Home Minister.
Article 9.
Person whose vocation has been suspended or whose registra-
tion of voeation has been cancelled in accordance with the
provisioms of Article 6 of the Motion Picture Law, shall,
without delay, return to the Home Minister the Certificate
of Registration obtained in accordance with the provisions
of Para. 1 of the preceding Article. Upon expiration of the
term of suspension of the vocation shall the Certifieate
of Registration be returned again to the party.
Article 10.
When the person who was registered according to the rules
of Article 5 of the Motion Picture Law has abolished the
vocation or died, the party, in ease of abolishment, and
the head or a member of the family, in mmse of death, shall
without delay send im the notifieation thereof to the Home
Minister.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
sle 11. In the ease where a motion picture producer intends to
employ a minor under fourteen of age in the work designa-
ted in Article 6, the notification shall be sent in to
the Home Minister stating the particulars hereundermentioned:
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Full name, vocational name, domicile and
date of birth of the persons to be engaged;
8. The respective kind of work to be employed in.
To the notification of the preeeding paragraph shall
the hereundermentioned papers be attached:
1. Certificate of Health of a physician in proof
of the health being suitable for work;
2. Paper in proof of approval of the parent or of
a person supervising in lieu of a parent of the
person to be employed or a paper stating the
opinion of the school-master in case of the person
to be employed being in the course of school education.
Article l2. Only in the cases mentioned hereunder may the motion
picture producer employ those who have not yet been
registered in accordance with the rules of Article 5
of the Motion Picture Law in the kinds of work
specified in Article 6:
1. When they are temporarily taken to the work on speci-
fied occasion of production of the motion picture.
Article 18. The motion picture producer shall not allow the minor
under sixteen of age and the girls to be engaged in
the production of motion pictures during the interval
of time as between 10 o'clock p.m. and 5 o'clock a.m.,
provided, however, that when temporarily necessary, this
rule shall not prevail if the permission of the chief of
the police station governing the place of work they are
engaged in has been therefor obtained.
Article 14. The kind of motion pioture is designated as hereunder
mentioned in accordance with the provisions of Article 9,
Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Lawi-
1. Dramatic motion picture.
Article 15. When the motion picture producer intends to notify the
particulars in accordance with the provisions of the
former part of Article 9, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture
Law, the notification containing the following particulars
shall be sent in to the Home Minister ten days ahead of
the day when the photographing is commemced:
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture;
S. Mame of the author of the original work and of the
adapter;
4. Mame of the representer and of the prineipal performer
(actor))
5. Substance of the Motion Picture (mention shall be made
according to the playbook and two copies thereof attack

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
6. The time to commence photographing and to
finish the productionj
The Home Minister may, when deemed necessary, demand
the production of the paper in proof of the copyright of
the motion picture.
When the motion picture producer has altered the parti-
culars of No.2 to Mo.4 or the principal part of No.5
of Para. 1 hereof, notification thereof shall be sent in
to the Home Minister on each oecasion of such alteration
in acoordance with the provisions of the latter part of
Article 9, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law.
Article l6. The selection and recommendation of motion pictures pro-
vided for in Article l0 of the Motion Picture Law shall be
exercised in accordance with the following criterion:
1. Recommendation;
2. Awarding a prize;
The prize of No.& of the preceding paragraph shall be
awarded to the producer in respect of such picture as has beer
considered to be particularly superior being selected from
among those to which the Education Minister has awarded Recom
mendation in accordance with No.l of the same paragraph.
Article 17. The owmer of the motion picture which received the Recom-
mendation of the preceding Article may submit the playbook
of that motion picture with the seal-certifying-passage-of-
censorship of the Form No.8 being affixed thereon to the
Education Minister and have the seal-certifying-receipt-of-
recommendation of the Form No.3 affixed thereon.
Article 18. When the Education Minister orders to produce the motion
picture print in accordance with the provisions of
Àrticle il of the Motion Picture Law, necessary particu-
lars such as the title of the motion picture, the term
for production and the length of the period of production
etc., shall be notified to the owmer thereof.
If the owner of the motion picture print of the preceding
paragraph is unable to produce the print according to the
notification of the preceding paragraph, he shall submit,
without delay, a notifioation stating the reason therefor
to the Education Minister.
Article lo. What is referred to as foreign motion pictures in the Motion
Picture Law shall be those falling within the purview of
either of the pictures mentioned hereunder:
1. Whe motion pictures produced in a foreign country,provided
however, that those motion pictures whieh have been produd
by the subjects of the Japanese Empire or by the corporati
orgamised under the laws of the Japanese Empire and of whi
the subject of the Japanese Empire being the primeipal re-
presenter, performer and/or cameraman and of whose title
and/or the sound reproduction being not principally forei
language shall be excluded)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
iole 20. The motion picture distributors shall not distribute
foreign dramatic motion pictures in excess of the quantity
allotted by the Home Minister.
The allotment of the preceding paragraph shall be effected
in respect of dramatic motion piotures proposed to be
distributed within the next following year, provided,
however, that as to the person who wishes to distribute
foreign pictures afresh the allotment shall be effected
with respect to such quantity as are proposed to be
distributed within that particular year.
Article 21.
When the motion picture distributors intend to receive
the allotment in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding Article, an Application shail be filed to the
Home Minister on or before the 3lst October each year.
In the case of the proviso to the preceding Article or
when there is special cause, the motion picture distribu-
tor shall be allowed to file the Application of the
preceding paragraph at any time, limitation of the term
of the preceding paragraph notwithstanding.
Artiole 22.
The following particulars shall be mentioned in the
Application of the preceding Article:
1. Full name and domicile.
2. Quantity of the foreign motion pictures proposed
to be distributed.
The following papers shall be attached to the Application
of the preceding paragraph:
1. Protocol prepared according to the Form No.4 with res-
pect to the dramatic motion pictures which have been dis-
tributed within the period of three years ahead of the
month preceding to the month in which the Application
is filed.
2. Protocols prepared according to the Form No.5 with
respect to the motion pictures which have been exported
within the period of one year ahead of the month preced-
ing to the month in which the Application is filed.
Article s. The Home Minister may, when deemed necessary, order the
alteration of the quantity that has been allotted in
accordance with the provisions of Article 20.
Article 24. Persons who intend to receive the censorship mentioned
1n Article 13, Para. 1 of the Motiom Picture Law shall
file the Applicatiom to the Home Minister, stating therein
the particulars mentioned hereunder together with the
print to be censored and a copy of the play-booki-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture;
3. Full name and domichle of the producer;
4. Mumber of reels and length;
5. Proposed date for export,
6. Object of expert;

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-7
7. Port of shipment and the destination.
8. Full name and domicile of the consigmee.
As for news-reels for which there is mo time for receiving
the censorship of the Home Minister, censorship may as
well be received by filing the Application, in accordance
with the example of the preceding paragraph, to the pre-
fectural governor of the place of production or of the
port of shipment.
When deemed necessary, the censorship authorities may
demand the production of a paper in proof of copy right
of the motiom picture.
Article 85.
Persons who intend to receive the censorship mentioned
in Article 14, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall
file the application in duplicate to the Home Minister,
stating therein the particulars mentioned hereunder,
together with the prints to be censored and three copies
of play-book (in case censorship is applied for the
duplicate of motion picture within a period of not
exceeding three years as after the original print thereof
having passed the censorship, one copy of the play-book
will be enough for the purpose):
1. Full name and domicile.
2. Title of the motion picture (in case of a foreign
motion picture, the original titles and its transla-
tion shall both be mentioned);
3. Full name and domicile of the producer;
4. Number of reels and length;
5. As for a dramatie motion picture, the date of the
notification of the provisions of Article 9, Para. 1
of the motion picture law.
As for newsreels for which there is no time for receiving
the censorship of the Home Minister, censorship may as
well be received by applying to the prefectural governor
of the place of exhibition in accordance with the example
of the preceding paragraph.
Provisions of Para. 3 of the preceding Article shall
apply to the cases of the foregoing two paragraphs
with necessary modifications:
Artiele 26.
The motion picture which was censored in accordance with
the provisions of Article 13, Para. 1 of the Motion
Pieture Law shall be dealt with as disqualified if it falls
within the purview of any one of the following numbers:-
1. Pictures that are calculated to dehase the digmity of the
Imperial Household or to spoil the prestige of the Empire
2. Pietures that are calculated to be prejudicial to the
interest of the Empire from either politiocal, military,
diplomatic or economic view points or otherwise;
S. Fictures that are calculated to give rise to misunder-
standing as to the national culture;
4. Piotures the art, technique, or techniealities of
production of whioh are particularly inferior;

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
5. Pictures that are otherwise unsuitable for export.
Artiole 27.
In case where motion pictures that have been censored in
accordance with the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1 of
the Motiom Picture Law fall ithin the purview of any of
the following numbers, they shall fail to be qualifieds-
1. Pictures that are calculated to debase the dignity of the
Imperial Household or to spoil the prestige of the Empire;
2. Piotures that are calculated to propagade the ideology
in defiance of the Imperial Constitution!
3. Pictures that are calculated to be impedimental from
the political or military, diplomatic or economical points
of view and/or the view point of public interest.
4. Piatures that are calculated to defy the good manners
or to spoil the national moral;
5. Pictures that are calculated to be especially detrimental
to the purity of the national language;
6. Pictures the art, technique or technicalities of produo-
tion of which is particularly inferior;
7. Pictures that are calculated to otherwise retard the
progress of the national culture.
Article 28.
As for the pictures which passed the censorship, the Censor-
ship-passage-certificate as per the Form No. 6 shall be
given and the Seal-of-Passage and mark and number be
affixed on the motion picture print with respect to those
covered under the Application of the provisions of Article
24 and the Seal-of-Passage and mark and mumber as per the
Form No.7 shall be affixed on the motion picture print
and Seal-of-Passage as per the Form No.8 on the playbook
with respect to those covered under the Applieation of
the provisions of Article 25, provided, however, that,
as for those which passed the censorship under the
provisions of Article 24, Para. & and of Article 25,
Para. &, the Seal-of-Passage and mark and number to be
otherwise affixed on the motion picture print may well
be omitted.
Artiole 29.
The passage of censorship of Article 13, Para.1 of the
Motion Picture Law shall be valid for a period of three
months, and the passage of censorship of Article 14,
Para. 1 of the same Law for a period of three years,
provided, however, that the passage of censorship
exercised by the prefectural governor in accordance with
the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1 of the same Law
shali be valid for a period of three months and the
validity thereof shall not prevail in other prefecture.
Artiole 80.
In cases where special circumstances exist, the censorship
authorities may, in respect of the motion pictures cen-
sored, designate the term of validity for the passage of
censorship otherwise than that provided for in the pre-
ceding Article or may impose territorial or other
limitation or restriotion.
When the censorship authorities have imposed the limita-
tiom or restrictiom mentioned in the preceding paragraph,
statement to such effect shall be entered im the Censorship-
passage-certificate in respect of ome applied for im

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
accordance with the provisions of Article 24 and in the
play-book in respect of one applied for in accordance with
the provisions of Article 24 and in the play-book in
respect of one applied for in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 25 as the case may be.
Artiele 81. When the Home Minister has effected the dispositions
provided for in Article 1s, Para. & of the Motion Picture Law,
the Censorship-passage-certificate shall be caused to be
returned to the authorities and the seal and mark and number
affixed in proof of passage on the print itself be cancelled
in the case of prohibition, and a statement to such effect be
entered in the censorship-passage-certificate in the case of
limitation.
Article 32.
When the motion picture which passed the censorship falls
within the purview of any e of the following mumbers,
re-affixation of the Seal-of-Passage or of mark and
number or re-issuance of the Censorship-passage-certificate
may be applied for to the censorship authorities concerned
of that particular motion picture:-
1. When the Seal-of-Passage or mark and number affixed on
the motion picture print has been destroyed;
2. When the playbook on which the Seal-of-Passage had been
affixed has been lost or destroyed;
8. When the Censorship-passage-certificate has been lost
or destroyed.
In the case of No.& of the preceding Paragraph, a further
copy of playbook shall be produced.
Article 88.
When it is desired that the particulars of No.& or No.7 of
Article 24, Para.1 or of No.2 of Article 25, Para.1 be altered
with respect to the motion picture that has passed the censor-
ship, permission therefor shall be obtained from the censorship
authorities concerned of that particular motion picture.
Article 84.
The censorship authorities shall charge the following fees
with respect to the censorship in accoriance with the provisions
of Article l4, Para.1 of the Motion Picture Law:-
1. As for the motion picture which is subject to censorship
of the Home Minister, one sen per metre or any fraction,
and one sen and five rin per one metre or fraction with
respect to a foreign motion picture;
8. As for the duplicate of the motion picture which received
the censorship of the Home Minister being applied for cen-
sorship by the one and same applicant and as for those for
whose censorship the application is filed within an inter-
val of not over six months as after the expiration of the
term of validity of the passage of censorship, five rin
per one metre or any fraction, and seven rin and five mo
per one metre or fraction for a foreign motion picture;
S. Ome sen per three metres or fraction as for the motion
pieture whieh reeeived the censorship of the prefectural
governor.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-10
When deemed necessary from the peins of view of public
imteress, the censorship authorities may exempt the fees.
The fees provided for in Para.l hereof shall be paid in
revenue stamps by affixing on the Application for censorship.
Artiele 35. The motion pictures that shall be caused so be exhibited
in accordance with she provisions of Article 15, Para.1
of the Motion Picture Law shall be such as have been
sanctioned by the Education Minister to be contribusory
toward fostering national spirit or enlightening and
promoting the intellect and talent of the nationals, with
the exception of dramatic motion pictures.
The motion picture exhibitors shall exhibit a quantity of
250 metres or more, at a time, of the motion picture that
has been sanctioned in accordance with the provisions of
the preceding paragraph, provided, however, that this rule
shall not prevail in the case where the motion picture
exhibitor exhibits the prints in accordance with the
provisions of Article 15, Para. 2 and also where the
motion picture which has been awarded with Recommendation
under the rule of Article 16 are exhibited.
Article 36. Persons who intend to obtain sanctions according to the
provisions of Para. 1 of the preceding Article shall file
to the Education Minister the Application for sanction
stating therein the particulars mentioned in No.1 so No.4
of Article 25, Para.i together with the print of motion
picture calling for the sanction and two copies of play-book
(one of the two copies containing the Seal-of-Passage of the
FormNo.8).
Article 37. When the sanction has been rendered in accordance with the
provisions of Article 35, Para.1, the Seal-of-Sanction
of the Form No.9 shall be affixed on the play-book of the
very motion picture print on which the Seal-of-Passage of
the Form No.8 is being affixed.
Article 88. The term of validity of the sanction of Article 35, Para.1
shall be one and the same as the term of validity granted for
the motion picture isself upon passage of the censorship.
Article 39. The Home Minister may, in cases of special circumstances,
cancel the sancsion gransed under Arsicle 35, Para. 1.
When the sanction has been cancelled in accordance with
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Seal-of-
Sanction affixed on the playbook of the very motion picture
shall be struck out by erasure.
Article 40. When the Seal-of-Passage has been re-affixed on the play-
beok in aecordance with the provisions of Article 32,
Para.1 with respect to the motion picture which received
the sancsion of Article 35, Para. i, the playbook
concerned shall be without delay produeed before the
Edueation Minister applying for re-affixation of the
Seal-of-Sanction of She form Wo.9.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
41. When the prefectural governor intends to cause the
motion picture to be exhibited in accordance with the
provisions of Article 15, Para. 2 of the Motion Picture
Law, the period of such exhibition shall be fixed as
within one week at a sime, provided, however, that such
exhibition shall not be of a period put together in excess
of six weeks per year for one cinemasographic theatre.
Article 42. The motion picture exhibitor who operates a permanent cinema-
tographic sheatre shall not exhibit dramatic foreign motion
pictures in excess of fifty prints as aggregated for the
whole year and in respect of a certain cinematographic theatre.
In case where the exhibitor of the preceding paragraph ex-
hibits a dramasic foreign motion picture that has been played
at the same theatre of his, such picture shall not be calcula-
ted into the number of prints of the preceding paragraph.
In the event an exhibitor commences the exhibition of
dramatic foreign motion pictures afresh in the middle of
the year, the number of prints provided for in Para. 1
hereof shall be computed by the number of months.
Article 43. The motion picture exhibitor who operates a permanent
cinematographic theatre shall not have the exhibition
lasting beyond three hours at a time, provided, however,
that, in case where the exhibition is effected in accord-
ance with the providions of Article 15, Para. 2 of the
Motion Picture Law, extension shall be allowed within a
length of time not exceeding thirty minutes.
Artiele 44. The motion picture exhibitor or any other person who
exhibits a motion picture otherwise shan for business shall
not have the prints projected on the screen at a speed of
over 27.4 metres a minuse.
Arsicle: 45. The motion picture exhibitor or the one who exhibits the
motion picture otherwise than for business shall mot be
allowed to exhibit unless with the projector equipped with
the automatic safety-switches.
Arsicle 46. The motion picture exhibisor or one who exhibits the motion
pictures otherwise than for business, shall not allow
minors under fourteen of age to be admitted into the place
of exhibision wish the exception of the case where the
picsures played are exclusively shose passed by censorship
in accordance with the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1
and recognized by the Education Minister (in case of a
picture passed the censorship of the prefectural governor,
the governor concerned) so be harmless fromminor's educa-
tional peins of view, previded, however, that this rule
shall not prevail where the minors under six of age are in
company wish a guardian.
Article 47. When she recognisiom of the preceding Arsicle has been
gramsed, the Seal-of-Recognition after the Form No.10
shall be afrixed on the playbook containing the Seal-of-
Passage ofthe Form No.8, provided, however, that in the

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
22-
case of the prefecsural governor's recognition such seal
may well be omitted.
The provisions of Article 38 to Article 40 shall apply to
the recognition of the preceding Article with necessary
modificasions.
Arsicle 48.
The motion picture exhibitor or the one who exhibits the
motion picture otherwise than for business shall nos allow
to operate the projection machine by other than those with
projection license granted by the prefectural governor,
provided, however, that this rle shall not prevail where
the film concerned is non-inflammable. The motion picture
exhibitor or one who exhibits the motion picture other-
wise than for business shall install two sets of projec-
tion machines, and, in case the exhibition lasts as a rule
six homrs consecutively, three, and in case of less hours,
two, projection licensees shall be put to work.
Article 49.
In case the full name and domicile shall be entered in
the Application or in the Notification according to the
provisions of this Ordinance, the trade-name, the address
of the principal office, the full name and domicile of the
representative thereof shall be entered in the case of the
party concerned being a juridical person.
Article 50.
Persons who contravened the rules of Article 3; 4; 11,
Para. 1 and of Article 33, shall be subject to a minor fine.
Article 51.
In case his agents, head of his family, member of his family
1mmate, employee or wbsoever works under him shall have com-
mitted an act falling within the purview of the provisions
of the preceding Article, the motion picture producer,distri.
butor or one owning the motion picture that has passed the
censorship shall not be exempt from punishment on the excuse
that this particuar act had not been in accordance with his
direction.
Arsicle 52.
The criminal provisions of Article 50 shall be applied to
the member of the board, the director or any other officer
who executes the affairs in case the offender is a
juridical person, and so the legal agent in case the
offender is a minor or a person incompetent of managing
the property, provided, however, that this rle shall not
prevail where the minor concerned is legally competens
same as an adult in respect of the business concerned.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
Article 53.
This Ordinance shall be enforced as from she day on which
the Motion Picture Law takes effect, provided, however,
that the provisions of Article 20, Ársicle 42 and Arsicle
46 shall take effect as from January 1st 1940, those of
Arsicle 35, Para. £ as from Jamuary 1st 1940 so far as the
cisies of Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka, Yokohama, Kobe and Magoya
are comcerned and as from July 1st 1940 so far as amy
cther cities, towns or villages are concermed, and that the
provisions of Article 45 and a shelr 

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
-13-
The Home office Ordinances mentioned hereunder shall be abolis
1. "The mosion picture film censorship regulations":
the Home Ofrice Ordinance No.10 of May 1925;
2. "he expors motion picture film regulations": the
Home Office Ordinance No.63 of October 1985;
3. "In the matter concerning the nours of exhibition
of the motion picture and the limitation to the
meterage of the print": the Home Office Ordinance No.55
of December 1937.
Ariele 55. Persons engaging in the business according to the provi-
sions of Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions to the
Motion Picture Law shall, within one month as from the day
of enfercement of this Ordinance, send in the notification
in duplicate, stating therein the particulars of Bo.l to
Mo.3 and No.5 bf Article 1, Para. 1 in respect of the
mosion pteture producers; and the particulars of No.l to
Mo.5 amd Mo.5 of Article 2, Para. i in respect of the
motion picsure distributors, to the Home Minister and the
Educatiominister through the office of the prefectural
governor mentioned in Article 1, Para. 1 or Article 2,
Para. 1 as the case may be, provided, however, that this
rule shall not prevail where the Application for the permit
has been meanwhile filed in accordance with the provisions
of Article 1 or Article 2 as the case may be.
Article 56. The term of validity of the censored films that have been
censored by the administrative authorities prior to enforce-
ment of this ordinance or the film which passed the
inspeetion for export shall be the remainder of the term
of validity as governed by the old rules.
Ars1ele 57. The motion picture exhibitors shall not be allowed to
exhibit motion pictures, witin the interval of six months
as from the time of the provisions of Arsicle 35, Para. 2
saking effecs, with the exception of the number of days
equivalent to fifty percent of the playdays of each month,
as according to the rules of the said paragraph.
In eases where she motior cture exhibitors exhibit films
thas have passed the cen
ip of the adminimsrasive
aumsosisies prior sp shi
or such duplicates shere
years as from the time when this
Article 58. In cases where censored films that bave passed she censor-
excepsimt or the case where the Baucation Minister regards
nos
--0000:00--

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
January 5 1940
In reply refer to
FE 894.4061 Mot1on Pictures/32
894.4061
My dear Colonel Herron:
The receipt 1s acknowledged of yeur letter of
December 14, 1939, with which you enclose a copy of a
letter of date November 16, 1939, addressed by the
American Motion Picture Association of Japan to Ambassa-
MOTiON
dor Grew, in which there are set forth three matters
concerning which you would like to have representations
made to the Japanese Government. You ask that appro-
PiCTUI
priate instruotions be forwarded to Ambaseador Grew in
regard to these matters.
With reference to the first request set forth in
RE
that letter, namely, that the Embassy aid the American
S
/32
Motion Picture Association of Japan in 1ts efforts to
persuade the Japanese Ministry of Finance, on the basis
of a letter of date August 10, 1938, from an official
of the Ministry of Finance, to permit the importation
of
Colonel Frederiok L. Herron,
Foreign Manager, Motion Picture
Producers and Distributors of America, Inc.,
F/N
28 West Forty-fourth Street,
New York, New York.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
2
of films into Japan and the remittance of funds to the
United States, Ambassador Grew has informed the Depart-
ment of his intention to make an informal inquiry at
the Japanese Foreign Office in regard to the nature of
the diffioulties which have arisen between the Associa-
tion and the Japanese Ministry of Finance.
With regard to the second request made of Ambassa-
dor Grew in connection with the allocation of quotas by
foreign countries, it is noted from your letter that
Amerioan distributors have thus far been allowed a very
large proportion of the total imports of foreign films
into Japan and that there are no indications that
American films have been discriminated against or are
likely to be discriminated against in comparison with
other foreign films. You may be assured that the De-
partment endeavors to guard vigilantly against the im-
position of discriminatory quotas or other restriotions
against American commerce.
With regard to the third request, it has not been
the poliey of this Government to protest as a matter of
Government right the imposition by a foreign country of
non-disoriminatory exchange restrictions. However, the
Department instructed the Amerioan Embassy in Japan,
shortly after the institution of exohange control by the
Japanose

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.91)
-3-
Japanese Government, to take whatever informal astion
it might consider appropriate toward causing the govern-
mental authorities there to make exchange evailable for
the paying ofr of frozen commeroial indebtedness. In
the present instance the Department is asking the Embassy
in Tokyo to bring informally to the attention of the
appropriate authorities in Japan the fact that funds
totaling yen four million, owned by members of the Ameri-
can Motion Pioture Association in Japan, have acoumulated
in Japan and that the inability of the owners of these
funds to obtain permits to remit these funds to the United
States 1s causing them considerable embarrassment.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Bearetary of State:
George B. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
Diviaia
astem 
CR
1940
2
3 1940 P
som
JAN
4 1940
gone
Jus
EA
PA/A
IM
FE JMJ: JPS HES
FE
Faw
1227
Skit

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
/32
.1869
1January 5 1940
The Honorable
Joseph C, Grew,
894.4061 MOTiON PiCTURES/32
Ameriean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
Reference is made to your despatch no. 4259,
November 20, entitled "Diffioulties Encountered by the
Amerioan Motion Pioture Association of Japan".
The Department is in receipt of a letter from the
Motion Pioture Producers & Distributors of America, Inc.,
28 West Forty-fourth Street, New York, with whieh there
is enolosed a copy of a communication to you which appears
as enclosure no. 2 to the despateh under referenee. The
request is made of the Department that there be forwarded
to you appropriate instructions in regard to the proteo-
tion of the interests of the American Motion Bioture
Association of Japan. A copy of the Department's reply
in the premises is enelosed for your information and
guidance. You will note the statement in this letter
that the Department has asked you to bring informally to
the attention of the appropriate authorities the faet
that funds totaling yen four million, owned by members of
F/N
the Ameriean Motion Pioture Association of Japam, have
aeeuulated in Japen and that the inability of the 

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.89)
of shese funds to obtain exahange permits is causimg
them considerable embarrassment.
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
G. S' Messersmith
Enelosure:
Letter to Motion Pioture
Produeers & Distributors
of Ameriea, Inc.
A true cupy of
the signe 
nal.
h
EA
IN
PA/R
KS
joiw
12420
SH
JAN 3 1940 
JAN 4 1940

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC
3
28 WEr
RECEIVED
BIVISION OF
JI PARTMENT OF STATE
INTERNATU
WILL H. HAYS
PRESIDENT
1940 JAN 4 PM 2
CARL 2. MILLIKEN
SECRETARY
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
DIVISIUn o
January 3, 1940
Your ReDeMMImEAT!ONS
IN 894.40D  Pictures/33
Division of
41940
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JAN
JAN 8- 1940
MR. ME88ER8MITH
Hon. George S. Messersmith
Departreent of State
Assistant Secretary of State
94.4061 MOTION PICTURES
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I appreciate very much indeed your letter of December 29
relative to Japanese officials refusing to license for exhibi-
tion the RKo picture "Gunga Din." I know that the company,
too, will appreciate the efforts of the Embassy at Tokyo, and
for that reason I am taking the liberty of sharing your
letter with Mr. George J. Schaefer, President of RKO Radio
Pictures, Inc.
With kindest personal regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
JAN1040
F
BA

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.87)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1/15/40
Nottornheck
that he had hland from Tokyo that
Umbassador Treco thas awaitesy
twhethew instructious had hean or
Waued he venh. I tald hiin that
a draft instruc tron ras under
he seal today or tomarrar.
Colonel 7terion then asted
that I teliphone him in nerv
york when the instriction gaee
ach.
Jong

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.95)
1985
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
CK
GRAY
Tokyo
13 1940
Dated January 11, 1940
4061 MOTION PICTURES/35
Rec'd 7:11 a.m.
P91. wo1 Mon P
Telegiun
Division of
Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
to Aodleyo
Washington
Departmeat St
14, Jcnucry 11, 4 p.m.
31
dEspatch
ReferencE Embassy's/4259 NovEmber 2, 1939.
AmErican
Motion PicturE Associction's difficulties.
ThE Embessy has made four informal inquiries of the
Foreign OfficE in this matter with indefinite rEsults. s
WE arE under continual pressurE fron the American motion
picturE interests herE wE wculd wElconE Early instructions,
JAN 10 1940
preferably by cable.
GREW
PEG
BIVISION OF
MR. HORNBECK
INTERNATIONAL CON
JAN 151940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN1
DEPA
F/N

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
1986
PREPARING OPFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
ILLINDICATE WHETHER
ull rate
INight letter
Department:
Full rate
Washington, NAVAL RADIO
Day letter
praphrase befomm
Night letter
January 12, 1940
Charge to
AMEMBASSY,
DIVISION OF
16
COMMUNICATIONS
TOKYO (JAPANNEVTADPEIPING.
3 pm
20
Reference your 14, January 11, 4 p.m., and your des-
8
394.406
patch no. 4259, November 20, 1939.
Colonel'F. L. Herron, Foreign Manager of the Motion
Picture Producers and Distributors of America, Incorporated,
0
submitted to the Department on December 14, 1939 a copy
MOTi
of the letter which constitutes enclosure no. 2 of your
despatoh under reference and asked that you be appropriately
0
instructed. There was sent to you in the last pouch an
N
instruction embodying a suggestion that you bring to the
PiCTURES/35
attention of the appropriate officials of the Foreign
Office the embarrassment which the inability to obtain
exchange permits was 'causing members of the American
Motion Picture Association of Japan.
On January 3 Colonel Herron called at the Department
and informed us that the Japanese Government had limited
the entry of foreign films into Japan to a quota of 120
annually, normal imports being about twice this figure.
Colonel Herron urged that the Department make repre-
sentations to the Japanese Foreign Office asking that the
F/N
QUOTE agreemenT UNQUOTE mentioned in the despatch under
19
1-1602
U. S. GOVERNBENT PRINTING OPFICE

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.93)
1987
TELEGRAM SENT
MILL INDIGATE WHETHER
Full rate
Might letter
Department of State
Charge Depertment:
Full rate
-2
Washinglen,
Day letter
Night letter
Charge to
reference be not only carried out but extended. Colonel
Herron was told that considering the character of the QuoTE
agreement UNQUoTE in question, it was doubtful that any
action could be taken on that basis but that it mouid
might be
bracticable
2.7.11.
without reference to a previous QUOTE agreement UNQUOTE,
to obtain an enlargement of the quota. The Department has
now received a letter from Colonel Herron setting forth
facts in connection with the quota and asking that such
efforts be made.
that you/approach appropriate officials of the/Japanese/
Foreign Office in such manner as you may /consider/appro-
priate and inquire whether it/would not be/possible to/
enlarge the quota for Amerioan rilms, pointing out/that the
recent quota lallocation for foreign filma constitutes a
severe blow to the American rilm(industry and that accord-
ing to thel prinoipal American film companies concerned the
number of films allowed entry 1s so small that it will be
1mpossible for them to carry on their business in Japan 
and pay) their/overhead expenses.
Hall()
894,4061 Motion Piotures/35
uJ
19
FE: PMLY: HJN/MHP
1-100
PAIEIN
EAW

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
RTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
ERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
January 12, 1940
ar Mr. Burke:
The attached letter from
Colonel Herron concerns the
dirficulties encountered by the
fiim industry in Japan. Since
 has handled the previous, I
presume they should receive
this letter.
IN:FdeWolf:HGK

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
28 WEST 44TH STREET
RECEIVED
JIPARTMENT OF STATE
New York CiTY
FREDERICK L. HERRON
FOREIGN MANI94O JAN 10 P 101
BIVISION OF
January 9, 1940.
OIVISIUN OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
894.4061 ution Petare.
JAN 10 1940
Hon. George S. Messersmith,
MR. ME88ER8MITH
Assistant Secretary,
Department of State,
Divisig of
 ASTARS
4061 MOTiON PiCTURES/36
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Depertrnt Stat
Thanks very much for your letter of January 3rd
32
and your kindness in taking this matter up with the
American Ambassador in Tokio.
Since writing the Department on December l4th we
have received by cable the test of a new decree just
issued by the Japanese Government cutting down the
number of pictures allowed to be imported into that
country by our companies more than half, with allot-
ment to the Japanese distributors of a large number of
permits for the importation of foreign pictures as well
as allowing the Japanese exhibitors to import pictures
as well as the distributors.
Most sincerely,
JAN20140
FILHD
F/N

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.94)
791
FE
Voluntary
2 o Com
06
53L
894.4061 MOTiON PiCTURES/37
A/0
copy in in
21940
DEPAR
No.24
NEW REGULATIONS FOR MOTION PICTURES IN JAPAN
From
American Consul General
C. R. Gameron
Date of Completion: December, 5, 1939
Tokyo Consulate General
December 22, 1939
Date of Mailing:
JAN 2 2 1940
FTLJD
Encloeures:
1/ "Motion Picture Law
Enforcement Regulations".
Enforcement Ordinance".
F/N
File 840.6
CRC/b1c
Distribution:
Original and 4 copies to Department;
1 copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
TABLE
OF
CONTENTS
Page
References.
3
Resume.
3
Promulgation cf Regulations.......
4
Supplementary Ordinances....
4
Soope of Regulations.
5
Permits for Distributing Companies.....
5
Allotment of Pictures...
6
1938 Agreement.
6
Foreign Films Released in Japan....
7
American Pictures in Stock..
8
Pictures Requested for 1940.
8
Permits from Finance Ministry.
8
Limitation of Exhibition of Pictures....
9
Limitation of Program and Attendance...
9
German Pictures.
10
Censorship Provisions in Law.
10
Censorship Problem.....
11
Toho vs. Shochiku.
11

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
References
Reference is made to report from this office No. 34
entitled, "Motion Pictures in Japan", dated October 6,
1938, which dealt with the background and organization
of the motion picture industry in Japan, production as
well as distribution; and report No. 59 entitled, "Japan
Motion Picture Law", dated June 28, 1939, which gave the
text of Motion Picture Law No. 66, approved by the Diet
and promulgated on April 4, 1939, providing for the
stricter control by the Government of the production and
distribution of motion pictures.
Resumé
A new ordinance regulating motion picture importa-
tion, production, and dietribution in Japan was promul-
gated on September 26, 1939, the regulations as to
importation and dietribution affecting the eight American
companies which distribute pictures here. Such companies
are required to file with the Ministry of Home Affairs by
October 3l of each year applications for proposed importa-
tions during the coming year. After approval by the
Ministry of Home Affairs, approval of the Ministry of
Finance must be obtained to cover remittance for the con-
ventional value of 1-1/2 cents per running foot fixed by
the customs as the 1mport valuation. As yet, no approvals
of 1mportations for 1940 have been obtained.
Under the 1938 agreement with the Ministry of Finance,
about l00 American pictures were released in Japan during
1938 and a similar number during 1939. The new ordinance
limits the number of new foreign dramatic motion pictures
exhibited in each theater to 50 per annum besides news
reels

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
reels and cartoons. The new ordinance also limits the
length of programs to three hours. The struggle between
the Toho and Shochiku interests for the control of Japan-
ese picture production and market continues. The raw
film now available in Japan for making prints of motion
pictures is not very satisfactory and on account of the
small number of films which the American companies are
permitted to release, prorits are meager.
Promulgation of Regulations
The American motion picture distributors in Tokyo
awaited with considerable apprehension the promulgation
of the ordinance putting into force the provisions of the
Motion Picture Law covered by report No. 59. It was ant1-
cipated that several restrictions might be imposed, in-
cluding the control by Japanese nationals of a majority
of the capital stock of distributing companies, or even
the setting up of a near-monopoly. However, although the
new ordinance imposed various restrictions, it did not
embody either of the provisione mentioned. It appeared
as Joint Ministerial Ordinance No. 1 of the Ministries of
Home Affairs, Education, and Welfare, having been promul-
gated on September 26, 1939, and published in the Official
Gazette of the following day, Edition No. 3820 of Septem-
ber 27, 1939. An unofficial translation of this ordinance
1/
is attached (Enclosure No. 1) to this report.
Supplementary Ordinances
Moreover, this same edition of the Official Gazette
contained two other ordinances relating to the Motion
Picture Law. The first, Imperial Ordinance No. 667, of
September 26, 1939, fixed the date of October 1, 1939, as
the date upon which most of the provisions of the Motion
Picture

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Pioture Law of April 4, 1939, should go into effect.
The second, Imperial Ordinance No. 668, of the same
date, defined the motion picture manufacturing business
and the motion picture distributing business, and indi-
cated the minister referred to in the Motion Pioture Law
in various paragraphs which imposed certain duties upon
"the competent minister". An unofficial translation of
2/
Ordinance No. 668 1s attached (Enclosure No. 2) to th1s
report.
Scope of Regulations
The new regulations relate to both producing and
distributing companies. However, tne portion relating to
producing companies is of little interest to American
firms and, consequently, this report will be confined to
those features which affect the Amerioan distributing com-
panies here, of which there are eight organized into an
association called the American Motion Picture Association
of Tokyo.
Permits for Distributing Companies
Article 2 of Ordinance No. 1 requires persons or
firms desiring to obtain a permit for motion picture dis-
tribution to file application with the Minister of Home
Affairs and Minister of Education, giving full details
of such persons or companies. This permit is to be filed
through the Prefectural Governor, or in the case of Tokyo,
through the Metropolitan Police, which indeed has hereto-
fore been the government office to deal with the motion
picture companies in Tokyo. Article 5 of the ordinance
requires that before the end of February of each year,
a full account must be rendered to the same authorities
of the past year's business of the company oonoerned
(Interview No. 1).
Allotment

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
lotment of Piotures
Foreign pictures may be imported by any country
during any year only in the quantities allotted by the
Minister of Home Affairs. Article 21 of Ordinance No. 1
provides that each company shall file on or before Octo-
ber 31 of each year an application for the number of
motion pictures whioh it is desired to distribute during
the coming year. The American Motion Picture Association
of Tokyo has heretofore treated as a unit with the Japan-
ese authorities in regerd to the number of pictures to be
imported, obtaining a total of pictures which were allot-
ted by the Association members among themselves. The
American companies desired to continue the practice but
such plan was not approved by the authorities, who now
insist on dealing with each company individually (Inter-
view No. 2).
1938 Agreement
The negotiations carried out in 1938 as to importa-
tion of pictures and remission of frozen funds, and
especially the letter from the Minister of Finance of
August 10, 1938 (see report No. 34 cited ahove) contem-
plated the importation of $30,000 worth of films at 1-1/2
cents per running foot, that is two million running feet
of film. This would be 2o0 films more or less according
to the length of each. All these films were to have been
1mported before the end of l938 but, as a matter of faot,
permission to import only half of this amount was actually
obtained from the Ministry of Finance, the importation
being effected during the last months of 1938 and the
first months of 1939. During 1929 to date, permits were
obtained for the importation of only $5,000 worth of films,
making a total importation under the 1938 agreement of
about

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
$20,000 worth of f11m (Interview No. 2).
Foreign Films Released 1n Japan
The MOVIE TIMES 1s one of the best-known motion
picture magezines of Japan and each year on April 1
publishes a review of the motion pictures covering the
preceding year, giving the number of foreign pictures
released during that period by country of origin. The
following table has been compiled for the period 1935-38
from such data publisned in its edit1ons of 1936, 1937,
1938, and 1939. The data for the first eleven months of
1939 has not yet been published but was compiled, upon
request, by the staff of the MOVIE TIMES:
FOREIGN FILMS RELEASED IN JAPAN, 1935-1939
Number of Films Released
Country of Origin
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939(11 mos)
United States.....
239*
273
239
101
95
France....
21
21
10
6
Germany.
N
24
15
13
8
O
Great Britain......
T
15
12
14
7
Auetria.
2
3
Czechoslovakia......
AV
一
3
一
Italy
A
2
1
3
1
I
Switzerland.
L
1
A
Soviet Ruesia.
B
2
L
Hungary.
E
2
一
Spain.
1
Poland.
1
Total.
345**
341
295
143
117
*This figure (239) furnished by an American distributor.
**This figure (345) from the MOVIE TIMES.
NOTE: Films credited to the United States inolude a
Few British films distributed by American companies.
It

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8-
It should be noted that the importation of pictures
into Japan during a given period of time does not corre-
epond with the number released during that period, since
there are always a number of imported pictures in stook
awaiting censorship or a favorable opportunity for release.
American Piotures in Stock
There are at present in stock in Tokyo about sixteen
American pictures divided among the eight American com-
panies. This will be sufficient to supply the theaters
for only eight weeks at the rate of one picture per week
for each of the two principal chains of theaters.
Pictures Requested for 1940
When the various American companies made their appli-
cations on October 31, 1939, for permission to 1mport
pictures during 1940, each of the eight companies applied
for forty pictures, a total of 320 pictures. In addition,
1t is understood that Japanese distributors have applied
for 78 ptctures, making a grand total of 398. Inasmuch
as the American companies have been able to release only
about 100 p1ctures in 1938 and a similar number in 1939,
it is probable that they will be permitted to import alto-
gether not more than l00 pictures during the calendar
year l940, and possibly less, since the total of foreign
piotures, inoluding European, may be limited to loo (Inter-
view No. 2).
Permite from Finance Ministry
It should be borne in mind that the permission of the
Ministry of Home Affairs for the importation of pictures
is not final but that the whole matter has then to be taken
up with the Ministry of Finance in order to obtain the
necessary

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
一 9 -
necessary foreign exohange for the conventional value
of 1-1/2 cents per running foot, which 1s remitted
abroad upon importation of the films. The Ministry of
Finance also muet give its consent for the remittance
abroad of the frozen profits. No remittances of such
funde have been permitted since the 1938 agreement under
which Y3,000,000 was remitted. The frozen profits of
the American distributors have now accumulated to the
amount of about Y4,000,000 (Interview No. 2).
Limitation of Exhibition of Pictures
Article 42 of Ordinance No. 1 provides that each
motion picture house may present during a year only
fifty new foreign dramatic motion pictures, not count-
ing pictures elready exhipited in the same theater.
The latter may be repeated ad libitum. It is understood,
furthermore, that this proviso as to fifty piotures
relates only to feature pictures and not to news reels
or cartoone. This proviso would also appeer to indicate
a total release of about lo0 imported feature pictures
per annum, inasmuch as there are in Tokyo, and the prin-
cipal Japanese cities, two chains of first-run houses,
namely, those controlled by Toho (Toho Motion Picture
Company, Limited) and those controlled by Shochiku
(Shochiku Company, Limited). One hundred pictures would
provide about one picture each week for each of these
two groups. Article 42 takes effect January 1, 1940
(see report No. 34, cited above).
Limitation of Program and Attendance
Article 43 of Ordinance No. 1 provides that motion
pioture programs shall be limited to three hours. How-
ever, this is not a new proviso, having been in force
a8

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
as a police regulation since February 1, 1938. This
limitation of the program has led in some cases to the
severe cutting of pictures in order to reduce their
length (Interview No. 1). Article 46 provides that
minors under fourteen years may attend only programs
espeoially approved for them, this proviso to be
effective January 1, 1940.
German Pictures
It is not presumed that many European pictures will
be brought to Japan during the continuance of the current
hostilities. It is understood, however, that about thirty
German pictures have been brought into "Manohukuo" under
the agreement between the "Manchukuo" Picture Monopoly and
German interests, and that of this number, about twenty
are considered suitable to be brought into Japan. Some,
indeed, are reported to be already in Japan in stook. It
is reported that the Japanese firm of Towa Shoji is to
dietribute about half of these pictures and that a new
company, the Nihon Eiga Boeki Kabushiki Kaisha, organized
for the purpose, is to distribute the remainder (Interview
No. 2).
Censorship Provisions in Law
Article 27 of Ordinance No. 1 provides general rules
for censorehip as follows:
In case where motion pictures that have been
censored in accordance with the provisions of
Artiole 14, Para. 1 of the Motion Pioture Law fall
within the purview of any of the following numbers,
they shall fail to be qualified:-
1.
Pictures that are calculated to debase the
dignity of the Imperial Household or to
injure the prestige of the Empire;
2.
Pictures that are calculated to propagate
ideology in defiance of the Imperial Consti-
tution;
3.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
3. Piotures that are oalculated to be detri-
mental from the political or military,
diplomatic or economical points of view
and/or from the view point of public
interest;
4.
Piotures that are calculated to defy the
good manners or to injure the national
moral;
5.
Pictures that are calculated to be especially
detrimental to the purity of the national
language;
6.
Pictures the art, technique or technicali-
ties of production of which is particularly
inferior;
7. Pictures that are calculated otherwise to
retard the progress of the national culture.
Censorehip Problem
The censorship problem hae been somewhat compli-
cated by the new law. The first censorship takes place
in the customs house where the customs authorities
review the film and accept it or reject it for importa-
tion. The second censorship provided for in this law
takes place as heretofore in the Bureau of Public Order
of the Ministry of Home Affairs, altnough under certain
ciroumstances the Prefectural Governor may censor. The
Ministry of Education now has acquired certain rights
of selection (see Article 15 of Law No. 66 and Article
35 of Ordinanoe No. 1), and it is not now known by the
film importers whether the Ministry of Home Affairs and
the Ministry of Education will be able to get together
on their censorship or whether a separate censorship
will be conducted by the Ministry of Education (Inter-
view No. 2).
Toho vs. Shochiku
Report No. 59 from this office cited above relates
how the two motion picture groups of Japan, Toho and
Shochiku, endeavored to obtain control of the Nippon
Motion

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
-12-
Hotion Picture Company, Limited, usually known as
Nikkatsu. The struggle has continued since that time
with varying fortunes, and it has not been possible to
determine definitely the ownership of the Nikkatsu
stock on account of legal complications. In the mean-
time, Nikkatsu shares which had been quoted at Y21.00
in tne spring of 1939, skyrocketed to ¥92.00. Accord-
ing to newspaper reports, 23,000 shares of Nikkatsu
stock, which would determine the control of Nikkateu
by Toho or Shochiku, are in litigation, and the legal
decision to determine their disposition cannot be
terminated for two or three years.
Endlosures:
1/ "Motion Picture Law
Enforcement Regulations".
2/ "Motion Picture Law
Enforcement Ordinance".
File No. 840.6
CRC/blc
Dietribution:
Original and 4 copies to Department.
1 copy to Embassy, Tokyo.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12a -
CONFIDENTIAL
Raw Stook and Prints
There is practically no American cr other 1mported
film available for making prints for distribution in
Japan. Prints for projection are being made on stock
produced by the Fuji Photo Film Company, Limited, which
has its factory near Yokohama. This film is not proving
to be very satisfactory as 1t stretches and breaks
easily. Sound and singing are often badly reproduced.
It is estimated by local distributors that before wear-
ing out, the prints made on locally produced stock will
permit of not over 60 percent of the projections obtain-
able from Eastman stock formerly imported.
Taxation
Some of the American motion picture compenies are
being subjected to an arbitrary method of taxation.
This is true only of those offices located in certain
areas of the city, especislly in the district of the
Kanda-bashi taxation office of Tokyo City. Here, in
order to determine the profit for the purposes of inoome
tax, instead of determining the actual profit from the
accounts of the firm, which seeme to be contemplated by
law, the tax agents have, since the fiscal year 1935-36
to date, arbitrerily assumed that 7 percent of the gross
receipts of the company were profit and have proceeded
to levy income tax on that basis. The companies con-
cerned have protested but as yet nothing has resulted
from their protests.
Distributors

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.98)
-12b -
CONFIDENTIAL
Distributors Pessimistic
Although various extreme measures feared by the
American distributors did not materialize when the
regulations were promulgated, the books and business
of the firme are wholly at the disposal of the Japan-
ese; the reports which must be compiled and rendered
involve much red tape and are very onerous; taxation
is often applied in an arbitrary manner and, of course,
may be increased by law. The foreign firms, moreover,
are obliged to depend greatly on their Japanese
employees and, owing to the loose wording of Japanese
laws and regulations, and the arbitrariness of Japan-
ese police and ministries, shey are, as a matter of
faot, almost completely at the mercy of the Japanese
authorities. Whether the distributors can continue to
operate in the former manner or not will depend on the
number of films which they are permitted to import and
distribute. If permits to import and release amount
to less than a dozen films each per annum, it will
scarcely be possible for these companies to maintain
their offices and continue to do business as hereto-
fore.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.91)
-120 -
CONFIDENTIAL
Sources of Information
Interview No. 1 with the Manager of Paramount
Films, Limited, on November 16, 1939, and on subse-
quent occasions.
Interview No. 2 with the Manager of Warner
Brothers, Inoorporated, on November 17, 1939, as well
as subsequent interviews with the same pereon.
Gutton opi
Rocc'T

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Emolosure No. 1 to Roport No. 74 from the Tokyo
Consulate General on the subject, "New Regulations
for Motion Pictures in Japan", dated December 5, 1939.
TRANBLATION OF JOINT MINISTERIAL ORDINANCE NO. 1 OF
THE HOME MINISTER, EDUCATION MINISTER, AND WELFARE
MINISTER ENTITLED, "MOTION PICTURE LAW ENFORCEMENT
REGULATTONB", PROMULGATED ON SEPTEMBER 26, 1939: AND
PUBLISHED IN THE OFFICIAL GAZETTE, EDITION NO. 3820
OF SEPTEMBER 27, 1939, TRANSLATION HAVING BEEN MADE
BY LOCAL TRANSLATING BUREAU.
Article l. -"Persons who intend to obtain a permit
for motion picture production business under the
provisions of Article 2, Para. 1 of the Motion
Picture Law shall file the Application for a permit
in triplicate, stating therein the partioulars men-
tioned hereunder to the Home Minister and the Educa-
tion Minister through the office of the prefectural
governor competent over the territory where the
principal office of the motion pioture production
business concerned exists (in the prefeoture of
Tokyo, the Direotor of the Metropolitan Police Board,
same ontext following):-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Soope of business;
3. The place where the motion picture studio exists;
4. The structure, installations and equipment of
the motion pioture studio:-
A. Entire plan of the construction (to attach
the drawings);
B. Construction of the building, installations
and equipments employed for photographing,
sound recording, developing, printing,
projecting and storing (to attach the
drawings);
C. The kinds and number of cameras, recording
and printing machines;
D. Electric installations (to attach drawings).
5. The kinds of motion pictures to be produced;
6. Quantity of motion picture prints to be produced
in a year;
7. Number of employees and their respective kinds
of work;
8. The time when the business is to be commenced.
To the Application for a permit of the preceding
paragraph shall the prospeotus of industry and the
tentative statement of profit and loss acoount be
attached.
When the party intends to alter the particulars of No.2,
No. 3, No. 4, A and/or B, No. 5 or No. 8 of Para. 1
hereof, he shall obtain the permission of the Home
Minister and Eduoation Minister, through the office of
the prefeotural governor, submitting the reasons for
alteration in acoordance with the example of Para. 1
hereof.
When

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
when the particulars of No. 1 of Para. 1 hereof have
been altered, the notification in duplicate shall
be without delay sent in to the Home Minister and
Education Minister through the office of the prefeo-
tural governor according to the provisions of Para.
1 hereof.
Artiole 2. - Persons who intend to obtain a permit
for the motion picture distribution as provided for
in Articl9 2, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law, shall
submit an application in triplicate stating therein
the matters hereunder mentioned to the Home Minister
and the Education Minister through the office of the
prefectural governor competent for the place where
the principal office of the motion picture distribu-
tion exists:-
1. Full names and domicile;
2. The place where a detached or otherwise distribu-
tion office exists;
3. Territory for distribution;
4. Methods and ways of distribution;
5. Kinds of motion pictures to be distributed;
6. Quantity of motion pictures proposed to be
distributed within a period of one year;
7. The time when business will be commenced.
The prospectus for promoting the business and the tenta-
tive statement of the profit and loss account shall be
attached to the Application of the preceding paragraph.
When the particulars of No. 5 and/or No.7 of Para. 1
hereof are to be altered, permission therefor shall be
applied for, stating the reason thereof in accordance
with the examples set forth in Para. 1 hereof, to the
Home Minister and the Education Minister through the
office of the prefectural governor. When the particulars
of No. 1 to No. 4 of Para. 1 hereof have been altered,
notification thereof in duplicate shall be sent in
without delay to the Home Minister and the Education
Minister through the office of the prefectural governor
in accordance with the provisions of Para. 1 hereof.
Artiole 3. - When motion picture producers or motion
pioture distributors have commenced or abolished the
business, notification thereof in duplicate shall be
sent in without delay to the Home Minister and the
Education Minister through the office of the prefectural
governor in accordance with the provisions of Artiole
1, Para. 1 or of Para. 1 of the preceding Article as
the case may be, same rule applying to the case where
business will be ceased for a period of not less than
six months.
Article 4.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Artiole 4. - In the event the motion picture producer or
the motion pioture distributor died and the inheritance
took place, the successor shall send in the notifica-
tion in duplicate, within a period of two months there-
from, together with the eremplification of the family
register to the Home Minister and the Education Minister
through the office of the prefectural governor in
accordance with the provisions of Article 1, Para. 1,
or of Artiole 2, Para. 1, as the case may be.
Artiole 5. - The motion picture producers and the motion
picture distributors shall, on or before the end of
February for each and every year, send in the notifica-
tion in duplioate mentioning therein the kinds and such
other partioilars for the motion pictures that have
been produced mnd/or distributed during the year preced-
ing in acoordance with the Fom No. 1 to the Home
Minister and the Education Minister.
Artiole 6. - The kinds of work are designated in accord-
ance with the provisions of Article 5 of the Motion
Picture Law as follows:
1. Representation;
2. Performance;
3. Photographing.
Article 7. - Persons who intend to be registered in
accordance with the provisions of Article 5 of the
Motion Picture Law shall file the Application for
registration stating therein the particulars hereunder-
mentioned to the Home Minister.
1. Full name, domicile, vocational name and date of
birth;
2. Kind of work.
In the Application for registration of the preceding
paragraph shall the papers hereundermentioned be attached:-
1. Curriculum vitae;
2. Certificate of Talent issued by the person designated
by the Home Minister;
3. Paper in proof of approval of the parent or of one
who supervises in lieu of a parent in case of a
minor, that of husband in case of a wife, or paper
stating the opinion of the school-master on the
person while in course of school education.
When the particulars mentioned in No. 1 of Para. 1
hereof have changed, the notification thereof shall be
sent in to the Home Minister.
Artiole 8. - When the Home Minister has effected the
registration in accordance with the provisions of
Article 5 of the Motion Pioture Law, the Certificate of
Registration made after the example of Form No. 2 shall
be delivered.
If

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-4
If the person who took delivery of the Certificate
of Registration according to the rule of the fore-
going paragraph has changed the name, vocational cr
otherwise, or has had the same lost or destroyed,
the rewriting or re-issuance thereof may be applied
for to the Home Minister.
Article 9. - Person whose vocation has been suspended
or whose registration of vocation has been cancelled
in accordance with the provisions of Article 6 of the
Motion Picture Law, shall, without delay, return to
the Home Minister the Certifioate of Registration
obtained in accordance with the provisions of Para. 1
of the preceding Article. Upon expiration of the
term of suspension of the vocation shall the Certifi-
cate of Registration be returned again to the party.
Article 10. - When the person who was registered
according to the rules of Article 5 of the Motion
Picture Law has abolished the vocation or died, the
party, in case of abolishment, and the head or a member
if the family, in case of death, shall without delay
send in the notification thereof to the Home Minister.
Artiole ll. - In the case where a motion picture
producer intends to employ a minor under fourteen of
age in the work designatid in Article 6, the notifica-
tion shall be sent in to the Home Minister stating
the particulars hereundermentioned:-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Full name, vocational name, domicile and date
of birth of the persons to be engaged;
3. The respective kind of work to be employed in.
To the notification of the preceding paragraph shall
the hereundermentioned papers be attached:-
1. Certificate of Health of a physician in proof
of the health being suitable for work;
2. Paper in proof of approval of the parent or of
a per son supervising in lieu of a parent of the
person to be employed or a paper stating the
opinion of the school-master in case of the person
to be employed being in the course of school
education.
Article 12. - Only in the cases mentioned hereunder
may the motion picture producer employ those who have
not yet been registered in accordance with the rules
of Article 5 of the Motion Picture Law in the kinds
of work specified in Article 6:-
1. when they are temporarily taken to the work on
specified occasion of production of the motion
pioture.
Article 13.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Artiele 13. - The motion picture producer shall not
allow the minor under sixteen of age and the girls
to be engaged in the production of motion pictures
during the interval of time as between lo o'clock
p.m. and 5 o'clock a.m., provided, however, that when
temporarily necessary, this rule shall not prevail
if the permission of the chief of the police station
governing the place of work they are engaged in has
been therefor obtained.
Article 14. - The kind of motion picture is designated
as hereunder mentioned in accordance with the provisions
of Article 9, Para. 1 of the Motion Pioture Law:-
1. Dramatic motion picture.
Article 15. - When the motion picture producer intends
to notify the particulars in accordance with the
provisions of the former part of Article 9, Para. 1
of the Motion Picture Law, the notification containing
the following particulars shall be smnt in to the
Home Minister ten days ahead of the day when the
photographing is commenced:-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture;
3. Name of the author of the original work and
of the adapter;
4. Name of the representer and of the principal
performer (actor);
5. Substance of the Motion Picture (mention shall
be made according to the playbook and two copies
thereof attached);
6. The time to commence photographing and to finish
the production;
The Home Minister may, when deemed necessary, demand
the produotion of the paper in proof of the copyright
of the motion picture.
When the motion picture producer has altered the parti-
culars of No. 2 to No. 4 or the principal part of
No. 5 of Para. 1 hereof, notification thereof shall
be sent in to the Home Minister on each occasion of
such alteration in accordance with the provisions of
the latter part of Article 9, Para. 1 of the Motion
Picture Law.
Artiole 16. - The selection and recommendation of
motion pictures provided for in Article l0 of the
Motion Picture Law shall be exercised in accordance
with the following criterion.
1. Recommendation;
2. Awarding a prize;
The prize of No. 2 of the preceding paragraph shall be
awarded to the producer in respect of such picture as
has been considered to be particularly superior being
selected from among those to which the Education
Minister

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
Minister has awarded Recommendation in accordance
with No. 1 of the same paragraph.
Article 17. - The owner of the motion picture which
received the Recommendation of the preceding Article
may submit the playbook of that motion picture with
the seal-certifying-passage-of-censorship of the
Form No. 8 being affixed thereon to the ducation
Minister and have the seal-certifying-receipt-of-
recommendation of the Form No. 3 affixed thereon.
Article 18. - When the Education Minister orders to
produce the motion picture print in accordance with
the provisions of Article ll of the Motion Picture
Law, necessary particulars such as the title of the motion
picture, the term for production and the length of
the period of production etc., shall be notified to
the owmer thereof.
If the owner of the motion picture print of the preced-
ing paragraph is unable to produce the print according
to the notification of the preceding paragraph, he
shall submit, without delay, a notification stating
the reason therefor to the Education Minister.
Article 19. - What is referred to as foreign motion
pictures in the Motion Picture Law shall be those fall-
ing within the purview of either of the pictures mentioned
hereunder:-
1. The motion pictures produced in a foreign country,
provided, however, that those motion pictures
which have been produced by the subjects of the
Japanese Empire or by the corporation organized
under the laws of the Japanese Empire and of
which the subject of the Japanese Empire being
the principal representer, performer and/or
cameraman and of whose title and/or the sound
reproduction being not principally foreign language
shall be excluded;
Article 20. - The motion picture distributors shall
not distribute foreign dramatic motion pictures in
exoess of the quantity allotted by the Home Minister.
The allotment of the preceding paragraph shall be
effected in respect of dramatic motion pictures
proposed to be distributed within the next following
year, provided, however, that as to the person who
wishes to distribute foreign pictures afresh the
allotment shall be effeoted with respect to such
quantity as are proposed to be distributed within
that particular year.
Article 2l. - When the motion picture distributors
intend to receive the allotment in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding Article, an Application
shall be filed to the Home Minister on or before the
3lst Ootober each year. In the case of the proviso
to

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
to the preceding Article or when there is special
cause, the motion picture distributor shall be
allowed to file the Application of the preceding
paragraph at any time, limitation of the term of
the preoeding paragraph notwithstanding.
Artiole 22. - The following particulars shall be
mentioned in the Application of the preceding
Article:-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Quantity of the foreign motion pictures proposed
to be distributed.
The following papers shall be attached to the Applica-
tion of the preceding paragraph:
1. Protocol prepared according to the Form No. 4
with respect to the dramatic motion piotures
which have been distributed within the period
of three years ahead of the month preceding to
the month in which the Application is filed;
2. Protocols prepared according to the Form No. 5
with respect to the motion pictures which have
been exported within the period of one year ahead
of the month preceding to the month in which the
Application is filed.
Article 23. - The Home Minister may, when deemed
necessary, order the alteration of the quantity that
has been allotted in accordance with the provisions
of Article 20.
Article 24. - Persons who intend to receive the
censorship mentioned in Article 13, Para. 1 of the
Motion Picture Law shall file the Application to the
Home Minister, stating therein the particulars men-
tioned hereunder together with the print to be
censored and a copy of the play-book;-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture;
3. Full name and domicile of the producer;
4. Number of reels and length;
5. Proposed date for export;
6. Objeot of export;
7. Port of shipment and the destination;
8. Full name and domicile of the consignee.
As for news-reels for which there is no time for
receiving the censorship of the Home Minister, censor-
ship may as well be received by filing the Application,
in accordance with th example of the preceding para-
graph, to the prefectural governor of the place of
produotion or of the port of shipment.
When deemed necessary, the censorship authorities may
demand the produotion of a paper in proof of copy-
right of the motion picture.
Article 25.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Article 25. - Persons who intend to receive the
censorahip mentioned in Article 14, Para. 1 of the
Motion Picture Law shall file the Applioation in
duplicate to the Home Minister, stating therein the
particulars mentioned hereunder, together with the
prints to be censored and three copies of play-book
(in case censorship is applied for the duplicate of
motion picture within a period of not exceeding
three years as after the original print thereof
having passed the censorship, one copy of the play-
book will be enough for the purpose):-
1. Full name and domicile;
2. Title of the motion picture (in case of a
foreign motion picture, the original titles and
its translation shall both be mentioned);
3. Full name and domicile of the producer;
4. Number of reels and length;
5. As for a dramatic motion picture, the date of
the notification of the provisions of Article
9, Para. 1 of the motion pioture law.
As for news-reels for which there is no time for
receiving the censorship of the Home Minister,
censorship may as well be received by applying
to the prefectural governor of the place of
exhibition in accordance with the example of the
preceding paragraph.
Provisions of Para. 3 of the preceding Article
shall apply to the cases of the foregoing two
paragraphs with necessary modifications.
Article 26. - The motion picture which was censored
in accordance with the provisions of Article 13,
Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall be dealt with
as disqualified if it falls within the purview of
any one of the following numbers:-
1. Piotures that are calculated to debase the
dignity of the Imperial Household or to spoil
the prestige of the Empire;
2. Pictures that are caloulated to be prejudical
to the interest of the Empire from either
political, military, diplomatic or economic
view points or otherwise;
3. Pictures that are calculated to give rise to
misunderstanding as to the national culture;
4. Pictures the art, technique, or technicalities
of production of which are particularly inferior;
5. Pictures that are otherwise unsuitable for export.
Artiole 27. - In case where motion pictures that
have been censored in aocordance with the provisions
of Article 14, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law fall
within the purview of any of the following numbers,
they shall fail to be qualified:-
1.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
1. Pictures that are oaloulated to debase the
dignity of the Imperial Household or to injure
the prestige of the Empire;
2. Piotures that are caloulated to propagate
ideology in defiance of the Imperial Constitution;
3. Pictures that are caloulated to be detrimental
from the political or military, diplomatic or
economical points of view and/or from the view
point of public interest;
4. Piotures that are calculated to defy the good
manners or to injure the national moral;
5. Pictures that are calculated to be especially
detrimental to the purtty of the national
language;
6. Piotures the art, technique or technicalities
of production of which is particularly inferior;
7. Piotures that are calculated otherwise to retard
the progress of the national culture.
Artiole 28. - As for the pictures which passed the
censorship, the Censorship-passage-certificate as
per the Form No. 6 shall be given and the Seal-of-
Passage and mark and number be affixed on the motion
picture print with respect to those covered under
the Application of the provisions of Article 24
and the Seal-of-Passage and mark and number as per
the Form No. 7 shall be affixed on the motion picture
print and Seal-of-Passage as per the Form No. 8 on
the playbook with respeot to those covered under
the Application of the provisions of Article 25,
provided, however, that, as for those which passed
the censorship under the provisions of Article 24,
Para. 2 and of Article 25, Para. 2, the Seal-of-
Passage and mark and number to be otherwise affixed
on the motion picture print may well be omitted.
Article 29. - The passage of censorship of Article
13, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture Law shall be
valid for a period of three months, and the passage
of censorship of Article 14, Para. 1 of the same
Law for a period of three years, provided, however,
that the passage of censorship exercised by the
prefectural governor in accordance with the
provisions of Article 14, Para. 1 of the same Law
shall be valid for a period of three months and the
validity thereof shall not prevail in other prefecture.
Article 30. - In cases where special circumstances
exist, the censorship authorities may, in respect
of the motion pictures censored, designate the term
of validity for the passage of censorship otherwise
than that provided for in the preceding Article or
may impose territorial or other limitation or
restriotion.
When the censorship authorities have imposed the
limitation or restriction mentioned in the preceding
paragraph, statement to such effect shall be entered
in the Censorship-passage-certificate in respect
of one applied for in accordance with the provisions
of

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
of Article 24 and in the play-book in respect of
one applied for in accordance with the provisions
of Article 25 as the case may be.
Article 3l. - When the Home Minister has effected
the dispositions provided for in Article 13, Para.
2 of the Motion Picture Law, the Censorship-passage-
certificate shall be caused to be returned to the
authorities and the seal and mark and number affixed
in proof of passage on the print itself be cancelled
in the case of prohibition, and a statement to such
effect be entered in the Censorship-passage-certifi-
cate in the case of limitation.
Article 32. - When the motion picture which passed
the censorship falls within the purview of any one
of the following numbers, re-affixation of the Seal-
of-Passage or of mark and number or re-issuance of
the Censorship-passage-certificate may be applied
for to the censorship authorities concerned of that
particular motion pioture:-
1. When the Seal-of-Passage or mark and number
affixed on the motion picture print has been
destroyed;
2. When the playbook on which the Seal-of-Passage
had been affixed has been lost or destroyed;
3. When the Censorship-passage-certificate has
been lost or destroyed.
In the case of No. 2 of the preceding Paragraph, a
further copy of playbook shall be produced.
Article 33. - When it is desired that the particulars
of No. 2 or No. 7 of Article 24, Para. 1 or of No.2
of Article 25, Para. 1 be altered with respect to
the motion picture that has passed the censorship,
permission therefor shall be obtained from the
censorship authorities concerned of that particular
motion picture.
Artiole 34. - The censorship authorities shall charge
the following fees with respect to the censorship
in accordance with the provisions of Article 14,
Para. laf the Motion Picture Law:-
1. As for the motion picture which is subject to
censorship of the Home Minister, one sen per
one metre or any fraction, and one sen & five
rin per one metre or fraction with respect to
a foreign motion picture;
2. As for the duplicate of the motion picture
which received the censorship of the Home
Minister being applied for censorship by the
one and same applicant and as for those for
whose censorship the application is filed
within an interval of not over six months as
after the expiration of the term of validity
of

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
of the passage of censorship, five rin per one
metre or any fraction, and seven rin and five
mo per one metre or fraction for a foreign
motion pioture;
3. One sen per three metres or fraction as for
the motion picture which received the censor-
ship of the prefectural governor.
When deemed necessary from the point of view of public
interest, the censorship authorities may exempt the
fees.
The fees provided for in Para. 1 hereof shall be paid
in revenue stamps by affixing on the Application for
censorship.
Article 35. - The motion pictures that shall be
caused to be exhibited in accordance with the provi-
sions of Article 15, Para. 1 of the Motion Picture
Law shall be such as have been sanctioned by the
Education Minister to be oontributory toward foster-
ing national spirit or enlightening and promoting
the intellect and talent of the nationals, with the
exception of dramatic motion pictures.
The motion picture exhibitors shall exhibit a quantity
of 250 metres or more, at a time, of the motion picture
that has been sanctioned in accordance with the
provisions of the preceding paragraph, provided, how-
ever, that this rule shall not prevail in the case
where the motion picture exhibitor exhibits the prints
in accordance with the provisions of Article 15,
Para. 2 and also where the motion picture which has
been awarded with Recommendation under the rule of
Article l6 are exhibited.
Article 36. - Persons who intend to obtain sanotions
according to the provisions of Para. 1 of the preceding
Article shall file to the Education Minister the
Application for sanction stating therein the parti-
culars mentioned in No. 1 to No. 4 of Article 25,
Para. 1 together with the print of motion picture
calling for the sanotion and two copies of play-book
(one of the two copies containing the Seal-of-Passage
of the Form No. 8).
Artiole 37. - when the sanction has been rendered in
accordance with the provisions of Article 35, Para.
1, the Seal-of-Sanction of the Form No. 9 shall be
affixed on the play-book of the very motion picture
print on which the Seal-of-Passage of the Form No.8
is being affixed.
Article 38. - The term of validity of the sanotion
of Artiole 35, Para. 1 shall be one and same as the
term of validity granted for the motion picture
itself upon passage of the censorship.
Article 39.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Article 39. - The Home Minister may, in cases of
spocial circumstances, cancel the sanction granted
under Artiole 35, Para. 1. When the sanotion has
been canoelled in accordance with the provisions of
the preceding paragraph, the Seal-of-Sanction affixed
on the playbook of the very motion picture shall be
struck out by erasure.
Artiole 40. - When the Seal-of-Passage has been re-
affixed on the playbook in accordance with the
provisions of Article 32, Para. 1 with respect to
the motion picture which received the sanction of
Article 35, Para. 1, the playbook concerned shall be
without delay produced before the Education Minister
applying for re-affixation of the Seal-of-Sanction
of the Form No. 9.
Article 4l. - when the prefectural governor intends
to cause the motion picture to be exhibited in accord-
ance with the provisions of Article 15, Para. 2 of
the Motion Picture Law, the period of such exhibition
shall be fixed as within one week at a time, provided,
however, that such exhibition shall not be of a period
put together in excess of six weeks per year for one
cinematographic theatre.
Article 42. - The motion picture exhibitor who operates
a permanent cinematographic theatre shall not exhibit
dramatic foreign motion pictures in excess of fifty
prints as aggregated for the whole year and in respect
of a certain cinematographic theatre.
In case where the exhibitor of the preceding paragraph
exhibits a dramatic foreign motion picture that has
been played at the same theatre of his, such picture
shall not be calculated into the number of prints
of the preceding paragraph.
In the event an exhivitor commences the exhibition of
dramatic foreign motion pictures afresh in the middle
of the year, the number of prints provided for in
Para. 1 hereof shall be computed by the number of
months.
Article 43. - The motion picture exhibitor who operates
a permanent cinematographic theatre shall not have
the exhibition lasting beyond three hours at a time,
provided, however, that, in case where the exhibition
is effeoted in accordance with the provisions of
Article 15, Para. 2 of the Motion Picture Law, exten-
sion shall be allowed within a length of time not
exceeding thirty minutes.
Artiole 44. - The motion picture exhibitor or any
other person who exhibits a motion picture otherwise
than for business shall not have the prints projeoted
on the soreen at a speed of over 27.4 metres a minute.
Artiole 45.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
Article 45. - The motion picture exhibitor or
the one who exhibits the motion picture otherwise
than for business shall not be allowed to exhibit
unless with the projector equipped with the automatic
safety-switches.
Artiole 46. - The motion picture exhibitor or one
who exhibits the motion pictures otherwise than for
business, shall not allow minors under fourteen of
age to be admitted into the place of exhibition with
the exception of the case where the pictures played
are exclusively those passed by censorship in accord-
ance with the provisions of Article 14, Para. 1 and
recognized by the Education Minister (in case of a
picture passed the censorship of the prefectural
governor, the governor concerned) to be harmless
from minor's educational point of view, provided,
however, that this rule shall not prevail where the
minors under six of age are in company with a guardian.
Article 47. - When the recognition of the preceding
Article has been granted, the Seal-of-Recognition
after the Form No. 10 shall be affixed on the play-
book containing the Seal-of-Passage of the Form No.8,
provided, however, that in the case of the prefectural
governor's recognition such seal may well be omitted.
The provisions of Article 38 to Article 40 shall
apply to the recognition of the preceding Article
with necessary modifications.
Article 48. - The motion picture exhibitor or the
one who exhibits the motion picture otherwise than
for business shall not allow to operate the projeo-
tion machine by other than those with projection
license granted by the prefectural governor, provided,
however, that this rule shall not prevail where the
film concerned is non-inflammable. The motion
picture exhibitor or one who exhibits the motion
picture otherwise than for business shall instal
two sets of projection machines, and, in case the
exhibition lasts as a rule six hours consecutively,
three, and in case of loss hours, two, projection
licensees shall be put to work.
Artiole 49. - In case the full name and domicile shall
be entered in the Application or in the Notification
according to the provisions of this Ordinance, the
trade-name, the sddress of the principal office, the
full name and domicile of the representative thereof
shall be entered in the case of the party concerned
being a juridical person.
Article 50. - Persons who contravened the rules of
Article 3; 4; 11, Para. 1 and of Article 33, shall
be subject to a minor fine.
Article 51.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
Article 51. - In case his agents, head of his
family, member of his family, inmate, employee or
whosoever works under him shall have committed an
act falling within the purview of the provisions
of the preceding Article, the motion picture producer,
distributor or one owning the motion picture that
has passed the censorship shall not be exempt from
punishment on the excuse that that particular act
had not been in accordance with his direction.
Article 52. - The criminal provisions of Article 50
shall be applied to the member of the board, the
director or any other officer who executes the
affairs in case the offender is a juridical person,
and to the legal agent in case the offender is a
minor or a person incompetent of managing the property,
provided, however, that this rule shall not prevail
where the minor concerned is legally competent same
as an adult in respect of the business concerned.
ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS
Article 53. - This Ordinance shall be enforced as
from the day on which the Motion Picture Law takes
effect, provided, however, that the provisions of
Article 20, Article 42 and Article 46 shall take
effect as from January 1st l940, those of Article
35, Para. 2 as from January 1st 1940 so far as the
cities of Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka, Yokohama, Kobe and
Nagoya are concerned and as from July 1st 1940 so
far as any other cities, towns or villages are con-
cerned, and that the provisions of Article 45 and 48
shall take effect as from October 1st 1940.
Article 54. - The Home Office Ordinances mentioned
hereunder shall be abolished:-
1. "The motion picture film censorship regulations":
the Home Office Ordinance No. 10 of May 1925;
2. "The export motion picture film regulations":
the Home Office Ordinance No.63 of October 1935;
3. "In the matter concerning the hours of exhibition
of the motion picture and the limitation to the
meterage of the print": the Home Office
Ordinance No. 55 of December 1937.
Artiole 55. - Persons engaging in the business accord-
ing to the provisions of Paragraph 2 of the Addigion-
al Provisions to the Motion Picture Law shall, within
one month as from the day of enforcement of this
Ordinance, send in the notification in duplicate,
stating therein the particulars of No. 1 to No. 3
and No. 5 of Article 1, Para. 1 in respect of the
motion pioture producers; and the particulars of No.l
to No.3 and No.5 of Article 2, Para. 1 in respeot of
the motion picture distributors, to the Home Minister
and the Education Minister through the office of the
prefecgural governor mentioned in Article 1, Para. 1
or

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
or Article 2, Para. 1 as the case may be, provided,
however, that this rule shall not prevail where
the Application for the permit has been meanwhile
filed in accordance with the provisions of Article
1 or Article 2 as the case may be.
Article 56. - The term of validity of the censored
films that have been censored by the administrative
authorities prior to enforcement of this ordinance
or the film which passed the inspection for export
shall be the remainder of the term of validity as
governed by the old rules.
Article 57. - The motion picture exhibitors shall
not be allowed to exhibit motion pictures, within
the interval of six months as from the time of the
provisions of Article 35, Para. 2 taking effect,
with the exception of the number of days equivalent
to fifty percent of the playdays of each month, as
according to the rules of the said paragraph.
In cases where the motion picture exhibitors exhibit
films that have passed the censorship of the
administrative authorities prior to this Ordinance
having taken effect or such duplicates thereof as
having received the sanction of Article 35, Para. 1,
the provisions concerning meterage as mentioned in
said Article Para. 2 shall not prevail during the
interval of three years as from the time when this
Ordinance has taken effect.
Article 58. - In cases where censored films that
have passed the censorship of the administrative
authorities prior to this ordinance coming into
effect are either exclusively exhibited or else
along with the motion pictures that have received
sanction under the rule of Article 46 hereof, with
the exception of the case where the Education
Minister regards it specifically necessary, the
rules of Article 46 shall not prevail.
*****
***
*

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
molosure No. 2 to Report No. 74 from the Tokyo
Consulate General on the subject, "New Regulations
for Motion Pictures in Japan", dated December 5, 1939.
TRANSLATION OF IMPERIAL ORDINANCE NO. 668 ENTITLED,
"MOTION PICTURE LAW ENFORCEMENT ORDINANCE", PRO-
MULGATED ON SEPTEMBER 26, 1939, AND PUBLISHED IN THE
OFFICIAL GAZETTE, EDITION NO. 382O OF SEPTEMBER 27,
1939, TRANSLATION HAVING BEEN MADE IN THIS CONSULATE
GENERAL.
Article 1. - "The motion picture producing business"
of Article 2 of the Motion Picture Law is hereby
defined to be such business as (a) planning motion
pictures, (b) photographing and (c) editing, under
combined management in manufacturing motion pictures.
Such business involving either one or two of
(a) planning motion pictures, (b) photographing
motion pictures, (o) editing motion pictures, shall
be regarded as "motion picture producing business".
The motion picture distributing business" of
Article 2 of the Motion Picture Law is hereby defined
to be such business as (1) renting or (a) selling
motion pictures to (a) motion picture exhibiting
enterprises or (b) other parties exhibiting motion
pictures.
Article 2. - The competent ministers funotioning
under Item one of Article 2, Article 4 and Article
18 of the Motion Picture Law, shall be the Minister
of Home Affairs and the Minister of Education;
The competent minister functioning under Article
5, Article 6, Article 9, Article 12, Item two of
Article 13, and Article 16 of the Motion Picture
Law, shall be the Minister of Home Affairs; and
The competent minister functioning under Article
10, Article il and Item one of Article 15 of the
Motion Picture Law, shall be the Minister of Educa-
tion.
APPENDIX REGULATIONS
These present regulations shall be enforoed as
from the date of enforcement of the Motion Pioture Law.
***
*

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: January
Restriotions in Japan upon the Importation of American
Films and upon Exchange Remittances
1940 JAN 18 PM 4
DEPARTMENT
PARTICIPANTS:
Colonel F. L. Herron
Division
RECEIVE
Mr. Mackay
894.406I MOTiON PiCTURE S/38
FAR EASTERNATAUIS
Mr. Ballantine
Mr. Jones
OF STATE
COPIES TO:
Departdent of S
Copy sent to Joky
January
1-1498
Colonel Herron called at the Department in order to
discuss the quota which was recently imposed upon the
importation of foreign films into Japan and to press fur-
ther the case which he presented in his letter of Decem-
ber 14, 1939, (file no. 894.4061 Motion P1ctures/32).
During recent years American distributors have imported
into Japan approximately 250 pictures annually. Now, the
total quota for foreign pictures has been fixed at 120
most of which has been allotted to American producers.
FILED
Colonel Herron states that American distributors cannot
16
quota; that the Japanese Government obviously 1s trying
F/N
to drive out American distributors from Japan; that
Japan

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Japan needs American pictures but it seeks, as it did in
"Manohukuo", to have the distribution purely in Japanese
hands; and that American motion pioture distributors will
probably withdraw from Japan rather than turn their films
over to Japanese distributors.
In arguing that this Government should assist Ameri-
can motion picture distributors in coping with the
situation in Japan, Colonel Herron referred several times
to the "agreement" between the Japanese Ministry of
Finance and the American Motion Picture Association of
Japan. He seemed to think that the Department should make
representations, either formal or informal, to the Japanese
Government asking that that "agreement" be not only
carried out but extended.
Incidentally, Colonel Herron said that he and his
associates have discovered that Mr. Hisaji Kubo, the
Japanese who "negotiated" the "agreement" between the
association and the Japanese Ministry of Finance, is a
"crook" and the association has ceased dealing with him.
Mr. Jones stated that consideration would be given
in the Department to instructing Ambassador Grew to en-
deavor informally to obtain an enlargement of the quota
for American pictures and that in this connection a full
statement from Colonel Herron of the facts in connection
w1th

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-3
with the quota allotment, the previous business done by
American distributors, and the probable effects of the
operation of the new quota, would be helpful to the De-
partment. In reply to the suggestion of Mr. Jones that
in view of the financial situation in Japan it might be
difficult to convince the Japanese Government that a
higher quota should be allowed, Colonel Herron said that
the American distributors appreciate fully the financial
situation in Japan and that they would not insist upon
the remission from Japan to the United States of funds
accruing from the showing of the films in Japan.
Colonel Herron indicated his intention of submitting
to the Department a full statement of the facts.
Colonel Herron at first urged that the Department
endeavor through informal action by Ambassador Grew to
persuade the Japanese Government to live up to the
"agreement" above cited and to extend that "agreement".
Meesrs. Ballantine and Jones suggested that in view of
the character of that "agreement" it was doubtful that
the

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.94)
-4
the Department would be willing to proceed upon that
basis but that consideration would be given to the
matter. Subsequently Colonel Herron said that he would
send a statement to the Department which, without
reference to the previous "agreement", would give suf-
ficient facts to enable the Department to take some
action in the matter purely on the basis of reduced
quota allotment for American films. Colonel Herron
seemed satisfied with this arrangement.
m.m.H
m
FE:AOnés:HES/MHP

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
OTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
28 WEST 44TH STREET RECEIVED
New York CITYi PARTMENT OF STATE
CK.L. HERRON
1940 JAN dquary 10, 1940
Tele
DIVISlUN r
Mr. Raymond C. Mackay,
Division of Far Eastern Affaip
JAN
Department of State,
MR. HORNBECK
Washington, D. C.
JAN 151940
Departo
Copy sent to Tokgo
Dear Mr. Mackay:
With further reference to our conversations when I was in
Washington last week with Mr. Ballantine and Mr. Jones regarding
894.4O61 MOTiON PiCTURES/39
the new decree in Japan limiting the number of foreign pictures
to be allowed to be imported there, the motion picture industry
would appreciate it very much indeed if instructions could be
forwarded by the State Department to our Embassy in Japan request-
ing that as vigorous a protest as possible be made to the Japanese
Government against this new decree.
The decree limits the number of foreign pictures to be im-
ported into Japan to 120 in 1940, allotting the American com-
panies as follows:
Paramount
14
Metro
13
Columbia
11
United Artists
7
and the other four American distributors 9 each.
The Japanese independent distributors who handle not only
foreign pictures but Japanese are to be given permits to import
39 foreign pictures, and two Japanese exhibitors are given 5 per-
mits each for foreign pictures, allowing these latter to import
direct rather than through distributors by virtue of the fact
that they are allowed foreign import permits.
This allocation was a very severe blow to our industry andi
we feel that it is the first move made by the Japanese Govern-
ment in their efforts to try and force our companies to discon
tinue the operation of their own offices in Japan, compelling them
目
to sell their product to domestic distributors. This, of cours
is the general trend of all businesses in Japan, which we realize,
but the American motion picture distributors feel that they know
best how to distribute their product and all of the large American
companies have constantly refused to allow their product to be
handled by any but their own direct agents.
F/N
The limitation of the number of pictures allowed these
different companies is made with the direct view of putting such

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Mr. Raymond C. Mackay,
January 10, 1940
companies out of business because it is impossible, even with the
number of 14 allotted, for the large companies to carry on their
business there and pay their overhead expenses. The Japanese
Government, of course, knows this and have passed this decree
with that in mind.
Unfortunately, it seems the only way to get anywhere near
a fair deal from the present government in Japan is to constantly
bear down on them by the efforts of our Embassy.
Again thanking you for your kindness in taking this matter
up for our industry, and with best personal wishes, I am,
Most sincerely,

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
TO THE FORLIGN LANAGRS:
The following cable has just been received from the Averican
Motion Picture Association of Japan:
Tokyo, Dec. 23, 1939 4:25 Pi
flome Linistry i sued 1940 distribution "Total 120 foreign
pictures. Allocations American companies as follows:
Paramount
14
Metro
13
Columbia
11
United Artists
7
Others
9 each
and Japanese independents 39 of vhich exhibitors Toho and
Shochiku received 5 each. Unreleased pictures censored prior
to 1940 allowed for distribution additionally. Consider Home
Ministrys decision severe blow Anerican industry as grant Toho
Shochiku possible initial wedge in eventual elimination of direct
representation therefore Board reconmends no outright sales.
quota granted is not guarantee of import which Finance
Ministry will decide making possibility fever pictures than quota
and no guarantees for the future.
Present accu ulated funds nearing 5,000,000 mark: Board
members applied for remittances but cannot take optimistic view
as to when and if they will be allowed.
In conclusion Board unanimously agrees future holds no
guarantees for American industry Japan unless Hays Organization
takes our entire probleus in Jupun for discussion with State De-
partment as local protests futile to date.
As America Japan presently discussing Trade Treaty Board
considers present tine post opportune to include our industry and
problems in those discussions going on Washington and Tokyo today.
Consider strong action imperative at this stage."
F. L. Herron

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.90)
January 31 1940
GREIRTIAL - ALE IE ONLX
1887
To the Amerlean Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES/39
The Seeretary of State refers to his telegram no. 20
of Jamuary 16, 1940, and previous correspondenee in regare
to restrietions in Japan upon the 1mportation of Amerieam
filme and upon exahange remittances and eneloses for the
confidential information of the Amerioan Ambassader & copy
of a memorandum of a oonveraation of January 3, l940,
between Colonel F. L. Herron and certain officers of the
Department and a copy of a letter of January 10 frem
Colonel Herrun en shis subjeot.
Enelesures:
1. Momeranksm of oun-
versmtien between
Colemel F. L. Herrem,
lamtime and . Jenes,
Jammary S.
8.
Frem Frederick L. Merren,
Jammary 10.
OR
JAN 31 1940
004.4061 Metiem Pietures/s0
X
7
gmp
egc.
m7mit

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.90)
ARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1/7/40
Colouel Herron Uas
snformed by telefkhove ou
Jaunary16 Kursuaat to a
previaus request made of
iwe, that an enstruethou
had heen seut to Uubossodos
Trew
No further ae tron

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
JAN 18 1940
DIVISION OF
RECOR
FROM
12 wu n 47
DivisionAf
NNW NewYork NY Jan 16 40
FAH EASTEIN AFAIRS
JAN 1. 1940
Raymond C Mackay:
Bepertrcht of Statw
Div of Far Eastern Affairs:
894.4061
Have had two urgent cablegrams from our representatives
in Tokio stating Ambassador has not received instructions from
department and is anxiously awaiting these to take up our problems
stop The time element is most important and would appreciate anythi
MOTi ON PiCTURE S/40
you could do to help out on this .
Herron.
1135am. Jan 16 40.
Pr Tuce
JAN 1 8 1940
FILED
894-4061Motion
F/N

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
DIRECTOR OF EXTENSION WORK
ENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
April 29 1940
PR 1C PM 12 26
April 9, 1940.
DEPA
DIVIS ON OF
COMMUNICATIONS
111940
VENT
AND RECORDS
MEMORANDUM FOR THE DEPARTLENT OF STATE
OF STATE
Mr. Saburo Soshiroda, Assistant Professor of Architecture
894.406I MOT ION PICTURES/41
at Waseda University, Tokyo, Japan, expressed a desire, some time
ago, to purchase a copy of the film "Block That Temite" which
was in the mak ing at the time, and has just been released by this
894.4061mot
nte
Department.
If, in the interest of friendly relations, you believe
102
the sale of a print of this film is advisable, please so indicate
and we will take the necessary steps to comply with ir. Soshiroda's
wishes.
Yours very truly,
m.Rhiresm
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 2 7 1940
Director of Extension Work.
Department of State
MAY 11940
FILED
Iou
Forwarded, Office of Foreign
SON of 200
Agricultural Relations
ORICETYOUS
APR 30 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
F/A
X

=== Page 118 === (confidence 1.00)
SUMMARY OF PREVIEW OF MOTION PICTURE FILM
TITLE: Block that Termite
PRODUCED BY: Department of Agriculture
DATE SEEN
OFFICER
DIVISION
RATING
TECHNICAL QUALITY
April 18, 1940
I.A. Wright
RC
A
Excellent
J.B. Keating
IN
A
Good
Alice B. Correll
RP
A
Excellent
E.T. Wailes
Eu
A
Exc ellent
Miss Christenson
FE
A
Excellent
Miss Holland
NE
No objection
Mr. Welmsley
RA
A
Good
SUMMARY OF RATING:
INTERESTED DEPARTMENT NOTIFIED
(Date letter is drafted)

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
PREVIEWING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTION PICTURE FILM
RODUCED BY: Department of
DATE SEEN
April 18, 1940
Agriculture
TITLE: Block that Termite
RELEASED: 1940
REELS: 2 16 mm.
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TÉCHNICOLOR
CONTENT: This picture explains what termites are, shows them in
action; illustrates careless building operations which invite
termites to destroy; and demonstrates plainly how termites
may be eradicated and the damege they have done repaired and
avoi ded.
cn
Division of
3
FAR EASTS
A
APR27 1940
Depactrment of State
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT:
RC I. A. Wright
Eu
Mr. Wai les
IN Mr. Keating
FE
Viss Christenson
RP Mrs.-Correll
NE
RA Mr. Walmsley
RATING:
A-Suitable for foreign
C-Unsuitable for
circulation under all
foreign circulation.
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
TECHNICAL QUALITY: Excellent
Good
Mediocre
Poor
REASON FOR RATING:
Because it deals interestingly with a
matter of importance in many comuunities.
wnight
Date of Report:
(Sighature of prefiewing officer
April 20, 1940
for the Diviston of RQ
Please fill in trip-
licate; return two
to RC; retain one.
08

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.94)
TEWING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTTON PICTURE FIT
DATE SEEN
TITLE
RELEASED:
REELS:
16 mm.
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TECHNICOLOR
CONTENT:
mie pieture explaine whet temites are, chowe thena
illmstvates eareless beilaing operations which imvite
se destroy, mee demonstrates plainly hes termites
aradleated and the damege they have dene repet ree sne
Division of
FAB EASTERN AFFAIRS
APR 27 1940
Department of State
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT:
Eu Mr. Wailes
IN M Xensing
FE Mia Chr
RP Bra. Garrall
NE
RA Mr talmaley
RATING:
A-Suitable for foreign
C-Unsuitable for
circulation under all
foreign circulation
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
TECHNICAL QUALITY: Excellent
Good
Mediocre
Poor
REASON FOR RATING:
Has universal appeal since it relates
to home building - is instruotive as a prophylaxis
and remedy against terms
97 Kean
Date of Report!
(Signature of previlewing officer
4/22/40
for the Division of
Please fill in trip-
licater return two
to Ret retain one.
(Chief or Assistant Chief of Divipion)

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
PREVIEWING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTION PICTURE
ODUCED BY:
Department of
DATE SEEN
Apr1l 18, 1940
Agriculture
TITLE: Blook that Termite
RELEASED: 1940
REELS: 2 16 mm.
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TECHNICOLOR
CONTENT: This pieture explains what termites are, shows them in
action; illustrates careless building operations whioh invite
termites to destroy; and demonstrates plainly how termites
may be eradieated and the damage they have done repaired and
avoided.
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFAIRS
APR 27 1940
Department of State
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT:
RC I. A. Wright
Eu Mr. Wailes
IN Mr. Keating
FE Miss Christenson
RP Mrs. Correll
NE
RATING:
A-Suitable for foreign
C-Unsuitable for
circulation under all
foreign circulation.
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
TECHNICAL QUALITY: Excellent
Good
Mediocre
Poor
REASON FOR RATING:
CClice B Correee
Date of Report:
(Signature of previewing officer
Apr12222, 1940
for the Division of
Please fill in trip-
licate; return two
to RC; retain one.
beope V. S
(Chief or Assistant Chief of Division)

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
PREVIEWING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTION PICTURE FILM
PRODUCED BY: Department of
DATE SEEN
April 18, 1940
Agriculture
TITLE: Bloek that Termite
RELEASED: 1940
REELS: 2 16 mm.
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TECHNICOLOR
CONTENT: This picture explains what termites are, shows them in
action; illustrates careless building operations which invite
termites to destroy; and demonstrates plainly how termites
may be eradicated and the damage they have done repaired and
avoided.
Division of
FAB EASTERN ALLAIRS
APR27 1940
Departront of Sute
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT:
RC I. A. Wright
Eu Mr. Wailea
IN Mr. Keating
FE Miss Christenson
RP
Mrs. Correll
NE
RA
Mr. Walmaley
RATING:
X A-Suitable for foreign
C-Unsuitable for
circulation under all
foreign circulation.
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
X
TECHNICAL QUALITY: Excéllent
Good
Mediocre
Poor
REASON FOR RATING:
stwais
Date of Report:
(Signature of previewing officer
Ofarie 18,1940
for the Division of
Please fill in trip-
licate; return two
to RC; retain one.
℃
(Chief or Assistant Chief of Division)

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.94)
WING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTION PICTURE FILM
SUCED BYI
DATE SEEN
Aprm1 18, 1940
TITLE:
RELEASED: 1940
REELS:
16 mm.
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TECHNICOLOR
CONTENT:
é msture explains what termites are, shows shem énm
trates emreless building operatioas whioh invite
destreri and demomstrates plainly how termites
ay be eradieated and the damage they have done repaired and
Division of
FAR EASTLAR ARS
APR 27 1940
Department of State
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT:
RCI.
Eu Mr. Wailea
FE Mias Christensen
RP Mrs. Garrall
NE
RA  Valmaley
RATING:
A-Suitable for foreign
C-Unsuitable for
circulation under all
foreign circulation.
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
TECHNICAL QUALITY:
Excellent
Good
Mediocre
Poor
REASON FOR RATING:
The sulgest of this film is partienlarly suitable
for showing in Liberia.
Mo objertio
Aoamy C. Hollard
Date of Report:
Ayil22,1940.
(Signature of previewing officer
for the Division of
NE
Please fill in trip-
licateg return two
to RC; retain one.
(Chief or Assistant Chief of Division)

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
PREVIEWING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTION PICTURE FILM
RODUCED BY:
Department of
DATE SEEN
April 18, 1940
Agriculture
TITLE: Blook that Termite
RELEASED: 1940
REELS: 2 16 mm.
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TECHNICOLOR
CONTENT: This picture explains what termites are, shows them in
action; illustrates careless building operations which invite
termites to destroy; and demonstrates plainly how termites
may be eradicated and the damage they have done repaired and
avoided.
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT:
RC I. A. Wright
Eu Mr. Wailea
IN Mr. Keating
FE Miss Christenson
RP Mrs. Correll
NE
RA Mr. Walmsley
RATING:
A-Suitable for foreign
C-Unsuitable for
circulation under all
foreign circulation.
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
TECHNICAL QUALITY: Excellent
Good
Mediocre Poor
universal interest and is presented in an inter
Ethel J. Christenson
Date of Report:
(Signature of previewing officer
for the Division of EE
Please fill in trip-
licate; return two
to RC; retain one.
(Chief or Assistant Chief of Division)

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.95)
VIEWING OFFICER'S REPORT ON MOTION PICTURE FILM
April 18, 1948
DATE SEEN
RELEASED: 1000
TITLET
shat Toraite
REELS:
16 mm,
35 mm.
SOUND
SILENT
TÉCHNICOLOR
CONTENT: Thie pieture empleims what sermites are, showe them im
illmssreses sareless building operasioms whish inrate
ses se destroys and domonstpates plainly how Sermites
be eradieated and the damnge they have done repalred and
MEMBERS OF PREVIEW COMMITTEE PRESENT
RC .A Wr
Eu
Mr. Walles
Niss Christomson
IN
FE
NE
RA
Mr. Walmaley
RATING:
C-Unsuitable for
X A-Suitable for foreign
foreign circulation.
circulation under all
circumstances.
B-Suitable for foreign
circulation under
specified circumstances.
Good
Mediocre
Poor
TECHNICAL QUALITY: Excellent
Interesting, instructive and well
REASON FOR RATING:
assembled. An important problem well treated.
Millsuurey s't
Date of Report:
(Signature of previewing officer
for the Division of
RA
Apr11 22, 1940
Please fill in trip-
licate; return two
to RC: retain one.
(Chief er Assistant Chief of Division)

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.88)
April 29 1940
mreer
Meel Notien
894.4061
894. 4061 MOTION
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
The reselpt 1s aakmowledged of a commucication
Gated April 9, 1940 from the director of Extension
Work stating that Mr. Sabure Soshiroda, assistant
prefesser of arehitecture at Waseda University, Tekye,
Japan, desires to purohase a print of the motion
pleture film entitled Bloek that Termite which has
just been released by the Department of Agrieulture.
P
ICTURES/41
Offieers of the Department of stats whe have seen
thie pieture pereeive no objeotion to 1ts diaplay is
Japan.
simeerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
EGX CR
Breekimriage Leng
AFR
29 1940PL
Assistant Beeretary
 y 
The Remerable
the sisn
Neury A. Wallase,
neugub
F
seeretary ef Agrleal tare.
N
mm.A
4/24.
RO : ZAW : XP

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Motion pictures made in Japan.
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES
Conversation with Paul R. Elliott who is inter-
ested in showing films made in other countries.
He stated he has been in Japan where every
facility for taking cultural pictures of the
country was given, even to the extent of
funds to meet his expenses.
ge
For the original paper from which reference is taken
/42
See
Memo
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, eta.)
State Dept.
From
Dated
Apra.23.1940
CR (Wright)
To
File No.
810.42711 F11ma/270
U. 8. GOVNNT PRING OIC 1—1540

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ION OFFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 10, 1940.
Reforence Tokyo's despatch no. 4733,
ay 51, 1940, entitled "Restriotions on
Importations of American Moving Piotures".
It will be recalled that in January of
thim year Colonel Herron of the Motion
Pieture Producers and Distributors of
America, Inoorporated, approached the
Department for assistance in regard to
difficulty which American distributors
were having in importing into Japan
American moving pictures and in remitting
to the United States their profits.
The Embassy reports that the diffi-
culties of the American distributors have
not been resolved; that the Embassy has
been in close and frequent touoh with the
distributors; but that assistance by the
Embassy untii recently was virtually im-
possible beoause the distributors stood
by the position that they had conoluded
an "agreement" with the Japanese Govern-
ment by which the latter would permit
the importation over a specified period
of a specified number of American motion
pictures. It will be recalled that the
validity of this "agreement" is very much
in doubt.
The

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2
The Embassy informed the distributors
that it could not take action on the basis
of a dooument which was not an agreement
but merely an indication of a polioy
whioh the competent Japanese authorities
"expeoted to follow". Nevertheless the
Embassy, realizing that the distributors
could not lay the plans for future opera-
tions without knoiing the intentions of
the Japanese Government with respeot to
imports offered to approach the Japanese
Government on that basis asking for some
indioation as to the plans of the Govern-
ment in that regard. The distributors
aoquiesced in that suggestion and the
Embassy has made such an approach.
2n
FE:JMJpnes:BLS

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, May 31, 1940.
Division of
F EAST
No. 4733
SUBJECT:
RESTRICTIONS ON IMPORTATIONS OF AMERICAN
894.406I MOTION PICTURES/43
MOVING PICTURES.
ÉEPAA   STA
16
1940 U M 31
OMUIATIONS
N DS
EE
DIVISIN OF
Yes
No
150
For Distribution-Cheek
Grade 
In U S A.
For
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Crf cu
DIUSION oF
JULT1940
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's con-
UL 16 1940
fidential instruction no. 1887 dated January 31, 1940
FILED
(894.4061 Motion Pictures/36), with which there were
enclosed copies of papers relating to the restrictions
imposed
F/N

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
imposed in Japan on the importation of American moving
pictures and on the remitting to the United States of
profits in Japan of American moving picture distributors.
The Embassy has been in close and frequent touch with
the American distributors, but until very recently the
position taken by the American distributors was such that
intervention by the Embassy on their behalf would not
have been expected to serve any useful purpose. Their
position was, in short, that they had concluded an "agreement*
with the Japanese Government by which the latter would
permit the importation over a specified period of a specified
number of American motion pictures. In the memorandum of
conversation on January 3, 1940, between officers of the
Department and Colonel Herrron, a copy of which is enclosed
with the Department's instruction under reference, there
occurs the statement by Colonel Herron that "he and his
associates have discovered that Mr. Hisaji Kubo, the Japanese
who 'negotiated the agreement' between the association
and the Japanese Ministry of Finance, is a crook' and
the association has ceased dealing with him. If one can
assume that Colonel Herron was fully apprised of the
extended dealings which the local distributors had with
Kubo, the conclusion is inescapable that Colonel Herron
was something less than entirely frank with the Department.
Mr. A. E. Daff, Far Eastern Supervisor of Universal
Pictures (Japan), informed us, that the distributors'
association had several interviews with Kubo to agree on
the terms on which he (Kubo) would undertake to procure
the "agreement" from the Department of Finance, that Kubo
originally demanded Yen 100,000 which, he claimed, would
1eave

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
leave him little after he had crossed the palm of the
Minister of Finance, but that he had finally agreed to
accept Yen 30,O00. The distributors were quite aware
from the beginning that they were dealing with a most
unsavory character, for they went to the trouble of
taking a stenographic record of each of their interviews
with Kubo, and the statement of Colonel Herron (assuming
that he was aware of the dealings of his associates in
Japan) that Kubo was "discovered" to be a "crook", con-
sorts poorly with the facts.
In any event, as it was clear to us that the hands
of the distributors were none too clean, we informed the
distributors that the Embassy could not make representations
to the Japanese Government on the basis of a document
which, on its face, was not an agreement but merely an
indication of a policy which the competent Japanese
authorities "expected" to follow with regard to permitting
the importation of films over a stated period. On the
other hand, the Embassy stated to the distributors that
we realized that the failure of the Japanese Government
to indicate what its policy would be after the expiration
of the stated period, would effectively prevent the
distributors from laying out plans for their future opera-
tions in this country, and that the Embassy was prepared
to roquest the Japanese Government that the latter clarify
its position in the matter. After considerable hesitation
and delay, the distributors expressed desire that the
Embassy intervene along the lines above indicated. Ac-
cordingly, there was delivered to the Foreign Office on
May

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
May 25 a note, with memorandum annexed, a copy of which
is enolosed.
Mr. Daff has expressed, on behalf the distributors,
appreciation for the Embassy's cooperation.
The character of the means taken by the distributors
to procure the so-called "agreement" will be appreciated
when it is realized that the Kubo with whom they dealt is
the Kubo who is the subject of the Department's instruction
no. 1740, June 1, 1939.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ as stated.
85151
EHD:gt
Recsived
Original and iwo copies to the Department.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 4733 dated May 31, 1940,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The American Ambassador to the Japanese Minister for For-
eign Affairs.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 1556.
The American Ambassador presents his compliments
to His Excellency the Minister for Foreign Affairs and
has the honor to enclose a memorandum with regard to
the position of American distributors in Japan of motion
pictures.
Mr. Grew would appreciate an early and sympathetic
consideration bein? given to the matter presented in the
enclosed memorandum.
Tokyo, May 25, 1940.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
On August 18, 1937, a committee representing the
rican motion pioture companies operating in Japan was
informed verbally by an official of the Finance Ministry
that henceforth import permits would be required for all
foreign films imported into the country. On September 22,
the film companies were notified through the press that
the Finance authorities had decided to ban totally the
importation of all foreign films for the balance of the
year and the Finance authorities were also quoted as
having stated that the pan cn film imports "would probably
extend well into 1938".
Acting on instructions from their respective head
offices, the American film companies opened negotiations
with the Finance authorities in February, 1938, for an
alleviation of the ban on film imports. In July the
negotiations had progressed so satisfactorily that the
film companies were advised by the Finance Ministry to
make arrangements to have films shipped to Japan in order
that they could be cleared immediately on the issuance of
film import permits.
On Ootober 3, 1938, the American film companies were
informed, through their association, the American Motion
Picture Distributors Association of Japan, that the Finance
Ministry was prepared to consider the issuance of permits
for the importation of $30,000 worth of film prints and
between October 15, 1938 and December 31, 1938, permits
were actually granted for approximately $10,000 worth of
film prints. During l939, the Finance authorities issued
further permits for American films, the total value of
tho

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
the permits issued during the period frem Oetober 15,
1938, to the end of December, 1939, amounting to
19,792.16.
On March 18, 1940, the Finance authorities issued
permits for the importation of $1,4ll.94 worth of films
but since that date no further permits have been issued.
During the past two months the American film companies
have made repeated requests to the Finance authorities for
some indication as to when they may expect some action on
their outstanding applications for further permits. So
far they have been unable to obtain assurances that addi-
tional permits will be forthcoming in the immediate future.
As the American film companies are unable to make
definite operating plans for the future pending some indi-
cation on the part of the Finance authorities as to their
intentions regarding the issuance of film import permits,
they have requested the Embassy to endeavor to ascertain
from the Finance authorities, through the Foreign Office,
some indication as to when they may expect action on their
outstanding applications.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.95)
2048
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
NITED STATES OF AMERICA
1940 AUG 30 PM 3 28
AMERICAN EMBASSY
OF CULTURAL
D VISION OF
No. 4862
COMMUNICATIONS
w
AND RECORDS
July 22, 1940.
1940
SUBJECT: THE MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY IN JAPAN - 1939
C
Icong b. Com
Department of State
amt3
a
CORDING DES
Deperinort of le
IÓN OF
FILL
894.406I MOTION PICTURES/44
OUISION OF
INTEA
SEP 9-1940
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose as of possible interest to the
E
FILED
Department, and for transmission to the Motion Picture Division of the
9
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, a copy of a report entitl
Kaneko of the Osaka office of Kodak Japan Limited and submitted by the
Osaka Gonsulate.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador
Rovals w. Swillh
Donald W. Smith,
Assistant Commercial Attacke.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.92)
- 2 -
File No. 840.6
JKE/mB
Distribution:
Original and 2 copies to Department.

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
THE MOTION PICTURE INDUSTRY IN JAPAN - 1939
Activities of various motion picture enterprises as well as
the normal growth of the film industry in Japan were greatly handicapped
during the year 1939 due mainly to a very serious shortage of raw stocks.
This shortage is the result of
(1) Strict enforcement of exchange regulations which
seriously curtailed the supply of imported raw
film stocks.
(2) The inability of local manufacturers of raw films
to boost their production to an extent to completely
relieve the shortage.
Perhaps the most important development in the Japanese motion
picture industry during 1939 was the passage of the Motion Picture Law.
The detailed regulations governing the enforcement of the law comprise
58 articles, most of which were put into effect on October 1, the balance
becoming effective January 1, 1940.
The prime objective of the law is rigid control over production.
distribution, and exhibition for purposes of cultural advancement and of
promoting the sound development of Japan's motion picture industry.
Domestic producers are required to submit their scenarios for approval
prior to the time actual work is begun on the film. The showing of
cultural films will be compulsory and the industry is being utilized
for propagation of national ideals and thought. The distribution and
exhibition of foreign films will be greatly restricted, no theater being
allowed to exhibit more than 50 new foreign features a year.
The estimated import of raw stocks from foreign countries is
not more than 10% of the annual import before the *Incident". Raw
stocks are chiefly imported from America and Germany. Locally manufactured
raw

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
一2 -
raw stocks available to the industry consist of moderate speed panchromatic
negative, black and white positive, and sound recording positive. There
are no duplicating stocks mamufactured in Japan and because of shortages
of this sound recording positive and in some instances regular positive
have been employed for preparation of duplicate negatives.
The partial lifting of the ban on importation of foreign films
in October, 1938 has supplied this country with about 300 foreign pictures
including shorts by the end of 1939. During the year 1939 146 foreign
pictures were released in Japan.
Of the foreign pictures, American productions accounted for
114 films. This is a 10% increase over the same period of 1938, but
is only 42% of the films released during the one year previous to the
"Incident".
Approximately 35 German pictures were imported into Japan during
the year 1939. The major portion of these pictures were imported from
Manchukuo through the Manchukuoan Film Monopoly which had acquired the
pictures under a German-Manchukuo Trade Agreement. Only 10 German
productions were, however, reported to have been released during the year.
Other European pictures released during the year were 10 British, 10
French, and 2 Italian.
Although the shortage of raw stocks has hindered the normal
growth of the motion picture industry in Japan, the meterage that has gone
through censorship has been annually increasing. The total meters
censored during 1939 has been reported as 29,664,000. This is a 122%
increase over the sams period of l938. This increase in censored
meterage is due to the strict economy of film practiced by all producers
and the sudden inerease in the produetion of cultural films as well as
continued high production of newsreels and educational pietures.
During 1935 535 domestic productions were released in Japan.
Th1

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
This represents a drop of about 20% in the number of produetion when
compared with the average for the previous three years. Fully 50% of
the produetions are still of the historical or classical type while the
present Sino-Japanese Incident has offered some excellent themes for
modern type pictures and has been the source of some of the production
of the year.
With the installation of sound recording systems by two
producers during the year, all major studios are now producing sound
films. Expansion and building projects by domestic producers have been
dormant during the year due to rigid control over building materials
exercised by the government. Due to the difficulty of importing modern
equipment the studios in Japan are encountering much difficulty in re-
placing their old cameras and other studio equipment.
At the beginning of the year there were 1,885 theaters in
Japan. With few exceptions these are predominantly small buildings.
No large theaters were constructed during the year because of rigid
control over building materials. More than 90% of theaters are wired
for sound, the greater portion of which being locally manufactured systems.
There has been a noticeable penetration of Japanese motion
pioture interests into Manchukuo and China. Production and distribution
of motion pictures in Manchukuo is controlled by Manchukuoan Film
Monopoly which is under the guidance of Japanese erecutives and technicians.
No definite figures are available on their production, but it is estimated
that eight to ten major productions were completed during 1939. During
the year 497 Japanese films were exported to Manchukuo. A large number
of Japanese films are also being exported to China, particularly into
the northern parts where many theaters are under the control of Japanese
interests.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 8, 1940.
Yokohama's 708, September 10,
1940, Importation of American News
Films to be Stopped.
The Consul reports that after
October 2, 1940, foreign news films
will not be permitted in Japan.
The Consul at Yokohama has long
favored the stopping by us of the
importation into the United States of
Japanese news films. During the year
July 1, 1939 to June 30, 1940,
198,391 feet of Japanese news film
was invoiced at Yokohama at a value
of $8,699 for importation into the
United States.
Comment: The present temper of
the American public would appear to
be such that any intended effect of
Japanese news reels unfavorable to
the United States when shown in this
country would be largely neutralized,
and that by consequence measures to
prevent importation are unnecessary.
894.4061 Motion Pictures/45
cc
FE:CovIlle:FR

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.92)
708
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Yokohama, Japan, September 10, 1940.
C4
Cofly in FE
DIVISION OF
No
INTERNATIONG UNCATIUNS
Grade
M
OCT22940 8
In U SA
For
Boyce
ONI
MID
SUBJECT:
IMPORTATION OF AMERICAN
11006 GPO
NEWS FILMS TO BE STOPPED
30
C
TIONS
894.406I MOTION PICTURES/45
E
F
2050
Viles
0
HE
EPARMEN
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
1940 0CT1
1
C0OMH
AND
WASHINGTON
CCT
SIR:
I have the honor to enclose herewith a copy of
a newspaper article appouring in the JAPAN TIMES on
September 9, 1940 stating that foreign news films,
note
including Paramount and Pathe news reels, will not be
894.00P
permitted in Japan after October 2, 1940.
The Department's attention is respectfully
referred to the following reports from this Consulate,
Departmght
COMMERCIADA
which show the extent to which Japanese news reels, and
OCT 2 6 1940
001.94940
FTLED
panese dubbed foreign news reels are exported to the
S
8,391 feet of Japanese news film were exported to the
United States from Yokohama, Japan. This was invoiced
at only $8,699. It is substantially loaded with Japa-
nese propaganda and Japanese war news. Some of the
films areespecially edited for children and are especially
π
designed to arouse pro-Japanese sentiments.
B
EXPORTS

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
EXPORTS OF JAPANESE MOVING
PICTURES TO THE UNITED
September 8, 1939
STATES
EXPORTS OF JAPANESE MOVING
PICTURES TO THE UNITED
STATES (SUPPLEMENTARY
REPORT)
October
31, 1939
JAPANESE EXPORTS OF ARTICLES
FOR CONSUMPTION BY JAPANESE
RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED
STATES
(Page 26)
October 31, 1939
JAPANESE EXPORTS OF ARTICLES
FOR CONSUMPTION BY JAPANESE
RESIDENTS OF THE UNITED
August
24, 1940
STATES
Respectfully yours,
ichard 
Richard F. Boyce,
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Copy of newspaper article appearine in the
JAPAN TIMES, Septomber 9, 1940.
840.6
RFB/rk
Distribution:
Original and 4 copies Department of State, Washington, D.C.
1 copy
Reporting Section, Tokyo.
1 copy
Files.

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.95)
C O E Y
THE JAPAN TIMES & MAIL
September 9,1940
Foreign News Films Barred from Japan
Under New Ruling
Officials of the home und Education Ministries
and the Cabinet Information Bureau at  conference
in the Tokyo Kuikan, Friday, under uusnices of the
Japan Motion Pictures  scociation, docided to ban
foreign news films, includins Paramount and Pathe
Nows roleascs after October ?, accordine to the
Nichi Nichi.
The revised motion picture rulan call for Jap -
nese news films in theators of cix le ding cities
from October 1, and in theuters in other places in
the country from January 1, le4l. Nows films to be
shown in theaters will be sanctioned by the Nippon
News Company and ill be solected by  committes of
members fron the Home, Sducation Ministries and the
Cabinet Informarion Bureau.
Theaters will huve to show at least one news
film in order to enli hten the people concerning
happerinvs at home and ubroad.
*
*
不

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.87)
1988
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
12/6
yor. The Walf
75 sres no offection
to sending u coky to Colonel
Herron, hut it wauld siem
likely that the raforima nion
wlich the dishsatch Contains
has long since bean mode
known to hin.
LN
DEC7-1940
fng

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.92)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
FB
Do you see any objection to
sending this to Colonel Herron
of the Hays organization?
EXOTERN AFF/IDS
DE06- 1940
FdeWolf
Department of State
12-5-40

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
8
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 3, 1940.
Reference Tokyo's 5123, November 1,
1940, entitled "Japanese Reply to American
Representations in Regard to Restrictions
on Importations of American Moving Pictures"
On May 25. 1940, Ambassador Grew made
representations to the Japanese Government
on behalf of American film companies who
desired information in regard to the Japa-
nese Government's intention with respect
to the issuance of permits for imports of
Amerioan films so that they could make
their plans for the future. On October ?
the Japanese Government replied, stating that
permits had been granted for the importa-
t1on of $2656 (and 72 cents) worth of
films, a very small fraction of normal
importations.
894.4061 Motion Pictures/46
FE:ones:FRE

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.92)
1989
Divisionpf
FAR EASTERN AGFAIRS
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
NOV 2 81940
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Deprrtment of State
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5123
Tokyo, November 1, 1940
SUBJECT:
JAPANESE REPLY TO AMERICAN REPRESENTATIONS
IN REGARD TO RESTRICTIONS ON IMPORTATIONS
OF AMERICAN MOVING PICTURES
894:4061 MOTION PICTURES/46
File
INTERNATIONAL CMMUNIC
12
19.
YH
No
For Distritution-Chock
Cirade
In
For
December 11, 1940
0    2 24
ii
C
S
C
C
L
DEPARIE
 EASTERN AFFAIRS
011940
Department of State
The Honorable
894.4061
The Seoretary of State
Washington
Sir:
89..
With reference to the Embassy's despatch no. 4733
EC1 1940
dated May 31, 1940, relating to the restrictions on the
PFILED
importations of American moving piotures into Japan
P
and enolosing a copy of the Embassy's third person note
to the Foreign Office dated May 25, 1940, transmitting a
memorandum

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
1990
-2-
memorandum with regard to the position of the
American distributors in Japan of motion pictures,
I have the honor to transmit herewith the translation
1/ of a reply from the Foreign Office, Confidential No.
160/Commercial V, dated October 7, 1940, informing the
Embassy that the Finance Ministry has, for the present,
granted permission under date of September 24, 1940,
for importations of American motion picture films not
exceeding the amount of $2656.72 in print cost.
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1 as stated
851.51
ESC:mg
Original and 2 copies to the Department

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Enolosure no. 1 to despatoh
no. 5123 dated November 1, 1940,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Matsuoka, to the
American Ambassador, Mr. Grew. (Translation)
Conridential
No. 160/Commercial V.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Tokyo, October 7, 1940
Excellency:
I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of Your
Excellency's note dated May 25, 1940, in which repre-
sentations are made with regard to the question of
importation into Japan of American motion-picture film.
I now have the honor to inform Your Excellency that a
request for intercession in the matter was immediately
addressed to the Ministry of Finance, and that a reply
has recently been received from that ministry to the
effect that for the present, permission has been
granted under date of September 24, 1940, for importa-
tions not exceeding the amount of 2,656 dollars 72 cents
in print cost.
I avail myself of this opportunity to renew to
Your Excellency the assurances of my highest consideration.
Yosuke Matsuoka,
Minister for Foreign Affairs,
(SEAL)
His Excellenoy
Joseph Clark Grew
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
of the United States of America

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.93)
1992
December 11, 1940
My dear Colonel Herron:
M
I enolose as of possible interest a copy of a
despatah of November 1, 1940, and of the enclosure
894.406I MOTION PICTURES/46
thereto, received from the American Embassy at Tokyo,
coneerning restrictions on the importation of American
motion piotures into Japan.
Binoerely yours,
For the Becretary of State:
Thomas Burke
Chier, Division of International Communlsatiems
Enclosure:
From Eabassy, Tokyo,
No. Sles, November i,
1940, with enolosure.
Colonel Frederiek L. Herron,
.1CB
Nesien Pieture Produoers and
Distributors of Ameriea, Ine.,
DEC 11 1940PM
PS/D
28 West 4eth Street,
of
New York, Now York.
the sigred rigi-
rmb
IN:FdoW:HGK 12/9/40

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
RTMENT OF STATE
ION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
December 3, 1940
Yokohama's despatch no. 723
of October 29, 1940, entitled,
"Japanese Propaganda", transmits
a resumé of Japanese propaganda
newsreels shipped to the Japanese
Theater Association, Inc., of Los
Angeles which includes items
showing the activities or the
Emperor, popular rallies celebrat-
ing Japanese adherence to the
Axis, views of the ast Asia
Reareation Congress, et cetera.
894.4061 Motion Pictures/47
从7
FE:Fales:FRE OJL

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.93)
AMERICAN CONSULATE,
Yokohama, Japan, October 29, 1940.
COPIES SENT TO
DIVISION OF
O.N.I. AND M.I.D.
12/4/40 R61
INTERNATIONN CONNUNCATIONS
DEC 6-1940
Division of
FAR EASTERN RFFAIRS
SPEJECT:
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA
Ghy m t,E,
Department of Sta
11055 GPO
No
6666
F.r
THE HONORABLE
Miscellmous
ONEMID
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
BoyCE
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to previous reports on
Japanese propaganda by short wave broadcasts and exports
of Japanese moving pictures to the United States, and
to enclose herewith a copy of the resumes of another
shipment of newsreels made by the Nichibei Kogyo Kaisha
89400P
of Yokohama to the Japanese Theatre Association Inc.
of Los Angeles, on the M.S.TATUTA MARU on October 30,
1940. The nature of the Japanese propaganda is clearly
indicated by the enolosed resumes.
Respectfully yours,
RuhardP
Richard F. Boyce,
0EC  194
FILED
American Consul.
Enclosure:
Copy of resumes.
840.6
RFB/rk
Distribution:
1 copy
Reporting Section, Tokyo.
1 copy
Files.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
ON MEWS, series No. 19" (news reel)
"HAT OFF"
H.M. the Emperor on Tuesday, October 8, graciously
visited Tokyo Imperial University in the expression
of a gracious wish to encourage academic and scienti-
fic development in Tokyo.
2. "HAT OFF"
H.M. the Emperor reviews grand fleet in commemorating
26th centenary.
In Yokohama.
3. Citizens of Tokyo rallied at six places in the capital
on Sunday, October 13, to celebrate the inauguration of
the Taisei Yokusan Kai and the conclusion of the tri-
partite treaty of alliance.
In Tokyo.
4. Chiang-assisting on the Burma Routo fear bombing by
Nippon Plances.
-End-
"NIPPON NEWS, series No. 20" (new reel)
1. "HAT OFF"
H.M. the Emperor and the Empress were pleased to visit
the celebration of Yasukuni Shrine.
In Tokyo.
2. "HAT OFF"
H.M. the Emperor, as Supreme Commander of the Imperial
army, reviewed the tropps in the metropolitan district,
some 50,Oo0 strong, at the Yoyogi parade ground, Tokyo.
In Tokyo.
3. The Nippon-Netherland East Indies economic conference
which finished its fourth week yesterday is apparently
on the right track in the sense that the themes of the
negotiations, have come to tackle the backbone of the
economic questions.
In Batavia.
4. People of ll different countries, including four authori-
ties specially invited from Germany and Italy, partici-
pated in the East Asia Recreation Congress held in and
around Osaka, which ended successfully on Saturday, October
19.
In Osaka.
--End--
"ASAHI HOME GRAPH NO. 52"
1. There lives many "Sea Cat" in this island at neighbouring
of Yaedo, Aomori.
In Aomori.
2. This machine force activing as to stamp out young peoples
consumption.
3. Natural gas generating at O-taki, Chiba.
In Chiba.
-End

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.96)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
CE!VED 28 WEST 44TH STREET
1940 DES 14 AM 9 42
FREDKRICK L. HERRON
FOREIGN MANAGER
December 12, 1940
NNS
AND RECORDS
Mr. Thomas Burke, Chief,
WDEC1319
Division of International Communications,
Department of State,
894.406I-MOTION PICTURES/48
CATMENT OF STATE
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Burke:
Thank you for your letter of the llth enclosing copy
of despatch dated November 1, 1940 relative to the re-
strictions on the importation of American motion pictures
into Japan.
Very sincerely,
894.4061 M.P
0E 15 1940
PS/FF

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
DEC 301940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This telegram must be
Tokyo via Shanghai &
closely paraphrased DE-
fore being communicated
Dated December
to anyonE. (br)
FROM
LEGAL ADVISER
C1 1ever/50
Division of
FAR EATERAFFAIRS
06I-MOTION PICTURES/49
DIVISION OF COMMERCIAL
7H
DEC 26 1940
JAN 61941
Telegium
Deprrtment of State
1369, DEcembEr 24, 11 a.m.
/a/4o
Association, New York:
"With referencE to bonds and National City Bank
matter after consulting Embassy wE strongly recommend
that you contact StatE DEpartment immediately with the
possibility bringing pressurE on National City Bank to
rEtain our funds. JapanEsE national bonds arE dangErous
investment owing international aspects and possible
inability of thE JapanesE GovernmEnt to fulfill their
μP
agrEEmEnts. Signed Ampica."
Pe
PS/FF
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
JAN 1 6 194
JAN -2 1941
TFV
GREW
SION OF
APR 1- 194
DEPARTMENT OF

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.93)
JAN16 19417
DEPARTMENT OF STATL
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EK
Tokyo via Shanghai & Ny
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrased be-
Dated December 247.1940
forE being communioated
to anyonE. (br)
FROM
REc'd 1:18 a.m., 25.
Telogan
VII   ERCIA
SENT
Searetary of State,
Division of
LEGAL ADYISER
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
1941
II
Washington.
JAN17 1941
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF S.ATc
JNG
1370, DEcember 24, noon.
894.4061-MOTION PICTURES/5ALD
ReferencE Embassy's 1369, December 24 11 a.m.
This mEssagE for thE Motion PicturE Producers
Association was transmitted at thE requEst of thE local
American motion picturE companies as a matter of pre-
caution. Members of my staff this morning received
rEpresEntatives of American motion picturE companies and
89440611
werE informed that the National City Bank has rEquested
js
thE withdrawal of about 8,000,000 yEn in cash bElonging
89451
to thesE companies. The bank proposEs that thE funds bE
WITHOUT RECOURSE
dEposited with thE Bank of Japan to thE National City
Bank. ThE only altErnativE is for thE AmErican companies
to purchasE JapanesE national bonds on a promised written
JAN17
guaranteE of rEdemption at facE valuE and pErmission to
OCA
remit thE interest of 32% to thE United States. MEmbers
ment would not look with favor on any American concern
investing its funds in JapanesE national bonds. They
werE advisEd to havE their New York principals gEt in touoh
with the Department in Washington.
Sent to the Department via Shanghai.
EMB
GREW
hapetition raquested on above garbled group.

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.90)
3
7
三
31,1940
In roply refer to
C
 894.4061 Motion Piotures/50
4
●
1.
C
C
My dear Colonel Herron:
The Department has reoeived from the Amerioan
Embassy at Tokyo for tranemission to you at the request
of the Amerioan Motion Pioture Companies Assooietion of
Japan a message to the following effeot:
After ooneulting the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo in
regard to the bond and National City Bank matter, it is
C
strongly reoommended that you get in touoh with the De-
C
partment of State at onoe with a view to possible aotion
toward bringing pressure upon the National Oity Bank to
keep our deposite. Owing to the international aspeots
C
7
and pessible inability of the Japanese Government to
7
fulfill their agreemente, Japanese national bonds are a
rieky investment.
The
Colonel Frederiok L. Herron,
Motion Pioture Producers and Distributore
of Ameriea, Inoorporated
28 West Forty-fourth Street,
Now York, Now York.

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.93)
2
The foregoing message is not entirely olear to the
Department, and it is assumed that in oase you wish to
approach the Department of State in regard to the
situation discussed in the message undar referenee you
will be in position to give us beokground information.
Sineerely yours,
For the Becretary of State:
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Ohiof
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
DEC
31
FE:YAS:HKS
13-28,30

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.94)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
RECEIVED
28 WEST 44TH STREET
:FAHTMENT OF STATE
New York Crty
/N
JANAM  51
FREDERICK L. HERRON
January 2, 1941.
FOREIGN MANAGER
vr
MMUNICATIONS
Teleqranm
C
AND RECORDS
file
X4
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
In reference to your letter of December 3lst regarding
the message received through our Embassy in Tokio from the
representatives of our companies there, we discussed this
at length here at a Foreign Managers' meeting of the repre-
sentatives of the companies and it was decided that it was a
matter that each company would have to take care of indi-
vidually, that it was not a group proposition.
Some com-
panies did not have their money in the National City Bank
and others felt that they could straighten this matter out
to their own satisfaction in their own way and don't care to
expose their hands to the other companies.
The case is a little bit unusual but I presume the tre-
mendous sums of frozen money that our companies have piled
up in Tokio over a period of three or four years has resulted
in a condition which the banks do not like.
any thanks for your kindness in passing this message
on to us, and with best personal wishes for the New Year, I
am,
JAN171
Most sincerely,
1941
Frudman G.
894
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL CONICATIONS
DEPARTMFNT OF STATE
JAN 1 3 1941
DEPARTMENT F RTE

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 6, 1941.
According to Tokyo's 148, January 31,
6 p.m., the Paramount motion picture firm in
Tokyo has been "definitely instructed to in-
vest in Japanese national bonds". The Embassy
feels that, if one firm takes this step, added
pressure will be exerted on other American
pioture concerns and all American concerns
having funds frozen in Japan. The Embassy
suggests that the Department may wish to
emphasize to the Paramount company its
policy regarding the purchase of Japanese
national bonds.
It is suggested that Mr. Hamilton tele-
phone to Colonel Brederick L. Herron in New
York, with whom we have had contact in the
past, and reemphasize this Department's policy
with respect to the purchase of Japanese na-
tional bonds by American firms and discuss
with him whether Colonel Herron may appropri-
ately pass this word on to the Paramount com-
pany or whether it would be desirable in addi-
tion to telephone directly either to Mr.
Adolph Zukor, Chairman of the Board, or Mr.
Barney Balaban, President of Paramount
Pictures, Incorporated, 150l Broadway,
Paramount Building, New York.
894.A067 Motion Pictures/52

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HSM
Tokyo
This telegram must be
Dated January 31,
closely paraphrased
before bEing communi-FROM
cated to anyonE. (Br.)
Rec'd 11:10 a. m.
15t
Diricion of
DECLF OF THE AFVISER ON
1941
Washington DEPARTMENT OF STATE of Sae
148, January 31, 6 p. m.
MOTION PICTURES/52
Refer Department's telegram 36, January 15, 9 p.m.
Paramount is the only motion picture firm here
definitely instructed to invest in JapanesE national
bonds. The Embassy feels if one firm takes this step
added pressure will bE Exerted not only on other
American picture concerns but also on all American
894.4061M.P.
firms having funds frozen here. It is thought that
the Department may wish to Emphasize again to Para-
mount its policy regarding the purchasE of Japanese
national bonds.
GREW
B191941
TFV
FILED
894.4061 Motion Pictures/51
PS/GC
DIVISION OF
MK. HORNBECK
ADVISER
FEB121941
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FEB 17 1941
DEPARTMEN F SATE

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM
DIVISION OF FORBIGN
SERVICEADEANISTRATION
GRAY
Tokyo
DEPARTMENT OF PATE
Division of
FAR EASTERN. AFFAIRS
FEB 4-1941
Rec³d 2:05 a. m.
Department of State
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES/53
MR. HORNDEL
OFFICE OF THE ADVI
UNTERNATIONAL ECON
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF SIA!!
HFEB-5 1941
DEPARTMER
152, FEbruary 1, noon.
FOLLOWING FOR HUIEL, WARNER BROTHERS, 321 WEST
44th STREET, NEW YORK:
"In view of the seriousness of the present
894.4061M.P.
situation it would be appreciated if you would forward
definite instruotions regarding the ExpensE of the
company's affairs, the staff, and myself in the Event
of an emergency. Such instructione should be forwarded
EEB111
Bigned Shathin."
GREW
EB

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.92)
Rebruary 
In reply refer to
7
7A 894.4061 Motion Piotures/53
894.4061 MOTI ON PICTURES/53
Warner Brothers,
321 West 44th Street,
New York, New York.
Sirs:
There is enolosed a copy of a telegram from the
American Embassy at Tokyo, Japan containing a mess-
age for "Hummel".
Very truly yours,
For the Secretary of State:
Nathaniel P. Davis
Chief, Division of
Foreign Service Administration
Enslosure: From Embassy, Tokyo,
telegram No. 152,
Pebruary 1.
FEB
8
N
EA
PA/H
A the opy of
FE
FA MH
Wn
Inal.
ar
att

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
28 W.VE 44TH STREET
TMNEWOY ORHA ITY
1941 FEB 17 PM 5 52
CABLE ADDRESS
REDERICK L. HERRON
FREDHERRON - NEW YORY
FOREIGN MANAGER
N
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER AND RECORDS
February 14, 1941
INTERNATIONAL ECONUMIC AFFAIRS
Cofpijy sent to Soky
MAR - 3 1941
OEPARTMENT OF STATE
ey
406I MOTiON PICTURES/54
Mr. axwell M. Hamilton, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. lamilton:
I just have your letter of February l3th relative to the
investment of Paramount's representative in Japanese National
Bonds.
At the time this matter was brought up the Foreign Managers
all agreed here that the matter of how the companies invested
their monies was something for the individual company to handle,
and while they appreciated advice on the matter, they thought
that nothing should be done as a group. As a result of that
14
meeting I know that different companies sent out instructions
to their representatives in Japan, most of which were guided by
the information contained in your letter of December 31, 1940.
In the case of Paramount I don't imagine that they placed
very much money in the purchase of these Japanese bonds and pro-
bably only did so upon pressure which they felt they could not
resist as it has been impossible a great deal of the time to
deal with the Japanese overnment in regard to our product there
because of the fact that they did not live up to their agreements
made at different times with our companies.
FILED
/ I am passing on to the companies this additional information
which was just received by you.
Very sincerely,
6
C

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.96)
ENT OF STATE
OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 13, 1941.
Welles.
This letter is routed
to you for scrutiny and
approval before being
despatched.
m.m.d
EB 12 1941
LES
FE:

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.95)
February 18, 1941
My dear Colonel Merron:
894.4061
You will recall that on December 31 I wrote you
communieating to you at the request of the Americam
Motion Pieture Companies Associatiom a message from sheir
representative in Japan in whioh the statement was made
MOTION
that Japanese national bonds are a riaky investment.
In this regard, the Ambassador at Tokyo reported to
the Department that on Deommber 24 members of his staff
reseived representetives or the Amerisan motion pieture
PICTURES
companies and advised these representatives that the
Department would not look with favor on any meriean eon-
cern investing its funds in Japanese national bonds.
S
The Embassy at Tokyo now reports that the Paramount
representative has been instructed to 1avest in Japamese
masional bonds. It is apparent that the purehase ef
Japanese national bonds by one company tends to Lead to
greater
Golenel Frederiek L. Herron,
Motion Pieture Predueers and Distributers
LOC
of Amsriea, Ineorporated
za WestsForty-fourth Street.
New York. New York.
6

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.86)
greater pressure en the remaiaing cempanies se follow
sust, espselally as the Japenese authoritiem have
during the past twe or three yeare wade offorse to
pereuads Ameriean firms engaged in busimess in Japam
to purehase Japanese national bonds.
In view of the foregoing eiroumstanees the Departo
mont woald appreoiate it if you would be so good as to
bring this wetser to the attention of the Paramount
aompany and perhaps of other concermed Ameriean motiom
pioture companies.
Sincerely yours,
For the Searatary of State:
—7.7
Maxwell M. Hamilton
Chief
Division of Jar mstern Affairs
J
4
CR
U
13 1941
A treof
the hed orig.
ax
FE(JWB:JPS/HES
A
PA/B
2-11
4

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.93)
February 28, 1941
CONFIDENTIAL - STAVE USE ONLY
-2127
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
894.4061
Tokyo.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Embassy's
telegram (no. 148) of January 31, 194l and previous
MOTION
correspondenee in regard to the matter of investment
in Japanese national bonds by the Paramount represent-
ative in Tokyo, and eneloses for the confidential
information of the American Ambassudor a copy of a
P
Ratter of February 13, 194l to Colonel Frederiek L.
1C
Herron of Motion Picture Producers and Distributors
TURES/
of Ameriea, Inoorporated, together with a copy of
Colonel Herron's reply thereto of February 14.
4
Enolosures:
1. To Colonel Herron,
February 13, 1941.
2. From Colonel Herron,
February 14, 1941.
894.4061 Motion
Pictures/54
C
A true copy of
24 1941
the sland arigl-
nal
mmH

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.95)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA. INC.
28 WEST 44TH STREET
New YOrk CITY
WILL H. HAYS
PRESIDENT
CARL E. MILLIKEN
MARN1 1941
SECRETARY
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
March 18, 1941
AGVISER O
Mr. maxwell M. Hamilton, Chief,
MAR 20 1941
Division of Far Easturn Affairs,
UL PARTMINT OF STATE
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Thank you for your letler of the 17th relative to
Paranount's representative in Tokio instructing his home
office to invest in Japanese uoverrnent bonds.
Very sncerely
MAR 21 1941
FILHD
PS
/JHS
D

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.95)
CABLE ADI
01010
WARNERBROS
Tel to Jokyo ra
Ar Warner Brany
=e6.12/41
PICTURES, INC.
321 WEST 44TH STREET
—201.
NEw YORFebruary 12, 1941
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
WEST COAST STUDIOS
FOREIGN DEPARTMENT
RECEIVED
BURBANK,CAL.
February 10, 1941
FEB13 1941
Secretary of State
111941
894.406
Washington, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Attention: Nathaniel P. Davis
Chief, Division of
Foreign Service Administration
Dear Sir,
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Thank you for your letter of February 6th, with which you
1841
enclosed a copy of the telegram received from the American
Embassy at Tokyo, which contained a message for our
Department of State
Mr. Hummel, from our office in Tokyo.
ON PICTURES/ 55
In view of the subject matter contained in the cable, will
you please transmit, through the Embassy in Tokyo, the
following message, to our Mr. Shathin:-
Shathin - General Manager, Warner Bros. - Tokyo
DONT UNDERSTAND MEANING YOUR CABLE FIRST THEREFORE
REQUEST FURTHER CLARIFICATION BEFORE CAN GIVE ANY
INSTRUCTIONS
HUMMEL
Please render to us your bill for cable charges in transmitting
this message which we will gladly remit to you in the usual
manner.
FILHD
Very truly yours
Nareg Mace nes
Karl G. Macdonald
G
D.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.94)
February 12, 1941
In reply refer to
FA
Warner Brothers Pictures, Inc.,
321 West 44th Street,
894.4061 MOTION
New York, New York.
Sirs:
Acknowledgement is mede of the recei
of your
letter of February 10, 1941 and the message contained
therein for Mr. Shathin, General Manager of your
Tokyo office from "Hummel" has been communioated to
1ts destination through the American Embassy at Tokyo.
PICTURES/55
A statement of the cost of the cablegram will be
mailed to you in due course.
Very truly yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
Nathaniel P. Davis
Chief, Diviaion of
HB 12 2847M
Foreign Service Administration
Jy
A truc copy
e sgned
FA MH
P
inal.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.96)
Letti
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
to Col.
Division of
FROM
MARd
HSM
Tokyo
This telegram must bE
Dated March 7, 1941
closely paraphrased
before being communi-
cated to anyone. (Br.)
Rectd 7:39 a. m.
FOFILE OF THE ADVISER ON
SEcretary of State,
INTERNAIONAL ECONMIC AF
MAR151941
894.4061-MOTION PiCTURES/56
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
371, March 7, 6 p. m.
Embassy's 148, January 31, 6 p. m.
Am informed by Paramount's representativE that
hE placed a purohasE order yesterday for an undis-
olosed amount of JapanesE Government bonds.
GREW
RR
894.4061 Motion Piotures/
MAR:21 1941
FILED
AR191941
DEPART
OF

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.89)
Mach 17, 1941
My Gear Gelenel Herren:
Referense is made to the Dopartment's letter to
894.4061
you of February 13, 1941, in regard to a report from
the Embassy at Tokyo that the Paramount representative
in Japan had been instruoted by hie home office to
invest in Japanese Government bends.
MOTION
The representative in Japan of the Paramount Gam-
pany has now informed Ambassader Grew that he plased a
purebase order on March 6 for un undiselesed amount of
Japanese Government bonds, In the light of the Depart-
P
mont's attitude as set forth in previous communications
CTURES
te you, the Department views this dovelopment wish regret.
The Department's general attitude in this matter
remains as prevlously set forth.
Sinserely yours,
5
9
For the Seuretary of states
7.7/√.
Maell X. Kamilten
chief
Division of Far Easterm Affaire
ary
inal
MAR 15 1949
oer
Bow York. Wow York.
att
PA/d
A-15
FE:SEJIHES
OC
s=is,4

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
28 WEST 44TH STREET
Copy ent to Sohyo
New York CitY
Tmay 28
WILL H. HAYS
avid
LVEICOL. FREDERICK L. HERRON
PRESIDENT
MANAGER
CARL E. MILLIKEN
AN LEAVE FOR MILITARY DUTY)
SECRETARY
FID EASTERN AFRAIRS
WA
March 26, 1941.
OFFICE OF F 
April 2, 1941
INTERNAION
APR-2 1941
FOLITICAL
NK. HORNBECK
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1-1941
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.4061 MOTI0
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
May 29, 1941 56
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Referring further to your letter of March 17th to
Colonel Herron, I am attaching hereto copy of a letter
just received from Mr. Hicks of Paramount Fictures Inc.,
relative to their representative's purchase of Japanese
bonds.
Very sincerely,
Acting Foreign Manager
APR 3 1941
CTURES/57
FILED
894.4061M.P.
49-56
LOC

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
P
Y
PARAMOUNT PICTURES INC.
1501 Broadway
New York City.
March 21, 1941
Gov. Carl E. Milliken,
Motion Picture Prod. & Distr. of America, Inc.,
New York, N. Y.
My dear Governor Milliken:
Your letter of arch 20th plus the enclosure of copy of
letter dated March 17th from Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton to Colonel
Herron has been received. Herewith the chronology of the pur-
chase by Paramount Films, Limited, of Japan, of the Japanese bonds
referred to:
Some time last year, we became interested in the purchase of
Japanese bonds. As you know, our funds in Japan have been blocked,
and an attractive feature of these bonds was the fact that the three
and one-half percent interest was remittable in dcllars. There was
a further attractive feature in assurance we received from Japan
that through the purchase of these bonds in Japan, there would be
an easement of the blocking of our funds in Japan; and further sums
in dollars could be remitted from Japan.
On ecember 26, we received a cable from our r. Perkins, indi-
cating to us that it would be advantageous at that time, to purchase
the bonds up to about eighty percent of the present and accumulating
cash, and on January third, we gave our consent by cable.
On February 14, we received a letter from Major Herron to
which was attached a copy of a letter dated February 13 from Mr.
Maxwell M. Hamilton, to Colonel Herron, in which he stated that on
December 24, the Enbassy at Tokyo advised the representatives of the
American film companies that the epartment of State would not look
with favor on any American concerns investing its funds in Japanese
bonds.
This news came to us as a complete surprise, and we immediately
cabled to Japan to cancel any further bond purchases, and shortly
thereafter we wrote to ascertain why we were not apprised of the
viewpoint expressed by the State Department. We are currently
awaiting an answer to this communication. Naturally, a good deal
of this difficulty could have been avoided by the State Department's
contacting this office directly.
Naturally, we are complying, and intend to comply with the
request of the State Department, but there are large sums of money
involved, and I think it is necessary for us to receive a further
clarification of this matter.
We would like to know, if it is possible, why this type of
investment is not approved, especially in view of the fact that it

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
enables us not only to receive in dollars the interest on the bonds,
but also an unnamed amount of dollars. If we did not purchase these
Japanese bonds, we would not get any dollars out of Japan, whereas
through the purchase of these bonds, we are enabled to receive fairly
favorable in two senses of the word, the first being to our own busi-
ness; and the second in that it depletes the gold reserve of the
Government that at the moment, appears unfriendly to our own. Would
it be possible for you to obtain for us ambetter understanding of
the issues involved, from the viewpoint of the American Government?
With kind regards,
Sincerely,
(sgd) John W. Hicks, Jr.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.93)
April 2, 1941
F
894.4061
My dear Mr. Milliken:
The resuipt is asknowledged of your communicasien
of Nareh 26, 1941, with whioh you enolose & copy of a
MOTION
letser of date Marah 21 which you received from Mr. John
W. Mieke, Jr., of Paramount Piotures, Incorporated, in
regard to the purohase by the Paramount Company of Japa-
0
nese Government bonds.
ICTURES
Ambassador Grew in Tokyo telegraphed the Department
on December 24, 1940, that members of the Embassy staff
had advised representatives of the Amerioan motien pieturss
companies in Japan that the Department would not look
5
L
with favor on any Ameriean coneern investing its funde in
Japanese national bonds and advised shem to have sheir
New York prinoipals get in touch with the Departmens in
Washington. The Department fully approved she positien
taken by the Ambassador and suggested tha's he reomphasise
shat
Mr. Carl E. Millakem,
Aating Foreign Msmeger,
Rosion Pieture Producers and
Distributors of Americs, Insorporased,
28 Weat Forsy-fourth Ssrees.
New York, New York.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.93)
that position shonld ho find appropriate oseasion so de
so. On January S1 Ambeesader Grew informed the Depart-
ment that the Paramount Company representative in Japan
had beem definitely instruoted to invest in Japamese
mational bonds and on Februnry 13 the Department wrote
to Gelonel Frederiek L. Merron setting forth iss poei-
tiom in regard to She matter and asking that he make
these views known to the Paremount Company and perhaps
430
to othes conoermed American motion pioture companies.
Celemel Merren replied on Pebruary l4 that he had
pessed on the information as requested. These lettere
are mentiomed in Mr. Hioke' letter to you of Mareh 31.
Om Mareh 7, 194l, Ambassador Grew telegraphed that he
had beem informed by the Paramount representative that
an erser had been plased on Maroh 8 for an undiselesed
amount of Japanese Government bonds.
In elaberation of the Department's position as in-
dieated above, it may be ssid thes during the pess fow
years the resouroes of the Japanese Empire have been
doveted to she omeout ion of polieies defimitely preju-
dieial to Ameriean imterests in the Far Eest and that
the Governmons of the United States neturally does not
leok with favor upon aetion by Amerioan firms of a
speoiel and somewhat wmusual chereeter whioh tende to
oontribute
心

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.90)
centribate to tho resouroes thus used. As alroady ine
dieated te Mr. Werron, the purohase of Japaneso national
bends by one Amerioan company tends to lead to greater
presouse on the remaiming eompanies to follow muit.
Substastial amounts of Amerioan funds belonging to a
mumber of companles and individuals have been bleeked
in Japam by means of emehange sontrel, and indieattens
that the blooking of Amerisen funds in Japan may result
in the Snvestment of those funds in Japanese Gevermment
bonds will naturally tend to plaoe a premium upon @on-
tinued and future refueals to permit American-owned
funde to leave Japan.
It is hoped that the feregoing obeervassone will
Serve to elarify to Mr. Hioks sho viewpeint of this
Gevernment.
Bineerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
7.71
Mamwell M. Hemilton
Ohiof
Division of Far Eastern Affaire
A true copy of
the sigm orig-
CR
inal
APR
2 1941PM
S
lnt
wn
1
PA/H
EA
FE MJIHNS/HES
FE

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.92)
May 29, 1941
CONFIDENTIAL - STAFF USE ONLY
so.
2182
To the Ameriesn Ambaesador,
Tokyo.
The Seeretery of State refers to his instruetion
(no. 2127) of Pebruary 28, 1941 and previous correspond-
enee in regard to the matter of investment in Japanese
894.406
nationel bonds by the Paramount representative in Tokye,
and encloses for the confidential information of the
American Ambassador a oopy of a letter of Maroh 26, 1941
SI MOTION
from Mr. Carl E. Milliken, a copy of She Department's
reply thereto of April 2, and a copy of a memorandus of
a convereation of May 21 between Mr. Perkins and Mr. Clement
of Paramount Pietures, Incerporated and certain offieers
PICTURES/
of the Department, on this subjeet.
Enclosures:
1. From Mr. Milliken,
Mareh 26.
757
B。
To Hr. Nilliken,
April 2.
S.
Memorandun of conversa-
tion, May 21, between
Mr. Perkins, Mr. Clement
and Mr. Adame, Mr. Coville.
/AG
28 1949
jmjce
MAY
e.g.C.
FE:EGC:LJH
FE
WAA
5-28-41.
Ws

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.98)
MAY2-
1941
ION OF FAR EASTERN
Apr11 29, 1941
WA
RCM
Tokyo's despatch no. 5462, March 24, 1941:
"Purchase of Japanese National Bonds by
American Motion Picture Concerns".
The Ambassador reports that the representa-
tives of American motion picture companies met
on several occasions with the Commercial
Attache and that particular care was taken to
impress upon the representatives the attitude
of the Department and of the Embassy in regard
to the investment of American funds in Japanese
national bonds.
On January 31 Mr. Jonas Albeck, repre-
sentative of Paramount Films Limited, indicated
that he was seriously considering investing
funds of his company in Japanese national
bonds (Albeck is a Danish subject and re-
portedly owns property in Japan). The trans-
action was held in abeyance pending the
arrival of Mr. Albeck's power of attorney.
The Commercial Attache emphasized the danger
of purchase of bonds by one concern in that
it would "open the way" for added Japanese
pressure on all other American companies
having frozen funds in Japan (such funds
total

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
approximately 45 million Yen). On March 7
Mr. Albeck called the Commercial Attache, as
he had promised to do, and stated that he had
ordered an unspecified amount of Japanese
Government bonds, as instructed by Mr. J. E.
Perkins, Far Eastern Manager for the Paramount
coTpany. (Press rparted Oaramount purchased 476s,000)
Mr. Perkins called on Mr. Williams on
March 18 and discussed this question with him.
Mr. Williams emphasized the embarrassing
position in which other American motion picture
companies were placed, the fact that Paramount
was directly assisting Japan to finance her
war and that publicity regarding the purchase
by Paramount of Japanese national bonds had
appeared on the day following the passing of
the Lease-Lend Bill. Mr. Perkins stated
confidentially that his company had obtcined
a guarantee from the Minister of Finance for
a permit to remit to the United States ten
per cent of the value of the bonds purchased,
an agreement that exchange permits would be
granted for the annual interest payments on
the bonds, and had insisted on a clause
binding the Minister of Finance to repurchase
the bonds at the purchase price on seven days'
notice. He expressed personal regret that
his company's representative had acted arainst
the Embassy's advice and added no further
purchases were intended.
Mr.

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-3-
Mr. M. Shathin, local manager of Warner
Brothers, informed the Commercial Attache' on
March 17 the Mitsui Trust Company had approached
him with the request that frozen funds (approxi-
mately eight million yen) of all American
motion picture companies in Japan be deposited
with that trust comoany for five years. The
Mitsui company agreed to allow withdrawal
at any time of funds for which the Ministry
of Finance would grant an exchange permit,
and offered to pay interest from 3.8% to
3.9% per annum should deposits exceed one
million yen. The Mitsui company offered to
provide a written guarantee covering the
transfer to the United States of interest
on the funds deposited. Mr. Williams suggested
a guarantee be obtained from the Ministry of
Finance regarding exchange permits for
remission of annual interest. The Embassy
considers the Mitsui offer as significant
and probably indicating shortage of "licuid"
cash. The Embassy perceives no objection
to the Mitsui offer.
894.4061 Motion Pictures/58
S
FE:Schmidt:LJH

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.94)
ON POLITICAL
MR. HORNDE
ADVISER
MAY 2-.1941
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
DEPARTMENT OF
TOF THE
a4
STATE
19A APR 171197
AMERICAN EMBASSY
DeA
Tokyo, Japan
No. 5462
March 24, 1941
SUBJECT:
PURCHASE OF JAPANESE NATIONAL BONDS BY
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE CONCERNS
am
894.4O61 MOTiQ
Divisica of
UFFICE UF ER
FIR EASTEBN AIRS
NTERNAIONAL IC AFFARS
Department of State
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
1941
51941
DCA
DEPAHTMENT OF STATE
MAY 15 1941
DIVISION OF
Rehding Desk
File-J.P.
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
54
52
56
Por Peributiom-Chuck
Yea
No
Grade
PICTURES/58
For
In U B.A.
GIVISION OF
Commerce
ICON
corfedince
MAY01941
MAY 1 9 1941
STA
The Honorable
MR. HORNBECK
ADVISER
MAY 8- 1941
The Secretary of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington
MAY 2 2 1941
Sir:-
FILED
PS/LB
I have the honor to refer to Department's
telegram #36 of January 15, 9 p.m., to th1s Embassy's
telegrams Nos. 148 January 31st, 6 p.m., and 371
March 7, 6 p.m., and to the Department's Instructions
No. 2127 dated February 28, 1941, all relating to
the

=== Page 187 === (confidence 1.00)
2
the purchase of Japanese bonds by American motion
picture companies.
The Commercial Attache has had several
meetings with representatives of American motion
picture companies here, and on each occasion has
taken particular care to impress upon them the
attitude of the Department and this Embassy in re-
gard to the investment of American funds in
Japanese national bonds.
On January 31, 1941, a group of these
motion picture gentlemen called on Mr. Williams for
a further discussion of the matter. At that time
only one firm, namely, Paramount Films Ltd., was
seriously considering such a step. The representative
of this firm, Mr. Jonas Albeck, is a Danish subject
and reportedly owns some property in Japan. He has
been with the Paramount Company only a few months
being formerly with the Columbia Pictures.
Mr. Albeck stated that his predecessor
had made a definite proposition to his New York head-
quarters as far back as November, 1940, and had
eventually obtained approval of the bond purchase
plan. In early January this year a proposal was
laid before the Japanese Government, which was
accepted around the middle of January, but the deal
was held in abeyance until Mr. Albeck's power of
attorney

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
3
attorney had been received from New York and arrange-
ments made for him to sign checks.
At this meeting Mr. Williams explained in
detail to Mr. Albeck and the other motion picture
men present the position taken by the Department
and this Embassy in regard to American companies in-
vesting in Japanese national bonds and stressed the
danger of such action on the part of one concern to
all American interests in Japan, namely, that it
would open the way for added pressure from the
Japanese on, not only other American picture com-
panies who have upwards of eight million yen deposited
in Japan, but also on all American firms having
funds frozen here totalling around Yen 45 million.
Mr. Albeck promised to keep the Commercial Attache
informed as to his actions in connection with the
purchase of bonds.
On the basis of the above conference we
despatched to the Department our telegram #148,
January 3lst, 6 p.m.
On March 7, 1941, Mr. Albeck called alone
to see Mr. Williams in accordance with his promise
of January 3lst. He stated that he had received
his power of attorney and also definite instruc-
tions from Mr. J. E. Perkins, Far Eastern Manager
for Paramount, to proceed with the purchase of the
bonds and he had, therefore, placed his order on
March

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
4
March 6, 1941, for an unspecified amount of these
bonds. This information was cabled to the Depart-
ment on March 7, 6 p.m., our #371.
On March 18th Mr. J. E. Perkins, Far
Eastern Manager for Paramount, was in Tokyo en
route to the United States on home leave. He called
on me in connection with the purchase of Japanese
bonds and was referred to Mr. Williams who went over
the whole matter with him and emphasized the em-
barrassing position in which other American motion
picture companies had been placed by his company's
action. It was also pointed out that his company
was directly assisting Japan to finance her war
program with American funds. He was shown a news-
1/
paper clipping, attached hereto, from the Japan
Times and Advertiser of March 13, 1941, morning
edition, reproducing on the front page a 32" x 43"
photograph of Mr. Albeck and his Japanese assistant
with the explanation that these men were responsible
for the Paramount Film Company's purchase of
Yen 765,O00 worth of Japanese Government securities.
It was also pointed out to Mr. Perkins that this
publicity appeared in Japanese papers on the day
following the passing by the United States Congress
of the Lease Lend Bill.
Mr. Perkins informed Mr. Williams con-
fidentially that the terms of the agreement made
with

=== Page 190 === (confidence 1.00)
5
with the Japanese by his company included a
guarantee from the Minister of Finance that an ex-
change permit be granted for an amount equal to
10% of the value of bonds purchased and that ex-
change permits would be granted covering the
annual interest payments on the bonds. He stated
that there was also a clause in the agreement bind-
ing the Minister of Finance to re-purchase these
bonds at the price paid any time on seven days'
notice. Mr. Perkins expressed his personal regret
that his company's representative had acted against
the advice of this Embassy and stated that no
further purchases of bonds were intended.
In this connection Mr. M. Shathin, local
manager of Warner Brothers, called on the Conmercial
Attache on March 17th and informed him that he had
been approached by the Mitsui Trust Company with
the request that all the American motion picture
companies deposit their frozen funds with the
Mitsui Trust Company for a period of five years.
The amount of such funds is around eight million
yen, the bulk of which is now in the Tokyo branch
of the National City Bank of New York. The Trust
Company stipulated that in case the Ministry of
Finance allows the remittance of any part or the
whole of these funds to the United States, they
may be withdrawn at any time for that purpose. The
offer

=== Page 191 === (confidence 1.00)
6
offer was also made that if the deposits exceed
one million yen, interest would be paid at the
rate of from 3.8% to 3.9% per annum, and that ex-
change permits would be granted to transfer this
interest to the United States semi-annually. The
Trust Company indicated its willingness to provide
a letter of guarantee covering the transfer of
this interest. Mr. Williams suggested that such
a letter be obtained from the Ministry of Finance
rather than from the Trust Company.
This proposition originating from the
Mitsui Trust Company is considered significant in-
asmuch as it very probably reflects the shortage of
liquid cash.
From an investment standpoint this offer
appears much more attractive than the purchase of
national bonds and one to which this Embassy could
offer no objection inasmuch as the National City
Bank has informed American motion picture concerns
that it is transferring their deposits to the Bank
of Japan and has requested the companies to sign a
release limiting the responsibility of the bank
to the assets of this branch.
Mr. Shathin is to keep Mr. Williams advised
as to any decision reached in connection with this
proposition from the Mitsui Trust Company.
Respectfully yours;
Joseph C.Grew.
Distribution: original and 2 copies
to Department

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.96)
MOTION PICTURE PRODUCERS & DISTRIBUTORS OF AMERICA, INC.
11
28 WEST 44TH STREET
PEOOVED
DEPARIMLIT OF STATE
New YOrk CITY
WILL H. HAYS
FOREIGN DEPARTMENT
PRESIDENT
1941 APR 7 AM 10 43
COL. FREDERICK L. HERRON
CARL E. MILLIKEN
MANAGER
SECRETARY
(ON LEAVE FOR MILITARY DUTY)
CARL E. MILLIKEN. ACTING MANAGER
HAROLD L. SMITH. ASSISTANT
COF
COMMUHIUATIONS
F. W. ALLPORT. EUROPEAN MANAGER
AND HECORDS
April 3, 1941
8
6
Mr. Maxwell M. Hamilton, Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
9
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
Thank you for your letter of April 2nd regarding
MOTIOB PT
the purchase of Japense bonds by Paramount Pictures
Incorporated.
We are passing your letter on to Mr.
Hicks so that he will be brought up to date on the
matter.
Caistarlim
Very sincerely,
Acting Foreign Mamager
59
APR 7 1941
FILHD
PS/HH

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.93)
12306
REQUIRED
PECEIVEO
P(Bubmitted incaccordance with Department's
instructions of October 2, 1940.)
Com(hee)
Er
MAY 2 9 1941
Department of Stato
COMMERCIAL AFFAIRS
S 
INTERNT
Fil
AAY 18 1941
00
DLP
894.4061
4.401M1
89
No. 167
MOTION PICTURE DEVELOPMENTS IN JAPAN PROPER
FIRST QUARTER - 1941
Donald W. fam
From American Vice Consul
Donald W. Lamm
American Embassy, Tokyo
Date of Completion: April 9, 941
ORES700
FILED
Date of Mailing:
1941
Approved:
Frank S. Williams,
Commercial Attache.
File No. 840.6
DWL/mh
Distribution:
Original and 1 copy to Department;
1 hectograph copy.

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
一2-
RAW FILM ALLOTMENTS
Early in January the authorities announced that
the supply of raw film furnished to consumers other than those
engaged in the production of cultural pictures would be re-
duced by approximately 36% as compared with 1940. Allowances
for the first three months were supposed to be based on the
amount of film previcusly used by the individual companies,
but since no announcement was made as to the total footage
consumed by Japanese firms during the previous year, there
is no method of ascertaining whether the American distri-
buting companies are being discriminated against or not.
The total amount of film released for the three months period
was scheduled to be 12,150,000 metric feet. The American
distributing companies each received about 10,000 metric
feet per month.
Complete details of the plans for the April-June
period are not yet available. Some changes in the quotas
for individual companies may be made in view of the new policy
whereby producers of superior pictures will be given pre-
ference over the others. This plan may be used as a method
of discrimination against the American concerns, but there
1s no evidence that this is intended. One press report
stresses the fact that so far as imported pictures are
concerned, the American companies have been considered as
most important, but that hereafter the Japanese importers
should no longer be treated as secondary in this field.
It

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
It is reported that the Japan Sensitizing Materials
Manufacturing Association will handle the allocation of raw
film under the direction of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry. Although it is generally assumed that the total
April-June allowances will be approximately the same as the
preceding quarter, a report in the March issue of "Diamond"
states that the total output of raw film in Japan is now
7,500,000 metric feet per month, of which 5,000,000 feet 1s
to be used for the production of military, cultural and educa-
tional pictures. If this statement is accurate, the monthly
allotments to all other users of rew film will be reduced
from 4,050,000 feet to 2,500,000 feet. The Dome1 News
Agenoy, in reporting a recent äiscussion among the officials
concerned with this question, stated on April 2nd that
"there will be no big difference" in the second quarter
quotas. The officials referred to presumably are the
members of the "Movie Film Distribution Control Council" which
1s composed of representatives from the Army, Navy, and
Commerce and Industry Ministries and the Board of Information.
CULTURAL AND PROPAGANDA FILMS
The authorities have decided that the distribution
of cultural films in Japan Proper will be carried out en-
tirely by the Japan News Eigashi (Japan News Cinema Co.)
according to recent reports in the local press. This
decision has apparently been made in order to ensure smooth
distribution and to take such films out of the realm of
business competition. The Japan News Eigashi has sent Mr. S.
Taguohi

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
Taguchi, the chief of its foreign section, to the United
States where he is expected to remain for about two years.
Mr. Taguchi's purpose in going to the United States is sup-
posed to be an effort to secure important and interesting
American newsreels for exhibition in Japan (Note 1).
It was announced early in March that the Japan
Culture Central Federation will hold an art festival in
commemoration of the 2,60lst anniversary of the founding of
the Japanese Empire in December 194l. A film competition
will be held on this occasion, with a first prize of Yen
3,000 and three other prizes of Yen 1,000 each. Any pro-
ducer may submit up to five culture films, which must be
35 millimeter sound production, approved by the Education
Ministry and completed or released between May and the end
of November of this year.
The Education Ministry has reportedly decided on
a five year plan for installing motion picture projectors
in all of the National Schools. Films will be used for
classes in history, geography and science. At the present
time, there are only about 5,000 projectors in possession
of the primary schools, which number about 20,000. Among
the total number, 4,500 are small size silent machines, 230
standard silent machines, 30 sound projectors and 240
unspecified. It is estimated that the National Schools,
which were established on April 1, 194l, will require about
40,000 projectors.
A number of cultural and propaganda pictures have
recently been sent to foreign countries. Although these
are

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
are not usually announced in the press, it is reported that
three Japanese war films will be sent to Germany in July.
German versions have been made in Tokyo by Dr. Erwin T.
Baelz. The pictures involved are "Skies in Flames",
"Captain Nishizumi, Commander of a Tank Unit" and "Five
Scout Soldiers". Another film, "Crystals of Snow", which
was shown at the International Snow Conference held in
Washington, will be sent to German y by reguest.
The Society of International Cultural Relations 1s
reportedly planning to send about a dozen Japanese cultural
films to Thailand, as a result of a request from that
country. The films involved are said to be "Warm Currents",
"Bugaku", "Japanese Woodblock Prints", "Bamboo Handicraft",
"Gems of the Sea", "Paradise of Skiers", "The Little Messenger"
and "Loochoo Dances". Other films are being shown in French
Indo-China by the French Indo-China Cinema Association.
Motion picture theatres showing exclusively Japanese films
are expected to be opened up shortly at Hanoi and Haiphong.
Further evidence of the penetration of Japanese
cultural films was given in a recent report in the Miyako
Shimbun. This report stated that Mr. Torrentino, an
important Italian motion picture distributor who is
supposed to have control over 5oo chain theatres in Brazil,
has approached the Japanese Foreign Office with regard to the
shipment of Japanese films to Brazil. Mr. Torrentino is
quoted as stating that he did not favor most American films
because "they are too dogmatic and lack universal appeal",
and that the supply from Europe is extremely limited. The
Sooiety

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
Society of International Cultural Relations is scheduled to send
a number of newsreels and culture films to Brazil, and, if
these are well received, other types of pictures will also
be sent regularly.
THE "NEW STRUCTURE" FILM POLICY
Plans for a drastic reorganization of the film
industry in order to induce better cooperation with the
"new structure" and the Asia "co-prosperity sphere" are
gradually beginning to take shape. The preliminary stages
have taken the form of criticism of the existing motion
picture distributing firms, on the grounds that they are
primarily interested in making a profit and not in advanc-
ing the culture and solidarity of the nation. Under the
present system, pictures pronounced "excellent" by the
Education Ministry are still shown only at the theatres
controlled by the producers, but it is contended that such
pictures should be distributed to all chains, regardless of
their connections.
Another step towards regimentation of the industry
is the plan to reorganize the Japan Motion Picture Association
so that it can serve as a liaison organization between the
Government and the producers and distributors. It has
recently been decided that the Association shall be enlarged
to inolude the Nihon Eiga Jigyo Renmeika1 (Japan Motion
Pioture Enterprise Association), the Nihon Eigajin Renme1
(Japan Motion Picture Personnel Association) and the Nihon
Eisha Gijutsuka Kyokai (Japan Motion Picture Photographera'
Association). These bodies will all be merged into one
general

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
一7-
general group, which will thus include not only theatre
owners, producers and office staffs, but also actors, mechanics,
photographers, etc.
Mergers of the small film studios are planned in
the near future under official instructions, according to
a news report in the Kokumin Shimbun. Although the larger
companies will maintain their separate entity, all of the
small firms must unite in order to facilitate the operation
of the raw film distribution system.
The application of the "new order" policies 1s
also manifest in proposals for the establishment of a fixed
maximum price for motion pictures. Price fixing in this
field has not been attempted heretofore, in view of the
wide variation in the cost of individual productions. Re-
cently, however, theatre owners, particularly those in
charge of second and third rate establishments, have been
complaining that rates are much too high. The authorities
are now studying information on hand regarding production
costs in an effort to arrive at some basis for price fixing.
It is reported that this policy will also be applied to
imported motion pictures, but since the Government has
no way of ascertaining the cost of production in foreign
countries, such a program will prove exceedingly difficult.
Some action restricting unusually high rates for imported
films will probably be put into effect, however, in the
course of time.
MOTION

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
一8-
MOTION PICTURE THEATRES AND ATTENDANCE
According to a recent press report presumably
based on official data, there were a total of 2,086 motion
picture houses in Japan Proper on January 1, 194l. This
figure, however, includes 198 theatres which do not show
films regularly. An analysis of the location of these mo-
tion picture houses shows that Tokyo leads with a total of
317, followed by Osaka with 191 and Fukuoka with 117.
Although the attendance at second and third rate
theatres has fallen off, the total number of tickets sold
in Tokyo during 1940 was reported to be 101,768,711, as com-
pared with 91,648,012 for the preceding year. This increase
has occurred in spite of the opposition of the authorities
to amusements of any sort, and may be said to reflect the
high pay received by workers in the munitions and other
wartime industries, which can no longer be spent on tangible
goods, owing to the present shortages of food, clothing, etc.
A near riot occurred at one large motion picture theatre
in Tokyo, owing to the crowds which could not obtain ad-
mission. Police intervention was necessary to restore
order. This affair provoked broadsides from the press and
official circles regarding the "insincere" attitude of the
people during the time of crisis, and caused stricter en-
foroement of the regulations regarding the selling of
tickets after the full accomodation capacity has been
reached.
CENSORSHIP

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
CENSORSHIP DATA FOR 1940
Motion pictures inspected by the Censorship Bureau
of the Home Ministry during 1940 totalled 112,25l reels
aggregating 25,901,139 meters, according to a vernacular
press report. Of this total, 13,903 reels consisted of
1mported films, while the remaining 98,348 reels represented
domestic production. Figures for 1939 were not available
but in 1938, 113,084 reels totalling 25,920,648 meters were
inspeoted. Both foreign and domestic films showed slight
declines as compared with the 1938 data.
ACTORS' SCHOOL ESTABLISHED
Press reports state that a school for the
training of motion picture actors will be opened in April.
This project is the result of dissatisfaction in some
quarters with the inferior acting ability of many of the
performers, which is attributed primarily to lack of train-
ing. The school will receive as pupils, boys who have
graduated from college or some corresponding institution
and girls who have completed Higher School education.
NEW INVENTIONS
A method of converting old silent movie projectors
into sound equipment has reportedly been invented by a
Tokyo mechanic, Mr. S. Yumoto. The main problem is alleged
to have centered about the replacement of the movable
"gate", for permitting the entry of light, with an immovable
one. It is expeoted that this new method will be applied
to many of the 8,Ooo obeolete projectors which are now
1d1e.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
Mr. S. Kuwamura, a technician in the motion
picture department of the Miyako Company 1s said to have
perfeoted an apparatus designed to stop the motion of the
projector instantly in case the film breaks or some accident
occurs in the machine. This invention, which is supposed
to materially reduce the risk of fire in the projection
room, has been recommended by the Home, Education and War
Ministries.
2
y
F11e No. 840.6
DWL/mh
Distribution:
Original and 1 copy to Department;
1 copy of hectograph.

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
11
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
Note 1. - In spite of the official statement that Mr. Taguchi
is going to the United States in connection with
American newsreels, it is possible that he has
an additional mission of superintending the dis-
tribution of Japanese propaganda films.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.93)
CHARGE SLIP
N 94.406/2P
ENCLOSURE
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REMARKS
Es hrlliams 1-6-44 mb
cale
60
U.S. GOVERNNENT PRINTING OFFICE 1-1683

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.84)
NT OF STATE
POLITICAL RELATIONS
EMMA 5/8
I. mitui lemepit by having
available - ao banber- forit
onwn wees the fands involved
iwhich are now fr the luvit pait
on depoit wwith a lranch of the
kat. City Banh
2. However, as Nat. City Bh. wishe
to withdraw fron Ipien t so no longen
waitht ritain these pinds +as
kiteni is offeing a lengpit e mestio
pisture comharies (hermirsionts enishdraw
from 9aban untarest one the daporeit),I

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.83)
MENT OF STATE
FON POLITICAL RELATIONS
ot belive that ere cam
jiol
EK

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.82)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Peal t Millitin
28W448f
New Yook
aclun foem
O th Motioin Piclim
Produert thshbutin-o7
u

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
May 6, 1941.
TA/H
Mr. Hornbeck:
If the deposit arrangement with the
Mitsui Trust Company contains a stipulation
that in case the Ministry of Finance allows
the remittance of any part or the whole of the
deposited funds to the United States, they may
be withdrawn from time to time for that purpose,
it would not seem to be open to objection as
conflicting with a policy of discouraging
American loans to Japan. That clause would
mitigate the five-year term of the deposit, and
would leave the companies or this Government
free to endeavor to obtain the withdrawal of
the funds from Japan.
As long as the funds are blocked in Japan
in liquid form they do constitute an involuntary
extension of American credit to the Japanese
economy. That is the effect of blocking foreign
funds which would otherwise be withdrawn from
the country. Even if the funds could be with-
drawn from a bank and invested at will in direct
property owmership in Japan, the Japanese pro-
hibition of withdrawal from the country would
still have the effect of causing an involuntary
extension of American credit to the Japanese.
The Mitsui proposal for keeping the funds liquid
in case it becomes possible to withdraw them
from the country seems about as favorable a
solution as could be made consistently with
earning any current return on the funds.
EA:FL:LWW
894.4061 Motion P1ctures/58

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.82)
RTMENT OF STATE
VISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
-3
EA:
eile t
92
thk
ent 94

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
DEFACE OF TIHE ADUISER ON
Memorandum of ConversatAHTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN APFAIRS
DATE:
May 6, 1941
SUBJECT:
Deposit with Mitsui Trust Company of funds frozen in
Japan belonging to American motion picture concerns.
PArticiPAnTs: Mr. Carl E. Milliken, Acting Foreign Manager of the
894.4O61 MOTION PICTURES6
Motion Picture Producers and Distributors of America,
28 West 44th Street, New York.
Mr. Adams
Mr. Schmidt
Division of
COPIES TO:
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
MR.HOMMBECK
Commerce
MAY 8- 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1—1498
Mr. Milliken stated that he had called at the
Department to obtain informally this Government's views
with regard to the offer which had been made by the
MERCIAL AFFAIRS
artment of State
DIVISION OF
Mitsui Trust Company to the American motion picture
15 1941
companies in Japan that their blocked funds be de-
posited with the Mitsui company. The proposition as
outlined by Mr. Milliken was essentially the same as
that given in Tokyo's despatch no. 5462, March 24,
1941.
MAY2
Mr. Adams replied that it was his own opinion
that there would be no objection to the motion pictur?
companies depositing their funds with the Mitsui bank
under
PS/LB

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
under an arrangement such as Mr. Milliken had outlined.
He added that he would take up the matter with other
officers of the Department and should other views
in which Mr. Milliken would be interested be expressed,
the Department would communicate with him.
Mr. Milliken expressed appreciation of Mr. Adams'
remarks.
Se W
FE:Schmiat:LJH

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.92)
o. 2178
To the Amerioan Ambassador,
894.406I MOTION PICTURES/61
Tokyo.
The Seoretary of State encloses for the information
of the Amerioan Ambassador a copy of a memorandum of a
conversation of May 6, 194l between Mr. Carl E. Milliken
and certain officers of the Department in regard to the
deposit with Mitsui Trust Company of funds frozen in
894.4061
Japan belonging to Amerioan motion pioture oonoerns.
mo
Enolosure:
Memorandum of conversation,
May 6, between Mr. Milliken
and Mr. Adams, Mr. Sohmidt.
PS/AG
e.g.c.
FE:EGC:LJH
FE
WAT
5-13-41.
MAY 15 101
A true capy 
aho sued orig
WAr

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 10, 1941.
Reference Tokyo's despatoh no. 5660,
June 13, 1941, entitled "Informal Complaint by
the Japanese Foreign Office Against an
American Motion Picture Production", in which
there is enolosed an original letter from
Mr. Grew to Mr. Hays, President of the Motion
Pioture Producers-Distributors of America
which Mr. Grew desires to have forwarded to
Mr. Hays provided the Department approves.
The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer organization in
Washington has stated upon inquiry that the
motion picture in question now known as "They
Mot in Bombay" has been released and is now
being shown throughout the country. The
Washington premiere is scheduled for July 17.
In viow of this circumstance and taking
into consideration all the aspects of the case,
it is suggested that Mr. Grew's letter to
Mr. Hays be withheld; that the substance of
Mr. Grew's letter be brought to the attention
informally by IN upon the occasion of General
Milliken's nert visit to the Department; and
that reply be made to Mr. Grew's despatoh along
lines of the attached draft instruction.
894.4061 Motion Pictures/62
FE:SORuLOTTOJL

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
August 6, 1941.
lae Wolf:
The letter drafted by Ambassador Grew
concerning an informal complaint made by the
Japanese against the motion picture entitled
The Uniform, a production of the Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Company, was not delivered to
Mr. Hays. It seems to be the consensus of
opinion in the Department that we should
convey the information contained in Mr. Grew's
letter to Governor Milliken when he calls at
the Department.
Incidentally, the picture referred to
1s the same as that entitled They Met in
Bombay, which is now being shown in the
United States.
IN:JiKeating:HGK

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 9, 1941.
Tokyo's despatch no. 5660, June 13, 1941,
"Informal Complaint by the Japanese Foreign
Office Against an American Motion Picture
Production".
The Ambassador encloses with this despatoh
a letter which he has addressed to Mr. Will H.
Hays, President, Motion Picture Producers-
Distributors of America, and which he asks the
Department to forward if the Department ap-
proves of the letter.
There is enclosed with Mr. Grew's letter
a copy of a memorandum of conversation
prepared by an officer of the Embassy to whom
the Foreign Uffice complaint was made. You
will probably wish to read the Ambassador's
letter and its enclosure before deciding
whether the letter should be forwarded.
894.4061 Motion Pictures/62
FE:ScHmidt:OJL

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
Tokyo, June 13, 1941.
No. 5660.
SUBJECT:
OFFICE AGAINST AN AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE
PRODUCTION.
Copy in7E
Por Dstriburi utrhack
Yee
No
Arade
Px
In U B. A.
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER ON
INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
7
Dirision of
894.4O6I MOTION PICTURES/62
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
OEPATE GF SAE
AUG151941
17
1941
12
DÉPARTMENT OF STATE
RECVEO
Ray7
5
of
OIVISION F
894.4061m.0.
A161194
The Honorable
MK. HUROBECK
The Secretary of State,
JUL 12 1941
Washington.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sir:
I have the honor to enolose, for transmission
1/
at the disoretion of the Department, a letter which
I have addressed to Mr. Will H. Hays, President,
AUG,16 1941
Motion Pioture Produoers-Distributors of America,
FILED
regarding an informal complaint made to the Embassy
PS
by
11

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
by the Japanese Foreign Office against a motion picture
entitled "The Uniform" which, according to information
reaching the Foreign Ofrice, is being produced by the
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Company.
If the Department approves of the approach in
this matter which I have made to Mr. Hays, it is re-
spectfully suggested that it may wish to support,
either formally or informally, the letter whioh I
have addressed to him.
Respeotfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
4
Enclosure:
1/ Letter as stated.
840.6
CAC:nn
Original and 3 copies to the Department.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 5660
dated June 13, 1941, from the Embassy
at Tokyo.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Fakye, Jume 15, 1941
Dear Mr. Bays:
I am emelesing for your infomation a copy of a
memerandum prepared by a member of my starf following
a eomversation on June 5, l94l, vith an ofricial ef
the Japanese Ministry of Foreigm Affairs.
You will note that in this convermation there
was eommanicated to this Embassy a report received
by the Japanese authorities concerning a motion pio-
ture entitled "The Uniform" being produced by Metro-
Goldwym-Mayer Company. This pioture is distasteful
to the Japamese authorities besause, if the report is
aesurate, in one seene it portrays Japanese soldiers
in an extremely eompromising situation. While I am
not aware that the Japanese autherities have undertaken
to disprove or even to deny all the numerous reports
sireulated abroad of exeesses committed by Japanese
seldiers in the ceurse of the campaign in Chine, never-
theless, in Japan a soldier is respeoted as the repre-
Mr. Will H. Hays, President,
Metien Pieture Producers-Distributers of Ameriea,
se Wost 44th Street,
New York, New York.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
easative er the Experor and refleetiens upen hís honce
are disesunted and strongly resented.
herefore, without raising the questisn of what-
ever fastual basis there may be for the portrayal of
Japanese soldiers in such an unfavorable ligkt, the
present somplaint has been predicated upon the unfor-
tunate effest upon relations between the United States
and Japen whieh may result from further exaserbation
of publio opinion due to unfavorable motion pieture
publieity.
So far as I am aware, the unsuccessful representa-
tions addressed by the Japanese Embassy to our Department
of State, to which the Japanese officiel made reference,
coneerned only matters appearing in American publications
and not in American motion picture productions. The
Japanese authorities may well be justiried in assuming,
however, that the American Govermment would be obliged
to rejeot on the same grounds (freedom of the American
press) representations whioh the Japanese authorities
might make in regard to the present matter.
Yeu will appresiate that in my position I eammot
be indifferent to events affeoting the state of publie
opinion in the United States and Japan and that I should
lime to be able to elimimate, whemever pessible, un-
neesssary eauses of fristion in the relations of the

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.95)
 to etdrese yeu thes infemally and withoust comsels
Ing the state Deyartment in regard to a matter which
cammst fail te be most distressing to Japanese.
It appears that the Japanese authorities are con-
vimses that any formal pretest in regerd to a motion
pisture predustion would not only be unprodustive or
results but might even serve to heighten enti-Japamese
feeling in the Umited States, and that therefore they
have chosen this more or less persomel manner of appeal
as offering the enly hope of finding a mens of amelier-
ating a painful situation. I feel that I cannot do loms
than thes informally to present the facts for your son-
sideration. or sourse I would not presume to advise
you comeerming what action, if any, is feasible under
the cireumstanoes, and in submitting the foregoing I
 motivated ealy by a desire to draw attention to con-
siderasiems of an international oharaster whieh may not
have been fully appresiated or accurately gauged when
predwetion of "The Uniform" was undertaken. I have not
myeelf seem the film under reference.
Sineerely yours,
JOSEPH C. GREW

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.93)
Jume 5, 1941.
Mr. B. Tuki, Ghief of the First
Sestien ef the Amerisan Durean
of the Japameme Ministry of Fereign
Affairs,
and
Mr. Geeper, Third Seeretary of
Imbasay.
Subject: Infermal Comelaint arainst Anti-Japenese
This morning Mr. Yuki, Ohief of the First Section
of she Ameriean Bureau, telephoned asking me to call
at my sonvemiemee in the next day or two but he did not
indieate what subjeot he wished to diseuss.
I ealled at three o'olook this afternoon and was
informed by Mr. Taki that his purpose in wishing to
see me was to communieate to the Embassy the substanse
of a report whish had been received at the Foreign
Orfise conoerning an objectionable pietare whish is
being filmed by Metro-Goldwyn-Hryer. He stated that
the title of the picture is "The Uniform" and that
the seeme is Laid in interior China and Burma. The
part of the film which the Japanese authorities find
ebjestiomable is a seene in whish Japanese seldiers
are represented as being en the point of "vielating"
Chimese girls. At the srucial mement, Clark Gable

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
appears heroically on the soene, frustrating the
designs of the Japanese soldiers (Mr. Yuki remarked
that while not wishing to interfere in any way with
the glorifioation of Clark Gable, it is of course dis-
tasteful to see him glorified at the expense of Japanese
soldiers).
Mr. Yuki stated he believed Ambassador Grew would
be able to understand the viewpoint of the Japanese
authorities who see in a picture of this sort a means
of stirring up ill-feeling between the peoples of Japan
and the United States. He stated that although this
picture would of course never be admitted into Japan,
it is quite possible that publicity given to it in such
magazines as LIFE and TIME might bring it to the attention
of the Japanese public. Mr. Yuki seemed to be particularly
conoerned at the possibility of the existence of such a film
becoming generally known in Japan. He took exception to one
other matter in connection with the film, namoly, that
second generation Japanese were used as extras (presumably
as the offending Japanese soldiers although he did not specific-
ally say so.) He remarked, however, that he didn't really
suppose that anything could be done about the use of
nisei for anti-Japanese propaganda.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
I asked Mr. Yuki whether the matter had been reported
to the Japanese Eabassy at Washington, ramarking that that
Imbassy would appear to be in the best position to present
the Japanese complaint expeditiously. Mr. Yuki replied
that a sopy of the report had been sent to the Embassy
but that the Japanese Embassy had been told many times by
the Department of State, in conneetion with representations
on similar subjeets, that since the United States is a "free
country" no aetion on such complaints is possible. He added
that as a result of these rebuffs the Japanese "minister" in
Washington has beeome "timid" about suoh matters. Mr. Yuki
intimated that the Foreign Ofrice hoped by presenting the
sase informally to this Embassy to receive more sympathetio
treatment than it had formerly reeeived when similar matters
had been taken up direetly with the Department of State.
I reeeived the impression that Mr. Yuki hopes to enlist the
support of this Embassy in the belief that its advocaoy of
the Japanese position would be more effective than any aotion
the Japanese Embassy at Washington eould take.
While not indicating what speoifie aotion he wdahed
the Embassy to take, I gathered that the deletion from
the film of the objeetionable seene deseribed above would
satisfy the Foreign Offiee sinee Mr. Tuki did not find
fauls with any of the rest of the picture. Failing the

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
deletion of that part of the film, I think he hopes that
a means ean be found to prevent publieity being given to
the film in American mmgazines widely read in Japan.
Kr. Tuki stated that an unfavorable report had also
been reseived on a Universal film entitled "Half Way to
Shanghai". He was umable to give me any details on this
latter film, however, merely commenting that the general
"tona" seems to be anti-Japanese.
Charles A. Cooper.

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 13, 1941
Dear Mr. Hays:
I am enolosing for your information a copy of a
memorandum prepared by a member of my staff following
a conversation on June 5, l94l, with an official of
the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
MOTION
You will note that in this conversation there
was communicated to this Embassy e report received
by the Japanese authorities concerning a motion pic-
PICTURES/62
ture entitled "The Uniform" being produced by Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Company. This picture is distasteful
to the Japanese authorities because, if the report is
acourate, in one scene it portrays Japanese soldiers
in an extremely compromising situation. While I am
not aware that the Japanese authorities have undertaken
to disprove or even to deny all the numerous reports
circulated abroad of excesses committed by Japanese
soldiers in the course of the campaign in China, never-
theless, in Japan a soldier is respected as the repre-
Mr. Will H. Hays, President,
Motion Picture Producers-Distributors of America,
28 West 44th Street,
PSHR
New York, New York.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
sentative of the Emperor and reflections upon his honor
are disoounted and strongly resented.
Therefore, without raising the question of what-
ever faotual basis there may be for the portrayal of
Japanese soldiers in such an unfavorable light, the
present complaint has been predicated upon the unfor-
tunate effect upon relations between the United States
and Japan which may result from further exacerbation
of public opinion due to unfavorable motion picture
publicity.
So far as I am aware, the unsuccessful representa-
tions addressed by the Japanese Embassy to our Department
of State, to which the Japanese official made reference,
concerned only matters appearing in American publications
and not in American motion picture productions. The
Japanese authorities may well be justified in assuming,
however, that the American Government would be obliged
to rejeot on the same grounds (freedom of the American
press) representations which the Japanese authorities
might make in regard to the present matter.
You will appreciate that in my position I cannot
be indifferent to events affeoting the state of publio
opinion in the United States and Japan and that I should
like to be able to eliminate, whenever possible, un-
necessary causes of friction in the relations of the

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
two countries. It is this concern which has prompted
me to address you thus informally and without consult-
ing the State Department in regard to a matter which
cannot fail to be most distressing to Japanese.
It appears that the Japanese authorities are con-
vinoed that any formal protest in regard to a motion
picture production would not only be unproductive of
results but might even serve to heighten anti-Japanese
feeling in the United States, and that therefore they
have chosen this more or less personal manner of appeal
as offering the only hope of finding a means of amelior-
ating a painful situation. I feel that I cannot do less
than thus informally to present the facts for your con-
sideration. Of course I would not presume to advise
you concerning what action, if any, is feasible under
the ciroumstances, and in submitting the foregoing I
am motivated only by a desire to draw attention to con-
siderations of an international character whioh may not
have been fully appreciated or accurately gauged when
production of "The Uniform" was undertaken. I have not
myself seen the film under reference.
Sincerely yours,
Joseph C. Grew
American Ambassador

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
Jonversation.
June 5, 1941.
Mr. S. Yuki, Chief of the First
Section of the Amerioan Bureau
of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs,
and
Mr. Cooper, Third Secretary of
Embassy.
Subject:
: Informal Complaint against Anti-Japanese
Film.
This morning Mr. Yuki, Chief of the First Section
of the American Bureau, telephoned asking me to call
at my convenience in the next day or two but he did not
indicate what subject he wished to discuss.
I called at three o'clock this afternoon and was
informed by Mr. Yuki that his purpose in wishing to
see me was to communicate to the Embassy the substance
of a report which had been received at the Foreign
Office concerning an objectionable picture which is
being filmed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. He stated that
the title of the pioture is "The Uniform" and that
the scene is laid in interior China and Burma. The
part of the film which the Japanese authorities find
objeotionable is a scene in which Japanese soldiers
are represented as being on the point of "violating"
Chinese girls. At the crucial moment, Clark Gable

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
appears heroically on the scene, frustrating the
designs of the Japanese soldiers (Mr. Yuki remarked
that while not wishing to interfere in any way with
the glorification of Clark Gable, it is of course dis-
tasteful to see him glorified at the expense of Japanese
soldiers).
Mr. Yuki stated he believed Ambassador Grew would
be able to understand the viewpoint of the Japanese
authorities who see in a picture of this sort a means
of stirring up ill-feeling between thepeoples of Japan
and the United States. He stated that although this
picture would of course never be admitted into Japan,
it is quite possible that publicity given to it in such
magazines as LIFE and TIME might bring it to the attention
of the Japanese public. Mr. Yuki seemed to be particularly
concerned at the possibility of the existence of such a film
becoming generally known in Japan. He took exception to one
other matter in conneotion with the film, namely, that
second generation Japanese were used as extras (presumably
as the offending Japanese soldiers although he did not
specifically say so). He remarked, however, that he didn't
really suppose that anything could be done about the use
of nisei for anti-Japanese propaganda.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
I asked Mr. Yuki whether the matter had been reported
to the Japanese Embassy at Washington, remarking that that
Embassy would appear to be in the best position to present
the Japanese complaint expeditiously. Mr. Yuki replied
that a copy of the report had been sent to the Embassy
but that the Japanese Embassy had been tolå many times by
the Department of State, in connection with representations
on similar subjects, that since the United States is a "free
country" no action on such complaints is possible. He added
that as a result of these rebuffs the Japanese "minister" in
Washington has become "timid" about such matters. Mr. Yuki
intimated that the Foreign Office hoped by presenting the
case informally to this Embassy to receive more sympathetic
treatment than it had formerly received when similar matters
had been taken up directly with the Department of State.
I received the impression that Mr. Yuki hopes to enlist the
support of this Embassy in the belief that its advocacy of
the Japanese position would be more effective than any action
the Japanese Embassy at Washington could take.
While not indicating what specific action he wished
the Embassy to take, I gathered that the deletion from
the film of the objeotionable scene described above would
satisfy the Foreign Office since Mr. Yuki did not find
fault with any of the rest of the picture. Failing the

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
deletion of that part of the film, I think he hopes that
a means can be found to prevent publicity being given to
the film in American magazines widely read in Japan.
Mr. Yuki stated that an unfavorable report had also
been received on a Universal film entitled "Half Way to
Shanghai". He was unable to give me any details on this
latter film, however, merely commenting that the general
"tone" seems to be anti-Japanese.
Charlevli aoter
Charles A. Cøoper.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.92)
T
0.2205
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
Sir:
The receipt is acknowledged of your despatoh no. 5660.
June 13, 194l, enolosing a letter which you have addressed
894.4061 MOT1ON
to Mr. Will H. Hays, President, Motion Picturo Producers-
Distributors of America, regarding an informal complaint
made to the Mabassy by the Japanese Foreign Office against
a motion pioture entitled "The Uniform", a produotion of
the Metro-Golawyn-Mayer Company.
The Department understands that the motion pioture
in question now known as "They Met in Bombay" has been
released and is now being shown in the United States. After
tion of all the aspeots of this matter
ICTURES/
carefu. considere the Department has deemed it advisable
not to forward your letter to Mr. Hays but to bring the
mubstanee thereof informally to the attention of the Mays
organisation.
62
Very truly yours,
PS/AG
sumner thiles
Acting Socre ary of  tate
OR
A tnm copy
JUL 14 1941
the loned onp.
imel
894.4061 Motion Pictures/62
F:OL
7-10-41
FA/H
IN

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
OF
GRAY
TEM
FROM
Tokyo
894.4061 MOTION
Dated August 8, 1941
Rec'd 9:45 a.m.
yile
Washington.
1193, August 8, 3 p.m.
For Fred Heron, Motion Picture Producers and
Distributors, 28 West 44 Street, New York City from
PICTURES/63
American Motion Picture Association of Tokyo:
"Permits for expenditures, release of frozen
funds and deposits in city bank refused. Authorities
suggested we use Japanese banks. It is necessary to
ibmit entire print list to Censor Board which will
cl.iminate from distribution subjects without suitable
AUG 14 1941
FILED
ltural value. Also necessary submit individual
cokings for approval and price subject to reduction
&† the Boards censor discretion and final approval for
exhibitiog resting with local police. Universal re-
ceived letter from staff demanding fifty-five per
cent stock transfer to them, thirty per cent increase
PS
in salary, non-dismissal of staff for any cause plus
NW
other demands. Universal handling situation locally.
Will advise.
6

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
-2- 1193, August 8, 8 Psm, from Tokyo.
Will adyise, Situation leoke serious. Please ex-
amine thopoughly forwarding instructions through
State Department to Embassy at Tokyo."
GREW
PEG

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
PREPARING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Full rate
x
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect Day letter
FILE. DIV. OF ACOTS.
PARTAIR
Night letter
Department of State
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Full rate
Washington,
Day letter
Night letter
Charge to Motion Picture Producers and
$9.46
Distributors of America, Inc.,
28 West 44th Street,
New York, New York.
August
1941.
THIRBEENTH
8P.M.
AMERICAN EMBASSY
TOKYO.
499
Your 1193, August 8, 3 p.m.
894.4061 MOTION
Thursday with Anterested companies to consider motion
Hays/office/desires
picture difficulties in Tokyo.
Universal Manager Perkins to /cable through Embassy)full
details employeed' claim and what/action/Perkins has
taken to settle.
Hucl
PICTURES/63
894.4061 Motion Pictures/63
BILLED
AUG 2 6 1941
AUG 27 1941
IN! JAk: HGK
FE
FILED
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
P
1-1402
ENY PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.93)
Fele
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HOION OF
FROM
AUG 12 1941
11941
4po eb 50mDL
DEVISION O
STK
FQ NEW YORK NY 922a Aug 12 1941
Joseph Keating
Dept State WDC
Appreciate information transmitted from Tokyo companies meeting
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES/64
Thursday to discuss please query Tokyo meantime for further details
would appreciate your sending through diplomatic channels following
message for Universal "Please instruct Universal Manager Perkins
cable through State Department full details employees claim and
what action perkins has taken to settle" regards
C E MILLIKEN
e
1016a
64
163
Y
PS/AC

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
LET
GRAY
TOKYO
Division of
FROM
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dated August 20, 1941
1941
Rec'd. 12:30 p.m.
BIVISION OF
Seoretary of State,
AUG/2 1 1841.
Washington.
2
to 93
141
1276, August 20, 6 p.m.
8121
Department's 499, August 13, 8 p.m.
894.4O61 MOTION PICTURES/65
Following for Seidelman, Universal Pictures, New
York.
"Reference staffs demands embodying 30 percent
increase, no diemissals, written commitment for re-
tirement allowances 2 or 3 directors from staff and
stook allotment to staff. Sales manager has finally
backed down to the extent of agreeing to persuade staff
to withdraw its action letter in writing but this so
far is blocked by Osaka manager. You can dismiss the
staff demand as staff now realizes the impossibility
of its action being granted. The real issue is the re-
tirement allowances. Am anticipating trouble as this
AIG 2 2 1941
has been brewing for a long time. Ampa received a
FILED
letter signed by 8 sales managers demanding a unified
agreement on liquidating or dismissal allowances ex-
cept in case of dishonesty of 2 years full salary plus
PS/MS
3 month's salary for each year of service also a joint
meeting

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 1276. August 20, 6 p.m.; From Tokyo.
meeting for discussion. Each company's policy is to
handle the situation 1ndividually but all have agreed
to a meeting. While these demands have no legal basis
we have been threatened with police pressure.
Authorities have banned approximately 80 percent
of bookings submitted for approval for September.
Unguaranteed pictures approved this month may not be
banned in future and vice versa thus placing theatres
in an uncertain position. Apparently a concerted effort
is being made to force theatres away from American pic-
tures. Perkins"
GREW
GW

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
NWN
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
TOKYO
Doted Auguot.22, 1941
XN4
FROM
Rec'd 2:15
Department of State
RUNLBION OF
ToD
I
Secretary of State,
8/23/4/
Washington.
894.4O61 MOTION PICTURES/66
1294, August 22, 10 p.m.
Following for Warner Brothers Pictures, 32l West
44th Street, New York from Shathin, Tokyo:
"ReferencE your cablE nineteenth. Written
report involves too much timE sincE mail boats
unavailablE. Situation demands immediatE action with
business dwindling rapidly.. Of thirty-εight pictures
submitted for official approval for September bookings
twenty-onE disapproved. On this basis total SEptember
incomE only about yEn 1100 after deducting incomE first
run (?). Further restrictions Expected with permits
required for Every step of operction. Therefore believe
present staff can carry on, Tsukada handling sel es,
Walker bEing British can until conditions prevent
E
handlE accounting, officE routinE, Expenditures Et
P
FILED
cEtera. Fukuda to ect only as watchdog and legal
3
169
edviser. Honesty now more importent than business
ExperiencE. Other American Compenies making similar
P
S
arrangEments. If and when final break oomes wE
S
would havE no control over businEss enyway. If you
a
工
1
have

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
 1094, August 22, 4 p.m., From Tokyo.
havE alternetE plan pleesE advisE. Absolutely
necessary for mE to bE ready to leevE sincE much red
tapE involved securing various permits. Possibly
already too latE. AppreciatE increasE but unfortunately
cannot draw becausE of freezing."
GREW
PEG

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.95)
PARAMOUNT PICTURES INC.
NEW YORK
TIMES SQUARE
CHICKERING 4-7040
CABLE ADDRESS FAMFILM
2194
ay 23, 1941
Achenowledqment
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Honorable Cordell Hull,
Jel
Secretary of Btatey
dreftel Way27 (941
Washington, D.C.
cc
Department of Stalel
Attention of Walter A. Adams, Esq.,
Mo
Assistant Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
94.4061
Sir:
Following my meeting with Mr. Adams, in Washington, on
May 21, 194l, in reference to the purchase by Paramount Films, Ltd.
MOTi ON PiCTURES/67
in Japan of Jepanese Government bonds and the commi tment of such
Company made to the Japanese Government to purchase additional bonds,
it seemed to me desirable that I set forth briefly the facts involved
in this transaction. Paramount Films, Ltd., on whose behalf this
letter is written, is a corporation organized under the laws of the
State of New Jersey, all of the outstanding capital stock of which
is owmed by Paramount Pictures Inc., a New York corporation, and the
writer is the General Manager of the interests of Paramount Pictures
Inc. in the Far East and is personally familiar with the subject
matter of this letter.
Briefly, the facts in reference to this matter are as folloms:
(A) Paramount Films, Ltd., which distributes Paramount
motion pioture productions in Japan, entered into
PS/
negotiations with the Japanese Government in late 
November, l940, involving the acquisition by it of bnd
out of funds arising from its distribution over a 
AG
ED
period of more than two years of such productions
in Japan and which it was unable, due to regulationsto
414
of the Japanese Government, to remit to Paramount
Piotures Inc.; further The National City Bank of
New York, Tokyo, in December, l940, advised
Paramount Films, Ltd. to the effect that funts

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
AMOUNT PICTURES INC.
May 23, 1941
Henerable Cordell Hull
-2-
deposited by the Company with the Bank were at the
risk of the Company.
(B) Since such proposed investment of funds of Paramount
Films, Ltd. was not in the usual course of business,
the matter was referred to Paramount Pictures Inc.,
in New York, and by a cable, dated January 3, 1941,
the undersigned was advised by the Manager of the
Foreign Department of Paramount Pictures Inc. to the
effect that the proposed investment in an amount up
to eighty per cent (80%) of the acoumulated and
accumulating cash of Paramount Films, Ltd. would be
approved upon condition that permission was obtained
to remit in United States currency the interest payable
on the bonds and an agreement was obtained from the
government to repurchase the bonds at the priee paid
therefor. Such Foreign Manager while not making it a
condition of the purchase of the bonds urged that
efforts be made to obtain in connection with the pur-
chase permission to make an additional remittance in
United States currency.
(C) The negotiations with the Japenese Government continued
until some time prior to January 31, l94l, on or before
which date a definite commitment was made by Paramount
Films, Ltd. to purchase at par a total of yen 1,400,000
principal amount of Japanese Government bonds, interest
thereon at the rate of three and one-half per cent (3t%)
per annum to be remittable to New York at the official
rate in United States currency, the aggregate amount of
yen 750,000 to be purchased as soon as the checks in
payment of the purchase price could be signed by the writer,
whoms, at that time, absent from Japan and the balance
of such principal amount, namely, yen 650,000 to be purchased
from time to time as funds became available to Paramount
Films, Ltd. The terms of purchase also included the com-
mitment by the Japanese Government to permit Paramount
Films, Ltd. to remit to New York at the official rate,
in United States currency, an amount equal to ten per cent
(lo%) of the purchase price of the bonds as and when the
same.were purchased, which commitment obviously made the
transaotion particularly favorable to Paramount Films, Ltd.
(D) About the middle of February, l94l, the representative
in Japan of Paramount Films, Ltd., Mr. John Albeck,
first learned that the Department of State would not look
with favor on the purchase by Paramount Films, Ltd. of
such bonds, Mr. Albeck not having been informed of the
position of the Department in this regard prior thereto
by any member of the Embassy. Mr. Williams, the Commereial
Attache, confirmed to the writer during the writer's visit

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
AMOUNT PICTURES INC.
May 23, 1941
Honerable Cordell Hull
-3-
to Tokyo, on or about March 18, 1941, Mr. Albeck's
statement to the effect that the first adviees as
to the position of the Department received by Mr. Albeok
from the Embassy were reeeived about the middle of
February, 194l:
(E) Since Paramount Films, Ltd. had entered into the
above transaction with the Japanese Government prior
to Mr. Albeck's being informed of the position of
the Department, the Company considered itself obli-
gated to carry out its commitment and, accordingly,
on or about March 6, 194l, when the checks signed by
the writer became available for delivery to the
Japanese Government, yen 750,000 principal amount of
Japanese Government bonds were purchased by Paramount
Films, Ltd. and permission was received from the
Japanese Government to remit to New York in United States
currency an amount equivalent to ten per cent (l0%)
of the purohase price so paid and such amount was
shortly thereafter remitted.
(F) Paramount Films, Ltd., at this date, stands committed
to the Japanese Government to complete its purohase of
the balance of such bonds in the principal amount of
yen 650,000 and believes that it 1s of the utmost
importance in regard to its relations vis-a-vis the
Japanese Government that it perform its undertaking.
To summarize, Paramount Films, Ltd. without any knovdedge
of the position of the Department of State in regard to the purchase
of Japanese Government bonds, having acoumulated over a period of
more than two (2) years a substantial amount of yen which was owed to
Paramount Pictures Inc. for motion picture productions and being
unable to make any remittance of such accumulated funds and having
been advised by the National City Bank of New York, Tokyo, that the
balance in its account with such bank was at its sole risk, negotiated
an arrangement wi th the Japanese Government which it considered
extremely favorable to it in that such errangement permitted it to
remit to New York at the official rate in currency of the United States
the amount payable on the bonds, as interest, and in addition an amount

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.96)
RAMOUNT PICTURES INC.
Honerable Cerdell Hull
May 83, 1941
-4-
equivalent to ten per cent (lo%) of the purchase price of the bonts.
Furthermore, Paramount Films, Ltd. believes it might be most disadvan-
tageous to it if it should fail to fulfill the balance of its commit-
ment made to the Japanese Government.
After reviewing the facts set forth above, it is the hope of
Paramount Films, Ltd. that the Department of State will not look with
disfavor upon this Company parforming its commitment to purohase the
balanee of the bonds in the principal amount of yen 650,000.
Respectfully,
Jan E n
James E. Perkins

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.93)
90 194
FW
My dear Mr. Perkina:
894.4061 MOT iON
The recsipt is moknowledged of your lester of
May 23, 194l with regerd to purebase 1n Japan by
Paramount Films, Limited, of Japanese Government
bonds. Your letter has been added to the Depart.
ment's record with regerd to the matter.
Leur courtesy in writing is appreolated.
Sincerely yours,
For the Bearetary of State:
CTURES/
Walter A. Adams
Aseistant Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
の9
77
Mr. James E. Perkins,
Paramount Piotures, Incorporated,
PS/AG
Times Square
MAY 28 1041
New York, New York.
CC
FE:CC: FRE
FE
5-27
inal.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DATE: May 20, 1941
SUBJECT:
Proposed visit of Mr. James Perkins, Paramount Pictures,
to the Department.
PARTICIPANTS:
en of he Motion Picture Producers and Dis-
21o
894.
MN.NUMIBELN
MAY 23 1941
COPIES TO:
406
Division ef.
FAR EASTERN MEEABS
MAY 27 1941
894.4061 Motem Petues
Department of St
1-1408
Mr. Milliken telephoned from New York to the Depart-
ment of State and asked to talk to Mr. Hamilton.
Mr. Hamilton being engaged, Mr. Milliken was referred to
Mr. Adams. Mr. Milliken said that Mr. James Perkins, the
representative in Japan of Paramount Pictures was in
New York and wished to call at the Department of State and
explain the action of Paramount Pictures in purchasing
8
Japanese Government bonds with balances which Paramoun
JUNX
Pictures had accumulated in Japan. Mr. Milliken wondored
whether Mr. Hamilton or Mr. Adams would receive Mr. Perkins
and liten to him. Mr. Milliken said that Mr. Perkins
P
S
expected
G

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
expected to fly to Washington on Wednesday, May 21 and
would arrive in Washington about 10:30am.
Mr. Adams suggested that Mr. Perkins call on him
in room 372 at 11 a.m. on May 21.
Mr. Milliken thanked Mr. Adams and the conversation
there closed.
m.n.1.
FE:Adams:MBW

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.96)
FAR EA
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
MAY 27 1941
Memorandum of Conversation
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894, 4061 Motion
DATE: May 21, 1941
Cohy sent to Tokyo
SUBJECT: Puro
may 28
ANONIVND
JUN 2 - 1941
PARTICIPANTS: Mr. James Perkik
Far Eastern representative of Paramount
DIVISION OF
Pictures, Inc.
Paramount Pictures, Inc.
894.4061 MOT ION PiCTURE
Mr. Adams
COPIES TO:
Mr. Coville
MR. HUHNBECK
MIVISION OF
OFFICE OF THE ADVISER UN
ADVISER
MAY 23 1941
I:
INTERNAIINAI FCONOMIC AFFAIRS
MAY 24 1941
MAX23 1941
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mr. Perkins called by appointment upon Mr. Adams and
was accompanied by Mr. Clement. Mr. Perkins stated that
his purpose was to explain to the Department how it was
that Paramount had purchased Japanese Government bonds
when the Department had advised against such purchase. The
E
pertinent part of Mr. Perkins' explanation was that the
S
representative in Japan of Paramount had committed the
9
6
company to the purchase before the attitude of thec Depart-
FILED
ment was made known.
2
Mr. Perkins and Mr. Clement incidentally stated ti
t
4
PS
the company had committed itself with the Japanese Govern-
/AG
ment to purchase bonds to the value of ¥1,400,000 and that
in view

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
in view of the Department's attitude, the company will
make no purchase of Japanese Government bonds in excess
of that commitment. They stated that a part of the agree-
ment between Paramount and the Japanese Government was
that the Japanese Government would issue permits for the
remission to the United States in dollars of a sum
equivalent to one-tenth of the amount of bonds purchased,
and that such permits have in fact been supplied; that
permits are currently granted for the remission of proceeds
of interest at 3 1/2 percent on the bonds; and that the
company's profits in Japan are continuing to accumulate
at the rate of approximately ¥100,000 per month.
Mr. Adams thanked Mir. Perkins and Mr. Clement for
calling and stated that the Department is appreciative of
the company's interest in desiring to acquaint the Depart-
lsatlitnde
ment with theots in the case.
7
3.7.11
WAA
CC
FE:Coville:OJL

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.93)
aray
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSHITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
Full rate
TELEGRAM SENT
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Collect {Day letter
X
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
(Night letter
T DM
Charge Department:
Department of State
PLAIN
Full rate
Day letter
Night letter
Washington,
Charge to/Motion Picture Producers and
28 West 44th Street,
New York, New York.
September 6, 1941.
6PM
AMEMBASSY
TOKYO (JAPAN).
56.11
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
Hays/organization Anformed that/a compromise/settle-
894.4O61 MOTION
ment of/aifficulties between local/offices/of/American/
motion/picture companies and their /employees/has been/
proposed, the /deadl ine for acceptance being/next Tuesday
Tokyo time. Hays organizetion/would appreciate /detailed/
information /concerning terms of/proposed /settlement las
well as your views as to advisability of/American com-
panied accepting/settlement.
HILLED
CTURI
(1)
(Sent at request of
SEP 1 8 1941
Governor Milliken
of Hays organization.)
DIVISION OF ACCOUNTS
fol
S
E
a4
/69A
INtFasW:HGK
PA/H
newr
SEP18194
PLED
S
Enciphered by
/MS
Sent by operator
M.,
19
1-1402

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
2eM
GRAY
FILE, DIV. OF AQO
Tokyo
FROM
Dated Septembe 7, 1941
SEP 15 1941
Rea'd 8 a.m. 8th.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Mill hei's
Telephred
Division of
9/8/41
Secrrtary of StatE,
11.25am
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Sechetary-
AEP 10 1941
Washington.
fil
Department of State
Jou
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
1421, SEptEmber 7, 8 p.m.
694
DepartmEnt' s 567, SEptembef 6, 6 p.m.
Detailed information concerning terms of pro-
posed sEttlement contained in tElEgram sEnt by local
894.4O6I MOTION PICTURES/70
officE to RKo PicturEs, SEptember 5. ThesE terme are:
(onE) paymEnt onE month's salary for Each yEar's sEr-
vicE or fraction therEof up to fivE yEars; (two) bE-
yond fivE yEars, onE and onE half month's salary;
(threE) paymEnts will bE madE Either upon voluntary
retirement or dischargE for causes other than dis-
honEsty; (four) protection against unreasonablE re-
legnidatton
signetions; (five) further special mE allowances
may bE granted but only at thE discretion of the rE-
spEctivE company managers; (six) nEcEssary funds to
cover thEeE allowancEs arE to bE madE availablE from
Iocal operting accounts payable only against the
SEP181941
signaturE of
L
P
S
M

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
FILE, DIV. OF AO
-2- 1421, SEptember 7, 8 p:m. from Tokyo.
signature of the local company manager.
ThesE arrangements werE made through thE mEd-
1ation of thepolicE with the knowledgE and assist-
ancE of this Embassy and it is rEcommEnded that they
bE accepted promptly as they arE considered rEasonablE
and best obtainablE under Existing conditions. It 1s
further suggested that 1mmediatE repliEs bE given by
parent companies so the matter can bE sEttled by
Tuesday, 2 p.m. Tokyo timt. 27.46.
GREW
BILLED
SEP 1 6 1941
HPD
DIVISION OF ACCOUNTS
She Lat.  co 
from interested party cost
of this cablegram. $27.76

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
FILE. DIV. OF AOOB
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
TELEGRAM SENT
Full rate
x
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Mont (Day letter
PARTAIR
Night letter
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Department of State
Fuli rate
Day letter
Washington.
Night letter
Charge to Motion Picture Producers and
THIRTEENTH
$
30.80
Distributors of America, Inc.,
28 West 44th Street,
New York, New York.
Septemb
AMEMBASSY
BILLED
TOKYO (JAPAN).
1)
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
0614 1941
894.4061
Following from Hays organization:.
SOF ACOTS
QUOTE All companies agree in principle to settlement
proposed in cable of September 3 to Rko but some individual
companies have raised following points which they desire
considered before final decision:
MOTI ON
1. Companies must retain right to liquidate business
any time they choose.
2. Japanese Government should agree to release suf-
89
0
ficient frozen funds to cover indemnities if income from
iCTU
current operations 1s insufficient in event of liquidation.
5
3. Companies surprised no concession granted them
7
such as additional 1mport permit which certainly would be
S
in employees' interest if American companies are to stayo
FILED
in business.
9
764
P
4. Cannot see what protection possible against
S
unreasonable resignation. Therefore suggest half 1ndemnity
BH
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
1-1402

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.95)
FILE, DIV. OF ACOTS
PREPARING OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
TELEGRAM SENT
Full rate
NONCONFIDENTIAL ODE
Day letter
PARTAIR
Night letter
PLAIN
Charge Department:
Department of State
Full rate
Day letter
Washington,
Night letter
Charge to
-2-
$
in case of resignation.
5. Funds for indemnities must be segregated.
6. Agreement limited to two years. UNQUOTE.
Please tranemit foregoing to the Film Board for its
consideration and telegraph its comments thereon.
Huu
(91)
BILLED
0014 1941
CR
eax
13 1941
DIVISION OF ACCOUNTS
cC
IN:FdeW:HGK
FE
PA/H
WA
0.4
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
1--1402

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.93)
Division of
TEM
GRAY
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
AEP 22 1941
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
Dated Septepber 19,941
Recta 12140 pime
FROM
 yifrmall to
gorerun millifken
Secretary of Stat
DIVISION OF
9119/41
INTFRNATIOON SOUNICATIONS
2 Talypaomed to
goraes mill ers
SEP 20 1941
SEP 2 4 1941
9/20/41
Aeen
Fawoef/inx
TRIPLA PRIORITY
1484, SEptEmbEr 19, 4 p.m.
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES/7I
DEpartmEnt's 589, SEptEmbEr 13 noon.
FOLLOWING FOR HAYS ORGANIZATION FROM MOTION
PICTURE COMPANIES:
"Ampa has unanimously accEpted following final
answer which pleasE confirm immediately:
OnE. Dismissal allowancE: (1) onE month's
palary for Each yEar af Employment up to fivE yEars;
(2) onE and onE-half month's salary for Each yEar
of EmploymEnt longer than fivE yEars, calculated
from first day of last Employment datE; (3) in
casE of dismissal at timE of liquidation or closE
of offict of Each company agrees to pay at its aie-
cretion a special bonus in addition to said dis-
missal allowancE according to thE mErit and sErvicE
of Each EmployEE.
Two.
PS/MW
SEP 2 6 1941
FILED

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.96)
 #1484, September 19, A pam, from Tokyo
Two. Resignation allowancE: In casE of
rEsignation of an EmployEE, onE-half of thE dis-
missal allowancE mEntioned above. In casE, however,
such rEsignation is duE to military sErvicE or 1ll-
nEes, which shall bE characteristics by compEtent
physicians satisfactory to company Establishing the
fact of such EmployEe's incapacity to attend to his
duties, thE abovE rulE of diemissal allowancE shall
apply.
ThrEE. Remarks: (1) thE pEriod of Employment
to bE calculated based on consEcutivE pEriod of
sErvicE from thE datE of last Employment; (2) any
fraction lEss than onE yEar to bE calculated as onE
yEar Expressly (3) in casE of thE dismissal of an
EmployeE by rEason of misconduct or unlawful act,
thE abovE dismissal allowancE shall not bE applicable.
Four. Relative to points raised in Department's
telegram no. 589: (1) l1quidation any businEss rE-
quirEs homE ministry's pErmit; (2) indEmnitiEs may
bE paid from frozen funds fond pErmits; (3) import
pErmits havE no connEction with prEsEnt casE as they
comE under juriediction of FinancE Ministry and arE
subject to Existing and further rEgulations; (4) sEE
abovE; (5) funds can bE BEgrEgatEd but sEE no advant-
agE. PlEasE ElucidatE; (6) timE limit rEJEctEd by
policE as not offering Employees dEsired sEourity.
GREW
WBB

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.95)
FILETS.
PREPARING OFFICE
TOTRANSMITTED
WILL INDICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
TELEGRAM SENT
Full rate
X NONCONFIDENTIAL DE
Collect Day letter
PARTAIR
Night letter
PLAI
Charge Department:
Department of State
Full rate
Day letter
Washington,
Night letter
Charge to
Motion Picture Producers and
7.70
Distributors of America, Inc.,
28 West 44th Street,
New York, New York.
September 23, 1941.
8PM
AMEMBASSY
894.406
TOKYO.
609
1
TRIPLE PRIORITY.
Your 1484, September 19, 4 p.m.
FOLLOWING FOR MOTION PICTURE COMPANIES FROM HAYS
ORGANIZATION:
QUOTE Companies unanimously agree accept proposals
outlined your cable September 19. UNQUOTE.
U
Hme
(8))
(Sent at request of
Gov. Milliken.)
BILLED
OCT
FILED
RLS
0614 1941
9
CC
IN:FdeW:HGK
FE
1694
DIVISION OF ACCOUNT
Enciphered by
(0
Sent by operator
M..
19
1-1402

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 5824
Tokyo, September 2, 1941
SUBJECT:
REPRESENTATIONS REGARDING DEMANDS MADE UPON
AMERICAN MOTION PICTURE COMPANIES IN JAPAN
BY THEIR JAPANESE EMPLOYEES
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES/72
Afvision of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV 1 1941
1941 273 23
Department of State
CoUNIGAIN
ECVE
DOIAISION C
File
PATENT
BIVISION OF
INTERNATIRL 
1000+JCT 2 9 1941
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
NOV 4 1941
FILED
Washington
Sir:
894.
I have the honor to report that on August 29 I called
PS/PLS
at the Foreign Office and made representations in connection
with exhorbitant demands being made by their Japanese staffs
upon American motion picture firms in Japan which may be
894.115
forced to close their business here as a result of present
adverse business conditions and the possible extension to
American piotures of the recently-enforced monopoly on
Japanese pictures. I requested that the Japanese Government
take

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
take cognizance of the difficulties of these American
companies and institute steps to extend protection to
all American firms against such threats and exhorbitant
demands.
There are enclosed a memorandum prepared by the
1/
Commercial Attaché setting forth the details of the
demands and threats made to these companies, and a copy
2/
of the oral statement which I left with the Director
of the American Bureau of the Foreign Office for the
Foreign Minister.
Respectfully yours,
Sob 6.7
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosures:
1,2, as stated
851
ESC:mg
original and 4 copies to the Department
Copy to the Division of Commercial Affairs

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 5824 of September 2, 1941,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Tokyo, August 28, 1941.
Memorandum to the Ambassador:
This afternoon I was visited by a delegation com-
prising representatives of all the American motion picture
companies now operating in Japan. These men informed me
that each one of them recently has received demands from
their staffs for a written guarantee of retirement allowances
to be paid in the event these companies found it necessary
to close their businesses in Japan as a result of present
adverse business conditions and the possible extension
of the recently enforced monopoly on Japanese pictures to
Americen pictures.
The various staffs are demanding retirement allowances
of two years' salary plus three months' salary for each
year of service. This would mean that an employee who
had been working for a company for ten years would receive
the equivalent of 4 1/2 years' salary as a retirement
allowance. Furthermore, the total amount involved for the
eight companies on this basis would aggregate well over
one million yen.
The companies have decided to handle this matter
individually and have notified their staffs that they
would agree only to an allowance of one month's salary for
each year of service. This offer has been rejected, and
during the last two days indignation meetings have been
held in the offices of several of the companies wi thout
permission of the manager. Furthermore, the managers have
been

=== Page 261 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
been threatened with police detention and questioning, and
also with not being allowed to leave Japan in the event
they are ordered by their home offices to close their
businesses.
Yesterday the Japanese Government decided to enforce
a monopoly system on Japanese pictures confining all
motion picture production to one central company and all
distribution to another central company. It is anticipated
that the next move will be to establish a similar monopoly
over American pictures. If such a step is taken it is the
opinion of the representatives of the American motion
picture companies that their home offices will not agree
to operate under such conditions.
In my opinion this is just another instance of
forcing American companies out of Japan. At present these
eight American motion picture concerns have over eleven and
a half million yen frozen in Japan, and some of the
managers of these ∞ ncerns have been frankly told that
the police authorities at least are of the opinion that the
Japanese staffs should share liberally in these accumulated
profits.
The position of these firms is becoming extremely
critical as the Japanese employees seem determined to go
to any extremes to force compliance with their demands.
We have had reports of almost similar demands being made
on other American firms in Japan. I am, therefore, very
strongly of the opinion that this situation should be
brought to the attention of the Japanese Government and
that representation should be made urging adequate pro-
teotion to American firms against suoh exhorbitant demands
from their Japanese staffs.
FRANK S. WILLIAMS
Commercial Attaché

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 5824 dated September 2, 1941
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Copy of an Oral Statement left by the Ambassador, Mr.
Grew, with the Chief of the American Bureau of the
Foreign Office, Mr. Terasaki, on August 29, 194l.
Oral
The American Embassy is seriously disturbed over
reports reaching it concerning the exorbitant demands
being made by their Japanese staffs upon American firms
in Japan which, for one reason or another, may be forced
to close out their business.
Representatives of the American motion picture com-
panies now operating in Japan have informed the Embassy
that each one of them has recently received demands from
their staffs for a written guarantee of retirement
allowances to be paid in the event that these companies
found it necessary to close their business in Japan as
a result of present adverse business conditions and the
possible extension of the recently enforced monopoly on
Japanese pictures to American pictures. The staffs of
these companies are demanding retirement allowances of
two years' salary plus three months' salary for each
year of service. This would mean that an employee who
had been working for a company for ten years would re-
ceive the equivalent of four and one-half years' salary
as a retirement allowance; furthermore, the total amount
involved for the eight companies on this basis would
total well over one million yen.
The representatives of the companies state that
they have notified their staffs that they would agree
only to the customary allowance of one month's salary
for each year of service but that this offer has been
rejeoted

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
rejected and that as a result indignation meetings have
been held in the offices of several of the companies
without permission of the manager, and the managers have
been threatened with police detention and questioning and
with possible refusal of permission to leave the country
when the time came for them to do so.
It is to be hoped that the Japanese Government will
take cognizance of the difficulties, such as those
described above, suffered by American firms, and that
steps may be taken to extend protection to all American
firms against such threats and exorbitant demands from
their Japanese staffs.
August 29, 1941.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.92)
Sele
Cullangolo
return to 
Fcc manito
RECEIVED
F41854 TOKYO DOMEI IN ENGLISH AT 700 PMAT01TIH9400RLD
Divisiono
COMNTION AN RE
FAR EASTERN
MAY 10 1943
/TEXT/ TOKYO MAY SIX---A SERIES OF COLOR PICTURE SLIDES ILOT
TING LIFE IN JAPAN IS BEING MADE BY THE KOKUSAI BUNKA SHINKOKAI OR
IETY OF INTERNATIONAL CULTURAL RELATIONS IN ORDER TO ACQUAINT THE
ERN REGIONS WITH JAPAN. TWO SERIES EACH CONSISTING OF ONE HUNDRED
ALREADY HAVE BEEN COMPLETED BY THE SOCIETY.
THE FIRST DEPICTS GENERAL VIEWS OF JAPAN WHILE THE SECOND REVEA
94.4041.
Bictures
tion
ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL SCHOOLS. IT IS UNDERSTOOD A THIRD AND FOURT
SERIES ARE FORTHCOMING. SPECIAL APPARATUS TO SHOW THE SLIDES ALS
IS BEING BUILT. FOR THE BENEFIT OF DISTRICTS IN THE SOUTH WITHOUT
ELECTRIC LIGHT PROJECTION APPARATUS UTILIZING OIL LAMPS IS BEING MANUF-
ACTURED. /83/

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.97)
894.4061
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Wotion picture films in the United States owmed
by the Japanese Government:
Encloses oopies of the Report and Recommendation and
a copy of the proposed Vesting Order in the case
of - Inquires if the Department perecives any
objeotion to the proposed aotion.
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
letter
(Despatoh, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated...June..5,.1943.
Alion Proparty Custodian
To
File No. ...740.00lls.P.W...Japanese..Goxernment/1
P. S. GOVERNNENT PMINTING OFFICE I—1540
100

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.95)
2423(FE)
OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION
35 WEST 45TH STREET
Let. to
NEW YORK, N. Y.
AUG1 41943
8/19 gmB 71
RCOEIVED
AUG 24 1943
August 13, 1943
894.4061 MOTiON PiCTURES/75
ISION O
Mr. John Begg
Ass't Chief
is on o
Bureau of Cultural Relations
POSTERN AFFAIRS
State Department
40031943
Washington, D. C.
Dopa tment or Stale
Dear John:
d4o
It has been brought to my attention that there exists
a 2-reel Japanese motion picture which I believe is entitled
"OUR FLEET". I have also been informed that this picture
is now in custody of the Department of State: I am at present
producing a picture for release overseas covering every phase
Prictures
of the war in the Pacific. Such. a production as "OUR FLEET"
would naturally be of enormous value. If you know of such a
picture and have it in your possession, could you send me
a print for screening and duping of appropriate material?
Charlie Page has probably told you that we had lunch
together in New York. He is a very old friend of mine and I am
delighted to know that he is now with you.
Perhaps we can get together soon. Why don't you let me
know next time you come to New York and I will do the same
AUG 241943
if I make a trip to Washington?
FILED
With all best wishes,
Sincerely,
Th. Duuve.
PS/JB
Philip Dunne
Bureau of Motion Pictures
Overseas Branch
PORYICTORY
BUY
UNITED
STATES
WAR

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.94)
24 108
In reply refer to
RO
My dear Mr. Dunne:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of
August 13 concerning the 2-reel Japanese motion picture
entitled Our Fleet which you have been informed is in
the custody of the Department.
894.4061 MOTION PICTURES
I have checked with the interested divisions of
the Department and none of the officers with whom I
spoke seem to know anything about such a film. It is
possible that the Navy Department has it and that they
would be willing to make it available for your use in
producing a picture on the war in the Pacific. I should
iike very mueh to see your film when it is completed.
I shall try to see you on my next trip to New York,
and in the meantime if you get down to "ashington be
894.4061mol
sure to drop in at my office.
Sincerely yours,
John M. Begg
Assistant Chief
Division of Cultural Relations
6/75
Mr. Philip Dunne,
eax
Bureau of Motion Pictures,
geed ny
AUG 23 1943
Overseas Branch,
PS/JB
Office of ar Information,
24 1943
35 West Forty-fifth Street,
New York, New York.
lulus
RC:JMB:JEG 8/19/43
CI/L
IN
U-L
E
80

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.97)
894.4061 Motion Pioturo
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Attitude of Finnish Foreing Office toward Japanese Motion Picture
entitled JAPAN'S WILD EAGLES.
894.4061 MOTICN PICTURES/796
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Despatch #2673
(Despatch, telegram, instruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated.Dec. 13, 1943
Finland._(McClintock)
1/179/
File No. _81l.4061 Mation Pictures/1355
PS/LP
