894.74 Wireless Telegraph. Divided As 8**.73., February 24, 1932 - October 13, 1939 (File 1133)
ID: 894.74-1133   Pages: 108   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.74-wireless-telegraph-divided-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
ADVISER
MR. HORNBECK
UCT 171939
JI
A portion of this
Peiping vin
telegram must bE closEly
paraphrased bEforE bEing
Dated October 18, 1939
Divtaton of
REC'D BTAFAIRS
W193
DIVISION OF
Secretary of State
INTERNTIONAL
OCT181930
aAiss
Washington
DE
540, October 13, 3 p.m.
19
(Gray) PEiping's 533, OctobEr 9,  p.m.
894.74
Departr
Further complaints havE bEen rEcEived from
894.74/1
Americans ErE in rEgard to continuing inter-
fErencE of JapanEsE station wi th station KGEI at
TreasurE Island during past few days. Last Evening
reception of first half hour of TreasurE Island braod-
cast was Exceptionally clear, but when nEws program
6
7
commEnced, rEcEption was immedictEly blotted out
by station whosE announcer stated in English that
hE was broadcasting from station JZI and JZJ on
9.535 megacyeles. ThE width of thE earrier wave
of thE interfering station is too brocd and thE
sidE bands overlap on both sides, thus blotting
out stations withn a fEw kilocycles on both sides.
1939
(End gray)
As it now sEEms Evident that thE JapanEsE
F7
intend to continue nterferEncE with the only
American
G

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2- 540, OctobEr 13, 3 p.m., from PEiping via N.R.
American station which can bE generally rEceivEd in
the Far East, it is rEspEctfully rEcommEnded that
rEpresEntations bE madE to thE appropriatE JapanEsE
cuthoritiEs.
REpEated Chungking, Shanghai, Tokyo.
LOCKHART
CSB

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
1N
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
E171939
RFP
Tokyo
This tElEgram must bE
closely paraphrased bE
Datrd October 14, 1939
forE being communicated
to anyonE. (br)
FROM
REc'd 7:48 a.m.
lime. by y
SecrEtary of State
dfi.10/39
Washington
Filerrsg
520, OctobEr 14, 6 p.m.
97
PEiping's 540,/OctobEr 13, 3 p.m., and Shangha1's
894.74/198
897, OctobEr , 2 p.m.--radio interfErEncE by JapanEsE
station with broadcasts from station KGEI.
Should thE DEpartment dEcidE to instruct us to makE
reprEsEntations, it is rEspEctfully rEquEstEd that wE
bE given full dEtails concErning datE of rEgistration of
工
station KGED, assigned frequEnciEs and all pertinent data
Establishing thE international position of that station.
REpeated to Shanghai. Shanghai pleasE rEpeat to
C.
Peiping.
S
GREW
RR
FA
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMNUNICATIONS
OCT 1 41939

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
FICE
HETHER
Department of State
Washington.
1939 09 18 PM 1 43
Ootober 27, 1959.
2nm
am
DERTUAN EMBASSY,
 ± 1939
TOKYO.
B
317
Reference Peiping's telegrams to Department 525, 533,
540 of October 4, 9, and 13, Shanghai'8 897, Ootober 6,
and your 520 and 523, Ootober 14 and 16.
United States broadcasting station KdEI formerly
W6XBE operates on frequenoles 9530 and 15330 kilocyoles.
United States registration with Bern Bureau of 9530 kilo-
894.74
oycles 1s March 6, 1930, and reg1stration WeXBE now KGEI
December 15, 1938. United States reg1stration 15330 k1lo-
oyoles 1s Maroh 3, 1932, and of W6xB December 15, 1938.
Japanese registration of 9535 kilooyoles which 1s apparently
6
the frequenoy on which interference ocours 1s July 15, 1936,
and 1ta registration or station JZI apparently the offending
stathon 1s July 15, 1936. It will be observed that United
States has wide priority on original registration of 9530
kileoyoles and under terms of Washington International
FA
Radio Convention, 1927, rogistration of KGEI should have
priority over JZI, its registration reverting back to
Enciphered by
M..
19.
1-1402
MINTING OFFICE

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
Washington.
-2-
did not aotually commenoe broadoasting until Ootober 1,
1939, on 9535 kilocyoles, cons1derably later than comenoe-
ment/or broadoasting by kd1. In discussing this case, you
should avold/unduly stressing the argument of priority as
based on Washington Convention/which might possibly be sub-
joot to & different interpretation by the Japanese./ It
may, however, be mentioned along with United States priority
of original registration. You may also remind Japanese
authoritied that KGEI/ is the only broadoasting station by
which United States can satisfactorily/reach its nationals)
1n Far East/ and point out to them that interference ooours
only at intervals which would indicate that they might/ make
appropriate use of the frequenoy while at same time res-
Pledse
peoting (United States olaime
bringthese oon-
..
siderations to the attention of the appropriate Japanese
officiale and/inform them that Department /will greatly ap-
preciate their cooperation in arriving at a satisfactory
solution of this problem. Telegraph action taken and results
Huell
894.74/198
IN:HBO:BM
FE
PA/H
(2am)
3.70.
s1it
M..
19.
1-1408

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
JI
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This tElEgram must bE
Batavia
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated October 14, 1939
forE bEing communicatEd
to any onE. (br)
FROMREC'd 8:49 am
DIVISION OF
OCT 141939
SEcrEtary of StatE
0Tam to Toharse
Washington
A
October 14, noon.
File
DEpartmEnt's cablE SEptEmbEr 22, 5 pom.
hag
OnE. SErious interferencE rEcently causEd by a
continuous whistlE Exactly on KGEI wavE lEngth which may
894.74/1
bE causEd by a carriEr wavE for thE w irElEss tElEgraphy
mEntionEd in paragraph two as it has bEEn hEard to changE
from continuous tc MorsE. InterferEncE usually cEasEs
at about 10 o'clock Java timE (6:30 a.m. Pacific
6
standard timE)
Two. ThE NEthErlands IndiEs Post TElEphonE and
001 551935
tElEgraph sErvicE informs mE that thE interferEncE
by wirElEss in lorsE dEscribEd in my cablE of SEptEmber:
26-11 a.. comEs from stations 7-DK and OA which arE
not rEgistered under BErn Convention and arE bEliEvEd
to bE on board forEign (not NEthErlands) war vEssEls
FA
in thE Far Eastern waters.
ThrEE. InterferencE also ExpEriEncEd from
Hong Kong station which is only 4 kilocycles from
KGEI
7

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
-2- October 14, noon., Batavia
KGEI and which has latEly incrEasEd its strEngth.
DICKOVER
CSB

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION of
159
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
ASD
REB
FROM
This telegram must bE
closely paraphrasEd bE-
TOKYO
forE being communicated
to anyonE. (br)
Dated October 16, 1939
REc'd 10:27 p. m. O tober15
Egz
Secretary of StatE,
Washington.
523, OctobEr 16, 10 a. m.
FOR HAMILTON.
894.74/200
198
Our 520,/OctobEr 14, 6 p. m•, radio intErfErEncE.
As wE in thE Embassy arE now practically cut off from
thE nEws bulletins Emanating from station KGEI in
San Francisco owing to interfErEncE by thE JapanEsE
station mentioned I should likE to takE up this matter
with thE Foreign Minister if justified by international
rights. PlEasE ExpEditE.
GREW
001191939
FID
DDM
W2xA
A
J=7

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.92)
KN
486
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
Shanghai, China, September 1, 1939.
U
Diviston of
CONFIDE TIAL
001181939
YOEP
Memo to F
Wsg
SUBJECT:
Alleged Japarese interference ith
Broadcasts From Stations N6XB ana KGEI.
ADYISER
THE HONORABLE
9
894.74/201
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
1939
S
12
EED
OF
WASHINGTON.
PARE
I have the honor to rerer to the Department's
tefegram No. 157, Au ust 14, 6 p.n. to Chung ing,
and this Consulate Generul': telecra. r.o. 778,
August 30, a p.m., on the subject or alleged cirect
994 74
Japanese interference viti broadcasts of General
Electric International stations W6XBi and KGiI, and
1/
to enclose a copy of a memorandum, ith its enclosures
292
prepared for this office by American Trude Comissioner
A. Viola Snith.
. A copy of the article entitled "The
5
Shanghai Broadcasting Situation and Future Prosoects"
from the CHIA LIY RVIW of June 24, 1939, referred
A
to in the third paragraph of iss Smith's memorandum,
2/
is also enclosed.
Respectfully yours,
far
C. E. Gauss
American Consul General
Enclosures:
1-1801

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
Enclosures:
1/- Copy of a memoranaum, with its enclosures,
prepared by American Trade Commissioner
A. Viola Smith.
2/- Copy of the article entitled "The Shanghai
Broadcasting Situation and Future Prospects"
from the CHI. WEEKLY REVIEW of June 24,
1959.
870
TLP/Vty
In quintuplicate to the Denurtment
Copy
to Embassy,
Chungrin
Copy
to
Embassy,
Peiping
Roe

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
ber 1, 1939, om the subjeet: "Alleged Japanese
arference With Broadoasts From Stations wexBk and
(C OP Y)
Shanghai, China, August 22, 1939.
MOEMORANDUM
To: Horace H. Smith, Commercial Consul
From: A. Viola Smith, Trade Commissioner
Subjeot: Radio Interference.
Rolative to the telegram dated August 15, 1939,
rogarding interference with broadcasts of W6XBE, the
following notes may be helpful to you in preparing
your reply:
1. Lotter from George Swan, of the Shanghai Fire
Brigade Headquarters, dated March 30, 1939, speaks
of interference from a Japanese station.
2. Letter from Walter T. Sullivan dated April 25,
1939 specifically complains of interference from
Japanese stations in Shanghai, and his efforts to
have the Japanese Control Board make suitable adjust-
ments. An interview with him at the present time
might bring forth other data of value.
3. "China Weekly Review" of June 24, 1939, page 97,
carries a lengthy article entitled "The Shanghai
Broadoasting Situation and Future Prospects"--(Editorial
Correspondence)
This artiole deals with the Japanese Control Board
established in March, 1938, commonly known as the
Japanese Broadoasting Superintendence Office, located
in Hardoon Builäin under the uidance of a Major Asano.
It further records on Page 98 that:
"Besides using one station to jan another off
the air, the Control Board maintains five 1oo to
200 watt transmitters for interference only.
On these they put a "buzzer" which is designed
to make a jumble of noise..."
Mr. J. B. Powell. Editor, might possibly be able to
furnish more specifio data upon which his article was
based.
4. Personal Experience:
During the months of February to June, I was
persomally listening almost every day to woXBE for the
purpose

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
purpose of checking reception. At various times I
noticed that whenever the news programs oame on
(8:30 p.m. and 10 p.m. Shanghai time) that a buzzer
or code would out over them and make the reception
most unpleasant, if not impossible to get. I had no
aetual means of knowing from whence the interference
came.
On May 5, 1939 I invited several friends in to listen
to the special broadoast announced from W6XBE to be
made by Ambassador elson T. Johnson. We listened
quite clearly to W6XBE between 9 and 10 p.m., but
so soon as the Ambassador came on the air, a jumble
of noises blocked out the reception. It was patent
that such blooking was deliberate. Dr. J. C. Ferguson,
who was one of my guests, remarked that this was exact-
ly the type of thing which residents in Horth China had
experienced immediately after the Japanese occupation
there, and he felt sure that increasing interference
could be looked for in Shanghai from such sources.
As you suggest, the U. S. arine Radio Communications
ofrioe would doubtless be glad to check physical inter-
ference for you. R. J. Broadley, at the Radio Com-
munications Office of the Shanghai Municipal Police,
(XMPS) might also be of assistance, as he is one of
the leading amateurs here and is very cooperative.
(signed)
A. Viola Smith
A. Viola Smith,
Trade Comunissioner
Enclosures
Copied by:

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
QOPY.
SHANGHAI FIRE BRIGADE HEADQUARTERS
March 30, 1939.
Dear Miss Smith:
Have received W6XBE 9530 k.c. on the night broadcast.
On the 28th, very olear but last night not too good until
10 p.m. Found a Japanese station interfered until 8:30
p.m. when they closed down. The "Evening Post" reported
that the Station would broadoast from 3 to 11 p.m. I
assume this to be an error as I cantget them before 8 p.m.
Morning broadcast is still coming through very well.
GEORGE SWAN
Copied by:
Compared with: k

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY.
April 25th, 1939.
Miss A. Viola Smith
Trade Commissioner
United States Department of Conmerce
51, Canton Road
SHANGHAI.
Dear Miss Smith,
Publio announoements regarding the opening of the
General Eleotrio's Short Vave Station W6XBE have been
made with the request that your office would be pleased
to receive comments from local residents as to reception
and also interference which may be experienced.
For the past week I have been carrying out invest-
igations on my own in an endeavor to trace the terrific
interference to the reception of programs fron W6XBE.
I have now oome to the conclusion that the local
broadoasting station XJOB is responsible. Said station
XJO8
is listed in the publication "The Shanghai Radio Weekly"
as follows:-
XJOB - Greater Shanghai - Kilocycles 900 - Meters 333.3
Address Hardoon Building, Nanking Road.
The type of interference from XJOB is such that when
broadcasting on its fundamental frequency at 900 kc it has
extremely strong harmonios which are spread fairly well
over the entire shortwave band but more especially on the
following frequencies:- 3,500 c, 7,200 Kc, 9530 Ko,
11,300 Kc, 14,200 kc, besides the general noise level
is considerably increesed over the whole short-wave band.
The strongest and most damaging harmonic is at 9,530 Ko
where reception from any source whatsoever is entirely
"blocked". W6XBE therefore becomes impossible to receive
the minute JOB goes on the air. Besides the "blocking"
there is a heavy interference occurring over the whole
short wave band in the forn of a signal which to a
telegrapher is the figure "5" the transmission of which
goes on all the time the station is operating and makes
it impossible to obtain normal reception on most of the
short wave frequencies.
I oalled at the Hardoon Building today and after
much difficulty located the office in room No. 316 and
found two Japanese who seemed to be in charge. At first
they seemed surprised when I mentioned radio and after
a long conversation they told me that their transmitter
is looated in "Yangtszepoo". I explained the type of
interference but they showed difficulty in understanding
as it was apparent they know very little of radio theory
or practice.  I asked to be taken to their station engineer
but got very little encouragement in this direotion. I
wrote

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
wrote out a few notes and they promised to convey the
same to the engineer and said they would communicate
with me again (?).
Mr. Goorge C. Bruce whose apartment is located on
Avenue Jorfre reports similar interference and since
y reoeiver is located in the downtown district I would
assume therefore that the interference is general in
Shanghai.
The cause of the interference may be just bad
adjustment of the transmitter but I entertain certain
doubts in this regard. I understand that Chungking is
broadoasting on about the same frequency every evening
and it may be that the station XJOB which is owned and
operated by the Reformed Government (so I understand)
is deliberately causing the interference to blook out
Chungking but does it so effectively as to block out
everything else on the air.
I don't know what can be done in the matter but
I oan assure you that as long as this continues
WeXBE may just as well shut down as far as this
looality is conoerned. Therefore, I thought you would
be interested in this matter and perhaps through your
good offices approach the parties conoerned with a
view of bringing the XJOB station into line with many
other broadoasting stations in Shanghai and give us
Amoricans an opportunity of hearing broadcasts from
home for whioh we have waited many years.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Walter T. Sullivan,
c/o American Asiatio Underwriters
17, The Bund.
Copied by Vty:
Compared with:

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
.  to despateh No.   of 0. I. Gus,
Ceasul General at Shanghm1, China, dated
forence With Broadoasts From Stations waxkk and MmI."
From THE CHINA WEEKLY REVIEW, dated June 24, 1939.
THE SHANGHAI BROADCASTING SITUATION AND
FUTURE PROSPECTS
(Editorial Correspondence)
Following Japanese penetration into Shanghai,
radio broadcasting suffered the disintegration and
chaos that most businesses have experienced. In
line with their general policy of suppression and
disruption, a Japanese Control Board was established
in Maroh, 1938 with the sole aim of liquidating all
stations not in complete accord with their imperi-
alistio designs and the mission of a "New Order"
(or rather disorder) in Asia. The control Board
was given the convenient misnomer, "Japanese
Broadcasting Superintendence office," located in
Hardoon building and under the guidance of a Major
Asano. "Superintendence" in this instance meant
anything from direct interference to outright
oonfiscation of station equipment and material.
Today, after two years, radio broaucasting has
revived somewhat, if the number of stations operating
is an indication of revival-but it exists in a tense
and apprehonsive atmosphere. Without exception all
Chinese stations have "lost their voice" with which
they had previously contributed to the defense and
robuilding of a new China. Before outbreak of war
in l937, there existed thirty-five privately owned
Chinese stations, five forein ones and two government
stations. While there had been some governmental
restriotion from Nanking, the stations in the
International Settlement and French Concession
operated with a degree of independence and integrity
whioh they probably will not enjoy again as long as
the Japanese Control Board remains in Shanghai. For
the most part, the erection of a radio station did
not involve a great deal of capital, and a fairly
good station could be built from 8,000 to $2o,000,
Chinese ourrency. They could be located in a loft or,
as was most common, in a private house or store.
Radio in Shanghai was never a spectacular affair such
as it is in American and European cities even of less
magnitude and population. The regulation and control
of radio broadoasting in Shanghai prior to the Japanese
oeeupation was vested in the Ministry or Communications
of the National Government at Nanking. Sometime in
Deeember, l9s6, a board of censorship for the regula-
tion and control of programs was set up by the Ministry
of Communicetions.
After the outbreak of the war and throughout the
fighting here the Chinese stations naturally espoused

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
8
prepegande en behalr of their soldiers who were
desperetely defending Shanghai. Even after the
retreat of the Chinese army, most of the stations
continued (their appeals and voiced their solidarity
with their ountry's struggle. The Japanese of course
could not countenance this, so long after all semblance
of propagande had vanished from commercial broadoasting
of the Chinese stations, the Japanese continued reprisals
and suppressions. There was more in this policy than
mere retaliation: it was evident to the Japanese
militarists, as it is to all dictatorial forces, that
radio is one of the most potent forms of propaganda.
So long as it was beyond their control, it was an
everlasting menace to their designs. Their sole
objective was to supplant all stations by ones of
their own control.
Desiring to give as little pretext as possible to
the Japanese, the Shanghai Municipal Counoil forbade
Chinese stations within the International Settlement
from broadoasting any propaganda whatsoever. This
"appeasement" policy of the S.M.C. was not so much
the fault of the Council itself as it was the vacillating
policies of the governments, which theoretically control
the counoil. The French Concession, allowed no inter-
ference from the Japanese Control Boara, and though
no new stations were permitted establishment, those
already within the Concession enjoyed a certain degree
of immunity and license.
The first thing the Japanese Control Board did was
to dispatoh three trucks and confiscate for their own
purposes the two government station-one of which, now
XOJB, operating on a frequency of 900 kc continues to
perpetrate upon the ears of Chinese and foreigners alike
most flagrant Nipponese propaganda. They have programs
in Cantonese, Mandarin and Englisn, using DaI reports
for their news broadcasts. The Chinese programs are
extremely anti-British. As for the British, Americans
and other foreign listeners the Japanese seemingly take
pains not to offend their intelligence too much.
After the seizure the Japanese Control Board,
immodiately sent an ultimatum, in the form of a
memorandum to all radio stations advising them that
the Control Board had taken over all matters regarding
supervision, direction and suppression of broadoasting,
whioh formerly was under the jurisdiction of the National
government. A week or so later, another memorandum was
dispatehed to all stations stating that permission had
to be obtained from the Control Board before any station
could oommenoe operation and instructing all stations
then in existence to forward to the board before April 15
their permits that had been issued to them by the Ministry
of

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
of Communieations of the Chinese government. The
stations generally ignored this memorandum. Thoroughly
ineensed, the Control Board waited until April 20 and
then issued Memo No. 3., stating that if the stations
failed to register before April 27, they would be con-
sidered as having abandoned all privileges, rights of
proteotion.
Approhensive over these threats, the local station
owners held a meeting. The chairman was delegated to
request the S.M.C. to deal justly with the matter and
afford them whatever protection it could. They stated
their willingness to register with the Police Department
of the S.M.C. and were prepared to furnish whatever
guarantees necessary, toward sustaining the peace,
abstaining from propaganda or any remarks which might
be objectionable to the sensitive natures of the invaders.
But the station owners should be given credit for almost
unanimity in one thing - they would rather close their
station than suffer humiliating control by the Japanese.
Roalizing the formidable opposition to his control
board, Major Asano, tried to assure them that the "super-
intendence" office would not exceed the form of control
previously exercised by the Kuomintang government except
insofar as anti-Japanese propaganda was concerned, and
moreover it was the intention of the Board to protect
the aoquired rights of all stations then in existence.
As a result of hysteria, six of the twenty-one
Chinese owned stations finally registered with the
Control Board, and the day following the expiration
of the last ultimatum, all the remaining Chinese
stations closed down. A few days later however a total
of eight Chinese owned stations resumed broadcasting.
During these days the S..C. was forced to yield
many points as a result of Japanese threats. The Police
Department "outlawed" all anti-Japanese propaganda from
Chinese stations, but still the Japanese were not satisfied.
They agreed to negotiate and while the negotiations were
proceeding the S.M.C. promised to issue no new permits,
this being precisely whet the Japanese wanted. Chinese
desiring to install new stations had to approach the
Japanese Control Board. Finally, the S.M.C. agreed to
permit no new stations in the International Settlement
without Japanese permission. Following this, the stations
which had registered with the Japanese Control Board were
onstantly faced with new afflictions and coercions. For
no sooner had a Chinese owned station registered with the
Board, than pressure was exerted upon it to convert it
into an instrument of Nipponese propaganda.
Those stations whioh still remained adamant to the
ultimatums, had to suffer further reprisals. Having
18nored

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
Igmored a last warning to appear at the Control Board
and register, the Hwa Tung, Dah Loh Tung Fang and
Fuh Ying stations were notiried that they had
forfeited their rights to broadoast, and that their
respeotive wave-lengths were being allocated to certain
Japanese and foreign station which had seen fit to
register. The Fuh Ying (Pure Karma Buddhist Association)
had refused to register because the proprietors felt
that the religious nature of their broadoasts rendered
them immune to military and all other temporal control.
They were neither a commercial or political station and
their programs consisted entirely of prayers and chants.
However the Japanese, remaining impervious to their
protests, started station X MW on the same wavelength
980 ko to "jam" out the Buddhist station which had been
operating 980 ko for a considerable period.
The polioy of jamning out unfavorable broadcasts
has been a consistent praotice of the Japanese, and has
been one of their principal devices to effect control.
In this instance, they simply shoved one station upon
another's wavelength, so that the two stations, in being
heard together, became nothing but a series of distorted
sounds. The Japanese have done this in many cases, for
example, XHHR, the Lai Fung station, was forced to assume
840 ko. to jam HHU, the Dah Chung Hwa station, which had
been operated on the same frequency in the French Concession,
and which, because of this had felt no necessity for register-
ing with the Japanese. The Mei Sung (X S kc 1220) was
established to nullify the Tung Fang X HG, one of the most
adamant apponents of Japanese control.
But the Japanese Superintenaence Office did not
confine its persecution to Chirese ovmed stations. The
foreign owned stations came in for their share of intimi-
dation, and in the case of Hi, an American Commercial
Station, it took the forn of a direct and unveiled at-
tempt to get it off the air. The American station was
registered with the American consulete-General, being
the property of an American, P.H. Vanmeter. As 7eo kc-
was then vacant, he chose this frequency for his station.
Subsequently, he was informed by the Japanese Control
Board that his station had been changed to 8oo kc.
However, 8oo kc was the wavelength of the Sun Sun station,
which had not registered. Compliance with this order
being impossible, it was of course, ignored, and the
Amorican station continued on 780 kc. Shortly afterwards,
station XHHV, the Yeu Lien, announced that it was re-
turning to the air on a wavelength of 780 ko, this
froquenoy being assigned to it by Major Asano. The
You Lien had been closed for many months, and the only
condition upon which it was allcwed to reopen was that
it become an agent in the Board's warfare against the
Ameriean station. Following still more complications,
station XMHE is now operating on a wavelength of 720 ko.
2.
Besides

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Besides using one station to jam another off the
air, the Control Board maintains rive 100 to 200 watt
transmitters for interference only. On these they put
a "buzzer," which is designed to make a jumble of noise,
whioh some say, incidentally, is about as intelligible
as most Japanese propaganda. The Japanese also have
a pleasant habit of backing their trucks up to any
Chinese station in the International Settlement which
does not submit to their commands, and seizing their
•quipment outright. The police offer no resistence
to this high-handed action.
This summary provides but a small background,
indicative of the obstacles which have been placed in
the way of radio development in Shanghai. However,
despite these difficulties there are today 4l commercial
broadoasting stations in the city. Some of them are
duplioates, others in doubtful condition, and all of
them, dependent upon their own resources are hard
pressed to ontinue in operation. Advertising, which
is the life-blood of radio, is extremely weager, and
whatever there is, is ridiculously cheap. It is actually
possiblo to get an hour per day on a leading station at
the rate of 35o (Chinese) per month or a "spot" announce-
ment for as low as 37.50 per month. Rates such as these
cannot be expected to induce any startling originality in
radio broadoasts or enable the employment of talent for
public entertainment. As a result of insufficienoy of
Income it is imperative, especially for the foreign
owned stations to limit themselves almost exclusively
to reoordings, with only one or two announcers at most,
and a daily news commentator. The Chinese stations
whioh ocomprise the bulk have studio presentations at
various times, but these stations have been rendered
so innoouous by control and regimentation, that their
programs have little appeal even for their own people,
whose anxiety and resentment leaves them in a poor
frame of mind for censored entertainment.
The programs that might interest the Chinese popu-
lations, that is those coming by short wave from the
National Government Station in Chungking, are constantly
being intercepted and "jannned" by the vigilant Japanese.
Sometimes however there comes a welcome discussion in
Chinese in the form of programs by "roving" stations,
which must of course, remain as hidden here as they
do in Germany. These are the spontaneous creations of
alert Chinese in Shanghai and constitute their contri-
butions to their country's struggle. On these programs,
natiomal hymns are played, recruits summoned, and the
aims and struggles of the National Government and
leaders voiced.
The two Japanese stations XQHA (630 kc) and XOJB
(900 ke) receive financial assistance from their
govermment, hence ought to be able to give better
programs than they do. But in view of what the
Japanese have done in other fields it would be taxing
th

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
the imagination too much to expect them to exert
shemselves overmuch in spreading their oulture over
the radio, particularly in view or the obvious fact
that the Japanese radio stations, like everything else,
are under the olose control of the army authorities.
While Tokyo has a "culture" bureau in the Foreign
Ofrioe and spends vast sums in the propagation of
Nipponese culture abroad, the Japanese warlords who
are in ontrol here have little or no interest in such
things.
Station XQHA does rebroadcast some Tokio programs
which it feels might meet with the approval of Shanghai
(and the army authorities). Its propaganda and news
is "tuned" to this level and no higher. The musio is
almost exclusively recordings, although programs some-
times consist of German and Italian operas sung in
Japanese. The other main Japanese station, XOJB, was
formerly the Chinese government Civic Center station.
After its confiscation, it became headquarters for
Japanese army radio propaganda in shangnεi broad-
casting in Mandarin, Cantonese and nglish. The
propaganda, as in the other station, comes in the form
of olaborate news detailing the miraculous things which
the Japanese army is accomplishing for the benefit of
the Chinese people, and how, through its heroic efforts,
the British and other foreigners have been restrained
from enslaving the entire Chinese population.
Needless to say, stations HA and XOJB have to
pay their announcers more than most other stations,
for it is obviously a severe strain on the commentator's
conscience, especially since the Japanese stations re-
quire that Chinese deliver to Chinese, and foreigners
deliver to foreigners full accounts of the Japanese
"good will" mission in China.
Besides those mouthpieces and & few other smaller
owned stations, which they have coerced into doing
their bidaing, the Japanese have still another (unofficial)
pokesman, or spokeswoman rather, in the person of Mrs.
Bobertson, who broadcasts the news of the pro-Japanese
SHANGHAI TIMES over station Z HA (820 kc), owned and
operated by irs. Robertson herself.
Two stations whioh cause Iajor Asano and his
Japanese Control Board more sleepless nights than all
the others put together, are stations XMHC and XMHA,
whioh are the most powerful stations in Shanghai. Both
are under American control and thus are outside the
jurisdietion of his "Control Board." Station XMnC is
wned by the SHANGHAI EVE ING POST and MERCURY and
expresses the sympathetic Chinese policy of the paper
im its mews broadoasts to a far greater public than the
paper eould ever hope to reach. More deleterious to
Japamsse military objectives is the fact that it
the TA MEI WAN PAO, the morning edition of whioh had been
roeentlz

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
reeently suspended from publication by the S.M.C.
as a result or Japanese pressure and police "appeasement."
Station XMHA is the property of an American, U. S.
Harkson, who is proprietor of the Henningsen Produce
Company, dealers in eggs, egg products, butter and
manufacturers of ice cream and confectionery. The
most provocative thing about this station, so far as
the Japanese are concerned, aside from the fact that
they do not control it, is the news broadcast of
Carol Aloott. As a news commentator he is by far
the most popular among the foreign population of
Shanghai, and what makes him popular among the
foreigners and Chinese makes hin bitterly unpopular
with the Japanese Control Board and its ipponese
army supporters. The Japanese claim that Alcott's
broadoasts are "pro-British," and as such are anathema
to the Nipponese point of view.
Whether the Japanese will be cble to rinally et
Aloott off the air or curl his broadcasts remains to
be seen. Recently there have been rumors of trouble
between Alcott and the manager of the station who,
allegedly did not approve of some of Alcott's state-
ments. Several weeks ego the Japanese succeeded by
pressure, intimidation and chicanery in causing the
Harkson station to discontinue the broadcasts of
THE CHINA WEEILY RLVIEW, whose weekly summaries of
world news equalled Alcott's daily news broadcasts
in popularity among both foreigners and Chinese.
Several hundred protests, more than l00 in writing,
were received as a result of the discontinuance of
THE REVIEW'S broadcast and as a result, the manager of
XMHA, fearing a loss in prestige of his station, tried
to induce the TH RV to resume, but subject to
censorship as to its utterances. The editor of THE
REVIEW rejected this offer.
Since MiA is the property of the Henningsen
interests and is primarily useful to them as an
advertising medium for their butter, ice cream and
confectionery products, it remains to be seen how far
they may be willing to go in opposing Japanese control.
The main Henningsen plant is saia to be located in
Japanese-controlled territory, hence subject to
military pressure.
The Henningsen station recently has been criticised
for its failure to re-broadcast here the independent
news and entertainment program of the famous Treasure
Island Station at San Francisco. The Treasure Island
Station (XsXBE) was tonstructed and is maintained by
the General Electrio Company (without advertising) for
the purpose of maintaining American news and oultural
contacts with South American and Oriental countries.
Its broadoasts may be pioked up here by shortwave
receivers between 7:30 A.M. and 11 A. M., and 8 P. M.
to 1l P. M. If the programs were re-broadoast by a
10001

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
looal station they could be heard by every owner of
a radio in east and central China.
It must be remembered of course, that radio,
as an instrument of propaganda is almost limitless,
in comparison with other agencies of conmunication.
News and comment which might not be so disastrous
to the Japanese interests in Shanghai, where practically
everyone is of the same mind concerning their invasion,
might be exoeedingly inflammatory in those places where
the Japanese are struggling to keep out all the truth -
that truth which they have good reason to believe, might
prove to be as disastrous an invasion for their dispotism,
as the one they had envisioned for China.
For entertainment, MC and A depend upon
recordings, giving the public anything from Beethoven
to the latest song hits, which are often quite a bit
late by the time they arrive in Shanghai. The Christian
Broadoasting Station, station ID (760 kc.) is devoted
almost exclusively to religious topics, with the exception
of news comments and occasional musical recorcings. Indeed
if an embargo were ever placed on recorus, the whole radio
industry of Shanghai woula collapse overnight with a
completeness that no strategy or edict of the Japanese
Control Board coulà ever hope to perform. liot a single
Shanghai station has hed sufficient enterprise or
ingenuity to build up its own prosrams as stations
in the United States, even in small towns, have done.
The police Department of the S.M.C. has its own
station through which it directs the activities of its
six armoured volunteer cars and its dozen or so normal
radio vans, whioh patrol the streets. The S...C. itself
also had in mind the erection of a radio station with
which to advance the music of its municipal orchestra,
but having allocated 200,000 for the orchestra and
only 3,000 or so for the radio, all logiccl accountancy,
I suppose, collapsed at this point, and vitr it the
broadcasting project.
Thus into the surchargea air of Shanghai, goes
all the confusing network of sound, all the secret code
messages and dispatches fron the private stations of the
various consulates, and military headquarters, the buz-
zing and interceptions of the Japanese, and so forth.
Shanghai is said to have more radio stations than any
other city in the world, a fact that one can prove any-
time by simply spinning the dial of his radio.
Today, radio in Shanghai as at present constituted
oan see little or nothing, now or in the future, but a
dreary prospect, and cannot fail but reflect the anxiety
and tension of these hectic days. And even those stations
beyond control of the Japanese Control Board, XMHA and
XvHc, in a position to give this city and the other cities
of

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
-9-
of China which they oover, outspoken views and facts,
may soon have to face a new dilemma and persecution.
Already the Japanese have in the process of construotion
two kilowatt transmitters, now halr completed, and
probably ready for operation next month. These
transmitters, allegedly were designed exclusively to
Jam XMHA and XHC off the air permanently, if they
ohoose to ignore the Control Board's last and final
ultimatum.
The real test will come when the Japanese
seriously try to force Alcott off the air as they
succeeded in doing with T C. I W.IY RVIEW'S
weekly sunmary of world news. Up to the present
Aloott, who also is Shanghai's best police reporter,
has had S.k.P. support, although a Japanese terrorist
onoe threw a bomb against the front door of IC while
he was broadoasting and blackmailers have written him
numerous threatening letters.
Copied by:

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
4H
FE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
VRH
GRAY
INTENNATIONNL O
Peiping, via N. R.
OCT4-1939
Dated October 4, 1939
Rec'd 1: 12 p.m.
dytts Oct. s73 9.
B
SEcrEtary of StatE,
Mxg
200894.741965.1
-1939
MR. HORNBECK
OCT1 1939
ThE Embassy has recEived complaints from Amerieans
herE that nEw and powErful radio broadcasting station which
894.74/202
bEgan broadcasting two or thrEE days ago almost complEtely
blocks out station K. G. E. I. at TrEasurE Island. ThE
communications officE Embassy guard states that thE nEw
Z
interfering station has thE call lEtters J. ( K. - J
O J which hE says indicates that it is located at Nagasaki,
Japan; hE adds that hE is rEquEsting thE Un Ed States
Asiatic flEet communications division to confirm thE loca-
tion by radio bearings.
As thE TrEasurE Island station is thE only station in
thE UnitEd StatEs which can bE gEnErally rEcEivEd by
F/WB
American and other listeners in thE Far East, the Embassy
rEspEctfully suggests that thE DEpartment may wish to con-
sider thE advisability of taking up this JapanEsE inter-
ferencE with an Ame rican radio station with thE appropriate
C
JapanesE authoritiEs at Washington or Tokyo.
RepEated to Chungking, Shanghai and Tokyo .
LOCKHART
WWC

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
AL COMMUNICATIONS TO
CRETARY OF STATE
WASHINSTON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
tila
IN 894.74/194
My dear Mr. Fly:
You are informed that under date of October 4, 1939,
the Amerigan Embassy at Peiping reported that it had re-
ceived complaints from Americans in China that a Japanese
broadcasting station, later identified as Station JZI,
Tokyo, operating on a frequency of 9535 kilocycles, began
transmitting powerful broadcasts about October 1, l939, al-
most completely effacing transmissions of United States Sta-
tion KGEI, San Francisco. A subsequent telegram of October
9, 1939, from Peiping reported that the Japanese station had
not interfered for two days, possibly because of press pub-
licity. The Embassy recommended that no representations be
made to the Japanese authorities pending further develop-
ments. However, the Embassy 1n a general reference to the
question of reception of the Treasure Ieland Station KGEI,
stated that American and other listeners at Peiping have in-
formed it that the Treasure Island station appears to them
to be in close proximity to the frequenoies of a Hong Kong
station
The Honorable
James Lawrence Fly, Chairman,
The Federal Communications Commission.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
station and a powerful Berlin station. They have expressed
the hope that the Treasure Island Station KGEI might shift
to another frequency or increase its power so that it might
be heard in China, regardless of the reported proximity of
other atations.
The Department reali zes the probable impossibility of
changing the frequency of Station KGEI and the fact that
an increase of its power may not be feasible, and 1s so
informing the Embassy at Peiping. Nevertheless, it brings
these statements to your attention for any action which
you may find it possible to take. In the meantime, it is
watching the situation with great care, and will approach
the Japanese authorities at the proper time with a view
to eliminating interference from Japanese sources.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
George S. Messersmith,
Assistant Secretary

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
PREPARING ORFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
WILL INDIOATETHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL OOOR
(Full rate
Collect Day letter
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
Night letter
PANTAIR
Charge Department: X
PLAIN
Washington. 7
Full rate
Day letter
October, 1939.
Night letter
Charge to
AMERICAN EMBABSY,
PEIPING. via nR
223 SEVENTH
Your 525, Ootober 4.
Confirm oall letters and report if possible frequenoy
of interfering Japanese radio station. This information
urgently necessary before representations are made to
Japanese authorities.
894.74/202
te
(101
894.74
A
4
OCT
A
IN:HBO:BM
NOO
FE
peu
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
1-1462

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
EDA
CRAY
TOKYO
FROM
Dated October 24, 1939
REcEiVEd 7:04 a m
Secretary of StatE
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington
UC1271939
Department of Stats
548, Octobεr 24, 5 pom.
DEpartment s 302, October/6, 5 p.m., press wireless
894.74
radio interfErence.
Ministry of Communications urges that information
rEquEstEd in our 436, August 25, 6 pom., as to rEcEiving
894.74/203
strength of stations JDK and KJY, calculated in dEcibEls
if possiblE, bE ExpEditEd in order to procEEd with study
of this question.
GREW
RR
DIVISION OF
OFFICE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
001271939
Ris
OCT241939
28
DEPARTMENT OF
STATE
FilaHso
CCT
1939
A
11

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.97)
October 28 1989
My dear Mr. Fly:
Referring to previous correspondemce in regard to
interference by Japanese radio station JDx with Press
Wireless station KJY, I enolose a copy of a telegram
frem the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo urging in behalf of
8
the Mimistry of Communications of Japan the submission
6
4.74/
of data regarding the degree of interference experienced,
and partioularly data concerning the receiving strength
of the above-mentioned stations, caloulated if possible
203
in desibels.
3
Inasmuch as it appears that the problem under dis-
oussion arises from interference by Japanese station
JDx with the receipt in Manila by the Philippine Press
Wireless of transmissions from station KJY, I desire to
be informed whether your Commission 1s able, with the
facilities available to it, to ascertain the comparative
FA
reeeiving
The Menerable
James Lawrenee Fly,
Chairman, Pederal Commumications Commission.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.91)
recciving strength at Manila of missions from stations
JDK and KJY.
A similar communication is being addressed to the
Department of the Interior in order to enlist, if pesgible,
the assistance of the Philippine Communications Admimietre-
tiom.
Sincerely yours,
For the Becretary of State:
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Seoretary
Enclosure:
From Tokyo,
Ootober 24, 1939.
A true capy of
the signed origi-
nal.
0 27 1039 P
X
2onA
IN:HBO: FMB:88
gin
PI
RLB

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.98)
October 28 1939
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
This Department has, over a considerable period,
received complaints from Press Wireless, Incorporated,
through the Federal Communications Commission, of seri-
ous interference with its radio station KJY, Daly Oity,
89
California, by emissions of Japanese radio station JDK.
94.74/
Station KJY operates on a frequenoy of 17440 rilocyoles
and station JDK on a frequency of 8720 kilooyoles. It
has been suggested that the interference arises from the
20
second harmonio of station JDI. The Japanese Communica-
tions Administration has been requested through the
Amerioan mbassy at Tokyo to place a parallel tuned oir-
ouit tuned to the frequenoy of 17440 kilocyoles on each
wire of the JDm transmission line to eliminate or greatly
FA
reduee the second harmonio radiation. Instead of taking
that action the Ministry of Communications of Japen has
urged the submission of information concerning the
location
The Memerable
Eareld L. Iokes,
Seeretary of the Interior.

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.93)
lesation, time and degree of interference (receiving
strength of stations JDK and KJY, caloulated in decibels
if posstble) and any other pertinent information.
It will be appreciated if you will bring this matter
to the attemtion of the appropriate authorities of the
Philippine Commonwealth and request them, if possible, to
ascertain the comparative receiving strength at Mamila of
emissions from stations JIK and LJY, caloulated in deeibels
if practicable, inasmuch as the difficulty appears to arise
with interference by station JDx with reception at Manila
of emissions of station IJY.
Simcerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
George 8. Messersmith
Assistant Secretary
271039 P
MOUAA
IN:HBO:FMB:88
10-86
20
RLB

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
Thie telegram must bE
Tokyo via Shanghai & N. R.
FROM
closely paraphrased bE-
fore being communicated
Dated October 25, 1939
to anyone. (BR)
REc'd 7:30 a.m.
SEcrEtary of State
OCT 301939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington.
WAA
552, Octobεr 25, 1 p.m.
DEpartment's 317, OctobEr 18, 2 p.m. JapanEsE radio
interference with KGEI.
Memorandum along the lines of Departm nt's telegram
was presented to the ForEign OfficE today.
894.74/204
Shanghai pleasE repE at to PEiping.
DDM
GREW
NTEN
0193
CCT311939
F
5

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.92)
Gray
PANING OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
WILL INGNDATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIALODE
Full rate
Day latter
NONDONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
Night fetter
PARTAIR
Depertment:
PLAIN
Full rate
Washington.
24
Day letter
1939 0 24 PM 6 18
Night letter
Charge to
October 28, 1939
7pm
VIA NAVAL RADIO
AMERICAN CONSUL
SHANGHAI (CHINA).
414
Your 918, October 18, 4 p. m.
894.74
Telegraphic instructions have been sent to Embassy,
Tokyo, for negotiation with Japanese authorities for
elimination of interference by Japanese radio station
JZI with United States station KGEI. Suggest you 
200N
0
immediately to Embassy, Tokyo, pertinent portions of
5
your 918, October 18, and copy of your confidential
despatoh 2486, September 1, 1939.
Hell
844.74/265
(5m)
103.01 Shangher
A
19391
1/
IN:HBO:FMB:88
Enciphered by
Sonst by operator
M.,
19.
1-1603

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
10.81Shangha1 (FRUM)
FOR Tel. f918, 4pn
894.74205
FROM
Commercial Attache
Gauss
DATED Oct. 18, 1939
1T91
NAME
1-1127
Radio stations.
REGARDING:
Co.nnencing October fi rst apanese station
styling itself as ZI and JZK, completely
blotted out KGEI Tr asure Island st:tion
San Francisco. Interference from ZBW Hong
.on has also been very bed.
an
ah
2
7
5

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
102.81 Shanghai (FROl)
Te1. #920, 1pm
SEE
FOR
FROM
Commercial Attache
Geuss
) DATED Oct. 20,1939
3
T91
NAME
1-1127
Radio rec ption from Preasure Island.
REGARDING:
Shanghai American rechnical Connittee states
it is convinceu that satisfactory reception
fron KGEI will never be possible so long as
Hong Aong ZBW anu capanese stati ns ZI remain
on their present frequencies.
ah
2
0
7

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
FLY, CHAIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
AVEN
WASHINGTON, D. C.
HENRY PAYNE
ERICK I. THOMPSON
1939 0CT 31 AM 10 34
OCT 30 1939
AD H. BROWN
31939
VIS
MMUN CATONS
The Honorable
AND RECCRDS
INTERNATIONAL COMATIONS
The Secretary of State.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
General Electric international broadcasting station KGEI, Treasure
The United States notified this frequency on March 6, 1930, and it
894.74/207
has been in use by the General Electric Company since before 1928. It
will be noted that there is no Japanese registration on this frequency,
according to the latest list of frequencies, published by the Bureau of
the International Telecommunication Union, Bern,,but that Station JZI
was notified on 9535 kc on July 15, 1936, and has been in operation since
8/4.
November 13, 1936. Accordingly, it would appear that the United States
and Station KGEI have clear priority on the frequency 9530 kc.
Specific reference to the interference occasioned by Japan on this
frequency is contained in cablegram No. 123 in two sections from the
United States Consulate General in Shanghai to the Secretary of State.
The Commission has had this frequency monitored both at San Pedro,
California and at Honolulu, T. H. end finds that Station KGEI is suffering
severe interference from Japanese stations, particularly Station JZI.
For example, on October 16, 1939, at 7:55 p. m. Station JZI was measured
as operating on 9533 kc and at that time the Inspector reported the
following:
"It was impossible to separate the two signals
without using the 'sharp tuning' adjustment of the
Halicrefters Receiver, and while with this adjustment
it was possible to tune in either signal alone, there
was still a strong 4000-cycle hetrodyne present.
"Station JZI signed off at 8:00 PM (HST), and
just previous to signing off announced in English that
'Station JZI operated on a wavelength of 31.46 meters,
or a frequency of 9535 kilocycles.' It is believed that
FA
this particular broadcast is presented daily from 7:00
to 8:00 p. m. HST (2:30 to 3:30 p. m. Japanese time)."

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
Because of the seriousness of this situation, and also because
of the authoritative data submitted by the Commission Inspector and
by Consulate General Gauss in the cablegram referred to above, this
matter is brought to your attention in the thought that in case you
have not already done so, you may wish to make immediate diplomatic
representations to the Japanese Government in an effort to eliminate
this objectionable interference.
Sincerely yours,
Samuloouely
Chairman

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 26, 1939
PA/E:
Reference IN's attached memorandum of
October 19, 1939, with special reference to
Mr. Otterman's suggestion that we refrain
from bringing to Japanese notice at present
the information we have received in regard
to interference with the Treasure Island
stat1on by XJOB (XOJB).
In response to an inquiry made by me
at Mr. Hamilton's suggestion, Mr. Otterman
said that the Department in its telegram
no. 419, October 24, 7 p.m., to Shangha1 had
suggested that Shanghai mail immediately to
Tokyo a copy of Shanghai's despatch giving
information conoerning interference with the
Treasure Island station by XJOB.
MR. HUNBELK
0C1 2 1939
DEPARTMENT OF STAILE
MAA
FE:Adams:HJN

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
ADVISER
MR. HORBECK
OCT271939
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMIUNICATIONS
vinion
October 19, 1939
LASTERN APTAIRS
A
The enclosures to the attached despatch from Shanghai
raise two questions of interest in connection with the al-
leged Japanese interference with Treasure Island Radio Sta-
tion KGEI, formerly W6XBE. They are:
(1) The allegation by a local resident of
894.74/208
Shanghai that the Japanese interference is caused
by a severe harmonic of Shangha1 Station XJOB
(sometimes indicated as XOJB) operating on 900
kilocycles. That station is now purely a Japanese
propaganda station receiving financial assistance
from the Japanese Government. Station XJOB (XOJB)
cannot be found in the Bern Bureau publications.
(2) An American-operated station in Shanghai
has been criticized for its failure to rebroadcast
transmissions from the Treasure Island Station. It
is stated by a local Shanghai paper that if the
programs from Treasure Island were rebroadcast by
a local station, they could be heard by every owner
of a radio set in East and Central China.
It 1s suggested that in view of our telegram of October
18, 1939, to Tokyo, regarding interference with the Treasure
A
Island Station by the Japanese Station JZI, we refrain from
bringing this supplementary information regarding XJOB (XOJB)
to Japanese notice at present.
With respect to the rebroadoasting of Treasure Island
programs, it is doubtful whether any station in China could
be

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.94)
-2-
be found which would undertake to rebroadcast Treasure Island
broadoasts, and if such a station could be found, it is pro-
bable that the Japanese would very quickly "jam" its broad-
casts or put it out of operation entirely.
Thomas Burke
Attachments
IN:HBOtterman:LM
Hs0

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.80)
Lee
84420211/204
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
S
3
01-41939
F
F
X
C
C
Department of State
AN
LE
C
RE
AHTME
00
Hon if
Accamsir:
ove just
comfelite
TZ.6
25;24.11.80
Rels oulle mu periot furt
mow at L.30 Am. 1.9.30 PM.
Monday Got4
the new
00
gaan Gee21 ie
drastic atefes a
by the frrnce
LA
mas thee say, safe guurd pmc

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.72)
Tley effpect to bring aier
ent of afiram
in whick trecy epfect tome tmeour
complicationt to arise irthe Forige
Powrs im Erume. me firerent
Jfeame Ja ter oed
ant thit fact cod swe me, to theer
withdrawel from the wili Commmon
is tie Tact urthe bemony tly
E fit 4  ather cfelications have
arison since thal time that mabes
thes stefe on epome f a.
 ated wiy iley that the
eed o
to a 
with theted aee e
in Naleng ton f  w 
saferorach four feclency on thit
nmetter   ct lo
tering m

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.80)
isg rat onces and there har been
5changer, brought about im the
Jafranese high Command in the
There har alro a move been made
in which the hefirmere Hig lh Sear
fleet in sidlued im the may wmay
for you to no iny thle
Gmbasaidor of this matter  a
he atnt alreary
ed sy HesM ijasly 
A serious engagimut toale puce
at Chang Lor bet 2ed betiveen deveal
Sonet E15 tyreCine/
Athe fafuancse ir Craft tatter
an mell as several ganty mith.
5 dapanese gomboath have leen
withdrawn froom service on the

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.78)
Yang Keye Kang aiver
crent as he kaic wire me
elsewhare m the tem
is recent chamig a weli be ming
on filenty of megaciation with the
heads of the narions tit
over the wm id sodcom tabeenig the
liberty f molifying yourE feelency
o the rilatter ar we are interested
4
Whis lter sheould reach youse
via air mail AWould wire but
there in to mutcl to efferaim no
Itae   a
contact mafic here dayly n thuer
May lay Srasth Sonth lema Brod
cait As a the air ine languagel
fromm 1 to 9.30 A.M1. E.S.T. 15.160ke/s
L.Z.K. 1 elha 25:42 mcter/1. 800 ke/s
L.Z.6, Leave motifyM., Slawre
See F. C.C. + toll tim fon mee to
hhave the Uriefe and tnet
Fong inser i of the F'ot, git on there

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.79)
r contacts, They both have Scott
Beceivers and should be able to
contact them, ave, had conerfe
andence with Mtr I louie im the
frast in regard to ceitin D.L.D.
Broadcasts to Africa f. lhes
erman Short Nave Hations.
Phat fake telefolione call lintwesn
Bullich + Biddle im Harrau
the mn Shoit Have Itetrins
had anthe Hore Sifet was
good wonnt it? Imenthy aleo
jricked it up oand mate siveral
comente im megim e mit.
It lodlet at mesant as if they
are rall noteing the Rejub bican
taceet in Germany a

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.73)
it seerns to me that ang
that ilethu
chaing ed im any M
brell if thel efit of State o the
War oefit orthe Fh tare short
f fafcanese trmmmiuon tie
charte,  m Ai
friequency, timdly lit me binow
will foward yow thier mewr
reviged hnoadeart scherlual to
iof tiernme
brimf omed of  chm tince.
Aly win II live here on our farm
t
643 batmy sete d are not altogat
the 6 Cntonicnte dony ly rindhe-
deng a  Ctilia
cwill helfe syou  ay my we
canm. offect the tefe tro to call.
Yours triuly Sart ficholan

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
Minneapolis, Kansas
Oct 20d 1939
MENT
Hon. Mr. Hull, Sec of State
OCT 11 1939
RECEI\
DEPART
Washington D C.
0CT 1 1939
Dear Sir:
DIVIS!!
from Station J.Z.J. Tokyo, Japan 25.24 mōters 11.800 KC/S on
the news period just now at 6:30 A.M. C.S.T. 9:30 P.M. Monday
Oct. 2ed Japanese time. The facts are Mr. Hull that the new
Cabinent conviened today Oct 2ed in Tokyo and some drastic
steps are taken viewing recent developements in Europe by the
8
6
Japanese Government to as they say, safeguard Japanese posi-
4
tions in South China. They expect to bring about a settlement
of affairs in general with China in which they expect some
2
serious complications to arise with Foreign Powers in China.
0
6
The present Japanese Foreign Minister pointed out this fact
and oweing to thier withdrawel from the AntiCommonistic Pact
with Germany & Italy Sept 4th, other complications have arisen
since that time that makes this step on Japans part necessary.
He stated very frankley that the Japanese Government expected
F
to re-double thier efforts at once to bring about an under-
A
standing with the United States in the Orient. The Japanese
Minister in Washington perhaps will also aproach your Excekency
on this matter at once. They expect to bring about a new orden
in East Aisa at once, and there has been 5 changes brought Bbout
3
in the Hapanese high Command in the Army, 4 Officers there &
1 in the Navey. There has also a move been made in which the
Japanese High Seas fleet is involved in the Maylay Straits Dist,
& it might be well for you to notify the Brittish Ambassidor of

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
this matter in ease he hasnt already been amformed by His
Majestys Government. A serious engagement took place at
Chang Coo Oct 2ed between several Soviet E 15 type Chinese
Plains & the Japanese Air Craft Batteries, as well as several
Infantry units. 5 Japanese gunboats have been withsrawn from
service on the Yang Keys Kang rover as thier crews as he said,
were needid elsewhare in the Japanese Navey. This recent
change will bring on plenty of negociation with the heads of
the various foreign Depts over the world, so I am takeing the
liberty of notifying your Excelency of the matter, as we are
interested. This letter should reach you Oct 3rd via air mail.
Would wire but there is to mutch to explain so I take this
method. This praticular contact I make here dayly is thier
Maylay Straits & South China Broadcase & is on the air in 5
languages from 7 to 9:30 A.M. E.S.T. 15.160 KC/S J.Z.K. & also
25.42 meters 11.800 KC/S J.Z.J. Please notify Mr. T. J. Slowie
Sec. F.C.C. & tell him for me to have the Chiefs and Assistant
Engineers of th F.C.C. get on these Jap contacts. They both
have Scott Receivers and should be able to contact them. Have
had correspondence with Mr. Slowie in the past in regard to
certin D.J.Q. Broadcasts to Africa from the German Short Wave
Stations. That fake telephone call between Bullick & Biddle
in Warsaw the German Short Wave Stations had on the News Sept
28th was good wasnt it? Duventry also picked it up and made
several coments in regard to the matter. It looks at present
as if they are all voteing the Republican ticket in Germany
as friequently they call D.J.B.-B, not as in Berlin but as in
Borah. Incidentally it seems to me that any Legialation that

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
suits those stiffs ought to be chainged in any Nation. Now
Mr. Hull if the Dept of State or the War Dept or the F.C.C.
are short of Japanese transmission time charts, guides or
Domain Dispatch friequenoys, kindly let me know & I will
forward you thier new revized Broadcast schedual to date, as
they still think I am a good friend of thiers and keep me
imformed of all changes in time. My wife & I live here on
our farm & have two Philco Receivers type 643 battery sets
& are not altogather isolated from the world as we make the
6 Contiments dayly includeing Asia, Africa & Asutralia & will
help you in any way we can. Expect the Jap bro to call.
Yours truly
Earl Nicholas
Minneapolis Kansas R F D 2

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.95)
October 16 1989
My dear Mr. Nioholas:
The receipt is acknowledged of your letter of October
2, 1939, in regard to foreign radio propaganda directed
toward the United States.
894.74/209
The Department thanks you for your interest in this
matter and appreciates your cooperation. It may be added
that sohedules of Japanese broadoasting stations have
from time to time been made available to the Department.
Sineorely yours,
Thomas Burke,
FA
Chief, Division of International Communications
Mr. Earl Nieholas,
CR
OCT 1619
L.F.D. 2,
Mimneapelis, Kansas.
V
C
m
erigt

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.96)
1Y
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
October 12, 1939
IN
Mr. Burke
Summarizing the attached letter from Mr. Earl Nicholas,
he reports that Japanese Station JZJ, Tokyo, ll800 kilooy-
cles, broadcast news at 9:30 p.m., Japanese time, October 2,
1939. The efforts of the station apparently tend toward
F
the development of friendly relations with the United States.
Mr. Nicholas then refers to Japanese fleet operations in the
8
6
Malay Siraits, and suggests that we notify the British Am-
4.74/
bassador. He refers also to the operations of Japanese Sta-
tion JZK, 15l60 kilocycles. He asks us to notify the Secre-
20
tary of the Federal Communications Commission and have the
F.C.C. monitor the Japanese stations. Mr. Nicholas offers
6
to send Japanese broadcasting schedules if desired.
Ordinarily I should say that this "red ink" letter
would require no acknowledgment. However, it is apparent-
A
ly written in good faith by an American farmer who has in-
terested himself in these matters. He has not heretofore
bothered the Department with numerous letters, as so many
have done, and it seems to me that his interest may merit
this noncommittal acknowledgment in the present instance.
IN:HBOtterman:LM

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
Plain
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL GODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
Full rate
Washington,
Day letter
Night letter
Charge to
October 16, 1939.
VIA NAVAL RADIO
AMERICAN CONSUL,
SHANGHAI (CHINA).
400TEENTH
For Commercial Attache from Commerce:
29. Press reports say Japanese broadcasting stations
894.74/21
blanketing General Electric Treasure Island Oriental pro-
grams. Telegraph any facts available.
10
844.74
A-M/C:EBG
Note: Based on telephone request 4:15 p.m. Oct. 16, 1939,
from Bur. For. & Dom. Commerce.
F/FG
M..
19
1-1408
NT PRINTIBG OFFICE

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
LIAISON OFFICER
16
ACT1939
REQUEST FOR TRANSMITTAL OF CABLEGRAM OR RADIOGRAL
FORWARDED
Ootober 16, 1939
Date:
29a
Bureau Reference:
Charge to:
Bureau of Foreign and Domestio Commeroe
TO THE LIAISON OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
.) to the
Please send the following message (our Serial No.
894.74/210
Commeraial Attache at Shanghai via Navy Radiogram
Gurth.
Gaorta lythe
Liaison Officer.
29
PRESS REPORTS SAY JAPANESE BROADCASTING STATIONS BLANKETING GENERAL
ELECTRIC TREASURE ISLAND ORIENTAL PROGRAMS TELEGRAPH ANY FACTS AVAILABLE
139
10116
JHPayno/kfh
F/FG
Approved:
Foreign Service Divisien
Assistant Director

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.93)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
PLAIN
1—1336
Shanghai via N. R.
FROM
E
Dated October 18, 1939
DIVISION OF
REc'd 2:10 p.m.
Igmis. to Shangheir
NTERNATION
OCT 20 1939
Hongkong drfts.
Washington.
918, 0ctober 18, 4 p.m.
ATPACPE COHLERCE.
C.A
"13. Catober 19, 11 a.m.
Yctr to0. Coratncing October irst JapanEsE station
styling itsElt ns JZI and JZK Polyo Japan frEquEnciEs 9530
and 9535 kilocycles from Eight thirty p. . Shanghai timE
onwards to ninE r. m. and somEtimes latEr complEtEly blotted
out KGEI TrEasurE Islund station. AmErican tEchnical wirE-
lEss men at Shanghai from October first havE systematically
madE nightly check TrEasurE Island rEcEption using modern
2
sElectivE rEcEivers communications typEs such as Hallicraft
Er, Sky Champion, HamErlund HQ 125, National HRO as wEll as
latest models ZEnith, Philco, RCA and GEC shortwavE broad-
CC
cast receivers, using Efficient doublet antenna pr6per
2
dirEctEd to rEcEivE from Pacific coast. Summary ofdai
rEports madE by this group shows that JZI completE
blottEd out KGEI TreasurE Island station from October
F/FG
first to fourth inclusivE, slackened ctober fifth to
ninth probably Either to slight changE frEquency or shift
in

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
2-No. 918, Octobεr 18, 4 p.m. from Shanghai
in antenna. On October tenth JapanEsE station disappEarEd
but rEsuming transmission on October thirtEenth complEtEly
obliterated TreasurE Island. InterfErencE from ZBW Hong
Kong has also bEen vEry bad bEtwEen hours Eight and tEn
p. m. Shanghai timE from October fourth to thirteenth
inclusivE. Hong Kong intErfErEncE hEaviEr than at any
timE sincE TrEasurE Island bEgan broadcasting.
(SECTION TWO FOLLOWS.) Arnold."
WWC:HTM
GAUSS

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DIVISION OF
FROM
INTERNATIONA UU
OGJ 211939
PLAIN
39.
Shanghai via N. R.
Eilersso
Qotlical
DatEd October 20, 1939
REc'd 7:30 a.m.
SEcretary of StatE,
A7
Washington.
OF STATE
920, October 20, 1 pom.
ATTACHE COMTERCE.
"124, October 20, 9 a.m.
Your 29. Our 123. After 1most a month of daily
observations on recEption from TrEasurE Island, Shanghai
American Technical ComnitteE states it is convinced that
satisfactory reception from KGEI will nEver bE possiblE
so long as Hong Kong ZB!" and JapanEsE stations JZI remain
on thEir prEsEnt frEquEnciEs. ThE CommittEE rEcommEnds
that urgent rEprEsEntations bE madE through appropriatE
channels to thE two governments concerned. End. Signed
894.74/212
Arnold."
心
1939
GAUSS
DDM
FF
G

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.92)
2tc
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
mota
PLAIN
NOV
Shanghai via N. R.
wio
FROM
ENT OF ST
DatEd NovEmber 2, 1939
REc'd 10:10 a.m.
Secretary of StatE,
See a-m/c tolegram
Vashington.
to Shanghir Novt 3 /59.
966, NovEmbEr 2, 4 p.m.
ATTACHE COMMERCE.
"144, NovEmbEr 2, 2:30 p.m.
REfErring your 29 and our 123 and 124. InterfErencE
continues badly. PlEnsE radio what Efforts bEing madE
through FEderal Communications Commission or other official
channels to havE interfErencE EliminatEd. End. SignEd
Arnold."
GAUSS
KLP:DDM
894.74/213
F/FG

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.95)
Plain
 OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TO
ATE WHETHER
CONVIDENTIAL OODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Departmentof State
artment:
Washington.
Full rate
Day letter
1939  3 4 30
Night letter
Charge to
November 3, 1939.
VIA NAVAL RADIO
nR
Vd
AMERICAN CONSUL,
SHANGHAI (CHINA).
-1205
THIED
35 your 144. See State telegram 419 October 34
to Gauss. Representations made in Tokyo October 25 will
be closely followed. No results reported yet.
894.74/213
A-M/C:EBG
Note: Based on telephone request 3:55 p.m. Nov. 3, 1939,
from Bur. For. & Dom. Commerce.
1-1600

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
CHAIRMAN
T. J. BLOWIE, SECRETARY
FEDERAICOMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
THILTOF
WASHINGTON. D. C.
NEN
HENRY PAYNE
1939
501
RICK I. THOMPSON
1939 NOV 8 AM 9 58
NUV
139.
AD H. BROWN
OF
C01
ONS
The HonoreORDS
Foler
The Secretary of State.
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of October 28, 1939,
File No. IN 894.74/203, reletive to interference occesioned to
Station KJY when operating on 17440 kc caused by Japanese station
894.74/214
JDK operating on 8720 kc.
The Commission has recuested its Inspector &t Honolulu to
ascertein if possible the comparative receiving strength at that
point of emissions from Station KJY and the second harmonic of
Station JDK.
The Press Wireless, Inc. reports that their monitoring at
Manil& on the frecuency 17440 kc shows an average field strength
from KJY as 15 decibels above one microvolt per meter, and that
the field strength of the second harmonic of JDK varies on the
average between 5 and 10 decibels above 1 microvolt per meter.
Sincerely yours,
Cheirman.
F/FG
1

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.97)
Noven!181989
My dear Mr. Fly:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of
November 7, 1939 in regard to the relative strength
at Manila of transmissions from United States radio
station KJY and Japanese radio station JDK.
894.74/21
The substance of your letter is being transmitted
to the American Embassy at Tokyo with the request that
these data be brought to the attention of the appro-
priate Japanese authorities with an urgent request for
4
the elimination of the interferenoe under disoussion.
This Department will be glad to receive any
further data whieh may become available as a result of
the sontinued efforts to monitor the strength of the
transmissions from the respeotive stations.
Sincerely yours,
A
For the Seoretary of State:
The
Honorable
G. B. Messersmith
Assistant Seeretary
James Lawrenee Fly, Chairman,
Federal Communications Commission.
INUBOLIIS
11-10-20 7223

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
Jral
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSWITTED
CONFIDENTIAL GODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washington,
13
November 10, 1939
7j M
AMEMBASSY
TOKYO (JAPAN)
348
Your'548, October 24.
Press wireless reports that its monitoring at Manila
on frequency 17440 kilocycles shows average field strength
from radio station KJY as 15 decibels above one microvolt
894.74/214
per meter and that field strength of second harmonic of
attention of appropriate Japanese authorities with urgent
request for elimination of interference with reception at
Manila of transmissions from United States station KJY.
Nuce
N0V 13 1939
(rom)
R
FA
894.74/214
IN:HBO:IIS
FE
11-10-39
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M.,
19
D. C. R.—No. 00
1-1462
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE BECRETARY
CE FLY, CHAIRMAN
LKER
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
. CASE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
.CRAVEN
WASHINGTON,D.
1.
RTMENT
DIVIS
RGE HENRY PAYNE
ITE
REDERICK I. THOMPSON
NOV 7 1939
THAD H. BROWN
1939 NOV AM 19
N1.1
JIVISKCN OF
The Honorable
JMMUL
AND uDS
B aur difto ho 10g
The Secretary of State.
File ha
844.74
My dear Mr. Secretary:
This is in further reference to the Conmission's letter of
894.74/215
October 30, 1939, relative to interference suffered by General
Electric international broadcsst station KGEI, Treasure Island,
operating on 9530 kc caused by Ja anese Station JZI, Tokyo.
Further reports have been received from the Commission's
monitoring station at Portland, Oregon to the effect that at that
point Station JZI is received with a signal strength equal to, or
greater than that of KGEI, and that when both stations are in
operation, a serious heterodyne is present between the two.
On October 16, 1939, at 13:25 G.M.T. Station JZI was measured
as operating on 9533.340 kc, ana n Cctober 17, 173, at 06:26
G.M.T. it was operating on 9534.065 kc. On October 18, 1939, at
12:40 G.M.T., this st: tion as operating on 9533.095 kc, and ag in
at 12:55 G.M.T. on 9533.065 kc.
The above measurements indicate that not only is Station JZI
interfering with the transmissions of a station operating on a
frequency enjoying priority over the registration of the Japanese
station, but it is operating consistently lower than its assigned
frequency with a deviation in excess of the tolerance permitted by
the International Radio Regulations, thus causing a strong
3-kilocycle heterodyne between that station and Station KGEI.
Your cooperation in eliminating this objectionable interference
will be apprecieted.
A
Sincerely yours,
Chairman.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
Nove nb:131939
My dear Mr. Fly:
I aoknowledge the receipt of your letter of Novem-
ber 7, 1930 in regard to the interferenoe by a Japanese
broadoasting station with transmissions of United States
station KGEI.
894.74/2
As has already been indioated in response to a
telephone inquiry from a representative of your Commis-
sion and in conneotion with your letter of Ootober 30,
1939 on this subject, a telegram dated Ootober 18, 1939
was ment to the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo outlining the
details of the interference under disoussion and urging
that steps be taken by the appropriate Japanese author-
1ties for the elimination of that interference. No reply
has yet been received from the Embassy but the matter is
being carefully observed by this Department and continued
A
efforts
The Honorable
James Lawrenee Fly, Chairman,
Federal Communications Commission.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.91)
offorts will be made to effeot its satisfactory oonolusion.
In view of your letter of November 7, 1939 a further
telegram is being sent to the Embassy at Tokyo outlining
the variation from its assigned frequeney of Japanese sta-
tion JZI and urging prompt consideration of this matter by
the appropriate offiolals of the Japanese Government.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
G. S. Messeremith
Assistant Seoretary
NOR
131939PM
101M001112
11-10-20
S
FE

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
TO BE TRANSMITTED
ATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONGONFIDENTIAL CODE
rtment
Department of State
PARTAIR
OR
13
PLAIN
Washington,
19
449
November 10, 1939
AMEMBASSY
PM
TOKYO (JAPAN)
1 Go.
3471
BN
Department's/3176 October 18.
Federal Communications Commissyon/s/monitoring
89
Stat1on/hh/was/ measured/as /operating (on/9533.340/k11o-
4
eyoles/ on/October 17, at 96/26/G.M.T/ 1t was/operating/
on
934/065/k1locyclea./on/October 18, at/12:/40/q/ M/T.
1t
was operating on/9533/995/k1locycles,/and/at 12/55/G.M.T.
5
on 9533.065/kilocydles.
Please bring/these measuremente to attention of/
appropriate/Japanese authorities/and/remidd/them that/JZI
1s/opprating/consistently loyer than/1ts/assigned/frequenoy
with ldeviation/in excess of/tolerance permitted byInter-
strorg
national/RadidRegulations/This/causes3/kilocycle/
Noo
hetergayne/between/JZI/and/KGEI.
Request prompt considera-
tion/by/Japanese/authorities/and telegraph resultspof your
FA
representations.
Hule
(am)
OR
LAN:HBO:IIS NOV
151939PM
FE
11-10-39
Enciphared by
Sent by operator
M..
19.
D. C. R.-Ne. 00
1-1463

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.93)
2622
AMERICAN CONSULATE GENERAL,
Shanghai, China, October 20, 1939.
P
31
P
3
1:
VA
PM
15
SUBJECT: Alleged Jepanese Interference with
19
Broadcasts from Station KGEI.
THE HONORABLE
THE SECRETARY OF STATE,
894.74/216
WASHINGTON.
SIR:
I have the honor to refer to this office's tele-
gram No. 897, of October 6, 1939, to the Department,
on the subject of interference on the part of Japanese
stations with broadcasts from station KGEI.
The following enclosures are forwarded in con-
firmation of the above telegram:
1. Copy of a letter from Miss A. Viola Smith,
Trade Commissioner, Shanghai, to this Consulate
General, dated October 4, 1939.
2. Copy of a news article appearing in THE
CHINA PRESS (American incorporated, Chinese
owned) on October 4, 1939.
3. Copy of a news article appcaring in THE
SHANGHAI TIMES (British) on October 5, 1939.
F/FG
Under date of October 7, 1939, copies of the
following reports and letters on the above subject
were
11
1-1904
●s●

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
were forwarded by the Commercial Attache's office
in a memorandum to the Electrical Division, Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, Washington:
October 3, 1939 Report of A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 4, 1939
Report of A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 4, 1939
Letter from Herbert E. Moy,
Business Manager, Station
XMHA of Shanghai, to Miss
A. Viola Smith.
October 4, 1939
Letter from Miss P. A. Blyth
to Miss A. Viola Smith.
October 5, 1939
Report of A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 5, 1939
Letter from R. M. Joseph to
Miss A. Viola Smith.
October 0, 1939
Report of A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
Under date of October 13, 1939, the following addi-
tional letters on the same subject were also forwarded
by the Commercial Attache's office:
October 3, 1939 Letter from H. R. Benjamin,
American Baptist Foreign
Mission Society, Ningpo,
to Miss A. Viola Smith.
October 4, 1939
Letter from Kepler Van Evera,
Americen Presbyterian Mission,
Hangchow, to Miss A. Viola
Smith.
October 5, 1939
Letter from R. J. Joseph,
Shanghai, to Miss A. Viola
Smith.
October 5, 1939
Letter from Clara Bell Smith,
to Miss A. Viola Smith.
October 6, 1939
Letter from A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 7, 1939
Letter from A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
October 8, 1939 Letter from A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 9, 1939
Letter from R. M. Joseph to
Miss A. Viola Smith.
October 9, 1939 Letter from A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 11, 1939 Letter from A. R. Lusey to
J. B. Powell.
October 14, 1939 Letter from J. B. Powell to
S. M. Yu, San Peh Steam
Navigation Co. (This will be
forwarded by the Commercial
Attache's office in the next
mail.)
Any further significant information having reference
to interference with broaacasts from station KGEI will be
forwarded as received.
Rospectfully yours,
C. E. Gauss
American Consul General
Enclosures:
1/- Copy of a letter from Miss A. Viola Smith,
Trade Commissioner, Shanghai, to Consul
General C. E. Gauss, dated October 4,
1939.
2/- Copy of a news article appearing in THE CHINA
PRESS on October 4, 1939.
3/- Copy of a news article appearing in THE
SHANGHAI TIMES on October 5, 1939.
870
CAR/Sfk
In quintuplicate to the Department;
Copy to Embassy, Peiping;
Copy to Embassy, Chungking;
Copy to Commercial Attache, Shanghai.

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
closure No. 1 to despatch No.26 of C. E. Gauss,
American Consul General at Shanghai, China, dated October
20, 1939, on the subject: "Alleged Japanese Interference
with Broadcasts from Station KGEI."
C O P Y.
United tates Department of Commerce
Burecu of Foreign nd Domestic Comnerce
Shanghai
Ofrice of Commercial Atlache
51 Canton Road
Shanghei, China.
October 4, 1939
C. E. Gauss, Esquire,
American Consul General,
Shanghai.
"Interference with Treasure Islend Reception"
Dear Mr. Gauss:
Reference is mede to your communicetion of September
2, through Consul Horace H. Smith, File No. 870, rel tive
to information which the Embessy hed been seeking regarding
alleged interference with reception from Treasure Island
Broadcasting station.
The following inrormation has now come to my attention:
On October 3, Mr. J. B. Powell teleononed me stating
that he was Chairman of the Treasure Islna Interference
Committee, which has been formea to make technical cneck ups upon
alleged interference of reception Irom GEI (formerly 6ABE).
The committee also included:
N.D.Brown, Globe Wireless Company
S. Marco, Bentley's Limited
A. R. Lusey, Press Wireless
R.T.Bellaire, United Press
It felt that with three technical people on the committee
that it would be in a good position to check the interfer nce.
A. R. Lusey of the Press Wireless, reported that on
October 2, 1939, there was definite Japenese interference
as follows:
"At 8:35 p.m., while reception of Treasure Island
was excellent, a strong carrier suddenly appeered
on KGEI. By carrier, I mean a transmitter radiat-
ing on the air without being modulated - that is
no one was talking.
After five minutes (apparent-
ly warming up the transmitter) announcements in
English began. The station identified itself as
"JZJ/JZK" - apparently two Japanese transmitters
on different frequencies. The announcements were
news items - entirely Japanese propaganda. The
station was still on at 9 o'clock." (Report of
A. R. Lusey)"
Mr. Powell asked whether I had heard the interference,
or whether any reports had been made to me thereof, to
which I replied in the negative. He inquired whether
reports

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
reports from technical people would be of use and whether
I thought we could do something through ofriciul channels.
I stated that checking by technicul people was very essential,
and that if sufficient detailed reports were made that such
information would be extremely helpful in making whatever
official representstions might seem practical.
On the evening of October 3, I listen4 at aifferent
times, and record hereunder my personal experience.
"Using a l940, 7 tube General Electric Receiving
Set located in Hamilton House: 8:15 p.m. Treasure
Island was strong and cler with a musical program
of Hawaiian numbers. At 8:30 p.m. just as the
announcer started to give the news broadcast, there
cut in over the air a voice speaking in Japanese
for some moments. Then a voice speaking in English
(but with an accent such as to lead one to feel that
It was a Japanese speaking)came in strongly and made
the definite announcement that "This is JZJ, Tokyo,
broadcasting on a frequency of 9,530 kilocycles".
(This is the identical frequency of Treasure Island).
The English speaking voice calling itself JZJ, Tokyo,
continued for some 20 minutes, to give news of Japanese
activities in China, and some events in Tokyo, most of
which were accredited to the Domei news agency.
Throughout the full z0 minutes, JZJ completely over-
powered the announcer and news broadcast from Treasure
Island, KGEI, and ruined the merican broadcast.
At 9:3o p.m. I listened ag-in for some time but heard
nothing from Japan. At 10: 30 p.m. I tuned into KGEI
and got their news broadcst at that time clearly and
with good volume, and without any Japunese interference.
From the above I conclude that JJ, Tokyo, has for the
present contented itself with an attempt to blot out
only the 8:30 p.m. News Broadcest from "Treesure Islnd."
(Report of A. Viola Smith)
The China Press, of October 4, 1939, carries on page 2,
a story of reported Japanese interference in which both
Consul General Gauss' name and that of myself is mentioned.
I desire to state that I gave no such interview and sent
no such telegram as stated in this article.
In view of the Embassy's telegraphic request of August
15, 1939, in which our cooperation, was also sought, you
may desire to wire the Embassy direct the details given
above of definite Japanese interference.
Early in the year the Electrical Division of the Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce notified this office that
it had been requested by the Manager of the Broadcasting
Division of the General Electric Company to secure as much
information as possible from the field regarding reception
of Treasure Island. We have throughout this year period-
ically sent in numerous messages regarding reception. It
would be oustomary for the Commercial Attache's office to
send in a radio report to the Electrical Division at this
time, and we shall do so unless for any reason the Consulate
may

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
may deem it undesirable.
Very truly yours,
(Signed). I. Viola Smitn
Trade Commissioner.
AVS:MD
Copied by:
Compared with:

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.97)
Tosure No. 2 to despatch No. of C. E. Gauss,
erican Consul General at Shanghai, China, dated October
20, 1939, on the subject: "Alleged Japanese Interference
with Broadcasts from Station KGEI."
C O P Y.
CHIN.. PRESS
Shanghei, 0ctober 4, 1939.
LOCAL AMERICANS ASK PROBE OF LLEGED EST COAST BROADC ST
JAM BY JAP.NESE
Attention of Gauss Drawn to Situation.
Nippon Stations Seid Interfering With Treasure Island
RECEPTION FROM U. S. BLANKETED
Radio News F-ns Make Complaint bout Non-Reception.
A new Japanese redio st tion broadcasting news in
English has completely blanketed American news broadcests
from Treasure Island, San Francisco, the past two nights,
radio quarters reported here today.
The Japanese station giving the c:1l letters JZK and
JZJ, begins broadcasting simult neously with the beginning
of the American news broadcasts to the Orient. The Japanese
station is on the same frequency  s th-t hela legally by
the American Generel Electric station in Sen Francisco
and makes reception of the merican news bro dc sts im-
possible in Shanghai.
The station also interferes vith reception of London
news broodcosts via Hongkong.
The attention of the Americun Consul-Generel in
Shan hai is being c lled to the Jap nese station by a
committee of Shanghai Americans interested in the reception
of American news broadcasts from san rancisco.
Shangnai .mericans interested in the reception of
the news from San Franeisce imreci tely filed a complaint
with Miss Viola Smith, U.. Trade Commissioner, who late
yesterday sent a detailed orficial report to Mashint ton
calling the attention of authorities concerned to the facts
of the case.
MANIL. COMPL INS
(United Press)
Manila, Oct. 3. - Manila radio listeners today complained
they were unable to hear broadcasts from Treasure Island
in San Francisco last night bec use of the interference
from a Japanese station on the fre uency between San
Frencisco and Hongkong.
Listeners said tengo music on the Japnese station
drowned out portions of the San Francisco program to-
night. It was noted that to a lesser degree the Japanese
station was interfering with the New Delhi and Chungking
broadoasts tonight.
Copied by:

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
nclosure No. 3 to despatch No. 2622 of C. E. Gauss,
American Consul General at Shanghai, China, uated Cctober
20, 1939, on the subject: "Alleged Japanese Interference
with Broadcasts from Station KGEI."
From THE SHANGiAI TIsS, datec Cctober 5, 1939.
JAPANESE DENY TIT RFERENCL WTTH PR: ISLAND
uestion Of News broadcasts To East By ropular
San Francisco Station Raised At Press Conference;
Wavelengths Subject of resent Arrument here
The Japanese spokesman at the preos conference
yesterday answered a report in a local newspaper,
which alleged that a new Jananese radio station,
using the call letters J2: and J'J, wes broadcasting
news in English ana completely blanketin the American
news broadcasts fro. Treasure Island, San Francisco.
He first pointed out the t the manese stotions
were not on the stme wavelen tn : the Treasure Island
station as the newspaper stated, ane seconcly thet Jzk
and JZJ were two stetions and no one, and were not
new either.
Redio station J, he saio, tronsmitted on a
wavelength of 15,160 kilocycls, nd J on 11,800
kilocycles. moreover, these two st tions nad been
operating since 1936 or eerlier on re ul:r sehecules
to the U. S., awaii, chin une tne thilinrine Islands.
There was a1so st tion J2I on a wavebene of 9,535
kilocycles, which althou not mer.tioncd by the
newsnaner, was much nearer the wavelength of Treesure
Island Station on 9,53c kilocycles. Phe spokesman said
that JZI started prograrmes on Cetoter 1, but was not
a new station.
International grcement
The spokesman pointea out thet there was un
international agreement allocating difrerent wave-
lengths to each country. The Japenese Government had
made such an agreement and had obtainea certain wave-
lengths on which Japanese radio stations broadcast.
Treasure Island was a newer station than any of the
three Japanese stations, and if Treasure Island happened
to have a similar wavelength it was up to that station
to change ana not ask the Japanese to move. Besides,
he added, perhaps there was no new frecuency available
to which the Japanese station coula move.
Asked if the Japanese authorities intended tien to
take no steps to remedy this situation for the benerit
of local Americans and others who listened to the
Treasure Island broadcasts, the spokesman replied that
it was up to the Americans either to change the wavelength
of the San Francisco station or to approach the Japanese
authorities on the cuestion. Neither step had as yet
been taken.
Copied by:
Compared with:

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.95)
AND OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
OATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
PARTAIR
letter
PLAIN
@partmont:
Ful rate
Washingion.
Day letter
9
Night letter
241 58
December, 1939
Charge to
2p.m.
S
am
RIOAN EMBASSY,
TOKYO (JAPAN).
393
Please endeavor to expedite Japanese reply to
Department's telegramé 317 and 347, October 18 and
894.74/216
November 13, 1939 in regard to Japanese interference
with/United States /broadcasting/station/xGEI,/San
Francisco.
Hull
(rm)
894.74/216
F/FG
FE
DEC
76.58
Enciphered by
Sent by operator
M..
19
1-1462

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4203
Tokyo, November 2, 1939
SUBJECT:
INTERFERENCE BY JAPANESE RADIO STATION
WITH RECEPTION OF BROADCASTS FROM AMERICAN
RADIO STATION KGEI.
994.74
8
SPAENT   AT
1939 N   2 35
C
894.74/217
Leu
The Honorable
DEPARTMENT OFTATE
The Secretary of State
Washington
Sir:
Supplementing the Embassy's telegram no. 552,
October 25, 1 p.m., I have the honor to transmit herewith
1/
a copy of a memorandum which was presented to the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs on October 25, 1939, concerning inter-
A
ference by Japanese radio station JZI with the reception
of broadoasts from American radio station KGEI, and re
9
questing the cooperation of the Japanese Government in
solving this problem.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosure:
as stated
874
Joseph C. Grew
FAS:mg
Original and copies to the Department
Copy to Embassy, Chungking
Copy to Embassy, Peiping
Copy to Consulate General,Shanghai

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure no. 1 to despatch
no. 4203
dated Novmmber 2,1939
From the Embassy at Tokyo
The American Embassy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
MEMORANDUM
The American Government has received numerous
complaints from American residents in the Far East of
interference from what appears to be Japanese station
JZI encountered in the reception of broadcasts from the
American radio station KGEI, owned and operated by the
General Electrio Company and located on Treasure Island,
San Francisco. It seems that the width of the carrier
wave emanating from station JZI is so broad that it
frequently prevents reception from station KGEI operating
on a nearby frequency.
Station KGEI, formerly W6XBE, operates on frequencies
of 9530 and 15,330 kilocycles. Registration was accorded
the United States for the frequency of 9530 kilocycles
by the Bureau of the International Telecommunication Union
at Bern on March 6, 1930, and for station W6XBE, now KGEI,
on December 15, 1938. American registration with the same
Bureau for the 15,330 kilocycle band was effected on
March 3, 1932, and registration of station W6XBE for this
band, on December 15, 1938. Japanese station JZI operates
on a frequency of 9535 kilocycles. The date of registry
for this frequency with the Bern Bureau is July 15, 1936,
and the station registration was made under the same date.
It will be observed that the American registration of the
9530 kilooycle band with the Bern Bureau was effected
long prior to that of the Japanese registration of the
9535 kilooyole band, the American registration dating
from Maroh 6, 1930, as compared with the Japanese
registration

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
registration of July 15, 1936. Moreover, according to
reports reaching the United States, Japanese station JZI
did not commence broadcasting on the frequency of 9535
kilocycles until October 1, l939, which was considerably
later than the initial broadcasts of station KGEI on the
frequency of 9530 kilocycles. It may also be mentioned
that under the terms of the Washington International
Radio Convention signed in l927 the registration of KGEI
would have priority over that of JZI, its registration
dating back to that made for its predecessor station
W6XBE on March 6, 1930.
Station KGEI is the only American broadcasting
station audible to American nationals in the Far East,
and the inconvenience and annoyance caused when programs
cannot be heard will be readily understandable. As the
interference which appears to have been caused by
station JZI occurs only at intervals it would seem that
appropriate use of the frequency of 9535 kilocyoles might
be made by station JzI without interfering with the
reception of station KGEI operating on frequency of
9530 kilocycles. The American Government would greatly
appreciate the cooperation of the Japanese Government
in arriving at a satisfactory solution of this problem.
Tokyo, Ootober 23, 1939.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.95)
REOEIVED
L
CF0 1939
Division of
FBASTERN AFFAS
152
Department of State
deu
153
October 24, 1939.
15
195a
914.74
Dear Mr. Hamilton:
December 1 1939
SCR
With reference to your letter of Septem-
ber 20, addressed to me in cere of the Unised
feoarvery
Stetes Despatch Agent, San rancisco, an to
brief telks which I hed with you in the Depart-
ment, I wish to tell you that I have todey brought
orelly to the attentlon of Mr. Williams, the
Commercial Attache, the ettitude of the Depirtment
to the letter vhich Mrs. illiams eddressed on
April 1 last to Frdio Stetion W6 BE, and especially
to certrin portions of that letter which are
218
considered highly indiscreet. I also made cleer
to Mr. Williams that Mrs. Williems should under
no circumstences write to the redio station in
question in regard to this matter. I said that
I would have preferred to teke this matter up
directly with Mrs. Williems, but thet in view of
Mexwell M. Hamilton, Fsquire,
Department of State,
Weshington, D.'C.

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
the fact that the matter had come to the at-
tention of our official authorities I felt
obliged, while registering my own emphatio
disepprovel of Mrs. Williams' procedure in this
cose, to ceution him officially against any
repetitlon of such an indiscreet communicetion
es Mrs. Williems had sent to the redio stotion
on Treasure Islend.
Sincerely yours,

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.93)
November 30, 1939.
Dear Mr. Grew:
I aoknowledge receipt of your letter of
Ootober s4 in whioh you are so good as to tell
us that you have brought orally to the attention
of Hr. Williems, the Commercial Attaché, the
894.74/218
attitude of the Department toward the letter
whieh Mrs. Williams addressed on April 1 to
Radio Station woxBE.
Sinoerely yours,
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
tme copy of
American Ambassador,
igned oriz
Tokyo, Japan.
A
DEC 1 193& PM
A-m bo
FE:MH:REK

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.94)
1N
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
RECEAFETHE
UNITED STATES OFAAMERICA
1930 00 11 PM 3 25
AMERICAN EMBASSY
No. 4245
Tokyo, November 20, 1939
SUBJECT:
INTERFERENCE BY JAPANESE RADIO STATION
WITH RECEPTION OF BROADCASTS FROM AME ICAN
RADIO STATION KGEI.
SF
894.74/
01950
2
6
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FA
Sir:
With reference to the Department's telegram
no. 347, November 13, 6 p.m., 1939, and the Embassy's
217
despatch no. 4203, November 2, 1939, regarding inter-
ference by Japanese radio station JZI with the re-
ception of broadcasts from American radio station
KGEI
6

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
1/
KGEI, I have the honor to transmit herewith a copy
of a memorandum presented to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs on November 15, 1939, setting forth further
data on Japanese interference and expressing the
hope that immediate steps would be taken to eliminate
this interference.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ as stated.
874
ESC:hjs
Original and 3 copies to the Department.
Copy to Embassy Chungking and Peiping.
Copy to Consulate General, Shanghai.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 4245 dated November 20, 1939,
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
The American Embassy to the Japanese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs.
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
MEMORANDUM
Supplementing its memorandum of October 23, 1939,
the American Embassy is now informed that the monitoring
station of the Federal Conmunications Commission of the
United States Government reports that on October 16, 1939,
at 13:25 G.m.T. Japanese station JZI was measured as op-
erating on 9533.340 kilocycles; on 0ctober 17 at 06:26
G.M.T., on 9534.065 kilocycles; on Cctober 18 at 12:40
G.M.T. on 9533.095 kilocycles; and on the same day at
12:55 G.M.T., on 9533.065 kilocycles.
It would appear from the foregoing that Japanese
station JZI is operating on considerably lower than its
assigned frequency of 9535 kilocycles with deviation in
excess of tolerance permitted by international radio regu-
lations, causing a strong 3-cycle heterodyne between
Japanese station JZI and American station KGEI.
The American Government would appreciate immediate
steps being taken to ensure the operation by Japanese
station JZI upon its assigned frequency of 9535 kilocycles.
Tokyo, November 15, 1939.

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
HSM
Tokyo
This tElegram must bE
closely paraphrased
FROM Dated DEcEmbEr 16, 1939
bEforE bEing communi-
cated to anyonE. (Br.)
REc'd 12:42 a. m.
Divislon ef
calll
A
PAR HASIEH AFAIRS
SecrEtary of State,
10193
Washington.
rtment ut Sta
683, DEcEmbEr 16, noon.
2/6
894.74/220
99-1.74
DEartmEnt's 393, DEcEmbEr 9, 2 p. m., radio
interference.
WE arE continuing to press for an answEr and hopE
to havE a rEply in thE nEar futurE.
GREW
RR
F
DUCNTIONG
HNE
DEd1039
F
FG

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
EPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
Mr Otterman
Further action needed apparently.
FaeWolf
12-27-39

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.95)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
LA
ENCE FLY, CHAIRMAN
ALKER
T. J. SLOWIE. SECRETARY
AN S. CASE
FEDÉRAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
.M. CRAVEN
WASHINGTON, D. C.
GEORGE HENRY PAYNE
FREDERICK I. THOMPSON
 DEC 2 11
THAD H. BROWN
DEC 22 1939
an.3/yo.
File
Note: Mr. Kiling ofs
The Honorable
Pcc shoned ts sayd that
The Secrotary of State. lettet from Presd Wire kess
ripotte minterperence as
894.74/221
My dear Mr. Secretary:
risafy eared's ietey rom not
Referring to previous correspondence and particularly
to your letter of November 13, 1939, F11e IN 894.74/214,
relative to interference caused to reception of transmis-
sions from Station KJY, operating on 17440 kc caused by the
second harmonic of Station JDK operating on 8720 kc, there
is attached hereto for your information and any action you
may deem desirable a copy of a letter dated December 12,
1939 from Press Wireless, Inc. in regard to this matter.
Sincerely yours,
Chairman
Enclosure
FD
F/FG

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
PRESS WIRELESS, INC.
1475 Broadway
Corner 42nd St.
New York City
December 12, 1939
In Reply Please
Refer To: 1068
Foderal Communicstions Commission,
Washington, D. C.
Gentlemen:
Reference is made to the interference created by station JDK,
8720 kc, Dairen, Japan, with the transmissions of ststion KJY,
17440 kc, Dely City, Californie. This interference is the result
of the needless and inexcusable radiation of a second harmonic by
station JDk, and has been made the subject of previous extensive
correspondence with the Comnission.
Our purpose in writing is to advise the Commission that this
interference continues unabated. St&tion JDK continues to
interfere with stetion KJY throughout the Fer Esst, es evidenced by
recent reports from our stetions st Manila, P.I., and Shenghai,
China.
Recent reports received from our Msnila station note repeated
instances of this interference hich, εt tnat point, is always
troublesome and sometimes serious.
The interference created et Shenghai is even more serious than
that at Manila. Our Shanghai station recently reported by service
BOSBOGO: "JDK CAUSING MOST SERIOUS INTERFERENCE DAILY STOP HAS BEEN
NO IMPROVEMENT, NO CHANGE IN SECOND HARMONIC INTERFERENCE". Again,
a dispatch from Shanghai dated November 24, states that the inter-
ference now created is the worst ever experienced.
The interference which is caused by second harmonic radiation
from station JDk, as such can neither be justified, nor even excused.
It is a violation of Appendix 2 to the General Radio Regulations
(Revision of Cairo, 1938) Annexed to the International Telecommunica-
tions Convention (Madrid, l932) and appears to indicate an attitude
of indifference towards the provisions of Article 6 81 end 2(1)
of the above entitled Regulations.

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
 Bovember 25th, 1939 we transmitted a message to the
Jepemsse authorities pointing out the interference being created
 the sesond harmonic radiation of JDK, and said message was
astmowledged, but apparently no remedy was, or has been, effected.
Will the Commission please advise us whether any further
cemmmications on this subject have been received from the
Japanese Authorities, and what steps may be taken to afford relief?
Yours very truly,
PRESE WIRELESS, Inc.
D. K. de Neuf,
Supt. of Operations.
KDK: em

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.93)
HNG OFFICE
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
DICATE WHETHER
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department
Department of State
PARTAIR
OR
PLAIN
Washington,
January 3, 1940
AMMBASSY,
TOKYO.
7029
Department's 548, October 24, 1939.
Interference by Japanese radio station JDK with trans-
missions of United States station KJY continues unabated
throughout the Far East. It 1s serious at Manila and par-
beomotuee
ticularly so at Shanghai. Interferenoe, due to second har
atis refer
ence ih
monic radiation Prom JBK, 1s v1olation of appendix 2 of atuere
sentations.
General Radio Regulations, Cairo, 1938, and Article 6 of
HOS
those Regulations, to whioh Japan and United States are
parties. Bring to atteation appropriate Japanese author-
ities and urge immediate aotion to eliminate this inter-
ference. Continue to press for prompt and favorable ac-
tion and keep Department fully informed of results.
894.74/221
IN:HBO:LM
FE
NB
bered by
operator
M..
19.
C. R.—Ne. 
1-1463
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
Y OF STATE
STON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In replx refer to
tile
IN 894.74/221
My dear Mr. Fly:
I acknowledge the receipt of your letter of December
22, 1939, in regard to the continued 1nterference by Jap-
anese Radio Station JDK with transmissions from United
States Station KJY.
The information contained in your letter and its en-
closure, a communisation from Press Wireless, Inc., 1s
being brought by telagraph to the attention of the Amer-
ican Embassy at Tokyo with the request that the appropriate
Japanese authorities be arged to take immediate action with
a view to the elimination of this interference. The Embas-
sy is being asked to continue to press for prompt and
favorable action and to keep the Department fully informed
of its efforts.
Sincerely yours,
For the Secretary of State:
George S. Messersmith,
Assistant Seoretary
The Honorable
James Lawrence Fly, Chairman,
The Federal Communications Commission.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
on
(For the Division of Ietornational
Communica
/40
DEPARTWENT Hg
Batavia, Java,
December 21, 1939.
44.741
E. S. Darlington, Esquire,
B
Manager, Short-Wave Broadoasting,
General Eleotrio Company,
1 River Road,
Scheneotady, New York,
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. Darlington:-
Many thanks for your letter of Cotober 25, 1939,
in whioh you informed me of the difficulties involved
in any attempt to furnish this Consulate General with
copies of your KGEI programs sufficiently in advance
to be of use to listeners in Java.
Frankly, I do not believe that the availability
of KGEI programs matters greatly. It would be well if
they could be received in time to permit their pub-
lication in the morning newspapers (programs of the
London and Berlin stations are so published) but what
listeners here really desire more than anything else
are your news broadcasts at 4.30 a.m. and 6.30 a.m.,
Pacific Standard Time. The listeners already know
the hours of the broadcasts (8.00 p.m. and 10.00 p.m.
Java time) and can tune in on them at those hours.
It should be understood that most of the news reaoh-
ing the Netherlands Indies, either by means of news-
paper despatches or in radio broadcasts, is censored,
while much of it is frank and undiluted propaganda.
KGEI is almost our only souroe of timely and unbiased
news in English, and oonsequently it is greatly ap-
FILED
preoiated not only by Americans resident here but
by those of other nationalities who can understand
the English language (which inoludes a very large per-
centage

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
centage of the European population).
Sinoe I wrote you on September 18 the reoeption
of KCkI in Java has greatly deteriorated. The 4.30
a.m. news broadoast Is almost completely drowned out
by a loud whistle exaotly on the KGEI wave length,
while two Japanese stations, believed to be JVI and JVJ,
broadoast a Japanese version of the news in English
at the same time on about 9533 Ko. As the signals
of the Japanese stations are muoh stronger than those
of KGI, the interferenoe is too great to permit KGEI
to be intelligible.
Until a few weeks ago the 6.30 a.m. news broad-
cast from Treasure Island could be received here reason-
ably distinotly but now it oannot be heard, even with
a powerful set, except onoe or twice a week. The Japan-
ese stations usually sign off shortly after 10.00 p.m.,
Java time, and oonsequently that interference oeases.
(The whistle ceases shortly after, indioating that it
is caused by the oarrier wave of the Japanese stations).
There is a great deal of side-band interferenoe from
other stations, however. Hong Kong, operating on 9526
Ke. apparently has recently inoreased its power and is
now the worst offender and cannot be entirely tuned
out even with a highly seleotive set. Berlin, operat-
ing on 9540 Ko., formerly oould not be heard in Java
but now sometimes interferes with KGEI. It is possible
that the Berlin station has recently directed a beam
toward this part of the world. In addition there is
considerable interference from other stations in this
general vioinity. At the same time, the signals from
KGEI ocoasionally are too weak to be deteoted at all.
The prinoipal trouble seems to be that GEI 1s on
a much too orowded wave-band for good reception in the
tropics of the Far East. The following stations in the
general vioinity of Batavia or with beams direoted to-
ward Malaysia and the Antipodes all offer interferenoe:
VK3ME
Molbourne
9500 Ko.
HSBPT
Bangkok
9510
Hanoi
9510
GSB
Daventry
9510
2BW3

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
ZWB3
Hong Kong
9526 Kc.
JVI
Japan
9528
VUC2
Calcutta
9530
11
JVJ
Japan
9533
DJN
Berlin
9540
YDB
Surabaya
9550
"
It is realized, of course, that your Company is
not at liberty to ohange its wave-lengths to suit the
needs of listeners in this part of the world,but it
is suggested that there would possibly be less inter-
ferenoe on about 9603 Ko., a wave-length which does
not appear to be assigned at the present time, exoept
to Central and South Amerioan stations whioh do not
broadoast at kGEI hours and which are inaudible here.
There would also seem to be less interferenoe in this
general region on the 25-meter band, but of course
this may not be true in other regions reached by KGEI.
I am interested in the subject of the reception
of KGEI in Java, not only beoause of the desire of lo-
cal Americans and others to hear the programs, but also
beoause of the reputation of American radio equipment.
Amerioan transmitting and receiving sets have for years
enjoyed a very high reputation among radio enthusiasts
in the Netherlands Indies, who are steadily fighting to
obtain the right to import them (as you know, Amerioan
radio equipment 1s praotically barred from entry into
the Netherlands Indies because of the Philips patents).
London, however, can be heard easily on five wave-lengths,
while, sinoe the beginning of the war in Europe, Berlin
seems to be on all the reoognized wave-bands. Both sta-
tions can be heard distinotly with even small, inexpensive
receiving sets, while KGEI oan be heard only occasionally
and indistinotly with the most powerful sets available
here. It is possible that listeners in the Netherlands
Indies will begin to draw oomparisons, not to the advan-
tage of American euipment and teohnical ability.
I am enolosing a chart, drawn up by Dr. A.H. Hamilton,
of this Consulate General, of the log-settings on his Gen-
eral Eleotrio receiving set for stations in the vioinity
of KGkI. The chart illustrates graphioally the orowded
condition of the wave-band in which KGkI broadoasts.
Please

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
Please aocept this letter in the spirit in which
it is sent, namely, a desire to assist American enter-
prises in every way possible.
With best regards, I am,
Very sincerely yours,
Erle R. Dickover,
American Consul General.
Enclosure:
A ohart.
Murir
1.1

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.90)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF
NTERNATIONAL COMMUNICATIONS
Feb. 9/90.
Ktlesse furnish one
photostat.
INSO

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.96)
Log settings on ny "Microlog"
93
94
95
96
97
98
G9
100
Stations coning in loudly whose setting on th
scale is very sharp.
Stations coming in strongly but whose setting
not sharp varying considerably rrom time
time.
430
Stations whose setting was fairly shanp but
megacycle value 1s not exactly known.
440
Stations heard at times but not exactly der
either as to scale setting or megacyol
450
460
470
480
490
9497
KZIB (Man11a) 94.5
.500
510
9510
GSB (Daventry) 95.0
520
9520
RU 96 (?) Russia
9538) ZB 2 (1ongkong) 95.5
530 VUC2 Ca1cutta 9530
9533. JVI (or JVJ) Japan
540
9538
VPD2
Suva
0540
550
9550
YDB (Surabaya) 96.3
560
9560
DJA (Ber1in) 96.65
570
9570
KZRM (Manila) 97.0
580
0580 VLR (Me1bourme) 97.3
590
9590
VUD2 (DeIh1, "A11 India") 97.7
.600
Suggested new
KaEl wave for
Orvental tropks.
610
9615 Q GIQ (Australia Overseas
620
(9620) (Jap, unideht111ed) 98
Sydney
630
(9635)
KZR (Man1la) 99.
640
(9648)
(Bangkok) 99.6
650
660
(9660) (Sa1gon) 00
670
(9680)(R1
po
390
9600
00
100

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
IMUNICATIONS TO
ARY OF STATE
NGTON, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
In reply refer to
tile
IN
rasd
My dear Mr. Fly:
Referring to previous correspondence in regard to the
interfogence by Japanese and Hong Kong shortwave stations
with transmissions from United States broadcasting station
KGEI, San rancisco, I enclose a copy of a letter which
has been addressed to the General Electric Company by the
American Consul General at Batavia, Java, outlining certain
details in connection with the interference.
It is thought that the Consul General's letter and
particularly the photostat of the chart accompanying it
will be of particula interest to you in the contemplated
conference between eng neers of your Commission and the
General Electric Compan directed toward a solution of
this problem.
Sincerely yours,
For the Jecretary of State:
Enclosure:
To General Electric
Breckinridge Long
Company, December 21,
Assistant Secretary
1939, with enclosure.
The Honorable
James Lawrence Fly, Chairman,
Federal Communications Commiasion.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.96)
INTERNETIONAL CONNUNICATIONS
40.
DEC291939
oeleguimt
DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
5
-612)/Q83(381201)
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
dl
WASHINGTON
27 December 1939
2
Janu.
3
Sir:
encountered interference to their reception of transmissions fro
744.74
U. S. Naval Radio Station NSS, operating on the radio frequency
17.8 kilocycles. This interference has been created by transmis-
sions from Japanese radio station JND, whose assigned and measured
frequency is 17.44 kilocycles. However, the width of signal emis-
sion by station JND is so great that interference to the reception
of signals from station NSS occurs at a point vell within the con-
894.74/222
tinental limits of the United States.
It may be noted that Appendix 3 of the General Radio Regu-
lations (Cairo Revision), which was ratified by Japan in December,
1938, prescribes a band width for amplitude modulation numerically
equal to the telegraph speed in bauds for the fundanental frequency.
In this case station JND is registered with the Berne Bureau for
Al emission (amplitude modulation) and 40 bauds, which would, in
accordance with the above-mentioned Regulations, permit a band width
of 20 cycles on either side of the fndamental or a coverage of fre-
quencies between 17.42 and 17.46 kilocycles. A strong interference
signal is occurring on 17.8 kilocycles, which is 360 cycles removed
from the fundamental of station JND.
The Navy Department would appreciate representations by
despatch to the Japanese administration requesting that an effort
be made to eliminate this interference.
It is suggested that for despatch purposes presentation may
be made in somewhat the following manner:
"Station JND measured on correct frequency 17.44 kc
however interfering with signals from United States
station NSS frequency 17.8 kc even inland within this
continent. May we request cooperative engineering effort
more nearly conform provisions appendix three Cairo
General Radio Regulations."
Respectfully,
ADVISER
CWMin
HORNBLLK
F/FG
Aoting Sebretary of the Navy
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.95)
may
TELEGRAM SENT
OFFICE
TO BE TRANEMITTED
WHETHE
CONFIDENFIAL CODE
xxx
NONCONFIDENTIAL CODE
Department of State
Department
PARTAIR
OR
PLAIN
Charge to
Washington,
1D40 JAN 4 PM 2 07
4
January, 1940.
DIVISION OF
2pm
COMMUNICATIONS
AMEMBASSY
AND RECORDS
TOKYO (JAPAN).
6
Department advised by Navy Department that station/
894.74/222
JND'measured on correct frequency/17.44 k1looyole6/1s
however interfering with signals/from United States Naval
Radio Station Ns8/frequenoy 17.8 kilooycles even inland
within this continent.
Please bring foregoing to attention/ appropriate/
Japanese authorities and request that they take the/
necessary aotion to put/an end to the/interference/com-
plained/or./ Navy Department believes that this could be/
accomplished through engineering /effort more nearly to
conform to provisions of Appendix 3, Cairo/General/Radio
Regulations.
Please telegraph results of your/representations in
this case.
Hull
EOR CR
1940
JAN
894.74/222
(M)
FIN
XN:MaOW:HGK
UFE
mint.
M..
19
1-1403

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
January 2, 1940
reply refer to
4.74/222
My dear Mr. Edison:
In accordanee with the request in your Departwent's
letter of December 27, 1939, appropriate instruotions are
being aent to the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo with regard
to the interferenoe caused to United States Naval Radio
894.74/222
Station NSs by Japanese radio station JND.
As soon as a report is received from the Embassy, I
shall comwunlcate with you again concerning this matter.
Sinoerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
George S. Messersmith
Assistant Seoretary
eah
1940
4
JAN
The Honorable
Charles rdison,
Acting Seoretary of the Navy.
F/FG
he signed orler
SIN:FdeW:HGK 1/2/40
FE
al.C
m.mH

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.95)
ADDRIESS REPLY TO
THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
AND REFER TO INITIALS
NAVY DEPARTMENT
-(59205)
0
C
WASHINGTON
E
JAN 3 - 1940
29 Deoember 1939
eia.col DToky
January 6 1940
On December 4, 1939, the Japanese vessels Eiyo Maru
(call letters JFAC) and Kaizyo Maru (call letters JWGL)
894.74
handled inter-ship traffic by radio on the frequency 375
Division of
kilocycles while in a position approximately 90 miles re-
FAH EASTERN AFFAIRS
moved from the California Coast, thereby causing serious
interference to the direction finding service being con-
-1940
ducted by the Naval Communication System on the same fre-
Degertrent of Stato
quency.
Section 7 of Article 7 and Section 4(2) of Article
21, General Radio Regulations (Cairo revision), which have
894.74/223
been ratified by the governments of Japan and the United
States, provide that the frequency 375 kilocycles is allo-
cated to radio direction finding. These sections further
provide that this channel can be used by mobile stations
only if no interference to direction finding would result
thereby.
In view of the important safety service being con-
ducted by the Naval Communication Service on the frequency
375 kilocycles, it is suggested that suitable representa-
tions be made to the Japanese government with a view to
avoiding radio traffic communications between their mobile
stations on the 375 kilocycle channel whenever these stations
are sufficiently close to the coast of the United States that
interference to direction finding services might result.
Respectfully,
C.W.Mi
F/N
Aoting Seoretary of the Navy.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
January 8 1940
10
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
In acoordanoe with the request in your Department's
letter of December 29, 1939, the American Embassy at Tokyo
1s being instructed to request the Japanese authorities to
take suitable measures to prevent interferenoe being caused
894.74/223
by Japanese vessels to the direction finding service of
the Naval Communioation System on frequency 375 kilooyoles.
Sincerely yours,
For the Seoretary of State:
George S. Messeramith
Assistant Seoretary
CR
JAN 6 1940
The Honorable
Charles Edison,
Seoretary of the Navy.
1121.
F/FG
N:FdeW:HGK 1/5/40
FE
j2m

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
January 6 1940
AB NAIL
no. 1877
The Honorable
Joseph C. Grew,
Amerioan Ambassador,
Tokyo.
S1r1
894.74/22
The Department encloses a copy of a letter dated
Deeember 29, 1939, from the Navy Department, concerning
interferenee caused to the direction finding serviee of
the Naval Communication System on frequeney 375 kilo-
eyeles, by certain Japanese vessels.
You are instruoted to bring this case to the atten-
tion of the appropriate Japanese authorities and to
3
request that steps be taken to prevent a recurrence in
the future of this kind of interference.
Very truly yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Georgs S
Enclosure:
From Navy Department,
Deeember 29, 1939.
EaK CR
JAN 6 1940

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
FEB 2 7 1940
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
File
DIVISION OF
DCR
A1
February 26, 1940
DIVISION UI
F.W.
Mr. Burke:
894.74/223
The attached letter from the Navy Department with a
894.74
copy of our air mail instruction to Tokyo and letter to
Navy have to do with interference caused to the direction
finding service of the United States Naval Communcation
System on a frequency of 375 kilocycles by certain Japan-
ese vessels. No reply has been received to our air mail
.F
instruction of January 6, l940. Furthermore, no subse-
W
quent complaint has been received from Navy.
894.747
At this point it seems apparent that the case of
interference by Japanese vessels on December 4, 1939
was an isolated one and that in the absence of further
complaints we may assume that it has not been repeated.
2
2
It appears that the Japanese ships are, under the Cairo
regulations, permitted to use this frequenoy so long as
they do not interfere with the direction finding service
and that in this instance they happened to use it a
little too close to the United States coast.
FILED
.
I consulted FT to ascertain whether as a matter of
1940
policy it desired to insist on a reply and was informed
F/
that it does not.
A
In

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.94)
-2
In view of the lack of further complaints regarding
this interference and the fact that we have other more
pressing interference negotiations on foot with the Japanese
(notably KGEI at San Francisco), it is believed that the
present case need not be pursued further at this time.
IN:HBOtterman:DBW
8

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
Bepartmrntot State
Washington,
93 AtHans toboyts
4
February 27, 1932.
F. O. Page,
(TPR) HEWLETT (Now York).
Reference your telegram of February 20 addressed to
Mr. Castle.
On February 2l the American Minister to China telegraphed
from Shanghai that he did not feel in position to take the.
tter up locally with the Chinese authorities at Shanghei
5
but that he had informed your representative at Shanghai that
he would render your representative the usual type of
appropriate assistance with the authorities of the
Chinese National Government at Nanking.
Department believes that the question of possible
emergenoy instrumentalities in regard to maintaining
communication has been adequately taken care of.
Heury h.Stunson
89.
FE24 32
u alsent
FE
24
8
19
Rr432
