894.021 Executive Departments Of Government., Japan, Foreign Office., February 9, 1948 - August 5, 1949 (File 1752)
ID: 894.021-1752   Pages: 103   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.021-executive-departments-of-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.80)
894.5164
86.602
896.77
CHARGÉ SLIP
852.4054
CHARGE TO—
DATE
CLeRK'S INITIALS
Remarks
3647 LF(molon) 4-24-47
EP208madid
t1.
202
tlatetegt meme tr
81347FFE
datets 1s 4)
t hor date o
8-547 Pi Beactha
4/12/4-70
2nst 48 5 manih
11.2147 fe
Trs-mbel

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.96)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DC/R
No. 80
Tokyo, February 9, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
DNISION OF
(For Use of Department Only)
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
FEB1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.021/2-948
FPART
Subject: Reorganization of Japanese Central Liatson
Office and Ministry of Foreign Affairs
C
TheHonorable
The Secretary of State,
r
E
B
Washington.
Siri
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch
No. 43 of January 20, 1948 with regard to reorganization
FE
of the functions of the Central Liaison Office and to
report that effective February 1, 1948 the Office, as it
oxisted under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has been
A.S
abolished. A number of sections whose services are no
FC
longer required have been completely eliminated while
others have been placed in other offices. This Head
(1
quarters' staff memorandum no. 3 of January 23, 1948
five copies of which are enclosed, outlines the new form
Dc1R
of organization.
The Central Liaison Office, created for the purpose
CSA
of centralizing contacts between the Occupation authorities
and the Japanese Government rapidly became the principal
activity of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which of course
during the present period is not occupied with ordinary con-
duct of foreign relations. It appears that some method was
sought to rmove from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the
functions of the Central Liaison Office.
吊
As will be noted in the staff memorandum, most of the
functions of the former Central Liaison Office are now to be
performed under the Prime Minister's Office or under the
Cabinet Secretariat. In the Prime Minister's Office a
Liaison and Coordination Office is now responsible for such
liaison matters as are not handled directly with an interested
Government Ministry, or by any other governmental agency.
This office will also be concerned with war crimes matters
and the control of field offices. Under the Cabinet Secreta-
riat a Reparations Commission and an Accommodation Office
have been

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.71)
Contains a rathr
d tail.I recount of reent
nten l o goizational
clo n thene
To 0,waidy
rout  th C10
i the ifaom oud coond-
to offue  the
Brume Urnicsters Office.The
ruee sizuifrint ps
d.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No.80
Feb. 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
(For Dept.Use Only)
have been formed. The latter is a temporary office con-
cerned with supplying materials and labor to the Oc-
cupation. It is anticipated that a Special Procurement
Board will shortly take over these duties.
The Mini stry cf Foreign Affairs has absorbed the
Repatriation Division and the Records Unit of the former
Central Liaison Office. The Repatriation Division is
incorporated in the Section for Stranded Personnel Abroad
of the Ministry's Control Bureau. The Records Unit of the
Central Liaison Office has now become in itself a bureau
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Its duties will be to
collect and compile documents and official papers relating
to the Occupation. Another new bureau the Civil Property
Bureau has been added to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
it will take over those responsibilities of the Central
Liaison Office relating to looted and Allied property.
The organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, prior
to the elimination of the Central Liaison Office and the
other changes just alluded to, was described in this Mis-
sion's despatch No. 1445 of December 1, 1947.
The information concerning the changes already
described and concerning additional plans for reorganiza-
tion was offered by Mr. KONDO Shinichi, Chief, Second
Section (American Affairs) of the Research Bureau of the
Ministry, when he called upon an officer of this Mission.
Mr. Kondo stated that a reorganization plan for the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs had been requested by the
Government Section in late 1947. In consequence, the plan
submitted was devised to meet a deadline of January 15.
Mr. Kondo was one of the members of the Ministry who partic-
ipated in the planning.
There is still under consideration by Government
Section, the interested Section of this Headquarters, a
proposal by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there be
other changes made in the Ministry by the beginning of the
next fiscal year, April 1, 1948, as follows:
Suggested for Elimination from Ministry of Foreign Affairs
1. General Affairs Bureau.
2.
Consulting Section for Outsiders, in the
Secretariat.
3.
International Cooperation Section, in the
Treaty Bureau.
First Section (survey of general political
and economic trends of the world), in the
Research Bureau.
Suscested
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 80
Feb. 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
(For Dept.Use Only)
Suggested Additions to Ministry of Foreign Affairs
1.
General Affairs Section, in the Secretariat
(to assume duties of General Affairs Section
of Bureau of General Affairs if this bureau
is abolished).
2. International Cooperation Bureau.
United Nations Section to handle
international organization affairs,
including those of specialized agencies.
(2)
Economic Section to replace the Economic
Section of the General Affairs Bureau
which it is proposed be abolished.
(3) Cultural Section to handle UNESCO and
other international cultural relations.
Several members involved in planning advocated the
formation of a separate bureau to hand le economic affairs
instead of a section under the International Cooperation
Bureau, but the idea was vetoed by the Foreign Minister,
Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi. The proposed International Cooper-
ation Bureau would absorb some of the duties which are
now a responsibility of the First Section of the Research
Bureau.
According to Mr. Kondo, the proposed plan is perhaps
the best that could have been put together in the short
time available, but he pointed out that he and others are
pressing for additional changes in order that the organisa-
tion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may be improved.
He is of the opinion, for example, that under present plans,
there will be some overlapping between bureaus dealing with
international affairs. Some thought, he states, is also
being given to the expansion of the Research Bureau into
geographic offices at the proper time depending upon the
progress of peace treaty negotiations.
Accompanying the reorganization which has taken place
as of February 1, there have been a number of personnel
changes. It has long been rumored that Vice Minister
OKAZAKI Katsuo had handed in his resignation to the Minister
of Foreign Affairs and would be replaced by Mr. YOSHIZAWA
Seijiro, Vice President of the Central Liaison Office. The
circumstances surrounding the resignation of Mr. Okasaki
are of interest. During a conversation with an officer of
this Mission on December 27, 1947, Mr. MATSUMOTO Takiso,
Parliamentary Vice Minister of Foreign Affairs, referred to
the visit of Mr. Okasaki to Government Section following the
publication of a stolen document having to do with the peace
treaty (this Mission's airgram No. 30 of August 9, 1947).
He said that Mr. Okasaki was told that the Foreign Office
should be "cleaned out".
CONFIDENTIAL
Mr. Matemmete

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No.80
Feb. 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
(For Dept. Use Only)
Mr. Matsumoto mentioned that Mr. Okazaki asked what
would be done in the United States in such a case and was
told that someone would be removed from office. Mr.
Okazaki, according to Mr. Matsumoto, was unable to find a
culprit, so proposed a wholesale housecleaning including
himself. Tis was objected to by Mr. NISHIMURA Kumao, the
new chief of the Treaty Bureau. As a result only the
names of the chiefs of three bureaus were submitted to
Government ection for removal, namely General Affairs,
Research, and Custodial Bureaus. (It is worth noting
that, after a visit to Government Section Mr. Okazaki has
recently told an officer of this Mission that his resigna-
tion was not the result of pressure by the Government
Section, but because of the personal desire of Dr. Ashida.
It is reported that at this later visit Mr. Okazaki was
told that his resignation and the suggested changes in
the Ministry were entirely a Japanese affair.)
Mr. Kondo stated that at the meeting of the Cabinet
on January 30, Mr. Okazaki's resignation and the appoint-
ment of Mr. Yoshizawa were approved. At the same meeting,
additional personnel changes, including the appointment of
chiefs of the three bureaus whose names had been submitted
to Government Section at the same time as Mr. Okagaki's
were approved. The new chief of the Research Bureau re-
placing Mr. HORETSU Kota is Mr. MATSUDAIRA Koto, who has
been a staff member of the Foreign Service Training
Institute. The new chief of the Bureau of General Affairs,
replacing Mr. OTA Ichiro, is Mr. ASAKAI Koichiro, former
chief of the General Affairs Division of the Central Liaison
Office. The new chief of the Control Bureau replacing Mr.
ONO Katsumi is Mr. WAJIMA Jiro former head of the Nagoya
branch of the Central Liaison Office.
Mr. ISONO Yuzo, former chief of the Custodial Depart-
ment of the Central Liaison Office, is now chief of the
new Civil Property Bureau. Mr. INóUYE Kojiro, former chief
of the Economic Division of the Central Liaison Office, is
chief of the new Records Bureau.
Mr. Kondo stated on January 31 that the additional
changes mentioned above are still under discussion with
Government Section.
Respectfully yours,
eance
W. J. Sebald
Acting Political Adviser
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure:

=== Page 7 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's No. 80
Feb. 9, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
(For Dept.Use Only)
Enclosure:
Staff Memorandum No. 3,
General Headquarters,
SCAP, January 23, 1948
(five copies).
802.1/800
WHLawrence, Jr.:cs
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 8o dated
February 9, 1948 fron the Office of
UnitedStates Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Reorganisatio
of Japanese Central Liaison Office and
Ministry of Foreign Affairs".
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
AND
FAR EAST COMMAND
AG 091.1 (21 Jan 48)GS
APO 500
23 January 1948
STAFF MEMORANDUM)
(SCAP)
CENTRAL LIAISON OFFICE REORGANIZATION,
JAPANESE GOVERNMEIT
1. Effective 1 February 1948 the Central Liaison Office, Japanese
Government, as it has existed under the Linistry of Foreign Affairs,
will be abolished. A number of sections, whose services are no longer
required, will be completely oliminated, while others will be reactivated
by the Japanese Government as shovm in paragraph 2.
2. Roactivated portions of the Central Liaison Office and the form
of organization will be as follows:
a. Prime Minister's Office.
(1) Liaison and Coordination Office.
(a) Ceneral correspondonce and contact matters not
handled directly.
(b)
Political and governmental matters not falling
under the jurisdiction of any other government
ministry or agoncy.
(c)
General supervision over liaison between the
Japanese Government and the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers.
(d) War crimes metters and liaison with the Inter-
national Military Tribunal for the Far East,
International Prosecution Section, and Legal
Section, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers,
concerning such matters.
(e) Administrative and operational control of local
(field) liaison offices and staffs.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.93)
(SM 3)
b. Communications will be authenticated by the Adjutant
General and dispatched to the Liaison and Coordination Offioe, Prime
Minister's Office.
BY COLMAND OF GENERAL MaaARTIHUR:
PAUL J. MUELLER,
Major General, General Staff Corps,
OFFICIAL:
levy
Chief of Staff.
R. M. LEVY,
Colonel, AGD,
Adjutant General.
3
Bi

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.99)
894.021/2-948
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
DESP.80 FROM TOKYO
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
Confidential File
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
OCT19 1948
FAP
FILHD
M-184
9-23-48

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.91)
MAR 5 1948
SECRET
N. 80
Tokyo, February 9, 1948.
2OLDEL
.1.
 c eozion  nee Jentral Liaison
t iee i i try of orein ffairs.
894.021
orcie
ir:
2
I   tt o or to r er to this  ission's despatch
2-948
 43  Jm  0, 194 ith re ad to reorganization
of she furctions of ne ont ral Iluison tffice one to
report that effective Pebrurry 1, 194s the ofrice, as it
existei under  inistry or orein ffairs, has been
aoolished.
 nubt of sections hose cervices are no
lon er reouired ve bec. coarletely climirated witle
others h ve been  lae d in other ofrlces. Phis Head-
quarters? staif  or undum no. 3 of Janue y 23, 1948
five co ies of lich are enclosed, outl ines the nes form
of ort anizotion.
The Central siuison cffice, ere ted for the purpose
of centralizin: contacts betucen the cccupation authoritles
and the Japenesc overament rapidly becume the principal
activity of the ini stry of ureim fairs, wich of course
durins tne present crie is not occupic ath ordinary con-
duct oi forti in relatiuns. It appears ti it so. le mctndd was
sought to resove from the ini stry of orein ffuirs the
functions of the Jentral Liaisou Orfice.
is will be soted in the staff momorandum, most of the
functions of the raor entr l iaison ufrice are now to be
performed under the . rime inister's tfiice or under the
Dabinct fcr tariat. In the riar inister's ofiice a
Liaison ond Joordimatien (tfi ce is vo res onsirle for such
liaison matters as are not landled directly with in interested
Government  inistry, or by any other overnmental agency.
This office vill also be concerned ith war crimes matters
and the control of field offices. Under the Jabinet Secreta-
riat a Reparations Comission and an Accommodation Office
have been

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.90)
Tokyo's No.80
Feb. 9, 1948
XIFIDENPIAL
-2-
(For Dept.Use (nly)
have heen formed. The latter is a tem orary office con-
corned wi ur supplyin  tcri ls he labor to the Oc-
cu. tion. It Is anticipatco that  Special  rocurement
w.d ill sortly take ovr. tce muties.
Phe . ini stry of Forei n Aifaire hns pbsorbed the
ri tion i ision an te tecor's tnit of the former
ntral siaiso  ice. e nepitiistion sivision is
ir eor orated i t. cctio. ror sti and ed Persoanel Abroad
of  I inistry's isntrol u. fnt ccords Unit of the
Sentral Lislson ci lct n now vecour in itself a bureau
of sc ii istry o . oi ci r. ffuirs. Its cuties will be to
collec  co ile ocrr s crticial papes reloting
 te Cecptione otac e urcau te ivil Property
on cau ras b  edded to the .i i sury o oreigp ffairs;
it ill take ove h res or si ilities of the Sentral
Li i on' ffice pciatin. vo lcoten and Ailied property.
h or anizution of ti iuistry of orei n ffair, prior
to te elinin tion of the Jenoral bicicon tffice and the
otrcr ci an es just lluded to, was cescribed in this his-
sloats despateh . 1445 o1 scomber 1, '947.
The inforas tion cone orne the o an es lready
described un conct rmin mdit ronel  lans for reorganiza-
tion wa offered by r.   hinichi, hicf, Second
ection (me icn fairs) o the esearch ureau of the
sini sury, wh en be clled upon un ofricer of tris  ission.
ir. Hondo stsccd tit a reor aizntion plan for the
rini ctry of Forci n Ffuir w? bren recuesbed by the
overnent ection in late l47. in cousecucnce, the plan
sutmiuted wes devised to meet a deadline of Janulary 15
r. Roudo was one of the ters of tit  inisury who partic-
ipated in the planning.
There ir till under consideration by covernment
Section, t e intcrr ted section of this heudquarters, a
proposal b the Pinistry of orei n ffairs that there be
other changes made in tlhe  ini try by the beginmin of the
next riscal year, pril 1, 1/4, as follows:
Ju ested for li ination from  i istry or orei n ffaire
1.
General ffairs bureau
2.
Jonsulting cction for futsiders, in the
Jecretariat.
3.
Intermational Jooperation ection, in the
Treaty Bureau.
140
First jection (survey or eneral political
and economic trends of the world), in the
Research sureau.
ugcested
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.85)
Tokyo's No. 80
Feb. 9, 1942
-3-
(For ept.Uac nly)
 ested adition toisr on orei n iffairs
1.
en ral ffairs ection, i te ccretariat
(to vss dutie of enerl fairs lection
or uread or nrl frairs if tis bureau
is arolisnel).
Intern vlonal Jporrr ation Purem.
(1) l
interripal o eni zati n affaire,
1. el irespucisliced a encies.
(2)
cone cutis is ir.i of ure cononic
c  li e
olised
()   and
other i'ernel e ltural relations.
ceveral m ters invelved i,lemir sovecated the
lorr tion or  sep a ate put ca to he: le cconomie affairs
i. tea t a soc:ic adtr ule erntionel Jocperation
reau, b te idou waa vetoc  te or ui. inister,
Iitoshire setLon Dooper
atlor t ea woel tsorh core er te cuties which are
recasilit f  i seron of the esearch
recor din to r. souo, ts roposed plan is porhaps
the be t old er bo et in the short
ti me availatle, but h pi. ted or tn t e rd others are
preosi for a it l  es in crder se te organiza
tio or ic inistry o rei a fairs mo be improved.
lle is of tle opiniot, for exuple, tit nier :resent plans,
there will to come overlapin ocowee. turcaus dealing with
international frairs. Some thm t, he statcs, is ulso
bein iven to the sx unsiot of the ese ren urenu into
ceographic offices a the proper time lependin upon the
pro ress of  ence treaty ne otiations.
Accompanyin the reorgunization wuicn has taken place
as of February 1, there lave been e eber of ersonnel
chan es. It ha: long ueen ruuored thes Vice ini ster
OKAZAKI Katsuo had nanded in vis resi nation to the Linister
of roreign Affairs and vould be rey l.ced by  r. YucllIZAVA
Seijiro, Vice President of the Ceutral Linison (ffice. The
circumstances surroundin the resination of  r. Okazaki
are of interert. Juri..  conversation vit an oflicer of
this rissi on un vecember, ly47,r. Tu Takizo,
Parliamentary .ice  inister of orein fiairs, referred to
the visit of r. vkazaki to ovemcnt ection following the
publication of a stolen docmurit hevin to do witn the peace
treety (this Fissients nirorem o. 30 oo uuet 2, 1947).
He said that 'r. Okazaki was told that the Foreign Office
should be "cleaned out".
CONFID RTIAL
Mr. Matsumoto

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.78)
Tokyo's No.
teb. 9, 1743
-4-
(or . l)
 kazaxi esked what
e  in e nitcs in such a ense and was
roficer
kazaki, ccora moto, ws ble to rind a
colprit, so ppoles ouseclenin including
 tto
. Kumao, the
sult niyt
id to
clfrairs
i1easi t we tn noting
 k hs
col
rent
desishida
rsirkzaki was
to tu oted cnes in
t ry e ently nece ffair)
i
i
oinent o
iakis
wo roved.ne ne clef o e escaretureau re
pl. cirr.  ot ie r.t noto, who has
been: uf et   oret n ervicerainins
nstiute. Te e c. icf f t urem f oneral frairs,
rlscirciro, is r.K I doictiro, former
ic erel rirs i sor o the Jentral Lieison
e te neu cie  che ourl m e releine r
he Kacouni is, r d Jiro re e ne  o? the Lagoya
brenc r  oeri  f ce.
 Yzo former   codial epart
went of the entral llaisor tf lce, s now chief of the
new ivil ropertyureau. Pr.uY fojiro, former chief
of the conomie Ivision or he Sentral Liaison uffice, is
chi er of he ne ccorde ur cau.
r. Kondo stated on Janvary 3l tn the aeditional
changes nenttoned ssove aic suill und r iscuusion with
Government cction.
espectfully yours,
. J. ebald
Acting olitical aviser
CONFI DENTIAL
inclosure:

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.77)
30.1/00
AL

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
NORTHER
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
OC5119480
FOR JAPAN2
1948 0CT
No. 639
DEPARTMENT OF STARE
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, September 28, 1948.
(For Department use only)
Sübject: Organization of Ministry of Foreign Affairs
RECEIVED
18
894.021/9-2848
NOV 1 1948
The Honorable
REPAR MENT OF STATE
The Secretary of Stat
Washington, D. C.
Sir:
894
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatches
No. 1445 of December 11, 1947 and No. 80 of February 9,
1948 concerning the organization of the Ministry of Foreign
1/2/3/
Affairs and to enclose three documents which were presented
informally to an officer of this Mission by a representative
of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These docu-
ments describe the present organization of the Ministry and
the re-organization plan which is intended to be presented
to the Diet during its next extraordinary session, and
include a chart of the existing organization and planned
changes.
A/MJS FILED
The Department's attention is particularly invited to
the following changes proposed by the re-organization plan
as outlined in the ohart:
(a) The Economic Affairs Section of the
ESB 16 1949
Bureau of General affairs will be transferred
NOV 8 1948
to a new bureau to be known as the Bureau of
International Economic Affairs. The Bureau
will also absorb the committee described in the
document The Committee on International Trade
which was set up by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs in April 1948 for the study of
commercial treaties and trade agreements with
other countries.
Cultural Exchange. The Foreign Relations Section
INFORMATION
changes are in title only, the functions and
duties remaining the same.
CONFIDENTIAL
The
3637

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 639
September 28, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
The document entitled The Committee on Internationel
Trade is of special interest because we believe it gives
a summary of Japanese Government thinking in preperation
for resuming more normal international relations, partie-
ularly with regard to commeroe and trade. In the doou-
ment it is pointed out, when Japan is permitted to resume
such relations, treaties of commerce and navigation will
have to be negotiated with other nations and that the
preparation and negotiation of these treaties will involve
a major portion of Japan's diplomatio efforts. It is
clear that the Japanese Government recognizes that the
prewar treaties of commerce and navigation would not be
adequate to meet the present international situation and
that therefore new treaties will have to take into con-
sideration the changed aspects of international relations.
It is further indioated in the dooument that the
Ministry of Foreign wffairs is proceeding with the
necessary studies so that it may be in a position to dis-
charge its responsibilities at any time. Aside from the
value for future use of such efforts on the part of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it is olaimed that such
preparations have an immediate practical signiricanee
because decisions made now (as, for example, inviting
private foreign capital investments) involve some of
the same oonsiderations as the treaties. Moreover, as a
result of its studies the Committee on Intemational
Trade has been able to furmish this Headquarters with
valuable statistical data on international trade.
In the document, a differentiation is made between
the duties of the Ministry of Foreign iffairs and those
of other governmental organs with respect to the conduet
of foreign trade. The doeument is apparently prepared
for use during the coming National Diet session to estab-
lish the importance of locating the new Bureau of Inter-
national Economic affairs in the Ministry of Foreigm
Affairs.
Yours respectfully,
W. J. Sebald
melosures:
1. Copy of Present Organization and
Aetivities of Ministry for Foreign
Affairs.
2.
Chart Indicating present organiza-
tion of Ministry for Foreign Affairs
and proposed re-organization.
3.
Copy of doeument The Committes on
International Trade.
80s.1
WLawreneeJr/eg
original and heetegraph to Department.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despateh Mo. 
September 28, 1948, from the Ofrtee
the United States Politieal Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subjeet: mOrgamime-
tion of Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
COPY
Present Organization and aotivities
of the inistry for Foreign affairs
Minister's Secretariat
Personnel Section
Archives Seotion
Accounts Seotion
Bureau of General affairs
General affairs Section
Political affairs Section
Economio ffairs Section
Bureau of Treaties
Treaties Section
Legal Section
International Cooperation Section.
Bureau of Research and Documentation
First Section
Second Section
Third Section
Fourth Seotion
Fifth Section
Bureau of Control
General Affairs Section
Overseas Japanese Section
Ropatriation and Passport Seotion
Eoonomio Affairs Section
Bureau of Civil Property
First Seotion
Second Section
Third Section
Fourth Section
Division of Special Records
First Section
Second Seotion
Division of Publie Information and Cultural Exchange
Press Seetion
Foreign Press Seetion
Oultural Exohange Section
Foreign serviee Training Lastitate
SONCIDEITIAL
I. Minister's

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Imolosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 639 of
September 28, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
I. Minister's Secretariat
The responsibilities of this office are indicated in
the paragraphs which follow.
(1) Personnel Section: This Seotion is
responsible for (a) matters pertaining to
personnel management in the Ministry, (b) main-
tenance of personnel records and reports,
(c) protocol matters, (d) extending facilities
to foreign diplomats.
(2) archives Section: This Section is
responsible for (a) receipt, distribution and
dispatoh of all correspondence and telegraphic
communications, (b) custody of official seal
and attestation of documents, (c) classirication
and preservation of documents and records, (d)
translation of documents, (e) compilation and
publication of diplomatio documents.
(3) ccounts Seotion: This Section 1s
responsible for (a) preparation of budgets,
settlement of accounts and other accountant
matters, (b) fire-protection, guard, etc. of
the Ministry, (c) welfare facilities for the
officials and employees of the Ministry.
II. Bureau of General affairs
This Bureau is responsible for coordination and
planning of the over-all administration of the Ministry and
the study of political and economic affairs in general and
for such affairs as do not come within the jurisdietion of
other bureaus.
The secretariat to a special committee which is set up
in the Ministry for the study of commeroial treaties and
trade agreements with other countries is attached to this
Bureau.
(1) General affairs Section: This Section
is responsible for administrative coordination of
inter-bureau affairs, planning of the over-all
administration of the Ministry, and also for such
matters as do not come within the jurisdiction of
other Bureaus.
(2) Political Affairs Section: This Section
is responsible for the study of internal political
problems in relation with international relations
and also for the liaison with the Diet.
(3) Eoonomie Affairs Section: This Section
is responsible for the study of international
eoomomic problems including international economic
organizations.
CONFIDENTIAL
III. Bureau

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 639 of
September 28, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
III. Bureau of Treaties
Tnis Bureau is responsiole for matters pertaining to
treaties and other international agreements, and also
matters of legal cheracter which come under the jurisdiotion
of the inistry, and for affairs concerning international co-
operttion.
(1) Treaties section: This Section 1s
responsible for matters relating to the oonolu-
sion, promulgation and interpretation of
treaties und international agreements.
(2) Legal section: This section is respon-
sible for matters reltting to intemational law
and other matters of legal character which come
under the jurisdiction of the inistry.
(3) International cooperation section: This
Section is responsible for matters ooncerning
international cooperation, particularly the
teohnical study of the United Nations Organiza-
tion and other intemational organizations.
IV. Bureau of Research and Documen tation
This Bureau is responsible for the study of conditions
in respective countries, and the current international
affairs and problems.
(1) First Seotion: This Section is respon-
sible for the coordination of programs and
activities within the Bureau, and in oharge of
the study of intermational organizations and oon-
ferences.
(2) Second Section: This Section is respon-
sible for the study of the U.S.a. and other
countries in the western Hemisphere.
(3) Third Section: This Section is respon-
sible for the study of the U.S.S.ri., Eastern Europe,
and Near East.
(4) Fourth Seotion: This Section is respon-
sible for the study of the British Commonwealth,
Western Europe, Middle and Northern Europe and
Middle East and Africa.
(5) Fifth Section: This Section is respon-
sible for the study of East and Southern sia.
V. Bureau of Control
This Bureau is responsible for matters relating to the
liquidation of matters regarding fomer Japanese oversees
territories, and for matters pertaining to the welfare and
repatriation of Japanese abroad.
CONLIDEHTIAL
(1) General

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 639 of
September 28, 1948.
CONFIDENTLAL
(1) General Affairs Section: This Section
is responsible for the coordination and adjust-
ment of affairs under the jurisdiction of this
bureau and the liguidation of administrative
matter regarding former Japanese overseas terri-
tories.
(2) Overseas Japanese Section: This Section
is responsible for matters pertaining to the wel-
fare of overseas Japanese.
(3) nepatriation and Passport Section: This
Section is responsible for metters concerning the
repttriation of Japanese abroad as well as
foreigners in Japan, and also passport and travel
to foreign countries.
(4) Lconomio affairs Seotion: This Seotion
is responsible for matters relating to Japanese
properties and assets in foreign countries and
liquidation of business enterprises inoluding
closed institutions in former overseas territories
and occupied areas.
VI. Bureau of civil Property
This Bureau is responsible for liaison with the Civil
Property Custodian, SCaP, and investigation, maintenanee
and disposal of looted property, and such matters as are not
assigned to other governmen tal agencies with regard to civil
property now being taken care of by the Civil Property
Custodian, SCAP.
(1) First Section: This Section is respon-
sible for (a) matters handled by the Controller
Division, C.P.C., as well as (b) important general
matters relative to civil property suoh as
planning and study for compensation and budget,
etc., and (o) receipt, distribution and dispateh
of all correspondence relative to civil property.
(2) Second Section: This Section is respon-
sible for the investigation, custody, restitution,
ete. of looted property.
(3) Third Section: This Section is respon-
sible for liaison concerning matters handled by
the Foreign Property Division, C.P.C. other than
looted property, and industrial property, etc.,
and also related routine work not handled by other
governmental agencies.
(4) Lourth Section: This Section is respon-
sible for liaison concerning Japanese property now
controlled by C.P.C., SaaP, inoluding impounded
presious metal and stones, war erimimal suspests'
property, elosed institutions, extermal assets,
ote., and also related routine work not handled by
ether governmemtel agemeies.
VII. Divisien

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
knolosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 639 of
September 28, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
VII. Division of Special records
This Division 1s responsible for affairs relating to
compilation and study of the records pertaining to the
occupation of Japan.
(1) First Section: This Seotion is respom-
sible for collection and compilation of records
portaining to the occupation.
(2) Second Section: This Section is respon-
sible for study of signiricant records pertaining
to the ocoupation.
VIII. Division of Public Information and Cultural
Exchange
This Division is responsible for the affairs ooncerning
the international information and press and intermational
cultural cooperation.
(1) Press Section: This Seotion is respon-
sible for matters pertaining to vernacular press.
(2) Foreign Press Section: This Section is
responsible for the matters pertaining to foreign
press and international information.
(3) Cultural Exchange Section: This Section
is responsible for matters pertaining to cultural
exchanges with foreign countries and cooperation
with intermational cultural organizations.
IX. Foreign Service Training Institute
This Institute is responsible for training officials
of the Ministry.
COPY
CONTIDENTIAL

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.85)
Present Crganization
et
next strec
Éna       ted
Sep  the
n
onr or
Vinister's 3:cretariat
Personnel Section
Archives Section
riv
Accounts Section
Mnn fr
Bureau of General Affairs
General Affairs Section
e  
Political Atiairs Section
Polltit i
Economic 1airs 3clior
sureau er erat  cc 
Commerclal erles
Bureau of Treaties
sr eti
Treaties Section
Legal Saction
Le i 
Internaticnal Cooperatier ctien
Bureau of Research end Lk curniation
1st Section
let ocuien
2nd Section
End kciler
3rd Section
3rd Jection
4th Section
4th xction
5th Section
th 3ction
CONIDMNTLL
Bureau of Control
sreau oi Cntrel
ONE INIIAL
General Afraire Bection
cenerl Alairs y ction
cverseas Ja. anese kction
Overseas Jpanese Jection
Repetriation and Passport 3ection
Repatriation arc Passport  ction
Economic Aricirs Sccticn
Economic Allairs Section
ureau of

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.82)
-2-
Bureau cf Civil Propert.
1st Scticn
lut iction
2nd Jection
2nc ycticn
3rd Section
ri xction
4th Sxction
4th kctien
Division of 3rtcial Recorus
1st Section
1 t  etier
2nd Jction
Divisien of Public Rel tions
c ar e
Trass S ction
cti.n
Ferein Pelations Section
in prèss
3ec
Cultural acher e ction
Ferein s vice . irin titite
Noter The reoranize icnler invelves
1. Te Ecenomic s ction
rt. tre said
suicau end tc. ctr ith tus ccin ite .
c. cc .. ci.i
with. other ce:ntrics mich mas
rr1cneic
ola n63g9
Affeirs will oc set up.
2. ue Divisicn ct ulicc
uPaolicrtCultural
.15448.
Excharge ard t'e Forei n Pelatione yctien il  cli  erci n   c ion. mere will
be no chances ir t in 1nution stics.
énlore no

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 3 to Despateh No. ese
dated September 28, 1948, frem the
Ofrice of the United States Politieal
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the sub-
jeot: "Organization of Ministry of
Foreign Affairs."
COPY
"The committee on International Trade"
1. The Committee on International Trade has been set
up within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in early April,
1948. Under the chairmanship of the Vioe-Minister for
Foreign iffairs, the Committee carried out researches and
studies with the cooperation of the various Bureaus of
Foreign Office. Thus the Committee is, in its charaeter,
an inter-Bureau organ of research and study. The major
task is to conduct basio and comprehensive studies on
matters relating to treaties of commeroe and navigation,
and international organizations in the economic field (as
set forth in the Study Program annexed hereto) in order
that the Foreign Office may be prepared for the day when
Japan will be permitted to rejoin international economy,
and participate in world oommeroe and trade. The researehes
on most or the subjects listed in the above Study Program
have been completed after earnest and careful examination,
and the others are also nearing its ∞mplotion.
It should be added that the Committee has maintained
close contact with the llied authorities concerned, who
are being informed of this progress and results of its
investigations.
2. or the treaties of oommerce and navigation between
Japan and the other Powers, the American-Japanese and Anglo-
Japanese treaties had already been denounced before the mar
and the majority of the others have in praotice ceased to
exist as a result of the War. Accordingly, if Japan is
permitted to re-open normal foreign relations in future, she
will have to oonclude treaties of commeree and navigation
anew with all other Powers with which she trades, and the
best part of her diplomatic efforts will have to be expended
in this field.
The oontents of treaties and ommerce and mavigation
inelude not only matters relating to export and import but
also sueh extensive matters as the entry of persons, their
residenee, travel, business activities and asquisition or
disposal of property, activities of juristic persons, treat-
ment of vessels, eto. and are closely related to domestie
legislation of Japan and foreign ∞untries ∞ncerning these
matters.
Moreever, the prewar treaties of commeree and mavigation
of Japam were coneluded mestly in l9ll and do not meet the
astual situation of intermational commeree and ecomemy.
Treaties of commeree and mavigation to be coneluded hereafter
should take mew sireumstanees into comsideration. It is
reperted that the Ameriean Govemment intemds to replace the
existing treaties of commeree and mavigation so that they may
CANLIDENTIAL
oocorm

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Inclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 639 of
September 28, 1948.
conform to the new state of affairs. As a mtter of fact,
America has conoluded new treaties with China, Italy, ete.,
which contain much that is new and not provided for in the
former Japanese treaties. On the other hand, new inter-
national agreements, such as the Bretton Woods Agreement,
the International Trade Charter, eto., have come into being
since the war, and the framework of such intermational
agreements should be taken into onsideration also in
bilateral treaties of commerce and navigation.
In the light of these circumstances, long preparations
are needed for the conclusion of treaties of ommeree and
navigations, and the Ministry of Foreign ffairs is required
to proceed with such preparations in order that it may be
ready at any time to discharge its responsibility.
3. The study and research on treaties of commeree and
navigation comprehend not only preparations for their future
conclusion but also an immediate, practical significance.
The question of inviting private foreign capital investments
in Japan, now being studied by the Japanese Govemment at
the request of the General Headquarters, involves a decision
to be made by Japan upon matters whioh ought to be the
important contents of treaties of ommerce and navigation,
such as land owmership of foreigners, their business
activities, mining right, acquisition or disposal of pro-
perty, the protection of their patents, eto. The matters
are not dealt with by any other Government agenoy. In oon-
neetion with the consideration of the question by the
Economic Stabilization Board, the Ministry of Forei Affairs
has been requested to make a study of these matters with
respect to Japan's future commitment in the field of inter-
national trade and commerce.
Moreover, the Committee on Intemational Trade has fur-
nished eertain sections of the GHe such as Foreign Trade
Division and Research and Programs Division in ESS with re-
ference materials and data mainly on intemational trade,
inoluding the following:
Foreign Trade Statistios of Siam (1935-1958)
Foreign Trade Statistios of Netherlands East
Indies (1956-1939)
Foreign Trade Statisties of French Indo-China
(1935-1939)
Trade Statistios mainly between Japan and
Various Countries in Sterling Area
(1935-1959)
A Plan for Trade with Siam (august 1948 -
July 1949)
Estimated Import and Export from Pakistan
4. The study and research on treaties of commeree and
navigation are intended to obtain data for establishing the
basis of commercial relations between Japan and other countries,
whieh are of a permanent nature, extending over many years in
the futare, wi thout in any way being concerned with the
aetual eeaduet of foreign trade. This preliminary work is ome
CONIDETIAL
of the

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
inclosu e Xo. 3 to
Fokyo's No. 639 of
septembe1 28, 1948.
JONEIDLNTIAL
- 3 -
of the proper tnu primary duties of the inistry of soreign
affairs end inich neither juplicates nor conrlicts with the
cuthority tni responsitility or any other Government offices.
For example, the Trtue Board, being & Government agency to
ctrry on trade under the control of the Occupttion authorities,
takes charge of metters concerning actual foreign trede
transuctions, such is the receint tni aelivery of trade goods
end the domestie settleient of theii accounts. etters such
as the conclusion of commerciel treaties or the preperetion
therefor are not within the tuthority of the Trade Board,
which in fact is not detling with them.
OPY
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
file
Tokyo, March 29, 1949.
REC'D
AFR. 4
Mo acTim rgi
ACTION
No. 183.
FE
RESTRICTED.
INFO
DCR
OLI
OFS
Subject: Reorganization of the Japanese Foreign Office.
C
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
894.021/3-2949
the memorandum of couversation between an official of the
Japanese Foreim Office and an officer of this Mission con-
cerning present plans for the reorganization of the Foreign
Office of the Japanese Government.
Although plans for the reorganization of the Foreign
Office have not yot been completed, the Foreign Office is
prepared to implament a Cabinet decision by reducing both
its personnel and the nunber of its offices by thirty per
cent. Other Ministries of the Japanese Government are not,
however, meeting with equal success in their efforts to
reduce their size and operations.
Enclosure:
Memorandum of conversation,
March 25, 1949, Mr. Akira MATSUI.
361.3
RBFinn: gnd :hh
Parchment Hat to the Department.
RESTRICTED
MAY 3 1949
FILEC
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 183 dated
RESTRICTED
March 29, 1949 from United Stases
Political Adviser for Japan, Tolgye,
subject: 'Reorganisation of the Jape
nose Foreigm Office.
COPY
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
March 25, 1949.
RESTRICTED
SUBJLCT :
Reorganization of the Japanese Foreign Office.
PARTICIFANTS:
Ar. Akira LATSUI
Chief, General Affairs Section,
General Affairs Bureau,
Japanese Foreign Orfice.
Mr. R. B. Finn,
Third Secretary.
1. Mr. Matsui callal in order to inform this Mission of the
progress of the reorganization of the Foreign Ainistry. He stated
that the general policy for reorganization of all government
Ministries had been declared on February 25, 1949 by the Cabinet,
which decided that both the offices and the personnel of all Jape-
nese Government agencies should be reduced by thirty per cent.
2. In accoriance with this decision, the Foreign Office pre-
pared plans for elimination of approximatoly thirty per cent of
its staff and corresponding reduction of the number of its offices.
The present number of persons working in the Foreign Office is
about thirteen hundred, of whom about seven hundred and seventy are
career civil service or Foreign Service officials. It is expected
that a total of about four hundred people will be eliminated, in-
cluding about two hundred and fifty career people.
The Foreign Office at presont consists of a Minister's Secre-
tariat, the Foreign Service Training Institute, and seven bureaus -
General Affairs, Treaties, Research and Documentation, Control,
Civil Property, Public Relations, and Special Records. Under the
plan submitted to the Cabinet for approval, the Foreign Office will
consist of the Hinister's Secretariat, the Foreign Service Institute,
and five
RESTRICTER

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 183 of March 29,
1949.
-2
and five bureaus -- Political Affairs (which will absorb the
former Bureaus of Public Relations and Special Records),
Treaties, Research and Documentation, Control, and Liaison.
The Civil Property Bureau will be transferred to the Repara-
tions Bureau in the Prime Minister's Office. The Contral
Liaison and Coordination Office, now under the Prime Minister,
is to be greatly reduced in sise and brought into the Poreign
Office as the Bureau of Liaison. This plan has been submitted
to State Minister Ichiro HONDA, who is the Cabinet Minister
directly charged with preparing plans for the reorganization
of the Japanese Government. Unce the plan for reorganising the
various bureaus of the Foreign Office is approved, Foreign
Office officials then expect to put into effect plans already
drawn for discharging approximately thirty per cent of the
Ministry'3 personnel.
3. Any change in the structure of the Foreign Office, as
in the case of the other Ministries of the Government, must be
approved by the Diet, to which a reorganization bill will be
submitted in due course.
All Ministries and other agencies of the Government have
been ordered to effect a thirty per cent reduction, both of
offices and of personnel, by June 1, 1949. It is necessary,
therefore, that the Diet approve the various reorganization
bills at that time.
4. Mr. Matsui stated that to date only the Foreign Office
and the Ministry of Finance appear to have had much success in
their efforts to reduce by thirty per cent. Several cther
Ministries have indicated their feeling that they could not
eliminate any functions or personnel. The difficulty in re-
duction has been aggravated by a statement attributed to Prime
Minister YOSHIDA that the thirty per cent reduction need not
be made across the board by all agencies but was rather a total
figure for the entire operations of the government; some agencies
might be aliminated while others would remain unchanged. This
statement, Mr. Natsui indicated, has slackened efforts on the
part of certain high government officials to reorganize their
agencies.
5. Officiale of the Foreign Office are particularly con-
cerned about their Ministry since they realise that under present
conditions it is not making an effective contribution to the
operations of the Government. They fear that the Foreign Office
may become a victim of the refusal of other Ministries to im-
plment faithfully the Cabinet decision of February 25.
6. I asked
PPSTRETED

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 183 of
March 29, 1949.
-3-
6. I asked ir. Mat sui whether it was contemplated
tat Foreign Office personnel would enter the proposed
Ministry of Trade and Commerce (see this Mission's A-45
of February 24, 1949). Mr. Matsui said that it had been
thought criginally that large numbers of Foreign Office
personnel would enter the new Ministry but that it was
later decided that tl.eir contribution to the economic and
comnercial work of the new Ministry would be so linited as
to make tran sfer not worth while.
R. B. Finn
361.3
RBFinn: gnd:hh
RESTRICTED

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.93)
THE POREIGN SERVICE
OF THE.
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
LEGAL ADVISER
United States Politioal Adviser
2917
for Japan
JU-1949
Ho. 266
Tobyo Apr1l 28, 1949
seR
RESTRICTED
79
PARTMENT OF
REC'D
MAY 2
Subject:
Prensmittin eples of Draft Lan for Heoree ni-
ACTION
zation of Ju  sse . inictey of Percie Affeirs.
FE ENC
INFO
DCR
The Acting Politicel ldviser ras tre honor to
894.021/4-2849
CJI ENC
refer to this Tissien's desputeh no. 19s of laro!. 29,
ENC
l94s, concerning the reorganization of the Japanese
Ministry of Forelgn ffeirs, si to transmit to the
Departent four copies, in nlish translation, of the
draft law for the esteblishrent of the roorgnizad
ministry.
The draft law vas sproved by the Jabi at ril 12,
C
l949, und by the Goveinlent Section, General Heaaauarters,
on april l8. It Ls beon submittec to the Tation Jiet
and is expeoted to be enaoted without olcn.
Enclosure:
Draft Law for Reorganizetion
of Japanese Linistry of Foreln
Affairs (4 coples ta nglish)
19949u  44 19
DIVISION OF FR
noted-hs
MAY 1 2 1949
Parohment Mat to Departrent.
361.3
CNSpinks:nhp
RESTRICTED

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.89)
D-766T
THE MINISTRY OF FCREIGN AFFAIRS
ESTABLISHMENT LAW (DRAFT)
ooooooooonoooCoooooooooo
Approved by the Cebinet
on April 12, 1949

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs Establishment Law
(Draft)
Contents
Chapter I General Provisions (Articles 1--4)
Chapter JI Ministry Proper (Articles 5--19)
Section l Internal Subdivisions (Articles
5--11)
Section 2 Auxiliary Organs (Articles 12--14)
Section 3 Local Branch Offices (Articles 15--19)
Chapter III Diplomatic and Consular Establishments
Abroad (Articles 20--22)
Chapter IV Personnel (Articles 23 and 24)
Supplementary Provisions

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs Establishment Law
Chapter I General Provisions.
Purpose of this Law
Article 1
The purpose of this Law is to define clearly
the scope of responsibilities and the powers of
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to provide
an organization fit for t cf ieiont conduct of
the administrevive affsirs under tie jurisdiction
of the Ministry.
Establishment
Article 2
1. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby
established under the pro isions of Article.3.
paragraph 2, cf the Natiorai Government Organi-
zation Law (Law: No. 120, 1948).
2. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be
headed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Missien-of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Article 3
The Ministry of Foreian Atfairs shall be the
Government organ responsibie for the integrated
administration of the following affairs of the
National Government:
C12

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
(1) Planning, formulation and execution
or foreign policies;
(2)
Protection and pronotion of interests
relating to foreign commerce and
Lavigation;
(3)
Dispatch and reception of Diplomatic
Representatives and Consular Officers;
(4)
Conclusicn of trcaties and other
international agreements;
(5)
Participation in intornational organi-
zevi  s snd promotion
of lucernatlshal coopcration;
(6)
Research concerning foreign countries;
(7)
Promotion of international understanding
through the diseemination of information
and sowledge ing to conditions at
home and ata,  through the deve-
lopment of ecucasleral, scientific and
cultural rclations with other countries:
(8)
Protection of Japanese nationals abroad
and ar rnsewent for foreign travels and
emigration;
(9)
Liaison with Allied Authorities and co-
or un ton ar  ustment of such affairs
of vaus arative agencies as
are relating tmereso;
Disposal and over-all adjustment of
matuers relatins to foreign affairs, other
than those melltioned under the preceding
items.
Powers

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affeirs
Article 4
For the purpose of carrying out the responsi-
bilities provided for in this Law, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs shall have the powers as listed
below. Such powers shall, however, be exercised in
accordance with treaties, the established laws
of nations,
and mestic laws (including
orders issued thereundery.
(1) Tomake within the limits of budgetary
appropriations those acts pertaining to
expenditures necessary for carrying out
its responsibilities;
(2) To collect revenues and make payments
necessary for carrying out its respon-
sibilities;
(3) To establish and maintain offices and
other facilities directly required for
oarrying out its responsibilities;
(4) To procure office supplies and other
materials directly required for the
carrying out of iis responsibilities;
(5) To dispose of unnecessary property;
(6) To administer personnel affairs, in-
cluding appointment, dismissal, awards
and discipline;
(7) To establish and maintain facilities re
required for the welfare and health of
personnel;
(8) To build and maintain ouarters to be
rented to personnel;
(9)

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
(9) To distribute or publish documents,
researc'l data and statistics concerning
the affairs under its jurisdiction;
(10) To inspect the affairs under its juris-
diction and to take such measures as may
be required in accordanoe with the
provisions of laws or orders;
(1l) To adopt the official seals of the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs;
(12) To negotiate with foreign Governments and
to participate in international organiza-
tions and conferences representing the
Japanese Government;
(13) To prepare and deliver the full.powers, the
credentials and letters of recall of
Ambassadors and Ministers, and the letters
of commission of Consuls and Honorary Consuls;
(14) To accept the full powers of foreign diplo-
matic representatives, the credentials and
letters of recall of Ambassadors and Mini-
sters of foreign countries, and the letters
of commission of foreign Consuls and Honora-
ry Consuls, and to prepare and deliver the
exequaturs of foreign Consuls;
(15) To conclude, interpret and execute'treaties
and other international agreements and to
dispose of legal matters concerning foreign
relations;
(16) To negotiate with foreign authorities or to
render assistance in commercial transactions
for the purpose of protecting and promoting
interst in commerce and navigation;
(17)

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
(17) To negotiate with foreign authorities, to
conciliute or mediate civil cases which
have arisen between Japanese nationals or
between Japanese us foreign netionals, or
to acceptgand register reports filed in
connection with personel stasus, for the
purpose of protecting the person and
property of Japanese nationals abroad;
(18) To assist and protect and to take other
necessary actions in connection with the
foreign travels and emigration of Japanese
nationals;
(19) To issue and visa passports;
(o) To administer affairs concerning the treat-
ment of foreign nationals, etc. residing in
Japan;
(21) To certify documents issued by Japanese or
foreign authorities with regard to matters
of personal status or other facts having
relations to Japan and a foreign country;
(22) To release to the public, matters concerning
foreign relations;
(23) To make recommendation with regard to the
award of honors to foreianers and to Japanese
nationals residing in foreign countries;
(24) To give permission or approval to incor-
porated associations or incorporated founda-
tions under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs;
(25) To take necessary actions with regard to the
liquidation of public and private Japanese
property and liabilities, enterprises and
other establishments in Korea, Formosa,
Saghalien, Kwantung Province, the South Sea
Islands and other areas;
(26)

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
(26) To administer affairs concerning the re-
patriation of Japanece nationals;
(27) To order agencies of the Netional Government
or of the lodal public bodies for investi-
gation reports and submission of data necescary
in executing the affairs under the juris-
diction of the Ministry.
(28) In addition to those listed in the preceding
items, such powers as are placed under the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs by law (including
orders issued thereunder) or necessary for
implementing treaties or the established laws
ofnations.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
Chapter II Phe Ministry Proper
Section 1
Internal Subdivisions
Internal Subdivisions
Article 5
1. The Ministry proper shall have the Minister's
Secretariat and the following five bureaus:
Bureau of Political Affairs
Bureau of Treaties
Bureau of Research
Bureau of Controls
Bureau of Liaison.
2. The Bureau of Political Affairs shall have a
Public Information Division.
Functions of Minister's Secretariat
Article 6
The Minister's Secretariat shall, in conneotion
with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, take charge of the following affairs:
(1) Confidential matters;
(2)
Classirication, appointment and dismis-
sal of personnel, their status, dis-
ciplinary punishment, performance of
duty and other personnel affairs; also,
their instruction and . training;
(3)

=== Page 42 === (confidence 1.00)
(3)
Custody of the Minister's and the
Ministry's official seals;
(4)
Certification of documents:
(5)
Receipt, dispatch, compilation and
custody of official documents (ex-
cluding correspondence with Aliied
Authorities) and telegrams;
(6)
Custody of the texts of treaties and
other diplomatic documents:
(7)
Compilation of historical date on
foreign relations;
(8)
Translation:
(9)
Budget estimates for expenditures and
revenues, settlement of accounts,
accounts and account audit:
(10)
Control of state properties;
(11)
Health, medical treatment and other
welfare measures for personnel;
(12)
Custody of books and compilation of
statistics;
(13)
Dispatch and reception of Diploma-
tic Representatives and Consular Orficers an
other affairs concerning protocol;
(14)

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
- 10 -
(14)
Intermediation of awarding of honors
to foreign nationals and of receiving
foreign orders of merit or medals for
Japanese nationals.
Tu ions of the Bureau of Political Affairs
Article 7
he Rureau of Political Affairs shall take charge
of ie following affairs:
(1) Disposal of political affairs concerning
foreign countries;
(2)
Protection and promotion of interests
relating to foreign commerce and navi-
gation:
(3)
Cooperation with international economio
orgenizations and metters concerning
treaties of commence and navigation and
other commercial and economic agree-
ment:
(4)
Survey of the international economic
condition and compilation of statistics.
and collection of data concerning
international economy;
(5)
Promotion of educational, scientifio and
cultural intercourse with various
countries and cooperation with inter-
national cultural organizations;
(6)
Japanese and foreign press reports and
dissemination or infornation and know-
ledge on the international situation;
(7)

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
(7) Collection and study of doouments and
records concerning the oooupation and
control of Japan by the Allied Powers;
(8) Examination of draft bills and orders;
(9)
Inspection of administration under the
Ministry;
(10)
Coordination and adjustment concerning-
administration under the Ministry:
(11)
In addition to the affairs listed in
the preceding items, such responsibilitio
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as
are not in the charge of other bureaus.
2. The Public Information Division shall take
oharge of the affairs listed in items (5) and (6) of
the preceding paragraph.
Functions of the Bureau of Treatie?
Article 8
The Bureau of Treaties shall take charge of the
following affairs:
(1) Conclusion of treaties and other inter-
national agreements;
(2)
Matters of internationel law and legal
matters concerning foraign relations;
(3)
Participation in intermational organi-
zations and conference3 and matters of
international adminisuration;
Funotions

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Functions of the Bureau of Research
Article 9
1he Bureau of Reaearch shall take charge of the
following effairs:
(1) Research concerning the trend of international
relstions ani the activities of international
orgenizations:
(2) Rescarch concerning political and economic
situations and foreign relations of various
countries;
(3) Collection and filing of date concerning the
affairs listed in the nreceding two items.
Functio..s of the Bureau of Controls
Article 10,
The Bureau of Controls shall take charge of the
following affairs:
(1) Protection of the person and property of
Japanese nationals abroad and matters of their
personal status;
(2) Foreign travels and emigration:
(3) Issue and visa of passports.
(4) Matters concerning the treatment and repatria-
tion of foreign tionals, etc. residing in
Japan:
(5) Settlement of matters relating to Korea,
Formosa, Sughalien, Kwantung Province, the South
Sea Islands and otherareas;
(6)

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
- 13 -
1
(6) Matters concerning public and private Japanese
property, liabilities and enterprises (includ-
ing closed institutions):
(7) Repatriation of Japanese nationals.
Functions of the Bureau of Liaison
Article 1
The bur-au of Licis nall take charge of the
following affairs:
(1) Corespondence and other matters of
liaison with Allied Authorities:
(2)
Aujustment of such affairs of various administ-
rative agencies as are relating to lisison
with Allied Authorities:
(3)
Investigation and report as demanded by Allied
huthorities:
(4)
Matters concerning trials by military courts
of the Allied Powers:
(5)
Matters concerning Llaison and Coordination
Office.
Suction 2 Auxiliary Organs
Auxiliary Organs
Article 12
TBe
The

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
- 14 -
The Ministry proper shsll have the follow-
ing auxiliery orgens:
Foreign Service Treining Institut
Centrel Lieison Committee
'creign Serv i ce Treining Institute
ARticle 13
1. The Foreign service Training Institute shell
be an orgen which provides personnel of the Ministry
of Foreien Affeirs with necessery treining for service
cs diplometic or consuler officiels.
2. The Foreign Cervice Treining Institute shall
be esteblish ed in Tokyo-to.
3. The Foreign Service Training Institute snall
be headed by a Director.
4. The Director shell edainister the affeirs of
the Institute.
5. Necessary netters coneerning the Foreign
Sorvice Treining Institute shell be provided for by
finis try of Foreign Affairs Ordinance.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Ce. tral Liaison Committee
Article 14
1. The Central Liaison Committee shall be an organ
fo. the consultation of the various administrative agen-
cies concerred for the purpose of maintaing close contact
ith regard to their affairs relating to liaison with
: Llied Authorities.
2. The organization, responsibilities, members
and other personnel of the Central Liaison Committee
hall be provided for by Cabinet Order.
Section 3
Local Branch Offices
2cal Branch Offices
Article 15
The Ministry proper shall have Liaison and
Coordination Offices as its local branch offices.
Lesponsibilities
Article 16
1. The Liaison and Coordination Offices shall
ke charge of a part of the responsibilities of the
Ministry proper as follows:
(1) Affairs listed in items 1 to 4 of Article
11;
(2) Collection of documents and records
concerning the occupation and control of
Japan by the Allied Powers;
(3) Investigatfon concerning repatriation,
and matters concerning the issue of
passports;
(4)

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
(4) Dissemination of kncwledge on the inter-
national situation, etc.
2. In addition to the affairs mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, the Liaison and Coordination Ofri-
ces shall take charge of a part of the affairs under
the jurisdiction of the Reparations Board.
3. The heads of the Liaison and Coordimation
Offices shall be subject to the direetion and supervim
sion of the Director of the Reparations Board with
regard to the affairs mentioned in the preceding pare-
graph.
Hames. Locations and Areas_of Jurisd:ction
article 17
The names of Liaison and Cocrdination Offices
and their locatfons shall be as listed below, and their
areas of jurisdiction shall as a rule conform to those
of the Allied Authorities corresponding to the res-
pective Liaison and Coordination Offices.
Location
Hame
Yokohama Liaison and Coordination Office Yokohama Chy
Hokkeido Liaison and Coordination Office Sapporo City
Tohoku Liaison and Coordination Office
Sendai City
Yokosuke Liaison and Coordination Office Yokosuke City
Tokai-Hokuriku Liaison and Cocrdination Nagoye City
office
Kyoto Liaison and Coordination Office
Kyoto qity

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
:-17-
Kinki Liaison and Ccordin tion Office
Osaka City
Kobe Liaison and Ccordinetion Office
Kobe City
Chugcku Liaison and Coordinaticn Office
Kure City.
Shikoku Liaison and Cecrdinaticn Office
Takamatsu
City
Kyushu Liaison and Coordination Office
Fukuoka City
Internal Sutdivisions
Article 18
necessary, set up not more than three division as
provided for by Ministry of Foreign Affairs Orinance.
Auxiliary Organ
Article 19
1. A Liaison end Coordination Ofice may set up
a Local Liaison Ccmmittee as its auxiiiary organ.
2. The Local Liaison Committee shall be an organ
for the consultation of the various administrative agen-
cies concerned for the purpose of mcintainingclose contact.
with regard tc their affairs relating to liaison with
the Allied Authorities corresponding to the respective
Liaison and Cocrdination Office.
3. The organization, respcnsibilities, members
and other personnel of the au..iliur o gan mentioned
in the preceding paragraph shai! be provided for by
Cabinet Order.
Chapter III

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
- 18 -
Chapter III Diplomatic and Consular
Establishments Abroad.
Diplomatic and Consular
Establishments Abrond.
Article 20
The diplomatic and consular establishments abroed
shall be under the control of the Minister for For-
eign Affairs, carry out in foreign countries the
responsibilities of the Ministry proper and exercise
their powers in accordance with treaties, the esta-
olished laws of nations and domestic laws (includ-
ing orders issued thereunder).
Article 21
The appointment and dismissal or an Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary and an Emvoy Extra-
ordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary shall require
the attestation of the Emperor.
Article 22
In addition to the provisions of the preceding :;
two Articles, the laws and orders existing heretoforc
shall be applicable to the diplonatic and consular
estaplishments abroad, unless otherwise provided for
by law or Cabinet Order.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
19
Chapter IV Personnel
Personnel
Article 23
With respect to appointment, dismissal, promo-
tion, discinlinery punishment and other matters
concerning personnel adm:nistration of the
!inistry of Foreign Affairs, the provisions of
the National Public Service Law (Law No. 120,
1947) sha11 apply.
Fixed Number
Article 24
The fixed number of personnel for the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs shall be provided for by law
separstely.
Supplementary Provisions
1. This Law shall come into force as from
June 1, 1949.
.2.
Thefoilowing Imperial Ordinances and
Law shall-be abolished. However, unless
otherrise provided for by law (including
orders issued thereunder), the oreens.
existing heretofore and personnel there-
of shall become the corresponding orgens
and oersonnel under this Law and shall
retain their respective identitites.
Regulations governing the Organiza-
tion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
(Imperial Ordinance No. 258, 1898)
Temporary Appointment of Diplomstic
Advisers to the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs (Imperial Ordinance No. 632,
1938).

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.95)
m
-20-
Liaison and Coordination Office Tempo-
rary Establishment Law (Law No. 4, 1948)
Enforcentn Order for Liaison and Coordi-
nation Temporary Establishment Law (Ca-
binet Order No. 22, 1948)
3. The provisions of the provise in the precediug
paragraph shail not offect the application of the
provisions of the law concerning the fixed number
of personnel.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.93)
NCOMING AIRGRAM
: DEPARTMENT, QF STATE D
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
EDIVISION OF
Action Taken
NORTHEAST/ASIAN/AFFAIRS
MAY 3 11949
-837
Date of Action
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
L.D. Tokyo
MWB
Name of Officer
Debe of
ilin
1949
Direction to DC/R
Rec'd:
MAY01949 955A11
3
Office 01
4
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ACTION:
MAY 3 1 1949
PE
Secret uy of state.
INFO:
DIRECTOR
Departmout of State
DC/R
wechio ton.
P
894.021/
POS
-121 y 5,1949.
OLI
CIA
The   nese  inistry of Poreien Affes s anmounoed
on 1ay 24, 19 9, thut seven women eelogeer of the
inis try have been selected to enter the treign Service
Training I stitute on June 1. The seven esrdidates
for the Foreirn Service are:
5
Miss TInc Mazuko, 38, sraduate of Tsude Enplish College
iss Yonnk URn Kezuko, 40, gradu te of the Tokyo
2549
Jissei Sirls' ligh Sehoel.
Liss Tnde Sumiko, 33, creducte of  Tsuda English
colloge
Miss OIas Haruko, BS, cradua te of the suda snglish
coilege
Liss r atsuko, S4, graduate of th Japan omen's
University
Liss J0 n Yoshi, 34, greduate of the Lobe Jomen'
College
iss HIkucur Teruko, 36, raduate of e Futabe
Girls' High School
Liss KoNDo Tsuruyo, Parliamentury Vice Foreign
Linister has been instrumental in advancing plans for the
FILET
2
HUSTON
1949
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
UNSpin ks: mhp

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.97)
OF THE
DIVISOF
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
VORTHEASTASIAN AFFAIRS
JUN201949
No. 368
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, June 9, 1949.
NA
Subject: Establishment and Organization of Japanese Ministiy Afsigned to
Foreign Affairs.
Action Taken
usact
Date of Action
Action Office Symbol NA
The Honorable
La e of officer Mlspr
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
894.021/6-949
I have the honor to report that Mr. Katsumi OHNO, Director of the
Political Affairs Bureau of the Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
called on me on June 1, 1949, to apprise me of the passage by the
Japanese Diet on that date of "the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Estab-
lishment Law" and to explain the organizational plans and activities
now developing under the provisions of that law. (This Mission's
despatches nos. 183 and 266 of March 29 and April 28, 1949, respectively).
Copies of various documents which Mr. Ohno left with me in this connection
are enclosed, as follows:
1402
1. Text of "Ministry of Foreign Affairs Establishment Law",
promulgated June 1, 1949 (four copies only).
2.
Comparison Chart for the Old and New Structure of the
Foreign Office.
3.
Chart and Brief Summary of the New Organization of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
4.
Directive regarding transfer of Central Liaison and
Coordination Office from Prime Minister's Office to
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
5.
Regulation concerning the Organization of the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.
6. Regulation of the Foreign Service Training Institute.
7. Cabinet Order for Central Liaison Committee.
8. Cabinet Order for Local Liaison Committee.
UNCLASSIFIED
The Foreign
JUL 2 0 1949
FILD
DMR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokye's 368
Jume 9, 1949.
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
The Fereigm Ministry as newly established will cemprise a Socretariat,
five Bureaus and one Division, a total of twenty-five Sections, as cem-
pared wdth a Secretariat, five Bureaus and five Divisions, with a total of
thirty-six Sections, as previously organized. The five Bureaus now estab-
lished are the Bureau of Political Affairs (including a Public Information
Division), Bureau of Treaties, Bureau of Research, Bureau of Controls and
Bureau of Liaison. Economic functions are centered in the new Ministry of
International Trade and Industry whichas opened on May 25, 1949, and the
Foreign Ministry has been able to soften the impact of the thirty per cent
cut in its personnel, directed by the Cabinet on February 25, 1949, by
transferrins some sixty-five of its officials to this new Ministry.
Mr. Ohno informed me that the total Foreign Office personnel at the
present time is 1,536, including 450 persons of officer status (almost
400 in the Foreign Office and 65 in the Ministry of International Trade).
Although no women have yet qualified for the Foreign Service, seven women
have recently entered the Foreign Service Training Institute under the
sponsorship of Miss Tsuruyo KONDO, Parliamentary Vice Minister for Foreign
Affairs, in the expectation that they will eventually become eliible to
take the Foreign Service examinations. (This Mission's airgram no. A-125
of May 25, 1949).
Under existing legislation, the National Personnel Authority has
jurisdiction under the National Public Service Law over the holding of
examinations for recruitment into the Government Service, no exception
having so far been made for the Foreign Service. Mr. Ohno states that
Prime Minister YOSHIDA, who is also Minister for Foreign Affairs, is anxdous
to bring about an arrangement whereby the Foreign Service examination may be
held under the auspices of the Foreign Office. Mr. Yoshida expects to have
appropriate legislation introduced in the Diet at the next session, presum-
ably in August or September, and is meanwhile desirous of reaching an agree-
with the National Personnel Authority whereby preparations may be made for
such examinations to be conducted by the Foreign Office in order that candi-
dates may be examined by the end of the calendar year.
In the first press interview which he has held in his capacity as
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Yoshida stressed Japan's need to have trade
representatives stationed abroad, adding that the Government is training
prospective trade commissioners at the Foreign Service Training Institute.
He also took occasion to reiterate his previously expressed hope that a peace
conference will be held in the near future and confirmed earlier impressions
that he would weloome an opportunity to visit the United States by saying
that he did "not lack the desire" for suoh a visit and that he "would also
like to round out opinion abroad since Japan has no diplomatic organ at
present".
Respeotfully yours,
Cloyob K. Huston.
Chargs d'Asfaires ad interim

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
Bokyo' 368
June 9, 1949
-3-
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosures (8):
1. Four Copies of Text of TMinistry of Foreign
Affairs Establishment Law".
2. Copy of Comparison Chart for the Old and New
Structure of the Foreign Office.
3. Copy of Chart and Brief Summary of the New
Organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Af-
fairs.
4. Copy of Directive regarding transfer of Central
Liaison and Coordination Office from Prime
Minister's Office to lfinistry of Foreign Af-
fairs.
5. Regulation concerning the Organization of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. (Copy)
6. Copy of Regulation of the Foreign Service
Training Institute.
7. Copy of Cabinet Order for Central Liaison Com-
mittee.
8. Copy of Cabinet Order for Local Liaison Com-
mittee.
361.2
CKHuston:cs
Parchment Mat to Department.
Rrm
2
UNCLASSIPTED

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
"Establishment 
Ministry of Ferei
(Copy)
Comparison Chart for Old and New
Structure of the Foreign Office
Old Structure:
New Structure:
1 Secretariat, 5 Bureaus
1 Secretariat, 5 Bureaus
and 5 Divisions.
and 1 Division
(36 Sections)
(25 Sections)
Personnel Section
(Personnel Section
Secretariat
Account Section
Secretariat
(Account Section
Archives Section
Archives Section
(Welfare Section
General
(General Affairs
Bureau of
(General Affairs
Affairs
Section
Political
Section
Bureau
Political Affairs
Affairs
Political Affairs
Section
Section
Economic Affairs
Economic Affairs
Section
Section
(Special Records
Section
Public In-
(Press
(Press Unit
formation
Section (Foreign Press
Division
(Unit
Cultural Section
(Treaties Section
(Treaties Section
Treaties.
(Legal Section
Bureau of
Legal Section
Bureau
International
Treaties
International
(Corporation Section
Coeporation
Section
(First Section
(First Section
Research
Second Seotion
Bureau of
Second Seotion
Bureau
(Third Section
Research
Third Section
(Fourth Section
(Fourth Seotion
(Fifth Section

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
Emol. No.2 to
Tekyo's 366
Jume.9,1949
UNCLASSIVIED
-2-
(General Affairs Section
(General Affairs
Overseas Japanese
Bureau
Section
Control
Section
of
(General Affairs
Bureau
Repabriation and Passport
Controls
(Unit
Section
(Economic Affairs
(Economic Affairs Section
(Unit
(Overseas Japanese
Section
Repatriation and
Passport Seotion
(Press Section
Public
(Foreign Relations
Relations(
Section
Division (Cultural Section
Division
of
First Section
Special
Records
(Second Section
Civil
(First Section
Property
Second Section
Bureau
Third Section
(Fourth Section
(lst Division (Geneval Affairs
Section
(Coordination Section
Liaison Section
Legislative Affairs
(Local Affairs
Section
Central
Section
Bureau
Local Affairs Section
Liaison
of
Liaison Section
and Co-
2nd Division (Coordination
Liaison
Criminal Investigation
ordina-
Seotion
(Seotion
tion
Political and
Office
Economic Af-
fairs Section
3rd Division
(Administrative Af-
fairs Section
War Crimes Section
(Prosecution
Investigation
Section

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
UHCLASSIPTED
Inclesure No. 3 to Despatch No. 36s dated Jum
1949 frem the Umited States Pelitical Adviser
Japan, Tekye, mtitled: "Establishmest and
Organisatien of Japanese Ministry of Pereiga Af-
fairs".
(Copy)
Chart and Brief Summary of the New Organization of the Ministry
of Foredn Affairs
Minister's Secretariat
Personnel Section
l. Classification, appointment
and dismissal, examination
for service, etc. of the
officials and employees
2. Conferment of honor and
other protocol duties.
Archives Section
1. Receipt and dispatch of
official documents and
telegrams, etc.
2. Custody of Ministry's and
Minister's seal.
3. Translation.
Accounts Section
1. Preparation of Budget,
settlement of accounts and
other accountant business.
2. Supervision of
administrative property.
3. Fire protection, guard, ete.
of the Ministry.
Welfare Section
1. Matters relating to the
welfare of the employees
of the Ministry such as
health and quarters.
Planning Board
Deliberation on special
matters especially ordered
by the Minister.
Political Affairs
Gensral Affairs Sec-
1. Disposal of political
Bureau
tion
affairs relating to foreign
countries.
2. Coordination, inspection
and planning concerning the
affairs under the juris-
diction of the Ministry.
3. Study of draft bills and
orders.
UMOLASSTPIED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
Tmsl.no.3 to
Tokyo's. 368
'Jime 9,1949
UNCLASSIFIED
(Copy)
-2-
Political Affairs
Political Affairs Section 1. Study of basic matters con-
Bureau (cont'd)
cerning international
political relations.
2. Liaison with the Diet.
Economic Affairs 3ection
1. Protection and promotion
of trade and navigation.
2. Cooperation with internation-
al economic organs.
3. Research of intemational
economic situation.
Special Records Section
Research on the occupation
and control of Japan by
the Allied Nations.
Political Affairs Bureau, Public Information Division,
Press Section — Press
Unit ---
1. Domestic and foreign press
reports.
- Foreign
Press
Unit ---
2. Announcement on foreign
relation.
3. Dissemination of knowledge
on international situation.
Cultural Section
1. Interchange of culture with
foreign countries.
2. Cooperation with inter-
national cultural organs.
Treaties Section
Conclusion of treaties and
agreaments.
Bureau of Treaties
Legal Section
Study of intemational law
and liaison pertaining to
legal matters.
International Cooperation
Participation into inter-
Seotion
national organ and inter-
national conference
First Section —
General Affairs Unit
Asian Affairs Unit
Seoond Seotion
Research concerning Amerioum
Continent Affairs
of Research
Third Section
Research concerning East
Asian Affairs.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
Beal.No.3 to
Telyo's 368
Jume 9, 1949
UNCLASSIFTED
(Copy)
-3-
Fourth Section
Research concerning West
Asian Affairs.
General Affairs Section
— General Affairs Unit —
concerning general af
of the Bureau; concerning
matters on Korea, Formosa,
Saghalien, Kwantung Province
and South Sea Islands.
— Economic Unit
Overseas Japanese Section
Affairs concerning the
Bureau of Controls
Japanese people and in-
stallation still remaining
in Korea, Formosa, Saghalien,
Kwantung Province, South Sea
Islands and other countries.
Repatriation and Passport
1.
Repatriation of Japanese
Section
national
2. Issuance and visa of passport
Repatriation Research Room
Research of repatriation
Coordination Section
Coordination pertaining to
the Liaison with Allied
Authorities and various ad-
ministrative agencies.
Legislative Affairs Section
Liaison with Allied
Authorities on matters per-.
taining to legislative
affairs.
Bureau of Liaison
Liaison Section
Matters concerning the
documents and correspondence
with the Allied Authorities
Local Section
Matters concerning looal
administration and the
liadson thereof with the
Allied Authorities and also
of Liaison and Coordination
Offices
Criminal Investigation
Matters pertaining to the
Seation.
military court of the Allied
Authorities.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
Emolesure No. 4 to Despatch No. 340
1949 frem the Office of the United Stater
Affairs".
(Copo)
1.
It is hereby informed that the Central Liaison and Coordination
Office, an external organ of the Prime Minister's Office, will be abolished
as from May 3l, and its affairs will be taken over by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, in which a Liaison Bureau will be established principally to be
responsible for such affairs. The Liaison Bureau will consist of five
sections, namely Coordination Section, Legislative Affairs Section, Liaison
Section, Local Affairs Section and Criminal Investigation Section.
2. Some of the local offices of the Liaison and Coordination Office will
be abolished. As provided for in Article 17 of the Ministry of Foreign Af-
fairs Establishment Law, which is appended hereto, eleven local offices,
namely, Yokohama, Yokosuka, Tohoku, Hokkaido, Tokai-Holguriku, Kyoto, Kinki,
Kobe, Chugoku, Shikoku, and Kyushu Offices, will be retained, and liaison
officers will be dispatched from the Yokohama Office to the Kanto Military
Government Region. The branch offices at Oita, Kumamoto, Kokura, and
Kagoshima and the resident officers at Yamaguchi, Matsue, Tottori, Okayams,
Kanasawe and Toyama will be abolished as from May 3l. The responsibilities
of the local Liaison and Coordination Offices will be the same as heretofore.
3. The official letters of the Japanese Government addressed to the
Occupation Authorities, whioh have been given a CLCO file number and signed
either by the Director General or by a responsible officer for the Director
Generel, will be given a Fom file mumber and signed either by the Minister
of Foreign Affairs or a responsible offioer of the Ministry for the Minister
of Foreign Affaire on and after June 1.
4.It is requested that the above information be tranemitted to GHQ
Seotions and Divisione concerned.

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclesure No. 5 to Despatch No. 36€ da
UNCLASSIFIED
June 9, 1949 frem the Office of the U.B.
Pelitical Adviser fer Japan, Tekye, emtitled:
"Establishment and Organisatien ef Japamese
Ministry of Foreign Affairs"
(Copy)
Ministry of Foreign Affairs Order No._4
1949.
In order to enforce the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Establishment Law (Law No.__ of 1949), the Regulation
concerning the Organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
is hereby established.
Shigeru Yoshida,
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
UNCLASSIFTED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.97)
mal.No.5 to
Tekjo's 368
Jume 9, 1949
UNCLASSIFIED
(Copy)
The Regulation concerning the Organization of
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Chapter l. Internal Subdivisions
(Minister's Secretariat)
Article l. There shall be in the Minister's Secretariat the Personnel
Section, Archives Section, Accounts Section, Velfare Section
and Planming Board.
Article 2. The Personnel Section shall take charge of the affairs
pertaining to:
1. Classification, appointment, dismissal, status, discipline,
education, training and other personnel matters of officials
and employees of the Ministry;
2. Examination for appointing officials for service;
3. Acceptance and dispatch of diplomatic and consular officers
and other matters of protocol;
4. Conferment of honor and prise;
5. To render good offices to the conferment of honor to
foreigners and to Japanese in receiving foreign decorations
and modals;
6. Pensions.
Artiele 3. The Arohivei Section shall take charge of affairs of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs pertaining tor
1. Receipt, dispatch, compilation and custody of official
doouments;

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmel.No.5 to
Tekye's 368
Jume 9, 1949
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
2. Custody of Minister's and Ministry's seal;
3. Attestation of documents;
4. Custody of treaty and diplomatic documents;
5. Compilation of diplomatic documents;
6. Translation;
7. Custody of books;
8. Statistical reports and compilation of entries for
the official gazette.
Article 4. The Accounts Section shall take charge of affairs pertaining
to:
1. The preparation of budgets, settlement of accounts,
other accountant business and the supervision of accounts;
2. Control and custody of adninistrative property and
articles;
3. Fire-protection, guard, etc. of the Ministry.
Article 5. The Welfare Section shall take charge of the affairs pertain-
ing to:
1. National Public Service Mutual Aid Association;
2. Establishment and Custody of necessary facilities for
health and welfare of employees;
3. Establishment and custody of quarters which shall be
rented to employees;
4. Other matters concerning the assistance and welfare of
mployees.
Artiele 6. The Planming Board shall deliberate on matters specially
ardered and shall forward its opinion.
(Baireeu of Political Affairs)

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
Emel. No.5 to
Tokjo's 368
Jume 9, 1949
-3-
UNCLASSIFIED
Article 7. There shall be in the Bureau of Political Affairs General
Affairs Section, Political Affairs Section, Economic Affairs
Section and Special Records Section.
Article 8. The Genoral Affairs Section shall take charge of the following
matters:
1. Disposal of political affairs concerning foreign
countries;
2. Over-all coordination and planning of the administrative
affairs under the jurisdiction of the Ministry;
3. Examination of draft bills and orders;
4. Examination and study of the administration under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry;
5. Such affairs as do not come within the jurisdiction of
other bureaus and sections.
Artiele 9. The Political Affairs Section shall take charge of the
following matters:
1. Planning and formulation of foreign policy and the
necessary research thereof;
2. Liaison with the National Diet.
Article l0. The Economic Affairs Section shall take charge of the
following matters:
1. Proteotion and promotion of interests concerning
intemational trade and navigation;
2. Cooperation with international eoonomio organs,
treeties conoerning international trade and navigation
as well .as. other agrements on international trade and

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Incl.No.5 to
Tekye's 368
Jume 9, 1949
-4-
UNCLASSIFIED
3. Research of international economic situation,
compilation of statistics ani materials on international
econamy.
Article ll. The Special Records Section shall take charge of matters
pertaining to gathering, compilating and studying of the documents
and records concerning the occupation of Japan by the Allied Powers.
Article 12. There shall be in the Public Information Division Press
Section and Cultural Section.
Article 13. The Press Section shall take charge of matters pertaining to
press dispatches and reports, both foreign and domest ic, announc
ments concerning foreign relations and dissemination of information
and knowledge on international affairs.
Article 14. The Cultural Section shall take charge of matters pertaining
to interchange of culture with various countries and cooperation
with international cultural organs.
(Bureau of Treaties)
Article 15. There shall be in the Hureau of Treaties, Treaties Section,
Legal Section and International Cooperation Section.
Artiole 16. The Troaties Section shall take charge of matters pertaining
to conclusion of treaties and other international agreements.
Artiole 17. The Legal Section shall take charge of matters pertaining
to international law and legal liaison.
Artiole 18. The International Cooperation Section shall take charge of
matters pertaining to the participation in international organs
and conferences and concerning international administration.
(Bureau of Researoh)
Artiele 19. There shall be in the Bureau of Research, First Section,
Secend Seetiom, Third Seotion and Fourth Section.
Artiale 20

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
Encl.No. 5 to
Tokye's 368
Jume 9, 1949.
UNCLASSIFIED
-5-
Article 20. The First Section shall take charge of matters pertaining
to over-all coordination within the Research Bureau and research
of Asian affairs.
Article 2l. The Second Section shall take charge of research concerning
American Continents.
Article 22. The Third Section shall take charge of research in respect
to Eastern Europe.
Article 23. The Fourth Section shall take charge of research in respect
to Western Europe.
(Bureau of Controls)
Article 24. There shall be in the Bureau of Controls General Affairs
Section, Overseas Japanese Section, Repatriation and Passport
Section, and Repatriation Research Room.
Artiole 25. 1. The General Affairs Section shall take charge of the
affairs concerning Korea, Formosa, Saghalien, Kwantung
Province, South Sea Islands and other areas;
2. Matters pertaining to enterprises (including those of
closed institutions) and liabilities of public and private
properties of Japan in the areas stipulated in the preceding
paragraph;
3. Treatment of foreign nationals in Japan;
4. Affairs which do not come within the jurisdiction of
other seotions.
Article 26. The Overseas Japanese Section shall take charge of affairs
concerning protection of person and property as well as status of
Japanese in overseas area.
Artiale 27
UNCLASSTPEED

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
Meel.No.5 to
Tekgo's 368
Jume 9, 1949
UISCLASSIFIED
-6
Article 27. The Repatriation and Passport Section shall take charge of
matters pertaining to:
1. Overseas travel and emigration;
2. Issuance of passport and its visa;
3. Treatment and repatriation of foreign nationals etc.
residing in Japan;
4. Repatriation of Japanese Nationals;
5. Repatriation Liaison Offices.
Article 28. There shall be Repatriation Research Room in the Bureau of
Controls. Repatriation Research Room shall take charge of matters
pertaining to research of unrepatriated Japanese in the
overseas area.
(Bureau of Liaison)
Artiole 29. There shall be in the Bureau of Liaison, Coordination
Seotion, Legislative Affairs Section, Liaison Section, Local
Affairs Section, Criminal Investigation Section and Japanese
Liaison Room with the Allied Headquarters.
Article 30. The Coordination Section shall take charge of coordination
of such affairs of various administrative agencies as are relating
to liaison with Allied Authorities and shall also attend to over
all coordination within the Bureau.
Artiole 3l. The Legislative Affairs Section shall take charge of Liaison
with Allied Authorities on matters concerning laws and orders.
Artiele 32. The Liaison Section shall take charge of correspondence and
other matters of liaison with Allied Authorities.
Artiele 33. The Local Affairs Seotion shall take charge of matters con-
serning liatson with Allied Authorities on local administration
and ef affaire pertaining to Coordination and Liaison Office

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.96)
ml.No.5 to
Tekye'e 368
Ju 9, 1949
UMCLASSIPTED
-7-
Article 34. The Criminal Investigation Section shall take charge of
matters concerning trials by military courts of the Allied Powers.
Article 35. The Japanese Liaison Room of the General Headquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, shall be constantly
stationed at the Allied Headquarters and shall look after part of
the business of the Bureau of Liaison.
Chapter 2. Awxiliary Organ
Foreign Service Training In titute.
Artiole 36. The details of internal structure of the Foreign Service
Training Institute shall be separately provided by the Foreign
Minister.
Chapter 3. Local Branch Offices.
Article 37. The details of the Internal organization of the Liaison and
Coordination Offices shall be separately established by the Foreign
Minister.
Supplementary Provisions
This Ministry Order shall come into effect as from the day of its
promulgation.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 6 to Despatch No.36e dated
June 9, 1949 from the Office of the United
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo,
entitled: "Establishment and Orgamisatiom
of Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs".
(Copy)
Ministry of Foreign Affairs Order No. 5.
May
1949.
In order to enforce the lfinistry of Forein Affairs Establishment
Law (Law No.  of 1949), the Regulation of the Forein Service
Training Institute is hereby established.
Shigeru Yoshida,
Minister for Foreign Affairs.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmal. No.6 to
Tekyo's 368,
Jume 9, 1949
(Copy)
UNCLASSIFIED
Ministry of Foreign Affairs Order No. 5
The Regulation of the Foreign Service
Training Institute (Draft)
(May 25, 1949.)
In accordance with Article 13, paragraph 5 of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs Establishnent Law, the Foreign Service Training Institute
is hereby established.
(Responsibilities)
Article 1. (1) The Foreign Service Training Institute shall conduct
the training of officials of the Foreign Ministry to on-
able them to acquire necessary knowledge and ability and
shall also carry out the study and collection of materials
on diplomacy.
(2) Whenever necessary, Officials of other government
agencies and persons from civilian circle may also be
authorized to participate in the study at the Foreign
Service Training Institute.
(Organisation)
Article 2. There shall be in the Foreign Service Training Institute
President, faculty and staff members.
The President shall be appointed by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs from mong the officials in the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs.
Those who are pursuing their studies in the Foreigm
Service Training Institute shall be called research
students and shall be appointed by the Minister for Foreige
Affairs.
Artiole 3. The President shall supervise the operation of the Institute
under the direction of the Minister for Foreigm Affairs.
Artiele 4. The faculty and staff members shall take charge of the
operation of the Institute under the direction of the
President.
Artiole 5. (1) There shall be deams in each division to carry eut the
traiming of the researoh students.
(2) Deputy deams shall assist the deam.
(3) Deans and deputy deans shall be appointed frem mong
the steff membere by the Minister for Ferelge Affaire.

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
mol. No. 6 to
Tokye's 368,
.Jume 9, 1949
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
(Copy)
Article 6. (1) There shall be in the Foreign Service Training Institute
one managing director, one assistant dean, one executive
secretary and one business secretary.
(2) Managing Director, assistant dean, executive secretary,
and business secretary shall be appointed by the Minister for
Foreign Affairs.
(3) Managing director shall attend to the general affairs of
the Institute and shall act for the President in case of lat-
ters unavoidable circumstances.
(4) Assistant dean shall look after matters concerning re-
search by order of superior officer.
(5) Executive secretary shall look after matters concerning
education and training by order of superior officer.
(6) Business secretary shall look after accounts and general
clerical matters by order of superior officer.
Article 7. Except under special circumstances, the President faculty and
staff members and research students shall not engage in any
duties other than those of the Institute.
Article 8. (1) Advisers may be appointed to the Institute.
(2) They shall be nominated by the Minister for Foreign
Affairs from among those who are experienced in diplemacy.
(3) Advisers shall respond to the consultation by the
President.
Article 9.
(1) Several councillors may be appointed to the Institute.
They shall be appointed or designated by the Minister fer
Foreign Affairs.
(2) Councillors shall participate in the affairs of the
Institute.
(Training and Study)
Artiole 10. The researah students shall devete themselves te training and
study wnder the directien of the President and Deam.
Artiole ll. (1) There shall be four divisioms in the Institute.
(2) Divisien may be divided inte uxits whemever mecessary.
(3) When a mecessity arises by paragraph 2 of Article 1 to
establish am independent class, a fifth divisien shall be
created.
Artiole 12.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
1..6 to
Tokyo's 368,
Ju 9, 1949
-3-
UNCLASSTPTED
(Copy)
Article 12. The first division shall train officials •f secend class,
the secend divisien shall be fer the newly appeimted
efficials whe have passed the diplematic and cemsular
examimation, the third division shall be fer officials
of third class, and the fourth division shall be for
those who require special training.
Article 13. Training and study shall be divided into lecture and
exercise, study by observation and actual practice.
Article 14.
Lectures and lessons at the Institute may be given by
faculty members and by officials of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, and also by persons of erudition and
experience outside of the Ministry.
Supplementary Provision:
(1) This Ministry order shall come into force from the
day of its promulgation.
(2) The Regulation of the Foreign Service Training
Institute (Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ordinance No. 4
of 1947) shall be abolished.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 7 to Despst oh No. 3
June 9, 1949, from the Office of the U
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokye
entitled: "Establishment and Organisasid
of Japanese Ministry of Foreim Affairs.
(Copy)
Cabinet Order No.
Cabinet Order for Central Liaison Committee
In accordance with the provision of Article 14, paragraph 2 of the
Ninistry of Foreign Affairs Establishment Law (Law No.__ of 1949),
the Cabinet establishes this Cabinet Order.
(Responsibilities)
Article 1.
i. The Central Liaison Committee (hereunder called Committee) shall
deliberate on necessary matters of the various adninistrative agencies for
the purpose of maintaining close contact with regard to their affairs re
lating to liaison with Allied Authorities.
ii. The Liaison and Coordination Office where the Liaison Committee
will be established shall be determined by the Foreign Minister:
(Organization)
Article 2.
The Committee shall be comprised of Vice Minister for Foreign Affaire,
Director of the Bureau of Liaison of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
members numbering within thirty persons.
Article 3.
1. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Foreign
Minister from the personnel of the various administrative agencies concerned.
ii. The members shall not work on full-time basis.
Artiale 4.
i. Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs shall be the Chairman of the Com-
mattee and shall supervise its affair

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Emer. no. 7 to
Tokyo's 368
Jume 9, 1949.
-2-
(Copy)
ii. The Director of the Bureau of Liaison, Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
shall be the Vice Chairman and shall assist the Chairman. The Vice Chairman
shall act for the Chairman in case of latter's unavoidable circumstances.
iii. In case of unavoidable circumstances on the part of Chairman and
Vice Chairman, the former shall appoint a member beforehand to act for the
Chairman.
(General Clerical Matters)
Article 5.
The general clerical matters of the Committee shall be disposed by the
Bureau of Liaison of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Article 6.
Aside from the provisions of the preceding articles, the Chairman shall
decide the agenda of the Committee, its procedure and other necessary matters.
Supplementary Provision:
This Cabinet Order shall come into force as from the day of its promul-
gation.
Reason
In accordance with Article 14, paragraph 2 of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs Establishment Law, it is necessary to provide for the responsibilities,
organisation and the method of operating the Central Liaison Committee.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Enclosure No. 8 to Despatch No. 368 dated
1949 from the Office of the United States
Affairs".
(Copy)
Cabinet Order No.
Cabinet Order for the Local Liaison Committee
In accordance with the provision of Article 19, paragraph 3 of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs Establishment Law (Law No.__of 1949),
the Cabinet establishes this Cabinet Order.
(Responsibilities)
Article 1.
The Local Liaison Committee (hereunder called Committee) shall
deliberate on necessary matters of the various administrative agencies for
the purpose of maintaining close contact with regard to their affairs re-
lating to liaison with Allied Authorities and the corresponding Liaison
and Coordination Office.
Article 2.
The Committee shall be comprised of Director of Liaison and Coordination
Office and members numbering within 30 persons.
Artiole 3.
i. The members of the Committee shall be appointed by the Foreign
Minister from the personnel of the various administrative agencies cancerned.
ii. The members shall not work on full-time basis.
Article 4.
i. The Director of the Liaison and Coordination Office shall be the
Chairman of the Committee and supervise its affairs.
ii. In case of wmaveidable ciroumstances on the part of the Chairmam,
amember shall be appointed beferehand to act for the Chairman.
(Searetarx)

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.96)
. mm. e to
Tokyo's 368,
Juma 9, 1949.
-2-
UNCLASSIFIED
(Copy)
(Secretary)
Article 5.
i. Secretary may be appointed in the Committee.
ii. Secretary shall be appointed by the Foreign Minister from the
personnel of administrative agencies concerned.
iii. Secretary shall assist the menbers in disposing the affairs of
the Committee.
iv. Secretary shall not work on full-time basis.
(General Clerical Matters)
Article 6.
General clerical matters shall be disposed by the Liaison and Co-
ordination Office.
(Miscellaneous Provision)
Article 7.
Aside frem the provisions of the preceding articles, the Chairman shall
decide the agenda of the Committee, its procedure and other necessary matters.
Supplementary Provision:
This Cabinet Order shall come into force as from the day of its premul-
gation.
Reason
In accordance with Article 19, paragraph 3 of the Ministry of Fereign
Affairs Establishment Law, it is necessary te provide fer the respensibilities
orgemisatien. and the methed of perating the Local Liaison Cemmittee.
HOLASSTFTED

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
THE MINISTRY OF FCREIGN AFFAIRS
ESTABLISIHMENT LAW

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs Establishment Lew
Contents
Chapter I General Provisions (Articles 1-4)
Chapter II Ministry Proper
Section 1 Internal Subdivisions (Articles 5-11)
Section 2 Auxiliary Crgans (Articles 12-14)
Section'3 Local Tranch Offices (Articles 15-19)
Chapter I'l Diplomatic and Consular Establishments
Abroad (Articles 20-22)
Chapter IV Personnel (Articles 23 and 24)
Supplementary Provisions

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
The Ministry of Foreigm Arfairs Establishment Law
Chapter I
General Frovisions
Purpose of this Law
Article 1
The purpose of this Law is to define clearly
the scope of reeponsihilities and the powers of
the Ministry of foreign Affairs and to provide
an organization fit for the efficient conduct of
the administrative affeirs wrier the jurisdiction
of the Ministry.
Establishment
Articlo 2
1. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby
estahlished under the provisions of Article 3,
paragraph 2, of the National Government Crgani-
zation Law (Law No. 120, 1948).
2. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be
headed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
Mission of the Ministry of Forein Affairs
Article 3
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall be the
Government organ responsible for the integrated
edministration of the following affairs of the
National Government:
(1)

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
(1) Plagning, formulation and execution
of foreign policies;
(2) frotection ani promotion of interests
relating to foreign cummerce and
navigation;
(3)
Dispatch and reception of  iplomatic
Representatives and Consular Officers;
(4)
Conclusion of trsaties and other
international agreements;
(5) Participation in internatioral organi-
zations and conferences and pramotion
of international cooperation;
(6) Research concerning foreign countries;
(7)
Promotion of international understanding
through the dissemination of information
and knowledge relating to conditions at
home and abroad, and through the deve-
lopment of educational, scientific and
cultural relations with other countries;
(8) Pretection of Japanese nationals abread
and arrangement for foreign travels and
emigration;
(9) I
Liaisen with Allied Authorities and over-all ce-
ordination of such affairs of various admini-
strative agencies as are relating therete;
(10) Disposal and ever-all administration of
matters relating to fereign affairs, other
then those mentioned under the preceding
items.
Powers

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
Pewers or tne Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Article 4 .
For the purpose of carrying put the rasponsi-
bilities provided fer in this Law, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs shall have the pewers as listed
below, Such powers shall, however, be exercised in
accerdance with treaties, the established laws
of nations,
and demestic laws (including
orders issued thereunder).
(1) To make within the limits of budgetary
aporopriations those acts pertaining to
expenditures necessary for carrying out
its responsibilities;
(2) To collect revenues and nake payments
necessary fer carrying out its respen-
sibilities;
(3) To establish and maintain offices and
other facilities directly required fer
carrying out its responsibilities;
(4) . To procure office supplies and other
materials directly required for the
carrying out of its responsibilities;
(5) Te dispose of unnecessary preperty;
(6) To administer personnel affairs, in-
cluding appointment, diemissal, awards
and discipline;
(7) To establish and maintain facilities
reruired for the welfare and health of
personnel;
(8)
To build and maintain ouarters tobs
rented to personnel;
(9)

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
(9) Tc distribute er publish documents,
research data and statistics concerning
the affairs under its jurisdiction;
(10) Tc inspect the affairs under its juris-
diction and te take such measures as may
be required in accerdance with the
previsions of laws or erders;
(11)  Tc adept the official seals of the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs;
(12) To negetiate with foreign Gevernments and
to participate in international organiza-
tions and corferences representing the
Japanese Government;
(13)
To prepare and deliver the full powers, the
credentials and letters of recall of
Ambassadors and Ministers, and the letters
of cammissien of Consuls and lionerary Consuls;
(14) To accept the full pewers of foreign dipl
matic representatives, the credentials and
letters of recall of Ámbassadors and Mini-
sters of foreign ceuntries, and the letters
of cermission of foreign Consuls and Honera-
ry Ceneuls, and to preparo and deliver the
exequature of fereign Censuls;
(15) Te conclude, interpret and execute treaties
and other international agreements end to
dispese of legal matters concerning fereign
relations;
(16) To negotiate with fereign autherities or to
render assistance in cemmercial transactions
fer the purpose of pretecting and premeting
interest in ccmmerce and ravigation;
(222

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.98)
-6-
(17) To negotiate vith foreigm authorities, to
conciliate or meciate civil cases which
have arisen hetween Japanese nationals or
between Japanese and fcreign nationals, er
to accept and repister reports filed in
connection with personal status, fer the
purpose of prctecting the peracn and
preperty of Japanese nationals abreed;
(18)
to assist and protect and to take other
necessary actions in connection with the
fereign travels and emigration of Jepanese
natiorals:
(19) T: jssue and visa passports;
(20) To adcinister aifairs concerning the treat-
mert of foreign nationals, etc. residing in
Japan;
(21) Tc certify documents issued by Japanese er
fereign authorities with regard to matters
of personal status or other facts having
relations to Japan apd a foreign country;
(22)
To release te the public, matters concerning
foreign relations;
(23)
To make recomendation with regard to the
award of honers to foreigmers and te Japanese
nationals residing in fereign countries;
(24) To give permission or appreval to incer-
perated asseciations or incorporated founda-
tions under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs;
(25)
Te take necessary actiens with regard te the
liquidation of public and private Japanese
property and liabilities, enterprises and
other establishments in Korea, Feruosa,
Saghalien, Kwantung Prevince, the South Sea
Islands and ether areas;
(26)

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
(26) To administer affairs concorning the re-
patriation of Japanese nationals;
(27)
To obtain frem agencies of the Natienal Government
or of the lecal public bedies fer investigation
reperts and submissien ef data necessary
in executing the arfairs under. the jurisdiction
of the Miristry.
(28)
In addition to those listed in the preceding
items, such pewers as are placed under the
Ministry of Fereign Afrairs by law (including
orders issued thereunder) or necessary fer
implementing treaties or the established laws
of natiens.

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
Chapter II The Ministry Proper
Section 1 Internal Subdivisions
Internal Sutdivisions
Article 5
1. The Ministry preper shall have the Minister's
Secretariat and the following five bureaus:
Bureau of Political Affairs
Bureau of Treaties
Bureau of kesearch
Burèau of Centrols
Bureau of Liaison
2. The Bureau of Political Affairs shall have a
Public Information Division.
Functions of Minister's Secreteriat
Article 6
The Minister's Socretariat shall, in connection
with the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, take charge of the fellowing affairs;
(1) Confidential matters;
(2) Classificatien, appointment and dismis-
sal of persennel, their status, dis-
ciplinary punishment, perfermance of
duty and ether persennel affairs; also,
their instruction and training;
(3)

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
(3) Custody of the Minister's and the
Ministry's official seals;
(4) Certification of decuments;
(5)
Receipt, dispatch, cempilation, and
custedy of officiel documents (ex-
cluding correspondence with Allied
Autherities) and telegrems;
(6) Custody of the texts of treaties and
other diplematic documents;
(7)
Campilasion ef historieal data on
foreigm relations;
(8) Translation;
(9) Budget estimates for expenditures and
revenues, settlement of accounts,
accounts and account audit;
(10) Contrcl of state preperties;
(11)
Health, medical treatment and other
welfare measures fer pereennel;
(12)
Custedy of beoks and compilation of
ststistics;
(13)
Dispatch and reception of Diplema-
tic Representatives and Censular Officers and
other affairs concerping pretocel;
(1)

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
(14) Intermediation of awarding of honors
to foreign nationals and or receiving
foreign orders of merit or medals for
Japanese nationals.
Functions of the Bureau of Political Affairs
Article 7
The Bureau of Political Affairs shall take charge
of the followingaffairs:
(1) Disposal of political affairs concerning
foreign countries:
(2) Protection and promotion of interests
relating to foreign commerce and navi-
gation:
(3) Cooperation with international economic
organizations and matters concerning
treaties of commerce and navigation and
other commerclal and economic agrec-
ment:
(4) Survey of the international economic
condition and compilation of statistics
and collection of dats concerning
international economy:
(5) Promution of educational, scientific and
cultural intercourse with various
countries and cooperation with inter-
national cultural organizations:
(6) Japanese and foreign press reporte, announce-
ment on Foreign relations,dissemination of
information and knowledge on the inter-
national situation:
422

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
(7) Collection and study of documents and
records concerning the occupation and
control of Japan by the Allied Pewers:
(8) Exumination of draft bills and orders:
(9) Inspection of administration under the
Ministry:
(10) Over-all Coordination concerning
administration under the Ministry:
(1l) In addition to the affairs listed in
the preceding items, such responsibilities
of the Ministry of Fereign Affairs as
are net in the charge of other bureaus.
2. The Public Information Division shall take
charge of the affairs listed in items (5) and (6) of
the preceding paragraph.
Functions of the Bureau of Treaties
Article 8
The Bureau of Treaties shall take charge of the
following affairs:
(1) Conclusion •f treaties and other inter-
national agreements:
(2) Matters of international law and legal
matters concerning fereign relations:
(3) Participation in international ergani-
zations and conferences and matters of
international administration:
Punctions

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
Functions of the Bureau ef Research
Article 9
The Bureau of Research shall take charge of the
following effairs:
(1) Research concerning ghe trend of international
relations and the activities of international
organizations:
(2) Research concerning political and ecenomic
situations and foreign relatiens of various
countries:
(3) Collection and filing of data concerning the
affairs listed in the preceding twe items.
Functions of the Bureau of Controls
Article. 10
The Bureau of Controls shall take charge of the
following affairs:
(1) Protection of the person and preperty of
Japanese nationals abread and matters of their
persenal status:
(2) Foreign travels and emigration:
(3) Issue and visa of passports.
tion of fereign nationals, etc. residing in
Japan:
(5) Settlement of matters relating to Kerea,
Formesa, Saghalien, Kwantung Prevince, the South
Sea Islands and other areas:
(0)

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
(6) Matters concerning public and private Japanese
property, liabilities and nterprises (includ-
ing closed institutions):
(7) Repatriation of Japanese nationals.
Functions of the Bureau of Liaison
Article ll
The Bureau of Liaison shall take charge of the
following affairs:
(1) Correspondence and ether matters of
liaison with Allied Authorities:
(2) Coordination of such affairs of varfous administ-
rative agencies as are relating to liaison
with Allied Authorities:
(3) Investigation and report as demanded by Allied
Authorities:
(4) Matters' concerning trials by military courts
of the. Allied Powers:
(5) Matters concerning Liaison and Ceordination
Office.
Section 2 Auxiliary Urgans
Auxiliary Organs
Article 12
The

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
- 14 -
The liinistry proper shall have the follow-
ing suxili&ry organs:
Fereign Service Training Institute
Central Liaisea Committee
Foreign Service Training Institute
Articlo 13
1. The Foreign Service Training Institute ahall
be an organ which prevides persennel of the hinistry
of Foreign Affairs with necessary training fer service
as diplomatic or censular efficials.
2. The Foreign Service Training Institute shall
be establish ed in Tukyo-te.
3. The Foreign Service Training Institute shall
be headed by a Direstor.
4. The Director shall administer the affairs ef
the Institute.
5. Aside from provisions of the preceding items,
Necessary matters concerning the Foreign Service
Training Institute shall be provided fer by Ministry of
Fereign Affairs Ordinance.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
-15-
Central Liaison Committee
Article 14
l. The Central Liaison Cemmittee shall be an'organ
cies concerned for the purpese of maintaing clese contact
with regard to their affairs relating to liaisen with
Allied Authorities.
2. The organization, responsibilities, members
und other personnel of the Central Liaison Committee
shall be privided for by Cabinet Order.
Section 3 Lecal Branch Offices
Local Branch Offices
Article 15
The Ministry proper shall have Liaisen and
Coordination Offices as its local branch offices.
Responsibilities
Article 16
1. The Liaisen and Ceerdination Offices shall
take charge of a part of the responsibilities of the
Ministry preper as follows:
(1) Affairs listed in items 1 to 4 of Article
11:.
(2) Collection of doeuments and recerds
concerning the eccupatien and centrol of
Japan by the Allied Pewers:
(3) Investigatien concerning repatriation;
and matters cencerning the issue. ef
passperts:
(4)

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.98)
-16-
(4) Dissemination of knowledge on the inter-
national situation, etc.
2. In addition te the affairs mentioned in the
preceding paragraph, the Liaisen and Ceerdination Offs-
ces shall take charge of a part of the affairs under
the jurisdiction of the Reparations Agency.
3. The heads of the Liaisen and Coordination
Offices shall be subject te the direction and supervi-
sien of the Director of the Reparatiods Agency with
regard to the affairs wentioned in the preceding pare-
graph.
Names. Locations and Areas of Jurisdiction
Article 17
The names ef Liaisen and Ceordination Orfices
and their lecatiens shall be as listed belew, and their
areas sf jurisdiction shall as a rule cenferm te those
of the Allied Autherities cerrespending te the res-
pective Liaisen and Ceordination Offices.
Name
x:btion
Yokohama Liaisen and Ceerdinatien Office Yokohame City
Hokkaide Liaison and Ceerdination Office Sappare City
Tohoku Liaisen and Ceordiantien Office Sendai City
Yekosuka Liaisen and Ceerdiantion Office Yokesuka City
Tekai-Hekuriku Liaisen and Ceerdinatien Nagoya City
Office
Kyote Liaison and Ceerdination Office . Kyete City

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
-17-
Kinki Liaison and Coordiantion Office
Osaka City
Kobe Liaison and Coordination Office
Kobe City
Chugoku Liaison and Coordiantion Office Kure City
Shikeku Liaison and Ceerdination Uffice Takamatsu
cip
Kyushu Liaison and Ceerdination Crfice
Fukuoka
Internal Suvdivisions
Article 18
A Liaisen and Ceerdination Uffice may, if
necessary, set up met more than three divisions as
provided fer by Ministry of Fereign Affairs Ordinance.
Auxiliary Organ
Article 19
1. A Liaison md Ceordination Üffice may set up
a Local Liaison Committee as its auxiliary organ.
2. The Lecal Liaison Committee shall be an organ
fer the consultation of the various administrative agen-
cies concerned for the purpose of maintaining close contact
with regard te their affairs relating to' liaison with
che Allied Autherities corresponding to the respective
Liaison and Ceerdinatien Office.
3. The organization, respensibilities, members
and other personnel of the auxiliary organ mentiened
in the preceding paragraph shall be provided fer by
Cabinet Order.
Chapter III

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
Chanter III Diplomatic and Consular
Establishments Abroad.
Diplomatic and Consular
Establishments Abroad.
Article 20
The diplomatic and consular establishments abread
shall be under the centrol of the Minister for For-
eign Affairs, carry out in fereign countries the
responsibilities of the Ministry preper and exercise
their pewers inaccerdance with treaties, the esta-
blished laws of nations and demestic laws (includ-
ing orders issued thereunder).
Article 21
The appeintment and dismissal of an ambassador
Extraerainary and Plenipotentiary and an Envey Extra-
crdinary and Minister Plenipotentiary shall require
the attestatien of the Emperor.
Article 22
In addition to the provisions of the preceding
two Articles, the laws and orders existing heretefore
shall be applicable te the diplomatic and consular
establishments absead, unless otherwise provided fer
by law or Cabinet Order.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
Chapter IV Personnel
Personnel
Article 23
With respect to appointment, dianissal, premo-
tien, disciplinary punishment and other matters
cencerning persennel aduinistration of the
Ministry of Foreign-Affairs, the provisions of
the National Public Service Law (Law No. 120,
1947) shall apply.
Fixed Number
Article 24
The fi xed number of persennel for the Ministry
of Foreign A iairs shall be provided fer by law
separately.
Supplementary Provisions
1. This Law shall come into force as from
June 1, 1949,
2.
The following Imperial Ordinances and
Law shall be abolished. However, unless
otherwise provided for ty law (including
orders issued thereunder), the organs
existing heretofore and personnel there-
of shall beceme the cerresponding organs
and persennel under this Law and shall
retain tieir respective identitites.
Regulations governing the Organiz-
ation of the Ministry of Fereign Affairs.
(Imperial Ordinance No. 258, 1898)
Temporary Appointment of Diplomatic
Advisers to the Ministry of Fereign
Affpirs (Imperial Ordinance Nos632,
1938).

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
-20 -
Liaison and Coordinetion Office Tempo-
rary Establishment Law (Law No. 4, 1948)
Enforcement order for Liaisen and Geerdi-
nation Temporary Establishment Law (Ca-
binet Cruer Nc. 22, 1948)
3. The provisions of the previse in the preceding
paragraph shail not affect the application of the
provisions of the law concerning the fixef nuaber
of personnel.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
DATE: August 5, 1940
FROM : NA - Mr. Bond
Files
Central
RM/R
This Decument Must Be Returned to
suBject: Visit of Shimoda to the United States
Arrangements have been made and transit vieas granted
to the three Japanese who constituted the Japanese Govern-
ment delogation applying for admission to the Paris Confer-
ence of the ITU, to spend about 3 weeke 1n the United States
enroute to Japan. It is planned that Yamagimhi and Saito
will study United States telecommunications systems in Now
York and San Francisco. It wae recommended by Mr. Huston
that arrangements be made for the third Japanese, Takeso
Shimoda, Chief of the Treaties Section, Bureau of Treatles
of the Japanese Foreign Office, to discuss at the Department
matters relating to Japanese participation in international
organizations and to obtain ourrent information on inter-
national agreements.
NA has concurred in this reoommendation but informally
suggested to Army that Mr. Shimoda's visit to the Department
be very brier. It is now anticipated that Shimoda will arriv
on August 15 and after a vieit to the Department will accompany
Yamagishi and Saito to New York and San Franolsoo.
21
NA feels that it would be advisable to brief Mr. Shimoda
in broad terms on the overall Us position toward Japanese
partioipation in international relations. However, it is
00
considered even more important to solioit from Shimoda
specific examples of how Japanese participation in internatioral
conferences, and the sending of consular and trade represental
tives abroad, would benefit the Japanese economy and politioal
life. In this connection Mr. Shimoda may be able to indioate
what progress has been made by the Japanese Government in formulat
ing plans to send trade representatives abroad. (New York
Times, August 5, attached). Until the Aoting Political Adviser
has submitted the detailed program regarding consular arrange-
894.
ments requested by the Department, it may not be advisable for
the Department to express its support of the Japanese Govern-
ment plane exoept in the broadest terms.
At present, it is tentatively planned that several Depart-
mental officers (Mr. Sohuler, Mr. Moseley, Mr. Fearey, Mrs.
Dunning and myeelr) will lunoh with Mr. Shimoda on August 1?
and thereafter adjourn to the Department for a more comprehensive
disoussion. It is hoped that you will be able to be present
at the lunoheon and disoussion. 
are requested.
cat-
QID
FE:MA:ALDunning:olh

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.66)
ad Pohygo dopenl Uan 1s3! Poh. Se.
Da haw.
d  1d 1 Re /Teat.
1541 .
π
al ftein,
川
Pen 1
tucelie. ta.
lte
A
2
4

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.89)
2129/52
De/R - 1167N.S.
Since this went to
the Secretary- and siice
Geveral Morshall's commments
Are on p.2- I thaught it
Should the seut down for
index ring separotel,-
yTaylar
NA
