894.7595 Telephone. Communication Between ** And ., July 5, 1949 (File 1739)
ID: 894.7595-1739   Pages: 5   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.7595-telephone-communication-between
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
Action Assigned to - I D
Action To - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
File
File
File
File
File
File
JUL 20 1949
894.7595/7-549
DMC
31

THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
FIVE CENTURY STATES OF AMERICA

Direction to Navy

United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, July 5, 1949.

No. 429
CONFIDENTIAL

Subject: Beopening of Civil Wire Telephone Service between Korea and Japan

REC'D
JUL 14

ACTION
TRC 1/

INFO
FR
DCR
FE
OLI

The Charge d'Affaires ad interim has the honor to enclose a copy of a note dated June 17, 1949, from this Mission in its capacity as the Diplomatic Section of Headquarters to the Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan, transmitting a proposal by the Japanese Government for reopening the wire telephone service by means of submarine cable facilities between Pusan, Korea, and Fukuoka, Japan, and for operation of this service on a "sender keep all" basis. On this basis, Korean communication authorities would retain all charges collected for telephone calls made from Korea to Japan, and Japanese communication authorities would retain all charges collected from calls from Japan to Korea.

c 2/

Also enclosed is a copy of a communication dated May 27, 1949, from the Civil Communications Section of Headquarters to this Mission, requesting that the above proposal be transmitted to the appropriate Korean authorities. Appended as subenclosures to the Civil Communications Section request are a memorandum for record describing the basis for this proposal and a comment by the G-2 Section of Headquarters stating that it has no objection to reopening of this telephone circuit.

Officials of the Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan have informally indicated their eagerness that this service be reopened. It is likely, therefore, that the service will be reestablished as soon as technical difficulties have been worked out.

Enclosures: att

1. Copy of note dated
June 17, 1949, to the
Korean Diplomatic
Mission in Japan

2. Copy of communication
dated May 27, 1949,
from the Civil Communications Section of Headquarters.

S 301
RBFinn:gmd

Parchment Mat to the Department
Copy to American Embassy, Seoul

ACTION REPORTIAL
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 429 dated July 5, 1949, from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Reopening of Civil Wire Telephone Service between Korea and Japan".

CONFIDENTIAL

(COPY)

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Diplomatic Section

The Diplomatic Section of General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, presents its compliments to the Korean Diplomatic Mission in Japan and has the honor to transmit a proposal by the Japanese Government for reopening the commercial wire telephone service by means of the submarine cable facilities between Pusan, Korea, and Fukuoka, Japan.

This wire telephone service between Japan and Korea was suspended at the end of the war. Information received from Japanese sources indicates that the submarine cable lines between Pusan and Fukuoka are in good condition although the circuits have not been tested for some time. Available information also indicates that there is a demand in Japan for the reopening of this service.

The Japanese Government therefore proposes that the service be reopened on a "sender keep all" basis. On this basis, Japanese communications authorities would retain all charges collected for telephone calls made from Japan to Korea and Korean communications authorities would retain all charges collected for calls from Korea to Japan. It is recommended that the service be established on this basis in order that the service be generally available to all persons in both Korea and Japan and in order to avoid foreign exchange problems. Wire telegraph service between Korea and Japan now operates over this route on this basis.

The good offices of the Mission in forwarding this proposal to the Korean Government and in transmitting the Government's reply would be appreciated.

Tokyo, June 17, 1949.

To the
Korean Diplomatic Mission,
Tokyo.

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 429 dated July 5, 1949, from the United States Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject "Reopening of Civil Wire Telephone Service between Korea and Japan".

CONFIDENTIAL

(COPY)

GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUTHERIE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS

CHECK SHEET

HEFulton/26-5841

File No. 13/WEF/h Subject: Reestablishment of Civil Wire Telephone Service between Japan and Korea

From: CCS To: CS Date: 27 May 1949
Thru: G-2

1. Inquiries reaching CCS indicate there is a requirement for re-opening civil wire telephone service between Japan and Korea using Japanese submarine cable facilities via Fukuoka/Pusan. This service was available before the war and was suspended at the end of World War II.

2. Information obtained from Japanese MCC sources indicates that the Japanese submarine cable lines between Fukuoka and Pusan are in good condition although the circuits have not been tested for some time.

3. Informal information received from CG USAFIK indicates that the Korean MCC is interested in reestablishment of civil wire telephone service between Japan and Korea, using submarine cable facilities between Fukuoka and Pusan, and has requested the Foreign Minister to initiate steps to effect same.

4. It is proposed by SCAP that the service be reopened on a "sender keep all" basis with all charges in Japan to be paid in Japanese yen. On this basis the Japanese MCC would retain all the charges collected for telephone calls made from Japan to Korea, and the Korean administration would retain all the charges collected for telephone calls from Korea to Japan. Wire telegraph service between Japan and Korea now operates over this route on the same basis. This basis is recommended so as to make telephone service available to all persons in Japan and to all persons in Korea, and also because of the present impracticability of making normal settlements of accounts due to the lack of an international exchange rate for the Japanese yen and the Korean won.

5. It is requested that CS refer this proposal to the Korean Diplomatic Mission in Tokyo for forwarding to the appropriate Korean authorities for their concurrence.

G. I. B.

From: G-2 To: CCS Date: 9 June 1949
Thru: DS

G-2 has no objection to the reopening of the cable telephone circuit between Japan and Korea as proposed in C/N 1, above.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to
Tokyo's despatch no. 429
dated July 5, 1949.

- 2 -
(COPY)
CONFIDENTIAL

C/S, G-2 to CCS then US
Subj: (Same as check note 1)

MEMORANDUM FOR RECORD

1. At the time of the surrender there were two cable telephone
circuits to Korea. One from Fukuoka via Tsushima to Pusan, was in
bad operating condition. The other ran from Fukuoka via Tsushima to
Pusan and was relayed on via land line to Seoul. This circuit was in
operating condition.

2. Under provisions of para 10b, Part II of Directive No. 2 from
the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to the Japanese Government
dated 3 Sept 1948, stating "All overseas international and internal
electrical communication facilities (including cables, radio telegraph,
radio telephone and radio broadcasting facilities) in the area covered
by this Directive are (to be) maintained intact and continued in operation
with the existing personnel (whether military, naval and/or civilian)
", the telephone cable circuits to Korea were kept in operation.

3. Immediately upon establishment of the District Censorship Station
at Fukuoka, telephone monitoring equipment was installed to cover
these two cable telephone lines. It was found that, due to operating
conditions, no calls were ever placed over the Fukuoka-Pusan line, but
there were public calls completed over the Fukuoka-Seoul line numbering
about 30 per month at the start and dwindling to as few as 5 per month
by the middle of 1946 when the line was closed to public use. USAFIK
did not permit calls to be placed from Korea nor accepted in Korea and
use of the circuit was limited to official Occupation calls. Since the
Japanese Government never received official notice of the suspension of
these circuits, they have been maintained and frequently tested to establish
their operability. Because they were a potential channel of
external communication, Censorship maintained coverage of these lines
in case any public calls were allowed.

4. CCD is, therefore, prepared to monitor any calls over this
newly proposed circuit from Fukuoka to Pusan. CCD coverage of calls
over this circuit will be on the same basis as coverage of other external
circuits, unless G-2 directs otherwise, that is, approximately
25 per cent of the total non-privileged calls will be monitored.

5. Whether Pusan or Seoul will be the actual terminus of this
circuit is a matter to be decided by the Republic of South Korea which
took over the Pusan terminal in August 1946. CCS advises that the
SCAPIN which will be issued to the Japanese Government will authorize
the opening of this circuit but will not direct that it be opened and
details of maintenance will be worked out later. All charges collected
for use of this service in Japan will be kept by the Ministry of Communications
and all charges collected in Korea will be retained by the
Korean Government.

6. The only other telephone circuits to and from Japan are the
three radio telephone circuits between Tokyo and San Francisco. There
is a cable

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to
Tokyo's despatch no. 429
dated July 5, 1949.

- 3 -

is a cable telegraph circuit from Fukuoka to Pusan, another from Nagasaki to Vladivostok. Pre-war there were cable telegraph and cable telephone circuits from Shimonoseki to Korea but these were inoperative at the time of the surrender and, according to CCS, the Japanese Ministry of Communications states that they are still inoperative and unsuitable for use as telephone circuits. Pre-war there was also a cable telegraph circuit from Matsue, Japan, via Ulong-do to Wonsan, in what is now North Korea, but CCD has never had any evidence that this circuit has been in operation since the surrender and representatives of the Ministry of Communications have stated that the circuit is inoperable.

7. Recommend G2 concurrence in reopening of the Fukuoka-Pusan cable telephone circuit as being consistent with the general SCAP policy of reopening external channels of communication to Japan, and forwarding of C/N No. 2 to Diplomatic Section. CCD authority for coverage of this circuit is authorized under para 3 of SCAPIN 1771, dated 9 Sept 1947, subject: Relaxation of International Telecommunications Restrictions.

s/ W. R. G.
W. R. G. (9 Jun 49)
Phone: 26-6905

CONFIDENTIAL
