894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., June 23, 1949 - December 29, 1949 (File 1833), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.00-1833-2   Pages: 436   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-30/894.00%20Japan%2C%20Political%20Affairs.%2C%20June%2023%2C%201949%20-%20December%2029%2C%201949%201833-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
SHEET 7.
before the United Nations Trusteeship Council, advocating speedy
tlement of the Hindu minority problem in Southwest Africa and our
support of the proposal to convert Southwest Africa into a trust ter-
ritory.
A restatement of the Philippine position on Japan and the role
that this former enemy country will play in the political, economic
and strategic post-war scheme in Asia and the world is necessary if
only to emñhasizehigh point
in our foreign policy. The Republic
has consistently favored measures designed to help Japan attain self-
support but has uncompromisingly rejected measures which would enable
that country to attain a dominant position in Asia and allow her to
again threaten the economic security and territorial integrity of her
neighbors. This stand has manifested itself on a wide field of issues
concerning Japan. I shall specify a few of them:
1. The Philippines has vigorously opposed all attempts to allow
Japan to sit in international conferences, the latest being those of
the Irternational Telecommunications Union and the UNEsco.
The Phil-
ippines will object to any such moves in the future in the conviction
that Japan may not legally hope to attain an "international personality"
pending the conclusion of a peace treaty.
2. The Philippine reparations claims against Japan, as President
Quirino has affirmed time and again "will oe put forward as firmly as
ever before." This policy has remained unchanged up to this day irres-
pective of the United States lirective on May 12 of this year putting
a stop to the program of interim reparations payments.
3. The Philippines registered stout opposition to the American
unilateral directive now being implemented by SCaP extending the limits
of Japan's fishing areas t, 1, ooo miles northward across the Pacific.
4. The Republic lodged with the Far Eastern Commission early last
month a strong protest against the United States directive
earmarking
$81 billion of Japanese gol bullion for Siam and Indo-China.
The Philippines will support Japan's eventual admission in the
family of nations the moment that country can meet the following set of
criteria:

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
SHEET 8.
First, concrete assurances of the peaceful intentions of tho
Japanese government and people;
Secondly, aasurance that the last vestiges of militaristic and
expansionist thinking have been abolished in Japan's ruling clique to
create a climate in that country thoroughly congenial for the growth
of free, democratic institutions; and
Thirdly, willingness of Japan to assume her international obli-
gations to the Allies pursuant to the provisions of the Potsdam Dec
laration and the terms of the Post-Surrender Policy Agreement.
Our efforts towards total economic mobilization are part of an
international struggle against poverty and other economic ills.
Peace cannot be realized without freedom and freedom depends on
the economic well-being of peoples. Peace, freedom and prosperity
are the symbolic tripods which sustain the relentless drive of man
toward a better future.
In the implementation of our economic. program, the Department
of Foreign Affairs is actually collaborating with other governmental
agencies. Our own economic development is only a part of a world-wide
program of economic cooperation. Therefore, whatever plans we follow
will be dependent upon the effectiveness with which we conduct our
international relations. The success of our economic mobilization
program will depend also on the degree of our cooperation with the
United States, with our neighboring countries in Asia and with the
specialized agencies of the United Nations which are concerned with
economic affairs.
Our economic mobilization program is directed toward the attain-
ment of total economic self-sufficiency to enable the Republic to con-
tribute to the promotion of a healthy world economy. World economic
prosperity is the basis of international peace. Both are indivisible.
Economic maladjustments, such as unemployment, low prices and other
economic ills constitute irritants which disrupt world peace. Pros-
perity in one sector of the globe cannot long endure as long as there
is poverty in other parts of the world. A healthy Philippine economy
is a contribution to a healthy world economy
/and a healthy world economy affects advantageously the economy of the

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
SHEET 9.
Philippines. This program of economic development cannot be
carried out on a national basis alone.
Diplomacy is the active profession of statesmen and career
diplomats. It also is the active concern of peoples because for-
eign policy involves the welfare of nations. It is dependent on
the play of forces generated by conflicting interests. Policy
makers cannot formulate national objectives and principles without
considering the temper and the aspirations of the people they
represent.
The public should not view with passivity much less with in-
difference the conduct of our foreign relations. You are all par-
ticipants in our evolving foreign policy. By your reactions
Philippine foreign policy will be shaped. By your support Philip-
pine foreign policy will be strengthened in the international field.
I therefore appeal to each and everyone of you to give unstinted
support to our foreign policy in order that the objectives which
I have enumerate may be realized and in order that the respect
which nations now show for our country may endure.
非

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.83)
THE TOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
G DIVISION OF
Office of the United States
Pelitical Adviser for Japan
MORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
Tekyo, November 23, 1949.
at9
N al1
no acr uied
(2)
Rubet Gri Afre re onferen- a
The Honep
The Se tary of Stey
894.00/11
r 0,29reering
 -m and et k
22
2349
. e copres ef voumber
Cespatekr dad ed Hevenber 1
from Yokchenea.
2. Toe copies of memorond
oenc er
Conference u! Ramekura
FILED
pared by Poreegn Serve
Cfrieer Drotert E. F
300 Jn/123 
00cville th
Parchment
RunptpLrT (Fer Department use only).
AR
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WTTHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF AOTION TAKEN.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.95)
Enclosure No. 1 To Despateh
No. 81l dated November 23, 1949
from USPOLAD, Tokyo, subjost:
"Civil Affairs Conferenee at
Kasakura".
Yokohama Branch
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohama, Japan, November 15, 1949.
CONFIDENTIAL (For Jepartment's use only)
The Honorable
William J. Sebald,
Acting United States .olitical Adviser,
Tokyo, Japan.
Sir:
I have the hoor to refer to this office's
despatch dated November 2, 1949 transmitting a
copy of a report prepared by Foreign Service
Officer Richard . FINN in connection with a trip
he made to Gifu rrefecture with a Civil Affairs
Team of the sirhth nrmy. r. Finn recently attended
a conference &t famakura on local autonomy conducted
by the Civil ffaire ection and there is enclosed
a copy of his memorandum report of that conference.
The Mission will note that the following are among
the more crucial issues in the administration of
local vovernment in: Japan:
(2)
interference by elected local officials
in the ai inistration of th.e city,
(b)
overstaffins of t city administrative
rections,
(c)
buse uy elements or tle reneral public
of the power to recall mayors,
(3)
the tendeney ei ayors to estaclish com-
mission rre iteesly,
(e)
the prevalent dapanese notion tiat meet-
in s or pub. ic safety co sissions, which
re concemed vit. pelice ma tters, snould
lays be secret, and
(2)
the tendency of Japanese officials to rely
on the central tthority in Totys, whether
the authority be Allied or Japanese.
It will
CONPT JERTL.L

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
It will be noted further that occupation
officials state that Kanagawa Prefecture is ably
administered by Governor Iwataro UCHIYAMA and that
the city of Yokohama is particularly well run by
Socialist Mayor ISHIKAWA. This office concurs in
that statement. Kamakura, however, is said to be
ineptly managed under Mayor izaemon ISOBE, who is
described as an old guard Democratic Liberal hench-
man. One of the Civil Affairs officials reports
that Kamakura is the most poorly managed city in
the prefecture, that its police are corrupt, that
blackmarketing flourishes in the city, and that
there has been some trouble with communist teachers
in the city schools.
I consider this an excellent and timely report -
all to the credit of r. Finn.
Respectfully yours,
James . rilcher
american Consul General
Enclosure:
Memorandum eport
350
JBPileher/ra
In uriplicate to vission
To copy to bepartment
COMFIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclomure No. 2 to Despatch No. 81l dated November 23, 1949,
from UsPOLAD, Tokyo, subject: "Civil Affairs Conference at
Kamakura".
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department's use only)
MEMORANDUM REFORT
November 15, 1949
TO:
Mr. Pilcher
SUBJECT: Civil Affairs Conference at Kamakura
On Movember 9 and 10, 1949, I attended a conference
on local autonomy conducted by the Legal and Covernment
Division, Civil Affairs  ection, Headquarters, Eighth
Army. This conference Mas held at the city of Kamakura,
15 miles south of Yokolhama in Kanagawa Prefecture, and
wan similar to tno e at Uji-Yamada and Ogaki previously
reported by Vice Consul illiam L. M.GI TRETTI and the
undersigned.
About 1,200 persons, mostly local officials from
towns in Kanagawa Iref cture, were present at the opening
meetins and attendance remained good throughout the con-
ference. Un tne first day I read a puper in Japanese re-
ardine citizenshi, end tis citizen, and r. Joseph G.
PEnTlloRsTolE, of the Kanto Resional Civil Affairs Team,
and r. Howara . TaTaa of sighth Army Headquarters sum-
marized four other popers on local rovermment in a clear
and interestins way. Jr. Featherstone and r. Forter
emphasized what they mdicated to me were amon the more
crucial issues in ad...inistration of local overnment in
Japan: interference by elected local official: in the ad-
ministrati on of the city; overstaffin of city administra-
tive sections; buce by elenents of the reneral public of
the , ower to recall mayorn, the tendeney of mayors to
establish com i sions hmudlessly: une the prevalent Japan-
ose notion that meetinps of public safety commissions, which
are concerned with pelice mattere, snould always be secret.
On the cecond day of the conference feur different mroups
consistin sf pereene invited from the audience of the
previoue lay dicotumred -eneral protloms of local autonomy.
Phe discuesion roupr showed conriderable interest
and, iu seemed to ne, intelli tance in problems of local
covermment. They vere particularly cohcerned with local
finances - ow cities in the united tates rot adequate
aunds for their operatlone, how local sducation was fin-
anced in tas mited myter, Lor cities in che nited States
avei ded donination by the centrel and state rovermments if
they dopended on the latter for Punds. Severai of the
questioners showed a cler appreciatlon of the effeet of
éconovic deprescion snd austerity in depan on local autonomy
and plans for educational reform. There was tleo some in-
terest in the, city manaser systom used by many american
cities, sapecially s it orfored mope of reducinr bossism
and political
SUNFIDE TIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
and political influence in local administration. A sub-
ject of general concern that was raised several times was
that of juvenile delinquency and immorality among young
people. Discussion of this problem took several forms:
what measures are taken in the United States to deal with
young girls who become prostitutes; how should Japan handle
its serious "panpan giri" problem; what provisions are
being made for unwed Japanese mothers where the American
fathers have left Japan; what can be done to maintain dis-
cipline among school children, who have tended to become
obstreperous in the postwar period.
During the discu sions I tried to find out what the
audience felt about the local autonomy program. It was
impossible to provoke any display of strong feeling on this
subject, everyone confinin himself to routine endorsement
of the new education system, the new method of administer-
ing elections, or other features of the new program. In
spite of the artificial nature of these meetings, however, I
got the impression that the people were interested in and
familiar with the ceneral purposes of the local autonomy
program, and tiat t ey felt the new system, however routine
their endorsement of it, to te an improvement over the old.
as a result of conversations with Occupation and local
Japanese ofricials, it was possible to 'et some idea of
conditions in Kanavawa refecture and in Kamakura City.
Occupation officials say Kanagava Irefecture is ably admin-
istered by Governor Iwataro UChIYA A and that the city of
Yokohama is particularly well run by Socialist Hayor Kyoichi
isHIkAwA. Kemakura, however, is said to be ineptly managed
under Mayor Rizaemon I OBE, Who is described as an old ruard
Jemocratic Liberal henchman. Dr. Featherstone says that
Kamakura is the most poorly manared city in the prefecture,
that its police re corrupt, that blackmarketin flourishes
in the city, and that there lms beer some trouble with Com-
munist teachers in the city schools. hen I talked to the
mayor, nowever, he said the city he d no particular adminis-
trative or  olitical problems, except the usual complaints
that Korean and communist elements were troublesome. Local
officials attendin the conference aleo indicated that they
were meeting no undue difriculties in uttins the new pro-
gram into effect. 1 tal ked brietiy to the mayors of Odawara
and Yokosuka and ot tne impre sion from then that because
all points in Kanagawa refecture ere relatively close to
Tokyo, they and their fellow mayors founa it musy to take
their problems to the capital and that they are accustomed
to make thi: trip at lea at once a week.
From pr. Yoshinobu SxO OTO, the . resident or the
Kamakura City Council, 1 learned ore tout the problems of
the locality. Kamakura City comprises four townships -
Kamakura, Kita Kamakura, Ofuna, ans Kushigoe, und has a
population of  tout 85,O0o. 1ts principal source of income
is the teurist in stry no the city would like to incorpor-
ate the resort town of moshima nor in Fujisave City in
orderto
CONFIJENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
order to integrate the tourist industry of southeastern
Kanagawa Prefecture. A high percentage of the residents
of Kamakura are enployed in Tokyo and commute every day.
Although its residents are relatively prosperous, Kamakura
City is meetin& considerable difficulty in financing its
local government. Mr. Enomoto also said that the City
Council consisted of 35 members and had proved too large
to be an effective legislative body.
I also talked at some length with Mr. Howard Porter
about the local government program in Japan. Mr. Porter
has been working in this field for four years and appears
to be a serious and competent student of this subject. It
is his opinion that local autonomy hus not developed to
any great extent in Japan: local officials still go to
Tokyo frequently for advice and support; city councils are
generally impotent and have little idea of what is meant by
representing the people; undesiralle political influences
still tend to control city overnments. On the other hand,
he believes that certain features of local autonomy have
progressed: some of the local commissions have done effect-
ive work; local police organizations are swinging back from
their former extrene of lethargy and weakness to a position
where they can and do enforce respect for the law. Mr.
orter feels tlhat the reduction of civil affairs activity
is desirable, and that whatever could be done by the Occupa-
tion in the field of local overnment has been largely
accomplished. r. rorter also believes that che Occupation,
as weil as any Allied supervisory organization that may
succeed the Occupation, should maintain scrutiny of the
development of local overnment, if only to counteract the
tendency of Japanese officials to rely on the central
authority in Tokyo, whethor thet authority should be Japan-
ese or Allied.
Risherd B. Jinn
Richard B. Finn
American Vice Consul
RSF: fa
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.83)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMONICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
SA FFA
19
525
Aetion Takon wti
Dec 8 49
NA
DETL
.D, Tokyo
lu fue
f
tile
Jeccnber 2, 194s
011:Dec 5, 1949 10:5 am
7
M
ACTICN
894.00/1
FE
 toe
INFO
DCR
OLI
CIA
on Novembor ), i r. Yome on I a, inister
AAN
witr sut poctfslio is t. oenlue Ce inet t lecaer in
POS
the couli to t ctie f tre pc oor: tis rarty, issued
P
a state e caln P unifi bion of the De pcretie
Lert d ie s  i for retei siort for the
Yosrid  iot in vie of t sntera sisaal situntion
2
tn 1 e coitios. he rejecced.
5
ho evur, prevtons se ot lons / or a merer of the
64
ecerati  lerel   er tie rties. e  erently
desires to se, t o Do no ie  rt beeoe a stren
consorvebrve Poroe I.  oolitlee t nevertheless
servi or  rosoa eutre
re lhur fupther se peeem srae  uniries Domocre tio
Perty sro le support to loveer nt from watslle t e
Cabi tut
toy oere po jn tne
Yoshid Sovere eat sr d sest n, vi oah at a leter
dato tt t pt be e tvis do to watici. oo ta the Cs tnst.
whe l o De ooe   bor is
isre
1
xR 844.0021
C
FILED
1
王
1949
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.71)
Nove.brs,1s.
Frime inister sts sse   sndiceted on
Rovember sl thet ho wi i i nors the iimore stetesent.
e vier whioh is shapl y sshs De eeratic Liberal
Farty Ledex.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.91)
THE PORISION ERVIKE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF ANBRICA
CONFIDENTIAL
(Fer Department use only).
DIVISION 
WOAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
land
Office of the United States
13
Political Adviser for Japan
RECD
DEC 7
Tokyo, December 2, 1949.
ACTION
mo a reed
-enc
~8
in
Subject: Civii Affairs Cenferen:e at Shicgana.
INFO
DCR
OLI
PER
The Honcrable
The Secretary of State,
Washingten.
Sir:
In contareatr of the Ma series of despasches trans
mitting. reporte upen C vim Affaara coni ererces on lcral government
894.00/12-249
(no. Sil ef Novesher e ivey, and presaous despatches) I have the
21
honer to erciese herevath two paes c a repert by Foreign Service
Officer Wallcam L. Memsrpertt (Yokchama after attending such a
conference held at Shigame n Nev-mber 1 and 2. 1949. The report
is covered by brie comment ty the Conaul General at Yokohama under
1/
date of Nevember 25. 1949 twe cepies of whiih are enclosed herewith.
Shiegame a town in rerthen sran en the Pacifi ccast near
Sendai, is notuon ptey be eass :f :e attemp: to develep as a port
for overseas sharaing.
Respeelly 
W. J. Sebali
Encle sure.
/1. Two copaes of urrumbore
despat oh sat ed Noverber ?
1949. to USPOLAD.
Ty
from Yekchame.
Confidential
 2
Two cepres of memerand.n
report deted  veaber 
199
FILED
prepared by Foreign Service
Officer William L. MAGTSTRETTY
350 Japen/123 MAGISTRETTI
CCoville: hh
Copy to USPOLAD. Yekchama.
Parchment Mat to Departmet
CONFIDENTIAL
(Fer Pepartmert
 ony)
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
841 dat mber 2, 949,
from USPOLAD, Tokyo, subjeet:
"Civil Affairs Conference at
Shiogama".
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department's use only)
Yokohama Branch,
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohama, Japan, November 25, 1949.
The ionorable
Villian J. Jebeld,
Acting United States Political Adviser,
Tokyo, Jepen.
Sir:
Reference is mace to this office's despatch dated
Gctobor 14, 1949, transmittins a copy of a Memorandum
Report prepero  Poreigr, Jervice fficer Villiam .
UAGISTnSTTI re-ording a trip he nede to Uji-Yamada with
 Civil Affeirs Terr. of the i-hth Army.
r.  egistretti has completed similer trips to
yagi refecture ond to Myushu. There is enclosed
a copy of his rerort cated ovember 4, 1949, regarding
the  iyagi trip. Two sensrate renorts on the yushu
trir will be forwerled to the  ission in due course.
Io will e note that t e loccl tutonomy program
has ot net with whe orne suceess in  iyeci as in other
parts c? d  n. The reletive baelarerdness and poverty
of tlhe rrer tave contriiuted to the difficulties ex-
nerievce elnew ere.
:istretti believes that
the stru le o e errcy i. iyemi will be intense.
.eupectfully yours,
Jr os . ilcher
c ter Jonsul General
 closure:
enert lo ortt
eve e1,11.
3F0
ile er:l
t irlir to to a ton
o cory to opt t
g
bw

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.84)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
841 dated Desember 2, 1949, from
CONFIDENTIAL
USPOLAD, Tokyo, subjeet: "Civil
(For Department's use only)
Affairs Conference at Shiogamm".
MEHORAIDUM REPORT
November 4, 1949
Subject: "ocrl overaent Sonfore ce et Shiogama.
The confere ce t iopne is enother in the
series condueted y tel nd Government section,
Civil Affeirs ivision, imath rry, Cor the purpose
of rccuointin  cople vith their ri its end duties
under the new loeci nutonomy lnv on to essist them
with specifie roblems of city overnment in dis-
cussion proupe. etcile of the wy
such conferences
pre hencled cre iver in py  emorcndum teport, dated
"ctober 10, 1949, on  conforence Leld t the city
f .
enbersi ip of the visitin" rour of lccturers
includedr. Cecil . 
Aief, Legel und Covern-
ment section, Jivil frrire
'ivicion, hecdcuerters
irhth smmy; r. ichcel
 of the same section;
r..
Sivil  ferire e lon:
for
re/m, Legal
one Covermmone  acor, wte val freirs Temrp and
the miter.
Lale the  pee t psity o o dri (opproximately
30 minutes my) ir v ctly nore amportrr t an Liyagi
refecture, hiomr wr selecter i ereer to evoid
auplicrtion,  o consre ee os pi refecturel level
hor been heir et i t y Feroe.
ioeme's
roelrtion o 2.coo ily  es . sishina. ith
some eortevlour peyer to
w peowrr ceeport te
he Irited tete  sestors.
understand this
ex ot trede se v etl w or
hhere is the
nour I ststterin o
 to the needs
of the towm.
Ithou
 u9s
th:: 1o.
 litle tocky to
in seeto a wohe
tove. eves p.e pppocre.ce
Lov br yor sou
Fro cort
ot.se

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.83)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2 -
clashes between Japonese merchent sailors and United
States troops, the town was placed "Off Limits" to all
allied personnel shortly after Cccupation and hes con-
tinued  ff imits" dowm to the present.
I spite of the former beckwardness of the town,
the mryor end civic officials have put into motion a
very ambitious port improvenent and city zoning plan.
ork is alrendy under vsy on one of several piers which
will cccomiodrte shins ur to 12,000 tons. The mayor
hes secured t. e support of Aiericon shipping egents in
Yoltoheme becruse the position of Shiogene on the Great
Circle oute saves their shipo at least seven hours
travel time over the vort of Yokohema. At the present
time a rumber of siti s put into the port, but cargo
mmust be unlor e by li htors. Tour years hence, with
concletion of the iers, s reater flor of such traffic
is puticipntec.
Torether with the mat ri lisstion of the new piers,
wonine restrictions i the o er crees of the towm will
give it  moder cosno litrr mir. treets cre being
widened. itreet li hts are being set up. building res-
trictions will mele for fine-lookin moderm shops. For
those desirin  contrrst, the older micele-age area of
the city iil is loft wntoueked.
. Poti , myor of io e, is hinself
typiesl af the  evelormont o" his birthelr ce. An alert
cu : etive mwor, o bar bee she notivatinp force be-
hine the etrt es o toom hrs mw e.r. delursi's father
esteblirhe t e  al fostun t rour operatine houses
of sri nrtion. r. s ures, cluerted et eseda Uuiver-
sity r Po
t vo tir te of business.
Tome i tely u on is  wre r cert. ho sole cout the
Crraly brterertr tou e, voe etoble wolescle house.
"e then erreve s t e  be e coerce. ut,
it wrs net wntt: fteo the w tee he beer e eyor.
Thie e pou bae soe
tew. s sraoo,
it isintici-
to
rly ster io ofelock,
Teo ie: or the ire rammer
c: 001,
i.ttenruce.
et o  in
i i refecture.
OPU
ivil
e oion.
core.ce.ext
va fom,  ecd uertees
ver o t

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.83)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
Mr. icheel . , ichigan attorney and former
robate Judge, now a member of the Legal and Government
'ection, discussed the msyor's position under the new
locel rutonomy lew. lHe pointed out that the mayor has
both local end nationel duties, such as the rice collec-
tion. Shoul  the mayor fail to carry out these duties,
he can be forced to do so by  rit of Kandamus. He
stated the recell lhad been i ely misused: ebout 300
nayors eve hee recalled, and cpproximately 1,000
noyors leve resirner volunterily in the fece of a
vossible recrll. t shoul: be ote rerentheticelly
thet both r. olen c . ilten  mitted this mis-
use was duo in pert to thoir former specches in which
they hee introsuced the rec: ll systen to the people.
r. clen state tirt r. ilton ws in Srvor of the
recell ooe osire sr ree st continne rs a pert of
the 2oer1 : utopomy 10.
t shoule be vote
that . r. Tilton was primerily
pesponoible for pitir this l r Laving it passed
by the iet. r. olrm tol the tulimee thet the re-
call vrs like :  ose  strone: nodicine - only to be
used in extreme cases. He consi ered the mein cause of
the treuble to be the Is e of Sinences. In his opinion
the hou erort, t rou  ovidinm nore money to the
locr? press, would efford considereble relief. (Generel
acArthur  so t  lotter ef inatruction to the Jepe-
nese  iet to ort tilis report, but as yet it hes not
been incorporsted.) e urred the people to reno ber
thet their y or wee not responsible for this lack of
funds, but rothor the reeson i to be found in the
crehsic ten syston unehrnged for so years. They
shoul not be w uly cisturbed by ninor mistakes in
prminieterin the loerl utonon rv, but should
realine srt tu ll  he yor s to erpect ite operee
tior.
urin tho coure o se pltortoon, ejor aomtotn,
in disoussin city aseo  lies,  e t o  oint tirt they
coul be cut prrroxiy taly pisty pereert rt considoreble
others
srvine to he enese tepwyer. r. ol 
confirmor the pbhome ly topmv siee os the th unese
theise,
soee liee  cor v pes t Whe Taibor e teo.
ren vtevael.
t  
i p eoe e sde dent
eceurity in loerl overm-
coitteer ton eut 
 oul pl m be cetion
ort
 mhoul to t co st oue
con ritteo.
ston Focrus
 e sit deste to pre
so e ot. oo o
po r to the :ctiv-
ttes 'he
s corittee, he ststed
 oreet tein.owever
that eyerore
some even
e expressed
1 te the wy
th
ion

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.82)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
in hich recall petitions should be dram up indicating
that in some pleces petitions have had fraudulent signa-
tures.
iscussin the public safety commission, required
under the nolice law, he stated thet the commission -
not the wyor - ives orders to the police force. He
referre to "e-eral  ecArthur's letter to the Prime
inister f eyter or 19l? es beinr en excellent dis-
cussion of the relrtive functions of the city police
in the notiol rurr1 police. It should be noted that
this istinctio: is uite bothorsome to the Jepanese be-
cauce in t e x at they beve lueys hed one centralized
police srstem. some of tie Jerenese officicls I con-
toete ihfomurlly sher  cbout te wy in which the
city police c  t e ntrte voliee co-opereted in the
Initer tates. ey strta rt in iyegi Irefecture
there were feirly fre mont cruebeles betveen the national
rurrl molieo  the city or village rolice over juris-
liction vhere  crinsinrl, initirlly under te jurisdic-
tion of the atiourl ruril police, hed fled into t city.
apporently there is  reter unbendin ettitude in res-
nect to cscertio. Juvis action  ower.
To cenrectien vath t e olice, it shoula clso be
oter thhrat Ioth cerpotion crd mese sources told me
that, at lecst ir o fr o for wrt, she police were
lein cr: ller m  cre "ctin some ct similer to the
Cormer  mese my. me tustrnee cited to me vwas
mree t e reerartaor cerermny of t e olice cerc emy was
concucted exs etly in t o orrme wy as te re duation
cerenonies tlitry per ley.
e. Tilton wnehn er  at the thou ht thet trose
foro in cive locture   ive t e co le  summury of
oo locrl overnt. cut in ovs t in his opinion
wes se pe vet ou  eraer, ar wte ane
autien, eer sse euoev er plsees sr e  ost responci-
wlity on sre eltire  son e ere suet res
concibility 
ve e de eerncy.
ointbe te 
tol::o
teeo .to
theoe we  o ca ery be we boyment problem in
oe      work  here
nore  pe  (n icel
citio
e fr  rby use
the et te rcom 
anoe he eo wteri
rlere sode yorre Yo coue re e tre yi lr we wnex
wtoy .
ep er ce on the sor,
TTOS
overty.

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
Tu my first discussion roup, a woman spoke about
the problem of recelcitront taxpayers. Although efforts
have been made to cppeal to their conscience, she stated
a nunher of people still were conccaling tex information
and not paying. There is a tradition of tax evasion in
some arees in Jepen, and & need for educating the people
further lon th se lines. Some sources indicate that
the nein reason for the tax yield in the past year or
two hns beer that  ilitery Coverament despatched per-
sonnel to supervise the collection.
An olcer no from one ef the villeges stated that
le felt she eeplo vere roady te cssert their rights,
but shirker tlcir responsibilities. He felt a need for
educrtion to rvhen them to their responsibilities as
roo citise s.
vonn poke u o sey that farm women
hes no time betwee their heusehol- en farm duties to
reee newsrr pers o keer th ennelves infored on local
issues. (This cuestion re- ccurs frecuently according
to  egel er Covemurent rorsonnel.)  school teccher
esko ho t y coulr urintrin sel ool siscipline if they
did not hove the ri ht ur er the new lew to edninister
some corporel pur:ishmunt.
ne youm um rrose to com lrin thet the meyor of
his ton would not rproint younrer mor to the verious
boards or city etivities, ut filled cll such eppoint-
ments vith ola mer.  e cai thkt the youn: men's
cssocirtion, vhicl. he nes cd, osire: to  rticipate,
an  throurh thnt mortieiurtion pssure continuity in
civic projects.
In t is conrection, cus f the younger dupanese
mor rtteeher to tnhe Tonolu e lonwI Sover ment Teen
to mo fte neetin  t aye a refecture tonded
to be e renely conrervrt've. e l.er men (in feudel
Jepenese tredition)  e t clitierl :ower to thonselves
eo looker  tth disfovor o the younr men'o t Stetion
to be takeom in. estre e emm len se ultre-conserv tive
enr itr lin were to  Sor  whe werlthior ter of the
towms n villr res. his c usen  reretion towerd the
1eft,
r an seee phem   erens or fise yield failed,
the peo lo  vo voted e te voeatsict rrty tie tet. Thds
ae pponer not  e wse  w w deretoe  aytkin bout the
'rbty, us  pely  a srotont vot: bee use they felt
thore ves so oshor wa  to po setep sue.  protest. hhis
is e seetrl r brie :rst wie demoer tie prectices
io eaty roverwwt n
a rmust be weven.
Petar 
e ar re since
tt
the eii o ion.
ole orfici

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.80)
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
reared in the hard-bitten schocl of practical politics.
is former ectivities have ineluded functionary posi-
tions in vovernment bureaus in Tokyo; Jard  aster of
two Tokyo ards; e bureau chief in Irefectural Govern-
ment; and eyer of endei on an indepenuent ticket. He
arpears to he groo in himself for rovernor. He is a
shrew nd clever politicien. une indication is that
he rever calls his subor instes on his buzzer system.
Le dislikes erswerin buesers linself, so never uses
it but rether calls then on the telephone. Further,
unlike the vrst rsjorit of Jopenese officisls, he
will not deliver  mitten crcech. He writes his
snceches hineelf, :nr celivers the ss if extemporane-
ously   very eftoetively. The mvyor told me that
ivegi  t Tovam rer as rerlly Hofeeted twice.
The hiret time er e rt the tine of the eiji Restore-
tion hen Toi ou lorees su rorte the whorunate and
were 'efeeted.s  result, Joholku hes been in a
position sememhnt vimil:r to cur South after the civil
The noyor tol  st, s r m tter or pelicy,
only ilepprete er ps were lsced in sohoku service
by the Soverw ent  a  ye. ther iseriminetory
poosures pare citer.ittlo o ortumity wrs to be
foun in Toholu - Torye controlled the best in govern-
nert en wnivercitics, vhile the konsei ( est Japen)
rer cleime  vest a cre o Jrn s business. Tokyo
id crein ore the Pho a nr turt 1 rescurees of Tohoku
little or no
hut reve he ree net in in retum,  
opportunity to cevelop in ustri: lly or vthouwiso.
no is stoee eite  the  or wae thst soncei hd
in pre- re m. e micse t e firet y  the con-
to e oir to o ent blisirment
feresce reer
of  stec e oivm e in enrri. in feelin n ttituce
were very oi wl: to thet or suo om. ere wao cl: tn the
beeaeree f  e out ts bae i rre mesure to
Jicerimintion i
 otrsremit.o the
ivil
rr.
rt seeri likovdse
Louevee, it sboul bo soen
 citoe  the royor
has rert lo c Coo  Cut.
i ire
weo the estr blastamont  t rtot  etsas.
wea evae esplofted.
fecture ve bot a winos  poe so
 Covelepment of
Arother projeet , bver  um e
com ponin  civic
arae city
evele meat.
shoous
 eity iss
er stls ve ovs
 wo e e yostur
nor bee ve eilt
buitn.
iort
t.

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.85)
CONFIDENTIAL
-7 -
uring the evening we had dinner with Fir. J. M.
1lcox of the Tohoku ivil Affeirs Region, formerly
on attorney in Florida. An interesting commentery on
the extent to which new civil rirhts and liberties
are being exercised was revealed in the fact that
only seven or eirht vrits cf habens corpus have been
sworn out in the eer or two since civil rights and
liberties vere written into the Japanese law. r.
ilcox commeuted thet Jepanese lewyers seem absolutely
lisinclined to utilise this rimht. Lessrs. Tilton and
olon felt thet nenbers of the section of SUAf respon-
sible for thi- le islrtion hr not publicized it through-
out Japen in thhe pwnner in which they heve been educating
the people rerer inr the mew loe:1 utonony low, and hence
the reaults ef on-usc.
nothnr prable. cornentet upon urin the evening
wes that cf tle force rice collection. scrlier some
Japanese comment r bee m e thet it wes extremely
ifficult in  meaber of rece to supply the covernment
esteblished rice uotr. vone vd to buy rice on the
blrelt nerket in orler to meet their uott. r. Tilton
ex-ressed the opinior thvt the whole progre wes unree-
listic, ne such hich-hn e easures vere no longer
needed. He felt thrt the mersure wes beine foreed
throuh y  yoliey ofeirl who never noved out
of t ei offices  n cluts in Tolgyo to fine out what
the ree? situction  as. Tt shoula be noted thet Ir.
"olan confirmed this "Ivory Tover" criticism of JoAl
rolicy : lon" othee linos.  e el: imed tihet adverse re-
rorts ver ptoppee is clutamele hefore they reached soal.
y fermer reports o convereations with .ilitary fovern-
nent ofCicir le confim thie criticisn. (Jee Yokohame's
onrentialmto. 16
ysin of ecent
heneer i ilitoy ev pant tr cture in de en".
dcted otenber, 194.
w oter eubgeet s srtereae w a eae eu position
of the prefecture a t e city w er te er local
cutonory lov.
e effeet er t lv, rseordine to ir.
olrn, in to phree the prefoeture in y l tively the
noe position e th rier county ir co fr es ce
pirintret ive Pumetiona a. etivitier rre concer ed.
pine oepbhrcts se  loce  p she mue teape lity mhich.
la te rergewntey lity e ot locsl and
rovor onte (eerey boww e w bfonrt rovern
pat  ith wre rofeetee  a more e mel) Punetions.
prtere op Fose uu ier pretler wore woato rt one
e  he wo bior    onomy ow.
o over, one of the bwsie trsicultien lies an ths Cret
tt t t srster  ot revace t e eoc tine.
w   o    w oned
tr ollre to the
supieotorto

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.84)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -
city, en amount entirely insufficient for its new obli-
gations. The same large portion goes to the prefecture
hich now has no need for so much money. A Japanese
member of one of my discussion croups claimed that con-
siderable tax money vent unused in fiyagi Prefecture.
Cre Cisturbins factor concerning ilitary Government
work in  iyogi wrs little hints here and thore in our con-
versations that some of the Tilitary Government Team
commanders had not beer of proper ctlibre for the job.
Cne instonce e cite! of a Colonel who considered him-
self "emperor" e tho :rer he hed cherge of, and acted
eccordingly, tte. ptin to keep even Occupation per-
sonnel fron entering.
Howeve, the cholu e ion Terns have nou all ceased
nctivities ss f the first of ovember, nd the Tohoku
Civil Affairs terion is functionin: in uendci. The
change-over hcre oecurred one vonth before schedule be-
cause it was felt suen n intervel would be needed for
inventoryins nd "housekeeping.
The present complement
or the tegion is: on full Jolonel in chorge assisted by
a  ieutenont olonel n five mlisted Hon. I was unable
to escertein the exect uater of civilians employed, but
woula cuess that they wwnber p proximstely twenty or
thirty. I understa  this is the normal military end
civilien complement f the wew re ions.
In every ciscussion rouy on the second dey, Nov-
auber ?, l9l, there were mmestions cbout recell. Une
particuier inatamco illustretes the misuse of this de-
vice. Tr  certr ir villere the mwyor fntroduced a bill
prorosin the sepntruetion or net sefool. The asseubly
Puly px see t e bill, m timm o yor procceded to carry
out their instructione. Phereu o, ths vomen s club
insti cteo  poveuert to eceli she yor, ne he wes
reerlled by cbout eve votes: vone in orments tolc me
thrt the retuel some wm s beyoa the sel ool, thet
there wee consi crrFle  seari Peelinr r inst the
nyor invelved.
itio, tre s criticism o
tls omen'o resivitses
vaio. mth the recrll,
the mele ereco
1. e' preyer ex
peri nce.
wnother pro:le:
suort of
seloole 
tere wore.
el erly ce tle an thdicsted
thet he citsos vit'r u  
instr ces Sotnd it
tposeible te resce s a    co struet sehool or
support t.e ter chers.
sierrtor to or to
r ehe s ster. ptereby tie
covererrne rlaee ber
the ryment
o? terel ese. , bol
o ppe oeture a ade-
warte wume tue woel
15
Roar a se mele support
e two.
nu ber

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.88)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 9 -
In e number of the groups, civic leaders questioned
me about what constituted a good citizen. Their attompts
to drew me out on this subject indicated a feeling that
the people generally were not aware of their civic res-
ronsibilities. There wes a desire for analysis of what
rood city citizenship meent in a denocracy.
There vere elso s number of uestions about the var-
ious civic orger izations, sucl cs the Mational Junicipal
Teague in 'ew York. The cuestioners vere vague about
the activitios of such orgrnieations end whether they
should be involved in roliticel cctivities such as
parties engage in. The wonon, es usual, were interested
in hearing about women's club cctivities in the United
States. (ne youn nan asked me vhrt was done in farm
areas in the finited tatec t stimulete thinking about
civic and rolitical issues.
Another uestioner e whvt ni ht be cone where
 meyor refused t e reovle the ri ht to attend city
council or similer cssenblies en observers. I was
later tols thet iyomi he been troubled with this
problen; thnt some mayors Lel elosed sessions because
they did not went the Conmunists to cit in on the
meetinrs. ror et  could ather, this fear was
rether extree e it xule seen thet the neyors!
ections in barrin  ulitors from innocuous neetings
wes not the  es ht of cleverress. hile the Tohoku
Ares hae he  pood shrre of repstrietes fron ussian
territory,  vns tol s at the ty jority had settled
lown at hone on Cor otten ll : bout joining the
Communist Port. eenuse or ea cntreme poverty
vhich t e veople in this pre: eve experienced from
tine te time, Shove we bee  trecition of extreme
leftist orposition.
pe poso prominoct physician in
Shiosarw i roporte t te  reuber or thoe sommunist
Perty. mar ply  crty  ber wo prrive politicelly,
ond nor e member er the  e or se counelt s whe  iteke
leftist erailment trial.
Also reflectin t e or esite satre  in this
cron re the rerort os p  ce  we o type
bureeueret.pe rese co ee l  thre tie
parre  ehe effeet ef pe ove to -lover buresuerats
ens. to  certein eutet, t eob pw  the lower
ectolon. e krs recestly sotice
te r 'evey on the
port of tbe burerwercey to poweee to t ce tiahewrnded
pre-wer ettitu le of  s pre the oveese out" rether ther
the cenrr tios sne tre i erl of  ciw servante ef the
peonle. t e notieer bie e s may o sre westions
ir t e cise csson preou verleeter  elues ce on the
port teeato
eity oer lo.
onclusions

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 10 -
Conclusions
Beccuse of iyagi's position since the Restoration
nlus the relative beckvardness and times of poverty and
hariship in the aree, it vould soem that democracy, par-
ticularly s viewed throush the new local autonomy law,
will heve : more difficult time then clsewhere. There
is  noticeeble tendency to polarize here. On the one
hand, there is  clicue of the extremely conservative
well-to-co who still have control of the purse strings
and locel government. On the other hand, there is a
group of youn men und the poverty-stricken who are
casy prey for the extrene left. Like most Japanese,
the reople are apt to be short tempered and quick to
exercise their richt of protest. This is the story
of the Communist vete in  iyari n well cs the amazing
use of the reccll.
Here elso the women see to be encountering more
ifficulties. The male popul tion, more conservative
then some other ress, vicw the rise of women into
politics and vovernment vith considereble misgiving.
Added to thet, the fama women have a rily work load
such rs to lerve them little time to study the problems
of the day.
The problom is Purther complicete: by intense
feelinrs which the people harbour towere each other,
no doubt whippe up durin: the lons perioc hen they
were the sten-chiluren of Japen. Jone of the recalls
seem ss much due to local friction and antegonism es
for the surfece reesons.
To countor She pdverse fretors, thore cen be found
o lerge portion or tristiers in thie erer extending
beck twe or tiree unered yeree he ete  esreune sent
his seeret missior to lome. cenci erntlo mumber of
the civie ler ers in ieste t rougi: their discussion 
for-siehted vier. of tie problems they Sree in making
emocrecy live in  an. It io my opinion thst the
strugrle for denaerecy in this crer will be mueh more
intense. Feu cl co'serv tisr  trsdition will prove
a much creater stunblins tloer. it ts yet too early to
assesa tho ultincte cutcone ir iy i. me strone fector
for success ill te the ettitude of the ryors cnd other
elvie lecdere t the conrerence.  believo thnt the
vrst pw jority will prove  pro possive influence along
these lines.  owever, it  ust be coneluded thet 
minority yo not prreciate :s yet se cuventares or the
open sensions  tbhs vilin e cow:cil or the inclusion of
either ce they believe
voun blood i civie retivities.
Toe  pe the
in the inelucion t vomen tn policies.
bottles et a
allian ..acistretti
Anorien Vice Jonsul

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.89)
Enclosure No. 1 to Despsteh No.
841 dat kmecember 2, 9k9,
from USPOLAD, Tokyo, subjost:
"Civil Affairs Conferense at
Shiogama".
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department's use only)
Yokohame Brench,
(ffico of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohama, Japan, November 25, 1949.
The Honorable
Villiam . ebeld,
Acting United stctes rolitical Adviser,
Poko, .
sir:
Referonce in nte to this office's despatch dated
Octobor 14, 1949, transmittins a copy of a Memorandum
Report preparo by Poreign Jervice fficer illiam .
HAoistnetTt re mrding a trip he rade to Uji-Yamada with
e Civil Affeirs Torr of the a hth Ammy.
r. apistretti he completed similar trips to
iyeri refecture  to yushu. There is enclosed
 copy of his rorort date ovember 4, 1949, regarding
the iyepi trip. Twe sepsrate reports on the yushu
trir will be forwarded to the  ission in due course.
Io will be note chat s e loeel cutonomy program
hes not met with the nrne success in  iyegi as in other
narts cf Jeyam. he reletive beelavertness end poverty
of the pree  ove contributed to the cifficulties ex-
recience elseut ere.
r. tctretti believes that
the strue le  on ere ey i  irri vill be intense.
.espectfully yours,
1tcher
cierel
rclosure:
siguc
bur

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No.
841 dated mcomber 2, 1949, from
CONFIDENTIAL
USPOLAD, Tokyo, subjest: "Civil
(For Department's use only)
Affairs Coaference at Shiogamm".
MEMORANDUM REPORT
lovember 4, 1949
Subject: Locel Government Conference at Shiogama.
The conferer.ce at .iogama is another in the
series conducted by the  egel und Governnent Section,
Civil Affeirs  ivision, Eighth Army, for the purpose
of accueinting people with their ri hts end duties
under the new local cutonony law nd to assist them
with: specific problems of city overnment in dis-
cussion groups. Details of the vey such conferences
are hendled ere iven in my Hemorendun Report, dated
October 10, 1949, on the conforence held et the city
of Uji-Yamada.
embership of the visiting group of lecturers
included r. Cecil . TILTor, hief, Legal and Govern-
ment Section, Civil  ffairs ivision, Headquarters
Eighth Army; r.  icheel . oLA of the same section;
Mr. J. I. ILoox, Legal end Government Officer, Tohoku
Civil Affsirs Rerion;  ejor . . HacLAlGHIIN, Legal
ena Covernnent Cfficer, Twate Civil Affsirs Teem; and
the vriter.
Tile the rcent city of erdai (epproximately
30 minutes way) is v stly nore important in Hiyagi
Frefecture, mhiorn ws selected in crder to cvoid
duplicetion, rs a conierence on the prefectural level
had heen held et endei the yeer before. Shiogema's
porulrtion of 4l,coo is ncinly enreged in fishing,vith
some crriculture renpesented. Pheir pre-wer export to
the United trates wrs sees oysters.  understand this
export trece is rer in vell uncer vey.
There is the
usurl smatterin" of sre ll cho"s ceterin to the needs
of the tom.
Althouri. ths fipst town to be borsbed by our b-29s,
with:  lons o 7 luildin s, there is little todey to
in icrte the hembed erer. hhe towm cives the pppearance
of oxictin" in the cirt of te pres.  Yor this reason
(inelucinr : vereretI Paner se problen) nd frecuent
cl.shes betueen
ITAL

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.90)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
clashes between Japanese merchont sailors and United
States troops, the towm was placed "Off Limits" to all
allied personnel shortly after Occupation and has con-
tinued "Off Linits" dowm to the present.
In spite of the former backwardness of the town,
the mayor end civic officials have put into motion a
very ambitious port improvenent and city zoning plan.
Vork is already under way on one of several piers which
will accomaodete ships up to 12,O0o tons. The mayor
has secured tie support of American shipping agents in
Yokohama becruse the position of Sliogame on the Great
Circle Route saves their ships ot least seven hours
travel time over the mort of Yokohema. At the present
time a number of sli s put into the rort, but cargo
must be unlon e by li hters. Tour years hence, with
completion of the iers, a grester flou of such traffic
is anticipated.
Together with the materi lisation of the new piers,
zoning restrictions in the ewer creas of the town will
give it e moder cosnorolitan nir. Streets are being
widened. Street li-nts ere being set up. Building res-
trictions will make for fine-lookin: modern shops. For
those desirin e contrest, the older midcle-age area of
the city will be left untouched.
Tr. Tetuji Shk, mayor of Shiouna, is himself
typical of the developmont of his birthplece. An alert
cha aetive neyor, he hae been the metivating force be-
hind the strives the towm hes mare. r. Sakurei's father
ectablicned t e fe ily forture trourl orerating houses
of cssirstion.r. alurei, educcted at asede Univer-
sity in To'ye, la not sevor thir type of business.
Immedistely upon his frt er's decti he sold out the
femily interests   bou it  vecetable wholesele house.
He the" beceme petive in the Shamber of Commerce. But,
it wes not wntil rfter tihe wr tat he became neyor.
This is now his secoud term in ffice, nd it is antici-
reter thrt he will e clected crcin.
The meetin conve a shortly cter nine o elock,
ovember 1, lete, in th culitoriwn of the Third Crammer
chool, with  nryore  civie lea ee in cttendance.
As is usurl, she novor or tho Most city presided end in-
tre ueee the more jy ortens meyore Srom  iyagi refecture.
Jolonel Poim V. Adott) er th fonoku ivil mfeirs tegion,
. ames hox .vecil . TiLo made brief
sreeckes re evin: tre pumes ws the conference. lext
folloved the v rtous preeehen pre ree by egrl sad
lovernte t ) ctier, ivil
vios vinion, endouerters
Meat Arry. nrsrme e t ese mrtericls ove been
covered an v for er ve eprt, notice will bo taken only
of yerretions sorre seer y e iveduer eyou kers.
P.erl

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
-3 -
Mr. Micheel E. MOLAN, a ichigan attorney and former
Trobate Judge, now a member of the Legal and Government
Section, discussed the mayor's position under the new
local autonomy law. He pointed out that the mayor has
both local and national duties, such as the rice collec-
tion. Shoul the mayor fail to carry out these duties,
he can be forced to do so by  rit of Mandamus. He
stated the reccll hed been i lely misused: about 300
mayors have been recalled, and approxinately 1,000
meyors have resirned voluntarily in the face of a
possible recall. It should be noted parenthetically
that both r. Tolen cnd r. Tilton adnitted this mis-
use was due in part to thoir former speeches in which
they hed introduced the recall system to the people.
r. "olan stated thct r. Tilton ves in fevor of the
recall end esired to see it continued as a part of
the locel rutonomy lew.
It should be note: thet r. Tilton vas prinerily
responsible for ritin this lew end having it passed
by the niet. r. olan tol the cudience thet the re-
call wes like  lose of strong medicine -- only to be
used in extreme cases. lle consicered the main cause of
the trouble to be the lock of finences. In his opinion
the Shouy Report, throuri providing more money to the
locs1 arees, vould afford considereble relief. (General
MacArthur has se t  lotter of instruction to the Japa-
nese "iet to adopt this report, but as yet it has not
been incorporated.) le urged the people to remember
that their mayor wes not responsible for this lack of
funds, but rather the reason is to be found in the
archsic tax system unchonged for 50 years. They
shoul not be unduly disturbed by minor mistakes in
adninisterin the loccl cutonomy low, but should
realine thrt it will to ke yorvs to perfect its opera-
tion.
urin the course of the efternoon, Major HacLAUGliLIN,
in discussin city assenblies, mace the point that they
coul be cut pprovinetely fifty pereent et considerable
sevins to the Japenese texp yer. Tr. "olee nd others
confirmed the sbhorelly lare sise of the Japanese
aspemblies ar conmcred to the Uhited Jtates.  thervise,
the ejor's sreeets Pollove. tie yreeered meterial.
'r. Tilton evieted in hin speecl. on independent
corrittces to point out the meccscity in loesl govern-
rent Por sue concittees, perticulerly the inspection
comnittee. o mhde thwe ther shoul te ct leest one
strong ferrlees wovspeoer ir ore city desipred to pre-
itios o" she leetion man apers cominittee, he stated
that everyone s srtiefied exeept Jtelin. Lowever,
the results neve beer someu.at wheven. . e cxqpressed
the hope thet more pttention toute be  : i to the wey
in vich
DOITRNENTIAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4 -
in which recall petitions should be drawn up indicating
that in some places petitions have had fraudulent signa-
tures.
iscussin~ the public safety commission, required
under the police law, he stated that the commission -
not the mayor - ives orders to the police force. He
referre: to General : scArthur's letter to the Prime
inister of Septemi or 194? as beinr en excellent dis-
cussion of the relative functions of the city police
and the netional murel police. It should be noted that
this listinction is cuite bothersome to the Japanese be-
cause in t e past they heve lveys had one centralized
police system. Some of the Japanese officials I con-
tacte informrlly sked me cbout the vay in which the
city police cn the state police co-operated in the
United Stetes. T.ey state thst in  iyagi Prefecture
there vere feirly frecuont scuabbles between the national
rurel police s thc city or villege police over juris-
diction where a criminrl, initirlly under tle jurisdic-
tion of the ational rurel police, hed fled into a city.
ipperently there is : rather unbendin" attitude in res-
pect to essertion  jurisliction d ower.
I connection vith t.e volice, it should also be
"oted that both ccupation cnd Jananese sources told me
that, at least in so for as for: went, the police were
bein crilled nd vere rctin: somewhet similar to the
former Jopanese army. Cne instance cited to me was
that tle radustion ceremony of the police seademy was
conducted exactly in thc same vey as the raduation
cerenonies nt  militery eescemy.
r. Tilton conclu ed it. the thou ht that these
forercing five lectures  ive thc reo le  sumery of
roo locel roverment. ost imortit in his opinion
wes the poper levote to the citisen, his ricnts and
duties, bec use lenocrocy pleces the most responsi-
b'lity on the citise :mt hone cr orecpe thet res-
nonsibility if they cre to rve eae demeeracy.
Purine the interin between too speeches rnd the
first incussion rour, I  the o portunit of
telvinr vith tha Vice r yor cf hiogene. Le tola me
there wes  censicerrbie une loyment problem in
Shioseme: the city ime of 4oo out of work, and there
probably veye many nore wo were eshamed (in typical
Jepenos srebion) to inform the c ty cuthorities. The
city ef thiorr nr vre cuffered co eiderebly beceuse
the rrricipete: income fro srrdines feileo to ncteri-
slise this yeer. Por some re: son the yi-ld ves wnex-
rectedly sarll. eeause of their  ependetce on the ser,
the peorle ex eri  ce eyeler of pros rity che roverty.
irst

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
-5-
In my first discussion group, a woman spoke about
the problem of recelcitrant taxpayers. Although efforts
have been made to appeal to their conscience, she stated
 number of people still were concealing tax information
and not paying. There is a tradition of tax evasion in
some areas in Jepan, and a need for educating the people
further along these lines. Some sources indicate that
the mein reason for the tax yield in the past year or
two has been that Military Government despatched per-
sonnel to supervise the collection.
An older men from one of the villages stated that
he felt the people were ready to assert their rights,
but shirked their responsibilities. He felt a need for
educetion to awcken then to their responsibilities as
goo citizens.
woman spoke up to sey that farm women
had no time between their household- and farm duties to
read newspopers or keop thenselves infor:ed on local
issues. (This cuestion re-occurs frecuently according
to egal end Governnent personnel.) A school teacher
aske how they could meintain school discipline if they
did not have the ri nt un er the new law to administer
some corporal punishment.
One youn man erose to comp lein that the mayor of
his tom would not proint younger men to the various
boards or city rctivities, but filled all such appoint-
ments with old men. le sai thet the young men's
cssociation, which he heeded, desired to participate,
an throuchthct porticipotion essure continuity in
civic projects.
In this connection, ohe of the younger Jepanese
men ttached to the Toholu Herionrl Goverment Team
tol me efter t e meetiny thet iyeri refecture tended
to be ex remely conserv tive. The clder men (in feudal
Jepanese tredition) eyt political power to thenselves
snà looked with disfevor on the young men's egitation
to be taken in. Extrene excrplos of ultra-conservative
caritelism were to be foun in the wealthier men of the
towns en villeges. This crused : reaction towerd the
left, rnd in times when the erops or fish yield failed,
the people hrve votec the vonmmunist Perty ticket. This
happened not beccuse ttey understoo: enythin about the
Perty, but morely es a protest vote because they felt
there wes no other wey to register suci. a protest. This
is the socicl Cabric reinst which: democratic practices
in city vovernnent in  iye  rust be woven.
To Purthor conplieete the problom,  iyeyi un the
Teholni aren irs bee reterte und breiaver pres since
the  eiji rentovction.  telked t lenth with Ir.
imctsu
meyror of Jendri, 4 crpable ofriciel
Forred in

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
reared in the hard-bitten school of practical politics.
His former activities have included functionary posi-
tions in government bureaus in Tokyo; Ward Master of
two Tokyo Vards; a bureau chief in Prefectural Govern-
ment; and Mayor of Sendei on an independent ticket. He
appears to be grooming himself for governor. He is a
shrewd and clever politicien. One indication is that
he never calls his subordinates on his buzzer system.
le dislikes answerin" buzzers himself, so never uses
it but rather cells them on the telephone. Further,
unlike the vast majorit of Japanese officials, he
will not deliver  vmitten speech. He writes his
speeches himself, and delivers them as if extemporane-
ously and very effectively. The nayor told me that
Kiyegi and the Tohoku Ares ves reelly defeated twice.
The first time ceme t the time of the Teiji Restora-
tion when Toholu forces supported the Shogunate and
were defeated. As a result, Tohoku has been in a
position somevhet similar to our South after the Civil
Wer. The meyor tol: ne thet, :s e matter of policy,
only ilapideted cers were placed in Tohoku service
by the Government railways. Other discriminatory
measures were cited. Little opportunity was to be
found in Tohoku - Tolyo controlled the best in govern-
nent end universities, while the Kensai ( est Japan)
Irer claime: : vast s are of Japan's business. Tokyo
Jid drein off the foo n natural resources of Tohoku
but reve he cree noti:in in returm, end little or no
opportunity to develop inlustrially or otherwise.
One instance cited by the Heyor vas that Sendai had
no stocl: exchsnge; hed never bee: peumitted an exchange
in pre-wer days. e misse the first day of the con-
ference beceuce he b to re etiste for establishment
of  stock enchenre in Jendsi. lis feelin and ettitude
were very similr to thet of cuthermers who cleim the
beclkvorchese f the Jouth is due in large meesure to
diseriminetion treinet the outi rs : result of the
Civil er.
However, it shoul bo note t at Sendei likewise
has great plers for the future. ne cited by the mayor
wes the esteblislnent  teurist Lotels.iyegi Pre-
fecture hes het surines pn seouic prees never exploited.
Arother projeet  lrer y un er  in the development of
a Iarae city p rk. (ther lamr epeern sonin eno civic
"evelonnente  we r hat y bombing urins the
wer. Te center ce ainess n rrts e the femous
costle vore estroyer.  cod portion of the city has
now been rebuilt or tho fhi:sy woocen type post-war
builaine. endai  the ceoter of en rmy post,
tourist
me worieultueri trre prior te the wer.
urin the
COEE P TIAL

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.93)
CONFIDENTIAL
-7 -
During the evening we had dinner with Mr. J. M.
ilcox of the Tohoku Civil Affeirs Region, formerly
an attorney in Florida. An interesting commentary on
the extent to which new civil rights and liberties
are being exercised was revealed in the fact that
only seven or eight writs cf habeas corpus have been
sworn out in the yeer or two since civil rights and
liberties were ritten into the Japanese law. r.
Vilcox commented that Jepanese lawyers seem absolutely
disinclined to utilize this right. Messrs. Tilton and
"olen felt thet members of the section of SCAf respon-
sible for this le islrtion had not publicized it through-
out Japan in the nenner in which they have been educating
the people reger in the new locr1 cutonomy lew, and hence
the results of non-use.
Another probler. comnented upon uuring the evening
was that of tie force rice colloction. Earlier some
Japanese comment ha been male thst it was extremely
ifficult in  number of creas to supply the government
esteblished rice quots. Sone hac to buy rice on the
black market in order to meet their cuota. r. Tilton
ex-ressed the opinion thet the whole progrer: was unrea-
listic, and such high-han'e neasures were no longer
needed. He felt that the meesure was being forced
through by Soar policy officials who never moved out
of tleir offices cnc clubs in Tokyo to find out vhat
the resl situction was. It should be noted that ir.
"olan confirmed this "Ivory Tower" criticism of SCAP
policy alon other lines. lie clained that adverse re-
ports were stopped in channels before they reached SCAP.
y former reports of conversctions with ilitary Govern-
ment officiis confirm this criticism.(See Yokohama's
Confidential espstchh o. 16, "s lysis of Recent
Chenses in ilitery over ment trueture in Japen",
deted septenber, 1949.)
Arot er subjcct cf interest wrs the ev position
of the prefecture cac the city un or the mo locel
sutonomy law. The effect of t.o lav, pccording to Ir.
olen, is to plrce the prefecture in vele tively the
some nosition rs th Arericr county in so for as ed-
ninistrative Duictions d : etivitios cre concerned.
Prine eumhcsis is plcced os the municipclity which,
like the Anericc" Lwnicay lity, rs both. locrl and
covermmentel (rraarrily toure e nrtionel overn-
ment with she  cofecturs :a  mere chcrnel) functions.
Cl.crtere for these munici clitior were ronted et one
time ith the promulotion o the leerl cutonomy lew.
Hovever, one of the besie ifricultien lies in the fact
t'irt the tex systen a s not reviced :t the sane time.
The peselt se been tiat t.e city re new, enlrrged
Purctions an resuopsibilitiee, tut the tax systen
supplier t e e  co ortion ef m sre ollar to the
city,
L

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 8 -
city, an amount entirely insufficient for its new obli-
gations. The same large portion goes to the prefecture
hich now has no need for so much money. A Japanese
member of one of my discussion groups claimed that con-
siderable tax money went unused in Miyagi Prefecture.
One disturbing factor concerning Hilitary Government
work in Miyagi vas little hints here and there in our con-
versetions that some of the Hilitary Government Team
commenders had not been of proper calibre for the job.
One instance as cited of a Colonel who considered him-
self "emperor" of the crea he had charge of, and acted
accordingly, ettempting to keep even Occupation per-
sonnel from cntering.
However, the Tohoku Region Teans have now all ceased
activities as of the first of Hovember, and the Tohoku
Civil Affairs Region is functioning in Sendai. The
change-over here occurred one month before schedule be-
ceuse it wes felt such en interval would be needed for
inventorying nd "housekeeping". The present complement
of the Region is: one full Colonel in charge assisted by
a jeutenant Colonel end five nlisted Hen. I was unable
to scertain the exect number of civilians employed, but
would cuess that they number approximstely twenty or
thirty. I understand this is the normal military and
civilien complement of the new rerions.
In every discussion group on the second day, Nov-
ember 2, 1916, there were cuestions about recal1. Cne
particulor inntcnce illustrctes the misuse of this de-
vice. In  certain villere the nayor introduced a bill
proposin- the construction of  nci school. The assembly
duly passed t.e bill, n the meyor proceeded to carry
out their instructions. Thereupor, the women's club
insticeted  novonent to reccll the nayor, ane he was
recslled by cbout 270 votes! one in orments told me
thet the cctusl isnues went beyone the sclool; that
there was consicereble yersoncl fecling sgeinst the
nayor involved. I: c ition, there s criticisn of
the women's cetivities in conncetion with the recall,
the nale sreckers feelin the vxnen locked proper ex-
perience.
mother problen roeented e that of support of
schools rs terchers. An clderly gentlonen indicated
thet the cities rn villrres in many inste ces feund it
imposaible to rsise t. .e fwnts to construct a school or
sunport the terchers. e vler 'ec thct Joki cive con-
siheration to a retur to the ole systex whereby the
vovernment rllocated funes ror sehools rnt the peyment
of terchers. le tole me thet the prefecture had ade-
custe fun is but coulc not pive the loesl schools support
under the new eysten.
In e nunber
TOFIETTLAL

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 9 -
In e number of the groups, civic leaders questioned
me about what constituted a good citizen. Their attempts
to drew me out on this subject indicated a feeling that
the people generally were not aware of their civic res-
nonsibilities. There was a desire for analysis of what
rood city citizenship meant in a democracy.
There were also a number of uestions about the var-
ious civic orgecizations, such s the Hational lunicipal
League in Hew York. The cuestioners were vague about
the activities of such organizetions and whether they
should be involved in roliticel activities such as
parties engage in. The wonen, es usual, were interested
in hearin sbout womon's club cctivities in the United
States. (re youn nen esked me vhet vas done in farm
areas in the United tates t stimulate tlinking about
civic n rolitierl issues.
Another cuestioner asked what might be done where
? mayor refused the people the right to attend city
council or similer assemblies as observers. I was
later tols thet  iyagi had been troubled with this
problem; that some mryors held closed sessions because
they did not want the Cormunists to cit in on the
meetinrs. Fror Whst I could rather, this fear was
rether extreme and it would seen that the meyors!
ections in barring auditors from innocuous meetings
was not the hei-ht of cleverness. While the Tohoku
Area has ha? & good share of repatriates from Russian
territory, I was tol thet the hsjority had settled
doum at home an forgotten all about joining the
Conmunist Party. ecause of the extreme poverty
which thc people in this pree cve experienced from
time to tine, there us been e tradition of extreme
leftist opposition. The most prominent physician in
Shiogama is rerorte, to be  member of tihe Communist
Party. The only Iarty tenber to prrive politically,
however, hes been Tatsuji Fusi of vomori Irefecture,
e mer nationclly moum in his on ri ht as a lawyer,
cad nov e member cf the defense couneil at the  itake
leftist cerailmont trial.
Also reflectin t e orposite extrene in this
crer ues the report of reour ence of the old type
bureaucrnt. (ne J cnese source tel ne thet the
rurce be the effect of renovin top-level bureaucrats
end, to c certein entent, ti ereby elevetine the lower
echelon.e hrs recently notice teidency on the
rert of the burecuereey to revert to their high-hended
pre-wer attitu e of " a rrr the overmment" rether than
the ceuprtior ine: ire i er1 of teinr servants of the
people. It s noticerble thvs mrmy or the cuestions
ir  e cise ccio: rous reflected  reluctrnee on the
port of the peoyle te  ess their new vi hte vith the
city or tea: is.
Jonclusions
2A)

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.87)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION/OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
1493
…TON：F
to-NA
no acivi
lec15, 49
nt
10
DE
1.℃
894.00/12-649
3E
FILED
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.85)
7E-COR
INCÓMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DIVISION O
1
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
1924
n Assigned to -. DEC 2 1 1949
 Taken n actm
S USL To.
1teu:
Decaver y, 1949.
Dec 21,49
ave of
of Actic
Li: Not known
NA
CRT
cived: Dec. 16, 1949 11:33 am
1
BA
ACTION
secret of .
FE
894.00/12
INFO
ashin bon
DCR"
ss
351, rece or. 194
G
L
 Ic ro HrA. Vic imst or Foreign ffairs, called upon
EURX
etis
ttea that ne led been in-
EUR
strueteu r
nis  to vise e concerning
OLI
certain st t e:s wit. ee t: oreign afrcirs whic re Yosnd da
CIA
prorses se w i is
tes to the Diet on December 13.
-9
P
r. bteint he  et somunist re t is meking
949
serious erfort  csry.   e  me people thet only by an
"overail pcece  et"  it  sible for Ja an to survive in
the future. he ate ta  trtef of the Corurdst larty calls
for the sprd o prope e  e. se ecasiness mo tae people
by implyinp  ir   tusci tors het accece to the peace
treety d  s  s o  be siject to the consant
threat of a so t oce n i s u  tcnd tat, on the other hand,
once soviet  h  d e t. t i peace with Jan, us
threat will s eer. 'oneonican! wit a peace trect. of the kind
envisaged  tae   tar uy, te i ediate withdrewal of all
United  ts trops rro p.  peoe necessary.
  r sae
P'rine iit.r ar  i to  voe  two slogans: " peace
treaty wibo  ely  e ur with ae euy pesers 
possibled, n te tatse eorse the vore tast (n oriuy) ocing
S5
us ed snsteeo o s ex s n   neuce r onta further
explained rt   Hinister is e. ly eware of the delicate
nature of t is ubese ut in vi of n strenuous ofrorts snde
 the per  uis e reets  countr cupsigaror 
sasi   slc   sr o rest r is
amen  perr  s  erter es
16
Jaran 
5
72
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—ThIs copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo's351,
Deceuber 7,191.9.
2
I tolu r. Cita that t is matter was, of course, one for
determination  the Japanese Jovernaent but that 1 should like
to cake the observs tion vht publie discussions of peace treaty
matlers uouer prcsent condicions are frauyht wit considerable
denger of c etiny misun erstansin s abroad and that it might be
well if sueh dise lesion sers heid to an absolute miniown.
BD

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
FILE
894.00/12-949
RECORD COPY
A-35I FROM TOKYO
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A  DESPATCH
TELEGRAMAIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
1.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
C
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.89)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
&c/n-1
DEPARTMENT OF STÀTE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
1924
USPOLAD, Tokyo.
ited:
Dece.uer 9, 1949.
jave of
Nct Known
tved: Dec. 16, 1949 11:33 am
1
BA
ACTION
FE
INFO
DCR"
ss
L
er of oreige freire, cailed upon
EURX
 .thad bee in
EUR
tose concerning
OLI
i rLes hic e. Yesin de
CIA
es to sne der en Sece ber 13.
P
o ist let is mking
woe baee ony be an
Fo n te survive in
s t iarty calls
ao. e people
 the peace
to the corstant
etherhend
1.13
ekind
xi
S
E
00
Oat
Dist.

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokyo's..-351,
Deceaber 7, 191.9.
2
I told  r. Unta that tis malter was, of course, one for
determination by the Japanese lovernment but that 1 should like
to make the observation uht public discussions of peace treaty
matters unuer present co dit ons are fraught wit. considerable
canger of c enting misuns erstansings abroad and that it might be
tell if sueh diseussion mere cld to an absolute minimum.
.BD

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.80)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
1949
2309
US. OL.D, Tokyc.
be o
mailin:
Dese. ber l0, 1v4s.
::0. 20,1949 10:20 
1.
894.00/12-
2
FO
DOR
二
SA1
PUR
BsLeuue PoT
:111 01its
CTA
x ero
135
AN
PC3
so
349
Ch: 1
p. jiro
AH
N
HL
DIr
t
∴2
FILED
1949
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
工

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.77)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
MG
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
C
PN 
1945
2
2307
TICN: FE
LHFO
D.R
0.1
 o.
C14
nm Pec24144
P
p r 16, 10s.
208
irelNA
u free
De2. 20, 1949 10:20 a.n..
lile
894
e oore roy
 ler pr ty mniri.io.
0
1
Yest14.
1349
T. Jeeretary
Gener)
tiet
erse
olitio
t. co licionist
feetie.
D. 
心
hoe
rite
1
E
∴3
FILED
っ
王
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.80)
RAF
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
300
File
DclR
Io
on Taken -- -
2311
. .D, Toyo.
Jate or A
Dato of
ActionC
11in : Jec.er 16, 1049.
Name c
ea:d: De0. 20, 1949 10:20 am
894.00/1
ON
Jeeretu of tte,
snin on.
-36, Dc1r 
2
neferenee ti is . lesluny - ea v Deee ber 1s.
       .
s reoult of is eutsiv tion clled
5
549
tie o Les pes de fer . ll at f soe d
veeler blon of  J encee seo co ty wes inam ureten.
 oiyu  , or er pinei I er he fokyo rirst
i Ler sohool, was e ceteu st air r t. e ar o niz
ion,iohr tkan ftl or t atrn tioI
Federaeion o seli i vus er . Laciens sn: ioo
Y   of uhe Je ider t ton of s o hioe  s
to ry  vice- ilme
she ne. or alzutiou us deuiled to se d ess. es
to t  r nci or  Vr st Joi sion
cr to t Ve sics, us  ll s to v  os poaee or ani.
sutiors thre heut e orl  ns   est lie o
of p  b     d  s
treat
v. llable torer bi i vic.  e there 
to  unl t   
evi
ove.ntl.outil
o for bae or o  fot o  or wler so is
C
S
FILED
A
19
5
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R cetral files with notation of action taken.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.95)
The Convention of Regular Baptists of British Columbia
"SET FOR THE DEFENCE OF THE GOSPEL
RECE VED
CORRESPONDING SECRETARY
TREASURER
REV. F. J. CARTER
H. J. WITTER
S114 GRAVELEY STREET
. A. LEE
2878 EAST 2ND AVENUE
VANCOUVER. B.C.
2458 EAST HASTINGS STREET
VANCOUVER.B.G
1949 DEC 27 AM 10 46
VANCOUVER. B.C.
ACTION
OIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
is assigned to
DC/A
DECB11949
RECORDS BRANCH
December 20, 1949
American epartment of tate,
D/
Washington, D.C.
Dear sir:
894.00/12-2049
Our Convention has been advised to undertake assionary work in
Japan while waiting for conditions in China to become ore stable.
We would like to get full informat ion as to conditions and
possibilities, and what we would be required to do to undertake such work.
1
The Amrican Cousulate General at Vancouver, B.c. has advised to
comminicate with you concerning this matter.
Any information y u can give will be extremely important to us
and would decide, or help us to dec ide, what action we should take if any.
Yours truly,
F.J. boiter
CS/
F.J. carter
C
Secretary to the Convention.
00
Re
Oat.
Biet.
232554

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.80)
NAfleT
Lenember 29, 1969
wear Colonel Lynoh:
her . forwaried ner ith an exohange
of vorperpandenee hetween thie ofrine and
the coneenti n or epular soptiete of Hritich
olmbia.
it wou  reeited if your offlee
woul Turntsh the onvention with the informa-
tien it renue: to soneernin the unscrtaking
of mirionary orx in Japan.
Rireerely yours,
. Alexis Johnson
eputy Ireater,
uffiee of wortheant ien ffaire
anoloeures:
r toon
smb,   
etler to onventien from
cpt.
(00; y)
olonlLyn
lafcori nttion rno
 iar or the nuer eoret ry
t r  y.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
Desember .
Dear Colonel Lynch:
There is forwarded herewith an exchange
of correspondence between this Offise and
the Convention of Regular Baptists of British
Columbis.
It would be appreciated if your offise
would furnish the Convention with the informa-
tion it requests conoerning the undertaking
of missionary work in Japan.
Sincerely yours,
U. Alexis Johnson
Deputy Direotor,
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
Enclosures:
1. Letter to Department
December 20, 1949 (copy)
2.
Letter to Convention from
Dept., December 29, 1949
(00py)
Colonel G. P. Lynch, G90
Chief, Reorientation Branoh,
Office of the Under Secretary,
Department of the Army.
NAM 10/00/40

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.83)
WAfullT
Deeember 29, 1949
y der Mr. arter:
your leter of  rber o to the
vegartrent or .tate connerning the propoeed
ipelonery wor or your uny ntion in
Jajan bae been referred to the hier of
the seori entation raneh of the separt-
ent of the ry for rerly. : truet you
ill be hearing fros him whortly.
ine-rely your,
Alari Johnson
. eputy ireator,
frice of worthsuet sian affairs
ev. . J.arter
lvele
Venoouver,
ritisn outis
:1::0reen:c1h 1/29/49

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
Desember 29, 1949
My dear Mr. Carter:
Your letter of December 20 to the
Department of State conoerning the proposed
missionary work of your Convention in
Japan has been referred to the Chief of
the Reorientation Branch of the Depart-
ment of the Army for reply. I trust you
will be hearing from him shortly.
Sincerely yours,
U. Alexis Johnson
Deputy Direotor,
Office of Northeast Asian Affairs
Rev. F. J. Carter,
3114 Graveley Street,
Vancouver,
British Columbia.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh 12/29/49

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
TO
: NA - Mr. Robert Fearey
DIVISION OF DATB: Decmber 21, 1949
FROM : DRF - Jane M. Alden
NORTHEAST ASIAN ALLAIRS
DEC221949
SUBJECT:
The Purge of Hatoyama Ichiro
AEF SIAE
Attached are excerpts from letters addressed to a friend of mine
(a SCAP official in the UB on leave) from TOMABECHI Gizo, BABA Tsunego,
and KOJIMA Kazuo asking that HATOYAMA Ichiro be cleared from the purge
and reinstated in political life. As you can see from the letters the
authors assume that this can be accomplished if the matter is brought to
the attention of the Dopartment of State. In passing these letters on to
you I am merely fulfilling a request from the recipient of the letters who,
because he received them in his private rather than his official capacity,
would prefer not to have his neme connected with the letters. I made it
clear to him that DRF was not a policy making division of the Department
and therefore could only pass the letters on to the policy desk. In
addition, I offered my personal opinion that the Department would not
take any action on this appeal, for a variety of obvious reasons, of
which he was fully cognizant.
Quite aside from the plea for the depurging of Hatoyama there are
894,
several interesting political aspects to these letters which may interest
you. Hatoyama was Yoshida's predecessor as head of the Democratic Liberal
Party and although Yoshida was selected by Hatoyama to succeed to the
office of party president Yoshida has been since his assumption of that
office actively opposing Hatoyama's supporters in the party and. has suc-
00
ceeded in minimizing their influence in party and government affairs.
Yoshida has, therefore, built up his own clique within the party and for
all intents and purposes appears to be estranged, at least politically,
from Hatoyama. At the seme time Yoshida apparently has little or no per-
sonal political ambitions in so far as maintaining his party or government
office is concerned and would undoubtedly retire to the position of elder
statesman if anadequate successor could be found to lead the conservative
movement. But Yoshida has not succeeded in training any candidates for
this office. Two of the men who are writing in behalf of Hatoyama are
close to Yoshida - Kojima and Baba - forming part of his unofficial circle
of advisers, and Kojima particularly is considered Yoshida's political
7
mentor. It appears likely therefore that the desire of these men that
Hatoyema be released from the purge is kmown to Yoghida and has his ap-
proval, quite possibly because Yoshida considers Hatoyama the only man
capable of loading the conservative movement.
stand. Tomabechi claims that he does not kmow Hatoyama peraonally, and
Tomabechi is, of course, the leader of the Anti-Coalition Democratic
Party. Furthermore it was Tomabechi that Isd the split in the Democratic

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Party over the issue of coalition or merger with the Demoeratie Liberal
Party. It is possible that Tomabechi's opposition to the DIP is due to
his dislike of Yoshida as a party leader and that if Hatoyama were re-
instated as head of the DLP Tomabech1 would be more inolined to join in
a united conservative party.
Hatoyama has made several appeals to SCAP and the appropriate Japanese
purge review authorities for clearance from the purge. Since he was
purged by virtue of a SCAP memorandum to the Japanese Government after
the Japanese screening committee had cleared him there is no possibility
that he will be cleared so long as the occupation remains. Undoubtedly this
is the reason why the authors of these letters are appealing through in-
formal channels for the Department of State to intercede.
Needless to say I am not suggesting that you take any action on those
appeals, but perhaps at some future date the evidence presented in these
letters may have some bearing on the entire purge question. I also have
a complete statement by Hatoyama (running to some 200 pages) which he
filed with the Japanese appeals committee to justify his contention that
his prewar and wartime activities do not constitute grounds for his purge.
OIR:DRF:JMAlden:tk

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.98)
Excerpt of a Letter From Kazuo Kojima, Tokyo, Oct. 1k, 1oh9
As you are well-aware, our country is not only suffering from
the shortage of various commodities, but the lack of able statesmen is
creating uneasiness in the political circles. At the time the Oocupation
commenced, such measures as purge was a necessity and we feel that the
decisive way in which it was conducted should receive its due praise.
At the same time, the unwonted actions of the Japanese officials
of the time left much to be desired, both the gems and the common stones
being disposed of without distinction. The recent installation of the
appeal system created by the goodwill of General MacArthur too is not
being applied in its correct form. Therefore, there have been such
strange instances as common stones being brought to light while precious
gems are still left in obscurity.
Such is the situation in which Hatoyama Ichiro, whose political
ideas, past records, kmowledge and abilities name him the most desirable
men in the political circles, is placed. Being still under purge, he is
not able to extend his abilities and the government too is unable to
utilize his service, which fact has been brought to your personal atten-
tion.
TW 89%00
In consideration of the above, it shall be greatly appreciated
if the existing facts could be passed on to the authorities concerned
in the event of your return to American, which is not only my private
opinion but also the general idea of those who are interested in the
rehabilitation of Japan.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Excerpt of a Letter from Tsunego Baba, President, Japemese Press
and President, Iomiuri Shimbun, Tokyo Cotober 15. 1949
It is my conviction that Japan has only one direction toward which
she should advance. That is to wash away the militaristic tendemoy of the past,
check the evél influence of the new militarism -- Commmmimm -- to let liberalism
infiltrate into the bottom of the heart of every individual and merge into the
world's democracies. This is the only way for Japan to beccme independent and
to contribute to the world peace.
For this purpose, it is most necessary to give opportumities for free
activities to as many liberalists as possible.
I presume that Mr. Ichiro Hatoyama, the liberalistic politician, will
appear as an important character in your detailed investigation network. Since
he was purged on the ground of en unexpected case, Mr. Hatoyama has been pro-
hibited all activities and confined to his home, amidst the world of Communistic
and dictatorial tendencies. It is to be regretted that such a capable champion
who is qualified to contribute for the reconstruction of Japan is left in such
a stato.
I shall be very pleased if the information you have obtained is the
same as mine. According to my opinion, the main factors of Mr. Hatoyama's
purge are misunderstanding, plots and the unpreparedness of evidences due
to the Japanese Government's negligence at that time. His case is the more
1M1894, 00
difficult because he was purged directly by SCAP memorandum.
Mr. Hatoyama and I have been close friends for twenty years. Though
we have walked along different roads, he being a politicien and I a critic,
we are the same from the point that we both fought against Fascism for the
sake of liberalism and parliamentarism.
During the long period of our association, I remember no instences
of casting suspicion on his faith and character. If I were to point out
his deficiency, it is that he created enemies because he was always con-
sistent to his principles. Not only were the militarists and Communists
his enemy, but there were many even among the liberalists who had animosity
against him. As is so with a person of his character, he did not avail
himself of secrets, plots or precaution. Therefore he easily fell in his
enemy's pit. I imagine that this weakness of his led him to his nlucky
purge.
I consider that if Mr. Hatoyama were released from his purge and
given freedom to take an active part in politics, it will not only be appro-
priate end effective for the protection of our country from the harmful
influence of Communism, but will be absolutely necessary in order to elevate
the standard of democracy in Japan and infuse parliementariam into the heart
of every Japanese.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
It is not my intention here to explain the various reasons of
Mr. Hatoyama's purge. That, I believe, will be cleared eventually if
given a chance for re-examination. I assume that the parties concerned
have already submitted the necessary data in details. It is my sincere
request that Mr. Hatoyama would be given the opportunity for re-examination
through your good offioes.
I hear that you will be returning to Washington shortly, which I
consider is a golden opportunity. As an individual Japanese as well as a
liberalist, and also as one who is engaged in the press, I shall be ex-
pecting your fair judgment and assistance because I have confidence in
Mr. Hatoyama that his release from purge will be valuable for the world peace
and reconstruction of Japen.
In the event of your return to Washington, I should like you to forward
the sincere desire of one Japanese to the authorities concerned there.
May I add that I have no objection if you make this letter public
and that I am prepared to stand as a witness for Mr. Hatoyama at any time
if nocesaary.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
Excerpt of a Letter from Gizo Tomabechi Tokyo, Oct. 12. 1949
Japan is getting now back to her feet from her knees out of the
nightmare of the past and wounds of the war. Truly we owe all this to the
generosities and well-conducted leadership of General of the Army
Douglas MacArthur and his staff. It is a boon of his warm friendship
toward this country and you know how our people appreciate it.
But, if we look back ourselves to what we have done or we have
been doing, we regret to find many things of which we feel remoseful.
Politics, for example. Scandals followed scandals. In the last election,
Communists have made a big stride winning 35 seats in the Diet. As things
are as now, signs are that they may make further advances.
This is partly due to the social insecurity that followed the war,
but partly this has to be attributable, I believe, to the faults made by
Japanese politicians. Japanese politicians should be held responsible,
and they have no excuse in this, if, as a result of such situation, any
harm is done to the Occupation policy in helping out this country to re-
habilitate herself.
Frankly speaking, the fact is that Japan has few good politicians.
In the last election, Liberals have won an overwhelming majority of 269
seats and the third Yoshida Cabinet was formed on that strength. As an
opposition and as a parliamentalianist, I think it is a wonderful thing
1W-894%
thing that they have won such a majority. But, I seriously doubt whether
Liberals have acted in the last session of the Diet as people had wanted
to have them to act in the light of their actual record Yoshida Cabinet
has shown in the deliberations of bills as compared with what they had
promised the public in the election.
Once the majority in the Diet fails against people's wishes, what
0
happens? Nation-wide dissatisfaction and political insecurity follow.
And, once dissatisfation and political insecurity spread, communists and
ultra-nationalists infiltrate. Only SCAP's intelligent leadership and a
right man on the job with a thorough understanding of the Occupation
principles as well as the new democratic Constitution and who is capable
enough to carry them into the actual politics, can prevent it. As you
know, I came into politics from business since the war. I am a new-comer.
But, even my short experience convinces me the graveness of this situation
in present-day Japan.
Who will be that man? Where can we find him? I recommend, as far
as I could know, that the man is Ichiro Hatoyama, a purgee. We belong to
different party. He is the founder of present Liberals and was onee its
President. I belong to the Democrats, the opposition. We are not mutually
acquainted. But, regardless of such relative position, I am firmly con-
vinced that the right thing to do under present circumstances is to place

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
such a man like Hatoyama again on the job for the sake of the progress of
democratic government in Japan. This is my conclusion not only out of my
own personal experience but a result of my repeated considerations of all
phases of Japanese political situation. Particularly I have this strong
feeling when I look at what present Liberals are doing.
I am not familiar with the circumstances he was purged. I recollect
a SCAP memorandum was issued soon after Occupation directing Japanese
Government to re-examine his qualifications but the answer was delated.
I was told that somebody wilfully had delayed submitting the report to
SCAP. Although I have no verification of this story, one thing is clear
and that is that Hatoyama is one of the few Japanese liberalists who have
coura eously opposed to the war with a world mind all throughout the up-
heavals that followed the Manchurian Incident, holding out to the last of
Japanese democratic government in pre-war days, while most of the Japanese
politicians were either subdued under military pressure, or busy in lip-
service to the militarists, or secluding themselves in disguised stag-
nation and silence. And, he was the leading figure of such "few".
Every politician has his "political foe" and I think Hatoyama is
not an exception to this general rule. In view of his past career as a
stubborn fighter against even that overwhelming power of war-time milita-
rists, surely there must be someone or some groups of men who fear his
personal character and influence. At the time of formation of the Liberals
soon after the Occupation, he made it publicly known that he is totally
opposed to communism. I can well visualize how the Japanese Communists
were shocked at that time to see the overall opposition from one of the
most progressive men of the time. There was no wonder why the Japanese
Communists looked at him as a great foe and tried to overthrow him.
Historically, it has been always a tactics of communists to entrap
opposition or oppositions one after another in a so-called "individnal
strategy". Frankly, I can say this that it is the Japanese Communists
who would most hate to see Hatoyama freed from the purge list, because
his liberation would mean a threatening blow to their strategy. As far
as we are concerned, we welcome his come-back to politics as an influ-
ential opposition.
In my opinion, a sound growth of a democratic parliamentary
government needs a strong opposition for mutual culitvation and mutual
devotion to development. Japan already has a history of 70 years of a
parliamentary government system and the reason for its immature and
iaperfection, as I see it, is that the Japanese politicians have been
much playing to pull down each other, thus falling themselves into the
political trapping of bureaucrats and militarists. When I look back to
the history of Japanese politics with my own personal experience in
actual politics, I poignantly feel here is something that Japanese
politicians should seriously introspect themselves for self-examination
of the past record. This is another reason that I earnestly want to

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
have Hatoyama back again released from the purge.
Now, things rest with you. I sincerely hope that Hatoyama can be
given an opportunity of SCAp re-examining his qualifications through your
thoughtful persuation and the State Department's appropriate action. In
the end, I wish you a pleasant trip, good luck, every success and quick
return.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
OErDIVISIoNtOE U. S. Political Adviser
25
NORTHEAST ASIAN AETAIHPan
JAN B1o19500mber 24, 1949. Wen
REC'D
JAN 3
and
ACTION
No. 902
FE ENGS (2)
UNCLASSIFIED
J9
INFO
FR
fhe
DCR
Subject: Transmission of Publication on Mission and Achievements
OLI ENC
of the Occupation in the Economic and Scientific Fields.
ITP
OFD
AGRI ENC
COM ENC
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to refer to this
TAR ENC
Mission's despatch no. 898 dated December 23, 1949, entitled "Trans-
TREAS ENC
mission of Publication on Mission ans Accomplishments of the Occupe-
FRB ENC
tion in the Nattore? Rescurres Field "
894.00/12-2449
There are new enclosed eight copies of a companion study en-
titled"Mission end Accomplishments of the Occupation in the Econones
and Scientific Fieids, which was prepared by the Economic and Scien.
tific Section (ESs), General Headquerters, SCAP, Although dated
September 26, 1949, copaes ct hs study were net received by this
Mission until recentjy.
After giving an account of the dirficultes euccuctered and the
outstanding achievements reslised in the eccnomic field, ESS states
frankly that "much remains to be don- Imports ere still slmost
double exports; and it is estimated the tlatter musr use so wer
one billion dollars annually if Japan's trade is to be balanced and
the need fer U. S appropriarmons ei mineted. Beceuse of Japan's
enlarged population  andustrial production must be rurthe in
creased by 25 per cent, 1f she minimal liwang standayds of the l4 s0-
34 target years designated by the Far Eastern Commission ae to be
approximated and the hecessary hume of forelgu thade supported.
All accompanying phases of ecomemic a civauy must show compacable
improvements
Continuing. Ess indicates  detail the specifre economie eb
jectives of the Occupation and the progress made tovards reaiizing
them. With respect to finance, io is stave? that the "prime mission"
in that field included the reorganizat on ef the chaotic finances
of a bankrupted government and the on roi or Fiscul inflation, the
liquidation of imperislistic financval institutions, and the stab.
0
lishment of sound banking and financial pracsices, together with the
reintroduction of Japan into internationa! financiai relations. The
balancing of the Japanese national budge: in 1949 30 is hailed as
an outstanding achievement, wh c rment is also made en crsdit
control, the note issue. hudgetaty controls snd banking reorganiza-
tion. of especiat interest are the fo lowing statements regarding
the resumption hy Japan of interuatioral financial relabionshaps.
"Not the teast of the probleme facing Japan in
recestablishang pearet me a omomnc relationships has
been the recoug cor on  naecial connections neces
sary to servpce ana suppore oreugn trade and enable
FAP
foreign
}-
UNCLASSIPIED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 902,
December 24, 1949.
foreign investment in Japan. With the initiation of
private foreign trade in the summer of 1947 foreign.
banks, insurance companies and other trade servicing
institutions were licensed to commence operation in
Japan, As trade grew, the original number was gradu-
ally increased; stimulated particularly in January
1949 by the er rgement of the permitted scope cf
business activities in Japan and by allowing limited
private investment under appropriate safeguards. By.
September 1949 about two hundred firms (including ac-
counting firms, airlines, engineers, banks, insurance
companies, cil enterprises, steamship agents, and
the like) had been licensed by SCAP to engage in ac-
tivities invelving the receipt of foreign exchange
in Japan. In crder to deal adequately with this very
complex financial activity in Japan in February 2949
the SCAP directed the setting up of a Japanese Fereign
Exchange Control Bcard to which authority to manage
Japan's foreign exchange and regulate specifie foreign
financial activictes in Japan, whi n bad be-r dirertly
taken over by the Crcupasion in Csteber l9t, ls being
pregressively uransferred "
In connection voth the Past sentence pa e crregong parasgruphy
it may be noted that the promutgataen and eafort ement as f Deoesaber
1. 1949. of the "Foreign Excharge and Foreign Trade Contrel Law,"
together with various ordees regulations, et etere, issued to in
plement that Law. c nstipute an imp rtant step toward the rransfer
of foreigr exahange antrtl Prom the Cupat ion t the apanese
Government (Se shus issien s despat.h . ser dated  embes 
1949 es depeneee F rerg0 e baege e ate   s w Spec
Reference tc Institution
The sectaon  frnanoe ao ledes sath a bee'  Perence to the
U.S. Aid Counteppare Furd. The oufomatton an the se tiop on takd
tion has previously been yeperted by thee te ason Hegardane price
and distributien a tivitses uf mss. it is srated tras in len9 sub
stantial procurement ef foed with prereeds fromt esperts was under-
taken for the first time. follewang 1948 foed mports of 2.190.cco
metrie tors, of whi h fuily a  te tcf t ns were porohased with
United States funds.
Owing to the wide spread interest. in payment f subsidies by
the Japanese Government to varicns induetries, whi-h has given rise
abroad to complaints of Japanese 'dumpingt f expox: goods in foreign
markets, it is believed that the fell wirg paragraph is of special
interast:
"Price Subsidies and the Stabilizasion Band. The
rise in the general level af pric es presented onekind
of problem the extremely deranged intexnatior al re-
lationship of prices yuite another. Selective subsi-
dization during the war, extremely uneven supply-
demand situations in the inmediate post hostilities
period, and ad hoc revision of price ceilings by
Japanese
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's Despatch No.. 902
December 24. 1949.
Japanese officials in response to domestic pressure
groups had created such a distorted price structure
that forward planning for peacetime markets by indus-
trial enterprises was impossible. In 1947, therefore,
the official prices of a dozen of the most important
basic industrial commodities (copper, steel, caustic
soda, fertilizer, lead, zinc, coal to special indus-
tries and the like) were established at a uniform
multiple of their 1934 36 average prices, thereby re-
establishing their normal prewar price inter-relation-
ships, and the difference between their cost of produc-
ticn and the price as determined by this stabilization
band was subsidized. Other miscellaneous subsidies
accumulate? ever the years were largely removed and
industrial prices for other than stabilization band
commodities were set on the basis of producticn costs
of the bulk of the preducers using the new band
priced commodities. Agricultural prices, in contrast,
were set on the basis of prewar parity with prices
of the commodities repuired by the fapmer. The gra-
dual res tificatlon uf exrreme d res s shertages;
the re sumptien of imports on a large s ale and the.
establishment ef the ex tange rate whieh brought to
Beer the wntlverce of worlf prices t gether with the
Liftang pf numerous vfricsel pri e  catrole has
broushe the terminataon cf this ertaficial ssabili-
ging device whirh servea  well in  eat-as, in sight.
Rene mrently price stabilacatien Eand substsaes bave
been pregresslvely aad dresei ally rea sd in lelg
end ther pete b   ted 
As soonereye dever poerrs   e e snaustry and
1949 mest Capanese cat mating mpen es mre pexatane in the black
for the first tame sinee the war an that weth effe tive demand
well sati fled at ber ane s asble  verove a from alrccatien.
Ess discusses forelgn trad and  mr 
Ess pcints out aptly that as the establashment of Japan on a
self-supperting basas is a centcal ube tave f the Sccupation econo-
mie mission in Japan se the pr ime andi aber af th ahievement of
that goal de apan s foreign trade and the pregress made in attaining
a balance of inports and exports at a leve? hagh enough to maintain
Japan s pepulation at a living sandard cendue ve o the preservation
of free institutiens " mss metes lar steaiy sains have been made to-
ward the prims aim :f attainang a alarae f imperts and exports.
During the U.S. fiscat year ending tune 30, 1s49 exports were three
times as Large as during the prec edang year. reaching $487,000,000
and exceeding carlies prejections by sier coe ccc. of this total,
commodity experts amounted te 4." occ oce and invisible exports
attained a level of aa ccc coo. stmultanecus y. Ess asserts,
"the general fall in world price levels mede possible a reduction
of importe to $805, c00 c00. The resultant unfavorable balance.of
trade amounted te 318 000 000  132: 000, 000 less than the pre-
jected def1cit of $450,000 000
Regarding
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 902,
December 24, 1949
-4-
Regarding the neressity for negotiation of bilateral trade
arrangements, and the result's achieved thereunder, Ess states that
"although SCAP has favored and encouraged multilateral trade where-
ever possible, other countries have been compelled by their dollar
shortages to insure themselves against adverse dollar balances in
trade with Japan. In consequence. SCAP has negotiated a score of
bilateral trade arrangements with dollar-short countries by means
of which both parties agree to implement a balanced trade plan. This
procedure has enabled the attainment of maximim trade levels which
could not otherwise be reached " Ess ststes that a notable feature
of these bilateral trade plan's is the progressive shift of procurement
emphasis from U.S. appropriated funds to ccamercial purchases in coun-
tries which need Japanese goods, thereby approaching a pattern of
trade in whi:h Japan can be self-supporting.
Of interest in the settion in tourists and trade services are the
statements regarding invisible exports whicn are shown to have in-
creased from $18 314,000 during the 1ast half of 1948 tc $23,807.000
during the first half of 1949? In the seetion on fereign exehange
funds, special attention is invited to the fo lowirs paragraph en-
Pessy he  st  r problem
whe bae  et an  e  f cn
s he ft   s  u eey
ans.  F      
0  
Stering A
Phe ony srtcaat ar ast mer br capan hae had
was  Neth  East es   hd 
mabely  w xtes  9-49.
Sales ef raw sr k, w ad er se t sefray United
st tes cott n dar reeee  the prewer por d have
eny been xh er prear vaes Abe enly
two  n es have ke e   n
rebvely sd. a see be cf the ry c expen
ditures.
'he atel zaton f  sdunate precure
ment betweer apprepreated sort per eprroprteted funde
by means cs whech large auantaties t teutiles could
be er ld for Sterling the Sterling used oo buy food,
the fcod ao turn resead coe deklare from apprepriated
fund wbh hars wre    Amerran t
ton. (e) anvisible expeets whoch. through yen sales,
greatly ex eeded expectati ns.
A special
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
EED S1 1020
Tokyo's Despatch No. 902,
December 24, 1949.
A special section of the present ESS study is devoted to
textiles; here it is noted that. textile exports have increased
concomitantly with the general expansion of trade in the postwar
period and still remain the most important segment, accounting for
more than half of Japan's merchandise sales abroad.
The section entitled "Democratization of Japanese Business"
contains an excellent summary of action undertaken by the Occupa-
tion in that field. This section is followed by another equally
significant section on labor, wherein ESs states that the Oocupa-
tion's mission in the labor field has been primarily concerned with
the creation of conditions unden which a free and democratic labor
movement could develop; encouragement of: sound collective bargain-
ing and labor relations; creation or extension of democratic labor
legislation and administrative agencies; education of workers,
employers and government officials. in proper practices inherent to
democratic labor movement and administration; and effective use·of
Japan's manpower for purposes. of economic rehabiliation.
The final section in the present ESs study is devoted to scien-
tific and technical activites, it being noted that "most recently
the bulk of ccupation effort in the scientific field has been to
promote scientific progress in Japan along lines conducive to the
attainment of economic self sup ort " Ess states further that Japa-
nese scientists have been encouraged to parti ipate in international
conferences and scientific ventures to the degree practicable and
reports and abstrac s of all important Japanese scientific activity,
amounting to more than 10,000 technical papers, have been deposited
in the Office of Technical Services. United States Department of
Commerce.
As in the case of a similar study Issued by the National Re-
sources Section (see despatch no. 808 dated December 23, 1949), it
is stated that the present report by ss was prepared primarily for
the benefit of visiting American and other dignitaries as a means to
supplement cral briefings on the activities of the Occupation in
various fields. As a concise summary of Ess objectives and achieve-
ments, as of three or four months apt the study appears to have merit.
Enclosure:
Eight copies of publication entitled
"Mission and Accomplishments of the
Occupation in the Economic and Scien-
tific Fields."
Parchment mat to the Department.
Copy.to American Embassy, London.
020
CHBoehringer:lee
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.97)
THE PORIMGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
nated States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyg, December 31, 1949.
No. 916
hele
RESTRICTED
894.00/12-3149
Subject: Transmittal of Two Reports on Local Government
Conditions in Japan.
14
REC'D
JAN 14
ACTION
The Honorable
894.00/12-3149
Th Secretary of State.
FEmono
Washington.
INFO
DCR
Sir,
OLI-enc
I have the honor to transmit herewith for the
1/2
Department's information two reports on local government
conditions in Japan prepared by Foreign Service Officer
j
William L. MAGISTRETTI, who recently aeoompanied an
jk
Eighth Army Civil Affairs team to Kyushu for a series
of conferen us with local Japanese political leadore.
In the opinion of the Mission these reports prosent
an accurate and highly information picture of a phase
of Japanese political life which all too frequently
has been overlooked in the face of national political
problems.
As noted iy a convering communication of December 7.
3/
1949, fromithe Consul General at Yokohama, a copy of which
is tnclosed, these reports complete the coverage of the
tripe takon to date by Mr. Magistretti and by Foreign
Servioe Officer Riohard B. Finn in conneotion with local
civil affairs activitios in Japan, and the Mission avails
itself of this opportunity to vomm nd both these officers
for their work in preparing this series of reports.
Respootfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
5
FA.P
RESTRICTED
Distribution was delayed due to i proper preparation
on the original master. DC/R. 1-21-B0 cmc.
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
vecamber 31, 1949.
RESTRICTED
att
Enclosures:
1.
Report entitled "Local
Government Conference:
Nobeoka, Miyazaki Pre-
fecture dated November 23,
1949. (2 copies)
2.
Report entitled "Local
Government Conferences
Beppu", dated November 28,
1949. (2 copies)
3。
Covering despatch from
Yokohama Branch, USPOLAD,
dated December 7, 1949.
(2 copies)
Parchment Mat to Department.
350
D.Overton:mhp
RESTRICTED
Retyped 1/23/50 jom.

=== Page 63 === (confidence 1.00)
RESTRICTED
(For Department's Use Only)
MEMORANDUM REPORT
November 23, 1949
Subject: Local Government Conference: Nobeoka,
Miyazaki Prefecture.
Another in the series of local government con-
ferences, conducted by the Legal and Government
Section, Civil Affairs Division, Headquarters 8th
Army was held at the city of Nobeoka, Miyazaki Pre-
fecture on November 7 and 8, 1949. As is the usual
practice (for details see my Memorandum Report on the
conference at Uji-Yamada, dated October 10, 1949),
the first day of the Conference was devoted to the
opening ceremony and the presentation of the five
prescribed papers.
Although Miyazaki City is the capitol of the
prefecture, the present local government conference
was held at Nobeoka, largest city in the prefecture
because a former conference on the prefectural level
had been held at Miyazaki approximately one year ago.
Miyazaki prefecture is knovm to the Japanese as "The
Country of Hyuga" and figures prominently in their
prehistoric legends regarding the founding of Japan.
Through local Japanese officials and members of the
Military Government team, I learned that while these
historic attractions and hot springs account for a
fair amount of tourist trade, principally Japanese,
the prefecture cannot compete with other resort areas,
because it is so far distant from Tokyo and Osaka in
terms of travel time. The people also feel distant
from Tokyo in terms of government. The prefecture's
principal occupations are farming and fishing with some
industry located at relatively few places, such as
Nobeoka.
Approximately 50,000 of the 80,000 population of
Nobeoka work in the four plants of the Asahi Chemical
Company located within the city or the close environs.
Like any factory town in the United States, a typical
morning scene is the throngs of people walking en
masse toward their factories. The Asahi plants com-
prise a Bamberger (rayon) factory, dynamite (for
industrial
RESTRICTED

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 2 -
industrial purposes) factory, fertilizer factory and
a cement plant. Asahi Chemical officials told me that
the corporation had been diminished in size as a result
of SCAP decentralization policies, but the four plants
in Nobeoka were left as a part of Asahi Chemical with
head offices in Tokyo.
Because of these plants, Nobeoka was bombed
several times during the war with considerable bomb
damage. However, rebuilding of the frame houses has
gone forward very rapidly. Today it is difficult to
immediately ascertain the bombed-out areas. Captain
Green, Legal and government Officer of the Miyazaki
team, said that there had been somewhat of a Communist
party problem through infiltration among workers at
the plants. However, the company officials had solved
it by gradually firing or refusing to hire those with
known party sympathies or affiliations. With no other
source of income readily available in the town the
agitators had to move elsewhere. The local chief of
police confirmed that the communists were no particular
problem. According to him only about 20 of l00 Japanese
repatriates from Siberia showed any interest in Communism
once they settled in their old homes. At the present
time the Communist Party is only able to poll i% of the
votes at elections held in Nobeoka.
In contrast to this poor showing of the Communists
the Democratic Liberal Party received 58% of the votes;
the Democratic Party from l-20% and the Socialists
another substantial percentage.
The chief of the city assembly told me there was
no unemployment problem at present although he antici-
pated one in the future. This may account for some
shift toward the left. Although not directly stated,
it may be that the assembly chief had in mind the recent
lossess suffered by the farmers because of five upheavals
of nature this past year. One of the village mayors said
the rice crop was particularly hard hit. In his area
he estimated a loss of 40 to 60% because of 3 typhoons
and 2 floods. Captain Green of Military government
estimated 12 billion yen crop damage in the prefecture
and added that typhoon Dela wiped out the people's only
hard money crop; tobacco. Salt water got onto the leaf
and destroyed it. Typhoon Fay then hit their attempt
to go into truck gardening and Judith hit their sweet
potatoes. The Captain stated that the prefecture-wide
average on rice was not too bad considering the cir-
cumstances. The same is reported for the Irish potato
crop. However, he feels that the lack of a hard cash
crop will make itself felt when the people have to buy
seeds for new crops and when the time comes to pay taxes.
While Nobeoka
RESTRICTED

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 3 -
While Nobeoka has port facilities, the city does
little in the way of extensive fishing. The prefecture
itself has a number of good ports which are mainly
engaged in inter-costal trade and fishing. Aburatsu is
the center of the fishing industry. The latter industry
is active in the southern part of the prefecture. At
Honjo Mayor Uchida, a very progressive and agressive man,
has vowed to make his town preeminent in fishing through
the prefecture, and, moreover, has taken substantial
action along these lines. He is already first in the
prefecture in collecting the allocated rice; and first
throughout Japan in white potato collections.
Unlike Mayor Uchida, Mr. Matajiro Nakata, mayor of
Nobeoka, would seem to be a run of the mill politician.
Little was said about progressive city planning. How-
ever, to his credit it should be cited that he was
successful in fighting a rather obnoxious use of the
new recall system. His opponents in t he city cir-
culated petitions for his recall, but stopped just short
of the number required for an election. They then ap-
proached him and told him that, if he failed to heed
their requests, they would complete the recall petition.
However, the mayor was able to combat and overcome this
situation. Some of the prominent Japanese with whom I
talked analysed him as "not a good politician, but a
kind hearted man". It would also seem he is an astute
politician.
Certainly his speech as chairman opening the
ceremony contained the flowery language usual in such
Japanese speeches. Typical of this "behind the moon"
area of Japan, a number of the 860 persons attending
arrived late. After the mayor's speech came the usual
brief greetings from the Vice Governor of the prefecture
and the more prominent mayors. Lt. Col. Wimberley,
chief of the Miyazaki Prefecture Military Government
team spoke about his pride in what the Miyazaki prefec-
ture people had accomplished since he had taken charge;
told the people about the change-over to the Kyushu
Civil Affairs as of December lst and expressed his
sadness at leaving.
He was followed by Mr. Michael E. Nolan, senior
member of the group of visiting lecturers. Nolan, for
10 years a probate judge in Michigan and national labor
relations lawyer for a lengthy period, stressed Article
1 of the Constitution wnich treats of the unity of the
Japanese people centering in the person of the Emperor.
Speaking indirectly of the Communists, Nolan said those
who would take Article 1 of the Constitution away from
the Japanese people are the self-same persons who would
take away all their rights and liberties. He next
treated
RESTRICTED

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-4 -
treated of the subject of recall stating that it had
been widely misused in Japan, and that it was to be
used only as a final resort.' Nolan told me in private
that it was his policy to stop-gap the misuse of the
recall and give the mayors support wherever possible
unless there was some reason for not doing so. He told
the audience they should be patient with their city
officials. Not all the problems were their responsi-
bility. Rather the chief difficulty faced by local
authorities derives from the fact that the Diet has
not yet changed the 50 year old tax structure so as to
divert to cities and towns the funds necessary for their
increased duties under the local autonomy law.
At the request of Mr. Nolan the writer again gave
speech number one entitled "The Citizen in Japan" in
Japanese and was well received. In the afternoon
Mr. John Rourke, Legal and Government Officer, Kyushu
Civil Affairs Region gave the paper on "The Office of
Mayor". Several paragraphs into his speech Rourke
was forced to change his interpreter as members of the
audience stood up and insisted that they could not
understand it. Judge Koichi Inomata of the Tokyo High
Court and a member of the visiting group stepped into
the gap and did an excellent interpreting job. The
problem of securing interpreters up to the standard
required by this type of conference has been elsewhere
noted in these memorandum reports. It has been a fairly
constant problem and the success of a particular paper
has hinged more on the interpreter than on the lecturer.
Captain Green of the Miyazaki Military Government
team gave paper three on City Assemblies; Miss Alice
Burke, attorney with the Legal and Government Section,
Civil Affairs Division, Hq Sth Army gave paper number
4 on city administration and Mr. Nolan gave paper
number 5 on independant boards and commissions.
Judge Inomata acted as r. Nolan's intrepreter.
Born in Fukushima-ken, Japan, Inomata first aspired to
be a diplomat. The death of his father while he was
still in higher school caused him to abandon this ambition.
He then looked after his brothers and sisters and conti-
nued his education on funds borrowed from Fukushima
prefecture. Upon graduation from Tokyo Imperial Univer-
sity he entered government service later serving as
procurator at Nagoya and various positions as judge. He
has been liaison official for the Tokyo High Court since
the occupation. At present he is one of the Japanese
officials selected for a 90 day tour of the United
States. Because of his interest in the local autonomy
program he secured a leave of absence from the Court and
has travelled extensively with the program. An accom-
plished public speaker, Inomata consistently gained great
favor with his audiences through his ability to intrepret
the English
RESTRICTED

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 5 -
the English speeches into flowing Japanese oratory.
Later on in the series of conferences Nolan hit on the
idea of having the Judge give a brief talk from the
Japanese side as to the value of these regional govern-
ment conferences. This met with great success.
During the course of his speech Inomata pointed
out that the Japanese had suffered from a superiority
complex. Drafted as a second class private during the
war, Inomata had gone to China with misgivings whether
he would return alive, since he was sickly in Japan
which he had been taught enjoyed the best cl imate in
the world. Once in China, however, he discovered that
the climate was very fine and the Chinese people, even
after Japan's defeat, treated him very well.From this
he deduced that the Japanese people were in great need
of knowledge about the outside world. He noted that
the period's of Japan's greatest advances (Nara-Heian
period and Meiji period) were those in which she was
humble and learned from China and the West respectively.
He expressed the hope that the Japanese would not go to
some of the extremes found in the Meiji period, but
would keep their self-respect and integrate the fine
points of America and other countries to construct a
finer and democratic Japan.
Inomata later told me that his speech was very well
received. He said he had been invited to become presid-
ing judge of the Miyazaki prefecture circuit court. The
people of Miyazaki were extremely interested in him, as
they said he was the first high official from Tokyo to
visit in their prefecture.
That evening our group had dinner with a number of
the visiting mayors, assembly heads and officials of
the Asahi Chemical Company at a club owned and operated
by the corporation. During the course of the meal I
was able to talk at length with these officials and
obtain some of the material set forth above.
The second day of the conference featured a break-
down of the audience (approximately 860 persons) into
four discussion groups. Each lecturer (except Miss
Burke) visited with each group for approximately one
hour according to a prepared schedule. As I have
indicated in former Memorandum Reports on these con-
ferences, the discussion group questions are one of
the best available methods of obtaining a cross-section
picture of government problems in the .particular pre-
fecture.
One question of note dealt with the tonari-gumi
(neighborhood association) system and whether such a
system was used in the United States. It will be
remembered
RESTRICTED

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 6 -
remembered that this system functioned as a control
organism of the Japane se government during the war.
The block leader was utilized to see that government plans
and policy were carried out by all individuals concerned.
Apparently the need for the organization at present is
found in connection with rationing. Some method of sure
news about when the various rat ions will issue is needed
so as not to miss them. Mr. Michael Nolan indicated to
me that the people seem to favor the return of the
system. In one place where he took a show of hands on
the issue all save one person voted in favor of it. He
asked the other man why he was not in favor. The man
replied that it would again be utilized as a control
instrument by the bosses to bring the people into line.
Judge Inomata gave his opinion that the tonari-gumi
system should not be revitalized. He said that although
it would be helpful in rationing matters, nevertheless
such notices were posted, the people should stand on
their own feet, and any marginal help it might afford
would be far offset by the obvious ill effect it would
have on the freedom and democratization of the people.
Since, as Nolan stated, in about 65% to 75% of the
places, the people favor return of the system, this may
indicate a weaknesses in Japan's new democracy. Having
had authoritarian control on the lowest level so long,
the people still look to it for a helping hand, because
they have gone intellectually lazy under that control.
This type of thinking was noticible in several other
questions at Nobeoka.
For example, there would seem to be a compartmentali-
zation in their thinking. One question concerned who
drafted bills presented to the city assembly. The
questioner seemed to think that if assemblymen presented
bills, then members of the executive department should
not have that right directly or indirectly. The people
seem to grasp the compartmentalization of the three basic
administrative units of American government (executive,
legislative and judicial) but they do not sense the
value or necessity of fluidity between the three.
Other questions concerned technical comparisons
between local government in the United States and Japan.
uestioners were surprised at the comparatively small
number of a ssemblymen and city officials in the United
States. They were surprised to find that in some res-
pects city government in Japan was more paternalistic
than abroad. Discussion also centered about the recall
and its abuse. One question concerned how fine citizens
could be drawn into running for office. What did demo-
cracies in the west do when all candidates were not
suitable for the office?
Other questions reflected difficulties encountered
in collecting taxes under post war chaotic economic
conditions
RESTR IC TED

=== Page 69 === (confidence 1.00)
RESTRICTED
-7-
conditions as augmented by the five natural disasters
recently visited upon the prefecture. It was pointed
out that the people were unable to pay their taxes.
Particular hardship was felt because the three tax
offices, village, prefecture and national were unable
to agree in their assessments. Because of this it was
stated great discrepancies were frequently found in
taxes levied on the particular individual. This was
linked in with the school problem, it being claimed
that certain village areas found it impossible to as-
sume the burden of their own schools under the new
educational system. (Under the old method the central
government helped the local areas to support the schools
by contributing to school construction and teacher's
salaries.)
In commenting on this problem Col. Wimberley of
the Miyazaki team stated that the difficulty occurred
because some places started school construction too
close to the cut-off date (from the old to new systems
of support). He felt that some assistance would be
rendered by implementation of the Shoup tax system.
Nolan told me that he had questions about the
Shoup tax system reflecting fears that large old homes
would disappear under this system of taxation.
Questioners urged that the tax be assessed against
those portions of the dwellings actually utilized.
There were also questions reflecting a disinclination
to send children to the school in the individual's
area for the reason that it was a poor one whereas one
close by was well equipt.
It was to be noted at this conference that both
attendance by women and questions about women were at
a minimum. One of the few women in attendance told me
that the women's organizations were not organized and
active at present. The questions were mainly put by
men and concerned the percentage of women in politics
in the United States and what the women with families
did when they entered such careers.
The conference closed on the afternoon of November
8, 1949 with speeches of appreciation from the Mayor,
and a speech by Mr. Nolan giving his evaluation of the
conference.
Conclusions
While there is an appreciation of the value of
democracy in Miyazaki prefecture, it seems to me that
the general backwardness of the prefecture, augmented
by its distance from the center of government in Tokyo,
constitute considerable obstacles to democratization
yet to be overcome. uestions about the tonari-gumi-
financial
RESTRICTED

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 8 -
financial difficulties and conservatism in business
and government would seem to indicate that the people
have not advanced very far in their thinking about the
rights and duties of the free citizen (as opposed to
a controlled one) which is fundamental. Because of
relative lack of contact with Americans and other
foreigners, I think it will take Miyazaki considerably
longer to practice the democratic principles they now
have on paper in the local autonomy law.  The impact of
the emergence of a Japanese type of democracy in the
more progressive areas of Japan will probably serve as
the stimulus needed by the prefecture after the Occu-
pation withdraws. This prefecture is illustrative of
the uneveness of propagating the basic concepts of
democracy in Japan, and also throws doubt on wisdom
of the policy of removing all Military Government teams
at one time. Rather a better policy might have been
to set up civil affair regions in the more progressive
areas and retain teams in some prefectures, mainly
for civil information and education type of activity
along legal and government lines.
William L. Magistretti
American Vice Consul
RESTRICTED

=== Page 71 === (confidence 1.00)
RESTRICTED
(For Department's Use Only)
MEMORANDUM REPORT
November 28, 1949
SUBJECT: Local Government Conference at Beppu
The twentieth and concluding Local government
conference, under the auspices of the Legal and
Government Section, Civil Affairs Division, 8th Army,
was held at Beppu, Oita Prefecture on November 10 and
11, 1949. While it was initially planned that a
conference would be held in a city of each prefecture
in Japan, the sudden change of the Civil Affairs
Division from the 8th Army to SCAP entailing shifting
of personnel and controls at approximately the half
way point forced at least a temporary finale. However,
it should be noted that the twenty conferences completed
were scattered through the various areas of Japan, and
thus, all regions have been covered although not all
prefectures.
As detailed in my former Memorandum Reports on
these conferences (See: Memorandum Report re Uji-
Yamada dated October 10, 1949) the general pattern of
the two day meeting is the same. The first day is
devoted to an opening ceremony followed by presentation
of either four or five prepared speeches concerning
various aspects of city or village government. The
second day is devoted to four or five small discussion
groups. The lecturers then alternately visit with
these groups for a period of an hour or more for the
purpose of answering questions from those assembled.
The second day is concluded with a brief ceremony.
Prior to our arrival in Beppu, members of the Oita
Military government team together with the mayor and
city officials had laid the ground-work. Well over a
thousand invitations had been sent out to mayors, chiefs
of city or village assemblies and assemblymen. In
addition basic plans for the conference were made
subject to confermation by our group the day prior to
the conference.
The selection of Beppu for the conference (as I
discovered to be the same in the case of other cities)
was mainly
RESTRICTED

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-2 -
was mainly on the suggestion of the National Association
of Mayors to Mr. Cecil B. Tilton, Chief, Legal and
government Section. While Oita, the capitol, is the
principal industrial city, Beppu proved to be excellent
for the conference because the officials and hotels are
skilled in handing conference and tourist trade, the
city's principal industry. However, because of this
trade the city is cosmopolitan in character and not
particularly typical of the prefecture. I was told
that most of the inhabitants are pecple who have migrated
from other parts of Japan. There are extremely few
persons who were born in the city. One of the few is
the mayor, Mr. Tetsuichi Waki. But even he spent the
last tventy years as a judge in Seoul, Korea. Because
of this complex character of the city, he told me that
he encountered considerable political difficulty. The
city in part is contolled by political bosses (probably
through control of restraunts and houses of assignation)
on the one hand, and the communists or extreme leftists
are very vocal on the other. One evidence of this was
the large number of Kabe Shimbun (Wall Newspapers)
posted on the walls of buildings in all parts of the
city. The mayor is an independant, and refuses to
acceed either to the desires of the bosses or the
Communists.
Because of recent amalgamation the city now has an
estimated population of 100,000. An internationally
known spa city (featuring such oddities as "Red Hell"
"Sea Hell" and other not springs), the principal income
of the city is derived fron taxes on the hotels, rest-
raunts, amusement places and gift shops featuring
bamboo ware. However, the mayor voiced great concern
over new changes in the tax laws which will divert the
major portion of such taxes to the prefecture, thus
leaving the city of Beppu without its main source of
funds.
hile the city is an exceptionally clean and gay
tourist mecca, the smoke stacks of a steel plant and
cement plant loom on the distant outskirts, the only
industrial aspect to be noted. There is wide-scale
small factory or home industry activity, however, since
the city is knowm for its woven bamboo ware, and wood-
carved items (little carved wooden containers) which
are prominently displayed in shops throughout the city.
The food position would seem to be exceptionally good.
Stores in the main streets displayed counters laden
with all types of food dear to the Japanese heart, and
large numbers of small eating stalls ply their trade
until late at night. In part this may be attributed to
the position of the city (near sea and farm) and to the
fact that it was unbombed.
Perhaps
RESTRICTED

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 3-
Perhaps as a counter-measure to a drop-off in
international tourist trade, the mayor told me of plans
for the future improvement of the city. At present he
is negotiating with appropriate government offices in
Tokyo for improvement of Beppu's port facilities. The
mayor has great hopes for development of Beppu as an
international trade city. He stated that the cities
of Nagasaki and Hakata (port of Fukuoka) had developed
because of the Japanese government's emphasis on the
China-Korea trade. In the near future, at least, the
resumption of that vast flow cannot be anticipated.
Contrariwise the east coast of Kyushu should reasonably
anticipate more trade from the United States. In this
respect Beppu is in an advantageous position to save
vessels the trip up to the Moji-Shimonoseki area. Rail
facilities out of Beppu to all Kyushu areas are good,
and probably could be easily expanded to meet increased
demands for service. The mayor suggested that at the
appropriate future time the Department's representatives
in Japan might like to consider Beppu as a logical
place for opening a consulate.
I then asked his opinion regarding our present
problem as to whether a consulate should be opened
first at Fukuoka or at Nagasaki. The mayor felt that
Fukuoka would be the appropriate place at present. He
said that Nagasaki has not regained its pre-war import-
ance (again refering to the port's orientation toward
China), and stated that in any event the coaling station
was now located at Omuta. Fukuoka and its port of
Hakata is fairly active at present, and further offers
a substantial concentration of Occupation personnel.
It is centrally located on the island of Kyushu and in
an advantageous position to offer services to the
greatest number of Americans and Japanese. I talked
at length with various Japanese businessmen and officials
in Beppu and found their opinions substantially the
same as the mayor's.
In addition to his port improvement program the
mayor told me that he had plans for city street improve-
ment and for the bettering of water facilities, etc.
The mayor impressed me as a very capable and alert man.
His handling of the conference was one of the best, if
not the best, I attended. All details were worked out
as to facilities and the orderly progress of the two-
day conference. This was quite a contrast to our prior
conference at the rather back-woods town of Nobeoka,
Hiyazaki prefecture which moved on the Japanese principle
of disrespect for time.
Thus, in Beppu the conference convened promptly at
9 a.m. on November 1Oth. The brief words of greeting
from the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-4 -
from the Japanese officials--contrary to usual practice--
were really brief. And we found ourselves ahead of time
when Major Thomas Cockrell, commanding officer of the
local Military Government team, made his speech. As
elsewhere in Japan, the team is in process of inventoring
its property and records in order to turn them over to
the Kyushu Civil Affairs Region at Fukuoka as of the
first of December. Consequently the Major devoted a
portion of his speech to a farewell to the people and
an appreciation of their support. He emphasized that
the two main points of his administration had been the
economic stabilization and the democratization of the
prefecture. He felt that good steps forward had been
taken in both, and opined that more progress would be
made in the future under the Region.
Next on the program was Mr. Michael E. Nolan,
senior member of the 8th Army group. Mr. Nolan was a.
probate judge in Michigan for many years and also a
National Labor Relations Board attorney. He gave much
the same speech as he had at Nobeoka. (See my Memo-
randum Report on Nobeoka, dated November 23, 1949).
Judge Koichi Inomata of the Tokyo High Court again
acted as his interpreter. Nolan as usual went over
very well. He is particularly gifted in illustrating
his talks with amusing stories of interest to the
Japanese.
At Nolan's request the writer again presented paper
one in Japanese. Both papers one and two were presented
before lunch. It was noted that the audience was having
difficulty understanding paper number two, as the inter-
preter was new to the work, and unable to put his
material across through lack of background in the tech-
nical subject matter. Unlike the speech at Nobeoka,
however, he continued to the end. The remainder of the
day was devoted to papers three, four and five.
Upon completion of paper number 5 r. Michael E.
Nolan then introduced Judge Inomata, who had acted as in-
terpreter for that paper. The Judge, excellent at inter-
preting into living Japanese oratory, likewise made an
excellent brief speech indicating the values from the
Japanese side of integrating fine principles of govern-
ment from the West into Japanese life. Details of his
speech are given in my report on the Nobeoka conference,
as he made much the same speech.
That evening we had dinner with the Mayor of Beppu,
Beppu officials and prominent mayors and official in
attendance at the conference. During the course of the
meal I was able to converse at some length with these
various officials and obtain some of the information
woven into this report. I also feel that contacts of
future
RESTRICTED

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 5 -
future value to our work in Japan have been made through
this and other conference.
During the course of the evening one of the Nisei,
Department of Army Civilian assistants to Mr. John
Rourke, Legal and Government Officer, Kyushu Region,
left the party given by the mayor to visit an on-limits
dance hall. Here he was accosted by three inebriated
men whom he thought were nisei or alien Japanese who
repatriated to Japan after cessation of hostilities.
The men identified him as one of the members of our
group and reviled him in extremely abusive language for
his participation in the local government conference.
Yoshida, realizing they were drunk, answered evasively
and in such a manner as to obviate physical violence
and an "incident".
Upon return to our special railroad car that
evening he related the above in detail to Mr. Rourke.
Rourke added that he was aware of certain opposition
groups among the young men in Kyushu. However, his
conversation would indicate that he did not consider
the matter to be too serious. It should be noted, how-
ever, that this was the only time in the four conferences
which I have attended in which opposition was voiced in
such a violent form. It will be recalled that Kyushu
was the home of the two fighting clans which set Emperor
Meiji on the throne, and has a tradition of producing
hot-headed fighting men. The incident may be partially
attributed to this, aggrevated by the presence of dis-
gruntled repatriates from America. While yet an ap-
parently negligable undertone, it is nevertheless
one to be closely watched and analysed in the future.
On the second day, November 11, 1949, the audience
of approximately 1300 broke up into four groups. As in
the past, papers number 2 and 4 were combined, it being
felt that five discussion groups were too unweildy, and
would drag out the program disproportionately. As I
have indicated in former reports, a cross section ana-
lysis of the questions broached in these discussion
groups affords an interesting and otherwise difficult to
obtain cross-section insight into the problems of the
people and the extent of the spread of democratic ideas
among them.
While Beppu and Oita prefecture have long been noted
as t he birthplace and scene of the activities of Fukuzawa,
great Japanese liberal and founder of Keio University,
it would seem that there is considerable doubt in some
areas about the workings of democracy. One old man in
particular had grave doubts about the value of democracy
in an
RESTRICTED

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-6 -
in an apparently theoretical situation where he postu-
lated that 900 persons have the wrong view on an issue
and 100 the right view. In this connection, Nolan told
me that civic leaders in the rural areas of Japan were
experiencing considerable difficulty in putting across
ideas for the betterment of the people which entailed
an outlay of money. The typical attitude of the
farmers in particular was that they didn't want it,
if it cost money. This, of course, in part is linked
with the difficult economic position in which the
farmers, like others, find themselves today.
Thus, an intelligent elderly village mayor rose to
tell me that the people in his village were very recep-
tive to d emocratic ideas, but his great difficulty lay
in lack of funds to hold town meetings, night schools
or other gatherings designed to inforn the people about
their new responsibilities and about city problems and
plans. He echoed the wish of another official that
conferences similar to this one could be presented in
the various towns and cities throughout the prefecture
so that a huge segment of the people could attend and
participate. (Nolan told me in private that he personal-
ly wished the same thing; that more members of the
general public could be drawn into these conferences or
separate ones held, but so far personnel and other con-
siderations precluded such conferences.)
As in former conferences, questions again reflected
the difficult econonic situation and tax problems. A
number of questions related to ways and means used in
the United States to enforce tax payments or collections.
Others related to methods utilized to verify the correct-
ness of tax statements. A few concerned the inequity of
assessments and methods used to correct t hem.
Some persons (apparently Christian ministers) asked
the abstract question of whether morality or the law
was considered higher in the United States. Others
indicated that there was room for Buddhism to educate
the Japanese people in every-day courtesy and public
spiritedness thus contributing toward the building of
good citizens along the lines of such activity among
Christian churches in the United States. A rather
humorous speaker rose to a dvocate that General MacArthur
make a personal visit to the "American Shrine" -- the
Usa Shrine, thereby showing a spirit ofequality among
religions. This may be a round-about criticism of
MacArthur's esposal of Christianity for the Japanese.
The constantly recurring problem of funds for the
schools, and the police was again broached. At every
conference I attended grave doubts were e xpressed by
serious leaders a bout the ability of some communities
to support
RESTRICTED

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-7 -
to support their schools. There is a consistent request
that at least partial support for school construction
and teacher's salaries come from the prefecture or central
government. In discussing the problem with Nolan he
said that he felt our experts in Tokyo had attempted to
graft an American variety of school system on Japanese
communities utterly unable to support them, and that some
modification would have to be made in the future. As in
other cases, he decried the policy created in Tokyo's
ivory towers by short-term American experts who knew
little or nothing of the Japanese scene and its needs.
A goodly number of the questions reflected concern
about education and reorientation of the Japanese people.
Interest was shown in the methods whereby voters in the
United States are able to keep abreast of current issues
and vote intelligently. Particular interest was evi-
denced in civic organizations in the rural areas, as well
as methods of adult education. One particular concern
was a democratic method of denying civic rights to those
who refused to assume civic responsibilities. In
several instances I have noted either an expressed or
implied feeling that the Japanese people as a whole are
very capable of asserting their rights and equally
capable of dodging responsibilities. How did Americans
succeed in awakening the people to their civic duties?
Another trend of questioning running through this
and other conferences was about the part which political
parties play in local politics in the United States.
The questioners frequently indicated that Japanese
political parties had little or no interest or "roots"
in the local scene. They had no local political organi-
zation active in the selection of local candidates or
taking a position on local issues. The result was that
the people were frequently at a loss as to selection of
candidates. hat do you do when all those running are
not of a calibre suitable for the office? Conversations
about the conference with other members of the llilitary
Government group revealed that this was a particular
challenge to the future of democracy in Japan. The
Communists alone among the political parties have carried
their message and issues to the "grass roots". The
larger political parties, however, do not have chapters
active on the local scene, and either cannot or do not
effectively present their issues to the people. This in
part accounts for Communist successes in recent local
elections.
Until such time as the major political parties do
build their structure upon local branches representing
the opinions of the people of their respective communi-
ties and bear their proper share of the fight against
coumunist
RESTRICTED

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 8 -
communist infiltration in the local areas it would
seem that politics and government on the local level
will be considerably retarded. This is no particular
brief for political parties and their activities but
these and other conferences which I attended have con-
vinced me that either the major Japanese political
parties or some equivalent local political club had
better step into the local political vacuum which
generally previls so as to give the people good candi-
dates and some substantial organization upon which t hey
can rely for presentation of the issues. The advent of
such groups would also substantially prevent the fairly
wide-spread bossism in Japanese local politics. Such
bossism is not on a political party basis (where it is
also not to be condoned) but rather on a local vested
interest basis more or less completely divorced from
anys ense of responsibility to the people. To the
extent that such practices cont inue democracy will be
retarded in Japan, for while the super-structure may be
democration in form the basis will continue to be rule
of the few with no effective political representation
of the views of the many in organized and responsible
fashion in the finer tradition of our own political
parties.
As a result of this situation lir. Yamamoto, active
in the national mayors association and former career
diplomat in the Japanese Foreign Service, told me that
serious minded Japanese were not taking as much interest
as they should in local politics. He confirmed that
the scene was shared by the bosses and the communists.
As one means to bring in good blood, he suggested that
the purge should be reevaluated. He said that a number
of mayors had been elected to office from pre-war days
and continued in office during the war. The ir role in
support of the war effort had just been that of any
patriotic citizen when his country is at war and little
more. Admittedly some had directly assisted in Japan's
agressive intentions and the war, but the majority of
mayors were in the category just mentioned. Lifting of
the purge in such cases would bring much needed politi-
cal experience and acumen to the local scene. Yamamoto
said that this feeling was videly held among the Japanese
people. In this connection it should be noted that
there is apparently a certain amount of control by purged
political leaders. In my memorandum reports forwarded
under cover of Yokohama's Despatch No. i68, subject,
Analysis of Recent Changes in Military Government
Structure in Japan, September 7, 1949, I related how
the Legal and Government Officer of the Shizuoka Military
Government team told me how his investigation had
substantiated charges that the purged mayor of the
large city of Numazu still indirectly ran the city.
He said that he had forwarded his report through chan-
nels but nothing was ever done auout the situation. I
have
RESTRICTED

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
- 9 -
have also had a reliable report of such situations
existing in the rural areas of Nagasaki prefecture.
While questions asked me had little to do with
Communism, Nolan told me that he encountered a number
of them in his meetings with the four groups. Most of
these he considered to derive from a healthy interest
in getting behind comnunist claims and stopping them.
One questioner asked him about Communist papers and
pamphlets which stated that Japan was actually being
placed in a position of serfdom to the United States
through accepting so much United States aid. Nolan
replied that everyone realized that Japan could not
furnish her own people enough to eat at present. At
such time as the Communists put rice into the people's
rice bowls instead of paper propaganda slips, serious
Japanese would take note of what they said.
In addition to these questions others were asked
Nolan showing a concern on the part of the people about
the weakness of their police force in coping with Com-
munist violence. This concern is probably related to
news of the Mitaka derailing trial now prominently
printed in the press. In this trial it is alleged that
certain leftist union leaders derailed a train at the
Mitaka station near Tokyo thereby killing or injuring a
number of persons. Nolan told me he felt that the
police were as yet unskilled in learning about and
preventing this type of illegal violence. Some persons
thought that the tonari-gumi (neighborhood association
system) should be revived to combat such a menace.
(For more detailed discussion of the pros and cons of
this wide spread request for revival of the tonari-
gumi see my memorandum report on the conference at
Nobeoka, dated November 23, 1949.)
Miss Alice Burke who handled the discussion group
relative to t he assembly told me she obtained a number
of questions about the extent of women's activities in
politics in the United States. It should be noted that
very few women were present at the meeting in Beppu.
As far as I could ascertain there were about 25 or 30
in the 1300 persons assembled. The same tendency was
noticed in Nobeoka, so it may be that the women in
Kyushu are having a more difficult time asserting their
equality, than in Honshu. At least that is so in my
own experience with these conferences.
In addition Miss Burke received a number of tech-
nical questions about the assembly and whether it is party-
elected in the United States. She said she also had
some about improvement of the schools, and throughout the
country had received questions about birth control.
After
RESTRICTED

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
- 10 -
After the closing ceremony a group of Oita pre-
fectural officials headed by the Vice Governor called
on Mr. Nolan to discuss the problem of a village which
wished to withdraw from a wartime annexation with its
adjacent city. Nolan told me that there were three
such knotty problems in Oita and others in various
prefectures in Japan. In the present instance the city
surrounded the village on three sides so that succession
would result in road problems and other administrative
difficulties. A former law made secession the joint
problem of the prefecture and the people but a new
law has now placed it up to the people. The prefecture
disapproved but the people are in favor of secession.
The problem is illustrative of intensness of local
feeling in some areas. For some reason the people of
the area desiring secession tryed to bring about recall
of the mayor of the city. Failing in this they desired
secession. In addition the prefectural officials told
Nolan the influential leaders in the recalcitrant area
lost their relative position of leadership upon
amalgamation and desired to regain their former power.
Conclusions
While there seems a sincere drive toward democracy
on the party of most civic leaders in Oita ken, there
is a disturbing background of conflict between bossism
and communism with the major political parties doing
little to stabilize the situation. Despite a history
of liberal thinking on the one hand, there is a hard
core of scepticism about democracy and whether its
results are in the best interests of the people.
Women's rights and organizations seem hardly to have
started. Ecnomic difficulties in city and rural areas
alike join hands with an outmoded tax structure to place
a staggering burden on the cities and towns with their
new and increased load under the local autonomy law.
There is much which is encouraging to be seen in the
trend toward democracy in Oita, but it would be seriously
wrong to overlook retarding influences which are causing
the emergence of true Japanese democracy to be accompa-
nied by considerable difficulties.
lllanlugiethat.
William L. Magistretti
American Vice Consul

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.95)
LR.
35752
THE-FORGIGN SERVICE
OF THE
B
ID STATS OF AMERICA
131
for Japan
No. 916
Tokyo, December 31, 1949.
RESTRICTED
894.00/12-3149
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Subjeot: Transmittal of Two Reports on
DIVISIGN OF LIBRARY
14
Local Govemmsent
Conditions in Japan.
REFERENCE SERVICES
REC'D
JAN 14
LEB61950
LRFILE COPY
ACTION
The Honorable
FE-enc
Th Secretary of State.
PLEASE RETURIN
Washington.
INFO
DCR
Sir,
OLI-eno
I have the honor to transmit herewith for the
1/2
Department's information two reports on local government
conditions in Japan prepared by Foreign Service Officer
J
William L. MAGISTRETTI, who recently aeoompanied an
j
Eighth Army Civil Affairs team to Kyuthu for a serdes
of conferen ut with local Japanese political leador.
In the opinion of the Mission these reports prosent
an accurate and highly information picture of a phase
of Japanese political life which all too frequently
has beon overlooked in the face of national politioal
problems.
As noted iny a convering communication of Decomber 7,
3/
1949, fromlthe Consul General at Yokohama, a copy of which
Al
is onclosed, these reports complete the coverage of the
tripe taken to date by Mr. Magistretti and by Foreign
SVG
Service Officer Richard B. Finn in connection with local
civil affairs activities in Japan, and the Mission avails
itself of this opportunity to commond both these officers
for their work in preparing this series of reports.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
RESTRICTED
Distribution was delayed due to i proper preparation.
on the original master. DC/R. 1-21-50 cmc.

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
Decemper 31, 49.
RESTRICTED
at
Enclosures:
1.
Report entitled *Local
Government Conference:
Nobeoka, Miyasaki Pre-
fecture dated November 23,
1949. (2 copiea)
2.
Report entitled "Local
Government Conference:
Beppu", dated November 28,
1949. (2 copies)
3.
Covering despatch from
Yokohama Branch, USPOLAD,
dated December 7, 1949.
(2 copies)
Parchment Mat to Department.
350
D.Overton:mhp
RESTRICTED
Rotyped 1/23/50 jem.

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
(For Department's Use Only)
ORANDUL RPORT
November23, 1949
ubject: Local coverruient Conference: lobeoka,
:iyasaki T refeeture.
Another in the series of local government con-
ferences, conducted by the Legal and lovernnent
Section, Civil ffairs ivision, leuuarters sth
Army was held at th city of Hobeoka, .iyazaki Ire-
fecture on November 7 and , 194e.  is the usual
practice (for details seo y: emorandu Report on the
conference at Uji-Ya.ad., dated Cctober 10, 1949),
the first day ot the sonference ws devoted to the
opening ceremony m. the presenoation of the five
preseribed papers.
lthough iya aki sity is che cap itol or the
prefceture, the recent locl pv rent conierence
vas held at Nobeok., lar esu city in the refecture
because a former coiteronce n tie prefectural level
had been held t Liy mi proxite-y one year ego.
Hiyasaki refeeture is nown to the Ja anese us "the
Country of Eyuga" ni ri ures rominently in their
prehistoric lojends regarding te founding of Japan.
Through local Jup nese ofriclais n embere of the
I ilitary Sovernment te , 1 learned shat while these
historic attructions und  ot springs uccount for a
fair amount of tourist trane, rincipally Japunese,
the prefecture cannot comnete with other resort areas,
because it is so far distant fro Tokyo nt Osaku in
terms of travel time. The people lee feel distant
from Polyo in terms or pvermtnt. The  rereeture's
prineipal oceu uuions are fur ing  na rishine with some
industry located t relutively fow pl ces, such as
Hobeoka.
pproximately , Coo or the ,oco population of
loseoke work in th ur lonts of the s hi chemical
Company located vithin the city or the close environs.
Like uny csory towm in tho Uhited tates, a typical
mornin seene is ehe thron s of people walking en
masse toware their f ctories. The s hi plants com-
prise  mber er (reyon) raetory, dyna ite (For
industrial

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
一2 -
industrial purposes) factory, fertilizer factory and
a cement plant. Asahi Chemical officials told me that
the corporation had been diminished in size as a result
of CAf decentralization policies, but the four plants
in Kobeoka were left as  part of Asahi Chemical with
head offices in Tokyo.
ecause of these plants, lobooka was bombed
several times uring the war with considerable bomb
damage. lowever, rebuilding of the frame houses has
gone forward vury rapidly. Today it is difficult to
Immediately ascertain the bombed-out areas. Captain
Green, Leg 1 nd overnment Cfficer of the : iyazaki
team, said chat there h d reen somowhat of a Comunist
party problem through iniiltration among workers at
the plants. However, tie company officials hed solved
it by gradually firin or reiusin to hire those with
known party symputhies or affiliations. ith no other
source of income readily availa le in the town the
agitators hat to move uls: where. Tho local chief of
police confirmed thae the comrunists were no particular
problem. .ccordin to him only aoout 20 of l00 Japunese
repatriates from Iberia shoved uny interest in Coimunism
onee they settled in their old tomes. t the present
time the Jommunist  rty is only able to poll i of the
votes at elections held in Hobeota.
In contrast to this poor shovin of the co.munists
the Desocrutic Liberal I rty reeeived s of the votes;
the Lemocratic irty fro. 1 -2o mi tie ocialists
anothor substantial percenta e.
The chief of the city ussenbly told me there was
no unemployment problem ut precent although he antici-
pated ono in the uture. This may accouns for sore
shift toward she left.. lth ug not directly stated,
it may be that che asuenbly c fei had in mind the recent
lossess surfered y the farmers eccuse or five upheavals
of nature this past year. (he o. the villae mayors said
the rice crop was yarticulerly hard hit. In his area
he estinnted a loss of 40 to 0: becausc of 3 typhoons
and a floode. Japtain reen of ilitary overiment
estimated la sillio. yen cror s e in the rufecture
nd added bhat ty hoon rela ipew ut the peoplo's only
hard money crop; to cco. alt water ot onto the leaf
ane destroyed lo. yphoon May then it their attempt
to co into true raenin nd Julith it their sweet
potatoee. Mhe a t in et ted tlhet the prefecture-wide
vera e en ie w et too ae censiderin ehe cir
cumstances. he  me is rernrte or the trish potato
crop. Howevur, he fesls that te lack o. a lard cush
croj will make itselr felt valen she poo, le l ve to buy
seeds for per crops  then the tlme coree to  ay taxes.
Rile obeoka

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.93)
RSSTRICTED
-3-
hile Nobeoka has port facilities, the city does
little in the way of extensive fiahing. The prefecture
itself has a mumber of good ports which are mainly
engaged in inter-costal trade and fishing. Aburatsu is
the center of the fishing industry. The latter industry
is active in the southern part of the prefecture. At
Honjo Nayor Uchida, a very progressive and agressive man,
has vowed to mate is town preeminent in fishing through
the prefecture, an., roreover, rus taken substantial
action along these lines. He is already first in the
prefecture in collectin the llocated rice; and first
throu hout Ja an in wi:ite potato collections.
Unlike yor chida, r. atajiro Hakata, mayor of
Nobeoka, would seem to e a run of the mill politician.
Little was  id ebout pro ressive city plannin. How-
ever, to his credit it should be cited that he was
successful in fighting - rather obnoxious use of the
new recall system. Vis o ponents in t he city cir-
culated petitions for his rec ll, but stopped just short
of the number re uireu for an election. They then ap-
roached him un told him that, if he fuiled to heed
their recucste, ciey would complote the recall petition.
However, the mayor s ble to conout and overcome this
situation. one o the prominent Jup nosc with whom I
talked analysed him as "hot a good politician, ut a
kind hearted mun". It would aIso seen he is n astute
politician.
Certainly is speuch us chairman openiny the
ceremony ccntlined she flowery language usual in such
Jup nese speeches. Typical oi this "behind tho moon"
area of Japan, a mumber of the so persons attending
arrived late. fuer tle nayor's speech came the usual
brief reetings rom the vice jovernor of the prefecture
and the more pron inent ayors. Lt. Jol. iaberley,
chief of the Hiymaaki refecture ilitary Joverament
team spoke about his ride in what the . iyasaki prefec-
ture people had uccomplished sinee he had ti en charge;
told the people about the change-over to the . pushu
civil ffairs  or caiber lst and expressct is
sadnes: leavin.
He was followed by .r.  ichuel. Holan, senior
nember of the rou or visitin lecturers. Holan, for
l0 yeare a prob te jud ge in  ichigan and mtional labor
relatione lawy r  or  lea thy perioa, ctressed rticle
1 of the sonstioution wi ic: tre ts of the unity of the
Japnese peo le corscs n  the pereon of the pepor.
-peakin tmeirectl e s vo unistt, loln s.id chose
who voulu t e ptlete a o. she lonstltution ay from
the Jo aaece  corl cre he self-sore orsone whe would
take away il sleir pt lts wn llserties. e next
treated

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
-4-
treated of the subject of recall stating that it had
been widely misused in Japan, and that it was to be
used only as a final resort. Nolan told me in private
that it was his policy to stop-gap the misuse of the
recall and ive the mayors support wherever possible
unless there was some reason for not doing so. He told
the audience they should be patient with their city
officials. lot all the pro lems were their responsi-
bility. Rather the chief difficulty faced by local
authorities derives from the fact th.t the Diet has
not yet changed the 50 yeur old tax structure so as to
divert to cities nd towns the funds necessary for.their
increased dutics under the local autonomy law.
At the re uest of Ir. Solan the writer aguin gave
speech number one entitled "The Citizen in Japan" in
Jajunese und Was well received. In the afternoon
Mr. John Rourke, Logal and Governaent Officer, Kyushu
Civil Affairs Hegion ave the paper on "The Cffice of
Mayor". Sever l pargra hs into bis speech Rourke
was forced to chage is interpreter as members of the
audience stood u. i insisted thet they could not
understand it. Judge hoichi Inomata of the Tokyo High
Court and a member of the visitins sroup ste ped into
the gap and did an excellunt interpretin jot. The
problen of securin interpreters u to the standard
required by this type of conference has been elsewhere
noted in these cemorandua reports. It has been a fairly
constant problen ane the success of a particular paper
has hinged more on the interpreter than on the lecturer.
Captain reen of the  iysakl . illtary povernment
team save pper three on liey seerblles; iss lice
Burke, attorney it the Legal me loveriment section,
Civil affairs Divisior,  th rmy save paper number
4 on city administrution mn. r. Molan ave paper
number 5 on independant oarus sn co:missions.
Judge Inomata ceted us . Holan's intrepreter.
Born in Fukushima-ken, Japan, Ihotata Pirst s, ired to
be a diplosat. The aeath of wis father while he was
still in hi her schoel caused L so atandon t is ambition.
He then looked fter  is brothers ahd sistere  ad conti-
nued is e luc tlon n Punds borro rom us ima
prefecture.  on rauuacion rom Pokyo Imperial Univer-
sity he cntered ov rraent ser iee la ser sorv in as
procurator at  oya sna varions posisions t judge. He
has been Liaison offieial  or whe fokyo Migh Jourt since
the occupation. t present he is une or ohe .J panese
officials seleesed br a vo day sour  she United
tates. lec use o is insurest in t  locl autonomy
pro ram he secure. . le ve or e nee ro.. se Jourt hnd
has travelled tensively waith she pre re a accom-
plished puelie epeaker, fromes ce wisbently wined reat
Laver with vis tteienese uhrea .  ls w. llit to intrepret
thenlish

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
-5 -
the English speeches into flowing Japanese oratory.
Later on in the series of conferences Nolan hit on the
idea of having the Judge give a brief talk from the
Japanese side as to the value of these regional govern-
ment conferences. This met with reat success.
buring the course of his speech Inomata pointed
out that the Japanese had suffered fron a superiority
complex. Drafted us a sucond class private during the
war, Inomata had gone to China with misgivings whether
he would return alive, since he was sickly in Japan
whhich he had been tau ht enjoyed the best cl imate in
the world. Cnee in thina, however, he discovered that
the climate was very fine and the Chinese people, even
after Japan's defeat, treated him very well.  rom this
he deduced that the Ja, anese people were in great need
of knowledge about thu outside world. He noted that
the period's of Ja un's reatest advances (Nara-Heian
period and leiji periou) were those in which she was
humble and learned rom China and the  est respectively.
He expressed the hope that the Jupanese would not go to
some of the extremes found in the eiji period, but
would keep their self-respect and integrate the fine
points of mericu an: other countries to construct a
Piner and democratic Japan.
Inomata later told me that his speech was very well
received. He suid he had been invited to become presid-
ing jud e or the iyazaki r cture cireuit court. The
people of  iya soki were extrumely interested in him, as
they suld he ves the first hi h orficial rom Tokyo to
visit in their  reiocture.
Thet evening our rour hed dinner with - nuaber of
the visitins mayors, assembly hoads nd officials of
the sahi shemical company t a clul owmed ne operated
by the corporution. wurin the course of th meal 
was able to talk at len th with these officials nd
obtain some of the fterial set forth  bove.
The second day of the conferunce featureu  breck-
dowm of the audience (upproxim tely S0 persons) into
four discussion roups. ach lecturer (e.cept . iss
Eurke) visited with e clh srou lor approxin tely one
hour accordins to a prepared cchedule. s I lave
indicated in Sormer morandun Re orts on thse con-
ferences, the discussion roup uestions are uhe of
the best available sethods of obteinin:  cross-section
picture of over ment pro lems in the articuler pre-
Tecture.
One guestion o. note veale wit s e tonari-gumi
(nei hiorhood association) sysse uni whuther such a
syetem wes used in uhe United  tates. It wiil be
remesbered

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
-6 -
remembered that this system functioned as a control
organism of the Japam se govermment during the war.
The block leader was utilized to see that government plans
and policy were carried out by all individuals concerned.
Apparently the need for the organization at present is
found in connection with rationing. Jome method of sure
news about when the various rat ions will issue is needed
so as not to miss the.. Mr. Michael Nolan indicated to
me that the people seem to favor the return of the
system. In one place where he took a show of hands on
the issue all cuve one person voted in favor of it. He
asked the other in why he was not in fuvor. The man
replied that it woulc again be utilized as a control
instrument by the bossos to brin the people into line.
Judge Inomata uve his opinion that the tonari-sumi
system should not be revitalized. lie said that although
it would be helpful in rationing matter-, nevertheless
such notices vere posted, the people should st nd on
their own feet, ulu any marsinal help lo mi ht fford
would be far offset by the obvious ill effect it would
have on the freedou and democratization of the people.
since, as Nolan stated, in about 65, to 75,s o1 the
places, the people luvor return of the system, t is may
Indicate  weaknesses in Japan's new democraey. Having
had authoritarian contrel on the lowest level so long,
the people still loo.. to it for a hel i ld, because
they have gone intellectually luzy undor that control.
This type of thinkin was noticible in several other
uestions at Hobeoka.
Por example, there would seer to be a compartmentali-
zation in their thinking. the uestion conce hed who
drafted bills presented to the city assembly. The
uestioner seemed to think that if assemblyren presented
bills, then meibers of the executive departient should
not have that right directly or indirectly. The people
seem to rasp the compartmentallz tion of the three basic
administrative unite o mericen goveriment (executive,
legislative und judicial) ut they do not sense the
value or necessity of fluidity betveen tho tlree.
Other  uestions oncerned technical conpurisons
between local overiment in the United tutes nd Japan.
uestioners vere surprised at the comparatively crall
nuaber or a ssemtlymen und city officihls in uhe United
states. They were sur rised so fimd that ln some res-
pects city overmene in Jupan ms more sernalistie
than abroad. iseussi on also centered b ut the recall
and its abuse. Une wustion concerned ow lne citisens
could be dravn into runnin, for office. lat uid demo-
cracies in the west o when ail c ndidates were not
suituble for the ofrice?
Uther uesvlona refl etou difficultles cncountered
in collectin taxes under ost war chnotic ceonomic
conditions

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
-7-
conditions as augmented by the five natural disasters
recently visited upon the prefecture. It was pointed
out that the people were unable to pay their taxes.
Particular hardship wus felt because the three tax
offices, village, prefecture and national were unable
to a ree in their assessments. Because of this it was
stated reat discrepancies were frequently found in
taxes levied on the particular individual. This was
linked in with the scheol protlem, it beine claimed
that cert in villa e areas found it impossible to as-
sume the burdsn of their own schools under the new
educational syste.. (Under the old method the central
government helped the local areas to suy, ort the schools
by contributin; to school construction and te chor's
salaries.)
In commentin on this prouler Col.  imbericy of
the : iyazaki tear. stated that the difficulty occurred
because sose :luces started sel.ool constructior too
close to the cut-off lute (from the old to ne systems
of suy port). He felt that some assist nee would be
rendered by implemens tion of the hou, tax system.
olan told me that he had uestions tusut the
shoup tax systes rerlectin, fears that laree cld homes
would disappear under this systen. of tuxation.
uestioners ur ed that the tax be ussessed us-inst
those portions or the uwellings actually utilized.
There vere also uestions reflectin a disinclination
to send children to the school in the individual's
area for the re son that it w's a  oor one whereas one
close by wus well c.uipt.
It was to be not u at this coneerence that soth
attendance by women und uentions awout women were at
a miniraus. Une of the few wemen in attendance told me
that the women's organizations were not organised and
active at present. he uestions re m inly vt by
men and concerned the percenta e or women in p litics
in the nited thecs h what the wer en with anilies
did when they entered such careers.
The conferenee closed on the a 'teruoon of November
3, 194 dtl speeches of sppreciation ro te ayor,
and a speeck  r. olar. ivins  is evaluasion er the
confernce.
Conclusions
hile there to wn  rectmtlon c she value of
demoerney sn  iy i prubre, it seums to .e tho
whe omerl backhese or v rer cture. gmonted
by its wi stence Pron the eunter or overmsnt in Tokyo,
constitute consilerle obst cles to lemocracisation
yet to!: ovurenre.
uest ioms  out che tonuri-cuni-
Financial

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.91)
RESTRICTED
-8-
financial difficulties und conservatism in business
and overnment would seem to indicate that the people
have not advanced very far in their thinking about the
rights und duties of the free citizen (as opposed to
a controlled one) which is fundamental. Because of
relative lack of contact vith mericans and other
forei mers, I think it will take  iyazaki considerably
lon er to practice the democratic prineip les they now
have on paper in the Local atonomy law. The impact of
the energenee of a  anese type of democracy in the
more proressive  reas of Japan will probai ly serve as
the sti ulus neuded by the prefecture after the ccu-
pation vithdrove. Mis refecture is lilustr tive of
the uneveness of prope atin the basic coneepts of
democracy in Ja , nd aleo throvs doubt on wisdom
of the policy of re ov  all  llit ry Government teams
at ohe time. ather - bott r poliey i ht ave been
co set up eivil ffair re ions in the mor ro rossive
arons untd retain toame in some presecourcs, mulnly
for eivil mrormation mmd sducclion tpe of esivity
alon le al md everm ene lines.
illimm. Tmgistreoti
merican vdoe Jonsul
REDTRICTED

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
(For Department's Use Only)
MEMORANDUM REPORT
November
28
1949
UJLT: Local Government Conference at Beppu
The twentieth and concluding Local sovernment
conference, under the auspices of the Legal and
Government Jection, Civil Affairs Division, Sth Army,
was held at Beppu, Cita Frefecture on November 10 and
11, 1949.  hile it was initially planned that a
conference would be held in a city of each prefecture
in Japan, the sudden change of the Civil Affairs
Division from the Sth Army to C.P entailing shifting
of personnel and controls at approximately the half
way point forced at least a temporary finale. However,
it should be noted that the twenty conferences completed
were scattered through the various areas of Japan, and
thus, all regions have been covered lthough not all
prefectures.
As detailed in my former Hemorandum Reports on
these conferences (See: Memorandum Report re Uji-
Yamada dated Octoher 10, 1s49) the seneral pattern of
the two day meeting is the same. The first day is
devoted to an opening ceremony followed by precentation
of either four or five prepared specches concerning
various aspects of city or village overnment. The
second day is devoted to "our or five small discussion
groups. The lecturers then alternately visit with
these groups for a period oi an hour or more for the
purpose of answerin uestions from those aszembled.
The second day is concluded with a urief ceremony.
Frior to our arrival in e pu, members of the Oita
Hilitary govirnment team to ether vith the mayor and
city officials had luid the round-work. ell over a
thousand invitations had been sent out to mayors, chiefs
of city or village assemblies and assemblymen. In
addition basie  lans for the conference were wade
subject to confermution  our roup the day prior to
the conierence.
The selection of perpu for the conference (as I
discovered to be the sume in the case of other cities)
was mainly
BETRICTLD

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
- 2 -
was mainly on the suggestion of the National Association
of Mayors to Mr. Cecil B. Tilton, Chief, Legal and
government Section. While Cita, the capitol, is the
principal industrial city, Beppu proved to be excellent
for the conference because the officials and hotels are
skilled in handing conference and tourist trade, the
city's principal industry. However, because of this
trade the city is cosmopolitan in character and not
particularly typical of the prefecture. I was told
that most of the inhabitants are people who have migrated
from other parts of Japan. There are extremely few
persons who were born in the city. Che of the few is
the mayor, Mr. Tetsuichi Waki. But even he spent the
last twenty years as a judge in Seoul, Korea. Because
of this complex character of the city, he told me that
he encountered considerable political difficulty. The
city in part is contolled by political bosses (probably
through control of restraunts and houses of assignation)
on the one hand, and the communists or extreme leftists
are very vocal on the other. Cne evidence of this was
the large number of Kabe Shimbun (Wall Mewspapers)
posted on the walls of buildings in all parts of the
city. The mayor is un independant, and refuses to
acceed either to the desires of the bosses or the
Communists.
Because of recent amalgamation the city now has an
estimated population of 100,000. An internationally
known spa city (featuring such oddities as "Red Hell"
"Sea Holl" and other hot springs), the principal income
of the city is derived from t xes on she hotels, reet-
raunts, anusement places and girt shops featuring
bamboo ware. However, the mayor voiced creat concern
over new changes in thke wan laws whielh will divert the
major portion of such taxes to the preiecture, thus
leaving the city of Bepu vithout its main source of
funds.
while she city ls an exceptionally clcan and say
touriss mecea, the s.ske stacks of a steel plaet and
cement plant loom on ohe distane outskirts, the only
industrial aspect to be noted. There is wiae-scale
small factory or hone industry aetivity, however, since
the eity is known lor its woven baaboo ware, ane wood-
carved items (little carved wooden contuiners) which
are prominently dieplayed in shops throughout the city.
The rood position would seem to be exeeptionally good.
stores in the main streets displayed counters laden
with all types of food dear to the Jupanese heart, and
large numbers of small cating stalls  ly their trade
until late at night. In part this may e attributed to
the position of the city (near sea  nd farm) and to the
fact that it was unbombed.
Perhaps
RSTRICTED

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.82)
RESTRICTED
-3-
Perhaps as a counter-measure to a drop-off in
intern tional tourist trade, the mayor told me of plans
for the future improvement of the city. At present he
is ne otiating with appropriate government offices in
Tokyo for improverent of Leppu's port facilities. The
mayor as rt   lor development of Beppu as an
intern tional trane city. He stated tlat the cities
of a  s ki rma ekaet (port or Pukucka) had developed
because of the J pan e tovernment's emphasis on the
hin- or t n the near future, at leust, the
resumptior or tlae v st flow cannot be unticiputed.
dontrarisise t cosu coast of kyushu should reasonably
anticipate mor. ure e  rom the United States. In this
respecs bempu is  an auvantageous position to save
vessels the orip up oo the poji-Shimonoseki wrsa. Rail
fucilities out sf e pu to all Myushu areas ure good.
and probably could be easily expanded to meet inereased
demands for service. The mayor suggested thst at the
ap ropriase fusure time the bepartment's represensatives
in Japan mi he iike to consider Beppu a  Lo ieal
placc Por o enin  consulate.
I vhon asked nis opinion regardinm ou resent
proule  to hether  consulate should be opened
Pirst  t Pukuoka or at mugasaki. the muyor is that
Fukuoke would be ths appropriate plaee t presont. He
said sae lageeaki bes not regained its pro-mer import-
ance ( n pur orin to the port's orlenbatfon toward
China), smd staocd slmt in any event sp uo lin station
  uk  of
Bakeoa to foorly cetave oe presene, wad further offors
a cabsmsiss es centration or ceeumsler personnel.
It ts pentrally located on the islane of Kyushu  nd in
an adv  sous oulclon bo orfer servlses to she
e  weriene nd Jeanese. ked
at len mte y  aous Japanere pusineesrmen pr efficials
in   rdee ue ne
  o o port rovee pro  she
mayor o wo ou o o ylune yor otuy eor ou aprove
1.0115
obourn oooter weliti see.
The  d   o  n.
 fe conernee e e  o, if
s 
ma sls oruerey pre reee o  
cor   f 
yo re  y  e  aese prinele
ordreseur si.
Pos, d ep pu che conference convened promptly as
9 a.. on  ovemcer loth. The brlef words or greeting
from the
RESTRICTED

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
- 4 -
from the Japanese officials--contrary to usual practice--
were really brief. nd we found ourselves ahead of time
when Major Thomas Cockrell, commanding officer of the
local Military Government team, made his speech. As
elsewhere in Japan, the team is in process of inventoring
its property and records in order to turn them over to
the Kyushu Civil ffairs Region at Fukuoka as of the
first of Dec moer. Consequently the Major devoted a
portion of his speec to a farewell to the people and
an appreciation o their support. He emphasized that
the two main points o his administration had been the
economic stabilization and the democratization of the
prefecture. le felt that good steps forward had been
taken in both, nd opined that more pro ress would be
made in the future under the Region.
Next on the pro ram was Mr. ichael . Nolan,
senior member of the th Army roup. r. Nolan was a
probate judge in  ichigan for many years ans also a
National Labor elations Board attorney. He ave much
the same speech as he had at Nobeoka. (ee my Memo-
randum Report on Nobeoka, dated November 23, 1949).
Judge Koichi Inomata of the Tokyo High Court guin
acted as his interpret r. Nolan as usual went over
very well. He is particularly ifted in illustrating
his talks with amusing stories of interest to the
Japanese.
At Nolan's request the writer agait presented paper
one in Japanese. loth papers one und tip were presented
before lunch. It was hoted thes the sudienee was having
difficulty underst ndinr naper number two, as the inter-
preter was new to the wora, and unable to put his
material across throuch lack of background in the tech-
nical subject matter. Unlike the speech at Nobeoka,
however, he continueu to the end. The remainder of the
day was devoted to papers three, four nd five.
Upon completion of paper numoer 5 ir. Iichael .
Nolan then introduced Judge Inomata, who had acted as in-
terpreter for that puper. The Jud e, excellent at inter-
pretin, into living Japanese orasory, likewise made an
excellent brief speech indicatin the v lues from the
Japanese side of integrating fine principles or overn-
ment from the est into Japanee Life. betails of his
specch are iven in my report on the Nobeoka conference,
as he made much the same speech.
That evening we had dinner with the layor of Beppu,
Beppu officials ana prominent mayors and official in
attendance at the conference. Durin the course of the
meal I was able to converse at some length with these
various officials and obtain some of the information
woven into this report. I also feel that contacts of
future
RSTRICTED

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
-5-
future value to our work in Japan have been made through
this and other conference.
Durin the course of the evening one of the Nisei,
Department of Army Civilian assistants to Mr. John
Rourke, Legal and Government Officer, Kyushu Region,
left the party given by the mayor to visit an on-limits
dance hall. Here he Was accosted by three inebriated
men whon he thought were nisei or alien Japanese who
repatriated to Japan after cessation of hostilities.
The men identified him as one of the members of our
grour and reviled him in extremely abusive language for
his participation in the local government conference.
Yoshide, realizing they were drunk, answered evasively
and in such a manner as to obviate physical violence
and an "incident".
Upon return to our special roilroad car that
evenint he related the above in detail to Mr. Rourke.
Rourke added that he was aware of certain o position
groups among the young men in Kyushu. However, his
conversution would indicate that he did not consider
the matter to be too serious. It should be noted, how-
ever, that this was the only time in the four conferences
which I have attended in which opposition was voiced in
such a violent form. It will be recalled that Kyushu
was the home of the tvo fighting clans which set Emperor
Meiji on uhe throne, and has a tradition of producing
hot-headed fi hoin m cn. The incident may be pertially
attributed to thls, asgrevated by the presence of dis-
gruntled repatriates from merica. hile yet an ap-
parently te liga le undertone, it is nevertheless
one to e elosely watched and analysed in the future.
On sn second day, Novemt r 11, 194y, the audience
of app exim se 13ou broke up inso four groups. As in
the pase, papers number 2 and 4 were comuined, it being
felt th ive discussion sroups vere soo unweildy, and
would dbo out vhe pro ram disproportionately. as I
have inete tsd da Jormer reports, a eroes cection ana-
lysis e t ucoviona broacheu in tha iscussion
groups .ffords tn interesting ond othorv lse uirficult to
obtain eres -section insight into mhe vrobleme of the
people sa ' ewene sr sh sore o derocrptie ideas
amon then.
Thil
u poeooorye foo boen noted
sreat  bera  founder of peo University,
it woule  ches ther is consideratle doubt in soile
areas cuews the vorkings of democreey. pne old man in
paroiculr
bout  value of demoeracy
in an
RESTRICTED

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
-6 -
in an apparently theoretical situation where he postu-
lated that 900 persons have the wrong view on an issue
and l00 the right view. In this connection, Nolan told
me that civic leaders in the rural areas of Japan were
experiencing considerable difficulty in putting across
ideas for the betterment of the people which entailed
an outlay of money. The typical attitude of the
farmers in particul r was that they didn't want it,
if it cost money. This, of course, in part is linked
with the difficult economic position in which the
farmers, like others, Tind themselves today.
fhus, an intelligent elderly village mayor rose to
tell me that the people in his village were very recep-
tive to uemocratic ideas, but his great difficulty lay
in luck of funds to hold town meetings, night schools
or other gatherin s designed to infor the people about
their new responsibilities and about city problems and
plaus. fle echoed the wish of another ofricial that
conferences similar to this one could be presented in
the various towns n cities tnrcu hout the prefecture
so that a huge se ment of the people could attend and
participate. (Nolan told me in private that he ersonal-
ly wished the same thing; that more memoers of the
general rublic could be drawn into these conferences or
separete ones held, ut so far personnel nu other con-
siderations precluded such conferences.)
As in former conferences, guestions again reflected
the difricult economic situation and tax problems. A
number of questions related to ways and means used in
the United otates to enforce tax payments or collections.
Others related to methods utilized to verify the correct-
ness of sar stater ent.. A few coneerned the ineruity of
assessments an' tob lolis used to correet  nem.
Some persons (mpparently Christian ministers) asked
the abstract puestion of whether morality or one law
was considered higher in the United States. tthers
indicated thet shere vas room for Buddhis to educate
the Japanese  eo le tn oy ry-day courbeay xd  ublic
sniritedness thus conerlbucing toward t e u tiding of
good citizens slon she linen of such  seivioy mong
Christian chmrches in she tnited st tee.  paher
humorous speaker yo se so a dvocate that leneral  carthur
make e personal vieit vo the "nerie am wm ine" - the
Usa ptrine, thereby shovriny a sy irit c eu lit mong
religions. This my be a round-abuut critieisr of
Macarthur'e esposul or Shristianity Por the Jopanese.
The comstntly pecurrin: problen or Fanme For the
schoole, n the polies vas again broached. t every
conferonce I attenueu rave doubus were e xpressed by
serious leaders a sout che abilicy of some commnities
to support
RESTRICTED

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.85)
RESTRICTED
-7 -
to support their schools. There is a consistent request
that at least partial support for school construction
and te cher's salaries come from the prefecture or central
goverment. In diseussing the problem with Nolan he
said that he felt our experts in Tokyo had attempted to
graft an merican variety of school systen on Japanese
communities utterly unable to support them, ana that some
Lodification would have to be made in the future. As in
other cases, he decried the policy created in rokyo's
ivory towers by short-term American experts who knew
Litsle or nothin of che Japanese scene and ite needs.
a goodly um  of the cuestions refl cved concern
about educutio  reorientation or the J  hese people.
Intereut was  em n the methods whereoy voters in the
United states re  ble to teep abreast of current issues
and vote intelligently. Particular interest vs evi-
denced in civie or unisasions in the pural reae, as well
as methods oilt aucation. Cneusieuler coneern
was a demoeratle  echeu of denying elvie ri hes to those
who refused so wssume civie responsi silities. in
several inst nees I ave noted either an expreesed or
impliesd feelin shat she Japanese peo ae us  whole are
very caparl of assercing their ri hts ant  ually
capable or dodgin responsibilities. How did mericans
succect in awakenln she people co sheir civle duties?
thosher tre or wu s fontn re umin chreu h this
and osher co Per wees as about she purt ich policical
parties play in local poliuics in the uniced states.
The u stionere e  ehely in temtsd shae Jupumese
peliciou pertse a little op s foercpe or roots"
i she losapm Mhey   do local policicul organi-
zai ve   l  l es or
taking  posisson on local sseuss. hhe pesuls vas shat
the people wer reeuently  o a losy  so e leetion of
candidabes. has ds you do when all ohoss punning are
not of a calibre muicble for s ofr ser Jonversstions
about she co fer pnee with sther omberw  whe ilitary
sover ome ro rovealed ohat ts a e eular
challun t s fueure or demeer ey tr Ja  The
Communises mton mons she policical posee ve carried
ther  e  ues so she e roo. the
lar ur slisie  purbles,  owever, do oe e chapters
active or the loel scne, ne eisr sumoe or co not
lis.
Uu  e a she o e ies do
hnhd a ir oor eture pon loe pnehes re prosenting
the optatone of the peopte or s ar r speetate comund-
thee tn wer tocir proper stere or o pope csainst
comnunist
TRICTD

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRICTED
-8 -
communist infiltration in the local areas it would
seem that politics and government on the local level
will be considerably retarded. This is no particular
brief for politic l parties and their activities but
these and other conferences which I attended have con-
vinced me that either the major Jananese political
parties or so: e e puivalent local politicul c ub had
better step into the local political vacuur which
generally previls so as to ive the people good candi-
dates und so e substant ial organization upon which t hey
con rely or premontation of the issues. The advent of
such roups would also substantially prevent the fairly
wide-spread boseisn in Japanese local politics. Such
bossisi is not on  political party basis (where it is
also not to be condoned) but rather on a locul vested
interest basis  ore or less completely divorced from
any s ense of resronsibility to the people. To the
extent that such practices cont inue democracy will be
retarded in Japan, for while the super-structure may be
democration in for the basis will continue te be rule
of the rew with no effective political represuntation
of the views of the many in organized and res onsible
rashion in she riner tradition of our own olitical
parties.
As a result of this situation r. Ymamote, active
in the national mayors association and former career
diplomet in the Japanere Foreign Serviee, tole ne that
serious minded Japanese were not takin as much interest
as they should in local politics. He confirmeu that
the seene was shared by the bosses nd the com mumists.
As one means to brin in good blood, he sug ested that
the  rge should re reevaluated. He said that a number
of mayore had b en sleeted to office frou re-war days
and consinued in office during the war. The ir role in
support o? the wor effort had just been that of my
patriotie citizen vhen his country is at wa and little
More. am iusedly some had direetly assisted in Japan's
agressive intentions ne the war, sut the mejority of
mayors  re in h ebe ory just mentio ed.Iifting of
the yurse in eueh cuses would baiay ueh noedes politi-
cal cxperience nd meumen to the loc al eeene. Yamamoto
sais that this feulin was vwidely helu wmon the Japanese
people. In t is conmeetion it should be noted that
there is aparently a certain umoune or consr  by puryed
politie i leadere. In my memorundum re orto Popwarded
under cover of Yokohuma's Despasch No. lse, u jeet,
analysis or eeent Changes in lilitary Joverment
Structure in J. tn, septomber 7, 1949, 1 rel sed how
the Legal una lovepnmsnt Officer of the hizueka military
Government tean. told me how his investijution had
subst htioted charges that the pur ed  yor o the
large ciey of Mumazu still indirectly ran the city.
He said that he had forwarded his report through chan-
nels wut nothing was ever done  out she situation. I
have
REST.ICTLD

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTRICTED
- 9 -
have al so had a reliable report of such situations
existing in the rural areas of Nagasaki prefecture.
'hile quesuions asked me had little to do with
Communism, Nolan told me that he encountered a number
of them in his meetings with the four sroups. Most of
these he considered to derive from a healthy interest
in setting behind communist claims and stopping them.
One questloner asked him about Communist papers and
pamphlets which stateu that Japan was actually being
placed in a position of serfdom to the United  tates
throu h acceptin so much United States aid. Nolan
replied that evervone realized that Japan could not
furnish her own people enough to eat at present. At
such time as the Communists put rice into the people's
rice bowls insted of paper propaganda slips, serious
Japanese would t ke note of what they said.
In addition to these questions others were asked
Nolan showin a coneern on the pert of the people about
the weakness of their police force in copin with Com-
munist violence. This concern is probably related to
news of the Iit ha derailing trial now prominently
printed in the press. In this trial it is alleged that
certain leftist union leaders derailed a train at the
Mitaka statien msur Tokyo thereby killin or injuring a
number of persons. Nolan tole me he felt thet the
police were as yet unskilled in learning about and
preventiny th is bype of illegal violence. Some persons
thou ht that the Lonuri-gumi (neighborhood association
system) should te revived to compat such a menaee.
(For more detailes discussion of the pros und cons of
this wide spreau requese for revival of phe. sowarl-
gumi see my memorundum repcrt on the conferonse at
Nobeok, abed noventer 23, 1949.)
Liss lice urke who handled the discussion group
relative co the assembly told me she obte ined a number
of questions asout ohe extent of women's activities in
polities in the united states. It should be noted that
very few women were present at the meeting in Beppu.
As far as I could ascertain there were about 25 or 30
in the 1guo persons assembled. The same tendeney was
noticed in Nobeoka, so it may be that the vomen in
Kyushu are havin a more difficult tims aeserting their
equality, shan in Honshu. At least that is so in my
own ex eriene. wieh these conferences.
In addieien liss Burke received a mumber of tech-
nical u esions bout che assembly and vhether it is party-
elected in the United States. she said she also had
some a out improvement of the schools, and throughout the
country haa received au ustions about birth control.
After
RSTRICTLD

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.93)
RESTRICTED
(For epertment's use only)
Yokohama Branch,
ffice of the U. S. Political Adviser,
Yokohana, Japan, ecember 7, 1949.
The Houorable
illien. ebal,
Acting United tntes olitical Adviser,
Tolyo, J.
sir:
Refererce is made to this office's Confidential des-
petch, drted ovonber 25, 194s, tre .snitting c copy of a
emorandum Report pre crcd by Foreign Service Officer
'illien L. AdIsTR TtI regar in  trip he hod made to
Uji-Yemade vith  ivil ffrirs Tee of the sighth Army.
The two separate reports on the  yushu trip, dated Hovem-
ber 23, 1949, end ovember 28, 1949, respectively, are
transmitted horewith.
These two reports co plete the coverere of the trips
nede by Hossrs.  Aolaenarat  FIr with the Civil Affairs
Teans to various nerts ef orrn. Teken collectively, the
reports constitute  brc'roun of inforration obtained by
the  eportuent's renresentotives fron Japanese peroons in
verious welks of life re arsin the Occupetion one JCAr Is
locel cutonomy progre. loth: reports point out the diffi-
cultics oxporionce unier ths loccl cutonony lew, end ir.
Vecistretti cuestions tho policy of withdrawing Civil
/ffnirs es s Pron the more brciasr croes simultaneously
with those of more pro re cive re ions.
r. aristretti states  lis :omorendum teport,
...conomic
ceted  overber 2s, 154:, :s follovs:
ifficulties in city rnd rurtI ores like join hends
with on outmode tax structuro to place  stagcering
bursen on the citien ne tome with their new and in-
crerned loe un or the locr1 cutonony Inw. ..."
T wisn to trko this or ortumity to conmend both
osors.  evistretti  Pira for their s lendid Job of
re ortin in connection

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.87)
RESTRICTED
Yokohome, Japen
necenber'7, 1949
-2-
reporting in connection with these trips. I trust that
a con endntion may be entered in their efficiency records.
Respectfully yours,
James . Pilcher
 criean Consul General
melosurer:
1. enoree un teport deted
ovenber 23, 1919.
2.enoreum te ort dnted
overer 2, 1540.
350
 :
triTicto vo iton
cotothe rtt

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
his ability to restrict his mission to general supervisory obeer-
vation of the activities of the Japanese Government, with contact
between SCAP Headquarters and the Japanese Government only at the
highest levels on questions of broad governmental policies.
The difficulties in the way of this objective have been
great, however. Althought the necessity for sweeping public direc-
tives to the Japanese authorities to carry out occupation programs
bearing little relation to the controlling party or party's plat-
form or announced princlples largely disappeared furing 1947,
SCAP has been compelled on several occasions during 1948 and 1949
to force the government into a course not of its own or its supporters
choosing. One such instance was in August, 1948, when the Ashida
Government was required by ScAP to amend the National Public Ser
vice Law to forbid public service employees the right to strike
or brgain collectively. The Socalists popular following felt that
the Party representatives in the Cabinet who participated in
this action had betrayed their interests, with the result that the
Socialists lost heavily in the general elections a few months
later. Another instance was in April, 1949, when SCAP required
the Yoshida Government to submit to the Diet a budget for the
1949 fiscal year embodying features opposed by Yoshida and his
followers and contrary to their compaign pledges. To minimize
political embarrassment in such instances Yoshida early adopted
a policy of refusing to carry out orders distasteful to himself
and his following without written instructions from General Macarthur
himself, and his prestige among the Japanese has been such that
he has

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISN OF
ACTION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
18
SECRET
Action: OLI
Info
:
Rec'd Apr11 4, 1949
E
3:45 a.m.
P
FE
File
POS
TePH
DCR
FROM: Tokye
URIMENT OF STATE
TO:
feerevary of State
RCEVED
NO:
0 68os (Army Meseage)
1
08
94.00 (W)/4-149
JOLLT VEEY: HUmbeP C6 FROM ARMY-AIR
AND LTENLE SITION
SECRET FILEH
70
CECRET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSINED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To :
Dept of Army for CSGID Wash DC
Info:
Dept of Air Force Wash DC
Nr
C 68952
1 Apr 49
SubJeet 1s Joint Army-Air WEEKA Number 26.
Japene
Polatical:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Government: Government hopes to present 1949-195o budget to
Diet 4 April. Premier Veshida plans to give his policy
address 4 April. Stpplementary budget for first 15 days
of April subnitted to Dier 29 Mareh. Same day lower house
epproved, deupite strong opposision, appointment of 30-man
Examination Commi tee whioh will take over funetions of
Former Illega) Pr perty Transections Committee. Revolt
inside Demosratio-Viberal Party continues but party leaders
believed sapable of controlling it.
Economic:
(B) Economis changes: Curreney did not rise at
conths end, stood at 314 billion yen on 29 March. Rice
tolleetions were 102.8 percent on 20 March, most successful
since oecupation.
(0) Lacor: Organized laber intensifying campaigns
egaines do canment resrenehmeae programe end poseible
revision or existing lator laws
Eoomes
(A)
Proposed or aetual evonowd changes dr reforms:
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49)
120
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-B11947

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
ING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 68952
Page2
Radio Pyongyang Broadcast Joint USSR-North Korea Communique
21 March announcing consummation economio, cultural agreemon
between the countries; agreement provides increased cirou-
lation commodities during 1949-1950; stipulates payment
terms for goods exchanged; grants North Korea credits for
purchase commodities ncticovered by agreement; provides
economic aid, technical assistance for North Korea; arranges
future conferences to strengthen cultural, economic, artistio
ties.
Comment: Reports from NortheKorea indicate politlcal,
economic, cultural advisers remained North Korea when Soviets
terminated occupation; Soviet technicians currently ocoupy
key positions North Korean industry; military:advisers
attached Reoples Army units of battalion size and larger.
Agreement apparently designed to legalize, increase ties
already existing between North Korea, USsR.
Military:
(B) Major changes in Command, organization, equip-
ment and strength: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 214, 26 March 49
pertaining President Rhees instruetions for Chough Byung Ok
to request additional United States arms, equipment for
South Korea.
Comment: Rhee possibly confident of attaining
objective through Washington lobbyists. If requests denied,
Rhee may issue seare-stetements to influence favorable
action; equipment for inereasing Army to authorized strength
100,000; Navy to strength 10.000 possib1y desired.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 214, 26 March 49 containing report
that North Korean Peoples Army limited to 50, C00 troops un-
less additional economic aid received from USSR.
Comment: Food produetion North Korea reportedly
Iow and levies for supporting armed forces heavy. However,
Communists apparently have attempted to minimize drain on
CM IN 13835
(1 pr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948-O-811947

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.94)
CLASSHED
SECRET
NODMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 68952
Page 3
North Korean economy since Peoples Army troops billeted
primarily at former Japanese military installations;
Manchurian grains obtained to supplement North Korean
produce; bulk arms, ammunition received from Soviets; uni-
form cloth imported from USSR. Recent reports indicate
increased Soviet aid to North Korea; Soviet freighters
unloaded military supplies North Korean ports January 49;
pact providing increased Soviet economic aid, technical
assistance signed March 49. Peoples Army reportedly undor-
going expansion, reorganization with some indications that
astivation Tth Division planned. Program to establish
reserve force possibly initiated North Korea. Limitation
Feoples Army scrength beeause of lack Soviet aid appears
doubtful; ir strength pegged at 5c,c0o this figure possibly
represents Communist estimates of standing Army necessary
to ascomplisk deslred objectives.
(0) Troop mevements and concentrations, incidents
and operations: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 214, 25 March 49 pertaining
courttmartial of issidents South Korea.
Commene: Inplementatlon or program started slowly
but gradually gained momentum, less than loo dissidents
remain unapprehended. Serlousness of Government attitude
toward dienidents indleaved by hereh sourt sentences.
Reras USAr2Y 2Gey 214, 26 Mareh 49 portaining rebel
Bstavity South Koree.
coumen:
Revels mersing continued suecesses in
lasess teetaes of ambusbtng Sovernment reinforeements.
Abous 25c rebels toeated South Cholla, South Kyongsang
provAnees, majoravy dn Wensern Seetor Soueh Kyongsang
provanee Commntato epparene ly dmplementing well organized
plans in Sou th ohetla provinee sinee acout Ct pereent
Berlous dase rranses ot Kerean matnlend during Janwary-Febe
ruary ceepr n thet rov nrs
Rarad UsAF E S031 214, 76 Mar  49 pertaining opera-
tlonak plans or vombas Jemmend
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
C 68952
Page 4
Comment: Combat Command should eliminate
dissidents near future since unit numerioally superior
better equipped. Liaison planes will facilitate Army
lecating dissidents rugged mountainous regions. Korean
mainland probably will be comparatively free. of disorders
if dissidents South Cholla, South Kyongsang provinoes
eliminated.
Pak Ii Won former member South Korean Labor Party
(SKLP) assassinated Seoul 29 March; shot while enroute to
lection Headguarters Chang Taik Sang, former Foreign
Minister. Pak formerly Chief Detectives Seoul; while
Occupying position released pamphlet entitled "Criticism
f SKLP". Assassin beldeved member SKLP; one suspect arrested.
Comment: Pak was second anti-Communist killed in
period two weeks. Mrs Ethel Underwood, United States
missionary killed 17 March while holding non-Communist
gathering in home. Appears that South Korean Communists
have launched campaign to eliminate opposition leaders.
Airoraft carrier reported Najin (4210-13015) North
Korea 22 December 48 by city resident; at initial inter-
rogation source stated he observed superstructure, funnel,
froken flight deck, three bomm boats. Upon reinterrogation
he emphasized differences in elevations of forward and after
parts flight deck; stated ship had tripod mast, pointed bow;
recalled several single engine aireraft lined up fore deck
facing aft.
Comment: Report unconfirmed and omission significant
acts during initial interrogation indicates statements of
doubtful veracity; broken deck would restriet flight
operations; bow shape dces not conform to standard flight
strueture. Although source did not identify eranes or
catapaults, vessel possibly aireraft tender. However, if
planes actually observed on deck considered more likely
vessel was coastal aireraft transport or stationary training
ship.
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-B11947

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 68952
Page 5
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reaction to important events: In probe of
charges against newly elected Senate President Cuenco, most
volatile group seeking custer is Liberal Party group from
Cabu, Cuencos native province. Group seeks to prove Cuenco
ged' "strong arm" methods in political career including
hreats of bodily harm and death, and took advantage senato-
rial position in several business enterprises. Group has
requested results of previous investigation concerning sur-
plus property transaction, Immigration Bureau quota racket,
Cetails 1948 USSR cement transactions and violation of
dcuble compensation ruling.
Open breach exists in Manila Liberal Party between
Xanila Mayor Manuel De La Fuente, pro-Quirino, and former
Mayor, presently Racing Commissioner, Valeriano E (middle
:nitial) Fugoso, pro-Avelino.
Probable parties in presidential campaign include:
(1) Quirino Faction Liberal Party. (2) Avelino Faction
Tiberal Party.
(3) Nationalista and Coalesced Minorities
Party. (4) New "Peoples Army" recently formed by Antonio
Quirino, borther of President.
Military:
(A) Contemplated ehanges in policy: Proposed merger
Army (HNDF) and Constabulary (PC) continuing meet strong oppo-
sition from National Defense Seeretary Ruperto Kangleon and
presidential advisor on peace and order, former Brigadier
Gtreral Guillermo Franciseo, wartime head of Japanese con-
trolled Pc. Congressional opinion, though not crystallized,
is generally in favor merger. Prineipal proponent Congress-
xan Ramon Magsaysay, Chairman House National Defense
C.mmittee.
Two batteries FA and 8 PC and Army companies commeneed
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
πr : 0 68952
Page 6
"Operation SMASH" against dissidents Candaba swamp area
Neuva Ecija and Bulacan provinces, scene of increased
Hukbalahap (Huk) activity past two weeks.
Concerned over Neuva Ecija situation, Governor Juan
Chioco announced he will reactivate civilian guard organi-
zation, disbended several months ago on orders Secrebary
Interior.
(0) Incidents and operations: Police constabulary
reports, tantatively confirmed by customs service, secret
aervice, and Department intericr, state undetermined number
Chinese Communists illegally landed on shores Quezon province.
Simultanecusly, police constabulary units in combat Nueva
Eoija reported engaging Huk band composed of Chinese.
easants in Candaba swamp area are reportedly being told
that Huks are receiving aid trom Russia through China Com-
wunists and will be able to start large scale offensive in
Tew months.
Philippin? constabulary endeavoring oust Security
ontrol Santion Direotor. Captain Jose M (middle initial)
Tinio, G 2, InDF, due laek cooperation in providing refugee
girls te Philippine constabulary Visaya (Samar) Zone Head-
suarters dan e.
Souree comment: Tinic competent and probably best
direeter available from Philippine agencles. Altercation
wall only hamper Seem atsy Control Seotion efforts.
RYCOMB
Polltical:
(A) Important changes or conbemplated ehanges in
Joverument and domestie and foresgn polieies: Okinawa
Assembly proposed the following reccmmendations for Malstary
Jovernmen) vonsideration. (1) To eleet chairman and vice
shalrman from Assembly mambers; (2) To meet onee each
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICI 1948 O.811947

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 68952
Page 7
month; (3) To call special meetings at demand of one
quarter or more of members; (4) Members to decide length
of session; (5) Each member to have a voice; (6) Military
Government officer to attend all sessions; (7) To set up
public works, finance, education committees within Assembly;
(8) To establish an administrative office for Assembly;
(9) To grant members expense allowance while in attendance.
Numbers 1, 3 and 6 were disapproved by Military Government;
2, 5, 7. 8 were approved; 4 and 9 were approved but subject
to discretion of Governor. Reliable sources indicate
Peoples Farty has been split into three factions: Progres-
sive, Conservative, and Radical.
Air:
(Reported by FEAF):
Japan:
Subversive:
Communist activities Tachikawa Air Force Base being
tepped up by infiltration of young Japanese Communist
Party members into positions on base: house to house member-
ship campaign has been reported and subversive literature
circulated.
An iFF was stolen from an unguarded USAF C-47 at
Aaneda Air Ferce Base, Tokyo, 24 Mareh 1949.
The Communist supported Labor Unions at Ashiya Air
Foree Base have started membership drive. Two Japanese
astionels were diseovered copying air installation office
Ciles at Itazuke Air Foree Base.
Okdnawer
Subvereive:
Tenslon mounting between white and colored troops at
Wahe Air Foree Base.
Double standares and diserimination is
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C:68952
Page 8
charged by colored troops. Investigation in progress.
Marianas-Bonins:
Two hangars and one warehouse destroyed by fire,
21 March 1949 at Isley Field, Saipan.
Philippines:
(C) Operations and incidents: Ballistic tests
conducted by philippine constabulary on weapons confiscated
from Mabalacat Police Department positively identified 5.
weapons which were used in ambush of USAF truck 12 March,
which resulted in death of one United States airman and
:hree Filipino girls, and wounding of five Filipino civilians.
14 suspects now include the Mayor and Chief of Police of
Mabalacat, a Barrio Pampanga province near Clark Air Force
a.nse.
Subversive:
Fuel Line to number one generator on AACS radio
range site at Clark Air Force Base was cut on 27 March 1949.
Range continued operational by using number two generator.
Note: 214 is CM IN 12575 (25 Mar 49) ID
ACTION: ID
INFO:
AF, NAVY, PO, STATE.
CM IN 13835
(1 Apr 49) DTG: 010829Z dgk/D
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.89)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TLEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
FILE
SECRET
YePH
9
sction:
OLI
Irfo:
T:
FROM
POYYO
P
FE
T
Secretory af State
POS
B pri 49 army Message
DOR
039
BO  ARY VY bE 27
894.00(W)/4-849
SECRET F
TAKEL

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
JNCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Toyko Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C 69089
8 Apr 49
Subject is Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 27.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Premier Yoshida presented his policy speech
before both houses of Diet 4 April. Speech well received by
Diet, enjoyed usual poor press following day. He was
followed by Director-General Aoki of the economic stabilization
board and Finance Minister Ikeda, who explained economic
and financial policies in governments 1949-1950 budget,
submitted to budget committee 4 April. Sessions of 5,
5 anl 7 April devoted to interpeliations of Yoshidas speech
by each opposition party speaking in turn. Communist
Secretary-General Tokuda declared Yoshida was "Worst
traitor in history" and charged him with selling out
Japans natural resources and government monopolies to
foreigners. Further extention of current Diet session,
scheduled to end 21 April, by about 14 days is anticipated
if present session is to consider group of bills providing
for reorganization administrative branches government.
Revolt inside Democratic-Liberal party has subsided. Party
has 17 of 30 seats in new examination committee.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency continues to
contract, stood at 310 billion yen 2 Apr1l.
CM IN 15297
(8 Apr 49)
137
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE · 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69089
Korea:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, domestic and foreign policies: Rerad USAFIK
ZGBI 223, 3 Apri1 49 pertain1ng UNgOK plan to study
withdrawal occupation trooos.
Comment: President Rhee probably views action
unfavorably in view assemblymen by-passing him to gain
objective with UNcOk: Rhee speech contributed to defeat
same issue in assembly 7 February. Commission has made
l1ttle progress in achieving assigned objectives:
apparently petiton requesting withdrawal occupation troops
made favorable impression on some commission members.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 Apri1 49 pertaining assembly
discussion of dissipated 1948 budget fund.
Comment: Heavy program before assembly could be
expadited if assemblymen would concentrate on gover. ment
affairs instead of petty bickering with executive branch.
Rerad USAFIK ZOBI 223, 3 April 49 pertaining
arrival Miguel Angil Magana, El Saivadors delegate to
UNCOK.
Comment: Mister Magana arrived Secul 26 March;
former consul general, New York City; completes 7-
nation United Nations commission.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 Apr11 49 pertaining
arrest Yang Ju Sam under provisions national traitor law.
Comment: Apparently arrest made to embarrass
Rhee; action is example of internal friction prevelent
between legislative and executive branehes gover ment
indicates readiness assemblymen to use authority to
CM IN 15297
(8 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69089
page 3
further own ambitions. Trials of collaborators and
enforcement sentences probably will determine effectiveness
of law; will present opportunity to determent whether
person will escape punishment by "proving" repentance,
as law stipulates.
Military:
(B) Major changes in command, organization,
equipment and strength, Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 Apr11
49 pertaining increased strength national police.
Comment: Figure of 55285 represents substantial
gain of 6024 in one week. Ultimate strength planned
by Korean government not revealed but current figures
represent 1ncrease 20,285 over authorized strength of
35, O00 police which United States wil1 support under initial
United States-Korean agreement.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 April 49 pertaining formation
South Korean cavalry regiment.
Comment: Regiment 1ocated Seoul (3734-12700);
current strength 823. Cavalry well suited for patrolling
along 38 parallel; extensive training probably be required
to develop efficient cavalry units.
(c) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and operations, Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 April 49 pertaining
rebel activity South Korea.
Comment: Inereased tempo of goverr ment action may
result elimination dissidents near future; redels meeting
limited success ambushing armed forces.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 April 49 containing reports
of Chinese Communist troops North Korea.
CM IN 15297
(8 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-B11947

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69089
page 4
Comment:Reports unconfirmed, fragmentery but
ind1cate undetermined number Koreans who formerly serye
with Chinese Communist forces have arrived North Korea
these troops possibly being utilized to augment peoples
army.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 223, 3 Apr11 49 which refers
to tanks observed Pyongyang (3901-12544) rai1 yards.
Comment: unidentified peoples army tank unit
approximately regimental size reportedly located Pyongyang-
Mirim N1 (3902-12550) area; previcus reports 1ndicated
unit equipped 30-60 tanks. Shipment Soviet tanks to
Pyongyang indicates peoples army receiving additional
armored equipment from east coast ports or areas north-
eastern Korea. Enlargement armored force possiby part
current expansion prcgram peoples army. Soviet advisers,
technicians apparently instructing peoples army troops
in employment, maintenance armored equipment.
Unidentified battalion peoples army reported
Chaeryong (3824-12538) North Korea January 49; strength
700; equ1pment consisted approximately 12-4 ton trucks,
112 and  ton trucks, 8 artillery pieces, 1 Soviet tank.
Peoples army cavalvy troop with approximately 150 MDF,
80 mounts ovserved Hae ju (3802-12542) 5 February. Un-
iuent1fied cavalry unit 1ccated chcrwon (3814-12712)
February 49; strength 300 men;
quipment included 200
mounts, 8o horsedrawn carts.
Comnent: above reports unconfirmed but peoples
army possibly sctivating cavalry units southern provinces
where military training ereas exist. Peoples army officials
reportedly purchased undetermined number Japanese army
mounts Jonuary 48, rugged terrain Korea adapted horse
cavalry operations. First regiment, first division and
its second battalion lccated Chaeryong: artillery pieces
possinly belong to units of first divivion artillery
CH IN 15297
(8 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.88)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OP THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69089
page 5
regiment or units new independent mixed brigade; report
of tank in Chaeryong projects possibility peoples army
attaching or assigning tank troops to infantry units.
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reaction to important events: Investigation
immigration qucte racket nearing close, Judge Felipe
Natividad, chief investigator, received three letters
threatening death, bodily harm and political persecution
if uncenscred results investigation released to public.
Despite reliable reports to effect that members Guirino,
Avelino, and Perez ramilies invelved, prese statement
by Natividad indicates only senate cfficials concerned;
Clatly states no cffacsals of executive department involved.
(0) Trcep movemente and concentrations, incidents
and operatione, Hucoolehap (Euk) ectivity during last week
Mareh shoved major inerecue wath praneipel police cons-
tabulary (Pc)-Hük lasbee in Nueve Eei ge. Bulecan and
Terlae. Tn eigho uperadae meids in Nueve Beije diasident
units devosed effosboe t ambushtng vc end eavilien guard
unite. Muova Eoige govesnor Juan chicce argently requested
addi mmonel Po troope end seeetivatson werrtame guerrills
uniee and additional civaliar gunnd unáta to viee of
"crisie"
Brigediee Goneret Alberto Bomes PC chiet,
ordewed one aods baonat emmpevy po so Fuoye Beiga but
recommeneed guervs tae ane bonaelenel cavalaan cuurd urite
nor be peaobivaten t reee or
eny me .
 y
appeee te ot en to efee u mp ne Dos aao
seken o Cne n sumer n
by
Seuerer Papopbe free e ceeres
t aarebon Baoge
40)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69089
page 6
Taruc in command dissident offensive operations.
In letter to press 25 March allegedly written by
Taruc, appeal made to Filipino people to oppose any moves
Philippino government enter Pacific alliance pact.
In measure calculated offset increasing reports
unidentified submarine activity off Luzon coast, particularly
vicinity Quezon province, custons patrol, Philippine
naval patrol, Philinpine air force and PC coordinating
efforts detect, identify, and arrest all unauthorized
craft entering Philippine water.
RYCOM:
Political:
(A) Important changes in domestic policy: Okinawe
assembiy met with governor and civil administration officials
bringing to cicse recent strife between them.
Air:
(reported by FEAF):
Philippines:
Subvarsive:
Two dissient greups who reided Bario Baliti in
vicinity Clark Air Base 29 March 49 searching for foodstuffs
received no opposition from either Philippine constabulary
or local civilian
guards.
"Top-O-Clark" Club on Clark Air Force Base destroyed
by fire 2345. 29 March 49.
Comment: This is tenth ofricially recorded fire
at Clark Air Ferce Base since 1 January 49 and seventh
of unkonown origin.
CM IN 15297
(8 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69089
page 7
Note:
Time f1led 080339z
Time rec'd in DA Crypto 080715Z
Time rec 'd in Sc0 080831z
Note: 223 1: CN IN 14183 (3 Apr) ED
ACTION: ID
INFO : AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, SHATE
CM IN 15297
(8 Apr 49)
DTG: 080339z
ros/1
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMIICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
18
INCOMINSETEEGRAM
Acsion:
OLL
Info:
Rec'd Apri1 18, 1949
E
2 a.m.
P
FE
POS
UKI ANTN ENT OF STATE
. 4 DPTHBUTICN
mgle
DCR
FILE
APR 1 8 1949
RPH
T
894.00(W)/4-1549
SECPET FILE
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OFACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
OMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C 69265
JOINT WEEKA 28
15 Apr 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: budget stili in lower house budget committee,
may reach floor of lower house by 15th April. Communist
Diet members using usual obstructionist tactics in budget
committee to delay budget passing. No serious difficulties
expected as governments majority appears unshakeable. Chief
Justice Mibuchi expected to resign because of protracted
illness. No extension of session requested but believed
probable. Political interest centers in national convention
of Social-Democratic Party scheduled for 14th April, During
which final showdown is expected between left and right
wings.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency issue rises to
310 billion yen 9 April after hitting low of 308 billion yon
7th April.
Korea:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Government, domestie and foreign policies: Rerad USAFIK
ZGBI 233, iOth April 49 pertaining Prime Minister Lee Bum
Suks resignation submitted to President Rhee.
CM IN 16867
(15 Apr 49)
137
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GCVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET.
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69265
Page 2
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 233, 1Oth April 49 pertaining
United Nations Commissions letter to North Korean Government
Comment:
Apparently commission pessimlstic toward obtaining.
USSR cooperation for entry North Korea. President Rhee
probably opposes action fearing de facto recognition North
Korean regime. Sudden decrease propaganda attacks on
commission by radios Pyongyang and Moscow indicates
possible softening Communist policy toward commission.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI: 233, 10th Apri1 49 pertaining
Louise Yims alleged misappropriation government funds.
Comment:
Yim under assembly fire for various reasons since
appointed minister commerce, Industry August 48. Rhees
request that Yims activities be investigated indicates he
suspected irregularitios. Public opinion and seriousness of
charge possibly will result Yims dismissal despite long
friendship with president.
Military:
(B) Major changes in command, organization,
equipment and strength: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 233, 1Oth Apr1l
49 pertaining activation Marine Corps.
Comment:
Law on organization national armed forces passed by
National Assembly 15th November 48 does not provide
Marine Corps. Activation ambitious undertaking for
country economically weak as Korea. Action vill further
Arain republics budget and places approximately 126,450 men,
including national police, under arms, Republic continues
CM IN 16867
(15 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69265
Page1'3
expansion armed forces despite inability to equip them with-
out outside aid. However, Rhee appears confident obtaining
arms through Chough Byung Ok, recently named Korean Represen-
tative United Nations; Chough instructed to request additional
arms, equipment from United States.
(c) Troop movements and concentrations, inoidents
and operation: Rerad USAFIK ZG3I 233, 1Oth April 49
pertaining decreased rebel activity.
Comment:
Government has met marked success eliminating
cebels throughout South Korea, especially South Cholla,
South Kyongsang provinces and Cheju Island. Continued
government successes may result in period of comparative
peace, quiet Korea.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 233, 10th April 49 referring
independent underground organizations North Korea.
Comment:
Previous reports indicate disaffected elements North
Korea include farmers, laborers, policemen, military personnel
Civilian morale believed generally low result regimentation,
food levies, high taxes, nationalization industry, property
appropriations. However, recent Chinese Communist military
successes and Soviet withdrawal North Korea probably have
increased Communist prestige, bolstered North Korea morale.
Dissident activities severely hampered by North Korean
surveillance agencies and harsh disciplinary measures
administered suspected dissidents; unconfirmed report
stated 50,00o disaffected North Koreans sent to labor camps
Siberia, Sakhalin, Manchuria autumn 1948. Total 102
deserters armed forces known to have entered South Korea
since 15th Mey 48; reports indicate disaffeetion armed
forces declined recent months; sereening procedures, careful
CM IN 16867
(15 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
IOCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69265
Page 4
aeleotion inductees effective in eliminating disloyal
troops. No current evidence dissident elements sufficiently
orgenized or eguipped to seriously threaten stability North
Korean police state. However, cells of disaffection may
continue growth until conditions permit centralized organiza-
tion and effective dissident activities.
Approximately 300 Soviet troops stationed Kyomipo
(3844-12538) North Korea February 49; serving as advisers
peoples Army troops in area.
Comment:
Soviet advisers reportedly remained with Peoples
Army units battalion size and larger after official termina-
tion Soviet occupation North Korea. Peoples Army troops
observed Kyomipo possibly assigned independent mixed Brigade
Chinnempo (3844-12524): number Soviet edvisers appears
exaggerated.
Unidentified Artillery Battalion Firat Division
Peoples Army located Cheerycng (3824-12538) Maroh 49;
strength approximatoly 700; equipped with 12 Soviet 76
millimeter guns, 4 trucks United States manufacture.
Comment:
Available information indicates Peoples Army
Artillery Battalion strength 295: eguipped wish 8-76 milli-
meter guns, 4-l22 millimeter Howitzers. Unidentified Peoples
Army unit with 8 Soviet 76 willimeter guns, 23 trucks United
States manufacture reported Chaeryong January 49: engaged in
combat training, field firing. Reports indicate elements
First Division Artillery Regiment stationed Pyongyang
(3901-12544) heve been transferred Chaeryong or dispatched
to area for treining exereises.
CM IN 16867
(15 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194 O-B11947

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
ICOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69265
Page 5
Philippines:
Military:
(c) Incidents: Unknown number natives Quezon
Province seeking haven on Mindoro Island allegedly to
escape new foreign element whioh they believe to be Chinese
Communits infiltrating eastern coast Luzon and terrorizing
local inhabitants.
Bomb explosion occurred 1310 hours, 13 April 49,
in bomb storage area Clark Field Air Base, midway between
20 Station Hospital and Bambam River. Grass fire, under
control as of 1430 hours 13 April, caused 1 of 16 bomb
bays to explode. Known casualties: 1 USAF Sergeant wounded,
1 Filipino civilian killed, 23 Filipino civilians wounded.
Explosion blew out windows and doors in barracks area
approximately 2 miles from detonation site. 20 Station
Hospital, approximately 1 mile from detonation area,
evacuated. Drake Utah Grcve cement plant demolished.
Psychological:
(A) Press trends: Move to impeach Quirino, and
immigration reciprocity bill passed by house in retaliation
Australion non-Asiatic policy, topped domestic news during
week 3-12 Apr11
RYC OM:
Miscellaneous:
(A) Subversive: CIC investigation of Okinawan
representatives of Kosei Kai (Hawaiian Relief and Rehabilita-
tion Foundation), revealed connection with Uruma Shimpo
newspaper whioh is receiving copies of organization publica-
tion "Kosei Okinawa" from Hawaii. Nisei femele DAC
communicates with Kosei Kai Headquarters in Hawaii by
CM IN
16867
(15 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
COMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69265
Page 6
amateur radio.
Air: (Reported by FEAF):
Japan:
The all Japan ocoupation forcee labor union is
attempting to learn how the reorganization of the 315th Air
Division will affect the Japanese employed on eaoh Air Force
Base.
Philippines:
During week ending l0th April there were 21 outgoing
flights and 24 incoming flights at Manila International
Airport. Chinese composed approximately 75% of traveling
personnel.
Barrio Balibago, Angeles, immediately adjacent to
Clark Air Force Base, was raided by unknown number Huks
7th April without opposition by any government force.
Mayor of Angeles is apprehensive of a Huk strike against
his village at any time. It is estimated that there are
approximately 150 well armed Huks bivouaced about 3 miles
south of Clark Air Force Base.
Guam:
The bomb sight vault on North Guam Air Foroe Base
was partially destroyed by fire 10 April. Nc bomb sights
were destroyed.
ACTION: ID
INFO:
AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 16867
(15 Apr 49)
DTG150629Z
r1/D
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.94)
IVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT•OFSTATE
TELEGRAPHBRANCH
!NCOMING TELEGRAM
18
SECRET
Action:
OLP
Rec'd April 25, 1949
Info:
1:30 a.m.
E
P
FE
FRCM:
Tokyo
POS
DCR
TO:
Heeretary of tate
NO:
 69432. Apri) 22, 1949 (Army Message)
JOINT OEEKA 29
894.00(W)/4-2249
DEPARTLENT OF STATE
ACUUISITION AND DISTHIBUTION
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
DIVISION
APR 2 5 1949
None
Aprah
tion
1AD
Rot
FILE
SECRETPILE
PERMANENT PECORD COPY
CY MUS: SE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
ROACTION TAKEN

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of the Army Wash DC for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C 69432
JOINT WEEKA 29
22 Apr 49
SubJect is Joint Army-Air WEEKA 29.
Japan:
Political: (A) Important changes or contemplated
changes in government:
Budget passed Lower House unchanged 16th April,
despite spirited protests from opposition, spearheaded by
Communists, which was overwhelmed by governments majority,
231 to 113. House of Councillors passed budget without
incident 20th April. Lower House voted 19th April to dis-
cipline 1 Communist member for remarks made just before
budget passage. Lower House Steering Committee approved
extension of session until l6th May. Agenda will include
57 bi1ls already submitted, of which 30 have passed; 121
already approved by Cabinet, but not yet submitted and addi-
tional 40 not yet approved by Cabinet. Election of Suzuki
Mosaburo, Left Wing Leader, as Secretary-General of Social-
Democratic Party indicates veer toward left, even though
Katayama Tetsu remains as Partys Chairman. Third National
convention of powerful Japan farmers union 22 April, first
in more than two years, likely to be marked by bitter struggle
between Left and Right Wing factions.
Economic: (A) Economic changes:
Currency issue steady arounó 307 billion yen. Rice
deliveries were 104.7 percent of national quota 10th April.
(C) Labor:
Koreans plan mass rally 25th April in
CM IN 18243
(22 /pr 49)
146
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1S4R O-811947

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69432
JOINT WEEKA 29
Page 2
Kobe commemorating first anniversary of school incident.
Communists holding preparatory meetings for May Day labor
celebrations.
Korea:
Political: (A) Important changes or contemplated
changes in government, domestic and foreign policies:
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 260, 16th Apri1 49 pertaining
President Rhees support of Great Korean Nationalist Party.
Comment: Apparently Rhee taking active interest
in party; Probably sees opportunity to further split
Democratic Nationalist Party. Rhees actions follow his
tactics of supporting some new parties to prevent them from
consolidating against him. Doubtful if he supports Great
Korean Nationalist Party policy.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 260, 16th April 49 pertaining Rhees
visit Che ju Island and statement that elections will be held
10th May.
Comment: Successful election 2 Cheju Island delegates
to National Assembly will complete 200-men assembly for
first time in republics existence. Apparently Rhee believes
rebel activity on island will be sufficiently controlled by
lOth May for elections. His appearance on Island may instill
confidence in natives, who traditionally oppose orders, edicts,
and proclamations from mainland.
(C) Reactions to important events: General
election local government officials North Korea reportedly
scheduled for 30th June.
Comment: General election for members provincial,
county, municipal Peoples Committees held 30th March 49;
Radio Pyongyang stated 99 percent eligible voters cast ballots,
all party candidates elected. Forthcoming election expected
to be publicized highly as Democratic expression of people.
CM IN 18243
(22 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 3
Nr:
C 68432
JOINT WEEKA 29
1-slate Communist party ticket almost certain to prevail.
Economic: (A) Proposed or actual economic changes
or reforms: Rerad USAFIK ZGPI 260, 16th Apr11 49 pertaining
increased power production.
Comment: United States and Korean efforts to im-
prove kilowatt productior. reflected in continued increase
power cutput. Minister Commerce and Industry, Louise Yim,
received large appropriation from National Assembly for
rehabilitation Yongwol coal mine, but only slight increase
production resulted. Doubtful if power goal will be attained
near future, but recent power increase indicates serious sit-
uation will be alleviated.
Military: (C) Troop movements and concentrations,
incidents and operations:
Rerad USAFIK ZBBI 260, 16 Apr 49 pertain1ng
surveillance suspected Leftists.
Comment: Continued surveillance probably will be
effective in curbing Communist activities. New suspects pro-
bably will te added as interrogations continue. Believed
present list contains some duplications.
Rerad USAFICK ZGBI 260, 16th April 49 pertaining
decreased rebel activity South Korea.
Comment: Death of rebel leaders and increased
effieiency government forces may temporarily eliminate
rebel activity. However, rebels may intensify program of
terrorism and destruction because of improved foraging and
living conditions with approaching warm weather.
North Korean border constabualry unit located
Mission is interrogation
Haeju (3802-12542); Strength 53 man;
North Korean refugees caught attempting cross 38th parallel.
Comment: Units Counter Intelligence activities
are further development in North Korean system of rigid
travel controls; Will strengthen border security and assist
(22 Apr 49)
CM IN 18243
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 68432
JOINT WEEKA 29
Page
in discouraging migration North Koreans to South Korea.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 260, 16th April 49 pertaining 1o-
cation Third Battalion, First Regiment, First Division
Peoples Army Cheryong (3824-12538).
Comment: This information, plus March 49 reports
2 Artillery Battalions observed vicinity Chaeryong, indicates
further consolidation units 38th parallel area; Projects
poasibility of plans for combined arms training. Movement
Third Battalinn Cheryong regarded as part overall redis-
position Peoples Army Units from northern area.
Subversive: (A) Unrest in North Korea:
On lith February 49, middle school students North
Korean East Coast cities distributed handbills supporting
Republic Korea and advocating overthrow North Korean puppet
government. Police arrested undetermined number students.
Adverse criticism of police resulted.
Comment: Report unconfirmed but indicates dis-
satisfied elements North Korea becoming more bold, aggressive.
Previous report stated wide-spread demonstrations held
North Korea 12 December 48 celebrating United Nations endorse-
ment South Korean Government. Reports supplement long series
indicating North Koreans dissatisfied with conditions pre-
vailing under Communist regime. However, little evidence
available to support claims of widespread resistance; No
indications North Korean underground has arms, organization,
leadership necessary to overthrow present government.
Philippines:
Political: (B) Important Domestic speeches:
Occuaption president Jose P (middle initial) Laurel
and former Justice Claro M Recto continue to announce their
availability as presidential candidates on Nationalista
ticket.
CM IN 18243
(22 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194A O.811947

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
ELASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 68432
JOINT WEEKA 29
Page 5
(c) Reactions to important events: Letter to
press 1Oth April, reportedly from Huk Supremo Luis Tarue
refuted reports that Huks receiving outside aid, particularly
from USSR; Termed such' reports "wholesale lies"; Also stated
that arms and aid used by Quirino administration to "shoot
down peasants and destroy homes" were supplied by "American
Imperialist"
Military: (A) Changes or contemplated changes in
policy:
Reference proposed merger Police Constabulary (PC)
with national defence forces (NDF): In off-record conver-
sation 12th April former NDF Chief Staff, Major General
Jalandoni stated that Major General Castaneda seeking merger
for personal laurels only: That when he (Jalandon1) approach-
ed Castaneda with similar plan during his tenure as NDF
Chief Staff when Castaneda was PC Chief, latter steadfastly
refused consider such move. Jalandoni states he believes
no action reference merger will be taken until after elections
in November. Brigadier General Dugue, Deputy Chief Staff
NDF, is privately against merger, although he states merger
would advance himself and Castaneda 1 grade.
In press conference llth April, Brigadier General
Ramos, PC Chief, stated that attraction policy toward
dissiderts, not guilty overt unlawful acts, would be renewed.
Ramos stated his belief that Huk program could not be cur-
tailed for the next 10 years, but stressed that PC capable of
handling dissident situation. Remarks of Ramos, President
Quirino and other top officials 1ndicate they believe dis-
sident problem increasing. They expect rainy season will
be time of further dissident depredations
Philippine veterans groupa vexed over alleged
statement United States Secretary Royall to effect guerrilla
recognition program definitely closed. Guerrilla leaders
framing protest to be submitted to President Quirino with
request he transmit it personnally to President Truman.
CM IN 18243
(22 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICF 1948 O-811947

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 68432
JOINT WEEKA 29
Page 6
Colonel Manuel T, Filipino Guerrilla Veterans Legion
Commander, and sponsor of the block-Pamintuan Mission
presently in the United States, was incensed over story in
face of weekend message from biock that mission sudcessful
in pressing United States Congress into enactment Filipino
Veterans legislation
Continued repercussions this subject
anticipated.
MARBO:
Political: (A) Important change in domestic
policy:
Bill to abollsh superior court of Guam being pushed
for two thirds majority vote in order pass it over Governors
veto
Air: (Reported by FEAF):
Japan:
Gymnasium at Misawa Air Force Base was completely
destroyed by fire 15th Apri1 49.
Subversive: Communist Party using the curtailed
construction program and conseguent reduction personnel on
Misawa Air Force Base as propaganda, stating that reduction
in personnel is an indication of Amerieas fascism and a
refleetion of the real sttitude toward Japan.
Guam: At pressnt time there are no indications of
uprisings or racial dislurbances as result Farnsworth case.
Note:
260 is not identified in sMC.
ACTION:
INFO:
AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 18243
(22 Apr 49)
DTG: 220317z ejf/B
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICt 1948 O-811947

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.91)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION
MMUNICATIGNS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTKENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ACCURSITION AND DIBTRIBUTION
DIVISION
INCOMINGTELEGRAM
DISTHIAUTION BRANCH
SECRET
18
MAY 2 -1949
Rec'd May 2, 1949
Action:
OLI
2:00 a.m.
PROM:
Tolyo
XF
TO:
Secretary of State
O:
C 69642, April 9, 1949 ( Army Message)
JOTE ARMY AIR UEEKA 30
894.00(W)/4-2949
Action A: signed to
Action Taken
Nocid
of Action la27-19
Action Crrice S- bol/AD
I.  of Ofricer
Neuman
file
SECRI
10N 30
SEORET
工
工
PERMANENT RESORD COPY

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.88)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
0
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
US AF
N:
069642
WEEKA 30
29 Apr 49
Subjece is Jont Army-Air VEEka number 30.
Jape
Polilal:
Tmper tous chamges or wontemplated chenges in
g veravens. Cablnet tes approved 189 bills and semt 135 of
these to Dleh, Wsen as passed 36 and has 99 on agenda. Gov
e ament plens to sutmis all importans legisletion by 30th
Aprsa ea ng tame Por Diet do cleom up atl work by end of
Braa covering admivistrative retrenchment
progrem exrected vo arouse much opposition, but no serious
difficut res ansicipeved bacuuse or demoeracte-liberal major-
ity. Powerfum Japar tarmare mmnson definitely split into two
sepevate feetsons srter natsronal couventior ending 24tn April.
wist Kurdde Hisao. head of Lasor-Farmer Party. as head of
left wang ums Plcation conreronee Paotton and Nomiso Katsu
former mipisvec witnoue porurosre, Obairman of Right Wing
Unepensenoe Rstatlisomebt Leagua. Omo Banboku, Yormer
Seuretery-Guneral of Lumocpasle-Lrceral Party, sentenced to
0 0000
 ert ene eemese Mseuks Pormer vice-Minister
1 A 
deees n sotneeton wi th Showa
e.ko
Boto mer ea 
eo tave appealer to
Surrerey taene undergosng normal
out saaang on 25on
o mans leading
CM IN 19874
(30 AD 49)
138
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1940
U S GOVERNMENY PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.91)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
TNCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
Page
Labor unions have formed joint campaign committee to make
plans ror coming Mey Day celebrations. Committee will attempt
to unite Labor Front for rally. Sponsors estimate heavy
attendance in Tokyo.
Korea:
Political:
(A) Impertent changas a contemplated ohanges in
government: Rerao UsaFIk ZoB1 289, 23rd April 49 pertaining
proposed Untved Nations commisgion trip to Cheju Island,
South Cholla Prevince.
Counent: Tro arens on icinerary are principal
seenes oivil unrest south Korea. Commission not as aotive
in inspecting country as was 1948 vorporary commission. ob-
serving ccneilions in troubles provinces may inorease commission
insight inte intensit: rebel aesivity.
Rerad UsaFIa. 20B1 289, 23re April 49 pertaining to
appoinrmens 8-man courtstee to lnvestigate charge of Malfeasance
egainat Louise Yinm, Mlniste, Comweroe and Industry.
Conment: Apparonsly assewbly intends to push invest-
Lgasion: may leao tc Yims impeashmons. Doubtful ir Ministers
Priendship Mith Presteent Rhes wil proseet her positlon if
suffarient avidenee la aiseoveree by Investigating committee.
Rsacn  prta  events: Rerad ECA Mission
Borea, pombes 433 ap aad, pertatong peactlon President
Roee h  stetee o ermng United States withdrewal.
Miket ene pons evadent elthough reports
Ipoigeme me jc maay poople epperomvay suppors Rhee a statoment.
Posetble Rbee galnee sere suppore Prew Moderates and extrome
Rigutisbs shrougn statement.  nrcaneement wey centrlbute
soverd unarying people seuth Korea ers promoting Natlonalism.
Beenonde:
OM IN 29874
(30 AP0 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948. O.811947

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes or reto
Rerad USAFiK ZGB7 289, 23rd Apr11 49 pertaiuing assembly
pasaage emergency grain measure.
Comment: Assembly disregard for ECA aid agreement
provision that United States can stop food shipments if
inadeguate indigenous foodatuffs collected indicates positive
attitude of legislators that Uuited States will contimue aid
regardless of assembly action. Lack of planming and fore-
s ight by assembiymen may infliot hardehips on people through
high food prices, depleted stocks. Believed bills backers
probably can garver sufficient votes to override presidential
veto.
Mixitary:
(0) Troop movements and concentrations. incidents
and operations : Rerad USAFIK ZG B1 289. 23rd April 49 per-
taining arrest 8 memoers SouthKorean Labor Perty.
Comsent: Republics securiey forces meeting with
marked succese apprehending mportant perty officials.
Reduction number of sivil disturbances may be direct result
of gowernmeut drive to arres: party leaders.
Rerad USAF IK Z391 289, 23rd Apr11 49 referring to
unidentified Poples Army areillery uni* Namehonjom (3820-
1264) North Kcrea.
Commens: UnidentyFied Peoples Army unie with 7oo men.
8-76 millime ter guns engaged combat exercises Hae ju (3802-
12542) January 49. Uaidentified unit first diwision. with
13-76 m1112me ter guns. observee S1avona1 (3812-12544) 20th
February. Are llery sattalion participated combat exereises
Chaeryong (3824-12536) area 5th Marsh 49. Reports indicate
units first divis lon araillery vegiment nave moved from
Pyongyang (3901-12544) to 38 paralle1 areas. Surficiemt
evidence not evailable to determine whether move permanent
or for traiaing purposes.
Paratcipaticn artillery units in
combat exereises pro jects poss ibills combined arms teams being
CM IN 19874
(30 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1849
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
MING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
C 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
formed border areas.
Rerad USAFIK Z0BI 289, 23rd Apri1 49 pertain1mg 99n
erence political defense department officials Pyongyang (3901-
12544)。
Comaent: Discussion of methods for increasing effioi-
eney surveililance syy tem tends to substantiate reports of
growing umrest Nortn Korea. Comwumist officials probably
will attempt counteract disloyalty to puppet regime by
increased number surve illance personmel and harsh disciplimary
measures againsi: disloyel elemerts.
North Mcrean delegetion headed by Premier Kim Il Sung
returned Pyongyang (390l-12544) from Moscow 7th Apr1l; accomp-
anfed by TF Shtikow Soviet Ambassador North Koreaf Jarge
crowd welcomed delegaion Fyongyang Airfield. Kim announoed
consunmation economlc, culturai pact between North Korea,
USSR; praised Sowiet Únion; exoorted people to intensify
efforts to drive Tmited States troops from Korea.
Comment: en year pact provides for increased trade
between signatcries; arranges fubure meeting for strengthening
cultural, scientific sies; grante eccuomic aid, technical assist-
ance to North Korea. Promtses of Sowiet aid may result in
increased boldness North Koreans in demending withdrawal
United States Troops from Koree. Future military, political
strategy for Korea probably discussed Moscow Coaference
although not mentioned in pace
Philippines:
Polftical:
(A) Important chamges in domestio policies: Despite
daily depredations b- dissideuts, President Quirino, in
rewiewing one year of adminisfrasiom, categoricelly announced
peace and crder prcblem resolved. Asseptlon met with heated
refutations many querters, partloularly from Ceutral Luzon.
Quirino enmounced iuauguration of "Leafhets and not bullets"
CM IN 19874
(30 APr 49)
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICF·1948 O-B11947

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.93)
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
F
Nr:
0 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
0
Paa
campaign to attract the "Few remaining dissidents to the
governments side".
Source comment: Such a campaign, if carried out
without continued cons tabulary anti-Hukbalahap (Huk) operatioms
would he political suicide. Some observers believe this
reflects increas ing juvenility in Quirino approach to import-
ant domestic problems, pre judiced his reelection hapes.
Release of partial list pereons figuring in immigretion
guota rackes Jacluded 22 of 2f senators and 90 of 98 congress-
men, Senators, wleh few exeeptlons, claim no kmowledge of
their participation Public opinion demanding release "un-
cens pred" lrsts and binting thes originel list included
membere execut ve se pe rement. Suspevided Immigration Commissiemer
Engracio Fabre remains von-coma stal, priwately promises
further re ve lations "at appropr: ate time". Fabre, if exonerated,
may rue for co gress wader spouecrst ip widow late President
Quezon.
Meas ure preseated senate recestly would appropriate
10 million pescs (5 million Unitee States dollars for
es tablishment. melatenance ciwii defense organization for
research in, minimiains e  feeto asomio and bacteriological
warfare believed immitenf as jndlcated ty Atlantic Pact and
China situation.
Printens strLke sont aue: with Huk Supremo Luis Taruc
and Congress Labor Orgs rizat ons (CLo) Nacional Secretary
Alfredo B (mladle iuitiai) Ssslo Lauding strikers in press
for self assertiou and Tarue promieing eventual freedom from
"Serfdom"
One (FNu) M ile ccord iaa ng vi h CLo- Phiiippinbe
Jommunist party lecers, cheeking on CLo ei- peeisicn monetary
aid furalebed them y n ted s ta res Cro
Mlia
(A) Cheage in p Riop: Pslomels Pelagic Craz amd Clero
Lieardo, Commend Ieg Paallppire A r Foree and Phiaipoire Groued
Forces, respecti rely promoted o Brigadier Seneralt
CM IN 19874
(30 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
0811947

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
RYC OM:
Political:
Matsuko Seihc, present appointed Director Public Works Okinawan
ivil Acministration, seeking to save post in possible future
olections. Usually reliable informant reports that Matsuko
gaining loca! strength. Also reported 1f Matsuko eleoted ne
Will seek Hakanone Cenwa, Communist member of Okinawa assembly
and Chairwan of Democratio Allianoe, as his vioe-Director.
Democratic Alliance expected to actively support Matsuko.
In wayos aleotion Ycnabaru, Okinawa, Uehara Binahan defeated
Unshara Hangi by ma gin 189 votes; 2,818 out or 3,150 registored
voters cast ballota.
Comment: Such interest in eleotion is not aaticipated
in the event of seleotion of governing bodies for a large area.
Pocr oommunicaticns is primarily responsible for lack of
political interest beyond village boundaries.
Seccnd joint meeting demccratic alliance and sooialist
party heid at Naha. 22nd April; expeoted parties will potition
nil1tary governmont to abcjish 1948 1ncome tax end to establish
constitutional assewbly for purpose of electing governor and
aasembiy
Eccnomic:
(A) Econcmic eforms: Current taxaticn problem
continues maia tepie of concern among populase. Food conditions
n To Shiwe investigateo by wilitary government vha found
reporteo cenditicns oxaggerated
situation sume as other
seetiens; pecple  equested rellef cue to rige in prioos and
Lece or empjoyment due tc air toroe evacuatien in Fopruary.
MA HDO:
Ec c nc wjc
C1 IN 19874
(30 Apr 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENI PHINTING OIICI·1948 O.B11947

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
C 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
Page 7
(B) Foreign economic development: Chinese BT Mei
Ling raided by Guam Sustoms officials, large quanties tazable
merchandise seized. Crew members arrested for fraud and
1llegal entry unmanifested cargo. Second raid at Santa Rita,
Guam resulted en  eas suc Dosey suployres for elneggling.
Foregoing is part of new effort end smuggling many products
into quam.
Air: (reported by FEAF):
Okinawa:
Okinava relief and rehebilitetion foundation, incorp-
rated of Haweii suspected of ospionage. Communist organization
nopspaper obtaining detailed eccounts military civilian r.ssl
Bsiivities from civilians. Report from Miyako (24 degrees 46
minutes norsh 125 degraes 20 minutes east) indicates approximate-
ly 40 Chinese o Formosan fumilies settled on Irimote Island
(24 degrees 20 minutes con 123 dogrcos 50 mipates cast). some
as a cbsorves in vacinlty, but military
  k
Trlmoto in vie
Subversive:
Japan.
Field meintonanse building 15-E of 35on Motor Vehicle
Cguadron, Johneon Alr Force Bese, demeged by fire 22nd Apr11
194g. $5o to S75 dem go to building sstimated. Everything
deatroyed inelde offi e ircluding furniture, radio, office
records, end teahnicel ordere.
ause undetermined.
Inoieations sovtes sapi omege ring seeking unit
hoedouarters on suam.
Puch ae tivisy essociáted with nareotic
ring operating here
Mavy coere of situation.
OH IN 1987
(30 Apm 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
M'ESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 69642
JOINT WEEKA 30
Indication Philippine Congress Labor Organization
attempting infiltrate Guam, investigation undervay.
Naval intelligence reported 9oo sticks of dynamite
and 2000 electric caps stolen from naval communications
service between 2lst and 22nd April. All agencies Guam
ulerted.
Farnsworth trial postponed several days; however,
possibility racial trouble remains slight; situation calm.
2lst April Guam customs officials apprehended two
smugglers of Chinese Nationality, attempting to dispose
morchandise on island without proper customs proceesing.
Subversive:
B-29 type aircraft, number 486399 on routine flight
was fired upon by small arms fire of undetermined caliber
while approaching north Quam Air Force Base fer landing at
1500 and 1510 hours, 24th Apr11, approximately one and one
half miles northwest of airbase. Investigation continuing.
Projoctile was found in aircraft and is being analyzed to
determine caliber. Approximate area from which shot was fired
has been located and search being conducted for weapons and
any other information. No recommendations.
Miacellaneous:
Fight between colored airmen and marines started in the
"Alue Flame Beer Parlour" epproximately 2200 hours, 25th Apr1l,
junetion of routes one and seven. cauee unknown. One
Juamenlan policeman badly beaten and his gun taken. 13 Airmen
involved. "No indications of violence or overall disturbances.
Investigation initiated by cIC.
Note:
Filed 2913232.
Rec'd DA Crypto Center 2913182.
Rec'd s00 1325z.
ACTION:
ID
INFO: AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 19874
(30 Apr 49) DTG 290757z m1f/A
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENI PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.87)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
I HFTNENT OF STATB
DIVISION
DINTHIBUTION BRANCH
MAY 9 -1949
SECRET
3
Action: ORT
Rec'd May 9, 1949
Info
1 a.m.
C
FOR
PP
POS
DCR
Action Assigned tollndlu
hated
FROM:
TORSO
Action Taken
TO
Secvetary of State
NO
C-69806, Wny 6 (Aray Message)
Date of Action -6-22:49
AcCion Office Symbol/40
JOT NA  PROM F
394.00 (W)/5-649
SECI
JUN 301
R
工
工
FILES WITH

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
COMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo, Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
HQ USAF
Nr:
C 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
6 May 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Diet in short recess, no plenary sessions
expected until 6th May. Renewed rumors of entry of
Unukai Ken, titular president of democratic party and
head of pro-coalition faction, into Yoshida cabinet
some time after present session ends 16th May.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Normal month-end rise
brings currency to 315 billion yen 30th Apri1. Tax
collection program for fiscal year 1948-49 exceeds
budget goal by approximately 20 b1llion yen as of 30
April 49. Further collections may yield another 10
billion.
(C) Labor: Although more than one million
laborers took part in May Day celebrations throughtout
the nation there was no disorder whatever. Central
labor relaticen board hope ful of averting second round
of coal miners trike soheduled for 7th May, as miners
union seems inelined to accept mediation offers.
South Korea:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, and in domestic and foreign policies:
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
STATE
136
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
Page 2
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 309, 29th Apri1 49 pertaining
President Rhees attempt to revive his national sooiety
for acceleration Korean independence.
Comment: Presidents orders for government officials
to support political scheme probably will arouse wrath of
assemblymen; will possibly lead to assembly investigation.
Doubtful if great Korean youth corps can materially aid Rhees
federation since youth corps groups in constant dissension
and wish to regain former influences. Rhees political machine
has partially disintegrated despite his efforts to keep it
intact. President probably realizes present status of his
supporting parties; apparently making early concentrated
effort to remedy situation.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 309, 29th April 49 pertaining Rhees
return of local administration bill to assembly.
Comment: Bill becoming political football with Rhee
outmaneuvering assembly. President politically astute in
continuing to return bill to assembly requesting slight
modification without actually vetoing measure. Rhee may
follow similar procedure with future objectionable bills,
thus achieving veto benefits without publicly committing
himself. Laws implementation probably would seriously impair
his provincial machine.
Rerad USAFIK 200 1309, 29th April 49 pertaining report
that South Korean government officials will ask US troops to
remain Korea and request increase US arms and equipment,
Comment: President Rhee possibly behind-scene director
of plans; he has been extremely reluotant in past for US troops
to withdraw. Threat to publicly request retention US troops
possibly cculd be used as bargaining agent in US-Korean nego-
tiations for additional military equipment. Considering Rhees
past actions, he is adept at driving hard bargain to gain de-
sires. Despite President"s 18th April public announcement
that republics armed forces reaching point of securing nations
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194B O.811947

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: C 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
Page 3
integrity, Rhee fully capable reversing publio stand on
issue. Rhee's failure to support withdrawal could result
in embarrassing complications. Whether Rhee publioly ap-
proves or disapproves withdrawal, he probably will acouse'
US of abandoning republic to Communists if his regime suf-
fers military or political reversals.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI309, 29 April 49 pertaining launoh-
ing student National Defense Corps on national basis.
Comment: semi-military training of all two hundred
thousand South Korean middle school students will provide
republic with larbe reserve manpower trained in basic mil-
Itary subjects with groundwork laid for future intensive
training.
North Korea:
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes or reforms:
Rerad USAFIK ZGB 309, 29 April 49 which refers North Korean
premiers speech on cultural and econcm1c pact with USSR.
Comment: Culltural, econemic pact, signed Mosoow
17 March, highly publicized through Soviet and North Korean
propaganda media. Soviets apparently attempting to create
impression of aid program similar US program South Korea.
Credit of 2l2 million mubles constitutes minor economic aid
compared to monetary assistance received South Korea. North
Koreans probably will be taxed heavily for repayment obli-
gations. Reports of inoreased number Soviet technicians,
advisers sent North Korea indicated Soviets attempting im-
prove economy by strict control of nationalized industry
with minimum drain cn USSR. Culltural economie pact ratified
by North Kerean presidium 27th April.
Military:
(B) Major changes in conmand, organization, eguip-
ment and strength:
Rerad USAFIK ZGPÍ309, 29th April 49
OM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22--2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICAFIONS OFFICE
Nr: 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
Page
referring North Korean request for Soviet military support
to equip 60,000 regular troops and 80,000 reserves.
Comment: Report unconfirmed and predication of
request on South Korean attempts to overthrow North Korean
government by attacks 38th parallel appears unsound. Current
strength peoples army estimated 60-64 thousand. Above report
vague as to whether materiel desired to fill current equipment
shortages peoples army or for equipping additional force 60
thousand regular troops. Possible that current strength peoples
army less than 60 thousand and equipment desired to raise
strength to this figure; previous report stated strength pegged
at 50 thousand troops and suggested that troops in exoess this
Figure composed reserve force. Civilian organizations known
as self guards possibly to be incorporated into reserve. 
Statement that peoples army will join Soviet bloo in event
war indicated Korean-USSR military alliance under considera- L
tion.
(C) Troop movements, concentrations, incidents and
operations: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 309, 29th Apr11 49 which refers
to desertions North Korean Armed Forces.
Comment: Total llO officers, enlisted men have de-
serted North Korean Armed Forces since 15 May 48. Predominant
reasons stated for desertions were dissatisfaction with Com-
munist policy and regulations governing peoples army.
Soviet hospitel established Chorwon (3814-12712) North
Korea since official termination Soviet occupation; commanded
by Major; Soviet staff consists 5 doctors and 5 nurses.
Comment: Report received Jan 49 stated 1 or 2iSov1et
doctors or nurses assigned cach provincial, county, city hos-
pital North Korea; claimed medical personnel would remain North
Korea indefinitely. Limited Soviet medical assistance appears
logical in view program of providing technical, economic and
cultural aid North Korea.
Philippines:
Political:
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
Page 5
(A) Important changes or contemplated changem in
government: In decision 28th April 49, house investigating
committee probing validity impeachment charges against
President Quirino, declared proceédings out of order because
charges lacked "factual and legal basis."
Source Comment: This will force Avelino followers
to bring case before house for floor debate. Pro-Avelino
grcup regards committees action "Greatest whitewash of year."
Military:
(C) Incidents: Rerad Amembassy Manila number 259,
30 April 49 referring to ambushing of Mrs Quezon and party.
Subsequent reports list following casualties: Killed were
Mrs Aurora Quezon, Miss Aurora Quezon (infant) and Philip
Buenogmino III, wife, daughter and son-in-law respectively
of late President Manuel Luis Quezon; Mayor Ponciano Barnado,
Quezon City; Captain Primitivo San Agustin, Deputy Chief MIS,
HNDF; 2 other Philippine notable; 3 Philippine Lieutenants;
and 2 EM. Wounded included former HNDF Chief Staff, Major
General Rafael Jalandoni. No known casualties to dissfdents.
Party had secured assurance from constabulary provinoial
headquartera Nueva Ecija that no known danger existed along
road where ambush occurred.
News of Mrs Quezon's murder stunned pòpulace; will
furnish additional publicity ammunition to critics Quirino
administration. Quirino reaction not yet public but will
probably be carefully worded and reassuring in manner. Un-
ofricial release indicated Quirino will claim ambushers not
Huks. Anticipated that Huks will issue press release deny-
ing participartion. Repercussions just beginning; tempers
running high among government officials and private citizens.
Movement underway to demand government instituted total war
against dissidents. Huk situation worsening; astivity during
week confined to scattered raids, ambushes Pampanga, Bulacan,
Nueva Ecija.
RYCOM:
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: 69806
JOINT WERKA 31
Political:
(B) Important domestic speeches and reaotion thereto:
Joint meetings of 3 political parties Okinawa held lst Mey
Ernie Pyle Theater, Caha. Attendance 2500. Principal speak-
ers were Nakasone Genwa and Kuwae Choko of Demooratic Allianoe,
Senaga Kamejiro and Arakaki Kokichi of peoples party, Ogimi
Chotoku and Wahaneshima Shine1 of Socialist Party. All spoke
on election of governor and assembly by people, adoption con-
stitution, abolition inoome tax for 1948, and methods increase
amount food distributed. Posters distributed throughout Okin-
awa announcing this and other meetings to be held 2nd May in
Itoman, 4th May in Ishikawa, and 6th May in Nago. Inamine
Ichiro, vice president: League of Okinawans in Japan, departed
for inspection southern Ryukyus 29th April.
Air: (Reported by FEAF):
Philippines:
19th April 1949 Filipino civilians believed from
Mabalacat, Pampanga, Pi discovered vicinity radio range
station Clark Air Force Base. Military police were dis-
patched to area. Several Filipinos hid in tall grass sur-
rounding area range station buildings. Military police fired
several bursts harrassing fire, attempting to frighten Fili-
pinos from hiding. At approximately 1900 hours, 19th April
1949 small arms fire dirocted towards radio range station
buiidings. Firing allegedly by Mabalacat police. Several
shots hit roofs of bu!ldings.
Clark Air Force Base informer stated labor and Marine
Battalion is secret mllitary organization within accredited
international labor and marine union of Philippines (ILMUP).
Salazar, Jacinto L (Filipino) 1s listed as president of ILMUP,
alsc listed as Commanding Officer with rank of Colonel in
labor and marine battalion. The ILMUP memberahip card is
pink, while labor and marine battalion "oredential" is light
blue in color. Secretury of ILMUP is reportedly driving force
behind labor and marine battalion; Seoretary admits close
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
Page 7
affiliation with Huks and has often threatened battalion
members with retribution from Huks if they do not stay in
line with battaliins policies.
Air Force officers this command reported possible
submarine sighting Tuesday 26th April 1949 in San Pedro Bay
near Tacloban Island. Informants, one with 4 years active
naval service, reported that their attention was drawm to
moving object described as cylindrical about 4 feet tall and
wake caused by same object. Harbor visability unlimited.
Tho wake was kept in sight approximately 15 minutes at which
time night fell and wake disappeared into darkness. Wake
described on course approximately 300 degrees and 12 to 20
feet in length, estimated speed 20 knots. Object and wake
did not deviate or porpoise while on course. Lights from small
off shore native boats possibly fishing craft appeared to
converge at polnt where wake was last observed. This is
first reliable info on possible submarine sighting that this
command has received. Previous reports were Filipino obser-
vations by unreliable persons and no definite confirmations
were ever recelved.
Decisicn made to dump at sea remaining 30,000 bombs,
mostly 500 and 1,C00 pound sizes, at Batangas. Several
factors influenced decision; principal one being hostility
local population, including officials, to further demilitari-
zation operations.
It is groposed to cancel contract with John Lo Trading
Company offeetive 15 May 1949.
Ammuniltion movement to permanent storage in tunnel
Corregidor progressing sicwly. The last 6oo tons from Roserio
Depot is et Sa Ferunando, La Union. avaiting water transport
by PNF.
Nerth Korea
Approximately 25 YAK oypo aireraft and 2 IL-2 type
aireraft observed Picently at Pyongyang Airfield (39 O2N-125 04E
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U 5 GOVIRNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: 69806
JOINT WEEKA 31
Pago 8
These aircraft bore insignia of a blue circle with white
field and contained a red star. These airoraft reported-
ly are assigned North Korean Air Force as fighter airoraft.
Approximately 50 North Korean peoples army troops
and no Soviet troops were observed on field. Five tank
trucks observed.
NOTE:
Time filed 060225z
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center 060847z
Time rec'd Sc0 060953Z.
NOTE: 309 1: CM IN 19772 (30 Apx) ID
ACTION: ID
INFO:
AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 1195
(6 May 49) DTG 060225% vk/D
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 C.B11947

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AOQUISITION ANDDBUNNG TELEGRAM
DIVISION
DISTHIBUTION BRANCH
3
MAY 1 6 1949
SECRET
Action:
OLI
Enfo:
E
Rec'd May 16, 1949
P
1 a.m.
FE
POS
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C-50046, May 14 (Army Message)
894.00(W)/5-1449
JOINT WEEKA 32 frOm CINCFE
ction Assigned to
Zotea
Action Taken
Date of Action.
6-27-49
Action Office Symbol/AD
Direction to DC/R 
JUN 8010
SECRET
HH

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of the Army Wash DC for CSGID
Info:
Dept of Air Porce
Nr:
C 50046
JOINT WEEKA 32
14 May 49
SubJect 1s JOINT Army-Air WPEKA Number 32.
Japan: Poiitical:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Since bills covering part of administrative
retrenchment program involving large personnel cuts in
government have not yet been sent to Diet some further
extension of session, perhaps for five days, may become
necessary, although government will try to avoid it. Meeting
between leaders of Democratic-Liberal party and Inukai faction
of Democrats on 9 May indicates increasing possibility of
latter group joining government forces. Extensive political
realignment predicted after session ends. New political
council, formed by Peoples Cooperat:ive party and oliher small
groups, now has 33 Lower House seats, and may seek union
with anti-coalition faction of Democrats.
Economic:
(C) Labor: Regional groups of coal miners striking,
with national coal miners strike threatened for 14 and 15
May.
South Korea: Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, domestic and foreign policies: Rerad USAFIk ZGBI
329, 7 May 49 pertaining Chang Taik Sangs candidancy for
National Assembly from Che ju Island.
Comment:
Chang apparently lesperate secure Assenbly
CM IN 2891
(15 May 49)
133
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICI: 1948 O.811947

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIRIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50046
Page 2
seat. Law stipulating provincial residency for candidates
probably would eliminate indiscriminate electioneering by
ambitious politicians.
Rerad. USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 pertaining Rhees
return from good will trip southern provinces.
Comment: Apparently President attempting increase
his popularity with people in strife torn localities. Re-
ports indicate government officials actually attempted to
discover true state conditions and corrective measures may
be initiated.
President Rhee stated 7th May he "wants United States
to sit down immediately and state its pclicies and plans, in
respect to Koreas immediate future".
Comment: Appears Rhee attempting force United States
publicly commit itself in regard Korean policy. Although no
motive advanced for statement, possible Rhee not satisfied
with United States-Korean negotiations in regard arriving
at mutually satisfactory date for withdrawal United States
troops from Korea.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 pertaining President
Rhees rightist society advocating delay in withdrawal United
States troops.
Comment: Possible President instigating plot to cause
people to demand retention United States troops. Then, under
guise of heeding peoples wishes, Rhee may retract 18th April
statement that "Republics armed forces are approaching point
of securing nations integrity", and request retention United
States troops.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 pertaining to border
inc1dents near Kaesong (3758-12634).
Comment: Important reasons possibly underlying inci-
dents merit close scrutiny. No indication can yet be found
CM IN 2891
(15 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVFRNMENT PRINTING OFFICI· 1948 O.811947

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50046
Page 3
that incidents were inspired by persons or agencies within
South Korea which might wish to foster unrest as an argument
for retention of United States forces here, but investigation
is continuing, especially in Kaesong area. No incidents can
yet be found where South Korean forces crossed into North
Korea to start an incident but this possibility 1s by no means
ruled out.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 pertaining government
suspension of Seoul newspaper.
Comment: Suspension leading south Korean newspaper
Indication that Korean Republic has not fully grasped derio-
cratic precepts free press. Tactics similar strong-arm
methods characteristic of totalitarian states. Constitutional
guarantee freedom of press ineffective since stringent restrie-
tions allowed by law. Freedom of speech, assembly, and associa-
tion are threatneed if flaunting of citizens rights continue.
Military:
(C) Troop movements and concentration, indicents and
operations: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 pertaining rumor
that South Korea Government officials plan invasion North Korea.
Comment: Although information concerning invasion
North Korea unconfirmed, some South Korean officials possibly
feel their terms of office will be limited should United
States tactical forces be withdrawn.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 pertaining defection
elements Eighth Korean Army Regiment to North Korea.
Comment: Korean Army plans reconstitute Eighth
Regiment; move it from border station; replace it with Seventh
Regiment.
North Korea:
CM IN 2891
(15 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIC1: 1948 O.811947

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50046
Page 4
Military:
(B) Major changes in command, organization, equipment
and strength: Rehabilitation North Korean Peoples Army Arsenal
at Kan-R1 (3910-12540) reportedly completed 21st March 49.
However, operation of plant not started as of 29th March.
Comment: Previous information stated anticipated com-
pletion date for arsenal 3oth Apr1l 49. During Soviet occupa-
tion N rth Korea, all munitions from USSR sent to arsenal where
they were processed for distribution Soviet units throughcut
North Korea. With departure Soviet occupation forces, there
is reason to believe installation has become possibly most
important supply point for Peoples Army.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 329, 7th May 49 which refers Soviet
military aid to North Korea.
Comment: This information significant since, if true,
it envisages considerably larger, speedier and appreciably
better equipped North Korean armed forces than exist at present.
However, dissemination such information possibly propaganda
designed to bolster North Korean home front morale and as
deterrent to South Korean military operations against Ncrth
Korea.
(C) Troop movements, concentrations, incidents and
operations: North Korean Aviation Society provides partially
trained aviation students for Peoples Army Air Force. Societys
strength approximately 178,O00, distributed throughout North
Korea. Personnel trained at five airfields including Pyongang
(3901-12544) and Hamhung(3954-12732). Subordinate agency of
the society provides advanced training for selected aviation
engineers at Hamhung. Two parachute jump towers Pyongyang
used for familiarization training during period 1st September
48 to 10th December 48 but no jumps from aircraft observed;
class of 302 students included 50 Peoples Army Air Force troops
and 50 from security forces.
Comment: Report is of low evaluation; reliable United
CM IN 2891
(15 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50046
Page 5
States observers in Pyongyang during period concerned observed
no parachute training of North Korean troops. However, training
possibly being conducted now. Doubtful aviation society fur-
nishes technical training of much value for prospective Air
Force personnel. Main purpose organization appears stimulate
interest in aviation, bring training program up to date.
Philippines:
Political:
(B) Important domestic speeches: Liberal Party
divided into two factions, pro-Avelino and pro-Quirino
supporters. Each faction attempting expel the other from
Liberal Party. Quirino planning to run Defense Secretary
Ruperto Kangleon, Interior Secretary Sotero Baluyut, Public
Works Secretary Ricardo Nepomuceno and Health Secretary
Antonio Villaramo on Quirino ticket in November 49 elections.
Action Senate President Mariano Jesus Cuenco probably will
be Juirinos running mate. Rumored that United Nations delegate
Carlos P Romulo will be drafted by pro-Avelino wing as. either
presidential or v'ice presidential candidate.
In address at ceremonies held on Philippine Air Force
Day, 2nd May, Quirino advocated 1nauguration of Pacific Union
and warned that "To aspire to defend our country with our own
strength is futile". Quirino announced he would recommend
Congress pass legislation creating armed force of 300,000 men.
(C) Reactions to important events: Hukbalahap (Huk)
leader Luis Tarue, reportedly issued statements to press 29th
April concerning uezon ambush. Possibility exists that
these releases were composed jointly by Congress of Labor
Organizations vice-president, Cipriano Cid, and the executive
secretary Phillipne Communist Party, Mariano Balgos.
Comment: Speculation as to whereabouts of Tarue
continues, He went into hiding 15th August 48, when Philippine
Constabulary opened all out offensive against Huks. Subsequent-
ly, Tarue reported deceased or located in various provinces
CM IN 2891
(15 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFLED:
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50046
Page 6
Philippines and in Russia.
RYCOM:
Military:
(C) Operat1ons: RYCOM G2 with Military Government
Party and CIC personnel are enroute Yonaguni Jima aboard
United States destroyer to investigate Formosan Chinese in-
filtration Yaeyama Islands.
Military Government Public Safety Department in con-
junction with Okinawa civilian police impounded generators
and sound equipment held illegally by owners of Ernie Pyle
Theater, Naha. Takara Hajime, owner manager of theater and
Naha branch manager of Uruma Shimpo newspaper was arrested
and charged with illegally possessing and receiving stolen
property. Military Government and police also impounded
generators and other equipment held illegally by Uruma Shimpo
newspaper company. Ikeniyagusuku She1, editor in chief of
Uruma Shimpo, member of Standing Committee Peoples Party,known
Communist sympathizer and personel friend of Inamine Ichiro,
vice-president of Okinawan League in Japan, wes arrested and
charged with illegal possession and receiving stolen United
States propeety. Senaga Kame jiro, president of Uruma Shimpo,
leader of Peoples Party, and member of Okinawa Assembly will
also be arrested on same charges upon returning Naha. Ryukyuan
property custodian impounded all equipment of Urume Shimpo
pending an inventory.
Inamine Ichiro, vice president Okinawan League, departed
Miyako for inspection tour of Yaeyama 9th May.
Air: (reported by FEAF):
Japan:
Fire in motor pool tire battery shop Misawa Air Force
Base damaged roof and part interior structure. Damage estimated
$3,000.
CM IN 2891
(15 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50046
Page 7
Korea:
Four ow evaluatlon reports received recently dealing
with North Korean Army Air Regiment at Pyongyanghai Field
indicate presence of 13 to 32 oosolescent aircraft and from
30 to 70 personnel including Ruasian instructors and approx-
1mately 23 additional trainers. As pilots become proficient
and air regiment takes shape USSR reported contemplating ship-
ment bombers and fighters to North Korea. With this accomplished
activation bases at Chinnampo Sinui Ju, Hamhumg, Haeje, Oagim-Ni
and augmentatf.on regiment to air brigade of 156o personnel
anticipated by 1st October 49.
Comment: Although this coes not constitute formidable
air force as stands, it definitely outclasses South Korean
air arm. Higher aircraft count, condition aircraft, and
presence Soviet lnstructors probsble. Aireraft believed
Soviet trainers, old Japanese fighters end one United States
l1aison type defected. Pre ent personnel strength estimated
800. Inerease to 156r pr1or October 19 9 fessible in view
number aviation groups engages ground training. Soviet re-
lease bomber and fighter aicerat North Korea unlikely near
future due to deficit of tralning and efricienty, quite
probable within 12 menth. Base: on On-Jong-Ni (Chinnampo),
Sinue Ju, and Hanhung in good condition. Hae ju and Mirim-Ni
both sod. A  cun bandle B-25 sype but not much heavier.
Phil1ppires:
Captain Sofilo Doce sena suspended indefinite ly from
Philippine sir Fopece to le ding two trainers on "buzzing"
operation over Clerk Air ocee Base 23re April. Formal
verbel agreement exlsted pet eon Commant:ng Cfficer Philippine
Air Force and Comnanding Jomerat 18th Pighter Wing whereby
each would use all means so pre vent such incidents. Oecur-
ence benefielal taannven as Stn Ving subjeeted to futl alert
Ma jor Lula Vi le Reel, mmnsstant to Secretary National
Defense, states paticna de  onne strasegy based on premise
CM 1N 2891
(2Na 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 8
Nr:
0 50046
pr: ippines vil! have to shouider own defense burden. Present
p ans are to create ground force sufficiently strong to quell
interna uprising and a fighter wing to repel air attacks.
vi a Real ataces he foresaw increased activities by dissident
alements whioh may rise to tempe of internal uprising.
Phi ippine Air Force ce lebrated first Air Force Day
2nd May at Basa Fieid, Floride B anca, with baccalaureate
sevvioes for 27 graduating avlation cadets and student
ofteer3.
Tweny piames rom Prilippine Air Lines, Philippine
Air Forse, and Unlted States Air Force thoroughiy combed
Lamon Bay, amarines Force Quezon Proviace, Laguana, Rizal,
he s ands  A acas, Ea csin, caba ete, to the Poliilio and
Ja agua grouos 1or misaing c 47 Pn1 ippine airliner P1-0 98.
Air rat was ast beari from 7th May 161ó nours 25 minutes
Nine
af cer depart ure from Pset Comarares Dorte Aarfiend.
passeegors aad rew ot (our abeerd.
73
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISIONF
URIAHIMENI ACTION COPY
COMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ACUUISITION AND DISIHIBUI.
DIVISION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DISTAIBUTION BRANCH
MAY 23 1949
SECRET
Rec'd May 23, 1949
2:00 a.m.
17
Actton:
OLI
Inf
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C 50184. May 20. 1949 ( Army Message)
894.00(W)/5-2049
Joint WEEKA ￥3#33
as pen code sun.
Action Assigned to
Date of Action -Le-27:49
Action Ofrice Sy.dul /AD
Hernan
Name of Officer
file
Directionto Du
SECRET FILE
10N 3010
DC R COT
CARDS C
P、
工
H
ANTRAL SILES WITH

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
SR
COMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENTOF
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAFHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
TO:
Dept of the Aemy Weeh DO for CsaID
Info:
USAF
Nr=
C 50184
VEEKA 33
20 May 49
Subject 1s OINT Aruy-Air WEEKA number 33.
Japan:
Political: (a) Important changes or contemplated
changes 1n government: Diet session, now extended until
23 Hay, has not yet considerod bills involving large per-
cornel cuts in connectlon wioh administrative retronchment
program. Bills vevisig current labor laws forced through
Lower House on l: May y gov rnments large majority. Some
cabinet reshuffle possiole a ter sesslon ends when edminis-
trative reorganization of Conmerce and Communication Ministries
takes place. Inukai faction of Demoeratic Party seen nearer
verger with Demoeratfc -Liber ls, while anti-coalition faction
cor inues make advances to now political couneil. with view
to Emalgamation. Impending political developments cause
Premier Yoshlda poetpone spenking tour acheduled for ?9 May.
Three major stock exchenges reopened 14 May, have been closed
since August 45.
Economi:: (A) Economic changee: Coal production
loss during irst 10-day per.od of May estinated at 2r0700
tors as zegult of worlk atoppuges. Outpit only 71.4 % of
quc ta for pe iod. Curpeney n cireulatlon 3o4 billion yen
as of l4 May. ieat a ad bar ey crops estimated near average
but lese then last yeae. Condition of shite potato crops
gereralls poor.
(C) Labor: Mation ccal mines renained idle
14 nd 1F Mey as 4300c) mine s of National Pederation of
Cosl Minsrs Union reu ed to go tc pite. Eiforts by the
Central iabor Re lstlon: Boar! to settle this dispute railed
CI IN 4219
(20 May 49)
138
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194B O-811947

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.95)
D
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
N2:
C 50184
WEEKA 33
when Coal Operators League agreed to unions demand or
vage increese 1f mine efficiency was raised 15%. No
ment yet reached.
South Korea:
Political: (A) Important changes or contemplated
changes in govermaen, domestic and foreign policies:
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 35?, 13 May 49 pertaining contemplated
aid requests to Unitel Stat:s, by Rhee-led all-Korean
Federation of Patrioti: Org nizations.
Commens: Progident Rhee anc followers apparently
exploited nationa holldey y initiating wel? planned scheme
to influence favorable public opinior on issuee designed
strengthen, protect adtnimis ration. Rhees tacit sanction
of requests may lond coneid rable support to scheme, and
Forewarn him of United Stat s and world opinion on issues
prior to possible offi ial equests ky Korean Government
on same matters. Al1 lssue: involvec appeer stemmed-direct-
ly from Governmencs executive branch. Federations request
that United Staten maiatain Koress security until Soviet
sroops vithdraw Horth Kores coineides with Rhees 7 February
49 speech before National A sembly when he stated "neutril
sources have nos confl cmed eports Sov let troops departed
North Kores.". Rhee ani Fed ration possibiy referring to
fect thas Unlted Vations Cc mission on Korea hes not verified
vithdreval Soviet forees, i noring fect tihst USsR hes not
aided Commissions efforts v rify wicrd avt.1.
Rered USaFIK GBI -52, 13 Mey 49 perteining 10 May
alection Che ju [sland.
Cominens: Chs ag Ta Ik Sang urable garner sufficient
votes fop Datione. Asm emoly seat. Election native sons
reemphasizes Chej na ives eluctance accept Korean Mainland
leaders. Doubt u: Che ags d  feat viil discourage him from
future attenpte regei sove nwent posislon. Election 2
candidases to Nat lona Aese bly compleses euthorized 2o0-man
sssembly first shme Rwoubll a history.
ON IN 4219
(20 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 14B O-B11947

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSMED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50184
WEEKA 33
Page3
Military: (a) Changes in policy: Rerad USA
ZGBI 352, 13 May 49 pertaining Defense Ministers direotive
authorizing deain ser tence for 38 parallel violatione by umme
cormanders.
Commert: Ri id enforcement direetive by Defense
Minister probabie; stould contribute to stability border
eituation. Directive eppazently designed restruin trigger-
happy Soutr Korean ccmmanders: severity of punishments
euthorised shotid prs:lude indiecreet actions which mignt
precipi ate North-Sor h war. Issuance of order suggests
Forean Republic offic isls pprehensive of combat capabilitiee
Armed Poree: ir event borier clashes lead to war.
(E) Najor  engss in Command, Crganizetion, Equip-
ment and Strenguh:  pr 3 USaFIX 2GBI 35a, 13 May 49 perta1ning
cissolusior Chiri Sar Fask Force.
Comer: Al -rently Korean Army believes Task
Force in s comploted ? nsics neutralizing Rebel activities
easten hal: Scnth Ci le Frovince. Estimated only 4o active
Rebele of crigine.1 3: pere in: civided into small groups
4 to lo mer disperss scuthern prcvirces Korean mainland.
Eeey of Relel. Chiefts :n Kim Chi Ewei, former lieutenant
Kcrean Cons abtlsry. nientified by associetes, wife. Dis-
Feiving Tesk Force :  ssrmit reture unis to parant organ-
Sxationr Sc ircenei: od. ts saniag, interrupted by Dhiri Sin
operation.
Norpth Koree:
i jor changss in Conmand, Organization
Equipoont snd S reng a
Fered A513 20: 352, 13 May 49,
perteining pepceted  ans ror people: Arry espansion, incor-
poretio Ke earn serne w th Chineus Corkunist Forces.
Coamere: 2r stio able hesker present logistical
e cetus Jorth Kceea w d (e rmat such ex tes ive increase in
wtrength. Vhile qui Jilsly some Kereano releesed from
nty vish Chinene Cor unis Porees being Aneorporated in
CV IN 4219
(20 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFTED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50184
WEEKA 33
page4
Peoples Army, North Korean authorities may be exploiting
stories of Peoples Army expansion for possible adverse
on South Korean morale
Possibility that above report
criginated by South Kerean officials as pert of argument
Cor recention United States troops should not be overlooked.
(Se0 CXNCFE WEEKA C 50046, 13 May 49).
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 352, 1? May 49 pertaining plans
"or exosnsion Independent Mixed Brigade to divisfon.
Comment: Previous unconfirmed reports stated
independent Mixed Brigade redesignated 4 Division. Expansion
Brigace to divieion slze guite probable, particularly if
above information concernirg incorporation Koreans from
Chineee Conmunist Forees is accurate. Inflx such Korean
veterars would consideribly ueprove potential combet efficiency
present orgemizstion.
(C) Troop movemer us and concentrations, incidents
and opcratione: Soviet Gue rilla Lieison Office established
Chongj n (4146-1 949) 1ate 1948 now dispatches Soviet guerrilla
iectic apecislis ts ts various operarlons centere including
Ewecher. (3805-127:0), Inje 3804-12810), and Yanggu (3806-
12800) Approximetel: 300 phese specialisss in civilien
clothirs arrived Cher cn ( J14-12712) 5 Pebruary 49: ess1gned
areae elong 38 ps rell..
Coument: These as: Siret reoorte peceived concerning
pessibls establishmen: Sovi t Guerrilla Linison Ofrice
Chongjis. Tpaining  orrr as in mountainoue &reae neer 38
paralicl, pxior to esy Se th Kopea logteel. Doubtful
too Se jet adviseve artded 'or sueh work.
Phi.ippines:
Political:
 I pportens c vange or contempleted
tengee in governuent Lie ral Farty Avo ino Wing) bs ld
convent lon t? May. Po or E mase res Lden: Jove Avelino
somira ed presidentia. can? de se viet. Sena cor Vincente
rro  runan .
Perty pie trorp te be pronulgated
(0 May 49)
CM IN 1219
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194B O-811947

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASSINED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr=
C 50184
EEKA 33
Page5
aoon, will include rencuncing wasteful extravagance of
present (Quirino) administration, withstrong appeal to
labor class.
In Quirino f ction there are indications acting
Senate President Marino Jenus Cuenco will run for vice
President on Quirino ;icket.
Source commet: Quirino being taken to task by
both miaority and Ave no roup for elleged waste of peoples
money, failure to bal ce Mitionel Budget with resultant
A ficit, end failure  pese and order program. President
 esdily losing groun! in re-election maneuverings, but
m jor money interesty still becking him.
(C) Rsactious tc Lmportant events: Hukbelahap
uk) reids continue, lespi ce Philipplne Constabulery (Pc)
o position. To ds te, c inilications that dissidents moving
 proximities of. Unlc St tes Army Installations. Continued Huk
e., tiviey undermining
publ ic confidnce in PC and local
plice forces.
Sentiment g ing mone ater? officers, Headquarters
 tiona). Defense Pore  (E ), regerling the "deploxable
I vishnees" of Dh ef
St f, Ms. jor General Mariano Castaneda.
.staneda assigned 6
ilippine Army vehicles and 5 horses.
E epeat 3ooo psaoo
s00  lited Stewse dollars) refurnishing
7 fice upen succeedin
Gensl elanaoni. Resentment has
rsulted froa Castane s ls sge expenaltures from limited
M.tional Defense P'ere budt.
Souce Come: ustanede le alwaye been Beau
Boummel of  DF nd
 etofore ts ilitary acumen has
p oven vorsn priee.
vevee. Wth Wasional Defense Secretary
Ruperto Kengleon co: E fep opportumlty ouat him, guiet
i wes bigation witl, vt tor urd his polief may soon be initiated
RYC.M:
Politiea. (o) Rea :tione to impostant events:
CI IN 4219
(e) may 49)
SECRET
DA SCC FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.95)
ING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OP THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONSOFPICE
Nr :
C 50184
WEEKA 33
PageG
Arrest of Senaga Kame jairo (President of Uruma Shimpo
Newspaper. leader Peoples Party and member Okinawe Aase
for illegal possession of end receiving stolen Uaited mta
ploperty has caused public epeculation as to reason for po
action. Political lesders reported reluctant speak in public
gince Senagas arrest.
Air: (Reported by FEAF):
Japan: At 0930, 1 Mey 49, officer in nose B-17
from 3rd Rescue Squadron briefly sighted object in water
1proximately lo inches diameter extending 3 to 4 feet out
βi water leaving wake in ce m sea. When plane turned to
i ke better look, he  ost s ght of object. There were two
pole shaped cbjects potruding from water 3 or 4 feet to
è ther side. At distt ace of epproxinately one mile from
ol ject thers were 5 fighings boets, one stetionary and four
doving towerd lend. Pcsition et time of sighting 4o degrees
58 minutes north-141 degrees 33 winutes es.st.
Nevys ccmmen : Sightipg now evaluated by ComnaVFE
ar doubtful submarine contact.
Subveraive: ix Blide lines supporting Adcc antennas
located behind Air De ense Control Center, Itazuke Air Force
B se on mound 2o feet above ground lsvel sovered recently.
Tro of sever antennas isco ered down when reoeiving set
feiled. Only denage aueed by ineident vwes to director
element of one entenm. Investigation undorway.
North Koree:
Recent repops ind leete existence of & North
Xrean Air Force.
Conanent: FE  nox eccepting exinsinse North Korean
A r Force coneisting  cme 3s Japanes figh tors and trainers,
S viet trainors end a proxinate y 8co personns.. Organization
 mmanded by Korean Colone! Wang Yon with headquartere
PJongyang. Bome 7o Konean iloss who say Vorld War 1I service
CN IN 4219
(e May 9)
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
15 JAN 1549
COPY NO.
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Fr=
0 50184
WEEKA 33
Page 7
with Chinese and Japanese Air Forces constitute flying
personnel. Extensive ground and glider training being
oerried out by North Korean Aviation -Society. Indications
parachute training Pyongyang. Some Koreans may be receiving
flight training in USSR.
Philippines:
The crashed C-47 PAL Airliner PIC-93 has been
roported as found off the coast of Perez on Alabat Island,
Philippima Islands. Teniative finding of the CAA is to
the effect that a mysterjous explosion in the tail section
oaused ths craeh. PaL cificlals have reserved the right
to inspecs all personal leggage of passengers to assure that
no Fireorms, explosives, cr ammunition are sarried aboerd
phane ix Future.
NOZE
USAFI: ZGET 352 13 1 IN 2643 (13 MY 49) ID
WEEKA C 50046  M N 2891  15 MaV 49) ID
ACON: ID
INFO
: AF, CLD, FAVY. ATE
OK  4219
(20 1ay 49) G:
200923z
fel/c
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE ACQUISITION AND DISTAIBUTION
DIVISION
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
MAY 2 3 1949
SECRET
Rec;d May 23, 1949
2:00 a.m.
78
Action: OLT
Into
E
P
FE
POS
FRON Poio S coul
DCP
TO:
Secretery Of State
NO:
SGBI 269. May 20. 1949 (Lrmy Message)
POTNT WEEKA 7B
894.00 (W)/5-2049
Action Assigned to 
Dale of Action L-27-49
Aion Orrice Sywbol_/02
JUN R01
DEGREI
DC/R
HH

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
OINOPE-Tokyo Japan
Dept of Army for Intelligenoe Division Wash DC
Nr
ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA 73
20 May 49
WEEKA Number 73, per1od 14 May to 21 May 49.
Current
1. President Rhee returned the Land Reform Bill,
which had been passed by the National Assembly on 27 April, to
the legislat1ve btdy suggesting a number of minor amendments,
purely technical in character. (B-2).
Comment: The President was consistent in character
in returning the Land Reform Bill, since he previously had
blocked the only other major piece of legislation, the local
Government reform bill, passed by the Assembly during its
extended session.
2. The snecial Executive Committee of Kim Koo's
Korean Independence Party held a 3-day meeting 1n Seoul.
Reports which have leaked from the conference indicate that the
party which has consistently sought North-South rapprochement
through joint meetings and compromise is now preparing to
abandon that theme and adopt a stricly nationalistic platform
in support of the present Government. (B-2)
3. First sentence for a pro-Japanese national traitor
was given in the trials which have been underway since 28
March. The defendant, an elderly, unimportant baron during
the Japanese regime, was sentenced to 2: vears imprisonment
and most of his real estate was attached by the Government.
4. Secul city police arrested Lee Moon Won and Cha1 Tai
Eyoo, National Assembly member who have been identified for
several months with the group of some 60 young, more progressive
members of the legislature, who have led anti-Government
movements in the Assembly. They were charged with hawing
attended a South Korean Labor Party meeting in March at which
time they promised to support certain Communist planks in-
cluding withdrawal of US troops from Korea, unification of
13
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
S GOVERNMINI PRINTING OFFICI 19AR .811947

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA 73
North and South, release of political prisoners, the holdir
of another general election and the establishment of a
supreme peoples committee in South Korea. (C-2)
Comment: Rumors in political circles infer thet the
president has been planning the arrest of several of his
Assembly critics on charges that they are Communist supporters.
A few arrests likely would have a salutory affect on the legis-
lators and would hasten the trend toward authoritarianism by
Rhee in his Government.
Military
1. Strength: Korean Army-71,O86, Korean Coast
Guard-5435, National Po11ce-50500.
2. A general order published by Korean Army Head-
quarters, redesignated all former brigades as divisions.
These divisions will have the same numerical designation as
did the brigades. No changes in T/o and E have been made. (B-1).
3. Major General Chai Byongiduk, former Chief of
Staff, Department of National Defense, assumed command of the
Korean Army on 13th May. The position of chief of staff, DND,
has been abolished and General Cha1 replaced Major General Lee
Ung Jun, who has reportedly resigned from his position as
Commanding General of the Army. (C-2)
4. During this period twelve parallel incidents
were reported. With one exception all were of a minor nature.
One clash which took place at Paekchon (934-1695), 1asted 2
days and involved some 200 men on each side. For details see
P/Rs 1116, 1117 and 1118, dated 16, 18 and 20 May. (C-3).
Mobilization potential:
1. The weekly ECA economic summary for the period
ending 14 May indicated that rice prices 1n Korea were con-
tinued their climb and were averaging more than 900 won per
small mal throughout the provinces, going as high as 1120 won
in Pusen.
Power production suffered a 5% drop during the period,
largely because of failure on the part of the Government to
make timely allocations to industry to keep pace with the
increased power potential.
At the same time it was reported that recommendations
had been made to the Korean Government that a coal-mining
development program be undertaken which would culminate in 1953.
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA 73
If successful, the plan would result in a sufficient
coal to meet most domestic power and industrial requir
Comment: Late press reports in Seoul indioated
that rice prices have gone beyond the lo00-won mark in that
city for the first time.
Subversive
Reports reflect a slight decrease in rebel activities.
Both rebel actions and police-army actions against rebels
remained scattered over the southern and eastern porticus of
South Korea. For details see P/R's 1116, 1117 and 1118, dated
16, 18 and 20 May.
Part 2-North Korea
Current
1. Radio Pyongyang promptly reported the desertion of
the flagship from South Korea on 12 May and told of the warm
welcome extended the deserter crew by the North Koreans. The
ship brought with it all its arms and equipment and the crew
pledged allegiance to the North Korean ex Government. (Radio
intercept).
2. Information received at this office on 18 May
reveals that the Soviet merchant ship "Narva" after unloading
an unknown cargo at Hungnam (1050-1910) was directed to pro-
ceed to Wonuan (1040-1830) and pick up a cargo of 2700 tons
of cement destined for Sakhalun. (B-2)
Comment: The cement probably is destined for the
reported alrfields constructed by the Soviets on Sakhalin.
In addition it has been Pumored that a land (possibly a
concrete road) transportation link between eastern Siberia and
the West Coast of Dakhalin is being construeted.
Military
1. Reported desertions from the North Korean Armed
Forces for the period 24 April through 14 May consisted of
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICF 1948 O.811947

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA 73
Page
2 Sergeants and 1 Private from the security foroes. (B-2).
Comment: Reasons for desertion were dialike of the
Soviet system in North Koran and the better treatment afforded
members of the North Korean Labor Party over non-members.
According to one of the deserters 60% of the security forces
are party members.
2. North Korean author1ties are reportedly showing
concern over the high percentage of anti-Communists serving
with the Peoples Army. To forstall any minifestation of
disloyalty by this personnel a large number of agents and
counter-intelligence personnel are being assigned from the
Ministry of Internal Affairs to the Peoples Army. (F-6).
In partial coroboration of the above renort a
deserter states that counter-intelligence within a Peoples
Army battalion is performed by a representative of the pol1-
tical defense department; normally a Captain.riIn turn, this
officer plants secret informants, selected enlisted men and
officers, throughout the unit. Expression of personal
opinion or criticism of the present regime is precluded through
fear that soldier may be conversing with one the these secret
informants. (F-6).
Comment: Surveillance as indicated above together
with the continued inculcation of Communist doctrine, strict
discipline, extra rations and special privileges are the
primary mediums through which the present Government main-
tains a firm hold on the officers and men of the Peoples Army.
For more details see P/R 1i17.
3. Several fragmentary reports state that the
uniforms of the soldiers in the Peoples Army are badly worn,
ragged, patched and generally in poor condition. (F-1).
A Peoples Army deserter attributes the poor present
condition of uniforms to the 1948 issue which consisted of
uniforms made from a quilted cloth manufactured in North
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15.JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : ZGBI 269
JOINT WEBKA 73
Page 5
Korea. In contrast the 1947 1ssue was made of cloth imported
from the UssR. Source further reports that according to
existing directives the Summer uniform is issued once a year,
the Winter uniform every 2 years, and shoes every 10 months.
Prescribed issue periods, however, are not closley adhered to.
(F-2).
Comment: A shipment of cloth did arrive from the USSR
sometime early 1n 1947 and by May of the same year both
Winter and Summer uniforms were issued. ·However, although
arriving from the USSR American observers at the time were
In complete agreement that the wool cloth used in the manu-
facture of the Winter uniforms was of German origin. In
addition the shoes issued at the time were of leather and,
like the cloth, of Germany manufacture.
First reports of a change over to a guilted or padded
material were received by this office in January 49 (see
P/R l028). Substitution of canvas and rubber shoes for the
more hardy leather footwear was reported in early November
49.
3. A Naval Academy is located at the former Japanese
Naval Base had been severely damaged by bombing in 1949, but
"ince April 48 repair and reconstruction of the buildings has
been in progress. The Naval Academy began to move to Najin
from Wonsan in July 48 and completed the move by 6 September.
The reported equipment of the academy is one 30 meter
warship, 4 transport boats 20-45 ton. and 3 patrol boats. The
terms of instruction is 3 years with graduates eligible to
become Naval Junior Lieutenants. (F-6).
Comment: The first indication of a Naval School in
Na jin was reported in WEEkA 52 while in WEEkA 60 a Naval
Academy was reported to be located in Pangjin (1280-2190).
ALUSNA comment: There is still no indication of the
transfer to Janin of the YMs type ships which were stationed
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 1948 O:11947

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : 2
ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA 73
Page 6
with the Coast Guard Staff School at Wonsan.
Mobilization Potential
1. The National Gunpowder Factory at Hungcam
(1050-1910) 1s presently operating at only 5/12 the capacity
due to lack of raw materials, and is apparently engaged in
manufacturing industrial explosives only. The daily pro-
duction 1s 27,000 sticks of dynamite of which an unknown
percentage is shipped to the USSR while the balance is used
for mining operations 1n North Korea. (F-6).
2. Munition warehouses, totaling 2l-story concrete
plastered wall-grey tile roof buildings each approximately
97 feet long and 33 feet wide, reportedly for the use of the
2nd Rifle Division, Peoples Army are under construction 700
yards south of the railway station in Nanam (1240-2150).
Scheduled complet1on date is August 49. (F-6).
Comment: This is the first report of munition
varehcuses being constructed in the locality. While this
report ties the warehouses to a specific Army unit the
nature of construction indicates a permanent ammunition dump
is in the making.
Psychclogical
Speeches by members of units of the South Korean Army
as well as the flagship which deserted to the north, and
reporting of the advance of the Communist Army in China pushed
all other propaganda into the background during the period.
The speeches of the deserters criticized the South Korean
Army, the Syngman Rhee Government, American Army advisors;
and called upon members of the South Korean security forces
to desert. Propaganda line of China pointed out that the
Communists were winning despite the aid and sympathy the
United States had given to the Nationalints. The South Korean
Labor Party has asked for a meeting with the North Korean
Labor Party to try to effect unification, and the meeting
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :2
ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA 73
Page 7
will be held in Pyongyang on 25 May 49.
NOTE:
Filed: 200700z.
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center: 2016362.
Time rec'd SCO:
:201712z.
ACTION:
ID
INFO :
AF, CAD. NAVY, PO, STATE
hb/D
CM IN 4330
(21 May 49)
DTG 200700Z
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SUPPLEMENTARY COPY
SEORET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
COMGENUSAFIK SeOul Korea
To:
Dept of Army for Intelligence Division Wash DC
ZGBI 269
JOINT WEEKA
73
.20 May 49.
Note change in- "from"-line.
NOTE: Supplementary copy of CM IN 4330 (21 May 49) ID
ACTION:
ID
INFO : AF, CAD, HAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 4394
(21 May 49)
LTG:
200700z
dvm/3
SUPPLEMENTARY COPY
137
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCONBERBTELEGRAM
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
ACUUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
9
DISTAIBUTION BRANCH
Action:
OLI MAY 2 71949
Info:
E
P
FROM:
Tokoyo
FE
POS
TO
Secretary of State
DCR
NO.
C-50331
May 27
JOINT WEEKA no 34
(Army Message)
894.00
action Assigred o
(W)/5-2749
Action Ofrice SyubolOLI-/A0
Orton
Name of ofricer..
hls
工
H

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CEJID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C-50331
JOINT WEEKA 34
7 May 49
Japan:
Political.
(A) Important changes or contemplated chenges in
government: Third and fourth extensions of session, third
for twc days and fourth for six days, will keep Diet open
intil Rist May. Fairly large agenda still remains, partic-
ularly in House of Concillors. As result of'fist fight in
lower house 19th Mey, one Democretic-Liberal suspended for
reven daye, one Communist for 3o deys. Similar disturbance
in Councillors in midnight session Rrd May caused by
efforts of opposition to delay passage of necessary legis-
lation.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency issue now stands
et ?ol bill1on yen as of 24th May after reaching low of 97
billion on the ?oth May. Third round of coal mine walkouts
drops coal production to 69.7 percent of quota for second
10 day period of May.
South Korea:
Political:
() Importent changes cr contemplated changes in
government: Rerad USaFIX ZGBI 69, 20th May 49 pertaining
return of Land Reform Bill to Nat onal Assembly.
CM IN 5709
(27 May 49)
171
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1945
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-50331
Page2
Comment: Appears president Rhee intends follow ppo
cedure he established with governmwent reform bill by return-
ing objectionable measures to National Assembly thus obtain-
ing veto benefits without exercising veto authority. Possible
Legialators will agein become enmeshedlin lenghty discussions
on measure, with other pertinent bills being neglected. Im-
plementation of bill wculd contribute to winning farmers  ver
o government and counteract North Korean propaganda agai..t
outh Korean land reform program.
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes: Rerad
USAFIK ZGBI ?69. poth May 49 pertaining rise in rice prices.
Comment: Grain shortages may be noted in cities
before completion summer grain collections. Assemblys failure
to implement rationing system and rigidly enforce grain collec-
tion program believed respons ible for price rise.United States
officials previously warned Korean Government high prices and.
Cood shortages would reault if collection indigenous foodstuffs
helted or impeded. Governments lack cf foresight may increase
inflation, cause hardahips for people Government possibly
vill request additional aid if food situation becomes critical.
Military:
(B) Major changes in commend: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 69.
Oth May 49 perteining abclishment position Chief of General
Staff and appointment ne Chief of Staff.
Comment: Aboliticn posision Chief of General Steif
vill enable Minister cf National Defense to confer directly
with armys Chief of Staff; permit reassignment excess ofricers
to field duty. Rumored rift between President Rhee end Major
General Chae Byong Duk apparently groundlees in view of Jatters
appointment as Chief of Suaff.
(c) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents and
CM IN 5709
(27 11ay 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVFRNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
vr:
0-50331
Page
uperations: Five Communists in Korean Navy attempted eeize
control navys yard mine sweeper "Tong Yong" looo hours
Plst May. Former Japanese YMS anchored Pusan Harbor when
one oficer, three enlisted men from nearby "Kang Kyung"
boerded vessel and were met by officer aboard "Tong Yong"
Engines "Tong Yong" started, vessel got underway. Navy
personnel ashore became suspicious, sent another vessel 1
pursuit. One Communist aboard the "Tong Yong" committed
auicide, other four vere captured. Vessel apprehended
before it could leave harbor.
Comrent: Apparently contemplated defection as well
planned scheme involving elenents "Tong Yong" and "Kang
Kyurg" Conmunists ruv beve infil orated Pusan Naval Base
in cons iderable ptrength, since "kang Kyung" normally based
Pusan and "Kang The",
which defected l th Mey, also based
there (see USArIK ZonI 35o. 13th May 49). "Tong Yong"
none port Inchon. Not revealed whether Communists captured
by loyul forces aboard "mong Yone" or by vessel sent in
pursuit. Attempted derection another example Communist
practice of having offacers of Republics Armed Forces in-
vestigete wholesale cefections.
North Koree:
Military:
(c) Troop movements end coucentrations, incidents
and operations: Revad US FIK 4GBI 69, 20th May 49 per-
tairing North Koreen authoritives coneern over high per-
centage anti-Communinte in Peoples a rmy.
Commens: Peoplec Army expansion believed currently
in progress, presents Mcrth Rorear regime vith inereased
security problems, Logicnl that inepeased surveillarce
vould be instituted,hadlo Pyongscne recently has beer
emphasizing governmerte decis ion proy ide additional bereaits
membere armed forcee and their dey ndents. This dec ieion
(27 ay 49)
CM IN 5709
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVFRNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
r:
C-50331
probably motivaced by desire to ameliorate hardships expew
lenced by armed forces, improve moreal, discourage disloyal
activities. Peoples Army members have been receiving speoiai
privileges; provision additional benefits should slightly
3trengthen authorities grip on loyalty of armed forces.
Since motivation desertions from armed forces appears primar!ly
olitical (see next paregraph), this action will not be c' a-
oletely efrective.
Rerad US. FIK ZGBI 69, 20th May 49 pertaining dese1-
sion from North Korean Armed Forces.
Comment: Analysis of reports indicates ll? officers
ind mon deserted armed forces during period 15th May 48 to
14th May 19. Reasons stated for desertions during past
several months primerily political. Although total number
known desertions ccmparatively small, fact that ll3 escaped
in spite of stringent security measures strongly indicate
aubstantiel cpposition to North Korean regime exists in
armeá forces.
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important clonges or contemplated changes in
governm nt: Current congressional session abruptly terminated
(senete, midnight, 18th May: house. 0ol8 hours, 19th May).
Presidential peuce apd oxcer discretionary fund slashed from
pesos 4 million (2 millior United States dollars) to pesos
1,500,000 (75o,000 United Stetes dc1lars). End congressional
session expected tcuch cif pre-election fever for presidontial
and congressional races in November. Avelino liberal group
held convention 1? Nay, started series campaign tours oth
Kay
Quirino liberal group to hold conventlon near future.
Much discord whether Jese Vulo, wealthy visayan, or Cebu
governor Manuel Cuenco will be Quirino running mete; Yulo
Favored. Father of Governor Cueneo senetor Mariano Jesus
(27 May 49)
CM IN 5709
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-50331
Page 5
Cuenco, acting senate president, will probably be offered
cermanent senate presidency to cement pro-Quirino foothold
In Vigayas. Quirino senatorial lineup not firm, anticipate
rill include eeveral cabinet members.
Top leftist and Communist party labor leaders who
Vill eeek election in November include Philippine Communist
party (PKP member Cioriano Cid, senate; PKP member and
congress labor organization (CLo) president Amado V Hernandez,
house; CLo Vice President Alfredo B Saulo, house; Philipoine
Government Eaployees Asscciation President Baltayar Cuyugan
Jenate: and PKp Vice President Guillermo Capadocla, house,
(0) Reactions to important evenss: Malacanan source
state, Queson ambueh investigation bringing to light false-
hoods in storiee by former Head uarters Nationel Defense Force
Chief of Staff Vujor General Rafeel Jalandoni and other sur-
vivore.
Militery:
(A) Changes or contempiated chenpes in policy:
Philippine Central Intelligence Agency scheduled to conmence
opevations lst July 49, under Colonel Augustin G Gabriel,
G-2 Headquarters National Defense Popces. Congrees recchmend d
pesos 300 200 (150,000 United States dol1ors) a11otment for
sperational neede.
Air: (Reported by PEas):
Philippines
Ma jor Bartolome Cabengbant, Deousy Adminatretor
Civ tl leronauties dministration pesigmad because or edminis-
traticn tendeney to make avie tion "political football". Thle
protest reeignatlon expected to be eagnel for mase retiremeat
bop technicai men in key CAn positaon
Pertiel parelysation
OH IN 5709
(27 nay 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.90)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
0-50331
Page 6
of domestic air servlee has resulted from strikes by 1500
hilippine air line employees. Strike called ae result
lemiroal CAA dlrector for union activities and non-com-
pliance by PAL management on agreement for minimum daily
vage of pesos 6.50.
Colonel Mariano C Reyee sworn in as new General
Panage, Nationel  irporte Corporation replacing Colonel
H Villcumor. Hie appointment taken es indication president
will not eupport efforts to diesolve NAc and tranefer func-
tlons o CAA
Temporery agreement has been reached between
Chima and Philippines permitting Philippine Aip Lines and
Chineso National Air Lines Corporation to make flights
Petwaen Manihe cnd Amoy
Cvic forbidden to fiy into Manila
vever nonthe ago when found PAL not permitted land at Amoy.
Rac lal dieturtance ceourred approxima tely 152o15 May
19 in Raimbov Case es egane
15 to ?0 colored airmen from
uta Atr Amaual eloa  vararon etteeked Four msrines. Two
merinen escaped wve drt gged to micdie or Paoor and man
reneled.
One bseptta lsed and one fiel Srom cree apparenbly
ssumred.
Comment, Tmn dens ta enother putbreak unrest ameng
a herad aarmen on wun sur te cerd to oragtual mrane mool ored
smen toub aod n Cr k Bmber 30.
Jiote
P1lcd 270157
Time mec a Da Orypto Center
04.563
Time vee d Seo so2
ACPION:
ID
EMPO:
AF, CAD, HAV, FO STATE
OM IN 5709
27 2ay 49) D190 2701572
dgkyB
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVFRNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.97)
4
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
3
INCOMINGETHEGRAM
Action: OLI-
Info:
Rec'd June 6, 1949
E
1 a.m.
P
POS
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
FE
DIVISION
DISTHIBUTION BRANCH
JUN 6-1949
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C-50486, June 3 (Army Message)
JOINT WEEKA 35 From CINCFE
894.00(W)/6-349
Action Assigned to
Action Taken 
7.8
Date of Action
Action Ofrice Symbol_L/-/A
Name of officero
SECRET
工

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.98)
BLASSIFIED
SECKET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for OSG ID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C 50486
JOINT WEEKA 35
3 Jun 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Fifth national Diet ended 1ts 110-day session,
which has been extended four times, just before midnight
31st May. Diet pessed 210 of 245 bills introduced during
sesslon. In olosing sossions, government obtained oooperation
of ant1-coalition group of demoorats, thus enabling lower
house override upper house amendments by virtue of two thirds
ma jority. All important bills, including those pertaining
administrative reorganization and nereonnel retrenchment,
passed by large ma jority. In final exhibition of strength,
government foroed through one measure with vote to 2o1 to 1.
Food securisy measure bill falled to pass lower house, and
gouncillors falled take final action on bill disciplining
4 members for taking part in disturbanoes 23rd May. Extensive
political reelignments ere oxpeoted develop now that session
has ended, with Diet remaining in racess ail summer.
Eoonomio:
(A) Egonomic changes: Currency stood at 306 bi1l1on
yen as of 30th May.
(0) Lahor: Communist-inspired labor disturbanoes in
Tokyo 30th end 3ist May resulted in one death 30th May, when
one demonstrator fell from window of munioipal assembly, where
unions and students were attempting interrups assembly session.
On 31st May, 1000 police supported by 2000 reserves clashed
with 30oo demonstrators.
Several hundred demonstrators and
CM IN 7042
(3 Jun 49)
137
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50486
Page 2
67 police injured, 66 arrests made.
South Korea:
political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, domestic and foreign polioies: Rerad USAFIK
ZGBI 389, 28th May 49 pertain1ng to opening nationa1 assemblies
special session.
Comment: Asseably may encounter considerable diffi- 
culty passing bills on looal government reform and grein
collection that will weet with President Rhee's approval.
If assenoly continues to submit bills objeotionable to ohief
executive, he probably will return measures on teohnioalities
without actually vetoing them. Rhee recently followed such
action in conneotion with local government reform and grain
collection measures. Suoh action would amount to killing
measures during current special session.
Rerad USAFK 2GBI 389, 28th May 49 pertaining arrest
of assemblymen and defeat assembly resolution requesting
their release.
Comment: If President Rhee behind arrests, as
rumored, he probably hopes influence young, progressive
legislators suffictently to ga in their cooperetion with
executive braneh of government. Assembly resolution requesting
release arrested legislators probably prompted by artiole 49
of constitution. Whether legisletors pass biils favorable
to executive braneh during assemblies specfal ses sion will
lergely reveal degree suecess governments action in arresting
the assemblymen.
Military:
(B)
Major changes in command, organizetion,
CM IN 7042
(3 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50486
Page 3
equipment and strength: Reur weekly intelligence report
number 11. 6th May 49 pertaining reorgan1zation south Korean
defense ministry.
Comment: USAFIK reports as of 23rd May position vice
ininister nationel defense not abolished. Chai Yung Duk still
vice minister. Statement oonoerning Ma jor General Chai Byung
Duk is incorreot. President Rhee 1ikes and respects Cha1,
as shown by Cha1's appointment ohief of staff, Korean Army.
North Korea:
Military:
(B) Ma jor changes in command, organization,
equipment and strength: Headquarters second brigade, north
Korean border oonstabulary organized similar to headquarters
first and third brigades (see general headquarters, Far East
Command da11y intelligence summary 2432, 7th May 49). How-
ever, second brigade headquarters has training company,
guard company; does not have artillery company. Three
battalions second brigade organized similar those of other
two brigades (see general headquarters, Far East Command
da1ly inte1ligence summary 2441, 16th May 49). Strength
second brigade reportedly 3467 officers, men.
Comment: Socond brigade probably primar1ly equipped
with Soviet weapons s ince 1ts three battalions believed those
formerly subordinate to old independent brigade whioh reported-
1y had Soviet weapons.
Reported strength first and third brigades. North
Korean border constabulary 3815 officers and men eech (see
generel headquarters, Far East Command daily intelligence summary
2453, 28th May 49 for breakdown by units).
Comment:
Total strength three border cons tabulary
CM IN 7042
(3 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50486
Page 4
brigades per above two reports represents inorease 1047 over
current accepted strength 10,O50. Sinoe border constabulary
reportedly being reorganized a ong lines similar peoples
army structure, increased s trength poss ible. However, no
reports new border constabulary units reoeived.
First and third brigades, orth Korean border
cons tabulary primaxfly equipped with Soviet weapons inoluding
Mossion-Nagant rifles, ppSH submachine guns (see general
headquarters, Far East Command daily intelligenoe summary
2455, 30th May 49 for quantities and distribution by units).
Comment: Exchange of Japanese weepons for Soviet types
by elements border constabulary reported early as July 48.
Although above report not confirmed, arming most units these
two brigades with Soviet weapons logical in view their mission
along 38th parallel opposite south Koreans armed with superior
weapons.
(C) Troop movements and conoentretions, inoidents
and operations: Recent rsport of low evaluation states north
Korean armed foroes, aided by elements Chinese Communist foroes
(CCF), will invade south Xoree soon after fall of Shanghai.
Elements league of Koreens res iding in Japan reoently told
south Korea will be conquored by August 49; leaders will
flee to Japen where league members will apprehend and exeoute
them.
Comment: Reports disclosing "plans" for north
Korean invaslon south Kores reoeived frequently in past; each
report fajled to materialize. Bellevod Soviet and north Korean
authorities will exploit employmont more extens ive fifth
column activities, civil diaturbances in attempt overthrow Rhee
government before resorting armed invasion. Despite this,
trend of events heving bearing on poasibility such invasion
merits close serutiny. Series unconfirmed reports (for letest
see USAF TK ZGBI 74, 28th May 49) cla1m CCF troops, notably
CM IN 7042
(3 Jun49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50486
Page 5
Manohurian-Koreans. entering or will enter north Korec for
integration into peoples army. North Korea-Chinese Communist
force pact reportedly s1gned 11th December 48 (see CINCFE WEEKA
19, 10th February 49) whereby CCF a1d was assured north Kores
"when necessary". If invas 1on south Korea planned, logioal.
that both CCF and Soviet logistical support will be providsa.
Moreover, radio pyongyang recently stated 1948 Soviet deoision
promised positive defense sove reignty, independence "Korean
people". Anticipated withdrawal United States forces will
remove one deterrent to invasion south Korea. Combination. these
fectors portends increasing effectiveness north Korean armed
foroes; emphasizes potential north Korean invas1on south
Korea or entry of troops coupled with attempted coup d'etat,
under guise restoring order.
philippines:
Military:
(A) Changes or contemplated changes in polioy:
President Quirino appointed board 19th May to investigate
possibilities reopening guerrilla back pay program. Board
composed of Secretary National Defense, Chief of Staff
Heedquarters National Defense Force (HNDF), one congressman,
one senator, and three high ranking HVDF officers.
Source comment: This indicates importance attached
veterans votes by political groups. (Jose Avelino end Jose
Laurel, both presidential candidates, have made campaign
pledges to secure beck pay benefits for philippine guerrillas).
(C) Troop movements and conoentrations: Several
minor Phiiippine constabulery (pC)-Hukabalhap (Huk) engagements
ocoured in Nueve Ecija and Bulacan provinoes during week
20-27 May. Huk supremo Luis Taruc and top lieutenants reported
directing dissident movement to mountein hideouts, leaving
smal? foraging parties in Nueve Eoija and Pampanga provinoes.
CM IN 7042
(3 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 6
Nr:
C 50486
Marked increase dissid nt movements southern Luzon, partioularly
Tayabas and Laguna priinces. Taruos second-in-command Castro
Ale jandrino reportel forming now Huk concentration Laguna.
Source oumment: General trend appears Huk withiruwal
to areas not easily aucessible to PC units during rainw season
(rainy season Tat Juno to ist Oatober). PC continues deglare
dissident prroiem eradioated.
PYCOM:
Politioel:
(B) Important dorestio speeches: Okinawa oivil
a lintstration (ocA) will conduct speaking tours Okinawa to.
igin lst June. Purpose, ive information current polioies
O.A and military government and combet erroneous information
plitical leaders have disneminated.
Miscellaneous:
(A) Recent subvers ive incidents: Senaga Kame jiro,
(recently arrested illegel possession United States govern-
ment property, reourad Joint Army-Air WEEkA number 33 dated
20th May 49), pF-s 1dent Urima Sh1mpo Newspaper Company,
oirculating palmphlets which state United States generators
for newspaper furnished by former military government PI0
at termination was, and that Urime Shimpo subjeoted to
oriticlam by Japanese and Okinawans for advising Japanese
quit res1sting United Stetes foroes during war. Pamphlet
quotes Kamejiro: "I have always cooperated with American troops
and did not oppose them".
Air: (.eported by FEAF):
Japan:
(3 Jun 49)
CM IN 7042
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.91)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
0 50486
Page 7
Informent tates repairs and utilities truck drivers
at Nagoye Air Force Base seen passing pamphlets to laborers.
Same truck drivers heard discussing Coumunist party policies.
Communist party badges seen ins ide their goats. Dete1ls will
follow subsequsnt complete interrogation.
Philippines:
Shipper of "mystery time bomb tox" aboard pAL plane
which exploded and crashed into sea off coast Alabat Is lands.
regulting In death 3 peasengers end orew mewbors, hes been
arreated by Naticna. Bureau of Investigation Agents. Chemical
experts, after sxamt ation of reoovered parts and other
materteis from blas oa plane subatantis ted ex istence of bomb.
pres ident Cuirino hes mromoted Pelagio A Cruz to
temporary pank of B tgadier Generel as long as he commands
air Peroos. Prouotiou va pur unnt to Natronal Dofense Act
of Philtpptnes whten proviles mank of brigedior General Por
comavder f  .
Ho te:
P118 03073172
0 c00 08105.6
5:0
1000
Note: 389 1   0 28 ay, 
ACTION:
INFO: AF. CAD. HAVY. PO STATE
CM IN 7042
(3 000 49) D00 0307312 020/4
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.92)
8
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
CMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
2
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
Rec'd June 13, 1949
2:00 a.m.
DFLAHT ENT OF STATE
18
ACQULT F ANE DISTHIBUTION
DIVISION
DISTHIRUTION RHANCH
Action:
OLI
JUN131949
Inro
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM
Tokyo
To:
Seeretary of State
894.00
10:
0 50636, June 10, 1949 ( Army Meseage(
  36
(W)
Action Assigned to
6
hord
-1049
Action Taken
Accion Orfice SyubolQ4=/A
Name of Ofricer
Direction to DC/K
工
H
1112910

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info: USAF
Nr:
C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
10 Jun 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Political parties in turmoil during backstage
maneuvers preceding entry of Inukai Ken, leader coalition
faction of democrats, into democratic-liberal party.
Many elements in both parties dissatisfied with scheme,
which will be test of strength for Prem1er Yoshida.
Allotment of 17 parliamentary vice-minister posos, regarded
as political plums, arouses some resentment. Smashing
democratic-liberal victory in by-election for councillor
seat in Hyogo prefecture regarded as significant.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: For second time in less than
month note issue dropped below 300 billion mark, stood at
298 b111ion 7 June 49.
South Korea:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Rerad USAFIK Z0BI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining
assemblys resolution demanding resignation Rhees entire
cabinet.
CM IN 8353
(10 Jun 49)
138
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
Comment:
Tactics used by progressive bloc to pass resolution
indicates possible trend in future legislative action
in that progressives may attempt to pass other bills
and resolutions during absence Rhees conservative
supporters. Such action may prove embarrassing to
Rhees administration and possibly to United States
Government, although majority assembly habitually
supports Rhee. Assembly resolution may illustrate
to Rhee that mutual cooperetion between executive
and legislative branches 1s necessary to prevent
retaliatory action by progressive bloc.
Rerad USAFIK ZOBI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining indictment
Louise Yim, Minister Commerce and Industry, and Cho Bong Am,
former minister egriculture and forestry.
Comment:
No indication yet that President Rhee will intercede
on behalf Minister Yim, as rumored. Presidential
intervention for Yim might incur further wrath of
progressive bloc assemblymen leading to additional
attacks on executive branch of government. Such
threatened action may serve as deterrent 1f Rhee
plans dismiss charges against Yim. Misappropriation
funds of Chos former department for repairing his
home probably basis for Chos indictment (See General
Headquarters, Far East Command daily intelligence
summaxy 2366, 2 March 49).
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining recommenda-
tion Ryee Chul Wun (Clarence Ryee) be appointed director office
public information.
Comment:
CM IN 8353
(10 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 134N O-811947

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
Although Ryeo pro-American, he is strong exponont
of rightist groups campaign to secure additional
United States aid and equipment for republio.
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining
recommendation Koo Yung Sook be appointed minister public
health.
Comment:
Appointment has little significance since assembly
failed to appropriate funds for recently authorized
ministry.
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes: Rerad USAFIK
ZGBI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining distribution of fertilizer.
Comment:
Many assemblymen severely critical governments failure
to adequately distribute fertilizer to farmers.
Legislators charge government reeking with graft
similar Chinese Nationalist Government. Apparently
Rhee aware of graft situation and lack of fertilizer
distribution, but has taken no positive action to
eliminate conditions. If farmers lose faith in
governments promise to furniah fertilizer in part
payment for grains, 1949 summer and 1949-50 grain
collection programs may fail worse than 1948-49
program. Possible that leftists, who infiltrated
Department Agriculture through affiliation with
former Minister Cho Bong Am, may purposely be
sabotaging republics food economy, although more likely
that individual greed responsible for situation.
(10 Jun 49)
CM IN 8353
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE194 O.811947
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMÈNT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
North Koree:
Military:
(A) Changes or contemplated changes in polioy:
North Korean Government reportedly initiated military
conscription system 1 May 49. Male youths between ages
18 and 28 were slated for induction by 15 May.
Comment:
If report true, men probably conscripted for Peoples
Army, although earlier reports mentioned conscription
for Navy (See General Headquarters, Far East Command
daily intelligence summary 2342). Previous reports
indicated military manpower requirements met by
assigning quotas to local peoples committees who
supplied men by various means. Conscription program
logical at this time since recent information
indicates Peoples Army being expanded.
(C) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and operations: Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining
recent desertions from North Korean Armed Forces.
Comment:
Over past year (15 May 48 to 4 June 49) reported
desertions North Korean Armed Forces total 116.
Recently, political considerations stated as reasons
for most desertions.
Psychological:
Rerad USAFIK ZGBI 413, 4 June 49 pertaining North
Korean plans for formation democratic front for unification
Korea.
CM IN 8353
(10 Jun 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
Page 5
Comment:
Soviet and North Korean governments no doubt know
United States withdrawal from South Korea imminent.
This possibly explains current emphasis North Korea
placing upon formation North-South front for
"unification". Radio Pyongyang claims 8 South Korean
political organizations support plan for formation of
democratic front. Claims probably partially true
since 7 of 8 parties concerned either leftist or
moderate with leftist tendencies. Group of South
Korean political party members, backing North Korean
cause and claiming extensive support their parent
organizations, would be ideal front for North Korean
exploitation in "justifying" coup or armed interven-
tion in event of large scale internal disorders South
Korea. Can be anticipated North Korea will greatly
exaggerate extent South Korean support of movement for
unification. Coup and creation widespread internal
disturbances probably are means North Korea will employ
initially in attempt gain control entire Korean pen-
insula. Troops then may enter South Korea under guise
restoring order. Believed North Korean regime will not
intentionally resort to armed invasion southern zone
unless other methods fail. (See General Headguarters,
Far East Command daily inteliigence summary 2452).
Considering foregoing factors, plans for formation
democratic front for "unification" emphasizes proba-
bility increased North Korean political penetration
South Korea in near future.
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Quirino wing liberal party opened General
Headquarters Manila 29 May; House Speaker Eugenio Perez,
CM IN 8353
(10 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-B11947

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
Page6
Campaign Manager. Quirno group taking anti-leftist campaign
stand. Avelino faction liberal party attempting promote
leftist labor support and offering concessions Hukbalahaps
if elected. Laurels Nacionalista Party expected continue
pro-leftist policy.
Congressman Cornelio Villa Eal, Chairman House
Committee un-Filipino ctivities, recently held conference
with leading Maniia nevapaper editors regarding combating
Communist influence Ph lippines. Villa Eal will present
next session congress :roposed bill outlawing Communism and
Communist organization Philippines.
(B) Important Gomestic speeches: Jose Avelino,
presidential candidate delivered campaign speeches Visayas
Juring week 27 May-3 Jine. Received warning: murder plot
scheduled his Mindanao tour.
Source comment:
Murder plot rumo possibly promulgated by Avelino
propagandists Maila.
RYCOM:
Political:
(B) Important ( mmestic speeches: members democratic
alliance party created lsturbanees and heckled Okinawa
Civil Adminietration (( A) speakers during OCA tour.
(Reourad Joins Army-Air MEkA number 35 dated 3 June 49).
(c) Reactions : amporbant events: Kaneji Saichi,
Chairman Peoples Party
nd Communint mayor of Motobu Cho
(97.5-27.0) reported to
ave submitted resignatlon to village
assembly as protest to
rest of Senaga Kamojiro, party
member and President Ux
:as Shimpo newapaper Company.
CM IN 8353
(00 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: . C 50636
JOINT WEEKA 36
(reourad Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 35 dated 3 June 49)
Motobu assembly refused accept Kaneji resignation.
Air:
(Reported by FEAF):
Philippines:
Talks on proposed commercial air treaty between
Philippines and Australia begun at Canberra, Australia.
Previous attempts over past 2 years not consummated.
Use of 3 Philippine Air Force fighters in attack
against Huk concentration indicates General Ramos, Chief of
Philippine Constabulary, now employing PAF in campaign
against Huks.
President Quirino directed activation of air ROTC
unit to be assigned Philippine Air Force. This is first
official act giving PAF control of reserve forces.
Captain Emilio O (middle initial) Borremeo designated
Assistant Chief Air Staff for A-2, Philippine Air Force.
Lieutenant Colonel Augusto L (middle initial) Jurado made
Assistant Chief Air Staff for Plans and Operations,
Philippine Air Force. Lieutenant Colonel Benito N (middle
initial) Ubuen ass1gned Base Commander, Wichols Air Base,
Manila. Brigadier General Pelagio A (middle initial) Cruz,
Chief of Philippine Air Force, issued statement promising
"A speedy development of Philippine Air Force as an effective
combat command in the defense pattern of the Philippines".
Note:
Time f1led 100049Z
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center 100411z
Time rec'd Sco 100707z
NOTE:
WEEKA No 35 1s CM IN 7042 (3 Jun 49) ID
ZGBI 413 1s CM IN 7278 (5 Jun 49) ID
ACTION:
ID
INFO
: AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 8353
(10 Jun 49)
DTG: 100049Z
ros/3
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.89)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UBYAHTNENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ACLJINITIUN AND DIBTBIBUTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DIVISION
OISTRIBUTION BRANCH
3
SECRET
JUN 2 01949
Action: OLI
Info:
E
P
Rec!a June 20, 1949..
EUR
1 a.m.
FE
CON
POS
DCR
FROO
Pokey
TO:
Becpebary of Sbate
NO.
c SuB2), June 17 (Army Hessage
894.00
JOY A Y M INE
Action aren 
9
7
49
Oiton
Nome of (fricer -
fls
5
SCRET FILE
工
0
PERMANEN

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
17 Jun 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Government showing increasingly strong attitude
toward instigators of wild-cat strikes, which tied up Tokyos
net of interurban electric railways from 9 to 12 June, con-
templates using examination committee of lower house as means
of disciplining Communist members. Organized labor continues
protest of dismissals resulting from administrative retrench-
ment program. Reilway unions continue to display defiant
attitude, urge use of force against government.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency remains below three
hundred biil1on mark of ninth straight day, standing at 295
billion 14 June.
South Korea:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, domestic and foreign policies: Rerad USMILAT
Seoul 110320z, 12 June 49 pertaining resignation Louise Yim,
Minister Commerce and Industry.
Comment: Appears Yims indictment for malfeasance in
office was decisive factor involved. Believed that Yim
apprehensive over loss of position and possible confinement
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
137
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1948 O-811947

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
when Assemblys special session ends 19 June. Although Yim
retained Rhees support for many months despite adverse
criticism by Assemblymen, strong public opinion and ourrent
attitude of legislators apparently prohibited Rhee from
interceding on Yims behalf. For all practical purposes,
Yim 1s political has been. Considered unlikely Rhee wiil
appoint her to future political post.
Rerad USMILAT Seoul 110320Z, 12 June 49 pertaining
demonstration 7,000 students before United States Embassy.
Comment: Although demonstrators were pro-American,
future demonstrations may be exploited by Communists since
such gatherings present excellent opportunity for leftists
incite temperamental participants.
Yun Suk Koo, Minister Communications, resigned 6 June
49。
Comment: Since inception Korean Government 15 August
48, only three members Rhees original cabinet, including
Prime Minister, still hold office. These members are Kim Do
Yun, Minister Finance; Ah O (Middle Initial) Sang, Minister
Education and Lee Bum Suk, Prime Minister. Constant cabinet
changes fail to appease progressive blcc Assemblymen. Yuns
successor and reason for resignation not revealed.
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes or reforma:
Rerad USMILAT Seoul 110320Z, 13 June 49 pertaining Assemb1ys
unfavorable attitude toward summer gain purchasing program.
Comment: Outcome of current dissension between govern-
ments executive and legislative branches will determine to large
degree success implementation of governments plan to purchase
summer grains. Apparently need for grain collection program
ignored by Assemblymen despite current high rice prices and
rice shortages. Lack of collection program and governments
failure to adequately distribute urgently needed fertilizer
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE- 1948 O.811947

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
Page 3
to farmers may cause severe food shortage, particularly in
urpan areas. Assemblymen condemn grain collections as
"undemocratic" while paradoxically supporting such undemocratic
practices as suppression free speech through suspension
publication newspapers.
Military:
(c) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and operations: Rerad USMILAT Seou1 11032OZ, 12 June 49
pertaining penetration South Korea by graduate Kangdong
political school.
Comment: Kangdong political school is guerrilla
training school sponsored by North Korean Labor Party; located
eight miles east of Pyongyang (390l-12544) North Korea. South
Korean police captured few members November and December 48;
obtained information pertaining organization, equipment and
missions (see Far East Command Daily Intelligence Summary
2272,2305).
North Korea:
Military:
(A) Changes or or contemplated changes in policy:
Recently publicized system of benefits for dependents North
Korean Peoples Army enlisted personnel (see Far East Command
Daily Intelligence Summary 2465) reportedly extended to
include dependents of enlisted men in police administration
and police constabulary.
Comment: Dependency benefits should induce more men
to join armed services concerned, and improve quality their
service. Apparently officers of services involved and all
personnel other security force components not affected.
Exclusion latter from benefits may cause certain amount friction
and lowering morale.
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1948 O-811947

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
Page 4
(B) Major changes in command, organization, equipment
and strength: Battalion of Third Border Constabulary Brigade
incorporated into Peoples Army 1 May 49.
Comment: Report unconfirmed but incorporation security
force unts, particularly border constabulary, likely step.
Limited experience which border personnel gained as result.many
forays across 38th Parallel, probably exceeds that possessed
by many, if not most, members of the Peoples Army. With
additional training, border constabulary troops would be
valuable adjunct to Peoples Army; their use would be limited
primarily by necessity for their employment 1n internal security
in event North-South armed conflict.
Rerad USMILAT Seoul, 11O32OZ, 12 June 49 pertaining
Soviet military equipment furnished North Korea.
Comment: Earlier report stated Soviet shipped mortars,
guns, armored cars, and ammunition to North Korea during
period February-April 49 (see General Headquarters, Far East
Command Daily Intelligence Summary 2463). In view previous
information concerning Soviet-North Korean economic and
cultural aid pact (which possibly includes a military aid
clause) and Soviet probable future role for North Korea, Soviet
military equipment probably will continue to be furnished North
Korea, at least until Communists have made every effort to
attain control all Korea.
Miscellaneous:
Sociological:
Recent North Korean radiocasts asserted all Korean
people enthusiastically supporting North Korean efforts form
"democratic front" for unification Korea. One broadcast
claimed 10 South Korean political parties and 23 social
organizations wholeheartedly favored front.
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-B11947

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
Page 5
Comment: Buildup being given this Communist front
by North Korea parallels that accorded joint conference in
Pyongyang in April 48. At that time selected South Korean
political parties were represented and Communists claimed
overwhelming majority Koreans were opposed to South Korean
elections slated 10 May 48. Such tactios enabled North
Korea to claim Koreans favored Communism. Democratio Front
believed to be similar propaganda device designed to unite,
under North Korean leadership, South Korean elements who
oppose Rhee Government (see General Headquarters, Far East
Command WEEKA 36, 10 June 49).
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Rumored that Manuel Briones, Nacionalista Vice-
Presidential Candidate, will withdraw from candidacy. Surplus
property Commissioner Jose Zuluetta, 9 June, offered Jose
Laurel (Nacionalista Presidential Candidate) his support as
running mate.
Source Comment: Laurel support increasing. Zuluetta
as running mate would increase Laurels chances winning
elect1on. Slight repercussion caused by remark attributed
Laurel that he advocated revolution "if necessary to change
an administration abusing the rights of the people".
Quirino issued press statement last week to effect government
would cease support block-Pamintuan mission in United States
seeking Filipino veterans benefits. Filipino Guerrilla
Veterans Legion National Commander, Manuel Dikit, presented
resolution to Quirino, 8 June, asking him retract statement
and furnish monetary support to mission. Dikit requested
audience with President, was denied. Dikit privately stated
Quirino failure support block-Pamintuan mission would result
veterans opposition Quirino reelection and supporting either
Avelino or Laurel.
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICÁTIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
Page 6
Comment: Dikit initiated block-Pamintuan misaion to
United States; Philippine Government and leading politicians
provided financial support. Should government withdraw
support, Dikit could probably sway many guerrilla veterans
votes to Avelino or Laurel.
Military:
(C) Troop movements and operations: Small Hukbalahap
(Huk) foraging parties continue harrassing action central
Luzon. Philippine Constabulary offensive operations directed
dislodge estimate 500 Huks in vicinity Mt Guiniat, Nueva
Ecija Province.
RYCOM:
Political:
(B) Important domestic speeches: Okinawa Civ1l
Administration (OCA) officials conducting speaking tours
Okinawa. Text of speeches include: Position Okinawa civil
government in relation military government, taxes, food
prices, and transportation systems.
Miscellaneous:
Sociological:
Socialist Party President Ogani Chotoky reported
seeking publish article entitled "The Road to the Establishment
of New Ryukyus", which show three ways Okinawa can turn: (A)
Towards Japan, (B) towards the United Staes as a territory,
(C) complete independence.
Subversive:
Six persons reported held by Nago Okinawa police for
alleged smuggling of bombs and pamphlets into Okinawa.
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
TINCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50824
JOINT WEEKA 37
Page 7
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Korea:
Delayed reports indicate approximately 20 twin engine
aircraft at Pyongyang airfield on 15 March 49, identity
unknown but type possibly C-47. During April 1949 approx-
imately 15 Soviet P-39 fighter type aircraft reportedly arrived
Pyongyang airfleld; from time their arrival until 3 May they
made short daily flights over Pyongyang in groups of three.
Identification based on red stars painted on fuselage and
wings.
Philippines:
Bi-weekly air service between Manila and Hong Kong
inaugurated 1 June by arrival Manila of Hong Kong Airways
Limited four engine flying boat.
NOTE:
110320Z 1s CM IN 9027 (14 Jun) ID
ACTION:
ID
INFO : AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 9774
(17 June 49)
DTG 170631Z
ho/1
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 19B O.811947

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELFGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Rec'd June 27, 1949
2:00 a.m.
18
Action: OLI
Info
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
E
ACQUISITION AND DISTHIBUTION
DIVISION
P
DISTHIBUTION BRANCH
POS
FE
JUN271949
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
894.00
NO
C 50996, June 24, 1949 ( Army Message)
WEEKA 38
Kadluk
on Taken
9
6-2449
tion
Diresti
工
SEOTET

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info: USAF Wash DC
Mr:
C 5C996
24 Jun 49
WEEKA 38
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Government considering demands, spearheaded by
Social-Democratic Party, for early emergency Diet session
to cope with anticipated labor offensive in July and August.
Communist Party, following convention 18th and 19th June.
indicates change in policy by offering to join "any coalition
government of democratic forces". Move is immediately denounced
by all other political parties.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Despite violence of early
typhoon Della, no permanent damage to rice crop anticipated.
Currency 1ssue drops to 290 billion yen as of i9th June but
begins to rise slightly with month end demand for funds.
Total contraction since 30th December 48 approximately 78
billion yen.
North Korea:
Military:
(B) Major changes in command, organization, equipment
and strength: Rerad USMILAT Seoul, 180200Z, 20th June 49
pertaining plans for inereasing strength of Peoples Army to
120, 000 by 1st September 49.
CM IN 11177
(24 Jun 49)
138
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50996
Page 2
Comment:
Previous report of sufficient Soviet aid to permit
expansion Peoples Army to 6 divisions and 3 mechanized units
tends to substant1ate report of expansion to 120,000. (See
Far East Command Daily Intell1gence Summany 2437). Since
Soviets were able to accommodate 165,00o troops in North
Korea, it 1s believed facilities exist which may be used by
at least 120,000 Peoples Army troops. There 1s no indication,
however, that facilities for that many troops exist.in area
between 38th and 39th parallels. Apart from problem billeting
and training areas is question of impact Peoples Army of
120,000 would have on North Korean economy. In view previous
reports stating many North Koreans experiencing diffioulty
obtaining sufficient food, and food being exported to UssR,
questionable whether North Korean economy, adequately support
120,O00 Peoples Army troops, in addition to Security Forces,
without causing extreme hardships for populace. Such hard-
ships would entail security risks for North Korean regime if
current information on extent potential opposition to govern-
ment is substantially true (see Far East Command Daily Intel-
11gence Summany 2474).
Rerad USMilat Seoul, 180200z, 20th June 49 pertaining
production of munitions at Pyongyang arsenal.
Comment :
Rehabilitation Kan-Ni (3910-12540) arsenal reportedly
completed 21st March 49, although production munitions had
not started 29th March. Even if both Pyongyang and Kan-N1
arsenals were producing, the amount munitions they could
furnish North Korean armed forces would be small in comparison
to needs.
Psychological:
CM IN
11177
(24 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50996
Page 3
"Democratic Front" for unification Korea continued
during period as headline feature propaganda campaign con-
ducted by radio Pyongyang. Radio claimed delegates from
51 political parties and social organizations throughout
Korea attended meeting of preparatory committee in Pyongyang,
25th May. Broadcast stated any political or social organi-
zation, regardless of political leanings, could join Front.
Comment :
Bid for support of Democratic Front apparently being
intensified, involving threats, coercion and persuasion.
Unless Front prepared to make greater concessions to South
Korea than presently visualized, believed that peaceful
rapprochement will fail.
South Korea:
Politica;:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, domestic and foreign policies: Rerad USMilat
Seoul, 180200z, 20th June 49, pertaining dissolution of
special police by President Rhee.
Comment:
Disbandment National Assemblys special police may
pacify Seoul metropolitan police and forestall threatened
public police strike. Presidents action may further incite
assemblymen and widen breach between governments executive
and legislative branches. Assembly implementation of National
Traitor Law will be hindered by Rhee's act. Believed Rhee
readily agreed to disbandment since he opposes rigid enforce-
ment of law, fearing virtually needed techniciane and specialist
will be prosecuted.
Rerad USMILAT Seoul, 180200Z, 20th June 49 pertaining
assembly action on bills for land reform, summer grain collec-
tion and vested property.
CM IN
11177
(24 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
US GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1918 O-B11947

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 4
Nr:
C 50996
Comment:
Stalemate on land reform and abolishment summer grain
collection program indicate legislators disregard for general
welfare of people. Doubtful if assembly will pass important
measures, with constructive provisions, until legislators and/
c Rhee extricate themselves from pernicious situation by
face-saving exit. Assemblys successful legislative opposition
to government-sponsored bills and to Rhee's recommendations
for "improving" bills indicates that Rhee may be losing
assembly control. However, despite past setbacks, Rhee habitu-
ally has outmaneuvered his opposition although forced to grant
some concessions. Possible he is playing for time to initiate
new tactics, and build up following which has suffered during
his tenure office.
Rerad USMILAT Seoul, 180200Z, 20th June 49 pertaining
passage modified local government reform law.
Comment :
Measure has been political football between Rhee and
assembly since 1st April 49 when president returned bill to
legislators with suggestion its implementetion date be
determined by executive branch. Aithough Rhee used many
reasons for returning bill to assembly, believed he objected
to bill in principle since it originally was designed to exten-
sively reduce his patronage power. Thus, Rhee has outmaneuvered
legislative body again, and apparently has appeased them with
minor concessiors while retaining most of his appointive
suthority.
Kim Yak Soc, Vice Chairman National Assembly, signed
petition, 17th June, protesting retention United States Korean
Military Advisory Group in Korea. Petition, submitted to
United Nations Commission on Korea, expressed fear retention
Six
KMAG will place Korea in situation similer to Greece.
CM IN
11177
(24 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICI 1948 O.811947

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50996
Page 5
assemblymen collaborated with Kim on petition, 2 of whom
believed members South Korean Labor Party. Ail 6 arrested
2lst June on President Rhee's orders as violators National
Security Law. Police expected apprehend Kim 22nd June.
Comment:
Five of 7 persons involved, including Kim, implicated
in 19th March petition to UNCOK requesting withdrawal United
States troops (see Far East Command Intelligence Summary
2386). Possibie Kim signed petition as representative of
62 assembly men believed supporting petition.
Philippines:
Political:
(B) Important domestic speeches: On day prior to
llth June convention of President Quirino faction of Liberal
Party, Senator Lorenzo Tanada released to press letters
refuting Quirino"s platform statement of current clean and
honest government. Letters based on Quirino end house
speaker Eugenic Perez complicity immigration racket.
Tanada
reportedly has authentie evidence participation Quirino and
Perez in immigration quota irregularities.
Tanada action seized upon presidential candidates
Avelina and Laurel, causing considerable damage Quirino
presitige.
Avelino has prepared anti-Laurel speeches which
reportedly are being held in abeyance until after Quirino
completely disparaged.
Military:
CM IN
11177
(24 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
J S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 14B - O-811947

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50996
Page 6
(C) Troop movements and operations: Hukbalahap
(Huk) movements increasing Pangasianan and Nueva Vizcaya
provinces as dissidents retreat from Philippine constabu-
lary (PC) offensives Nueva Ecija. PC intelligence agents
Nueva Ecija have reportedly broken ring Huk supporters
among wealthy and politically 1nfluential citizens capital
city Cananatuan. Agents under direct supervision Lieutenant
Colonel Napoleon Valeriano, Comnanding Officer, Philippine
Constabulary Forces Nueva Ecija, reportedly have secret
orders direct principal efforts against pro-Huk sympathizer
Juan Chioco, governor Nueva Ecija Province.
Source Comment:
Before accepting command Nueva Ecija operations,
Valerino demanded assurance from Philippine Constabulary
G-2, Lieutenant Colonel Macario Asistio, efforts prove
connections of Chioco and other prominent Nueva Ecijans in
pro-Huk activities would not be blocked.
Subversive:
1. United States Navy light cruiser, 2 destroyers
scheduled arrive Manila latter part June participate Phili-
ppine independence ceremony 4th July. Philippine intelli-
gence agencies apprehensive local leftists will attempt to
cause incident by sabotage while ships at Manila piers.
RYCOM:
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Typhoon Della struck Okinawa
between 200002z and 2006552. 50 mile per hour wind and heavy
rain prevailed. Damage to native crops not yet determined.
Expected heavy losses rice, soy beans, and sweet potatoes.
CM IN
11177
(24 Jun 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948  O-B11947

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 50996
Page 7
Subversive:
Okinawa police arrested member organization known as
"Nan Mei Ketsu Mei Domei". Subject states organization has
approximately 300 members. Purpose, to restore militarism
to Japan. Member allegedly bear tatoo mark left hand and
wear badge with Japanese characters for words "blood"
inscribed thereon. Subject claims to be one of original 13
orgainizers of group in Kagoshima, Kyushu, 1945.
Air: (Reported by FEAF):
Philippines:
100 tons unserviceable bombs exploded 20th June in
Barrio (13 degrees 46 minutes North-121 degrees 05 minutes
east) ammunition bay. Batangas and neighboring town
violently rocked. No casualties reported. Cause explosion
undetermined.
Commercial and residential districts of Masbate (120
degrees 21 minutes north-123 degrees 38 minutes east)
severely damaged by fire of undetermined origin. Property
damage estimated at two million dollars.
ACTION:
ID
INFO
AF, CAD, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN
11177
(24 Jun 49) DTG: 240845Z ers/B
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O.811947

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DIBTRIBUTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DIVISION
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
8
SECRET
JUL 5-1949
Action: OLI-
Info:
E
Rec'd July 4, 1949
P
1 a.m.
FE
CON
POS
DCR
FROR:
Tokyo
TO:
Seeretary of State
C 51167, July 2 (Army Message)
894.00
JOTNT WEEKA 39 fPOm CTNORE
(W)/7-249
Action Taken
Date of Action
Action Orrice Syabol
meor fon to DC/R
416
2
SECRET
王

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REGUIRED
PRIORITY
From:
CINCFE Tolyo Japan
To:
Dept of the Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
C 51167
2 Jul 49
Subject is Joint Army-Air VEEKA number 39.
Japan:
Political:
(A)
Important changes or contemplated changes in
Government: First 1949 shipment of Japanese repasriates
Prom Siberia reached Maizuru 27th June. Only 19 civilians
included among 2,00o repatriates, most of whom were in
excellent condition and appeared well fed. High degree
Soviet indoctrination was apparent, as many claimed that
whole group would join Japan Communist party at cnce.
After Swo days, marked softening of defiant attitude was
evident, with further improvement predicted. Greup of Diet
members going to United States vill be headed by Vamazaki
Takesh, former Lower House Speaker, and will inelude 2
Democratic-Liberals, 1 Right Ving Social-Democrat, 1 member
of Green Breeze Society of house of councillors and 1 anti-
coalition Democrat. Two non-political Diet officials will
accompany group
Economic:
(A) Eccnomic Changes: Curreney rises slighsly
at month end to eross 3oo billion yen mark.
South Kcrea:
Political:
CM IN 12609
(2 Jui 49)
138
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194R O.811947

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51167
Page 2
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes.
Government: Rerad USM1lAt Seoul 2407152, 25th June 49
ertaining rumors of changes to occur among government
officials.
Comment: In past other cabinet changes have been
prefaced by rumors to that effect. Generally, Rhee ostensibly
disregards pressure for cabinet changes, but when pressure
apparently subsides he subtly makes changes. Considered
unlikely Rhee will appoint Lee Bum Suk to Ministry Defence
since Rhee well aware Lee built up political machine in
Army and Police during his former tenure as Minister
National Defense. If appointed to head Ministry Defense,
Lee would be in position to continue enlisting supporters
and building clique in armed forces (see General Headquarters,
Far East Command daily intelligence summary 2369). However,
1f Lee persuaded to relinquish position Prime Minister in
order to accept position as Minister Defense, he may be on
way out of Government since Rhee can dismiss ministers at will
uhile assembly concurrence necessary to dismiss Prime
Minister. Believed Armed Forces will suffer if Shin Sung
Mo replaced since he is able administrator, honest, has
armed services at heart, and is not politician. Apparently
Louise Yim retains Rhee's support despite past feilures
and charges of malffeasance in government office.
Rerad USMInAT Seoul 260900z, 26th June 49 pertaining
Kim Koo:s assassinotion.
Comment: Motive for assassination not yes estab-
lished. Kim has remained in political background since
fiasco of politieal conference at Pyongyang, North Korea
April 48, bit active in conniving to head unified Rorea.
He
has wooed leftists end Chinese Communists in attempt to
achieve objective. Kim was classic example of cviental
politician vhose loyalties are dictated largely by personal
aggrandizement. Ho was considered having potent..al of
executing military coup' d'etat in Rhee's governmont and
(2 Jul 49)
CM IN 12609
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICI 194A O.811947

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SEGRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51167
Page 3
emerging as head of new government. Kim bitterly opposed
Rhee and his politics despite past association with him
in Korean Provisional Government in China.
Subversive:
(A) Rebel tactics: Rerad USMILAT Seoul 240715Z,
25th June 49 pertaining change in rebel tactics.
Comment: Initiating tactics of burning farm homes
may gain converts for rebels as such tactics did on. Cheju
Island. Intimidation of people is typical Communist trick
to gain "supporters". Methods government uses to combat
rebels and regain confidence of people will determine to
large degree success of rebels tactics.
North Korea:
Military:
(A) Contemplated changes in policy: Intercepted
letter dated 24th May 49 from Chief of Staff, Third Division,
Peoples Army to 7th Regiment discussed general strategy for
invasion South Korea. Directed every effort be made to insure
guiet in Jhongong-Ni area (3802-12704) and divert attention
Korean Army from that zone. Letter cailed for ineessant
diversionary attacks at several points along 38th parallel,
including currently disputed Ongjin Peninsula (3755-12507);
directed 7th and Sth Regiments, Peoples Army, make all
preparations for military operation "in future".
Comment: Korean army handling of Ongjin fighting
indicates such North Korean diversionary tactics may effectively
disperse South Korean troops stationed north of Secul and
weaken defense of more important points in that anea However,
United States military advisers varned Korean army officials
of danger invelved.
CM IN 12609
(2 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-B11947

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51167
Page 4
Previously reported unidentified Peoples Army Tank Unit
now subordinate to 1st Division; on 15th May had 60 medium,
20 light tanks disposed as follows: Pyongyang approximately
17: Hwangju (3840-12546) 5; Sariwon (3830-12544) 5; Chaeryong
(3824-12538) 15; S1nmak (3826-12614) 15; Hae Ju (3802-12542)
8; Kumchon 3810-12628) 15. D1fferent source observed
convoy 18 tanks Sariwon, 12th May; in addition to Korean
crews, one Soviet accompanied each tank.
Comment: This is first report Peoples Amry tank unit
subordinate to Ist Division. All other information indicated
unit under direct control Ministry National Defense. Above
report significant in view recent, unconfimed reports
that lst Division Headquarters and element 2nd Regiment
moved to Sariwon. Moreover, certain amount activity noted
near Chaeryong and Namchonjom (3820-12624), respeetive
locations 1st Divisions 1st and 3rd Regimental Headguarters.
Movement may mean lst Division units engaged in conbined
arms exercises, but there is no confirmation such exercises
underway. Reported disposition of tanks may signify that
future employment contemplated under decentralized control.
Eary in 1949 special military police orcanization
established in Peoples Army to conduct counter intelligence
activities, maintain order, prevent desertions.
Elements
this organisatior. observed Hamhung (3954-12732), Vonsan
(3910-12726).
Coumnent: Establishment of military police possibly
partial explanation for decrease in known peoples prmy
desertions Prom 21 in last 6 months 1948 tc 9 duri ng Sirst
5 months l949. Belleved that reported organizaticn re-
presonts foimalization and reorganization previoesay existing
military police type mctivities, rather than crest on new
ageney. Unl ikely Peoples Army has existed since le4s without
some type milltary police arrargements.
(0)
Troop movements and operations:
Peopl.es Army
CM IN 12609
(2 Ju) 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51167
Page 5
3rd Division Headquarters, service and support units, and
division artillery regiment (less one battalion) have moved
from Hamhung to Wonsan.
Conment: This report confirms previous information;
movement is accepted. Move places entire 3rd Division in
more favorable forward positions along important Wonsan-
Secul corridor; will facilitate closer control of subordinate
elements ir divisions zone, just north of 38th paralliel.
Entire 2nd Division could now be moved into Hamhung-Hungnan
area, thus placing North Korean armed forces in better positdon
to launch invaslon South Korea (see General Headguarter,
Far East Cemmand daily intelligence summary 2481).
Aiieraft observed at Pyongyang central airfield 1lth
April consisted of 33 single engine Soviet made airplanes,
3 twin-engine transports, 2 twin-engine aireraft of undeter-
mined type, and a single engine bi-plane. During peried
13-15 May, 48 single engine fighters, 3 single engine trainers,
2 twin engine bombers, and 2 twin engine transports were
observed sane locaion. Formation flights of 9 ard 12 planes
also cbserved during sene period. Total of 58 Soviet pilots
obaerved in Pyongyang 15th May
Comnent: Jumber of Soviet pilots reportedly in
Pyongyeng suggests possibility that aireraft observed there
constituted Soviet training flight from Far Eastern airfields
outside Korea. Ponsession of transports and bomber by the
relatively roung and inexperieneed. Peoples Army Air Forces
regardcd untikely.
Peychological: Rerad USMILAT Seoul 2407 52, 25th
June 49 persarning plans for inaugural meeting comunist-
created "de oumstic front".
Commelt: inangural meeulng was ses for 25th June,
according to redio Pyongyang.
UN 1N 12609
(8 Ju2 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMLNT PRINTING OFFICI 194X O.B11947

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51167
RYCOM:
Political:
(c) Reaction to important events: Increased prices
of rationed goods have resulted in formation several unauth-
orized organizations in northern Ryukyus. Sakae Kenri, sus-
pected Communist, heads the "Living Protection Council" and
Nakamure Yasutaro (wife of Amami Oshimas leading Communist,
presently in jail on smuggling charge) is leader of "Womens
Living Protection Association". Toku Iketaka and Mukai Buncha
(reportedly former Japanese Comnunists) asked permission form
new political party in Amami Oshima to be called "Democratic
Party". Military Government refused permission because true
leadership not named in application.
Economic :
(A) Economic change: Typhoon damage survey by
Okinawa "Times" 11sted 1012 native homes destroyed and 2322
damaged; 242 public buildings destroyed and 152 damaged; 984
non residential buildings destroyed and 1414 damaged; recently
planted bean crop destroyed by salt spray while potato crop
must be dug up and replanted; part of rice crop being salvaged;
total damage in yen estimated by Okinawa "Times" as 30 million
yen (600,000 United States do11ars).
Source comment: Above figures believed elaggerated.
Military Government estimate of loss not yet available.
Miscellaneous:
(A) Subversive: Nakajin harbor (Katena-Ko,
Okinawa Shima. Ryukyus Retto one over 50,000)
believed replaced Itoman as Okinawa smuggling port, 10 or
more illega? vessels reported discharged passengers and geods
there since 1st June 49. Inamine Seifuku, now un or arrest
is said to be brother of Inamine Ichiro (vice pres ident of
League of Olkinavans in Japan). llegal cargo of literature
landed by Seifuky boat now believed widely seattered throughout
CM IN 12609
(2 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 0.811947

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
ESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51167
Page
Okinawa. Only sample made available for CIC examination
was "Fujin to Rodo" reportedly Communist publication.
Philippines:
Political :
(A) Important changes of contemplated changes in
government: Final status November line-up Philippines
presidential race as follows: Quirino-wing liberal party
President Elpidio Quirino, vice president Fernando Lopez,
senators Guintin Paredes, Lorenzo Sumilong. Tomal Cabili,
Justiniano Montano, Estabian Abada, and Enrique Magalona.
Avelino-wing liberal party president Jose Avelino, vice
president Vicente Francisco, senators Jose Nueno, Aurelio
Initertas, Felicidad Manuel, Salipada Pandatum, Olegario
Claren, and Mariano Garchitorena. Nacionalists end coalesced
minorities party president Jose Laurel, vice president Manuel
Briones, senators Claro Recto, Alijo Mabanag, Jose Vera, Jose
Veloso, Pedro Hermandez, Trinadad Legarda, Marcello Addura,
and Domasao Alonto.
Comnent: Qulrino selection Lopez over Mariano Cuenco
and Jose Yulo futher alienates supporters and seriously lessens
Quirino chances in important Visayan area. Laure? considerably
strengthened by Bruones Pinal acceptance vice prosidentiel
candidacy.
(B) Important domestic and foreign speeches and reaction
thereto: Coalesced minorities party officially inaugurated
Manile 19th June with 4 hours of speeches attackirg Tiberal
party. On 17th June Laurel conducted informal praes conference,
advocated establishment parliamentary form goverement. Laurel
reiterated opposition to Communism, desire emend bill trade
reletions act and depend less on United States foreign policy.
Reportee Hukbalhap reaction (1) democratic alliance, left wing
Huk orgen, Joined minorities party and (2) centrl Luzon Muks
reportedly supporting Laurel with threate of "vo e Laurel or
die"
CM IN 1.2609
(2 Jui 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENI PRINTING OFFICE 1944 O.811947

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
LASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
ESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51167
e8
Comment: Laurel, counting on support of dissident
element, will probably not include law and order problem in
campaign platform other than tacit acknowledgement that
problem exists.
(C) Reactions to important events: President Quirino's
use of emergency powers, budget and election appropriations
under attack by minorities group led by former supreme court
justice Claro Recto, who reportedly will bring plea before
supreme court requesting decision negating presidents use of
emergency powers.
Military:
(A) Changes or contemplated changes in policy: In
response appeals local citizens committees and effort curtail
dissident supply arms and ammunition interior secretary Baluyut
has ordered confiscation all loose arms and Manila poliue
department directed rescreen all previous licenses.
Source comment: Though plan admirable and necessary
it has often been attempted without success. Since promulgation
above order Manila citizens attempting to conceal or sell
individual weapons thus creating favorable opportunity for
profiteers procure arms at low price for resale to Huks.
President Quirino, Sth June, in conference with leaders
Filipino guerrilla veterans legion (FGVL), stated he had for-
warded return fares to the Block-Pamintuan mission in United
States and demanded to know why they had not returned. Guirino
further stated mission was inerfective and without official
representation and only creating debts for Philippine Embassy
in Washington. President indicated he received vire from
Ambassador Elizalde requesting recall of Block and Pamintuan.
Source comment: Reaction of Manual T Di xit, FGVI
national commander, reportedly was "this is last straw" and
"FGVI will support Avelino"
(C)
Troop movements and concentrations ineidents
CM IN 12609
(2 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194B O-B11947

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51167
and operations: Huk activity routine with continued raida
Nueva Vizcaya-Pangasinan areas. Huk units Tarlac provinoe
resuming harrassing action. Intelligence sources indioate
new Huk strategy will be devoted highway robberies and
ambushes to obtain supplies for rainy season.
Source comment: Confirmation this report would
necessitate further security measures be taken United States
convoys now forced travel through heart Huk country to supply
United States Army-Navy bases Luzon from Manila port area.
Sociological:
Manila IRO representatives secured from Philippine
cabinet 4 month extension period maintenance United Nations
evacuee camp Tubabao 1sland, Guiuan, Samar. IRO pledged
resettle remaining 5,000 refugees rate 1250 monthly.
Source comment: Resettlement 1250 monthiy improbable.
Since inception camp resettlement rate has been 20o monthly.
Only 3 countries -- Ecuador, Venezuela, and Paraguay
presently interested and only to extent 50o refugees each.
Air: (reported by FEAF):
Philippines:
Use of strafing planes against Huk concentrations
continues. As result such attacks approximately 100 alleged
Huks reported killed in Barrio Rajan Na Munti (15 degrees
27 minutes North/120 degrees 52 minutes East).
Subversive:
Philippine constabulary intelligence and customs
serviecs renewing efforts detemaine validity reeont recurring
reports of marked inerease illegal landings Chinese Reds in
Philippines.
Loyalty check all applicants for governmsuts offices
CM IN 12609
(2 Jul 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVE RNMENF PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51167
directed secretary of interior following reports muk
infiltration government offices for espionage and sabo
Japan:
613 AC1 squadron detachment, Wakkana1, reported 2150
K on 23 June 1949 sighting 1 (possibly more) powerful searoh
light epproximately 20 miles NNE off Wakkanai, Hokkaido, doing
semi-cireutar scan of coastline. Remained approx mately 15
minutes; then came back on again approximately 2338 K for 2
minutes. Determined not to have been United States naval
craft. Belicved either apanese coastal patrol vessel or
Soviet constal vessel. No aerlal observation attempted dus
to weather in arca cf sighting.
Note:
Cime 221ed 0202372.
Time ree i by Da Cryptp Senter 020s01.6z
Pime ree à bs Suo c20s1gz.
工
CM
ACDFD
.C
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
ACTION COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STAIB
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DIVISION
DISTHIBUTION BRANCH
SECRET
JUL111949
17
Action:
OLI
Red'd July 11, 1949
Info
2:00 a.m.
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Sceretary of State
NO:
0 5:293 3y 6, 1909 A my message)
JO
894.00 (W)/7-849
action Assigned to 
Aution Taken 
Date of Action
Nae o1 0
Dir utaou
H

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF Wash DC
Nr:
C 51285
JOINT WEEKA 40
8 Jul 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes
1n government: Tokyo metropolitan police announced late on
6 July that they believed Shimoyama Sadanoru, president of
the State Railway Corporation, had been murdered. Shimoyama
disappeared about 1o00, 5 July and had been the subject of
an ail out search. His mutilated and partially dismembered
body was found about Ol00, 6 July near railway tracks in a
remote Tokyo suburb. He had been run over by a train, but
police claim that the autopsy revealed that this had happened
some time after his death. Shimoyama, an engineer who had
been in the Government Railway Service all his life, recently
became head of the State Railway Corporation.
Communist dominated government railway workers
union (our radio 17 June) recently displayed increasingly
recalcitrant attitude because of impending dismissals
resulting from administrative retrenchment program, had
three times demanded reopening of negotiations regarding
dismissals. Shimoyama refused, pointing out that the unions
directives to its locals advocated use of force, at the same
time that negotiations were being discussed. Union threa-
tened general strike unless favorable answer received by
9th July. Union members had been cooperating with Communist
ied repatriates who repeatedly caused disturbances in larger
railway centers on the way to their homes from Maisuru repa-
triation center between 1st and 6th July (our radio 1 July).
Steps taken by government will minimize possibility 'of further
disturbances by repatriates while enroute home.
CM IN 13565
(8 Ju1 49)
138
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51285
JOINT WFEKA 40
Page 2
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency sagged again
after month end, fell to 295 billion by 4th July. Further
decrease expected.Coal production for June only 98.2
percent of quota. First quarter production 93.2 percent
of quota. Hard cereal delivery quotas reduced 10.8 percent
and white potato quotas reduced 14 percent.
North Korea:
Economic:
(A) Economic reform: North Korean government
established 25 acre demonstration collective farmin Pyong-
yang area (3901-12544), 49,000 and 7,350 acre collective
farms at Sepo-R1 (3838-12722) and Kyongwon (4250-13010),
respectively in spring 1949.
Comment: Previously reports indicated North
Korean regime definitely attempting to colleotivize agri-
culture. First information on operation this type farming
in Northeastern Korea indicated favoritism and inefficiency
characterized its administration. Can be expected that
North Korean government will attempt to collectivize its
entire agrarian potential. (For further details see Far
East Command daily intelligence summary 2490).
Military:
(B) Major changes in organization: North
Korean third border constabulary brigade reportedly incor-
porated into Peoples Army 1st May 49.
Comment: There is insufficient evidence to accept
above report. Previous information statedone battalion this
brigade incorporated into Peoples Army 1st May. Other recent
CM IN 13565
(8 Ju1 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 0.811947

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
ASSIFIED
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51285
JOINT WFFKA 40
reports mentioned reorganization and partial equipping or
border constabulary along tactical lines. Inclusion of
constabulary elements in Peoples Army likely step. Such
action would provide Peoples Army with valuable junot.
(C) Troop movement: Headquarters of First
Division, Peoples Army, elements of Second Battalion and
entire Third Battalion cf Second Regiment reportedly moved
rom Pyongyang to Sariwon (3830-12544) during May. Elements
First Division Artillery Regiment concurrently moved from
Pycngyang to Hwangju (3840-12546) and Headquarters and Third
Battalion of Seventh Regiment Third Division, moved from
Wonsan (3910-12726) t0 Pyongyang area (3824-12718). Head-
quarters and First Battalion, Sixth Regiment, Second Divi-
sion reportedly moved from Nanam (4142-12941) to Hamhung
(3954-12732).
Comment: These moves logical but unconfirmed.
Appears general Peoples Army consolidation of 38 parallel
areas may be under way. If reports true, movements would
place First Division Headquarters in more favorable position
for administrative and tactical control of subordinate units.
Reported movement elements Sixth Regiment possibly presages
movement remainder Second Division to Hamhung areas vacated
by Third Division. (See Far East Command daily intelligence
summary 2457).
Sociological:
A Rerad AMILAT Seou1, O10900Z, 5 July 49 per-
taining announcement "Democratic Fronts: program for unifi-
cation Korea.
Comment: South Korean officials and members of
police and armed forces who have taken action against
dissident elements apparentiy fall in category of those
"suppressing the peoples resistance". Intensificaion
CM IN 13565
(8 Jui 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194B O-811947

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SPCREI
NCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51285
JOINI WFFKA 40
publicity concerning front and its objectives is entict
psted. South worean.government expected to oppose front
vigorously since latter ls obvious attempt tolay founde
tion fcr political crists which will allow North korea
gain control ail wores without resorting to outright
arred invasion southern zone.
South xorea;
Polisical:
(c) Rescrion to important events: Rerad
Al.r/T ulc9o 2, 5 July 49 pertaining Fim Roos assasstnation.
comment: pollowing crgantzations reportedly mourn
Pims destn: Forean Tudependence Pariy, Socialist party,
representative corps of North Fcrean people, Great korean
Labocers end warmeis Party, Great vorean Youth Corps,
Forean Democpastc Parsy, New Political Society in National
aueembly, anu Nationalist society. xim Hak wyco, chief of
Organ'sasion pepertment, korean rndependenee party, repor-
Tediy jetained by police for heving assassin join party.
Kims death resulted from "individual wili of assassin"
sucoriing to ecting Chief of korean Military Police.
Assess nation of prominent south Forean leagers is one
of Communist objectives However, Communists probebly
not responsible since is is believed shey hoped to utilize
Fir te fursher communist cause
Radio pvonpyang claims
Fim killed because he deranded wi thdrawal United states
Troops, opposed 10 vay 48 elecsions, and desired unificat1on
Perao AwylaT seoul O109007. 5 July 49 persaintng
umeoys Observance unt teu ssates Troop witharewel
Commens: Subcommi stee 3 reportedly orgenized to
otserve wi thdrawal. nouttrul snes Commiesion wfil be atle
to ve ify wi shorewel sovies P.cops porn kerea.
CM IN 13565
(8 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
ASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
ESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51285
JOINT WFFKA 40
Page 5
Rerad AMILAT Seoul O10900Z, 5 July 49 pertaining
demonstration before United States Embassy Seoul.
Comment: Demonstrations are gaining in strength
and bordering on unruliness. Situation may beccme serious
if spark is furnished by Communists to incite participants
into rioting.
Rerad AMILAT Seoul 010900Z, 5 July 49 pertaining
arrest of National Assemblymen.
Comment: Kim Yak Soo, vice chairman National
Assembly, reportedly arrested 25 June.'
(B) Major changes in strength: Rerad AMILAT
Secul Ol0900, 5 July 49 pertaining armed forces strength.
Comment: Apparently government plans increase
Army strength to 100,000, as recently authorized by state
council. Reserves called to active duty may be used to
replace casualties suffered in recent Ongjin operations.
(C) Incidents: Rerad AMILAT Seoul O10900Z, 5 July
49 pertaining burning of houses by rebels.
Comment:
Rebels meeting with marked success in fire technique.
They may have infiltrated from North Korea after undergoing
intensive training in such tactics.
RYCUM:
Political:
CM IN 13565
(8 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
ESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51285
JOTNT WFEKA 40
Page 6
(A) Important changes or contemplated
changes in government, domestic and foreign policies:
Okinawes pirector of Biuchtion, Yamashiro Atsuo, reportedly
recommended by Shimajira mistrict for governor Okinawa. If
nominated Yamashir will substatially reduce changes of
Okinawa Director Public Works Matsuoka Seihoand Okinawa
Agricultural Association President Taira Tatsuo, both
aandidates from same district.
(C) Reaction to important events: on 2 July
neeting held at Koza by Okinawa Central District Mayors,
Agricultural Association Chiefs, and heads of youth groups
to protest recent kyco directive restricting native
construction within 1 mile military installations.
Second meeting scheduled 5 July.
Source Cor ent: Modification subject directive under
consideration by RYcom.
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government, domestic and foreign policies: A member
Malacanan executive office and also adviser to president.
stated Quirino had hoped make United States trip before
elections in order improve political stature and prove high
standing among United States officials. Source states
Quirino now apprehensive lest such trip prove 111 advised
in view apparent lack of interest United States cireles
indicated by press and Philippines sources.
Source Comment: In early 1949 Quirino advisers
devoted considerable effort sound out United States observers
regarding political expediency of Quirino trip to United
States. Now Quirino advisers believe trip not opportune.
National Defense Secretary Ruperto Kangleon added to
Quirino-Wing Liberal Party senatorial slate. Leading candidates
C.4 IN 13565
(8 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
US GOVERNMENT PHINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51285
JOINT WEEKA 40
Page 7
co replace Kangleaon as Defense Secretary are Major General
Mariano Castenada, National Defense Forces Chief of Starr;
and Major General Guillermo Francisco, Peace and order adviser
to the President and constnbulary chief during Japanese
cccupation.
Source Comment: Francisco changes slim because of his
occupation activity and Quirinos election policy of
dencuncing traitor.
Avelino-Wing Liberal Party without complete tioket.
Avelino still negotiating with former mterior Secretary
Jose Zulueta to complete senatorial roster and gain veterans
backing controlled by Zulueta. Nationalista ticket unchanged.
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes and
reforms: Commerce and Industry Secretary Cornelio Balmaceda
announced 25 June that 6 month period after promulgation import
onitr:1 1aw netted Philippines 53,250,000 pesos. Balmaceda
rcred he has recommended additional items be placed import
core list and hopes double above figure in next 6 months.
Sociological:
Police probe body submitted 10 point recommendation
ci ding: pay increase; rank standardization; cancellation
honorary and temperary appointments; and abolition vice squad.
This reportedly first step in rebuiiding police organization
Manila with strese  freedon from political influence.
pe Me: police clhief Eduardo Quintcs bttterly opposes
recommendations. Repertedly Quintos soon will launch himself
as candidate congressman Pangasinan Prevince in effort to
force presidential assurance that recommendations for Quintos
price support of Quirinc ommpaign be neglected.
Air: (reported by FEAF):
CM IN 13565
(8 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51285
JOTNT WETKA 40
Page8
Philippines:
New Niohels Field runway virtually completed 25 June at
cost 5 Million pesos.
Note:
Time filed 080449z.
Time rec d DA Cryptc Center 080853z.
Time rec'a Sc0 080903z.
Note: 0109002 10 04 1N 12759 (4 J01 49) IL
AC110N: ID
INFO: AF, CAD, NLIVY, PG, STAI
CA IN 13565
(8 01 49) 190 0804492 m16/c
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.97)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
8
INCOMING TELEGRAM
Action:
OLI
SECRET
Info:
E
P
FE
POS
Rec'd July 18, 1949
DCR
1 a.m.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTHIBUTION
DIWSION
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
JUL181949
FFOM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C 51461, July 17 (Army Message)
894.00 (W)/7-1749
JOINT WEEKA 41, FrOM JAA
Action laken
Act:on
of Cfricer.
HH

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRFT
PARAPHRASF NOT RPQUIRFD
From: CINCFF Tokyo Japan from JAA
To : Dept of Army for CSGID
Info: USAF
Nr : C 51461
JOINT WFFKA 41
17 Jul 49
Japan;
political;
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government; Government making preparations to hold Diet
session somewhat earlier than originally planned, due to
demands of opposition parties. Democratic-Liberal party
announces extensive plans for formation of nation wide anti-
communist youth League. shimoyama murder still unsolved,
Government perpares to offer one mill'on ven reward for
information leading to solution. First round of dismissals
of employees of state railways finished without organized
resistance, second round begins.
pconomic;
(A) Fconomic changes: After falling 9 billion yen
in first week currency recovered slightly, stood et 293
billion llth July. Bank of Japan reduces interest rates
on loans to city banks to encourage latter to advance funds
to industrial enterprises. Japanese government states rice
on hand as of 1st July totals 78,000 tons 1n distribution
inventories and 371.000 tons in reserve.
South Korea;
political;
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Government; Rerad AMILAT Seoul 080830z, 10th July 49 per-
CM IN 15300
(17 Ju1 49)
26
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAM 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
C 51461
JOINT WEEKA 41
Page 2
taining Assemblys improved attitude toward Executive
Branch.
Comment: Apparently Assemblys ardor for mass resigna-
tion President Rhees cabinet has subsided. US troop w.th-
drawal may have caused legislators to realize that cooperation
between executive and legislative branches necessary to avoid
critical situation. Change of attitude may pave way for
passage important measures constituting large legislative
Dacklog. Election Yun Chi Yung as Vice Chairman National
Assembly may have ill effect on Assembly since Yun is alarmist
in handling rumors concerning North Korea. Assembly election
of Yun possibly intended to appease Rhee.
Rerad AMILAT Seoul 080830Z, 10th July 49 pertaining
UNCOKS message to UN General Assembly stating commission
verified US troop withdrawal.
Comment: Believed UNCOK has fulfilled UN General
Assemblys 12th December 48 resolution as far as possible
in view of threatening letters to UNCOK members and
probable ultimate realization they cannot contack leading
personalities North Korea to complete remainder of mission,
possibility exists members unofficially will wash hands of af-
fairs and wait out expiration date of commission.
Military:
(B). Major changes in organization and strength:
Rerad AMiLAT Seoul 080830Z, 10th July 49 pertaining Armed
Forces strengths.
Comment: Substantial inerease in Army and Army
Reserve strengths indicates Republic making vigorous effort
to build up Armed Forces. Army probably will utilize added
personnel in present units including recently activated
capital and Eighth Divisions. Army reserve probably being
increased to provide General reserve in case of National emer-
gency, and to supply manpower to Army through medium of placing
reservist of active duty. Army Reserve strength has supassed
authorized
CMIIN 15300
(17 Jui 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 51461
JOINT WFFKA 41
strength of 30,000?(See GHQ FEC de1ly 1ntellegence summary
?41?). government possibly aims at reserve strength goal of
100,000, originally planned but not guthorized.
North Korea;
Military; (B) Changes in euuipment: Undetermined
number US-made trucks delivered North Korea from Hóngkong
June 49. Trucks were for Peoples Army. Soviets shipped:
34 tanks to Hungnam 19th February. Tanks later sent Pyong-
vang (3901-12544) by rai1. Six aircraft undetermined types
del'vered to Pyongyang Airfield from USSR th June.
Comment; Reports-ef low evaluation but, considered
with other recent reports, possibly indicate implementation
Soviet aid pact reported previously (See FEC daily intelligence
Bummary 2437).
(C) Troop movements and operations; Peoples Army
General Headguarters reportedly formulated plans 16th June
for capture in seguence of Ongjin (3756-12522) and Kaesong
(3758-12634).
Comment; Recent Ongjin Peninsula action could be
considered implementation reported plans, although it is
believed that North Korean Forces involved were principal
Constabuiary. Ongjin fighting and above report will
be regarded as coincidence until evidence indicates other-
wise. Plan to attack Kaesong possible. Attack would give
North Koreans further Opportunity to gauge South Korean
Arm s combat potentialities. Major deterring factor would
be danger that such and attack might cause civil war. Be-
1ieved that North Korea dees not want war until political
means have been exploited in effort to gain control all
Korea. Current emphasis being placed on "Democratic Front"
strong indication of validity this theory (See CINCFE WEEKA
40, 7th July 1949).
CM IN 15300
(17 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
C 514161
JOINT WEEKA 41
Page 4
Unidentiried battalion of Peoples Army Second
Division moved to Chorwon (3814-12712) Apri1 49.
Comment: This is second unconfirmed report conoerning
movement elements second Division to areas nearer 38th parallel.
Logical that entire division wil be moved southward prior to
any future 1nvasion South Korea. However, such movement would
not necessarily mean that civil war would soon follow.
Peoples Army independent mixed bridgade reportedly
moved to Pyongyang 20th May.
Comment: Evidence insufficient to warrant acceptance
this movement. Recently reported movement elements First
Division from Pyongyang, if true, would vacate division size
area in and near that city (See FEc Daily Intelligence
Summary 2487). This area could be utilized by the Independent
mixed Brigade for training and possible expansion to division.
(See FEC Daily Intelligence Summary 2448).
Rerad AmEmbassy Seoul, 060311z, 10th July 49 pertain-
ing South Korean report of Soviets Commanding North Korean
units in Ongjin incident.
Comment: Reliable G-2 FEC source stated his belief
that Soviets have not participated in command status with
North Korean Forces and has received report that Korean
Minister of Defense instituted the press release, probably
motivate by South Koreas desire for additional Us Military
aid. Believed here that adverse political repercussions
potentially attendant upon participation Soviet personnel in
command positions would outweigh any advantages to be gained,
particularly in this relatively small scale engagement.
Phillippines:
(a). Important changes or contemplated changes
in Government, domestic and foreign policies;
CM IN 15300
(17 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 514161
JOINT WEEKA 41
Page 5
President Chiang Kai Shid arrived Baguio 1Oth July
No official information purpose visit. Philippines
press reports indicate purpose discuss with President
Quirino common front against Communism and plan es-
tablishment Chinese Government in exile.
(b). Important domestic and foreign speeches
and reaction thereto: Quirino 4th July address ex-
pounded merits his administration and denounced
critics attempting detract from gains in fields:
(1). Justice and sociai mprovement;
(2). Peace and order. Quirino reiterated
Filipino-US ties and promises of future coopera-
tion
Reaction reportedly lukewarm. Most
listers reportedly regarded address political
haranguenot appropriate for Independence Day
(é).
Reaction to important events: Major
politicai parties engaged campaign tours in Visayan
and Luzon Provinces. Internal dissension again
threatens Quirino-Wing Liberal Party because of
reported ill-advised Quirino use of cpponents collabora-
tion record in campaign issues. Revival collaboration
debate backfired when. several members Quirino ticket,
notably Quentin Paredes former member Laurels Occupa-
tion Government, announced they would desert Quirino
Wing unless collaboration issue dropped
Nacionalistas
in retaliation Quirino attack reportedly presented
proofs Quirino served occupation government and was
involved lrregular dealings during cccupation. Avelino
Wing content let Quirino and Nacionalistas fight out
collaboration to mutual regret and resultant inerease
Avelino prestige.
Military:
CM IN 15300
(17 Jui 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 514161
JOINT WEEKA 41
Page 6
(c). Troops movements and concentrations, inoidente
and operations: Hutpalahap activity negligible with reported
minor clashes Nueva Ecija, Bulacan, and Luguna Provinces.
Manila press reports Huk strength Manila doubled although
not confirmed by Philippines Security Sources. Slight
increase noted Chinese Communist activity
Report of plans for US Naval Operation with assignment
8 destroyers, 1 submarine in Philippines fevorable received.
Philippines official sources believed gunnery and sea train-
ing areas along Luzon coast will discourage arms and alien
smuggling Luzon areas
Subversive:
226 1llegal Chinese entrants, recently apprehended
Quezon Province, departed Manila 9th July for Amoy, China,
by Philippine Naval patro1 vessel. Constabulary G-2 acting
on information furnished by Tan Ham, alleged smuggler of
aliens, hopes complete cases against 7 smuggling rings operat-
1ng Visayas, Mindanao, and Luzon. Tan Ham information
reportedly implicates Quezon Prcvince Governor Gregorio San-
tayana. Report unknown scurce in possession G-2 PC implicates
Presidents Brother, Judge Antionio Quirino.
RYCOM:
Political:
(B). Important domestic and foreign speeches and
reaction thereto: Okinawa civil administration (OCA) offi-
ciais opened second series information lectures at Ishikawa,
Oklnawa, 9th July 49
Prineipal speakers are Yamashiro
Otsuo (Okinawa Education Director), Ashitiami Chose, Higa
Shuei, Miyazato Katshup, end Funakoshi Shobu.
Comment: OCA speaking tours Okinawa commenced 1 June
49 to combat erroneous information disseminated by unscrupu-
lous politicians.
CM IN 15300
(27 Jui 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.99)
ICLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 514161
JOINT WEEKA 41
Page 7
At recent meeting Youth Association Presddent
Nagahama Soan denied his organization political in nature
and pledged association support to Military Government
Anrloca in reconstruction Okinawa and intellectual advance-
ment people.
Miscellanous:
Subversive:
2 Okinawa exchange students sponsored by Hawai1 Kosei
Kai (Hawalian Relief and Rehabilitaion Foundation) disatis-
fied at treatment by Okinawa Kose1 Kai Executive Secretary
Wikukaw Seiyei. Both state Wakukawa seeking personal
publicity at expense osei Kai.
Comment: Previous reports alleged Wakukawa Communist
sympathizer.
Gushi Yasuo and 9 associates, Herdsmen and Kosei Kai
members, carried 671 letters from Okinawans to addressees
Hawali when boarded USAT Gen Gaffey 3th July for return
Hawaii
Letters confiscated by customs and turned over Cic
for possible intelligence interest. Letters being forwarded
G-2, GHQ, FEC for examination and disposition.
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Japan:
1 of 2 USAF CaptainsropL.eivi..g jommunist demonstrators
welcoming repatrlates Nagoya railway staior jostled by 1 CP
demonstrator. After being stopped by AF Officer. demonstrator
reported to have deliberately continued to push and flail
his arms, striking officer who then subdued the man and
turned him over to Japanese police. Man identified as Kazuo
Wajima.
CM IN 15300
(17 Jul 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C 514161
JOINT WEEKA 41
Page 8
MARBO:
Submarine reportediy sighted at 1600k, 4th July 49,
off south end Guam (130 degrees 18 minutes north, 144
degrees 39 minutes east) on heading 315 degrees. Sighting
verified by 4 different individuals, 3 of whom had binoculars
and stated object was definitely submarine. Naval authorities
contacted verified fact no US Naval submarines in vicinity.
Philippines:
Two fisherman interviewed by OSI agent reported
seeing object w1th lights dive into Manila Bay (14 degrees
46 minutes north, 120 degrees 29 minutes east) 26th June
49. This may have been the T-6 aircraft reported lost that
date. No floating wreckage sighted. US Navy giving complete
cooperation in search and commencing diving operations in
area
ACTION: ID
INFO
: AF. NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 15300
(27 Ju1 49) DTG: 170442z
dwn/D
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
i.3
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
17
Rec'd July 29, 1949
Action
OLI
2 a.m.
Info:
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
S cretary of State
PO
C 51579. July 23(A my Message)
Z  WO. 42
894.00/7-2
ction Assigned to 
Action Taken
Alon
Nano of uff loer
4
6
Direotion to o 
工
H
LFILES WITH

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
ASSIFIED
SECRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID; pass to USAF
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
23 Ju1 49
Subject is Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 42.
Japan. Political:
(A). Important changes or contemplated changes in
government:
Dismissal of surplus employees of government
railways practically completed without serious disorders.
Many Communist leaders discharged resulting in disorganiza-
tion of leadership of government railway workers union,
and rise of moderate democratization league within union.
Two Communist ex-employees arrested in connection with
Mitake disaster, in which empty, unmanned electric train
ran away, killing 8 and wounding many more 15th Jul.
Communist party repeatedly denies any connection with
unsolved Shimoyama murder or Mitaka incident, issues formal
warning to government 19th Jul that workers cannot be
responsible for future acts of sabotage. Visit of Japanese
diet members to US (CINCFE rad WEEKA number 39, 1st Jul)
indefinitely postponed.
Economic:
(A). Economic changes: Currency issue lowest
since Oct 48, stands at 285 billion yen as of 20th Jul.
Crop prospects considered excellent.
South Koree:
Military:
(A). Changes or contemplated changes in policy:
Rerad AMILAT Seoui 150900Z 16th Jul 49 pertaining Nat1onal
Assemblys passage Military Service Act.
CM IN
16538
(23 Jul 49)
111
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICF 1948 O-811947

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
LASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Page2
Comment:
Presicent Rhee probably will sign bill and promulgate
law since he is strong advocate of large army. North
Korea's radio Pyongyang and South Korean Communists prob-
ably will berate measure despite fact conscription of
sorts exists in North Korea. Measure provides ready means
for expanding army on short notice.
(B). Major changes or contemplated changes in
commanc and trength: Rerad AMILAT Seou1 150900z 16th
Jul 49 pertaining armed forces strength.
Commer t:
Korean army will peach authorized strength of
100,000 before 15th Aug 49 1f 1t continues present rate
of expansion. Overall armed forces strength has increased
more than 15, 000 since US troop withdrawa1. A11 of in-
crease has occurred in army and army reserve corps.
(c). Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and operatiors: Rerad AMILAT Seoul 150900z 16th Ju1 49
pertaining re duction gmerrilla activity Che ju Island.
Commere:
Redue lon guerrilla activity Che ju Island attributed
largely to Gol Yu Jai mmns. who was sent Che Ju 2nd Mar
49 es overell tesk forse commander armed forces on island.
First Separeto Infentry Battelion, which replaces Second
Reglment, is cubordinate to Capital Division. Army plans
to bring Separate Bato lion up to strength by recruiting
Cheju Taland nativee.
North Korea:
Militerys
CM IN 16538
(23 3m1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Page 3
(c). Troop concentrations, incidents, operationss
Additional reports concerning Chinese Communists in North
Korea state leaders platoons or larger units sent 38th
parallel areas are CCF personnel.
Comment:
Logical that some CCF troops present in North
Korea but reports too fragmentary to permit estimate of
number. If above report true, assigning presumably com-
bat experienced leaders to 38th parallel units should
definitely 1mprove combat potential such units.
Headguarters and Second Battalion of Second Reg1-
ment, First Division, Peoples Army reported at Sariwon
(3830-12544) on 18th May.
Comment:
Prevous unconfirmed report mentioned movement First
Division Headquarters and elements Second Regiment from
Pyongyang to Sariwon.
2. New reoples Navy guard boats launched at
Chinnampo (3844-12524) during per1od Mar-May 49. Vessels
of 200 ton displacement, 600 horsepower.
Comment:
Ship building at Chinnampo for Peoples Navy re-
ported previously. Believed that Chinnampo Shipyard Con-
struction capacity limited to 300 ton steel, 500 ton
wooden vessels.
Psychological:
Personnel of South Korean units which defected to
North Korea 5th May (see FEC daily intell summary 2433)
CM IN
16538
(23 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O.811947

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Page4
were incorporated into Peoples Army llth Jul, according
to radio Pyongyand. Minister National Defense Kim Tong
Hun officiated at induction ceremony.
Comment:
Information on disposition and use of these former
Korean Army troops not yet available. Publicizing their
induction into Peoples Army apparently designed solely
for propaganda purposes. This is first report that Kim
Tong Hun 1s Minister National Defense, replacing Tchei
Yung Gun.
Philippines:
Political:
(C). Reactions to important events: Mixed re-
actions in Philippines to Quirino-Chiang Kai-Shek talks
continue, as additional details forthcoming. Senatorial
candidate Claro M Recto leads minority group denunciation
of talks as prelude to Philippines involvement in Chinese
War. Congress labor organizations and Philippine Communist
party leaders responsible for leftist castigation Quirino
Chiang, Rhee as US Charlie McCarthys. public opinion stiil
generally split over value of meeting. Acting Senate
President Mariano Cuenco, Senator Melekio Arranz, other
members Quirino wing epprehensive over meeting. They
indicate presentation to senate for ratification any
treaty, pact between Philippines, China will be voted
down. This contention strengthened by quick survey
among available senators, although many indicate they
will support Pacific Pact provided philippines not com-
mitted support Chiang with arms, dollars. Avelino group
withholding statement until public opinion gauged.
Comment:
CM IN 16538
(23 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Page 5
Quirino-Chiang-Rhee axis furthers mutual aims, in-
divicual ambitions. Has aspect of possibly forcing Us
hand, but could establish framework for desirable anti-
Communist front against communist China.
Major political party leaders allegedly recruiting
thugs and using strong-arm tactics to control votes in
provinces, particularly ivelino followers in Visayas and
Mindanao. Central Luzon Huks promise violence to pro-
Quirinists. Quirino propaganda to date based largely
promises cash and job awards.
Military:
(C). Troop movements and concentrations: Huk
situation passive. Provinces Nueva Ecija, Nueva Vizcaya,
Pagasinan, Pampanga remain focal point anti-Huk operations.
Delayed rainy geason give dissidents further opportunity
forage supplies prior seasonal retreat mountain hideouta.
Manila lew enforcement agencies unable confirm report
(ref CINCFE WEEKA 41, 16th Ju1 49) that Man1la Huk strength
doubled.
Subversive:
Man1le Police Department (MpD) investigation con-
firm marked increase Chinese Communist activities Manila
and environs. Public incensed over Chinese smuggling
rings following arrests Chinese dope and arms peddlers.
Cases allegedly involve top Chinese and Filipino leaders.
Agents on cases fear top-level political interference
block further proceedings. MPD claims concrete evidence
involvement Quezon Province Covernor Gregorio Santayana
recent Tan Ham smuggling case. Promises investiagtions
will expoce Malacanan executive office employee as leader
smuggling ring and Huk supporter.
CM IN 16538
(23 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Paga 6
RYCOM:
Political:
(C). Reaction to important events: Resident CIC
agent in Amami Oshima (2819-12925) reports political
situation northern Ryukyus growing steadily worse. Gover-
nor, vice-governor, and department heads provisional
civil government reportedly have prepared resignations
for submission to military government. Anti-US feeling
in Naze reported to be increasing.
Source comment:
Reason for above action by civil officials is
their inability cope with deteriorating economy. Reliable
informant states people certain areas actually suffering
hunger as result of food shortage caused by unseasonable
rains and typhoon Della.
Comment:
Report concerning political situation and anti-
American feeling may be exaggerated. G-2 RYCoM 1s making
personal investigation of situation. Results will be
forwarded.
Military:
(C). Incidents and operations: Japanese PW escaped
Apr 45 surrendered recently to military police, stating
he had lived in hills Onnadake, Kunigawi (2726-12843) with
2 other escaped PWs. PW states companions still hiding
and possess rifles, bayonets, pistols. Subject has volunteer-
ed to lead military police to hideout.
Air:
CM IN
16538
(23 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1845
U.GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Page 7
(Reported by FEAF).
Korea:
Approximately 1235 hours, 10th Ju1 49, 1 North
Korea reconnaissence type aircraft (Japanese) reportedly
violated 38th parallel at point near Yesong River east of
Paekchon (3800-12618).
A1rcraft, twin-engine, dark green, reported flying
at altitude approximately 650 feet. plane returned
North Korea and shortly thereafter was observed dropping
North Korean pamphlets over Paekchon area. Aircraft
then returned North Korea. Full details and contents
pamphlets presently unknown but efforts being made secure
samples.
Philippines:
Subversive:
In addition reported PC killing 121 alleged Huks
between 10th snd 15th Jul, 25 more reportedly killed in
Candaba swamps east of Clark Field during PC operation
"Tampol".
Approximately 100 Huks reportedly raided San Juan,
Sta. Ana, Pampanga (1505-12046). One Huk hosp1tal re-
portedly discovered in San Isidro, San Luis, Pampanga
(1502-12047), with ample medicinai supplies and equipment.
During recent raid on small Darrio (village) near
Clark Field, small children were allegedly observed being
carrled off to hills by Huks.
Huk con erence held early Jul. Believed Huk leaders
have gone to respeetive "spheres of influence" to inform
CM IN 16538
(23 Ju2 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194- O.811947

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C-51579
WEEKA 42
Page 8
Huk members of agreements reached. Huk offensive is re-
portedly expected outcome this conference.
Manila Mayor De La Fuente reportedly in receipt
2 reports, 1 allegedly revealing meeting place of Chinese
Communists and Huks at Rizal Avenue extension, the other
identity of master-mind in Quezon ambush.
Huk training school, "Stalin University" reportedly
locate near Laur, Nueva Ec1ja province (1540-12112).
School included hospital unit, classrooms, barracks of
typical native construction. Installation reportedly
destroyed during PC operation "supercharge" in early June.
Guam:
Subversive:
One red flare reportedly sighted 3oo degrees bearing
from Orote control tower (1326-14438) 11th Ju1 49 at 02292.
Flight control 19th Bomb Wing dispatched airoraft with
negative results as to source flares. Search patrols
established for different periods over area. Navy NI
denied responsibility for flares.
Note:
Time Ree'd 2307272
Time f1led DA Crypto Center 2309232
Time
Ree ' d Sc0 231053z
Not-: 39 1s CM IN 12609 (2 Ju1 49), ID.
1509002 1s CM IN 15317 (16 Ju1 49). 1D.
41 19 CM IN 15300 (17 J1 49), ID.
ACTION:
ID
INFO:
AF, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN
16538
(23 Ju1 19) D10:
2307272
fmb/1
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECÔRDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEFAHTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTHIBUHON
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DIVISION
SECRET
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
8
AUG 1-1949
Action: OLI
nfo:
E
Rec'd August 1, 1949
P
1 a.m.
EUR
PE
CO
POS
DCR
894.00(W)/7-2949
Toky
Seeretory cf State
C 51692 Ju1y 29 (Army Mensage)
OF T EEKA 4 FPOM CINCFE
-9/6/49
.  
Nawe of Urficer 
S
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SÉCRET
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info: USAF
Nr:
C 51692
JOINT WEEKA 43
29 Ju1 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Government hopes to comp1 dismissal surplus
employees by 15 Aug. Government Railway Workers Union
remains split into three factions, little prospect
resumption of Communist leadership. Cabinet plans to
compl drafting of government legislation to be submit-
ted to forthcoming special Diet session by 10 Aug.
Judiciary Committee of lower house directly accuses
Communist Party of attempting create social unrest,
first time in Diet's history any such charge made
against political party.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency issue rising
sl1ghtly at months end, stood at 293,000,000,000
26 Jul." Coal production for first three weeks Jul
indicates that months quota will be exceeded.
North Korea:
Economic:
(B) Foreign economic developments: Installation
of 30 Lathes Pyongyang (3902-12548) arsena1 reportedly
completed 30 Jun 49, replacing like number previously
CM IN 17708
(30 Ju1 49)
11U
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 0.811947

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51692
Page 2
in use. Source heard arsenal will produce mortars,
small arms, small arms ammunition, artillery shells.
As of 7 Jun arsenal had produced only undetermined
quality revolvers; concentrated on arms repair. Five
hundred Soviet technicians and skilled laborers entered
North Korea from USSR to work in arsenals at Pyongyang,
Kan-N1 (3908-12542), Yongsong (3907-12547), and M1rim-
N1 (3902-12550). Source stated first two plants operat-
ing. Other two in assembly stages.
Comment: Other reports have stated at
Pyongyang arsenal producing undetermined quantities
Soviet-type sub-machine guns, rifles, and small arms
ammunitions. However, there is no concrete evidence
to disprcve belief that North Korea remains depen-
dent upon USSR for small arms and ammun1tion.
Military:
(C) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and operations: Approx 3,O00 troops reportedly observed
1n area of Peoples Army Tank Jnit Pyongyang 15 Jun-10
Jul. Equip observed included 17 T-34 tanks, 8 T-70
tanks, 12 self-propelled guns, 23 antitank guns, and
13 82 MM mortars. Field tng, including tanks and self-
propelled guns reportedly began 6 Jul in hills south of
tank units area. Tng still in progress 10 Jul. (For
details see General Hq, FEC daily 1nt summary 2514).
Comment: Number of troops reported believed
more than double estimated number assigned to
Peoples Army Tank Unit. Previous report of 18
Peoples Army tanks at Haeju (3802-12542) consid-
ered with above repert tends to support possibil-
ity armor being used in combined arms exereises
in Pyongyang and Haeju aeas.
From 120 to 180 Peoples Army casualties transported
northward from Ongjin Peninsula 8-25 June. Source
belived dead and wounded had partlcipated recent Ongjin
incident.
CM IN 17708
(30 Jui 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF'THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51692
Page 3
Comment: Although Peoples Army troops have
been reported as engaging Ongjin fighting, con-
firmation their participation not received. Many
times in past Security Forces troops have been
mistakenly identified as Peoples Army personnel
by Korean observera. This may be the case in this
instance.
Peoples Army Independent Mixed Brigade moved from
Chinnamio (3844-12524) to Pyongyang 20 Jun and redes1g-
nated Fourth Division.
Comment: Although report mentions only
redesignation of brigade, change presumably would
not be made unless expansion to division were not
also contemplated. Expansion this unit to divi-
sion size reported previously but not confirmed.
(See General Headquarters, FEC daily int summary
2448). Recent reports of former Chinese Communist
troops being incorporated into Peoples Army and
reports of extensive recruiting, together with
above report, generally support earlier information
concerning Peoples Army expansion. (See General
Headquarters, FEC da1ly int summary 2478).
Unidentified Peoples Army company moved from Nanam
(4142-12941) to Chorwon (3814-12712) 11 Jun. Troops
were combat veterans from Manchuria who joined Peoples
Army at Nanam. Undetermined quantities ammunition and
weapons shipped by rail from Nanam to Pokkye-RI (3826-
12716) 16 Jun. Approx 1,000 troops and 20 freight cars
loaded with weapons and vehicles of Fifth Regiment,
Peoples Army Second Division reportedly moved from Nanam
to Wonsan (3910-12726) during period 26-29 May 49.
Movement executed at night.
Comment: There is insufficient evidence to
indicate that elements Second Division, stationed
at Nanam, have moved southward but this report
supplements previously reported information of
such movement. (See General Headquarters, FEC
da1ly int summary 2487).
CM IN 17708
(30 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51692
Page 4
South Korea:
Military:
(B) Major changes or contemplated changes in
comd and organization: Rerad AMILAT Seoul 220900z
23 Jul 49 pertaining promotions of Army officers.
Comment: Promotions for general officers
frozen as of 16 Jul apparently by President Rhee
deferring action on promotion list (see General
Headquarters, FEC daily int summary 2505).
Kim Song Soo and Suh Jong Hi, National Assembley-
men, reportedly organizing "Military Association", simi-
lar to G-2 Korean Army, for purpose gathering informa-
tion about North Korean Army and internal conditions as
prerequisite to forming plan for unification North-South
Korea.
Comment: Formation such organization may
result in bickering between Army and Assembly 1f
Army accuses legislators of encroaching on their
prerogative. Believed new organization will add
useless expense to government since Army probably
can furnish desired information.
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Reactions
proposed Pacific Union mixed. Nacionalista Party
spokesman Claro M Recto and Presidential Candidate
Jose Avelino state Pacific Union advisable only if US
backing assured. Both criticize Quirino for pushing
pact in face reportedly cool US sentiment. Recto fur-
ther states economie collaboration presages arms and
material support for China. Philippines Foreign Office
preparing for return United Nations Ambassador Carlos P
Romulo charged formulation proposed Pacific Pact.
CM IN 17708
(30 J1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51692
Page 5
Political benefit accruing Quirino as result Chiang
meeting reportedly includes support local Chinese on
order Kuomintang. Chinese in addition direct votes
will exert influence on Filipino friends and in Chinese-
dominated financial circles.
Minority party claims presidential interference
with Supreme Court decision regarding President's use
emergency powers. Quirino group denies charge although
Quirino privately assured Acting Senate President Marian
Cuenco, weakening Quirino adherent. that cour: action
would be favorable. Minority and Avelinistas banking on
considerable number Quirino defections next few months,
including Cuenco, Labor Undersecretary Jose B Figureas,
and Jose B Yulo. Fight foreseen in allocation poll
inspectors result Quirino group maintaining 1llegaility
Avelino-wing Liberal.Party.
Col A G Gabriel, Chief recently formed National
Int Coordinating Agency (NICA), complains agency opera-
tion complicated by political pressure, lack of secrecy,
admitted lack coordination in other governmental agen-
cies, insufficient funds, lack trained personnel.
Gabriel hopes US instructors be detailed train NICA per-
sonnel.
Military:
(c) Troop movements, incidents and operations:
Slight increase Huk activity past week principally Nueva
Ecija Province. Constabulary G--and National Defense
Forces G-2 attempting confirm statements captured Huk
officers that Huks planring Executive Palace incident
last week Jul and preparing general offensive in Oct.
Captive state that rad communication China and Kremlin
is preparing way for Chinese and Soviet material aid
to Huks near future.
Source comment: Palace incident possible.
Reports Oct offensive occur annually at this time;
then, in Oct, change to Spring offensive. Oct
CM IN 17708
(30 Jui 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIC1 194R O.811947

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51692
Page 6
desirable for Huk offense because end rainy season
and pre-election confusion. Report of rad contaot
with Chine, Moscow oft-repeated, thus far never
proved.
Miscellaneous:
(A) Subversive: Philippine int agencies intens1-
fying investigation local Chinese Communist s:ivities
in view report Chinese Red coup Philippines late 49.
Investigation Tan Ham alien smuggling ring impiicates
additional Quezon Province officials, including Con-
gressman Tomas Morato, several constabulary officers
(CINCFE WEEKA 41). Manila police dept attempting
locate Co Hian Siang reportediy new arrival Chinese
Communist community alleged Moscow-trained to lead
Philippines Chinese Communists.
RYCOM:
Political report:
(C) Reactions to important events: Re CINCFE
WEEKA 42, RYCOM Pol1tical, (C), results G-2 RYCOM
investigations not received. Report of findings will
be forvarded immediately upon conclusion. Interim
report Military Govt states unrest due unorganized
Communists using food shortage, wages, ceiling prices
as propaganda. No definite anti-US feeling general
population. G-2 RYcoM states no action taken resigna-
tions Provisional Government officials. Resignation
governor urged by Living Protection Association for
failure solve economic situation.
Governor request
Military Government for reduetlon prices rationed
goods and inerease rehabilitation budget rejected.
Sociological report.
Military Goverumens reports 8oo tons food to be
shipped northern Ryukyus alleviate crop shortage, popu-
lation adjustment.
Measures being taken on food price
CM IN 17708
(30 Ju1 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194R O-B11947

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
C 51692
Page 7
ceilings. Unseasonal rains, typhoon destruction
caused undue crop shortage. Nost crop not due until
Sept.
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Philippines:
At 1930 hours, 19 Jul, C-45 p11oted by member 13th A1r
Force was fired on from gound by 50-caliber tracers just before
entering Clark Air Force Base pattern at 35oo feet. No damage
reported
Following allegedly revealed by former Huk squadron
commander after surrender to Philippine Constabulary  authori-
ties: Hukbalahaps constitute Communist organization, linked
with USSR, whose objective overthrowing present government.
Reported presence Huks in provinces other than those
central Luzon indicates renewed attempt expansion with view
influencing Nov 49 elections in favor Laurel. PC Provincial
Command Pampanga has alerted troops and contemplates imposi-
tion curfew at first sign disorder.
Location "Stalin University" further defined as being
in heights Mt Guiniat, Nueva Ecija (15-40N, 121-12E). At
"University" Huk recruits allegedly taught rudiments of Com-
munism and military tactice.
Guam:
What appeared to be white flare was sighted lo05z,
21 Jul 49, from Orote contro1 towes (13-26N, 144-38E).
Source comment: This is fifth sighting this
nature, all within five-day cycle of each other and
between hours of 1oooz and 13ooz. Ai1 efforts to
identify above sightings of no avail.
CM IN 17708
(30 Jul 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194R O.811947

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.89)
SECRET
OLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 8
Nr:
C 51692
Note:
F11ed 290929z.
Rec 'd DA Crypto Center 2913522.
Rec 'a sco 291358z.
Note
2209007 19 0M N 6507 183 J01) 12.
IE CN IN 5300
7 J:0
42 18 6538 (03 )
AGDION: ID
1NFO
AF. HAVT. PO. S2APE
30 242
0 2909292 e9/A
3M IN 17708
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1944 - O-811947

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
ACTION COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
17
Action:
OLI
Rec'd August 8, 1949
Info:
2 a.m.
0
HON
FE
POS
FROM:
Tobyc
ANCH
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
C 51809, August 5, (Army message)
WEEKA NO. 44
AA
894.00(W)/8-54
Aation Atoned to
Actio
n
D.
ion
Act on
549
SECRET

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To 3: Dept of Army for CSGID
Info: CSUSAF Wash DC
Nr :
C-51809
5 Aug 49
Subject is Joint Army -Air WEEKA number 44.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
governmont: Governments stirf ing attitude toward commu-
nists illustrated by two large-scale police raids, first on
1 Aug on ofrices of partys organ, the "Akahata" (Red Flag)
newspaper, in Tokyo, based on charges that newspapers person-
nel were guilty of illegal sale of newsprint, which is rationed.
Second raid in Kobe on 2nd Aug included Communist party head-
quartera and homes of many leading Communists. Many arrests
made. Seven more ex-employees of railways arrested in con-
nection with Mitaka disaster (see CINCkE WEEKA number 42).
All are Communist party members, police indicate that actual
perpetrators of crime are among nine persons arrested so far,
predict early solution of case. Examination committee of
lower house grills leading Communists, including Diet members,
concerning their connection with minor agrarian disorders.
thimoyame case still unsolved (see CINCFE WEEKA number
)。
Latcet repatriates from Siberia continue display
inereasing recalcitrent attitude which delays disombarkation.
Enroute to homes they join local Communis: factions to par-
ticlpete in apeoches, sit-down tactics and nuisance activi-
ties.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Curreney stood at 295 billion
yen at end Jul, representing net contraction of five billion
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
107
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194A O-B11947

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C-51809
Page 2
for month. Hokkaido coal mines produced 113 per cent of
quota during Jul, Kyushu mines lo3 per cent. Firewood and
some one thousand other items removed from price control
list lst Aug.
South Korea:
Military:
(C) Incidents and operations: Rered AMILAT Seoul
29l000% 30 Jul 49 pertaining Communist activity against
polics and army.
Comment: Civil disturbances may increase in number
and intensity near future since additional membors of North
Korean Kangdong political school (see FEC daily int summary
2470) reportedly have crossed 38th parallel, infiltrating
throughout the provinces.
North Korea:
Political:
(C) Important events: League of Koreans residing
Japan recently disclosed that North Korea-sponsored "all-
Korea" election slated for 25 Sept 49. League statement
said election aimed at overthrow South Korean Government,
dissolution UNCOK, driving US advisers from Korea.
Comment: North Korean plans for conducting election
Sept 49 reported in FEC daily int summary 2495. Specific
date or 25th Sept lacks confirmation. Civil disturbanoes
in South Korea and 38th parallel incidents may increase in
number and intensity as time for North Korean election ap-
proaches (see CINCFE Weekes 36 and 37).
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U 5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: C-51809
Page 3
Military:
(0) Troop movements: Recent low evaluated reports
state elements 5th end 6th Regiments, 2nd Division, Peoples
Army moved to vic1nity Wonsan (3910-12726) and Hamhung (3954-
12732) respectively during late-May and early-June 49. Con-
cerning size of elements involved in 6th Regiment move, reports
uention interchange of certain 7th and 8th Regiment units
Letween Chorwon (3814-12712) and Wonsen areas during 12te-
May end June (FEC Daily Int Summary 2487). First Division
Headquarters, its 2nd Regiment Headquarters and elements of
2nd Regiment, reported variously as platoons, companies and
battalions, observed Sariwon (3830-12544) 10th-25th June.
Movement from Pyongyang occurred 15th-l9th May. lst Regiment
moved from Chaeryong (3824-12538) to Haeju (3802-12542) area
28th June-2nd Jul. Approximately 2,000 Chinese Communist Troops
Lucated Pyongyang in late June.
Comment: Based upon above anelysis and preceding
eports, movement of headquarters, 2nd Regiment and 1 of
iss battalions from Pyongyang to Sariwon is accepted. Move-
mt remainder of regiment probably will occur near future,
sonsidering previous peoples army pattern of first sending
bestalion, then remainder of unit to a new station. There
is insufficien: evidence to accept other movements reported.
Insufficient and sonfusing details in some reports make it
diffioult to determine exectly what wnit movements are in-
volved. Sinoe rcite between Yonohon and Seoul (3734-12658)
in likely approach to either North or South Korea, disposition
of troops as reported has beth offensive and defensive aspeets.
Presence former Chinese Communist troops in Pyongyang reported
reviously but not confirmed. (See Fho Daily Int Summary
2516 for furthor details.)
Field Training Institute located Hamhung area
Legan I-month training program Lst Apr 49 for North Korean
volunteers end labor party members. Program intended to
prepare graduates for entry military service or reserve. Courses
were to be extended to 2 monthe 1st Jun; membership restricted
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C-51809
Page 4
to selectei membors of communist organizationo. Besio mili-
tu nd politicel subjects taught.
Comment: Existence of field training institutes
reported prsulously in Daily Int Summary 2460. Recruit
training believed to be part of regular activities Peoples
Army units. Therefore, it is reasonable that graduates of
field tvaining instltutes sleted primarily for reserve which
may be in process of being organized.
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Political parties
concentrating campaign tours provinces near Manila. Late
Pepor be indigate slight friet on vithin feetions of Naciona-
lista and coalesced minorities party (Laurel) may result in
northern Luzon defections to Quirino and Avelino wings of
Liberel Party. Avelino campaign strategists consider recently
completed southern tour netted Avelino major portion Visayan
vote. vuirinistes now ontering that area anticipate conside-
rable difficulty will be aneountered in Leyte, Samar and por-
tions Mandanao. Laurelistas losing hope substantial support
Mindanao and place hopes Visayan vote on Cebu electorate.
New move reported afoot; several members Quirino and Avelino
wings Liberel Party campaigning for broken ticket with Avelino
for president, Fernando Lopez (Quirino wing VP candidate)
for vice-presidelt.
Quirino wing believes US trip should reinforce Quirinos
voting appeal and hopes for US approval Pacific Union and
that such epprovel will be taken as evidence Us preference
Quirino Adminiostretion. Quirino end UN Ambassador Carlos
Romule have decided withhold drafting final phases Pacific
Union until President Truman sounded out on possibility US
and or British support. Juirino ostensibly not interested
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Pago5
Nr : C-51809
US approval but reportedly yielding before pressure publio
opinion and daily comments Avelino and Laurel spokesmen to
effect Pacific Urion worthless without US support. Leftist
Groups allegedly commencing wide anti-Pacific Union propagande
program within student and progressive intellectual groups.
Military:
(C) Troop movements, incidents and operations: Huk
situation unchanged. Letter allegedly from Huk Supremo Luis
Taruc denouncing Pacific Union and Chiang Kai-Shek visit
published local cailies. National Int Coordinating Agency
(Nica) investigating lead that Taruc letter and other late
leftist propagance written by Americen foreign correspondent
ir. Manila.
Subversive:
Following an announcement that member faculty Far
Eastern Uni"ersity is under investigetion for alleged pro-
pegetion Cocmunist doctrines in classroom (Re US Embassy,
Philippines Weake., 3oth Jul 49) Education Secretary Prudoncio
Lengcauon dirested all units high and elementary schools
conduct immediate screoning teaching personnel with view
weed out pr -leftist instructors for appearance before com-
mittee Un- lipino activities (CUFA). Usual "Red baiting
comments received. from local lert wing groups.
Investigaion illegal entry Chinese Communists and
other aliens con unues. Latest development indicates Cavite
City sorvin: as entry for ring headed by Cavite City coun-
cilor and Sonator Salipada Pondatum. After Manila Police
Dept agents procured conclusive evidence Pendatums connection
uith smuggling ring agents assigned case reportedly were
guickly withdrawn and assigned other duties.
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICF· 1948 O-811947

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C-51809
Page 6
Marbo:
Milisary:
(C) Incidents and operation: Hukbalahap membere
reportedly amployed by Naval Air Station at Agana on Gum.
Ono of grou: possibly nephew Philippines Suprome Huk Commander
Luis Taruc.
Harbor Dock Area (Guam) placed off-limits all unautho-
rized personnel in effort tighten security. Naval Operating
Bese issues passss aftor clearing persons for entry Port Area.
Commont; Presence Huks on Guam possible in view large
number Filipines imported for US employment. Incications
Congress Lalor Organizations (CLO, a front for Filipino Com-
munists) attempting orgenize Guam branch. CLo National Pre-
Bident Amedo Hernandez allegedly sent stooge Amada Dailo to
Guam purpos organize Guam labor. Alfredo Batungbokao former-
ly truck driver for Merianas Air Material allegodly designated
assist Dailo. Other Guam Filipinos suspected. Dailo and
associates attompting ccllect dues establish CLo Branch.
Batungbokec discharged end returned Philippines. Close tie
Philippines between Communist and Hukbalahaps. G-2 Marbo
levestigstion continuing
Air: (Repcrted by FEAF)
Phila.opines:
Pamponga Huk Heacquasters, unable meet acute food
shortege, reportedly roguosted acting Mayor Pedro Lacson.
Mexico, Pampange to utilise his armed civilian guards in
acquisition supplies. Armed group which looted Pulung Bulu,
Angeles, Pampange, 2Oth July 49, Believed Lecsons men.
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
15 JAN 1S49
COPY NO.
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE· 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : C-51809
Page 7
Undetermined number Huks reported concentrating among
hills west of Angeles, Pampanga (South Clark Field), belioved
under command Faustino Del Mundo and Leoncio Gigante with some
units of Castro Alejandrino. Concentration believed prepara-
tion for looting Angeles.
WEEKA NOTE:
Time f1led: 050955z
Time rec'd SC0: 051236z
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center: 051138z
ACTION: ID
INFO : AF, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 18855
(5 Aug 49)
DTG 050955Z
hb/3
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE· 1948 O.B11947

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEFACTHENT OF STATE
3
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
SECRET
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
Action:
OLI
AUG151949
Info:
E
EUP
Rec'd August 15, 1949
FE
1 a.m.
POS
DCR
FROP:
mokyo
T:
Bec retary e? Sbate
NO:
r Sigas, Arust 13 Srry Meapage)
894.00 (W)/8-1
JONT EERY 4E EPCY CTNOEE
notl
Actien Taken
9/27/49
C
649
Action
of efrice
fils
SZCRET FILE
工
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
Dept of Air Force; MILATTACHE Seoul Korea
Nr
CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
13 Aug 49
Japan:
Political:
(A)
) Important changes or contemplated changes in
government: Government Railways Workers Union remains split
Into three factions (CINCFE WEEKA Number 43) as efforts to
1ine up democratization leaguers with renovation leaguers
or Communists prove futile. Communications Ministries post-
pone diemiseal announcements because of large number volun-
tary resignations. Ail-Japan Communications Workers Union,
which has membevahip 450,000 originally planned disturbances
following dismissal announcements, now adopting cautious
attitude fearing oplit which might wreck unions unity.
Attitude outgrowth of recent loss of public favor by rail-
way vorkers resulting from ineidents of violence. Additional
evidence Shimoyame case (CINCFE WEEKA Number 41) tends
support murder theory. Solution of Mitaka disaster case
(CINCFE VEEKA Nunber 44) belleved near, police certain they
are holdlng nctual perpetrator. Outcome of case should
figure strongly in struggle for control government Railway
Vorkers Union. Government continues display strong anti-
Communist attitude (CINCFE VEEKA Number 44).
Repatriation highlights: More repatriates arrive
on second round from Siberia. Returnees continue nuisance
tacties, reluctant fill in information sheets upon arrival
Maizuru, cause delay in debartation. Some display stony
silence, others behave boisterously, sing militant songs.
Most comply with orders port authorities after brief period
non-ccopevation.
Some harass railway authorities, delay
board sehedluled trains, visit Japan Communist Party Headquarters.
CM IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
117
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICF 194A O-B11947

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 2
Frequent disputes between repatriates and Japanese ofri-
cials over debarkation procedures, quarantines, rail trans-
portation have prompted Japanese Government recognize status
repatriates to be military under control demobilization
officials until repatriates reach home. Japanese Government
issued Cabinet Order 300, 11 Aug 49 with provisions that:
(1) Repatriates obey instructions of competent Japanese
authorities and act peacefully from time of embarkation on
repatriation vessels to arrival at homes. (2) Repatriates
wiil utilize only government designated transportation.
(3) Persons other than family members prohibited to ride
same trains or enter station premises. (4) No flags or
propoganda articles other than Japanese national flag per-
mitted in station premises. (5) Persons will not intimidate,
entice or instigate repatriates to violate provisions of
this order. Penalty for violation of provision include
penal servitude of less than one year or fine of less than
10,000 yen.
South Korea:
Political:
(B) Huportant foreign announcement and reaction
theroto: Rernd AmEmbaesy Seoul 080305z, 8 Aug 49 pertain-
ing Joint etttement issued by President Rhee Syngman and
Generalissime Chinag Kai-Shek.
Comment: Not revealed if military and/or financial
agree nt discussed by Rhee and Chiang; discussion same sub-
jects definite possibility. Believed moral support most
slgrifieant Atom each could offer. Too early determine
whether Chiang s conference with Rhee on Pacific Union will
receive unfavorable publicity, such as cccurred in India
over Chiang-Cuirino conference (see FEC Daily Int Summary
2513). Rhee's public endorsement of Nationalist China
dominated by Chlong surprising in view of "White Paper" and
Philippine President Cuirino's failure to mention China
in rectent mtatements regarding proposed union.
CM IN
245
(13 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194R O.811947

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 3
Military:
(C) Inc1dents: Rerad AMILAT Seoul 060930Z, 6 Aug
49 pertaining major incident South Kyongsang Province.
Comment: Three incidents, each involving approxi-
mately 100 guerrillas, have occurred in same general area
within three weeks. Appears these incidents carried out
by one well-armed, successful force. Unless government
forces take positive action to eliminate guerrillas, they
may gain sufricient personnel, arms and equipment to con-
stitutc serious threat to law and order within area.
North Korea:
Military:
(B) Major changes in equipment: Four Japanese
Akatombo trainer aircraft end approximately 150o North
Koreans cbserved Mirim-Ni (3902-12550) Airfield 3rd July.
200 flying personnel and 22 aireraft, consisting four Yak
fighters, 12 Akatombo trainers, two twin engine transports,
two single engine reconnaissance planes, and two twin en-
gine bombers, observed Pyengyang Central Airfield (3902-
12548) same date.
Comnent: Reports plausible. 15o0 personnel repor-
tesly obeerved probably workers employed factory previously
 ported at alrfield. Several recent reports indicated
akra yp mentioned above have been observed Pyongyang
Contral Aarfield.
Approximately 20 152 MM howitzers observed Sinuiju
(4006-12424) 2nd Jun. Peop1es Army art11lery kmown to be
Sinui ju. Hovovep, independent mixed brigade troops Chin-
nampo (3844-12524) reportedly possess 152 MM artillery
pieces (FEc Dally Int Summary 2519). Since this weapon not
carried standard Peoples Army weapon, possibly other pieces
mistaken for 152 Mm howitzers.
CM IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 4
(C) Troop movements, incidents and operations:
Undetermined number Peoples Army troops from Hamhung
(3954-12732) moved Yangyang (3804-12838) and Chorwon (3814-
12712) areas 25 Jul 49. Seventh Regiment, Third Division
located Chorwon area in June. Headquarters and one bat-
talion Third Regiment: Firat Division moved Namchonjom
(3820-12624) to Kumehon (3810-12628) 17th Jul. Tank Com-
pany from Pyongyang observed Namchonjom and engineer
troops from Pyongyang arrived S1nmak (3826-12614) 5th Jul.
Comment: Troops referred to at Nanam and Hamhung
probably personnel of Second Division and Ninth Regiment,
Third Division, respectively. Recent reports mentioned
movenent personnel from these organizations to positions
Southward but reports not yet confirmed. Accepted location
Seventh Regiment (less one battalion) is Wonsan (3910-
12726) and Eighth Regiment in Chorwon area. Above report
supplements previous information which indicated these two
units exehanged stations (FEC Daily Int Summaries 2487,
2516). Such move would be reasonable since Seventh believed
more experienced and Chorwon, closer 38th parallel than
lonsan, is more cvitical area. Above reports not confirmed.
Several reports state headquarters, Third Border
Cons abulary Brigade now located Namchonjom; also indicate
additional battalions subordinate to First and Third Brigades.
Comment: Movement Headquarters, Third Brigade to
Mewehonjom accepted Expansion both First and Third Bri-
gadee oy organiming additional battalions quite possible
(FEo Dally Int Swmary 2523 for additional details).
North Korean Minister National Defense reportedly
Ianucd oroer 20th Jul directing that two-thirds Peoples
Ammy be placed elong 38th parallel by 15th Aug to prepare
fer action against South Korea.
Comment: Earlner reports have shown Peoples Army
is concolidating 38th parallel areas (CINCFE Joint VEEKA 44).
CM IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVIRNMENI PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :C
CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 5
There is no evidence that North Korea leaders have decided
invade South Korea.
Philippines:
Political:
(c) Reactions to important events: Discussions
Pacific Pact over-shadow political picture. Laurel and
Avelino groups vociferate Quirino US trip political gesture
calculated convince electorate of Truman support Quirino
adminiatration. Pacific Pact draftsman UN Ambassador
Carlos P Romulo directed by Quirino proceed with pact
negotlations on social, economic, cultural basis only.
Reportedly Ronulo may proceed India this week enter discus-
sions Indian Prime Minister Nehru preparatory discussions
with Korean President Syngman Rhee. Local opinion generally
pro-peet but most politicians hoping to base political stand
towars pact on s reaction which they desire obtain through
Quirino visit.
Guirino group slated campaign Mindanao. Avelino
groups now touring Southern Luzon provinces. In Manila
Quirino group meeting stiff opposition minority candidates.
Cuirino bloe showing indications possibility three-way split
over position Munila mayoralty with present Mayor Manuel De
La Fuente, racing Commissioner Valeriano Fugoso and Labor
Under Secretary Jose Figueras all three eyeing mayoralty
race 95l. Probability Fuente and Figueras will become
Congressional candidates leaving mayoralty race open for
Fugoso.
Economie:
(0) Laber and social movements: (Ref Manila Em-
bassy WEEn Mumber 35, subject meeting Congress labor organi-
satione (Philippine Communist Party)) message delivered by
Sceretary General Mariano ? Balgos similar usual PKP anti-
Us propegenda with additional charges attacking Quirino for
C IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 194R O.B11947

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 6
Pacific Pact 1dea which PKP claims was based on orders US
Ambassador to Philippines Myron Cowen. CLO National Presi-
dcnt Amado Hernandez apparently changing CLo political
strategy by denouncing all recognized political parties and
indicating CLo dissatisfied with new labor candidate Senator
Marcelo Adduru and Peoples Court Judge Jesus Barrera. Meet-
ing ad journed after passing resolutions including demands
betterment worlkers wage time scale and condemnation insti-
tution loyalty checks by employers and government organiza-
tions.
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Member pro-
Comnunist Peoples Party Senaga Kamejiro was purged from
Presidency Uruma Shimpo Newspaper Company 3rd Aug by con-
servative shareholders. Senega permitted resign. Similar
action contemplated Ikemiya Shuri, Kaneji Saichi and Urasaki
Koka al? members pro-Communist Peoples Party and employees
Uruma Shimpo. Senaca reportedly will devote entire time
polities with possibility announce candidacy for governor
Okinawa.
Soeiclogical:
An additional 3o0 tons food shipped Northern Ryu-
kyus s venerve supply (8oo tons shipped Northern Ryukyus
by Milisary Covernment, reourad Joint WEEkA Number 43).
ALP:
(Reported by FEAF).
Phetippines:
Use Phllippine Air Force fighter aireraft conjunc-
tion Philippine Constabulary anti-Huk operations quite
effective, ccording captured dissidents who also revealed
CM IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : . CX 51922
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 7
that Huks fear fighter attacks more than anything else,
that two F-5ls usually used per mission, and that Huk
concentrations usually strafed only after PC cordon estab-
lished around area.
Huk depredations reportedly accelerated in Central
Luzon provinces Pangasinan, Tarlac, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga,
and Bulacan. Previously reported Huk concentration South
Clark Field successfully eluded Government troops ordered
puraue them and executed planned looting Angeles, Pampanga,
29 Jul 49. Reputedly 50 or more raiders-allegedly 1ed by
Commanders Peregrino M Taruc, alias "Regala" and brother
Luis M Taruc; Agustin Icban, alias "Agusan"; Leoncio Gigante,.
alias "Sevilla"; and Faustino Del Numdo, alias "Sumulong"-
Looted market stalls, carrying away goods and cash. Police
force Angeles reportedly offered specious resistance, thus
greatly incensing populace and confirming their suspicion
police forccs connivance dissidents.
At approximately 2230 hours 3rd Aug estimated 100
Huks believed from Mt Arayat area (15 degrees 12 minutes
North/120 degrees 35 minutes East) sacked 10 houses seven
retail stores Barrio (village) Dau, located East perimeter
Clark Air Force Base. Huks spared house of person accused
12 Mar 49 killing PFC Larry P McQuirk, USAF. Dissidents
reportedly demanding food, Jewelry, fountain pens, and
passes to Clark AFB. PC detachment located between Dau
and Angeles reportedly failed respond to firing until well
after 30-minute attack ceased. Estimated 1500/1700 rounds
ammo fired from carbines, sub-machine guns, M-1 rifles,
and .45 caliber pistols. This constituted third such
attack Dau past year.
Simultaneously Huks numbering 150 or more reportedly
attacked detachment Fourth Heavy Weapons Company, Philippine
Army, Mexico, Pampanga, killing four soldiers and wounding
eight others. Civilian guards under Pedro Lacson, acting
Mayor Mexico, Pampange, allegedly later intercepted same
band at Balas, Mexico, Pampanga. In ensuring ciash no
CM IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O.811947

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT ÓF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Tr:
CX 51
JOINT WEEKA 45
Page 8
casualties either side because "the fight was intended for
the screen", observers commented.
Documents captured by government forces reportedly
indicate Huk Supremo Luis M Taruc's latest alias "Tandang
Pepe" (Old Man Joseph).
Note:
Filed 1305232.
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center 130741z.
Time rec'd sc0 130948z.
ACTION:
ID
INDO
AF, NAVY, PO. STATE
CM IN
246
(13 Aug 49)
DTQ: 1305232 ers/B
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.91)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DTNT 
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
ACQUINIT.NTFILDION
DIVISIUN
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DISTRIBUTION BHANCH
AUG 2 2 1949
5
SECRET
Action: OLI
Info:
Rec'd August 22...1949.
E
1 a.m.
FE
POS
DCR
FROM: Toky
TO
Seerooary of State
NO
a3 503. 00 19, 109
(Army Message)
JOTNT WEEA S PRO EEE
854.
C
C
Action to 
ad
0/0/10/4
6
49
SECRET HI
工
PERMANENT CHCOR
ECAFTRAL FILES WITH

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID Wash DC;
Info:
CS USAF Wash DC; MA Seoul Korea
Nr:
CX 52033
JOINT NEEKA 46
19 Aug 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt: After 2 day meeting of reconstituted Central Committee
Govt Railway Workers Union, Democratization League succeeded
in completely dominating union, at least temporarily. Kato
Etsuo reelected chairman union ofr 6th time, Hoshika Kaname
elected Secretary-General, and Kikukawa Takao Vice-Chairman.
All prominent in Democratization League, which is closely
affiliated with Social-Democratic party. Since govt Rail-
way Workers Union is largest and most influertial of govt
workers unions, with more than 600,000 members, this develop-
ment regarded important triumph ofr Social-Democratic party,
which is desperately trying to regain former influence lost
in general elections 23 Jan 49. 90% dismissals in postal
and telecommunications ministries now completed without any
important repercussions from all-Japan communications workers
union (CINCFE WEEKA no 45), which is much influenced by
development in govt railway Workers union. Govt has com-
pleted more than 80% of its personne1 retrenchment program.
Emergency diet session may be postponed.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Cereal crop prospect continues
exc typhoon damage only minor so far.
Repatriation highlights:
Vigorous objection to cabinet ordinance 30o (CINCFE
WEEKA 45) voiced by Communist party.
Japanese Govt re jected
CM IN
1266
(19 Aug 49)
105
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 - O-811947

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52033
JOINT WEEKA 46
Page 2
demand for repeaj and gave wide publicity informing repatriates
that violaters of provisions of ordinance would be prosecuted
immediately. While initial reaction of repatriates subsequent
to promulgation ordinance has been uncooperative a marked
change in attitude apparent past few days. Incidents currently
minumum.
Two interesting by-products:
lst: Overplaying of disorders by repatriates created
adversc public opinlon and made employment for repatriates
difficult to obtain.
2nd: Evident Soviet authorities conducting repatri-
ation indoctrination in Siberia are in closest touch with
situation in Japan and probably currently directing moder-
ation in nuisance tactics.
North Korea:
Military:
(A) Change in policy: Physical examinations men
ages 17 to 50, women 16 to 50 reportedly initaited throughout
North Korea recently. Gen opinion North Korean populace that
examinations are for mil conacription purposes.
Comment: This is first report indicating possibility
large scele mil conseription. Such action on smaller scale
reported previous y (REC Daily Int Summary 2512). Conserip-
tion for labor purposes may also be involved.
(C) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and operations: About 500 members Peoples Army Tank Unit
observed Pyongyang (3901-12544) area Jate Jun 49. Equipment
consisted 12 light, 20 medium tanks. 10 of latter shipped
Chorwon (3814 -12712) 2nd Ju1. D1fferent source stated 15
tanks departed daily Pyongyang by rail 2nd and 3rd Jul.
CM IN
1266
(19 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-B11947

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
Cx 52033
JOINT WEEKA 46
Page 3
Comment: Although unconfirmed, these and earlier
reports indicate tanks possibly being allocated peoples
army 1nf units (FEC Da1ly Int Summary 2482).
Unidentified peoples army unit moved Wonsan (3910-
12726) area 25th Jun. Troop, arms, equip from und1pclosed
Location arrived Chorwon during period 12 Jun-5th ul.
Comment: These reports considered corroboration
previous info concerning troop movements to same areas
during same per1ods of time (FEC Daily Int Summary 2510,
2516). Recent fragmentary reports indicate peoples army
concentrating undetermined number troops Chorwon-Yoncho
(3806-12704) area. If true, such troops in position defend
vital corridor leading northward from Seoul; also favorable
position launch atk southward.
1st m, 7th regt, 3rd Div, peoples army observed
Chorwon 18th Apr-20th Ju1.
Comment: Several recent reports mentioned presence
7th regt troops Chorwon area although accepted location is
Wonsan Unit possibly moved to Chorwon.
Eight recent reports concerning Soviets in 6 North
Korean towns listed army, navy, air, and advisory activities
conforming generally to pattern set by previous reports.
One notable exception was report 150 Soviet soldiers arrived
Yonchon 18th Jul; began tng border constabulary troops in
combat tactics.
Comment: Earlier report of Soviet advisors being
with border constabulary unit (FEc Daily Int Summary 2494)
has never been confirmed. However, in view reportedly
contemplated incorporation elements border constabulary into
peoples army, logical that Soviet advisors would be utilized
to train former (FEc Daily Int Summary 2534 for additional
details)
CM IN
1266
(19 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948- O-811947

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52033
JOINT WEEKA 46
Page 4
Rerad USMILAT Seou1,   120830Z, 13th Aug 49.per-
taining North Korea rad Pyongyang broadcast concerning "in-
vitation" to Kimm Kiu Sik to Join 'Democratic Front".
Comment: "Democratic Fronts" invitation to Kimm
was in form of open ltr, together with copy of fronts re-
cently issued manifesto. Rad-cast inferred Kimm had not
received 1tr because of South Korean governmental interference.
Fronts efforts to enlist Kimms spt probably motivated by
desire utilize some prominent South Korean as rallying point
for dissident gps to assist in carrying out front objectives.
Kimms political power has waned, health failing, and he proba-
bly would be of little value to front, even if willing
cooperate.
Philippines:
Political: (C) Reactions to important events: Manila
press giving wide play Quirino US welcome with tendency
exploit tidbits as pro-Quirino election propaganda. Quirino-
wing Liberal Party meeting trouble as Manila Mayor Manuel
D La Fuente refused congress nomination and threatened resign
party if relieved mayoralty (CINCFE WEEKA 45). Avelino-wing
vice-percidential cand Vicente Francisco petitioned com on
elections for poll inspectors for Avelino wing; petition
fundamenvally calls for decision legality both Quirino-and
Avelino-wings Liberal Party. Nacionalista and Coalesced
minoritles party leaders Camilio Osias and Tomas Confesor
indicated approval proposed Southeast Asia Union (Ref Amer-
ican Embassy, Philippines, WEEKA 13th Aug 49) provided there
be no mi) commitments. Ol Nacionalista stand reportedly.
will be procalimed 12th Aug after formulation by Former
Justice Claro M Reeto who disapproves Chiang Kai-Shek inelu-
sion "ouher than as token gesture".
M11:
(C) Troop movements and concentrations: Despite
constabulary claims Huk units reduced to gen inactivity,
recent skirmishes indicete dissident units withdrawn central
Luzon area are regrouping Cagayan, Nueva Vizcaya, and Pan-
gasinan provinces.
CM IN
1266
(19 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S GOVERNMENT PHINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52033
JOINT WEEKA 46
Page 5
Harassing groups remain Bulacan, Pampanga, and Nueva Ecija
provinces. CG, 13th Air Force, has confined all mil pers to
Clark Air Force Base 1800 to O60o hours for indefinite
period basis CIC rpt of Huk plans to raid Angeles, Pampanga,
and Clark Base purpose securing food, clothing, am. Rpt
states 150 armed Huks area 1mmediately bordering Clark Base;
100 more Dau, Pampanga; 50 in Angeles, Pampanga. One
Filipino looter killed when small group attempted steal
piping from engineer storage area Clark Base. Incident
indicative of strict security measures Clark Base.
Comment: Angeles and Dau in "sensitive" area around
Clark Base where US food, clothing, am prevalent badly need-
ed by Juks. Although all villages adjacent (lark Base raided
periodically, no raid on base itself to date. Past nuisance
shooting, ambushes involving US pers in and about Dau, Angeles
have resulted curfews and travel restrictions similar present
action, Although atk on Clark Base always potential threat,
current rpts indicate more difinite possibility at this
time.
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Okinawa civil
administrations director public works, Matsuoka Seiho, elected
president Colonization Association which distributed ques-
tionnaires determine public sentiment tovard immigration
Okinawans to Argentine.
Recent repatriates to Amami Oshima, Northern
Ryukyus, reportedly stated Russia only free country in world.
Stated while in Siberian camps received 3500 calories daily
while Ryukyuans under American control recieve 18o0. Further
reported good treatment PW camps and expressed desire for-
ward joint Itr appreciation Russia
OM IN
1266
(19 Aug 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U GOVERNMENT PRINTIAG OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52033
JOINT WEEKA 46
Page 6
Misc:
Subersive: Reliable informants rpts smuggling boats
fr Yoniguni Island, in Southern Ryukyus, going Itoman, Oki-
nawa frequently seek weather refuge Kerama Retto 15 miles
west of Naha. Police ibserved 8 such boats during typhoon
Gloria. Informant believes cargo Formsoan rice and tea.
Air: (reported by FEAF)
Japan:
Subversive: Telephone cable part of system connecting
Tachikawa with Yokota and Johnson Air Force Bases deliberately
cut late l0th Aug or early 1lth Aug.
Comment: This may be retaliatory tactic workers
against recent dismissal 3000 communications and postal
employees Aichi Area.
Three Japanese nationals, illegally entering Ashiya
Air Force Base approx Ol30, 7th Aug were killed by Air Force
member occupation. Two villages near scene killing, Ashiya
and smaller village, placed off limits in view feelings in-
habitants over killing. Local and regional Communist leaders
exploiting incident in attempt create dissension against
occupation.
Philippines:
Subversive: Determined influence results Nov 49
elections favor Nacionalista candidates, Huk armed bands have
infiltrated as far north as Cagayan Province. Govt fols
Cagayan, Isabela, and Nueva Vizcaya provinces reported
frantically requesting reingorcement PC troops respective
provinces.
CM IN
1266
(19 Aug 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
1448 91194/
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52033
JOINT WEEKA 46
Page 7
Successfully avoiding PC and attached units engaged
in "Opr Judas", Huk bands crisscrossed Pampanga in mission
of plunder Magalang, Sta Ana, Arayat, and Angeles among
Pampanga towns looted. During period 6-15 Aug nocturnal
looting by Huks in fringes town Angeles constitutes continued
evidence of Huks freedom movement in area. Significant that
houses Pampanga provincial board member Rafael Lazatin and
Angeles police Lt Raymundo Manarang spared by maruders.
Raymundo Manarang is uncle Huk commander Cesario Manarang.
Practice ground alert he1d Clark AFB 1645 hours 11th
Aug All mil pers utilized as defensive force to resist
ground atk. (FEAF Comment: These measures underscore the pre-
sarious political situation in region, with Philippines
Govt unable maintain order and provide adequate security).
Note:
Filed, 190615z.
Received by DA Crypto Center, 191lo0z.
Received by Sco, 191142z.
Note.
45 10 0M IH 246 23 Aug) D
other pefe not ddeneiried in SV0
ACTION:
10
AP. NAVY. PO. BEAPE
CM IN 1266
(19 Aug 49)
DTG: 190615Z Jww/A
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFIC& 1948 O-811947

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DPA  OF A
ACQUANLUTION
17
DIVISION
RESTRICTED
CH
Action: OLI
AUG 2 01949
Info:
E
Rec'd August 29, 1949
P
1 a.m.
FE
POS
DCR
FROM: Tokyo
TO:
Seccetary of State
NO:
CX S2151, Aug st 26 (Army Message)
894.00 (W)/8-26
JOINT WEEKA 47 SrOm INOFE
Action A med to  harahulk
Action Tken
49
HH

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
RESTRICTED
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To :
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
CSUSAF
Nr :
CX 52151
JOINT WEEKA 47
26 Aug 49
Subject 1s Joint Army-Air WEEKA no 47.
Jápan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Govt; Incomplete returns fr elections for members of farmland
committees on 18th Aug indicate sweeping victory for Conser-
vative Forces, despite careful and intensive preparation at
grass-roots level by Communists. Elections were held in 11000
polling places and vote was unusually heavy, averaging be-
tween 75 and 80 per cent for entire country. Large percentage
successful and were new faces, many representing former land-
lords. Democratic-Liberals jubilant, regard elections as
preview of elections for House of Councillors next Apr.
Opposition to merger between Democrats and Democratic-Liberals
increasingly apparent in latter party. Premier Yoshida be-
lieves Diet Session unlikely before late Oct or early Nov.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency issue 292 billion
22nd August increase expected until end of month. Damage fr
typhoon "JUDITH" expected cut Kyushu steel and coal product-
ion for Aug. Wheat collections 86 per cent comp1 l0th Aug.
White potato coll lags, only 42 percent 10th Aug.
Repatpiation highlights:
In general, behavior of repatriates progressively
better during past week. Disorder comparatively minimum.
2000 repatriates arriving 24th Aug showed hesitant attitude
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 19490-830429

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 52151
JOINT WEEKA 47
Page 2
about filling out proper identification cards. Five more ships
scheduled to arrive Maizuru before months end, each with
presumably 2,O00 repatriates. These shipments should indicate
change of tactics, if any, to be implemented by Soviet Siberian
indictronators.
Both Govt and Japanese public continue firm attitude
toward any recalcitrance on part of repatriate. This has
resulted in more repatriates breaking ties with Japanese
Communist Party and, in some cases, with apologies on part of
individual repatriate for their initial behavior.
South Korea:
Mil:
(C) Inc1dents and opr: Rerad USMILAT Seou1 190830Z,
20th Aug 49 pertaining sabotage of Comms and railway inst1s.
Comment: Increased number and intensity Guerrilla
atks on Comms and railway instls indicates directives issued
y Communist-dominated South Korean Labor Party being carrded
cut in preparation for North Korean sponsored 20th Sept elect-
ions (FEc daily Int Summary 2521). Next on scd may be rpts of
intimidation farmers and villagers by Guerrillas and "advance
guard" to force voting in election.
North Korea:
Mil:
(C) Troop movement, concentrations, and opr: Approx-
imately 20, C00 Chinese Communist Force troops in North
.crean Peoples Army uniforms observed Sinuiju (4006-12424)
17th Ju1 49. About 2. O00 CCF troops stationed Chinnampo
(3844-12524) 15th Jun. Sma11 arms of Czechos1ovakian make
Lduntified with 300 troops Sariwon (3830-12544) in Aug.
500 C0F troops arrived Sinmak (3826-12614) 4th Aug: were to
se redisposed in areas netr 38th parallel South of Sinmak.
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
DA SCO FORM
22-4
RESTRICTED
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949-830429

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMPNG
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 52151
JOINT WEEKA 47
Page 3
Approximately 100 CCF troops arrived Kumchon (3810-12628)
4th Aug.
Comment: Total number CCF troops reported above con-
sidered exaggerated. However, many fragmentary reports have
mentioned presence such troops various locations and it 1s
believed substantial numbers now present North Korea.
Previous unconfirmed rpt mentioned utilization CCF troops as
Comdrs Peoples Army Platoons and higher units in 38th parallel
areas. Logical that North Korean Armed Forces will exploit
this source of trained pers.
Approximately 1,000 troops fr Peoples Army unit at
Chaeryong (3824-12538) (presumably First Regt) and about 750
fr Peoples Army Unit at Sariwon (presumably Second Regt)
reportedly moved by rail 14th Jui to area 5 miles Northeast
of Haeju (3802-12542). A11 movements heav11y guarded.
Haeju area restricted to all pers except mil.
Comment: Troops reported as being fr Sariwon possibly
Bn which recently moved Pyongyang to Sariwon (FEC Daily Int
Lummary 2516). Previous rpts stated First Regt moved
Chaeryong to Haeju 28th Jun-2nd Jul. Although both rpts un-
confirmed, appears elements this regt possibly moving Haeju
area.
Approximately 16800 Peoples Army troops fr Nanam
(4142-12941) and Wonsan (3910-12726) arrived Pokkye-R1
(3826-12716) 17th Jul. Troops moved by rail during hours o:
darkness 10th-16th Ju1. About 7,000 these troops departed
Fokkye-Ri in direction Ichon (3830-12654) 17th Ju1.Remainder
went to fiat fields on both sides road between Yonchon
(3806-12704) and Chorwon (3814-12712) where cons trenehes
reportedly in progress. Large quantity arms and equip,
stacked and carefully covered, observed vicinity Pokkye-Ri.
Since 28th Jul travel Yonchon to Chorwon restricted. Some
of troops stated their place taken in Nanam and Wonsan by
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
RESTRICTED
JA SCO FORM
22-4
5 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-830429

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 4
Nr : CX 52151
JOINT WEEKA 47
recruits.
Comment: Recent rpts, corroborated by info above,
indicate Peoples Army concentrating undetermined number troops
Chorwon-Yonchon area, and fairly extensive entrenching and
cons of pill boxes appear to be in progress in that area.
Probably that troops reported in area concerned are fr Second
Div at Nanam, with some possibly fr Third Div at Wonsan.
Figure of 16800 believed exaggerated. Cons field fortificat-
1ons as reported indicates activities Peoples Army troops in
Chorwon-Yonchon area, along vital Seoul-Wonsan corridor,
defensive in nature. Believed that Second Div has been tng
large number recruits in Najin (4210-13015) area and these
roops may be used to garrison Northeastern North Korea
replacing Second Div Troops (FEC Daily Int Summary 2519).
Philippines: Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Generally conceded
chat favorable rpt on Quirino US trip will reestablish Quirino
chances equal footing Avelino and Laurel factions. Avelino
Wing Liberal Party (ALP) poll inspector allocations (CINCFE
WEEKA 46) pending decision elect1ons com. Quirinistas
deny legality ALP on basis Avelino and Cohorts expelled
liberal party during Jun Quirino convention. Preliminary
survey intimates Com action will favor ALP. Political man-
euvering continues as minority senator Tomas Confesor defects
to cuirino bloc and former Quirino adherent surplus property
commissioner Jose Zulueata admits Nacionalista affiliations.
(Ref US Embassy, Manila WEEKA 19 Aug 49). This changeover
presages open battle negros and Capiz sections where support
formerly conceded Quirino. ALP allegedly investigating rpts
Guirino forcing govt employees support ALP or suffer discharg .
Avelinistas hoping obtain evidence for use discrediting
uirino. New ALP trend indicated by Avelino statement de-
nouncing Huk extermination efforts by Quirino.
(27 Aug 49)
CM IN 2603
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-830429

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
JOINT WEEKA 47
Nr :
CX 52151
Page 5
Comment: Softening ALP attitude Huks indicates extent
increasing importance dissident element support coming
elections.
M1l:
(C) Troop movements and concentrations: Recent in-
rease Huk raids Cagayan, Nueva Ecija, Pampanga, Bulcan
Provinces resulted Constabulary orders overall ofrensive
against dissidents. Constabulary and Manila Police Dept (MPD)
investigating rumors effect Nueva Ecija Huk leader Jose
Limasalang De Leon now in Manila. MPD has unconfirmed rpts
Ruks infiltrating Manila preparation proposed Oct revolution
(CINCFE WEEKA 43).
Misc:
(A) Sociological: Associate Supreme Court Justice
Gregorio Perfecto died 17th Aug. No successor nominated to
αae.
(B) Psychological: Philippine National Int Coordinat-
ing Agency (NICA) planning institute Propaganda and Counter-
Fropaganda Sc. This move reportedly nec in view lack satis-
faction US Voice America, other anti-Communist propaganda
media. Proposed Sec will prepare specific Communist exposes
or translation various Philippines dialects for dissemination:
provincial peoales. NICA member has stated desire US financ-
ial support with proviso Philippines accepts responsibility
interpretation dissemination.
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Okinawa Civil Adm
(OCA) Dir Public Works Matsuoka Seiko reprimanded by Mil Govt
ror misrepresenting facts regarding his newly formed colon-
12ation association (CINCFE WEEKA 46).
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949O-830429

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
cx 52151
OINT WEEKA 47
Page 6
CIC completed screening selectees new Okinawa Assembly.
Latter to be replaced soon by 13-advisory body. Assembly
leaders 1nvolved Mar 49 revolt not included new assembly
(CINCFE UEEKA 23).
Comment: Selectees new Assembly probably will con-
stitute advisory body when instituted.
Air: (Reported by FEAF).
Japan:
Tachikawa Air Force Base Tower (Army Airways Comm
service) rpts effective blocking taking place constantly
during afternoons and evenings cn air to ground frequency
495 kilocycles. Blocking signals are of broadcast nature,
announcements are in foreign language believed to be Korean.
Class "B" bearings indicate source transmission located North
Korea. Better fixes being sought. Investigation continuing.
Subversive: All-Japan Comms Labor Union (Zente1)
released 9 of 11 Communist members in Aichi chapter. (Comment:
Significance move not determined at present, dismissal may
indicate chapters disagreement with Communist tactics which
apparently lay behind previcusly reported cutting Tachikawa
Air Force Bases telephone cable Comms with Yokota and Johnson
Air Force Bases (CINCFE WEEKA 46).
Philippines:
Hong Kong Airways Ltd replacing their flying boats
between Hong Kong and Manila with British Overseas Airways
Corp "CANADAIR", Argonaut class, Last flying boat service
Will depart Manila 25th Aug, first CANADAIR will arrive Manila
27th Aug. (Comment) Use of CANADAIR, DC-4 type aircraft,
indicates improvement carrying capacity and service between
Rong Kong and Mantla.
However, in event of future emergency
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GGVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949 --O-830429

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 52151
JOINT WEEKA 47
Page 7
Hong Kong, these planes would be restricted to use of Ka1 Tak,
only airfield Hong Kong, Moreover, this airfield, being
located not on the island but on peninsular mainland, would
be directly exposed to Chinese Communist pressure.
Subversive: Dissidents still active nightly around
Clark Air Force Base. In neighboring town Angeles, several
shootings occurred as result private fued between Philippines
Constabulary and Angeles police. Two policemen and one PC
enlisted man reported wounded night, 18th Aug. Serious out-
break reportedly occurred Angeles night, 20th Aug involving
reported band 20o Huks seeking PC pers who apparently
attempted to withdraw to avoid contact. 1 PC G-2 agent report-
edly killed in ensuing engagement. USAF Air Police pers at
sub-station Angeles withdrawn 20th Aug, to avoid possible
incident. All US pers restricted to Clark AFB between 1800
and 0700 hours (CINCFE WEEKA 46 stated 1800-0600 hours).
Dusk and dawn aerial reconnaissance flights over wide peri-
meter Clark AFB continuing.
FEAF Comment: Precarious political situation
in region continues, with Philippines Govt apparently
increasingly unable to cope with situation.
Following clash between PC soldiers and municipal
police Angeles, Pampanga, acting Mayor Pedro Lacson of
Mexico, Pampanga, publ1cly declared 19th Aug 49 that PC
soldiers will not be permitted to commit excesses in his town
because he will meet them with armed force of 3oo men.
FEAF Comment: In view Lacsons previous activities
(see CINCFE WEEKA 45) Lacsons threat may be interpreted as
move designed keep Philippines Constabulary away fr Mexico
or reduce effectiveness their presence.
Note:
Time filed 261015Z
Time rec'd by DA Crypto Center 261150Z
Time rec d by sco 2á13492
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-830429

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
RESTRICTED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
cx 52151
JOINT WEEKA 47
Page 8
Note:
190830Z is CM IN 1485 (20 Aug 49) ID
46.1s CM IN 1266 (19 Aug 49) ID
Other refs not identified in SMC
ACTION:
ID
INFO : AF, NAVY, PO, STATE
CM IN 2603
(27 Aug 49)
DTG 260917Z
Jdw/C
RESTRICTED
DA SCO FORM
22-4
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-830429

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.92)
ACTION COPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
5
Rec'd Sept 5, 1949
Action: OLI
i a.m.
Info:
TNT OF STATE
E
AN AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
P
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
FE
SEP 6-1949
CIA
PCS
FROM: Tokyo
TC : Secretary of State
NC
: CX 52269, 2 Sept 49
(Army Message)
JOINT WEEKA 48 FROM CINCFE
894.00(W)/9-249
Action Assigned to
nted
Aotion Taken
Date of Actioo
A lon 0 le 
9
Direction to Do.
NOVS
0
T
X
O
工
SECPET
PORRS WITH

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To
Department of the Army for CSGID
Info:
MILATTACHE Seoul Korea; Dept of Air Force (DA pass)
Nr
e
CX 52269
JOINT WEEKA 48
2 Sep 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Govt: Cabinet decided 3oth Aug call extraordinary Diet
session on or about 20th Oct, when legislaticn embodying
taxation system reform recemmendations by Shoup Mission will
be ready. Later returns fr elections of members of farmland
committees (CINCFE WEEKA Number 47) show that Communists
were vuccessful in obtaining only about six percent coveted
seats, despite their intensive preparations. Judicial
Affairs Ccnmittee of Lower House investigating Shimoyama
case (CINCFE WEEKA Number 41), 1s interrogating country's
leading authorities on medical criminology.
Economic:
(A) Economie changes: Currency at 296 billion yen
29th Aug due to month-end demand for funds. Cereal crop
deliveries (excluding Hokkaido) expected to reach 100 per-
cent by end Aug. Coal with exception few types, placed on
free sale 25th Aug.
Repatriation highlights:
Since enforcement of Ordinance 300 (CINCFE WEEKA
45) repatriation has operated relatively smoothly. A minor
change in Soviet tactics consists in having "Aktiv" leaders
aboari ehips fade into background and maintain control over
repat riates thrcugh "puppet" leaders. This change avoids
carly identification at Port of "Aktives", and permits them
to wot: undetected later in home communities.
CM IN 3852
(2 Sep 49)
106
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949--O-848719

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCÓMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CX 52269
JOINT WEEKA 48
Page 2
Rpts indicate that many Japanese prisoners of war
strongly anti-Communist until arrival at Nakhodka Repatria-
tion Center. After seeing thousands of fellow prisoners at
center awaiting repatriation they become convinced of the
oft-repeated statements concerning Japanese Govt's refusal
to send nec ships. Tc add further authenticity, Soviets
with full knowledge that Nakhodka 1s filled to oapacity,
transport additional prisoners to center and 1ssue apolc-
getic statements to effect Japanese Govt has again failed to
fulfill its obligations. Final indoctrination awaiting
departure fr Nakhcdka is reported extremely effective.
North Korea:
M2l:
(B) Maj changes in strength: Chinese Communist
forces troops disguised as "war refugees" entering Pyongyang
(3901-12544) aimcst da1ly since 19 Jun 49, according to
recent low evaluation rpt. Source estimated 300 theae troops
now Pyongyang. Source informed through Sinu1ju (4006-12424)
residents that div such troops has entered North Korea fr
Manchuria through Antung (4008-12422).
Corrnent: Improbable that div, or approximately
10,C0o troops, now in North Korea, although many previous
rpts have toid of troops entering northern zone who formerly
served with Chinese Communist forces (FEC Daily Int Summary
2541)
(C) Troop movements, concentrations, and opr: 20
tanks, 1ò self-propelled guns, 32 Soviet Zis trucks loaded
on train Pyengyang 3oth Jun reportedly destined for Sariwon
(3830-12544) (for furcher info concerning reported outship-
ment tanks fr tani: unit at Pyongyang see FEc Daily Int
Summary 2529).
34 Soviet efficers and noncommissioned officers, 30
Peoples Army troops arrived Pyongyang (3824-12718) 19 Ju1;
CM IN 3852
(2 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949-O-848719

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 52269
JOINT WEEKA 48
Page 3
reported to Hq, Seventh Regt, Third Div. Employee Wonsan
(3910-12726) ra1lroad station stated no tickets sold for
trains going south 19th Jul because Soviet arty advisere
and Second Div Arty unit" fr Nanam (4142-12941) were pass-
ing through Wonsan for Pyongyang.
Unidentified Peoples Army arty bn arrived Chorwon
(3814-12712) by rail 10th Jul; was billeted in former grain
warehouses. Units former station undetermined.
Approximately 3,000 arty and 7,000 1nf troops
(Peoples Army) reporuedly fr Nanam and Wonsan concentrated
Polkkye-R1 (3826-12716)-Pyongyang area during period 20th-
29th July. About 2, O0o of arty troops concerned went to
Pycngyang, remainder arty and inf trcops Pokkye-Ri are
billeted in tents on former Japanese drill ground and tents
and bldgs in separate area nearby. 12 covered freight cars,
heavily guarded, cbserved Pckkye-Ri railroad station. Many
staclks covered nater.als, reportedly arms and am, observed
near te wn. Trccps, Poklye-Ri by rail.
Comment: Appears doubtful this number troops in
Poklgve-Ri area but eiforts being made to determine validity
rpt. Nevertheless, volune of rpts concerning movement into
this gen area, with roops reportedly coming fr Nanam and
Wonsan, definitely indicates su stantial number Peoples Army
treops, equip being concentrated there (CINCFE WEEKA 47).
Hq. First Bn. Seventh Regt, Third Div, Peoples Army
reported Chorvon 26ti Jun-22nd Jul.
Comment: Several recen: rpts tend to confirm earlier
infc which stated Seventh Regt tationed Chorwon-Pyongyang
arss and Eighth Regt located Wo isan, with one bn at Yangyang
(380l-12838) (FEc Da11y Int Sumiary 2532).
Peoples Army am dump covering surface area approxi-
metely 3, 000 sq feet located Chorwon 21st Jul. Four other
dumpe undetermined sizes newly stablished vicinity Chorwon.
Amount am stored undetermined but 21 cart and wagon loads
plaved in dumps 2let Jui.
CM IN 3852
(2 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949-O-848719

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 4
Nr :
CX 52269
JOINT WEEKA 48
During period 13th-15th Aug Peoples Army troops
daily distributed seven types propaganda leaflets Yohyon-
Mi (3800-12626) area. Leeflets also broadcast over loud-
epeakers; contained uaual statements.
Comment: Translations of leaflets being mailed to
DA.
South Korea:
M1l:
(C) Contemp1ated opr: Rerad USMILAT Seoul 260900Z,
27th Aug 49 pertaining Army 8 planned Sept offensive against
guerrilias.
Comnent: Taebaek Brigace organized recently for
exprest purpose combatting guerrillas Kangwon Province.
Brigade will opr simi arly to old combat comd organized Mar
49 tc nsutralize Suerrilla activity Chiri Mountain area
(3518-12742) (FEC Int Summary 2379). Korean Army Hq prob-
ably will inactivate unit after it fulfills mission. Appar-
entiy Army realized necessity initiating concentrated offen-
sive to eliminate guerrilla activity now rampant Korean
mainland. Believed favorable treatment and re-education of
prisonere, such as occurred Cheju Island early 49, would
contribute to succese cf oor.
Philippinco:
Political:
(C) Reactions to importent events: President
Quirino has called special session Congress three day period
beg1n 31 st Aug. (Ref US Embassy. Manila, WEEKA 27 Aug 49).
Reportedly spesiel seesion may see ousting of Quirinista
Acting Senate President Mariano Juenco by Avelino and Laurel
factions.
Qulrine fereed convoke legislature in face
(2 Sep 49)
CM IN 3852
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CX 52269
JOINT WEEKA 48
Page 5
unpublished decision Supreme Court declaring President's use
emergency powers illegal. Quirino allegedly aware Court
decision before leaving US trip but perauaded Court postpone
publication until after special session convened.
Quirino and Avelino Liberal Party wings still de-
bating before elections com subj legality both wings. Laur
els minority leaders favoring Avelino in order maintain
three-party status with increased chances minority cands.
24th Aug press release by Secretary Gen Mariano P
Balgos of Philippines Communist Party (PkP) states PKP will
support Laurels Nacionalista and Coalesced minorities party
Nov elections. PKP re ease exploited by Quirinistas to
dencunce minority as Communist sponsored organization.
Mi1:
(B) Maj changes ir comd: President Quirino alleg-
edly secretly appcinted Col Juan Benitez Chairman Philip-
pines Veterans Board vice Brig Gen Macario Peralta. Latter
resigns soon to begin senatorial campaign Quirino wing.
Leading veterans groups displeased, believe Col Jamie E
Ferrer logical sucJessor Peralta. Ferrer supporters prepar-
ing protest to President upon publication Benitez's appoint-
ment.
RYCOM:
Political:
(A) Imperant changes in govt, and in domestic
poliey:
Ikemiya Shui, editor in chief of "Uruma Shimpo",
appointed President of newspaper at meeting of Directors
17th Aug upon acceptarce of Senaga Kamejiros resignation.
"Uruna Shimpo" reprimanded by Mit Govt for publishing
artiele in conneetlon with future opr Okinawa Board of
Trade. Mal Govt ordezed newspaper to publish retraction.
CM IN 3652
(2 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1948 O-811947

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
.CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 52269
JOINT WEEKA 48
Page 6
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Philippines:
Philippine Air Force pilot killed 28th Aug in P-51
crash near Florida Blanca Airfield, cause crash undetermined.
(FEAF Comment: Crash reduoes number fighter airoraft
to 21.)
Subversive: Huks killed 20 people in towns Pampanga
Province past wk. Majority Huk force Pampanga reportedly
shifted fr eastern to western part province, apparently due
to scarcity food in eastern towns. Huk forces Nueva Eoija
Province repoxted moving northern provinces, where restrain-
ing action of Govt even less likely than in Central Luson.
Note:
Fi1ed 021009z.
Time rec'd DA Cryptc Center 021224z.
Time rec 'd Sc0 021306z.
NOTE:
WEEKA 47 1S CM IN 2603 (27 Aug 49) ID
WEEKA 41 18 CM IN 15300(17 Ju1 49) ID
WEEKA 45 1s CM IN 246 (13 Aug 49) ID
MANILA WEEKA 27 18 CM IN 2656 (27 Aug 49) ID
260900% not 1dentif1ed in SMC
ACTION:
ID
INFO:
AF, NAVY PO, STATE
CM IN 3852
(2 Sep 49)
DTG: 021009Z
1rp/c
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949 -O-B48719

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.89)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
SEP121949
SECRET
n: OLT
Tfo
Rec'd September 12, 1949
1 a.m.
FROM
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of Stace
HO:
OX S2383, Septencer 9 (Aray Meusaze)
JON VEREA O ROR INEFE
894.00 (W)/9-949
Lotion Assigned to
Action Taken 
13/28/49
Dute of Action
10 1 1 
Nwe ar urriuor
Direction to uc
Fl
SECRET FILE
NOV&
0.50
PERMANENT GDON
SO/R CENTRAL FILES WITH

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To :
Dept of the Army Wash DC for CSGID
Info:
Chief KMAG Seoul Korea; CS USAF Wash DC
Nr
cx 52383
JOINT VEDKA 49
9 Sep 49
Subj 1s Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 49.
Japan:
Political:
A. Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt: Official returns up to 3oth Aug released by Agriculture
Ministry on results of farmland elections idicate that Communist
cands obtained less than one per cent of approximately 11l,000
Leats (CINCFE WEEKA 48), with Conservative Forces scoring
overwhelming victory. Labor-Farmer Party, small Extreme Left-
Wing group, proposed joint struggle to overthrow Yoshida Govt
to Sooial-Democrats, New Renovationists, new Farmers and
Communists.
Communists immediately accepted proposal with
enthusiasm. Soclal-Democrats will hold meeting 12th Sep to
discuss proposal.
Economic:
A. Economic changes: Currency 1ssue at 295
billion 30th Aug. Bank of Japan plans to issue 1, O00 yen notes,
possibly starting early in Dec. Coal production Aug just over
100 percent of quota. Govt estimates damage fr typhoon "kITTy"
at 30 billion yen.
Repatriation highlights:
In lieu of the physical violence and disorders prevalent
three weeks ago, current tactics of repatriates assume form of
convenient loss of memory and falsificaticn of info. 120
returnees detained and segregated because of failure to remeber
CM IN 4998
(9 Sep 49)
06
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1343

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 52383
JOINT WEEKA 49
page 2
location and name of their POw camps. Others falsified
passenger roster claiming Tokyo instead of actual homes as
demobilization point, possibly in order to register at Japan
Communist Party Hq. Japanese Repatriation Releif Agency
wired orders to repatriation center to warn returnees that
falsification of records considered direct violation of provisions
(f cabinet crder 300 (CINCFE WEEKA 45). Aug shipments complet-
ed and next boatload of repatriated due 15th Sept.
North Korea:
Mil:
C. Troop movements, concentrations, incidents, opr:
Recent fragmentary rpts mentioned diversified activities by
Peoples Army pers 1n two important 38th parallel areas.
Essence rpts follows: Approximately 70 new Soviet trucks
observed on fre1ght cars Pokkye-Ri (3826-12716) 13th July.
Elements Seventh Regt, Third Div stationed pyonggang (3824-
12718) 30th Jun. 14th Peoples Army Arty pteces 1mplaced
Crorwon (3814-12712) area 2nd Ju1. 4 Platoons Inf dug trenches
da11y Chorwon-Yonchon (3806-12704) areas 2yth Jun-23rd Jul.
Road Chorwon to Yonchon was to be widened fr 9 to 30 feet
during period lst Jun-3lst Jul to facilitate Peoples Army traffic
beiween the two towns. Local labor used for project. Unde-
termined number barracks nder construction near Yonchon 1oth
Jul to accommodate undisclosed number Peoples Army troops who
arrived there during period 27th-29th Jun. According to rumors,
either new div to be formed Yonchon area or Third Div Hq fi
Wonsan to occupy area. Evacuation orders served on 250 house-
holds Yonchon area 27th Jul. Second Bn, Eighth Regt, Third
5lv stationed Yangyang (3804-12838) 15th Jun.
Comment: In view consistent references to locations
Seventh and Eighth Regts, following dispositions are accepted:
Seventh Regimental Hq at Chorwon and Bn each at Chorwon, Pyonggang,
and Hwachon (3806-12742); E1ghth Regimental Hq and 2 Bns at
Wonsan, and i Bn at Yangyang. Insufficient evidence at present
of stockpiling and troop concentrations on critical corridore
CM IN 4998
(9 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Hr :
cx 52383
JOINT WEEKA 49
page 3
tc South Korea to regard above rpts as prelude to imminent
invasion by Peoples Army. Defensive aspect activities Chorwon-
Yonchon area still pertains as previously pointed out (CInCF
WEEKA 47) Although area concerned could be used launch attack
1f such be intent North Korean leaders.
Rpts concerning other North Korean areas follows:
Speclal Peoples Army Bn 650 men stat1oned Kan-N1 (3908-12542)
13th July. Unit guarding arsenal. rhree box cars loaded
with undetermined types am, 30 mortars, 20 field guns,
observed Pyongyang (3901-12544) ra11road stat1on 30th Jun-5th Ju1.
Destination not reported. Hq First Div, Peoples Armv observed
Sariwon (3830-12544) 2nd-12th Jul. First Regt, First Div 1ocated
Haeju (3802-12542) area 6th-21st Jul. Unidentif1ed Inf unit
approximately 780 men moved 1n trucks Kumchon (3810-12628) to
Kyechung (3804-12628) 28th Ju1.
Comment: Movement units and equip reported above not
yet accepted, although presence First Div Hq Sariwon and First
Regt Haeju area reported previously. If these and preceding
related rpts are accurate, Peoples Army troops are being
ccncentrated on another critical corridor. Considering time
lapse between present and date of activities reproted, possibly
more Peoples Army troops have been assembled in corridors mention-
ed this WEEKA than is apparent fr rpts received to date.
Philippines:
Political:
C. Reactions to important events: Wrengling
among Quirino Presidential advisers continues over proposed
special session Congress. House Speaker Eugenio Perez and
Aeting Senate President Mariano Cuenco strongly favor abandon-
ment session plans in view pressing election business. Minority
and Avenlinistas hope prove session necessity to people thorugh
blasts local press.
CM IN 4998
(9 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949--O-848719

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 52383
JOINT WEEKA 49
page 4
Presidential Palace source states President was
advised Supreme Court decision would be 6 to 4 against use
emergency povers. Actual count of 5 to 4 against use powers
resulted no judgement. In view demise late Justice Gregorio
Perfecto who reportedly was against Quirino on emergency
powers 1ssue and replacement by pro-Quirino Luis P Torres,
this decision expected to hold. Quirino retention of powers will
nake special congressional session unnecessary. Plans "for
session probably will be shelved.
Presidential aspirant Jose Avelino to make Central
Luzon tour next wk with view seeking Huk vote.
C. Labor movements: Manila Railroad Co (MRR)
Union long-time Congress Labor organiz: 1ons (CLo) affiliate to
ciefect fr CLo. Union will join with other defected unions
under Tedro Castrol local member Philippines Communist party.
MRR defection largely personal due recent differences MRR Union
President Teotimo Buhain and CLO National President Amado V
Mernandez. CLo to hold fourth annual exec committee meeting
Manila 4th Sep.
Mil:
C. Incidents and opr: Huk-Constabulary clashes
overahadowed past wk by civilian guard anti-civilian incidents
Bulacan and Pampanga provinces. Pampanga peace order situation
worsening with member civilian guard units, police organizations
and Constabulary engaging internal strife.
Huk activity
confined Tarlac and Nueva Ecija provinces.
Misc:
A. Subversive: Govt agents for second time seized
shipment Tn Gung Bac newspapers which arrived fr Hong Kong by
PAL plane 29th Aug. Papers addressed to local Chinese. Seizure
ii line with local int, investigative efforts to halt flow of
pro-Communist propaganda into Philippines.
CM IN 4998
(9 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1049-O-848719

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr
cx 52383
JOINT WEEKA 49
page 5
RYCOM:
Political:
C. Iripc rtand changes in gcvt: Revised 1ist 13 appintees
Jew Jkinawa Aesembly submitted by Governor for Mil Goyt approval.
Li c4. identical with 13 man panel screened by CIC (CINCFE
EEkA number 471. Preliminary CIc sereening new list reveals no
iero gatory in No member present assembly included new panel.
Hame3 for new assemblies Ncrthern and Sourthern Ryukyus not yet
subn tted CIC.
Scciclcgicas:
Unidertified. white enlisted man shet and killed
civi.ian pclicemen critieally weunded second policeman
Yontin police eraticn (near Kedena Air Base) 4th Sep 49.
Motive believec invoived Okinawan female. No undue hostile
reacnion Okinawan pecple yet cbserved
A3Ts
( repected by FRAF).
Japan:
Itazuke Air Foree Base Control tewer rpts intermittent
interference experienced 30tb and 3i Aug on frequeney of 4495
kilcryeles.
Tnterference ernsisted of breadcast of foreign
ianguage belived to be Kr rean. (FEAF conanent: This interference
may be fr same source as biceking signals picked up by
Tachikawa Aix Bt ree Base cn 4495 kilcoyeles as repreted in
CINCTE WEEKA 47.)
Philip! ines:
Subversive:
Hulk activity Clark Air Fcree Base area quieced down
cons: derably. In Angeles, US Air Force Air Police, City Pclice,
and Philippine Constabulary ccoperating cempletely.
Unofficial
CM IN 4993
(9 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 19490-848719

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.94)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 52383
JOINT WEEKA 49
page 6
relf-imposed curfew business houses has ceased and conditions
appear more stable. Veteran Philippines Constabulary have city
surrounded and are operating as ambush patrols. Numerous Huk
collaboretore arrested and killed as result photograph found
on Huk Connander.
FEAF comment: Thin decrease in Huk activity may be
emperary
duc to reported shifting of Huk Forces. See CINCFE
A 47
NOTE:
Fi1ed 090611z
Time reo'd DA Crypto Center 090907z
lime ree'd sco 091012z
ACPION:
INPD:
AF. NAVY, FC. STATE. SECDEF
ON  4998
(9 sep 49)
DTG 0906112
r1/B
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949O-B48719

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
ACTION COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
SECRET
Action: OLI
Rec'd Sept 19, 1949
Info:
1 a.m.
E
P
EUR
FE
POS
DCR
FROM: Tokyo
TO
: Secretary of State
NO
: CX 52531, 16 Sept 49 (Army Megsage)
894.00 (W)/9-1649
JOINT WEEKA 50 FROM CINCFE
Aution Taken
hd
AC
ON
CEP101949
SECRE
工
H

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID Wash DC;
Info:
MA Seoul Korea; CS USAF Wash DC
Nr:
CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
16 Sep 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt: Govt in continuing crackdown on left-wing Koreen
organizat1ons (see ourad C 52413, 10 Sept 49) closed four
more groups associated with League of Koreans residing in
Japan (Choren), including League of Korean Democratic Women
in Japan, which some disbanded Choren chapters had been using
as front. About 30o Koreans arrested, many released later.
Korean Delegation, led by Communist Kin Ten Kai, protested
to ScAp, were told to address their grievances to Japanese
Govt. At three-day meeting of central committee of all-
Japan Communications Vorker Union, regarded as most radical
of all govt workers unions (CINCFE WEEKA 46), right-wing
reconstruction league faction withdrew cn second day, claiming
Comaunists using unfair tactics. Union, which has been
dominated since its inception by Communist Diet member
Dobashi Kazuyoshi, appears definitely split.
Cabinet announeed emergeney Diet session will be
convened 25 Oct, last possibly 30 days. About 60 bills.
many coneerned with tax law rovisions, to be presented.
Economic:
(A) Econemic change: Govt plans to lift controls
on all potatoes effective Apr 50. Govt seeiks expand
shipbuiiding and ship repairing during current fiscal yr.
Will
also seek authorization for reopening some cil refineries.
Curreney down to 291 billion yen 12 Sept.
(17 sep 49)
CM IN 6389
107
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—-348719

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
page 2
Repatriation highlights:
Repatriates unemployment constitutes important
problem for Japanese Govt and relief agenoies. Employers
appear influenced by conviction that returnees are Red
indoctrinated and will subvert other employees and cause
labor strife. Japanese surveys indicate majority repatriates
in rural districts find work but those in urban areas meet an
elready tight job market brought on by retrenchment program
lus employer unwillingness to hire them. Unfavorable
gmployers attitude toward repatriates brought on by repatriates
emonstrations carried out at repatriation centers and
enroute to homes. Former teachers among repatriates
reportedly cannot hope for reinstatment due to Red stigma.
In recognition of problem, govt and relief agencies are
sponsoring meetings to find ways and means to overcome
employer and general populace prejudice and to aid repatriates
in housing and employment problems. No indication yet of
Communists taking advantage situation.
North Korea:
M12:
(B) Changes in equip: Peoples Army received 5
Soviet tanks late May 49, undetermined number mortars and
rifles 3 Aug 49 at Hungnam ( 3950-12738). and 6 aircraft at
Yonpo Airfield (3947-12732) 3 Aug 49. Security Force Unit
Fourth Bn, Firet Border Conotebulary Brigade, possessed Soviet
weapons 5 Aug 49.
Comment: Extent implementation Soviet aid program
to Peoples Army undetermined, but grant large number tanks
and aireraft considered unliltely. Equipping North Korean
security force units with Scviet armo would tend to simplify
Peoples Army supply problems if Soviets willing to continue
supply bulk of ammo. Would also increase combat potential
security force units.
CM IN 6489
(17 sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.5. GOVERNMENT FRINTING CFFICE 1940 840719

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMIJNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
Page 3
(c) Troop movements, opr: Recent Peoples Army
roop movement rpts mention Third Div Inf and ary units
with 122 MM howitzers at Ycnchon (3806-12704) 20 Aug 49;
unidentified arty bn fr Sariwon (3830-12544) to Haeju
(3802-12542) 6 Aug 49; Second Div Arty Regt in Chorwon Area
3814-12712) 20 Jun 49; horse cav unit approximately 1700
at Yanggu 3 Aug 49; Chinese Communist Force Div (also
reported as unit of 20,000) composed troops Korean descent
at Sinu1ju (4006-12424) during Ju1 49; 4 CCF units, w1th troops
Korean descent, strengths ranging 120 to 2000 in sinui ju
20 Aug 49. Security force unit Fourth Bn, First Border
Constabulary Brigade, reported Yanggu 5 Aug 49. Opr
activities consited of rpts Peoples Army had mined all roads
leading into North Korea by 23 Aug 49 as precaution against
Korean Army invasion. Five truckloads arms and ammo
delivered fr Chongjin tc Chorwon 4 Aug 49. Approximately
3000 hand grenades produced daily at Hungnam mid-Aug 49.
Field Tng Institute operating Yonggang (3852-12520) 19 Ju1 49.
Institute offered basic mil tng to 78o North Korean youths.
Those willing cnter Peoples Army after one month tng had
been released, others retained.
Comment: Tnis hq tentatively accepte 8000 to 10,000
Chinese Comaunist force pers of Korean descent as present in
North Korea. This may conetitute return of bulk Peoples
Army Div carried in Manchuria, but confimmation lacking as yet.
Locations troops unoonfirmed but possibly in Sinuiju and
Kaechon areas, formorly used by First Div, Peoples Army,
with some possibly in 38th parallel areas reported previously.
In view lack of confirmed info concerning stockpiling in 38th
parallel areas and concentration Peoples Army troops in 38th
parallel positions considered suiteble for jump-off, above
movement rpts not considered evidence imminent invasion.
Troop positions reported, ref to mining of roads and previous
rpts of entrenching constitute indications defensive aspect
Peoples Army activities (CInCFE WEEKA 49). Defensive aspect
correlates vith Korean mumers poseibility Korean Army action
against North Korea (FEC int sunmary 2512).
Hand
grenade production
Hungnam unconfiimed, and 3ooo daily
CM IN 6389
(17 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1349
U.S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING CFFICE. 149 - 813719

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
page 4
production figure believed unlikly. Field tng institutes
reported previousiy and appear tc function as combination
inducticn, station and tng center. Confirmed infocon
detaiis o induction, prccessing, basic tng, and assignment
of inductees to Peoples Army units unavailable at this time.
Psycclcgical:
Radio Moscow Broadeasts to Korea asserted that the
S uth Kotran reglme had executed 53, 000, jailed 154, 000 and
axvrested nearly 00. c00 patriots during past year. Unemploy-
ment and peor housing acnditions in the Us were contrasted
with advanccs ailegedly made in USsR. US mil advisers South
Korea were accused of Helping suppress "Democratic" movement
S nth K pot
Radio Pyongyang resume Kim Il Sung speech to supreme
Peoples asse nbly contained usual praise for UssR and North
Kt rea and critisisr: of Scuth Korea and US. US accused of
using 100o men mli mission as device to continue cccupation
South Korea.
Comment: Atks cn US Mil Advisory Gp expected to
contti uo in Coaraunists attempts to force it to leave South
Kocea.
Accusatsons expected to pay little heed to truth.
Pht7ippines:
Political:
(C) Reactiene to impertant events: After Council
c shate mecting, President Quirine ennounced plan for special
seseion srraress s an lened. Quirine repertediy was strengly
advieeo drop pl an convecaticn in viev fact anti-Cuirino ma-
jority in senate had agiced roinstate ousted senate President
Jese Avalino and deposo pre-Quirinc acting senate president
Marino C.enen.
Joso Zulueta defestion to mincrity party sericusly
cademines Goir ime ch.cen in middle Visayas which is home
CM IN 6389
(17 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING CFF1CE 1049- C48719

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
Page 5
Bailiwick Quirino Wing Vp Cand Fernandoink minoritys Zuleta,
Quireno wings Lopez and widow late President Roxas (suppor-
ting Avalino) contesting votes.
Citizens party founded 3rd Sept by Senator Lorenzo
Tanada at Manila Hotel party attended by 3oo delegates.
Tanada opening address promised party dedication to slimi-
nation graft govt circles. No cands of new party in this
election other than one congressional nominee.Party hopes
heve gubernatoriel cand in 1953 and presidential cand by
1957.
Souree comment: Tanade often termed only honest
politician remaining Philippine politics. Reportedly,
Tanada sincere pro-American and has ability and prestige
nec successful promulgation new party but may be stymied
by organized political machines now existent. Tanada stated
nopes obtain 7 Cirizens Purty seats in Senate in 1953.
Mil:
(C) Troop movements and concentrations: Huk.activity
confined routine minor raids, ambushed central Luzon. Huk
courier captured Manila in act delivering Huk and Communist
propeganda documonts; investigation by Manila Police Dept
(MPD) being conducted. MFD states initial results indicate
Huk int network Manile well organized, adeguately staffed
in thet several top Huk field comdrs recuperating fr Central
Luzon campaigns reportedly now Manila overseeing colleetion
funds fr locol Chinese Communists
Mise:
Bubversive:
Canton office code clerk advised Philippine Dept
Foreign affairs thet cipher tebles in use PI diplomatie
offices now availeble to Crinese Communist. Canton consul
CM IN 6389
(17 sop 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
Page 6
requested permission return Philippines in view shaky Chinese
situacion presaging Amoy fall mid-Sept.
National Int Goordination Agency (NICA) rpt atates
2ooo Chinese Communists have errived Borneo preparatory
infiltrating Philippines through Iloilo and Mindanao via
small boats. Additional NIcA to president states Scviets
now directing following campaigns in Philippines: (1) Anti-
American propaganda; (2) Local pro-political activities;
(3) Preparations to increase labor uprisings and strikes;
(4) Aid in money, propagande and arms transported via sub-
marine fr Fort Arthur and Vladivostok; (5) Radio comms
between local Communists and Moscow.
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reactions to impertant events: During recent
Communist meeting at Amemi Oshima, four repatriates related
experiences Soviet camps end called for unity in fighting
capitalists of Amomi and Jepan, Attendance estimated 1o0,
Recent CIc patrol to Kume Shima 50 miles west Okinawa
advised by police chief thet population on island content
present conditions and no political activity noted. Only
source possible disaffection is excessive tax rate now imposed.
Economic:
(A) Proposed economie reforms: Northern Ryukyuan
newspapers proposed free trade between Amami Oshime and
Kyushu as means stopping eurrent smuggling activity.
Mise:
Sociological: Director PublleS afety Dept Mil Govt
rpts that increase mej crimes involving Ameriean soidiers
and Okinawan females is souree grave coneern civilian pelice.
Continued diffieulties wich mil pers may result police resig-
nation.
CM IN 6389
(17 sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—-B48719

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INGOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CX 52531
JOINT WEEKA 50
Page.7
Subversive: Armed pirates seized 40-tons native
fishing boat "Kogya Maru" 9th Sept 45. Boat marked "Northern
Ryukyus Patrol". CIC patrol. sighted unknown vessel same
type and color heading south through Kerama Retto O930,
10th Sep 49.
Air: (Roported by FEAF)
Philippines:
Subversive: Relative quiet continues to characterize
Huk situetion Clark Air Force Base Aree. In Provinces Nueva
Ecija and Tarlac as well es Pampanga only minor Huk raids
occurred during past wk.
Migc:
rc authorities in receipt rpts alleging armed geng-
sters posing as Huks in Angoles, Pampanga and Hermosa (14
degrees 50 minutes north/1g0 degrees 30 minutes east) Bataan.
Note:
Time f1led 160923z
Timo Rec'd DA Crypto center 161429z
Time Rec d SC0 161 4422
ACTION: ID
INFO
AF, NAVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM IN 6389
(17 3ep 49) DTG: 160923Z wVp/B
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-B48719

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.94)
VISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMSEGRTELEGRAM
17
Rec'd September 26, 1949
Action. (L1
B a.m.
Inro:
E
P
FE
DIVISION
POS
FROM
Tokyo
ACQUISIHON AND DISTHIBUTION
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
SEP2 61949
TO
Secretary of Scase
ex 52680, Sept 23 (Army message)
WOERA
894.00(W)/9-2349
of Action
Action Ofrice Sybol
of crricer
J
SECRET FIL
S
H
LLES WITH

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To :
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
MILATTACHE Seoul Korea; Department of Air Force
Nr
CX 52680
Subj is Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 51.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Govt:  Preliminary returns fr elections held 2Oth Sep for
460 members of prefectural Agricultural Land Committees,
10 for each prefecture, indicate conservative forces again
completely dominated elections, which are regarded politically
important. Most cands, of which there were nearly 4 for each
contested seat, ran as independents but are known to have con-
servative leanings. Social-Democratic Party, which is making
all-out attempt rehabilitate itself (CINCFE WEEKA 46), made
important gains, indicating increased popular support. Com-
munist cands, in spite of strong pre-election campaigns,
failed meserably, only two elected. Voting was heaviest in
history, national average 95 per cent. Coalition and anti-
coalition factions Demccratic Party, separated since 8th Mar
(CINCFE WEEKA 23), showing signs reconciliation, following
meeting between Inukai Ken and Tomabechi Gixo. Party
suffered great loss of support during past six months, has
become politically insignificant.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes: Currency 1ssue at 287 billion
yen 18th Sep. Japanese Govt officials deny necessity of
immediate revision of yen-dollar exchange rate because of
pound sterling devaluation.
Those favoring revision mainly
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
126
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1945
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O-848719

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
. SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 52680
230840z
Page 2
private businessmen. Yen pound sterling rate of 1008 to 1
announced 20th Sep.
Repatriation highlights:
Approximately 1000 repatriates fr Dairen, first
to arrive fr Manchuria this yr, are scheduled arrive Maizuru
23rd Sep. About 48 repatriates fr Formosa will arrive Nagoya
29th Sep aboard Chinese vessel carrying cargo. No violence
or disorders occured among last two ship loads of repatriates
arriving fr Nakhodka. Processing of latest repatriates pro-
ceeding without incident.
North Korea:
Mil:
(B) Changes in equip: Peoples Army equip 1n 15th
Aug North Korean anniversary parade Pyongyang included 8
SU-76 self-propelled guns, 2 armored cars, 36 T-34 tanks,
more than 250 Soviet trucks. 4 armored trains reportedly
repaired at Pyongyang prior to 16th Aug 49.
Comment: Rpt on parade contains ref to largest
quantity such equip observed to date in one location. Al-
though confirmation lacking, above is third rpt self-pro-
pelled guns in Peoples Army. Possible that peoples Army
more mobile, more armor than previously estimated.
Ref USMILAT 1608002, 17th Sep 49, capture 6 Enfield
rifles fr South Korea guerrillas.
Comment: previous info stated many South Korean
guerrillas received tng in North Korea (FEC int summary
2547). Possible these pers received Enfield rifles fr
North Korea authorities who in turn received them fr Chinese
Communist Forces after capture fr Chinese nationalists.
Chinese Communist-North.Korean essistance pact reported
previously (FEC Int Summary 2345).
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 52680
230840Z
Page 3
(C) Troop movements, opr: Recent Peoples Army
troop movements mention departure 580 men and officers fr
Pyongyang in direction Namchonjom (3820-12624) 24th Aug 49;
presence First Regt, First Div at Hae ju (3802-12542) 26th Aug 49;
1000 movement Peoples Army and Border Constabulary troops
fr Kumchon area (3810-12628) to parallel area south of Kum-
chon on 10th Aug 49; movement of 3000 Peoples Army and Bor-
der Constabulary troops fr parallel area South of Kumchon
to Kumchon area on 20th Aug 49; entrenchments in Yonchon area
(3806-12704) capable concealing Peoples Army trucks on 25th
Aug 49; and 13 separate trenches for total of approximately
1100 yds in Pyongyang area (3824-12718) on 23rd Aug 49.
Three of Pyongyang area trenehes equipped with telephone
comms and total of one field gun undetermined caliber. Most
of trenches well situated for observation.
Comment: Nature, extent, location of entrenehing
activities reported considered indications of defensive nature
of activities. Dispostion of First Regt in Haeju Area un-
confirmed, although reported previously (CINCFE WEEKA 49).
Location of First Regt at Hae ju and possible supplementation
of forces at Namchonjom by 58o as reported not regarded as
concentrations indicative imminent North Korean action.
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: President Quirino
continuing Southern barnstorming tour thus far visiting Negros,
Bohol, Cebu and Mindanao. Press rpts indicate Quirino gaining
ground Visayan and Mindanao areas although private rpts
allegedly by members Quirino Party tend disprove press pro-
paganda and indicate impressive official reception Quirino
but popular reception weak. Quirino striving cause friction
between Avelino and Laurel thus weaken their hold on Mindanao
and Cebu. Avelinistas concentrating Luzon campaign with
hopes garnering at least 25 per cent Tagalog (greater Luzon)
vote and 15 per cent Ilocano (Northern Luzon) vote. Avelinistas
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 52680
230840z
Page 4
maintain Mindanao anú Visayan returns foregone conclusion
with Avelino assured at least 50 per cent vote. In recent
campaign declaration Avelino dared Quirino render rpt US
trip and stated belief Quirino junket valueless in view rpts
fr Us capitol to effect financial aid to Philippines to be
severely limited. Avelino bid for Congress Labor Organizations
(CLO) support bearing fruit as indicated recent announcement
CLO National President Amado Hernandez to effect Avelino
Wing Liberal Party (ALp) showing more evidence labor sympathy
than either Quirino Wing or minorities. CLO continues non-
partisan policy in press releases but unofficial concensus
reportedly predicts 50-50 split ALP and minorities. Advisors
Quirino camp state President will devote remainder election
campaign to atks on Laurel and Avelino pro-Leftist affiliations
with view persuading voting populace Quirino defeat will
mean Communist victory in Philippines.
Mil:
(C) Troop movements and concentrations, incidents
and opr: Various Philippines Int agencies continue receive
rpts that Hukbalahaps planning coup either 2nd or 22nd Oct
to consist ambushes, raids on Army and Constabulary instal-
lations with series incidents slated for Manila. Huk effort
allegedly to be made in connection Nov elections. Constabu-
lary and Manila Police Dept investigations failed develop
concrete info regarding proposed coup although late rpts
indicate slight increase dissident concentrations on border
Rizal and Bulacan Provinces North of Manila.
Economic:
(A) Proposed economic changes: Philippines Natio-
nals Economic Council has recommended philippines Air Lines
(PAL) loan of 2530000 pesos ($1,265,000 US) for establishment
overhaul plant for Curtiss-Wright propellers and Pratt-Whitney
engines and inauguration servicing plant for conversion C-47
aircraft to DC-3. Loan to be made available to Netional
Deve lopment Co who will use amount
to subscribe additional
PAL capital stock (Ref US Embassy,
Philippines, WEEKA, 17th
Sep 49).
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52680
230840z
Page 5
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Hirara City
Assembly (Myako, Southern Ryukyus), after vote of non-con-
fidence in Mayor Shimoji Toshiyuki, was dissolved by Shimoji
5th Sep. Autonomy committee of three persons presently in-
vestigating charges of inefficiency, misuse public funds and
engaging in private contracting by Shimoji. If substantiated,
charges will result in forced resignation and possible pro-
secution of Mayor.
Reliable Okinawan informant reported that intellec-
tual class considers Vice Governor Matayoshi Kowa, Finance
Director Goeka Choso and Director Public Works Matsuoka
Seiho "cancers of Okinawa Civil Administration (OCA)" whose
removal would help solve present difficulties between OCA
and Mil Govt.
Shuri Branch Peoples Party leader Majakini Yuzo has
announced his opposition to policies of former party member
Senaga Kame jiro and cohorts Arakaki Kokichi and Namahira
Tokuhachi.
Comment: Pro-Communist Senaga purged fr presidency
Uruma Shimpo Newspaper Co 3rd Aug (CINCFE WEEKA 45).
Subversive:
CIC currently investigating rpt that brass shell
casings being smuggled Shanghai by native boats of Itoman
Fisheries Association.
Takare Hajime, owner Okinawa Ernie Pyle Theater
and Naha Branch Manager Uruma Shimpo Newspaper, and his
theater manager, Chibana Shijin, sentenced 5 yrs hard labor
upon conviction illegal possession govt property.
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949B48719

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52680
230840z
page 6
Air: (Reported by FEAF).
RYCOM:
Subversive:
Brads Jewelry Store, Brooklyn, furnished complete
listing of units attached APO 239 (Kadena AFB) by clerk
that APO.
(FEAF Comment: This action is similar to others
of this firm reported re USAF bases in New England. Upon
A-2's request to ascertain possible relevance this info,
OSI sent one wire to Washington to check on firm and another
to Okinawa for check on clerk).
On night 9th Sep 3 attempts made to enter Naha AFB
Bomb Dump, presumably by natives. Interior guards fired on
trespassers. 5lst Installations Squadron warehouse entered
night 12th Sep. Investigetion being conducted by OSI.
Sociological:
Natives incensed over killing native policeman and
wounding second native by mil. 3 airmen fr Fourth Fighter
Squadron arrested on suspicion.
Philippines:
Apparently as result relatively quiet Huk situation
recent wks, restriction Air Force pers to Clark AFB between
hours 1800 to 0700 1ifted as of 1200 hours 17th Sep. Curfew
hours now are 2300 to 0600. Philippines officials reportedly
gave assurance that peace and order will be maintained in
Clark AFB area and neighboring town, Angeles.
Huk members, including females, not active in field
reportedly being recalled by their respective unit commanders.
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 1AN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O-848719

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
. SECRET.
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 52680
230840z
Page 7
A majority of them were allegedly observed heading for
Manila.
(FEAF Comment: This infor may indicate strengthening
Huk Int Organization in Manila).
Huks further reported to have embitious plan raising
"Huk Army" in Candaba swamps to strength 500 men.
Pampanga Governor Jose B Lingad reportedly requested
Lt Col Benjamin Santillan, Provincial Commander of Pampanga,
to release three Huks apprehended in Candaba swamps last wk
during ope "SWEEPER". Through intercession "fellow-traveler"
Fernando Dungca or Macabebe, Pampanga, Governor Lingad like-
wise reportedly requested Col Santillan to release P Galura,
alias Villamor, member of Huk force that assaulted First
Heavy Weapons Co Det of Laput, Mexico, Pampanga, last month.
Latter reguest reportedly granted.
Ramon Ocampo of Angeles, Pampanga, reportedly kid-
napped at his house by dissidents a month ago, has allegedly
"escaped" fr his captors. Is reported that both kidnapping
and escape were simulated in order to conceal fr authorities
true facts situation. Ocampo repertedly given instruction
by Huk Commander, Faustino Del Mundo, alias Sumulong on
campaign procedures and amount of financial contributions
which would favor Nacionaliste Party.
NOTE:
Time filed: 230821z.
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center: 231055z.
Time rec'd Sc0: 231308z
ACTION: ID
INFO : AF, NAVY, PO, SDLO, STATE
CM IN 7651
(23 Sep 49)
DTG: 230821Z
dwn/D
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTIONCOPY
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
2
5
SECRET
Rec'd October 3, 1949
Actlon: OLI
1 a.m.
Info:
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM: Tokyo
To : Jerretary of State
NO : CX 52801. 30 Sept 49 (Army Message)
894.00 (W)/9-3049
JOINT WEEKA 52 FRCF CINCEE FROM JAA
Adtion Addigued to
DalE or At
Aiu  
SECRET FILE
H
SECREST
PERMANENT RECORD COP
HOTATON OF ACTHON TAKEN

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan from JAA
To:
CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
30 Sep 49
Japan:
Political:
(A)
Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt:
Political tempo steps up as Premier Yoshida
returns capital, holds meetings with cabinet and key political
figures. Conf between Yoshida and Inukai, leader of pro-
coalition faction Democratic Party (CINCFE WEEKA 51), indicates
complete cooperatlon between Inukais group, which has 33
Lower house seats, and dominant Democratic-Liberal Party.
Cabinet makes early start on first draft of 1950-51 budget.
In present form, budget totals less than 6oo billion yen,
or 100 billion less than 1949-50 budget. Basic prineiple
1s to hold commodity prices and wages at present levels,
compensating for possible increases in food prices by reduction
taxes on earned income at lowest levels. darge reduetlons in
govt subsidies to business and big increase in rail and marine
freight rates contemplated. Yoshice determined hold budget
totel down, will face considerable opposition within his own
party, which advocates large aporopriations for unemployment
relief and disaster rehabilitation and other politically
popular measurea. Ono Bankoku, one of Demoeratic-Liberal
senior advisers, heads dissidens anti-Yoshida Gp.
Economic:
Nine refineries to be opened for processing imported
orude (CINCFE WEEKA 50)
Handling of 80, 0o tons crude per
month by Jen expeeted.
Woolen goods racion free for S month
CM IN 8958
(30 Sep 49)
101,
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.87)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Fr:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 2
period ending Feb 50. Controls lifted for approximately
half of nations marine products. Currency starts expansion
as rice and sweet potatoes deliveries begin, stood at 298
billion yen 26 Sep.
0
Labor:
Labor Ministey announces organized labor totalled
6. 724 100 as of 30 Jun, of which 22% are women. A11-Japan
Expreas co Workers Union. ll0, O0o members secedes fr Communist-
Cominatad Vetional Congrens of Industrial Unions 27 Sep.
Nortb Korea:
0.1
Changes in orgarization, equip, strength:
Boeont rpss mentjon Sormetion Tth Border
Constaba lary Brigade, loeeted at Hamehonjom (3820-12624) or
Batyon 81 (3013 -12642), s0rangoh eatner 3 or 4 Bes. 
pers
trar etexred vo new umte fv lat ond Brd Border Consbabalary
Brigode cnd possibly fr E sloay Constabulary and Youth
Orgentsetions
Lee Ik Song Cmde
The Oth Ba, Brd Border
Cone sadbe lary Brdgede, co slete of Ga ofsfee va 8s8 men equipped
witr Hoesap Hagant pic les, Prsn submachtne guea, Oe Md and
   76  
Theutsletont snte ws yet t, astopt fopmatton foh
Bovder Conebedalery fragede
 vaay e bove bd
precedins ppta, aeeoptatbee da m de ts e Soh abd Soh
2n dn caoh of the Bet end rd Bordor Consbabulary
Betendes and of the cewsppane or pese an both Beteades
Ptoh Saviet smalt aers
CA D9 02958
(30 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-848719

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 3
(C) Troops movements, concentrations, incidents, opr:
Additional rpt on influx Chinese Communist troops
of Kor an descent into North Korea during Jul 49 (CCFE
WEakA 0) mantlons 10 unidentified units ranging fr 300 to
10,000 pers during same period in S1nuiju (4006-12424).
 cal strength roported approximately 16,O00. Peoples Army
Ist Rest. la: Div, reported in Hae ju Area (3802-12542),
in Aug 9. Approximalely 10,000 Peoples Army Troops fr
Namom (4142 12941), Hembung (3954-12732) and Wonsan (3910-
12726)  ported in wechon (3806-12742), Yanggu (3806-12800)
and 1n. 3604-12810) ereas in late Aug 49. Peoples Army
3ri Dis Hd. 70h, 8th, and 9th Regts in Chorwon (3814-12712),
Pyonge 1: (5324-12718), Yanggu, ard Kumhwa (3810-12728) areas
reapectivel in carly Sap 49. Soviet Mil adviser team
inspected po oples Army batteries, trenches, other installations
1n Fokly -B: (3826-12716)--Yonchon (3806-12704) area during
1-5 Aua 9. Mew two-lane highway reported completed 1 Sep 49
between ho on and Yonehon.
?we ammo storage bidgs loeated
Chorwen ug 49.
Comme nt:
Spts on Chinese Comaanisse, lat Regt dispositlon.
0,too troop concentxatior, bighway corstrueolon, ammo
torege posnts send to sutstantlate previous ppss same
ub,: (ckNers wbekas 48 trru S2 peapectively) Troop
rbrengeho reporued consldered bigh
Accivitles in
Shorwon-Vonehon area continue to appear cofensive in
ature but loeation sould be uoed by Peopaes Army as
seembly crea. Sbovs rpts rege psed as ireonetueive
oviceneo southmard movemert Pne Da Treops Pr Farum
Ied Day Troope fe Wonsan
Peyehoxogiea:
mamates or Pyongvans prieon told in carty 49 that
Sonth wovld savade vs Morth, eoourdans to eecaped potatleal
pr esone.
O1 IN 6958
(30 sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52301
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 4
Comment:
Additional info on api rehension in North Korea
that Korean Army will take mil action (CINCFE WEEKA 50).
Surrent mil activities critical 38 parallel erea (see
ri1) correlated with this apprehension. Also posst le
ommu its using this theme to enlist popular support
or sovt and Army.
outh Korea:
Mi
Incider.t
me Korean Army Air Force L-5 type aircraft
disuppea od cver Noxth Korean territory, 24 Sep, while on
propagand: leeflet dropping mission. Plane piloted by Master
Bemman aeccmpanied by Second Lt, both of Air Force
Airurafr ast ighted procseding direction Ewachon (38c6-12742)
wobllins an flaght at altitude 3oo ft. Radio Pyongyang
submequa siy anncunced L-5 arrived Pyongvang Airrield 24 Sep.
vommert:
r Force recantly engalged in propaganda missions
ver Morth Koree (FEc mNT Summery 2571)
Lirerafe
nssibly sefeoted, but in vlew of its apparens condition
her last seen, engine failure may have occurred.
nst defection or airorare pecurrod 18 Nov 48 (FEc MNT
nummary 2275)
Ret radio ALUsNA, Secul, Lorou number 240c152,
24 Sep 4o, radro pyongyang enhounced arrivni Baltie sucamship
Thonc1 ar th at chineampc (3844-12524) on 22 Sep with crew of
58 moreann, n zef to 2 Us citanone
CH IN 8058
(30 sop 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
page 5
Philippines:
Political:
(c)
Reactions to important events:
After wk of campaigning Visayan and Mindanao
Sectora President Quirino returned Manila. Presidential
aspirants Avelino and Laurel embarked on late follow-up
tours Southern Islands calculated remove Quirino influence
on voters those areas. Quirino continuing denounoiation
Laurcl for occupation activities and leftist affiliations
(re AMEMB, Manila WEEKA 42, 23 Sep). Quirino Strategy
Board attempting discredit Avelino basis irregularities
leading to ouster of latter when Senate president. Quirino
Cp aware changes seriously diminished by Elections Committee
decision both Quirino and Avelino wings entitled use Liberel
Party name and entitled poll inspectors (re AMEMB, Manila,
WEEKA 41, 17 Sep ).
Economic:
(0)
Labor:
Philippines Institute Social Relations,
 id 47 with purpose infiltration leftist labor gps,
pt cu ront activities of Luzon Stevedoring Co will culmipate
in Comination Manila water front within 2 months. Shipping line
mers banding together with hope forcing yield in Luzen
Stevecc ing Co currentiy held over almost all port unions,
Stevecoring Companies, brokerage houses and harbor transporta..
tion facilities.
RYC OM:
Political:
(0) Reactions to important events:
CH IN 0958
(30 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING CFFICE: 1949 --0-843719

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.91)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
cX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 6
Nakamoto Ibi and Arakaki Kanazo, respectively
Mayors Naha and Itoman, Okinawa, are members of committee
appoinbed by Okinawa Meyors Association to investigate recent
convie ion Takara Ha jime for illegal possession govt property
(NCs: WEEA 51). Nakamoto Ibi also reportedly covered
horta 250, 000 yen (5, 000 US dollars) Naha city funds when
as r Takara Kanegoro threatened suicide.
Northern Ryukyus Communist leader Nakamura
? suta  wa recentiy released fr jail and is reported again
a ve mon Communists on Amami Oshima. Nakamura and
loms apwear ts have gained support of living protection
ar oelntion President Minami Taimitsu who is also member
Pwt aima Assemoly
Econcmie:
(C)
Tabor Fovemente:
Olcinawan stevedores and dockworkers at Nahe
reyorte, rective under pre sent labor boss Keluba Kotaro
al logec v ore of wce lthlest men in Okinawa
Workers want
Ueaare inke as steve dove boss. Uehara diseredited with
Olmtnave say  Admtnievmreion by Kokubes aseistant Maeshiro
Shugvo no emarged behaia wath being a Communist
Macshipo
in Fora sr me mber Dssertaa Rute Assistance Association.
Mhegel Poamocam entrant Yu Ton Ho as in eussody
Ti man
 Okin  a) police in connoction shipment brass shell
oo aing: so  ormoee vio Zonagmni Tsland and pr osably thence to
Sh: (  51)
During Cic interview Vu udmitted
paane
lip in ventus vith Nakamoto Shotatsv former police
segean
and now Presldont of Meat Produets Associetion of
Oc nava
Publie Sefety Office of Mil Govt plens prosecution.
CP IN 58
(30 sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING CFFICE 1949-O-B48719

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 7
MARBO:
Economic:
(C) Labor and social movements:
Filipino laboreres in Guam, employed by US Air
Forces and Luzon Stevedoring Co, reportedly are disappearing
fr assigned quarters upon termination contract in order avoid
returning Philippines. These Filipinos alledgedly are working
and living with Guamanians.
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Philippines:
Huk situation Clark Air Force Base area relatively
quict. No unusual incidents reported past wk. peace and order
allcgealy rostored in Angeles, pampanga.
FEAF comment:
Instability situation reflected in extreme measures.
reportedly being taken to guard Philippine President in
current political tour Huk infested Central Luzon. Rpts
indicate Quirinos major theme this region is that Red
agonts Central Luzon actively promoting institution
Soviet Regime.
Presence Huk Supremo Luis M Taruc in Candaba
swamps reported.
FEAF comment:
It is possible Taruc supervising previously reported
strengthening of "Huk Army" in Candaba swamps. Current
Lull Huk depredations preceding coming elections
apparently being utilized for indoctrination and rein-
forcement.
OM IN 8958
(30 Sep 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.5. GOVERNMENT FRINTING CFFICE. 1949 O-848719

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 8
Subversive:
Self-confessed Hukbalahap courier recently
apprehended in Manila reportedly surrended numerous
mimographed Communist propaganda materials and orders for
tuk fieid commanders. One included instructions to organize
and keep in readiness their respective gps for surprise
movements in Manila on election day. Another directed that
Secretary General Mariano Balgos of Communist Party in Manila
shall be known and referred to as "Balcal". Amomg papers
was new Huk newspaper called "Ang Hukbong Mapagpapalaya"
(The Liberation Army).
FEAF comment:
Increased underground activity Manila further
confirms previous rpt Huk preparations for political-
mil action conjunction Nov elections.
Suspected agent of Chinese Communists, Tang Wang
Hee Gen Manager of the Air Travel Service in Shanghai, reportedly
due arrive in Manila. Tang alleged have connections with
unknown Communist elements fr Siam. Tangs assistant, Henry Tee,
is in Manila in business with an alleged Filipino racketeer
and smuggler.
FEAF comment:
Significance Tangs expected arrival Manila
undetermined. In view strength Communist and Communist-
inspired movements Philiprines, Tangs apparent connections
with Chinese, Siamese, and Filipino Communists &ppear
sufficient make Tangs presence in Manila undesirable if
not dangerous fr standpoint US and Philippines security
interests. Tangs mission may be innocuous study or
organization of air travel service between Communist
China and Philipiines.
CM IN 8958
(30 Sep 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-B48719

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nx.:
CX 52801
JOINT WEEKA 52
Page 9
Political:
On i9 Sep 49 Regional Committee number 3 of the
Philippines Communist Party reportedly published its first news
organ, a paper entitled "Titis" (Life Sparks).
In 19 Sept political rally at Capiz (Paray)
Fresident Guirino charged that Nacionalista Cand Jose P Laurels
zecret formula for peace and order carries with it Dept of
interior post for Luis M Taruc. This charge has not been
answered by Laurel.
Note:
Time filed: 300845z
Time ree'd DA Crypto Center 301242z
Time rec 'd Sco 301359z
ACTION: ID
INFO: AF, NAVX, PO, STATE. SDLO
CM IN 8958
(30 Sep 49) DTG 300845Z
mlf/C
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENY PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION COPY
DIVSION OF
COMMWICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
8
SECRET
Action:
OLI
info:
P
Rec'd October 10, 1949
SUR
1 a.m.
FE
05
DOR
DEAPT HT OF STATE
ACQAND DISTHIBUTION
DIVISION
DISTHIPUTION BRANCH
0CT101949
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
894.00 (W)/10-749
NO:
CX 52920. October 7 (Army Message)
JOINT WEEKA 53 from CINCFE
ou Token
SECKET
TAL PLES WITH

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE TokyO Japan
To :
Dept of Army for CSGID Wash DC
Info:
MILATTACHE Seoul Korea; USAF (DA Passes)
Nr
CX 52920
7 Oct 49
Subj is Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 53.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
Govt: Katayama Tetsu, Chairman of Social-Democratic Party,
predicts party will offer vote of non-confidence in Yoshida
Cabinet within next few mos. Party, which is exhibiting
increasingly anti-Communist attitude, feels it has gained
considerable popular spt during recent mos, as evidenced
by results of Prefectural Agricultural Land Committees
(CINCFE WEEKA 51). Katayama thinks party, which now hold
48 lower house seats, would win 150 seats if gen election
were held during 1950.
Comment: Although Social-Democrats are making
encouraging gains, pos of dominant Democratic-Liberal Party.
led by Premier Yoshida, appears secure for time being. Any
developments regarding early peace treaty will react to
Yoshidas favor.
Economic:
(A) Economie changes: Curr issue remains steady.
Coal production excceding guota in all mining areas.
Repatriation highlights:
Fifth phase completed, toral of 61,215 returned
this summer.
Pirst repatriates fr Manchuria arrived in
CM IN 10132
(7 Oct 49)
15
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-B48719

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 2
Nr:
CX 52920
poor physical condition and diseased, rpt Chinese Commu-
nist army lacks medical facilities. Accoring to these re-
patriates, 60,000 Japanese still remain 1n Chinese Communist
areas. Repatriates coming fr Kerova coal mining district
in Siberia comparatively well fed and well dressed. No
difficulties of any sort have been experienced with recent
repatriates.
North Korea:
M1l:
(c) Troop movements, concentrations, opr: Addi-
tional rpt on influx Chinese Communist troops of Korean
descent into North Korea during Jul 49 (CINCFE WEEKA 52)
states 6,000 crossed Yalu River at Sinuiju (4006-12424)
18th-20th Jul, departed Sinuiju railroad station by trein
for Pyongyang (3901-12544). Propaganda spread in Sinuiju to
effect that CCF entering North Korea to cooperate with Peoples
Army. in conquest South Korea. Another rpt states 20,000 CCF
troops of Korean descent entered North Korea 5th-lOth Jul,
crossing border at point about 20 miles East of Tumen (4255-
12950); 4,000 rema1ned Chongjin (4146-12946), rema1ner moved
Southward to undeteruined locations. Other rpt mentions arrival
Pyongyang 11 freight cars crowded with CCF troops 12th Aug.
About half of troops departed Southward fr Pyongyang 13th Aug.
Final rpt states 30, 000 such troops stationed sinuiju, 2,000
at Chinnampo (3844-12524), 500 at Kumchon (3810-12628). Troops
arrived these Locations during Aug 49 and the pers at Kumchon
reportediy have been utilized in fighting near 38th parallel.
Comment: Although troop strengths reported considered
exaggerated this info generally in agreement with several pre-
vious rpts (CINCFE WEEKA 52 and FEC Int Summary 2561). This is
first rpt of ccF troops engaging in Korean border clashes.
Hq, First Div, Peoples Army and Second Regt stationed
sarivon (3830-12544) in ul. First and Second Bns 1atter unit
moved Sariwon to vicinity Chwiyari (3802-12524) 24th Ju1.
(7 Oct 49)
CM IN 10132
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 52920
Page 3
AA Det of about 200 Peoples Army troops located Pyongyang in 1ate
Jul. Unit equipped w1th 20 AAA pieces of aprx 120 MM cal1ber.
Unidentified Peoples Army unit of 3,O00-5,000 undergoing tng
Onjong-Ni (3852-12514) Aug 49.
Comment: Hq First Div and the Second Regt reported
Sariwon previously (FEc Int Summaries 2555, 2516), but only
Hq Second Regt and one bn accepted as located there. However,
above rpt presents possibility entire regt moved to Sariwon aprx
same time, with 2 bns later moving to Chwiyari area. AA unit
reported Pyongyang previously (FEc Int Summary 2570) but this
1s first ref to 120 MM AAA pieces in possession Peoples Army.
Troops reported Onjong-Ni possibly subordinate to independent
mixed brigade at Chinnampo.
Two rpts state Second Bn, First Regt located vicinity
Haeju (3802-12542); third rpt states entire regt 1ocated there
mid-Aug 49.
Comment: Presence of entire First Regt at Haeju re-
ported previously (FEc Int Summary 2579). Aithough unconfirmed,
rpt probably true.
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: President ouirine
began Iwo-dáy campaign Central Luson 25th Sep. Trip orginally
scheduled one wk but caneel led due inereased Huk activity Nueva
Eci ja, Nueva Vizeaya, and Pangasinan provinces.
Next trip sched-
uled Southern Luzon and Bicol provinces.
Quirino-wing observers who accompanied president soutn-
ern trip claim Avelino strength Visayan area greatly overrated.
They state Qulrino failed advance ovn cause and created antipashy
through usa off-color remarks againat Laurel in pro-Laurel areas.
Same sources state Quirino senatorial
cands losing popular spt
Southern areas.
CM IN 10132
(7 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949-O-848719

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52920
Page 4
Avelinistas staying out of Quirino-Laurel squabble
on basis probable damage to both and subsequent gain to Avelino.
Presidential palace source states Quirino after comp1
BIcOL trip will call special session Congress for apl national
bud and election appns thus prevent further political tours his
congressional opponents.
Source comment: Special session considered possible but
improbable as Quirino realizes Congress session prior election
will doubtless see ouster Quirino supporter acting Senate Presi-
dent Mariano Cuenco and reinstatement former Senate President
Jose Avelino.
Payments veterans schoolings, widows pensions, other
categories stopped 3lst Oct, due failure last congressional ses-
sion to provide funds Philippines Veterans Board (PVB) opr.
PVB officials state Quirino failure provide funds within next
mo will alienate veteran voters, majority whom allegedly already
joining Avelino Camp.
Economic:
(A) Proposed economic changes: Mrs Edward Harrison
representing International Firearms Corp (Wash DC) in Philippines
regarding proposed establishment firearms and munitions factories.
Mrs Harrison favorably received by Finance Secretary Pio Pedrosa
who reportedly told her that PI Govt agreeable to establishment
of factories with four yr tax exemption, an uncontrolled export
license and probable financial assistance PI Govt. Mrs Harrison
reportedly plans establish nine plants. She claims possession
International Firearms franchise for Far and Middle East and re-
portedly also will represent Mauser, Marlin, Smith-Wesson,
Thompson, and Remiugton. Phiiippine Armed Forces Chiefs re-
portedly approve Harrison venture. Arms experts to be hired fr
US. No formal approval Philippines Govt yet obtained but believed
fortheoming soon.
Misc:
CM IN 10132
(7 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O- B48719

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INGOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
Cx 52920
Page 5
Subversive: Murder former US CID agt George Murray and
resultant press stories local gun-smuggling ring working between
Philippines, Chinese and Indonesian ports caused concern several
local top brass figures including Constabulary Chief Brig Gen
Alberto Ramos. Latter through desire protect self fr recent
allusions in press stories released statement 29th Sep to effect
no clear cut evidence arms smuggling ring exists. Source
states Ramos will reguest further publicity re case be stopped to
avoid compromising investigation.
Source comment: Ramos statement as to lack o' evidence
appears false as Mil Int Sec of National Defense Forces (Philip-
pine Army), Constabulary, and other sources claim to have evi-
dence clearly implicating Ramos as one of leaders ammo and arms
ang operating between Philippines, South China, and Indonesia.
Maj Hsiung of Chinese National Air Force presently with
Diplomatic Corps Chinese Embassy Manila (ref AMEMB, Man1la,
WEEKA 42) conducting secret investigations Philippines attempt
determine identity Chinese Nationalists allegedly smuggling arms
China and nelghboring countries with principal aim determine
if arms going to Chinese Communists. Philippines Int agents
suspect Hsiung engaged smuggling arms to Nationalist China.
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Uruma Shimpo,
Okinawa newspaper dominated by members Okinawa Peoples Party,
1llegally buying power for opr presses fr Okinawa Ice Plant.
Ice plant generator reported obtained by ice plant fr DAc em-
ployee of Rycom Post Engr. Native employee ice plant making
bid presideney of plant of basis he arranged for generator and ca
obtain add critical equip.
Ikemiya Shui, President Uruma Shimpo and Communistic
member Peoples Party, preparing resign newspaper as result stafr
purge employees known to be active Peoples Party. Purge ex-
pected affect branch managers Kamiyama Kohyo, Kaneji Saichi and
Urasaki Koka ali active in Peoples Party.
CM IN 10132
(7 0ct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1943
U.S. COVEHENT FRINTING CFFICE. 1919- O-84B719

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 52920
Page 6
Investigation non-confidence vote Mayor Shimoji of
Hirara City, Miyako (Southern Ryukyus) not yet comp1 (CINCFE
WEEKA 51). Election new Hirara City Assembly scheduled 4th
Oct. New Liberal Party of Miyako has announced polioy of
opposition to Communism.
Economic:
(A) Proposed changes: On Ist Oct Okinawa C'v1l Admin
(OCA) assumed responsibility opr subsistence program and took
over seven district warehouses of the mil class one supplies
warehousing system. This is test case Okinawan self-govt.
MARBO:
Misc:
(A) Subversive: Reportedly effort will be made organize
chapter philippines Veterans Legion (PVL) in Guam, Hawaii,
Okinawa, Hong Kong, Japan and US. Info allegedly stems fr Amado
Dailo puppet of Amado Hernandez, National President Communistic
Philippines Congress of Labor organizations (CLo). Dailo was
originally sent Guam organize Guam Branch CLo which indicates
possibility Guam PVL will be heavily 1nfiltrated communists if
organized (ref CINCFE WEEKA 44).
Air: (Reported by FEAF).
Philippines:
A-3, Thirteenth Air Force and four visiting officers
fr Air Ministry, London conferred 26th Sep regarding opn1 fsc1-
lities Clark Air Force Base which might be used by RAF in support-
ing or evacuating Hong Kong. Conf held not to establish policy
but to discuss rad aids to Nav, runway lengths, and facilities.
(FEAF comment: This action may indicate that British not cer-
tain they can maintain hold on Hong Kong. Clark AFB logical
British choice as it is geographically much closer to Hong Kong
than nearest British bases in Malaya and North Borneo and politi-
cally and militarily more secure than alternative French bases
in Indo China).
CM IN 10132
(7 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-648719

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
Cx 52920
Page 7
Incidents of ground-to-air firing on c-45 aircraft
reported during past wk. Aircraft, on routine night flights
between Clark Air Force Base and Manila, were fired upon while
flying at aprx 2500 ft altitude about 6 miles Northwest of San
Fernandc, Pampanga. This location is only three miles South-
east of ingeles and aprx 6 miles fr perimeter of Clark Pield at
Dau.
Subversive:
Clark Air Force Base area remains quit. (FEAF comment:
Situation nonetheless remains potentially explosive, since
both Huk armed power around Clark Air Force Base and pro-Huk
sentiment large part of surrounding native population. Recent
rpt estimates 90 per cent male citizens living around Angeles
market place fellow-travelers of Huks. While this percentage
probably too high for area population, past activities Huks
his area indicate considerable civil sympathy for and connivance
with them).
Further info on Communist publication, "Titis", (re-
ported WEEkA 52) reveals distribution to people slum districts
Manila and neighboring towns. Mariano Balgos, Secretary-Gen
of Philippine Communist Party and Vice-President of Congress of
Labor Organizations (CLo), responsible for publication. "Titis"
(live sparks) reportedly made possible through subsidy granted
by Amado Hernandez, President of CLo and concurrently Manila
City Counselor, fr funds furnished by ILwU (International
Longshoremens and warehousemens Union) of Honolulu to help
finance 310.
Note?
Time filed 070921z
rime rec'd by Sco 071233z
Time ree d by DA crypto Center 071138z
ACTION:
ID
INFO
AF, NAVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM IN 10132
(7 Oct 49) DTG: 070921Z
wvp/B
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.90)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUMCATICNS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEPARTNY OF A
DIVISION
ACQUISITION ANI 
DISTRIBUTION BHANCH
5
SECRET
OCT171949
Action: OLI
Rec'd October 17, 1949
Info:
1 a.m.
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
PROE: Tekyo
: Srepeuary or State
No  0x 5303). 14 Oet 49 (Army Message)
894.00 (W)/10-1449
JOT AEKA  FRE INOFE
ontom
on
reor
工

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
·CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To :
Dept of Army for CSGID pass to USAF for Info
Info:
MILATTACHE Seoul Korea
Nr
CX 53031
JOINT WEEKA 54
14 Oct 49
Subj 1s Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 54.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt: Conservative Democratization League faction in Govt
Railway Workers Union (CINCFE WEEKA 46), which is supported
by Social-Democratic Party, won two-thirds of del seats for
Unions National Convention. Communists obtained only 15
seats of 450. Social-Democratic Party planning expel 4
prominent left wing members, lead by Adach1 Umeichi, for
unauthorized meeting with representatives of Communist and
Labor-Farmer Parties. Premier Yoshida, on stumping tour of
Western Japan, told Osaka audience govt is strongly opposed
to any further yen devaluation. Secretary-Gen Suzuki of
Social-Democratic Party contirues speaking trip of chairman
Katayama, which was interrupted by latters illness. Democra-
tic-Liberal Party plens elaborate formal funeral for Saito
Takao, party adviser, who died 7 Oct after 38 yrs service
Lower House.
Economic:
(A) Economic changes:
Govt contemplates raising
lothing ration fr 2.2 1ba to 4 1bs per yr per capita.
Curr at 298 billion yen 10 Oct. Govt plane replace 10 yen
note with new coin next yr. Curr ceiling for yr fixed at
350 bi1l1on yen.
Repatriation highlights:
CM IN 11282
(14 Oct 49)
109
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 1949-O- 848719

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING.
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 53031
Page 2
First repatriates fr Chinese Communist controlled
areas show high rate of illness, largely veneral disease
and tuberculosis. Repatriates state hospitals were avail-
able, but too expensive, and no one had confidence in Chinese
doctors. During the remaining part Oet, 8 ships scheduled
to bring in add 16000 Japanese.
North Korea:
Mil:
(B) Maj changes in equip: According to recent
rpts early this yr USSR promised North Korea 116 acft, 600
trueks, other arms and equip. All acft delivered by 1 Aug,
25 were assembled by 1 Sep and stationed Pyongyang Airfield
(3902-12548), remainder are in process assembly. Undetermined
number teucks fr USSn delivered North Korea Aug 49 and
distributed Peoples Army instls at Onjong-Ni (3852-12514),
Chinnampo (3844-12524). Haeju (3802-12542), and Namchonjom
(3802-12624).
Comment: Soviet-North Korean Aid Agreement reported
Apr 49. Other rpts have mentioned shipment acft to North
Rorea but no evidenee total high as reperted above (see FEC
int summsaries 2396 and 2557)
Possible that some trueks
delivered inaels reported.
(C) Troop movements, concentcations, opr: Con-
centratson j0o0o Peoples Army troops Tecated Namchonjom-
Kumchon 3813-12628) area mid-Aug 49. Equip inaluded trucks,
arty pieces, manks.
Comment: Curr estimate troops Hamehonjom-Kumehon
area 13 2340
Possible number has Anereased but rpt uncon-
firmed
Add rpts concerning presence Chinese Communist
Forre Troops Koreen deseent in North Korea mention 1áooo
Sinuiju (4006-12424)
avea ate Jul and 2000 Chinnampo Aug 49.
CM IN 11282
(14 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE:1949O 848719

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING.
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 53031
Page 3
Comment: Rpt generally agrees with earlier info
concerning such troops in same areas (see FEC int summary
2561). Exact manner such troops utilized presently undeter-
mined although rpts state they are to augment Peoples Army.
Dubious rpt states Second Diy moved Nanam (4142-
12941) to Wonsan (3910-12726) 23 Jun 49 and Third Div Wonsan
to Pokkye-Ri 30 June (for details see FEC 1nt summary 2584).
Soviets instructed North Korean govt postpone
elections originally seheduled for last mo. Latter govt
directed to "absorb" South Kores by end this mo, using
force of erms "when nec", according to leftist propaganda
reportedly cireulated in Japan. Same source states North
Korean Minister National Defense warned Peoples Army of South
Korean intentions tc invade North Korea. Directive exhorted
Peoples Army to be prepared all times destroy invading South
Korean Army. Differen source states former officials left-
ist league Koreans residing Japan claim North Korea will atk
South Korea 5 Oct 49. Source received info fr officials
of rightist gp of Koreans in Japen.
Commen: Rpto illuetrate confiicting nature much of
info received here in recent wks voncerning Rorean civil
war. Moet pts mentiored possibillty South Korean action
against North. Public statements by President Rhee et al
commenting fevorably on Korean Armys capacities probably
taken seriously by Torth. This could explain Peoples Army
troop movements to strategie locales lo or more miles north
38 pavellel and other apparently defensive activities.
Although Oct climatic conditione favorable for mil opr in
Korea, no conerete ir fo has been received which would indieate
eivil wer imminent.
Philippines:
Polstieel:
(C) Reactione to important ovents:
Public alarwed
by assevtion Wacionelista Party President Eulogio Rodriguez
thet bloodshed will oceur ir Quirino Liberal Party (QLP)
CM IN 11282
(14 cot 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.95)
.CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING.
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr
CX 53031
Page 4
commits frauds during election. Rodriguez stated Nacionalistas
have organized combat units composed men not afraid die to
prevent election frauds and counterect terrorism anticipated
on part QLP, Constabulary and Civilian Guarde (CSG) during
election 8 Nov.
Sourue comment: President Quirino reportedly has
ordered Philippines Constabulary (PC) Chief Gen Alberto Ramos
to maintain non-interference attitude and confine PC activ-
ities to enforcing law and order during eleetion.
Rumore continue that Quirino will call special
session congress aprx 15 Oct to provide much needed finaneial
legislation (CINCFE WEEKA 53).
Economic:
(A) Proposed cconomie changes or reforms: Proposal
Sanetioned by Finance Sccretary Pio Pedrose and referred
cabinet for action calls for closing all Philippines outship-
ping port vlth aims:
(1)
Increase volume of inter-island shipping,
(2) Build Forts Davao, Cebu, Iloilo into ship-
ing centers approaehing Manila in tonnage volume and
(3) Pub Maxile coconut oil millere on equal
footang US wesu ecast oil crushers.
(0) Labor mevements: Threatened mtrike 15 Oct by
vooo rad and telegraph operators throughout Philippines
setoled  Oct
Strike ealled off upon promise by Secretary
Fub ie Vorke Proepere Sanidad to seek 500000 pesos (250000
Us dollars) outlay fr vongress to meet unaon demande.
(R A Ml WA 44).
MS
CM IN 11282
(14 Oct 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.92)
. CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 53031
Page 5
Subversive: Hukbalahap political supervisor Cata~
l1on Terac Canlos is in Cebu reportedly persuading steve-
dores and laborera to join Huks.
Source comment: This may be part over-all strategy
calling for wide strike and being initiated through Communists
feetlonn by Hukbalahaps.
Despite pollce and constabulary concerted eifort
uncover rumo ed largo Huk concentration Manila no concrete
evidene to date pointing to much diseussed Oct revolution
by diss dents
Of 50o0 Chinese Manile only small number under
surveillanee. Informart believes Cet ineident more likely
to be steged y Chinese "Reda" than Huik "Trigger Men".
Soeiological:
Cranese residents Manila coneerned over local press
rpt of allegod propoua? by British, American and Philippines
govts to reoognize "Hed China".
Sou e comment: It is believed that e completely
conquered Chava will render stateless nearly 50oooo Chinese
now in Philiopinee. This presenta dangerome probleme
Philippines as Chinese are potential Communists once stete-
less and such gp vould sive Soviet agents an easy vehicle
for aid ng Eu abalahape.
RYCO1:
Pori dcar:
(1) Changeu in gove:
Autonomy Committee Pindings
reault
p wemova? of Shimogi Poohiyuki fr Mayore Job in
Hapara mty, Hayako, Soutbe en Ryukyus 6 Dey 49 (CInoyE WEA
51)
(0) 
Reaetlon to evente: Naha invostors restive
over of ieirn delays in conpleting publie market spensored
by Haha Mayo, Matk mo so Xbi
CM IN  1282
(14 000 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-848719

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.97)
.CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr
:
CX 53031
Page 6
Source conment: Reliable informant believes funds
collected fr applicants for market space used by Nakamoto
and associates to cover city treasury shortage (CINCFE WEEKA
52)。.
MARBO:
Misc:
Subversive: Amado Dailo, Congrees of Labor Organi-
zations organizer, contacted by Philippine Veterans Legion
to aid Legion memberghip drive among Filipinos on Guam
(CINCFE WEEKA 53).
Air: (reported by FEAF).
RYCOM:
Two B-25's enroute Formosa for Chinese Air Force
landed Nahe Air Force Base 4 Oct and departed 5 Oct 49.
(FEAF comment: This makes total of four B-25's
for Chinese Air Forco which have staged at Naha in past mo.
The fira: two of 12 B-25:s which reportedly will be ferried
fr Us to Formosa during next eight moe landed Naha Air
Force Base 18 Sep, manned by US erews with State Dept
clearance).
Japan:
Subversive: Curr rumor in Magoya area states res-
son for Basolthe ration is that oecupation forces are stock-
piling huge stores Japanese-refined gasoline in preparation
fortheoming war between USSR and US. Also, rumored in
Japanese eireles that somewhere in Aichi prefecture is small
arms amme factory authorized by occupetion officlals.
Note:
Fime filed
407592.
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center 1411072.
Time ree'd Sc0 141214z.
CM IN 11282
(14 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1945
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 1949848719

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.95)
.CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 53031
Page.7
NOTE:
46 18 CM IF 1266 (9 Au6) ID
55 1s CM IF 10132 (7 O56) D
14 n 0M 0 10202 (6-000) ID
51 1s CM I 7651 (23 Sep) ID
ACTION:
ID
INFO:
AF
NAVY. PO, SDLO. STATE
CV IN 11282
(14 000 49)
DTG:
14C759z
1rp/5
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE.: 1849— 848719

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.92)
VISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
DEFARTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
8
DIVISION
SECRET
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
Action:
OLX
OCT241949
Tn f o.
Rec'd Cctober 24, 1949
EUR
.a.m.
FE
POS
NR
53159, Loobr 2) (Arny N-asrge)
894.00 (W)/10-2149
Action ssigned to
1/16
Date of Aotiao
ction Orrice Syapol/A
 or urriver
Zilp
Directin to uc/h
SECRET FILEHH
FEB
PEN

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
DA fOr CSGID
Info:
MILATTACHE Seoul KOrea; USAF
Nr:
CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
21 Oct 49
Subj is Joint Army-Air WEEKA.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes
in govt: Moderate and strongly anti-Communist
democratization league assumed compl control govt
railway workers union (CINCFE rad 54) as a result of
4-day national convention of union which ended 17
Cct. Crushing extremist opposition convention
adopted series of resolutione withdrawing union member-
ship fr all affiliated orgns suspected of leftist
tendencies. Convention voted to join new world fede-
ration of free trade unions and wishes to send its
chairman, Kato Etsuo, to initial meeting of new
federation in London. voting of dels showed demo-
cratization league has better than 2/3 majority.
Moderate control of this union, largest and most power-
ful of govt workers unions, with membership well over
half-million, is en important political victory for
cociel-democratio party, which has supported demo-
cratization league since its inception.
Premier Yoshida returned to capital working with
cabinet on final draft 1950-51 budget, which probably
will not be ready for Diet presentation until mid-Nov.
Ail partiea preparing for opening of extraordinary
session of Diet scheduled for 25th Oot.
CM IN 12498
(21 Oct 49)
108
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1945
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
Page 2
Economic:
( A) Economic changes: Curr fairly steady at
296 billion yen 17th Oct. New agreement with sterling
bloc areas will provide important etimulus for Japans
foreign trade.
Repatriation highlights: First ship of sixth
phase arrived Maizuru 19th Oot with 1836 repatriates
fr Siberia. Processing of recent reietriates cont
without incident. Employment of repatriates 1s prime
concern, drive to educate both repatriates and employers
accelerated.
North Korea:
MIl:
(C) Iroop concentration. incidents cha opr:
initlal fragmentary rpts state elements 2 North
Korean border constabulery (Bc) bns supported by
four 122 MM and eight 76 Mn field guns, attacked Korean
Army positions on Unpa Mountain (3800-12528) 15th oct.
ree Korean Army os whlch were involved, reimforced
by undetermined number troops and arty pieces, counter-
attacked and on 17th oct regained pos. Situation re-
ported guiet later peme date. Korean Army reportedly
evacuated 321 wounded troops to Seoul (3734-12700).
Co Thiri ac arigade reported in personal comd of opr.
Comment: South Korean positions attacked lie partly
in North Korea. "This is probably reason for atk. If Korean
Aray forees outnumbered as reported they acquitted themselves
very well indeed. However, in previous ineidents this nature,
initial rpts consietently exaggerated.
Such probebly true in
thie instance.
Based on all rpts received to date, this Hg estime tes
neaber Soviet pers North Korea ae 4500-4700 broken down as
OM JN 12498
(2: 0.t 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-B48719

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
COMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
Page 3
follows: Army, 2,000; Navy, 1500; A1r Force 300-500; and
700 technicians, civ advisere, diplomatic mission, security
pers. For further details 3ee FEC int summary 2596.
Peychological:
Pyongyang radiocast 15th Oct, quoting a North
Korean govt 1tr sent to United Nations, labeled gen
assemblys consideration Korean question and resolution
to cont Uncok activities as unlawful, contradictory to
United Nations charter, and against interest Korean
people. Broadcast stated any decisions reached by
United Natione without participation of North Korean
representatives will be considered "null and void",
and declared North Korea will cont struggle to force
UNCOK fr Korea and unify that country.
Comment: Least expected of North Korean regime is for
it to cont its campaign against UNcOk and other favorite
targets. See FEc int summary 2594 for related North Korean
propaganda.
Philippines:
Political:
(c) Reactions to important events: Informants
and press rpt inceasing electioneering pressure by
three maj political parties. Alleged gross irregula-
rities involve provincial governore and political lead-
ers, Philippine constabulary (PC), special police and
election officials. Such rpts increasing in number
daily and predict armed clashes party supporters in
Manila and numerous provinces. Manila Mayor Manuel
de la Fuente reported dickering vith Laurel party for
cabinet or bureau job in exchange for bolting Quirino
party. Move is result Fuente belief Quirino will oust
him after election.
CM IN 12498
(21 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
page 4
Recent survy determined each party confident of
victory. An informants survey (1-10 Oct) of Manila
and provinces gives Quirino 173ò,000 votes; Laurel
1521,000; Avelino 1464.000. Curr da11y po11t1ca1
expensee reported as follows: Quirino pesos 20,000,
Avelino pesos 10,000, Laurel pesos 5,000 (2 pesos eguals
1 US dollar).
Union Obreros Estivadores de Filipinos whoce
70,000 members control Manila waterfront reportedly
furnishing peeos 260 000 to Avelino and preparing
sample ballots listing only Avelino cands. Avelino
confident of 50 percent congress labor organizations
vote, other half going to Laurel leaving Guirino little
labor following.
Entire 2500 Manila police dept (MPD) alerted 12
Oct as precaution against communist threats to peace
and order. Combat comm net established between MPD
and pC Hq.
Recent presidential investiagtion revealed top
officials MPD including deputy chief, 4 div chiefs and
several precinct chiefs are active Avelino supporters.
As result majority recommended for dismissal. Such
purge would seriously affect MPD adversely for about 1
mo.
Quirino reportedly held conf 17th Oct including
Philippine diplomatic representation to China now in
Manila. Agenda included Philippine pos toward Red
China, including mil and economic aspects.
Economic:
(C) Labor: Nationally owned Manila RR (MRR)
labor trouble and operating deficit caused MRR manager
Segio Bayan state he will recm to Quirino that MRR be
sold private firm for pesos 143 million.
CM IN 12498
(21 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
Page 5
Mil:
(A) Changes in policy: Philippine Army Hg G-2
assigned two new missions:
(1) Apprehend large scale arme smugglers, parti-
culariy Americans. Assigned 150 agents to job.
(2) To apprehend aliens, particularly Chinese
nationaliste, smuggled into philippines.
Several Chinese brokers in Amoy China reportedly
were conniving with philippine Consul in China and
immigration bureau Manila to obtain illegal landing
certificates for Chinese nationalists. At least 10
such syndicates reported presently operating in philip-
pines.
Maj Gen Mariano Cesteneda Chief of Staff philip-
pine Armed Forces presently working for unification
all armed forces with himself as head. casteneda
issued recent statement to close associates that should
bloodshed ensue during Nov elections he would "take
over". Quirino heard of statement and reportedly
assigned govt agents watch casteneda and close associates.
comment:
Correct interpretation Castenedas remarks believed
to be that he would "take over" to restore law and order.
casteneda believed have no desire seize govt.
(C) Incidents and opr:
MPD raid 2nd Oct Palomar area Manila netted num-
ber Huk suspects. All but 3 released. press reported
Luis Taruk in area of raid where Chinese Communist
documents discovered outlining disorder plan in com-
pliance with "orders fr abroad".
CM IN 12498
(21 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
Page 6
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reaction to important events: Peoples Party
Okinawa opened membership drive Naha 16th Oct. Senaga
Kamejiro elected chairman central committee (CINCFE
WEEKA 3á). Yamashiro Takematau, who colleoted oash
deposits fr Naha citizens desiring space in projected
city market 1s reported to have disappeared and may
have fled to Japan.
Alr: (Reported by FEAF).
Philippines:
on 14 oct 49 Phillppine a1r force F-51 while
engaged in joint air-grd opr against Huks, was shot
down one mile north of San Fernando or aprx 12 milee
southeast Clark Air Force Base. pilot sustained minor
injuries. Second F-51 also hit by grd-air fire but
managed to return home base, Florida Blanca Airfield.
FEAF comment:
This most recent manifestation gravity Huk mil
threat not only vnderscores precarious nature political situa-
tion central Iuzon, but frustrates Quirino adms curr attempts
to soft-pedal and minimize eignificance dissident threst.
Incldent aleo reflecte danger US aiceraft which have been fired
upon spasmodically same gen area for eometime.
MARBO:
Another B-25 coneigned to Chinese nationalist
air force landed Guam fr Weke 15th Oct and soheduled
depart 16th oct for okinowa enroute destination pormoea.
CM IN J2498
(2) Oct 49
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O-848719

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr : CX 53169
JOINT WEEKA 55
Page 7
FEAF comment:
This B-25 is the fifth of 12 scheduled for con-
signment fr US to the CAF over 9-month period beginn-
ind Sep 49. Early US delivery of these bombers would
provide significant addition to already considerable
quantitative air etrength CAF Formosa and improve
chances mil defense of island.
Time filed: 210821z
Time rec'd DA Crypto Center 21l021Z
Time rec'd Sco 211116z
NOTE: 54 1s CM IN 11282 (14 Oct 49) ID
ACTION:
ID
TNFO:
AF, NAVY. PO. SDLO, STATE
CM IN 12498
(21 Oct 49)
DTG 210821Z wk/4
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949--848719

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OF
ACTION ÇOPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
20
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
SECRET
Action: OLI
Recd October 31,
071
Info:
1 a.m.
E
P
FE
POS
FROM:
okyo
AND DISTRIBUTE
DIVISION
DCR
TO:
secpetary of state
DISTHIPUTION BRANCH
0CT311949
NO:
53292, Cctober 28
(Army Message)
JOTT  MEA SC PROA CTNOEE
894.00 (W)/10-2849
io A 
daled
Aution Taken
Dale or Action
1/16
8 10 . 1 1/
sant ot vn er 
2e2
SECRET
工

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
CS USAF Wash DC: MA Se ou1 Korea
Nr:
CX 53292
JOINT WEEKA 56
28 Oct 49
Japan:
Politicel:
(A) Important changes cr contemplated changes in
Govt: Govt or ers closure 58 schools operated by League
of Koreans reslcing 1n Japan (Choren), outlawed Communist-
dominated orgn (CINC WEEKA 5C). Other Korean schools
ordered register with education ministry. Only minor
active resistarce encountered, despite loud protests
Korean and Japanene Communists. Legislative activity
resumed as naitional diet convenes. Issue of wage raise
for govt works s aasumes increasing importance. Four
supreme court ustices asked to resign for misjudgment,
impeachment prccsedings considered.
Eeonomite:
(A) Importans changes: Hote issue shows gradual
increace as menth end approaches, stands at three hundred
billlon as of 4 vct.
Repatr uoion highlights:
Recenb arrivala, spurred by Aktiv Corps, show strong
Soviet indost tnauion. prccessing accomplished without
ancident arter segregation of leaders.
North torea:
Pit:
CH IN
13711
(28 Oct 49)
106
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949 -O-B48719

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53292
page 2
(B) Maj changes in orgn and strength: .Strength
of North Korean border constabulary now estimated at 13200,
based on acceptance two add bns plus spt units in first
end third brigades. Further expansion possibly in progress.
Breakdown of accepted strength by maf units as follows:
First and third brigades each have Hq and spt unitsof 600,
plus six space 775-man bns; second brigade strength remaina
at 2700 cons1sting of Hg and spt units of 375, plus three
pace 775-man bns.For further details concerning buildup
of border constabulary see FEc int summary 2603.
Recently captured table of orgn and equip for
North Korean border constabulary bn indicates curr
authorized strength 1173. If rpt true, would increase
authorized strength first and third brigades to more than
7000.
Comment: Although rpt of low evaluation, it is in
consonance with several previous rpts concerning border
constabulary expansion.
(C) Troop movements, concentrat1ons, opr: 60 T-34
and 16 smaller tanks undetermined type reportedly
observeć in. Pecoles Army tank units area in Pyongyang
(3901-12544) 17 Sep 49. Tota1 number tanks reported was
186. Aprx 280 of the 900 men in tank unit observed tng
with tanks same date. Small number tanks occasionally
transported to 38th parsllel areas for undetermined
reasons.
Comment: Thi: is largest number tanks yet reported
in Peoples Army tank unit. Nuaber considered exaggerated as
only 36 participated Pyongyang anniversary parade 15 Aug.
However, 22 tanks reportedly were given Peoples Army by
Soviets Aug and Sep, so total may have reached about 60.
Small grps of tanks previously noted 38th parallel areas
(FEC 1nt summary 2526).
(28 Oct 49)
CM IN 13711
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53292
page 3
Fragmentary rpts state: aprx 30,000 Koreans fr Chinese
Communist Forces in Manchuria entered Sinu1ju Area (4006-
12424) 8 Sep, crossing near-by Yalu River Br1dge in four hrs
Unidentified un1t 900 such trps and four space 76 mm field
uns located Sinu1ju 31 Aug-19 Sep.
Comment: Doubtful that as many as 30,000 made river
rossing during short period reported, partioularly in
1ew accepted number such trps in North Korea. Rpt
concerning field guna significant since it is indicative
trps possibly bringing some arty with them fr Manohuria.
Based upon all rplis received to date this hq accepts
movement of First Div Hq fr Pyongyang to Sariwon (3830-12544)
and the presence firat rugt in Hae ju (3802-12542) Area,
with regimental Hg in city Hae ju.
Philippines:
Political:
(C) Reactions to important events: Highly
valuated PHILAIRCoM solrce commented as follows regarding
possibilities prasidentlel cands:
(1) pro-tuirino sentiment strangely tripled among
ion-political grps grealer Manile Area recently. Heretofore
Por many yes residents grester Manila have voted anti-admin.
Quirino adhere t; cle im attitude is due "re-awakening" of
people; informe i sources opine Quirinos recent favorable
legislaticns regarding govt employees back-pay issue and
speedy reallocabion terants lands probably underlying
reason change in heart Manile populace. No substantial
increase pro-oul ino s: ntiment observed elsewhere.
(2) Leu 1 sti.1 pcpular and influential among
politically minjed mid: le and upper strata Manila society
and ardently supportec by labor grps and religious ongns
CM IN 13711
(28 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-B48719

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
CLÁSSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53292
page 4
with large followings. Additionally, there has been no
"waning of spirit" emong Laurel supporters in the
Visayas.
(3) Avelino has yet to "win. the heart" of the
Filipinc people and should not constitute serious threat
to other cands. A possibility exists for "last minute"
Avelino defection to Iaurel. Source states Laurel
wil win provided elections conducted fairly.
Source comment: Significant among foregoing statements
is one that Laurel win depends on "clean" election.
Comment: A consensns of observer rpts still favors
Quirino by edge 15c, 000 of aprx four million anticipated
ballots.
On 10 Oct Fhilippines Foreign Office received official
comm rr Chinese Communist Premier Chen En-Lai announcing
proclamation Peoples Republic of China and inviting
establishment diplcmatic relations Red China and Philippinea
Reportedly Philippines Gov; will adopt "mark-time"
attitude toward recogrition Peoples Republic in China,
although on surface diplomatic attitude will be ore of
aloofness. pos difficult in view internal policy of attamoting
curb subversive Red plans and activities-within
Philippines. Oisicial Philippines pos future policy in
southeast Asia unicn (Seau) left entirely to discretion
and planning Ur president, Ambassador Carlos P Romulo.
Petition by Philippines Communist Party (PKP)
for holding series rallies Manila prior to elections
in order present Pkp ideas regarding presidential cands
curr clections was refused by Manila Mayor Manuel De La
Fuente. petition was signei by PKP official Guillerma
Capadocis who is also vice-president of Leftist Congress
of labor orgns. Supreme coirt will make final decision.
Court expected uphold De Ia Fuentes action.
CN IN 13711
(28 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949O-848719

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53292
page 5
Press rpts state Avelino rally in San Narciso,
Zambales province, broken up by gunfire of over
1000 rounds allegedly fired by pro-admin elements.
President Quirino reportedly has ordered investigation.
Economic:
(B) Foreign econonic developments: Three man del
he ded by Minister Jose Romero is in London representing
Philippines Interrational Sugar Council. Much publicized
Cuban proposal ror new internatioanl sugar agreement under
serious study by Philippines Foreign Office, govt agencies,
and private interests. proposal intended supersede
1934 London sugar Agreement.
Mil:
(C) Ineadents and opr: All US pers restricted to
Clark AFB fr 0001 hrs 5 Nov through 2400 hrs 10 Nov and
off-base travel limited to essential official and emerg.
Restriction is to protect life and property during election
period.
Air:
(A) Contsnplated changes in policy: Chairman
Lucas V Madamba or Philippines air treaty team, now
in Athens, rpts negotlations completed 6 Oct for Philippines
Greece air treaty. Team o cont to Israel, India and Siam
for conclusion irila treaties. Alr agreement Spain next
on agenda.
Sociolocical:
Philippines Foreign Office seriously considering
enactment of measures to curb increasing influx Chinese
temporary visitors r Hong Kong. Secretary of Justice
opinion sought  cetermine whether Philippines may legally
stop issuance of philippine visas to prospective applicants
CM TN
13711
(28 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-84B719

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53292
page 6
in Hong Kong. In view closure Chinese Nationalist
ports, deportation of holders temporary visas presents
definite problem to Fhilippines. If legality issue
favorably settled Philippines consulate in Hong Kong
will be immediately instructed to stop isauing
temporary visas Chinese applicants.
Subveraive:
Recently captured Huk reveals dissidents in Bataan
now equipped with rad transmitter end receiver sets
and reportedly ere instructed to campaign and vote for
Laurel.
During perlod 13-18 Oct, Huks confined activities
to foraging for food and clothing in Pangasinan, Nueva
Ecija, Rizal, Laguna, ani Pampanga Provinces. Huk
concentrations reported vicinity Arayat, Pampanga, in
Candaba Swamps and in Nueva Ecija are allegedly using
50 cal machino guns but no heavy field pleces in
efforts ccmbat PAF planes and armored PC units. Huk
capabilities reported as:
(1) Divert PC by simulating considerable force in
Cendaba swamps with main body eluding PC cordon and
proceeding Montalban Area in Rizal Province (14 degrees 44
minutes north-120 degrees 07 minutes east).
(2)
Infiltrate Manila in small numbers.
(3) Actively spt Nacionalista (Laurel) cands in
respective areas of opr.
RYC OM:
Political:
(A) Inportant changes in govt: Okinawa assembly
of 23 members hich revolted against mil govt and Okinawa
CM IN 13721
(28 Oct 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-848719

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53292
page 7
civil admin (OOA) 1n Mar 49 (CINCFE WEEKA 23) dissolved
22 Oct. New 13 nember assembly wi11 meet 27 Oct.
(C) Important events: At Peoples Party meeting
16 Oct Naha, Okinawa, Senaga Kamejiro named Chief of
Sacretariat. In keynote speech Senaga urged Ryukyuan
cople adopt strong "Racial front' and cited Chinese
mmunist victory as "bright example for liberation
yulkyuan race" Known Jommunists Namihira Tokuhachi and Uech1
Sakae
took active part in meeting and were elected
to Central Committee. Both believed in freguent contact
Japan Communist Party.
Subversive:
Several  ceat repatriates fr Soviet areas observed
in attendance Peoples Party meetirgs. party leaders
have made stron bié for political spt of returnees.
Okinawan Governor ard police commissioner are aware
of mental attit ide of repatriate: and are preparing
iteep them undsr constant observation. Northern
Ryukyus returree Omaki Patsuo
recently made rabid pro-
Soviet speech.
Rote:
Filed 2809072.
Rec'd by (rypto Jenter 2811502.
Rec 'd 67 900 2812002
ACTION
1D
INFO
AP, AVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM IN
13711
(26 0c: 49) DTG: 2809072 ers/C
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—-848719

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.94)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
SECRET
15
November 4, 1949
Action:
OLJ
4 p.m.
Info:
E
P
FE
FROM: Tokero
POS
DCR
TO:
Becrctary of State
NO:
02 53391
Nov. 4 (Army Hessage)
JO  b  F AA
894.00
action Assigned to  ou
Noted
Action Taken
4
1/
49
1AD
EB
PERMAWN

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF Wash DC
Nr:
CX 53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
4 Nov 49
Subj is Joint Army-Air WEEKA number 57.
Japan:
Political:
(A)
Important changes or contemplated changes in govt:
Communist Diet members issue strong protest as Examination
Committee, Lower House Investigative Body (CINCFE WEEKA 26)
rpts findings holding Communist Party responsible for recent
civil disturbances
Social Democrats expel Adachi Umeichi
for excessively letist activity, reducing Lower House str to
47. Two Communist. two Social Democratic councillors
suspended for invo. vement in Upper House brawl. Premier
Toshida upholds ru ings of Netional Personnel Authority,
placing restrictions on political activities of public
employees.
Economic:
(A) Important changes: Note issue shows increase
at month end, stands at 306 billion as of 31st Oct.
Repatriation highlights:
Interrogations producing info that important phase
activities at Nakhodka consists of instructions departing
prisoners how to conduct themselves during repatriation
process. Russian-instructed Japanese propagandists warn
Pows not to answer questions concerning their employment,
treatment received, death rates, topographical or other
info sought. Pows advised tvist facts if forced to give
CM IN 14840
(4 Nov 49)
112
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
Page 2
answers. Propagandists inform Pow that instructions given are
oased on international law and that reactionaries in Japan
are seeking info about Russia in order start another war.
Repatriates told join JCP soon as they arrive Japan. Enroute
Japan AkTIvS Spt Nakhodka propagandists directives by
instructing repatriates that anyone completing personal
history forns truthfully is violating international law.
AKTIvS on one repatriation ship reportedly collected forms
and checked them, making those who answered truthfully
rase entries. Repatriates reluctance talk in presence
others lends credence belief that repatriates not only
heavily indoctrinated but kept in line by fear. Most have
Tearned conceal eelings in crder gain advantages, such as
better jobs, more security and earlier repatriation; believe
many cort silence for fear reprisals, should threatened
revolutior come.
North Korea:
Mi1:
(B) Mal change in orgn: North Korean Independent
Mixed Brigade (mm) reportedly reorganized recently as div.
Unit moved fr Chinnampo (3844-12524) to Wonsan (3910-12726)
30th Aug 49.
Comment: Although rpt lacks confirmation, redesig-
nation IME as div reported previously (FEC Int Summary 2511).
Aprx 2000 Chinese Communist force trps reportedly located
Chinnampo possib y utilized expand IMB to div.
(C) Tr) movements, concentrations, incidents, opr:
Recent uncorfirned rpts concerning Chinese Communist Force
(CCF) trps of Korean lineage in North Korea mention fol:
3,C00 stationed undetermined location between Hoeryong
(4225-12945) and Chongjin (4146-12949) mid-Sep 49; det of
400 which was 1ocated Ungg1 (4220-13020) Sep, part of
unidentified diy which arrived Nanam (4142-12941) early Aug.
Div of 10, 000 1ocated Pyongyang (3901-12544) Aug. Aprx
23,000 arrived Nanam 1st Oct.
CM IN 14840
(4 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
Page 3
Conment: Rpts concerning CCF trps in northeastern
corner North Korea partly spt info relating to div previously
reported at Nanam. Last rpt listed above very doubtful.
We do not accept aggregate totals entirely as probably
duplicatory in same localities.
Herad USMILAT Seoul, 290300Z, 29th Oct 49 pertaining
Kangdong political school plans for sneding guerrillas to
South Korea.
onment: Separate rpt states school plans send
3,O00 graduates to South Korea during Oct 49. Although
number i dicated not confirmed, several recent rpts indicate
probabil ty that North Korean Govt will intensify its sub-
verslve ampaign in South Korea during winter mos while
further strengthening its armed forces. This is most logical
strategy for maintaining "war of nerves" pressure against
South Korea during approaching bad weather mos. Communists
at same time probably hope to create conds sufficiently
chaotic to afford opportunity to overthrow South Korean Govt.
Philippines: Political:
(A) Reactions to important events: Neutral observers
bslieve errorism wil be determining element in ontcome of
elections whieh reportedly will be bloodiest in history
Philippi  polities. Probability that Quirino Wing Liberal
Party (Q ?) wil) win through fraud presents possibility
that opp sition parties may unite with subversives and start
civil diaburbances.
uirino reportedly plans declare emerg during
election: to make possible the use of Philippines Constabulary
(PC) and S? police during elections to intimidate opposition.
acionalista presidential cand Jose Laurel denied
politica opponents charges of wartime collaboration with
Japanese with stetement he was left behind by President
Quezon to sushion impact of Jap invasion.
CM IN 14540
(4 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
-INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
Page 4
Iloilo, Panay, reportedly become haven for refugees
Ir province of Negros Occidental in escaping what they claim
is reign of terror. During one-wk period 20 innocent civs
and minor ofls reported murdered and others imprisoned with-
out bail in Negros Occidental. 3oo families of Nacionalista
adherents reportedly blacklisted and slated for liquidation
or arrest to prerent campaigning. Governor Lacsons pro-
Quirino forces reportedly will make move to neutralize
Nacionalista voters, regardless of local PC orders, on 6th,
7th, 8th, and 9th Nov. SP police reportedly are threatening
known Nacionalintas. (Ref AmEmbassy, Manila, WEEkA 47).
Blackouts and cirfews are established various towns and
provinces. Heuural observers believe that if following steps
taken b oodshed can be prevented or minimized: (1) Sincere
action by Quirino to enforce election laws. (2) An appeal
for Un obsever teams (suggested by Nacionalista Party
leaders) ) Im disarming of armed civs (suggested by
elections com).
Comment: None of above proposals for prevention of
ploodshed are be ieved possible of implementation at this
late date.
Economic:
(B) Economie developments: Files of Bureau of
Mines, Manila, indicale uranium in pitchblend and ore has
been reported by mine-awners and prospectors in fol gen
locations: Zamba es, lasbate, Mindoro, and Palawan pro-
vinces, Siqu jor Island near Dumaeguete, and Oton near
Iloilo. Samples fr soveral areas sent Bureau of Mines re-
veal nothing substant al. Mine-owners representatives and
Manila businessman Goazalc Espine expressed willingness show
lccatior of alleged uranium mines and talk terms any inter-
ested party preferably American. Bureau of Mines officially
disclains existence of deposits tut will cont attempts con-
firm rpts despite lack funds.
(C) Labor povements:
Prilippines Long Distance
Telephone Co (PLDTc) workere starding firm on demands wage
CM IN 14340
( Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1945
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O-848719

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
CX 53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
Page 5
increases and racations with pay. Believed PLDTc workers
will strike 1f management refuses terme. (Ref AmEmbassy,
Manila, WEEKA 17).
Mariano Balgos, Secretary Gen of Philippines Com-
munist Party (Kp) end Vice-President of Leftist Congress
of Labor crgns (Cio), repertedly is attempting foment world-
wide sym athy trike of pr nters unions because of printers
strikes eains: manegement in Italy and Pakistan.
Subver:ive:
!hs heps cont foraging for food, clothing and
campaignins  acionalista Party in Central Luzon. Huks
still exy( inliltrate Mani a during elections. Manila
police sicy i ai vehicles on main streets for identifi-
cation. Ar si  martial law prevails over city. Normal
police rc  avily rainferced ostensibly to prevent
long-thr:ate  ection-time incidents.
FYC OV
Por iti cal:
a icns to important events: Informants rpt
indicates i w people confused regarding reasons for
dissolut  csembiy end appointment new advisory body
(CINCFE  5) New members apparently do not inspire
confiderl administrative and political acumen.
Okinawa  r Tma Shimpo" allegedly quoted female
nember   n s say ing "more worried than happy over
tor app
sscably dissolution probably based on
assembly regarding MG attitude domestic prob-
lems (c(1 3) and resultant mass resignations.
CM IN 14840
(4 NCv 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.5 GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 1949--O-B48719

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX 53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
Page 6
Shimoji Toshiyaki, recently ousted Mayor of Hirara
City (Miyako, Southern Ryukyus) has withdrawn fr mayoralty
race (CINCFE WEEKA 54).
It is expected that Civil Governor of Okinawa will
suspend Nakamoto Ibi and Matayoshi Kaei, Mayor and Assistant
Mayor of Naha, pending comp1 police investigation alleged
misappropriation public market rental money (CINFE WEEKAs
52, 54 ari 55). Nakamoto 1s member Democratic Alliance and
one of lcaders recently dissolved assembly.
Feonomic:
(1) Proposed economic reforms: Sale of surplus
electric power tc Maha residents by industries discontinued
pending iteome police investigations to determine legal
ownership power generators (CINCFE WEEKA 53). People
resent return to "lamplight living". Students reportedly
seriously affe ted by loss study time. Peoples Party
leaders capita izing on pub ic discontent by saying US
gradually withdrawing aid to Okinawa by decrease rationed
foods and stoppage power supply.
Comnen: An observer rpts all electricity used in
native hc nes obtained illegally by payment exorbitant rates
to persor controlling power generators.
P VRBO:
1 conom.c:
3) Procosed economic development: Guam House of
Assembly haninously passed bill for construction of com-
mereial doek for Teland of Guam.
abvereive:
1 eftis: elements among Filipino civs being discharged
fr US Arr emp oyment on Guam reportedly are encouraging the
filing o many complaints with Philippines Dept of Labor.
CM IN 14840
(4 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY . O.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr :
CX·53391
JOINT WEEKA 57
Page 7
Comment: Leftist Congress of Labor orgns (CLo)
of Philippines has long been suspected of labor agitation
on Guam. Filipino laborers on Guam offer fertile field
for Leftist propaganda as most averse returning Philippines
where wage scale i3 lower and unemployment mounting.
Sociological:
Reliable source rpts Guam Dept Customs and Immigra-
tion presently searching for 60 Filipinos and one white
former civil service employee all of whom failed leave Guam
as scheduled upon terminatior jobs during last 1) mos.
Customs inspectors believe many Filipinos hired as house-
boys Guam dependen: housing areas.
ACTION: ID
INFO
: AF, NAVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM IN 14840
(4 Nov 49)
DTG 040919Z
Jdw/B
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.89)
UNICAIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACTION COPY
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
SECRET
Action: OLI
Info:
Rec'd November 14, 1949
E
1 a.li.
P
EUR
7E
POS
LOF STATE
DOR
DESTRIBUTION
FRO: Tokyo
DN
NBHANCH
To : Secretary of State
0V141949
: CX s3503, 12 Nov 49 (Army Measage)
T K 5 R 
894.00
nction Asg co
uted
Action Taken
(W)/11-1
e ot mcrion
1249
SECRET FILF
T!
工
PERMANENT NLOOND CODY
PHTRALFILES WITH

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army For CSGID Wish DC
Info
CS USAF Wash C; MA Se oul Korea
Nr:
CX 53502
JOINT WEEKA 58
12 Nov 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in govt:
In delivering important policy speech to Diet 8 Nov, Premier
Yoshida laid greates emphasis on Japan's desire for early
peace treaty. T kin usually optimistic view, Yoshida
declared country s u armei state was best  guarantee of
security, promisoi ax reforms, disaster rehabilitation,
and unemployment rel ef. He reiterated govte determination
to hold to present yen-lollar exehange rate, held small hope
for boost in civ wages, decriel "terroristic minority,
elements" and hoped extremisos will return to moderate fold.
Further stated, the act that many Japanese still were held
in Siberia and China as a calse for profound anxiety. In
attacking speech. secretary-Gen Suzuki of Social-Democratic
P.rty, oppoaitior len ier, saii that people could not be
relieved of anxlety regarding national security by Yoshida's
statement, while che  eman Tomabechi of ant1-coalition faction
of Democratie party  mid Japan les red not a separate peace
treaty, but a treaty with all the Allied Powers. Communist
apokesman Shiga cla mad Yoshida favored peace treaty
axeluaing Russla anu hina, accused him of Fascism. Movement
for re-unificaticn mocratie party gathers momentum as
soalition Demoera tn  dicate chagrin at delay in conservative
nerger (CINcFE WEfa ). Conservative Jupan Federation of
Trade Unions veera  t owarI ant: -Communist natlonal
congress of indurtr unions indicating possibility of
urited anti-Communiot labor fcont.
CM IN 1613.
(12 04 49)
107
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1943
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53502
page 2
Economic:
(A) Iimportant changes: Curr stood at 299 billion
yen 7 Nov. Vessels returning fr newly authorized fishing
grounds indicate heavy catches. Govt purchases of curr
rice crop reach 50 million bushels 31 Oct, 14 prefectures
compl full guotas.
Repatrlation highlights:
Editorials in Communist organ "Akahata" indicate
rowing Russlan concern in interrogation of recently
returned repatrlates.
20 of total 35 staff members of "Nippon Shimbun",
Japanese Newspaper putlished in Khabarovsk, now have been
repatriated, practica ly all exhibit markedly recalcitrant
attitude.
North Korea:
Mil:
(B) Maj change in equip: Fragmentary rpts of low
eva luation state fol coneerning shipment of equip into North
Korea: 14 vanks 1oaded on train at Wonsan (3910-12726)
6 Oct 49 to be sent Pyongyang (39o1-12544). 16 Soviet made
tanks arrived Pyongynag by rail 18 Sep.  tanks and
15 trucks unloaded at Wonsan for People's Army 17 Sep.
Comment: Although uneonfirmed, rpts are in
consonance vith eirlier info uhich indicated People's Army
tanks being inereased in number (Fne Int Summary 2598).
(c) Trp movements, coneentrations, opr: People's
Army Second Diy hq reportedly located Wonsan 27 Sep 49.
People "s Arny "Pifth biy ', formerly independent mixed
brigade, located Ch nnampo (3844-1<524) Sep. Hq First Div
moved fr Sariven (3830-12544) o Namehonjom (3820-12624) Sep.
Third Div Arty Regt 1 cated Pyongyang (3824-12718) area 30 Aug.
CM IN 16131
(12 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-648719

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53502
page 3
The Ninth Regt, Third Div, stationed Kumhwa in Sep.
Undetermined number tanks stationed along 38th parallel
in Aug, with majority in Haeju (3802-12542) area.
Comment: Foregoing rpts emphasize probability that
North Korean armed forces receiving substantial increase
equip, and indicate add units possibly displacing southward.
Some details considered exaggerated but on the whole indicate
further consolldation of units in 38th parallel areas.
(See next para for add info bearing on possibility
expansion independent mixed brigade).
Aprx 15,C00 Chinese Communist force trps (Koreans)
reported in Chongjin (4146-12949) area 1ate Aug. Two
recent North Korean deserters interrogated and one stated
no Chinese Communist Force (CCF) trps in Pyongyang as of
28 Oct 49 but he had heard of the arrival of two cCF Divs,
one at Sinuiju (4006. 12424) and one at Nanam. In Sep 49
second deserter had heard one CCF Div was at Sinuiju, with
reported strength 15, 000 to 20, 000. Source stated he observed
"greatly overstrength" CCF Regt at Sariwon in Oct.
Comment: During last 6 or 7 mos, rpts have been
received stating CCF pers of Korean lineage have entered North
Korea for purpose bo stering People"s Army. Although many
rpts exaggerated and duplicative, over long period of time
this fragmentary info has revealed credible pattern. It now
appears considerable number such trps have been incorporated
into People's Army, both as units and individuals. Rpts,
however, are so liverse as regards strengths that firm
estimate of number abscrbed by People's Army units can not
be made at this time. Independent mixed brigade at Chinnampo
may very well be in process of being increased to
divisional size through augmentation by CCF trps. Recent
rpts justify increasing our earller estimate of 8,ooo to
10, 000 such trps in North Koren (FEC Int Summary 2561).
Number now estimatel 10, 00o to 11, 000 in Sinuiju araa and
4, Coo to 5, 0o0 in Nanam area. Those in Sinuiju area
may be organized as liv, possibly unidentlfied People's
Army Div currently carried in Manchuria. In any event,
CM IN 16131
(12 NOv 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53502
page 4
even though exact orgn and strength undetermined at this
time, accepted presence 14,000 to 16,000 adds materially
to combat poten ial North Korean armed foroes.
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Reactions to important events: Stories
forecasting ele vion violence, police reinforcement in
trouble areas, and use of special police by provincial
governnental agencie: continued to dominate news in
Philippines prees. Exec order issued by puirino limits
carrying f trearms be ween 1 and 20 Nov to those charged
wlth preserving peace and order and holders of certain
specia.. permits. hilippines constabulary officers under
orders to pick up arms in accordance with Quirino ban
failed to impound Thompson sub-machine gun belonging
to Nac onalista cand jose Laurel. who claimed opponents
"out to get him" and needed weapon for self-defense.
Laurel reportedly confined rospital several days last wk
with bronchitis. Ei ter post election recriminatlons
and fraud accusaslons anticip: ted. ofl result of elestion
xpeeted to be elayed by typhoon damage to comms in
outlying areas.
Philiopines Commurics Party (Pkp) political
director Cuille mo Capadoeis filed a writ of mandamus in
aupveme ocurt amuirs. Manile ayor Manuel De La Fuente
claiming latter bad no autherity to deny right of peaceful
assemb y when ho refused.perm seton for
a PKP meeting
in Man 1a 14 ce (CINCFE WEEK/ 56), Capadocia stated that
present PRp conssitusion is d stinctly differnt fr pre-war
PXP staauture w teh mupreme cc urt outlawed. De La Fuente
plecded thas PR be cutlawed again but wants cese sus pended
until electton pxoltement abates.
Laure and Avalior reportedly absent fr Manila
and poes b lity they may be or ganizing armed grps for
ON IN 16131
(12 Nov 43)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAM 1949
U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-B48719

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.95)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53502
page 5
retaliatory act:on in event Quirino elected by fraud.
Usually reliable source rpts hat an organized plan
exists for assassination Quirino if latter elected.
Eccnonic:
(C) Labor movements: Threatened strike by
Manila ciiy laborers not expected materialize as
laborers are reportedly avare of Mayor Manuel De La Fuentes
determination to disoharge trikers as means weeding out
communistic employees and reducing surplus city labor.
Cecilio Lino, President Philippines covt Workers Union, was
unable persuade union laborere to strike.
(4) Proposed econonic developments: Philippines
National Ecoromle Council (IAcocc) has released 7 million
pesos (3.500,000 uS dollars, to activate "tractor poo1
program" vhich vill begin substantial mechanziation
Philippines agriculture by esrablishing tractor "pools"
at strategis points to better utilize acreage for food
productlor.
RYCOM
Political:
(0) Reaeu ons to important events: Merits of
recently aopcinsed Crinawa asrembly members continues to
be publiely discussed. people s Party and Leftist
Demoeratic Alliorce attempt ing disered it appointees.
Reliable iote iddica e new ussembly members take appolntments
seriousiy and intend make honest efrort spt and advise
Okinawa  verno on vital losues (C NeFE WEEkA 57)
Nakamoto Mbi and Mat ayoshi Koei Mayor and Vice
Mayer of Nana, have been cust: d (CINGFE WEEkA 57) and are
in gall avaltins trral on fol 4 eharges:
1 withhold m: irre fr oos property
eustodian.
CM IN 16131
(12 N V 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
NCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53502
page 6
(2) Unauthorized collection of funds,
(3) Illegal possession US govt property, and
(4) Illegal use of land under contro1
property custodian.
Election new mayor to be held 20 Nov 49.
Subversive
Two Ryukyaans are re portedly in custody of
Amami Oshim (Northern Rvukyus police charged with
dlstribut ing courte  eit "B" type curr of l00 yen
denomination. 340,000 yen (6000 US do1lars) 18 reported
so have been printed cet 49 70. 000 yen (1 400 US do1lars)
1s alleged co have b er confl cated recently by Northern
Ryukyus mil govt. olice rpt purpcse of counterfeit curr
was to purchase suga fer Jepanese black market.
ACTION:
ID
INPO:
AF, NAVY. ), SDLO. PATE
CM IN 16131
(12 yo. 49)
DTG 120605z /D
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—-848719

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.94)
DIISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
18
SECRET
Action:
OLI
November 18, 1949
Info:
3:30 p.m.
E
P
FE
FROM: ToITe
FOS
DCR
TO:
Sporetary of State
04 S3581 Hov. 18 (Army Nessage)
B D D 59 Prm SAN
894.00
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ACQUISITION AND DISTRIBUTION
DIVISION
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
NOV1 91949
ection Taren Mate
8
49
SECRET FIL
FEB
工
H
PERMANENT RECORD O
TUHED : CENTRAL FILSS WITH
CTOTAKEN

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.89)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET.
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
Prom :
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
Dept of the Army for CSGID
Info :
CSUSry Wash DC
C. 3531
JOINT WEEKA 59
18 Nov 49.
Japan:
Policicals
(A). Impert nt clanges or contemplated changes in
GoVts
Political cirslos mourn sudden death upper house
Prenident Matsudaira Tsuneo. respected elder statesman and
sareer diplomas, Sate Waotake member Conservative Green
reoso Soeiety and elso caveer diplomat: elected Matsudaira's
ccesoor. Speculction on ponsibility early peaco treaty
aches high pivch. Communists volse opposition to treaty
sithcue partaaspeticn UssR Red China. Much diseussion
conters on consbitution clause cutlaving war and armed forees.
Comservat ive slemente voiee vlew separate peace with Us
Peasible. Supplememtary bud shnvelvang 36 billion yen sub-
m.tted to Dieb, rlls for 2o billion tax reduction. Coalicion
D moerats step ur drive for merger wath Demoeratic Liberals
ar courter-measurs asainst Demccretis Party unirication
BROVERRODEE
(A). Smpombpor ehangeus Cuor contraetu steadity
et Yev s  t Mo 2s.949 million yen an eir
sulatsom woost plce purven empeetee despite rocent poor
vatber. Cacsare c
some Bma?l mines and seattered labor
  ubos crope son pupus 2op during earsy Nov
Repetrietsen hachaaghtss
Jupanase pubis opinion egain reachee hagh pitch as
wmsoes cavie and we et ts don grpe send representebives
oN IN 1700"
C16 NoV 49)
108
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAH 1949
U.S. COVETMLAT FRINTING CFTICE: 1219-O-B48719

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.91)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET.
TNCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
N
CX 53531
JOINT VEEKA 59
Page 2
to Soviet Embasay to question USsR repatriation statistice.
Soviet meply cxpresses regret that Japanese people have little
faith Soviet figures. Chinese mission petitioned for return
of all Japanese. Korean and. Netherland missions, Diet and
Tol yo neuspapece also planning nationwide repatriation
accelleratlon drive for Dec. Japanese dailies editorialize
on possible fate Kwantung Army, failure USSR to furnish info
on dead. Communist organ "Akahata" as usual belittles
reyatriation figures of Japanese Govt.
Worth Kerea:
Mil:
(B). Maj chenges in orgn, strengths Add info on
7t: Border Constaouiary (Bo Brigade indicates Hq located
Sil yon-Mi (3s13-126ka). Brigade reportedly comprised of
5 bnn. a of watch transferrea Er Firet Bo Brigade, 2 fr
Third Bo Brigade end  Ar Railroad Constabulary Brigade.
o erted str of brigade is oprx 4,c00. One bn reportedly
Lor ated Sibyon-Mi lccabion of other  bns undetermined.
Comment
Existonce of this beigade is accepted but strength
own, dssposit ton premain undeteumined. Extent which orgn
h s unte inevease overatl to str not lmown at present since
bao vepovtedly arawm mr othes begedee and may or mey not
bave been replaeed by res brpe Fno ant surmary 2624 for
footrer detess
Captupved tabie of opgn and equip for Firet Ba. Tth
Ers gade negeeses euvhevized str 76 officers and l1o3 en-
baotod mmom an weperteduy orerstrength en goth Aug g with
wowel ley. boion ros weveaked by rpt.
com .
OM  37094
(18 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.92)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET.
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr°:
CX 53581
JOINT WEEKA 59
Page 3
Previous rpts have indicated BC bn stre increased
beyone accented str of 775 (F0 int summaries 2573, 2603).
Foregoing rpt indication of increase in BC bn strength but
nt conclusive since al! bns may lot have same table orgn
end equip. (FEC int sunmary 2625 for further details).
(C). Trp movements, concentrations, opr: Hq First
Div, Peoples Army (PA) reportedly moved fr Sariwon (3830-
12544) to Namahongjcm (3820-12624) in Sep. A regt of PA
ank brigade" stationed near latter town 27th Oct. First
v "n regt" meported at Kaumchon (3810-12628) 27th Oct.
En wit undetermined mumber tanks reported at Chorwon
(3814-12712) 150h Sep.
Comment
Uhile such movement Fiset Div Hq Would Further con-
centrate the aiv on the inportant corridor between North and
South Keret, evidenes ls net sufficient at present to accept
e movemert Che term "gun regt" probably refers to First
Day Arty Roge, presenting possability that regt 1s now
Lecnted Kumehon area. Ref to tank regt at Umohon and bn
et ohomwon indicates PA tank unit (carried as regt at
Prongyang) may h ve been panded. Number of rpts of Soviet
tomks auded to mn in resene months londs spt to this pos-
2y (  summey 2014)
Three traine composed uf 63 box cars and 4 passenger
soro voportedly transporter Chanese Communtst force (ccF)
trpn south ard  S2nuaju 4006-12424) 5-6 Aug.
"121st
Roge' of Lee Homs 1wnng Unts 1ocated Haege (38o2-12542)
Sub Sop
Wieh no poo-man regt were ay 76 Mm field guns
Unit ontered at Sinuiru 3d Aug.
proeeeded te Pyoeyes
thonee to Haoju on 8th Bept.
Cormments
This is Further inlication unidentified PA Div,
comrmed an Hapahuraa may re in Morth Komes, Equip reported
4 IN 17094
(18 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET.
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nx
CX 53581
JOINT WEEKA 59
Page 4
represents almost 2/3 that required for PA Div Arty
Rogt.
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
t and in domestic and fcreign policy: Philippine Con-
stabulary (pc) Hq states leck of rpts of incidents indicates
presidential elsction was quiet. Staterent conflicts with
videspread pts r meny sources which elaim election was
characterized by murcere, ambushes, assaults, kidnapinge,
ouimidation of voters by authoritles and dissidents, bal-
lo stuffing, felse regletrations, reporting on non-existent
precinets. instances of pressure on Govt ofls by administra-
ive pere s) force aps of Guirine, and fraudulent returns.
Dept of Foreign Affsirs assigned Un President Cerlcs
 Romulo to plan proposed Southeast Asia Union (SEAu). An-
menneuments to e made by Guirine but prepared by Romulo
stars. smay setion reporteely will be in full swang by
30rh Nov 49: nc or? vlows cr plans to be published until
Sluse Un Se Ansombly. Roalo bslleves movement can be
scecensful. Beguio etfercd as Beat SEaU meetinys but dels
to be consulted for final deeasfon.
Dr Jose P Laurel era Senater Jose Avelino conspi-
anoustay abs nt fr homes for 2 days fol election. Two re-
table sources reporeed independently that Laurel end Ave-
amno wuapected of organszing armed mobellion if Quirino
eleeted. This suspiclor. nes suby publle aissusaion as
revult dlesemiretien om Fil ipano newseasto.
Nacttonal lsta Party pe tisaoned election som to arnul
Pasults in Wavite proranee in fiest formal move to counterect
eleccten fr.uds.
118 0749
0n N 17094
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 19490-848719

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.93)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET.
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
8
CX 53581
JOINT WEEKA 59
Page 5
Philippine Govt reached agreement with Indonesia.
Ben Nov extending surplus war material credits of 2 million
sos (1 million US dollars). Agreement signed by Indonesian
ister Dr Heling Laoh and Philippine budget commissioner
Pis Joben.
Dept of Foreign Affairs announced 1st Nov Philippine
vt will extend credit to Indonesia for purchase locally
mde textiles, The Dept alac announced Laoh mission ear-
ked an estimated 300,000 pesos (150,000 Us dollars) of
mueplus transportation and cemms equip for early shipment to
Jogjakarta, Java.
Econonic:
(B). Foreign economic developments: Philippine
uasular mission will open in Batavia mid-Nov 49. Mission
n headed by Vicente  Pastrana who is charged with expand-
 bilatera trade. Trade pact on berter basis contemplated.
(0). Labors
Propooed strike of Philippine Long
tance  Mephone Co Worlkers Uaion scheduled for 7th Nov
s stopped when Ccurt of Ludustrial Relations, Judge Arsenio
tolden, legued injuetion against walkout.
11
(B). Maj changes in emds It in rumored that PC
Mie?, meigadier Gen Rames, may be relieved of cmd due to
 aged ladk contsol over political activitiee of Po pers.
Preas stated Sth Now that Po charged Lt Col Napoleon
Sorlmmo. PJ bn comdr, (Embasoy WEEkA 7) with "conduct
mecomsing an officer" and "viclation of mil rules and
 ulatione" Defense Counsel Senator Vincente Frencisco
muted he would not fale habean corpus wrie. "Nenita Unit
c banded on 4th Nov by orders of Brigadier Gen Ramos. Mem-
a being sereened to el iminate those involved Negres Oc-
antas scditon case Ind leationm are that Loyal trps will
pleced in a new unit upcn compl of sereening.
17004
(1.8 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949○-848719

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.91)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr ?
CX 53581
JOINT WEEKA 59
Page 6
Philipuine Naval Patrol reportedly is loading mil
supplies at Manile Port in enticipation of possible use
against alleged threatened dissident opr in southern isles.
RYCCM:
Political:
(A). Contemplated changes in Gov. Nakazato Seikichi,
former Okinawa civil adm (ocA) ofl who Joined People's Party
1Sth Oct, is expeoted to rur for Mayor of Waha in 20th Nov
election. Toma Junin, Chief of OCA, Mura Adm (stores sub-
iaised by Us appropriated funds) is also a cand. Rpts in-
aleate he w beported by members CCA and Haha City
Assembly.
People 's Party taking full advantage present
senfusion aneng Naha residents over sudden arrest of Mayer
MMareto MI and the Vice Mayor (CINCFE WEEHA 58) and expecte
sin politiear prestige thoough Nakazatos cand even though
does not win elecvion.
Econemies
(ccnorie chenge: Reliable informant reported
hat conttruec uee c? explosives by Okinawan fishermen is
peopardizing fishing indusery by wholesale destructior of
wats fish  which Berger fish feed.
Motor canoes uned for
fishsne ar also usel to assjeb in the tranefer of cargoes.
geagolng so uggl ang boats.
Miger
(A). Subevelver
Oltinava police searehing for
athaceni Cheko and Pmn Eremura, alleged lllegall entrants
r Kagoshima-Ken (nowthern Hyukyus Tolands). Ashisomi,
raer nemopaperman in Satpen, is suspeeted of being Com-
a mtnt coueler and la possibly involved an recen
count ore
feit type 3 ourr case (CTNerE WEEKA 58). Inamura deseribed
so cunet o? Pergo sa onret in Kagoshima.
Both nasive Fyulkyuans.
T 17094
(18 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-B48719

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
JOINY WEEKA 59
Page 7
oX 53581
MARBO
Meve Omplants (C INCFE WEEKA
P eo wrn a ptme Dept of abor by discharged Fuli
has un Gunm Jompe atat ms when they were needed they were
   rncethout prejudicing their
o n purp hey are bsng revurned prier
1.
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.90)
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
ACTION COPY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
SECRET
Action: OLI
Rec'd November 28, 1949
Info:
1 a.in
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM: Tovo
to : seeretary e State
N0: 21-53676, 2  89 (00my 00071.0)
JOTNT MEBRA OO P
894.00
21949
2549
hated
Action Taken
11/28/49
Hularn
rile
T!
21
工
H
E
CENTRAL FILES WITH

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan from AA
TO3
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
CX 53676
JOINT WEEKA 60
25 Nov 49
Japan:
Political:
(A! Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt: State Minister Kimura Kozaemon, coalition democrat,
urges abandonment conservative merger movement (CINCFE WEEKA
58), calls for resignation democratic cabinet ministers and
party executives to promote party reunification. Move
regarded indication serious rift among coalition democrats.
Lowe: House Foreign Affairs Committee may be increased
fr 2o to 3o members to handle matters pertaining to possible
peace conf. Premier Yoshida warns that world sentiment
toward Japan generally unfavorable, calls for greater Japanese
efforta to improve Japans international reputation.
National pers authority plans examination of quali-
fications of Adm ofls; ofls display strong opposition to plan.
Communists protest dismissals of pro-Red School
teachers. Both houses aporove 1 wk extension of diet session
to 30 Nov.
Ec on omi e:
(A) Important changes: Curr in cireulation back to
294055 million yen 21 Nov after reaching months 1ow 19 Nov at
291337 mi1lion. Steady increase expected for remainder mo.
Expect reduction of about 7 million bushels in rice quota.
Rice deliveries stil? well behind last years record. Coal
supplies seen as adequate seen as adeguate despite reduced
output. Govt planning to speed up liguidation coal stockpiles.
CM IN 18114
(25 Nov 49)
108
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 53676
JOINT WEEKA 60
Page 2
Repatriation Highlights:
Lull noted in repatriate activities since compl
processing last arrivals. various civic and repatriate
orgns, in anticipation of impending Soviet announcement
repatriation end, cont rallles and petitions to request
repatriation compl fr Soviet and Red China areas. Japanese
newspapers rpt recent survey of almost 50,000 1949 repatri-
ates shows 40 per cent still jobless, with majority of un-
employed still seeking work. Red organ "Akahata" cont to
play up entry into Communist Party of indiv repatriates.
Sch of seventh phrase repatriation vessels announced. Five
boatloads to arrive Maizuru by 3rd Dec.
North Korea:
M11:
(C) Trp movements, concentrations, opr: Kim Moo
Jung, Peopies Army (PA) arty comdr, reportedly visited
Chinese Communist authorities in Manchuria in Mar 49 seek-
ing mil aid. Kim reguested loan of aprx 50,000 rifles,
other weapons and ammo but request refused. He was assured
however, that when Chinese Communist force (cCF) gained
decisive victory, CCF would sup weapons for North Korean
Army and lend svs 15,000 Korean (CCF) trps.
Comment: This rpt particularly interesting in
view of number ccp trps (14,000-16,000) which this hg es-
timates have entered North Korea (CINCFE weeka 58).
Joint CCF-PA Hg established near Pyongyang Oct 49
to facilitate entry CCF trps fr Manchuria and organize such
pers into new PA units.
Comment: CCF Liaison Office reported previously
at Pyongyang. One probably exists. CCF trps probably have
augmented PA, both as indivs and units.
CM IN 18114
(25 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—-B48719

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 53676
JOINT WEEKA 60
Page 3
Unit of CCF 166 D1y reported as "498 Tuan" moved
8600 trps fr Manchuria to Sinu1ju (4006-12424) 22-25 Ju1
49. A un1t of 498 (200 men ) observed s1nu1ju 2-10 0ct.
Comment; Term "Tuan" believed to mean regt, con-
seguently tending to discredit statement that "498 Tuan"
has 86o0 men. Despite this, number trps reported in con-
sonance existing info concerning CCF at Sinuiju (see FEC
int sumnary 2593).
Aprx 2300 PA trps fr Second Div reportedly observed
Wonsan (3910-12726) area 9 Sep.
Comment: Unconfirmed but spts previous info that
some Second Div trps moving southward.
Psychological:
North Korean Govt has created "Hyop Shim Tae", an
orgn of spies which is under jurisdiction political defense
unit of police adm offices in each province. with one to
three agts planted in places of work, gathering places, etc,
orgn has primary function surveillance of populace.
Comment: Creation such orgn logical and should
further increase effectiveness Communist control of North
Korea people (FEC int summary 2560).
Philippines:
Political
(A) Important changes in foreign policy: Philipp-
ines stand on Japanese peace treaty reportedly will be to
extraet full War indemnity and demand full measure restitui-
tion. Quirino allegedly emphasized that Philippines not
bound by Us attitude and would peg Japanese level economic
development to 1936 standards. philippines reportedly wil1
oresent own program for disposition Japanese colonies and
CM IN 18114
(25 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
53676
JOINT WEEKA 60
Page 4
hopes to play decisive role in delineation Japanese terri-
torial boundaries. Philippines also desirous exercising
influence on character post-war Japanese governmental and
educational systems, manner of disposition Japanese over-
seas assets, and Japanese international legal status.
(C) Reactions to important events: Nacionalista
Party (NP) President Eulogio Roáriguez reportedly counseled
party leaders to use restraint and present election fraud
claims through NP Hq in orderly manner.
Nacionalista Party reportedly contacted Soviet
Foreign Minister Andrei Vishinsky with view latter airing
matter of alleged fraudulent election returns in United
Nations assembly
Economic
(B) Foreign economic.developments: Philippines-
American textile corp capitalized at nine million pesos
(4,500,000 US dollars) being formed Manila. US financial,
technical experts expected arrive Manila this wk.
Source comment: This development may indicate
beginning of substantial flow US capital.
philippines Govt import control program reportedly
having adverse effect local economy causing Philippines
loss of est1mated 32 iilion pesos (16 illion US dollars)
monthly. Reportedly, an economic depression is imminent
as result of decreasing peso-dollar reserve balances caus-
ed by unfavorable trade conds. Source states import con-
trol program must be repealed if responsible business in-
terests Philippines are to cont local investments.
M11:
(c) Incidents and opr: Constabulary and police
cordon reportedly thrown around Buguio City 17 Nov fol rpts
CM IN 18114
(25 Nov 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
53676
JOINT WEEKA 60
Page 5
that 200 Huks planned seize city. Eight Huks and 1 o1v
guard reported killed 16 Nov in encounter 15 miles south-
west of Baguio.
Rumors persist that Huks have infiltrated Batangas
Province with alleged prupose aiding defeated Presidential
cands in promoting uprising. PC Comdr BG Alberto Ramos
rpts situation under control. Philippine constabulary alert
status extended indefinitely.
RYCOM:
Political:
(c) Reactions to important events: Results of
mayors elections 20 Nov in Okinawa cities of Naha and Ishi-
kawa not yet available. Democratic alliance reportedly
supported Peoples Party cand Nakazato Seikichi for Naha
Mayoralty. Naha City Assemblymen Nakamoto Saisei defected
fr Peoples Party and announced intent to spt conservative
cand Toma Jumin (CINCFE weeka 59). At political meeting
Naha 18 Nov democratic alliance member Uehara Nobulo accused
mil govt, Okinawa Civil Adm, and civil police of "Political
suppression of Okinawan people". At same meeting Democratic
Alliance Chairman Nakasone Genwa described recent appoint-
ment new Okinawa assembly as "crushing blow to Okinawans"
(CINCFE weeka 58).
Misc?
(A) Subversive: Okinawa police rpt smuggling of
telephone cable fr Okinawa to Formosa for use in manufac-
ture of ammo.
Informant advised Naha police that smuggling boats
formerly engaged in transport'ng sugar fr Formosa to
yonaguni now bringing families and household goods because
of rumor that Chinese Communists will soon arrive Formosa.
CM IN 18114
(25 Nov 49)
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949O-B48719

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
53676
JOINT WEEKA 60
Page 6
(B) Sociological: Curr efforts for bettering re-
lations US mil pers and Okinawans meeting with good results.
Criminal investigation and civ police rpts indicate less-
ing of incidents (CINCFE weeka 50)
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
MARBO;
To date eight B-25's have been met by oSI agts at
Naval Air Base, Agana, Guam. Acft being delivered to
Chinese Air Force Taiwan.
US civ crews manning acft provided fol info:
(1) There has been considerable mechanical trouble
with acft; and (2) one rpt indicated that Ford co attempt-
ing induce Chinese to hire US mechanics to maintain B-25's
after delivery.
FEAF comment: Eight acft are part of 12 B-25's
Bcheduled for delivery to CAF. Ford Co is probably Fleet-
way Inc which has employed civ crews to ferry planes fr
US to CAF.
ACTION: ID
INFO
: AF, NAVY, STATE, PO, SDLO
CM IN 18114
(25 Nov 49)
DTG: 250849Z
rOB/C
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
15 JAN 1949
COPY NO.
U.S.GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949--O-848719

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.88)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
15
SECRET
Action:
OLI
December 2, 1949
Info:
11:50 a.m.
E
P
FE
PO3
PROM: Tokeve
DCR
TO:
soevebary ef Gtats
NO:
OX 53760 December 1 (Army Message)
JO WEA WOeP G fo A
894.00 (W)/
Noel
Action Taken
12/6/49
8
of Action
Nulen
6
Jile
ut u

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARA PHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan from AA
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID
Info:
USAF
Nr:
CX 53760
JOINT WEEKA 61
1 Dec 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes
in govt: Split in Democratic Party coalitlon faction
(CINCFE WEEKA 60) widcns, as State Min1ster K1mura parts
with Inukai. Opposition Democrats expect Kimuras early
resignation fr cabinet. Upper House opposition Democrats
form bargaining grp, seek to lure green breeze members,
minor grps into opposition fold. Opposition parties seek
delay govt measures on food control. Lower House votes
down non-confidence motion by opposition against agriculture
Minister Mori. Nationals pers authority pushes plans for
examination qualifications adm ofis, despite strong opposition
by govt leaders. Attorney Gens Office estimates Japan
Communist str, including party members and sympathizers, at
400,000. Reg1stered party members reported as 80,000.
Premier Yoshida considers formation Council of Senior
Diplomats to discuss matters regarding peace treaty.
Further extension of Diet Session seen, as supplementary
bud passage deleyed.
Economic:
(A) Important changes: Curr 1ssue 303,103,000,000
as of 23 Nov. Rice quota to be reduced 12,500,000 bushe1s.
Deliveries 20 Nov rice 34.1 per cent, sweet potatoes 75.4 per
cent of quotas respectively.
CM IN 19000
(1 Dec 49)
109
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE. 1949-O-B48719

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53760
JO INT WEEKA 61
Page 2
Repatriation Highlights:
Repatriates on first three ships of seventh phase
adopt delaying tactics in filling out identification papers.
Rumored abolition of "Nippon Shimbun", Japanese newspaper
published in Khabarovsk (CINCFE WEEKA 58), appears confirmed
with return of 41 staff members. Japanese public still
convinced many thousand Japanese remain Siberia, both houses
iet working on joint resolution petitioning allied powers
to announce names of repatriates who died in Siberia and
repatriates still alive.
North Korea:
M1l:
(C) Trp movement, concentrations, opr: Two
Chinese Communist Force (CcF) Divs (Korean) reportedly arrived
Nanam area (4142-12941) Oct 49. About 2,000 CCF trps stationed
S1nu1ju (4006-12424) 10 Oct after arriv1ng fr Manchuria earlier
in mo. Unidentified unit 500 CCF trps observed Chongju
(3942-12512) about 30 Oct. Th1s unit entered North Korea
between 10 May and 20 Ju1 and reported to "Lee Hong Kwang Hq" at
Sinu1ju. Peoples Army Arty Comdr requested 50,000 rifles,
other arms and ammo fr Chinese Communists ofls in Menchuria
in Mar 49. He failed to secure desired arms at time, but
received assurance weapons and services of 15,000 CCF
(Koreans) would be furnished after CCF attained decisive
victory over Nationalists. CCF fr Lee Hong Kwang and Yenchi
(4255-12931) "c0lumns" assembled 30,800 at S1nu1ju end 15,000
at Nanam respectively in recent mos. Trps fr former have
been arriving since May 49 and fr latter since Jul. Both
movements still in progress. Fr both cities, trps moved
Southward as Fols:
800 to Sonchon (3750-12838) and 1600 to Chongju Oat;
12,000 to Pyongyang (3901-12544) Jun; 1700 to Sariwon
(3830-12544) and 5,000 to Hamhung (3954-12732) Ju1. Lee
column" A p0 No 1s 164 wh11e other 1s 166.
CM IN 19000
(1 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949O-848719

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53760
JOINT WEEKA 61
Page 3
Comment:
No supporting evidence at present for roported
presence 2 CCF Divs near Nanam. Rpt believed exaggerated.
Refs to Lee Hong Kwang unit is add indicatlon that
unidentified PA Div carr1ed in Manchuria has entered North
Korea (FEC Int summary 2630). Rpt fails to make clear
whether number trps at Sinuiju and Nanam include those which
moved through these cities to locales further Southward but
is believed this would be the case. Is probable that promises
of CCF assistance in Mar 49 included assurances of services
of 15,000 trps. Since then, promise of aid probab1y enlarged.
Present indications are that total 1s greater than this Nq
last est1mate of 14,000 to 16,000 but numbers reported above
cons1dered doubtful.
Naval:
(B) Maj ohange in orgn, equip, str: Recent
rpt states three maj comds termed "Garrison Hq", oreated in
Peoples Navy Sep 48, at Wonsan (3910-12726) Chongjin (4146-
12949) and (hinnampo (3844-12524). Tota1 number trps
controlled by these comds, 1ncluding Naval Academy, 1s 3258.
In add, First, Second and Third Marine Regts oreated under
Ministry of National Defense with 1800 trps each at Wonsan,
Chonjin, and Chinnampo respectively. Total o 24 Naval craft
(varying fr 40 to 400 tons) reported, w1th 1 800-ton ship at
Wonsan and 1 at Chinnampo under construction. Three ships
of undetermined tonnage to be imported fr USSk in 49.
Comment:
This Hg carries only Western Sea Comd,. with Hq at
Chinnampo: Eastern Sea Comd, with Hq at Wonsan, but Northern
Sea Comd, with Hq at Chongjin may exist. Marines may have
been added to Armed Forces but rpt is unconfirmed. Shipbuild-
Ing at Chinnampo and Wonsan possibly in progress. Totai sea
craft in Navy estimated at 29 (details concerning entire rpt
will be published in later FEC Int summary).
CM IN 19000
(1 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING OFFICE: 1949--O-848719

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53760
JOINT WEEKA 61
Page 4
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Chenges in foreign policy: In effort to
check Chinese infiux into Philippines the Philippines Govt
has extended the present ban on visas to Chinese Nationals
through 1 Jan 50.
(c) Reactions to important events: Nacionalista
party (Np) leaders, headed by Jose Laurel, reportedly met
10 Nov and stated policy of abstaining fr revolution-and
exp?oiting all "lega? remedies" to nullify Quirino Liberal
Farty (QLP) victory. NP has declared unwillingness to be
responsible for bloodshed but states action started along
legal lines in protest alleged election irregularities.
Recent "peace offer" by Quirino carrying tentative job offers
for Np leaders refused by Laurel who stated political peace
impossible in view QLP election frauds.
Economic:
(A) Economic Changes: Philippines traders and
growers believe copra industry retarded 2 yrs by recent
Visayan islands typhoons. Experts state future of industry
wili depend upon govt financlal and scientific aid in next
5 yrs
(B) Poreign economic developments:
Tha i land
reportedly will make early reparations payment to Philippines
of 500,000 pesos (250,000 0S do11ars).
British Cathay Pacific Airlines (CPA) reportedly
ferrying $60,000,000 in silver fr Manila to Hong Kong.
Money belonging to Chinese Nationalist govt to be delivered
Central Bank of China.
(1 Dec 49)
CM IN 19000
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING CFTICE: 1949--O 848719

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
cx 53760
JOINT WEEKA 61
Page 5
Govt source allegedly stated 22 Nov that Philipp1nes
considering withdrawing membership World Bank and cancelling
app11cat1on for 176,000,000 poso (88,000,000 US do11ars) 10an
for development of electrical power. Move reportedly is
reaction to delay by World Bank in approving proposed loan
and dissatisfaction caused by World Bank approval of loans
to British backed Ceylon.
M17:
(c) Incidents and Opr: Estimated 100 dissidents
engaged Constabulary and Civ Guards at Silang, Cavite Province,
20 Nov. 13 Huks reported killed.
Fres ident Quirino labels Batangas insurrection
a politicai aftermath of elections and not a Huk upris ing.
23 Nov rpt of possible land and sea atek on Man1la resulted
in gen alert. Some dissidents reported captured near Us
Embassy in Manila. Situation remains tense.
RYCOM:
political:
(A) Important changes in Govt: Results mayoralty
elect1ons Okinawan cities Naha and Ishikawa (CINCFE WEEKA 60)
as fuls:
Conservative cand Toma Jumin eleuted Mayor Naha by
decisive majority over Peoples Party and Socialist cands.
Toma supporters allegeuly acsused Peoples Party of being pro-
Communist. Introductlon Communist issue reportedly caught
Peoples Party off guard and was deciding factor. Conservative
cand Traha Choko elected Mayor of Tshikawa over his Democratic
alliance opponent. Liberal Party cand Ishihara Masataro
electec Mayor Hirara City, Miyeko, Southern Ryukyus. Ishihara
is strong supporter o: Miyako provisional govt.
CM IN 19000
(1 Dec 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949—O-848719

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
JOINT WEEKA 61
Page 6
Nr:
CX 53760
MARBO:
M11:
(A) Inoidents and Opr: Unidentified submarine
reported s1ghted 24 Nov by Navy lookout stat1oned on Mt
Tapotchon, Sa1pan, Marianas. Islands. Submarine surfaced
East of Magicienne Bay and was observed fr distance 2 to 5
miles for period of 1 hr while submarine traveled on 20 degree
course. Observers description: Cork grey, conning tower
streamlined fore and aft, 5 inch gun forward, 2 periscopes.
Comment:
COMNAVFE states no US submarine in area at sighting time.
ACTION:
ID
INFO:
AF, NAVY. PO, STATE, SDLO
mlf/7
(1 Dec 49) DTG: 011035Z
CM IN 19000
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949--O-B48719
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.89)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE.
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
SFCRCT
Action: OL)
Rec'd December 12, 1949
Inf:
1 a.m.
E
P
FF
POS
894.00
SMDA
VIVIPION
DCR
DISTRIBUTION BRANCH
DE0 131949
TO:
(W)/12-1049
NO:
 Mss)
tion Assigned to
noted
ction Taken
ion Crrice Syboi/
Hudom
SECRET FILE
File
HcHH
SECRET
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST E RETNED TO DC R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATIONOACIOTAKEN.

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
CSGID Wash DC
Info:
USAF; MA Seoul Korea; COMGENUSARPAC Ft Shafter TH;
Nr:
CX 53901
JOINT WEEKA 62
10 Dec 49
Subj 1s Joint Army-Air WEEKA 62.
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes in
govt; Diet goes into recess fol opening seventh regular
session 4 Dec. Upper House shelves govt-sponsored food
procurement bill, which provides for compulsory sale of over-
guot staple food crops at govt prices. Upper house attitude
in bill attributed to councillors opposition with agrarian
constituencies, especially those who face election contest in
Jun 50. Cabinet plans to enforce bill as govt directive.
Strong opposition expected.
State Minister Kimura Koxaemon (CINCFE WEEKA 61)
expresses readiness to resign fr cabinet to work for democratic
party unity. Opposition parties play Premier Yoshide for
statement condemning partisan tactics; opposition apparently
compensates for feeling of helplessness against democratic
liberal Partys absolute majority. New anti-Communiat govt
workers union inaugurated.
Economic:
(A) Important changes: Curr 30 Nov 303,822 million
yen for net contraction for Dec of aprx 25co million.
Further drop brings circulation to 300,679 million on 5 Dec.
Nov coal product1on 3,152,700 tons or 87 percent of target.
Decreased output mainly in low quality coals.
CM IN 534
(10 Dee 49)
110
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 2
Nr:
CX 53901
Repatriation highlights:
All ships scheduled for seventh phase now have arrived.
Repatriates cont to refuse to fill out forms, stage sitdown
and hunger strikes, demand greater allowances and other
nuisance tactica characteristic of 1949 repatriates, but no
serious distrubances. Although no ofl notice of any further
repatriation this yr, Japanese authorities cont to hope that
add 20,O0o, reportedly already assembled in Nahodita, will be
returned.
North Korea:
Mil:
(C) Trp movements, concentrations, opr: Recent
fragmentary rpts concerning Chinese Communist force (CCF)
trps in North Korea state fol: CCF trps reportedly established
D1v Hq at Sinu1ju (4006-12424) 5 Oct 49. Unidentified units
Sr Lee Hong Kwang unit observed Sinuiju 10 Oct to 2 Nov.
Unit reportedly arrived 15 May. Aprx 1700 trps observed
Sinuiju 10 Oct to 1 Nov, about 40,00c entered North Korea
through Sinuiju 10 May to 1 Nov 49 but final dispositions
not reported.
Comment: These rpts tend to spt poesibility that
unidentified elements peoples Army. Currently carried in
Munchuria is moying to, or has arrived in, North Korea (FEC
int summary 2630). This body of trps reportedly was formed
Pr Lee Hong Kwang unit in Feb 48 (FEC int summary 2087).
If such be true, then aprx 10, 000 of the 14, 000 to 16,000
CCF trps, estimated 10 Nov 49 to be in North Korea, would be
accounted for by this unit, thereby resulting in str increase
of only 4, 000 to 6, O00 over and above accepted overal1 str
of 60/64 thousand for Peoples Army. If unidentified unit
concerned is not included in eatimated CcF str, then increase
In PA str would be 14,000 to 16,C00. Unt11 this point 1s
larified by add info, amount of increase in PA str resulting
fr augmentation by CCF cannot be determined. Finally, there
is reason to believe augmentation fr Mancharia continues,
but avallable rpts not firm encugh to justify inerease in
estimate at this time (CINCFE WEEKA 50, 58).
(10 Dec 49)
CM IN 534
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-848719
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53901
Page 3
Peoples Army Second Div Hq and Fourth Regt reportedly
located Humhung (3954-12732) 25 Sept to 10 Oot; Fifth Regt at
Nanam (4142-12941); S1xth Regt at Hoeryong (4225-12945).
Aprx 3500 Second Div trps observed Hamhung during same period.
Comment: Latest rpta on Second Div, carried by this
Hq in Nanam area, further substantiate earlier rpts of move-
mont elements this maf unit southward. Rpts, however, conflict
s to what elements involved and destinations. To date, best
"onclusion that can be drawn fr all info available is thet 1
regt (possibly Sixth) of Second Div now Humhung.
Philippines:
Politcal:
(C) Reactions to important events: President Quirino
reportedly 1nstucted Philippines United Nations (UN) Ambassador
Carlos P Romulo to refuse post of UN High Commiss1oner to
Libya. Rumored Quirino feels Romulo acceptance would hamper
proposed orgn of Pacific Union.
Quirino 28 Nov stated recognitin of Communist China
by England or other govts will not affect projected Southeast
Asia Union along non-Communist lines. China automatically
excluded.
Economic :
(A) Proposed economic changes or refonms: Quirino
25 Nov granted Chinese permission to invest in Philippines
industry with fol restrictions: (1) Priority for Philippine
labor, (2) Remittances to China to be subj to rigid exchange
controls to prevent outflow of dollar reserves, (3) careful
sereening of investors to ascertain political affiliations,
and (4) Investiments limited to industrial field, excluding
mining, agriculture, export and import.
President Quirino 29 Nov signed executive order
tightening import controls on luxury items in furtherance
CM IN 534
(10 Deo 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Page 4
Nr:
CX 53901
austerity program and conservation dollar reserves (CINCPE
WEEKA 60). Philippines Rehabilitation Finance Corp giving
priority to rice, sugar, orchard and fishing projects in
effort bolster food supply and reduce imports of locally
producible items.
M11:
(C) Trp movements and incidents: Philippines
Constabulary (Pc) task force consisting of 1 inf bn,
! arty btry, and 1 naval patrol vessel dispatched to Sulu 30
Nov 49 to Quell insurrection in which 43 were killed prior
to 3 Dec 49. A Moro named Kamlon leading insurrection.
Kamlon granted amnesty for war crimes some months ago and
only recently returned to hills.
Manila situation remains quiet but active violence
threatened. PC Hq suspect simultaneous attacks on PC
installations throughout Philippines may occur on or before
Inauguration day in Jin 50.
PC units dialodged Hukiforce vicinity MT Arayat near
Clark Field 25 Nov 49. Aprx 300 Huks under comd of Gregor1o
Cortez allegedly retreated along western slopes of mountain.
Leionila Dixon wife of Luis Taruc reportedly identified in
grp.
RYCOM:
Political:
(A) Inportant change in govt: Provisional govt of
Northern Ryukyus being harrassed by oriminal charges filed
agalnst key members by suspected Communists and Communist
sympathizers. Harrassment started in Aug with arrest of 3
members of grieultural Asen who are presently in Jail awaiting
trail. Five other prominent leaders in jail or awaiting trail
cn such charges as "usurping lost artieles". Local prosecutor
and judge who prepared charges and warrants on two cases are
associates of Communist Leadere of Oshima.
ON IN 534
(10 Deo 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-B48719

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53901
Page 5
M1 8c :
(A) Subversive: Nuwashi village 1s now the hub of
both radical parties-- the democratic alliance and the People
Pirty. Because of entrenchment of radicals in village adm,
Miwashi is becoming known among people as Red Village.
Village ofls reported to have accepted bribes fr new residents
and businessmen. Toma Jumin, new mayor of Naha, has announced
is intention of putting an end to corrupt adm of Mawashi by
annexing the area to Naha.
Air:
(Reported by FEAF)
Japan:
Hq, 8th Fighter Wing experiencing interference on all
of frequencies. As cause not yet determined, Wing Comms
and SSI are investigating.
FEAF Comment: Itazuke base area, where 8th Fighter
Wing is stationed, has experlenced intermittent radio Inter-
ference since June 1949, primarily on frequenoy of 4495
kilocycles. Deliberate foreign blocking or jamming has not
thus far been ascertained.
Philippines:
Philippine Air Force reportedly desirous of acquiring
aprx 50 F-51s fr Clark AFB in view of Clark AFBs transition
to jet fighters. Presently available to PAF are 20 F-5ls for
more than 50 PAF pilots, PAF source stated.
With such shortage,
fighters not being risked for tng purposes.
FEAF Comment: Clark FB is estimated to have effected
roughly 1/4 transltion to-jet-type fighter airoraft. Tranefer
or sale of jet-repleces F-5ls vould improve capabilities of
PAF, but would also complicate PAFs already inadequate
logistical spt. Believed that of PaF's total of i7l aireraft,
aprx l01 are operational, including 20 tactical alrcraft.
CM IN 534
(10 Dec 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949O-B48719
15 JAN 1949

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 53901
Paga 6
Probably 17 add aircraft are usable, while remainder require
extenaive overhaul to make them operational. Lack of spare
parts and firm lines of supply are ma jor factors in keeping
high percentage of PAF aircraft out of opr. Consequently
air defence of Philippines Republic remains primarily depen-
dent upon capabilities of US 13th F. However, PAF has
sufficient trained pilots and other skilled pers to handle add
aircraft.
MARBO:
On 1 Dec 1 B-c5 enroute Chinese Air Force landed
Guam fr Wike Island. Final destination Tuichung, Taiwan
via Naha AFB, Okinawa.
Source ccmment: This is the tenth of 12 ships to be
delivered.
Twelfth ship will not be delivered; reason
not given.
Flight crew briefed at Guam by OSI (IG) agt.
ACTION: ID
TNFO
AF, NAVY, PO. STATE, SDLO
CM IN
534
(20 Dee 49) DTG: 1002312
fmb/3
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.90)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUHICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMÉNT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
13
SECRET
Action:
OLI
December 16, 1949
Info:
10:15 a.m.
SMDA
1
1.
FROM:
Tokye
1E
PGS
TO:
Seeretary ef Boate
LCR
NO:
CX 53990 December 16 (Army Message)
JOINP WEERA Nud or GB From SAA
834.00
(W)/12-1
Extract on urarinn sent
4. Mr Chase 1260/49
01 A100 12/19/49
1AN
.
Orton
1649
.   -
hls
SECRET FIL
工
PERMANEVT
RAI FILES WITH

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE KOT REQUIRED
From: CINCFE Tokyo Japen from AA
To : Dept of Army for CSGID
Info: CSUSAF Wash DC; MILATTACHE Seoul Korea
Nr : CX 53990
JOINT WEEKA 63
16 Doc 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes
in govt: Govt promulgates food procurement ordinance
(CINCF: WEEKA 62) providing for controlled sale of over-quota
staple food crops. Action arouses storm of opposition,
particularly among agrarian elements.
National pers authority presses for increase in
public workers wage base fr 6307 to 7377 yen monthly.
Govt railway workers union uses hunger strike tactics to
arouse public sympathy in wage dispute with govt. Strike
ends 13th Dec, as govt submits wage arbitration plan to
Diet.
Social Democrats announce plan to press for cabinet
resignation during 7th regular diet session; party seeks
to assert pos as leading opposition grp in lower house.
New national congress of industriel unions, anti Communist
labor orgn, inaugurated 10th Dec. Membership estimated at
sl1ghtly under 200,000. Merger with conservative Japan
Federation of Trede Unions discussed. Japanese budget
delay seen.
Economic:
(A) Important changes: Curr 302309 million yen
12th Dec after hitting low of 299522 m1li1on yen 7th Dec.
Abolition of staple fiber, rayon, and wo len yarn controls
CM IN 1344
(16 Lec 49)
109
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: CX 53990
JOINT WEEKA 63
page 2
expected in Jan. Export contracts concluded in Nov exceed
50 million dollars. Electric power rates boosted 30 per
cent on 13th Dec.
Repatriation highlights:
Last grp repatriates contained several hundred
strongly anti-Communist pers, who displayed rising sun
emblem and voiced determination to fight Communism and tell
Japanese people actual state of affairs existing in Siberia.
North Korea:
M11:
(C) Trp movements, concentrations, opr: Recent compre-
hensive rpt states 42950 Chinese Communist force (CCF)
trps of Korean lineage made piecemeal entry North Korea
fr Sept 48 through Oct 49. of this number, 19300 entered
through S1nu1ju (4006-12424); 11200 through Manpoj1n (4110-
12618); 12450 through Namyang (Tumen) (4245-12945). Grps
of these pers were d1sposed to Kaechon (3940-12558), Anju
(3936-12540), ChongJu (3942-12512), Kanggye (4058-12636)
and other locations, both eastern and western, where elements
North Korean armed forces currently stationed. Soon after
arrival in North Korea, 8950 were integrated into peoples
army (PA) and security forces, while 15400 were integrated
after undergoing orientation. Remaining 186o0 reportedly
were members of Lee Hong Kwang uait which retained its
organizational status.
Comment: Sinuiju, Nannonin, Namyang mentioned in
previous reports as entry points for CCF, with Sinuiju
reported most prominently. While there are increasing
indications that number CCF in North Korean being increased,
available evidence does not spt str figure reported. (See
CINCFE WEEKA 62). However, reported dispos1tion these trps
tends to spt thesis that some CCF, other than currently
estimated 14,000 to 16,000, entered North Korea over period
several months and were integrated into armed forces. In
CM IN 1344
(16 Deo 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING GFFICE: 1949—-O-848719

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: CX 53990
JOINT WEEKA 63
page 3
view North Korean manpower shortage, logical to assume
that in add to local conscripts, CCF would be utilize
vast source of trained mil manpower in expansion North
Korean armed forces which began in late 1948. This rpt
although unconfirmed, is further 1ndication that unidenti-
fied PA unit carried in Manchuria has entered North Korea
(FEC Int Summary 2648). (See FEC Int Summary 2653 for
further details).
Fourth Regt, Second Div reportedly located Hamhung
(3954-12732) 25th Sep to 10th 0ct 49 but was soon to move
tc rea nearer 38th parallel, followed by remainder second
Div less one regt. Tng bn and unidentified unit of 4000
fr Second Div located Hamhung during same period. On
30th Oct, Hg of Seventh Regt, Third Div was at Pyonggang
(3824-12718), First Bn at Hwachon (3806-12742), Second
En at Yangyang (3804-12838), and Third Bn at Kumhwa (3818-
12728). E1ghth Regt located Chorwon (3814-12712) 4th
Nov and Ninth Regt at Pokkye-R1 (3826-12716) 28th Cct.
Comment: Foregoing rpts regarded as add indications
that Second Div has moved, or is moving, southward to Nanam
(4142-12941) area and that entire Third Div 1s disposed
In 38th paralle1 areas (see FEC 1nt summar1es 2605, 2614,
2648). It is believed that reported identif1cation of
Third Div units in locations concerned does not mean that
ihese units are in add to the unidentified concentrations
cons1stently reported in that gen area, but it is probable
that the former is an identification of the latter (FEC
int summary 2579).
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important changes in govt and domestic policy:
Differences between president Quirino and defeated cand
Avelino apparently settled at lOth Dec meeting of both
factions. Avelino to be restored Senate presidency in
exchange for Avelino faction spt of Quirino. This apparently
CM IN 1344
(16 vec 40)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1945
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949--O-848719

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Kr: CX 53990
JOINT WEEKA 63
page 4
scuttles secret pact 19th Nov between Avelino senators
and Nacionalista to prevent proclamation of Quirino as
president. New Quirino-Avelino pact should assure nec
senate majority to confirm Quirino as victor. Quirino
faction of liberal party (QLp) reported making initial
moves to run Eugenio perezas next presidential cand.
Depts Foreign Affairs and Justice probing immigration
irregularities affecting 100 Chinese "students" who entered
without bond and 3,000 Chinese residents whose temporary
permits have expired.
Economic:
(A) proposed economic changes: Govt announces price
ceilings on rice to be established. Despite large estimated
1949-50 rice crop there appears to be an estimated deficiency
11033839 US bushe1s.
Huk and PG depredations Zambales province strangling
agriculture and trace. Farmers evacuating. Food and
copra production virtually halted.
M11:
(B) Maj changes in comd and str: president Quirino
Eth Dec reportedly authorized expansion Philippine constab-
ulary (PC) to 20,000. One Philippines Air Force (PAF) F-51
missing after strafing action against Sulu dissidents 4th
Dec 49. Two F-51 crash landed on return fr same mission
leaving PAF with estimated 17 cperational F-51.
(C) Trp movements: Inoidents and opr: PC announced
5th Dec that Batangas province again normal. PC garrison
allegedly will be established in all Batangas towns. Self-
styled Philippine revolutionary forces reportedly fled
Batangas to Sierra Madre mountains. Philippine armed
forces source stated Huks contacted Batangas rebels to effect
coalition but were refused because of Huk-Communist ties.
Source be lieves rebel force contains many Philippine pro-
fessional men disgruntled over election frauds. Top rebel
CM IN 1344
(16 Dec 40)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMEHT PRINTING OFFICE: 1949-848719

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr: CX 53990
JOINT WEEKA 63
Page 5
leaders are: (1) Col Francisco Medrano, lawyer and former
ofl national development corp, now supreme comdr rebel
forces. (2) Col Anselmo Beredo, alias Col Balagtas,
executive officer rebel trps and former Batangas city ofl.
(3) Maj Armando Real, rebel G-3 and former executive officer
to Beredo.
PAF believes Sulu disorder due to Moro religion and
not connected with Huks or other dissidents. PC starting
Sulu ant1-Moro opr this wk. Quirino stated no objection
imnesty to surrendered Moros.
Misc:
(A) Scientific: Int Div Hq National Defense forces
received confidential info (source and evaluation unknown)
that uranium deposits may exist on palawan Island. Further,
that Albino Sycip (Chinese), wealthy Manila resident has
been contacting philippine govt ofls and is exerting every
Effort to obtain govt grant to mine alleged uranium.
Source evaluation B-3.
RYCOM:
Political:
(C) Reaction to important events: Spokesman for
peoples party protested legality of 20th Nov mayoralty
elections on basis violation of town and village law.
Okinawa civil adm re jected protest, stating law not violated.
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Taiwan
Interrogation of crew Chinese Air Force B-25,
number 393, on Guam, revealed fol info regarding CAF air-
craft and facilities on, and opr fr, Taiwan as of 5th Dec
49. At Taichung there were 13 B-25's (each nose had one
fixed and one flexible .50 caliber machine gun; 4 of 13 had
(16 Dec 40)
CM IN 1344
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING OFFICE : 1949--O-848719

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
r: CX-53990
JOINT WEEKA 63
Page 6
package guns in side blisters), aprx 50 Mosquito bombers,
15 c-46's, and various tng aircraft observed. There were
undetermined number heavy AA guns. Gas facilities con-
sisted of drums only. Tactical missions reportedly increased
considerably since 1st Nov. No night opr reported. No
eircraft count obtained on C-46, F-47, and B-24 type aircraft
reportedly observed respectively at Taipei (Taihoku) air-
field, Shinchiku airfield, and Loyahara airfield.
FEAF comment: pertinent FEAF order of battle with
espect aircraft disposition on Taiwan as follows: Taichung
-19 B-25's and 47 Mosqu1tos, but no C-46's. Shinchiku--
numerous C-46's, some B-24's, and a few trainers, but no
7-47's. (Osono or Tao Yuan which bases F-47 may have been
mistaken for Shinchiku). Toyohara--no aircraft carried
for this sod field which 1s totally unsuitable for B-24
type aircraft. (It is possible that nearby Taichung may
have been mistaken for Toyohara, but this still would not
account for bombers being observed there. Possible B-24
type aircraft brought to Taichung for repair or maintenance
at aircraft factory)
ACTION: IL
INFO:
AF, NAVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM IN 1344
(16 Dee 40)
MTG 1601555 wk/0
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. 5. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.95)
VISION OF
ACTION COPY
OMMUNICIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
5
SECRET
Action: OLI
Ree:d December 26, 1949
Info:
1. a.m.
SMDA
E
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM: Tokyo
To : Secretary of State
No : ox 507, 23 Dee s by Message)
894.00（W）/12-2349
JOINT WEEKA G4 FROL CIMOFE RON AA
Date of Actian
  I
工
工
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.94)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
BECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
Prom：
CiNCFE Tokyo Japan from AA
40.
D po of Army for CSGID
Info:
Chief KMAG Seoul Koree; USARPAC Ft Shafter TH; USAF
C: 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
23 Dec 49
Japan:
Polisical:
Important changes or contemplated changes in govt:
Cabinet decides on year-end allowances; 30oo yen
or gov aiiway workers, 35oo for public corp employees,
920 for per public employees. Opposition parties, national
tors authprity, arbitration board protest cabinet decision as
ar short o? demands. Govt convinced that opposition, though
lostile to abinet plan, will not risk holding up bonus
 .
Govt to submit 27o bills to Diet by end of Jan,
among ther 50-51 bud bilm, expected to involve 660 bill1on
Hokkaido Citizens Grp ask return of Kurile Islands
as par  Fokkaido.
Democratic Liberals plan national convention in
ar may ul ct new executive officers.
Red Diet memters denounce Yoshida Itr requesting
aprurlat cn compl as "po itical conspiracy."
eromie:
(1) Important changes:
CM IN 241.3
(23 Dec 49)
110
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
GLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 2
Curr 1ssue 19 Dec reaches 306137 mi111on yen.
Possibility yr end figure will be well below 350 billion.
Govt contemplates 1ssuing 10-yen coin.
Rice quota deliveries slow with 47 per cent in
on 10 Dec. Speed-up expected soon. Sweet potato collection
66.3 per cent of quota.
Repatriation highlights:
Repatriation issue came to forefront 21 Dec in
Allied Council meeting when US member in response to mount-
ing pressure Japanese Parliament formally requested the
Soviets (in absentia) furnish vital statistics regarding
unaccounted for Japanese PWs in Soviet territory.
North Korea:
Mio:
(B) Maj changes in orgn, equip:
Seventh Border Constabulary (Bc) Brigade, with
Hq at Sibyon-Ni (T 818-12642), reportedly compr1sed of 5 Bns,
26 Oct 49. sixth Bn was soon to have been activiated. Bn
str reported as about 6o0. Aprx equal number of brigades
pers drawn fr Chinese Communist Forces (CCF) (Koreans),
Peoples Army Independent mixed brigade, and recruits.
Brigade reportedly activated to station CCF along 38 parallel.
Every effort being made to conceal their identify.
Comment:
First rpt of CCF incorporation into Seventh BC
Erigade, alihough previous info stated CCF officers joined
Third Brigade. In view indicated BC expansion and local
manpower shortage, reasonabie to assume some ccF trps utilized
by BC. Remeinder of rpt possibly true but previous info
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAM 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 3
indicated Seventh Brigade trps drawn fr other Seourity Force
Units. Obvious that North Korean Govt desired to keep CCF
ingress secret as possible since no known propaganda issued
on subj.
Two recent rpts mentioned Soviet tanks enroute
to Peoples Army. One stated 13 T-34 tanks observed enroute
fr Chongjin (4146-12949) to Chinnampo (3844-12524) 14 0ot 49.
Other stated 6 tanks turned over to Peoples Army at Hungnam
(3950-12738) 24 0ct.
Comment:
Those reportedly destined for Chinnampo probably
for PA tank unit at Pyongyan instead. Although number tanks
added to FA in recent month undetermined, volume of rpts on
subj indicate substantial increase.
(C) Trp concentrations, opr:
Peoples Navy "Brigade Hq" reported Wonsan
(3910-12726, 8 Jun 49. "Second Naval Garr1son Hq" 1ocated
Chongjin 14 Nov. Pers of latter instl totaled 2200 and
equipment consisted of two space 200 ton, four space 300
ton, five space 800 ton, and two space 1500 ton ships.
Eleven of the craft armed with 1 gun each and 2 with ? guns
each.
Comment:
Eastern Sea Ccmd and one Co carried at Wonsan.
This rpt is possible indication of change in Naval orgn at
higher Jevels. No evidence to spt statement that 13 Peoples
Navy craft, including 800 and 1500 ton ships, are at
Chongjir. Believed that of Nevys estimated 29 ships, only
one (A 750 ton craft) exceeds 300 tons. Info spts previous
unconfirmed rpt of a Naval Hg at Chongjin but str believed
exaggerated (FEC in summary 2645).
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1549
U. S. GOVERNMENT FRINTING OFFICE : 19490-848719

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 4
Youths 18 to 20 yrs old took physical exams
11 Nov 49 for consoription into Peoples Army.
Comment:
Earlier rpt mentioning 5000 consoripts
(FEC Int Summary 2652) tends to substantiate this info.
Together with info on field tng center (FEC int summary
2648), these rpts indicate North Korea expanding armed forces
utilizing both native manpower and CCF.
Philippines:
Political:
Important changes or contemplated changes in govt
and in domestic and foreign policies:
In senate caucus, 16 Dec, Avelino finalized plans
for own early resignation and re-election of Cuenco to the
senate post. Apparently Avelino reinstatment was mere gesture
to erase stigma of his earlier removal fr the post. Avelino
probably will accept Quirino offer of post Ambassador to
Argentina.
Council of State met, 15 rec, and decided:
(1) Refuse asylum Chinese nationalists govt if driven
out of Taiwan.
(2) Extend import control laws until May congressional
sessions allow time for enactment substitute measures.
(3) Appoint com to draft plans for govt reorganiza-
tion. Quirino allegedly desires appoint defeated Nacionalista
cand Jope P Laurel to head com if latter will accept. Govt
reorganization reportedly to be accomplished along lines of
US Hoover Plan.
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING CFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 5
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes or reforms:
Govt in Aug rated foreign exohange controls,
9 Dec, providing:
(1) Money exchange limited to central (Govt) Bank.
(2) All gold and foreign exchange transact1ons to
be subj to licensing. Central Bank issued supplementary
regulations prohibiting transferring dollars to private
individuais and corps, and setting by license requirements
for gold dealers. Foregoing acts, along with implementation
of stringent import controls, allegedly has raised value of
Us dollar for old exchange rate of 2 pesos to 2 and  pesos.
Gold 1s reportedly worth 58 US dollars per ounce in Manila
black market Gold smuggling considered probable as Hong Kong
black market rate reportedly is 39 US dollars.
Source comment:
Profiteers reportedly hoarding luxury items and
raising prices. Bank engaged in financing luxury imports
believed in precarious pos. Trade circles outspoken in
opposition to import controls. It is believed import controls
will prove beneficial on long rang basis.
Mil:
(B)
Maj changes in orgn and comd:
President Quirino met, 8 Dec, with Philippine
Army (PA) Chief Maj Gen Casteneda, Philippine Constabulary
(Pc) Chief Brig Gen Alberto Ramos, and Bud Lir Pio Joven and
made fol decisions:
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—0-848719

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
SECRET
CLASSIFIED
INCOMYNG
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
MESSAGE
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 6
(1) Provide trained PC combat teams, under comd
of PA officers, for handling future maj uprising.
(2) Recal1 apprx 3000 PA men now on duty with PC
and replace them with PC recruits.
(3) Restrict PC activities, other than combat teams,
to nrmal police functions.
Source Comment:
Changes in orgn allegedly resulted because of
"lackadaisical and biased attitude" of Pc trps in recent
Batangas uprising (CINCFE WEEKA 60) particularly among trps
employed in own home locale.
(c) Trp movements, incidents and opr:
Combined opr of Army, Air Force and Constabulary
reportedly successful during past wk in reducing resistance
(CINCFE WEEKA 63) but Moros reportedly ambushed PC unit,
15 Dec, vicinity Mt Baybay, Jolo Island. Estimate 47 PC
trps killed. Moro leader Kamlon (CINCFE WEEKA 62) believed
to have EG ambush.
RYCOM:
Sociological:
Urum Shimpo press has published first issue new
magazine called Uruma Shunju. Editor is Peoples Party member
and suspected Communist Isemiya Shui. Magazine expected to be
medium for Peoples Party propaganda.
Under leadership of Nishime Junji, repatriate fr
Manchuria, A co has been formed for publication of newspaper
to be called Okinawa Herald. Application for Mil Govt approval
indicates paper will be conservative and independent of present
political parties.
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49)
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 7
Subversive:
CIC investigating statement by alleged reliable
source in Naha that PoL products are being diverted fr Okinawa
to Taiwan via Yongguni Island. PoL is reportedly purchased
in Okinawa by Kyoshingumi Marine Transfer Co for shipment
to Southern Ryukyus but reportedly is transferred to Taiwanese
boats at Yonaguni Island.
Air: (Reported by FEAF)
Japan:
Subversive:
Telephone line servicing PoL pipeline fr
Hachinohe harbor to Misawa Air Force Base was cut in one
place by unknown person or persons between 1300 and 2100 hrs
12 Dec. Same line cut in four places on 13 Dec. All cuts
occurred in vicinity Ichikawa (40 degrees 36 minutes North/141
degrees 28 minutes East).
Source comment:
It is believed that cuts are result of recent
trial of two indivs fr Ichikawa for theft gasoline fr pipeline.
Two indivs received 3-yr sentences.
Taiwan:
Total 11 B-25's ferried fr US to nat1onalist
Taiwan via Guam and Naha. According pilot of llth Aircraft
which passed through Naha 11 Dec, Nat1onalist Govt unable
to make further such purchases unless US supplies money.
FEAF comment:
Crew of the 10th B-25 ferried to Taiwan reported
on 1st Dec at Guam that only 11 of 12 ordered would be
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54107
JOINT WEEKA 64
Page 8
delivered--reason not given. Inadequacy of funds probably
the reason. (See CINCFE WEEKA 62).
ACTION: ID
INFO : AF, NAVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM IN 2443
(23 Dec 49) DTG: 230143Z fc1/3
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.95)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
*TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
13
SECRET
Action: OLI
Info:
Rec'd December 30, 1949
E
4 p.m.
P
FE
POS
DCR
FROM:
Tokyo
TO:
Secretary of State
NO:
CX54200
December 29, 1949 (Army Message)
JOINT EEKA 65
894.00(W）/12-2949
signed to
lits
on Taken
OF STATS
IT AND DISTHIBUTION
DIVISION
DISTHIBUTION BRANCH
Hulan
JAN3 -1950
or efricer
Jll
SECRET FILL
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION CF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
SINCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
SECRET
PARAPHRASE NOT REQUIRED
From:
CINCFE Tokyo Japan
To:
Dept of Army for CSGID Wash DC
Info:
MA Seoul Korea; COMGENUSARPAC; CS USAF Wash DC
Nr:
CX 54200
JOINT WEEKA 65
29 Dec 49
Japan:
Political:
(A) Important changes or contemplated changes
in govt: Diet passes cabinet-sponsored bill providing
year-end allowances for public employees (CINCFE WEEKA 64)
before going into recess. No legislative activity until
23 Jan. premier Yoshida declares time ripe for merger of
coalition Democrats with Democratic Liberals. Trade-mdustry
Minister Inagaki shows sign of defection fr Inukai spt.
Cabinet announces draft of 50-51 bud, totalling 661 billion
yen, substantial reduction fr 49-50 bud. Diet makes no
decision on arbitration boards recms on rail wage issue;
Board Chairman Suehiro threatens resign over govt failure
to adopt recms. National pers authority indicates
determination to administer civ sv exams to govt ofls in
spite of cabinet opposition. Social Democrats plan drive
to expand Diet str by absorbing splinter grps.
Economic:
(A) Proposed or actual economic changes: Curr
issue reached 339399 million yen 26 Dec. Expect release
of 1000 yen notes on 7 Jan 50. Coal production steady at
slightly over one million tons per l0-day period. Cotton
manufacturers hope to purchase 400 thoysand bales raw cotton
fr non-dollar areas during 1950. Ap1 given for use of 8600
million yen fr counterpart fund in bldg of 275 thousand
gross tons ocean shipping and refitting of 29 war-time-ocean-
going vessels. Amt to cover 50 per cent of bidg costs and
70 per cent of refitting costs.
CM IN 3065
(29 Dec 49)
129
SECRET
COPY NO.
DA SCO FORM
22-2
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-848719

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.98)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54200
page 2
North Korea:
Mil:
(B) Maj changes in orgn,- equip, str: Rpt on Chinese
Communist Forces (CCF) trps in North Korea mentions arrival
one bn Chongjin (4146-12949) 10 Nov 49. Different rpt states
40 CCF officers and men used as peoples Army (PD) tactical
i structors at Hae ju (3802-12542) on 12 Nov 49.
Comment: Foregoing KMAG rpt one of few on
specific utilization CCF pers in peoples Army. Preceding
rpts ment1oned inclus1on 150 CCF trps each PA Bn (FEC
Int summary 2406); 1ncorporat1on CCF trps into PA units at
Hamhung (3954-12732) and Wosan (3910-12726) (FEC Int
gummary 2615); use of CCF pers as leaders of PA platoons
or larger units at 38th parallel (FEC Int summary 2503).
Various rpts on PA armor mention arrival 100 tanks
Chorwon (3814-12712) 25 Oct-3 Nov 49; arrival 6 Soviet
tanks North Korea 29 Oct 49 and subsequent delivery to
Third Div; Tank unit undetermined size Chorwon Area Nov 49;
assignment 15 tanks to Third Div 12 Dec 49; assignment
22 tanks to PA trps Pokkye-Ri (38226-12716) and 15 to PA
trps at Chorwon on 25 Oct 49 after arrival on 22 Oct 49;
Tank Bn Chorwon Area (3814-12712) 29 Nov 49.
Comment: In view foregoing KMAG rpts and all pre-
ceding info, this Hq accepts presence undetermined nr tanks
Pckkye-Yonchon Area. Orgn and subordination also undetermined
but increasing indication that armor in area subordinate
to Third Div rather than under centralized control gen Hq
at pyongyang.
(C) Trp concentrations: Recent repts on Third
Div dispositions place Seventh Regimental Hq at Chorwon,
First Bn at Yonchon (3806-12742), and Second Bn at Kumhwa
(3818-12728) in Nov 49. Third Bn, Eighth Regt. located
Yanggu (3806-12800) Dec 49. Third Div Arty Regimental Hg.
CM IN 3065
(29 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949—O-B48719

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54200
page 3
First and Third Bns at Chorwon with Second Bn at Yonchon
10 Dec 49. Hq Third Div reported Pyongyang (3824-12718)
10 Dec 49.
Comment: Foregoing KMAG rpts additional strong
indications that entire Third Div, with possible exception
Ninth Regt, may now be in Pokkye-Ri-Yonchon Area.
Two ammo dumps reported Chorwon Area early Lec 49.
Dimensions aprx 90 feet by 45 feet by 12 feet and 75 feet by
45 feet by 11 feet.
Comment: Regarded as add evidence presence maj units
Third Div in area.
North Korea college and university students subjected
to mil tng since 1 Nov 49.
Comment: Regarded as source of mil manpower in add
to CCF, regular conseription, field tng centers. PA possib e
intensifying efforts in expansion program.
Philippines:
Political:
(A) Important changes in domestic and foreign
policies: President Quirino 20 Dec stated that Philippine
China Legation in Nanking is to be transrerred to Taiwan.
Transfer will leave Philippines without diplomatic represent-
ation in Communist China. Philippine Consulate maintained
Hong Kong.
Philippine Foreign Office states former Canton
Liaison Officer, Delfin Garcia, instructed to proceed fr
Hong Kong to Taipei, Taiwan.
Undersecretary Foreign Affairs, Felino Neri, stated
Philippines considering elevation Batavia Consulate to
Embessy status.
CM IN 3065
(29 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-848719

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
LINCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54200
page 4
Economic:
(A) proposed economic changes or reforms: Quirino
18 Dec stated his intentions.. for new exective dept to
increase governmental efficiency. H B Reyes, Govt Economic
Coordinator, named possible head office-man body with position
in cabinet as secretary of economics.
Mil payment certificates system installed by
FHIICOM (AF) 21 Dec. Cuirino approved use US script after
conference with Ambassador Myron Cowen, Maj Gen Howard
Turner, and Rear Admiral Fragcisild. Quirino stated measure
"Not only tenable but laudable".
Philippine National Economic Council approved draft,
19 Dec, for philiprine-Thailand barter agreement. Exchange
of Philippine sugar and hemp for Thailand rice and work
animals is proposed.
Mil:
(C) Trp movements, incidents and opr: Philippine
Constabulary (PC) sources 17 Dec stated that 100 Moros
Ki led by 48-hour bombardment on Jolo Island in Sulu Sea.
Govt trps and AF began all-out assault on Moro positions
23 Dec.
Subversive:
Hukbalahaps reportedly intensifying propaganda
campaign in Central Luzon. New rumors involve alleged
activities Huk Comdr Luis Tarue. Huk capabilities reportedly
increased owing to bountiful harvest and pe valence
uncontrolled fire arms throughout islands.
RYCOM:
Political:
CM IN 3065
(29 Dec 49)
SECRET
DA SCO FORM
22-2
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949O-B48719

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
CLASSIFIED
SECRET
INCOMING
MESSAGE
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
STAFF COMMUNICATIONS OFFICE
Nr:
CX 54200
page 5
(C) Reaction to important events: Recent
benefits to native population of Ryukyus have temporarily
silenced Leftist peoples Partyand democratic alliance members
who recently criticized provisional govt. Secretary Gen
of peoples party, Senaga Kamajiro, has proposed that he and
leaders of democratic alliance and Socialist Party make
formal call upon mil governor to express gratitude for
improvements and suggest added reforms. Socialist party
leaders have indicated Senaga is attempting to gain prestige
Tor the "Popular front" and declined participate.
ACTION:
ID
INFO :
AF, NAVY, PO, STATE, SDLO
CM JN 3065
(29 Dec 49)
010 2908112
es,7
DA SCO FORM
22-2
SECRET
COPY NO.
15 JAN 1949
U. S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE : 1949-O-848719

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.92)
R ROUTING SLIB
FROM Tokyo
NO498
ACTION:JA
COPIES TO CD
1F8
201C-
LEUR/X
DA
IFER
I FEC(ER-)
8
