894.76 Wireless Telephone. Broadcasting. Divided As 8**.73., August 16, 1943 - October 17, 1944 (File 1456)
ID: 894.76-1456   Pages: 574   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.76-wireless-telephone-broadcasting-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
y/jm
TO BE TRANSSUTTED
ARING OFFICE
LINDICATE WHITHER
TELEGRAM SENT
Full rate
CONFIDENTIAL
Day letter
RESTRICTED
Night letter
CLEAR
Department of State
Charge Department:
AIRGRAM
Full rate
Day lett
Washington,
Night leter
SEVENTE
Charreto Orfice of Economic Warfare
August
1943.
134
118im)
AMERICAN EMBASSY,
894.76
CHUNGKING.
894.76
1 302
1159
5e
Your no. 1374, August 4, 3 p.m.
That mail and cable summaries of economic material from
monitord Japanese broadcasts may be discontinued is agreed to
as
by the Department and OEW.
894.76/134
The
Confidential
Confide PS/JB
qa1
FE
Para of telegram from Stone, OEW
DM:FAL:ASB
N
gm
August 13, 1943.
7m
M..
19
20-00000-1

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.89)
WILL INDIGATE WHETHER
TELEGRAM SENT
full rate
Day letter
CONFIDENTIAL
Night letter
RESTRICTED
Department:
Department of State
CLEAR
AIRGRAM
ull rate
lay letter
Washingeon,
light letter
o to
Office of Beosemie Warfare
Pan us
Phig/a.
AMENBASSY
Fad:3
CHUNGKING
Referenc0 your 1374, kngest 4th.
Department and O.B W. agree to discontinuance of
mail and cabls summaries of economic material
from monitored Japanese broadcasts.
ni
203
OW-S-S-D. Villardsalg
8/18/43
borod by
M.,

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
EE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
DM
LSH
Chungking
This tel Egram must be
closely paraphrased bE-
Dated August 4, 1943
fore being communicated
to anyonE. (SC)
FROM
REC'd
9:36 a.m. 5th
ch
Secretary of StatE,
Washington,
Derense Materials
1374, August 4, 3 p.m.
OnE. REquest authorization disconepuament
of
State
telεgraphic and mail summaries cconomic material
894.76/134
894.76/83a
894.76
894.76/86a
July 24 and 752 August 21, 1942), bEcausE; (A)
infor at on Ministry's deily rElscse in ChintsE
is now forvarded in microfilm by IDC; (B)
broadeaats in English monitorcd Iocally by OWI
arE undcrstood to bE Juelicated by FCC. (If OEY
dEsirEs, copiEs of OI daily rEleasEs of DomEi
news in English will be sent via pouch weekly);
PS/ATB
(C) limitation on usE or stcrEt codE.
wo. Embassy is submitting despatch covering
July broadcasts as material already translated
AUG 24 1943
FILED
A TCHESON
RR

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
hum
97113
PARAPHRASE OF TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FROM:
AMEMBASSY, Chungking
TO:
Secretary of State, Washington
DATED:
August 4, 1943
NUMBER:
1374
CONFIDENTIAL
1. Authorization to discontinue mail and cable summaries
of economic material from monitored Jap broadcasts (Depart*
ment's cables of July 24 and August 21, 1942 nos. 666 and 752)
1s requested because: (a) IDC now forwards in microfilm the
information of the Ministry's daily release in Chinese; (b)
it is understood that FCC duplicates broadcasts in English
monitored locally by OWI. (Copies of OWI releases of Domei
news in English will be sent weekly via pouch if OEw desires);
(c) limitation on use of secret code.
2. Since the material has already been translated and
compiled, a despatch covering July broadcasts is being sub-
mitted by the Embassy.
ATCHESON
20B
DCADB:JTM 8/6/43

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
n
le
'IDENTIAL
Copy to PAH
August 7, 1943
PHILIPPINE ISLDS
Daily Report
Foreign Broadcast Inteiligence Service
August 6, 1943
Guerrillas. A Tokyo broadcast reported the capture
of "a ringleader of the eneny guerril a corps in the
southern sector of Luzon, Lieutenant Colonel Hugh
Straughn, of the U.S. Army" Au ust 5. Straughn was
identified as the instigator of tne attenpted assassina-
tion of Laurel. (In previous broadcasts the alleged
instigator was described as Hugh Strong, an Anerican
schoolteacher.)
894.76/1
Swiss in Manila. A discussion of Swiss residents
in Manila was broadcast from Tokyo.
"Manila: Swiss residents in Manila comprise a distinct
894.76
group among the city's alien population by confining their
activities to business and social fields and renaining
aloof from politics... Though not partaking in political
3
affairs, the Swiss residents are contributing to the recon-
5
struction of the New Philippines by engaging in local trade..
But their sympathy is marked and their convictions strengthened
by such brutal anti-xis acts as the bombing of hospital
ships and, more recently, the wanton raid on Rome."
AUG1 2 1943
FILFD
(1
1.3
PS
FE:JohansenALM

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.89)
August 17, 1943
roply seter to
Ny dear Kr. Watson:
I meknewledge with thanks the reonipt of your
letter of August 14, 1943 with whieh you snolosed a
study of commentators and ccmmentaries featured on
the Japanese radle. The study 1s most interesting
and ueeful to thie Division.
894.76/136
Sineerely yours,
p
Laureaee E. Ballebury
Asalgtant Chief
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
Me. Geedwin Watoen
1e04k street .v.
Vashingtem ss, D. 0.
PS/DAB
FB

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.91)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
PAYNE
FOREIGN BROADCAST INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
VEN
1424 K STREET N. W.
AKEFIELD
WASHINGTON. D. C. 25
SURR
August 14. 1943
ackm.
Angust 17,4
r. Lrerce lir
arstern visio
St: te be ort ent
Wsnt
r.r. 
ne'osed is  str. of  Is  ular e) entators
ane co ntori s re rec r r st secti.
894.76/136
Fer truly urs,
Gaodeain Waloom
Goodwin i tson
Chief, a l:sis ivisio
Enclosure
PS/DAB
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
August 4, 1943
TOKYO'S REGULAR COMMENTATORS AND COMMENTARIES
(In mglish, ehiefly in Ameriean trans-
missions, but alse in those to Australia
and to Earope.)
1. Takee (er Tateme) Akiyam gives a series of talks entitled "The Code
of Japamese Warriers." The talke began early in July and appear every
Friday.
Akiyame gives his comments with se bedk an acsent that evem with good
reseptiem tramseription is very diffioult. His practice is to take
up poist after peint ef the Imperial Code - valor, benevolenee, unity
ete. - giving a schoalmsterly exposition of the principle and illus-
trating it with an apprepriate story from Japamás wars. In brief re-
feremees to current affairs, he seeks to show that the warrior code applies
to the matien as a whole.
The talks sound like translatione from an indoctrination course for Japan-
ese middle-schoel students, and their listener appeal may be rated accord-
ingly. Tokyo calls them "highly revealing talks."
2. alime Amme is the most frequent speaker in the "Light from the East"
commentary series, a daily feature which is one of Tokyo's oldest stand-
bys.
Asuma, who often delivers his own talks, is deseribed as "an outstanding
autherity on ourrent affairs." His voice is somewhat harsh and strident
and his delivery monotonous. His acoent is not marked.
Amuma is evidently given a wide latitude in choice of subjeet-matter, for
his diseussions range from semal immorality in the United States to
Japan's "Eakko Iahin" (universal brotherbood: Japanese style) principle.
Dessdest demeerasy is probably his faverite theme. Into it he likes to
weave the line that "Japan is fighting for what the American people were
told they entered the war, and the United States is fighting against these
ss."
Hs wse of Eaglish is smooth and surrent, and he would rate above the
average of Tokye's commentaters.
3. Jagee Dade beldly started out in June with a series oalled "The Truth
Bekind the Hows," whieh simee has besome a Tuesday feature called
"mdreek News and Previewe," plus the "Trutk" en Fridays.
Intredesing his first talk Jane 12, Tekye prondaed "...another great
Among the beokn he hes writtam are twe latest omes, tTan Iears af Reese-
veltis Adsinistratien,' and Deelime of Aagle-ameriean Prestige,: which
gained a wide sdrealation ameng the merious stadente of world erents.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
For five years, from 1933 to 1938, he was the New York correupondent of
the Tokye Nichi Nichi and the Osake Mainichi. On his return to Japan
be became one of the most (..word..) writers of magazine articles on
world affairs, especially America."
Like Amume, he turns his attention in many directions -- Indian inde-
pendemoe, Tojo's utterances, American domestic confusion, and the
construction of the oo-prosperity sphere. Also like Amum, he often
appears personally; and his style is eesy and colloquial.
4. Ken Gotg, "the well-kmown commentator on current internaticnal
affairs," comes on Thursdays two or three times a month. The evi-
dence at hand indicates that he speaks only in the transmission to
Australia and the South Seas, which, incidentally, is also intended
to hit the Allied troops.
Therefore it is noteworthy that some of his com entaries have sought
to derogate American Facific stretegy. A recent cne professed to
"sympathize with the weary American scldiers on the South Pacifio
1slands" who have to go through the "ordeal" of a " jungle by jungle"
campaign against the specially trained Japanese. Otherwise his
talks are not exceptioral.
5. Shigee Hata was introduced May 1l in a "series of commentaries which
bage been written with the purpose in mind of starting a train of
thought in listeners' minds leading to a better understanding and
awareness of what the world is going through today." He opened with
a strong attempt to sell the co-prosperity sphere as "the first
conarete aotual step" toward a cooperating, peaceful world; his
first two commentaries sounded arost like peace feelers.
While Hata is still tryine tc enlizhten the uninformed American public
on the subjeot of the co-prosperity sphere, he is concentrating equally
on the ignorance of the average American about United States losses,
lack ofincere" war aims, and other such standard subjects.
The staff announcer always reads Hata's commentaries. None of the
recent ones could be termed outstanding.
6. Erangea Hopking speaks Thursdays on the "Light from the East"
program. the is the mest durable of the several foreigners Radio
Tokyo employs; en July 29 she announoed that she had been broadoasting
just a year. She is believed to be an ax-missionary, but she herself
has only said that she is "not a Cathelic."
Her voioe is high-pitehed and unpleasant, her diotion is unclear, and her
delivery is mervous and harried. The monitors coneede, howe or, that she
is improving slightly.
Franees Hopkims spesialises in deploring Americs 's retreat from humanity
and Christiaxity, holding up Japan as a model of intermatianal merality.
Ber faverite words are "Christianity," "honor," and "dishonor." A typical

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
-3 -
 Fer Ameriea too I pray for salvation through honor and peace:
m't you?"
7. eape ada is the travel man whe takes his listeners on get-acquainted
tours threagh the friendly, harmonious ee-prosperity sphere. His special
fumetiem is to show hew the natives love the Japanese and viea versa. His
series, "Dawm Over the Pasirie, " bas been going on for several months, but
he seldom has to fill his breadeast period with tales twice told.
His mierophone personality is as bland and flowery as his artiabes. Sample
eonclusiens "And that is Greater East asia today, a happy place where man
and womem and whind are working with a new light in their ayes and on
their fase the light of a new dawn over the Paeifie."
8. Iake  comes on each Wednesday in a series called "The War as I See
It." The "moted military commentator," as Tokyo calls him, apparently is
keard only via recordings. He affects a calm and analytieal tone, his voice
is not umpleasant, and his accent is not pronounoed. Oba has been a Tokyo
feature for some months.
His desigmation as a military commentator does not prevent him from indulging
in the broadest generalisations about American domestic affairs, American
marale and purposes. His real funotion seems to be that of rounding up
the ourremt war situation, in all its aspects, from the Japanese propagand-
ist's viewpoint. The truly military roundups are usually the work of a
member of the Imperial Heedquarters.
9. "Pat to Charlie - One Amerigan to Another" is heard Tuesdaym and
Satardays. Several months ago it took the form of a dialogue in which the
maive questions of Charlie gave Pat a chance to put his line across. But
Pat lest his pal and now eails his talk a "one-way conversation."
of all Tokye's commentaries, this is the mosi polished and best adapted to
the Ameriean mudience. "Pat" speaks slowly and distinotly, in a rather
grave voiee whieh does not have a trace of an accent. His is the easiest
ef all voioes to transeribe. Me eogers the American seene most frequently,
but alse takes a turm at all other propaganda sutjects.
10. Iaii ate calls his series "On International Affairs." In point of ser-
viee, he is one of Tokyo Radio's senior commentators. Lately his appear-
amees heve been irregular. Nis talks are among Tokyo's better ones im
eempesitiom and wse of the Eaglish language. He sticks pretty closely to
Ameriean affairs.
11. Iamme Iammda has presented his "Nows on Parade" since early this
year. At p resent he speaidm Monday, Wedneeday and Friday. Iamada writes
à ahallow mowe reviow in atilted agliak and presente it with the peeudo-
British mecent ealtivated by maxy Jeganese anneuneara. Mis most usual
lime is Japan's idealimm and altraism, and the healtky progress of the
sandiste whe minimise and ameer at Japan's aime in sponsoring the
sphere.

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
Asia Marahe  is a weekly (Saturdays) review of the progress of
 se-presperity sphere. stirring masical fade-ins and fade-outs seek to
sive it a dramatie quality and the ontire thing is p robably based om
"Times Marohbes On." The coxtent is a simplified, coordinated rebash of
all the news from Japanese-held Asia that the radio has been broadeasting.
It would have little appeal to the regular follower of Tokyo's newseasts.
Here is the standard prolegue: "Asia marehes on. A tale of resonstruction,
rehabilitation. Here is the progress of Asie. North and south, east and
west, from the frosem tip of Manchukuo to the tropical fungles of the
southerm areas from the mumerous islands of the western Pasifie to the
eastern borders of India - one thousand million people of Asia building,
constructing a new world order. This is the picture of Asia today and
in this series of talks, Radio Tokyo presents a word picture of this
mighty continent as she progresses in her victory march week by week."
13. The "Chgildrem's Bour" is heard Mondays and Thursdays. Most of the
time is taken up with a fable from abd Japan, and if possible the woman
speaker throws in a little super-simplified news of the "Asia Marches
On" variety. The speaker sometimes moralises along these lines: And
now be goed little boys and girls -- the good always wins in the end.
"Wrong-doers will always get their punishment in the end, so be good.
And see if you oan be really good boys and girls until we meet again..."
Oocasionally the period is used as a vehiole for more positive stuff, as
whem the annoumoer gave a sad tale about American prisoners in Japan,
regretting that it all had to happen, and concluding with the names of
some prisoners.
I4. "The Church ms Hour", on Wednesdays, consists of a few minntes:
worth of news items dealing with religious developments of interest to
fereigmers -- usually Christian churches and organisations formerly
controlled by foreigmers.
Very little overt propaganda is attached. The effort is apparently to
make things seem as normal as in pre-war times. The period might as well
be entitled Christianity Continnes." It is noteworthy that this broad-
cast onee had oocasion to land Kagawa.
1943
15. "The German Hoar" made its debut August 1, when Tokyo altered all
of its tranemission sohedules. The heaf-hour period of news, commentary
and mmasic parports to be a relay broadoast from Berlin. It appears
daily, and caly in the evening transmission to the western United
States and Latim America. The current German commanique heads the
mowseast, and only a few items refer to the Far ast. The commentary
wweally deals with European affairs.
A woman identirying herself as Diana Pewers opens the pregram by ehirp-
ing "This is Tokyo. Helle America. Hello San Franaiseo. This is
Bermany speaking to you through Tokyo. A similar program, 'Japan
Speaking From Germany,' will be heard from Berlin in the mear fatare."
Them she introduees the mews annoumeer, Miohael Munt. Hunt and Powers
take turms in giving the commentary.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
5
voiee is apparently that of a young and educated person, with a slightly
itish aesent. He reads in a deliberate end elear fashiom: Both are very
good announcers. Neither has been heard from Takyo before.
The broadcast reaches San Francisoo with sueh clarity as to raise the question
whether it is actually a direct relay from Berlin. Our engineers peint out
that a good traas-Asiatie tranmission could be arranged at the hour in
question (12:30 A EWT, 6:30 A in Berlin, 1:30 PM in Tokyo) by uming the
15, 18 or s0-megaeyele bands. Two of the Tokyo stations used are in the
15-megacyele bend. However, there is not a sign of fading on the Berlin
tranmitter, if indeed it is a relay breadeast. The broadeast comes through
almost perfeetly "solid." Authentie Berlin relays heard from Shanghai
are never mo good. Probably the program originates in Tokyo; it might
be mponsored by the German abassy there. If so, it would seem to be a
gag to intrigue listemers and attract a larger audience, as well as to
give Berlin's emanations a better play on the West Coast. The mame would work in
the case of "Japan Speaking From Germany," mutatis mutandis.
16. "Japan's Science and Medicine" has been given Sundays since June 27, when
it was inaugurated with the hope to make a contribution to the social wel-
fare of manking." It is one of the "Light from the East" presentations.
As the title implies, the series seeks to prove that Japan is well-off in
food and medical supplies, up-to-date in diet and sound of health. There
are also many references to the benefits Japan is bringing to the Asiatic
countries along these lines.
17. "This Is the Story" appears irregularly with a dramatic akit purport-
ing to give the sentiments of participants in big events during the Pasific
war. A reeent one was based on the joy of Chinese,according to Tokyo.
over Japem's return of the Iatermatiomal Settlement at Shanghai to the
Nanking regime. On May 7 the story told of the fall of Corregidor
through two Ameriean soldiers (of the Radie Tokyo variety).
18. "The kees's Hour", on Wedaesday and Sunday, is possibly one of Japan's
mest effective progrems. The underlying thought, of course, 1s that women are
the same the world over. Several of the speakers have been Japanese women with
Amerieen experiemee who go very effeetively through their experienees, reeall
their admiration fer Ameriea, and them regret that they had to be disillusion-
d. On July m Tokyo brought on an artiele "by an American woman who has...
beecme a maturalimod Japanese."
Instanees of pleasemt Japenese home life are given in an intimate over-the-
beek-yard-femee mammer, and in a wmy to minimise the gulf between Japanese
and meriean soeiety. Per exmple:
"...yesterday was cur smmer house-clesning day. Of course we sweep and
dast heuses every day, but this was e spesial quartorly elesm-up. Our
mhole meighberhoed wmit begam from early moraing. Our tatemi, or thick
straw mats, were aired and brusbed in the hot July sun. Our distriet
health inspeetor eame to K our efforts, and also ebeek our airraid

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.95)
-6-
kaipmemt. What a grand feeling it was to feel ready for any contingenay.
"In remmaging about the alosets I came across some dusty photographs
takem in Ameriea. The children clamored for the smapshots and the old
falks too. sitting on the cool veranda, sipping tea, we looked at those
pletares. Pietures bring memories of past joys, hopes and fears. 'why,
this is the Feurth of Jaly pienie at the beaeh. Hare is the birthday
party for Earaka,' the abildrem aried, in reeognition.... y younger
dengater piped up and said Do you think Edward's father will fly over
here and throw bombs on us?: I look at my ehildren and could not ans-
w。"
k emy Temming is giving a current series on the Wednesday period
of the "Women's Hour." of her Tokyo said the following:
"r. and Mrs. Eeny Topping came to Japan in the year of 1895. They
gave mearly 50 years to edseation and spesial service. Their two shildren,
Belen and williard, have followed their parents in similar service; when thew
were wrged to retarm to the Umited States they shose to spend their last days
in Japan. r. Topping's days eame to an end last August at the age of 86
years. Mrs. Topping, now im her soth year, hopes to serve to the end the
eause ef international fustice and goodwill."
(When Mr. Topping died, Tokyo devoted two or three periods to eulogies to
him. Gontrary to the ammonmcer's introduction, both Helen and williard
Topping are at present in this country.)
contirnisticom, and uhilare nas sasd it woes not soona lke his mother's voice
of an alderly Ameriean weman, being pitcbed mmhmmahiek moderately high
and subjeet to some quavering. Delivery is deliberate, clear and emotional,
though weak. The tone is that of a minister's wife addressing the church
womem's elub.
Despite all this, er perhaps beesuse of it, Mrs. Topping is an effective
speeker for the WWomen's Bour." Ber talks are intimate and sonversational,
ealivened with personal aheedotes and dignified by literary quotations.
She does net so mek grind Japan's axe as lament war in general and the lack
of wederstand between peoples which (she says) brings it on. "Gan you tell
me why so many women of the privileged elasses are like silly sheep, eontent
to mibble away in their sweet pastures of private property and to be led about
b the propagande of soft shepherds? thy do they not devote their anergies
to perseading these in power at this aritieel time to call eff the dogs of
war, at least fer a season, and to take solemn couneil as to the future,
as to their respemsibilities tewarde the millions of common people who besense
of this war are being rebbed of their inalienable righta of life, liberty am
the parouit of happdness? Per they have nothing to gain and everything to
lese in this typical imtermatiomal suieide."

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.96)
-7-
 like me should be the great educators and reconcilers of the races.
yeu tell me why they are not at this time more deeply realising their
erld-vide sisterhood?"
Peotmote: Tokyo ealls Mrs. Topping "the most-loved and honored American
hare in Japan."
19. An Gcsasional commentater is Erank Watamabe, who gives a performance
styled after H. V. Haltenborn. Tokyo stated that he is "familiar to
radio fams im southern California," and added that "Ee, 1ike maxy others,
fall a victim to the shameful immigration law and came to Tokyo where he
is living happily with the full assurance that his home will not be broken
up by separation." This was early in July, when he gave three bitter talks
o the Immdgration Lew of 1924, full of stories of Japanese families
Separated by the operation of that haw.
The mase and the imtroduction reeell the radio entertainment program
whieh erigimated in Station x, Nollywood, about ten years ago called
"Frank Watamabe and the Monorable Arehie." In this progran, whieh was
very popular, Watammbe was the star performer, the Japanese houseboy of
the Monorable Arehie. Sinee the Hollywood Frank Watanabe (believed to
be in reality a Captain Bill Royee) was and is a Cameasian, it seems
quite possible that a mised who returned to Japan seised on the name
in order to attrast listemers.
At any rate the commemtater's idiomatic English, complete with slang, and
assentless voiee substantiate the statement that he lived in America.
Late in July be reappeared with a talk outlinging the history of America's
"proveeatiom" ef Japan. He specialises in war guilt and charges of racial
diserimination.
20. Besides the commentators and commentries above, Radio Tokyo gives a
eomsiderable mamber of talks of uneredited suthorthip. Usually they are
said to have been "prepared spesially for this period." But a few of
them have beem so fluent and well-done ts to raise the question whether
semebedy of John Molland's ability wrote them. (Molland has not been
heard frem Tekyo simee Mareh or April, when OWI eaught Nolland committing
himself to an Allied victory and broadeast that fast to the Far Bast.)
Sommentary periods are often given over to special speeehes, such as a
tramslatiom of a Diet speesh by Tojo or a statement by the Board of
Dnformation spekeeman, Tomokamu Nori.
Da gemeral, Tokye has sottme its cosmentaries down into a routine rumming
erder which variee little from week to week. Cld FBIs hands believe that
there weed to be a mek lees regalar sekedule of speakers and appearanees.

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.96)
Wellowing are names of persons formerly broadcasting from Tokyo and
apled China. Some of them have not been heard recently. The back-
Found material is furnished by FBIS editors and translators on the Coast,
Trom their omn personal knowledge. It is unofficial and its accuracy
cannot be vouehed for in the absence of up-to-date information.
1. Ghagles Hiese Yoshii: He wmas heard from Tokyo until shortly
after Pearl arber, but bas been eitber silent or working under another
name sinee them. Be greduated from the University of Oregon at Bugene
in 1932. Origimally registered in class of '31 but took an extra year.
He participated little in student activities. He went to Japan in 1935
where he got a job with the Japnn Broadoastins Corporation at about 120
yem per month. The job probably came to him through Professor Takiso
Matsumoto of Meiji University who was responsible  securing Yoshii
amother post as a teacher at Keio Preparatory University. His acquaintance-
ship with ex- Poreigm Minister Matsuoka was trivial--only acquainted, in
that both were greduates of University of Oregon.
Teshii broadeast on the West Coast beam of Radio Tokyo for four years
but has now branehed out. He married the daughter of a wealthy Sendai
family and by l94l be had two children. he must be about 33 years of age.
2. Sheishi Murate, broadoasting irregularly. He is a Hawaiian who
attended the University of Hawaii for two years, then left for Japan in
1933 where be entered Waseda University and stayed six years. He used
to announee the graveyard shift for Radio Tokyo in its transmission beamed
to Barope, the South Seas and South America. He joined the Japanese Broad-
easting Corporation in 1936. He is about 30 years of age.
3. Williem Axling, not a member of the staff but heard rather frequently
until last fall. He is a Lutheran missionary who has lived and worked in
Japan for many years, and has at times served as an apologist for Japan.
His name appeared on pamphlets upholding Japan's position between 193l and
1938. (A note in the August 6, 1943 edition of the Shangha1 EVENING POST
AND MmCURY said "Dr. William Axling of Tokyo is interned at Urawa, and his
wife at Swmire, Japan"-AGM)
4. mrd Mmraiahi: San Francisco-born Nisei who does a Spanish-
language in eddition to English-language stint. His father was former
5. Drmikde Saishes graduate of the University of Michigan, a member
of the Tekye staff. In addition to broadcasting she writes commentaries and
progrem.
Anether Fmis San Francisco editor, who returned on the Gripsholm in
1942, farmisbes material out of his own personal experienee in Shanghai.
Seme of the information mmy well be dated now:
STATIOLXONME
This German station is censidered the most efficient and highly organised
in the Orient. It is mamaged by-

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.96)
-2-
Carl Flick-Steger, an ex-American of German extraction, born and
Ln Providenee, Rhode Island, where he was simply Carl Flick.
Tegether with his mother and father, he returned to Germany some years
ge and fer e time wae connected with the Berlin and Vienna offices of
Uaiversal Newe Servé (now incorporated into INS). He went to high sehool
or prep sebeol with "Tommy" Corcoran of Washington. He takes his orders
now from Dr. Frits Cordt, energetic Press Attache of the German Embassy in
Shanghai. Policies and plans are colored with a due regard for the feelings
of the loeal braneh of the Masi Party, who sometimes cannot keep up with
Flick's dashing American way of getting things done and taking the according
ahanoos.
2. Berbar My: Outetanding announcer and commentator of XGRS is
Herbert Moy, Mew York born Chinese, who spent a year in the New York Bureau
of the United Press, some ten years ago. He speaks with sincerity and con-
vietion but will bave no part of Wang Ching-wei or the Naniing crowd, refus-
ing to be asscsiated with any propagands for them. His sympathies are with
the Chimese people, and he claime to be one of them. In renouncing his
Ameriean citisenship upon the declaration of war, it is believei the Germans
have given him 'safe-conduct' papers in lieu of an out right Nazi passport.
3. & 4. Johm Holland and Franke Johnston: Also a top ranker is " Jack"
Helland, an Australian, who goes by the name of David Lester. He is an
outright opportunist although be speaks with some conviction in his contempt
fer the British Government. He took over the Walla Walla broadoast from one
Pat Melly (Frankie Johnston, Shanghai born Irishman, Free State passport)
when that worthy disgraced himself by a shady deal on classical records
with a British Eurasian announcer of the Japanese controlled (Japanese Army)
statiom DMha. Johnston and the Br!tish Burasian each served fifteen days
in Bridgehouse. neither returned to his previous job. Impressed with
Balland's delivery and diction, the Germans were quick in upping his pay and
gave him mmch more responsibility. Holland bad first come to Shanghai in
1937 whem he obtained some sort of privilege to file news to the Sydney
sum, of whieh filing he did little or none. When the Japanese scheduled the
first bombing of Nanking, he went there with O'Dowd Gallagher of the London
DAILY mXPRESS, as an assistant. Afterwards be went to Singapore, engaged
in the motoroar business. He was a member of the Volunteer Air Corps but
was 'turfed' out for making anti-British remarks in a bar. Returning to
Shanghai sometime before the Pacific War, he lived by his wits and, when
breke, borrowed from friends. He tried to join the British Forces but was
turned dom.
Threugheut the last winter months, a caily commentary was iven by
Jaek Melland. No referenee was ever heard to his name of David Lester, no
eemneetiom was ever drawn with him as an XGRs personality. It was, however
the same veiee. Me mas not been heard from sither Tokyo or Shanghai recently
hewever and there has been no exeuse or reason given for his sudden precipi-
tatlem to eblivien. It is thought in San Francisco that the commentaries
wese reesrded in Shanghai and shipped to Tokyos in short that Holland was
not there himeelf at all.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.95)
-3 -
the ond of April 1941, he applied for the joh with XGRS and was
Ged. He had tried to set a job broaicasting for the Japanese but was
maccessful. His family reside in Australia and a divorced wife is be-
red to be in Singapore.
5. Reggie Hollingaworth, who puts on the Haw-Haw British accept program,
1s believed to be British, having arrived from Japen during the pre-war
British evacuation from thcre.
6. Miss liow, a northern Chinese girl loes the Chinese announcing.
7. Andersont The worst announcer, thoug he is showing improvement, is
a hacghai boy belteved to be a British L resln named A derson. Though
simply announcing preparei cop:, he s beli ved to be now thoroughly steeped
in the Germanic thome, nd aoout reay for work with better pay.
XGR3, like all German propagainda oTices in Bhanghai, nns literally
money to burn. Around-the-cipck recordin ; rn made of Auerican broadcests.
The station is hea  i. northern Austr  er te ationality of Herbert
Moy  roused considerable pecule lon -ven it has here in Americn. The
statior has an excellent department, .t erded music 1brary a d ras been
buildiue u  first c ss resenrch  a taent, with particuiar emph sir on
collecti ns o pa.t speechee o Pr  lent Ro sevelt. Mo it or the argumentative
material la written by moy, wno in given utty much of a free hand. A
Sunday night skit is written sally  Fl: stagud by Moy and himself-
sometines with aduitional  taf! if th re i. something they consider particularly
hot news or nens good or riicule. Tue st tior represents a pa't of the
great propaganda orgnnization which t. e Nazis have set up in Shanghai, parti-
cularly aimed at the whole Pacilic. kecent acquisitions nclude a Russian
girl announcer. she nad been married to A rican sailor an lived some
time in Manila prior to the var. li lire oney  havine aoquired  common
American speech, she is at  present do ery well financially.
MISCELLANY
Other stations incluue XQHC of tht Shanghai LViNING POST, which 1s allowed
to operate by 'kind permission u1 the Jp ese Army' and which accordingly
broadcasts all the aiy nants to wei.  t' regulr rens announced by Tom
Butler, Irish Free tater, news editor of the Post and former momber of the
Fourth U. S. Marines, a Mre. hobertaon wicor oi an Aerlcan, of British
Eurasian blond herself, does the eveni:g ness announcing plugs a Germany
company's Californis wines.
A Japanese station in Hongkkew br accests in English, Chinese and Japanese.
▲ mhite Russian radio program from s station i: the French Concession believed
now underwritton by the Soviet Russiana, takes issue with the Gernan XGRS
on the German-Russian war in which most of the White Russians are usuelly
very red. (Many of them are applying for an receiving Soviet papers.)
The Free French are not on the air now but before the war had an hour
on the American DMiA as well as the British propaganda station XGon which has
been out of operation since the war. The regular French station in the French

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
ion, operating for the past six years or so, is a Vichy medium-wave
Hoasting mostly Havas-Teleondial end musical progr ms. Madame Riviera
lling probebly not right) is the manager. A news announcer now advanced
program announcer is an Anerican named Cal Hirach. He was for sixteen
years a member of the editorial staff of the North China DAILf NEWd, where
he has accumulated muper-annuation money he cannot collect. The News closed
down on December 8, leaving its employees high an. dry much to the disgust
of the British residents of Shanghai and the community at large. Hirsch,
with a wife and child to support needed the job. He can now if he wis!es
get money from the American authorities to live sufficiently well while
waiting repatriation. Hin wife is Mhite Rssian.
Don Chisholm, still maint ining his ac ndel column in his Shopping Wews,
is doing the announcine and comment&tin over the J panese-controlled XHA.
An Amerioan, he 1s believed to have asked for the job. He has been in Shanghai
since 1930 and carries a shaly reputetion, apparently built up long before
hostilities.
The Italians, dependint mostly on XGRs for their ra:io time, do not
cut much of e figure in Shanghai.

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.94)
September 14, 1943
Bear Mr. Hester:
Kerewith a copy of despateh no. 1445,
August 7, 1943, from Chungking, together
with exeerpt of the portion of its enelo-
sure which coneerns the Philippines.
Fw
Sincerely yours,
894.76
Frank P. Lookhart
Enelosure:
As stated.
(N
Mr. K. D. Hester
Offiee of the Umited
States Migh Commissioner,
Department of the Interior,
Washington, D. C.
mg8
mm

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.92)
1445
Chunckine, Aurust 7, 1943
Subject: Nconomie "aterial from Jananese
Broedcasts for thm Offioe of
conomic Warfare.
The Hono able
The Secretary of Strte,
Washineton. . .
sir:
I heve the honor to refer ti the Trhessy's telegram
No. 1374, Aurust 4, 3 .m., and to trensnit herewith e
selection of economic rerorts taken finm Juranese radio
broadcasts, obtained from hine se and Americun monitor-
Ine services in Chungcing, durin the month of Fuly 1943.
Resnectfully yours,
Ceoro, Atcheson. Jr.
Charee d'affeires u..
Enclosure:
Renorts, as stated obove.
In single conv to Perartment
850
CB/mcl
PS/Li

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.97)
CONTENTS
JAPANESE EPTRE
Aluminum Froduotion in First Quarter Exoeeded
Goal
Produotion of Five ey Industries in Korea
Being Pushed
Invention of Lubricatine Oil Renovator Reported.
1
Training Youths to be Agricultural Experts in
South
2
New Silicon Xines Discovered in Ibaraki Prafecture
2
Substitute Soye Feen Sauce from Conra Cake
2
New l'ethed of res ine Iron Sand Patented
3
Treatmont of heat and Barley Seeds with
Roentgen Rovs
3
Reports of Tourth Tlenary Sesrion of Central
Cooperative Council of Taisei Vokusarkal
(Imnerial Rulc Assistance Association) at
Toky, Ju1y 14-16, 1043
4
Remarks of General Suzu i, I resident of Flennine
Foard
4556
Tolio Admits Inrurriciency of Vood in Ja-an
Insufficiency of "ood lentioned in Another Teport
Condition of Kice Cron in Janen
Statement by Ra lways inister on Transnortation
Probleng.
6
Report on Secona Dar's Leeting of Tatrei
Yokusankai
7
10. Contro' Cver Iroduction and onsum-tion of
fotatots
3999
11. Tixed Pricef for Tin Reduced by 4: Tercent
12.
Yergers of Jevanere Shipning Comrenies
13.
Tositive fforts to Increase Troduction of Fibers
14.
Rollin Stoc: roduction Increase len Anproved.
10
15
Report on Rice Crons in Ta an, Horea and Formosa
11
16
Discovery of New (il Filterins Proces for Notor
Vehicles
11
17
Two S all Ships oneted to Janan se Irmy
12
18
Times for Yews Broedcnsts to Southern Areas
Announc
12
19
Equinment from losed Gold "Ines to be used
12
20
Large Veins of Chrome Cre Saii Di coverel
in Kokkeido.
13
21
Prospects for Produc tion of Stratefic 'etals
Said Good.
13
22.
April-June Coel Cutnut Exceeded Goal by 10
Peroent
13
23
Castor Beans to be Donated to War inistry
13
24.
Bauxite Said Discovered in Janan Troper
25.
Inoreesed Troduction of l'agnesium Desired in Japan
14
26.
More Rubber Goods Available in Jenan
14
MACIURIA
27.Increased Agr cultural Produotion Discussed at
Neeting
14
Batablishment of New Agricultural Development Bank
15
Constructicn of Huenien Hydrceleotric Tower Plant
15
Collaboration of Japanese Industriel Companies to
be Sought
15

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTANTS
fhoreased Production of Fluoraper at Molungchuan
Micte that Crops in l'anohuria will be Above
15
Average
33. Troduction of Iron, Non-ferrous Hetale and
16
Con1 Disoussed.
34. Manchuria Torestry Compeny Inoreases Cenital
16
17
INNER MONGOLIA (MENGCHIANG)
35. Completion of Sangohien River Dam in Inner Mongolie 17
36. Indurtrial Developments in lengchians
17
OCCUPIED NORTH CHINA
37. Flood Prevention Mork in North Chira
38. Roport on North China Developrent Company
18
39. Reports of Drought in North China
18
40. Postel Service Throughout China Maintained.
19
41. Prospects Said Bright for Bumper Crops in North
20
China.
42. Rigid Supervision Over Peinine Flour Stores
20
43. Co1lection of 1943 Income Taxes in Peiping
20
44. Yellow River Dyke Extended by l80 Filometers
21
45. Establishment of North Chine Fiber Control Crgan.
21
Improved Wheat Seeds in "orth China.
21
Satisfaction Expressed Over Selt Output et Chenglu
22
Self-Suffioiency in Foodstuffs in Shansi Province
22
49. Amounts of Foods Rationed in Feiping
22
50. North China Steamshin Conpanv to Build Wroden Shins
22
23
OCCUPTED CE TRAL AND SOUTH CHINA
51. Three-Year Plan for Reclamation in Kiangsu Province
Reconstruction Frojects by Nanking Regime
23
Reclamation Work on Yanetze River Delta
24
52. Taxation Policy of Nanking Regime Stated
24
53. Partial Pevision of Ywenetung Customs Tarirf Made.
25
54. Kwangtuns Punpets to Purohase Foods
25
55. Price of Rice at Yangchow, Yiangsu, Advancing
26
56. Visit of Jaranese Econorio Misslon to China
25
Objeotives of Jananese  ission Announced
27
Statements Made by Members of Jaranese ission
27
Establishment of Frice and Currency Police
27
Advooated.
Mombers of Mission Interviewed bv Chinese
28
Journalists
Objeotives of Mission to Chine Said Attained
29
57. Movement of Rice from Soochow to Shane hai
31
Emtsblishment of Food Warehoueing Administration
31
Commodity Price Arbitration Commission Reinstated.
32
Might Navigation Allowed on Pearl River
32
32
anking Regime Sponeors Lottery to Absorb Excess
32
InD-Jabanese Cil and Food Committee Being Formed
32
ok Verket for Cigarettes in Manking
33
 Inspestion Office to Combat Smugsling
Donete Medical Supplies to Nanking Regime

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.97)
CONTENTS
Page No
Manking Regime Has Deficit for First Half of 1943
tatemant on Nanking Regime's Wartime Economic
Polioy...
34
Part or Enemy Properties at Yankow Transferred
35
Retrocession of French Settle ent in Shanghai.
35
Italy Gives Up Riehts in International Settlerent
36
Other Suropean Countrles Renounce Settlement
Riphts
36
73. 24 'ore Tactories to be Returned to Chinese Owners
36
74. Shanphai Chincse Stock Exchange to be Recpened
37
75. Reorganization of Semi-Cfricial Japanese Comnanies
37
75. Union Formed to Centralize All Jananese Trade
Orgens
37
77. Canton Becoming Importent Industrial Center
38
78. Nanking Organ Seeks to Trede with South Sens
38
79. Black larket Frice for Rice Reduced.
38
80. Kwangtung Fuppets Tass Bil? for Control of
Resouroes.
39
81. Italy "Ill Return Tientsin Concession to Punrets
39
82. Transfer cf Enemy Ascets in Canton Area.
39
83. Control of Cocreretives Murned Cver to lanting
Regime
39
84. Jananese Cive Up Tax Exemption Rights
40
85. Intorior of China to be Opened to Janerese Reriderts 40
HOUGKONG
86. Telegrarhic Service Between Hongkon and "anoiweri
40
87. Second Grrduation Ceremony of Seer en's Institute.
41
B8. Increeeed I'ininp Activities in Sonekon Region.
41
89. Remittances b: Cversess Chine se to Honrkong.
41
90. Rehabilitetl : of Industries at Honokong
41
Expansion of Industry in Hongkone-Kowloon Aree
42
91. Hongkong to Fave Agricultural Afforestetion
Institute
42
92. Postal Fervice Between Fonekong and Mengchieng
43
PHILIPPINE ISIANDS
93. Inoreased Production of Textiles in Philippines
43
94: Sixteen "ore Tost Ofrices Reopened
44
95. Telegraphic Connection With Theilard Grened.
44
96. Reopenine of Telegraph Offices in Philirnines
44
97. Seamen's Training School Easteblished
45
98. Four Concrete Briapes Crened to Trafric
45
99. Pampanse-l'anila Steamship Line to be Restored
45
l00. Government Revenues During ley Increesed.
45
10l. Philiprine lational Bank Reorens Three Branches
45
102. Inoreased Ronittarces to Fongton- and Cccuried
China
4€
103. Return of Properties to Chinese Residents
46
10k. Bank Deposits Increase in Ihilinpines
46
l05. Whoat Wlour Subetitutes Made In hilipnines.
47
10b. Public Worke in Mindoro Province.
47
l07 Imorease in Mumber of Cargo Boats Calling at lanila
47
NETHBRLANDS EAST LIES
xuridicel System Inaugurated in Java
47
ined Mogulatione for Native Orficials in Java
48

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTENTS
10. Census of Soerabaya to be Taken August 1
i. Proceeced Srioes anufact red in Lacesser
1t2. Meonomic Developments in l'ew Guinea Reported
113. Gathoring or Sea Shells for 'aking Buttome
1lt. Substitute Wool Produced from Wild Silkworm.
50
115. Air Mail Servdce Between Ja an snd East Indian
Islande
50
116. Substitute for Asphalt Invented
50
117. New Agr'culturel Schocl to be Orened at Marelang
51
118. Borneo Youths for Mecessar Senmen's Trainine
School
51
119. Expansion of Salt Production in est Borneo
51
120. Brisk Activity Reported in Celebes end Borneo
51
121. Broadoasting Station to be s tablished at
Pontianak.
52
122. Work of Macassur Sc:entiric Reseerch Institute
52
123. Natives Taught to llake Peper from Rice Stalks.
53
124. Purchase of Jave Cotton at Fixed Prices.
53
125. Cotton Ginning Mills in Celebes Reedy for
Operation.
53
BRITISH MALAYA JD NORTH BORNEO
126. Automobile Aseenbly ilant in Cinsarore.
54
127. Diving Cperators Institute Foundcd at Sineapore
54
128. Japanese Soldiers Teechin: Agricultural Fethods.
54
129. Comment on Five-Year Trduetrial Exnansion Plan..
54
130. Effective Drug for Amcebic Dysentery Cleimed
55
131. Large Singapore Floating Dock Said Refloeted.
55
132. Expansion of Peonle's Bank in I'alaya
56
133. Tannine Plant Establiched in Ferak Stcte.
56
134. Rubber Used for Surfacing Airfield Eunweys.
56
135. Prices for Rubber and Fubber Goods Jomered
57
136. Froduction of Cil from Rubber Seeds to be Started
57
BURMA
137. First Shipment of Janenese Spindns and Teavine
Bquipment
58
138. Burmese Central Stete Ban: to be Lstablished
58
THAILAND
139. Gold Yen for Settlement of Imports fron Japan
58
140. Bumpr Crops of Rice Expected in Thailand This year
58
FRE:CH INDOCHJNA
141. Unified Code of Civil Las Po atives in Indochine 59
142. Aerenrent for Supuly of Commodities from Janan.
59
143. Commodity Interohange Cornoretion of Janan..
60
1l4. Subsidies for Speedy Delivery of Unhulled Rice
60
145. To Dincuss Pol'ticel and Economic Condition of
Indochina.
60
146. Natives Ad itted to Certain Government Positions
61
147. Collection or Poll Tar from Thai Reridents Abolished 61
B. Roport by Domei in Chinese of Indochina Develoomente 61
9. Cobstruotion of Large Fishin Fort near Saigon.
63

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
-43-
92. Postal Service Between Honskong and Mengchiang.
Hongkon, July 27.- The communications bureau
of the Honpkong go vernment general announced that postal
service between Honpkong and Mengohiang will be opened
from August for repistered as well as ordinary mail.
Ordinary letters cost 12 sen which rate is the eame as for
mail between Hongkong and centrel and south Chine as well
as between Hongkong and Janan. The coumunications bureau
also is pushine plans to open a nostal service between
Hongkong and north Chine in the near future. (Domei in
English).
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
93. Increased Production of Text: les in Philinpines.
anila, July 3.- Self-sufficiency in textile
articles in the Thilippines is speedily being attained
with plen after plan heing put into effect for the
acceleration in stren thening the country's cotton
in ustry. It is recalled that most of the textiles
was imported from Taran prior to the war. Native
production averared only one percent of the local
coneum-tion...However, following the Janan se army's
arrival, a plan was irrediately established for the
increesed production of cotton ani raximum native
production of textiles. Textile vorks in the Philippines
include the Naticnal Indis trial Comnany (20.C00 snindles)
and the Philippine Cotton Mill (, Co srirdles). The
present 20,00 snindles are busilv engaged for long hours
in sninning out high grade textile articles. Articles
manufactured presently are being supplied to those engared
in reconstructin develonment projects. Since the reserve
stock of articles imported prior to the war was abundant,
free purchasine was permitted even prior to the ar ival
of the Ja anese army until April this year. However,
from ay the coupon system of sales will be instituted
for a more rational distribution of textiles. The military
administration has decided to increase the textile pro-
duction facil:ties to three times the present size. Stens
are already being prepared for irporting spinning and
weaving faoilities from Janan, of which 50,000 srindles
will be allocated in the Thilippines. The question of
raw materials is expected to be solved with the successful
operation of the second and third year plen of production,
now that the first year has been completed with great
success. The National Industrial Company is now experi-
mentine with encouragine results in the production of
textiles with 40 percent hemp mixed with cot ton. It is
expeoted that this will speed up the solution of the
raw cotton question. Lately also success has been
achieved in manufacturine oloth in which wool consists
of cotton warp of hemp (?). N'eanwhile, this year's
harvest of raw cotton is rapidly being converted into
teable tertiles by the National Industrial Company.
94.

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.93)
-44-
94. Sixteen "ore Fost Offices Reonened.
Lanila, July 9.- It is officially ennounced
today that an ad itional roun of 16 post offices in the
Thilippines will be reorened shortly to ha cle mail,
postal money oraers and rostal sevings, bringing the
total number of rost offices now in operation to 30?.
Specific post offices to be reo"ened are the follwins:
Isabela in Negros Occidental province; Augdanga:, Tayabas
province; Tnfante, Laguna provirce: Talisev and Consolacion,
Cebu province: Santo Domirgo, Sputn Tlocos province;
Tilik, Mindoro rrovince; Castillejos, Zambeles province;
Rosario, General Trias snd Sila ", Cavite i rovince: Tiwi
and Libon. Albay province: Sen afael, Bulucan province;
Aborlan, Palawan province, end Bani in Tansesinan rrovince.
(Pome! in Trulish.
Panil, July 23.- Comunicetiore tnrouy put the
Philinpines were virtuelly restored to corrlete norralcy
with the sopedy roo or ine of the postal tolecrenh end
vireless str ti:. itt indere eree on'y few nonths
avay, euthoriti s f telecorrun: cati s 'se vice?! will
oren a few officcs wt. oh e still clores. It is under-
stood that nore th'n 5 rert of ices in Tuzon and Visaya
are now nend: i pestal sevins e denosits and money
order busives:. (I in ngiirh'.
35. Peleerle Ponnectlor It llund Prened.
"anil, Fuly  Te lille ine telecronh
cormunications bureau wi?l 'anale teleprams between the
Islands and Tha'lend fror: tororrow at 5t centavos a word.
For the time beins only tele rars addressed to Benskok
will be accepted. (Tomei in Eaplish).
96. Reorening of Telegrerh Offices in Philippines.
Manila. July a.- The Thiliopine telephone com-
munications bureau recrened n tetal of 6o telerrorh
offices by Tuly 4 th rcuohout the arc':nelcpo. It is
exrected thet oversees te eprap le cormunication with
al? parte of the islands will be established shortly.
Worty-three of the 60 teleerah offices also will
operate service while the rest will use regular lines.
l'eanwnile, the ureau also has succeeded in reonening
the telephone offices in 31 Important cities and inter-
city as well as local telephone services have alreedy
been reopened. In addition, three special communication
offices have been created, cornectine the recently
developed arees. (Domei in Fngl!sh).
Manila, July 13.- The ihilipnines telecommuni-
cat'ons bureau announced thet telegranhic fervice will
be commenoed on uly 16 by the newly established telegraph
ofrice at Fabrica, Negros Cccidental province. (Donei in
Rnglieh).
Manila, July 17.- The Thilippine communications
today announced the onening of rive new telegraph
a rive provinees which will accent telegrams in
log and English. The new offices will be
he following placesr Gapan, Nueva Ecije
provinoo;

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
provinoe; Gattaran, Cagayan province; Cabagan, Isabela
province; Aritao, Nueva Vizcaya province, and Iba,
Zambales province. (Torei in English)
97. Seamen's Training School Fstablished.
Manila, July 9.- Followins the develonment of the
1slands' coastal communicatione, the increase in seamen
is now a necessity. In view or this the naval authorities
in the Thilippines have decided to give traininw to the
seamen of the islends. Graduetee from primary schools,
between 16 and 20 years of age, will be selected end given
fundamental trainine. 'pon their graduation after a year
of study they will be sent to sea to take care of communi-
cations work. (Domei in Jananese).
98. Four Concrete Bridges Opened to Traffic.
Manil-, July 10.- Four concrete bridges in
southern Juzon were opened to traffic vesterday, follow-
ing impressive ceromonies. They are the San Cristobal and
San Juan bridges situated at Calambe. Laguna province;
the Paniadero bridre situated at San Tablo, Laguna pro-
vince, and the Cagnos bridge at Tiaong, Tayabas province.
Reconstruction work on the four bridges, started in Ferch
this year, was carried out by wilinino foremen in coonera-
tion with the Jacanese military administretion. (romel
in Engl1sh).
99. Pampange-Planile Steamshin Line to be Re: tored.
Manila, July 16.- The stea ship line between
Pampanga and Manila, connecting Guangua in Pampanga with
Manila city, will be restored shortly. The steamship
line was discontinued three years ago prior to the out-
break of the current war. It 1s understood that the
service will greatly aid in linking Manile with Pampanga
whioh is now enjoying an unprecedented business and
agricultural boom. Meanwhile, the truck line has been
opened to join Baguio to the lowland provinces including
Tarlac, La Union, Ilocos Norte, Bontoc and Pangasinan.
(Domei in English).
100. Government Revenues During Nay Increased.
Manile, July 16.- The government's collections
from internal revenue and customs taxes during the month
of May this year showed an inorease of approximtely
Pesos 300,000 over the previous month. Pilipino econo-
mists, commenting on this inorease, said it was a good
indication of the expansion of coxmereial and industrial mtivities
in the Philippines. (Domei in English).
101. Philippine Natiomel Bank Reonens Three Branohes.
Manile, July 16.- With the reopening of three
of the Philippine Nationel B

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
-46-
102. Increased Remittances to Honskone and
Cocupied China.
Manile, July ló.- Remittances by Chinese over-
seas merchants to Honakone and Nanking-cont rolled China
have been increasing rapidly both in emounts es well as
in number of remittenoes. In May the totel remitted was
Posos 187,0c0 while the number of remittances totalled
531 which was double the monthly avsrage over the riod
of four months beginnine with January. The total number
of remittances and the amount for the five month neriod
since regulations controllin remittances went into
ffeot on January 21 were 1,275 end 324,c00 pesos
respectively. (Dorei in English).
103. Return of Properties to Chinese Residents.
"anila, July 22.- In aporociation of the all-out
efforts of the Fhilinpines Chinese Residents Society here
in estab'ishmert of the new 'hilipoines, the Jaranese
military edministration on uly 20 r turned pert of the
Chinese properties hitherto held in custody as enemy
assets to the oririnal owners. Restoration of Chinese
properties, which consist of 1? buildin's and houses and
other iters, was disclosed in 8 notlfication on July 20
to the chairman of the Chinese Rer1dents Soci ety bv the
director of the general affairs bureau of the military
administration. It was pointed out in the notification
that the Chinese Residents Society, Fince its organiza-
tion a year ae), has wholeheertedlv been rendering assist-
ance to the military administration in economic reorgani-
zation and maintenance of peace and order in the hilinpines.
(Dome1 in English).
104. Bark Derosits Increase in Philinoines.
Veniln, July 23.- reflecting the healthy economic
activities in the Philippines, bank deposits throughout
the islands have registered e merked gain with the figure
for the end of June totalling Pesos 275,00c,000, or a
gain of Pesos 61,c0o,co0 as compared with the corresnond-
Ing figure at the end of l'arch. The June figure also
rooorded an advance of about Pesos 50,000,000 compared
with the total of Pesos 224, 000, 000 prior to the out-
break of the present war. In view of the faot that 17
banks were in operation before the war as compared to
the preeent seven, it oan well be concluded that the
eeonomic activities wi thin the fhilipnines have far
topped the prewar level, even consicerine the natural
wartime increase of commodity prices. Of the total bank
denosits, two Japanese banks accounted for Pesos 112,000,000
for a gain of Pesos 46,800,000 over the end of Maroh total
while four rhilippine banks are resnonsible for the remain-
bank deposite, 1ncluding Pesos 150,c00,000 in current
pos1ts, r1s1ng about Pesos 30.000,000, and Pesos 16,000,000
doposite. rising by about Pesos 3,300,000. Special
posits, mavings sccounts and correspondence
alled Posos 47, 700,000, gaining by Pesos
 she mharp increase in current deposits

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
-47-
is believed to be attributed in increased economic
activities, the ain in snecial current derosits and
correspondence deposits as well af savings deposits
is understood to be due to an increase in intereet
rates on these deposits from l'ay 1. Financial
giroles believe that a future (further ) increase or benk
doposits will be noted within the coming few months,
reflocting the smoother cormercial transactions due to
the wider use of cheques and abolit ion of the distinc-
tion between conditionel derosits und unconditional
deposits. (Domei in English).
105. Wheat Flour Substitutes Msde in Thilirnines.
Manilt, July 23.- A program to attein self-
sufficiency in bread and noodles through tne use of
substitutes such as pulverized rice, corn and cassava
is being realized as local flour mills are satiefectorily
meeting demands of the people. Frior to the outbreak
of the wer only four small scale flour mills were found in
Manila but presently more than 10 mille, includins those
under the management of Chinese residents, are in opera-
tion. l'eanwhile, experimentel wheat growing is being
carried out by the authorities concerned and, if success-
ful, more flour riils are expected to be constructed.
(Dore: in English)
106. Public Works in Mindoro Province.
Manile, July 24 (from Celnan, Mindoro).- With
a total anpropriation of Pesos 135,Cc the province of
Mindoro is embarking on a sienificant public works re-
construction program which ircludes bridee construction
and road repair. It is un erstood that the constfuction
of the Alag and Longos brilges alonf the Calpan-San
Teodoro highway was completed recently while repair work
along Calapan and NauJun beach is elso underway. (Domei
in English).
107. Increase in Number of Cargo Boats Calline at
Panila.
Manila, July 24.- Cergo shipe plying between
various points in Greater East Asia and stopping at
Manila are ever increasing, according to the Tribune.
It is said that recent!y great quantities of general
merohandise, including cigarettes, tea and matohes,
have arrived in Manile from Hongkong and Canton. The
goods are scheduled to be distributed to Filipino merohants
shortly. It is understood that the supply of daily
commodities from Japan, Shanghai, Canton, Honekong, and
ports in Taiwan and Manchoukuo are on the increase with
the goods being constantly sent to Manila as well as to
other distributing centers of the Philippines. (Domei in
hnglish).
HERLANDS EAST INDIRS
Jurtaieal Syetom Inaugurated in Java

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
CONTENTS
Item No.
Page No.
JAPANESE MPIRE
1. Aluminum Production in First Quarter Exceeded
Goal.....
1
2. Production of Five Key Industries in Korea
Being Pushed.
1
3.
Invention of Lubricating Oil Renovator Reported.
1
4.
Training Youths to be Agricultural Experts in
South.......
2
5.
New Silicon Mines Discovered in Ibaraki Prefecture
2
6.
Substitute Soya Bean Sauce from Copra Cake.
2
7.
New 'ethod of Dres ins Iron Sand Patented.
3
8.
Treatment of Wheat and Barley Seeds with
Roentgen Rays......
3
9.
Reports of Fourth Plenary Session of Central
Cooperative Council of Taisei Vokusankai
(Imperial Rule Assistance Association) at
Toky0, July 14-16, 1043....
4
Remarks of General Suzuki, President of Tlanning
Board......
4
Tojo Admits Insufficiency of Food in Japan.
5
Insufficiency of Food :'entioned in Anot her Peport
56
Condition of Rice Cron in Janan.....
Statoment by Railways Minister on Transportation
Problems...
6
Report on Second Day's Meeting of Taisei
Yokusankai.
7
10. Control Cver P'roduction and Consumrtion of
Potatoes......
8
11. Fixed Prices for Tin Reduced by 4º Percent.
9
12.
Mergers of Jananese Shipning Comnanies.
9
13.
Positive Efforts to Increase Troduction of Fibers
9
14.
Rolling Stock Production Increase Plan Approved.
10
15.
Report on Rice Crops in Janan, Torea and Formosa
11
16.
Discovery of New Oil Filtering Proces for Motor
Vehicles.....
11
17.
Two Small Ships Donated to Japanese Army.
12
18.
Times for News Broadcasts to Southern Areas
Announced......
12
19.
Equipment from Closed Gold Mines to be used
12
20.
Large Veins of Chrome Ore Said Discovered
in Kokkaido..
13
Prospects for Production of Strategic Metals
Said Good.....
13
22.
April-June Coal Output Exceeded Goal by 10
Peroent.
13
23.
Castor Beans to be Donated to War Ministry.
13
24.
Bauxite Said Discovered in Janan Proper...
I4
25.
Inoreased Production of Magnesium Desired in Japan
14
26.
More Rubber Goods Available in Janan.
14
MANCHURIA
27. Inoreased Agricultural Production Discussed at
Meeting.....
14
28. Bstablishment of New Agrioultural Development Bank
15
29. Construetion of Huanjen Hydroelectric Power Plant
15
30. Collaboration of Japanese Industrial Companies to
be Sought......
15

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
CONTENTS
tem No.
Page No.
67. Nanking Regime Has Deficit for First Half of 1943
34
68. Statement on Nanking Regime's Wartime Economic
Policy.......
34
69. Part of Enemy Properties at Hankow Transferred.
35
70. Retrocession of French Settlement in Shanghai.
35
71. Italy Gives Up Rights in International Settlement
36
72. Other European Countries Renounce Settlement
Rights.....
36
73. 24 More Tactories to be Returned to Chinese Owners
36
74. Shanghai Chinese Stock Exchange to be Reopened.
37
75. Reorganization of Semi-Ofricial Japanese Comnanies
37
76. Union Formed to Centralize All Jananese Trade
Organs.....
37
77. Canton Becoming Important Industrial Center
38
78. Nanking Organ Seeks to Trade with South Seas.
38
79. Black Market Price for Rice Reduced.
38
80. Kwangtung Puppets T'ass Bill for Control of
Resources.......
39
81. Italy Will Return Tientsin Concession to Puppets
39
82. Transfer of Enemy Assets in Canton Area.
39
83. Control of Cooperatives Turned Over to Nan'cing
Regime......
39
84. Jananese Give Up Tax Exemption Eights.
40
85. Interior of China to be Opened to Jananese Residents 40
HONGKONG
86. Telegraphic Service Between Hongkong and l'anokwari
40
87. Socond Graduation Ceremony of Seamen's Tnstitute..
41
88. Increased Mining Activities in Hongkong Region.
41
89. Remittances by Overseas Chinese to Hongkong.......
41
90. Rehabilitation of Industries at Hongkong.....
41
Expansion of Industry in Hongkong-Kowloon Area
42
91. Hongkong to Have Agricultural Afforestation
Institute...
42
92. Postal Service Between Hongkong and Mengchiang.
43
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
93. Increased P'roduction of Textiles in Philippines..
43
94. Sixteen More Post Orfices Reopened.....
44
95. Telegraphic Conneotion With Thailand Opened.
44
96. Reopening of Telegraph Offices in Philippines.
44
97. Seamen's Training School Eastablished..
45
98. Four Concrete Bridges Onened to Traffic...
45
99. Pampanga-Manila Steamship Line to be Restored.....
45
l0o. Government Revenues During May Increased.
45
l0l. Philippine National Bank Reopens Three Branohes
45
102. Increased Remittances to Hongkong and Oocupied
China......
103. Return of Properties to Chinese Residents......
104. Bank Deposits Inorease in Philippines.
46
105. Wheet Flour Substitutes Made In Philippines.
47
106. Public Works in Mindero Province..
47
107. Inorease in Number of Cargo Boats Calling at Manila
47
NETHERLANDS EAST INDIES
10s. New Juridieal System Inaugurated in Java..........
47
109. Revised Regulations for Native Ofricials in Java..
48

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
CONTENTS
om No.
Page No.
110. Consus of Soerabaya to be Taken August 1
48
lll. Processed Spices Manufactured in Macassar..
48
112. Eoonomic Developments in New Guinea Reported.
49
113. Gathering of Sea Shells for Making Buttoms.
50
1l4. Substitute Wool Produced from Wild Silkworm.
50
115. Air Mail Service Between Ja an and East Indian
Islands........
50
116. Substitute for Asphelt Invented.
50
117. New Agr cultural School to be Opened at Magelang
51
118. Borneo Youths for Macassar Seamen's Training
School...
51
119. Expansion of Salt Production in West Borneo.
51
120. Brisk Activity Reported in Celebes and Borneo.
51
121. Broadcasting Station to be Established at
Pontianak.
52
122. Work of Macassar Scientific Reseerch Institute.
52
123. Natives Taught to Make Paper from Rice Stalks...
53
124. Purchase of Java Cotton at Fixed Prices..
53
125. Cotton Ginning Mills in Celebes Ready for
Operation.
53
BRITISH MALAYA AND NORTH BORNEO
126. Automobile Assembly Plant in Singanore.
54
127. Diving Operators Institute Founded at Singapore
54
128. Javanese Soldiers Teaching Agricultural Methods.
54
129. Comment on Five-Year Industrial Expansion Plan..
54
130. Effoctive Drug for Amoebic Dysentery Claimed....
55
131. Large Singapore Floating Dock Said Refloated....
55
132. Expansion of People's Bank in Malaya............
56
133. Tanning Plant Established in Porak State.
56
134. Rubber Used for Surfacing Airfield Runways......
56
135. Prices for Rubber and Rubber Goods Lowered.
57
136. Production of Oi1 from Rubber Seeds to be Started
57
BURMA
137. First Shipment of Japanese Spindng and Weaving
Bquipment......
58
138. Burmese Contral State Bank to be Established.
58
THAILAND
139. Gold Yen for Settloment of Imports from Japan...
58
140. Bumpr Crops of Rioe Expected in Thailand This year
58
FRENCH INDOCHINA
141. Unified Code of Civil Lawe for Natives in Indochina
59
142. Agreement for Supply of Comméeities from Japan....
59
143. Commodity Interohange Corporation of Japan........
60
144. Subsidies for Speedy Delivery of Unhulled Rice....
60
145. To Discuss Political and Eoonomic Condition of
60
146. Natives Admitted to Certain Government Positions..
61
147. Collection of Poll Tax from Tha1 Residents Abolished 61
148. Report by Domei in Chinese of Indochina Developments 61

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
holosure no. 1 to despatoh no. 1445, August 7 , 1943,
from American Embassy, Chungking, to the Department of
State on the subject: "Boonomio Material from Japanese
Broadcasts for Office of Eoonomio Warfare".
Economic items selected from Radio Broadeasts of
the Japanese and of the Puppet Regimes, released in
Chinese by the Ministry of Information, Chungking, and
covering reports monitored in Japanese and Chinese.
Material has also been selected from Domei news reports
monitored in English by the China Divlsion, United
States Ofrioe of War Information, Chungking.
JAPANESE MPIRE
1. Aluminum Production in First Quarter Exceeded
Goal.
Tokyo, July 2.- Bolstering immeasurably Japan's
warplane production for the prosecution of the current
war whioh is entering upon its decisive stage, Japan's
aluminum industry achieved remarkable results in the
first quarter period of this year with the production
far exceeding the goal, the Yomiuri-Hochi reported.
Prompted by the urgent necessity to Inorease Japan's air
force to execute the war to its victorous end, the
Govermment adopted appropriate measures to stimulate
increased aluminum production. Parallel with govermmental
efforts, the civilian light metals control body extended
all possible aid to the industry. The journal specially
pointed out the remarkable improvement in quality attained
by the aluminum industry. More than 95 peroent of this
year's production has a metal value of more than 99.3
pereent in contrast with last year's product which was
91 pereent... (Domei in English).
2. Production of Five Koy Industries in Korea
Boing Pushed.
Tokyo, July 2.- Plans to inorease the production
of the five key industries in Chosen, particularly iron
ore and light metals, are being pushed by the Chosen
Government General, the Nippon Sangyo revealed today.
Regarding the increase of iron ore production, measures
facilitating mining and effeetive utilisation of ore
dust as well as the enlargement of steel manufacturing
by the electric furnace method have been considered.
The Govermment General is also encouraging maximum
production of light metals by expansion of aluminum and
magnesium factories and the construction of new magnesium
plants as well as speeding the completion of installations
of the Sumitomo Aluminum Works and the Showa Eleetrio
Works. (Dome1 in English).
3. Invention of Lubrioatims Oil Renovator Reported.
Tokyo, July 2.- In view of the inoreasing demand
for lubrieating oils, the Japen Eleetric Maehinery
Industries, Tokyo, has imvented a lubrieating oil
renovator.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
renovator. The plan is to collect used lubricants for
refining by the renovator; excellent lubricating oils
can be produced. These renovators will be manufactured
in large quantities soon. Steam-propelled vessels from
20 to 250 tons may use such a renovator. The lubricating
oil refined by the renovator contains only one to two
pereent of water and is therefore the same as new lubricat-
ing oil (Domei in Japanese).
4. Training Youths to be Agricultural Exports
In South.
Tokyo, July 2.- The Agriculture and Forestry
Ministry will open the fourth training season shortly
at Yatsugatake, Nagano prefecture, for 200 selected
youths to be sent to the southern rogions. Aiming at
the introduction of advanced Japanese agricultural
methods and to improve agricultural yield in the southern
rogions, a four months' course of intensive training is
given to the youths between the ages of 18 and 25, destined
to be worthy leaders of the southern regions. (Domei in
English).
Tokyo, July 2.- Farm management and cultivation
methods of the natives in the occupied areas in the southern
regions are all vory backward. It has now been proved that
the production can be increased three or four fold by
adoption of Japanese methods of farming. The Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry has therefore decided to train
a number of directors for the improvement of agriculture
there. The central training farm at Nagano will give
training to such personnel to be despatohed to the
southorn regions. Graduates from agrioultural schools
or similar institutions, aged 18 to 25, of good character,
health and thoughts, may enroll. Two hundred students
will be admitted for training. The instructors will be
selected from among the staff of the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry and other agricultural authorities.
(Domei in Japanese).
5. New Silicon Mines Discovered in Ibaraki Prefeoture.
Tokyo, July 3.- There has been an increasing
demand for silicon which is indispensable for grinding
and moulding in the light metal industries for strengthen-
ing the fighting potential. Recently, a silicon deposit
of excellent quality ha been discovered in the pine
forest region in front of the railway station in South
Central village, Taga town, Ibaraki prefecture. This
deposit contains as much as 85 percent of silica and is
the ideal ore for making moulds. Moreover, the proximity
of the mines to the station, only l0 minutes distant by
walking, make transportation very convedient. The deposit
is only three feet below the surface of the ground. (Domei
in Japanese).
6. Substitute Soya Bean Sauce from Copra Cake.
Tokyo, July 8.- A new method of brewing "shoyu"
or soya bean sauce from copra cake instead of from
soybeans

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
soybeans and wheat was completed by Eiji Oyama, chemist
at the army eentral provisions department. Finding that
copre eake contaimed similar ingredients as soybeans,
Oyama, assisted by two Noda Shoya Manufacturing Company
experts, erperimented for two months before suecessfully
produeing synthetic shoyu. Already nearly 2,000,000
gallons of the liquid have been produced and army
authorities plan to carry out large soale production
which will not only meet army but also civilian needs.
It is understood that the use of copra bagasse will en-
able the diversion of 200,000 tons of soybeans and
133,000 tons of wheat, presently used to manufacture
shoyu, for other purposes. Synthetic shoyu not only has
an exeellent flavor but can be kept for a longer period
without spoiling. Since special equipment is not needed
to manufacture it, the present shoyu piants can immediately
begin turning out copra cake shoyu. Another feature of
synthetic shoyu is that it is ready for the market within
two months while soybean shoyu required at least one year.
(Domei in English).
7. New Method of Dressing Iron Sand Patented.
Tokyo, July l0.- Patent bureau ofricials disclosed
that a novel invention for dressing iron sand recently
was patented. They said that the patented process to
remove technical dirriculties hitherto attended in dress-
ing iron sand, which is abundantly available in the sea-
shore of Japan, will contribute a great deal to wartime
iron production. "The dry process for dressing iron
sand" was invented by Shigeaki Fujita and Ryukiehi
Takazuka in Fukuoka. Because of the big improvement in
ordinary magnetic dressing the machine newly invented is
one highly efficient. In place of a brass revolving
disc an iron one is used and the magnetic force has been
intensified about 20 times and furthermore centrifugal
force is utilized. Dried sand containing iron sand drops
on the disc revolving at high speed and all non-magnetic
matters scatter and fall from the disc while such
magnetic matter as iron sand remains on the disc because
of the electromagnet. (Domei in English).
8. Treatment of Wheat and Barley Seeds with Roentgen
Rays.
Tokyo, July 13.- Prof. Hitoshi Kihara, department
of agriculture of the Kyoto Imperial University, recent
academy medalist, succeeded in producing a specie...
(garble)...with cultivation period shorter by one month
than ordinary species. Prof. Kihara's new precess
requires the exposure of wheat seeds to high voltage
Roentgen rays for two hours. Differing from other
methods employing high frequeney electrie current,
Kihara's methods will permanently change the hereditary
charecter of seeds of wheat through a single applieation
of the rays. Pref. Kihare is also experimenting with
barley, which when suceessful, will result in the in-
creased preduetion of feodstuffs in general as well as
mimimiging seld weather damage to crops in northeast
Japam. (Domei in Emglish).

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
9. Reports of Fourth Plenary Session of Central
Cooperative Council of Taisei Yokusanka1
(Imperial Rule Assistance Association) at
Tokyo, Ju1y 14-16, 1943.
Remarks of General Suzuki, President of
Planning Board.
Tokyo, July 14.- Addressinp the first day session
of the general meeting of the central cooperative council
of Taisei Yokusankai, Lieut. Gen. Teiichi Suzuki, presi-
dent of the Planning Board, stressed the necessity of
completing the projected readjustment of the industrial
set up to bolster the fighting power of the nation to
the highest efriciency. Stating that in the last half
of 1942 and in the first querter of this year wa pro-
duction attained unparallel results, Suzuki declared it
is necessary to further increase the fighting power of the
nation by utilizing the strength of the entire people.
Although direct expansion of the fighting power of the
nation lies in increased production of airplanes,
ships and other arms, Suzuki pointed out that the basis
of increased production of these arms lie in the general
industrial fiolds. He pointed out that the present read-
justment of industrial enterprises aims at focussing all
elements on production in crder to enhance fighting power.
He added for that this purpose it 1s neceseary to pass
a law enabling...supply labor for war industries. (Domei
in English).
Tokyo, July 14.- On July 14 in the fourth plenary
session of the central cooperative council of Taisel
Yokusankai, Lieut. Gen. Suzuki, chief of the Planning
Board, delivered a speech on the special features and
enforcement of the industrial readjustments law, passed
by the last session of the Diet for the furtherance of
fighting strength. He asked the officials and the people
to cooperate wholeheartedly in order to earry out the
adjustments satisfactorily and with resolution and speed.
The gist of hie speech is as follows:
Production is an important factor of fighting
strength. Satisfactory progress has been made since the
latter half of 1942. Unprecedentedly excellent results
were attained during the firat quarter of l943, during
which period the results of important industrial pro-
duotion were highly satisfactory. In order to tide over
the pressing situation of the present stage, it must be
remembered that battles can be fought successfully only
with powerful military strength. It is true that the
most urgent requirements call for the increase of air-
planes, ships and fighting ferees. It must be also
remembered, however, that the foundation thereof is very
extensive. The past industrial adjustments, due to dirri-
culties arising from eontrelled economy, were often
modified to adjustments ef a voluntary, defensive and
negative character. The imdustrial readjustments this
time aim at turning all imdustrial fecilities into fight-
ing strength. As to the plans ef adjustments, no dis-
crimimation is made as regards exeellent or unsatisfactory
businoss

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
businoss performances in the past. Industries which
can easily be turned to war production will be changed.
This is the important feature of the present industrial
adjustments. As to methods of enforoement, sufficient
labor and steel are being diverted to the increase of war
production. The effects of these industrial adjustments
on the economic order are therefore also great. Several
billion yen will be disbursed to take care of these
adjustments. In dealing with the situation, the Govern-
ment is enforoing various plans and is seeking for satis-
factory methods in order to maintain economic order and to
strengthen economic power. Now, we must thoroughly under-
stand the demands of the war on us as well as the appear-
ance of the war. We must rely on our traditional spirit
of fearing no difficulties in order to seek widespread
wartime living. (Domei in Japanese).
Tojo Admits Insufficiency of Food in Japan.
Tokyo, July 15.- Premier Tojo today attended the
fourth plenary sossion of the central cooperative council
of Taise1 Yokusankai. From 9 a.m. to 1l.30 a.m. he listened
enthusiastioally to the discussions regarding the establish-
mont of a new life for decisive war and the distribution
of daily necessities. Before he left, he said that the
wartime life of the Japanese people must be thorough.
He said that the insufficiency of food in Japan is the
result of luxury (luxurious habits?), as Japan's food
supply is more abundant than that of any other country.
The people, he said, must therefore cultivate persever-
ance. He further said: "In order to attain the objectives
of the Greater Bast Asia War, besides ensuring the liveli-
hod of our hundred million people, the livelihood of a
billion people in the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere must also be ensured. As to the distribution of
food, the Government will exert further efforts to over-
come difficulties. Some one recently returned to Japan
from Europe. After passing through Germany and Russia,
he arrived in Manchuria and discovered a happy world
there. Upon arriving in Japan, he felt as ir he had
entered into paradise. During wartime, the people
should know that anything which is edible can fill the
stomach and prevent hunger". (Domei in Japanese).
Insufficiency of Food Montioned in Another Roport.
Tokyo, July 16.- The chairman of the third com-
mittee of the central cooperative council of Taisei
Yokusankai made the following statements: "There has been
certain insuffioionoy of food in Japan. To make up this
insufficiency, Japan once before melied on imports from
the South Seas regions. However, rice imports from these
regions require a large number of ships which are urgently
required for war operations or shipment of arms and materials,
especially since the present war situation presents a state
of a replenishment war. Japan should therefore promptly
abandon its reliance on foreign rice and establish the
strueture of self-support and self-sufficieney in riee
through increase of production in Japan and in Manohoukuo.
Th1s

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
This is really the pressing need of Japan. Through
the devoted efforts of all conoerned, the growth of
rice this year has been quite satisfactory. For
increasing food production, good fertilizers are
absolutely essential. It is hoped that the Govern-
ment will give due consideration to these points".
(Dome1 in Japanese).
Condition of Rice Crop in Japan.
Tokyo, July 16.- With the sound growth of rice
plants throughout Javan due to favorable weather,
prospects are bright for a bumper rice crop this year,
Agriculture and Forestry Minister Tatsunosuke Yamazaki
reported at the regular Cabinet conference this morning.
Yamazaki stated that the growth of rice plants this year
was notably favorable and that rice production in 1943
was certain to prove better than normal. Meanwhile
Yamazaki, taking up the same subject at the third day
sessicn of the fourth general meeting of the central
cooperative council of Taisei Yokusankai this afternoon,
reported on the sound growth of rice plants this year.
He further stated that the Government was extending every
convenience of priority for the production and distribu-
tion of fortilizors and agricultural tools under the
provisions of special wartime measures and regulations
and that the production increase in foodstuffs is certain
to progress smoothly. He urged the early stabilization
of complete self-sufficiency in the structure of Japan
Proper and Manchoukuo so that bottoms hitherto employed
in transportation will be utilized for shipping important
arms and materials to Japan's fighting services in the
southorn regions. (Domei in English).
Statement by Railways Minister on Transportation
Probloms.
Tokyo, July 16.- At the third and last day of the
session of the fourth general meeting of the central co-
operative council of Taisei Yokusankai today, the Railways
Minister, Yoshiaki Hatta, reported on wartime measures
being taken by the Railways Ministry for enhancement of
the nation's transportation capacity. He said that, in
accordance with the basic policy concerning the establish-
ment of an emergenoy struoture for wartime overland trans-
portation, it was decided by the Cabinet that transpor-
tation of such important materials as coal, iron and steel
would be handled as muoh as possible by overland facilities,
thus allocating bottoms hitherto engaged in coastal shipping
for transportation of vital materials to Japan from the
continent and the mouth. Touohing on the Government's
plan for transportation of vital materials in wartime,
Hatta disclosed that the eentral council for railway
transportation, which was established in May last year
within the Railways Ministry, had drafted and plaeed into
practiee several plans ineluding a plan for estimating on
a monthly basis the transportation of vital materials. He
said priority is being given to transportation of materials
vital to strengthening the mation's war industries as well

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
-7-
as daily living. In this conneotion the allocation of
transportation facilities is being so conducted as to
obtain the maximum efficiency in land transportation
by constantly taking into consideration the relations
between production and distribution.
Rogarding passenger traffic, the Railways Minister
said that appropriate measures are being taken by the
authorities concerned to meet the current situation.
Concerning truck and bus services, Hatte emphasized
that measures are being put into effect for inoreasing
the wartime transportation capacity of these services by
the amalgamation of enterprises, revision of the automo-
bile enterprise law, utilization of idle rolling stock
and by other means. He added that, in order to meet
the ever inoreasing volume of traffic between Japan and
the continent, a ferry service was opened on July 15
between Hakata and Fusan, supplementing the Shimonoseki-
Fusan ferryboat service now in operation. Hatta emphasized
that a "Work l0 Percent Extra". campaign, begun among
Government railways employees at the beginning of this
year, is proving very successful. He added that in July
and Áugust the production and transportation increase
campaign was successfully launched with the cooperation
extended by the Agriculture and Forestry and Commerce and
Industry ministries. In summing up the report, Hatta said
that for the further enhancement of wartime transportation
capacity more or less drastic measures will be necessary.
He concluded by expressing gratitude on behalf of the
Railways Ministry for the cooperation extended by the
Taisei Yokunsankai and other bodies for attainment of
the goal of maximum transportation capacity in wartime.
(Dome1 in English).
Fukuoka, July 15.- Further improving the marine
transportation service between Janan and Chosen, a new
ferry service between Hakata and Fusan, Chosen, was
opened today following the ceremonies held this morning
at the Hakata ferry station. Military, government
officials and civilians ettended the opening ceremony.
(Dome1 in English).
Report on Second Day's Meeting of Taise1 Yokusankai.
Tokyo, Julyl6-In the second day's meeting yesterday
of the central cooperative council of Taisei Yokusankai,
the people's own "national neighborhood assoclation", the
members were divided into four committees to continue a
lively erohange of opinions and presentation of proposals
for consideration of the Government. From early morning
the figure of Premier Tojo was seen going busily among
various committee sittings and listening attentively to
the diseussions. Also present were other Cabinet ministers
as well as bureau and departmental heads numbering over
100. Fifty proposals were presented during the day at the
committee sittings, but espeeially noteworthy were the
clear-eut responses given on various problems by govermmental
representatives. This eomradery but sincere exehange of
opinioms between the Government and people's representatives
may be said to embody the inflexible national unity of
Japax.
Following

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-8-
Following are some of the main reports and suggestions
admitted yestorday:
Susumu Kana, director of the general affairs bureau,
Commeroe Ministry: "Manufacture of machine tools comes
under the five main industries specified by the Govern-
ment and therefore merits priority".
Shoichi Nishimura, director of the forestry bureau,
Agriculture and Forestry Ministry: "Regarding materials for
the construction of wooden vessels, we are erperiencing
l00 percent satisfaction in materials this year. Timber
which has been voluntarily contributed by the people
totalled cver 90,000,000 cubic feet".
The proposal of council members to raise the maximum
working hours from the present 14 to 24 hours met with
unanimous approval of all representatives and Government.
Referring to the proposal for the organization of a workers'
reserve corps, voiced at the meeting on July l4, Ryuichi
Tamanouchi, departmental head of the Planning Board, said
"We believe the organization of such a body is a timely
measure".
In the meeting of the committee of food supply, Agri-
culture and Forestry Vice Minister Takeshige Ishiguro
took up opinions expressed by eight members and said:
"We expect even greater efforts from the farmers for
increase in food production. As for the farmers' train-
ing institutes which were established in all rural regions,
now we are planning to allow the entry of women and girls
into them. The submission of rice by farmers to the
Government granaries in the last fiscal year was extremely
favorable, reaching 102,000,000 bushels".
Yazo Kokitsu, chief of the national school bureau of
the Education Ministry, said: "Since more and more women
are ontering various fields of employment, we are planning
to improve educational facilities for young women. It was
only recently that we established the young women's train-
ing sohools while the attendance peroentage for the young
men's training schools now average 95 peroent throughout
the nation and 99 percent in rural distriots".
A representative of the Board of Information said:
Moral training is necessary to develop steady nerves for
winning the war".
The heat of the mid-summer which visited the metropolis
lately was surpassed by the fervor of the members as each
vied to get his opinion heard in the presence of his com-
rades and Government leaders. Thus the council's confer-
enee is headed for the last day's meeting today. (Domei in
knglish).
10. control Over Produetion and Consumption of
Potatoes.
Tokyo, July 16.- So that there may be an epochal
increase in production of potatoes, which is included in
the

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.99)
-9-
the Government's plans for increasing food production,
and in order to ensure the satisfactory cultivation of
good potatoes..., the Cabinet meeting on July 16 decided
upon the structure for the control of potatoes and the
prices thereof. The outline of this resolution, as
published by the Board of Information, is as follows:
(1) In the plan for food requirements, the accumulation
of edible potatoes must be ensured. In the enforcement
of the plan for increasing production, potatoes for
planting and potatoes to be used as raw material in
principal industries shall all be controlled by the
Government. Satisfactory shipments and simplictty and
autonomy in the people's food must be accomplished;
(2) The Government will fix the allotment of accumula-
tion for the local governments which, in order to accept
responsibility, will in turn fix the allctments of
accumulation for the farmers' unions of cities, towns
and villages in accordance with the amounts produced...;
(3) The sales of the ac umulated potatoes will be under-
taken by the various potato (control?) companies, and
(4) Prices for edible potatoes will be fixed later.
(Domei in Japanese).
11. Fixed Prices for Tin Reduced by 48 Percent.
Tokyo, July 17.- The Ministry of Commerce and
Industry hes decided to reduce the selline prices of tin
and has ordered the Japan Metals Supply Control Company
(the national metal control organ of Japan) to effeot
the price reductions as from today. The reduced prices
(in yen per lo0 pounds) are as follow: lst grade tin -
Yen 430; 2nd grade tin - Yen 410, and 3rd grade tin -
Yen 310. The above prices show a reduction of 48 per-
cent as compared with the previous selling prices, which
were fixed one month after the outbreak of the Greater
East Asia War on the basis of the fact that 40 percent
of Japan's tin requirements had to be secured from Penang
and other places in Malaya. This was why the price of
Yen 830 per l00 pounds of first grade tin was fixed.
Now that all the South Seas regions, which produce
67 peroent of the world's total tin production, are
completely under the domination of Japanese forces, the
reductiou of prices is only a natural result. (Domei
in Japanese).
12. Mergere of Japanese Shipping Companies.
Tokyo, July 17.- In line with the Governmont's new
shipping operation polioy, plans are now underway for two
mergers of shipping companies, according to the Nippon
Sangyo. It said that the Osaka Shosen Kaisha is planning
to merge with Knonsai (Kokusai or Kwensai?) Kisen Kaisha
and Nihon Kisen Kaisha while the Mitsui Steamship Company
will merge with the Shimatani Kisen Kaisha. These mergers
are said to be the first to be effected in the new Govern-
ment shipping adjustment. (Domei in English).
13. Positive Efforts to Inorease Production of Fibers.
Tokyo, July 18.- The South Seas regions are in
possession or all material resources indispensable to life.
Tho

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.99)
-10-
The fibers for making quilts and clothes are one of them.
As a result of the Greater East Asia War, plans for
inoreasing production of cotton and ramie are forging
ahead in the southern regions now under Japanese domina-
tion.
Cotton: On the basis of the Greater East Asia
cotton supply structure decided unon in April, 1942, a
five-year plan for increasing production is being pushed
in the Philippines and Burma. In addition, Java, Sumatra
and the Celebes constitute a wing for this five-year plan.
Production is also being encouraged in Borneo, Indochina
and Thailand. At the end of the five-year plan, in
addition to attaining local self-suprort and self-suffi-
ciency, these regions may supnly large quantities to
Japan. During the first year (this year) of the plan,
the work is in its experimental stage in which unfavora-
ble conditions must be overcome and the results may not
come out as expected. In the Philippines, manufacture
of cotton goods has already been started with locally
produced cotton to meet local requirements. In the
experimental stage of the plan in this year, it is neces-
sary to select seeds and improve technique. It is believed
that there will be no more difficulties next year.
Ramie and Jute: These are intended to make up
the insufriciency in cotton. In the various localities,
ramie is being mixed with cotton for weaving clothing
materials. The greatest ramie plantings are in Burma,
the Philippines, south Sumatra and the coastal rogions
of east Sumatra. Ramie has been widely planted in the...
(deleted)... part of Burma. Plantations on a large
seèle may similarly be made in the Philippines. The
tea and coffee plantation areas of south Sumatra and the
Sumatra East Coast may be utilized for planting ramie.
In Java, it is planned to use vegetable farms for this
purpose. The planting of ramie in Celebes is a new venture,
which is noteworthy in the light of increasing fighting
strength. Jute production is also being furthered in all
places in the South Seas. In Burma, the first-year plan
for increasing production is being carried out. In the
Philippines and Java a five-year plan for inoreasing
production is being established. Experts and seeds are
being sent from Formosa to Burma.
New Fiber: Manila ramie is a special or exolusive
product of the Philippines. It was discovered that this
couldbe used as a material for making silk. Recently, it
has been used for making quilts and clothes. In addition,
Manila ramie may be used for making roreign clothes. In
the northeastern part of the Philippines, jute has been
produced abundantly. The area planted shows an increase
of 200 percent as compared with last year. The future is
promising. (Domei in Japanese).
14. Rolling Stoek Produetion Increase Plan Approved.
Tokyo, July 20.- An epochal expansion produetiom
of rolling stock is expeoted as the result of the new
rolling stook preduetion increase plan whioh was formally
approved

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.98)
-11-
approved by the Government at today's Cabinet conferonce.
The new production plan, whioh was drafted on the basis
of provisions of the General Mobilization Law, calls for
priority distribution of vital materials as well as labor
to factories manufacturing rolling stock. It is revealed
that the plan also provides for placing many rolling
stock factories under the direct supervision of the
Ministry of Railways. (Domei in English).
Tokyo, July 20.- In the regular Cabinet meeting on
July 20 the bill for ensuring increased production of
railway rolling stock was discussed. After Lieut. Gen.
Suzuki, chief of the Planning Board, explained the details
of the bill, it was passed. The guiding principles of
this bill, as published by the Board of Information, are
as follow: In order to ensure the planned production of
railway rolling stock, there will be uniformity between
land transport and the control over production of rolling
stock. The following measures will be taken: (1) On the
basis of the National General Mobilization Act it has
been definitely established that it will be the responsi-
bility of the Minister of Railways to increase the produc-
tion of rolling stock; (2) In order fully to manifest
the manufacturing capacity for rolling stock, there will
be mixed operation of the manufacturing plants to be
directly controlled by the Ministry of Railways; (3) The
measures relating to production of rolling stock will bo
the same as for the five basic industries, and (4) War-
time regulations pertaining to control of rolling stock
will be thoroughly enforced. (Domei in Japanese).
15. Report on Rice Crops in Japan, Korea and Formose.
Tokyo, July 20.- The plan for ensuring sufficient
food will be consummated in the next fisoal year, when
Japan will abandon its reliance on imported rice. In
the present fiscal year, the growth of rice is promising.
Up to July 19, excepting a part of special areas, the
planting of rice in lo0 percent of Japan's rice fields
had been completed. It is estimated that in Chosen, up
to July 15, the total of 92.3 percent of the rice fields
had been planted. As compared with 79 percent during the
corresponding period last year, this shows an inorease
of 13.3 percent. Should there be timely rains hereafter
the plantings will be further enlarged. According to
the most conservative estimate, on the basis of 92.3
peroent plantings, 21,000,000 piculs of rice will be
harvested in the irrigated and dry fields as compared
with 15,000,000 piculs actually harvested last year. The
one-season rice plantings in Formosa will probably yield
a harvest of 3,800,000 piouls, which will be slightly
below the figure of 3,938,000 piculs actually harvested
last year. Judging from all these reports, rice production
for the present year will be greater than in l942. In
case of favorable climatio conditions, the crops of the
coming autumn will be satisfaotory. (Domei in Japanese).
16. Discovery of New Oil Filtering Process for Motor
10410100.
Tokyo, July 21.- For the discovery of a new rilter-
ing proeess, Colonel Soichi Sugitani of the imperial army
was comferred with the degree of deetor of engimeering
by

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
-12-
by the Education Ministry. His achievement was ac-
complished during the time he was busy as instructor
of the army mechanical equipment school and it is
believed it will contribute greatly to the adaptation
of motor vehicels to battlefields peculiar to regions
where Japanese forces are now fighting. Breakdowns
generally have been ascribed to engine trouble, little
attention being paid to topographical and climatic
differences. Sugitani, after experiments, reached the
conclusion that the real reason for the trouble was
not in the engine but due to the fact that oil absorbs
dust and dirt. with this basic idea, he started work
on an air purifier and filtering process for lubricat-
ing oil. His work was tentatively completed in 1939 when
the newly discovered method in book form was published
by the army tank school. He elaborated the thesis and
it was bubmitted to the Kyoto Imperial University where
he was formerly enrolled as a military student. The
thesis was apnroved by the university and he was granted
the degree on the merits of his thesis. (Domei in English).
17. Two Small Ships Donated to Jananese Army.
Tokyo, July 2l.- Greatly impressed by the decisive
naval battles now being fought between Japanese and Ameri-
can forces in the south Pacific area, Bennosuke Omigishi,
proprietor of the Daishin Company in Osaka donated his
two ships to the War Ministry to be used as army trans-
ports.  The donated ships included the Urajimo Maru,
904 tons, and Shinse1 Maru, 312 tons. This was the first
donation of ships made to the army since the outbreak of
the China affair. The War Ministry authorities, with
great appreciation, accepted the donation. (Domei in
English).
18. Times for News Broadoasts to Southern Areas
Announeed.
Tokyo, July 24.- The news schedule to the southern
regions by the Broadoasting Corporation of Japan, effective
from August 1, follows the radiocasts commeneing at 2l:30
and closing at 23:00, all Tokyo time with callings JZJ,
while JRAk will go on the air at 22:0o Tokyo time.
News in Tagalog will start at 21:30, news in Malay 21:45,
news in Burmese 23:00, news in Tha1 22:00, news in French
22:30 and news in Japanese 23:20, al1 Tokyo time. (Dome1
in English).
19. Equipment from Closed Gold Mines to be Used.
Tokyo, July 26.- Reorientation for war production
of equipment, materials and other facilities of practically
80 peroent or idle gold mines as well as gold mines to be
olosed, will be completed by the end of August, while the
reorientation of the remaining 20 pereeat will be completed
in September, due to concerted efforts of the Commeree and
Industry Ministey, according to the Nippen Sangre. The
journal reported that full agreement had been reaehed
between

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
-13-
between the mine owners and the Commerce and Industry
mines control association regarding the disposal and
appraisal of equipment, materials and other facilities
of idle gold mines to be regimented for war production,
and the actual transfer to war production or scrapping
of equipment of these gold mines will commence early in
August. (Domei in English).
20. Large Veins of Chrome Ore Said Discovered
In Hokkaido.
Tokyo, July 28.- Large new veins of high grade
chrome ore were discovered in the Sarugun district,
Hokkaido, by a field party which is carrying out ex-
plorations in Hokkaido and northern Japan, the man-
ganese and chrome ore belts, according to reports
received by the head office of the Teikoku Mine Develop-
ment Company and the Teikoku Manganese Mining Company,
reported the Nippon Sangyo. They said that the metal
content of the new ore veins is found to average more
than 50 percent. Anticipating an increased chrome ore
output, the Teikoku Manganese Mining Company immediately
began to draft plans for exploiting the new veins and
guaranteed supply of produetion of... (omission)... for
working the discoveries. The company is exerting efforts
to top the chrome production for the second quarter through
output from the new mines as well as old mines which are
still being worked. (Domei in English).
21. Prospects for Production of Strategic Metals
Said Good.
Tokyo, July 28.- Despite the fact that the pro-
duction goals for the first quarter of the current fiscal
year for lead, copper, zinc and other vital ores needed
for the prosecution of war are much higher than in the
corresponding period last year, the actual output of
these mettalic ores far surpassed the scheduled pro-
duction rate, according to an announcement of the mining
control association. The prospects for the se∞ nd quarter
are even more encouraging as the constructing of various
additional produotion facilities such as smelting works
are well on the way to completion. Moreover, various
•quipment from defunct gold mines will be made available
for diversion, the announcement disclosed, adding that an
abundant labor supply was also assured. (Domei in English).
22. Apr1l-June Coal Output Exceeded Goal by 10 Peroent.
Pokyo, July 28.- The coal mines throughout the
country have been mobilized to increase production in
order to meet the requirements of the country. According
to recent investigations instituted by the Coal Control
Association, production for the period from April to June
of this year exceeded the goal set by more than l0 percent.
(Domei in Japanese).
23. Castor Beans to be Donated to War Ministry.
Tokyo, July 28.- Last year the Imperial Rule
Assistance Association, with the assistanee of the
veterans' associations and imperial agricultural associa-
tions, launched a nation-wide campaign to plant castor
beans

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-14-
beans for manufacture of lubricants for airplane use.
Good harvests have been witnessed in all places and
they exceed the goal set. Total harvests in all parts
of the nation are estimated at 600 tons, from which
480 tons of lubricants may be extracted. Three officers
of the Imperial Rule Assistance Association called on
the War Ministry on July 28 to arrange for the procedure
of offering this product. (Domei in Japanese).
24. Bauxite Said Discovered in Japan Proper.
Tokyo, July 29.- The light metals control
association despatched a group of mining engineers to
Sakaide city in Kagawa, Shikoku, to conduct an extensive
survey of deposits of bauxite recently discovered there.
The alumina content of the newly discovered bauxite
averages more than 40 percent. (Domei in English).
25. Increased Production of Magnesium Desired in
Japan.
Tokyo, July 29.- In view of the imnortance of
magnesium in the manufacture of vital war munitions such
as incendiary bombs, the Commerce and Industry Ministry
has established a magnesium chloride production increase
cooperative association to promote production of basic
materials for the manufacture of magnesium including
magnesium salts. The new body will extend encouragement
to the producers as well as promote cooperation in effect-
ing the increased production of this important war material.
(Domei in English).
26. More Rubber Goods Available in Japan.
Tokyo, July 30.- As a result of the constant
flow of rubber into the country from the southern
regions, rubber goods such as raincoats, ice bags, bags
for toilet articles and other articles will soon be
placed on sale throughout Japan. Some 500 items of
rubber goods which will be placed on the market will be
of better quality and the Commerce and Industry Ministry
authorities are conferring with heads of the Japan rubber
cloth manufacturing industry league to establish now
fixed prices which will reduce prices by 10 to 15 peroent.
(Domei in English).
MANCHURIA
27. Increased Agricultural Production Discussed
at Meeting.
Hsinking, July 2.- The increased agricultural
production in Manchoukuo was discussed today at a round
table conference held by the Manchou charter of the East
Asia Round Table Federation at the Yamato Hotel. The
meeting was attended by 80 permons, inoluding Hiroya
Ino, former Japanese Agriculture and Forestry Minister
who arrived here early this morning. (Domei in English).
28.

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-15-
28. Establishment of New Agricultural Developmont Bank.
Hsinking, July 7.- A preparatory committee for
the establishment or the Manchoukuo agricultural develop-
ment bank under the chairmanshin of Tsuichi Yokoyama,
chief of the finance bureau, met for the first time this
morning... to discuss plans for the bank's establishment.
It can be recalled that, with the smooth flow of funds to
the nation's agricultural enterprises, the National
Council at an ordinary session passed a bill proposing
the creation of an agrioultural bank on June 30 with
ratification of the bill by ordinary session of the
Privy Council scheduled for tomorrow. The government is
rushing plans to open the bank for business by August 1.
(Domei in English).
29. Construction of Huanjen Hydroelectric Power Plant.
Hsinking, July 9.- Construction work at the
Huanjen hydroelectric power plant on the Hu River,
Fengtien province, is progressing smoothly. The completion
of a temporary dam...as well as negotiations for the
purchase of the reservoir area... Work on concrete enforce-
ment is expected to commence this coming autumn. (Domei
in English).
30. Collaboration of Jananese Industrial Companios
to be Sought.
Hsinking, July 15.- Collaboration of poworful
Japanese industrial companies will be sought to an
increasing extent in the future by the Manchuria Industrial
Development Corporation for the rapid development of the
light alloy, special steel and tar industries in !Hanchou-
kuo, Tatsunosuke Takasaki, president of the corporation,
disclosed in a press interview yesterday. He said that
the aluminum industry at Fushun and Antung is rapidly
developing and that the corporation is planning to industri-
alize its duralumin industry. For the realization of
the objootive, the Manchuria Light Metals Company will
organize the Duralumin Production Company through technical
collaboration with the Japanese metal production companies
1noluding the Sumitomo and Furukawa interests as well as
the Kobe Airplane Manufacturing Company. Meanwhile, in
order to meet demands for special steel in Manchoukuo,
the Penhsihu Iron and Colliery Company and the Tungjingtao
Development Company and others are being encouraged to
collaborate with the Japanese industrial companies,
Takasaki said. Light alloy and special steel production
industries depending on electrodes which can be obtained
from tar which is produced as a by-product by the Showa
Steel Works and the Penhsihu Iron and Colliery Company
and measures will be used to encourage tar manufacturing
by these companies. The corporation is now conducting
negotiations with the Nippon Kasei Industrial Company
as well as with the Mitsubishi and Mitsui interests for
technical collaboration. (Domei in English).
31. Inoreased Production of Fluorspar at Wolungohuan.
Hsinking, July 16.- Further bolstering the supply
of cardinal war materiels, the fluorspar produetion at
Wolungohuan

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Wolungchuan will be increased on a large scale, according
to a recent decision by the Manchoukuo government. The
new production increase plan will be undertaken by the
Manchoukuo Mining Company which recently purohased the
Wolungchuan mine from the Showa Steel Works, Ltd., at
the suggestion of the government. According to the
present plan, a new dressing mill will be erected at
Wolungohuan to meet the demand for increased production
of fluorspar by utilizing idle machinery whioh originally
was intended for gold mining. Facilities of the new
dressing plant, scheduled to be completed in June, 1944,
will have a monthly capacity of treating several thousand
tons of fluorspar. (Domei in English).
32. Predicts that Crops in Manchuria will be Above
Average.
Hsinking, July 24.- Pokuzo Takebe, director of
the general affairs board of Manchoukuo, in a regular
press conference, forecast that the yield of crops this
year in Manchoukuo will be more favorable than the average
yearly production. He attributed the favorable yield to
the zeal and enthusiasm of farmers in the country in
cooperating with the government farm production increase
drive and also to favorable weather in many parts of the
country. He concluded the government will concentrate
its utmost efforts to guarantee the smooth collection and
distribution of farm products. (Domei in English).
Hsinking, July 24.- Mr. Takebe, director of the
general affairs board, in his regular press conference
today, referred to recent agrioultural conditions in
Manchoukuo, which he said were better than last year.
He stated that, according to recent investigations, only
a part of the farm crops was damaged by hailstones, flood
and locusts. He said also that a part of the irrigated
fields had insufficient water but that the area in
question was negligible. Regarding the rice oron, he
said that it may be assured that the crop this year will
exceed that of i942. This he attributed to the enthusiastic
cooperation of the farmers in increasing production and the
widespread measures taken to increase production. (Domei
in Japanese).
33. Production of Iron, Non-Ferrous Motals and
Coal Discussed.
Hsinking, July 26.- lo disouss ways and means for
further inoreasing production of iron, non-ferrous metals
and coal as vital war materials, government experts and
leading industrialista in Manchoukuo met in a round table
conference at the premier's official residence here this
afternoon. Following an opening address by Rokuzo Takebe,
director of the general affairs board, on the progress of
production inorease programs since the start of this year,
explanations in detail were given by Tadeyuki Furumi,
vice direetor of the general affairs board. Later
opinions were freely exehanged by the conferees on various
problems surrounding produetion ineseese plans. (Domei in
English).
34.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
-17-
34. Manchuria Forestry Company Inoroases Capital.
Hsinking, July 28.- The Manchuria Forestry
Company has decided to inorease its capital from the
presont Yen 30,000,000 to Yen 50,000,000 in order to cope
with the government's increased production campaign as
well as to carry on smooth distribution. The government
will subscribe the total capital increase which will be
paid up at the end of next month. (Dome1 in English).
INNER MONGOLIA (MENGCHIANG)
35. Completion of Sangchien River Dam in Inner
Mongolia.
Tatung, July ll.- Agricultural production in
the Mengchiang (Inner Mongolia, district has increased
tenfold as a result of the recent completion of the
Sangohien river dam, the greatest irrigation project
over launched by the federated autonomous government of
Mongolia. The work on the construction of the titanic
irrigation systom including the dam, drainways, roads
and other accompanying facilities, was commenced two and
a half years ago with an outlay of Yen 30,000,000. (Domei
in English).
Tatung, July 12.- The construction of the Shangkan
River dam was started in September 194l and has now been
completed. This is very beneficial for the plan to increase
production in Mengchiang. The first irrigation area of
the Shangkan River includes Shanyin, Sohsien, Yinghsien,
Hwaijen and Tatung. The appropriation for conversanoy
work 1s approximately $30,000,000. The low lands will
be cultivated as rice fields. It is certainly an engineer-
ing feat. Upon completion of the conservancy work in the
first irrigation area, the annual production of kaoliang,
corn, wheat, soy beans and potatoes will be increased by
10 times. The plan for immigration to this fertile land
has also been comploted. (Domei in Japanese).
36. Industrial Developments in Mengchiang.
Kalgan, July 27.- The fedorated autonomous
government of Mongolia attained commendable results in
executing its policy and consolidating its war time
economy as exemplified in the soundness of the govern-
ment's financial devebpment and control of industry,
increased farm crops and healthy currency situation.
On July 12 the government published a general account
supplementary budget whioh totalled Yen 10,000,000.
Instead of floating bonds, the government obtained
additional revenue to meet the spending program by
advancing tax rates and using surplus funds brought
forward from the previous fiseal year. This fact in
itself extolls the soundness of the financial policy
of the government. With the approval of the additional
budget of 1943, the total budget under the general
account reaohed Yen 93,600,000.
Meanwhile, rehabilitation work on the Lungyen
iron mine, whioh was damaged by flood toward the end of
Juno,

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
June, was completed and the mine is now oporating.
Similarly, through the efforts of interested parties,
a small sized smelting furnace was installed and the
blowing in took place yesterday. In the meantime the
diversification of business operation of the Tatung
colliery has taken shape with the promise of early
launching of construction of experimental plants for
the manufacture of iron, coke, coal tar and dyestuffs.
To expedite the control of light industries, the
government promulgated economic regulations organizing
six guilds which will have control over the production
of tanned leather, leather goods, woolen goods, and
articles made of animal bones, candaès, as well as
processed animal gut. Well informed quarters forecast
that there is at least a 20 percent increase in crops
over the average yearly yield, which is expected to be
reflected in the first official crop estimate on
August 1. As to the monetary situation, a healthy
economic expansion of Mengchiang leads to the conslusion
that there is ample room for further exnansion of currency
circulation. There is no sign of vicious inflation.
However, the government is acting on the policy of sound
finance and is striving to withdraw notes from ciroulation
and preparing to issue an order to that effect. Another
aspect of Mengohiang's financial strength was revealed in
the wholesale prices of Kalgan which in early June showed
a drop of two percent on the average. (Domei in English).
OCCUPIED NORTH CHINA
37. Flood Prevention Work in North China.
Poiping, July l.- The North China Political
Affairs Commission at a recent meeting here decided to
study ways and means for preventing flood damage in
north China. The new committee will be headed by Chu
Sen, chairman of the North China Political Affairs
Commission. Under its supervision, local flood prevention
committees will be established at Peiping, Tientsin,
Paoting, Shihmen, Taiyuan, Kaifeng and Tsinan to be
assisted by the Japanese army as well as other Japanese
and Chinese officials. (Domei in English).
38. Report on North China Developmont Company.
Tokyo, July l.- Following are the essential points
of a report made by the managing director of the North
China Development Company at a regular general meeting of
that company held at Tokyo on June 30:
1. Since the outbreak of the Greater East Asia War
to date very satisfactory results have been obtained in
accelerating the development of resources in north Chine,
both above and under ground, so as to increase production
and exports to Japan. North Chine is especially rich
in coal whioh is the basic strategic material, the deposits
being about 17 million (billion?) tons. Its quality and
easy accessability for mining cannot be found elsewhere.
Produotion has therefore exeeeded the quantity projected.
2. In eastern Hopei provinee and in Shantung province
there is an inexhaustible deposit of alumina shale which
1

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
-19-
is the indispensable material for the production of
alumina and fire bricks. Steady development is being
made of this product. The two salt fields at Chamglu
(Hopei) and in Shantung are the largest producers of
salt in the entire Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere. The results of the 1942-43 fiscal year greatly
exceeded the goal. The amount of salt produced has been
sufficient to rill the export quotas to Japan and to
increase the amount to be allocated to the industries
of Greater East Asia. Plans for increasing the pro-
duction of cotton, which is one of the most important
strategic materials, are also being put into execution.
It is also anticipated that much progress will be made
in the organization of the structures for the production,
distribution and marketing of this product.
3. In Lungyen, Kinlingchen and other regions there
are rich deposits of iron ore. Steps have steadily been
taken to develop these mines in order to cope with the
increased local roquirements and shipments to other
areas. Large scale iron production plans are being put
through with the establishment of the North china Iron
Company. At the same time, small scale blast furnaces
are boing installed in various places in north China.
Some of those have already begun operations. Unon the
completion of these plans, expected in the near future,
an immense supply of steel and iron can be assured.
4. The future trend of the north China economic
situation will be the expansion in production of raw
materials and the undortaking of manufacturing in the
producing areas as much as possible in order to save
transportation facilities. For the realization of the
above, various measures are beins devised.
The amount of rainfall this year has been sufficient,
thereby promising bumper crops. It is expected that the
anxiety over food supplies will be eliminated. The
commodity price situation has been gradually improved
owing to adequate measures adopted by the authorities
concerned. In short, north China is steadily carrying
out its mission of serving as a depot (?) in the Greater
East Asia War. (Domei in Japanese).
39. Reports of Drought in North Chine.
Nanking, July 4.- Heavy damage has been caused
in north China by a severe drought since spring this year.
Generous contributions have been donated by all circles
in this municipality for the relief of sufferers in
north China. (Report in Chinese by Nanking's Central
News Agency).
Taichow, Kiangsu, July 4.- South Honan and
west Shantung in north China have had scanty rainfall
since last spring. The damage caused is heavy. A north
China emergenoy relief commission is being organized by
the various ciroles of this haien. (Report in Chinese
by Nanking's Central News Agonoy).
40.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
-20-
40. Postal Service Throughout China Maintained.
Fukuoka, July 10.- Extraordinary things do
often happen in this world, in China particularly, for
despite hostilities fiercely raging between the National
Government (Nanking regime) army and Chungking forces,
normal postal service is still maintained all over
China as though nothing is happening, reported Matsujiro
Nakamura, vice chief of the post and telegraph office of
north China, upon his arrival from Peiping. The exohange
of mail bags carried out at certain points along the
Yellow River between the Nanking and Chungking postal
officials is an open secret, Nakamura said. War or no
war, the Chinese are Chinese and there is no sense in
interfering in the internal postal service which would go
on despite any form of obstruction. Late last year the
Chungking postal authorities were hard pressed by financial
deficits and ap"roached the Nanking postal authorities
proposing a raise in postal rates. Nakamura stated that
this was really going too far and the Nanking authorities
just ignored the Chungking proposal. He described the
whole episode as the eighth wonder of modern China and
typical of Chinese audacity. (Domei in English).
41. Prospects Said Bright for Bumper Crops in North
China.
Peiping, July 10.- Prospects are bright for
bumper crops in principal farm products in north China
this year, Wang Keh-min, chairman of the North China
Political Affairs Commission, said in a statement in
his concurrent capacity as chairman of the North China
Commodities' Prices Adjustment Committee. He said the
promise of good harvests, coupled with falling commodity
prices, is destined to go a long way toward solving the
food problem for the civilian population. Production
increase of cardinal war materials has been in full
swing in north China, Wang declared, pointing out the
increasing importance of the area as an important supply
base in the war of Greater East Asia, particularly since
China's declaration of war against Britain and the
United States. He disclosed that there are three
important problems for north China in accomplishing its
mission, namely, rational adjustment of prices, develop-
ment of industrial resouroes and proper control of
commodities including foodstuffs. He prophesied that
undaunted efforts by subsidiary organs of the Commodities'
Prices Adjustment Committee with the support of Japan
as well as private industrial bodies in China would
solve the wartime food problem of horth Chine despite
any difficulty. (Domei in English).
42. Rigid Supervision Over Peiping Flour Stores.
Peiping, July ll.- Aotually there has been
no food shortage (here) in recent days. However,
because the milling of whest flour requires time, the
wheat flour shops cannot supply local demands. The
municipal authorities have now instituted rigid supervision
over all wheat flour shops. It is hoped that the civilians
will not listen to rumors. (Report in Chinese by Peiping's
Chunghua News Agenoy).
43.

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
-21-
43. Collection of 1943 Income Taxes in Peiping.
Peiping, July l4.- The consolidated tax office
of Poiping has already started to collect the income
taxes for l943. Tax payers are going enthusiastically
to the tax ofrice to make payment. Simultaneously, the
income tax office is sending its officers to conduct
investigations of all shops in order to maintain tax
revenues. (Report in Chinese by Peiping's Chunghua News
Agency).
44. Yellow River Dyke Extended by 180 Kilometers.
Peiping, July 16.- In 1940 the new Yellow River
dyke in Honan was only 160 kilometers in length. This
year the length was increased by 180 kilometers. The
erpenditures amounted only to a little over #3,000,000.
The completion of this gigantic engineering work at such
a small expenditure was attributed entirely to the co-
oporative Honanese. (Report in Chinese by Peiping's
Chunghua News Agency).
45. Establishment of North China Fiber Control Organ.
Peiping, July 19.- In order to contribute to
the proeooution of the war of East Asia, the North China
Fiber Control Association was established as a central
body to reorganize various existing organs engaged in the
production, control and distribution of cotton. The new
fiber control association, which will be under the
direct control of the North China Political Affairs
Council, aims at consolidating north China's position as
a cotton industrial center in East Asia by promoting...
(omission)...resources and improving the quality of cotton
and securing its smooth distribution. Under the leader-
ship of the fiber control association will be five import-
ant organs which are either reorganized old associations
or newly created ones, namely, the North China Cotton
Producing Promotion Company, North China Spinning Industry
Association, North China Fiber Company and the North China
Joint Enterprises Federation. The first organ will direct
efforts for the improvement of cotton seed and increase
of cotton produotion. The North China Spinning and
Weaving Industry Association will have strict control
of the cotton industry in order to effect rapid progress
both in technique and production. Expansion of acilities
will be made by bringing in idle machinery from :pan.
The North China riber Company will engage in buying and
distribution of specified fibrous goods while the North
China Fiber Association will regulate mainly the demand
and supply of cotton and other fibrous goods. A notable
feature of the new ootton industry structure in north
China is the introduotion of a bloc system among cotton
industrialists. Cotton producing areas will be divided
into four main districts, each of which will be sub-
divided into three bloos. The first division covers the
districts of Changte, Paoting and Linohing. The second
division comprises Shunte, Tientsin and Tehsien, while
the third ineludes Hantan, Peiping, and Changtien, and
the fourth covers Shihmen, Tangshan and Tsinan. (Domei
in English).
46.

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
-22-
46. Improved Wheat Seeds in North China.
Poiping, July 21.- The food problem of north
China has been mitigated ever since the enforcement of
the now food policy. The North China Political Council
has now decided to improve the seeds of wheat in order
to inorease production. Seeds of 20 kinds of improved
varieties will be planted in nurseries operated by
cooperatives. Farm guidance will also be strengthened.
(Report in Chinese by Peiping's Chunghua News Agency).
47. Satisfaction Expressed Over Salt Output at
Changlu.
Tientsin July 22.- It was discovered that
the salt produotion of Changlu fields may attain the
goal set and exceed the production of last year. The
salt fields of north China have been opened for two or
three years (?). This year, the expansion of equipment
for draining in salt water has been completed. Because
of favorable climatic conditions, production of industrial
salt for the decisive phase of the war has been assured.
(Domei in Javanese).
48. Self-Sufficiency 1n Foodstuffs in Shansi Province.
Taiyuan, July 22.- In order to attain self-
sufficiency in foodstuffs in Shansi province, the Japanese
military authorities with the full cooperation of the
provincial government are taking up all measures possible
for increasing food production. It is said that the need
to achieve self-sufficiency is due to the fact thet Shansi,
which is rich in mineral resources, is two-thirds covered
by mountains which make difricult the growing of foodstuffs
as well as bringing farm products from outside because of
the lack of transportation. Moreover, the increasing
urban population accompanied by industrial development
1s another reason why the province needs to raise enough
foodstuffs. Among the projeots considered by the authori-
ties to improve the food situation are the building of an
irrigation system and establishment of agricultural experi-
mental stations and buildings. Measures are also taken
to lighten the farmers' burdens by readjustment of the
land tax system. Furthermore, the authorities have reached
a decision to put into force measures based on planned
economy for the readjustment of the supnly and demand
relations. On January 4 last year the Japanese military
authorities introduced a low price policy and strengthened
the distribution and purchasing organ for cereals. The
salient points of the food polioy recently established
includes direot payments to farmers for cereals delivered
at the purohasing agenoy, enforcement of storing and
preservation of cereals. (Domei in English).
49. Amounts of Foods Rationed in Peiping.
Peiping, July 25.- Mayor Liu, in an effort to
coordinate with the food policy of north China, has
deoided

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
-23-
docided on a system of food rationing under which
4,000,000 oatties of wheat flour mixed with other
cereals will be supplied every five days. The price to
civilians will be FRB$l.l4 per cattie. (Report in Chinese
by Peiping's Chunghua News Agency).
50. North China Steamship Company to Build Wooden
3h1p8.
Tsingtao, July 25.- For the purpose of promoting
navigation in north China, the North China Steamship
Company has decided to build wooden ships to be propelled
by engines and other wooden ships on a large scale. The
project which is being pushed requires an increase in
capital by five to six times from the present FRB$3,700,000,
representing property. As a result of negotiations with
the parties concerned, an understanding has been reached.
The project will be realized in the latter part of this
year. The success of this project will greatly benefit
navigation activities in north China. (Report in Chinese
by Peiping's Chunghua News Agency).
OCCUPIED CENTRAL AND SOUTH CHINA
51. Three-Year Plan for Reclamation in Kiangsu
Province.
Nanking, July l.- Details of a three-year plan
for the reclamation of land and the development of water-
ways in northern Kiangsu and along the eastern shore of
Lake Tai in southern Kiangsu were disclosed in a statement
issued by Chiang Tso-hsuan, vice minister of construction
and concurrontly chief of the bureau of water transporta-
tion. Referring to a plan for the construotion of a now
canal in northern Kiangsu, he stated that the program
calls for not only the construction of a new north-south
canal but also the establishment of water gates and creeks
running in all direotions from the new... and perfection
of irrigation and drainage facilities. A section through
which the canal will be built is wasteland near the sea,
forming the border of the Fankung dyke. The plan, which
involves both reclamation of land and cotton planting,
calls for an expenditure of Yuan 300,000,000 for the
construction of a canal 130 kilometers long as the first
project. Upon completion of this project, 12,000 acres
of land will be made available for cultivation. With
regard to dredging and reclamation of the eastern shore
of Lake Tai, in view of the danger of the eastern part
of the lake becoming lowland if left as it is, losing
its character of being a reservoir, it is planned to
reclaim the land bordering the eastern part of the lake
by dredging the waterway in order to assure a permanent
water supply, thus making the lake serve as a reservoir.
Chiang expressed the hope that investments will be forth-
coming from various quarters due to large expenditures
required for the development of the two projects. (Domei
in English).
Reoonstruction

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
-24-
Roconstruction Projects by Nanking Regime.
Tokyo, July 9.- Parallel with its war efforts to
cooperate with Japan in prosecuting the Greater East
Asia War, the National Government of China (Nanking
regime) is carrying out large scale domestic reconstruc-
tion programs which include rebuilding the embankment
along the Yellow River, according to a Mainichi despatch
from Nanking. Reconstruction programs were approved by
the National Economic Council last month also inoludes
construotion of a new lsrge canal in the northern part
of Kiangsu province and other irrigation systems. The
journal said: (1) Under a three-year plan the first year
will be devoted to repairing the reinforcement of the
ombankment along the Grand Canal, while in the second
year construction of a large embankment on the Wei River
and also around Hungtsehu Lake, Kiangsu province, will
be undertaken. The reinforcement of the Yangtze embank-
ment will be launohed in the third year. The projects
involve annual expenditure of Yuan 20,000,000; (2) Upon
completion of the project the water level of Hungtsehu
Lake will be elevated, reclaiming approximately 7,000,000
acres of land. 270 kilometers of the new canal will be
constructed in northern Kiangsu province while 7,000
square kilometers of land will be converted into cotton
producing areas. The project will cost 300,0c0,000 yuan;
(3) With the estimate of 150,000,000 yuan, the reclamation
of large swamp areas on the eastern bank of Lake Taihu,
Kiangsu province, will be un ertaken under another three-
year plan, regaining 45,000 acres of land. Simultaneously,
the plan envisages dredging the waterway from Lake Taihu
to Tienshan Lake and embankment construction along the
waterway to free regions from annual floods which here-
tofore swept the area; (4) Another project envisages
preventing the Wei River from overflowing due to destruc-
tion of its banks by retreating Chungking troops. It is
said that large canal locks will be constructed, and (5)
A plan has been launohed already to check the drought in
north China which is partly caused by the loss of water
due to the destruction of the Yellow River embankments.
The plan, besides completely repairing the Yellow River
embankments and restoring the river to its previous course,
also envisages the construction of a network of canals
by the North China Government (Nanking regime?), which
is also undertaking the construction of seven new high-
ways.
The despatch disclosed that the contemplated highways
include (1) the Nanking-Shanghai road which has special
economic significance; (2) the highway connecting Nanking
and Tsaowuchen in Chekiang province via Shaohsing is
regarded as significant for industrial development of the
regions; (3) the highway joining Nanking and Pengpu in
Anhwei province has high military as well as political
value; (4) the Shanghai-Kinteh road via Hangchow; (5)
the Nanking-Pahsien road via Wuhu; (6) the Pukow-Wopi road
via Wukiang, and (7) the Pukow-Weiyin road. (Domei in
Eng11sh).
Reclamation Work on Yangtze River Delta.
Osaka, July 19.- The National Government of China
(Manking regime) will commence reelamation work on the
dolta

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
-25-
delta zone of the Yangtze River toward the end of this
year, Chen Chun-hui, Minister of Construction, and head
of the vis'ting Chinese inspection party, declared today
enroute for home. Chen arrived here from Fushima in
Kyoto where the party inspected the huge reclamation
work which is now under way. By inspecting the recla-
mation work in Fushima, Chen was inspired concerning the
projected engineering work to reclaim the Yangtze delta.
The survey work on the reclamation work along the Yangtze,
Chen said, has already been started by Japanese engineering
experts on the eastern bank of the Taihu Lake. He greatly
admised the Jaranese industrialists who are bent on
increasing the national productivity by making all
possible improvement. The inspection party is scheduled
to leave here for Shimonoseki on July 20. (Domei in
English).
52. Taxation Policy of Nanking Regime Stated.
Nanking, July l.- Following are statements made
by the minister of finance on the taxation policy (of the
Nanking regime):
1. Customs Duties. Since the outbreak of the
Greater East Asie War revenues from import and export
duties have suffered a material setback. It is therefore
decided to make up the deficit through an increase in
the rates of transit duty. This duty will be levied in
accordance with the value of the goods instead of the
quantity. All articles will be subject to a duty 5
percent larger than at present. Excentions will be made
in the cases of soy beans and kaoliang for which the
duty will be reduced by 5 percent.
2. Consolidated Tax and Special Tax. With regard
to those luxuries and special articles in the group of
daily necessities, it is decided gradually to change the
system of taxation from the specific to ad valorem basis.
However, no drastic increase will be made in order to
avoid stimulating a corresponding rise in commodity
prices.
3. Salt Tax. Salt is not only a daily necessity
of the people but also a material needed by industries
and for military purposes. In recent years the revenue
from this tax has been on the increase due to increased
production of this commodity. Therefore no change will
be made in the rates of this tax.
4. Inoome Tax. The revenue from this tax shows
en inorease of lo0 peroent as compared with that collected
in 1940 when 1t was initiated. Further increases are
expected from the enforcement of population census in
various places. (Dome1 in Chinese).
53. Partial Revision or Kwangtung Customs Tariff Made.
Canton, July l.- The provincial government of
Kwangtung today announced a partial revision of the
Kwangtung customs tariff effective today. According to
the

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
-26-
the new revision, all specific duties in operation were
changed to ad valorem duties. The revised tariff
provides for the imposition or 2.5 percent ad valorem
duties on 16 commodities, which hitherto were subject
to specific duties, while 5 percent ad valorem duties
will be colleoted from other commodities of the "specific
duty" group under the old tarirf system. Upon enforce-
ment of the new tarifr the l00 percent special surtax
which was imposed by the old tarifr has been abolished.
It is understood that the present revision of the customs
tariff was made in view of the increasing discrepancy
between specific and ad valorem duties due to the recent
fluctuations of commodity prices. The 16 commodities
which are newly subjected to the 2.5 percent ad valorem
duty are as follow: peas and beans, kaoliang, Indian
corn, millet, bean oil, cotton seed oil, peanut oil,
rapeseed oil, sesame seed oil, peanuts, sesa e, horse-
beans, beancake, brown sugar, castor sugar (?), refined
sugar and sugar candy. (Domei in English).
54. Kwangtung Puppets to Purchase Foods.
Canton, July 2.- With the approval of the contral
government (Nanking regime), the Kwangtung provincial
government has decided to issue CRB$10C,Oc0,000 of short-
term treasury bonds commencing from July 1. The entire
amount of these treasury bonds has been bought up by the
Contral Resorve Bank. At the same time, the Kwangtung
provincial government has made a 1oan of CRB$140,000,000
from the said bank to serve as funde for purohasing foods.
On July 2, Mr. Wang Chung-chun, commissioner of finance
of Kwangtung, published a statement, the gist of which
follows: of these treasury notes to the total of
CRB100,000,000, CRB60,000,000 wil1 be appropriated as
funds for increasing production and CRB$40,000,000 will
be used for pacification purposes. Also the issue of
treasury notes will be ruled by necessity. Thus on
July 1 the first issue of CRB$5,000,000 was issued to
serve as funds for increasing production of foods, cotton,
coal and ships. All of these are essential to the com-
munity. As regards funds for the purchase of food, the
original estimate was CRB$100,000,000. However, after
the visit of Mr. Chou Fu-hai, minister of finance (of the
Nanking regime), it has been decided to make an additional
loan of CRB$40,000,000. These loans will be used for the
purchase of the first rice crop beginning from this month.
No worry need be entertained as to the people's food in
Kwangtung Province. (Souroe not stated: probably Domei in
Chinese).
55. Price of Rice at Yangohow, Kiangsu, Advanoing.
Yangohow, Kiangsu, July 3.- The price of rice at
Yangohow has been advanoing daily. This is due to the
drought situation. Steps are being taken by the Shanghai
and Chekiang authorities to keep down rice prices with
the object of maintaining the people's livelihood (Report
in Chinese by Nanking's Central News Agency).
56.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.99)
-27-
56. Visit of Jaranese Economic Mission to China.
Fukuoka, July 7.- Five members of the Japanese
Boonomic Mission to China arrived here by air this after-
noon on route to Shanghai. They are Masatsune Ogura,
former finance minister and head of the mission; Teruo
Akashi, chairman of the Teikoku Bank; Saburo Nango,
president of the Trade Control Association; Gengo Kodera,
president of the Dai Nippon Spinning Company, and Toshinori
Nakanishi, director of the Toa Economic Round Table Con-
forence. The mission is soheduled to confer with leading
economists and financiers of China during visits to
Nanking, Shanghai and Peiping and other leading cities
in China and exchange unbiased views regarding important
Sino-Jananese economic problems. (Domei in English).
Objectives of Japanese Mission Announced.
Shanghai, July 8.- The objectives of the present
first Japanese business men's economic mission to China
are to congratulate China on regaining a bright outlook
as a result of freedom from Anglo-American shackles of
the past l00 years through the recovery of the foreign
concessions and to exchange frank views with Chinese
officials and prominent business men in order to further
promote Sino-Japanese close cooperation in the fight
against foreign enemies. Though unprecedented in the
history of Sino-Japanese relations, it is a historical
inevitability and a natural trend in Greater East Asia.
From the nature of the present world war it is impossible
to construct a Co-Prosperity Sphere without complete
victory of war while the hanpiness of East Asiatio
peoples cannot be realized without the construction
of the Greater (East Asia) Co-Prosperity Sphere. Saying
that Sino-Japanese business men should cooperate in the
economic field, fully realizing the deen significance
of the present Sino-Japanese cooperation, the first
requisite in this connection, it was pointed out, is the
bringing about a unity of feeling and harmony between the
two which is the object of the present mission. (Domei
in English).
Statements Made by Members of Japanese Mission.
Nanking, July 13.- The Japanese economic inspoction
mission to China arrived here at 9 a.m. on July 12 from
Shanghai by train. Mr. Ogura, head of the mission, as
well as Mr. Akashi and Mr. Nango, in response to inquiries
made by reporters accompanying them on the train, made
statements explaining their opinions pertaining to the
existing important issues of China such as currency, finance
and commodity prices. The gist of the statement (presumably
made by Ogura but possibly a joint effort of the members
of the mission*CHB) is as follows: While they were at
Shanghai during the past few days they candidly exchanged
ideas with the concerned Chinese there. The y can now
understand the actual state of affairs of China. The
solution of the ourreney and price issues is now being
sought positively in Shanghai. Adequate measures and
plans must be adopted in certain spheres. On the besis
of the opinions expressed by the interested parties, they
w111

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
-28-
will discuss fully various questions in order to be of
help to the development of China's economy. China is a
country with a long history. Policies and measures
based on the recovery of Chinese racial characteristics
and maintenance of the Chinese way of life should there-
fore be adopted. Ever since Japan enforeed its new
policy vis-a-vis China, the Chinese economic field has
been stirred by great hopes and is now active in
directions indicated by these hopes. The realization
of plans will certainly be significant.
Akashi said in effect: China is in possession
of a colossal racial asset and labor for production.
If the racial asset could be induced to go to production,
it would be efficacious for the development of production
and maintenance of the value of currency. However, at
present the Chinese racial asset is not working in
concert with production, hence the continuation of un-
satisfactory economic conditions in China. This is
entirely different from Japan where asset and production
constitute one body both in appearance and in substance.
Thus, the attraction and utilization of the Chinese
racial asset is the most important issue of China today.
The gist of what Nango said is as follows: View-
ing contral China's position in the Greater East Asia
Co-Prosperity Sphere from a commercial standpoint, it is
a most important region. The promotion of trading between
central China and other parts of the Co-Prosperity Sphere
is the most urgent problem of today. When shipping is
limited in wartime, the various regions are liable to
develop local economy which is undesirable for the
development of the sphere. Thoughts must be focussed
on the Co-Prosperity Sphere as a whole. Under the total
plan, brisk trading of materials and resources is the
right procedure. for example, the cotton of central
China may be shipped to Japan; Japan's cotton cloth may
be shipped to Indochina, and Indochina's rice may be
shipped to central China. There should be logical trading
of daily necessities among all regions.
Kodera said in effect: For the prosperity of
China and Japan, it will be imperative for Japan positively
to assist China in increase of production. Regarding
spinning and weaving, besides positive efforts for the
increase of cotton production, the development of the
spinning and weaving industry will also be essential.
Thus, positive steps must be taken to transfer Japan's
spinning and weaving equipment to China so that the latter's
capital, labor, material and equipment may be actively
utilized. (Domei in Japanese).
Establishment of Price and Curreney Poliee
AdvognteA.
Nanking, July l4.- The establishment of a far-
seeing priee and eurreney poliey in Chima under the complete
control of the eentral government is ome of the mest import-
ant esonemie questiems of China today, stated Masaji
Toshiäa, direeter ef the Mitsukishi Bank and member of
the visiting Japemese eeomemlé mission here in a special
pross

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
press interview this afternoon. He said that prices of
commodities can best be regulated by proper control of
currency in relation to general economic fields as well
as the introduction of close coordination among them.
Toshida asserted that at present the Central Reserve
Bank notes were completaly controlled curreney, the
value of whioh is being maintained by the cooperation
of the gevermment and the people. Although unable to
cite statistics regarding the economic development of
the southern regions for obvious reasons, he expressed
optimism regarding prospects. With vast material
resources in the south now under its complete control,
Janan's fighting strength is being increased to the
point where Japan alone can fight this war to a success-
ful consummation. He added, however, that Japan needs
the full cooperation of China, particularly in the
economic field, for the successful construction of the
Co-Prosperity Sphere.
Toshinori Nakanishi, director of the East Asia
Economic Society and a member of the same mission,
emphasized that economic collaboration of Japan and China
was not only desirable for the two countries but for the
establishment of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere. Anglo-American interference in East Asia,
which presented many obstacles in Sino-Japanese co-
operation, is no longer existant, he said. Thus the
smooth realization of Sino-Japanese cooperation is
completely assured. Recalling the progress of rehabili-
tation development in the southern regions, he said that
it can be stated briefly that the facilities whioh were
destroyed by the Anglo-Dutoh and American forces at
the outset of the war have now been fully restored to
prewar status... (Domei in English).
Mombers of Mission Interviewed by Chinese
Journalists.
Nan'ing, July 15.- Two members of the Japanese
economic inspection mission to China, Mr. Voshida,
member of the board of directors of the Mitsui Bussan
Kaisha, and Mr. Nakanishi, member of the standing com-
mittee of the East Asia Economic Conference, held an
economic conference here at 3 p.m. on July i4...with
Chinese newspapermen. They replied to questions raised
by the Chinese journalists in regard to various economic
problems of Chins today as well as Sino-Japanese co-
operation in the Greater East Asia War. The gist of these
discussions is as follows:
Inquiry: "As the members of your mission had
sincere discussions with Chinese financial leaders
while at Shanghai and are now paying a visit to Nanking,
what are your feelings and plans in regard to the actual
economic conditions of China?"
Yoshida replied: "I feel that the most important
and difficult problems in Chinese economy lie in the
currenoy problem and plans pertaining to commodity prices.
As far as materials and resourees are concerned, these,
according to the present state of affairs in China, are
not

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.99)
-30-
not so tremondous as we first imagined before we came
to China. As to the cause of mounting prices, we
attribute it to the currency issue rather than to
materials and resources. However, the credit of the
Central Resorve Bank notes is being matatained by the
cooperation between the government and the people.
Currency inflation in wartime is a naturel development.
With the concerted coordination between the government
and the people, the value of the currency can certainly
be maintained".
Inquiry: "What are your views as to the future
of Sino-Jananese economic cooperation in the Greater
East Asia War?"
Nakanishi replied: "As far as the theory of Sino-
Jananese economic cooperation in the Greater East Asia
War is concerned, the peoples of all the countries of the
Co-Prosperity Sphere must heln build the sphere. There
must be concerted coordination and the concent of responsi-
bility. Before the outbreak of the war China had to cope
with the influence of Britain and the United States.
Thus various difficulties existed in enforcing the policy
of Sino-Japanese economic cooperation. These difficulties
are now entirely removed. Viewed from the Chinese and
Japanese standpoints, no difficulty exists. We feel that
the people of all places should work in concort under one
concept in order to attain the common objective".
oshida said: "In the study of economic cooperation,
the concept of the oppositionists must be abandoned. Any
cooperation is only a part of the whole. In theory,
sufficient study must be made of the following: (1) How
important 1s Sino-Japanese cooperation? (2) What are the
ohstacles to Sino-Japanese cooperation? and (3) How to
share the responsibility of concerted efforts? The
meaning of 'group nations' as stated by Chairman Wang
(Wang Ching-wei) must be thoroughly analyzed and studied.
If Sino-Jananese cooperation is not carried out in accord-
ance with such a concept, China, after emerging as powerful
as Japan, will menace Japan. Also in the develonment of
spinning, weaving and other light industries, there will
arise questions of competition".
Inquiry: "What are the presont conditions of
developments in the South Seas regions?"
Yoshida replied: "Developments in the South
Seas regions cannot be explained by figures. In a word,
the present state of affairs is altogether optimistic.
As Japanese fighting strength is making rapid progress,
there is absolutely nothing which is impossible in the
development of the South Seas reglons. As to the future
of (our) fighting strength, it appears that a part of
your people is cherishing unnecessary worries. Japan
alone can seek for ultimate victory. However, for the
building of the Co-Prosperity Sphere, the cooperation
of China is essential".
Makanishi replied: "I wish to make a brief report
on the present conditions persaining te the developments
of the South Seas regions. Things
mozed by Britain

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
and the United States at the outset of the war have
been repaired. Production is showing increase as
compared to the prewar time. British and American
developments were confined only to their own interests
without the slightest regard to the interests of the
natives. This is not the case with Japan. Of those
things which were neglected by Britain and the United
States, an increase of production is now being sought.
Work is going ahead satisfactorily". (Domei in Japanese).
Objectives of Mission to China Said Attaihed.
Nanking, July 15.- Having obtained the objectives
of their recent visit to China, the Japanese businessmen's
economic mission headed by Masatsune Ogura left here
this morning for home via Shanghai. Particular signifi-
cance is attached by economic circles here to the mission's
visit inasmuch as it was made at a time when Janan's
new Chine policy was in the course of being put intc
effect. They said that the government and peonle of
China have extended a hearty welcome to the visit of the
Japanese oconomic mission as they consider the despatch
of the mission as a proof of sincerity and zeal on the
part of Janan for materialization of Sino-Jananese
economic collaboration on the basis of equality and
reciprocity. They continued to point out that the visit
of the mission has also given impetus to the people and
government of China to fulfill their share in strengthen-
ing the total war effort of the two nations. They de-
clared that the freouent meetings which the Japanese
mission held with such financial leaders as Tang Shou-
min and Wu Chen-hsiu at Shanghai and with the finance
minister, Chou Fu-hai at Nanking, commerce and industry
minister 'ei Ssu-ping, and foodstuffs minister Ku Pao-
heng, have produced a far reaching effect on the current
as well as future Sino-Jaranese economic collabobation.
Upon its return to Japan, these circles went on, the
ecohomic mission is expected to pass on to Jananese
economic circles the latest and valuable knowledge of
Chinese economy in function, which they gained through
various contacts with officiel as well as with private
vircles end inspections during their stay. They expressed
the belief that the information obtained by the mission
will help greatly in incorporating constructive plans
into Janan's new China nolicy end in strengthening even
more Sino-Jananese relations. They concluded that in
view of the success of the Jaranese economic mission,
which was despatched for the first time to China, China
is contemplating with much hope the desnatch of a similar
Chinese mission to Japan in the near future. (Domei in
Eng11sh).
57. "ovement of Rice from Soochow to Shanghai.
Nanking, July 8.- The Shanghai area joint food
society undortakes the purchase of rice for the Shanghai
area. Recently representatives were sent to Soochow and
other places in order to make purcliases. The first lot
of 150,000 bags has now already arrived in Shangha1.
(Report in Chinese by Nanking's entral News Agency).
58.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-32-
58. Establishment of Food Warehousing Administration.
Nanking, July 8.- The preparatory work for the
establishment of the central food warehousing administra-
tion has, in goneral, been completed. The organic law
therefore has been approved by the Executive Yuan (of
the Nanking regime). The organization will be established
formally within this month. (Report in Chinese by Nanking's
Central Nows Agency).
59. Commodity Price Arbitration Commission Reinstated.
Nanking, July 8.- In view of the sharp increases
in commodity prices on the market, the municinal govern-
ment has decided to reinstate the commodity price arbitra-
tion commission, which will hold its first meeting in the
municipal government office on the afternoon of July 9.
(Report in Chinese by Nanking's Central News Agency).
60. Night Navigation Allowed on Pearl River.
Canton, July 9.- To cope with the increasing
traffic in the Pearl River, night navigation will be
oponed to shipping companies from July 10, the Japanese
naval attache's office announced yesterday. It can be
recalled that navigation was limited to 22:00 hours from
April 10 this year. The announcement said that the
navigation area will consist of the main course of the
Pearl River from the Canton-Whampoa-Humen area to the
mouth of the river. Ships allowed to navigate include
ocean liners, vessels of the regular Canton-Macao line,
tug boats belonging to the Canton River Transportation
Association, Canton Warehousing Association and others
sanctioned by the naval at'ache's office. (Domei in
English).
61. Credit Agreement Between Two Puppet Banks.
Tokyo, July 10.- A credit agreemont between the
Central Reserve Bank of China and the Federal Reserve
Bank of China shortly will be signed, according to
Dr. Masutari Mmura, adviser to the Central Resorve Bank
of China, who returnod to Shanghai on July 7 from Tokyo
after consultation with the quarters concerned, the
Mainiohi reports from Shanghai. Kimura said that as a
result the banks will sign a formal agreement establish-
ing a mutuelacredit system. Settlement of the balance
will be made in Tokyo, for which the authorities conoorned
gave consent. The establishment of a credit system is
expsesed to expedite the movement of foodstuffs from
central China to north China, which in turn will enable
north China to inorease its important commodity supply
to central China and to Japan. (Domei in English).
62. Nanking Regime Sponsors Lottory to Absorb
Exeess Funds.
Shanghai, July 13.- The National Govermment of
China (Nanking regime) has decided to issue lottery
tickets in order to absorb excess purchasing pewer...
Lottery tiekets will be placed on sale commeneing
October 1 at intervals of two months. The first issue
w111

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
-33-
will be 5,000,000 yuan in value and will consist of
250,00 tickets at 20 yuan each. The first prize winner
will receive 1,000,000 yuan; second prize winner 200,000
yuan and third prize winner l00,000 yuan. Winners from
the fourth to thirteenth places will also receive prizes.
The total amount of the premiums w1ll reach 2,365,000
yuan. (Domei in English).
63. Sino-Japanese Oil and Food Committee Being
Formed.
Shanghai, July 13.- In one of the most decisive
steps for control of sup ly and demand of essential
foodstuffs and in line with government measures effectively
to prevent the rising price tendency, the establishment
of an oil and food committee jointly by Chinese and
Japanese merchants is being planned by the National
Commercial Control Association. It is understood that the
formation of this committee will round out an elaborate
lower structure of commercial control organization which
now has a most formidable apparatus...The joint Japan-
China Oil and Food Committee will be composed of prominent
Japanese and Chinese businessmen whose activities have
mainly been concerned with supplying Shanghai with essen-
tial foodstuffs. After its inauguration the committee
will take up the responsibility of controlling trade in
whet and other grains, sundry foodstuffs, seeds and other
matedals necessary for the manufacture of cooking and
other edible oils and a variety of other items concerned
with the foodstuffs industry. The present plans, it was
revealed, provide for the offices of a chairman and two
vice chairmen who will conduct the activities of the
committee under the supervision of the National Commercial
Control Association. Economic observers declared that the
ostablishment of the committee augurs well for the future
as a regular supply of edible and cooking oil which is
one of the most important foodstuff items will be availa-
ble to the Chinese population. (Domei in English).
64. Black Market for Cigarettes in Nanking.
Nanking, July 13.- The black market for cigarettes
in Nanking has disappeared. Recently, however, it was
discovered that some hawkers still tried to sell at prices
higher than the offieial prices. The municipal government
1s sending men to institute strict investigations. (Report
in Chinese by Nanking's Central News Agency).
65. Food Inspection Office to Combat Smuggling.
Soochow, July 13.- In order to prevent smuggling
of food, the ministry of food (of the Nanking regime)
has established an inspection office at Sooohow. Smuggl-
ing has been greatly reduced. (Report in Chinese by
Nanking's Central News Agency).
66. Japanese Donate Medical Supplies to Nanking Regime.
Nanking, July 15.- The imperial expeditionary
forees in China will donate medical supplies to the
National

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
-34-
National Government of China army in appreciation of
their cooperative effort in the fight for common
victory. The procedure of transfer of such supplies
was discussed between Japanese authorities and members
of the National Government's military council on July 10
and 14. Formally the donation represents a part of the
Japanese Government's loan of Yen 300,000,00c, but
actually it will be made without compensation to the
latter. Modical supplies will consist of approximately
500 items including stethescopes, thermometers, and
microscopes as well as several hundred pieces of veter-
inary medical equipment. (Domei in English).
67. Nanking Regime Has Deficit for First Half of 1943.
Nanking, July 15.- The budget of the National
Government of China (Nanking regime) for the focond half
of the 1943 fiscal year was apnroved by the Central
Political Council at its session today in the original
form as drafted by the ministry of finance. It is further
revealed that, simultaneously with the approval of the
second half (of 1943) budget, the council also decided
to appropriate revenue from customs tariffs totalling
Yuan 20,000,000 for covering a deficit amounting to
Yuan 20,000,000 in the budget for the first half of the
1943 fiscal year. (Domei in English).
68. Statoment on Nanking Regime's Wartime Economic
Policy.
Tokyo, July 15.- Commenting on China's wartime
economic pol:cy, Chou Fu-hai, finance minister and
concurrently president of the Central Reserve Bank of
China (Nanking regime), in an interview with Jananese
pressmen yesterday gave assurance that necessary measures
are being considered to meet increasing war expenditures
attending the expansion of army and other wartime facili-
ties, according to the Yomiuri-Hochi from Nanking. War
expenditure of the government was expanding since in-
creasingly large numbers of Chungking troops are joining
the government's peace movement. In order to cover any
possible financial difficulty resulting from the healthy
growth of the national government, necessary measures
are being prepared by the government. "Since its estab-
lishment", he said, "the national government has been
standing on a sound and solid basis".
Qesstioned on the problem of tax increases to
meet the mounting expenditures of a wartime budget, he
statedathat the government will follow a policy of not
affecting commodity prices by tax increases even if tax
inoreases become necessary. Land tax constitutes the
main source of revenue for provincial finance. The
government was contemplating a readjustment of the taxa-
tion system in order to increase revenues. However, he
gave assurance that the issuance of bonds to meet the
increasing wartime expenditures is not being considered
for the time being. Referring to the disposal of enemy
properties in China, which have been transferred to the
govermment, he said that the government plans to sell,
10a80

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
lease or entrust the management to companies designated
by the government. He said that positive encouragement
will be given to the participation of public investment
in companies which have been placed under the direct
control of the government. The government is preparing
to reopen the stook exchange in Shanghai as a means of
absorbing capital. In conclusion he referred to the
issuance of Central Reserve Bank notes and said that no
limit is being set but the government will be prudent...
in order to prevent vicious inflation. (Domei in English).
60. Part of Enemy Properties at Hankow Transferred.
Hankow, July 20.- Part of the enemy properties
in the Hankow district was formally transferred by Japan
to the National Government of Chine (Nanking regime) in
a ceromony held here todav. Consul General Tomio Takatsu
represented Japan at the function while Wang Chen-sheng,
speciel financial representative of the National Govern-
ment's finance ministry in Huneh, Hunan and Kiangsi
provinces, represented China. There were many other
prominent Jananese and Chinese officials and civilians
present. Sixty-seven items representing economic and
cultural facilities out of l2l itoms of enemy proporties
located in the Hankow and Wuchang area were transferred.
The remaining items of property will be transferred as
soon as investigations are connleted. of the items...
(omission)...and one joint American-British. The
property is classified into two automobile plants...
on freight...(omission)... one food manufacturing plant,
one printing plant, 12 buildings, seven items of landed
property and 43 schools, hospitals, public auditoriums
mission houses and other facilities. (Domei in English).
Hankow, July 20.- (A Domei report in Japaneso
carried the additional information that the 67 properties
included 39 British, 27 American and one joint Anglo-
Amorican concern. The classification according to kind
of property was given as follows: motor car establishments
two; packing plant one; foodstuffs factory one; printing
establishment one; buildings l2; establishments pertain-
ing to land administration seven, and cultural establish-
ments, including schools, hospitals and churches 43).
70. Retrocession of French Settlement in Shanghai.
Tokyo, July 21.- The Mainichi reported from
Nanking this afternoon that the formal retrocession of
the Frenoh Concession in Shanghai to the National Govern-
ment of China (Nanking regime) can be expected in the
nearest future as the basic understanding was reached
between the Chinese Foreign Minister, Chu Min-yi, and
French Ambassador Henri Cosme. The Japanese Ambassador,
Masayuki Tani, participated in the conference. The
formal agreement of the retrocession is expected to be
signed in a few days prior to the formal retrocession of
the Shanghai International Settlement to the government
which is scheduled on August 1. The Mainiehi predicted
that the relinquishmemt of Japanese extraterritorial
rights will begin with the transfer to the government of
tamation rights. The paper said that the formal relinquish-
memt of eztrality rights will be in the form of a new
treaty between Japan and Chine. (Dönei in English).
Nanking,

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-36-
Nanking, July 22.- The French-Chinese agree-
ment and mutual understanding concerning the retrocession
to China of the French Concession in Shanghai was duly
signed at the foreign office here by the French and
Chinese representatives...The French Concession is
scheduled to be returned to the National Government
(Nanking regime) on July 30 along with the International
Sottlement on August 1. (Domei in English).
71. Italy Gives Up Rights in International Sottloment.
Tokyo, July 23.- Following Japan's lead in doing
everything possible to restore full sovereignty to China,
Italy also showed its goodwill toward the National Govern-
ment of China (Nanking regime) when an agreement for the
retrocession of Italian rights in the Shanghai Inter-
national Settlement was signed this morning in Nanking.
(Domei in English).
72. Other European Countries Renounce Settlement
Rights.
Tokyo, July 24.- Closely following the steps
of Italy and France, Spain, Sweden, Denmark, Portugal
and Switzerland are expected to renounce their respective
rights in the Settlement by July 3l, according to the
Yomiuri-Hochi. The basic agreement has been reached
between the authorities of the five powers in China and
Chu Min-yi, foreign minister of the National Government
(Nanking regime), through recent multilateral negotiations
in Shanghai on the relinquishment of their terr:torial
rights. (Dome1 in English).
73. 24 More Factories to be Returned to Chinese
Owners.
Shanghai, July 24.- Jananese authorities here
will return formally 24 more factories which are under
the control of the Japanese foroes in central China to
their original owners at a ceremony this afternoon.
The total number of factories returned to Chinese
owners by the Japanese authorities total 130 leaving
only lo factories yet to be returned. (Domei in English).
Shanghai, July 24.- It was revealed that 24
Chinese industrial plants in contral China, which had
been under the control of the Japanese army since the
outbreak of the China Affair, were formally returned to
their original Chinese owners today at a ceremony held
here this afternoon. The latest transfer marks the
twelfth since the beginning of the China Affair. With
the return of today's 24 factories, 130 of the total
of l40 Chinese plants under Japanese military control in
central China have thus far been returned to their
original owners. It is understood that the balance will
be turned over to the Chinese in the near future. Spinning
mills, sulphurio acid and caustio soda plants, and the
only iron and steel mill in Shanghai, were ineluded in
the 24 plants reverting back to the Chinese today. (Domei
in English).
Shanghai,

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.98)
-37-
Shanghai, July 27.- Ten Chinese factories in
contral China still under control of the imperial
Japanese army in China will be returned today... As
the International Settlement in Shanghai will be
returned to the National Government (Nanking rogime) on
August 1, the Jananese army has decided to return the
remaining 10 factories to their original owners. The
ceremony for their return will be held tomorrow after-
noon. After their return the factories will be operated
by Chinese industrialists on their own resnonsibility.
Among the lo factories to be returned tomorrow are six
spinning and weaving mills, a power generating plant, a
ham-curing plant, a flour mill and an oil extracting
plant. (Domei in English).
74. Shanghai Chine se Stock Exchange to be Reopened.
Shanghai, July 25.- The outbreak of the Greater
East Asia War resulted in the closure of the Shanghai
Chinese stock exchange market. But in order to cope with
the new phase in the present situation, the market, with
its internal organization revised, will soon be opened.
The inauguration ceremony will be held on August 1.
Meanwhile, a genoral meeting of the stockholders was
called on July 24 in the Hongkong Bankers' Club here in
which a bill for increasing the canital from Yuan
1,200,000 to Yuan 20,000,c00 was apnroved. Members for
the board of directors were re-elected, rules and regu-
lations were revised, and Chang Wen-hui was elected to
be secretary general and 13 persons, including Wu Chen-
hsiu, were elected as secretaries. (Domei in Chine se).
75. Reorganization of Semi-Official Jananese
Companies.
Tokyo, July 26.- Kiku:iro Takashima, overnor
of the Central China Development Compeny, who returned
to Shanghai after consultation wi th the Tokyo govern-
ment, stated that, since the plan for readjustmont of
semi-governmental concerns in central China has been
completed, the transfer of some concerns to China will
be realized shortly, according to the Mainichi. It is
expected in this connection that the transfer of semi-
governmental concerns, coupled with the return to China
of concession rights by various nations, will facilitate
the execution of Janan's new China policy to China. The
governor said: "As regards future activities of the
Contral China Development Company, the governor, vice
governor and directors will all be stationed in China
hereafter to fulfill their appointed tasks. In Tokyo
an adviser will be stationed to maintain closer business
liaison. To that end the set-up of the ∞mpany will be
subjected to all out revision. Since the outline of
readjustment of semi-governmental concerns in Chim was
completed through consulting Sotaro Ishiwata (Highest
Japanese economio adviser to Nanking regime) ...(omission)
... (Domei in English).
76. Union Formed to Centralize All Japanese Trade
0reans.
Shanghai, July 26.- The Sino-Japanese trade
union was established on July (?). Its purpose is to
contralize

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-38-
centralize all Javanese trade organs in central China.
The organizing system and employment of men are still
under disoussion by the Jananese Embassy and other
circles concerned. The Japanese Consul Goneral in
Shanghai on July 24 issued legal permission for the
ostablishment of the union. Because the president of
the union has not yet been elected, it was decided that
the president of the general affairs bureau of the
Shanghai office of the Japanese Embassy will be the
acting president for the time being. (Domei in Chinese).
77. Canton Becoming Important Industrial Conter.
Tokyo, July 26.- Prospects are increasingly
evident that Canton is becoming a large and vitally
important industrial center, specializing in the manu-
facture of finished products from raw materials from the
southern regions, the Mainichi reported from Canton.
Reviewing the development of Canton in the light of
construction of the Co-Prospe rity Sphere and as a sequel
of Japan's new Chine policy, the Mainichi said that there
are mounting signs that Canton, with its neighbor Hong-
kong, has become a vital clearing center for finished
products. Reviewing the latest ecohomic developments in
Canton, the report pointed out as noteworthy the recent
establishment of the Jananese trude association in Canton,
including the Shonan trade association as well as the
raw rubber import association. Both of these organiza-
tions are playing a vital role in strengthening Canton's
economic position. It further pointed out that the
national commerce control association's plans to open a
branch office in Canton can be taken as an indication of
positive cooperation which will be given by the Canton
(Kwangtung?) provincial government and the National Govern-
ment (Nanking regime) to Janan. The paper reported that
Japanese as well as Chinese residents in Canton are fully
agreed in their determination to boost Canton's prosperity.
(Domei in English).
78. Nanking Organ Seeks to Trade with South Seas.
Nanking, July 26.- The national commercial
control assdciation, for the purpose of promoting trade
in commodities, is adopting appropriate economic and legal
measures to seek for trading in commodities with the
South Seas regions...(Chinese report by Nanking's Central
Nows Agenoy).
79. Black Market Price for Rice Reduced.
Nanking, July 2 .- In goneral, food for the
present fiscal year may meet requirements. The wheat
harvest for this year was quite good. Black market
prices for rice were reduced from CRB2,400 per picul
to CRB$1,900 per pioul. In solving the present food
question, emphasis is laid on the improvement of the
method of purohase. Pertinent guidance and cultivation
of farm land will be employed to increase food produotion.
(Report in Chinese by Nanking's Central News Agonoy).
80.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
-39-
80. Kwangtung Puppets Pass Bill for Control of
Resources.
Canton, July 26.- The second session of the
Kwangtung provincial administrative meeting was convened
today and passed the bill providing for control of re-
sources together with other bills. (Report in Chinese
by Nanking's Central News Agency).
81. Italy Will Return Tientsin Concession to Puppets.
Shanghai, July 26.- After the return of the
Intornational Settlement of Shanghai on August 1 to the
Chinese Government (Nanking regime) and the return of the
French Concossion in Shanghai on July 30, there will remain
only one concession in Chine, namely the Italian Concession
in Tientsin. As a result of repeated negotiations con-
ducted by foreign minister Chu Min-yi with the Italian
Ambassador to China, it has been decided to return this
concession to the National Government within the shortest
possible time. This was announced by the foreign minister
at Shanghai on July 25. Negotiations of details are still
in progress. After the return of the Tientsin Italian
Concession, there will be no more concessions in China.
(Source not stated: probably Domei in Chinese or Japanese).
82. Transfer of Enemy Assets in Canton Area.
Canton, July 29.- The transfer of enemy assets
comprising 12o enemy assets to the National Government of
China (Nanking regime) was completed today at the head-
quarters of the Japanese forces in south China when the
commander-in-chier of the Japanese forces handed over the
list of assets to Chen Yao-tsu, governor of Kwangtung
province, in an impressive ceromony here. The transfer
was the first to be effected in south China. The trans-
ferred assets included 16 schools inc luding Lingnan
University (Canton Christian College), 12 hospitals, 40
factories, seven warehouses, 80 churches, 21 residences,
six office buildings and 38 other buildings. The transfer
of these enemy assets was arranged simultaneously with
the transfer of assets to central China in accordance
with the second Sino-Japanese agreement regarding transfer
of enmy assets. (Domei in English).
83. Control of Cooperatives Turned Over to Nanking
Regime.
Nanking, July 29.- The ministry of information
of the Chinese Government (Nanking regime) announced on
July 29 that Japan will transfer (control of?) cooperative
enterprises to China. It said that China, realizing the
important role which the cooperatives play in the civil
administration, in the production increase plan and the
plan for improving the people's livelihood, desired
Japan to transfer to China all cooperative societies in
central China which were under Japanese guidance after
the Sino-Japanese inoident. Answering Nanking's fervent
desire, the Japanese authorities bave notified the
govermment that the formal ceremony of transference will
be held on July 31. (Domei in English).
Nanking,

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-40-
Nanking, July 29.- The publicity ministry announced
this afternoon that the government (Nanking regime) has
been notified by Japane se authorities of the formal transor
to the Chinese Government on July 3l of enterprises and
cooperative societies in central China which have been under
the guidanee and supervision of the Japane se army since the
outbreak of the Sino-Japanese affair. The cooperative
societies, of which there are more than 600, have been
engaged in the improvement of farming technique, guidance
of productive activites, streamlining of agrarian finances
and sales of farm products. The publicity ministry's
announcement voiced gratitude to Japan for the latest
manifestation of Japan's new China policy. (Domei in English).
84. Japanese Give Up Tax Exemption Rights.
Nanking, July 31.- Javanese residents in China in
the past enjoyed the special right of not having to pay
taxes to the Chinese Government. That right is a part of
the extrality rights. However, in accordance with the
treaty of transfer of tax imposition right signed between
Japan and China on July 31, these Jananese residents,
will, effective from August 1, be obliged to observe
China's tax impositions. By virtue of this treaty,
practically the entire tax imposition right has been
transferred to the National Government of China (Nanking
regime). Such a step will of course prove beneficial for
the enhancement of finances of the government. The
transfer of the tax imposition right this time covers
wine, tobacco, cotton and silk woven goods and includes
the consolidated taxes ex godowns, salt tax, income tax
and business tax. Through this transfer of right, the
tax revenue of China will be increased by approximately
CRB100,000,000 (Yen 20,000,000). In enfor01ng the
collection of these taxes, the income tax and business
tax of Japanese residents in China will be directly
affected and will constitute a duplication of taxation.
The Japanese and Chinese authorities will make the best
possible adjustments...(Source not stated: probably Domei
in Chinese or Jananese!.
85. Interior of China to be Opened to Japanese
Residents.
Nanking, July 3l.- The ministry of foreign affairs
of the National Uovernment (Nanking regime) on July 31
made an announcement relative to the opening of the
interior of China for residence by Japanese, the gist of
which follows: The abolition of extrality in China by
Japan commenced with the giving up of the tax exemption
right. ...In response to such intent on the part of Japan,
China is fully prepared to take measures gradually to
open the interior of China for Japanese to live and trade
there. (Source not stated: probably Domei in Chinese).
HONGKONG
86. Telegraphic Servioe Between Hongkong and
Manokwari.
Hongkong, July 8.- The communications bureau of
the Hongkong Govermment Gemeral has deeided to open
telegraphio serviees between here and New Guinea as from
July 10.

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-41-
July 10. Only telegrams addressed to Manokwari are
accepted for the time being. The rate is the same as for
telegrama to Celebes. (Domei in English).
87. Second Graduation Ceremony of Seamen's Institute.
Hongkong, July 15.- The Hongkong Seamen's
Training Institute held its second graduation ceremony
yesterday for 55 students. Fifty-seven students graduated
last June and are now engaged in marine transport service.
(Domei in English).
88. Increased Mining Activities in Hongkong Region.
Hongkong, July 17.- In view of the increasing
importance of such minerals as lead, tungsten, molybdenum
and tin for the purposes of defense industries in East
Asia, the Hongkong government general authorities since
July last year have been planning to reopen certain lead
mines in Hongkong, as well as tungsten and molybdenum
mines in the Kowloon area, according to the Asahi. They
added that they have already begun operations? in these
mines while investigation of tin, manganese and iron
mining in the same areas have been completed by the
authorities. (Domei in English).
89. Remittances by Overseas Chinese to Hongkong.
Hongkone, July 2l.- Before the war remittances
to Hongkong by overseas Chinese in the South Seas regions
were tremendous in volume. After the war broken out,
these remittances were temporarily suspended for some time.
However, the governor of Hongkong, in sympathy with those
inhabitants who used to rely on remittances from overseas
Chinese for subsistence, allowed each home to receive a
monthly remittance not exceeding l00 yen. Ever since the
beginning of the year remittances from various places in
the Co-Prosperity Sphere through the Yokohama Specie Bank
and Taiwan Bank have gradually been increasing in volume.
Up to the end of June these remittances have exceeded
Yen 52,000. From January to June this year, remittanoes
from various places through these two banks were as
follows: from the Philippines Yen 19,000; from Indochina
Yen 16,000, and from Malaya and Sumatra Yen 7,000.
(Report in Chinese by Nankine's Central News Agenoy).
90. Rohabilitation of Industries at Hongkong.
Hongkong, July 22.- In the past one and a half
years since the British were iven out of Hongkong,
tremendous strides have been witnessed in its rehabili-
tation with the fight (?) of industries, such as tobacco,
sugar and foodstuffs, not only attaining but greatly
surpassing prewar levels, both in quantity and quality.
Moreover, with the inflow of raw materials from within
the Co-Prosperity Sphere, produots are now shipped out
to accommodate neighboring countries. New discoveries
of hiddem resourees have been made and the development of
sueh minerals as tungsten, sulphate of iron, quartz,
limestone and molybdenum has been pushed ahead to supply
the heavy wartime industries. Seientifio researehes are
also being carried out to improve the quality of these
minerals

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-42-
minerals in all experimental stations. Lead which is
mined in large quantities is not only utilized for
industries here but also shipped to Japan and mining
operations for tungsten have been tremendously enlarged
to fill the needs of the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity
Sphere. (Domei in English).
Expansion of Industry in Hongkong-Kowloon Area.
Hongkong, July 24.- Under the aegis of the
government general various factories in Hongkong and
Kowloon are now engaged in increasing the production
of necessary commodities greatly for the satisfactory
prosecution of the Greater East Asia War. A phenomenal
increase has been witnessed especially in weaving
industries and in the production of rubber, Manila rope,
sugar, clothing and beer, as well as in cold storage goods.
Before the outbreak of the war there were more than 700
factories concerned with light industry in Hongkong and
Kowloon. Simultaneously with the occupation of the
Hongkong area by Jananese forces in December, 194l, all
these factories were placed under Jananese hands and read-
justed and merged to half the number to increase efficienoy.
Recont conditions in various light industry factories in
the Hongkong-Kowloon area reveal great inprovement in
both the quality and quantity of fabric and rubber
produets under the direct management of Hongkong. Of the
various kinds of rubber, boots and other goods connected
with medical equipment are now being successfully manu-
factured. Weaving plants are now turning out tons of
superior grade canvas every month and are aiming at increas-
ing their output still further. Presently a certain
company, which has been commissioned by the government
goneral, is engaged in the manufacture of Manila rope and
has arranged to obtain more materials for its manufacture.
Also commissioned by the government general, another company
is now engaged in managing foodstuffs factories and seeing
that they meet the requirements. The same company 1s also
turning out butter and is already exporting large quantities
of th: product to various parts of the Greater East Asia
Sphere. Cube sugar required for Japanese home consumption
is also being manufactured by Hongkong-Kowloon factories...
Bleaching power as well as caustic soda is also being
produced. of the total output of Hongkong-manufactured
produots, 70 percent is exported while the balance is
consumed locally. (Domei in English).
91. Hongkong to Have Agrioultural Afforestation
Inotituto.
Hongkong, July 25.- It is learned that the
Hongkong government general aut horities have decided to
open an agrioultural afforestation institute in the
Hsinchieh area in order to give instruction on increase
of food productiom and simultaneously to encourage
afforestation. Experts of the institute will guide the
farmers of Hongkong and Kowloon to inorease produstion
with improved farming implemnts and fertilizers and
better methods. Waste lands will be transformed into
rieefields. (Dome1 in English).
92.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
92. Postal Service Between Hongkong and Mongchiang.
Hongkong, July 27.- The communications bureau
of the Hongkong government general announced that postal
service between Hongkong and Mengchiang will be opened
from August for registered as well as ordinary mail.
Ordinary letters cost 12 sen which rate is the same as for
mail between Hongkong and central and south China as well
as between Hongkong and Japan. The communications bureau
also is pushing plans to open a postal service between
Hongkong and north China in the near future. (Domei in
English).
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS
93. Increased Production of Tertiles in Philippines.
Manila, July 3.- Self-surficiency in textile
articles in the Philippines is speedily being attained
with plan after plan being put into effect for the
acceleration in strengthening the country's cotton
industry. It is recalled that most of the textiles
was imported from Janan prior to the war. Native
production averaged only one percent of the local
consumption...However, following th Japanese army's
arrival, a plan was immediately established for the
increased production of cotton and maximum native
produotion of textiles. Textile works in the Philippines
include the National Industrial Company (20,000 spindles)
and the Philippine Cotton Mill (8,O0o spindies). The
present 20,000 spindles are busily engaged for long hours
in spinning out high grade textile articles. Articles
manufactured presently are being supplied to those engaged
in reconstruction development projects. Since the reserve
stock of articles imported prior to the war was abundant,
free purchasing was permitted even prior to the arrival
of the Jananese army until April this year. However,
from May the coupon system of sales will be instituted
for a more rational distribution of textiles. The military
administration has decided to increase the textile pro-
duction facilities to three times the present size. Steps
are already being prepared for importing spinning and
weaving faoilities from Japan, of which 50,000 spindles
will be allocated in the Philippines. The question of
raw materials is expected to be solved with the successful
operation of the seoond and third year plan of production,
now that the first year has been completed with great
success. The National Industrtal Company is now experi-
menting with encouraging results in the produotion of
textiles with 40 peroent hemp mixed with cotton. It is
expected that this will speed up the solution of the
raw cotton question. Lately also success has been
aehieved in manufaoturing cloth in which wool consists
of ootton warp of hemp (?). Meanwhile, this year's
harvest of raw cotton is rapidly being converted into
usable textiles by the National Industrial Company.
(Domei in English).
94.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
94. Sixteen More Post Orfices Reonened.
Manila, July 9.- It 1s officially announced
today that an additional group of 16 post offices in the
Philippines will be reopened shortly to handle mail,
postal money orders and postal savings, bringing the
total number of post offices now in operation to 309.
Specific post offices to be reopened are the following:
Isabela in Negros Occidental province; Augdangan, Tayabas
province; Infanta, Laguna province; Talisay and Consolacion,
Cebu province; Santo Domingo, South Ilocos province;
Tilik, Mindoro province; Castillejos, Zambales province;
Rosario, General Trias and Silang, Cavito Province; Tiwi
and Libon, Albay province: San Rafael, Bulucan province;
Aborlan, Palawan province, and Bani in Pangasinan province.
(Domei in English).
Manila, July 23.- Communications throughout the
Philippines were virtually restored to complete normalcy
with the sppedy reonening of the postal telegraph and
wireless station. With Indenendence only a few months
away, authorities of telecommunications (service?) will
open a few offices which are still closed. It is under-
stood that more than 335 post offices in Iuzon and Visaya
are now handling postal savings and deposits and money
order business. (Domei in English).
95. Telegraphic Connection With Thailand Opened.
Manila, July 6.- The Plilip ine telegraph
communications bureau will handle telegrams between the
1slands and Thailand from tomorrow at 50 centavos a word.
For the time being only telegrams addressed to Bangkok
will be accepted. (Domei in English).
96. Reopening of Telegfaph Offices in Philippines.
Manila, July 8.- The Philinpine telephone com-
munications bureau reopened a total of 60 telegraph
offices by July 4 throughout the arohipelago. It is
expected that overseas telegraphic communication with
all parts of the islands will be established shortly.
Forty-three of the 60 telegraph offices also will
operate service while the rest will use regular lines.
Meanwhile, the bureau also has succeeded in reopening
the telephone offices in 3l important cities and inter-
city as well as local telephone services have #lready
been reopened. In addition, three special coma nication
offices have been created, connecting the reoently
developed areas. (Domei in English).
Manila, July 13.- The Philippines telecommuni-
cations bureau announced that telegraphic service will
be commenced on July l6 by the newly established telegraph
office at Fabrica, Negros Occidental province. (Domei in
English).
Manila, July 17.- The Philippine communications
bureau today announced the opening of five new telegraph
offices in five provinces whioh will accept telegrams in
Japanese, Tagalog and English. The new ofrices will be
opened at the following places: Gapan, Nueva Eoija
provinoe;

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-45-
province; Gattaran, Cagayan province; Cabagan, Isabela
province; Aritao, Nueva Vizcaya province, and Iba,
Zambales province. (Domei in English).
97. Seamon's Training School Established.
Manila, July 9.- Following the development of the
islands' coastal communications, the increase in seamen
is now a necessity. In view of this the naval authorities
in the Philippines have decided to give training to the
seamen of the islands. Graduates from primary schools,
between 16 and 20 years of age, will be selected and given
fundamental training. Upon their graduation after a year
of study they will be sent to sea to take care of communi-
cations work. (Domei in Jananese).
98. Four Concrete Bridges Opened to Traffic.
Manila, July l0.- Four concrete bridges in
southern Luzon were onened to traffic yesterday, follow-
ing impressive ceremonies. They are the San Cristobal and
San Juan bridges situated at Calamba, Laguna province;
the Paniadero bridge situated at San Pablo, Laguna pro-
vince, and the Cagnos bridge at Tiaong, Tayabas province.
Reconstruction work on the four bridges, started in March
this year, was carried out by Wilipino foremen in coopera-
tion with the Jananese military administration. (Domei
in English).
99. Pampanga-Manila Steamship Line to be Restored.
Manila, July 16.- The steaship line between
Pampanga and Manila, connecting Guangua in Pampanga with
Manila city, will be restored shortly. The steamship
line was discontinued three years ago prior to the out-
break of the current war. It is understood that the
service will greatly aid in linking Manila with Pampanga
which is now enjoying an unprecedented business and
agrioultural boom. Meanwhile, the truck line has been
opened to join Baguio to the lowland provinces including
Tarlac, La Union, Ilocos Norte, Bontoc and Pangasinan.
(Domei in English).
100. Government Revenues During May Increased.
Manila, July 16.- The govornment's collections
from internal revenue and customs taxes during the month
of May this year showed an increase of approximtely
Pesos 300,000 over the previous month. Filipino econo-
mists, commenting on this inorease, said it was a good
Indication of the expansion of commeroial and industrialastivities
in the Philippines. (Domei in English).
101. Philippine National Bank Reopens Three Branohes.
Manila, July 16.- With the reopening of three
branches of the Philippime National Bank in the provinces
in the Cagayan Valley, Filipinos residing in Bayombong
in Nueva Viscaya provinee, Tuguegarao in Cagayan province
and Ilagan in Isabela provimee are now to enjoy banking
and eredit facilities. Aimime te inerease the anmual
preduetion of prinoipel feedstuffs, the beak will extend
loass to farmers and mershamss to boost local agrioulture
amd indwtries. (Dome1 in Mmglish).
102.

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.98)
-46-
102. Increased Remittances to Hongkone and
Occupied China.
Manila, July l6.- Remittances by Chinese over-
seas merchants to Hongkong and Nanking-controlled China
have been increasing rapidly both in amounts as well as
in number of remittances. In May the total remitted was
Pesos 187,000 while the number of remittances totalled
31 which was double the monthly average over the period
of four months beginning with January. The total number
of remittances and the amount for the five month period
since regulations ontrolling remittances went into
effect on January 21 were 1,275 and 324,000 pesos
respectively. (Domei in English).
103. Return of Properties to Chinese Residents.
Manila, July 22.- In appreciation of the all-out
efforts of the Philippines Chinese Residents Society here
in estab ishment of the new Thilippines, the Jananese
military administration on July 20 returned part of the
Chinese properties hitherto held in custody as enemy
assets to the original owners. Restoration of Chinese
properties, which consist of 12 buildines and houses and
other items, was disclosed in a notification on July 20
to the chairman of the Chinese Residents Society by the
director of the general affairs bureau of the military
administration. It was pointed out in the notification
that the Chinese Residents Society, since its organiza-
tion a year ago, has wholeheartedly been rendering assist-
ance to the military administration in economic reorgani-
zation and maintenance of peace and order in the Philinpines.
(Domei in English).
104. Bank Deposits Increase in Philippines.
Manila, July 23.- Reflecting the healthy economic
activities in the Philippines, bank deposits throughout
the islands have registered a marked gain with the figure
for the end of June totalling Pesos 275,000,000, or a
gain of Pesos 61,000,000 as compared with the correspond-
Ing figure at the end of March. The June figure also
recordod an advanoe of about Pesos 50,000,000 compared
with the total of Pesos 224,000,000 prior to the out-
break of the present war. In view of the fact that 17
banks were in operation before the war as compared to
the present seven, it can well be conoluded that the
economic activities within the Philippines have far
topped the prewar level, even considerine the natural
wartime increase of commodity prices. Of the total bank
deposits, two Japanese banks accounted for Pesos 112,000,000
for a gain of Pesos 46,800,000 over the end of March total
while four Philippine banks are responsible for the remain-
1ng bank deposits, 1noluding Pesos 150,000,000 in curront
deposits, rising about Pesos 30,000,000, and Pesos 16,000,000
in time deposits, rising by about Pesos 3,300,000. Special
current deposits, savings accounts and correspondence
deposits totalled Pesos 47,g00,000, gaining by Pesos
30,000,000. While the sharp increase in current deposits
18

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-47-
is believed to be attributed in increased economic
activities, the gain in special current deposits and
correspondence deposits as well as savings deposits
is understood to be due to an increase in interest
rates on these deposits from May 1. Financial
Gircles believe that a future (further?) inorease of bank
deposits will be noted within the coming few months,
reflecting the smoother commercial transactions due to
the wider use of cheques and abolition of the distino-
tion between conditional deposi ts and unconditional
deposits. (Domei in English).
105. Wheat Flour Substitutee Made in Philippines.
Manile, July 23.- A program to attain self-
sufficiency in bread and noodles through the use of
substitutes such as pulverized rice, corn and cassava
is being realized as local flour miils are satisfactorily
meeting demands of the people. Prior to the outbreak
of the war only four small scale flour mills were found in
Manile but presently more than 10 mills, including those
under the managoment of Chinese residents, are in opera-
tion. Meanwhile, experimental wheat growing is being
carried out by the authorities concerned and, if success-
ful, more flour mills are expected to be constructed.
(Dome: in English).
106. Public Works in Mindoro Province.
Manila, July 24 (from Calnan, Mindoro).- With
a total appropriation of Pesos 135,oco the province of
Mindoro is embarking on a significant public works re-
construction program which included bridge construction
and road repair. It is understood that the construction
of the Alag and Longos bridges along the Calpan-San
Teodoro highway was completed recently while repair work
along Calapan and Naujun beach 1s also underway. (Domei
in English).
107. Increase in Number of Cargo Boats Calling at
Manila.
Manila, July 24.- Cargo ships plying between
various points in Greater East Asia and stopping at
Manila are ever increasing, according to the Tribune.
It is said that recently great quantities of general
merchandise, including cigarettes, tea and matches,
have arrived in Manila from Hongkong and Canton. The
goods are scheduled to be distributed to Filipino merchants
shortly. It is understood that the supply of daily
commodities from Japan, Shanghai, Canton, Hongkong, and
ports in Taiwan and Manchoukuo are on the increase with
the goods being sonstantly sent to Manila as well as to
other distributing centers of the Philippines. (Domei in
English).
NETHERLANDS EAST INDIES
108. Hew Juridieal System Inaugurated in Java.
Batavia, July 1.- The new juridical system in
Java, replacing the former system imposed by the Dutch
regime under whieh diseriminatory treatment was given
the

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-48-
the native inhabitants as well as other Asiatic peoples,
will be initiated from today, according to a decree issued
by the Japanese military administration in Java. Under
the new system all cases previously tried in the suprome
court, including civil and criminal cases in which Dutch
Government officials as well as white people were
involved, will be tried in local civil or criminal courts.
Cases hitherto provisionally placed under the jurisdiction
of courts under the Japanese military administration by
decree promulgated in April this year were also transferred
to their respective local civil or criminal courts. (Domei
in English).
109. Revised Regulations for Native Officials in Jave.
Batavia, July l.- Native officials greatly
rejoiced as regulations concerning civil appointment and
salary will become effective from September l. Since the
enforcement of the military administration in Java, the
local inhabitants acting as officials have been cooperat-
ing with Japan enthusiastically for the construction of a
new Java and have been rendering great service. In March
this year, on the occasion of the first anniversary of
the occupation of Java, the military administration made
public the civil service system regulations in order to
stabilize native officiels' living and to make them
realize that they are the leaders of the people. Detailed
regulations to be made effective on September 1 this year
in respect to native customs, manners, systems and ideal
of Greater East Asia made the bases for the new system.
Sixty million Tavanese are thankful for the announcement
of the civil service system regulations on the heels of
Premier Tojo's declaration in the Diet promising the
Indonesians permission to participate in governmental
administration. (Domei in English).
110. Census of Soerabaya to be Taken August 1.
Soerabaya, July 2.- The swift progress which
Soerabaya has made in all spheres of municipal activities
since its extrication from Dutch clutches will be recorded
when the municipal census, the first to be taken here since
the outbreak of the war in Greater East Asia, will be taken
on August l. Experts believe the population, which made
a noteworthy increase parallel with the return of prosperity
recently, nowwell tops half a million. The census will be
conducted by 600 census takers who will be appointed from
among the native Javanese after one week's training by
experts from Japan. (Dome1 in English).
111. Prooessed Spices Manufactured in Macassar.
Macassar, July 5.- Locally manufactured spices
including curry powder and pepper were placed on the market
for the first time in Celebes history from the beginning
of this month, thanks to efforts of the Spice Manufactur-
1ng Company, which was established on April 29 in Macassar.
The manufacturing of spices was never undertaken under the
Dutch regime despite the fact that neighboring islands
such as Ambon, Halmaheira, Banda and Sanghie have long
been known as most ideal places for raising sueh spice
plants

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
-49-
plants as clove, nutmeg, mace, kajoemonis, asem,
fonilla and tumeric. Tumeric, which was generally
considered to be indigenous to Ceylon, has been
found growing wild in southern Celebes. (Domei in
English).
112. Economic Developments in New Guinea Reported.
By Magohei Tanaka, War Correspondent, Imperial
Navy, Japanese Base in New Guinea, July 7.- Economic
construction of New Guinea toward the goal of self-
sufficiency in foodstuffs and increased production of
other products are rapidly progressinp. To sink or
swim with the fighting going on, every second counts.
Simultaneously with war operations, production of war
materials is being carried out for the construction of
an invincible base against Britain and the United States.
The New Guinea naval administration, after completion of
explorations and investigations and experimental pro-
duction of rice and vegetables, have plenned a production
program designed for securing military supplies on the
spot. The production program has been started with the
mobilization of 200,000 native inhabitents.
Chief among the projects to be carried out ...
are firstly, mining of coal and manganese ore, secondly,
planting rice and vegetables on already cultivated lands,
thirdly, tunny and bonito fishing and their processing;
fourthly, lumbering and ship building, and fifthly,
tapping damar and other resins, extraction of cocount
oil and manufacture of soap. Since the native living
standard is low and the staple diet is obtained from
sago palm and other native products with a plentiful
supply of fish and vegetables, their only need, in orde
to assure food supply, is to increase rice production.
The policy being followed is to utilize local labor as
much as possible for local production as early as possi-
ble. For instance, salt is manufactured by boiling sea
water with wood as fuel. Caustic soda nroduced from
salt is mixed with cocount oil to produce excellent soap.
Production of salt and soap on a big scale is possible
due to abundance of natural gas and cocount oil.
Native carpenters will be mobilized for the
construction of wooden vessels on a large scale. Experi-
mental rice planting proved that large scale rice cuiti-
vation is possible even without the use of fertilizers.
Second crop planting has been started by an agricultural
company. Vegetables and fruits are secured from planta-
tions in nine places. The tapning of dammar resin is
now greater than in prewar days. The supply of marine
products is not only surficient to meet local requirements
but also can be utilized for canning and processing into
dried bonito. A factory is now being constructed for
this. From the beginning, a controlled distribution
system under fixed prices was enforced in order to control
prices. This system has been gradumlly extended to local
manufactures such as lumber, coconuts, cogonutroil, salt,
lighting oil and soap. There is no fear of rising priees.
Thus

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
-50-
Thus production is everything in New Guinea inasmuch as
increased production meane victory. New Guinea is rising
up from a primitive state and growing up as an advanced
production base desnite enemy bombing attacks. (Domei
in English).
113. Gathering of Soa Shells for Making Buttoms.
Macassar, July 7.- Arrangements are now being
made by the authorities for a large-scale gathering
of sea shells in the areas of the southern regions for
the manufacture of buttons... The southern regions,
which are rich in various species of shell such as trocas,
green snail shells, Flores shells and mot her-of-pearl,
are fully expected to meet the demand for buttons of the
entire Co-Prosperity Sphere. Until the outbreak of the
War in Greater East Asie, Japan was the largest manufacturer
of shell buttons, annually exportine the product to Great
Britain, The Netherlands, India and elsewhere. Accord-
ing to the present plans, shells will not be shipped to
Janan as hitherto but they will be roughly shaped into
buttons on the spot and then finished in Janan. (Domei
in Englioh).
114. Substitute Wool Froduced from Wild Silkworm.
Batavia, July 8.- Having successfully carried
out experiments to produce substitute wool from "Attacus
ricini", a species of wild silkworm, Jananese scientists
attached to the Bogol (Bogor?) agr'cultural experimental
station here under the irection of Masakichi Hori,
former adviser to the Kanegafuchi Sninning Comnany and
lecturer at the Kyoto high school...Prior to the current
war, Java imported all its raw wool and woolen goods
from Australia, but it is said that this revolutionary
discovery will not only assure Java of Sufficient clothing
materials but all regions within the Co-Prosperity Sphere
as well. The Java climate is ideal for raising this
species of wild silkworm which thrives on leaves of the
castor bean. The silk cocoon is ready to be unreeled
in only 15 days after the silkworm begins weaving the
cocoon. (Dome1 in English).
115. Air Mail Service Between Japan and East
Indian Islands.
Macassar, July 19.- The airmail service between
Japan, Celebes, South Borneo, the Lesser Sunda and
Molucca 1slands, and an inter-island service, commenced
today, it was officially announced. For the time being
the airmail service is limited to business documents.
The fee is 50 sen up to 20 grams and each pieoe of mail
1s limited to 60 grams. (Domei in English).
116. Substitute for Asphalt Invented.
Modan, Summtra, July ll.- In view of the fact
that the east coast of Sumatra was devoid of asphalt,
Mr. Omishi, technician of the East Coast Experimemtal
Station, has been making studies to find substitutes.
His experiments have recently met wish success, a
substitute

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
-51-
ubstitute being made from a mixture of palm oil and
lime. After heating this mixture to l50 degrees,
chemically dissolved rubber fragments are added and
the heat is further increased to 200 degrees. The
processing of this substitute is thus completed.
(Domei in Jananese).
117. New Agricultural School to be Opened at Magelang.
Batavia, July 13.- The military administration
has made arrangements for the opening of an agrialtural
school at l'agelang about the middle of August where 30
local students will be given a three-year course in
agriculturel training. The authorities are now making
preparations for the opening of several similar insti-
tutions. One higher and two elementary grade agricultural
schools have been reorened by the military administration
to date. (Domei in English).
118. Borneo Youths for l'acassar Seamen's Training
Schoo1.
Banjermasin, July 14.- Enthusiastic youths of
Borneo who applied for a second term in the Macassar
Seamen's Training Institute have already exceeded the
alloted entry number of 50 students. The first group
who recently graduated and returned to the local harbor
office are expected shortly to see active service on
vessels. (Domei in English).
119. Expansion of Salt Production in West Borneo.
Banjermasin, July 15.- With the introduction
of Jananese technique, the salt industry at Singkwang
on the west coast of Borneo has been making remarkable
development, ensuring self-sufficiency in salt in West
Borneo. The authorities concerned recently organized
a salt production sales association as a means of
increasing efficiency in production which now greatly
surpasses that of former days. Various other measures
are also being takon to enoourage produc tion, including
tax exemption for salt, enforcement of official salt
prices and granting subsidies to salt producers. With
achievement of the goal in self-sufficiency for West Borneo,
the authorities are exerting their utmost efforts to meet
the entire salt demand of South Borneo. (Domei in English).
120. Brisk Activity Reported in Colebes and Borneo.
Macassar, July 15.- Brisk activities are going
on everywhere in cities, mines, fields and industrial
plants and unomployment has become a thing unknown
throughout the Celebes and Borneo, thanks to the untiring
offorts of both the officials and the people. It has
been one and a half years since the naval administration
was established for these former Dutch comonies and during
the period both officials and civilians have been heavily
taxed in energy but their eollaboration has been well
rewarded as attested by the accomplishments noticeable
overywhere. The produetion of nickel ore and other
strategio

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
-52-
strategic materials not only has returned to prewar
levels but has far surpassed it. Many new oil derricks
have been set up to bring subterranean riches to the
surface, while new mines also have been opened to
increase production of various commodities vital to the
prosecution of the war. As for foodstuffs self-
sufficiency, already a phenomenal increase was noted
in yields of rice, corn and other cereals as well as
fresh vegetables and marine products. Even cold storage
plants and refrigerating facilities have been established.
Daily necessities such as sauce, curry powder, vegetable
oil and vinegar are now produced locally in sufficient
quantities to meet various demands. Even the production
of sweets for children has not been overlooked. Indeed,
no stone has been left unturned by the competent authorities
in order to bring about complete self-sufficiency in the
supply of foodstuffs.
A phenomenal advance in the develonment of new
industries has also been noticed as a result of the
encouragement of competent authorities and hearty collabo-
ration of local inhabitants. Industrial plants come into
existence for the production of rolled iron, textiles,
cement, bricks and other materials considered indispen-
sable for infustrializing the country, somethinf unknown
in the days of Dutch rule. It is small wonder, therefore,
why unemployment has become a thing unknown even in the
country districts. Commodity prices moreover are pegged
at prewar levels and consequently inflation is also
unknown to the inhabitants of Celebes and Borneo. Even
more significant is the fact that every Indonesian is
going about his work fully conscious that he is taking
active part in the prosecution of the current war.
(Domei in English).
121. Broadcaeting Station to be Eetab?ished
at Pontianak.
Banjermasin, South Borneo, July 18.- The ad-
ministration authorities here announced the decision to
establish a broadcasting station at Pontianak, West
Borneo. All necessary preparations for the construction
are completed and the station is expected to commence
operation by the end of September. (Domei in English).
122. Work of Macassar Scientific Research Institute.
Macassar, July 20.- The Macassar Scientific
Research Institute, which was created on July 7 under the
direction of Dr. Ichiro Sonobe, is now busy selecting
items for study and investigation. It is understood the
institute has already informally decided to investigate
mothods of inoreasing produotion of foodstuffs and
fibrous goods, a study of unexplored regions for mining,
dressing treatment of sores, prevention of malaria and
production of medicines needed in the tropics. It is
expected that the institute will formally draw up subjeots
for investigation during August. The institute will be
installed in a new building now being ereeted. (Domei in
English).
123.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-53-
123. Natives Taught to Make Paper from Rice Stalms.
Soerabaya, July 21.- In Soerabaya guidance 1s
being given to the local inhabitants in the process of
making paper from rice stalks. This is one of the means
adopted to encourage the home industries of the natives.
Large scale production has already been decided upon.
In Java, the printing paper made by a certain paper mill
is now produced to such an extent that the goal of self-
sufficiency for Java has practically been attained.
(Domei in Jananese).
124. Purchase of Java Cotton at Fixed Prices.
Soerabaya, July 26.- Thanks to the joint efforts
of officials end peonle concerned, ∞tton growing in Java
for the current cotton year attained more favorable
results than previously anticipated. Faced with the
harvest season of cotton, which is mainly cultivated in
eastern Java, the authorities of the industrial dopart-
ment of the Japanese military administration in Java
and the Java Cotton Cultivation Association on July 21
held a conference in Besoeki province to decide the
purchasing prices for cotton. As a result of the above
conference, improved species of raw cotton were graded
into five classes, namely, first, second, third and off
grades. It is expected thet the purchasing of cotton
at newly fixed prices will be commenced on a large scale
from early August. With favorable results of the cotton
cultivation for this year, it is believed that the five-
year program for cotton cultivation for self-supply of
cotton in Java will be successfully attained. (Dome1 in
English).
Batavia, July 26.- To assist native farmers
growing raw cotton in agricultural communities of eastern
Java, the military administration authorities will dis-
tribute copies of a booklet giving detailed instructions
on the cultivation of cotton. The author of the booklet
is Takehiko Ishikawa, chairman of the Java Raw Cotton
Cultivation Association. The booklet explains in detail
the selection of land for cotton cultivation, methods for
oxterminating injurious insects and other facts. In
the meantime it is learned that Mohammedan priests are
now receiving lessons from a Mohammedan priest in a course
conducted here; the priests will guide the farmers in
cultivation of cotton on their return to the regions from
where they were despatched. (Domei in English).
125. Cotton Ginning Mills in Celebes Ready for
Operation.
Macassar, July 26.- With completion of the
installation of machinery and the securing of necessary
labor, ootton ginning mills of various sectors in the
Celebes are now ready to commence operations. Preparations
for opening the ginning mills are made in anticipation
for the approaching period for purchase of raw cotton
1n the Celebes and also because this year marks the
initial year of the program to establish a textile in-
dustry in the island. It is planned that by the end of
the ourrent year spinning and weaving mills will be built
im the island. In the meantime, parellel with the found-
ing of ginning mills, the obtaiming of oil from cotton
soeds

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-54-
oeds as well as providing cotton growers with cotton-
seed cake as fertilizer is being planned. (Domei in
English).
BRITISH MALAYA AND NORTH BORNEO
126. Automobile Assembly Plant in Singapore.
Singapore, July 5.- The Kokusan Automobile
Company, which opened an assembly plant...recently
turned out its first automobiles. (Domei in English).
127. Diving Operators Institute Founded at Singapore.
Singapore, July 5.- A divine operators institute
was founded here last week for the purpose of training
native youths to salvage cargoes from sunken shins and
renair damaged vessels. The institute will be open to
those between 15 and 21 years of age and after passing
a strict physical examination they will be given a four
months' training course. The praduates of the diving
institute will be made qualified divers. (Domei in
English).
128. Japanese Soldiers Teaching Agricultural 'ethods.
Singapore, July 13.- To teach native farmers
Janan's agricultural methods the Malayan military ad-
ministration has arranged the distribution among various
states of imperial soldiers skilled in farming and with
a speaking knowledge of the native language. The sending
of the soldiers to help the native farmers is expected
to consolidate the basis for Malaya's agricultural self-
sufficiency through improvement of native farming
methods. Soldiers and teachers are expected to be
desnatched for a three month period to be assigned to
localities beginning in August when the planting season
for paddy fields begins. If the teaching plan is success-
ful, more soldiera are scheduled to be mobilized to aid
farmers in the future. (Domei in English).
129. Comment on Five-Year Industrial Expansion Flan.
Singapore, July 14.- Commenting on the rocently
drafted five-year industrial expansion plan, which was
announced by the Japanese military administration here,
local industrial circles declared the plan was especially
noteworthy since it stressed the founding of iron and
aluminum industries in the southern regions through the
utilization of iron ores and bauxite which are available
in many parts of the southern areas. The decision of
the Japanese Government to enoourage the founding of
the iron and aluminum industries revealed Japan's firm
determination to defend these areas against British
attacks. The present plan is certain to lead to a
marked expansion of heavy as well as light metal in-
dustries in these regions.
The detailed schedule to encourage the fibrous
industry as well as produotion of daily necessities will
sorve

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
-55-
serve to further stabilize living. Parallel with the
industrial expansion program which is in progress in
Malaya, a similar plan to develop basic industries was
contemplated in Java. In this connection marked pro-
duction increase of sugar, coal, zinc, cement and
refractory bricks in Java is expected to be launched
in the near future while production of caustic soda
and other cardinal chemicals will be started within a
few months. The industrial program Malaya and Java will
be well underway and the Philippines and French Indo-
china and other members of the Co-Prosperity Sphere also
are ready to start on positive industrial activities.
With Janan at the helm, the southern regions will soon
become one of the most imnortant spheres of comnlete
self-sufficiency in the world. (Domei in English).
130. Effective Drug for Amoebic Dysentery Claimed.
Kuala Lumpur, July 20.- An effective drug for
amoebic dysentery known as metine is now obtainable
in large quantities from the roots of ipecacuanha, which
is being cultivated on an extensive scale in the central
part of the l'alay Peninsula. The ipecacuanha plant,
indispensable for the manufacture of emetine, heretofore
was cultivated only at several places in the world since
it requires favorable climatic conditions. The slow
growing plant takes at least three years under good
weather conditions before emetine can be extracted so
that it was well nigh impossible to find a suitable area
for the cultivation of this important plant. The British
had been planting it on a small scale in Malaya during
prewar days but it was not until recently that the culti-
vetion of the plant was done on an extensive scale. By
Jananese hands there will be more than enough emetine
supply for the entire Co-Prosperity Sphere. Research
conducted by the Jaranese revealed that the drug was
obtainable even from one year old plants and also from
the leaves and stems of the plant. Several score tons
of the dried plant will soon be sent to Japan for manu-
facture of emetine which promises to be a boon to all
persons, especially those on the fighting front, suffering
from amoebic dysentery. (Domei in English).
131. Large Singapore Floating Dock Said Refloated.
Singanore, July 2l.- The world's largest floating
dock, souttled by the British at the Seletar Naval Base
before the fall of Singapore, has been refloated by Japan's
naval engineers after three months of skillful work,
demonstrating onee more the superiority of the imperial
navy's salvaging technique. The engineering skill of
the imperial navy in refloating the 50,000-ton dock
impressed several thousands of Chinese, Indian and Malay
workers in the employ of the navy, to say nothing of
Japanese residents here who witnessed the prodigious
task of salvaging the dock.
Constructed in England in 1928, the dook was
towed to Singapore in the following year to make the
Britimh naval outpost the"greatest naval base in the
Far Bast". With overall length of 855 feet and width of
172 feet and height of 75 feet, the dook itmelf weighs
20,000 tons and when empty displaees 120,000 tons. The
tromondous

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
-56-
tremendous buoyancy of the dock, that takes oare of a
capacity weight of a 50,000-ton vessel in addition to
1ts own weight of 20,000 tons, is created by 52 tanks
which occupy most of the wall space of the dock. Antici-
pating the inescapable fate of Singapore, the British
souttled the floating dock as early as the latter part
of December, 194l, by opening all 1ts valves and burning
off others at six places with ges torches. It was
towards the end of January this year that the imperial
navy first started making tests for refloating the dock
and two months were snent in actual investigation work.
In March, Japanese divers under the supervision of naval
engineers started repairs on the damaged parts. By the
early part of this month all repairs were completed and
powerful pumps especially installed to pump out the
tremendous amount of water were given their first tests.
With the test completed satisfactorily, work continued
until now the giant dock is again floating at the Seletar
naval station, adding much to the facilities of the port.
The feat is all the more remarkable when it is considered
that during the period the divers' work was interrupted...
(garbled)... (Domei in English).
132. Expansion of People's Bank in Malaya.
Sinsapore, July 21.- The People's Bank, which
was first established in Singapore on September 1 last
year and which has been playing an important role in
stabilizing the people's livelihood, has expanded with
branches throughout Malaya. The latest branch was
opened on July 15 in Kedah. Another will soon be estab-
lished at Selangor. The bank so far obtained loans amount-
ing to Yen 2,350,000 from the Southern Development Bank
of which Yen 1,080,000 has been lent out to 5,400 Malays,
Indians and Chinese inhabitants up to the end of May this
year. The loans are now given at an interest rate of
5 percent per year to all inhabitants including salaried
people, merohants and farmers who had been suffering from
exploitation of usurers. Consequently it is one of the
conspiouous results of this banking system that the number
of local usurors has been reduced to a fifth or a sixth of
the prewar level. Under these favorable results, interested
authorities, with a view of meeting the further need of
establishing the self-sufficient structure of Malayan
industry, are deliberating on a better aystem of making
loans. (Domei in English).
133. Tanning Plant Established in Perak State.
Ipoh, July 26.- Perak's newest industrial
venture, the tanning of hides and skins, promises to
develop into an important occupation in Malaya.
Financed by the Sino-Malay syndicate, a tannery is
situated near Tanjong Rambutan. This industrial under-
taking, in which Chinese, Indian and Malay workers are
engaged in curing skins and hides of cows, buffaloes
and goats, is enoouraged by the government and will
undoubtedly aid the local leather business. (Dome1
in English).
134. Rubber Used for Surfacing Airfield Runways.
Kuching, July 26.- Preliminary tests were
suceessfully made using crude rubber for surface coating
of

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
-57-
of airfield runways here. As a substitute for asphalt
or cement, crude rubber is excellent in the construction
of runways since it has the qualities of simplicity,
ofriciency of application and durability. Especially
in the southern regions, crude rubber runways are
practical because common cement or asphalt is likely to
be spoiled by heavy rains characteristio of the tropics.
Tests have proved that crude rubber runways undergo no
changes under the peculiar weather conditions in the
southern regions. The process of laying rubber runways
moreover is very simple. Crude rubber is merely coated
on prepared ground. Repairing of rubber runways likewise
is a simple process. Molten crude rubber is simply poured
over spots needing repair. Another merit is its dura-
bility. One defoct, however, of the crude rubber is its
odor but that soon will be eliminated by combining charcoal
powder with crude rubber. When the present tests are com-
pleted, the over-production of rubber in north Borneo will
be relieved most offectively through the newly discovered
use of rubber, thereby adding much to the stabilization of
the livelihood of the inhabitants who are mostly engaged in
rubber cultivation. (Domei in English).
135. Prices for Rubber and Rubber Goods Lowered.
Singapore, July 26.- In order to facilitate rubber
consumption, the military administration here has decided
to lower prices of sheet rubber, rubber soles, condensed
latex and waste rubber, effective from August l. Owing to
the reduction of about 15 cents per pound, consumption of
rubber goods is expected to be accelerated. As a substitute
for leather soles, crepe soles will be manufactured on
a large scale while demand for condensed latex will become
bigger for medical purposes. More scrap rubber as well as
surplus rubber will be consumed for the manufacture of
substitute gasoline and anti-malarial oil. These will be
obtainable at low prices hereafter. (Domei in English).
136. Production of Oil from Rubber Seeds to be Started.
Singapore, July 27.- Marking another ohemical
triumph for Japan in the southern regions, the large
soale production of oil, for manufacturing paint, from
rubber seeds will be started in the near future. Oil
produced from rubber seeds hitherto thrown away as useless
is semi-dried and makes good quality kerosene. When mixed
with linseed and perilla oils it is said to be ideal for
paint making. Experts believe that the production of
new "rubber seed oil" will contribute measurably toward
the rise of the paimt industry in the southern regions
while the supply of kerosene to the native inhabitants
will also be further imereased. (Domei in English).
Singapore, July 26.- The ertractiom of oil from
rubber seeds is mew being sendueted on an experimental
basis in e eertain Japamese factery. Large seale pro-
duetiom will be earried eut in the mear future. In the
past, these seeds were mot utilised. For the purpose of
remedying the shertege of weod oil fer maznfasturing
paint, thss factery paid attemtien to the extraetion of
is now in pregress. The otl
the

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-58-
the manufacture of paint. In addition, the oil may
serve as a substitute for coconut oil for lighting
purposes. The purchase of rubber seeds will increase
the income of workers in rubber plantings. (Domei in
Japanese).
BURMA
137. First Shipment of Jananese Spinning and
Weaving Equipment.
Rangoon, July 13.- The first shipment of
Jananese weaving and sninning equipment, including a
large number of spindles, arrived here recently in
accordance with the Ja anese plan to transfer its
idle spinning facilities to the southern regions which
was decided last April. The plan is expected to aid Burma
in attaining self-sufficiency in clothing and improvemont
of the economic status of Burmese weavers. It was recalled
that the British policy prior to the current war prevented
the adoption of modern methods in Durma's textile industry.
As a result of that oppressive policy, there are less than
10,O0o spindles throughout Burma today. (Domei in English).
138. Burmese Central State Bank to be Established.
Tokyo, July 2l.- Within this year a Burmese
central state bank will be constituted, it was revealed
by U Chit Tun, young director of the banking buroau of
Burma, at a dinner given on July 19 in his honor by the
president of the Hypothec Bank or Nippon Kwangyo Ginko.
He remarked that within a few months after the formation
of a military administration in Burma, the People's Bank
of Burma was established. In addition, Burma, being
predominantly agricultural, preparations are also being
made for opening of an agricultural bank. "Thanks are due
to the Japanese experts who have given us valuable assistance
at all times", said he. (rome1 in English).
THAILAND
139. Gold Yen for Settlement of Imports from Japan.
Bangkok, July 5.- The Ministry of Tinance of
Thailand sorved notice on the public on July 3 to the
effect that settlement of accounts for materials and
resouroes imported into Thailand from China and Japen
will be made on the basis of gold yen, with the exception
of imports by Thai authorities for which special approval
has been obtained from the Minister of Finance and
imports of commodity samples the value of whioh is less
than l00 bahts. (Domei in Japanese).
140. Bumper Crops of Rice Expected in Thailand This
Year.
Tokyo, July 13.- Bumper crops of rice are expected
in Thailand this year due to the unusually favorable
weather, aesording to Mainichi despatohes from Bangkok.
The paper reveeled that the first harvest of the rfee
seamon extending from January to May in northwestern
Theiland

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-59-
Thailand totalled 1,340,04 piculs compared with 960,355
piculs for the corresponding period last year. The harvest
for the same period alons stretches of the Menam River
totalled 805,387 piculs against 503,345 niculs last year.
The second harvest rice, which is planted in June and
July, 1s expected to reach a total of 543, 349 tons. In
addition, there are still apnroximately 50 to 60 hundred
thousand (?) tons stored in regions other than the Menam
River banks where last year three-quarters of the stock
was swept away by floods. The naper pointed out that
there will be enough rice this year for Thailand to
export large quantities of this stanle product to other
countries of the Co-Frosperity Sphere. Meanwhile, trans-
portation traffic which hitherto derended on waterway
facilities is being concentrated on overland routes.
(Dome1 in English).
FRENCH INDOCHINA
141. Unified Code of Civil Laws for latives in
Indochina.
Hanoi, July 8.- Enactment of a unified code of
civil laws affecting the native inhabitents of French
Indochina is expected to be decided upon formally at a
gubernatorial conference scheduled to convene on July 20
at Dalet. It can be recalled that, at last year's confer-
ence, an agreement was reached to enact a unified code
applicable in all areas and draft regulations were drawn
up recently in conformity with this decision. The adontion
of the unified code and civil laws marks a clear cut
departure from the policy hitherto followed by the French
Indochina Government General of remaining strictly aloof
from disputes among the native inhabitants and of leaving
the solution of their legal disputes to established habits
and customs in the respective areas. The unified code
is expected to prevent complications which invariably arose
in the past due to the lack of unity in rules and regu-
lations. (Domei in English).
142. Agreement for Supply of Commodities from Japan.
Tokyo, July 10.- The Asahi renorted from Saigon
that an agreement for supply of com odities to French
Indochina, based on the Japan-French Indochina agreement,
is expeoted to be concluded in the near future. Rokuro
Suzuki, Japanese consul general at Saigon, is scheduled
to call on Jacques Martin, director of the economic bureau,
tomorrow to hand over the Jananese draft of reply which
was drawn up...due consideration of Indochina's desires.
According to the Asahi, formal agreement was expected to
be signed either In Saigon or Dalat by Konkichi Yoshizawa,
Japanese Ambassador, and Jean Decoux, Governor General, when
the latter returns from his inspection trip. The provision-
al agreement providing for supply of commodities to French
Indochina for the period from January to March was effeoted
on January 25 this year, and will be replaced by the new
agreement to be enforoed retroactively. The quota of
Japanese importers will also be made effective retroactively
from January 1, under the new agreement. (Domei in English).
Saigon,

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
-60-
Saigon, July 16.- Complete agreement was reached
between Janan and French Indochina in a meeting yesterday
between the Jananese Consul General, Rokuro Suzuki, and
Jacques Martin, director of the economic bureau of the
govornment, with regard to the goods whioh will be
supplied to French Indochina by Japan this year. Formal
documents will be drafted shortly and are expected to
be approved and signed by representatives of the two
countries in Dalat. (Domei in nglish).
Saigon, July 25.- Regarding the agreement for
supplies from Indochina for the present fiscal year on
the basis of the economic agreement between Banan and
Indochina, the clas ifications and quantities of the
entire supply of material resources from Tndochina were
decided upon on l'arch 4. As to supplies of material
resources from Japan to Indochina, negotiations are
progressing rapidly. As a result of the conversation
between Consul Genoral Suzuki and '. Martin, chief of the
economic bureau, Indochina accented the Jananese proposal
as submitted. It is expected that the agreement will be
signed next week. (Domei in Jananese).
143. Commodity Interchange Cornoration of Janan.
Hanoi, July 14.- The Hano1 Foreign Trade Control
Association, which hitherto wes instrumental in effecting
a liaison between the Japanese ambassadorial office and
Japaneee trading firms, has been complet ly absorbed by
the Commodity Interchange Corporation of Janan. The
association, which wes formed by Jaranese firms in north
Indochina with Hanoi and Haiphong as the centers of acti-
vities, played an important role in fixing quotas and the
smooth distribution of imports and exports between French
Indochina and Japan. (Domei in English).
144. Subsidies for Speedy Delivery of Unhulled Rice.
Saigon, July 16.- The French Indochina Government
General promulgated new regulations providing subsidies
to native farmers for speedy delivery of unhulled rice
during the present harvest season. The regutations also
carry a new list of prices for various grades of unhulled
rice whereunder the price of rice produced in the hinterland
districts was raised to four piastres from three. The
regulations also state that farmers delivering unhulled
rice from the hinterland during July will be paid 4.35
niastres per picul, including a subsidy of 35 cents.
(Domei in English).
145. To Discuss Political and Economic Condition
of Indochina.
Saigon, July 19.- A conference of administrative
leaders of Frenoh Indochina is scheduled to be held for
three days from July 21 at Dalat under the chairmanship
of Governor Ceneral Jean Decoux to discuss the political
and economic condition of Freneh Indochina as well as the
consolidation of the country. Attending the conference
will be the Freneh resident superiors of Cambodia, Annam,
Tonkin and Laos, representatives of the Government, three
General. (Domei in English).
146.

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-61-
146. Natives Adr itted to Certain Government
Positions.
Hanoi, July 20.- The Government Gonoral of
French Indochina on July 1l promulgated a degree
granting native inhabitants the privilege to occupy
certain government positions in special administrative
districts in Saigon and Cholon as well as in other
cities, towns and villages which heretofore had been
held by the French alone. The positions made available
to the natives by virtue of the decree are chief and
assistant secretaries, engineers, financial inspectors,
and health inspectors in case of srecial administrative
districts in Saigon and Cholon. With regard to directive
organs in cities, towns and villages, administrative,
technical, financial and health positions have been
opened. The present action is a sequel to the recently
adopted policy of opening government positions to native
inhabitants, increasing their salaries and improving the
treatment of recruited native troops. (Domei in English).
147. Collection of Toll Tax from Thai Residents
Abolished.
Hanoi, July 2l.- A regulation stipulating
collection of poll taxes from Thai residents in Cambodia
and Laos as well as in other districts in French Indochina
was abolished under a deoree issued by Governor General
Jean Decoux under the date of July 7. It was understood
that hitherto Thai residents have been taxed on the same
basis as native inhabitants. (Domei in English).
148. Report by Domei in Chinese of Indochina
Developments.
Saigon, July 22.- Since the conclusion of the
armistice between Germany and France in the current war,
Japan has been the only country through which French
Indochina could trade. And since the conclusion of the
Franco-Jananese pact of May 6, 1041, she has been the
foundation stone upon which the economic relationship
of the two countries was based. From Indochina's point
of view, the direct advantage of the pact was that no
restrictive measures are necessary to limit production.
with respect to imports, Indochina's smooth and stable
economic life used to depend on a large amount of imports
from different places in East Asia. However, due to the
sudden change brought about by the outbreak of the
Greater East Asia War on December 8, 194l, a new problem
arose--communications with France were cut and trade with
couhtries on the Pacific coast came to a standstill.
Hence, Japan became the only country with which Indochina
could trade.
The Indochinese authorities proclaimed different
regulations with regard to the progress of control measures
in an attempt to readjust the economic system. On August 13,
1941, the Indochinese authorities proolaimed that the
import and export of all commodities were permissible and
that the import corporations should organise a guild to
aot for the authorities in matters relating to the
proeedure of imports. The same guild system was applied
to

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-62-
to exports. Owing to the importance of rubber and
grains, their export control was very strict. A
special organization dealing exclusively with the
purchase and exnort of rubber was therefore established
in February, 194l, in Saigon under the direct super-
vision of the authorities and the advice of experts.
Rice and corn are under the control and management of
a speoial organization. On December 1, 1942, this
organ was reorganized into the grain committee, directly
attached to the Ministry of Economics. Besides holding
the responsibility of making contr cts for the delivery
of nolished and non-polished rice and corn, that com-
mittee is authorized to order all guilds in the country
to conduct the business of transportatior, purchese,
sale and delivery of grain.
Referring to actual conditions under which distri-
butions are made in southern Indochina, measures intro-
duced in December, 1941, emphasized...consumption of
important products. Most of the imrorted goods were
under direct governmentel control and special distribut-
ing committees were established. As cloth weaving is
the most imnortent industry in all the homes in Indochina,
a ration system for cotton thread, rayon and artificial
cotton was immediately installed after the establishment
of the weaving association. Paper is also controlled
in accordance with the production situation. A marked
improvement has been mede in the control of matches,
sugar, soap, timber, fats and alcohol. Control of
production is observed at the same time with control
of foreign trade and general consumption as its purpose
is to check over-production at home.
In the case of minerals, it is especially necessary
to control production in view of reduced exportation and
small demand in the country. Production plans for neces-
sary industries have changed so much that develonment
projects must always be kept up.
Indochinese authorities have done their utmost to
develop agriculture and are particularly keen in the
production of textiles and oils. Before the war, Indo-
china imported 15,000 tons each of cotton and cotton
thread and 20,000 tons of yellow flax. At that time,
the annual production of cotton in Indochina was about
1,000 tons and of yellow flax only a few hundred tons.
Consequently it was decided to increase the production
of cotton and oil. A plan for increasing the production
of sesame oil is presently underway. It is expected that
oil-producing plants will be planted everywhere in the
country.
In the fiold of industry, in order to make Indochina
self-sufficient, light industries have been encouraged
and considerably expanded. Due to the development of
manufacture of alcohol, charcoal gas and generators,
four (?) percent of last year's motor cars are kept
runningl
Speaking of priee sontrol, Indochina used to be a
relatively inexpensive country, but at sueh a time when
prioee

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-63-
.j country are rising and imnorted goods
ipensive and the demand exceeds supply, it
matural that prices in Indochina also went up.
ore it was decided to control all prices in the
ry. Prices for all commodities are required to be
a and conomic police" have been formed to prevent
Ppossible violation. The Central Price Control Com-
Jee is responsible for carrying out the rules and
Glations. Its chairman will be either the head of the
Aistry of Economics or the person acting in his capacity
d the vice chairman will be chosen from among the offi-
ials directly concerned with the different guilds. At
resent all guilds are in agreement with the policy of
the authorities. Following are the six guilds organized
since the control system came into effect: minerals guild;
industrial guild; transportation guild; agricultural guild;
commeroial guild and finance guild. Although they may be
of different sizes, they are all under the control of the
governor. Connection between all these guilds are very
close and, with a view to facilitating their activities,
an Indochina economic association was formed with the
head of the bureau of economics as its chairman and repre-
sentatives of the guilds and the governor as its members
so that connection may be meintained through the joint
association of the guilds. (Domei in Chinese).
149. Construction of Large Fishing Port near Saigon.
Saigon, July 25.- Construction of a large fishing
port at Binh Dinh in the neighborhood of Cap St. Jacques,
outer harbor of Saigon, has now entered the second stage fol-
lowing the completion of the foundation work. The port, which
is expected to be completed by the beginning of next year,
will become the center for surnlying fresh fish as well as
fish processing and oil manufacturing. The construction
will be started shortly of another fishing port at Vinh, nor-
thern Annam. (Domei in Enelish).
CHB/mol

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.93)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONG
TO THE SECRETARY
BE FLY. CHAIRMAN
KER
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
.CASE
HENRY PAYNE
XKARNINKROX X XX XC
.M. CRAVEN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
BAY C. WAKEFIELD
July 14, 1943
C. J. DURR
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
Fife 12718
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant. Secretery of State
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/138
I am attaching herewith additional copies of
04.76
Domel Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
2
Very truly yours,
Dederlingsn
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Attachments
C)
1:1
FILED
6-1943
on
P
PORDEFENSE
1943
1E
F
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND RAXPS

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT
WRITE IN THIS SPACE
70143
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
CALIF.
779
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
7328
CAL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
T7
FREQ KC
A-2
3
566
30
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS
FMN
INDICATORS:
RY
GRIFFIN
INDR XI D DY
ANAI YST:
GMT:
93 CQ CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS LE JUO/JAU2 HP NW GC AT 183D JUL 9TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 7 MANILA /7 INI 7 AILA S/7 LIEL DUE HEART
FAILURE AGE SIXTYEIGHT ALJANIRC FOCES RIT ALJANIPC ROCES
COU-
NDSELOR EXECUTIVE COMMISSION CO CURRENTLY PRFSILENT PHILIP-
PINES REI CROSS SOCIETY ALSO PUBI ISHERANILA TFIBUNE SPANISH
LANGUAGE VANGUAIDIA RPT VANGUANLIA PX
F
PARA 8B CANTON 9/7 IMI L8 CANTON S/7 CAFICIALLY IGHT NAVIGA-
TION PEARL RIVER PROHIOITEL SINCE 2L/4 19AL 1A1 22/4 194L WILL
PERMITTED AFTER SATURDAY STOP AVIGATION ON HIVEF UPTO ZELE
 22L ALLOWEI SINCE 1/4 1N 1/4 SYEAR PREVICUSLY OLY
LAYLIGHT SAILINGS ALLOWEL
PARA B9 TOKYO S/7 LAL LS TOKYC S/7 IMPEIRIAL HEALQUARTERS
153 M1 153E CONMUNIQUE QUOTE IMPE IAL NAVAL AIR UNIT 7/7
IMI 7/7 ATTACKEI ENEMY WHICH ADVANCED TO ROBIANA RPT ROBIANA
ISLAND TO SOUTH MUNDA RPT MUNLA ON NEWGEORGIA RPT NEWGEORGIA
1
ISLAND AND CAUSED LAHGE FIRES WHICH ENVELOPED ENEMY POSITIONS
2
STOP RAIDERS DOWNSHOT THIRTYONE ENEMY FIGHTER& PLANES STOP
FOUR OUR PLANES UNYET RETURNED
PARA 1 CANTON 9/7 MI 1 CANTON 9/7 JAPANESE ARMY PRESS
so
SECTION STATEMENTED SAYING CHRISTENING CEREMONY THURSLAY
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN
THIS
SPACE
143
181
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WRKS:
OBS
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDFXED RY
ANAL YST
GMT:
PROTHREE WARPLANES DONATED ARNYHARL BY JAPANESE PESIDENTS
CANTON AREA ONLY ONE EXFFES:ION CF STRONGEST INLIGNATION
LOCAL JAPANESE WELLS CHINESE CONMUNITIES FOLLOWING REPEATED
INLISCRININATE BONBINGS PERPETFATEI PARAIRNEN UNISTATES AIR-
FORCE CHINAWISE STOP SAIL A TIALEFICAN FLELING NOTAULY SPUR-
KED MAY EIGHTH WHEN AREFICAN JONUS' EXPLODING SOKE JUSIEST
SECTIONS CANTON INFLICTEI NEAR****
本*
CASUALTIES ANONG
NONCOMBATANTS STOP SAMETIME SAIL CHINESE CUNE INCHEASINGLY
DISCREDIT UNISTATES PROPAGANLA AS EXENPLIFIED LIEUTGANERAL
JOSEPH IMI JOSEPH STILLWELLS JULY FOURTH CLAIN LURING YEAR-
LONG OPERAIIONS CHINANISE AMEFICAN AIRFORCE LOST ONLY NINE
KILLED THREE OTHERS MISSING STOP ANNOUNCEMENT SAIL CHINESE
COME REALIZE EVEN ON JASIS CANTON WAR RESULTS ALONE ABSURLITY
SUCH CLAIMS STOP PRESS SECTION ANNOUNCED SOME ANERICAN CAS-
( )
UALTIES CANTON AREA CURING PAST SEVERAL MONTHS STOP NEAMELY
FIASTLY FIRST LIEUTENANT HOWARIC ALLAS SECONILIEUT ML LEWIS
MI ML LEWIS SERGEANT PAULG WEZB SERGEANT JAMES YOUNG DOWNSHOT
NEAR PEARL RIVEH YESTEROCTOBER SECONDLY FIRST LIEUTENINT
DANIEL ANOTHER DOWNSHOT CANTON AREA YEAT YESTERNOVEMBER THIRD-
10
LY SECOND LIEUTENANT JOHNB LAYMEN LML JOHNB LAYMEN FIVECTHERS
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
143
FILE
181
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
BY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED RY
ANALYST:
GMT:
DOWNSHOT CANTON CITY NAY EIGHTH SYEAP
PARA 11 TOKYO 9/7 N.I 11 TOKYO S/7 YOI. IURIHOCHI 1M.1 YOA IUPI-
HOCHI EXBANGKOK REPORTS QUICKLY RESPONLING INIIAN INDEPEN-
DENCE LEAGUES ANNOUNCEMENT NATIONAL ARNY LARGE NUJE INDIAN
YOUTHS THAILANDWISE STARTEL APPLYING LEAGUEWAFL PHOENLIST-
MENT STOP ALDEL INLIANS RESIDENT THAILANL TOTAL APPROXIAATELY
THREETHOUSAND END BT
F*RUN*DONEI AR
NN TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA E E E T E ELEEEE
1130
VE VE VE PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2Q3C JUL 9TH BT
COPYRIGHT DONEI 12 TOKYO 9/7 1MI 12 TOKYO 9/7 PA ALLEL WITH
ITS MAR EFFORTS COOPERATE WITH JAPAN PROSECUTING GREATER EAST-
ASIA WAR NATIONAL GOVERNMENT CHINA OUTCARRYING LARGE SCALE
DOMESTIC RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAL'S WHICH INCLULE REBUILDING
EMBANKMENT ALONG YELLOW RIVER ACCOREING AAINICHIS IMI MAINI-
CHIS DISPATCH EXNANKING STOP SAIE RECONSTRUCTION PROGRAMS
2
APPROVED BY NATIONAL ECONONIC COUNCIL YESTERMONTH ALSO INCLUD-
ES CONSTRUCTION NEW LARGE CANAL NORTHERN PART ANGSU PAO-
VINCE OTHER IRRIGATION SYSTEMS STOP JOURNAL SAID FIRSTLY
10
UNDER AYE THREEYEAR PLAN FIRST YEAR WILL DEVOTED REPAIRING
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WOPKS:
FREQ KC
OBS
JAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
RY
GRIFFIN
INDEXFO RY
ANAI YST
GMT:
REINFORCEMENT EMBANKNENT ALONG GRANL CANAL WHILL IN SFCOND-
YEAR CONSTRUCTION LARGE FNBANKKENT WEI RIVEK ALSC AFOUNL
HUNGTSEHU IMI HUNGTSEHU LAKE KIANGSU INI KIANGSU PHOVINCE
WILL UNDERTAKEN STOP RE INFOFCELENT YANGTZE ELBA KKENT WILL
LAUNCHEI THIRDYE AR STOP ALLEL PROJECT INVOLVES ANNUAL EXPEN-
LITURE TRE TYAILLION YUAN STOP UPON COAPLETION PFOJECT ATER
LEVEL HUNGTSEHU LAKE ILL ELEVATED RECLAINING APPFOXINATELY
SEVENNILLION ACRES LANL STOF T. OHUNDRED SEVENTY KILOMETER
NEN CANAL WILL COVSTHUCTEL CATHERN KIANGSU PROVICE STOP
UPON COMPLETION CANAL SEVE THOUSANI SUUARE KILOLETEKS LANI
WILL CO VERTED INTO CCTTCN POLUCTICN AKEAS STOP PROJECT
COST THREEHUNDHED AILLION YUAN STOP THIRDLY WITH ESTINATE
ONEHUNDREL FIFTYNILLION YUAN RECLANATICN LARGE SWAMP AREAS
ON EASTERN BANK LAKE THAIHU KIANGSU IMI TAIHU KIANUSU PROVIN-
( )
CE WILL UNDERTAKEN UNDER ANOTHER THREEYEAR PLAN REGAINING
FORTYFIVE THOUSANI ACHES ARABLE LANL STOP SIMULTANEOUSLY
PLAN ENVISAGES LREDGING WATERRAY FRON LAKE TAIHU TO ML
TIENSHAN LAKE EMBANKMENT CONSTRUCTION ALONG WATERWAY TO FREE
REGIONS FROM ANNUAL FLOODS WHICH HERETOFORE SWEPT AREA STOP
FOURTHLY ANOTHER PHOJECT ENVISAGES PREVENTING WEI RIVER FROM
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
(ALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
rY
GRIFFIN
INDFXFDY
ANALYST:
GMT:
OVERFLOWING DUE DESTRUCTION ITS BAKS BY RITREATING CHUNG-
KING TROOPS STOP SAID LARGE CANAL LOCKS WILL CONSTHUCTED
STOP FIFTHLY PLAN ALAEALY LAUNCHEI CHECK LROUGHT NORTH CHINA
WHICH PARTLY CAUSEL BY LOSS ATER FHON DESTRUCTION YELLOW
RIVER ENOANKMENTS STOP PLAN BESIDES CONPLETELY REPAIRING
YELLOW RIVEI E JANKLENT ANL RESTORING RIVE TO PREVIOUS
COURSE ALSO ENVISAGES COST UCTION NETWORK CA ALS NORTHCHINA
1145
STOP GOVERNMENT ALSO UNLEPTAKING CONSTRUCTION SEVEN NEW HIGH-
WAYS STOP LISPATCH LISCLOSEL CONTENPLATED HIGHWAYS INCLUDE
FIRSTLY NANKING SHANGHAI HOAL WHICH HAS SPECIAL ECONOMIC
N
SIGMIFICANCE STOP SECONLLY HIGHNAY CONNECTING NANKING TSAO-
U
WACHEN RPT TSAOWUCHEN CHEKIANG INI CHEKIANG PROVINCE VIA
SHAOHSING REGARDEL AS SIGNIFICANT FOR INLUSTAIAL DEVELOPMENT
REGIONS THIRDLY HIGHWAY JOINING NANKING PENGPU ANHWEI PRO-
VINCE WHICH HAS HIGH MILITAKY WELLS POLITICAL VALUE STOP
SH
FOURTHLY MSANGHAI KIENTEH ROAI VIA HANGCHOW FIFTHLY NANKING
PAHSIEN ROAD VIA WUHU INI WUHU SIXTHLY PUKOW WOPI ROAD VIA
WUKIANG SEVENTHLY PUKOW WEIYIN INL PUKOW WEIYIN ROAI
PARA 13 HANOI 9/7 ML 13 HANOI 9/7 FRENCH INDOCHINA GOVERN-
MENT OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCED MOREN SEVENTY CASUALTIES AMONG
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
43
_FILE
181
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
FREQ KC
FREO KC
rr
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
3Y
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANAI YST
GMT:
LOCAL NONCONBATTANT POPULACE CAUSED AHEN FORNATION UNISTAIES
WARPLANES INCLUDINC SEVERAL CC SCLILATED JEETWETYFOUF BOLB-
ERS YESTERLAY OUTCARRIED BRITAL BOMBING CIVILIAN AREAS NEAR
HAIPHONG STOP COMMUNIQUE QUOTE AIHUNIT UNISTATES AIRFORCE
CHINA YESTERAFERNOON HAIDED TO IKING LLI TONKING AREA DHOPPED
MISSILES SUBURBS HAIPHONG TOP EOKYEAX KILLI TENTY NATIVE
INHABITANTS WOUNDING FIFTY OTHERS UNQUOTE
PARA 14 MANILA 9/7 1M1 14 LANILA 9/7 OFFICIALLY ALLITIONAL
SIXTEEN POSTOFFICES PHILIPPINESHISE WILL SHORTLY OPENED
HANDLING UNONLY NAIL NATTER BUT POSTAL MONEY ORLERS WELLS
POSTAL SAVINGS STOP ANNOUNCEL LOCALITIES POSTOFFICES INCLULE
ISABELA IN NEGROS OCCILENTAL AGUIANGAN IN TAYADAS INFANTA IN
LAGUNA TALISAY CONSOLACION BOTH CEBU EN BT
FURUNO LOMEI AR
( )
NN TU DE JUO/JAUZ VA E E E T E T
1
1200
(END INTERCEPT)
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.94)
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ORNIA 7426779
FREQ'KC
CALL
72KC
NAT
IT
FREQ KC
GMT
FMN
DESCRIPTION: NO QRM NO QRN
INDICATORS:
ERY GD SIGNAL. STEADY.
nY
ANALYST
M. SHOREY
INDEXID DY
GMT:
CQ DE JUO/JAU2 (DOTS) VE
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR  LC AT 1330 JLY BTH BT
ROPYRICHT DUEI 2 AILAB/7 D UPYRI T  EI 2 A ILA
/7 OFFICIALLY SITY TELERFICESCEOF FTTREL
ESSA ESELLPT S/7 TT
ANDLIVIRLLES
PHILIPPI ES STO ALSOILOSED T LEPH EXOHSEF IOES
REUPENED I THIRTYUNE LAPORTANT ITIES PARA
21TOKYO 8/7 1 PERIL HEADQ A TER 153 C1QUEWISE
ECIEALLTIC
REVEALID SWEEPIG JAPALLSI FIE IVE
IN HEAVY LOSSES A TIAUSTRALIACF AL ISTATES
TRUOPS W ICH TCARIE LALI ASSA T ASSA SAY AFA
AISITS STA IED
STOP COA
IQUE TEYTUALLYT
VICIITY SALAAA RT SALA AUA SU TATE EWGUI EAEE
COUNTER ATT CK  SIE B/GISTAT TROPICH LAED
( )
NASSAU BAY ALSO AUSTRALIA TR UPS W ICH AUVA CE FRUM
1
DIRECTIWAJCTIWITH UNISTATETROOP STOP
2
VICIHITY COLDUBI RPT BOI DUBI OUR  ITS LAUNCHED SURPRISE
ATTACH ENELYS REAR S/7 ROUTED E IEIY STOP OUR AIR LITS AIDED
ENEMY POSITI S NASSAU BAY AREA 1/7 3/7 /7 INFLICTED
9
10
HEAVY DAMAGE BOTH ENEMY VESSELS LANDINGS UNQU TE PARA
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.93)
AGE TWO
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA
OBS
WORKS:
CALLL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
IMN
INDICATORS
SHOREY
INDFXED BY
ANAL YST
GMT:
22 SHONAN 3/7 AUCIA1ZATI1A
ATI.L
ARMY LUIALEPLTEE LEACLLAUO ATER
1580 3/7
CULJU IQUED G TE I DIAN I DEPL IDL CL LEA
CACTASIA
HAS URCA L EI AY STOP TUIS AR YLL AS IIAN
NATI AL AY STOP I O ATI AL A Y LA
SVOP
ALLECI/ JCE
TO CAUSE IIA  PLETE I DEPE DE
CI ST IT
FFICERS
EN AVE DELIC TLD TILEI LIVES T
CET TAS LXPULSIO
BRITISL EXI IA AD LST LISIT ANIIAI LIA IS
QUTE PARA
23/SHONAN 3/7 OFFICIALLY 1 IA. ATI
AL AR Y TA L COLURFUL
REVIEW TUESDAY FUHOR VI. ITI
JAPALESE REIER STOP ON
OCCASIO
SUCHAS CHANDRA BUSE CAPA ITYETDEPE
DE CE LEAGUL AU RES. ING TOJC CTE THIS Y VILL IVE RE AIL
MEMORABLE I HISTURY NEWLY ORGA IZED A Y F F RE
1.1.1
( )
UQUUTE BOSE REQUOTE YOUR PRESENCE ANK  SOLDIERS
2
TODAY HAS GIVEN POWERFUL MPETUS TO UUR PEVOLUTIU ARY
STRUGULE S TOP ARMY THAT STANDS LLFORE EXCELLE CY TODAY
KNOWN THAT TWILL HAVE FIGHT PROINDIAS LIBERTY STO IT
ALSO CCINSCIOUS OF MANY DIFFICULTIES THAT SHALL BESET PATH
10
TO VICTORY AND FREEDOM STOP BUT TIS:O IVINCED HOWEVER
LONG THIS WAR MAY LA:T THERL CAN DUT OE OUTCOE NAELY
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.94)
PAGE THIE
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
18
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
CALIFORNTA
OBS
(AL1
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NA1
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS.
SHREY
BY
INDEXID DY
ANAIYST:
GMT:
OVERTUROW A GLOA ERICAIIALIS
A: 1
PLITEI TURY
JAPAN AND ALLIES  Q TE STOP THIS AR YS THL EII
TCLED
FULLY UTILIZE
RLSE T OL E
PRTITY AL ACI IVL
I IA LILERTY AT C ST ANY
A FIFL E STOP L. TPLS TASK
AR Y HAS ACTIVL SUPPORT ALL IIA LA TA IAISI  SI
ENTHUSIASM KNOWN NO NDS STOP
CLUSI
EYLL
AS E
Y
YOUR LXCELLEC UR SAKALLI LLTER IATI FIHT ITH
YOU SHOULDER TO SHULDERLUUTE PARA
24 CANTU /7 11 2 CA T /7 UFFICIALLY TWE TY A.
0952
BOMBES FIGHTERS NSUCCESSF LLY ATTEAPTED RAI CA T
(DUTTER)
(RESUT AFTER ATTL TL BAIL CA TN)
1505 WEDESDAY DROPPIN THEIR
IS:ILES I T
EAT FIVER
STOP SAID JAPA ESE FIGHTERS ILIATILY OSE DUV SLOT
DEFINITELY IL PROLABLY AUTIC ENE Y AIRCRAFT STOP
REMAININC ENEMY PLA.ES FLED
ORTSTARD END
FURUNU OLEI AR
M TU DE JUO JAU VA
(HOLDS KEY DON)
VE VE VE PRESS DE JUU/JAU2 BT
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.95)
PAGE FOUR
DO
NOT
WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALIFORNIA
OBS
FREQ KC
CALL
NAI
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
BY
SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
COPTRIGHT DONEI 25 SHOHAN 3/7 11 COPTI T DO EI 25
SHONAN 3/7 O ESIYZER ALAI YO TS  O CEE STDYING
EASTASIA DEVELOP MENT TRAII SCHOLL ECLIVEIPL
EET PARA
SMORN SCT
YA APA
26 T KY /7 11 26 TKYU 1/ L A FD KUSA
.T VELL
TEDOPOSERYICAKFAYL
LLIER ISE
IS
AICANISERETA
AIKO SAITA PISIC Y VCALIST T JI  JITA PAI TER
WILL UCL DED ATAALESLC LTAL IS 
1CH
TAHILANDWARD STOP U ERST
EXPECTED LEA.E OCT E
VE.i
ILL LADEDY PEIUCE
OTPE IL'LS ILL SELICTED
1133
NUBUSUKE TAKATSUKASA STO
AL ARISTI ACITICTURAL
FRON AMONG LITERARY ED CATI
RELICIOUS
EDICAL FIELDST
EANWILE THAI CULTURAL
( )
MISSION A SO LEIIG S LECTED ER LLADESHIP FU NMINISTER
1
2
VICHITRA VICHI AVADHAKARU ETEYPECTEI JAPANWA  TWO
3
GROUPS SEPTEMBER OCTOBER PARA
27 TOKYO 8/7 MAINICHI LML 27 TOKY. 3/7 MAINICHI
8
REPOR TING EXRANGOUN DECLARED AMAZING PROGRES: BEING ADE
9
10
ADMIMISTRATIVELY ECONOMICALLY MILITARILY BURMAWISE
TO UNIT:

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FAGE FIVE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
OBS
CALL
NAI
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
RY
M. SHOREY
INDEXLD BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
ADVCALIAEATAA SIYETHA
SUBFOURPOINT PRGRA
CNGRESS MAY SYEA NA ELY FI STLY STRE OTHENIRA
AL :E: ICE PRUSPIFT L ERY
DEFEE AY SECLYTI
ATI
ASIA
THORDLYVERSIAILY LIFE IOPLE
:TOP
L TIE PPILATI
FOURTILY PERFEDETITY
RERTED SICE JAPA ESESEL TO RUSTELIISH
TTIEFF RTS ETESTAELISH
LURUESE CCE TRATIE
TUP LST UT
ENT ECONONIC SELFS FIIT STTL
151
LNT
POI TED AMONG IY ACTIT
SECLY
UPSPEED REC STR CTIFITLY L WERI LAOTA
PURCHASE LARGL CUA TITIES RICE T ILY LSTA. LIS MENT AGRICUL
UARANTEEI FA ERS RIGHT OF
TURAL ABSOCIATIFOURTHLY
CULTIVATIN STUP DECLARED  RESE ATI ITIES SPARING NO
H
RTP NO EFFORTS PR. DEVELOPULNT OTER AGRICULTURAL I DUSTRIES
( )
WELLS MINERAL INDUSTRIES STOP REPURTED LLIEF PREVALINT
AMONG BURMESE LEADES BUR ESE IPENDE CE REPARATIU
2
RGAN
COMITTEE SHOUL GANIZE POWERFUL ADINISTRATIVI
CUMBIULTANEUUS INTENSIFICATI RMAS WAR PRSECUTIC
O.ERNMENT MAY
EFFORTS STOPX PAPER OUTPOI TED BUR AS NEW
9
TAKE FORM SIMILAR NATIU AL GOVERMENT CHIA STOP MHATEVER
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
81x
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
184
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
CALIFORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY:
ANAL YST
SHUREY
INDF XED BY
GMT:
LRITISH
FORM GOVER LNT ADOPTED REBESTALISIET FO E
IIVIDUALISU CTLIDERALISM
ADMI:ISTRATIVI SYSTE BASED
QU
ENTIRELYUT ESTIOPARA
(BREAK DOTTER, HA D KEYI EALA L)
29 BYLIE DOMEI CORRESP NDE IT SHU A 7 L1 20 BYLIE
DOMEI CORRESPONDENT SHONAN /7 IIA ATI L AY ORCANI
ZATI  WHICH A NOUNCED PARSU HAS CI AURA COSE PRESIDEUT
WAITS
LY ORDIR  ARCI PRU-
IVDIAN INDEPE DE CE LEALE
COENCE EUTRY INTO IIA RID FAT:E LAL LRITDOIATI
STOP EWLY ORGA IZED AR Y  PUSED TSAND YOUTFUL
INDIA PATROITS HO SETTIASIDE O IP LITICAL ELICAI US
ILITACY TI INC DAY
ETCASTE DIFFERE CES UNUEROCING 
ETNIGHT PREPARE SELVES PRUHT ANTILRITISH DO INT
INDIANISE STOP NE A MY WILL FIHT SACRIFICE UQU L STOP
E
( )
INDIAN NATIUNAL ARMY BEEN EQUIPPED CUIALATEST LIGHT ETHAVY
2
ARMS STOP ARMY THOUGH YOUN YEARS REAY ETEAGER ENGA E ITS
F
BRITISH ENEMY END BURUNO LOMEI AR
N TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
:1155
(END INTERCEPT)
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.95)
1
29-R8C
DATE 7/10/43
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
HONOLULU T.H.
COPY:
JZ8
FREQUENCY33KC. SENDING TO:CQ
A-2
RST 58SSIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE BENDING SINGLE SWPM. NO
RN. QRM AND SLIGHT FADE.
CONCERNING RETURN INTERNATIONAL SETTELMENT SHANGHAI WHICH SCHEDULED
PLACETAKE 1/8? 1/8. ALSO RESTORATION FRENCH CONCESSION HERE
CHINAWARD
PARA 54 ROME 1/7? ROME 1/7 ITALIAN HEADQUARTERS COMMUNIQUED
ANTIAXIS FORCES SUPPORTED BY STRONG NAVAL AIR UNITS LAST NIGHT
STARTED ATTACH ON SICILY? SICILY BUT MET BY VIOLENT RESISTANCE
AXIS DEFENCE FORCES STOP FIGHTING IN FULL SWING ALONG SOUTHEASTERN
COASTAL STRIP ISLAND STOP REVEALED ENEMY EMPLOYED PARATROOPS IN
THEIR ATTACK STOP AXIS GROUND UNITS DOWNSHOT TWENTYTWO ENEMY PLANES
FIFTEEN WHERE OF OVER POPTO EMPEDOCLE? POPTO EMPEDOCLE COMMUNIQUE
SAID REVEALING GERMAN FIGHTERS ACCOUNTED FOR ANOTHER ELEVEN EMEMY
1348
 PLANES

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDRESG ALL GOMMUNIGATIONG
TO THE BECRETARY
AIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE, BECBETAL
RA
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
AYNE
XAAEHHIETOINXXXXC.
SE
IN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
EFIELD
July 16, 1943
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of Stete
Department of State
Washington, D.C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
I am .ttaching herewith additional copies of
894.76/139
894.76
Domei Press intercepted from Japenese stations.
Very truly yours,
G. E. Sterling
Assistent Secretary of State
and Chief,
hadio Intelligence Division
FILED
6-1943
Attachments
O
Contidential File
PS
/LF
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
AVINGS
BONDS
6

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.92)
23-180
DATE 9-849
WASHINGTON CASE NO..
Homelulu TH
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORD
FREQUENCY0175
KC. SENDING TO:
c8
SIGNAL DIEDSCRIPTION.
1330 PRESS PRESS PRESS DE HL/JUP3 JL/JUP3 HL/JUP3 HR BC AT 2230 JUL STI ET DOMKI
Q42 (NANBIGUN HOODOOBUOHOCDAN) KANTONMAT IHI AIKOKU KANT ONGOONO MEDMEISIKINI ATARI
NANSIGUNDENA HATIHI ZAISI BEIKUUGUN AKUGYAKUWO HEITAIO BAKUROSITE HANOGOT OKI YOOSINO
HOODOOBUOHOO DANWO HAPPYOOSITA SARU GOGATUHATIHI ZAIBI BRIKUUGUNNI YOPTE OKONAWARETA
J 
KANTONSINAI MUSABETU BAKUGEKIGA IKANIZANGYAKU KIWAMARINAI MONODRATTAKAWA SHUUWINWO
KIOKUNI ARATANA TOKORODEARU KUTIOHIRAKEBASEIGIJINDOOWO SAKEBU BEIKOKUNO GIZENSHADOMOWA
HAKUCHUU KOOZENTO SINADHANKAGAINI TOKOROWO KIRANIZU JUUBAKUGEKIO KUWAE JITUNI HENSUU-
HYAKUNO MUKONOSMIWO SASAHOOSITA NODEARU KONOKITIKORO GOTOKI BOOGYAKUKOOINI TAISI
DAREGA FUNGEKINO NKIWO OBOEZARUMONOGA AROOKA JINDOONOTEKI ZAISI BEIKUUGUNNI TAISURU
CHUUNITI RYOOKOKUNINNO TEKIGAISINWA KISEZUSITE FUTTOOSI BEIBGEGEKDMETUNO SENYIWA
IYAGAUENIMO KOOYOOSITERU HONHI KINENSUBEKI TAISHOOHOOTAIBINI ATARI KANTON ZAIRIUUHOOJIN
ITDMANSANZENNO AIKOKUSIMNO KESSHOOTARU KENNOOKI AIKOKU KANTONGOO (SANKI)
NOMEDMEISIKIO KYOKOOSERARE WAGARIKUWASI SINYEIKITOSITE YUUSIO MUKANTAKOTOWA SINNI
KINKAINITANMAI TOKORCDEARU KOKUMINNO KENNOOKIWA TADATINI BEIKUUGUN GEKDMETUNO SOOTONI
TUKUDEAROO ENSHOONI NAOKARITE CHUUGOKUSEIHANO YABOOWO TOGENT OSURU ZAISI BEIKUUGUNNO
SHOOTAIO MAKOSO CHUUGOKUNO MINSHUUWA HAKKIRITO MIZUKARANO WEDEMITANOMI NARAZU
NIOMOPTE TAIKKNBITA HAZUDEARU JUUKEIT IKA MINSHUUMO MATA ZENJI KARERAGA CHUUGOKUNO
TOMODEARI EZARUKCTOWO NINBIKI SITUTUARU KARERANO GOOGANAFUSONNARU FURUMAIWA SUBAIT
JUUKEIGUNTONO AIDANISURA PUNSOOWO MAKIOKOSITERU SARANI JIKONO MUNOOBURIGA HONOOCKU
NARABINI JUUKEINI SIRARERUKOTOWO KYO KUDONIOSORE SUTIRUWUERU DMI SUT IRUWUERU WASARU
NANAGATUYONHI ZAISI BEIKUGUN SOOSETUKINENBINI ATARI KAKO ITINENKANNO TOOJOIN
HONBITU WAZUKANI KYUUMEI YUKUEFUMEI SAMEINISUGINUTO HAPPTOOSEITERUIA SONO

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
FREQUENCY
KC. SEND!NG TO:
RST.
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION.
PAGE TWO
DETARUMESA KAGENWO SDMESUNIWA KONMEI KEIRINNADONO JIREIO AGEZUT OMO
KANTONTIKUNCMIDE TARIWU SAKUNEN JUUGATU HONKON BAKUGEKINO KITI SHUKOO
(TAMA EDONOE) KAHANNI GEKITUISARETA HAAWADO IMI HAAWADO SII ARASU IMI SII ARASU
H* MAARER EWU RUISU MI MAAREE ERU RUISU SHOOI POORU JII UWEPPU MI POORU
JII UWEPPU GUNSOO ZEDMUSU YANGU DMI ZEDMUSU YANGU GUNBOONO YOMEI OYOBI
ONAJIKU SAKUNEN JUUITIGATU KANTON#KUNI GEKITUISIRETA DANIKIRU DMI DANIKIERU
KUUI HOKAIT DIEI SARANI HARU GOGATUHATIHINO KANTONSINAINI GEKITUISARSTA
JON BII RAIMAN MI JON BII RADMAN SHOO IHYA ROKUMEIO KUWAETEOKOO TOMOARE
BEIKUUGUN KITARABAKITARE WAWENI BANJAKUNO HONAEARI HISHATUNO SEISINA NANJDRA
ate
1355 GT

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.93)
21-160
DIRECT
HOBOLULU TH
OBSERVER27
COPY:
RECORENG
JHL/ JUF
FREQUENCY17KC. SENDING TO:
8
RT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTIONTAPE2O
1330
PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JHL/JUP3 JHL/JUP3 JHL/JUP3 HR NW BC AT 2230 JULY 7TN BT DOMEI 45
(INDOSEICHOO ROOKAINA YOOKYUU) ISUTANBUURU NANAHIHATU NYUUDERII RAIDENNIYORDBA
INDONO HOOJOOWA IZEN SHUUSCKUSEZU ROKUHLSOOCHOO ENEBANII TETUDOODE SENROBAKUNATU
HIKENGAGK ORI RESSHAGA TENPUKU TASUUNO SISHOOSHAODASI GENZADMADENI HANMEISERU
HEIZONSHAWA WAZUKA HAT DMEIT OYUU SANJIO JAKKISITAGA INDOSEICHOOWA JIXENWO
..MI MI....
HITAKAKUSINI KAKUSITERU IPPOOKAKARU INDOKOKUNAI PUANNO HINKO.........
....FUANNO SINKOKKKANI SH.........SINKOKUKANI SHOORYOSITA SEICHOOWA KAIGIHANO
KAIJUUO KAKUSAKUSI ROKUNI SANOGOTOKI KAIGIHANO HANYEIKETUGI TEPPAIO YOOKYUUSERU
ROOKAINAIKKNWO HAPPYOOSITA (SAKUNEN HATIGATUNANANI KAIGIHAGA HANYEIKETUGIO CKONATTA
TOOJITO GENZAINO JOOSKIO KIKAKUSUREBA WANAHADASII HENKAO KITASITEORI KORENI
TOMONATTE KITOOKYOOUNO TAIDCMO KAIZKNSARETE IRUKARA GANJIINO HANYEIKKTUGIWA SUDENI
HONO HIZENBEIGA NAJKUNATTERU KAIGIHAGA MOSIKONOYKKUGIO TEPPAISUREBA GENZAI
NYUUGOKUCHUUNO KAIGIHA SHUNOONITAISURU TCRIATUKAIO KANWADEKIRUDE AROO
1342

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
143
ACTION TAKEN:
FILK
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ'KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FADE
566
RST
30
WPM
GMT
AL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
5930
CQ CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PAESS LE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 183E JULY
1ETH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 18 LANILA 1/7 IMI MANILA 1K/7 CEREMONIES
OPENING FOUR RECONSTRUCTEI BHILGES CN NATIORAL HIGHRAYS
SOUTHERN LUZON HELD YESTERLAY STOP THESE LESTROYED BY RETREAT-
ING AMENICANS ARE SANCRISTOBAL A L SANJUAN OFIDGES IN CALAMBA
LAGUNA PROVINCE PANIALERO BRILGE IN SANPABLO LAGUNA PROVINCE
CAGNOS BRILGE IN TIAONG TAYABAS PROVINCE
PARA 19 TOKYO 1&/7 1L TOKYO 1&/7 OFF ICILLY FUNDS HELL BY
DEPOSIT BUREAU 5/7 INI BUREAU 5/7 PASSED YEN TWENTY BILLION
MARK COMPARED WITH YEN TE VBILLION NOVENBER 194L IMI 1S4D
STOP MOST OF FUNLS REPRESE TS POSTAL SAVINGS LEPOSITS
PARA 2U SHANGHAI 1L/7 1NI SHANGHAI 1/7 LEARNED FOLLOWING
COMPLETE AGREEMENT REGARIING FUDANENTAL KESTION RETURN
FRENCH CONCESSION TO NATGOVERNMENT CHINA FORNNINISTER CHU
MINYI AND FRENCH AMBASSALOR HENRI COSME LEAGIN LEAVING SOON
NANKINGWARD ORDER UPTAKE DETAILS OF TRANSFER STOP UNLERSTOOD
FORMAL SINING WILL TAKEPLACE NANKINGWISE WITHIN FEW DAYS
PARA 21 TOKYO 1B/7 ML 1&/7 ASAHI REPORTED EXSAIGON AGREE-
MENT FOR SUPPLY CMMODITIES FRENCHINDOCHINAWARD ONBASED
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
rr
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
PY
GRIFFIN
INDE ×FD BY
ANAL YST
GMT:
JAPANESE FIC ECONOMIC AGREEMENT EXPECTEL BE CONCLULED NEAR
FUTURE STOP SAID POKURO SUZUKI JAPANESE CCNSULGENERAL SAIGON
SCHEDULEL ONCALL JACQUE ARTIN LIFECTOR ECONOLIC BUREAU TOM-
ORROW TO OVERHAND JAPANESE LRAFT HEPLY WHICH UPERAWN AFTER
DUE CONSILERATION FIC DESIFES STCF ACCOHIING ASAHI FORNAL
AGREENENT EXPECTED SIGNED EITHEF SAIGO CF LALAT Y KENKICHI
YOSHIZAWA JAPANESE ANASSAIOF JEA DECOUX GOVERNCRGENERAL
WHEN LATTER BRETURNS FRON ISPECTION TRIP STOP SAID PROVIS-
IONAL AGREEMENT PROVILING FOR SUPPLY COMMOLITIES FICWARD FOR
PERIOI JANUARY TO MARCH EFFECTIVEZED 25/1 IML 25/1 SYEAR
WILL REPLACEL BY NEY AGREENE NT ENFORCED RETROACTIVELY STOP
0945
SAID QKOTE FOR JAPANESE ILPORTERS ALSO EFFECTIVIZEL RETROACT-
IVELY FROM JANUARY FIRST UNDER NEW AGREENENT
PARA 22 FUKUOKA 1&/7 1ML FUKUOKA 1&/7 SHIGENORI TASHIRO RPT
SHIGENORI TASHIRO JAPANESE MINISTER ATTACHED JAPANESE AMBAS-
SADORIAL OFFICE FRENCHINDOCHINANISE SHUZO TANAKALATE RPT
SHUZO TANAKADATE DIRECTOR SHONAN MUSEUN ARRIVEI HERE SAFTER-
NOON BY AIR ETIMMEDIATELY TOKYOWARLED
PARA 23 BYLINE DOMEI MILITARY CORRESPONDENT TOKYO 1E/7 M1
N
10
1G/7 PRESSING DEED FOR VITAL RAW MATERIALS PRODUCED IN SOUTH-
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
LE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
FREQ KC
(Ai.1
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED AY
ANA: YST
GMT:
ERN AREAS UNLER JAPANS CONTHOL ETUNDERESTINATION JAPANS
STRENGTH ARE NAIN REASOS NCTIVATING UISTATES QKOTE COUNTER-
CON-
OFFENSIVES UNQUOTE SOLOMONSWISE STOP HOKEVER T ENELOUS
SUMPTION MEN MATERIALS IN UNISIATIS ISLALTCISLAI OPCIATIONS
WILL BOG DOWN HER CANPAIGN ETILL LTAIL FUHTIEF LOSSES
BEFORE BEING ABLE EXTRICATE HEISELF FROA
UNTENAULE POSITION
UNISTATES
CONCENTHA-
STOP EVEN BRITAIN OBSERVIG AITH ASKANCE
TION PACIFIC WAR AREA LISREGA-LING EFFECTS UI OTHER WAR THEA-
OUTCOME
TERS MOREOVER BRITISH PARTICULARLY ANXIOUS CVE
BECAUSE
UISTATES
PRESENT QUOTE COUNTEROFFENSIVE UNQUOTE
BHITAINWARL
MIGHT EMERGE OVEREXHAUSTEI TODE F ANY SERVICE
WHEN ALLOUT GERMAN OFFENSIVE DEGINS STOP ANOTHER REASON IN
S
AMERICAN SHIFT FPON EUFOPE TO PACIFIC IS FACT SO LONG AS SOV-
IETS KEEPING GERMANY BUSY ON LASTERN FRONT THERES UNNEED
( )
FOR UNISTATES TO PUT HER FORCES ACAIST EXPERIENCEL ETFORN-
IDABLE GERMAN FIGHTING MACHINE WHEB THERE NO DEFINITE PROMISE
AMERICAN GAINS STOP FURTHERMORE FACK SUFFICIENT SHIPPING
BOTTOMS ADEQUATE FOR REGULAR EUROPEAN CAMPAIGNS BELIEVED
ANOTHER IMPORTANT REASON FOR CONCENTRATING PACIFIC AREA STOP
IT SEEMS UNISTATES FEARS SHE MIGHT USE UP ALL AVAILABLE
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
JESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
INDEXID PY
ANAL YST:
GMT:
TRANSPORTS IN EUROPEAN LANLING OPE ATIONS THEHEBY PLACING
HER IN POSITION OF NEVER BEINC ABLE BRING FULL FORCE ALAINST
JAPAN STOP PRESENT AMERICAN QUOTE OFFENSIVE UNQUOTE IS OUT-
CONE AMERICAN REALIZATION IMPOSSIBILITY OCARRYING PROLONGED
LARGESCALE OPERATIONS WITHCUT RECOVERY RUBBER TIN OTHER
RESOURCES NOW IN JAPANS HANIS STOP SHE FEELS PRE ENT IS HER
CHANCE APPARENTLY BELIEVING SHE STILL HAS SUFFICIENT FIGHTING
STRENGTH STOP UNIERSTINATION JAPANS STRENGTH OVERESTINATION
0
NWN STRENGTH WHICH UNISTATES DELIEVES TOBE AT HIGHEST EFFIC-
IENCY BROUGHT AME ICAS PITCH UI IN PACIFIC VAR ZONE STOP
AMERICAS CONFILENCE ALSO OUOYED BY THEIR HCPE THAT BRITFLEET
MADITEHRANEANWISE WOULI JOIN FORCES WITH UNISTATESFLEET PAC-
IFICWISE ASSUMING BHITISH WILL ABLE LIVERT PART MEDITERRANEAN
FLEET END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1000
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA E E E K
CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2U3E JULY 1&TH
1130
BT
COPYRIQHT DOMEI 24 MACASSAR 10/7 LML MACASSAR 1&/7 OFFICIALLY
AIRMAIL SERVICE BETWEEN JAPAN CELEBES SOUTHBORNEO LESSER
10
SUNDA AND MOLUCCA ISLANDS WELLS INTERISLAND SERVICE COMMENCED
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NA1
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
13Y
ANAI YST
INDE XED BY
GIFFIN
GMT:
TODAY
PARA 25 MANILA 1E/7 LN1 LAILA 1L/7 LEARNEL OHEN THREETHOU-
SANL RELEASED FILIPINO AR PRIDONERS BEEN EMPLOYED GOVERNMENT
WORKI AND FILIPINO JAPANESE FIAMS BY EFFORTS BUFEAU PUBLIC
WELFALE THROUGH ITS REHABILITATION UNITS STOP UNIERSTOOL FOR
MONTH JUNL HEARLY FOURHUNIHEI EXSOLDIEFS LANDED JOBS NOSTLY
JAPANESE FIRS HEFEIN EXLELLEIT ORKING COLITICNS ACCOUR
ACCOURDEL
PARA 26 SHANGHAI 1L/7 INI SHANGHAI 1&/7 LASAYUJI TANI JAPANESE
AMBASSADOR CHINA HETURNED ANKING TOLAY POSTSOJOURN HERE
DURING WHICH CONFERRED CONVARIOUS OFFICIALS REGARDING ACTUAL
RETURN INTERNATIONAL SETTLELENT NANKING GOVEFNMENTWARD WHICH
SCHEDULED 1/8 L 1/E RETROCESSION FRENCH CONCESSION STOP
TANI BEEN SHANGHAI SINCE YESTERMONTH ETHAD IMPORTANT CON-
FERENCEES CUMDOCTOR CHU MINYI NANKING FORNMINISTER ETFRENCH
AMBASSADOR HENRI COSME REGARDING RETURN FRENCH CONCESSION
NATIONAL GOVERNMENTWARD
PARA 27 SHONAN 1/7 M1 SHONAN 12/7 THOUSANTDS INDIANS UN-
ONLY SHONAN BUT OTHER PARTS MALAI DAILY BESIEGING RECRUIT-
MENT OFFICES WHICH BEEN ESTABLISHED EAGER JO'IN NEWLY FORMED
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
FREQ KC
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXID PY
GMT:
INLIAN NATIONAL ARMY STOP REVEALED NANY APPLYING PROFER-
MISSION JOIN LETTERWISE STOP ALSO IISCLOSII THOUSANIS TELE-
GRAMS ENCOURAGEMENT ALSO LARGE MONETARY LONATIONS POURING
INTO ARMYS HEADQUARTERS STOP UNLEISTOOL NUMBEP VOLUNTEERS
WISHING SERVE INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY KOSE SHARPLY CUMARRIVAL
SHONAN SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE PRESIDENT INIIAN INLEPENDENCE
LEAGUE
PARA 28 TOKYO 1/7 IMI TOKYO 1L/7 NAVALLERS REVIEWING
SIGNAL WARRESULTS ACHIEVEL PARJAPANESE ARMYNAVY FORCES LUR-
ING EIGHTYAYS CONMENCING 3L/6 1MI 3./6 IN RENDOVA NEWGEORGIA
ROBIANA ISLANLS AREAS WELLS IN GULF KULA REVEALED THENTY-
EIGHT ENEMY NAVAL CRAFT INCLUDING TRANSPORTS BUT EXCLULING
NUMBEROUS SMALLER CRAFT SUCHS LANLINC BARGES BEEN SUNK WHILE
MOREN
ONESIXTY PLANES BEEN DORNSHOT STOP REVEALED WARRES-
ULTS MORE DETAILEDLY INCLUDED FOUR ENEMY LIGHT CHUISERS FIVE
LAAGE DESTROYERS ONE DESTROYER ONE SPECIAL SERVICE BOAT ONE
1145
TORPEDO BOAT EIGHT RANSPORTS ETNARSHIP UNDETERHINED CATEGORY
SUNK STOP ADDED ENEMY HEAVILY DAMAGED VESSELS INCLUDED ONE
LIGHT CRUISER ONE DESTROYER ONE TORPEDOBOAT FOUR TRANSPORTS
10
PARA 29 TOKYO 10/7 ML TOKYO 1B/7 WAROFF ICE ANNOUNCED THRONE
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT
WRITE
THIS SPACE
FILE
43
ACTION TAKEN:
181
ALE
FREQ KC
CALL
WlrkS:
FREQKC
OBS
NAT
FREQ KC
T7
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
RY
GRIFFIN
INDE XID HY
ANAI YST
GMT:
F
BEEN INKORMED CITATION BEEN GHANTED TO LATE LIEUTENANT SHIG-
ERU NAKASAKI RPT SHIGERU NAKASAKI ATTnCHEL ISHIKAWA AIUNIT
PROVALOROUS SERVICES RENIERED ON SOUTHCHINA BURAESE INEIAN
FRONTS STOP CITATION ISSUED COINANLER JAPANESE ARNY AIR
FORCES SOUTHERN REGION SUBLATE 29/4 IML 29/4 STOP CITATION
REVEALED LATE LIEUTENANT NAKASAKI LURING THREEMONTHS SINCE
25/1x 1M1 25/1D YESTERYEAR UNTIL 23/1 1M1 23/1 SYEAR OUT-
CARRIED UMEROUS LAPING RAILS ANTIENENY POSITIONS STOP CITA-
TION REVEALED NAKASAKI CHEDITEI CUNDOWNSHOOTING NINE OF
TWENTYSIX ENENY PLANES WHICH ACCRELITED HIS UNITWARD STOP
NAKASAKIS CAREER ABRUPTLY ENDED 23/1 IMI 23/1 WHEN FINLING
N
PLANE BACLY DAMAGED WITH NO CHANCE RETURAING BASE LELIBERATELY
CRASHLIVED INTO ENENY TRANSPORT ON AOF RPT VAOF RIVER END
BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1
2
1155
NM TU DE JUO/JAUZ VA E E E K
9
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
2
NO.26-RSC
DATE 7/9/43WASHINGTON CASE NO.AM
COPY: RECORDING
N MONOLULU T.H.
_OBSERVER_5
FREQUENCY_6335
KC. SENDING TO:CQ
IONA-2RST 585
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENDINB 25-3WPM NO QRM,
QRN, OR FADE
GMT
133
CQ CQ CQ DE JZ@ JZG JZG
1332
V V V V V V V V PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JZG JZG JZG HR BC AT 223
9/7
COPYRIGHT DONEI 42 CANTON 9/7 LEARNED CANTON BRANCH INDIAN
INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE 4/7 SENT CERTAIN NUMBER VOLUMEERS
SHONANWARD TO JOIN RECENTLY ORGANIZED INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY
UNDER LEADERSHIP SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE? SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE
PARA 43 SHONAN 9/7 SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE PRESIDENT INDIAN
INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE AFTERNOON WORSHIPPED AT SOLDIERS MONUMENT
BUKITIMAH HEIGHTS ETALSO SHONAN SHRINE TO REPORT FIRM
DETERMINATION ACHIEVE INDIAN INDEPENDENCE STOP SEVENING ATTENDENT
MAS MEETING MELD FRONT CITYHALL
PARA 44 SHONAN 9/7 WATCHWORD FOREVERY INDIAN IN FUTURE UNTIL
INDIA SUCCEDS ACHIEVEING ITS LBNGCHERISED INDEPENDENCE WILL
QUOTE JAI HIND RPT JAI HIND UNQUOTE MEETING VICTORY FOR INDIA
TWAS DISCLOSED BY INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE STOP SAID SUBHAS
CHANDRA BOSE NEW CHAIRMAN LEAGUE HENCEFORTH WILL *** QUOTE
NEWHAJI RPT NEWHAJI UNQUOTE WHECH INDIAN EQUIVALENT QUOTE LEADER
UNQUOTE
PARA 45 NANKING 9/7 NOTEWORTHY INCREASE IN NUMBER CHUNSKING TROOPS
WHO EITHER TAKEN PRISONERS OR VOLUMTARILY SURRENDERE TO NIPPON
FORCES WAS STRIKINGEST FEATURE IMPERIAL MILITARY OPERATIONS
DURING PAST ONE YEAR ENDING JULY TWAS DISCLOSED IN WEEKLY WAR
REVIEW I8SUED BY HEADQUARTERS IMPERIAL EXPEDITIONARY FORCES

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
26-RSC
_WASHINGTON CASE NO.
RCORDING
NOLULU T.H.
COPY:
JZe
FREQUENCY-6335
CQ
A-2 ROT-505
SIGNAL DEBCRIPTION
TAPE SENDTNG 25-3PWPM.
NO QRM
OR FADE.
CHINA TODAY STOP OUTPOINTING APPROXIMATELY TWOFORTYFIVE
THOUSAND ENEMY TROOPS EITHER VOLUMTARELY SURRENDERED OR WERE
TAKEN PRISONER REVIEW DISCLOSED THIS APPROXIMATLY THREE TIMES
CORRESPONDENCE FIGHTRE FOR PRECEDING ONE YEAR STOP NOTABLE
INCREASE IN AMOUNT WAR TROPHIES WAS ALSO COMMENDED UPON
WITH ANNOUNCEMENT REVEALING NUMBER ARTILLERY PIECES CAPTURED
DOUBLED OVER PREVIOUS YEAR WHILE LIGHT HEAVY MACHINEQUNS
TAKEN INCREASED BY FIFTY PERCENT STOP SAID OTHER ARMS GAINED
BY IMPERIAL FORCES SHOWED SHARP ***WING ABOUT THREE TIME
PRECEDING CORRESPONDING PERIOD STOP SAID THESE DEVELOPMENTS
PLUS INCREADING NUMBER ENEMY TROOPS DESERTING CHUNGKING REGIME
CLEARLY INDICATE DETERIORATION FIGHTING MORAL CHUNGKING FORCES
MAINLY DUE THEIR REALIZATION CHUNGKING REGIME LOST GROUNDS
CONTINUING RESISTANCE AGAINST NIPPON STOP OUTPOINTED CHUNGKING
TROOPS BEEN COMPLETELY ISOLATED FROM ARMS SUPPLY COUTES STOP
REGARDING DEVELOPMENTS PAST WEEK REVIEW RECALLED MOREN TWENTY
UNISTATES FIGHTERS BOMBERS RAIDED CANTON AREA 7/7 BUT
WERE IMMEDIATELY BUT TO ROUT WHEN TWO THEM DOWNSHOT BY IMPERIAL
ARMY FIGHTERS STOP SAID UNISTATES AIRFORCES CHINAWISE RECENTLY
ENGROSSED IN FUTILE ATTEMPT RAID NIPPON HAVE APPAFNTLY PLACED
UNDER THEIR EMENX CENTRAL CHUNGKING AIRBASES AT LINGLING RPT
LINGLING AND LIANGSHAN RPT LIANGSHAN STOP ADDED CHUNGKING AIRFORCE
CONFINING THEMSELVES TO INTBRLAND DISTRICTS SZECHWAN RRX
1354
PROVINCE SINCE UNISTATES AIRFORCES HAVE NOT RPT NOT FURNIBMED
SUPPLIES TO FOMMER STOP (ETC)

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
6.22-28C
DATE7/8/43WASHINGTON CASE NO.
MONOLULU T.H.
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
2
FREQUENCY§335
KC. SENDING TO:_CO
MON A-2 RSTSSS SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENDING SINGLE 28-3PM
O FADE. QRM, OR QRN.
1330
CQ CQ CQ DE JZG JZ& JZG
PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JZG JZG JZG HR NW BC AT 223 8/7
COPYNIGHT DOMEI 48 SHONAN 8/7? 48 SHONAN 8/7 GENERAL IWANE
MATSUI ADVISOR GENERAL HEADQUARTERS GREATER EASTASIA MOVEMENT
TAISEI YOKUSANKAI ARRIVED HERE SOVENING EXBENGKOK COURSE
EXTENSIVE TRIP SOUTHERN REGIONS
PARA 49 SHANGHAI 8/77 49 SHANGHAI 8/7 SOTARO ISHIWATA RRT
SOTARO ISHIWATA SUPPREME ECONOMIC ADVISER NATIONAL GOVTCHINA
ARRIVED HERE EXNANKING TODAY STOP UNDERSTOOD ISHIWATA LEAVING
HERE FOR TOKYO AFTER FEW DAYS CONSULTATION WITH CHINEBE
ECONOMIC LEADERS HERE
PARA 5? 5 EITORS CORRECTION ITEM 45? 45 WORD MORNING
IN LEAD SHOULD READ 5/7 RPT 5/7
PARA 51 TOKYO 8/7? 51 TOKYO 8/7 EARLY EDITIONS VERNACULAR
MORNINGERS PROMINENTLY FRONTPAGED SHONAN DISPATCHES ALSO
IMPRESSIVE PHOTOGRAPHS DEPICTING MILITARY REVIEW INDIAN
NATIONAL ARMY STOP ASAHI MAINICHI PUBLISHED QUARTERPAGE
PHOTOGRAPHS WITH SHONAN MUNICIPALITY BUILDING PARTLY BACKGROUND
WIDE SQUARE FRONTWISE THICKLY PACKED WITH INDIAN VOULUNTERRS
UPDRAWN DOUBLE SINGLE FILES ALL WHEREOF NEWLY UNIFORMED WELL
EQUIPPED MODERN ARMS STOP PRESS ALSO DIBPLAYED CLOSEUPS INDIAN
NATIONAL FLAG ETSHOTS SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE SURROUNDED BY ELITE
GUARD
PARA 52 SHONAN 8/77 52 SHONAN B/7 DI8CLOSED PREMIER HIDEKI

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.97)
HONOLULU T.H.
22-RBC
DATE 7/8/43
OBSERVER
COPY:
BECARRING
DIRECT
JZO
FREQUENCY6335
KC. SENDING TO:CQ
ON A-2 RST 585 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENDING SINGLE 28-3WPM.
NO FADE, QRM, OR QRN.
TOJO REVIEWED INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY HEADED BY SUBHAS CHANDRA
BOSE PRESIDENT OF INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE EASTASIA MORNING
6/7? 6/7 STOP ON DAY TOJOS INSPECTION ARMY IN FULL DRESS
FORMED ON PARADE GROUND BEFORE SHONAN SPECIAL MUNICIPAL OFFICE
112? 112 WITH SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE AT HEAD TO AWAIT ARRIVAL
DISTINGUSHED VISITOR STOP FOR CHANDRA BOSE OCEASION WAS OF
PARTICULAR SIGNIFICANCE AS HEABOUT MEET PREMIER AS PRESIDENT
INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE AND CONCURRENTLY AS LEADER
NEWLY ORGANIZED INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY STOP MEANWHILE YOUTHFUL
TROOPERS THEMSELVES WHO ABOUT HONORED WERE TENSE BUT JOYFUL
WITH EXPECTION STOP TWAS AMIDST SUCH ATMOSPHERE PREMIER TOJO
ARRIVED ON SCENE WITH AIDDECAMP EN ATTENDANCE STOP FOLLOWING
BOSES ADDRESS WELCOME (REFOR ETEM 46) INDIAN MILITARY BAND PLAYED
MARTIAL TUNE AND INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY PERFORMED MARCHPAST
STOP AFTER BRIEF REST IN COMPANY OBSE TOJO LEFT NOON AMIDST
1347
HEARTY SENDOFF BY BOTH ARMY AND WELLWISHED

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.96)
DATE 9/1/43
_WASHINGTON CASE NO..
COPY:
FREQUENCY2
KC. SENDING TO:
133
CQ CQ CQ DE JZG JZ 
VE VE VE PRESS PRE88 DE JZ6 JZ6 JZE HR NW BC AT 223 JULY
7TH COPYRIGHT DOMEI 46 MANILA T/T? MANILA 7/T NIPPON MILITARY
AUTHORITIES ANNOUNCED THREE TERRORIISTS LED BY BEVERINO GO
RPT BEVERINO GO WHO MURDERED CHENG HANCHI RPT CHENG HANCHI
VICECMAIRMAN CHINESE RESIDENTS SOCIETY HERE LATE AFTERNOON
21VE6 21/67 21/6 WERE ARRE8TED 2/77 2/7 STOP SA1D THEY
PRESENTLY BEING CROSS EXAMINED PARNIPPON BENDARMERIE MERE
PARA 47 BYLINE MAGONEI TANAKA RPT MAGOMEI TANAKA WAR CORRESPONDENT
ATTACHED IMPERIAL NAVY JAPANESE BABE NEW GUINEA T/T? NEW GUINEA
7/7 ECONOMIC CONSTRUCTION NEW QUINEA TOWARD GOAL SELFBUFFICIANCEY
FOODSTUFFB ETENCREABED PRODUCTION OTHER PRODUCTS RAPIDLY
PROGRESSING STOP SINK OR SWIM FIGHTING NOW GOING ON NEW GUINEAWIZE
EVERY SECOND AGAINST ANGLOAMERICANS STOP S IMULTEANEGUBLY CUMWAR 
OPFRATIONS PRODUCTION WAR BEING OUTCARRIED PROCOKSTRUCTION
INVINCIBLE BABE AGAINST BRITUNISTATES STOP NEW GUINEA
NAVAL ADMINSTRATION AFTER COMPLETION EXPLORATIONS INVESTIGATIONS
ETEXPERIMENTAL PRODUCTION RICE VEGETABLES PLANNED PRODUCTION
PROGRAM DESIGNED FOR BEECURING MILITARY SUPPLIES ON SPOT STOP
PRODUCTION PROGRAM BEEN STARTED CUAMOBILIZATION TWONUNDRED
THOUBAND NATIVE INMABITANTS STOP CHIEF AMONG PROJECTS TOBE
OUTCARRIED UNDER FOREGOING PAGGRAN ARE FIRSTLY MINING COAL
ETMANGANESE GRES SEGONDLY PLANTING RICE ETVEGETABLES ON ALRE
GULTIVATED LANDG THIRDLY TUNY ETBONITO

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.95)
DATE//43WASHINGTON CASE NO.
OBSERVER
COPY:
ROORDING
2a
FREQUENCY_KC. SENDING TO:
QRNNO FADE
FISHING ETTHEIR PROCESBING FOURTHLY LUMBERING ETSHIPBUELDING
FIFTNLY TAPPING DAMMAR RESIN EXTRACTION COPPA OIL ETMAMUFACTURE
SOAP STOP SINCE NATIVE INHABITANTS LIVING STANDARD LOW ETBAPPE
DIET OBTAINED EXSAGO PALM ETOTHER NATIVE PRODUCTS CUMPLENTIFUL
SUPPLY FISH ETVEGETABLES ONLY NEED INORDER ASSURE FOODSUPPLY
18 INCREASE RICE PRODUCTION STOP POLICY BEING FOLLOWED UTILIZE
LOCAL LABOR MACH AS POSSIBLE PROLOCAL PRODUCTION EARLY
AS POSSIBLE STOP FOR INSTANCE SALT 18 MANUFACTURED PARBOILING
SEAWATER CUMWOOD AS FUEL STOP CAUSTIC SODA PRODUCT EXSALT ET
MIXED CUNCOPRA OIL TO PRODUCE EXCELLENT SOAP STOP PRODUCTION
SALT ETSOAP ON BIG SCALE POSSIBLE DUE ABUNDANCE NATURBAL
GAS ETCOPRA OIL STOP NATIVE CARPENTERS WILL MOBILIZED CONSTRUCTI
WOODEN VESSELS ON LARGE SCALE STOP (ETC)

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.98)
29-R8C
DATE9/10/49
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
RECORDING
NONOLULU T.H.
OBSERVER
COPY:
FREQUENCY
KC. SENDING TO:
CQ
A2
RST-505
QRN, AND SLIGHT FADE.
133 CQ CQ CQ DE JZG JZG JZG
1331
VE VE VE PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JZG JZG JZG HR NW VC AT 2230
JULY 10
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 51 1D/6 MANILA? 10/6 MANILA LEARNED MOREN
THREETHOUSAND RELEASED FILIPINO WAR PRISONERS BEEN GIVEN
EMPLOYMENT GOVERNMENT WORKS WELLS IN FILIPINO? FILIPINO
BY EFFORTS BUREAU PUBLIC WELFARE THROUGH ITS REHABILITATION
UNITS STOP UNDERSTOOD YESTERMONTH NEWLY FOURHUNDRED EXSOLDIERS
PROVIDED JOBS MOSTLY WITH NIPPON FIRMS WHEREIN THEY ACCORDED
EXCELLENT WORKING CONDITIONS
PARA 52 CEBU 1/7? CEBU 1/7 REVEALED PENDING APPROVAL BY
LOCAL MILITARY ADMINISTRATION TWO MIDDLE SCHOOLS ONE FOR BOYS
OTHER FOR GIRLS VILL OPENED HERE STOP BUREAU EDUCATION OF CEBU
MUNICAPALITY ALREADY APPROPRIATED NECESSARY EXPENDITURES FOR
OPENING TWO SCHOOLS STOP COURSES NEW SCHOOLS WILL INCLUDE
NIPPONGO WHICHLL TAUGHT ONE OR TWO HOURS WEEKLY WHILE ENGLISH
WILL COMPLETELY ELIMINATED
PARA 53 SHANGHAI 1/7? SHANGHAI 1/7 COMPLETING NEGOTIATIONS
ON PROBLEM RENDITION INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT FRECH CONCESION
SHANGHAI MASAYUKI TANI? MASAYUKI TANI NIPPON AMBASSADOR CHINA
LEFT NANKINGWARD TRAINWISE SEVENING ACCOMPANIED MEMBERS HIS SUITB
STOP RECALLED TANI CAME SHANGHAI YESTE***DH BEEN MAKING
HENRI COSME FRENCH AMBASSIDOR CHINA WELLS OTHER AUTHORIZED

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONG
TO THE SECRETARY
LY. CHAIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE. SECRETARV
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
ENRY PAYNE
CRAVEN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
C. WAKEFIELD
July 20, 1943
.J. DURR
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
MR
BCRI
File 12718
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
894.76/140
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Berle:
Attached herewith are additional copies of
894.16
Domei Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
Very truly yours,
6-1943
FILED
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Attachments
nfidential File
LF
gen file
JUL
PORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
LAVINGS
BONDS

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.97)
35RSC
DATE712/43WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
HONOLULU, T.H.
OBSERVER615
COPY:
RECORDING
JHL/JUPS
FREQUENCY17
NON
A-2 RST 477 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION AUTO 25 WPM NO QRM NO QRN
1336
BC AT 223 JULY 12TH DOMEI 42 (ZENBINTUZUK1) IJOONOGOTOKI SENPAKU
KOOTAISINO KINKUII SEIBINIYORI WAGAKUNI KAIUNTOOBEIWA DAITOOAWA
SENSOOMENO JIJITOOSEIKARA SAKUNEN YONAGATUIKOONO KOKKA TOOSEIJIDAIO
HETEWA KAIJOO YUSOORYOKU ZOOKYOOJOO MOTOMO KINYOOSISARERU GYOOSHANO
KIGYOOSINTO SEKININKANNENWO KYOKUDONI HAKYISIMENTO SURUMONODE KOR-
ENIYOTTE KOKKANO YOOSEITA ZEKANNO SOOITOGA KONZEN ITTAITONATE SIKK-
OODONO NOORITUOHAKYISI MOTTEGANKA SENRYAKUZOOKYOONO KAKUSINTARUBEKI
YUSOORYOKUNO KAKKITEKI ZEOOKYOOWO KANSURSUR UMOTO KITAISARERU
1339
43 (JUUIJIGOO8OO 41 SANSHOO) (INKOOJITUMUSHA) SENPUWUN KOKINKYUU-
SEIBI YOORYOONI MOTOZUKU UNKOO JITUMUSHAWA TEIKISENKANKEINO OOSAKA-
SHOOSEN TOOAKAIUN NANYOOKAIUN NIHONKAIKSEN CHOOSENYUUSENNC ROKUSHA*
FUTUEKESEN KAIKEIDWZ MITUISENPAKU YAMASITAKISEN KAWASAKITISEN TATU-
MAKISEN (JUNISNOTATU UMA) KUIBAYASI (KURINOKI HAYASI) (SHOSEN)
ITIOO KURIBAYSI SHOOSENTOSURUMU SKNOONOUE TORIATUKAI JITUMUSHAO
KETTEISU NISSANKISEN TOOWAKISEN (HIGASNGOYAKA) NAKAMURAKISENNO
HATISHA YUSOOSENKANKEI (ABURA) (IINOKAIUN) (MESINOKHARA) NITIOOKISEN
(TUKIHI HIGASI) MITUBISIKISEN ISIHARAKAIUN KYOODOOKIGYOONO GOSHA
TOKUSHIKANKEI DAIRENKISEN DNONESTU (SEIZO**) NISHANI SHUUYAKUHARERU
1344
$44.

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
6.32-R8C
HONOLULU T.H.
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
JZG
FREQUENCY6835
BION A-2 RST 575 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENDING 25-SSWPM. NO FADING.
NO QRM OR QRN.
GMT
1330
CQ CQ CQ DE JZG JZG JZG
1331
VVV PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JZG JZG JZG HR NW BC AT 223 11/7
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 29 DJAKARTA 11/7? 29 DJAKARTA 11/7 LEARNED
THIRTY LOCAL YOUTHS BEEN SELECTED TOBE TRAINED SEAMEN AT
DJAKARTA SEAMENS TRAINING INSTITUE STOP RECALLED FIRST GROUP
YOUTHS ADMITTED YESTERAPRIL WHILE FOR PRESENT ENROLLMENT
NEARLY TWOHUNDRED APPLICATIONS RECEIVED BY INSTITUTE STOP
AFTER REGULAR COURSE TRAINING YOUTHS EXPECTED TOBE EMPLOYED
LOCAL COASTAL MARINE TRANSPORT SERVICE STOP ANOTHER TRAINING
INSTITUTE WILL FOUNDED 1/8? 1/8 AT SEMARANG MEET INCREASING
DEMAND FOR SEAMEN
PARA 30 LISBON 11/7? 30 LISBON 11/7 REPORTED EXANKARA TURKISH
SYRIAN BORDER AGAIN BEEN CLOSED WHILE TELEPHONE COMMUNICATION
BETWEEN BULGARIA TURKEY REPORTEDLY BEEN CUT
PARA 31 BUENOSAIRES 1/7? 31 BUENOSAIRES 1/7 EXWASHINGTON
UNISTATES GOVERNMENT FRANTICALLY PUSHING APPLICATION OF
CONNALLY SMITH ANTISTRIKE LAW NORDER CHECK WIDESPREAD STRIKE
PENNSYLVANIA SOFT COAL MINERS WHICH NOW REACHED SERIOUS
PROPORTIONS PARALYZING WAR PRODUCTION STOP REVEALED ATTORNEY
FRANCIS BIDDLE ASKED FOR FULL REPORT ON MOVEMENT HEREIN
ROVING BANDS PICKETS SPREAD WILDCAT WILKOUT TO MOREN SCORE
MINES EMPLOYING TWELVETHOUSAND MINERS STOP LEARNED ONLY FEW
THOUSAND MINERS RETURNED WORK MINES FOLLOWING GOVERNMENT THREATS
OUTCARRY STIFFER MEASURES STOP MEANWHILE LATE REPORTS FROM
EN
LAFAYETTE COUNTRY FIELD CENTER BIBCLOSE PRESETLY MIMERS

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.95)
B2-R8C
HONOLULU T.H.
DIRECT
OBSERVER58
COPY:JRICOBDUNG
JZG
FREQUENCY6335
A-2
RST575
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENDING 25-28WPM. NO FADING,
MOQRN OR QRM.
REVOLTING AGAINST ORDERS THEIR NATIONAL OFFICERS AND VIRTUALLY
EVERY MINE DISTRICT BEING PICKETED ON TWENTYFOUR HOUR BASIS
STOP OBSERVERS PREDICTED ENTIRE AREA WITH TWENTYTWO THOUSAND MEN
BE CLOSED TNGHT BY NEXTWEEK WELLS MAN LARGE NEARBY MINES IN
DISTRICT

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.97)
634-RSC
DATE 7/12/43
MONOLULU.T.H.
OBBERVER695
COPY:
DIRECT
JZ
FREQUENCY33
ION A2
_RST475
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION AUTO 18 WPM NO QRM QRN
MT
1327
CQ CQ CQ DE JZG JZG JZG NW
1333
PRES8 DE JZG BC AT 2230 JULY 12TH BT COPYRIGHT DOMEI BT
41 HAN01 12/7
FRENCH INDOCHINA AUTHORITIES ANNOUNCED UNISTATES AIRFORCE CHINA
YESTERDAY RAIDEB TONGKONG AREA. ALSO AIRFORCE ONCE AGAIN
APPEARED OVER TONGKING AREA ON 11/7 AND BOMBED MACHINEGUNNED
LAOKAI AREA AND COASTAL REGIONS KILLING TWO FRENCH WOUNDING
FOUR NATIVE SENTRIES PARA
42 SHONAN 12/7
BA MAW HEAD BURMA GOVERNMENT ON 5/7 FOLLOWING ARRIVAL PREMIER
TOJO CALLED PREMIER AT HIS QUARTERS TO OFFER THANKS FOR NIPPONS
PROMISES INDEPENDANCE FOR BURMA  WELLS MANY OTHER ACTS FRIEND-
SHIP STOP PREMIER TOJO AND BANMA THEN DISCUSSED FOR HALFHOUR
MATTERS CONCERNING FURTHER BOLSTERING OF NIPPON BURMESE
134
COOPERATION FOR SUCCESSFUL PROSECUTION GREATER EASTASIA
WAR PARA

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
143
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALIF
34g
OES
FREQ KC
1320
FREQ KC
NAT
RESS
TT
FREQ KC
2
589
20
(MI
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
IMN
823
INDEXED RY
ANAIYST
GMT:
HR NW BC AT 11B
P
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 17 TOKYO 14/7 PAIRCT JAIYANAMU RPT AAIROT
JAIY ANAMA DIRECTOR PUBLICITY BUREAU THAI GOVERNMENT PRICH-
ANUSAT PANYARACHUN RPT PRICHANUSAT PANYARACHUN PRESIDENT
3
THSI PRESS ASSOCIATION ARRIVED 15 OFFICIAL VISIT JAPAN AT
A
INVITATION EIJI AMAU PRESIDENT DOVRD INFORMATION STOP VISITORS
SCHEDULED REMAIN TOKYOWISE UNTIL JULY TWENTYEIGHT INSPECTING
MILITARY INDUSTRIEL ESTABLISHMENTS WHEREAFTER WILL TOUR
U
KANSAI CITIES ALSO KYUSHW ISLAND SOUTHERN JAPAN STOR MEAN-
WHILE THAI AMBASSADOR NAI DIRECK JAIYANAMA SPECIAL STATE-
MENTWISE OCCASION TOJOS RETURN EXSOUTH DESCRIBED PREMIERS
VISIT BANGKOKWARD QUOTE UNPRECEDENTED IMPORTANCE IN THAILANDS
LONG HISTORY UNQUDTE AFTER VOIONG GRATITUDE PROTHAI BORDER
ADJUSTMENTS REQUOTE DESPITE GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSE WHICH SEPARATES
( )
DUR TWO PEOPLES THEY SHARE COMMON IDEALS CCMMON DESTINY IN
s
1
STRUGGLE PROSSIATIC LIBERATION UNQUOTE PA
2
M
3
PARA 18 KANILA 14/7 ? 18 MANAILA 14/7 EVEN MOST GULLIBLE
LAYMEN AMAZED AT CLUMSINESS AMERICAN PROPAGANDA WHICH TRIES
QUOTE INSERT RDUND PEG OF PROPAGANDA PRODUCED IN OFFICE INTO
SQUARE HOLE THEIR SCTUAL ACHIEVEMENTS BAMMLEWISE UNQUOTE
10
DECLARED FILIPINO COMMENTATOR IN TALIBA INFLUENTIAL TAGALOG
TO UNTE:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
10
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FILE
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
PY
823
INDEXFD BY
ANALYST
GMT:
DAILY STOP DECLARED QUOTE IF AMERICANS INSIST UPON PROPAGANDA
BASED ON FALSE REPORTING THEY OUGHT LEASTLY DO IT CUMSUFFICIENT
SKILL PARAVODING GLARING SELFEVIDENT CONTRADICTIONS UNQUOTE
STOP OUTPOINTED ANTIAXIS PEPORTS ISSUED B/7 ON SOLOMONS
BATTLE AFFORD TYPICAL EXAMPLE MANUFACTURED LIES AMERICANS
STOP SAID WHILE UNIPRES REPORTED AMEPICAN FLEET HICH
PARTTOOK KULA SEABATTLE NUMERICALLY INFERIOR TC JAPANESE
FLEET REUTERS DECLARED AMEPICAN FLEET NUMERICALLY SUPERIOR
STOP QUOTE WHICH IS IT QUERYMARK UNQUOTE COMMENTATOR ASKED
STOP ON OTHER HAND JAPANESE IWPERIAL HEADQUARTERS ANNOUNCE-
MENTS EXPLICIT ETTO POINT COMMENTATOR ASSERTED ADDING
JAPANESE COMMUNIQUES FROM 7/7 TO 13/7 TALLIED IN EVERY POINT
CUMSUMMARY WARRESULTS OF ENEMY WARSHIPS SUNK WHICH INCLUDED
ONE LIGHT CRUISER SANTAFE TYPE DNE LARGESIZE DESTROYER
STRONG TYPE ONE WARSHIP OF UNDETERMINED CATOGORY ONE IGHT
CRUISER HELENA TYPE ONE LIGHT CRUISER UNDETERMINED TYPE
ETONE SPECIAL SERVICE SHIP STOP SAID IN CONTRAST DEFINITE
AFRNESE JAJAPNESE ANNOUNCEMENTS ANTIAXIS HEADQUARTERS
ANNOUNCED DAMAGE SUFFERED PARJAPANESE FLEET QUOTE ASSUMED
BE FAIRLY LARGE UNQUOTE WHILE NEXTDAY SAME HEADQUARTERS
10
ASSERTED SIX JAPANESE QUOTE WARSHIPS UNQUOTE WERE QUOTE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.98)
REE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
77
FREQ KC
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
NAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS
823
INDEXED BY
ANAIYST
GMT:
PROBABLY UNQUOTE SUNK STOP SAID QUOTE USE SUCH CONVENIENTLY
VAGUE EXPRESSIONS ASS SUBQUOTE WARSHIPS UNSUBQUOTE WHICH
SIMPLY FIGHTING VESSEL IS SHAMEFULLY AMATEURESH ETCLSIMS
WHICH CANNDT BE CONFIRMED BY ANYTHING MORE DEFINITE THANN
THAN TERM SUBQUOTE PROBABLY UNSUBQUOTE ARE RIDICULDUS AT
BEST UNQUOTE STOP COMMENTATOR RECALLED SAMETIME UNISTATES
NEVY DEPARTMENT COMMUNIQUE 2/6 WHICH ADMITTED LOSE ONE-
HUNDREDONE WARSHIPS SINCE BEGINNING WAR STOP OUTPOINTED THIS
TOTAL SURPRISING SINCE NUMBER NEARLY TWICH TOTAL LOSS
CALCULATED ON BASIS PEICEMEAL ANNOUNCEMENTS AMERICAN LOSSES
PARNAVY DEPARTMENT STOP EMPHASISED QUOTED THIS UNISTATED
NAVY DEPARTMENT ITSELF REVEALED ITS A*USE PUBLIC CONFIDENCE
ETITS EFFORTS HIDE CXAMERICANS REAL NAVAL LOSSES BY INDIS-
CREETLY ANNDUNCING ITS REVISED ADMISSION OF TOTAL NUMBER
WARSHIPS UNISTATEX LOST SINCE OUTBREAK WAR UNQUOTE STOP
B
1
CONCLUDED QUOTE HAFITUAL VAGUENESS AMERICAN COMMUNIQUES
2
3
WHICH ONBASED MIXTURE HALFTRUTHS ETDOWNRIGHT FALSEHODDS
4
CONTRASTS GLARINGLY CUMCAREFUL ACCURATE THORDUGHLY SUTHEN-
TICATED IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS COMMUNIQUES WHICH TELL NOTHING
9
BUT TRUTH UNQUOTE END BT
10
FURUNO DOMEI AR
 TU DE JUO/JAU2 
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.94)
6. 29 HAP
DATE9/13/4
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
Bomalulu, T. H.
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
JUP/JUQ
FREQUENCY
13065
KC. SENDING TO:
CQ
SION
A1RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
Tape25 PSo QRM
MT
32
SN SN PRESS PRESS DE JUP / JUQ HR NW BC AT 2230 JULY 1308 BT
DOMEI TOOJOOSNUBMOOWA TAIKOKU PIBUNSHUSHOOIKA DOOKOKU YOORONO HITOBITOTO
KONDANSURUTO TOMONI NAPOO SHOTIYIKINO SISATUOWOKONAI TERAUTI SOOSIREIKANWO
HAJDME GENTINI KATUYAKU SITUTUARU KOOGUNSHOO HEI OYOBI KANMINNOROOKUO
NEGIRAUTAME SARUROKUGATUS NJAUSI TOOKYOOWO SHUPP*U TAIKOKU NARABINIM
NANPOO SHOTIYIKINI SHUCCHOOSITGTI GAKOKU TOOCHAKUIRAI PIBUNSHUSHOOTO SITASIKU
A
HIZAOMAJIETE DAITOOIKENSETU HOOSAKUMIKANSI KONDANWOWOKANAI TAIKOKUTANENNO
KIBOOTARU KYOOIKIOYOBI NITITAI KYOORIOKUNI KANSURU JUUYOONARU KYOOGIOTOGE
MATA SHOONANNI ITATTEWA TERAUTI SOOGIREIIAN IKATO SITASIKU KONDANWO
OBONAOTOTOMONI NANPOOGUNNO GUNJOOWO SISATUSI KATUR KAIGUN SHOOHEDNO
ROOKUONEGIRAI SARANITOOKU SUMATORA BORUNEO JAWANDMO KYOHOWCSUSUME X
KAKUTIGUNJOO OYOBI JUUMINNO JITUJOOWO SISATUSI FUTATABI HITOONITATIYORI
SHOKINO MOKUTEKIO TODOKOORINAKU TASSI JUUNIHIGOGO TOOKYOOE KICHAKUSITA
KONOAIDAWAZUKA JUUSANHINO SHUCCHOODEWA ATTAGA TAIKOKUNIATTEWA NITITAI
KYOORYOYUI KXISURU ARATANARU MOOSIKIO UMIDASI KNO KAIDANNIYOTTE NITITAI
 RIOOKOKYUO SOOGORIKAI SINRAINODO IIOIYOFUKAMARI RYOOKOKUOTUNAGU
JINTAIWA MASUMASU KYOOKOTNARI DAITOOASENSOO KANSUINI MAIS INSURU RYOOKOKU
KOKKOONI HIEKISURUTOKORO KIWAMETE DAISARUMONOGA ATTA SITAGATTE
KONJISHUSHOONO TAIKOKU NARABINI NANPOOGUNSEI SHOTIYIKI SHUCCHOOWA
SARUSANGATUIRAI CHUUKAMINKOKU MANSHUUKOKU NARABINI HUTOO OOMONTO AWASETE
DAITOOASENSOONO KANSUITO DAITOOA KENSETUNO MOKUTEKITO HOOTOWO KYOOKON
MONOTOSI KONGO DAITOOA XYOOE IKEHNO MEISHUTOS ITE SONOS IDOOTEKI
TAT IRANTOITE KAKURITUSUBEKI GUTAITEK INA KENSETU HOOSAKUNO JURITULI LSS INI
SISURUTOKORO DW

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.96)
29 LA-P
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
JUp/JUQ
FREQUENCY 13065
KC. SENDING TO:
ION
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
IMT
-2-
PARA MARUMARUKITI DOOMEI SORONONGUNTOO KORONBANGARATOO OYOBI
NYUUJOOJIATOO MUNDANOOMENNI OKERU TIKINOHUNGZKIWA RENJITU SIRETUKASI
WAGARIKUKAIGUN HOOMINBUTAIWA SONOTUDO MISSETU KYOOKONARU KYOORYOKUNIYORI
KORENITETUIO KUDASI DAISONGAIO ATAETKIRUGA IZEN KAZUOTANOMU TEKIHEIRYOKUWA
OTOROLZU DOOHOOMENNI OKERU RUSKHUUMO TEKIKIWA HATIHI OYOBI KUHINORYOOHINI
SORKZORE WANAJIKKI JUUHIYAKU HYAKKDNADO HIOWOOTEBAIKAI KORENITAISI
WAGAHOOWA TLJOOHOOKAO MOTTE OOSEN KOBONBANGARANI ATTEWA HATISI WAGA
TIJOOHOOKANI YORI KIUUKIOGEKITEUI MUNDAHOOMENDEWA SANKIOGEKITUISI TEKIKINIYORU
WAGAHOONO SONGAIWA KIWAMETE KEIBIDEARIX  KOOKUUBUTAIWA NYUUJOOJLATOO
SHUUHKNNO RURAINATOO KURAWAN RENDORAKOO HOOMENNTOKERU TEKINITADAINO SONGAIO
K
ATAKNTUTUARU PARA BANKOKMU MAINIT ITOKUDEN TAIKOKUDEWA IMAYA ZENSISZENRYOKUO
AGETE DAITOOA KYOOEDKENNO TAMENI SHOKURYOONO ZOOSANNI HAGENDEIRUGA HOONNKNWA
KOOTENNI MEGUN RE SONOUENI NIKLSAKUNIOITE TOSOOLJOONO ZOOSANNC ATOWOM ISETA
SUNAWATI NINMOOSAKUNO DIYITIKIWA SARU ITIGATUNI HAJIMARI GOGATUNI OWATTAGA
SONO SHUUKAKUDAKAWA TOOHOKUBUDE HXAKUSANJUUMAN SANZENSANBBIKU
YONJUUKYUPIKURU (SAKUNENDO KYUUJUUROKUMAN SANBYAKU GOJUUGOPDKURU
ITIPIKURUWA ROKUJIKKIRO) (HUUBU MENAMURYUUIK IDE HUNIJUUMAN GOSENSANBYAKU
HATIJUUNANA PIKURUNO (SAKUNNFNDO GO UUMAN SUNZENSANBYAKU YONJUUGOPIKURU)
GEKIZOOBURIDE ATTA PARA DA IHONYEI HUPPIOO (*JUPPHI) TENKOKUKAIGUN
KOOKUUBUTAIWA SITIGATUKUHI CHUUNUN RENDOHAKOO JOOKUUNISATTOO TEK INLI IKKITO
KOSENSI SONOGOKIO GEKITUI JOORIKYOO SHUITEI ROKUSEKIO GEKITINSI SITIGIU
UUITIHI HARANI SENBAKURENGOO HENTALOMOTTE NTUUJOOJ LATOO SEJHOKUGANNI
YOOR UA GHUUNO TEK TOROOGEKISI TEKI PLISANJUUHUTI SENTOOKI YONI IKKINO
NAKUNI KUNOENTOTUNTUU NIJUUTONKIO GEKITUISERI WAGAHOO MLLINANSUNK
ARA AR NM TU (1407)

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FREQ KC
WTHS
LU, T.N. 28
FREQ KC
/JUQ
13C
NAI
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FE
40025
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDLLATORS:
AUTOMATIC KEYING. NO
QRM OR QRN.
INDE XID PY
ANALYST
GMT:
133& CQ DE JUP/JUQ
1331 PRE8S DE JUP/JUQ
BC AT 2230 JULY 12TH BT
DOEI SHOONANDOOMEI JUUNISHOONANSI KOONANKURABUNI OITE OKONAWARETA
SUBASU BOOSUSITO KISHADANTONO ITIMONYITTOO TUGINOGOTOSI TOI
RINJISEIFUO JURITUSURU ITOWOYUUSURU TONOKOTODAGA SONOHOOSAKU
IKAN KOTAE YOWA ZENYINDOJINNO SOORYOKUDOOINWO SUROOGANTO
SITEKITSGA INDOKOKUNAINO DOOSINI KOWOOSITE GAIBUYORINO TOOEITOOS
OOWO WAREWAREWA DAINISENSENTO YOBITAI SONO DAINISENSENWO
YUUKOOTEKINI JITUGEN SURUTAMENIWA KYOOROKUNARU SOSIKIGA HITUYOODE
ARU WAREWAREWA KONOSOSIKIO JIYUUINDO RINJISEIFUTO YOBITAI KONO
SEIFUWA HEIJINO SEIFUDEWANAKU TATAKAUTAMENO SEIFUDEARU KONOSEIFUN
KOODOOGA SEIKOOSITE INDOKARA EIKOKUO KUTIKUSITA TOKIWA INDONIWA
EIKYUUTEKI SEIFUGA TUKURARENEBA NARANUGA SONOSAIWA RINJISEIFUWA
( )
HATTENTEKI KAISHOOWO TOGERUKOTOWA MOTIRONDEARU TOI RINJISEIFUWA
INKANARU KIKOOSOSIKIO YUUSURUMONOKA KOTAE KOREWAMOKKA KEIKAKUCHUUN
-O MONODEARUKARA KAKUTARU OKOTAEWA DEKINUGA AKUMADEMO TATAKAUTAMENO
SEIFUDEARUKARA KONOSEIFUNIWA HEIWATEKINA BUKYOKUWA ISSAIHITUYOONAI
TOI INDOJINNO SOORYOKUO DOOINSURU BUTAITEKI JISSENHOOSIN IKAN
10
KOTAE TOOANO INDOJINNO SOORYOKUO DOOINSURUNIWA MAZU DOKURITU
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FREQ KC
LULU, T.H.
FREQ KC
/
NAT
FRECKC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
MN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
AUTONATIC KEYING.
NO QM OR QRN
INDFXIDHY
ANAI YST
GMT:
RENNEI-
JSONBUNO SIDOORYOKUO KYOOKASURUTO TOMONI DOKURITU RENMEISIBUON
KYOOKAMATAWA ZOOSEITUSITE KAKYUUTEKI SUMIYAKANARU SOODOODOOINWO
HAKARU TOOAINDOJIN SOORYOKUDOOINWA GENZAINO SOSIKINI SHUDOOTEKI
YAKUWARIO ENZESME HITUYOOARABA KAKUDAISITEYUKU MATA FUJINGUNWOMO
SOSIKISITE ROOJAKUDANJONO ZENYINDOJINGA HOOCHOOWO AWASETE DOKURITU
TASSEINI MAISINSENTO SURUMONODEARU TOI INDO COKUMINGUNNI TAISURU
SHOKANYIKAN KOTAE INDO KOKUMINGUNWA KUNRENNIYORI TAKUMASISAO
MASITEIRUTO DOOJINI SEISINTEKI KUNRENNIYOTTE HIJOONASINPOWO
TOGETEIRU KOKUMINGUNNO SHOOHEIWA HITOSIKU DOKURITU TASSEINO
134S NETUJOOWOMOTI MAINITI MOOKUNRENWO JISSISITEIRU KONGOISSOONO
MOOKUNRENWO TUZUKETEYUKU TUMORIDEARU TOI MARUMANNO GUNTAIGA
HITUYOOTO IWARETAGA SONOHOOSAKUIKAN KOTAE MARUMANNO GUNTAIWA
ZEHI HITUYOODEARU KOREWA KINDAITEKINA GUNTAITOKASI EIKOKUGUNTO
( )
TAITOONI TATAKAIURU NOMINARAZU EIKOKUGUNWO HASAISURUDAKENO
JITURYOKUO YOOSEISURU KANGAEDEARU TOI KORENITUIDE IPPANMINSHUUNI
2
NANIKA KUNRENWO HODOKOSU IKOOWANAIKA KOTAE SORENIWA FUTATUNO
1348 HOOHOOWO KANGAETE
9.
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.97)
PAGE-1
36-R8C
DATE7/13/43WASHINGTON CABE NO.
HONOLULU ToM.
_OBSERVER1
COPY:
NL/JUPS
FREQUENCY-8195
_RST-58年
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION 25 WPM TAPE NO QRM OR QRN
1384 BC AT 2230 JULY 13TH
DOMEI 48 SUUJIKUSINZEN SOKUS INNE NISHOKANSEI FUKUOKAHATU BUNKAOT-
UUJITENO SINZEN SOKUSINWO MOKUHYOONI SHOOWAJUGONEN SETURITUBARETA
KYUUSHUU KOSUSAIBUNKA KYOOKAIDEWA JUURAI KYUUSHUUTEIDAI KAKUKYOOJUO
CHUUSINTOSETE BUNKASIRYOONO SHUUSHUUKOOKANWO TOGE BUNKAKOOZA KOOEN-
KAINADONI YOTTE KAPPATUNA KATUDOOWO TUZUKETEKITAGA IPPOO TOOZAIBUN-
KANI KANSURI CHOJITUTI HANYAKUNIMO CHAKUSHUSI SAIKIN NINENGOSINI
SEKIGAKU KAIBARACONNO KOOEI KYUUDAI IGAKUBU JOKYOOJU KAIBARAMORIITI
(MAMORUHITOTU) NIYORU (YOOJOOKUN YASINAUIKIRU SATOSU) NODOKUYAKUTO
DOO HOOBUNGAKUBU SINTOOSIIT (SUSUMUFUJINOKI MAKOTOHITOTU) (KYOOJUNO
) KADOO HANAYAKAMITE FUTUYAMAKU G&DKOOSI SORIZORE MEIHOODOITUTO FUR-
ANSUGO KOKUMINNI SHOOKAISARERU KOTONARI KAITOOAKYOOEIKEN KENSETUTO-
JOO HAYAKUMO UTUKUSII BUNKANOHANAGO SAKIIDENTOSITERU EKIKENNO (YOO-
JOOKUN) WA SHOOTOKUSANNEN (TADASIIOKUGAWA) HATUZURI KANKOOIRAI HIR-
OKUMONI AIDOKUSARE IGAKUNO SUSONDAGENKONNO ISHASURA SIBASIBA YOO-
JOOKUNWO INYOOSURU HODODEARUGA DOOBYOOKAIDEWA KONOTAKUETUSITA NIH-
ONJINNO SIOORYOKU (KANGAERUTIKARA) WO DOITUKOKUMINNI SHOOKAISURU-
TAME ISSAKUNEN DOOSHONO HONYAKUOKEIKAKU KOREO KYUUDAI IGAKUBUNO
KAIINNE ISHOKU KAIBARA JOKYOOJU OYOBI FUKUOKAKOOKOO BOITUJINKOOSI
OTTOO URIHAN WOCHUUSINTOBITE CHAKURSHURETA MAZU TEIHONTO (SOKO YOMUMD
-N) RUFUBON NAZGARERUUNO TONO KOOGOO GAKKO AWASU EKIKENNO ZENCHOBA-
UTONO SHOOGOONADOKARA HAJIMERARE TUIDE TEIHON HONBUNWO SUUMEIDEBUN-
TAN IYOIYO HONYAKUNI KAKATAAGA KAIBURA JOKYOOJUNO NETUITO ZENYINNO
KYOORYOKUNOKEKKA KONO NANAGATIMATUNIWA DAKKOONO HAKOBITONATA

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
PAGE-2
DIRECT
NO.36-RSC
COPY:
OBSERVER
615
HONOLULU T.H.
KC. SENDING TO:CQ
JHL/JUPS
FREQUENCY
0175
SION
RST587
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
25 WPM TAPE, NO QRM OR QRN
GMT
(CONT'D)
1345 DOOSHOWATADATINI IWANAWSHOTENNO TEDE SHUPPANSARERUGA JIDAITO KAGA-
KUTEKI SEISENNO KANRENNITUKI DOOJOKYOOJUNO DEDE HONBUNCHUUNI SUU-
HYOAKUKASHONI WATARI GENMITUNACHUUGA FUSARETERU MATA KAONOMITINO
KENYISHATOSITE SIRARERU KYUUDAI KOOGAKUNU CHOOGENKEN (HARU GENMAK
YANABIM7KO) KYOOJUNO CHOJUTUO SINDOOKYOOJUGA FUTUYAKU SITAGOMODE
SUDENIDAKKOOSI TAKAK SHUPPANSARERUGA KOREWA HANAOAISURU KOTONO
MOTTOMOFUKAI NIHONJINNO JOOINO (NASAKI IMI) SIEKATUO KOBEWA-HANAO-
A+BURU-KOTONO-MOTTOMOFUKA+-N+HONJ+
WAGAKUNIDE DOKUJINO HATTATUOTOGETA KAIDOOWOTUUJITI MONODEARUGA
HONBUNWO KADOOWOTUUJITE MITA NIHO NOBUKA NIHONNOKADOOSE OOBEIN*OKERU
SOOKANO (SASU HANA) REKISI NOHONKADOONO TOKUISEI ZOOKANOHINYI
TUKURUHONA KADOONIOKERU JAKU SABISII NO SHOSHOONIWAKATI BUNKASIT-
EKIN* FUKAKU HORISAGETAMONODE DOOKYOOKAIDEWA KADOOTO DOOSHUMINO 8OO-
SHO DINJINNOO SIZENMAN KOKUBUN HATIKOOKYOOJU TUZUMITUNEYOSI TAIK-
ONOKO JOOSIKINOJOO YOI CHO / NOO EIBUN DAKKOOSITE INSATUNI
FUSARERUHAZUDE NIHONBUNKANO ITOKUNO TAKUMASESAGA KAISSURETERU
135
HOMHI HOOSOWOWARE SU NANUJIKARU AR

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.91)
ONE
DO
NOT
WRITE
THIS SPACE
FILE
43
ACTION TAKEN:
LE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS.
CALIFORNIAOR4
111
FREQ KC
NAT
726
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FA
RS589
w2
～N
NAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS.
INDICATORS:
INDEXFD FY
ANALYST:
SHORLY
GMT:
8923
CQ DE JUO/JAU2
0932
VE PRESS DE J C/JAU2 HR N BC AT 183: JULY 1 TH ST
COPYRIGHT DO11 12 TOKYO 1 /7 L DO 11 12 TOKYO 15/7
EDUCATI INISTPY IVEALI SUFGFN CAPTAITOHITCSHI KONO
RPT ICHITOSHI YONO CF JAPALDL A Y  ICAL CLPE CUCOIDED
NC
ISOLATI DREADED DEGUE FEVATEIS FC  STOP
1!
ANNO CLD KCNO DIOL THIUP PETAILEDLY FEPOATE
IS OCTO AL THESIS OT LTIVATI DECUT PACTEPIA
CKES U
1
FOHTCSDESTOP
A
KOO WHC GIADUATILIAL HEL YEI UIVIFSITY AS ASSISTANT
E
AT LDICAL RESBAFCH BURLAU F KITASATO ISTITUTE STOP
SINCE OUTBREAK WAR NIETEIN FORTYONE KONE BE CUMJAPAESE
U
FORCES SOUTHERN AREAS ETHE FIRST CAE INTD CO TALT CUNDFEADED
DENGUE FEVER WHEN HE AT RANGOIN STOP KONC VOWED AT THAT
TIME HED MAKE IT HIS PARTI ULAR MORK BRING THIS DEADLY
DISEASE SUBCONTRCL STOP WORKIG UNDER EXTREME DIFFICULTIES
NG
MANYTIES UNDER FIRE KONG FINALLY SUCCEEDED ISOLATIN
DENGUE FEVER BACTERIA PARA
13 TOKYO 15/7 LL 13 TOKYO 15/7
10
IMPERIAL HEADQUARTEFS 153 L 153A ANNDUNCED JAPANESE
1
TO UNIT:

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.92)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
E
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WIRKS:
CALTFORNITOBS
FREQ KC
11
FREQ KC
T7
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
11Y
CHCREY
INDF XI D PY
ANALYST
GMT:
GARRISOEGEORGIA ISLADLEPLSEISTATISIT
ATTLMPTIO LAND EAST OF A FPT MUNDA FFO ROBIANA T
RDBIANA 14/7 L 14/7 SIFIIN TETY  ALL VIS ELS
STOP JAPA ESE UNIT ALYLFOTE  IT
DA STS
ATTINPTED COORDINATID OFFL:IV CAST F
ANNOUYCEMET TEXTUALLY QUOTI FIRSTLY DUR AT IL E PIA
ISLAND ATTACKE AT WATEES ED L A LFICA IT ICH
ATENTEMPTED LARGESCALF LAI O FRC RCBIAA LAST OF MUNDA
14/7 L 14/7 ST0P CUF FFCLS SAY OFEN TTY SHIPS
ETREPULSE REYAIDER STOP SECC DLY PAPT A FRICA FCROES
WHICH PREVICUSLY IDVA CED SECTCR TAST MUNDA FUFTIP ADVAUCED
 COORDIAT OP PATI EUMABOVEVETICED TECCP BUT ERE
ALSC REPULSED IEDIATELY PARA
14 TOKYC 15/7 L 14 TOKYC 15/7 AVY15TFY AN U CED
( )
TANSFEF CAPTAI HIDLO HIRAIDE BPT HIDEC HIPAIDE DIVISIAL
CHIEF NAVYPRESS SECTION IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS TO POST
2
SECTION CHIEF NAVYGENEHAL STAFF STOP ANNOUNCED HIRAIDES
SUCCESSOR BE CAPTAIN ETSUZO KURIHARA RPT ETSUZO KURIHARA
FORMER SECTIONAL CHIEF NAVY GENERAL STAFF STOP RECALLED
HIRAIDE AS SPOKESMAN NAVYPRESS SECTION IMPEFIAL HEADQUARTERS
10
STOP DN FOREFRONT IN PROPAGANDA WAR AGAINST ANGLOAMERICA
RITS BEGLEDDE,LMAAIORITY
1

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
REE
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
121883
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
ORS
AL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
H.SHOREY
ANAIYST
INDE XED BY
GMT:
ANNCUNCEMENT JAPANESI ATTACK PLAFLH RBOP /12 L PEARL-
HARBOF S/12 W NINETEEN FORTYC E FTTC AYS LATER CRUALLY
DRAUATIC ANNOUNCET SIVIRITISH FAREASTERN FLEET
STOP HIRAIDE SUBSFQUFVTLY AUCED VIRTUALLY ALL CUNIRUES
ISSUED BY PLTIAL HEADQUAFTER HEN THEY CONCERLED AVAL
ALD AUT ANY OKS NE LATEST ICH
OPERATICUS STOP HE
TITLED QUOTE NAVAL OPLEATI OV F TI THCUSAND ILES
UNQUDTL STOP NEY DIVISI AL CHIEF AVY PRESSSETI FIFTY
YEAFSCLD NATIVE CUA PPLFLOTU E STOP PRICE CERVIN AS
SECTIHILFAVYAL TAFFAS ATTACHED TOAHA
SPECIAL AVAL LADI G CCIPC FARA
15 TOYYC 15/7 11 15 TOYY 15/7
HAILING NEWS HUESREV GEFEDE RPT HIESREV GEI EDE AGAIN BEEN
APPOI TED TURKISH ABASUADOI JAPA YOSHI DMURA APT
( )
YOSHIO OMURA CHIEF HIRATSUKA POLICE STATION PRESSWARDED
1
2
GEREDE DEEPLY I"TEFESTED MARTIAL ARTS STOP REVEALED GEREDE
N
3
EXPERT AT FENCING ETDEEPLY INTERESTED QUOTE KENDO UNQUOTE
5
6
ART JAPANESE FENCING STOP RECALLI G GEREDES PREVIDUS STAY
7
JAPAN AS AMBASSADOR OMURA SAID QUOTE TWAS SUMMEF NINETEEN
9
10
THIRTYSEVEN WHEN EYE CHIEF KARUIZAWA POLICE STATION THAT
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.93)
FOUR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
443
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
FILE
12718
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
CALTFOPNIA ORS
NAi
FREQ KC
rT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
nY:
ANAL YST:
SHOREY
INDEXEP DY
GMT:
EYE BECAME ACQUAITECIDE HCTHETAYIHIS
TOICALLINCEDEOSTPATED
VILLAUIZAAUC
C
DEL PR FORS KEDC FCE ADASADFIIS FAILY LTILITARY
ATTAHE TURKICH CASY TCO LI VOIO HCPL HE
ELIACOUAL TANC: CTUFKISH
SODN HAVE OPPORTUNITY
AMBASSADDI I ND BT
FURUNOD
1000
NW TU DE JUO/ JA VA
1130
CQ DE JUC/JAU.
1134
PRESS DE JU0/JAU2 HR N: BC AT 23: JULY 15TH BT
COPYF1GHT DC 11 16 ANY1 15/7 1 DO E1 16 NANKING 15/7
WANG KEHMIN HAIRA NCRTHCHINA POLITICAL AFFAIFS COMIS ION
NOW VISITING CAPITAL S CRNIG CONFEFRE CUMPRESIDENT
C
WANGCHI GWEI CTHLF LEA FFS ATOVERNE T STOP NORTHCHINA
E
( )
STATESMAN ALSC COIFLRRE VITH JAPANESE AUTH RITIES INCLUDING
PRE
1
GENERAL SHUNROKU HATA UD SHUNROKU HATA SUME COMMANDER
2
JAPANESE LXPEDITIC ARY FORCES CHI A L CHIA MBASSADOR
MASAYUKI TANI D MASAYUKI TANI SOTARC ISHIW A L SOTARO
ISHIWATA ECONOMIC ADVISEI NATGOV RNMEVT STOP IN EVENING
9
WAS GUEST HONOR AT DINNER GIVEN BY PRESIDENT WANGCHINGWEI
10
P
BARA
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
F2718
CALL
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT_
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
M. SHOREY
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
17 TOKYO 15/7 ML 17 TOKYO 15/7 YOMIURIHDCHI ML YOMIURIHOCHI
EXNANKING REPORTED CHDU FOHAI FINANCE MINISTER "ATICYAL
GOVCHINA EMPHASIZED NECESSARY MEASURES NC BEING TAKEN
R
TIDE OVER DIFFICULTIES WHICH MAY ARISE FOM INCREASING WAR
EXPENDITURES RESULTING EXMDUNTING NUMBER CHUNGKING TRDOPS
WHICH ALIGNING SELVES CUMNATICNAL COVCHINA STOP CHOU ALSD
REVEALED DECISION BEEN REACHED ON METHOD MANAGEMENT ETOPER-
ATION THOSE ENEMY ASSETS CHINAWISE WHICH BEEN TRANSFERRED TO
NATIDNAL GOVERNMENT STOP SAID ENEMY PROPERTIES WILL EITHER
SOLD OR LEASED OR THEIR MANAGEMENT ENTRUSTED TO COMPANIES
DESIGNATED BY COVE NMENT CTOP CHDU ALSD DECLAFED GOVERN-
MENT COMPEETED PREPARATICYS PRDREOPENING SHANGHAI STOCK
EXCHANGE AS EANS ABSORBING NATIVE CAPITAL STOP QUERIED
ON MEANS OF INCREASING EVENUE CHOU DECLARED GOVE ENT
s
PLANNING INCREASE TAXATION UT ONLY TO POINT WHERE IT ILL
1
2
NOT RPT NCT AFFECT COMMODITY PRICES STOP FINANCE MINISTER
3
S
4
OUTPDINTED LAND TAX CONSTITUTE MAIN SOURCE REVEMUE
5
6
PROPROVINCIAL FINANCE ETADDED READJUSTMENT PRESENTLY BEING
7
PLANNED PROLAND TAXES PARA
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.92)
STx
DO NOT WRITE
IN
THIS SPACE
FILE
1443
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12710
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
CALIFORTIAOBS
FREQ KC
(A11
NAi
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
HY
M. SHOREY
INDEXID BY
ANAI YST
GMT:
18CNA1/711/7
THITEDON SIA LEADCIFEPLTIC VSTAT
TAAVEATJAFLTTIAT
Y
V
LVITATI JAPA ES
1 1.
TAJA
GEOUPIXPTUIICC
SCTHAT THLY COULD STUDY FIF THALD CERTAI ASPFCT JAPA ESE
GOVIRNUET AND ADLINISTFATIVI ATT S BEFOT TNI SUMATRA
STOP STATED HENPLI
ATRA COOPIFATING HOLIHLAFTEOLY
WITH ILITAPY ADIISTPATIC A THAT FOODELFSUFFICIECY
T
NOW BEIG SPECDILY PEALIZ TOF REPFEL TATIV FRO YAPANAULI
RPT TAPANAULI EAPECTED JCI GROUP WHICHLL LIAVE SHCVAN
SHORTLY FOR JAPAN WHERE TBEY'L EXPECTED STAY FOR ABOUT
TWOMONTHS PARA
19 FUKUOKA 15/7 LLY 19 FUKUDKA 15/7 FURTHER 1P OVING MARINE
( )
TRANSPOFTATION SEFVICE  THEEN JAPAN CHOSEN NI FERRY
S
1
SERVIE BETWEEN HAKATA L HAKATA AND FUSAN L FUSAN C OSEN
2
3
OPENED TODAY FOLLOWIC CEREMCNIS HELD SMORNING AT HAKATA
ML HAKATA FERRY STATION STOP ILITARY GOVE NMENT OFFICIALS
ELLS CIVILLANS ATTENDED OPENING CE LM NY PARA
8
20 NANK1:G 1/7  20 NANKING 1 /7 HAVING DUTAINED OBJECTIVES
10
OF PRESENT VISIT CHINA JAPANESE BUSINESOMENS ECONOMIC MISSION
TO UNIT:

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
EVEN
DO
NOT
WRITE IN THIS SPACE
1443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA OBS
WRKS
FRFQKC
FREQ KC
NA!
7r
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
AN
N. SHCFEY
INDI XEDR
GMT:
HEADED BY ASATSUNE CGUFA 
ASATCUNELA LEFTE
SHORNING FOF HOT IA SHANCHAI TOP PARTICULAL IIFICANCE
ATTACHEBY ECONI CICLC LI TISIVI.IT IAMUCH
TWAS MADE AT TI HEN JAPASCHIA FOLICY  COURST
BEING PUT IIO EFFECT STOP SAID GOV FNE T A PEOPLE CIINA
HAVE EXTENDE HEAPTY VELCOLE VISIT JAPANESE ECONCI
MISSIO AS THEY CONSIDEF DISPATCHINC ISSIC A PRCOF
SINCERITY AND ZEAL CY PART JAPAN FOR ATEIIALIZATI OF
SINOJAPANESE ECONO IC COLLA D ATION DN BASIS OF EQUALITY AND
RECIPROCITY TOP CONTINUED VISIT OF YISSION ALSD CAVI IPETUS
TO PEDPLE AND GOVINMET CHIA TC FULLIL SHAFE I STITH-
ENING TOTAL AR EFFORT OF TC ATICS STOP DECLAPI FFECUENT
MEETINGS WHIH JAPANESTISI HELD IT SUCH FIANIAL
( )
LEADERS AS TANG CHCUIN CHOU TSOYIN WU CHENHSIN AT
S
1
SHANGHAI AND ITH FINANCE INIST R CHOU FOHAI AT NANKING
2
3
COMMERCEINDUST Y MI ISTE EISSUPING AND FOODS TUFFS
4
5
MINISTEF KU JADHENG HAVE PRODUCED FARREACHIG EFFECT ON
6
7
CURRENT WELLS FUTURE SINCJAPANESE ECONIC COLLABORATICN
9
SINCE THEY SET ASIDE ALL FDRMALITIES AND REALLY GOT
10
D
OWN TO BUSINESS STOP UPON RETURN JAPAN THESE CIRCLES
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.91)
TCHT
DO NOT
WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
W RKS:
CALTFORIA OBS
A11
FREQKC
NAI
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
INAL DESCR!PTION:
FMN
INDLATORS
PY
M. SHCREY
INDFXID DY
AJAI YST
GMT:
WENT ON ECONOMICX MISIPI EXPECTED TO PASO V TC JAPANLSE
ECONDNIC CIFCLES LATEST AND VALAILI KNCNLIDF OF ISE
ECCNOY  FUNCTICICH THEY AINE THECVAI
CONTACTSITCFFICIAL ELLPVATE CIPCLE
TIS DURITEIF STAYTT PRCS CD BELICFPFATI
OBTAI ED BY ISSIO ILL HELP OFEATLY I INCCPPOLATING
JAP
T
CONSTRUCTIVLASTANS
CHI A CLIY TET GTHENING
MORE SINOJAPANES PLATIC S STOP
PLDVCESS
JAPANESE ECONCIS ISIICHISPATCHE FOF FIPT TIE
CHINAWARD CHIA COTEMPLATING ITH UCH HOPL TO DISPATC
SIMILAR SHINESE IS.I JAPANFAR FUTURI  BT
FUPUNC DEI AF
NM TU DE JUD/JAUE VA
2
1108
(END INTERCEPT)
( )
S
1
2
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.94)
Fee (ren
LY. CHAIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
SE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
OF STATE
MKASNHNITON X XK XQ.
NRY PAYNE
CRAVEN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
291942
WAKEFIELD
MR.
J. DURR
July 22, 1943
BERLE
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/141
Attached herewith are additional copies of Domei
Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
8.711.76
Very truly yours,
Ststerling
Qu
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
SEP 6-1943
FILED
Radio Intelligence Division
Attachments
0
gon gee
dential File
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
ANDSANPS

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
FUEI
ACTION TAKEN:
FL12718 YgY
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALIF
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
9430/7327.5
NAT
TT.
FREO KC
GMT
025
FADE
EMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
AUTO - SIMUL-
INDICATORS:
TANEOUS ON 943 AND 7327.5
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
0929
CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 183∅ JULY 16TH
BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1& NANKING 16/7 1MI NANKING 16/7 REVEALED
JAPANESE EXPECITIONARY FORCES CHINAWARD DONATING LARGE
AMOUNT MEDICAL EQUIPMENT TO ARNY NATIONAL GOVTCHINA STOP
UNDERSTOOD SUPPLIES INCLUDE APPROXINATELY FIVEHUNIRED ITEMS
INCLUDING STETHOSCOPES THERMOMETERS MICROSCOPERS ALSO
U
VETERINARY MEDICAL EQUIPMENT STOP PROCEDURE TRANSFER SAPP-
LIES DISCUSSED INTERJAPANES CHINESE OFFICIALS 1&/7 14/7
IML10/7 14/7
PARA 11 TOKYO 16/7 IMI TOKYO 16/7 ANY POSITIVE AMERICAN COUN-
TER OFFENSIVE ONBASED BLIND FAITH MECHANICAL ETMATERIAL
STRENGTH WELCOMEST PROOFERS JAPAN OPPORTUNITY INFLICT HUGE
DEVASTATING MANPOWER LOSSES ENEMYWARD WELLS SMASH ENEMYS
CAREFULLY UPBUILT STRATEGY DECLARED MAJORGENERAL NAKAO
s
1
YAHAGI DETAILED REPORT LATEST SITUATION ARMY WARFRONTS GIVEN
2
3
TODAYS MEETING CENTRAL COOPERATIVE COUNCIL IMPERIAL RULE
4
5
ASSISTANCE ASSOCIATION STOP DECLARED QUOTE UNISTATES AUTH-
6
7
ORITIES STATED SUBQUOTE MATERIALS PRODUCTION TIME UNSHB-
8
9
QYOTE COMPRISE THREE KEYS VICTORYWARD BUT IN FIELD MATERIALS
10
THERES NO RPT NO DOUBT THEY LACK BOTH SUFFICIENT VARIETIES
2
ETQUANTITY STOP IN FIELD PRODUCTION PEAK EXPECTED REACHED
TO UNIT:

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
ORS
114C
FREQKC
21
FREOK
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
W…1
EMN
INDICALORS
137
ANAIYST
GRIFFIN
GM I
BEGINNING THIS FALL STOP THUS EVEN IF PEAK CAN MAINTAINED
SUBSEQUENTLY TWILL BE DIFFICULT RAISE LEVEL FURTHER STOP
AS PROQUESTION TIME WSCAN CONFIDENTLY SAY JAPAN DOUND STREN-
GTHEN STRATEGIC ETPOLITICAL POSITIONS INCREASINGLY HENCE-
FORTH STOP THEREFORE TIS BUT KTURAL UNISTATES SHOULD PLAN
LAUCH BIG NATURAL UNISTATES SHOULD PLAN LAUNCH BIG COUNTER-
OFFENSIVE AGINST JAPAN WITHIN SYEAR OR NEXT WHICH YEARS
FAVORABLEST TO HER STOP HOWEVER TWILL REQUIRE LONG TIME ET-
PRODIGIOUS SACRIFICES TO UNDERTAKE RECOVERY NUMEROUS ISLANLS
STEP BY STEP ON VAST AREA PACIFIC AS CONFIRMED BATTLEWISE
GUADALCANAL ETELSEWHERE STOP CRUISING RAIDS PANES AT PRES-
ENT STAGE INSUFFICIENT TO ENABLE ENMY UNDERTAKE AIRRAIDS
ON JAPAN PROPER FROM MIDWAY IN MIDPACIFIC ETALEUTIANS IN
NORTHERNMOST PACIFIC STOP SAMETIME TWOULD HEIGHT DANGER
BRING AIRCRAFT CARRIERS CLOSE TO JAPAN PROPER STOP THUS
s
1
ENEMYS APPAREUTLY CONCLUDED TWOULD BEST GAIN BASES ON CON-
2
3
TINENT CLOSE JAPAN ETUNDERTAKE AIR OPERATIONS EXSUCH BASES
5
STOP TRACES THIS SENTIMENT OBSERVABLE IN ROOSEVELTS SPEECH
7
LINCOLNS BIRTHDAY 12/2 ML 12/2 SYEAR STOP TO THIS END
8
9
UNISTATES FACED PARNECESSITY ESTABLISH BASES WITHIN CHUNG-
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT NO. 

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
443
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GRIFFIN
GMT:
KING CONTROLLED AREAS CHINESE CONTINENT ETDISPATCHING AIR-
PLANES STRENGTHEN ITS AIRFORECE WITHIN CHINA STOP THIS IN-
VOLVES NECESSITY CONSTANTLY SUPPLY FUCLS BOMBS ETOTHER
MATERIALS WHICH FORN FOUNDATION AERIAL ACTIVITY STOP BUT
LAND ROUTE THROUGH BURNA COMPLETELY BDOCKED PRESENTLY ET-
LAND ROUTE THROUGH TIBET CONPLETELY OUT QUESTION WHILE LAND
ETAIR ROUTES EXNORTHWEST HAVE INSIGNIFICANT CARRYING CAPA-
CITY STOP THEREFORE UNISTATES MUST DEPEND ALMOST SOLELY
UPON AIRROUTE EXINDIA STOP HOWEVER TRANSPORT CAPACITY
SROUTE ONLY ABOUT THOUSAND TONS MONTHLY WICH MOST CERTAINLY
NOT RPT NOT ENOUGH STOP THEREFORS ENEMY FORCED UNDERTAKE
ATTEMPT RECOVERY BURMA PAROMNI MEANS EITHUS REOPEN BURMA
M
LAND ROUTE STOP SUCH CAPPAIGN PRORECOVERY BURMA NOT RPT
NOT MOTIVATED SOLELY PARNEXESSITY INCREASE AID CHUNGKING-
WARD ETSTRENGTHEN AMERICAN AIRFORCE IN CHINA FOR SAKE GEN-
s
1
ERAL CAMPAIGN AGAINST ANTIJAPAN BUT ALSO BY OTHERS STRAT-
2
3
EGIC POLITICAL ETECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS PRODEFENSE STRATE-
4
5
GY INDIA STOP PRESENTLY WHEN INDIAN INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT
6
7
AUGURS GROW INTENSER THIS NECESSITY BECOMES INCREASINGLY
8
9
PRONOUNCED STOP BRITISH FORCES INDIAWASE TOBE SURE ALREADY
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1798764

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.94)
DO
NOT WRITE IN
THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
FRFOKC
NA
FREOKC
T1
FRFO KC
CMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION
11
GRIFFIN
1N!、1)1
GMI
STARTED CAMPAIGN PRORECOVERY BURMA END YESTERYEAR BUT REC-
EIVED SEVERE SETBACK AT HANDS ORU FORCES ETPLANE ENDED
MISERABLE FAILURE STOP THUS TIS EVEDENTLY DIFFICULTEST AP-
PROACH JAPAN PROPER STOP BUT ENENY CANNOT AFFORI LET MATTER
GO JUST BECAUSE TIS DIFFICULT STOP UNISTATES GOVERNMENT
WILL FORCED UNDERTAKE SOME MEANS ALLAY RAMPANT UNEASINCESS
HOMEFRONT NOT TO MENTION OUTSMOOTH FRICTION AMONG ANTIAXIS
NATIONS STOP PRESENTLY THERES NO OTHER MEANS AVAILABLE THAN
TRY CALM PUBLIC POINTION ETSAME TIME GAIN CONFIDENCE ANTI-
AXIS COUNTRIES THROUGH MILITARY EXPLOITS STOP THUS NOVEMBER
YESTERYEAR ANGLOAMERICAN TROOPS LANDED NORTHAFRICA FINALLY
SUCCEEDING IN OCCUPYING REGION STOP THIS GAINED GREAT PO-
PULARITY PROEMERICAN ETBRITISH FORCES STOP SUBSEQUENTLY
LEADERS BOTH POWERS MET WASHINGTONWISE ETDECIDED ON EUROPE
FIRST PRINCIPLE MOST SAMETIME THEY APPARENTLY AGREED TAKE
s
1
MEASURES APPLY PRESSURE UPON JAPAN IN PACIFIC THEATER WAR
2
9
STOP EUROPE FIRST PRINCIPLE FERVANTLY DESIRED PARBRITAIN
4
5
EXSTANDPOINTS ITS OWN NECESSITY STOP FURTHERMORE SINCE SOV-
6
IETUNION DEMAND PROSECOND FRONT STILL INSISTENTLY BEING
MAINTAINED UNISTATES APPEARS FORCED LISTEN DEMANDS THESE
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARING ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1730

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.98)
NE
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
1318
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FRED KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
BY:
GRIFFIN
INDFXFD RY
ANALYST:
GMT
POWERS STOP HOWEVER TIS OBVIOUS UNISTATES HAS NEVER SINCER-
ELY INTENDED GIVE POSITIVE AID SOVIETUNION STOP INFACT THAT
COUNTRY WANTS GERMAN ETSOVUNION FIGHT UNTIL BOTH EXHAUSTED
STOP NOW THERE NO RPT NO MORE VICTORIES WHICH CAN GAINED
NORTH OR WEST AFRICA PARUNISTATES STOP ETTHERES LITTLE OUT-
LOOK ACHIEVING ANYTHING MUCH WHICH WORTH RESULTANT SACRIFICES
D
IN EUROPEAN THEATER WAR STOP THUS UNISTATES FOHCE CONCLUDE
TWO
EONULD BE FOOLHARDY GO ANY DEPPER THIS THEATER WAR STOP
OTHERHNAD THERES POSSIBILITY CHUNGKING MAY LOSE ALL STRENGTH
RESISTANCE WITHDRAW WCANTIAXIS CAMP IF AID UNGIVEN WHILE
AUSTRALIA FEARFUL OUR AATTACK INSISTENTLY APPEALING PROMORE
ETMORE AID STOP THUS TIS PACIFICWISE THAT UNISTATES ACTUAL-
LY INTERESTED TO REALIZE AMBITIONS STOP UNISTATES KNOWN
COVETING AUSTRALIA ETINDIA STOP FURTHERMORE UNISTATES BEEN
W
( )
ANTING ALL ALONG KNOCKOUT JAPAN STOP UNISTATES UNDOUBTEDLY
1
WANB MOREN ANYTHING UPHOLD PACIFIC FIRST POLICY STOP THERE-
2
3
FORE EVEN IF SHE COMPROMISED CUMBRITISH ON EUROPE FIRST
4
5
PRINCIPLE SHE CANNOT EXPECTED BE ANYMOREN LUKEWARM OUTCAR-
6
7
RYING PRICIPLE STOP IN THESE CIRCUMSTANCES AMERICANS UNDER-
8
9
TAKEN SOUTHPACIFIC CAMPAIGN OF ADVANCING LANDBASED PARGRAD-
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17874

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS
SPACE
443
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
1ALL
FREQ KC
FREO KC
NAT
T7
FRFO KC
MT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION
FMN
13
GRIFFIN
AALYST
GMI
UALLY RECOVERING ONE ISLAND POSTANOTHER STOP STILL PLACES
MAI FAITH UPON ITS AVERICIOUS PHILOSOPHY OF MATERIALISM
ETSTILL BLINDLY BELIEVES NECHANICAL POWERS ETOVERWHLMINGLY
SUPERIOR PRODUCTION WAR SUPPLIES HOLL ONLY KEY TO VICTORY
STOP UNISTATES ESPECIALLY U DERESTIMATED JAPANESE PRODUC-
TION CAPACITY OF AIRPLANES ETAPPARENTLY BELIEVE
ATTRI-
TION JAPANESE PLANE PRODUCTION CARFIED TO CERTAIN LIMIT
REPLENISHMENT OF HER AIR STREINGTH WILL EXHAUSTED STOP AS
PROAMERICAN SOLDIERS SENT FRONTWARD THEY OUTCAME FIGHTING
QUITE FIERCELY AT OUTSET WHEN THEY UNYET TASTED BITTER-
NESS DEFEAT OBVIOUSLY BOLSTEREL BY THEIR TRADITIONAL LOVE
FOR ADVENTURES CURIOSITY HEROWORSHIP ETPIRATIC SPIRIT STOP
BUT THIS JUST WHAT WE WANT FOR BY INFLICTING APPALLING
LOSSES TO ENEMY PERSONNEL COMMA THUS DEBILITATING THEIR
( )
MANPOWER STRENGTH COMMA ETBY SMASHING THEIR STRATEGY BASED
1
UPON MECHANICAL ETAMERIAL STRENGTH WE ABLE GIVE THEM FULL
2
TASTE JAPANS PEARLESS SPIRITUAL STRENGTH ETMAKE THEM REA-
LIZE FOOLHARDINESS CONTINUING USELESS COUNTEROFFENSIVE STOP
THAT AMERICAN TROOPS HAVE CHOSEN APPROACH OUR LINES IS JUST
CHNCE WE BEEN WAITING FOR TO SMASH AMERICAN WAR STRENGTH
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 1

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.98)
EN
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
-SPP
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
DY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT
SPIRITUALLY MATERIALLY STOP THIS WHY THOSE WHO KNOW AMONG
ANTIAXIS POWERS WARNING PRESENT CAMPAIGN REPRESENTS DANGER-
V
OUS ADVENTURE RATHERN PROBABILITY ICTORY STOP LET ME NOW
RELATE GENERAL PICUTRE ENEMYS COUNTEROFFENSIVE CAMAPIGN
(MORE) END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1021
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
1225
CQ CQ DE JUO/JAU2
1132
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2&30 JULY 16TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 12 AID ITEM 11 YAHAGI COLON SINCE 3&/6 IMI
3D/6 STRONG AMERICAN ARMY NAVAL FORCE LANDED RENDOVA NEW-
GEORGIA ISLANDS SOLOMONS GROUP ETNOW AIVANCING TOWARD MUNDA
EXSEVERAL DIRECTIONS WHILE OUR GARRISONS NEWGEORGIA COUR-
AGEOUSLY COUNTERATTACKING IVNADERS CONCERT CUNIMPERIAL
( )
NAVAL FORCES DETAILS WHEREOF WILL EXPLAINED FULLY PARNAVAL
s
1
AUTHORITIES STOP IN NEWGUINEA ISLAND AREA 30/6 IMI 3∅/6
2
3
AYE PART UNISTATES FORCES LANDED NASSAU BAY SOME UNITS WHERE-
4
5
OF ADVANCED FURTHER NORTHWARD DIRECTION OF SALUS WHILE AYE
6
7
UNIT AUSTRALIAN FORCES ADVANCED TO BOBDUBI RPT BOBDUBI ET-
a
9
AREA SOUTHEST BOBDUBI STOP HOWEVER OUR FORCES STATIONED
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788764

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
1443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
FREQKC
NAT
FRFOKC
TT
FRFO KC
CMT
FADF
RST
wim
IMN
GRIFFIN
GMI
VICINITY SALAMAUS COUNTERATTACKED ENENY STOP ESPCEIALLY
IN BOBDUBI SECTOR ON 5/7 IMI 5/7 OUR FORCES ATTACKED
ENEMY EXREAR ETSUCCEEDED ROUTING IT STOP AOPERAS ON 1/7
IMI 1/7 AYE PART AMERICAN FORCES EFFECTED LANDINGS AND
U
OCCUPIED MURAA ISLAND ANI KIREWINA ISLANI SITUATED EAST NEW-
GUINEA WHICH TWO ISLANIS UNGEEN OCCUPIED PAROURFORCES STOP
AT FIRST UNISTATES BROADCAST WORLDWARD AFORESAID OPERATIONS
MERELY FEINT TO LAUNCH NEW STRATEGY DIFFERENT DIRECTION
BUT AS THEY BEGAN FIND OPERATIONS THIS AREA WERENT MAKING
SATISFACTORY PROGRESS ETSOONS THEY FOUND THEY SUFFERING
HEAVY LOSSES ENEMY BEGAN CLAIM ITS OPERATIONS THIS SECTOR
INTENDED PRODEFENSE AUSTRALIA OR THEY INTENDED SET UP AD-
VANCED BASE AS NEAR RABAUL AS POSSIBLE PURPOSE CAPTURING
RABAUL AND STARTED WARNING AMERICAN PEOPLE BE FULLY PREP-
ARED PROGREAT SACRIFICES STOP NOW EYE WISH REPORT ON WAR
s
1
SITUATION IN AREAS OTHERN SOUTHPACIFIC STOP IN BURMA AREA
2
3
DASPITE FACT PRESENTLY RAINY SEASON BRITINDIAN FORCES ON
4
8
INDOBURMESE BORDER OUTSENDING PATROLS ETRECONNAISSANCE
6
7
FORCES ETATTEMPTING RECAPTURE SMALL LOCALITIES STOP THEY
●
9
ALSO STTEMPTING DISRUPT COMMUNICATIONS LINES BY AIR OPERA-
10
TIONS STOP HOWEVER OUR FORCES EFFECTIVELY REPULSING ENEMY
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
1443
_FILE
ACTION TAKFN
12718
FILF
FREQKC
FRFQKC
NAT
FREO KC
TY
FREO KC
FADF
RST
WPM
SIGNAL. DESCRIPTION
IMN
11
GRIFFIN
GM1
ACTIONS WHEN ETWHEREVER THEY DARE APPETNTIME BRITAIN AP-
POINTED FIELDMARSHAL SIR ARCHIBALD WAVELL TO POST VICEROY
TNDIA ETSAMETIME ORGANIZED NEW HEADQUARTERS PROOPERATIONS
EASTASIA STOP BRITAIN ALSO OUTSENT WARSHIPS TO INDIAN OCEAN
FOLLOWING CLOSE CAMPAIGN TUNISIA THUS PREPARING HERSELF
PRONEW CAMPAIGN TOBE LAUNCHED SOONS MONSOON SEASON OVER
STOP THIS HOWEVER EXACTLY WHAT WE WANT THEM DO FOR PROITS
FOREGONE CONCLUSION ENEMY WILL SUFFER ANOTHER ARAKAN AND
MAYU TRAGDY AT OUR HANDS STOP ON CHINESE CONTINENT SUPPLY
WARPLANES EXINDIA APPARENTLY STILL CONTINUING ATAMERICAN
AIRFORCE CHINA STARTED NUISANCE OPERATIONS CUMADVENT BETTER
WEATHER EARLY JULY STOP LATELY THESE UNISTATES AIRFORCES
OUTCARRIED INDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS HANKOW CANTON HAIPHONG
IN FRENCH INDOCHINA STOP 4/7 IMI 4/7 AMERICAN INDEPENDENCE
DAY MAJORGENERAL CLAIRE CHENNSULT COMMANDERCHIEF UNISTATES
s
1
FOURTEENTH AIR SQUADRON CHUNGKINGWISE AMUSED US WHEN HE
2
3
MADE RIDICULOUS REMARK THAT THIS DAY NEXT YEAR HE WOULD
4
5
ARRRID MAINLAND STOP IN ALEUTIAN AREA DESPITE FACT AMERI-
6
7
CAN FORCES WERE DEALT SERIOUS BLOW PHYCHOLOGICALLY PAR-
8
9
FIERCE COUNTERATTACK MADE PARGALLANT OFFICERS MEN ON ATTU
10
ISLAND ENEMY PERSISTENTLY ATTEMPTING RECAPTURE KISKA BY
2
TO UNIT:
PAT ND 8

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
LE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
OBS
WORKS
A1
FREQ KC
FREOKI
NAI
FRFO KC
TT
FADF
RST
WPM
GMT
AL DESCRIPTION
FMN
137
GRIFFIN
ANALYST
GMI
W
INTENSIFYING THEIR ASSAULTS EXBOTH AIR SEA STOP AGAINST
THIS OUR GARRISONS FIRMLY DEFENDING ISLAND CUMOFFICERS MEN
AS DETERMINED AS EVER TO CRUSH ENEMY
PARA 13 TOKYO 16/7 1MI TOKYO 16/7 TOMOKAZU HORI SPOKESMAN
BOARD INFORMATION TOLD FORNPRESS CORRESPONDENTS EXCHANGE
NATIONALS BETWEEN JAPAN ENEMY COUNTRIES UNISTATES BRITAIN
QUOTE PROGRESSING UNQUOTE STOP QUOTE ANNOUNCEMENT REGARDING
DATE EXCHANGE WILL MADE NOT IN DISTANT FUTURE UNQUOTE
SPOKESMEN ADDED P
PARA 14 MANILA 16/7 IMI MANILA 16/7 LEARNED GOVERNMENT COL-
LECTIONS EXINTERNAL REVENUE ETCUSTOMS TAXES DURING MONTH
MAY SYEAR SHOWED INCREASE APPROXIMATELY PESOS THREEHUNDRED
THOUSAND OVER PREVIOUS MONTH STOP FILIPINO ECONOMISTS COM-
MENTING THIS INCREASE SAID QUOTE IT INDICATES WELL EXPAN-
SION COMMERICAL ETINDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES PHILIPPINESWISE
S
PARA 15 MANILA 16/7 ML MANILA 16/7 LEARNED FIFTYONE YOUNG
2
3
MENWOMEN WILL SOON GIVEN TRAINING PARKALIBAPI PROPERIOD
ONEMONTH HALF WHEREAFTER THEYLL PARTTAKE ORGANIZING JUNIOR
KALIBAPI MANILAWISE STOP POSTIJUNIOR KALIBAPI ORGANIZED
MANILAWISE RECOMMENDED LEADERS WILL SENT PROSPECIAL INSTRUC-
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOGE - BIARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT.O, 

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
LE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OHS
FREO KC
NAT
FREO KC
TT
FRFOKC
GM
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
1RY
GRIFFIN
GM1
TIONAL PURPOSES TO PROVINCIAL ETMUNICIPAL CHAPTERS WHICHLL
ORGANIZED NEAR FUTURE STOP COURSE BE TAUGHT DURING PERIOD
TRAINING INCLUDE TAGALOG JAPANESE LANGUAGES PHILIPPINE
CULTURE BOY ET GIRL SCOUTING HOMEECONONICS HOUSEHOLD NANAGE-
MENT PHYSICAL CULTURE
H
PARA 16 RANGOON 15/7 1M1 15/7 8OW ENEMY PLANE DOWNSHOT
PARCREW SMALL JAPANESE FISHING TRAWLER 29/6 1MI 29/6 OVER
GWA RPT GWA BAY TOLD IN DISPATCHES REACHING HERE TODAY STOP
REVEALED JAPANESE TRAWLER WHILE ENROUTE TAUNGUP RPT TAUN-
GUP TOWN ONEFIVEZERO KILOMETERS SOUTHEAST AKYAB FROM RAN-
GOON ATTACKED PARENEMY PLANE 1930 1MI 193& 29/6 1MI 29/6
WHEN SAILING NEAR GWA BAY STOP INTREPID MEMBERS CREW TRAW-
LER ACCEPTED CHALLENGE OUTBROUGHT SMALL MACHINEGUN FEW
RIFLES BEGAN AWAYBLAZING PLANE WHICH CAME BORING IN REPEAT-
( )
s
EDLY MAKE KILL STOP MARKSMANSHIP TRAWLER CREW PROVED ACCUR-
2
ATER ETPOSTSEVERAL EXCHANGES FIRE PLANE DOWNSHOT CRASHING
3
INTO WATERS GWA BAY STOP REPORTS SAID SIGNAL EXPLOIT CREW
5
FISHING VESSEL CAUSING WIDESPREAD SENSATION BURMAWISE END
7
BT
U
FURUNO DOMEI AR
9
10
1213
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
PAGE-1
38-RSC
DATE7/14/43WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
COPY:
HONOLULU, T.H.
OBSERVER615
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY8175
KC. SENDING TO: CQ
ION A-2
RST 559
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION 25 WPM TAPE NO QRM OR QRN
1832 BC AT 2230 JULY 14TH DOME1
5 (MUSUKO ROKUNINWO KAIGUNNI) (KUOOTOHATU) TAKUMASIKUMO YAMAMOTO
GENSUIDAMASIIWO KEISHOO ROKUNINNO MUSUKOWO AGETE MUTEKIKAIGUNNI
SASAGERU KAIGUNNOIE KYOOTOFU ATAGOGUN (ATAGOYAMA GUNCHOO) KUMOGAH-
ATAMURA (NYUUDOOGUMO HATAKE) TITNOSENI HITOTU ASASE NI RINGYOO HAYASI
JIGYOO WOITONAMU HASEGAWA FUKUJIROO FUKUNOKAMI TUGI (GOJUUROKU)
INASAN GOJUUSAN FUSAIWA KURUSIINAKAKARA KANSIROKYNIN JOSIFUTARINO
KODAKARANI MEGUMARE SONOIKUSEINI TUNUSANI SINSANWO NAMETAGA SARU
SHOOWANANANEN SHOOGATU  CHOOGATU CHOONAN YOSIITIGA YOMISRUR HITOTU
GAKUROONOKAIATTE MAIZURU KASHEDANNI YUUDAN JUNANN TAKEOWA BUSIOTTO
CHOONANNO MAKEJITO DOOSON SAISHONO KAIGUN SIGANHEIN OOJITE MIGOTONI
GOOKAKU DOONEN ROKUGATU KUREKAIHEIDANNI NYUUDANSCTA CHOONAN YOSIIT-
IWA MANKIJOTAIGO KAGYOONI SIEREISITETAGA SARUHI MEIYONO OMESINIOO-
JITE MOKKA NITOOHEISOO TOSITE NANAPQO DAIISSENNI KATUYAKUCHUUDEARU
JINAN TAKEOJWA KUREKAIHEIDANWO NIBAN YOKOSUKA KOMGYOOKIKAIYA BAKKOO
DENKIKAWO GOBANTOYUU YUUSHUUNA SEISEKIDE SHUUGYOO SHOORAIO SHOKUBOO-
SARETAGA SARU SHOOWAKUNEN NANAGATU JARAMARUKANNI NORIKUMI KAIJOO
KUNRENCHUU OSIKUMO SOORITUNA JUNSHOKUWO TOGETA TUZUKU SANNAN SABUR-
OOWA ANINO ISIWOTUIDE KANZEN KAIGUNWO SIGAN MOKKA CHOOKEITO ONAJIKU
NITOOHEISOOTO SITE NANPOODE FUNSENSITEIRUGA TUNENI OTOOTOTATINO GEK-
IREINI TUTOME TUZUKU YONNAN YASUROO (ANSIN JAX ITIROO) WA HONNEN
GOGATU CHOOHEIKENSANI KOOSHU GOOKAKUSE SHOOBOKANNI ANITATITO ONAJI
KI KAIGUNBIBOONO RITURETUTARU NETUO HIREKISITE KANGEKIBASE MOKKA
(CONT'D)

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
PAGE-2
38-R8C
DATE7/14/43WASHINGTON CASE NO.
COPY:
DIRECT
HONOLULUT.H
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY1TKC. SENDING TO:
6N A-2 RST SB9 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION 25 WPM TAPE, NO QRM OR QRN
AKOGARENO KAIGUNKARANO REIJOOWO MATIWABITEIRU SARANI GONAN AKIO
1350
JUUGO YOOYAKU OOBONEN*RIT* TAISURUNODE KAIGUNSHOONEN SUISOKUHEI
MIZU HAKARU HEITAI NINARUGIO ITINITIE SENSHUUNO OMOIDEMATTEIRU MA-
TASINGARINO ROKUNAN HISAO HISASII OTOKO JUUNISA MONIISANTATINI MAK-
EZUSHOONEN HIKOOHEI NETURITUNI SIGAN HITASURA RENSETO BENGAKUNI
HAGENDEIRU KONOSUBARASII KYOODAIO SODATEAGETA SODEJIROOSAN FUUFUWA
KOMOGOMO TUGINOYOONI KATATTA YAMAOKUSODATINO ROKUNINNO OTOKONOKOGA
DAISENSOONO OYAKUNI TATUTOWOMOEBA KONNAURESII KOTOWAARIMASEN
JUUNENZEN CHOONANGA NYUUDANSI JINANGA ISGANSITE ONAJITOSINI FUTURIGA
SUIHEINI NATTATOKINO URESISAKARA KYOODAI ROKUNINSOROTTE KAAGANYE
GAIRITAITO OMOITATIMASITA JIHANNO TAKIOGA JUNSHOKU SIMASITGA
KOREGAKONDO SENSOONI TEGARAGO TATEKURETA NONARA KATAMIMO HIROKATTA
NODESUGA ZANNENDESU KOOUE WATAKUSITATINO NOZOMIWA MAGONO KAHEI
YOMISURU TAIRA KAIGHOCHOONAN TOO YONSAI MOKAIGUN GUNJUINNI SODATERU
14 KOTODESUAR

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
LU, T.H.
437
FREQ KC
/JUQ
13065 KCS.
NAT
FREO KC
TT
CQ
FREO KC
-2
2/3
475
30
CMT
FADE
RST
WFM
FMN
TAPE KEYING
MODERATE QRM, NO QRN.
BY
GMI
1332 SN SN PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ HR NW B AT
223 JULY 14 TH DOMEI DAIHONYEI HAPPYOO (JUUSANHI) HITOTU
SITIGATU GIYIRAI NYUUJOOJIATOO SUUKASHONI FOORIKUSERU TEKIWA
NANBOKU RYOOHOOWENYORI MUNDA HOOKOONITAISI ZENSINCHUUNI
SITE WAGASHUBITAIWA KORENITAISI KAKANNARU HANGEKIO KUWAETUTUARI
FUTATU MIGINIKOWOOSI TEIKOKU SUIRAISENTAIWA KORONBANGARATOO
HOPPOOKAIYIKINI SAKUSENCHUU JUUNIHIYORU DOOHOOMENNI SHUTUGEKISI
KITARERU TEKIJUNYOOKAN YONSEKIYIJOOTO KOOSEN JUNYOOKSN NISEKIO
GEKITIN DOOISSEKIO ENJOOSI KOREOHAISOO SESIMETARI WAGAHOO
JUNYOOKAN ISSAKITAIHA (CHUU) HONKAISENWO KORONBANGARATOO
OKIYASENTO KOSHOOSU PARA SOROMONGUNTOONO WAGA SAIZENSENKITI
MUNDANI SAKUSENNO JUUTENWO MUKETUTUARU TEKIWA SARUROKUGATU
SANJUUHI RENDOBATOONI ITIBU JOORIKUSURUYA TUZUITENYUUJOOJIATOO
NANTOOGA OYOBI MUNDATOVA ITIYITAISUNG RUBIANATOO NADONO SUUKASHO-
NI JOORIKUSI NANPOOKARA MUNDANITAISURU KOOGEKIO KITOSITEIRUGA
s
1
TAHOO KURAWANHOOMEN SUNAWATI NYUUJOOJIATOO MUNDAHOPPOONO
2
3
RUISUWAN BAIKORONADONI YOORIKUO KITOSERU TEKIBUTAINO ITIBUWA
4
WAGAKOOGEKINI YORI GEKITAISARETAGA ITIBUWA JOORIKUOWOKON
TAIZUITE DOOHOODNNI ZOKUPOKU YOORIKUOKITOSI NANBOKUKARA
MUNDAO KYOOGEKISENTO SURU ITONOGOTOKU MUNDAHOOKOOE ZENS*CHUUDEARI
10
WAGAKITIO NERAWANTOSURU VOWOMASUMASU AKIRAKANI SITUTUARU
WAGARIKUKAIGUN·SHUBITAIWA KAKARU SITUYOO KIWAMARINAKO
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT NO. 

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FREQ KC
ULU. T. H.
437
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
JUP/JUQ
13065
NAT
FREQ KC
CQ
TT.
FREO KC
A-2
2/3
30
GMT
FADE
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
TAPE KEYING. MODERATE
QRM,
NO QRN.
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
1343 TEKINO ZENSINNITAISI MOOHANGEKIO KUWAETUTUARI DOOHOOMEN
SENTOOWA MOJIDOORI ISSHUNNO YUDANWOYURUSANU GEKIRETUNODOWO
KUWAETUTUARU MIGINOGOTOKSWAGASHUBITA*INO KAKAN KIWAMARINAI
FUNSENNI AIKOWOOSI TEITTOKU SUIRAISENTAIWA JUUNIHIYAKAN
KORONBANGARATOO HOPPOOKAIMENTI SAKUSENOCHUU NYUUJOOJIATOO
HOOMENNITAIEURU TEKIJOORIKUBUTAINOZOOEN ENGONI ATATTATO
OMOWARERU SUKUNAKUMO JUNYOOKAN YONSEKIYIJOON YUURYOKUBUTAITO
KORONBANGARATOO OKIDE SOOGUUSURUYU TEKINIMOORETUNA KOOGEKIOKUWAE
TEKIJUNYOOKA NIS***WGEKITIN DOOISSEKIO GEKIHAENJOOSI TEKIBUTAIO
HAISOO SESIMURUNO IKOOWOTATETAGA KONOSENTOODE WAGAHOO JUNYOOKAN
ISS**ISANOTOOTOI GISEIODASITA PARA SEIJUWA ARATANARU KESSENDANKA-
INI TAISHOSI CHOOJUUTEN GUNJUBUSSINO HIYAKUTEKI ZOOSANWOHAJIME
KIGYOOSEIBI SHOKURYOO ZOOSANNO KESSEN SHOSISAKUNO JISEITO
NIRAMIAWASETE SENJIKA MASUMASU JUUYOOSEIO KUWAETUTUARU TIHOOGYOO
s
SEIWO KONPOTENKINI SASSEINKYOOKA ****ZENKOKU KYUUDKUNI KYOOGIKAIS
1
2
EIO SOOSETUSI SARUSITIGATU ITIHIYORI JISSISI KITATTAGA MIGI
3
4
TIHOOGYOOSEI SASINKYOOKA HOOSAKUO ZENPUKUTEKINI KATUYOOSITE
5
6
JINSOKUNARU SENRYOKU ZOONANNI SISUBEKU KANETE TPHOOGYOOSEI
7
8
KYOOGIKAINO UNYEINIKANSI KOOKYUUCHUUDEATTAGA SEIANWO: URUNI
9
10
ITATTANODE JUUSANHINO TEIREIKAKUGINI FUGIKETTEISITA AIGI
SOTIYOOKOONO YOOTENWA SAKINI KETTEISITA TIHOOGYOOSEI SASSINKYOOK
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 177

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN
ILE
CALL
FREQ KC
LU, T.H.
437
WORKS
FREQ KC
ORS
CALL
/JUQ
13085
NAT
FREO KC
rr-
CQ
FRFOKC
2/3
475
30
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
INDICATORS
HY
GM1
135O HOOSAKUO ZENPUKUTEKINI KATUYOOSITE SENEYOKU ZOOSANNI SISESIMURUTA
QYO-XKUMIN
MENI MAZU GENDANKANI OITEWA SENRYOKUZOOSAN XDBXKOKMMXNXXEXK
SEIKATUNO KAKUHOWO MOKUDKITOSITE SENKYOKUNO SUIYINISOKUOOSI
DANRYOKUARU UNYEIO NASASIMURU GOTOKU KYOOGIKAIO UNYOOSIDOOSURU
HOOSINNOMOTONI HITOTU SHOKURYOOZOOSAN OYOBI JUKYUUKAKUHO
HITOTU GO JUUTENSANGYOONO SEISANZOOKYEO HITOTU RIKUKAIYUSOONO
KYOOKA HITOTU KOKUMIN SEIKATUNO ANTEIKAKUHONO YONTENWO SASIATARI
JINSOKUSHORI SURUTOSITAGA MIGIUNYEINO KANPEKIO KISURUTAME
MAIGETUIKKAI TOOKYOONIOITE TIHOOKYOOGIKAICHOONO KAIGOOWO
SHUSHOO NARABINI KANKEIKKURYOO SHUSSEKINOUE KAISAISURU
KOTOTONATTA SIKASITE KORENIKANSURU JIMUWA NAIKAKUNIOITE
KANSHOOSURU HUZUDEARU PARA JIEAA WCBBA WUKJG GAQOF QJHKL
LHYCN OLGPA WUEWJ DAQRT QGXAQ
AFIEM DAVPT TUCJH BKWYK DFBCU
IZLGO DIWYL OEHLT AYSKF ARDOU
NWEYZ DWVPE VFDNW PAURA SVFHW
CMNNB NGRWC UXKAC CCKMC THBAE
RYULD QEMHP JCDIS CMAX FDMDZ
s
AR NM TU DE JUP/JUQ SK SK
JTBLR MPEND XYCEH WNRIX GNJYL
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 
TO UNIT:

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CALIF7227807
WORKS
CALL
FREQKC
F7227C
NAT
π.
FREQ KC
587
GMT
FADE
5T
EMN
INAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS
INDICATORS:
BY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
CQ CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 183& JULY
0930
17TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 13 TOKYO 17/7 PRAISING QUOTE EARNESTNESS
UTMOST FRANKNESS UNQUOTE W REWITH OFFICIALS ETREPRESENT-
ATIVES PEOPLE GOT TOGETHER *BSINGLE ROOF IN THREEDAY CONFER-
ENCE CENTRAL COOPERATIVE COUNCIL OF IMPERIAL RULE ASSISTANCE
ASSOCIATION WHICH ENDED YESTERDAY MAINICHI EDITORIALLY EX-
PRESSED CONFIDENCE MEETING WILL PRODUCE NOTABLE RESULTS
WHICHLL FURTHER INCREASE FIGHTING STRENGTH NATION STOP NOT-
ING MOUNTING IMPORTANCE COMPLETE SOLIDARITY CUMWAR ENTERING
DECISIVE STAGE JOURNAL STRESSED IMPOHTANCE MISSION CENTRAL
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL ETVOICED SATISFACTION THAT QUOTE NO RPT
NO EXPRESSION DISSATISFACTION MADE UNQUOTE STOP ADDED QUOTE
INSTEAD OMNITHOSE GIVEN CHANCE SPEAK OFFERED PERTINENT
SUGGESTIONS TO EFFICIALS OUT THEIR OWN DAILY EXPERIENCES
s
1
UNQUOTE STOP MAINICHI CONCLUDED QUOTE CENTRAL COOPERATIVE
2
3
COUNCIL ACQUITTED ITSELF WELL AS ORGAN PROENLIGHTENMENT OF-
5
0938
FICIALS OF OPINIONS ON STATE AFFAIRS PREVAILING AMONG PEO-
6
7
PLE UNQUOTE PARA
8
9
14 DAVAO 17/7 KEARNED JAPANESE MILITARY ADMINISTRATION IN
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKFN
12718
FREQ KC
ORS
FREOKC
NAT
FREO KC
TT
FRFOKC
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GM I
EFFORT ABOUTBRING GENERAL IMPROVEMENT HYGIENIC CONDITIONS
NEW PHILIPPINES INBROUGHT EXJAPAN LARGE QUANTITIES HIGHGRADE
SERUMS VACCINE ORDER OUTWIPE MALARIA DIPTHERIA SMALLPOX STOP
REVEALED LOCALLY DEVELOPED SERUMS VACCINE UNSTRONG ENOUGH
MAKE INNOCULATED PERSONS IMMUNE DISEASES STOP UNDERSTOOD
MILITARY ADMINISTRATIONS STOP TAKEN TO SUPPLEMENT WORK
BEING ONCARRIED PARMALARIA PREVENTION ASSOCIATION WHICH AC-
R
COMPLISHING CONSPICUOUS WESULTS IN COMBATTING MALARIA ET-
A
OUTSTAMPING OTHER DREADED DISESSES INCLUDING DIPTHERIA ET-
SMALLPOX STOP UNDERSTOOD INLINE CUMNEW DRIVE OUTWIPE THESE
DISEASES MINDANAO BRANCH OFFICE MILITARY ADMINISTRATION
READY MOBILIZE OMNIJAPANESE FILIPIND PHYSICIANS PROINOCULA-
TION DRIVE SOONS SERUMS VACCINE ARRIVE PARA
15 TOKYO 17/7 TENMAN INSPECTION PARTY COMPOSED CHRISTIAN
SINOSTUDENTS EXNANKING INCLUDING SHOA HOAN RPT SHOA SHAO
s
1
0946
HOAN RPT SHAO HOAN AND SHAO HOKUO RPT SHAO HOKUO SONS VICE-
2
3
MINISTER COMMERCE INDUSTRY OF NATGOVERNMENT CHINA SHAO CHUN-
4
5
GHSIANG ARRIVED TOKYO TODAY STOP PARTY LED BY WANG MINGTEH
6
7
RPT WANG MINGTEH CHIEFSECRETARY JAPANCHINA CHRISTIAN LEAGUE
8
9
OF NANKING AND YASUO IGUCHI RPT YASUO IGUCHI DIRECTOR JAPAN-
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: 1NO 176

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
3
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
ALE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
NESE YOUNGMENS CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION OF NANKING STOP UNDER-
STOOD PARTY STAYING TOKYO UNTIL END THIS MONTH ETWILL RE-
TURN CHINA PARMIDAUGUST STOP SHAO HOAN TOLD PRESS HE OTHER
MEMBERS PARTY AMAZED SEE JAPANESE ON HOMEFRONT WORKING
CUMSUCH QUIET ORDERLY EFFICIENCY DESPITE PRESSURE WAR STOP
F
R
SAID HE ALSO PLEASED KIND HE GIVEN WARM BBOTHERLY TREATMENT
DESPITE FACT HE FOREIGNER UNACCUSTOMED JAPANESE CUSTOMS
PARA
16 TOKYO 17/7 LEARNED NIPPON CULTURAL SERVICE SOCIETY DEC-
IDED ON TWOYEAR PROJECT TO PUBLISH COMMENCING SEPTEMBER
COLLECTION REPRESENTATIVE WORKS WITHIN GREATER EASTASIA IN
RESPECTIVE LANGUAGE VARIOUS COUNTRIES REPRESENTED STOP UN-
0955
DERSTOOD PROJECT DESIGNED SECURE VIGOROUS CULTURAL INTER-
RELATIONSHIP AMONG COUNTRIES COPROSPERITY SPHERE STOP REV-
EALED ABOUT TEN OUTSTANDING JAPANESE WORKS WRITTEN FOLLOW-
ING MEIJI RESTORATION ETBEST REPRESENTING SPIRIT ETLIFE
2
3
NATION WILL SELECTED PARCOMMITTEE EXPERTS ETTRANSLATED
4
5
INTO LANGUAGES VARIOUS COUNTRIES GREATER EASTASIA STOP
6
7
SIMULTANEOUSLY SOCIETY WILL REQUEST SELECTION REPRESENTA
8
9
TIVE WORKS OF OTHER COUNTRIES EASTASIA ETTHESE WILL TRANS-
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178794

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
(A1L
AS
OBS
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
TI
FRFO KC
CM
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
AL DESCRIPTION
11
GRIFFIN
GM1
LATED INTO JAPANESE ETDISTRIBUTED AMONG JAPANESE READERS
STOP COMMITTEE WHICHLL SELECT REPRESENTATIVE WORKS JAPAN
COMPOSED FORTY PROMINENT WRITERS INCLUDING KAN KIKUCHI YO-
SHIRO NAGAYO HARUO SATO JUN TAKAMI END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1000
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
1153
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2E3& JUL 17TH BT
AS
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 18 NANILA 17/7/PREPARATORY COMMITTEE FOR
PHILINDEPENDENCE SWINGS INTO ACTION PREPARE COMPLETE EMANCI-
PATION WITHIN SYEAR IN LINE CUMJAPANS GENEROUS PROMISE IT
NOTES WITH SATISFACTION SELFSUFFICIENCY FOOD PRODUCTION
ALREADY ATTAINED STOP EVEN MORE ENCOURAGING SFACT UNDER
PRESENT PROGRAM AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT THERES EVERY IN-
DICATION PHILIPPINESLL ATTAIN FOOD PRODUCTION RECORD SURP-
ASSING PREWAR MARK STOP REVIEW FOOD PRODUCTION DURING LAST
s
1
YEAR ETHALF PREPARED PARDEPARTMENT AGRICULTURAL COMMERCE
2
3
1157
EOMME DISCLOSED APPROXIMATELY ONE MILLION SIXHUNDRED THOUS-
4
5
AND HECTARES LAND PLANTED * ESSENTIAL FOOD CROPS SUCHS
6
7
RICE CORN CASSAVA STOP AREA REPRESENTS MOREN ONE THIRD
8
9
TOTAL CULTIVATED AREA PHILIPPINESWISE STOP TODAY THERE
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT NE 

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
Tπ.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
INDEXED BY
ANALYHT
GRIFFIN
GMT
MOREN SIXTYEIGHT THOUSAND TRUCK FARMS LUZON ISLANDWISE ALONE
STOP REPORT SAID EVERYDAY MORE COMMERCIAL GARDENS BEING EST-
ABLISHED INDICATING AWAKENING PEOPLE POLICY SELFSUFFICIENCY
STOP HIGHRENAKING AGRICULTURAL OFFICIALS COMNENTING SASPECT
ECONOMIC DEVELOPNENT SAID QUOTE WHILE SUBAMERICAN REGIME
PEOPLE ENCOURAGED SHUN SOIL ETSEEK WHITECOLLAR JOBS SUB-
PRESENT WISE POLICY ADMINISTRATION PEOPLE LEARNED REAL
VALUE GOOD EARTH UNQUOTE STOP FOOL PRODUCTION CAMPAIGN IN-
ITIATED YEAR AGO UNDERTOOK WISE MEASURES MEET SITUATION
SAVED PEOPLE FROM UNDUE HARDSHIP FARS STAPLE CROPS CONCERN-
ED STOP SAMETIME ADMINISTRATION DISTRIBUTED SEEDS SEEDLINGS
CHARGEFREE GAVE TECHNICAL AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE ETTHROUGH
VARIOUS MEASURES SAVED STANDING CROPS STOP INLINE WITH FOOD
PRODUCTION CAMPAIGN NINETYTWO RICE GROWERS COOPERATIVES AND
ONEZEROSEVEN AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE ASSOCIATIONS ORGANIZ-
ED STOP THESE ORGANIZATIONS TWAS OUTPOINTED REPORTWISE CON-
2
3
TRIBUTED GREATLY FOOD CAMPAIGN AS COLLECTIVE EFFORT FARMERS
4
5
HELPED SOLVE MANY THEIR DIFFICULTIES AND PSYCHOLOGICALLY
6
7
EDUCATED THEM VALUE OCCUPATIONAL TEAMWORK BESIDES FACILITA-
8
9
TING SUPERVISION CONTROL STOP TWAS LEARNED CULTIVATION
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1798764

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
ACTIION TAKEN
12718
FREO KC
FRFOKC
ORS
A1
NAI
FREOKC
r1
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPA
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
CMI
HORAI RICE WHICH INTRODUCED PHILIPPINES PARJAPAN SPREADING
WIDELY AND EXPERIMENTATIONS NOW ONGOING PRODUCE NEW HORAI
BREEDS MORE SUITED LOCAL CONEITIONS STOP SINCE ONE MAIN
FOUNDATIONS INDEPENDENCE ECONOMIC STABILITY FILIPINO AGRI-
CULTURAL OFFICIALS GRATEFUL FARSIGHTED POLICY ADOPTED BY
MILITARY ADMINISTRATION YEAR AGO AS POLICY NOW HELPING
PHILIPPINES ATTAIN COMPLETE SELFSUFFICIENCY IN FOODSTUFFS
PARA
19 CHIAMUSSU 17/7 IMI CHIAMUSSU 17/7 LEARNED OJI PAPER MAN-
UFACTURING COMPANY OF JAPAN WILL ESTABLISH NEAR FUTURE MAN-
CHOU PAPER MANUFACTURING COMPANY CAPITALIZED YEN TWENTY-
MILLION STOP NEW PAPER COMPANY ESTABLISH PAPER MILL AT MONG-
KULI MI MONGKULI JUST EAST OF HERE STOP SELECTION SITE
MONGKULI MADE ON BASIS EASY ACCESSIBILITY TIMBER WATER OF
SUITABLE QUALITY POWER TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES STOP UNDER-
s
1
STOOD COMPANY ENGAGE MANUFACTURING NEWSPRINT IN QUANTITIES
2
3
ENOUGH UNONLY MEET MANCHOUKUO DEMANDS BUT EXPORT CHINAWARD
4
5
PARA
6
7
2 PEKING 17/7 ITARO ISHII IML ITARO ISHII FORMER AMBAS-
8
9
SADOR BRAZIL WHO BEEN TOURING MONGCHIANG IMI MONGCHIANG
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT ND 6

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
LE
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
BY:
ANALYST
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
GMT:
ARRIVED HERE AIRWISE YESTERDAY EXKALGAN STOP ISHII SCHED-
ULED STAY HERE PROWEEK PRIOR RETURNING TOKYO PARA
21 SHONAN 17/7 MOREN TWENTYFIVEHUNDRED INDIAN YOUTHS RUSHED
TO HEADQUARTERS INDIAN INDPENDENCE LEAGUE YESTERDAY ALONE
TO VOLUNTEER FOR INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY AS ACCEPTANCE APPLI-
CATIONS BEGAN STOP SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE SMORNING VISITED
HEADQUARTERS PK SPOKE TO APPLICANTS END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1220
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
( )
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
PAT. NO. 1788786
TO UNIT:

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
16
3RSCm
DIRECT
COPY:
RECORDING
HONOLULUTOH.
xxxxxxxxx
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY175
KC. SENDING TO:
HON
MT
133
BC AT 223 JUL 16TH
DOMEI 42
(KOBAYASIGICHOO TOOSAI) (TOOSAIWA TOSEI SAIBAI) (37 NOMATUBI
KOBAYASIGICHOONO KANSHANO AISATUARINO MAENI BOONYUUSARETASI)
KAIGIYIN TEISHUTUNO GIANWA HOTONDO ZENBUSOOKAI IINKAINIOTE
KENTOOSITUKUSARE KONOKEIKA NARABINI KETURONWA KAKU IINCHOOHOOKOKUNO
TOORIDEARU KORERUNOUTI KONKAINO JUUTENTEKINARU KOOMOKUGIDAINI
KANSITEWA SANHIKANNI WATARU KAIGIOTUUJI SOORIDAIJIN HAJIME
K
KANKEIKAKUSHOO DAIJINYOR OREZORE TIKARAZUYOKU SHOSINWO HYOOME-
ISARE GOSIKDOOWO ITADAITANODE IWAYURU GEJOOJOOTUU JOOIGETATUWA
MAZUKAIGINO SEKIJOO KUTIYORIMKMIE CHOKUSETU IKANNAKU OKONAWARETA
MONOTOSINZURU MATA TAISEI YOKUSANKAI KANBUYORIWA KONGONO Y
YOKUSANWUNDOO TOSITE TORIAGERAREN TOSURU ITOWO HIROOSARETANODE
TOOKARUZU KOKUMIN UNDOOTOSITE HONKAIGINO KETUJITUO JISSSNNI
UTUSU RINKAKUMO HOBOAKIRAKATO AINATTATO ZONSURU TUGINI
GIDAISHORINO ZENPANNIKANSITEWA CHUUOO KYOORYOKUKAIGI UTEI II
NKAAKONO KIKANNIHAKARI KAKYUUTEKI SUMIYAKANI ATATAMETE SEIFUNI
JOOTUUSUBEKI MONOWA JOOTUUSEI YOKUSANKAITOSITE JISSENSUBE KI MOWA
TADATINI UNDOOWONASI CHOOSA KENKYUUSUBEKI MONOMO MATADEKIRUDAKE
SUMIYAKANI KETURONWOETE SOREZORE SHORI ITASITAITO ZONSURU
GICHOOTOSETEWA KYOOGINO HEKITOONIMO MOOSINOBETAGOTOKU KAIGIYIN
KAKUINO NESSEI AFFURURU GOTEIANNI TAISITE KESSITE KOREO OROBOKANI-
WASINAI TATOE TASHOO KEITAIOKOTONI SURUMOOGAATEMO SONOSEISINNO
KANTETU SERARERUYOO JUUBUNNARU DORYOKUO HARAU KAKUGODEARU (KAKUTE
RAIGIOSHUUFRYOO

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.97)
42-RSC
DATE71643WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
HONOLULU, T.H.
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
AL/JUPS
FREQUENCY-8175
KC. BENDING TO:
ON A-2
SIGNAL DEBCRIPTION
TAPE 30 WPM
43
(KOBASIGICHPP DAN) (SANHIKANNI WATARI KOKUMKNJOOKAINO KANKYOONITATTE)
(FUNE HASI)
AZAYAKANA SIREIKANBURIO NISFTA TEITOKUGICHOOWA HEIKAISKKI SHUURYOOGO
SANOGOTOKU KATATTA UMARETEHAJIMETE OOKINAKAIGINO GICHOOWOYATTE DOONAR-
UKOTOKATO SINPAISITAGA NANISIRO KAIGIINGA MINASOROTTE MAJIMENAKATADE
DOOYARA TAINIWOHATASITE HOTTOSITA KAIGINOKEIKAO FURIKAETTEMIRUTO KOOY-
ATTE MITAKATTATO OMOUTENMO NAIDEWANAIGA SOREWAKONGONO KENKYUUDAIMOKUDE
KAIGZENTAIO TUUJITE KAIGIINGA HARIKITTE ORARE IKANIMO KESSINKANO
KAIQIRASII FUNYIKIZA SOOKAIDEMO IINKAIDEMO AFURETETAKOTOWA YOROKOBASII
135 KAGIRIDEATTA

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
32-HA-P
7/15/43
WASHINGTON CASE NO
DIRECT
DATE
507
COPY:
JUP
FREQUENCY.
AUTOREVED.
ENDING TO:
57
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION.
GMT
1322) CQ CQ CQ DE JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ CQ CQ CQ (ETC)
1332 VE VE VE PRESS PREXX VE VE VE PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ
JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 223 JULY 15 TH BT DOMEI TAISEI YOKUSANKAI
DAIYONKAI CHUUOOKYOORYOKU KAIGIWA JUUYONHI GOZENKUJI GOFUNKARA
MARUNOUTI DAITOOAKAIKANDE DAIYITIHINO MAKUOAKETAGA SEKIJOO TOOJOOSHUSH
OOWA TUGINOGOTOKI YOOSINO AISATUO OKONATTA DAITOOASENSOO BOPPATUIRAI
SUDENIYITINEN NANAKAGETU KOODAINARU SENKYIKINIWATARI MIYIZUNOMOTO
KOOGUNSHOOHEIWA IYOIYOSONO SINKAOHAKKISI KAKUKAKUTARU SENKAO
KUWAETUTUARI SONOROOKUNI TAISITEWA WAREWARE KOKUMINNO HITOSIKU
KANSHAOKU ATAWAZARU TOKORODEARU KONOKAN ISSIMOTTE KUNIOMAMORARETA
IKUTAJINCHUU SISEINOEIREI IKAZOKU NARABINI SHOOBYOOSHOOHEI
KAKUINITAISITE CHUUSINYORI AITOOTO KANSHATO DOOJOONOIO HYOOSURU
SIDAIDEARU SAKINI WATAKUSIWA CHUUKAMINKOKU MANSHUUKOKU OYOBI
HITOOWOHOOMONSI KONOTABIWAMATA TAIKOKU NARABINI NANPOO SHOTIYIKIO
REKINOOSITAGA DAITOOANO SHOKOKKA SHOMINZOKUGA YOKUTEIKOKUNO
SINYIORYOOKAISI JUUOKUMINSHUUNO SOORYOKUOAGETE BEIEIGEKISAINO
ITTONI SHUUCHUUSI TEIKOKUNI TAISITE ZENMENTEKINI KKOORYOKUO
ITASITUTUARU JITUJOONIFURE MATACHAKUCHAKU TOSITE SENRYOKUKA SERARETUT
UARU KYODAINARU KOKUBOOSIGENNO JOOKYOOWO MOKUGEKISI DAITOOASENSOO
HISSHOONO KAKUSINWO SARANISARANI TUYOKUSITA SIDAIDEARU TEIKOKUWA
KORERANO SHOKOKKA SHOMINZOKUNI TAISI TUNENIENJOTO KYOORYOKUTOWO
OSIMAZU TIKUJIKOREGA QUTAITEKISOTIO TOTOEIRU KAKUTE DAITOOASENSOO
HISMMOONO TAISEI DAITOOA SINTITUJO KENSETUNO KONKIWA CHAKUCHAKUTO
KYOOKASERARE TUTUARU MATA OOSHUUNIOITEWA DOKUIOHAJIME WAGA MEIHOOSHOKO

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.98)
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
FREQUENCY
KC. SENDING TO:
SION
RST_
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GMT
SHEET R
MASUMASU TEIKOKUTONO KESSOKUO KATAKUSI AIKOWOOSITE KYOODOONOTEKI
BEIEIGENKIMENTUNI MUKATE MAISINSITE IRUKOTOWA YOROKOBINI TAENAI
SEIGINO TATAKAINOMOTO DAITOOAJUUOKUNO DANKETUNOMAE WARERANO
SHOORIWA FUDOODEARU SIKASINAGARA KONOSHOORINO KAKUTOKUWA KESSITE
NAMAYASASIYI SIGOTODEWA NAINODEARU ITIOKUKOKUMINNO HIJOONARU
DORYOKUTO GISEITONIYOTOE ANJIMETE KONO DAITOOASENSOOWA KATUNODEARU
IMAYA SENKYOKUWA KOKUIKKOKUTO KINPAKUNODOWO KUWAE KOKKANO RYUUTAIOKES
SURA JUUDAIJIKINI CHOKUMENSITEIRU TEKIBEIEIWA YUITUNO TANOMITOSURU
BUSISITURYOKUO AGENTE HANKOONO KYONIYIDE SONOKISEIMATA ANADORIGATAKI
MONOGAARU SIKASINAGARA KAKUNOGOTOKIWA TEIKOKUNOTUTONI YOKISERU TOKORO
DEARI NANRAOSORURUNI TARANAI HIROKU SENKYOKUNO ZENBCOWO TAKKANSI
IYOIYOSENYIO OOSEINISI FUTOOFUKUTU AKUMADEMO KYOOJINSEIO HATUYOOSI
SHUUKYOKUNO SHOORINIMUKATTE DEOODOOMAISIN SURUBAKARIDEARU KOKUNAINO
SOORYOKUOAGENE SENRYOKUNO ZOOKYOOWO HAKARANGA TAMETNWA KOKUMINNO
HITORIBITORIGA MIOMOTTE KOKUNANNI ATARANTOSURU KIHAKUO KOOYOOSERARIR
KOTOWO HITUYOOTOSURU SIJOOWOSUTETE KANZEN TENHAIGYOO SERARURU KATAGA
TANITAISI WATAKUSIWA CHUUSINYORI KEIYITO DOOJOOTONO HYOOSURUTO
TOMONI ITIOKUKOKUINGA AITOMONI YOROKONDE KURUSIMIO WAKATANTOSURU
KYOOKONARN KESSOKUNOMOTONI NOORYOKUNO SAIZENTWO HAKKISERAREN
KOTOWO SETUBOOSITE YAMANAI ITIOKUKOKUMINWA KONOUETOMO
SEIKATUNOSASSIN SHOOHINO SETUYAKU CHOTIKUNO ZOOKYOONITUTOME
SEISINKANSONANU SEIKATUNO JISSENDI TE ITASANAKEREBA NARANAI
IMAYA SINXOMISOYUUNO JUUDAIJIKINI ATARI KOOKOKUMIN TARUMONO
ROOYOODANJONO BETUNAKU MOYURUGAGOTOKI CHUUSEIO FURUIOKOSI

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
OBSERVER
COPY:
RECORDING
F
FREQUENCY.
KC. SENDING TO:
SION
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION.
GMT
SHEET 3
1N111111
KOKOROWO KOKOROTOSI HITORI YOKU GONINBUN JUUNINBUNNO
HATARAKIO NASITEKOSO SINNISENRYOKUNO HIYAKUTEKI ZOOKYOOWA TASSEI
SERARURUNODEARU PARA MARUMARUKITI DOOMEI SOROMONGUNTOONO
NITIBEIKESSENWA HIGOTONI SOOZENTUO KIWAMETERRUGA SONOGO TEKIGUNWA
RENDOBATOOYORI TAIGANNO NYUUJOOJIATOO TOONANGAN NARABINI SEIHOKUGANN
AITUIDE JOORIKU SAKUSENWO KAKNKOOSITANODE WAGA UMIWASIBUTAIWA
JUUITIHI JUUNIHITO RYOONINIWATARI DOOTOO SEIHOKUGANNO TEKIJINTINI
SIRETUNA KOOGEKIOABISE CHOOSENNO TEKISENTOOKI YAKUROKUJIKKITO
GEKIRETUNA KUUCHUUSENWO TENKAISI SONOJUUIKKIO GEKITUI
YUUYUUKIKANSITA KOREWA TEKIBEIGUNGA WAGA SAIZENSENKITI MUNDAOKOOGENKI
SENTOSITAGA WAGA UMIWASIBUTAINO IRYOKUKENKANI TUUGENKIO UKETAMONOTO
YUUBEKU KONGONOSUIYIWA KATUMOKUSARERU PARA SHANHAIDOOMEI DAISANKOKUSA
KYOOSANTOONO KAISANNITUITE CHUUGOKU KYOOSANTOONO SENTKANNEI HENKUSEIRU
KAISANWO DAISHOOTOSURU CHUUKYOONO GOOHOOSEI SHOONINWO YOOKYUUSURU
BAKUDAN SEIMEIYIRAI KOKKYOOKANKEINO DOOKOOWA KIWI ETE CHUUMONSARETE
ITAGA SAIKINNO JOOHOONIYOREBA JUUKEIGAWADEWA KOREOMOTTE CHUUKYOO
DANATUNO KOOKITOMINASI DAIYITISENKU FUKUSIREI KOSOONANWA SUDENI
JUROKKOSINO SEIEIBUTAIO SENPOKU HENKYOONI SHUUKETUSI CEEEEEEEE
?7? EEEEEEE SHUUKETUSI CHEEEEEEEEEE CHI EEEE ? ? SHUUKETUSI
CHUUXYOONOGAJOO ? ? SHUUKETUSI CHUUKYOONOGA ? EEEEEEEE
JOO SENKANNEI HENKUNO BURYOKUSEISINUUO KETUISI SARUNANAHI ISSEINI
KOOGENKIO KAISISITATO TUTATERARETEIRU CHUUKYOOGAWAWA JUUKEINO
KAKARU KYOOATUSAKUNI FUNGEKIE SHUTOKUWA YONHIYIRAI SHOOKAISEKIO

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.97)
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
COPY:
DIRECT
RECORDING
OBSERVER
FREQUENCY.
KC. SENDING TO:
BION
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
SHEET 
HAJIME KOSOONAN KAOOKIN JOEI SHOONADO JUUKEIGUNJI SHUNOOBUNITAISI
SIKIRINI TUUDENWO HASSITE GUNJIKOODOONO TEISIOYOOKYUU SURUTOTOMONI
DA
/YAYY SYRTOTN DAIJUUHATI SHUUDANGUN
RUSUISHUNIN SHOOKEIKOOWA KIKABUTAINI TAISI MENKUNOSISHUO
GENEISITATO TUTAERARE JITAINOSUIYIWA KIWAMETE JUUDAISEIO OBIRUNIYITAT
TA PARA MANTETUSOOSAI OOMURA TAKUITI VEWA MYOONEN SANGATUNO
SANGATUNO NINKIMANRYOONI SAKIDATI YOUUAIOKETU! SENPAN KANKEI TOOKYOKU
HYOOMEISITANODE SEIFUWA DOOSINO KOONINTOSITE
NITAISI JIYIO
ZEN TEKKOOTOOSEIKAI RIJICHOO KOHIYAMA NAOTOSIO KOYOOSURU KOTOTONARI
JUUYONHI HATUREISARETA PARA AR NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA VA

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.97)
7/16/43
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
HONOLULU. T.H.
FREQUENCY
A-1
478
BION
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION.
GMT
(PAGE ONE OF TWO PAGES)
1333
WAGAKVOTEN MUNDAKARA UMIONEDATETA WAZUKAHATIKIRO TEXIJOORIKUGUN
DAUISENTARU RUGIANATOO ZENMENNI MOOMOOTO HAKUENGA TATIKOMETA TEK-
INO ENMAKUTENCNOODA YAYASIBASI CHOODOKUJIGORO SONOMAKUENNO KATAM-
RITO TOMONI STNONAKAO NUINAGARA MISOKANI SHUUTEIGA ISSEKI NISEKI
TEKIGATUINI RUBIANATOOKARA MUNDA HISIGAWA MEGEKTE JOORIKUSENWO
KAISISITANODA SIRANAMIO KEDATETE BAKUSINSITEKURU SMUUTEIYAKU NANA
JUSSEKI SONOMANBUNNI NEIYINGA NORIKOMI NOKORIHANBUNNI GUNJUSIZAIO
MANSAISITEIRUGA ISSEKINI ROKUJUUMEI HEIKINTOMITE TEKINEIRYOKUWA
WARENI SUUBAISURU YAKUNISEN TAKATINI WAGAFUJINWA SEBTOOHAIBINI
TUKU JUUBUNNI HIKITUKETE ISSEINIWAGA KAIGAN SHUBITAINO JUNOOGA
MIBUTAOKITTA KONOTOKI FUNSENSURU WAGAKAIYOO IHUBITAINI ARATANI
MUNDAKARA KAKETUKERU KOOHOOBUTAIGA SENTOO KANYUUSITA TUR-BEUTINI
UTIDASU JUUMOODANNOAME JINTISUNZENNO MIZUGIWAMADE TUKKONDEKITA
TEKISHUUTEIGA TUGITUGINI FUKITONDE SIMATTA GEKITOOSUUKOKU TUINI~
TEKIWA JOORIKUNOKITWO HOOKISITE ROOBAINONAKANI SOOKOOTOSITE ZANGAIO
MOKOSITAMAMA RUBIANATOO HOOMENYE NAISOOSITE SIMATTA TEKIWAIPPOMO
ROKUTINIASIO FUMIVIRERU KOTOWA DEKINAKATTA DAGAKONOAIDA WAGA HOO-
JUUGEKIDE BEKITINSITA TEKISHUUTEI NIJUSSEKI IJONINOBORU IPPOOKONO
JOORIKUSENNI KOWOOSITE AIKAWA (MUNDATOONOO YAKUROKKIROWO NAGARU)
UGANNIFUJINSITA WAGAMUNDA SHUBIBUTAIO TOOHOO KARA ASSITUTUARU
TEKIBUTAIMOYAKU NVAKUEIONASITE WAGASAYOKUNI SINGEKIS KITATTAGA
WAGASHUBIJIN SUNGOOMO YURUGAZU TADATINIKOREO GEKITAISITA PARA
DAINONVEI KAIGUN MOODOOBUCNOO TOSITE TADAINO KATUYAKUONASITA
NIRAIDENIDEO TAISAWA KONKAI GUNREIBU KACHOONI MOSERARE KOONINNIWA
KURINARA ETUZOOTAISAGA GUNREIBU MAGHOOKARA TENJITE SHUUNINSURU

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.95)
DATE7/1/3WASHINGTON CASE NO.
MONOLULU, TaM.
OBSERVER
COPY:
FREQUENCY135KC. SENDING TO:U
SION1RT7
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION SLIGNT FADETAPE AT 25 WPM
GMT
(PAGE TWO OF TWO PAGES)
KOTOTONARI JUUGOHI KAIGUNSHOYORI KOOHYOOSERARETA PARA SAIGON
ASANITOKUDEN NITIFUTUIN KEIZAIKYOOTEINI MOTOZUXU TAIFUTUIN KYOOKYUU
BUSSINIKANSURU KOOSHOOWA JUUSANHI MARUTAN KEIZAI KYOKUCHOOYORI
SAKINO NIPPONGAWANO SAISMUUTEKI TEIANSIYOONI TAISURU SEISEKI JUDAKU-
KATA BUNSMONIYORI SUZUKI SOORYOOJIATE KAITOOSI KITATTANODE NIPPON-
GAWADEMO JUUROKUHI KORENITAISURU SEISIKIKAITOOWO MOTTE SHUKOOSURU
KOTOTONARI KOKONI GOGATUNIJUUGOHI DIYIKKAINO SUZUKI MARUTAN KAIQ-
IVIRAI SENYENWO KASANETITA DOOKOOSHOOMO TUINIDAKETUO MIRUKOTOTON-
ATTA PARA MARUMARUKITI DOOMEI KARETUNA KESSENTUZUKU MINAMITAIMEIYOO
HOOMENNO WAGARIKUWASINWA UMIWASITO KYOORYOKU TEKIKOOKUU KITINITAI-
SURU SINKOO SOROMON NYUUGINIA HOOWENNO TIJOOSENTOOENO KYOORYOKU
SENDANYOOGO TEKIKINO YOOGEKINADONI RENJITURENYA FUDANNO KATUYAKUO-
NASI TEKINITADAINO SONGAIO ATAETIRUGA HITI GATUJOOJUN (ITSHI JUUHI)
NIOKERU SOOGDOSENKAWA TUGIN GOTOKUDEARU TEKIKIGEKITUI NIJUUNI YUS-
OOSEN GEKITIN GOSENTONKYUU GOSEKI DOOGENKINA GOSENTONKYUU ISSEKI
SUUTEIBEKITIN TKUU TIJOOSIESETU YOORIKUJOO BAKUSAIENJOO GOKASHOI-
1357
JOO WAGANOONOSONGAI JUXKI PARA B  TU DE JUP/JUQ VA

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.94)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONS
TO THE BECRETARY
T. J. BLOWIE. SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
Lk
XKAKKINXROX X XX XI
FC
N
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
July 23, 1943
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/142
I am attaching herewith additional copies of
Domei Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
Very truly yours,
gon gee
E
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
S6-1943
FILED
Attachments
x.21
FORDEFENSE
denSal FD
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND SEAMPS

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS
SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
181
FREQ KC
ALIFORNIA 7796
(^11
44
RIOKC
7320
NAI
FREO KC
T
FREO KC
3
566
25
.MT
FADF
DOMEI PRESS
MN
M.SHOREY
GM.
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
EASTASIA ESSENTIAL PRESENT MOMET DECLARL GE ERAL IANE
MATSUI FORMER COMMANDEFSHIEF JAPANELE EXPEDITI ARY FOPCE
CHINA WHO PRE
(TAPE DID NOT PRINT)
THRCUCHCUT
SOUTHERN REGIONS PRESSWARD YESTERDAY ST P STRESSED HIAVY
TASK CONSTRUCTION NEW EASTASIA UST STEADILY CA RIED
MAINLY BY JAPANESE LEADIRS WHC UT UIDE  ATIV! INHADITANTS
PARA
7
11 CEBU 11/7 LML CEBU 11/7
LEA NED TOTAL THIRTYFIVE POSTOFFICES Y
EEN REOPENED IN
S
一
VIBAYAS DISTRICT CENTRAL PHILLPPINES WITH OPENING YESTERDAY
THREE NE" OFFICES CEBU AND VEGOS DISTRICTS STOP MORE
VISAYAN POST OFFICES EXPECTED OPENED WITIN SMCNTH PARA
s
12 TOKYO 11/7 LML TOKYC 11/7
1
2
FIRST CONFERMENT HONORS SEAMEN UNDER E DECREE WILL MADE
3
BY COMMUNICATIONS MINISTRY ETMARINE AFFAIRS BUREAU 2/7
ML 20.7 WHICH WILL OBSERVED AS THIRD QUOTE ARINE DAY
UNQUOTE THROUGHOUT COUNTRY STOP MANY EVENTS SCHEDULED TO
N
10
HELD AUSPICES OFFICIAL PUBLIC ORGANIZATIONS CONECTED WITH
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
070183
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ILE 181
CALL
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT_
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
INDEXLD BY
M.SHCREY
ANALYST:
GMT
MARINE AFFAIRS INCLUDI G MCBILIZATION  ANY CULTURAL BODIES
HOLD EXHIBITIONS LECTURES DRA AS CINEMAS CO CERTS ED BT
FURUNO DC EI AF
1953
NW TU DE JUO/ JAUC VA
119
CQ DE JAU2/JUO HR NW BC AT 2 3: JUL 11T
BT
COPYRIUHT DO EI 13 MEDAN 11/7
H1
DREAM CF RUBBER HWAY THRCIGHC T GFEAT P EASTASIA COPFOS-
PERITY SPHE DESTINED BECOME FEALITY EA
FUTUE
17
DISCOVERY NEW PAVANG MAT IAL ADE F RUBBER HICH CLAI ED
EQUAL IF NOT SUPERICR
(TAPE DID NOT PRINT)
ENGAGED IN ANALYZING SUMATRAS PROLIFIC RESDURCES STOP TESTS
HAVE REVEALED NEW PAVI G MATERIAL HAS REMARKABLE "EAFING
IT
AND ADHESIVE QUALITIES MAKIG T TREMENDOUS BOCN TO SUMATRAS
ROADBUILDING WORK STOP PAVING MATERIAL MANUFACTURED BY
F
1
FIRST HEATING MIXTURE PALMOIL AND LIME AT ONEFIRTY DEGREES
2
3
FAHRENHEIT ADDING CHEMICALLY TREATED RUBBLR SCRAP AND AGAIN
4
5
EMPLOYING HEAT FOR TWOHOURS STOP SOLUTION THEN POURED OVER
6
P
7
ROOCK BEDS AND ALLOWED COOL FORMING DURABLE BAVEMENT STOP
8
9
NEW PAVING WELCOMED FOR ITS SIMPLICITY OF MANUFACTURE
10
B
WHEREIN EXCESS RUBBER OTHER PRODUCTS PRODUCED IN AUNDANCE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 179794 

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.95)
AREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
181
FREQ KC
CALL
LIFORNIA
NORKS
OnS
FREQKC
NAT
FREO KC
TT
FRFO KC
CMT
FADE
RST
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
1
M.SHIREY
GMI
T ROUGHOUT SOUTHERN REGIC'S ESPI CIALLY
ALAISULATRA USED PARA
14 ANILA 18/7 L ANILA 1 /7
POSSIBILITY ITEENAL COLLAPSI ATG A GLOAMEFICAN COUNTRIES
BECOMI G STRO GEI DAILY AC CRDI G FILIPINE CTATIF I
TAGALOG LA GUAGE TALIBA PC CCETIGAVE  LTIC CRILIS
FACI:G ANTIAXIS COUNTRIEO LTPCITE LIKELIEST POSSIBILITIES
S
QUOTE FIRSTLY SEEKING BY ENGLAD OF SEPARATE ARVISTICE ITH
0
AXIS POWERS AND CONSEQUET AUTMATIC DISSOLTIO BRITISH
EMPIRE SECONDLY INTER AL COLLAPSE UNISTATIS  UOTE STOP
COMMENTATOR RECALLED 1 1917 ML
1917 THREEYIALL AFTER
DUTBREAK WORLD WAR O E ENGLAND ON VLRGE COMFL TE COLLAPSE
AND ONLY TINELY AMERICAN ASSISTANCE NARROWLY AVLRTED
A
THROUGH
BRITISH DISASTER STOP ADDED CUDTE TODAY BRITAIN GONE
NEARLY FOURYEARS WAR FAR MORE DEVASTATING THAN FIRST STOP
s
MENACE TO BRITAIN BY AXIS SUBMARINES ANTIBRITISH LIFELINE
1
2
SEVERER WHILE LUFTWAFFE BEEN OUTCARRYING INCESSANT RAIDS
3
ANTIENGLANDS VITAL INDUSTRIAL CENTERS STOP AGCNY SUFFERED
6
BY ENGLAND TODAY INCOMPARABLY GI EATER IN 1937 LML 1937
7
UNQUOTE STOP CONSIDERING BRITMILITARY ABILITY AND
10
FIGHTING STRENGTH ENGLASH MAINLAND SCARCELY MAINTAINING
2
CONTINUE - CLOGE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT: 1NO: 1736006

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
E FOUR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALIFORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT.
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
DEFENSIVE POSITION FILIPID CI TATCE SAID ADI QUOTE
IF GERMANY SUCCEEDS IN FIXINC EASTERN FRONT EITHEF
MILITARILY OR POLITICALLY AND TRANSFERS GREATLI PART HLR
POWERFUL ARMY AND AIRFORCES TO WESTCRN AND NORTHER: FRONTS
COMYA ENGLAND WILL HAVE NO RPT NO ALTELNATIVE BUT SUE FOR
PEACE
(BREAK, REPEATS 14 MANILA FRO BEGINNIG. RESUME AFTER SUE
FOR PEACE)
UNQUOTE STOP TUR*NG EVIDE CES ITLRNAL COLLAPSE UNISTATESISE
COMMENTATOR
**OMME*
*TOR SAID QUOTE EVIDENC CELA
*本*本**水水*水水*****
FUNCTICNS UNISTATES AS SELFAPPCI TED ***QUCTE ARSENAL
DEMOCRACY UNSUBQUCTE ALRLADY BEEN PARALYZED AFTEF CNLY
TWENTYMONTHS WAR UNQUOTE STOP OUTPOINTED FIRSTLY QUOTE FATAL
NATIONAL DISEASE UNQUOTE OF BITTER STRUGGLE BETWEEN LABOR AND
CAPITAL PARALYZED VITAL WARINDUSTRIES SECONDLY THERES DEPLORABLE
1
SHORTAGE TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES ON BOTH LAND AND SEA
2
3
THIRDLY MAERICAN WAR EFFDRTS SERIDUSLY HAMPERED BY
4
5
INCURABLE BOTTLENECKS ARISING FROM EXTREME SHORTAGE OR
COMPLETE LACK RW MATERIALS INDISPENSABLE FOR WAR PRODUC-
TION TOP DECLARED FAR FROM BEING UNISTATES AMERICA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 178704

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.94)
FIVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
ILE
181
ALIFCRNIA
(ALL
FREQ KC
(OBS
FREO KC
FREO KC
NAT
FREO KC
TI
FADE
RST
WPA
.MI
IMN
M. SHOREY
GMI
DISUNITED SINCE INDIVIDUAL CITIZENS NEITHER ILLING CR
DETERMINED MAKE SUPREME SACRIFICE FOR NATIC STOP CONTINUD
THERE LAMENTABLE SHORTAGE TANKERS CARGOBOATS WHILE ONLY
R
THREE TRANSCONTINENTAL RAILRDAD LINES LI K WESTCOAST ITH
VEHICLES
EAST STOP ADDE MOTOREHICUES NO KEPT IODILE BECAUSE
SHORTAGE TIRLS GASOLIE STOP SAID QUCTE TIS GRI REALITY
WHICH AMERICANS NEVER FORESAW BEFORE VAR UU TE STOP
OUTPOI TEO SAMETIE UNI TATEC WAR IRODUCTI
FALLLN OFF
GREATLY DUE SHORTAGE RAW ATE IALS SUCHS RA" RUBBER
OR
WHICHS NOW NEARLY EXHAUTED STOP FILIPIVO CO NTATR
IN
CONCLUDED QUOTE TIS CLEAR POSSIBILITY AND PROBABILITY **TERNAL
COLLAPSE MORE EVIDENT IN ANGL**AM
LEEEI AGLDAMEFICANS
THAN IN ANY OTHEF BELLIGEREATS UNQUOTE PARA
15 HANOI 11/7 ML 11/7 FIC AUTHDRITIES TODAY ANNOUNCED
AMERICAN AIR FORCE CHINA YESTERDAY MORNING AGAIN ATTACKED
HAIPHONG CAUSI G SDME CASUALTIES AMONG IDIGENOUS POPULA-
TION STOP ANNDUNCEMENT TEXTUALLY QUOTE AMERICAN AIR FORCE
CHINAWASE MORNING 10/7 LML 10/7 WAS OVER TONKING PROVINCE
AND AGAIN ATTACKED CITY APHONG CAUSING SOME CASUALTIES
AMONG NATIVE INHABITANTS UNQUOTE END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
(END INTERCEPT)
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17004

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKFN
FILE
181
FREQ KC
LIF.
744
FREQKC
OBS
7320
Nハ
FRFOKC
FRFQ KC
VERY
581
20
LITTLE
RST
WPM
DOMEI PRESS
GRIFFIN
GM
945
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
PARA 14 MANILA 12/7 1MI 14 MANILA 12/7 REVEALED TOJO ARRIVED
MANILA 10/7 1M1 18/7
PARA 15 TOKYO 12/7 1MI 15 TOKYO 12/7 BOARD INFOHMATION COM-
MUNIQUED QUOTE ARTE***MPLETING HIS MISSION OF VISITS THAI-
LANDWARD ALSO AREAS SUBJAPANESE AXINISTRATIUN SOUTHERN
REBIONS PREMIER GENERAL HIDEKI TOJO CONCURRENTLY WAR MINIST-
ER RETURNED TOKYO 1515 SAFTERNOON (INK NOT TURNED ON, SHORT
TRANSMISSION LOST)
16 TOKYO 12/7 GENERAL TOJOS RETURN CAPITALWARD BROUGHT TO
CONCLUSION FLYING SOUTHERN TOUR LITTLE LESSEN TWO WEEKS DURA-
TION WHEREIN PREMIER ONCALLED LS FOUR MEMBER NATIONS COP-
ROSPERITY SPHERE IN TWO OF THEN PATTICIPATED WORK HISTORY-
MAKING IMPORTANCE ONBEARING COURSE PACIFIC WAR STOP TOJO
*ADYO
LEFT ODAY JUNE THIRTIETH HIS DEPARTURE WELLS NATURE HIS
RE
( )
8
TOUR CLOAKED IN OFFICIAL SILENCE UNTIL DRAMATIC *VELATION
1
2
FIVE DAYS LATER HIS PRESENCE BANGKOK ACCOMPANYING IT BOMB-
3
SHELL ANNOUNCEMENT THAIJAPANESE AGREEMENT PROREADJUSTMENT
5
6
THAILANDS FRONTIERS STOP AFTER TRANSITIO* *****ER SAIGON ON
7
8
WAY THAILAND TWODAY SOJOURN BANGKOK JULY IHRID JULY FIFTH
9
10
TOJO SPENT ANOTHER TWO DAYS SHONAN UNTIL JULY SEVENTH THERE
2
PATND16
TO UNIT:

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
ALE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT.
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANAL.YBT
GMT:
WITH SUBHAS CHNDRA BOSE PARTICIPATED IN INAUGURATION
INDIAS NEW NATIONAL ARMY STOP OF THESE EVENTS DETAILS AL-
READY REPLRTED IN PREVIOUS DISPATCHES STOP DISCLOSED TODAY
WITH TOJOS SAFE RETURN TOKYOWISE THAT ENROUTE HOME PREMIER
ALSO VISITED DJAKARTA JULY SEVENTH ANI MANILA JULY TENTH
STOP WHILE MANILAWISE PROSECOND TINE SINCE BEGINNING HOSTIL-
L
ITIES TOJO ADDRESSED PRENARY SESSION PHILIPPINE INDEPENDEN-
CE ******ARATORY CO****EE SAFTERNOON JULY TENTH URGED COM-
MITTEE COMPLETE WORK SPEEDIEST A* POSSIBLE STOP PARTICULARLY
CONNITTEE MAINTAINING CLOSEST COOPERA-
ONDWELLED IMPORTANCE
TION WITH EXECUTIVE COMMISSION WELLS FILIPINO PEOPLE AS
WHOLE STOP RESPONDING TOJOWARD JOSEP LAUREL RPT JOSEP LAU-
REL COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN EXPRESSED APPRECIATION PROGRAT INDE-
PENDENCE PHILIPPINESWARD VOICED REASSURANCE FILIPINOS DETER-
MINATION UNONLY RECONSTRUCT PHILIPPINE NATION WELLS SHOUL-
2
0955
DER FULL BURDEN REOPONSIBILITY INDEPENDENCE STOP STRESSED
3
4
JOY FELT BY EIGHTEEN MILLION FILIPINOS REPRESENTS NOT ONLY
5
6
THEIR OWN PROUD AWAKENING AT PROSPECTS THEIR BRIGHT FUTURE
7
8
BUT EQUALLY JOY OF MILLIONS OTHER FELLOW ASIATICS WHO SIMI-
9
10
LARLY ON ROAD FREEDOM STOP TOJO STAYED MANILA HOTEL WHILE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
181
FREO KC
FRFQ KC
NAI
FREOKC
rRROKT
FADE
RST
WPM
MN
GRIFFIN
GMT
PHILIPPINES RECEIVED ROUSING WELCOME WHEREVER HE WENT CON-
VINCINGLY ATTESTING HIS POPULARITY AMONG FILIPINOS SINCE
GRANT INDEPENDENCE STOP TOJO ALSO UTILIZED TIME
CONFER
WITH ***** JAPANESE OFFICIALS ANILA WELLS LOCAL REPRESENT-
ATIVES JAPANESE ARMY NAVY ********** (UNREADABLE)
COMMANDERCHIEF JAPANESE FORCES PHILIPPINES SHOZO MURATA RPT
T
1000
SHOZO MURATA HIGHESE CIVILIAN ADVISER TO JAPANESE MILITARY
ADMINISTHATION STOP WHEN TOJOS PARTY ARRIVED SPACIOUS
K
GANBIL PLAZA RPT GANBIL PLAZA DJAMARTAWISE AFTERNOON JULY
C
SEVENTH SIXTY MINUTES LATER SPHEDULED MOREN HUNDRED THOU-
SAND NATIVE INHABITANTS INCLUDING MANY CHINESE INDIANS ARABS
WERE
INPATIENTLY AWAITING PREMIER WELCOMED HIS ARRIVAL WITH
FRENZIED SHOUTS GREETINGS STOP MASS MEETING OPENED WITH AD-
DRESS FROM IR SOEKARNO RPT IR SOEKARNO DIRECTOR POETERA
B
RPT POETERA ORGANIZATION STOP TOJO SPEECHING IN RESPONSE
1
2
SAID HE OVERJOYED BEING PRESENT DJAKARTA HAVING OPPORTUNITY
FIRSTHAND OBSERVATION EASTINDIANS RECOVERY FREEDOM STOP
TOJO THANKED DJAWANESE PROTHEIR SPLENDID COOPERATION IN
CAUSE MUTUAL FREEDOM WITH JAPANS WAR EFFORTS STRESSED INDON-
ESIANS CHINESE INDIANS ARE EQUAL MEMBERS OF SINGLE FAMILY
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATI NO: 1706

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICAIORS:
UY
INDEXED FY
ANAIYT
GRIFFIN
GMT
CONSTITUTING GREATER EASTASIA STOP SAID HIS VISITS CHINA
MANCHOUKUO PHILIPPINES HAVE SERVED DEEPEN HIS CONVICTION
AXIS VICTORY IN ASIA ANE ESTABLISHNENT COPROSPERITY SPHERE
ON FIRM FOUNDATIONS STOP RECALLED HIS DIET PRONISE GRADUAL
SELFGOVERNMENT DJAWANESE CONCLUDINGLY APPEALED PROCONTINUED
COOPERATION PROATTAINMENT VICTORY STOP DJAKARTAWISE TOJO
STAYED WITH LIEUTGENERAL KUNAKICHI HARADA RPT KUMAKICHI
HARADA DISCUSSED MILITARY ADMINISTRATIVE PROBLEMS WITH LEAD-
ING JAPANESE ARMY NAVIERS WELLS CIVILIAN OFFICIALS
PARA 16 MANILA 12/7 IMI 16 MANILA 12/7 WHILE PUBLIC HAILED
PREMIER TOJOS SECONL VISIT PHILIPPINES AS INDICATING JAPAN-
ESE PARAMOUNT INTEREST WELFARE ISLANDS WHICH BECONING INDEP-
ENDENT WITHIN FEW MONTHS FILIPINO OFFICIALDOM OUTPOINTED JAP-
1012
ANESE PREMIERS VISIT BEEN SOURCE GREAT ENCOURAGEMENT PROTH-
( )
OSE OFFICIALS WHO PREPARING ISLANDS FOR INDEPENDENCE STOP
1
STATEMENTWISE JORGEB VARGAS CHAIRNAN PHILIPPINES EXECUTIVE
2
3
COMMISSION DECLARED TOJO PARSECOND VISIT GIVFY GREAT ENCOU-
4
5
RAGEMENT TO MEMBERS PHILIPPINES INDEPENDENCE PREPARATORY COM-
6
7
MITTEE WHO ENGAGED PREPARE ISLANDS PROFULL INDEPENDENCE
8
9
STOP ADDED MEN WHO GUILDING FILIPINOS HAVE STRENGTHENED
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788794

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
143
FILE
181
ACTIONTAKFN
FILI
FRIQKC
REOKC
FREOKC
NAI
FREOK
FADF
RST
WPM
SCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
THEIR DETERMINATION FULFIL MISSION IN ANSWER JAPANESE SINC-
EHITY STOP OUTPOINTED EVERY FILIPINO GRATEFUL TOJOWARD ET-
JAPANWARD PROPROMISE FULL INDEPENDENCE WITHIN CURRENT YEAR
WHICH MADE STATEMENTWISE IMMEDIATELY POSTTOJOS RETURN TOKYO
EXINITIAL VISIT ISLANDSWARD STOP VARGAS DECLARED FILIPINOS
QUOTE REGARDS JAPANS PREMIER AS THEIR SAVIOR UNQUOTE ETTHEY
GRIMLY DETERNINED INCREASE THEIR COOPERATION CUNJAPAN PRO-
SATISFACTORY EXECUTION WAR GREATER EASTASIA STOP SIMILAR
STATEMENTWISE JOSEP LAUREL CHAIRMAN PHILIPPINES IDEPENDENCE
PREPARATORY COMMITTEE DECLARED SECONI VISIT TOJO SIGNIFICANT
VIEW FACT IT MADE WHEN PHILIPPINES INDEPENDENCE PREPARATORY
COMMITTEE COMMENCED PREPARATIONS UPDRAWING PLANS PROFULL
INDEPENDENCE ISLANDS STOP OUTPOINTED MEMBERS CONMITTEE STEA-
DILY CONSCIENTIOUSLY OUTCARRYING ASSIGNED MISSION ETSIX
SUBCOMMITTEES BEEN ESTABLISHED STOP ADDED SUBCOMMITTEES ALSO
BEGUN WORK THEIR RESPECTIVE FIELDS STOP DECLARED PREMIER
2
TOJOS VISIT GIVEN FRESH ENCOURAGEMENT TO EIGHTEEN MILLION
FILIPINOS WHO NOW FACE TO FACE CUMFULL INDEPENDENCE
PARA 18 TOKYO 12/7 IML 18 TOKYO 12/7 PREMIER TOJO UPON RE-
TURN TOKYO STATEMENTWISE REVEALED MET DOCTOR BA MAW RPT BA
10
MAW CHIEF BURMESE GOVERNMENT WHILE SHONANWISE STOP STATED
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 17

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
LE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
BY:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYRT
GMT
E
BELIEF GREAT IDEAL QUOTE HAKKO
HIS TOUR DEEPENED HIS
CHIU UNQUOTE DASH UNIVERSAL BROTHERHOOD UNDASH RAPIDLY
ATERIALIZING STOP EXPRESSED APFRECIATION FOR EFFORTS PEO-
PLES SOUTHERN REGIONS IN PROSECUTING WAR GREATER EASTASIA
STOP SAID HE PARTICULARLY IMPRESSED BY WAREFFORTS OF THAI-
1x25
PEOPLE UNDER LEADERSHIP PRENIER PHIBUN SONGKHRAM STOP SAID
DURING HIS TRIP *AHL OPPORTUNITY VIEWING INDIAN NATIONAL
ARMY SHONANWISE OBSERVING ENTHUSIASN PEOPLES DJAWAWISE OTHER
AREAS WORKING TOWARD RECONSTHUCTION END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1028
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA E E E T E T
(END INTERCEPT)
5
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17764

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALIF.
807
FREQKC
NAT
IT
FRFO KC
=A3
576
w
GMT
IMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION
QRM & QRN
823
GMI
C
0930
PRESS DE JU0/JAU2 HR NW BD AT 1830 JULY 13TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 13 NANKING 13/7 METHODS SECURE CLOSER ECONOMIC
COOPERATION INTERJAPAN CHINA LENGTHILY DISCUSSED SMORNING
BETWEEN MEMBERS JAPANESE ECONOMIC MISSION CHINAWARD HEADED
BY MASATSUNE OGURA FORMER JAPANESE FINANCE MINISTER ETREPRESENT-
ATIVES SINOECONOMIC CIRCLES STOP SMORNINGS CONFERENCE HELD
SUBCHAIRMANSHIP FINANCE MINISTER CHOU FOHAI STOP DURING TWO-
HOUR CONFERENCE FRANK OPINIONS EXCHANGED ON EXPANSION PRODUC-
TIVITY ETPROMOTION TRADE BETWEEN TWO COUNTRIES WELLS STABIL-
IZATION PRICES ETCIRCULATION CENTRAL RESERVE BANKNOTES STOP
CHOU FOHAI LATER HOST TO JAPANESE MISSION LUNCHEONWISE PARA
14 TOKYO 13/7 IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS 1530 COMMUNIQUED QUOTE
FIRSTLY OUR GARRISON UNITS NEWGEORGIA RPT NEWGEORGIA SIN* /7
COURAGEOUBLY COUNTERATTACKING ENEMY FORCES WHICH AFTER LANDING
SEVERAL POINTS ISLAND ATTEMPTED ADVANCE TOWARD MUNDA RPT MUNDA
s
1
FROM SOUTH ETNORTH SECONDLY PARALLELING THIS OPERATION IMPERIAL
2
3
DESTROYED FLOTILLA MATERS NORTH COLOMBANGARA RPT COLOMBANGARA
ISLAND NIGHT 12/7 ROUTED ENEMY NAVAL FORMATION INCLUDING
MOREN FOUR CRUISERS ETDURING ENGAGEMENT SANK TWO ENEMY CRUISERS
ABIRED ANOTHER CRUISER ETROUTED REMAINDER STOP ONE OUR CRUISERS
10
SUSTAINED HEAVY DAMAGE RESULT THIS ENCOUNTER STOP NOTE THIS
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BMIARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
JIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
INDEXFD BY
823
ANALYST
GMT
NAVAL ENGAGEMENT BEEN OFFICIALLY DESIGNATED SUBQUOTE NIGHT
BSTTLE OFF COLOMBANGARA UNSUBQUOTE UNQUOTE PARA
15 TOKYO 13/7 IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS 123* 60230 ANNOUNCED
QUOTE JAPANESE NAVAL AIRUNITS 9/7 9 9/7 OUTCARRIED DAYLIGHT
RAID ON PORT RENDOVA DOWNSHOT FIVE ENEMY PLANES AIRCOMBAT
POSTENGAGING TWNTY ENEMYPLANES STOP ALSO SANK SIX ENEMY LANDING
BARGES STOP FORMATION JAPANESE FIGHTERS BOMBERS 11/7 ATTACKED
ENEMY FORCES ENGAGED LANDING OPERATIONS NORTHWEST COAST NEW-
GEORGIA ISLAND ETDOWNSHOT TWENTYFOUR ENEMY PLANES COMBATWISE
CUMFORTY PEETHIRTYEIGHT FIGHTERS STOP THREE OUR PLANES UNYET
RETURNED BASE UNQUOTE PARA
16 SHONAN 12/7 LATEST BASIC ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES PROSOUT-
HERN AREAS WHICH BEEN UPDRAWN TOKYOWISE EXPLAINED DETAILWISE
TO PROVINCIAL GOVERNORS MALAI PARDIRECTOR GENERAL JAPANESE
MILITARY ADMINISTRATION DURING GUBERNATORIAL CONFERENCE HELD
( )
s
YESTERDAY STOP REPORTED THREE IMPORTANT QUESTIONS TABLED AN
1
2
CONFERENCE MEETING FIRSTLY PARTICIPATION PARLOCAL INHABITANTS
3
4
IN ADMINISTRATION GOVERNMENT SECONDLY INCREASE IN PRODUCTION
5
6
FOODSTUFFS THIRDLY REORGANIZATION OR DISPOSAL PRESENT RUBBER
7
8
ESTATE PLANTATIONS STOP REVEALED THESE QUESTIONS IMMEDIATELY
9
10
UPTAKE PARCONFEREES ETDISCUSSED IN LIGHT DATA COLLECTED THEREON
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788794

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ'KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY:
823
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT.
PARPROVINCIAL GOVERNMENTS STOP UNDERSTOOD PRESENT CONFERENCE
CALLED ORDER DISCUSS WAYS MEANS INPLACE PREACTICE VARIOUS
BASIC POLICIES MILITARY ADMENISTRATION WHICH FORMED DURING
CONVENTION CHIEFS GNERAL AFFAIRS DEPARTMENTS OMNIMILITARY
ADMINISTRATIONS SOUTHERN REGIONSWISE ETALSO POLICIES EXOLVED
PATTOKYO GOVERNMENT VISAVIS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT SOUTH STOP
OUTSET CONFERENCE POLICIES EXPLAINED DETAILWISE PARDIRECTOR
GENERAL MILITARY ADMINISTRATION STOP DURING COURSE EXBLANA-
TION CAREFULLY OUTLINED THREE MAIN OBJECTIVES MILITARY ADMIN-
ISTRATION FIRSTLY MAINTENANCE PEACE ORDER SECONDLY ACUISITION
ETDEVELOPMENT KEY DEFENSE MATERIALS THIRDLY ACHIEVEMENT LOCAL
SELFSUFFICIENCY STOP POSTGIVING CONFEREES HIS OWN SUGGESTIONS
PROREALIZATION THESE OBJECTIVES DIRECTOR GENERAL CONCLUDED
PARAPPEALING GOVERNORS CONCERNED PROCONTINUANCE THEIR FULL
COOPERATION ETADMINISTRATION ABEAS SUBTBEIR JURISDICTION
s
0954
UNTIL TIME WHEN FORMAL TRANSFER AREAS WHICH BEEN PROMISED
2
3
THAILANDWARD EFFECTED STOP VARIOUS MATTERS WHICH DISCUSSED
5
PARDIRECTOR GENERAL DURING EXPLANATION POLICIES INCLUDED
6
7
FIRSTLY CONSOLIDATION STRUCTURE SELFSUFFICIENCY SECONDLY
8
9
IMPROVEMENTPUBLIC WELFARE THIRDLY STRENGTHENING FINANCIAL
10
SYSTEM STOP ALSO CHARGED GOVERNORS SEE THAT INFLATIONARY
CONTINUE - CLOSE - EARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1789794

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
181
FREQ KC
FREQKC
11RS
FREQ KC
FREOKC
FADF
RST
WPM
MN
DESCRIPIION
11
823
GMI
TENDENCIES DONT SET IN FROM EXECUTION THESE VARIOUS NEW POLICIES
STOP OBSERVERS OPINED CONFERENCE WILL PROVE DEFINITE PROPELLING
FORCE ETCRYSTALLIZE MALAIS PREPARATIONS PROPROLONGED WARFARE
STOP EXPECTED THROUGH APPLICATION VARIOUS MEASURES REMARKABLE
PROGRESS IN ADMINISTRATION ECONOMICS CULTURE WILL REALIZED
END FUKUNO
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1000
NW TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
1131
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2030 JULY 13TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 27 MANILA 13/7 OFFICIALLY TELEGRAPHIC SERVICE
WILL COMMENCED 16/7 BY NEWLYESTABLISHED TELEGRAPH OFFICE AT
FABRICA NEGROSOCCIDENTAL PROVINCE PA
PARA 18 DJAKARTA 12/7 LEADING OFFICIALS JAPANESE MILITARY
ADMINISTRATION INCLUDING CINC JAPANESE FORCES DJAWA ETGOVERNORS
VARIOUS PROVINCES DJAWA ASSEMBLED TODAY IN SECOND CONFERENCE
s
1
JAPANESE MILITARY ADMINISTRATION OFFICIALS BTOP UNDERSTOOD
2
CONFERENCE HELD ORDER DISCUSS NEW MEASURES MILITARY ADMINISTRA-
TION IN VIEW REVENTLY ANNOUNCED JAPANESE GOVERNMENTS DECISION
ALLOW NATIVE INHABITANTS PARTICIPATE OWN ADMINISTRATION
PARA 19 RANGOON 13/7 REVEALED IN LINE CUMJAPANESE PLAN TRANSFER
510
IDLE SPINNING EQUIPMENT JAPANWISE SOUTHERN REGIONSWARD FIRST
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BMIARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPIS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
ANALYST
823
INDEXED BY
GMT
SHIPMENT JAPANESE SPINNING EQUIPMENT INCLUDING LARGE NUMBER
SPINDLES ARRIVED RECENTLY STOP RECALLED PLAN TRANSFER IDLE
SPINNING EQUIPMENT JAPANWISE SOUTHERN REGIONSWARD REACHED
LAST APRIL STOP EXPECTED MACHINERY WHICH BEEN TRANSFERRED
BURMAWARD WILL PLACED INTO IMMEDIATE USE ETGO FAR TOWARD
C
STABILIZING ECONOMIC POSITION BURMESE WEAVERS STOP OUTPOINTED
PRIOR OUTBREAK CURRENT WAR BRITISH AUTHORITIES PURSUANT POLICY
KEEPING BURMA COLONIAL STATUS PREVENTED HER EXUSING MODERN
1140
METHODS PRODUCTION INCLUDING USE MODERN SPINNING EQUIPMENT
STOP OUTPOINTED THERE LESSN TENTHOUSAND SPINDLES THROUGHOUT
BURMA TODAY 
PARA 2∅ DJAKARTA 12/7 REVEALED TWENTY PROMINENT DJAWANESE
OFFICIALS ETCIVILIANS WILL COMPOSE INSPECTION PARTY WHICHLL
VISIT JAPAN BEGINNING NEXT MONTH STOP UNDERSTOOD MEMBERS PARTY
BEING SELECTED PRESENTLY FROM DJAWANESE OFFICIALS EDUCATIONAL-
s
ISTS LITERATI STOP UNDERSTOOD TOEY REMAINING JAPAN MOREN
2
TWOWEEKS ETWILL GIVEN OPPORTUNITY INSPECT FIRSTHAND CONDITIONS
3
4
IN WARTIME JAPAN 
5
6
PARA 21 HANO1 13/7 FRENCH AUTHORITIES COMMUNIQUED SEVERAL
7
8
FORMATIONS AMERICAN AIRFORCE CHINAWISE YESTERDAY BOMBED MACHINE-
9
10
GUNNED THIRD ARMY DISTRICT WELLS AREAS NEAR ALONG RPT ALONG
2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
LDESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
823
INDEXFD BY
ANALYST:
GMT
BAY TONGKING PROVINCE KILLING THREE NATIVE INHABITANTE WOUNDING
1145
FIVE OTHERS STOP ALSO REVEALED GOVERNORGENERAL JEAN DECOUX
DONATED TENTHOUSAND PIASTERS PRORELIEF BOMBING VICTIMS HAIPHONG
HAIDUONG VINHYEN NAMDINH STOP MEANWHILE LEARNED COMMANDERIN-
CHIEF FRENCHINDOCHINA FORCES DEPARTED PROBOMBED AREAS ORDER
INVESTIGATE DAMAGE
PARA 22 TOKYO Z13/7 MARQUIS TOSHITAKE OKUBO RPT TOSHITAKE
DKUBO MEMBER HOUSE PEERS ETPRESIDENT JAPANGERMAN CULTURAL
SOCIETY DIED TOKYO HOME AGED SEVENTYEIGHT RESULT PNEUMONIA
ATTACK SPRING SYEAR VOP OKUBO THIRD SON LATE MARQUIS TOSHIMICHI
OKUBO RPT TOSHIMICHI OKUBO STATESMAN MEIJI ERE REPRESENTED
JAPAN AT SEVERAL INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCES INCLUDING PARIS
PEACE CONFERENCE STOP OKUBO ALSO ON BOARD DIRECTORS REDCROSS
SOCIETY JAPAN 
PARA 23 CANTON 13/7 OFFICIALLY MOREN TEN SINOFARMERS KILLED
1
WOUNDED VICINITY WHAMPAO ON SMALL ISLAND PEARLRIVER WHEN AMERICAN
2
3
BOMBERS INDISCRIMINATELY BOMBED MACHINEGUNNED CANTON AREA
5
YESTERMORNING
6
7
PARA 24 TOKYO 13/7 MAINICHI REPORTS EXBANGKOK ON HEELS VASTLY
8
9
IMPROVED FIRST RICEHARVEST COVERING JANUARY MAY CROP THAILAND
10
LOOKING FORWARD BUMPER SECOND YIELD FROM FIELDS PLANTED JUNE
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17764

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
181
FREQ KC
CALL
MORKS
FRFOKC
ORS
N八1
FREO KC
TT
FRFO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
LDESCRIPTION
823
CMI
JULY STOP REVEALED RESULT BENEFICIAL TEMPERATURES RAINFALLS
FIRST MARVEST PRONOREASTERN TERRITORIES TOTALED ONEMILLION
THREETHREEZERO THOUSAND THREEFOURNINE PICULS COMPARED NINESIX-
ZERO THOUSAND THREEFIVEFIVE PICULS FOR CORRESPONDING PERIOD
YESTERYEAR ALSO HARVEST PROAREAS ALONG CANTRAL STRETCHES
MENAM RIVER TATALED EIGHTZEROFIVE THOUSAND THREEEIGHTSEVEN
PICULS COMPARED FIVEZEROTHREE THOUSAND THREEFOURFIVE PICULS
YESTERYEAR P
PARA 25 DJAKARTA 13/7 LEARNED EDUCATION AUTHORITIES MAKING
T
ARRANGEMENTS OPEN AGRICULTURAL SCHOOL A MAGELANG BY MIDAUGUST
STOP SCHOOL WILL ENROLL THIRTY STUDENTS FOR THREE COURSE END
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1137
NW TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
s
1
2
3
9
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOE - EARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 1
TO UNIT:

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
ALIFORNIA7
WORKS:
CALL
FREQKC
7327--943
FREOK
NAT
π.
FREQ KC
GMT
NAL DESCRIPTION: TAPE ON 7327 BAD.
EMN
CHANGED TO 9430.
INDICAFORS:
M. SHOREY
INDFXED BY
ANALYST
GMT
JU0/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 183E JULY 18T BT
COPYRIGHT DOLI 18 MANILA 18/ 7 1 16 MANILA 18/7
SINCE ITS FOUNDING OCTOBER YESTEPEAR KANKIN RENRAKU SHO
BRACKET PUBLIC ASSISTANCE AND LIAISON OFFICE
UNBRACKET
DONE CREDITABLE WORK IN POPULARIZI G JAPANESE
LANGUAGE
HELPIIG UNEMPLOYED STTLING PERSDNAL DISPUTES ETATTENDING
0932
VARICUS
OTHEF NEEDS CIVILIA PIPULATI PHILIPPINES STOP
SITUATED METROPOLITAN THEATER BUILDI G OFFICE CRODED DAILY
BY HUDREDS PEOPLE SEEKI ALL KIDS ASSITA CE ICH THEY
RECEIVE PERSONALLY FRD JAPAYESE FILIPINO CLERKS STOP TOTAL
SEVEN HUNDRED STUDENTS PRECENTLY ENROLLED FREE ELLMENTARY
R
ETADVANCE COURSE JAPANESE BEIG OFFLRED BY KANMIN RENRAKU
SHO STOP JAPANESE LANGUAGE COURSE STARTED NOVEMBLR YESTER-
YEAR ENDING FOLLOWING MONTH WITH TWOHUNDRED GRADUATES WHILE
SECOND TERM BEGAN JANUARY TERMINATING MARCH WITH THREE-
s
LD
1
HUNDRED GRADUATES STOP ENROLLMENT INCREASED MOREN TWOFOUE
2
3
FOR PRESENT FOURMONTHS COURSE STOP DURING NINE MONTHS ITS
4
5
EXISTENCE RECEIVED ONETHOUSAND SIXTHREEFOUR PETITIONS ET-
6
7
HELD TWOTHOUSAND THREEEIGHTNINE PERSONAL CONFERENCES STOP
8
9
OFFICE ALSO SPONSORED TWENTYNINE INFORMAL MEETINGS CN VARIOUS
10
SUBJECTS SETTLED FIFEZEHOSEVEN PERSONAL DISPUTES PARA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788704

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.96)
GE TWO
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
1443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
CALTFORNIAOBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT..
FREO KC
GMT.
FADE
RST
WFM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICAT RS
BY.
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
AVALYST
GMT
17 BANJERMASIN SOUTHBORNEC 18/7 L GAUJERASI SOUTHBCRNEC
18/7 LEARNED ADMIISTRATI ATRITIES HLFE ACE
DECISION ESTABLISH BRCAOCA TI C STATI
AT PCTIA AK RPT
PONTIANAK WESTBORYEC STOP ALL CCESSARY PRLPAFATIC FOR
CONSTRUCTI COMPL:TEAID STATIO
EXPECIEDCECPLRA
TION BY END SEPTE EF PARA YZ/ZM
18 SHANGHAI 18/7 L 18 CHANGHAI 1/7 HAVI C SUCCLSF LLY
COMPLETED SERIES TALKS WITH LEADI C SINOFINANCIERS
INDUS
TRIALISTS LEADERS JAPANESE ECONDIC ISSIC TO CHIA HEADED
BY MASATSUNE OGURA JAPANARDED PLANEWISE 847 L 847 PARA
19 HDNGKNG 17/7 1 19 HONGK NG 17/7 INVIEW INCREASING
IMPORTANCE SUCH MINERALS AS LEAD TUNGSTEN OLYBDENU TI!
FOR DEFENSE INDUSTRIES EASTASIA HONGKONG GOVTGENERAL
AUTHORITIES SINCE JULY YESTEFYEAR BEEN PLANNING REOPEN
( )
A
U
CERTIN LEAD MINES HONGKONG WELLS TUNGSTEN MOLBDENUM
s
A
1
MINES IN KOWLDON AREAS ACCORDING ASAHI STOP ADDED OPERATION
2
3
943 ALREADYBEGUN THESE MINES WHILE INVESTIGATION TIN MANGANESE
4
5
ARON MINING SAME AREAS COMPLETED BY AUTHORITIES END BT
6
7
FURUNO DOMEI AR
8
9
10
NNM TU DE JUD/JAU2 VA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY
INTERCEPTS ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1798784

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.96)
HREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
WORKS
FREOKC
FREOKI
FREO KC
MT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION
FMN
M. SHOREY
ANAI YAT
GMI
CQ DE JUOGJAU2 V V V V V PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR N BC AT 33U
JULY 18TH BT
Y
S
COPRRIGHT DOMEI 2E THISIHAR 18/7 L TSITSIHAR 1/7
FURTHER DEVELOPMENT LIGHT ID TFIIS I CREASED AGII LT RAL
ANSION
LIVESTOCK PRODUCTIELLS EXP*******
RIVER TRAOPORT FACI
BY
1133 LITLES PLANNED ** MANCHOUKUO AUTHDRITIES ACCORDI G ASAHI
M
DISPATCH EXTSITSIHAR SAORNING STOP
(BREAK, RERUNS TAPE FRO BEGINNING CF THIS PAGE) (RESUE
AFTER DISPATCH EXTSITSIHAR SMORNING TOP)SAID SICE BEGINNING
SYEAR EIGH********MPANIES
ASSIGHED TASK DEVFLOP LIGT
R
INDUSTRIES WELLS INCHEASE FOOD PBODUCTION INCLUDING LUNG
KIANG SUISAN PRODUCTS COMPANY WHICH CONTROLS FISHING
NDUSTRY IN NONNI RIVER THIRD LARGEST RIVIR ANCHOUKUOWISE
YIELDING FORTY PERCENT COUNTRYS WHOLE FRESH WATER FISH
OUTPUT STOP MEANWHILE BRANCH PLANT KANEBD SPINNING COMPANY
5
NEXT
1
HERE WILL COMMENCE OPERATIDN PULP FACTORIES NEXYYEAR STOP
2
4
MANCHOUKUO DEVELOPMENT COMPANY REPORTEDLY SELECTED FIVE
1144
MILLION ACRES LAND LUNGKIANG PROVINCEWISE FOR JAPANESE
7
8
SETTLERS STOP SAID AUTHORITIES ALSD COMMENCED WORK ON
●
10
IRRIGATION PROJECT WITH CAPITAL YEN THIRTY MILLION TO
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 1

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN
THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ALIFORNIAOBS
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
PY:
M. SHOREY
INDFEXED PY
ANALYST
GMT
PARA
DEVELOP ONESEVENFIVE HUNDRED ACRES P*DDYFIELDS
21 MANILA 18/7 ML 21
1 VAILA 1E/7 KEEPI G PACE
OTHLF ECO CMIC
D
PROJECTS GOVEFNMENT VATIIZE CAPAICN ASSUFE SELFSUFFI-
C
CIENCY FOODSTUFFS PROGRLSIATISFACTCEILY ACFDIG
OFFICIALS DEPARTYET AGEILLTLTCRARCE TOP AID
PICE AS
PARTICULAF STRESS BEE GIVEI C LASE PRODUCTI
FE
STAPLE FOOD FILIPINC PEOPLE TOP STATED SCO NECTI
IRRIGATION SYSTE'S BEIC C TRUTC HILE EXISTI G S
BEING IMPROVED CRDEP AKE ADDITIAL TENTHOUSAD EETARES
LAND AVAILABLE PLANTING OF CEREAL STOP PRO RA INCFEASE
FOOD PRODUCTIONINCLUDES
TLACHING
FARMERS TO STOFE FCRTIL-
SSTOP CHOP ROTATISYSTEM
IZERS COMBAT PLANT PESTS DISEASES
ALSO FOLLOWED PURPOSE VARYING CROPS WELLS INCREASI G YIELD
STOP FIGURES SHOW PHILIPPINES IMPORTED PESOS THIRTYMILLION
FIVEHUNDRED THOUSAND WORTH FOOD PRODUCTS LAST TEIYEARS
8
1
INCLUDING RICE FLOUR STARCHES MILK MEAT EGGS VEGETABLES
2
3
FRUITS STOP DUE INTENSIVE FOOD PRODUCTION CAMPAIGN THESE
4
5
RAPIDLY BEING REPLACED LOCALLY GROWN FOODSTUFFS PARA
6
7
PEKING 18/7 ML 22 PEKING 18/7 WANG KEHMIN KX RPT WANG
KEHMIN CHAIRMAN NORTHCHINA POLITICAL AFFAIRS COMMISSID WHO
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.94)
E
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
ICALL
WORKS
ALIFORNIA
FRFQ KC
ORS
FRFO K
11
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMZ
NAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
N
BEEN NAKING TO CONFE ITH PRESIDET WAG CHINGEI OF
NATICAL GOVTCHINA RETUR E HERE AIP"ISE SAFTERNCON ED BT
FURUNI DC EI AR
N TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
1155 (END ITERCEPT)
S
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WOPKS:
FORNIA
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
6332
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
4825M
FADE
EMN
DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS.
INDICATORS
NO CODED MSGS.
ANALYAT
M.SHOREY
GMT:
133ø
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
SENTED BY ASAHI SHIMBUN VARICUS PAREPARATOFY SCHOOLS NAGANO
YAMANASHI SHIZUOKA NIIGATA PREFECTURES AT CERE ONY HELD
NAGAND YESTERDAY STOP FUNCTIONS ATTENDED BY LOCAL REPRESS
EXNAGANO PARA
29 LISBON 18/7 EXWASHINGTON UISTATES AVY DEPARTE T ANNOUNCED
AMERICAN MERCHANT SHIP SUNK I CARIBBEAN SONTH PAFA
3C TCKYO 18/7 MACAO POFTUGUESE TERFITORY SOUTH CHI A WHICH
PRIOR OUTBREAK GREATER EASTASIA WAR PROSPERED TOGETHE! ITH
HONGKONG AS CNE MAI CENTERS FORUTRADE SOUTHCHINA TCDAY
(DOTS) L PICTUFE OF
ITH OUTSIDE
CITY THAT LO T MOST COMMCICIAL INTERCOURSE
MARKETS ACCORDING ASAHI CORRESPONDENT MACAD STOP MACAO STILL
REMAINS COSMOPOLITAN CITY WITH RESIDENTS OF MOREN TEN
NATIONALITIES INCLUDIG CITIZENS ANTIAXIS COUNTRIES UPMAKING
s
ITS POPULATICN OF APPROXIMATELY THREEHUNDRED THOUSAND WHEREOF
2
3
EIGHTYFIVE PERCENT CHINESE STOP REPORTED MACAOS FINANCE
4
5
NOW UNDER ABSOLUTE CONTROL CHINESE MAINLY CONSISTI G CANTONESE
6
7
STOP SAID FIFTY PERCENT MACADS ANNUAL REVENUE COMES FROM
8
9
GAMBLING TAXES WHILE TWENTY PERCENT FROM OPIUM TAXES HOWEVER
10
2
PAT. NO. 17 
TO UNIT:

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
10
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
LE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
ALIFORNIA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
UY：
M. SHOREY
INDEXFD BY
ANALYAT
GMT
MACAD AUTHCRITIES INVIEW SHOPTAGE GENEFAL CO OITILO A'D
EVER INCREASI G EXPEDITURES PLACED UNDER EXTRE ELY DIFFICULT
FINANCIAL CONDITIONS STOP TICITERLSTING TE
TINED
CORRESPCNDET VARIETY FORNCURRENCIES BEINC CIFCULATED I
THIS TERUATINAL CITY OLUDIACAC DLLALI
FAPI
FYPI PRIVATE BANKNOTES **ENTRSL RESERVE BANK CTES HONGKONG
DOLLARS WELLS NIPPON MILITARY SCRIP STOP SIGIFICAT IS
SHARP DROP VALUE HONGKCG DOLLARS INCE FALL THAT BRITISH
GATEWAY EASTASIA ETIW EDIATE PURGE ALL BRITISH I FLENCE
EXHONGKONG STOP ADDED FACT HDNGKONG DOLLAR ARTH ONLY
E
FOURTH NIPPON ILITARY SCRIP AT THIS NEUTRAL PORTCITY
AMPLE INDICATION STEADY PROGRESS NIPPONS PROGRAM FOR
ESTABLISHMENT GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY SPHERE WELLS
RELIABLE BAROMETER ACTUAL INTERNATIONAL SITUATION PARA
( )
31 SHIZUOKA 18/7 LEARNED FIBER RESEMBLING COTTON NOW
s
1
OBTAINABLE FROM CORTEX OF STALKS SWEET POTATO PLANT ACCORDING
2
3
1
DISCOVERY IZUMZ SASAKI IMI IZUMI SASAKI NATIVE AITAKA
4
5
VILLAGE NEAR NUMAZU CITY STOP AFTER YEARS EXPERIMENTATION
6
7
SASAKI DEVELOPMED PROCESS OBTAINING FIBER FROM CORTEX STALKS
8
9
SWEET POTATO PLANT WHEREAS HERETOFORE STALKS DISCARDED AFTER
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 177

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.95)
E
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
18718
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
OBS
FREQ KC
NAI
FREO KC
I
FRIOKI
FADF
RST
WPA
AL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMi
TUBERS HARVESTED BUT OW THROUGH DISCCVERY FIVEHUDRD
FIFTYFIVE GRAS FIBEF OBTAINABLE FRC THRELPOINTOEVEN
KILOGRAMS SWEET POTATO STALKS STEYS STOP PROISI PLE
SASAKI REVEALE OUTPOINTIV STALKS UPPILED I DARK POC
LYING
AND ALLOWED FERMENT SO CDRTEX HICH LAYER TISSUE LAYIG
BETWEEN EPIDERMIS OR CUTER SKIN AD CENTRAL PORTICN ST
SEPARATED STOP CORTEX NCW TREATED CHE ICALLY TO PPO UCE
CLOTH FIBERS STOP AFTER CORTLX RE OVED STI S DRIID A D
REMAINING FIBER USED AS  ATELIAL FCR BRAID ORK ALSC
REVEALING HE ALREADY OBTAINED PATENT RIGHT FOR ABCVE
PROCESS PARA
G
32 RAN CON 18/7 RETURNING FRO RECENT TOUR SHONAN HERE
HELD IMPORTANT CONFERENCES "ITH NIPPOUS PREMIER TOJ DOCTOR
BAMAW CHIEF BURMESE GOVERN'ENT TODAY DECLARED PRESS
INTERVIEW PREPARATIONS BEEN ALMOST COMPLETED FOR BURMESE
s
1
INDEPEDENCE STOP BAMAW ALSO CONFERRED WITH PRESIDENT
2
9
SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE DURING
4
5
MX HIS STAY SHONAN STOP REVEALED SECOND CONFERENCE WITH
6
7
PREMIER TOJO FURTHER UNDERSTANDING REACHED BETWEEN HIM AND
8
9
NIPPONS LEADER FOR PUSHING PREPARATIONS FOR BURMAS INDEPEN-
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIOR!TY

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ALIFORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NA
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
M.SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYAT
D
GMT
DENCE TO FINAL STAGE STOP ADDED HE IN POSITION TO SFCLARE
PREPARATIONS FOR INDEPENDENCE ALMOST CO PLETED STOP SAID
HIS CONFERENCE ITH PREMIE! TOJD ALSO COVERED ALL IMPORTANT
PROBLEMS INCLUDING MAINTENAVCE PEACE ORDEF AND ECONOIC
QUESTIONS "ITHIN BURMA STOP YITH REFERENCE ITLRVIEW WITH
SUBH S CHANDRA BOSE BAMAW STATED REACHED COMPLITE AGREE-
MENT VIEWS ON CURRENT INDIAN SITUATIGN AND ETHODS FOR
ATTAINENT ANDINDIAN INDEPENDE CE STOP ALSC DI CLAIED HE
GAVE ASSURANCE CHANDRA BOSE EXTEND ALL POSSIBLE ASSISTAICE
FOR CAUSE INDIAN INDEPENDENCE STOP SAID PROPOSED ESTABLISHMENT
P
ALROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT FREE INDIA IS AAPRP APPROPRIATE
PLAN AND FUTURE MOVEMENT FOR INDEPENDENCE WILL SEVEEOP
WITH THIS ***DY AS CENTER ACTIVITIES STOP BAMAW HIGHLY
LAUDED NEW INDIAN NATIO AL ARMY WHICH COMPOSED FULLY TRAINED
( )
MEN STOP REVEALED DEFENSE ARMY OF BURMA ALSO BECOMING STRONGER
C
G
1
UNDER UIDANCE NIPPON FORES STOP ASKED HIS IMPRESSION
2
3
MALAI BURMESE LEADER STATED COMPLETE PEACE AND ORDER
4
5
BEING MAINTAINED STOP SAID THIS ATTRIBUTABLE FACT NIPPON
6
7
FORCES DEFENDING RORMEMOST FRONTLINES ALONG BURMAENDO
8
9
BORDER WITH ALLOUT COOPERATION BURUESE STOP SAID WHAT HE
10
2
PAT. NO. 1785784
TO UNIT:

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.95)
VE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CALIFORNIA
FREQKC
NAI
FREO KC
TT
FRFQ KC
FADE
RST
WPM
MN
GNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
INDE YIO BY
GMI
M
STRONGLY FELT FOLLOWINC TOUR DALAI IS RESPONSIBILITY
SH
WHICH BURMA SHOULD OULDER BECAUSE HIS COU TRY FORMS
ONE IMPORTANTEST LINKS OF GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPEFITY
AS FIRN
SPHERE STOP FOR WELFARE OF PERPLE EASTASIA HE
F
DETIRMINATION AND PRIDE IN DEFE DING BURA BY FULZILLING
BURMAS MISSION STOP SAID HE BEEN URGING HIS OWN BY
COUNTRYMEN TOBE ****** ASSUME DUTY AS DEFE DERS OF FOREMOST
EDGRAPHICAL POSITION STOP
FRONTLINES IN VIEW CF BURMAS
OF
******** EASTASIA COPROS-
CONTN**UDED
水*水水**水水****水*
RE
PERITY SPHLRE AND **ENDERING ASSISTANCE FOR ATTAINET OF
INDIAN INDEPENDENCE BURMA FULLY ETERMINED FULFILL MISSION
PARA
33LSBON 17/7 **************SPECIAL
AND VER****SALE LOCAL
一，
(BAD FADE, TAPE UNREADABLE)
s
DOMEI AR
1
2
3
1415
N *U DE JZG VA
(END INTERCEPT)
10
2
PAT. NO.
TO UNIT:

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.95)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONG
TO THE BECRSTARY
MAN
T. J. BLOWIE. SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
KASKINXTON X DX XI
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
July 24, 1943
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
ASSISTANT
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
2614
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
MR.
Washington, D. C.
BFRLE
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/143
Attached herewith are additional copies of Domel
Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
594.16
Very truly yours,
rterling
eaon
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
SE6-1943
and Chief,
FILED
Radio Intelligence Division
Attachments
gon gee
onfidential Fils
PS/LF
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND SAMPS

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CALIF
341
WORKS
FREQKC
CALL
13065
NAT
FREQ KC
ESS
TT
FREQ KC
565 25-30
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
AUTOMATIC.
INLICATORS
NO QRM, HEAVY QRN.
BY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
1558
CQ DE JAP/JUP VE PRESS DE JUP/JAP HR NW BC AT ∅52∅ JUL 2OTH
BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 03 TOKYO 20/7 1MI TOKYO 2&/7 QUALIFIED MILI-
TARY COMMENTATOR ELABORATING YESTER(BREAKS AND DOTS)
PRESS DE JUP/JAP HR NW BC AT 1&∅ JUL 2OTH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1 KARUIZAWA 18/7 1MI KARUIZAWA 18/7 VINGT-
DEUX ETUDIANTS EXREGIONS SUD TRAVAILLENT PENDANT ETE AD-
INSTITUT INTERNATIONAL ETUDIANTS QUI HABET SIEGE ESTIVAL
MONTAGNES KARUIZAWA STOP UN *ORTOIR EST RESERVED ETUDIANTS
CH
INDOXINE FRANCAISE ET PHILIPPINES ET AUTRE MAISON ABRITE
U
VISITEARS VENUS EXINDOCHINE FRANCAISE STOP TROISIEME DORTO-
IR EST OCCUPED PAR JEUNESFILLES THAILANDE ET INDOCHINE
FRANCAISE ET AUTRE ENCORE PAR ETUDIANTS INLOCHINE FRANCAISE
ET THAILANDE STOP APRES LEVER Ø53∅ IML Ø53E ET SALUT ADCOU-
LEURS NATIONALES ILS DEJEUNENT Ø7O IMI 7O PUIS TROIS
1
PROFESSEURS JAPONAIS DONNENT LECO* SUR BALCONS ADTROIS GROU-
2
3
PES DIFFERENTS PARMI LESQUELS FILS AMUASSADEUR THAILANDE
4
5
JAPONWARD STOP SPORTS COMPRENNENT BICYCLETTE EXCURSIONS
6
7
VIR SOIREE SETERMINE 21ØD ML 21Ø APRES MUSIQUE PARA
8
9
2 PEKING 19/7 IML PEKING 19/7 FORCES EXPEDITIONAIRES
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1774

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILI
12718
FREQ KC
ORS
FREQ KC
FREO KC
NAT
FRFO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
SNAL DFSCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
C,M
JAPONAISES NORDCHINE LANCANT SUCCEASIVEMENT IMPORTANTES
OPERATIONS DEPUIS DEBUT CTANNEE COMPRISE OFFENSIVE PRINT-
ANIERE TAIHSING CONTRE TROUPES CHUNGKING ETCOMMUNISTES IN-
FESTANT REGIONS MONTAGNEUS* NORDCHINE DONNERENT ADENNEMI
PERTES SEMONTANT CENTDIXSEPT NILLE MORTS PRISONNIERS ET
CONTRIBUENT AINSI EXTENSION INFLUENCE POLITIQUE GOUVERNMENT
E
NATIONAL CHINE ETMEMMTEMPS COOPERENT CUMGOUVTNATIONAL DANS
ETABLISSEMENT DIVERS INSTALLATIONS NORDCHINE COMME BASE
RAVITA**LYENT GUERRE PLUSGRANDEASIE DECLARENT CERCLES BUNI-
NFORMEDS PASSANT ENREVUE RESULTATS GENERAUX ENREGI****S
PARFORCES EXPEDITIONAIRES JAPONAISES NORDCHINE DURANT SIX
MOIS DEPUIS JANVIER CTANNEE BISTOP ENGAGEANT 8817 IMI 8817
COMBATS CUMTROUPES ENNEMIES FORCES JAPONAISES DETRUISIRENT
1765 IML 1765 INSTALLATIONS MILITAIRES ENNEMIES ETCOMPTER-
ENT 64515 1MI 64515 MORTS ENNEMIS ABANDONNEDS 43203 1MI
s
1
43203 PRISONNIERS GUERRE CAPTUREDS STOP TROPHEES GUERRE
2
3
REMPORTEDS COMPRENNENT 164 1ML
164 MORTIERS TRANCHEE SOIX-
5
ANTEBUIT MITRAILLEUSES LOURDES NEUFCENTS MITRAILLEUSES
6
7
LEGERES 41813 ML 41813 FUSILS 318 IML 318 FUSILS PISTOLETS
8
AUTOMATIQUES SANS COMPTER AUTRES ARMES MUNITIONS MATERIEL
10
2
TO UNIT:
PATo NO. T

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
EE
DO
NOT
WRITE IN
THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
3
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS.
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS
DY
GRIFFIN
INDIXIPPY
ANALYT
GMT
GUERRE STOP ENCOMPARAISON RESULTATS GENERAUX ENREGISTREDS
MEME PERI0DE ANNEES 1942 IMI 1942 ET 1941 1MI 1941 DIMINU-
TION NOMBRE ARMES ENNEMIES CAPTUREES ET EFFECTIFS ENNEMIS
CUMLESQUELS FORCES JAPONAISES ENGAGERENT COMBATS FST TRES
VISIBLE MAIS DAUTREPART NOMBRE CAPITULARDS DOUBLAIT ET NOM-
BRE CEUXQUI PARTICIPERENT SPONTANEMENT DEPASSE BEAUCOUP
CELUI DEUX ANNEES PRECEDENTES DISENT MEMES CERCLES COMMENT-
ANT RESULTATS GENERAUX STOP DIMINUTION NOMBRE MORTIERS TRAN-
CHEE ET MITRAILLEUSES LOURDES ENNEMIS CAPTUREDS INDIQUENT
DEFACTO DETERIORATION ARMEMENT ENNEMI STOP ELANDI**UE NOMBRE
CEUXQUI PARTICIPERENT SPONTANEMENT ARMEE GOUVTNATIONAL
COURS 1942 1MI 1942 SEMONTAIT SEULEMENT CINQUANTEMILLE CO-
*PRENANT GENERAL SUN LIANGCHEN VIRG GENERAUX WU HUAWEN VIRG
NING CHUNLIN VIRG YU HUAIAN ET KUO SHOUTIEN REJOIGNIRENT
18/1 1MI 18/1 CTANNEE ARMEE NANKING ENFEVIER GENERAUX LI
s
1
WENLI ET LI YUNGW*NG ENMARS HAN TZUCHIEN ENMAI GENERAL
2
E
E
3
PANG PINGHSUNG COMMANDANTCHEF 245 LML 245 GROUPE ARMEE UNI-
4
5
QUE ARMEE APPARTENANT DIRECTEMENT CHIANGKAISHEK NORDCHINE-
6
7
WISE LIEUTGENERAL SUN TIENYING COMMANDANT NOUVELLE CINQUIEME
8
9
ARMEE AMENANT PLUS CINQUANTEMILLE HOMMES ENJUIN LIEUTGENERAL
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17794

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CAIL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL.
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS
BY
GRIFFIN
ANALYRT
GMT:
JUNG TZUHENG ZONE SHANTUNG KIANGSU LIEUTGENERAL
CHUN
PREMIERE ZONE GUERRE ENNENIE COMNANDANT COLONNE
LI PEICHI
ENJUILLET LIEUTGENERAL CHANG PUYUN ZONE SHANTUNG STOP NOM-
BRE FORCES PARTICIPANT SPONTANEMENT GOUVTNATIONAL DEPASSE
CENTMILLE STOP AINSI DEBRIS TROUPES CHUNGKING ETCOMMUNISTES
NOKCHINE FUT COMPLETEME T BALAYEM ET CONSTRUCTION NOUVELLE
NORDCHINE SOPERE HAPILEMENT FIN BT
FURUNO DOMEI
1625
NM TU DE JUP/JAP VA
1630
130 JUL 2ETH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI £1 TOKYO 19/7 1MI TOKYO 19/7 PEOPLE JAPAN
T
HEARD PROFIRO MIME SAFTERNOON VOICE CAPTAIN ETSUZO KURIHARA
RPT ETSUZO KURIHARA SUCCESSOR TO CAPTAIN HIDEO HIRAIDE AS
SECTIONAL CHIEF IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS NAVYPRESS SECTION
WHEN NEW NAVY SPOKESMANS RECORDED ANNOUNCEMENT NEWEST JAPAN-
s
1
ESE NAVAL TRIUMPHAS CONTAINED SAFTERNOONS IMPERIAL HEAD-
2
3
QUARTERS ANNOUNCEMENT BROODCAST TO PUBLIC DURING SEVENINGS
4
5
NEWS HOUR STOP CLEARCUT TONE ETSAME NOTE CONFIDENCE AS
6
7
FORMER POPULAR HIRAIDE ALREADY HAVE WON PUBLIC ACCLAIM
8
9
PRONEW SPOKESMAN PARA
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17764

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
171443
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
UBS
CALL
FREQ'KC
FREO KC
NAT
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
FAN
GRIFFIN
INOEXID AY
ANALYST
GMT:
∅2 TOKYO 19/7 IMI TOKYO 19/7 SUNMARIZING ON BASIS IMPERIAL
HEADQUARTERS ANNOUNCEMENTS ETGIVING FURTHER DEIAILS TODAYS
IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS ANNOUNCEMENT NAVALLERS ESTIMATED
MOREN TWOHUNDRED SIXTYFIVE ENEMY PLANES DOWNSHOT PARJAPAN-
ESE FORCES SINCE BEGINNING PRESENT CAMPAIGN SOLOMONS WATERS
STOP DISCLOSED AMONG NINETEEN PLANES DOWNED PARJAPANESE
BOMBERS FIGHTERS RAIDING ROBIANA 15/7 IMI 15/7 IN BROAI DAY-
LIGHT ERE SOME ENEMYS LATEST MICHINES INCLUDING LOCKHEED
T
PEEHIRTYEIGHTS
VOUGHT CORSAIRS ETGRUMMAN FIGHTERS STOP OUT-
POINTED DESPITE PRESENCE APPROXIMATELY FIFTY ENEMY INTER-
CEPTORS JAPANESE RAIDERS ABLE INFLICT HEAVY DAMAGES UPON
ENEMY UNITS ETMILITARY INSTALLATIONS STOP NAVALLERS DEC-
LARED FOLLOWING DAY 16/7 1MI 16/7 IMPERIAL NAVAL AIRUNITS
OUTCARRIED POWERFUL ATTACKS AGAINST ENEMYS FRONTLINE BASES
INCLUDING ARIFIELDS ON GUADALCANAL TULAGI ON FLORIDA ISLAND
ETFURTHER REARWARH ON VANIKORO ISLAND AT NORTHERN PART SANTA-
2
3
CRUZ GROUP STOP OUTPOINTED AT VANIKORO JAPANESE RAIDERS
4
5
SUCCEEDED SCORING DIRECT HITS ON ENEMY WARSHIP ETABLE ASC-
6
7
ERTAIN WARSHIP LISTING HEAVILY WHILE DENSE COLUMNS SMOKE
8
。
ROSE EXHULL STOP STRESSED AT GUADALCANAL JAPANESE RAIDERS
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788706

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.95)
X
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
FILE
1.2718 187
FREOKC
ORS
FRFQKC
FRFOKC
NAT
rl
FRFOKC
LADE
RST
WI…A
SIGNAI DFSCRIPTION
M2
GRIFFIN
GM1
HAVE EXPLOSION AT ONE PLACE CAUSED LARGE FIRES THREE OTHER
PLACES STOP REVEALED REPORTS ASCERTAINED ENEMY SHIPS ANCHOR-
ED TULAGI SEVERELY DANAGED STOP DECLARED 17/7 IMI 17/7
FIFTYEIGHT OR NEARLY ONEHALF ONESIXSEVENENEMY PLANES WHICH
ATTEMPTED ATTACK JAPANESE BASE AT BUIN ON BOUGAINVILLE
ISLAND DOWNSHOT PARJAPANESE INTERCEPTORS STOP SIGNAL SUCCESS
ACHIEVED PARJAPANESE AIRFORCES SEEN IN FACT ONLY NINE JAPAN-
ESE PLANES LOST STOP DECLARED SUCH RAIDS ON ENEMY BASES
SOLOMONS AREA CONFIRM FACT ENEMY CONTRARY ITS BELIEF NOT
RPT NOT OPERATING OUTSIDE SPHERE JAPANESE AIR INFLUENCE
STOP NAVALLERS OUTPOINTED ENEMY OUTSET PRESENT CAMRAIGN EST-
T
ABLISHED BASES FAR EXJAPANESE POSITIONS THEN LAKER GRADUALLY
ADVANCED MATERIALS ETPERSONNEL FINALLY REACHING GUADALCANAL
STOP OUTPOINTED PRESENT CAMPAIGN IS ONLY EXTENSION ENEMYS
STRATEGY ADVANCING EXISLAND TO ISLAND HOPING ALWAYS THEIR
s
1
BASE WOULD OUTSIDE JAPANESE AIRINFLUENCE STOP HOWEVER JAP-
2
D
3
ANESE AIRUNITS DRIVING EEP INTO ENEMY TERRITORY HAVE PROVEN
4
5
ENEMY WHICH THOUGHT IT OUTSIDE REACH JAPANESE AIRARM OUTFOUND
6
7
IT WELL WITHIN BOMBING SPHERE JAPANESE AIRCRAFT END BT
8
9
FURUNO DOMEI AR
10
1648
NM TU DE JUP/JAP VA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATINO

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
ALIF.
807
(ORS
FRFOKC
7327
FREO KC
TT
FREO KC
2
577
25
FADF
RST
WPM
IMN
AL DESCRIPTION
DOMEI PRESS.
RAGE ONE
GRIFFIN
GMT
C
XQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS LE JUO/JAU2
0920
HR NW BC AT 183∅ JUL 19TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1& PEKING 19/7 1MI PEKING 19/7 JAPANESE
ARMY MOPPINGUP OPERATIONS DURING JUNE NORTHCHINA RESULTEI IN
FINLING EIGHTSEVENSIXTWO ENEMY DEAD INCLUDING FOURZEROFIVE-
EIGHT SINOCOMMUNISTS HEADQUARTERS JAPANESE EXPEDITIONARY
FORCES NORTHCHINA ANNOUNCED STOP JAPANESE TROOPS TOOK FIVE-
SEVENTWOONE PRISONERS WHEREOF ONESIXSIXONE COMMUNISTS STOP
SAID TWOSIXNINE MILITARY INSTALLATIONS INCLUDING TWOTHREE-
ZERO COMMUNIST ESTABLISHMENTS DESTROYED WHILE CAPTURED ONE-
S**ONE ARTILLARY PIECE FOUR ANTITANK GUNS THIRTEEN TRENCH-
MORTARS NINETYEIGHT HEAVY LIGHT MACHINEGUNS TWENTYSIX AUTO-
MATIC RIFLES FOURTHREETHREETWO RIFLES EIGHTNINESEVEN PISTOLS
STOP SAID HUGE QUNTITIES OTHER WARMATERIALS INCLUDING CLO-
THING MUNITIONS PROVISIONS ALSO SEIZED DURING JUNE CAMPAIG-
s
KI PARA
2
3
11 TOKYO 19/7 1ML TOKYO 18/7 IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS 1530 1M1
4
5
153 ANNOUNCED QUOTE IMPERIAL NAVAL AIRUNITS IN SOLOMONS
6
7
AREA OBTAINED 15/7 16/7 LML 15/7 16/7 17/7 FOLLOWING RESULTS
8
9
COLON FIRSTLY IMPERIAL NAVAL AIRUNITS ON 15/7 1MI 15/7 AT-
10
TACKED ENEMY POSITIONS ON ROBIANA RPT ROBIANA ISLAND INFLICT-
2
CONTINUE - CLOGE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT:NO 

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALI
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
F.MN
INDICATORS:
BY
PAGE
TWO
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
ING HEAVY DAMAGED SAMETIME ENGAGING ABOUT FIFTY ENEMY PLANES
WHICH COUNTERATTACKED DOWNSHOT NINETEEN STOP TEN OF OUR
PLANES UNYET RETURNED BASEWARD SECONDLY 16/7 1MI 16/7 ATTA-
CKED VANIKORO RPT VANIKORO ISLAND IN SANTACRUZ GROUP WELLS
TULAGI RPT TULAGI AND GUALALCANAL DANAGED ENENY VESSELS AT
ANCHOR THIRDLY 17/7 IMI 17/7 ENGAGED ONEHUNDREDSIXTYSEVEN
ENEMY PLANES WHICH RAIDED BUIN RPT BUIN ON BOUGAINVILLE
FT
ISLAND ETDOWNSHOT FIYEYEIGHT ENEMY PLANES STOP WE LOST NINE
PLANES UNQUOTE STOP IN ANOTHER COMMUNIQUE ISSUED SAMETIME
IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS REVEALED QUOTE FIRSTILY PART OUR GAR-
RISON UNITS ON NEWGEORGIA ISLAND CIRCLED AROUND TO REAR
ENEMYS FRONTLINE ETSURPRISE RAIDING ENEMYS LANDING POINT
WELLS MOTORIZED UNITS EAST AI RPT AI RIVER NIGHT 17/7 MI
17/7 INFLICTED HEAVY DAMAGE ON LANDING FACILITIES ALSO ON
TROOPS THERE ETSAMETIME OUTWIPED MOTORIZED UNITS STOP OUR
s
1
UNITS ARE CONTINUING OPERATIONS STOP SECONDLY OUR GARRISON
2
3
UNITS STATIONED NEAR MUNDA ON NEWGEORGIA ISLAND SEVERAL
4
5
TIMES REPULSED ENEMY FORCE SUPPORTED BY TANKS AND ON 17/7
6
7
IML 17/7 CANNONADED AND ROUTED ENEMY TORPEDO BOAT FLOTILLA
8
9
WHICH ATTEMPTED EFFECT LANDING PARA
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1798764

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
^11
FREO KC
NA
FRFQKC
TT
FRFO KC
FADE
RST
GNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
PAGE THREE
GRIFFIN
GMI
12 TOKYO 19/7 IML TOKYO 19/7 PREMIER TOJO ALDRESS MEETING
BU EEEEE GUBERNATORIAL IMI ADRESS MEETING GUBERNATORIAL
CONFERENCE SMORNING DECLARED HIS RECENT TRIPS TO CHINA
5OF SOUTH STR-
MANCHOUKUO PMILIPPINES THAILAD OTHER REGIONS
ENGTHENED HIS CONVICTION OF FINAL VOCTORY WARWISE ETSUCCESS
IN CONSTRUCTION GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY SPHERE STOP
URGING GOVERNMENTS REDOUBLE EFFORTS TOWARD MOBILIZING ENT-
C
IRE NATIONAL RESOURCES TOWARD PROSPEBTUION AR TOJO WARNED
STRENGTH ANGLOAMEHICAN POWERS MUST NOT BE UNLERESTIMATED
ETPEOPLE SHOULD WORK TO COORDINATE STRENGTH ONEBILLION
M
PEOPLES EASTASIA FOR ONE AIR STOP SAID SIGNAL VICTORIES
INITIAL STATE WAR SERVED BOLSTER FURTHER NATIONS MIGHT
STOP DECLARED PARUTILIZING STRATEGICAL SUPERIORITY JAPANESE
FORCES NOW ENGAGED DECIMATING ENEMY ATTEMPTING INVADE EAST-
ASIA WELLS MAKING OUR DEFENSE IMPREGNABLE AT SAMETIME PRE-
s
1
PARING FOR FINAL DECISIVE OFFENSIVE DELIVERABLE AT ANYTIME
2
3
STOP STATED GOVERNMENT OUTCARRYING DOMESTIC POLICIES AIMED
4
5
ACHIEVING STABILIZATION NATIONAL LIVELIHOOD ETSPEEDY EN-
6
7
HANCEMENT FIGHTING STRENGTH STOP TOJO REVEALED GOVERNMENT
8
9
PLANNING FURTHER POSITIVE MEASURE TO ATTAIN SELFSUFFICIENCY
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND: 

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
ORS
CA!L
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
BY:
PAGE
FOUR
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT
IN FOODSTUFFS ALSO PLANNING READJUSTMENT INDUSTRIAL ENTER-
PRISES ORDER OBTAIN MAXIMUN OUTPUT ESSENTIAL WAR MATERIALS
STOP SAID SIGNIFICANT POINT GOVERNMENTS POLICY IS TO
HAVE ALL JAPANESE ENGAGE IN USEFUL PURSUITS THEREBY CONTRI-
BUTING TOWARD NATIONS WAR EFFORTS WHILE ALL EXISTING IN-
DUSTRIAL FACILITIES WILL MOBILIZEL TOWARD SAME OBJECTIVE
END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1000
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2D30 JUL 19TH
BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 13 TOKYO 19/7 IMI 19/7 ASSU*ANCE BUMPER RICE
F
CROP PROJAPAN MADE TODAY PARMINISTER AGRIZORESTRY TATSUNO-
SUKE YAMAZAKI IN ADDRESSING ONEDAY NATIONAL GUBERNATORIAL
CONFERENCE STOP YAMAZAKI MADE ASSERTION ON BASIS REPORTS
s
EXOMNIPARTS JAPAN WHICH REVEALED GROWTH RICEPLANTS FAVORAB-
2
3
LEST PARA
4
5
14 OSAKA 19/7 ML OSAKA 19/7 CHEN CHUNHUI RPT CHEN CHUNHUI
6
7
CONSTRUCTION MINISTER NATGOVERNMENT CHINA ETHEAD VISITING
8
9
SINOINSPECTION PARTY REVEALED SINONATIONAL GOVERNMENT COM-
10
MENC-ING RECLAMATION WORK IN DELTAZONE YANGTZE RIVER SOME-
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY  INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 177A 

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
171443
12718 y8y
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
(AIl
FREQ KC
()12
REOKC
FREOKr
八
TT
FREOKC
.MT
FADE
RST
wim
GNAL DESCRIPTION
PAGE FIVE
GRIFFIN
GN
1135
TIME END SYEAR STOP CHEN WHO ARRIVED HERE POSTINSPECTION
VARIOUS RECLAMATION WORKS WESTERN JAPAN ASSERTED HE
RECEI-
VED NUMBER IMPORTANT POINTERS IN WITNESSING VARIOUS
RECLA-
LATIO PROJECTS JAPANWISE ETHE EXPECTED APPLY THESE IDEAS
IN RECLAMATION WORK ON YANGTZE RIVER DELTA STOP CHEN OUT-
POINTED PRELININARY SURVEY WORK ON RECLAMATION LAND ALONG
YANGTZE ALREADY BEGUN PARJAPANESE ENGINEERS ON EASTERN BANK
TAIHU LAKE PARA
15 MACASSAR 19/7 1NI NACASSAR 19/7 REVEALED MACASSAR SCIEN-
TIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE SUUDIRECTORSHIP DOCTOR ICHIRO SONO-
BE RPT ICHIRO SONOBE LESSN TWOWEEKS POSTITS ESTABLISHNENT
ALREADY HAD THREEPOINT IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE CLEARLY SETFORTH
STOP OBJECTIVES FIRSTLY EXTENSIVE STUDY METHODS ABOUTBRING
RAPID INCHEASE PRODUCTION FOODSTUFFS FIBROUS GOODS MATCH-
ING SPECIES WITH BESTSUITED SOIL ETWEATHER CONDITIONS
s
2
SECONDLY EXPLORATION UNTOUCHED ZONES PROMINERAL RESOURCES
3
ETINVESTIGATION INTO EFFECTIVER WAYS MINING DRESSING TREAT-
4
5
MENT ORES THIRDLY PREVENTION MALARIA FEVER ETATTAINMENT
6
7
SELFSUFFICIENCY PRODUCTION MEDICINES NEEDED **OPICSWISE
8
9
AC
10
STOP UNDERSTOOD INSTITUTE BUSILY PREPARING BEGIN NTUAL
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 178704

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE
THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OAS
FREQKC
CALL
NAI
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
L DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
PAGE SIX
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
WORK WHICH EXPECTED NEXT MONTH PARA
16 SHONAN 19/7 1M1 SHONAN 19/7 TYPICAL CF GREAT PATRIOTIC
F
VERVOR FILLING HEARTH OMNIINDIANS HERE IS ADMIRABLE GESTURES
N
MARAYANAN RPT S NARAYANAN TWELVEYEAR OLD INLIAN SCHOOLBOY
WHO IN LETTER TO EDITOR AZAD HIND RPT AZAD HIND ORGAN IND-
IAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE DONATED TO INDIAN INDEPENDENCE MOVE-
MENT YEN TEN EARNED PARHIM PROASSISTING AT DRAWING OF SECOND
TERM GOVERNMENT LOTTERY HELD RECENTLY STOP IN LETTER HE
WRITES QUOTE EYEM SENDING YOU YEN TEN TO FORWAPDED OUR
LEADER SU*HAS CHANDRA BOSE STOP EYEM ALSO GETTING ONE DOL-
LAR WEEKLY AS POCKET MONEY ETEYELL SEND THAT EVERYWEEK TO
OUR MOVEMENT STOP THIS ALL EYE HAVE ETEYE HOPE EVERY INDIAN
WILL GIVE ALL HE OR SHE HAS TO FREE OUR COUNTRY UNQUOTE PARA
17 SHONAN 19/7 IMI SHONAN 19/7 FAREWELL LUNCHEON PARTY SPON-
SORED PARJAPANESE MILITARY ADMINISTRATION HELD SAFTERNOON
1
2
PROMALAI REPRESENTATIVES WHO LEAVING HERE SHORTLY JAPANWARD
3
4
AT INVITATION JAPANESE GOVERNMENT STOP MALAI PARTY STAY
5
6
JAPAN TWOMONTHS INSPECTING JAPANS HOME FRONT PARA
7
8
18 MANILA 19/7 ML MANILA 19/7 COMMENTING WENDELL WILLKIE
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY  INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREO KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
DY
INDEXID BY
ANALYST:
PAGE SEVEN
GRIFFIN
GMT
BOOK QUOTE ONE WORLD UNQUOTE EXCERPTS WHEREOF APPEARED SUN-
DAY TRIBUNE JOURNAL EDITORIALLY DECLARED QUOTE SOCALLED
ALLIES CAN NOT EVEN PROPERLY CALLED ANTIAXIS DASH THEY MORE
ANTIALLIES THAN ANYTHING ELSE UNQUOTE STOP ALDED REQUOTE
NOW WE UNDERSTAND WHY WILLKIES FEELS SO GLCOMY ETHELPLESS
ESPECIALLY AS HE NO RPT NO REMELY OFFER UNQUOTE STOP DISGUST
WHICH WILLKIE FELT AT DISUNITY PREVAILING AMONG ANTIAXIS IS
JUSTIFIABLE COMMENTATOR SAID OUTPOINTING AUTHOR HIMSELF AD-
MITTED QUOTE TIS LITTLE EXPECT ANY VICTORY IN WAR WHICH WITH-
OUR DISTINCT PRINCIPLE ETPURPOSE UNQUOTE STOP ALDED REQUOTE
S
SADMINSION SIGNIFICANT ETSHOULD DEEPLY APPRECIATED UNQUOTE
STOP ADDED CONTRARY LA*K WARAIMS AMONG ANTIAXIS COMMA AXIS
POWERS MAINTAINED QUOTE UNSHAKABLE PRINCIPLE ESTABLISHING
JUSTICE OF NEW ORDER ETCLEAR PURPOSE CONSTRUCTING GREATER
SPHERE COPROSPERITY LONG BEFORE OUTBREAK WAR UNQUOTE STOP
s
1
ADDED SAMETIME JAPAN HAD SACRED ETHUMANE OBJECTIVE TO LIB-
2
3
ERATE ONEBILLION OPPRESSED ASIATICS STOP WHATSS MORE FILI-
4
5
PINO COMMENTATOR SAID QUOTE JAPAN PROVED SOUNDNESS PRFCIPLES
6
7
ETSINCERITY MOTIVES *ARRETURNING CHINAWARD SETTLEMENTS ET-
R
9
REVOKING EXTRATERRITORIAL RIGHTS WHILE CEDING FOUR PROVINCES
10
2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
A443
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
FRFQ KC
ORS
FREO KC
FRFOKC
RST
WPM
FADF
IGNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
PAGE EIGHT
GMI
MALAIWISE ETTWO SHAN STATES THAILANDWARD WHERETO THEY FORMER-
LY BELONGED STOP DECLARED SAMETIME BURMA PHILIPPINES ON
EVE INDEPENDENCE STOP OUTPOINTED QUOTE AMERICAS ENTRY INTO
WAR MOTIVATED PARDESIRE HAVE SUPREME CONTROL OVER WORLD
AFFAIRS ETINHERIT BRITEMPIRE AS INTEREST ON HEAVY INVEST-
MENTS IN WAR UNQUOTE END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1200
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2
s
1
2
3
4
6
7
8
9
10
2
PAT: NO: 1
TO UNIT:

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
70143
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
CALIF
385
CALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQKC
FREORC
6389
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
FADE
4625M
GMT
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
INDEXFD BY
ANALYAT
GMT:
HR NW BC AT 223 JULY 19TH
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 35 SHONAN 19/7 CAREWELL LUNCHEON PARTY
HELD AT TONAN CLUB HERE HONOR MALAI REPRESENTATIVES
WHO LEAVING NIPPONWARD AT INVITATIO
GOVERNMENT ON
TWOMONTHS TOUR INSPECTION ARTIME CONDITIONS PARA 36
MANILA 19/7 KALIBAPI LABOR TRAINING INSTITUTE WHICH
OPENED HERE MAY SYEAR TC INSPIRE WORKERS WITH SPIRIT
OF SERVICE TO STATE THROUGH INDIVIDUAL VOCATIONAL POSTS
SMORNING HELD SECOND COMMENNEMENT CEREMONY FOR MOREN
TWHOUNDRED GRADUATES STOP AMONG THOSE ATTENHING FUNCTION
WERE LEADING OFFICIALS MILITARY I DMINISTRATION
PHILIPPINE EXECUTIVE  COMMISSION INCLUDING CHAIRMAN
(TAPE UNREADABLE) RHILIPPINE EXECUTIVE COMMISSION STOP
CHAIRMAN VARGAS ADDRESSED GRADUATES STROUNGLY URGING
THEM DO THEIR SHARE SERVICE TO THEIR COUNTRY EACH IN
1
RESP ECTIVE VOCATIONAL FIELD ETTHEREBY BECOME LEADING
2
3
INFLUENCE IN CAUSE APPROACHING INDEPENDENCE PHILIPPINES
4
5
PARA 37 TOKYO 19/7 PEOPLE NIRRON HEAMD VOICE CAPTAIN
6
7
ETSUZO KURIHARA SUCCESSOR TO CAPTAIN HEDEO HIRAIDE AS
8
9
SPOKESMAN DAIHONYEIS NAVY PRESSECTION FOR FIRST TIME
10
SEVENING WHEN NEW NAVY SPOKESMAN READ PRESSWARD SAFTE-
DEBRLILLLANTACHLEVEMENTS
TNEE711

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
7143
TAKFN
FILE
FILE
12718
CALIF.
385
(ALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQKC
638
NAT
IT
FRFO KC
CMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
R-39
AA1YST
GM!
COI FIDENCE THAT WON GOPULAR ACCLAID FOR HIS PREDECESSOR
ALSO CHARACTERIZED NEW SPOCESMANS VOICE STOP SAMETIME
SPOKESMANS FIRST ANNOUNCEMENT OF SEVENTYNINE PLANES
DOWNSHOT OUT OF TWOHUNDREDSEVENTEEN ENEMY PLANES OVER
ROBIANA ETBUIN BEING AFCEPTED BY PEOPLE AS PORTENDING
CONTINUED GOODLUCK FOR IMPERIAL NAVY COMPARABLE WITH
F
THAT WHICH BEGAN WITH CAPTAI* HIRAIDES EIRST ANOUNCEMENT
OF BRIHLIANT IMPERIAL AVYS BICTORY AT PAL SAHBOR 38
TOKYO 19/7 QUARTERS CLOSE IMPERIAL ARMY ELABORATING
UPIMN SAFTERNOONS DAIHONYEI ANNDUNCEMENT REGARDIG
AN*IHILATIVE BLOW STAEUCK BY OUR LAND UNITS UPCN ENEM*
LANDING POINT EAST OF AI RPT AI RIVER NEWGEORGIA ISLAND
NIGHT 17/7 GAVE VIVID PICTURE SWEEPING OPERA*ION WHICH
UPLED TO THIS VICTORY STOP SAID SHOCK TROOPS NIPPON
M
s
ARY UNITS STATIONED NEWGEOR*IA SECRETLY CROSSED UPPER
1
2
REACHES AI RIVER UNDER COVER AIGHT 17/7 AND BY I*ORCET
3
4
NIGHT MARCH THR*UGH EXTREMEYY DIFEAICULT JUNDLE TERRAIN
5
•
SUCCEEDED IN FA*ANKING TO REAR OF ENEMYS LANDING POINT
7
8
FIVE KILOMETERS EAST OF AS RIVER STOP REVEALED NIPPON
9
10
TROOPS COMPLETELY SURPRISED POWERF*L ENEMY UNITS WHICH
PREPARINTN F*R NEXT OPERATION ETDEALT THEM CRUSHING
2
BLOTSTONSTDP SAMEQUAIERSBEVFALRAYANGIHERGDLUNRIORITY

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.95)
THREE
DO
NOT WRITE IN
THIS SPACE
170143
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
ANACALIF
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
CQ
TT.
FREO KC
GMT
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS
1Y
B-30
ANALYST
GMT
OUR FORCES INTERCEPTIG EE YC DETREAT CHAGE ETOUTWIPED
N
ENEMY MOTORIZED UNITC GARRICCHED IN CENTER ENEMYS 
LANDING AREA STOP ADDED SAMETI E  TFCOPS HRO THIS
LATTE*Y COLUNN D*ALT SEAVY DA AGES TC LANDING FACIE
ITIES ETOTHER ENIY TROCPS STATICNED THEREADOUTS STOP
DISCLOSED T*OOPS BOTS COLUMNS A*E GESL TLY ENYARGISC
SCOPE THEIR OPERATIONS IN VERY  IDST ETEY STNTP ONTINUED
ON LEFT BANK AI REVER UNITS BOTS ARTIES HAVE UPTAKEN
POSITIONS FACING EACH OTHER STOP *ID ENEMY WITH SUPPORT
*RTILLERY TROOPS NUMBERING FROM FIVE HUNDFED TO SIX
HUNDRED ATTEMPTED BREAK THROUGH SEVERAL TIMES BUT WERE
REPULSED WITH HEAVY LOSSES EACH TIE ETIMPERIAY ARNY
TROOPS FIRMLY HOLDING THEIR ORIGINAY POSITIONS
STOP
STA*ED OTHER I*ERIALARMY UNITS ARRISONED NEAR MUNDA ON
NEWGEORGIA ISLAND CONCENTRATED HDT ARTILLERY BARRAGE
s
UPON ENEMY SUPPORTED BY TORPEDO BOAT FYOTIYLA WHICH
1
2
ATTEMPTED LANDING NEIGHBORHOOD OF MUNDA POINT NIGHT
3
4
M
17/7 ETPUT ENEY TO HASTY FLIGHT STOP *AMETIME SADE
5
6
UNITS REPULSED NUMBER ENEMY OFFENSIVES INCLUDING TANKS
R
Q
。
ATTIMPTED IN ABOVE SE CTOR THESE UARTERS SAID STOP
i0
DECLARED THUS IN MIDST AIR LAND ETSEA BATTYE* CENTERING
ARDUEED NEVGEORGIA I*YAND ETWHICH GROWING FIERCER DAILY
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1774

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
A43
FILE
ACTIONIAKIN
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALIF.
385
wiks
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
6330
NAT
FREO KC
CQ
FRFOKC
MT
FADF
RST
wPM
GNAL DFSCRIPTION
IMN
1
R-39
G011
OUR TROD** LONTINUOUSLY STLIDIF*ING THEIR GOSITID*S
UNDER CLOSI COXRDINATION THEE LAND SEA ETAIF UNITS
STOP RBOVE QUARTERS ESPECIALLY STRESSID SIG IFICANCE
GREAT LOISES WHICH *EIC *UFINFREDEY ENEY FCLLOIG
EACH COUNTEROFFENSIVE CPEFATION ETIN EA H SIEFPRISE
BLD" DEALT BY DYNAMIC *PERIAL UNITS PARA 39 TOKYO
19/7 SIXTH DISPOSAL
OF
PATENTS AND SECOND DISPOSAY
O* TRADEMARK RIGHTS
OF
ENE Y NATIO*AYSMAKING SUCS
PATENTS TRADEMARKS AV1ILALE
FOF SPECIFIC AFEPLICANTS
ANNCUNCED TODA BY UREAU CF PATENTS STCP DISCYOSED
THIFTYSEVEN WATENTED ITENS DISPOSED OF SINCE SHREAUS
*AST ANNOUNCMENT MAKING TCTAL *NETH USAND FOUREIGHTSIX
STOP ALSO LEARNED UNISTATES RAT KS FIFST IN LIST DISPOSED
PAIENTS ITH ONETHOUSAND ZERO PIVENINE ITENS FOLLOWED
N
BY BRITAIN NETHERLANDS CANADA OTHERS PARA 4 LISBNT
s
9
18/7 ANTIAXIS BO*ERS RAIDED RCO ETVICINITY FOR IIIRSTTIME
1
2
3
OUTBREAK WAR SM*RNIN*
ACCORDING ALGIERS DISPATCH QETOTING
4
5
ANTIAXIS HEADQUARTER ANN*UNCE *ENT STOP THIS REPORT
6
7
CAUSED SENSAT* ON AMONG DOPNY CIRCLES ** VIEW STRONG
8
OPINIONS VOICED IN PAST AMONG BOTH NEUTRAY ETANTIAXIS
10
QUARTERS AGAINST ANY BOMDING OF CITY R*ME WITH ITS
HOY VATICAN ETNS MER TS PAE*CELESS HISTORIC RELICS
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT
WRITE IN THIS SPACE
0143
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
CALIF.
385
WORKS
CALL
FREQKC
F6370
NAT_
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
B-39
ANALYAT
GMI
CTOP
OBSERVERS HERE
INT RPR:TII THIS TEP A*EICAI 
AIRFOFCE
AS
EXPRESS*
AVELDISAPPCINTENT FELT Y
ANTE AXIS POWERS AT FAI*ULE DATTLE
OF RVES AGAIST
ITALIAN PEOPLE SE*P THESE GUAFTERS
POINTEDLY DETELARED
ABOVE BOM*UNG REPRESEN*S
RAZENSHIRT FROTERFCA BOMBING
TO CUTETOUT UNM UNMASKED
SAVAGE*Y AND VANDALISN F** HTING
TATRTICS STOP
H*WEVER O* SERVEAES
VOICED
CONVE
DETION
THIS CEIANGE
IN AT TIA*IS TACTIERI WOUL* SIMPL* AEESULT
M
IN MAKIGIT*I IT*** (DOTS)
NS
VOICES
CONVIC*I*TN THIS
CHANGE IN AN*IAX S TA*TICS WDULD *IMPLY RESULT IN MAKSG
ITALIAN PEOPLE MORE
** N*IIED RESIST SSREWDLY DIRE*
DIRE (DOTS) LY RESULT IN MAKE *ITALIAN *ECINLE
MORE
DETERMIN*D RESIST SHREWDLKE DIRECTED ANTIANIS OVERTURES
1*UTURE PARA 41 TO*K* 1/7 *DEARNED NACCORDANCE WITH
REVISED REDUALATIONS F*TR COMMENDATION WORKE FI*ST
s
GRANTING MONNING ET CONNUNICATIONS MINIS*RY STOP PEVEALED
2
YU*TE SAILORS FE*R COMN*NDATION *ORKER FIRST GRANTI**
3
4
***IN* AT CTMNN*N*C*E ONS MIT ISTRY STOP REVE*LED YUOTE
5
6
SAILTMR SERV*CE MEDALS UNMAUOTE WIAIL CRATINTI SERVICE
7
8
*OMMEND *TION ODN*S UNQU*TE WIDL MADE TO NINETTR TWO
9
10
SEAM N FOR DIS*NGUISHED SERVIECES AENDERED AT D* EMONY
TOMORROW MORAING AT COMMUNICATION MINISTR* STO* REVEALED
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178874

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
181
dF.
385
CALL
WORKS
FREO KC
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
6330
FREO KC
NAT
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WI…A
SCRIPTION
F-39
GM7
E*UOTE SAI*ORS SERVICE  DALS UN**OTE IL* CPA*******
MTRROS*XHUNDEH (DCTS) QUOTE SAILORS SERVICE MEDALS
UN*UOTE *IAI* SERVICE COMIAENDATION ODALS UNQUOTE WILL
MA*E **** YTR* **EA*EN FOF DITIYTUI*HED RVIE*E
RENDERED AT CEREM*I* T*ORECW OINI**AT *CUICATITNS
MINISTR** STOP LUEAAIED *U*** AE LO*S CERVICE *DALS
UNEK TO****ILL *NA**D TO**RRO* SITUH **AEETI FO*ETP 
SEAMEN TW*
TWE*T*O*E AFITIOE BO**ES THROUGS OFFICES
OF REGIONAL *ARITIE ALLAIAS BUREADS IN KC********
1427
NRGAYA **KODA* O*RD  ID *UAU***
ΔR
YA
(END OF INTERCEPT)
s
1
2
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATO

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALIF.
807
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
7327
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREO KC
576
30
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS
FMN
INDICATORS:
DY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT
9
0833
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
FOURONENINE SELECTED FROM MOREN THOUSAND APPLICATIONS PARA
13 MANILA 2/7 IMI 13 MANILA 20/7 DEEP INLIGNATION BORDER-
ING ON HORROR NARKED REACTION LOCAL CATHOLICS TO INDISC-
RIMINATE BONBING RONE
BY ANERICAN PLANES STOP ONE FILIPINO
**** THOLI* QUOTE TIS ACT VANDALISM PERPETRATED BY LAWLESS
IMMORAL COUNTRY UNQUOTE NONSIGNOR WILLIAN PIANI APOSTOLIC
DELEGATE SAID UNONLY FILIPINO CATHOLICS BUT ENTIRE CATHOLIC
(UNREADABLE)
UNQUOTE ADDED QUOTE A TIAXIS CANNOT HOPE GAIN ANYTHING BY
BOMBING ROME DASH AND IF ANYTHING TWILL ONLY BE MORE ENEMIES
UNQUOTE ASKED REQUOTE WHAT CAN BE HAD BY DESTROYING ROME
KNOWN THORUGHOUT WORLD AS CRADLE GREAT CHRISTIAN CIVILIZA-
P
TION QUERYMARK UNQUOTE STOP/IANI SAMETIME GREATLY INDIGNANT
BASILICA SANLORENZO WHICH HE REMEMBERED AS UNPARALLELED
S
1
RELIC ONE FIVE GREAT BASILICAS ROMEWISE ATTACKED STOP DEC-
2
3
LARED QUOTE BY ATTACK AMERICAN CONVINOED WORLD OF CRUELTY
4
5
HYPOCRISY WHICH LURKS BEHIND FINE WORDS FAIR PROMISES UN-
6
7
QUOTE STOP MEANWHILE MONSIGNORESAR MARIA GUERRERO AUZ
9
AUXILIARY BISHOP MANILA UPON RECIPT NEWS AMERICAN BOMBING
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788764

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
FILE
12718
FILF
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CAL
FREC KC
FRFOKC
NAI
TT
FRFO KC
A
FAOF
RST
WIM
GNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GM
ROME WHISPERED QUOTE RUTHLESS VANDALS EXCLAMATION UNQUOTE
F
DECLARED QUOTE WE CATHOLICS WILL NEVER ZORGIVE ANTIAXIS
FOR THIS ATTACK STOP NEVER FORGIVE ANTIAXIS FOR THIS ATTACK
STOP IT HARDENS MOREN EVER OUR DETERNINATION COOPERATE WITH
JAPAN IN WAR AGAINST ANGLOAMERICANS UNQUOTE STOP BISHOP
RECALLED HE SPENT SIX PLEASANT YEARS ROMEWISE DURING WHICH
HE OFTEN VISITED BASILICA SANLORENZO STOP CONTINUED QUOTE
DEPLORABLE IS TOO SOFT AYE WORD DESCRIBING MY REACTION HOR-
N
RIBLE ANTIAXIS ACT UNQUOTE STOP THAT ONLY AMERICAN AIRMED
PARTTOOK RAID MAY TRUE GUERRERO SAID ADDING QUOTE PERHAPS
ONLY BESTIAL AMERICAN MIND WHICH LACKS COMPLETE APPRECIATION
FINER THINGS LIFE PERPETRATE SUCH ACT STOP SO ITS NOT SUR-
PRISING AT ALL AMERICANS ALONE PARTTOOK THIS RAID UNQUOTE
PARA
14 TOKYO 20/7 IMI 14 TOKYO 20/7 AMBASSADOR RENZO SAWADA WHO
s
WILL DISPATCHED BURMAWARD PARGOVERNMENT AID PREPARATION
2
BURMESE INDEPENDENCEDECLARED WILL EXERT ALL HIS EFFORTS TO-
WARD PROMOTION FRIENDLY RELATION INTERJAPAN BURMA ETASSIST
THAT COUNTRY OBTAIN FULLY FDEPENDENCE STOP SAID BURMA ONE
OF MOST IMPORTANT MEMBERS GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
FREO KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFRIN
INDEXED DY
ANALYAT:
GMT
SHPERE MUST LINKED CLOSELY CUMJAPAN JUST AS JAPAN MANCHOU-
KUO CHINA INSEPARABLY UNITED STO? SAID AS HE NEVER BEEN
BURMAWARD HE ENTHUSIASTIC ABOUT HIS NEW POST PARA
15 TOKYO 20/7 M1 15 TOKYO 2E/7 ANNOUNCED LTGENERAL PRINCE
GIN LI RPT GIN LI APPOINTED COR MANDER ARMY AIRFORCE STOP
PRINCE LI SUCCEEDS LTGENERAL DUMAICHI TERAMOOTO END
0953
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2030 JULY 2UTH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 16 HANOI 2E/7 1MI COPYRIGHT DOMEI 16 HANOI
20/7 ANNOUNCED FIFTY NONCOMBATANTS KILLED WOUNDED WHEN
UNISTATES AIRFORCE CHINA AGAIN BOMBED TONKING AREA 18/7
G
19/7 STOP COMMUNIQUEWISE FRENCH INDOCHINA GOVZENERAL AN-
NOUNCED 17/7 AMERICAN PLANES APPEARED OVER TONKING AREA
( )
BOMBED HAIPHONG CITY ALSO SECTOR ALONG BAY FRONT STOP AD-
s
1
DED DURING FOLLOWING AFTERNOON TONKING AREA AGAIN BOMBED
2
3
RESULTING TENKILLED FORTY WOUNDED PARA
4
5
17/ HANKOW 20/7 ML 17 HANKOW 20/7 CEREMONIES PROFORMAL
6
7
TRANSFER FORMER ENEMY PROPERTIES HANKOW DISTRICTWISE PAR-
8
9
JAPAN NATGOVERNMENT CHINAWARED HELD TODAY IN PRESENCE
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17704

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
LE
FREQ KC
7
ORS
FRFQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
.MT
FADE
RST
WPM
L DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
NALYST
GMT
JAPANESE CONSULGENERAL TOMIO TAKATSU RPT TOMIO TAKATSU REP-
RESEING JAPAN ETSPECIAL FINANCIAL REPRESENTATIVE NATIONAL
GOVERNMENTS FINANCE MINISTRY IN JUPEI HUNAN KIANGSI WANG
CHANSHANG RPT WANG CHENSHANG STOP FORNER ENEMY PROPERTIES
TRANSFERRED TODAY TOTALLED SIXTYSEVEN ITEMS OUT OF ONETWO-
ONE ITEMS REPRESENTING VARIOUS CULTURAL ECONOMIC FACILITIES
STOP UNDERSTOOD FIFTYFOUR ITEMS WHICH STILL REMAIN TRANSFER-
RED WILL TURNED OVER SOOS VARIOUS INVESTIGATIONS COMPLETED
STOP REVEALED OF SIXTYSEVEN ITENS THIRTYNINE BRITISH NATION-
ALITY TWENTYSEVEN AMERICAN NATIONALITY ONE JOINT ANGLO-
AMERICAN NATIONALITY STOP ITEMS COMPRISED TWO AUTOMOBILE
PLANTS ONE FREIGHT PACKING FACILITY ONE FOOD MANUFACTURING
PLANT ONE PRINTING PLANT TWELVE BUILDINGS SEVEN ITEMS
LANDED PROPERTY FORTYTHREE SCHOOLS HOSPITALS PUBLIC AUDIT-
( )
ORIUMS MISSION HOUSE OTHER FACILITIES PARA
S
1
18 LEGASPI 20/7 LML 18 LEGASPI 20/7 OUTRAGEOUS AMERICAN
2
3
1143
AIRRAID ROME WHERE HOLY SEE SITUATED AROUSED INTENSE IRE
4
5
AMONG ROMAN CATHOLICS WHO CLUSTERED AROUND DRANCH OFFICE
6
7
DOMEI PRODETAILS AMERICAN ATROCITY STOP SAID REPORT HIS HOL-
8
9
INESS POPE SHORTLY SENDING PERSONAL LETTER PROTEST ROOSEVELT
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT ND S

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
1443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
INAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED HY
ANALYAT:
GMT:
CHURCHILLWARD CAUSING WIDESPREAD INTEREST AMONG LOCAL CATH-
B
OLICS STOP CATHOLICS HERE CHAKACTERIZED DOMBING ROME AS
GLARING INSTANCE AMERICAN CONTEMPT CATHOLICISM STOP CATHOL-
IC QUARTERS ASSERTED LATEST ANERICAN ACT BARBARISM IS POS-
ITIVE CHALLENGE AGAINST CHTHOLICISN BY JUIAISN AS REPRESENT-
ED PARANGLOAMERICANS STOP SAID HOW UNISTATES HARBORED EN-
MITY TOWARD PHILIPPINE CATHOLICS MADE CLEAR IF ONE FOLLOWS
PAS FORTYYEARS AMERICAN RULE ISLANDS STOP LACAL CATHOLICS
DECLARED TIS TRUE AMERICA PROFESSEDLY ALLOWED FREEDOM RELI-
A
GION AMONG NETIVE ISLANDERS HOWEVER TRUTH MATIER WAS AMERI-
CANS TRYING UNDERMINE CATHOLIC FAITH FILIPINOS THROUGH
EDUCATIONAL CULTUHAL ETSOCIAL CHANNELS PARTICULARLY THROUGH
MOTION PICTURES STOP STRESSED UNISTATES INDEED IS ENEMY
UNONLY PHILIPPINE CATHOLICS BUT OF CATHOLICS ALLOVER WORLD
P
( )
STOP DECLARED WROVIDENCE WILL METE OUT DUE PUNISHMENT TO
5
1
SUCH SATANIC COUNTRY AS UNISTATES PARA
2
3
19 TOKYO 20/7 1M1 19 TOKYO 20/7
COMMENTING APPOINTEMENT
4
5
RENZO SAWADA FORMER JAPANESE AMBASSADOR FEANCEWARD AS AMB-
ASSADOR BURMAWARD MAINICHI SEMIEDITORIALLY DECLARED TWILL
BE TREMENDOUS STIMULATING FACTOR TO BURMAS INDEPENDENCE
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788794

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
171443
FILE
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
OBS
FREQKC
FREO KC
NAT
FREQ KC
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
PREPARATIONS STOP SAID APPOINTMENT AS ANBASSADOR SUCH VETER-
ANY DIPLOMAT POSSESSING WEALTH EXPERIENCE FORNAFFAIRS CLEAR-
LY REVEALS WILLINGNESS JPAN ASSIST BURMA REALIZE ITS INDEPE-
NDENCE WELLS ACKNOWLEDGE IMPORTANT PART PLAYED PARBURMA IN
COPROSPERITY SPHERE STOP OUTPOINTED SAWADA WHO GOING BURMA
WHICHS ACHIEVING INDEPENDENCE WITHIN NEAREST FUTURE ONE
CAPABLEST MEN JAPANS FORNSERVICE HAVING SERVED AS VICEMIN-
ISTER FORNAFFAIRS AMBASSADOR FRANCEWARD STOP OUTPOINTED HE
S
ALSO WELLVERSED EATTASIA AS SERVED MANY YEARS DIPLOMATIC
SERVICE CHINAWISE PARA
20 SHONAN 2/7 IMI 2 SHONAN 20/7 ONEYEARS INTENSIVE WAR-
FARE FOUGHT NOT RPT NOT WITH GUNS TANKS AIRPLANES BUT WITH
TESTTUBES RETORTS MICROSCOPES HAS RESULTED VIRTU
OUTWIP-
ING DREADED MALARIA DYSENTRY TYPHUS DENGUE FEVERFROM SHONAN
H
STOP REVEALED JAPANESE MEDICAL EXPERTS ATTACKED TO MILITARY
ADMINISTRATION DURING SHORT TIME TWELVE MONTHS S CCEEDED
FIRST CURBING ETRECENTLY STAMPING OUT DREADED DISEASES MAL
ARIA DENGUE FEVER WHICH WAGED DURING BRITISH ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIAL WHEREOF UNCONCERNED HOW MANY NATIVES DIED EPIDEMICS
LONGS DISEASES UNRAVAGED WHITE RESIDENTS STOP UNDERSTOOD
THOUSANDS NATIVES COOPERATING IN DRIVE OUTSTAMP CONTAGIOUS
TO UNIT:
PATS NO

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
(ALl
OBS
FREQ KC
CALL
NAI
FREO KC
TT
FRFO KC
OMT
FADE
RST
LMN
DESCRIPTION
H
GRIFFIN
GMI
DISEASES DAILY CLEANED DRAINS POOLS DITCHES ETAPPLIED ANTI-
MALARIA OIL PREVENT MOSQUITO BREEDING STOP PARALLEL CUMTHIS
WORK DOCTORS UNDER MILITARY ADNINISTRATION OUTCARRIED COM-
PULSORY INOCUI ATION ANTIMALARIA ANTIDYSENTRY A TITYPHOID
SERUMS ALSO VACCINATIONS PROSNALLPOX STOP EFFECTIVENESS
MEASURES TAKEN PARJAPANESE AUTHORITIES SEEN IN FACT NOT SIN-
GLE MALARIA OR DENGUE FEVER BEEN REPORTED SYEAR END BT
1205
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
s
1
2
3
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT NO 

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
ONE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
12718
CALIFORNIA41
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQKC
13050KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
DE5
GMT
AL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS.
EMN
NO QRM OR QRN.
INDICATORS:
BY:
M.SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYAT
GMT:
CQ DE JAP/JUP
1501 VE PRESS DE JUP/JAP HR NW BC AT  JULY 21TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 01 TOKYO 2/7 LMI COPYRIGHT DO EI 1 TOKYO 23/7
THAT JAPAN CONTINUES HELD STRATEGIC SUPERIORITY OVE: UNIS-
TATES FOE DESPITE UNALTERABLE QUOTE PACIFIC FIRST UNQUCTE
POLICY UNISTATES ASSEFTED PARLIEUTCOMMANDER KENGD TOINAGA
S
RPT KENGO TOMINAGA MEMER NAVY PRESS BECTIN IPEIAL HEAD-
QUARTERS IN LENGTHY COMMENTARY EXPLINING UNISTATES CCUNTER-
R
OFFENSIVE ANTIJAPAN STOP TCINA A STRESSED GUCTE PACIFIC
FIRST UNQUOTE PRINCIPLE BEEN UNCHANGING POLICY UNISTATES
SINCE OUTBREAK WAR ETJAPAN BEEN ETCONTINUES BE AIN TARGET
UNISTATES WAROPERATIONS STOP OUTPOINTED UNISTATES WHICH
SWIFTLY OUSTED EXGREATER EASTASIA AT OUTSET PRESENT WAR
PARTICIPATED IN TEN NAVAL BATTLES VARIOUS INTENSITIES SI CE
CORAL SEA BATTLE ETAPENT ALMOST ONEYEAR SACRIFICING NOT
2
RPT NOT EASILY REDEEMABLE NAVAL FORCE COMPRISING BATTLESHIPS
3
ANTIAIRCRAFT CARRIERS PROCAPTURE SINGLE ISLAND GUADALCANAL
STOP DECLARED JAPAN HOWEVER CONTINUES SECURELY HELD STRATETIC
SUPERIORITY OVER ENEMY STOP OUTPOINTED AMERICA INCREASINGLY
10
WORRIED PARFACT JAPAN WILL ATTAIN ABSDLUTELY INVINCIBLE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1798796

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
ALE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
ALIFORNIAOBS
WORKS
CALL.
FREQKC
NAT.
FREQ KC
π
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
CY
M. SHOREY
INDEXED RY.
ANALYST:
GMT
WARSTRUCTURE CUMABUNDANT S UREES SHE NCW POSSESSES HCUL
SHE BE GIVEN TIE COMMENCED PRESENT COUNTLROFFLNSIVE
WHEN
P
COMPLETION NORTHAFRICAN CAMPAICN PERITTED EF SPAPE
TRCO
MATEIIALS SHIPPI G SPACE PROPACIFIC OPLRATISTOP DECLARED
FURTHERI ORE DOMESTIC PROCUCTIO UNISTATESWISE REACHED PEAK
U
WHILE RISING COST LIVING ETMOUNTI G FREQUENCY LABOR TRCUBLES
CALLED PROSIFT ACTIC ERADICATE ICPEASI G PESSI IS STOP
ADDED AMERICA MOREOVER DETLRINED SECURE CONTROL AUSTRALIA
一
STOP TOINAGA DECLAREANOTHLF DO ANT FACTOR CALLIG
PROIMMEDIATE ACTIAPPRDACHING PRESEDENTIAL LLECTIOXT-
YEAR WHEREIN ROOSEVELT ASPIRES RUN PROFOURTH TE STOP
S
OUTPOINTED
ON OTHERHAD BRITAI TOO FULLY RE LIZES
IMPORTANCE AID AUSTRALIAARD HI H TOGETHEF CUMIDIA FORMA
BASIS BRITISH EMPIRE STOP HCWEVER BRITAIN TOC DUSILY
T
OCCUPIED FIGHTING GERMANY ITALY IT CANNOT BOTHER AOUT
1
EASTASIA THUS LEAVING FIELD CLEAR PROUNISTATES STOP
2
3
TOMINAGA OUTPOINTED SINCE THREE BRITCRUISERS APPEARE IN
4
5
FIRST BATTLE OFF SOLOMONS NONE PARTICIPATED SURSEQUENT
6
7
PACIFIC OPERATIONS STOP OUTPOI TED IN PRESENT SOUTHWESTERN
8
9
C
PAIFIC OPERATIONS UNISTATES STRATAGY NOT RPT NOT ACQUIRE
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.95)
THREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS
SPACE
71443
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE 12718
CALIFORNIA
CALL
FREO KC
OBS
WORKS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
T7
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
NAL DESCRIPTION
EMN
M. SHOREY
GMI
ADVANCE BASES PARCAPTURE ONE ISLAND POSTANOTHER BUT GAIN
S
CHANCE SMABH JAPANESE NAVY ETTHEREBY SECURE CC TROL OVER
P
AACIFIC AREA STOP OUTPOINTED UNISTATES CO TRARYWISE SUFFERED
BITTER LOSSES IN AVAL BATTLES AROUND GUADALCANAL STOP
TOMINAGA OUTPOINTED BECAUSE TERRIFIC NAVAL LOSSES UNISTATES
RECENTLY ALTERED STRATEGY ETNOW USING AIRFORCE AS PRINCIPAL
W
A
EAPON VIEW FACT SHE ABLE REPLACE AIRCRAFT RAPIDLYER THAN
BATTLESHIPS CARRIERS CRUISERS STOP TOMINAGA CUTPOI TED
UNISTATES FOLLOWING PELATIVELY EASY CHEAP METHOD ORDER
PUSH
ADVANCE BASES STOP TOLINAGA DECLARED IN PLANNIG SUCH
STRATRGY UNISTATES FOUND AUSTRALIA AS INDISPENSA LE BASE
VIRTUE ITS GEOGRAPHICAL POSITION STOP UNISTATEW FOUND OWN
MAINLAND TOO FAR AWAY WHILE EVEN SUPPLIES EXHAWIII FORCED
RUN RISK RUNNING THROUGH DANGERZONE STON OUTPOI TED JAPANS
LINE STRATEGY MEANWHILE FIRMLY ESTABLISHED WEST NEWGEORGIA
s
1
ISLAND CUMTRANSFER YESTERSPRING JAPANESE FORCED EXGUADAL-
S
2
CANAL STOP JAPANS LINE STRATEGY BEEN DAGGER POINTED DIRECTLON
4
UNISTATES AUSTRALIA COMMUNICATION LINE STOP ADDED SUBCIR-
●
7
CUMSTANCES UNISTATES FOUND IT VITALLY NECESSARY ATTEMPT
D
SEVER JAPANS LINE STRATEGY THOUGH KNOWING WELL ATTEMPT
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO 

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
JR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
ALIFORNIA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
L DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICAIORS:
LY
M.SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
BOUND COST TERRIFIC SACRIFICES STOP TOMINAGA PICTURED
UNISTATES SETTING UP TREMDNDOUS LIE SEADEFE SE CUMAMEFICAN
MAINLAND CONN CTED CUMHAAIIA ILANDS CANTCL E'DER URY
SAMOA GUADALCAVAL ETNEWGUI EA IOP CUTPOI TE BEHING THIS
FIRSTLINE DEFENSE
WILL
SUPPLYLINE THROUGH "HICH ENEMY ITENDS
TRANSPORT WARMATERIALS
PROFORTHCOMING ALLOUT COUNTEROFFENSIVE
AGAINST JAPAN DASH AYE
COUNTEROFFENSIVE WHICH BEEN HINTED
X
PARAMERICAN SECRETARY NAVY KNOX STOP TOINAGA RECALLED UISTATES
MILITARY COMMENTATOR STATED ANERICAN BATTLESHIPS AIRCRAFT
CARRIER WILL MAKE APPEARENCE ONLY WHEN ARENA PROTHEIR
ACTIVITY OPENE) STOP ADDED THUS
IT BECOMES NECESSAPY PRO-
P
JAPAN REGARD PRESENT UNISTATES OPERATIONS ACIFICWISE AS
LINK IN BIGGEST OST SYSTEMATIC COUNTE OFFENSIVE EVER
ATTEMPTED SINCE START PRESENT WAR STOP TOMINAGA OUTPOI TED
CONLUSION CURRENT CONFLICT NOW ENTERING STAGE DECISIVE
8
AERIAL WARFARE STOP OUTPOINTED RATID CTEMY PLANES DOWNED
2
3
CUMJAPANESE PLANES WHICH UNHAVE PETURNED
WHICH RETURNED
4
5
OR WHICH DELIBERATELY CRASHDIVED INTO ENEMY OBJECTIVES
6
7
VARIED DURING VARICUS STAGES FIGHTING BUT NEVEF RPT NEVER
8
9
DROPPED BELOW FOUR TO ONE RPT FOUR TO ONE WHICH RATION
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY -- INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788764

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.94)
PAGE FIVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3-071443
FILE
12178
ACTION TAKEN
43
FILE
FRFQ KC
ANACALIFORNIA
115
FRFOKC
NAI
FREO KC
rl
FRFO KC
OM
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAI DFSCRIPTION
IMN
M. SHOREY
1
GN
PRESENTLY BEING MAINTAINED END BT
FURUNC DCMEI AR
NM TU DE JUP/JAP VA
1535
CQ DE JAP/JUP VE PRESS DE JUP/JAP HR NW BC AT 1 JULY 21ST BT
27/7
1600
COPYRIGHT DOMEI Z1 MACASSAR Y MI COPYRIGHT D EI 1
MACASSAR 20/7
E
OCCASION OBSERVATION TROISEME QUNTE JOUR ARIN NQUOTE
JOURDHUI ADJAPAO*** CMNIPARTIES SPHERE COPRO.P RITE
ASIEORIENTALE 41S JEUNEC IDONESIENS FURENT ADIS DANS
INSTITUT FDRMATION  ARINS  ACASSAF STOP DUVEAUX ETUDIANTS
SELECTIONNUDS DETRE ILL*CA DIDAT VIVANT EXONNIPARTIES CEL-
EBES ENTFERENT DANS ET AINEET IEDIATENET APRES
J
CEREMONIE ENTREE STOP ONRAPALLE PI CMIER GROUPE
88 *EUNES
INDONESIENS FINIRENT ETUDES RECEMMENT ET SONT MAINTENANT
ANSERVICE DANS MERS PLUSGRANDEASIE PARA
s
1
02 TOKYO 20/7 1ML 02 TOKYO 20/7
2
3
SAMAJESTE EMPEREUR RECUT ENAUDIENCE CTAPRESMIDI MAMORU SHIGE-
4
E
5
MITSU MINAFFETRANGERES QUI FIT RAPPORT DETAILLED RECENTE/
7
SITUATION INTERNATIONALE ADTRONE ET REPONDIT QUESTIONS
8
SAMAJESTE PARA
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND. 1

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.96)
x
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CALIFORNIA
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT.
FREQ KC
T
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
BY:
M.SHOREY
INDEXEDBY
ANALYST
GMT:
3 SHONAN 2E/7 SHONAN ML 3 HONAN 2Z/7 SHONAN CU*ETAIT
D
FOYER SPIDEMIES ABJOURS SUBGOUVERNEMENT ANGLAIS EST
S
MAINTENANT EXEMPT MENACE  ALARIA DYSENTERIE TYPHUS DENGUB
GRACO FFORTS INLASSABLES AUTCRITES MEDICALES AD INISTRATIO
MILITAIRE JAPONAISE STOP DEPUI ETABLISSE E T UNYN
AUPARAVANT AD INISTRATI ILITAIRE JAPOVAISE O ILISA
MILIIERS COOLIES M DMIJOUFS PCUR CAMPAGNE ANTINOUSTIQUE
NETTOYANT FLAQUES EGOUTS ETANGS :T REPANDANT HUILL ET
FAUCHANT HERBES STOP PALALLELEMCNT CUMCAMPAGNE ADMINISTRA-
T
TION MILITAIRE MIT ENVIGUEUR INOCULATION OBLICATOIRE HABI-
TANTS DONT RESULTAT EST TELQUIL NYA PAS MEME UN CAS
MALARIA NI AUTRE EPIDEMIE PARA
4 HANKEOU 20/7 LML  4 HANKEOU 20/6 CEREMONIE TRANSFERT
FORMEL PARTIE BIENS ENNEMIS DISTRICT HANKEDU PARJAPON ADGOU-
( )
VTNATIONAL CHINE EUT LIEU JOURDHUI ICI ENPRESENCE CONSUL-
s
1
GENERAL TOMIO TAKATSU REPRESENTANT JAPON ET WANG CHENSHANG
2
3
REPRESENTANT SPECIAL FINANCIER GOUVTNATIONAL DANS PROVINCES
4
5
HUPEN HUNAN KIANGSI AINSIQUE FONCTIONNAIRES ET CIVILS
6
7
S
BIPAYS STOP AVOIRS ENNEMIE TRANEFEREDS COMPRENNENT 67
a
9
FACILITES ECONOMIQUES ET CULTURELS DENT** 121 SETROUVANT
10
HANKEDU WUCHANG STOP RESTE CERA TRANSFERED DESQUE INVES-
2
TIGATION SURA FINI STOP DENTRE 67 AXOLRS T ANSEEREDS JOURDHUI
TO UNIT:
CONTINUÉ
CLOSE
PAT. NO. 179974

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.96)
SEVEN
71443
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE 12178
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
FRFO KC
FREO KC
NAI
FREO KC
17
FADE
RST
WPM
CMT
AL DESCRIPTION
FMN
M.SHOREY
GM1
39 SONT BRITAVOIRS 27 AMAVOIRS UN BPITAMERICAIN LESQUELS
COMPRENNENT DEUX FACILITES AUTONCBIL S UNE FABRIQUE EBALLAGE
UNE FABRIQUE DENREES ALIMCNTATIREC UNE I PFMERIE DOUZE
IMMEUBLES SEPT TERRAINS QUARANTETROIS ECOLES HOPITAUX HALLS
PUBLICS ETABLISSEMENTS MISSIONNARIRES PARA
05 MANILLE 20/7 1ML 5 MANILLE 20/7 QUOTE RAID AMERICPN
ADVEUGLETTE CONTRE ROME DECOUYRIT SAUVAGERIE AMERICAINS
QUI MALGRE HUMANITARISME PROCLAMED CHOISISSENT PAS OYENS
PIA
POUR ATTEINDRE BUT UNQUOTE DECLARA GUILLAUE PAYNS DELEGUE
APOSTOLIQUE PHILIPPINESWISE STCP NONSEULEMENT CATHOLIQUES
PHILIPPINS MAISENCORE OMNICATHOLIQUES MONDE SERAIENT
INDIGNEDS CTATROCITE AMERICAINE CONTINUA PIANS RAID CONTRE
ROME SERVIRAIT SEULEMENT EXCITEF DEUANTAGE HOSTILITE PAYS AXE
CONTRE SEFLEMENT EXCITER DEVANTAGE HOSTILITE PAYS AXE CONTRE
PAYS ANTIAXE STOP AMERICAINS POURRAIENT PAS DETRUIRE CIVILI-
SATION CHRETIENNE PAR DESTRUCTION RCME AIS ILS NEFERONT
NI
QUE INDIGNER ONMICHRETIENS MONDE AFFIRMA PIAN PARA
D6 HANOI 20/7 ML 6 HANDI 20/7 AUTORITES GOUVTGENERAL
INDOCHINE FRANCAISE ANNOUNCERENT 19/7 APRESMIDI ET 2D/7 MATIN
QUOTE AVIATION AMERICAINE CHINEWISE BURVOLANT 18/7 REGION
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
EIGHT
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS
SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT.
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
BY
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
TONKIN BOMBARDA HAIPHONC ET BAIE ALONC ET BLESSA DEUX INDI-
GENES MITRAILLANT DANS TROISIEME DISTRICT ILITAIRL
STOP
REGION TONKIN FUT BOMBARDED PAR AVIATION AMERICAINE
CHINEWISE
19/7 APRESMIDI STOP VICTI ES CONNUES JUSQ: E MAINTENANT
SUITE BOMBARDEMEYT HAIPHC G SON DIX MORTS CUARATE BLESSEDS
INDIGENES RESPECTIVEMENT UNCUOTE FIN BT
FURUNC DEMEI AR
1625 NM TU DE JUP/JAP VA
(HOLDS KEY DOWN)
163≈ CQ DE JAP/JUP VE
PRESS DE JAPJUP HR NW BC AT 13 JULY 21ST BT
COPYRIGHT DOEI
01 TOKYO 20/7 1ML COPYFIGHT D0:E1 31 TOKYO 2/7
THAT JAPAN CDNTINUES HELD STRATEGIC SUPERIDRITY OVEI UNISTATES
FOE DESPITE UNALTERABLE QUOTE PACIFIC FIRST UNQUOTE POLICY
UNQSTATES ASSERTED PARLIEUTCOMMANDER KENGO TOMINAGA RPT
S
1
KENGO TOMINAGA MEMBER NAVY PRESS SECTION IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS
2
E
3
IN LENGTHY COMMNTARY EXPBINING UNISTATES COUNTEROFFENSIVE
4
5
(CONTINUES, REPEATING ENTIRE D1)
6
7
1703 (END INTERCEPT)
9
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1785794

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
74807
WORKS:
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
TT.
FREO KC
20
GMT.
WPM
ESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
823
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
CQ DE JUP/JUQ VE
PRESS DE JUB/JUQ HR NW BC AT 140∅ JULY 2ØTH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 22 ROME 19/7 ? COPYRIGHT DOMEI 22 ROME 19/7
STROMG VIGOROU PROST BELIEVED BEEN MADE UNISTATESWARD REGARDI
BOMBING ROME BY MONSIGNOR MONTINI VICESECRETARY PAPAL STATE WHEN
ONCALLED UISTATES CHARGEDAFFAIRES TITTMAN FEW HOURS AETER
AMERICAN AIRRAID 
PARA 23 MANILA 20/7 ? 23 MANILA 20/7 ENROLLMENT FIRST SEMESTER
SYEAR IN DIFFERENT COLLEGE UNIVERSITY HILIPPINES TOTALLED
ABPROXIMATELY ONETHOUSAND
*UNIVERSITYAUTHOR
ITIES STOP    MEDICINE REGISTERED LARGEST NUMBER STUDENTS
WIT TOTAL FOUREIGHTTHREE FOLLOWED BY THREEONEZERO IN COLLEGE
ENGINEERING THREEHUNDRED IN JUNIOR COLLEGE TWOZEROTHREE IN AGRI-
CULTURE ONENINEZERO IN PHARMACY AND THREETWOZERO IN NURSING AND
OTHER SCIENCES STOP TENDENCY AMONG STUDENTS TAKE SCIENCE ENGINEER-
EN COURSES INDICATES GROWING AWARENESS AMONG YOUTHS NEW PHILIP-
2
3
PINES IMPORTANCE SCIENCE TECHNICAL TRAINING IN FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
4
5
COUNTRY
6
7
PARA 24 TOKYO 20/7 ? 24 TOKYO 20/7 FUTURE PATH SUBHAS CHANDRA
8
9
BOSE CARRYING PLANS ON ONE MAND FOR PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT INDIA
10
ETON OTMER POWERFUL ARMED FORCE ETSUPPORTED BY NIPPONS JUSTICE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1798764

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
ORS
FREO KC
FREO KC
TT
FREQ KC
MT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
DESCRIPTION
823
GMI
GENEROSITY MUST CONSIDERED AS LEADING HIM TO GOAL NATIONAL LIBERATION
ETINDEPENDENCE DECLARED EDITORIAL CHUBU NIPPON LEADING JOURNAL
CENTRAL JAPAN STOP SAID BOSES ASSUMPTION PRESIDENCY INDIAN INDEPEN-
DENCE LEAGUE IS SIGNIFICANT IN LIGHT HIS FIRST STATEMENT TOKYO-
WISE SWORD MUST EMPLOYED TO COUNTER SWORD ETHIS DECLARATION SHONAN-
WWISE HE PREPARED ORGANIZE PROVISIONAL INDIAN GOVERNMENT STOP
SAID HIS ASSUMPTION PRESIDENCY QUOTE MAS ARMED INDIAN INDEPENDENCE
LEAGUE UNQUOTE STOP UNSCRUPULOUS BRITPROPAGANDA DESCRIBED INDIAN
PEOPLE AS HARDLY RACE FIGHTERS BUT THERE NO RPT NO GREATER EVIDENCE
THEIR COURAGE THAN THEIR LONG UNARMED STRUGGLE PROLIBERATION
PAPERS PAPER ASSERTED ADDING INDIANS QUOTE WORLDS MOST COURAGEOUS
RACE UNQUOTE STOP STATED INDIANS INABILITY OBTAIN INDEPENDENCE
SO FAR CAUSED BY LACK UPTODATE ARMS THROUGM BRITPOLICY REGARD
INDIANS DISARMED STOP CHUBU NIPPON DECLARED ARMING OF DETERMINED
( )
GROUP FREE INDIANS ABRO UNDE  ABLE LEADER GUARANTEES 
s
ULTIMATE VICTORY INDIAN NATION IN ITS DECISIVE WAR AGAINST BRITAIN
2
3
STOP SAID PROVISIONAL INDIAN GOVERNMENT PROPOSED PARBOSE MUST
BE DISTINGUISMED APART FROM DOZEN OR SO REFUGEE GOVERNMENTS LONDON-
WISE FOR TNIS PROVISIONAL INDIAN GOVERNMENT BEARS HISTORIC SIGNI-
FICANCE LIBERATING INDIAN PEOPLE LONG OPPRESSED UNDER BRITYOKE
10
PARA 25 BUENOSAIRES 19/7 9 BUENOSAIRES 19/7 ALARMGNG INGREASE
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
823
INDEXED DY
ANALYRT:
GMT:
MENTAL CASES UNISTATESWISE REVEALED WHEN COLONEL HALLORAN REPORTED
PRESENTLY MENTAL CASES ENTERING HOSPITADS AT RATE TWENTYSEVEN
PER THOUSAND MEN ANNUALLY OR ABOUT TWENTYFOUR TIMES HIGHERN
CIVILIAN RATE 1938 ? 1938 ACCORDING NEWYORK TIMES 1/5 ? 10/5
H
ISSUE RECEIVED HERE STOP SAID MENTAL CASES SECOND ONLY TO BATTLE
WOUNDS ETMALARIA AS CAUSE FOR HOSPITALIZATION AMERICAN SOLDIERS
IN COMBAT AREAS STOP OUTPOINTED CONTINENTAL UNISTATESWISE TWO-
POINT FIVE PERCENT ALL SOLDIERS ADMITTED HOSPITALS ARE MENTAL
CASES BUT FIVEPOINT FOUR PERCENT THOSE WHO REMAIN HOSPITALS SUFFER
MENTAL TROUBLE STOP EMPHASIZED PRESENT RATE MENTAL CASES WITHIN
P
UNISTATES CLOSE FIRST WORLD WAR RATE TEN TO FOURTEEN MONTHS AFTER
UNISTATES ENTERED WAR STOP SID EVEN AFTER SEVENTEEN MONTHS THAT
WARWAR TWAS UNUSUAL ADMIT FORTYFOUR MEN PER THOUSAND ANNUALLY
STOP IN PRESENT WAR STARTING RATE MENTAL CASES APPROXIMATELY
FOURTEEN OR ABOUT SAMES WAORLD WAR NUMBER ONE AND INCREASE THIS
1
TIME BEEN SIMILAR THAT TWENTYFIVE YEARS AGO STOP SAID HOEVER
2
3
STATUS OVERSEAS MENTAL PROBLEMS CAN DESCRIBED ONLY ROUGHLY STOP
4
5
FROM FIFTEEN TO TWENTY PEROENT ALL CASUALTIES BEING RETURNED
6
7
UNISTATESWARD NEUROPSYCHIATRIC HALLORANESAID ADDING IN CERTAIN
8
9
UNIDENTIFIED WAR THEATERS FIGURES BEEN FORTY PERCENT ALL CASUALTIES
10
STOP HOWEVER UP TILL JANUARY SYEAR FIVE PERCENT AZLEHOSPITAL
INTERCEPTSPRIORITY
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE- CLOSE - BEARINGS (  PRIORITY

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKFN
FILE
12718
FREO KC
FREOKC
NAT
FREO KC
FRFO KC
FAOF
RST
IMN
L DESCRIPTION
823
GMI
CASUALTY ADMISSIONS IN WHAT HALLORAN DESCRIBED QUOTE WITHOUT
FURTHER IDENTIFICATION UNQUOTE WERE NEUROPSYCHIATRIC
PARA 26 MACASSAR 20/7 ? 26 MACASSAR 20/7 LEARNED MACASSAR SCIENTIFIC
RESEARCH INSTITUTE WHICH CREATED 7/7 ? 7/7 UNDER IRECTION DOCTOR
ICHIROSONOBE RPT ICHIRO SONOBE NOW BUSY SELECTING ITEMS FOR STUDY
ETINVESTIGATION STOP UNDERSTOOD INSTITUTE HAS ALREADY INFORMALLY
DEC'DED INVESTIGATE METHODS INCREASING PRODUCTION FOODSTUFFS
FIBROUS GOODS COMMA STUDY OF UNEXPLORED REGIONS FOR MINING COMMA
DRESSING TREATMENT OF ORES COMMA PREVENTION MALARIA FEVER AND
PRODUCTION MEDICINES NEEDED IN TROPICS STOP TIS EXPECTED INSTITUTE
WILL FORMALLY UPDRAW SUBJECTS FOR INVESTIGATION DURING AUGUST
STOP ALSO DISCLOSED INSTITUTE WILL INSTALLED IN NEW BUILDING NOW
BEING ERECTED END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NW TU DE JUP/JUQ YA
s
1
PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 150 JULY 2ØTH BT
2
3
COPYRIGNT DOMEI 03 MANILLE 19/7 ? 03 MANILLE 19/7 INSTITUT TRAVAIL
KALIBAPI AUGURED ICI MAI CTANNEE PAR ASSOCIATION BALIBAPI POUR
PROPAGER ESPRIT SERVICE AD ETAT PARMI TRAVAILLEURS AUMOYEN VOCAT-
IONS INDIVIDUELLES CELEBRA CEMATIN SECOND FOIS ENTREE DEUXCENTS
10
CANDIDATS STOP ETAIENT PRESENTS UONCTIONNAIRES ADMINISTRATION
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
923
BY:
INDFXED BY
ANALYAT
GMT:
MILITAIR VIRG REPRESENTANTS BUREAU ADMINISTRATION MILITAIRE JAPON-
AISE ET JORGE VARGAS CHEF COMMISSION EXECUTIVE PHILIPPINES STOP
DANS DISCOURS AUX NOUVEAUX ELEVES VARGAS RECOMMANDA SERVIR PAYS
CHACUN ADSON POSTE INDI*IDUEL DEVENANT INFLUENCE DIRIGEANTE POUR
INDEPENDANCE PHILIPPINES PA
PARA 4 TOKYO 20/7 ? 4 TOKYO 2/7 SON ALTESSE PRINCE IMPERIAL
LIEUTGENERAL LI GIN FUT NOMMED COMMANDANT FORCES AERIENNES ARMEE
ACONCED CEMATIN MINISTERE GUERRE STOP SON ALTESSE PRINCE IMPERIAL
LI ETAIT AMMACHED MEMES FORCES DEPUIS AOUT ACEE DERNIERE ET SUCCEDE
LIEUTGENERAL KUMAICHI TERAMOTO PA
PARA 05 BANGKOK 2Ø/7 ? 5 BANGKOK 2/7 CONSEIL REGENT THAILANDE
NOMMA OFFICIELLEMENT 19/7 ? 19/7 GENERAL BRIGADE PRACHON PATCH-
ANUK COMME VICEPRESEDIENT ASSEMBREE REPRESENTANTS PEUPLE STOP
ONSERAPPELLE QUE PATCHANUK FUT ELU 15/7 ? 15/7 VICEPRESIDENT
LADITE ASSEMBLEEE COMITE SECRET SE*ION PLENIERE ASSEMBLEE 
PARA 06 SHONAN 20/7 ? 08 SHONAN 20/7 RECEPTION DEPART MISI1ON
INSPECTION JAPON QUINZE FONCTIONNARIES INDIGENES MALAI ET QUINZE
EXSUMATRA FUT ORGANISEE 19/7 9 19/7 PARADMINISTRATION MILITABRE
JAPONAISE ETDEPARTEMENT PROPAGANDE STOP DECISION DTENVOI MISSION
FUT PRISE PARADMINISTRATION MILITAIRE JAPONAISE ENVUE RENFORCER
LEUR COOPERATION DANS ETABLISSEMENT SPHERE COPROSPERIT PLUSGRA-
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788760

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
AMILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
ORS
FREO KC
FREO KC
NA
77
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION
FMN
IND
11
823
ANALYST
GMI
NDEASIE ENLEUR FAISANT VOIR VRAI ETAT JAPON ENTEMPS GUERRE 
PARA 07 TOKYO 20/7 ? 7 TOKYO 20/7 GOUVERNEMENT ANNONCE JOURD-
HUI NOMINATION RENQO SAWADA EXAMBASSADOUR JAPON FRANCEWARD
COMME AMBASSADEUR PLENIPOTENTIAIRE BIRMANIWARD STOP INVESTITURE
EUT LIEU CEMATIN PRESENCE SAMAJESTE IMPERIALE ADPALAIS IMPERIAL
STOP AMBASSADEUR SAWADA SOCCUPERA AFFAIRES CONCERNANT INDEPEN-
DANCE BIRMANSE 
PARA 08 TOKYO 20/7 ? 8 TOKYO 2/7 RENZO SAWADA NORVEL AMBASSADOUR
T
JAPON BIRMANIE EST DIPLOMATE NED AYANT COMMENCED CARRIERE AUSSITON
SORTIE UNIVERSITE IMPERIALE TOKYO EN 1914 STOP NATIF PREFECTURE
TOTTORI AMBASSADEUR EST MAINTENANT AGED CINQUANTESEPT ANS STOP
COMMENCA CARRIERE PARIS ET FUT MEMBRE DELEGATION JPONAISE CONFERENCE
PAIX PARIS 1919 STOP 19 FIT PARTIE DELEGATION JAPONAISE CONFER-
ENCE WASHINGTON PUIS SERVIT TROISIEME SECRETAIRE LEGATION JAPON-
AISE BUENOSAIRES STOP MONTANT RAPIDEMENT ENGRADE FUT BIENTOT
PREMIER SECRETAIRE AMBAMSADE JAPON CHINE QUIS 1926 OCCUPA POSTE
2
DIRECTEUR SECTION TELEGRAMMES MINAFETRANGERES TOKYO STOP 1930
CONSEILLER AMBASBADE JAPON PARIS POUR ALLER ENSUITE COMME CONSU-
LGENERAL NEWYORK 1934 STOP REVINT CHINE 1936 COMME CONSEILLER
AMBASSADE JAPON PUIS OCGUPA POSTE VICEMINISTRE AFFAIRESETRANGERES
10
DANS CABINET BONOYE STOP EN 19J6 FUT AMBASSADEUR PARIS JUSQUEN
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - MEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND. 

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CAIL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
π.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
823
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
DECEMBRE 194D STOP VEILLE DEPART POUR BIRMANIE AMBASSADEUR DEC-
LARA CORRESPONDANT DOMEI QUOTE JESU*S FIER AI*ER UN PEUPLE
ACQUERIR INDEPENDANCE UNQUO
PARA 09 TOKYO 20/7 ? 9 TOKYO 2/7 RENZO SAWADA NOUVEL AMBASSADEUR
PLENIPOTENTIAIRE BIRMANIE DECLARA ENTREVUE PRESBE DONNEE MINISTERE
AFFAIRES PLUSGRANDE ASIE APRES INVESTITURE PALAIS IMPERIAL COMATIN
RELATIONS AMICALES ENTRE JAPON BIRMANIE STOP IL DIT QUE DURANT
FONGUE CARRIERE DIPLOMATIQUE IL NAVAIT PAS EU OCCASION VISITER
BIRMANIE ET QUE SON COEUR DEBORDE ZELE ENTHOUSIAME ET INTERET
POUR NOUVELLE TACHE STOP SOULIGNA BIRMANIE ETAIT UN MEMBRE DES-
PLUS IMPORKNTS SPHERE COPROSPERITE PLUSGRANDE ASIEORIENTALE ET
QUE JAPON BIRNIE DOIVENT ETRE AUSSI UNIS SPIRITUELLEMENT QUE
JAPON BIRMANIE DOIVENT ETRE AUSSI UNIS SPIRITUELLEMENT QUE JAPON
MANDCMOUKUOUO CHINE STOP DECLARE INDEPENDANCE BIRMNIE PROCHE
COMME PROMIT PREMIER TOJO ET SA MISSION BIRMAIIE SERA FAIRE ARR-
s
1
ANGEMENTS PRELIMINAIRES CEIDEPENDACE AVEC DIRIGEANTS BIRMANIE
2
3
STOP PARA 10 MANILLE 19/7 ? 10 MANILLE 19/7 GRACE EFFORTS COMITE
4
5
PREPARATORIE INDEPENDANCE PHILIPPINES ET AIDE ADINISTRATION
6
7
MILITAIRE JAPONAISE ARRANGEMENTS POUR INDEPENDANCE CEPAYS POG-
8
9
RESSENT FAVORABLEMONT STOP OBSERVATEURS PHILIPPINS DECLARENT
10
INEPENDANCE PROMISE PAR JAPON DIFFERE RADICALEMENT CELLE PROMISE
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE -- CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788796

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKFN
12718
FREQ KC
OBS
FREQKC
FREO KC
NAI
T1
FRFO KC
.MT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION
IMN
INI
823
GMI
PAR ETATSUNIS STOP JAPON AIDE PHILIPPINES PRENIRE MESURES PREP-
ARATOIRES INDISPENSABLES AFIN REMETTRE AUTORITE AUX PHILIPPINS
EUXMEMES POUR REALISER RENTISSANCE REUR PAYS KNDIS QUE AMERIQUE
PREVYAIT LNGUE PERIODE 1934 AD 1946 DURANT LAQUELLE AUCUNE M**
URE AIDE EFFICACE NETAIT PREVUE POUR PHILIPPINES STOP INDEPEN-
DANCE PROMISE PAR AMERIQUE ETAIT SEULEMENT MOYEN SEDEBARASSER
FINANCIEREMENT PHILIPPINES ET SOUS REGIME AMERICAIN ENTIRER STRU-
CTURE ECONOMIQUE FINANCIERE CEPAYS DEPENDAIT ETATSUN* STOP JAPON
AUCONTRAIRE LANCA MOUVEMENT INDEPENDANCE RAVIKILLEMENT VIRG
2
EXPANSION PRODUCTION INDUSTRIE LEGERE VIRG FOURNIT MATERIEL IN-
DUSTRIE TEXTILE AMENAGEA PROJET AUTOSUFFISANCE COMBUSTILES STOP
PHILIPPINS PEUVENT DONC APREECIER SINCERITE EFFORTS JAPON QUI
DEVELOPPE LEURS RESOOURCES ETABLIT RESSEAU COMMUNICATIONS SIBIEN
UNE SEULE ANNEE DEMIE ADMINISTRAION MILITAIRE JAPONAISE ACHEVA
REAJUSTEMENT INDUSTRIES IMPORTANTES STOP DOPUIS INCORPORATION
s
BUREAU AFFAIRES MARITIMES AD ADMINISTRATION MILITAIRE BUREAU TA
2
TNSPORTS PHILIPPINES ET ASSOCIATION CONSTRUCTION NAVALE ONT ETE
ETABLIS VIRG PHILIPPINS COMMENCANT ENTRAINEMENTECOMME MARINS STOP
BATEAUX BOIS SONT CONSTRUITS DANS CHANTIERS PHILIPPINS OMNIEFFORTS
CONTRIBUANT REELLE INDEPENDANCE PHILIPPINES FIN BT
10
FURUNO DOMEI AR
41 N TU DE JUP/JUQ YA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE
PAT: NO: 1

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CAL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
UY
823
ANALYAT
GMT:
CQ DE JUP/JUQ PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 16∅∅ 20/7 BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 31 SHONAN 2Ø/7 DISCLOSED OFFICIALLY YESTERDAY
TASUKU ITO RPT TASUKU ITO CHIEF AGRICULTURE ETFORESTRY DEPARTMENT
BEEN PROMOTED CHIEF CIVIL ADMINISTRATOR SUCCEBDING KANICHI NAITO
RPT KANICHI NAITO WHO APPOINTED MAYOR SHONAN SPECIAL MUNICIPALITY
STOP ITO NEW CHIEF CIVIL ADMINISTRATOR BORN AICHI PREFECTURE
GRADUATED TOKYO IMPERIAL UNIVERSITY 1926 STOP ENTERED SERVICE
AGRICULTURE FORESTRY MINISTRY 1927 STOP LATER BECAME CHIEF ECON-
OMIC DEPARTMENT SHIGA PREFECECTURAL OFFICE TILL 1941 WHEN HE
ASSUMED POST CHIEF CONTROL ETINVESTIGATION SECTION BUREAU AGRIC-
ULTURE ETFORESTRY MINISTRY STOP APPOINTMENT AS CIVIL ADMINISTRATOR
SOUTMERN REGIONS MADE MAY 1943
PARA 32 TOKYO 2/7 ALLOUT EFFORT FOR FURTHER PROMOTION FRIENDLY
RELATIONS BETWEEN JAPAN BURMA PLEDGED BY RENZO SAWADA RPT RENZO
SAWADA NEW AMBASSADOR PLENIPOTENTIARY WHOLL DISPATCHED BURMAWARD
NEAR FUTURE IN PRESS INTERVIEW AT MINISTRY GREATER EASTASIATIC
2
3
AFFAIRS SMORNING SOON AFTER HIS INVESTITURE AT IMPERIAL PALACE
STOP SAID IN HIS LONG DIPLOMATIC CAREER HE NEVER BURMAWARD ETFOR
7
TMAT REASON HIS HEART SWELLING WITH ZEAL ENTHUSIASM ETINTEREST
HIS NEW TASK STOP DECLARING BURMA ONE MOST IMPORTANT MEMBERS
10
GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY SPHERE SAWADA
ASSERTED JAPAN BURMA
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1798794

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
OHS
FREOKC
NAT
FREO KC
FREO KC
FADF
RST
WPM
MN
AL DESCRIPTION
823
GMI
MUST LINKED CLOSELY SPIRITUALLY ETOTHERWISE JUSTS JAPAN
MANCHOUKUO ETCHINA ARE INSEPARABLY UNITED TOGETHER STOP STATED
THAT INDEPENDENCE BURMA WILL SOON FORTHCOMING AS PREMIER TOJO
EXPLAINED AT EIGHTYSECOND DIET SESSION AND THAT HE PROCEEDING
BURMAWARD MAKE NECESSARY PRERIMINARY ARRANGEMENTS WITH BURMESE
LEADERS STOP CONCLUDED QUOTE EYEM UNCERTAIN WHETHER EYE CAN PER-
FECTLY WITHSTAND SOUTHERN CLIMATE HOWEVER EYEM DETERMINED IVE
MY BEST EFFORTS FOR SUCCESSFUL CONSUMMATION MY NEW TASK UNQUOTE
PARA 33 SHONAN 20/7 PARTY THIRTY YOUNG NATIVE OFFICIALS EXMALAI
ETSUMATRA WHO BEEN SELECTED BY NIPPON MILITARY ADMINISTRATION
MALAIWISE INSPECT ACTUAL CONDITIONS WARTIME NIPPON SCHEDULED
VISIT NIPPON SHORTLY STOR REVEALED MEMBERS PARTY YESTERDAY GIVEN
MEARTY SENDOFF BY ADMINISTRATION AUTHORITIES PA
PARA 34 MANILA 19/7 COMMENTING RAPID PROGRESS INDEPENDENCE PREP-
ARATIONS PHILIPPINES OBSERVERS CONTRASTED SINOERITY BACKED BY
s
1
ACTUAL RESULTS OF NIPPONS POLICY WITH INSINCERITY ETDILATORY
2
3
TACTICS OF UNISTATES WITH REGARD PHILIPPINES INDEPENDENCE STOP
5
DEOLARED WHILE NIPPON TAUGNT FILIPINOS OUTCARRY STEPS FOR ATTAIN-
7
MENT INDEPENNDENCE IN LESSN TWO YEARS AMERICA PROVIDES LONG PREP-
8
9
ARATION PERIOD FROM 1934 TO 19 DURING WHICH TIME NO RPT NO
10
MEASURES MELPFUL FOR ISLANDS INDEPENDENCE FORMULATED STOP ADDED
2
TO UNIT:
PATND

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
EVEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT.
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
BIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
823
INDEXED DY
ANALYST:
GMT:
SOCALLED INDEPENDENCE PROMISED BY AMERICA ONLY MEANT RIDDING
ITSELF OF ISLANDS NORDER ALLEVIAT ITS FINANCIAL BURDEN STOP STATED
FURTHERMORE UNDER AMERICAN RULE ALL ECONOMIC FINANCIAL STRUCTURES
OF ISLANDS SO FORMED ASTO COMPEL THEIR PERMANENT DEPENDENCE UPON
AMERICA STOP OUTPOINTED IN SHARP CONTRAST NIPPON LAUNCHED MOVE-
MENT EXPANSION PRODUCTIVITY OF ITS LIGHT INDUSTRY PROVIDED PLAN
FOR SELFSUFFICIENCY FUEL STOP DECLARED TIS BUT NATURAL THAT NIP-
POS SINCERITY RECOGNIZED APPRECIATED BY FILIPINOS WHO ALSO CON-
VINOED NIPPONS EFFORTS DEVELOP RESOURCES AND REESTABLISH COMMUN-
ICATION FACILITIES PHILIPPINES ALL FOR BENEFIT FILIPINOS STOP
ALSO OUTPOINTED WITHIN YEAR AND HALF JAPANESE MILITARY ADMINISTRA
TION COMPLETED PROPOSED READJUSTMENT OF ISLANDS IMPORTANT INDUS-
TRIES AND NOW EXERTING EFFORTS REORGANIZE COMMUNICATION FACILI-
TIES STOP SAID SINCE ESTABLISHMENT IN MAY MARITIME AFFAIRS BUREAU
UNDER MILITARY ADMINISTRATION PHILIPPINES TRANSPORTATION OFFICE
AND SHIPBUILDING ASSOCIATION BEEN CREATED STOP ADDED IN LINE
2
3
WITH TNESE ORGANS TAAINING OF NATIVE MARINERS ALSO BEEN STARTED
5
STOP FURTNER DISOLOSED WOODEN VESSELS BEING BUILT AT SCORES DOC-
6
7
KYARDS IN ISLANDS ALL CONTRIBUTING UNONLY TOWARD SMMOTH WORKING
8
9
OF MILITARY ADMINISTRATION BUT ALSO TOWARD ULTMATE ATTAINMENT OF
10
ISLANDS INDEPENDENCE END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NN TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE
BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 170

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.96)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONS
TO THE BECRETARV
CHAIRMAN
T. J. BLOWIE, BECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
PAYNE
MAENHXRONXXXXE.
VEN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
AKEFIELD
July 27, 1943
URR
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
MR.
BERLE
894.76/144
My dear Mr. Berle:
94.76
Attached herewith are additional copies of Domei
Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
Very truly yours,
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
SEF 6-1943
Radio Intelligence Division
FILED
Attachments
Ren file
dential File
PS/LF
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND RAMPS

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
DATE 7/19/43
WASHINGTON CASE NO.12718
DIRECT
R8C
COPY:
HOLULU. T. H.
OBSERVER
KC. SENDING TO:
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY8175
A-2
RST 466
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION AUTOMATIC. 25 WPM-NO QRM-NO QRN
33 CQ DE JHL/JUP3 PRESS DE JHL/JUP3 HR NW BC AT 223 JULY 19TH BT
DOMEI 47
(KAHOKU SHOKURYOO HANBAIKAGAKU KETTEI)
PEKINJUKUHI KAHOKU (CHUUKAMINKOKU KITA) KAKUTINIOKERU SHOKURYOOHIN
SHUUBAI KAGAKUNITUITEWA KAHANKETTEI FUKOKUOMI MIGIKUGAKUNI
0
MOTOZUKI SAIUNSHA (TORU HAKOBU) GASSAKUSHA (AWASU TUKURU)
OCHUUS INNI SHUUBAIGA OKONAWARETEORI TAHOO HANBAIKAGAKUNI TUITEWA
PEKIN TENSIN KANKUTINIOITE ZANTEITEKI KAKAKUNO KETTEIOOITANGA
MIGI HANBAKAGAKUWA SHUUBAIKAGAKUTO KANARAZUSIMO KINKOOWOEZU
TAMENI TOWIHIKINO FUENKATUO KITASITUTUARU JIJOONIARI KANETE
SEISIKI HANBAIKAGAKUNO KETTEIGA MATARETERUGA SEIMUITIKAI NIOITE
KOMUGI KOGOME GYOKUMAI (GUKUSAINOGYOKU KOME) KOORYANAMI KOKUSI
(KOKUMOTUNOKOKU KODOMO) KOORYANMUGIKO KOMUGIMEN GYOKUMAIMEN
KOORYANMENNO JUUHINMOKUNI SANBAIKAGAKUO SEISIKINIKETTEI SOKUJITU
JISSISARETTA
48 (RYOOSHOKU INTOKUSHA DANKOSHOBATU)
PEKINJUNUHI KASOKUSEIMU IYINKAIDEWA KAHOKUNIOKERU BHOKURYOOHIN
JUKYUUNO KANWAO HAKARUTAME SHUUBAIKIKOO KAKAKUNO SEIBIOWOKONAU
IPPOO IPPANSHOOSIANO SOYUU RYOOSHOKUWA SONORYOOGA SHOOHIRYOONO
ROKKAGETUBUNWO KOERUMONONI TUITEWA ROKUGATU NIJUHIO KIGENTOSITE
SINKOKUO OKONAWASIME KITEIKAKARO MOTTE KAIAGEO OKONUMUNE FUKOKUOWOKO
NAI SONOKEKKA KAKUTINIOKERU SINKOKUWA HOBO JUNCHOONI
OKONAWARETAGA NAOITIBUNIWA KOREGA INTOKUNADONO KOOIOS IMESU
MONOGARAUTODE SEIMU IYINKAIWA KASANETE NIJUHIZUKE FUKOKUOHASSIMIGI

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.96)
SHEET #2
NO.47-RSC
COPY:
RECORDING
JHLJUPS
FREQUENCY17
KC. SENDING TO:
中中非李中李中拿
RSSION
RST
SIGNAL DEBCRIPTION
GMT
INTOKUSHA NITAISITEWA KAHAN KOKUMINSEIFUYORI KOOFUOMITA
(KAHOKUKAKURAN KEIZAITOOSEI KINKYUUTIZAI ZANKOOJOOREI)
WOTEKIYOO NIJUROKUHIYORI KOREOJISSIEI KEIZAI KAKURANSHANI
TAISITEWA GENBATUOMOTTE NOZOMUKOTOTO NATTA
49 (YOMIMONO) BIRUMA DOKURITUHIWA DAIIKOAI (RANGUUNHATU TAIBOONO
DOKURIUWA DAITOOANO MISHUNIHONNO TENYOTTE MASANI SANZENTO
 BIEUMANO ZUJOONI KAGAYAKANTO SITERU SIKASI KONOKAGAYAKSII MAN
HIWA KESSITE GUUZENNI TOORAISITA NODEWANAKATTA EIKOKUNO MASHUGA
BIRUMAJINWO APPAKUSI SAKUSHUSUREBA SURUDAKE SOREDAKE TUYOKU
JIYUUOMOTOME TAKUMASIKU HANPATUSENTOSITA KARERADEATTA IMA
DOKURUTUNOHIO MOKUZENISURU BIRUMA HYAKUNENNO HISINI KARERETO
KUNANNOATOWA TAZUNETEMEYOO) BANDO U RA BANDO U RA NOWENI
135
BANDO URA NAKU BANDO U RA NONO

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
PAGE-1
HONOLULU. T.H.
OBSER
615
COPY:
DIRECT
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY817
KC. SENDING TO:CQ
A-2
RST 558
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION BO WPM TAPE NO QRM OR QRN
1328 BC AT 2230 JULY 17TH
DOMEI 48 (KAHOKUSHOO SOOGOENKA) SEKIMONJUNANA KAHOKUSHOO ZEN-
YIKINIWATARI SHOOKYOO RYOOGUN GEKIMETUSENWO TENKAI SITUTUARU
WAGA MARUMARUBUTINO HONNEN ITIGATUKARA ROKUGATU MATUMADENO SOOG-
OOSENKA SANOOGTOSI KOOSEN TEKIHEIROKU MANNINISENHAPYAKU KUUUJUNANA
KOOSENKAISUU NISENGOHYAKUGOJUNANA TEKISONGAI FUYO FURYO HASSENHAPP-
AKU NIJUKYUU IKISITAI ITIMANROPPYAKU NANAJUNANA FUKUMETUSISETU
GOHYAKU NANAJUROKU ROKAKUHIN HAKUGEKIHOO HATJIJAHATI JUUKIKEIKI
SHOOJUU DOODANYAKU SONOTATASUU
49 (OOSHUUKYOOEIKENNO SHOKURYOO MANDAI) BERURIHNJUROKUHI
KAISENYIRAI EIKOKUWA DOKUIHAJIME OOSHUU KYOOIEKEN SHOKOKUNO FUU
SATAISAKUNI ZENRYOKUO KATAMUKETEKITAGA HANSUUJIKKKU GAWANOSENDENNI-
MO KAKAWARAZU KAKARU FUUSAWA SUBETESIPPAINI KISITEIRU GIRISHA BER-
UGII FINRANOONO SANGOKUGA ITIJIKANARINO SHOKURYOCNANNI HOOCHAKUSITA
KOTOW JIJITUDEARUGA KOREWA OOSHUU KYOOEIKEN SHOKOKUNO KYOORYOKUTO
DOITUNO ENJONIYORI SONOKIKIO KOKUFUKU SURUKOTOGA DEKITA SIKASIKORER-
SANGOKUNO SHOKURYOONANWA HANSUUJIKUKOKUNI YORUFUUSANO KEKKADEWANAKU
KAISENYURINO AKUTENKOOGA SONO SHUINTKO NATTEITANOODERU TENKOOWA
SHOKURYOO MONDAINI JUUDAIKANRENWO YUUSURUGA JIJITUKAISEN IRAISANK-
ANENNO FURUNODKIKIOOGA FUJUNWOKIWAMETA KOTOWAOOSHUU KYOOEIKEN SHO-
KOKOUNO SHOKURUYOOMONDAI KAIKETUO MONNAN NARASIMETEIRU TOKOROGL
SAKUNENKARA HONNENNI ITARUFUYUWA SUKOBURU JUNCHOONI MEGUMARE SARANI
SAKUNATU KOOMANKIMARA AKIEKAKETENO KIDERIDE SAIBAIOYOBI SHUUKAKUWA
KAWAMETE RYOOKOODE ATT-TOYUUSAIKIMNDIO * * TENKOO SIKYKKIGA

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.98)
PAGE-2
NO. 44 RSC
DIRECT
COPY:
HONOLULUT.H
OBSERVER
615
JHL/JUPS
FREQUENCY0175
KC. SENDING TO:
CC
SIGNAL DECRIPTIONSOWPM TAPE
SIONA-2
_RST
GMT
1340
SHOOSHOO FUSOKUSITANOTO ROKUGATUNI HAITTEKARANO TEINNOTAME BUBUNTEK-
INI JAKKANNO SAKUGARAWA KEIKINSITE HEINENSAKUYORI RYOOKOODEARUTO HOOZ
ZER-RETEIRU KAKARU TENKOONO KOOTENTO AITOMONATTE OOSHUUKYOOEIKEN
NIWA NOOBYOOKYOOKA KEIKAKUOYOBI KAIRYOO KEIKAKUNIYORI SHOKIURYOOSAN-
NI KOOKAOGETZ KUNIZGAOOKATTA SOTURNITOTTE IMAHITOTIUNO MONDAIWA SHUU-
KAKUKINI HITUYOONA ROODOORYOKUNO KAKUGODEARUGA OSORAKU HONNENDONO
SHUUKAKUKINIWA JUURAIYORIISSOO SEISHOONENNO NOOGYOOROODOO HOOSIGA
KYOOKASARE GUNJUKOOGYOONO SHUUCHUUNI TOMONAU NOOGYOO ROODOOSHANO FUS-
OKUO OGANAU KOTONINAROO NAODOITUNO HONNENDONO NOOSAKUDEWA JUURAININ-
IKURABETE ITIDANTO SHOKUNUTUSEI BHOKUMOUTUNO KYOOKYUU ZOOKANI JUUTEN-
GAOKARE KOKUMOTU HATASAKUMOTU OYOBIYUSI (ABURA SIBOO) SAKUMOTU ZOOS-
ANGA KAKUNITUTOMIRARE DAITAINIOITE HEINENSAKU TEIDOTO YOSOOSARETEIRU
KORERANO KAKUTINIOITEO DOITUDOOYOO SHOKUYOOKOKUMOTU YUSISAKUMOTU
OYOBI HASAKUMOTUNO ZOODANNI TIKARAGA SOSOGARE KONOHOOMENDE SOOTOO
SEISEKIO AGETEIRU SUNAWATI ORIANDABERUGII FURANSUOYOBI SUPEINMO
KOOTINO KAKUCHOONI SEIKOOSOI POOITARIYAWA SHOKURYOOHINNO JIKYUUJISOKU
NIYIUOIYOSONO KOOKAOWOSAMETE IRUGAKAKUTE OOSHUUKYOOEIKEN NIOITEWA
HONNENDOWA HIJOONAZOOSANGA MIKOSARE BEISGAW-GA SIKIRINIOOSHUU KOYOO-
EIKENNAINI OKERU SHOKURYOO JUKYUUNO HIPPAKUO SINDEN SITERUNOWO
135 URAGITTE JIJITUWA IYOIYOKOOTENWO SIMESITEIRU (PARA)

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
LE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ALLE.
807
CALL
FREQ KC
7327
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
577
30
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS
INDICATORS:
OY.
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
0935
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
ENEMY AIRCRAFT OUTOF ONEFIFTY THAT RAIDED MORNING 1E/7 IMI
18/7 JAPANESE POSITION TEN KILOMETERS NORTHEAST BUIN STOP
ATTACKERS CONSISTED ABOUT TWENTY CONSOLIDATED BEE TWENTY-
FOURS FORTY CARRIER BOMBERS NINET** FIGHTERS WHEREOF JAPAN-
ESE NAVAL AIR UNITS DOWN TWENTYSEVEN ENEMY FIGHTERS ONE
CARRIER BOMBER ONE BEE TWENTYFOUR TOTALING TWENTYNINE ENEMY
PLANES STOP JAPANESE SUFFERED DAMAGE TO TWO PLANES STOP
MEANWHILE JAPANESE ARNY ANTIAIRCRAFT BATTERIES DOWNSHOT ONE
BEE TWENTYFOUR BOMBER ONE AVENGER CARRIER BOMBER ONE GRU-
MMAN ALSO DAMAGED TWELVE BEE TWENTYFOUR BOMBERS STOP SAME-
DAY ONE FLYING FORTRESS DOWNSHOT BY ANTIAIRCRAFT BATTERIES
WHEN BEVERAL BEE SEVENTEENS MADE NIGHT RAID ON ISLAND SME
DAY PARA
11 SHONAN 21/7 IMI 11 SHONAN 21/7 KING GEORGE FIFTH LARGEST
FLOATING DOCK WORLDWISE SUNK PARBRITISH AT SELETAR NAVAL
2
BASE ORDER PREVENT FALLING INTO JAPANESE HANDS BEEN SUC-
CESSFULLY REFLOATED BY JAPANESE NAVAL ENGINEERS CUMCOOPERA-
TION NATIVE ETCHINESE WORKERS STOP SALVAGING WORK BEEN
PROGRESSING SINCE MARCH SYEAR PARA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788794

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
OHS
FREQ KC
FREO KC
rTT
FREO KC
.MT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GM I
12 JAPANESE BASE SOUTHWEST PACIFIC 2C/7 IMI 12 JAPANESE
BASE SOUTHWEST PACIFIC 2C/7 JAPANESE NAVAL AIR UNITS BEFORE
DAWN 19/7 1MI 19/7 ATTACKED CANTON ISLAND PHOENIX GROUP
CAUSING HEAVY DAMAGE NILITARY INSTALLATIONS STOP ON 18/7
JAPANESE NAVAL AIRCRAFT AGAIN RAIDEI VANIKORO IMI VANIKORO
ISLAND SANTACRUZ IMI SANTACRUZ GROUP SCORING HEAR MISS ONE
DOWNSHOT
ENEMY CRUISER AT ANCHOR STOP ALSO ONE ENEMY PLANE
PARA
13 TOKYO 21/7 1M1 13 21/7 BITTERLY FLAYING BARBAROUS DAY-
LIGHT BOMBING ROME WHICH RESULTED DESTRUCTION QUOTE PRICE-
LESS
HISTORIC MONUMENTS HUMAN CIVILIZATION UNQUOTE INCLUD-
ING BASILICA SANLORENZO TOMOKAZU HORI IMI TOMOKAZU HORI
SPOKESMAN BOARD INFORMATION DECLARED UNONLY ITALIAN PEOPLE
0948
BUT THREEHUNDRED MILLION CATHOLICS WELLS HUNDREDS MILLIONS
OTHERS THROUGHOUT WORLD BEEN AROUSED QUOTE IN ALL THEIR
1
INDIGNATION ETRIGHTEOUS WRATH AGAINST ANGLOAMERICAN VANDALS
2
3
UNQUOTE STOP HORI RECALLED ROOSEVELT CHURCHILL ON COMMEN-
CEMENT SICILIAN OPERATIONS ATTEMPTED CAJOLE ITIMIDATE
ITALIAN PEOPLE THROUGH SCATTERING HANDBILLS ONCALLING THEM
UPGIVE FIGHT STOP OUTPOINTED THIS FAILED BECAUSE QUOTE IN
10
TO UNIT:
PAT: ND: 0

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
71443
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
3FILE
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT-
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
INDICATORS:
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
ANALYST:
INDEXFD BY
GRIFFIN
GMT
CONTRAST ENEMY CAMP WHOSE MEMBERS TEMPORARILY UNITED PROP-
URSUIT THEIR RESPECTIVE SELFISH INTERESTS ASTERISKS AXIS
R
POWERS FIRMLY UNITED PARSPICITUAL BOND THEIR COMMON PUR-
POSE ATTAINING THEIR GREAT IDEAL UNQUOTE STOP ADDED ROOSE-
VELT CHURCHILL QUOTE HAVING FAILED THEIR NAIVE ATTEMPT
DEMORALIZE ITALIAN PEOPLE ETDISRUPT AXIS RELATIONS ASTER-
ISKS RESORTED TO THEIR LESPERATE BUT USUAL METHOD DASH BOMB-
ING HISTORIC CITY ROME UNQUOTE STOP ADDED REQUOTE AS RESULT
THEIR BARBAROUS DAYLIGHT BOMBING PRICELESS HISTORICAL MONU-
MENTS TO HUMAN CIVILIZATION SUCHS SANLORENZO BASILICA ET-
CAMPO VERANO BOTH SITUATED FARAWAY EXANY MILITARY ESTABLISH-
MENTS BEEN DEMOLISHED TO EXTENT NO RPT NO AMOUNT WEALTH OR
POWER CAN RESTORE THEM TO THEIR FORMER ANCIENT GLORY STOP
HAVING PERPETRATED SUCH ACTS VANDLISM ENEMY NOW LUDLY CLAI-
THEY DONE EVERYTHING POSSIBLE AVOID DAMAGING CULTURAL IN-
1
STITUTIONS STOP SUCH BEEN ONLY IMPORTANT RESULT FIRST
2
3
BOMBING ROME PARANGLOAMERICAN ENEMIES WHO DECLARED IN ROOS-
4
EVENT TO POPE ONLY TEN DAYS AGO SUBQUOTE CHURCHES ETC LIGI-
5
6
7
IOUS INSTITUTIONS TO EXTENT THATSWITIN OUR POWER WILL SPARED
8
9
DEVASTATIONS WAR DURING STRUGGLES AHEAD UNQUOTE ETIN HAND-
10
PAT. NO. 178879
TO UNIT:

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
(OHS
FREO KC
(A
NAI
FREOKC
TT
FREO KC
MT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMT
BILLS WHICH THEY SCATTEREDOVER ITALY IMMEDIATELY BEFORE
BOMBING THAT COMING BOMBING WOULD CONFINED ONLY TO MILITARY
ESTABLISHMENTS STOP ITS QUITE NATURAL UNONLY ITALIAN PEOPLE
BUT THREEHUNDRED MILLION CATHOLICS WELLS HUNDREDS MILLIONS
PEOPLE WORLD OVER WHO EAGER PROTECT PRESERVE CIVILIZATION
CULTURE BEEN AROUSED IN ALL THEIR INDIGNATION ETRIGHTEOUS
WRATH AGAINST ANGLOANE  ICANS VANDALS STOP ITS THUS THAT
ANGLOAMERICAN COUNTRIES UNONLY ENEMY AXIS POWERS WHO FIGHT-
ING PROESTABLISHMENT WORLD BASED UPON RIGHTEOUSNESS ENJUST-
ICE BUT THEY NAKING THEMSELVES DESTROYER WORLD CIVILIZATION
PROWHICH CRIME THEYLL HAVE PAY DEARLY ON LAY RECKONING WHICH
UNFAR DISTANT UNQUOTE END BT
1004
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
1130
JUO/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2∅3& JUL 22ND BT
S
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 14 SHONAN 21/7 IMI 14 SHONAN 21/7 IN PRESENCE
2
SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE PRESIDENT EASTASIA INDIAN INDEPENDENCE
LEAGUE ETHIGH INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY OFFICERS FIRST GRADUA-
TION CEREMONY OFFICERS TRAINING SKHOOL OF INDIAN NATIONAL
ARMY HELD YESTEREVENING STOP UNDERSTOOD PRESENT GROUP INDIANS
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( : PRIORITY
PATo ND 

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAI
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GRIFFIN
GMT:
WHO GRALUATED WILL COMNISSIONED INMELIATELY STOP MEANWHILE
OTHER EAGER INDIAN VOLUNTEERS HAILING EXOMNIPARTS NALAI
OVERSEAS NOW UNDERGOING MILITARY TRAINING BEFORE BEING IN-
LUCTED INTO INDIAN NATIO AL ARNY PARA
15 MANILA 21/7 1MI 15 MANILA  1/7 FILIPINO JOINED PEOPLE
WORLD TODAY IN CONDEMNING BESTIAL A TIAXIS ATTACK ON ROME
SEAT WORLD XYAK CATHOLICISN STOP CATHOLICS ETNONCATHOL-
ICS ALIKE WERE VIGOROUS IN THEIR PROTEST INDISCRIMINATE RAID
CITY WHICHS REGARDED ONE PRICELESS TREASURES WORLD CIVILI-
N
ZATION STOP TRIBUTE HEADLINED INHUMAN RAID EDITORIALLY DE-
CLARED QUOTE SHAMELESS CRIME BEEN PERPETRATED AGAINST CHRIST-
ENDOM STOP THESE GODLESS ETINDISCRIMINATE BOMBINGS PRICE-
LESS TREASURES MANKIND IN CULTURE ETRELIGION WHICH HAVE
NOTHING EVEN REMOTELY DO WITH WAR ARE REFLECTION DESPERATE
( )
ANGLOAMERICAN TACTICS SUCHS CIVILIZED HUMANITY CAN NEITHER
S
KNOW NOR TOLERATE UNQUOTE STOP SAID NOTHING SAFE LONGS
2
3
FIGHTING FORCES NATIONS THAT LAY HÁPOCRITICAL CLAIM CHRIST-
4
5
IANITY ETCHRISTIAN CULTURE ETCIVILIZATION ARE NOT CRUSHED
6
7
STOP ADDED IRONY IT ALL COMES EXLOUDNESS WHEREWITH VERY
8
9
ANTIAXIS NATIONS VOICING QUOTE SAVIOR CHRISTIANITY ETPRESER-
10
VER RELICS OF ANTIQUITY ETCULTURE ETCIVILIZATION WHICH
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17B8764

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FRFO KC
RS
NAT
FREOKC
T1
FREQ KC
MT
FADF
RST
WFA
IMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
ANALYST
GM1
BELONG NOT RPT NOT TO ANY PEOPLE OR NATIONS BUT TO WHOLE
WORLD UNQUOTE STOP MEANWHILE CATHOLIC WOMEN EXPRESSEDD IN-
DIGNATION OVER DESTRUCTION HISTORIC LANDMARKS CATHOLICISM
C
ROMEWISE DECLARING QUOTE TIS AXT VANDALISN WHICH NO RPT NO
D
AMOUNT WORKS CAN EVER RECTIFY UNQUOTE STOP MISSUS FELICIDAD
SILVA RPT FELICIDAD SILVA FOR MANY YEARS SECRETARY CATHOLIC
WOMENS LEAGUE EXPRESSED WONDER HOW NATIONS WHICH CONSIDER
THEMSELVES AS CHRISTIAN COULD PERPETRATE QUOTE SUCH ACTS
PURE SACRILEGE UNQUOTE STOP SAID QUOTE THIS UNPARDONABLE
CRIME GREAT SHAME TO SOCALLED CIVILIZED NATIONS MORE SO
BECAUSE NOTHING BE GAINED MILITARILY BY BOMBING CHURCHES
OTHER PLACES CULTURAL VALUE UNQUOTE PARA
16 MANILA 21/7 IMI 16 MANILA 21/7 ALMOST COMPLETELY RECOV-
ERED EXWOUNDS INFLICTED BY COWARDLY ASSAILANT JOSE P LAUREL
IMI P LAUREL COMMISSIONER INTERIOR ETCONCURRENTLY PRESIDENT
s
1
PREPARATORY COMMISSION FOR PHILIPPINES INDEPENDENCE LEFT
2
9
PHILIPPINE GENERAL HOSPITAL HERE SMORNING STOP WEARING LIGHT-
COLORED KIMONO IML KIMONO PRESENTED AS GIFT BY EIJI AMAU
6
7
RPT EIJI AMAU PRESIDENT BOARD INFORMATION JAPAN LAUREL
8
BEAMINGLY ACKNOWLEDGED (DOTTER)
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
1443
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
FILE
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ'KC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
INDICAICRS:
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
ANALYBT:
INDEXFDDY
GRIFFIN
GMT:
INFORMATION JAPAN LAUREL BEANINGLY ACKNOWLEDGED FOND GOOD-
BYES DOCTORS NURSES OTHER HOSPITAL ATTENDANTS AS HE WAS
AASSISTED FROM ROOM TO WAITING AUTOILOBILE STOP SEEING POL-
ICE CHIEF TORRES AS HE TURNED COHRIDOR LAUREL GOODNATUREDLY
EXCLAIMED QUOTE HELLO COLONEL HOV YOU QUERYMARK UNQUOTE STOP
REPLYING TO TORRES INQUIRY INTO HIS HEALTH LAUREL SAID
QUOTE EYEM LEAVING HOSPITAL AFTER FORTYFIVE DAYS STAY STOP
AM FEELING IN PINK CONDITION AND AM ANXIOUS FINISH IMPORTANT
WORK AHEAD UNQUOTE STOP LAUREL FIRST LEFT SICKBED 1O/7 IMI
10/7 ATTEND HISTORIC NEETING OF PREMIER GENERAL TOJO IMI
TOJO AND MEMBERS INDEPENDENCE CONNISSION MANILA HOTEL
WHEREIN LAUREL REPORTED ON PROGRESS WORK BEING DONE BY CON-
STITUTIONAL DRAFT BODY STOP PREMIER WAS THEN ON SECOND VISIT
MANILA IN COURSE RETURN JOURNEY JAPANWARD FOLLOWING INSPEC-
TION SOUTHERN REGIONS STOP LAUREL RETURNED HOSPITALWARD
5
1
AFTER MEETING BUT EVEN WHILE THERE HE HELD DAILY CONFER-
2
3
ENCES CUMMEMBERS INDEPENDENCE PREPARATORY COMMISSION PURPOSE
4
5
UPSPEEDING FORMULATION FUTURE ORGANIC LAW COUNTRY STOP FOL-
6
7
LOWING BRIEF REST HIS PRIVATE RESIDENCE LAUREL EXPECTED
8
9
COMMENCE WORK IMMEDIATELY IN OFFICES COMMISSION SITUATED
10
2
PAT. NO. 1774
TO UNIT:

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
1443
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
FREQ KC
FREOK
N八
FREO KC
TT
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
NAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
FBY
GRIFFIN
GMI
FORMER METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS BUILDING ALONG PASSIG RPT
PASSIG RIVER STOP WORK PREPARATORY COMMISSION REPORTED HALF-
WAY COMPLETED AND UNDER LAURELS ENERGETIC LEADERSHIP FIN-
ISHING TOUCHES EXPECTED BE MADE ON CONSTITUTIONAL CHARTER
WITHIN BRIEF PERIOD TIME STOP FORNER CHIEF JUSTICE RAMON
AVANCENA RPT RAMON AVANCENA SECOND VICEPRESIDENT PCPI IMI
PCPI WAS LAST OFFICIAL VISITOR ONCALL LAUREL HOSPITALWISE
PRIOR LATTERS DEPARTURE SMORNING END BT
1201
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
S
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALIF.
385
FREQ KC
6330
NA1
DOMEI-PR.
TT
FREOKC
MODERATE 478X
25
,MT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
INDIA!
823
GMI
1330 CQ DE JZQ VVV PRESS DE JZG HR NW BC AT 223 2∅/7 BT
N
COPYRIGHT DOME1 47 TOKYO 20/7 ? 47 TOKYO 20/7 THAT IPPON
P
CONTINUES HOLD STRATEGIC SUEERIORITY OVER UNISTATES FOE DESPITE
UNALTERABLE QUOTE PACIFIC FIRST UNQUOTE POLICY UNISTATES ASSERTED
K
PARLIEUTCOMMANDER ENGO TOMINAGA RPT KENGO TOMINAGA MEMBER NAVY-
PRESS SECTION IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS IN LENGTHY COMMENTARY EXPLAIN-
IN UNISTATES COUNTER OFFENSIVE ANTINIPPON STOP TOMINAGA STRESSED
QUOTE PACIFIC FIRST UNQUOTE PRINCIPLE BEEN UNCHANGING POLICY
UNISTATES SINCE OUTBREAK WAR ETNIPPON BEEN ETCONTINUED BE MAIN
TARGET UNISTATES WAROPERATIONS STOP OUTPOINTED UNISTATES WHICH
SWIFTLY OUSTED EXGREATE* EASTASIA AT OUTSET PRESENT WAR PARTI-
CIPATID IN TEN NAVAL BATTLES VARIOUS INTENSITIES SINCE CORAL SEA
BATTLE ETSPENT ALMOST ONEYEAR SACRIFICING NOT RPT NOT EASILY
REDEEMABLE NAVAL FORCE COMPRISING BATTLESHIPS ANTIAIRCRAFT CARR-
( )
IERS PROCAPTURE SINGLE ISLAND GUADALCANAL STOP DECLARED NIPPON
s
1
MOWEVER CONTINUES SECURELY HOLD STRATEGIC SUPERIORITY OVER ENEMY
2
3
STOP OUTPOINTED AMERICA INCREASINGLY WORRIED PARFACT NIPPON
WILL ATTAIN ABSOLUTELY INVINFIBLE WARSTRUCTURE CUMABUNDANT RESOUR-
CES SHE NOW POSSESSES SHOULD SHE BE GIVEN TIME COMMENCED PRESENT
COUNTEROFFENSIVE WNEN COMPLETION NORTHAFRICAN CAMPAIGN PERMITTED
10
MER SPARE TROOPS MATERIALS SHIPPING SPACE PROPACIFIC OPERATIONS
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PATI NO: 

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
823
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
STOP DECLARED FURTHERMORE DOMESTIC PRODUCTION UNISTATESWISE
REACHED PEAK WHILE RISING CWST LIVING ETMOUNTING FREQUENCY
LABOR TROUBLES CALLED PROSWIFT ACTION ERADICATE INCREASING PESS-
IMISM STOP ADDED AMERICA MOREOVER DETERMINED SEFURE CONTROL
AUSTRALIA STOP TOMINAGA DECDARED ANOTHER DOMINANT FACTOR CALLING
PP
PROIMMEDIATE ACTION AEEROAC**ING PRESIDENTIAL ETECTION NEXTYEAR
WHEREIN ROOSEVELT ASPIRES RUN PROFOURTH TERM STOP OUTPOINTED
ON OTHER HAND BRITAIN TOO FULLY REALIZES IMPORTANCE AID AUSTRA-
LIAWARD WHICH TOGETHER CUMINDIA FORMS BASIS BRITISH EMPIRE STOP
HOWEVER BRITAIN TOO BSIL OCCUPIED FIGHTING GERMANY ITAL* IT
CANNOT BOTHER ABOUT EASTASIA THUS LEAVING FIELD CLEAR PROUNISTATES
STOP TOMINAGA OUTPOINTED SINCE THREE BRITCRUISERS APPEARED IN
FIRST BATTLE OFF SOLOMONS NONE PARTICIPATED SUBSEQUENT PACIFIC
OPERATIONS STOP OUTPOINTED IN PRESENT SOUTHWESTERN PACIFIC
OPERATIONS UNISTATES STRATEGY NOT RPT NOT ACQUIRE ADVANCE BASES
S
PARCAPTURE ONE ISLAND POSTANOTHER BUT GAIN CHANDE SMASH NIPPONESE
1
2
NAVY ETTHEREBY SECURE CINTROL OVER PACIFIC AREA STOP OUTPOINTED
3
4
UNISTATES CONTRARYWISE SUFFERED BITTER LOSSES IN NAVAL BATTLES
5
6
AROUND GUADALGANAL STOP TOMINAGA OUTPOINTED BECAUSE TERRIFIC
7
8
NAVAL LOSSES UNISTATES RECENTLY ALTERED STRATEGY ETNOW USING
9
10
AIRFORCE AS PRINGIPAL WEAPON VIEW FACT SHE ABLE REPLACE AIRCRAFT
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. ND. 170704

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS ACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREO KC
11115
FREOKC
FREOK
NAT
TI
FREO KC
I
FADF
RST
WI…A
117
823
GM7
RAPIDLYER THAN BATTLESHIPS CARRIERS CRUISERS STOP TOMINAGA OUT-
POINTED UNISTATES FOLLOWING RELATIVELY EASY CHEAP METHOD ORDER
PUSH ADVANCE BASES STOP TOMINAGA DECLARED IN PLANNING SUCH STRA-
TEQY UNISTATES FOUND AUSTRALIA AS INDISPENSABLE BASE VIRTUE ITS
GEOGRAPHICAL POSITION STOP UNISTATES FOUND OWN MAINLAND TOO FAR
AWAY WHILE EVEN SUPPLIES EXHAWAII FORCED FORCED RUN RISK RUNNING
THROUGH DANGERZONE STOP OUTPOINTED NIPPONS LINE STRATEGY MEAN-
WHILE FIRMLY ESTABLISHED WEST NEWGEORGIA ISLAND CUMTRANSFER
YESTERSPRING NIPPONESE FORCES EXUADALCANAL STOP NIPPONS LINE
STRATEGY BEEN DAGGER POINTED DIRECTION UNISTATES AUSTRALIA COMMUNI-
CATION LINE STOP ADDED SUBCICUMSTANCES UNISTATES FOUND IT VITALLY
NECESSARY ATTEMPT EEEVER NIPPONS LINE STRATEGY THOUGH KNOWING
WELL ATTEMPT BOUND ACCOMPANIED PARTERRIFIC SACRIFICES STOP TOM-
INGAGA PICTURED UNISTATES SETTING UP TREMENDOUS LINE SEADEFENSE
GUMAMERICAN MAINLAND CONNECTED CUMMAWAIIAN ISLANDS CANTON ENDER-
s
1
BURY. SAMAO GUADALCANAL ETNEWGUINEA STOP OUTPOINTED BEHIN THIS
2
FIRSTLINE DEFENSE WILL SUPPLYLANE THROUGH WHICH ENEMY INTENDS
0
TRANSPMERT WARMATERIALS PROFORTMGOMING ALLOUT COUNTEROFFENSIVE
AGAINST NIPPON DASH AYE COUNTEROFFENSIVE WHICH BEEN HINTED
PARAMERICAN SECRETARY NAVY KNOX STOP TOMINAGA RECALLED UNISTATES
so
MILITARY COMMENTATOR STATED AMERICAN BATTLESHIPS AIRCRAFT CARRIERS
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
12718
CALL
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
INDICATORS:
NAL DESCRIPTION:
ANALYAT:
823
INDEXED BY
GMT:
WILL MAKE APPEARANCE ONLY WHEI ARENA PROTHEIR ACTIVITY OPENED
STOP ADDED THUS IT BECOMES NECESSARY PRONIPPON REGARD PRESENT
UNISTATES OPERATIONS PACIFICWISE AS LENK IN BIGGEST MOST
SYSTEMATIC COUNTEROFFENSIVE EVER ATTEMPTED SINCE START PRESENT
WAR STOP TOMINAGA OUTPOINTED CONCLUSION CURRENT CONFLICT NOW
ENTERING STAGE DECISIVE AERIAL WARFARE STOP OUTPOINTED RATIO
ENEMY PLANES DOWNED CUMNIPPON PLANES WHICH UNHAVE RETURNED OR
WHICH DELIDERATELY CRASHDIVED INTO ENEMY OBJECTIVES VARIED DUR-
ING VARIOUS STAGES FIGHTING BUT NEVER RES NEVER DROPPED BELOW
FOUR TO ONE RPT FOUR TO ONE WHITIH RIO PRESENTLY BEING MAINT-
AINED PARA 48
PARA 48 TOKYO 20/7 ? 48 TOKYO 20/7 UNDE ISTOOD CONCRETE PLANS
TO BE PUT INTO EFFECT IN VARIOUS REGIONS NOR AUGMENTATION NIP-
PONS FIGNTING STRENGTH WERE DECIDED AT FIRST CONFERENCE CHAIRMEN
NINE REGIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE LIAISON COUNCILS HELD SAFTERNOON
PREMIERS OFFICIAL RESIDENCE STOP BESIDES REGIONAL COUNCILORS 
2
3
CONFERENCE WAS ATTENDED BY PREMIER TOJO ETCABINET MINISTERS 
4
5
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS CONCERNED STOP ACCORDING WELLINFORMEDS
6
7
COUNCILORS DISCUSSED PRODUCTIVITY EXPANSION FOODSTUFFS AODUC-
8
TION INGREASE STRENGTHENING TRANSPORTATION CAPAGITY OTHER IMPOR-
10
TANT MATTERS PITALLY CONNENITED WITH NATIONS WAREFFORTS STOP
PAT. NO. 178874
TO UNIT:

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
43
ACTION TAKFN
12718
FREQ KC
OBS
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
FRFO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
823
CN
TWAS ALSO SAID THAT DECISION WAS REACHED AT CONBERENCE CONCERNING
SCOPE AUTHORITY TOBE TRANSFERRED TO REGIONAL COUNCIL BY CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
PARA 49 LISBON 20/7 9 49 LISBON 20/7 EX*ASHINGTON REFLECTING
INCREASING SHRTAGE LABOR UNISTATESWISE PAUL V MCNUTT WAR
MANPOWER COMMISSIONER SAID MONDAY HE WOULD HAVE COMPULSORY LABOR
 BILL READY QUOTE IF AT * WHEN IT SEEMS NECESSARY UNQUOTE
STOP ADDED ADMINISTRATION IS READY PRESS FOR NATIONAL COMPULSORY
LABOR SERCE STOP SAID WAR MANPOWER COMMISSION IS WORKING ON
SUBJECT QUOTE NOW AS IT HAS BEFORE UNQUOTE PA
PARA 50 TOKYO 20/7 ? 50 TOKYO 20/7 HAILING APPOINTMENT RENZO 8
SAWADA AORMER AMBASSADOR FRANCE AS AMBASSADOR PLENIPOTENTIARY
TO BE DISPATCHED BURMAWARD MAINICHI DECLARED GREAT STIMULATING
FACTOR ADDED TO BURMAS PREPARATION FOR INDEPENDENCE WHICH WILL
( )
s
GRANTED NEAR FUTURE STOP JOURNAL OUTPOINTED RENZO SAWADA EXPER-
1
2
IENCED VETERAN WITH BRILLIANT CAREER IN FORNAFFAIRS AND NECOG-
9
NIZED AMONG DIPLOMATIC CIRCLES AS MOST CAPABLE MAN FOR POSITION
5
6
STOP STATED APPOINTMENT SUCH MAN CLEARLY REVEALS COOPERATIVE
7
WILLINGNESS OF NIPPON ASSIST BURMA REALIZE ITS INDEPENDENCE WELLS
10
AGENOWLEDGE IMPORTANT PART PLAYED BY BURMA IN COPROSPERITY SPHERE
STOP FURTHER POINTED TO FACT SAWADA ALSO WELLVERSED IN EASTASIATIC
2
TO UNIT:
PAT: NO 

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
1443
ACTION TAKEN
ILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS.
823
INDEXFD PY
ANALYST
GMT:
AFFAIRS STOP SAID HE SERVED MANY YEARS DIPLOMATIC SERVICE CHINA-
WISE SWELL AS COUNSELOR NIPPON EMBASSY MANCHOUKUO IN 1936 ?
1936 STOP ADDED ALSO ACTED AS COMMITTEE MEMBER ABOLITION
EXTRATERRITORIAL RIGHTS MANCHOUKUOWISE ETRENDERED OUTSTANDING
SERVICE TOWARD RESTORATION MANCHOUKUO RIGHTS END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NW TU DE JZG VA
8
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
CALIE
807
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ'KC
6330
FREO KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
446
20
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS.
EMN.
BAD QRM AND QRN. FREQUENCY
INDICATORS:
KEPT SHIFTING.
BY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYAT:
GMT:
1338
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
OTHER LOCAL FOREIGN NOTABLES STOP **RIAL PLACETAKING TO-
MORROW PARA
B N 21
61 LISBOX/7/7 IMI LISBON 21/7 ******PON BONBERS ESCORTED
BY FIGHTER PLANES YESTERLAY FAIDED **TIAXIS BAS* ON BENA
BENA NEWGUINEA INFLICTING DAMAGES TO BUILDING AREA TW**
RE****TED BY ANTIAXIS HEADQUARTERS SUDWEST PACIFIC PARA
2
62 MANILA 1/7 IMI 62 NANILA 21/7 ALMOST COMPLETELY RECO-
VERED EX******** INFLICTED BY COWARDLY ASSAILANT JOSE P
P
LAUREL CURRENTLY ARESILENT PREPARATORY CONMISSION FOR
PHILIPPINES INDEPENDENCE LEFT PHILIPPINE GENERAL HOSPITAL
HERE SMORNING STOP WEARING LIGHTCOLORED KIMONO PRESENTED AS
GIFT BY EIJI AMAU RPT EIJI AMAU PRESIDENT BOARD INFORMATION
NIPPON LAUREL BEAMINGLY ACKNOWLEDGED FOND GOODBYES DOCTORS
( )
MURSES OTHER HOSPITAL ATTENDANTS AS HE WAS ASSISTED FROM
s
1
ROOM TO WAITING AUTOMOBILE STOP SEEING POLICE CHIEF TORRES
2
3
AS HE TURNED CORRIDOR LAUREL GOODNATUREDLY EXCLAIMED QUOTE
4
5
HELLO COLONEL HOW YOU QUERYMARK UNQUOTE STOP REPLYING TO
6
7
TORRES INQUIRY INTO HIS HEALTH LAUREL SAID QUOTE EYEM LEAVING
8
0
9
HSSPITAL AFTER FORTYFIVE DAYS STAY STOP AM FEELING IN PINK
10
CONDITION AND AM ANXIOUS FINISH IMPORTANT WORK AHEAD UNQUOTE
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 178879

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORK
ORS
FREOKC
FREOKC
TT
FRFO KC
FADT
RST
WFA
GNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GMI
STOP (UNREADABLE)
MEETING OF PREMIER GENERAL TOJO AND
***水水水水水水水*水水*水*本
CONSTITUTIONAL DRAFT BODY STOP PRENIER WAS THEN ON SECOND
VISIT NANILA IN COURSE RETURN JOURNEY NIPPONWARI FOLLOWING
INSPECTION SOUTHERN REGIONS STOP LAUREL RETURNED HOSPITAL-
WARD AFTER MEETING BUT EVEN WHILE THERE HE HELD DAILY CON-
FERENCES CUMMEMBERS INDEPENDENCE PREPARATORY CONMISSION
1352
PURPOSE UPSPEEDING FORMULATION FUTURE ORGANIC LAW COUNTRY
STOP FOLLOWING BRIEF REST HIS PRIVATE RESIDENCE LAUREL EX-
PECTED COMMENCE WORK INMEDIATELY IN OFFICES COMNISSION
SITUATED FORMER METROPOLITAN WATERWORKS BUILDING ALONG PASSIG
RPT PASSIG RIVER STOP WORK PREPARATORY COMMISSION REPORTED
HALFWAY COMPLETED AND UNDER LAURELS ENERGETIC LEADERSHIP
IN
FINISHEDG TOUCHES EXPECTED BE MADE ON CONSTITUTIONAL CHART-
( )
s
ER WITHIN BRIEF PERIOD TIME STOP FORMER CHIEF JUSTICE RAMON
1
2
AVANCENA RPT RAMON AVANCENA SECOND VICEPRESIDENT POPI WAS
3
4
LAST OFFICIAL VISITOR ONCALL LAUREL HOSPITALWISE PRIOR
5
6
LATTERS DEPARTURE SMORNING PARA
7
8
63 ROME 21/7 LML 63 ROME 21/7 WELL INFORMED VATICAN CIRCLES
9
10
DECLARED  IN EVENT FURTHER ENEMY RAIDS ON ROME POPE IUS
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 1

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
443
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
LE
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICALORS:
ANALYST
INDEXED BY
GRIFFIN
GMT
TWELFTH MIGHT CONSIDER TRANSFE RING HIS SEAT FROM VATICAN
CITY TO ONE OF PAPAL PALACES IN CITY ROME ITSELF SINCE HE
UNONLY HEAD CATHOLIC CHURCH BUT ALSO BEISHOP ROME STOP NO
DECISION YET BEEN TAKEN THESE CIRCLES DISCLOSED ADDING HOW-
EVER POPE DETERMINED SHARE HIS FATE WITH THAT OF POPULATION
CITY ROME WHOSE BISHOP HE IS PARA
64 SHONAN 21/7 1MI 64 SHONAN 21/7 QUOTE OUR COUNTRYMAN AT8
HOME WHOVE BEEN BRAVELY ONCARRYING CAMPAIGN SO LONG DEMAND-
ING SECOND FRONT STOP TIS OUR TASK SET UP THIS SECOND FRONT
DASH REAL SECOND FRONT UNDASH SOONS POSSIBLE THEREBY ENSURE
SPEEDY EMANCIPATION OF OUR MOTHERLAND UNQUOTE DECLARED SUB-
HAS CHANDRA BOSE PRESIDENT EASTASIA INDIAN INDEPENDENCE
LEAGUE ADDRESSING FIRST GROUP GRADUATES OF OFFICERS TRAINING
SCHOOL IN GRADUATION CEREMONY YESTERDAY STOP AFTER CONGRAT-
ULATING GRADUATES BOSE SAID QUOTE NAOU* FUTURE DASH WELLS
1
FUTURE OF INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY UNDASH WILL DEPEND ON MANNÉR
2
3
WHEREIN YOU ACQUIT YOURSELVES ON FIELD BATTLE UNQUOTE STOP
4
5
OUTPOINTED THREE IDEALS WHICH THEY MUST ENGRAU*E IN HEARTS
6
7
PRACTICE IN ACTUAL LIFE FAITH DUTY SACRIFICE STOP ADDED
8
9
QUOTE IF YOU WANT YOUR ARMY TOBE INVINCIBLE YOU MUST ALWAYS
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ()' PRIORITY
1788704
TO UNIT:

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
71443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
(ALI
OBS
FREQKC
2A1
FREOKI
FRFO KC
FADE
RST
WP…A
IMN
GNAL
GRIFFIN
GN
UPLIFT TO THESE THREE IDEALS UNQUOTE STOP RENINDING NEW
OFFICERS THEIR RESPO SIBILITY BOSE DECLARED QUOTE YOUVE MUCH
BY YOUR
GREATER RESPONSIBILITY ECAUSE YOU HAVE TO PROVE
ACTION ACHIEVEMENT THAT IMEIAN TRAINING SUPERIOR TO BRITISH
TRAINING THAT INDIAN TRAINING OT INFERIOR TO ANY OTHER IN
ANY OTHER PARTS WORLD STOP COMING AR INDA INLEPENDENCE
C
WILL GIVE YOU GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY FOH FREATING FOR INDIAN
TRADITION SIMILAR TO THAT OF AUSTERLITZ SEDAN UKDE PORT
ARTHUR SINGAPORE AND BURMA UNQUOTE STOP IN CONCLUSION BOSE
ONCE AGAIN CONGRATULATED NEW GRADUATES WISHING THEM EVERY
0
SUCCESS IN NEW TASK STOP UNDERSTOOD PRESENT GRAUP INDIANS
WHO GHADUATED WILL COMMISSIONED INMEDIATELY STOP MEANWHILE
OTHER EAGER INDIAN VOLUNTEERS HAILING EXOMNIPARTS NALAI
OVERSEAS NOW UNDERGOING MILITARY TRAINING BEFORE BEING IN-
DUCTED INTOINDIAN NATIONAL ARMY PARA
s
65 BANGKOK 21/7 IML 65 BANGKOK 21/7 DISCLOSED PREPARATORY
1
2
COMMITTEE FOR TAKING OVER TERRITORIES BE INCORPORATED STOP
3
4
THAILAND SCHEDULED MEET ONCE TWICE MORE SMONTH BEFORE OPEN-
8
6
7
1416
ING NEGOTIATIONS WITH NIPPON EMBASSY HERE STOP PREPARATORY
8
9
COMMITTEE COMPOSED REPRESENTATIVES VARIOUS GOVERNMENTAL
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO: 1

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATCRS
LY:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT
DEPARTMENTS THAILAND MET ALREADY THREE TIMES SINCE ITS INI-
TIAL CONFERENCE ON 17/7 IMI 17/7 ETAGREED UPON GENERAL
PRINCIPLE DEALING WITH MATTER END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JZG VA
1419
(END INTERCEPT)
()
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
1
PAT. NO. 1798794

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
LE
FREQ KC
LIF.
807
CALL
FREOKC
5160
FREOK
FRFO KC
556
20
FADE
RST
DOMEI PRESS
GRIFFIN
GMI
1330
DE JHL/JUP3 HR NW BC AT 223& JULY 21ST BT
OTUGYOOSIKI
DOMEI 37 (INDO KOKUMINGUN KANBUKOOJPSEO SP7YEUPPSOKD)
SHOONAN NIJUUITIHI JIYUUINDO KAKUTOKUNO LAIISSENNITATU
INDOKOKUMIN GUNKANBU YOOSEIJI KIKANTARU KA BUKOOHOSEI GAK-
KOO DAIIKAI SOTUGYOOSIKIWA NIJUHIDOOKOO KOODOODE KYOKOO-
SARETAGA SEKIJOO INDODOKURITU RENNEISOOSAI SUBASU CHANDO-
RA BOOSU IMI SUBASU CHANDORA BOOSUWA (COKURITUWA TATAKAITO-
RU MONODEARU WARERAWATITO NETUJOOWOMCTTE EIKOKUOUTI KANZEN
DOKURITUO TATAKAITORANEBA NAHANU ) TOWAKAKI SHOCKOOTATIO
GEKIREISITA 38 (BEIGUNNOKUSEN) RISUBONNIJUHI SOROMONGUNTOO
NYUUJOOJIATOONI JOORIKUO KITOSITA BEIGUNWA MUNDAHOOMEN
NIHON SHUBITA INO YUUSENKANTOONO MAENIARUIWA SENDETUSARE
ARUIWA ZENSINWO SOSISARE HIJOONAKUSENNI OTIITTERUGA RONDON
RAIDENNIYOREBA IVUNINGU SUTANDAADO IMI IVUNINGU SUTANDAA-
DOSI ZENSEN TOKUHAINWA KARETUO KIWAMERU DOOHOOMENNO SENTOO-
S
NO YOOSOOWO TUGINOYOONI TUTAETERU BEIGUNWA NYUUJOOJIATOONO
2
SUUTITENNI JOORIKUSITEKARA SUDENI NISHUUKANWO KEIKASITA
BEIGUNWA HEIRYOKU KAKINARABINI SOOBIGA YUUSHUUDE ARUNIMO
KAKAWARAZU IMADA MUNDAKITI MARUMARUMAIRU INAINI SINSHUTU-
DEKIZU KAKO SANJUROKUJIKANNAI NIWA SUKOSIMO SINSHUTUSITENAI
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOGE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 170

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT.
FREO KC
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
ARISAMADA NIHONNO HOOHEIJINTIYA HOKYUUTINI KANPOOSHAGEKI
BAKUGEKIO KUWAETEMO NIHONGUNWA IZENBEIGUNNO ZENSINWO SOSIS-
ITERU NIHONGUNWA MITURINNIOKERU NENTOONI JISINWOMOTTE ORIS-
OREKOSO NIHONGUNNO KIRIFUDADA MITURINWA NIHONGUNNO TATEDE-
ARI YORUIDA NIHONHEIWA YOOJUNO (KIHENNI NAE YOONO YOO JUMOKU)
SIGEMINONAKADE SEIKATUSI TATAKAU NIHONGUNNO KIKANJUUZAYA
SOKUSHAHOO JINTIKARANO KARYOKUWA MOORETUDE ITIJINTIO DASS-
HUSURUNIMO BEIGUNWA DAISONGAIO KAKUGOSINAKEREBA NARANU
KONOHOOMENNO SENTOOWA MOJIDOORINO (KESSEN TINOTATAKAI) DEB-
EIGUNNO SEISINRYOKUTO SIKIOKYOKUDONI SHOOMOOSASERU BEIGU-
NWA SHOKURYOOMO NIHONGUNNI HIKAKUSITE TARYOOWO YOOSIKATU
SEIKATUYOOHINMO ANYIDENAIDÁKENI SUUSHUUKANWO ITTEIRYOONO
SHOKURYOONI YOTTE SEIKATUSI NIHONGUNYORIMO ISSOO OSOROSII
MITURINNAINO SITTITAIO GIIJIISYRYJITIWA BEUGYBBI SEUSUBRT-
OKUYA SIKI**ITIJIRUSIKU SOSOOSASERU BEIGUNWA RIKUKAIKUU
1
SANHOOMENKARA MUNDANO NIHONGUNWO HOOISITEORI CHUUKANNO
2
3
SORAWA MOJIDOORI SENTOOKIDE UZUME TUKUSARETERU IRIE (HAIRI
5
EDO) DEWA BEIGUNNOKOGATA HATUDOOKISENNO OORAIGA SA ANDA
6
7
BEIGUNWA ENPOOKARA JUUHOOWOMOTTE NIHONGUNJINTIO HOOGEKI-
8
9
SURU NODAGA NIHONGUNWO JINTIKARA TATAKIDASU KOTOWADEKINAI
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQKC
FREOK
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WP…
L DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GM 1
EENZENNIHONNO B (DOTTER) IMI KOTOWADEKINAI SEN ZENNIHONNO
IMI IMI KOTOWADEKINAISE HE S (UNREADABLE) (DOTTER)
KOTOWADEKINAI X*ZENNIHONNO BOO KAIGUNSHOOKANWA (NIHONGUNWA
ITIDO SENRYOOSITA TOTIWA SAIGONO IPPEINIITARUMADE ITIJIT-
ARITOMO TEKINIYUDANERU KOTOWANAI TEKINIWAKOOKANA DAISHOOWO
HARAWASERU KONJINO SENSOONIWA HIHONWA ISSENMANNO HEISIO
GI*EINISURU KAKUGOGA DEKITERU BEIGUNNO YOOIIKA* ) TONOBET-
1352
AGA MUNDA SHUBITAIWA NATTAKU MIGIGENMEINO TANTEKINA HYOO-
GENDA KORENIKOTAERUNI BEIKOKUWA NUSUUNO (DOTTER)
KORENIKOTAERUNI BEIKOKUWA NUSUUNO HIKOOKI KANTEI KIKAISO-
OBIO DOOHOOMENNO ZENSHOOTITENNI SHUUKETUSI GENZAIMADENI
SOOTOONI SEIKOOWO OSAMETERUGA SINRITEKINIWA NI*ONGUNWO AT-
TOOSURUKOTOWA DEKIZU SUUSENNO BEIGUNWA MITURINNO AIDAOHOOKOO-
SI SEIKATUSI SENTOOSI SINDEYUKUNODA MITURINDEWA JIDOOSHAWA
SIYOODEKIZU OOGATANO KAHOOWA SIRYUUDANWO MOTTAHEIHODONO
IRYOKUO HA*KISITENAI MITURINSEIKATUNI TAERARERUYOONA KEN-
2
3
KOOTAIOMOTI DOOVUTU*OYOONA SEIKATUNI TAERARERU HEISIWA
KIWAMETESUKUNAI MUNDANITATAKAU BEIGU**A NIHONGUNTO BOOSEN-
7
SURU KOTOGA IKAN KURUSIIMONODE ARUKAOIZENYORI HAKKIRITO
SIRU*IITATTA AR
10
1358
NM TU DE JHL/JUP3 VA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
12718
7-MA-P-1288-S71743 7/18/43
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
COPY:
LOLU, T.W.
FREQUENCY132S
A
(PAGE ONE OF FOUR PAGES)
133 PRE 33 PRESS BE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 223 JUL 19TH I
DONEI NIKKAKOOKAN MINKANKEIZAI SISETUDAN DANCHOO OGURAMASATUNESI
IKKOOKYUUEIWA JUUMATINI YUUKOKU NANEDE HIKOOJOOGHAKU KIKYOOSITA
NAO OGURADANCHOOWA KOOKANNOKEKKATO KONGONO TEIKEIENO KOKOROGAMA-
EO TUGINOGOTOKU KATATTA TUUKABEISAN SHOKURYOONISIRO HYAKUBUNWA
IKKENNISIKAZU GENJITUTOSITENO SHANMAIWA HIJOONI SETUJITUNA MON-
DAINI CHOKUMENSITEIRU NIKKATTOMMONI SOREZORENO TOKUSHUSEIGA
ARUKARA OISORETO TAISAKUNADO TATERARENAIGA TAISEINO SIKARASI-
MURU HIOMATI SOREMADEWA TEKITOONA IKUSEIKYOOKAO HODOKOSIAITATU
MUINISITEKASUNO MOOSOKUDE NOZOMUNOGA SAIRYOONO SAKUDATO TUU-
KANSITA TATOEBA TUUKA BUKKA MONDAINISITEMO NIKKATTOMONI NANRA-
KANO SHOTIOTORANEBA NARANAINOGA GENJOODEARUGA KORETOTOE KORETOTEN
MO DOTIRO KORETOTEMO (DOTS) (PAUSE) KORETOTEMO SEKININDEMO NAIN-
ODA CNUUKA KEIZAIKAINO YUURYOKUSHAWA HOTONDOSUBETEGA KINYUU
GYOOSMADAKARA KOOSITA HITOTATINO AIDAKARA NANRAKANO TEOUTEBA
KOOTEN SITEYUKUNODEWA NAIKATOYUUYOONA KANGAEKATAWA MOTOTOMON-
ISOONA KANGAEKATADATO IWANEBANARANAI NIKKABOOEKIMO BOOEKIRENMEI
SOOKA!O SNAENAINIOITE KYOORYOKUNA JINTAIO MORIAGETE YUKUKOTONI
ATTAG-SONO OZURENISITEMO TANNI CHONITUITATOYUU KANJIYORI SONO-
IPPOTEMAE IWABA MAKUGA OROSARETAMAMATO YUUNOGA JISSOO NANODA-
KARA SIZENNO NAMIYUKIOMATTE SARANI NIKAISANKAITO KOOKANTEIKEI-
MO MAKUO MIKIAGERUMIE ZENTIZENNOOWO AGETE KYOORYOKU KEIKAKUK-
EIZAINO SENNOSUSUNENEBA NARANAITOWOMOU PARA
RANGUUNDOONEI KANETE SHOONANWO MOOMONSI TOOJOGSHUSHOO NARABINI

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.96)
071743
NO37-MA-P-12/ DATE 1/1/43 WASHINGTON CASE NO.
MONOLULU, T.M.
OBSERVER
_COPY:
JUP/JUE
FREQUENCY13KC. SENDING TO:
BION A-1 RST 479 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE AT 2S PM  NO QRN QRM
NO DÁDING
BMT
(PAGE TWO OF FOUR PAGES)
SUBASU CHANDORA BOOSUSITO KAKUINAKI IKENNO KOOKANWOTOGE KONBHODO
KIMENSITA BAA-MOCHOOKANWA JUUNATIHI NIPPON KISHADANTO KAINEN
BIRUMAKENKOKU JUNBINO SINCHOKU JOOKYOOWOYOBI INDONO DOKURITU
MONDAINITUITE TAIYOO TUGINOGOTOKU KATATTA NIDOENO KAIKENDE
KANARI TOOJOOSMUSHOOTO YUKKURI KONDANSURU KIKAIOETA BIRUMAKEN-
KOKU JUNBINO ZENDANKAINI TUITE MADA KATARUBEKI TOKIDEWANAIGA
KONKAINO KAIDANNIYORI IROIRONA MONDAINITUITE ISSINOSOTUUGA
TOGERARETA TENNIOITE DOKURITU JUNBIKOOSAKUWA ITIDANTO ENKATUKASI
SANGATU TOOKYOODE TOOJOOSMUSHOOTO KAIKENSITEIRAI KONNITIDEWA
KONOJUNBIWA SOTONDO KANSEINOIKINI TIKAZUITA MONOTIERU TUGINI
CHANDORA BOOSUSITONO KAIKENWA HAJIMETEDEWA ATTAGA SONO HATUIN-
SHOOWA SUBARASIKU KOOKANWOMOTARE KARENO MOTTEIRU BITEN KIGAITO
ITTAMONOWA DANZEN INDONO SIDOOSMACHUU TOOKAKUO NUKINDE GENZAINO-
YOONI SENKYOKU JUUDAINO TOKINIWA INDONAIGAINO INDOJINKARA ZETUD-
AINO SINRAIO MAKUSURUNI TIBAINAITO OMOTTA KONGONO DOKURITU UNDOO
NO MOOSINNITUITEMO TAGAINI KYOOKINWOMIRAKI YAKU MANJIKANNI
WATATTE KATARIATTAGA ZENMENTEKITINI IKENNO ITTIOMITA INDONO BO-
KURITU UNDOONITAISITE BIRUMAWA CHOKUSETU KANSETUNI ARAYURU ENJ-
OWO OSIMANAIBEAROO SHOONAN MARAINADO WATAKUSIA KONOMEDEMITA
ANA
SINKOOBURIWA SUBARASIYI MONGBE JUUMINWA YASURK/YKZVK SEIKATUO
ITONANBEIRUNOGA MIRARETA SIKANO SORETOYUUNG BIRUMAGA MINAMINO
DAIVISISENTOSITE KYOGEIKENNO NISINOMONWO MAMORI KOOGUNNI KYOO-
RYONUSITE TATAKATTE IRUKARABE KENKOKU BIRUMANO SEKININWA IYOI-
YO OOKIYITOKANJITAPARA

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.97)
71743
DIRECT
LNLU,T.M.
COPY:
JMP/JNQ
FREQUENCY133
A-1 RST 479 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENT AT 25 WPM - NO QRN QRN
SSION
MOFADING
GMT
(PAGE THREE OF FOUR PAGES)
OOSAKA SHOOSENDEWA BOOKEIKAISHANO BAPPEIO KOORYOCHUUDE ATTAGA
MAZU KOKUSAIKISEN OYOBI KITANIPPONKISEN RYOOSHAO KYUUSHUU GAPPEI
SURUKOTONI KETTEI TIKAKU NINKASINSEI TETUZUKIO TORUKOTOTO MATTA-
GA OOSAKASHOOSEN KONKAINOSOTIWA TASHANO SEIBIKIUNWOMO ITIJIRUS-
IKU SOKUSIN SURUMONOTOSITE CHUUMOKUSARERU PARA
TOOJOOSHUSHOOWA JUUKUMINO RINJITINOOKAN KAIGISEKIJOO KUNJIOWOK-
ONAI MASUMASU KINPAKUKASERU SENKYOKUNO BENDANKAINITUKI SETUM-
EISURUTO TOMONI DAITOOA JUUOKUNO SOORYOKUO KESSMUUSI SEISENKAN-
SUI DAITOOA KYOOEIKEN KENSETUNI MAISINSUBEKI TEIKOKUNO KAKKOTARU
135S KAKUSINWO SENMEISITAGA SHUSHOOWA TOKUNI SENRYOKUZOOKYOO KIGYOO-
SEIBI SMOURYOO KOKUNAI JIKYUUTAISEI KAKURITUNADO GENEKAKIKKINNO
JUUYOOKADAINI KANSURU KIMONMOOSINWO AKIRAKANISI KOREGA KANSUIO
KISURUTAME KANAN MOSSOKUSERU TINOOGYOOHEI KYOOGIKAINO ENKATUNARU
KATUYOOWO KYOOCHOO CNUUOOTINOO ITTAITONATTE SENRYOKU ZOOSANNI
MAISINSURUTAME CHUUOONO KENGENNISITE TIHOONI IJOOSURUO TEKITOOTO
SURUMONOWA SUSUNDEKOREO IJOOSUBEKI SEIFUNO KONPONMOOSINWO AKIRA-
KANISI BYOOSEINO GENBASMUGIO KYOOCNOO SERUKOTOWA TIHOOBYOOSEI
KONGONO DOOKOOWO JISASURU MONOTOSITE KIWAMETE FHUUMOKUSARETA
SAIBONI SMUSNOOWA KESSENKA GYOOSEIKANNO SITUNU YOORYOONITUKI
MITOTU BENJITU SOKUGONO BYOOSEI FUTATU KANRISOOINO HAKKI MITTU
KANRRI SEKINIKANNO KAKURITU YOTTU KOOKISHUKUSEINO YONTENWO
KYOOSNOG KONO KANRIKUNNI MOTOZUKI FUBATUNO MISSHOO SINNENNOMOTO
MASUMASU KOKUMINSIKIO KOOYOOSI KKIBYOOSEIBI SHOKURYOO ZOOSANNO
TOONENSERU TEKIZENSAGYOOWO ENKATUKATU JINSOKU KYOORVOKUNG

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.92)
071743
DIRECT
COPY:
LULU, T.N.
KC. SENDING TO:
JUP/N
479
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE SENT AT 25 WPM - NO QRM QRM-
ION
NO FADING
(PAGE FOUR OF FOUR RAGES)
JISSISUBEKKI MUNEO YOOSEISI KAKU TIHOOCHOOKANNO ISSOONO FUNKIO
UNAGASITA PARA AR
AMR COBE
14
PIAAT FDYYN W.......(ETC)

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
3
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
LIFORNIA
74
WORKS
FREQKC
13065
1
FREQ KC
TI
2
556
2
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
(UNRECORDABLE
PRIOR TO 555 GMT)
M. SHOREY
GMI
CQ DE JUP/JUQ (DOTS)
VE PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 15: JUL 21ST BT
DOPYRIGHT·DOMEI 07 TOKYO 23/7 L1 TOKYO 20/7
E
ENVUE RESSERRE DAVANTAGE RELATIDNS AMICALES ETCCOP*RATION
G
NIPPOBIRMANIE NOUVELLE ORGANISATION QUOTE ASSOCIATION
BIRMANE UNQUOTE FUT FONDEE RECEMMENT ICI PLPLACANT
B
ASSOCIATION NIPPONIRMANE UI SETAIT DISSOLUE S*ONTANEMENT
STOP REUNION PROMOTEURS NOUVELLE ORGANISATIO NENUE 2/7
FUT ELU COMPRENANT PRESIDENT
IML 2/7 OU PERSONNEL DIRECTIO
ASSOCIATION MARQUIS SA*URO INOUYE ET DIRECTEUR GL ERAL
ITARO MI*UNC CHEF BUREAU XAFFAIRLS SUD INISTERE AFFAIRES
PLUSGRANDEASIE STOP AS OCIATIO SOCCUPERA DI ECTION ETUDIANTS
BIRMANS JAPONWISE AINSIQUE INVESTIGATICN ET INTRODUCTION
BIRMANIE PARA
CHENG YU MINISTERE
S
08 SHINKING 20/7 1ML SHINKING 20/7
1
2
MANDCHOUDCHOUO THAILANDEWARD QUI RENTRA HIER ICI SEITRETINT
3
4
CEMATIN CUMPREMIER CHANG CHINGHUI ET ROKUZO TAKEBE DIRECTEUR
5
6
GENERAL BUREAU AFFAIRES GENERALES CONSEIL ETAT EN LEUA
7
8
RENDANT COMPTE AFFAIRES SUBJURIDICTION STOP PLUSTARD YU EUT
D
9
10
CONVERSATION CUMMINISTRE ECONOMIE YUAN CHENTO ETSUBZIRECTEUR
2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.96)
wo
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
12918
CALL
WORKS:
JALIFORNIA OBS
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
GENERAL MINISTERE AFFETRANGEPES *A*EI I*RA PARA
PREMILRE
CONFERECE LIAISON
39 TOKYO 20/7 1ML TOKYO 2./7
PRESIDENTS NEUF CONSEILS ADMINISTRATIFS REGICVAUX SETINT
CTAPRESIDI IEDIATEENT APRES CONFERECE COUVERNEURS
PROVINCIAUX HIER ADRESIDENCE OFFICIELLE PREMIER *NPRESENCE
PREETIER HIDEKI TOJD OMNIMINISTRES CABINET CO ESEILLERS
REGIONA***ONCTIONNAIRES
ITERESSEDS GOUVERNEMENT STOP CROIT-
SAVOIR COURS CONFERENCE ONETAB*** POLITI UE CONCRETE ADETRE
UR
MISE ENVIGUERY DANS REGION RESPECTIVE *ONCERNANT AUGMENTAT
AUGMENTAION POTENTIEL GUERRE NATION STOP NAPRES CERCLES
PRE
BIENINFORMEDS PREETIERE CONFERENCE ***SIDENTS CONSEILS
ADMINISTRATIFS REGIONA*X DONNA OCCASION ECHANGER VUES FRANCHES
SUR *PANSION CAPACITE PRODUCTIVE VIRG AUGMENTATION PRODUC-
TION VIVRES VIRG RENFORCEMENT CAPACITE TRANSPORT ET
HAUSSEMENT MORAL NATICN AUXQUELS CONFERCNCE GOUVERNEURS
CONSACRA DISCUTIONS STOP SUITE CONFERENCE ONTROUVA MDYEN
2
3
ELIMINER SECTIONNALISME GOUVERNEMENTS PROVINCIAUX LEQUEL
4
ENTRAVE EXPANSION CAPACITE PRODUCTIVE STOP DIT COURS
7
CONFERENCE ONWRIT DECISION SUR LIMITE AUTORITE QUE GOUVERNE-
8
9
MENT CENTRAL TRANSFERERA GOUVERNEMENTS PROVINCIAUX PARA
ho
X型XXI
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178764

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.96)
HREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
LIFORNIA
FRFO KC
ORS
NAI
FREQ KC
FREO KC
C.AT
FADF
RST
WPM
MN
NAL DESCRIPTION
M.SHOREY
GM1
1 TOKYO 2H/7 LML TOKYO 2 /7 SCCIETE IPPONDIENNE CRGANISERA
DINER ADIEU 24/7 I 24/7 SOIH AIS0 ***ITOAKAIKAN POUR
HUIT INDIENS COMPRENANT CD SADHWAN HEF FILIALE YOKOHAMA
LIGUE INDEPENDANCE I**E CUI PARTIRONT SOUSPEU SHONANWARD
AFIN ASSISTER SOUBHAS CHANDRA BCSE PRESIDENT LEGUE IDEPLN
DANCE INDE PARA
11 HANDI 20/7 1ML HANOI 2/7 APPREND JOURDHUI ICI ELEVANT
ETAT RESIDENTS THAI INDOCHINE FRANCAISEWISE PARTICULIEREMENT
G
DANS CAMBODRE ET LADS LESQUELS FURENT TRAITEDS SUR MEME PIED
E
QUE HABITANTS INDIGENES VIRG GOUVLINAMENT GENERAL PROMULGUA
7/7 L 7/7 DECRET FIXANT ABOLITIO REGLEMENT PRESCRIVANT
PERCEPTION TAXE CAPITATIN EXRESIDE TS THAILANDAIS SUR
MEME BASE QUE HABITANTS INDIGE ES LAOSWISE PARA
12 TOKYO 21/7 LML TOKYO  21/7 COMMENTANT BOMBARDEMENT ROME
( )
PAR FORCES AERIENNES ANTIAXES ASAHI DIT CEMATIN EDITCRIALE-
s
1
MENT QUE NELLE ACTION MOTIVEE PAR DESIR CHURCHILL ROOSDVELT
IT
2
3
LEQUEL VISE ADDEMORALISER FRONT ARRIERE ALIEN NE
4
5
STRVIT QUA DOFI SACRILEGE CONTREVATICAN STOP JOURNAL RAPPELA
6
7
QUE AVANT BOMBARDEMENT CONTE ROME VIRG ROOSEVELT TENTA
ALIENER VTICAN *AFFILIATION ITALIENNE FAISANT PROPOSITION
10
DIRECTE AD PAPE CEPENDANT CTTENTATIVE VISANT OPPOSER
2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
DY:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
CATHOLICISME AD FACISME CHCUA MISERABLEILNT PAR FEFUE NLT
PAPE QUI NACCEPTA PFOPCSITIC TCP FAISANT REARCUERQUE
ENSUITE DANS FAIT SIMPLE UE ROE MEST PAS VILLE ILITAIR
NI CENTRE PRODUCTION GUERRE VIRG JOURNAL DECLAR QUE BCM
OSEULELNTINJUSTIFIED
BARDEMENT RO E PAR ANTIAXEAXX ET
MARISAUSSI CEMNSTITUE DLFI UVLRT CONTRE VATICAN VARG
ACTION POSSIBLE SEULEMENT PAR CHURCHILL ET ROOSEVELT STOP
ATROCITE NATIONS ANTIAXE LAQUELLE SEMONTRA DANS PRESENT
E
BOMBARDEMENT CONTRE ROME EST AUSI GRAVE COMN VANDALISME
A
VANDALES ADQUINZIEME SIECLE CEPENDANT JOURNAL FIT REMARQUR
T
VANDALES PERIRENT LAISSANT CANHOLIQUES ROMAINS SURVIVRE
STOP RAPPELANT ENSUITE PAROLO MACAULEY DISANT UE SI LONDRES
SERA COUVERT EXHERBE VIRG ROME ET ROMAINS CONTINUERONT
PROSPERER STOP ASAHI CONCLUT QUE BOMBARDEMENT VILLE SAINTE
NE SERVIRA QUE CONSOLIDER FRONT ARRIERE ITALIEN PARA
一
13 HANOI 21/7 LML HANOI 21/7 CAPITANE VAISSEAU ROBIN
2
3
SOUSDIRECTEUR BUREAU CONTRDLE MARINE MARCHANDE SUCCEDA
4
CAPITAINE VAISSEAU JOUAN ANCIEN COMITE GENERAL POUR
RELATIONS FRANCOUAPONAISES EN INDOCHINE FRANCAISE DONT POSTE
ETAIT VACANT DEPUIS FIN MAI DERNIER STOP DAUTREPART ONRAP-
PELLE QUE ROBIN FUT OFFICER LIAISON ADCOMMANDA.T FLOTTE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.95)
FIVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
ILE 12718
FREQ KC
ALIFORNIA
CALL
WORKS
FREOKC
FRFOK
IT
FRFO KC
FADF
RST
NAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
M. SHOREY
GM1
FRANCAISE EXTREME ORIENT FI T
FURUNC DR EI AR
N TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
D658 KNEXXER (TAPE DID NIT PFI T)
21
PRESS
DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 1 JUL ST BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 38 TOKYO 21/7 1 TOKYO 21/7
LLANNED
UNPRECEDETE) NUMBEI THREEHUNDILD SEVE TY E TRILS BEEN RECEIVED
x
BY OVERSEAS SECTION BOARD IFORATI
WHICH SPONSORED RRABB
PRIZE CONTEST FOR BEST PLAY  OVIE SCFIPT DESIGNED E'ABLE
INHABITANTS SOUTHERN REGIINS NDERSTODD NIPPONS CULTURE
CIVILIZATION IN ITS TRUE LIGHT STOP BECAUSE LARGE
ENUMBER
SCRIPTS SUBMITTED TO JUDGES AINDUNCE IF T INNERS CRIGINALLY
SCHEDULED FOR JULY ILL POSTPONED UNTIL  IDDLE PARI SEPTEM-
BER TWAS SAID STOP ENTRIES VYING FOR FIRST PRIZE YEN THREE-
D1
( )
THOUSAND OFFERED BY EIJI AMAU PRESIDINT BOARD INFORMATION
s
1
STOP FOR FIVE OTHER NOTABLE WORKS ON SUBJECT THERELL BE BOARD
2
3
INFORMATION PRIZE YEN THREEHUN RED EACH AND ANOTHER YEN FIFTY
FOR HONORABLE MENTION PARA
39 NIPPON BASE 2/7 IML 20/7 UNITS NIPPON NAVAL AIRFORCE
D
NIGHTRAIDE TRINCOMALEE COLOMBO ON CEYLON ISLAND INDIA
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND: 

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT.
FREO KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
INFLICTED CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE ON ENEY MILITARY FACILITIES
STOP ALL OUR PLANES SAFELY BASEWARDED STOP ATTACK AGAINST
CEYLON FIRST OF SYEAR PARA
4 NIPPON BASE 2/7 L 42 IPPC BAL /7
UITS
NIPPON NAVAL IRFORCE BEFOFL DAW 1S/7 ML 19/7 RAIDED
CANTO ISLAND PHOENIX GROUPHICH EY BA E IN HEART PACIFIC
INFLICTED HEAVY DAMAGE O LENY AIRFIELD STOP FURTHERMORE
18/7 1ML 18/7 CTHER UNITG NIPPCN AVAL AIRFCICE AGAI
ATTACKED VANIKORO L VANIKORO ISLAND SAUTACRUZ
1M1
SANTA
CRUZ GRDUP SCORED NEARHITS
0N
ONE ENEMY CRUISER AT ANCHOR
DOWNSHOT ONE ENEMY PLANE PARA
41 KUALALUMPUR 20/7 LMI 41 KUALALUMPUR 20/7 LFFCCTIVE DRUG
M
FOR AMOEBIC DYSENTERY KNOV'NS EMETINE NOW OBTAINABLL IN
LARGE QUANTITIES FROM TH ROOTS OF IPECAC ANHA L
IPECACUANHA WHICHS BEING CULTIVATE ON EXTENSIVE SCALE
s
H
1
CENTRAL PART MALAI PENINSULA STOP IPECACUANEA PLANT INDIS-
2
3
PENSABLE FOR MANUFACTURE EMETINE HERETOFORE CULTIVATED ONLY
4
CES
5
AT SEVERAL PLAEW WORLD SINCE IT REQUIRES FAVORABLE CLIMATIC
6
S
7
CONDITIONS STOP LOW GROWING PLANT TAKLS LEASTLY THREE-
8
M
9
YEARS UNDER GOOD WEATHER CONDITIONS BEFO-E EMETINE CANBE
10
D
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788794

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.96)
VEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
LIFORNIA
OBS
FREQ KC
NAI
FREOKC
1T
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
AL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
EXTRACTED SO THAT TWAS WELLNIGH IMPOSCIBLE FIND SUITABLE AREA
FOR CULTIVATION THIS IMPORTANT PLANT STOP BRITISH BEEN
P
PLANTING IECACUANHA ON SMALL SCALE ALAI DURIG PREWAR
DAYS BUT TWASNT UTIL RECITLY THAT CULTIVATIO PLANT DONE
C EXTENSIVE SCALE STOP BY JAPAHESL HANDS THE ELL BIIEN
ENOUGH EMETINE SUPPLY HEEDS HOLL GREATER EASTASIA COPRO-
SPERITY SPHE E STOP RESEARCH EING CCNDUCTED BY JAFANESE
REVEALED DRUG OBTAINABLE EVEN FROM ONEYEAR OLD PLANT ALSO
IP
FROM LEAVES STEM IECACUANHA STOP SEVERAL SCORE TONS DRIED
PLANT SOON WILL SENT JAPAN FOR MANUFACTURE EMETINE**DICH
M
SPECIALLY THOSE ON
PRODISED TOBE BOON TO ALL PCRSONS
FIGHTING FRONT SUFFERING FROM AMDEBIC DYSENTERY PARA
42 21/7 IML 42 21/7 LEARNED SECOND GFDUP FILIPINO STUDENTS
INCLUDING MARIANO LAUREL SON JOSE LAUREL COMMISSIONER
INTERIOR CHAIRMAN PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE PREPARATORY
s
1
COMMITTEE WHO ARRIVED HERE 19/7 1ML 19/7 SMORNING VISITED
2
3
GREATER EASTASIATIC AFFAIRS MINISTRY AND WAR MINISTRY STOP
4
8
TWENTYSEVEN MEMBERS PARTY WHO HERE STUDY WELCOMED AT
6
7
MINISTRY BY MINISTER KAZUO AOKI ML KAZUO AOKI WHO URGED
8
9
THEM GRASP SIG********(TAPE DID NOT PRINT)
10
2
PAT O00
TO UNIT:

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.98)
GHT
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
AFORNIA
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT:
GMT:
STOP LATER GROUP WENT WAR
IIOTRY WHEL THEY TOLD BY WAR
VICEMINISTER LIEUTGENERAL KYOJI TO IA A RPT KYOJI TOINAGA
DISCARD I DIVIDUALISM ETENCOURAGED EXERT
AXIMUN EFFORTS
FOR ESTABLISHMENT NEW PHILIPPI PARA
43 YOKDHAMA 21/7 ML 43 YOKDHAA 21/7
IN RECOGNITION LCIG YEARS SERVICE FENDERED FOR PRO OTION
FRIENDLY RELATION BET EEN IPFC GLRAY IEICHSFUEHRER
ADOLF HITLEI
SMORNI G PRESENTE) GOVE NOR JOTARO KONDC RPT
JOTARO KONDO
OF KANAGAWA
KANALAWA
APFLFECTUEITH SECOND
ORDER XR STERN DES DEUTCHEN ADEL CRDEN THRCUGH DOCTOR
HEINRICH SEHRHEI RPT HEINRICH SEHRHEI GER AN CCSUL-
GENERAL YOKCHAMAWISE PARA
44 TOKYO 21/7 IML 44 TOKYO 21/7 BEGINNING TODAY WELFARE
MINISTRYS QUOTE SUMMER PHYSICAL MENTAL DEVELOPMENT MOVEMENT
UNQUOTE DESIGNED STIMULATE STRENGTHEN PEOPLES MIND BODY
DURING HOT DROWSY SUMMER WILL CONTINUE FOR PERIOD ONEMONTH
2
3
STOP CALISTHENICS WILL HELD MEMBERS NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIA-
4
5
TIONS COMPANIES FACTORIES AT DGDD LML DGDD DAILY LED BY
6
7
INSTRUCTORS COMMANDS COMING THROUGH RADIO STOP DRILLS
8
9
ALSO PLANNED CREATE HEALTHFUL HABIT RISING RETIRING EARLY
10
2
TO UNIT: CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 178764 

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.96)
WINE
DO NOT WRITE IN
THIS
SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
LE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
ALIFORNIA
FREQKC
FRLOKC
NAI
TI
FRFOKC
MT
FADF
RST
WPA
DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
M. SHREY
GMI
STOP KENDO JIUJITSU NL KENDO JIUJITSU ARCHERY BAYONET RIFLE
WARTIME
TARGET PRACTICE ALSO INCLUDED IN PROGRAM ASPART PROERAM DRILL
STOP MEANWHILE INDIVIDUALS WILL ENCOURAGED UPTAKE SWIMMING
HIKING WRESTLING LONGDISTANCE MARCHES TO UPBUILD BODY STOP
MOREOVER EVERY SCHOOL COUNTRY ISE EXGRAMMAR SCHOOL TO UNI-
VERSITY WILL HAVE THEIR STUDENTS UPTAKE FARMING FOR CERTAIN
PERIOD WELLS SEAMEN TRAINING TO UPBUILD BODY PHYSICALLY
SPIRITUALLY END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
2
CQ DE JUP/JUQ PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 17OD JUL 2ND BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 7 YOKOHAMA 21/7 1ML 7 YOKOHAMA 21/7
REICHSFUEHRER HITLER DECORATED GOVERNOR KOTARO KONDO IML
KOTARO KONDO OF KANAGAWA IML KANAGAWA PREFECTURE SECOND
DRDER STERN DES DEUTSCHEN ADEL ORDER FOR LONG SERVICE TOWARD
s
1
PROMOTING FRIENDLY RELATIONS BETWEEN JAPAN GERMANY STOP DE-
2
3
CORATION PRESENTED AMORNING BY DOCTOR HEINRICH SEHRHEIM
5
ILL HEINRICH SEHRHEIM GERMAN CONSULGENERAL HERE PARA
08 JAPANESE BASE 28/7 LML 8 JAPANESE BASE 20/7 IN FIRST
RAID AGAINST CEYLON SYEAR JAPANESE NAVAL AIR UNITS 18/7
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 1

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CAIL
WORKS
REOKC
FRFOKC
IT
FRFOKC
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
CGMI
IMI 18/7 NIGHTRAIDED COLOMBO IMICOLOMBO TRINCOMALEE INFLICT-
ING CONSIDERABLE DAMAGE MILITARY INSTALLATIONS STOP ALL
JAPANESE PLANES RETURNED BASEWARD PARA
9 JAPANESE BASE SOUTHWEST PACIFIC 2L/7 INI 2L/7 JAP NESE
NAVAL AIR UNITS BEFORE DAWN 19/7 1MI 1S/7 ATTACKED CANTON
IMI CANTON ISLAND PHOENIX GROUP CAUSING HEAVY DAMAGE NILITARY
INSTALLATIONS STOP ON 18/7 1MI 18/7 JAPANESE NAVAL AIRCRAFT
AGAIN RAIDED VANIKORO IMI VANIKORO ISLAND SANTACRUZ INI
SANTACRUZ GROUP SCORING NEAR HITS ONE ENEMY CRUISER AT
ANCHOR STOP ALSO ONE ENENY PLANE DOWNSHOT PARA
1 JAPANESE BASE SOUTHWEST PACIFIC 2L/7 IMI 2L/7 COMBINED
LAND AIR OPERATIONS VICINITY BUIN BOUGAINVILLE ISLAND DOWN-
BROUGHT OR DAMAGED TOTAL FORTYFIVE ENEMY AIRCRAFT OUTOF
0810
ONEFIFTY THAT RAIDED MORNING 18/7 MI 18/7 JAPANESE POSITION
TEN KILOMETERS NORTHEAST BUIN STOP ATTACKERS CONSISTED ABOUT
s
1
TWENTY CONSOLIDATED BEE TWENTYFOURS FORTY DECKBOMBERS NINETY
2
3
FIGHTERS WHEREOF JAPANESE NAVAL AIR UNITS DOWN TWENTYSEVEN
5
ENEMY FIGHTERS ONE DECKBOMBER ONE BEE TWENTYFOUR TOTALING
6
7
TWENTYNINE ENEMY PLANES STOP JAPANESE SUFFERED DAMAGE TO TWO
PLANES STOP MEANWHILE JAPANESE ARMY ANTIAIRCRAFT BATTERIES
10
DOWNSHOT ONE BEE TWENTYFOUR BOMBER ONE AVENGER DECKBOMBER
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 17

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
1443
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
T.
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
ONE GRUMAN FIGHTER ALSO DAMAGED TWELVE BEE TWENTYFOUR BOMB-
ERS STOP SAMEDAY ONE FLYING FORTRESS DOWNSHOT BY ANTIAIR-
CRAFT BATTERIES WHEN SEVERAL BEE SEVENTEENS NADE NAGHT RAID
ON ISLAND SAME DAY PARA
11 TOKYO 21/7 IMI TOKYO 21/7 OUTPOINTING RECENT REPORTS
SURPLUS LOOMS EXJAPANESE SPINNING INDUSTRIES ARRIVED BURMA
ETPHOTO IMI BURMA ETPHOTO IN JAPANESE PAPERS SHOWING FILIP-
INO GIRL OPERATIVE WORKING SPINNING MILL INDICATE BEGINNING
INDEPENDENT INDIGENOUS INDUSTRY IN VARIOUS COUNTRIES OF
SOUTH NIPPONTIMES DECLARED THEY INDICATE RAPIIITY ETSUCCESS
JAPANS CONSTRUCTION WORK ALSO NATURE ECONOMIC PLAN UNDER-
LYING JAPANS VISION GREATER EASTASIS COPROSPERITY SPHERE
STOP STATED ALSO TH*ITITUTE ANOTHER PROOF INVINCIBILITY OF
THIS WORLD OF FREE ASIATIC NATIONS WHICH HAS COME INTO
( )
EXISTENCE IN THIS PART GLOBE STOP UOTPOINTED QUOTE NOT
s
1
LEAST OF MANY FEATURES WHICH MADE WAR GREATER EASTASI UNI-
2
3
QUE AMONG WARS OF HISTORY IS FACT WORK CONSTRUCTION PROCEED-
4
5
ING APACE WITH WORK FIGHTING STOP MOST WARS ARE WARS OF DE-
6
7
STRUCTION STOP WHATEVER RECONSTRUCTION THERE MAY ENSUE GEN-
8
9
ERALLY FOLLOWS RESTORATION PEACE STOP BUT IN JAPANS CONDUCT
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY  INTERCEPTS  ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1785764

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
ORS
FRFOKC
NAI
FREOKC
rr
FRFO KC
AMT
FADE
RST
WPM
MN
DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
ANAL YST
GMI
WAR WORK CONSTRUCTION LOOMS FULLY AS IMPORTANT AS ACTUAL
INTEGRAL
CONDUCT HOSTILLTIES ETTHIS CONSTHUCTIONS IN AS
PART HER WAR EFFORT AS FIGHTING ITSELF STOP IT MEANS PROC-
ESS WHICH NORMALLY FOLLOWS WAR BEEN TELESCOPED INTO WAR
ITSELF WITH RESULT PERMANENT PRODUCTIVE STRUCTURE FOR NEW
WORLD IS COMING INTO EXISTENCE THAT MUCH SOONER STOP IN
OTHER WORDS ULTIMATE OBJECT WAR IS BEING ACHIEVED THAT MUCH
SOONER DASH VICTORY IS THAT MUCH NEARER AT HAND STOP ASTER-
ISKS BEGINNING INDIGENOUS INLUSTRY IN COUNTRIES OF SOUTH
SHOWS JAPANS PLAN FOR COPROSPERITY SPHERE ENVISAGES DEVEL-
OPMENT ECONOMIC SELFSUFFICIENCY ETINDEPENDENCE FOR ALL MEM-
BER STATES ASTERISKS ON PREMISE THAT FULL DEVELOPMENT EACH
UNIT WILL REBOUND TO ULTINATE WELFARE OF ALL UNQUOTE STOP
NIPPONTIMES STATES QUOTE LEAGUE FREE ETSELFRESPECTING ASI-
( )
ATIC NATIONS INDEPENDENT IN UNFOLDING OF THEIR RESPECTIVE
s
NATIONAL DESTINIES BUT COOPERATING IN ETHANCEMENT OF THEIR
2
3
MUTUAL PROSPERITY WILL NATURALLY BE SO STRONG THAT DISAP-
5
POINTMENT IS BOUND TOBE IN STORE FOR ENEMY WHO WOULD LIKE
6
7
TO SEE THESE ASIATIC COUNTRIES DIVIDED TIED SEPARATELY TO
8
THEIR EUROPEAN ETAMERICAN MASTERS AGAIN AS IN PAST STOP
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - EARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATND

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
1443
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
FREQ'KC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
ANALYST:
GRIFFIN
GMT:
WHATEVER MAY BE EXIGENCIES OF BATTLE AT MOMENT IN VARIOUS
LOCAL THEATERS OF HOSTILITIES NOTHING CAN LONG PREVAIL
AGAINST COLOSSAL FACT JAPANS SUCCESSFUL WORK CONSTRUCTION
THROUGHOUT EASTASIA UNQUOTE PARA
12 HANO1 21/7 1MI 12 HANO1 21/7 ANNOUNCED CAPTAIN ROBIN
VICECHIEF SHIPPING CONTROL BUREAU OF GOVTGENERAL APPOINTED
0
CHIEF FRANCHJAPANESE RELATIONS BUREAU WHICH BEEN VACANT
SINCE RESIGNATION CAPTAIN JOUAN LATTER PART MAY SY** STOP
ROBIN ENTERED FRENCH NAVY 1914 IMI 1914 ETSERVED WITH FRENCH
YANGTZE RIVER SQUADRON ETFRENCH INDO CHINA SEA SQUADRON
STOP LATER APPOINTED LEAISON OFFICER TO COMMANDER FRENCH
FAREASTERN FLEET UNTIL HIS APPOINTMENT MARCH 1942 1Mi 1942
AS VICECHIEF SHIPPING CONTROL BUREAU PARA
13 SHONAN 21/7 MI 13 SHONAN 21/7 KING GEORGE FIFTH LARGEST
( )
FLOATING DRYDOCK WORLDWISE SUNK PARBRITISH AT SELETAR NAVAL
s
1
BASE ORDER PREVENT FALLING INTO JAPANESE HANDS BEEN SUCCESS-
2
3
FULLY REFLOATED BY JAPANESE NAVAL ENGINEERS CUMCOOPERATION
4
5
NATIVE CHINESE WORERS STOP SALVAGING WORK BEEN PROGRESSING
6
7
SINCE MARCH SYEAR PARA
8
9
14 TOKYO 21/7 IML 14 TOKYO 21/7 BITTERLY FLAYING BARBAROUS
10
2
PAT. NO. 1798794
TO UNIT:

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
12718
ACTION TAKFN:
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
ORS
011
FREOKC
FREOKC
11
FREO KC
CMT
FADE
RST
WPA
LDESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GMI
DAYLIGHT BOMBING ROME WHICH RESULTED DESTRUCTION QUOTE
H
PRICELESS ISTORIC MONUMENTS HUMAN CIVILIZATION UNQUOTE
INCLUDING BASILICA SAN LORENZO TOMOKAZU HORI IMI TOMOKAZU
HORI SPOKESMAN BOARD INFORNATION DECLARED UNONLY ITALIAN
H
PEOPLE BUT THREEHUNDREDS AILLION CATHOLICS WELLS ZUNDRED
MILLION OTHERS THROUGHOUT WORLI BEEN AROUSED QUOTE IN ALL
THEIR INDIGNATION ETRIGHTEOUS WRATH AGAINST ANGLOAMERICAN
VANDALS UNQUOTE STOP HORI RECALLED ROOSEVELT CHURCHILL ON
COMMENCEMENT SICILIAN OPERATIONS ATTEMPTED CAJOLE INTIMI-
DATE ITALIAN PEOPLE THROUGH SCATTERING HANDBILLS ONCALLING
THEM UPGIVE FIGHT STOP OUTPOINTED THIS FAILED BECAUSE
0
IN CONTRAST ENEMY CAMP WHSE MEMBERS TEMPORARILY UNITED
PROPURSUIT THEIR RESPECTIVE SELFISH INTERESTS ASTE
(FADE,UNREADABLE)
( )
AXIS POWERS FIRMLY UNITED PARSPIRITUAL BOND THEIR COMMON
s
1
PURPOSE ATTAINING THEIR GREATIDEAL UNQUOTE STOP ADDED ROOS-
2
E
3
0844
VELT CHURCHILL QUOTE HAVING FAILED THEIR NAIVE ATTEMPT
4
5
DEMORALIZE ITALIAN PEOPLE ETEIISRUPT AXIS RELATIONS ASTERISKS
6
7
RESORTED TO THEIR DESPERATE BUT USUAL METHOD DA** *** ****
8
9
HISTORIC CITY ROME UNQUOTE STOP ADDED REQUOTE AS RESULT
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND: 17

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GY.
GRIFFIN
INDEXED DY
ANALYST:
GMT:
THEIR BARBAROUS DAYLIGHT BOMBING PHICELESS HISTORICAL MONU-
C
MENTS TO HUMAN CIVILIZATION SUTHS SA LORENZO BASILICA ETC
*MPO VERANO BOTH SITUATED FARAWAY EXANY MILITARY ESTABLISH-
MENTS BEEN DEMOLISHED TO EXTEND NO RPT NO AMOUNT EALTH OR
POWER CAN RESTORE THEM TO THEIR FORNER ANCIENT GLORY STOP
HAVING PERPETRATED SUCH ACTS VANDALISM ENEMY NOW LOUDLY
CLAIMING THEY DONE
EVERYTHING POSSIBLE AVOID DAMAGING CUL-
TURAL INSTITUTIONS
STOP SUCH BEEN ONLY IMPORTANT RESULT
FIRST BOMBING RONE PARANGLOANERICAN ENEMIES WHO DECLARED IN
ROOSEKELT MESSAGE TO POPE ONLY TEN DAYS AGO SUBQUOTE CHURCHES
WI
ETRELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS
S TO E**TENT THAT RATHIN OUR POWER
WILL SPARED DEVASTATIONS WAR DURING STRUGGLES AHEAD UNQUOTE
ETIN HANDBILLS WHICH THEY SCATTERED OVER ITALY IMMEDIATELY
BEFORE BOMBING THAT COMING BOMBING WOULD CONFINED TO MILI-
TARY ESTABLISHMENTS
本本本本
(UNREADABLE)
5
1
THEIR INDIGNATION ETRIGHTEOUS WRATH AGAINST ANGLOAMERICAN
2
3
VANDALS STOP ITS THUS THAT ANGLOAMERICAN COUNTRIES UNONLY
4
5
ENEMY AXIS POWERS WHO FIGHTING PROESTABLISHMENT WORLD BASED
6
7
8
0853
UPON RIGHTEOUSNESS ETJUSTICE BUT THEY MAKING THEMSELVES
9
DESTROYER WORLD CIVILIZATION PROWHICH CRIME THEYLL HAVE PAY
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17794

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
REQKC
FREO KC
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
I～N
L DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GM1
DEARLY ON DAY RECKONING WHICH UNFAR DISTANT UNQUOTE END
BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
0855
(END INTERCEPT)
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
13065
NAT
FREORC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT.
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
823
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
1330
PRESS DE JUP/JU HR NW BC AT 2230 JULY 21ST BT
DOMEI SEIFUWA IJKUHINO TEIREIKAKUGINI TETUDOO SHARYOONO KEIKAKU
ZOOSANKAKUHONI KRNSURUCENWO FUGI SUZUKIKIKAKUIN SOOSAIYORI SHOO-
IAI SETUMEIKETTEI DOOHIGOGOSANJI JOOHOOKYOKUYORI HAPPYOO TETUDOO-
SHARYOONO KEIKAKU SEISANJOONO AIROWO KIRIHIRAKU TAMENO BANZENNO-
SISAKUO KISURU KOTOTONATTARA KONOKEKKA JUURAI SHOOKOODAIJINNO
KRDTOKUKANIATTA TETUDOO SHARYOOKOOJOOWA KOKKR SOODOOINHOONI
MOTOZUKI TETUDOODAIJINNO KANRITONARUHOKA SONOSEIZOO SHUUZEN
NOORYOKMAKKINOTAME KANMINNO GIJUTU ROOMU SIZAI SISETU KEIKENNA-
DOGA SOOGOOTEKINI UNYEI SERARERUNADO KAKUSHUNOSOTIGA KOOZERARERU
KOTOTONATTA PARA SENKYOKUNO SINTENTOTOMONI SEIFUWA SAKUNENJUUGATU
SENJIRIKUUN HIJOOTAISEIO KETTEISI ENGANBUSSINO YUSOONITUITEWA
DEKIRUKAGIRI SENPAKUNIYORAZU RIKUUNNI IBONSURU HOOSINWO KETTEISI
KOREO JISSICHUUDE ARUGA SONOGO SENKYOKUWA SARANI RIKUUNNO ZOOK-
YOOWO HITUYOOTO SURUNIYITARI SHOORAINO JITAINI TAISHOSURU TAM-
ENIMO KONOSAI TETUDOO SHARYOONO KINKYUUZOOSANWO HITUYOOTOSURUNI
2
3
ITATTAMONODE KONOKEKKA TETUDOONI KANSITEWA TUKURUHOOMO HASIRASU-
4
5
HOOMO TOMONI TETUDOODAIJINNO ITIGENTEKI UNYEINI YUDANEYOOTO
6
7
SURUMONODEARI SHARYOOSEIZOONI KANSITE GOJUUTEN SANGYOONAMINO
8
9
TORIATUKAIO OKONAU KOTOTONATTANOMO SONO ARAWARETO MIRUKOTOGA
10
DEKIRU JUURAI TETUDOOSMOO CHOKUEIKOOJOO KIKANKU KENSHAKUWA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
ORS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAI
FREO KC
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
INDIRCATORS
112
823
ANALYST
GM1
MOPPARA SHUUZENNOMIO OKONATTAGA SONO KOOJOONADONO NOORYOKUWA
GIJUTUTEKINIMM ROOKUKANKEI SIZAI SISETU KEIKENNO UEKARAMW MINKAN
DAIKUJOONI HITTEKI SURUDAKENO JITURYONEUO YUUSITEIRUNODE KONOR**
OOSHAGA SOOGOOTEKI ITTAITEKINI UNYEISERARERU AKATUKINO SEISAN
NOORYOKUWA MASANI KAKKITEKINA HIYAKUGA KITAIDEKI KATUSHARYOONO
SENJIKIKAKUO JISSITETTEI SURUKOTONINATTE KONOKEIKOOWA SARANI
HAKUSMAO KAKERUKOTOMO UTAGAIOIRENAI NAO KANRIKOOJOOWA KORETO
KANRENSURU KENGYOO BUBUNHINWOYOBI SANGYOO SHARYOONADOWOMO FUKUMETE
SHOOKOOSHOOTO SESSHOOSITE KETTEISARERU HAZUDEARU PARA NIJUUITIHINO
MAINITISINBUNWA KIKINI HINSURU KOKKYOOKANKEITO DAISURU SHASETUO
KAKAGE TUGINOGOTOKU RONJITEIRU CHUUGOKU KYOOSANTOONO KONKYOTI
SENKANT IMENKUO HOOISITEITA SHOOKAISEKINO CHOKKEIGUN KOSOONANBU-
TAIGA JUUNANAHIRAI CHUUKYOOGUN JINTINIMUKATTE KOOGEKIO TUZUKETE
IRUTOYUU JUUKEIJOOHOOWO UNOKISURUKOTOWA DEKINAIGA SHOONO CHUUKYOONI
( )
TAISURU KYOOATUTEKI TAIDOGA SAKKON KIWAMETE ROKOTUTONATTE IRUKOTOWA
8
1
GHUUMOKUNI ATAISURU JUUKEI KOKUMINTOOTO ENAN KYOOSANTOOTO SAIGASSA-
2
3
KUIRAI DOOSHOKUIMUNO KANKEIOTUZUKE SONOSOOKOKU FUNSOOWA NENCHUUG-
YOOJIKA SITEITE MEZURASIKUWA NAINODEARUGA KONKAINO SHOONO CHUUKY-
OONI TAISURU KYOOATUWA JUURAINOTOWA HIJOONI OMOMUKIO KOTONISITEIRU
KANANNO SEINOKU SINATIKU BOODOONOHAIGONI CHUUKYOONO MASHUGA UGOITE-
10
IRUKOTOGA MANMEISURUYA SHOOWA ENANNO CHUUKYOO SHUNOOBUNITAISI
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ'KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT.
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
823
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYT:
GMT
AOKKYOO GASSAKUNO SHUSIO CHUUJITUNI MAMORI HOKUSI NITIGUNNI
TAISITE SEKKYOKUTEKI KOOSEINI IDEYOTO GENJUU TUUTATUSITA NODEARU
SIKASI CHUUKYOO SHUNOOBUWA KORENI MEITOOWO ATAEZU IZENTOSITE
BOODOONO KAKUDAIO SAKUBOOSITUTU JUUKEINITAISI SENKANNEIHENKU
OYOBI SONTA KAKUSHOOKUNO CHUUKYOOSEIJI SOSIKIO ITIRITUNI KAISHOO-
1352
SURUKARA SONOKAWARI CHUUKYOOWO GOOHOO SEITOOTOSITE SAIKAKUNIN
SEYOTO ITTAYOOKYUUO SIJISITANODEARU CHUUKYOO SHUNOOBUWA SEIHOKU-
TIKUNO BOODOOWO KAKUDAI SESIMERUKOTONI YOTTE JUUKEISEIRYOKUNO
DOOTIKUENO SINSHUTUO SOSISI SEIHOKUNO KAIHATUNARABINI SONOCHUUOOKAO
JAMASURUTO DOOJINI GOOHOO SEITOOTOSITE SAIKAKUNIN SESIMETE KOKU-
MINTOOTO TAITOONO TIYIO KAKUTOKUSIYOOTT UITOSITE IRUNODEARU CHUUKY-
OOWO KOONITINOTAMENO DOOGUTOSIKA KANGAETEINAI SHOOGA CHUUKYOONO
KONOYOOKYUUO IRERUHAZUGANAI TADANI IRENAIB* ARIKA KAETTE SAKATETI
DETANODEARU SHOOTOSITEWA DAISAN KOKUSAINO KAISHOONIW JI CHUUKY-
OONI ITIDAIKYOOATUO KUWAETE KOONITIO YOSONISITE JUUKEIGAWANI
1
NOMIMUKETEIRU CHUUKYOO SHUNOOBUNO KAOWO HOKUSINO NIPPONGUNE
2
3
MUKENAOSI SEKKYOKUTEKI KOOSAKUNI IDESASERU KOTONIYOTTE JUUKEINO
4
5
SEIHOKUTI KAIHATUNO BOOGAIO JOKYOSIYOOTO KETUISITE KIKANO
6
7
KOSOONANGUNNI CHUUKYOOTIKUNO HOOIODENMEISI KONNITINI ITATTEIRU-
8
9
NODA SHOONO CHUUKYOONI TAISURUITOGA MIGINO GOTOKUDEARI KOONITISEN
10
KEIZOKUNOTAME SHOOWA GHUUKYOOWO BURYOKUDE TETTEITEKINI DANATU
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17784

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
2718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
ORS
NA1
FREO KC
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
AL DESCRIPTION
823
ANAL YST
GMT
SIYOOTOMADEWA KANGAETE INAIYOODEARU YUENIYIMA TADATINI KOKKYOO
SAIQONO OOGENKAGA HIJIMARUTOWA OMOWARENAIGA CHUUKYOOWA HATASITE
DOODERUDEAROOKA PARA ZENKOKU GINKOOYOKIN SOOGAKUWA SAKUNEN
ROKUGATUSUE YONHYAKUOKUTAIO TOPPA IRAI KANMINYITTINO CHOTIKUSHOORE
SOKUSINNI TOMONAI HONNEN ROKUGATUSUE TINI GOHYAKUOKUENNO DAIKAN-
MONWO TOPPA GOHYAKU JUUHATIOKU HASSEN YOMANYENWO JIGENSURUNI
ITATTA PARA AR
ANOTHERS ANOTHERS ANOTHERS BT
DBFHQ CUWJY WRJQO ZWMJA ZWJEN ZZPMT JRCKL VENBZ WQHFE HTSDG
NXNEN KBWND CIQMS OCCFX DYSHG AR
(COLL CHECKED)
1407
(DOTS, REPEATS MESSAGE AGAIN)
NM TU VA
1709
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
STOP MOREOVER FORTYSEVEN INCLUDING ETGENERAL SHIGEMASA AOKI
S
WHO DIED WHILE FIGHTING FRONTLINE SOUTHERN REGION SPECIALLY
1
2
MONORED PRONIGNLY MERITORIOUS DEEDS STOP OUTSTANDING AMONG THESE
3
FORTYSEVEN MEROES COLON MAJOR TADAO ODAIRA RPT TADAO ODAIRA WHO
5
6
7
PREVIOUSLY GRANTED CITATION STOP IN SMASHING ADVANGE JAPANESE
8
FORGES BURMAWISE TOWARD SITTANG RIVER FEBURARY YESTERYEAR ODAIRA
10
COMMANDING REGONNAISSANCE AIR SQUADRON SCOUTED ENEMYS POSITION TO
2
PAT: NO: 
TO UNIT:

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
UY
823
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
GREAT ADVANTAGE IMPERIAL FORCES ETFINALLY DELIBERATELY CRASHED
MIS PLANE AGAINST ENEMYS POSITION STOP CAPTAIN KINKICHI YAMAMOTO
RPT KINKICHI YAMAMOTO WHO DECORATED WITH FOURTHCLASS ORDER
GOLDEN KITE ETSIXTHCLASS ORDER RISING SUN RAIDED ENEMY AIRFIELD
RANGOON SEVEN TIMES JANUARY YESTERYEAR AS COMMANDER FIGHTER
SQUADRON SETTING ABLAZE THREE ENEMY BOMBERS ETFINALLY DELIBERATELY
CRASHDIVING INTO ENEMY OBJECTIVE STOP MOVED BY HIS GALLANTRY
BRITINDIAN ARMY HONORED HIM WITH MILITARY FUNERAL STOP ONEHUNDRED
SIXTYFIVE LIVING PERSONS INCLUDING DOCTOR KOSHIRO SHIBA RPT
KOSHIRO SHIBA WERE RECIPENTS HONORS GRANTED CIVILIANS WHO CONTRI-
BUTED TOWARD ECONOMIC CONSTRUCTION MANCHOUKUO ETCHINA OR BOOSTING
WAR PRODUCTION SINCE OUTBREAK CHINA AFFAIR STOP EIST FORTYFOURTH
CONFERMENT HONORS ON THOSE WHOVE RENDERED VALUABLE SERVICES IN
PROSECUTION CHINAAAFFAIR INCLUDED ONESIXTYFIVE PERSONS CONNECTED
CUMNATIONS WARTIME INDUSTRIES ACCORDING ANOTHER ANNOUNCEMENT
JOINTLY MADE TODAY WARMISTRY BUREAU DOCORATIONS STOP PERSONS
2
3
WHO DECORATED MAINLY TECHNICIANS WHO EITHER AIDED IN OR DEVISED
4
5
NEW WEAPONS OR ASSISTED IN ADVANCEMENT ARMAMENT AMMUNITIONS
6
7
INDUSTRIES PARTICULARLY IN MANUFACTURING AIRCRAFT STOP PROMINENT
8
9
AMONG THOSE WHO DECORATED CUMSIXTHCLASS ORDER SAGRED TREASURE
10
HEIMA SHIONOSAKI RPT HEIMA SHINOSAKI CHIEF KORIYANA FACTORY
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1785764

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
REQKC
FREO KC
NAT
rT
FREO KC
CMT
FADF
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION
FMN
823
GMI
HODOGAYA CHEMICAL INDUSTRY COMPANY FOR HIS STRENOUS EFFORTS AND
SUCCESS IN ACHIEVING LARGESCALE PRODUCTION SUPERIOR QUALITY
ETHYL WHICHS INDISPENSABLE IN MANUFACTURE AVIATION FUEL STOP
HLE
KOJI OGAWA RPT KOJI OGAWA CF DRAFT DEPARTMENT SUMITOMO METAL
WORKS FOR HIS SUCCESS IN PRODUCTION NEWTYPE METAL PROPELLER STOP
SHOJI KOBAYASHI RPT SHOJI KOBAYASHI TECHNICIAN OF JAPAN ELECTRIC
COMPANY FOR HIS RESRCH SUCCESS DEVISING NEW WEAPON CONTROLLABLE
BY SHORT VE PA
PARA 3 NANKING 21/7 ORDER COPE CUMINCREASING DIPLOMATIC AFFAIRS
RESULTING EXRESTORATIO ITERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT SHANGHAI OFFICE
WAICHIAOPU BRACKET FOREIGN MINISTRY ANBRACKET NATIONAL GOVERNMENT
EQ
WILL ENLARGED ETRRGANIZED TWAS (UNREADABLE) YESTERDAY STOP
GOVERNMENT ORTEDLY SELECTING NEW CHIEF PROSHANGHAI OFFICE MEANW-
WHILE SINOINFORMED CIRCLES SHANGHAI EXPRESSED OPINION T
MOVELL RESULT APPOINTMENT DIPLOMATIC OFFICIAL C*RANK 
s
1
THAN AMBASSADOR STOP OPINEOVE STRENGTHEN SHANGHAI OFFICES
2
3
CONSTITUTES RECOGNITION GROWING IMPORTANCE SHANGHAI IN WORLD
4
5
DIPLOMATIC AFFAIRS WHICH ENHANCED CUMIMPENDING RETURN INTERNATIONAL
6
7
SETTLEMENT FRENCM CONCESSION TO NATGOVERNMENT
8
9
PARA Ø4 BANGKOK 21/7 DISCLOSED PREPARATERY COMMITTEE FOR TAKING
10
OVER TERRITORIES TO INCORPORATED INTO THAILAND SCHEDULED MEET
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAI
FREQ KC
π
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
823
INDEXLD BY
ANALYST
GMT:
ONCE TWICE MORE SMONTH BEFORE OPENING NEGOTIATIONS CUMJAPANESE
EMBASSY HERE STOP PREPARATORY COMMITTEE COMPOSED REPRESENTATIVES
VARIOUS GOVERNMENTAL DEPARTMENTS THAILAND ALREADY MET THREETIMES
SINCE ITS INITIAL CONFERENCE 17/7 ETAGREED GENERAL PRINCIPLES
PARA 5 SHONAN 21/7 ANNOUNCED ONE GREATEST SALVAGING FEATS
HISTORY RECENTLY COMPLETED WHEN JAPANESE NAVAL SALVAGING EXPERTS
RELOATED WORLDS LARGEST FLOATING DOCK WHICH SCUTTLED PARBRITISH
BEFORE FALL SINGAPORE STOP FORMER KING GEORGE FIFTH FLOATING
DOCK CLAIMED PARBIRITSH BE LARGEST WORLDWISE ETABLE ACCOMMODATE
SHIPS UP TO FITYTHOUSAND TONS REFLOATED PARJAPANESE NAVAL
SALVAGERS IN SHORT SPACE THREE MONTHS POSTWORK ACTUALLY UNDERTAKED
STOP RAISING GIANT DOCK ACCOMPLISHED THROUGH EXPERT DIRECTION
JAPANESE SALVAGERS ETCOOPERATION LOCAL INDIAN CHINESE MALAI WORK-
ERS THOUSANDS WHOM WORKED ON IMMENSE PROJECT STOP DOCK CONSTRUC-
TED ENGLAND NINETEEN TWENTYEIGHT ETTOWED SINGAPORE FOLLOWING
s
YEAR DASH IN ITSELE SIGNAL FEAT UNDASH TO MAKE SINGAPORE BRITAINS
2
3
QUOTE GIBRALTAR OF EAST UNQUOTE STOP DOCKS OVERALL LENGTH EIGHT-
4
5
7 MUNDRED FIFTYFIVE FECT OUTSIDE WIDTH ONEHUNDRED SEVENTYTWO
6
7
FEET INSIDE WIDTH ONENUNDRED THIRTY FEET ETHEIGHT SEVENTYFIVE
8
9
FEET STOP DOCK WEIGNS TWENTYTHOUSAND TONS EMPTY ETDISPLACES
10
ONETWENTY THOUSAND TONS STOP TREMENDOUS BUOYANCY DOCK WHICH CAN
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178794

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
FREOKC
ORS
FREO KC
FRFO KC
C.MT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
AL DESCRIPTION
117
823
GMI
ACCOMMODATE VESSELS UP TO FIFTYTHOUSAND TONS DASH LARGEST KNOWN
BATTLESHIPS AFLOAT UNDASH WELLS ITS OWN WEIGHT TWENTYTHOUSAND
TONS CREATED PARFIFTYTWO TANKS WHICH OCCUPY MOST WALL SP*E
DOCK STOP BRITISH COMMAND SINGAPORE ANTICIPATING JAPANESE
CAPTURE SELETAR ETLATER SINGAPORE ITSELF SCUTTLED IANT DOCK
END DECEMBER NINETEEN FORTYONE PAROPENING OMNIWATER VALVES
STOP BRITISH ALSO CUT SIDEPLATES DOCK SIX PLACES CUMUSE ACETYLENE
TORCHES STOP REVEALED TWAS END JANUARY SYEAR WHEN SALVAGING EXPERTS
JAPANESE NAVY FIRST COMMENCED TESTS CUMOBJECT ULTIMATELY RAISING
DOCK STOP TWO MONTHS SPENT IN VARIOUS PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION
WORK STOP COMMENCING MARUH JAPANESE DIVERS COMMENCED UNDERWATER
REPAIRS ON DOCK ETBY /BEGINNING THIS MONTH OMNIREPAIRS COM-
PLETED ETPOWERFUL PUMPS INSTALLED ETTESTED STOP AS INITIAL TESTS
SATISFACTORY WORK SLOY CONTINUED FLOATING OPERATIONS COMPLETED
SEVERAL DAYS AGO STOP OUTPOINTED FEAT PARTICULARLY NOTABLE VIEW
FACT DURING PERIOD DIVERS WORK ONE SUNKEN SHIP D BE REFLOATED
F
2
ETONE SERIOUS LEBK UPPATCHED OP ADDED ONE GREATEST DIWZIGULTIES
WAS MAINTENANCE BALANCE DOCK DURING REFLOATING OPERATIONS STOP
UNDERSTOOD NO TIME WILL LOST PLACING DOCK INTO FULL OPERATION
END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JAP/JUP
1862
TO UNIT:
PAT HOT

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.96)
ADBRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
CHAIRMAN
T. J. BLOWIE. SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
XASXINOXTOX X XKXQ
PAYNE
AVEN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
WAKEFIELD
August 11, 1943
DURR
JIA SPECIAL MESSENGEP
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Honorable Adol: A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretor, of State
Departma.t uf tate
Washington, D. C.
894.76/145
My dear Mr. Perle:
Attacned hcrewith are adiitional copies of Domel
Press interce ted fren Japanese static.s.
894.76
"ery truly yours,
Aunorman
S. W. Horman. Acting Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
SEP 6-1943
Attachments
FILED
OF FOREIGN
DIV.
AUGI1943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PS
/LF
bnal File
FORDEFENSE
BUY
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AID SEAMPS

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALIF.
779
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
6330
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT.
TT-
FREQ
25
A-2
3
566
GMT
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
DOMEI PRESS
EMN
BAD QRM.
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
ANALYST:
GMT:
1215 (TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
71 ISTANBUL 7/8 EXANKARA WITH HEFERENCE NOTE HANDED TURKISH
GOVERNMENT BY UNISTATES CONCERNING RIGHTS NEUTRAL COUNTRIES
PROTECTION FASCISTS EXILES TURKISH GOVERNNENT APPEARS BEEN
 UNNECESSARY REPLY CONSILERING SAII NOT INCOMPATIBLE
WITH
N
INTEHNATIONAL LAW AND TURKISH TRADITION STOP EEUMEROUS TURK-
ISH PAPERS ATTACKED UNIS ATES ATTITUDE WHICH BRANDING AXIS
LEADERS AS ONLY ONES GUILTY OF WAR AND INFRINGING RIGHTS IN
SEVEREIGN STATES STOP AKSHAN DECLAREL PRESENT MOMENT UNPRO-
PER FOR JUDGING GUILTY ONES FOR TIIS AR STONE BELLIGERENT
SIDE ONLY CANNON ISSUE EDICTS FOR THIS SUBJECT STOP AMERI-
CAN NOTE CREATE FEELINGS INCOMPATIBLE WITH DIGNITY OF NEU-
TRAL COUNTRIES STOP ANTIAXIS VERSUS AXIS MAY EXPRESS THEIR
DESIRES TO NEUTRAL COUNTRIES BUT NEVER WITH MENACING ET-
SEVERE TONE AS THIS STOP DEMOCRACIES ALWAYS SAY THEY FIGHT-
( )
ING FOR INTERNATIONAL JUSTICE BUT IN THIS CASE THEY THEM-
1
2
3
SELVES NEGLECTED THIS VERY THING UNQUOTE END BT
4
5
FURUNO DOMEI AR
6
7
1220 NM TO DE JZG VA
8
CQ PRESS DE JZG HR NW BC AT 213∅ AUG 7TH BI
9
10
NR 038 CK 133 6007 6300 9907 0681 4145 7193 2480 7465 6390
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1774

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
FREQKC
NAI
FREQ KC
MT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GMI
0589 1129 0169 1658 3981 1444 467 2582 5280 6390
8589 3981 1444 0874 3195 961 647 366 5280 257
581 0644 0589 2455 248 269 7126511 594 7325
1224
966 7035 6586 3810 2392 499 248 2429 361 5883
7193 132 2814 0523 5417 2974 7309 k74 3195 2814
1571 2852 0501 0017 8613 245€ 99x0 0961 607 6300
4587 6057 0588 1353 9907 007 8582 0061 2514 2480
3127 4099 5903 0364 0681 5116 2494 1172 2945 2480
2609 5280 6390 0589 3981 1444 7076 2456 6586 3810
607 BI X BI
6300 2507 589 0644 0589 3152 2480 0594 7325 0966
1008 7035 2392 4099 248 2429 7193 132 2814 £523
7175 2455 2704 2354 0645 1170 6024 0810 0037 4737
4377 1571 2456 0360 2588 9906 0961 6007 630 4687
588 1353 PARA
s
NR 039 CK 178 1684 1558 9907 0681 4145 7193 2354 6850
2
1987 1684 3330 3254 2455 0355 0966 5261 0003 2588
3
4
2634 0110 0171 6807 3583 8008 1030 6850 1987 1579
5
6
0022 3583 2426 1451 7555 3024 3024 4105 2508 0628
7
8
3692 2992 1971 0642 2354 2673 1120 4694 6068 5074
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATI ND: 

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
ANALYETI
GMT
2456 9906 1032 0707 6182 685k 1987 093 1115 0037
€807 3583 2589 1172 008 735 966 3739 6647 248
306 1653 1*71 6389 6665 4162 1653 6115 966 2475
1450 037 6639 7364 68€ 271 479 0613 2944 163
0011 0271 2589 7193 282 5:74 3928 1421 2399 1429
3634 1899 BI × BI
0086 7173 2514 6615 1131 45xx x1 637 7193 0342
2
7026 7026 1141 1129 7183 ×036 2598 2x8 5767 ×109
2086 3234 3634 1136 239E k1 53x1 7181 304€ 2971
2456 6424 0266 5593 1758 571 3089 389 2495 4204
1354 1172 2984 86 366 £22 2814 1571 2426 0730
5074 3634 2422 1429 1122 2589 2514 3578 3634 2984
5074 3578 3634 3932 5074 4544 7181 433 €587 366
1245
3692 1395 1971 008 1804 4212 0061 PARA
NR 40 CK 210
s
1
2639 0079 5713 0681 4145 7193 0603 1653 3747 4539
2
3
6663 0520 5261 2456 5110 7160 3927 0966 2172 1418
4
0007 7559 0729 1696 6080 (0603 1653 0086 0037 0603
5
6
1653) 5079 3015 3544 6474 6386 0110 0171 6597 0093
7
6
9
1571 3341 0001 1628 3807 0003 1653 0948 3046 6511
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 170764 

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREOKC
FREO KC
FRFOKC
NハI
FREOKC
FADE
RST
WIA
IGNAL DESCRIPTION
Mへ
GRIFFIN
1571 0961 3068 3676 2139 7637 2448 37 4827 3764
x067 4809 2052 3294 0271 7630 1193 5887 0524 2480
2609 0948 3046 6663 0520 957 7555 4158 4212 0603
1653 34€ 4191 1172 2974 7592 3t 3 3x82 1353 4499
0528 8481 1129 2260 £5x4 66€3 x52x 248k BT × BI
1129 2398 5065 (33 2585 245 5713 3076 0664 73
3294 0271 2585 382 1353 5114 78 5281 68 492
2609 6752 0060 0163 87 582 21 2514 x584 8250
1129 2639 0068 2585 529 664 73 2266 54 603
1653 3747 4539 948 340 C03 52 957 7555 1
5903 1129 2585 5113 1447 2514 427 1598 5×74 2589
0677 0948 3046 6663 0520 957 7555 0108 5903 4883
0005 4102 7411 086 0642 6115 2585 7315 1353 0093
1775 1412 0448 3938 001 434 2894 2585 0433 8961
0356 0948 0677 0966 1455 7030 2974 4467 6663 0520
s
BI  B
3
2
0110 2266 0504 0603 1653 3747 4539 6668 0520 PARA
3
4
NR 041 CK 138 2672 2651 9907 0681 4145 7193 1795
5
6
0948 0677 1032 9907 2600 436 0971 2456 1469 7240
7
8
0436 6528 0109 0086 3137 4158 0037 3564 4161 0059
9
10
1608 0366 0031 3634 1585 3676 0519 4920 4827 5280
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOE - MIARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND. 1R

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREO KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
ANALYBT.
GMT
1795 1120 7022 6849 6333 3676 3157 3940 2524 6151
2514 37 2378 1758 8659 81 3634 1795 3189 6511
1441 6327 1129 1412
2584 7559 0674 0109 1351 4535
722961 1795 492
5280 2047 2651 450E 6511 €752
4827 1129 2609 3602 5282 587 588 6231 2514 037
2378 1758 7078 2456 2974 2945 2585 151 8355 1369
7173 3032 3541 BI X BI
4099 5903 0141 5883 6126 3981 2974 2069 1444 6567
2203 7132 308 1795 946 6511 2398 7445 7325 1353
1801 110 1585 3676 0519 492 4827 3634 0022 18
5079 0155 685 6008 0588 6231 601 PARA
NR 042 CK 53 0122 2448 0982 150 1422 5713 0681 4145
7193 0960 1120 7022 5019 1143 724 0587 2706 7627
2582 0060 7625 2516 6181 968 492 4827 122 6179
4781 0057 1775 0613 4141 8278 £968 0948 3046 6231
S
2585 1412 0648 3194 0128 0250 0664 7030 4868 1838
1
?
2585 6231 0037 6141 PARA
3
4
NR 43 CK 137
5
6
1684 1558 5713 0681 4145 7193 1684 1558 4840 7231
7
8
0031 0117 0361 5002 6511 1083 5710 3634 0729 2019
9
10
2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
CA1I
FREQ KC
REQKC
FRELK
FRFOKC
FADE
RST
W…
IGNAI
OFSCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GM
4727 4164 4842 3444 005 1628 1696 608 6868 0487
0466 2973 2456 0677 966 448 2817 2236 5887 651*
083 1562 0155 3807 3482 1353 2456 4433 7465 2669
4164 0677 0966 x037 948 165 6511 713 k22 2176
6693 01 6752 1182 0365 4882 354 511 1083 713
001 0434 3294 0271 2814 1571 6586 4546 0613 0668
6102 6175 1395 2457 2974 2945 6511 183 7136 037
2395 4882 2482 961 1073 0502 269 2514 4752
7380
BI X I
3932 3934 2681 4315 439 C511 4752 x37 5261 4822
5261 6398 2399 76 8668 4408 k37 3634 1470 3944
0365 3807 0677 2455 1417 2974 (511 1483 713€ 0037
1305
3172 £52 971 2817 3137 4158 PARA
NR 044 CK 79
0006 3189 9907 681 4145 7193 022 948 0948 3046
S
2398 1650 4752 7380 6752 8467 2582 4099 5887 0063
1
2
3
0310 0337 4752 7380 1655 457 3938 0155 2392 6356
4
5
4752 7380 0644 4842 3602 4717 0221 4842 6316 3807
6
2964 6035 2480 2455 6892 5887 0957 7003 2456 2974
7
8
5282 2589 7070 3046 7380 0795 7344 3810 2019 0588
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT_
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYOT:
GMT
050k 2399 3082 1353 6356 651 2974 2945 4752 7380
1655 0457 0063 578 263 412 552 337 PARA
NR 45 CK 115
2039 079 9907 0681 4145 7193 248 1129 269 362
7124 6511 1032 6670 6752 7422 (253 5498 1421 1412
2456 9967 0607 0582 8163 2514 961 4377 2073 1579
4539 4574 0001 7559 4583 1160 1331 2699 011 (1129
2639 0668 2069 3630 237 184 2786 5288 499 1455)
3634 7344 4099 5903 3348 6199 5417 6922 306 1129
1942 1172 2945 1129 2639 068 2069 3630 3634 2480
2609 134€ 6659 4106 948 0278 4827 169 73 37
6670 5030 2069 3630 5417 1432 1129 2639 0*8 437
7089 5898 2069 0644 1696 6084 2069 037 BI × BI
1840 2706 5280 0366 4099 1455 3970 6615 2076 6015
(2607 1346) PARA AR
( )
S
1
1315
NM TU DE JEG VA
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1781764

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
EIGHT
FILE
3
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
ALIFORIA
WORKS:
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT:
GMT:
CQ DE JZG
PRESS VE PRESS DE JZG HR NW BC AT 223 AUG
7TH BT
DOMEI 72 CEBU 7/8 LML DO EI 72 CEBU 7/8 ISLANDERS WELCO ED
NEW BUS SERVICE EXTENDING CVE: "EWLY REOPENED HIGHWAY CON.
NECTING CEBU CITY CUMTOLEDO O WESTE  COAST ISLAND
R
ETTOLEDO WITH ASTURIAS APPROXIATELY THIRTY KILOETES ORTH
TOLEDO STOP
(TAPE DID NOT PRINT)
EXPECTED REOPEN TO TFARFIC BY END SMONTH PARA
73
11
**
MANILA 7/8 LEARNED ANTIANGLO-
AMERICAN MASS RALLY PLANNED 8/8 9/8 LL 8/8 9/8 BY LOCAL
INDIANS CONJUNCTION INDIANS THROUGHOUT GREATER EASTASIA
WILL POSTPONED UNTIL 15/8 ML 15/8 UPON RECEIPT INSTRUCTIONS
EXHEADQUARTERS INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE SHONANWISE PARA
74 SA1GON 7/8 LML 74 SAIGON 7/8
S
REVEALED IN JOINT COMMUNIQUE ISSUED TODAY AGREEMENT CON-
1
2
CERNING HANDLING NIPPON KATAKANA IML KATAKANA SYLLABARY
3
4
TELEGRAMS BETWEEN SAIGON AND JAPANESE OCCUPIED AREAS SOUTHERN
5
6
REGIONS SIGNED YESTERDAY BETWEEN JAPANESE CONSUL GENERAL
7
A
ROKURO SOZUKI LML ROKURO SUZUKI REPRESENTING NIPPON AND
9
10
COMMANDER SAINT GEORGES RPT SAINT GEORGES TWO OTHERS
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
E
FREQ KC
IFORNIA
PREOKC
NAT
FRFO KC
rr
FREO KC
FADE
RST
w
DFSCRIPTION
M.SHCREY
GM
REPRESENTING GOVTGENERAL FRENCH INDOCHIA STOP JOIT COUN-
IUE DISCLOSED AGREEMENT RELATING TO HANDLI C KATAKANA
SYLLABARY TELEGRANS BETYEEN SAIGO SHCNA OTHER PCINTS
JAPANESE DCCUPIED AREAS SOUTHIN REGIONS SIGNED 6/E L
6/8 BY REPRESE TATIVES JAFANLSE GCVEIMENT AND COVT-
P
GENERAL FIC IN FRIENDLY SFIRIT STOP UNDERSTOOD PRESENT
AGREEMENT CONCLUDED  FRO STANDPOINT SI PLYFYIG
BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS BY JAPANLSE FIC AND SOUTHLRN RLGIONS
STOP HOWEVER VIEW FA T THERES TECHNICAL PROBLE ON SIDE
FIC IN SENDING RECEIVING KATAKANA TELEGRAMS ENFORCEMENT
AGREEMENT WILL DEFERRED UNTIL ABOUT 2/8 IML 2/8 STOP
MEANWHILE ROMANIZED JAPANESE TELEGRAMS MAY USED PARA
N
75 KOBE 7/8 1ML 75 KOBE 7/8 MAJORGENERAL MAKAD YAHAGI
RPT NAKAO YAHAGI SPOKESMAN ARMY PRESS SECTICI IMPERIAL
HEADQUARTERS DECLARED IN ADDRESS HERE SAFTERNDON JAPANESE
s
1
FORCES PRESENTLY PREPARING FOR SWEEPIG OFFENSIVE OPERA-
2
3
TIOS STOP BEFORE THOUSANDS KOBEITES YAHAGI SPOKE LENGTHILY
4
5
ON QUOTE CHARACTER GREATER EASTASIA WAR ETITS DEVELOPMENT
8
7
UNQUOTE STOP STRESSED NIPPONS EFFORTS AT CONSTRUCTION IN
8
H
SOUTHERN AREAS EXBOTS POLITICAL ETECONOMIC PDINTSVIEW
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO INIT:
PATNO

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.96)
TEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
.43
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
NA
FREOK
FREQ KC
.MT
FADI
RST
WPM
IMN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
CMI
PROGRESSING MOST SATISFACTCPILY STOP REVIEIG CHARACTER
DEVELOPMENT WAR YAHACI AS ERTED WAR GREATE EASTASIA BENG
FOUGHT DEFEND EASTASIA AGAINST I VASICN PARUNICTATES
135
GREATBRITAIN STOP ADDED SIMULTJEDUSLY ITS VAR DF CONSTRUCTION
CUTPOI TE THAT PRESE T "AR I CUE DEFEND EASTASIA IS
MOREN ELOCU TLY REFLLCTED I JAPANESE ATRICAN NECOTIATICS
PRICR CUTBIEAK HOSTILITIES STCP UOTIG LATE FOUNDER SINO-
REPUBLIC YAHAGI DECLARED CUCTE LATE DOCTOR SUN YATSEN DURING
HIS LIFLTI E DECLARED SUB UOTE WITHOUT NIPPON THERE CAN BE
NO RPT NO EASTASIA UNSUBQUCTE UCUOTE STOP DECLARED UNISTATES
ETBRITAIN HARBORED DESIGNS CCUQUER EASTASIA PARDESTRCYIG
NIPPON WHICH STABILIZIG FORCE ETAIN PILLAR DEFENSE EASTASIA
STOP YAHAGI DUTPOINTED THIS IMPERIALISTIC AMBITION ON PART
UNISTATES BRITAIN BECAME EVIDENT IMMEDIATELY AFTER RUSSD-
( )
JAPANESE WAR STOP ADDED AS NIPPONS INTERNATI NAL POSITION
s
1
BECAME STRONGER POSTFIRST WORLDWAR ANGLOSAXON POWERS BEGAN
2
3
BRING PRESSURE AGAINST NIPPON ETTHIS TENDONCY INTENSIFIED
4
5
POSTMANCHURIAN INCIDENT 1931 LML 1931 AND FURTHER FOLLOWING
6
7
OUTBREAK CHINAAFFAIR 1937 LML 1937 STDP ADDED ANGLOUNISTATES
8
9
FINALLY POSTENTICING OTHER COUNTRIES INTO THEIR CAMP THREW
101400
RING ENCIRCLEMENT AROUND NIPPON STOP OUTPOINTED TWO POWERS
2
PAT. NO 17
TO UNIT:

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.97)
ELEVEN
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
ALIFOR-IA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
EY:
MSHCREY
ANALYET
GMI:
ESPECIALLY UNISTATES STRENGTHENED FORTMFICATIC'S I APEAS
MEAREST TC NIPPON TOCE CEI TE FRI'C CU JAPANS
LEGITIMATE ETPEACLFUL TRADE STOP SAI FT CONTT CUTH SE
MEASURIS ANGLOUISTATE SEVERE ECONOICELATI
NIPPDN AN ACT GREATLY
LVACIC EXITENCE IPPON ETTANTANDUNT
DECLARATION WAR ANTINIPPON STOP SAID QUDTI I SUCH MANNER
ALL OUR EFFORTS SETTLE ATTERS AMICABLY THROUGH PEACEFUL
NEGOTIATIONS THWARTED ETWE ULTIMATELY FORCED RISE IN ARMS
FOR SELFDEFENSE UNQUOTE STOP YAHAGI REVEALED AME-ICAN
OFFICERS WHD PRISONERED PARNIPPON FORCES UNINFORMED THESE
U
CIRCUMSTANCES ETWERE TAGHT NIPPO: ATTACKED PEARLHARBOR
SANSPROVOCATION STOP YAHAGI ASSERTED THESE AMERICANS
UPON LEARNING TRUE FACTS UNANIMOUS DENOUNCING WARPROVOKING
D
POLICIES ROOSEVELT PRESENT AMERICAN GOVE NMENT LEAERS STOP
ASSERTED AMERICA PEOPLE DONT KNOW THIS IS DEFENSIVE WAR
s
1
PRONIPPON ETROOSEVELT ADMINISTRATION CERTAINLY UNENLIGHTENED
2
3
AMERICAN PEDPLE CUMTRUTH STOP REVIEWING PRESENT WARSITUATION
4
E
5
YAHAGI DECLARED QUDTE PRESINTLY OUR ENEMIES ENCIRCLING US
6
7
EXAFAR ETCAREFULLY WATCHING PROOPPORTUNITY HIT NIPPONS
8
9
MAINLAND UNQUDTE STOP ADDED REQUOTE SOUTHERN PACIFICWISE
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17784 

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
ELVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
LEORNLA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
Tπ
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
OY:
M. SHOREY
INDEXFD BY
ANALYST
GMI
ENEMY REPEATING COUNTER OFFE SIVE AFTER COUNTER OFFE SIVE
IN DEFIANCE ENORMOUS LOSSES STOP THEY OREOVE AKING
FREPARATIONS ATTACK OUR HOMELAND USING SINOCONTINENT
ETALEUTIANS FOR BASES STOP OR HAS EVENY ABANDONED ITS
1815
PLAN RLCAPTURE BURMA STOP CUR PRESENT ATTITUDE AY LIKEED
TO LAULL BEFORE APPROACHI TORM STOP KEEPING QUIT IN
PREPARATIC: BIG OFFENSIVE STOP CUMSTRATEGIC POSITIONS
WHICH WE FIRMLY ESTABLISHED IN OCCUPIED SOUTHERN REGIONS
ETCUMADVANTAGE INNER OPERATINLINES WE CRUSHING ENEMY
COUNTER OFFENSIVES HERE THERE EVERYWHERE UNQUOTE (APPROXIMATELY
OO3O NEWSCAST) PARA
600 ML 60 MORE COMING 30 L
76 BERLIN 7/8 LML 76 BERLIN 7/8
LEARNED IMPORTANT MILITARY CONFERENCES PLACETOOK FUEHRERS
HEADQUARTERS IN RECENT DAYS WITH MOST OF HIGHEST GERMAN
ARMY NAVY COMMANDERS WELLS HIGH GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS ATTENDING
s
H
1
STOP FIELD MARSHAL WILSELM KEITEL COMMANDERCHIEF GERMAN
2
3
DEFENSE FORCES FRAND ADMIRAL DOENITZ AIRFORCE FIELD MARSHAL
4
5
GENERAL MILCH AND COLONEL GENERAL JESCHONEK REPRESENTED
6.
7
MILITARY COMMAND STOP MEMBERS GERMAN CABINET INCLUDED REICH
a
FORNMINISTER JOACHIM VON RIBBENTROP HERMANN GOERING REICH
10.
AIR MINISTER SS HEINRICH HIMMLER REICH FUEHRER AND DOCTOR
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178764

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.95)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FORNIA
FREQ KC
CAII
WOIRKS
REQ KC
FREO KI
NAT
TT
FRFOKr
FADF
RST
WIA
DESCRIPTION
IMN
M. SHOREY
GMI
JOSEPH GOEBBELS RLICH MINISTER PROPA ANDA ALBERT SPEER
MINISTER WAR PRODUCTION OTHERS STOP IN ADDITION INFANTRY
GENERAL ZEITZLER CHIEF GENERAL STAFF OF ARMY AND ARTILLERY
GENERAL JODL CHIEF STAFF OF DEFI SE FORCES PARFICIPATED
END BT
1425
FURUNC DOMEI AR
NM TU DE JZG VA
2
1432
CQ DE JZG VE
PRESS DE JZG IR NW BC AT 33O AUG 7TH ST
NRD46 CK591
4958 4574 0934 577 63 5714
4574 801
2076 6182 789 5898 2869 2974 6034 1129 2639 068
2069 0467 2480 5019 6651 5887 074 3195 0837 4842
3
6665 0617 3634 2584 2484 4101 5903 3807 0022 8948
0948 3637 1327 0022 1472 0341 3932 2582 6182
( )
3541 2480 2609 0613 3 41 2639 0068
0141 5391
s
1
5019 4544 0120 0956 1090 0455 2480 2609 110 6642
2
3
0366 0455 6011 2639 0068 0037 6851 1800 1764 4583
4
5
2974 4467 6851 1800 1193 2456 2480 0192 2069 1775
6
7
5267 4574 001 2945 0013 3954 1129 2069 1775 0613
8
9
BI X BI
10
2877
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 1
I

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.96)
TEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
GALIFORNIA
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT_
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
M. SHOREY
NALYET
GMI
2577 7216 7539 654C 81 3657 639 1776 364
7319 6395 3423 05 3 0644 5267 22 2480 057 6239
6
2577 0361 3544 226 5592 0504 7022 2639 0068 4393
0052 0011 6131 1714 5288 948 4814 2652 2076
6182
1417 248 3545 0953 7109 5117 4642 3444 4815 0074
0502 1730 1218 5178 2480 2609 0037 3932 1317 1637
4842 0735 1627 2124 5897 4807 707 3541 240 248
2609 3634 5261 1317 5261 5898 0035 1164 2544 579
6386 0110 3807 0961 1906 0528 5079 6034 2426 2973
0956 0545 0953 248 2.9 .136 7138 2231 0640 1129
BI X BI
6016 2875 5379 2589 4827 455 37 0511 2.57 5887
0520 0110 1695 2580 2609 2689 966 248 2609 1417
2974 0668 6182 2973 2456 7234 4104 26≈1 735 2022
5
1445
3294 271 2945 2621 2637 1129 646 2396 366 294
1
1432 1696 6080 2069 37 184. 27.6 5.79 6056 2480
2
5
3
2609 1696 6080 2450 2639 0068 0037 2704 2609 183
4
5
1927 2482 0961 2704 2354 0360 4785 0001 1342 0037
6
7
1129 3810 1927 0613 0169 5502 6721 0677 1779 0366
8
9
2076 0340 3046 0677 1344 0366 2814 2974 4467 1129
10
3810 1927 0466 2973 0961 1129 2639 0068 4192 4192
BIXBI
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY . INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17784

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
43
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
CALIFORNIA
FREO KC
A11
NAT
FREO KC
rT
FREQ KC
C.MT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NGNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
G~
1395 3807 0173 1172 258 2455 7337 5920 1398 1695
3046 2469 0971 1571 6120 6221 2974 2945 269 3630
C
3
0037 1942 5020 5079 3583 3525 588 0500 2974 0813
1835 0927 1696 6080 6651 1455 37 2494 6816 3375
6034 4842 3444 1696 6087 463 2974 2945 269 363
7359 3634 3194 5088 2169 2869 0506 9837 7075 2450
1775 2455 4842 3444 3676 446 5280 3932 3934 0587
0037 7070 0190 5267 1129 711 1565 5079 3932 2934
2080
050E 4814 1444 2919 3034
BI X BI
(
3677
0037 4161 242 448 1172 5174 4920
0037 4161 4
528
367
£522 0080
4480 1172 5174 4926 520
BI X BI
3
( )
0765 2630 0068 0577 0310 3046 4191 0724 6852 0448
S
3938 2639 0068 2876 2589 6327 3293 0463 0366 4530
2
3
6852 2817 3634 0251 1129 0022 5478 3046 0948 3341
3166 0948 3141 0948 4884 3949 0948 4583 0971 6298
7
2589 1775 2455 0365 4541 1015 0966 0037 0117 0523
0589 2455 0677 0966 6327 3293 0466 2973 7311 6148
10
2030 4099 0110 ****0730 2069 0500 2974 4467 3692
2
PAT: NO. 17
TO UNIT:

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.97)
NXTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
CALL
FREQ KC
ALLFORNIA
WORKS.
OBS
FREQKC
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN.
INDICATORS:
M.SHOREY
INDEXI D BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
0400 2817 0668 1987 1630 5:07 2456 2398 3112 1690
6080 2577 2589 7378 6468 4099 1455 613 022 5478
3046 0948 1571 2456 2619 1628 0051 2588 163 5639
BI X BI
269 360 2588 2639 2392 932
J2C6 3189 4436 3954
0681 2514 0022 2948 1571 5192 ≈686 2945 2994 3246
0966 0037 0966 0143 0642 4883 3949 1571 1216 1216
3747 4539 0011 1417 5391 5319 1580 3767 1357 269
0603 1653 4780 6307 0868 346 2469 1571 6079 0366
1500
0639 5280 2398 3112 222 248 2742 4766 3613 1412
2704 2354 6670 5030 4737 4377 2456 2584 6602 2395
6057 5481 1497 5062 2598 0037 3747 4539 0076
668
2456 2609 1628 0355 1395 3807
2607 1346
PARA
NR047 CK450
 4958 4574 0934 0577 0362 5714
5391 5319
3
0936 0649 2480 2609 8074 6703 0961 5478 4436 3954
0644 2327 168: 3112 1120 3127 2938 0037 1758 7302
0035 0008 1779 0008 0961 1748 1709 0006 1412 0366
2814 1571 0828 1136 0037 4436 3954 0155 3032 3541
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS  PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 177A

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.94)
ITEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
ILE
12718
FREQ KC
WOUKS
CALL
ALIFORNIA
FREO KC
NAT
FREO KC
FREO KC
C.MT
FADE
RST
IMN
AL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
1942 5038 0022 414  747.3 3254 559217 6039
3
4249 2327 1687 3112 112 3127 2938 2964 4467 057
1395 6398 0118 6286 2494 5391 5.19 1571 1448 2591
0060 2053 2480 2609 1395 3508 5286 607 530 937
0467 3544 2974 5282 8676 284 3634 174 4583 2938
BI X BI
1355 0037 2238 2238 4999 76 2013 458 7333 2388
4384 5079 1571 2639 0:68 3787 3001 651 1778 537
3254 2455 0093 1775 1417 3981 3467 057 1966 5387
3
0502 0223 2494 4229 0467 0360 528 228 1353 1861
0793 2480 9022 2948 7245 373
1937 6395 3234 346
8 1627
0037 0251 1129 0057 2814 613 648 3195 00
2
4583 2742 4766 5887 1417 1346 2052 2974 319≈ 3≈76
0031 1598 7325 1418 037 2948 3046 2398 165 2076
s
1346 2052 5074 5592 2.94 4258 7325 1418 0037 3254
2
2455 1395 0008 5174 1779 2974 4135 0110 0948 3046
3
2398
BI X BI
1650 1571 1417 2053 2480 2609 2236 6651 0062 0504
9
10
2415 4207 0037 4842 3444 0678 0155 0361 0681 7089
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178064

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.96)
ETGHTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CALIFCRNIA
WORKS:
OBS
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
SNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
M. SHOREY
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYOT:
GMT:
5898 3297 6639 2429 0553 4583 2398 4595 324 2455
0463 3927 1800 0110 0022 0948 2609 3960
0150 5391
5019 155 1417 2480 0155
2769
6037 2069
1634
234
5391 5019 0037 2976 892 1734 5522 169
1934 .31
7
681 5165 3177 5877 2943 3.57 3229 2639 668 3634
391 5219 0037 2994 3:46 7266 163 2639
2:68
3.4
2469 3057 3634 5391 519 37 1167 7153
2974 3634
2022 0948 248 346 2376 719 6126 3221 5374 1420
BI X BI
2019 3810 6243 1328 3634 113 1395 2456 2633 368
0017 3634 022 0948 037 1947 948 574 373≈ 211
1327 3022 1472 0341 393* **** *961 2974 7035 3348
6199 1129 0068 4798 0068 8831 5030 3807 4176 2973
4949 2110 1327 0341 3932 6695 2403 0037 022 7948
7245 0730 1775 6543 2654 3634 0149 0086 2974 3634
1
8
2
0022 0948 0948 3046 2076 2019 6030 18*9 6074 4146
3
4
2053 2480 2609 5261 0031 0037 4099 1455 2482 0961
5
6
1783 5391 5019 1090 1695 5280 2834 0648 0022 6043
7
8
2397 1129 2639 0068 0169 5502 6721 0677 1779 0366
9
10
B虹XBI
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178784

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
LE12718
CALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
7.
FREO KC
FREOKC
FADF
RST
W'M
IMN
AL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
2076 0110 6180 1129 2639 068 3637 0364 1317 364
2837 0366 0364 2681 1696 628 961 618 1129 2639
8068 0037 5281 7127 .76 1919 2589 1346 2052 2974
0357 574 1193 3634 6376 34.2 1129 2639 068 1309
 PAR
( 1346
3630037 4176 2973 1217 1956
R
1521
NM TU DE JZG VA
( )
s
1
2
3
4
8
9
10
PAT. NO. 1706
2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
REQ KC
NAT
FRFOK
FREOKC
FADE
RST
wrA
IMN
DESCRIPTION
117
GRIFFIN
GMI
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
PLACES FOR EXAMINATION I CLUDS LEGASPI ALBAY PROVINCE
******* 21/81M20/8
************D T****EGARAN CAGAYAN
PROVINCE 10/9 11/9 1M1 10/9 11/9 PARA
1530
2 ADD ITEM SEVENTYFIVE YAHAGIS SPEECH COLON TURNING*****
***TIVE ASPECTS CURRENT AR YAHAGI DECLARED QUOTE BASIC
IDE****** PONS CONSTRUCTION GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY
SPHERE MAY TRACED TO PRINCIPLE SUBQUOTE HAKKO IU RPT HAKKO
IU UNSUBQUOTE WHEREUNDER OMINANATIONS ETOMNIPEOPLES MAY EN-
JOY THEIR PROPER PLACES ETLIVE PROSPEROUSLY IN PEACE ET
SECURITY STOP THIS NOBLE IDEAL BEING STEADILY REALIZED IN
EASTASIA STOP FULLY UNDERSTANDING THIS GREAT IDEAL OPPRES-
OP-
SED NA****** *************OW FERVENT*********
ERATING CUMBS STOP EVEN ENEMY HAS CONFESSED DEFEAT BRITISH
CHUNGKING IML CHUNGKING FORCES BURMAWISE DUE TO COMPLETE
s
1542
LACK COOPERATION PARNATIVE PEOPLE STOP IN PHILIPPINES MORE-
2
3
N SEVENTHOUSAND SMALL ISLANDS FORMING ARCHIPELAGO WOULD
SERVE EXCELLENT ASYLUMS PROENEMY REFUGEES ETBANDITS HOW-
READYNCU***IPNOS WHO
EVER
TA (UNREADABLE)
10
2
PAT ND 1

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
VENTY-ONE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ'KC
FREQ KC
NAT.
TT_
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYET:
GMT.
ENEMY IRREGULARS WHOVE SECRETLY LANDED ON SNALL ISLANDS***
***********ERN PACIFIC ALL BEING CAUGHT KILLED PARLOCAL
INHABITANTS STOP CONTRA******SE JAPANESE OFFICERS MEN TRA-
N
VEL THROUGHOUT DJAWAMALAI ETIRELY UNARMED ETWITH********
******LING DANGER OR RISK STOP NATIVES EVEN SALUTE NILE
ETEALL OUT IN NIPPONGO TO OUR MEN WHEN THEY PASS ON STREET
(UNREADABLE)
CONSTRUCTION PRESENTLY ONGOING THROUGHOUT GREATER EASTASIA
YAHAGI SAID PRESENT WAR CHARACTERIZED PARTGEMENDOUS CONSU-
MPTION WARMATERIALS STOP THEREFORE HE ALDED SUCCESSFUL
PROSECUTION WAR GREAT ****NDEPENDS NATIONS ECONOMIC FRONT
PARTICULARLY ITS PRODUCTION POWER STOP ***OINIING SUCH
PRODUCTION POWER CONSISTS MATERIAL
**水水*********水****
AHAGI DECLARED EASTASIA CUMITS ******ATION ONEBILLION ET-
( )
VAST RESOURCES MAY TRULY CALLED GIGANTIC INEXHAUSTIBLE RE-
s
1
SERVOIR FIGHTING POWER STOP ADDED MANCHOUKUO CHINA THAI-
2
3
LAND BURMA ALL DISCHARGING THEIR DUTIES *PLY BASES
4
5
WHILE THERE REASSURINGEST PROOFS MATERIAL RESOURCES THOROUGH-
6
7
OUT SOUTHERN REGIONS BEING TURNED INTO FIGHTING POWER STOP
8
9
YAHAGI SAID CONSTRUCTION **RK IN POLITICAL FIELD ALSO REM-
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178794

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.96)
ENTY-TWO
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS
SPACE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
LE
CALI
FREQ KC
WORKS
FREO KC
FREOKI
FRFO KC
FADE
RST
Wi M
.MT
NAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GM
ARKABLEST STOP OUTPOINTEI CHINA DECLARED WAR AGAINST ANGLO-
UNISTATES 9/1 IMI 9/1 ETIN LITTLE NOREN SIXMONTHS OFFSH-
OOK SEMICOLONIAL
******TUS
**************Y NTERNA****
***********1/8 MI 1/8 STOP ALDED BURMA FOUND FREEDON ET-
SIMULTANEOUSLY DECLARED WAR AGAINST ANGLOAMERICA WHILE IN-
DONESIANS IN FORMER DUTCH ********IONS ALLOWED PARTICIPATE
ADMINISTRATIVE WORK ETANOTHER COUNTRY DASH PHILIPPINES
UNDASH BECOMING FREE NEAREST FUTURE STOP YA**********OIN-
TED TREMENDOUS TASK ABOLISHING UNEQUAL TREATIES DASH GREAT
AI CHINESE REVOLUTION UNDASH WITHIN ACE COMPLETION STOP
ADDED QUOTE CREDIT FOR THIS SHOULI GO TO PRESIDENT WANG
E
CHINGWWI WHO PURSUING POLICY NUTUAL AIL FREIENDSHIP ****
N
COOPERATION CUMNIPPON STOP ETTIRE SINOPEOPLE NOW GRADUALLY
OUTFINDING ABOLITION EXTRATERRITORIALITY CHINAWISE ETABO-
LITION UNEQUAL TREATIES BEING REALIZED NOT BY CHUNGKING
s
1
ML CHUNGKING REGIME BUT BY NATIONAL GOVERNMENT CHINA UN-
2
3
QUOTE STOP SAID TIS CLEAR TO SINOPEOPLE WHETHE** CHUNG-
5
KING OR NANKING THAT REALLY PATRIOTIC TO CHINA ETLOYAL TO
6
EASTASIA STOP OUTPOINTING LATE DOCTOR DUN HAD OCCASION
DELIVER SPEECH IN KOBE ON PANASIANSSM YAHAGI DECLARED SINO-
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 1

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
NTY-THREE
FILE
43
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
FREO KC
OBS
NAT
FREOKI
IT
FRFOKC
C.MT
FADE
RST
WPM
IくN
GNAL DFSCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
PEOPLE SHOULD WISE ENOUGH KNOW WHO IS REAL INHERITOR
EXECUTOR GREAT PRINCIPLES ENUNCIATED PARSUN YATSEN STOP
DECLARED NIPPON QUOTE NOW FIGHTING FOR PURPOSE LIBERATING
OMNINATIONS ETRACES WITHIN EASTASIA EXANGLOAMERICAN EX-
PLOITATION ATTO ENABLE OMNINATIONS ENJOY THEIR PROPER PL-
ACES IN SUN ETLIVE IN PEACE ETSECURITY TO USHUR IN ERA
COEXISTENCE ETCOPROSPERITY STOP OUTPOINTEL THIS EFFORT TO
CONSTRUCT SPHERE OF SOLIDALITY IN EASTASIA IN LI* CUMMO-
VEMENT PROCONSTRUCTION NEW EUROPEAN ORDER LED PARGERMANY
0
WILL IN TURN LEAD TO CONSTRUCTION NEW WORLI PRDER STOP
LECLARED VERY BASIC AIM PRESENT WAR WHEN VIEWED POLITICAL-
LY US UNBUILD NEW ORDER IN CONFORMITY CUMAUIRENENTS WORLD
PROGRESS ** RUINS OLD PRINCIPLES UPDRAWN WASHINGTON VERSA-
ILLES STOP SAID QUOTE THIS WAR ABOUTBROUGHT AS DEATH STRU-
GGLE BETWEEN NIPPON ETGERMANY ON ONE SIDE ETUNISTATES ET-
s
1
BRITAIN ON OTHER CUMFORMER AIMING AT CONSTRUCTION NEWORDER
2
ETLATTER CLINGING TO OLD ORDER STOP CONC**UDING DECLARED
QUOTE HIGH IDEAL HAKKO IU WHICH GONE THROUGH MANY ACID
TESTS SINCE FOUNDATION JAPANESE EMPIRE CAN BEAR FRUIT ONLY
A
THROUGH OUR ULTIMATE VICTORY IN WAR GREATER EASTASI STOP
10
RISE OR FALL OUR NATION DEPENDS ON THIS WAR UNQUOTE PARA
2
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.96)
FOUR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREO KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
3 MANILA 7/8 1M1 03 MANILA 7/8 DRIVING SPIRITUAL FORCES
BEHIND OUR **** PEOPLES IRON **** TO WIN WAR GREATER
EASTASIA WA STRESSED BY **************************
INDUSTRY AND HI************ DIHECTOR PLANTS INDUSTRY IN
SPEECHES BEFORE OVERFLOWING CROWD METROPOLITAN THEATRE
YESTERAFTERNOON STOP ***ICASION WAS FIRST *** ********
********(UADABLE
(END INTE CEPT)
s
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788706

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.91)
ADDRESS ALL GOMMUNIGATIGNS
TO THE SECRETARY
CE FLY. CHAIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
KER
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
.CASE
XASNHON X XX XC.
HENRY PAYNE
M.CRAVEN
Auput 12, 1943
MAY C. WAKEFIELD
C. J. DURR
VIA SPECIAL MESSENCER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Vonorable Adel! A. erle, Jr.
Assistant Socretory of Stute
Department or State
Yas irgton,..
y dear Ar. Ferlo:
Attached herowith ure additi ol copies of Domei
894.76/146
Press interco tod from upanese static:s.
894.76
ry truly : curs,
Auuerman
S. I. orman, Acti Chier,
A:io utelligence Division
SEP 6-1943
FILED
Attachr nts
OF
20
PS
JON
DEPN
PORDEFENSE
HJ
erd
BUY
e
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
MID RAMPS

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
CALIF.
590
FREC KC
FRFO KC
13065
FRFOKC
NAI
FREO KC
2
577
20
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION
MN
GRIFFIN
CM1
(FIRST PART OF TRANSMISSION UNREADABLE, POOR SIGNAL)
50B STOP DECREE PROVIDES ALL DISPUTES AL ONG PEOPLE CF AOIS KACE
IN AREA SHALL TRIED SETTLED MACCORDANCE WITH COMMON LAW OF
RACE STOP JUDICIARY CONSISTS THREE COURTS NAMELY VILLAGE IIS-
TRICT PROVINCIAL STOP DISPUTES AMONG PEOPLE MOIS RACE FIRST
MEDIATED BY VILLAGE HEAD IN VILLAGE COURT ONBASEI COR ON LAWA
OF RACE STOP IF MEDIATION FAILS CASE ILL BROUGHT UP TO DIS-
TRICT COURT AND TO PROVINCIAL COURT IF IT AGAIN FAILS AT LIS-
TRICT COURT PARA
42 MANILA 5/8 IMI 
MANILA S/6 HILARION SILAYAN IIRECTOR PLANT
INDUSTRY DECLARED NIPPON HAS NO RPT NO LAUOR PROBLEM WHEN
HARVEST COMES DUE SPIRIT FRATERNITY EXISTING AMONG PEOPLE
STOP SILAYAN WHO MADE ABOVE DECLARATION AT INAUGURATION CER-
EMONIES THIRD INSTITUTE ON COOPERATIVES OF AGRICULTURE COM-
MERCE DEPARTMENT RECENTLY RETURNED FROM ********** *PON AS
s
1
MEMBER FIRST FILIPINO INSPECTION PARTY STOP SAID NEIGHBORLY
2
H
3
SPIRIT BEEN SO TOROUGHLY DEVELOPED THROUGHOUT JAPANESE EM-
PIRE THAT EVEN MOST DIFFICULT PROBLEMS EASILY ETPROMPTLY SO-
LVED STOP WHEN JAPANESE FARMER SILAYAN SAID UNABLE HARVEST
HIS CROP NEIGHBORSOOD ASSOCIATION GLADLY ETWILLING TAKE
10
CHARGE HARVESTING IT FOR HIM STOP WHEN EMEBERS OF ASSOCIATI

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
11
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXED FY
ANALYET
GMT
PLACED UNDER SAME PREDICAMENT PREFECTURE WHEREIN FARMER RESI-
DES TAKES CARE HARVESTING HIS CROP STOP AND IF PREFECTURE CAN-
NOT DO IT SIMPLE NOTICE TOKYOWARD SOLVES PRODLEM STOP VOLUN-
TEER WORKERS EXTOKYO IMMEDIATELY RESPOND ANL LESSN ONE DAY
CROP HARVESTED STOP CONTINUED THESE VOLUNTEERS EITHER WORKERS
OR EMPLOYEES OF INDUSTRIAL ESTA LISHMENTS OR COMNERCIAL FIRMS
WHO TAKING ADVANTAGE THEIR VACATION RENDEH GRATUITOUSLY THEIR
TO COMMUNITY STOP THESE VOLUNTARY WORKERS PLANT INDUSTRY
DIRECTOR SAID DO NOT KPT NOT RECEIVE ANY WAGE BRING OWN FOOD
ETPAY PROTHEIR OWN TRAVELING EXPENSES TO AND FROM FIELD STOP
OUTPOINTING REASON WHY NIPPON SELFSUFFICIENT AGRICULTURAL
FOODSTUFFS SILAYAN SAID INTENSIVE CULTIVATION OF LAND THROUGH
MEANS ROTATION SYSTEN ETDIVERSIFICATION PRODUCTS WELLS WEL-
LPLANNED IRRIGATION SYSTEMS WHICH CHARACTERISTIC JAPANESE
( )
AGRICULTURE RESPONSIBLE FOR SELFSUFFICIENCY AGRICULTURAL
5
1
PRODUCTS PARA
2
3
43 MEDAN 5/8 IMI MEDAN 5/8 SUMATRA SINBUN EKYNOTING SPIRIT
4
5
CHARACTERIZING MOTIVATING NEW SUMATRA ENCOURAGED SUMATRANS
6
7
TO CONTINUE WORK USING ALL CAPABILITIES THEY HAVE NOT WAIT-
8
ING WASTING TIME STOP JOURNAL DECLARED SUMATRA DOES NOT HAVE
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
ACTIONTAKEN
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
FREOK
AT
FRFOKr
FADE
RST
WPA
DESCRIPTION
N
GRIFFIN
CMI
AS MANY EDUCATED PEOPLE WITH GREAT CAPABILITIES AS IJAWA
BUT ADDED SUMATRANS MUST FULFILL DUTIES IN SPITE FEW EDUCATED
PEOPLE BECAUSE THEIR INCREASE CANNOT EXPECTED QUICKLY STOP
JOURNAL LIKENED LEADE KS EASTASIA TO MEMBERS ONE FAMILY WHOSE
EFFORTS DIRECTED TOWARD IMPROVING THAT FAMILY STOP SAID LEAD-
ERS NOT PERSONS WHO CAN WIN HIGHEST VOTES OR DEBATE FOR HOURS
R
AIMLESSLY BUT PEBSONS WHO RESPECTED FOR UPRIGHTNESS ABILITY
COOPERATE AND FOR SKILL UNITING ENERGIES OF PEOPLE STOP JOURN-
AL DECLARED AGE WESTERN DEMOCRACY *LET TOGETHER WITH AGE COL-
ONIZATION LEAVING INSTEAD EASTERN IDEALS BASED ON FANILYISM
STOP REFERRING POETERA MOVEMENT JOURNAL CALLED IT DRIVE TO
PREPARE STANDARD BEARERS OF HOME FRONT STOP SAID MOVEMENT
MOST SATISFACTORILY GUIDES CONCENTRATES PEOPLES CAPABILITIES
AT CRUCIAL MOMENT PARA
( )
44 HSINKING 6/8 MI HSINKING 6/8 PAIROT JAIYANAMA RPT PAIROT
s
JAIYANAMA DIRECTOR THAI GOVERNMENT PUBLICITY BUREAU AND HIS
1
2
PARTY PROCEEDED SMORNING TO IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD MINISTRY AND
3
REGISTERED THEIR NAMES STOP THEY LATER MADE COURTESY CALLS
5
6
ON LI SHAOKENG FOREIGN MINISTER GENERAL CHANG CHINGHUI PRIME
7
MINISTER AND ROKUZO TAKEBE DIRECTOR OF GENERAL AFFAIRS BOARD
10
OF STATE COUNCIL STOP DURING THEIR CALLS THEY DISCUSSED
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORI
PAT, NO.F

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
BNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
ANALYBT:
GMI
VARIOUS MATTERS WITH MANCHOUKUO OFFICIALS PARA
45 BUENOSAIRES CORRE*TION ITEN 25 IMI 25 SHOULE READ TWENTY
THOUSAND ORKERS INSTEAD TWOTHOUSANL AS SENT END BT
FURUNO LOLEI AR
0535 NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
CQ DE JUP/JUQ (LOTTER)
0601
PRESS DE JUP/JUP HR BC AT 15LI AUG 6TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1& HANOI C/8 VICEAMIRAL JEAN DECOUX GOUVER-
E
NEUR GENERAL INDOCHINE FRA CAISE APRAS AVOIR INSPECTED ETAT
BOMBARDEMENTS EFFECTUEDS PARFORCES AERIENNES AMERICAINES DANS
REGIONS REINTEGRA 5/8 IMI 5/8 PARA
5/8 DALAT PARA 11 HANO1 5/8 1M1 HANOI 5/8 1 ASAYUKI YOKOYAMA
IMI MASAYUKI YOKOYAMA CONSEILLER MISSION JAPONAISE EN INDO-
CHINE FRANCAISE ETCONCURREMENT PREMIER PRESIDENT INSTITUT
( )
CULTURE JAPONAISE ICI RETOURNA ICI JOURDHUI PARA
S
1
12 HSINKING 6/8 IM1 HSINKING 6/8 PAIROT JAIYANAMA CHEF BUR-
2
3
EAU PROPAGANDE THAILANDE ET HASUITE ARRIVA HSINKING HIERSOIR
4
5
OU FUT RECU CHALEUREUSEMENT PARFONCTIONNAIRES ETCIVIL NIPPO-
6
7
MANDCHOUS STOP PAIROT JAYANAMA CHEF BUREAU PROPAGANDE GOUVER-
8
9
NEMENT THAILANDAIS ET HASUITE CEMATIN SERENDIRENT CEMATIN
10
ADMINISTERE MAISON IMPERIALE MANDCHOUE POUR SINSPRIRE LEUR
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1A

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE
FREQKC
FREQKC
~.01
FREOK
FRFC KC
FADE
RST
WP'A
GNAL DESCRIPTION
EAN
GRIFFIN
GM1
NOM STOP ENSUITE CEGROUPE RENDIT VISITE COURTOISIE AD LIS-
HAOKENG MINIAFFETRANGERES GENEHAL CHANGCHINGHUI PRENIER MIN-
ISTRE ET ROKUZO TAKBE DIRECTEUR GENE AL BUREAU AFFAIRES
GENERALES CONSEIL ETAT PARA
S
13 MANILLE 6/8 IMI MANILLE C/8 JORGE VARGA8 CHEF COMNISSION
EXECUTIVE PHILIPPINES SADRESSANT HIER AL SESSION PREFETS
EX CENTRE PROVINCE LUZON DIT QUOTE DEVONS DEVELOPPER NOTRE
CULTURE CRIGINALE BASEE NOTRE LANGUE ET DEVONS NOUS LIBERER
SENTIMENT INFERIORITE ET RATTACHEMENT NATIONS OCCIDENTALES
STOP COMMISSAIRE EDUCATION SANTE PUBLIQUE DIT EGALEMENT EDU-
CATION AUX PHILIPPINES LOIT APPLIQUER IDEAL PRINCIPES POUR
LESQUELS LUTTE SPHERE COPROSPERITE ET PHILIPPINES QUI EN
T
FAIT PARTIE STOP DELEGUES VISITERED EXPOSITION ARTISANAN
C
CENTRE LUZON TRAVAUX INFANTS AD NAIRIE OU TROISMILLE OBJETS
ETAIENT EXPOSEDS STOP UN ELEVE ECOLE ELEMENTAIRE GAGNA PRIX
s
1
CHANSON JAPONAISE PARA
2
3
14 KALGAN 6/8 IMI KALGAN 6/8 ONAPPREND ICI JOURDHUI CORPS
5
POLICE PROVINCE TATUNG ARRETA RECEMMENT 368 IMI 368 BANDITS
7
COMMUNISTES CHINOIS DANS REGION CEREALES IRRIGUEE PARFLEUVE
8
9
SANGKIEN LEQUEL TRAVERSE FRONTIERES TATUNG HUNGUAN KWANGLING
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: ND: 

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
ALE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
ANALYBT.
GMT:
APPARTENAIENT ARMEE COMMUNISTE HUTIEME ROUTE ET TENTAIENT
REPANDRE COMMUNISME DANS ENGEHIANG PARA
15 TOKYO 5/8 IMI TOKYO 5/8 OCCASION INLEPENDANCE BIRMANIE
VIRG CHANGCHINGHUI PREMIER MANDCHOU JOURDHUI ENVOYA TELEG-
RAMME FELICITATIONS ADRESSED PREMIER GONERAL TOJO PREI IER
JAPON QUI TARDE PAS AD REPONIRE PREMIER NANICHOU STOP DANS
SON MESSAGE TELEGRAPHIQUE CHANG DIT NOTAMMENT CECI BISTOP
AVEC ACCOMPLISSEMENT INDEPE DANCE BIRNAIE GRACE AIDE NIP-
PONNE VIRG PEUPLE AANDCHOU FUT TOUCHED PROFONDEMET PARPR-
ISCIPES MORAUX JUSTICE VUTRE PAYS TANDISQUE PRENIER TOJO
REPONDIT PAR CSMOTS BISTOP OCCASION ACCOMPLISSEMENT INDEP-
ENDANCE BIRMANIE VIRG SUIS RECONNAISSANT VOTRE TELEGRAMME
FELICITATIONS STOP RENFORCEMENT FELATIONS CUMVOTRE PAYS ET-
A
UTRES PAYS ALLIEDS ASIATIQUES AUSSIBIENQUE NATIONS AMIES
EUROPENNES POURRA REALISER NOTRE BUT MUTUEL DETRUIRE NOS
ENNEMIS ETPREVOIT ETABLISSEMENT NOUVEL ORDRE JUSTICE PARA
2
3
16 KUIBISHEV 3/8 IMI KUIBISHEV 3/8 ONAPPREND GOUVERNEMENT
4
5
SOVIET INFORMA AMBASSADE JAPON DECISION POUR RETOURN CORPS
6
7
DIPLOMATIQUE AD MOSCOU STOP RAPPELLED LIEUTGENERAL QUOSH-
8
9
ITSUGU TATEKAWA ALORS AMBASSADEUR JAPON EVACUA MOSCOU
10
16/1/1941 IML 16/10/1941 AVEC CORPS DIPLOMATIQUE STOP AM-
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1774

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
度718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
FREOKC
FRFO K
FADE
RST
WPA
AL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
BA
AMSSADEUR NAOTAKE SATO PREND NESURES TRANSPORTER ALUASSADE
JAPON EX KUIBISHEV AD MOSCOU PARA
17 DASE JAPONAISE 5/8 RAPPORTS EIANANT KISKA REVELENT DEUX
ESCADRES AMERICAINES ENGAGERENT COMBAT ENTRE ELLES PAR CRR-
EUR CHACUNE PRENANT LAUTRE POUF ENNEMI PARSUITE EPAIS BROU-
ILLARD STOP RESULTAT ETENGAGEMET DENEURE INCOUNU JUSQUICE
PARA 18 SHANGHAI 5/8 UNE DESPRENIERES NESURES ADOPTEES PAR
SHANGHAI ADSUITE RECE TE HETROCESSION SERA CONTROLE PRIX
EFFECTUED PAR GOUVERNENENT ATIONAL CHINE ET QUI DEMEURE
PROBLEME
IMPORTANT CTVILLE STOP DECISION CONCERNANT PRIX
COMMOSITES ESSENTIELLE VIRG PROHIBITION HAUSSE PRIX VIRG
STOCKAGE ET PRETS FONDS DESTINEDS SPECULATION NONT PU ETRE
ENCORE RESOLUS FACON SATISFAISANTE AD SHANGHAI STOP ENCONCE-
QUENCE SEULE MESURE ADPRENDRE DEMEURE ACHAT RATIONNEL ET DIS-
TRIBUTION RAISONNEE COMMODITES ESSE TIELLES STOP HEUREUSE-
s
1
MENT CONDITIONS NECESSAIRES ADPOTION PAREIFLE MESURE FONDA-
2
3
MENTALE EXISTENT DEJA AVEC AJUSTEMENT COMMENCED PAR ASSCCI-
ATION CONTROL COMMERCE NATIONAL FIN BT
7
FURUNO DOMEI AR
NM TU DE HTUP/JUQ VA
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATI NO. 

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.95)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
CALI
FREQ KC
WRKS
OBs
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT.
7.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
GRIFFIN
ANALYBT
GMT:
0704
PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 16C& 6/& BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 51 HANOI 5/8 FRENCH INLO*******·**
ASSISTANCE WARVICTIMS ANNOU CEL TOLAY IT REA ITTED FRANCS
FIVETWOZEROTHOUSAND FRANCEWARD DURI JULY FOR RELIEF WAR
VICTIMS PARA
52 TOKYO 5/8 MI 5/8 TOKYO UNEXPECTED HAPPY GATHERING OF
GHOUP OF THAI STUDENTS NOW STUDYING TOKYOWISE AND JAPANESE
MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENIS
OF WAR BEHEAVED FANILIES TOYAMA PRE-
FECTURE WILL HELD HERE
TONORROW EVENIG AT JUTOKUIN M
JUTOKUIN TEMPLE WHICHS SITUATED IN COOL MOUITAIN SURROUND-
INGS UNATSUKI SPRING IN KUROBE VALLEY STOP ACCOMPANIED BY
THIRTEEN JAPANESE STUDENTS VAR!OUS UNIVERSSTIES TOKYOWISE
THAI STUDENTS TEN OF THEN ARRIVED HERE TUESDAY FOR THEIR
SUMMER TRAINING STOP INFORMED THAT JAPANESE MIDDLE SCHOOL
)
STUDENTS TOYAMA PREFECTURE WHOSE FATHERB GIVEN THEIR LIVES
s
1
FOR NATIONS CAUSE ALSO HAD COME TO NEARBY PLACE FOR SUMMER
2
3
TRAINING THAI STUDENTS IMMEDIATELY ASKED THEIR INSTRUCTORS
4
5
TO ARRANGE MEETING WITH THEM STOP SUGGESTION WAS QUICKLY
6
7
ACCEPTED BY JAPANESE STUDENTS STOP AMONG THAI STUDENTS IS
8
9
PRINCE VARNVAIDYAKARA VARAVARN RPT VARNVAIDYAKARA VARAVARN
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1783796

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
30543
8718
IONIAKIN
FILE
FILI
B
FRFOKC
7EQ KC
FREOK
FRROK
FADF
RST
WI…A
IGNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
WHOS ENROLLED PEERS SCHOOL PARA
53 KALGAN 6/8 IMI KALGAN 6/8 LEARNED TATUNG PROVINCIAL POLICE
CORPS RECENTLY UPROUNDED THREESIXEIGHT CHINESE CONAUNISTS AG-
ENTS IN QUOTE GRA ARY UNQUOTE REGIONS OF PROVINCE IRRIGATED
BY SANGKIEN RPT SANGKIEN HIVER WHICH FLOWS ALONG DOHDERS TATU-
NG HUNGUAN RPT HUNGUAN KWANGLING RPT KWANGLING YANGS**TN RPT
YANGSHAN TIENCHEN RPT TIENCHEN STOP REVEALED ARRESTED CHINESE
BELONGED CHINESE CONMUNIST EIGHTH ROUTE ARMY AND BEEN AT-
TEMPTING SPREAD CONMUNISM MENCHIANG AREA PARA
54 TOKYO 6/8 IMI TOKYO C/8 POSSESSING NATURAL LOVE AND KEEN
APPRECIATION MUSIC INDONESIANS QUICKLY ABLE PICK UP TUNE ANY
SIMPLE SONG AFTER HEARING IT ONCE TWICE DECLARED ICHIRO
FUJIYAMA RPT ICHIRO FUJIYAMA NIPPONS ONE POPULAREST SINGERS
UPON RETURNING HERE AFTER TOURING SIX MONTHS SUDREGIONSWISE
ENTERTAINING NIPPON SOLDIERS ON FRONTLINE WELLS POPULARIZING
NIPPONS SONGS AMONG INDONESIANS STOP SAID NIPPONS FOLK SONGS
2
9
MODERN MUSIC VERY POPULAR AMONG INDONESIANS WHO SOON ABLE
4
5
SING AFTER HEARING THEM STOP SAID UNDER DUTCH REGIME STUDY
6
7
MUSIC AMONG INDONESIANS DISCOURAGED ANL THEY UNABLE GAIN
8
9
ADMITTANCE CONCERTS DUE EXTREMELY HIGH PRICE TICKETS ADDING
10
EVEN WHEN LISTENING CONCERTS FROM CORRIDORS OUTSIDE HALLS
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: O 

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WRKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT-
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXEPPY
ANALYT:
GMT
LL
THEY COMPEETED PAY HIGH PRICE STOP ON OTHERHAND NIPPONS AUTHOR-
ITIES ENCOURAGING INDONESIANS DEVELOP NUSICAL TALENTS STOP
SAID INDONESIANS EXPRESSED PLEASANT SURPRISE DELIGHT OVER
MANNER WHEREIN NIPPON ARTISTS PERFORMED ON ALL MUSICAL IN-
STRUMENTS STOP RECALLED TIME HE SANG NUNBER NATIVE SONGS
W
PHICH RAPIDLY BEING FORGOTTEN DYING OUT DUE DUTCH POLICY
PROHIBITING INDONESIANS HEARING OWN FOLKSONGS MUSIC HE REC-
EIVED THUNDERING APPLAUSE AND CRIES FOR ENCORE AFTER ENCORE
STOP SAID WHILE IN CELEBES HE RECEIVED LETTER FRON GIRL AT-
TENDING MACASSAR GIRLS SCHOOL SAYING WHEN ISLAND UNDER DUTCH
REGIME NO RPT NO CONCERTS GIVEN FOR THEM AND WHEN THERE WERE
CONCERTS THEY HAD PAY PROHIBITIVE PRICE STOP SHE ADDED NIP-
PON AUTHORITIES GIVE FREQUENT FREE MUSICAL CONCERTS WHICH
LED THEM APPRECIATE LOVE NIPPONS MUSIC PARA
55 TOKYO 5/8 1M1 TOKYO 5/8 LEARNED NEWLY DESIGNED JAPANESE
8
1
MADE LATHES CUTTING MILLING ETGRINDING MACHINES UNONLY IN-
F
2
3
VOLVE AVERAGE SAVINGS IN MATERIALS OF THIRTY PERCENT ETFIRTY
4
5
PERCENT OVER PREVIOUS DOMESTIC MAKES BUT ALSO EXCEL ANGLO-
6
7
AMERICAN MAKES BY THREE HUNDRED PERCENT IN EFFICIENCY STOP
8
9
REMARKABLE IMPROVEMENT IN QUALITY ETTECHNIQUE OF PRODUCTION
10
OF MACHINE TOOLS IS FRUIT STRENUOUS EFFORTS MADE BY JAPANESE
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY
INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
543
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WOUKS
OBS
AL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREO KC
CMT
FADF
RST
WPM
IMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURERS UNDER ENCOURAGEMENT NINISTRY OF
COMMERCE ETINDUSTRY ORDER PRODUCE BETTER QUALITY MECHANICAL
PRODUCTS END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
0730
NM TU DE JUP/JUP
(UNREADABLE, CHARACTERS BLOCKED) /8 FLATLY CONDEMNING UNI-
STATES QUOTE WILLFUL TRANPLING OVER RIGHTS NEUTRAL STATES
UNQUOTE YOZO ISONO RPT YUZO ISONO DEPUT************ BREACH
(UNREADABLE, END INTERCEBT)
s
2
3
5
7
8
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT: ND 

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.98)
ONE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
3
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA
779
CALL
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
7327.5
NAT
FREQ KC
TT_
FREQKS
3
566
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION: DOMEI PRESS
INDICATORS:
M. SHOREY
INDEXED AY
ANALYET
GMT
JUD/JAU2 CQ DE JUD/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR N BC AT
3
182 AUG 6TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 14 MANILA 6/8 LL ANILA /8
THREEHUNDRED EIGHTY POSTOFFICES NOW OPENED PHILIPPINESWISE
WITH RECENT ADDITIO ELEVEN DRE POSTAL BRANCHES VARIDUS
MUNICIPALITIES DIRECTOR COMMUVICATIONS ANNOUNCED STOP
NEWLY OPNED POSTOFFICES LCCATED SIBALOM ANTIQUEWISE
SANFERNANDO CEBUWISE SANTACRUZ DAVAOWISE SANESTENBAN
COMMA SANTA ETSANTIAGO ILOCOSSURWISE LAPAZ COM A PURA
COMMA SANCHEMENTE COM A SANMANUEL ETSANTAIGNACIA TARLACWISE
PARA
15 HSINKING 6/8 1ML HSINKING 6/8
PAIROT JAIYANAMA RPT PAIROT JAIYANAMA DIRECTOR GENERAL
THAI PUBLICITY BUREAU DECLARED IN PRESS INTERVIEW HERE
( )
TODAY FIRSTHAND OBSERVATIDN IMMENSE ACTIVITIES MANCHOUKUO
s
1
IN INDUSTRIAL ETOTHER FIELDS AFFORDS INVALUABLE DATA FOR
2
3
ACCELERATION ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT THAILAND STOP ADDED
4
5
MANCHOUKUDS REMARKABLE DEVELOPMENT PAST DECADE PROVIDES
6
7
MOST CONVINCING GUIDANCE TO OTHER MEMBER NATIONS GREATER
8
9
EASTASIA COPROSPERITY SPHERE STOP SAID SATISFACTORY
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1798704

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.98)
AGE TWO
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
343
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALLFORNIA
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
BIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY:
M. SHOREY
ANALYBT:
GMT:
RESULTS OBTAINED CULTURAL EXCHANGE BETWEEN NIPPON THAILAND
E
AND FORESES SIMILAR EXCHANGE AGREEMENT BETWEEN  ANCHOUKUC
THAILAND WHICHLL WIDEN AVE UE UNDERSTANDING BOTH COUNTRIES
C
STOP JAIYANAMA ACCOMPANIED BY PRIOHANUSAT PANYARACHUN
CHIEF THAI PRESS ASSOCIATID AD THREE ASSOCIATES STOP
REEERRING JAPAN WHICH HE VISITE BEFORE HE CAE  ANCHCUKUD
M
JAIYANAMA SAID JAPANS HOMEFRONT WITH CONTINUCUSLY HUMMING
FACTORIES ETSOLID UNITY ITS PEOPLE WHICH CNCARRYING DUTIES
FLAWLESSLY IN CLOSE COOPERATIC WITH GOVERNMENT GAVE HIM
GREATEST CONFIDENCE JAPANS STRENGTH STOP MEANWHILE HIS
PARTY PROCEEDED SMORNING TO IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD MINISTRY
AND REGISTERED THEIR NAMES STOP LATER MADE COURTESY CALLS
ON LI SHAOKENG FOREGN MINISTER GENERAL CHANG CHINGHUI
PRIME MINISTER AND DISCUSSED VARIOUS MATTERS WITH MANCHOUKUD
( )
OFFICIALS PARA
S
1
16 KALGAN 6/8 LML KALGAN 6/8
2
3
LEARNED TATUNG PROVINCIAL POLICE CORPS RECENTLY ROUNDEDUP
4
5
THREESIXEIGHT CHINESE COMMUNIST AGENTS IN GRANARY REGION
6
7
SANGKIEN RIVER NEAR TATUNG STOP UNDERSTOOD THESE CHINESE
8
9
BELONGED CHINESE COMMUNIST EIGHTH ROUTE ARMY BEEN ENGAGED
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1798794

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.94)
THREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
NAI
FREO KC
TT
FREOKC
FADF
RST
WFM
IMN
BIGNAL DFSCRIPTION
M.SHOREY
BOLSHEVIZING MEN CHIANC AFEA PARA
17 TOKYO G/8 TOKYC C/8
FLATLY CO DEYNI
UITATES QUCTE ILFUL TRA PLI OVER
1OPT YUS IS
RIGHTEUTRAL STATTL YUZC
TILY FOREPREOU COT:ES
DEPUTY SPOKESLAATETI
PONDENTS QUOTE RCOSLVELT CHUROHILL DE A D TC EUTRAL
ASYLUTC AXIS POLITICAL
COUNTRIES THAT THLY RLFISE CFFEF
REACH CF ITLR ATIONAL
REFUGEES PEPRELETST BRAZEY
LAW AND DISRESPECT CF RIGT OF CVEREIGN ATI S UNQUCTE
0950
STOP OUTPOINTED ROOSEVELT STATE E TED AT HIS PRESS CONFERENCE
ABOUT WEEK AGO QUOTL EYE CA CNLY SAY THAT GOVLINMENT
UNISTATES WOULD PEGARD ACTICN CF NEUTRAL GOVIRENT IN
THEI DNLS AS INCONSISTENT
OFFERING ASYLUN TO AXIS LEADERS FOF
WITH PRINCIPLES WHEREFOR UINATIDNS FIGHTIG UNQUOTE STOP
HCS
ROCSEVELT SHOULD REMINDED SPOKES AN SAID QUCTL TIS HE
s
1
INCONSISTENT STOP ONLY PCIT HERCIN HE CONSISTENT IS
2
3
THAT NHE CONSIDERS HE CAN DISREGARD INTEANATIFAL LAW
4
WHENEVER HE DEE IT CONVENIENT UNQUOTE STOP FLATLY
5
6
7
DECLARED UNISTATES QUOTE CONSISTENTLY IGNORED OBLIGATIONS
8
INCUMBENT UPON NEUTRAL STATE UNQUOTE EVEN WHILE IT MAIN-
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT: NO. 170
1

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.97)
FOUR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ALIFORNIA
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICAIORS
M. SHOREY
ANALYBT
INDEXED BY
GMT:
TAINING NEUTRALITY BEFORE PARTICIPATION CURRLT VWAR STIP
QURTE BUT CNCE I WAR UNISTATES HAS CHOSE TRAMPLE WILFULLY
OVEF RIGHTS EUTFAL STATES N CTE ISOUO SAID STOP QUERIED
T
WHETHER HE BELIEVED ENE Y ALY OF POLITICAL PEFUCEE JU-T
PART OF WAR ERVES AND HAS  RPT ND BASIS I FAUT SPCKES-
MAN TERSELY REPLIED QUOTE EXACTLY STOP SUCH TALK HASNT ANY
GROUNDS AT ALL UNQUOTE PARA
18 SHANGHAI G/8 ML SHANGHAI G/8 REVEALED WW YEI! RPT
WW YEN FORMER SINOAMBASSADOR MDSCOW DECIDED BEGIN BUINESS
CAREER UPGIVING LIFE RETIREMENT WHICH HE LED SI CE CUT-
BREAK WAR GREATER EASTASIA STOP LEARNED YEN ETTHREE CTHER
INFLUENTIAL FINANCIERS SHANGHAI APPLIED NANKI G PROPERMISSION
GLU
ESTABLISH HSINLU RPT HSINGLU INVESTMENT COMPANY STOP
PROJECTED CONCERN WILL CAPITALIZED CRB X YUAN FIVEMILLION
( )
ETWILL ENGAGE INVESTMENT TRANSPORTATION MANUFACTURING
s
REALESTATE OTHER BUSINESS ENTERPRISES STOP YEN WHO WELL
1
2
KNOWN ABROAD AS ONE ABLEST SENIOR MEMBERS CHINAS DIPLOMATIC
3
4
SERVICE ACTIVE IN UNISTATES PRIOR OUTBREAK WAF AS SPECIAL
5
6
7
AGENT CHUNGKING STOP HOWEVER SINCE DUTBREAK WAR BEEN
SPRING
8
9
LEADING LIFE RETIREMENT HONGKONGWASE ETYESTERPKING
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1790764

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.95)
FIVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKFN
FILE
12718
FRFQ KC
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
FRRO KC
FADF
2ST
w…
JIGNAL DFSCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GM:
ANNOUNCED READINESS PARTICIPATE ANKING COVT PARA
19 TOKYO 6/8 L'AL TOKYO /8
1005
ASSERTION PRESENT STAGE PACIFIC AVAL WAR ITLIJAPAN
UNISTATES IS NE MAINTINANCE
SUPPLYLINES ETSUPPLYBASES
WELLS MAINTENANCE HIGH PITCH PRODUCTION  ADE PARQUALIFIED
NAVALLERS ON EVE FIRST AIV:FSARY EMCRABLE FIRST SEA-
BATTLE OFF SOLOMONS 7/6 9/8 LM1 7/6 9/8 YESTERYEAR STOP
1:C
0
UTPOINTING BOTH AMERICAN JAPATESE AVAL FORCES OPEFATI
FAR EXHOMEBASES DBSERVERS DECLARED NECESSITY THUS ARISES
MAINTAINING LANDBASES LF THEATER AROPERATILS HICH
CAN ACCOMPLISHED ONLY THRCU I RIGID MAINTENANCE VITAL
SUPPLYKINES STOP CUTPOINTED TRE ENDOUS EXTE T PRESE T
WAROPERATICNS COVERI
VAST AREA E TIRE SOUTHERN PACIFIC
FORCES BOTH SIDES DEPEND UPON REPLEISH ENT EXRESPECTIVE
HOMEFRONTS WHICH COMP:LLED  AINTAIN HIGHEST POSSIBLE PITCH
s
1
PRODUCTION STOP STRESSED AINTENANCE SUPLLYLINES ETMAIN-
2
3
TEANCE PRODUCTICN MOTIVATING FACTCRS BEHIND BITTER AIRLAND
4
5
BATTLES PRESENTLY RAGING SOLOMONS NEWGECRGIA AREAS STEP
NG
6
A
7
CRITICILLY REVIEWING ENEMYS NAVAL STRATEGY EXBEGINNIN WAR
8
G
9
TO PRESENT TIME NAVALLER OUTPOINTED AMERICAN STRATEY
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
SIX
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE X12718
CALIFORNIAOBS
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT.
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS.
BY：
M. SHOREY
INDEXELBY
ANALYBT:
GMT
GONE THROUGH THREE DISTI CT PHASES FIRSTLY BIG CATTLESHIP
BIG GUN PRI CIPLE SECONDLY CARRILR BASED AIFPCYER PRI CIPLE
THIRDLY LA DBASED AIRPO"EF PPI CIPLE CTOP DLCLA ED E'EMYS
INITIAL STRATEGY ASE BIATTL:SHIP BIC GI'CIPLE
SMASHED BEFO.E IT A LE BE APPLIL IN WAR A TIJAFA HE
JAPANESE AVAL FORCES ALREADYE STEP AHEAD A L ICAN
STRATEGY :TEMPLOYI G CARRIERBASED AIRPOWER STRATEGY
CRIPPLED BEYOND IMMEDIATE REPAIR AIN ALICAN NAVAL FORCE
DURING DEVASTATIG RAID PEAFLHARBCR DPENI  DAY WAR STOP
DUTPOINTED PEARLHAPBOR DEBACLE CUMITS LESSON OF STUPENDLUS
HITTING POWER AIRAR FORCED AMERICAN NAVALLERS SHELVE ANY
FURTHER APPLICATION IG BATTLESHIP BIG GUN PRI CIPL STOP
OUTCOME AS ADOPTION PRINCIPLE OF CARRIERBASED AIRPOWER
WHICH ALREADY USED PARJAPANESE NAVY AT PEARLHARBD TO
( )
SUCH TREMENDDUS ADVANTAGE STOP DECLARED FIRST REAL TEST
8
1
AMERICAN STRATEGY IN ITS SECOND PHASE WAS FIRST NAVAL
2
3
BATTLE OFF SOLOMONS 7/8 9/8 LL 7/8 9/8 YESTERYEAR FOLLOWED
4
5
PARSECOND ETTHIRD BATTLES OFF SOLOMONS ETBATTLE SOUTHPACIFIC
6
7
UP T0 NIGHT BATTTLE OFF LUNGA 30/12 LML 30/12 DURING WHICH
8
9
PERIOD AMERICAN NAVY LOST SEVEN BATTLESHIPS SIX AIRCRAFT
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17784

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.95)
JEVEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
rPFQKC
FREO KC
PREOKC
FADF
RST
wr A
GNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
CVI
CARRIERS THIRTYTWC CRUIOLT TYFIVE DESTRCYERS THREE
SUBMARINES FIFTEEN THANSPOET ULPLCIFIED TYPE ETOREN
THREEHUNDRED THIFTY L CY FLAO TRE DECL FED THESE
CRIPPLINC LOSSES PLUS PREVIFL LIS EC CAFFILE SARATCGA IN
BATTLE CORALSEAL CALSO ENTERPRISE HORT YORKTOWN
COMPLETELY JAMMED AMERICAN STRATEGY OF ATTACK BY CAR: IERBASED
AIRPOWER STRATEGY CARRIERBASED AIRPOE SUPPORTED BY
LARGE MOBILE FLEETS PROVED UTTER FAILUFE ( ORE) END BT
FURUNO DC EI AR
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
(DOTTER, HOLDS KEY DOWN)
1025
CQ DE JUP/JAP VE
1135
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 2&3O AUC GTH BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 2D MANILA C/8 LML MANILA BAB
F
( )
LEARNED FULZILLING DEMAND PRONATIVE SHIPS TO FACILITATE
s
1
INCREASED FLOW TRANSPDRTATICN OF NEWPHILIPPINES COMIODITIES
2
3
SMALL SHIPS RAPIDLY NEARI G COMPLETION VARIOUS SHIPYARDS
4
5
RIZAL PROVINCE STOP STURDY NATIVE SHIPS BEING CONST UCTED
6
7
GREATER NUMBERS EXHARD LUMBER TAKEN FROM PLENTIFUL
8
PHILIPPINE FORESTS PARA
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.97)
GHT
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
ALIFORIA
WORKS.
CALL
FREQ KC
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREO KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
M. SHCREY
nY
INDEXED BY
ANALYOT
GMT:
21 ADD ITEM NINETEEN FIRST ANIVLPSARY SOLCCNS COLON
A
DUTPOINTED FAILURE SECO D STRATE GY OF
CARRIERDASED AIRPOWEL
COMPELLED AMERICAN NAVAL HIGHCOMMAND AGAIN CHANGE TACTICS
THIS TIE UTILIZING LADBASED AIRPO EE "HICH STRATEGY
PRESENTLY BEING USED SOLONCC L EORGIA SECTOR ARFARE
STOP STRESSED IN APPLICATI THIS THIRD STRATECY A LRICAN
AVALLERS FIRST CONCENTRATED TRE E DCUS
ACUNTSESUPPLIES
WEASPONS CN ISLAND BASES CTSIDE RANGE
JAPANESE AIRAR
THE GRADUALLY ADVANCED TEIR FOREMOST BASES FROECALE-
DONIA TO NEWHEBRIDES ETEVETUALLY TO GUADALCANAL STOP
OBSERVERS DECLARED IPO TANTEST FACTOR THIRD STAGE IS
MAINTENANCE SUPPLYLINES STOP CUTPOITED DUPING PRESENT
STAGE NAVAL STRATEGY AMERICAN NAVY ALRCADY SUFFERED SUNK
DAMAGED THREE BATTLESHIPS SEVEN CRUISERS TWO DESTROYERS
( )
TEN TORPEDOBOATS TWENTYONE TRANSPORTS WELLS ONEHUNDRED
s
1
SIXTY ENEMY WARPLANES EITHER DOWNSHOT DESTROYED AGROUND
2
3
STOP DUTPOINTING ESPECIALLY LARGE NUMBER ENEMY TRANSPORTS
4
5
SUNK PARJAPANESE FORCES DURING BATTLE DFF FLORIDS ISLAND
6
D
L
7
ETDURING AIRBATTLE OFF LUNGA NAVALLERS SAI& THESE KOSSES
8
9
SHOW HOW FRANTICALLY AMERICANS TRING MAINTAIN THEIR
:0
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1787€

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.95)
TNE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTIONIAKEN
12718
ILE
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
FREQ KC
OBS
NAT
FREQ KC
FRFOKC
FADF
RST
WFM
M.SHOREY
C,M1
SUPPLYLINES STOP STRES ED AS A EPICANS BEGAN ADVANCE
S
AIRBASES CLESER TOWARD JAPA ESE  ORL DEVASTATIG LOSSES
FLICTED ON THE BOTH AIRWISE SEAWISE BY JAPANESE AIR
FORCE AS WITNESSED AIRBATTLES SHORTLAND ISLAD S/G L
5/6 AIRBATTLE OFF RUSSELL 7/C 11 7/6 SECO D AIRCATTLE
OFF RUSSELL 12/6 LL 12/6 STOP OBSE VERS HOWEVER CUTPCITED
AMERICANS UNBEING DETLRE) PARHUGE LOSSES ETDESPERATELY
TRYING IMPROVE POSITIONS AS SEEN IN LANDINGS MADE RENDOVA
ISLAND SOLOMONS 30/7/ETNLWGEDRGIA X 7/7 LL 3/7/ETNEW-
GEORGIA 7/7 STOP WHILE NONCDMMITTAL AS WHETHER PRESENT
UNISTATES ACTION ACTUALLY SIGNIFIES GENERAL OFFENSIVE
AGAINST JAPAN NAVALLERS NOTED PARTICULARLY BRILLIANT
ACHIEVEMENTS JAPANESE DESTROYER KYT FLOTILLAS DURING
NIGHT BATTLE KULA GULF 4/7 5/7 LML 4/7 5/7 ETNIGHT BATTLE
OFF KOLOMBANGARA 12/7 1ML 12/7 WHEREIN UNISTATES NAVY
S
1
SUFFERED SUNK DAMAGED SIX CRUISERS ONE LARGE DESTROYER CNE
2
3
SPECIAL SERVICE WARSHIP ETONE MUNINDENTIFIED TYPE WARSHIP
4
5
STOP OUTPDIATED AMERICAN NAVYS RELIANCE ON NUMERICAL
6
E
7
SUPRIORITY OUTCARRY OPERATIONS REPEATEDLY GIVEN CHANCE
8
JAPANESE NAVY MAKE SWIFT CRIPPLING ATTACKS NOTIBLEST
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT ND

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
TEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
3
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
CALIFORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
BIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYOT
GMT
WHICH RAID ON RENDOVA HARBOR 1/8 L 1/8 WHEN SUNK DAMAGED
ONE CRUISER CNE LARGE TRA SPORT FCUR MEDIUM ETSIX SALL
TRANSPORTS ONE DESTROYER ETMOREN SEVE: LANDING BARGES STOP
ADDED JAPANESE NAVAL AIRME OFEOVEF SUCCEEDED BOMBING
SMASHING ENEMY TORPEDOBOAT BASE ETSTORAGE DEPCTS IN
HARBOR AREA STOP SURVEYI PRESENT THEATER WAR SOUTHPACIFIC
OBSERVERS DECLARED AMERICAN LINES UPDRAWN TRIANGLE FORMED
PARGUADALCANAL PORTMORESBY ETPORTDARWIN STOP OUTPCI TED
AMERICANS HAVE ADVANCE BASES AT MILNE BAY BUNA ERAUKE
OTHER POINTS STOP SAID CN CTHER HAND JAPANESE LINE FORMED
BY MUNDA ON NEWCEORGIA KOLOMBANGARA ISLA D SHORTLAND
ISLAND ETBUIN ON BOUGAINVILLE ISLAND CUMSUPPORTING BASES
AT RABAUL NEWBRITAIN SULUMI KAVIENG ALSO LAE SALAMAUA MUBO
BABO ON NEWGUINEA WELLS KEI TANIMBER ISLANDS STOP STRESSED
( )
SUCCESS PROEITHER SIDE DEPENDS UPON MAINTENANCE SUPPLYLINES
S
1
STOP EMPHASIZING INABILITY AUSTRALIA SUPPLY TREMENDOUS
2
3
DEMANDS AMERICAN FORCES THIS AREA OBSERVERS OPINED ANY
4
5
REPLONISHMENT PROVISIONS REINFORCEMENT MANPOWER MUST COE
6
7
EXAMERICAN MAINLAND STOP DECLARED CUMFRONTLINE FORCES
8
9
DEPENDING ON HOMEFRONT PROREPLENISHMENT MATERIALS PRESENT
10
2
PAT. NO. 178574
TO UNIT:

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKFN
FILE
FRFQ KC
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
OBS
NAI
FREO KC
rT
FREO KC
CMT
N
FADF
RST
WPM
FMN
BIGNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
STAGE ALSO ONE MAINTENANCE PRODUCTION PITCH STOP NAVALLERS
MEANWHILE POINTED TABULATION FIGURES RELEASED SMORNING BY
YOMIURIHOCHI STOP FIGURES DISCLOSED THREEHUNDRED T ENTY-
FIVE AMERICAN WARSHIPS TRANSPORTS SUNK DA AGED TWOTHCUSAND
EIGHTHUNDRED EIGHTYFIVE ENEMY PLANES DOWNSHOT OR DESTROYED
AGROUND DURING ONEYEAR PEFIOD EXFIRST SEABATTLE SOLCMONS
STOP STRESSED FIGURES SHOW YEZYNDOUS TREMANDOUS SACRIFICES
WHICH AMERICANS PAYING ORDER FOLLOW PRESENT STRATEGY
U
STOP OHTPOINTED JAPANESE FORCES ALSO SUFFERE GREATER
LOSSES THAN ANYTIME PASTWISE CUMTWENTY WARSHIPS SUNK
THIRTY DAMAGED FORTY TRANSPORTS SUNK DAMAGED SEVENHUNDRED
PLANES EITHER LOST DAMAGED STOP OBSERVERS NOTED ESPECIALLY
TABULATIONS SHOWS AMERICANS SUFFERING FOURTIMES AS MANY
LOSSES AS JAPANESE STOP FOLLOWING DETAILED TABULATION
APPEARING YOMIURIHOCHI AMERICAN LOSSES SINCE FIRST BATTLE
s
1
SOLOMONS ON BASIS IMPERIAL HEADQUARTERS ANNDUNCEMENTS
2
s
DASH SUNK RPT SUNK COLON SIX BATTLESHIPS FOUR AIRCARRIERS
FOURTYFOUR CRUISERS THIRTYSEVEN DESTROYERS FORTY SUBMARINES
ONE SPECIALSERVICE WARSHIP ONE MINESWEEPER FOURTEEN TORPEDO-
BOATS FOUR PATROLBOATS ONE UNIDENTIFLED SHIP STOP BRACKET
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.98)
GE TRELVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
543
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS.
CALLFORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
M. SHOREY
INDEXLD PY
ANALYET:
GMT:
ACHIEVEMENTS JAPANESE SUBMARI ES BEEN INCLUDED ALTHOUGH
ZONES WHEREIN FEATS ACCOMPLISHED NOT RPT NOT REVLALED
UNBRACKET STOP DA AGED RPT DA AGED CCLOU FOUR BATTLESHIPS
FOUR AIRCARRIERS IE CRUISETETY DESTROYER FIVE
SUBMARINES ONE MINESWEEPERE TORPEDOBOAT ONE PATROL-
BOAT THREE UNIDENTIFIED VESSELS OR TOTAL OF FOARTYEIGHT
WHICH BRINGS GRAND TOTAL OF WAPS LIPS SUNK OR DANAGED TO
TWO HUNDRED BRACKET EXCLUSIVE NUMBER OF LANDI G LAUNCHES
WHICH SUNK UNBRACKET STOP TRANSPORTS SUNK RPT SUNK COLON
DNEHUNDRED SEVEN ETDAMAGED RPT DAMAGED EIGHTEEN OR TOTAL
OF HUNDRED TWENTYFIVE SUNK OR DANAGED STOP AIRPLANES
DOWNSHOT COLON TWOTHDUSAND FIVEHUNDRED EIGHTY DESTROYED
AGROUND COLON THREEHUNDRED FIVE OR TOTAL TWOTHOUSAND
EIGHTHUNDRED EIGHTYFIVE DOWNSHOT DESTROYED AGROUND END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
1215
NM TU DE JUO/ JAU 2 YA
2
3
5
6
7
8
9
10
CONTINUE -- CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17874

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.94)
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNIGATIONS
TO THE BECRETARY
MAIRMAN
T. J. BLOWIE, SECRETARY
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
PAYNE
XWASHINGDOXX DX XII
EN
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
KEFIELD
August 13, 1943
ORR
VIA SPECIAL  SSENGER
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
Honorablo idol . rle, Jr.
Assistant pecret ry o. ta'e
Department of State
"ashington,.
894.76/147
y deur "r. erie:
Atteche serewitl are additiosl opier  onei
894.76
Press intorce td ir m uoenece sto
trui yours
Awnorman
. Horran, Acting h of.
adic Intelli once Division
FILED
Attachments
6-1943
0
dential File
S
AUGI31943
FOPDEFENSE
BUY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND STAMPS

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.94)
OWE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
12718
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
ILE
LIFORNIA
719
CALI
FREQ KC
9430
FRFQ KC
FRFOKC
Tr
FREO KC
3
566
25
FADF
RST
WPM
C.MT
DOMEI PRESS.
AL DESCRIPTION
IMN
M. SHOREY
11
CMI
CQ DE JU0/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 183D AUG 8TH BT
COPYRIGHT DO EI 15 HSINKING 7/8 1 15 HSI KI G /8
H
REVEALED CHANG CHINGNUI TODAY RECEIVED TELEGRA EXFRESSING
THANKS FROM BURMESE PREMIER BA MAW IN RETURN PREMIER CHANGS
MESSAGE CONGRATULATION OVEF BUKAAS ATTAINME T FULL INDEPEN-
DENCE 1/8 LML 1/8 STOP MESSAGE READS COLON LET E EXPRESS
A
MY PROFOUND APPRECIATION YOUR EXCELLENCYS CORDIAL CONGR-
TULATORY MESSAGE DVER BURMAS FOUNDIG STOP ON BEHALF
GOVERNMENT AND PEOPLE NEW BURMA EYE PLEDGE ENTIRE EFFORT
TOWARD FINAL VICTORY OVE DUR CONIC ENEMIES AD CONSUMMATION
GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY SPHERE PARA
16 MANILA 7/8 1ML 16 MANILA 7/8
IN STATEMENT ISSUED FOLLOWIG SMORNI GS MEETI G PREPARATORY
NT
COMMISSION PHILIPPINES I DEPENDENCE JOSEP LAUREL PRESIDET
COMMISSION REVEALED DRAFTING COMITTEE PCPI WILL IMMEDIATELY
s
1
BEGIN TASK DRAFTI G CONSTITUTION FOR NEW PHILIPPINES STOP
2
3
REVEALED SAMETIME DRAFTING COMITTEE WILL MEET EVERYDAY
5
ORDER UPDRAW OF BILL EARLYS POSSIBLE STOP LAUREL SAID QUOTE
8
7
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE IN DRAFTING CONSTITUTION CONSISTS IN
8
9
REFLECTING ATTITUDE OF PEDPLE OF PHILIPPINES SDAS MEET
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.98)
TWO
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ALIFORNIA
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT-
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
UY
M. SHOREY
INDEXED DY
ANALYBT:
GMT:
PRESENT SITUATION AND AS SUCH I ESTABLISHING WOULDBE
INDEPENDENT COUNTRY BCTH INALLY A VIRTUALLY UUCTE
STOP ADDED WHEN DRAFT BILL CO PLETED T ILL BRCUGHT BEFORE
ALLPLENARY MEETING PCPI FCF IT APPROVAL STOP SAID REGARDS
PEOPER
PROVISIONS
CO STITUTICACETILLADE
OCCASIO FOLLO I G ITS APPROVAL STOP SAID REGARDS PROVISIONS
CPROPER OCCASICN
CONSTITUTION ANNOUNCEMET ILL
FOLLOWIL ITS APPRDVAL BY ALLPLLHARY EETING STOP OUTPOINTING
PURPOSE CO STITUTIO IS UNONLY EET POPULAR EXPECTATION
CONSTITUTIDWORTHY
0045
PHILIPPINES PEOPLE BUT ACHIEVE
INDEPENDENT COUNTRY LAUREL E PHASIZED TELL ALSO QUOTE
INDICATE PART PHILIPPINES WILL CONTRIBUTE TO ESTABLISHMENT
GREATER EASTASIA COPROSPERITY SPHERE UNQUOTE ADDED QUOTE
ALL MEMBERS COMMISION FULLY DETERMINED EXERT UTMOST EFFORT
ORDER ACHIEVE SUPREME OBJECTIVE PARA
s
1
17 TOKYO 8/8 LML 17 TOKYO 8/8 NEWS OF SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSES
2
3
MOMENTOUS LAUNCHING ARMED MOVEMENT FOR INDEPENDENCE INDIA
4
5
UNDOUBTEDLY MUSTVE AFFECTED PROFOUNDLY MAHATMA GANDHI NOW
6
7
IMPRISONES AT AGAKHANS PALACE POORNA YONEJIRO NDGUCHI NOTED
8
9
JAPANESE AUTHOR DECLARED ON ONEYEAR ANNIVERSARY GANDHIS
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17764

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.95)
AGE THREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
ACTNIAKIN
FILE
FILE
12718
CALIFORNIA
FRFQ KC
VFO KC
FREO KC
2A1
FREOKI
FADF
RST
WFA
BIGNAI DFSCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
IMPRISON ENT ACCORDING TOKYO SHI BUN STOP NOGUCHI WHOS OLD
FRIEND OF SEVENTYSIX YEAROLD I DIAN LEADER SAID QUESTI
INDIAN IDEPENDENCE ALREADY PASSED STAGE MEE DISCUSSI
TO ONE OF ACTUAL PRACTICE AND SHCULD NDIA FAIL IN CAPITALI-
ZING ON THIS GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY ITLL NEVER ATTAII INDEPEN-
DENCE STOP JAPANS GRA TING INDEPENDE CE TO BURMA SHDULDVE
CLEAREI MINDS OF I DIANS OF ANY TRACE DOUBT REGRARDI G
NIPPONS SINCERITY HE SAID STOP LAUDI G UNPARALLED QULTURAL
TRADITIONS SUPERIOR RACIAL CHARACTERISTICS I DIANS NOGUCHI
SAID TIME FAST APPROACHING FOR I DIANS RECXVER THEIR
INTERNATIONAL STATUS JUSTLY DUE THEM STOP THAT DAY HE SAID
WOULD SINGNIFY DAY FOR RECONSTRUCTION ENTIRE ASIA STOP
VOICING HSS IMPRESSIONS SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE PRIOR LATTERS
DEPARTURE FOR SHONAN NOGUCHI DECLARED HIS ACTIONS REVEAL
( )
FIRM INNER RELIABILITY STOP THERES NO RPT NOT AYA TRACE
s
1
TIMIDITY IN HIM NDGUCHI SAID CC CLUDING WITH DEFT
2
3
ANALYTICAL STATEMENT THAT GANDHIS NONOBEDIENCE OVEMENT
4
5
AND BOSES ARMED RESISTANCE PUT TOGETHER PRODUCES HAPPY
7
MEDIUM THATLL CONTRIBUTE MUCH TOWARDS ATTAINMENT INDIAN
INDEPENDENCE PARA
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE -- CLOGE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 1

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.98)
AGE
FOUR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12788
CALL
FREQ KC
GALIFORNIAOBS
WORKS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT.
TT-
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
M.SHCREY
INDE XED BY
ANALYBT
GMT.
18 HANGHAI 88 ML 18 SHANGHAI 8/8
ADMIRAL ZENGO YOSHIGA COANDERCHIEF NIPPON FLEET CHINA
N
WATERS COMPLETED HIS TOUR ISPECTI VARIUS AVALITS
UNDER HIS COMMAND AT WEIHAIWEI CHEFOO LIENYUNCHIANG
RETURNED HERE TODAY NAVY PRESS SECTI I PERIAL FLEET
ANNDUNCED END BT
0957
FURUNC DO EI AR
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
113
PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR W BC AT 2. 3 AUC TH BT
COPYRIGHT DO EI 19 MANILA 88 M
19 MANILA 8/8
COLLAPSE BRITAIN VEFY NEAR FUTURE AND SUBSEQUENT CRUMBLING
HER EMPIRE PREDICTED WHEREOF INDIA WEAKEST LINK DUL
TWOHUNDRED YEARS INHUMAN BRITSH POLICY ACCORDING COLCNEL
JIRO SAITO RPT JIRO SAITO CHIEF HODOBU BRACKET DEPARTMENT
( )
INFORMATION UNBRACKET JAPANESE EXPEDITIONARY FORCES PHILI-
2
PPINES IN STATEMENT FIRST ANNIVERSARY MAHATMA GANDHIS FIERY
3
4
DEMAND FOR EVACUATION BRITISH FORCES ENTINDIA STOP SAID
5
6
QUDTE THAT ISOLATED SMALL ENGLAND DESTINED COLLAPSE VERY
7
8
NEAR FUTURE BEFORE
****OFFENSIVECERTAINSTOP
10
HER TERRITORY WILL
AND COLNIES
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 178786

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.95)
FIVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
12718
ACTION TAKFN
ALIFORNIA
FRFQ KC
ORS
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
FREO KC
FADF
RST
WPM
SNAL DESCRIPTION
MN
M. SHOREY
GM
WILL ONE AFTEF ANOTHEI RLMAIS
(UNABLE TO COPY DUE TO TERIIFIC LINE NOISE)
BE FREE LONGS BRITISH FDRCES RL AI'ED I DIA ISE OR USED
A
I DIA AS BASE
EOPERATIOS UGUOTE STOI SAID GANDHIS I CRCE A
TION AROUSED FURY AND IDIGNATI I DIA PEOPLE AND AS
MANIFESTLY REVEALE I EVERGROWI'G ATIBRITISH VECT
WITHIN AND OUTSIDES INDIA A HIS TWETYONC DAY FAST ENCOU-
RAGED STIMULATED RESISTANCE AMONG HOTBLOODED IDIAN PATRIOTS
E
STOP AEIDED QUOTE BRITISH CAN LAY HAUGHTINBSS OR ARROGANCE
IN PRESENCE I DIANS STOP THEY NO RPT NO LONGER ABSOLUTE
HUMANE PEOPLE UNQUOTE SAID QUOTE TWOMILLION INDIANS
EASTASIAWISE DRGANIZED POWERFUL WELLEQUIPPED NATIONAL
ARMY WHICH READY MARCH SUBQUOTE ON TO DELHI UNSUBQUOTE
UNDER COMMAND SUBHAS CHANDRA BOSE UNQUOTE STOP CONTINUED
( )
TIS CLEAR BRITAIN WANTS CONTINUE HER GREEDY EXPLOITATION
s
1
AND MERCILESS DOMINATICN BY HANDING INDIA UNISTATESWARD AT
2
WHEN SHE CAN NO RPT NO
3
GREAT EXPENSE AT VERY STAGE OF WAR
4
LONGER HOLD HER TREASURE LAND UNQUOTE STOP SAITO CONCLUDED
7
QUOTE SHOULD BORNE IN MIND HOWEVER THAT ELEPHANTS OF INDIA
8
9
ONCE FURIOUS INDIGNANT WILL TREAD AND TRAMPLE DOWN FENCE
10
TO UNIT:
PATIND

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.97)
31x
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
LE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CIFORNIA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
M. SHOREY
INOFXLDLY
AVALYOT
GMT
C
BRITISH IMPERIALISM AND DASH TOWARD OAL SUBQUCTE FREE
INDIA UNSUBQUOTE UNQUOTE PARA
1145
20 TAIYUAN 8/8 1M1 20 TAIYUAN 88
LEARNED NIPPON UNITS CONTINUING UNRENITTI:G UPOPPING
OPERATIONS DURING MONTH JULY AGAINST CHUNGKI:G SINORED
TROOPS INFESTING SHANSI PROVINCE BESIDES CAPTURI G IZEABLE
E
BODTY PRISONERD FOUNINEEIGHT FOUND ONETHOUSAND THREEFIVE-
SEVEN ENEMY DEAD ON FIELDS BATTLE STOP COMPOSITE RESULTS
REVEALED I PERIAL UNITS ENGAGED ENEMY O THRLETIREEFIVE
OCCASIONS ESTIMATED AT TOTAL OF THIRTYTUREETHCUSA D EIGHTTWO
THREE STOP ABCVE RLSULTS DO NCT RPT O INCLUDE WAR RESULTS
OBTAINES DURING SUMMER TAIHSIG OPE TICS PARA
21 BANDOENG 7/6 LL 21 BANDCENG 7/8 DEVELCPMENT EACH
ADMINISTRATIVE AREA SOUTHE REGIC S UNDER  ILITAHY ADMINIS-
TRATION HAS SHOWN SUCH PROGRLSS THAT TIME HAS COME
COORDINATE
0
VARIOUS ADMINISTRATIONS FOR PROMOTIN INTERAREA RELATIONS
2
ESPECIALLY IN FIELD OF EXCHANGE GOODS DECLARED IHOZO MURATA
3
ADVISDR TO MILITARY ADMINISTRATION PHILIPPINES UPON NOTING
EXTENT PROGRESS IN AREAS ALREADY VISITED DURING HIS MONTHS
TOUR SOUTHERN REGIONS STOP MURATA ARRIVED DJAWA 1/8 LML 1/8
AND CAME HERE WEDNESDAY VIA SURABAYA MALAN SEMARANG STOP
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS  ) PRIORITY INTERCEPTS  PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788704

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.94)
EN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
LIFORNIA
FREOKC
CRS
NAT
FREOKC
r
FRrOHT
FADF
RST
WPM
FMN
GNAL DFSCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
NG
GMI
HES EXPECTED VISIT DJAKARTA SUNDAY AFTLI I CPECTI
PLANTATIONS NEAP HERE STOP RICH NATURAL RES URCES DJAWA
BEING FULLY DEVELOPED THANKS QUOTE PERFECT COLLABORATION
A
UNQUOTE BETWEEN MILITARY ABMINISTRATICN HEADQUARTEFS LOCAL
INHABITANTS STOP SAID HE PARTICULA LY I PRESSED BY STEADY
PROGRESS MILITARY ADMI ISTPATION OVE ENTIRE ISLAND STOP
IN CELEBES IPPON OFFICIALS CIVILIANS FORMING CLOSE UNITY
AND I PARTING TC I HAITANTS EFFECTIVE GUIDANCE FOR INDUCTRIAL
DEVELOPMENT INCREASED PRODUCTIN FOODSTUFFS MURATA CO CLUDED
END BT
FURUNO DIEI AR
1203
NM TU DE JUC/JAU2 VA
(END ENTERCEPT)
s
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
0
PAT: NO. (70
TO UNIT:

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.96)
8-R8C
DATE 8/7/43
COPY:
MONOLULU.T.H.
_OBSERVER61
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY175KC. SENDING TO:CQ
ST7 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION 25 WPM TAPE
BION A2
1835 BC AT 223 AUG 7TH
DOMEI 45 (ZENBINTUZUKI) SARANIKYOOMI FUKAIKOTOTOSITE CHUUMOKUO
HIKUNOWA TEKIWASONGAIO KESSITE ZENBUTAKNI TUUKOKUSEZU TUNINEJIBUNNO
BUTAIYIGAINI KOOHUOO 8IYOOTOMOSINAI SOOJUUSHANO SINYISOOSITUO
KENSITE KAKARU HIMITUSHUGIO MAMOTTERU NODAROOGA WAGAHOOGA DONNASO-
NGAIO KOOMUROOTOMO KOREOZENBUTAINI TUUKOKU KONGONO KOODOONO SISIN-
TARA SIMETERUNOTO OMOSIROI TAISHOOWO SIMESITERU TENWABIANO TIRI
KISHOOWO JUKUTISITERORI SIKAMOINDO MATAJIBUNNO TOTINI ZOUR
*** TEKIGAWANO TIRU KISHOONITUITE KOREOSOOZOO SURUIAIAI 
-TOIU FURINATIYINI ARSNIMO KAKAWARAZU TUNENI ATTOOTEKI YUUSIO JISI-
TERUNOWA WAGAKOOMYOO KAKANNARU SAKUSENTO ARAWABIO YUUMOO FUNTOONKI
YORUMONOKDEARU (OWARI)
46 (BOOTOO KAIHONYEINO JUUDANKAIDAN) BERURINNANAHI SEKAI SENKYOKUNO
JUUDAITENKINI TOOMENSI HITORAA BOOTOOWA KAHANRAI TOOTOO DAIHOYENI
TOO (BEITOONOTOO) GUNARABINI SEIFUNO SMNOOWO SHOOTISO JUUYOOKYOOGIO
TOGETA MIGIKAIDANNIWA GEERINGU SHOO FON RIBBENTOROPPU GAISHOO
SHUPAA GUNJUBHOO HIMURAA SINYEITAIKCNO MARABINI GEBBERUSU SENDEN-
SHOO SANBOOBOOCHOO KAITERU GENSUI GUNREIBU SOOCHOO DEENITU TEITOKU
KUUGUN BOOSIRIE MIRUHHI SHOOGUN SONOTA TUAITURAA SHOOGUN JODORU
SHOOGUNRAGA SHUSSEKITA KAIDANNO NAIYOOWAISSAI GOKUHINI FUBARETERUGA
BERURIN KAKUSINBUNWA NANAHINO CHOOKAN SIJOONI IJOODOITU SHUNOONO
KAIDA NI KAINSHUNU SHUABEWIOKE DOKUSHANO CHUUIO HIITERU.
1345 47.

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.94)
PA/H
ANDS EMBASSY
JASHINGTON
No. P-2167
July 14th, 1943
MR HUKNBECK
hle
ii
ADVISER
JUL15 1943
T.LB.
Dear StarMey:
I am sending you herewith a short memo-
randum we received from Australia concerning the danger
894.76
of using certain Japenese broadcasts for our own propa-
ganda. I leave it to your expert judgnent to see that
894.76/148
the contents of this enclosure are brought to the atten-
ton of the American authorities interested in these
questions.
111
Sincerely yours,
Netherlands Ambassador
Mr. Stanley Hornbeck
S/MJN
United States Department of State
Washington, D. C.
54
C

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.98)
EMORANDULi:
The Japanese local broadcasts for the Netherlands
Indies from Bandoeng, Lacassar and Batavia are now being
regularly received in Australia and provide important
material for military purposes because the Japanese are
not aware that these broadcasts are being received.
information obtained fron these broadcasts, therefore, is
distributed in a strictly confidential mnner with the
request that it not be used in such a way that the fact
of its recertion be betrayed.
Tublicatior of inforuntion fron the Japanese
hone broadcasting service in the United Stotes and also
in the shortwave broadcasts has alroady caused complete
disaprearance of all military, economical, and psychological
indiscretions in these broadcasts, which previously occurred
frequently. The Japanese can also prevent the reception
of these broadcasts in the nited States and in Australia
by weakering their volume.
The Halay broadcast of Radio San Francisco of
June 26th at 23.10 F.X. mentioned the fact that the Tojo
Government also has a brordcasting staticn at Yacassar
which continuelly nakes exasgerated stateuents concerning
Japanese victories and completely false news. Furthermore
Radio Macessar local service has been cuoted about anti-
aircraft exercises. T
These fects are of serious consequence
because the Sar Francisco shortwave broadcasts very probably
cannot be reccived by the ropulation of the East Indies
but are most certainly listened in on by the Japanese.

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
randum Continued--2
Therefore it is very urgent that no reference be made in
American broadcasts or in publications to local Japanese
broadcasts in the Hetherlands Indies, even if they are
directly received in the United States.
This question also has the attention of the
military authorities in Australia.

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.86)
MD
PA
H
FE1B
Actn
Jaly 16, 1943.
seor Mr. Ambesseder
I hare roseived esd I thank you fer your
Letter ef July 14, 1943 with whiek you sest me
sies in Australle.
I shell be gled te being the conteate of
this memeransum to the atteatien of interested
sstheritles for suck apprepriate aetien as
they may wiah to take.
Yours sinserely,
894.76
STANLEY K. HORNBECK
894.76/148
Hie Eselleasy
R. A. Le.
Asbecsader of the Hetherlanks,
Vashingten, B. C.
A true ccpy of
the signed orks
PM
hnal.
we
PA/H,zis
PA/HI SS: JNO

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.94)
14A
July 27, 
My dear Xr. Ambassador:
With referonee to your letter of July l4, and my
aoknowledgment of July 15, in regard to the subjeet of
broadoasts from the Netherlands East Indies, I Informally
broughs the contents of your memorandum to the attention
of the interested autrorities.
I have now been informed that Rallo San Franoisoo
mentioned in a broadoast in Malay on June 6 at 23:l0 p.m.
(belleved to be the one to whioh you referred) that the
Japanese Government han a broadoasting station at Macaseer.
This information was obtained from a Japanese short-wave
894.76
broadoast from the Netherlands East Indies, monitored on
894.76/148
the west coast of the United States, that the same infere
mation had previously been reeeived by mail from Australia
and that it had been treated as confidential until it was
reeeived from the Japanese short-wave troadoast itself;
and that there appeared in a recent issue of a Netherlands
publaeation, the "Kniokerbooker Weekly", New York, the
statement that the Japanese have been broadoasting frem
Nacasser in Malay and that these broadcasts were being
monitored in Australia by the Netherlandere.
I understand that this matter is being brought to the
attention of Radio San Franciseo.
Yours sinoerely,
k4
PSMJN
Mis Exoellengy
Dr. A. Louden,
Ambassadir of the Netherlands,
SUL 27 1943
eax
Washiagte, D. C.
the
JUL 27 1943P
Fm
Eu
7/20/45

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.89)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CURRENT INFORMATION
July 23, 1943
Pa/H - Ir. hornbck:
Rererence your unuerlying tug of
July 23.
1 showed your menorandum to : r. faylor
of OlI. he suia thut the point you smue
was a ood one and that he woula brin. i
to the uttent ion of O..1's pun Fruncisco
orfice.
In this generu connection he stitec
that the monit orintsof a number of oro d-
custing stutions are never puoted or used
over the ir.
!..yero
1
cullu
/

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.97)
MSM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADVISER ON POLITICAL RELATIONS
July 23, 1943.
CI/L - Mr. Myers:
Reference, Mr. George Taylor's memorandum
to you of July 2l in regard to the subject of
broadcasts to which the Netherlands Ambassador
had called attention in the Ambassador's letter
to me of July 14:
In Mr. Taylor's memorandum there 1s given
what appears to me an adequate explanation of
the broadcast of June 6 under reference and an
ample rejoinder to the 1mplied complaint trans-
mitted by the Ambassador. However, exnlanation
and justification, while serving to throw
complsint out of court, do not, in my opinion,
go to the heart of the matter. The important
question, it seeme to me, is: Is it or is it
not advisable for us (or the Dutch) in any way
to call attention to the fact that we are
aware of the exietence of the Jananese broad-
casting station at Macassar and that broadcasts
from that station are being monitored in
Australia by the Dutch? In raising that ques-
tion, I am hot attempting to give the answer
to it. But, to me, it seems to be the question
which neede moet to be given consideration.
S
(is. 9 ane attutin)
PA/H: SKH: FLB

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF CURRENT INFORMATION
July 23, 1943.
PA/H - Mr. Hornbeck:
Reference the underlying note of
the Netherlands Ambassador in regard to
Jananese local broadcasts from the
Netherlands Indies.
There 1s attached hereto a self-
explanatory memorandum from Mr. George
Taylor, Chief of the Seventh Region
(Far East) of OWI, which deals with the
complaint of the Netherlands Ambaseador.
luly.
CI/L:MSMyore:DRJ

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.97)
OFFICE OF WAR INFORMATION
CONFIDENTIAL
WASHINGTON
MEMORANDUM
July 21, 1943
TO:
Mr. M. S. Myers
FROM:
With reference to your memorandum of uily 17.
It is true tunt adio San rancisco made a breadcsst in Malay on
June 6. at 23.10 p.m. in which the 1net was mentioneu tnat the Tojo
Government bs a brorucestie station at Mocessar.
The informetion n whieh this was cased w: token from a noxi-
tored report of  Jepanese shortwave breodcast tr m the Netherlends est
Indies ane received on the west oast of the Uniteu states. ne heu re-
894.76
ceived the some inforar tion ty meil from our representative in Austrelia
who hed merked it for beckeround on'y. ve trested tnis intorle tion as
confidential until it was received fron tne Jap nese broadcast itself.
We find it difficult to understend the opinions expressed in the
894.76/149
memorandum to Mr. Hornbeck ir view of ne fect that a utch publication,
"The Knickerbocker Weekly", New York, in a recent issue, stated that the
Japanese are broedcasting from Macassar in Malay and that these broad-
casts were being monitored in Austrelie oy the butch.
We are very led, inueed, to ive you this intormstion.
DECLASSIFIEB
11652. Soc. 20D)
sil
PORYICTORY
BUY
S
144
BONDS
WAR
CONFIDENTIAL
AND
STAMPS

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.95)
EE
NETHERLANDS EMBASSY
3
WASHINGTON
FA/L
Abgust 3rd, 1943
No. P-2311
My dear Mr. Hornbeck:
Your kind letter of July 27th was
received during the absence of Dr. Loudon.
I very much appreciate your kindness
in explaining how Radio San Francisco was informed about
the Japanese broadcasts from Macassar.
94.76/1
Believe me,
894.76
Yours very sincerely,
Jrikila
50
Chargé d'Affaires a.1.
Mr. Stanley Hornbeck
United States Department of State
Washington, D. C.
PS M JN

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.95)
COMMIBSIONERS
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
JAMES LAWRENCE FLY. CHAIRMAN
PAUL A. WALKER
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
NORMAN B. CABE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
GEORGE HENRY PAYNE
XMSINKDOXXX XK XX
FC
T. A. M. CRAVEN
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
RAY C. WAKEFIELD
EE
August 19, 1943
C. J. DURR
S4L
1943
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
MR. BERLE
CONFIDENTIAL
File 12718
894.76
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
894.76/151
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
Attached herewith are additional copies of
Domei Press intercepted from Japanese stations.
Also atteched are copies of intercepts of
traffic between Argentina and Japan.
Very truly yours,
DECLASFTED
E0
Awhorman
S. W. Norman, Acting Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
PS/MEL
Attachments
16
AUG 30 1943
FILED
AUG1
FORDEFENSE
OPARTMINT0
BUY
UNITED
STATES
AVINGS
BONDS
ANDSTAMPS

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.97)
MOMOLULUT.M.
_OBSERVER3
COPY:
FREQUENCY13KC. BENDING TO:
ION 1 RST 47 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE AT 25  LIONT FADING
GMT
(PAGE ONE OF FOUR PAGES)
1325
CQ DE JUP/JUQ
1332
VE VE VE PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 223 AUG 9TH BI
DOMEI DAIHONVEI VAMAGI RIKUGUN HOODOOBUCHOOWA NANAHI KOOBESINIOITE
DAITOOASENSOONO SEIKAKUTO SONOHATTENTO DAISITE YAKU ITIJUKANHANNI
IATARI KOOENWO OKONAI KONJI IITOOASENSOOGA MANSHUUJIHENNI HIKITUZ-
UKU IKKANSITA SEKAI SINTITUJO KENSETUCHOO ENDAINARU RINENNI KISOZ-
UKERARERU MONODEARI SENKANO CHOKUSETUNO SEKININWA NITIROSENYEKI
CHOKUGO DAIYITIJI SEKAI TAISEN YIRAI KOOJOOSITA NIPPONNO KOKUSAITEKI
TIYIO ASSATUSURU KONONIYOOTE TOOASEIHAO TAKUMASHUU SENTOSITA BEIE-
INO HIBOODEARI IMABEIWIWA YUURYOSUBEKI HANSUUJIKU GAWANO SENKYOONI
MIZUKARANOGUO OMOISITTADE ROOGA KAOTEKIWA BOODAINA SEISANRYOKUO
KOJISITE WAGAHONDONI SEMARANTO DAIKIBOKATU TOOSEIARU SENRYAKU KOO-
DOONIYOTTE TOKUNI MINAMI TAINEIYOO HOOMENNO HANKOOWO SITUYOONI
1338
KURIKAESITEIRU IPPOOWAGA TOOA (RUNNING DOTTER) HANKOOWO SITUYOONI
KURIKAESITEIRU IPPOOWAGA TOOA SHOMINZOKUWA NIPPONWO MEISHUNI SORE-
ZORE ARUIWA TAIBEIEI SENSENWO OKONAI ARUIWA DOKURITU SURUNADO DAIT-
OOAKYOOEINOTAME TEISINSITEIRU GENJOODEARU HIGA KESSENDANKAINI
HAITTE WARERAWA DAITOOANO SONBOOWO TOSITE TATAKAINUKANEBA NARANU-
TO NETUBENWO FURUUTA PARA
JIBIN 13 L S13 HOOSOONASI SHOOKOOSHOODEWA KONKAI SENYISEISHN
SEIZOO SEIBENKISOKU OVOBI SENYISEISNN HAIKYUUSNOONI TOOSEIKISOKUNO
 IRYOOKIPPU SEIDO  FUTATUO KAISEI KYUUNI KOOFU JUUNIKARA JISS.
ISURU KOTONINARI NATIHI SONOYOOKOOWO NAPPVOOSITA KOREWASARU ROKUG.
ATUYONNINO KAKUGIDE KETTEISITA SENJIVISEIKATU KANSOKA JISSIVOOKOONO

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.97)
DATE /9/43
12718
ASE NO.
LU.T.W.
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
ITION
Ju77J0a
COPY:
FREQUENCY
EMISSION
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GMT
(PAGE TWO OF FOUR PAGES)
SHOOTENTO MARUMONODEARI SONOTAIYOOWA HITOTU SENJIKIKAKUNO MOOSEIKA
MENORIMONONO MOKA GARATUMUGI ORIMONO ASAORIMONO KAMIORIMONO OYOBI
FUMAKUSEININ NADOWO ITIGENTOOSEISI SONOSHURUI OYOBI KIKAKUO TANJUN-
KASI IWAYURU BENJIKIKAKUO MOOKE DOOJINI FUYOO FUKYUUHINNO SEISANWO
YOKUSEISI KORENIYORI SENJIYISIKIO KOOYOOSI AWASETE SENYISIGENNO SETU
YAKUO MAKARUKOTOTO SITAKOTO FUTATU IRYOOKIPPUNO TENSUUKAISEI ZEN-
KOONO KAISEINI TOMONAI KOHABAORIMONONO TANURINOMONOWA SINKIKAKUNO
NIJOOROKUSHAKUO MOTTE ITTAN SUNAWATI SANJITTENTO SUTAKOTO MATABET-
UNI JUNKINUMONO OYOBI JUNKENSEIHINNO TENSUUGA TANO ERYOONINNI SAD-
AMERARETA TENSUUNO NIBUNNOITITO NATTEITAMONOWO KONKAI DOOTENZ
MIKIAGETAKOTOPARA
JIBIN 13 JMLL 13 HOOSOONASI RANGUUNDOOMEI CHANDORA BOOSUSIWA
KYOGETU NIKUUKUHI HYAKUMANNO INDOJIN TAIBOONO RANGUUN IRIOSITAGA
SANJUUITIHI NIPPON KISHADANTO KAIKEN KISHADANNO SITUMONNI TUGINOGO
TOKU KOTAETA TOI EIKOKUNO SENRYOKU GEKITAITO INDODOKURITUNO SEIJI
KEIZAIJOONI OYOBOSU EIKYOONITUITE KOTAE INDOWA SENZEN EIKOKUNO
KEIZAI SEIJIJOO JUUYOONA TIYIOSIME INDONAKUSITE EIKOKUWA NAITOMADE
KVOKUGEN SARETEITA KONJITAISEN BOPPATUTOTOMONI KORENI KUWAURUNI
INDOWA GUNJIJOOMO KIWAMITE JUUYOONA KITITONATTA MOSIKONO INDOKARA
EIKOKUNO SEIRYOKUO KUTIKU SURUNARABA EIKOKUWA KEIZAITEKI SEIJITEKINI
NATANSURU DAKEDENAKU TOOAKENKARA KANZENNI TEONIKU KOTONINARI SONGUE
IRAN IRAKUNO GUNTAIMO TETANHBA NARANAKUNARU EIKOKUO TAOSUNDONOONI
FUTATUARU MOTIRON JIBUNWA GUNJI SENMONKADEWA NAIBA DAIYITIWA EINONDO

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.97)
MONOLULUToM
OBSERVERO
BION A1 RST 4TO SIGNAL DESCRIPTION TAPE AT 25 WPM  SLIONT FADING
MT
(PAGE THREE OF FOUR PAGES)
JOORIKUTO DAINIWA INDONO DOKURITUDEARU TOI AMERIKA SEIRYOKUNO INDO-
SINSHUTUTO EIBEINO SAIBAINO JAKUTENYIKAN KOTAE DAITITINI MOOSIAGE
RUMOWA AMERIKATO EITONOAIDANIWA OOKINA SEIJITEKI KEKKANGAARU BEIGA
KATTATOKI BEIWAEIKARA RYOODONO BUNKATUO YOOKYUUSURUDE AROOSI EIMOMA-
TA SIKARIDE RIGAIGA ITTISITE INAIKOTOGA SAIDAINA JAKUTENDEAROO TOI
INDOMINSHUUNO JOOTAINITUITE KOTAE INDONO JOOSOOKAIKYUUWA EIKOKUI-
SONGA TUYOITO IWARETEIRUGA SOREWA SENZENNO KOTODEARU GENZAIWA NIPP-
ONWA JIBUNTATITO KYOODOONO TEKINIMUKATTE TATAKATTE IRUKOTOWO JIK-
AKUSITEIRU MATA TOOJOOSHUSMOONO SEIMEIDE INDONITAISURU HOOSINMO AKI-
RAKANI SARETANODE INDONO MINSHUUWA NIPPONNI HIJOONA KITAIO MOTTEIRU
JIBUNWA GUNJISEIKENWO TATETEYUKOOTO KANGAETEIRU INDO KOKUMINGUNWO
MOTTEYUKEBA KYOORYOKUNA SENDENNINARU INDO KOKUMINGUNGA INDONIMUKATTE
YUKUKOTOWA INDONIMOTTOMO OOKINA KANGEKIO ATAERUDEAROO TOI DOKURIT-
UUNDOONI KANSI GANJIITO KIKATONOAIDANI RENRAKUGA ARUTO IWARETEIRUGA
KOTAE JIBUNTO GARJIITONO AIDANI RENRAKUGA ATTAKOTOWA. JIJITUDEARUGA
BUKIOTOTTE TATUKOTONI KANSITEWA GANJIIWA KOJINTEKINIWA HANTAIDEATTA
SIKASIKAREWA WAREWARENI KESSITE HANTAIWASENU ISSENKYUUNYAKE YONJUUNEN
ROKUGATU WARUDADE SAIGONI GANJIITOATATGA SONOTOKIMO KAREWA DOKURI-
TUUNDOOWO KYOORYOKUSITE VUKOO TADASI BUKIO TORUKOTOWO YAMEYOO KANA-
RAZU SIPPAISURUTO KUREGURENO JIBUNNI KATATTAGA UKUMADE BUKIDE SEI-
KOOSITE MISERUTO KOTAERUTO GANJIIWA BUKIOMOTTE TATAKAUKOTOWA SAN
SEIDEKINAI TADASI BOOSUYO KIMIGA SEIKOOSITATOKI ITIBANSAKINI SHUKU.
JIO MOBERUNONA JIBUNGANJIIDE ARUTO SIMIJIMI MATATTAGA PARA

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.95)
T-MA-P-129S-086443
8/9/43
12718
NO.
NONOLULU, T.N.
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
ON.
COPY:
JUP/JUR
FREQUENCY
A-1
RST479
nSSION
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GMT
(PAGE FOUR OF FOUR PAGES)
JIBIN 13 IL 13 MOOSOONASI DAITOOAJIREI KK NANAHI KK GAIMUSHO
KIKAN KISIYIYITIRINTAISIKAN SANJIKAN KK CHUUKAMINKOKU KK
PARA
1408
NIBINYASUMI A  TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
(REMARKS: NOTHING FURTHER SENT ON THIS SKED. AT 142 QNT CALLED
CQ DE JUP/JAP PRESS DE JUQ/JAP HR NW BÇ AT 233 AUG QTH
COPYRIQHT DOMEI 9 REGUN 9/B REGUN....(SPANISH PRESS)

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
NO.12-RSC-
DATE8-13-43
HONOLULU,T.H.
OBSERVER2
COPY:
RECORDING
L/JUP3
FREQUENCY8175
KC. SENDING TO:CQ
ION A-2
RST 585
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION AUTOMATIC ABT 25 WPM NO-QRM
NO QRN
MT
1330 VE PRESS DE JHL/JUP3 HR NW BK AT 2230 AUG 13TH BT
DOME Ø1** KK YOMIONO KAIGAINYUUSU KK DOITUZ*ZK HOONO
IRYOKU KK DONUNO KIOOBUTAIGA HOKORU SINYEI KK SEU***
WII*** YONWUUNIGATA KK JUKIKANHOOWA SORENGAWANO
KYOOINO MATOTONARI SORENHEWA KOREO KK **DENIHOO KK
TOYONDERU KONO SINYEI UKIKANHOOWA SUDENI ZENSENNU**
**** SONORYOKUO HAKKISI SAIKINNO TOOBUSENSENNO
GEKITOONIOITEMO OOKINASENKAO AGENREU KONOHOOWA IDOOGA
DENKOOSEKKATEKI **NO**DE SORENGAWAKARA KK ENKHOO KK
TONAZEKER** MONDAGASONOS INOO DOOZOO NAIYOONADOWA HAPPYOSARETENAI
SARANI SARAN** TORAGATUSESHA YORI HARUKANI MONOSUGOI KK
CHOOTORAGATO SESHA KK **GA KURUSUKU ****S ARAWASITAOYUU KK
BERINGH KK HANOOVAANO BUPPIN KOCKANJO KK DOITUNO
ORANDAKOKKYOONI TIKAI HANOOVA S**** KONKAI SINO CHUUSINTINOTIN
BANWOOKINA HYAKKATENGA FUYOOHINNO KOOKANJOWO HAJIMETA
DOITUTOSITEMO SAISHONO KOKOROMIDEARU MANZU SONOSIKUMIO
MIRUTO DAG*** IPPAN NANDEMO MOTIKOMI KORO***TON
HITUYOOHINTO KOOKANSURU WAKEDE RAJIOTO OKIDOKEI
KOOKANSURUTOKA TU***O HONBAKONO KOOKANWO SURUTOKA SHUJUNO
BUPPINNO KOOKANGA JIYUUDE SIMIN IPPANNO BENGINOTAMENI
OOKINAYAUWARIO HATASIRU SIKAMO KAKUSINAMONONO DOOKANKATINO
KETEINWA SONOMITINO SENMONKAGA TA***I** KOOHINI
BUTUBUTUKOOKANGA DEKIRU **SI** DARU KK KINSENWO MORZUNI
MONOGA ***RU JIDAIGA TOORAISITA KK ***TO KANKEI HA** DOO

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.98)
NO.
_DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
DIRECT
COPY:
RECORDING
OBSERVER
FREQUENCY
KC. SENDING TO:
SION
_RST_SIGNAL DEBCRIPTION
MIT
MEIROONA EGAOWO MISETERU KK BERURINHATU KK KK GOOSHIU ZEGOOG-
UNJINNO TINKETUGAN KK GOOSHUUNO HOKUHENWA SEKINDOOCHOKKANO
SABAKUTINAIDE JUUMINWA HOTONDO V.ORAZU DOORYOOTARU
TITIDEARUGA INAN TUHINYOONO SENKYOKUGA SIRETUK SURNI OYONDE
R
JINKOKUBOOEI
******O TAU GCOSHUUDEWA TAININI
KYOOFUKANKARA KONOTITINI KENGONA BOOIE****O KOOTIKUSIYOOTO
SITERU SAIKINMO ZESNKARANO KIKANSHOOHIGA SOSKISURU GOOSHUU
GOOGUN KK FURUSATO GUNTAI KK REMEI** RA NIOKERU SOOKAIDE
NIHONJMN OYOBI NANBU OOSHUUJINGA SENGO ZOKUZOKUTO
GOOSHUUNI HAIRIKOMANU UTIN NOSHUUHOKUBUNO SABAKUTITNI
GOOSHUU GOOG**ME **INGA NYUUSHOKUSI KK HAIRU IRU** KK
TONDESIO***O KETUGTSITGA SATE SANKOOMADEN**HAO CHOOSASTA
TOKORO MOOSIKOMIJINGA HITORIMOORAZU SEK*OUNO MEIRNO MEI****
KK MAYOU ANNI KK OWATE SIKIHAMO BOOZENJISITUNO TEITATOYUU
KK RISUBONHATU KK KK JBARURATARUNO KAIKU KK MANDA
INKOKUKANTAIGA SE*** SAKUSENWO SUIKOOSEZU JINBURARUTARU
KOONI SHIUKEUSITET ****TC ITENRITORUIRI** BUT**KAN
KYUUHYAKU GOJUKKO OYOBI TOIRABU TANKUGA TAIKAIMIMAWARE ATARA ABURAO
SHOOSITUSITE SIMATTA KONOTAIKAWA JIBURARUTARU KOONO
NANTANUHOOMENNO KORINGUTOONI ARU CHOYUUSOOKARA HAKK**SA MONODE
DESE YENWA MIRUMIRUWUTINI KAINDAISI AT** KEI****SARETE KANSEN**O
TOBIHISE** ANOGERNYINWA MADFUMI* JIBRARUTARU SOOTOKUWA
1353SEKININJOO GENYINNO KYUUMINI **ONATTE **ITE GENJUUNA KEE**GUTT

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.98)
6.8-RSC
DATE/1/4WASHINGTON CASE NO.
MONOLULU,T. H.
OBSERVER71
COPY:
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY_8175
NON A-2 RST 575 SIGNAL DESCRIPTION AUTOMATIC 25 WPM-NO QRM NO QRN
KEYING SPEED VARIABLE.
1331
PRESS DE JHL/JUP3 HR NW BC AT 2230 AUG LLTH DOME1
48 KK FUNAFUTITOO BAKUGEKI DOOJOOKI KK MINATMITAIHIYOO
MARUMARUKITIHATU ERISUSHOTOO FUNAFUTITOO BAKUGEKI DAIMARUHIMENT
********** YORUMARUJU YUKUHITOO EMKURUHITOMO SONOMUNENI
KAYOUMONOWA TADAHITOTU KK SHUKUTEKI BEIKOKU GEKIMETU KK NO
MOYURUYOONA TOOKONDEARU KISHAWA KONOYORU DAIYONJI KOOGEKITAINI
KUWAWARI MOMOTE SOOZETUNA BAKUGEKIO TAIKEN KK UTITESIYAMAN KK
NO DENTOOTEKI KAIGUNDAMASIINI FURERUKOTOGA DAKITA KOREWASONO
DOOJOOKIDEARU KUROGUROTO SABIKORU SEKIRANWUNNO KK TUMORU MIDARU
KUMO KK NAKAO HENTAIRA NUWUYOONI SUSUNDEYUNKU TUKIGA
KUMONIHAITTA TAME KAIMENWA MAKKURADA SINPATUGOMARUJIKAN
TENKOOWASIDAINI YOKUNATTEKITAGA TUKIWA KUMONIOOWARETE
KASAOWOBITERU WAI NIHISOOGA KK POOMAWINOWAI NITOO HIKOOKI SH******
KK SIHENWAOTEWATASITA MIRUTTO KK MARUMARUJI MARUMARUFUN
BAKUGEKISHUURYOO ZENKINBUJI KITONITUKU ZENDANMEICHUU KASAI
SANKASHO KK TO ATTA********** KOOGEKITAIKARANO KITIATE DENPOOWO
BOOJUSITA MONODEARU TUZUITE DAINIJI DAISANJI KOOGEKITAINO
DENPOOWO BOOJUSITAGA IZUREMO MUNENOSUKUTOONA DAISENKADEARU
YAGATE G*ANKENI MAMETUBUNOYOONA TIIAAS IMAGA ARA************
ERISUSHOTOO VIAPPUTOODA WU******* TEKITIDEARU TOTUZEN
SEKIRANWUTNI PAPPATO SENKOOGA HANYEISITA SHUNKANDEWA ATTAGA
********** MORIAGATTA KUMONOKATATIGA MABARUNIOYOONI KUKKIRI
RINKAKUOUKABETA TEKINOTAIKUU BOOGYOHOOKADA MADA HAKKENSARERU

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
PAGE # TWO
12711
HONOLULU T. H.
OBSERVER
71
COPY:
JHL/JUP3
MISSION.
_RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GMT
HAZUMONAINONITO FUSIGINI OMOTAGA TEKIGA DENPATANTIKIDE WAGA
KOOGEKITAINO S INNYUUO TANTISITANODA ROOTONOKOTODATTA SENKOOWA
ITTIEO KANKAKUOWOITE TUZUKU TOKEIOMIRUTO GOAENMANUJI MARUMARUFUN
SUDENI NIJUNIHIDA KUUCHUUDEITIYAO AKAS ITAWAKEDEARU SAKUYAKARA
KYOONOMINTINKAKE SANKAIMO RENZOKUTEKINI TUUBAKUO KUTERUNODAKARA
TEKIGA KYOKUTANNI SINKEIO TOGARASETEIUNOMO MURIWANAI MATARIWASIMAI-
KATO WAGAUMIWAS INO KAGENIOBIETE DAREMOKAREMO MADOROMUKOTOSAE
AO
DEKINAINI TIGAINAINODA WAREWAREWA KUMMONOHAREMD SAGASUTAMENI
TOOHOONI UKISITA KUMOMANI MONORSUGOI KOOKAKU HOODANNO SAKURETUGA
MIEDASITA IYOIKOTEKINI NIKUHAKUSITA NODA HOOKOOGA PATTO
AOJIROIHIO FUKIDASI HANABINOYOONA SAURETUGA YOORAO
KOOKEIWA HITUZENTUDEWA TOOTEI TUKUS IENAI SOOKANTO IOOKA SEISOOTO
IOOKA KIWA GUTTO KOODOWO SAGETAKATO OMOUTO YANOYOONI TEKIKITI
JOOKUUNI TUKYONDEITTA KASSOOROGA NAGARERUYOONI MENIHAIRU KISHAWA
KINCHOONOTAMEKA SITAGASIKIRINI KAWAKU ATODE KIIKOTODAGA TEKINO
KOOKAKUHOONO DANMAKUGA MARUMARUMEETORU CHUUS INNI HARARETEITANODE
KOODOWO MARUMARUNISAGE SAKURETUHOOKANO SITAOKUGUTTE BAKUGETKISTA
TOYUUKOTODA KISHANIWA TEKIDANGA KINOSHUUENWO GURUTTO TORIMAITE
IRUNYOONIOMOETA TUBASAGA SAKURETUKOONI AKAKU HANSHUURIU KK
MIGI TU YOOTORO KK KK CHOTTOMIGI IITU YOOSORO YOOSORO KK
CHOTTOHIDARI IITU YOOSORO YOOSORO KK
1353

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
PAGE-1
ASE NO.SRSC
DATE 8/1/43WASHINGTON CASE NO.1271
ATION MONOLULU, T.H.
OBSERVER_615
COPY:
RECORDINGN
JHL/JUPS
FREQUENCY_817
KC. ENDING TO:
ISSIONA2RST_57SIGNAL DESCRIPTION25 WPM TAPE
GMT
1335 AUG 1TH BC AT 2230
DOMEI 48 TAIGAISSHOO KAIGUNKOOKUUTAIO SIATU KK KK TUTIURAHTA
KK RAICHOOCHUUNO TAIKOKUGAISHOO UITITTO IKYOOWA JUHIGOZEN WAGAU-
MIWASI YOORANNOTI TUTIURA KASUMIGAURA RYOO KAIGUNKOOKUUTAIO SISATU
TAINAISISETU NARABINI SHOONEN HIKOOHEINO HAGESII KUNRENJOOKYOOWO
HAJIME SEIBISAGYOO KAKUSHU HIKOOKUNREN DAIGAKUKOOSEN GAKKOOSHUSSIN
YOBIGAKUSEINO TAKUMASII SHOOJONBURIO MANOSTARINIMITE IMASARE MEIHOO
KAIKUUGUNNO GENZENTARU IYOONIMKYOOTAN MASUMASU SINRAINODOWO FUKAME
YUUKOKU KIKYOOS ITA
49 KK ZAITI KAIKYOO GEKIREIDEN KK BANKOKKUJUUHI ZAIBANKOKKU
CHUUKA SOSOSHOOKAI KK SUBETE SHOONIN KAISHA KK WOHAJIME KAXYK
KAKYOO NANADANTAIDEWA GANJIITAIHO ISSHUUNUNNO KUHI INDODOKURITUNO
KYUUSOKUNARU JITUGENWO KINENSITA INDOWA SANBYAKUYONENNO HISASIKINI
WATARI EIKOKUNO APPAKUTO SAKUSHUOUKE KONOKAN INDOMINSHUUWA SONOD-
OKURITUO TATAKAITORUTAMENO FUDANNO DORYOKUO KEKIZOOKUSIKITARERI
SONO FUTOOFUKUTUNO SEISINWA SUDENI HISASIKU ZENSENKAI KAKUKOKUMINNO
KEIFUKUSURU TOKYRONARUGA SAKUNEN HATIGATUKUHINI ITARI TEKIEKOKUWOA
TOTUMJO BOORYOKUOMOTTE KOKUMINKAIGIHANO SHUYOOJINBUTIO TAIHOSERUK-
EKKA KORENEI FUNBEKISERU INDOMINSHUUWA ZENKOKYUAKUTINI OITE DAIJIY-
IUNDOOWO DAISI DOOJINI DAIKIBONO HANYEKEIUNDOOWO TENKAISURUNI
ITARERI SIKARUNI JIRI ITINENNOAIDA EIKOKUSIFUNO APPAKUWA SUKOSIMO
KOOWOSOOBEZU HANYEITOOSIWA MASUMASU SIRETUKASITUTUARI SAIKINKAKKAGA
INDODOKURITU RENMEISOOSAINI SHUUNINSERU INDOKOKYUMINGUNWO SIKIBI
BURYOKUOMOTTA INDODOKURITUO TATAKAITORANTO SERARERUTUARUTNI TABI
WARERA ZAITAI KAKYOOWA KOKONI SINJINNARU NEIYIO HYOOSURUMONONARI

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.97)
PAGE-2
ENO.G-RSC
NONMONOLULU, ToHO
OBSERVER15
COPY: RECORDING
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY8175
MISSION2
RST567
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION25 WPTAPE
GMT
1345 SOMOSOMO CHUUIN RYOOKOKU KANKEIWA YUUKYUUNO REKISIOYUUSU SIKASITE
INDOJUUKEIKANNO KANKEIWA GENZAI SUDENKI DUNZUSERARE ONERI KONJI
INDOGA DOKURITUO TATAKAITORANTAME SAIGONO DANKAINI TASSENTOSURUNI
ATARI **** JOKUINSEIFU JIKANNO ZENKOKUMINWA INDODOKURITUNO
K
JINSOKUNARU JITUGENNITAISI ZENMENTEKINI KYOORYOKUSURU ETUIO
YUUSURUMONONINSTE MASA ZAITUI KAKYOOMO BIRYOKUNAGARA CHUUSINYORI
KOOENWO OSIMAZARU KAKUGOWOYUUSU GOJINWO INDOKOKUMINGA KAKKANO
D
KENGEMIERU GOSIOONOMOTONI KANARAZUYA SUUHYAKUNENNO SHUKUBOOTARU
DOKURITUO JOOJUSERARU BEKIO FUKAKUSINJI KATU INDODOKURITUNO
135
KYUUSOKUNARU JITUGENWO INOTTE YAMAZARUMONONARI MI HONHOWARI KK AR

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.98)
8/12/43
12718
DATE
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
HONOLULU, T. H.
710
COPY:
PIRECT
JHL/JUPS
CQ
FREQUENCY
KC. SENDING TO:
A-2
SION
KEYING SPEED VARIABLE.
SMT
1333 PRESS DE JHL/JUP3 HR NW BC AT 2230 AUG 12TH BT DOME1 54
KK ZENBINTUZUKI KK GENZAI INDOKO KOKUMIN KAIGIHANO HANYEIUNDOONIWA
FUTATUNO NAGAREGAARU HITOTUWA GANJIIOONO MUTEIKOO SHUGI DEAI
TARWA BURYOKUKAKUME IO HYOOBOOSURU IPPADEARU SIKASITE SAIKINDEWA
GANJIIHANO MONOMO BURYOKU KAKUMEINO HITUYOOWO TUUKANSI ZOKUZOKU
BURYOHUHANI KATMMUITERU IMA WAREWAREWA WAREWAREJISINNO GUNTAI
INDO KOKUMINGUNGA HEN SEISARETA KONOKOKUMINGUNNO SENSEIWA INDO
KOKUNAINO DOOS INOSIKIO KOBUSI WAREWARETO GUNTAIGA HITOTABI
KOKKYOOWO KOETE INDONI N***KISURU TOKIWA VIBUNO GIMANTEKI
SIDOOSHAO NOKOSITE ZENMINSHUUWA KYUUZENTOS ITE KONOSANKANI
ATUMARUDEAROO KK OWARI KK
55 KK SUUKAGETURAINO DAIBAKUGEKI KK RISUBONJUUNIHI RONDONRAIDEN
EIKUUGUNSHOOWA DOITUKUUGUNGA GUITIHIYORU EIHONDONO NANBU OYOBI
SEINANBU ENGANNO TOSIO BAKUGEKISI SISHOOSHA TASUUODASITA MUNE
HAGPYOOSITA ROITARUUSINSHAWA MIGINIKANSI BAKUGEKISARETANOWA
SHUTOSITE PIREMASU BONMASU RYOOSIDE SAIKIN SUUKAGETUKANNI OKERU
EIHONDONITAISURU SAIDAINO BAKUGETKDEATTA TOHOOJITERU
S6 KK INDO DAIKOOZUINO HIGAI KK ISUTANBUURU JUUNIHI NYUUDERII
REIDEN INDO NAIMUCHOOKAN NAMKIUSUWUERUWA JUUNIHINO INDO CHUUOO
RIPPOOGIKAINI OITE SAIKIN INDO SEIHOKUBUO OSOTEA
HIGAIO SANOGOTOKU HAPPYOOSITA KK INDO SEIHOKUBU RAIPUTANASHUU
ADOMERU MERIU WARA FUKINNOMIDEMO KOOZUINOTAME INOTIO USINATTAMONOWA
********* HE IHOOMAIRUNI
SANZENMEINI NOBOTOA SINBUR KIWA YAKU
TASHI SONOTIIKINO NOOSAKUBUTUWA JINDAINA SONGAIOUKE

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
PAGE #2
NO.1RSC
DIRECT
FIONHONOLULUTOHo
COPY:
JHL/JUP3
FREQUENCY17
MISSION
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GMT
TASUUNOKAOKUGA OS INAGASARETA KK
5T KK SEIANO SHOKURYOOFUSOKU SINKOKU KK ISUTANDUURU JUUNIHI
NISIAJIATIHOO NIOKEREU SEIYU NIARABINI SHOKURYOONO FUSOKUWA
EIKOKU CHUUTONOGUNGA SHOOHISURUTAME MASUMASU SINKOKUKA SITERUGA
EJIPUTO SEIFUWA SAIKINSARANI SEKIYUNO TETEIO KYOOKASI YOREGATAME
IPPANNO JIDOOSHANO GOTOKIWA HOTONDO GAITOOKARA SUGATAOKESITE
SIMATTA IPPOO YASAI SONOTA NIKURUINO FUSOKUNIMO KURUS INGERU MATA
SIRIA PARESUTAIN OYOBI SRADEMO SHOKURYOONO FUSOKUWA MASUMASU
SINKOKUKASI KOTONI IRANSEIFUDEWA YAMUOEZU KOKUNAINI OKERU
SHOKURYOONO YUSOOWO ITIJI KINSISITATO IWARERU SEIASHOKUKOWA
EIKOKUNO GISEINIKYOOSARE KYUUHAKUNO ITIOWOTADOTTERU KK HOJSIOWARI
KK
135
AR NM TU DE JHL/JUP3 VA VA

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.96)
NO.NA-P-129-443DATE1/43
12718
WASHINGTON CASE NO.
TION
MONOLULU, T.N.
OBSERVER
COPY:
DIRECT
FREQUENCY13
MISSION
GMT
(PAGE ONE OF TWO PAGES)
132S OQ OQ OQ DE JUP/JUQ
1332 VE VE VE PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 223 AUG 1TH BT
BOMEI DAINONYEI HAPPYOO KK HATIGATUKYUUNI KK HITOTU TEIKOKUKAIGUN
KUTIKUTAIWA HATIGATU ROKUMIYORU KORONBANGARA TOONO SEIHOO KAIMENNIO-
ITE MIKOOKI MARABINI GYORAITEITO KYOODOOSERU TEKI SUIRAISENTAITO
KOOSENSI KUTIKUKAN ISSEKIO GEKITINSERI MIGI SENTOONIOITE WAGAHOOMOMA-
TA KUTIKUKAN ISSEKITINBOTU TANOISSEKI TAIHASERI FUTATU TEIKOKUKAIGUN
SENTOOKITAIWA HATIGATUROKUHI SHOOTORANDO TOONI RAISHUUSERU TEKISENTO-
OKI JUUROKKIO YOOGEKISI SONOJUUGOKIO BEKITUISERI MIGI KUUSENNIOKERU
WAGANOONO SONGAIYIKKI MITTU TEIKOKUKAIGUN KOOKUUBUTAIWA HATIGATUROKU-
NI RENDOBAKOOWO KOOGEKISI SANOSENVAO ETARI GEKITIN CHUUGATA YUSOOSEN
NISEKIKGATTAYUSOOSEN ISSEKI JOORIKUYOO SHUUTEIYAKU MASSEKIEBEKIHA
CHUGATA YUSOOSEN ISSEKI KAIJOOTORAKKU ISSEKI GEKITUI SENTOOKI GOK-
IYIJOO MIGIKOOGEKINI SAISI WAGAMOO MIKIKAN IKKI PARA
SHOKURYJOJIKYUUTAISENO KAKURITU SURUTAME NOORINSHOODEWA KANANKETTEINO
OOKVIU ZOOSANTAISAKUNI MIKITUZUKI MOKKA KONPONTEKI ZOOSANKEIKAKUO
SUSUMETEARUGA TOKUNIUONSHUU MAKITUKENO MUGIRUI ZOOSANNI TADAINO KIT-
AIOKAKE KOREGA KANSUINMANORWO KISURUTAME ZENKOKU DOOFUKENNO KAKAR
IKANNO SNOOSUSI KUUJUURYOONI NOO KAIGISITUNI OIUGIZOOSAN
SMOOREI KYOOGIKAIO KAISA*SITA DAIYITIMIWA MEKITOO YAMAZAKI NOOSNOONO
KUNJINITUGI KYOOGINI NAITTAGA ORINS MONNENA NYAKU NATIJ
INANAAN SOKUSCHOOBU KK KAKUDAISI KORENITAI SURU KAKETFUKENNO
SAUIUKEMENSEKI OYOBI SEISAN MOYOONOJARIATEO OKONTOTOMONI 
(VERY BAD FADING ) IPPOG WYOOSNUN TOTI*RYOOGA KANSEISURN

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.95)
RECORDING
COPY:
TION
DMISSION
BAD FADING - COMPLETELY OUT AT TIMES.
GMT
(PAGE TWO OF TWO PAGES)
YAKU GOMANGOOBUNI TAISITEWA HARU BAREINO SAKUO REIKOO SESIME-
RU KOTONINATTA PARA
NANKINDOOMEI SINCMUUKATAISI UERUMANSIWA MATIHIHANNAISI AGA
DOOT(FADE COMPLETELY OUT)HOONITISURU EARU
KENANTO NATTEITA SMANMAINO BUSBUKKATAISAKUO SHORISUBEKU SINCHOO
KOORYOCMUDE ATTAGA SHANI TAIZAICHUUNO OOSHUSEKIWA JITNO KINKYUU-
SEINI KANGAMI KYUUNI GOGOUJIYORI OOKOOKANNIO ANHAINIORU
SAISHONO RINJISAIKOO KOKUBOZGIO SHOOSHUU HITOTU MENSI MENPU*AGE
ZANKOOJOOREI FUTATU KAI (FADED OUT) GITEI SOKUJITU KOOFU
JISSISITA JOOREINO KOSSITO SARUNOWS  KYOODANKOOSI SEIFUNIOI-
TE KORA HENZAIBUSSINO TEKISRU FNYOOWOHA ** SHOOGYOO *OOSEI
KORENI ATARASIME SINARAIHOOHOOWA CHUUOO CHOBIGINKOONO TOKUBETU
TEIH OVOBI KINKAIOMOKE KORENATETE TUUKANO BOOCHOOWOSAKERU
TENDEARI MENSIFUNO KYOOSIKAIAGEWA KOKUFUNO SEIJIRYOKUNO MATUDOOWO
KYOORYOKUNI SIKOO SARERUMONOTO MIRARE SHANHAISOKAI KAISHUUTO SJITEK
SAINENSEINI FUTUSURU KEIZATEKI SAIHENSEIWA IYOIYO SUISN SARERMONO
TO KITAIMARERUANRI
TOGIV OCANM MZTNV GOPMG ITINLN BUBIN VDECZ EDQNG ALYNA IZQAL
GUOJE MRIN THLAG DEVNO HUELL MAAN CUMPE UVIJA WVIJX NTHZ
GNABS NXEGY ZWOZE BNISL AB RPT APT (REPEATED CODE GROUPS)
1390 AR  DE JUP/JU YA

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
auinsd
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREO KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
KC
NAT
FREQ KC
GMT
R4T-
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
POOR TAPE
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYET:
GMT:
P125 T
A26 NENYORK LAPAZ 1
LP156/14 PRE3S PERI I0  TOTALC S51/S20 STP RAS
ROKS TOTALCK CTF
ZPZ ZP 126 1 /AAC AS. 11
22
APII2 LC VANUEL JIENEZ AICA L COCCT UNALL
CFL
27 22 12330T ZAP
SDZ XQ BYXQ CFU RX 1/2C 1RPT 13
PSV A51 SALTA R10 2
BR174/15 PAD1A D ADDS FTA LG0 IA PACA AHA
62 RIODE JANEIRO STOP STP  L JOSAIA ADIA
STOP RD CK11
XQ HR ZAN IF ALSC ZUI CF FOR X
( )
A121 A ORSARARORIDA 17
IT476LC RACAZZO IACONO CIACOLO ALLARDO 49 UNIDELD
UNEXIST NUMBER STOP JELD ANGEL ALLARDO SAE HU DER SII
AUA 4B6 4N
20 GNT ALL STNS ZNN WE CONSIDER QRX 12
XQ SANGBAI VIA RU
GMT
BA CMG
10
6
TR BA413 BA 51/4X 15 2155 NLT OSES ERGOZE AHARGU07 HABANA
OFREZCO BADANA GRISCHAMPAGNE SUMUESTRA 10-1/2 9-1/2 8-1/2
TO UNIT:

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
"ARYLAND
971
CALL
FREQ KC
FKC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
RST45-
WPM
AUT
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
INDEXED BY.
ANALYST:
GMT:
CABRAFORRO UESTA 4TALDOCET
PRINERA 250/O SECUNDA 10-0/0 A AA A 1-1
/17 CENTS PIE CIF AALL/ TTALSRES
DIAS CONTROLCERTIFO PAAUO
BA414TAYY
CUNTAALVS VLLARS
MINOS NO CONVIENE IA HELL TY AN LA CREIT JUISSA
PARA TODO A OUBRAS LI PIAR HULSTRA CUCNTA CON LOTA PLATA
JACQUE YSSAHARZALCH
IGD X SHAI VIA RI 2 ALL TNS Z E SIR RX 1T
IT543 BA 25 15 2154 LT P24.58
LUISA VERNER CONIZZETTI19 MILANO
STO BENE AUCURI ANNIVERSARIO LILLA AGRACCIO TCNERAMENTE
TUTTI TELECRAFATC BAIRES TUCUMAN S72 STATO SALUTE ET NECESSITA
2
NICOLA VERNER
C
BQ OUR SVC DQ IT476 READ CKT 3RLNR A21 OK
544 DA 16 15 2238 LC RP22.13 ALFRED0 CABLA
ARENZANG
10
MIONON EBBE ORE 2 BALBINA ANNA RAZIA TUTTO BENISSIO ABBRACCI
NARICE
6
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
ARYLAND
57Ps
CALL
FREQ KC
905kc
NAT
T
FREQ KC
GMT
2
FAD
RST5-
WAGT
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN.
INDICATORS:
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
2
AAAA2J2 BA 
243T SITN LR 513/21 LS 4/0:1   X T
XSPVR TOKIC VIA A
25 T U  2
TJ
1
1256 T:
IT543 A 25 15 2154 ILT
RF24.53 LUISA VERHER DO.12ZLTT1 11LANC
STO BENE AUGURI ANNIVERDARIO LILLA ABBRACCIO TLNCRAMLNTE TUTTI
TELEGRAFATE CAIREO TUCULAN 672 STATO JALUTE ET NECLSSITA
CICOLA VERNER
BQ OUR SVC NY IT476 READ CCT SRLNR A2,1 OK
IT 544 BA 16 16 15 2238 LC RP22.13 ALFREDO ABBA ARENZANC
B
MIGNON  EBB: ORE 2
JAINA ANNA RAZIA TUTTO IENISSING
( )
ABBRACCI
2
NARICE
IT545 BA 27 15 2335 NLT RAUL CORDA CORSOITALIA 23 MILANO
INVICRACION TELECRAFIO CONSUL: O PERL ISO DESEMDARCO
SECUN RECLAMENTO PUEDES CONSEGUIR TALSIEN PASAPORTE PASAPORTE
10
TELEGRAFIAME CI TODO ARRECLADO STOP CONO ESTA LADRE ABRAZOS
KUPPENHEIL
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
PILE
181
CALL
FREQ KC
ARYLA
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
780kC
NAT
Tπ
FREQ KC
GMT
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYET:
GMT:
IT 546 BA 25 15 2312 NLT F14.7
VIOLETTA TELONI
TREIA ACCRATA
CLAUDIO PARTECIPA SHNA C I AT JOHCLLINA AHAGRAZIA
PARTO OTTILO PESO QUATTRO CHILI ICICN PUPA LHISSINO
PENSIALOTI ACIA OTI AFF TTO IIFIITO
342T:
XXXX23X1
101
LTR ERNER
EXPEDITEUR 10123/11 WC
QUE NECESITA CUSTAVO A A2OU
RENC ARONI
AS 1 BA 11 15 12.2 LC
AUGUSTE FOLLY
41 AVENUEFRANCE LAUSANNE
MARIE HIER 14 BAISERS
RAYNALD
A3 2 SANJOSEMISIONES 25 15 135J NLT
MORIAUCARTIER CVE
M
ETANT RETENU PAR RECOLTE MADAUE MONTOLLIN EST PARTIE
10
BUENOS AIRES ACTIVER DEMARCHES POUR OBTENIR AUTORISATION
TO UNIT:

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.92)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTIONTAKEN:
FILE
FILE
101
CALL
FREQ KC
HARYLAT
Jps
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
705jkc
TT
FAB6
RST
AAM
GMT
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
JEAN LRIAUD
AS 3 BA 24 1 1743 LT
LAURICE BLOCH DOUBS 7 LACHAUXLCFCHS
TRES PEINES TERRICLE NOUVELLE SOL ES IE TOUT COCUR
AVEC VOUS SLOUS .T VOUS
AO O AFFECTUDUSLICT
AS 4 HENDOZA 25 15 1638 ILT
HADELEINE ARTIN UIT RUE HO LVILL V
AFFECTUEUSES LICITATI
VNNT X TANTS
SPECIALEUCNT LYO ULL TP VE TL TUSIU
BEL HIVER DOUX  ITIES
RODERT OYE
XQ GVE 42JGH.T 42: T ZAP A35 RX 1. T
BA409 BA 225 15 NLT SCHROLDER BRO• 1 CAC4NY
( )
MERCADEA MINERVINI YA EMARCADA DOCUNENTACION YA TLRMINA
5
BAJO LICENCIA 15581--B CONTESTEN CNSEGUIDA SI DLSENBARCO OZA 1
2
ENVNO
ENRIQUE IVALDI 4TH FICS AT FIG TASDA HIFEN
OGP LTR O
RPTN BA41 PRESSDENCIAROQUESAEZPENA 11 15
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
181
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
ARYLANT
CALL
FREQ KC
FROOKC
NAT
π
FREQ KC
GMT
2FAG年
EMN.
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
TAPO POOR  AY SPOT
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
18T.
165 L ENERAL ANTONIC PAJAA TIA
JASHINSTON
FELICITACIONES CARIHOSAVENT
U
LUIS ARA 
1
BA411 A 25 15 25 LT ELT TRA 3 BA1STRCT YK
SELICMANN ILL SHIP IHIATELY WHOLE LOT 1 WATCHES
PLEASE OPEN ATONCE CAL CREDITLETTR IRE HICH
BANK HERE
AXPC ELL190
BA412 LIMA 11 1 1 VI: T/AI
LC NAJIB LAHOUD CARACAS
FELIZ SIA TIAARY HEOARINH
( )
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.94)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
CALIF.
744
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
FREQKC
8175
FREO KC
2…1
FREQ KC
3
45*
20
FADE
RST
wっ
L DESCRIPTION
BAD FADE
IMN
GRIFFIN
GMT
1330
CQ DE JVJ/JUP3 PRESS DE JHL/JUP3 HR NW BC AT 223 AUG 13TH
BI
DOMEI 41 (YOMIMONO KAIGAINYUUSA) (DOIT) **ENKIHOONO IRYOKU
(DOITUNO UNKOOBUTAIGA HOKORU SINYEI) ESU EMU JII YONJUUNI**
(JUUK*** HO****RENGAWANO KYOOINO MAT*****(UNREADABLE)
NANODE SORENGAWAKARA (DENKIHOO) TONAZUKERARETA MONODAGASON-
OSEINOO KOOZOO NAIYOONADOWA HAPPYOOSARETENAI SARANI SAIKIN
TORAGATASENSHA YORI HARUKANI MONOSUGOI (CHOOTORAGATA SENSHA)
GA KUURUSUKU SENSENNI SUGATAO ARAWASITATOYUU (BERURINHATU)
(HANOOVANO HUPPIN MOOKANJO) DOITUNO ORANDAKOKKYOONI TIKAI
HANOOVAA SIDEWA KONKAI SI*O CHUUSINTINOITIBANWOOKINA HYAKKA-
TRENGA FUYOOHINNO KOOKANJOWO HAJIMETA LOITUTOSITEMO SAISHONO
KOKOROMIDEARU MAZU SONOSIKUMIO NIRUTO KAGUOREO TANNO **UURU
WAKEDE RAJIOTO OKIDOKEITO KOOKANSURUTOKA TUKUETO HONBAKONO
KOOKANWO SURUTOKA SHUJUNO BUPPINNO KOKANGA JIYUUDE SIMIM
s
*WANNO **** TAMENI OOKINAYAKUWARIO HATASITERU SIKAMO
2
3
KAKUSINAMONONO KOOKANKATINO KETTEINIWA SONOMITINO SERMONKAGA
TATIAI KOOHEINI BUTUBUTUKOOKANGA DEKIRU SIKUMINDEARU (KIN-
6
7
SENWO MOTA SINAMONOGA TENIHAIRU WEI IAIGA OORAISITA *
0
KANK ISHA ITIDOO MEIROONA EGAOWA MISETERU (BERURINHATI)
to
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WOPKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT:
GMT:
(OO**HU** ZAIGOOGUNJINNO TINKETUGIAN) GOOSHUUNO HOKUHENATA
SEKIDOONIHOKKANO SABAKUTITAIDE JUUMINWA HOTONDOWORAZU KOO-
RY****SEINANTAIHEIYOONO
SENKYOKUGA SIRETUKASURUNI OY-
ONDE JIKOKUBZOEINI SENSENKYOOKYOO TARU GOOSHUUDEWA TAINITI
KYOOFUKANKARA NEONOTITAINI KE NGONA BOOEISENWO UOOTIKUSIYOOTO
SITERU SAIKINMO ZENSENKARANO KIKANSHOOHEIGA SOSIKISURU MEOO-
SHUU GOOGUN (FURUSATO GUNTAI) REMEIWA KANBERA NIOKERU SOO-
KAIDE NIHODJIN OYOBI NANBU OOSHUUJINGA **G **ZOKUZWN******
HETUNI HAIRIKOMANU UTIN**OOSHUUHOKUBANO SABAKUTITAINI GOOSHUU
GOOG*NRENME* INGA NYUUSHOKUSI (HAIRU UERU) TOND**SEIO SIKU-
BESITO KETUGTSITAGA SATE SANKOOMALENI KIBOOSHAO CHOOSASITA
TOKORO MOOSIKOMIJINGA HITORIMOORAZU SEKKAKUNO MEIANMO MEI-
ANNI (MAYOU ANNAI) OWATTE SIKAISHAMO BOOZENJISITUNO TEIDEATTA-
TOYUU (RISUBONHATU) (JIBURURATARUNO DAIKA) MADA EIKOKUKANTAI-
GA SITIRIA SAKUSENWO SUIKOOSEZU JIBU NIRUTAU TTOONI SHUUKETU-
5
SUTETAARAHINOKOTO **ITTORETIRI BENJINABURANO KAN KKEUUHYAKU
2
3
GOOUKKO ODAOBI TATINARABU TANKUGA TAIKANIMIMAWARE ATARAABURAO
4
5
6
SHOOSITUSITE SIMATTA KONOTAIKAWA JIBURARUTARU KOONO NANTAN-
7
8
HOOMENTO KORINGUTOONI ARU CHOYUUSOOKARA HAKKASITA MONODE KA-
9
0
ENS KAENWA MIRUMIRUWUTINI KAKUDAISI TASUU KEIRYUUSARETETA
KANSENNIMO TOBIHISITA TAIKANO GENYINWA MADTFUMEIDE JIBURARU-
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788764

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.93)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKFN
ALE
ICALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OAS
FREQ KC
NAT
FREOK
rT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
L DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GM I
TARU SOOTOKUWA SEKININJOO GENYINNO KYUUMEINI YAKKITONATTE
IRUGA ITIBUDEWA GENJUUNA KEIKAIOKUGUTTE GERIRATAIGA GATUYAKU-
SITA KEKKADEWA NAIKATOMITERU (HONHIOWARI) AR
1335
NM TU DE JHL/ JUP3 VA
s
1
2
9
5
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 106

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FREQ KC
ALIF.
744
WORKS:
CALL
OBS
FREQKC
CALL
9430
NAT.
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ
2
575
25
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
BY:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYET:
GMT:
1136
CQ DE JUO/JAU2 PRESS DE JUO/JAU2 HR NW BC AT 203 AUG 13TH
BI
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 25 MANILA 13/8 IMI COPYRIGHT DOMEI 25 MANILA
13/8 DISCLOSED LEON GUINTO RPT LEON GUINTO MAYOR MANILA AND
SEVENTEEN MEMBERS HIS PARTY WHO RECENTLY RETURNED FROM INSP-
ECTION TOUR JAPAN SCHEDULED START 16/8 LECTURE TOUR CENTRAL
A
LUZON ISLAND ENDING ENRLY PART SEPTEMBER UNDER SPONSORSHIP
KALIBAPI STOP SAID LECTURE PARTY WILL DIVIDED SEVEN GROUPS
AND WILL STRESS THEIR DETERMINATION WORK FOR INDEPENDENCE
WELLS GIVE PUBLIC TRUE PICTURE WARTIME CONDITIONS JAPAN STOP
UNDERSTOOD FIRST SPECH WILL DELIVERE 17/8 MALOLOS RPT MALOLOS
IN BULACAN RPT BULACAN PROVINCE PARA
26 MANILA 13/8 LML 26 MANILA 13/8 DOCTOR JOSEP LAUREL PRESI-
DENT PREPARATORY COMMISSION PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE SMORNING
CONFORRED WITH GOVERNORS CENTRAL LUZON PROVINCES IN HIS CAP-
ACITY AS COMMISSIONER INTERIOR STOP THOUGH NO ANNOUNCEMENT
2
3
MADE LAUREL BELIEVED DISCUSSED VARIOUS ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
4
5
WITH PROVINCIAL EXECUTIVES STOP CONFEREES INCLUDED GOVERNORS
6
7
BATAAN NUEVAECIJA BULACAN RIZAL TARLAC LANGASINAN STOP CON-
8
9
FORONCE PLACETOOK LAURELS OFFICE DEPARTMENT INTERIOR SITUAT-
10
ED NATIONAL ASSEMBLY BUILDING STOP DESPITE PRESSING DUTIES
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17764

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.95)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKFN
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WRKS
ons
AL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
T1
FREOKC
GMT
FADE
RST
WP
AL DESCRIPTION
IMN
GRIFFIN
GMT
PREPARING PHILIPPINE CONSTITUTION LAUREL FINDS TIME ATTEND
AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT INTERIOR INDICATING HIS REGAINED COMPLETE
STRENGTH FOLLOWING LONG HOSPITAL CONFINEMENT STOR LEARNED
LAURELS CALLED MEETING DRAFTING COMMITTEE PREPARATORY COM-
MISSION FOR 14/8 NORDER PUT FINISHING TOUCHES PHILIPPINE OR-
GANIC LAW PARA
27 NANKING 13/8 PRESIDENT WANG CHINGWEI WHO SHANGHAIWISE AT-
TENDING VARIOUS ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS FOLLOWING RETURN SHANG-
HAI INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENT NATIONAL GOVERNMENTWARD RETURNED
HERE SAFTERNOON ANNOUNCED BY MINISTRY PUBLICITY SEVENING
PARA
28 TOKYO 13/8 ERNST WOERMANN NEW GERMAN AMBASSADOR NANKING-
WARD WHO ARRIVED HERE RECENTLY SAFTERNOON ONCALLED FORNMIN-
ISTER MAMORU SHIGEMITSU DISCUSSED INTERNATIONAL SITUATION
EASTASIATIC PROBLEMS MOREN ONE HOUR PARA
( )
s
29 MACASSAR 13/8 1MI 29 MACASSAR 13/8 INDONESIANS CELEBES-
1
2
WISE UNONLY SHOWING GRATITUDE OVER LARGE QUANTITY COTTON
3
HARVESTED UNDER GUIDANCE JAPANESE BUT ALSO OVER FACT THEY
5
ALLOWED ENGAGE IN HANDSPINNING AND HANDWEAVING COTTON ARTICLES
STOP VIEW SUCCESSFUL HARVEST NATIVE PLANTERS DEEPLY GRATEFUL
10
FOR JAPANESE TECHNIQUE IN COTTON CULTIVATION STOP FOLLOWING
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT NO: 

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
AGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
INDEXLD BY
ANALYOT:
GRIFFIN
GMT:
PERMISSION THATLL ENABLE NATIVE INDONESIANS WEAVE DYE THEIR
OWN ARTICLES NATIVE CRAFTSMEN ARE BEINGING OUT THEIR WEAVING
IMPLEMENTS AND BUSILY WEAVING THEIR OWN CLOTHING STOP COMPEN-
TENT CIVIL ADMINISTRATOR TODAY AFTER INSPECTING LARGE QUANT-
ITY NATIVEPRODUCED COTTON ARTICLES DECLARED WERE ENCOURAGING
OLD METHOD HAND SPINNING VEAVING AMONG NATIVES SOTHAT THEY
MAY HAVE ENOUGH COTTON CLOTH FOR THEIR OWN USE AND ALSO EN-
ABLE THEM EARN FAIR INCOME STOP ADDED THUS NATIVES TRADITION-
A
AL EUSTOM BEING MET FUVORABLY STOP THEYRE TURNING OUT MANY
EXCELLENT ARTICLESAND DYEING CLOTH WITH DYES OBTAINED FROM
TROPICAL PLANTS STOP MOSTLY THIS WORK CONDUCTED AS SUBSIDIARY
JOB AMONG FARMERS ENGAGED IN FOODSTUFF PRODUCTION AND TOTAL
ND
OUTPUT ISLASTWISE EXPECTED REACH ENORMOUS FIGURE END BI
FURUNO DOMEI AR
( )
NM TU DE JUO/JAU2 VA
s
(END INTERCEPT)
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE -- CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY  INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1784

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
(18318)
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
OALIF.
FREQ KC
CALL
1285
NAT
ME-PX FRE8RE
TT
GMT
565
25m
FADE
FMN
DESCRIPTION
AUTO.
ANALYST
T-385
(DOTTER)
CQ CQ CQ DE JUP/JUQ
13PRESS DE JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ
HRNW BC AT 1 1 1 1 1 DOME1B3 TOKYO
HR NW 1 12/8 TIMES EDITORS FIHST COLON NIPPON TINES UNDER CAPTION
QUOTE NANKINGS MASTERLY STROKE UNQUOTE EDITORSALLY SAID QUOTE
STOUTAED BY NATIONAL GOVERN ENT CHINA FREE DAYS AGO TO FORCE
SPECULATORS SHANGHAIWISE SELL THFIR EXTENSIVE HOARDINGS COTTON
YARNS TEXTILES GOVERN ENTWARD AYE NOTABLE DEVELOPEMENT STOP BENEF
ICIAL EFFECTS THIS MOVE WILL FAIR REACHING UNQUOTE STOP ADDED QUOT
OBVIOUSLY BY TAKING ENTIRE STOCK COTTON YARNS TEXTILES OUT HANDS
PRIVIATE SPECULATORS NANKING GOVERNMENT WILL ABLE CURB INFLATION
DRASTICALLY AND EASE LIVLIHOBLE MASSES OF PEOPLE STOP BUT EFFECS-
WILL FELT UN
BY PEOPLE NEIGHBORHOOD SHANGHAI AND UNABLY RESPEC
COTTON GOODS STOP GOVERNMENT FOR INSTANCE ABLE DISTRIBUTE COTTON
GOODS AMONG AGRICULTURAL POPULACE IN INTERIOR AYE MOVE WHEREFORE
PRIVATE DEALERS WOULD HAD NEITHER MEANS NOR INCLINATION UNQUOTE
YY MORE YY PARA 24 ADD ITEM 23 TIMES EDITORIAL SECTOND LAST COLON
s
QUOTE BUT GOVERNMENT THROUGH ITS ACTION WILL ABLE RENDER BENEFITED
2
AGRICULTURALISTS THEIR WELLBEING ENHANCED THAT EXTENT BETTER ABLE
3
MORE WILLING SEND INCREASED AMOUNT FOODSTUFFS SHANGHAI MEDROPOLIT
N AREAWARD STOP EFFECT WILL BE EXPAND BENEFITS AREAS BEYOND SMANG
HAI AND TO PHASES LIVING WHEREAT FIRST GLANCE WOULD SEEM HAVE
10
LITTLE CONNECTION WITN COTTON GOODS UNQUOTE STOP ADDED QUOTE BY
THUS HELPING DOWNKEEP COST LIVING SHANGHAIWISE WHILE SAMETIME
TO UNITI
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATO NO: 1

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
(12718)
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALIP.
CALL
FREQKC
FREQRO
17085
NAT.
TT
FREOHO
5w25
GMT
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
AUTO.
OY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT.
T-395
GMT:
**CELERATIONG REHABILITATION AGRICULTURAL POPULATION NATIONAL
GOVERNMENT WILL MATERIALLY ENHANCEING STABILITY NATION STOP INCIDE
NTIALLY TWILL ABDING DESERVEDLY IVSE OWN PRESTIGE POWER ETCONFIDENC
E WHEREWIH TIS REGARDED BY ITS OWN CITIES AND BY REST WORLD STOP
ALL IN ALL CONPULSORY PURCHASE COTTON YARNS TEXTILES MASTERLY
STROKE OF PRACTICAL STATESMANSHIP UNQUOTE PARA 25 STOBKHOLD 11/8
CHURCHILL ACOMPANIED WIFE DAUGHTER ALLEN BROOKE CHIEF STAFF ADMIRAL
DUDDLEY POUND ADMIRAL FLEET MARSHAL CHARLES PORTAL CHIEF AIR STAFF
VICEARIRAL LEWIS MOUNTBATTEN CHIEF COMBINED OPERATIONS LORD LEATHE
S MINISTER TRANSPORT ARRIVED CANADAWIS E ORDER MEET ROOSEVELT
FOR SHIXTH TIME ACCORDING REUNIR DESIPATCH EXQUEBEC STOP ADDED
DESPITE STRONG ANGLOAMERICAN OPINION FAVORSNG PRESSENCE ** AT MEE
ING TIS UNXPECTED SOVLEADER WILL PRESSENT STOP ACCORDING LONDON
REUTER REPORT LIKELY STALIN UNWILL PARTICIPATE STOP OUTPOINTED
ROOSEVELT PRESS CONFERENCEWISE DECLARED SALIN UNPILL ATTEND THOUGN
s
1
CHURCHILL WOULD VERY HAPPY IF SOVLEADER WOULD PRESSENT STOP GENER
2
3
ALLY OPINIATE STALINS CONTINUOUS REFUSAL ATTEND MEETING INCLUDIN
4
5
CASABLANCA WASHINGTON WELLS STIME DESPITE ANGLOAMERICA WISMES IN-
6
7
DICATE GAPS BETWEEN SOY
AND BRITIANWISE CONCERNING POLITICAL
8
9
MILITARY PLANS EUROPEIS BETWEEN ING SHARPER AS WAR DEVELOPS
10
PARA 26 LISBON 11/B OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT EXWASMINGTON SAID
FORTHCOMING MEETING BETWEEN ROOSEVELT AND CHURCHILL WILL MEL
TO UNIT: CONTINUE - CLOF - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788704

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.96)
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
(92919)
FREQ KC
LIF
FREQ KC
FRE63065
NAT
PX.FR
FADE
55
25
DESCRIPTION
AUTO.
1-385
**N
CANA
SOIL STOP MEANWHILE ROOSEVELT TODAY HELD CONFERENCE
WITH MEMBERS PACIFIC WAR COUNCIL PARA
27 EUROPEAN WAR ROUNDUP
LISBON 11/B WAR ROUNDUP FIRST COLON BITTER FIGHTING CONTINUED UN
ABATED ALONG NORTHERN COAST SICILY ETCENTRAL SECTIOR SAME FRONT
WHERE ANGLOAMERICANS SUFFERING HEAVILY IN BOTH MEN ETMATERIALS
STOP BERLIN REPORTS SAID GERMAN BATTLEPLANES OUTCARRIED SURPRISE
RAID AREA SENAGLAT SENAGATA EARLY HOURS
TUESDAY AGAINST ANGLO-
AMERICAN TRANSPORTS LANDING TROOPS SERIOUSLY DAMAGING THREE FREIGHT
ERS TOTALING SEVERTEEN THOUSAND TONS WHILE VEHICLES PUT ASHORE DES
TROYED TOGETHER WITH THIRD CREWS STOP GERMAN COMMUNIQUE MEANWHILE
STATED DURING NIGHTRAIDS
S MESSINA** TRANSPORT FLEET OFF AUGUSTA
AND SYRACUSE GERMAN BOMBERS DESTROYED FOUR FREIGHTERS TOTALING
TWENTY ONE THOUSAND TONS WHILE SEVEN OTHER LARGE SHIPS INCLUDING
ONE MANOFWAR HEAVILY DAMAGED YY MORE YY PARA
28 ADD ITEM
27 WAR ROUNDUP SECOND COLLON CONTINUED AT DAYLIGHT GERMAN BATTLE
s
PLANES IN SURPRISE ATTACK RAIDED NORTHERN ETSOUTHEASTERN COASTS
2
3
SICKLY CAMAGING ONE DESTROYER FOUR TRANSPORTS ETALALGE NUMBER LAND-
ING BOATS STOP OTHERSHAND ALLIEDCOMMUNIQUE REVEALED ITALIAN TOR
PEDOBOATS ATTACKING ANTIAXIS CONVOY IN SICIRIAN WATERS SCORED DIREG
HITS ON ONE LIGHT CRUISER AND TWO STEAMERS OF MEDIUM TONNAGE ABLE
10
NEIT BOMBERS SHUCCESSFULLY RAIDED HARBOR PABERMO ETSYRACUSE
STOP BERMANS COMMUNIQUE ON EASTERN SOVFRONT STATED THERE ONLY
TO UNITI
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATO NG 

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
CALL
FREQKC
13065
NAT
FREQ KC
MEL-PX
TT
FREO KO
565
25
GMT
FADE
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
AUTO.
INDICATORS:
BY:
T-385
INDFXED RY
ANALYBT:
GMT:
A SOVTHRUSTS ON KUBAN BRIDGEHEAD ETMIUS SECTOR WHILE HEAVY FLUCT
UATING FIGHTING PREVENTED BILGOROD AREA WHERE SOVIETS BACKTHROWN
WITH CONSIDERABLE LOSSES STOP CONTINUED WEST OREL UMEROUS SOVIET
ATTACKS LIKEWISE COLLAPSED WHILE SOUTH ETSOUTHWEST VYAZMA SOVIETS
CONTINUED VAIN ATTEMPTS BREAK GERMAN DEFENSE LINES YY MORE YY
PARA 29 ADD ITEM 28 WAR ROUNDUP LAST COLON ADDED THREEFOUREIGHT
SOV
DESTROYED YESTERDAYED YESTERD YESTER
ESTRO DESTROYVAN
KS DESTR ***ELEVENTH ATTACKED MILITARY TARGETS IN CENTRAL ENGL
AND WITH GOOD EFFECT STOP BERLIN INBORMATION REPORTED THAT BADLY
DAMAGED BRITISH CRUISER OF QUOTE FIJU FIJI UNQUOTE CLASS ENTER
ED GIBRALTAR HARBOR YESTERDAY ACCORDING REPORTS EXLARINEA STOP
ACCORDING REPORTS BRITISH CRUISER STEAMED INTO PORT VERY SLOWLY
BEARING SIGNS OF HEAVY DAMAGE STOP ROME REPORTS DISCLOSED ITALYN
BATTLESHIP QUOTE LITTORI LITTORIO UNQUOTE RENAMED QUOTE ITALIA
ITALIA UNQU OTE END
FURUNO
DOMEI
AR NM TU DE
JUP/JUQ
SK E E SK.
1
2
212 GMT.
3
4
3
6
7
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788764

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS.
ANACALTF.3
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
418 CQ DE JUP/JUQ HR BC AT 13OD AUG 12TH BT COPYRIGHT DOMEI 9 EAST EN
MIERN MENGCHIANG FRONT 11/8 IMPERIAL FORCES NOW HAVE VIRTUALLY
COMPLETED RING AROUNG SINOCOMMUNIST TROOPS IN MOUNTAINOUS REGIONS
MTONS MENGCHIANG AREA STOP ENEMY S RETRIAT NOW OFFCUT WITH JAPANESE
UNITS BLOCKING ALL POSSIBLE FLIGHT ROUTES ENEMY STOP ADVANCSNG
NTDVANCING NORTHWARD EXUNDISCLOSED BASE IMPERIAL TROOPS PENETRATED
STIYANGPAO RPT HSIYANGPAO AND BY SUNSET YESTERDAY REACHED PAITULING
RPT PAITULING AFTER OVERCOMING ENEMY RESISTANCE NORTH OF LICHIACHUNG
RHUNG RPT LICHIACHUANG FIFTEEN KILOMETERS NORTHWEST YENKING STOP
OTHER UNITS SWINGING NORTHWARD PARALLERL MAIN UNITS ATTACKED
SOME FOURHUNDRED ENEMY TROOPS SOUTHEAST YANGKUANTSUN RPT
YANGKUANTSUN AND NOW CONTINUING CHASE FLEEING ENEMY DIRECTION MORLUNG
HUNGTAN STOP IMPERIAL UNITS ADVANCING UROM WEST OCCUPIED NIUHSINSHAN
RPT NIUHSINSHAN AND HSIAOLUCHUANG PRESENTLY INCLOSING ON HSIPO
RESIPO RPT HSIPO TWENTY KILOMETERS NORTH YENKING PARA
( )
s
1 BUKIT TINGGI 11/8 LEARNED DUE INCREASING NUMBER EXCHANGE TRANSACTIOI
1
2
NTILDERS AND STRAIT DOLLARS IN RIOUW PROVINCE SUMATRA MILITARY
3
4
ADMINISTRATION DECIDED ESTABLISH SIX MORE EXCHANGE OFFICES
5
6
THAT PROVINCE NADDITION ONE ALRESDY ESTABLISHED PAKANBAROE
7
8
STOP NEW EXCHANGE OFFICES WILL ESTABLISHED BY 15/O AT BENGKALIS
9
10
CELATPANDJANG FOUR OTHER PLACES STOP THIS BRINGS TOTAL NUMBER
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1785764

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALIF.31
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
rT
FREQ KC
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
NAL DESCRIPTION
R-39
GMT
EXCHANGE OFFICES WHOLE SUMATRA TO  TEN INCLUDING THOSE AT
MEDAN PADANG PALEMBANG STOP RECALLED 1/11/42 SHONAN MILITARY
ADMINISTRATION PROHIBITED EXCHANGE STRAIT DOARLARS FOR GUILDER
AT RATE OTHER THAN AT PARITY STOP ORDER FACILITATE INTERCHANGE
GOODS BETWEEN MALAI SUMATRA SYSTEM EXCHANGE CLEARANCE AT PAR
ALSO ADOPTED WELLS EXCHANGE OFFICES AT KEY CITIES TWO REGIONS
PARA 11 TOKYO 12/8 NIPPON TIMES UNDER CAPTION QUOTE SANKING
MSTERLY STROKE UNQUOTE EDITORIALLY SAID QUOTE NTEPS INSITUTED
BY NATIONAL GOVERNMENT CHINA FEW D*YS AGO TO FORCE SPECULATORS
SRANGHAIWISE SELL THEIR EXTENSIVE HOARDINGS COTTON YARNS TEXTILSES
GOVERNMENTWARD AYE NOTABLE DEVALOPMENT STOP BENEFICIAL EFFECTS
THIS MOVE WILL FAR REACHING UNQUTOTE SOP ADDED QUOTE OBVIOUSLY
BY TAKING ENTIRE STOPCK COTTON YARNS TEXTE NDS PRIVATE SPECULATORS
NANKING GOVERNMENT WILL ABLE CURB INFLATION DRASTICALLY AND
EAST LIVELIHOOD FASSES OF PEOPLE STOP BUT EFFECTS WALL FELT
( )
s
UNONLY BY PEOPLE NEIGHBORHOOD SHANGHAI AND UNONLY WITH RESPECT
1
2
COTTON GOODS STOP GOVERNMENT FOR INSTANCE ABLE DISTRIBUTE COTTON
3
GOODS AMONG AGRICUTLURAL POPULACE IN TINTERIOR AYE MOVE WHEREFORE
PRIVATE DEALERS WOULD HAD NEITHER MEANS NOR INCLINATION UNQUOTE
7
8
STOP QUOTE BUT GOVERNMENT THROUGH ITS ACTION WILL ABLE RENDER
9
10
BENEFITSED AQRICULTURALSTS THEIR WELLBEING ENHANCED THAT EXTENT
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATNO

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE 12718
CALIF.
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQ'KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
AL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
BY:
R-39
INOFXED BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
BETTER ABLE MORE VILLING SEND INCREASET AMOUNTS FOODSTUFFS SHANGHAI
METROPOLAAN AREAWARD STOP EFFECT WILL BE EXPAND BENEFITS AREAS
BEYOND SHANGHAI AND TO PHASES LIVING WHEREAT FIRST GLANCE WOULD
SEEM HAVE LITTLE CONNECTION WITH COTTON GOODS UNQUOTE STOP
QUOTE BY THUS HELPING DOWNKEEP COST LIVING SHANGHAIWISE WHILE
SAMETIME ACCELERATING REHABILITATION AGRICULTURAL POPULATION
NATIONAL GOVERNMENT WILL MATERIALLY ENHANCING STABILITY NATION
OPP
STALLY TWILL ADDING DESRVEDLY ITS  ON PRESTIGE POWER ETCONFIDENCE
WHNFIDENCE WHEREWITH TIS REGARDED BY ITS OWN CITIZENS AND BY REST
WORLD STOP ALL IN ALL COMPULSORY PURCHASE COTTON YARNS TEXTILES
MASTERLY STROKE OF PRACTICAL STATESMANSHIP UNQUOTE 12 SAIGON
12/B LEARNED KENKICHI YOSHIZAWA RPT KEKICHI YOSHIZAWA JAPANESE
AMBASSADOR CONFERRED WITH GOVERNMREGENERAL VICEADMIRAL WEAN DECOUX
AT SUMMER CAPITAL DALAT STOP MEANWHILE YOSHIZAWA EXTGECTED LHXPECTED
REAXE BALAT SOON PARA
13 NIKKO 12/8 VISITING THAI FORNMINISTER WICHIT WICHIT WATHAKAN
2
HIS SUITE ARRIVED HERE SAFTERNOON ON SIGHTSEEING TRIP ONE JAPANS
3
FAMOUSEST SCENIN SPOTS STOP PARTY STAYING OVERNIGHT HOTEL SHORE
5
6
7
LAKE CHUZENJIKO STOP THEY WILL RETURN TOKYO 14/B PART 14 TOKYO
8
12/ HEADQUARTERS NORTNERN ARMY DISTRICT ANNOUNCED NOON SEHERAL
9
10
AMERICAN PLANES ATTEMPTED RAID NORTHERN SECTION CHISHIMA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17764

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.92)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
12718
(AII
FREQ KC
A, CALIF.
FREO KC
NAT
FREQ KC
T7
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION
FMN
ANALYST
A30
GMI
CHISHIMA (KURILE) ISLANDS 72 SMORNIN BUT OUR ANTIAIR DEFENSESUNIT
PROMPTLY REPULSED THEM END BI FURUNO DOMEI AB NM TU DE
JUP/JUQ VA
(END OF ENTERCEPT)
( )
s
1
2
3
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT:N

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
87543
ACTION TAKEN:
(12718)
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
FREQKC
CALL
NAT
TT
GMT
FADE
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN:
INDICATORS:
AUTO.
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT:
F=385
GMT:
05
JUP/JUQ CQ CQ CQ DE JUP/JUQ UP/JUQ JUP/JUQ CQ CQ(DOTS)
PRESS PRESS PRESS DE JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ JUP/JUQ HR BC AT 14DD AUG 12
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 38 SAIGON 12/8 LEARNED KENKENCHI YOSHIZAWA
REPT KENKENCHI YOSHIZAWA JAPANESE AMBASSADOR CONFERRED "ITH
GOVERNORGREREL VICEKOMRAL JEAN DECOUX AT SUMMER CAPITAL DALAT
STOP MEANWHILE YOSHIZAWA EXPECTED LEAVE DALAT SOON PARA 39 MANILA
H
11/8 NAUOTE ANOTHER SUNDRED YEARS AR CANNOT RE NIPPONS CALM
NESS SERENINITY UNQUOTE DECLARED VICENTE GUZMAN RPT VICENTE GUZMAN
TRIBUTE REPORTER R
BROWDCASTWISE TONIGHT ON IPRESSIONS GAINED
DURING TOUR NIPPON BY FIRST FILIPPINO INSPECTION PARTY STOP SAID
QUOTE HUNDRED MILLION JAPANESE HEARTS BEATING AS ONE CONFIDENT
ULTIMATE VICTORY STOP THIS IS NIPPONS HOMUNQUOTE STOP ASSERTING
NIPPONS CITIES FREE FROM WAR HYSTERIA GUZMAN SAID QUOTE NO RPT
NO TELLTAIL SIGNS CO TRUKZLES ** OS TJUTINGOUTTING OF BAGS
PILEMIN HIGN COULD DISCERNED UNQUOTE STOP CONTINUED QUOTE SERENIT
HUSH PEACEFUL COUNTRYSIDE PREVAIL OVER HILLS VA AS OU AS OUTREAGN
3
ING INTO CITIES GONNA MUNFFLING TINEST RAUCHOUS NOISE STOP LAND
5
PERMIATED WITH SOLID CONFIDENCE BORN KNOWLEDGE THAT NO RPT
NO HARM CAN BEFELLE EMPIRE UTEMPIRE UNQUOTE STOP QUOTE GREAT
8
9
PHYSICAL MIGNT COMMA EXTENT WHEREOF WORLD DOESNT KNOW COMMA COMBI
10
NED WITH SPIRIT THAT CANNOT BE SURPRISED HAS PARODUCED POWERFUL
TO UNIT:
) PRIORITY

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
1543
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE
(12718)
FREQ KC
CAI!
CALIF.
341
CALI
FREQ KC
FR1365
NAT
EI-PX。
TY
57
NAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
AUTO.
T-305
UTPOINT FA RURE PARTICIPATE CONFERENCE S IGIFICE SIGNIFICA
ANCE CASE CASSLANWASHINGTON PARLEYS JOUNEAL STATE
ITS SAFE ASS
AINVITATION DESIPITEREPEATEDANGLO
AMERICAN? UESTS STOP STATEMENT ***PRESS"ARD THAT SIXTH CONFERENCE
WILL NOT ATTENDED BY SOVI* SENTATIVES AND DISCUSSION WILL 
TED TO ANGLOAMERICAN OPERATIOETNAE IS AUFOVER START REFUSAL
ATTEND PARLEY STOP CONCLUSSION**** EON JOURNAL DECLARED JAPAN
HAS ALREADY ANSWERED? NOG ANGLOAMERICAN PARLEY NINDEPENDENCE
BURMA STOP MEANWHILE ASAWI DISPATCH FROM BERLIN REPORTED SIGNIFICAN
CE BEING AFORTHCOMING CHILL ROOSEVELT BECAUSE EREIT HPI
G ON ANGLOAMERICAN ETSOVIET RELATIONS STOP ACCORDING DEPATCH
NEUTRAL COUNTRIES EUROPEWISE UNDER IMPRSSION AMERICANSOVIET
ET RED DELICATEST STAGE STOP A DE NEUTRAL OBSERVERS ASSUME
CONFEREAGENDA WILL CONSIISTPROBLEM SECTOND SOVIET
PROBLEM THIRDLY AEM THIRDLY AEM THIRDLY REEXTATION IN RELAT
s
ION ABOVE TWO Z ISATCH ADDED ANGLOAMERICAN NEWVISIT
1
2
CANADA ETIGHTENING OF SITUATION ANGLOUNISTES VISIVIS
3
STOP OUTPOINTED ADERLEGATE FROM EXPENCTED COBEING BETTER
5
STOP NEWSLONDON WISE OUTPOINTED ANGLOS LONDONWISE OUTPOINTED
7
ANGLOWMERICAN SOVIET POLICY PROVED FAUULTY ANGLOAMERICAN RELAT-
10
IONS MUST FIRST ADA REMOVE SOVIET SKEPTICISM TOWARD THEM STOP
NEWSCHAASNICLE SAID ITALIAN QUESTION DIZOAMERICA WAR AIMS NOREPT
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
NOT

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.94)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
080543
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FREQ KC
12718
CALL
WORKS
OALIF
34
FREQKC
FRE63065
NAT
TT
OMET-PX
FREOKET
GMT
578
w25
FMN
INAL DESCRIPTION:
AUTO.
INDIEIR
ANALYST
T-385
GMI
RA 40 LISBON 11/8 REPORTED
NEW ORLEANS CLOSED MISSU
BETTY RYAN YARBOROUGH TWENTY ONE YEAR OLD BLOO ** AS CITYS
FIRST WOMAN DOGCATCHER THERE BECAME AVAILABLE FOR JOB PARA
41 TOKYO 12/8 HEADQUARTERS OF NORTHERN ARMY DISTRICT ISSUED FOLL-
OWING ANNOUNCEMENT NOON TODAY COLON QUOTE SEVERAL AMERICAN PLANES
ISUED 180 12/8
APPEARED OVER NORTHERN SECTION OF CHIESE
SECTION OF CHISHIMA ISLAND 71 12/8 BUT OUT OUR AIR DEFENSE
UNITS IMMEDIATELY ATTACKED ANT** DY ATTACKED AND REPULSED THEM
PARA 42 TOKYO Z8 EDITOR DO EI CHURCHILLS PRESS VISIT WARD
ATTEND SITH ANGLOAMERICAN CONFERENCE TOKYO SHIMBUN SMORNING
ASSERTED TIS E ASSUME COMING PARLY BEI ANGLOAMERICANS COPE
WITM NEW SITUATION BOTH EUROPE EASTASIAWISE STOP JOU CITI
POSSIBLE CONFERENCE AGENDA POSSITIVE STRAIGHT AGAINST ITLOWING
ITS POLITICAL CHANGE COMMA POSSITIVE OPERATIONS AGAINST GERMANY
( )
CONNECTION WITHBEVELOPMENT SICILIAN WAR SITUATION AND PROBLEM
s
1
SOVIET DEMAND FOR FORMSECTFRONT STOP BESIDES PAPER ELIEVED
2
3
COFEREES ATTENDION WILL DEVOTED OUT WORKING MEASURES COUNTE
ACT DEVELOPMENTS EASTASIAWISE * ANLUDING INDEPENDENCE BURMA INTE
SEFIED INDIAN INDEPENDENCE MOVE STOP CONTINUED AFAWE PREVIOUS
CONFERENCES DESIPTE ENTMY PROPAG INDISCRIMTE BOMBING PER
10
PETRATED BY ANGLOAMERICANS AGAINST NONCOMBATANTS DEFENSELESS
CITIES CATHEDRALS OTNER CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS STOP
TO UNITI
PATD

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
188543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
CALLE
WORKS:
OEB
CALL
FREQ KC
13665
NAT.
FREQ KC
SOMEI-PX
TT
FREQ KC
1
575
25
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
AUTO.
DY:
T-385
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
CAL WITH SOVIETUNION ADDING THEREFORE READJUSTMENT ANGLOAMERICAN
ETSOVIET RELATIONS WILL HAVE IMPORTANT BEARING ON FINAL OUTCOME
EUROPEAN WAR PARA 43 TSINAN 12/8 **CLOSED IMPERIAL TROOPS UPMOPP-
ING SATINS AGAINST NEMY REMNAT COMMUNISTS NORTH PARTS HANTUN
ANHWEI HONAN KIANGSPROVINCES PRISONED ONETHOUSAND TO FIFTEEN
EMY TWO THOUSAND IXHUNDRED ENEMY LEFT BEHIND BBATTLEGROUNDS
STOP ALSO STROYED THIRTYTWO ENEMY MILTARY INSITALLATIONS STOP
WARTROOPSWISE INCLUDED ONETHOUSAND SIXFORTYTWO RIFLES ONEZEROFOUR
PISTOLS EIGHTTRENCHYFOUR LIGHT MACHINEGUNS OTHER WAR EQUIPMENT
PARA 42 /8 *RPT PAIROT JAIYANAMA CHIEF THAI GOVERNMENT PIEU ETO
THR MEMBERS VISITING **HERE FOR TOKYO SMORNING END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR NM BT DE JUP/JUQ SK
SK
054
()
s
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 178839

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
ALIF.
341
WORKS
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
rr
FREO KC
MI
FADE
RST
WPM
LMN
DESCRIPTION
ANAYST
R-39
GMT:
0615
SUITE ATRTUELLEME** ENVISITE *RRIVERENT ICI POUR
UNE DESPLUS BELLES CEPAYS STOP ILS RIGAGNERONT TOKYO
14/8 APRES *VDIR PASSED NUIT HCTEL LAC CHIZENJI PAFA
CHEF BUFEAU PPCPAGANDT
1 HSENKING 12/8 PAIROT JAIYANAMA
THAILANDI ET SA SUITE AYANT TEFIINED LEUR  ISSION AN*CHO
UKOUWISE YUITTERENT CEMATIN AVIONWISE CAPITALE ANDCHDUE
POUR SERENDRI TOKYD PARA
11 MACASSAR 11/8 SAKUSABUFO UCHIGASAKI *ICEPRESIDE T CH**
BRE REPRESENTANTS PARON ET ** SUITE ARRIVERENT ICI JOURDHUI
COURS TOURNEE INSPECTION REGIONS SUD STOP SITOT ARRIVENS
ILS RENDIRENT VISITE AUTORITES MILITAIRES ET K*VILES LOCA*ES
V
STOP VISITEURS COMPTENT INSPECTER ***IN CTUILLE ET DISRICT
SUD CELEVES **RA 12 FRONT EST MONGOLIE INTERIEURE 11/8
FORCES JAPONAISESOPERERENT VIRTUELLEMENT ENCERCLEMENT TROUPES
COMMUNISTES **INOISES DANS REGIONS ONTAGNEUSES MONGOLIE*NT*R
( )
s
IEURE STOP OMNIROUTES RETRAITE ENNEOIES SETROUVENT AINTENT
1.
2
COUPEES PAR FORCES JAPONAISES STOP PROGRESSANT VERS TORD
3
VENANT CERTAINE BASE NON REVELEE TROUPES JAPONAISES PENETR
5
ERENT HSEYANGPAO ET V*S NUIT TOMBANTE ARRIVERENT P**TULING
APRES AVDIR BRISED RE**STANCE ENNEMIE POINT NORD LICHIA C
10
HUNG Y*ZE KILOMETRES NORDEST YENKING STOP AUTRES UNITES
PROGRESSAN VERS NORD PARALLELEMENT AVEC FORCES PRINCIPALES
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT:NO

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
CALIF.
341
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS.
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
BY:_
R-39
INDEXED BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
ATTAYUERENT
TROUPE
ENN**IE
CC*POSEE
YUATRECENTS HOMMES
POINT SUDEST YANGKUANT
水水本水本*水*
COXINUENT POURSHITE ENNEMI
ENRETRAITE VERS MOLUNGTAN ST*******ITES JAPONAISES
VENANT
EXDU*T O*CUPERENT NI**SINSHAN ET ISNAOLUCHUAN**N ACTUELLEOE*
SERRENT PA**HSI*** VINGE KILOMETRES
SDID YENKING PAIA
W3 BUKIT TI NGGI 11/8 APPNEI V**NOM**E CF OISSANT
CHANGE
TRANSACTIONS ENTRE GULDENS ET  OLLAS DETROIT DANS PFOVINCE
B
RIOUW VIRG ADDINISCATION
ILITAIRE SUATIA DLCICA TABLIR SIX
*NOUVEAUX BUREAUX CHANGE
QUE CAJOUTET ***A**AU
D***ABLI PAKANBAROE STOP
NCUVEAUX BUREAUX SERONT ETABLIC
AKANT  15/9 L 15/9 AD BEGKA**S CELATPA JA ET GUATRE
ADTRES PLACES PORTANT OMBRE BUREAUX CHANGE
SU**TRAWISE
AD TOTAL DIX YCOMPRIS CLUX SETROUVANT MEDAD PADANG PALCMBANG
STOP RAPPELLED ADMINISTRATIO* MILITAIRE SHONAN INTERDIT
1/11/42 CHANGE DOLLARS DETROIT CONTRE DULDE NS AD RAISON
()
8
AUTRE QUE PARITE STOP ENVUE FACILITER
CHANGE
PRODUITS
2
ENTRE MALAI ET SUMATRA SYSTEME CHANGE
ET REGLEMENT AD RAISON
3
EGALE FUT ADOPTED PAR BUREAUX HANGE SETROUVANT VILLES
5
6
PRINCIPALES DEUX REGIDNS PARA
7
 14 TSINAN 12/8 ANNONCED JCS R**UI TROUPES JAPONAISES
8
E
10
OPERANT CONTRE DEBRIS ENNEDIS COMMUNISTIS CHINDIS DANS
PARTIES SEPTINTRIONALES PROVINCES SHANTUNG ANHWES HONAN
PAT. NO. 177

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.95)
115
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
ILE
LIF.
341
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
ORS
FREQKC
NAT
FREO KC
rT
FREO KC
.MT
FADE
RST
WPN
DESCRIPTION
IMN
R-39
GMI
ET KIANGSU LIVRERENT 439 COMBATS CONTRE CNNEI DONT 155
CONTRE COMMUNISTES *URANT JUILLET STOP TROUPES JAPONAISES
3
OBTINRENT RESULTATS SUIBANTS 26*O VORTS ENNE IS ABANDONNEDS
DONT 565 COMMUNISTES 1215 PRIS**NIERS ENNEMIS D0NT 155
COMMUNISTES 32 AMENNGEMENTS VILITAIRES R NEMIS DETAUITS
STOP BUTIN CAPT*RED SEDECOMPOSE NOTAM*NT PAR
1462 FUSILS 14 PISTOLETS 8 DRTIERS TRANCHEE
64 MITRAILLEUSES
ET AUTR ARMES ATMUNITIONS
PARA
15 SHIHMEN 11/8 SELON DEPECHE VENUE EXFRONT TROUPES JAPONAI*S
LESQUELLES EFFECTUENT ACTUELLE ENT OPERATIONS NETTODAGE
CONTRE *BRIS TFDUJES CHUNGKING DANS PFOVINCE HOPEH DURANT
2
JUILLET ENGAGERENT 288 *OMBATS CUMENNEMI STOP RESULTATS
GENERAUX REMPORTEDS PARFORCES JAPONAISES ADDIVERS ENDRO*TS
PROVINCE HOPEH DURANT JUILLET SONT SUIVANTS BISTOP 129
MORTS ENNEMIS ABANDONNEDS TANDISQUE 75D ENNEMIS FURENT**TS
( )
s
PRISONNIERS REVELA DEPECHE STOP TROPHEE CAPTUREE TROUPES
1
2
*ONAISES SE*COMPOSE ***AMMENT PAR 397 FUSILS 4327
3
CAROUCHES ET A**R* *** STOP DAUTREPART DIX AMEN*
GETTENTS MILITAIRES ENNEMIS FURENT DETRUITS PAR CSTROUPES
JAPONAISES AJOUTA RAPPORT PARA
10
16 TOKYO 12/BMAMORU SHIGEMITSU MINISTRE A*IRES ETRANGERES
C
TINT CTAPRESMIDI AD SA RESIDENCE OFFICIELLE CONFERENCE AVEB
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BMEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATIND

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.97)
16
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
LE
341
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS.
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT_
Tr.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
R-39
INDEXED PY
ANALYST:
GMT:
DR HEINRICH STAHMER ET MAFIC IELLI RESPI CTIVEMENT AMBASS
ADEUR ALLEMAGNE ET ITALIE STOP ROITSAVDIR CTCOAFEREACE
PORTA SUR PROBLEMES CONCERNANT POURSUITE CONJOINTE CUERRE
ACTUELLE PAR TRIPUISSA*CES PARA
17 TSINAN 11/8 FORCES JAPONA**ES OPERAT CONTRE CE TONZIECE
ET CENTQUATORZIEME DIVISIONS CUBCOMM*NDEDENT GENERAL YU
TSUEH TSUNG LESQUELLES INFESTANT REGIO: LAC EISHAN SISTHICT
ME*IDIONAL PROVINCE SHANTUNG VI*G ATTAQUERENT VIOLEMENT
DEBRIS ENNEMIS APPARTINANT ADCENTQUATORZIEME DIVISION 
REFUGIEE DANS REGION MONTAG LUSE ALENTOURS CHENGHUANG AGGEXHU*
*ILOMETRES NORDEST TENG HSIEN STOP AUCOURS OPERATIONS *DRCES
JAPONAISES EN*EGISTRERENT RESULTATS SUIVANTS BISTOP 85
MORTS ENNEM* AB*NDONNEDS 19 PRISONNIES UNE ITRAIL
37 FUSILS STOP PARA* CSPRISONNIERS SETROUVAIENT UN
COLONEL ET TROIS OLLICIEAES SUPERIEURS FIN BT FURUNO
DOMEI AR NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
2
CQ DE JUP/JUQ HR BC AT 16D∅ AUG 12TH BI COPRIGHT DOMEI
3.
52 SHIMEN 11/8 REVEALED COMPOSITE RESULTS GAINED DURING
5
6
J BY JAPANESE TROOPS NOW ENGAGED IN UPOPPING MPE*ATIONS
7
N
AGAINST CHUNGKING REMNANTS IN HDPEH PROVINCE LOLLOWS FIRSTLY
10
DNETHOUSAND TENTYNINE ETEMY DEAD ABANDONED BATTLEYIE*D
SECONDLY SEVENFIVEO PAISONER TAKEN THIR*LY THREENINESEVEN
RIFLES FOURTHOU
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.96)
EVENTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS
SPACE
543
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
FILE
12718
CALIF.
341
FRFQ KC
FREQ KC
FREO KC
NAT
FREO KC
T
FADE
RST
wrm
AGNAL DESCRIPTION
5
R-39
GMT
RIFLES FOURTHOUSAND THREETWOSE*EN ROUNDS RIFLE AMMUNITION
AND OTHER *RMS
CAPTURED FOUFTHLY TEN ILITAY INS***LATIONS
DESTROYED PARA
53 TOKYO 12/8 MALAI STUDE TS FIRST COLON FIVE ALAI STUDENTS
WHO ARRIVED HERE EXACTLY ***HT MONTHS ACO ETDELN STUDYING
DI*IGENTYY EVERSINCE UNDER INTINATE CA E ARQUIS ***SHICHIKA
TOKUGAWA RPT YOSHICHIKA TOKUGAVA OTHER INTERESTED JAPANELE
E
PROUDLY DECLARED INTERVIEWWISE TODAY THEIM NOW ABLE CONVERSE
IN NIPPONGD ETCOMPLETELY ACCUSTOMED NIPPON WAYS LIFE
STOP STUDENT GROUP INCLUDES TWD CHARMING GIFLS CHEAH YAHYA
RPT *HEAH YASYA TWENTYONE ROSNA MAHYUDIE RPT ROSNA MAHYUDIN
FIFTEE* THREE YOUNG MEN UNGHU ABDUL AZIZ RPT UN*HU ABDUL
AZIZ TW**YTWO UNGHU MUHSIN RPT UNGH* MUHSIN TWENTYONE
WAR ABDUL HAMID RPT WAN ABDU* HAMID TWENTYONE **OP
TWO GIRLS WHO CAME EXSHONAN JANUARY BEEN SO ENGROSSED STUDENTS
( )
s
THEYVE BEEN OBLIVIOUS EVEN CHANGES SEASONS (MORE)
1
2
PARA B4 ADD ITEM 53 MALAI STUDENTS SECON* COLON HOWEVER
8
THEIR APPLICATIDN BEEN REW*RDED WITH EARLY
ABILITY
FREEDY WRITE KATI KANA HIRAGANA (JAPANESE SYLLABAR*S)
M
AND SOME CHINESE CHARACTERS WEHLE PARTICIP*TE SIPLE JAPANESE
10
CONVERSATIONS STOP WHILE THEY BEEN TAKING PRELIMINARY
LESSONS *T RESIDENCE THEIR BENEFACTOR THEY ENROLLED
TO UNITI
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATNO

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
8
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
8
GRIFFIN
INDEXED DY
ANALYBT
GMT:
F
ACCREDITED SCHOOL FOR MORE ADVANCED COURSES TON PRIL STOP
CHEAH ENROLLED (HOLDS KEY DOWN) *NORDER UNDE STAND TRUE NATURE
NIPPON OTHER PEOPLE BOTH GIRLS CURRENTLY TAKING PRIVATE LES-
SONS NIPPON PAINTING STOP SINCE MAY THEYVE TRANSFERRED ABODE
FROM MARQUIS TOKUGAWAS RESIDENCE TO SOME HISAJI SASAKI RPT
SISAJI SASAKI WHERE THEY LEADING ENTIRELY NIPPON LIFE EXMORN-
U
ING TO NIGHT STUDYING JAPANESE FEMININE VIRTURES STOP DAY USA-
8
ALLY DEBINS BY RISING 0530 MI 53 STOP FINISHING BREAKFAST
BY ØGO IMI GO& THEY HURRY FOR BUS WHICHLL TAKE THEM TO
MUCH ANTICIPATED LESSONS AT SCHOOL (MORE)
PARA
55 ADD ITEM 54 IMI ADD ITEM S4 MALAI STUDENTS THERD COLON
MISS CHEAH REVEALED QUOTE WE GREATLY HANDICAPPED ATTIME AR-
RIVAL BUT NOW DONT FIND IT DIFFICULT EXPRESS OURSELVES WHILE
SOYA BEAN SOUP PICLED VEGETABLES HAVE BECOME PALATABLE UN-
QUOTE STOP ADDED QUOTE WEVE EVEN BECOME USED EAT WITH CHOP-
s
1
STICKS UNQUOTE STOP SINCE THEY BOTH RETURN EXVCHOMLS ABOUT
2
3
1500 IL 150 EACHDAY CHEAH STATED THEY GIVEN NIPPONGO LES-
4
5
SONS THRICE WEEKLY ATHOME STOP QUOTE AFTER THIS WE DIP INTO
6
7
UNIQUE ETREFRESHING JAPANESE BATH WHICH WEVER COME TO LIKE
8
9
SOMUCH UNQUOTE SHE SAID CHONTINUING REQUOTE AFTER HEARTY
10
SUPPER WE SPEND MOST OF EVENING REVIEWING DAYS LESSONS STOP
ALTHOUGH WE BECOME HOMESICK WHEN WE SEE MALAI MOTION PICTURES
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.97)
19
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
TIONTAKEN
FILE
12718
FILE
FREQ KC
OBS
FREQ KC
FREO KC
NAT
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DFSCRIPTION
7
GRIFFIN
GMI
WE REMIND OURSELVES OF OUR MISSIONS ETEARNESTLY PLUNGE INTO
STUDY NIPPONGO WELLS OUTSTANDING TRAITS NIPPON WOMANHOOL TO
BE ABLE TEACH THEM TO YOUTHS MALAI UNQUOTE CHEAH CONCLUDED
(MORE) PARA
56 ADD ITEM 55 IMI ADD ITEM 55 NALAI STUDENTS FOURTH COLON
THREE LADS WHO LIVING AT MISTER YOSHITOMO TOKUGAWAS RESIDENCE
ARE RELATIVES SULTAN JOHORE ETMET THEIR BENEFACTOR JOHORE
BAHARS WISE WHILE WORKING WITH PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT STOP
AT BEGINNING SPRING SEMESTER IN APRIL AZIZ ENTERED POLITIC-
OECONOMIC DEPARTMENT WASEDA UNIVERSITY MUHSIN ELECTRICAL
ATE
DEPARTMENT SAME INSTITUTION WHILE HAMID MATRICULJEZD TOKYO
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE STOP ADDITION REGULAR COURSES MALAIAN
STUDENTS TAKING SPECIAL LESSONS NIPPONGO THREE TIMES WEEKLY
STOP AZIZ EXTREMELY POPULAR AMONG CLASSMATES THIRTY WHO
STUDYING MALAI LANGUAGE UNDER HIM (MORE) PARA
1
57 ADD ITEM 56 IML ADD ITEM 56 MAUAI STUDENTS FIFTH COLON HES
2
3
NOT NEGLECTING PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT FOR HE STATED RECEIVING
JUDO LESSONS TWICE WEEKLY STOP GETTING INTO SPIRIT NIPPON
NATION HES EAGER PARTICIPATE CIVILIANS AIRRAID DRILLS WELLS
8
STUDENT SERVICE LABOR ACTIVITIES STOP QUOTING HIS DIARY AT
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BMEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
20
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYOT
GMT:
RANGOON HE WROTE IN APRIL QUOTE MY FERVENT HOPES BEEN AN-
SWERED ETEYEVE BECOME STUDENT JAPANESE UNIVERSITY STOP ALTH-
OUGH EYE FELT DISCRIMINATED RECEIVED COLD TREATMENT WHILE
.S
STUDYING AT RAFFLEZ UNIVERSITY SINGAPOREWISE BECAUSE OF MY
BEING MALAIAN NIPPON STUDENTS TEACHERS ACCORD ME DEEPEST
KINDNESS (MORE) PARA
58 ADD ITEM 57 IML ADD ITEM 57 MALAI STUDENTS SIXTH LAST
COLON THERES SO MANY THINGS TO STUDY IT SEEMS TWOULDNT BE
ENOUGH EVEN IF EYED TWO BODIES UNQUOTE STOP HIS ANECDOTES
SHOW HE FOUND IT TRYING TASTE NIPPON DISHES UPON ARRIVAL BUT
COMPLETELY ACCUSTOMED TO NIPPON FOOD NOW STOP WHILE LANGUAGE
GRADUALLY BECOMING UNDERSTANDABLE HE ADMITTED WHOLLY INCOM-
PREHENSIBILE WORDS OFTEN OUTCROP BETWEEN LESSONS STOP HIS
LATEST NOTES OVERFLOW WITH FERVENT IDEAL ELEVATE STATUS HIS
RACE WITH KNOWLEDGE EXPERIENCE GAINED NIPPONWISE STOP IN ONE
5
1
INSTANCE HE MADE DETERMINED DECLARATION QUOTE EYELL ASSIDUOU-
2
3
SLY STUDY NIPPON RETURN MALAI SOONS POSSIBLE DISCLOSE TO YOU-
4
5
THS MALAI GREATNESS STRENGTH NIPPON UNQUOTE STOP NIPPON UN-
6
UD
7
QUOTE STOP NIPPON PROUD OF THESE STAUENTS EXMALAI WHO PROV-
8
9
ING EVERY INCH TRUE FUTURE LEADERS THEIR PEOPLE BY THEIR
10
ZEAL EARNEST EFFORTS END BT
FURUNO DOMEI AR
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
43
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FRFQ KC
FREOKC
FRFOK
FREOKE
FADF
RST
wr…A
NAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
AUG 12TH BT
PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 170C
TOKYO 12/8 FORNMINISTER
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 15 TOKYO 12/8 1M1
MAMORU SHIGEMITSU HELD JOINT CONFERENCE SAFTERNOON WITH GER-
MAN ETITALIAN AMBASSADORS TOKYOWARD LOCTOF HEINRICH STAHMER
AND MARIO INDELLI RESPECTIVELY AT HIS OFFICIAL RESIDENCE STOP
TIS UNDERSTOOD THEY LISCUSSED PROBLEMS PETINENT TAIPARTITE
POWERS JOINT PROSECUTION PRESENT WAR PARA
16 TOKYO 12/8 IMI TOKYO 12/8 EDITORIALLY COMMENTING CHURCHILLS
PRESENT VISIT CANADAWARD ATTEND SIXTH ANGLOAMERICAN CONFER-
ENCE TOKYO SHIMBUN SMORNING ASSERTED TIS EASY ASSUME COMING
PARLEY BEING HELD BY ANGLOAMERICANS COPE WITH NEW SITUATION
BOTH EUROPE EASTASIAWISE STOP JOURNAL (UNREADABLE)
(BALANCE TRANSCRIBED FROM MEMOVOX RECORDING)
1
2
3
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BIARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.96)
ENTYTWO
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
FILE
FILI
12718
CALIF.
744
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
13065
FREOKC
NA1
MEI-PX
F222
2-3
565
w..25
FADE
RST
GNAL DESCRIPTION
AUTO.
I～N
HIGH NISE LEVEL AND QRM AT
TIMES,HARD TO TRANSCRIBE.
T-385
(0820)
ITS AR ITS INI TS COLN KR ITS P**SOVIET DEMAND FOR FOR
FOR
CONFEREES ATTENDING WILL DEVOTED OUT* COUNTERACT SERIES RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS EASTASIAWISE INCLUDING INDEPENDFICE BUR A INTENSIFIED
AND INDI**INDEPENDENCE MENT STOP*****CONTINUED ALL THAT OUTCAME
PRESVEIOUS CONFERENCES DESPITE ENENEMY PROPANED WAS INDISCRIMENAED
BOMBING PERPETRETED BY ANGLOAMERICAN AGAINST NONCOMBATANTS DENENSE
LESS
** OTHER CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS STOP OUTPOINTEDG PREMIER
SALINS FAILURE PARTICIPATE CONFERENCE S
AS AS CASE CASABLANCA
WASHINGTON PARLEYS JOURNAL STATED ITS SAFE ASSUME STALIN PEFUSED
ACCEPT INVITATION DESPITE REPEATED ANGLOAMERICAN REQUESTS STOP
ROOSEVELTS
STATEMENT PRESSWARD THAT SIXTH CONFERENCE "ILL NOT
ATTENDED BY SOVIET RE RESENTATIVES AND DISCUSSION WILL MAINLY DEVO
TED TO ANGLOAMERICAN OPERATIONS JOURNAL ASSERTED IS LAME EXCUSE
COVER STALINS REFUSAL ATTEND PARLEY STOP
CONCLUSION JOURNAL DECLAR
ED JAPAN HAS ALREADY ANSW RED COMING ANGLOAMERICAN PARLEY BY GR
( )
s
GRANTING INDEPENDENCE
BURMA PARTA 18 ITS NA 12/8
12/8 DISCLOSED
2
JAPANESE TROOPS UPMOPPING OPERATIONS AGAINST ENEMY REMNANTS COMM
3
UNISTS NO THERB PARTS SHANTUNG AHWIE HONAN KIANGSU PROVINCES IN
JULY PRISONER ONETHOUSAND TWO FIFTEEN ENEMY TROOPS ADDITION TWO
THOUSAND SIXUNDRED ENEMY DEAD LEFT BEHIND BATTLEGROUND STOP ALSO
10
DEVROYED SAME PERIOD THIRTYTWOENEMY MILITARY INSTALLATIONS WHILE
WARTROOPS INCLUDED ONETHOUSAND SIXFORTYTWO RIFLES ONEZEROFOUR
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATN

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.97)
THREE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
58543
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALL
FREQKC
FR008
NAT_
TT.
FRS
GMT
AL DESCRIPTION:
AUTO.
EMN
INDICATORS:
HIGH NOISE LEVEL AND QRM.
BY:
HÁRD TO TRANSCRIBE.
INDEXEDDY
ANALYT:
T-385
GMT:
OLERS EIGHT RNCH MORTARS SIXTYFOUR LIGHT MACHINE GUNS OTHER
WAR EQUIPMENT PARA
18SHIMEN 11/8 SHIMEN 11/8 REVEALED COMPOSITE
RESULTS GAINED nURI
JULY BY JAPANESE TROOPS NOW ENGAGED IN UPMO
PPING OPERATIONS AGAINST CHUNGKING REMNANTS IN HOPEH PIVINCE FO
FIRSTLY ONETHOUSAND TWENTY NINE NEMY DEAD ABANDONED BATTLEFIELD
SECONDLY SEVENFIVEZEROO PRISONER TAKEN THIRDLY THREENINESEVEN
RIFLES FOURTHTHOUSAND THREESEVEN ROUNDS RIFLE AMUNITION AND OTHER
ARMS CAPTURED FOORTHLY
MILITARY INVALLATIONS DESTROYED PARA
19 TOKYO 12/8 DAIICHI TATSUSHKA MARU SPECIAL WOOD ETSTEEL SHIP
SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETED MAIDEN VOYAGE WITH FULL CARGO EXOSAKA SHI -
BAURA WARD STOP THREEHUNDREDTON SH IP WHICH BELONGS TO TATSUMA
COMASTAL STEAMSHIP COMPANY FIRST COMBINED WORK ETSTEEL TYPE SHIP
TOBE BUILT NIPPONWIS E BY OSAKA WOOD ETSTEEL SHIPBUILDING COMPANY
STOP RESULTS MAIDEN VOYAGE PROMISES REIGHT *VOURE FOR COASTAL SHIP
( )
PING STOP SAID CONSTRUCTION APPLYIED
STEEL MATERIALS USED FOR
s
1
STEEL SHIPBUILDING ETONEHA
WOOD REQUIREED FOR CONSIUCTION
2
WOODEN VESSELS PARA 2 TOKYO 12/8
3
4
TOKYO 12/8 YOMIURIHOCHI EDITORIALLYWISE SMORNING OUTPOINTED ALTHO-
5
6
7
UGH ANGLOAMERICANS DECLARED PREVIOUS TO SICLIAN CAMPAIGN
8
9
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17704

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FREQ KC
44
FREQ KC
FRED3068
NAT
FREOROT
GMT
505
WP25
FADE
ESCRIPTION
HIGH NOISE LEVEL.VERY
ICULT TO COPY.
T-385
GMI
BAT THEIR ENE Y NOT REPT NOT ITALIAN PEOPLE BUT MUSSOLINI ETFASC
IST TIS RAH RATHERINCONGRUOUS THAT ATTACK ON ITALIAN PROPLE BEIN
INTEMSIFIED FOLLOWING POLITICAL CHANGE THAT COUNTRYWISE STOP SAID
INCONGRUITY ANGLOAMERICAN ACTIONS APPARENTLY ARISES FROM THEIR
MISSAPPOINT ENT OF ITALIAN POLITICAL CHANGE AS FIRST STEP ITALIAN
SUFFER ANTIXIS POWERS STOP ADDED ITALGERMANO ALLIANCE SPRINGS
FROM STRONG TWO PEOPLES COMMON HATRED AGAINST ANGLOSAXONS ETERMIN
ATION CONSTRUCT NEW ORDER EUROPE"ISE STOP DECLARED THEIRS NO RPT
NO DOUBT ITWLIANS NOW BEEN GIVEN NE INCFFIVEN STRENGTHEN THEIR
TIS WITH GERMANY BY *** FULL STOPPORT BADOGLIO GOVERNMENT STOP
QUOTENG OLD JAPANESE SAYING CUOTE AFTER RAIN SOLIDR BECOMES GROUNT
UNQUOTE JOURNAL SAID RECENT CONFERENCE NORTHERN ITALYWISE BETWEEN
ITALOGERMAN GOVERNMENT LEADERS RESULTED FROM ITALYS RECEENT
MINIMUM
**OUT CHURRENT WAR STOP OUTPOINTED REA***LINES EASTERN
FRONT BOUND MAKE CONSIDERABLE NUMBER GERMAN DIVISIONS AVAILABLE
F ACTION ELISWHERE STOP **NEXT STEP ST BE TAKEN BY GERMANY IS
2
FORCES TO WESTERN FRON T FURTHER SOLIDIFY QUOTE EUROPEAN FORTT
INTENSIFY POSITIVE AIDILYWARD BOTH WAR SUPPLIES AND REEFORCE TO
KYO 12/8
TOKYO
12/8
HEADQUARTERS
BETWEEN FORCE THREE
BOEING BESVENTEENS CAME OVER NORTHERN KURILE ISLANDS MORNING
10
12/B STOP ANNOUNCEDENT SAID OUR ARMY AIR AIR UNIT PROMPTLY INTER
CEPTED ENEMY SHOOTING THREE RAIDERS STOP ADDED ONE OUR PLANES
FALLEAIRETUNTINUENDCBZFURUNGNBOMEIPARRNM BTNDECUUP/JUGRIORITY

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
ALE 12718
CALL
FREQ KC
LIFORTA7O
WORKS
CALL
FREQKC
13065
FREQKC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
5
GMT
DECRIPTIONI BAD QRN AND QRN.
FMN
R TAPE ACCT. HIGH SPEED
INDICATORS
TATION IN JUP ZEFO EAT.
INDEXED BY
MSHOREY
ANALYET:
GMT
CQ DE JUP/JUQ
水水*本****
JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 1 3 13/8 BT
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 24 RANG0ON 12/8 L 24 RANG0ON 12/S
LEARNED POSITION NEW GOVEFNMEIT FURTHER STRENGTHENED WHEN
ADIPADI BA AW FOLLOWING SERIES CONFEFENCES WITH REPRESEN-
TATIVES KAREN TFISE BROUGHT TI EN ONEHUNDRED YEAROLD FEUD
BETWEEN BURMESE KARENS STOP SAI FOLLOWIC HIS STATEMENT
S
CLARIFYING BURMAS QUTE FRONTLI E POLICY UNQUCTE BAMAWA
FIRST STEP WAS REMOVE DISCOID BET EE UF ESE KARENS WHICH
PROVED GREAT OBSTACLE  ATICAL ITY BURA STOP IN REACHING
FRIENDLY AGREEMENT WITH KARENS ADIPADI PROMISED THEM ALL
PEOPLES BURMA INCLUDING KARES VILL TREATED EQUALLY AND
KARENS WILL ASSURED RIGHT ORK ALL FIELDS FDR RECONSTRUCTICN
BURMA STOP ADDITION BAMAW INFORMED KARENS BURMA WOULD
COOPERATE PRDSECUTION GREATER EASTASIATIC WAR BY ATTAINING
RECONSTRUCTION NATION ONBASED UNITY OF PEOPLE PUBLIC
s
1
OPINION AND ORDER PARA
2
3
25 RANGOON 12/8 LML 25 RANG0ON 12/8
4
5
WITH MARRIVAL JUNKICHI MUKAI RPT JUNKICHI MUKAI AND SATARO
6
7
TANAKA RPT SATARO TANAKA HERE YESTE DAY SIX OF NINE ARTISTS
8
9
COMMISSIONED BY NIPPON ARMY TO RECORD ON CANVAS HERDIC DEEDS
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1774

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.96)
 DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
ALIFORNIA
CALL
FREQ KC
NAI
FREOK
FREO KC
CMT
FADE
RST
WPM
MN
GNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GM
OF NIPPON FORCES IN GHEATER EASTASIA WAR NCW IN BURMA STOP
NEW ARRIVALS FOLLOWED CLOSELY ON HELLS RYO*** KOIS
(TAPE UNFEADABLE)
RPT NOBU KURIHARA AND TSUGUO SUZUKI RPT TSUGUO SUZUKI STOP
U
THREE REMAINING ARTISTS KAKUTARO KASHIWARA RPT KAKATARO
KASHIWARA TATSUSHIRO TAKABATA RPT TUTSUSHIRO TAKABATA AND
TOKUSHIRO KOHIYAKAWA RPT TOKUSHIRO KOHAYAKAWA EXPECTED
ARRIVE SOON STOP IN OUTCARRYI G MISSION ARTYSTS ILL SPEND
SOME **OMONTHS BURMAWISE DURING WHICH ***IEYLL RECORD E**NTH
AND SCENES OF EPDCHAL AMPORTANCE ON CANVAS STOP KOISO WHO
ARRIVED SOMETI E AGO ****X*CODLY AS BEEN GIVEN HONOR PAINTING
GURMAS ADIPADI PRIMEMINISTER BAMAW WELLS SCENES DEPICTING
DEVELOPMET OF NE BURMA STOP TSUGUO SUZUKI WILL PICTURE
BURMAS CITIZENS PARTTAKING I AIRDEFENSE STOP BOTH ARTISTS
( )
ALREADY HAVE STARTED ACTUAL ORK WITH PAINTS AND BRUSHES
s
2 0150
1
STOP GENICHIRO INOKUMA A D KURIHARA REPORTEDLY DEPARTED FOR
3
FRONT LINES WHILE OTHERS AWAITING ASSIGNMENTS PARA
4
5
26 SURABAYA 12/8 ML 26 SURABAYA 12/8
6
7
C*GOVERNOR ITSUKI SAITO RPT ITSUKI SAITO OF TAIWAN
8
9
GOVTGENERAL WHD PRESENTLY ON INSPECTION TOUR SOUTHERN
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 1
TO UNIT:

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.97)
REE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
ALE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
LIFORNTAOBS
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
BY
M. SHO EY
INDEXED BY
ANALYOT
GMT
REGIONS ARRIVED  HERE SAFTE-NCCN PARA
27 TOKY0 12/8 1ML 27 TCKY0 12/8
NATIONAL MOVEMENT ENCOURAGING EVERY JUVENILE YO******ROUN*
RYWISE LEARN ART SWIMMING WANOW IN FULL SWING UNDER JOINT
CN
AUSPICES EDUCATION ETWELFARE MINISTFIES STOP DN AUGUST
EIGHT IMPERIAL RESCRIPT DAY NATIONAL SCHOOL CHILDREN COUN-
TRYWISE HELD SWIMING MEIT IN RESPECTIVE LOCALITY SIMULTA
EOUS WITH MEET AT JINGU PCCL "ITHI EIJI SHRINE
CCMPOUND
ETON THAT
OCCASICN EDUCATICI:ISTIF VISCOUNT AGAKAGE
OKABE RPT NAGAKACE
OKAE DELIVIRED ADDRESS
OF ENCOURAGMENT
SWIMMING OVER RADIO STOP ALSO EVENTS INCLUDING MIXED FIVE-
HUNDRED METEE RACE FOR BOTH BOYS ETGIRLS AND FCR BOYS
ONLY HELD SIMULTANEOUSLY THROUGHOUT COUNTRY STOP NATIONAL
MOVEMENT FOR ADULTS WHICH UNDER DIRECT SPONSORSHIP JAPAN
( )
ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION ETSUPPORTED BY WELFARE MINISTRY SINCE
s
1
BEGINNING CURRENT MONTH CLOSES TODAY STOP OVER TEN MILLION
2
3
PEDPLE PARTICIPATED EVENT PARA
4
5
28 EUROPEAN WAR ROUNDUP LISBON 12/8 1ML LISBON 12/8
6
7
WARROUNDUP FIRST COLON ANGLDAMERICAN TRDOPS MEETING STIFF
8
9
RESISTANCE AXIS FORCES SICILYISE AT THREE FOCAL POINTS
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 178874

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
UR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
LIFORNIA
ORS
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
FREQ KC
CMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IMN
DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
NAMELY NORTH ETASTECOABH D CE TRAL SECTOR STOP REGARDING
A
SICILIAN SITUATION GERMAN COMMUNIQUE SAID MJORSCALE ANTI-
AXIS LANDING ATTEMPT WEST CAPE ORLA DO NORTHER! COAST
SICILY FOILED IN COOPERATION WITH LUFT"AFFE STOP SAID
0200
MAJORITY ANTIAXIS LANDING TROOPS NEVER REACHED COAST ETFEW
H
FORMATIONS WHICH MANAGED DISEMBARK ENCIRCLED ***NNISILATED
STOP ADDITIONAL BERLIN REPORTS STATED ANGLOAMLRICAN IN
AREA BRONTE LAUNCHED ATTACK AGAINST AXIS POSITION *****
ALMOST UNNEGOTIABLE MOUNTAIN DISTRICTS CENTRAL SECTOR ISLAND
ETSENT BACKREELING BY ITALOGERMAN DEFENSE AFTER SUFFERING
S
HEAVY CA*UALTIES WHILE ANGLOAMERICAN S*ORCES ON EASTERN
COASTAL ROAT*S**** SERIOUS DEFEAT IN ATIEMPT SURROUND AXIS
E
ORMATIONS BY **ROSSING EASTER SLOPE ETNA MOUNTAINS
**************
PARA
( )
29 ADD ITEM 28 LML 29 ADD ITEM 28 EUROPEAN WAR ROUNDUP
s
1
SECOND COLON MEANWHILE ITALIAN COMMUNIQUE DISCLOSED ITALIAN
2
3
TORPEDO PLANES ACTIVE OFF COASTS SICILY SCORED DIRECT HITS CN
ONE ANTIAXIS CRUISER OF TENTHOUSAND TONS WELLS ANOTHER CRUISER
7
OF FIVETHOUSAND TONS BESIDES DAMAGING THREE MERCHANTSHIPS STOP
9
OTHERHAND STRONG FORMATIONS ITALOGERMAN BOMBER UNITS
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATN 

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
12718
CALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
TFORNTAOBS
CALL
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
FMN
DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
ANALYBT
INDEXLD BY
Mo SHOREY
GMT
LAUNCHED CONCENTRATED LARGESCALE NIGHT ATTACKS AGAIST ANGLO-
A
AMERICAN AIRFIELDS SOTHEST ISLAND BLASTING ANTIAXIS PLANES
AGRDUND DESTROYING SETTING AFIRE FUEL ETAMMUNITION DUMPS
SAID BERLIN REPORTS STOP GERMAN COMMUNIQUE ON SOVFRONT
REVEALED GREAT DEFENSE BATTLE CONTINUING BIELGOROD AREA
U
WHITE SOUTHWEST OREL SOVATTACKS DOWNBOGGED BEFORE ARD
GERMAN DEFENSE STOP CONTINUED SDUTH ETSOUTHWEST VYAZMA
SOVIETS RENEWED ATTACKS WHILE SECTORS MIU**TMIDDLE DON.TZ
REMAINED PASSIVE (MORE) PARA
ITEM 29 WAR ROUNDUP LAST COLON
30 ADD ITEM 29 11 30 AD
HU
SAID SOVIET YESTE DAY LOST HENDREDTWO TANKS WHICH PROVING
NO MATCH FOR POERFUL GERMAN TIGER TANKS STOP ADDED LIGHT
GERMAN NAVAL FORCES NIGHT PRECEDING AUGUST ELEVENTH SANK
ONE SOVIET GUNBOAT ONE MTBOAT HEAVILY DAMAGING ANOTHER
IN WATERS OFF CAUCASUS STOP GERMAN COMMUNIQUE DISCLOSED
s
1
FORMATION HEAVY GERMAN BOMBERS UNLEASHED DESTRUCTION OVER
2
3
PORT PLYMOUTH WELLS MILITARY TARGETS BOURNEMOUTH WITH
4
5
LARGE NUMBER HIGH EXPLOSIVES ETINCENDIARIES DURING NIGHT
6
7
PRECEDING AUGUST TWELFTH STOP BRITISH QUARTERS ADMITTING
8
9
GERMAN RAID STATED LARGEST FORCE GERMAN PLANES OVER ENGLAND
10
PAT. NO. 17704
TO UNIT:

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.94)
S1X
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
_FILE
ACTIN TAKFN
12718
FILE
FRFQ KC
CALIFORNIA
FRFQKC
FREO KC
NAT
FREOKC
FADF
RST
WEIA
GNAL DFSCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GMI
IN MONTHS ATTACKED SOUTH **OUTHWEST COAST TOWNS ENGLAND
SBCAS
CAUSING DAMAGE C**UALTIE ADDING RESC**** SEAR*RHING
DEBRIS FOR KILLED WOUNDED PAIA
31 TOKY0 13/8 1ML 31 T0KY0 1 /8 L AR D ***************
0227
*************×****EIGHT AN GUARTEF PCD (GOAL CET FOR
AMOUN FISH SHELLFISH BE CXUGHT SYEAR AT RECEIT MEETING
NATIONAL FISHING PROGRAM CO ITTEE HELD UNDE AUSPICES
N
ATIONAL FEDERATI********** A-SDCIATION PARA
32 TOKYO 13/8 1ML 32 TCKYO 13/
LEARNED ELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION LIAISON COUNCIL DECIDED
CONSTRUCT THIRTYSIX WATERPOWEF STATIONS AND ONE STEAMPOWER
STATIDN DURING CURENT EISCAL YEAR STOP SAID ***NRESENTA-
R
R
TIVE COMMUNICATIONS COMMECE ETINDUSTRY ETHOO MINISTBIES
R
PRESENT MEETING STOP DURING MEETING AGBEEMENT VIEWS
( )
REACHED REGARDING EFFE**TING CLOSER COOPERATION AMONG
s
1
VARIOUS GOVERNMENT OFFICES TO*L**INATE DIFFICULTIES OBTAINING
2
3
MATERIALS FOR CONSTRUCTION NEW PROJECTS STOP MEANTIME
4
5
COMMUNICATION MINISTERS ORDER FOR ESTABLISHMENT POWER
6
7
STATIONS EXPECTED BE ISSUED SOMETIME SMONTH END BT
0:
FURUNO DOMEI AR
10
0225
NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
BEVEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
43
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
ALIFORNIA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT..
FREQ KC
TT
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
NAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
BY:
M. SHOREY
INDEX:D BY
NALYBT
GMT
CQ DE JUP/JUQ
0600
PRESS DE JUP/UUQ HR NY BC AT 15 13/8 BI
COPYRIGHT DOMEI
03 SHANGHAI 13/8 1ML 3 SHANGHAI 33/8
WANGCHINEWEI PRESIDENT GOUVLRNEME T HATI AL CHINE QUI
SEJOURNAIT DANS CTIVILLE DEPUIS 29/7 PARTIT CEMATINEPOUR
NANKING TOP COURS SON SEJOUR SHANGHAIWISE PRESIDENT WANG
DECIDA MESURES FONDAMENTALES PRENDRE POU RECONSTRUCTICN
SHANGHAI SUITE RETROCESSION CONCESSICNS INTERNATIONALE ET
FRANCAISE SHANGHAI PARA
4 TOKY0 13/8 LI 04 TOKYO 13/8 CONFEFENCE MINISTRE
AFFETRAN ERES MAMORU SHIGEMITSU QUI EUT LIEU H*R*AVEC
LIE
AMBASSADEURS ALLEMAGNE ITA*** RAPRELLERA ETATSUNIS ANGLETERRE
QUE RECENT CHANGEMENT POLITIQUE ITALIE NAFFECTE ENRIEN
( )
SOLIDARITE PUISSANCES AVE DECLARE NIPPON TIMES DANS ENITO-
IG
1
RIAL CEMATIN STOP JOURNAL SOULEANE GCUVERNEMENT BADOGLIO
2
3
ETABLIT CLAIREMENT DECISION STALIE COMBATTRE NONSEULEMENT
4
H
5
CONTRE TERMES PAIX SUMILIANTS MAIS AUSSI CONTRE IFILTRA-
0
6
7
TION INFLUENCE ANGLOAMERICAINE SUR CONTINENT EUROPEEN STP
8
9
PROPAGANDE ANGLOAMERICAINE QUI CHERCHA COURBER ITALIE SOUS
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 1788704

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.94)
BE EIGHT
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
80543
ACTION TAKFN
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
CALIFORNIA
FREQ KC
NA
FRFO KC
1
FREO KC
MN
FADF
RST
wrM
SIGNAL
OFSCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
GM1
SONJOUG SUTANT ADCONCLUSIRN QUE LISSOLUTIC PARTI FASCISM
LIALIE
FUT DESAVOUE* STOP NIPPONTIMES
SIE**NIFIAIT REDDITIN *****
RHE
CONCLUT FERME RE**LUTION PUISSANCES AXE POURSUIVRE GUIRBEZ
N
***
*水**水水水水*小水水水水水水水*
JUSQUA VICTORE FIRALE FUIEAOULIGNEE
****** ET EN SORTIT FORTIFIEE PARA
05 BANGKDK 12/8 LL 5 B NGK K 1C/8 SUBHAS CHANDRA BDSE
PRESDENT LIGUE PROINDEPENDA CE I DESEASIE DRIE*ALEWISE
FIT JOURDHUI DECLARATICN PAR ENTPE ISI FILIAL**CTIGUE
BANGKOKWISE CO'CE NANT ENTREVUE QUIL EUT 4/8 AVEC PREMIER
K
THAILANDAIS MARECHAL PABUN SF GIHRA STCP DANS CTDECLARATICN
S
CHANDRA BOSE DIT N******** QUCTE COURS ***RE CCNVERSATION
NOUS DICUTAMES PROBLEMES INTERET COMMUN THAILANDE ET
S*IVAIT
F
0615
INDES STOP INORMAI SONNXCELLENCE QUE PEUPLE*NDIEN S*I*IT
AVEC GRAND INTERET TRAVAIL E***ECTUKED SOUS DIRECTIVES
ECLAIREES SO**EXCELLENCE DEPUI* ECLATEMENT GUERRE PLUS
s
ORANDEASI* STOP PEUPLE INDIEN HABET BEA****** INTERET
1
2
THILANDEWAR***R GOUVERNEMENT THAILANDAIS ACCORDA AIDE
3
HOSPITALAERE AD MOUVEMENT INDEPENDANCE INDES STOP DIT
AUSSI AIDE LONNEE PAR THAILANDE OU*QUELLE DONNE NOUS EST
PRECIEUSE CAR THAILANDE SETROUVE TOUT**RES ANDES ET PRPEUPLE
10
INDIEN NOUBLIERA JAMAIS CONCOURS RECU PAR THAILAND* STOP
SON EXCELLENCE ME PO** QUESTIONS SUR MOUVEMENT INDEWISE
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.97)
NINE
-DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
80543
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS
GALIFARNIAUBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
Tπ
FREO KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
BY:
M. SHOREY
INDEXLD BY
ANALYBT
GMT.
ETAUSSI NOS EFFOR** FAITS EXTERIEUR I DES ENCEQUI CONCERNE
NATI NAL IDIENNE
LIGUE PROINDEPENDANCE IDE* ET ARMEE
STOP SON EXCELLENCE IT GCUVLR L E T ET NATI N THAILANDAIS
EPROUVENT S*MPATHIE
PRCFONDE E VERY* CUVEMET INDEPLDANCE
0
INDES ET SOT PRETS FAIRE
ONNIPOSSIBLE PUR NOU: AIDER REALISER
NOTRI ASPIRATION**CU**IFE UGUDTE
PAA
06 SA1GC13/1 6 A160 15/8
E
GOUVERNEENT PROVINCIAL COCHI CINA PROMULGUA HIER DECIET
PR
FIXANT **IX OFFICIELS EXPORTATION AINSIQUE PRIX VENTE
H
GROS DETAIL RIZ DANS DISTRICT: SAIGON COLON STOP DECRET
LIMITE SIMILTANEMENT STCCK RIZ CHEZ DETAILLANTS AD DEUX-
MILLE KGMS STOP CSMESURES FURENT PRISES POUR FACILITER
EXPORTATIONS RIZ EMPECHANT DISPARITION EXMARCHES PUBLICS
RIZ ADEXPORTER STOP GOUVEFNEMENT INDOCHINOIS FIXA ALYA
D
( )
QUELQUE TEMPS PRIX OFFICICLS RIZ NON DECORTIQUES ET SYSTEME
s
1
SUBVENTION DESTINEE FACILITER PEN**ANN SAISON TRANSPORT RIZ
2
3
NONDECORTIQUED EXDISTRICTS PRODUISANT RIZ MAIS CSMESURLS
4
5
NEFURENT PAS ENTIEREMENT SATISFAISANTES PARA
6
LLE
7
07 MANIKE 12/8 LML 07 MANILLE 12/8
8
9
ONAPPREND APFRXIMATIVEMENT QUATREVINGTMILLE HABITANTS
10
N
A
MANILLE FURENT EXAMINEDS ET RECURE TRA*******PPROPRIEDS
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1790704

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.97)
TEN
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
0543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALT
FREQ KC
CALIFORLIA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT-
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS
M. SHOREY
ANALYET:
GMT:
EAU
CONTRE TUBERCULOSE GRACE BURUU
SANTE COMPRENANT SECTICN
TUBERCULESE ETABLI ICI ILYA SIX CIS STOP AVANT CREATION
CEBUREAU SEULEMENT VINGTSIX ILLE LERSONNES AVAIENT PU
ETRE EXAVINEES A***EE DER IEIE STOP ATORITES JATE
PUBLIQUE SOULIGNENT DERNILFS
CHIFFRES NESIFNIFILNT PAS
AUGMETATI
N CAS TUBERCULOUL AD
ANILLE
MAIS REVELET
0630
SEULEMENT NOMBRE ACCRU PERSDUNES TRAITEES STOP TATISTIQES
REVELENT ENTFE JANVIER JUIN CTANNLE SLCTIC TUBERCULOSE
TRAITA SEPTILLE
CINQOENTDOUZE PENES ET SCIGNA
DANS DISPENSAIRE
ATRECETNEUF QUATRECETNEUF MALADES
TANDISQUE QUATRECENT QUATREVINGTTREIZE F
FURENT SCIGNEDS
CHEZ EUX ET QUATRECENTDIXHUIT ENVOYEDS SANATURIUN STCP
BUREAU SANTE REVEL
ECALELT ILLEHUITCETS CUSTIUAIRES
SERONT DISTRIBU ES GRAT ITEET FAI SOCILTE PHILIP INE
( 1
ANTIMANIRIA DANS
OMNIILLS ET PARTICULIEREMENT PENINSULE
s
A
1
BATAAN STOP COMITE PREVENTION MALDIES CONTAGIEUSES
2
IE
3
TIENDRA REUNION POUR QUATRIEMEFOIS MAIRER AFIN DISCUTER
4
5
MESURES CONTRE EPIDEMIE CHOLERA QUI SUIT GENERALEMENT
6
7
SAISON PLUIE AUX PHILIPPINES FIN BT
8
9
FURUNO DOMEI AR
10
0653
NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788764

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.96)
ELEVEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
0543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
CALIFFIA
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
FREOKC
221
FRFO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
M. SHOREY
ANAIYST
GMI
CQ DE JUP/JUQ
0700
PRES. DE JUP/JUQ HR NW BC AT 18DE 13/8 BT
COPYRIGHT DONEI
52 MANILA 12/8 ML 52 MANILA 1/8
E
LUMBER INDUSTRY FIRST COLON REORGANIZD ETCENTRALIZED TO MEIT
EVER EXPANDING DEMANDS PHILIPPIES PUMER I DUSTRY
CONTRIBUTING GREATLY RECC STTI NEW FHILIPHIE TAS
REPCRTED BY FLORLNCIC TAI ESIS RPT FLORENCIO TA ESIS
DIRECTOR BUREAU FCRESTRY ETFISHERY ECTIC CF AGRICULTURE
AND COMM RCE BUREAU STOP RAFID RESTORATION OV-RLA D TRAN-
SPORTATIIN SLRVICE CONSTRUCTION CODEN SHIPS PHILIPPI ES
WISE RECONST UCTION CITIES ETTOWNS LAID WASTE BY FLTREATING
C
AMERICAN FORCES ALL DUE EFFICIENEY SERVICE RENDERED BY
REVAMPED LUMBER INDUSTRY DIRECTOR SAID STOP REVEALED
FIRST SIXMONTHS AFTER RESUMPTION OPERATIONS FIFTEEN
s
1
SAWMILLS LUZON ISLAND ALONE PRODUCED ALMOST EIGHTMILLION
2
3
FIVEHUNDRED THOUSAND BDARDFEET ETCUT TIMBER TOTALLING
4
T
5
OVER NINETYSEVEN THOUSAND CUBICMEERS STOP SACHIEVEMENT
ACCOMPLISHED THROUGH ORGANIZATION LUMBER PRODUCERS ASSD-
CIATION WHICH SUCCEEDED INCREASING DUTPUT REDUCING MARKETING
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.97)
TWELVE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
GALIFORNIAOBS
WORKS
CALL
FREQ'KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
M.SHOREY
INDEXED BY
ANALYET
GMT
COSTS (MCRE)BY PARA
53 ADD ITEM 52 LUMBLF I DUTEY SECO D :AST COLC
EORGANIZING LUMBER INDUSTRY CLATRAL SCTHERLUZO
ETBICOL REGIONS DIVIDED I TO T INTYONE LUME:R DISTRICTS
DIRECTUR SAID STOP ADDED TIS PLANNED OFGANIZE SI ILAR
DISTRICTS VICAYAS ETMINDANAO STOP SAID VARIUS RECI NS
THEN BE GROUPED I TO FEDERATICN FOREST PRODUCTS PRODUCERS
STOP MEANWHILE FOREST CONCLSSICS FORNERLY HELD BY ENEMY
NATI NALS PLACED UNDEF PHILIPINE
LUMBER UNION WHICHS
WORKING CLOSE COMLA ORATION LUMBER ASSOCIATION STOP ASIDE
SUPPLYING CONSTRUCTION NEEDS LUMBLR ASSOCIATION AIN
SOURCE FIRE COD CHARCOAL ETATCRIAL FOR OODEN SHOLS
ETSLIPPERS COMMA ONE RECENTEST FLOURISHING INDUSTRIES
STOP CONCLUDIC FLPORT TA ESIS DECLARED WITH CENTRALIZA-
0715
TICN LUMBER I DUSTRY AND PROMISE OF RICH MARKETS EASTASIA-
WISE PHILIPPINE LUMBER INDUSTPY FACES BRIGHTEST FUTURE
2
3
HISTORY PARA
54 T0KY0 13/8 LML 54 TOKY0 13/8
CENTRAL ELECTRIC POWER ADJUSTMENT COMMISSION AT ITS SIXTH
CONFERLNCE HELD YESTERAFTERNDON AT COMMUNICATIONS MINISTRY
10'
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788704

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.95)
RTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
ALIFORIA
FRFO KC
101
FRFOKI
FRLOKY
CADE
RST
WP…A
N
JIGNAL DFSCRIPTION
MSHOREY
CM
HERE APPROVED DRAFT OF ASIC PLA S FORFORCEMI NT REGULA-
COSUMPTICN AFTIF OCTOBER
TIONS REGARDING ELECTRIC PO E
SYEAR STOP CCNFEFENCE ATTDE PARCCMUNICATIONS IICTER
KEN TERAS IMA L KEN TIRASHI A CHAIRMAN AND E BER CCM
MISSION OTHER OFFICIALS C CEFNED TOP SALIE T PCITS OF
BASIC PLANS INCLUDE ASSURA CE ELECT IC POWEF SUPPLY UN ER
PRICRITY PRINCIPLE TO VITAL I"DUSTRIES INCLUDING IRON
ETCOAL MINING LIGHMETAL AUFACTURING SHIPBUILDING AIRCRAFT
MANUFACTUFING ROLLINGSTCCK ANUFAUTURING STAPLE FOODSTUFFS
MANUFACTURIUG STOP IT ALSO PROVIDES EXCESSIVE ELECTRIC
CHARGED EXTRA
POWER CONSUMED BY NONPRICRITY INDUSTRIES "ILL
WHICH SIMIDAR TO PRESENT SYSTEM APPLIED ONLY CN ELECTRICLIGHT
SERVICE STOP OFFICIALS EXPECT NE REGULATIC S ON ELECTRIC
POWER CONSUMPTICN ILL SMOOTHLY ADJUST DMAND SUPPLY
SITUATION IN COMING THIRD ETFCURTH QUARTERS MOF CURRENT
s
1
FISCAL YEAR STOP EXPECTED PRESENT ELECTRIC LIGHT ETPOWER
2
3
REGULATIONS WILL REVISED ACCORDINGLY SHORTLY PARA
4
5
55 SA1GON 12/8 LML 55 SA1GON 12/3
6
7
FIC COTTON FIRST COLON
8
9
WITH VIEW ACCELERATING DELIVERIES OF UNGINNED COTTON BY
10
2
PAT: NO 
TO UNIT:

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.96)
FOURTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
12718
ACTIONTAKIN
FILE
CALIFORNIA
FRFO KC
OBS
FREQ KC
FREO KC
NAT
r1
FREO KC
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
MN
M. SHOREY
GM1
GROWERS TO GINNING ILLS GOVTGE ERAL FRE CH IDOCHI A
TODAY PROMULGATED DECREE RAISI'C PURCHASING IRICES U GINED
VE
COTTON FIFTY FERCENT ABCVE THAT CF Y STEIYEAR STOP
DECREE
STIPULATES PRICE FOR SHORT STAPLE GINNED COTTO PEI UINTAL
ONEZEROFIVE PIASTRES AT GROWEAS YARDS I AAM AND TONKIN
FOR ONEONEZERO PIASTIES I CCCHINCHINA DELIVEFED GINING
FACTORIES CETWENTY PIASTRES IN CAMBODIA DELIVIFD GINING
FACTORIES AD ONEHUNDRED IASTRI I LAOS STOP COMPARED
YESTLRYEARS PRICES OF SIXTYFIVE PIASTRES I T KIN AND
S
ANNAM SEVENTY PIATRES IN COCHINCHINA SEVE TYFIVE PIASTRES
IN CAMBODIA AND SIXTYT O PIASTRES I LAOS SYEARS PURCHASING
PRICES REPRESENT INCREASE
OF
MOREN FIFTY PERCENT (MORE)
PARA
0730
56 ADD ITEM 55 FIC COTTON 1L 56 ADD ITEM 5 FIC COTTON
SECOND LAST
s
1
CONSIDERING FACT PRICES CASTORBEANS GROUNDNUTS TOBACCD-
2
3
LEAVES BEEN UNCHANGED FRDM THOSE YESTERYEAR THIS INCREASE
5
IN PRICES COTTON REFEECTS EARNESTNESS GOVTGENERAL FOR
7
BOOSTING COTTON PRODUCTION STOP THIS HIGH RATE INCREASE
8
IN PRICE DESIGNED PREVENT FARS POSSIBLE HOME CONSUMPTION
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARING ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.96)
BIFTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS
SPACE
543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALIFORNIA
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ'KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
IND
M. SHOREY
INDEXED CY
ANALYUT
GMT:
BY COTTON GROERS ALD FCSTEFS DELIV PIES TC IIC
FACTCRIES
STOP CCTTON CROP FREH I DCCHI AISE SYEAR
ESTIMATED APPROXIMATELY SVLNTHCUSAND TOI HEREFRO
NORMALLY ONLY ABOUT TWOTHCUSAND TONS CINNED COTTO
OBTAINABLE STOP HOWEVCR PRESE'T
EASUFE RAISING PURCHA
SING PRICE
E UNCINNED CCTTO:EE ADOPTED O'DE SECUHE ETIFE
SEVENTHCUSAND TONS FOR CIVNIG FACTORIES
INASNUCH GINNED
COTTON ESSENTIAL FCR WAR SUPPLI S AND HOLE
INDUSTFIES END
BT
0735
FURUNO·DC EI AR
NM TU DE JUP/JUC VA
CQ DE JUP/JUQ
0800
PRESS DE JUP/JU HR N BC AT 17: AUC 13TH BT
COPYRIGHT DOEI
13 SHANGHAI 13/8 LL COPYRIGHT DI EI 13 SHANGHAI 13/C
1
PRESDENT WANGCHINGWEI HO BEEN VISITING SHANGHAI SINCE
2
3
29/7 LEFT HERE FDR NANKING SMORING STOP DURING STAY HERE
PRESIDENT WANG DIRECTED ADOPTION OF VARIOUS MEASURES FOR
RECON STRUCTION SHANGHAI FOLLOWING RETROCESSION INTER-
NATNAL SETTLEMENT AND FRENCH CONCESSION PARA
10
)
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 174

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.95)
SIXTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
CALIFORNIA
FREO KC
OBS
FREQ KC
FREOKC
17
FREOKC
FADF
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION
111
M.SHOREY
(GMI
14 SHONAN 13/8 
R
STIRING JAPANESE SONG QUOT RAIN AT LANDIG POI T  OTE
WORDS WHEREDF COMPOSED Y BLIETENAT JITSUJI
AEKAWA
RPT JITSUJI AEKAA LIC Y CFL CCHARENGUIFEL PT OEL
SCHARENGUIVEL LOCAL SCHDOL TLACHE
TAKE CITY BY STORN
STOP MAEKAWA WHD FORMERLY SCL CL ASTE IMMEDIATELY ANSWEFED
IS CCUNTRYS CALL ENLISTE) I AI Y W EN "AP DECLAL ED I
DUE COURSE FOUDSLF ITHICK OF ACTI SOUTHRN
S
FRONT STOP HE UBSEQUENTLY DRAFTED TO SHONAN AND STRUCK
UP GREAT FRIENDSHIP ITH SCHARENGUIVEL WHD MUSIC TEACHER
ATTACHED TO PUBLIC SCHOOL STOP AEKAWA SHOWED SCHARENGUIVEL
VERSES WHICH HE WROTE AND ASKED TEACHER IF HE CULD LIKE
TO SET MUSIC WHERESPON MUSIC TEACHER GLADLY ASSENTED WITH
RESULT NEW SONG BORN STOP WRITTEN IN MARCH TEMPO FIRST
( )
VERSE SONG DESCRIBES LIFE NIPPON SOLDIERS WHO AFTER
s
ER
1
LEAVING HOME ON ACTIVE SEBVICE CROSSES STRMY SEA TO ARRIVE
2
3
AT SOUTHERNMOST FRONT STOP SUBSEQUENT VERSES RELATE HOW 
HE BATTLES BRAVELY THROUGH RAIN PARA
0
7
15 BYLINE JORGE TEDORO MANILA 13/ LL BYLINE JORGE
9
TEODORO MANILA 13/8
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCIPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO: 178066

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.97)
SEVENTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALIFORNIA
CA11
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
M. SHOREY
INDEXFD BY
ANALYBT
GMT:
IMMINENT GRANT PIILIPPINE
INDEPENDECE
BY NIFPOIVES
IRONIC TOUCH TC QUOTE ALIICA OCCUPATIAY UPTE
W
HICH FORMERLY OBSLEVE COMORATI UNISTATE CONQUET
ISLANDS FORTYFIVE YEARS ACC TC AY TCF INSTEAD ARKI G
Z
CONTINUES DOMINATI FILLIPI OS TIDAY YVBOLIZES DAY
LIBERATION FROM AGEOLD CCCIDE TAL RULE TCF TI I DEED
UNBELILVAULE THAT FOUR DECADES AFTE UNISTATES CNSTEPPED
OUR SOIL TO WREST AWAY CUR FREEDD ELL ONCE  ORL FLGAI
IT STOP FOR THIS PRICELESS BOON
EVE CNLY NIPPON TO THANK
STOP FALL MANILA SIGNALIZED UISTATEO OCJUPATI
PHILIPPINES AND EXTENSION AERICA IP RIALIS: EATASIA-
H
WISE STOP TODAY FORTMFIVE YEARS LATER ANILA ETPHILIPPINES
WILL
SOON ITNES GREAT SPECTACLE NE NATIIN RISING TO
TAKE
E ITS PROPER PLACE AMONG CONCERT FREE SOVEREIGN COUNTRIES
OF WORLD STOP GIGANTIC TASK UPBUILDING INDEPENDENT PHILI-
( )
PPINES LEAVES NO TIE FOR RECRIMINATI NS BUT FILIPINOS
1
2
WILL NEVEI FORGET UNISTATES DUPLICITY FORTYFIVE YEARS
3
4
AGO WHEN PHILIPPINES CAPITAL TAKEN AWAY FRDM THEM BY
5
6
AMERICA STOP THINKING THEY WERE FRIENDS ETALLIES FILIPINDS
7
8
HELPED AMERICANS CAPTURE MANILA BUT ONCE TASK ACCOMPLISHED
9
M
10
FILIPINDS LEFT OUT ETNOT EVEN PERITTED ENTEP
OWN CITY
TO UNIT.
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788786

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.96)
EIGHTEEN
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
0543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKIN
CALIFCINIA
RFOKC
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREO KC
NAT
I
FREOKC
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL. DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
STOP THIS ONE DARKEST CHAPTEFS PHILIPPINE HISTORY STOP
AMERICANS ENDED EXISTENCE FIRT PILIPPINE REPUBLIC HICH
FILIPINOS ESTABLISHED AFTEF MUCH FIGHTI G BLCODSHED AND
ITEAD DELIVERING FILIPINDL ACCCRDIG THEIR AVOWED ROISE
THEY SETTLE HERE PERPETUATE THEIR RULE STOP FOR OREN
FORTY YEARS AFTER OCCUPATI:ILIPNCS
TRIED UTT EFFORTS
RECOVER LOST SOVEREICNTY SUT I TATES COMA IT VARIED
PRETENSICNS COMMA REFUSED  RAT IT STOP CUTBREAK GREATER
EASTASIA WAR SAW UNONLY EXPULLIOT UNILTATES FRO ISLA DS
BUT DELIVL ANCE FILIPIND PECFLIS HICHLL BE CO SUMATED 
SOON WHEN NIPPON GRANTS PHILIPPINES INDEPENDENCE SICF
THUS WHAT WOULD A**THER AMERICAN DCCUPATION DAY MAY
ELL BE LIBEATION DAY FOR PHILIPPINES PARA
U
16 TA1YAN 12/: LML 16 TA1YUAN 12/8
COMPOSITE WA RESULTS GAINED B JAPANESE UNIT OPERATING
s
1
AGAINST CHUNGKING AND COMMUNIST TROOPS IN SHANSI PRDVINCE
2
3
FOR JULY FOLLOW FIRSTLY ENEMY DEAD LEFT BEHIND ONETHOUSAND
FIVEFOURZERO CHUNGKINGERS FOURFIVETWO COMMUNISTS SECONDLY
PRISONERS TAKEN THREESIXZERD CHUNGKINGERS FORTYFOUR
COMMUNISTS STDP JAPANESE UNIT ALSO SEIZED LARGE QUANTITY
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS (,) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATNO

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.97)
GE NINETEEN
DO
NOT WRITE IN
THIS
SPACE
180543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE12718
CALLFORIA
CAI!
WORKS
FREQKC
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTICN:
EMN
M. SHOREY
INDEXED DY
GMT:
WAR BOOTY PARA
"ELL
17 S NAN 13/8  17 A 1 /LPIFORD QUART
DECLARED ETHAJI SUBHA CHADPASSL PFCSI ET I DIA
INDEPENDECE L AGUE DIIS LECE T TEIF BURMA TILAND
ALB ACHIEVE
VARICUS RESULT WHI H GRLAT I PCETA CE
IDIAN
INDEPENDENCE
CAMPAICNLTO
BLI'VETCTADIG ACIEVETS
DURING TRIP SUMMARIZED FIFS TRY COIVERSATIS ITH
COMMANDERINCHIEF NIPPON FCRCES BURMAISE ENABLED OSE
OBTAIN REALISTIC GRASP VARI US CCVDITIC S HICH *OULD
ACTUALLY ATTEND INDIAN ARMED OFFE SIVE AGAI ST BRITISH
INDIAWISE SECC DLY AS RESULT CONVERSATIC"S BOSE AND HIS
LIEUTENANTS NCW IN POSITICN IMMEDIATELY EMBARK DRAFTING
OF CONCRETE STRATEGIC PLANS FOR OFFENSIVE AGAINST BR7TISH
W
INDIAWISE THIRDLY MEETINGS WITH BAMAW OTHER LEADERS BURMA-
( )
WISE RESULTED IN COMPLETE UNITY IN VIEWS THEREBY INSURING
s
1
BURMAS ALLOUT ASSISTANCE TO INDIAN NATICNAL ARMY IN ITS
2
3
FIGHT AGAINST BRITISH FOURTHLY MLITING WITH THAI PREMIER
4
5
HAS RESULTED IN ASSURANCE THAILANDS FULL SUPPORT TO ***AN
6
7
NATICNAL ARMY FIFTHLY ENTHUSIASM DISPLAYED BY INDIAN
8
9
NATIONALS RESIDING BURMA THAILAND INDICATES THEYLL TURN
10
TO LINIT.
PAT. NO. 1788784

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.95)
TWENTY
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
ACTION TAKFN
CALIFORIA
OBS
REQKC
FREO KC
こへ
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
10111
M.SHOREY
C,M1
OUT ENMASSE TO MARCH WITH DINDIAN NATIO AL AFMY ONTC VEW
DELHI SOONS COMMAND GIVEN TO OVE FORVARD FARA
18 SAIGO! 13/8 PROVINCIAL L 1 SAIGO 1/
PEOVINCIAL
COCHINCHINA
A
GOVERNMENT COEHYNHINA YESTRDAY PROMULGTED DECREEFIXIG
OFFICIAL EXPORT PRICES WILL HOLESALE AND RLTAIL PRICES
OF RICE IN SAIGOI CHOLON DISTRICTS WIICH PRINCIPAL CON-
UMING MARKETS STOP SAID NE DECFLE ECES ITATED TO
SMOOTHER EXPORTS RICE JY PREVENTING EXPORT RICE DRAINED
FRON OPEN ARKET DUE ABSECE
OFFICIAL PRICES JOP RECALLABLE
FRENCH INDOCHINA
CCVERNE T CMTI E AGO FIXED OFFIAIAL
PRICES OF UNHULLED CICE ETAYE SUBSIDY SYST TO EXPEDITE
TRANSPORTATION I BETWEE SEASON OF UNHULLID RICE EXRICE
D
PRODUCINC ISTRICTS BUT THESE EASU ES PROVED NCT RPT NOT
FULLY SATISFACTORY PARA
( )
19 T0KY0 13/8 ML 19 10KY0 13/8
s
1
LEARNED FORNMINISTER MAMORU SHIGEMITSU REPORTED REGULAR
2
3
CABINET MEETING SMORNING ON EUROPEAN SITUATION STOP
FOLLOWING THIS CABINET MINISTERS EXCHANGED VIEWS ON
DIPLOMATIC OTHER PROBLEMS STOP RECALLABLE HIGEMITSU
AD
CONFERRD WITH TALOGERMAN AMBASSOR YESTERDAY PARA
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT: NO. 17896

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
TWENTY-ONE
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
12713
FILE
ACALIFORIA
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
CMN
M. SHOREY
nv:
INDEXED BY
ANAIYET
GMT:
2D APANESE BASE
IN SEUTHIFNACIFIL12JAPAESE
BASE IN SOUTHERN PACIFIC 12/
LEARNED DETECTING GROUPS I NEMY TORPEDOBOATS CPLIATING
SEAS AROUND SOLOMON ISLANDS EAPLANE UIIT OF IPPON VAVY
U
OBTAINED REMARKABLE WAR RESLT AGAINST E E Y CIAFT FRO
Y: STEREVENING UPTO  IDNIGHT STOP IY SEAS EIGHORHOODWISE
WANA WANA
OFF
SOUTHWESTLEAT KULA GULF EY
TORPEDO BCAT
WAS SUNK Y DIRECT BCD HITO LY CPE ATIG
NIPPON SLAPLANES STOF CPOTTI ANOTHI GROUP TORPEDOBBATS
IN WATERS WEST CIZC ISLA
IPPON SLAPLALS BLASTED HUMBEF
THEM STOP SAME
UNIT ALSC BOMBED MACHINEGUNLENLMY
TORPEDDBOATS WHICH RAIDIG NIPFON LANDING VESSELS IN
WILSON CHANNEL STOP IN WATERS NDRTH KOLOMBANGARA ISLAND
SAME SEAPLANE UNIT OUTCARRIED DARING ATTACKS AGAINST
ENEMY TOHPEDOBDATS WITH GCOD EFFECT STOP DURING SAMEDAY
1
ANOTHER UNIT IMPERIAL NAVY SEAPLANES RAIDED ENEY POSITIONS
2
3
NEIGHBORHOOD RICE ANCHORAGE AND ENOGAI INLET INFLICTING
4
5
SMASHING BLOW ENEMY MILITARY ESTABLISHMENTS STOP NO DAMAGE
6
7
WAS SUSTAINED BY  IMPERIAL NAVY SEAPLANES DURING THESE
8
0
9
ENCUTERS PARA
10
TO UNIT.
CONTINUE  CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1774

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.94)
-TWO
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
3
ACTION TAKEN
ILE 12718
RLGKC
ALIFORNIA
1a kC
OBS
NAT
FREO KC
FREO KC
FADE
RST
WPM
NAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHCREY
CMI
21 SHANGHAI 13/8 L 21 AHAI 1:/8
N PERSONNELESHUFFLE FORNMIISTRY OF NATIAL GOVEE T
CHINA ANNOUNCED HAUEH FENGYUAN DIRFCTOR ASIA URESU SPPCINTED
HEAD SHANGHAI OFFICE OF NATICNAL GOVERNMET SUCCEEDED BY
HSU ITSUNG DIFECTOR OF ITIANATIIAL SECTIN STOP OTHER
APPOINTMENTS INCLUDED CHANC CHIENGCHU DIRECTOR EUROPEAN
AMERICAN BURLAU AS SECRETAFY TO EIGHTH WARD (FOR ERLY
FRENCH CONCESSIOA) OFFICE SHANGHAI MUNICIPALITY JUCCEEDED
BY FAN FOKUNG COMMA TIAD YUHA AS DIRECTOR TRADE BUREAU
AND CHIANG CHIHHSUN AS CHIEF INTERNATIONAL SECTIC END BT
FURUNOEIAR
0858
NM TU DE JUP/JUQ VA
(END INTERCEPT)
( )
S
1
2
3
10
TO UNIT:
PATI NO: 

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
12718
ACTI)NTAKFN
CALIF.
FILE
590
FRFQ KC
FREOKC
13065
NAI
FREO KC
ESS
7
1
577
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL
DFSCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMT
(TRANSMISSION IN PROGRESS)
EXPLOIT THEM BY FORCE ARMS STOP SAID QUOTE AMERICAN IMPERIAL-
ISM BEEN SINCERE ETHONORABLE IN INTENTIONS IT SHOULDNT HAVE
2325
PLUNGED PHILIPPINES INTO THO WARS AFTER AUGUST THIRTEENTH
COMMA FIRST AGAINST ITSELF WHEREIN WE DEFEATED HUMILIATED
ETSECOND AGAINST NIPPON FELLOW ORIENIALS NATION WHICH DROVE
UNISTATES EXEASTASIA UNQUOTE CONTINUED QUOTE ON EVE OUR INDEP-
ENCE POSSIBLE THROUGH MAGNANIMITY JAPANESE EMPIRE WE CAN AP-
PRECIATED ANEW DIFFERENCE IN SIGNIFICANCES BETWEEN AMERI-
CAN OCCUPATION DAY OF AUGUST THIRDENTH AND NIPPONS FOR AMERI-
CANS CAME TO DOMINATE WHILE NIPPON CAME TO LIBERATE PARA
12 SHONAN 11/8 1ML SHONAN 11/8 STIRRING NIPPON SONG QUOTE
AME NO JORIKUTEN IMI AME NO JORIKUTEN UNQUOTE BRACKET RAIN
AT LANDING POINT UNBRACKET WORDS WHEREOF COMPOSED BY SUBLIEU-
TENANT JITSUJI MAEKAWA RPT JITSUJI MAEKAWA MUSIC BY NOEL
s
SCHARENGUIVEL RPT NOEL SCHARENGUIVEL LOCAL SCHOOL TEACHER
1
2
TAKEN CITY BY STORM STOP MAEKAWA WHO SCHOOLMASTER HIMSELF IN
3
4
NARA IML NARA PREFECTURE BEFORE OUTBREAK WAR IMMEDIATELY AN-
5
6
SWERED HIS COUNTRYS CALL ENLISTED IN ARMY WHEN WAR DECLARED
7
8
IN DUE COURSE FOUND HIMSELF IN THICK OF ACTION SOUTHERN
9
10
FRONT STOP HE SUBSEQUENTLY DRAFTED TO SHONAN L SHONAN AND
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
民

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.97)
No
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
980543
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT.
FREQ KC
TT.
GMT
IN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANALYET:
GMT
STRUCK UP GREAT FRIENDSHIP WITH SCHARENGUIVEL WHO MUSIC
TEACHER ATTACHED TO PUBLIC SCHOOL STOP MAEKAWA SHOWED SCHAR-
ENGUIVEL VERSES IMI SCHARENGUIVEL VERSES WHICH HE WROTE AND
ASKED TEACHER IF HE WOULL LIKE TO SET NUSIC WHEREUPON MUSIC
TEACHER GLADLY ASSENTED WITH RESULT NEW SONG BORN STOP WRIT-
TEN IN MARCH TEMPO FIRST VERSE SONG DESCRIBED LIFE NIP-
PON SOLDIERS WHO AFTER LEAVING HOME ON ACTIVE SERVICE CROSSES
STORMY SEA TO ARRIVE AT SOUTHERNMOST FRONT STOP SUBSEQUENT
VERSES RELATE HOW HE BATTLES BRAVELY THROUGH RAIN STOP TOGE-
THER WITH COMRADES DEFEATS ENEMY PARA
13 BANGKOK 12/8 1MI 13 BANGKOK 12/8 BOSE STATEMENT FIRST COL-
ON SUBHAS CHANDRA BSE PRESIDENT INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE
EASTASIAWISE MADE FOLLOWING STATEMENT THROUGH BANGKOK BRANCH
INDIAN INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE TODAY REGERDING HIS INTERVIEW WITH
*IELDMARSHAL PHIBUN SONGKHRAM PRIMEMINISTER THAILAND ON 4/8
COLON QUOTE EYE HAD LONG VERY FRIENDLY CONVERSATION WITH HIS
EXCELLENCY AND DURINGCOURSE CONVERSATION WE DISCUSSED PRO-
BLEMS COMMON INTEREST TOTHAILAND ANDINDIA FOR INSTANCE EYE
INFORMED HIS EXCELLENCY THAT PEOPLE INDIA WERE FOLLOWING WITH
GREAT INTEREST SYMPATHY WORK UNDER LEADERSHIP HIS EXCELLENCY
SINCE OUTBREAK WAR GREATER EASTASIA STOP INTEREST INDIAN
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788794

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.95)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
6543
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
43
FILE
12718
FREOKC
FREQ KC
FRFOKC
NAT
FRFO KT
EMN
RADF
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DFSCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
PEOPLES IN THAILAND INCRE ASED GREATLY BECAUSE THAI GOVERNMENT
GIVEN HOSPITALITY HELP TO ILIAN INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT (MORE)
PARA
4
1 ADD ITEM 13 1MI 14 A D ITEM 13 BOSE STATEMENT SECOND LAST
COLON EYE ALSO TOLD HISNXTNELLENCY THAT HELP THAILAND HAD
GIVEN AND WAS GIVING US WAS OF GREAT VALUE BECAUSE THATLAND
WAS VERY NEAR TO INDIA AND INDIAN PEOPLE WOULD NEVER FORGET
HELP THAT THEY WERE RECEIVINGFROM THAILAND STOP HIS EXCELLENCY
ASKED ME SEVERAL TIMES REGARDING MOVEMENT INDIAWISE AND ALSO
ABOUT OUR EFFORTS OUTSIDE INDIA IN CONNECTION WITH INDIAN
INDEPENDENCE LEAGUE AND INDIAN NATIONAL ARMY STOP HIS EXCEL-
LENCY TOLD ME THAT THAI GOVERNMENT AND THAI NATION HAD GREAT-
EST SYMPATHY WITH INDIAN INDEPENDENCE MOVEMENT AND WERE PREP-
ARED TO DO EVERYTHING THAT WAS POSSIBLE FOR THEM TO HELP US
TO ACHIEVE OUR INDEPENDENCE END BI
5
1
FURUNO DOMEI AR
2
2346
NM TO DE JUP/JUQ VA
9
to
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRICRITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATSND 

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.97)
ONE
DO
NOT WRITE IN
THIS
SPACE
30543
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
12718
CALIFORNIA
CALL
FREQ KC
OBS
WORKS
13065
CALI
FREQKC
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
2
565
25
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
IGNAL DESCRIPTION: DOMEI PRESS
EMN
M. SIIREY
INDF XED BY
ANAI YBT
GMT:
CQ DE JUP/JUQ VE
PRESS DE JUP/JUQ HP  BC AT AU 14TH T
2300
DOPYRIGHT DO EI 5 NANKIC 13/ 11 D0 L1.5 YANKI G 15/
CHINESE AQRICULTUE L YCUTH CORPS PRECDI BY TIG
T.UN
RPT TING TSUN IITLR
IAL LFARE ATIAL GOVT-
CHINA RETURNE HIAL TODAY TCP ARRIVIIG NIPPCN /
8/6 PARTY UNDERWENT STRICT TRAINI C AT AGRICULTURAL
MO
TRAINI G CAMP FOOT **UNT YATSU RPT YATSU STOP COURSE
HO*IP PARTY INSPLCTD AGRICULTUAL CPNDITISANCH
*UO VICINITY HSINKING
**************** 138
6 SHANGHAI 13/8
WANGS ACTIVITIES FIRST COLON PRESIDENT WANG CHINGWEIS
VISIT SHANGHAIWARD CUMOTHER LEADERS NATINAL GOVCRNMENT
0
CONTRIBUTED GREATLY TO BOLSTERING FINANCIAL STRUCTURE PRT-
CITY DNE DUTSTANDING RESULTS GREAT EFFORTS PRESIDENT WANG
5
1
PROPROMOTING COLLABORATION CODPERATIDN BETWEIN SHANGHAI
2
3
FINANCIERS ETNATIONAL GOVLENMENT FINANCIAL OBSERVERS HERE
4
5
OPINE STOP PRESIDENT WANGS ACTIVITIES STARTED 31/8 L
6
7
31/8 WHEN HE HAD LENGTHY INDIVIDUAL TALKS CUMTHREE
8
9
10
FINANCIAL MAGNATES HERE
NAMELY TANG SHDUMIN RPT TANG
2
TO UNIT.
CONTINUE -- CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.96)
AGE TWO
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
PROKC
CALIFCRIA
QKC
FREOKC
FREOKE
MN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
M. SHOREY
(M1
SHOUMIN CHOU TOOMIN RPT CHOU SOMIN WU CHENHSIU FPT U
CHENHSIU STOP DUFING CONFIFL CES PRESIDENT WANG CLARIFIED
LOFTY IDEALS ETFUTURE POLICY NATINAL GOV PNENT I
MANAGEMENT NEWLYBORN SHANGHAI ETEAGERLY SOUGHT ALLOUT
COOPERATION SHANGHAI FIA CIERE (MORE) PARA
7 ADD ITEM 6 L ITEM C WANGS ACTIVITIES SECO D CCLON
A
COURSE NANY IT RVIEWS CURTHER FIANCIL LEADERS PORTCITY
PRESIDENT WANG DISCUSSEP FLLY IIPOLTANT PRICE ETUNICIPAL
PROBLEMS CONFRONTI G PORTCITY ARD FRANK UNBIASED OFINIONS
M
THOSE AT HEL SHANGHAI ECONOLIC FIANCIAL ACTIVITIES
STOP HIGHLICHT ANGS VISIT PRTCITY CAE 7/E L 7/8 WHEN
PRESIDENT INVITED TEAPARTY PARKHOTEL ONILEADERS IN
VARIDUS SPHERES MUNICIPAL ACTIVITIES WHICH GE ERALLY
UNDERSTDOD GREATLY PROMOTED FEELING TRUST RELIANCE SHANGHAI
W
FINANCIAL LEADERS IN PRESIDENT MANG STOP PRESIDENT WANG
s
1
ALSO IN PUBLIC MEETING AND OVER RADIO LEFT IC RPT NO
2
3
STONE UNTURNED WARN SHANGHAI PUBLIC WELLS ECONOMIC CIR LES
4
5
AGAINST EVIL BANEFUL INFLUENCES ANGLDAMEFICAN JEWISH
6
7
IDEAS (MORE PARA
8
9
B ADD ITEM D7 LML ADD ITEM 7 WANGS ACTIVITIES LAST
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOSE -- BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT: NO. 17

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.97)
THREE
DO NOT WRITE
THIS SPACE
1543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FALL
FREQ KC
CALIECRLLA
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQKC
NAT
FREQ KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICALR
M. SHOREY
INDEXED BY.
ANAI YET
GMT:
COLON
THROUGH LENGTHY FRANK TALKS CUMPRESIDENT WANG
PROFIRST TIME SHANGHAI FINANCIE'S SIGNIFICANTLY IPRLS ED
CUMIMMUTABLE RESOLVE ZEAL ENTHUSIASM PRESIDENT PROCON-
STRUCTION NEW CHIA ETBECA E FULLY CONCCIOUS FACT ALLOUT
COOPERATI CUNATI AL GCVTCHI A IN ALL PHASES CINA
WAREFFORTS THEIR DUTY STOP ITCWORTHY DURING PRESIDENT
WANGS TAY SHANGHAIWISE "AS E FORCEMENT EPOCHAII ECONOIC
MEASURE
IN FORU COMPULSCRY PUF CHASI G COTTO YALNS
CLOTHS WHICH ABOUTBRCUCHT PHLUOLEIAL SUCCESS AD ONE
CLEAR INDICATION ARKED FERMEATIDN TANKIL S POLITICAL
N
POWER IN PORTCITY STOP OBSLRVERS DECLARE WAGS VISIT
SHANGHAIWARD ACHIEVED UNPRECEDENTED RESULTS
THAT IT
R
HAD FAREACHING ECONDMIC PSYCHOLOGICAL EFFECTS
SHANGHAI
MASSES PARA
( )
090J1 13/8 LML
MOJI 13/8 1 DONESIAN PARTY FIRST COLON
s
F
INDONESIAN PARTY COMPRISING EIFTEEN MEMBERS EXSUMATRA TEN
2
3
MEMBERS EXMALAI ARRIVED HERE TODAY LED BY ARMY CIVIL ADMINIS-
4
5
TRATOR KARAHO ARAKUNI RPT KARAHIKO ARAKUNI AND NONCOMMISSIONED
6
7
OFFICER MITSUHARU YAMAND RPT MITSUHARU YAMAND OF IMPERIAL
8
9
ARMY STOP PARTY INCLUDED FIFTYTWO YEAR 
OLD T**UKE MOEHAMMAD
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 1788064

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.95)
AGE FOUR
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
080543
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
43
12718
WA，CALIFORNIA
OBS
FREQ KC
FREOKC
2A1
FREO KC
211
ÉMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
IMN
M. SHOREY
HASAN RPT TOUKE MCEHAAD HASAN FRO SUMATR: AND THIRTY-
THREE YEARS OLD IBRAHI BIN HAJI YACOB RPT IBRAHI BIN
HAJI YACOB SERVING IN INTERNAL AFFAIIS DEPARTMENT ILITARY
ADMINISTRATION SUPERVISORY HEADCUAFTLFS  ALAI STCP PARTY
SCHEDULED LEAVE HERE TOKYO'AFD Y TRAIN TO ORROW ORNING
STOP MLMBLRS EXMALAI CARRYINC BANNER WHEREIN WRITTEN
QUOTE MALAI GUNSEI KANBU HAKEN NIPPON SHISATSUD** (INSPEC-
T
TICN PARTY DISPACHED BY MALAI ILITARY ADMINITRATIC
HEADQUARTERS) UNQUOTI (MORE) PARA
1 ADD ITEM 9  ADD ITE  IDONESIAN PARTY SECCD LAST
COLON UNDERSTCOD PAFTY DURING TAY NIPPONWISE WILL ISPECT
ALL WARTIME ACTIVITIES POLITICAL ECO ONIC OTHERS STOP
TOUKE MOEHAMMAD HASAN INT RLAIEWED REMARKED QUOTE EYE
REALLY SURPRISED WITH NIPPONS LATENT POWER WHICH ACHIEVED
( )
SUCH ASTONADING GROWTH WITHIN SEVENTY YEAIS STOP
WHILE
s
1
EYE UNDER DESPOTIC DUTCH RULE EYE OFTEN WCNDERED HOW
2
3
NIPPON MADE SUCH PHENOMENAL PROGRESS UNQUOTE STOP CON-
4
5
CLUDED QUDTE THERE WILL NO EASTASIA WITHOUT NIPPON GUIDANCE-
6
7
UNQUOTE END BT
8
9
FURUNO DOMEI AR
10
2335
NM TU DE JUP/JUQ YA
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PATe NO: 1788906

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 12718
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
CALL
FREQKC
13065
NAT
FREQ KC
PRESS
TT
FREQ KC
555
25
GMT
FADE
WPM
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
ANALYOT
GMT
16D CQ DE JP/JUP PRESS DE JAP/JUP HR NW BC AT 01∅ AUG 14TH BI
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1 SAIGON 12/8 ENVUE*SSURER ENTIERE RECOLTE
COTON ENGRAINE CTAINNEE POUR USAGE INDUSTRIE DOMESTIQUE ET
EGALEMENT POUR FABRICATION RAVITAALLEMENT GUERRE VIRG GOUV-
TGENERAL INDOCHINE FRANCAISE PROMULGUA JOURDHUI DECRET HAUSSE
PRIX ACHAT COTON CINQUANTE PURCENT PAR RAPPORT ANNEE DERNIERE
STOP CONSIDERANT FAITZUE PRIX HUILE RICIN NOIX ET FEUILLES
TOBAC RESTENT INCHANGEDS PAR RAPPORT ANNEE DERNIERE CT-
AUGMENTATION PRIX ACHAT SEULEMENT POUR COTON REFLETE ARDEU-
*GOUVTGENERAL INDOCHINE FRANCAISE POUR OBTENIR AUGMENTATION
PROCUCTION COTON STOP CTAUGMENTATION PRIX AS**DESTINEE PRESER-
VER AUTANTQUE POSSIBLE CONSOMMATION COTON PAR CULTIVATEURS
ET AIDER LIVRAISON ADUSINES MECANIQUES STOP RECOLTE COTON
CTANNEE INDOCHINE FRANCAISE EST ESTIMEE ENVIRON SEPTMILLE TON-
NES STOP CSMESURES ACTUELLES AUGMENTANT PRIX COTON ENGRAINE
s
1
ASSURERA USINES TOTALITE RECOLTE SEPTMILLE TOTALES NESESSAI-
2
3
RE INDUSTRIE DOMESTIQUE INDUSTRIE GUERRE PARA
4
5
2 SAIGON 13/8 1ML 02 SAIGON 13/8 VU AMBASSADEUR JAPON KEN-
6
7
KICHI YOSHIZAWA SEJOURNANT ACTUELLEMENT DALAT TRANSFERRERA
8
9
SIEGE MISSION JAPONSISE EXHANOI ADSAIGON SELON NECESSITE
10
CONTINUE -- CLOSE - BEARINGS  ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:
PAT. NO. 17S784

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
343
12718
AČTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
GNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS
GRIFFIN
INDFXFDIY
NAI YNT
GMT:
G
SITUATION ACTUELLE APARTIR 17/8 QUAND IL REGARNEHA SAIGON
OBSERVATEURS POLITIQUES ICI COSIDERENT POSSIBLE TRANSFERT
SUDINDOCHINEWARD CENTRE POLITIQUE INLOCHINE FRANCAISE JUS-
QUICI PLACED HANOIWISE ATTACHANT IMPORTANCE ADROLE SUDINDO-
CHINE QUI EST DEFA CENTRE ECONO IQUE COUME BASE CONSTRUCTION
PLUSGRANDE ASIEORIENTALE STOP MEMES CSSENVATEURS PREVOIENT
AGRANDISSEMENT ORGANISATION AINSIQUE RENFORCEMENT POUVIR
ROLITIQUE BUREAU MISSION JAPONAISE BAIGONWISE SUITE TRANSFERT
RESIDENCE AMBASSADEUR YOSHIZA A STOP MEMES OBSERVATEURS AJ-
OUTENT GOUVTGENERAL INDOCHINE AUSSI COMPRENANT IMPORTANCE
POLITIQUE SUDINDOCHINW PROJETTE AGRANDISSEMENT ORGANISATION
POLITIQUE SUDINDOCHINE RAPPELANT ETABLISSEMENT RECENT DIREC-
TION OCONOMIQUE DANS GOUVTPROVINCIAL COCHINCHINE ET CELUI
FILIALE BURESU CONTROLE INDUSTRIE MIRIERE SUDINDECHINEWISE
PARA
( )
3 SHANGHAI 13/8 ML 3 SHANGHAI 13/8 COMMENTANT RESULTATS
1
2
FAVORABLES SEJOUR PRESIDENT WANGCHINGWEI SHANGHAIWISE 29/7
3
4
AD
L 13/8 PENDANT LEQUEL WNG ECHANGEA VUES FRENCHES CUMDIREG-
5
6
S
7
EANTS CERCLES ECONOMIQUES ETFINANCIERS SHANGHAI MUR PROBLEM-
8
9
ES PRIX ETADMINISTRATION MUNICIPALE SHANGHAI CERCLES BIONIN-
10
FORMEDS CLARENT WANG APPRONDIT COMPROHONSION CSDIRIGEANTS
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY  INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. ND. 1774

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
12718
FILE
FRRO KC
RKC
NAT
FREOKC
rT
FREOK
FADF
RST
WPM
1M7
GNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
SUR REALITE ECONOMIQUE SHA IGAI AINSIQUE LEUR CONFIANCE EN
PRESIDENT STOP PROFITANT SEJZUR WNG EXPLIQUES EFFICACEMENT
RADIO INTEHVIEWS MEOTING POPULAIRESWISE QUEL OBSTACLO POUR
RECON TRUCTION NOUVELLO CHINE FOURCISSENT FINFLUENCES ANGLO-
AMERICAINE JUIVE ENRACINEES LAS NILIEU OCONOMIQUE SHANGHAI
STOP MEMES CERCLES AJOUTENT ACHAT OBLEGATOIRE COTONNADES FIL
COTON OFFECTUED SHANGHAIWISE CUMSUCCES LENDANT SEJOUR WNG
DOMONTRE PENETRATION INFLUENCE POLITIQUE GOUVTGE NERAL DANS
MILIEU OCONOMIQUE SHANGHAI PARA
4 MANILLE 13/8 IMI ∅4 NANILLE 13/8 DR JOSEP LAUREL PRESIDENT
COMMISSION PREPARATOIRE INDEPENDENCE PHILIPPINES CONFARA CEM-
ATIN ENQUALITE COMMISSAIRE INTERIEUR CUMGOUVERNEURS PROVIN-
CES LUCON CENTRAL BATAAN NUEYAECIJA BULACAN RIZAL TARLAC AN-
GASINAN CON**ERNANT DIVER**S AFFAIRES ADMINISTRATIVES STOP
APPREND LAUREL CONVOQUE REUNION COMITO ELABERATION PROJOT
s
1
LEI ORGANIQUE POUR 14/8 AFIN MEMRE DERNIERE MAIN SUR PREJET
2
3
LOI FIN BT
4
FURUNO DOMEI VA
5
1625
6
7
1631
CQ DE JAP/JUP PRESS DE JAP/JUP HR NW BC AT Ø130 AUG 14TH BI
9
COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1 NANKING 13/8 MI COPYRIGHT DOMEI 1 NANKING
10
2
CONTINUE - CLOBE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORIT
TO UNIT:

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
0543
ACTION TAKEN:
2
FILE
12718
FREQ KC
(A11
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREQ KC
T7
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
EAN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
BV.
GRIFFIN
INDEXED RY
GMT:
13/8 WEEKLY COMNUNIQUE PRESS BECTION JAPANESE EXPEDITIONARY
FORCES CHINA DISCLOSED IMPERIAL UNITS EXTERNINATING EEMY
REMNANTS NIEGHBORHOOD LAKE WE ISHAN RPT NEISHAN JEAR SHANTUNG
KIANGSU BORDER STOP ADDEI JAIAVESE UIITS STOLE AARCH ON ENEMY
ONEELEVENTH AND ONEFOURTEENTH DIVISIONS LED BY GE VERAL YU
HSUEHCHUNG RPT YU HSUEHCHUNG 27/7 AND COMPLETELY FRUSTRATED
CUMSURPRISE COUNTERATTACK ENEMY ATTEMPT PENETRATE WESTERN
SHANTUNG STOP REVEALED COLONEL LIU HANKUNG RPT LIU HA KUNG
COMMANDER ENMY ONEELEVENTH DIVISION CAPTURED WELLS QUANTITIES
WAR MATERIALS OVER ONETHOUSAND ENEMY TROOPS EIGHER KILLED
CAPTURED ***** 27/7 30/7 STOP FURTHER LISCLOSED JAPANESE UNITS
10
ZO/8 SUDDENLY STRUCK ENEMY GUERILLAS WESTERN PEKING ARMY DIS-
TRICT WHICH OPERATING BORDER MENGCHINAG NORTHCHINA JEHOL
PROVINCE AND OFFCUT ENEMYS RETREAT FOLLOWING DAY STOP ADDED
( )
****ENTLY IRON RING GRADUALLY BEING TIGHTENED AROUND TRAPPED
ENEMY AND ANNIHILATIVE BATTLE BEING PUSHED SIMULTANEOUSLY
2
3
WITH THOROUGHOING CAMPAIGN OUTWIPE ENEMY PLANS REESTBLISH
4
5
BASES FOR COMMUNISTIC ACTIVITIES PARA
6
02 SHANGHAI 13/8 L 2 SHANGHAI 13/8 REVEALED NORDER AT-
8
4
TEND OMNIACTIVITIES UNDER PROVISIONS RECENTLY ENACTED REGU-
10
2
TO UNIT:
PAT1 NO. 1788704

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
43 FILE
12718
BLOKC
ORS
PEOKC
FREO KC
FREO KC
N
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
GRIFFIN
GMI
LATIONS PROPURCHASING COTTON YARNS CLOTHS ALL CHINA COM-
MERCIAL CONTROLASSOCIATION WILL OPEN PURCHASING OOFICE OF
COTTON YARNS CLOTHS HERE 16/O STOP U LERSTOUL NEW OFFICE
WILL HEADED BY NEH LUSHENG RPT NEH LUSHENG WHO CHAIRMAN COT-
TON GOOLS TRADE AUSOCIATI N AS PRESIDENT AND THIAO POCHUAN
RPT THIAO POCHUAN AS VICEPRESIDENT STOP NEW OFFICE REPORTED-
LY WILL LIVIDED INTO FIVE SECTIONS GOVER:ING ALL PHASES
PURCHASING ACTIVITIES PARA
3
3 MANILA 13/8 REMINISCING ANERICAN OCCUPATION NANILA 1Z/8
WHICH SIGNIFIED FALL PHILIPPINES INTO HANLS UNISTATES GENERAL
EMILIO AGUINALDO FOREMOST LIVING FILIPINO REVOLUTIONARY
FIGURE TOLAY DECLARED TWAS EFFECTED THROUGH TRICKERY DECEIT
WELLS BRAZEN DISREGARD GOOD FAITH FILIPINO PEOPLE STOP G-
UINALDO ATTRIBUTED DUPLICITY DIRECTLY ADMIRAL GEORGE DEWEY
( )
COMMANDER UNISTATES NAVAL FLEET MANILABAYWISE  SAYING
s
1
QUOTE BEFORE FILIPINOS LAUNCHED FINAL ASSAULT AGAINST SPANISH
2
FORCES MANILA ADMIRAL DEWEY REQUESTED ME FIRST AWAIT ARRIVAL
3
4
5
AMERICAN TROOPS MORDER ENABLE HI*SHARE HONOR IMPENDING VIC-
7
TORY STOP IN VIEW OUR RELATIONS EYE ASSENTED REQUESTWARD UN-
8
QUOTE STOP CONTINUED QUOTE NADDITION WHEN UNISTATES FORCES
9
10
ARRIVED DEWEY ASKED ME PERMIT THEIR LANDING ON BEACH PARAY
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIONTY

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.99)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
80543
ATION TAKEN:
FILE
43
FILE
12718
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT.
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICALORS
GRIFFIN
INDEXED BY
ANAI YET
GMT:
AQUEWISE SOUTHERN PART CITY WHICH REQUEST EYE ONCE MORE
GRANTED UNQUOTE STOP SAIL QUOTE HOWEVER ONCE THEYD ASSEMBLED
MANY MEN AMERICANS CONSPIRID AMONG SELVES TAKE INTRAMUROS
BRACKET MANILAS WALLED CITY UNB ACKET ETLEAVA FILIPINO FORC-
ES OUTSIDE AFTER FILIPINOS HAD BESIEGED CITY FOR MONTHS BE-
FORE ARRIVAL AMERICANS UNUUOTE ALDED QUOTE IN THIS MANNEH
AMERICANS CINALLY AB**ZESTROY FIFST ROPUBLIC ETGRAB PHILIP-
PINES UNQUOTE STOP NACCORDANCE FILIPINO PROVERB QUOTE THERES
NO DEBT THAT REMAINS UNPAID INQUOTE RETRIBUTION HAS COME UN-
ISTATESWARD WITH OUTBREAKGREATER EASTASIA WAR GENERAL SAID
STOP OUTPOINTED QUOTE JAPAN DRIVEN UNISTATES FRON EASTASIA
ETSOON TO GIVE HONOR INDEPENDENCE TO OUR MOTHERLAND UNQUOTE
STOP DEBUNKING CERTAIN ACCEPTED DETAILS PHILIPPINE HISTORY
AGUINALDO SAID SUBSEQUENT FILIPINO STRUGGLES AGAINST UNISTAT-
( )
ES WASNT SECOND STAGE PHILIPPINE REVOLUTION AGAINST SPAIN
s
1
BUT SEPARATE FILIPINOAMERICAN WAR STOP SAID AMERICANS ENCOUR-
2
3
AGED THIS VIEW NORDER JUSTIFY THEIR PURCHASE PHILIPPINES
4
5
FOR PESOS TWENTYMILLION AS STIPULATED IN TREATY PARIS WHERE-
6
7
IN SPAIN TRANSFERRED SOVEREIGNTY UNISTATESWARD STOP CALLING
8
9
PARIS AGREEMENT ARTIFICIAL PART GENERAL SAID QUOTE TWAS AR-
10
2
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
PAT. NO. 17

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.90)
(0)
July 31, 048
 dear Dr. Leigh:
Ihis Division is engaged in the collection of
material which may be useful to the American Embassy
2
at Tokye when that ofrice eventually reopens, and in
that conneotion we feel that the information and anal-
894.76/151A
yees contained in the Radio Reports on the Par Kast
would be of great use and value. It is therefore re-
quested, if the successive issues are available, that
this Division be supplied with a complete file of the
t
Reports.
We are now receiving two coples of the Report.
Lenceforth we shall be pleased to receive three copies.
I wiah to take this opportunity to inform you that
the Report, as well as other publications of your ore
ganisation are of great interest and value to this Divi-
sion.
Sincerely yours,
22113
Josdph W. Baslantino
Chies
Division of Far Eastern Affairs
JL 1 1943P
Do. Robert D. Leigt, Direeter,
PS/DAB
Peroige Breadeast Intelligesse Berviee,
1686 X street XS.,
Washington, D.0.

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.96)
DeP RTN NT OF S IPE
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Form Iustruu.lon to rlold
BUREAU OF FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC COMMERCE
1943
WASHINGTON
25
Office of the Geugrapher
Division of
September 9, 1943
SIP 201943
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
IN REPLY REFER TO37
Ir. taymond H. Geist,
Division of Comercial Affairs,
Departnent of State,
Washington, D. C.
Sabject:
conomic  aterial from Japanese broad-
casts for the Office of Economic Narfare.
reference:
Desputch ..o. 1115. Chungking, August 7,
19:3 on atove subject.
Dear  r. Geist:
 attention has een directei to bespatch o. lhlis from Chungking
under date of Au ust 7, 19l3 transmitting a selection of economic
reports taken fro Japanese radio broadcasts and prepared for the
894.76/1
use of the Office of Econonic Marfare. The material appears to
have been prepared under the irection of C. .. (Carl i. Boehringer)
who drafted the despatch, an an exceptionally useful index of the
contents, arra:ged under appropriate headings, accompanies the inter-
cepted material.
894.76
It is believed that the staff of the Embassy at Chungking should
receive special co. mendation for the comprehensive character of this
52
material and the thought used in its selection. Those Units of the
Dureau who find the economic information appearing in this service
of real value also desire to express their appreciation of the form
in which it is presented.
Very truly yours,
Remillev
R. C. Miller,
Acting Liaison Officer.
PS/DAB
PORYICTORY
BUY
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS
C

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.91)
894.76
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Ratification of new Philip pine
constitution.
Sumror. of Japanece rulio roai-
casts lerertin met? uso!
894.76/153
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Jtate.Memorandum
(Despatch, lelegram, iastruction, letter, etc.)
Stato Depurtment
From PI (Loclart)
Dated Jep. 15, 1943
T6YXX
File No.
811h.01142
PS/JF
1 1840

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.96)
894.76/
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Sub ject reported broadc stin: over shert  ve
r dio from rokyo-
Justice Department re uests any information
regarding,-.
894.76/1
7
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Corres.
(Despatch, telegram, Lnstruction, letter, etc.)
From
Dated Nov. 16, 1943
Justice partment
To
ashington, D. C.
From-H over
File No.
130-Murata, Seiichi
bb
1-1840
154

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.97)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
DEC 31 1943
山
RECE
VIA SPECIAL MESSENGER
DIVISION OF
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
Honorable Adolf A. Berle, Jr.
DECLASSIFIED
Assistant Seoretary of State
E.0. 11652. Sec 3(E) anJ 5(0) or
894.76/155
Department of State
Fea leT (/19/3
Washington, D. C.
By..
My dear Mr. Berle:
In aocordanoe with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further interoepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
94.76
Very truly yours,
E. stdrling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enolosure
PS / JB
APR 7 1944
FILED
1544
DEPARTMENT
78365
C

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
27-090743
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
3 FILE 20487
KAANA CALIF
423
950G-MADE
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
ATION
CALL
FREQ KC
1R135
PMC
NAT
IND TO KAIA
TT
FREQ KC
A-2
4
346
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST.
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
IMN
MAND KEYED, SL PPY.
INDICATORS:
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
152
KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC ( ETC.)
0155
(DOTS) VE KAIA KAIA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING AMERICA
STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA CALLING TO YOU IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF THE DJAKARTA RADIO EEEEEEE DJAKARTA RADIO
STOP OUR CALLING SIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 KC IE16.6 M
STOP OUR PROGRAMS STARTS AT 18OB PWT UD STARTS AT 18 PWT
STOP WE REVEAL TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND INTEHNATIONAL
AFFAIRS IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR STOP IT IS OUR DESIRE TO INFORM
YOU OF THE EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO
EVERYB DY AT YOUR HOME STOP THIS PROGRAM IS SENT TO YOU
1
DIRECTLY FOR YOUR INFORMATION BY THE DJAKARTA RADIO STOP
LISTEN IN TO THE DJAKARTA RADIO AND BE ISE UD THIS 
PROGRAM IS SENT TO Y U DIRECTLY FOR YOUR INFORMATION BY THE
DJAKARTA RADIO AND BE WISE END END END AR BT KAIA KAIA DE
(22 PMC PMC PMC QSL QSL GSL UD UD EEEEEEEE AR VA VA
s
( END INTERGEPT)
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOGE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE
DIVISION OF RARXBAETIRN AFFAIRS
February 26, 1944
TD
Mr.lde Wolf:
We are always anxious to receive
further information from and in regard to
Japan, and we are Elad to ive our ap-
proval to the sugsested latter from the
Secretary of State to the Chairman of the
Federal Communications Commission.
In the firet line, instead of "Far
Eastern Department" there should be
"Division of Japancse Affairs". Under
the circumstances it might be well to
delete the following sentence in the last
"We understend that it is
paragraph:
possible to intercept these broadcasts
for at least nert of te year in the
Hawaiian Islande." If, hovever, you
feel it should be retained we would hive
no objection.
JA:Benninghoff:HLs

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.95)
2/24/44
DATB:
: JA -
TO
Mr. Benninghoff
FROM : TD
SUBJBCT :
HS
TD would appreoiate being advised
whether an appropriately modified
versicn of the attached draft letter
concerning increased monitoring of
Japanese broadoasts, prepared by the
Foreign Broadcast Intelligence Service
for the Department to send to Mr. Fly,
meets with your approval.
TD:HG Kolly:WLB:SS

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.92)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMAISSION
FOREIGN BROADCAST INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
1484 K STREET N. W.
WASHINSTON. D. C.
February 22, 1944
E0 m1
71.1 4SIC
m.
HsC.
FEB 2 3 1944
FEF oa
Telecommunication
Division
Mr. Francis C. de Wolf
livision of international Communications
Department of State
hashington 25, D.C.
Dear Mr. de Wolf:
Attached is a suggcstea lotter for the
894.76/156
signature of the Secretary of State regarding our
expansion of monitoring on the West Coast to include
Japanese medium wave broadcasts.
I would appreciate it very much if you
would seni it through the proper channels:
894.76
Sincerely yours,
Roberttengh
Robert L. Leigh
Director
MR5
FILED
1944
PS/EMS
FORDEFENSE
BUY

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.96)
Mr. James Lawrence Fly
Chairman
Federal Communications Coumission
Washington 25, D.C.
WyDear Mr. Fly:
The ere of
Our  Eastern Departmont informs me that ti are
anxious to ootain increased coversce o! tne Jupanese
domestic and empire broadcasts. Thtbelieved tnat the material
to be ob tained from these two sets o. proauc sts woul be of
great value in assessing the prycholoical reactions of the
Japanese people to various aspccts of the r. The domestic
broaacasts woula also contain economic and political iniormation
of a deteiled nature which woulu be valuable not only to theo
Department,of Stute, but to othur atencies of the Government
as well.
The Department of Stute would be extremeiy lad if you
can arrange to pick up e the Japanese medium wave broauc sts 
understantnat it isossiolt to intercept tnese
broadcasts for at least art oi te year in che Hawaiian Islands.
 arrange Ao extend your listening activities to this phere of
operations.
Sincerely yours,
00
T
Corcell Hull
Secretary of State

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.96)
March 3, 1044
reply refer to
My dear Mr. Mly:
The Division of Japanese Affairs of the Department
informs me that it is anxious to obtain inoreased coverage
of the Japanese domestic and empire broadoasts. It be-
lieves that the material to be obtained from these twe
sets of broadeasts would be of great value in assessing
the psyohologioal reactions of the Japanese people to
various aspeots of the war. The domestic broadoasts
would also contain economic and political information of
a detailed nature which would be valuable not only to
894.76/156
this Department, but to other agenoies of the Government
as well.
894.76
The Department will be pleased, therefore, if you
can arrange to pick up as many Japanese modium wave
broadeasts as possible. The Department understands that
it is possible to intercept these broadeasts for at least
part of the year in the Hawaiian Islands. It would, there-
fore, be extremely interested if you could arrange to ex-
tend your listening activities to this sphere of opere-
tions.
sinoerely youre,
Por the Seoretary of State:
eax
Adolr A. Berle, Jr.
MAR
Assistant Seeretary
The Hemerable
PS/EMS
Jamee Lawrenee Ply, Chairman
/TDI HOK: RAS
2/89/44
FE
in
gono

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.93)
April 11, 104
My dear Mr. Fly:
I mave reeeived your letter of Maroh 10, 1944
eomeerming the soverage by the Foreign Broadeast
Intelligenee Service of Japanese domestie and empire
breadeasts, and in reply to your request for informa-
tien as to the material from these broadeaste desired
894.76
by the Department, advise you as follows:
The Departmeat will be 1nterested in all material
of a pelitical or economic nature. Suoh material ean
be obtained from broadeasts whieh repert or eomment on
eabiaet meetings, or meetings of other important offi-
11
eial bodies, mewly drafted ordimanees or legislation,
57
lecal comditioms, (financial, esomomie or political)
sush as produotion of all sorts, travel, publie meetings
and rallies. In ether words some material might well
be gleamed from all broadeasts iatended for local reeep-
tien only.
In additien it is belleved that seme sigaifieanse
may be diseovered in the differenses er diserepansies
appearing in the presestation of material for demestie
and for foreign reeeptiom, and it is suggested that your
analyets in studying materials be on the alert for such
differenees or diserepamsies.
sineerely yours,
PS/JF
For the Seeretary of state:
API. 10 1944
DEAN ACHESOM
Assistant Searetary
the
a.B
KI7
s/e/es mnt

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Office
DAXHOKOF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March21, 1944
TD
Mik Kelly:
Reference 1s made to your tag of Morch 17
asking for FE's suggestlons concerning the
nature of the material we should like to re-
ceive from FBIs monitorin: of Japanese broad-
casts.
In general FE would be inter-sted in all
material of a political or economic nature.
Such material can be obtained from broadcasts
which report or comment on catinet meetings,
or meetings of other important official bodirs,
newly drafted ordinances or legislation, local
conditions (financial, economic, or political)
such as production of all sorts, travel, public
meetings, rallies, etc., etc.
In other words some material might well be
gleaned from all broadcasts intended for local
reception only.
If FBIs in analyzing t is material would be
on the alert for differences or discrepancies
in presentation for dom-stic and for foreign
reception some significance mifht be dis-
covered.
It would, of course, be unnecessary Tor
FBIS to duplicate reports from Japan which apt
pear in present FBIS summaries.
7
894.76/157
mup
JA:Bishop:MHP

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTMENT OF STATE
TELECOMMUNICATIONS DVISION
Maroh 17.
FE:
Have you any suggestions
for the FBIs conoerning the
nature of the material you
would like to receive from it
on the Japanese broadcasts it
monitors? See last paragraph
of attached letter.
TD
:HGKelly
0

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.93)
ARTMENT OF STATE
OREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
March 11, 1944.
DCR:
Please record this paper
and give it the proper routings.
an
OPV'arney

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.94)
ABBRESS ALL GOMMUNICATIONS
TO THE BECRETARY
FLY. CHAIRMAN
T. J. SLOWIE, SECRETARY
KER
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
B. CABE
WASHINGTON. D. C.
MGE HENRY PAYNE
284
T. A. M. CRAVEN
MAK 1944
RAY C. WAKEFIELD
C. J. DURR
0
The Honorable
Adolf A. Berl•, Jr.
Assistant Secretary
Department of State
Nashington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
894.76/157
Replying to your letter of arch 3rd, urging our
Foreign Broadcast intelligence Service to obtain increased
coverage of the Japanese domestic and ompire broadcasts,
we are moving to obtain this increased coverage as rapidly
as the dirfioult translator situation and financial con-
siderations pormit. You can be assured thut we will make
every possible effort to obtain any additional coverage
in this area that is possible for us to reach.
We are now establishing an experimental unit in
the nawaiian Islands to intercept tre medium wave broad-
casts from Japan with a view to seeing what additional
coverage from that location is feasible and valuable.
894.76
We are grateful for any guidance that the Depart-
ment of State will give us in obtaining the material
which will best serve its needs.
Sincerely yours,
la
Chairman
yyiels
File- Ltr to, 7cc
x+x.
4/6144
MAR 1 1 1944
S
PORDEFENSE
/BMB
BUY
DEPARTMENT OF STATI
UNITED
STATES
SAVINGS
BONDS
AND SEAMPS

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.94)
AeL
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25 D. C.
221944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
£94.76/7-244
DIVISION OF
2:1944
MR.
BFRLE
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours.
J. E. Steeling
DECLU/SSIFIED
G. E. Sterling
0Ar
Assistant Chief Engineer
E0116
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
By
AUG 3 -
Enclosures
AUG1 1944
71365

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 20487
NA, CALIF
58s
WORKS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQKC
CALL
181KC
NAT
LINDTO KAIA
TT
FREQ KC
3R2M
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY
POOR HAND SENDING
INDFXED BY
GMT:
0231
KAIA KAIA KAIA (ETC) DE PMC PMC PMC (ETD)
0234
(DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATEB OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES
IN THE AMERICAN HUUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL
SIGN IS PMC WAVELENCTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS 166O METRES
STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HUURS PACIFIC
WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTINC TO
YOU VITALLY IPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATION BEARING ON INTERNATION-
AL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE
ARE OF INTEREST AND I PORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT
TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BRO D-
CAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRA-
MES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
( )
s
THEM ARE KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW AT AT
1
2
0341
1134 1MI 1130 1MI 1130 TKS TKS TKS SK SK SK
3
(ENT TRANSMISSION AND INTERCEPT)
5
6
7
8
9
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.96)
CPE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS
ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE BECRETARY
241944
ADH
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
0: (E)
01
894.76/7-2444
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours.
J. E. Sterling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
111
71365

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE
THIS SPACE
T-14 SP-P
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
S24/44
FILE
20487
FREQ KC
CALL
NTA ANA. CALIF.
853
WORKS
ATION
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
PMC
18135 KC.
NAT
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
LIND TO KAIA
TT
FREQ KC
CALL
A-2
236
20
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
BY
HAND SENDING
ANALYST
GMT:
0233
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC FMC (ETC,
0234
EEEEEEEEEEEEEE KAIA KAIA CALLINC THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA UJAWA CALLINC THE UNITED
STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR
CALL SICN 1S PMC WAVELENCTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16,60
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BECINS AT EICHTEEN HOURS
PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANS-
MITTINC TO YOU VITALLY I PORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING
ON INTERNATIUNAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU
OF EVENTS THAT IMI THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERY-
BODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP
THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE
NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP
LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING
( )
s
STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END END AR AR AR BT KAIA
1
2
KAIA KAIA KAIA NM TU DE PMC PMC TM IMI TOMORROW BROADCAST AT
3
4
1130 IMI AT 1130 TOKYO TIME IMI TOKYO TIME AR AR TKS TK8 TKS VA
5
6
7 0243
VA VA
8
(END TRANSMISSION AND INTERCEPT)
9
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.96)
ABL
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
ADORESS ALL COMMUMCATIONS
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
TO THE SECRETARY
JUL 2 7 1944
EPEFe
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
ONFIDENTIAL
281944
894.76/7-2744
File 20487
1944
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours.
J. E. Sterling
G. E. Sterling
or (E)
Assistant Chief Engineer
FL Ctr
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
AUG 5
1944
71365

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE 20487
ACALIF.
品
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQ KC
18035
FREQ KC
NAT
IA(BLIND)
TT
FREQ KC
334
1Pm15
GMT
MN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
VY HVY QRN. WEAK SIG.
INDICATORS:
HAND KEYED. SLOPPY.
BY:
ANAL.YST
GMT:
232 KAIA DE PMC (ETC)
 STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO AMEPICA THIS IS
DJAKARTA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF
DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH
18135 KCS
 OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS
AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP OF PROGRAME IN THE NEXT ONE
HOUR WE SHALL BE STANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS
 REVEALITIONS BEARING ON IMPORTANT INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFCRM YOU OF EVENTS THAT
ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERY BODY IN YOUR COUNTRY
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING 
IS SENT TOYOU TO  PREPARE YOU TO  THE 
WILL BE TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGPAMMES
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM
( )
AR BT
21240
KAIA DE PMC NXT  1135 NXT T 1135 TKS VA
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
DO
NOT
WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
SPP
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
/44FILE 20487
CALL
FREQ KC
TAANACALIF
853
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
FREO KC
BLIND TO KAIA
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
POOR HAND SENDING
BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
232 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
(ETC)
0235 (DOTS)
OZS.5 KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN
THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGN
IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18,135 KILOCYCLES 1I 18,135 KILOCYCLES THAT
15 18,6 METRES IMI 18,8 METRES STOP LUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA
BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE
HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPOPTANT NEWS AND E
REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR KN ONLY
OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPOR-
TANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YUUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE
GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO
RECEIVE THE I NEWS WHICH WILL EBE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELE-
( )
PHONY IMI INI WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN
1
2
PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STAT:ON YOU WILL PROFIT
3
BY THEM END END BT BT END END BT KAIA KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC PMC
5
6
TMW TMW TMW 1130 IMI 1MI TMW 1130 TKS TKS SK SK SK SK SK SK SK
0243
(END TRANSMISSION AND INTERCEPT)
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.92)
A B/c
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25 D. C.
ADDREBS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
AUG 3 1944
CRE-EC
AND StAMPS
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
894.76/8-344
1064
CONFIDENTIAL
MR. BERLE
File 20487
191217
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
FEl EAR
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
G. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
AUG7 1944
A06 0: 1944
FELIT
71365

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
7-28-44
FILE 204=7
ANA. CALIF.
3.9
CALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
6BS
CALL
FREQ KC
18135
FREQ KC
NAT
WORKS:
BLIND TO KAIA
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
A-2
467
15
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
CMN
LITTLE QRN. NO QRM.
INDICATORS:
BY:
INDEXED PY
ANAL.YST:
GMT:
0231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
SN KAIA DE PMC BT KAIA CALLING THE NITED STATFS OF
D
J
AMERICA STOP HELIO AMEHICA THIS IS KJAKARTA DFAKA
CALLING THE UNITFD SIATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF JAKARTA
OP
N
RADIO STATION STX OUR CALL SIGN IS PMC AVELFNGTH 18135
KCS THAT IS 16.6 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA
BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFXC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT
ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE RTANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY
IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING N INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS STOP OUR NLY CBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF MATTERS
THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND I PORTANCE TO VERYBODY IN YOUR
COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CAN OT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS
ARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE
THE NEWS HHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY
STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA
( )
s
BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END
1
2
AR BT KAIA DE PMC TMW BROADCAST AT TOKYOTIME 113 TKS VA
3
241
VA
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORI

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.94)
ceffc
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONN
AUG 4 1944
TO THE BECRETARY
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
84.76/8-444
File 20487
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
7.4
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Sterling
fec etk
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
3y
Radio Intelligence Division
DF
()
Enclosures
By.
71365

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
SPP
ACTION JAKIN
7-28-44 FILE 20407
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
BANTA ANA. CALIF.39
FREQ KC
OBS
CAIL
LOCATION
18135
NAT
PMC
FREOKC
WORKS:
CALL
BLIND TO KAIA
FREQ KC
CALL
GMT
A-2
2
EMN
FADE
IMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS
SOME LRN. NO QRM.
BY
POOR HAND KEYED, VERY
INDEXED BY
SLODPY
GMT:
0230
KA!A KAIA DE PMC PMC (FTC)
0234
KAIA CALLING THE UNIT D STATFS OF AMEHICA STOP HELLO 
AMFRICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJUA CALLING THE UNITED STATES
IN THE AERICAN HOUR OF DAKARTA HADIO  UR STOP OUR
CALL SIGH IS PMC WAVELENTTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS
156 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMFRICA BEGINS AT
EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC IAR TI E STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR
A
WE SHALL BE THANSMITTING TO YOU VITTLLY IMPORTANT NEWS
AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR
NLY OBJECTIVE IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF
ENTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYONE IN YOUR COUUTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS
SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL
BE ROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE
( )
AMERICAN PROGRAMME OF THE DJAKARTA BRCADCASTING STATION
s
1
YOU WILD PROFIT BY THEM AR
2
#240
KAIA DE PMC TMW AT 113 TKS VA
6
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.95)
A8/L
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25 D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
AUG 7 1944
CPEFC
115
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
AUG 1 01944
STATE
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
DIVISION OF
1944
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
894.76/8-744
M(File
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
1944
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
A06101544
FILED
71368

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
44 FILE 20487
CALL
WORKS
FREQ KC
NTAANACALIF7
CALL
NAT
PMC
TT
VORKS:
KAIA (BLIND)
FREQ KC
GMT
CALL
A-2
LMN
EMN
FADE
INDICATORS:
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
HAND KEYED. FIRST PART
BY
ANALYST
VY BLOW, SPED UP AT END.
INDEXED BY
GMT:
231
KAIA DE PMC (REPEATED MANY TINFS)
0234
(DOTS) VE VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STO HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP
R CALL SIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS
16.6D ETRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT
EIOHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TICE STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR
R
E SHALL BE THANS ITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS
AND REVELATIONS EARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP CU
ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF
INTEREST AND INPORTANCE TO FVFRYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH
IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH
WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELFSS TFLEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO
THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THF DJAKARTA HROADCASTING
( )
STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END AR AR AR BT
1
2
KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW BHOADCAST AT TOKYO
3
1130 TKS TKS VA VA VA VA VA
243
TIME 1130 IMI TMW AT TOKYO TIME
6
(END INTERCEPT)
7
8
9
10
3
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.94)
A=B+L
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESE ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE BECRETARY
AUG 1 5 100
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
AUG161944
File 20487
MR. BERLE
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
894.761
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
8.1544
Very truly yours,
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
eV. E. File
Enclosures
AUGJ1.1944
044
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FILHD
う
71365
J

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN
THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 20487
CALL
FREQ KC
SANTA ANA. CALIF.
807
WORKS:
ATION
OBS
FREQ KC
CALL
PMC
18135
FREO KC
NAT
WORKS:
KAIA (L1)
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
RST
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
HAND KEYED.- SLOPPY.
NO QRM-QRN.
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST:
GMT:
3231
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
(REPEATED MANY TIMES)
3234
(DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATFS OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED
STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION
STOP OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC
AVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES
THAT 1S 16.60 METRES 1MI 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.60
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO ANERICA BEGINS AT EIGNTEEN
HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL
BE TRANSMITTING T YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVEL-
ATIONS BEARING
ONT INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY
OBJECT IMI OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS
THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR
COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING
FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO
PRPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS
( )
WHICH TWILL IMI PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL E
s
TELEPHONY
BROADCAST BY WIRELESS / STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGR-
1
2
3
AMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION IMI DJAKARTA
4
BROADCASTING BTATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END BT BT
5
6
KAIA KAIA KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW O TMW 113
7
8
IMI TMW 113 IMI 113 TK8 TKS VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
K-7- SPP-Po
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
8-144 FILE
20487
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
ATION
CALL
FREQ KC
PMC18135
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
WORKS:
KAIA (BLIND)
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
EAN2
15
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
HAND KEYED
INDICATORS:
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
231
MUSIC-- KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (REPEATED)
234
(DOTS)
KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE
NITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION
STOP OUR CALLSIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 16.135 1MI 13.135 KILO-
CYCLES THAT 1S 16.6 IMI 16.8 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO
AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE
NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT
NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR
ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF ENTEREST
AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND "HICH YOU
CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU
TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST
BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMES
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BT
1
2
KAIA KAIA KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC NW NO MORE NXT TMWAT 11.35
3
#242
IMI NXT AT 11.35 TKS VA VA
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.99)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
81944FILE
20487
FREQ KO
TA ANA CALIF.
417
CALL
WORKS:
TION
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
18135
PMC
NAT
FREQ KC
RXIA (BLIND)
TT
CAL1
225
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
VERY POOR HAND KEYING.
BY:
HEAVY ORN.SEVERE FADING.
ANALYST:
GMT:
235
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
VE VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING
THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HLUR CF DJAKAFTA
RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18135
KILOCYCLES THAT IS 155O METRES STUP OUR PROGRAMME TO
AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN H-URS PACIFIC WAR TIME
STOP THE NEXT ONE HUUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU
VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING CN INTER-
NATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUP ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU
OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERY-
BCDY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YCU CANNCT OTHERWISE
GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TL YOU TO PREPARE
YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY
( )
WIRELESS TELEPHCNY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN
1
PROGRAMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATIUN YOU
2
3
WILL PRCFIT BY THEM END END AR AR AR AR BI
4
5
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
6
7
245
T BC AT 113 TOKYO TIME VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA
8
9
10
3
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.95)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
DEPARTNINT
AUG 1 9 1944
AUL
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIFT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
794
File 20487
fegoth labe
44
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
894.76/8-1944
Very truly yours.
J. E. Steling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
AUG231944
FILED
71368

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
SP-P-
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE 20487
ANTA ANA, CALIF.7
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
TION
PMO
18135
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
KAIA
(BLIND)
CALL
FREQ KC
TT
EMN
FADE
445
RST
15
WPM
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
HAND KEVED.
INDICATORS:
BY
INDEXED PY
ANALYST
GMT:
0231
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (REPEATED)
0234
(DOTS) KAIA CALLING THE NITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR
CALLSIGN 1S PMC AVELENGTH 18134 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.60
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN
HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL
BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVEL-
ATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY
OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST
AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH
YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS ARNING FLASH IS SENT
TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS NHICH WILL BE
BROADCAST Y WIRELESS TELEPH NY STOP LISTEN TO THE AN
AMERICAN PROGRAMME OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION
( )
YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM AR BT
s
1
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW 1135 IMI 1135 TOKYOTIME
2
3
5244
AR VA VA
4
5
(END INTEROEPT)
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
124FLE 20487
ANTA ANA,CAL7
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS
CATION
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
KAIA (BLANBC
TT
CALL
GMT
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
HAND KEYED CLEARLY.
INDICATORS:
BY:
INDEXED DY
ANALYST:
GMT:
THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
THEM END END END END AR AR BT
KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC PMC TU TMW 1130
TOKYOTIME IMI TOMORROW BC AT 113O TOKYOTIME AR AR TKS
TKS VA VA
0242
(END INTERCEPT
( )
8
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS
SPACE
SP-P-
_FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
12-44FLE22487
FREQ KC
SANTA ANA, CAL. O7
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
ORKS:
TT
CALL
15m18
GMT
LAN
HAND KEYED CLEARLY
INDICATORS:
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
0231
PMC VVV VVV VVV VVV DE PMC
C PACP/P/
KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA DAIA DE PMC
PMC PMC PMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
KAIA KAIA
KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC
PMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA DAIA
DE PMC PMC PMC PMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PWC
0235
(DOTS) EEEEEEEEEEE
VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA
CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF
DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGN IS PMC WAVE-
LENGTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.60 METRES STOP OUR
PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC
WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BF TRANS-
MITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS
( )
s
BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS
1
2
TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANGE
3
4
TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHER-
5
6
WIBE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH I8 SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE
7
8
YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHIOH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRE-
9
10
LEBS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF
3
TO UNIT:

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.92)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE BECRETARY
AUG 21 1944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
RECHIVED
AUG 2 4 1944
File 20487
DIVISION OF
804.76
(E)
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
4
894.76/
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
7
Very truly yours.
8.2144
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Dovis
1944
PAENT UF SIATE
AUG 2 4 1944
Enclosures
FILED
7
(0)
J
71365

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FICE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
20487
FREQ KC
CALIF
423
WORKS:
CALL
ATION
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
18135
NAT
FREQ KC
BLIND TO KAIA
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
MAND KEYED,POOR,SENT R FOR
DEGIMAL POINT. QRN QRN NIL.
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
A
RS VVV KAIA XAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC KAIA KAIA KAID DE PMC ( ETC. )
ZJ3 ( DOTS) KAIA KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
SELLO AMERICA HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE
UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP
OUR CALLSIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18.S35 UD 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S
16.6 UD 16.8 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT
EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL
BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING
ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF
EVENTS THATARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR
COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE QET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH
1S SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECELVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE
BROADCAST BY WLRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRANES
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BT KAIA
KAIA KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC NW NO MORE NX TMW AT 11.35 UD NX TMW
241 AT 11.35 TOKYTINE TKS VA EEETET
2
3
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 20487
ANTANACALIF227
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
KAIA(BLIND)
TT
FREO KC
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
¿MN
HAND KEYED.
INDICATORS:
MOD. QRN, QRM NIL.
BY:
INDEXED BY
GMT:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
(REPEATED)
235 (DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED
STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP
OUR CALLSIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES 1MI 18.135
KILOCYCLES THAT 18 16.60 METRES 1MI 16.68 METRES STOP OUR
PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR
TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING
TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRB STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM
YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERY-
BODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET
STOP THIB WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO
RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELEBS TELE-
PHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA
1
2
BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END BT
KAIA KAIA KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW 1130 IMI TMW 1130
TKS TKS VA VA
7
243 (END INTERCEPT)
10
3
TO UNIT:

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.95)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
AUG 2 2 1944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
AUG?1944
DIVISION OF
DECLASSIFIED
10/116
ca Chil
:P) or (
119/23
73
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr. v, 
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
244
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
894.76/5-2244
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Steeling
7
7
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
AUG 2 8 1944
FILED
AUG
71368

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
1744
FILE 2487
CALL
FREQ KC
ANA CALIF
423
WORKS:
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
18135
NAT
FREO KC
WORks:
LIND TO KAIA
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
NO QRN SLIGHT QRM DIATHERMY
NDICATORS:
NAND KEYED GOOD SENDING.
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
23 V(PAUSE) ( STRONG CARRIER BUT NO MCDULATION AFTER VOICE SIGNOFF
WITH EXCEPTION OF SINGLE LETTER V" )(MOD CUT IN SUDDENLY)
YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END AR BT KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
241 PMC PMC TM TMW BC AT 1130 UD TMW BC AT TOKYOT1ME 1130 TKS TKS EEETET
242 EEETET EEETET VA VA
3
A
( )
s
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
(0
9
10
J
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.98)
SP-P
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
8-16-44
FILE
20487
ANRAANA,CALIF
417
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
LOCATION
OBS
PMC
18135
CALL
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
A1-3
3
455
15
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GOOD HAND KEYING.
BY:
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
0232
E E E (LONG DASH) KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
0235
E E E E E E VE VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES LF
AMERICA STOP HELLO AMEPICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING
THE UNITED STATES IN THE MERICAN HUUR OF THE DJAKARTA RADIO
STATION STOP OUR CALLING SIGN IS PMC WAVENENGTH 1-135 KILO-
CYCLES THAT 1S 16.G9 METERS STOP CUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA
BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HCURS PACIFIC WAR TIMES STOP IN THE NEXT
ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TC YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT
NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING CN INTERNATILNAL AFFAIRS STOP
UUR ONLY OBJECT IS TC INFORM YOU OF EVI NTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST
0241
AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY (PAUSE)
IT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TC HAVE TC NEWS WHICH WILL BE
BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN THE AMERICAN
BROA EEEE I I AMERICAN PROGPAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BRCADCASTING
( )
STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM AR BI BI KAIA KAIA KAIA DE
s
1
PMC PMC PMC (PAUSE) MWT MW113 EEEE LML 113 EEE AOK TIME LML
2
3
245
113 EEEEEE TOKYO TIME AR VA VA..
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.94)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
TO THE SECRETARY
06 2 4 1944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
PAPIMINT
1944
ATIONS AND
(E)
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
16/
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
894
Very truly yours,
J. E. Seeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
AUG 2 01944
PED
Enclosures
0
J
71365

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN.
FILE20487
FREQ KC
CALL
ANA CALIF
423
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
NAT
LIND TÓ KAIA
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
EMN
IGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
QRN LIGHT QRM HEAVY DIATHERMY
BY:
HAND SENDING VERY OOR AND
JERKY.
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
7
232 KAIA ( MUSIC CODE MIXED ) KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC PMC
7
KAIA
KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC ( ETC. )
7
236 ( DOTS ) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
3
STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING
3
IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATIONSTOP
44
OUR CALLINGSING IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS
 STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHT-
EEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NE UD NEXT ONE HOUR
WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND
REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTFNANTAIL AFFAIRS STOP OUR GR
JECTIS TOINFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INFEST AND IMPORT-
ANGE TO
IN YOUR COUNTRY AND****** (QRM)
ANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU
TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST
BY ME**** TELEPHONY STOP
s
1
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
2
3
THEM AR AR KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW AT AT 113
242 UD 113 TKS TK8 TKS VA VA VA EEETET EEETET
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT
WRITE
THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
1944
FILE 20487
566
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
CALL
NAT
N
TT
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
MAND KEYING
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
ETC EEEEEEFFEFEEEFRFEE KAIA KAIA
LLI ING THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING
THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKAHTA RADIO
STATION STOP OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC WAVELENGT 18.135 KILO-
CYCLES 1MI 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.60 MFTRES 1MI
16.G METRES STOP OUR PROGRAM E TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN
HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL
BE THANSMITTING TO YOU VITAILY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REELATIONS
BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT 18
TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE
TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE
GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU
TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROACAST BY WIRELESS
( )
s
TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE
1
2
DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION IMI DJAKARTA BROADCASTING
3
STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END BT KAIA KAIA TU
DE PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW 113 1MI TMW 130 TK2 TK8 VA VA VA VA
7
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIO'

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.94)
AB/L
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICAMIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
SEP 2 1944
CPE-FC
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
AUSTUNT
PI-1944
CONFIDENTIAL
894.76/9-244
MR. BERLE
File 20487
DECLASSIFIED
 1165
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
894.76/9.244
Very truly yours,
J. E. tteling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
SEP S-1944
Radio Intelligence Division
FILED
Enclosures
FOKEIGH
1944
CS/VC
UEPARTNON F SIAT
71365

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
28487
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
CALIF
417
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
OBS
18135
CALL
FREQ KC
(BLIND)
FREQ KC
NAT
TT.
1(A3) 3
565
FREQ KC
15
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT.
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GOOD HAND KEYING.
SEVERE FADING.
BY:
INDEXED PY
GMT:
ANALYST:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
0235EEEEEEEEE
KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES
IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF THE DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STUP OUR
CALL SIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18R135 1ML 18F135 KILOCYCLES THAT
1S 16R60 LL 16R60 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS
AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT UNE HOUR
WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND
REVELATIONS BEARING CN INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STCP UUR CNLY
OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT APE OF INTEREST AND
IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBLDY IN YOUR COUNTPY AND WHICH YUU CANNUT
OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WAPNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPAPE
YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BRCADCAST BY WIRELESS
( )
TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE
s
DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BI
1
2
KAIA KAIA KAIA TE PMC PMC PMC
3
4
243 NW NO MORE NXT TMW AT 11R35 LML 11P35 TOKYOTIME TKS VA VA
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE20407
b0-23-44
FREQ KC
ANA CALIF
423BS
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
CALL
1
NAT
TT
CALL
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
QRN NEAVY QRM NIL HAND SENDING
BY:
VERY POOR.
INDEXED BY
GMT:
23 KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC ( ETC.
2JS ( DOTS ) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC
WAVELENGTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 188D METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME
TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE
MEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT
NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR
ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND
IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUP COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT
OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE
YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS
TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMEPICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA
BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM AR AR AR KAIA KAIA
( )
KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW AT AT 1030 UD 113 TKS TKS TKS VA VA
s
242 VA VA VA VA VAEEETET
2
3
5
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
25 44 FILE 20487
FREQ KC
ANA CALIF
423
WORKS:
CALL
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
18135
FREO KC
NAT
ORKS:
BLIND TO KAIA
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
A-2
33
1PM
GMT
EMN
FADE
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION: QRN LIGHT
FMN
QRM NIL HAND KEYED FAIR
INDICATORS:
UBED R FOR DECIMAL POINT.
BY:
INDFXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
234 KAIA'KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC ( ETC. )
238 ( DOTS ) KAIA KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN
THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALLISIGN IS
PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 UD 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.6 UD 18.6
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS
PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING
TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND PEVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATION-
AL AFFAIRS STOP YOUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT
ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO
YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY
WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRANMES OF THE
DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BT KAIA KAIA
KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC NW NO MORE NXT TMW AT 11.35 UD 11.35 TOKYO
( )
s
244 TIME TKS VA EEETET
2
3
10
TO UNIT:

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.93)
CREFC
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE BECRETARY
SEP 4 194
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
RECEIVED
File 20487
894.76/9-444
(5)
小
DECLASSIFIED
Qtve
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
31
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Steling
CS/MAH
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
SEP 7 1844
ilo
/l
OPAHTMINI OF STATE
71365

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE 20487
CALL
FREQ KC
BAANA，CALIF
617
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
FREOKCI5
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
DE
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
GOOD HAND SENDING.
BY:
iNDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
235 (DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE U ITED
STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUH OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP
11
OUR CALLSIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18R135 1ML 18R135 KILOCYCLE8
THAT 1S 16R6? LAL 16R60 METRES STOP UR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA
BEGINAS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT
ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT
NEWS AND REVALATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP
OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF
INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS
SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NES WHICH WILL
BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE
( )
AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION
1
YOU WILL PR FIT BY THEM BI KAIA KAIA TU PMC PMC PMC
2
242 NW NO MORE NXT TMW AT 11R35 1ML 11R35 TOKYOTIME TKS VA YA
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( )

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
2944 FILE
20487
ANA, CALIF.
417
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
ION
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
WORKS:
CKAIA (BLIND)
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
FMN
INDICATORS:
GOCD HAND SENDING.
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
233
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (3 MIN)
236
(DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED
STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP
OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 1SR135 IMI 18P135 KILOCYCLES
THAT IS 18RG0 LL 18RG0 METRES STOP CUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA
BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT
ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPOPTANT
NEWS AND REVELATI NS BEARING CN INTERNATILNAL AFFAIRS STOP
OUP ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF
INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TC EVERYBUDY IN YOUF COUNTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS
SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL
BE BROADCAST BY WIPELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE
( )
AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION
s
1
YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BT KAIA KAIA KAIA TU PMC PMC PMC
2
30243
NW NO MORE NXT TM AT 11R35 LML 11R35 TOKYOTIME TKS YA YA
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS (

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
20487
ANA CALIF.
417
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
ON
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ 18135
NAT
VORKS:
KAIA (BLIND)
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
A-2
335
15
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
FAIR HAND SENDING.
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
231
XAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC PAUSING FREQUENTLY)
236
EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKAPTA BJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN
THE AMERICAN HOUR OF LML OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION OUR
CALLSIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 113 KILOCYCLES THAT IS 1680
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TC AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN
HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT WXMA ONE HOUR WE
SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YLU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND
0240
REVELATIUNS BEARING ON INTERNATION A (PAUSE DASHES)
0241
(OFF)
( )
S
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRI

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
20487
FREQ KC
MTA ANA, CAL.
417
WORKS:
CALL
OBS
FREQ KC
CALL
18135
NAT
FREQ KC
WORKS:
TT
FREQ KC
42
335
15
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
CMN
INDICTORS:
GOLD HAND KEYING.
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
0230
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
EEE KAIA KAIA CALLING THF UNITED STATES OF AMFRICA STOP
HELLO AMFRICA THIS IS DJKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN
THE AMERICAN HOUR OF THE DJAKAFTA PADIC STATILN STOP OUR CALLSIGN
IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS 1F.60 METRES STOP
OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTFEN HCURS PA IFIC WAR
TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUP WE SHAL BE T' ANSMITTING TO YOU
VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS REAFING CN INTERNATILNAL
AFFAIRS STOP YOUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFOR" YCU OF EVENTS THAT
ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TC EVEPYBUDY IN YLUR COUNTFY AND
WHICH YCU CANNCT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO
YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICI WILL BE BRADCAST
BY WIPELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO TE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATIUN YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BI
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC BI TMW TM AT SAME TIME AR VA VA
239
1
2
3
7
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE -- CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PR

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.97)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
TO THE SECRETARY
SEP 1 2 1944
EPEFC
AND STAN PS
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
894.76/9-1244
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
DECLASCIFIED
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours.
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
SEP 2 0 1944
FILED
SEP11944
DEPARTWENT OF STATE
CS/VC
71365

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.97)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
-A-SPP
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
EPT. 7,144
FILE
2048
853
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
WORKS:
BLIND TO KAIA
CALL
FREQ KC
TT
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
HAND SENDING
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
J232 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
3234 DOTS
234.5 KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO AMERICA
THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN
HUUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH
18R135 IMI 18R135 KIL0CYCLES THAT 1S 16RB0 IMI 18R68 METRES STOP
OUR PROGRAME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME
STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HCUR WE SHALL B: TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY
IMPURTANT NEWS AND REVELATICNS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTER-
EST AND IMPORTANCE TO  EVERYBODY IN YOUR CCUNTRY AND WHICH YOU
CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING  FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO
PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRE-
LESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE
( )
DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM BT KAIA KAIA
s
1
KAIA TU DE PMC PMC PMC NW NO MORE NXT TMW 11R35 IMI 11R35 TOKYO
2
3
TIME  TKS TKS SK SK
51242 (END TRANSMISSION AND INTERCEPT)
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS
SPACE
3-8P-P
FILE
9-6-44
20487
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
LOCATION
SANTA ANA
CALIF.
oaS
39
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
PMC
18135
CALL
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT
WORKS:
KAIA (BLIND)
CALL
FREQ KC
TT
A-2
347
15-18
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
SOME QRN NO QRM
INDICATORS:
HAND KEYED.
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
232 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
O235 EEEEEEEEE KAIA CALLING THE UNIT:D STATFS OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA CAL'ING THE UNITED STATES
F AMERIDA IN THE AMERI AN HOUR OF KJAKARTA RADIO STATION
THE CALL SIGH IS PMC  AVELENGTH OF 1135 KILICYLES THAT
IS 16G METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMFRICA BEGINS AT
EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE
HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANS: ITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT
BE
NEW AND REVELATICNS DURING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
STOP OUR NLY OBJFCTIVE
THAT ARE OF
INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUUTRY
AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET
THIS WARNING
IS SENT TO YOU
THE NEWS WHICH WILL
BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS
STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN
( )
PROORAMME OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING Y UR WILL
s
18341
PROFIT BY THEM AR KAIA DE PMC TWM AT 1130 TKS VA
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:
一

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
-2-8PP
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
15/44
FILE20487
TAN ANA, CALIF.
853
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
CALL
FREQ KC
PMC
18135
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
NAT.
BLIND TO KAIA
CALL
FREQ KC
TT
222
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
'NDICATORS:
POOR HAND SENDING
BY：
ANALYST
GMT:
233
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
0235
DOTS SN KAIA KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKAPTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN
THE AMERICAN HOUR OF QE DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP CUR CALLI EEEE
BXKXIN OUR CALL SIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS
1BAAAG METRES STOP CUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN
HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT NE HCUR WE SHALL BE TRANS-
MITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPOPTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP CUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF 
EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR
CCUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH
IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YCU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE
BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TC THE AMERICAN
PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKAPTA BROADCASTING AXRR STATION YOU WILL PRO-
( )
FIT BY THEM END AR KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PC TMW AT 1135
s
1
TOKYO TIME END AR SK SK SK
2
242
(END TRANSNISSION AND INTERCEPT)
5
6
7
8
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.97)
X
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
TO THE SECRETARY
SEP 1 5 1944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
SEP 251944
File 20487
DIVISION OF
894.76/9-1544
1944
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours.
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
DECLASSIFIED
594.76
By.
Enclosures
/9-1544
CS/VC
71368

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.98)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
1-44
FILE 20487
FREQ KC
CALL
ATAANA
CALIF.
39
WORKS:
6BS
FREQ KC
ON
CALL
18135
NAT
FREQ KC
DRKS:
KAIA (BLIND)
TT
CALL
FREQ KC
A-2
8-3
15
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
HAND SENDING
INDICATORS:
NO QRM
BY:
SOME QRN
ANALYST
GMT:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
235 KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STAT S OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS KJAKARTA CALI ING THE UNITED STATES K IN
A THE AMERICAN OF DJAKARA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGH 
18 PMC WAVELENGTH 18R135 K1LICYCLES X THAT 18 16R60
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN
HOURS PACFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT NE HOUR WE WHALL
BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITATLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND
REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP UR
ONLY OBJECTION IS TC INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST
AND IMPORTANCE TO FVERYBODY IN YOUR COUUTRY AND WHICH YOU CANN
OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO
PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH ILL BE BROADCAST BY 
P
WIRELESS TELEHHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMME
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADOASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
( )
5
THEN BT
1
2
242 KAIA TU DE PMC NW TMW NEXT TWM 11R35 TNX VA
5
6
8
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.95)
FORDEFENSE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESB ALL COMMUNICATIONE
BUY
TO THE SECRETARY
UNITED
STATES
8EP 25 194
LAVINGS
BONDS
AND STAM PS
REOMIVED
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
SEP 291944
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
DIVISION OF
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
DECLASSIFIED
354.70/5-2544
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours.
J. E. Sterling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
SEP 2 9 1944
894.76
5
71365
44

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE 20487
MA CALIE.
827
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
OBS
18135
CALL
FREQ KC
FREQ KC
NAT
KAIA (BLIND)
CALL
FREQ KC
TT
A-2
225
18
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
HAND SENDING
INDICATORS:
NO QRM
BY:
SOME ORN
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
232 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC
(REPEATFD)
(DOTS) VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED
STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKAHTA RADIO STATION
STOP OUR CALL SIGN 1S PMC WAVELENOTH 1S135 KILOCYCLES THAT
IS 16.60 METRES STOP OUR PR GRAMME TO AMERICAN BEGIN8 AT
EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC AR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR
WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND
REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY
OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND
IMPO EEEEEEE FEFEEEEEEEEFEEEEEEEEEEE IMI IMI RPT RPT EEEEEE
OUR ONLY OBJE'T IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF
INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND
WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS
SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL
S
BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE
1
2
AMERICAN PROGRAMME OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION
YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM IMI YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END
END END END BT
KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC PMC LISTEN
10
0243
TOMORROW AT 113 TOKYOTIME IMI IMI 113 TOKYOTIME VA VA VA
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
_FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
204:7
FILE
FREQ KC
CALL
WORKS:
NACALIF
FREQ KC
CALL
18135
NAT
FREG KC
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
FADE
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
INDICATORS:
VERY POOR HAND SENDONG
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC (EEC )
235 DOTS KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP UR CALL SIGN
1S PMC AVELENGTH 18135 THAT 1S 1660 METRES STOP OUR PRO-
GRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC HAR TIME
STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO VITALLY
IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING N INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT
ARE OF IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH
YOU CANNOT OTHERWIS! GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT
TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE
BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN
PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL
PROFIT BY THEM KAIA XAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW AT 1130 TKS TKS
( )
1
TK8 TKS SK SK SK
2
239 (END TRANSMISSION AND INTERCEPT)
5
6
7
8
9
10
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( , PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.97)
AB/L
DEFENSE
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25 D. C.
ADDREGS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
BUY
TO THE SECRETARY
(NITED
SEP 26
spb-FC
SEI1944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
DIVIGION OF
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
1944
File 20487
MR.
BFRLE
894.76/9-2644
DECLASSIFIED
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Sterling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
SEP2 91944
PILED
194
894.76
19-2644
71365

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.99)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
20487
FILE
FREQ KC
CALIF.
807
WORKS:
CALL
OBS
FREQ KC
CALL
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
325
15
GMT
FADE
WPM
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
EMN
INDICATORS:
POOR HAND KEYING
BY:
INDEXED BY
GMT:
0231
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (REPEATED ) (DOTS)
0233
VE VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN
HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGN IS PMC
AVELENGTH 18135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.60 1MI 16.60 METRES
STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS
PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEYT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE
TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALIY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS
BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS
TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANGE
TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHER-
WISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE
YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS
TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF
THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM
()
AR AR BT BT BT
1
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW 1130 IMI 113 TOKYO-
2
243
TIME VA VA
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.80)
RESTRICTED
NOV 1-1806
114
NOV 7
copy
(Voluntary)
Trepare  Cri. chringor
mc
Rerereioc i uce to the  vatty's report no. l04, Jepte.ber
7, 194   tl   cl 
inso cepted ut   in. . te Ci Divi. lon o the o..I und
tranlalcd  e .cric. -oated Trealution Center. Taese
ure do o.olosco r nlaule or :i ilu cs  inccrec ted
durin t. s crio c te br i te 7, l, io ive.
Durin tie prind, t.e c.l  itorce  1 rce u ber of
a i.. v.riou. soouicu rou.o
c rdin te ev ou ia  e c  e llaron ro tho lere
sitier of men i. the cc ntrr 
te ocan o i tion cf Ta xnene
en fop cive soriee i to panect . Thee oe os re
ut ioludca  i. ie report.
i ..i..or
cuon curotury o  sby
praved:
121944
nciosure:
Tru : lation. or. o cr, no ct ted.
Cutrnee:
Gint avi lon, O.l, c .. crivu: Co-ord uutes Trunalation
. th  ...
p to ti Sopurt ont.

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.89)
.GHN, TO D   OF , 
   1.1244:
mackok (in inglich)
Thaisin, Shanghai
whise pepper what price? Reply. hite popper superior l1o,
ardimmry 100 purchased. nteatcr soalo 30 piculs, price 280
mow 300. Tin bar no coode. lig Kie 770, 755. New vogetable
seod no buyer.
Thai Sin-chan
z. Shanchai (in nglich)
Tongah, 141 Wat Tuk, Ban kok
Pay Lim Tim-mow saw:ill 1,000. Obtain reccipt.
on On-ting
3. Canton (in English)
Contindoo, Saigon
The armount ve have alrc.dy paid sufficiently cover for beans.
Mease inform bank roleaco beans to us. Tai Fung have already
takon 100 bags of beuns. Regarding creps, we pay on the 15th
of septer bcr. Due to heavy loss in cxchance, please inform
bank charge ne intcrcst. Referrin: buciness your condition,
where for 2 tone of coods, of 1 ton we are reudy to chip.
hen can you start?
Tso K
4. Shan ha1 (in Englich)
Wondland, 1360 liai Lerts Yark, anjkok
Joloved. 250. Dyinc reunion.
Kmn
5. Bangkok (dated ugurt 4; i  li.)
Catinet, tcctloln
G. Pre: icent Counoil Rc ene, rince thit, tendered resina-
tion Soth July hich cc iy pplos cprc: ent tiver accented
lst uguct, cub c ucntly a  intiae ponalaine.c.ber rici
Phane vong, Por orly Luan, Pradit uudhur., sole Recent.
n: cndt
0. lanok (dated uust 4; in lir)
Okura, Tolyo
50. .0counting end of July: c. 4,037.79, overaraft 675,204.00,
Dig:0st in July 798,402.1, cntcrtain cnt 359.90.
On Ura (Okura?)
7. Ban kos (duted ujurt 5; i.. nslish)
Cabinot, stociol
7. avinet having resi ned cabloo, ajor huan pheiwonc.
foruerly uany novid, appointed ne: itire .inister; also
holding portfolios finunce and o unicatienc ctc. ...
B. Bankok (date ust 5; in  iich)
Interoroixrcuge, Ocnova
Plcace tologruph oota. al Prirun, Ihutta Cistrict Ca bulpur.
Indiu: cre a i  oil. nxlour n out you. wico your wclfare.
Chunilal."
Thuiorors 09
: Thit erpu.e it reprccent tive of : ov.rul othere
pent by Thsicrots, uncok, to Intororoixrouge.
Geneva, re arcin: e cl: re f Indione in Thoilond.
ill are  ted ilu.t U uill utvi urly cre hold by
conser until s te..ber 1. - c
2.0

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.92)
(in lic)
 so our tclcgran l4th uguwt, aid you send soout
es Mawaguehi 2446 251 232 234 …a11 merine?
(No sigmoturo)
10. Bamckok (duted ugust 4; in sngl1ch)
Toltohama pecie Bank, Tokyo
49197. Recoive from M1tcub1shichoku Yen 40800.51 a0count
rioe.
Mishizaki
11. Nagoya
Shachihoko, Saigon
Re clinicei thernomotor and steroomcter you need, though
we have done our bert, it is inmpossible to get.
Katoh
12. Bangkok
The Peraonnel Dept., Uneikai (The Transportation Lanagement
Association), Tokyo
Cee our wire of July 7. Our staff wombors are safe.
Yasuda
13. Qsaka
Iwasakical, Saigon
stick lacqucr. Re 83, 10 tons, 234 k110s; 70%, 9 tone, 300
kilos; 72.5,, 40 tons snown in your invoice, please arrange
so thut they may be shipncd.
itsubishi
14. Saicon
Xitsui, Changhai
No.455. soe our 453. e uanko's und Tomen's lot of hides,
Shanghai authorities ncoti ted ror chipent by wire. c shall
be unuble to  ate c.rlior s..i  cnt of our lot unlcur yon ask
than to nogotiate. 'lcase do eur best an reply.
Lit: ui
15. Haiphone
Litoubiz.isloji, Pokyo
No. 4. voo your viro no. 94 to the uchinery cpart cnt. 
coods made by Gettuc(?) Inductry ac corplctcly ccatrollcd
by Frcnch Iadoohi:m  uthorities, it is not vorth usc. Re noval
help, ve have no proepcot. We canccl converter unt  Itohbourd.
Plonse conrir:: and reply.
Xitrubishi
16. Hanoi
Nichimcn, Duiren
No.7. Soe your wire no. l0. Re remaining hinese redicines
at Kobc, at Yon 44,Oil.81, tio buyer has alroady paid bill
in advance. Ouing to dirfioult aitu.tion, pleaso repay by T.T.
Michicon
17. Hanoi
toui Tard: are wopart ent, Tokyo
to. soz. what lus beeane of thu unt hippcd portion of the
Luportant : aterialc for railway. Roply by vire.
:1teuibucoun
10. Toisve

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.91)
saicea
busimess. Regarding bepte..ber 1, please refer se
over wishes that the 17 tons bo sold to the anacenent
ment regarding price. xpenses sinco June have all been aseor-
tained.
Kanonatou
19. Viohy
Kinoshita Cctsu, Chinonomeoho, Singuusa, Jakayama refeoture,Osakm
Are you all cafe? I am cafo hcre.
Kojiro
20. Tokyo
Allir (probably A'liwai, Saion)
No.l4s. Re your wire of the 18th re the clcotrio wclding machines.
we have contacted llaiphong and ve are now ra:ing procedures for
transporting then to your branch.
Iwai Industry
21. Osaka
Japan Cotton Co., Saigon
No. 12. Mo our wire no. 10 please reply ium diately. Please
register the telegraphic address in Japaneso"Niminen"
Cukuki
22. Bangkok
Yoshio aruya a, ichima, Fuji aki Roud, Sizuoka Frofcoture
will leave hcre at the ond of ti i: : onth, via Siagupore, Bntaviu
and Manila, on return tri. Tla. c notify thoso conc.rned.
5
23. ila
Yo: do Ihata, uruic i Cccticn, . o, Takunocho, Takao
Li chtere are noeded .. cur   louded here. ihing to
buy s fishin boats (bout 3o or. cpo er) at your place. dvise
thcir price. :oney ill be re. itted lere ... Ro-ly ctails by
vire.
(o ci.nature)
24. Junok
Haruichi Iata, Scnbe. Osaka
.. contrelled Pir: t ba: factery (all be lct cut. nd for
purctacc ull fucilitice or tic uctory u ounts to Tr ts 15,000.
Output or 30 cpinning : nc inec is coo buo pcr day. Matcriale
aro a ppliod uy itaubirhi. anuu actured coode to be sold to
: it: ubiehi, Mcase approve.
Ivata
25. ntsur:oto
Chiryu ura o, Miko, Kaigun Roud, acaccar
16 perooni arrivod.
Tomoko
20. 11
Icalichiro Honji, aruichi scotion, S/. "orie vond, Takao
No is vorking at ... For cnlar in transportution ef materials
und cuur, li tert ure ncodod ur cntly. 2 fio. in boata (Go
horse po ar) will be boucht at your pl ce. oney can be ra itted
frou. thin pl ce. aftor udvicins cutuiled cincitione of cin and
their prioet, plouce help aply for romittance.
(Xo cinuture)
27. Tokyo
:itoubi. l:i. an kok
Máre no. See reccived. Brocry work re huve not yet been picked
up. de : all et more than 10 vorkors by all porriblo moans.
Inductrial Departient

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.90)
. I want to return to Nanking.
moeeres horn what price both lst and 2nd olass?
Chip Tai
s0. mmagkok (1n Englioh)
Swedish inister, Tokyo
4. Cabinot having rerisned enbloc, ajor Khuang Aphaiwong,
formorly Luang Khovid, appointed new Prime Linister also holding
portrolios Finance and Conmunications. New Minister Forcign
Affairs Nai Lee Sena, forzorly Phya Srisena, Aibacsador at
Tokyo.
instedt
31. Bungkok (dated ucust 5; in nlien)
Thainiyom, Tokyo
Re your telecrar 2nd. .grccable paying Fujicima Yon 40,000.
Covorn ent authoritics only pcrsit uso of fund for purohase
our goods, therefore ss! Fujithima. to buy coods for Thai Niyom.
Thai Niyon
32. Bangkok (dated ucurt 4; in German)
rc. chridt, cere of Ohlc, 45 scrstrasse, Derlin
Vury happy about thc nes. re wcll; ope yo: ure thc same.
Heartiest wiahos to all.
Ireno, Franz Ohle
35. Tokyo (in French)
Lasayuki Yokoya, c/o Jspanosc .bassy, Lanoi
Lasuhiro Yokoya a arrived rlin  ust 21 with hir far ily.
Fr.nco-Ja uncec Bank
34. Changha1 (in Fr nei:)
Denycina, Caion
rvt 26 ugust. Sincere thankr. Glad to ro ly to your telcgran:
w ioh cs. c tirouch O.. ll i. ood hcalth. "o conratulato
Tonicue.  coon us porsiblo cenfir that everybody ir uainjured.
including Horc ccux, frics. love.
Andre Fouet
35. Changhai (in Fronch)
Donyciana, Caigon
43/l1 Cavillon will sposit funds belonging to Vico Cru for whom
we are lad to open account, sincc c hus boen of i..portant holy
to our cospany; otlicrvisc orcdit uocount. ndrc Fouct
36. Tokyo
ndo, itcui, aicon
Your lotter . la3 hes arrived. Re our vire antea tie coth, cven
if they chould bo threc ti ce hi her then .arket price, please
offer. It ir now ncoussory to ruturn the curplur chip. flcese
roply Lmediately.
Sc. pi (lides co.)
37. Dangkok (astcd uguot 4; in Ger...an)
Politiquo, Jern
44. lut of fvivo in thir coutry  ith th.ir oc carrceser:
I. Bantli - ntli, uc: cli: cG, wurioh: B. rouc.oe - ct.cl,
urioh: 3. Decen - lirzbeth De on, elicrin, ursee; 4. clicr 
Ponny ol. cr, Flowil; 5. licmhrt - .rlotte ahart, Proburg
strause 79 (Lurich ?): 0 . Jcthels 7. luduch r - Lawyer Davi.
Daahostranre 56, urich; 8. Illi - so n, Jonov;
2eruek

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.94)
Mose Xreok, Taher . (?), Haibema 1. Le
Methelm, Zurieh; l8. Vogeisanger - Vogolsanger, Neudorf, Vswil.
Siegenthaler
38. Bangkok (dated August 4; in Freuch)
Louemberger, 57 Seevorstadt, Beilbern
Mails temporarily interrupted; received none or your letters.
verything continues to go well; hope the same for you. sweet
kisses, thoughts.
Leuenberger
TRAFFIC ON SPTDIBER 2, 1944:
39. Saigon
Mumotaros Osaka
At the and of the month, the red figure Yon 35, 448. 44; the
highost rod figure on the 2lst 1s Yen 40,358,04; the highest
red figure on the 9th is Yen 7. 711. 34. Mr. Yckoyama Shire left
here yesterday. He 1s expecteu to arrive at Bangkok on Tueaday.
Please contact at your slde too, The reudjustment or the
retailerm will be decided upon shortly. The prinoiple is
formulated as one import trader to une retailer. e have
contauted Japan cotton Co. Have you contucted Kawa?
Yanroto
40. Saigon
Mitsui, Tokyo
No.990. Attention Foodstuffu Dept. e lust paragraph of our
letter dated Oot. 20, iast year. 'e have stuuied the design
of the emergenoy wurehouse office ut the spot; sinoe that
time (TR: a few words are missin hure; but the possible
olause is: but now we have the consent or -?) Kuvahara, the
Consul. The construotion will begin shortly and is expeoted
to be completod at the end of the year with Yen 130, 000 as
installation expenses. 3o tle construction expeuses of the
mergoncy warelhouse will be as fullows: (unit Yen l00) ware-
house 10,530; reclamation and shore proteotion works 830; moor-
ing post 138; floor-boarding works 1,188; pavement and drainage
works around the builuing 1,00c: orrice room 1. 300; Totel 14.986.
The femee around the building is practioully unnecessary: we
will ommoel this part of the dusign.
Branch Chiur
41. Saigon
Mitsui, Tokyo
No. 989. The purohasing report no. 263 of the 30th (Mitsui
Varehouse portion): (2) 100 B 1. 200 bags or 120 kilotons:
40 4,996 bug or 199 k11otons 84C. Total 6,196 bag of 319
k1lotoms 840. (3) 70E 1,285 bage or 89 k1lotuns 950; 40E
560 bugs of 227 kilotons 600. Totul 6,975 bugs or 315 kilotons
550. Aggregate 13,181 bags 637 k1lotons 390.
Nitsui
42. Saigon
Mitmui, Tokyo
No.991. Attention Foodssurfs Depurtment. The purohasing report
mo. 264 or the 3lst (0 port1on). (1) 100B, 5,100 bagm, 510
kilotons.
Mitsui
43. Baigom
Missui Line, Tokyo
Mo. 317. See your No. 247. Hondu who brought the Goueral Afrairs
Department Maneger's letser of introduetion, Kumori and 4 others
of Kohaku Co. who were destimed for Burme lert safsly.
Bramen Mannger

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.81)
o a total a ount of ia: troi Lo0,0.C. c ure ackc to puy
balanee at l'ia: tros l00,000. c ure no oti.tinc t.rough authop
ties. But we sall bo oo. pellod to puy ti.at fund. rleare advise
s.
:itcui
45. Tokyo
:itsul Dus. an, Fortbayard
Letter fra. llongkong o. 5 of the lut roccivod. we huve already
ne purohase of puper, C..incse cuicines anc iscoilaneous
coone, (cetells t rouch Ikeda) si hin approxiintcly 3o toit.
Flo so ak oforte to ship loc-mut bu to o.o by junk
through laa unu ccnly. No odt c.oun in invoice for French
Incoo. ine, pleare mke cup ic rhipcnt of rico-rat bage. The
next chipment o: othe: in or cod vill oc tacou un olc i voice.
it: litnt sun
46. aya
itcui, aigon
"o.78. ee your viro o. 5. ave you nogotiated it ica"
for rubber buraketto (TR: lanitots - ?) for .ic Tobacoo Co.?
Owing to un?riendly r:latione c hvo ith tr der, we cannot
export the.. If you as: clutely ncod,c via:l neotiate vith
other firr. How? Reply
itau'but san
47. iansok (dated t 7;  li:.)
Intcroroixrouce, Gcncve
59/20. Yo w s95. vut1sructory cxcian.c cuclc: vitn :ci.cizer
in lish langua e po ilo. U o su cstion Tkyo Colc .tion
al.o obtaiseu per. iisio., fro. locul pa tai uut.ori tiegfor ro-
forvarding  ur .a:l to -c cinec. roteoting po cr scnt coth
u, .      .o rr p o l.
th po ...19... i i. roitce.
48. Tolyo
e r tt om l cn. o sinous i cooperatto. iuh Nake
Waugai can ofrer con i lt  out. setails  lctter or the
lath.  ure l pi m.  Pilicase  otitio. l
Makaori, le .e teli a. te ro. mcct c  I inccs ilccre and
cooointtru.. for irc.
40. 0. ka
io1,0ion
(1) a. cate of cettla  nt of account, c  i to cle  tho bur noro
on the lot t. le.c   t tory o :lock ()  ror te
ret. t c ut or t. i 1 be c o. clcare. i. ou
iiv tory m pt.  a carry it r: r. til Cot. ; ( ) len.e
au oti te I re. a o. ice for the bul r oo ire ip Avaice ro
t.t it  cu t  te  ber t  ine; (a) o ot cr
reerts, iouso toll b tre  c ur coro.
lon
50. Ocaka
Loni: on, ani
wire a.Be. co yo r 1re n. 102. 3c t iii c Itivation of costem
for l943. the ren:rt of settlo ent of ucont sul: ittet is r fely
muogo.. In or or to ct a it iy. it i. nece. ory to  and  u
plane sn o.ul liv tio.. and alant ade oy at..outa to the accc nt.
I iyeotor. Plo. cc ru: oit -lano ai for. r: tihe. uy air ail.
 S
81. Couka
Yacroto, i on
The peiou or nico 1o r..u. Yon .20.
Yamumoto Incurtry

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.84)
ke ship.ent.
Ci
minmm (Yulin)
 ls inotrueted thnt all i..surance cocuento be caplcted at
she wery day. leute contuct tnc suinihon at your place and
Md er. Plemre tac t co y o rinc in uranoe polioy fro
. Yamadu.
vaikyo
64. Oeake
O.S.X. Stennship Tinc, lanoi
No.6. It is eci e th t our fir's Great ast sia marine
transportation proli.inury  cetin: : uall be hold an "rom
September once every tirec : Oltlic. Is thcre any suggestion that
tho Yet mecting be hel t Tokyo during ciret ten duys of
September? Please rcply ir c.:iatuly.
ukino
65. Osaka
Uruchi, Hanoi
He anprove your shop ar Toyo  soci tion's .pccial agent.
Japan ur-r xport  socition
50. Ocaka
Baiken, Manoi
There i. a roquest fron the totton eucciution. Plensc vend
roparutcly the firat tcr. nlant tion : cedo cocord'ne to
ortt. ater ecided upon  the ci: tion.
Sanko : ead Office
57. 0a0
Kuhon. Branoh of  bun, Cai n
Contuct Tele raph  toe co copire cegictr tien or onule
adreso (Sai on al) in vi of c taolist ent of oneto
Iun uage tele cu h orice. loe ale arrun c.cnts Por
rco. iver to pay.
1.to
58. O.aka
aura Tndil i
Tho :attert of u ser to:  r. i ci.s. u. ullo unces for
cp loycet are pr ol .avic. it iil ve hope.  if certific te of
po erf il .ii: try muthoritics i. uv.ilu. lc. Rc I ree lt of
aplic.tion in ctil.
( riure)
59. oing
Maoliacry une .etui section,  iteubishi, Osska
Import nore spccial i: tons. ocal barcy hus scat ire to
inirtry of rc. tor ast iatic ffaire rercin t t.
Certirioxte viil c rcnt to you itin  or 5 cuys.
(Xo cinaturo)
60, Tokyo
aubbu ito, o/o  iteu s  o
Vino ur it bcil aco at Juva. Trere it hope ut your place too.
To: jui
61. ikugo
Toslo Yonoyama, wn ko ronoh of ast ie . urinc Prant ort:
tion Co.. Ban o
ire received. icu (: pro mly a c c? u  (ets cil.
pchiraey (Tm: probab nic or a chip) ulroucy arrive  re.
(c rinaturo)
. reking
Tochio

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.78)
- 0 •
. Kite :atr  vic, inuio refeeture
..otoient
Dangkok (in nlic.)
ted teu: I voicos cent ur ti.ct. la px rronully posce. cod
eacplete extra coplec. ck hir furnish bank. Rc it vithout
delay.
in.; Foong
65. Tolyo (In nglish)
Svenske Kuilagor, Gothenburg
Dairon July cales bearings ,150.; tota1 27,813.9; cost
1,020.95; import expona0s 53.64; profit ...; 1o:s 2,158.85;
total 10ra 14,005.52.
HF Industri es
66. Ooaku (in n lich)
Thai vocreroial Ban, sanok
Yours lsth received esth. Infimi tely regrct i postibility
cranting ovcrdrufts forci co u.tries during ar period.
wics lank Corpor.tion
67. Bangkok (lated mugust is; i. n li:n)
Okura, Tokyo
58. erer your 15. Our telc ra:. 50 repcat ac o1lous:
Ac0ounting end of July,cash 4,057.79, overdraft 075,264.60,
biccest 1n July 798,402.1s, catcrt.in..cnt 59.90.
ORura
G. n ok (ated gt  n lis)
Yok . pecie , to.o
5529. Recuive ro.. it b  Yen 79,550..3 account
rice.
i. 
. (  1.)
yifcu, mccl
cond cuarter, rc. i  tc. . to. co i. ie ...
(o  ture)
70.  (dted t 7 i )
Urricio Tforicni, Vatic vity
use 1 rr.  tte :i C v Ccipioni Percci, rejiced
Por . Tt 1     : 
neo 77 vi:
L , c. c .
c.1.
otti
71.   (d 7 )
arenc, loo
co. ul co'u n oi i.cter ra; .to vcd t.icc. ide
Shic
(1.)
ri
P Fo to r: .  1  or 
vi  .       to
ro  o. ir     t
telo .. i f tor: dte  i to.  re i. ist  te .
10
70. 1 (in -111)
Tu The houn. u we cr ri,  ion
Rd
onun

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.82)
(dasdt 12)
ahe shortge of one oune of u ilk 
tanabc
78. laraptha, (dated uuct 11)
Taiwan Cotton Co.,Taihoku
M. lim, the aployce, ha: suu..itted notico of rosi nation in
ordor to ttart buginers of Lis om. Tero it no hope of acting
Fuxuyuio
hir to remain at thc noot.
76. Bangrok (dated ust 11)
O.s.., Kobe
Re the doou..ente of ps fro.. 8 to 29c (TR: Lome vords
uncleur). Senko hcre requcrted your b anch iasuc tio non-arrival
certiricute. Tloace arran c di. oussion with Ovuke ic:ho.
.tencbe
77. Saicon
Daikcn Industry, Osaka
No.4. Lalunce sheet for thi: onth:  rofit, iastrcs 39,164.41;
Lors of lwiber, 4,261.26. The 1temf of lots of lu ber are as
follows: Salcs profit, 11,085.00; xpenses, 21,910.74; Rig!t
of u ing, 6.906.00; Dcstruction by fire, 51,450.00.
Diken
78. nonckok (dated auguot 10)
Tois in Truding. aayarute veue, obe
soco. rearl shipment origial cocl cnts lost. Forwurd copice
i. mediatoly.
Karnitha
79. caion (dated uust 3; in ranch)
clch or, Cxy.onc. "hahai
noolt: u uot 207,00, 1.913, 469, 174, 110, 48. I. pocs1bls
to co..u.icte ith Lr mcton. Tor lile ia urence .nter to1
sl. to se 1d: Frane G0.7u0.17. .i cu. 1er  s to bc retired
alter c yuure . crvico; c u cst tt you rant i..  allo unce
of .i trer .oo. or onu at t. ed f t yr c oust
to you   vo  lt yor. cu otu. i treu .oo.
Por  larice   u ett to  i -coet-o-livi allo ance to
su: l  t     r: o,  i.
cu T in. For occa, t icu,  lie cost--l'vin allo unco
increnscd iurtre: lto. do rcutons ef fomk.iitie: of ud inistra-
ti..
o t cnc to let  no. your ciri n a i un 
por stblo.
Aribarrnuo
cc..
: ...
e e   for r Yon . . cion.
....
81. latow
The Orientul cotton uo.,i on
yo.l. te your leuter of e. u. louoc cer t I. t icoo
of dri a siri p,  ito mp r, corfec an voricnt : orte of beend.
Orisital cotton co.
62.1001
donor.i faim opurt ont cod, na, coad orfico, uiren
rolloiar control  .. ovor Japancso Firo cre,e re for ally
deleated ut t'c pri.:e and lund trant ortution truder t r utim the
bn.f. f ticre ae i muntitice of odr mie tped I hone you
wiil ke further c fortt. o cver. ur inos ic rirk. Ithourh 
huve tricd our bu.t with Uesugi. tere uro ctil y in runoos.
mpoolnily shia:in ccut i: in se I foul uacucy. 7 wunt to toke
adace or r.  ti-. ut i on to n otito ith

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.87)
20
n to Hongon. Delivorcd om bulc or co ton yur
 (0n?) 200,000 to 1un nn the 50th
:1tcui Jussan
04. fortbayard
"itcui, Tokyo
Ho. Sa. Lee your Ho.376. Though Lortouyard ccountinc Dent. 1s
mcptiating with Tokyo coountin wepurt.ent for the zale of
:toriale ron in iavice to Kanan- vei (out  ina Trade),
we wioh to do bus ness ias c us bcrorc. Tleuse do your bcrt.
itrui butsun
05. Tokyo
Mitsui Bursan, Fortbayerd
1 No. G6 froi lon kong of the 1. t. fee yuur iro. Re rice-nat
bage ror Hoihow, pleise takc ueiivery latcr. Re junk to Macao,
because of certain oirou.st nces, pleaso tcll us b/ lotter.
..it:ui bu.sun
86. Tokyo
Shinrik, Salgpn
Shibuyu askod us to convey hir be et re ards to  ana cr Yuborure
Shin. Cnlbuya left for han hui t i: oraing. e sent Ca: cho 1
crank haft for iron minc. -. oni: ccrtiricate i. in casche's
huna. Re portc, e shall scna t..e.. to Ko: hira Ly noxt chip.
Father is bearin: thc respons: i ity of
. lc ic coin rio
bort for country. locce Fort nord.
Icceasuro
07. si on
"itsui, Tolyo
o. 1 Peoduturf e mrt ent. The collowins rice () ul ta on
delivery of Pro.. . it ui a c..cnc:
(2) 40
1.100 
0
400()
30
37
co C
4,054
4
,10
100 3
7.70
77
40 0
0
547
117
50
6,045
29
C50
(2) 30
2.993
179
580
50
7,400
74
750
(1) 70
71
5
70
40 C
CO
340
50
4,118
05
100 3
6,403
340
300
(4) 40 
1,40
000
(5) 70 )
100
7
40
11,048
441
920
50
15,602
669
100
40 
,960
158
400
50
11,100
EL7
500
(5) 0
1..94
77
350
00
750
6O
1,000
10
7,055
705
500
Totul:
100,908
,174
5,
T.e doou cntr  ve ben pent.
.itsui
ct. Hanoi
.   
no tiuted  it Toko... ril i to r.nt citu tion.
he will me stiuto it stior rir. or 1:s c: a.li.  cl hrou 
anoi e (Ina voy) t: c  chr or it it out ul1.
ie taluk, in viou or ciwrent citu tion icro, it   alio o
 uleto it it i. o   t c tr ir  ver

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.87)
er tne ter. ination or iport and export. 90 (7) moan
..be
.e (ded t 10)
Mitoubichi, Tainoku
At Bunekok (olan:) hao dit a proved or the Loshu tea toin in
your i.ivoio , we ure co.pcllod to c.nccl contract. .e paid control
Fces Banto 7,544 to Langi.ok Luiian Teu Control Branch on the 30th.
Mease nogotiuto Por rclund.
Litoubichi
so. Ban. .ok (dated uuct 0)
Kome ato. Taisoku
Received. as it is imporaiblo to .ake shipr.cnt for en ok by
Land excentinc cooit for  mili tary use, ple cas .ton transs! ipping.
Katoh
01. Banzkok (in nglis.)
1015, Chunghai
Gall arrangeent failer. vancel I.c. otato flcur fcll. ll
otherwise unfcrescen loss you undertac ros ponsisility. Inform
Lwutow our prorit. demit Bun: ot i.. cdiutely. If dcley again
don't blanc uo : ould nasty t in: ha pon to you. Roply.
Choon Tai
92. Changha1 (in lic)
Caoon Tui, pankoc
Your Swatow profit now ju. t anply perrit to rc:it carbagc seeds
hero and atow. oth o not  cnd.  i ,C. project to yend
by air.ail. n .cn l.c.
Chen -n
93. 1 (in 1)
Ca..ton rate 140.
94. n i (i li.)
iatr.de. kn cok
ve rold so ua reis  .0  per pical. salccce : toe catimmour
vorcinc.
Chins Yo ou Lih wa (?)
io. cnamai (in li: )
intrao, no
ere vant cnpor, me insist . o. Meane cu le nctruction.
Chins Too u
96. angkok (dntod Auguct 10; in German )
Hubacher, Dufourstrasse 55, Zurioh
hoping that we can cpend the next one together. Greetings to you,
ohildren, David, friends.
KarI Hubacher
97. Dansok (datcd uust 10; in Gcr u1)
Gehr, Hauptpuct ofrice of i ittry of Co. cunic tionc, Berlin
Thankr for July radio reotings.  pici. er if still ill; s fricndly
colleaguo in tnting care of hi... I . continuing ork in chion ai
on the diccovory of .oo (?), ruccesuful a imul-oxnorionte. tiene
to additional bi ls of cxchanc ut Frener't.  i:ros ilv, vcu-all,
:eicjo, arion.
Gelir
98. Hankok (in ronot)
rolitique Intorete, Jorn
 our z54. mirbrunner co.. uni uo: "38 critiri follo.in: crror;
ms rocn u sin pricct cikn teplc, ilc cdurin berbard
mo 1 on, 5 ay 1944 (our . 0  ust 1943, titlo ullo tno
Saigon ()".
Fiecontralor
28. cokve

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.85)
-12-
(ia drenen)
pom the order of Picrro vepeyre, obe, puy the
the exponses of urgent rcpuire on  (bu iness) premises
dwellin 0.
Duni. of Incochine
100. Nanking
Kiiohi Lakurai, lo. 6/18 Iinba: i, Lliba Distriot, Tokyo
H.ve you rocoived lcttor datcd lsth? Tuis ca.pany is antireky
bo eless. la ling to close down. lcase ive conoreto snawor
to contents of that letter.
i.o
101. Manking
Otashime, ureau Uief, ..., Tokyo
Branch ofrice plannins to buil airraid shelters. xpenses
involved Yen goo. Please anprove.
Yukar.1
102. Bankok
Homotaro, Osaka
Grateful to you for the worries and sorrowe sou : ared ith e.
The case has finally been brou ht to a final lettlement with
thc holp of  ilitory authoriti os and .basey.
... ... left for
Sai:pn on septe: ber 1.
"o:.otaro
103. bungkok
Head or UoneraViffairs Dopt., ast sia  rine Tranaportation,Tokyo
wire received. ranch orficc (672 Thai Lin.ing Street, hibiyaro,
Bangkok) opened for burinoou on lst.
(No si nature)
104. Banok
couth ..... .., hionoso..i
Ti ned coods und any other sorts of : crotndise are rontly
in denand here.
Ch:
105. Tolyo
Miyutaka itu, . i o.ur
Are reocivet. Letter or Jal:  th received steuy. R raing
3.750 kiloras o? cartice ationcd in the previour ire,
fortunatcly it ir uvvila le in : tock. 'hipvin: prejxration are
boine ode hereby the codt recuircd vil be cent y the Ptrrt
available ship.
MMat
0519
106. Iagutati
Watosnio ar uke, snin srane, 01  n oud.n in
ccidcd to eali:t locally t: crtly. In ord  to arrango  ily
uffairo, I : ut sce ro n p m. en iho  mcdiately.
e o Toacci
107.010
hi ,. 71,
toolingo huve already becn cntrusted to lond o tian. alovee
vi'l bo cont lntor.
Latou
100. Tokyo
Direolor Mate (i) likn, . crnoo
(To s27) Sclden C mai,  icr of section is . chedule: to lc ve
For hle port y airplano ur und epte. ber soth. Inuce and Tode
retir Tro.. comy on cpte ter 1 snd ce te ber  re: cótively
Fo to settle tilr queatlon? certirioatco of treat cnt, ::1 ry.
duration of cojourn and otjcetives of retirn t t be srouht by
those w.o return to thrir port. icc  t ir rulution trlotly.
Oa
100. 1okyo

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.82)
(1) ullkpuca
daica 40c. Invciti, tion it i pra re. semass
(.:0 sin:ture)
110. Tiagtao
Goti, lead or victrict, Couka
4n moku. Koro Takahacli lcclt rs l tiono of concoription mve
boom renorted.It is provcd thnt roll cull t tatcn phce three
tines locally.
Con: l General of Teinetoo
111. Tr:ngtao
ef of lain opartnt ici, Kita
59. Recarding Ho.2, negotiations huve beon inforally wade vith
Conrulate at prcsont. It i: unvicipated thut ca itel ill be
Incre. .sac to Ycn 1.0.0,000 choctly. ply pormi:dcn. Yon 500,000
has boon puid at the firot tinc.
Yo:hita
112. Tokyo
Dircotor of Kavumata, Couthern It i ne Tennin Indus rial
Dovelopmont Co., .anado, Celebcs
Letter 44 reccived. Pro runs o.. indun trico of all pl ces received.
There i permission cf(blan:). Froper Pund Por Septa ber 1s
Yen 1,552,100; including rund c. o: estic matcria1: Yen 1,270,400;
wor ing capital Yen 2,114,450 (li ited to loca1 uce). Jroccduror
of iland canital aro bein: ar ed with Benk of Jaran.
(5 i.nature)
113. Bangrok (dated u u t 14; in lic)
Intororoixrouge, Jeneva
40/20 Intcrnoe 34, i. o, Cieleventn in tanv.le so rorly
..y 30.
114. sunikok (antcd  u t ; in soro)
wi Ninteln ici. i  17, ver
ot .racst e  rut l. ti .. br.ceo. ince  ri.
heve heard othin fr. ou ali. et. cll. seet rectincs to
ull.
1., :li
115.  o. ( . t 14; i.. Ge. )
chinesiu, ur
Oni . uchle, undcr (cover er) lth  ril,  turnee over
Yun 16,550.
(oi n ture)
11. Sn (in )
Hclohero Co., To..yo
o, your 8. Under prosont cireu. t.ccs o msic.r it cspccially
necuscury to handlo tic situ tion to cther i th criental fricnds
on c a.1 buuis an uld cuort intpcotor. uo. ou aroe? .lvcedy
ican ne oti tionr. ...
FOrour
117. Tolyo (in ngl1c)
Yo. aa pooic n..,u.ok
4l3s. ice Crolla, cre It.li Le tiou, Yen .Cl.s, order
incu Itali. Rrcsoin.
0:in
118. Karlotud (in ir)
rofe cor  ortz, ree ro l, n co
Laby, ilcron an rectia. lcl.  clr leving for
r cntin one r. i try  touoh
1Prca
Beifra.o
120.00

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.87)
(  15; i li)
ts mait, Tokyo
elve frkr itcubirhihoj1, Yen 293,404.55, eesoums
Mi. hil.aki
Kisabishi, Tokyo
meame advise the weight and ar ount of 3 oa. or of vupouriser
am 5s cusen of arscnic ncid lico.
:iteubichi
121. Fortbayard
!itcui Russan, Canton
Hongkomg No. iso. The markets of the 2nd are as follovs:
Tung oil
800
Sekirci Brand
Blue nemp
Tobacoo loaf
4,300
Peanut oll
9,800
Juto
2,200
Cugar(rerined) 1,150
ris fut
7,800
Lug.r(native) 1,300
Slue boun
1,200
Green bcan
2,800
Bluck bean
2,900
Leito (bcan?) 1,860
Peanuts
2.700
Pig
5,800
clotr.(.i te cot.) 11,500
Cotton turead
No. 20
325,000
itcui ussan
122. Bungkok (datod u urt 15)
:itoui Perso.iel ffuirs Dopartient, Tokyo
Your wire of the llth huo come o hand. e 1ro ain vur o.57
of Brd: "our starf c b ro und t cir f iliec ero ull  fc. rom
end of July up to now thc staff .c bero still s.rving here are
as folloio: accoci tcd . taff cibe s ule, l; fauule 1; foreion
usxooiated rembero ..1c 49, ra sic 4; Jepunesc c. ployec alc 1;
fored n cnployee:.lo 47, ic o. in lu ber ill thure are
forain associatod ctuff  bers.le , fale 2; c. oyees,
cale, wo are on ontily buric. 7; ti c  cd st  aib.re uro
65. In " adyui ofrice thoro aro fo cin a. sociated stufr . c b rs
o 4 Jso cs    o ein aployete 7.
cmsle 3.
Iteui munen snief
125. Tokyo
Dova Tice In ur nce, Seigon
vour vire or coptonber a her core t mand. e si ull c. tublish
the branein ar coon ut ts prprovel of thc uthariti os is obtained.
-lo. c u ply for re itr u n  ct nt we sont o cn roh t.
If thero are o Ja ucce c pctost utiori tico n uai on to soocnt
tho re ictr tio, it i: ot n.cc:  ry to do so. 1 e re ly after
Iaver ti ation.
Gencral. "foire Dop. rt.ont
124. 050
Kuto gucsn, ion
.  of  J vn .   n to to t rent
put:tion. ter Ii idu, the nect ionni aio. ctume ts Tolye
Yu azui:i, the au. t iotrutive o ficer, will br n tho rurt  nd
return uhortly.  c h..vo lr uty ..od .c.. for .si. tir.co.
pl.se contect. Thc 3c. for .tu. it cc...itioul upon lettle..ont
of your ains c: tlo. . i. ur tt lo arrivod.  
rcttle it. If the sous of Toiktur ui have ot cen cent, lou
cffoot un i urance or i tres ,000 u uinct uirr 1d.
Kato.c.... oditico
135. Talhoru
Kiwmoto, 
de chall chis crderly tho i it:tion per and otier: to uni on.
 chall draw ca ou ithout 3/i. T  dll bo cont o you
seperately.  ure no: nootiutis or the poper :enu.c.cturins
ses. aiel..n.
Kiku oto
128. 4

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.84)
wikok
t  re oi  or to be   your
with the Trade :anagc. ont : och,tion for puro se of then. Io
 are any Inconvonicnoo for you to cencel tho.? Meute reply.
Okure
187. Toxyo
Michimen, Saicon
ire No. 10. ee your vire o. 20. Jeppor fre. iohimcn (Jupan
Cotton) is not  own in the ivoice of office. Office ave
in: truotiont thut thcy vantcd to nic puro:. ce ino uding peppor.
idun (Trade :an ga ent ssooi: tion) raid that they would cnncel
contract unloss you do vuriness  ith (blan:). Ploaco ne otiate
with idan.
Hio i ji tou
128. Hang:ok (datod  ugust 15)
taka, vairen
1.500 bales of tulukunko (T: Tur aricd poudur -?) ioh vere
shipped in pril laet yoar have not crrived yet. ungcok chi ing
Co. saye coodr uro ot' il  u in for chip t Chan hai. c tave
alroady paid bill on goocr. On be: is of regul tions of vill manero-
ment, ph uso roturn puy cnt after ne oti tlon vith han hai agont
for disposal of soode. lcasc rc: ly.
Ateka
129. Ban tok (dated Au ut 15)
Atate, Tulloku
The it for soG bulco of ul Pro uito  ioh wus thi ncd in
Junwary s not yot urrived. re ou sure t it yo sent it 
Bangkok Fo:t ofricc:  lcace invcsti  te und reply
180. 
itsui, Lai on
Ho. 79. e cipped t c co cf rts fer icele, lc o. 10
it: ui sussan
131. Tokyo
Sast ris rinc Pruneportutio, i 
Roccived. e arecd to t c  ale ef cur stock cos1 to Hcinen
sipouildine Industry s felle: e tons of ixcd minen picce
coul und uren p dr co., u pricc Yen jon.l; uc tont of
Rynse. picce coal, mit pice Ton lou.Ce; totulline Sc tons.
.st  i. rinc Truasportstion
152. Saicon (in : 1)
appolola, volyo
Your t y, ir i bone necdlco u ip uni..t: pospible.
:cller
133. Luion
:ntcic.i, sooul
Cou yo r  iro o. 41. lence crfur intcot pa. cor if you in ve
collcotedco ..
Letaicli
134. Saicon
annger itoui, ciho
dovern ent preci jict in cle , Vot, is tr velin st ion
to ias peet f root nd lt br. .c : ve uced hi to  co end
perromr wio i ve experlonoc in li ber to ut. o ill retirn roon.
fleuse comtaet hir: and :'ro frors to di:pto. citoblc  rocn:
(for forett indu try ine liu bor ill).
ru.ck. :n cr
1.1.00

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.89)
 Mecioes, Tokye
wer. it is very dirficult to obsain the pcmission fer
(blank blank) there ray be nhunoes. s we don't know all pasts
of the plame, we cannot take conorcte reasures. We chall reply
in dotall after readinc your lettor.
Great outh Co.
136. Canton
Fanko, mangkok
Registratlon or cale address Daikenoan (TR: Great Construetion
Indestry) for csracos in both Japenece and uropcan lanzuages
hat been complcted.
Duiken
137. Canton (dated August 30; in Frcnon)
La roroau, 4 Hue Coloubert, saigon
Bank hcre asks me to send you fo:lowing cable: "Coe Yokohans
Specie Jank conceraing procecure for obtaining permit, explein-
ing covernment charge.  request to cover produot, vale, ovmer-
ship, andeman (?). Perconally I do not cxpect any succesa, but
plese have Daud ansver. (No sinaturo)
138. Bangkok (dated ugust 15; in German)
Brover Reoceroh, Berlin
Research (rechecks) of irs. Dr. Gehr confirm that results of
expcrimento of lust ycer  till sgrce both in regurd to parsive
trancrission es we 1 us to calling forti thc form tion of cc-
tive antiSodies e in. t "hanso ti on" in the c. o o. unirale
not fod vith "re onin". Ur entiy ncoded p rallel cleriric lion
of delutls, erpcciuily of t  r pcutical cvaluatioyin large
exp. rionts co  encing.  e ccn uiting cor wo onths in
vein t e sne er on ree ure m (r orins- ?).
lituecth Gchr
C.1944
139. Cinonoroki
Huyerikami, 157  ouraido strcct, Caigon
Mis :ajesty the mperor'a rencrint roleyed vie locl pd:inistre-
tive o'ricials rai : urins ti is ccimve uture or war, all peorle
u.t ccvote thericelves to oroation une iavcntivone.r and rtron?-
tien production.
Houd of wf:  cistion
140. Mihonbuoi
weniohi mncko, mucul, Ranoon
Reccived. ttero r ardin rcdicine and yeast not cd. ricuse
ronly imcedi tely. -l. c advi:o uc i : cdi tely loane  .cntioned
in the previout irc.
Yolota
141. Baniox
Sinyu, Cunton
Rocolved letters rc ar.inc Tientsin  cdicine. Re rdin.: 1cssu eo
Bent to your pl cc, an turo is no teleraphioul clay yctem.
can you decipher tio.? I cxnect to start journcy in the noar
future. Opon a lcttor of o edit oovcrin: W:c &cpo it on Yuhat-
ouko u medicine ir rarittoncc in not prtctical. Plo.ac rnke
:rartic prcparationt.
D:
148. Tokyc
Yoneiehi Furokox:n, Gotho, Run: on
Ir conmcction io tempomrily cut or, you vill circot ull the
Bremehes in Southern meri r nd otcr uffairo for thie offico.
thst cace you ay st tion ut tin cuitablc place necoruing
the rituation.
Hukayamn

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.87)
 Bakubo, o it uyo Mou, Chamgha
mth? lo éhanco here. Tuke oure of your memls
Jiro
deemeenao (?)
mtely. I am sohedulod to arrive around l4tt. Looking forword
for your help.
Iwuho atuo, Contral China Dovelopment Co.
145. Monking
mguchi, Personnel Hcsd, Tran portation & anae:ont Asa'n., Tokyo
mferring to ... of July 5 ... No. 91. s a result of soaring
af cormodity prices, livelihood oi c.ployees here has bccoce
increas ingly dirficult. They have asked for un advance of one
month's salary und have cach cigne the salary vouchcrs. Due to
the oritical situ tion, please  nt thoir request and roply
urgently.
Fukui
146. Kobe
Gosho, Saigon
lease advire the import permission niu ber of the 75 cases or
camphor for Saicon and 75 ou: es for unoi atod June 19.
Ha use
147. Osuka
Gosho, Suigon
75/03 Re our  ire of July 9. te the thoft inzurance, it wao
decided by the Insurancc control . cci tion und enforcod us
from septa ber 1. uetwecn Jupan, " anchukuo" an ngtun
leased ter i tory the co..ditien w ucriod is 5. Lotwocn north
and contral China, Ja, ". c. u.o" and ant in k sed
torritory the condition amproved  or Ye.. 1,coc or at t e ul-
torn:tive of 75. or t. c por itted .. ount. Ro ardin: couth C ina
and Prtin r cout rer, u roltce iil not ve iven. luuse
ucvi..e tie presi u, ste., to t.c . urance cs. aay ut your
pluco.
Go:o
146.
ust io rine Sraucort i 
     . () 1   t  .
Pic : e inc. tite  re .
149. - oy
ukoion
Yours hee Foun reecivet. If  e . not t tihe u nrt tamuine ron
. in, tie n : of our vare.ou o vll not bs av ilale.
T
150. Saicon
Daiyo uli.inen
If incurance aaree. ont on t o..  it not bt ins le, leace
ro ort to the u count'ne epart. cnt ad  lctser  eci tely.
151. Opaka
Sunco, ai on
Mo. lioo. Snouni Taico'c  ls ev cu tod to nstive country.
Ploato keop.contuot. Tho prinoo of tic no ana 1 s aro.
certlriuaier or aioto uro l. li lan cusc in silure.
That thall vve do?  ire repl.
Yun, un ronch
10120

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.84)
& ode. Movever, tre cirou itunoes are cifforent frn lmst
.  is ie not easy to ahip thon: to honcland, e h ve to
roperve them. krover, it ir curcd that daage wil: be done
 inoeeto, ant it it very 1. rioult to prcscrve the for a long
time. lense mako inguirien for : o...c moasurec wh: reby trede vail
be carried out b: j:ik. The tran uotion concitions are ma followm:
7.c.u. Sai.on, euch package contailing 90 kilos, packed in herin
ba, per no: iloton, 2oo Yen; the costo are to be sottlod at
Tokyo, and the bill is to be rawn on 'oocstuff: ucpurtient. .
Besider, plo se coneider the uttor oven if amo inconvenience
Biould be occasioned. Ploase ire re:ulta.
Branch Chief
153. Caio
Tokohwe pecie an., Toyo
1o.55696. The a ount of rice purc uscd tota1s Plu: tres 388,582.72,
(Yen 379,256.73) rcckoned fror. thc uate of 6th.
Kanai
154. Saion
Mitrui, Tainctao
Ho. lll.  Co tires w:ich huve been shipped out from your :ide
at return curgo for rubbcr h vo not reched here ....
155. Ca1on
Groet Couth Coupany, Tokyo
Xr. Icovenrima h s cbtaincd the : ccrti.icutc. Please nsk
lhim to proceed to hi: po:t i micdi toly. ny : s :r. Totruyo not
co.e herc to at su.e his po t? Joos he intend to  ive ur that post
by icobe ia the ordcr? eply i.ediely.
Grot ut:  py
150. Osaku
0..1
pleuno lct us ov tie a o nt yor Pin exuccte to have for
avertiso.crt uxvonrcs For t e :ccont half or t.e ye r berore
soth or tii. . .th.
157. Oru
:,
.76/0. rrax ots hve boen de fo te Lomra  of the
cou uto of eur ct ion contin l, or kon re'  roonl
orn ot:, Co of obe aner tunu' ctureu cous une so or obo
uti . e i.  r  tiutio. The   y
Trodiny uo. nt as cd the cualiried rirm to proront to iaverti a
t.on report cono tic t1 re ultu of port n te vels
tiar ith the ont.
GOLLO
150. Toy
00509. soc our o. o to  i o. e huve no pro poct of .atcrtal.
un t ci
.con
169. riin (in )
co  r.., on
t/t. Courirtion cur uitex llll cutstuating.
Liccler
100. Sa1-0n

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.88)
-19-
 we oucht to ake puant at present. de are
maile to zake phipaent to hccland. se are c.pelled to
 mhout them broaure it is di fiouit to prot erve goods
lowm: fan (TR: No. 3 - ?) f.o.b. Sai con ho.p b gs weiching
o ilco, at Yon z60 per net veicht ilo (.iloto?). o payment
we wion to draw bill on tnc foodstu'fe eprent, Tokyo. ....
Pleare concicier and ruply by vire.
Branch Lanager
101. Shimbasni (in erman)
sita, Bangkok
Identification No. 262. Ti:c Boexioican (Trade Tansccaent Associa-
tion) here are again  irin: tie ofrico there regarding a change
in the contract to the effoot tht, without paosing, it is ipossi-
ble. moide from arket price for double racks, ceanc ulso idemni-
rioation of corts for repncki.:g i.: uccorda.:ce wi t agrcemont there.
Sicnisol
162. calcon
Mitoui, Shanghai
Mo.456. e your No. 441. ne cigurcite ranu acturing va chine,
wo have contaoted. Hov is it? Reply
:itoui
103. Euigon
Kentai, Cauton
Pleaso iiediately toll u. tic deucription, c.i.f. Sai on unit
price and cuantity or coods sich u lesire to purohete. e
js u ine plan to raive ft. If jou mave ots in tock,
please dispo.c of then.
Kentai
104. Cobe
Kanetou, igon
See your viro of pril 2c. le. ee te.1 us t.e per. it wibec of
50 ca. ca of ce sror po. der vhion re shipped on June 17 und 1oc
canes oi ca.vior ai lots. If yos do  ot neet then, plc co ack
Saigon idan (Irade .ananent sociution) to  i I ou idun
by vire.
Ha.se
106.  k (datd st 18; i )
.rtin Haelur, oclctoin
In lat. eull., ental te ood.  u  tin ipnly
poscibility of r turning ho.:o cince pril 1943. No oro losters
rcooived. Hourtiost reetingo.
...artin
166. Lan kok (datcd u ust 16; in n lir.)
Politicue Intcrots, Sorno
s17, ritich, on rocucst of intorncc 37 infor.. Lely, cure
Lailuce rotors, 4 Cror u uare, :on. on: "Jcslic icd pesce-
fully, lith u ust, our co. tor acvcre be kdoun. veryting
poralblo done to : sve hin. otify idd, Dorotly".
Sie catisler
167. n kok (dated gust 16; in Gcrman)
Suse Fuhrnap, :elbook
Lost carmost cood wishos. hope you re nll well. Cince Chrirteas
wathont no m. A happy ti:o on tho lota. Thin o.tcn of the tt.oo
years o. deartient rectigu to all.
Loro, ..ilheln
18. ok

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.85)
20-
mmpkok (datod uust 16; in nglish)
tique Intureto, scrno
Ilth wugurt. Rcccived hospital trout.ent for ..ild attack of
paratyphoid early July. Relcut ed fron nospital 14 July. 6 ugurt
showed signs of dietr otion vith attucks of hy:toria. 7 vuguct
cato reportod to cap authoritic.. c  o ta:cn over by dootor
B ugust. Condition vorsening 9 ugust opccialisi cu:lcd fro.. Lonial
hospital. Putient adcqumtely i olatcd in ca:p un cr curo of dootor
and cap medical staff. 11 u ust pussed any peacerully 230.
Result of po:t ..orto.. follo:s. l nu ust burtod Protestant cee-
tery, Ban kok. Next of in ..ft. Cibson cere Wa: lace Brothers, 4
Crorby Scuare, London.
ficcenthalor
109. Banok (in nglich)
Thaicin, hanghai
clove price 1,000; purcnatcd w itc pepper 50 picult, 110.
Sinchan
170. Bangkok (in Gerras)
"elcorp, Sranghai
4680, your 80. Second ale (?) in proce: s of being vorked
up. nvver as coon as possiblo.
Rcl:ing
171. Sankok (in Geman)
Weice, Buku Mistrict, c2 Tuntt srect, Toleyo
mr ber of copics, first hal of  ust: 145, 153, 55, 01, 166,
49, 78, 70, 35, 42, 57, 30, 70, 00, 125, 124, 04, 24, 20, 53,
26, 31, 3, 13, 1, 83, 17. Tota.: 710, 744, 399.
0: terv.ld
172. ha Chai (in n lis)
Mgcons,  olon
Re it our debt cuickly. an h do lare l0,oco c ul
Swatov 7,Ooo olla s.
Thi To-long
17.   ( )
alcrn si
Moase vfre the Pollouing to Frantrurt: ncs i i c, ticol: 40.c;
soo kilos clip ur-black ("cehvcrelt cms re"), ticul: cde; leo ilce
atline e, ti u1s 10,1o; v70 L1os rcd, lioelr 00; 10
kilos . t (t ). i. i  
5539; i, I.G. doit 7;  cr1t 1047.
volas
174. k (in )
ehn.cyer, shanghai
4. your l0. veliv red l0. sor ue tiro so ns cc. ene i: appapently
cxlhaus tod.
(0 c1.n.ture)
RTC71944
175. Imporial lovel (Toyo)
Tetsukusa Takoi,  to", 
Roy dine the tran For of de or it Pro Hou Guincu branch of
Taion on: to vour enorcnt, n ptiotion: vill be .a de ith
local bani of Toi an.  losce cnt et unthoritics concerncd in
this rurpeot. Rerly.
170. Tokyo
itrubiri  cji. anjcr. acin
haiii (tai). dvise  vire your address ao c'l at t ut of
your lane. co une tho d ct of pro.its ane lorser of co. oi-
tior rel tivo to this deart.cnt.
. rovi: ionc n. Gene ral fairo
177. T

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.87)
hiei hoji, Singaraja
your brunohos and the vudget of prorits and lorscs of cor odi-
Wes relative to this doportient.
Provioions and Geeral rfairo
178. Osak
Wichinen, Rangoon
According to instruotions of inistry of Tinance "occived,
re.:ittance to fa:ily and liv'ng cxpenses from al) brenched
of Louthern Re ion: are li: itcd to Yen S00 per  onth per
capita. Ronittanco made at your place is ulio li.:ited to
Yen 500 per ca, ita fror: Sente. ber. Re:ittance to fum1: 1or
made by cur conipuny also .. These cxcccuing Yen 500 in the
past shall alto bo li. itod to Yon S:0 it out oxcention.
.ocounting Loction
179. Pukow (Miangu -rovincc)
ireotor of Tauano oc yurd, itui ocyard Co., Taano,
Okayasia Prefecture
Order for builcing of a au be: of sall-sized wodon vesscls
received. The order is rkcd "u ant". leare scnd irmediately
two vorkers of sogun-type one for : can and the oti.er for Nan:ing.
Reply whanghai iimodiutely ticir nucs, na tive place, adáress
and dste of birth.
into
180. Bang.ok
Hakiko Isobe, 2cl/1, Scto ayu trcct, etaaya District, Tokyo
ire recoive. liopin to be cvacuuted. I am voil. loasc tako
care of yourself. "irc ou ricr it is cocided.
(o .i.nature)
181. .
Yuri e u  c/o I , 7 c m oad, suno i trict, Too
Vegotiatione for petun  uhip :re in pro ress becunse air
rccrv tion 'or a ii a vi  c. ill retun to cai nai
torros For  .hort tinc.
I: cald
103. Itcutao
Teruei Yemmote, ortaru, lt. cren
Ho. ird ov r us oure of corni ation. uve yo.  ccived the
let cr ht is the ier uy o keply
(o Fi mature)
184. Tuinoku
Sundry Cood: Dcpartont, itruri:hi oi. Macapear
send hore so kilo rums or o c co or. mcaso connect ith
Co. on Hcalt. Cootio. cf aittrative sen rtrcat. Thit is a
pert of ur cenlings.
it: coirhi
185. So1 on
Director of ship.ent sepurtcnt or O.S....,Osaka
Send hcreby air..ail 50 or .ore copicu of ot or Improvomcnt
of uoden Ve. celc on page 7 of pril iclue of .arine Trans-
portution.
Yunuue
106. Haip ong
rt  La  rine Traneportation, Cauton
Ploaue trana it to follmi to on ou. see sur lctier of
July 17 leat yeer ud ur l er . 7 o ipo. rmito ired
suyins that llyer ure mu ht to be uc iv. rud to. ipan of ong-
so n () . If y r iye  re  rluce
dolivor t: to ipn.
act ri  rine Trunsportatien
107. s1:a (1n 1)
1c. 2408, ri
luace asoertain hethe, telcorue. fon: for heuu ofrice reache:
iicticl.

=== Page 557 === (confidence 0.87)
- 22-
Sa1on
roitonan, Canton
de the catter of Uhinese ncdicie, hut Ls becole of it? If
there is no shippins prospect at all, ve huve to cancol the
agree: ent with the local buyer. int is your opinion?
Chove Trading
189. Ocaka
Laoquer, lanoi
The title of the agent Kancai Grecn Grocery has been changed
into the Contral Japan Green Groccry Ex ort Acociation.
faito
190. 
'itsui, "anoi
No. 457. It was dolayed bccauso o. the 1 ack of packing aterials
for a part of 1,soo scts or jinricna rins. It is :aid that
they vill be bought by the .an e cnt cociution. owevor, in
view of spcciul circuxtonccs at vour pla ce, pleuso apply before
Septober 10. cvi:e the circu. stunces im.cdiately.
i ui juc can
191. Fortbuyard
itcui Bussan, loinow
See your letter of the Sth. The pricer for 16 cases of tobacoo
for Toihow troopt re too hi l.. Ticy usk you to invettigate the
following .atter and reply. If yeu . cke chipi ent o. 15 cases at
Hoitow mi: icary fixe price, ut is the invoice valuc or Icaf
tobaoco you orirc?
it ui usson
192. Fortbayurd
issui Bur san, Canton
Hon on o.ll. o.ane  te  the nd she the r ure us
ollo: on.o doll  3o. 4o; i tres . 1,c0.
i,900; ccr1 e:  re  ... 4, 50.
itcui Dussun
195. Caicon
iast sia Liccuer o., Toyo
Your wire or Sth hus beun reccive. .s t ro i: no cxtr.nuco
for there oods cucent in t Fer riee in the puctee rhip. ve
are din ou bert r  c.
Ssito
194. Cai.on
pruoujoi., Teio u
Ouing to the ub once o? lo dinr cocu ents for the  per s ipied
out b Takn: ire, clearance it vu't. ouce is i porsi le ig the
price is tco  ich. ease i cc te local Grest uth Co. p.ny
I. cdiately to ccrtiry t  t it i.  i t s  ade i prico if cuch
being th. e.c. Hcei os, tre s ip ent t our place ...
rm a
195. Sai:on
entai, .oy
Ploate pey attention to he v incte  rsoter cont ine in tho
cholotod lolter sicn i. not coun.cted vit: thoce unrtere con-
cerned. murin: the c i:ive  ta e of r  c call con'ront any
aiffiosltier i tho ffuirr to be. unu eo re cleycu. Plcuco
roply i.  cdiutely to tie tter . t oc. in our virc.
106. Snigon
Seoretury Tuture, st ..cia : rine Trant ortation vo., an hai
Youre eouive. o kilor cur of ru ar un corfee huve bee
deriuitoly o inp d out. Tihe rce iont on t is  it hir si no-
ture n the lettur of con: 1  ont  the ire o. py ent.
. iu rine Tra..portation co.
107. 1 on

=== Page 558 === (confidence 0.84)
197. Lai:on
Couthern Re ions rsociatio., Toyo
2/g. The rd tcrm atrioulation vus hclu at our Institute.
Cont uls, :litary and lavy lcadins orficers una ropresentatives
of various firme uttended the . cctin cnded in a reat succeso.
Latruo
198. Saigon
Iaruyei Cenba, Osaka
The losm for August is Yen 1,429, 653.
Senba
199. Suigon
Great south Company, Tokyo
Re our wire o. 22. hat has occx.e of the faily re.ittance
in rupce?
Great .outh cor.pany
230. Saigon
Kancmatru, obo
73/14. Re your order no. 45,  e 15, the e:timutod profits
urc: ai on, piastrcs 130,c00; ai, piastres 45,000, 1nvest ry
of merohsndise: Cai con, piastres Co0,0oc; lanoi, piastres
2:0,000.
Kanccateu
201. Ha
Yamato & Co pany, l3 Crovoct, Hanoi
Your Aro reCardine the  otorcar tires ane tubee cmanufacturing
enterprise receivod.  ft r  c.rcrully consicur the funds and
staff re.bera, we re rct e cairot ucrec to ubove plan.
(H ri n ture)
202. Tokyo
Icetasan, Hanoi
Flcuse sond lure uanti of love llo err  u n a cucible.
1to li0.i
205. 2oyo
  (b)
Your roport for septe.bw recciveu. le  or up ie   p lice-
ti   7   i  .  
the    (
ef1t ces)
Ju nc: c. e. i  s  ir  u nced.
Mac
204. Shun hui (in ni:)
inct, .n kok
Tupiocs  lo 44 picul doll rs uso.  rket cll. de dre to
ur cntly.
c.en 
205. Tore
Iwucakioal, ip.ong
to. 94. No your ire datd the coth. c corir c tie  en cilation
of the trueror cr ad ci tri
e d or "octcu and rluing
meonine for vore cationcd in the vire o: Tme .
iteni un
2oc. nk (in Genn)
eicra, n
los: o 1ro the  11o in: to  nkfurt: 209, 100,000 Grin
proo do For orfer 1s tr r e.
Douclus
:07. Dulat (1n Gerran)
Toutoniu, Chan hai
Pleage turn over i of "Fre. r" accont (?) to
.lohcr vo.,Ticati, t b:t cc.un c price b. ire.
.ul .ax cbor, Deli.c, ion
0

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.86)
mnoi (in Gerian)
Temesen, Shanghni
Your telegran 17th purt reccivcd. For information lbert. Tell
Arnold there to relcaco . onthly 1,000 noto (?) in case it 1s
proposed by Brigitte thcre. "e arc woll. Dest greetings.
Brunke
209. To:yo (in Italian)
:osca, Italdipl, anko
49/lst, your 5/7 received (?). xeit (?)  y 282 with (?)
Yen 1,625.20.
Princinini
210. bngok (dated  ust 18)
Oriental Cotton Co., Osaca
No. l04. Referring to your No. 4, oing to tho shortaje of funds,
tho tcrm for puy:ent had been cxtended. Ho ever, tihc pay: ent as
finally made on July 10. lc cc ccavey it to rospective familice.
Wo really vero very uch : urprised at Icurnin the death of
Hr. Yukiko and pray for tn repo: c of his  ul. Ple ase don't
worry too r.uch.
Fukni Tijiro, Oricntel Cotton Co.
211. Bangkok (dated uput I; in Gcrman)
Sciucttc Care : clcorp, Tekyo
Letter 9th July received.  pe ifts of love to purents in the
meantice prop ly scnt.  s un rcctins to ail frienas.
actjon
212. n. kok (in r:)
ullie, clcx rs, Trant occun, chun hai
ren baptinee the end; cli oc-ther  cnry, ooneary
od-fat'co uber. ll .
..vrkor
215. "aicon
to, out. soc.io, Tok
. 0s. Youe reecived.    1t  c re 1 disousriont
between the  b dey a the pan ror cigte ntien ne
ell at for urpont a potnt at i s been r te a rebr the
Head epricct :Fall  ve the pricrity or  o. cat. In conncc-
tion with allo nce a o  rence ili bo hel  on ur, the
usoy und sll fir. conccrac nortly.
214. Saigon
Cakoe sako, outh ssccis tion, Tyo
lave you reccived the .. c7 doo.cnts re rdin: te :ite
for Faruland? Soci:cs, the coouments re urdin the cdjucent
land of the Pur... wiil be sent in u feu cays.
Hun ku
215. Saion (ia Jer.n)
Helcllcrs Co., To. yo
oso, your .  fore t . eprt, pcii tter.
Terber
210. saicon
Tanaita .Fucan
We nood urjently .c  lou c.c.. of ric. cuttle liui, te. tlus.
gortiilu un cricu ursi ou; . ilor cuc.. or lover und
i          ()
pono. ito uote to pricou a :o us  l. . i tcly.
loa. e rw the i: t till.
m11

=== Page 560 === (confidence 0.94)
November 9, 1944
CONFIDENTIAL
The Seoretary of State presents his compliments
to the Direotor of Censorship and transmits the attaohed
1nformation in the hope that 1t will be of value.
Copy of Voluntary Report No. lo7 from the
Emelosure:
American Rabassy at Chungking, China dated
October 5, l944 re Japanese Commercial Messages
Interoepted at Chungking.
me com of the algned origtnal
PO:IM

=== Page 561 === (confidence 0.93)
rice of
1944
RESTRIOTED
Joctober 5, 1944
Dui ly Report
orei
odcast Intellience/Service
DIVISION OF SOUTHWEST
Oataber 4, 1944
PACIFIC AFFAIRS
OCT 1 11944
JAPAN
OFFICE OF FAR
EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENTOFSTciSVe ttlC Loo3.
ipul ci .asa Suetsugu
in an intervlew with a tihi reporter declared that
there will be "no fro.tal las! betwee. the two ain
naval rorces of apa" und rerica" but that "continuous
air battles will prol ui 1: ccide the war". accoraing
to the Al :rul the tattle for the ihilippines will be
"the greatest and most dec!sive battle" yet fou ht in
the Pacific und Japan ust tirow Its entire strengti
into it rather than erploy onl, "half strength in the
first battle and save te re u' in strength for the
next".
1..ILIFPL.ES
894.76
"No Conscription" hepeated. Sreakin: In Tagalos,
"President" Laurel ave a r  1o sreech in which he (1)
cate-orically declared that "for better or for worse he
had s.ouldered full responsitility of the Philinpine
9
Joverment", (2) declared "there 1s absolntely no
reason tor vision a  te ilipinos", and (6) re-
peated his assertion that "I cannot allow the rernant
0
of Filipino anlood to re eci ated on the battlefield
by disease or toke up arns to fi hit in this war ... Al-
544
though short of this the F lipinos ust renuer all pos-
sible aid to the Japanese Forces".
Tajiri xplains Por of urtial Law. On the return
m
to Tokyo of the Jupanese  Ihister Akiyoshi Le iri to
G
report on cond:tions in the Philippines he explained the
eaning of t e present artial luw in the islands. In
a Tokyo broadcast ne tells  ome audiences "the "artlal
law of tho Philippines differs copletely fron that of
Japan. If interpreted fro. the stanupoint of the Japa-
nese martial law statute, thc Philipnine martial law may
be interpreted as placing the ihilippines under our
Japanese m ilitary ad inistratton but this is an a bsolute
misunderstanding. Beyond doubt It Is a structure created
by the Filipinos to cooperate the Japanese forces."
DEC AGGIFIED
1
E.0. 11652. S 3  5(0) 1)
JA:Kullgren: JAD

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.95)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONS
OCT 1 0 1944
TO THE BECRETARY
EPEFS
D STAM P3
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
894.76/
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
00:1:1544
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
/10-1044
DECLASSIFIED
E 0,11652. Sec5)  5(0)or (E)
3y
tice
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
G. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
Enclosures
894.76
10-1044
71365

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
FILE28487
A
423
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
OBS
CALL
FREQ KC
18135
FREQ KC
NAT
TT
FREQ KC
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION: QRN MED QRM NIL
EMN
NAND KEYED, GOOD FIST, USED
INDICATORS:
AAA FOR DECIMAL POINT.
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
23 KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC (ETC.)
235 ( DOTS ) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMEPICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUP CALLA SIGN IS
PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 UD WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT IS
16.G METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN
HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE
TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS
BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO AN
INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO
EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET
STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE
THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP
LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING
STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END BT BT BT BT KAIA KAIA
( )
s
KAIA TU DE BDE PMC PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW TMW 113 UD TMW TMW 1130
1
2
243
TKS TKS VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA VA
3
10
3
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 564 === (confidence 0.97)
DO
NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FILE
20487
FREQ KC
CALL
TA ANA, CALIF
566BS
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
35
NAT
ORKS:
BLIND TO KAIA FREOKC
TT
CALL
CMT
EMAFOE
375
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
IMN
INDICATORS:
QRN MODERATE QRM MODERATE
BY
HAND KEYING USED AAA FOR
INDEXED BY
REGIMAL.
0233
KAIA KAIA DE PMC KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC ETC
GM C EEEEFEEEFFFEEEFFEEFFF KAIA KAIA CALLING THE
0234
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO AMFRICA THIS IS
DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN
HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION IMI DJAKARTA RADIO STATIO
STOP OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18,135 KILOCYCLES
THAT 1S 16,60 METERES IMI 16:60 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMM
TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME
STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO
YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM
YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO
EVERY BODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND HICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWIS
GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE
( )
YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY
s
1
2
WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
THEM END END BT BT KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW TMW 1130
6
7
IMI
0244
MI TMW 1130 TK8 TKS VA VA VA
9
10
TO UNIT:
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY

=== Page 565 === (confidence 0.96)
A Blt
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASH!NGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE BECRETARY
OCT 11 1944
2CPE
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
1544
CONFIDENTIAL
894.76/1
File 20487
DECLA
10y
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
44
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Sterling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
89476/10-1144
Enclosures
71365

=== Page 566 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
SPP
UNIT
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
SNSANTA ANA CALIF
CALL
FREQ
E06T 5 440BS 423 FILE 21487
CALL WORKED
FREQ
PFREQ18135
CALL
NAT
CALL WORKED BLIND TO A
5T
EMNFADE3/RSTWPM3
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION QRN NEAVW
EMN
QRN WIL MAND KEYED
INDICATORS
FAIR FIST
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
23 VVVVVV DE PMC PMC PMC PC V VVV DE PMC PMC PMC PMC PMCPMC
KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC PMC ( ETC)
ZS EEEEEE VE KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF BJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SION IS PC
WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 16.6 METRES STOP OUR PROGRANE
TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE
NEXT ONE HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTIN TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT
NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS UD AIR EEE
EEEEEEEEEE ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INF
YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN
YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING
FLASH IS SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVES THE NEWS WHICH WILL
BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN
PROGRANES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
24 THEM BT BT KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC TIN TIN 113 TOKYO TIME TKS VA VA
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.94)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE BECRETARY
OCT 1 3 1944
tERFe
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAII
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
MR.
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
894.76/10-1244
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
1.1
and Chief,
G
Radio Intelligence Division
1
Enclosures
894.74/10.1244
71365

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
CEPT#T4
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
CATION SANTA ANA CALIF
CALL
FREQ
DAT 0T 7 44 0BS 483FILE 26487
CALL WORKED
FREQ
CALL
FREO181
NAT
CALLWORKED ID AIEQ
TT
EMN
A-2
FAE
25335
WPM15
GMT
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
HAND 15 WPM
EMN
POOR SENDING USED AAA
INDICATORS
FOR PERIOD,DEC. PT.
BY
QRN BAD, QAM NIL.
INDEXED BY
ANAI.YST
GMT
23 KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC ( ETC.
234 ( DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING TNE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF UD AMERICAN HOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP
OUR CALLSIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLES THAT 1S 18.6
METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HOURS
PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP I E UD UD WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE
HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING UD UD WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING
TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATI-
ONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT 13 TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS
THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY
AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THES WARNING FLASH 1S
SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE
BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY UD TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE
AMERIGAN PROGRANMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL
S
1
PROFIT BY THEN END END Y V Y BT BT BT AA KAIA KAIA KAIA XDE PB
2
242 PMC PNB AR TIN TI TOM 113 UD TIN 113 TKS TKS VA VA VA VA
10
3
CONTINUE - CLOGE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.93)
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADORESS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE BECRETARY
SZEC
OCT 1 61944
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
0C1 231944
CONFIDENTIAL
File 20487
DECLACCIFLED
77
10
FlCAR
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
094.76/10-1644
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewith further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Steeling
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
Radio Intelligence Division
r11
G
Enclosures
71365

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
FREQ KC
FiLE 20487
CALL
WORKS:
FREQ KC
CALL
NAT
PMCKC
TI
LIND TO KAEOKC
GMT
A-2
EMN
FADE
EMN
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION:
MAND POOR
INDICATORS:
QRM NIL QRN BEVERE
BY:
ANALYST:
GMT:
231 KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC ( ETC.)
234 ( DOTS ) KAIA KAIA VE VE CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA STOP HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING
THE UNITED STATES IN THE AMERICAN HOUR OF LJAKARTA RADIO
STATION STOP OUR CALLSIGN IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLE
THAT IS 16.60 METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMMF TO AMERICA BEGINS
AT EIGHTEEN MOURS PACIFIC WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE
HOUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS
AND REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR
ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST
AND IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU
CANNOT OTHER ISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU
TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST
BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMME
( )
OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY
s
1
THEM AR AR BT KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC TMW 1130 UD 1130
2
3
241 TOKYO TIME AR VA VA
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
TO UNIT:

=== Page 571 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT WRITE
IN THIS SPACE
UNIT 
FILE
ACTION TAKEN
ANACALIF.
CALL
FREQ
417FILE 28487
OBS
CALL WORKED
FREQ
18135
FREQ
NAT
WORKED KALAFREO (BLIND)
TT
GMT
FADERST23WPM17
BIGNAL DESCRIPTION
EMN
INDICATORS
GOOD HAND KEYING.
BY
QRN BAD. NO QRM.
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
231 KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC XAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC (ETC)
234 (DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP HELLO
AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES IN THE
AMERICAN HOUR OF THE DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALLSIGN
IS PMC WAVELENGTH 18R135 KILCCYCLES THAT 1S 16R60 METRES STOP
OUR PGRAME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT EIGHTEEN HCURS PACIFIC WAR TIME
STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HUUR WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY
IMPORTANT NEWS AND REVELATICNS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF
INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE TO EVEPYBCDY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH
YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO YOU
TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS W ICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY
WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTE TO THE AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE
DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU WILL PROFIT BY THEM END END
244 BT BT BT BT KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PMC AR TMW 11R3 TKS VA VA
S
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
3
CONTINUE - CLOSE - BEARINGS ( ) PRIORITY - INTERCEPTS ( ) PRIORITY
TO UNIT:

=== Page 572 === (confidence 0.94)
A BIL
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
ADDRESS ALL COMMUNICATIONE
TO THE SECRETARY
SH
OCT 1 7 1944
STATE
VIA REGISTERED REGULAR MAIL
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED
0C1231944
CONFIDENTIAL
DIVISION OF
MR
File 20487
小
bee
894.76/10-1744
Honorable Adolph A. Berle, Jr.
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Berle:
In accordance with your request, there are
enclosed herewitn further intercepts of DJAKARTA RADIO.
Very truly yours,
J. E. Sterling
m:
G
G. E. Sterling
Assistant Chief Engineer
and Chief,
OCT 23 1944
Radio Intelligence Division
FILED
Enclosures
894.76
10-1744
71365

=== Page 573 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT WRITE IN THIS SPACE
ACTION TAKEN
FILE
SANTA ANA CALIF
.1445423
FILE4T
CALL
FREQ
CALL WORKED
FREQ
FREQ
10135
NAT
CALDAIA
FREQ
TT
EMN
A-2
FADE
2うT
338
WPM
GMI
SIGNAL DESCRIPTION
MAND FAIR
EMN
QRN SEVERE QRN NIL
INDICATORS
SENDG AAA FOR.
BY
INDEXED BY
GMT
ANALYST
232 ( CODE AND MUSIC MIXED UNREADABLE) KAIA DE PMC PMC ( ETC.)
 ( DOTS ) VE KAIA XAIA CALLING THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA STOP
MELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTA DJAWA CALLING THE UNITED STATES
IN THE AMERICAN MOUR OF DJAKARTA RADIO STATION STOP UD DJAKARTA
RADIO STATION STOP OUR CALL SIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 18.135 KILOCYCLE8
THAT 18 18.G METRES STOP OUR PROGRAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT
EIGHTEEN MOURS PACIFIC TIME WAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR
WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING TO YOU VITALLY IMPORTANT NEWS AND
REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STOP OUR ONLY OBJECT
IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND IMPORTANCE
TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU CANNOT OTHERWISE GET
STOP THIS WARNING FLASH 1S SENT TO YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE
NEWS WHICH WILL BE BROADCAST BY WIRELESS TELEPHONY STOP LISTEN TO
THE AMERICAN PROGRANMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION YOU
( )
WILL PROFIT BY THEN BT BT  TKS KAIA KAIA KAIA DE PMC PMC PG
T TI 113 UD 113 TOKYO TIME AR VA VA VA VA
2
3
6
10
3
TO UNIT:

=== Page 574 === (confidence 0.96)
DO
NOT WRITE
IN
THIS SPACE
FILE
ACTION TAKEN:
14FILE
22487
AANA, CALIF.
417
CALL
FREQ KC
WORKS:
CALL
FREQ KC
FRE6AL35
NAT
WORKS
D)
CALKAHA
TT
445
18
GMT
EMN
FADE
RST
WPM
SIGNAL IESCRIPTION:
CMN
INDICATORS:
FAR HAND KEYING.
BY
INDEXED BY
ANALYST
GMT:
0833
KAIA KAIA KAIA DE DMC PMC OMC (ETC)
1234
(DOTS) KAIA KAIA CALLINO THE UNITFD STATES OF AMERICA STOP
HELLO AMERICA THIS IS DJAKARTI DJAFA ALLING THF UNITED
STATES IN THE AMERICIN HOUR OF THE DJAKARTA RADIC STATION
STOP OUR CALL SIGN 1S PMC WAVELENGTH 1135 KILOCYCLIS
THAT IS 166O MFTRES STOP UP PROGHAMME TO AMERICA BEGINS AT
EIGHTEEN HOURS PACIFIC GAR TIME STOP IN THE NEXT ONE HOUR
WE SHALL BE TRANSMITTING T
YOU VITALLY IMPOHTANT NENS AND
REVELATIONS BEARING ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS STIP OUR ONLY
OBJFCT IS TO INFORM YOU OF EVENTS THAT ARE OF INTEREST AND
IMPORTANCE TO EVERYBODY IN YOUR COUNTRY AND WHICH YOU
CAN OT OTHERWISE GET STOP THIS WARNING FLASH IS SENT TO
YOU TO PREPARE YOU TO RECEIVE THE NEWS WHICH ILL BE
BROADCAST BY IRELESS TELEPHONY ST P LISTEN TO THE
AMERICAN PROGRAMMES OF THE DJAKARTA BROADCASTING STATION
024
10
TO UNIT:
