894.50 Japan, Economic Matters., September 21, 1945 - November 24, 1948 (File 1677), part 2 of 2
ID: 894.50-1677-2   Pages: 533   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.50-japan-economic-matters-16/894.50%20Japan%2C%20Economic%20Matters.%2C%20September%2021%2C%201945%20-%20November%2024%2C%201948%201677-part-2
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Average Monthly
Increase Over
Industry Group
Regular Mage
October 1946
October 1947
Average
All manufacturing
￥2302
3.4 times
Metals
2486
3.3
Machinery
2292
3.3
Chemicals
2295
3.5
Ceramics
2662
3.8
Textiles
1649
3.0
Jood products
1778
3.2
Food
2438
4.4
Miscellancous
1711
3.5
Coal mining (underground
3515
4.7
workers)
Metal mining (underground
2407
4.0
workers)
During the past year, increases have been fairly uniform among the
various industrial groups. Thc grcatest increase has been registered
by underground coal miners. The smallest increases (not shown however
in the above table) have been obtained by Government workers; and cur-
rently their demands for wage increases are creating serious problems
for Government authorities.
Regular wage payments in Japan are commonly augmented by special
bonuses, allomances, and payments in kind :hich amount to perhaps
15 or 20 per ccnt of gross wagcs. In October 1947, for cxample, averago
monthly regular wagus in manufacturing industries were ¥2302, and average
total wages were ¥2564. Because of such special payments and extra-
monotary income received by many workers in Japan, it is extremely
difficult to measuro the actual lcvel of wage income in tru monctary
cquivalents.
Producer Prices
.In December 1947, the index of official wholesalc prices reached
an al1-time peak of approximately 50 times the level provailing in 1937
and approxinntely 28 times the level attcined immediately before the end
of the war. Official wholesalc prices incrcascd most sharply in the
last half of 1945 end the carly part of 1946. Thereafter, the index rose
fairly uniformly at a rate of approximately 10 per cent per month until
July 1947. In July and August, the cntire framework of official prices
was reviscd upw:rd, and in September the index was twice as high as in
28
RESTRICTED

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
June. Subsequently the index advanacd at a ratc again approximating 10
per cent per month.
Postwar conditions havc so altered normal operations that the cost
pattern in the economy is cxtremcly distorted. Official pricos conse-
quently reflect this distortion so that prices of some commodities have
risen much more than others. The iron and steel industry affords an
example whereby the current low level of production has resulted in in-
efficient operation and relatively high unit costs. Vith the expectation
that ultimatcly these inefficiencies will be overcome, a Government
subsidy to cover the abnormal costs of such inefficiencies is being
extended to the iron and steel industry. Such type of subsidy not only
reduccs the general price level somewhat below the figure which would
othervisc prevail, but it also reduces the abnormalitics in the cost
pattcrns of industrics which use iron and steel materials and thereby
minimizes the rationalization which thc economy must face latcr when it
is opened to cffective contact with world prices.
Additional factors contributing to the abnormally high current costs
in many industries is the widesprcad practicc of carrying excessive overhead
such as the maintenance of presently non-operating units and the pre-
scrvation of full-size labor forces, and the reluctance of the Government
to concentratc th: limited supply of raw materials and fuel into a limited
number of favorably located plants.
Because costs in some industrics have risen very much less than the
average increase, official prices for thcir products have lagged behind
the general movement. Such products include clectric power charges and
railroad freight ratcs. Both gencration of clcctric power and railroad
traffic have bccn at high levels of operation.
From month to.month, the principal increase in costs basically
results from the substantial incrcascs in money wage rates. It is of
significancc to notc that price ceilings upon the products of an industry
have had little retarding influence upon agreements by industrialists to
pay higher wages. Although some concerns are operating over considerable
periods at a deficit, many arc making a sufficient volune of sales in the
blackmarket to cover morc than adcquately all operating costs. Further-
more rising costs have been forcing upward adjustments of price ccilings
from time to time. In spite of the pressures cxerted by pricc ceilings
upon industrial concerns, there has becn little movement toward the
rationalization of operations and consequcntly of costs.
Inflationary Outlook in 1948
Inasmuch as only a limitcd degree of improvement in the supply of
food and other consumer goods for the domestic economy is probable in
1948, the inflationary pressures will continue.
29
RESTRICTED

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTFICTED
With regard to food, which is of fundmental significance to the
stabilization problem, the prospects for maintaining the delivery of the
staple .food ration throughout the year are better than at this time in
1947. Some reduction in the maldistribution of non-staple foods appears
to be in process of achievement. With regard to consuner goods other
than food, however, the prospects for improvement in supply are limited
by urgent requirements to expand export trade.
The rate of inflation is also contingent in large part upon the
degrcc of success whicn can be achieved in the collection of all direct
personal taxes,. but particularly thc incone taxes from the self-assessment
group. This vould more nearly permit a balance between the Government's
revenues and expenditures, reducc the necessity of expanding the currency
issuc, and siphon off much of thc inflationary purchasing power. This
problcn is ore fully treated in the following scction.
If morc goods can be channcled into official markets, and if inflation-
ary purchasing power can bc siphoned off by a successful tax program, a
more favorable cnvirornent should develop for the stabilization of wage
ratcs. Greatcr stability of wage rates would mitigate'one of the major
prcssures against the levels of producer and of wholesale prices. On the
other hand failure to achieve these goals'will render impossible the
achievement of pricc and general cconomic stabilization during the
current year.
:30
RESTRICTED

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.96)
RESTICTED
GOVERI E T FINACTS D FISCAL POLICY
Highlights
During the past ear the principal development and major issue in
Japanese Govern wnt finances has been the sericus failure, amcunting to a
virtual breakdo:m, of the revenue system. The single item cost inportant
in this picture is the dismal record of ccilections thrcugh December of
the personal incc.ne tax for the incc.ce grcups subject to self-assessment.
Hot only have ccliections of incone tax, and of ail taxes, lasged seriously
behind bud et oals, the goais therselves have b en set at levels far belor
those consistent with levels o1 national income in fiscal 1y47-48 and the
taxpaying cupacit, of the econcny. s this is written the Japanese
Govern ent, under direct pressure fron SCkP and with Eighth Aray military
governient tea.s ccoperat ing, is ating an all-out drive to ccllect all or
cost of tne uccunulted deficieney in budgct tax gcais by the end of the
fiscal uar.
Over this fiscal car the size of the Japanese Governent budget and
the actual ad inistration of the public finances as a mcie have played
a kej role in the infltionary situution. The Governient, us & major
clainnt for ny types of gcods and services, added to the demand and
price pressures in the market. It was an iaportant creator and distributor
of active purchasing power especially through payment cf wages and salaries
Recent caphasis pl.ced on the ttainnent of & baianced budget, ccuplod with
the uctual uniinolinced thereof in the face of the revenue coliections
record to d..te, mkes it necessary to reviow the fiscal situation and
reapprcise the actual relationship of governnent budget operations to
infintion and ccononic developnents generally.
Summary of Budget Situation
at the beginning of 1948 the goneral acccunt budget for the fiscal
yoar 1947-48 stccd at 213 billion yen. This figure, more than double the
criginal budget estinats, is the result of 13 supplonentary budgcts.
Beforo the ond of the fiscal car necossary axpenditures are expocted to
rise perhaps ancther l0 or 1l billion yen. Eliminating duplications and
transfers, the expenditures of the speci&l acccunts in the national budgot
stand at nearly 220 billion en sc that the ccnsclidated cutlays in genoral
and spocial acccunts asgregutc over 430 billion yon. Sporadic efforts have
31
RESTRICTED

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
FESTRICTED.
been made, with cniy smail success, to cut cut unessentiai expenditures.
Actually, however, astcad: and rapid increase in gcvernment expenditures
overall has been dictated bcth by an incrcase in the scope of necessary
activities and b the rising costs ci the gcods and services bought, owing
to the infiationar, situation. Inscfar as gcvernnent prccurement has
invcived large pa ments at above oificial prices not only the budget pro-
blen but alsc tic task c1 controlling the blacisnarket have been aggravated.
4t the sa..e time, despite a rapid rise in the levels of naticnal income
over tic car and basic reforns in the Japanese income tax law, actual
revenue ccliections have la ed seriously behind budget goals. As of tho
und of December tetal ta: collccticns of 46 billion yen represented only
& tr.ird of tnc budget target.
In the autuin of 1547 the Japanese Gevernnent undertock to attain a
balanced bud-ct in fiscai 1y47-4e. In consequence. the budgct expenditures
and revenues vere revie ed and a ccmplete balance in the general acccunt
and in tn. special acccunts vas sho'm. It is apparent that there is now
iitsie nope cf attainint a baianced bud get this ycar, even apart from the
adiitional supplementary budget now being considered. iny estimates
of the probabic size of the finai dificit are tentative at the present
time crin, to tie uncertainties of revenue ccilections in the remaining
three or four  ontns of tae fiscai ear and the prcsent large volume of
deferred cxpenditures hich viil invoive a rush cf cnd-cf-the-year payments.
Gver the ear t us far the Gevernent nas had to meet its large current
cash delicits b resort to further bank note issue, since the fictation of
bonds or direct borroving from the public is of limited possibility in an
infiationary pericd. The condition of the government fisc has therefore
played a major role ir. the incruase cf the tctal note issue from 95 billion
Jen in Januars 1 47 to about 210-220 bi ion yen at tne present time.
à reviow of tn. content and cperati n of the Japanese budget both on
tn. exp nditures and revenue side is undurtaken beiow. Ic is useful not
oniy in judging recent duvelopaents but aisc in gauging the rolc wnich
proper fiscal polic. snouid piay over the coming year in the stabilization
picture.
Budget Expenditures
The table below shows the major sluments of the general and special
account budgcts as revised tc the start cf 1948. The siggest category of
the generai acccunt budget or 213 biilicn en is cccupation ccsts anounting
to an estirated 64 billion yen or 30.2 per cent. Direct price subsidics,
paid cut to pr-vent incrcasus in prices and the cost of living, acccunt for
26 biilion en or i<.4 percent cf goneral account expenditures. Ctier
large items are the expenditures for pubiic vorks, transfers to iceal
governments, and a capital contributicn not et made to the Resonst:u tion
Finance Bank.
RESTRICTED
.32

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
▲ lerge but undeterninable part of governcent cutlays reprosents
purchase cf currently prcduced gccds and services, and thus contributes
dircctly to prcbloms of inflationary pressures in many markets confrontod
with acute sup ly shortagcs. For exanple, requircments of occupation
prcjects absorb cver 50 per cont of thc evailab1. amcunt of coment, about
15 percent of the ccal, and significant fractions of the total current
supplies of lurber, cther building supplics, and rail transportation. It
is realized that a largc part of costs incurred for occupaticn projects
may in fact invclve payments at above official prices. In Septenbor 1947,
SCaPi 1775 directed tiat the Japanesc Government, in cxccuting contracts
for such prcjects, absolutely rcfuse to prccure any supplics or sorvicos
in the blaciuariet cr at more than cffieiai prices. This policy was
strcngi re ffirmed as of 13 January 1948. At the same tino the Occupation
Forces are ing every offcrt to reduce the scope and burden of occupation
costs to tre minimum.
The Budget fer Fiscai 1947-48
(As ci 1 J.nuary 1948)
Expenditures
Revenues
ount
amount
It...i
(+ bii.)
Itcm
(¥bil.)
Lenerel acccunt
Total expenditures
212.9
Total r-venucs
212.9
Cecupation costs
64.3
Subsidies(pricus)
26.4
Total taxes & st..mp receipts 134.1
Industry & cconcmy
24.1
Personal inccns tex
68.5
Public vorks
14.7
All other texes &
Locar govt. finance
21.1
stamp receipts
65.6
Government. investaents
11.1
All other
51.2
Non-tax receipts
78.8
Tobacco monop. profits
51.3
Cther non-tax receipts
27.5
Special Acccunts
Total gross expenditures
400.7
Total grcss receipts
448.6
Less actual & expected
Less transfers from
transfers to Gon. Acct. 90.7
Gen. ct.
139.8
Loss transfor to sinking
Less transfor for sinking
fund for national
fund for naticnal debt.
90.8
debt redemption
90.8
Net specital acct. expend.
219.2
Net special acct. reccipts
218.0
Consolidated bud ut expend.
432.1
Consolidated budget rcceipts
430.9
(Guneral account and net
(General account plus net
spcial acccunt)
special acccunt)
33
RESTRICTED

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.94)
RESTRRTED
It is a present defect of the budget reporting sisten in Japan that
no clear picture can be cbtained of the tctai paaents of weges and
salaries made thrcugh the general and special acccunts. In any case the
naticnai governiunt is a jor contributor to the strcam of available
purcnasing pcwer and thus market denand pressures.
fforts have been ide and are bein continued to cut cut unessential
expenditures and effect operating eccnonies. The scope for such reductions
is severely liiited. The principei opportunity lics in cfiective implemon-
ttien of the SC.PD. just entioned. ajer reliance for inprovement of
the fiscal situation has necessarily been placed, however, cn ths increase
of revenues.
Gov-rnilunt novenues
The bud ut as it steed at the be innins of 194s called for a
barencing ef receipts vith expenditures beth for the general account and
the s: uciul acccunt. Tctal taxes of ail kinds were relied upon for 134
billion en or 63 percent of gon-rai ccccunt revenues of 213 billion.
rurscnal incc... tax alone is set at 67 billion jen, or just 50 per cont of
the toter taxes. ef t.e non-tex receipts in the generai acccunt the
iar st it... is the cxpected prcfit cn sale of tobacco products tctalling
51 birrion yor.
It is ney guite clear that neither tix ner nen-tax revonues will
att..in th. i veis ca led for in the r vised budget nd that a net deficit
for e Fiscai  r is in prespect. The deficieney on tre tax receipts
side signifies  virtual brekdom particulcrly of the Japanese income tax
s.st..
At the ond cf Ducember, with thrse-fourths of th. fiscal year elapsed,
tctal tax collections vere approxia.tely 45.9 billion yen, cr a third of the
total budget rigure. s of that d.te only 32 por c nt of total personal
incc..s tax liabilitius hnd been collected hile for all ctner taxes com-
bined the ceilection pregress was soneimat better.
RESTRICTED
34

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
Budget Tax sti ates and Tax Collections to Date
Fisca1 1947-48
(In illions cf yen)
3udgct
DeficitCcllections
Estinte
Ccllecticns
to be
as  of
L.(as cr Dec.31)
Coilectcd iBudget Est.
Person..i Inocme Tax
68,500
21,625
46,675
32
Tithhciding
19,300
15,369
3,931
80
Self-assessaent
49,200
6,256
42,944
13
Increised Incomo Tax
2,000
4.329
4,601
49
Corporct.
Income Tax
6,300
2,534
3.766
40
So.scdit xcise. &
isc. Tuxus
50.272
17,301
32,971
34
Comicdity
7,845
3,669
4,156
47
Liquer
23,870
7,755
.16,115
32
A ission
6,518
2,563
3,955
39
Con.rs
12,039
3,294
6,745
27
Tot.r Taxes
134,072
45,59
£8,213
34
So far as non-tax reccipts are concerned the picture is cxccedingly
cbscur in vis. of the f.ct that nit profits cn the sale cf monopoly
products--predominantiy tebacco--are not calculated and reported currently.
It is not knoin in f.ct until the ciose cf the fiscal year vhat the actual
net. profits are. Tirougn December, hovever, the grcss recoipts from sales
b. the iono poiy Bureau agrugated oniy 3y por cent or the budget goal,
making attainnent of the target sonevhat unlikely. As of 30 November loss
than four biilion yen had bucn collected through cther miscellancous non-
tax riccipts a ainst the budget estimate of nearly 23 billion yon so that
here too the prospects for reaching th. goal appear dim. In part tho low
luvel of reportud revenucs mey be due tc a lag of receipts by the government
behind actuul cciluctions in th- ficid. In part, however, it is duo to
disappointingly low sales of goods and services, perhaps raflecting
consuner resistance to the inereased prices cf government monopoly products.
Personal Inccme Tax
a.though actual cciluctions are lagging for ail types of taxes and
att.inment of budgut ustintes appear unlikely for any, the situation
which has been most serious and calls for most drastic action is tho por-
senal incow tax. Several mjor peints need to bo emphasized.
35
RESTRICTED

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.88)
(i) it. tetal ceilections tircugh Deco. ber on1) 32 por cont of
the bud t stite, it is evident tie rachinery of assessisnt,
coileccien, and eniorcc..ent nes broren dowm.
(2)  rte i coil ctions fro. vus and salaries subject to
witnholdin, •i t at soarce is currentiy ahuad cf schedule so tht
the bud et stiate, ven vitn te recent revision uy rds owin to
v.nt  inereases, is lie to be surpusscd. In fact at
the und oi i947 the Finance . inistr, instructed ite re gional tax
ofiices to ai. lor an actual oal c. over 43 billion jen fron vith-
sidin, us co.pard vien s Sud t tart or 19 billion en
(3) Coilections fro: sroups subject to seif-assessment of incomo
tax--in siurp contrast-were eni i3 er cent at the end of December.
Tro. probabiy cannot autain the budyt estimate even ith the big spurt
in pets cpected in the ust quarter of t fiscal year, particu-
iari alter one required deciaration f actual incce by 31 January.
(4)  itilu. thoush the actual coilcctions are ccnpared vith the
bud pt tar uts, these tarest liabiliti's thenselves are far below
so leveis that shcuid hav. ben assessed co sistont vith usti ated
lev. is of nat ionai incei und the provisicns oi the income tax law.
Ta iny u. te last po int First, the baole beir brings out some
start in fucts. in cv rall t res the Finance ilistr. nas under-estinated
tare ve i natici ince.e pa m nts to the pubiic for riscal 1947-48 by
tro-uhirds ci tane cstimated and rosp-ccive totar of i217 billion en. In
the case ci  ns and salarics t ineome esti ate on licn the budget tax
fi ures vere calcumat.d is 45 por cont of the estiuated total for the yoar.
Th. nee inco ef bus uess propriators--the lar st single compenent of
te neienal incore-- as etimatel at cn. 25 per cent of a tetal figuro
for ths ear .icn is itscif considered conservative.
36
3.1CTF3

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.96)
RECTRICTED
Finance  inistry Estimates of Personal
Incom Taxes and incore Payments. 'Coppared
with Estimetes of Actual Income Payments
Fiscal 1947-48
(In billions of yen)
Finance Linistry
Fin.Min.
Estixtes
Fin.Min.
income
incomo
tax
Estimated
payments
liability
Type of incoe share
actual
Incono
Incono
as. % of
as % of
income
-
tax
actual
actual
pas
rents
liabi-
inco.m
income
lity
peyments
payments
Total Liecre
1.217.2
416.8
66.7
34.2
5.5
1
1
"ages  salarics
428.3
151.1
16.8
44.6
3.9
Propriotors: inoome:
Apric. & Forestry
208.6
85.1
10.7
40.8
5.1
Cther
549.3
134.6
37.9
24.5
6.9
Dividends & int rest
10.9
4.1
.9
37.5
8.5
Rcnt
11.4
1.9
.3
17.0
3.0
Transfer inco. c 2
8.7
Those csti ates were made bofore the recent supplementary wago paymonts t
to governnent workers. Both the ostimates of wages and salarics and
of tax liability are largor at present, the present incono tax goal in
tho budget standing at 6d.5 billion yen, and thc withholding portion at
19.3 billion yon as & rusult. The estiate of actaal incone paymente in
colu.n'l alrcady reflucts these incrcased wago-salary paymonts and needs
no adjust..nt on that account.
2 Relief and welfare benefit payments, old age ponsions, etc. Some nall
part of this incc. : ay actually be tax oxenpt becausc it falls bolow
the tax-exemption li its. Most of it, however, would be taxable.
The Finance uinistry made no allownco for this componont of income.
The i.plications of tnose under-ostiates of the potential and logal
tixpaying capacity of the public are sericus. First of all the budget
incc.c tax figure suggests an offoctive tax burden of l6 por cont of inconmo
payiicrts as cstirated'by the Finance Ministry. In torms of a rore realis-
tic cstirte of naticnal inccme payents the ovorall effectivo burden of
income tixes caild for in the budgct is only St por cent. Secondly, the
failuro I the Fin nce Ministry to revamp its incore cstiatss periodically
over the fiscal year, and to raise its sights on budget tax gosls
acccrdingly, reprosents a serious deficioncy in fiscal adrinistretion.
37
RESTRICTED

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
It tends tc prccto f.vcrable ccnsidoration of regressive and potentialy
inflationary types of revenue measures in a desperate drive to achieve 
balanced budget for its owm sako. Thirdly, it is evident that the distri
bution of thc under-estirato cf income and income tax liability is not
divided equally acong incoro groups but rather falls with the heaviest hand
on the wage-salary earner whose income is subject to withholding: In this
fashion the intended effects of a progressive inoome tax rate structure
are in fact largely nullified.
Actual income tax eollections through December are shown beloe.
torns of budget targets only 32 per cent of the total has been colleoted.
However, collections from the withholding tax, predominantly on wages and
salaries, stand at 79 per cent, or above the rate required to achieve budget
tergets. Collcctions from agriculture and business proprietors.subjest
to declaration of income and self-assessment of tax liabilities are only
13 per cent. Cwing to provisions of the tax law farmers are subject to
specic1 provisions permitting lter filing of returns and payment of taxes
sc that the bulk of payments from egricultural propriotors is expected
after 31 January. ithough rental ineome of landlords is a small part of
the national total, nevertheless the under-estimate of this type of income
by the Finance Ministry and the slow progress of actual collection of tax
liabilitics is cven more flagrant than for other income groups.
Incc.e Tax Ccliiotions to Date
Compared with Total Liabilities
Esti..ated by Finance Ministry
(In billions of yen)
Income tax
Actual
li.bility
Aotual
Deficit
oolloctions
Type of income share
for
collections
remaining
as % of total
Fiscal
through
tc be
liability for
1947-48
Decembur
oollected
the year
All income shares
68.5
21.6
46.9
32
"uges & salaries
18.4
14.5
3.9
79
Proprietors' income
48.9
6.3
42.6
13
Dividends & intorest
.9
.8
.1
89
Rent
.3
1
.26
15
1/ 44 million yen.
It is not possibic to make firm estimates of the average number of
taxpayers of cach typo for the yoar as a whole; nevertheless, the rough
ostin.tes vwhich are available ake it clear that the average wage and salary
carner, subject to withholding, has in fast paid a considcrabl: larger
absclute amount f income tax thus far this year than has the averago
t xpayer in the seli-assessmont group. Thus the overall regressivaness of
even tho income tax structure as it has so far operated is clearly apparent.
·38
RESTRICTED

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
-Prospects for fulfillment of budget estimates for inoome tax by th
end of the fiscel year arc not bright. Even allowing for the rise in late
payments following the 31 January final declarations of income, and
allowing for collcctions in April and May properly to be carried back
against fiscal 1947 liabilities, it is probabic that a largc deficit on
incone tax will remain. Neverthelcss, the current tax collection drive
of thc government, spurrcd by Eighth army surveillance in the field,
should do much to improve the situation.
Many factors have been suggested to explain the disappointing per-
formancc of tax collections and in particular personal tax laws and its
radical deperture from previous Japanese practice in the matter of dealara-
tion of income and self-assessment of tax liability. It takes time for
the taxpaying public to become familiar with its obligations and wdth new
methc ds of procedurc. Thc lcvel of taxpaying morality in Japan has never
becn high. Conccalment of incomc, particularly the large amounts of black-
market profits, and villful evasion of tax payment by self-assessment
groups have been important. h third factor has been the lack of adequate
numbcrs of properly trained and expericnced tax collecting officials.
Fourthly, thesc officials have in fact carried on a canipaign against alleged
incquitics and defects of the incomc tax law and have cven urged the public
through posters, mass mcctings, etc.,not to comply with the law or pay
their taxes. The tax officicls have complained of their.lack of power to
enforce the law properly and have also maintained that thcir remuneration
is con:pletely out of line with the importance of their public responsibili-
tics. Further, somc business concerns, though withholding taxes from:
employees, are not remitting the tax money to thc tax offices, and are
using the funds for finencing current operations.
On balancc it is clcar that the productivity of the Japanese tax
syster is far less than is neccssary to balance the budget and is completely
out of line with the actual incomc situation and the capacity of the oconomy
to pay taxes. Furthermore the tax program called for in the budgets is
clearly regressive in character. This. is even morc thc casc with actual
tax collections to date, analyzed above. Realization of this fact, quite
apart from problcms of equity or justice, has undoubcdly been a factor in
wage demands of trade unions and thus a further clement in the inflationary
situation in the last few months.
Chan, cs in Japanose Inoomc Tax Laws in 1947
Major changes and inprovemcnts in Japanese tax structure and tax laws
were madc during this fiscal year. The chief change was in the personal
income tax. In March 1947 a new law was made cffective. It called for a
more completc systcm of tax-withholding at source for wagcs and salarics
and for dividends and interest. Most important, however, was thc introduc-
tion of a sclf-assessnent system whereby rccipients of other typcs of incomc
were obligatcd to cstimato thcir prospective income for the year, assess
39
RESTRICTFD

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
their tax liabilities, and pay quarterly installments thcreon, subject to
final settlement based on actual incone carned as of 31 January. It is
this system which has broken down so badly in this first ycar of operation,
cither becausc of its unfamiliarity to taxpayers, or to its lack of strong
enforcement and penalty provisions.
In Secember 1947, a major alteration in the law was adopted. It made
numerous changes in exemptions and credits and tax rates, ih large part
designed to li hten the burden on wage-carners. It also provided for a
syster of severe fines and fenaltics for evasion of taxes, late payment,
etc. It nay be hoped that with this and possibly later desirable revi-
sions of the jaw, and with stronger enforcement and tax collection measures,
the  eccipts frem inoe tax, csrecially from the self-assessment groups,
wil1 shoy varked imprevement in fisoal 194&-49.
Goverament Finsnce. Pablie Debt, ane merease in Note Iasue
Because ef a cortanuing cash opereting deficit in Japanese Government
finances over the year 194? there has been a steady and generaliy rapid
In rc se both in totel national dent outstanding and in Bank of Japan note
issue. The increase ir the forer from 1 January to 31 December 1947
crounted to 11? billion yen; while the note issue incrcased by 125 billion
yen and murrently totais between 210 and 220 billion yen. There is of
course a general clcse relaticnship tough not necessarily a direct corres-
pondence tetween these two ragritudcs. The similar trend in 1947 is one
symptom of the feat that the government was unable to borrow from the
public at larg, absorbing private savings and thus "sterilizing" some of
the excess purenasliu power. Instead it was forced to borrow chiefly from
the Bank of Japan and moderatc ly from the commercial banking system,
particularly in the last qurter of the year. This involved directly an
increase in the noie issue and thus  heavy inflation of the noney supply.
However, it would be naive to lay prime stress on note issue as a cause
of inmation in generel, or on "controi" of note issue as a stabilization
measure. In fact such monetary phenomena are basically mercly syaptoms and
effects of the more basic malajustnents in the cconomy, involving serious
shortages of supplics of all kinds, maldistribution of existing supplies
and of purchasing power, and the ineffectiveness of thc budgetary and
fiscal syster. discussed above.
RESTRIGTD
40.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTEC
Change in Note Issue and Selected Benk of Japan Assets
(In billions of yen)
Period
Liabilities
Assets
Total
Nat'l
Note
loans
govt.
RFB
Issue
and
securi-
securi-
Loans
invest-
ties &
ties
ments
advanses
Total
+ 70.1
+62.9
+41.2
0
+21.8
Lar. 31 -
Dec. 31, 1946
Total
+125.7
+128.1
+103.9
+32.3
-18.1
Jan. 1 -
Bc. 31, 1947
Total
+188.5
+296.5
+159.1
+34.0
+3.4
Mar. 31, 1946-
Jan. 10, 1948
From the table some notion can be obtained of the major direct
compenents of the increase in the note issue represented essentially by
changes in the assets of the Bink of Japan. It is evident that during
1947 the increased hcldings of national government securities plus advances
to the government acdount for approximately 80 per cent of the total increased
note issue. The other part is represented by an increase in the holdings of
the Reconstruction Financc Bank in part offset by a decreasc in other loans.
Increasc in RFB securities which are guaranteed by thc national govern-
ment, actually reflect a more or less corresponding anount of loans made by
the RFB to private industries. Thus in fact an active private business
denand for credit is also a contributory factor to recent incrcases in the
note issuc although on a far smaller scale than the deficit opcrations of
the governnent budget.
During 1948 it vill be important to obtain better data on the private
demand for investment and working capital and the pattern to date of actual
lending by financial institutions to private industry. This vill facilitate
more cifective measures relating to the volume and distribution of credit
to business and thus contribute to the objective of maximizing production
of esscntial commoditics and minimizing inflationary pressures.
RESTRICTED
41

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.94)
Charge Department
Washington
Charge to
SECRET
Control 3923
Mar 17, 1948
SCAP
894.50/3-1748
6 p.m.
TOKFO
seuw
116
POR ACTING POLAD POR KENMAN PROM MARSHALL
Following conversation with Secretary Royall I advised
him that I would telegraph you specifically authorising you
to disouss with General Draper and his party the economic
aspects of our Japanese occupation poliey.
MAr shall
aF
MARSHALL
BSA
1948 MAR 17 PM 5 54
ACCEPTANCE DESK
DCT
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
OFFICESONLY)
0/1+
SECRET FILE
894.50
78W
0:FGWisner:asm
Cleared with
3/17/48
FE - Mr. Butterworth
SECRET
3
CR CLEARANCE
R上
8
MAR
17
11

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIS
FOR JAPAN
NORTHEAST AS
O-E OD
MAR 340
No. 178
DEPARTMENT/OF STATE
CONF IDENTIAL (For Department Use Only.)
DCIR
Tokyo, March 19, 1948.
SUJECT: Conversation with Director-General of the
Economic Stabilization Board.
18
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
ir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum
of conversation between Dr. KURUSU Takeo, Director-
General of the Economic Stabilization Board (formerly
Minister of Finance in the Katayama Cabinet), Mr. WATANABE
Yoshio, Chief of Liaison, Ministry of Finance, Mr. Marshall
GREEN, Division of Northeast Asian Affairs, and an officer
of this Mission. There follows a summary of the principal
points made by Dr. Kurusu:
I. The Japanese recognize the need for aid
to China because a politically and eccnomically
stable China is of paramount importance to peace
in the Far East, Japan's major market. It is
apparent, however, thet they do not vish such aid
to prejudice help for Japan. The Japanese contend
that Japar, together with the Philippines, can
more easily be a bulwark agairst communism than
China.
II. The newly-formed Ashida Government
faces an uneasy future, holding a narrow parlia-
mentary majority and drawing its support from
mutually hostile political groups.  If this
Cabinet can surmount the difficulties of the
next few weeks, including communist-inspired
labor agitation ordered to reach a peak in March,
more stringent controls can be undertaken.
III. A single exchange rate is not feasible
of immediate achievement.
A2
IV. Civil
vanmade
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's 178
March 19, 1948.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL
IV. Civil Service Reform has been interpreted
by lower-grade civil servants as license to demand
wage increases beyond the capacity of the new
Government to pay and to insist on privileges not
in keeping with governmental efficiency.
Respectfully yours,
v.30ex.
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Memorandum of Conversation.
Original and ozalid to Department
DC/R
850
i hn
HLawrence,Jr.:mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch
No. 178 dated March 19
1948 from the Office of
the Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Conversation
with Director-General of
the Economic Stabilization
Board."
HENCAAI DUI C CONVERSATION
UBJEC S:
hehabilitation of Far East and encroach-
ment of communism on China; Importance
of political and economic stability in
Far East to Japan; Japan and Philippines
as bulwark to eastward advance of
communism; stability of new Cabinet and
difficulties facing it; exchange rate;
civil service reform.
FARTICIPANTS:
Dr. KURUSU Takeo,
Director-General of Economic Stabili-
zation Board (Finance Minister in
Katayama Cabinet);
Mr. NATANABE Yoshio,
Chief of Liaison, Ministry of Finance;
Mr. Marshall GRLEN,
Division of Northeast Asian Affairs,
Department of State;
Mr. W. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr.,
Second Secretary.
FLACE:
Luncheon at Imperial Hotel, March 11, 1948.
I.
Foreign Aid to the Fer East to Stem Encroachment of
Communism.
Dr. KURUSU said that his main concern was whether
efforts of the United States would be devoted to rehabili-
tation of the whole of the Far East or a specific area.
He mentioned that he had been discussing this question
with Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, the Prime Minister, before he
came to luncheon. He stressed that both Dr. Ashida and
he hoped for peace throughout the Far East. On several
occasions, Dr. Kurusu has mentioned to an officer of
this Mission his concern over the encroachment of communism
upon China, Manchuria, and Korea. He reiterated his
anxiety, stating that he felt if nothing were done,
Manchuria would fall to the communists. He indicated
that he expected a stepped-up offensive by the Chinese
communists during the spring and summer. He referred to
General MacArthur's recent statement and expressed the
view that military aid should be given to China.
Dr. Kurusu

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No, 1 to
Tokyo's No. 178
March 19, 1948.
CO
-2-
Dr. Kurusu stated that in his opinion communism in
China proper was a foreign ideology and one not indigenous
to China. Judging by the past history of China in dealing
with foreign influences, he feels the Chinese will not
absorb communistic ideas completely but will in the long
run discard such ideas and remain Chinese. It was clear
from Dr. Kurusu's remarks that a major concern for peace
in the Far East stemmed from the fact that the Far East
is Japan's natural market. He stressed that Japan's
stability and progress depended largely upon economic
recovery which in turn depends upon two factors: (1) having
raw materials and foreign aid in order to produce things
which are needed throughout the Far East, and (2) having
markets which can afford to buy Japanese products. He
expressed an awareness that the Marshall Plan for Europe
will be helpful to the Far East, including Japan, because
economic revitalization of European countries, especially
those possessing colonial and commercial interests in
Asia, will necessarily stimulate the purchasing power of
the normal market for Japan's foreign trade.
Com ent: It is apparent from discussions
with Japanese 1 aders, including Dr. Kurusu, that
foreign aid for both Japan and China are believed
desirable, but that Japan's needs are judged to
merit a higher priority. The implication is
obvicus that the Japanese hope that United States
assistance to China will not prejudice aid to be
exterded to Japan.
An interesting point made by Dr. Kurusu was that
from a geopolitical point of view, the Philippines and
Japan could be more easily made bulwarks against the
eastward advance of communism than China. He again
referred to history and in this instance cited the
effectiveness of the water barrier between the Philippines
and Japan and the mainland of Asia. In elaborating on
the advantages of building up Japar, he stated that the
Japanese were more homogeneous, more highly cultured, and
more industrious than the peoples of the Asiatic mainland.
II. Instability of Ashida Cabinet
Dr. Kurusu doubted that the newly-installed Ashida
Cabinet would be as stable as the Katayama Cabinet. Refer-
ring to the narrow margin by which Dr. Ashida, President
of the Democratic Party, was elected Prime Minister, the
margin being so small and the adherence of individual
Diet members to the coalition Cabinet so tenuous that it
is expected that there will be constant difficulties.
The

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1
to Tokyo's No. 178
March 19, 1948.
CONF-
-3-
The left-wing faction of the Social Democratic Party
especially, Mr. Kurusu stated, is expected to be a continual
source of trouble within Dr. Ashida's government but its
support is vital to the existence of the government.
Dr. Kurusu indicated that he did not know whether
the left-wing members of the Social Democratic Party
were communists, but he designated them as fellow
travelers. He gave the impression that if they were
communists, they undoubtedly felt they could be of more
aid to the Communist Party by remaining within the Social
Democratic Party than by splitting and joining the com-
munists. As members of the Diet and as an opposition
group within the Social Democratic Party, the left-wing
members can continue to cause difficulties, but if they
split from the Party, they would not have the same amount
of power that they have at the moment, and in the case
of a general election, might not be re-elected. Dr. Kurusu
declared that the presence in the Cabinet of two left-
wing Social Democrats, Mr. KATo Kanju, Minister of Labor,
and Mr. NCMIZo Masaru, State Minister, will be a stabilizing
influence on Cabinet solidarity. It was clear from the
discussion that most Diet members oppose a general election,
more through fear of losing their seats than for the
given reason that such an election would be expensive.
Dr. Kurusu said that every effort will be made by
Dr. Ashida to attract the cooperation of all sections of
the Diet, including members of the National Farmers' Union
(Zenno) and of the Liberals. Dr. Kurusu felt that if the
Cabinet could surmount the difficulties of the next few
weeks, it could undertake more stringent controls, par-
ticularly with respoct to labor. Mr. Watanabe said that
the comrunists had received secret orders to bring their
sabotaging activities to a peak around the 15th of March.
The enclosed article from the Yomiuri Shimbun of March 15,
1948 highlights the local strike tactics sponsored by the
communist-dominated San etsu (NCIU). Mr. Vatanabe mentioned
that general unrest has usually occurred at times when
local food supplies have been at their lowest ebb and
when the greatest dependence had to be placed upon imported
foodstuffs.
(In a conversation with Dr. TSUkU Shigeto, Deputy
Director-General of the Economic Stabilization Board
on the evening of March 11, Dr. Tsuru stressed the
importance of regularity of staple food imports as a
means of counteracting seasonal labor unrest (this Mission's
A-46, March 17, 1948), which has heretofore played into
the hands of the Communist Party.)
III. Single

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 178
March 19, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
III. Single Exchange Hate.
On the subject of an exchange rate, Dr. Kurusu
contended that a single exchange rate was preferable
but after traveling throughout Japan, he is convinced
that a single exchange rate will be very difficult to
achieve immediately. He hazarded an opinion that if
raw materials are available in sufficient quantities
and a reasonable wage level established, it might be
possible to arrive at a single exchange rate for
textiles within a year, but for other things, it might
take longer, perhaps two years.
IV.
Civil Service Reform
In referring to his experience in the Finance
Ministry in connect on with civil service reform,
Dr. Kurusu declared that through the reform, lower
officials had been given the opportunity to go ahead
on the basis of ability, a great improvement over past
procedures. However, as in the case of labor reforms,
the newly-found rights of lower-grade officials have
been interpreted by them as a general license to demand
wage increases beyond the capacity of the government
to pay and to insist on other privileges not in keeping
with governmental efficiency.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
Enclosure:
Article from Yomiuri
Shimbun, arch 15. 1948.
850
"HLawrence,Jr.:mhp
CONFIDET

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.95)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Enclosure No. 1 to
Litical Adviser for Jepam, Talye,
on the subject, "NCIU Plotting
to Drive Cabinet into Klections
Local Strikes are Tactics by
Communists".
COPY
(Translation)
LCTU PLOTTINC TO DRIVE CABINET INTO FLECTION:
LOCAL STRIKES APE TACTICS BY COIUNTSTS
Yomiuri Shinbun, March 15
In the present strikes of S nbetsu (NcIu) groups of the Commni-
cations, Electric Workers, Public Officials, etc., which have been
initiated immedia ely after the formation of the Ashida Cabinet, the
Japan Communist Party's aim of "overt rowing the Ashida Cabinet"
and of driving the Government into holding a general election around
next June, is believed to be an important motive.
Through these strikes, the Jayan Conunist Party intends to
work up a hugs pressure of labor ffensive : hich will inevitably force
the new Cabinet to dissolve the Diet and hold an election next June,
and, accordingly the development o the sent strikes is looked upon
with cons derabe i  t. The en u, iie is increasing its
strength
al,em s  rrd s pre ram pince last Yarch,
by makinor bve t various "objective condi
ts
ncciields.
unte su leader r l h  he rolloding ubjective
conditors" rein r
e for ation of the new  mservative arty, co e l6c me bers of
the Diet's lower house, 's wil be s reed  other anti-Govern-
mert roups, ne uirg a out F Seume (a  nal Fr erst Unien), com
unis s, Dos i Club, and Dai- c i  ub, beai es t e 40 leftists of
the socialist I rty (he ave mnnced a php wouli reserve their
ri, ht to take ind endent cti n vis-a-vis the ne: Jabinet's policies).
In the franin, of the new iscal  ear's budget, labor legislation,
 rice revisions, etc., the new Cabinet is bound to face aifficulties
and onpositions.
Communist-led Sanbetsu originally plotted to stage the labor offen-
sive last uctober, but conditions did not favor its realization. It has
been changed for arch this year, with the object of forcing the Govern-
ment to hold an election in June.
Communists have decided to use the so-called "local struggle"
tactics. This forn of siruggle was discussed and adopted by the
"Suiyokai" (Wednesday association) of the Japan Communist party, which
is made up of Taokuda, Nasaka, and Shiga (three leaders of the party)
and whose aim is to study "how best to manipulate the labor unions, as
a tool of the "revolution".
The All Co.munications Workers' Union was in a favorable position
to adopt this form of communist tactics already last year (March and
April).
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to Encl. No. 1
ta Tokyo's No. 178
March 19, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
April). It was first taken up by the Union's meeting held in Matsue
City, and has been spread to the All Government and Public Officials'
Union. The "local struggle" tactics is a form of guerilla battle, a
nerve-war.
wo methods are used in carrying out this norve war - the "Fukko
toso" (Reconstruction struggle) and the "Kyojuchi toso" (struggle at
places of residence). The former envisages the control by laborers
of capital funds and naterials, while the latter aims at preparing
the local grounds for electiors, by rallying the general masses on the
side of labor (by making issues out of such subjects as electric power,
taxes, commodities, the 6-3-3 school system), etc.
But this nation-wide communist plot may face some difficulty
before it can be universally carried ut because of the recently or-
ganized "democratization" movement within some of the Sanbetsu groups.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.96)
CONTIDXITIAL
Leeal Strákee are Tastise by
Commaniate".
(Translatiem)
NCIU PLOTTING TO DRIVE CABINET INTO ELECTION:
LOCAL STRIKES ARE TACTICS BY COMMUNISTS
Yomiuri Shimbun, March 15
In the present strikes of Sambetsu (NCIU) groups of the Cemmmai-
cations, Electric Workers, Public Offieials, ete., whish have beem
initiated immediately after the formation of the Ashide Cakimst, the
Japam Commumist Party's aim of "overthrowing the Ashide Cakinet"
and ef driving the Govermment into holding & general elestion areued
next June, is believed to be an impertant mstive.
Through these strikes, the Japan Cemssmist Party iatends to
work up a huge pressure of labor offensive whieh will imsvitably foree
the new Cabinet to dissolve the Diet and hold an alestion meat Jume,
and, accordingly the development of the presest strikes is leoked upom
with consideregle interest. The Sambetsu, which is inereasing its
8
strength daily, has been pushing forward its progrem since last Mareh,
by making for the basis ef its movements the varieus "ebjective condi-
tions and situation" in political and social fields.
Sanbetsu leaders apparently think that the following "objestive
eonditions" are working in their favor:
The formation of the new conservative party, some l60 members of
the Diet's lewer house, which will be supported by ether anti-Gevers-
ment groups, including about 50 Zenno (Mational Farmers' Uniom), eem-
manists, Doshi Club, and Dai-Iehi MP Club, besides the 40 leftists of
the Socialist Party (who have announced that they would reserve their
right to take independent action vis-a-vis the new Cabinet's polieies).
In the framing of the new fiscal year's budget, labor legislatien,
price revisions, etc., the new Cabinet is bound to face diffioulties
and oppositions.
Cemmunist-led Sanbetsu originally plotted te stage the labor effem-
sive last October, but conditions did net favor its realizatien. It hes
been changed for March this year, with the object of forcing the Goverm-
ment to hold an election in June.
Commnists have decided to use the so-called "leeal straggle"
tacties. This form of struggle was diseussed and adopted by the
"Saiyekai" (Wedmesday assosiation) of the Japam Commanist party, which
is made up of Taokada, Nasaka, and Shiga (three leaders of the party)
and whose aim is to study "how best to manipulate the laber unions, as
a toel of the "revelution".
The All Ceumunications Workers' Umion mas in & faverable positien
to adept this form of osmmanist tacties already last year (Marah and
April).
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
DC/R
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
DATE: Apr11 27, 1948
FAR EASTERA
NA
SUBJECT: Tokyo'ε Dispatch No. 137, March 22, 1948.
Dr. Tsuru, Deputy Director of the Economic Stabilization
Board, spoke to Lewrence and me with his usual candor, insight
and articulation on a number of interestin~ topice during a
long luncheon at the Imperial Hotel. The attached 1s a fairly
good account of whet tranepired.
I believe the entire dispatch is worth reading, but in case
you do not have the time, I woulc emphasize the following points
mace y Touru:
5
0
Civil Service Reforms
33
Awere of tne strengle-hold on the government of the old-line
cureaucrets (mainly tre 30,0c0 graduates of t e Imjerial University0
Low De e t...ent nov in government), the Japanese were ea er to have N
their civil service system reformed. In response, the Hoover
amisslon was invited by the Governnent Section of Headquarters
8
to study and recomend cia: ges in the system. However, upon
arriv l, the Hoover Co.aicsion refused to discuss the problem
Vitn anyone except the Je nese Civil Service Reform Committee,
composed of the old-line bureaucrats. It wae for this reason
that tne Commiseion evertually recommerded a syetem of examina-
tions for in-service promotions which tends to strengthen the
position of tre ureaucrats, one reason bein- that the examina-
tions are now made by the bureauc ste and another being that the
curesucrats ere best quelified professionally to pese them.
Comment: Dr. Tsuru is right -- the Civil Service reform has
been a farce, but I do not th:nt thst the perpetuetion of the
cls clique in power will have seriour repercussions on govern-
C
ment in Japan and even if it had, there ien't much we can do
S
hout it. Te superior education, intellect and prestige of the
Imperiel University Law greduates will always tend to place
then i.. positions of importance in the government.
Need for Competent Economic Advisers to SCAP
fident
Tsuru deplored the leck of eny rerlly competent, high-rankir
力
advi er to SCAP on eccromic affairs. He said that military men
9
like Mej. Gen. Marquat could not be expected to underetand
t
economic theory and tec nicalitiee, and that prolonged contro-
18
0
versies with Headquarters ere usually due not to any reel dis-
agreement between the Japanese and the occupetion officials, but
merely to the latter's lack of technicel knowledge.
2
Lebor Reforms
F
CONFIDENTIAL
f
8

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -
Labor Reforms
Mr. Tsuru maintained that labor reforms in Japan conferred
rights and privileges on organized labor which are considerably
in excess cf whet the Japsnese economy can realistically support.
While he favored the reforms already instituted, he recognized
that it would be in laoor's best long-term interests if modifi-
cations in the Labor Standarcs Act were made now in order to
offset mounting pressures, many of them subversive, to junk the
reforms cltogether.
Economic Stabil zation Board
A eevere blow hss been dealt tne ESB by the poor judgment
of Dr. Ashida in not re-appointin: Dr. Wada as ite head. Most
of t..e top officials n the ESE were personally persuaded by
Weda to leeve more lucrative jobs 'n business end in the universi-
ties to work for the ESB. Accordin to Tsuru, now thet Dr. Wada
hes been forced to reei n, the best men in the EsB will return
to their former jobs.
Censorship of tne Press
Tsuru ssid at the conclusion of our meeting tiet nothing
hed been more damt ing to t e growth of democracy in Japen than
the continuation of SCAP's tight ceneorship over all matter
printed or read in Japan. As an illustration of the excesees
of the present censcrship regime, he stated that the recent
negative decision regarding publication in Japan of a translation
of Jemee Bryce's Rise of American Denoc acy was because it reveels
corruption in American politics.
CONFIDENTIAL
NA:MGreen/pm

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.95)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Tokyo, Mho22, 1948.
No. 187
NORTHEAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
APR 1 11948
DC/R
(For Department Use Only)
MG
1
DEPARTMÉNT OF STATE
Subject: Conversation with Dr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy
Director General of Economic Stabilization
Board.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum
ACTICN
of conversation between Dr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy
FE
Director General of the Economic Stabilization Board,
OUPIRS
Mr. Marshall GREEN, and an officer of this Mission.
208
There follows a summary of the principal points made by
Dr. Tsuru:
I. Many reforms inaugurated by the
Occupation will be modified when Japan can
conduct its own affairs. Decentralization
of industry and government will be more lasting
than land and labor reforms. The rights and
CONF
privileges of organized labor are far in excess
of what the Japanese economy can realistically
support.
II. Given the opportunity and means it is
STATE
ossible that the essentially unchanged "Bushido"
character of the Japanese people may provoke the
resurgence of the militaristic and imperialistic
spirit in a manner similar to that of Hitler
Deπ
Germany after the last war. Enforcement of
economic controls may prevent this. Change or
AISON OFFICE
control of the spirit itself is far more difficult
to accomplish although an improved standard of
living would help.
CA
III. The Board is revising its long range
Economic Plan placing greater emphasis on means
of population control.
IV. Most intelligent Japanese look mpon
American economic aid as highly desirable. They
Army William Draper and changes of view regarding
Ancl.
FEC 230 as omens of softening of policy toward
Japan
ve  the
. l.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
V. If the Occupation were to end the
Japanese could conduct their own economic
affairs, provided there were an interim
advisory and supervisory agency and interim
means such as the present Military Government
Teams for implementing and enforcing measures
of the Japanese Government.
VI. Competent economists are needed in
General Headquarters if it proposes to continue
its concern with the detailed operation of the
Japanese economy.
VII. A major cause of the downfall of the
Katayama Cabinet was the inordinate ambition of
the Democratic Party to hold the reins of govern-
ment. Top officials of the Economic Stabilisation
Board wish to resign because of the poor judgment
used by the new Prime Minister in the method of ap-
pointing the new Director-General.
VIII. The Civil Service Reforms do not
represent progress. The examination system tends
to perpetuate the bureaucracy now in existence.
The bureaucrats are the only group of individuals
who have escaped purging although their power has
been somewhat reduced by decentralization.
Bureaucrats and government officials in general
are corrupt, in part because of low wages. They
tend to belong to the political right. The
bureaucracy is headed and permeated by a close-
knit corps of some 30,000 graduates of the
Imperial University Law Department.
IX. Censorship of the press has increased
in severity during the Occupation. There is an
urgent need for freedom of the press and for
foreign publications and translation rights,
particularly from the United States.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
at
Enclosure: ATT
Copy of Memorandum of
Conversation between
Dr. TSURU Shigeto,Deputy
Director General of the
Economic Stabilization Board
and officials of the Department
of State.
Original and ozalid to the Department.
sid
ozalid detached nit
850
for Delik contul
WHLawrence:cs
55
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure to Despatch No. 187
March 22, 1947 from the 0frice o1
-(For Department
the United States Political Advis
Use Only)
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Convers
tion with Dr. TsURU Shigeto, Deputy
Director General of Economic
Stabilisation Board".
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
PARTICIPANTS: Dr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy Director General
of the Economic Stabilization Board.
Mr. Marshall GREEN, Division of Northeast
Asian Affairs, Department of State.
Mr. W. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr., Second Secretary.
SUBJECT:
Lasting Effectiveness of Occupation Reforms;
Tendency of Japanese to Return to Old Ways;
Potentialities for Population Increase;
Enthusiasm for American Aid and Expected
Softening of United States Policy; Ability
of Japanese to Conduct own Economic Affairs;
Need for Additional Economists in this
Headquarters; Present Political Situation
and the Economic Stabilization Board; Civil
Service Reform; and Censorship of the Press.
PLACE:
Luncheon, Imperial Hotel, March 17, 1948.
.I. Lasting Effectiveness of Occupation Reforms.
Dr. Tsuru feels that many of the reforms inaugurated
during the Occupation will be modified after the Occupation
is over and Japan is in a position to conduct its own af-
fairs. He believes, however, that decentralisation of
industry and government will tend to be lasting, because the
individuals and organizations gaining power will seek to en-
trench themselves and resist endeavors at centralisation.
Land reform, on the other hand, in his opinion will be less
effective. He cited the fact that it does not extend to
forest lands and that opposition is increasing to further
agrarian reform.
He declared that he is convinced that when the Occupation
ends there will be considerable retrogression with respect to
labor reforms; because the changes made were too advanced for
the Japanese economy. While he himself is in favor of the re-
forms instituted, he is well aware of mounting pressures to
modify them. For example at the present time, because of the
shortage of electricity, there is increasing demand to allow
women to work at night in order that the load on the electri-
cal system can be equitably distributed. Hours, too, he be-
lieves will be extended.
CONFIDENTIAL
II. Tendency

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Enci. to
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948.
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
II. Tendency of Japanese to Return to Old Wave
Dr. Tsuru stated that, frankly speaking, he does not
think that the "bushido" character of the Japanese people
has changed very much basically. There is constantly
evidence of tendencies to go back to the old ways. He
feels that, if circumstances were favorable and the means
available, it is reasonable to expect that there might be
a resurgence of the militaristic and imperialistic spirit
of the Japanese people in the same manner as among the
Germans under Hitler. Dr. Tsuru made it clear that he does
not think the means will likely be available in the future
and that he believes the Allied Powers will set up a system
of economic controls, such as limitations on the capacity of
ship building, heavy industry, and perhaps even light
industry (aluminum). It was obvious that he considers the
spirit of the people far less easy to change or control than
economic affairs. He stressed that the Japanese people will
become even less amenable to change unless the standard of
living is raised.
III. Potentialities for Population Increases
In speaking of the standard of living, he mentioned
that the Economic Stabilization Board is in process of re-
vising its long-range economic plan, a summary of which was
forwarded to the Department with this Mission's despatch
No. 106 of February 17, 1948. Means of population control
are to receive greater emphasis. As in many previous in-
stances, Dr. Tsuru emphasized the dynamic character of
Japanese potentialities for population expansion. For
example, last year alone there was a natural increase of over
1 1/2 million individuals. Population projections prepared
by the Natural Resources Section of this Headquarters have
already been forwarded to the Department with this Mission's
despatch No. 79 of February 7, 1948, transmitting a draft of
part of a proposed publication Japanese Natural Resources -
À Comprehensive Analysis. The Social Democratic Party is
considering a bill having to do with birth control measures,
but Dr. Tsuru believes no bill of this nature will pass the
Diet unless supported by the Natural Resources Section of
this Headquarters.
IV. Enthusiasm for American Aid and Expected
Softening of United States Policy.
Dr. Tsuru declared that most intelligent Japanese
observers and industrialists look upon aid from America as
highly desirable. Whether rightly or wrongly, they interpret
the impending visit of Under Secretary of the Army William
Draper and a group of economic experts, discussion of FEC
230, the Strike report and the statement of General Frank
Ross McCoy before the Far Eastern Commission as indicative of
forthcoming changes in policy of the United States under
which Japan will be allowed to retain more of her productive
capacity and will be materially aided with funds and war
materials to attain a self-supporting stage.
CONFIDENTIAL
V. Ability

=== Page 31 === (confidence 1.00)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
Ability of Japanese to Conduct own Economic
Affairs.
Dr. Tsuru thinks that if the Economic and Scientific
Section were removed from control of the Japanese economy
it would be a very bold step but one which the Japanese
could meet. He stated, however, that there should be an
advisory and supervisory agency during an interim period,
as contrasted with the present Economic and Scientific
Section organization which is actually an operating agency
concerned with minute details of the economy. During this
interim Dr. Tsuru feels that it will be important to have
some means such as the Military Government Teams for im-
plementing and enforcing measures of the Japanese Govern-
ment throughout Japan. In his opinion the Military Govern-
ment Teams have been of inestimable aid in the enforcement
of economic measures.
VI. Need for Additional Economists in this Headquarters.
Dr. Tsuru reiterated the need for more economints in
the Economic and Scientific Section which he had previously
mentioned to Mr. John M. Allison, Chief, Division Northeast
Asian Affairs (this Mission's despatch No. 41 of January 19,
1948) as long as that section wishes to be concerned with
detailed operation of the Japanese economy. He explained
the need by referring to the time required for explaining
economic theory to many officials in the Economic and
Scientific Section. He said that economics is a technical
subject and that many times prolonged discussion is due not
to any ultimate disagreement on the part of the Occupation
and the Japanese but merely to lack of technical knowledge
on the part of the former. He cited the efficiency of deal-
ing with Government Section where Mr. C. L. Kades has a
technical knowledge of his subject and with whom one can dis-
cuss problems without the need of explaining technicalities.
VII. Present Political Situation and the Economic
Stabilisation Board.
Dr. Tsuru has tendered his resignation from the Economic
Stabilization Board, because he has become disgusted with the
petty political maneuvers of the last few weeks. In his
opinion the activities of the left-wing faction of the Social
Democrats was only one of several contributing causes of the
down fall of the Katayama Cabinet. He feels that a major
cause was the inordinate ambition of the Democratic Party to
hold the premiership. He said that the appointment of the
new Director General, Dr. KURUSU Takeo, had been badly mis-
handled by Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, the new Prime Minister. He
described the Economic Stabilization Board as unlike an
ordinary ministry which has built up an organization over a
period of many years. He said it is a group of individuals
all of whom are experts drawn from the industrial and
academic world and from the cream of the bureaucrats in
ministries concerned with economic matters. Many of the
CONFIDENTIAL
individuals

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948
-4-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
individuals could command more lucrative positions in
private industry than in government service where a night
watchman who is a member of the Electric Industry Workers
Union for example gets a larger salary than someone who
ranks as a vice minister such as Dr. Tsuru. Others are
under constant pressure by universities and ministries to
return. Dr. Tsuru said that Mr. WADA Hiroo, the Director
General of the Board in the Katayama Cabinet, has been able
to weld this individualistic group into a cohesive organisa-
tion. However, he knew that Mr. Wada stood no chance to be
appointed by the Democrats because during his tenure of of-
fice he had antagonized them by his policies.
Dr. Tsuru thinks that Dr. Ashida should have consulted
the top officials of the Economic Stabilization Board before
thrusting Dr. Kurusu upon them. He said this was particularly
true because he understood that the Economic and Scientific
Section had sent word to Dr. Ashida that they hoped the
Economic Stabilization Board would be preserved intact. Ac-
cording to Dr. Tsuru, Dr. Ashida claims that the message did
not reach him. He urges Dr. Tsuru to remain with the Board
as also does Dr. Kurusu. Dr. Tsuru obviously does not wish
to remain but feels that if he refuses under such pressure
it will look like intransigence. He mentioned that he likes
the challenge of the type of work being undertaken by the
Board and feels that it is important, but he has become dis-
couraged as to whether he as an individual can accomplish
very much in the face of the pettiness of the present
political situation. (It is believed that he will stay on at
least until a successor is found.)
VIII. Civil Service Reforms.
Dr. Tsuru declared that he is not impressed with the
Civil Service Reforms that have been made. He pointed out that
they were prepared by bureaucrats and that the Hoover Com-
mission from the United States refused to discuss reforms with
any one except the Civil Service Reform Committee which was
made up of bureaucrats. The original invitation to the United
States Government to send Civil Service experts to Japan came
from the Japanese Government so that Government Section would
have nothing to do with getting the Diet Committee or the
Hoover Commission to listen to experts on administration from
the academic or business world. However, this Headquarters'
encouragement to the Diet was such that discussion was re-
duced to a minimum. Dr. Tsuru said that about all he and
others succeeded in getting was to prevent re-examination of
all officials in office.
He believes that the reforms exceed civil service
regulations in the United States and that the examination
system set up tends to perpetuate the bureaucracy now in
existence, one reason being that the examinations are made
up by bureaucrats and another being that the bureaucrats
who are selected because of superior intelligence and
education are most likely to succeed in the examinations.
He referred to the fact that the bureaucrats are the only
group of individuals who have escaped the purge and have
largely maintained themselves in power although decentralization
has somewhat weakened their influence. He considers the
bureaucrats
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948
-5-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
bureaucrats and government officials in general corrupt,
in part due to the low wages which must be supplemented
by outside work or gifts, favors, and bribes. In political
philosophy, he feels they tend to belong to the right wing.
He agreed that Imperial University graduates dominate
government service (there are some 30,000 he estimated)
creating an invisible but fairly tight control over all
governmental activities. He estimated that about 2/3 of
all Imperial University graduates in government service
were in the national government. Prior to the war they
particularly dominated the Home Ministry.
IX. Censorship of the Press.
Dr. Tsuru is of the decided opinion that censorship
of the press has become progressively more severe and more
damaging to the democratization of the Japanese. He feels
more freedom should be allowed the press. He indicated
that there was an urgent need for United States publications
and particularly for translation rights. As an example of
the harmful extent to which censorship extends he alleged
that the recent negative decision regarding publication in
Japan of a translation of James Bryce's Rise of American
Democracy was because it reveals corruption in American
politics.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTROL CO
FE
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
APR 81948
Tokyo, March 22, 1948.
No. 187
CONFIDENTIAL
(For Department Use Only)
Subject: Conversation with Dr. TSuRU Shigeto, Deputy
Director General of Economic Stabilisation
Board.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
AR
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum
of conversation between Dr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy
Director General of the Economic Stabilisation Board,
Mr. Marshall GREEN, and an officer of this Mission.
There follows a summary of the principal points made by
Dr. Tsuru:
I. Many reforms inaugurated by the
Occupation will be modified when Japan can
conduct its own affairs. Decentralisation
248
of industry and government will be more lasting
than land and labor reforms. The rights and
privileges of organised labor are far in excess
of what the Japanese economy can realistically
support.
II. Given the opportunity and means it is
possible that the essentially unchanged "Bushido"
character of the Japanese people may provole the
resurgence of the militaristic and imperialistic
spirit in a manner similar to that of Mitler
Germany after the last war. Enforcement of
economic controls may prevent this. Change or
control of the spirit itself is far more difficult
to accomplish although an improved standard of
living would help.
III. The Board is revising its long range
Economic Plan placing greater emphasis on means
of population control.
Iv. Most intelligent Japanese leek upen
American ecomomic aid as highly desirable. They
interpret the visit of the Ünder Secretary of the
Army William Draper and changes ef view regarding
FEC 230 as omens of seftening of peliey toward
Japan.
LK
CONFIDETIAL

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Tekyo's 187
March 22, 1948
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
V. If the Occupation were to end the
Japanese could conduct their owm ecememie
affairs, provided there were an interim
advisory and supervisory agency and interim
means such as the present Military Geverameat
Teams for implementing and enforcing measures
of the Japanese Government.
VI. Competent economists are needed in
General Headquarters if it proposes to contimue
its concern with the detailed operation of the
Japanese economy.
VII. A major cause of the downfall of the
Katayama Cabinet was the inordinate ambition of
the Democratic Party to hold the reins of geverm-
ment. Top ofricials of the Economic Stabilisation
Board wish to resign because of the poor judgmemt
used by the new Prime Minister in the method of ap-
pointing the new Director-General.
VIII. The Civil Service Reforms do not
represent progress. The examination system tends
to perpetuate the bureaucracy now in existemee.
The bureaucrats are the only group of individuals
who have escaped purging although their power has
been somewhat reduced by decentralisation.
Bureaucrats and government officials in general
are corrupt, in part because of low wages. They
tend to belong to the political right. The
bureaucracy is headed and permeated by a close-
knit corps of some 30,000 graduates of the
Imperial University Law Department.
II. Censorship of the press has increased
in severity during the Occupation. There is an
urgent need for freedom of the press and for
foreign publications and translation rights,
particularly from the United States.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Copy of Memorandum of
Conversation between
Dr. TSURU Shigeto,Deputy
Director General of the
Economic Stabilisation Board
and officials of the Department
of State.
A truc copy
Original and osalid to the Department.
of the signed
originab
850
WHLawrence: cs
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.97)
COMPIDENTIAL
Nareh 22, 1947 frem the 0ffiee of
(For Department
Use Only)
tion with Dr. Tsunu Shigete, Bepusy
Direeter General of Eeememie
Stabilisation Beard".
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
PARTICIPANTS: Dr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy Direeter Gemeral
of the Economic Stabilisation Beard.
Mr. Marshall GREEN, Division of Mertheast
Asian Affairs, Department of State.
Mr. W. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr., Second Seeretary.
Lasting Effectiveness of Occupatien Referms;
SUBJECT:
Tendency of Japanese to Return to Old Ways;
Potentialities for Population Inerease!,
Enthusiasm for American Aid and Expeeted
Softening of United States Peliey; Ability
of Japanese to Conduct own Eeonemie Affairs;
Need for Additional Economists im this
Headquarters; Present Politieal Sitmatiem
and the Economic Stabilisation Beard; Civil
Service Reform; and Censership of the Press.
PLACE:
Luncheon, Imperial Hotel, March 17, 1948.
I. Lasting Effectiveness of Occupation Beferme.
Dr. Tsuru feels that many of the referms inaugurated
during the Occupation will be modified after the Ocsupatien
is over and Japan is in a position to conduct ite owm af-
fairs. He believes, however, that deeentralisation ef
industry and government will tend to be lasting, beeause the
individuals and organisations gaining power will seek te em-
trench themselves and resist endeavers at centralisaties.
Land reform, on the other hand, in his opinion will be less
effective. He cited the fact that it does not extemd te
forest lands and that opposition is increasing to further
agrarian reform.
He declared that he is convineed that when the Oceupation
ends there will be considerable retregression with respeet te
labor reforms, because the changes made were toe advameed fer
the Japanese ecenomy. While he himself is in faver of the re-
forms instituted, he is well aware of mountins pressares te
modify them. For example at the present time, beeause of the
shortage of electricity, there is increasing demand to allew
women to work at night in order that the load en the elestri-
cal system can be equitably distributed. Hours, tee, he be-
lieves will be extemded.
IH. Tendmex
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Enel. to
Tekye's 187
March 22, 1948
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
II. Tendency of Japanese to Return to Old Maxa
Dr. Tsuru stated that, frankly speaking, he dees met
think that the "bushido" character of the Japanese peeple
has changed very much basically. There is constantly
evidence of tendencies to go back to the old ways. le
feels that, if circumstances were favorable and the means
available, it is reasonable to expect that there might be
a resurgence of the militaristic and imperialistic spiris
of the Japanese people in the same manner as among the
Germans under Hitler. Dr. Tsuru made it clear that he dees
not think the means will likely be available in the future
and that he believes the Allied Powers will set up a system
of economic controls, such as limitations on the capacity of
ship building, heavy industry, and perhaps even light
industry (aluminum). It was obvious that he considers the
spirit of the people far less easy to change or contrel than
economic affairs. He stressed that the Japanese people will
become even less amenable to change unless the standard of
living is raised.
III. Potentialities for Population Increases
In speaking of the standard of living, he mentioned
that the Economic Stabilisation Board is in process of re-
vising its long-range economic plan, a summary of which was
forwarded to the Department with this Mission's despatch
No. 106 of February 17, 1948. Means of population control
are to receive greater emphasis. As in many previous in-
stances, Dr. Tsuru emphasised the dynamic character of
Japanese potentialities for population expansion. Fer
example, last year alone there was a natural increase af aver
1 1/2 million individuals. Population projections prepared
by the Natural Resources Section of this Headquarters have
already been forwarded to the Department with this Nissien's
despatch No. 79 of February 7, 1948, transmitting a draft of
part of a proposed publication Japanese Natural Resourees -
A Comprehensive Analysis. The Social Democratic Party 1s
considering a bill having to do with birth control measures,
but Dr. Tsuru believes no bill of this nature will pass the
Diet unless supported by the Natural Resources Section of
this Headquarters.
Iv. Enthusiasm for American Aid and Expected
Softening of United Statee Polloy.
Dr. Tsuru declared that most intelligent Japanese
observers and industrialists look upon aid from America as
highly desirable. Whether rightly or wrongly, they interpret
the impending visit of Under Secretary of the Army William
Draper and a group of econemie experts, discussion ef FEC
230, the Strike report and the statement of General Frank
Ross McCoy before the Far Eastern Commission as indicative of
forthcoming changes in policy of the United States under
which Japan will be allowed to retain more of her predmetive
capacity and will be materially aided with funds and war
materials to attain a self-supporting stage.
Le Ability
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
v. Ability of Japanese to Conduct om Bcomemis
Affairs.
Dr. Tsuru thinks that if the Boonomic and Seientifie
Section were removed from control of the Japanese ecomomy
it would be a very bold step but one which the Japanese
could meet. He stated, however, that there should be am
advisory and supervisory agency during an interim period,
as contrasted with the present Economic and Scientifie
Section organization which is actually an operating ageney
concerned with minute details of the economy. During this
interim Dr. Tsuru feels that it will be important to have
some means such as the Military Government Teams for im-
plementing and enforcing measures of the Japanese Goverm-
ment throughout Japan. In his opinion the Military Govern-
ment Teams have been of inestimable aid in the enforeement
of economic measures.
VI. Need for Additional Economists in this Headguartere.
Dr. Tsuru reiterated the need for more economists in
the Economic and Scientific Section which he had previously
mentioned to Mr. John M. Allison, Chief, Division Mortheast
Asian Affairs (this Mission's despatch No. 41 of Jamuary 19,
1948) as long as that section wishes to be concerned with
detailed operation of the Japanese economy. He explained
the need by referring to the time required for explaining
economic theory to many officials in the Economic and
Scientific Section. He said that economics is a technieal
subject and that many times prolonged discussion is due not
to any ultimate disagreement on the part of the Occupation
and the Japanese but merely to lack of technical knowledge
on the part of the former. He cited the efficieney of deal-
ing with Government Section where Mr. C. L. Kades has a
technical knowledge of his subject and with whom one can dis-
duss problems without the need of explaining technicalities.
VII.
Present Political Situation and the Economie
Stabilisation Board.
Dr. Tsuru has tendered his resignation from the Economic
Stabilisation Board, because he has become disgusted with the
petty political maneuvers of the last few weeks. In his
opinion the activities of the left-wing faction of the Social
Democrats was only one of several contributing causes of the
down fall of the Katayama Cabinet. He feels that a major
cause was the inordinate ambition of the Democratic Party to
hold the premiership. He said that the appeintment of the
new Director General, Dr. KURUSU Takeo, had been badly mis-
handled by Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi, the new Prime Minister. Ne
described the Economic Stabilisation Board as unlike an
ordinary ministry which has built up an organisation over a
period of many years. He said it is a group of individuals
all of whom are experts drawn from the industrial and
academic world and from the cream of the bureaucrats in
ministries concerned with economic matters. Many of the
individuale
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. to
Tokyo's 187
March 22, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
individuals could command more lucrative positions im
private industry than in government service where a night
watchman who is a member of the Electric Industry Werkers
Union for example gets a larger salary than someone who
ranks as a vice minister such as Dr. Tsuru. Others are
under constant pressure by universities and ministries se
return. Dr. Tsuru said that Mr. WADA Hiroo, the Direeter
General of the Board in the Katayama Cabinet, has beem able
to weld this individualistic group into a cohesive orgamisa-
tion. However, he knew that Mr. Wada stoo no chanee te be
appointed by the Democrats because during his tenure of of-
fice he had antagonised them by his policies.
Dr. Tsuru thinks that Dr. Ashida should have consulted
the top officials of the Economic Stabilisation Board before
thrusting Dr. Kurusu upon them. He said this was partiemlarly
true because he understood that the Economic and Scientifie
Section had sent word to Dr. Ashida that they hoped the
Economic Stabilisation Board would be preserved intact. Ae-
cording to Dr. Tsuru, Dr. Ashida claims that the message did
not reach him. He urges Dr. Tsuru to remain with the Board
as also does Dr. Kurusu. Dr. Tsuru obviously does not wish
to remain but feels that if he refuses under such pressure
it will look like intransigence. He mentioned that he likes
the challenge of the type of work being undertaken by the
Board and feels that it is important, but he has become dis-
couraged as to whether he as an individual can accomplish
very much in the face of the pettiness of the present
political situation. (It is believed that he will stay on at
least until a successor is found.)
VIII. Civil Service Reforms.
Dr. Tsuru declared that he is not impressed with the
Civil Service Reforms that have been made. He pointed out that
they were prepared by bureaucrats and that the Hoover Com-
mission from the United States refused to discuss reforms with
any one except the Civil Service Reform Committee which was
made up of bureaucrats. The original invitation to the United
States Government to send Civil Service experts to Japan came
from the Japanese Government so that Government Section would
have nothing to do with getting the Diet Committee or the
Hoover Commission to listen to experts on administration from
the academic or business world. However, this Headquarters'
encouragement to the Diet was such that discussion was re-
duced to a minimum. Dr. Tsuru said that about all he and
others succeeded in getting was to prevent re-examination of
all officials in office.
He believes that the reforms exceed civil service
regulations in the United States and that the examination
system set up tends to perpetuate the bureaucracy now in
existence, one reason being that the examinations are made
up by bureaucrats and another being that the bureaucrats
who are selected because of superior intelligence and
education are most likely to succeed in the examinations.
He referred to the fact that the bureaucrats are the enly
group of individuals who have escaped the purge and have
largely maintained themselves in power although decentralisatien
has somewhat weakened their influence. He considers the
bureauerats
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
knel. to
Tokye's 187
Mareh 22, 1948
-5-
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
in part due te the low wages which must be supplememsed
by outside work or gifts, favors, and bribes. Ia pelitieal
philosophy, he feels they tend to beleng to the right wing
He agreed that Imperial University graduates demimate
goveráment service (there are some 30,000 he estimated)
creating an invisible but fairly tight control over all
governmental activities. He estimated that about 2/3 ex
all Imperial University graduates in government serviee
were in the national government. Prior to the war they
particularly dominated the Home Ministry.
Ix. Censorship of the Press.
Dr. Tsuru is of the decided opinion that cemsemahip
of the press has become progressively more severe and mere
damaging to the democratisation of the Japanese. Ne feels
more freedom should be allowed the press. Ne indieated
that there was an urgent need for United States publieatiess
and particularly for translation rights. As an example ef
the harmful extent to which censorship extends he alleged
that the recent negative decision regarding publieatiem in
Japan of a translation of James Bryce's Rise ef Amerisan
Democracy was because it reveals corruption in Amerlean
politics.
W. Henry Lawremee, Jr.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.96)
TNCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
MAR(31 1948n0
FROM
LOI-DOI. 51551MENT OF STATE
DATED MarOh 24, 1948
UIICLASSIFILD
REC'D.
Mar. 31, 1948 9:12
Secretary of State,
3
cifice et
D
Washington
ACTION FE
INFO
A- 787, Harch 24, 1948
DC/R
Departmen o State
0
Sub ject:
Times Editorial-Comment on "Japanese
EUR
Govornment on Triel"
OFD
P
OIE
1. Reforenco is mado to this Embassy's airgram
OCD
A-544, March 1, 1948, quoting Times editorial on the
CIA
political situation in Japan.
2. Tho editorial quoted below appeared in The
Times, arch 23, 1948:
"JAPANESE GOVERLYEIT OI TRIAL
The purpose of the American economio mission whioh
arrived in Tokyo on Sunday is to put the economy of
Japan upon a sound and self-sufficient basis. If it
succoeds it will buttres's the political reforma intro-
duced by Gonoral LacArthur. Tho new Prime Minister
Mr. litoshi Ashida, was put into offioe by the Socialists,
who deserted Iir. jatayama because they hoped to obtain
from a now Gover:mont the radical action which, in their
view, the economic position required. He promised them
an effective administration of the law giving land to
the peasants and vigorous measures to remedy the housing
shortage; he also undertook to consider susponding int-
erest on war bonds and imposing a tax on national wealth,
but he is already being attacked because his plans for
economic recovery are not precise enough to satisfy his
critics. The political leaders and tho system that has
brought them to power are on trial.
APR6
The most immediate danger to economio recovery, and
hence to the success of parliamentary institutions,
comes from the Communist Party. The Comnunists are few
in numbar and have done badly in every election, but
thay have a firm grip on some of the trade unions. Theif
power to malte trouble is out of all proportion to the
PERMANENT RECQRD EDeY t Thir g mia StUet  PG6R cnaI Ha rt_ Ots Which
seriously reduce production; if they succesd in brinring

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 2.
UNCLASSIFIED
A- 737 March 24, 1948, from Londor.
about diatress and unrest the domocratic institutions
by which Japan is now governed will be disoredited.
Fortunately the corviction is growing In Japan that
their activities are not disinterested, and the Social-
ists have lately rejected their proposal for a 'demo-
cratic people's front.' If the Ashida Govornment were
to take aotion acainst them, it would find muoh aupport.
The Japanese people are comin.: to understand that,
whather they like it or not, they may have to ohoose
between Amoricar and Soviot ideas as to how their
country should be governed ir future; and, unless
economic chaos becomes so sericus that Genoral MacArthur's
reforms are entirel: discredited, they will follow the
Amarican model.
Tho Conmuriste are by no mears tho only enemies
who marify presert failures ard exploit difficulties.
Thore is also the small but formidatle remnant of the
former rulin class, clin ing to oli ideas, keeping its
powdor dry, and trusting that if ths now demooratic
institutions prove unable to cranpls witn grave national
problsms its opportunity will come to rocapture power.
The reatest handicap of this cligue at the momont--and
of the Comunists--is the popularity of Cereral aoArthur
with the bulk or the peoplo."
GALLIAN
Copy to U.S. Pclitical Advisor, SCAP, Tokyo
CLJones/wg
3/23/48

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
Ms.Reas
TREASURY DEPARTMENT
WASHINGTON 25
OFFICE OF FINANGIAL AND
DEVELOPMENT POLICY
OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCE
MAR 2 6 1948
pelRfue
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVIS N OF OCCUPIED, AR IS
O
MAR 2 5 1948
no
Dear Ir. Ness:
894.50/3-2548
This is to aclmowledge your letter of March 19, 1948, inform-
ing the National Advisory Council that the Department of the Army
has prepared an appropriation request for 275 million for the
purpose of facilitating economic recovery in Japan, Korea and
Ryulyus.
This letter is being distributed as an NAC Document for the
information of Council members.
Very truly yours,
JolmlGnte
John W. Gunter
Secretary
National Advisory Council on
International lonetary and Financial Problems
CS/A
Yr. Norman T. Ness
Director
Office of Financial. and
Development Policy
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
FILLD
58
5.
50
3-2548
P

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
NORTHEAST
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER E
FOR JAPAN
APR141948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 204
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo, March 29, 1948.
(For Use of Department Only)
File
Jws
REGEIVED
SUBJECT:
Governor of the Bank of Japan.
OFFICE OF INTELLIGENCE
COLLECTION AND OSSEAT
DIVISION OF OCCOPIED AREAS
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
ECONOMIC AFFAIRS
0
Washington.
MAY 3 1948
am
R
DEPARTMENT OF STATÉ
S1
I have the honor to enclose copy of a memorandum
of conversation with Mr. ICHIMADA Hisatey-Geverner of
the Bank of Japan, the major points of which were:
I. U. S. Aid to Japan and China.
ACTION
American policy of aiding Japan achieve
FE
self-support is welcome not only because a
COPIM
restored Japan can help bring prosperity to all
of the Far East, but because it will reduce the
burden on the American taxpayer. Priority
should be given aid to Japan rather than China,
because it will be more productive.
Comment: This position is similar
to that of Dr. KURUSU Takeo, Director
General of the Economic Stabilization
Board, reported in this Mission's des-
patch No. 178 of March 19, 1948.
II. Economic "One World"
Economically speaking, the only kind of
world that makes sense is "one world". A
Marshall Plan for the Far East which might
eventually be merged with the Marshall Plan
for Europe, is believed worth considering.
III. Concrete Measures for Rehabilitation
Three concrete measures are essential for
the rehabilitation of Japan:
a. Recognition
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
APR1948
NOV 25 1948
FILD
DCD
LIAISON OFFICE
337
lass shut make
Dist
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's 204
March 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
a.
Recognition by labor of 1ts responsi-
bilities together with a rationaliza-
tion of industry to remove surplus
workers thereby saving over one hundred
billion yen in wages alone and increas-
ing efficiency some 20 to 30 percent.
b.
Achievement of political unity even
though difficult in the face of self-
interest of roliticians who talk in
large measure like their pre-war
predecessors.
C.
Obtain foreign credits in sufficient
amounts to give a real impetus to
momentum of recovery. Immediate
end substantial credits would be
less costly in the long run to the
United States. Japan must have an
international economy but is now
dependent almost solely upon the United
States.
Comment: It is worth noting that
Governor Ichimada, Dr. Kurusu, and
Mr. KITAMURA, Minister of Finance are
close associates. It is believed that
there will be greater unity in financial
policies of the Government and closer coordin-
ation between the Economic Stabilization
Board and the Ministry of Finance than was
the case in the Katayama Cabinet. This may
be offset to some extent by a considerable
lack of coordination between divisions of
this Headquarters, a situation often reflected
by ministers presenting in cabinet meetings
diametrically opposed views on the same
subject after consulting with separate divi-
sions of Headquarters.
IV. Inflation and New Sources of Income.
The shrinkage in February of currency in
circulation is a temporary phenomenon resulting
from favorable tax collection, the quantity will
again expand before the end of the year to meet
government expenditures. New revenues are proposed,
such as rationing cigarettes to workers and selling
the remainder in the open market, and the imposition
of a "special profits" tax on individuals who bought
Army and Navy goods at low cost after the surrender
and sold them at a much higher price.
V. Influence of Communism Underestimated in Japan
Americans do not fully realize the undercurrent
of communism in Japan resulting from influence
during
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's 204
March 29, 1948.
-3-
CONFIDENTIAL
during school age on those now in positions of
importance.
Respectfully yours,
U.V.Beace
W. J. Sebald
wttwold
Enclosure:
2ucl.
Memorandum of Conversation
March 18, 1948.
oe/R contial
Original and ozalid to Department.
850
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp
CONFIDENTIA

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
ject, "Economic Comments by
Mr. ICHIMADA Hisato, Governor
of the Bank of Japan".
MEMOFANDUM OF CONVERSATICN
SUBJECTS:
U. S. Aid to Japan and China; Economic
"One World"; Concrete Measures for
Rehabilitation; Inflation and New Sources
of Income; Influence of Communism Under-
estimated in Japan.
PARTICIFANTS:
Mr. ICHIMADA Hisato
Governor of Bank of Japan
Mr. MATSUMOTO Shigeo
Secretary to the Governor of the
Bank of Japan
Mr. KAVASHIMA Gaiji, Chief of Foreign
Information
Mr. KAl:II Yoshio, State Department employee
as interpreter
Y. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr., Second Secretary
PLACE:
Imperial Hotel, Luncheon, March 18, 1948.
I. U. S. Aid to Japan and China
Mr. ICHIMADA said that the statement made by General
Frank R. McCoy to the Far Eastern Commission on January 21,
1948 is very encouraging because it indicates a change in
United States policy from supplying Japan with aid to
meet minimum humanitarian needs to rehabilitating Japan
toward a goal of self-support. He pointed out that not
only is this highly desirable from the standpoint of the
Japanese but also from the American point of view because
if Japan becomes better able to care for its own needs
the burden on the American taxpayer will be progressively
reduced.
Goverror Ichimada has the same concern about the
necessity for peace in the Far East as has Dr. KURUSU
Takeo, Director General of the Economic Stabilization
Board (this Mission's despatch No. 178 March 19, 1948).
Governor Ichimada made the same point that he believed
that priority should be given to the rehabilitation of
Japan,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure. No. 1
to Tokyo's no. 204,
March 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
Japan, because the Japanese can be more easily and quickly
rehabilitated. In his opinion the rehabilitation of
China in the face of existing conditions would be a long
process. He emphasized that a restored Japan could be
effective in bringing prosperity to the whole of Asia.
He stressed that he did not mean there should be no aid
to China but merely that aid should be given where it will
produce the best results. He indicated an awareness of
the importance to wor ld peace of European recovery but
was hopeful that the importance of the necessity to
rehabilitate and stabilize the Far East was also of the
utmost importance.
II. Economic "One World"
He is hopeful that some way will be found to remove
the influence of Communism from China, because it casts
1ts shadow over the whole of the Far East but knows that
1t will be extremely difficult. From an economic point
of view he said the only kind of world that made sense
was "One World". Politically he stated he is aware this
is not feasible. However, he hopes eventually for a
Marshall Plan for the Far East which might at some later
date be merged with the Marshall Plan for Europe, with
the goal in view of making the world as nearly a unified
whole economically as possible.
III. Concrete Measures for Rehabilitation
Governor Ichimada said that three concrete measures
are essential for the rehabilitation of Japan.
1. Labor should recognize its responsibilities
as well as its privileges. In order to
receive efficient production in industry,
there must be a rationalization of workers.
Governor Ichimada estimates there are about
two and one-half million superfluous workers
in industry, a waste of more than one hundred
billion yen in wages alone. He suggests
that workers not needed be dismissed with a
guarantee of payment of wages for one year.
As a result he claims that industrial effi-
ciency will be raised some 20 to 30 percent.
2.
Political unity should be achieved. He emphasi-
zed that Japan should have only one major aim
at this particular time, to work diligently and
efficiently for the rehabilitation of Japan.
He said that he had tried repeatedly to con-
vince politicians including former Prime
Ministers, Mr. YOSHIDA Shigeru and Mr. KATAYAMA
Tetsu and that he has already stressed this
to Prime Minister ASHIDA Hitoshi. He feels
that he has convinced the leaders with whom he
has
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's no. 204,
March 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
has talked of the necessity for political
unity but that they are not able to convince
the rank and file of their party members.
Governor Ichimada does not have a very high
opinion of most of the members of the Diet
or of politicians. He expressed the same
opinion as Dr. TSURU Shigeto (this Mission's
despatch No. 187, March 22, 1948) that most
members are interested only in themselves
and their parties. He said he was depressed
to find that politicians thought and talked
so much like the Japanese politicians before
the war. He thinks that progress is being
made in democratization but that there is
still a long way to go before there is real
democracy. The Japanese politicians he
declared do not realize the full implication
of Japan's defeat and that, in a sense, the
Japanese are prisoners of war. He feels
that all Japanese are so isolated from interna-
tional affairs that they have no appreciation
of them. He is hopeful that SCAP will con-
tinue its efforts to help Japan achievé politi-
cal unity in a democratic manner.
3.
Foreign credits are vital in sufficient
amounts to give a real impetus to the momentum
of rehabilitation already achieved. He has
no illusions that this momentum is not very
great but feels that the present time is
crucial. He believes an impartial considera-
tion of the problems involved would result
in a substantial amount of credit for
material and equipment covering a number of
years. The amount of assistance in his
opinion should be that required to effect
recovery quickly because it would be less
costly in the long run. Economically he
said Japan cannot live without pursuing
an international economy. At the present
time he stated that Japan's dependence upon
the United States is absolute and that econom-
ically speaking it should be considered another
state of the United States.
IV. Inflation and New Sources of Income
In discussing the problem of inflation Governor
Ichimada said that the shrinkage in the note issue during
the month of February had been caused by a favorable inflow
of taxes. However, he estimated that by the end of the
year there would be an inevitable increase to meet govern-
mental expenditure. He questions whether taxes can be
collected to the same extent next year but is hopeful
that ways can be found to do so and to reduce the cost
of Occupation which amounts to forty percent of total
governmental expenditures. He said he is seeking new
sources of income. One which he proposed during
Mr. Katayama's
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1
to Tokyo's No. 204,
March 29, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Mr. Katayama's regime was that cigarettes be rationed
only to workers and the rest sold on the free market
to the public. He estimates that ten billionyen can
be raised by this means. This suggestion was rejected
by this Headquarters because Government Section believes
it would not corform to the spirit of the Constitution.
Cigarettes are therefore rationed to all men and women,
smokers and non-smokers alike. Although Governor Ichimada
knows this Headquarters attitude he believes it suffi-
ciently important to suggest this means of increasing
revenue to Mr. KITAMURA Tokutaro, the new Minister of
Finance. This time he is going to suggest also the
possibility of an increased sugar ration for women to
offset the cigarette ration given only to workers.
As another means of increasing revenue Governor
Ichimada is suggesting to Mr. Kitamura that a "special
profits" tax be levied or companies and individuals who
bought Army and Navy goods immediately after the war and
sold them for enormous profits. He realizes that such
a tax will be strenuously opposed in the Diet because a
large portion of political funds are derived from such a
source. However, he thinks that this Headquarters could
exert its influence to inaugurate such a tax.
V. Influence of Communism Underestimated in Japan
Mr. MATSUMOTO in discussing the influence of
communism in Japan claimed that there was an undercurrent
of communism which he thinks the Americans do not fully
realize. His point was that the present Japanese leaders
in government were strongly influenced by communism while
they were in schools and colleges. He stated that com-
munism was a very potert factor after World War I which
did not diminish until the rise of nationalism which came
about following the Manchurian incident in 1931. Japan's
education in economics and philosophy has always been
strongly influenced by German writers. Marxism has been
studied extensively by the Japanese and consequently
leftist ideas are more easily understood than such western
ideas as the Keynesian theories of economics. Mr. Matsumoto
thinks that many magazines now being published in Japan
are more strongly influenced by leftist ideas than are the
newspapers. He mentioned by name Kaizo and Chuo Koron.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
850
WHLawrence,Jr./mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.94)
00
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIS
FAR EASTERN AFF
FOR JAPAN
1948
EN! U SCARE
5o. 215
Tokyo, April 3, 1948.
COLVIDENTIAL
DClR
(For Use of Department Only)
Subject: Comments of Japanese Leaders Regarding Uaited States
R
EPART   STAE
Jid for Achieving Self-Support.
894.00
4
EE
M
The
Hongrable
16
The Secretary of State,
PR
Washington.
si9
834.00
I have the honor to refer to Section I of this Missiom's
despatch No. 85 of February 11, 1948, and to despatch No. 204
50/4-348
of March 29, l948, concerning the reaction of Japenese leaders
to the statememt made to the Far Eastern Commission by the Uaited
States Member on Jamuary 21, 1948 regarding the possibility of
Uaited States aid to help Japan become self-supporting, and to
report additiomal comments regarding the statement made to an
officer of this Mission by:
MIZUTANI Chozaburo,
Mimister of Commerce and Industry
Katayama and Ashida Cabinets);
WADA Hiroo,
Director Gemeral of the Economic Stabilization Board
(Katayama Cabinet);
TSURU Shigeto,
CONFIDENTIAL
Deputy Director General of the Beoncmic Stabilisatiem
Board;
KURUSU Takeo,
Minister of Fimance (Katayame Cabinet),
Director Geseral of the Economic Stabilizatiom Board
(Ashida Cabinet);
MATSUOKA Komakichi,
Speaker of the House of Representatives;
MATSUDAIRA TsuBeO,
President of the House of Councillors;
AP
SUZUKI Mosaburo,
Leader of left-wing factiom of Soeial Demooratie Party.
Clan shub
Their..commeats in fuller detail are enclosed but the major peints
and suggestions may be syathesized and sammarized as follews:
1. Rebabilitatiom
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokye's No. s
April 3, 1948
CONF IDENTIAL
L. Rebabilitation and the attaimment of self-suppert
by Japan is impossible without aid from the Allied Pewers,
especially the United States.
2. Settlement of reparations in the immediate future is
essential to emable existing iastallations, exeept special
R
plants, to be used for produetiom.
3. Aid should include not only food supplies bus the basie
rew materials required for complete utilisation of existing
industrial capacity md for repair of industrial and tremsperta-
tion equipment. It is believed that whatever aid is mupplied
should initially be sufficiently large to rehabilitate equipment
before it deteriorates further, with a tapering off as Japas
reaches self-mupport.
Note: The plan announced as backed by the Army
and State Departments during a press conference
on March 26, 1948, by Uader Seeretary Willim H.
Draper, if approved by Congress, contains this
suggestion concerning the scheduling of aid.
4. Reforms and reorganizations presently in process
should be completed.
5. Emphasis should be placed upon production. If econemie
democratization and the labor union movement seriously jeopardise
production, modifications in the implementation of present
policies should be considered.
Comment. This reference to labor unions is of
partioular interest since it was made by Mr. Misutani,
Minister of Commerce and Industry, who is a center
Soeial Democrat. KAto Kanju, Minister of Labor,
who is a left wing Social Democrat, publicly stated
that there will be no revision of the labor laws,
suggesting a difference of opinion within the Social
Democratic Party. It is believed that the present
labor difficulties will prevent any overt considere-
2
tion of modification of the labor laws until these
difficulties are settled.
6. Management and labor must cooperate.
7. Fuller and more economic use of industrial electricel
power must be undertaken because lack of power will be a bottle-
neck for a long time in the future. Technical improvements
discovered during the war should be adopted. The Ecomomie
Stabilisation Board is already thinking in terms of coaverting
coal into gas rather than using coal for the production of
electricity.
8. Rehabilitation of world economy and the renascence
of intermatiomel trade in which Japan will be allowed to play
a role are essential since the achievement of self-support
depends upon foreiga trade.
9. The
CONFIDENITIAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
COMFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despetch No. 215
dated Apri1 3, 194s from the orriee
of the Bolitieal Adviser fer Jegas,
Tokyo, on the subjest, "Comments ef
Japanese Lesders Regarding Uaited
States Aid for Achieving Self-Sappert"
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECT:
Reaction to Statement of United States Member
to the Far Eastern Commission.
PARTICIPANTS:
Dr. KURUSU Takeo
Minister of Finance;
Mr. WATANABE Takash1
Chief of Liaison, Ministry of Finance;
Mr. W. Henry LAWRENCE, Jr.,
Second Secretary
PLACE:
Dinner at official residence, February 7, 1948.
Dr. Kurusu said that, in his opinion, the statement of General
Frank R. MoCoy to the Far Eastern Comission was the most important
decision since the begimning of the Ocoupation. He regretted the
extremely small attention paid to the statement by the redio and
press when it was first mmde. He believes it is an indication that
the Japanese are not sufficiently concermed with imternetional affairs.
He said he firmly believes that the majority of the Japanese are peace-
loving and with American aid can achieve self-support by axporting
products in order to acquire sufficient foreign exchange to supplement
Japan's limited natural resources to meet besic needs for food and
raw materials. He felt the three most important things essential
for Japan itself to do are to:
1. Complete the reforms and reorganizations that are mow
under way.
2. Achieve cooperation of capital and labor.
3. Arouse a willingness and desire on the part of the
whole mation to work strenuously for self-support.
Dr. Kurusu is definitely of the opinion that economio aid will
bring political stability in Japan. He thinks then that Japan will
become a bulwark agaimst the spread of commumimm in the Far East.
He expressed greet concern and distress et the discoureging news from
Manchurie, stating that the import of the advance of commumism was ell
out of proportion to the sall amount of information comeerning it in
the press. He does mot think that communimm attraets the Japemese.
The only country in the world today which ean supply aid to Japan is
the United States.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
844
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
pril 5, 1940
CONF IDENTIAL
L. Rebabilitation and the attaimment of self-suppert
by Japan is impessible without aid from the Allied Powers,
especially the United States.
2. Settlement of reparations in the immediate future is
essential to enable existing installations, except special
R
plants, to be used for production.
3. Aid should include not only food supplies but the basie
740.00119P.W.
rew materials required for complete utilisation of existing
industrial capacity and for repair of industrial and tremsperta-
tion equipment. It is believed that whatever aid is supplied
should initially be sufficiently large to rehabilitate equipment
before it deteriorates further, with e tapering off as Japan
reaches self-support.
Note: The plan announced as backed by the Army
and State Departments during a press conference
on March 26, 1948, by Under Seeretary Williem H.
Draper, if approved by Congress, contains this
suggestion concerning the scheduling of aid.
4. Reforms and reorganizations presently in process
should be completed.
5. Emphasis should be placed upon productiom. If economic
democratisation and the labor union movement seriously jeopardise
production, modifications in the implementation of present
policies should be considered.
Comment. This reference to labor unions is of
partioular interest since it was made by Mr. Misutani,
Minister of Commerce and Industry, who is a cemter
Soeial Democrat. KAto Kanju, Minister of Labor,
who is a left wing Social Democrat, publicly stated
that there will be no revision of the labor laws,
suggesting a difference of opinion within the Social
Democratic Party. It is believed that the present
labor difficulties will prevent any overt considere-
tion of modification of the labor laws until these
difficulties are settled.
6. Management and labor must cooperate.
7. Fuller and more economic use of industrial electrical
power must be undertaken because lack of power will be a bottle-
neck for a long time in the future. Technicel improvements
discovered during the war should be adopted. The Beonomie
Stabilisation Board is already thinking in terms of comverting
coal into gas rather than using coal for the production of
electricity.
8. Rehabilitation of world econcmy and the renascence
of intermatiomal trade in which Japan will be allowed to play
a role are essential since the achievement of self-support
depends upon foreign trade.
9. The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.94)
Fekyo's No. 15
April 3, 1948.
-3-
9. The whole mation mmst be aroused to produce and
thereby deserve foreign eid.
10. Economic aid is required before politieal stability
in Japan can be attaimed and Japan become è bulwark agaiast
the spread of commumism in the Far East. This point has been
elaborated in Section I of this Mission's despatch No. 178,
Mareh 19, 1948, summarising comments of Dr. Eurusu Takeo.
The discussion also dealt with the difficulty of making Japen
self-supporting by reason of the enormous increase im popalatiom.
Last year alone, there was a matural increase of over ome and one-
belr mialion individuals, not including repatriated individuals.
This increase, aside from its effect in enlarging the meed for rew
materiels and power, makes it progressively difricult to achieve full
employment. The United States has already recognised this need.
(Dr. AsHIDA Hitoshi, the Prime Minister, mentioned the plans being
considered in the United States in his administrative address before
the Diet, this Mission's despatoh No. 214 of April 3, 1948 as restor-
ing Japanese economy to 125% of the 1930-34 level by 1954l.
A comment made by Dr. Ashida a few days after the MoCoy
statement is also of interest. Dr. Ashida, at that time Minister for
Foreign Affairs in the Katayame Cabinet, stated to Mr. MatemoTO Takizo,
Parliamentary Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, that he wes elated
at the announcement of the news, but because of his official position
had erpressed no public opinion for fear of offending the Soviets.
However, since he has become Prime Minister and since the indications
of concrete aid have come nearer and nearer to fruition, Dr. Ashida
has had no hesitancy in publicly welcoming the prospect of aid from
the United States.
Respectfully yours,
W..3e.
W. J. Bebald
Enclosures:
1. Memorandum of Conversation,
February 7, 1948.
2. Memorandum of Conversation,
February 17, 1948.
3. Informal and Umofficial Note
of March 19, 1948 from Mr. Mizutani.
Comments mde to officer of this
Mission in February 1947.
zalid hetarned
eary- er
ewrence,Jr.:mhp
K
CONFIDEPTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
COMFIDEITIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despetch No. 215
dated Apri1 3, 1948 from the Offiee
of the Bolitical Adviser for Jegan,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Commemts of
Japanese Lesders Regarding Uaited
States Aid for Achieving Self-Gapport"
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECT:
Reaction to Statement of United States Member
to the Far Eastern Comission.
PARTICIPANTS:
Dr. KURUSU Takeo
Minister of Fimance;
Mr. WATANABE Takash1
Chief of Liaison, Ministry of Finance;
Mr. W. Henry LAWREnCE, Jr.,
Second Secretary
PLACE:
Dinner at official residence, Februery 7, 1948.
Dr. Kurusu said that, in his opinion, the statement of General
Frank R. McCoy to the Far Eastern Commission was the most important
decision since the beginning of the Occupation. He regretted the
extremely small attention paid to the statement by the radio and
press when it was first mmde. He believes it is an indication that
the Japanese are not mufficiently concerned with imternational affeirs.
He said he firmly believes that the majority of the Japanese are peace-
loving and with American aid can achieve self-support by axporting
products in order to acquire sufficient foreign exchange to supplement
Japan's limited natural resources to meet basic needs for food and
raw materials. He felt the three most important things essential
for Japan itself to do are to:
1. Complete the reforms and reorganizations that are mow
under way.
2. Achieve cooperation of capital and labor.
3. Arouse a willingness and desire on the part of the
whole mation to work strenuously for self-support.
Dr. Kurusu is definitely of the opinion that economic aid will
bring political stability in Japan. He thimks then that Japan will
become a bulwark agaimst the spread of commumim in the Far East.
He expressed greet concern and distress at the discouraging news from
Manchuria, stating that the import of the advance of commumimm was all
out of proportion to the smmll amount of informetion comeernimg it in
the press. He does mot think that communimm attracts the Japamese.
The only country in the world today which oan supply aid to Japan is
the United States.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
844
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
CONPIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Despateh No. 21s
dated Apri1 3, 19es frem the offiee
of the Politieel Adviser for Japes
on the subject, "Cemmests ef Japesese
Leaders Regarding Uaited States Aid
for Achieving Self-Support".
(COPY)
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION
SUBJECT:
Economic Stabilization Board Reaction to Statemeat
to Far Eastern Commission by United Stetes member.
PARTICIPANTS:
Dr. TSURU Shigeto, Deputy Secretary General of
Economic Stabilization Board;
Mr. W. Henry LAwREnCE, Jr., Second Secretary of
this Mission.
PLACE:
Office of United States Political Adviser, February 17,
1948.
Dr. TSURU Shigeto stated that he had discussed with Mr. WADA
Hiroo, Chief of the Econcmic Stabilization Board, the statememt made
to the Far Eastern Commission by the United States member om Jamuary 21,
1948. They are of the opinion that the achievement of e self-support-
ing economy in Japan is dependent upon three poimts:
1. Speed of Recovery of Far Eastern Trade. The Ecosemic
Stabilization Board is sware that political considere-
tions will play a major role in determining the
rapidity of its recovery.
2.
Fuller and more economic use of industriel power.
This fact has been pointed out repeatedly mot only by
the Economic Stabilization Board but by the Japanese
Government itself. Power has been and will be for a
long time the major bottleneck in Japen. It is true
that raw materials other than those used for the pro-
duction of electrical power are also a greet problem
in the recovery of Japan. However, Mr. Wada and
Dr. Tsuru believe that if trade recovers, the problem
of raw materials will be secondary to that of power.
Dr. Tsuru said that there were wartime technical
developments for the more economic use of power even
in Japan which had not been practically applied. He
referred to the fact that coal now being produeed is
of low quality partly because Japanese coal is of an
inferior grade and partly because the miners often
carelessly dig c∞al containing large amounts of earth
or deliberately do so to increase the weight of the
coal mined. During the war, Japanese scientists dis-
covered technical improvememts to inorease the
efficiency of boilers using this low-grade coal.
Another method to inerease the efficieney of utiliza-
tion of coal is to convert the coal into gas for
industrial and household purposes rather than into
electricity. Dr. Touru mentiomed that, of course,
coml could be imported but that it was extremely ex-
pensive to do so.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.97)
mpel. No. 8 to
Ar11 3, 1940.
-2-
COMFIDENTIAL
The Beonomic Stabi lisation Board bas already
taken comerete steps towerd ackieving fuller and mere
economic use of industrial power by setting up a spesial
committee within the Board for coordimating and implemems-
ing plaas for the econcmic use of industrial emergy. It
will seek to find immediate means of improving the use
of power by taking into account techmieal imformation mow
available. As a further means of attesiking the problem of
power and also of judicious use of raw materials, the
Economic Stabilisation Board is in process of setting up
a Natural Resources Committee which, it is visualised,
will work from a long-range point of view.
3.
Aid from abroad. Dr. Tsuru said that in the present
state of the world, obviously if aid were obtained it
would have to be mostly from the Uaited States. He said
that the Japanese know they are in no position to state
the amount of foreign aid which the United States might
grant but if the Economic Stabilisation Board were given
è figure, it could give an opinion as to the best distri-
bution of the aid or sound rehabilitation. As an exmple,
he mentioned that if one billion dollars were to be made
available over a period of five years, the Economie
Stabilisation Board was ofthe opinion that it would be the
most economic use of the money to have the greater quantity
during the first two years. He said that Mr. Wade and
he did not make such a statement from a bargaiaing point
of view but because they were convinoed that it would be
much more expensive to repair some equipmemt severel years
from mow than if it were repaired at this time. He memtiomed
permanent imstallations, such as reilways and barbor fasili-
ties. If they are repaired now before they deteriorate
further, the cost will be less than if allowed to remaim in
their present condition or only partially repaired.
Dr. Tauru pointed out the tremendous diffioulty of making Japan
self-supporting in the face of the immensity of the expected imorease
in population. Last year, he seid, there was a natural inerease of one
and one-halr million people. This does not take into accoumt repatriates.
He went on to say that this increase has been maimly due to a decrease
in the death rate, although there has been some increase in the birth
rate. The decrease in death rete, he believes, has been the result of
the progress inspired by the work of the Public Health and Welfare Section
of General Headquarters. This increase in population, aside from its
effect in requiring increasing amounts of raw materiels and power needed,
makes it increasingly hard to find productive employment for so mamy
people.
W. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
844
WHLawrence,Jr./mhp
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
Easlosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 215
dated April 3, 19ss from the Ofriee
of the Political Adviser fer Japan
Tokyo, om the subjeot, "Commeats of
Japanese Leaders Regarding United
COMFIDENTIAL
States Aid for Achieving Self-Sapport".
(COPY)
Informal and unofficial note sent on March 19, 1948 to Foreign
Service Officer W. Henry Lawrence, Jr., by Mr. MIZUTANI Chosaburo,
Minister of Commerce and Industry, following ar luncheon et which
the statement of the United States Member made to the Far Easterm
Commission on January 21, 1948, concerning possibility of aid to help
Japan achieve self-support was mentioned.
TRANSLATION
I read with great interest a statement made by the Americem
Member of the Far Eastern Commission on January 21, 1948. The said
statement takes full cognizance of the present difficult comditioms
in Japan and contains suggestions full of good-will toward the future
of Japan. As a Cabinet Minister, I am deeply grateful for this
statement and confidently hope that the statement will serve as a
powerful instrument to lead the Occupation policy in future.
In this connection, I wish to be permitted to call attention to
three points given below.
In the first place, despite the utmost efforts within our power,
economic rehebilitation and self-sufficiency of Japan is impossible
without assistance of the Allied Powers, especially of the Umited States.
For this reason, it is hoped that the reparation problem which is
exercising great pressure upon the Japanese economy will be settled
as soon as possible in such a way as to emable the existing installatioms,
except special ones, to be utilized for production purposes as far as
possible. At the seme time, it 1s hoped that the great help givem
Japan in the form of food supplies will be extended to include the
besic rew materials indispensible for the utilisation of the existing
industrial capacity. In order to put this scheme into prectice as
speedily as possible, it is hoped that effective measures will be
taken to provide Japan with foreign credits.
Secondly, goods imported to Japan for her economic rehabilitatiom
should be balanced by her exports in the last analysis. Japenese
export being a link in world economy, it is very diffioult to promote
Japanese export separated from the rehabilitation of world economy. For
this reasos, it is hoped that appropriate measures will be taken to
rebuild international trede by closely connecting the economio rehabili-
tation of Japan with that of the world.
Thirdly, one of the most difficult problems Jepan is confrented
with at present is that the requirement for economic demosratisatiom
and for intensificatiom of labor union movement often constitutes serious
obstacles in stimulating productiom. It is coasidered imevitable thet
Japen shoald face these difficulties to a certain extest in reorganizing
her econcmy after defeat. Needless to say, the Japamese govermment is
exerting its utmost efforts for exesutiom and adjustmemt of these two
CONFIDENTIAL
requirements

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.93)
sl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. Bts,
A11 3, 1948.
COMP IDENT IAL
-2-
requirements. For the ecomomic stability and the rehabilitatiom
of Japan, however, emphasis should be laid upon increasing prodmetiom.
If economic democratismtion and labor union movement seriously
jeopardize production, it is comsidered necessary to make edjustment
in the application of policies relating therewith. It is hoped that
General Headquarters and the Allied Powers will sive sympathetie wader
standing to this fact.
Translatod by:
Y. Kam11
CONI IDENTIAL

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
Emelesure No. 4 to Bespeteh No. s
CONVIPENTIAL
dated Apr11 s, 194s frem the orries
of the Politieal Adviser fer Japen,
Tokyo, on the subject, "Cemmeats ef
Jepamese Leaders Regarding Vaited Statés
Aid for Achieving Self-Sappert."
(0000)
Informael Comments made to Foreign Service Officer W. Henry Lewremoe, Jr.
in February 1946.
Mr. SUzukI Mosaburo, leader of the left-wing faction of the Social
Democratic Party.
Mr. Susuki said that be personally and the Japamese pepple
would appreciate aid from the Uaited States as indicated in the
MoCoy statement. He said that it was essentiel that Japen have
aid in order to achieve self-support and that there was mo
other place in the world except the United States whieh could
furnish aid. He expressed scepticiem that the aid would aterial-
ize quiakly.
Mr. MatsUoKA Komakichi, Speaker of the House of Representetives.
Mr. Matsuoke seid the announcement brought remewed hope
to Japan as to the future. As im his New Year's redio talk,
he said that it wms essential for the Japasese people to buckle
down end work for the rehabilitation of Japan. He went om to
say that people must be willing to undergo hardships at present
1n order to be worthy of aid. He deelared that he believed in
the old maxim that God helps those who help themselves. He
stated that he was deeply gratified at the expressiom of comfi-
dence in Japan imdicated by General MoCoy.
Mr. MATSUDAIRA Tsuneo, President of the House of Coumcillors.
Mr. Matsudaira thought the statement was a major milestome
and indicated a new direction to Uaited States policy in Japam.
He recalled that General MoCoy has come to the aid of the
Japanese during the earthquake of l9ss. He felt that the
Japanese people would be deeply poved again and would respond
by redoubling their efforts to rehabilitate their homeland.
Mr. KATAYAMA Tetsu, then Prime Minister and now Adviser to the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Mr. Datayame said he was highly appreciative of the state-
ment of General MoCoy and shared the sme opinion. He emphasized
his conviction that economic self-support is a prerequisite to a
democratic smd peaseful Japan. He stressed that basieally this
depends upon the Japanese people themselves, but at the same time
he realises that assistance from the United States is mecessary
in the course of attaining this objective.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Dck
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
April 6, 1948
U - lir. Lovett
Subject: Secretary toyall's Request for Support of
894.50/4-648
Army Department's 275 Million Rehabilitation
Program.
I. A. Problem:
To reply to Mr. Royall's request to Secretary Marshall for
assurance of unqualified State vepartment support of the $275
million Army vepartment's renabilitation program for japan,
Korea and the tyukus.
B.
Facts:
225umm(15um)
This program is for the fifteen montns' period, April 1, 1948
June 30, 1949, and covers the occupied areas of Japan (180
million), the tyukus (20 million) and Korea (∮75 million). The
220世(12
State Department has strongly favored a rehabilitation program of
this kind for these areas. r. Draper has discussed this program
a number of times with me and, I believe, with yourself. State
Department representatives have worked closely with the Army on
the supporting material. The written justification for the program
was substantially prepared by State Department officers. Although
no written commitment has ever been given the Army Department on a
CS/A
particular figure, it has been generally understood through all
these discussions that State would support the program and the re-
quested figures, subject to the reservation that State cannot
defend in detail certain figures in the basic statistical justifi-
cation which was prepared by the Army vepartment.
FILED
In the letter from Ambassador Douglas to Senator Vandenberg
(Tab A) this program was lumped in the figure of wl billion for 
"Other Foreign Aid". Although I understand that the basis of the
1 billion was discussed with ir. Webb by the Secretary and others,
894.
I do not know that it has ever been discussed with Army officials.
The programs for aid to China (570 million), Greece-Turkey (w275
million), Trieste (¿20 million) and Inter-American (lO million)
45
total 875 million. This leaves w125 million for the Army program.
This is probably what now concerns ir. oyall. He may also be con-
cerned by the fact that Mr. Bohlen's letter to r. Eaton, though
4-648
refegring to the Army's program, does not place a figure on it (Tab B,
p. 4).
1£91
lir. ebb

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
Mr. ebb in a recent statement to the Senate Finance
Committee indicated that the Army Department is asking for
$275 million for this program (Tab C). His testimony as to
"Other Foreign Aid" proposed totals 1,150 million.
The Army's proposed program has been submitted by State
to the National Advisory Council, by agreement with Army.
C. Liscussion:
In the circumstances, it seems necessary either:
(a) to inform r. toyall of the indication given
Mr. ..ebb and that the State epartment cannot support
the full 275 million, or
(b) to inform r. ebb that the State vepartment
regards the request for 275 million as appropriate and
the total of l,150 million to which it would bring the
estimated figure for "Other Foreign Aid" as within the
qualifications on the tentative l billion figure given
r. eob and Senator Vandenberg. Thereafter, to send
the attached letter to r. Royall (Tab v), assuring him
that State will support the request in the National
Advisory Council hearing but will wish to consider the
conclusions of the members of NAC before giving assurance
of support of any specific rigure in later proceedings.
It is believed that the Army's requested program is reasonable
and the total figure of 1,l50 million reached by putting the Army's
program at 275 million is vithin the qualified statement contained
in the letter to Senator Vandenberg and the expressions made to
I'r. Vebb. However, State should retain the right to consider the
views of NAC before concluding on its later position.
D. Recommendations:
Alternative (b) above is recommended.
II。
It is recormended that this letter also clarify the situation on the
enabling legislation needed to authorize the proposed appropriation.
Iwo versions of an enabling bill have been submitted with full
State, Army and Bureau of the Budget concurrence, the later one
containing provisions advanced by State as necessary for its admini-
stration of Germany upon transfer and for post-occupation aid to
Korea. The vepartment of the Army has introduced two bills entirely
without

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
without reference to State and omitting the provisions regarded
as important by State. It is imperative that this confused
situation be clarified at once. A re-draft bill containing all
provisions desired by State and with a preamble requested by
ir. Vorys is attached, at Tab E. ir. Royall has informed me
through General Noce that he agrees to its submission and will
support it.
Cs
Charles E. Saltzman
Pag
C218
OFPC1axton:br
OE
E
NA
C
ihitman
ood
Allison
Gro
Bohlen
(approved in draft - see attached blue sheets)

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
COEY
February 6, 1948
My dear Senator Vandenberg:
I am now able to give you an estimate of the total amount for
which the Congrees may be asked to authorize appropriations for
foreign financial assistance to cover the remainder of fiscal year
1948 and fiscal year l949. The estimate follows and you will note
that it contains certain items which are already before the Congress.
Included in President's
Additions to President's
Budget of Appropriations
Budget of Appropriations
European Recovery Program
6,800 millions
Government and Relief in
Occupied Areas
1,400 millions
Philippine Jar Damage,
Rehabilitation and
Veterans Benefits
133 millions*
Other Foreign Aid (including
China)
750 millions (around)  250 millions
9,083 millions
250 millions
TOTAL
9.333 millions
*Appropriation request for fiscal year 1949 authorized by P.L. 370
(79th Congress)
I have indicated that total "Other Foreign Aid" estimated requests
for authorizations will be "around" one billion dollars b ecause it is not
possible to determine the total of this item with finality at this time. This
is due to the fact that the various programs in this category have not been
fully cleared and screened in the Executive Branch. The proposed programs
included in this item are China Aid, Greek-Turkish Military Aid, Army Request
for Japanese-Korean Reconstruction, Inter-American Military Cooperation and
Trieste Aid. ork on the China program has progressed sufficiently so that I
can indicate the probable amount of the request for this program at about $570
million though I should like to emphasize that this does not represent an
official request approved by the President. As to the other programs mentioned,
I cannot yet give you an estimated breakdown but, as indicated, my best present
judgment is that they will total slightly under 500 million. I shall, of
course, be glad to furnish more detailed and definite figures later when I am
in a position to do so.
I trust this information will be helpful to you.
Sincerely yours,
The Honorable
Arthur H. Vandenberg, Chairman
Senate Foreign Relations Committee.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
5120
DFPARTMENT OF STATE
"ASSISTANT SECRETARY
4/6/48
S/S - Mr. Humelsine:
This is the reply to one of the
questions asked the Secretary by
Mr. Royall several weeks ago. It has
been very long delayed because the
situation referred to has changed a
number of times and the letter has had
to be brought up to date each time.
Please call me if you have any
questions.
F
F. F. Claxton, Mr.

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FOR THE PRESS
MARCH 8, 1948
NO. 181
The following is the text of a letter and enclosures.
from the Honorable Charles E. Bohien, Counselor of the
Department cf State, to the Honoratle Charles A. Eaton,
Chairman, House Foreign Affairs Committee, and which was
made public by the Committee today:
"March 4, 1948
"My dear Dr. Eaton:
"I refer to your 1etter cf February 18, 1948 to the
Secretary transmitting a ccpy of the resolution adopted that
day by the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
"The Resclution requested that the State Department
'furnish the Committee with a statement of all foreign policy
legislation needed for this session immediately and the
cstimated authcrizations and appropriations to be requested
together with an agenda of any other steps propcsed to be
taken by the State Bepartment to support the financial
aspects of its fcreign policy....'.
"In response to questioning by Committee members during
beth the open. hearing and the executive session on Pebruary
20; Secretary Marshall discussed the Department's legislative
program, including certain of its financial aspects. There
are enclosed in response to the. Committee's resolution and
in supplement to the Secretary's answers during the hearings:
"(1) A statement of all foreign policy legislation
needed this sessicn, and
"(2)
The estimated authorizations and appropriations
to be requested this session.
"The first enclosure amends in some respects and brings
up to date the list of proposed foreign policy legislation
which Mr. Lovett sent you on December 3, 1947. The second
enclcsure is in effect a supplement to the information which
Secretary Marshall sent you by letter on February 6, with
particular reference to the item therein described as
'other foreign aid (including Cnina)'. The China Aid request
for $570 million has already been submitted as has the Greek-
Turkish Aid ameniment, requesting authorization for additiona
appropriaticns in the amount of $275 million. The. item in
enclosure II on Eccnomic Development of Latin America was not
mentioned in the Secretary's letter of February 6 because
decisions were not sufficiently definite at that time to
warrant its inclusion.
"As you know, instability in world conditions is such
that it would be impossible to give ycur Comnittee positive
assurance that no additional foreign pc:icy legislation will
be requested during this sesslon. in tne estiimate of the
Department, however, the enclosures lisr, ali foreign policy
legislaticn which the Department now foresees as likely to be
requested during this session of the Congress, except for
several treaties which will be submitted to the Senate and
for several relatively unimpcrtant and non-controversial iten
which may be submitted this session for action but upon which
final decisions have not been reached.
"In

=== Page 68 === (confidence 1.00)
-2-
"In response to that portion of the resolution which
requested 'an agenda of any other steps proposed to be taken
by the State Department to support the finanoial aspects of
its foreign policy', the:Department has no further comments to
offer than those which the Secretary submitted during the
hearings on February 20.
"Sincerely yours,
"For the Secretary of State:
"CHARLES E. BOHLEN,
"Counselor
"Enclosures:
"1.
Statement of all Foreign Policy Legislaticn Needed this
Session.
"2.
The Estimated Authorizations and Appropriations to be
Requested this Session-in which the Department of State
has an Interest."
February 27, 1948
1.
Statement in Response to Request of House
Committee on Foreign Affairs for a "State-
ment of all Foreign Policy Legislation
Needed this Session".
For convenience and clarity the following list is divided into
three parts.
Part I includes, in a suggested order or priority, all
Department sponsored legislation now before the House Committee
on Foreign Affairs upon which there has not been firal action
by either House and legislaticn which has not yet been submitted
to the Congress by the Executive and which, as in the case of the
renewal of the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act, may be referred to
Committees other than the Foreign Affairs Committee.
Part II lists, without reference to any suggested order of
priority, foreign policy legislation upon which the Senate has
completed action but which awaits House action or the convening
of a conference.
Part III lists foreign policy legislation which the Department
1s sponsoring by itself, or jointly with other Departments, but
which has been referred to Committees other than the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
2. Foreign Policy Legislation Submitted by the Department of
State Upor Which Final Action has nct Been Taken by Either House
(in suggested crder cf priority).
1.
The European Recovery Program.
2.
Amendments to Greek-Turkish Aid Legislation (PL 75).
3.
China Aid Program.
4.
Trieste Legislation.
5.
Renewal of Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act (not yet
submitted to the Congress).
6.
The Inter-American Military Cooperation Act (H. R. 3836,
reported out by House Foreign Affairs Committee but not
yet acted upon).
7.
Munitions Control Act (submitted on Apr1l 15, 1947 and
referred to House Foreign Affairs Committee, H.Doc.195.)
8.
Organic Legislation for Government of Trust Territories
of the Pacific Islands (not yet submitted to the Congress).
9.Authorization

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
9.
Authorization for loan of $65 million to finance con-
struction of the United Nations Headquarters (not yet
submitted to the Congress).
10. Amendment of the United Nations Participation Act
(PL 264, 79th Congress). To authorize the appointment
of an additional representative to the United Nations
and for otrer purposes. (Not yet submitted to the
Congress).
li. Authcrization for Extension of Aid to Destitute Ameri-
cans Abrcad. (Submitted to the Congress on July 14,
1947 and referred to House Committee on Foreign Affairs
12. Authorization for the State Department to perform cer-
tain ponsular type functions for German nationals in
the United States. (H.R. 4330 favorably reported upon
by House Foreign Affairs Committee on July 23, H. Re-
port 1045).
1?. Authorization to Farticipate in the Pan American Rail-
way Congress (S.J. Res. i77. Not introduced in House.
Raiiway Congress is scheduled to meet in late March and
legislation shculd, if possible, be enacted before
then.)
14. Prccedural Amendments to Charter of Institute of Inter-
American Affairs (PL 369), amendments introduced by
Mr. Jonkman on January 26, 1948.
15. Authorization for detail of United States personnel to
International Organizations (submitted by letter dated
January i9, 1948 and referred to House Foreign Affairs
Committee).
16. Authorization for Basic Autherity for Assistant
Secretaries' of State Positions in Department of State.
II. E rsign Foliey Legislation Upon Which Senate hction
Has Been Compieted an! Which is Now Fonding Before the House
Oommittee on Foreign Affairs or Awaiting Actlon by the House
of Represeniatives.
World Health Organization (H.J. Res. 161, passed by
Senate as S.J. Res. 8, Juiy 7, 1947).
こ.
Amendment of Constitution of the Intcrnational Labor
Organization (S.J. Res 117, passed by Senate, June 2,
1947. H. Report 1057).
3.
Authorization for United States Participation in the
Caribbean Commission (H. J. Res. 231, amended and
passed by Senate, February 2, 1948).
4.
Convention on Privileges and Immunities of the United
Naticns. (Submitted with reruest for action by joint
resolution. S.J. Res. 136 passed by Senate on July 17,
1947)
う.
Authorization for Fayment of Swiss Claim for Bomb
Damage. (S. 1605, reported December 18, 1947, S. Rep.
805) Passed by Senate on February 2, 1948.
6. Authorizatio

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
6.
Authorization for Reliéf of Certain Foreign Service
Officers. (H.R. 4186, amended and passed by Senate
and awaiting House action.)
III. Foreign Policy Legislation before Committees Other
than the Foreign Affairs Committee.
1. Displaced persons (Stratton Bill, H.R. 2910, Judiciary
Committee).
2.
Authorization for detail of Military and Naval Missions
to Foreign Governments. (H.R. 2313, Armed Services
Committee.)
3.
Authorization for Admission of Aliens to Military Schools.
(H.R. 5182, Armed Services Committee.)
February 27, 1948
II.
Statement in Response to Recuest of House
Committee or Foreign Affairs for  the
estimated authorizatiors and appropriations
to be reruested" this Session in which the
Department of State has an interest.
NOTE: This list does not irclude items which cn this date
had already been submitted to the Congress particularly the China
Aid program in the amount of $570 million, the Greek-Turkish Aid
amendments calling for authorization and appropriations of
$275 million, and estimates for departmental, foreign service
and information program expenditures. The list may be subject
to some change as all of the programs covered have rot been
fully cleared and sereened in the Executive branch.
1. Japanese-Korean Reconstruction.
The Department of the Army is developing an economic
rehabri ivat!.
propriation recuest for Japan, Korca, and
the Ryukyu Islands. The amount to be requested has not
yet been finally determined. (Not included in Enclosure No.
I because this is an Army item in which there is a
foreign policy interest.)
2. Trieste Aid.
The Department of State expects to reouest authority
to extend financial assistance to the US-UK zone in Trieste
for the 15-morth period April 1, 1948 - June 30, 1549
to prevent disease and unrest. It is now cortemplated that
a request will be submitted for the amendment of Public
Law 389 which provides interim aid to Italy, France and
Austria to include Trieste and that an appropriation of
$20 million will be recuested under the authority of Public
Law 389.
3.
. Assistance for the Development of Latin America.
The Executive Branch of the Government expects to ask
the Congress to increase the lending authority of the Export-
Import

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
Import Bank by $5o0 million for loans to Latin America.
State Department plans to assist in the presentation of
this re uest to the Congress. The only action recuired by
Congress is the raising of the present lending authority of
the Export-Import Bark, no appropriation recuest 1s neces*
sary.
4. Loan for United Nations Headcuarters Construction.
An agreement between the United States and the United
Nations is expected to be signed in the near future,
setting forth the terms cf a proposed United States interest
free loan of $65 million for the construction of United
Nations headruarters. After the agreement is signed, the
President is expected to transmit the agreement to the Con-
gress for approval and reouest the necessary authorizing
legislation and appropriation. The loan is to be repaid
over a period of 30 years.
5. Inter-American Military Cooperation.
Final figures are not yet available on the amount that
will be needed to implement this legislation which is now
pending before the House of Representatives.
* * *

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
Table I
Summary of Budget Estimates for Foreign Aid Programs
(Including revisions of Jamuary budget where noted)
(vill1ons of dollars)
Fiscal 1948
Fiscal 1949
Unobli
Unobl1-
Progrem
Appro
Obliga-
Expen-
gated
Appro
Cbliga-
Expen-
gated
priatione
tions
ditures
Balance
priations
tions
ditures
Ba?nce
332
272
60
540
375
165
998
,250
1,250
☆
73t
500
2,700
1,700
一
400
275
119
66
43
488
58
44
51
121
123
71
71
71
2
201
1
722
26
290
2,347
,8(0
1,000
500
5,800
5,800
4,000
770
145
65
425
425
405
eekwurkish aid
275
- d/
275
275
150
ksd to Prieste
20
4
2
16
16
13
$1150.
Latin American Vili-
tary Cooperation
10
4
2
6
6
8
 Eastern
reconstruction c/
275
50
25
225
225
175
Subtotal
7,950
203
594
6.747
6,747
4,751
Grand total
10,497
5,448
5,316
6.773
1,437
8,237
7,098
Bank's accounte not kept on usual obligation basie.
Includes $26 million of obligations under contract and other obligation authority.
6/ Figures under "Other forsign aid" are revised from Jamary budget. See Table II for detaile of revisiem.
/ Preliminary estimate submitted by Department of the Army, not yet reviewed.
 Eetimted that about &50 million r:ill be encumbered for procurement, but not actually obligated de to A
allotment system.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.98)
April 6, 1948
U - ir. Lovett
Subject: Secretary hoyail's Roquest for Support of
Aray Department's 275 illion Rehabilitation
I rogran.
I. A. Froblem:
To reply to r. Royall's request to secretary arshall for
assurance of unqualified State vepartment support of the $275
million Army Department's rehabilitation program for Japan,
Korea and the liyukus.
3. Facts:
This program is for the fifteen montns' period, April 1, 1948
to June 30, 1949, and covers the occupied areas of Japan($180
million), the yukus (20 million) and Korea (75 miliion). The
tate epartment has strongly favored a rehabilitation program of
this kind for these areas. ir. Draper has discussed this program
a number of times with me and, I believe, with yourself. State
Department representatives have worked closely with the Army on
the supporting material. The written justification for the program
was substantially prepared by State Department officers. Although
no written commitment has ever been given the Army Department on a
particular figure, it has been generally understood through all
these discussions that tate would support the program and the re
quested figures, subject to the reservation that State cannot
defend in detail certain figures in the basic statistical justifi-
cation which was prepared by the Army vepartment.
In the letter from Ambassador Douglas to Senator Vandenberg
(Tab A) this program was lumped in the figure of .1 billion for
"Other Foreign Aid". lthough I understand that the basis of the
1 billion was discussed with r.  ebb by the Secretary and others,
I do not know that it has ever been discussed with Army officials.
The programs for aid to China (570 million), Greece-Turkey ($275
million), Trieste (20 million) and Inter-American ($l0 million)
total 875 million. This leaves 125 million for the Army program.
This is probably what now concerns r. Hoyall. He may also be con-
cerned by the fact that r. Bohlen's letter to ir. Eaton, though
referring to the Army's program, does not place a figure on it (Tab B,
p. 4).
ür. lebb
) 307

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
2
Hr. Webb in a reoent statement to the Senate Fimanee
Committee indicated that the Army Department is asiing fer
$275 million for this program (Tab C). His testimomy as to
"Other Foreign Aid" proposed totals $1,150 million.
The Army's proposed program has been submitted by State
to the National Advisory Council, by agreement with Army.
C. Discussion:
In the circumstances, it seems necessary either:
(a) to inform ir. Koyall of the indication given
Mr. ebb and that the State Department cannot support
the full 275 million, or
(b) to inform ir. ebb that the State Department
regards the request for 275 million as appropriate and
the total of S1,150 million to which it would bring the
estimated figure for "Other Foreign Aid" as within the
qualifications on the tentative l billion figure given
r. Webb and Senator Vandenberg. Thereafter, to send
the attached letter to r. Royall (Tab D), assuring him
that State will support the request in the National
Advisory Council hearing but will wish to consider the
conclusions of the members of NAC before giving assurance
of support of any specific figure in later proceedings.
It is believed that the Army's requested program is reasonable
and the total figure of 1,l50 million reached by putting the Army'
program at 275 million is rdthin the qualified statment ontained
in the letter to Senator Vandenberg and the expressions made to
Ir. ebb. However, State should retain the right to consider the
views of NAc before concluding on its later position.
D. Recommendations:
Alternative (b) above is recoamended.
II. It is recommended that this letter also clarify the situation on the
enabling legislation needed to authorize the proposed appropriation.
Two varsions of an enabling bill have been submitted with full
State, Army and Bureau of the Budget concurrence, the later one
containing provisions advanced by State as necessary for its admini-
stration of Germany upon transfer and for post-occupation aid to
Korea. The Department of the Army has introduced two bills entirely
without

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.98)
without raference to State and omitting the provisions regarded
as important by State. It is imperative that this confased
situation be clarified at once. A re-draft bill containing all
provisions desired by State and with a preamble requested by
Hr. Vorys is attached, at Tab E. Mr. Royall has informed me
through General Noce that he agrees to its submission and will
support it.
Charles. Saltsman
OPPClaxton:br
OE
E
NA
L
ihitmanood
Allison Gross
Bohlen
(approved in draft - see attached blue shests)

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.85)
ocrotar
ubject:
ecrutary oye 1's equest for -upport of
 r.ant' 275 11lion hab1lition
20.
reply . e I' jusst or aasurance of unqualiried
t at sp  llion y par
 llittion pro ra fc an,ore une the u.
Ecty:
is, ropre. i: ror the ifteer anths' pariod, April 1, 1948
to une , 1949, ani cover: the occupied areas of Japan (.180
ilion, ho ws  llon, and  (.75 lon). The
tate jart t s utrony favored a rehabilitation progem of
tiis kine for these uroue. r. reper has disguesed this progrem
a oft  
art art ropresentutives ! ve worked closaly with the Arey on
the supportin aterial. lis written justification for the progrem
 subetit ially prrd  tate partent officere. Although
no written cocitment has ever been iven the Army epartment on
articular fi re, it haeon gonarally understood through all
these discussions that tat would support the program and the re
questeu ri ures, suoject to thie resarvution that State cannet
dafand in datail certuin fi wres in the basic statistical justiri-
cation vhic was propared b they opartment.
In the letter fro bestsior ou las to enator Vandemberg
(lab ) this program was ls toi in tle figure or 1 billion for
"ther orei Aid". lthu   understand that the basie of the
 billion was discussad with . abb by bureel and others, I do
not now that it has ever boer disc ssed with Arey offiodels. The
propamm for 1d to hina(570 llion), (reourkey (275 llien).
Trleate ( llion,  intorimarican (.10 million) total 875
million. his leaves 125 llion for the Ary progrem. his is
probably shat now concar . oyall. ..e may also be caneerned
by the fuct tiat r. hlan's lotter to r. aton, though reforring
to the Any'e o ram, dooe not place a figure on it (Tab B, p. 4).
5。b

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.97)
2
Mr. Webb in a recent statement to the Senate Finanse
Committes indicated that the Army Department is asiing for
$275 million for this program (Tab C). His testimesy as to
"Other Foreign Aid" proposed totals $1,150 million.
The Army's proposed program has been submitted by State
to the National Advisory Council, by agreement with Army.
C. Dieguegion:
In the circumstances, it seems necessary either:
(a) To inform Mr. Royall of the indication given
:ir. ebb and that the State Department cannot support
the full 275 million, or
(b) To inform ir. ebb that the State Department
regards the request for $275 million as appropriate and
the total of 1,150 million to which it would bring the
estimated figure for "Other Foreign Aid" as within the
qualifications on the tentative $1 billion figure given
r. ebb and Senator Vandemberg. Thereafter, to send
the attached letter to Ur. Royall (Tab D), assuring him
that State will support the request in the National
Advisory Council hearing but will wish to oonsider the
conclusions of the members of NAC before giving assurance
of support of any specific figure in later proceedings.
It is believed that the Army's requested program is reasonable
and the total figure of 1,150 million reached by putting the Army's
program at 275 million is within the qualified statement contained
in the letter to Senator Vandenberg and the expressions made to
r. Tebb. However, State should retain the right to consider the
views of NAC before concluding on its later position.
D. Recommendation:
Alternative (b) above is recommended.
II. It is suggested that you use this opportunity to take up the follow-
ing matter with r. Royall:
The Army's request for an appropriation of $275 million for
P
rehabilitation depends upon adoption of enabling legislation
(Tab E) now before the Congress, proposed by the Army Department
with the support ef the State Department. The State Department
has proposed certain amendments to this enabling legislation,
shown by undenecoring on Tab E. These amendments are to provide
necessary

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
to carry out in Germany cartain functions performed by the
Aray Department for which it alone has Legialative antherity
and (b) for temporary continustlon of aid to Kores uatil the
new Congress meets in Januaxy in the contingeney thst the
U. S. withdrams it occupatton foroes from Koree this fall.
Mr. Draper has expressed a willingness to allow the inelasion
of these amendments in the proposed enabling legislation. However,
he is understood to inaist that the Arzy Department will defend
only the basic legfalation and will leave the defense of the
amendments to State indicating only that Army accepts and sapports
them. This would hate the effect of spot-lighting the "take-over"
provisions and place the burden on State of dafending them on an
independent basis. It is recommended, therefore, that you peins
out to ir. Royall that this bill should be treated as one admini-
stration bill, that the amendments are essential to the Army's
ultimate transfer of Gerpan administration and that you request
ir. Royall that the Army
in its congressional testimony, support
the entire bill, includin
the amendments, leaving the State
Department, of course, to
pplain the individual provisions in
detail.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
for Occupied Areas
e7n
O:PPClaxton:br
NA
C
"r. hitman r. ood
ür. Allison Mr. Bohlen
(See attached blue sheet)

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
S - Mr. Secretary
Subject: Secretary loyall's Request for Support of
Army Department's 275 Million Rehabilitation
Program.
I. ir. oyall has asked assurance of unqualified State Department
Support of the 275 million Aray Department's rehabilitation program
for Japan, Korea and the Ryukus.
This program is for the fifteen months' period, April 1, 1948 to
June 30, 1949, and covers the occupied areas of Japan (180 million),
the Ruykus (20 million) and Korea (75 million). The State Department
has strongly favored a rehabilitation program of this kind for these
areas. ir. Draper has discussed this program a number of times with
Lr. Lovett and r. Saltzman. State Department representatives have
worked closely with the Army on the supporting material. The written
justification for the program was substantially prepared by State De-
partment officers. Although no written commitment has ever been given
the Army Department on a particular figure, it has been generally under
stood through all these discussions that State would support the program
and the requested figures, subject to the reservation that State cannot
defend in detail certain figures in the basic statistical justification
which was prepared by the Army Departnent.
In the letter from Ambassador Douglas to Senator Vandenberg (Tab A)
this program was lumped in the figure of $1 billion for "Other Foreign
Aid". Although I understand that the basis of the l billion as dis
cussed with Mr. ebb by yourself and others, I do not kmow that it has
ever been discussed with Army officials. The programs for aid to
China (6570 million), Greece-Turkey (275 million), Trieste ($20 million)
and Inter-American (10 million) total 875 million. This leaves $125
million for the Army program. This is probably what now coneerns
Mr. Royall. He may also be concerned by the fact that Mr. Behlem's
letter to ir. Eaton, though referring to the Army's program, does not
place a figure on it (Tab B, p.4).
In the circumstances, it seems necessary either:
(a) to inform lir. Royall of the indication given r. Webb
and that the State Department cannot support the full
275 million, or
(b) to inform

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.96)
sutject to the reservotion
that stee cannat defeard
-2-
It is recommended that Secretar woyail be informed that State
will give unqualified support  uce Army's program but-that our
ecenomio-officcre heve sor .cssrvations es te whethur the total
figure for cedh aree cr ty rally oupporbed by the kray s justifying
II. It is suggested that you use this opportunity to take up the
follordng matter with r. Royall:
The Army's request for an appropriation of $275,000,000 for
rehabilitation depends upon adoption of enabling legislation (Tab C)
now before the Congress, proposed by the Army Department with the support
of the State Departmant. The State Department has proposed certain amend-
ments to this enabling legialation, shom by undersooring on Tab C.
These amendments are to provide necessary legislative authority for (a)
the State Department to carry out in Germany certain functions performed
by the Army Department for which it alone has legislative authority and
(b) for temporary continuation of aid to Koren until the new Congress
meets in January in the contingency that the U. S. withdraws its ocoups-
tion forces from Korea this fall.
Mr. Draper has expressed a willingness to allow the inclusion of
these amendments in the proposed enabling legislation. However, he is
understood to insist that the Army Department will defend only the basio
legialation and will leave the defense of the amendments to State, indi-
cating only that Army accepts and supports them. This would have the
affect of spot-lighting the "take-over" provisions and place the burden
on State of defending them on an independent basis. It is recommended,
therefore, that you point out to r. Royall that this bill should be
treated as one administration bill, that the amendments are essential to
the Army's transfer of German administration and that you request
Yr. Royall that the Army, in its Congressional testimony, support the
entire bill, including the amendments, leaving the State Department, of
course, to explain the individual provisions in detail.
Frank G. Wisner
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
for Occupied Areas
O:PPClaxton:br
OE
OFD
E
NA
FE
C

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
(b)
to inform hr. Webb that the final figure for the
requested programs grouped under "Other Foreign Aid"
is 1,150 cillion, and inform Mr. Royall that State
will support the Arny request but with the reserve-
tion that State cannot defend in detail certain
figures in the basic justification prepared by the
Aray Department.
It is believed that the final total figure of $1,150 million is ithin
the qualified statement contained in the letter to Senator Vandenberg.
Therefore, alternative (b) above is recommended.
II. It is su gested that you use this opportunity to take up the follow-
ing matter with r. toyall.
The Army's request for an appropriation of $275 million for rehabili-
tation depends upon adoption of enabling legialation (Tab C) now before
the Congress, proposed by the Aray vepartment with the support of the
State epartment. The State Department has proposed certain amendments
to this enabling l.egislation, showm by underscoring on Tab C. These
amendments are to provide nocessary legialative authority for (a) the
State Department to carry out in Germany certain functions performed by
the Army Department for which it alone has legislative authority and
(b) for temporary continuation of aid to Korea until the new Congress
meets in January in the contingency that the U. S. withdraws it oceupe-
tion forces from Korea this fall.
Lir. Draper has expressed a willingness to allow the inclusion of
these amendments in the proposed enabling legislation. However, he is
understood to insist that the Army Department will defend only the basde
legislation and will leave the deferse of the amendments to State, indi-
cating only that Army accepts and supports them. This would have the
effect of spot-lighting the "take-over" provisions and place the burden
on State of defending them on an independent basis. It is recommended,
therefore, that you point out to ir. Royall that this bill should be
treated as one administration bill, that the amendmenta are essential to
the Army's transfer of German administration and that you request
Mr. Royall that the Army, in its Congressional testimony, support the
entire bill, including the amendments, leaving the State Department, of
course, to explain the individual provisions in detail.
Frank G. isner
Deputy to the Assistant Secretary
for Occupiod Areas
R/
92
O:PPClaxton:br
OE
OFD
E
FE
C
3/13/48

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.96)
-3
Germany certain functions performed by the Army Department fer
which it alone has legialative authority and (b) for temperery
continuation of aid to Koree until the new Congress meets in
January in the contingeney that the U. S. withdrams it cseups-
tion foroes from Korea this fall.
Mr. Draper has expressed a willingness to allow the inalusion
of these amendments in the proposed enabling legialation. However,
he is understood to insist that the Army Department will dafend
only the basic legislation and will leave the defense of the amend-
ments to State, indicating only that Army accepts and supports them.
This would have the affect of spot-lighting the "take-over" pro-
visions and place the burden on State of defending them on an
independent basis. It is recommended, therefore, that you poist
out to Ar. Royall that this bill ahould be treated as ome admind-
stration bill, that the amendments are essential to the Army's altimate
transfer of German administration and that you request Mr. Royall
that the Army, in its congressional testimony, support the entire
bill, including the amendments, leaving the State Department, of
course, to explain the individual provizions in detail.
a lettert th: seple  ittarted.
Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary
for Occupied Areas
O
O:PPClaxton/br
OE
D
C
orb
3/23/48

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.96)
48
APt
Dear Ken:
XR
894.50/4-648
At your recent conference with Secretary Marahall you requested
an assurance that the Department of State vill give unqualified
support to the epartment of the Army's request for the appropriation
895.50
of 275 million for rehabilitation in Japan, Korea and the Ryukus.
In the discussions which have been held between representatives
of the two Departments on this progran it hae been generally understood
that the Depart ent of tate ill support the Ary's program and the
requested figures, subject to the reservation that the Department of
State cannot defend in detail certain figures in the basic statistical
justification which was prepared by the Army Department. The Army'
proposed pro ram has now been presented to the National Advisory Counail
for consideration pursuant to its responsibilities regarding foreim
aid programs. This action wus taken after consultation with the Civil
Affairs Division of the Department of the Aray and is consistent with
procedures agreed on sometime ago with ccretary atterson for such
areas.
The Departmant of tate is supporting the Army Department's full
request before the Nationai navisory Council, subject to the same
reservation that it cannot defend in detail certain figures in the basio
justification. The epart ent of tate is in fundamental agreement with
the bepart ent of the ray as to the desirability of programs of this
CS/A
nature in each of these areas nd vil! continue to support them in later
proceedings. It will be necessary, however, to consider the conelusions
of the members of the ational Aavicory Council befors giving assurance
of support of any specific figure in sucl: later proceedings.
I believe that it is inperative that the situation regarding the
enabling legislation for this pro ram be clarified et once.
As you are aware, there are severel dilferent bills before the House
Foreign Affairs Comittee and the Jenate Armed Services Committee. The
original bill (. 2035) and th: later Title V of the House Omnibus Bill
were submitted with full Aray, State and Bureau of the Budget conourrence.
Two bille
A
4-648
129/5
The Honorable
Kenneth C. Royall,
Secretary of the Army.

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.96)
2
Later two bills were submitted by the Departaent of the Aray witheet
consultation with this Departaest and omitted eertain previsiems regarded
by it as eseential in the cireumstances. It was my feeling thet umes
ordinsted astion of this kind might tend to give the impressdem thet the
Administratiom as a mhele is nst in agreemest en the meed of this legiale-
tien. However, following your recent agreement givem to Mr. Saltamen
through General Noce to support & single bill (attaehed), this misappre-
hension has been corrected.
With respect to its submission and explanation to the apprepriate
Congressional Committees, I suggest that representatives of the Department
of the Army join at once with representatives of this Departmest te disesss
with Congressional leaders the best strategy for the earliest handling
of this bill and that it be introduced in both Houses as an Administratiem
bill as soon as a program is agreed on. I have asked Mr. Sratsman to
pursue this matter and suggest your representative gst in toush with him.
A few minor changes have been made in the draft bill to conform with
ideas expressed by Mr. Vorys. These have been discussed with Aray Depart-
ment representatives. The only one of significance is & proviso at the
end of Section 7 providing for coordination with the Economie Corporatiom
Administrator. Would you please advise Mr. Saltsman or me if the Depart-
ment of the Army has objection to any of these minor changes?
Very sincerely yours,
Robert A. Lovett
Acting Secretary of State
8 1948
Encl.
Draft Bill
APR
0:rPclaxton:br
4/1-7/48
NA
0
L
..hitman ..ood Allison Bohlen
Saltzman
Gross
(see attached blue sheets)

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.94)
Later tere bille were subaedtted by the Department of the Aray altbost
eonsaltatien with thls Department and cnitted eertain previalone regarded
by it as essential in the aireumestanses. It was ay feeling thet unse-
endinated estion of this kind sight tend to give the ispressien that the
Aéminietratien as a whale is not in agreemant en the meed af this Legisle-
tien. However, following your recent agreement given to Mr. Saltamem
through General Noce to suppert a single bill (atteahed), this
mdsapprehension has been corrected.
hith respeet to its submission and explanatien to the appropriate
Congreesional Committess, I suggest that representatives of the Department
of the Aray join at once with representatives of this Department to diseuss
with Congressional leaders the best strategy for the earliest handling
af this bill and that it be introduced in both Houses as an Administratien
bill as soon as a program is agreed on. I have asked Mr. Saltaman to
pursue this matter and muggest your representative get ir touch with him.
A few minor shanges have been made in the draft bill to conform with
ideas expressed by Mr. Vorys. These have been dissussed with Army Depart-
ment representatives. The only one of signifioance is a proviso at the
end of Section 7 providing fer coordination with the Economic Cooperetien
Adainistrator. sould you please advise Mr. Saltzman or me if the Depert-
ment of the Army has objeetion to any of these miner changes?
Very sineerely yours,
Robert A. Lovett
Under Secretary of State
Enel.
Draft bill
ch
0: PPClaxton:br;:jh
OF
E
A
C
0
L
4/1-6/48
Whitman Wood
Allison Pohlen
Saltzman
6100/7
(see attached blue sheets)

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Two bills were submitted by the Department of the Aruy without eos-
currence by this Department and omitted certain previsioms regarded
by it as essential. This uncoordinated action is regrettable sinse
it has tended to give the impression that the Administratien is mot
in agreement on the need of this legialation.
Following your agreement given to Mr. Saltsman through General Moce
to support a single bill (attached), this misapprehension has been cor-
rected. However, strategy on congrussional handling of the agreed bill
has not been worked out and it has not yet been introduced. I saggest
that representatives of the Department of the Army join at onee with
representatives of this Department to discuss with congressional leaders
the best strategy for the earliest handling of this bill and that it be
introduced in both Houses as an Administration bill as soon as this
strategy is agreed on. I have asked ür. Saltsman to pursue this matter
and suggest your representative get in touch wdth him.
A few minor changes have been made in the draft bill to conform with
ideas expressed by ir. Vorys. These have been discussed with Army Depart-
ment representatives. The only one of significance is a proviso at the
end of Section 7 providing for coordination with the Economic Cooperation
Administrator. ould you please advise kir. Saltsman or m if the Depart-
ment of the Army has objection to any of these minor changes?
Very sincerely yours,
Robert A. Lovett
Under Secretary of State
Encl.
Goond/pr
Draft Bill
C:r Pclaxton:br
O
NA
0
4/1/48
..hitman
..ood
Allison
Bohlen
saltzman
(see attached blue sheets)

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.95)
omon
x
administer programe of the proposed law in
any occupled ares. The immediate parpose of
these amendments is, of courss, to provide
authority to the Department of State to carry
upon
out in Germany oertain funations performed by
eventral
the Amy Department for which it alene has
travsfer
legislative authority;
(b) To provide for temporary continuation of aid to
the occupied area upon withdramal of occupation
forces. This is to covar the contingency that
the U. S. should withdraw its occupation foroes
from Korea this fall at a time when Congress mmy
not be in session.
I understand that the Army Department, although in agreement with
these proposed amendmants and willing to state to the Congress its
support of them, desires in its presentation to the interested congres-
sional committees to defend only the basic legialation, leaving the
defense of the amendments to representatives of the Department of
State. I believe it would be desirable if the Department of the Army
in its presentation could treat this bill, including the proposed
amendments, as a unit. This procedure seems appropriate not only as
a general matter of presentation of bills as coming from the Admini-
stration rather than from individual departments, but particularly
since the amendments are essential to the Army's transfer of responsi-
bility for the administration of Germany.
I would agre that/it would be quite proper for Army Department
representatves, in addition to their testimony in favor of the basic
bill, to dofend the individual proposals advanced by this Department.
Yill you kindly let me know whether the Department of the Army
can adopt the course I suggest?
Faithfully,
C:PPClaxton/br
3/23/48
CTw

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.97)
Dear toyl:
At bu recent conference you requested an assurance that
the Department of State will give unqualified support to the
Department of the Army's request for the appropriation of $275
million for rehabilitation in Japan, Korea and the Ryukus.
In the discussions which have been held between representa-
tives of the two Departments on this program it has bean generally
understood that the Department of State will support the Aray'
program and the requested figures, subject to the reservation that
the Department of State cannot defend in detail certain figures in
the basic statistical justification which was prepared by the Army
Departmant. The Army's proposed program has now been presented to
the National Advisory Council for consideration pursuant to its
responsibilities regarding foreign aid programs. This action was
taken after consultation with the Civil Affairs Division of the
Department of the Aray and is consistent with procedures agreed an
some time ago with Secretary Patterson for such cases.
The Dopartment of State witi support the Army Department'
full request before the National Advisory Council, subject to the
same reservation that it cannot defand in detail certain figures
in the basic justification. The Department of State is in funde-
mental agreement with the Department of the Army as to the
desirability of programs of this nature in each of these areas and
will continue to support them in later proceedings. It will be
necessary, however, to consider the conclusions of the members of
the Mational Advisory Council bafore giving assurance of support
of any specific figure in such later proceedings.
You are no doubt acquainted with the several amendments to the
(13
enabling legislation now bafore the Congress. This enabling legi-
lation, upon the adop ion of which the proposed appropriation will
depend, was proposed by the Army Department and submitted to the
Bureau of the Budgef with the support of the Department of State.
The amendments proposed by State have been approved by Army. They
are for two general purposes:
(a) To
The ilonorable
Kenneth C. Royall,
Secretary of the Army.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
2
(a) To allow any government ageney, other than Arzy,
to which responsibility should be assigned, to
administer provisions of the proposed law in any
occupied aree. The immediate purpose of these
amendmants ia, of course, to provide authority to
the Department of State to carry out in Germany
upon eventual transfer certain functions performed
by the Army Department for whioh it alone has
legialative authority;
(b) To provide for temporary continuation of aid to
an occupied area upon withdrawal of occupation
forces. This is to cover the contingeney that
the U. S. should withdraw its oceupation forces.
from Korea thie fall at a time when Congress may
not be in sepsion.
I understand that the Army Departmant, although in agreement with
these proposed amendmnts and willing to state to the Congress its
support of them, destres in its presentation to the interested congres-
sional committees to defend only the basic legislation, leaving the
defense of the amendments to representatives of the Department of
State. I believe it would be desirable in the Department of the Army
in its presentation could treat this bill, Ineluding the proposed
amendments, as a unit. This procedure seems appropriate not only as
a general matter of presentation of bills as goming from the Admini-
stration rathey than from individual departments, but particularly
since the amentments are essential to the Army's eventual transfer of
responsibility for the administration of Germany)
Will you kindly let me know whether the Departwent of the Army
can adopt the course I suggest?
\Faithfully yours,
Clys
: Preuxton:br
 CTW
3/24/48
OE
NA
C
(Mr. hitman) (r. ood) (Mr. Allison) (r. sohlen)
(See attighed ulue sheet)

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
Two bills were submitted by the Department of the Aray witheet ess-
currence by this Department and omitted certain provisions regarded
by it as essential. This uncoordinated action is regrettable simss
it has tended to give the impression that the Adninistration is not
in agreement on the need of this legialation.
Following your agreement given to Mr. Saltsman through General
Noce to support a single bill (attached), this misapprehension has
been corrected. However, strategy on congressional handling of the
agreed bill has not been worked out and it has not yet been introdused.
I suggest that representatives of the Department of the Army join at
onee with representatives of this Department to dsouss with congres-
sional leader's the best strategy for the earliest handling of this
bill and that it be introduced in both Houses as an Administration bill
as soon as this strategy is agreed on. I have asked r. Saltsman to
puraue this matter and suggest your representative get in touch dth
him.
Very sincerely yours,
Robert A. Lovett
Under Secretary of State
Enal.
Draft Bill
O:PrClaxton:br
OE
3
NA
C
0
4/1/48
hitman
..ood
Allison Bohlen
altzman
Grorm/Re
(see attached blue sheets)

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.97)
FAR EASTERN COMMISSION
2516 MASSACHUSETTS AVENUE, N. W.
WASHINGTON 8. D. C.
April 9, 1948
My dear Mr. Secretary:
894.50/4-948
I enclose a copy of a statement which was read by the Delegate
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the meeting of the
Far Eastern Commission held on April 8, 1948. In this statement
the Soviet Delegate refers to the statement made by the United
States Government on January 21, 1948 to the effect that it would
从
be necessary to work out new measures for the establishment of a
self-supporting economy in Japan. He urges that sufficient time
89430
has elapsed since January 21, 1948 for plans to have been made and
submitted to the Far Eastern Commission for its consideration, but
that no plans have been made available to the Far Eastern Commission.
The Soviet Delegate stresses the fact that while no plans have been
proposed by the United States to the Commission, the United States
press has again and again contained articles which "refer to the
fact that the United States Government is working out its policy in
regard to reconstruction of the Japanese industry and is planning
the allotment of certain credits for this purpose . . ." The Soviet
Delegate claims that all of this has for its purpose unilateral
action by the United States Government and evasion of the responsi-
bilities of the Far Eastern Commission. On a separate sheet enclosed
there is given a chronological sequence of Far Eastern Commission
papers in regard to this matter.
I am persuaded that the statements made by the Soviet Repre-
sentative are in a sense based on a misunderstanding of the actual
situation, and I feel that the Department will wish to consider the
statement of the Soviet Representative in the light of its state-
ment of January 21, 1948 and against the background of newspaper
C
articles since that date in the preparation of information which I
S
might use for the benefit of the whole Commission.
V
Respectfully submitted
Frrawte weeo
Frank R. McCoy
Enclosures (5)
MAY19
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
D
Washington 25, D. C.
Ana!
Rei
Cat
Dist

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF FAR EASTERN COMMISSION PAPERS
RELATING TO UNITED STATES PROPOSALS
FOR ECCNOMIC REHABILITATION IN JAPAN AND SOVIET REACTION THERETO
1. FEC-292. Subject: United States Statement on the Economy of Japan
This document is a statement based on a statement given to the
press by the Department of State on Jamuary 21, 1948. This state-
ment was read to the members of the Far Eastern Commission by the
American Delegate on January 21, 1948.
2. FEC-298. Subject: Soviet Proposal Concerning Planned Credits for
the Reconstruction of Japanese Industry
This document was submitted to the Far Eastern Commission on
February 24, 1948 for consideration by the Far Eastern Commission
at its meeting on February 26, 1948. In this document the Soviet
Delegate quotes an item taken from a Chinese Central News report
from Japan which refers to the United States statement on the economy
of Japan (cf. Item 1). The Chinese news report alleges that the
United States is preparing to devote certain sums of money for
industrial reconstruction in Japan. The Soviet Delegation asks for
information as to what investments the United States has made in the
period 1945-47 for the purpose of reconstruction of Japanese industry.
3. FEC-298/1. Subject: United States Statement in Reply to Soviet
Questions Concerning Reconstruction of Japanese Industry
This document.is a statement made by the United States Repre-
sentative to the Far Eastern Commission on March 4, 1948 in reply to
the questions raised by the Soviet Delegation in FEC-298 (cf. Item 2).
4. FEC-298/2. Subject: Soviet Statement Concerning Planned Credits for
the Reconstruction of Japanese Industry
This document is a statement made by the Soviet Delegate to the
Far Eastern Commission at its meeting on April 8, 1948. This is the
document which is being brought to the attention of the Secretary of
State for possible reply. In this statement the Soviet Representa-
tive states his opinion that sufficient time has now elapsed for the
completion and presentation to the Far Eastern Commission of the plans
forecast by the United States statement of January 21, 1948. He com-
plains that no plans have been submitted, and indicates by reference
to further articles in the press that apparently the United States is
proceeding with its plans for reconstruction of Japanese industry and
the allotment of credits without reference to the Far Eastern Commis-
sion. Specific reference is made to articles appearing in the "New
York Herald Tribune" and "PM" of April 7, 1948.

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTIAL
May 6, 1948
894.50/4-948
FILB DIR
MEMORANDUM FOR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR RASTERN COMMISSION.
In reference to your letter of April 9, 1948 to
the Secretary of State concerning a statement of the
Soviet representative on the Far Eastern Commission
presented at the meeting on April 8, 1948, I am enolos-
ing a proposed reply for your use in the Commission.
1.1
B2
Charles E. Saltsman
CS/V
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
Proposed Reply to
F
Soviet representative.
50
DCR HA Unit
7
CONFIDENTIAL
Annl.
f
Cat.
Dist.
cas
9n
Ar
6170p2
FE:HBorton:fhh L
mo
. Pain
4/28/48
HB

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
STATEMENT BY U.S. MDABER. FEC. CONCERNING PLANS
FOR JAPANEBE BRP-SUPPORT
On Apr1l 8, 1948, the Soviet representative on the
FEC made a statement, cireulated as FmC 298/2 coneerming
planned credits for the reconstruction of Japanese indus-
try. The statement conoluded that "the Soviet Delegation
considers it necessary to state, in order to make clear
that without the polioy decision of the Far Eastern Com-
mission on the question of the reconstruotion of Japanese
industry no other unilateral decisions and aotions could
be considered legal".
I have been inetructed by my Government to state
that it 1s of the opinion that no Far Eastern Commission
policy precludes the Suprome Commander for the Allied
Fowers from aseisting Japan in its exeroise of the right
to have peaceful industries adequate for its self-support.
On the contrary, the Fotsdam Deolaration assures Japan
the right to a self-sustaining economy. Polioy deoisions
of the Far Eastern Commission reenforoe that assuranee.
For example, the Interim Import-Export Polioy for
Japan, approved by the FEC on August 18, 1947 states in
paragraph 9 and 10:
"For the purposes of this paper imports are
divided into the following three categories:
"a. Imports received to prevent suoh wide-
spread disease and unrest as would endanger the
occupying forces;
"b. Imports required to accomplish the
objeotives of the ocoupation;
"a. Other 1mports requested by the Japanese
Government.
"For the time being import programs under cate-
gories 9  and b are authorized subject to avail-
ability of 1tems and funds and such other limita-
tions as may be operative..."
In the above quoted policy decision of the Far Eastern
Commisslon, the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
1.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2
1s authorised, within limitations of other contrelling
polieies, and more particularly withim the limits of
available funds and items, to arrange imports with Japan
to accomplish the objeetives of the oceupation. The
attainment of Japanese self-support elearly is eme ef
such objeotives. In the past Japan's shortage of funds
and needed items has held Japanese industrial output te
less than 50% of the 1930-34 level and exports to less
than 25% of those required to make Japan self-supporting.
The U.8. announeement to the Commission on January 2l,
1948, to whiah the Soviet statement referred, states
the intention of the U.s. to assist in removing that
obstaele to self-support.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.96)
May 6, 1948
Ia reply refer to
CONFIDENTIAL
FE
MEMORANDOM FOR THE UNITED STATRS EMBER,
FAR KASTERN COMMISSION.
In reference to your letter of April 9, 1948 to
the Secretary of State concerning a statement of the
Soviet representative on the Far castern Commission
presented at the meeting on April 8, 1948, I a enelos-
ing a proposed reply for your use in the Commissien.
(sgn) Okarlee &. Saltyman
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
Enclosure:
 of
the sed orig.
Proposed Reply to
wal Br
Soviet representative.
CONFIDENTIAL
FE:HBerton:fhh
OR
NA
FE
4/28/48

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
STATENENT BY U.S B. FEG. CONCERI PL
ZOAPHREPPOR
On April 8, 1948, the Soviet represeatative ee the
FEC made à statement, cireulated as VEC 298/2 esmesrains
try. The statement concluded that "the Seviet Delegatiem
considers it necessary to state, in order te make elear
that without the poliey decision of the Far Basterm Cem-
mission on the question of the reeonstrustiom of Japemese
industry no other unilateral decisions and actions ceald
be considered legal".
I have been instructed by my Government to state that
it is of the opinion that no Par Sastern poliey preeludes
the occupying authorities from assisting Japan in its
exercise of the right to have peaceful industries adequate
for its self-support. On the contrary, the Potsdem Dee-
laration assures Japan the right to a self-sustaining
economy. Policy decisions of the Far Eastern Cemmission
reenforce that assurance.
For example, the Interim Import-Expert Poliey for
Japan, approved by the F8C on August 18, 1947 states in
paragraph 9 and 10:
"For the purposes of this paper imports are
divided into the following three categories:
required
". Imports reeeived to prevent sueh wide-
spread disease and unrest as would endanger the
occupying forces;
"b. Imports required to accomplish the
objeetives of the occupation;
"s. Other imports requested by the Japanese
Government.
"For the tixe being import programs under eate-
gories 9 a and b are authorized subject to avail-
ability of items and funds and such other limita-
tions as may be operative..."
In the above quoted policy decision of the Far Bastern
Commission, the supreme Commander for the Allied Fowers
1s
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
is authorised, within limitations of other eeatrelling
pelisies, and more partieularly within the Aimits ef
available funds and items, to arrange laperts with Japes
to acsomplish the objectives of the oegupatiem. The
attainment of Japanese self-support elearly is ome of
such objectives. In the past Japan's shertage ef funes
and needed items has held Japanese Industrial outpat to
less than 50% of the 1930-34 level and experts te less
than 25% of those required to make Japan self-supperting.
The U.S. announcement to the Comaission on Janmary 21
1948, to which the Soviet statement referred, states the
intention of the D.S. to assist in removing that obstaele
to self-support.
885

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
US STATENENT CONCERNING US PLANS FOR JAPANESE SELP-SUPPORT
On April 8, the Soviet representative on the Fmc mmde a
statement, circulated as PEC 298/2, w1th respect to actions
being taken by the Us with the object of creating a self-
supporting economy in Japan. The statement refers to the
remarks of the US of the US representative on January 21,
1948 and takes the pos1tion that plans made by the US Govern-
ment for the self-support of Japan are an evasion of the pre-
rogatives of the FEC.
I would like to point out that my statement of January 21,
announced to the FEC as a matter of information that "... the
Us Government will shortly begin discussions in the Congress
of a proposal to provide funds for the fiscal year l949, in
addition to funds requested for subsistence items, for the
procurement of such imports as industrial raw materials and
spare parts to assist Japan to expand the output of its peace-
ful industries toward a status of self-support."
The US Government has been proceeding exactly as the
Commission was informed.
No Par Eastern policy precludes the occupying authorities
from assisting Japan in its exercise of the right to have
peaceful industries adequate for its self-support. That right
was promised by the Potsdam Declaration. The Far Eastern
Commission respects that right.
For example, the Interim Import-Export Policy for Japan,
approved by the PBC on August 18, 1947 states 1n paragraphs 9
and 10:
"For the purposes of this paper imports are divided
into the following three categories:
". Imports require to prevent such widespread
X
disease and unrest as would endanger the occupying forees;
"b. Imports required to accomplish the objectives
of the occupation;
"o. other

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
"c. Other imports requested by the Japanese
Government.
"For the time being import programs under cate-
gories 9 a and b are authorised subject to availability
of items and funds and such other limitations as mmy be
operative..."
The attainment of Japanese self-support clearly is one
of the objectives of the ocoupation. The SCAp is authorised
by existing policy to achieve that objective within limita-
tion of other controlling policies, and more particularly
within the limits of available funds and items. In the past
Japan's shortage of funds and needed items has held Japanese
1ndustrial output to less than 50% of the 1930-34 level and
exports to less than 25% of those required to mke Japan self-
supporting. The US program announced to the Commission on
January 21, 1s a program designed to assisting in removing
that obstacle to self-support.
The Us hopes that other governments will consider it to
their advantage to extend credits or make grants by which Japan
may procure raw mterials from other parts of the world. The
Indian Government in advancing raw cotton, for example, has
worked out an arrangement beneficial both to India and Japan.
In stating that the US Government would in the future pre-
sent policies to the Commission which would assist in Japanese
self-support, the US had in mind introduction in the FEC of
proposals such as that which provides for Travel of Japanese
Abroed (FBC 293). 0ther statements of a similar nature will
01r
be proposed in the future.
nE

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.81)
4/15/
Calles Whitn
who will sd
drapt reply on 4/19/4s.
Riplis cdhafted Y
sut on to me

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.76)
ahil
HB-c
OE a..d NA
cy diaf
afossbl
stato.t. then
I'd lke t. see't
77W
2992

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.86)
Dr. Blaboslee
H0 3660

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
any con
NB
To: FE - Mr. Butterworth
DATE: April 12, 1948
FRoM : 0 - Mr. Claxton
SUBJECT: Attached File
There is attached a copy of a letter which General McCoy
handed to Mr. Saltzman on Friday afternoon, April 9th. It re-
fers to the statement read by the USSR member at a FEC meeting
on April 8th.- FFC /8/2.
lÁr. Saltzman would appreciate having your views as to the
M
implications of this statement in terms of the attitudes of
other members of the FEC and your recommendations as to what
action, if any, should be taken regarding the statement.
Att.
cc: OE - Mr. Martin
L/P - Gen. Snow
DCR Unit
Anal. ...
Rev.
Cat.
Dist.

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.97)
FB - Mr. Buttorworth
April 12, 1948
O - Mr. Claxtom
Attached File
There is attached a copy of a letter which Gemeral MeCey
handed to Mr. Saltsman on Friday afternoon, April 9th. It re-
fers to the statement read by the USSR member at a FEC mesting
on April 8th.
Mr. Saltsman would appreciate having your views as to the
implications of this statement in terms of the attitudes of
other members of the FEC and your recommendations as to what
action, if any, should be taken regarding the statememt.
FW 894.50
Att.
co: OE - Mr. Martin
L/P - Gen. Snow
4948
DCR-ITP U
Anal.
Rev.
at.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
EQPI
April 9, 1948
Dear Mr. Secretary:
I analose a copy of a statement which was read by the Delegate
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republies at the mesting of the
Far Eastern Commission held on April 8, 1948. In this statement the
Soviet Delegate refers to the statement made by the United States
Government on January 21, 1948 to the effect that it would be
necessary to work out new measures for the establishment of a self-
supporting economy in Japan. He urges that sufficient time has
elapsed since January 21, 1948 for plans to have been made and
submitted to the Far Eastern Commission for its consideration, but
that no plans have been made available to the Far Kastern Cemmissien.
The Soviet Delegate stresses the fact that while no plans have beem
proposed by the United States to the Commission, the United States
press has again and again contained articles whieh "refer to the
fact that the United States Government is working out its peliey in
regard to reconstruction of the Japanese industry and is planming
the allotment of certain credits for this purpose . . ." The Seviet
Delegate claims that all of this has for its purpose unilateral
action by the United States Government and evasion of the respomsi-
bilities of the Far Eastern Commission. On a separate sheet emelosed
there is given a chronological sequence of Far Eastern Commisaion
papers in regard to this matter.
I am persuaded that the statements made by the Soviet Repre-
sentative are in a sense based on a misunderstanding of the actual
situation, and I feel that the Department will wish to consider the
statement of the Soviet Representative in the light of its state-
ment of January 21, 1948 and against the background of newspaper
articles since that date in the preparation of information which I
might use for the benefit of the whole Commission.
Respectfully submitted
/s/ Frank R. MoCoy
Enclosures (5)
The Honorable
The Seeretary of State
Washington 25, D. C.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
CQPI
CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF FAR EASTEN COMMISSION PAPERS
RELATING TO UNITED STATES PROPOSALS
POR ECONOMIC REHABILITATION IN JAPAN AND SOVIET REACTION THERETO
1. Pc-292. Subject: United States Statement on the Roonemy ef Jape
This document is a statement based on a statement givem to the
press by the Department of State on January 21, 1948. This state-
ment was read to the members of the Far Eastern Cemmissien by the
American Delegate on January 21, 1948.
2. FEC-298. Subject: Soviet Proposal Concerning Planned Credits fer
the Reconstruction of Japanese Industry.
This document was submitted to the Far Eastern Commissien on
February 24, 1948 for consideration by the Far Bastern Commissiem
at its meeting on February 26, 1948. In this dooument the Soviet
Delegate quotes an item taken from a Chinese Central News repert
from Japan which refers to the United States statement on the esenemy
of Japan (cf. Item 1). The Chinese news report alleges that the
United States is preparing to devote certain sums of money fer
industrial reconstruction in Japan. The Soviet Delegatiem aeks fer
information as to what investments the United States has made is the
period 1945-47 for the purpose of reconstruction of Japanese imdustry.
3. FEC-298/1. Subject: United States Statement in Reply to Soviet
Questions Concerning Reconstruotion of Japanese Industry.
This document is a statement made by the Uaited States Repre-
sentative to the Far Eastern Commission on March 4, 1948 in reply to
the questions raised by the Soviet Delegation in FRC-298 (ef. Item 2).
4. FEC-298/2. Subject: Soviet Statement Concerning Plamned Credits fer
the Reconstruction of Japanese Industry.
This document is a statement made by the Soviet Delegate to the
Far Eastern Commission at its meeting on April 8, 1948. This is the
document which is being brought to the attention of the Searetary of
State for possible reply. In this statement the Soviet Represemta-
tive states his opinion that sufficient time has new elapsed for the
completion and presentation to the Far Eastern Commission of the plams
forecast by the United States statement of January 21, 1948. He com-
plains that no plans have been submitted, and indicates by reference
to further articles in the press that apparently the United States is
proceeding with its plans for reconstruction of Japanese industry and
the allotment of credits without reference to the Far Bastern Commis-
sion. Specific reference is made to articles appearing in the "New
York Herald Tribune" and "PM" of April 7, 1948.

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
Col. Harry O. Paxson,
May 4, 1948
P & 0 - Dept. of the Army
O - P. P. Claxton, Jr.
U. S. Reply to Sovist Statement FEC 298/2.
You will recall I told you by telephone last week the
substance of a proposed reply to be made by General MeCoy to
the Soviet statement of 8 April 1948 (FEC 298/2) regarding
planned credits for the reconstruction of Japanese industry.
At that time you approved the proposal. A slight change has
now been made in the proposed statement: one sentence has been
introduced, marked in red on the enclosed draft. In other
respects the enclosed draft is identical with the one about
which I had previously discussed with you.
Could you give me your concurrence or comments today,
if possihle?
Encl.
Proposed Statement
CS/V
O:PPClaxton:br
894.
DOR Unit
4-9
A
CONFIDENTIAL
Rev.
48
rat

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
Col. Hasry O. Paxeon,
May ho 1968
P & O - Dept. of the Army
O - P. P. Claxton, Jr.
U. S. Reply to Soviet Statement FEC 298/2.
You will recall I told you by telephone last week the
substance of a proposed reply to be made by General MoCoy to
the Soviet statement of 8 April 1948 (FEC 298/2) regarding
planned credits for the reconstruction of Japanese indastry.
Àt that time you approved the proposal. A slight change has
now been made in the proposed statement: one sentence has besn
introduced, marked in red on the enalosed draft. In other
respects the enclosed draft is identical with the one about
which I had previously discussed with you.
Could you give me your concurrence or comments today,
if possible?
Enol.
Froposed Statoment
O:PPClaxton:br
CONUENTIAL

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.89)
Coe Ca
CONFIDENTYL
MEMORANDUM POR THE UNITED STATES MEMBER,
FAR RASTERN COMMISBION.
In reference to your letter of April 9, 1948 to
the Seeretary of State coneerning a statement of the
Soviet representative on the Far Eastern Commissiem
presented at the meeting on April 8, 1948, I am emeles-
ing a proposed reply for your use in the Commissiem.
Charles E. Saltsman
Assistant Seeretary
Enclosure:
Proposed Reply to
Soviet representative.
Ca flentont
oB
NA
FE
FE:HBerton:fhh
4/28/48

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.94)
RAT
On Apri1 8, l94s, the Sovlet representasive em the
FMC made a statement, eireulated as Fmd see/2 seneeraing
planned eredits for the resonstruetion of Japanese imdss-
try. The statement conoluded that "the Seviet Delegesiem
considers it necessary to state, in order to make elear
mission on the question of the resonstruetion of Japamese
industry no other unilaterel deeisions and aetions eomld
be considered legal.
I have been inatrueted by my Government to state
that it 1s of the opinion that no Far Eastern Cemmissiem
poliey preeludes the Bupreme Commander for the Allied
Pewers from assisting Japan in ite exereise of she right
to have peaeeful industries adequate for its self-suppert.
On the contrary, the Potadam Deelaration assures Japen
the right to a self-sustaining esonomy. Poliey desisioms
of the Far Eastern Commlssion reenforee thet assuramee.
For example, the Interim Import-Export Poliey fer
Japan, approved by the r&C on August 18, 1947 states im
paragraph 9 end 10:
"Tor the purposes of thie paper 1mporte are
divided into the following three eategories:
a. Imports received to prevent sueh wide-
spread disease and unrest as would endanger the
oeeupying forces;
"b. Imports required to accomplish the
objeatives of the ocoupetion;
a. Other imports requssted by the Japenese
Government.
"For the tims being import programs under cate-
gories 9 a and b are authorised subjeet to avall-
ability of items and funds and sueh other limita-
tions as may be operative...
In the above quoted poliey deeision of the Far Eastera
Commisslon, the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers
10

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.95)
1s authorized, within limitatiems of ether contrelling
polieies, end more partieularly within the limits ef
avallable funds and items, te arrange imperts with dapan
to ascomplish the objeetives of the oceupatien. The
attainment of Japanese self-support elearly is ene ef
sueh objeetives. On January 23, l9e?, the Far Easterm
Cemmission determined as a matter of peliey that the
peaceful needs of the Japanese people should be defined
as being the standard of living prevailing in Japan
during the period of l9s0-34. In the past Japan's shertage
of funds and needed items has held Japanese industrial
output to less than B0% of the l930-34 level and exports
to less than 2sß of those required to make Japan self-
supporting. The U.2. announeement to the Commissien on
January 21, 1948, to whion the Soviet statement referred,
states the intention of the U.S. to assist in remeving
that obstaele to self-suppert.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.95)
BEX
UIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFNIRS
yMa
APR 21 1948
APR 1 1343
Univer PERENT OF STATE
FOR THE FOREIGM SERVICE
1135 16th Street, N. W.
Washington, D. C.
DC/R
April 12, 1948
The Honorable Robert A. Lovett,
Under Secretary of State
CTW
131946
United States Department of State
Washington 25, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
894.50/4-1248
Dear Mr. Lovett:
May I invite your attention to the attached copy of a letter
addressed to Mr. Green. The past twenty-seven months in Japan and
conversations here in Washington would indicate that perhaps the
Conly immediately effective way to extricate ourselves from the situa-
1
tion set forth in the National Foreign Trade Council's February
memorandum is through the alternative suggested in the third para-
graph of the inclosure.
I shall be in Washington for about a fortnight and would be
pleased to discuss the problem with you or your designee.
Very truly yours,
SSIRY
r=3
55
A
E
2
William N. Rogers
PM
1948A4
894.
NR/b1m
MAY1
FILED
CS
O
611

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.85)
Naiveveity Glub
1135 16th 00e0t, . U.
Age11 12, 1966
Mr. Jesegh C. Greem
Exesusive Direster
Beard ef Eaeminees fer the Foreige Service
kited States Dopertmeat of state
hahingtom 25, D. C.
Dear Mr. Greem:
I have refesenee to your letter ef Marah 30, 19he relasing to
the kamining Penel's desisien with respeet te my Gral Eremiastion n
Dn my om neceunt, I flow from Jagem to agpeer beteere the Penel
I beliene is, in large measure, Japem.
It is eugsested that, through the Diplomatie Bestiem: ef G.B.G.,
cenoultesive eapesities serre to gide and eosrdinate the aetivities of
Administratively this would be feasible beceuse the Diplemstie Seetien
operates wader S.C.A. P's Chief of staff while the majerity of the ether
Beetioms operate unier Deputy Chiefs of Staff.
It is believed that nofome will contest these tore faetes (1) thes
the wer petential or Jepem may be effostively eantralled thrench mm alert
hurepe.
Our Astiomal prestige and interests in the Far East would eppeer
to dietate the matter's uramey.
Very truly yours,
William N. Bogers
WIR/blm

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.94)
onsndih
NA
AIHGRAM
AR2/31948
3639
1
DW
DEPARTMENTY STATE Tokyo.
ACPION:FE
INFO:
Date of
DO/R
Mailing: 1pril 16, 1948.
G
OF3
HC
Rec'd:
pril 22, 1948
D
8:06 8.m.
Office of
SECRIT - FOR USL OF DEPART HP ONLY
FAR EASTERN A
APR 2 1948
Secretary of state,
CIRECTOR
Hashington.
Departm n: ci tate
A-75, April 15, 1948,
The attention of the lepartment is invited to he circumstance
that the number of American dependonts i: Japan his now reached mono
than 19, O00 women and chil ren. Availai e inforaat on indicates that
nunters of dependents continie uo arrive or are sche duled for
894.50/4-1548
arrival from the United States i the i ediate future. In conse-
quence, he Occupation coninues to be rd put  ini sufficient
housing and accommodations for the new arrivals, a houh various
"rest hc els" throughout Japan are now being utiliz d as temporary
quarters for dependents, p rticularly t e of junier oficers,
XR.
tnli tec men, and civilian..
120.301
In pur opinion, the pesence in Jar n of this large number of
Ameriar women and children has certain liticel iaplications (aside
from the impact upon the Japanese economr). We feei that the time
has : crived when, in the present wnsett! d state of world affairs,
sericus consideration might well be give: to reducing the number of
deperdents here. It uppea's tc us that politically, American freedom
of acticn in the Far Fast s to come ext ant circunseribed by the
necessity of taking into cmsiduration t e presence in Japan of these
American citizens and of devisin: neasu is, in cuse of recessity, for
XR
their rapid evacuetion to tle United Sta es or other safe locations.
That such evacuation would involve an ensrmous operati on and take
394.1115
many months for accomplishnent is obvio.:3.
There might also be serious complic tions in the event of a
major netural calamity in Japin, such a a severe earthquake, fire,
S
typhcon, or flood--calamities which ure celatively frequent in Japan-
with possible heavy loss of American livs.
ECRET FILI
lith respect to the impact of this Large number of American
dependents upon the Japanese economy, th: following actors are worty
1
of consideration:
3 1948
B. Cost
SECRP
H

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's A-75,
Apri:. 15, 1948.
SECRET
-2-
. Cost of housing, together itt continuing openses
caused by use of heet, light, repairs, upkeep, etc., and
Japanese personnel involved.
b. Servants, inc uding services to dependent lousing.
c. Transportation, including busses, private cars,
repsirs, tarages, motr pools, etc., and Japan se pocsonnel
involved.
d. Commissary stores .d Post xchanges, oget er with
Jap nese personnel requirer for their operatio.; light, heat,
rer irs, upkeep, etc.
c. Schools, teachers, Japanese personne or upkeep;
sclool busses, light, heat, etc.
f. Travel within Japan, includ ng "occupa ion trains",
resi, hotels, light, het, repairs, u kesp, etc. and loes of
covenue to Japanese economy.
fhere are also certain intangible fctors nlici givs rise to
ceriois social questions; for example, e existence he e of a large
roup of foroigners enjoyin extraterrit rialiuy in its rankest forn
and wo re in most respecis entirely se regated fron th: Jepanese
people represents an unhealthy sltuation Furthernmore, sheir scale of
liviny ir. contrast with thet of the Japanese people is s ch that soone
or later serious anti-American reaction y Large nubers of Japanese
may bc anticipated.
t sliould be added that we perceive no serious obje:ticns to the
presc ice in Japan of the femilies of Dep rtment of tate or foreign
diplonatic or consular perconnel, as the i presence here would normally
be accepted and understood by the Japanese, although admittedly their
identity is now lost in the great mass c. women and chil iren referred
to above:
n view of the above considerations we strongly urge the Depart-
ment o review the entire dependent program and, as a minimum, we
recommene that no further depencents, in the usual sense, be permitted
to cone to Japan. lie also recommend tiai, considerati on e given to the
possibility of radically reducing the nur ber of dependents in Japan at
the earliest practioable date.
SEBALD
850
WJSobald:1h
SECRLT

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.90)
17704
CLL
E- Mr. Thorp
Assistant Seoretary
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARYOT Econom1o Affairs
WASHINGTON. D. C.
MAY 7 1948
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
A-S
Dopartment of StdsGISLATIVE
APR 2 6 1948
70
C-LC
—1K
MR. MERKLING
The Honorable Robort A. Lovett
IAN
AFR 20 1949
APFOIRS
NORTHEAST
Dear bob:
 auvisin me that the
e r s ro  re riat  ouns Por rehabilitation
i dus
It is: t t o urt ent o? state d this Department are
in wrree e t  res vet o te le isltion waich should be pressed
Por passure b tne Don ress, i.e., thut each epartment prefers the
assure o the oneril cveli  le-i sation coverin- the entire program
190.50
For ceet lou areas. nowever, the araft o? the bill inclosed by you is
894.50/4-2348
uct e l test uraft u reeu on by our res ective representativos. In
pruer tat t re uy te a receru o our unuerstanuin- I inclose a copy
e?  e latest drart for your File. fhe uilference in your araft and
 vle pate t praft is unerscored on she inclosure in orcer that you may
 rouully note the cu es. lhe crrre with respect to the RFC and co-
" oruin vion, etc., wit. the iministrater ror conoic Cooperation were
i anserted ut ie insissence of start members of the house rorein Affairs
Cormituee.
I also iiclese a co : a re-aruft o? sne bill deulin- wit: the
ro uest or   ropriution c 275,o00,co0. Por rehabilitation in Japan,
Korea a.d t e ukyu Is1 mis whiei. as been reduced to v220,0c0,000. cover-
ine a twelve-month erioe rollowin tme ussare o? the bill. It hus also
been chnreu to anthorize ans airoct tne Fc to make advances not exceeding
1o,ut0,ouo. to curry out  e  r: oses of this act. The pur ose of this re-
A/LAA
araft is to co ply with the reguest mune by staft members of the touse Foreign
.'fairs Conrit ce who desire an alterate bill in the event favorable action
is not i ven to t..e more con rel.ensive bill. I am inforted that our aepart-
ments ure in a reesent o the technical lanrua e of this latter bill und the
Fact shut it shonlu be enactee ouly in event of failure of tne passare of
te broader abli. lerisi ttion.
I un lso infor ea t at si ce tae receipt of  our letter representatives
894.50
o? poth our e art onts mave isouesed wit me bers of the ouse oreirn
Prairs voritsee s sess srate or or tuinin curly action on this legis-
lution.  owever, it y bo lecessury to ve aucitional consultations with
FILED
the conmmiteees concerned witi. shuse bills.
DIVIS ON OF -OCCUPIED AR AS
DCB - CLAIMS UNPT
F
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.91)
- 2-
I appreciate very uch the cooperation of your vepartment
and hcpe that toget.ler we puy obtain early action in respect to
the foregoin-.
sincerely yours,
LOA
Kenneth C. Roya
1. rait Co of ill 
Secretary of the Army
Labli.. Le islution
2. raft Co o? ill -
Le-islation for Ju: un,etc.

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
A BILL
To provide for goveriment, relief, economic rehabilitation
reorientation, and reeducation in occupied areas in
foreign countrias, and for other purposes
Xhercas, he national security and interests of the United States
require the uccessful accomplistment of its objectives in foreign areas
occupied or controlied y the united States, including assistance to the
people in prup cing thonselves to carry out successfully the responsibili-
tiee of representativa soverrnent dedi cated to peaceful aims, in developing
principles of indiv ial 1. trty, i strengthening free political and oco-
nemic institutions, in devaloping  onocdes which will be self-supporting
and contribute so the recovery and stability of the areas in which they lie,
and in solidifying the will to resist all attempts from within or without
to eetablish totalitariun regimes, end
Whereas, The President has sut ority to provide for the government
of such arees  vi tue of powers conferred upon him by the Constitution
of the Unitei States and treaties made thereunder, and under International
Law tho United States is obligated to take appropriate measures for the
maintenance of public order and safety in occupied areas; and, there is no
expr ss legislesive authority to appropriate funde for the necessary economde
Ichatilitation of such areas end for the reorientation and reeducation of
the poopics thereof; and, it is desirable to authorize necessary activities,
includig the provision of material or financial assistance to occupied areas,
to erable them so tbecome self-suprorting without extraordinary outside assist-
ance and to sffectuate the policy set out above.
Therefore, Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.97)
the United States of Auerica in Congress assembled that this Act may be
cited as the "Occupied Areas Act of 19l8."
SiX. I. The President is autherized under such regulations as ho
may preseribe, and through the exercise of any functions necessary for the
acccmplishment of the purposes of this Act and authorized by this or any
other law, to carry out the responsibilities, obligationa and objectives
of the lnitec States in connecticn ith the government, control, or ocoupe-
tion ct cec pied furosign arers, and the areas occupied by other powers to
the extent nececsary to permit carrying out such responsibilities, obligations
and oojectives, including such measures as may be deemed necessary for:
(i) she maintenance of law and crder and the establishment and operation of
overcmenta institutiens, trial of war criminals, and the relief, reoriente-
tion, anl re-education of the indigenous populations thereof; (ii) quarters,
subsistence, lhealth and welfare of persons performing functions under thi
Act outside the continental linits of the United States and of their depend-
ents (including payment for the transportation of privately owmed motor vehicles
and for travel tc and from the United States of persons, other than dependents,
whora leave for emerpency reasone is approved); (iii) rehabilitation and re-
establishmant of the econouy in such areas; (iv) interchange of persons,
knowiedge, and skills between such areas and the United States and other
foreign areas incllding payment, subjcct to such authorizations and limitations
as he may prescribe, of tuition, personal allowances (not to exceed s1o per
day), traveling expenses (not to exceed those authorized for like United
States military and civilian personnel), transportation, fees incident to
2

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
instruction in the United States or elsewhere of such persons aa may be
required to carry out the provisions of this Act; (v) contingencies, repre-
sentation aljowances, and expenses incident to the operation of schools
for dependents of American personnel; (v1) purchase and hire of passengor
motor vehicles ad hire of aircreft; (vii) purchase, rental, operation,
and maintenance of princing and binding machines, equipment, and devioes
abroad; (viii) construction, repair, and maintenance of buildings, utili-
ties, facilities, and appurtenances.
SEC. 2. There are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as
may be necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this Act. Any foreign
currencies or credits acquired from cperations of the program contemplated
by this Act may be used to carry out the objectives set forth herein. Such
sums, cr parts thereof, as are appropriated under the authority of this Act
or for the purposes contemplated by this Act may be transferred to or merged
with appropriations of other departments, agencies, or independent estab-
lishments, as the President or an official designated by him may determine,
for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act. Any
expenditure for the purposes of carrying into effect the provisions of this
Act nay be msde under the specific authority contained herein, or under the
authority governing activities of the department, agency, or independent
establishment to which such amounts are appropriated or transferred, Pro-
vided, That when perscnnel of the services mentioned in the title of the Pay
Readjustment Act of 1942, including personnel of the Air Force, and civilian
employees of other departments, agencies, or independent establishments are
employed primarily in the interest of the purposes of this Act, the pay,
3

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
mileage, and other allowances to which they may be entitled may be paid
from the appropriations hereby authorized: Provided further, That expendi-
tures from appropriations made to carry into effect the provisions of this
Act may be made without regard to section 1h of the Federal Employees Pay
Act of 1946 and to sections 355, 1136, 3648, 3709 and 3734, Revised Statutes,
as amended, civil-service laws and the Classification Act of 1923, as amended,
section 11 of the Act of March 1, 1919 (44 U.S.C. 111), and provisions of
law prohibiting payment of any person not a citizen of the United States!
Provided further, (i) That the amounts so appropriated for the twelve months'
period following the passage of this Act for the economic rehabilitation of
occupied areas in Japan, Korea and the Ryukyu Ialands shall not exceed
$220,000,000 and (i1) notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation is authorized and directed, until such
time as an appropriation shall be made for such purpose for occupied areas
in Japan, Korea and the Ryukyu Islands, to make advances not to exceed in
the aggregate tl0,000,000. to carry out the provisions of this Act in such
manner, at such time, and in such amounts as the President shall determine,
and no interest shall be charged on advances made by the Treasury to the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation for this purpose. The Reconstruction
Finance Corporation shall be repaid without interest from appropriations
authorized under this Act for advances made by it hereunder.
SEC. 3. Retired personnel of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,
Coast Guard, and Public Health Service may be employed to carry out the pro-
visions of this Act without regard to the provisions of section 2 of the
Act of July 31, 1894, as amended (5 U.S.C. 62), and section 212 of the
1

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.97)
Act of June 30, 1932, as amended (5 U.S.C. 59a), and ret1red personnel 0
employed may recaive the pay of such employment or their retired pay,
whichever ticy may elect, without prejudice to the right to receive such
retired pay up tmination of such employment.
SEc. . Fn Is apprepriated pursuant to the authority of this Act and
unexpended at e ti of termination of the occupation b/ United States, of
any areas for : i funds are made available under this Act may be exponded
by the Presicont or une procurement of such commodities and technical ser-
vices as he shall determine to be necessary to assist in the maintenance of
the political an: sconomie stability of such area: Provided, That before
any such assistanse te made available under the provisions of this mection,
an agreement shal? e entered into between the United States and the recog-
nized goveromant r a thority vith respect to such area containing such
undertakings by such , overnment or outhority as the President may determine
to be necescary in orce tc assure the efficient use of such assistance in
furtherance f tha rpo. es of his section: And Provided Further, That
such agreement shail, wnere applicaile, include requirements and undertaking
corresponding to a requirements and undertakings specified in sections 5,
6, and 7 c the Foreim Lid Act cf 1947 (Public Law 389, Eightieth Congress).
Slc. 5. Tne Fresident may exercise his authority in occupied areas in
foreign countries, including jurisdiction over civiliana of United States or
other natlonality, and such other authority as is conferred upon him by this
Act through such officer or officers of the Government as he may determine,
and to this end may transfer any function and the authority therefor, or any
portion thereof, and civilian: personnel relating to the administration of
5

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
occupied areas to any department or agency of the Government: Provided,
That nothing herein shall be construed to alter or affect existing pro-
visions of law regarding the organization of the National Military Estab-
lishment or any part thereof and the command and discipline exercised within
the armed forces of occupation; and Provided further, That the administra-
tion of funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization contained in this
Act for rehabilitation shall be coordinated with the operations of the
Administrator for Economic Cooperation, appcinted under the Economic Co-
operation Act of 1948.
6

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.92)
Draft 15 Apr11 1948-
A BILL
To provide for economic rehabilitation, reorientation, and reeducation
in Japan, korea, and the yukyu Islands, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate ani House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congrese essembled, That the President is authorized,
under such regulaticns ns be  reseribe, in connection with carrying out
the responsitllties. tbi vti s, and cojectives of the United States for the
goverament, , f Japan, Korea, and the Ryukyu Islands, to
make provisi bi , ceorintation, and reeducation of the indigen
ous poplsions, rvi abi he cducational systems; rehabilitation and
reestablis t i e arees, including payment, subject to
such suthortzasis  iiai ns s he may prescribe, of personal allowanee
(net to c  ay),  xpenses (not to exceed those authorizd
for like Valted States litry  ivilian prsonnel), transportation, and fees
incident teti in th tss or el sewhere of such persons as may
be requird to y epovir this Aet.
Ssc. 2. re s tby  i to pe appropriated the sum of
220, C00,co0 for te tolv onts1 follodng tho pastage of this Act,
and such sums theretuer s m   ary to carry into effect the provlsion
of this Act: fre , at c a s shall be in addition to any amounts
approprloted for overre n anl poti  ocoupied areas. Any expenditures for
carryins cut the pu pesss ef t is   y be wade under the specific authority
contained h rein, or vnlor the authori governing the activities of the department,
agency, or independent este blisiment to which such amounts are appropriated.
Provided further, That notwithstaniin: the provisions of any other law, the
Reconstruction Finance Corporation is authorized and directed, until such time
as an appropriation shall be made for such purpose for occupied areas in Japan,

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
Korea and the Ryukyu Islands, to make advances not to exceed in the aggregate
$40,000,000. to carry out the provisions of this Act in such manner, at such
time, and in such amounts as the President shall determine, and no interest
shall be charged on advances made by the Treasury to the Reconstruction Finance
Corporation for this purpose. The Reconstruction Finance Corporation shall be
repaid without interest from appropriations authorized under this Act for sd-
vances made by it hereunder; and Provided further, That when personnel of the
services mentioned in the title of the Pay Readjustment Act of 1942, inoluding
personnel of the Air Force, ani civilian employees of other departments, agoncies,
or establishments are employed primarily in the interest of the purposes of this
Act, the pay, mileage, and other allowances to which they may be entitled may
be paid from the appropriations hereby authorized: Provided further, That expendi-
tures from appropriations made to carry into effect the provisions of this Act
may be made, when necessary to carry out its purposes, without regard to meotion
14 of the Federal Employees Pay 4ct of 1946 and to sections 355, 1136, 3648,
3709, and 3734, Revised Statutes, as amended, civil-service or classification
laws, or provisions of law prohibiting payment of any person not a citizen of
the United States.
SEC. 3. Funds appropriateu pursuant to the authority of this Act and
unexpended at the time of tormination of the occupation by United States, of any
areas for which funds are made available under this Act may be expended by the
President for the procurement of such conmodities and technical services as be
shall determine to bo necessary to assist in the maintenance of the political
and economic stability of such area: Provided, That before any sucn assistance
is made available under the provislons of this section, an agreement shall be
entered into between the United States and the recognized government or authority
2

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
with respect to such area containing such undertakings by such goverment
or authority as the President may determine to be necessary in order to assure
the efficient use of such assistance in furtherance of the purposes of thi
section: And Provided further, nt such agreement shall, where applicable,
include requirements a d undertakings corresponding to the requirements and
undertakings specified in sections 5, 6, and 7 of the Foreign Aid Act of 1947
(1ublic Law 339, Si.ghtieth Congress).
S..  n tration of funds appropriated pursuant to the authoris
tion cohtained i this aet for rehatilitation shall be coordinated with the
operattons of the ministrator for conomic Cooperation appointed under the
Economic Cooperatior: Act of 19hs. The functions of the Joint Committee on
Foreign Economic sooperation, provided for in Sec. 124 of said act shall like-
wise apply to any program of economic acsistance promulgated under the provie-
ions of this Act.
3

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.94)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
No. 243
Office of the U. S.·Political Advisor
for Japan
A
RESTRICTED
Tokyo, April 23, 1948.
BIVIBION OF OCCUPIED
The Honorable
894.50/2-2749
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
OC
ED IR CP FE
Sir:
L FNILHO
894.602
As of possible interest to the Department in connection
with this Mission's view that the economic deconcentration
program in Japan should be completed as a matter of urgency,
ACTION
I have the honor to transmit as enclosures herewith copies
OE
of certain self-explanatory papers prepared in the Antitrust
COPIES
and Cartels Division. Other pertinent papers were forwarded
TO:
with the Mission's despatch 126, February 27, 1948.
ED
PARTENT E TAE
948  3 4 19
H
Respectfully yours,
1R
CP
RECEVE
Wreace
FE
W. J. Sebald
FN
1948 MAY 4 PM I2 02
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
1L1t
twis
RECEIVED
FOR
Copy of DECONCENTRATION
DC/L
PROGRAM, an undated paper
18
xie
prepared in March 1948 by
the Antitrust and Cartels
ARMY
Division, SCAP.
NAVY
2.
Copy of RECOMMENDATIONS
C/A
therewith.
894.50
3.
Copy of a memorandum of
DCR TTP Uat
November 4, 1947 on economic
wis
deconcentrations, prepared
Anal.
by the chief of the Antitrust
JUN 4 - 1948
4/
And Cartels Division for R. J.
FILHD
Wysor Overseas Consultants.
Cat.
Dist.
Original and ozalid to the Department.
850
CCoville:cs
RESTRICTED

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 243
dated April 23, 1948 from the Ofrior
of the United States Political Advis
for Japan, Tokyo entitled "Economie
Deconcentration Program".
(COPY)
(Note:
This undated paper was prepared in March 1948 by
the Antitrust and Cartels Division, SCAP, Tokyo.)
DECONCENTRATION PROGRAM
1. Situation. To cbtain perspective for judging the
deconcentration program, it is necessary to have a clear
picture of how the Japanese economy was organized and
operated. A few individuals as autocratic heads of a few
families controlled the cconomic behavior of the nation -
not in the sense of havin seized power but by way of having
taken over a feudalistic set-up and organized it into a few
non-competing economic empires. The economic organizations
thus created cutgrew in importance the individuals who
developed them and hence, with or without the same leaders,
the organizational structure nd patterns of action stand
to defy encroachment of democratic capitalism. Historically,
the Zaibatsu are important as leaders in large-scale manip-
ulation and as effective inventors of restrictions upon the
freedom of economic activities of the people in Japan.
Clearly the war, so far as Japan is concerned, could not
have been organized without the Zaibatsu and particularly
without the tools of the Zaibatsu. On the other hand, the
war might well be considered as inevitable because of the
Zaibatsu since it was to the latter's advantage to restrict
production which comes from competitive efficiency and to
restrict that peacetime production in the face of a rapidly
expanding population. Obviously the Zaibatsu as powerful
opponents of democratic capitalism as we know it, must be
removed from positions of influence if democracy in Japan is
to become much more than a superficial manner of speaking.
However, the removal of the Zaibatsu is but one phase of
the over-all program, since their works, their restrictive
legislation, their combines, their well-grooved lines of
special privileges would still remain for others to exploit.
Although individual plants and combinations of productive
facilities were developed in accordance with principles of
profit efficiency, such operations were joined ownership-
wise into the Zaibatsu concentrations for purposes of control
and not for purposes of increasing productive efficiency.
With a small amount of capital investment, employed through
the technique of the holdin? company method, the Zaibatsu
controlled directly about 70 percent of the industrial-
financial-commercial activity. Indirectly, the magnitude of
their control was even greater through tight ownership over
strategic services as well as through dominant influence
over governmental administration.
RESTRICTED
The characteristic

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1
to Tokyo's 243
April 23, 1948
-2-
RESTRICTED
The characteristic arrangement of these Zaibatsu organ-
izations was generally as follows: A Zaibatsu family through
a family holding company controlled a commercial banking
organization, a large trading company, a few large combined
holding and operating companies, and through the latter a
large number of secondary and tertiary holding and operating
companies. Attached to the latter were numerous subsidiaries.
A large combination such as that just outlined did not t in
competition with another similar Zaibatsu company even though
they operated in the same field of economic activity. The
commercial bank of the one Zaibatsu organization was not
acting in competition with a commercial bank in another
Zaibatsu organization, but, rather, was set up to control
the flow of credit to members of that chain of ownership,
and to maintain through the manipulation of such credit
control over the various parts of that chain of ownership.
In order to make certain that these few large Zaibatsu
combines did not weaken each other's power through
competition, they followed the general policy of making it
extremely difficult for those not in the big combine to
enter into business and then they as the dominant members
of the various major economic fields joined together in what
can best be described as domestic cartels. Their cartel
arrangements allowed for growth and expansion of control
but established insurance against having such growth and
expansion of control being at each other's expanse. In-
filtration, as well as direct control, as regards the
government bureaucracy perpetuated the force of these
concentrations.
This situation is in impressive contrast with the
economic development of the United States. In the latter
country, freedom of enterprise and the profit motive
characterized the general development to such an extent
that companies of sufficient power to dominate the economic
and political life of the people of the country were the
exception rather than the rule. The background of freedom
of competition supported by a court system and a representa-
tive government prevented the development of such domestic
cartels. Hence, antitrust legislation to act as a preventa-
tive and to maintain the characteristics of American capitalism
through handling the exceptional situation were all that were
necessary. On the other hand, in Japan antitrust legislation
alone would of necessity have been doomed to complete failure
since the majority of business was clearly organized and be-
having in violation of the principles of such legislation.
In fact, the economic and political influence of the Zaibatsu
combines was of such magnitude as to have prevented any ef-
fective effort to enforce antitrust legislation.
2. Deconcentration Action. The following coordinated
actions have been or are being taken:
a. The Holding Company Liquidation Commission, an
independent agency of the Japanese Government operating
under the direct supervision of SCAP, was established as a
temporary agency for the purpose of carrying out the job of
liquidating the Zaibatsu properties and dissolving their
hoiding company operations.
RESTRICTED
b. Fifty-four

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No.1
to Tokyo's 243
Apri1 23, 1948
-3-
RESTRICTED
b. Fifty-four (54) persons, as the leading
Zaibatsu, were identified and designated. Their securities
were transferred to the HCLC: they were prohibited from
holding responsible positions; their properties and bank
accounts were placed under supervision. As their securities,
etc., are liquidated, taxes and other liabilities are being
paid off and the remainder is to be turned back to them in
the form of non-negotiable government bonds. As a conse-
quence, the leading Zaibatsu as individuals have been re-
moved from control and the possibility of their regaining
control is minimized.
c. Eighty-three (83) holding companies were
identified and designated for liquidation by the HCLC.
d. The two largest and domiating trading
companies, i.e., Mitsui Bussan and Mitsubishi Shoji, were
designated and ordered dissolved. These two trading
companies are approximately 75 percent liquidated and their
removal has eliminated one of the major control tools used
by the two largest Zaibatsu combines.
e. One thousand one hundred fifty-one (1,151)
companies were identified as restricted concerns. These
were the companies in which the Zaibatsu held 10 percent or
more ownership. This restriction does not mean that the
management of these companies is taken over by the govern-
ment but means that any action outside of the normal course
of business must first receive the approval of SCAP before
it can be taken. The purpose of this supervision is to pre-
vent dissipation of assets, etc., until new owners can be
found for the stocks held by the Zaibatsu. It is the policy
of the Headquarters to remove companies from this restricted
list as soon as possible. Already 54 companies have been
romoved and it is anticipated as stock disposals increase
that a rapidly accelerated rate of removal will prevail.
f. Approximately 5,O00 companies were identified
as special accounting companies and are required by law to
reorganize financially. These are companies which suffered
special war losses and the purpose of the reorganization is
simply one of requiring such companies to become financially
sound.
g. Approximately 11,000,000 shares out of a total
of slightly more than 200,000,000 which have been taken over
from the Zaibatsu holding companies and closed institutions,
have been sold. Sales have been made through consignment,
public tender, and negotiated transactions to employees.
As more information can be made available to the potential
investing public, disposal of these securities will continue
at an accelerated rate. It is clearly the intention to divest
the various agencies of the Japanese government of securities
in private companies and to see to it that stocks in private
companies are held by private individuals. The total face
RESTRICTED
value

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 243
April 23, 1948
-4-
RESTRICTED
value of securities held by these Japanese agencies 1
approximately ¥20,000,000,000., divided approximately
into 50 percent shares of stock and 50 percent bonds.
It should be noted that the very small capitalization of
major Japanese companies has meant that control over such
companies can be maintained with a relatively small invest-
ment. Purchasing power in Japan is sufficient to enable
the ready absorption of the stocks held by these govern-
mental agencies. A small portion of such holdings were
formerly held by United Nations nationals and hence dis-
posal of that portion will be through restitution to
former United Nations nationals owners.
h. Approximately 1,000 of the 1,500 national
control organizations (domestic cartels) have been closed
and their assets ae bein liquidated. Another 6,O00 such
associations, which operated on a more local basis, are
heing investigated for closure.
i. An antitrust law, patterned after the
principles of antitrust legislation in the United States,
was passed by the Diet and a Fair Trade Practices Com-
mission was set up to administer that law. The jurisdiction
and procedures of the Fair Trade Practices Commission are
similar to those of the Federal Trade Commission in the
United States.
j. Numerous Japanese laws, containing provisions
restricting business and giving special privileges either
to certain business men or to the government have been or
are being amended or repealed. Likewise, to recognize the
value of trade associations and to prevent a disorganization
of business relations through the elimination of the control
organizations and other domestic cartels, a trade association
law has been prepared for enactment.
k. The Deconcentration Law (Law No. 207) was
passed by the Diet to give authority and responsibility to
the HCLc to eliminate through dissolution or reorganization
the excessive features of excessive concentrations. This
action is to be a "house cleaning" action and both the law
and the agency are temporary. In other words, it was clearly
recognized that the actions listed above would be largely
ineffective if the excessive concentrations as organizations
were kept intact. In carrying out the provisions of this law,
the HCLC has designated 257 industrial concentrations and 68
service and distributive concentrations. These actions
complete the designation in those two broad fields and leave
only designations to be made among financial institutions.
Designation under this law eliminates, on the one hand, the
uncertainty of companies as to whether or not they are
covered by the law and, on the other hand, enables companies
which are subject to it to proceed immediately to take the
necessary actions so that they can be removed promptly from
the coverage of this temporary legislation. Designation
simply identifies those companies which are to be considered
by the HCLC under the standards for administration of the
law and does not mean that a designated company will have
to be reorganized. In fact, it is anticipated that many of
the designated companies can be removed from designation
after careful examination of the facts without any or at

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 243
Apri1 23, 1948
-5-
RESTRICTED
least a minimum amount of structural change.
3. Administration of Deconcentration Law: The follow-
ing reveal the practical manner in which the Taw is being
administered:
a. If all pertinent facts had been obtained and
analyzed regarding the excessive features and the reorganiza-
tion practicalities of each company prior to designation,
undoubtedly substantially less than 325 industrial-dis-
tributive-service companies would have been designated. How-
ever, this would have delayed the process and would have kept
many companies in state of uncertainty. Rather, designation
was made pronptly and designation closed for companies in
those fields. The entire list of designated companies is
being analyzed on the basis of facts required from the
companies themselves, as well as from other sources, and it
is anticipated that orders of removal, with minor or no
changes in organizational structure, can be made quickly.
Within four weeks, a considerable number of actions should
have been completed.
b. All companies have been informed as to the
meaning of designation and that others in those fields are
not affected.
c. Standards have been issued and many clinics
and other meetings have been held to explain them. There is
little basis for doubt that the companies designated under-
stand the standards.
d. Questionnaires, forms,and instructions have
been given each designated company and time limits have been
set for crderly compliance wi th the procedures by the
companies.
e. Precise formulas have been avoided as the
facts of each company are to be examined in light of the
standards, which means in light of the actual production and
organizational characteristics of each company.
f. Durin the period of designation, preferential
position is given designated companies, by law, in obtaining
loans for productive purposes. This is to assure against ad-
verse effect of designation upon credit standing of the
company because of uncertainty as to what changes may be re-
quired in the company's organization.
g. Each designated company is required to furnish
specified data and analysis of company facts in relation to
standards; data is analyzed by HCLC and GHQ; proposed order
to company is prepared on basis of such analysis and is
RESTRICTED
cleared

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. 1 to
Tokyo's 243
April 23, 1948
-6-
RESTRICTED
cleared with GHQ; such proposed order is sent to the
company with announcement of date for public hearing on
the proposed order; interested parties participate In
hearing to present recommendations, objections, additional
facts, etc.; such presentations, either oral or written,
may or may not cause re-examination and change of the pro-
posed order, depending upon whether they reveal that the
proposed order does or does not meet the standards; if pro-
posed order does not merit change as result of presentations
at the hearing, a formal order is issued the company;
company has thirty (30) days to appeal order to Prime
Minister on basis that facts were not properly employed or
were withheld; also, during thirty (3O) day period SCAP's
Deconcentration Review Board will examine the order on
basis of its effects upon operating efficiency of the
company and, hence, upon economy as a whole; if appeal is
not made or if appeal is not upheld and if Deconcentration
Review Board has no adverse recommendations to make to
SCAP regarding the order, the order goes into effect at
expiration of thirty (30) day period referred to.
h. If appeal is upheld or if Deconcentration
Review Board makes recommendations for change, the process
is repeated to extent necessary and any changes in order
must be cleared in GH.
i. No order can be issued by HCLC without prior
clearance in GHG.
j. Both HCLC (Japanese experts) and GHQ
(Occupation experts) will have examined carefully each pro-
posed and each final order for its effectiveness in eliminat-
ing excessive concentration features and for its effect upon
productive efficiency and financial soundness of the company
involved. Such examination will have been made, with careful
clearances among various interested sections within GHQ,
prior to the examination by the Deconcentration Review Board.
k. After final order is issued and has become
effective, court action is available to interested parties
under the constitutional government.
1. Speed in removing restrictions, if companies
are not found to be excessive concentrations or if companies
are found not subject to reorganizations, is a guiding
principle in HCLc's operations. If companies are found
to be excessive concentrations, speed in completing the
necessary re-organizations is controlling.
RESTRICTED
m.If a company

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 243
Apri1 23, 1948
RESTRICTED
-7-
m. If a company is found to be an excessive
concentration but is not, under the standards, for technical
reasons to be reorganized structurally, it is removed from
designation and its file is turned over to the Fair Trade
Practices Commission. The latter Commission will give the
company careful surveillance to see that it does not use its
excessive power to restrain trade, etc. However, such sur-
veillance places no restrictions upon the company which would
not have prevailed under the Anti-Trust Law anyway.
4. Effects of Deconcentration Law: Administration of
the law in accordance with the practical procedure outlined
should have the following effects:
a. No decrease in quantity or quality of production
and no increase in unit costs of production.
b. Increase in efficiency of management.
c. Increase in efficiency of allocation of raw
materials, etc., so that much greater certainty will exist
that such materials are going into production of goods needed
for domestic economy and for foreign trade.
d. Decrease in production of non-essential goods
and, hence, decrease in blackmarket activities which were
"necessary to support non-profitable and non-essential
production.
e. Nationalization of production, since competi-
tion and efficiency in production will be substituted for
efficiency in control at any costs.
f. Forced war-mergers, not based upon peacetime
efficiency interests of producers, can in many instances be
dissolved.
g. Dumping on foreign markets by Japanese will
be more difficult but lower costs should enable Japanese to
compete better legitimately.
5. General Principles: The following are principles
which guide the operation and administration of the decon-
centration law:
a. Large-scale production is favored and the
standards do not allow break-up of large-scale production
operations.
b. Sharp distinction is made between large-scale
production and ownership combines simply for control.
RESTRICTED
C. Efficiently

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 243
Apr11 23, 1948
-8-
RESTRICTED
c. Efficiently integrated operations are favored
and are not broken up under the standards.
d. Separation of ownership ties, where the
combine is excessive, is the principle. This is clearly
not break-up of operating productive processes.
e. No maximum or minimum size is placed upon
companies and companies may expand, contract, fail, or
succeed upon basis of their respective management efficiency,
so long as their behavior does not conflict with antitrust
legislation.
f. In spite of many requests from companies not
designated that they be desi gnated and get the efficiency
advantages from being ordered to reorganize, the scope of
coverage of the law and of the administration of the law is
limited to reorganizing only those companies which are ex-
cessive concentrations under the standards.
g. There is no interest in break-up of companies
per se; the reorganizations are for the purpose of eliminat-
ing excessive concentrations; size per se is no basis for
changing a company's structure or reorganization.
h. In cases in which combines are found to be ex-
cessive and are found to be capable of break-up into
independent operation comp-nies, the resultant independent
companies are to be sufficient in size and productive
potential to enjoy the advantages of large-scale buying, etc.
Likewise, they are to be financially sound, with assets
sufficient to enable them to compete reasonably for credit and
investment.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 243
dated April 23, 1948 from the Office
of the United States Political Advis
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Economic
Deconcentration Program".
(COPY)
(Note: This undated paper was prepared in March 1948 by
the Antitrust and Cartels Divi sion, SCAP, Tokyo.)
RECCM.ENDATIONS
1. That the control of the Zaibatsu be eliminated and that
actions be taken to prevent the Zaibatsu from regaining
their control.
2.
That domestic cartels, such as control associations be
eliminated and actions taken to prevent their re-
development.
3.
That restrictive controls over private business, such
as unnecessary licensing and quota and inspection
provisions, be prohibited.
4.
That ownership in private businesses be distributed
widely and that divestiture of government ownership
in private companies be accomplished quickly.
5.
That excessive concentrations of economic power be
reorganized into independent companies quickly and
without impairing large-scale production efficiencies
or hampering the speedy economic recovery of Japan.
6.
That anti-trust and anti-cartel legislation be
administered equitably so as to prevent unfair
competition and unreasonable restraints of trade.
7.
That governmental restrictions, necessary for complet-
ing the transition from Zaibatsu control to private-
independent ownership, be eliminated as promptly as
possible and that agencies and legislation needed for
such transition be eliminated as soon as the job is
done.
8.
That deconcentration increase the number of independent
sources of credit and number of independent producing
and distributing outlets, without establishing any
maximum or minimum sizes or numbers of such independent
operations for the future.
9.
That liabilities of companies suffering war losses be
capitalized promptly so as to establish financially
sound companies.
10.
That United Nations nationals, who were investors as
of 7 December 1941, be restored their shares and given
opportunity to receive prompt adjustment of additional
claims and that all United Nations nationals be assured
equitable treatment with Japanese investors to extent of
no discriminatory legislation or governmental adminis-
tration.
RESTRICTED
11. That SCAP

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 2 to
Tokyo's 243
April 23, 1948
-2-
RESTRICTED
11. That SCAP see to it that the entire deconcentration
program, which includes actions which will establish
a reasonable basis for freedom of enterprise and
competition without special privileges, is administered
efficiently, speedily, and to the advantage of Japan's
economic recovery.
12.
That public announcement from high authority be made
of the recommendations made herein and that such notice
include statement that examination of the actions taken
and the actions planned indicate that the present
administration is practical.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 
dated April 23, 1948 from the Offt
of the United States Political Advi
for Japan, Tokyo, entitled "Econo
Deconcentration Program".
(COPY)
ECONOMIC AND SCIENTIFIC SECTION
Antitrust and Cartels Division
4 November 1947
MEMORANDUY TC:
R. J. Wysor, Project Manager, Overseas
Consultants
SUBJECT:
Economic Deconcentrations
1. In view of your expressed interest and our ap-
preciation for all the advice, recommendations and assist-
ance which you may have time to supply, I am outlining
briefly herein certain pertinent features of the Deconcen-
tration Program in Japan. At your convenience, I will be
pleased to discuss these or any other features of the Pro-
gram with you and your staff.
2. The Holdin Company Liquidation Commission,
established in August 194 for the liquidation of desig-
nated holdin companies and for the elimination of control
by designated persons, operates under the direct super-
vision of the Antitrust and Cartels Division, ESS, SCAP.
This Commission has in its fourteen months of operation
had an excellent record of objectivity, practicality and
reasonableness in carrying out its responsibilities. It
is composed of a chairman, three executive commissioners,
three ordinary commissioners, and an auditing commissioner.
The following are briefed statements regarding the back-
ground of these commissioners:
A. - Formal training in economics at Tokyo
Imperial University, professor of
economics, editorial board of publish-
ing company, auditor statistical society.
B. - Formal training in economics at Tokyo
Imperial University, professor of economics,
commissioner of Imperial Fuel Industry
Company, author of publications on
monopolies.
C. - Formal training in economics at Tokyo
Imperial University, lecturer on industrial
economics, managing director of cement
company, managing director of railroad
company, industrial consultant for Ministry
of Commerce and Industry and for Finance
Ministry.
D. - Formal training in Tokyo commercial school,
employee of Bank of Japan, executive of
Japan Trust Bank, specialist in security
business.
RESTRICTED
E. - Formal

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. 3 to
Tokyo's No. 243
Apri1 23, 1948
-2-
RESTRICTED
E. - Formal training in law at Tokyo Imperial
University, established reputation as
successful private and government attorney.
F. - Formal training in Tokyo commercial school;
employed by Mitsui Bussan in Seattle and
New York offices until 1922, left Mitsui
and engaged in export-import business;
president of Japan Cotton and Silk Trading
Company; outstandin Japanese expert in
foreign trade, particularly in textiles;
and likewise recognized authority on
Japanese corporation principles.
G. - Formal training in law at Tokyo Imperial
University, employee of Bank of Japan
and Yasuda Bank until 1931, director of
Industrial Bank of Japan, specialist in
industrial finance.
H. - Formal training in law at Kyoto Imperial
University, entered banking business in
Konoike Bank of Osaka, specialized in
financing medium and smail business,
manager of Yokohama Branch of Sanwa Bank
(amalgamation of Konoike Bank, Yamaguchi
Bank, and 34th Bank).
3. The Deconcentration Bill, currently before the Diet
for passage as a Japanese law, gives authority and responsi-
bility to the Holding Company Liquidation Commission for dis-
solving excessive concentrations and reorganizing companies.
Procedure is established so that Japan promptly has passage
of this law. A list of companies will be issued so as to
eliminate uncertainty in the minds of Japanese business men
as to what companies are to be considered for reorganization
and what companies are not to be considered for reorganization.
Each company so designated or reorganization consideration
will be required to submit its reorganization plan and ample
opportunity will be given for careful examination and dis-
cussion of this plan. No reorganization order, however, will
be issued the company until it has been thoroughly examined
within GHQ and has been approved by GHQ. Likewise, no re-
organization order will be issued until parties in interest
will have an opportunity to present pertinent facts in a
hearing for such purpose.
4. The general position taken in regard to this Decon-
centration Program includes the following basic operating
principles:
RESTRICTED
a. Rigid

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No.3 to
Tokyo's No.243
Apri1 23, 1948
-3-
RESTRICTED
a. Rigid formulae are not to be employed in
determining the deconcentration of or the reorganization
of concentrations, but, rather, each company in each
industry is to be examined on its own merits.
b. Large-scale production and the efficiencies
of integrated operation are considered advantageous to the
industrial recovery of Japan and are not, therefore, bases
for reorganizing combinations.
. Effects upon quantity, quality, and costs of
production are to be weighed carefully before any company
is required to be reorganized and such factors will be
strategic determinants in the form which such reorganization
should take.
d. Enterprises which are excessive combinations
or even monopolies, but which cannot be divided into com-
peting units without adversely affecting production, should
not be so divided, but rather, should be identified for
continued surveillance by the Fair Trade Commission to pre-
vent their acting in restraint of trade, etc.
e. Division of concentrations into competing units
will be in the majority of instances result in decrease of
cost of production and decrease in inflationary price pressure
upon basic commodities, through the separation of unrelated
business activities, the elimination of drain of essential
materials and capital from the production of essential
activities into the production of non-essentials, the in-
creased stimulus which competition ives toward improving
efficiency, increased possibility of management specializa-
tion, etc.
f. Prompt desination and reorganization, in
accordance with practical flexible standards, should
eliminate much of the uncertainty which currently handicaps
production planning and should result in sounder financing
and increased production of basic commodities.
5. Since it is a controlling principle that the structure
of concentrations be changed into a structure characterized
to a much greater degree by freedom of enterprise, freedom of
competition and private business judgment, and since it is
likewise a viding principle that such structural change
should aid rather than hinder the economic recovery of Japan,
it is important that responsible officials in GHQ should make
use of all the practical assistance available without at the
same time delaying unnecessarily the successful accomplish-
ment of the deconcentration objectives. Consequently, I will
appreciate any recommendations and facts which you find it
possible to make available to me.
EDWARD C. WELSH
Chief, Antitrust and Cartels Division
RESTRICTED

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.83)
251 EAST 76 57. APT. BA
B. COHEN
NEW YORK 21. NEW YORK
25 Apail
Dew Jack:
dam sucloing the form yousent. shad not rphid
soous becance waren liad said lud wanld let we knger
bout the connltantsling cnd J wao waitung to hea from
the letey you firat sunt wme and d reget wot leaving comme
to tist buduaion eli.
be deange adeguatily-and taor if tiwe ov trr doge
2
wore ne veguined would you be kind rmough to lhave
5
youw seartad type in thed proper anwemers and itere
piquing. sill wtirn thime proumptly.
notion at the Cottege sleothy and a lettr from you or
wasen indicat ing you wauld like to lime wme coue th
you as a cousultant ou dapamese econonie affavs,wand
ta a mapul slilit to couvince the Fanty of my geurel
wathiness. Tole theoroughly wufed it wound lim ts leave
your miguatuse. s'd pricte this no nd.
somy fow ite debay-leopu tis warks out.
Angards toall-waren, Bill,Stan, Ulntin ite.
Sincrly,
FILED
7
dirry

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.91)
301948
a raply reser to
894.50/4-2548
My dear ltr. Conem:
Your letter af Apr11 25, 1948 nas beem received. I mm heppy
to report thet a persemmel action reeomeeading your appeintmest
as a consultant in the Division ef Researeh for Far East has been
initiated. This recemmemdation for persemnel actiom states thst
under the direetiem of the brameh chief, you will act as camseltemt
an problems ef ceenemde research dealing with Japen and Koree. Yos
will advise the branch ahies an the develapment at  eoemende
research program and will assist in the orgmisation of mjer edies
dealing with prebloms such as: the role ef pablle and private
finance in Japem's ceememie reeerery; taxatien in Japem; the Lmpert
anse af Japem in rebabilitation and reccmstrastien ef Far Rasteva
comtries, eto. You will also act as an adviser to divisiomal
pereennel md the poliey-making officers of the vepartment e preblems
af domestie and international finance, exohange rate and other eur-
remey preblems, Japemese administrative tecimiques, eto.
Should this actien be suscessfully completed, you will be
promptly notified by the Mivision of Departamtal Personnel.
Sincerely yours,
Jack E. Lydmm
Acting Chief, Japan Branch
ndvision of Research for Far East
211
CS/V
Mr. Jereme B. Cohen,
CR
231 Bast 76th Street,
8
Now York 21, Wow York.
DRF: Jy dman: as
4/29/43
Dr(Cleared by phone
wi th r. Hal lman)

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
DATE: Apr1l 26, 1948
TO
FROM
SUBJECT:
OE's "Proposed Outline for Stete Department Briefing of
Deconcentretion Review Board Members."
This proposed outline hes already been somewhat toned down
in the light of RiF's oral comments to Mr. Owen last Friday on
an earlier OE draft outline.
Neverthelese I believe thet the attached outline still fails
to achieve the proper balance between the need to relieve un-
certainties attendant upon the deconcentration program and the
need to remove excessive cocentrations of economic power -
this outline being overweighted in favor of the latter need.
The "I troduction" sets the tone for this document by intimating
that the State Depertment should proceed in its discussions with
the DRB on the assumption that the Army has given no affirmative
justificstlon for the deconcentration program. I think that
such an approsch would heve the unfortunate impression upon the
DRB that the State Department lacka balance and objectivity.
I feel that our presentation should make every attempt to
approach this problem se thoroughly and objectively as possible
with particular emphasis upon the uncompleted aspects of the
R
program.
As examples of the lack of balance in OE's outline, I
submit the following:
4-2648
a. Paragraph 2b states that certain groups such as working-
men ann consumers suffered becauce of" reat power of excessive
concentrations. No mention is made of the poesibility that
5
Japanese workers and consumers might have been beneficiaries
of the relatively high standard of living attributable in large
degree to the remarkable efficiency of concentrated economic
power.
b. Paragreph 2c states that the concentration of economic
power so cloeely allied to Government constituted a powerful
support for totalitarienism. I think the emphasis of this
paragraph should be thst such concentrated economic power could
88
constitute a support for totalitarianism but not that it always
6
has done so in fact.
4.5
c. Perarech 4e states that divested holdings "must be
DO/3
sold quickly to prevent socialism". It would seem from a
C
0
reading of this pare raph thet socialiem is a horrible fate
IS
that will assuredly befall Jaren if the securities of divested
工
companies
2
2648

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
companies and properties are not sold. I think many competent
observers of Japan woul r that Jepan must inevitably embrace
some dey some degree f socialism although they would certainly
not favor the retention of divested holdings by the Japanese
Government. Furthermore this paragraph makes no mention of the
all-important consideration - into whose hands are the divested
holdings to fall? From evidence supplied the Department by
US PCLAD, Tokyo, there are no effective messures to regulate the
ultimate diesposition of shares sold through public tender, and
there is every reason to suppose that the . ew yen or black market
cless - the only one at present having liquid weelth - will
eventually supplant the Zaibetsu as ovners of Japan's corporate
wealth. These end releted problems should certainly be brought
to DRB's attention. As you have well observed, even if the
holdin:s of tne new yen cl ss ere restricted through operations
of the new anti-trust law, there still will be a "retrogression
in the ty e un cnaracter of Ja :nese industrial and commercial
le:cership".
d. Para rech ic states that the reorganization of financial
institutions is sosolutely esrential. I do not inow if this
st.:ement is consistent witn current Stste Department thinking
out I am aware from aiscussions in SCap Headquartere that there
are certain SCaP officials familier with thie problem who entertain
feais tet the reorganization of Jepanese ban's will create un-
certeirties of a sufriciently rsve cheracter as to affect
Japonese eco.omic recovery.
Since writing the foregoing, Mr. Cwen has inquired concerning
Ka's reaction to tne proposed outline. I told him th t I had
specific objections alon the above lines. He has agreed to
redraft the cutline in order to: (a) delete peragraph 2b and
include part of 1ts thoug t in paregraph 2a; (b) rephrase para-
raph 2c to state: ". . .so closely allied to Government ae
to constitute e potentiel support for totalitarianism"; (c) re-
write paragra h ia in order to incorporate the suggestions we
have on this subject; (d) delete the opening chrase in paragraph
4c "Reorganization of inanciel institutione end other";
Te) rewrite the "Introduction" in order to emphasize the dangers
of carrying t e deconcentration policy too far or over too long
a perioc of time.
NA:MGreen/om

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.97)
Proposed Outline For State Department Briefing Of
Deconcentration Review Board Members
Introduction
In all likelihood, the briefing which the Deconcentration Reviow
Board has received from the Army has been lacking in any affirmative
justification for the deconcentration policy. One of the chief pur-
poses of State's briefing session should be to explain the reasons
for the policy's existence.
FW
1. Nature of pre-war organization of Japanese economy.
a. Extent and magnitude of concentrations of economic power:
unparalleled anywnere else in the world.
b. Means through which concentrations were established and
2
maintained: security holdings, and prestige of the Zaibatsu, their
use of holding companies and over-sized operating companies, their
excessive concentration and discriminatory use of credit.
2. Effect of pre-war concentrations of economic power in Japan.
a. Productive efficiency: were uneconomic or restrictive
in many cases; also prevented independent businessmen and local manage
ment from exercising initiative. However, may have contributed, in
some cases, to securing economies of large scale operations, ration-
alization of the economy, and efficient foreign trade operations.
b. Distribution of goods and services: certain groups
R1
such as workingmen and consumers suffered because of great power
of excessive concentrations.
1.4
c. Political; concentrated economic power in such a small
group so closely allied to government as to constitute a powerful
support for totalitarianism.
3. Formulation of U.S. policy with respect to excessive concentrations.
a. U.S. Government's "Initial Post-Surrender Policy Statement"
sent to SCAP as directive: very general language.
b. State and Arny Departments jointly sent out "mission on
Japanese combines" at request of SCAP. Mission's report submitted to
State and Aray Departments via SCAP, with SCAP's comments.
15
c. FEC-230 prepared on basis of the mission's report by SWNCC,
then revised by SWNCC in light of SCAP's specific suggestions for changes,
then aporoved by SANCC and introduced into FEC. Not approved by FEC, and
so not sent to SCAP as directive. Most FEC governments favor, if anything,
more vigorous Zaibatsu policy than the United States - some countries favor
nationalization of divested holdings.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
d. Policy under review by U.S. Government in past few months.
New policy statement will probably now be prepared and sent to SCAP.
4. Uncompleted aspects of deconcentration program in Japan.
a. Securities divested from Zaibatsu individuals and
holding companies, and now held by government: must be sold
quicxly to prevent socialism.
b. Reoranization of listed enterprises: should be
carried out quicxly -where it would not interfere with recovery-
to end business uncertainties. To this same end, enterprises not to be
reorganized should be removed from the designated list as quickly
as possible.
c. Reorganization of financial institutions.and other
measures to increase number of credit sources and terminate dis-
criminatory credit relationsnips: absolutely essential, if de
concentration program is to have lasting effect. unnecessary
disorganization of the Japanese economy at a critical period
should, however, ve avoided.
5. Conclusion: Program should be accomplished as rapidly
as possible to aid Japanese recovery. Increasing responsibility
should be dolegated to Japanese, so that the program will be
carried out in a fashion likely to ve accepted and maintained
b, the Japanese after the occupation, even if this involves
divergences from the ideal pattern conceived by SCAP officials.
At the same time, sufficient SCAP pressure must be maintained to
4
complete essential features of progran, listed under 5, and so
bring into bein, new owners and entrepreneurs who will nave
vested interest in preserving, and wno will lend an element of
stavility to, a more free Japanese economy than existea before
the war.

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.97)
MEMBERS CF
DECONCENTRATION REVIEW BOARD
1. Roy Stuart Campbell, Chairman of Review Board; President
and General Manager of New York Shipbuiiding Corporation.
2. Joseph V. Robinson; Engineer; Owner of Joseph V. Robinson
Corporation; associated with New York Connecting Company.
3.
Edward J. urger; Vice President, Director and General
Maneger of Ohio Public Services Company; also
Cnairmen of a rank in Chio.
4. Walter R. Hutchinscn; with private law firm here in Washington
and &lso formerly Special Assistant to Attorney General
Tom Clark - Anti-Trust Division of Justice Department.
5. Byron D. Woodsice; prese tly member of Securities Exchenge
Commission, Assistant Director of Corporation Finance
Division.
74.
1
15

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER. SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
6 May 1948
Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
11(ay48
Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Charlie:
I enclose a memorandum on Japan,following our conversations
this morning, which I thought might be of interest to you and which
was written by a friend of mine who was in Japan earlier this year
and who has had close contact with the occupation during much of
the period since the end of the war.
6
I nave just phoned him and asked whether he thought the
commercial rate could be adopted immediately. He thought not, but
considered that it would not need to wait full budget balance. He
suggested that four stepe should be taken simultaneouely and as soon
as possible as follows: (1) setting of a commercial exchange rate;
(2) rigid control but not necessarily balancing of the budget; (3) a
definite policy on deconcentration (I pointed out to him that the
Deconcentration Review Board had just arrived in Japan, that 194 of
5
the 395 companies designated under the law had now been removed
from the list, and that the purpose of the Board was to define as
6.47
quickly as possible the policies and methods under which actual
reorganization of monopolistic controls would be implemented); and
(4) definite announcement and institution of comparable price and
wage policies.
The attached memorandum,I think,will be of considerable interest
to you in connection with the conversations today.
Sincerely yours,
Biee
William H. Draper, Jr.
Under Secretary of the Army
1 Encl.
a/o
C)

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
WAR DEPARTMENT
MEMO ROUTING SLIP
NAME OR TITLE
Ur. P. P. Claxton, Jr.
ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION
DATE
Dept of State
concus-
RENCE
2
FILE
x
3
NECESSARY
ACTION
NOTE AND
RETUBN
4
SEE ME
SIGNATURE
REMARKS
The attached statement is satisfactory to
the Department of the Army on the condition that
the Department of State rully recopnizes the
feneral relation of this stat ment to the broad
overall U. S. Policy Paper on Japan, now under
discussion between the Departments of State and
Army.
The Department of the Army has o objection
to the presentation of this statement by the U.
S. ember of the FLC to the FEC at its 6 lay
meeting.
ie! uton
FROM NAME OR TITLE
DATE
0. PAXS Colonel
5 ay '48
ORGANIZATION AND LOCATION
TELEPHONE
S, PO, Department of Army
Army x2283
WD AGO FORM

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
Apr11 1, 1948
JAPAH
Things in Japan are ecming to a heed. Thet eertaialy
was the overriding imgression I gained during my last visit there
two weeks ago.
At the beginning of the oeeupation, Gemeral Meakrther is
said to have remarked: "If the oceupetion lasts two years it will
be & grest saceess; if it lasts three years it still has a ehense
of being a success; if it lasts begond that its ssesess is deabt
ful". It has now lasted two and a half years. It has beem a
suscess to date. Whether it bas a chanse of continaing to be ome
will be dec1ded in 1948.
There are four developments which in addition to the
very broad considcrations that must have prompted General
MaaArthur's prophesy quoted above, point to crucial decisions in
19488
First, Japan has a new Government. It differs from its
predecessor only in that a Right Wing Centrist presides over a
Cabinet which ineludes not only the Center but even the Laft Wing
of the Socialists, whereas in the previous one a Socialist Premier
had presided over a Cabinet made up largely of Center and moderate
Socialist elements. The broader bese which the new Government
may claim to have is in some ways a disadvantage as the Left Wing
Socialists have joined it on the express understanding that they
retain freedom of action; and to that extent the new Cabinet is in
a more precarious position. The previous Cabinet was ostensibly
defeated over an issse of economic policy, i.e. the balaneing of
the budget. The same divergence of opinion still prevails and it is
therefore generally assumed that the new Cabinet may not live beyond
this summer or year-end. This will probebly mean new elestions
which, in turn, might be interpreted by the country at large as
evidence that a political coalition pivoted on the Center camnot
succeed in Japan at this time and that the country must chose between
the Right and a clear-out combination of Laft Wing foroes. This
issue is, of course, fundamental.
Second, overall Amerioan policy tovard Japanese rehabilitation
is reported to be crystalising toward a definite and more positive
concept. A high-caliber U.s. Boonomic Mission is now in Japan to
study the problem and all interested Government agencies in Washington
appear to be moving toward realistio determinstion as to exastly whst
steps are necessary to restore Japanese economic self-sufficiency by
certain target date. Decimions will necessarily have to deal vith
the issue of "economic decentralisation" which had aroused consider-
able public controveray in America and is probably the one conarete
issue on which the Japanese themselves have openly tried to defy saap -

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
obvionsly unssccesafully. Without a elear-ost integrated
decisson on this issse e smstained rise in iadastrial predmstion
and private basiness enterprise in Japan is impossible.
Third, some months beck scap ordered thet the matienal
budget be belaneed at all costs, in order to stem inflation. Nany
economists in Japan and particularly the economie planners of the
Left contended and do contend thet immediate and rigid balamsing
of the budget would cease more and notless distress and eheos and
unrest. In their view, stabilisation of the siekly Japanese
economy, including balancing of the budget, mmst be a tapering-off
process and not a horse cure. So far, scar's order to balanse the
budget - regardless - still stands, but there is as yet no evidense
that the new Cabinet is willing or able to implement the order
right down the line. If it falls, it will moat likely again be
over this issue whicn is fundamental as it touches upon the eore of
oconomio policy.
Also included among economic policy decisions to be made
in the near future is the establimhment of a commeroial rate of
exchange. Both SCAP and the Japanese Government now appear to
realize more clearly than they did before that (a) a rate of
exchange is absolutely necessary in order to develop private
foreign trade (b) multiple rates are probably worse than no rate
at all, and therefore a uniform rate is the thing to strive for
(c) without a uniform rate it is impossible to rationalise export
industries and to plan specific measures for eventual self-
sufficiency on international account.
Fourth, because of political developments in the rest of
the world a peace treety for Japan cannot be expected in the near
future. Mor is it now likely that a civilian Allied or U.s.
authority will assume responsibility for the supervision of the
Japanese Government and economy as soon as had been expected. If
thus the Army is to remmin in complete charge for some time to
come, organizational changes, mome of them basio, are urgently
callod for.
Let me now comment briefly on some of these problems.
The present drive for a balanced budget makes, of course,
a lot of sense. No Government is ever able to balance the budget,
particularly after a lost war, unless there is overwhelming
compulsion to apply the big squeezer in spite of all the painfal
readjustments, group hardships and political opposition that
inevitably follow. scap's order to balance the budget provides
just that sort of compulsion (and for the Japanese Covernment the
necessary pretert) and in addition, was well timed as it came just
about when inflation in Japan began showing signs of tapering off:
the note ciroulation of the Bank of Japan hàd been going down in
recent weeks; tax collections had been heavy, largely because of
strong action taken by SCAP; Government disbursements showed a
reduction; and above all, black market prices had lately remained
fairly steady and in some cases had even declined.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.96)
-3 -
Unfortumately, these detlatiomary ayaptome were and are 
apiral and I am not sure that this has been thoronghly wndevebeed.
Sote cirealstion vent doun besaase tax collestioms vere fereed ue
by means of certain estrecrtinary measuree taken direstly by seap.
These sort of measures cannot be repested and, this year at any rate,
had the effest of mobilising capital rather than surremt imeomes es
a matter of fast, this almost foreed collestion of tazes hes emly
created new demand for bank credit, which the banks ean satisfy enly
by stepping up their borrowings from the Bank of Japan, whiek in turn
will soon be reflected in another inorease in note ciroulation.
Government disbursements have been low and continue low besease there
has been & Government crisis and because there is generel wmeertainty
over the budget. Black market prices have remained steady or have
declined because of very setisfactory food imports from the United
States, strong measures taken by scaP to enforce improved
distribution and the availability of an unusually good domestie rise
orop.
I do not wish to suggest that these developments have not
helped to relieve inflationary pressure, but my point is that most
of them are of a temporary nature. In addition, there is a new
factor in the pioture which may well become the most serions threst
to Japanese efforts at stabilization yet encountered. That threst
comes from labor. Whereas last Ootober I felt that labor leedership
was on the whole fairly ressonable, there is no question but that
cond'tions have since deteriorated considerably. As against a basic
wage standard of 1800 yen per mcnth adopted by the Boonomio
Stabilization Board last year, wage demands are now starting from a
level of 3,000 yen per month up and in many cases go e good deal
beyond that. In other words, wages have started a trend of rising
considerably faster than either official or bleck market prices.
Provocative abuse of labor pover is definitely on the inerease and
is encouraged, rather than countereoted, by the weak-kneed attitude
of management, even when confronted with quite unreasonable and
illegitimate demands. This attitude of submission to labor on the
part of management is generally asoribed to fears of scap support
of labor demands in case of a show-down, but there is abeolutely
nothing on the official record to lend support to these apprehensions
as to BCaP's role. There again some olear policy pronouneement by
scAp is definitely called for in the near future and may be empected.
As long as the present labor situation persists there is no
hope of effectively stabilizing the Japanese price structure, and
in my opinion, premature to insist on the rigid and immediate
achievement of a balanced budget. The time to do so is in
conjunction with the crystalisation of definite and conerste plans
for industrial rehabilitation, inoluding settlement of the
decentralisation issue, adoption of a definite labor polioy and
establishment of a commercial rate of exchange. As en integral
part of a coordinated reconstruotion program, the balancing of the
budget is absolutely essential and will perhaps be the most important
single factor in curing inflation once and for all. But until sueh a

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.95)
coordinsted pregram is adopted, the saphests ahoald be an
vithont inslting on the immediate end csmglete balamsing es the
badoot.
As regards ceononie deegntrellestien, I ean ealy repert
over prejudice and dostrine. As I have peinted cut in previous
reports, there is indeed room and real need for comsideseble
previons policies we vere to abandon all efforts at corresting eme
of the cracial sources of political and economie diseesss of the
past. But to ascompliah what is basis and to baild fer the fatare,
ve mast not rampage like a ball with horns made ef vindietivenese
and eyes blinded by reform last in a chine shop for wiah we feel
responsible; we mmst proceed with prectical diseretien, earefal
attention to production potentials in essential indastries and fair
treatment of property rights. It can be done. The swerd-ef-Bemesles-
like effect of the present program is absolutely killing initiative
and planning for the futars end the sooner a clear-out decisien is
made as to how far the Unitee states Government wants Japan to 
in that respect, the better it will be for ganeral recovery. Eeeept
possibly in the case of one or two institutions I still feel that
extensive decentralization in the field of banking and inssresse
would be most unwise, particularly as former abases and bad banking
practices stand a good chance of being correeted wnder a new
comprehensive banking law now in preparation and shortly to be
submitted to the Diet.
On the subject of a rate of exchange I feel reasonably
sure that no specific rate has been decided upon as yet, mainly:
because the final rate will obviously heve to depend on the level
of the general price structure at the time it is established. If
a rate had to be decided upon today I should think that something
like 200 yen per dollar would be a fair conversion factor for
Japanese foreign trade. In that case I believe an exekange rate of
175 or 180 would be about right as I hold that a country in the
condition that Japan is in would be well advised to adopt a rate
somewhat belov what might be considered the "market" rate.
Considerable thought is now also being given by scar to
the problem of foreigm investment. As long as there is no peese
treaty the acquisition of basiness property by foreigners may ram
into difficulties under international law as the aceepted rales of
land warfare provide that the acquisition of property by the
Ocoupying Power may Later be claimed by the Oceupied Power to have
taken place under duress. Also there is a natural tendeney to
avoid disorimination against those who, for no fealt of their own,
are unable to visit Japan now or who for one reason or enother
have to be restricted in their basiness operations. I believe thet
so far no conorete transaction involving foreign investment has
taken place in Japan except, remittances from foreign orgemisstiens,
missions, individuals etc. and the ocoasional scquisition of

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.97)
-5-
residential property by lieemsed foreign besinese epevetere. The
Lessing of fereign eqipment and mmchinery to Jepemese indestries
or the enterins inte teskniesl assistanee sontrasts are pessibly
the best ways in which foreign interests may ssin a foet-beld in
Jepen wider prevailing cirewsstanees. It should be remembeved in
that connestion that for the time being there is no pessibility of
obtaining protection of forsign patents in Japen, but this sheald
not be considered too serious an obstacle besaase as long as ssar
retains jurisdiction in Japen the risk of Japanese infringements
would seem rather remote.
Generally speaking, industrial prodaction hes mmde
practically no progress since last October, the overall pereentege
still being only about hk% of the accepted base period, as egainst
alightly over ko% six months ago. The lag in prodaction 1s dae
to lack of raw materials, to prevailing uncertainty over "econemie
decentralisation" referred to above, transport diffioulties and
labor unrest. Coal production hss kept up rather well and is now
increasing slowly. Unfortunstely the good effect that this might
otherwise have had on industrial production is off-set by a very
serious water shortage in certain parts of the country, whieh, in
turn, is adversely affecting power out-put.
Industry is very badly in need of refineneing and additienal
working capital. All hope of stabilizing the badget is futile, now
or later, if we create, or permit, a situation where Govermment is
the only souroe of new investment -.- that is unless we are bent on
pushing Japan toward a completely socialised eoonomy. The only
other alternative is to encourage formation and flew of private
investment. This means insistence on far-reaching rationalisation
of industry --- instead of mere structural and belanee-sbeet re-
organization as attempted so far; it also means the reopening of
Stock Exahanges; more orderly but strictly supervised prosedares
for disposing of Zaibatsu securities, and a reorientation of tax
policies. All these things, too, are axpected to come to a hesd in
1948.
Foreign trade is limping along. There is definite progress
in some respects and inoreasing difficulties in others. Experts
of cotton textiles - back-bone of Japanese foreign trade - have
almost come to a stand-still. All cotton fabrios made out of
American cotton previously finanoed through the Credit Commodity
Corporation must be sold in dollars in order to repey outstanding
dollar indebtedness and there jus: aren't any dollars left in the
markets to which Japan has a chancc c? selling tertiles. If the
Credit Commodity Corporation could be indaced to modify the clmase
preventing sCap from exporting tertiles against currencies other
than dollars, Japan would at least be able to dispose of her textile
production in the sterling aree where these is still an emermous
demand for such textiles. Stocks of cotton textiles at present
piled up in Japan are about 250 million yards of cloth and over
100 million pounds of yarn. This sitmation is certainly wmhealthy
for everybody concerned and calls for prompt action.

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
- 6 -
In tore respests gemerel understanding of Japan's fovelge
trade potential has made pregress af late. Piret, overybeky soome
now finally agreed that Japen's fereign trade ariestatien mmsk of
neseseity be tovard the sterling and ether sefs eursemey arese
to minimize the wee of dollar eredits as othervise her feseigm
exahange position is bound to become untenable. Sesond, it is mes
keenly realised thst real recovery in Japen is almest imeemeeiveble
without some sort of stability in Chine, even if tempararily cemfimed
to a truneated ares. Publio feeling against revived trede with
Japan, previously so strongly entrenched in Chine and the Pailippimes,
is gradually on the wane and this is therefore the time to makeevery
possible effort - on all sides and without sacrificing Asia's
justified claim for protection against possible future asgressiem by
Japan - to help and promote trade within the Pacific basin.
The imminence of major polioy decisions in so mmny fields
in the months to come calls special attention to the organisatienal
set-up of sCAP. It is my firm conviction that once these desisiens
have been made at the top level, responsibility for implememtatiem
should to an inareasing extent be turned over to the Japanese them-
selves. Instead of preparing for the gradual transferdmey of
responsibility, Scap has so far been getting more and more deeply
involved in operational details of running the Japanese esenemy. We
have neither the qualified personnel nor the organisation at home to
back up that mort of an occupation indefinitely. The Japenese mest
be mde to feel that they will have an opportunity to work fer their
own benefit and in their own ways. 100 to 200 qualified men of
mature judgement and experience can do wore to exsercise effestive
supervision and control of Japan than 3,000 mediocre offieials who
get lost in details and who spend half their time arguing among
themselves as to how top level policies are to be implemented. To
find those l00 men would certainly be a great deal easier if the
whole scap organization were to be trimmed dowm to a compest tesm
of key supervisors. Under such a set-up each man would be earrying
increased responsibility and would be able to foous his ettentiem en
a few carefully selected control targets. In that way, we will be
better able to follow and, whenever necessary, direet the really
1mportant trends while at the same time letting the Japanese ran
their affairs as mmch as possible in their on ways.
The over-tovering personality of General MacArthur hes been
a binding force of immense strength to date. The possibility that
he may retire from the Japanese scene in the not too distant future,
either because of political developnents at home or for personal
reasons, lends great urgenoy to this question of reorganization
within SCAP.
Thus, in that respect, too, things may come to & head in
Japan 1n 1948.

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.81)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTETOFSTATE
DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPLBRANÇH
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
275
2-1948
CA
Departm nt of State
OIRECTOR
he. porp
1
i1
ie or lailine
1948
B
151943
cCr
 lson raport pon Japan.
LLST: (whic culle the
cle the Pul taxts of
894.50/5-2048
habilicate Japen.
ry sreport of
shub ion would not
theb uot naighbor
Stater ry hor velid moral
e of ceu ion burdene.
te the richt
894.60
ur rer atl polie tnaw thet oug
r  e sugostion to
th   d s Jepan
haea brozc side, hon
ion  she "oh son aport"
al weticn in setsing sls ropera
740.501/P
 e mssien he been unable to
200
291948
Draper. Jr,
dd yosterdey, cesfirms
220d thoT 
t rot
20
JN7
FL
e e con ered
1948
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
ROLALLED

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.80)
ONCLASSIFIED
A-225 From Manila
May 20, 1948
2
he mission toot a lma ∴oot at Japan'a counomin condition
and cams up with the con.clusion that no: cnly is'oontimued
American uid pevpzmery but che rel.p of other Asiutio cowntrios
vith nhom Japen Etiil is tochnioully at wer is edaitionelly ro-
quirod to cko trc couiry solf-sustain ng onoe more.
One nond are h. a Ni: icn cr inreetle tion ohculd have boon
noosssery to itul lien vho fuct toot Je ta is relatively poor
and in pead  ery t u to suctsin rr people. Anyone would
tuhe van the ay  w  for tro. If tho functiou of the
iesien vcs i  reduee cravinerg and logical geon
rhy cther Ac' cou. ser shouli pite: ln. and holr Japan re-
irn to her pi r  tien in t sde. cneorce and industry.
Tor tt re crt to   aio ot of er any asuureno at all
that s rhoniitat  n ouls inoreu. e the chanocs or mio
tainn  o in   ifie or e ohe s, nor taut the very pro
cous csh'teticu not s acecpished at the exponee
tashe  t ce  doigabinttion. The machinry
of peoce t vhio opo cac era trace and inlustriel apre
cy ve .st  ciilc nt urd on.y sli atly less ruthloa then
hetthesouto clinchtheir mono
olios uus yono think that iu thre o t yacre the Joponese
v n  to t si
ne ro rt said ep  rdert y we  ratins at a very low
Lorel-lses ben a y  ve vor cels of ne 193)-34 evorage. That
comporisou lu linthy shoul t comu isslon piok Japan's
ost proapro i rcutire yur, fos cosprison? It might
so infer ss to  waer doy vefer a mak' ns Jnpen solf-suffiolent
they moen o o  g tt trnx to the vel ir lus gremtast proaperity.
juon a gosl wo  aot ici up vhetic sugitece rrom oowtrios
uffe ng voreo h Jr an e sufucine 'ron the eftermeth cr a
wer wh oh Jupan ooncoi  crd starrted, al of which sney wore tho
mll1
COPT T UB POLD. POTO
LOC HTT
710/891
C.P Ke ickor.P1j
CON .y.1948.
UNCL SSIHIEL

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.84)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
DEPARTMTOSTATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS TELEGRAPH BRANCH
LCECRAN
Office of
a
276
Ro Arioan Brbaoay
Menlla Philippinos
Date ef Faill
DES
Rsc d
June 1 1948 10:23 am
3
adiors
Secres y of State
公
RE
ACTION FE
aington.
INPO
DO/R
6  20 190 225, 
0
1ey 9 1918.0
SA/M
E
TH:/L.
The Vaitcd
te y    Good reaon ora s well
; rinn cic toi  to pol itcelf of the torririo burden
ITP
csupo.
 s seting laped for ccddling eni assiato
OFD
ig a vuperf ily docile onoy vhlls frieudly netions are
OD
894.50/5-2048
1: worsn sro e than Japan,  sperding 400, 000 000 a year
CIA
ri  p: rs monoy  do it. Yt is concerned over
F
nowbors sar waten of Tepenors who hed nothing to do with
P
tartirg nr  shti a var, t f it is so do the right thing
RPS
t will ate o cm up w th sonething botter than the Draper
port s  or st poy
ext of the
(Ney 20. 1948)
51948
The co coll:i Cobnsen copery on Jepamece reperations as
ubmi soed by e Detteo eseo Ar roleces protty much the
ino tukem  entay y bip buainsee to trs offeot that everything
her of w st Ds dore so ooddle an: nurco Jepan baok to 
caltton of vor
Thure is s ralilier gs sation thas Japenose veporations do
celed town a nex lo, ua the wom ns that oxtenoive aid
uet be giver Japan to brine bor up to vhst brier bagging exe
orta careft liy arillet in whet they ore to find, recommend
a hor ri phe Ful Jace.
sc j.r the: a is nothing new
Bue a ov engle ie intre uced an the proposri thet uniletoral
retton bo trien by so.P to ttlo tho veperatione lasue. inco
N
shers sppeuvn to be no ehneo or ugveenen in tho Fot Hoetern
7
194
Gmmipcion o? il detions
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central files with notation of action taken.
OTSTAED

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.83)
UNCLASSTFIED
226 From Manila
Faye -20, 1948
In othar vords, te re c 1. cn  by  ocm:ission sto
wing directly fron the Ver Dopetrant und therofcro reason-
ably to be regardod es spe ci: for tc dopertment, recom-
monds arbitrary action on Jupan eccor iny to its cwn lights.
and in defiunce, if duccssary  tis opinions end desirez
and conviotions of ony or sil of ths (ther ton netions on
the porrission,
  that so snudetion t uadosocratio ia to
ce rer derattome Wo cannot teliove
tt  t ra con or vill do ething
bus po    it cun s urbirerily d flagrant
ly on r  n isue.  cse si businoss n
LODKETT
COPT TOUS 
710/891
C.P.HoVickor 

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTI
UNITED STATES POLITICAL
FOR JAP
JON-A.1
No. 307
STATE
Tolod, lay 27, 1948.
RESTRIOTED - FOR DEPARTLENT USE ONLY
Sul ject: Transmission of Feport of Survey Trip through Northern
Jepan.
Sir:
 have te ono to enclese a copy of a memorandum prepared
ly Forei n Service fficor David . Iane setting forth his obser-
vations ani impressions athered on a survey trip through Northern
Japan durin the period May  to May 12, 1916.
894.50/5-2748
With a viev t, fati liarizing recently arrived Foreign Service
Officers with Japan and current prohlems in outlying districts, I
have instituted a series of trirs for these officers through various
parts of the country. It is lelieved that these trips will be pro-
ductive  consideral le firsthand information gathered in the more
distant prefeet ros, an' also result in splendid training opportu-
ni ties for the officers concerned.
Upon his retmn to Tolyo, each officer is required to pre-
care a memorandu of his impressions, otservations, and informa-
tion athered as a result of interviews with lilitary Government
and Japanese officials durin ris travel, wi th particular emphasis
upon cconosie and politicel factors.
Fep rts similar to that enclosed will be forwarded to the
Department from time t time as additional officers have had on-
portunity te take trips and prepare reports thereon.
Respectfully yours,
3
. Sebald
Actin: Political Adviser.
FILE
N
Enclosure: T.
P
Report of Survey Trip.
JAN 1 0 1949
Original and ozalid to Department.
retamedi 
contial. at
850
TJSelald/1h/dph
RESTRICTED - FOR DEPARTIIENT USE ONLY

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
Enclosure to Despatch No.
307 dated May 27, 1948 from
the Office of the Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject, "Transmission of
Report of Survey Trip through
Northern Japan".
Report of Survey Trip Taken by David M.
Bane, Second Secretary of lfission, to
Points in Northern Honshu and Hokkaido
Durin the Period Vay 5 to May 12, 1948.
INDEX
I.
Purpose.
II.
Itinerary.
III.
General Coments.
IV.
Niigata Prefecture.
V.
Akita Prefecture.
VI.
Aomori Prefecture.
VII.
Hokkaido District.
VIII.
Miyagi Prefecture.
I. Purpose:
The survey trip referred to above was taken under the authori-
ty of General Headquarters, Far East Command, Order 1lO-12, dated
April 23, 1948 in connection with this Mission's orientation and
training program for recently assigned Foreign Service Officers and,
in so far as time permitted, utilized as an opportunity to obtain a
first-hand indication of Japan's economic potential in the areas vis-
ited and to contact wherever possible individuals primarily concern-
ed with economic matters.
II. Itinerary:
Departed Tokyo for Niigata (via Karuizawa, Nagano, and Noetsu)
at 0800, May 5, and arrived Niigata at 2300, 'ay 5 (day coach for
Occupation force personnel available but no dining facilities).
Departed Niigata for Akita (via Niitsu) at O933, May 7, and
arrived Akita at 180), lay 7 (Japanese day coach accomodations only
and no dining car).
Departed Akita for Aomori at O715, May 8, and arrived Aomori
at 1215, May 3 (day coach for Occupation force personnel available
on alternate days).
Departed Aomori for Sapporo at 1630, May 8 (via car ferry),
and arrived Sapporo at O8o0, May 9 (sleeping car accomodations
availahle from Hakodate to Sapporo).
Departed Sapporo for Sendai at 2130, May 9, and arrived Sendai
at 2l20, May 10 (sleeping car accomodations available from Sapporo
to Sendai, with meals served both on car ferry and train).
Departed Sendai for Tokyo at 2130, May 11, and arrived Tokyo
Station Wednesday morning May 12 (sleeping car accomodations available).
III. General
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948.
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-2-
III.
General Comments:
As is indicated by the above itinerary, time in relation to
the distance traveled did not permit a thorough or a detailed in-
vestigation of any one particular subject, nor was such the pur-
posc of the trip. Since the trip taken was primarily intended to
afford a basis upon which to form opinions of Japan other than
that provided by residence in Tokyo, general impressions as well
as comments upon points of interest are included. Furthermore,
this survey is submitted vith the realization that statements
made by various individuals contacted. enroute represent only per-
sonal statements and opinions and have not been subjected to in-
dependent investigation.
IV. Niigata Prefecture:
Although the trip from Tokyo to Niigata takes approximately
fifteen hours, it has its compensations in terms of scenic beauty.
From Karuizawa to Naoetsu on the Sea of Japan, it was particular-
ly interesting, snow-capped mountains providing the back-drop for
Nagano's apnle-blossoms. Arriving about midnight, I postponed the
formation of my impressions of Niigata, undamaged by war, until
after breakfast, at which time, enroute to Military Government
Headquarters, as a Tokyoite, I was probably impressed most by the
absence of street cars and the presence of numerous Japanese civi-
lian busses and autos being operated without the benefit of smoke-
stacks and other protrusions observed in other parts of Japan where
charcoal and other solid fuels are used. The secret, as I learned,
was the use of compressed Niiata Prefecture natural gas, carried
in bottles installed in the trunk compartment. It is believed
that such a substitute fuel for autanotive vehicles, if developed
commercially, might prove to be of considerable economic import-
ance to oil-short Japan.
In conferences both with Shohei OKADA, Governor of Niigata
Prefecture and Chusalu MAEDA, Director of the Economic Department
of the Prefectural Government, the importance to the Prefecture
and to Japan of the Prefectural natural gas fields, currently in
process of development, was stressed. At the present time, an
estimated 150 companies are engaged in irilling operations, in-
cluding the oil companies (Niigata is second to Akita in crude
oil production) which have found gas production more profitable
than their oil operations. The average depth of the wells is
about 420 meters, although 150 meters is considered satisfactory
for household purposes. A visit was made to the Niigata Trans-
portation Company's well, compressing and bottling plant, and
service station, all located in the center of Niigata, and the
servicing of the Company's busses was observed. Each bus, car-
rying six large cylinders in a readycompartment (good for one
day's operation), would pull up to a service pump (mugh the same
as a gasoline pump), a hose with nozzle would be attached to the
cylinders, and the bottles filled in a matter of minutes. Accord-
ing to Company officials, the Emperor, while visiting this plant
last fall, was particularly interested in this process. Autos
on the
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-3-
on the other hand carry only three small cylinders in the trunk
and can ie driven all day on one charge, for which it was said,
the Prefectural price for each lottle serviced was 1l yen. Driv-
in in one of the Prefectural Government cars so operated through-
out the day, I found its performance excellent. Although recog-
nizin: the corercial possibilities,as yet, the shortage of steel
cylinders has handicapped the expansion of its use along this line.
It was said that experiments were even leing conducted to determine
whether compressed natural as could be used for locomotive fuel.
Niigata City has a natural harbor at the mouth of the Shinano
River,and in view of its imnortance as a shipping point on the Japan
Sea coast, it vas thou ht that a survey of the harbor might prove
both interesting and profitaile. Durin the war years, Niigata be-
came Japan's fifth lar est port in terms of tonnage handled. Both
Governor Okada and  r. Haeda emphasized the importance of harbor im-
provements in connestion with the expansion of coast-wise and foreign
trade vitr Asiatic ports, and the necessity for increasing present
measures taken to control sedinent deposited by the Shinano River
at the entrance to the harbor. A conference was held with the Chief
of the River and Harbor Section of the Prefectural Government fol-
lowed ly an inspection of the harbor in the Harbormaster's launch.
Constant dredging has always heen necessary to maintain the chan-
nel; however, during the war years, dred ing operations were neg-
lected, and it was not until the harbor was declared mine-free in
1947 that full-scale dredging operation were re-commenced. Since
that time the channel has heen dred ed to a depth of approximate-
ly 19 feet as compared with ?2 to ?l feet pre-war. At present,
three dredgers are beinc operated intermittently at a cost of about
5 million yen annually. Serious consideration has been given by
the Prefectural authorities to diverting the Shinano River; how-
ever, the cost is estimated at about one billion yen, and in ad-
dition, the surrounding rice-rich area would be innundated river
transportation to Niicata City cut, and the city water works serious-
ly affected. As a consequence, the present plan is to increase dredg-
ing operations and possilly, to construct sea walls so as to make the
channel more narrow (at present, approximately 195 feet in width).
With respect to capacity, the Harbormaster indicated that at present
ships up to 5,0o tons could re tied up to the piers (two Prefectural
owned and one privately owned)and ships up to 8, J00 tons to the buoys.
An additional pier was to have been constructed just prior to the war
but was never completed. The hope was expressed that arrangements
could now be made to complete it as part of the harbor development
program.
Although Miigata Prefecture is primarily important from a
natural resources standpoint, heing a surplus rice and fish pro-
ducing area, as well as an important producer of timber, minerals,
crude oil, and hydro-electric power (two-thirds of which is trans-
mitted to the Tokyo-Yokohama area), it is the principal manufactur-
ing center on the Sea of Japan and possesses a textile and metal
export industry. A visit was made to the Prefectural Government's
Trade Hall in Niigata City where samples of leading export items
were on display. To date, the principal export item has been cut-
lery, totalling approximately 500,000 yen in value, destined pri-
marily for Southeast Asia. In this connection, a set of silver
plate
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.98)
5
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-11-
plate such as was presented to the Emperor vhile visiting Niigata
last fall, was on display. Second in importance has been silk tex-
tiles, wiich iten is Nii ata's best potential export to the U. S.
In addition, machiner, tools and farmin implements, sewing ma-
chines, Xmas bulbs, toys, ul rellas, and lacquerware have been ex-
ported. vport contracts are negotiated in Tolto where representa-
tives of lii ata's export manufacturers are located. According to
individuals concerned in the conomics Department, export manfactur-
ers do net find eort trade profitable; however, by participating
in it they are a le ω obtain raw materials which they could not
otherwise secure, and further, it enables them to develop foreign
contacts.
A conversat:on was held with Lt. Col. Coxe, Commander Of-
icer of the Nii ata  ilitary Government Team, at which time the
lalor situation and price control progran were discussed. Accord-
in to Colonel Joxe, there has heen little labor trouble in Niigata
Prefecture to late. owever, te Prefecture's small in number but
puite active, as we'l as vocal,communist roup (estimated to be
aiout Jo) in numler), centered in the labor unions (transportation
and communication as well as industrial), had interfered to some
extent with the rice and tax collection programs. The belief was
expressed that ecause of trese collections many of the farmers
were sympathetic to the comnunists. This same point was made by
Governor Okada at a dinner that eveniny attended by a number of
Prefectural Government officials. Vith respect to price control,
Colonel Coxe addnitted that it was extrenely difficult effective-
1 to control tlack market activities, oods and money reing
hrought principally from the Kansai area by train to exchange for
suchitems as rice. in this connection, the opinion was expressed
that the majorit of e Prefecture's 3o00 odd Koreans, as well as
most of the Chinese merchants, were largely engaged in such activi-
ties, and this same point vas made by Covernor Okada. The Koreans
wish to vote but do not wish to le taxed and, according to the
Colonel, are a constant source of irritation.
An inquiry was made concernin; the famous Sado gold mine
(litsubishi ining Jomcany) located on the island of Sado, lying
approximately o miles off the coast. This particular mine has
been oporated for over a thousand years and it is of interest to
note that for several centuries the cold bullion produced by this
mine lecame the property of the shogunate. At the present time
the inin: company does not find it profitable to continue gold
nining operations on a large-scale while selling at government
price levels and at government direction. Labor costs have been
high and the mine has heen troubled ly labor disputes. Mining
operations are currently directed toward the more profitable
quartz production for lass nanufacture. In this connection,
prefecturel officials expressed the opinion that the island of
Sado might well become a tourist attraction. The ferry trip
from Niigata to Sado's port Ebisu, currently takes about three
hours, and there are three ferries en aged in a shuttle service.
Fresent schedules permit only a one-hour stop-over in Ebisu
should one wish to make the round-trip in one day; otherwise,
one must spend the night on Sado Island. In speaking of Niigata
tourist attractions at dinner, Governor Okada claimed that his
Prefecture's women were the prettiest in Japan!
As of
RESTRICTED  For Department Use Only.

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-5 -
As of current interest, while in Niigata, conversations were
held with r. Shulley of the Forestry Division of the Natural Re-
sources Section concernin the problem of sand dune control in the
vicinity of Niigata City. The problem of coast-line erosion was
illustrated vividly by viewing a concrete building which had sunk
approximately twenty feet into the sand. At present, thousands
of pines are ieing planted along the beach-line in an effort to
prevent further erosion. This particular problem is one confront-
ing man cities located alon the rugged coast line of the Japan
Sea. With respect to the latter point, the impressive ruggedness
of the coast line, as well as its scenic beauty, is brought to
one's attention best by taking the rail trip from Niigata to Akita.
As one passes through countless tunnels cut through sheer rock
cliffs descendin: to the water's ed e, one understands better the
transportation problem facing this part of Japan.
IV. Aldita Prefecture:
As is Niigata Prefecture, so is Akita a surplus rice produc-
ing area and an important producer of fish and timber products.
In addition, Akita is one of the most important mineral producing
.refectures in Japan, being Japan's principal oil producing area
as well as a major copper producing area. A conference with Cap-
tain Todd, Economics Officer of the Akita Military Government
Team, and his assistant, Mr. Kitamura, was devoted primarily to
Akita's mineral wealth. This Prefecture produces about sixty per
ent of Japan's crude oil, the avera e monthly production approxd-
mating ?, B00, 000 allons o? which the Yabase field (Teikoku Oil
Co.) currently produces about 1,500,00 allons. In addition to
Yabase there are three other major fields, Hachimori, Toyokawa,
and Asahikawa. ith respect to oil exporation, the opinion was
expressed that little or no progress had been made during the Oc-
cupation; however, exploratory operations on a larger scale uti-
lizin up-to-date equipment were scheduled to begin in the near
future. This Prefecture refines approximately 3,O00,000 gallons
nonthly, and has three major refineries in operation at present,
Tsuchizaki (visited  y the Emperor), Funakawa, and Hirasawa.
Tsuchizaki refinery, which was bombed by B-29's and subsequently
restored, lost its allocation of crude for a time due to ineffi-
cient operation (estinate 40 per cent loss through refining pro-
cess); however, it was restored by General Headquarters, one rea-
son being that the closure of this refinery would affect the live-
lihood of approximately 25,O00 people directly or indirectly. The
Funakawa refinery is located at the port of Funakawa which can
accomodate boats up to 4oo0 gross tons and for that reason, pro-
ducts of that refinery move from the Prefecture by water. (A
portion of Japan's salt imports for this area have passed through
this port and for that reason a Boeki Cho representative is locat-
ed there). Captain Todd estimates that about fifteen per cent of
the asoline refined in Akita Prefecture enters the black market
and is purchased principally by fishermen. As indicated above,
Akita is also a major copper producing area, monthly production
approximating 700 to 800 tons, the Osarizawa and Kosaka mines be-
ing the nost important. The Osarizawa mine is said to be one of
the oldest mines in Japan and has approximately 130 miles of un-
derground railways. Three copper smelters are in operation being
located at Kosaka,Osarizawa,and Hassei. There is also an important
zinc and lead mine located at Hanaoka as well as a pyrite mine.
In view
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948.
-6-
RESTPICTED - For Department Use Only.
In view of tie a ricultural importance of Akita, an inquiry
was made conc rning the organization of the new local agricultural
cooperatives. Althou h the transition from the Nogyokai to the new
cooperatives is alout 30 per cent comnlete, as et, the prefectural
officials have not had the opportunity to determine how effective
the new misati ons vill ro in the rice collection program. Cap-
tain Todd indicated that he loyokai were extremely effective in
collecting rice and epressed doubt as to whether the newly organiz-
ed cooperatives vouli materially change the old or anizational con-
trol structure. ith respect to the land reform program, in Akita
Prefecture, the transfers have lar el leen coupleted. In response
to an inquiry, Japt. Todd stated that there was some feeling on the
part of the new tenant-omers that many thin s which the landlords
used to do for t , such as like repnirs, must now be borne by
ten individual.
Followin e conference wit apt. Sodl, I attended a din-
ner given 1y Vice-lovernor ATAlABE al Kenichi TAKEOKA, Chief of
the Econonic Department  the Prefectural Government, at which a
number of prefectural vd local officials were present. The Vice-
iovernor made an introductory speech in which he stressed the im-
oortance of Akita's natural resources and deplored Akita's lack of
oxport industries. e hated that he was the head of a newly
formed roup to promote export production; however, at the present
time, Akita could only hope to export handicraft items, such as
cherry bark sport shoes r ladies and lacquerware. The tourist pos-
sibilitjes of tis Prefecture were discussed. Lake Towada being
considered by those present as an inportant attraction in that
respect.
The remainder of that evenin was spent with Lt. Colonel
Keane, Commandin, Officer of the Akita ilitary overnment Team,
discussin: the labor situation and communist activity primarly,
and transportation problens secondarily. Colonel Keane was quite
frank in stating that he has had considerable labor trouble in
Akita Prefecture; that he considers the communist influence and
direction of the union movement serious; that he feels a more firm
attitude should te taken in dealing d th cormunists and labor unions;
that the present labor legislation should he revised; and to illus-
trate the importance of his statement, that he has asked Regional
!ilitary Government Headquarters at Sendai for two additional labor
officers. Colonel Keane considers the Trade inion Law a particular-
ly undesirable piece of legislation in practice. Collective bar-
gaining contracts are completely one-sided in favor of the unions.
Many emnloyees of companies in Akita are engaged in full-time
union activities while drawing company pay. The Akita branch of
the Nippon Express Company, for example, has 16 employees so en-
gaged and the Teikoku Oil Company has 30. The branch of the
Nippon Express Company, although running in the "red", spent
470,000 yen between last November and March of 1948 on union ac-
tivities. Union elections observed in Akita Prefecture by the Mil-
itary Government Labor Officer utilize many of the techniques de-
veloped in the United States. Paid "goon" squads go from meeting
to meeting, delayin tactics are introduced so that an entire day
is taken
RESTRICTED - For Department Usc Only.

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-7-
is taken in order to discourage and tire out many of the persons
attending, and sin le-list ballots are used. Colonel Keane is of
the opinion that it is hih time for management instruction to be
initiated and that he is attempting to do what he can along these
lines. Management is constantly intimidated by labor and unfor-
tunately feels that it is at the mercy of labor since it believes
that the policy of  eneral Headquarters is to favor labor at the
expense of anagement. One example iven of the need for manage-
ment instruction, was that o the communist-dominated labor union
of the Teikoku Jil Conpany plasterin: strike signs on the front of
the Company's office ruildin: and the subsequent inquiry addressed
to Colonel Keane ly the officials as to whether they could tear the
signs down.
As indicated above, Colonel Keane, is quite concerned with the
con unist influence in the labor union movenent. He estimates that
he has atout 2)) corumunists in Akita actively enraged in party ac-
tivities, largely concentrated in the industrial and mining unions,
transportation and commnications unions, and teacher's unions. In
ris opinion, Rytaro  UrA, a hotel owmer, is the leading communist;
Yoshio SuzukI, a teacher, is next most important; and Kiichiro KAGAE,
Ninpon Express Company employee, is the third. The Nippon Express
Company is re arded by the Colonel as the center of communist ac-
tivity having l6 active members, the Teikoku Oil Company also being
an important center. Ka ae vas recently iven a suspended three-
year sentence for criminal assault during a collective bargaining
meeting and it is expected that the Governor will remove Suzuki
from his teaching position. It seems that Suzuki was found teach-
in cornunism instead of his prescriled course in mathematics and
that he had informed the pupils that if they would come to his
quarters he would instruct them further in communism. However,
they were not to mention the matter to their parents. Since it
is expected that Suzuki will be fired, the teacher's union has pass-
ed a resolution permittin: "former" teachers to continue their mem-
bership provided they pay their dues. Of interest is the teacher's
union's demand that they receive an 80 per cent increase in pay, or,
that the Governor stop all black-marketing. In this connection, of
the raduating class from Akita's normal school, ten registered com-
munists were at or near the top of the class so the Governor is in
the difficult position of finding rounds other than communism up-
on which to refuse their appointment as teachers. The Colonel also
indicated that a strong youth movement was developing in Akita Pre-
fecture and teing trained in communist techniques. Communists in.
Akita, it was said, have also actively interfered with the tax and
rice collection programs. Fishermen and farmers are particularly
sympathetic since the communists pretend a great interest in the
price of rice and fish and promise to fight to raise them.
Colonel Keane is of the opinion that more effective measures
should be taken by ilitary Government against communists. At pre-
sent, the nolicy is lar ely one of linking avowed communists to
propaganda activities. The Governors do not have the power to re-
move or to refuse to appoint individuals solely on the round that
they are registered communists.
The problem
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
-8-
May 27, 1948
The problem of transportation was also discussed with Colonel
Keane, which is a serious one for the Japan Sea coast prefectures.
The heavy winter snow falls and spring floods which wash out bridges
make the movement of goods within Akita particularly difficult. Dur-
ing the winter months only the main rail lines afford dependable
transportation.
V. Aomori Prefecture
In addition to the apple orchards, one sees numerous horses
being used in the fields in traveling from Akita to Aomori City,
capital of Aomori Prefecture. Aomori is primarily an agricultural
Prefecture producing sufficient rice to meet its needs and an ex-
portable surplus of apples. Seven and one-half million boxes were
produced in 1947, and prefectural officials estimate that 8 million
hoxes will be produced in 19l:8. Fishing, lumbering, and copper
mining are of some importance whereas there has been little indus-
trial development. The City of Aomori (approximately 75 per cent
of wlich was destroyed y the war), located on the northern tip of
Honshu, is, in addition to being the Prefectural capital city, a
commercial center, possesses the only important port in northern
Honshu and is the center for the inter-island trade between Honshu
and Hokkaido. lisawa airfield, locatcd in this Prefecture, is also
re arded as northern Honshu's key air terminal and is in process of
development.
A conference was held during the afternoon with Lt. Colonel
Hall, Commmanding Officer of the Aomori Military Government Team,
and the Economics Officer, Captain cCullough, concerning Prefec-
tural economic problems. They indicated that the land reform pro-
ram and the formation of agricultural cooperatives were going
ver well and that they did not regard labor union or communist ac-
tivity as presentin a serious problem in Aomori Prefecture. Con-
trol of the black-market in price-controlled items, however, had
not been particularly effective to date.
Prior to boarding the ferry boat that afternoon for Hakodate,
an inspection was made of the port of Aomori with Captain Knoche of
the Transportation orps. There are three ferry slins with rail
connections used by ferries encaged in a shuttle service between
Aomori and Hakodate. Three car ferries (four track width) are de-
voted to Allied use in crossing the Straits of Tsugaru (carry the
"Yankee Clipper" --Allied train operating between Yokohama and.
Sapporo) and approximately six car ferries are devoted to Japan-
ese use. ne Alljed ferry leaves Aomori about 1630 each day and
one leaves Hakodate about O630 each day. In addition to the fer-
ry slips, there is one pier at Aomori equipped with overhead
crane and machine loader, used primarily to unload coal boats
from Hokkaido. Ocean-going vessels anchor off shore and unload
into lighters. At present, however, the port is used primarily
in the inter-island and coastwise trade.
VI. Hokkaido District
Crossing the Straits to Hakodate takes about five hours and
is an interesting trip since one is in sight of snow-capped moun-
tains the entire time. Passengers leave their cars and go above
to the
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only
-9-
to the boat deck for the crossing. Hakodate is Hokkaido's largest
port and is used primarily by the inter-island and coastwise trade.
There are two ferry slips and one pier, and as is the case at Aomori,
ocean-going vessels anchor off-shore and unload into lighters. Ha-
kodate has been the port of entry for ted Sea area salt imports for
Hokkaido.
Since one makes the trip from Hakodate to Sapporo at night,
one does not have an poportunity to see the countryside until sev-
eral hours out  Sappor, the following morning. As a consequence,
one passcs throu h Shiraoi at night, the location of the Ainu vil-
lace publicized by Life Magazine. Approaching Sapporo by daylight,
a typical isconsin farn roup of houses, gambrel-roofed barn and
silo will probably le seen first. In Sapporo one sees many glimpses
of New England--wide tree-lined streets dotted with houses from New
England's Victorian " injer-hread" era. Hipped roofs, ohimney pots,
and dormer windows can e seen, and the harness hells of the two-
wheeled horse-drawn carts heard. An American was responsible for
Sapporo's streets heing laid out on a grid plan and it is said that
weather conditions motivated the introduction of architectural de-
signs used in Wisconsin and the New England states. Although Sap-
poro and the vicinity has a heavier snowfall than New England,
American personnel stationed there do not find it to be as cold as
Massachusetts or lfaine. Fy reason of the veather, few Japanese
wish to migrate from southern Japan to Hokkaido although greater
opportunities may exist.
Arriving in Sapporo on a Sunday (and the day of the eclipse
of the sun - lay l0) it was not possible to see all of the indivi-
duals desired; however, a conversation was had with Major Quante
of the Hokkaido Hilitar: Government District concerning matters of
primarily an economic nature. Unfortunately, much of Hokkaido's
formerly valuable export of crab meat has been lost as a result
of the tussian occupation of Karafuto and the limitation of the
Japanese crat fishermen t, a 3 mile area along Hakkaido's northern
coast. Accordin: to lajor Juante, at present, crab fishing is car-
ried on off Nemuro and the northern tip of Hokkaido, canneries be-
ing located in loth of these areas. It was stated that no difficul-
ty has been encountered thus far with Japanese fishermen exceeding
the three-mile limit. The type of crab presently being caught is
only about three-fourths the size of the Karafuto crab. Arrange-
ments have been made to sell some of the crab meat through the
Post Exchanges in Hokkaido. In addi tion to crab, Hokkaido fisher-
men also catch giant shrimp of commercial value. Being a cold wa-
ter fishing area, lHokkaido's seafood is of excellant flavor and
quality.
At present Hokkaido produces about ?5 per cent of Japan's
coal (it is poor grade soft coal) and it is anticipated that 40
per cent will be reached by the end of 1948. The Hokkaido coal
fields (three major fields are presently being mined) have large
reserves being relatively new fields as compared with the older
fields of Kyushu. The coal mined in Hokkaido is shipped primari-
ly to the industrial areas of southern Japan. Much of it is load-
ed at the port of Otaru (near one of the main fields) which has a
machine loader, also at Muroran, which too, has a machine loader.
Labor difficulties have been encountered in the coal fields, one
opinion being expressed that since the coal miners are the highest
paid
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-10-
paid laborers in Japan, they can best afford to strike. It was
said that the heavily subsidized coal fields do not make enough
to cover labor costs alone.
Hokkaido is the center of Japan's beet sugar industry and
is the primary source of locally-produced sugar in Japan. Since
sugar is also being brought into Hokkaido as a substitute for the
rice ration, there is no sugar shortage for civilians there. Hok-
kaido is Japan's source of seed potatoes and has a large apple crop
(the buds are individually wrapped in paper for protection). Hok-
kaido is also Japan's major producin: area of dairy products (about
80 per cent), a large percentage of which are shipped to Honshu.
It is interestin: to note t at sea salt has been used in the pre-
paration of butter and cheese (cheddar and smokey). Although sev-
eral sea-salt recovery plants were operated, they have been closed
as uneconomical with the introduction of salt from the Red Sea area.
At present Hokkaido has about 69,000 milk cows. The estimate was
made by the !ilitary Jovernment Veterinary that approximately
40,0o0 cows have been eaten during the past year due to lack of
feed for them. Dairy farmers complain that grain collections of
such items as soybeans, oats, and hay, have forced them to either
buy feed in the black market or kill the cows for meat. The Vet-
erinary estimates that about 30 per cent of the dairy farmers buy
feed in the black market. There is a difference of opinion with
regard to the dairy industry as to whether grazing land could be
more profitably used for the production of food crops which Hok-
kaido needs. In addition, Hokkaido has at present 269,000 horses,
20,O0o of which, it is estimated will be shipped out to Honshu
this spring. However, shipping difficulties usually entail losses
up to 20 per cent it was said.
Like northern Honshu, Hokkaido aa yet has a relatively low
degree of industrialization. There is a strong feeling current
in Hokkaido that a part of its natural wealth should be put back
into Hokkaido and not exported to the older industrial areas of
Japan. Hather than ship coal south to steel mills for the pro-
duction of mining machinery for example, it is felt that Hokkaido
steel and machine production should be increased and such machin-
ery for the development of its mines made locally.
The land reform program presents a slightly different prob-
lem in Hokkaido to that in other areas of Japan. Formerly, land
reclamation companies cleared tracts of land which they sold to
large landowmers who in turn permitted tenant farmers to work the
land free of charge. The tenant is now offered the same land which
he formerly worked free of charge for a price. Hokkaido has also
at present a homestead system for public lands; a prospective
homesteader may settle on such lands, and although limited as to
area, may secure title without price or time requirement. Few
Japanese in the southern islands, however, have any desire to mi-
grate to Hokkaido because of the severe winters. Following the war,
it was decided that Hokkaido should he opened up to approximately
100,Oo0 settlers from southern Japan. Many undesirables were mov-
ed to Hokkaido in accordance with this plan, and as a consequence,
the District Government is now strongly opposed to the settlement
of Hokkaido being utilized as a means of ridding other areas of
undesirables.
Transportation
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTHICTED - For Department Use Only.
- 11 -
Transportation, as in northern onshu, presents a major prob-
lem. Weather, shorta e of rail equipment, and the ferry haul across
the Straits are all factors of delay. As a matter of interest, lum-
ber (Hokkaido is an important lumbering area) can be shipped by rail
to Kyushu for less than the cost of shipping by water. The official
rail freight rates estatlished by the Japanese Government are low
(too low in terns of a self-supportin: rail system) whereas shipping
companies in effect operate on a cost plus basis within a general
rate framework. This same point was made in other parts of northern
Honshu. (It is understood that this matter is now under study by
the Japanese Jovernment).
The statement was made in Hokkaido, as at other points, that
the relatively small Korean population, many of whom worked in the
mines at one time, and are now lar ely engaged in black market ac-
tivities, caused difficulties far out of proportion to their mm-
bers. Price control here, as at other places visited, was said to
be ineffective. The labor movement was said to be particularly
strony in the coal fields and in transportation and communication
agencies. As in other areas, re istered communists are numerical-
ly small, but quite active and extremely vocal.
As yet no marked interest has developed in Hokkaido concern-
iny foreim trade and there is no active Chamber of Commerce in
Sapporo. The Foard of Traie (Bocki Cho) and the Foreign Trade Kodan
have representatives located there. Of course, firms having major
interest in Hokkaido generally have their head offices in southern
Japan and only maintain branch offices in Sapporo, the governmental
seat (Japanese overnmental ministries renresented), commercial
center and the location of Hokkaido's University (which possesses
a beautiful New England style campus). Hokkaido does possess, it
is believed, the essentials for development of a tourist trade,
e.g., wooded lakes for summer and excellent ski runs for winter
sports. Good sliing can be found within a short distance of Sap-
poro (ski lift), which was to have been the location of the 1940
winter Olympics and for which the Grand Hotel in Sapporo was con-
structed. Even the Ainu are interested in the tourist trade, not
only for publicity's sake but as a market for Ainu products such
as the hand-carved wooden hears (the better ones are not stained
but are rubbed by hand until stained by natural oils from the
hand). As indicated above, one Ainu village is located at Shiraoi
and another at Saigawa; however, Ainu are scattered throughout Hok-
kaido. Local reports indicate that they are losing their identity
through intermarriage.
VII. Miyagi Prefecture
Departing Sapporo at 2l30 by pullman for Hakodate, one makes
connection with the 0630 ferry in Hakodate for Aomori the following
morning. If one has a clear day, the view of the snow-capped moun-
tains which rim the swirling waters of the Straits is magnificient,
and one enjoys the position of being able to look on the Pacific
Ocean and the Sea of Japan at the same time. The trip down the
east coast of Japan is not as interesting as that along the west
coast since most of it is inland and not along the water's edge.
However, Matsushima, popular Japanese resort, near Sendai's port of
Shiogama
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 1948
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.
-12-
Shiogama, is not to be underestimated. The tiny tree-studded islands
dotting the bay, which one views from a hillside röad winding between
Shiogama and Matsushima, are a scenic beauty. The islands present a
navigation problem for boats entering Shiogama port which is used main-
1. by coastwise vessels and fishing boats. Shiogama is said to be one
of the ten larest fishin. villages in Japan.
l'iyagi Prefecture, in which Sendai is located (Ix Corps head-
quarters), is primarily concerned with agricultural production, lum-
bering, fishin: and mining; and has only a small degree of industri-
al development. ineral and food surpluses move to other Prefectures.
Hosokura mine in this Prefecture produces 30 per cent of the zinc and
25 per cent of the lead mined in Japan. In turn, the ore is shipped
outside of the Prefecture for snelting, as is the pyrite mined.
There are three silk reelin mills in the Prefecture as well as a
hicycle parts manufacturiny company, both of which items have enter-
ed forein trade, Certain rubber products are also manufactured
locall, as well as steel blades for industrial use. There is a
small ship yard at Shio ama capable of constructing boats of less
than 100 tons; however, it is primarily engaged in repair work at
present.
In a conferencc vi ti Toluro A TYAlA, Chief of the Commerce
and Industry Section of the !iya i Prefectural Government and Tsuye
OIKAWA from the l'iya i ilitar overnment Team's Economic Office,
!'iya i's chief forein export item, seed oysters, was discussed.
This Prefecture is tho source of seed oysters exported principally
to the northwest coast of the United States. 50,000 cases were
exported in 1947, and 12!8 exports are estimated at 31,000 cases.
Seed oysters are shipped fren O inohama (south of Sendai) where
they are loaded on ocean-goin freighters by lighters, As has
been indicated above, Shio ama cannot accomodate large ships, the
harbor presents a navi ation problem, and Oginohama is nearer to
Yokohama so that freighters picking up outgoing cargo do not have
to deviate too great a distanco to pick up a seed oyster load on
the return trin. Further, in regard to foreign trade, it was
stated that a Forein Trade Development Association had recently
been organized but as  et had done very little. The head of this
Association is also the head of the Sendai Chamber of Conmerce
which is not, it was said,a very active organization. Since
Sendai is the seat of the regional office of the Japanese govern-
mental ministries for the Tohoki District, Boeki Cho representa-
tives are located vith the re ional office of the linistry of
Commerce and Industry.
A conference was held with Captain Foswell, Labor Officer
and actin Economics Officer for the Miyagi Lilitary Government Team,
at which time labor problems were principally discussed. Captain
Loswell stressed the need for labor education for management, and
stated that he was initiatin such a program. The opinion was ex-
pressed that management was unable to deal with labor unions effec-
tively because of its misconception, in part, of the SCAP's sympathe-
tic labor policy. The labor union movement is strongest in the trans-
portation and cormunications unions and the statement was made that
they are largely dominated by a small, but well-organized communist
group.
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 307
May 27, 191:8
RESTRIOTED - For Department Use Only.
-13-
group. The leadin, communist, Zenso SUzUKI, is a member of the rail-
way union. Of interest is the actior taken by the teachers' union
to remove communists fron the union, and the action of the Prefec-
tural Governor in finding the unsuitatle individuals recommended by
the labor unions for appointment to the Prefectural Labor Relations
Comrittee, although communists, and his refusal to appoint them to
the Conmittee. Last year's Jonnitteo according to Captain Poswell,
was largely communist.
Since Sendai is t e location of e ional lilitary Government
Headquarters for the Toholu and Hokkaido Districts, a conference
was held with Major Oliver Vobson, egional Economics Officer.
His region is the hread-basket of Japan--rice, fish, potatoes,
sweet potatoes-- and the source of much of the lumber,coal, oil
and other minerals which are shirped to other parts of Japan and
lajor Hobson is particularly concerned with the development of Ja-
pan's natural resources and considers that such development is of
primary importance to Japan's economy. He is of the opinion that
food production has leen over-emphasized whereas Japan's hydro-
electric power resources, to name rut one, have hardly been tap-
ped. Substantial pro ress has been made in the organization of
the agricultrual cooperative associations and the disbandment of
the Nogokai; horwever, Yajor Hobson is of the opinion that no basic
change will have been effected. Land reform and food collections
have gone well throughout the re ion, as have tax collections, al-
though the reason for the latter, he believes, is that the taxes
have been set too low by the Japanese Government.
With respect o the labor union movement and comunist in-
fluence therein, the oninion vas expressed that it did not pre-
sent too serious a problem in the region. Major Hobson admit-
ted that high lalor standards in Japan at this time are a luxury
and that Japan would have to become Asia's Ruhr to support the
present standards evolved. Of interest was the statement that
management was not doin: as much as it could do. In the Hokkaido
mines for example, he feels that management is not properly push-
ing production because he thinks that they prefer to wait for high-
er prices and the end of the Occupation. In this connection, the
general observation was made by Major Hobson that if the Occupation
of Japan does not continue for at least another 25 or 30 years, all
will have been for naught!
The biggest problem in the region was said to be transporta-
tion. Although rail connections are excellent, the highway network
is poor. More trucks and rail equipment are needed to help move raw
materials from this area to the industrial areas of Japan. Again
the point vas made that coastwise shipping is more expensive than
rail and that the skippers of the coastwise vessels carry on much
as they please. Major Hobson indicated, however, that an investi-
gation of this situation is pending.
David M. Bane
David M. Bane,
Second Secretary of Mission.
RESTRICTED - For Department Use Only.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.97)
ACTION
is assigned to
UNIT
STATES POLITICAL ADVISEI
FOR JAPAN
DIVISION OF
NORTGASTDAAAFFAIRS
o. 326
JUN41948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, June 7,
工
C
SubJact: Japanese Economic Rehabilitation Plan
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose
five copies of Qutline of Jananese Economy Bababilitation
Plan prepared by the Economic Stabilisation Board. In
addition to the full text, there are also enclosed five
copies of a condensed version which has been published by
the Nippon Timas in installments May 18-22, 1948.
In releasing the enclosure, the Economic Stabilisation
Board has been careful to emphasize that the plan is aimed
at economic recovery only to the first stage of rehabilitation.
The plan has been submitted to the Economic Rehabilitation
Planning Committee, a committee organised for the purpose of
16-148
AN
considering the plan. The regulations governing this committee
FE
are enclosed together with a list of its members.
COPIES
Announcement of the five year economic recovery plan has
TO:
CP
been welcomed by the press as the first definite target for
rehabilitation. Copies of s everal editorials concerning the
plans are enclosed. The plan is considered to be such an
OE
ambitious one that the committee appointed to examine it is
ED
cautioned by the Hihon Maizai Shimbun to take a realistic
view in committee deliberations. The plan is criticized by
Lomiuri as being devoid of concrete ways and means to attain
its objectives in the actual economic framowork of present
day Japan. Since the Strike report estimates population
increase as greater than does the Economic Stabilisation Board,
editorial comment suggests that goals in the plan may be too
Yow for the level of rehabilitation envisaged per capita.
Amother major criticism is that the plan, although purporting
A/W
to aim at control of inflation within the first half of the
iprogram, does not in fact clarify relations between goods and
materials on the one hand and currency on the other.
S
Imphasis is placed in the editorials upon the fact that
rehabilitation of transportation and power will be extremely
difficult to achieve since such rehabilitation will run counter
to demands for consumer goods. This problem, it is stated, will
C..
be made less difficult by imports of consumer goods from abroad.
Stress was placed in some editoriels upon the absolute essentiality
of foreign economic aid if the plan is to be successful, and the
154℃
necessity for the Japanese people themselves to cooperate and
labor unstintingly for a long time to come. The editorial in the
communist
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 326
June 7, 1948
UICLASSIFIED
communist Akahata for May 21, 1948 attacks the plan as met desigmed
to elevate the livelihood of the working people, but to increase
the profits of the ruling class.
A question is raised by somew riters as to the cemposition of
the Economic Rehabilitation Planning Committee. Its memberahip
appears to these writers unwieldy and too heavily weighted with
representatives of capital and government. There are claimed te
be few scholars and only two representatives of laber  the
committee.
Enclosures:
"Out ine of Japanese Economy
Reha ilitation Plan", in
quintuplicate
2.
Editorial, Hihan Kaisai Shimbun.
May 18, 1948, "Contents of Bco-
nomic Rehabilitation Program".
free translation with one copy
of Japanese wxt
Editorial, Asabi Shimbun, May
18, 1948. "Immediate Establish-
ment of "The Program' Is Desired".
free translation with one copy
of Japanese text
4.
Editorial, Yomiuri Shimbun, May
18. 1948. "Economic Rehabilita-
tion Program", printed in Hippon
Timaa. May 19, 1948, in quintuplicate
5.
Editorial, Mainichi Shimbun, May
18. 1948, "Significance of Economic
Rehabilitation Program", printed in
Mippan Timea, May 19, 1948, in
quintuplicate
6.
Editorial, Himpan Timga. May 20.
1948, "The Five Year Plan", in
quintuplicate
Editorial, Akahata. May 21, 1948,
printed in Press Translations and
Summaries
8.
Regulations and Members of Japanese
Economic Rehabilitation Planning
Committee
9.
Condensed Version "5-Year Recovery Plan".
Himpon Times. May 18-22,1948,La quintpplseate
Original and hectograph to Department
850
WHLawrence:ms
UNCLASSIFIED
hs

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.93)
May 17, 190b
Outline of
Japanese Eccnony Hehabrtitation Flee
(lst Draet)
Economic Stabilization Poard

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
Contents
1. Introduction.
2. Goal of Economic Rehabilitation.
3. Mining and Manufacturing Industries
Foodstuffs.
5. Foreign Trade.
6. Transportation and Communications.
7. Construction 6r Rehabilitation.
8. Employment.
9. National Income.
10. Conclusion.

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLFS
1. Goal for 1952.
2.
Production Leyel of Mining and Manufacturing
Industries in 1952.
3. Plan for Textile Consumptien.
Froducticn Plan for Siaple Food in 1952.
5. Plan for Importe of Foodstuffs.
6. Standard Per-Capita Intake of Food per Day.
7. Fer-capita Clorie-Intake ofD istributed Focd per Day.
8. Export Plan in 1952.
9.
Rate of Increase in Transport Capacity within the
Country.
10. Amount of Goods to be Transported by Railways.
11. Monthly Average Shipping Tonnage.
12. Amount to be Transported by See.
13Monthly erage Allotment of Japanese Vessels
14.
Number of People Seeking Employment and-the Number
of Employment.
15.
Estimated Rol Poeduet
16. Estim:tcd Censmera Expenditure (1930-1934 Price).

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.95)
1. Introduction
The economic crisis in post-mar Japan is characterized by so-
called under production and inflatior. It is not a temporary confuel
due to the conversion of our econr y fror pr-time to peace-time
structure. Fut it is a criris deeply re tod ir hs thorougl destructi
and retrenchment of thr foun lation of cur oconomy Jue to the defeat
in.war. Needless to say, the preatest roplem of this country at pres
is to overcome this economic c isis on: stabilize our economy as soon
as possible. Tor this rurrose, it is necessary to draw up a blue-
print and set the concrete goal of rehabilitating the lestrueted and
retrenched economic founlaticn, n! thence to rut into effect the
measures to core with the crisis conccived as a part of a comprehensiv
rehabilitation plan linte! wit tho above blue-print and goal .
The Government has been and is strivine to stabilize our economy
but as the goal of sconomic  h hilitatier har not been clear, and the
International anl intornel conlitions to attain the target lave not
been fully ripe, end marures   c ve Jacked comprehensi-
veness and it has been uns'le to alminir'er fundarental remedies which
would strike at the roo: of crisis. It has neither been able to obt
the ccoperation of the whole reorle for the starilization of economy
clearly indicating them the tosl of our advence thereby giving them,
hope for the future.
But it has become necessary to take up the economic rehabilitation
i plan earnestly and concretoly at this moment, for the internal and
external cireumetances demand it. Now the Government keenly feels
that the time is ripe for it to lraw up and put inte effect, within
the limit allowed to it, a practical economic rehabilitation plan.
in order to clarify the roal of national efforts, to give direotion
and conprehensiveness to the economic neasures to overcome the
arisis and to request outside help absolutely necessery for
otabilisation of our ecome

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.95)
-2 -.
In this sense, the Government ha: decided to establish the
Japanese Economy Rehabilitation Flennin Conmittee and to submit.
to it the first draft of "the five-year plan for rehabilitating Japanon
onomy" which has been studiet y th Tono iron Board:
ince August,lest yea s r rerure and deliberation
of the Committee merbers.
Needless to say, this is tentativ ln n up y the Board
on an assunption of cert in cona tionr. T: he assumel conditions
change, the contents of the lan pust alse le chonged.
For instance, regarling the retinate of porvintion, which is a
esic factor, this plan un terestimater the increase, comparing with
the result of the Census of October 1s47. It is, therefore, necessary
to set the goel ef rehabilitation a lit le hi her than contemplated
in this plan. Beins conscicus of these defects and misunderstanding
which may be caused by then, we venture to submit this tentative plan
to the Committee, heciuse it is ierirel hat this plan'will serve as
a useful materisl for liscussions at the comrit ee and at the same
time it is believed tha: this will he rocl enough to serve for: that
purpose, It is sincerely hoped that, with the positive criticism
and constructive opinion of the mem ers expressed from the people's
tandpoint, this tentati.plan may be developed into a more perfect
rehabilitetion plan and that the time may come when all the people
will be united into one in their efforts for the rehabilitation of
oational economy.
(1) This is an overall rehabilitation plan of our economy
although it is'a tentative one. Its contents are divided into the
following seven items. All the projects have been made with a view
to restoring roughly the standard of living of 1930-34 by 1952, r1v
yease heace:

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.94)
Mining and Manu."aeturingInd
Foodsturfs
Foreign Trade
Transportation
Construction
Employment
National Income
The generel target of this economic rehabthita
and its indivilual projects are given in the feilowing
2. Goal of. Economic Rehabilitatton
(1) Under what circumstancer, may we call. ourtedon
substentially "stebilized"?
mhe concrete scale and structure of the Wat
economy" differ according to the concepts of the apropopk
of living snd the "appropriate" level and structune of
But, generally speaking, the following four conditior
fied before the economy ir doemed stamilizeda
1. Livelibged.ar the people is stabill zedtonta
standerdarliving.
2. Skpopt is enough to meet the import of foodsin
raw materiels end other-necessary goode In
balance of international payments.as
3 Level of econony

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.95)
In drawing up a concrete plan, the target or heamongh
of living and level of industry must be ddtermined takin
conditions and the national and internstional sltustions
The Government, after careful deliberation, has set the Boml
first tentative plan, to realize industrial structure ane ecal
of bringing about the standard of livine p1most to 1930-34 ave
by 1952, five years 1ter.
We have set the above standard as the goal of our rchabill
plan in consideration of the finlings of the Far Eostern.Dommi
which recognized' it reasonable to permit the Jepanese poople to
attain the standard of living of 1930-34 sversge, and of,thbine
to restore the pre-war stand rd of liying hefore starting to
country asa cultural nation.
(2) Mean population in 1930-3, in this country was 66,330,0
It is estimated, according to the estimation adopted in thia plan
. that our population will ingrense  32,9:0,000 in 1952. As o
before, this is an understatement. And yet it marks an inerpakeror
25% against the basic reriod. Accepting this estimate, andvasaup
that the greporeion of coneumption and investment remains consta
treal nationa1 income must reach l25% of that of the basiehp
in order that we may attain in 1952 the sane standard of liping
f had in.1930-34. In this connection, when we take into conside
warious circumstances which will not.permit agrfoultural,,fores
and, fishing industries to increase their production mueh ovar
basie period on eccount of-the limication of proquctid
quch as arable land end fishing erear
he and tes, and the dirricutty

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.93)
The extimated incrense in oueaho
October 1st,1948.79,990,00
",1949. 80,895,000
",1950. 81,618,000
II
",1951. 82,292,000
",1952, 82,932,000
The above estimates of population have been made by
Froblem Institute of Ministry of Public Welfare.
result of the Census revealed recently, the Jepaness pant
October 1, 1947, was 78,620,000 which merked an'
6,000, 000 after the end of the war. The  parti
increase consists of the repatriates from abroadt tut the
increuse during 1947 was arouni 1,550,000, whieh 1 for
the peak of 1,130,000 in 1941. Such errapid incretse mm
and abnormai post-war phenomenon, but the rate om the natu
is higher than we expected. Taling into consideration
it will be necessary to revise the estimate of the populat
ali, the maintenance of uch  big porulation on the poorl
aggravate the food and unemployment problems and conotitute
most fundament-l difticulties of Japan's economy. Thererp
deemed necessary to pay careful consideration and make stud
measures agninst population increase.
In order to get international receipts and payments
eneble us no longer to depend economically upon foreign
on, our own feet in the 19:2 fisoal year, 1t willsbe es
the goal should be set for our foreign trade to
goods as will counterbalance the import of xomp
both the productfon lewet andrldving ats
same time, produot

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.94)
(3) Arter considerazie
probability of attainmont, the followis
have been set up under the present tentative
the 1952 fiscal year, that is five years honc
TABLE 1. Coal for 1952.
1952(A)
Aver
19
Mining and Manufacturing
Productions
130
100
Coal
44,000 (Unit-Thousand-31,173
ton)
Crude Steel
;840
2,722
(Ordinary Steel)
(2,300
(P.195
990,000 (Un1t-
1.157,965CU
Cotton Yarn
Thousand pound)
(Spindle instolled) (5,830,000)
(8,000,000)
Agriculturai Produce
Money Indey
105
Calorie Index
116
100
67,921 (Unit,Thousand 61,030 
Rice
toku)
20,582
Barley and Wheat 24,481
Exports
1.646 (Unit-Million
dollar)
1,657
Imports
Invisible Prode
(+) 20
E1 T.c .
14,82C (Un1t-M1111on 12.20 0
Yen)
Livine st ntard
eiture (Par c pit
118.0(yn)
125.6 (Yyn)
Pood (per ocpita
per day)
,lll calcris
Clothing (per oapita
pcst.an.m)
und

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.96)
(Note)
1. The international peyment is calculated by therm
(as of October l947), though some decline in price is eounton
staple food, cotton, cotton fabrics, etc.
2. As for the invisible trade, the balance is actualn
But since all the export prices are colculated in terms of po
import prices in terms of CIr, it can be tachnically counted at
(favourable) when s crtion of them is carried by Japenese ship
$ 20,000,000 is thus counted as favour ble balance on this l1st
3. As for the gricultural production, the money index
comparison of gross products of sgricultural and aquatic industri
of basic period with those of 1952 and the calcrie index 1a onld
by the aggregate calories of the food produced. The great miftone
between the bove two is due mainly to the fact that expensive t
silk and cocoon production is cxpected to be lower end to the fd
that hore potatoes, which were comparetively cherp in the basip pe
are to be produced compared with the. basic period.
From the above Table it will be seen that the planned goal rop
the 1952 fiscal year will not materialize the 100% recovery tosthe
average figures of l90-34 in respect to the living standard, althor
the balence of aternetionel payments elmost attained. And also the
production level will not be completely recovered. Thds differene
accopnted for:
1. The present plon has been mapped out by taking into accour
the current situation of Japan's economy and her econn
in the fields-of power, mining apd manufacturing pre
and transportation.
2. If the real national incqme per
he same 1evel as 1930-34, agMcu

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.96)
Owing to the various restrictive conditions,at
raise in 1952 th: priculturn1 income to more thaba10
basic level. Consequently, the calorie inder of llgi
instead and more practicoble figure of 130% of 1ndustrir
was taken in this plans with the ocult thet the rear w
income in 1952 has to be 1x instend of 120s of thnt sh tr
basic period. Accordingly the "esl income per capits in
will be 97% of that in the basic feriod.
3. Accordingly, the productivity of labor was estimated
per cent of the basic period, taking into account the prese
trend of affairs and operating capacity of actual industrie
facilities. (Put the productivity of labor per hour 1sy100p
cent of the standard year).
4. on the other hand, the level of consumption, as-viewed
the angles of food and clothing, was estineted as mihimum
consistent with the objective to be obtained, making an ov
survey of potentisl production end import, snd taking intb
consideration the reasonable amelioration of content"oraary
The rehabilitation plan is aimed at attaining the selr*sus
economy at the earliest possible date and developing further on
concentration of the total national power and the utmost uti
of indigenous mesources. From this point of view, if furth
period ie taken in the planning, the sise of Japanese econon
to be ewpended accordingly., If this plan is meterialized,
presupposing further, increasesin population, the"economir
can be virtyally realized in l953 and if is-deemed poa
goalof Japan's self-sustaining economy will

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.86)
(Note)
iscr ormult ith view to promot
the concentration of
th. .cononi
us resources.
 in
ti:
v 1 r unrstated
rat
 n ny  ny,ther
hop.
will
tnrough
incrensri 1iorts or th  t :f
nn Fromforei
countys.
ustiv 1 liber tion will
bemle or th
 hic  hope to
fulfil by 19s?. In so yior,  lo p m n to ert thet the p
in the light of the roopect of revival yr ofter yr, will infall
materialize and fter five years from now  ran's economy vill attai
such 1 vel as ie picturei therein.  of course ielieve in the pra
ticablility of the plon, In layin: lown the rlan, however, we were
motivated by he desire, more than anything else, to resrond to the
strong lenanl f6r schiavement of cconomic rehobiritntion at such
tempo.
In view of the foct thrt present mining 'and manufacturing
are estinited at forty per cent of the yerage of 1930-34, the
trade ctually emounts to around ten per cent only ond the e
of powerful end multifarious factors is impeding enhance
sctivity, it-may possibly be critigizel that for:
little too optimstic. wa are vell s

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.89)
1. The current inflstion shafl po sottlud vithin tio
the pl  ncd pori'd and its effect and menace to our
st riliy  ll not ssume cuch morn'tuh ns will make tho
xecuticn cf h :1n mrorrir1.
conomt, in E st Asia will
noics
 by foreign
4.
picultier in power suprly ond transportation will be
solv I during th arlier part of the ors unt'r project,
and the -chicvement of the plon will not be vitally sffected
ty there factors.
Eyery item of ther. ossumrtions may ssem to to too hazardo
and optimirtic. But, it must be cnphasized that this is an "i
forpula". The present plan Antends to tring home to the Govern
ai the people the necessity to change their way of thinking en
in order to rehabilstate our economy as spon as possible.
To put it in other way,  moy consider these assumptions
indicators of not mere idle thoughts but of the targete ofsour
toward materialization. For oxemple, the target of raising th
tandard of living and that of establishing self-supporting
Er full employment may centradict each other to some extent
the process of stsbilizing economy. Therofore, in workins
present plen, the following items wora given the first
To concentrate fund and materials on thé basic depart
such as power and trentportation, whiakh:
Mret magaitodein rusag té

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.98)
age of thrlation is already extm
allow it to take 1ts own course.
level is almost of the same importance. Hølp
and enforcement of a strong comprehensive mons
necessary to solve this contradiction..
It must be, mentioned here that in working ou
we msde it the assumed condition that the minimu
for economic stabilization in such sphares as distri
commodities, etc., and maximum effort for effiei
which is absolutely necessary in view of the
of meterials, will be continued. If we can tide ourn
dire economic crisis by a comprehensive plan based on
plen, we believe we shall be able to attain the objee
project.

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.83)
-12-
aurmanufectur
7.r.
tret
id in
con-
aDL:t
e plan.
inon tr )
tatedroted
Dt
oric
Average
1y
output
Ca.: city
1930-34
Coal
1,000
tn
000
7,750
31,173
lec ric
CTEY
N:1.1
PE
0
16,811
Or1: 1
te.I
,000
tn
.C0
00
c,195
ctrc
ひむ
73
一1t
u
650
1,70
20
600
6
n
.s.
89
B:
11
150
一
158
92
“
500
4.150
€,637
Annon
11
1.000
.14
1.C.
1074
322
C. 1
450
450
200
cotton yarn
1,000
1しs
90,000
59000
96,0001,157.965
Rayon yarn
11
210,000
140,000
70.000
81.170
Staplo ibro
11
160.000
42.105
117.895
1,247
Wollen and
Sorsted yern
143,300
40.000
83,300
93.741
s of Ammonium sulpha

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.92)
-13-
ran
that in the 10-1
ndustrlali-
vation or Japar  shste  or nssural sourcur i acuts, the
omphasis should  preaualiy sifted n t ree  ca industry
and chomical industr in whic t port on t  added by tochnic
and l bour is muer i er  t of rv  tertals in the
produotion price.
It ie buca se 1] an: cottor yarns, judging
froputhoir prosent murketability ani t temp of their production re
covery, are ret expectes  r ain t. former scule in 1 52. But
prirarily this trend is what is natura' ly x ctod of Japan's eco-
nomy.
The changes in the indnstrial structure emtodied i- the out-
puts of res ective industries es compareu with those in the basic
period are shown hereunder:
Textile industry
84%
Nining industry
153%
(Cotton industry)
85%
Coranic industry
132%
(Silk
11
).. 37%
Xstal industry
141%
Mechanical·induatry
Food industry
100%
202%
Chemical industry 215%
Sundry industries 16
1.: (2) In order to attain. thio much of structur
i r the ont lolel o.40%
prodon

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.95)
- 13
The ccmperison between this industrial structure
the b:sic pericd reveals that the relative decresse inut
dustry and the devolopment of mechanical industry and en
industry merk the najor change in ts struoture. As we
Japan's economy requires a higher dogreo of industrialis
In the course of the induat
that in the 1930-1934 period.
zation of Japan wherq shortage of natural sources is aoute
emphasis should be gradually shifted cn the mechinicai indgat
and chemical industry in which the portion to be added by to
and labour is much bigger than that of riw m:terials in the
It is bocause silk and cotton yarns.
production price.
frep:their present murketabiloty and the tempo of their p
covery, are not expected to regain the former scale in l952
primarily this trend is what is naturally expected of Japnn's
nomy.
The changes in the industrial structure embodied 1n the out
puts of respective induatries as compared with those in the
period are shomn bereunder:
Mining industry
Textile industry
(Cotton industry) 85%
CeramIc Industry
(siik
Xetal industry
Mechanical industry
Rood industrya
202%
Chemical induatry 215%
Supdry indy
ls) It brder to attain/thte 

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.83)
-11-
wthtett
stnc
ron as pover and
traus rtus For
 the letter
(t to have heen
rroken txpans rou
and other industries
are conbemplatea.
rcanmanufactur
in procuet.niotrofo e follows
he rorat to oreto nne and
ractrinr(aa t bee peiod)
247
(rllytmated)
14
?1.
1.50
1051
1..8
1962
4
ix preau t1on 1 vel 1. 19s2 will smount to approximately
thre t t ut present.
Tore conspicuous rocovery is ex-
pucted in chericel industry (usp cially rayon and chemical ferti-
l1zer), Ictal in ustry (especially iron nd stecl) and Ceramie in-
austry than in others.
() Now, we shcll state the principal plans for difforont
deportments of industrics.

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.88)
-.15
1. PowY.
T most ortant conoition tc determine the tem
economic rostoretion consists of trree factors, nmely - resto
of fuel ari pcver supply, im ort of raw metertIs, and inoroa
transport:  capacity. and, if eetir inportance is to
att chcd t ctual condition in framing a rehabilitation pion
will b o cxa, er t  to say that the tempo of coal produo
restoratior t once n! cstes the rustoration tempo of goneral
ducticn 1. vel. In ti is senec, the problom of coal and eleot
pow  uply ay  roarded as a most important matter with 
bearincs n  puccess of Jepan's ccononic rehabilitation plo
in taliz the productan target of 44,000,000 t
fr ,must irerss th coal production by 1 ooo.ooo 
/about
ver .ve t estinsted production in 1947.
Moreover
1e, oc,o t t t .occ, ooo tontated bove 1s to
pro ucd the  elopm nt er new coal mines and now co
fin ordr, ver, thet no ceal wines and fields 
ectuall pruce c al, ve must nd a lot os msturials, fund
and Iur  hir pr l nart althouh they will not t
outrt
A for ce lorics or ccal produced, w
cort Lui,ol or 11 increcse o the present 1
7
i und -fter the fiscal y ar looo.
fron this point alone the
ontttartasIn the presont pln
vr,chicve thbove target by giing theb
possible preference t ccel pruluct.on and ,by mechanization or c
min n
For sugmentation of cloctric pow'r supply, we have decia
all ossible mcasures.
In the case of hy: s-cloctric powor mal
aVa1V

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.90)
- 16-
ave ila' i  ctroe  rcourees cre to be devoloped as quickiy
a: poe trl, a.cel year lose, rw pow'r planto are to
be corstru ted t s laces ur rd  t an ae t onereting
pover ir t. rr e o,oot wtt.In this con
noct cn, spucae rtanc. i at chntruction of
resorvoir syr ter e r plants se  por or teo d ceauon.
At present,  ro luctric v plants n our country
have a total ron rat cepac ty  e out 6, ooo, ooo xilowatt,
w.doh in the dry cas: 1 ruducot to abou' one balf, or ,00o,000
kilowatt.
Thi: deer ase threat ns te enoply or el ctricity
every year durng th dry .ear n.
The:  the reason why we have
decidod on apoedy tev lopment of ell eveilable r cources of byaro-
clectr: cut, etteching preference to th conetruction ef reservior
syete son r- le ts wite & view to sue ntir t suuplr of electri
city autinr ti ar seceun.
2he constructin of porer-plents.
hovever, carnet  corltee in nert tire.
The best we may
accomplish by th: fiscal yuar 1et2, in. accordance with th. present
plan, will be ar loerense of dry Leason eneratirs power by abou
970,000 kilpgtt which by far f:lls short of such increaso of power
aupply a ruqtired t overcome th hortage during tho dry season
In tie meen-tine, some ristrictions are anticipated on the required
increaso of thormel olcctric power supply on accotnt of many old
power plants going to to scrap heap in th meantime. Difficulty
like this cannot be ov re omo oven whtn wo msy make the most of ii
the present thermal el ctric povor aupply equipments.
Nevertheless, the domand for olectricity will steadily iner
in keeping with the increase of production.
Therefore.

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.97)
17-
shortege in dry season will last throughout the périod under th
prosent plan, even where strict econery is exercised of the con
sumption of electricity for lighting arc hceting at home.
The
supply of slcctricity has already rieen tc th pre-war level.
Thereforo, it is not mpossibl., we believs, for all parties con-
cerned to take neccssary measures to prevent t appoerance of sudh
circumctances as may be detrimental to iurther rises of production
basis.
This obejct may be attai  d through exercise of strieter
restrictions
on th constmption' ci 1 ctricity for any such
uneconomicul purpose  heatin: on the on: hand, and through ex-
:rclec of greater efforts to sugmert the supply of power by means
of other fuels.
2. Iror and Stsel.
Great incrense ci iron and steel production is required for the
repair, replacement and modernization, of important industries and
transportutiom facilitics and for the growth of machinery industry
The present plan, t er fore, is simed at the attainment of biggest
production realizable under the circunstances in which our country
may find herself on the campletion of the plan.
Sincc the immodiato prospect of import of raw materials such s
coking coal, iron ore, pig iron and scrap are not so favourable,
our target of prduction for the 1952 fison1 yoar 1s f1xed at ε,840,000
tcns (141% of that in te basic period) of crude stecl. 2,300,000 tons
(105% of that in the basic period) of ordinary rolled steel, end
1,800 000 tons (144% of that in the pericd) of pig iron. And yet
thess figures will be nearly five times as large as the regults to
be actually attained for the 1947 fiscal year.
During

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.85)
18-
During the besie peri, ste produ tion in our co
was chiefly operated or using cre a mor aterel. In the
presont plar, pr fer. os s a veu t er t rarated operetion
proviir f.r t.
rncensadering
t..
enraosal of by
producte.
l
ir tryie simed ct the atta
wont af cel -uirrerey, and parort t ast- cistie ragione wich ar
rt8
ceul rt aure. The lanned-for
proluct or  o tro.n ert 1 s  calyr l9s will be
2,o5o,oco te.s, s celculuted  1 monim ulphate, whfle
the import aud uxpert  nitrat.  on ur for th same fiscal yéqr
wil1 be bout 94, o00 ns (amronuum smohate cauivalunt) and 120,000
tons ruspoctively, 1 a ing  Oss, ooo/fer hom supply of the total
tns
proauction of 2,050, 00 tons, 1.600, 000 tuns will be covered by
nmonium sulphate and  raihing 4 0,o0o tone by calcium cyanamide.
The productive cepicity/fcrtil:zer plants ich have besn so fan
:of
approved to operate, v111 be at the best about 1,400,000 tons 
moniu.shlphute ané 400,000 tons of calcium cyanamides ip 1952
For the prcauction oi runaining 200, ago tons of srtoonium sulphate and
50,000 tons of calci cyanamide, we sre dapendent on thalequlpment
of ather fectories whose conversion into fortiliter work r
to the porritssion of tho allied forces authorities.
supply of fertllisers, see tho item for food

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.87)
-19-
4. lextile rcustry
Patil ncustr l a t atay of Japan'e ep
r,havttached con
inrtr
la.
rirrity is
indrea t,
6
52.1
ad
of raw-o tn.
ro as u0 : t  the preduction 1s for
ex.crt.
 aboveti r, h uch f lling short of the
avr e unnucl ret 1 193o- arly twice aa much 
the rs.t producti. Tha ref i y revarded s the utmost
o c capect in cen. i ratin of t tonpo of restoraticn. In
t rt, it ll  difficult t x rt a greater quantity judg
in fr t peesibl derand ubroad.
The rayen pre uctim fer the finoal voar 1952 1s aimod at
Staple fiber pre
210, c00,000 pounds. f  1c1 70/ 1. f  cxp.rt. s
duction for 1902, 1 1anned for 160,000,000 pounds  1th 34% of
beine irtenued fer export. This reans th.t the total production 
riyen and sta: le fiver fer the scid fiscal year will amount tc 37o
o0o,oo0 pounas. In prder to realize the planned producticn, we
require 222,000 lone tins of pulp, of h1ch 182,000 1ong tons 10
obtainablo at hone, but the remaining 40,000 long tons must be 1
perted frem abreed.
lith regard t: worsted yarn, we are planning foi the-produots
of 128,300,000 pounds for the f1scal yoar 1958.
figure is nearly as high as our masimum produestedt

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.97)
- 20-
past, or 155,172,00c pounds: 3ut, in consideretion
high salhhility, we thint that we shall experience litti
difriculty in finding mar'et therefor.
Demand in the world for raw sill is considerably retue
on account of the competition with pylon. In the present i
therefore, ve are provi lins for the esport of ?70,coc beles,
which eorrespon: to the 37% of the : re-war fipures. Upon
realization of the ' ove menticnei plan, the home surrly of
teytiles will be as follows:
TABL: 3. Plan for textile consumrtion
(In round),
Fiscel year
Consumrtion per
Index for
Consumption Index
head (Teytiles)
1930-34
per head
1930-3
= 100
(Clothing)
=100
1948
4.51
41元
2.7
31%
1949
5.82
53元
3.8
44%
1950
7.52
.68
5.3
61%
1951
9.13
82%
6:6
76%
85%
1952
10.39
94%
7.4

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.89)
?1
(10 Orodeetlaa of dtapte food te planned for ns follows?
TABLE a. Produstion Plan for staple food 1n 1952.
Are?
Output (A)
output (B) In
178
1930-34
1:1.000
un1t:1,000
Unitmillion unit:million
ran
ran
Svieet rotato
154.2
1.55
ε5ε
176.5
(4.0)
(5.244 ton)
(3.261 ton)
Trichpototo
299
274.2
(c)
(7,10( ton)
(1.121 ton)
A to th marup For laereased production of foodstuff In future
on wirl oppos  cont ntion that an idcal, chan choull 
maie fron tl present int nsiv forming conducted on  small seal. by
fomily Ialor to a meechanized farminr and live stock farming. Un-
rtunat ly, mwev r, 1 ls do not 1ways coincide with reality. For
om years to come it will b. impossibl. to supply adecust. mount of
mat riels to a riculture as the industry will not recover to such
tag. a to 1 ret th rupply of thore mat rirlr, nor will it bo pos-
eibl. to hive th. surrlur labor absorbed by other industries. Thore-
for., the plan is tis a on the prospected incroase of production ly
eneouraging in live-stoek f-rmior in a few yenrs hence vhen improve-
ont in th world'e fupply of fodder is materizlized by then, and by
Inereia cuprly of f rtimzor, improving of soil nd reclaiming of
Incld nt lly, the lan is laid for nough production nd ine
fully
orts of  rtilizur to moct, the ntir demands/in 1952. Undcr thie
pBan the principle of plxeing mrin cephaeis on cereals nd starch
which hie b: en followed since juring, th. wer is not entirely reiia-
quild b med of short ge in funds for imports. Tais

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.87)
-22-
heuld be gradually rectified and the course must be tinken in the
direction of n capitalicticnlly intensive method whieh includes live
tack farming.
(2) If, in adition to the forementioned production, the
Imports shown in tati  t roscire, the par-oapitn tntake of food
of tnationur
sovn in16.
TAELD 5.
(21: 1.200 tons)
124
1221
1952
13,980
starle food
2. 31
.757
(Unhurr:
Fate
335
386
Soy
341
+4J.
Surar
3.4
347
349
Fats
31
34
1/
Cr
P/A
义
1930
1ε
194
15
23
191
16
7.
1950
1
è9
1952
93.
:4
1952
19
(10)
 r1od 1930-1934 8
2.24? . s.  248 1 v.1 b. 1, 719 calorics or 72 per cent of
mt in l - 1934; and in 1952 it is cxpected to reach 2,111 calories

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.84)
23
and recover to 94 & of the average calorie-intnkc in 1930 - 1934,
though it still folls short of that mark. Neverthelcss it may be ool
sidered to have reached to th. standard cnloric-intake usunliy ronu
for the ovuras Japanes frer th. lo to roupoint of view. As to pr
tein of which th
n.srmsin
1930 - 1934,
 imrreved combi
nation in foca
i, yeluling
farm rs
E.r_DAY
4
r.c.
ions
05.
1195
totato
supple-
ay  v lopm it in the
ton o our r quir nts in food and
industr
ney wiilcorr phenomenal 
this coertr ost

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.91)
24
For instaace, in the basic geare tne annual Impor
to 1,800,000 tons iaoluding those imported from e
the ratigning of 8' "go" of ataple food in l952, we ahell
4,000,ooo tons annually/ Besides, for a stabilized sodnomy
2,580.000 bales of cottom, 650,000 bales of woo1, 2,050.000
ore, 9,000,00c "koku" of t1mber, 5. 000,00o tons of coa1, andr8
of salt are needed in 1952. The payment of these raw materlale
to about I,coo milllon dollars by present dollar value.
However, the export at present is at a low leyel of onlyslo
of that In besic years, osdstuff neede even for the .5 "gor r
now teis inpor tei  ao expense of tht people of the nited stobe
He bave to uss ftr she sonsidereble amount of foreign aid dun
perioe cf pthabili tati on, since we are in such condition that wet
reconnt uct our econony wi thout large amo ust of import of food and
/materials in spite of the poor export capacity.
Ta rocent reporta on U.s. poliey towar Jepan indicate thap on
will not  in vair. Tis cir umstance, novever, can not be eepeo
contlnue indefini aly. , bherefore, mave to create suoh s ttaabib
would ena s our economy bo stand on ita own feet by increeedng eu
tor expers ber tolds terouh sneedy promotion of export induetnres
cand expect she scanomip  of forelgn countriee. Thas the plan e
the iey acat of ohe experte commensulate with enougn imporp 
n terinle for jnaustry nd of food to enable us to me latain fa l95
living standaxd kept in the basic periods.
TABLE 3.
Export Plan 1a 1952.
Conmaitics
valuo
Pemarka.
(Unit-Million Dollars)
906
Textl:
485
542,000,00
Cotton Products
213
Reyn & Staple Fiore
Rew Si1k & SiIk Qoods
64
Manufaotured wooloa

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.76)
Machinery:
374
198,000 Metrio
(in steel)
Miscel90
34
Cr.omi. 1(0:
54
Frocessed
chncu Go
.0 000 c08
hericult.
rape.
46
19c.000,000 pond
Rb
,000 Metric
(R. Rubber)
C..L..
100,epo rons.
(.000 
( c1 s)
CLr:
00m
10.01 G188
(lactures)
C. 1
C.
1y 
pla.
11 
11t.
oreir
cur
oieirvereu
irpPL.Lio
aesru
c-ion
1, 1 lcy in
gaincitextiindustry
wi
iminic.r mrh bly compared with
the
1.1
stvarius cour
1
eiit lo ur uxport lo progreasing
very lowl,   re in peer t the Fr East s exceedingly lim

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.87)
25
Pirmly, trad is neturally inclined to be o rrici on and
ystem or clearing agreements, begause the settlantn
ifficult owing to the restriction on e free exengo pcu
virous countriee which this country may cguire.
Sixchly, our export cah be expeccci to be malalcined ioh
o la, even at a lign price of our gooda, In view of the vgrlawl
s ortage of commoditis  prescat, but Lo is grea tiy fecpea thitt
y become mucr ucarer in comparison with the interna'tlok.I pricea
tho resent cord sien of bow prod uctlvity of labor in our gountry
continlus in tutur.
The cireumst nces re such nst it wourd become neceasary tha
a productios  v shouli ne ally be r ised nd, beaides the im
by moaezuiced d t mmrkets in the Far East be rege Ined. Ah order
our export industry me: de developed rapidly in future. Ta ordem 
on m ron  i goin  gosd repulc tion in the world murkat ih the
It is  matter of urgency to smert our eforts to Imppove them sube
st atiriiy n to prevons sarictiy aiegu lificd go ds from being e
(3) wact distinguien u tne export Lndustry of our country fram
of a w:r porioa is u: the ex ort of raw silk which was a prIman
el y 1 ar ecport ndatcy at toat tim vill ce diminished ad
pl ced by the expore f a cn n . Hemely. the export of faw eilk a
the perlou 1930-34 anouooud on  avargu to s10, 000 bales a yesr.
we cer po sxpeet to xpoct mor.  n loo, coo bales of raw silk and
approxiuntely tie sime qu itity of silk faurios even in l952, becaud
car mot epset tae arount of  sule in the United States of Amerie
thich was bne cnicf errxot, will be the same as that of a prewar pen
But it is pined ont an export of machinery be increased an
xime tely 1o timce comptr d to the bcsic period. It is because, mmh
Is inemeasingly demanded in the fareign merkets, end its export la
only pecessar ar onomic recovery and the Induatrilization af

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.70)
countrles in tne Far East, ut also It le most suitable for our expont
industry, in viow t ici1 c u stances f our counti where th
're fev mi turei rosourc  nl iir: Loring populasion. I: Beeme, the
or, t e i ortanee  traue vi East A wlon vs verownel
preoonderent f re the w r would b mor scoounted of  f tur. Alth
ropie y machinery   nacal sd  mer woult sill occup
o0 ttolmount f ourpr  come,bo
cn
niimount
rPi1Intlvol issho
1.
roonenroiit villmount to
?
L.
1.
40.
E."
Gnuie nd :ic1ou
2.0
dhi.rtnenwn
:1t.o.
nEr.
o iuff
.7"
A ri cultu. 1, For-s.
7
Aju ticreduct
(inci :i 1: ti.b.r)
J.4
11
7
C1:1
4.1
.

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.94)
28
ranscortation ana Copmunietiona
(1) It is planned that traneportation facild
replaoed and ren vated in the early stages of thd
eo that ths incres se.of production activitros ma
the ater stages. However, it is impossible to rehab
fuctly even after rive ycars, fcr the
(roasr th't hey heve been too damaged and worn out by bu
durirs the war to be rohabilitated with the materials wh
newly inveeted.
Conscquently, in the case of railwey, 
thit i now project shoul not be launched, in principlo, expopt
el ctriiicatien, but matcrils bo solcly allccated to repsir and
coverine.rks.
or n ine transportation, it is plannedthat a merohe
 p monting to 1,oco,coo gross tons will have been buirt du
 wiisl yeare cr the plen.
But it is estimated that it rend
 o:  le tare after 1952 berere we w1l1 have 4,18o.,000 gr0
ch s stahilizetien size ofcurmarine transpertation. We are
is a f ndt entel prlicy  transportation, et the returning to
rmal condition b, means of gradually edopting a system of car
li, care es of wei hty volume and long distance instond of tramen
iren o 1 nd as wo were forced to do during the war. Aceordingly
I vo plan ed tho degree of increaso in transport capucity within
 untry as fellows.
TABLE 9. Rate of increase in trensport
capecity within the country
1948
1949
1950
1951
Stoamship
100.
128
149
167
-Suiling v ssel
rith engine
1.00
113
180
156
Reilway
100
110
119
129

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.75)
30
(2)ccorairr scvomderental policy, t aneunt r
surae t  trareparted
railv l a calccl:tod as f llows:
10.unt f oe b rareported
013
r Pilomatorr
Nsterage
wa co.rted
transre ted
tnikilamot
11,000
(1,000 tor ki1o
(ters)
0,000
,0,000
205
13.
00,700
205
201
11
1
19
t
e fot
a
Lra trea rtin
C.
tb to
i17etrr
19
0984,1 ho8
te
11: ar G.
rtunton
reulf.c
t n efficrenev of freight
number
frolat r 1stimted  160%
(leo rs)  at pur d.
r eff rt amade.to
fi ct axir un p re withir be t t il od metarials but
ttfrtC
tan c  
1
The
ttrtrethathetrno
t. nrta to orriod out rully
Noto

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.91)
80
No.to: Tho indreaso of tranaportation by 
i: accordance with the railway traneportati
 thi reiiwe tranaportaticn may be partly
nopertat.on.
Taus, im crtanco of nond
crpsctr to be increased.
The med transpo
u ed lator in connecticn with the presopoty or
and crude pubber for tyre.
(s) shipcuilding.
Hew, shipbuilding ie plany
-1,000, 000 roes tons (1, 500,000 doad wc1ght tona) nv
c.udi g cergo ships, passonger-cargo ships end olixtan
r ult, th cap city for transperting gocds ia ae folt
TABLE 11.
Nonthly average cargo shiphi
tonrage (1,000 gorss tona)
Eisting Vessels
Nov73n21a
and War-time
Standard Vessels
948
955
81
7949
1,020
260
1950
1,000
455
1951
944
1952
890
wa thore tuble ia the monbhy
and dose not repredontet

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.91)
a mmount to be tranaported in thie
TABLE 12. The Amomt to he
by see
(unith
Coastal Transportation
Cargo ships
Sailing
011
(Including
ships
Tanker Total
cargo pass-
with
engor rhips)
Eng-ne
1948
11,311
27,600 2,000 40,911
1949
14,244
29,739 2,500 46,583146
050
16,675
31,492 2,800 51,14917,995
1921
18,92
34,024 3,200.56,156 21,455
1952
20,924
37,012 3,600 61,53625,273
Acconding to this progrim the fundarantal
rort long distance hecvy goods by goa, taking intor
quilding plan? Thus, in five yearo, doastal
bout dou ldd, whiio transportation by gailde
4x1qramy. imong coastal cargoosy.cea1 4
ooeupying geg of the amount trans ganted by co
sailing ships with. engine in 1952

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.88)
-82
TABLE 13. Lonthly Average Alloment 
Cargo Vossols
(Unit:
Coastal Trad
Neignbouring
Distanoo
Toa
Sca Trade
See Trade
1946
660
€76
1948
765
484
31
280
1950
796
585
74
191
035
645
102
1,582
19
750
105
to: Carr mips cnly.
ne 1llotment, pri rity is siven to the coast
tir , ps i ram e in are ooidered nos with the co
rat  o ror Chana, e heroan end k. ee ltss ant 5ox. fr oter
Only a portion  ch s spare  allet d fin actant or lin
Ithauss i 194s nd it., sene cargo soipe can be spered fom ara
Jin niy hus uch be wil b. a drop un  bue et copparing
the orerttant a trade.
S ine thet prupor ser
f rr tra s "tatn . v rsceu veyago, hipbottom y st 
sid rod. lart.
 t pryreroe, in order to lenso the burdon ef r
clh go 1 in curr ncies and inerete  employment of seenen
il o r cees of p cuesting chartar of foreign shipping.
 11,1. romr stimates cherteriny 500,000 to 1.000,000
tnn.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.86)
Is ie plotuted hare to promoter
mhnt, machsnisation of loading and unlondi
and tpe-hoats, in order to intereaso the tre
roduco the transportation expenses to dope
for traneportati.n.
(4) The ccmmunication
1) It is planred to handfe atetbiial
and 55,000 thqusand psrccls in 1952
4, tho costal handling pen di
and 86% in percel s.
And the aorylcoa sonm
to rocover the level or 1930-54
i1) Elactrical ccmpunicati n
a) City tolephonc
900,000 will be recovered and newly
planned periods, so thot the tota
tol:phonos will be 1,690,000 by 195
b) Private telophone:
450,000 =l11 be rocoverod ara nowt
total rumber will be 760,000,649
c) Long Jistango telrphpaeth
1,040,000 Filemster. of 1ine will
set to improve the Barvfoul
a) Teregpsph:
Talegreph service wdlitbaira
8881

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.81)
dds ebosy verious equl pmamte cad fedrll Rtaa
ana aleo tr order to raise labor productivitt,
lItiea far publio safety, public health, etc. hava
Furthermors, the consarvatidn of land which ia belas
day by day et an eveniinersasing témpó la a matter
yhepefore, our future constructlon works have, tdal
billzation of our land and ns tural resourcog wheh
ls packed. in the reduceu Land. Nemely wel muste garry
edhe tructinns, by coordianting such constructtdns a
oleptricity which is essent ial for the reuabilitabion
and soch facilities of primary industries sayserloul
foreetay lnduetry, and sugh transpontatlon recskit
gmmnnkcutions, and duch roilitles as rosidenoeyho
at orgánizations, and clty pInnaide fnd such facilii
Ayßras river and saad provcation.
liow ever, it ie almost imposeible to compto
tida oodatructioas withid n short time af as
ahd for thls purcoas la takoa knte.ad
anie plan thesc coatruation/a
go nf soonomln redovory,hioa es
expundlng reprodusti
ffop.rocoferd

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.75)
2. Agrieal ture (lncluding forestrg sn: fishery)
of 260,000 ohobu, 1mprovumen t of 2,690,000 cnobu, and the 1ay1
of new foreutry of 1, B40,000 chobu with necsssary roads conathaot
and mooring-b.nds wit . view to increuse oy 30 present flehery mad
tics uap.i ty.
3. Tr neport tion f cillti. In cccordance wi th over-al
traroportitien pre mom the railwaye uquipaent will te rehebilita
9 wll  e lcutrltion of  1.z0 . of  truakriaes
i rder t rve icr portetion eae
withrd t r ii ion ofr plans are reor mafath
m ronoy ti a por  cilitien y iving, priortty to porte 
on 1 on.  idastris ien 
in connccti n itn comnic tion cn coa conatrueien.
ar  piv on ry on ore. ple re mde or pipar
rot nto  i ri.vi tolimi ting dooger fro
t,co  le i c 1.tor  urgest atn
Por tite l nd me prev atlon forestry whi
.20r
iuibecre.
S. Th ho i. The srorte of hoce s up u the ud ot the yo
1947 number S. 700, 000 mion i 1 md o be ru1111. 1n 15 years
A.,  ro i.t uil.  ooc oc no in thc planned peri
Sas ionie dlr nou vrkere nd clo
enmle.

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.86)
ard-yeara wnLle labor pmployment maintaitan
pereectage. Tuat meane, nroductivity of tme labagl
Low aad not exceedlng 40% of the s bandard tears analai
a about 4,000,000 nnemoloyed are est1mated Lcelud
employed. Naturally, uhder the circumatanaes, Sur ala
toward the s peedy recovery of labor prod uctivity, mand
realization of full emeloyment.
*The only way open in the realizatlon of theae two
tradlotony aims could dot panspught exoopt in tha enl
duatlon actlvi blys. Sup oslag that the real inpome of
2.ls 1a tne Level of 120x pf 1980-34, and 1f labbr
aed to a0 of the standand years, the number q uneu
glsynezt sedeme classigied accordrax to ld dstry with
ustrtalstrücthre aad ogmpositiah.
PabLE 14. Numper of Feople mookinz Bmal
1950-34.
311
367395
29.671
22.6

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.80)
4717
biieGervice
1328
2,328
Qtaorn
696
853
outOccupat1on?B5,160
43,595
43.77
Unemployed
1,508
3,811
268
f At thle Juncture, thé most Impor tant protlama aret
preddctiylty will snow a n an usward tendeney asrant
and nsw to relieve the unempàoyed of huge aumben it
The eananrementaof labor productivity is ico-relativerh
katenbaed at livine. At ady ratephat the time when
the yprid, laye tue zreatast'stress upod tmo enaeneshen't
thraazn moderniza. lon-tne cectral popoeltlon rerhtivo
An Frsrte is modarnizatisa-there is every nooesaityabo
apwazy motnmanù of laper liroductivity if ye wouid prow
oftheagon sxadnt" la the aat, In tie gresent progra
a zoaaly s99 izereas. of labor productlvityy byv
sforcot knagatrtandpapucially of expart induatkkt.
tenslybáone adbuatad of the wil to works Judk
Dr the phet nd thpellocatlog pny n

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.81)
a h le arbain bhat
of trouble for oar osmotay
Whhle p3pulati on) is antlolpated in 1952. Needlaea
ment la oy ho moans desirable, but if lts peroadtagoxih
muatianed above, the Govornment can almost absorb It t
agalnat unemployuent, The problem le nov to relleve tae
persone esbimated at threp or fourtmilllon during taatt
trenattion.  The Goverdn. despite ita scanty finehd
fatonde to absorb:e purplus populetian or two milllon d
uhomployment issucocce nd public works
raianal Lacome
A.The roilowin vable represats the above variousplans
vai!p t'er'ms of the xcai' pr Juuetlon aatlonal Lgcome e
pecoreie cxpresslon of productlon level and liveflhood fem
tmo annalt sopo of ryeovery and stracturc of gopomy
femome te the anAal Lncoce of producors of goods ada 
ths: eamo' pricc as tne basic period
PashE 15. Eatimated Real Production

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.84)
39
sebtotal of prímary 6,449
8,938
5,537
o Inustrls.(1o0)
(51)
(5)
(86)
Souns; ortation
062
1.220
1.352
1.482
(100)
(142)
(167)
(170)
(187)
Commerec
2.494
1,771
2,095
2,394
2.669
(100)
(71)
(84)
(96)
(107)
Pabli. Seriv, I heral
Prof. 1on Ot r 2, 347
1,587
1,691
1,336
1,363
Dariv livo I. con
00
(68)
(72)
(34)
Totel f Thl dl
5.:03
4,08
5.130
5,712
6.247
Indus icu.
00)
(0)
(50)
(100)
1104
Ager.
13, 34
3,26
,36 11,249
12.440.136
Nat1
1T
(OO)
(21)
(92)
(101)
Amour f I m
10
134
15
152.
166
per cnits
110C
(59)
(07)
(75)
(52)
(90)
(o)
l8 t iala to the baslo perloq
, o l ic  
10
14.3
iyrul
Fir mis pargod
thot
tいい
rorttonr capy ad i
10 to
gul.
the i s or  ed ldd  c
abn0.
.1.
tpi ril rut
notle tIt oo
velc n li primary ldas
tnat i
a ul r s ic nustry is ompuratively elow ad a
f.r str
minl:
hfurin 1try  cnsiderIy saaprcuous. Tnis is 
m tur:
us
 s  oc
197ra
6" p c  in 1949 of t.. b. sic perlod, it recovers 
mucn:  c.  iv. y  aft. If cl proress is ade as th 
In 19s: 1t wi 1 a rtsinly.  h 100 per c.nt. The gross patisnal pro
wnlon s the ddition of ati ahl ine me and the deprecialpa regalr
t r uci. r presents te total mount o t goo  
domestically curing thet year. These goods and Burvloee i applle
pead lture fieid, to tne cunsu mers exparalture of indamidmls, private
formtion (industrial (ventmnt), finaciad expeagltare and met 

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.80)
and of gobud-aod ser
yom zrom the point of matishal gom
dilavéetpant of the eccumalated eapitaf
gs bru fnvea ment, and tne plans for tao fihdngt
Bomplc ely ptuled in thia plan, the edzaumere espe
hloh s wf mater a I bese of computation eccordth
gade Jr.fo i: and clot.ilags La shown-la table 18.
Iexpenditure of individuels is 1l2g againat the rscoven
Level to lal%. Recovery or cons imer!s expendbbare
recovery d? per capite income to 97%. Thud, tire reppwe
mmn to he slrvutly delayed.
TiHL 16. Satluated Consumers XpendIture
1930-3419431919
P959
(Unit one million
ThaLyidual Canoumers
8,5986,8357,069,4138,4
htfonditure
97
Intx of ditto
Comoumer avexpenai turo
1z9.6
35.4. 92.8101.3
peracapl ta
100
Rex o dltto
tt T heldce of the tiduele pbnsumpthon ih t
anak Inc ome In the Tahle Is is the stirpkua, put
strrel lnvestmenc and gover
thtronl-15set
Hawewpace

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE 1. Ceal for 1988
Average of
Mining and Manufacturing
1000 (A)
1900-1904 (B)
AB
Productions
130
100
130
Coal
44.00(°)
31.173 (°)
141
Crude Steel
3.840 11
2.722 (°)
141
(Ordinary Steel)
(2.300 )
(2.196)
(106)
Cotton Yarn
000.000 (1)
1.157.000(1)
(Spindle installed)
(5.830.000)
(8.608,000)
(73)
Agricultural Product
Money Index
106
100
118
Calorie Index
116
100
116
Rice
67.081 (K)
61.830 (K)
111
Barley and Wheat
24.481 (K)
20.883 (K)
119
Exports
1.646 (Unit-Million dollar)
Imports
1.667 (Unit-Million dollar)
Invaasible Trade
(plus) s
National Inçome
14.88(Y)
12.204(Y)
121
Living Standard
Individual
Consumer's
expenditure
(Par
capital annual)
116.0 (Yen)
120.6 (Yen)
Food per capital per
day)
2.111 oalorie
2.242 calorie
Clothing (per capita aes
annum)
7.4 pound
8.7 pound
NOTE: (•)-Unit-Thousand ton
(1)-Unit-Thousand pound
(K)-Unit-Thousand koku
In view of the fact that
(Y)-Unil-Mililon yen
present mining and manufac-
From the bove Table it will
4. On the other hand, the
turing production are esti-
be seen that the planned goal
level of consumption. as
mated at 40 per cent of the
for the 1952 fiscal year will
viewed from the angles of food
average of 1830-34, the export
not materialize the 100 per cent
and clothing, was estimated as
trade actually amoumts to
recovery to the average figures
minimum consistent with the
around 10 per cent only and
of 1930-34 in respect to the
objective to be ' obtained,
the existence of powerful and
living standard, although the
making an overall survey of
multifarious factors is imped-
balance of international pay-
potential production and im-
ing enhancement of industrial
ments almost attained. And
port, and taking into consid-
activity. it máy possibly be
also the production level will
eration the reasonable ameli-
criticized that for one thing
not be completely recovered.
oration of content of liveli-
the goal is a little too optia
mistic. We are well aware of
This difference is accounted
hood.
for:
The rehabilitation plan is
such criticiam. Accordingly.
1. The present plan has
almed at attaining the self-
it must be noticed that the
been mapped out by taking
sustaining economy at the
realization of the present plan
into account the current sit-
is possible if and when the
uation of Japan's economy and
earliest possible date and de-
following conditions are ful-
her economic polential in the
veloping further on, by con-
fled:
centration of the total national
1. The current inflation
fields of power, mining and
manufacturing production, food
power and the utmost utiliza-
shall be settled within the
and transportation.
tion of indigenous resources.
former half of the planned
From this point of view, if
period and its effed and me-
2. If the real national in-
further longer period is taken
nace to our economic stability
come per capita is to attain in
in the planning. the size of
will not assume such magni-
1952 the same level as 1930-
Japanese economy ought to be tude as will make the execu-
34. agricultural production in
expanded accordingly. If this
tion of the plan impossible.
terms of money index will be
plan is materialized, even pre-
2. The instability, political
105 while mining and manu-
supposing further increase in
and economic, in East Asia
facturing production will be
population, the economic sta-
will be speedily relleved arld
140 per cent of the basic level.
bilization can be virtually
the free exchange of foreign
Owing to the various re-
realized in 1953 and it is
currencies reinstated.
3. Substantial aid from
fcult to raise in 1952 the agri-: of Japan's self-sustaining eco-
foreign countries may be ex-
pected in the process of eco-
105 per cent of the basic level.
(4) The above is a planned
nomic revival and ahe export
Consequently, the calorie in-
concrete goal which we hope
industry and modernization of
dex of 116 is adopted instead
to fulfil by 1952. In so say-
key industries will be stimu-
and more practicable fgure of
ing, we do not mean to assert
lated by foreign credit from
130 per cent of industrial pro-
that the plan, in the light of
private sources.
ductiop was taken in this plans
the prospect of revival year
4. Difficulties in power
with the result that the real
after year, will infallibly
supply and transportation will
national income in 1922 has
materialize and after ave
be solved during the earlier
to be 12 per cent instead of
years from now Japan's eco-
part of the years under pro-
125 per cent of that in the basic
nomy will attain such level
ject, and the achievement of
period. Accordingly the real
as is pictured therein. We
the pian will not be'vitally
income per capita in 1952 will
of tourse believe in the
affected by these factors.
be 97 per cent of that in the
practicability of the plan. In
Every item of these assump-
basic period.
laying down the plan, how-
tlons may seem to be teò has-
3. Accordingly, the pro- ever, we were motivated by
zardous and optimlstic. But, it
ductivity of labor was esti- the desire, more than anything
rust. be emphasised thst this
mated at 90 per cent of the else, to respond to the strong
la an "ideal Shrmula." The
basic period, taking into ac- demand for achievement of
présent plam intende to bring
count the present trend of economic rehabilitation at such
home to the Governmsat alld
affairs and operating capacity quick tempo.
the people the secesetty to
of actual industrial facilities.
change their way of thinking
(But the productivity of labor
antirely, ln order to reltabil-
per hour is 100 per cent of the
Itate our sconomy s abon 
standard year).
peesible.

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.97)
JMCLASSILIED
Enclesure No. 2 to Despateh No.
336 dated Jume 7, 1948 frem the
Office of the Politieal Adviser
for Japas, Tokyo, em the subjest.
"Japanese Boonomic Rehabilitatien
Plan".
( OOPY)
(Free Translation)
CONTENTS OF ECONOMIC REHABILITATION PROGRAM
(The Nihon Keizai Shimbun. May 18, 1948)
The Economic Rehabilitation Program which the Econemic
Stabilisation Board has been mapping out since the days of
the Katayama Cabinet has at last been submitted to the First
Economic Rehabilitation Planning Board as a first tentative
program. The Program which is expected to extend through
five years ending l952 is proclaimed by the authorities
themselves to be a t entative one and to be mothing more than
an indication of the goal of the people's efforts. We hope
that this proclamation was made through their modesty, mot
through their diffidence.
We realise that the mapping out of an economic rehabi-
litation program under the current situatien is one of the
most difficult things to do. Therefore, various amendments
will be, and should be, made to the first tentative program;
for instance, the planned goal of coal output for l94s and
of the induction of foreign capital into Japan will be open
to amendments. As was seen in the case of the successive
Five-Year Plans' made by the Soviets. such a program is
likely to confront many set-backs in the process, which
fact will necessitate amendments as occasion may demand.
It is, therefore, our opinion that n annual program of the
Five-Year Program should be handled in such a way as will
allow the adoption of various conditions the authorities
could not, or failed, to notice at the outset.
According to the Progras, it aims at the recovery of
the living standard of 1930-34 by 1952. This 1s estimated
more moderately than the one found in the Strike Report: it
may be the lowest expectation, and the highest according te
our real ability.
Mow, there will be many ways to realize the Program?
we may push forward straight to the goal: we may proceed
with glant steps at the outset, and then with short steps
on the latter part of the way to the goal: or we may mark
a slew and steady step toward our goal on the first half of
the way, and then great steps forward may be takem. Acoord-
ing to the tentative program, the Government seems to be
intending to restore the normacy of economic conditien in
the first two and a half years, and to enlarge a ceefficiemt
of recovery withim the latter half of the five-year peried.
We will refrain from criticising their ways of proceeding
for the present, but wish to advise the Behabilitatien
Planning Committee to deliberate carefully on the matter in
future.
In
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.95)
mel. Do. 2 to
Tokyo'e No. 336
Jume 7, 1948
IOLASSIFLED
- 2 -
In deciding which way to take, they should consider the
Program as a whole on the one hand, bat en the other hand.
they should consider it frem all anglee sech as, prodmstiem,
empleypemt, export, conemmption, etc. To cite an instamee
of the question of employment, it is needless to say that
they should aim at a complete empleyment, or at the maximm
empleyment, but in carrying it out there lies a serious
questien whether they had better continue the present so-
called 'watered employment', or they sheuld, first of all.
lower the level to a proper one, and then plan a regular
empleyeent.
The Five-Year Program is founded on numerous fundamental
suppositions or assumptions, international as well as demestie:
moreover, the control of them will not be necessarily gained as
they wish: in other words, they should be prepared to fese
numereus wnfereseen conditions. Here is the crex ef the Pregram.
We shall, however, admit that this is the inevitable in view
of the present situation. But we have to call their attentiem
to the fact that the Program lacks the endorsement of various
policies. This is a second weak point in character the Program
betrays, which fact may also be considered to be a weak peiat
of parliamentarism and party government. But in the light that
such a program had often met with many difficulties which pre-
vented it from being realised even under a totalitarias gevern-
ment where the authorities concerned with its executien were
usmally consistent, the lack of endorsement of policies has
made the Progree a mere goal to be imed at, as the aathorities
themselves have declared, not a program in a strict sense of
the word. This is why we maintain that the Govermment sheuld
devote themselves to the materialisation of the Progrem after
making as many amendments as they think proper to the tentative
program.
JNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.67)
The Nihon Keizai Shimbun
May 18, 1948
いおいであるたかく場合によつては五ケ年にと 年問にささるとい、分てくかまたは一な水のの火いているうがある
へり下つて書っているのならさは五ケ年れをとしてまたるはではインフレな前こうな水地し用をそのまく答つしてっさらにれ行のための実に向つての男力を點
な現すものでなくにに伴わねはならぬ年よ
している。それ如立事肖局の自
当つた陽自第一次試ると称その院をよぬかれどそれに
するこの五ケ年み出は、にあるいは実間においてい山との
れた昭和廿七年を年と
した後第一次はくとて明一
本部が中むとなって変ーてい
山の時か定
の内容
經濟復興計國
ているしたなって五ケ年お
見ていそのにおいて
数次にわたる五ヶ年計出の例を
そ事入おそうであ如ソ連の
ないもその一例でありまた外るそのい聞にストライク報呂
たとえは廿三年段の石生あ問することを目にしてい
加えねばならい点ふくない
えられるであろうしまた
今第一次試賞には多くの修正
は手羅中の至事であるかい
て、決五年計面を聞てると
通しか出てられない現在においまたは想定し為なかった件をと見られる点るあスが、たとえの増川を図るかい重吸な相違との第二のい点たるをまぬかれな
の最本的な件がはつきり見らわれず五ケ年計間の押定し後半に回道事と天きくしている誰まで下げてから本格的な確用その点はこのお出が知つ性格上
ようでとしては
め達くして後に俺にするかであてもそれを通成するに現正のよは現なにおいてやを問ないとれ難いた宿あるか政附はと
てりにくするか、または初ないし大ぶのは川はとし
はもの如ろう
であううが、それそ出するに …合的にと同時に年電、通用
ま力から見れば最高のもの
ほく昭和五一九年の生活水池を
附山によると昭和廿七年度に
的に画成しなければならぬ。
現実のこのとして深入れ、動
二
、消なとの各につい
たる曲線を痛くかというとよ
にぬ射する地があうう。いか
は復間変はなとして父後大い
とうかあるいは可側ひうか
そうした回明な回彼がいくか
るとるができよう。しかし
しろは線的な回聞をふらってい
肝ると大においてむ
したしの なく、当のきうように力目
的際件た定あるいは判定して
のそしては本的な前跡的、細内
か大いに此判の余理如ようう
きお、矛肩していないかとう
なる。そして各部回の曲線の猫…い。それは他面から見れば
三
安定本部問の性格的な点と
されようとも服本的にまいか
あの罪ぬよいというは五
ない点から見て、面計問に
山底の川当者が不変の場合に
るが主のように
確間から不可遊的なものではあ

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No.
JMCLASSIPIER
326 dated June 7, 194s frem
the Office of the Pelitical
Adviser for Japan, Tekye, e
the sabject, "Japanese Bosmomie
Rehabilitation Plam".
( COPY )
(Free Translation)
IMMEDIATE ESTABLISHMENT F "THE PROGRAM" IS DESIRED
(The Asabi himbum. May 18, 1948)
It has long been keenly felt that a long-range program should
be established for the rehabilitation of economy in Japam. With
the inauguration of the Economic Rehabilitation Planning Cemmittee
by the Govermment, the first tentative economic rehabilitation
program mapped out by the Bconomic Stabilisation Board has beem
made public. This has a deep significance toward the future of
the rehabtlitation, and the people should clearly understand the
course they should take regarding economy.
The post-war economic conditions in Japan have been ia a state
of confusion, and the results of various policies have falles
short of our expectations: the production of mining industries
has been nothing but 30 or 40 per cent of that in pre-mar times:
nevertheless, the progress of inflation has been so rapid that the
Japanese ecomomy, if left as it is, is in danger of falling into
an unfathomable abyes under press from under-produotion and
inflation. Fortunately, the probability of inducting foreign
capital into Japan has brightened our future proepecte: but, in
order to make most use of the capital, a rehabilitation plan should
be established before everything. If we could not forecast the
future, the foreign capital might be used up without contributing
mmoh, and the chances for rehabilitation would be delayed all the
more.
In this sense, it is quite opportune that the Boenomie Re-
habilitatiom Progrem is going to be investigated. The greet res-
ponsibility sits upon the shoulders of the committee cenceraed.
It is inadmissible for them to approve an original draft after
perfumctory deliberation. The people are expecting that the
committee will have heated discussions but hold to high ideals
and in accordance with the real economic situation. As to the
organisation of the committee, the representative members of the
Government and capitalists occupy an overwhelming majority and
only a few scholars and two representatives of the labor are
found among the members. It is hoped on this occasion that the
unions will try to realise standing claims by submitting positive
and constructive plans one after another besides advancing their
critical opinions.
We can easily see that the Progrem is pretty hard to realise
becanse it is aiming at an increase of threefold in mining produst-
ien, of ninefold in exports, of threefold in imports, of twofold
in labor productibility. and of twofold in people's inoome. These
are two ways of establishing a leng-range programs one uses supply
as a basis and the other demand. The Bconomic Rehabilitation
Program
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
Eesl. Ne. 3 to
Tokye's No. 326
Jume 7, 1948
DNCLASSLFIER
Progrem, however, may be called a compromise plan and may pass as
a practical one. But, in this case, the nature of varieus cerollary
conditions should be scrutinised.
First of all, the condition that inflation will be settled
within the first half of the five-year period and that 'a stabilising
panic' which may follow the settlement will exercise little influense
on the carrying out of the Program is open to diseussion. Needless
to say, economic stabilisation is not to be hoped for without curremey
stabilisation. Regarding this, we should like to point out that the
Rehabilitation Program, though elaborately mapped out in point of
goods and materials, does not clarify relations with curreney. This
is one of the weakest points in the Program. We cannot be optimistio
before it is clarified what prospects they have regarding the adfast-
ment of inflation and the situation with respect to a financial pre-
gram and an industrial fund program which are compatible with a
production program. And the above must be related to the inductien
of forein capital.
Furthermete, it is planned that efforts be concentrated on the
renovation of transportation facilities in the early stages of the
planned period so that fatal consequences may be avoided. This, we
should think, is the most difficult point to be confronted in carry-
ing out the Rehabilitation Program. If they lay emphasis on basie
departments when the demand for consumer products inoreases on one
hand, it is likely to cause various kinds of frictien. Fundamentally.
we agree to the idee thst mach importance should be attached to the
ronovation of transportation facilities. But in order to carry this
through, they should import a considerable amount of consumer prodacts.
The conception to attach more importance to the engineering
industry than to the textile industry is of deep significance, but
as to the question of employment, it leaves some room for consideration.
The question of employment is one of the weakest points found in the
Rehabilitation Program. In connection with the Rehabilitation Progrem,
it is an important matter to establieh an adequate counter-measure
against unemployment.
As soon as the Program is carried into execution, the fundamental
functions of economy should necessarily be put under strict control.
Now, to obtain perfect centrol, reinvestigation of controlling
methods is eseential: this is one of the most simificant economic
probleme to be solved in Japan.
It is our ardent desire that the Committee should fully sorutinise
the abovementioned points so that the Rehabilitation Progrem may not
end in smoke. The future of Japan depends entirely upon whether the
Rehabilitation Program will be established perfectly or not.
UNCLASSIFIER

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.74)
The Asahi Shimbun
May 18, 1948
いことであ、このはある。しこの見しがえられ このとらて的の えであるが、そのの の入とひつくくきのの日本のしてのういても
立皇む
 い      P  

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.98)
Enc'4
Yomiuni
NIPPON TILES:
May 19, 1948
half of the five-year period.
PRESS COMMENTS
Third, the plan gives the im-
pression that its drafters took
Tueeday, May 18
too easy-going a view legard-
ECONOMIC
REHABILITA-
ing the prospect of putting an
TION PROGRAM
and to inflation. On the as-
YOMIURI—The frst draft
sumption that inflation will be
of the Five-Year Economic
settled during the former half
Rehabilitation. Program map-
of the five-year period, the
ped out by the Economic, Sta-
drafters apparently minimix-
bilization Board has been
ed the effects which inflation
and "stabilized depression"
made public. Embracing the
will exert upon the impleinen-
comprehensive and funda-
tation of the program. An
mental measures for econo-
early end of infiation is to-be
mic rehabilitation, the pro-
piously wished for but objen-
gram is of great significance
tive conditions for such a hope
because the goals set forth in
are extremely weak.
it will enliven the people's
The five-year plan cannot
hope for the future and spur
be considered more' than "a
their efforts to attain the ob-
tentative goal: it bardly war-
jective.
rants the name of a program.
Any
economic program,
This does not mean, however,
however must be based on a
that the program is utterly
concrete foundationand
meaningless because it is
solidified with concrete and
wor'thwhile to set a tentative
sure ways and means to
goal and make the greatest
achieve its end. A mere plan
possible efforts to attain it.
is worthless.
The ESB program shguld not
Viewed from this standpoint,
be overestimated but, at the
the five-year program is de-
same time, it is inadvisable
fective and insuffcient in
to underestimate its 'value.
many points because it is a
typically Japanese'product of
sheer calculation, devoid  of
the'concrete ways and means
to attain its objective in the
actual economic framework
present in this country.
First, the plan fails to men-
tion the amount of foreign
credits deemed necessary to
realize the prògram and when
and how much of such for-
eign aid is considered neces-
sary at a given time.
Second, it gives no idea of
the monetary planning en-
visaged. An economic pro-
gram minus monetary plans
is inconceivable.Further-
more, the metter is aggravat-
ed because the program hypo-
thesizes that inflation will be
stabilized during the former

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
o Line May 19, 1948
SIGNIFICANCE OF
ECONOMIC RE-
HABILITATION. PROGRAM
MAINICHI—The ESB pro-
gram for economic rehabili-
tation takes an extremely re-
served, almost timid, attitude
in some respects but in other
points, it is very soft and bold.
This impression is apparently
accentuated by the fact that
while dealing with the mat-
ters involved relatively min-
utely, the program, contains
many unknown factors in its
premises and conditions.
Whereas the realization of a
program of this magnitude
naturally requires an enór-
mous private capital or pub-
lic finance funds, the five-year
plan remains ambiguous re-
garding the relations between
such capital and distribution
of national income. It also
gives only brief mention to
the housing problem-an is-
sue as important as food and
clothing in the light of the
increasing population.The
ESB plan is vulnerable  in
these points as was the war-
time Material Mobilization
Plan.
Setting aside these defects,
the significance of a rehabili-
tation program of this kind
should not be underestimated
and we do not begrudge our
respect to the efforts' rendered
by the drafters of the program.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
NIPION THRES:
May 20, 1948
The Five-Year Plan
This turn of events prompted
This statement is of
the Japanese authorities to re-lar interest also be
examime the economic recóm
On Monday the Government
struction program which
the ERPC hopes to reach
made public a draft plan de-
been prepared earlier by
goal by、 1952, wheres-th
signed to restore Japanese
ESB.
Strike Report has set 19
economy to approximately the
As the Government it
its "target year." Rome
1930-34 level by 1952. This
has pointed out, the present
not built in ome day,
five-year program for econo-
plan is not a final draft, and
âve years, and im viey
mic recovery submitted to the
the Econumic Rehabilitation
diffculties it may be
Economic' Rehabilitation Plan-
Planning Committee may fnd
move back the tarse
ning Committee is not a final
it necessary to make numer-
In an, explanatory
draft, and requires consider-
ous adjustmests. One of the
tached to the fivey
uble examination before it can
first items which should go
be put into effect. But it is
under the scrutiny of the
the first definite "target" at
ERPC in the plan should lbe
the goal in 1932 would only
which the entire productive
the setting of the estimated
signify the schievement of the
energy of the nation can be
Japgnese population in 1952
directed. In that respect, the
at a2,920,000. Even the Striko
covery program. This state-
recevery plan should be wel-
Report, which surveyed Japan'
ment should be sufficient food
comed.
industrial reparations problem,
for serious thought to those
The Government in an- has estimated that the Japa-
nouncing the draft plan has nese population in 1953 would
made it clear .that economic be apprcximately 85,800,000.
planning of any scale is use-
If it should be determined The very idea of a ve-year
less without economic aid
that the population estimate in plan to reach the 1930-84 level
from abroad and the unstint-
the Government's draft plan should make it clear that the
ed cooperation and efforts of
the people. The five-year pro-
revision should be made, all
hard work and the utmost
gram consequently has taken
"targets" including production,
effort from every citimen.
into account, in. its caloula-
employment, trade, transpor-
It is to be hoped that the
tions of the targets for the tatiom, food, and other factors
various phases of national life, wuuld have to. be revised ac-
unwieldy staff of more than
rough estimates of the expect-
cordingly. The Strike Report,
ed foreign credits and the pre-
for instance, upon its estimate
quate measures to draw up a
sumed willingness of the en-
tire citizenry to work. The
has concluded that the 1930. recovery.
goals determined under the
34 level is insuffcient and has
plan may thus seem ambitious.
thus indicated that an economic
It'chould be explained here
level closer to the 1937 level
that the drafting of this long-
might be more suitable to
range plan was started in July,
place.Japan on a self-sustain.
last year, at the outset of the
ing besis.
Katayama administration by
But-an upward revision of
the Economic Stabilization
the tärgets fur 1952 without
Board as an idealistic formula
a realistic study of the actual
for economic recovery. It was
productive capacity of the na
completed in January but
tion is not without its dangers,
shelved with the change in
Tor an impossible goal may
the administration. The con-
defeat the very purpose of the
tinued reliance of Japan upou
recovery . program. On this
the United States, wh'ch has point, the Strike Report has
already cost the American
pointed out that "the problen.
taxpayers $40,000,000, however,
of restoring the economy of
prompted American leaders
recently to investigate the
prospects of placing this ccun.
Jow standarde of 18se-34, ia
try on, a self-supporting basis.
enie of enormous difficulty."

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIER
Enclosure No. 7 to Despatch No.
326 dated June 7, 1948 from
the Office of the Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, e
the subject, "Japenese Bcenemic
Rehabilitation Plan".
( COPY )
( Translation )
ECONOMIC RECOVERY PROGRAM
Akahata - May 21, 1948
An economic recovery program has been published by the
Government. The program aims at restoring the Japenese econosy
to a stage where living expense per capita per year will be 90
per cent, the clothing supply 85 per cent, and the food supply
94 per cent (2,111 calories) of the 1930-34 base period. The
progrem does not aim at the attainment of a higher level.
What we cannot overlook is the fact that the program does
not aim at the procurement of 2,340 calories as prescribed is
the Strike Report. INABA, who mapped out the program, says that
the program can be drawn up in varlous weys. Thes we can say
with confidence that the present program has not been mapped
out for elevation of the livelibood of working people. It is
one of the monopolistic capitalists' policies.
low
While aiming at keeping the nation at so/a level, the pro-
gram envisages an increase of national income to l2l per cent
of the 1930-34 level, or a 35 per cent increase of the present
purchasing power of an individual consmer. The profits of
enterprisers will increase at the same rate. As a result.
the ruling class can amass fortunes snd the working people
will become poor.
Can the working people clad in rags attain a decent standard
of living? No. The program points out that labor productivity
should be doubled.
Reconstruction efforts are to be extended toward transpor-
tation facilities and forest and river improvements, but there
is no large-scale plan for industrial reconstruction. Thus, as
a result of the patchwork reconstruction of the wartime,
aggressive industrial structure, tremendously heightened efforts
will have to be demanded of working people. This is a mmch worse
waste of labor efficiency than that demanded of labor under the
Tenno system. As a supreme demand of the State, this program
constitutes a whip to the working people. We wust make up our
minds anew.
In regard to the industrial structure, a relative decrease
in the textile industry and progress in the machinery industry
are remarkable. JAPANts prewar industry was maintained by export
of textiles and import of raw materials consumed for war purposes.
Whatever the purpose, industry is to have nothing to do with
the promotion of public welfare.
Coal and steel production in particular are to be iasreased
by 40 per cent of the 1940-34 level. During this base peried
Japanese war industry had already become active. Nevertheless,
leaders
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.94)
mel. No. 7 to
Tokyo's No. 326
Jme 7, 1948
UHOLASSLPIED
leaders of cartels were mbarrassed by the too high eutput of
iron and steel. Mhy is it necessary to make such a big increase?
Farming people were oppressed by high temant rents befere
the war. They are to contimue to be oppressed by mams of the
food delivery system, which forces them to sekl their predasts
to the government at prices lower than actual cost. The possible
vicious spiral of delivery, decrease in the farmers' enthesiasm
for farming, less farm products, and the intensified delivery
system will certainly impede the rehabilitation ef farm predse-
tion and establish the basis for the low wage system md depend-
ney on foreign countries for good.
Thus, we may say that 1952 will see the Japanese industrial
structure revived along with the Emperer system with certain
changes. This is the dresm of JAPAN's monopolistic capitalists.
With this dreem, they intend to ask for, and fix the ameunt of.
foreign capital to this country.
In view of the technical dafects that the progrem contains,
their dresm, however, will mot be realised. In that case, the
geal or the objeotives of the progrem will be forcibly attained
by lowering the living standard of the nation.
UHCLASSIPIER

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.95)
UMOLASSLEIER
Enclosure No. 8 to Bespatch No.
326 dated Jme 7, 1948 frem
the Office of the Pelseßeal
Adviser for Jopm, Tekye, m
the subject, "Japanese Bosnsmis
Rehabilitation Plam".
( COPT)
(Translation)
REGULATIONS OF JAPANESE BOONOMIC REHABILITATION PLANNIEG
COMMITTEE
Apri1 28, 1948
Article 1 - The Committee of Economic Rehabilitatiom of Japem
(to be called "The committee" hereunder) shall be
in charge of the following matters concerning the
plans for economic rehabilitation of this countryt-
Collection and compilation of basic
data.
b.
Investigation anddeliberation.
Formulation of rehabilitation plans.
Formulatien of reports and reoemmende-
tions to the President of Boonomie
Stabilisatien Board, in case necessary.
Article 2 - The Committee shall consist of one chairmem, eme
Deputy Chairman and a number of Committee members.
Temporary committee members may be added in case
it is found necessary to investigate and deliberate
the special matters.
Article 3 - The President of Bconomic Stabilisatien Board shall be
the Chairman of the Cemmistee. The Directer Gemeral
of Economic Stabilisation Board shall be the Deputy
Chairman of the Committee. Members of the Cemmittee
and the Temporary Committee members shall be appolated
by the President of Economic Stabilisatien Beard
from among the officials of government offices con-
cerned and persons of learning and experience.
Article 4 - The Chairman of the Committee shall preside over the
affairs of the Committee. The Deputy Chairman shall
assist the Chairman and shall act on behalf of the
Chairman in case the Chairman be incapacitated.
Article 5 - Specialist members may be appointed to the Committee
in order to investigate and deliberate the special
matters. The Specialist members shall be appoiated
by the President of Boenomic Stabilisation Board
from among the officials of govermment offices
concerned, and persons of learning and experience.
Artiole 6 - Sub-comittee shall be established in the Committee.
Sub-committee shall censist of one chairman assigsed
by the Committes Chairman, a number of the Committee
members and specialist members.
Article
UNCLASSIFIER

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.94)
l . 8 to
Tekyo's 336
Jume 7, 1948
UNCLASSIFIER
- 2 -
Article 7 - The Chairman of the Committee shall call the cmmittee
meetins and preside the meeting. he Chairmen afthe
Sub-ßemkittee shall call, with the appreval af the
Ghairmem of tse Gemmittee the Sab-Committee meeting
and preside the Sub-Committee meeting.
Article 8 - A mumber of councillors shall be appeiated te the
committee. The coumcillors shall be appeiated  the
President of the Bconomic Stabilisatien Beard frem
among the officials of Goverment offices amd persems
of learning and experience. The Councillors shall
handle the matters relating to the oommittee meetings
under the command of the Chairman.
Article 9 - Secretariat shall be attached to the Committee. The
Secretariat shall prepare data and original plem esd
handle the general affairs concerning the Committee.
The secretariat shall consist of a Secretary-Gemeral
and a mumber of Secretaries.
Members of Japanese Boonomic Rehabilitatien
Planning Committee
April 21, 1948
Ecomomic Stabilisation Board
Chairman
President, E.S.B.
Hitoshi Asbida
Deputy Chairman
Director General. B.S.B.
Takee Kurusa
Member
Deputy Director General,E.S.B. Teiso Horikoshi
Chief of Secretariate.B.S.B.
Takayuki Tamamoto
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Foreign Affairs
Seijiro Yoshisawa
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Finance
Uichi Noda
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Agriculture & Forestry
Snigetaro Sassgame
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Commerce & Indnstry
Seitare Okamatsn
Director General, Board of
Trade
Kotare Nagai
Director General, Coal Board
Hidenosuke Sano
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Transportation
Sadanori Shimeyame
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Communication
Iyoichi Sasuid
Vice Minister, Ministry of
Labor
Leiichi Toshitake
Engineer-General, Board of
Reconstraction
Chukyo Iwaseme
Vice Chairmam, Natural
Resources Committee
Srumichi Uchida
Secretary-General, Statistics
Committee
Eyokichi Minsbe
UNCLASSLFLER
Ti0e

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.95)
Rmal. No. 8 to
Takye's 326
June 7, 1948
UECLASSIFLER
Vice Chairman, Landing Planning
Cenference
Eyutare Marakimnt
Chairman, Political Investigation)
Board of Socialist Party
Mosaburo Sasail
Chairman, Bconomic Rehabilitation)
Conference
Chairman, Political Investigation
Board of Democrat-Liberal Party
Shigeo Sade
Chairman, Political Investigation
Board of Democratic Party
Heitaro Inagaki
Chairman, Political Investigation
Board of People's Co-operative
Party
Takiso Matsumete
Eyokufu Club (House of Councillors) Tetsu Ome
President, Bank of Japan
Hisate Ichimada
Chairman, Association of Economic
Ichiro Ishikawe
Organisation
Chief, Institute of Acquatic
Produots
Beike Ide
Chairasm, Japan Cotton Spinning
Association
Bunpei Hori
Chairman, Agriculture Rehabili-
tation Conferense
Seiichi Takata
President, Nippon Hassoden I.I.
Bichi Onishi
Chairman, National Congress of
Industrial Union
Maketo Kan
Secretary General, National
Federation of Laborer
Michi Imije
Professor, University of Commerce
Ichiro Makayame
President, Ecomomie Rehabilitatien
Kodan
Eiso Nagasaki
Chairman, Japan Trade Associatien
Lumakichi Nakajime
Chairman, Japan Coal Association
Eyoichi Yamekame
Professor, Tokye University
Niremi Arisema
Director, Japem Ship Owners
Association
Sninsuke Asse
President, Bankers Association
Kiichire Sate
Chairman, Machine Industry
Association
Busabure Sate
President, Agricultural Central
Bank
Motoi Yukama
Chairman, Japan Iron and Steel
Steel
Takashi Mild
Shigete Toure
JNCLASSIFIER

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.97)
NI1:C: TINC:
bay 18, 1948
5-YEAR RECOVERY PLAN
Draft of Measures Compiled by Eoonomic
Stabilization Board Released
(Followinz nearly a year of in-
Goal of Rcomomic
The above estimates of!
Stabilizaiton Board has nally
tensive effort. the Economic
Rehabilitation
population have been made by
formulated a draft plan aiming
(1) Under what circum- the Population Problem Imsti-
at the rehabilitalion of Japanese
stances, may we call our eco- tute of Ministry of Publle
economy which wili be presented
nomy substantially "stabiliz- Welfare. According to the re
to the Economic Rehabilitation
Planning Committee (due to start
ed"?
sult of the census revealed
functioning on May 17, for de-
The concrete scale and recently, the Japanese pop-
liberation In releasing the text.
structure of the "stabilized ulation on October 1, 197, w
the ESB has been careful to
stress that the plan is aimed at
economy" differ according to 78,620,000 which marked. an
economie recovery only to the
the concepts of the "proper" increase of around 6,000,000
frist stage of rehabilitatlon and
standard of living and the after the end of the war. The
not complete rehabilitation. Since
"appropriate" level and struc- major portion of the above
the complete document is of con-
siderable bulk. the Nippon Times
ture of industries. But, gen-
increase consists of the repa-
is presenting a condensed version
erally speaking. the following
triates from abrosd, bes the
today .. Editor
in nve instalments beginning
four conditions must be satis-
natural increase during 1947
fled before the economy is
was around 1,850,00 which
deemed stabilized.
is far more than the poak of
Introduction
1. Livelihood of the people
1,130,000 in 1941.
The economic crisis in post- is stabilized on a reasonable
In order to get interpational!
war Japan is characterized by standard of living.
receipts and, payments well
so-called under-production and 2. Export is enough to meet balanced. or in order to -
inflation. It is not a temporary the import of foodstufts. in- able us no longer to depend
confusion due to the conversion' dustrial raw materials and economically upon forelgm aid
of our economy from wartime other necessary goods. In but stand on our own foet in
to peacetime structure. But it
other words, the balance of the 1952 fiscal year, it will be
is a crisis deeply rooted in the
international payments is esential that the goal should
thorough destruction and re-
maintained.
be set for our foreign trade
trenchment of the foundation!
3. Level of economy is, to export such velume of goods
of our economy due to the de-
raised and well-balanced as will counterbelance the
feat in war. The greatest
structure of various component import of commodities need-
problem of this country at
parts of economy is realized. ed to maintain both the pro-
present is to overcome this
so that the above conditions, duction level and living stan-
economic crisis and stabilize!
1 and 2, may be satisfled.
dard of this country. At the
our economy as soon as possi-
4. Emciency of labor, or same time, productivity of
ble. For this purpose, it is
productivity of labor is raised: labor should at least be re-
necessary to draw up a blue- and full employment is, if pos- stored to the level of the besic
print and set the concrete goal. sible, realized.
period.
of rehabilitating the destruct-
(2) Mean population in
(3) After consideration of
ed and retrenched economic 1930-34 in this country was these conditions a well  of
foundation. and thence to put 66,330,000. It is estimated, ac-; the probability of attainment.
into effect the measures to cope cording to the estimation the following major targets of
with the crisis conceived as a adopted in this plan, that our reconstruction have been set
part of a comprehensive reha- population will increase to up under the present tentative
bilitation plan linked with 82.930,000 in 1952. As men- plan to be realized in 1952.
the above blue-print and goal. tioned before, this is an under-'
The Government has decid- statement. And yet it marks
ed to establish the Japanese an increase of 25 per cent
Economy Rehabilitation Plan- against the basic period. Ac-
ning Committee and to submit cepting this estimate, and as-
to it the first draft of the "five- suming that the proportion of
year Plan for Rehabilitating consumption and investment
Japanese Economy" which has remains constant. the real na-
been studied by the Economic tional income must reach 125
Stabilization Board since per cent of that of the basic
August, last year.
period, in order the we may
All the projects have been period, in 1952 the same stan-
made with a view to restoring dard of living we had in 1930-
roughly the standard of living 34.
of 1930-34 by 1952. Ave years The estimated increase in
hence.
our population is as follows:
October 1t. 1948.. 70.800.000
1900....80,806.000
1000.....81.618,600
1908

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.94)
May 19, 194
5-YEAR RECOVERY PLAN
Draft of Measures Compiled by Eoonomic
Stabilization Board Released
(Thie ls the second instalment of the Five-Year Draft Plan for
Japanese Rconomic Recovery recently compiled and Lasued by the
Iconomk stabilizstion Bosrd. Due to lack of spece. the original text
has been perually condensed.-EDITOR)
II
The Besturatson Tempe of
der to increase the generating
Mining and Manufacturing
Prodécttou ia Miming and
power in the dry seasom by
Industries.
Manulacturing lmdussries.
(as agalmul basic perted)
about 970,000 kilowatts. In
(1) The plunned tuiget of
1947
this connection, apecial im-
production of mining and
1948
8.85
portance is attached to the
1040
77.4%
manufacturing industrles has
1980
4.9℃
construction of reservoir sys-
been set ut 130% of the busic
1951
118.8%
tem power plants to prepere
period in consideration of agri-
Note —' (partially estumated).
1952
120.4%
for the dry season.
cultural production and prac-
The production level in 1952
At present. the hydro-elec-
ticability of the plan. There-
will amount to approximately
tric power plants in our coun-
tore. the following industrial three times that at present.
liy have a total generating
scale and structure are adupt- More conspicuous recovery is
cupacity of about 6.000.000
ed  the target of produc- expected in chemical industry
kilowatts., which in the dry
tion.
(especially rayon and chemical
season is reduced 'to about one
Productien Leve' ef Miming and Mamufacturing lmdustrles im 1962.
half. or 3,000,000 kilowatts. This
Domestic Average
decrease threatens the supply
Coal
Description
1.000 1on 44.000
Unit tion
Produc-
5.000
Imports Exports
1.280
Capacity
47,700
Supply
Output
1830-34
31.178
ing the dry season. This is the
of electricity every year dur-
Electric-power
million
reason why we have decided
KWH
37.990
37.920
16.811
on speedy development of all
Ordinary steel
Electric copper
Salt
1.000 10n 2.300
600
1.870
200
2.800
2.520
a6
2.196
000
73
available resources of hydro-
electricity. attaching prefer-
Causte sodu
238
238
8
ence to the construction of re-
Suda aul
158
156
02
servior system power-plants
Cement
Ammonium
4.800
300
4.180
3.057
with a view to augmenting the
sulphate
1.000
y.
120
1.574
382
the supply of electricity dur-
Caleium
ing the dry season. The con-
Cotton van
cyanumide
1.000 10 900.000
400
504.000
306.000
400
1.187.965
200
struction of power- plants.
Ruyon rn
210.000
140.000
70.000
81.170
however. cannot be completed
Staple Abre
100.000
48.106
117.806
1.247
in a short time. The best we
Woullen and
Worsted yurn
123 300
40.000
83.300
03.741
may accomplish by 1952,  -
Nute - trate ammonium
cordance with the present plan.
The comparison between
fertilizer), Metal industry (es-
will be an increase of dry sea-
this industrial structure and
ison generating power by about
pecially iror. and steel) and
that in the basic period re-
970,000 kilowatts which by far
Ceramic industry than in
teals that the relative decrease
falls short of such increese of
others.
in textile industry and the de-
(3) Now. we shall state the
power supply as required to
velopment of mechanical in-
principal plans for different
overcome the shartage during
dustry and chemical industry
departments of industries.
the dry season. In the mean-
mark the majoi change in its
1. Power:
time, some restrictions. are
sti ucture.
In order to realize the pro-
anticipated on the required in-
The chang in the indus-
duction target of 44,000,000
crease of thermal electric
tral sti ucture embodied in the
tons for 1952, we must increase
power supply on account of
outpits of respective industries
the coal productiom by about
many oid power plants going
as compared with those in the
15,000.000 tons over and above
to the scrap heap. Diffculty
basic period are shown here-
the estimated production in
like this cannot be overcome
under
1947. Moreover. 12.800,000 tons
even when we may make the
Textile industry
out of the 44,000,000 tons stated
most of all the present therm-
(Colton industrv)
86
al electri power supply equip-
(Silk industiv)
Mechanical industry
208
376
above is to be produced
through the development of
ment.
Chemical industry
Mining industry
2184
1535
new coal mines and new coal
2. Iron and Steel:
Since the immediate pro-
Ceramic Industry
Sundry industries
Metal industry
Food Industry
141
100%
1π
fields.
power supply. we have decid-
ed on all possible measures.
For augmentation of electric
iron ore, pig irom and serap
terials such as coking omal.
spect of import of raw me-
(2) In order to attain this
In the case of hydro-electric
are not so favorable, out target
much of structure and pro-
power. all available electric
of production. fer the 1083
portion. starting from the pré-
power resources are to be de-
flecal year is axed at 3.840,8s0
sent low level of 40% of that
in the basic period. the pro-
veloped as quickly as possible.
and by the Ascal year 1952.
period) of crude steel, 2.see.-
tons (141 % of the in the beake
duction must be vigorously
new power plants are to be
000 tone (100% of that te the
activated yeur by yoar with
constructed at 9s places in or-
basic period) of endlmary rell-
great haste.

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.95)
NIPPON TIMES:
May 19, 1948
5-YEAR RECOVERY PLAN
Draft of Measures Compiled by Boonomic
Stabilization Board Released
(This s the second instalment of the Five-Year Draft Plan fer
Japanese Economic Recovery recently compiled and lasued bý the
Economi Stabilisation Board. Due to lack of spece, the original test
has been partially condensed.-EDITOR)
The. Restoratien Tempe of
der to inerease
Mining and Manufacturing
Manufactaring Industries.
power in, th
Industries.
(as against besle periéd)
about 970,
(1) The planned target of
1947
this conned
production of mining and
1048
1948
portancela
manufacturing industries has
1980
94.9%
been set at 130% of the basic
1961
118:8%
period in consideration of agri-
Note:—• (partially estimated).
1962
129.4%
for the dry
cultural production and prac-
The production level in 1952
ticability of the plan. There- will amount to approximately
fore, the following industrial three times that at present.
scale' and structure are adopt- More conspicuous recovery is
capacity
ed as the target of produc- expected in chemical industry
tion.
(especially rayon and chemical
season is reduced to
Preductien-Lever of Mining and
half, or 3,000,008 kilo
Domestic Average:
decrease threatens the
Produc-
Supply
Output
of electricity. every y
Coal
Description
1,000 ton 44,080
Unit tion
5,000
Imports Exports
1,260
Capacity
47,780
1830-94
31.178
ing the dry season.
Electric-power
million
KWH
37,980
37,900
16,811
Ordinary steel .
1,800 1on 3.300
200
2,000
2,196
available resources of
Electric copper
Salt
660
1,870
2,530
electricity,attachins
Caustic soda
238
238
80
ence to the consti
Soda ash
158
158
servior system powe
Cement
Ammonium
4.500
4,180
3,687
with a view to augm
sulphate
1,000
94°
120
1,597€
328
the supply pf ejectrie
Calcium
ing the dry s
Cotton yarn
cyanamide
1.000 1b6 900.000
450
504.000
306,000
1,157,906
struction of
Rayon yarn
210.000
140,000
70,000
81,170
however, cannot.be
Staple äbre
100,000
48.105
117,806
1,267
in a short time. The
Woollen and
Note:—• (nitrate ammonium)
Worsted yarn
123.300
40,000
83,300
98,741
cordance with-the pre
The comparison between
fertilizer), Metal industry (es-
will be an incred
this industrial structure and
pecially iron and steel) and
son generating
that in the basic period re-
Ceramic industry than in
970,000 ko
veals that the relative decrease
falls
others.
in textile industry and the de-
(3) Now, we shall state the
power su
velopment of mechanical in-
principal plans for different
overcome the sh
dustry and chemical industry
the dry.sesson.
departments of industries.
mark the major change in its
1.  Power:
time, some
structure.
In order to realize the pro-
anticipated en the
The changts in the indus-
duction target of 44,000,000
crease
trial structure embodied in the
tons for 1952, we must increase
power
outputs of respective industries
the coal productiom by about
many old
as compared with those in the
basic period are shown here-
15,000,000 tons,over and above
the estimated production in
to the
like this ca
under:
1947. Moréöver, 12,800,00q tons
Textile industry
84%
out of the 44,000,000 tons stated
(Cotton industry)
85%
(Silk industry)
375
above is to be produced
Mechanical industry
208%
through the development of
Chemical industry
215%
new coal mines and mew coal
Mining industry
Ceramic industry
138%
183%
fields.
Metal industry
141%
For augmentation of electric
Food industry
108%
Sundry industries
154%
(2) In order to attain this
much of structure and pro-
portion, starting from the pré-
sent low level of 40% of that
in the basic period, the pro-
great haste.

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.97)
ed steel, and 1,800,000 tons
Cotton yarn production plan-
(144% of that in the period) of
ned for 1952 ia 900,000,000
pig iron. And yet these -
pounds to be realized by in-
gures will be nearly ive times
stalled spindle capacity of 
as large as the results to be
830,000. For attainment:of the
actually attained for the 1947
planned production, we re-
fiscal year.
quire 2,580,000 bales of raw-
During the basic period,
cotton. As much as 0 per
steel production in our coun-
cent of the production is for
try was chiefly operated by
export. Th above-mentioned
using scrap as main material.
production, though falling short
In the present plan, preference
of the average annual pro-
is given to an intergrated
duction of 1930-1934; is near-
operation system providing for
ly. twice as much as the pre-
the production of steel from
sent production.
pig iron considering this sys-
The rayon production for the
tem being superior in heat
flacal year 1952  simed at
control and disposal of by. 210,600,000 pounds, of which
products. The adoption of an 70% is for export. Staple
intergrated operation system fiber: production for 1952, is
providing for the production of planned for 160,000,000 pounds
pig iron and steel in the pre- with 34% of which being in-
sent plan as a rule is founded tended 'for export. This means
on our consideration of the that the total production of
worldwide shortage of scrap.
rayon and staple ber for the
3. Cheifical fertilizer in-
said fscal year will amount
dustry:
to 370,000,000 pounds. In or-
The present plan is aimed.
der te realize the planned pro-
at the attainment'of self-suf-
duction, we require 223,000
ficiency, and export to East-
long tons of pulp, of which
Asiatic regions which are suf-
182,000 long tons is obtainable
fering from shortage of chemi-
at home, but the remaining
cal fertilizers. The planned
40,000 long tons must be im-
production of nitrogen fertili-
ported from abroad.
zer in the fiscal year 1952 will
With regard to worsted
joe 2,050,000 tons, as calculated
yarn, we are planning for-the
in term of ammonium sul-
production of 123,300,000
phate, while the import and
pounds for the fscal year 1952.
export of nitrate ammonium
The above-mentioned figure
for the same fiscal year will be
is nearly as high as our max-
about 94,000 tons (ammonium
imum production attained in
sulphate equivalent) and 120,-
the past, or 155,172,000 pounds.
000 tons respectively, leaving
But, in consideration of its
2.024,000 tons for home supply.
high salability, we, think that
Of the total production of 2-
we shall experience little, dif-
050,000 tons. 1,600,000 tons will
ficulty in finding market there-
be covered by ammonium sul-
for.
phate and remaining 450,000
Demand in the world for
tons by calcium cyanamide.
raw silk is considerably re-
The productive capacity of fer-
duced on account of the com-
tilizer plants which have been
petition with nylon. In the
so far approved' to operate,
present plan, therefore, we
will be at the best about 1.400,-
are providing 'for the export
000 tons of ammonium sulphate.
of 270,000 bales, which corres-
and 400.000 tons of calcium
pond to the 37% qf the pre-
cyanamides in 1952. For the
war figures. Upon realization
production of remaining 200.-
of the above mentioned plan,
000 tons of ammonium sul-
the home supply of textèles
phate and 50,000 tons of cal-
will be as follows:
cium cyanamide, we are de-
Pian fer Textile Consw
pendent on the equipments of
Fiscal yeer A.
(In pound)
B.
C.
other factories whose conver-
41%
2.7
31%
sion into fertilizer works are
53%
3.8
44%
yet subject to the permission
68%
01%
82%
of the allied forces authorities.
1903
10.30
84%
7.4
86%
4. Textile Industry:
Note:
Textile industry will remain
Consumption per heed (Tes
tiles)
as the mainstay of Japan's ex-
B.
Index for 1930-34-100
port industries for years to
C.
Consumption per hesd (Clóta
come. Priority is accorded to
D.
Index for 1980-34-100
ing)
cotton and chemical textile
To Be Continued
production increase, and in
consideration of the speed of
restoration and possible de-
mand abroad, we have plan-
ned for the attainment of the
maximum production.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.95)
NIFPCN TIMES:
May 20, 1948
cluding those imported from
5-YEAR RECOVERY PLAN
food in 1952, we shall have to
Draft of Measures Compiled by Economic
import 4,000,000 tons annually.
Stabilization Board Released
Besides, for a stabilizéd econo-
my, imports of 2,588,000 bales
of cotton, 650,000 bales.of wool
(This is the third instalment of
The per-capita daily intake
2,030,000 tons of iron ore, 9,-
the Draft Economic Recovery Plan
of food in the period 1930-1934
000,000 "koku" of timber, 5,008,-
compiled and issued by the Eco-
nomic Stabilization Board. Due
was 2,242 calories. In 1948 it
000 tons of coal, and 1,870,000
to lack of space, the text has been
will be 1,719 calories or 72
tons of salt are needed in l96a.
condensed.—EDITOR)
per cent of that in 1930-1934;
The payment of these raw ma-
III
and in 1952 it is expected to
terials alone amounts to about
Foodstuffs
reach 2,111 calories and re-
1,000 million dollars by present
(1) Production of staple
cover to 94% of the average
dollar value.
caloric-intake in '1930-1934, al-
food is planned for as follows:
However, the export at pre-
Productiea Plan for Staple Food in 1952.
sent is at a low level of only
Output (B)
10 per cent of that in basic
Area
Output (A)
in 1930-34
AB
years, foodstuff needed even
unit: 1,000
unit: 1,000
unit: 1,000
for the 2.5 "go" rations aré
(1.000 Hectare)
chobu
(1,000 ton)
koku
(1.000 ton)
koku
now being imported at the ex-
Rice
2,889.8
67,921
€1,030
1112
pense of the people of the
(2.983.9 Hec.)
(10.188 ton)
(9.154 ton)
United States.
Wheat. barley ete... 1.770.8
(1.788.5 Hec.)
24.481
(3,140 ton)
20,582
(2,791 ton)
118.9
We will have to ask for a
unit: 10,800
unit: 10,000
considerable amount of for-
kan
kan
eign aid during the period or
Sweet potato
(458.0 Hec.)
454.2
(5,944 ton)
1,586
(3.361 ton)
858
176.5
rehabilitation, since we are in
Irish potato
283.6
820
299
274.2
such condition that we cannot
(296.0 Hec.)
(3,106 ton)
(1.121 ton)
reconstruct our economy with-
As to the measure for in-
though it still falls short of
out large amount of import of
food and industrial materials
stuff in future none will oppose
may be considered to have
in spite of the poor export
the contention that as an ideal,
reached to the standard calo-
capacity.
change should be made from
ric-intake usually required for
The plan has in view the
the present intensive farming
the average Japanese from the
achievement of the exports
commensurate with enough
imports of raw materials for
farming and live stock farm- per-capita daily intake was!
industry and of food to enable
ing. Unfortunately, however, 66.7 grams in 1930-1934, the
us to maintain in 1952 the liv-
ideals do not always coincide plan anticipates 6e grams,
ing standard kept in the basio
with reality:
meaning an improved combi-
periods.
(2) If, in addition to the nation in food consumption.
aforementioned production, the
Fereign Trade
imports shown in table A be
possible, per-capita intake of
(1) In the basic period the
will be as shown in table B (amounted to 1,800,000 tons in-
TABLE A. Plan for Imperts of Foodstaßs.
1948
1940
1950
1951
1968
Staple food (Unhusked wheat
(Unit: 1,000 tons)
equivalent)
2,014
2.331
2,005
2,061
3,980
Fats and Oils material ex-
cept soya beans .......
200
316
336
336
306
250
291
327
391
441
Sugar
Fats and olls
14
5
304
15
351
34
341
34
349
34.
TABLE B. Standard per-Capita Istake of Peed per Dáy.
Calories
potatoss)
(A)
(B)
B/A
over-all (cereal &
Protein.
Protein
calories
calories
T.
ST.
(%)
1930-34
2.242
1,840
06.7
11.7
18
(100)
(100)
(100)
(100)
1948
1,719
1,841
51.9
7.9
16
(7)
(84)
(T3)'
(68)
1949.
1,868
1,006
85.3
8.9
(82)
(87)
(3)
(76)
1950
1,885
1,623
sa.0
10.4
(85)
(88)
(81)
(00).
1951
1,934
1,644
61.0
11.5.
(86)
(00)
(91)
(98)
1963
2.111
1.001
68.0
18.9
(94)
(00)
(103)
(110)

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
1930-34 amounted on an aver-
Export Plan in 1952.
Value
age to 510,000 bales a year.
Commodities (Unit-Million Dollars)
Rermarks
But we can not expect to ex
Textiles:
906
Cotton Products
485
542,000,000 pounds
port more than 100,000
Rayon & Staple Fibre
213
169,000.000 pounds
of raw silk and approximet
Raw Silk & Silk Goods
64
200,000 bales (ine raw aikk)
the same quantity
Manufactured Woolen goods.
88
38,000.000 pounds
fabrics even in 1962.
Machinery
334
198,009 metric tons
(in steel)
But it is planmed that
Miscellaneous Goods
64
Chemical Goods
export of machinery
Processed Foodstufts
creased approximately 10 tin
Canned Goods
3,000,000 cas
Agricultural.
Foresting
Aquátic Products
36
It is because, machinery is'in-
Paper
46
198,009,000 pounds
creasingly demanded in the
Rubber Goods
19
sa000 metric tond
foreign markets, and its export
(Raw Rubber)
China & Earthen Wares .....
37
100,000 tons
is not only necessary for eco-
Glasses
23
600,000 cases (Shöet Glees)
nomic recovery and the in-
10,000 tons (Other Glass)
dustrialization of the countries
Others
Coal
in the Far East, but also it is
Cement
most suitable for our export
Total
1,646
industry, in view of the spe-
(2) Firstly, while most of
cial circumstances of our
our export depends on trade
Sixthly, our export'can be
country where there are few
in processing of imported ma-
expected to be maintained,
natural resources and large
terials, we do not have enough
for the time being, even at a
laboring population. Although
materials for it because of dif-
high price of our goods, in
the position which textile goods
ficulties in importing raw ma-
view of'the worldwide short-
hold in export trade should
terials owing to the lack of
age of commodities at present,
gradually be replaced by ma-
foreign currencies. Secondly,
but it is greatly feared that
chinery and chemical goods,
there are bottlenecks of pro-
they may become much dearer
the former would still occupy
duction everywhere such as
in comparison with the inter-
50-60% of the total amount
the shortage of power or trans
national prices, if the present
of our export for several years
portation facilities which
condition of low productivity
to come, because the indus-
causes obstruction in raising
of labor in our country con-
tries of the countries in East
productive activity. : Thirdly,
tirues in future.
Asia are still slow in develop-
there is deficiency in produc-
The circumstances are such
ment. It is estimated in this
tive capacity. Especially the
that it would become neces-
plan that the amount of export
equipment capacity of textile
sary that a produetion level
of textile and machinery may
industry which is the mainstay
should generally be raised
occupy 75% of the whole
of our export, is diminished
and, besides, the indu
amount of ourexport in the
remarkably compared with the
modernized and  markets
fiscal year of 1952. In the fol-
prewar years. Fourthly, the
in the Far East be regained in
lowing table is shown percent-
economic recovery of the vari-
order that our 'export industry
age of each merchandise in
ous countries in the Far East
may be developed'rapidly in
our export trade which will
which are principal markets
future.
amount to 18.4 billion dollars
for our export is progressing
(3) What distinguishes the
in the final year of the plan.
very alowly, and the purchas-
export industry of our country
Textile
ing power of the Far East
from that of a prewar period
Machinery
Miscelfaneous goods ........
is exceedingly limited. Fifthly,
is that the export of raw silk
Chemical and Modical goods
trade is naturally inclined to
which was a primaty element
China and Earthen ware and
be carried on under a barter
in our export industry at that
Glasses
system or clearing agreements,
time will be diminished and re-
Canned. goods and Preet
foodstuffs.
because the settlement of ac-
placed by the export of ma-
Agricultural,
counts is diffcult owing to the
chinery. Namely, the export
Aquatic prod
restriction on a free exchange
of raw silk during the period
of currency of the various
countries which this country
may acquire.

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.95)
May 21, 1948
NI.:CH TIMES:
5-YEAR 'RECOVERY PLAN
Draft of Measures Compiled by Economic
Stabilization Board Released
(This is the sourth instaiment  (2) Accordifng to the above
of the Draft Beonomic Recovery
fundamental policy; the amount
Plan somptled and lasued by the
Due to Tack of space the text
railways is calculated as fol-
has been condensed.-EDITOR)
lows:
Amodnt of Gorda to  Traasparte
IV
Transpertatien, and Com.
36,000.060
munications
(1) It is planned that trans-
portation . facilities be repair-
ed, replaced and renoyated'
Note:—
in the early stages of the.
A. ; Tonnage of goode to be trane-
planned period so that the in-
crease of production activities
may be accelerated in the
later stages.
In the case of railway, it is
portation sajusted by the rallway
planned . that a new project
transporting capecity.
should not be launched, in
The distance-df transporta-
principle, except for eletri-
tion per ton will be shortened
ication, but materials be sole-
by two kilometers every year.
ly allocated to repair and re- until it will be reduced to 167
aovering works.
kilometers in 1952: Compared
As for marine transporta- to thé average 170 kilometers
te, it is plamned that a mer- in 1930-1934, it shows that
chant fleet amounting to 1,000,- there will still remain the
be0 gross tons will have been necessity to transport for fair-
built during the whole years ly long distance. Owing to the
of the plan: But it is estimat- increase in transportationgon-
ed that it requires a cpnsidera-
nage and ton kilometers, and
ble time after 1952 before we insuffcient recovery of opera-
will have 4,180,000 gross tons tion effciency of freight cars,
which is stabilization size of necessary number. of freight
our marine transportation. We cars in 1952 is estimated tobe
are aiming. as a funameptal 180% (121,000 cars), of that of
policy of transportation, at the
the basic period.
returning to the normal condi-
Note: ;The Increase of transpor-
tatlon by. truck, will be required 
tion by means of gradually
adopting à system of carrying
portation incress
by ship cargoes of weighty
volumé and long distance in- partly shifted to the truek tras
stead of trapsborting theff on portation. Thus, importanes of ro
during the war:
portation problem willbe
Rate f Imerease in Tramspert
later in connection with the
Capacity wichia the Ceuntry,
pect of impprt of gasoline and
1948 1940 1950 1961 1062
crude rubber for tyre.
Steamship. 100 188 140 '167 106
Sailing ves-
sel with
engine  100 113 128 136 141
Railway .. 100 110 119 120 137

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.98)
(3) S h i p b u il d in g. New charter of foreign shipping.
short time of several year
shipbuilding
is
planned
Therefore, this program esti-
even if foreign aid forth
amounting to 1,000,000 gross
mates chartering 500,000 to
tons (1.500,000 dead weight
1,000.000 gross tons.
tons) in Ave years including
(4) Communications:
trying to lay a foundation
cargo ships. passenger-cargo
i) It is planned to handle
4.8 billion ordinary pos and
all construction works exp
ships and oil-tankers.
Monthly Average Carge Shipping
65,000 thousand parcels in 1952.
ed to be necessary, for
Tommage. (1, ross tos)
Compared with. 1930-34, the
ing a cultural state.
Existing Vessels
postal handling per capita is
To be more precise, the o
& War-time
Standard
New
87% in ordinary posts and
lines of work planned for in
Vessels
Building
Total
86% in parcels. And the
various sections for the com-
1948
955
81
1.036
service condition is planned to
ing five years stand as follows:
1949
1950
1951
1.020
1,000
944
260
455
638
1.455
1.280
1.582
recover the level of 1950-34.
ii) Electrical communica-
tioned before, plans are made
1. Electric power. As men-
1952
890
830
1,720
tion:
for the new establishment of
Note: Above table is the monthly
(a) City telephone: 900,000
93 hydro-electric power sta-
average of cargo ships and does not
will be recovered and newly
tions and 3 thermal power
represent gures of registered ton-
nage.
set during the planned period,
stations and recondidoning of
The amount to be transport-
so that the total number of
distribution system.
ed in this program is as fol-
the telephones will be 1,690,-
2. Agriculture (including
lows:
000 by 1952.
forestry and fishery). Plans
The Amount to be Tramsperted by Sea
are made for the reclamation
Coastal Transportation
Overseas Transportation
(Unit: 1,000 tons)
of 560,000 chobu of land,
Sailing
: Special
drainage of 260,000 chobu, im-
Ships
Trans-
provement of 2,690,000, chobu,
Cargo
Ships'
Engine
with
Tanker
oin
Total Imports Exports
tion
porta-
Total
and the laying out of new
1948
forests of 1,840,000 chobu with
11.311
27.600
2.000
40.911
9.907
1.771
720
58.300
necessary roads construction
1949
for lumber transportation as
14.344
29.730
2,500
46,563
14.674
2,043
180
63.480
well as for creation of new
1950
16.875
31.492
6
2,800
51,149
17.996
2.472
71.716
fishing ports and mooring-
1951
18,932
34,024
3.200
56.156
21.453
2,946
80.555
bands with a view to increase
1952
by 30 per cent fshery facilities
20.£24
37,012
3,600
61.636
25.273
3,302
90,201
Note: • (Including, cargo pas-senger ships)
(military cargo)
capacity.
According to this program
(b) Private telephone: 430,-
3. Transportation facilities.
the fundamental principle is
000 will be recovered and
In accordance with over-all
to transport long distance
newly set so that the total
transportation program the
heavy goods by sea, taking into
number will be 780,000 by 1952.
railways equipment will be re-
consideration the ship build-
(c) Long distance tele-
ing plan. Thus, in five years,
phone: 1,040,000 kilometer of
habilitated as well as the elec-
coastal cargo transportation line will be recovered and
trification of the 1,200 k.m. of
will be about doubled, while newly set to improve the ser-
transportation by sailing ships vice.
the trunk lines in order to
with engine will increase 34%
(d) Telegraph: Telgraph
conserve coals and increase
n amount. Among coastal service will be recovered to
transportation capácity.
cargoes, coal is preponderant- the level of 1930-34 by 1952.
4. Land and river conserva-
ly large in amount, occupying (c) Wireless: It will be in-
tion work. Plans are made
68% of the amount transport- creased both for international
for riparian and sand preven-
ed by cargo boats and 18% of
and internal service. (The lat-
tion engineering with a view
that by suiling ships with
ter is for the measure against
to eliminating danger from
engine in 1952.
-natural disaster.)
the area of 220,000 chobu
Monthiy Average Alletment of Cargo Vessels
(Unit: 1.000 groms tons)
which is calling for the urgent
Coastal
Neighhoring Distance
attention and for the improve.
Trade
Sea Trade Sea Trade
Total
ment of waste land and da-
1948
660
376
1.036
mage prevention forestry
1949
765
464
31
1.280
which also requires the im-
1950
1951
1952
796
835
865
645
585
750
102
106
74
1.455
1.582
1,720
mediate care.
5. Housing. The shortage
Note: Cargo ships only.
of houses up to the end of the
As a principle of allotment.
Construction for Rehabilitation
year 1947 numbered 3,700,000
priority is given to the coastal
In order'to attain the re-
lines. and neighboring sea
habilitation targets stated
ed in 15 years. And. a pro-
lines are considered next with
above in such felds as mining
gram is adopted to build 2,000,-
the carrying ratio of 80% for
and industry. food production.
000 houses in the planned
China, Sagharein and Korea
foreign trade transportation.
lines and 50% for others.
etc., various equipments and
public dwelling houses, for the
Only a portion which we can
facilities have to be rehabili-
workers and clerks engaged in
spare is alloted for distant sea
tated. and also in order to
key industries, farming set
lines.
raise labor productivity, resi-
tlers.
As a temporary measure,
dence and other facilities for
(Te Be Coneluded)
in order to lessen the burden
public safety, public health,
of freight charge in foreign
etc. have to be rehabilitated.:
currencies and increasing em-
It is almost impossible to
ployment of seamen, there will
complete all of these rehabi-
be a necessity of requesting
litation constructions within a

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
May 2, 1948
5-YEAR RECOVERY PLAN
Draft of Measures Compiled by Economic
Stabilization Board Released
(This instaiment concludes the
by virtue of modernization of
culture forestry and aquatic
Draft Economic Recoyery Plan
industries (especially of ex-
industry is comperatively'al
compiled and issued secently by
and that of mining d
the Economic Stabilization Board.
port industry), the raising of
Due to lack of space the entire
efficiency consequent upon the
facturing industry is comd
text has been condensed.—EDI-
increase of working rate and
erably conspicuous. This is
TOR,
by strenuous attentiveness
the natural outcome of giving
actuated by the will to work.
weight to the manufacturing
At present the unemploy-
industry, showing the direc-
Q1 One of the post-war
Employment
ment problem is hidden under
tion toward which our eco-
the shadows of inflation and
nomy should proceed.
'economic troubles in our coun-
not so serious superficially,
Adthough the nationed im-
try is striking disparity be-
tween production and Jabor.
but once these veils of infla-
come per capita is omly 
tion are taken off, it is certain
per cent in 1949 and 07 per
employment.
The mining and industrial
that this will become once
cent im 1948 of the basic per-
production hangs as low as
again the greatest cause of
iod, it recovers as muéh:as:97
40% of the standard years
trouble for our country. In
per cent fwe years after. It
while labor employment main-
this plan, the same percentage
the progress is made at this
tains the same or even higher
of unemployment with 1930-
rate, in 1933 it will certainly
percentage. Phat means, pro-
34 (2.4 per cent of the whole
reach 100 per cent. The gross
ductivity of the labor is gen-
population) is anticipated in
national products which is the
eraHy very low and not ex-
1952. The Government, des-
addtion of national income
ceeding 40% of the standard
pite its scanty financial re-
and the depreciation required
years and with all as many sources, intends to absorb a
for the production représents
as about 4,000,000 unemployed surplus population of two mil-
the total amount of the goods
are estimated including poten- lion chiefly through unem-
and services produced domes-
tial unemployed.
ployment insurance and public
tically during that year. These
The only way open in the
works
goods and services is applied,
realization of these twe seem-
National Income
in expenditure feld, to the
ingly contradictory aims could
The following table repre-
consumers expenditure of in-
not be sought except in the
sents the above various plans
dividuals, prívate capital for-
enhancement of production
all-inclusively in terms of the
mation (industrial invest-
activities. Supposing that the
real production national in-
ment), nancial expenditure
real income of the people in
come which is the concrete ex-
and not foreign investment
1952 is in the level of 120%
pression of production level
("plus" in case of exports ex-
of 1930-34, and if labor pro-
and livelihood level, showing
cess, and "minus" in case of
ductivity is raised to 90% of,
the annual tempo of recovery
imports excess) and their total
the standard years. the num-
and structure of economy. The
is the gross expenditure. Such
ber of unemployed is anti-
real national income is the an-
balance of supply and demand
eipated to be somewhere near
nual income of producers of
of goods and services includ-
2,000,000. The following table
goods and service computed
ing foreign aid has a signi-
gives the employment scheme
by the same price as the basic
ficance from the point of na-
classified
according to in-
period.
tional economy and is an index
dustry:
Nuniker of People Seeking Empleyment and
of judging the disinvestment
the Number of Employment.
of the accumulated capital.
(Unit: 1,000 persons)
However, since the plans for
1930-34
1948
1960
1962
the investment, and the plans
Number of People seek-
ing Employment
31.179
36.395
37.871
36,900
Number of Employment. 29,671
22.584
36.804
36.943
are not completely studied in
Agriculture
Fishery
14.190
575
16.216
661
16.613
707
16.863
742
this plan, the consumers ex-
Mining
304
503
318
519
penditurè of individuals which
Manufacturing Industry
4.041
4.279
5.565
6,306
has the material bese of com-
Engineering & Build-
putation according to the con-
ing Industry
1.894
1,538
1,887
2,076
sumption plansf 
Communications
1.171
1.633
1,096
1,758
Commerce
4.717
4.376
4,840
5,440
Public Service & Pro-
lowing table. Recovery
tession
1,828
2.325
2.329
2.333
Others
896
853
855
857
Without Occupation
35,160
43.595
48.747
43,804
dividuale is 112% against
Unemployed
1.508
3,811
2.867
1,905
recovery of national
(2) The most important
According to this table,
level to 121%.
problems are whether labor
the tempo of annual economic
consumers
productivity will show soon
reçovery is arqund 10 per cent
an upward tendency as antici-
and shows the comparatively
of per capita
pated or not and how to re-
regular recovery. It is notice-
Thus the reco
lieve the unemployed of huge
able that the tempo of devel-
tion is planne
number in the passing period.
opment of the so-called pri-
delayed.
The enhancement of labor pro-
mary industries, that is, agri-
ductivity is co-relative to the
rise of the standard of living.
In the present program, we
propose to see, yearly 5%-9%
increase of labor productivity,

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.91)
rmated (msumer Ezpoudsure. (19s0-34 price)
(Unit one millon yen
1030-34 1048 1900 1900 1961
1008
Individual Cosunels ex-
penditure
7.306 8.213 0.041 0,000
Indrx of ditto ..
100
70
87
(onsumer» expenditure per
capity
12€
02.8101.8108.6116.0
Index of dittu
100
8
72
The tecovery of national in-
come to 121% of basic period
irease in the production of
1i not ut once applhed to the
mining and manufacturing in-
raising of national standard of
dustry.
living. but the increase of in-
Ninefold increase in export.
vestment is given more weight
More than threefold in-
then the recovery of the in-
crease in import.
dividuals consumption life.
Twofold increase i labor
Conclusion
productivity.
The above are the principal
Twofold increase in the ac-
contents of the first draft of
tual national income.
tive-veur plan for our econo-
For this purpose, the above-
mic recovery. A perusal on
mentioned various precondi-
this report reveals that the
tions must be successfully
way of our economc recovery
solved. Of course, the actus
is fur and steep. In order
situation is brightening gra-
that the present plan be re-
dually, but it is too much to
alized. the increases of vuri-
say that the conditions neces-
ous items as mentioned below
sury for realizing the plan in
must be realized for 1952 as
its entity are being materializ-
compared with the present
ed. be it the control of infa-
conditions (actual result of
tion, or the economic recovery
1947).
of East Asia or the im-
Mure than threefold in-
provement of lubor effeiency.
Estimated Real Production Natiemal Income.
There is still left much to
(1 te m ot (1.e 1e30-34 piices. Unit one million yen)
be done by both the Govern-
Yeui
Amount of Income
ment and the people in order
Itein
1030.34 1147 1948 1949
1950
1961
1062
Agriculture Porestry &
to realize this economic re-
Aquatic lndustries ..
2.225 1 727 1.800
2.016
2.157
2.240
2.387
habilitation plan. What is the
100
1781188)
())
(0)
(101)
(106,
most important for us Japa-
Mining and Munufal-
tuting Industries
+ 224 2 221 2.928
3.321
4.066
4.001
5.172
nese people is to have a will
10
15219
(83)
(96)
(111)
(10)
to reconstruct our economy
Subtotal of Primary &
by our own efforts and to carry
Secondaty Industries
6449
3.938 4.018
3.537
€103
6.721
7.400
it out vigorously.
Transpor lation
100
062
161, 173)
1220 1 352
1482
(0)
1.615
(96)
(104)
1.786
(110)
1.878
Without our own self-willed
(100, 142, 1157
1170
(187)
(203)
(218)
efforts, no foreign aid can be
Commerce
2 414
1771 2095
2.304
2.000
2.918
3.100
expected to help us sucosed.
1100.
(107)
11171
1128)
Publk Service Libei
or rather we should not ex-
Piotesslon & Othe
pect it. However far the way of
Derivative Income
2347 1587 11
1.836
1.963
2.005
2.250
our self-willed recovery may
1100,,112
(78)
(04)
(0)
(8)
be, it is up to us to take the
Total of Thiidiy In-
33437 3138
5.712
6.247
6.700
7.287
frst stop toward its realiza-
(10))
(100)
(104)
(110)
(130)
Lion.
Aggregate of Nutiunal
The Ead
Income
13 20- 8.526 9.896
11.240
12.440
13.000
14,890
11001,181)
(03)
(101)
(111)
(121)
Anount of Income per
Capita
185 100 124
139
188
106
179
1100, 150, 1071
(78)
(88)
(07)
Note Figures in the brackets are the index to the bestc period.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.95)
ACTION
is assigned to
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
United States Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, June 14, 1948
DCIR
No. 352
DIVISIO
NORTHEASTSHAN AFFAIRS
CONFIDENTIAL
1948
(For Use of Department Only)
L
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SUBJECT: Comments Concerning Japanese Economic Rehabilitation
STATE
06
Plan.
S DRANC
8
H
5
C
EPN
Honofable
894.50/6-
The Secretary of State,
Hashington.
I have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch No. 326
of June 7, 1948 forwarding copies of the Japanese Economic Rehabil-
IES
itation Plan and to despatch No. 106 of February 17, 1948 forward-
1/
ing en earlier draft of this plan. There is enclosed a translation
TO:
of a signed article by Dr. TSURU Shigeto, former Deputy Secretary
General of the Economic Stabilization Board appearing in the Asahi
of May 18, l948, together with the Japanese text. Special interest
is attached by this Mission to Dr. Tsuru's discussion of government
controls and the attitude of the government toward the proposed
plan.
In further elaboration of the ideas in this article, Dr. Tsuru
has told an officer of this Mission that the plan as released has
a major difference in emphasis when compared with the earlier draft.
The question of government controls, he states, has been practically
omitted. He is alarmed at the tendency toward decontrol in Japan
which he believes has resulted from the attitude toward controls of
American business men, who have visited Japan.
Dr. Tsuru points out that, despite lack of a peace treaty,
the Japanese Government, as contrasted with that of Germany, is
behaving more and more like an independent government. Economically
however, he is convinced that Japan is still a wery sick country.
He declares that there is no objection to remove certain controls
such as those on luxury articles (controls have been removed on high-
priced fish) and, if construction continues to be controlled, on.
lumber as is being contemplated. However, he emphasizes in his
Asahi article that the only way to accumulate the capital neces
894.50
for increading
co
bODETIA

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo's No. 352
June 14, 1948.
-2-
for increasing production is to keep consumption at a minimu,
sacrificing an immediate increase in consumption for a greater
increase in the future. He feels thet the omission of proposals
concerning controls may have been politicel in nature and an indication
of the difference in attitude toward contrcls between the Katayama
Cabinet and the ashida Cabinet.
Dr. Tsuru states that controls were essential in successfully
combating inflation in Japen from 188l-le86 following the saigo
Rebellion and in the success of the first five-year plan of the
Soviets. He mentioned that controls are also an integral part of
the Lonnet Plan for the econonic recovery of France. Dr. Tsuru
believes that if there is toc reat a relaxation of controls, the
period during which Japan will be economically dependent upon the
United States will be prolonged indefinitely. He considers the
proper use of controls only one of many factors essential in organ-
izing a plan for the acrievement of rehabilitation. He is of the
opinion that there is & fundamental issue, which must be decided,
as to whether the guiding principle of Jepan's economic rehabilitation
shall be a "planned" or a "laissez-faire" economy.
In closing his article Dr. Tsuru emphasizes the importance of
a powerful spirit on the part of the entire nation to see that the
plan is made to work. Dr. Tsuru has said privately that he is very
pessimistic as to whether the present government will put its full
effort behind the plan as e unified national plan. He is of the
opinion that only with the most intensive effort on the part of
the government can the plan be realized, end is hopeful that the
Occupation will take a serious interest in the plan and stimulate
the Japenese Government to enthusiastic and sustained effort to make
it successful.
Mr. IClID. Hisato, Governor of the Bank of Japan,* has ex-
pressed to an officer of this Mission the view that far too little
attention is paid to the financial problems involved in achieving
the plan. This view has also been stressed by Dr. Tsuru and by
Kr. KANo Hisaakira, former Direetor of the Yokohama Specie Bank.
ir. Kano states that he takes every opportunity to advise political
leaders, including Dr. AsHIDA Hitoshi, the Prime Minister, Mr.
KITALURA the Minister of Finance, and Mr. YOSHIDA, President of the
Liberal Democratic Party that the Japanese administration of foreign
aid, upon which r. Kano claims the success of any plan will depend,
should be by a non-partisen group of business men.
Mr. Kano
* Member of the Eccnomic Rehabilitation Planning Committee to whom
the plan was submitted by the Economic Stabilization Board for
consideration.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo's No. 352
June 14, 1948.
-3-
Mr. Kano states that foreign aid must be intelligently and
efficiently utilized in order that Japan may become self-support-
ing by l953 and that use of foreign aid should be divorced from
internal political considerations and be subject only to consider-
ation of the over-all welfare of the Japanese nation. Mr. Kano
is an advocate of removing controls as quickly as feasible. He is
aware that controls are essential on certain basic items, but con-
siders present endeavors to control well over a half million articlos
undesirable and impractical.
Mr. ISliIKAWA Ichiro, Chairman of the Federation of Economic
Organizations* recently stated to an officer of the Mission that
he may differ in some respects with the goals outlined in the plan,
but in general agrees. He pointed out that Japan has the manpower
and the energy but that the success or failure of the plan depends
largely on factors now beyond the control of the Japanese people.
These main factors, he said, are the acquisition of essential raw
materials and the availability of necessary markets for manufactur-
ed goods. r. Ishikawa pointed to the economic and political un-
certainties of the Far East, where lies Japan's natural market,
as casting a dark shadow over any optimism that the goals might be
easily achieved.
This lission is of the opinion that the plan marks a hopeful
beginning. On the other hand, the success of implementing the plan
is dependent upon many factors, including some over which neither
the Japanese nor the Supreme Commander has complete control. However,
the Japanese nation has made progress in rehabilitation and with Ameri-
can aid should be able to surmount the difficulties of attaining the
goals outlined in the plan. The supreme importance of American aid
if the plan is to be successful cannot be ignored.
If the position adopted by the United States House of Representa-
tives against appropriating funds for rehabilitation of Japan should
be sustained by the Senate, and no other means are found to obtain
funds, it is believed that Japan will be a drain on American tarpayers
for an indefinite period. The consensus is that only by obtaining
funds from America for purchase of essential items necessary for re-
habilitation can there be any chance that Japan will become self-
supporting in five years. We have reported previously that even the
prospect of American aid has been a stimulant to recovery. Material-
ization of such aid would enable Japan to accelerate the momentum al-
ready achieved.
The problem of governmental controls is a serious one. In
Japen's present predicament, it appears definitely necessary to con-
t rol the production and distribution of many items. Japan with its
limited resources and its need for rehabilitation cannot afford the
luxury of
* Member of the Economic Rehabilitation Planning Committee to whom
the plan was submitted by the Economic Stabilization Board for
consideration.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
Tokyo's No. 352
June 14, 1948
luxury of decontrol at a rapid pace. Each step in the removal of
controls should be examined carefully, or recovery may be slowed
rather than speeded.
Mr. Kano's suggestion thet American aid be administered by a
non-partisan group is believed to be a meritorious one. Certainly
all possible precautions must be taken by the United States to see
that any aid is used efficiently for the purposes for which it is
provided.
The Department's attention is especially invited to the dis-
crepancy in population projections between those mentioned in the
plan and those used in the Strike report. The Japanese plan estim-
ates the population of Japan in 1952 at 82,920,000 whereas the Strike
report uses the figure of 85,800,000 for 1953. The Strike report
estimate was made by the Population Branch of the Research and
Programs Division of this Headquarters and is already considered
conservative rather than otherwise. The Economic Rehabilitation
Plan figures were made a year ago and indicate e less rapid growth
in population than similer projections made by the Japanese two years
ago, despite an upward sweep in the natural increase curve. Since
the Japanese are re-examining the population estimates and since the
plan is now under consideration by the Economic Rehabilitation Plan-
ning Committee, upward revision of the estimated population would
appear likely.
Respectfully yours,
herisence
W. J. Sebald
Translation of e signed
article by Dr. TSURU
Shigeto which appeared in
the Asahi Shimbun on may
18, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department
olidastade
850
ontrol-ap
WHLawrence: en
CONFIDENTIAL
2.0.1

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 352 dated
June 14, 1948 from the Acting Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, entitled:
"Comments Concerning Japanese Eoonomio
CONFIDENTIAL
Rehabilitation Plan".
(COPY)
(Translation of a signed comment by lr.
TSURU on the Five-Year Economic Rehabil-
itation Program appearing in THE SAHI
SHDHUN, Tokyo, of May 18, 1948.)
FOR ACCOLPLISF ING LONG-RANGE PROGRAN
Lacks Controlling Measures;
Independent Guiding Principle Desired
By TURU Shigeto
Let us take this opportunity to digest the words "economic
rehabilitation program (KEII FUKo KEIKKU)". In the first
place, let us consider the meening of "economic rehabilitation",
and then of "program".
By what is called "economic rehabilitation" is meant, I
understand, to enlarge the basic productive fields which have
been narrowed down, and at the same time to elevate the living
standard of the people. In order to increase consumption, in-
vestments are required as a prelininary step; and, the expansion
of the basic productive fields being an investment activity in
itself, this problem of economic rehabilitation should be consid-
ered to be similar to the enforcement of the process of accumula-
tion at a certain speed. If we look back upon the first Soviet
Five-Year Plan, we will find thet the index number of the mining
industry showed an annual average increase of 20.3%, and that it
took six years since 1928 for the index number to become threefold.
During this period, accunulation seems to heve been appropriated
to the expension of the basic productive fields with little increase
in consumption. Now, eccording to our new program, the production
in the way of the mining industry is expected to exhibit an annual
average increese of 24.6%; and in the wey of the agriculturel,
forestry, and fisheries industries, an annual average increase of
6.1%; while consumption is expected to be increased on an average
of 9% a year.
The above is, indeed, a selfish program. The present program,
unlike the oviet Five-Yeer Plan, is said to reve been mapped out
"with due expectation for foreign aid"; so I am sure thet a consid-
erable portion or investments, though the exact sum is not known,
must heve been expected to be covered by foreign aid when mapping
out the program. Nevertreless, since the capital facilities of
after-war Japenese economy, with which we should stert, are assum-
ing sericus proportions in their decrepitude, we should take it into
consideration in advance that the problem of economic rehabilitation
will necessitate something like a primitive method of accumulation.
Many people
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
No. 352, June 14, 1948.
CONFIDENTLL
-2-
Lany people know in what form primitive accumulation had
been done in the history of modern nations. Its common feature
was that state organs had forcibly taken such measures of various
kinds as to reduce ccnsumption to be assigned out of annual prod-
ucts to a minimum. The proulem of economic rehabilitation which
our country has to deal with cannot escape from going through the
same process. ven common sense teaches us that, were all product-
ion used up for consuiption, the foundation of rehabilitation could
not be establisled. Then, how is the Government going to solve
this protlem? Under the current conditions where the substance
of living is reduced to about 40; of the pre-war level, the pres-
sure to cause an increase in consumption is extremely strong; so
it naturally follows that in order to complete the foundation
work of rehabilitation, priority in the allocation of materials,
price control, and a rationin: system should be carried on. The
onnet Plan of France also described this question of control as an
important factor. Our present program, however, does not touch
upon this point. It is not clear whether they have not touched
upon tnis from their expectation that they will be able to depend
upon foreign aid for all the portion that corresponds to accumulation,
or from their political consideration that the control itself may
becone, in effect, reguletion which will affect consumption. The
control for regulating consumption is not to be opposed because of
its reguleting consumption. The priority of control should be
judged from whether or not regulation is done without partiality,
or whether or not state organs are so organized as to make the
portion which will be saved by regulation be used for the benefit
of the entire people.
The above discussion naturally leads us to the second question:
that is, 'Is the Economic Rehabilitation Program really a "program"?'
If the present tentative program only aims at clarifying some figure-
work conditions for fulfilling a certain objective, I admit that that
alone may be worthwhile; but I should say that, in order to make it
a "program" of state, something more than figure-work conditions is
required; in other words, a system which will unificatively operate
several basic spheres (such as, production, distribution, trade,
investments, etc.) just like our brains which control our systems
is required. The question of the continuation of economic control
which we have just referred to is nothing but a technical one.
The Government is reported to be forming a committee composed
of representatives of all lines so that they may submit the tentative
progrem to the committee for investigation, with a view to drawing
up the "executive" program out of this "tentative" program by obtain-
ing the endorsement of the people. We have no reason to set our-
selves against this policy, but I should like to say that it is quite
clear thet the above will not be sufficient to make economic rehabil-
itation a national program.
Setting aside
COLFIDENTIAL

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
No. 352, June 14, 1948.
CONFIDENTLAL
-3-
Setting aside the fact that our country cannot take care of
herself yet because the peace conference has not started, the
fundamental issue to be decided is whether the guiding principle of
economic rehabilitation should be that of a "program", or of a
"laissez-faire" policy.
MADA Masana (IN. an economic planner of the early Meij1 Era)
says in this "Opinion on Industrial Enterprises":
"Hhat is the most essential requirement for the
Government in establishing this plan? Is it capital?
No. Tnen, is it laws and regulations, or various
facilities? No; capital and laws are dead things; they
cannot be of use by themselves. What is the most essen-
tial requirement, then? What is required most of all
is the spirit to meke efficient use of capital and regu-
lations. without this spirit, tens of thousands of
capital and hundreds of regulations would be dead things.
How could they be made use of?"
In the way of expression there may be a difference which orig-
inates in the variety of times; but by "spirit" he presumably
meant the guiding principle for realizing economic development and
also the noble sentiment of those who had thoroughly understood the
principle. It is almost clear that the present economic rehabilitation
program is not to be put into practice with the guiding principle
of a "program". We, therefore, have to look forward to some other
principles. Whatever those principles may be, it is strongly hoped
that the program will be propelled by a powerful and independent
spirit.
Translated by KUROSAWA Kotaro.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.79)
このは のの のの のの 
長期計畫達成のために
都
留
重
人
Asahi
May 18, 1948
Page 1
統制的措置欠く
自主的指導原理を則待
かくじているとわれ～はお 回のはにして、回
そん物ない、彼してることをわれわれはくし
とそれをわかものとした人なの
時代のはおるとして「
4°J
のふ、あに思くその用まなさん
い、このなくんは万の
のはして回て、いわくと

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.93)
JUN151948
Ia reply refer to
My dear Mr. Buffett:
Referenee 1s made to your telephene eall re-
questing informatiem en the esonemie resevery in Japan.
894.50/6-1548
There 1s enelosed a copy ef my artiele published
in the Military Government Journal in January l94s en
Esenomio Recovery in Japan, whieh I believe eentains
the information you desire.
Sineerely yours,
PAN
Roswell H. hitman
Acting Chief
Division of Oeoupied Areas
Feenemie Affairs
CS/A
Enclesure:
Cepy of artiele on
Esenemie Recevery in Japan.
Homard Homen Buffost,
CRA
JUN 15 1948
House of Representatives.
em
-15
OE:RHWh1 tman :0mh 6-14-48
C-LO

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.95)
Form Da-802
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
TELEGRAPH BRANC
Orfige of
PE
INCONMING TELEGRAM
FAR CASTERN AFFAIRS
CHINESR
11943
9
Control 6342
Inanm: n' of Statr
JUN 1 S 1948
Action:
PE
Rec'd June 18, 1948
Info:
H
3:55 a.m.
F
SES
7
0
SAM
FROM:Shangha1
OCD
CIA
DOL
TO:
Secretary of State
894.50/6-1848
ITF
OFD
NO₃
1377, June 18
FC
TA XUNa PAC June 17 editorial cn U.S. polioy in Japan
RPS
summarized as follows:
FA
U.S. strongest power in world possessing atom bombs
enjoys fuli tlessings of national security therefore
neturally not afraid ancther Peari Harbor even if
Japanese standard living raised to pre-war level. How-
ever, China and all Far East nations are inseoure.
Discuasions of Japanese industrial level based en Pauley
report using 1930-34 levei as standard. during this
period Japan set up puppet Manchukuo, attacked Woosung-
Shanghai area, undermined China's foreign trade, made
endless stream pclitioal and economio demands and led
to veginning of Cnina's 8 yoar war of resistance. China
cannot forget suffering this period and so cannot agree
proposals.
Later proposals even more liberal. Japan, althcugh
defeated, still remains intact. Japanese goods again
beginning infiltrate Chinese market. Japanese imperial
STATE
hcusehold and parliamentary syatem stiil exist. Zaibatsu
1948
retained. War criminais not sentenced. Therefore China
believes U.S, has ignored security requirements of China
and other Far Eastern nations.
Editoriai proposes two means solving dispute. First,
war veraus apan not U.S. business alone and all allied
nations have right decide disposition of Japan through
"mutual corsultations". Even if Japan handled sclely by
imerioan or cupaticn forces latter should carry out wishes
JUL6 1948
majority aliied
M
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
2
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.
PLAIN

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.95)
PLAIN
-2-#1.377, June 18, from Shangha1
ma jority allied countries. Second, Peace end security
worid dces nct hii.ge on security or smal: number strong
cationa but cn security of arge number weak nations.
Security of China and Far East mcre relevant than security
U.S. in hand ing apan. Therefore editoriai demands
"in cimple and clear Language" that for perlod at least
5 years Japal: & industria) ievel and standard living must
nct te higher than thcse of China or even these of other
Far Enstern Allied naticns susceptible to aggressior
Late standard ca. be liberalized if Japan's syster of
govt changed a d recomes true democracy. Also Japan should
be required pay reparaticns over long pericd equal to
percentage tuta inerme and total capitai increase.
Editcrial conc udes by appesiinz American people to urge
J. S Jovt, i. ame cf justice and on basis ef common
sense. v vork for peace and se urity of world.
Ser t Dept 377. repeated Nanking 1125.
PILCIER
XP:FAE
PLAI

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.97)
TANDARD PORM NO. 4
DATE: Ju1y 12, 1948
TO
MGHu
FROM :
SUBJECT :
Attached.
An ESs study discloses that Japan's
population on January 1, 194e was 79.1
million; that it 1s expected to reach e4.2
million by January 1, i952, and 85.3 million
by January 1, 1953. Previous demographic
studies by the Economic Stabilization Board
are said to have underestimated the 1952
and 1953 population levele by over 2 million.
One of the ma jor causee of the previously
unanticipated epurt in population growth
is the improved health of the Japanese
ceople. USPOLAD warns, however, that no
attention 1s being given in Headquarters
or in Japanese Government circles to
population control, with many Japanese
indulging in wishful thinking about future
migration to relieve population pressures
at home.
NA:MGreen:fhh

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISEAMON OF
FOR JAPAN NOR HEAST A AFFAIRS
Tok June 19, 1948
No. 371
DEPAMENT OF STATE
RESTRICTED
(For Use of Department Only)
0:
Subject: Demogrephic Studies of Japan's Future Population.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
894.50/6=1948
Washington.
894.50
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the comments regarding estimates
of Japan's future population contained in this Mission's despatch
No. 352 of June 14, 1948 concerning the Japanese Rehabilitation Plan.
There is enclosed a copy of a memorandum entitled Criticism of Economic
tabilization Board Population Increase Assumptions prepared by the
A
opulation Branch of the Research and Statistics Division of the Economic
and Scientific Section of General Headquarters. As indicated in the
co?/s
reference despatch, the Economic Stabilization Board's estimates are
T9:
lower than those mentioned in the Strike Report and even the latter may
too conservative.
The figures used by the Economic Stabilization Board in drawing
up the Japanese Rehabilitation Plan show a population for October 1,
1948 of 79,990,000. The estimate prepared in this Headquarters
indicates that naturel increase at the present rate will result in
och
there being over a half million more individuals in Japan on that date.
By October 1, l952, the Population Branch estimates there will be two
million more Japanese than the Board has stated. Even these figures
may be too low, because a revision of projected population statistics
for 1949 and 1950 made on May 11, 1948 after the writing of the enclosed
memorandum revealed a need for an upward change. These latest projections
disclose a population of 80,900,000 for January 1, 1949 and 82,250,000
for January 1, 1950. The revisions have not yet been made for the years
beyond 1950.
One of the major causes of increased population is the improvement
of health among the Japanese. In this connection, as an example, an article
2/
in the Nippon Times for June 12, l948 (five copies enclosed) indicates
that the Japanese Welfare Ministry has decided on a drive to wipe out
tuberculosis which will include presentation to the National Diet of a
894,50
bill for compulsory inoqulations. It is claimed that already the incidence
of tuberculosis has been lowered because of inoculations; therefore it
appears
snr
JAN 12 1940
RESTRICTED

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's No. 371
June 19, 1948.
RESTRICTED
-2-
appears clear that the success of the inoculations will undoubtedly
contribute further to high population figures. The Public Health and
Welfare Section of this Headquarters believes the facts cited in the
article to be accurate.
While, from a humanitarian point of view, efforts to improve the
health of the Japanese are praiseworthy, we invite the attention of the
Department to the fact that little effort is being expended in endeavors
at population control. Apparently this Headquarters does not advocate
birth control as one of the best means of population control because of
the controversial aspects involved in such advocacy. It is less clear
why the Japanese themselves do not undertake measures to control
population, although the opposition of conservative Japanese opinion is
believed to play some part in this passive attitude. Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi,
the Prime Minister, has recently stated that he does not contemplate
any legislation regarding control. It is believed that many Japanese
are engaged in wishful thinking by advocating emigration to relieve
population pressure after the peace settlement.
The Department's attention has been invited to the discrepancy in
population statistics between those used to date by the Japanese in their
planning and those of this Headquarters, because accurate data on population
would appear to be a fundamental requisite in any realistic long-range
planning, as well as for making decisions for short-term food supplies,
calculations regarding an appropriate standard of living, and other matters
of vital concern to both the Japanese people and the Occupation. As has
been noted in the reference despatch, new demographic studies are being
undertaken by the Japanese Government and an upward revision of Japanese
population estimates may be anticipated.
Respectfully yours,
.Beace.
W. J. Sebald
Enclosures:
1. Criticism of Economic Stabilization
Board Population Increase Assumotions
2.
Clipping from Nippon Times entitled
"Drive is Decided to Wipe Out TB"
dated June 12, 1948.(5 copies)
n0/s opatio!
Original and ozalid to Department
wss
850.101
WHLawrence,Jr.:mhp
RESTRICTED
mi

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.95)
RESTRICTED
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No. 371 date
June 19, 1948 from the Office of the Unite
(For Department Use Only)
States Political Adviser for Japan, Tekye,
entitled "Demographic Studies f Japan's
Future Population".
(COPY)
GENERAL HEAD UARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED FOWERS
Population Branch
Research and Programs Division
Economic and Scientific Section
22 April 1948
CRITICISM OF ESE POFULATION INCREASE ASSUMPTIONS
The population forecasts of the Economic Stabilization Board (ESB)
contained in the report dated 2 April 1948 and entitled "Outline of
Japanese Economy Rehabilitation Plan (1st Draft)" are credited to the
Population Problem Institute of the Ministry of Public Welfare. These
estimates are as follows:
1 October 1948 ..... 79,990,000*
11
11
194980,895,000
1950
81,618,000
1I
1951
82,292,000
n
11
1952
82,932,000
Last September or October, I received from Mr. Tachi of the Population
Problem Institute a typewritten text entitled "Report Concerning the
Revision of the Estimate of the Future Population of Japan: -- Economic
Stabilization Board (EsB)". This report, which Mr. Tachi said was his own
work, contained the following Population estimates (identical, as far as
they go, with those above):
Population
Assumed Vital Rates, Year beginning 1 October
1/
1/
Date
(1,000)
Birth
Death
Nat. Inc.-
Absolute Increase-
2
16.595/
1 0ct. 1947 ...
78,236
16.014
1,755,000
11
1948
79,991
29.7
16.01
13.59
904,000
11
11
1949...
80,895
26.9
16.01
10.59
723,000
11
1950
81,618
24.0
16.01
7.99
1 Computed for this table — not iven in Tachi's report
2
Actual population on census date as published by ureau of Statistics of
the Prime Minister's Office:
78,627,000
3/ Actual rate for calendar year:
34.8
4
11
11
11
11
14.8
5
11
11
11
11
20.0
* - Actual population on 1 April 1948 was approxi mately 79,700,000
RESTRICTED
The obvious

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
Encl. No. l to
Tokyo's 371
June 19, 1948
2-
RESTRICTED
(For Department Uce Only)
The obvious conments to be mude on these estimates are the following:
1. The "starting" population for the series is 391,O0 below the
census population for that date.
2. By 1 February 194,the total population had already reached
79,340,225. Mr. Tachi's estimated 79,991,000 for 1 October 1948 is only
650,000 nigher than this. The natural increase for the next eight months
would h ve to averege only 8l,ooo por month if such a figure were not to
be exceeded by 1 October 1948. For the four months October 1947 through
January 1948, the actual average monthly natural increase was 152,070.
If the same monthly increase were to continue to 1 October 1948, the total
natural increase from 1 January 1948 would be 1,216,560, and the total
popul=tion on 1 October 194 would be 80,556,780. This figure is more than
half a million above Nr. Tachi's estimate for the same date.
3. Mr. Tachi assumes a rapid decline in the birth rate for every
October-to-October year after 1948-49. In this connection, it is a curious
fact tht in Mr. Tachi's report of last year the estimates now in question
were described as revised estimates and were accompanied by an earlier set
of estimates made by him for the EsB about August 1946. The birth rate
assumptions for these earlier estimates are given here with those for the
second estinates (now in question) for purposes of comparison:
Year beginning 1 October
lst stimate
2nd Estimate
(Made about
( Made about
Year
August 1946)
hugust 1947)
1947
32.6
32.6
1948
30.6
29.7
1949
28.6
26.9
1950
26.5
24.0
It is hard to understand why in his second set of estimates Mr. Tachi assumed
a more rapid rate of decline in the birth rate than he had assumed in his
first estimates, when the facts are that since August 1946 the birth rate has
been rising pretty steadily. Furthermore, the assumed 1947 birth rate is the
same in both sets of estimates. Although about a year had elapsed between the
two estimations, and the second set was done :fter some months of 1947 had
already elapsed. It appears also that the same death rate was assumed for
both sets of estimates, although in the interval the death rate declined
drastically.
It should be pointed out that for the last four months available
(October 1947 through January 1948) the birth rate has averaged about 38 per
thousand population. Yet Mr. Tachi's estimates would require that within the
remaining eight months of the October-to-October year it will fall so far that
the average for the year will be 32.6. The estimates also assume that the
next year the birth rate will average only 29.7, the year after that 26.9,
and the final 1949-1950 year reach a 1ow of 24.0. (The lowest annual birth
rates ever recorded in Japan were 23.4 in 1945, 26.1 in 1939, and 26.5 in
1946. For all other years the rate has exceeded 29.0.)
RESTRICTED
Perhaps

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.94)
Encl. No. 1 to
Tokyo's 371
June 19, 1948
-3-
RESTRICTED
(For Department Use Only)
Perhaps these estimates assume an offective birth control program.
But when is such a program to be launched? And how can it be expected
to have such drastic effects so soon? (Note: The babies who will be born
from now until January 1949 are already conceived:)
4. In order to make clear the dynamic and cumulative effect of birth
and death rate assumptions, let us take an opposite extreme and assume that
the 1947 annual birth :nd death rates continued to operate until January 1,
1953. Then the population would increase at the rate of 20 per thousand
each year, and by 1 January 1953 would reach a figure of about 87.5 million.
5. In the preliminary long-range forecasts of future population pre
pared by this Branch last fall, the natural increase rate assumed for 1948
Was only 15.8. If the death rate for 1948 is assumed the same as that for
1947, this natural increase rate assumes a birth rate of only 30.6. (By
coincidence, this is the same as Mr. Tachi's assumption for later in the
same year in his first set of estimates.) This is a very conservative
assumption, in view of the actual vital events of 1947. A gradual decline
in the natural increase rate was assumed in making the projections, and
in 1952 a rate of 13.4 was reached, implying a birth rate of 28.2. The ap-
plication of these projected natural increase rates to the population on
1 January 1948 gave a total population for January 1953 of about 85,291,000.
An equivalent figure for 1 October 1952 is about 85 million -- a number about
two million larger than the EiB estimate for that date. The probable under-
estimation of natural increase for 1948 in the R&S preliminary estimates is
about half a million, and perhaps the increase for subsequent years was also
underestimated. It is not probable that natural increase was over estimated
for any year to any significant extent. The R&S (GHQ, SCAP) preliminary
figures for the years covered in the ESB report are as follows:
1 January 1948
79,000,000 (actual figure: 79,119,000)
I"
1949
80,550,0001
11
1950
1"
11
1951
83,002,000
11
1952
84,166,000(1 October 1952: 85,000,000)
11
11
1953
85,291,000
M. tone
Statistician
1
Subsequently revis ed to 80,900,000)
revisions as of 11 May 48
2
11
11
"82,250,000)
RESTRICTED

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.99)
NIPPON TIMES:
June 12, 1948
WHL
DRIVE IS DECIDED
Last year the Welfare Min-
istry had persons betwedn 10
and 25 years inoculated with
TO WIPE OUT TB
BCG. This year it plans to
have. all persons between
eight and 25 years inoculated.
and has ready enbugh BCG
CompulsoryInoculations
for 9,000,000 persons.
Theinvestigation alsó
Projected in Bill to Be
brought to light a number of
Presented to Diet Soon
other facts.
There were much more wo-
merr dying of tuberculosis than
The Welfare Ministry will
men at the time of the Man-
shortly present to the Diet a
churian incident. The posi-
bill making it compulsory for
tion has since been reversed.
all people to receive preven-
In 1943 there were 24.4 men
tive inoculations against pul-
and 18.6 women dying of
monary tuberculosis.
tuberculosis for every 10,000
The measure is part.of the
population. Thé cause of the
Government's policy of wiping
heavier incidence of tuber-
out tuberculosis which is called
culosis among. men was ex-
the national disease because
plained by the fact that there
of the heavy toll of lives taken
were more men than before
by the disease.
working under the. arrange-
Inoculation will be with
ment by which light industries
BCG, whose appearance has
were replaced by heavy in-
opened a new era in the fight
dustries.
against tuberculosis. Thanks
A notable fact is that persons
to BCG, there has been, less
at most active ages, that is be-
and less incidence of tuber-
tween 30 and 40 years, are
culosis in Japan in the past
contracting tuberculosis at so
few years, reports Kyodo.
great a rate that they are be-
There were 23 persons dying ginning to show the heaviest
of tubertulosis for every 10,000 incidence of tuberculosis of
population in Japan in 1946. any age group. There is a đe-
This declined to 19 in 1947. crease in the number of deaths
Still tuberculosis tops the list from tuberculosis amons. per-
of diseases in the heaviness of sons between 20 and 24 years,
the toll taken by it.
an age group which has hither-
The result of a recent in-
to had the heaviest incidence
vestigation by the Welfare of the disease.
Ministry is such. as to prove The Welfare Ministry has
conclusively the immediate compiled figures for deaths
effect of inoculations with from tuberculosis in varlous
BCG.. The investigation re- prefectures in 1947. The list
vealed there was a marked is topped by Kyotg with 24.86
decrease in the number of fatal deaths per 10,000
persons between the ages of and. Shimane with 24.1s is a
inoculated with BCG- im- place with 2ns1.At the
mediately after the end of the tom comes
war. On the other hand there 8.80.
was a mounting tendency for
persons in other age groups
which were not inoculated to
become stricken with tuber-
culosis.

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
ACTION
is assigned to
12
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
DL.
0-1K
The Honorable George C. Marsall
22 PM 5
The Secretary of State
Dear General Marshall:
EAS
I an informed that at the lloth meetins of tho Far Eastern
Com: ission on 9 June 1948 ropresentatives of the governments of
e Philip: ines, France and Australia indicated that instructions
has been r ceived which woul pennit heir support for the "Policy
894.50/6-2148
Toarus Japanese Intustry -— Level of Economic Life in Japan"
contalned in FEC 2h2/2.
As you imow, neit her the State nor the Arny Department is now
in agrcement wit. the prov sions of this paper. Since industrial
levels in Japan are the basis or a r parations policy which will
$94.60
be included in he dec's on of the Mational Security Council on the
policy paper now before it, it seems important to me that the United
States representative on the Far Eastern Comrission should be
specifically instructed to oppose any atcempt to approve FEc 242/32
prior to inal .S. policy ueci sions in the National Security
Council.
20
In a letier from Mr. Fran Wisner, Deputy to the Assistant
Secretary of Stat: or Occupied Areas, to Gen ral McCoy, the latter
was advised  uelay ctio. on EC 2h2/32 and, if necessary, to
prevent a vote in the full Cominsion "pending r. Kennan's return
frot his conversation wit: leneral MacArthur and analysis of his
report". Since r. Kennan has returned and his report has been
analyzed and mase the basis of the National Security Council policy
paper, it vould suem appropriate to uxplain the ri tuation to General
Metoy so that he wo le understand the reasons for the instructions
I have suggested.
Sincerely yours,
FILED
Kenneth C. Royal
A
Secretary of the Army
C
F
1627

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.94)
2=/0
CONFIDENTIAL
Dear r. Secretary:
In reply to your letter of June 21 regarding the status of
the paper on "Poliay Towards Japanese Industry - Level of
Economic Life in Japan" (FEC 242/32), your informatien is eerrest
that the Philippines, France and Australia have now indieated
that they have received instruotions which would permit their sup-
894.50/6-2148
port of the paper. In addition to the United States, anly Chims
and the U.S.S.R. remain without instruetions. It is possible that
they may announee their positions at any time. For this reasom,
as well as for the others with whish you are fully asquaimted, it
is highly important that the U. S. detarmine its positien on this
matter as soon as possible.
VWith reference to your suggestien that General MeCey sheuld be
specifioally instrusted to oppese any attempt to appreve Fmc 242/32
prior to final U. S. policy decisions in the Natienal Sesurity
Council, I believe that sach additional instructions are unnesessary
since General MeCoy is fully informed on the status of the diesue-
sions in the Gevernment on reparations poliey end sinee the mandate
to delay action on FEC 242/32, eontained in Mr. Misner's letter to
whieh you refer, is still in effeot.
However, in erder that there may be no possible misunderstanding
I am having & copy of your letter of June 2l forwarded to General
MoCoy for his infermmtion.
Faithfully yours,
CS/A
S/S
894.50
The Honorable Kenneth C. Royall,
220
Secretary of the Aruy,
JUL 2 1948
Washington, D. C.
0:PPC1axton:br
6/24/48 -7/1/48
EP
0E
NA
FE
For clearances see attached blue and memo
from ...r. Allison.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: O - Mr. Claxton
DATE: June 29, 1948
suject: Attached Lettef to Becretary Royall
While I agree that the enclosed reply to Seeretary
Royall's letter of June 21 is striotly accurate, never-
theless on such an important point as this, where there
is a definite difference of opinion with the Department
of the Army, I feel that from a tactical point of view
FW
1t is 1mportant that we give the Army no cause for
feeling that we are not doing everything possible to
assure that the Us position in this matter is not
compromised by premature discussion. I would there-
894.
fore suggest, and this has the approval of Mr. Butterworth,
that a final sentence be added to the letter reading
somewhat as follows:
"However, in order that there may be no
possible misunderstanding I am having a copy of
your letter of June 21 forwarded to General
50
McCoy for his information."
I would then suggest that General NoCoy be provided
with coples both of Secretary Royall's letter and the
Department'e reply thereto.
6-2148
w10
CONFIDENTIAL
NA:JMAll1son/pm

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTIAL
Jume 25, 1948
My dear Mr. Drapest
Enclosed is a proposed poliey paper entitled "Self-Sappert
of th  Japanese Beonomy" which is based on a mere exhemstive
paper originally introduced inte Saxaoc by the state Bepartment
as saxac0 381. It is understeod that at that sime you m-
éested a reduotion in the length of the paper, bas said that is
seer ed generally acceptable from a substantive standpoint. The
State Department has now shortaned the paper, and vishes te
secure Army Department approval thereto.
Since the paper is intended as a suggestiom to soar and met
6
for submission to the Far Lastern Cormaimsion, it wemld net appeas
necessary to secure sañscc approval of the paper. It is sns-
九
gested that the paper be forwarded to sGar as as appreved state-
Army state:ent in the manner now suggested in the paper's resem-
5
mendations.
Action on this paper would be especially appropriate moy
thet Congressional action on the FY 1949 appropriation has made
possible the first expenditure of United States fasds fer
Japanese rehabilitation. Preparation of the lons-maage Japemese
recovery plan proposed in this paper would also implemeat the
relevant recommendation of Sestion IV, paregraph S. in the
"Polioy Reeommendations with Respoct to Japan" recently sabmistel
2
to tho National Security Council.
8f
Sincerely yours.
Frank G. Wisner
Deputy to the Assistant Searetary
for Ceoupied Arees
Enclosure:
Poliey paper.
The Honorable
William H. Draper.
Under Seeretary of the Army.
Department of the Army.
pue
O: AIKeyes: jcd
Cleared with:
6/23/48
QE
Mr. Fearey
1620

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
July 6, 1948
894,50/7-648
Dear General MoCoy:
I an enalosing for your information a copy of a letter
from Searetary Royall to Secretary Marshall regarding the
paper on "Policy Towards Japanese Industry - Level of Koonomds
Life in Japan" (FC 242/32) and a copy of the Under Secretary's
reply.
Yours sincerely,
Charles E. Saltmman
Enclosures
1. Copy Letter from
Secretary Royall.
2. Copy Reply thereto.
CS/V
FTER.
General Frank R. McCoy,
Date.
Far Eastern Commission,
2516 Hassachusetts Avenue, N.W.,
Initials.
Washington, D. C.
0:PPClaxton!br
Cst
June 30, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
6
f
162

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.94)
894.50/7-848
Dear Mr. Voorhees:
In view of the integration by the Congress of the
rehabilitstion pro Tam for Japen, orea and the lyukyus with
the legislative language and request for funds of the GraI0s
progre:, I believe it would be desirable if cur two epartments
could consider togethor as soon as possihle the allocation of
funds which should te ade between the two programe and among
the several areas.
The fact that the occupation of Koree may and within the
near future und the provision of the appropriating language that
aid may be continued to Lorea for the remminder of the fiseal
yrar, mke it seam essential that a separate system of account-
715
ing be set up for funds allocated to Kores.
I should be glad to disouss these mmtters with you or te
cesignate re,rssontatives to iscuss then with mombers of your
staff at any time you suggest.
Yours sineerely,
CS/ V
 Un
Charles E. Saltman
Cal.
Rssietant Secretary of the Army,
Department of the Army,
Nashington, D. C.
794.50
C:rfClakton:br
July 1, 1948
A
8 1948
1874

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.93)
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
is assigned to
POS
NORTHEAST ASIAN AF
(3ting. 1, 1448
United States Political Adviser
Kile-O.xttor Japan
Ale
UNCLASSIFIEDEPARI
Tokyo, July 8, 1948
DC/R
No. 421
JIC OCCUPIED AREAS
SUBJECT:
Tranamittal of Special Report: General Economic
Press of Japan
JUL 161948
The cting Political Adviser has the honor to forward two
copios of a special report entitled General Economic Press of
Japan, prepared by the Civil Informution and Economic Section of
this Headquarters.
The study is a description of the principal Japanese maga-
74.91
zines, newspapers and news services, which principally devote
their space to articles dealing with current economic problems
of a general nature.
Publications devoted primarily or exclusively to specialized
economic subjects are not included. The report covers ten periodi-
cals out of a total of forty classified by the Japan Publishers
PoS FE
Association as of general economic interest; three daily newspapers
emphasizine general economic questions; and three Japanese news
services specializing in the same field. The ten magazines selected
carry a querter of the articles published in the Japanese general
E
economic periodical press and account for a third of the total cir-
culation in thet field. The three daily newspapers selected re-
present seventy-five per cent of those in the field of general
economics and more than ninety per cent by circulation.
This report wes prepared as beinc material useful to Americans
DE/R
who plan to open trade relations with Japen and who desire sources
of basic economic data. Each of the publications and news services
apte
treated is examined in detail with reference to its history and
background, major personalities, policies and reputation, financps
C
070
and characteristics.
at.
JUL 15 PM 4 20
1π0
Nnclosure:
CO
CO
Two copies of Special Report
General Economic Press of Japan,
deted May 26, 1948.
Original and ozalid to Department
FILED
JDEdwards:emn
UNCLASSIFIED
qrn

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
THE POREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
CONFIDENTIAL
American Legation, Wellingtou.
July 2us14944.
NORTHEASCASION AFAIRS
No. 233
SEP - : 1948G.
Subject: New Zealand Concern ov@EPAupHtaS
DCR
American Policy on Economic Level for
Japan.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.50/7-2648
Sir:
I have the honor to enclose a memorandum reporting
New Zealand concern that the United States may be about
to adopt a policy which will permit an economic level
for Japan "far higher than anytning which has been con-
templated in the past". It appears that this concern
may have been provoked by a United Kingdom suggestion
FE
for a foint Commonwealth attitude opposing such a
CÓPIES
policy.
TO:
OFD
Respectfully yours,
EuR
Robert M. Scotten
DeIR
Enclosure:
Memorandum dated July 26, 1948.
File 800/711
Original & hectograph to Department
John S. Service/pls
15
948 3   08
ACIANC
WC/M
CSA
C
SE
CONFIDENTIAL
99
An
7
Dist.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure to despatch 233 dated July 26, 1948, from the Ameri-
can Legation, Wellington, on the subject of New Zealand Con-
cern over Reported New American Policy on Economic Level for
Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL
MEMORANDUM
July 26, 1948.
Subject: New Zealand Concern over Reported New American
Policy on Economic Level for Japan.
Mr. F. H. Corner of External Affairs called me on July
23rd. He referred to the numerous informal and personal dis-
cussions we have had during the past year in which I have main-
tained that New Zealand criticism of American policy regarding
the economic level to be permitted in Japan was unjustified and
that the United States merely sougnt a level which would per-
mit Japan to be reasonably self-supporting but not a threat
to the peace of the Far East. Mr. Corner said that the Min-
istry had just received an important, and he believed au-
thoritative paper, which said (and he told me he was quoting
the exact words) that the United States was contemplating
permitting an economic level "far higher than anything which
has been contemplated in the past".
Mr. Corner remarked that the paper came from a source
which required consideration and some sort of action by the
New Zealand Government; that it had had a very disturbing
effect on the Ministry which had abandoned some of its early
concern over the economic level contemplated for Japan - partly
in view of the obvious burden Japan was becoming to the Ameri-
can tax paer; and that he wondered if I could help him with
information or material which might counteract the unfavor-
able impression the paper was having.
I told Mr. Corner that I was without any specific new
information on the matter; that I understood that the so-
called "Strike" report was still under consideration in
Washington, and no new policy had been announced; and that
the population of Japan had increased some twenty percent
since 1934 which was the usual base used in consideration of
proposed economic levels for Japan. Mr. Corner again quoted
the same statement from the paper and expressed certainty
that the "far higher level" reported meant a much greater
increase than twenty percent.
I asked Corner if I would be correct in assuming that
the paper he referred to had been initiated by one of the mem-
bers of the British Commonwealth proposing a joint approach
to the United States to forestall an expected American policy
based on the Strike report. Corner said that he could not be
specific but inferred that I was correct by going on to say
that the New Zealand Government had been urgently asked to
give its opinion regarding the matter.
On the/
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
2
-2-
On the evening of July 25 I had an opportunity
to mention the subject very briefly to Mr. McIntosh,
Secretary of External Affairs. He merely said that
the United Kingdom was "very much stirred-up" about
the matter.
JSS
JSS/p1s
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
DC1
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE:
July 27, 1948
SUBJECT:
Economic Aspects of the Japanese Occupation.
Mr. Behr, Secretary of the Council,
PARTICIPANTS:
Messrs. W. R. Herrod, Pres., International Gen. Elec. Co.,/J. E. Fullum,
V-Pres., IT&T, R. F. Loree, Chairman of Bd. of Council, G. H. Michler,
Std. of N.J., Arthur B. Foye, Haskins & Sell (Dir. FE-Amer. Council,
Commerce & Ind.), members of Nat'l. For'n. Tr. Council, and Messrs.
Saltzman, Claxton, Butterworth, Parke, Lewis, Allison & Hilliard (State),
894.50/7-2
Mr. Pollard and Maj. Archer (Army).
COPIES TO:
O - Mr. Saltzman
IR - Mr. Vernon
Mr. Lewis
EP - Mr. Smith
OE - Mr. Whitman & Mr. Parke
CAD - Mr. Pollard
FE - Mr. Butterworth
NA - Mr. Allison
1-1403
At their request the above members of the National Foreign Trade Council
2
came in on July 26 to discuss with Mr. Saltzman various aspects of our economic policy
in Japan, particularly those bearing on the question of whether or not American in 4
dustrial concerns desire to resume possession of their pre-war interests in Japan or 0
make new investments there.
Mr. Herrod opened the discussion by noting that he had just returned from a
visit to Japan and the Far East and had that morning discussed his observations with
Mr. Draper who nd suggested that the group also sit down with Mr. Saltzman. He stated
that his company does not consider that the economic climate is yet propitious for
the resumption of participation in Japanese industry for the following reasons:
C
1. The law and regulations which give effect to our policy of decentraliza- S
tion are too vague with the result that the formulation of policy, as well as its ad-
ministration, is left to individuals with consequent uncertainty on the part of busines
men and corporations as to the conditions under which they will be expected to operate
in Japan. In reply to a question Mr. Herrod remarked that although this uncertainty
was perhaps the more important side of the picture, at the present time the law itself
should, in his opinion, be changed so as not to make geographical location the
principle criterion for the decentralization of a particular Japanese concern.
9
2. We should stop the "purge" of industrialists now. Some of the best mana- 
gerial brains among the Japanese had been removed from positions where their talents 
could be most effective and there was among them a wide-spread feeling that it would do
no good for them to appeal their cases since the Board of Appeals would not see fit to
reinstate any of those purged. Mr. Herrod sighted the cases of 8 or 9 purgees rom 
the Board of Directors of the company in which General Electric was interested, stating
that they were not thinking of making any appeal. In Mr. Herrod's opinion many In
dustrialists had been unjustly removed from their positions and should be reinstated. 
He made it quite clear that he was not advocating that the purge of military or
political figures should be stopped.
2195

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
3. Ths sincerity of the U.S. policy of allowing the Japanese to run their
own affairs is questionable. We are really asking the Japanese to take the responsi-
bility for initiating and carrying out policies which we by one moans or another
force them to adopt. This Mr. Herrod considers unfair and umgise.
4. Inflation is cutting down the value of U.S. interests in Japanese con-
cerns. Mr. Herrod feels that some plan of compensation should be worked out so that
the interests of U.S. firms would not suffer depreciation in this manner.
5. The labor situation is not satisfactory. Japanese management has not
learned how to deal with organized labor. Furthermore, the policy of maintaining
full employment in plants regardless of their production is wasteful and uneconomic.
Mr. Fullam of the IT&T indorsed Mr. Herrod's remarks generally but said that
his company, which owned a 30% interest in certain Japanese concerns, had applied for
the return of its property and was ready to get underway when this return had been
offectuated. He pointed out, however, one further difficulty facing U.S. firms who
wished to get back into the Japanese picture: Most such firms had written off their
Japanese interests over the past years and had thereby obtained a U.S. tax reduction.
If they were to resume their interests in Japan they would be liable for heavy tax
payments to the U.S. Government.
Mr. Loree also strongly indorsed the statements of Mr. Herrod and Mr. Fullam
and added that he felt it was very important that a statement be made at a very high
level (he mentioned the President) to the effect that it was the primary U.S. policy
to rebuild Japanese industry. The principal object of such a statement would be to
reassure the Japanese industrialists and to give them the confidence in the future
which they need in order to go ahead. Mr. Butterworth questioned whether another
such statement need be made, pointing out that each time one had been issued there
had been very adverse reactions from other Far Eastern countries such as China and the
Philippines. Mr. Butterworth felt that what was needed was aotions on our part, not
statements.
Another criticism voiced by both Mr. Herrod and Mr. Loree was that we had too
many military government personnel in Japan with a result that they were constantly
interfering with the actions of the Japanese and thereby inhibiting the growth of the
Japanese self-independence. Mr. Pollard pointed out the dilemma which faces our
military government people in attempting to reach a compromise between letting the
Japanese have as much freedom and responsibility as possible yet retaining sufficient
control to insure that the objectives of the occupation are carried out.
Mr. Saltsman thanked the visitors for their remarks and suggestions and
assured them that many of the problems which they had brought up had been and would
contimue to be the subject of careful consideration by the State Department.
1、
O:GWLewis:mds
—111

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.96)
STRD FORM NO. 64
TO
: A- r. isner
DATE:
February 3, 1948
FROM:A-S :r. udlin A
SUBJECT: Proposed Cable to SCA on the urge Frogram in Japan.
As you know,  hes for some time past been anxious to obtain further information
from Tokyo in oraer to make a more accurate appraisal of the purge program than is
possiole vith the cata now evailable here. Ir. Butterworth has mentioned his desire
to send such a cable on several occasions, te last being during the discussion in .
 ofrice with eneral ox last :ricay, January 30. I have come to the end of my
tether with the Army Lepart ent in this matter and I suggest that you mention it to
r. rey . en you talk with him next. here is no problem of substance, only of the
r.p.m. of the wheels of God. .he facts are es follows.
A-3 received from  & proposed draft cable rrom CA on the purge program on
December 2, 1947, at wich time we were in the middle of negotietions with the Army
Department ccncerning the Zuibatsu Frogram. Not wishing to confuse the two issues we
Withleld the draft from the Army Department for a few days. On December 9 Mr. Gray
proposed for our concurrence a cable re uesting SCAP's opinion as to the advisability
of an irmediate public announcement that the economic purge was complete. Over our
noffcurrence, this cable was sent 'personal by r. Traper who presumably re jected the
poiits made in your letter to r. Grey of December 12 pointing out the desirability
of obtaining the infor ation asked for in our craft, which we had sent him in the
meantime. e sew the problen not as a simple completion of the purge but as one calling
for study and perhans further constructive measures, including possible restoration
of certein purgees. SCA' renlied that such announcenent had already been made and
denied ir. Lrurer's inpliceticn that there had been some misunderstanding.
On 1 Januery 1948 you again wrote to r. Grey urging the dispatch of the original
State draft. ince that time Ir. Fearey of NA and I have met with CAD personnel, to
whom our cable hud been reforred by  r. Gray's office for a "recommendation". CAD
had no changes to surgest except thet the cable be made i to an AG letter. e agreed
to this and for the lust two wecks I have been able to discover little beyond the
fact that the letter is in AD when I call Colonel Dupuy of Ir. Draper's office and
that it is out of CAD whenever I call ir. Folle. 'd of thet Division. The latest news
is that it has left the cono ics Branch of CAl and may or may not still be in some
other part of tiat Livision, collecting desultory clearances.
I believe that the letter might eventually get out if you could induce r. Gray
to resume en interest in what is after eli the enclosure to a piece of correspondence
addressed by you to hin.
333
4270

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.93)
TO
: O - Mr. Claxton
DATE:
Don
August 3, 1948
FROM : OE - r. hi tman
sUBJECT: WaRX =5777 - apr r tionment of funds for rehab1litation
in Jaran, lorea and the yukyus
OE is in favor o: the imnediate allotment from the
total a1propriation of 1,30,00,030 of 75 mil11on for
renabilitation in the Far ast. It also aprees with the
deeision to speed u: the conmitment of funds in order to
exhil: rate the renabilitation process. In the case of
Korea, nowever, ccnsiderable care  ust be taken to make
ti.e exnend:ture ef funds part of ar. integrated plan which
takes acccunt of all of te ur ent korean requirements.
In particular, Korean requirenents for expansion in power,
fertilizer ana fisnery reeds to be re-examined in light
of the present situation in -orea and the over-all avail-
atill ty of funds.
OE is in eneral a reement with the apportionment
of th. 75 million from the GAkICA appropriation for fiscal
vear l940 set forth in the subject radio. It is felt,
However, that the snare allotted to the Ryukyus should
42
ie furthr exarIneu. Whereas Janan is apportioned rouchly
3o un: Horea ba c: the ancunes recuested From Jonoress
 ryr reabilitation purposes,
the siare allottea to the nyukyus is unly uoout loe of the
only i million for
te yu us as compared wi a budget request of about 16
milllon. It seems extremely woubtful if any worthwhile
renabilitation can be accomplished with this small amount
of funds. It is ver" ressiole that the Ryukyus problem
simply cannot se met irom the total funds on hand. If so,
the bepar trent sh uld cons: ler the consequences for our
rolicy objectives.
OE Is in complete arreenent with the positions of
subject radio wis ch request the theater to Furnish an over-
all trade pro ram to :e used as a future plan on appropria-
tion requirements for economic recovery.
The cable does not answer two important issues. First,
it oes not solve the question of general apportionment of
ω
money for orea from the GARIOA funds. As previously indi-
cated tc you, this needs to be tied down as quickly as
f
possible.
P
Secondly,
2212

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Secondly, it does not indicate where the rehabilita-
tion funds will come from. Since the original GARIOA
program was 1,250,000,000 1t 1s clear that $75 million
calls for a 25 miilion red:ction. Informal information
from t.e Department of the Army indicates that they have
in mini srending a tctal of lo0 million for Far East re-
construction. The 50 million reduction from the original
GARIOA program would cone in large part from the German
appropriation ( 40 million). It is understood the Army
hopes to make this up from the ECA. Army "spokesmen" also
state that the current harvest in  ermany will enable some
reduction in United States financial food shipments. It
is not clear whether CA is aware of this part of the Army
pro ram ani it shouli be further considered by the Depart-
ment and ECA before final action 1s taken.
OE:RiWhitman:emh

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.95)
Beft
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
DFD
No. 259
AMERICAN LEGATION
wellington, New Zealand, August 11, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject: Views of New Lealand Minister of Finance
on Economic Folicy for Japan.
Dc/R
DIVIS
The Honoraole
The Secretary of State,
washington, D.C.
Sir:
ANdx
I have the honor to enclose a newspaper report
(from the Southern Cross, wellington, July 27, 1948) of
894.50/8-
an address made on July 26 to the Political Science
Society of Victoria University College, wellington, by
Mr. wALTER NASH, Minister of Finance.
Mr. Nash's remarks covered a world-wide scope.
The following points may be of interest:
(1) Mr. Nash repeated his earlier praise
of the ERP as "without parallel in history"
and considered it vital to Britain's economic
recovery. He expressed the view, however, that
American aid could not be stopped without throw-
8
ing the U.S. economy out of gear and bringing
OFD
unemployment.
.E3
I.:
(2) Referring to the Philippines, Malaya
POS-euc
and the Netnerlands ast Indies, Mr. Nash
questioned the morality and ethics of any
FE
section of people which had a high standard of
ITP
living, improving its standard at the expense
of the resources of a country with a lower
ULA
standard.
CE
EUR
(3) Discussing tne problem of displaced
persons and refugees in Europe, Mr. Nash believed
DC/R
that New Zealand should do more toward the solution
A
of the problem by relaxing its bars on immigration.
(4) Discussing Japan, Mr. Nash was quoted
com sue
as saying: "I don't think we can solve our
problems until we get Japan back into production.
Japan, with an annual birthrate of 900,000, the
third highest in the world, ould not exist
permanently in its present space if peace was
to be kept."
Since
4
C)
CONFIDENTIAL
1948

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Wellington, New Zealand
Despatch No. 259
August 11, 1948
Since New Zealand has generally been critical of
American views regarding the level of economic recovery
to be permitted to Japan, the Legation has attempted to
clarify Mr. Nash's remarks on this subject. Mr. G. H.
Datson, a secretary of Mr. Nash (who acknowledged that
he had prepared the material for Mr. Nash's address)
informed the First Secretary of this Legation that
Mr. Nash spoke from notes instead of a prepared text;
that he was correctly, though incompletely reported;
and that Mr. Nash had in mind the expansion of textiles
and other consumer industries rather than any increase
in steel or other heavy industrial production. Regard-
ing Mr. Nash's second point, Mr. Datson states that
Mr. Nash was referring to the necessity of permitting
foreign trade outlets and reasonable Japanese immigration
after Japan had been democratized and divested of the
possibility of economic or political expansion.
The Japan desk officer of the Ministry of External
Affairs has informed the First Secretary that Mr. Nash's
address was not referred to the Ministry. He understood
that Mr. Nash was speaking only in very general terms
and referring to long-term developments rather than the
immediate future. He insisted that it would be incorrect
to attach any important significance to Mr. Nash's
statements as indicating any change in the official
views of the New Zealand Government regarding Japan.
Respectfully yours,
For the Minister:
John S. Service
First Secretary of Legation
Att Kum, I with ong
Enclosure:
l. Five copies of news clipping from
the Southern Cross, July 27, 1948.
File No. 711/800
John S.Service:des
Original and Hectograph to Department
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch No. 259, dated
August 1l, 1948, from the American Legation,
Wellington, New Zealand, on the subject:
Views of New Zealand Minister of Finance on
Economic Policy for Japan.
(From the Southern Cross, Wellington, July 27, 1948)
Mr. Nash Surveys
World Problems
"Immediately, I can't see war coming; but I have
seen from my own experience wars come out of inci-
dents of the moment, which have come from something
which has been built up," said the Minister of Finance,
Mr. Nash, speaking on problems of world peace at Vic-
toria University College last night.
He took his audience- members of
STANDARD OF LIVING
the Political Science Society-on a
"The standard of living of a coun-
conducted economic tour of the world.
explaining the problems being faced
try is determined exclusively by its
at present by a number of nations.
resources. This is not confned to
The engines of war had made an
physical resources," he said.
"awful mess" of Europe. physically
Mr. Nash said he did not think
and economically, sald Mr. Nash, and
that the contribution made to demo-
he did not foresee the damage being
cracy by the people of Britain from
repaired within a generation.
1939 to 1945 was fully realised by
Quoting figures to show the pro-
others. The American loan of fust
t
ductive state of countries at present.
under £1,000,000,000 had all been
11
he pointed out that a hungry people
spent. The Marshall Plan would not
which was not getting enough to eat
prevent the depletion of reserves.
was a dangerous one.
Britain's contribution to world
1.
"I don't think we can solve our
progress had been greater than that
v
problems till we get Japan back into
of any other country, and it would
r
production," he said. Japan with an
be disastrous to the world if her.
annual birthrate of 900,000, the third
prestige was lost by conflict with
highest in the world, could not exist
other entitles.
permanently in its present space if
Only a minor contribution to
peace was to be kept.
Britain was New Zealand's policy of
EASTERN PROBLEMS
selling her goods at a lower price
than could be obtained elsewhere.
Referring to the Philippines.
and buying imports at a higher
Malayeand the Netherlandd East
price than would have to be pald to
Indies, Mr. Nash said he questioned
other sources.
the morality and the ethigs of any
One problem which would have to
section of people which had a high
be solved was that of the 1,000,000
standard of living. improving its
refuges in Europe who had nowhere
standard at the expense of the re-
to go. New Zesland. Australia.
sources of a country with a lower
Canada and the United States were
living standard.
examples of countries which could
It was unchallengable, however.
do much toward the solution by
that Britain and Holland have done
admitting some of them as settlers.
much to increase the productive
"We have got to work out what we
capacity of these countries.
are going to do about it," he said.
Îndonesians were trying to get out
NOTE OF HOPE
of diffculties which they had been
under for a long time. By a great
Mr. Nash ended his address on a
change in procedure, countries such
note of hope. World organisations
as Pakistan and Burma had been
allowed to become self-governing. a
were showing more promise of suc-
progressive step.
cess, and there was more freedom.
"We will have to come to realise
with higher living standards today
that there is no inherently superior
than ever before. Though 10 per
people," remarked the speaker.
cent. less production had to satisfy
The European Recovery Pro-
10 per cent. more people than in
gramme was without parallel in his-
1939, he considered that distribution
tory, said Mr. Nash. Under it, 22,-
was better.
000,000,000 dollars would be virtually
Sometimes United Nations ap-
given away to help European coun-
peared hopelessly ineffective, but he
tries.
thought that the organisation was
"I do not think that Britain's
now showing more promise than the
economy could have recovered with-
League of Nations.
out the programme," he said. It was
"In spite of diffculties ahead and
the grestest recovery plan in his-
disintegration in Britain, Durope and
tory.
the East, it is a perlod which
He could not see the ald being
every person with anything in him
stopped suddenly witiout throwing
can look forward to with some plea-
U.S. economy out of gear. If there
sure as a frightful and dimeult job
was a sudden decision to stop send-
to do. If we do it. we will have
ing goods, and proddction slowed.
schieved something grest. If we
there would be a damer of unem-
don't, we will be in a bigger mess
ployment.
than ever before," concluded Mr.
Nash.

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.93)
t008
TUP SLUnEI
HMB
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
THE UNDER SECRETARY
S/P
August 10, 1948
.50/8+10
 Returned to
FE
Mr. Butterworth:
You may be interested in the
attached copy of comment by Mr. Fahey
of the National Security Resources
4
Board which he forwarded to
clearance at the Consultant level of
the NSC paper on Japan.
OFFICE OF
200
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ttachment:
AUG 1 0 1948
Copy of letter to
Admiral Souers
DIRECIUR
from Mr. Fahey,
DEPARTMENI OF STATE
July 29, 1948.
Luurs
ER
S/P:MBishop:mhw
7
1956
Aulhoriy: S
B 

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.98)
ww
OT
COPY........OF......OPES
COPY:S/P:mhw
July 29, 1948
Admiral Sidney W. Souers
Executive Secretary
National Security Council
Washington, D.C.
Dear Admiral Souers:
I am in general agreement with the revisions of
the staff on NSC 13 as attached to your memorandum of
23 July.
I do, however, have some comments on paragraph IV,
5, which are advanced as suggestions concerned with
implementation and thus entail no amendment to the
policy as drafted.
The Army, as the Administrative Agent of the U.S.
in Japan, is faced with a problem of considerable
magnitude in promoting Japanese economic recovery.
Omitting, for the present the reparations problem,
economic recovery in Japan depends to a considerable
degree on the reestablishing of Japanese trade in
Pacific far eastern areas. Recent returnees from
commercial and trade cities in the far east make it
clear that many in that part of the virld are most
reluctant to see Japan reestablish her erstwhile trading
position.
Without a market for Japanese goods in the far east,
the economic recovery of Japan is most difficult--if
not impossible. If we want a Japan ultimately aligned
with U.S. interests, we must either help them toward
recovery, including the reestablishment of their markets,
or we must be prepared to bear the cost as a continuing
drain against the U.S. and its resources.
One means of helping Japanese recovery and of
attempting to dispel aversion to the buying of Japanese
products might be developed by the Army, the Economic
Cooperation Administration, and the State Department,
in close concert, somewhat as follows:
a. Devise a series of quid pro quo arrangements
for the acquisition of ECA requirements for western
Europe from far eastern areas on the basis that these
far eastern areas will receive an equal or substantial
amount of Japanese goods;
b. Through an announcement by the President or
Secretary of State; by the State Department on a diplomatic
level, or through the Far Eastern Commission:

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP8EORET
-2-
Admiral Sidney W. Souers
July 29, 1948
(1) Stress the advantages to the whole Pacific
area of the reestablishment of international trade to
all concerned;
(2) Call attention to the fact that Japan is com-
pletely disarmed and cut off from materials in kinds
and in quantities that would again maker her a military
threat;
(3) Announce in conjunction with (1) and (2) above,
the ECA acquisitions suggested in paragraph a above.
Yours truly,
DANIEL COX FAHEY, JR.
Planning Officer

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
ACTION
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
No. 548
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokyo, August 21, 1948.
DIVISION NTO
NOK LA
1948
Subject: Transmittal of "Report on Japanese
nomic Conditions.
1止 STATE
38
JH
0
894.50/8-2148
5
THE HONORADLE
THE SECHETARY OF STATE,
WASHINGTON.
Sirro
S
1/
I have the honor to enclose five copies of a study by the
Economic Stabilization Board, a semi-independent agency of the
Japanese Government under the direct supervision of the Prime
Minister, dated May 23, 1948 entitled "Report on Japanese Eco-
2 &3/
nomic Conditions", together with editorials commenting thereon
(which appeared as translations in the Nippon Times) from the
Yomiuri Shimbun of May 24 and the Mainichi Shimbun of May 25.
Yomiuri, it will be noted, is highly critical of the study, re-
Fusing to dignify it with the title "White Paper", and considers
it superficial, complacent, and overly tolerant of the Government's
OTIO
failures. Mainichi, on the other hand, receives the report as a
"Second White Paper" in succession to that of July 1947, and, al-
COPIS
though fearful of a possible "austerity pattern" for the nation,
TO:
is generally pleased with the Board's efforts.
This Mission feels that the Yomiuri's criticisms are justi-
fied. The study is of some value as a summary of economic condi-
tions for the fiscal year 1947; as a wWhite Paper" outlining fu-
ture prospects, however, it has little to offer beyond the general
proposition that increased production is needed. There is more-
OLA
over a general air of complacency in the report that may be inter-
preted either as a lack of awareness of the problems involved or
as an attempt to minimize the ineffectiveness of the Government's
Fre
program. Satisfaction over coal production, for instance, is
hardly warranted, since planned production was attained for only
CSA
one month during the period under review, and since the goal it-
Com-ene
self was far below requirements. The analysis of inflation and
business distress likewise fails to go far enough, while the dis-
Taireuc
cussion of rationing clearly attempts to gloss over the failures
of the program. It is also to be noted that the report makes no
Treas-ene
mention of strikes and slowdowns as a factor hindering production;
likewise, though it is pointed out that the purchasing power of
FRO-que
labor in general has risen, the problem of the underpaid govern-
OC 8 194
ment worker is gingerly avoided. It would appear that in general
FILRD
Labor
the writers of the report were impelled by a desire not to offend
anyone
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 548
August 21, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
anyone in or out of the government.
Coal and Power
Preferential treatment of coal miners, according to the report,
led to production rises in the latter half of 1947, and the year's goal
was ultimately 97.7 per cent met, total production representing a 30
per cent rise over 1946. In spite of priorities for industrial uses,
however, industry received only one-third its normal pre-war tonnage.
Production of high-grade coal was limited.
Production of electric power was 85 per cent above the 1930-1934
level but interruptions due to drought, accidents, and typhoon damage
reduced its effectiveness. Though mining and manufacturing production
rose 21 per cent in 1947, industrial use of electric power rose only
4 per cent. An increase of only 5 per cent in power production is
expected in 1948, not enough to meet increasing demands.
Manufacturing
Industrial production in fiscal 1947 reached 35.8 per cent of the
1930-1934 level, an increase of 20 per cent over 1946, the report con-
tinues. No significant general rise has taken place since the autumm
of 1946, however. Steel production, falling off after an August peak
of 47,000 tons, totalled 569,727 tons, considerably short of the goal
of 675,000 tons. Pig iron production rose steadily through the year.
Cement production fell short of the year's goal, in large part
because of shortages of coal. The chemical fertilizer industry suf-
fered from shortages of sulphuric acid and electricity, while the
textile industries were hampered by a lack of raw materials and,
especially in the case of cotton, by erratic imports. The mchine
industry, hitherto dependent on stock piles, will decline, accord-
ing to the Board, unless production of raw materials increases.
In general, industrial production has not showm increases com-
mensurate with those in coal output because of delays in getting
the coal to factories, because of transportation bottle-necks, and
because of shortages of electric power and raw materials.
Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
Although supplies of fertilizer were deficient, a bumper rice
crop and a successful collection program brought some improvement in
the food situation. Reclamation fell short of plans; timber and
charcoal production, on the other hand, exceeded goals, though distri-
bution was poor. Marine production suffered from a shortage of boats
and from Allied restrictions on fisheries areas.
Transportation
Rail transport, the Board feels, constituted a major bottle-neck
to economic recovery. Only 85 per cent of the planned tonnage was
carried in l947, and considerable difficulty is expected in meeting
this year's goal, 16 per cent above that of 1947. Marine transport,
on the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 548
August 21, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-3-
on the other hand, reached the 1947 goal, and may be used to supplement
the railroads, which face an increasing demand in 1948. Faced with a
ahortage of ocean-going vessels and with potential shipping charges of
20 million yen in 1948, the Board emphasizes that Japan must build and
charter more vessels.
Foreign Trade
Imports in 1947 were only 25 per cent of the two billion dollars
believed necessary to support the Japanese at 1930-1934 standards,
while exports were only 10 per cent of that goal. Exports went in-
creasingly to East Asia, while imports continued to come predominantly
from the United States. Barter has been used to overcome the currency
problem thus created, and must be relied on increasingly in the future,
the Board feels. Trade conditions may also be helped by foreign cred-
its and by simplified trading procedures, especially by the establish-
ment of a single exchange rate.
Imports to combat "disease and unrest" accounted for 68 per cent
of the total. Commodities for industrial use, including petroloum
and pig iron, were proportionately more important than in 1946, while
imports for export use, especially cotton, constituted a smaller pro-
portion of the total.
Inflation and Cost of Living
In the first half of 1947, black-market prices and effective
prices (average prices of all purchases, both black-market and official)
rose rapidly, official prices only slightly; in the latter half of the
year, a reverse trend took place, indicating that proportionately less
was being bought on the black-market. Roughly speaking, official,
black-market, and effective prices of consumer goods have increased 84
times, 360 times, and 200 times respectively over 1937 levels; official
and black-market prices of capital goods have increased 70 times and
370 times respectively. There is, according to. the Board, little pros-
pect of increased production of consumer goods in 1948.
Public Finance
The general account for fiscal 1947 was balanced; the special ac-
count, however, showed a deficit of 66.5 billion yen, chiefly in the
railway and communications accounts and in the foodstuffs control ac-
count, in the latter case because of early rice deliveries. The Bank
of Japan took up a total of 58.5 billion yen in government bonds,
thus producing an increased volume of bank notes. Total note circula-
tion increased by 103 billion yen, due partly to rising demands for
industrial credit, and reached a total of 219 billion yen by the end
of 1947.
Considerable injustice resulted from excessive taxation of earned
incomes. In the future, the enclosed study notes, some way must be
found to tax "incomes that are difficult to catch.
Local finance was characterized by extreme inflexibility and by
dependence on the central government in emergencies.
Savings
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's No. 548
August 21, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
4-
Savings and Industrial Finance
Total savings were not sufficient to cover demands for industrial
credit in 1947; it will therefore be necessary, the Economic Stabilisa-
tion Board feels, to maintain close surveillance over loans in 1948 to
prevent undue expansion of credit and note circulation. Some tighten-
ing is likewise needed in the allocation of credit.
An indication of the difficulty of obtaining credit is seen in the
fact that the Reconstruction Finance Bank, chartered to advance loans
to concerns unable to borrow through normal channels, financed 32 per
cent of total credits to industrial enterprises.
Business Conditions
Enterprises are widely confronted wi th deficits arising from
material shortages, high wages, and poor distribution, and are further
handicapped by the difficulty of obtaining credit. Over-employment,
according to the Board, has been exaggerated as a cause of industrial
distress. Relief measures include the weeding out of inefficient en-
terprises and the removal of uncertainties caused by reparations and
deconcentration programs.
Wages and Living Costs
Real wages for the period January-March 1948 were 20 per cent
higher than for the corresponding period in 1947. Due chiefly to in-
creased consumption, however, deficit household spending remained the
rule.
Wages and expenditures in urban areas were at the time of the
report respectively 30 per cent and 40 per cent of pre-war levels,
taxes accounting for 10 per cent of the average laborer's expenditures.
Unless consumption increases, household finances should improve in
1948, according to the Board. Rationing of staple goods has been as
promised since August 1947; rationing of fresh foods and household
necessities has been less successful.
Labor
In spite of an increase of 6.6 million in the population and
1.4 million in the labor force since the surrender, unemployment is
low, according to the report, due to some over-employment in industry,
to absorption of population gains in agriculture, and to thriving
black-market activities. Union membership increased by a million
during the year. Regional wage disputes have been on the increase
since July 1947.
Reconstruction
The budget has been balanced, the report concludes, only at the
expense of important public vorks, particularly reforestation, flood
control, and highway repair. Housing construction has for the most
part
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 289 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's No. 548
August 21, 1948
UNCLASSIFIED
-5-
part favored high-priority workers.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald.
Enclosures:
1. Five copies of above mentioned
economic study.
2. Five copies of the Yomiuri editorial.
3. Five Copies of the Mainichi editorial.
Original and hectograph to Department.
850
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:mis
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.95)
FOR DEPARTHENTAL USB ON
UNITED STATES
REPARATIONS AND RESTITUTION DELEGATION
ACTION
TOKYO. JAPAN
is assigned to
27 August 1948
No. 11
D//
RESTRICTED
P'VISION OF
Subject:
Transmittal of two bii ARS
Japanese eoonomy
SEP - 3 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington
Sir:
I have the honor to transmit six (6) copies
94.50/8-2748
each of the two following reports:
1)
"Outline of Japanese Economy Rehabil-
1tation Plan (lst Drart)" prepared by
the Japanese Economic Stabilization
Board, dated May 17, 1948; and
2)
"Economic Conditions in Japan," dated
5 August 1948.
STATE
48 2   05
CI ANC
Respectrully yours,
WCO
Charlen L. Hodgi
FEB 23 1949
QEPAREN
FILED
Charles L. Hodge
Chief
Enclosures:
A/SS
1. "Outline of Japanese Economy Rehabilitation
Plan (lst Draft)" - 6 copies
2.
"Economic Conditions in Japan" - 6 copies
Copies to:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
Departmental Distribution:
OE, A-S, EP, FE
CLHodge:egp

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.94)
ÀCTION
THE FOREIGN SER
4
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
FE
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
memots 1AD 10//48
No. 564
Tokyo, August 28, 1948. o5H! a
RESTRICTED
Subject: Transmittal of Report Entitled "Economic Conditions
in Japan".
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose five
copies of a report dated 5 August 1948 compiled by the Economic
and Scientific Section of this Headquarters and entitled "Economdie
894.50/8-2848
Conditions in Japan". The report covers the month of June, 1948.
Production in June, the report states, totalled more than
fifty per cent of the 1930-1934 level for the second month in
succession, a reflection chiefly of increased coal output. Textile
production, however, laged behind and constituted a major depress-
ing element. Prices rose sharply, but, the report states, the rise
was a result of a shortage of staple foods on the official market
and of the substitution of sugar for cereals in ration, and is not
to be interpreted as a drastic change from the preceding period of
relative price stability. Wages continued to rise with rising
prices.
The report notes some improvement in government finance,
though deficit spending and increased currency will be necessary
for some tine to come. Finally, it is pointed out that bottlenecks
in foreign trade rather than inflation constitute the major obsta-
A/EJH
cle to Japan's economic recovery.
I with ong
Enclosure:
1948 SEP 8 AM 8 55
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Five copies of Report on
"Economic Conditions in Japan"
(em)
dated 5 August 1948.
RECEIVED
DC/L
850
18
3 PMI 15
ÉACII ANCH
(ar)
0/M
1948 SE
RESTRICTED

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
RESTRICTED
Enclosure to Despatch No.
564 dated August 28, 1948
from the Office of the
Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subject, Trans-
mittal of Report Entitled
"Economic Conditions in Japan".
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
IN
JAPAN
5 August 1948
RESEARCH AND PROGRAMS DIVISION
ECONOMIC AND SCIENTIFIC SECTION
RESTRICTED

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
ECOMOMIC CONDITIONS IN JAPAN
5 August 1948
SUMMARY
In June for the second successive month since the end of hostil-
ities the index of industrial production registered in excess of 50
per cent of the 1930-34 base level. The June index of 52.7 was almost
30 per cent above the l947 anmual average of 40.9 and reflects the
relatively favorable advances in industrial activity which have devel-
oped during the first half of 1948 primarily as a consequence of a
substantial improvement in the coal supply. The improved coal smupply
gave a direct stimulating effect to the main coal consuming industries.
The continuing low level of activity in the important textile
industries is the major depressing element in the overall level of pro-
duction. This is evident from the fact that in June the mining index
registored l0l.6 per cent of the base level, manufacturing other than
toxtiles 70.6 per cent, and the textile group only 21.9 per cent.
A ten month period from Auguet 1947 to May 1948 of relative stab-
ility in the price level during which the Tokyo index of effective
consumer prices advanced about 4 per cent per month was interrupted in
June by a sharp advance of 15 per cent over the May level. However.
the June rise resulted primarily from decreases in the proportion of
staple foode purchased in the official markets and from umusually heavy
substitution of sugar for cereals in the ration. For these reasons the
bohavior of the price level in June probably does not mark an end to
tho period of relative stability but only an interruption. On the other
hand, during the summer months the entire structure of official prices
is boing revised upward to conform with current cost conditions, and
this will doubtless bring about an accolerated rate of increase in
offective pricos in the coming months above that prevailing sinco last
summor.
Undor sevore prossures from deprcsscd consumption standards and
rising costs of living for wage and salary earnors, wage retes have
continucd to advanco, constituting the principal factor forcing tho
upward adjustment of official prico coilings.
Somo improvomonts have beon echieved in the govornment's financial
position notably in the increased collection of income texes. Tho gon-
eral account budget for the current fiscel year as now planned io in
balence. Howovor inovitablc requirements for funds to oporate ossontial
govornment ontorpriscs and to oxpand private business activity, plus tho
inability to tap savinge from tho public at large will continuo for some
timo to causo both an increaso in tho national dobt and in the curroncy
issuo.
RESTRICTEI

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Although isports, ospecially of industrial raw materials, have be
oxpanding, and industrial production has increased sharply during the
first half of 1948, cxports hevo not yot shown an increase above 1947
levols. Howover it can be anticipated thet in tho near futuro thoso
incroasos in imports and in production will bo roflectod in an oxpansion
of oxports. Among tho bottlenocks which continmo to harass Japanoso
trado aro the continuing markot difficulties encountered by toxtilo pro-
ducts, tho acutc world ahortego of foroign exchango, and the limited
supplics of goods and materials availablo in world markots for trado
with Japan. Thoso trado bottlenecks overahadow inflation and othor
intornal uncertainties, both reel and allogod, as tho groatost obstacle
to Japan's economic rccovory.
2
RESTRICTE.D

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION
Lovol of production
Tho industrial production indcr for Juno 1948 roachcd a now postwar high
of 52.7. The now lovel was 0.9 index points abovo tho previous high attained
in May. June was tho fifth consocutivo month of advancc aftor tho soasonal
Docombor to Jamuary dccline. Thc advancos from April through Juno woro
particularly cncouraging in that they wero medo in spito of tho poorost coal
production recordo sinco Novembor of 1947. Tho indox mumbors for Juno and
thoso for the provious fivo monthe follow.
MONTHLY 1948 INDICES OF PRODUCTION 193O-1934 = 100
June
May
April March
February
Jamuary
Industrial Production
52.7
51.8
49.8
49.3
45.5
42.5
Mining
101.6
97.0
94.6
105.3
100.3
102.8
Coal Mining
107.3
101.4
99.1
110.5
106.0
109.9
Other Mining
82.7
82.4
79.8
88.5
81.4
79.8
Manufacturing
45.2
44.8
42.9
40.7
37.1
33.2
Rew Silk
15.8
17.9
17.5
17.2
15.1
10.7
Cotton Yarn and Cloth
26.3
26.9
27.5
25.3
23.6
20.7
Othor Toxtiles
28.3
29.5
28.5
26.4
25.8
19.8
Machinory
64.4
59.3
57.5
56.4
52.1
49.5
Motals
56.5
58.5
55.2
50.6
44.2
37.7
Chomicals
73.8
74.5
69.7
60.3
51.7
46.5
Food, Beveregos and
Tobacco
53.7
42.5
38.6
44.0
37.8
38.4
Building Matcrials
119.9
124.1
113.9
106.6
103.3
102.3
Othors
64.0
60.6
60.9
58.3
8.4
41.2
In rocont months tho stcady devolopmont in the manufacturing groups has
contrastod with a doclino in mining output. In an oconomy short of raw
matcrials, particularly of coel, this declinc in mining output ia of a
critical naturo.
Compared ith lovelo obtaining ono ycar ago, however, mining shows fair
progross; textiles show little or no improvomont; whils the progress in
mamufacturing other than textiles is substantial.
3
RESTRICTED

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
INDICES OF PRODUCTION1930-1934 = 100
Juno 1948
Juno 1947
52.7
42.3
Industrial Production
Mining
101.6
81.4
Coal Mining
107.3
81.9
Other Mining
82.7
79.8
45.2
36.3
Manufacturing
15.8
15.5
Raw Silk
Cotton Yarn and Cloth
26.3
27.1
28.3
30.4
Other Toxtiles
Machinery
64.4
42.7
56.5
38.4
Motals
73.8
47.2
Chemicals
Food, Bevorages end Tobacco
53.7
41.4
119.9
107.5
Building Matcrials
64.0
47.2
Othors
While. in general, the June lovels mey be regarded as satisfactory.
in that ovorall lovels continued to improve, the rocent doclinos in coal
and othor mining must bc regarded as sorious since the mamufecturing lovels
in other industrios probably cennot be maintrinod if tho mining situation
does not improve. In fact. the April-Juno lovcls in metals. machinery, and
chomicals resulted in part from the relatively sotisfactory Decomber
through March minin; record. Tho ether significent factor has bocn tho
scasonal improvoment in the oloctric power supply.
It is important to note that tho three toxtile groups, which weighed
vory henvily in tho 1930-1934 base period. now stand wel1 below tho levels
of activity for othor sogments of the indox. In fact, the Juno level for
mining was 101.6, for manufacturing other than toxtiles, 70.6, and for textile
21.9. In Mey tho lovols wero 95.7. 67.4. and 23.3 respectivoly for these
consolidated groups. It io clear, then, that tho marked depression of the
indox is due, primarily, to the continued depression of the very important
textile sogments thereof.
Iron and Steel
The index of pig iron production for June was 58.5 while that for steol
was 51.0. In May tho lovels were 57.0 and 56.3 respectivoly. April level
wero 53.3 and 53.7 and March 1evols were 43.0 and 49.6. For al1 practical
purposes the April-May-Junc levels may be considored togethor and represent
tho highest postwar levels yet obtained. The improvement in pig iron pro-
duction has boen duo in part to the opening of the blast furneces at
Kawasaki and Kamaishi. In steel, improvoments have been medo in both open-
hearth and elcctric furnace production.
4
RESTRICTED

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
With respect to pig iron, tho April-May-June lcvele of this yoar were
almost doublo the April-Hay-June Levels of a year ago. The improvoment
ovor a year ego has been ontiroly tho rosult of increases in production
from other than electric furnacos. Electric furnacc production for pril.
May and June this year has beon about 20 percent below April, May and June
of last year.
For open-hearth steel,the June 19:8 record was oven better when com-
parod with June of 1947. Open-hearth steel production for June 1948 was
82,610 motric tons as compared with 37,913 metric tons in June of 1947. For
eloctric furnaces June 1948 production was 50,875 metric tons compared with
48,148 motric tons in 1947.
While coal and coke consumption figuros for the month of June are not
yet available, the May data when compared with May of a yoar ago showe a
marked improvement in blast furnace efficiency. In Mey of 1947 roughly 4.1
tons of coal and 1.9 tons of coke were required for oach ton of pig, while
in May of 1948 only 3.0 tons of coal and 1.5 tons of coke were roquired.
By prowar stendards these rates are still inefficient, but the improvemont
has been greet indood.
Part of the recent improvement in nig iron production has been due to
the roopening of Nihon Kokan's Kawasaki blast furnaces which produced 7.713
metric tons in April end 10.74l motric tons in May. The Kawasaki furmace
is the first important furnace not owned by the Japan Iron and Steel Company
to operate in the postwar poriod, and its oporation depends in part upon
imported coal. In May tho Kemaiah1 works of the latter company resumed
oporation for the first timo in the postwar poriod and produced 2,667 metrio
tons of pig iron, utilizing both Hokkaido and imported coal. The following
tablo shows tho sourco of pig iron production from January through June in
motric tons.
PIG IRON PRODUCTION
Motric Tons
Month of
Japan Iron and Stoel Co. Nihon Kokan Charcoal EMectric
1948
Total Yawata Wenishi Kamaishi
Kawasaki
Furnaccs Furnaces
Jan
36,996 28,821
4,519
3,656
Feb
36,878 28,838
4,237
3,803
Mar
44,795 33.919
5,277
409
5,190
Apr
56,584 34.659
5.355
7,713
306
8.551
May
59.478 27.365
5,391
2.667
10,741
424
12,990
Nihon
Seiko
Muroren
Jun
62,902 26,808
8.945
6,551
9.031 273 324
10,970
5
RESTRICTED

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
In the table above it is intercst ing to note the markod docline in y
and June production of pi- iron at Yawata. This docline resultod from the
fact that anticipated ore imports from Chine did not arrive. It ahowld be
noted that part of the Yawata production end all of that at Nihon Soiko at
Muroran is remelted pig.
Machinery
The June index for the machinery group stood at the postwar peak of
64.4 es compared with 59.3 for Mey and with 42.7 in June of 1947. Production
of industrial rolling stock, amall cers, eloctric cars, three-whecled cars.
motorcyclcs and scooters, sewing machines, and freight cars wero at postwar
poaks, while truck chassis and several other items were not much bolow their
postwar peeks. The sub-group of the index, machinery not elsewhere clas-
sificd, which includos the production of machine tools, mining equipment.
and spinning and weaving equipment, was steady with an index of 45.0 for the
period March through June.
Prospects for further increases in the immodiate future are good due to
increeses in iron and steel production noted above.
Textiles
Previous reference has been made to the fact that the overall textile
index for June was 21.9 as compared with an index of 70.6 for manufacturing
other than textiles. The toxtile industries have been plagued by a number
of problems including shorteges of raw natcrial:, inedequate maintenence
during the war end problems of merkets and credits.
While tho May 1948 overall textile indey of 23.3 was a postwar peak,
only one (cotton cloth) of the seven toxtiles within the index was at its
respective peak during that month. The raw silk peak was reached in March
of 1947, cotton yarn in June of 1947, wool yarn in May of 1947, spun s1lk
yarn in June of 1946, woolen woven goods in Mey of 1946 and rayon woven good
in April of 1947. The "spotty" nature of tho textiles production advance is
evident in the above dates.
The initial basic textile problem in the postwar period has been the
shortegos of various raw materials. The low lovel of wool is ovident in the
following raw wool stock figures which are givon in millions of pounds as
of solectod dates: 28 February 1946, 51.1; 30 June 1946, 43.0; 31 Docember
1946, 17.7; 30 June 1947, 9.1; 31 Docembcr 1947, 3.5; 31 March 19÷8, 2.0.
Although about 2.0 million pounds of raw wool came into Jepan in Mey, de-
liveries to the mills wcre not sufficiont to raise production vory much.
The Japanese woolen industry continues to be on a hand-to-mauth, month-to-
month basis.
Although tho cotton stock situntion has not detorioratod to tho extent
of that for wool, it bocame nocossary to plan May-June production roughly at
tho April levels so as to "stretch" the foreseeable supply of cotton. While
many of the probloms of financing immediate cotton imports havo now been
cased, the full solution still rests upon the ability of Japan to sell its
finishod textile products ebroad.
6
RESTRICTED

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Building Materiale
As related to base poriods, the building matorials production index of
119.9 for June must be regerded as very setisfactory. The bettor than bese
period production is due primarily to the continuing high level of lumber pro-
duction which reached a new postwar high of l48.5 in Ney. This more than
offset the decline in cement production for the month. Cement production in
April had reached its postwar high and the fall in May, whilo sharp, still
left coment production at a fair level of 46.0. In June the index moved up-
ward again to 53.8. Sheet glass production for May rocovored to 62.2 after
four previous months of doclines, but fell back again to 55.6 in June.
Nail production (an item not includod in the indox) was again disap-
pointing in June, being only 2,203 tons as compared with 3,165 tons for May --
1,656 for tho avorage month-of 1947 and comparod with 11,476 tons por month
in 1937.
Coal
Coal production in June, as in Maroh, April and May, was disappointing.
Traditionally Docembor and March aro the poak months of Japaneso coal pro-
duction, with March about * per cent higher than December. This yoar. March
was 3 por cent below Docembor... A study of seasonal coal production patterns
basod upon monthly production from April 1941 through February 1948, excluding
tho very abnormal data period from July 1945 throuh April 1946, reveals a
very interestin? seasonal pattern in Japanese coal production. Tho following
table presents the results of that study in terms of index numbors and in
terms of tho percentage of tho anmual production represented by each month's
production.
SEASONAL CHARACTERISTICS OF JAPANESE COAL PRODUCTION
Month
Index for the Month
por cent of Yoar's Production
Apr
97.7
8.14
Mey
100.0
8.33
Jun
93.0
7.75
Jul
93.5
7.79
Aug
90.4
7.53
Sop
93.0
7.75
Oct
96.1
8.01
Nov
100.÷
8.37
Doc
111.5
9.29
Jan
105.8
8.82
Fob
102.6
8.55
Mar
116.0
9.67
Year
100.0
100.0
7
RESTRICTED

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
Utilising the index mumbers above and the December l947 production of
2,959 thousand netric tons as a base, 1948 nonthly production should have
resulted as follows as contrasted with actual production.
Month
Estimated
Aotual
Jan
2,808
2,857
Feb
2.723
2,754
Mar
3,080
2.869
Apr
2.592
2.575
May
2.654
2,629
Jun
2,752
2.789
Jul
2,767
2,712
It is evident from these data that coel production is currently fol-
lowing seasonal pattern lines, rather than either expanding according to the
E.S.B. schedule or developing along lines which will insure the objective of
36 million metric tons for the year. When consideration is given to seasonal
pattorns, a 2,959 thousand metric ton production for December would produce
en annual production of 31.9 million metric tons. Thus far, in the 1948-
1949 coal year, considering seasonal patterns, coal production has been at
the rate of 32.0 million tons per year. The following table shows the E.8.B.
schedule, the measonal normal based on an annual production of 36.0 million
tons and the 1948 April, May and June actual production. It is ovidont that
by all standards -- the E.S.B. schedule, the seasonal normal. and the pro-
jection based upon last December's production - coal production for April
and for May have both been low. June alone may be considerod as matisfactory
at 2,789 as compared with a normal of 2,790 basod on 36 million tons per
yoar.
COAL PRODUCTION
Thousand Metric Tons
Computed
1948-1949
E.S.B.
Seven Year
Fiscal Year
Shortago to Date
Month
Schedule
Averege Normal
Actual
Based upon Normal
Apr
2,827
2.930
2,573
355
May
2.897
3.000
2,629
726
Jun
2,887
2.790
2.789
727
Jul
2.784
2.804
2,712
819
Aug
2,685
2.711
Sep
2,784
2,790
Oct
3.069
2,884
Nov
3.020
3.013
Doc
3,213
3.344
Jan
3.153
3.175
Feb
3.115
3.078
Mar
3.576
3.481
Year
36,000
36,000
8
RESTRICTED

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Huch has been written, herotofore, about the coal production problem of
Japan centering in the 44 large mines, mines which at some time in the past
producod at a rate of over 300,00 tons per yoar. Prewar theso mines pro-
ducod 76 por cent of Japnn's coal, but in Mey of 1948 (the last month for
which individual mine date arc available) thcy produced only 55.9 por cont
of Japan's coal. Trom the first quarter to tho last quartor of the coal pro-
duction year 1947-1948, cvercge monthly production in tho 44 largo mines
increased 28 per cent, while in all othor mines the incrcaso was 42 per cent.
The nocd for concontratin; efforts to expand production on the large
nincs can be demonstrated best, perhaps, by contrasting current with past
or potontiel production. If the 44 large mines were to produco at their
avorego 1939-1944 rate,the potentiel coal production increaso would be
1.540,000 tons per month over the current rate. If the 4 mines could but
average 75 per cont of their 1939-1944 rete, production would be incroased
by 640,000 tons monthly over the current rate. If only the wartimo big six
mines (Miike, Yubari, Ta,awa, Mitsubiahi-Bibai, Sunagawa, and Onoura) could
be brou ht back up to their 1939-1944 average, the monthly increase over the
current production would be 545,000 tons. In contrast. if all mines in Japen
excopt the 4 largo oncs were orought up to their 1939-194: levol, and if an
oqual allowance were assuned for new mines and for mines reopened, the
potontial coal production increase wou'd be only 310,000 tons over the cur-
rent rate.
Qther Mining.
Although tho June datn cre not yet evailable for other mining, the
April nnd May records wore disappointine when compared with March. As is
truo of coal, mining of other ores and minerals follows a seasonel pattern
of declino from March peaks into the summer months. The declinos this year.
however, wore very sherp for some minerals. Lead, for cxample, fell from
61 motric tons in Merch to 506 metric tons for April, the April figure
boin: lowor than any month sinco August of 1947. For zinc, the April pro-
duction or 2,524 metric tons was only slightly botter than production in
April of 1947 when 2,510 mctric tons wore produced. Cop er production has
not boen satisfectory at any tine in tho postwar period, perticularly when
consideration is given to the fact that prcwar Japen was the world's fifth
1irgest producer of copper. In fact, it ahould bo noted thet Jepan was pro-
ducing coppor at better than present rates even before 1900.
9
RESTRICTED

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
FOREIGN TRADE
General Reviex
The estimated value of imports for the first five months of 1948
was $282.6 million and of exports was $62.9 million. If the rates for
the first five months of the year were contisued throughout the yoar,
imports would run to $e78 cillion and exports tc $151 nillion. As
related to 1947, inports were up while exports declined as is shown
herewith.
JAPANESE MERCHANDISE TRADE
Millions of Dollars
1930-1934
Iten
1948 Rate 1/
1947
1948
Average 2/
Total Merchandiso Trade
$ 829
$ 70℃
$ 408
$ 3,885
Imports
678
526
305
1,950
Exports
151
174
103
1,935
Balance
-527
-352
- 202
15
Ratio of Exports to Irports
22.3
33.1
33.8
99.2
1/ At rates of first five months
2/ At present prices
In terms of comparable price levels the total trade of Japan for the
first fivo months of 1948 has been roughly 21 per cent of the base period
1930-1934 levels. Inports, however, have been roughiy 35 per cent while
exports have been but 8 per cent. Japan's export trade for the first five
nonths of 1948 has not advanced as anticipated and the ratio of exports
to inports has fallen to 22 as conpared with 33for 1947, with 84 for 1946
and with 99 in the 1930-1934 base period.
It is anticipated, however, that export volune for the renainder of
1948 wil! increase. There arc pending and completed export contracts
for textiles totaling over $65 nillion resulting in part fron nodifi-
cations in the Conmodity Credit Corporation cotton agreements and in part
fron the pol:cy chango raking textiles available for lolper cent sterling.
Further, there are pending and compieted contracts for steel products
estimaied at $15 nilllon for delivery this year. Further also. sub-
stantial incroase in imports of industrial raw materials should rake
moro goods available for export.. Finally, the current discussions with
representatives of the Sterling Area togather with pending discussions
with trado cissions fron tha Netherlands East Indies. Sien and Pakistan
should result in incrensel trade. Currently it is estimted that trade
with the Starling Area will increage threefold as the result of the
reciprocal trade arrangenent.
10
RESTRICTED

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
In the first five nonths of 1948 Japanese exports equalled only 48
per cont of the value of inported raw materials and loss than 23 per cent
of total imports. Thus, for this yoar exports have been insufficient to
pay for industrial raw material imports to may nothing of paying for the
foodstuffs required by Japan.
In 1947, 92 per cent of all inports were fron the United States, with
6 per cent fron Asia and the renaining 2 per cent fron Europe. Africa and
Latin Anerica. Inports fron the United States for the first five nonths
of 1948 have been 70 per cent of all imports. In the sane period 13 per
cent of the inports were fron Asia and the reraining 17 per cent fron
Europe, Africa and Latin Anerica. The nost inportant shift in the direction
of trade has been due to the purchase of Cuban and Mexican sugar as a
substitute for whoat previously (in 1947) shipped fron the United States.
The relative and real increase of inports fron Asia is, however, an
encouraging developnent.
The $174 nillion in exports for 1947 was distributed as follows: to
Asia. $115 nillion or 66 per cent: to Europe, $25 nillion or 14.3 per cent:
to the United States, $20 rillion or 1l.6 por cent; to all other areas.
$14 nillion or 8.1 por cent. For the first five nonths of 1948 mxports to
Asia were 76 per cent of the total, those to the United States, 16 per
cent — with 8 per cont to Europe, Africa end Latin Anerica.
Principai Cocnoditien
In 1946 and again in l947 foods were the nost important inport itons,
totaling $295 nillion or 56 per cent of the import total for the latter
yoar. For the first five nonths of 1948 industrial raw materials replaced
foods as the leading inport category, with $130.3 nillion or 46 per cent
of the total. Foods at $12l.7 nillion were alnost as important. The
shift in inportance does not nean a decline in food imports, however, but
rather a greater increase of industrial raw naterial inports. The following
table presents the inport data by category and principal comnodity for
1947 and for the first five nonths of 1948.. In addition'a five-nonth
average for 1947 is presented so as to facilitate conparisons with the
first five nonths of 1948.
11
RESTRICTED

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
JAPANESE DAPORTS
Killions of Dollars
1947
1948
Year Five-nonth Average
Five Nonths
TOTAL
526.3
219.3
282.6
Loods
295.2
123.0
121.7
Wheat and Flour
231.8
96.6
51.7
Peas and Beans and
Bean Flour
26.1
10.9
18.7
Canned Goods and Other
Manufactured Foods
26.2
10.9
15.8
Sugar
9.7
4.0
33.6
Meats, Fish and Dairy
Products
1.4
0.6
2.9
Industrial Raw Materials
204.8
85.3
130.3
Raw Cotton
70.0
29.2
67.3
Fertilizer Materials
67.2
28.0
14.8
Petroleun
38.0
15.8
11.3
Salt
12.1
5.0
9.1
Rubber - Crude and Scrap
6.0
2.5
5.0
Oils, Fats and Maxes
3.2
1.3
0.8
Nonnetallic Minerals
2.3
1.0
0.9
Dyes and Pigments
1.0
0.4
1.5
Pulp
1.1
0.5
0.3
Raw Wool and Other Fibers
1.8
0.7
2.4
Iron Oro
0.3
0.1
4.0
Coal
0.3
0.1
3.3
Drugs and Chenicals
1.2
0.5
0.6
All Other
0.3
0.1
6.0
Textile Manufactures except
Bags
6.1
2.5
8.0
Textiles and Clothing
6.1
2.5
8.0
All Other Producta
20.2
8.3
22.6
Machinery
7.2
3.0
0.2
Fiber Products
5.0
2.1
10.9
Miscellaneous Drugs
4.5
1.9
1.1
Other
3.5
1.5
10.4
For the first five nonths of 1948 as conpared with the five-nonth
averages for 1947, the increase in raw cotton imports was the doninant
element. For the former period inports were $67.3 nillion as compared
with $29.2 nillion for the latter.
12
RESTRICTED

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
The imports of fortilizers and fertilizer raterials of $14.8 nillion for
the first five months of 1948 wore wel1 below the $28.0 nillion 1947 five-
month average. Of particular significance is the fact that in the first
five nonths of 1948 1ron ore valued at $4.0 nillion and high-grade coal
valued at $3.3 nillion were inported. Last year only $0.3 million of each
were inported.
In foods the most significant shift in irports involved the use of sugar
(fron Cuba and Mexico) and beans and bean flour (fron tho United States) in
lieu of United States wheat.
In exports cotton yarn and fabric dorinate in 1918 as they did in 1947
but not to tho sare degrec. In 1947 cotton yarn and fabric :'ore alnost 60
per cent of all exports while in the first five ronths of 19:3 the: were
roughly 35 per cent. It should be pointed out that exceptin; for cotton
yarn and fabric the total 1948 export volue for the first five nonths was
above the rates for 1947 even though there were increases and decreases for
individual corr:oditics.
JAPANESE EXPORTS
Millions of Dollars
1947
19.18
YearFiye-ronth Average
Five Months
TOTAL
274.3
72.6
62.9
Foods
403
1.8
3.0
Industriel Raw Materials
30.0
12.5
13.9
Raw Silk
10.8
4.5
4.7
Coal
8.1
3.4
3.8
Metals
4.8
2.0
2.2
Fertilizers and Materials
2.5
1.0
0.9
Other
3.8
1.6
2.3
Textile Manufactures
120.3
50.1
32.6
Cotton Fabric
85.4
35.6
21.0
Cotton Yarn
17.7
7.4
1.5
Rayon Yarn and Fabric
6.0
2.5
3.9
Silk Fabric
6.4
2.7
3.3
Wool Yarn and Fabric
3.1
1.3
1.9
Clothing and Other
1.7
0.7
1.0
All Other Products
19.7
8.2
13.4
Machinery
7.1
3.0
2.6
Lumber
5.6
2.3
1.3
Drugs and Chenicals
2.1
0.9
0.7
Pottery, Clay and Glass
1.1
0.5
1.7
Other
3.8
1.6
7.1
13
RESTRICTED

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Foreign Trade Problecs
It is obvious that, fron the point of view of reviving normal Japanese
foreign trade, cotton inports and cotton textile exports represent the nost
important singlo dovoloprent to date. However, even in this field there are
ovidences of narked weakncsses in the foroign trade patterns. At the
inception of the Occupation, raw cotton on hand was valued at $36 nillion.
To 30 April 1948 coritments fcr additional raw cotton were $210 nillion
and deliveries were $208 nillion. Raw cotton stocks on hand on 30 Apri1
were valued at about $38 million. Thus raw cotton valued at $a08 nillion
had been put in process. Jim export sales through 20 April wore $169
nillion, a figure far short of that required to liquidate the connitments
of $2lo nillion. However, May end June sales should renove the disparity.
and as of 30 June there should probably be enough cotton salos to iquidate
this indebtedness. The cycle, wevertheless, has been longer than initially
anticipated. In spite of the world shortage of tertiles, the revolving
fund principles to date, therefore, have not created surpluses which might
bo utilized to finance expanded purchases abroad.
Two nain bottlenecks to trado expansion, particularly of cotton
textile exports, are the world dollar shortages - aggravated by the decline
of the silk market - and the world food shortages. The Anerican silk market.
which formerly furnished the dollars with which Japan bought Anerican cotton
to sustain the foreign trado cycle, has given no indication of revival to
anything like the old levels. In prewar years Japan financed the major
part of her cotton toxtile business through tho sale of raw silk to the
United States as is ovident bolow.
U. S. RAW COTTON TO JAPAN
JAPANESE RAW SILK TO U. S.
Yoar
Millions of Yen
Millions of Yen
1930
177
399
1931
154
343
1932
321
360
1933
382
356
1934
401
240
1935
372
329
1936
372
334
1937
306
325
1938
166
298
1939
147
438
1940
177
382
To date there has ererged no iten of Japancse nerchandise to replece
silk as the doninent elenent in the foreien trede complex. Under these
circunstances in which Japan lacks the foreign exchange to stimulato
the trado cycle, nost of the raw cotton in, oxcoss of that anount roquired
for oxport as finished goods to liquidate the import cost is being retained
14
RESTRICTED

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
for domestic consumption and is sufficient only to provide a very low
per capita clothing level. Thus the cotton trade cannot yet be expected
to provide substantial additions in foreign exchange with which to expand
trade still more.
The second pasic protlen in Japen's postwar trade has been tho
dependence upon the United States as the principal source of exterior food
supply. Prewar Japan depended prinarily upon Korea, Fornosa and Indo-
China for rice, and upon Australia and to a lesser extent upon Argentina,
Canada and the United States for wheat imports. Crude sugar cane in fron
Formosa and the Netherlands East Indics. The long-term problen of Japan's
food supply can best be met by foods produced in areas relatively near
at hand. Until these areas again have exportable surpluses of food which
they-can trade for Japanese nerchandise, the hopes of extensive normal
trade revival aro slin indeed; Japan will continue to be dependent upon
the United States and to a lesser extent upon Latin Anericen and Australian
foods. This problen has becn complicated further by the fact that the
normal suppliers of Japanese foods -- not only having little or no surplus
food for export currently - also do not have ample dollar crodits with
which to purchase necded Japancse nerchandise which Japan in turn could
then uso to purclasc food or rcw naterials in dollar areas.
This probler should be alleviated to sone degree by the recent decision
to permit the naxinun utilization of GARIoA funds for procuremont in the
Far East. This policy should perrit sone shift in the direction of part
of tho food trade to the near-seas area and sone of the nonies thus
expended will probably be utilizod to purchaso Japanese goods, thus stinu-
lating Japan's trade and furniahing Japan with additional dollars.
A series of favorable current developnents indicate that foreign
trade, both imports and exports, will be raised to higher levels in the
coming nonths. These include the Congressional appropriation of funds
to be earmarked for the first tine for recovery purposes and with which
inports of incroased anounts of basic raw raterials can be obtainod:
the passage of the "Eastland Bill" revolving fund for the purchase of tex-
tile fibers; tho conclusion of a sterling area trade agreerent and the
prospects for additional procurenent of raw cotton fron Pakistan; the
recent increased torpo of immorts of iron ore and coking coal coupled
with the higher level of industrial production already achieved during
tho first half of 1918; and the growing indications of strong donand in
Far Eastorn markcts for machinory end notal products.
15
RESTRICTED

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
PRICES AND WAGES
Effective Consumer Prices
In May for the tenth consecutive month since the sharp price inoreases
during the summer of lo47. the index of effective consumer prices continued
to exhibit a relatively satisfactory degree of stability. Ecwever, in June
the index of effective prices showed a sharp rise of 15 per cent. There is
ample evidence that the June rise is a temporary phenomenan and does not
necessarily indicate, therefore, that the period of relative stability has
come to an end.
Since the beginning of the Cccupation the most inflationary period in
Japan occurred in the first seven months from August 1945 to March 1946.
when the index of effective consumer prices in Tokyo advanced by approxi-
mately 295 per cent, a monthly rate of increase of about 42 per cent. The
currency conversion in March 1946, coupled with a capital levy tax and
other auxiliary measures which siphonod off a substantial amount of the
excess purchasing pewer concentrated in the medium and upper income roups,
was followed by a period of six months of relative stability in the price
level. Thereafter prices turncd upward, and in the three months of May,
June and July 1947, when the food shortage became most acute, prices in-
creased at a rapid rate approximating 24 per cent per ponth. In the ten
months beginning in August 1947 to May 1948, a period of relative stability
was achieved in which the price level increased at a rate approximating
4 per cent per month.
STAGES OF INFLATION IN JAPAN SINCE AUGUST 1945
Consumer Price Index - Tokyo
Monthly
Total
Rate of
Period
Length of
Increase
Increase
Remerks
Period
in
in
Price
Price
Level
Lovel
Per cent
Per cent
Sept.1945-Mar.1946(Incl.)
7 months
293
217
Collapse following
surrender
Apr.1946-Nov.1946
8 months
6
1
March 1946 currency
conversion, etc.
Dec.1946-Apr.1947
5 months
59
12
May 1947-Jul.1947
3 months
73
2420
Food shortage and
ration deleys
3
Aug.1947-May 1948
10 months
39
Relative stability
June 1948
1 month
15
15
16
RECTRICTED

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
The main increases in tho Tokyo index during tho recent ton-month
period were among miscelleneous commodities, this category showing an
increase of 113 per.cent during the period. Among the principa1 com-
modity groups the increase of 26 per cent in staple foods was lowest.
and resulted from: (a) general absence of deleys in the delivery of the
ration, and (b) thè fact that in the previous period of sharp price
advances the prices of staple foods had risen to levels considerably in
excess of those of other categories.
An analysis cf the factors underlying the inoreases in effective
food prices during the recent months indicates the important effects of
blackmarket prices and of distribution controls. In the case of star,le
food, average official prices advanced only l0 per cent betwern Novomber
1947 and May 1948. Blackmarket prices, howover, rose 90 per cent during
the same period and constituted the main factor in the 63 per cent advance
which took place in effective prices of staplo foods. Among nonstaple
foods, official prices rogistered an average increase of 33 per cent, and
free and blackmerket prices 23 per cont. Improvement in distribution
controls, however, particularly in. fish end vegetables, beld the averege .
increases in effective prices of non-staples down to 17 per cont.
The 15 per cent rise in the total index in June resulted prirarily
from a 37 per cent rise in the staple food segment of the index. About
one-third of the June increase in effective prices of staple foods was
brought about by rising blackmarket prices, and about two-thirds of the
increase was due to a shift in the proportions purchased in the blackmarket.
A very marked increase in purcheses of potatoes outside official ohannels
and a heavy substitut ion of sugar for cereals in the ration were the fac-
tors which accounted for the large shift in proportions purchased outside
official merkete. Thus tho June rise in effectivo prices in part reflects
technical characteristics of the index under the abnormal influence of the
substitution of sugar for cereals end the consequent shrinkage in the
quantity of rice and wheat availeble in the officiel market. In future
months when a larger proportion of cereals are sold through the ration,
the abnormality of the June data should become more apparent.
In the postwer period the pattern of expenditures has altered con-
siderably from thet of prewar days as indiceted by the table below.
Food currently accounts for a substantially greater proportion of total
expenditures and non-food items for a correspondingly smaller proportion.
The relative position of steple. foods has increased enormously and re-
flects the severity of the shortage of staple foods
17
RESTRICTED

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Salaried ben
Wage Earners
All Coum
Groups
1934-1936 Average 1934-1936 Average
May 1948
Per cent
Per cent
Per cent
Total Expenditure
100.0
100.0
100.0
Food:
42.5
44.3
66.0
Staple food
13.2
15.5
25.2
Non-staple food
28.3
28.8
40.8
Housing
19.8
17.4
3.8
Fuel and Light
5.7
5.2
3.0
Clothing
13.0
14.2
11.3
Other
20.0
18.9
15.9
In May 194g average blackmerket prices of staple foods were approxi-
mately nine times as high as official prices. For non-steples average black-
market prices exceeded official prices by less than three times. The greater
range in the prices of staple foods results largely from the more pronounced
overall shortage and from the fact that a smaller proportion of the total
quantity moves outside official channels. (Approximately 70 per cent of the
total urban consumption of staple foods in distributed at official prices.)
There is thus a two-fold force of shortage against the blackmarket in staple
foods and the prices are extremely sensitive to variations in supply. With
such high blackmarket prices reletively small changes in the proportion
moving in the official market bring about large changes in: ffectivo prices.
For these reasons from month te month the fluctuations in effective prices
of staple foods are much greater than for any other group of commodities.
'The shortage rf steple foods has the added effact of increasing the
buying pressure against non-staples and thereby tending to exaggerate the
shortage of the letter. Howver, in spite of this fact and of the more
pronounced seasonal variations in supply of non-staple foods, the fluctua-
tions in average effective prices of non-staples have been much less severe
than of staples.
The increeses in the effective price index which hevo teken plece since
last summer must be attributed principally to rising prices in the black-
market. Cfficial prices have increased somewhat but at a relatively slow
rate while distribution controls heve registered some improvement. Subse-
quent to Mey 1948, however, official prices generally are being raised to
conform to current cost conditions as discussed bolow, and these increases
will certainly be roflected--although not in corresponding magnitude--in an
increase in effective consumer prices and in the cost of living.
18
RESTRICTED

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Significant though the impact of the current increeses in offieial
prices undoubtodly will ba; however, the outstanding factor in the price.
picture in the poriod immediately ahead is whother the staple food ration
can contipue to be delivered as scheduled. Last summer by the end of' June
cumulative delays in the delivery of the staple food ration ranged from
seven days in Kobe to seventeen days in Tokyo. These delays were conoen-
trated in May and June, and as previously noted, resulted in a wild inorease
in the cost of living. By contrest; at the end of June this yoar only minor
delays had occurrad.
The more favorable performance during the current year resulted from
(a) larger reloases of imported food, and (b) larger collections of indige-
nous staple foods into official channels. Fron November 1947 to May 1945
inclusive, 807,000 tons of imported staple foods were distributed through
the ration as compared with 464,000 tons during the same period of the
previous food yeer. Collections of indigenous rice and rice substitutes in
the current food year (through May) amounted to 4. 587. 500 tons as compared
with 4.322, l00 for the same period of the previous year. In order to contime
delivery throughout the surmer of the ration as scheduled (which averages
1,246 calories per person per day for the normal consumer). favorable wheat,
barley and potato crops this summer and quota collections thereof must materi-
alize in addition to the timely arrival of approximately 1,00,000 tons of
imported staple foods. Prospects for achieving these goals are fairly good.
Upward Ravision of Official Prices
The lovel of official prices was revised upwerd during the summer of
1947 on the basis of a standard wage-cost level of 1. 800 yen per month, and
the general price level thus established, although punctuated by increases
of individual com odity prices. remained in effect until June l9ug. Wago
rates continued to move upwerd, however, and constituted the basic factor
in the increasing level of costs until the schedule of official prices could
no longer be realistic in terms of.production coets. In recent veeks, there-
fore, the Prica Board has been promulgating a new schedule of official prices
to conform with .current wege levels and cost conditions. These increases will
also result in a sherp riso in th: farm parity index and consequently in the
prices of food. On the averago the price adjustments will approximate an in-
crease of 70 to 80 per cent. A standard wage-cost level of 3. 700 yen per
month has been utilized in making the adjustments.
Price data for selected important commodities are shown in the follow-
ing table:
19
DESTRICTED

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
Prices Paid Producers
Yen
Unit of
Previous
New
Ratio New Price to
Commodity
Measure
Price
Price
1934-1936 Average Price
Coal
MT
956
2,388
318
Pig iron
MT
6,370
14,070
328
Steal ber
MT
9.460
18.450
211
Caustic soda (solid)
MT
12,591
28,853
155
Anmonium sulphate
IT
7.442
18,800
209
Salt
MT
5,166
9.745
238
Cement
MT
1.270
2,921
172
Steel nail
MT
14.090
28.000
153
Sulphur
14T
4.500
10:350
133
Aluminum
MT
77,295
141.616
89
Lumber
Koku
445
670
124
Rayon pulp
100 1b.
815
1,640
139
Newsprint
100 1b.
615
1.280
162
Rayon staple
100 1b.
6.000
11.000
171
Worsted yarn
Lb.
93
248
103
Cotton yarn
Bale
9.920
20,897
98
Sheet glass
100 sq.ft
913
2,200
267
Galvanized steel
sheet
Ea.
62
126
159
Brick
1,000
3.087
4.785
191
Copper wire
100 Kg.
6.250
12.720
122
Because of low levels of output end abnormally high unit costs in many
industries, and because of thc lack of uniformity in wage increases, the
cost structure of the economy is distorted to a merked degree either in terms
of the prewer pattern or of any conceivably normal pattern. For this reason..
the range of increases above the prewar prices, commodity by commodity, is
wide. In order to minimize these distortions and their effects upon the
economy and to prevent the cost of living going to still higher levels, sub-
sidies to a number of key cormodities have also been increased, thereby
holding down their prices to the consuner. These conmodities are basic
meterials and their prices inportantly affect costs and prices throughout
the economy.
The following tablo presents price data for the principal subsidised
commodities:
20
RESTRICTEC

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
Price Data for Principal Subsidised Cormodities
Yen
Unit
New
New
Ratio of
Commodity
of
Producer
Consumer
New Consumer Price to
Measure
Price
Price
1934-1936 Average Price
Coal 1
MT
2,388
1,000
81
Pig iron
MT
14.070
5.150
110
Pig iron 2/
MT
14.070
3.600
77
Steel bar
MT
18,450
10,120
110
Ammonium sulphate
MT
18,800
11.126
110
Caustic soda solid
MT
28,853
20.856
110
11
Price to special consumers only.
2
Price to steel industry only.
New producer prices have been set for summer crops (whoat, barley and
white potatoes) in accordance with the parity formula on the basis of an
cstimated level of 110 times the base period (1934-1936). New consumer
prices were then computed on a pooled basis so that the weighted average
increase over the previous prices would amount to approximately 80 per cent.
The following table presents price deta for the principal foods in the staple
food ration.
Consumer Price Deta for Selected Foods
Yen
Unit
Ratio to
Commodity
of
Previous
New
Per eent
1934-1936
Measure
Price
Price
Increase
Average
Rice
10 Kg.
148.50
266.00
79
105
Wheat flour
10 Kg.
131.50
266.00
102
126
Barley
10 Kg.
127.00
251.00
98
138
Refined sugar
1 Kin
16.10
19.25
20
81
White potatoes
10 Ken
130.00
212.00
63
93
Wages
The continued pressure for higher weges by Japrnese workers has been a
prime factor in the increase of production costs and consequent increases
in official prices. This pressure is generated by depressed consumption and
living standards as compared with prewer levels and by the necessity for
worker's families to supplement rationed quantities of cormodities in the
blackmarket at constently rising prices. The disparity between current wage
21
RESTRICTED

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
and prico lovols is illustrated by the relative incroases which have
cocurrod since prewar years. Thus, comparing with l937, current wage
rates have risen on the average about 75 tines, whereas effective ed
suner prices were 120 to 130 tines the 1937 level even prior to the
setting of the now official prico levols.
The current wage picture is also charactorised by a distortion in
industry relationships as certain industries, particularly coal nining
and electric power, have granted wage increasos far above the average
and have thereby increased the pressures for wage increases on the part
of workers in other industries.
The possibility of achieving an increased degree of stabilisalion in
the period inmediately ahead is none too fevorable. The surmer nonths,
with the undertaintj of the staple food ration and the extrene shortage
of rice, will see rising blackarket prices of staple foods. Couplod with
increases in official prices, the result will probably be an accoleration
in the rather roderate rate of increase which effective consuner prioes
have shown since last sunrer. In such a situation, the wage level will
be subject to renewed prossures.
22
RESTRICTED

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
NATIONAL GOVERNLENT FINANCES
Fiscel Year 1947-48
The final quarter of the fiscal year ending 31 March 1948 was
high-lighted by the collection of income tax in excess of budgeted
goals. Whereas the budget for the year as a whole called for income
tax revenue of 69 billion yen, actual collections reeched 77.9 billion
yen. (The figures on actual collections will be increased still more
as late returns are tabulated.) The relatively favorable collection
record resulted from: (a) the mounting wage levels and consequent
increases in taxes withheld at scurce, and (b) the year-end collection
drive ageist the self-assessment group. In spite of the relatively
satisfactory year-end collections from the self-assessment group, almost
all of the collections in excess of budgeted amounts came from taxes
withheld at source.
Further progress was made during the year in improving tax laws
and edministration. Nevertheless. Japanese tax enforcement and adminis-
tration re an extremely weak. Finel achievement of the revenue goals
was in part at least due to heavy pressuras exerted by SCAP end Military
Government Teams in the field.
During l947-48, though tex collections greatly increased over the
previous year, taxes nevertheless have been ouite low in relation either
to budgetary needs or the levels cf national income. In particuler, the
tax structure hes been deficient in collection of direct income taxes
from the higher income groups, sc that the tax system teken as a whole
is regressive in its burden.
During the past fiscel yeer, primarily es e consequence cf the
increasing trends of both wages and prices, there were thirteen supple-
mental generel account budgets in eddition to the original budget. The
original budget enticipeted total expenditures in the generel eccount of
1l4.5 billion yen; however together with the thirteen supplements the
finel budget called for total expenditures of 2l4.3 billion yen. It is
significent to note thet 85 per cent of the totel increpses above the
original budget took place in the saventh supplenentel budget in November
1947, as a consequence of the substential increeses which took place
earlier in the fiscal yeer both in officiel prices end in wege rates.
These price and wage increeses inevitebly ceused merked increeses in
government expenditures.
As a result of favorable yeer-end collections of texes by the gov-
ernment (particulerly income end non-wer sufferers' taxes) and of other
due and past-due obligations (nctably of ravenues fron the food adminis-
tration and from government monopolies), a period of relative stability
in the size of the netional debt and of the note issue of the Cantrel
Benk began at the end of December 1947, end continued for several months.
es evidenced below:
23
RESTRICTE[

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
(Billion Yen)
Bank of Japan
Tax Receipts
National Debt
Note Isme
(During month)
(End of month)
December 1947
372.8
219.1
Januery 1948
(a)
9.2
386.2
218.0
February 1948
(a)
32.5
362.1
215.3
March 1948
(b)
22.9
360.8
218.8
April 1948
(a)
23.1
358.2
230.4
Mey 1948
(a)
14.5
365.6
223.5
June 1948
(b)
16.2
367.0
230.6
(a) 4 weeks ended January 31, February 28, May 1, and Mey 29. 1948.
(b) 5 weeks onded Apri1 2 and July 3, 1948.
As tex receipts agein turned downward in the new fiscal yeer. the
note issue of the Central Bank rerched new high levels in June: and dur-
ing the coming months as government revenues continue to lag behind .
expenditures, it is probable that the temporary period of stabi lity in
the size of both tho national dobt and the note issue will be ended.
The 1948 General Account Budget
After much debate and deley the general account budget for the cur-
rent fiscal yerr beginning 1 April 1948 has been passed by the Diet and
has the following principal features in comperison with the budget of the
past fiscsl year:
a. Total ravonues (and expenditures) are estinated at 4l4.5 billion
yen, 1.94 times the level of tho past year's budgets.
b. The higher levels rosult principally from higher wege and price
lavels, and do not reflect any substantial increase in governnental
activities. In fect, there is a decrease in ectivities for "ternination
of the war" inasnuch as estimated expenditures have been increased much
less than the change in prices would call for.
c. Estinates of income tax revenue are substantially higher. with
tho larger part of the increase lovied ageinst the self-assesament group.
d. Excise and connodity tax revenue estimates ere incroased greatly.
and a transaction tax has boen Anstituted which is estimated to yield a
further substantial sun.
e. A large increase in revenue is anticipated to come from price
differential profits (inventory profits on stocks held by the government
resulting from the current increeses in official prices).
24
RESTRICTED

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.99)
RESTRICTED
In appraising the tax and revenuo structure and tax goals for
this yeer, it cen be seen that in general considerable improvement
has been planned. Total ryvenues are expected to be nearly 22 per
cent and total taxes 14 per cent of projected national income of
1,900 billion yen for the fiscal year, while in 1947-48 the corren
sponding figures were 19 and 12 per cent of an income of 1,150 billion
yon. Purthormore, personel income tax is expected this year to be 35
per cont of total revenues, as ageinst 33 per cent last year, and will
constitute 7? per cent of prospective national income in contrast
with only 6.0 per cent of totel income payments in final 1947-48. The
burden of income tax hes also been shifted somewhat--lrbor income will
pay 5.6 per cent in withholding tax ageinst wages and saleries in
1948-49: the share withheld in 1947-48 was 5.3 per cent. Groups sub-
feot to self-assessment on the other hand paid taxes last year equal
rough y to 6.5 per cent of total income, while this yeer they are
expected to pey 9 per cent of prospective income from the fiscal year.
Encouraging though all this is. it remgns true that in the light of
the pattern of price pressures end consumer expenditures, and rolative
to netional incone and capecity to pay, the Japanese economy as a whole
is considerably under-taxed: end relatively too little still is outained
fron direct incyx tax on the solf-assesament groups.)
The income tax laws have been amended this year so as to lessen
the tax burden espocially on the lower income groups of wage earners.
Personel uxe.aptiens and fenily allowances have been raised and tax
rates adjusted. The gain to these groups is nevertheless largely
offset by the intreduction of a general 1 per cent transactions tax
which is regressive in character and tends to set back the procoss of
tax reform end modernization in Japan. It goes into effect in November
this year. While it exempts rationed and some other specified foods,
governpent monopoly goods like tobacco and liquor, end certein other
transactions, it is nevertheless a heavy additional burdan on the
masses of consumers. In addition it has a pyraniding effect on prices
and thus is to some degree a directly inflationary fecter.
In the following table are shown the general account budgets for
the current and past fiscal years and the ratio of the former to the
latter.
25
RESTRICTED

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
BUDGETS OF NATIONAL GOVERNENT GENERAL ACCOUST
FISCAL YEARS - 1947-1948 AND 1948-1949
1948-491947-48
Ra$1.0
(Billion Yen)
Totel Revenue
414.5
214.3
1.94
Income Tex"
Self-assessmont
(108.2)
(49.2)
2.30
Withholding
(38.1)
(19.8)
1.92
Total
146.3
69.0
2.12
Liquor Tax
45.7
23.9
1.91
Textile Excise and Comnodity Taxes
25.6
9.9
2.58
Transaction Tax
21.4
0.0
All Other Taxes
28.7
32.6
0.88
Profits from Governnent Enterprises,Etc.
100.7
55.8
1.80
Prices Difforential Profits
21.0
7.1
2.96
All Other Revenue
25.1
16.0
1.57
Totel Expenditures
414.5
214.3
1.94
Terminetion of Her
92.6
64.0
1.44
Price Adjustments
51.5
23.9
2.16
Pub lic Works
43.5
14.7
2.96
Allotment Local Tex
39.2
19.7
1.98
Reconvarsian Finence Bank
18.0
6.0
3.00
Government Enterprise Rehabilitation
39.8
16.4
2.42
All Other Expenditures.
129.9
69.6
1.86
Further Rime in Nationel Debt and Note Issue
In spite of the fact that the generel account budget is estimated to
be in belence, the ectivitios of the netional government will continue to
require support from the Centrel Benk end brine out increased ourroncy
issuo and national debt. This arises out of the following conoiderations:
1. General eccount revenues will lag behind oxpenditures and thus
necessitate short-tern funding by tha Centrel Bank.
2. The government's various special accounts will require large
borrowings which cannot be liquidated during the fiscel year. It is not
yet possible to meke definite estimates of these agnitudes. but the
natura of the principal speciel account activities are as follows:
26
RESTRICTED

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.98)
RESTRICTED
. The Reconversion Finance Benk during the year will need to
borrow in excess of 50 billion yen which, in turn, will be advanoed to
industry for the purpose of financing essential productive activities
and reconstruction.
b. The govarnment must issue bonds in the anount of about 23
billion yen in meeting unasual finenciel and industrirl guarantees chiefly
arising out of the liquidation of the "old" eccounts of the banks in con-
noction with the finencial raorgenisetion brought on by the war's end.
c. The rice crop will be collected but not fully distributed
during the fiscal year, and at substantially higher prices than paid for
the last crop. Conseguently the Food Administration will require net
borrowing in excess of 30 billion yen for the purpose of building inven-
tory during the fiscal year.
d. The Railway and Communications Accounts contemplate long-tern
borrowings of the megnitude of 40 billion yen, chiefly for new construo-
tion and cepital improvement.
3. The lergest unknown element in the picture lies in the foreign
trado account. If imports excoed axports by a wide margin, a large yen
surplus will be accunuleted. However, if exports are increased relatively
more this belance will dininish and night even develop into a temporary
yen deficit in the account.
f. There are several additionel accounts which probably will
require further but rolatively snaller borrowings. Aiso a certein amount
of borrowing on the part of the locel governments is probable.
The Sources of Governnent Borrovine end the Distribution of Nationel Debt
Since the end of the war savings on the part of the publio have
been largoly inaccessible as e source for governnent borrowings. There
is little evidence that the current yeer will see any marld chenge in
this condition. It is 1mossible to drein ewey and "sterilize" any lerge
part of the excess purchesing power end thus relieve the expending strain
upon tho credit fecilities of the Japenese benking systen: The governdent
must continue to borrow chiefly fron the Ben) -of Japen. which in Mrch held
54 por cent of the outstending netional debt.
The table below shows tho trend of the nationel debt, end the dis
tribution of holdings of the debt batween 30 Septenber 1946 end 31 Merch
1948. The peek level of national debt wes 386 billion yen on 31 January
1945; on 30 June this yoar et 367 billion yen it was sti11 5 per. cent
below the provious poak.
27
RESIRICIEO

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
DISTRIBUTION OF HOLDIEGS OF THE HATIONAL DEBT
Billions of Yen
1946
1940
1946
30 Sept.  31 March
Sent
Bank of Japan
34.2
193.7
14.6
53.7
Ordinary Banks
40.7
53.3
17.4
16.3
Reconversion Finance Bank
2.3
0.6
Other Banks
22.2
17.3
9.5
.4.8
Other Investors
137.2
69.2
58.5
a4.7
Total National Debt
234.3
360.8
100.0
100.0
Not only is the Bank of Japan the principal creditor of the government
at present, and by its current lending operations the direct source of
ionetary expansion, but as the above table brings out, it has even been
absorbing the previous holdings of other investors, 1.e., the public at
large.
Thus the outlook for the re ainder of the fiscel year is that expan-
sion of the national debt will be resuned, involving further large increase
in the note issue in the hands of the public. It would be naive, however.
to lay primo stress on the note issue as a cause of inflation in general
or on "control" of tho note issue-by wey of contrecting essential economic
activities particularly in the special accounts--as a stabilisation neasure.
Rather, these nonatery phenonena ere basically merely symptoms and effects
of the pore fundemental maladjustments in the econony, involving shortages
of supolies, naldistribution of supolies end of purchesing power, the need
to expend production and econonic activity generelly. and a large degree
of ineffectiveness of the fiscal end nonetery systens.
Bank Loans to Non-Governnentel Borrowers
Though government borrowing hes been the principal feeder of increesed
noney supply, the operations of the connerciel ben ing system and of gov-
ernment loans to private business have also contributed. Ordinary benks
and the Reconversion Finence Bank are forced to borrow fron the Benk of
Japan the funds for a large pert of their loens to business, and thus the
note issue is swe lled.
The increase of bank credit to industry by types of institution 1s
shown below:
26
RESTRICTED

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
RESTRICTED
BANK LOANS TO BUSINESS AND OTHER NON GOVERNENT BORROVERS
Billions of Yen  Per Cant Distribution
1946
1946
1946
1948
30 Sopt.
31 March
Sopt.
Harch
Bank of Japan
42.1
58.1
63.1
20.7
Ordinary Banks (new accounts)
13.8
124.6
20.7
44.5
Reconversion Finance Bank
59.5
21.3
8
Other Benks (new accounts)
10.0
30.2
16.3
13.6
Total Loens
66.7
260.4
100.0
100.0
A co prehensive survay of benk loans (excepting those of the Bank of
Japan) was conducted es of 30 Septenber 1947 embrecing reports covering
161,792 loans toteling 116.9 billion yen made subsequent to August 1946
and outstending as of the survey dete. The najority of these loens were
for suns renging between 20 thousand yen and 500 thousend yen. However, a
relatively few large borrowers donineted the picture. Dighty-three per
cent of the total emount of all loens were advenced to & per cent of the
borrowers, end each of these loans exceeded 1 million yen. Fifty-four
per cent of the total anount of all loans were advenced to 1 per cent of
the borrowers, and eech of these loans excseded 10 million yen.
The purposes of these lomns were reported as follows:
Purpose
Nuuber
Anount
Current operations and inventories
140,256
¥ 88.7 billion
Cepital repeirs and expansion
21,372
20.4 
All other purposes
20,164
7.8 "
By industry these loens wore distributed as follows:
Business of Borrower
Nurber
Anount
Totel
131.792
¥116.9 billion
Hanufecturing
01.130
Agriculture
21,612
1.0*
Reteil Trade
17.050
1.7 n
Wholesale Trede
14,359
11.0
Mining
2,524
11.6
All Other
45,117
43.8
29
RESTRICTED

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.98)
DO NOT D
DETACH THIS FORM
894.50/8-2848
FILE NO.
RECORD COPY
DESP.564 FRCM TOKYO
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A  DESPATCH  TELEGRAM  AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
151
FAP
M-184
11-9-48

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.84)
FE
0c/R
RESTRICTED
SEP 1 0 1948
564
10.
Tokyo, …u ust 28 1948
 jet: res iutal of eport utitlad  conolic onditions
 J .
Che. ctin:  oliticat ivisor Las te honor to oncloso five
copics  pport dated  a ust l9l, conpilod by dhe 'cononic
nd ciontie cui   puarters and mtitled  conoric
oni tions in  an". 1e  cort covore the poth of June, 1943.
n ne uo port st tos, totalied ore ta
 er ct o e 1230-1934 level for the second oth in
Rec'd
succes ion,   l ctl n ccly o increased coal ontput. Textale
sept 3
etion, ever, la  l n conotituted a aajor dopress-
in clemt. riceo me sorply, tut, x  poct states, the rise
ACTIUN
894.
a rt a  oon  icial rarket
FL
a o. the w stitution or ma ar or cereols in ration, aud ie mot
  Lropreved en a rastie che fro te  codin peried of
INFO
ve  a  coin  se  rn
IR
58
FR
DCR
r  ent iwerncrearee,
ITP
o a deel ren po Ler pod urrene vitl l neceoear
OFL
 o toal  il  o Lottloncc
OLA
 ra roth er t an l on cone ut the ajor obste
COM-ENC
Yo t ' ecoor ie recove
2848
TAR-LNC
TRLAS-ENC
FRB-FNC
closure:
an copi  e ort on
coo de on itions in ctpan"
int. ue 7
50
soidenoticter, Jr.is
.T
RESTRICTED

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.91)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITD STATES POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
Tol8tSI00p05mber 10, 1948.
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAINS
CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT. USE OILY)
OCT 1 5 1948
Dy
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Sul juct: Progress of Meonomic Peconeentration Progran.
2F
2
24 M
OLORDLE
 SH SATE
NN.
1948'SEP
3ir
Lave  e ! nor  enelose li ins from the Pacific Stars
and Stripes an the Mippon Times iealing with the progress of the
economic deconcentration  ro ram in apan, and to report on comments
894.50/9-1048
made in that onnestion t officiale  the Anti-Trust and Cartels
Division,  momic al Seientific Section, AP, in conversations
wit an officer of :ission.
11
894.50/4231
X/L CED
ACTICS
of Fel ruary 27, 1040 an1 lespateh . 24? of April 23, 1948. The f 
COF
polic: in tiis  adpuarters las cen to designate companies for de-
TO:
Dished by the Holdin: Company Liauidation Commission, and to delete
companies w ici sul se nt investi gation may show not to le excessive
concentrations. Such a olicy, it is believed, shoul remove uncer-
tainties t at ri t act as a deterrent to Japanese economic recovery,
ant sh  therely re tuee criticism o the program both in Japan and
in the Uni e States.
Two hundred fifty-seven industrial companies were designated as
excessive concentrations, on February 9, l9, and 69 distributive
A/MK
and service companies on February ?2, 1943 (see this lission's des-
patch No. 126 of February ?7, 1948). On Yay 2, 1948 the Holding
Company Liquidation Comnission announced that 194 companies had been
released from desi nation for reorganization. ifty of the firms, the
announcement said, were found not to constitute excessive concentra-
CON
tions; the other 14 either were excessive concentrations which, be-
cause of plant structure, did no: lend thenselves to reorganization,
but which would nevertheless continue under the surveillance of the
Fair Trades Commission, or were minor concentrations whose monopoly
character wo ld be removed by such steps as sale of stocks in other
companies or lisposal of  lants unrolated to the main line of business
On July 1, 194? the Jommission announced that further investi-
cation had resulted in the release of 31 more companies from the
necessity of reorganizin. The announcement emphasized that the com-
companies
CONFIDENTIAL
lais shut rome

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's No. 596
September 10, 1948
CONF IDEITIAL (FOR DEPT. USE ONLY) -2-
companies would nevertheless be required to divest themselves of
stock holdings in other companies, and that in some cases trade-
marks woild be changed and certain unrelated properties disposed of.
There are tius one hun ired companius remaining on the list desig-
nated for reorganizavion, f vhich only forty or fifty, it is be-
lieved in the Anti-Trus an: artels Division, will ultimately be
re pir to reor anize. Procedure under the ec ncentration Law re-
ires that a preliminary order be drawm up by the Holding Company
Lipuidation "ormission, that a hearing cpen to all interested par-
ties, including s' pelthol iers, creditors, un: representatives of em-
loyees, e hel I no earlier than fifteen lays after transnittal of
iminar ler, anat final der be drafted on the
asis of in: rratin received in the hearin. Within thirty days
ereafter tpea? the Prime Yinister on rounds
of ineufficient idence or omission of evidence.
In pratice, th proliminar rders are drawn up by the Anti-
rust an ortels Division in conference with the Holding Company
Li lat: ission and the mpany concermed, and cleared through
interest : sections f Headpuarters, such as the Industrial Division
or the Finance Division.
Che Deconeentration Review oard receives the preliminary order
together with the case file a ter the rder has cleared Headquarters
an! is realy  ricial tranamittal to the company. The Foard, as
the De artment is aware, arive! in Tolgo in June, 1948, and is em-
wered o re rt direetly  eneral  vArthur, but administratively,
it is consi lerei as ar:  e Economic and Scientific Section.
Accor lin its tm  ferenee, thecard is limited to findings
of fact; its rimary coneern is whether or not the proposed reorgan-
izatin will intorfere  oconomic recovery of Japan. hether
or no  ar as Iiti itself to such findings o fact is a
matter sarr sa reement in this Headquarters, it being felt by
Ir. E. lsi,  if   Anti-Trust an cart Is Division,that
the r in inter stol pimarily in minimizing the effects of the
Des moor rat n Law (Lay . 207 of 1247), regardless of whether or
not evi lence  an a ivorse effect on the Japanese economy can le
shovm.
The reorgani ation f the Miny on Soda Jompany, mentioned in
the nolosed Nippon Times article, is regardet as a case in point.
It represonts the first instance under the Deconcentration Law in
which a final or ler for reorganizat on  as been completed and cleared
throu oadquarters; previous or lers ave teen concerned with only
such porparatively minor itess as stoe isposal. The case was
selected carefally, a corlin  ficiels f the Anti-Trust and
Jartels Division. s at  rosontel no s ecial protlems and could
therefore be used as a test  the pos sim a the Deconeentration
Review ari. o ate Yations nati mals hel stock in the company;
tho conpany itsel: voiced no oppositio to reorganization, and indeed
appoared enerally i avor of it, a  nally, the Anti-trust and
Cartels Division felt that no stron: case  vli be made to show that
the Japanese aconomy woul: suffer fro tho reorganisation, the company
itself agreein that operations would le nore efficient with the re-
noval of central control.
4 preliminary
CO:TTDETIAL

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.88)
Tokyo's No. 596
September 10, 1948
CONFIDENTIAL (FOR DEPT.  SE CLY) -3-
A prelininar. rder was therefere repared breaking Nippon Soda
into six com anies,  i in wm as Sanwa Soda, Mippon Chemical, Nippon
"lectro-Steel, Mip. on : inine, isshin M inins, and Tohoku Mining, with
captalizat: ns  Frm 35,yen3,00,000 yen. Before the
Lear n, wh  was  on Au ust 1o, th Peconcentration Review Board
e tet  tly n eriowe witi. officers  the company, at which,
atothe e?
he Anti-Trus' n! Jartels Division, con-
si deral le pressure was pla e on the icers in luestion to contest
 torviers, r. els saiI. were concerned more with
Taw tan with questions
at  earinand the
st. Yr. R. 3. Jampbell, Chair-
ri. has stated to a member of
ose touel with company of-
intorestd in the precedent which will be
thi: particular case. Even should
ses, nake an
rse disniss the
jo in lue course,
possi'l ne ffects of the
to theDepartment's
al points in the appli-
.
a川1
Hion, Pacific Stara
JONTIDERTIAL

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to Despatch No.
596 dated September 10, 1948
from the Office of the Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Progress of Economic
Deconcentration Program".
EGS
STARS AND STRIPES: Aug, 26, 1948
Japanese Reds Fight
SCAP'SFiscalPolicy
By PETER KALISCHER
UP Correspondent
The Japancse Communist party has ordered an all-out
Reorganization of the com
fight against business deconcentration because the SCAP-
inspired program is directed against Red objectives "and the
Communists know it," an Allied headquarters official told
up the pattern and makes the
'the United Press.
Communists' objectives much
Edward C. Welsh, chief of
more diffcult to attain,"
the ESS Anti-Trust and Car-
said.
tels division, said that Com-
"They find it easier to turn
munist directives have been a Fascistic economy into
issued instructing members to Communistic economy be
disrupt the- breaking up of
cause the differences are-
Japanese monopolistic com-
latively slight and neitherl
bines with "strikes" and "sabo-
handicapped, in the Commu-
tage."
nist sense, by democrátic
Welsh, a former Office of
freedom as we know it in the
Price Administration official,
United States."
has been under fre from cer-
Without referring to his
tain sections of the American
press ever since the inception
ed that opposition to thede
of the deconcentration pro-
concentration program.was
gram. A column by Raymond
creating some "embarrassed
Moley in the August, 23, issue
bedfellows." It also found
of Newsweek charged Welsh
the "control-crazed" Zaibatsi
with being one of "a lot of
in secret support of the Comt
New Dealers (in Japan) whose
munists, he asserted, while no
ideas if unchecked will turn
or.e who actually ekama
the country into a Commu-
the program "has or can show
nist state."
how it will decrease produc
Welsh vigorously defended
tive effciency.
the deconcentration program
as encouraging "private man-
agement, private ownership,
freedom of private enterprise,
competition based on effici-
ciency rather than govern-
mental privilege—all the basic
principles of private capi-
talism."
He said Japanese Commu-
nists were opposed to decon-
centration because under for-
mer Zaibatsu owners Japa-
nese business combines were
"all,ready to be taken over
as they were and na-
tionalized."

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.98)
Bmclesure Ne. 1 to 
S06 from the arrsee of
eal Aviser for 
sabjest, "Pregress of Beom
STARS AND STRIPES: Aug, 26, 1948
EGS
Japanese Reds Fight
SCAP'SFiscalPolicy
By PETER KALISCHER
UP Correspondent
The Japanese Communist party has ordered an all-out
He said Japanese Commu-
fight against business deconcentration because the SCAP-
nists were opposed to decon-
inspired program is directed against Red objectives "and the
centration because under for
Communists know it," an Allied headquarters official told
mer Zaibatsu owners Japa-
the United Press.
nese business combines were
Edward C. Welsh, chief of
"all ready to be taken over
the ESS Anti-Trust and Car-
as they were' and na-
tels division, said. that Com-
tionalized."
munist directives have been
Reorganization of .the com-
issued instructing members to panies into' "financially sound,
disrupt the breaking up of competing organizátiona breaks
Japanese monopolistic com- up the pattern and makes the
bines with "strikes" and "sabo- Communists' objectives much
tage."
more difficult to attain," he
Welsh, a former Office of
said.
Price Administration official,
"They find it easier to turn
has been under fire from cer-
a Fascistic economy into
tain sections of the American
Communistic economy be-
press ever since the inception
cause the differences are re
of the deconcentration pro-
latively slight and neitheris
gram. A column by Raymond
handicapped, in the Commu-
Moley in the August 23, issue
nist sense, by democratic
of Newsweek charged Welsh
freedom as we know it in the
with being one of "a lot of
United States."
New Dealers (in Japan) whose
Without referring to his
ideas if unchecked will turn
critics by name, Welsh observ-
the country into a Commu-
ed that opposition to the de-
nist state."
concentration program was
Welsh vigorously defended
creating some: "embarrassed
the deconcentration program
bedfellows." It also found
as encouraging "private man-
the "control-crazed" Zaibatsu
agement, private ownership,
in secret support of the Com-
freedom of private enterprise,
munists,.he asserted, while no
competition based on effici-
or.e who actually examined
ciency rather than govern-
the program "has or can show
mental privilege—all the basic
how it will decrease produe-
principles of private capi-
tive efficiency."
talism."

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.98)
subjest, "Pregress of Moand
STAS AND STRIPES: AUg. 26. 1948
EGS
Japanese Reds Fight
SCAP'SFiscalPolicy
By PETER KALISCER
UP Correspondent
The Japanese Communist party has ordered an all-out
fght against business deconcentration because the SCAP-
He said Japanese Commu-
inspired program is directed against Red objectives "and the
nists were opposed to decon-
Communists know it," an Allied headquarters official told
centration because under for-
the United Press.
mer Zaibatsu owners Japa-
Edward C. Welsh, chief of
nese business combines were
the ESS Anti-Trust and Car-
"all ready to be taken over
tels divísion, said that Com-
as they were andna-
munist directives have been
tionalized."
Reorganization of the com-
issued instructing members to
disrupt the breaking up of
panies into "financially sound,
competing organizations breaks
Japanese monopolistic com-
up the pattern and makes the
bines with "strikes" and "sabo-
Communists' objectives much
tage."
more diffcult to attain," he
Welsh, a former Office of
Price Administration official,
said.
"They find it easier to turn
has been under fire from cer-
Fascistic economy into a
tain sections of the American
Communistic economy be-
press ever since the inception
cause the differences are re-
of the deconcentration pro-
latively slight and neither is
gram. A column by Raymond
handicapped, in the Commu-
Moley in the August 23, issue
nist sense, by democratic
of Newsweek charged Welsh
freedom as' we know it in the
with being one of "a lot of
United States."
New Dealers (in Japan) whose
Without referring to his
ideas if unchecked will turn
critics by name, Welsh observ
the country into a Commu-
ed that opposition to the de-
nist state."
concentration program wa
Welsh vigorously defended
creating some "émbarrasse
the deconcentration program
bedfellows." It also found
as encouraging "private man-
the "control-crazed" Zaibatsu
agement, private ownership,
in secret support of the Com-
freedom of private enterprise,
munists, he asserted, while no
competition based on effici-
ciency rather than govern-
the progrank "has or ean show
mental privilege—all the basic
principles of private capi-
tive effciency."
talism.'

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.98)
Inelooure No. 1 to Doapetsh Nto.
frem the orrice of the Pelitdeal
Adviser fer Japan, Tokye, on the
subjest, "Progress of Becmemis
EGS
STARS AND STRIPES: Aug, 26, 1948
Japanese Reds Fight
SCAP'SFiscalPolicy
By PETER KALISCHER
UP Correspondent
The Japanese Communist party has ordered an all-out
fight against business deconcentration because the SCAP.
inspired program is directed against Red objectives "and the
Communists know it," an Allied headquarters offcial told
Reorganization of the
the United Press.
panies into "fnanciallye don
Edward C. Welah, chief of
competing organisatione.
the ESS Anti-Trust and Car-
up the pattern and makes
tels division, said that Com-
Communists' objectives
munist directives have been
more diffcult to attain,"
issued instructing members to
said.
disrupt the breaking up of
"They find it easler to tura
Japanese monopolistic com-
a Fascistic economy into
bines with "strikes" and "sabo-
Communistic economybe
tage.
cause the differences are re
Welsh, a former Office' of
latively slight and neither
Price Administration ,official,
handicapped, in the Compu
has been under fire from cer-
tain sections of the American
freedom as we know it in
press ever since the inception
United States."
of the deconcentration pro-
Without referring to
gram. A column by Raymond
critics by name, Welsh ob
Moley in the August 23, issue
ed that opposition to the
of Newsweek charged -Welsh
concentration program
with being one of "a lot of
creating some "embarra
New Dealers (in Japan) whose
bedfellows." It also: fo
ideas if unchecked will turn
the "control-crazed" Zaibe
the country into a Commu-
in secret support of the Co
nist state."
munists, he, asserted, whilé mo
Welsh vigorously defended
or.e who actually éxamined
the deconcentration program
the program "has or can show
as encouraging "private man-
how it will decrease 'produo-
agement, private ownership.
tive effieiency."
freedom of private enterprise,
competition based on effci-
ciency rather than govern-
mental privilege-all the basic
principles of private capi-
talism."
He said Japanese Commu-
nists were opposed to decon-
centration because under for-
mer Zaibatsu owners .Jape-
nese business combines were
"all ready to be taken over
as they were and na-
tionalized."

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. ? to Despatch No.
596 dated September 10, 1948,
from the Office of the Political
Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the
subject, "Progress of Economic
Deconcentration Progran".
NIPPON TIMES: Aug. 28, 1948
EGS
Plans for Reorganization
Of Key Industries Pushed
Program Completed or Near Final Stage for
Textiles, Steel, Chemicals, Movies
By PETER KALISCHER
United Press Staff Correspendent
Reorganization plans for
Among the Big Ten, plans
companies in four key Japa-
for three cotton spinning com-
nese industries are completed
panies do not call for struc-
or near the final draft stage,
tural reorganizations,
Mr.
Edward Welsh, chief of the
Welsh said.
ESS Anti-Trust and Cartels
2. Steel—Of the designated
Division told the United Press.
nine companies five have been
The affected industries are
removed without structural
textiles, steel, chemicals and
reorganization. They are the
motion pictures.
Kokura Steel Co., Japan Steel
In an industry-by-industry
Works, Daido Steel Co., Naka-
breakdown, Mr. Welsh said the
yama Steel Co., and Mitsu-
following steps had been taken:
bishi Steel Co.
1. Textiles—A total of 26
The four feady for reorgani-
companies have been desig-
zation are the Japan Iron and
nated for reorganization. Of
Steel Co., Kobe Steel (prob-
these, 10 companies were re-
ably into five companies), Ja-
moved without structural
pan Steel Tube Co., and Fuso
break-up, although they were
Steel Co.
divested of their holding com-
3. Chemicals—In the salt.
panies and other monopolistic
acids and soda subdivision the
features.
Nippon Soda Co. was broken
The remaining 16 companies
up into six companies. Two
include the Big Ten spinning
other companies were order-
companies, the Katakura and
ed to reorganize but not along
Gunze Silk companies, Nippon
structural lines.
Wool Co., Imperial Rayon Co.,
In the soap, cosmetics and
Toyo Rayon Co., and the Im-
medicines subdivision two
perial Textile Co. (Flax and
companies have been designat-
hard fibres.)
ed for reorganization but not
None of these companies has
along structural lines.
received reorganization orders,
In the dyes, plastics and ex-
Mr. Welsh said. The orders plosives subdivision six com-
are expected to be finalized panies have been designated
soon subject to review by the of which the Hodogaya Chemi-
Deconcentration Review Board. cal Co. and the Japan Synthe-
The companies are expected
 tic Resin Company  will not
to be reorganized two or three
be reorganized along struc-
different ways— financially,
tural lines.
structurally, etc.
Plans for the structural re-
Mr. Welsh stressed that none
organization of the Nisshin
of the designated companies'
Chemical Co., Mitsui Chemical
plants or compounds would be
Co., Nippon Dynamite Co., and
broken up. Reorganization
the Asahi Chemical Co., are
plans, as previously published
nearly completed.
by the Cotton Spinning Asso-
4. Motion Pictures —the
ciation are along "fiber lines"
Daiei, Toho, Shochiku, Toyoko
—leaving cotton, silk, and wool Eiga and Nikkatsu companies
plants as individual units. have all been designated for
Even where a predominantly reorganizations with emphasis
one-fiber plant also manufac- on separating distribution and
tures another fiber both fibers exhibiting agencies from the
would be left in a single unit.iproduction end.

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.94)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
NA - Mr. Alson
DATE: Ootober 25, 1948
TO
FROM
SUBJECT:
Attached: Tokyo's 596
17
This despatoh on the Progress of Economic Deconoentre
M
tion Program points out that of the 325 companies designa
last February as "excessive concentrations" only l00 compenies)
now remain on the list designated for reorganization. or? 
these, only 40 or 50 will ultimately be required to reorgantz
according to opinion in the Anti-Trust and Cartele Division
八
On the basis of this despatch it 1s evident that con-
C
siderable friotion has developed between the Deconcentration
1
Review Board and Mr. Welsh, Chief of the Anti-Trust and
Cartels Division. The latter privately charges that although
the Board is limited to findings of fact, it is primarily
104
intereeted ertdentry in minimizing the effects of the Decony
centration Law, regardless of whether or not evidence of an
adverse effect on the Japanese economy can be shown.
0
The August 1948 order breaking up the Nippon Soda Corp.
into six companies is the first instance under the Decon-
centration Law in which a final order for reorganization has
been completed and cleared through GHQ, previous orders
having related only to stock disposal and other comparatively
minor iteme. The test case of the Nippon Soda was carefully
selected by the Anti-Truet and Cartels Div1sion because it
was uncomplicated by special problems and because no strong
case could be made to show that the company would suffer
from reorganization. Mr. Welsh complained that despite all
this and despite the fact that the company iteelf had
previously agreed that its operations would be more efficient
with the removal of central control, the Deconcentration
Review Board applied considerable pressure on officials of
the Nippon Soda Corp. to contest the reorganization order.
Mr. Welsh regarded this as a good 1llustration of the DRB'a
primary concern with the political theory of the Deconcentra-
tion Law rather than with the question of 1ts effect on the
Japanese economy. Even though the final order on Nippon
Soda has been tranemitted, the DRB may etill, if 1t chooses,
ε
make an adverse report to SCAp leading to a possible dismissal
of the reorganization proceeding.
68
A.
SS
1001.5
19-109
CONFIDENTIAL
f
8

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.91)
September 13, 1948
Jear . raper:
tastoration of Japan to self-support is a major objective of
.. forein policy. ihe "rolicy ecomendations ith tespect to
CO
Japan pr sentiy before the ationa! -ecurity council provide that,
us an inportant step to this and, the Japenesu dovernment and people
ahould assure increasin res, onsibility for Japanese economio rocovery.
owever, a ma jor obstacle to effectuation of this recommandation may
50/9-1348
well arise, nmely, the appuront expectation of the Japanese Govern-
ment and people that they can rely upon continued U. . aid to reliove
the of the results of any failure on their part to initiate or carry
out effective econonic policies.
An o portunity for disavusing the japanese of this axpeotation
ill shortly prusent itself. ohi has recently been requested to
prepare, in conjunctlon with tho Japanese Government, a long-range
econonic recovery plan, which will include realistic economic goals
that can be accopted by the .. and Japanese Covernments. CAf
is exp cted to forward that plan to ashington in ctober, for r
view ant pproval by the u.. overnment. I suggest that the State
and r y Depart ents, after approvin, that plan, comunioate the
follovin policies conc-rning its execution to CAf, and ask sCAr
to make thun knorm to the Japanuse overniant and poople:
(a; full resppnsiuility for execution of the plan
to be assuned uy the Japanese overnent;
CS/
() cor.tinuousiy to inepect Japanese economic
perforance under this plan, and to :orward quarterly
reports thereon to the .. Government;
2>
(c) consideration of these reports by the tate and
Arry Jepartments to serve as a basis for poriodio decisions
by the .. overnment concernin. both the amount of
Japanese
1
The Honorable
illian . Draper, r.,
Under ocretary of the Ary,
ashin, ton, . 6.
y
dest
2721

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
2
Japanese appropriated aid to be requested of the cougress
durin: the next fiscal year and the extent to wuich appre-
priated aid made available by the ongress for use in the
occupied areas is to be assigned to Japan curing any given
period of the current fiscal year.
The adoption of these policies wiil place our Japanese aid progrem
on sonewnat the sane basis as our aid prograns in other parts of the
world. They will, at course, ciainiah Suap's inmediate contral over the
econonic administration of the Japanese Government. However, basio
economic policies in Japan can stiil be powerfully influenoec by the
U. . covernment if it clearly fulfills its anounced intention of
directly and continually relating the anount of . S. aid to the caliber
of Ja,anese eco..onic performance.
:ffectiveness of this policy woula, I believe, be enhanced if the
nited tates simultareously announced its intantion to pay to the
Japanese uovernment, be i nin in the fiscal year 1950, the dollar quive
lent of all yen costs incurred o that Governmant in meeting the needs of
thhe occupatic. forces - less a suita le allowance for capital installe
tions oi pemanent value to the Japanese. The introduction of this pay
as-you-go arran ement would not affect the total amount of funds to be
repueste of the voruss for Japa: in FY 1950, since the appropriation
for Ja anese import procura ent could be reduced by the amount of
collars made ava la le to Japan to cover occupation costs. Howover, the
net aount of . . aid bein: furnished to Japan wo.ld be made more cloar
ooth to the Japanese and to ourselves than it is at present, and, a
result, execution of a policy relatinn: the anount of that aid to Japen'
econonic perfor ance could be more easily erfected and more generally
understood. L. particular, the Japanese would no longer be ble to
depreciate the significance of U. s. aid by indulging in loose allega-
tions concernin: the neavy conter-vailin, vurden of occupation coste.
Since payment for Japan on & current basis of the dollar equive-
lent of yon costs incurred by the Japanese overnment in support of the
occupation would roduce Japan's dollar dericit, this proposed poliey
would also have the effect of reducing future appropriation requests for
aid to Japan, as distinct fron appropriation requests to weet ocoupation
cost payments. This would have veneficial diplomatic consequences, since
the snaller appropriation requests for Japanese aid would arouse less
Far Lastern antagnniam towards the United states and Japan.
I am aware that this pay-as-you-go arrangement, although followed
in Austria and Korea, is not in eifect in Germany, it does not seem to
me, however, that the terman and Japanese situations are necessarily
comparaole
S. CHUT

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.95)
SECRET
3
of SCAP's undivided executive responsibility in Japan, and of the re
vised policy to be followed towards Japan during the pre-tresty peried
under the terms of the above-mentioned NSC poliey paper.
I would appreciate hearing from you concerning these propesale at
your earliest convenience, so that appropriate officials of the State
and Aray Departmants may consult concerning them. I hope that it mill
be possible for the State and Arny Departments to reach agreement on
these proposals in the near future, as the epartment of State would be
assisted in determining its position in re ard to future Japanese appre
priation requcsts by knowledge of the course to be pursued with respeet
to these proposals.
Yours sincerely,
Charles. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
rig-
CE:HOwen:mw
O. M.llaator.
OFO-
FE-
NA-
Tu. Knapp
Benninghsf
Me.allion
SECRET
OE- Th. whitmar

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.97)
TOP SECRET
~eptember 17, 1948
Dear Royall:
Since our meeting on Tuesday afternoon I have been giving
careful consideration to the points made by you in conneotion with
the modifications of the levels of industry set out in the Johnston
894.50/9-1748
Committee Heport which were proposed in my letter to you of September
lOth/ Since Mr. lHoffman, who was Chairman of the Sub-committee of the
Johnston Committee which drafted the section of the heport dealing
with the reparations problem, could not be present at our Tuesday
meeting, I have had my representatives consult with him and I have
taken his observations into account.
As you mow, the Johnston Committee was in Japan only briefly and
although its ieport on the matter of reparations is helpful, I feel
8
that due to the technical intricacy of the subject and the short time
which the Conmittee had to devote to it its conclusions should not
necessarily be regarded as more sound or precise than those of the
Uverseas Coneultants, Inc., or than other studies made by the Japanese
iovernment and sCAP. After consideration of all of these studies and
the points advanced by the offices of the Government interested in
this problem, I have concluded that the level of 5 million tons annual
capacity for steel which I recommended in my previous letter to you is
not to be regarded as inconsistent with the philosophy of the Johnston
Committee's Report. At the same time I feel that this level is
economically and politically more defensible in our negotiations with
friendly Far Lastern Commission countries.
Although I proposed in my lotter of September lOth the rotention
of a 400,000 tons annual steel shipbuilding capacity, whiah corresponds
as you know with the recommendations made by the OCI, I feal that no
serious additional difficulty would be involved if we propose in our
initial discussions with the friendly FEC countries that the retention
level be 500,000 metric tons. This levol accords with the recommende-
tion made by SCAP and represents an effort to meet your desire to have
our levels approach as closely as possible the Johnston Committee's
recommended levels in our initial approach to the FEC countries. I
feel for reasons which we have already disoussed that the above reten-
tion levels, although somewhat lower than those reoommended by the
50
Johnston
911
The lonorable
Secretary of the Department of the  rmy,
HashingtonD.
TOP SECRET

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
-2
Johnston Committee, represent capacity adequate to meet Japanese
production needs during the foreseeable future. At the seme time
I am convineed that any higher retention levels would produse
political reperoussions in the FEC countries which might well render
acceptance of our proposal as a whole impossible.
I agree with you that the machinery and equipment actually put
into operation by SCAP or which he may need for the purposes of the
occupation should not be removed merely because it falls within the
general definition of primary war facilities Therefore, I have
amended our proposal regarding primary war facilities so as to emable
3CAP to retain such facilities already put into operation and to
permit SCAr a period of 30 days after receipt of his directive to
designate additional facilities falling in this category which he may
deem essential for the purposes of the occupation. This amendment would
also require Schp to make substitution so far as practicable for any
such facilities thus retained out of siwilar facilities eisting in
Japan which would not otherwise be removed. This provision has been
incorporated in a revised version of the State Department's proposal for
the reparations paragraph in the NSC paper on Japan. The revised proposel
is attached.
The amendment set out above is as far as I can go in modifying
the principle that all primary war facilities in Japan should be made
available for reparations claim. I consider that this position cannot
be further modified because firstly, the co mitments of the U. S.
Government contd ned in the FEC Lasic Post Surrender Policy and other
decisions of the Far lastern co mission are such as to leave no real
loophole, legally, on this matter. Secondly, I am convinced that any
limitation of the principle that all primary war plants should be removed
fron Japan, other than that set forth above, would be regarded by the
Far Lastern conmission countries as a reversal of previous American
policy regarding Japan's demilitarisation. As you know, these arguments
have already bcen used by FiC countries, both in the FEC and in United
Nations' organs, to justify denial of most favored nation treatment to
Japan in trade relations and opposing admission of Japanese businesmen
into their countries. This attitude can, I fear, do far greater harm to
that expansion of Japanese trade, upon which Japanese self-support so
vitally depends, than the remova of the machine tools and primarywar
facilities in question as reparations.
I am anxious to insure as far as practicable that there will be
no dismantling of facilities designated as reparations which will not
be accepted by the claimant countries and actually removed from Japan.
I therefore suggost that the claimant countries should be required to
entor
TOP SECRET

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.93)
TOP SECRET
eoumtry fall to remeve facilitiss an sekedele, soap should be
empewered to revise er suspend sshedules fer dismentling and deliveny
to deskside of facilities previously allecated to thst esmtry. à
provisiom te this effest will be found in the enslesare.
I have dwelt on the questien of revisiem of the Jehnetemr Gemmn
resemmendat iens besause it is my underatanding that at our meeting yon
withdrew your objoctien to points the through six of my letter of
September l0th. I am submitting to the NSc the atteebed revised reeem
of the fast that the amended State Department pesisiem as set ost im
the attachment and in ay above cenelusions en levels dees met fully
ascord with the views you have expressed. I hepe, however, thak is
the interest of the prompt and final dispesition of this preblem whish
we all desire, you will be able to accept this peaitien.
Faithfully yours,
A true copy of
the signed orig-
Attachment
0:PFClaxton:br
OE:R./Barnett:br
Sept. 17, 1948
S/S
CEP 17 1948
TOP SECRET

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
JAPANESE REPARATIONS
1. The United States should rescind the Japanese reparations
interim directive (part A of JCS Directive No. 75) on advanoe transfers
except tiat part A of Directive No. 75 should remain in effect with respeet
to allocations of assets which have already been prosessed under that
directive. After prior diplanatic discussion with friendly FEC
nations the United States should suimit the following proposals on
Japanese reparations to the Far astern Comission, unless much extremely
strong opposition is encountered in t he diplamatic discusl ons as to
indicate the need for review or withdrawal of the proposals.
2. The aforamentioned nited States proposals should be that:
(a) Japanese external assets located within the juriediotion
of Allied nations at the time of the Japanese surrander should be retd ned
by such nations and their value credited to reparations;
(b) SCAP ahould be directed to detarmine, announce and make
available for reparations claims, categories and quantities of
industrial facilities and equ ipment which are in excess of the levels
finally agreed to iy the State and Army Departments. Industrial
facilities and equipment to be determined available for reparations claims
should not include buildings. ScaP may, if necessary, exercise
a thority granted hiu by the Fx in Fii 084/21 to retain particuler
plants declared available for reparations. However, all maahinery and
equipment (including thermal power units) in primary war facilities
2
(aray and navy arsenals, privately-owmed munitions plants and airoraft
plants) should e made available for reparations claim, excepting that
such of this machinery and equipment as may, within 30 days after his
receipt of a directive on this subject, have been designated by
CAP as required for the purposes of the occupation, may be retai ned
within Japan and SCAP should furnish wherever practicable in the
light of occupation req irements replacements as closely similar as
can be provided from the general inventory of Japanese industrial
facilities which otherwise would be retained in Japan. It is the view
of this Government that this provision snould be deemed the final
application of paragraph 10 of Fc 084/21 so far as it applies
to primary war facilities. The United States Government
TOP SECRET

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.91)
TOP SECRET
ater his resedpt ef a direstive en this subjest, the fesdlitles e
equipmest which weuld be made avatlable fer reparatlens eleimes
(a) acap ahould be direeted to resedve repesatiame alatme frem
Far Fastera Commission coumtries within a reasenable perieds
(d) Allesations of avadlable and alained reparatlame should be
as berein stated. In making suah allesations, censideretien sheuld be
given by sCAp to items already delivered purauant to the U.S. advense
tranafers direotive (JCs Directive No. 75))
(e) Astual allesatiens and deliveries should be made by scAP
as seen as pessdble after issuamee of the direetive embedying thds
pesitien in erder that reciplent matiens may have the benedis of
facilitées and equipment as soem as pessible and in erder that reperatsone
(f) Claiment countries should be rega ired te emter inte
agreements with sCAp establishing specifie sehedales fer the resovd
remeve facilities on sohedale, Scap shall be empewered te revise er
previously allecated that country.
3. Is, after reasonable consideratien in the Far Eastern Cemmissien,
this pesition cannet be agreed upon in the Far Eastern Cemmiesien, the
United states should consider the desirability of isssing a mailateral
direetive to SCAP.
can approve the following schedule of pereentage shares. The United
States Goverment fer its own part should held 18 ef ite 23% shere of
industrial facilities fer redistributien smong these Far Fasterm
countries whieh appreve the schedule and which desire ineremeats to
The United States Government should allew & peried net to emseed eme
month fer negotiatien among countries wishing to participate in the
redistributien of this 1ss, in which these countries cam seek a mstually
acesptable
TOP SECRET

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.83)
TOP SECRET
seseptable redistribetdon ef thas share. Is me agreemens se
wiskdn thie poriod, the maid las for retlatadhatden should be ad
hobelow.
Australla
Cemeda
Chima
Fremee
22
Indsa
Netherlands
Now Zoaland
Philippinee
USSR
United Kingdem
United ststes
23
TOP SECRET

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.94)
Letter
(cm
FE
ENA)
Huo
Arapn
SEP 17 194
TOP SECRET
pe/R
BB
Bureau
0
9-1748
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Dear Bill,
AUG 2 0 1952
1 think that you will be interested in the enelosed elippimgsr stc
from the New York Times of September 8, in case it has not alsemegent of State
come to your attention. It contains an artiele by a Tokyo erre-
spondent under headline of "Japanese Exports Get a ries Floer."
Since the latest information received by this Department is net
sufficient to indicate whether or not this report is exact, would
you be good enough to let me hear from you in that regard?
if this report is correct, the steps which it indicates as
having been taken in the theater, particularly with respeet to the
Files
Central
This Document Must Be Roturned To
establishment of a system representing, in effect, a multiple rate
system, are in serious conflict not only with the recemmendations
of the Youny Hission Report but also with the poliey approved in
NAC Action No. 263 of June 28, to whioh I referred in my letter of
June 30 to Ceneral Hoce. Such steps are also incompatible with
those outlined in the proposed reply to General MasArthur's cable
of une 29, which was enclosed in my letter of July 1h. The latter
was also addressed to General Noce during your absence from Washing
ton at that time.
In regard to the proposed cable of July lh, which was mentioned
but not discussed in detail at the neeting in your offiee on July 28
of representatives of the interested :epartments and the members of
the Young Mission, I am informed that it continues to represent the
views of the Departments of the Treasury and Commeree and of interested
officials of the Federal reserve Board, as well as of the Department
of State. These views are that the Young ission's Report, together
with its supplementary memorandum of ugust 16, substantially exhaust
the possibility of further analysis of the problem on the basis of
information here, also that it is difficult to see how additional
up-to-date and detailed statistical information now requested from the
theater
The "onorable
Willim li. Draper, Jr.,
nder Secretary of the Army.
TOP SECRET FILE
SFP17 1952
FILED
Rev
Cat
TOP SECRET

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECRET
- 2 -
theater by your Department could be determining insofar as a desisien
on the principles involved is concerned. It is thus believed that
continuing requests for the latest subsidiary data from the theater
and review thereof in Washington would result only in umprofitable
further delay in mstion relative to the points amalysed in the prepesed
cable above referred to. In the meantime, the target date of Ceteber 1 
proposed in the Young Wission report is already prestically upon us.
I should also mention that there is increasing apprehensien in the
Department of State and, : am told, likewise in the Treasury Department,
the epartment of Conmerce, and the Federal Heserve Board, regarting
the apparent lack of progress in the matter of implementing comprehensively
the National Advisory Council action of June 28 which, as yeu kmew, 1s
in line with the recommendations of the Young ission report, alse
regarding the delay in acquainting General MacArthur fully with the
views contained in the proposed cable of July lu to him in ansmer to
the points which he raised in his cable of June 29.
It would be helpful if you would advise me as to the Jepartment
of the Army's view of astion which should be taken to exeeute the
policy approved in NAC action No. 263 of Jume 28. The reeemmendstiens
of the De artments of State and Treasury as to the appropriate action
were set forth in the proposed cable of July 1, with whish the
eprtment of :ommerce and the Federal Reserve Board coneurred. It is
my w:derstanding that you think that some features of the pregram out-
lined in that cable are inappropriate in the circustances. However,
it appears that appropriate action should be taken without further delay
to implement the NAc policy in a practical manner and i would appre-
ciate your views in this regard.
Sincerely yours,
Charles E. Saltman
Assistant Secrstary
.ttachment.
A true comy ef
the signed orig-
O:CCHilliardseg
inal. E
9/16/48
Concurred in by: FE - Mr. Butterworth
NA - Mr. Allison
OFD - Mr. Knapp
OE - Mr. McDiarmid
Treasury - Mr. Lipsman
Commerce - Mr. Lee
Federal Reserve - Mr. Young
TOP SECRET

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.96)
TO
 NA - Mr. Allison
DATE: Sept. 23, 1948
FROM : NA - Mr. Fearey
sUBJEcT: Attached Note.
Mrs. Kallis sent over the initial draft of this
note day before yesterday, attached at bottom of file,
for preliminary comment.  It seemed a little over
sentimental and gushy without really being of help,
so I suggested over the phone what now appears on the
blue. The idea is to postpone the substantive reply
rather than to offer comforting, unfortunately empty
assurances.
On seeing it in print, and on noting the friendly
tone of the Philippines note, I wonder if it would be
394.50/5-2
a good idea to add the following as a new third para-
graph:
"It is moet gratifying to note that the repara-
tions facilities thus far received by the Philippines
from Japan have been of assistance in the rehabilita-
tion of Philippine economy."
The only danger is that the sentence might be
interpreted to mean that we had had doubts that they
iN
would be of assistance.
4
8
We might also add something about being fully
conscious of the Philippines urgent need for additional
reparations facilities, but I'm afraid that might be
quoted back at us after we announce our new reparations
C
S
proposals.
M
894.50
NA:RAFearey:lt
Ce:
6
2
3
h
8

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFIDENTIAL
894.50/9-2948
September 29, 1948
MEMORANDUM FOR THE U. S. MEBER
ON THE FAR EASTERN COLMISSION
Subject: The Statement of the L. S. Momber of the FEC
Hegarding Soviet Members Proposals on "Level of
Economic Life in Japans Policy Toward Japanese
Industry."
In conmection with the statement made by the Soviet Member at
the last meeting regarding preposals on the level of econemis life in
Japan, the following statement is provided fer your use at your
discretion. Yo: will nete that certain questions are set out in this
statement. It is the fealing of the Governwent that the United States
should not teke a leading position in the disc suion of thie smbjest.
Therefore, it is believed prererable to defer ssking these questiens
until it is soon whether some other representative may ask them. D
none does, ben the eations snould ue put at your disoretion.
"My Covernment notas witn intarest the statenant made by the
G
Soviet member concerning FFC: 242/32. xy Government has pedated repeetedly
S
to the mutually tenaficial effects upan the eoononic rehabilitatien 
the Far Eestern countries which may e expected frem a develepmemt of
Japanese peaceful industry and enlargement of Japan's foreigm ecenemie
ties. On January 21 of this year I stated to the Coamission that the
U. 3. Government expected to take positive measures to bring abeut thet
objective. My Government welcomes any indication that other member
countries of the Far Fastern Cormission have & similar interest in
realising the potential advantages to all member countries which may be
expected from the free and healthy development of Japanese trade and
preduction fer peaceful purpeses.
h
"There are, however, a number of questiens whiok have been
prospted by this statement.
"A distinetion was dramm by the seviet member betmese "pesse
5
ful Japanese indastry" and "Japanese war industry." It weald be
2
appresisted
13
CONFIDENTIAL
3231

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2
appreciated if the Soviet member could clarify the meaning of theee
two expressions.
"The Soviet nember has referred in his statement to the need
for establishing 'controls' in his proposed polioy decision to
prohibit the revival and creation of Japanese war industry. Does the
reference to 'controls' imply the eatablishment of some mmehinery
for this purpose during the period of the occupatien, and if se would
not such controls conflict with the terms of raference of the Par
Eastern Commission, the Allied Council for Japan, and the role of the
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in the regime of contrel in
Japan?
"The Soviet member has referred to 'those powers most interested
in prevanting a new Japanese aggression.' oes this phese deseribe
the present membership of the Far Eastern Comission, or are fewer er
more countries than those now members of the Far Eastern Commission
referred to?"
Charlos E. Saltsman
Assistant Secretary
CFD: ( Barnett:beb;br 9 29/48
the sigped orig-
:1 P/alaxton:hjh;br 9/29/48
inal
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.94)
DRAFT
THE STAEEMENT OF THE U.S. MEMREP OF THE FFC REGARDING SOVIET
MEMRERS PROPOSALS ON "LEVEL OF CONOMIC LIFE IN JAPAN:
POI.ICY TOWARD JAPANESE INDUSTRY"
My Government notes with interest the statement made by the Soviet
member corcerning FEC 242/32.
There are,a number of questions o which have been prompted by
this statement.
A distinction was drawn by the Soviet member between "peaceful
it u be 
Japanese industry" and " Jap anese war industry." Can the Soie momber
provide dofinitione of thoso torms?
The Soviet member has referred in his statement to the need for
establishing the controleer the proposed decision to prohibit the
へ
revival and creation of Japanese war industry. Does the reference to
controls imply the establishment of some machinery for this purpose
during the period of the occupation, and if so how would such controls
affect the terms of reference of the Far Eastern Commission, the Allied
Council for Japan, and the role of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers in the regime of control in Japan?
The Soviet member has referred to "those powers most interested in
preventing a new Japanese aggressior. Dues this phase describe the
present membership of the Far Eastern Conmission, or are fewer or more
countries than t ose now members of the Far Eastern Cormission referred to?
My Government repeatedly has pointedito the mutually beneficial
effects upon the economic rehabilitation of the Far Eastern countries
which may be expected from a development of Japanese peaceful industry
antangemeni
Joaiogn
and rstorationOof ecohomic ties.h Japan. On January 21 of this
year I stated to the Commission that the U.S. Government expected to take
uslconea
positive measures to bring about that objective. My Government ds
any indication that other member countries of the Far Eastern Commission
to mebe contien
are moming a similar interest in the potential advantages which may be
expected from the free and healthy development of  Japanese trend and
production for peaceful purposes.
OFD:RWBarnett:bcb
9/29/48
323

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.87)
SEASNEER CF TB SOVIET BBIEGASIGN COERNING BG-242/32
*YEVEL GF BOGNGNNS LIFE E JAPAN: POLIGY TOEANS JAPAIBS IBBENE
The questien of the level of iadustrial develepesat fer Japen is eme
es the mest iapertent questions requiring settlemsst. The detesmisstlen
of the level fer the develepasst of Japasese industry will predetesmine
the future eoomemée develepment of Japan.
Esever, wille eensideriag tale questien it is nossseary to mdesstand
elearly shes intustry is to be develeped. Industry may work to meet the
peeceful requiremeste ef the commtry. But it is alse kmemm that iatustry
may werk for the purpese ef military preparatien, as was the ease earlier
1a Japom.
Therefere, trem the very beginming it is nesesepry to elarity thds
questiem and then to deterzine eme's attitude tovards eme er amethee
prepesal esneeraing the lovel of the future industrial eapeeity of Japan.
Besides, it should be remembered that Japan will have te satiafy legitimate
elaime fer reparatioms on the part of those states whieh suffered frem
Japasese aggsessien.
The Seviet Goverament does not comsider it reasomable te require
linitatioms of the lovel of the develepesat of Japan's peaseful intustry
fer the future. Susk a requirement could find mo justifieatiem whatsesver.
It weuld meet meither the intereste of the Japanese peeple, mer the interests
of other eomtries, and, first of all, of Lsiatie coumtries whieh are in
noed of eeemende ties with Japan.
3231

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.90)
- 2.
A Migh Lovel af industrtal develepment of Japar will not in iteelf
be dangerenme if Japan is met parmitted to revive har mar industry and
militariam. Japamese industry in the past merred as an eccnemio basis
for Japamese aggresaiom, not because it bad reached a comparatively high
level of development, but because of the fact that ite development hed beem
sabordimated to the needs of war.
Japanese militaristio droles, acting contrary to the vital intarests
of the Japanese people, direeted the developeent of the country's industry
as woll as of the econcay as a whole in suat a may that it was adapted to
meet the moede af the arey and navy, 1.e., it worked far the preparatiom
or.
Suah a situmtion suited the latarests of aggreesive Japansse droles,
whisk set themeelves the purpose of analaving other countries and pooples
La allianee with Mitlerite Germany. Howwver, it goss without saying that
this should not be repeated, sinoe silitaristio Japan was defeated and
there is an oppartunity to direet the development of Japan along demoaratio
and pesceloving limes. ow measures must be taken to prevent the rovival
of Japaneme militariem and the oonversion of Japan once agein into a hotbed
ofwar danger.
In arder to ensure the sottlement of this problem, the development ar
Japanees industry ahould bave as ite sole purpoee the satisfaction of the
peaneful peeds of the Japarese people. If me proceed from tais, the only
correot basis, the unfoundednses of demands to imit the developeont of
peacoful Japaneer industry will become eelf-evident.

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.94)
-3 -
The development of peaceful Japanese industry to the leve1 af 1930-34
 to a higher level will eaatribute to the improvement of the physical
mell-being of Japan's population, whiah contimues to suffer serious after-
effeets of the ariminal and adventurous palicy of the Japanese militarists.
Suah a development of industry will broaden ths possibilities of Japanese
expart, will eontributo to the strengthening of Japan's economic independenes
and will lighten the dependence of Japan's netional economy on external
factore whioh are alien to her interests.
Besidos this, toe export of Japanese induatrial gode would cantribute
to the setisfaction of appropriate needs, for example, of certain Asiatic
countries, and would this serve for Japan as a basis for the import of raw
materials needed by ber, and of other goods necessary to matisfy the peaceful
needs of the Japanese people.
It follows from the above that the objootive of the Allied Powers should
be, not limitatian of the developmont of Japan's peaceful industry, but
prevention of the development in Jayan of war industry, as well as prevention
of the areation of conditions under whioh Japanese militarism and Japanese
ggression can rovive.
aturally, the question arises to how this objective could possibly be
attaimeu. The Soviet Government considera that this objective can be attalned
1f an appropriate control is estatlished in Jajan for a certain period in
order to prevent the reviial or areation of Jajanese war industry. All
peace-loving nations should be interested in the establishment of suoh a
oontrol.

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.95)
- 4 -
Sush a control, establiabed for a period of meveral years and exercised
by the pesere mest interested in preventing a new Japanese aggressien, should
be provided for in the Peace Treaty with Japan, the preparetion and conclmsion
of which is long overdue.
In assordanee with the position which I have stated, I propose on the
instructions of the Soviet Government that the following decisions be adopted.
1. No limitations should be imposed upon the restoration and
developeent of peaeeful Japanese industry which seeks to matisfy the
neede of the Japanese population, nor upon the development of expart
in ascardance with the needs of Japan's peaceful ccomomy.
2. The revival and croation of Japanese mar industry ahould be
prokibited and there ahould be establisbed, for a period of several
years, a control over the fulfillment of this decision, to be exercised
by those Powers most interested in preventing a new Japanese aggression.
aa-12.

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.91)
ACTION
osigned
File
AS
Shenghal, Chime
No. 124
Ostober 4, 1948
RESTRIOTED
SUBJECT:
Report of a Conversation Between Professor
Chang Hsi-je or Taimghes Univarmity. Peiping.
and Nr. Johm . Cabot, Amerioan Consul General,
Shanghai, on September 26, 1948.
The Honorable
J. Leighton Stuart,
Amarioan Ambassador,
Nanking.
3
5
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to trenemit herewith a repart of
e oanversatlon whloh I had on Soptember 26th with
Professor Chang Hsi-je, & leading professor of Tainghae
0-448
University, with respeot to our aid to Japam and to
China.
Respeotfully your,
YE3
John M. Cabot
Amerioan Consul General
0
Eaplosure:
11
Hemorandum or Gonversatloa.
vopy and heetograph to
Department of State.
ome

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.93)
Eaclosure to Despatoh 124
Ootober 4, 1948, from
REBTRIOTED
Shanghai to Nanking
MEORANDUN OF CONVERSATION BETWEKN PROFELSOR CHANO
HBI-JE OF TSINCHHUA UNIVERSITY, PKIPINO, AND MR. JOHN
M. CABOT, AMKRICAN CONGUL GENIRAL. SHANOHAI, ON
85PTMBER 26, 1948
By oourteey of Mr. Jumes Burke, the Pei ping oor-
respondet or Tim-ii , I hd a lon conversatlon on
September 26. 194c. with irofeszor Chang Es1-Je,
Professor of rolitival tudles, I bolleve, at Tminghua
university, and one of the outatandins latalleetuals
leading the campaign against Amerioan aid to Japan.
Professor hung knew in advanoe ths purpose of my visit
and we therefore wasted ittle time in preliminary com-
versation.
I mald that i understood rofessor Chang took s
loading part in opposing our program of aid to Japan,
and mald that I would be vary interested In having his
viows. bearing in mind the following oiroumstaoes:
(1) The United tates wes adeittedly
helping Japen to get on her feet sconomleally.
This ws in striot aocord wi th the 'otsdam
Deolaration, whioh speolflcally anvimuged
that Japan should heve a self-suatalaing
oonomy.
(2) The United States was nevertheless
spending s great deel of money to finanee
Jupan's trade dericit and keep her people
from starvation. Obviously  were not pre-
pared to continue this Indefinitely, nor
would that be feasible in any oase.
(3) it was oompletely antrue, as had
orten been alleged in China, thet we were
helping Japan to rearm. Japan had been, and
remeined. completely disarmed.
(4) we were frankly oonoerned at the
Communlst mensoe, and any military preparations
in Japan whioh had any besls in faot would be
explalned by this consideration.
Prorebnor  lung said thet when  oircumsoribed his
corments in this manner it made his answer somswhat more
di rfioult. le amphaai zed the long hlstory of Uino-Japanese
relations ano the many Jepanese aggresslons against China.
Ms sald thot many Chinese have understandably bitter mem-
orles or what Jupan had done. and that they did not wish
anything like that repeated. He emphaslzed that the
Chineme hed thought that, at the snd of the war at least.
Chine. d th its Immense population and rseourees, would
beome the predominant nation in the Far Best. Ohine's
diffioulties hed prevented her from attaining this posi-
tion, and now hins, beset with difficulties, sew her old
rival
RARRICEED

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.90)
Rno. to Deap. 124 10/4/48
from Shanghal to Nanking
-2-
REBTRICTED
rival oomlng baok with the help of the United States, while
Chine was embroiled in a dezperate aivil war.
I salu thet wese were reully twp seprrate problems.
ne had a traditional friandanip for chine, end we would
greatly prefer to see hiua, ruther then jnpen, the pre-
dominant nation in the Far est. ie were doing what we
could to help Clne. Unfortunately there were ciroum
tances in whine wilah we could not oontrol, and as
Proressor -hons had polnted out, it was on this acooust
that Chine had not aonleved the goel whlon ahe might well
have expeoted.
Professor hang immedintely sald that that me the
real mad of the diffioulty; ths . uestion of dmerioam ald
to Japan was really secondary, und antl-imerioan sentimemt,
La his opialon, superriolal. He said thet some or his
friende would not egree with the latter. and thnt re was
arrald that anti- merioun senti be consolluated
by a uontlnuanoe  present treads. wuat cninese publlo
oplalon really objeoted to was not our aid to Japan, but
rather our uid to te vuomintang Government. Thet Oovern-
mont was so rotten, corrupt, and inerfiolent that it was
a stenoh in the nostrils of the chinese intelleotuals.
The Chinese masues oculd never be bludgeoned Into acoept-
Ing ite rlc again. By our aid we were kseping it in
power cver themnd ve vere. orover, prolongi the
al vil nar. He udded that ws should apprsoiate that
history cannot be senled and that we should flad our-
selves unatle to prop e ruonintan Jovernment no
matter how hard we tried.
I said that i the Uhinese situation were to be
taken us a striotly hineee mtter we would, of gourse,
he ve sbnteined from interferenoe. Novertheless, rightly
or wrongly, we belleved tiat a Communist oonsplraey ex-
1sted to doninate tho world. When we found Chinese
Communlets in rebellion against the legitimete government
of China we natur lly sasumed tnat it waa part of the
worldwide pattern whioh we had obeerved, even though we
reoognized thnt it had looal peoulierities. fur feare
had beer. o e by the recont hinese Comounlst en-
doree ent o? the onlnfor attack on the Yugoslav
vovernsent. ny Americuns did not appreoiete the in-
tricecies of he hinese sltuntion, and qulte frenkly
reasoned thnt sines (1, we were friende of Chine. ()
nine wes righting ths omuaiste, and (3) we were
larmed t the worldwide Comoanlst conspireoy, ite
olearly we ahould elp hins fight the Communists.
asred whether fou r hang thought tre thinese
Jommunlate vere ore hinese or more Jommunist.
ro   tht ly  t h
Jommuniete oxpeoted to run the oountry they wouldv
10

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.86)
Eno. to Doap. 124 10/4/48
from Shanghai to Nanking
-3-
RESTRICTED
to be more Chinese tren Communist. He intimated that
Oommualmm was like meny movements or the past whioh had
come from outside ine nd hin hina hai radually
abeorbed. It  ist tike some ti, but the end was sertain.
Profeauor rang t en went on o polnt out that no
did not think thet the cninese Comounists poul? afford
to be too nntagoniatlo toward the United Stutes onoe they
cume to power. china would be In dessernte need of
American trace,  nphtnery, sapital, and "kotw-how". No
other couatry in tne rld, inoluding Russie, oould supply
them. tndar the cirousstenoes he falt that the Chinese
Communists would be only too glod to move toward better
relatlons with us if we were responsive..
I pointod ot tit I realized the lo ic ci at ho
sald, but that we already had had one experience whion
Bave us pause. y last post had been lu lusoulavla. We
had poured hundrsds of millioas or dollurs of Ulaius. sup-
plles into Yugoslavle lznodiutely arter the war without
seekin any advantage of tho Yugosluvn, and we had bean
prepared tt flay uall with them is they would with us.
Yugoslavia's need for trade, meohinery, capital, and
"know-how" were just as groat as China's, partloulerly
in conneotlon in t five-year flan. Nevertheloss
Yugoslavi'a Iren had engaged, even ile Unrra supplle
wers cing in, in st vituperative atteoke oa everything
the Uu. ed ta' a ntood or and Yugoalavia had adopted the
most "atasoniat'n st'i ude tovard the Uaited Statos. It
was troe wut Tu oal via d ow hnd u guuebble with the
Cominrorm, iat  didt ihink tnis wns a vory enoouraging
example.
e oiverin lon en turned baon to tha uostlon of
tolnese Government.Whilerofesaor cheng
sai reallzed he basls on whion we were giving ald to
 ovornnnt ve eoid e legiti a oould only
amphas!ze that,' the firet plioe, it whe  ins to and
in Jlaneter an in the seoond, it was i t abitter
s lene Celln toward Anerlon or a Lon time.
veratlonpeslonan
ornmtbe wall wajor
thelti d ort roeson fr our polloles.
o sn ne she ll'tl new light on t a uestlon of United
   ad to uin, he onred and unde
renyh pointa mhioh uve bern ade
arore by le all nown lecere. Hi cut ignirioant
 tet erh the ne that e itlon galast
ancor ast the
Jonn
Jh: at

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.97)
Reply drafted
OCT 251948
10/22/48
DC
SGK
Albert T. Kanzaki
505 West 142 St.
Nev York 31, N.Y.
File De/R
Oct. 12, 1948
U.s. Dept. of state
Office of Fconomic ecurity Policy
Division of Japanese end Korean Economic Affairs
894.50/10-1248
Yashinston D.C.
Gentlemen:
I sh: ll apprecicte it very mucr. if you will send me the
inform: ti ns concerning the economy of Japan such as:
The rauley report.
he Clifford . trike report.
Any inform:tion concerning the li uication of the Ztibatsu.
Post-war and pre-v.r foreifn trade of Japan.
Post-war and pre-var inuustry of Japan.
Post-war and pre-war financial condition of Japan.
Future lanning of Japane: e industry and foreign trade.
Vill you please infori.. me where I can get further in-
formtion cnncerning above topic?
CS/MS
I need all these inforn: tion for my thesis leading to the
master's degree which I am working at Nev. York University
Graduate chool of Business Administration.
I shall appreciate your kindness very much.
Yours truly,
Albut T. Kamaki
Albert *. Kanzaki

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.96)
301
OCT 25194
EP
My dear Mr. Kanzak1:
The receipt 1s  oknowledged of your letter of
October 12, 1948 requesting inform tion concerning the
economy of Japen.
Coples of two public tions issued by the Depart-
894.50/10
ment of tate on this subject are enclosed. For further
informstion regardin the J penese economy I suggest
th t you write to certain oth r gencies of the Govern-
ment which mey be able to supply coples of their publiea-
tions or to inform you concerning their avallability at
libreries in New York.
"ith regard to the specifio subjeots mentioned in
your letter, your inquiry concerning the Strike report
should be directed to the Department of the Army, to
一
248
which this report was submitted. The Dep'rtment of the
"rmy may elso be eble to inform you concerning additional
material in which y u are interested. I suggest that
you ask then ebout the avallability et librarles in New
York of the "Summation of Non-Military Activities in
Japen" 1ssued monthly by the Supreme Commander for the
allied Powers. Th1s publioetion contains considerable
C
inform tion on Japanese industry, trade and finanoe.
S
The linited States Tariff Commission mey also be
S
eble to help you in seourin, infornstion on Japanese
M
industry nd trade.
S
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
OCT 25 1948 P.M.
894.
R. Burr Sm1th, Ch1ef
Reprations and Property Branch
Division of Economio Property Policy
9
Enclosures:
Pa ley Report
Activities of Fer Eestern Commission
Mr. Albert T. Kanzaki,
505 est 142 Street,
New York 31, New York
SGK
EP:3K111s:mcm 10/22/48

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.92)
SECRET
pele
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY
Y
WASHINGTON, D. C.
7ille
EAS
Honorable Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Dear Mr. Saltzman:
794912481
Your letter of 13 September 1943, on the subject of "Restoration
of Japan to Self-Support" has been given careful consideration by the
Department of the Army. While it is agreed that "Restoration of Japan
to Self-Support" is unquestionably a major objective of U. S. Foreign
Files
Central
Policy there are, it is believed, serious obstacles to achieving this
objective through the program outlined in the referenced letter.
Doeument Must Be Kuturued to
The program suggested by your letter proposes that full respon-
sibility for the operation of an approved Japanese economic recovery
program, including the combined objectives of Prevention of Disease and
Unrest and Economic Rehabilitation, be shifted from SCAP to the Japanese
Government. SCAP's responsibility would change from one of control of
the Japanese economy to one of inspection and report. Occupation costs
under the proposal would be put on a pay-as-you-go basis. A Japanese
Aid Program based on net dollar deficit less receipts from occupation
costs would be formilated in such a manner as to relate the amount of
aid to "the caliber of Japanese economic performance".
In comnenting on your proposals we have divided the principal points
under two headings, A Pay as You Go and B Shift of Responsibility to
the Japanese Government.
A. Pay as You Go: The State Department proposes the adoption
of a Pay-as-you-go policy in Japan so that (1) the net amount of U. S.
aid after deduction of occupation costs can be wade clear; (2) a policy
can be developed relating such net amount of U. S. aid to Japan's
economic performance under an approved Recovery Plan; (3) the Japanese
will not be able to "depreciate the significance of U. S. aid by
indulging in loose allegations concerning the heavy countervailing
burden of occupation costs"; (4) future appropriation requests for aid
3
to Japan, as distinct from requests to meet occupation costs, can be
reduced. This, State Department feels, would diminish the antagonism
f
felt by other Far Eastern countries toward our policy of rebuilding
Japan.
FILED
5
O
C/R
19
0
52
1
(1)
江
SECRET
C~+
02721

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
SEURET
Page 2
Occupation costs in Japan are estimated by the Japanese to
be approximately $333,000,000 per year, based on the assumption that
one-third of the Japanese national budget of approximately $1,000,000,000
is earmarked for costs of occupation.
1. Pay-as-you-go Ocoupation costs would be chargeable
to the Military Functions Budget of the Department of National
Defense, since Army, Navy and Air are all involved in the
occupation of Japan. The FY 1950 ceiling for Military
Functions has been set at $15,000,000,000. A reduction of
this sum by $333,000,000 (see above) involves the question
as to whether at this time such an amount should not rather
be programmed for primary military requirements.
2. Under the terms of the Armistice, Japan, an enemy
of the United States as distinct from a liberated country,
is responsible for occupation costs. A unilateral change in
this agreement prior to a peace treaty raises the problem of
probable Congressional objection. It is believed that there
would be much unfavorable Congressional reaction i a pay-as-
you-go policy is adopted in Japan at this time or i. the near
future.
3. Even though the participation of Russia, Great Britain
and France in the occupation of Japan is a minor matter, it
should be noted that they have refused to participate in the
pay-as-you-go procedure in Austria, and it is not believed that
they would join in a similar proposal for Japan. This opinion
is reinforced by the recent refusal of the British Commonwealth
Occupation Forces to pay for Japanese personal servants, despite
a SCAP directive to the contrary.
In light of the foregoing the Department of the Army does not
now concur with the pay-as-you-go proposal.
B. Shift of Responsibility to the Japanese Government: This
appears to be a matter of degree rather than of principle. Para. 15 of
NSC 13/2 setting forth a policy on economic recovery seems to be the
pertinent broad policy guidance. In approaching this problem the follow-
ing points have been raised in the Department of the Army.
1. GARIOA funds have been appropriated directly to the
Department of the Army for the purpose of preventing disease and
unrest prejudicial to the Occupation Forces and for initiating
industrial recovery. The Congress holds the Department of the
Army responeible for these erpenditures. As regards the GARIOA
appropriation which rests on U. S. legal responsibility under
International Law, there may arise a conflict between State
Department proposals which may envisage direct control of all

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3
U.S. aid in the hands of the Japanese Government, and the
practical problem of fulfilling our responsibility without
having direct control of sufficient funds to do the job.
2. The operation of OJEIRF (formulated pursuant to FEC
policy) and the loan arranged under this credit with the Export-
Import Bank and private banks have been made on the basis of
SCAP responsibility.
3. In the operation of the Natural Fibers Revolving
Fund (PL 820, 80th Congress) the Secretary of the Army is
designated as the responsible official.
4. There is a definite limitation to the power of the
economic club held over Japan so long as our occupation
forces remain there, and hence the U.S. is unable to divest
itself of responsibility for the prevention of disease and
unrest.
5. It does not appear that the Executive Branch of the
Government could take action to transfer full responsibility
for operations under the various appropriations and Govern-
ment actions indicated above, even if it desired to do so,
without prior consultation with and approval by the Congress.
It is agreed that it would be very desirable for appropriate officials
of the State and Army Departments to consult in the immediate future on
this matter of the shift of responsibility to the Japanese Government.
FOR THE UNDER SECRETARY OF THE ARMY:
LINCOLN
Colonel, USA
Assistant to the Under
Secretary of the Army

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.96)
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
is assigned to
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AIR MAIL
London, Engl
October 22, 1948.
No: 2109.
Subject: The Future Development of the Japanese Economy.
2xx's
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASTAN AFFAIRS
DCIR
240
DEPARTMENT
The Honorable
The Secretary of State
Washington.
Sir:
FE
I have the honor to transmit herewith five copies
of a pamphlet entitled, "The Future Development of the
738
Japanese Economy," published by His Majesty's Stationery
ITP
Office, London, for the Board of Trade.
894.50/10-2248
OFD
The booklet was written by Mr. H. A. Macrae,
EuR
formerly Commercial Minister at the British Embassy
OL1
in Tokyo, who went to Japan in 1947 on the invitation
UNA
of the British Government to make a survey of possible
trends in the future development of the Japanese economy.
Mr. Macrae foresees an increase in foreign invest-
ment in Japan's industrial enterprises and states that
some Japanese have suggested that countries claiming
reparations in the form of factory equipment might
find it to their advantage to have some of their
industrialists take over the operation of the factories
for a period of years, using Japanese labor and leaving
the equipment in place. This policy has also been
suggested for the public utilities in the interest of
efficiency as well as providing a source of profit
for foreign investors.
EEB 17 1949
BILED
Although the future of Japan's economy is bound
to be closely linked to the economy of the United States,
the British Commonwealth and other countries will also
benefit, in Mr. Macrae's opinion, since, as rehabilita-
tion progresses, Japan will again become a good market
for materials which British territories exported to
948  2 24
Japan in the past.
It/
1918 NOV1
A/AP
3
UNC LASSIFIED
AM 10
as
20
olas. nHeas

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
UNCLASSIFIED
Despatch No. 2109.
-2-
American Embassy,
October 22, 1948.
London.
It will be noted that the pamphlet is divided
into three parts:
I
Economic Conditions and Trends in Japan
in the Summer and Autumn of 1947;
II
The Future Development of the Japanese
Economy;
III Opportunities for British Trade.
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
BaniS D. Dall.
Basil D. Dahl
Commercial Attaché
1. The Future Development
of the Japanese Economy,
H. M. Stationery Office,
London. (Five copies).
BDDahl/jao
Original and hectograph to Dept.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
2109 0ct. 22,1948.
BOARD OF TRADE
THE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
OF THE JAPANESE ECONOMY
AND THE OPPORTUNITIES FOR
BRITISH TRADE WITH
J.AP.1N
LONDON: HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE
1948
NINEPENCE
NET

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
A FORECAST OF THE
FUTURE DEVELOPMENT OF
THE JAPANESE ECONOMY
AND THE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR BRITISH
TRADE WITH JAPAN
H. A. MACRAE, C.M.G., .B.E.
tormo Ministo (Commoctal) at He Vajesty Embasy.
NOTE
The writer of this paper was invited by
His Majesty's Government to visit Japan
during 1947, in order to make a careful
survey of the way in which Japan's
economie future is likely to develop.
with a view to secing what opportunities
are likely to exist for British trade with
Japan in the years following the resump-
tion of normal commercial intercourse.
The views expressed in the paper are
these of the a riter, and are nor necess-
arily thoseot His Majesty  Government.

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.85)
CONTENTS
PART I. EOONOAE CONDHION- AND TREND- IN JAPAN
Panagraphs
IN TIHL SU MAIER AND AE 11E AIN OE 1947
Agriculture
3-6
Forestry and River Cons reancy
7 - り
F-heries
10
11
Coal Mmine. Iron ael Steed. aer Lroetricity
12
19
Other Mhurg. and P moleun.
20
22
The Texnke ldustres
32
Resume of progress un undustriad rocovery
33
Raoboaes amd Rond Trateport
34
37
Merdhont Shopping
3s
41
Sol ed Fomcid Coditions
42
53
Foreign Trade
54
102
PART IH THI F FE DENHTOPNINT OE THHE JAPANE ECONONY
Progress so far aad measures still mecessary
1.3
05
Foreen trede credit- ate! forcign trade ditiiculties
66
69
Probable future developments:
Itereased us of matural resources.
71 - 72
Lrereased umportance of textile and medium and small
undustries
7.3
Expansion of stom of processing imported raw materials
for probreron of export good.
7+
Controd of import and export m.de after Peace Treaty
75
Itcrease in toteign investment in industrial unterprises
70
Tourist tratic
77
Importamee of shippioeg umdustry and food supplies
7879
Japanese coonomy linked to E nited States cronomy
S0
PART IH OPPOFTTNHHI- POR BRTFH TRADI
1 Vochandise Trad
Pre-War ud wrth Japan
S1
S2
Future mprts fron Japan
53
87
Future exports to Jpan
SS
93
1i Iua vable Trade
Banking. itsuranee. ete
94 15
Merehant shopping
96 98
lnvestumen- n Govermmment Loans, ete.
99

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
Part I
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND
TRENDS IN JAPAN IN THE SUMMER AND AUTUMN OF
1947
.IN JULY 1947 the Japanese Government, through the medium of special
supplements to the daily newspapers, gave wide publicity to a document entitled
"A Report on the actual State of the Japanese Economy," which had been pre-
pared by the Japanese Economic Stabilisation Board. The Report explained in
simple language the causes and the extent of the serious deterioration that had
taken place in economic conditions in Japan, and informed the Japanese people
that it was essential that they should co-operate fully with the Government in the
measures it was taking, or proposed to take, to restore the national economy, if
these measures were to be successful. In an introductory section it was explained
that the economic statistics available in Japan for the preparation of such a Report
were very inadequate in comparison with those available in any other civilized
country, but that the Government had decided that it was much more important
to act quickly and give the people an account of the economic state of the country,
based on the data available, "rather than to wait for the completion of perfect
statistics, when it might be too late. 'There was need for haste because (1) the
stocks of industrial and other materials that existed in the country when the War
came to an end were fast running low ; (2) repairs and replacements necessary to
maintain the national economy in a sound condition were being left undone;
(3) the national debt to foreign countries was steadily increasing."
2. Use has been made of the above Report (which is commonly referred to in
Japan as the Japanese "Economic White Paper") in preparing the short account,
contained in paragraphs 3 to 62 below, of economic conditions and trends in
certain sections of the Japanese economy in the summer and autumn of 1947.
Use has been made also of other official sources of information, especially the
series of reports and other documents compiled by the Economic and Scientific
and the Natural Resources Sections of General MacArthur's Headquarters, in
order to supplement and, where necessary, correct the information extracted from
the "Economic White Paper," and additional information has been obtained
from other reliable official and non-official sources. Paragraphs 3 to 62 below
have been written in order to indicate the amount of reconstruction and new
development necessary if the Japanese people are to regain a moderate standard
of living and if the Far Eastern Commission* policy of "the rehabilitation of a
self-supporting cconomy for Japan" is to be carried out, and also in order to
indicate what plans have been formed for reconstruction and new development
and what progress is being made in giving effect to these plans. It appears
possible that the process of reconstruction and new development may provide
opportunities for British trade with Japan, and this possibility is examined below,
in paragraphs 90 to 92 of Part III of this Paper.
AGRICULTURE
3. During the war years, when there was a shortage of farm workers owing
*The Far Eastern Commission, established in December, 1946, is composed of repre-
sentatives of Australia, Canada, China, France, India, The Netherlands, New Zealand,
Philippine Republic, United Kingdom, U.S.A., and U.S.S.R. Its task is to formulate the
policy, principles and standards by which Japan may fulfil its obligations under the terms
of the surrender and to advise the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
4

=== Page 367 === (confidence 1.00)
to the mobilisation' of large numbers of men for the armed forces, efforts were
increasingly concentrated on the cultivation of the staple food crops—rice, wheat,
and particularly potatoes—to the exclusion of other crops. The growing of green
crops for green manuring diminished. Farm produce customarily used before
the war for the feeding of livestock was increasingly used for human consump-
tion, and as at the same time there were no imports of feeding stuffs, the numbers
of livestock decreased. Compared with the average numbers maintained in the
best pre-war years, the numbers maintained in 1946 had decreased by the follow-
ing percentages :—Hogs, by 91 per cent ; poultry, by 62 per cent; milk cows, by
38 per cent ; horses, by 30 per cent; working oxen, by 15 per cent. The decrease
in livestock resulted in a decrease in the use of farmyard manure, and there was
also a progressive decrease in the application of chemical fertilisers, the quantities
applied in 1946 being only 920,000 tons of nitrates, 400,000 tons of phosphates,
and 110,000 tons of potash compounds, as compared with 1,900,000 tons of
nitrates, 1,920,000 tons of phosphates, and 250,000 tons of potash compounds
applied in 1937. The supply of farming implements and machines became pro-
gressively difficult, and the number of these now in use is only between 20 and
30 per cent of the number in use about 1940. It is difficult at present to maintain
even this small number, because of a shortage of fuel for the manufacture of
new implements and for repairs to those damaged or worn. As a result of all
these deficiencies, the fertility of the soil, except in the rice paddies, has decreased.
4. During the war years, also, there was a decrease in the acreage of cultivated
land, because considerable areas of farm land were taken over for military pur-
poses and for the building of factories, etc. These lands, however, have now
been restored to cultivation, and other areas of land have also been reclaimed for
crop growing, so that the total area of land already reclaimed for cultivation since
the end of 1945 now amounts to about 590,000 acres. The possibility of reclaim-
ing still more land for cultivation, and of improving existing farm lands, has been
investigated, during the past two years, by agricultural experts of the Natural
Resources Section of General MacArthur's Headquarters, with the result that
plans have been made, and are now in process of being carried out, for the
reclamation of an additional one million acres of land in Honshu, Shikoku, and
Kyushu, by 1950, and for the improvement of about 8,750,000 acres of existing
farm lands by better systems of irrigation, drainage, and flood control. Experts who
carried out a separate investigation in the Hokkaido reported on August 26th, 1947,
that approximately 2 million acres of land could be profitably reclaimed for
cultivation in that Island and could support about 100,000 farming families.
The possibility of adding to the acreage of pasture land and of increasing the
supply of fodder, in order to bring about an increase in the numbers of live stock
is also being investigated ; and measures have been taken to increase the imports
of chemical fertilisers and the production of these in Japan. An interesting
development in connection with the supply of chemical fertilisers has been the
issue of a directive, by General MacArthur's Headquarters, to the Japanese
Government regarding the mining of rock phosphate on Angaur Island in
the former Japanese Mandated Territory in the Pacific. The directive instructs
the Japanese Government to recruit and transport to the Island sufficient Japanese
personnel to mine the phosphate deposits on the Island and prepare the phosphate
for shipment to Japan, and on its arrival in Japan to convert it into superphosphates.
5. The shortage of farm labour that existed during the war years has now
been more than made good by the repatriation and demobilisation of large numbers
of men formerly in the Japanese armed forces, and this should have good effects
both in the better working of existing farm lands and in bringing additional areas
of land under cultivation.
6. A Land Reform Law, drafted in accordance with a directive from General
MacArthur's Headquarters, was promulgated by the Japanese Government on
5

=== Page 368 === (confidence 1.00)
October 21st, 1946. The purpose of the Law is to enable the majority of the
large number of Japanese farmers who at present pay high rents for their farms
to become actual owners of the land they cultivate, and to reduce the rentals to
be paid by such farmers as do not become owners. Good progress has been
made, and it is expected that these reforms will have been completed by the end
of 1948.
FORESTRY AND RIVER CONSERVANCY
7. Standing timber was cut in much larger quantities during the war years
than ever before, and much less replanting was done. This was particularly so
in privately-owned and community-owned forests. Over the whole country,
replanting decreased annually to such an extent that only about 171,500 acres
were reforested in 1946, whereas the average area reforested annually in the three
years 1939 to 1941 was 1.2 million acres. In many parts of the country there
has been serious soil erosion as a result, and also the annual growth of standing
timber is now about 81 million cubic feet less than the annual growth from 1926
to 1930. The forestry industry is seriously short of equipment and supplies.
Forest railways, tractors, trucks, and machinery now need replacement and repairs
which were not effected during the war, and there are shortages of saws, files,
motor engines, belting, wire ropes, gasoline, and lubricating oils.
8. During the war, and since, owing to shortages of labour and materials, there
has been insufficient maintenance and repair of river embankments. In the Spring
of 1947 when the snows melted, and again in July and August, when there
were very heavy rains in North-East Japan and in the Hokkaido, river banks
gave way under increased pressures of larger and faster-flowing volumes of water
from hillsides denuded of timber, and extensive flooding resulted. There was
extensive flooding again in September, when river embankments in the districts
north of Tokyo gave way as the result of typhoon rains. The Japanese Ministry
of Welfare reported at the end of September that since the spring of 1947, 1,002
persons had died, 1,616 persons had been injured, and 985 were missing, as the
result of floods in Japan, and that 440,000 houses, and 588,000 acres of farming
land, had been damaged or destroyed. Deforestation has had other bad effects,
in that the irregular flow of water from deforested hills has prevented the smooth
operation of hydro-electric installations.
9. Forestry experts of the Natural Resources Section recently completed a
survey of all forest areas in Japan, and with their assistance the Japanese authori-
ties have begun a reforestation programme designed to ensure the replanting of
10 million acres in the next five years. The survey showed that in about 14 per
cent of the forest areas no timber had ever been cut, because it was impossible to
remove the timber owing to the lack of roads. Road building was begun in 1946,
and 276 miles of forest roads were completed by the spring of 1947. These
roads give access to about 3 per cent of the forest areas hitherto unused, and
expert opinion is that access to about 75 per cent of the unused timber areas will
eventually be obtained if an extensive road-building programme, which it is at
present proposed should extend over ten years, is carried out.
FISHERIES
10. The Natural Resources Section of General MacArthur's Headquarters
produced in October 1947 a very detailed statistical report showing the annual
contributions made to the Japanese food supply by the various branches of the
Japanese fishing industry (coastal and inland, offshore, overseas and colonial
fisheries) during the years 1908 to 1946. The report contained the following
6

=== Page 369 === (confidence 1.00)
general observations :—The fishing industry is the main source of supply of
animal protein for the population of Japan, and also, before the war, provided
exports which earned considerable amounts of foreign exchange. When the
industry was at maximum production, during the years 1931 to 1938, about
363,000 fishing craft were annually in use, and about 1} million people were fully
or partly employed, annually, in fishing or in the processing of marine products.
The quantity of fish, shellfish, and edible seaweed produced by the industry
during these years averaged about 6 million metric tons per annum. The fishing
industry was thus of far greater importance in Japan than in most countries.
The report shows that during the years 1931 to 1938 (years for which com-
plete statistics for all branches of the industry are available) the average annual
quantities of fish produced by the various branches of the industry were as follows :
Metric Tons
Coastal and inland fisheries
3,038,000
Offshore
810,000
Overseas
396,000
Colonial
1,762,000
6,006,000
Of the colonial fisheries, i.e. the fisheries on the coasts of Southern Saghalien,
Korea, Formosa, and the Mandated Pacific Islands, the most valuable, to Japan,
were those in Korea, which produced, between 1931 and 1938, an average of
1,461,000 tons per annum. About one half of this quantity was regularly brought
from Korea to Japan for consumption there; but Japan did not draw large sup-
plies from the other colonies. The offshore and overseas fisheries, most of the
production of which was brought to Japan, included the valuable bonito and tuna
fisheries in the Pacific to the east, south-east, and south of Japan, whaling in the
Pacific and in the Antarctic, trawling in the Western Pacific and in the waters
off Mexico, South America, Australia, and India, and the fisheries on the coasts
of Kamchatka and in the Okhotsk and Bering Seas. The 3,038,000 metric tons
annually obtained from coastal and inland fisheries included production of the
fisheries in the Loo Choo Islands, and in the Bonin and Kurile Islands, territories
now detached from Japan. (There are no separate statistics to show what the
production was in these three territories.)
11. Whatever decision is finally reached regarding the future limits of the
Japanese fishing industry will obviously be of great importance from the points
of view of food supply, employment, and the export trade of Japan. In the
meantime, the areas to which Japanese fishing operations were restricted in
November, 1945, have been extended. In 1946, some 237,000 kilolitres of fuel
oil were specially imported and distributed to fishing craft, and supplies of nets,
rope, wire, and other equipment are issued to the fishing industry in so far as
they are available. By August, 1947, the quantity of fish taken within the
authorized areas had increased to the same level as the catch in these waters
before the war. Experts of the Natural Resources Section are conducting in-
vestigations with a view to determining how fishing operations can best be
conducted so as to ensure maximum production over a long period without risk
of depleting the fishing grounds. As a means of adding quickly to the food
supply and to the export trade of Japan, General MacArthur's Headquarters
authorized the despatch of a Japanese whaling fleet to operate in the Antarctic
during the 1946-1947 season. The whales caught provided over 21,000 tons of
salted and frozen whale meat which was distributed as food in Japan, and 12,000
tons of whale oil and 11 tons of vitamins which were sold abroad and realized
a total of 6 million U.S. dollars. The despatch of a Japanese whaling fleet to
operate in the Antarctic during the 1947-1948 season has also been authorized.
7

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
COAL MINING, IRON AND STEEL, AND ELÉCTRICITY
12. Plans were made for the output, in the year ended March, 1947, of 24
million tons of coal ; but the actual output was only 22} million tons. The out-
put planned for the year ending March, 1948, is 30 million tons. So far, however,
the output in any one month has not reached 2 million tons, and the present
rate of production is approximately 26 million tons per annum. Since the end
of the War, the coal produced has been deficient in quality as well as in quantity.
In 1946 the Government Railways used about 7 million tons of coal as compared
with about 4 million tons consumed in 1936 for approximately the same train
mileage run. This increased coal consumption was due partly to deterioration
of railway locomotives and rolling stock, but mainly to the higher percentage of
incombustible material in the coal.
13. It is generally agreed that the reasons for the present insufficient output
of coal and its poor quality are the following :—The greatly increased demand
for coal during the war led to the exhaustion of many of the best and most easily
worked coal seams. Large numbers of skilled Korean and Chinese coal-miners
were removed from the mines at the end of the war. Housing conditions for
these miners were primitive, and it has not yet been possible to replace the
Koreans and Chinese by Japanese miners, because houses suitable for the latter
cannot be built quickly enough owing to shortages of timber and other materials.
Mining equipment during the war was overworked, and much of it needs re-
placement and repair, which is being delayed owing to the shortage of iron and
steel. Labour in the mines is now voluntary, and an eight-hour working day
has been adopted, of which, on an average, about three hours per day are spent
in walking from the shaft to the coal face, as no mechanical transport is provided.
There has been a decrease in the ratio of coal-face workers to the total number
of mine workers, because the wages paid to coal-face workers are relatively low.
In some mining districts it is customary for miners to take time off to cultivate
plots of land in order to supplement their food rations. The prices per ton,
as at present fixed by the Government for different qualities of coal, do not
sufficiently encourage the production of high-quality coal.
14. Nearly the whole of the present small output of coal is required for the
maintenance of essential services and industries, such as the railways, shipping,
electric power and gas generation, the production of iron and steel and chemical
fertilisers, the metal-mining industries, and the needs of the Occupation Forces.
Not enough is yet available, in quantity or quality, for industries that can produce
goods for export.
15. A larger output of iron and steel is urgently needed in order that machinery and
equipment in the coal mines may be repaired or replaced ; on the other hand the
output of iron and steel cannot be increased unless there is an increased output of
coal, or unless coal is diverted to the iron and steel industry at the expense of the
essential services and other industries, including industries producing for
export.
16. In the hope that a larger output of coal can be obtained as the result of
closer Government control of the coal-mining industry, the Japanese Government
has prepared a Bill, for submission to the Diet, which provides for State control
of the industry for a period of three years, with a provision that control may be
continued for a longer period if necessary. Presentation of the Bill• to the Diet
has been approved by General MacArthur, who sent to the Japanese Prime
Minister a letter, published in the press, from which the following is an extract :
"The Government should approach the problem from every angle; by con-
centrating the best engineering and other technical skill on the operations, placing
*This Bill was approved by the Diet on December 7th, 1947.
8

=== Page 371 === (confidence 1.00)
coal-mining activity generally on a twenty-four hour basis through the requisite
working shifts, providing the living facilities and food essential to the maximum
productivity of the individual, opening up new seams and mines where geological
conditions justify such action, scrupulously preventing the diversion of mined
coal to other than legitimate industrial purposes, and vigorously prosecuting any
who wilfully impede the successful accomplishment of the task".
17. Production of pig iron and crude steel has been increasing since the
beginning of 1946; but the highest output in any one month since then, because
of the shortage of coal, has been only 33,000 tons of pig iron and 92,000 tons
of crude steel. During the five years 1930 to 1934 the average monthly pro-
duction was :—pig iron, 104,000 tons, and crude steel, 227,000 tons. Because
of the shortage of coal for iron and steel production, the temporary retention in
Japan until June, 1947, of electric steel furnaces in excess of 100,000 tons annual
capacity was approved, by a decision of the Far Eastern Commission, in June,
1946 ; and in view of the continuing shortage of coal, the Commission approved,
in July, 1947, the retention of these furnaces for a further period of one year,
until June, 1948.
18. The generation of electric current during the years 1930 to 1934 averaged
185 millions of kilowatt hours per month from thermal-electric, and 1,216 millions
of kilowatt hours per month from hydro-electric installations. Since April, 1947,
however, owing to lack of coal supplies, the average monthly output from thermal-
electric installations has been only 79 millions of kilowatt hours. On the other
hand, the output from hydro-electric installations, which were expanded after
1934, has averaged 2,828 millions of kilowatt hours per month since April, 1947.
On the basis of these figures it would appear that there should be at present a
sufficient supply of electric current for all requirements in Japan; but since 1946,
because of shortages of coal, charcoal, coal-gas, and wood, there has been a very
large increase in the use of electric appliances for heating in all kinds of buildings,
and for heating and cooking in private households. There is also the difficulty
that most of the hydro-electric installations in Japan are of the aqueduct type and
depend on direct flow from the rivers. In the dry season, which lasts normally
from November to February, the flow of water from the rivers is very much
reduced. The result is that the electricity supply is in fact insufficient for all
requirements, and there are frequent restrictions of the supply of current to
industries and to all other consumers. There is some doubt, therefore, whether
full use can be made of the electric steel furnaces made available for iron and
steel production between now and June, 1948. According to the Japanese
"Economic White Paper" there has been a very great deterioration of the equip-
ment of thermal-clectric installations, as the result of insufficient repair and re-
placement, so that the actual output capacity of these installations is now less
than half what it was before the war.
19. 'The coal output target for the year ending March, 1949, has been set at
33 million tons, and plans are being made for an output of 36 million tons in
the year 1949-50 and for an output increasing annually thereafter by 3 million
tons, until a total production of 45 million tons is attained in 1952-1953. Industrial
recovery and economic recovery generally in Japan, will depend primarily on
increased coal production. In the past, coal exports, which were shipped to most
countries in East Asia and averaged a million tons annually in the three years
1935 to 1937, formed a not unimportant item in Japan's trade with these countries.
In response to requests for coal for urgent needs in Hong Kong, the resumption
of exports from Japan to the Colony were sanctioned by the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers and are being continued at present at a rate of approximately
9,000 tons monthly.
9

=== Page 372 === (confidence 1.00)
OTHER MINING, AND PETROLEUM
20. Experts of the Natural Resources Section of General MacArthur's Head-
quarters have stated that notwithstanding the urgent demand in Japan for metals
of all kinds for military purposes prior to and during the war, practically no use
was made by the Japanese of modern methods of exploration for minerals, and
that Japan was twenty years behind the rest of the world in the field of mineral
exploration when the Military Occupation began. Modern methods of exploration,
and improved mining methods, have since been introduced. Japan has workable
deposits of many of the metals, but lacks sufficient supplies of such important
minerals as high-grade iron ore, anthracite, and coking coal. Progress in mining
production at present is impeded by shortages of coal, oil, electric power, and
mechanical equipment, and shortages of housing, food, and clothing make it
difficult to recruit additional mine-workers.
21. The Natural Resources Section has paid particular attention to the search
for new petroleum deposits in Japan, and under the guidance of experts of the
Section a Petroleum Exploration Advancement Committee was formed for the
purpose of directing the necessary geological surveys with a view to locating
oil-producing strata. A new oil field was discovered in north-eastern Honshu in
August, 1947, and it is expected that new fields will be located in the Hokkaido
also.
22. Statistics compiled by the Research and Statistics Division of the Economic
and Scientific Section of General MacArthur's Headquarters show the following
progress in production of the principal metal ores and crude petroleum since
January, 1946 :—
In Metric Tons
January
Highest Production
July
1946
per month
1947
Iron ore concentrates
10,308
69,178 (Aug., 1946)
56,183
Copper ore concentrates, metal content
572
1,945 (June, 1947)
2,116
Lead ore concentrates, metal content..
182
601 (June, 1947)
464
Zinc ore concentrates, metal content
969
2,752 (June, 1947)
2,594
In Kilolitres
Crude petroleum
20,955 (Aug., 1946)
16,924
THE TEXTILE INDUSTRIES
23. cottoN. During the first half of 1946 the Japanese cotton manufacturing
industry, by making use of the small stocks of raw cotton and the small amount
of operable spinning and weaving machinery that remained to the industry at
the end of the war, produced, on an average, 2,626,000 lbs. of cotton yarn and
7,244,000 square yards of cotton cloth per month.
24. The first post-war imports of raw cotton arrived in Japan, from the U.S.A.
in June, 1946. In August, 1946, 13 million lbs. of cotton yarn and 17 million
square yards of cotton cloth were produced, and monthly production has increased,
10

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
fairiy regularly, to 25} million lbs. of yarn and 62¾ million square yards of cloth
in July, 1947. Of the cotton yarn and cloth produced since June, 1946, 80 per
cent has been made available for export from Japan. Most of the remaining
20 per cent has been allocated for use in the essential industries, and the quantities
made available for the provision of clothing, etc. for the Japanese population have
so far been very small. Further imports of raw cotton, which it is expected will
amount to 170,000 bales, are at present on the way to Japan, from India.
25. The number of spindles actually in operation at the present date (October,
1947) is about 2.2 million, out of a total of about 3 million which are operable.
The Japanese textile machinery industry sustained very little damage during
the war, and provided that sufficient supplies of coal, electric power, pig iron,
etc. are available, it is expected that the industry will be able to manufacture
spindles and supporting machinery quickly enough tc raise the number of operable
spindles to 4 million by 1949. Thereafter, depending on the extent to which
the cotton spinning industry may be expanded in subsequent years, the output
of the textile machinery Industry, which it is estimated may eventually amount
to about 1ę million spindles and supporting machinery per annum, will be avail-
able for export.
26. wooL. Operable machinery remaining to the Japanese woollen manu-
facturing industry at the end of the war consisted of only 95,000 worsted spindles,
190 woollen cards, and about 10,000 looms; but by June, 1947, these numbers
had been increased to 390,000, 450, and 10,700 respectively. Stocks of raw wool
in Japan at the end of the war amounted to only 176,000 bales, which had been
reserved for the use of the Japanese Army and Navy. These stocks have been
the only raw wool available for use by the Japanese woollen manufacturing
industry between the end of the war and August, 1947. 'They were used
gradually by the industry during that period, and by August, 1947, had been
practically all consumed. The highest monthly production figures, in the period
January, 1946, to July, 1947, were the following :—
Woollen yarn, September, 1946
2,089,000 lbs.
Worsted yarn, November, 1946
842,000 lbs.
Woollen and worsted cloth, May, 1946 ..
2,724,000 square yards.
27. Pending a final decision as to the level at which the industry should operate
in the future, the 'Textile Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of
General MacArthur's Headquarters prepared, in the summer of 1947, a programme
for the interim rehabilitation of the industry. The programme recommended
that the productive capacity of the industry should be increased to 733,000
worsted spindles and 815 woollen cards, and that the number of looms should
remain at 10,700. It recommended also that imports of raw wool should be
begun and gradually increased as the capacity of the industry expanded, and
that every effort should be made to export woollen and worsted manufactures
in sufficient volume and value to pay for the total imports of raw wool, the con-
sumption of these manufactures in Japan itself to be restricted meantime to a
minimum. In accordance with this programme, the Japanese Government was
authorised by General MacArthur's Headquarters, on August 21st, 1947, to
permit an increase in the numbers of spindles and cards up to 733,000 and 815 ;
but it was explained to the Japanese Government at the same time that this
authorization did not imply that the woollen manufacturing industry would
receive priority in supplies of fuel, raw materials, or construction materials, and
that the rate of increase in the number of spindles and cards must depend on the
availability of these materials.
11

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
28. The first post-war import of raw wool, 7,481 bales from Australia, reached
Japan in June, 1947, and was in process of distribution to the industry in August,
1947, mainly for the purpose of conversion into woollen goods for export.
Negotiations were in progress, in August, 1947, for a further import, from New
Zealand, of 10,000 bales of raw wool which it was intended should be used partly
for consumption in Japan and partly for conversion into export goods. Negotia-
tions were begun also in August, 1947, for the import, from the U.S.A., of a
portion of the surplus stock of raw wool held by the Commodity Credit Corporation.
29. RAyon. The Textile Mission (consisting of five representatives of the
United States Government and four observers from China, India, and the
United Kingdom) which visited Japan early in 1946 found that the Japanese
rayon industry, as the result of the scrapping of machinery and bomb damage
during the war, had in March, 1946, machinery sufficient for the production
of a total of only 354 million Ibs. of rayon yarn and staple fibre per annum.
Before the war, the industry had machinery of a productive capacity of over
1,600 million lbs. per annum. Production of yarn and of staple in March, 1946,
was 379,000 lbs. and 1,545,000 lbs. respectively, and production increased to
1,522,000 lbs. of yarn and about 2 million lbs. of staple in July, 1947.
30. As in the case of the woollen manufacturing industry, a programme for
the interim rehabilitation of the rayon industry has been prepared by the Textile
Division of the Economic and Scientific Section of General MacArthur's Head-
quarters. The programme recommended that supplies of coal, wood pulp, caustic
soda, etc., should gradually be made available to the industry, until a production
of a total of 150,000 metric tons of yarn and staple per annum was attained, and
that the number of spindles in the rayon staple spinning branch of the industry
should be raised to 500,000. It recommended further that all possible efforts
should be made to increase exports of the products of the industry to the equivalent
of 60 million lbs. of rayon filament and 30 million lbs. of rayon staple per annum.
The Japanese Government was authorized on April 4th and on July 8th, 1947,
to take the necessary measures to increase production of yarn and staple to 150,000
metric tons per annum and to raise the number of spindles to 500,000. In both
cases the Japanese Government was informed that the authorization was not to
be construed as granting priorities for supplies of fuel, electric power, or raw
materials to the industry.
31. It was stated in the programme that the competent officials of the Natural
Resources Section of General MacArthur's Headquarters were of the opinion that
the Japanese forests could provide the necessary pulp wood, and that Japanese
wood pulp producers could supply the quantities of pulp necessary for the interim
rehabilitation of the rayon industry, provided that the necessary supplies of coal
and chemicals could be made available for wood pulp production. It was added,
however, in the programme, that the quality of the wood pulp at present produced
in Japan was low, and that it was probable that high-grade pulp would have to
be imported and mixed with Japanese-produced pulp, if the quality of Japanese-
made rayon was to be improved sufficiently to ensure that the finished products
of the Japanese rayon industry could compete successfully in foreign markets
with the products of the rayon industries of other countries.
32. The success of the interim programmes for the cotton, woollen, and rayon
industries will depend on increasing supplies of coal. Even if sufficient imports
of raw cotton and raw wool are obtained, coal supplies will be the limiting factor
as regards production in the cotton and woollen manufacturing industries. The
rayon industry is even more dependent on coal supplies, since rayon production
requires more coal per unit of output than the production of cotton or woollen
manufactures.
12

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
RÉSUMÉ OF PROGRESS IN INDUSTRIAL RECOVERY
33. An interesting résumé of the difficulties in the way of industrial recovery
and of the progress that has nevertheless been made during the two years since
September, 1945, was presented to the Allied Council for Japan by the Chairman
and United States Member, on October 1st, 1947. Thc following are passages
from the résumé :
"Initially, the Occupation was confronted with an industrial establish-
ment virtually at a standstill. The effect of the Allied blockade of Japan
by sea and by air had throttled all supply lines from Asia and the island
portions of her former Empire, while bombing raids had destroyed perhaps
30% of her overall plant capacity and had greatly disorganized all industrial effort
through the burning of cities and disruption of essential services. With
surrender and entrance of the occupying armies, industrial chaos became
even more pronounced. The Munitions Ministry, somewhat comparable to
the American War Production Board, had been dissolved with no govern-
mental organization of adequate scope to replace it in directing industrial
production. At the time of surrender, most war industries were shut down and
workers discharged and paid off with large yen allowances. Much of the
industrial labor force had already fled the urban areas, while shipping and
other services had come almost to a complete stop. The textile and chemical
industries were found almost at a standstill. Less then 30% of the machinery
and metal-working plants were in operation. Steel production fell likewise,
and reached an all-time low of less than 5,000 tons of rolled products in
October, 1945."
"Attendant upon the release of several hundred thousand Korean and
Chinese impressed mineworkers, who rioted throughout mining communities
while awaiting repatriation, the coal-mining industry had degenerated into
chaos. The Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, in this situation,
in September, 1945, issued Directive No. 3, calling upon the Japanese to
maximize production of consumers' goods and other essentials, and specified
a list of some ten war industries in which production was prohibited."
"Since that time, the inability to import even the greatly reduced peace-
time material requirements of such commodities as high-grade iron ore,
high-grade coking coal, wood-pulp, wool, soya beans, minerals, hides and
skins, and tanning materials has obliged Japan to subsist on meagre stock-
piles and her own inadequate resources. Failure of the resumption of a
flow of raw materials sufficient at least to meet Japan's minimum requirements
has imposed an insuperable obstacle in the way of an emergence of a self-
supporting economy and, further, has deprived Japan's neighbours of urgently
required manufactured products—for Japan still represents the chief pro-
spective source of fabricated products for the Asiatic area. Further factors
complicating Japan's industrial recovery have been the critical shortages of
food and consumers' goods and the inflationary price spiral."
"Very substantial recovery has however taken place. The index of
industrial production has risen from a low point in the fall of 1945 to present
levels of approximately 45 calculated upon a base period of the average for
the years 1930-34. This base period is used since it represents the Far
Eastern Commission's appraisal as to what constitutes normal peacetime
requirements. This five-year average in every case underestimates current
peacetime requirements because of the 20% population increase. The war-
time peak production index was approximately twice the 1930-1934 average."
"The major production handicap throughout the Occupation has been
the coal shortage. By the war's end, Japanese mines were in an extremely
debilitated condition requiring extensive repairs and replacements as a result
13

=== Page 376 === (confidence 1.00)
of destructive wartime stripping and grossly inadequate maintenance for many
years. Machinery and tool shortages were, and are, a serious obstacle to
recovery. Replacement of the large numbers of repatriated Korean and
Chinese laborers who had been impressed into service in pits, constituted
a major initial problem. Although 130,000 Japanese were recruited  re-
placements by the spring of 1946, through intensive SCAP and Japanese
Government efforts, labor turnover has been high and miners relatively
unskilled. The decrease in working hours from ten- and twelve-hour shifts
to eight hours resulted in a much greater loss in working time at the coal
face. Output per worker has fallen from 17 tons per month for the period
1935-1938 to a present level of about 5.5 tons. Working conditions are the
most hazardous of any major coal-producing country in the world, creating
serious difficulties in maintaining a stable labor force."
"Recovery in iron and steel production has been critically bandicapped
by the coal shortage. Steel production has recovered from practically zero
at the outset of the Occupation to a level of some 90,000 tons of ingot per
month, or approximately one-third of minimum requirements. Steel output
per unit of coal used is substantially below normal because of the low quality
of iron ore and coal; this has been further aggravated by the low level of
operation and consequent inefficient use of fuel."
"Production of chemicals has been confronted with the same short
supplies as other basic industry, principally the lack of coal, salt, iron pyrites
and, seasonally, electric power. Production of soda ash and caustic soda,
basic to rayon and many other industries, remains so low as to constitute
a major handicap to recovery. Fertilizer production has been maximised
by SCAP action through concentration of production in and channelling of
available materials to a small number of designated efficient plants. As a
result, synthetic nitrogen fertilizer production has been quadrupled since
early 1946. It is now running at more than 80% of former peak production
but, due to the loss of imports from Korea, present output meets only some
50% of Japan's calculated requirements."
"Shortage of fats and oils is particularly acute in Japan in view of her
dependence on soya beans as a source and in view of the fact that soya bean
imports have been abysmally low, averaging less than 200 tons a month in
1946 compared with more than 75,000 tons a month in the pre-war period.
As a result, the soap, paint, fatty acid, and similar industries are seriously
prejudiced."
"The textile industry is the very heart of the Japanese economy. Japan
in pre-war years led the world in volume of raw silk production, and manu-
factured cotton and rayon exports. Failure of these industries thus far to
make a more substantial recovery has depressed the entire Japanese economy.
Raw silk output, while more than doubling since early 1946, is currently
operating at only one-sixth of the 1930 level. The silk industry virtually
disappeared during the war by reason of the inaccessibility of Japan's markets,
and reeling establishments came to a virtual standstill. Most important,
however, this industry, which during its peak was able to sell annually over
$300 million worth of raw silk to the United States, is in effect a casualty
to technological change, namely, the development and widespread use of
synthetics.'
"Shortages of raw wool have frustrated recovery in the woollen industry.
Production in 1946 and 1947 has been undertaken on the basis of inventory
stocks. However, substantial capacity is available and resumption of raw
wool imports will permit a quick rise in productive activity."
"Rayon yarn and fabric output, one of Japan's best pre-war sources of
foreign exchange, has been seriously handicapped because of deficiencies of
caustic soda, rayon pulp, and coal."
14

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.99)
."The production of machinery and mechanical equipment has been
limited by scarce supply of fuel, power, and minerals. While Japan needs
machinery and mechanical items of every type, production has been con-
centrated in accordance with priority programmes for the rehabilitation of
coal mines and fertilizer production. Generally, the machinery production
index is about the same as that for industry as a whole. However, since
machinery constitutes one of Japan's main hopes for replacement of probably
reduced exports in textiles and raw silk, the production of machinery will
necessarily have to be increased relatively more than most other categories."
RAILWAYS AND ROAD TRANSPORT
(The information in the two following paragraphs is taken from
the Japanese "Economic White Paper" published in July, 1947.)
34. The total length of all the tracks and sidings of the Government Railways
is at present about 32,000 kilometres, and the total weight of steel in the rails
and other fixed equipment is about 2,300,000 tons. On the assumption that the
average life of a rail is 30 years, the quantity of steel required annually for rail
replacement, and for the maintenance and repair of other fixed equipment, is
from 70,000 to 80,000 tons. The amount of steel available for these purposes
has however progressively decreased since 1939 (in 1944 it was less than 10,000
tons), and the accumulated amount of steel now required, if all worn-out rails
are to be replaced and other fixed equipment restored to good condition, is
approximately 250,000 tons.
35. Locomotives and passenger and freight rolling-stock are also very much
in need of renewal and repair. Thirty per cent of the steam locomotives and
25% of the electric locomotives now in use are old and need to be replaced.
The corresponding figures for passenger coaches and goods rolling-stock are 20%
and 25%. The frequency with which locomotives now break down is three
times the frequency of the pre-war years. In the case of passenger coaches and
goods wagons, break-downs now occur, respectively, with more than twice the
frequency, and nine times the frequency, of the pre-war years. In order to bring
the Government Railways back to the same state of efficiency as before the war,
750,000 tons of steel materials are required for replacements and repair of loco-
motives and rolling-stock, in addition to the 250,000 tons required to restore the
permanent way. The present condition of the privately-owned railways, as
regards railway tracks, locomotives, and rolling-stock, is worse than that of the
Government railways.
36. Tramway systems throughout the country are also in need of renewal and
repair, and there are shortages of motor buses, motor trucks, and all other motor
vehicles, and of tyres and gasoline. Over fifty per cent of the tramway and motor
transport equipment in the country was destroyed or damaged during the war.
In order to alleviate the shortage of motor transport, arrangements were recently
made for the release, for civilian use, of a number of motor vehicles from
surplus stocks held by the Occupation Forces.
37. Roads, railway tracks, and bridges in Japan suffered very little damage
from bombing during the war; but between 1940 and 1945 there was almost
complete lack of road and street maintenance and repair. Since the autumn of
1945, maintenance and repair work has been resumed under the direction of the
Occupation Forces; but much work still needs to be done to restore all road
surfaces and street paving to good condition.
15

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.99)
MERCHANT SHIPPING
(The information in the following two paragraphs is
iaken from the Japanese "Economic White Paper".)
38. Japanese-owned steel vessels of over 100 gross registered tons at present
available for use in coastwise and near-seas trade number 770, of a total gross
registered tonnage of about 1,330,000 tons. Of these, 460 vessels of a total groes
registered tonnage of about 900,000 tons are cargo ships; but about 80 of the
460 are being used at present for the transport of repatriates and for other special
purposes, so that only 380 vessels of a total of 630,000 gross registered tons are
regularly available for the carriage of cargo. Moreover, of the total of 460 cargo
vessels, about 70 per cent are ships that were built during the war. Their
efficiency is low; they frequently develop engine and other defects, and they
will not remain seaworthy for very long. Of the remaining 30 per cent, most
are vessels about forty years old, and although they are of better construction
than those built during the war they are now hardly fit for further service.
Maintenance of vessels in seaworthy condition is difficult because of shortages
of materials. Of vessels of the sizes most suitable for coastwise trade there is
a severe shortage, and the number of vessels suitable for ocean navigation is only
nine.
39. During the year 1946, the total weight of merchandise carried coastwise
and between Japan and China (railway sleepers to China and salt from China),
was 6,680,000 tons. Since April, 1947, because of favourable weather, it has
been possible to transport about 800,000 tons of merchandise monthly. It will
be difficult to increase this amount unless more vessels can be salvaged, damaged
vehicles can be repaired, and vessels already under construction can be completed,
and unless arrangements can be made in the meantime for the chartering of ships
from abroad. All these measures are urgently necessary; but the first three are
being delayed by shortages of the necessary materials. It is estimated that if the
necessary materials and labour could be provided, the present programme of
salvage, repairs, and completion of new vessels could be finished by April, 1951.
40. Besides steel ships (to which the information in the above two paragraphs
refers) there have always been in use, on the Japanese coasts, a large number of
small-sized wooden ships, and according to figures issued by the Research and
Statistics Division of the Économic and Scientific Section of General MacArthur's
Headquarters, wooden ships carried, in January, 1947, 1,312,000 tons weight of
merchandise, a quantity which increased, fairly regularly, to 1,945,000 tons carried
in June.
41. The difficulties in the way of securing a larger output of coal in Japan
have been mentioned in paragraph 13. There is also difficulty about the trans-
portation of coal, most of which has always been carried coastwise. The railways
carry all that they can in their present impaired condition, and the transport of
coal in large quantity, by wooden ships, is not practicable. Experts are of the
opinion that it will hardly be possible to transport even the 30 million tons of
coal which, it is hoped, will be produced in the year ending March, 1948, unless
more steel vessels suitably equipped for the handling of coal are employed; and
they believe that the necessary ships can best be obtained by chartering from
abroad. If, as is planned, coal production increases by about 3 million tons
annually, after March, 1948, the chartering of foreign vessels will be still more
necessary.
SOCIAL AND FINANCIAL CONDITIONS
42. PopuLATioN. According to figures presented to the Allied Council for
Japan on October 29th, the number of Japanese repatriated from overseas since
16

=== Page 379 === (confidence 1.00)
the end of the war totalled 5,765,244 at October 23rd, and a total of about 840,000
remained to be repatriated. Repatriation, from Japan, of over 1,170,000 Chinese,
Koreans, and Loo-Chooans had been completed. A census of population in
Japan was begun on October 1st, 1947. It has not yet been completed, owing
to disorganization in areas affected by the floods of September 1947 (mentioned in
paragraph 8); but the following preliminary results have been reported :—The
total population is estimated at 78,220,840, which is an increase of over 4 millions
since April 26th, 1946, the census taken at that date, and recently corrected,
having shown a total population of 74,024,000. In July and August, 1946, the
number of marriages in Japan was 87,292; in the same two months of 1947 it
was 138,355. Corresponding figures for births were 338,530 and 463,589, and
for deaths, 260,351 and 203,098. The increases in the numbers of marriages
and births are the result mainly of the repatriation of Japanese from abroad, and
the decrease in the number of deaths is ascribed to the improved public health
conditions introduced by the Occupation authorities. In September, 1947,
officials of the Research and Statistics Division of the Economic and Scientific
Section of General MacArthur's Headquarters estimated that the population of
Japan was then increasing at an annual rate of 1} millions.
43. UNEMPLoYMENT. As the result of the elimination of Japan's war in-
dustries and of the low levels at which the peaceful manufacturing industries
are at present operating, a large part of the industrial population is either un-
employed or only partially employed. Many of the wholly unemployed have
moved to the country districts where they help with agricultural work. The
partially unemployed are those on the payrolls of industrial companies whose
output is at present very much reduced, but who apparently hesitate to dismiss
superfluous employees because of the opposition of the Labour Unions and the
labour unrest that might ensue. In answers to questions in the Diet during
July, 1947, the competent Minister estimated the number of wholly unemployed
at 2,700,000, and the number of partially unemployed at between 7,900,000 and
8,100,000. A considerable appropriation has been made in the 1947-1948 Budget
for public works for unemployment relief, which, according to statements in the
Diet, may provide employment for 3 million workers in 1948. Obviously, how-
ever, there can be no complete solution of the present unemployment problem
until much more progress has been made with all the measures of reconstruction
and new development necessary for the rehabilitation of the Japanese economy
and referred to in preceding paragraphs.
44. HousING. The Japanese War Damage Reconstruction Board recently
calculated that, after deducting the number of houses rendered vacant by war
deaths, there was, at the end of the war, a shortage of 3,730,000 dwelling houses,
and that, in addition to the replacement of these, 670,000 more houses were
required for the accommodation of Japanese repatriated from abroad. Between
the end of the War and June, 1947, some 400,000 houses had been built, so that
there was still a shortage in June, 1947, from war causes, of about 4 million houses.
Over and above this shortage, there remained the need to replace the annual loss,
from fire, flood, earthquake, etc., and natural decay, of some 100,000 houses, and
also the need to build annually about 100,000 new houses to accommodate the
natural increase of the population. In the course of a debate in the Japanese
Diet in August, 1947, it was stated that the number of persons then without
houses was 13 millions. The Japanese authorities were able to allocate, for the
year ended March, 1947, sufficient timber for the building of only 250,000 wooden
houses of small size. How soon this rate of allocation can be increased will depend
on how quickly the present shortages of equipment in the forestry and timber
industries, and the shortage of transport of all kinds, can be remedied. There
are shortages also, at present, of paper, glass, nails, and other materials used in
house building.
17

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.99)
(The information in paragraphs 45 to 48 below is
taken from the Japanese "Economic White Paper".)
45. HOUsEHOLD FUEL. If the index numbers for the annual average pro-
duction of charcoal, firewood, and coal briquettes, which are the principal house-
hold fuels, be taken as 100, in each case, for the years 1930 to 1936, the index
numbers for the annual average production of these in the two years 1945 and
1946 are found to be charcoal 65, firewood 66, briquettes 43. Transport difficulties
hindered the distribution of these fuels, and at the end of 1946 the total quantity
of all three that it was possible to distribute, in the six largest cities, had fallen,
in terms of charcoal, to an average ration of only 14 bales of charcoal per house-
hold per annum. (The average Japanese household of two adults and three
children normally consumes about 36 bales per annum.) During 1945 and 1946,
owing to the shortage of coal, the gas supply in the cities was very inadequate,
and increasing use was made of electric heaters for household use. Production
and deliveries of charcoal, firewood, and coal briquettes during the three months
of April to June, 1947, have been only about 60 per cent of the amounts planned
for. It is expected that the continuing shortage of coal will make any increase
in gas supplies during the coming winter very difficult, and it is expected also
that there will be a greater shortage of electric current than during the winter
of 1946-1947.
46. CLOTHING, FOOTGEAR, ETC. The consumption of textiles for clothing,
which in the years before the war was about 10 lbs. per person per annum,
declined to 6.2 lbs. in 1941, 5.3 Ibs. in 1942, 3.4 lbs. in 1943, 1.3 lbs. in 1944,
and 1.2 lbs. in 1945. In 1946 it was possible, by using textile materials previously
held by the military and by other official bodies, and materials previously hoarded
or otherwise concealed, to restore the consumption, temporarily, to 2.6 lbs. per
head. During the present year, however, it will hardly be possible to find
materials enough for an average consumption, per head of the population, of
2 lbs. of textiles, and as it will be necessary to allow somewhat more than 2 lbs.
to agricultural workers, coal-miners, workers in other essential industries, pregnant
mothers, and infants, the quantity available for the general public will hardly
allow of a consumption of 1 lb. per head.
47. No increase in the consumption of textiles for clothing can be expected
in the near future. Almost all silk, of which there is now a smaller production
than in pre-war years, has to be exported in order to pay for imports of food
and other necessaries; the raw cotton imported is used mainly for the manu-
facture of piece goods for export ; and no quick increase in the output of artificial
silk is possible as long as the present shortage of coal and other necessary materials
continues.
48. It is estimated that the materials available for the production of paper, soap,
matches, and rubber-soled socks (as examples of daily necessaries), will allow
only for the supply of these at the following rates per person, for the present
year :—7.5 lbs. of paper per annum; 2 cakes of soap of 50 grammes each, per
annum ; 4 matches per day; 1 pair of rubber-soled socks among seven persons,
per annum. These rates are, respectively, only 28, 5, 40, and 34 per cent of the
average supplies available during the years 1930 to 1936.
49. The Japanese Government, in August, 1947, made application to General
MacArthur's Headquarters for permission to sell to the civilian population a
quantity of used boots and shoes which had been supplied to the Japanese
authorities by the United States Army in Japan, and permission was granted in
October, 1947, for the sale of these boots and shoes to the farming population.
At the same time permission was given for a 10 per cent increase of the small
18

=== Page 381 === (confidence 1.00)
quantity of cotton yarn allocated at present for the manufacture of cotton cloth
for civilian clothing.
50. PRICES, WAGEs, ETC. When the military occupation of Japan was
effected it was the intention of the Occupying Forces that all stocks of materials
that had been reserved for military purposes and that were suitable for conversion
into goods for civilian consumption should be handed over to the civil authorities
and used for the production of consumers' goods, in order that the shortages of
food, clothing, and other necessaries from which the civilian population suffered
might be relieved. A directive to that effect was issued to the Japanese Govern-
ment by General MacArthur's Headquarters in September, 1945. It was the
intention also that the rationing systems for food and other necessaries, and the
commodity price controls, which apparently worked well during the war, should
be continued. In the confused conditions at the time, however, and largely
because the formerly ubiquitous Japanese police force had been greatly reduced
in number and also deprived of many of its powers, the rationing and price control
systems broke down, and large quantities of foodstuffs and materials were not
handed over but were concealed and hoarded or secretly sold and re-sold at very
high prices. These were the origins of the unsatisfactory conditions that still
exist as regards the distribution of foodstuffs and other necessaries, and of the
black market in nearly all commodities, which flourishes in Japan.
51. The Japanese authorities have not yet been able to restore an efficient
rationing system nor to put an end to black market profiteering. The issues of
rations of the staple food, rice, have often been as much as 20 to 30 days in arrears.
Japanese of all classes, and including the police themselves, find it necessary to
buy in the black market in order that they and their families may have enough
to eat and to wear. Government orders prescribing the current official prices
for most commodities are issued periodically; but so much buying and selling
is done in the black market that these orders are of little effect. In the continuing
shortages of commodities of all kinds and the increasing demand for them, black
market prices have continued to rise. This has led to periodic demands for higher
wages or for extra cash allowances. When these are granted, as they have been,
in most cases, so far, the natural result is that sooner or later there is a further
rise in prices. This upward movement of prices and of wages still continues.
It has been accompanied by an increase in the note issue of the Bank of Japan
from 42,759 million yen at June 30th, 1946, to 156,417 million yen at September
30th, 1947.
52. Japanese Government expenditure for wages of employees and for supplies
of various kinds, including supplies required by the Occupation Forces, also has
increased. The Budget, including four supplements to the main Budget, for the
year 1946-1947 provided for a total expenditure of 92,522 million yen, including
38,300 million yen for Occupation costs and other expenses connected with the
termination of the war. The original Budget for 1947-1948 provided for an
expenditure of 114,503 million yen, including 27,000 million yen for Occupation
costs, etc., but in October, 1947, the Government found it necessary to sanction
a supplementary Budget which provided for an additional expenditure of 92,522
million yen, 39,000 million yen of which was for Occupational costs, etc. It is
generally expected that further supplementary Budgets for the year 1947-1948
will be necessary.
53. The only quick remedy for the above state of things would be the import
into Japan of foodstuffs, consumers' goods, and all the other materials at present
in short supply in Japan, in such large quantities that if they were distributed,
by means of an effective system of rationing and price control, throughout the
19

=== Page 382 === (confidence 1.00)
country, the present needs of the population would be satisfied. Imports on this
scale, however, and the restoration of an effective system of rationing and price
control, seem at present remote possibilities.
FOREIGN TRADE
54. On a government-to-government basis, merchandise trade between Japan
and the U.S.A., the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, Australia, Singapore, Ceylon,
India, and a few other countries has been in operation since the autumn of 1945.
It seems useful to give some account of this trade, because it indicates the kinds
of commodities that it has been necessary to import into Japan, and hich it will
be necessary to import in future, to sustain the japanese economy,  ud because
it indicates also the kinds of commodities that Japan is already able to export,
and should (with the possible exception of raw silk) be able to export in larger
quantities in future, if economic recovery continues.
55. The principal commodities imported, so far, through government-to-
government trade channels, have been of the same kinds as Japan has always
had to import, namely foodstuffs (wheat, wheat flour, maize, sugar, cooking oils,
salt); fertilizers (phosphate rock and potash); petroleum products; raw cotton
and wool; rubber; tanning materials; salt, for industrial use. The principal
exports have been raw silk and silk piece goods; cotton yarn and piece goods
and other manufactures of cotton ; rayon yarn (and some rayon fabrics); woollen
fabrics (a small quantity); agricultural products (tea, tinned oranges, dried
mushrooms); forestry products (timber, plywood, bamboo, camphor, furs);
fishery products (tinned crab, dried fish and shell-fish, agar-agar, cultured pearls,
seed oysters); ores, metals, and machines; pottery and porcelain ; paper of
special kinds; cellulose film; miscellaneous manufactured goods (bicycles, electric
fans, clocks and watches, slide rules, safety matches); coal (please sec para-
graph 19). Statistics (preliminary estimates only) of the value of the merchandise
trade between Japan and other countries, through government-to-government
channels, were presented to the Allied Council for Japan by the Chairman and
United States Member of the Council, on September 17th, 1947. The informa-
tion contained in the following paragraphs is based on the statistical material
presented to the Council.
56. The total value of the imports received by Japan in the year 1946 and the
first four months of 1947 was 424 million U.S. dollars, made up as follows:
Millions of
U.S. dollars
Foodstuffs
226
Raw cotton
126
Fertilizers
33
Petroleum
19
Salt
9
Chemicals and medical supplies
6
Rubber
2
Other imports
3
424
Practically all the above imports were from the U.S.A., the principal exceptions
being salt from Red Sea and Mediterranean ports, rubber from Malaya, and some
foodstuffs and other merchandise from Hong Kong, China, and Southern Korea.
The United Kingdom share of imports into Japan was U.S. $2.7 millions.
20

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.99)
57. Exports from Japan d uring 1946 and the first four months of 1947 were
of a total value of 171 million U.S. dollars, as follows:
Millions of
U.S. dollars
Raw silk ..
87
Silk textiles
1
Cotton yarn and textiles
23
Rayon
3
Woollen ,
3
Ores, metals and machines
27
Timber, bamboo, and paper
357
Agricultural and fishery products
Other exports, including pottery and porcelain
Coal
12
171
Of the above exports, practically all the raw silk, most of the ores and metals,
and a large part of the pottery and porcelain and of the agricultural, forestry,
and fishery products went to the U.S.A. and were of a total value of 111 million
U.S. dollars. Exports to Southern Korea amounted in value to U.S. $21.5
millions. The coal exports went mainly to Hong Kong; and there were exports
to Hong Kong, and to Singapore, of pottery and porcelain, clocks and watches,
fishery products, yarn and textiles, electric fans, and other metal manufactures.
Exports to the Netherlands East Indies were valued at U.S. $9.8 millions, and
exports to India, Burma, and Ceylon at U.S. $2.4 millions. The value of the
exports to the United Kingdom was U.S. $3.6 millions.
58. The raw silk exported from Japan in 1946 was of a value of 84 million
U.S. dollars, and this amount was 65% of the total value of all exports in that
year. In the first four months of 1947, the raw silk exported was of a value of
only 3 million U.S. dollars, which was less than 7‡% of the total value of the
exports in that period. There have been reports that much of the raw silk
exported since the beginning of 1946 to the U.S.A., which has always, in the
past, purchased very much larger quantities of Japanese raw silk than any other
country, have remained unsold. It appears that the former large demand in the
U.S.A. for manufactures of natural silk no longer exists, and that a preference
for the manufactures of nylon and similar synthetic products has been established.
Plans in the U.S.A. for an advertising campaign which it was hoped might revive
the demand for goods made from natural silk seem to have been abandoned. In
the past, Japan earned very much more foreign exchange from the export of raw
silk than from the export of any other single commodity, with the exception in
some years of cotton tissues, and the loss, if it is to be permanent, of the principal
market for her most profitable export must seriously retard Japan's economic
recovery. Another profitable export for Japan in the past was the annual ship-
ment of tinned salmon and tinned crab from the Japanese fisheries, now lost to
the Russians, on the coasts of Kamchatka, the Kurile Islands, and Saghalien, and
in the Okhotsk and Bering Seas. Only a very reduced export of tinned crab will
now be possible from the fishing areas remaining to the Japanese in northern
waters, and it is doubtful whetner exports of tinned salmon will be possible.
59. It is estimated that up to the end of June, 1947, imports into Japan to the
value of about U.S. $500 millions, and exports from Japan to the value of about
U.S. $200 millions, were made through government-to-government trade channels.
Government-to-government trading still continues, and in the summer of 1947
21

=== Page 384 === (confidence 1.00)
arrangements were made which allowed of the resumption, from September 1st,
of trade between Japan and other countries through ordinary non-official trade
channels also, except in the case of a few commodities still reserved for government-
to-government trading. Since that date it has been possible for merchants of
other countries to make business contracts with merchants in Japan either by
telegram or letter or by making personal visits to Japan. At September 16th 1947 the
number of merchants on visits to Japan was 102, of whom 51 were from the U.S.A.
and 19 were from the United Kingdom. At the same date 25 representatives
of banking, insurance and shipping companies, of whom 17 represented British
companies, had arrived in Japan, and it is gradually becoming possible for them
to resume business. Business transacted through non-official trade channels is
subject to final approval, as regards price and other conditions, by General Mac-
Arthur's Headquarters. Up to September 16th 1947 approval had been given to
purchases, by merchants visiting Japan, of Japanese goods of a total value of U.S.
$798,797, and purchases still waiting approval at that date were estimated to
amount to U.S. $1,071,944. The Japanese goods purchased, up to September
16th, were of the following kinds :—pottery and porcelain, tinned foods, furs,
cultured pearls, silk textiles, chemicals, fishing tackle, toys and fancy goods.
60. Most of the merchants who have visited Japan since September 1st came
as buyers, and not as sellers of goods to Japan. Generally speaking, they found
business conditions difficult. As no commercial rate of exchange yet exists
between the Japanese yen and the currency of any other country, a separate rate
of exchange between the yen and the U.S. dollar, or other currency if convertible
into U.S. dollars, had to be negotiated for each class of Japanese goods purchased
for export, this rate being arrived at on the basis of the cost of production, in
yen, in Japan, and current or pre-war selling prices of the same kinds of goods
in other countries. In many cases business visitors found the resulting export
prices for Japanese goods too high. They found also that, as the result of Japanese
manufacturers and exporters having been out of touch with foreign markets since
1941, many of the goods offered for export were unsuitable for the markets for
which they were intended. Another difficulty was that in many cases the Japanese
manufacturers and exporters could not, because of shortages of materials in Japan,
undertake to meet orders for future deliveries. Much of the merchandise that
Japan has been able to export since the beginning of 1946 has been produced
from materials that existed in the country when the war came to an end and
which have meantime been exhausted.
61. When arrangements for the resumption of trade between Japan and other
countries through ordinary trade channels were being considered in the summer
of 1947, it became obvious that, because of the lack of materials in Japan for the
production of goods for export, some method would have to be found of enabling
Japan to import the necessary materials. The method adopted was the utilization,
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, of approximately 137 million
U.S. dollars worth of Japanese-owned gold and silver as security for loans to pay
for the import into Japan of raw materials for the manufacture of goods for export,
the profits from the exports then to be used to finance further imports of materials
for the production of further exports, and this process to continue. It was
estimated that by this method a revolving credit could be established which would
eventually amount to approximately 500 million U.S. dollars. The security for
the credit, called The Occupied Japan Export-Import Revolving Fund, was
established as from August 14th, 1947.
62. The most recently reported developments in foreign trade have been the
following:
22

=== Page 385 === (confidence 1.00)
Between the beginning of 1946 and the end of August, 1947, approximately
263} million linear yards of cotton piece goods were exported from Japan. The
distribution of these exports was :
To
Million Yards
Aden
8
Australia
5
Ceylon
2
Gold Coast
2
Hong Kong
3
India
17
Kenya and Uganda
3
Netherlands East Indies
60
Nigeria
4
Northern Rhodesia
2
Philippine Islands
4
Siam
25
Singapore
8
Sudan
12
Sweden
12
Tanganyika
2
Turkey
28
United Kingdom
58
Other Destinations
8
2631
In September, 1947, contracts were made for exports from Japan, to destina-
tions more or less the same as those above, of 578 million linear yards of cotton
piece goods, 35 million lbs. of cotton yarn, and 500,000 dozen cotton singlets.
The total value of these exports is approximately 161 million U.S. dollars, and
90 per cent of the goods have been produced from raw cotton exported to Japan
from the U.S.A.
A contract was made in September, 1947, between the Japanese Board of
Trade and representatives of the Russian Government for the building in Japan
of 100 wooden tugboats and 75 barges for use in Sakhalien. The Russian
authorities contracted at the same time to deliver to Japan 25,000 tons of coal
and coke, 1,500 tons of wood-pulp, and 4,000 tons of graphite.
At the beginning of October, 1947, contracts were made between the Japanese
Board of Trade and a United States company for the export from Argentina to
Japan of 900 tons of quebracho extract for the tanning of fishing nets and leather,
and between the Japanese Board of Trade and the Belgian Government for the
supply to Japan of 800 tons of refined resin for use in the manufacture of paints
and varnish.
23

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
Part II
THE FUTURE DEVELOPMENT
OF THE JAPANESE ECONOMY
63. Considerable progress (indicated in Part I) has been made towards the
rehabilitation of the Japanese economy, particularly in the important matter of
the restoration of Japan's foreign trade, and further good progress will be made
as long as the present Military Occupation of Japan continues. There is much
evidence that in agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining, and the manufacturing
industries, the Japanese are being taught, by the experts of the Natural Resources
and the Economic and Scientific Sections of General MacArthur's Headquarters,
better methods of obtaining the optimum production from the natural resources
of the country, and better methods of processing the materials obtained, and it
seems certain that the longer the Occupation lasts, the more securely will the
bases of a self-sustaining economy for Japan be established.
64. But although good progress in economic recovery has been and is continuing
to be made, complete establishment of the necessary bases for a self-sustaining
economy for Japan (as will be evident also from Part I) still requires the
following :
(a) the organization of a sufficient and well-distributed food supply. (All the
Japanese with whom I have been able to discuss these matters insist that
this is the first essential, and that, for the Japanese worker, no other foodstuff
is an effective substitute for rice);
(b) provision of sufficient supplies of clothing and footgear;
(c) the building of about 4 million dwelling houses destroyed during the War
and the rebuilding or repair of factories and factory equipment destroyed or
damaged ;
(d) provision of sufficient and well-distributed supplies of coal, charcoal, wood,
gas, and electric current for industry and for household heating, cooking,
and lighting ;
(e) restoration of the railway and tramway systems and motor-bus, motor-truck
and other forms of motor transport to pre-war standards of efficiency;
(f)
the restoration by salvage, repairs to damaged vessels and completion of vessels
under construction, of a merchant shipping fleet of steel vessels sufficient for
the coastwise trade of Japan, and the restoration of a ship-building and ship-
repairing industry sufficient to maintain this fleet ;
(g)
increased industrial development of Japan's natural resources in order that
the peaceful needs of the Japanese people may be supplied, as far as possible,
directly from these resources, and in order that the maximum possible quantities
of products, not required for consumption in Japan, may be manufactured
from these resources and exported from Japan;
(h) the regular import into Japan of such quantities of foodstuffs and other com-
modities as it may be essential to import in order to supplement the supplies
of these obtained by the increased development of Japan's natural resources;
(i) the regular import into Japan of raw materials for processing in Japan and
conversion into export commodities of higher values than the raw materials
imported, in order that receipts from the sale abroad of these commodities,
and any profits Japan may earn from invisible trade, may together make up
the difference between the value of the exports indicated in (g) and the cost
of the essential imports indicated in (h) ;
24

=== Page 387 === (confidence 1.00)
(j) the rehabilitation of the peaceful Japanese industries (and possibly the estab-
lishment of new industries in Japan) to the levels necessary for the purposes
indicated in (a) to (i) ;
(k) the restoration of sound financial conditions in Japan and of a more or less
stable commercial rate of exchange between the Japanese currency and the
currencies of other countries ;
(1) the restoration of the overseas trade of Japan to the extent necessary to allow
of the export and import trade indicated in (g), (h), and (i).
65. All economic activity in Japan at present is being directed, by the appropriate
departments of General MacArthur's Headquarters in co-operation with the
Japanese authorities concerned, towards meeting the requirements outlined in the
above paragraph, and the rehabilitation of the Japanese economy along these lines
is being assisted by the Governments of several countries which traded with Japan
before the war and which are now actively promoting exports of merchandise
from their territories to Japan, and the import into their territories of Japanese
products.
66. The progress so far made towards the rehabilitation of the Japanese economy
has required the grant of a certain amount of financial aid to Japan by the United
States. It is estimated that between the autumn of 1945 and the end of June,
1947, Japan received imports, the greater part of which consisted of United States
financed shipments of food, fertilizers, petroleum, and cotton, of a total value of
somewhat over 500 million U.S. dollars, and that Japan's exports in the same
period were of a value of only a little over 200 million U.S. dollars. In effect
therefore Japan received, up to June 30th, 1947, essential imports of a value of
about 300 million U.S. dollars on credit terms. Further financial aid, for the
purpose of facilitating the import into Japan of raw materials for the manufacture
of goods for export, has been arranged for by the institution of the Occupied
Japan Export-Import Revolving Fund (described in paragraph 61 in Part I)
to which it is hoped financial institutions in other countries will contribute, as
well as those in the United States. Financial aid on a substantial scale would
help the Japanese to deal with initial difficulties in the way of the resumption
of their overseas trade with some countries ; but there are other difficulties which
seem likely to prevent the development of a Japanese export and import trade on
any large scale in the near future.
67. Korea, China, including Manchuria, Formosa, Indo-China, and the Nether-
lands East Indies, if they were peaceful and prosperous, would at present be able
to purchase increasing quantities of many of the commodities that Japan can
already produce, and would be able also to supply in exchange a large part of the
foodstuffs and raw materials needed at present in Japan. But conditions in these
countries are so disturbed that at present only a very limited exchange of goods
between them and Japan is possible, and whether prosperous economic conditions
can be re-established in these countries in the near future is very doubtful. In
the Philippine Islands there has not yet been much economic recovery, and the
surplus of rice from Siam and Burma, which could normally be exported to Japan
in exchange for manufactured goods, is still being allocated for use in other
countries. Japanese economists point to the general disorganization in East and
South-east Asia as one of the greatest obstacles to the recovery of Japan's foreign
trade and to the rehabilitation of, the Japanese economy.
68. Recently there have been signs that trade between Japan and the two
newly-established states of India and Pakistan is recovering. Conditions for a
renewal of trade are, however, still unfavourable in parts of the Middle East with
which Japan had a considerable exchange of trade in the past. The same is true,
25

=== Page 388 === (confidence 1.00)
of course, of many countries in Europe with which Japan formerly traded. Other
difficulties (mentioned in paragraph 58, Part I) are that Japan has lost, at any
rate for the present, the market that formerly existed in the United States for
large quantities of raw silk, and that the profitable exports of tinned salmon and
tinned crab which Japan was formerly able to make, from fisheries in Russian
waters, are not now possible. Finally there is the difficulty that some of the
materials required (coal and iron and steel in particular) for the production of
manufactured goods for export, are the same materials as are urgently required,
and of which there is an insufficient supply, for reconstruction purposes in Japan
itself.
69. In view of all these difficulties in the way of an increase in exports and
imports in the near future, it seems unlikely that Japan can quickly accumulate
supplies of foreign exchange through profits from foreign trade, and that progress
towards the establishment of a self-sustaining economy for Japan through foreign
trade alone can therefore only be very gradual. If quick progress is to be made,
Japan must receive further financial aid in addition to the credits mentioned in
paragraph 66, in order that she may quickly procure imports of the various
materials and equipment at present lacking in Japan and necessary for economic
reconstruction. But until final decisions have been reached regarding reparations
to be made by Japan in the form of industrial equipment or in the form of goods
currently produced by Japanese industries, and regarding the levels at which
Japanese industries are to operate in the future, it will not be possible to calculate
exactly what quantities of industrial equipment, or of raw materials for industry
it will be necessary for Japan to import, nor to calculate, except approximately,
what financial aid to Japan will be necessary. At present it appears that final
decisions about reparations and future levels of industry will not be taken until
a Peace Conference has assembled and has agreed upon the terms of a Peace
Treaty for Japan.• It seems likely therefore that, until a Peace Treaty has been
signed, no further credits will be accorded to Japan, except perhaps in the form
of additional shipments of the kind mentioned in paragraph 66, i.e. United States
financed shipments of food, etc., and that in the meantime economic conditions
in Japan will continue to improve only gradually, as at present.
70. As the amount and nature of the reparations to be made by Japan, the
future levels of the Japanese manufacturing industries and of Japanese merchant
shipping, and the amount of financial assistance Japan may eventually receive
from abroad are still unknown, and as the prospects for an early increase in the
foreign trade of Japan are at present unfavourable, there are many aspects of the
Japanese cconomy the future development of which it is not possible to foresee,
but one can be reasonably sure, I think, about some developments.
71. The number of Japanese living in the four main islands of Japan is now
greater, and is increasing at a higher annual rate, than ever before, and this in-
creased and increasing population will have to depend for the means of subsistence,
to a much greater extent than before, upon the natural resources of the islands.
Under the present Military Occupation the Japanese population and the Japanese
authorities concerned are being taught how to make better use of these resources
than they did in the past. Responsible Japanese officials have stated that these
better methods will be continued after the Occupation has ended, and that in
particular the long range plans begun under the Occupation, for increased agri-
cultural and forestry development will be carried out. They have stated also
*In the interim period the Far Eastern Commission has power to make policy decisions
on such matters, and these decisions can be translated by the United States Government
into directives to the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
26

=== Page 389 === (confidence 1.00)
that the agricultural, forestry, and fishing industries must be developed so as to
provide larger quantities of export products. Production in the metal-mining
industry and also the output of cement (which is only about one quarter of the
pre-war output) are at present so retarded that there has been no discussion of
the possibility of future exports of cement, or of gold, silver, or copper. The
natural resources of Japan, however, include considerable deposits of these three
metals and of limestone for cement production, and exports should be possible,
if there is a demand for them in foreign markets, when the Japanese mining
industry has sufficiently recovered.
72. The Japanese people in general appear to realize that they must make the
best possible use of the natural resources of the country in future, in order that
a moderate standard of living may be maintained partly by the direct use of these
resources and partly through an export trade based on the development of these
resources. It is true that the Japanese record, as regards the development of the
natural resources of their country in the past—the resources of the Hokkaido for
example—has not been an impressive one; but at no time in the past was there
anything like the present increasing pressure of population upon the resources
of the four islands. In the new Japan the force of circumstances will leave the
Japanese no choice but to make the most of Japan's natural resources, and in-
creasing use of these, involving expansion of the agricultural, forestry, fishing,
and mining industries, will therefore, I feel sure, be one of the most important
developments in the Japanese economy in future.
73. As to the future of other industries in the new Japan, it is clear that
development, to the maximum possible extent, of the textile industries and
Japan's various medium and small manufacturing industries is essential if the
Japanese economy is to survive. The Japanese recognize that in proportion as
the heavy industries may be eliminated or restricted, they must concentrate their
efforts on the development of the textile and medium and small industries, and
there has been much discussion of the subject in the Japanese press, including
suggestions for the establishment of small industries in the agricultural areas in
addition to those in the cities. The medium and small industries comprise of
course the pottery and porcelain industry, the industries manufacturing small
metal wares, light machinery and mechanical appliances of various kinds, rubber
manufactures, and miscellaneous small articles such as buttons, brushes, toys, etc.
The products of the textile and medium and small industries have already (as
shown in the section Foreign Trade in Part I) provided the greater part of the
merchandise exported from Japan since the autumn of 1945.
74. The visible foreign trade of Japan, as far as one can foresee its future, will
continue, I think, on much the same lines, as regards the nature of Japan's imports
and exports, as it has followed since the autumn of 1945, that is to say the imports
and exports will be of the kinds indicated in the section Foreign Trade in
Part I. There has, however, recently been the following new development
which I think must continue to be a special characteristic of the foreign trade
of Japan for a considerable period in the future :—Since the autumn of 1945, in
the case of certain materials exported from other countries to Japan, it has been
the practice for the authorities in the exporting country to attach the condition
that a large percentage, or the whole, of the raw materials supplied must be
converted into goods for export from Japan, and that the goods exported must
be sold to certain currency areas. The condition has been attached, so far, only
to raw cotton and raw wool exported to Japan for the production of textiles for
export. There are indications however that the practice may grow, and that from
now on other raw materials may be exported to Japan on similar conditions.
There has been, for example, a statement in the press to the effect that negotiations
27

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
are procceding for the supply to Japan of iron ore, coking coal, and heavy oil, on
condition that the Japanese iron and steel industry uses these materials to produce
steel for export. The system has many advantages. On the one hand it provides
the Japanese, on temporary credit terms, with raw materials which they are not
in a position to purchase, and it relieves unemployment in Japan and assists
rehabilitation of the Japanese industries. Japan benefits also either from being
able to retain part of the manufactured goods for use in Japan or from earning,
in foreign exchange, part of the difference between the cost of the raw materials
and the prices obtained for the manufactured goods when exported. On the
other hand there is the very great advantage that the system makes it possible to
use the large and skilled labour force in Japan to produce such manufactured
goods as may be urgently required from time to time in other countries. I expect
therefore that this system of co-operation with the Japanese authorities for the
"hiring of Japanese industry" (as it is sometimes described) will be continued,
at least until a Peace Treaty for Japan has been signed, and that it will be extended
to cover the export to Japan of various kinds of raw materials for the purpose of
conversion into manufactured goods required in other countries.
75. After the signature of a Peace Treaty, while the rehabilitation of the Japanese
economy is still proceeding, I think that maintenance of a close control over im-
ports into Japan, by the Japanese authorities in co-operation with some form of
Allied supervision of Japanese economic affairs, will be necessary in order that
the imports obtained may be primarily those required for rehabilitation purposes.
And since, as far as can be foreseen, these imports will be obtainable in the
necessary quantities only as the result of financial assistance provided mainly by
the U.S.A. but partly perhaps by other Allied countries, I think that it will follow,
as a natural and reasonable result, that the Allied supervisory body, in co-operation
with the Japanese authorities, will also exercise control over any exports that the
Japanese may propose to make by using part of these imports for the production
of export goods. Such control would naturally be exercised to ensure that the
goods produced for export are of kinds urgently required from time to time in
other countries and that they were exported to those countries.
76. Another very probable development in the economy of the new Japan will
be, I think, an increase in foreign investment in industrial enterprises in Japan.
Before the war, there was considerable foreign investment of this kind, by United
States and United Kingdom companies. In 1940 United Kingdom companies
had investments in seven manufacturing enterprises in Japan proper, the whole
of the capital in three of these enterprises being British, while in the other four
there was a small percentage of Japanese capital. There have been indications
that the Japanese will welcome and indeed that they hope for capital investment
of this kind on a much larger scale in the future, along with the other financial
assistance they hope to receive from abroad. Some of the enterprises in wnich
United Kingdom companies had investments were maintained in operation by the
Japanese during the war and are still being operated, and they are, I think, the
kinds of manufacturing enterprise that the Japanese would be glad to see estab-
lished in larger numbers in Japan in future, i.e. enterprises in which modern
foreign manufacturing appliances and technique are made available, by United
States or British manufacturing companies. But besides manufacturing enter-
prises of these kinds, I think that foreign investment in any kind of enterprise
that would assist economic recovery, especially if it were to provide more employ-
ment for large numbers of Japanese, will be welcomed. Some Japanese have
suggested, in connection with the reparations question, that countries claiming
reparations in the form of factory equipment would benefit more (as would also
of course Japan) if they left tne equipment in situ and if some of their industrialists
28

=== Page 391 === (confidence 1.00)
took over the operation of the factories for a period of years, using Japanese labour.
It has even been suggested that public utilities in Japan, railways for example,
snould be taken over and operated by forcign companies, primarily in order that
these utilities may be the more quickly restored to efficient operation, but also as
a source of profit for foreign investors.
77. In the field of invisible trade, it appears at present that the only profitable
enterprise in which the Japanese can engage in the future will be the tourist trade.
They expect to earn considerable revenue from this source in the future (as they
did in the past), and I think they have good grounds for their optimism provided
that peaceful conditions prevail in East Asia. Obviously, however, a considerable
time must elapse before conditions as to food supply and transport in Japan can
be improved sufficiently to allow of any tourist traffic. In the meantime, facilities
for passenger traffic by air between America and Japan have recently been very
much increased, and United States shipping companies are planning the resump-
tion of their passenger liner services to Japan. 'The plans being made by the
Japanese themselves, according to numerous and detailed statements in the Japanese
press, are very ambitious and include the following :—Re-organization of Japan's
National Parks (12 in number, including 2 in the Hokkaido) on the United States
system, with qualified park superintendents and forest rangers, and the building
during the next twenty-five years, with the help of financial assistance from the
United States, of 135 hotels (17 in the Hokkaido), so as to bring the total number
of foreign style hotels in Japan up to 207. The plans include also the construction
of golf courses, swimming pools, yacht harbours, skating rinks, ski-ing grounds,
and mountain camps, and the reconditioning of motorable roads and the building
of new motor highways ; and a five-year plan for the building of a large number
of modernized railway coaches, including restaurant and observation cars, has been
prepared by the Japanese Ministry of Transportation.
78. In paragraphs 71 to 77 above I have tried to indicate some of the directions
in which, although the questions of reparations and future levels of industries are
still undecided, I think the Japanese economy may reasonably be expected to
develop in the future. The uncertainty as to the future level of the Japanese
merchant shipping industry in particular makes it difficult to foresee how the
Japanese economy as a whole is likely to develop, since obviously it will make
a very great difference whether the large imports of materials that Japan will have
to obtain and the merchandise that Japan may be able to export can both be carried
in Japanese ships, or whether the Japanese economy will be burdened in the future
with a large expenditure, in foreign currencies, for freight charges.
79. There are of course other uncertainties, e.g. whether one can expect in the
future a fuller and freer movement of world trade generally, from which Japan
would greatly benefit, and whether there will be a sufficient increase in world
food supplies to make it casy for Japan to obtain the imports of foodstuffs that
will be necessary if the increasing Japanese population is to be adequately fed.
The measures now being taken to increase agricultural production (mentioned in
paragraph 4, Part I) cannot take effect quickly enough to provide the increasing
quantities of food required by the growing population, and if the necessary imports
should not be obtainable, labour unrest and perhaps other disturbances of the
whole economy might result.
80. About the future of the Japanese economy as a whole one can say with
certainty that it is bound to be closely linked in future to the economy of the
United States, as the result of all the assistance which that country is giving and
will, it is clear, continue to give towards economic rehabilitation in Japan. This
29

=== Page 392 === (confidence 1.00)
will not mean that other countries, including those of the British Commonwealth,
will fail to benefit. On the contrary, if rehabilitation of the Japanese economy
continues to progress, Japan will again become a good market for materials which
British territories exported to Japan in the past, for example, rubber, tin, and iron
ore from Malaya; wool from Australia and New Zealand and perhaps South
Africa ; jute and cotton from India ; nickel and other metals from Canada ; and
British territories will again be able to obtain from Japan the manufactured goods
they previously imported. The exchange of trade between the United Kingdom
and the new Japan will be very much less than it was before the war; but if the
Japanese economy recovers, the United Kingdom will benefit indirectly from the
trade between Japan and other countries in ways which I have tried to indicate
in the next part of this Paper.
30

=== Page 393 === (confidence 1.00)
Part III
OPPORTUNITIES FOR BRITISH TRADE
A. MERCHANDISE TRADE
81. During the ten years 1930 to 1939, when the total value of the produce
and manufactures of the United Kingdom exported to all countries averaged
£439 millions per annum, the average annual value of the produce and manu-
factures of the United Kingdom exported to Japan was only £4.2 millions, and
to Japan, Formosa, Korea, and Manchuria together, £4.7 millions. In the same
ten years, when the total value of the merchandise imported into the United
Kingdom from all countries averaged £845 millions per annum, the average annual
value of the merchandise imported into the United Kingdom from Japan was
£8.3 millions, and from Japan, Formosa, Korea, and Manchuria together, £9.3
millions.
82. The period 1930 to 1939 was one of increasing industrialization in Japan,
and also of increasing industrialization, carried out by the Japanese, in Formosa,
Korea, and Manchuria, and it was, on the whole, a period of increasing commercial
prosperity in all the four territories. Much of the exchange of merchandise
between the United Kingdom and Formosa, Korea, and Manchuria was, during
the period, carried on not directly, but indirectly via Japan, and formed a large
part of the trade between Japan and the United Kingdom. It is to be expected
therefore that, in the future, the volume of merchandise trade between the United
Kingdom and the new, truncated, and less industrialized Japan will be very much
smaller than in the years 1930 to 1939. It appears, however, that after the
resumption of normal commercial intercourse between Japan and other countries,
a moderate amount of merchandise trade in both imports from and exports to
Japan should be possible, as follows :
Imports from Japan
83. In the past, i.e. until 1939, the greater part of the merchandise imported
into the United Kingdom from Japan consisted of products of the Japanese
farming, forestry, and fishing industries. Agriculture and forestry in Japan are
at present being improved and expanded, as shown in paragraphs 4 and 9 of
Part I, and, as shown in Part II, present indications are that improvement
and expansion of these industries will continue. It will be necessary for Japan,
in order to earn the maximum possible amount of foreign exchange, to sell abroad
as much of the products of these industries as it is not absolutely essential to
retain for home consumption. It appears therefore that, if such imports are
considered necessary, the United Kingdom will be able to obtain from Japan in
the future, as in the past, supplies of the following :—Raw silk, silk cocoons and
silk waste, oak timber, plywood, bamboo, tea, camphor and camphor oil (in
reduced quantities unless Japan obtains supplies from Formosa), menthol crystals,
vegetable wax, fur skins, larch seed, and flower roots, plants, and trees. Tinned
vegetables and fruit will no doubt be obtainable if sufficient tinplate is produced
in Japan, or exported to Japan, for packing them. It is less likely that beans
and peas, in bulk, will be obtainable in the large quantities in which these were
31

=== Page 394 === (confidence 1.00)
formerly imported by the United Kingdom, because in future these crops will
probably be used in larger quantities in Japan, as part of the food supply of the
increasing population.
84. Products of the Japanese fisheries, namely tinned salmon and other fish,
and tinned crab, fish oil, and agar-agar (made from seaweed), which together
formed much the most important import, in £ sterling values, into the United
Kingdom from Japan in the ten years 1930 to 1939, will not be available in the
same large quantities as before, now that the Japanese are excluded from fishing
operations in the Kurile Islands, Saghalien, the Okhotsk and Bering Seas, and
on the coasts of Kamchatka, Siberia, and Korea. But smaller quantities of tinned
fish and tinned crab (depending on supplies of tinplate and on the amount of the
fish catch required for home consumption), fish oil, and agar-agar should be
available, from the areas remaining to the Japanese fishing industry.
85. 'The factory or handicraft products formerly imported into the United
Kingdom from Japan, in the order of their average annual import values in the
period 1930 to 1939 were :—Various cheap manufactures of cotton, silk tissues,
toys and fancy goods, buttons, pottery and porcelain, artificial silk tissues, paper
of special kinds, celluloid, brushes, and mattings and plaitings of straw, etc.
86. How the Japanese artificial silk and cotton textile industries will develop
after the Military Occupation of the country has ended is difficult to foresee. It is
possible that the production of these industries may be sufficient to meet only
the requirements for cotton and rayon products in Japan, and in China, South
East Asia, and other parts of the world where the purchasing power of the native
peoples is low, and in that case, supplies of cheap cotton and rayon products from
Japan, if it should be desired to import these into the United Kingdom, may not
be available. In the case of real silk tissues, as in the case of raw silk, I have no
doubt that Japan will manufacture for export as much as can be profitably sold
abroad, in all markets. Supplies of the other commodities mentioned in para-
graph 85 should also be available for export, provided that there is a larger output
of coal in Japan in future. All export industries that depend on coal, or on electric
power from coal-fired electricity generating plant, are at present without adequate
coal supplies.
87. Exports have already been made from Japan of many of the commodities
mentioned in paragraphs 83 to 86 above, and most of the commodities mentioned
(but not tinned salmon), are included in the programme of Japanese exports for
July, 1947—June, 1948, prepared by General MacArthur's Headquarters, and
also in the list of Japanese goods available for export in August, 1947, which was
specially compiled by General MacArthur's Headquarters in connection with the
resumption of trade with Japan, through ordinary mercantile channels, from
September 1st.
Exports to Japan
88. The greater part of the merchandise exported from the United Kingdom
to Japan in the period 1930 to 1939 consisted, as one would expect, of iron and
steel, machinery and other manufactures of iron and steel, machine and other
tools, heavy chemicals, dyes, scientific instruments and appliances, electrical
apparatus, non-ferrous metals and metal scrap of various kinds, arms, ammunition,
and military and naval stores, and aircraft. Now that the Japanese no longer
control and direct the industrialization of Manchuria, Korea, and Formosa and
the import trade of these countries, and now that Japan itself is to have much
less heavy industry, no armaments industry, and no aircraft industry, it is obvious
32

=== Page 395 === (confidence 1.00)
that the market in Japan in the future for most of the United Kingdom exports
mentioned above will be very much less than in the past, while for some it will have
disappeared. It seems almost certain also that the new Japan, for many years to
come, will not be able to afford the import of other goods formerly obtained from
the United Kingdom, for example high-grade woollen and worsted, cotton, and
linen fabrics, paper, leather goods, and expensive foods and liquors, which together
were of an annual average value of over a million £ sterling in the years 1930
to 1939.
89. On the other hand, in the case of some of the exports mentioned in the
first part of the preceding paragraph, United Kingdom exporters may perhaps
benefit in the future from the absence of German competition. Germany's exports
to Japan, in the five years 1935 to 1939, were of an average annual value of £81
millions, and her principal exports to Japan were much the same as those of the
United Kingdom, namely machinery and other manufactures of iron and steel,
electrical apparatus, and dyes and chemicals. Of the European countries, Germany
was the principal competitor of the United Kingdom in trade with Japan, before
1939.
90. In paragraph 2 (Part I) it was suggested that the process of reconstruction
and new development in Japan might bring with it opportunities for British trade.
Provided that the United Kingdom can supply the goods, and at prices competitive
with those of American manufacturers, opportunities may, I think, occur in con-
nection with the rehabilitation of the Japanese railway and tramway systems, the
coal-mining and other mining industries, electricity generating installations, and
merchant shipping, and possibly also in connection with the improvement and
expansion of the farming and forestry industries.
91. If large quantities of iron and steel, produced in Japan, could be used for
reconstruction purposes, and if the levels at which the Japanese machine-tools
industry and other industries concerned in the production of machinery, railway
rolling-stock, etc., are to operate in future were sufficiently high, it would be
possible for most of the necessary replacement and repair of the Japanese railway
tracks and rolling-stock, coal-mining machinery and equipment, merchant shipping,
etc., to be effected in the course of the next few years without the import of iron
and steel, machinery, etc., from abroad. Coal production in Japan however is
not, I think, likely to increase quickly enough to allow of a large output of iron
and steel in Japan in the near future, even if a large output were permitted. And
even if coal production did quickly increase, it will be necessary for increasing
amounts of coal, and of iron and steel also, to be allocated to many other industries,
including the industries that can produce goods for export. There may therefore
be opportunities for the export, from the United Kingdom, of some finished or
semi-finished products, or parts of them, in connection with the rehabilitation of
the Japanese railways, coal mines, etc. Railway, tramway, mining, and electricity
generating equipment has been supplied from the United Kingdom to Japan in
the past, and Japanese shipbuilders also obtained from the United Kingdom
supplies of mechanical equipment of various kinds, and furnishings for passenger
vessels.
92. The plans being made for improvement and expansion of the Japanese
farming and forestry industries have been mentioned in paragraphs 4 and 9 in
Part I. Japanese agriculture is already to a small extent mechanized. Small
pumps for irrigation purposes, other machines driven by oil engines or electric
power, and tractors, of Japanese manufacture, are in use. There is a movement
towards increased mechanization of agriculture, and the Japanese Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry has appointed a Farming Mechanization Committee
33

=== Page 396 === (confidence 1.00)
consisting of scientists, technicians, and farmers' representatives, to investigate
the subject. The improvement of present methods of irrigation and the reclama-
tion of considerable areas of land for crop growing will involve the use of more
machines. In the forestry industry at present there is need for replacement and
repair of worn out and damaged mechanical equipment, and there will be need
for new equipment as the industry expands. It is possible that the iron and steel
and metal-working industries in Japan, at their future levels, may not be able to
supply, at the same time, the requirements of the farming and forestry industries
and the requirements of other essential industries.
93. The import and export trade of the new Japan will obviously be carried on
less with the United Kingdom and more with the other members of the British
Commonwealth than was the case before the war. The United Kingdom, how-
ever, should benefit from this to some extent as an entrepôt for trade between
Japan and other members of the Commonwealth, and should benefit still more
in other ways which I have tried to indicate in the following paragraphs.
B. INVISIBLE TRADE
94. It will be from invisible trade, I think, and particularly from the activities of
British banking, insurance, and shipping companies, rather than from merchandise
trade, that the United Kingdom will benefit when normal commercial intercourse
between Japan and other countries has been restored.
95. British banking and insurance companies were well represented in Japan
before the war. Their high reputation enabled them to maintain their position
in Japan in spite of many difficulties created for them by the then militaristic
Japanese authorities, and they earned considerable profits although they had to
compete with several large Japanese banking and insurance companies. Many
of the latter were organs either of the Japanese Government (as in the case of the
Yokohama Specie Bank) or of Zaibatsu institutions such as the Mitsui, Mitsubishi,
and Sumitomo combines, and they engaged in banking and insurance activities
not only in Japan itself but in most countries with which Japan traded. In the
new Japan, one can expect that the difficulties formerly imposed on British banking
and insurance companies by the Japanese authorities will have disappeared. The
semi-government Yokohama Specie Bank and the Mitsui, Mitsubishi, and other
Zaibatsu institutions whose subsidiary companies were formerly such powerful
competitors of British banking and insurance companies in Japan and in other
parts of the world, have already been liquidated or are in process of liquidation.
Japanese competition in the fields of banking and insurance should therefore be
very much less in the future than in the past. It is satisfactory to be able to
record that the two British banking companies that operated in Japan before the
war have already been able to re-open offices in Japan and to resume business
within certain limits, and that a number of British insurance companies also are
already again represented, jointly, in Japan by a group of five British insurance
agents who were resident in Japan before the war and who have recently returned
to Japan. Another source of profit from invisible trade with Japan was chartere
accounting. The only chartered accountants in the Japanese territories, before
the war, were representatives of two London firms of chartered accountants.
Their services were greatly in demand not only by British commercial companies
but by commercial interests of other nationalities also, and British chartered
accountants should be able to operate profitably in Japan again, when the Japanese
economy is further on the way to recovery.
96. The largest profits for the United Kingdom from invisible trade, not only
as a result of the eventual resumption of merchandise trade between Japan and
34

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
other countries, but as a result also of the almost total destruction, during the
war, of the Japanese merchant shipping fleet, are likely to be earned, I think, by
British merchant shipping. Rehabilitation of the Japanese economy will no doubt
include rehabilitation, to some extent, of the Japanese mercantile marine. To
what extent has not yet been decided ; but it seems a safe assumption that British
passenger and cargo liner, and tramp shipping, will not have to operate in the
future, as in the past, in conditions of severe competition from Japanese merchant
shipping on all trade routes to and from Japan and in the world carrying trade
generally. The overseas trade of the new Japan will obviously be very much less
than that of the former Japanese Empire; but if the policy of the rehabilitation
of a self-supporting economy for Japan is carried out, Japan will require imports,
on a considerable scale, of the foodstuffs and the raw materials in which the country
is deficient, and these imports will have to be balanced, as far as it may be possible
for Japan to balance them, by exports. The sea routes along which these imports
and exports will be carried will be mainly those between Japan and North America,
and Japan and Europe, the Middle East, India, Malaya, and Australia and New
Zealand ; and also the routes between Japan and China and South East Asia,
if and when there has been sufficient improvement in economic conditions in
China, Indo-China, Siam, the Netherlands East Indies, and the Philippine Islands,
to allow of a regular exchange of merchandise between these countries and Japan.
97. Until 1939, the vessels of seven British passenger and cargo liner companies,
and British tramp shipping, carried passengers and cargo on all the routes men-
tioned in the preceding paragraph, both between Japan and the territories named,
and between ports on the various routes ; but no fewer than thirteen Japanese
passenger and cargo liner companies also maintained services over the same routes,
and their vessels, and those of Japanese tramp shipping companies, carried much
more of the total traffic to and from Japan, and between ports, than did the vessels
of the British companies. On other routes over which cargo was carried to and
from Japan in the past, and will probably be carried again in the future, namely
the routes between Japan and East, South, and West Africa, and the east and
west coasts of South America, one of the largest Japanese passenger and cargo
liner companies maintained regular services, but no regular services were main-
tained, on these routes, by British companies. No vessels other than Japanese
were allowed to call at ports in the Japanese Mandated Islands in the Pacific, and
Japanese vessels had almost a monopoly of the carrying trade on the short sea routes
between Japan and the Loo-Choo Islands, Formosa, North China, Manchuria,
Korea, and Eastern Siberia.
98. If the Japanese economy is to be restored, Japan must import, as in the
past, considerable quantities of phosphate rock, for conversion into phosphatic
fertilizers. The nearest sources of supply of phosphate rock, for Japan, are the
phosphate islands of the Pacific, and many of these islands are in the Loo-Choo
group and in the former Japanese Mandated Territory. From Angaur Island,
in the latter Territory, the import of phosphate rock into Japan has already been
resumed, and if the plans, mentioned in paragraph 4 (Part I) for increased
agricultural production in Japan mature, larger quantities of phosphate rock, than
in the past, may be imported into Japan. British shipping will presumably not
be excluded, as it was before, from participation in most of this trade. At the
moment, it is not possible to foresce whether any regular exchange of trade is
likely to take place in the future between Japan and Formosa, North China,
Manchuria, Korea, and Eastern Siberia, nor whether (the future level of the
Japanese shipping industry being still undecided), Japanese vessels will ply between
Japan and these territories. British merchant shipping is already carrying a large
proportion of the merchandise at present being imported into and exported from
Japan. Approximately one half of the salt cargoes, imported mainly from the
35

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
Red Sea area, which have now totalled over 400,000 tons, have been carried to
Japan in British ships. Contracts have been made for further salt cargoes of about
400,000 tons, also mainly from the Red Sea area, and United Kingdom vessels
will probably carry a large part of these cargoes also. Present indications are
that salt from the Red Sea area will continue to be imported into Japan, for some
years to come, at a rate of from 800,000 to 900,000 tons annually. A reliable
estimate is that British ships have carried about two-thirds of all commercial
cargo carried to Japan in the last eighteen months. British shipping companies,
like British banking and insurance companies, already have their representatives
in Japan, six companies being represented at present by nine resident British
subjects. There are also resident in Japan, at present, four representatives of
the Ministry of Transport who energetically supervise and assist the operations
of British shipping.
99. The probability that there will be a larger field in the future, than in the
past, for investments by United Kingdom companies in industrial enterprises in
Japan has been mentioned in paragraph 76 of Part II. The extent to which
it may be possible for United Kingdom companies to exploit this field, if it is
in fact found to exist in the new Japan, will, of course, depend on how far funds
available for foreign investment, which are at present lacking, may become avail-
able in the United Kingdom. In addition to the investment in industrial enter-
prises in Japan, there was, up to 1941, considerable investment, by United Kingdom
residents, in the various loans issued by the Japanese Government and municipalities
and by Japanese electric light and power companies. United Kingdom holdings
of these loans have been estimated to amount to some £43 millions and the interest
earned in the United Kingdom from these investments appears to have amounted,
during the few years ended in 1941, to approximately £2 millions per annum.
It is unlikely that Japan will be able to resume interest payments for a long time
to come ; but it would be in keeping with the Japanese character to resume
payments as soon as foreign exchange becomes available for the purpose.
TokYo,
November, 1947.
Crown Copyright Reserved
LONDON : PUBLISHED BY HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE
To be purchased directly from H.M. Stationery Office at the following addresses
York House, Kingsway, London, W.C.2; 13a Castle Street, Edinburgh, 2;
39-41 King Street, Manchester, 2; I St. Andrew's Crescent, Cardiff;
Tower Lane, Bristol, 1: 80 Chichester Street, Belfast
OR THROUGH ANY BOORSELLER
1948
Price 9d. net.
PrHated UNDER THE AUTHORITY OF HIS MAJESTY'S STATIONERY OFFICE
by Cheltenham Press Ltd.
(1685) We.2750/1780 2,000 10-48 C.P.Ltd. 1/490,0
S.O. Code No. 51. 209

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
A - Mr. Al11son
DATE: October 23, 1948
TO
FROM
FE - Mr. Butterworth
Possible Inclusion of Japan Within the Orbit of ECA Operations
SUBJECT:
8
6
I happened to be in the Acting Seoretary's outer office
4.50/10-23
this morning when Mr. William Y. Elliott came in to see
him and we had a talk about Japan. As you know, he is
a prominent employee of the Foreign Affairs Committee of
the House. He proposes to send me shortly for review an
analysis or the Japanese situation, whioh I believe he
already disoussed with Mr. Kennan, who I think advised
lo the RMyR
him not to press the matter at this time. Elliott 1s
obvlously plagued with the idea of coordinating the
Korean, Chinese and perhaps, Japanese programs, and in
348
this connection he asked me the direct question as to
whether I would favor when the ECA legislation was
sommended for Korea to inolude the placing of the Japan-
ese program under ECA as well. I refused to answer this
question, indicating it was a highly complicated problem
which had to be considered by various offices in the
Department and later I informed Mr. Lovett of Elliott's
query and my reply. Incidentally, in putting his query
to me Elllott drew upon the analogy of Germany.
I think it behooves NA to give this matter serious
consideration and formulate its views on the advantages
and disadvantages of such a course of action, having in
mind the recent National Security Council decisions. The
question is almost certain to be raised in Mr. Eaton's
Committee, no doubt in other quarters as well; in any
case it is a pertinent question.
cc: NA - Mr. Fearey
89
NA - Mr. Green
CA - Mr. Magill
/
Artl
CONFIDENTIAL
18-2348
Jat

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
October 28, 1948
S/P r. Kennan:
As you know, this Cover unent proposed in May 1947 to the FEC
a paper which is called FEc 230, setting forth in great detdl & polin
for the dissolution of excessive concentrations of economic power in
Japan. In the course of time this paper has become regarded in this
Department and in the Department of the Army as providing certain ex-
treme and unwise procedures and as ein: unduly deta led in the cir
cumstances. The paper was never acopted by the  LC and for many months
has received no encoura ement there fran us. It is felt that in the
meantime events have overtaken the need for any further policy directive
to SCAP fron the FEC on this subject. Te fundamental objoctive of
eliminating undesira le excessive concentrations of economic power in
Japan has already been given to SCAP in his post-surrender direotive
from this Government and in the post-surrender policy paper which was
adopted in 1947 by the FEC.
I believe that in view of the fact that FEc 230 no longer repres
this Government's policy, some appropriate action should be taken to
change its technical status in the Fht, namely its status as an
expression of U. S. Government policy. It is the opinion of the Legal
Adviser that such a paper may not be withdrawn from the FEC by the
member who introduced it without the consent of the Commission. Con-
sequently, it appears that the appropriate medium for changing the
paper's technical status would be a statement by the U. S. amber that
this Government withdraws its support of the paper for reasons stated
Such a statement has been drafted and is attached. Its text has been
cleared within the Department and with the Department of the Army.
I sliould a preciate your co ments as to the desirability of making
such a stateuent in the C and as to the timing thereof.
Attachnent:
Proposed tatement.
Charles E. Saltzman
cc: FE - ir. Butterworth
E - lr. Hitze
L
SECRET
11.
O:CFSaltzman;hjh

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
NAmJoan
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
FE - Mr. Butdrworth
DATE: October 29, 198
SUBJECT:
Possible Inclusfon of Japan within the Orbit of ECA
Operations.
With respect to your memorandum of October 23 on the above
subject, copy attached, I am enclosing a copy of a memorandum
on the same subject drafted in E for Mr. Nitze to send to
Mr. Saltzman. I underetand that when and if Mr. Nitze approves.
this memorandum a copy will be sent to you.
894.50/10-2
I have been thinking about this problem for some time as
Harry Labouisse mentioned to me in the hall the other day the
possible Congresslonal interest in this matter, somewhat along
the same line as Mr. Elliott outlined to you. The E memorandum
appears to set forward the various considerations in a straight-
forward manner and it closes with the recommendation that Mr.
Saltzman call a meeting of representatives from FE, O and OFD
to discuss the matter. I think we should agree to such a
-2948
meeting, but I believe we should be very careful and be sure
that the Department thinking on the matter is sound before we
go ahead as suggested in the E memorandum with consultations
with the Army Department, SCAP and ECA. I should 1ike to draw
special attention to paragraph 3 on page 2 with regard to the
difriculties in the way of carrying out this project, and
particularly to sub-paragraph 3b. I concur in the opinion
expressed in paragraph 2a on page 1 of the E memorandum that
transfer of responsibility for the Japanese aid program to ECA
might make more easy the general policy proposed in paragraph 8
of NSC l3/2 concerning a shift of operating responsibilities
to the Japanese Government and the consequent withdrawal of
SCAP to a supervisory position.
C
Go I
C
C
wa like t
kaas mure
94
FE:NA:JMA111son/pm
CONFIDENTIAL
-2948

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.93)
Uaw B- I pegened thei wens ou noey ou yon se, when this
fiiar cone donn tor learone. Rullir resaled it a
hoen, we he brd ther th le ot the btte
file bad bem reaeined. the hee moe starled it a
: NA - Mr. Bishop
DATE: November 4, 148
th kMR L
FROM : NA - R. Fearey AA 
suject: Clearance of Attached Letter Relating to FEC-230
I underetand from Mr. Rudlin in Mr. Saltzman's office
that this letter has been prepared at Mr. Saltzman's request
to meet what he understands to be Mr. Butterworth's desire
that a letter along these lines be sent to Mr. Draper. On
looking 1t through the following considerations accur to me:
8
6
There 1s no doubt but that it would be desirable to know
4.
precisely what the Deconcentration Review Board'e terms of
reference are, and just whet standards are being applied by
Ci
1t in Japan, so that we would be in no danger of aa having
C
to confess ignorance on any phase of the problem in the FEC
or before Congress. On the other hand, there are several
reasons why it might be considered inadvisable and unnecessary
to press for further detailed knowledge on this problem at
this time.
4
The first is the danger of "rocking the boat". Since
8
the trend of developments during recent months in the decon-
centration field has been entirely in the right direction it
would seem undesirable to do anytring which might reserse
that trend. Too searching an inquiry into the DRB's terms
of reference and actions might create the impression in
Tokyo that we disapprove of its recent activities.
The second factor is the difficulty which those responsible
for the deconcentration program in Japan would be likely to
experience in telling us more precisely than they have to
C
date what criteria they plan to apply in implementing the
U.
program. Execution of a program of this type necessarily
involves the exercise of individual judgment and discretion
C
varying with the particular circumstances of each case.
A third factor 1s that SCAP might with considerable
justification claim that we were encroaching upon his im-
plementing and operating responsibilities to an unwarranted
extent. We have never, to my knowledge, required such
detailed information regarding his implementation of any
6
other of the occupation objectives. (se nt pa  lttr)
y
It
d.d
122
1-448

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
It seems questionable also whether we do have any
real need for more precise and detailed knowledge in this
field than we already have from the DRB's recently published
"four principles", the texts of the deconcentration legis-
lation, and accounts given by recent visitors to Japan, such
as Dr. Reid. By and large, I should think we already possess
all the information anybody could reasonably expect us to
have regarding the fine points of implementation of suoh a
comprehensive program in Japan.
My personal view in light of the above is that we
already have sufficient informa tion on the matter for all
probable needs and that it would be better not to request
the large amount of additional detailed information recommended
in the attached draft letter. I know that Mr. Butterworth
feels differently on the subject, however, and you may wish
to talk to him before taking action on the letter. If a
letter of this type is sent, I think the information requested
should be much more limited in scope, and that assurance
should be given in any telegram to SCAp that we support his
recent actions, underatood based on the DRB's recommendations,
in the field.
RAr
NA:RFearey:clh

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.96)
file here
Lap conomce
relvery
TO
EPMrs. Selma Kallis
DATE: November 16, 1948
FROM :
SUBJECT:
Comments on memorandum, October 18, 1948, from Mr. R. Re1d
of CAD to the Under Secretary of the Army on the subject
of the Japanese recovery program
Files
Central
RM/R 894.50/11-1
This Document Must Be Returned to
The memorandum indicated avove suggests approache
which should be taken when the request for additional
¿ROA funds for Japanese recovery cones up for hearings
in the 8lst Congress. It assuunes that Congress will
look upon Occupation-imposed controls as hindrances to
Japanese recovery and proceeds to outline approaches
on srecific questions which it expects will arise in
the hearings. It conclude: with the su gestion that a
new American policy statement on Japan should be made
in order to clarify our objectives and to remove
uncertainties for 4mericans, Japanese and foreign
business men.
Recent.S. elections and the deteriorating Chine
situation may in one way or another influence the
648
acceptance of these u~ ested approaches. Apart from
these possibilities, owever, there are additional con-
siderations set forth velow which should not be over-
looked in presentin to Congress issues involved in
the Japanese econgmy.
The Dicometration Tire guue
"ith respect to the (possiple Jongressional criticism
that the deconcentration program may wreck the industrial
potential of Japan, the memorandum su gests that Congress
should be promised that the Japanese antitrust laws will
be anended "to ensure that they do not require conditions
notably at variance with tnose implicit in comparable
American le islation". (p. 4) The use of statutory
provisions in force in the United States as measures of
39
the appropriateness of le islation for Japan is unreal-
istic. ihe problems created by the structure and tradi-
tions of the Japanese economy are so completely differ-
ent from anthing that the united States has faced —
in terms of the de ree of concentration of economic
8
C.L
power and the misuse of that power — that an attempt
/6
to jud e wnich remedies Congress mi ht devise if it
were confronted with the same situation here would
seem to ce lar ely fruitless. Our own legislation in
5
this field, fortunately for us, need only address itself
to deviations from a lon~ tradition of free competitive
enterprise wich oes back at least as far as the ancient
co. mon-law uoctrines forbidding restraints on trade.
11-1698
U.S. le islation can oe written in eneral terms and
its interpretation and enforcement largely left to the

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
discretion of courts and commissions which are steeped
in that competitive tradition. In addition to the
support which conmon-law precedents provide, our statutes
are supplemented by constant review of business behavior
by Congressional investigations and private studies.
It will probably be a long time, if ever, before free
enterprise receives compara:le spontaneous support in
Japan. Ihe proposition that what will preserve competi-
tive enterprise here will pe sufficient - in the form
of bare statutor: provisions - to reverse a quite
different tradition in Japan seem hi ghly suspect. The
use of U.. laws as a yardstick is rendered even more
invalid by the probabiiity that, thanks to the strength
of oir democratic institutions nd the check provided
by a stron" lator movement anu a large and stable middle
class, we cen tolerate consistently with democracy a
higher de rue of concentration of economic power in
private hands than any other country. ven so, Congress
i: findin it increasin ly necessary to devise new
measures to check the concentration of economic power,
such as the requirement the: surplus government property
be aisposed of in a manner w ich will "strengthen and
preserve he competitive position of small business
concerns in an economy of free enterprise."
ihe factors above are also relevant to other of
the su gested approa:hes. The memorandum believes the
ongress may criticize the failure to provide a "fair"
return to the owners of sequestered securities. (p. 5)
Standards appropriate to this country's objectives in
Japan and measures to fit the unique economic circum-
stances in Japan have to be used, and not those which we
are accustomeu to in merica. imilarly, such standards
and measures will need to be used if the objective of
"the broadest possitl tock ownership in Japan" is to
be achieved. hile it is undoubtedly true, as the memor-
andu.. points out, that economic recovery will provide
the "best chance of ac ievin: the desired broad distri-
bution," (p. 5) genuine efforts by the Japanese Govern-
ment to facilitate the availability of funds to the little
men for stqck purchaseg have not peen made.
Fareigndueetinuati.
The memorandum believes that opening of Japanfor
foreign investments would prove helpful to the Japanese
economy, provided hat adequate safe uards are made against
speculators (p. 8). Dy all means, such safeguards are
necessary. But so are measures to assure equal protection
to Japanese as well as foreign investors. Moreover, it
is essential that the forein investments are not accompanied
by terms w ich are likely to become the subject of public
resentnent or detrimental to relations between Japan and
foreign countries. Such investments are those which restrain
competition in international trade or strengthen and
extend international private monopolies and cartels.
ITP:IR::iRudolph:bw

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.95)
jil
TANDARD FORM NO.4
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Me
ndUm : UNITED STATES GOVEINMENT
DATE: 12/14/48
: FE - Mr. Butterworth
TO
SUBJECT :
You may find Tokyo's dispatch
FW-89
No. 742, November 22, which Mr. Green
has sum arized, of interest. The
bulky enclosures have been kept in
NA.
25
ad
2
2
7
FE:NA:MWB1shop/pm
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.96)
fill
STAIDANß FORANO. 
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: MA - Mr. Bishop
DATE: December 13, 1948
FROM : NA - Mr. Green 
sUBJECT: Attached Tokyo'& 742
Here 1s a lengthy report by Mr. Lawrence on his trip
to Hokkaido, partioular attention being paid to looal
Communist activities.
The report argues that potential sources of friotion
between the Japanese and the Soviets could be removed
My
appreoiably by the inclusion within Japan of Yetorofu,
Kunashiri and Habomai Islands. This could be Justified
on the grounds that all these islands have long been
Japanese possessions, a fact which was confirmed 1n l855
by the Treaty of Shimoda. Hokkaido with its 3t million
population and undeveloped resources offers distinot
8
possibilities for development, which is currently being
impeded through reluctance of capital to invest in, and
reluctance of Japanese to migrate to, an island which
is considered in the immediate path of Soviet expansionism.
Mr. Lawrence recommends that eome overt action on the part
of the United States, such as the establishment of a
United States consulate in Hokkaido or of the construotion
of permanent air bases, would go far in allaying these
fears. Admittedly the amount of coneular work would be
small, but the consulate could serve as an observation
post of the Japanese 1sland where Communism presents its
greatest threat.
The revision of the National Public Service Law has
been favorably received by almost all groups except
1
organized labor. The general attitude in Hokkaido
appeared to be that labor was given too many privileges
and that the occupation should now rectify its mistakes
before a peace treaty is signed. Many moderates in the
trade union movement believe that union activities should
be confined to economic matters and not include political
objectives.
Communist activity in Hokkaido 1s at present direoted
from Tokyo but there are indioations that the JCP is being
reorganized to give the Hokkaido branch far greater control.
In the conneotion the feeling seems to be general in Hokkaido
that the Central Government fails to take into consideration
such conditions in Hokkaido as the severe weather which
makes
PIOENTIN

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTI1
- 2 -
makes work harder and requires a more generoue distribution of
fuel, food and clothing to Hokkaido workers. Disillusionment
in intellectual circles over the revelations of the Showa Denko
scandal has given the Communiete fertile ground for claims that
capitalism 1s a corrupt system. The Communists are also taking
advantage of the GHQ ban on fraternization. As one high-ranking
Japanese official stated, the Japanese are supersensitive on the
subjeot of race (shades of the Exclusion Act), and their pride
has been injured by the attitude of the ocoupation toward social
contacts between Americans and Japanese. In oontrast, repatriates
from Soviet areas have made much of the faot that there is, allegedly,
no racial disorimination in the USSR.
Military Government officials state that the Japanese police
system 1s far too expensive and 1nefficient. It 1s their view
that the Police Law has been based too much on the federalized
Amerioan system without any effort to adapt it to looal conditions.
The Commanding Officer of the Hokkaido MG team remarked that, as
a result, his team 1s often obliged to ignore the Police Law in
order to get action.
Mr. Lawrence gives a number of illuminating examples of how
uncertainties over reparations, deconcentration and the economio
purge are adversely affecting business recovery in Hokkaido. His
conclusions on these and other pointe closely conform to recommenda-
tions which we have made in the NSC paper.
Suggest oirculating this to FE.
FE:NA:MGreen:clh

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.96)
1.35.c
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
Green TnlbeD Foldex
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Nov. 22, 1948
Date
Tolye
From
Enclosuxe 
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Stare/Sow
4.3.26
Authority
Date
<f
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
Cxcen Tabbeo Foloen
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
No0.22, 1948
Date
Sub-Enclosure No. 1 to Tokyo's ove
From
To
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
Stare/S
4.2.76
Authority
Date
C-
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117(2-72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.95)
1.4.C
ACCESS RESTRICTED
The item identified below has been withdrawn from this file:
Gxeen TabbeD Folder
File Designation
WITHDRAWAL NOTICE
Date
Enclosuce Ne.2 to Merionnaoum
From
To
JONYO'S YZ
In the review of this file this item was removed because access to it is
restricted. Restrictions on records in the National Archives are stated
in general and specific record group restriction statements which are
available for examination. The item identified above has been withdrawn
because it contains:
Security-Classified Information
Otherwise Restricted Information
STATe/So
4.2·26
Authority
Date
cy
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
GSA FORM 7117 (2-72)
GPO : 1973 O - 503-659

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.92)
9
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 DIVISION OF
 T ADVNORILAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
FOR JAYA.
DEC - 9 1948
..0. 742
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
CONTTUD.TTAL
To , er 22, 1948.
(For separt..ent use ony)
Juuject:  crv tions vurin, an orientation rip to nokkaido Con-
cernin Jurrent rolitical  conomic Conditions.
he monoratle
The Jecret ry  tate,
van.i.ton.
ir:
Files,
Central
1 have we honor to ref'r o tnis is ion's despatch no. 307 of
32
ay 27, 1948 witn regard to rienttion trips by orficers of this
2
1
.ission to outlyin districts of japan and to enclose a copy of a
memorandun prep red by orein ervice fficer .. Henry LANCL, Jr.,
894.50/11
containing his ooservations and results of interviews during a visit
to nokkaido in ti.e latter art of Jepteaber 14.
The subjects covcred in vhe aeaorandwn are varied, but on this
trip special attention was aid to local coauaunist activities,
soviet-merican relations, problns o labor unions and management
(inciuain t.e proposed revision of the vational ublic Service Law)
deterrents to ro uction increases, and lifficulties of educational
institutions. It is su: ested that this despatch be read in con-
2
junction with section vi1 of despatch no. 307 of nay 27, describing
a previous visit by Forei n service officer David M. BANE, to
2
lokkaido, and with aespatcnes nos. 299 o1 . ay 24, 321 of June 3, and
8
362 of June 17 reportin ouservations made on a trip by r. Lawrence
to ryushu.
Upon analysis, much o. the inrerar tion contained in the
eiclosure reveal: a strikin: dissimil rity in the psychology of the
people and in the physical invironaent of rokkaido as compared with
the rest or Japan. Ihis is not unexpected in that Hokkaido is a
rel tively new country, havin been first colonized by the Japanese
about 80 years ago. ith no traditions or customs of lon; standing,
894.50
the inhabitants are apparently anenable to new ideas, and both
democracy and communisn have opportunity to flourish.
The proxinity or lokkaido to Joviet areas pives special
C
advantages to communism, cut there is reason to pelieve that from 
a long-range point of view denocratic institutions will take firm
に
On the otner hand, however, the need for sustained efforts to
convince the eo le of iokiaido of the auvantages as well
the
responsibilities of democracy is clearly apparent.
Joir ibneTlat
DE
E.0 11552. S) or (D
NND760175
By 2.  62077

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's o. 742,
November 22, 1948.
JOnr IDENTIAL
-2-
Inclusion Within pan 1 Jertain inor Southern
Kurile Islands to enove rotential sources of
rriction ith oviets.
Tension is believed te be the reatest in the vicinity of Nemuro
where a nuer of Japanese ihin toats h: ve been seized by the
Soviets urin their a ge throu,i the narrow waters between the
nainland  the islands or hunashiri ani the liabomai group. The
possioi ity o lon -continued friction could undoubtedly be
allevi ted  awardin. ll islands south of Yetorofu Straits to Japan.
These islands are now under oviet control. shikotan Island and the
Habomai islands hove or many yeare been Ja anese possessions and have
never been the sut cct of treaties. The Southern Kuriles, which
to etier with the islands just mentioned, co prise the islands south
f the Yetorofu traits have been Je:nese poscessions since early
days, a fact which was confirled in 1 5s by the Treaty of Shimoda.
pelief tht mited tates ill Abandon lokkaido
in Jase of ar
There is widespread belief n  kkaido that war between the
United States and the oviet nion is inninent and that the United
states woli imlediately apan on okaido to its fate. At the same
tine there is seenin ly no ouot in  eo: le's linds but that the
United states vould te the ul iaate victor in such a war. The idea
of withdrawal fron nokkeido, even thou,h only a temporary measure,
has become so deeply e ibedded in the consciousness of the people,
however, that develo ment f rich natural resources in that region
is seriously impeded tnrourh hesitation on the .art of business men
and investors to provide the necessary capital.
Estab ishnent of Consulate in hokkaido
Some overt ai ilaediate  etion on tne part of the United States
to allay the fears of tnsiness men, bankers and investors as well as
ti.ose or t c eneral pop ulation appears hirhly desirable. It has
been sug ested that a "consular" branch of this ..ission, in its
capacity as Diplon:tic Jection, eneral Headquarters, Supreme
Comvnander for the  llied rowers, should be established in Sapporo at
the earliest practicable tile in order to denonstrate concrete evi-
dence of the interest of the United States in Hokkaido.
ihite adnittedly the ount of consular work would be small,
Sapporo could serve as a listenin post and vould permit close
observation o polit ical ctivities in nokkaido, particularly in view
of its  roxility to the Joviet Union, the increasing interest in
comunisn there, and the possibility that Hokkaido may becone the
center o' comaunist affairs in Japan.
It ni ht also be vorthwnile to ive consideration to the
eventual utilization of nerican funds, voth private nd covernmental,
in liokkaido. Its coal, timber, ish, meat, and dairy roducts would
appear to be capable of extensive develoment, thereby assisting in
a reduction of the burden on American taxpayers by helpin Japan toward
its roal oi self-sufficiency.
Uppo ition of Labor to evision of National Iublic
Service Law.
The proposed revision of the vational .utlic Service Law is
a subject of intense interest nong the labor leaders in hokkaido. As
is well

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyo's No. 742,
November 22,1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-3-
is well known, the comnunists have centered their attack upon
Ordinance No. 201, tie interim measure prohibiting strikes and
collective bargaining on the :art of government workers, on the
grounds that it is "unconstitutional and undeaocratic." Opposition
to Urdinance ..o. 20l has been nore aggressive in Hokkaido than else
where. ost of the oppo ition anong railway employees is comprised
of youths of 19 to 24 years of age, many of whom have been inspired
by the comaunists in the Government ailway Workers' Union. That
communist activities in this union may have reached their peak,
however, would see. likely in view of the swing back to a more
moderate osition at the Union's extraordinary national convention
held recently. rive copies of an editorial from the ippon Times of
2 Uctober 9, Lyl8 describing this victory o the moderates is enclosed.
Non-co  munist labor leaders have little objection to the pro-
hibition a ain t strikes, ut side unanimously with the communists
in ur in tht overnnent workers be ermitted some form of
collective bargaining. Phey state tit if collective bargaining
aong  overnent vorrers is to ve untirely outlawed, labor leaders
and workers will ccone jiscouraged to the point where they will
question the future vlue  having any unions anong government
workers. orkers in rivate industry also ex ressed some apprehension
that t.e ctivities of thcir unions lay be curtailed.
in contrast to the r etions of lebor, the proposed revision of
ti.e National .ublic Service aw nas been favorably received by
bankers, usiness men, nd educators. The reneral attitude in Hokkaido
appeared to be that the ecupation erred in its beginning by granting
lapor too nany rivileges nd that the Jccupation should now rectify
its nistakes before : peace treaty is signed.
management and Labor are peinnin to tecomize
Need for Jooveration
there i, pod evipence tat  on labor leaders in lokkaido there
are nany ino telieve tht union etivit ies sh uld be conrined to
econonie atters ni  ot include oli ical cbjectives, and that the
ri, hts ranted to 1 bor ar al o accoi anied by responsibilities.
There is : lso evident le realization on the part of both management
and labor unions that cu ital ni labor mu st cooperate if Japan is to
be rehabilitated, althouh oth are apt to te suspicious of each other.
The constructive elelents in he labor unien movenent, therefore, need
encourage rent and aid in their difficult up-hill fight against
comnunism, not:withst ding that they are indicapped by lack of the
organizational skill and planning o the coaunists as vell as by a
lack of educational naterial an facilities vith which to disseninate
construetive data on: the bers of their unions.
jorit assive oward Jomaunism but
fouth attracted
The fear of the popl tion of nokkaido that, if the communists
acquire power they will retaliate against those who now oppose their
activities, as resulted in a generally passive attitude toward
comnuni. However, many youn eople have succumbed to propaganda
to the effect that they should join the Comunist rarty if they wish
to insure t.eir fut ure advancement. epatriates appear to be
returnin fro oviet areas increasin ly indoctrinated in the tenets
of conununism, cut this is counter-balanced by the substantial number
who are violently anti-comaunistic.
CONFIDENTIAL
In the

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 742
November 22, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
In the University of okkaido, communism is growing among the
students ana faculty. student s claim that the so-called Showa Denko
scandal, in which sole of the hi hest leaders in financial, business
and overnment circles have been indicted for accepting bribes (this
ission's despatch no. 667 of Cctober 11, 1948), has revealed the
flaws of capitalism. In consequence they are studying communism to
discover hat it has to offer. Organized comaunist activities in
universities have recently been outlawed by the inistry of Education,
a step which should be heluful in overcoming the insidious workings of
comunist cells in educational institutions.
Jlain that Uccupation Unleased So munism Upon Japan
Ihe Occupation is blaned by moderate labor leaders for unleashing
co..munism upon the Japanese. it is therefore expected that the
Occupation ould as ist in linin: ways of curbing communist activities.
The need for suppressing comnunist activities is especially evident in
Hokkaido where their tempo is hi hest in mines and railways, two of the
key industries essential in the rehabilitation of Japan. While
aunitting the effectiveness of comunists in hanpering recovery,
ilitary Government official suspect that nagenent at times has a
tendency to ascribe many of its difficulties to communists in order to
cover its ovn deficiencies. . nagenent's problems are many and are
magni ied by the astuteness of the comnunists in devisin, new problems
as fast as progress is mede in settling old ones.
Communist Lactics a opeals i hly ffective
The tactics used by the coununists in iokkaido are those with which
the world has uniortunately becone :ncreasingly aware. Despite their
relatively mall nuabers, communists have seized key positions and by
ti.eir alnost uncanny abi lity to malke potent a peals at a particular time,
win the support of large numbers of individuals. In liokkaido, Occupation
personnel are convinced that the comnunists are more successful in
reaching the rank nd file of labor than is the occupation. During the
year 1947 the conmunists concentrated upon lack of food as a major sub-
ject of propaganda. Now that the food situation has inproved, their
propa anda dwells upon te shorta e of coal for heating homes, a partic-
ularly persuasive peal in Hok aido becuse of its lon, cold winters.
The communists also tress the need for increased wages, completely
disregardin the financial straits o individual coapanies or of Japan.
.iners, railway workers, and prkers in general are easily susceptible
to this appeal, because of the uifficulty of acquiring even minimum
necessities unier present wage levels. As is well known, the comaunists
also fan the nationalistic feelings oi the Japanese in much the same ay
as did the militarists; they also stress examples of real or imagined
racial discriaination (local occupation rerulations regarding
fraternization are considered by the Japanese to be a forn of racial
discrimination). in contrast, re, orts by repatriates that there is no
racial i scrimination in Soviet tussia reacts greatly to the advantage
of the co:aaunists.
Heed for Adequate olice rorce, Froperly Armed and
quipped
As hac already been re orted regarding other areas of Japan (this
∴ission's despatch no. 536 of October 22, 1948), there was found in
Hokkaido considerable criticism of the reforned police system with its
emphasis on decentralization. in addition, it is clear that the present
police force is inadequate in nuaber, arms, equipment, and norale to
maintain
CONF IDENTIAL

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.94)
Tokyo's .lo. 742
November 22, 1918.
CONFIDEITIAL
-5-
maintain peace and order in the absence of Occupation troops. In our
opinion there is an urgent need to increase the number of police and to
ensure that they are adequately armed and equipped in the face of
possile increased covaunist-ins ired riots or other civil disorders.
Deterrents s. xuansion or Industry
-ince lesi poplation in Hoktaide  smaller than elsewhere
inflt that okkaido can assit in relieving the pressure of
population. as teen esti ated that with increased industrialization,
o lue coule support ome three million nore  eople. he stringent
Finaneiul poliey sf tae Jentral lovernnent, however, as well as fear that
Joviet ussia nay venturll tae ver Hokkaido, are it difficult to
expand imbustrially. in conce mence, clectric power nc raw material
s ortaces ar reaay developin. There is alco ddespread feeling in
hokkaico that Fail o ptere the reparations and decentralization
roblens serves as ueterront to cconomic rehabilisation y discouraging
initiative a furter Lamning. ne, as ha been repeatedly reported,
vny J anese  eople bulieve that u indiscrilinate urging of business
men also i.andicaps recovery.
inanciai lcs  ulents and
c  tutions
Jonversat ms wit te eer:  dents in okkaido surest that
the uirricultics   present-uay tulent's ire are not conducive to a
belier that c italisn wi help to urmount apan's roblens of
rehabi itation. .ost students re roreed to work in order to continue
their studies, n, a manal ator is enerally the only kind of work
ava: lable, may tudents are attracted to plac: market activities, a form
of occu ation which is et conducive towards building strong moral
qualities. he ost iscoura in aspect of education, aside from inroads
bein made by comunism, is the imited alount of financial aid which
schools and universities are ole to obtain. Yet, it is no exaggeration
to say that in   rin success or failure of Occupation objectives
will de pend upon no degree to wich it is possible to inculcate demo-
cratic ideas throuh uducation.
On the other hand, it wa: ene ira in: to find that many young men,
includin: labor lcaders, are rnestly seekin solutions to their problems
in s ite of great difficulties. wikewise, the awakening of women to new
responsibilities and interest in contlunity affairs is heartening.
Cooperation in encoura, ing these youn men and women on the part of many
nembers of scipol faculties was favorably connented upon by locel Military
Governnent officials, and the resident f okkaido University expressed
satisfaction at the spiritual revolution vilich he is convinced is in
progress.
Desire for Advice from Anerican Leaders
It was evident that there is an avid interest on the part of the people
of hokkaido to learn more about the United tates. While many students
desire to study in the inited states, they regard their chances in this
regard as saall iecause of the expenses involved. in lieu thereof, they
request ore Alerican literature and visits by well-known Americans in
various fields of endeavor. An intense desire on the part of Japanese
leaders to obtain the advice of the experienced Anerican officials was
also apparent.
Another

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's No. 742
November 22, 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL
-6-
Another point noted was that many Occupation officials in key
positions have apparently ceased to be objective and have developed set
ideas. While there is no doubt of the gratitude of the Japanese people
for American aid and guidance, patience is sonetimes worn thin by mis-
behavior of members of the Occupation forces and by the high standard of
living of Anericans in Japan. The co:munists, of course, take advantage
of both these points.
Visits to Industrial Organizations
r. Lawrence on his trip visited a number of basic industries,
incl ain: steel and chemical plants, a shipyard, a coal mine, a tannery,
and a milk processing plant. lecent reports prepared by the management
were obtained in most cases and the data contained in them used in the
preparation of the enclosed memorandum. roreover, the reports contain
detailed inrormation on faci itie: nd roduction which might prove to be
useful as reference material.
The attention o. the Department is especially invited to the
"Outline of nokkaido - Septeiber l94a" compiled by the Bank of Japan,
sapporo pranch, which contains statistics relating; to current economic
conditions in liokkaido. The reports are listed on pages 30 and 31 of
the enclosed memorandun and at least one copy of each report is attached
as an enclosure to the memoranuun.
Yours respectfully,
H. J. Jebald
Enclosures:
1. Henorandun dated Novenber 15, 1948,
together with its enclosures.
2. rive copies of editorial from the
Rippon Times of uctober 9, 1948.
800
WiLawrenceJr/eg
Original and hectoraph to Department.
CONFIDE.TIAL

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 742,
CONFIDENTIAL
November 22, 1948.
- A -
TABLE OF CONTENTS
to
LEMORANDUN
dated November 15. 1948.
Title: Observations Made as a Result of a Visit to Hokkaido by Foreign
Service Officer, . Henry LANCE, Jr., Concerning Current
rolitical and Economic Conditions.
Page No.
SOTION I - L.TRODUCTIO:
1
A.
reople and nvironment or Hokkaido piffer
Radically fron test of Japan.
1
S  -   :
2
A.
Awareness of sovict cnion Greater in Hokkaido
- Jonununist Activities increasing.
2
B. Tension Greatest in Neauro Area.
3
C. United tates to Abandon hokkaido in Case of Har
3
D. Attitude Toward Joununism
4
1. rassivity of majority of ropulation.
4
2. Repatrictes increasingly indoctrinated in
Comunisn ut o e Violently Anti-Communist.
5
3.
Interest in Comaunisn Increasin: Aunong
6
Student s.
4.
Students Clai. Showa Denko Scandal leveals
rlaws of Capitalism.
7
E. Communist Activities Lirected fro.: Toltyo.
8
F. ational rublic ervice Law.
8
1. Co aunists ppose evicion ci ational
ublic ervice Law.
8
2.
Discouragenent of Horkers ver uture of
Labor rovenent.
9
3.
Non-Coaunist Labor Leaders ess xtreme
10
but Urge Allowance of Jollective Bargaining.
14.
Opposition to ordinance Ho. 201 More
Aggressive in Hokkaido - Offenders ostly
11
Youths.
5.
ilarsh Conditions Force Anti-Communist
12
Workers to Adopt Comnunist-Like Tactics.
6.
Favorable Reaction to Revision of National
rublic Service Law in Circles Other Than Labor.
12
G. Effectiveness
CONF IDENTIAL

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 742,
CONFIDENTIAL
-B-
November 22, 1948.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
G. Lffectiveness of Communists in Thwarting
Recovery.
13
1. Communist Activities each reak in
Railways and ines.
13
2.
Connunist ctivities anper ecovery,
but also used as xcuse for anagenent's
Deficiencies.
14
H. Uccupation abor .olicies Unsound t Seginning
of uccu:ation.
15
I. rower f Jommunists.
15
1. Jomnanists xert ireat
ower sespite
Nunerical inferiority.
15
2.
Jivision  Opinion as to rolitical
Activities of Unions.
16
3.
intcllectual Comunists not posed to
rodction Increases.
17
J. Co munist rropaganda.
17
1. Need of Coal or lHeatin .nes a ajor
Communist rropa anda ubject.
17
2.
Nare Deands inspired by Jonununists
18
Unreaconable.
?. other rotent Sommunict Appeals.
19
Urgent ecessity of Adenuate rolice Force - roperly
Armed and quipped.
19
STIN III -  .:
20
A.
Hokkaido Able to u port arger ropulation if
Industrialized.
20
Need for telaxation of Government :olicy of
21
Financial Stringency.
C. Lack of Determination of teparations a seterrent
22
to cononic ehabilitation.
D. .ossible abotage in eparations heraal Electric
23
lant.
24
L. urge handicaps Japanese Lcononic Recovery.
24
F. Decentralization Adversely Affects roduction.
SECTION IV - DUCATION:
24
A. Student ife Hard - .ost tudents do rart-Time Work.
B. Importance
COFIDETIAL

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.93)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 742,
CONF IDENTIAL
- C -
November 22, 1948.
TABL F CONTENTS
Page No.
B. Iaportance of Youth and Monen to Future of Japan.
25
C. -piritual evolution d iled.
25
D. rinaicial vifficulties Lapede :ro ress of ducation.
26
E. -lec ion feor eabers of ducation voards.
26
. agerness Aon tudents to earn about America and
its rs.
27
G. eed or ucation.
28
 - 
28
Aherican seaders: ip - vir iculty of Obtaining Top-
28
sankin rersonmel.
isbehavior erican Troops nd sent lent at
Hi her tandard o Livin of the cccupation.
29
SEUTION VI - PEAC TREATY:
30
A. Desire for Larly . eace Treaty.
30
SLOTUN VII - ROTS:
30
A. Jutline o holkaido, Jompiled by he ank f Japan,
 poro ranc, ptber 1.
30
 explnation  rhe ma awa actory royo lHi h Iressure
stry Jo ,., peber , l.
30
C. out ine or e nisi orks, apn ron  teel
Joapany, ., orn aido, mber .
30
D.
utline o uroran.nt I apan teel orks, Ltd.
(Laoushiki Misha Nihon - ettolo), urorn okkaido.
30
Jut ine of sunarawa Joal ine itsui inin Joapany,
td., ocation: 22, mnisun awa, -unagawa- achi,
Horachi, un Hokkaido.
31
expl nation or lhe reikoku Jen-i Jo upany, apporo
lnt. (reikoku sen-i abushiki aisha pporo lojo),
31
u. Jun ry x lan tion on Phe  uroran ship Yard of The
31
Hakodate ck Jo.pany, t.,  ust 20, 948.
ii.
The History ad outline of lne Hokkaido Co-operative
Dairy Coapany, Ltd. (Holaaido takuno Kyodo Kabushiki
31
Laisha). January 1918.
I. Latest Gener In:or lation on iokkaido, published
Au ust 15, 1948, prepared by Office of Administrative
31
Research, Hokkaido Governnent.
J. onthly ilitary Government Activities leport, Compiled
by Headquarters, okkaido ilitary Governnent District,
31
August 1948.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.92)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 742,
November 22, 1948.
MEMORANDUM
Tokyo, ovember 15, 1948.
subject: Observations de as a nesult of & Visit to
hokkaiuo by Foreign service Orricer, a. Henry
Lai, Jr., oncernin urrent Political
and Lcononic conditions.
SLTION I
Introuuction
surin. te Ttrlou september 13-27, lu4e, 1 visited
urben cna rultl treas in lokkciio, incluuing the cities of
spporn, unegan, saigal, tn murorn for the purpose
or observin current roliticcl -lu econo.lic conuitions
1/
(scheuule enclosei). . Tsuo huhei, tate Department
employee, cccomrunied me us inttrpreter.  series of con-
versations were helu with members o the vokkeiuo ilitary
Governent ream cni or branches or tht civil intelligence
corps in nokkaiio cnu with represt itative Japinese leaders
(& list of the lales or the intter is enclosed). The
Japanese leaders were frol overnmentul, educttionel and
inuustricl circlts, incluiin the folloving:
Governor.
2.
chaimmen or tle Frefecturel ssembly.
3.
yor of pporo.
4.
Fresilent I okkaluo university.
Lawyers, incluuing the nttorney Generel
and Frocurators.
ö.
saners.
7.
inuustrialists in steel, chemical, coal,
milk cnl other inuustries.
8.
union leauers.
心.
ilroad orkers.
10.
unier zlitor or oxxuluo himbun.
11. uucators cd stulents.
In aadition, tours vere maut oi sevelll basic
inuustries, inclulis steel und che..ical plants, a shipyerd,
t cocl mine, & tunnery, ai : mil rrocessing plant.
Feonle clu invironle it or mosktido
Diritr aically rrom tst of Jupan
as a rcsalt or y visit to mokkeiio 1 . convinced that
Hokkeiio ifrers in meny resreets froli donshu tnu Kyushu --
not only uo the peopl. anpeer to huve uiffereit psychologicel
chcrtcterictics, but the physical environ.ent lirfers
substenticlly from other parts of Janen. In the second year
of the meiji ere (lBos), the population or lokkaiuo wes about
50,O00 with only live Japenest in apporo. in the last 80
years, since the inauguration of colonial government by the
Central Goveinment or bkyo, iokkeiuo has witnessed & rapia
development, the populetion oeing 4,020,000 ptople as of
august l34s, ccoraing to statistics from the pporo branch
of the Bank of Japan.
The density o population of Hokkaido is comparatively
siell, being 5l per one syutre kilometer as compared with
215 on the minland.
The
CONFIDNTInL

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.82)
- 2 -
The peonle of oriuo, ccoruin to . ro Nosahiko,
Juuge or the apporo igh court anu Froftssor of criminal
Law at mokkciao tniversity, loox upon themselves as the
descenaents of pioneers much as uo reople in the western
pert of the uniteu -tetes. The rest of Jaren is considered
the ol. country, it nevin tteineu its present civilization
arter mny centuries. s  rt sult oi its comparatively short
listory, Jeren se ltauers cle im thet lokkeiuo nas no tradi-
tions or custo.s of lon standing, hence its innabitants are
.ore t to be sicu by nt iuets. rom tn Occupation point
or viex, tni i.  li bility on one heaa because it enables
 iuelo y lixe unis to Freu mort eily than on the
ieiilena oi Ju an or cn usset oa the oth r hena because
ie..ncre tizt tion or the  o"lt i lzo sitr. In the light
of this che.-cteri tie ie is or tt ccunetiou should be
e ier to te ieve in oxie iio ta-n in tn rest of Jepen if
the wey c te lou so oavinee the populetion or the
   .  
io  . , 
Iltral, iu.in.i its i: toiy, it nas been
exloiteu o the t. lo.e ihhebitants of
oxieiio rro t. overnr aot e e lattvo i to rind zays
 e  te levin tbllce bet.een isting
te rehabii i tin  oi o je'n  ttt of Hokkido,
ta ns ee roitle ar  t oliey or caploitation.
atlully, se po ale  tr i to seomaplish this
b lee by Lsi rle ocil or r
tei ra  ivetin the
cxplo tion o r te.i i t uture aetriment of
ocio, ueh cs over-uttin o ti rber ithout reforestre
tion sues
Phe feel ti Prom a is heigatened by
te uon iereIt lce bt tatt the isl or onshu una
se luo, cbot rive h  by Ferry,  by uae distinet
ol ietie uirfere cee. oake Io i. mt  Pr ther north than
onshu tht its ti t  tererte cone.hen
I left roxyo it es hot aa hunid it ta i arrived in
proro the wt.  cool  ivi. tin Phis
uirference ii te t turt i. iroitent beeise it mtkes the
retirceute or peolt . loo,i i,  lot ine
ter than in t re ,t ien the people
in oxkiao o lot tain te  tul ove  t i loxyo
tes into co iuc tion in i io on ttus
critetin Jren in its titiret..
2210 11
Jomunisa und Labor
mrtle o ovict ni ter in
nokktiao - jolimunist activities Incrttsing
ita t de ree o .ort latitule cnu the roximity to
oviet territory, thtre is  reater uwareless or the Union
or soviet ciclist tpublics (ussn) on the prt of the
Jurunese reorle clu  more overt caa caressive lctivity on
the rart or th counists. in many conversations, alarin
was tarressea colceraiay tle explosive stete of present
sovi t-matrical relctions cla conceraing the activities of
coulnunists

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
communists in okktiuo. . Ti Loshifumi, Governor
of iokkeido l& sociel jemocrat nd the youngest governor
in Japan) eapressed his firn belier that the united States
woulu vin if war came and thet democrecy would eventually
xin over communism in nokkaido. wowever, his opinion,
Which is believed to be the concensus of Occupation
officitls tna Japanese ltciers ith hom I spoke, was thet
comunistic activities are still incretsin: in Hokktido.
in view of this state of affcirs, the Eoverlor stressed that
erfective meene wust be foun. to strengthen efrorts now
bein mat to ue..ncrttizt the opulttion in order to
retaru ani eventuelly overcone the potency of conmunistic
cctivities.
D. Tension urtatet in emurn reu
while there We insufriclet ti.t to o to the eastern
rrt of ocxeiuo, -ll evilt ce iniictel that the tension
arouseu b t it ovlets mes srtatest in that aret. ccording
to il itti overnment  luber or Jupuntse fishing boats
heve been seiztu ty tne ussians airing their passage
betleen the ninlund t. the islcnd of munashiri and the
Lbomai group. oe   boats have been returned, but
ilitury Governient i. f the orinion that it is almost
inpossible to o tu  the straits ithout arousing the
aussians. . xu  the nx f Jupn pointed out
that Pishin in tht northern ocean Res of grett importance,
but ns non sucreniti i thct the peonle of oxkeido were
most ansicue lo. rtstorttion c tii risaing as essential
to the prosrerity i thet i l nd. ince the fishing in
the lemuro area is  reetly hin ereu by the ussiens, there
is  strong aesire to settle the uestion of fishing
grounis ith the ovict union by diplomtic nerotiations
us soo. = it is rosiblt to uo so.
. nuBo. ricniro, irector or the okkaido central
Licison til vooruination orrice, voluntetred his opinion
thet the lirriculties or tlis situation would be clleviated
if at the peact coaference unashiri Island, Yetorofu
Islana cna tit group of islands consisting of the nabomai
Islcnds and hixotan Islana coul: be returned to Japan. de
referred to the sortin office, Jtnenese covernment publicu-
tion, of November lg4o minor 1slanu ajecent to Jepen Proper
- rart 1. The murilt islinis, Tnt abomci and hikotan,
which, as a member of tit ministry of oreign ffairs, he
helped prepere, as settine forth historical racts upon
wich uch  course wouli be justiriea.
. uniteu tutes to ebuaion
okkaiio in utse of tr
as an inuication or tne concern relt by the people in
Hokkeido, a rumor that, in the case of war with the Ussm,
the united states may abenuon lokkaiuo hes long been in
circuletion ana is appereatly believed by & large egment
of the population. The runor has been considered creditable,
even among some of the leauers, because the united states
has not constructed air fielus on the salme scale as it has
in the other parts of Janan or given tangible eviuence
sufficient to convince people of the inaccurecy of the rumor.
also, tht troops stationed in okkaiao tre menbers of the
eleventh airborne so that the population believes such
troops couli be easily evacuated to Honshu by cir. The
UONTIDL.TInL
apprehension

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.84)
- 4 -
apprehension of the popultce is not assuaged by reports of
rortificctions being built in the duriles according to
member of the Occupation these fortifications have been
sighted by pilots of u. . tircraft. ven the wives of
Occupution personnel are reported to be uneasy :t being in
fokkaido, because of the possibility that if hostilities
break out the soviets mey attack that tret.
tuaents cre concernel over the tossibility of war
between ussia a tne  itea tates.ccoruing to .
lso oboru, a stultnt t pporc aiversity, culty of
Lishtry, students hope that Junen ill not be involved
since it hts reno inced lar td has no metns of aefending
itselr. never, some tult its, he cl ined are afraid they
mey be coipellcd to volunteer to tater the americen army
since the cnitel t-tes is tne iomincnt power in Juren. It
tes of interest tet nt si .ited tates iniluence is
exerted throu  the iet on many snccts of Japanese life.
ttituue rowru ommunism
(1) assiviy c ja.  o ropulation.
Phe e jo.ity c. :co le  artiy teau to assume a
rather pas ive attitlue to the utivitits of the
comunists, bte ist the Ju Jese torle ure cfiaiu that if
they tele - trong sta id guint the coaunists tney will
become oomed mel oili t.e .ite tates abanuon loxkaiuo
 the ovitts stice coatini. he co munists take
Luveatege of tlis feeline by ii in mel.berchip in the
ounist iarty so thet ie ill be roteoted for the
Puturt. Phie aprtal is uaieretooa to be marticularly
sxccessiul rn young men so Pecl tt sity have nothing
to lote by joi lii tt ouuuist iarty even thou h they
have no rtal co..plet sion or i rolicies or activities.
the co unieto inuite youn ecruits u otners to
extrt..e ucts by pro. i t tot i t the ost spectac
ular recoris sill reccive tle best posts ien the coillunists
tes e roner. iisoa reoas, o munists iatime te,
rsultinr fron oprosition to cuu ttion policy, will be
nihly regrucu t tict s.. he omanists clso take
aiventage o t.e n ion tis.. i te minus o iny
peonle ts to he true mein  ae rcy, cle iming that
on lim is trut dencracy.
-veI though t.e teoi o.iuo te to tdont
in: or neit I -ttitude to I. coulism, thcre is no loubt
t. at, in the m ia, yr t lics i1 a io lie ith the
litea  tes. rhert cre many sie or lo ate ling
Inet t  ii nk the
rlo  t rit he tetr o okkaiuo
university,  et thet n merican helred itsign the city
or  no:o, a. t ree licction that ia ing methous anu
cuttle ii ti: curtetions c trican lleas.
Phe peo l t leo ere rrom tae illo tion rou ht buck
by re tri tes  n ict creas tact haa t t ovicts
occupied okx ie   setio ouli be vestly lirrerent.
here is pre a treeaois cretituue on te tart of the
Jr m ste For te te troi a. hehe trete it ion they
heve rectivea eatrery to ll expectetions.
Cover or I. i telievea thet there tre iniications
th.t demnerecy istaing oinu over comunism, citing as
one

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.78)
-5 -
one or t.e outcont or his eriort: to appoint  Labor nelations
-ocra for okkiio. e s-i. t.et t.e co..unist-dominated
tionel olgre  Irutricl rcers lnbetsu or en soku
sngyo-etsu iui ii) twice rejecteu re resentetives
appointeu by the over or, he vil reiusea to nominate the
co.inists si esteu b t is nin. s - lt-t resort the
over or c  Iateu cll . ive labor c bers o the botrd from
.
steiteretion or lauustrial
iote vo  wii ot a neutrul unions.
ilor, etsu insisted on
cacctioile tepve os ai no precise
i tt ly 1 per
ct  resertou the snall
o eviel by t ras and
 o c eioe it aonte
t    cverel ritized their
e lee othe   e ial ppoitment
(,  1  i  i-
e1is
.t
t10-
tlunis.
 iorovict reas
iiiovee t reels has been
iieit
i veri t ter izecruin to
Jtilisover tiei ls, tese heve been
I creiber o re tri te i et atea in counish
 r  ir te  counist
e t. t  l ic it counist ieus,
ii  .itsi un
 ie, h bee c tly i-o aist us  result o
i c io i t ta to daran in
al: a rterter  ly lee cars.e said
 e  h e t t t ese wre
treett iahnly  t covit. e i. in is croup alone
te were oo o  l itlces trouch the
sio i as  reit h t lve tit ir les tpitatou because
of rrost bite. iimeu liviiutls, le ci it, even though
tiey i t still  clive,  ve  ot beci ret rned to Jepan.
He dtseribel t.e llfe  . nter e  terrible beyond
deccri tiel, tutil tr t t selr  receiveu very bed
treat.t t  belitve tt ae sou,oou conle h lied in
cus i. iburie. le sai i s l to velieve thet trere
iere s ay Jun lese i so vi t reas  cli.ci by the
llied -o. els. e vs cware, hoever, tt  e oviets hed
made io cificitl counter clti.. s to the ser ci Jupcnese
still reiinin. . hiodal stutu that the oviets
picked Jeunese to be renatriated on tuc basis or tnose wno
worxed hara na were considerea rro-sovict. ne said that
t..e -ovi ts al=o iu: Ja anese cmon te  risoners of war to
serve as seuret olice. such Lgents receive better food and
.
In siberia,

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.94)
- 6 -
In siberia i. shiokawu was nicked to tetch English
to nussian officers. e claimed that ussian officers
were learning nglish at the instigation of the Soviet
ilitary cademy. le saia he was also tllowed to teach
Jepenese men who were desirous of learning nglish. He
described nis aiaze..ent oa returnint to Jepan at finding
thet the clains ae by the oviets were untrue and
realized thct he res continuously tola lies. de said the
coviets claim that the mericans nere sterving the
Jupenese. He himself hed hearu the claim so frequently
thet he believed it, so ts over-joyed at seeing the
conaition: unuer wich th Je tnese were cctuelly living.
it seid he ts reptreu to tnuure cll the sufferings
that were necesstry because of Je an's error in waging wer
but that the trectment tccordea by the soviets was so
intolerable that he inself woula prerer death, if they
took over Jurun. e steteu thet he was fearful of making
nublic speeches about tht ovitt union because it might
heve tn tuverse reection on the other Jaranese prisoners
of war who were not repetriuted. he felt that the UsSn
deleys rep-triction in oruer to rrevent unfavorable talk
by repatriated J-renest -bout the treat.ent of Jupanese in
iberia. It is o esrecicl interest that mr. shiokawa
claimed tnct there were some oo soviet u ugents, both
Jupenese cnu rorean, non in mokxtiuo ror the purpose of
spying on the cctivities I Jaranese comiunists and acting
us liaison betheen the counists cnu deadyuarters in the
Jovitt Union.
(3, interest in ommunis increasing
allong stuaents
The sprttu or comaunism tmon the youth of okkeido
is not li...ited to laborer, but is rumpent tmong students.
r. Iro seiya, Fresiuent of noxkaiuo university, stated
that w:ile there &re only eleven registered comnunists in
the iniveisity the number of sympathizers is large and is
incretsing. e lso clcimeu that there tre approximetely
four unregisterei cocaunists timon: tne terchers, a fact
wich vs conrirmed by militery overnment. in addition,
there tre also ny coiunists tmon the cdministrative
staff. ie felt that it nreseit there was nothing he could
do about extirretint co.nnuni tic inrluences, but indicated
that revision of the ttional rutlic service Law wight be
heloful to nia.
During my visit to okkiiio tat use of the university
as a font of cotaunisn was brought home to me. ur. atsuda
Takeo, irector of the nokkcido university Library, came
to miiitury overment re uesting help. The Fresident had
anproved  celcbration at the university to improve
relations beteen the feculty, students, tni friends of the
university, but ht i suidenly awekened to the fact that it
was comnunist insnired, desrite the ruct thet there was to
be n unveiling of - bust or r. illiam . lark, to re-
place the one destroyei airing the wer (ui. clark wes the
acrican senclai who was the first head teacher of the
university n it vs clled spporo riculture school).
Phe remainier of the progran featured lectures on
rxis, such ts "Inviting soreign Investments and arxism"
and "Phe mouern meaning of arxism". ilitery Government
tolu Jr. etsudt thet any tction wouli heve to be under-
tenen by the oniversity, but mede it clear that it was
disturbed
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.86)
- 7 -
disturbed anu expected sone tction to be taken. Dr.
.ttsude pointed ut that ilittry covernment aid was sought
because of the conflict butween freedom of thour ht, and of
personal literty, an. conmunisn v..icn the university
authorities felt wes anti-cccuration. it nas of interest
thet in tnt list or university organiceticns listed as
being iven certain sns or oey to prepare for their ptrt
i the tctivitics was ohe crge iticn frenkly designated
"o.munist ell".
Phe mill lovern ent orricer i chere or education
i rertical  ly i uou.t by t e ctivitics oi this
ri.tion. e i it nl eeressive, but well
rovi it ox  liter, ereas in contrast
there i   i. ion r rae. iitics lor countering such
ctivities.lotlitat rstnt-tives clained
tt only  . tles tuiy ounis, tut that these
tuie t  it  tt ttr or t coe spects or it
int ot be u buili - aeleteu Jrn. ar.
wtsuo,tuttt ro.o cive.', si. that stuients
t notintir i couunism but
ticipte .i  Pr the sonool
utloritics  ve iscu ao o jectio. most stuuents, how
tvei, ht cli.i iiilt coirt. mt co. uented that
the mot efreetive t  omtat comaunism is to find
means of nrovi in. loo, le,  ho lcin, because as
Ioi us these ie l c i .ieits will be -ttrected by
extrat couooi.
oment: oll.i t 1. t to noiuo, the
Junts miniter f -iltion  ober 8, 148 out-
ltleu sucn ativities c the "oo ulist sell" at okkaido
oniv rsity. n is ti ic-tion to resilents of rrivate
nd tete univeritits l oal seicols, the minister
stutea thet the i t I stlients  in iviuuals to oreenize
into grou s mu t lot te inlriagtd, it titt the fornation of
politle-l branches or cny poli icel purty or cF uny extre-
mural orgtai tioi e uivcltit to volitical braiches must be
stuuiously avoideu.  con o t.s lctliicttion is enclosed,
3/
together with one cory or the Jan nese text.
(4 tuts l  o a1
neveals laws or unitalism
a reason  iven by staents ct ox-iuo niversity for
the stuiy or connulism n tnet the honu senno scaadal,
(t..is mission's uespttch no. ce? or cctober 11, lo43)
revealeu that capitalism has grect rlans. Phey cltined
thet this cuse ie then shenticel ts to hether the
Jeran se rovernment was ctrrying out its caministrttion in
the demncrttic way which the Cccunetion both desired and
reyuired. They si: thtt the stional iet shouli carry
out its runctions us thou h in a class house, but cctuaily
the meabers or the iet wtre rullin ires ciu condueting
affairs in their own interest rather than ts representatives
of the reorle. These stuuents thought thet a mejor diffi-
culty liy in that tht iesses are uneducated tnd voted for
inuivi ulls who iii not have their interests at heart. The
students also inaicated  feeling that unaer the Occunation
there is little thet can be done, appearine to pluce some of
the blane for the present deplorable state of affairs upon
the Occup.tion.
CONFIUENTIAL
.tsuo

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.86)
- 3 -
.... tsuo ussei ted thet Jupanese capitulists are
generlly too selfish, being only interested in exploiting
labor. e hi. self hed suffered  bitter experience with a
firm aurin: his sunmaer vacction. The only work he could
find wes ith t Pirm wich cleaneu boilers for the
cucuretion. ile he ani the the. stuients ctrried out
thei. ie i the barsin, t i ileu to ray what hed
betn roised h ol hcn te stuutats refused to work
ay lor  ii it uo s ori inelly rtu.  tsuo
believe vt fercnese c itulists lll h-ve to be educated
to  cus . orerte ith . bo., istead of seeking only
its oan sclrisn -ins. me i coavi rcea that only by
cr c  l   ccoomic
relition be rlishe.
lulit utivitie luteu from
liore civil
tll      nnese leaders
avinci   tivitit e irected from
Poxyo.here i vi ee itti  municetion or travel
tetexit io the ounist
Iurty is rtco cictu  oliticel rrty it vill likely heve
its in feice in ciyo, ut thre is ome indicetion thet
the coaunits my be retrin to use lokkeido as the main
base or t.ci. tivitics i. cse ot leeu. nccoruing to
the ivil xatciligee . te or caitionel set-up of
the onnunist rrt in okkiuo hs cen tly been revised so
tt it is   licete the rarty ization in Tokyo.
tini-uic rvice L
ni ts ot viion  tional ublic
service Luw
The rorosea revisica or the ational Public service
Le rec menueu by tner f tit y ouls carthur's
letter or July 2, 14 (tlis mission' lespatch no. 465 of
Jaly 24, 1 48) ts urncrmost in the minis of most people
with whon 1 talkeu. it is strenuously oonosed by the
communists us well es ty lebor letuers no are anti-
comaunist. The co.muni: ts heve ce terei their uttack upon
Oruinance o. sol ic s promul utceu as an interim
measure aitil the revisron couli be uniertanen by the
tionel iet, (this mission's iesnetch no. Su or august
10, loaB). s the Jur-nese  eonle in ceneral tre not tware
of the exteit to micn the vecuretion is conccrnei with the
orert ting uettils  t.t Jcnese Joverment, such us
upprovin. the oriiltnce berore its issuanct, tne commaunists
fin. it easy to convince mny inuivialels perticularly lebor
union mtembers thet t.e Je tncst overnment has taken auvan-
tage or the tnerl mc..rtlur letter to curtail the rights
of lcbor.
 higeo, mber of the ecutive oittee of
the uroran branch oi the koutte socyaru ranch of the
all Japan hipbuiliing Labor cnion, sai. that while he and
his rellow melmbers vouli obey Oruinance o. 20l they could
not understanu how the cruinence can supersede the constitu-
tion. e si he hd met . G zuo, dinister of
agricilture and orestry in the ashide cubinet at doboribetsu
unu had raised the uestion with hin. ccoraing to . se,
. Nagae replied thet the ordinence was based on the July 22
OIDENTIAL
letter

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.80)
- 9 -
letter which coring from the supreme conmanuer for the
llied Powers superseded the constitution. r. Negae
pointed out thet by pledging unconuitionel surrender
aboard the Uss issouri tnd tgreeing that the Japanese
Government oula be subject to te supreme comander for
the llitd Iowers, complience itn cny request from the
urreme conuer wes compulsory rtgruless of form.
Jes ite tais . se s appittl not coupletely convinced.
hil. . st as unieretoou not to be a communist, the
constitution-lity of t.e orlinance is a mujor point used by
the co aulists in oyposing revision or the lew.
  hoxichi ,  Yukri,
hief cecretery, o the okkiuo Lubr ongress, which is
coimlunist lo.mine ted, sai. tiet tt tat eitive boara of the
Jo rtss i unanimously prpost to  rlin-nce o. z0l. M.
Tomtue is ctt lo uel b the ivil tatelligtace corps as 
seuret member or t ounist rty.  uraxtui is a
re isterea meber.  otiio Labor oon ress is the
I.gest Leier tic: or l bor uniols in okkaido. mccording
to  extcutives atu, t tot I nuuber or workers in
kkio is  pri tly 70, c  ich 400,000 belong
to or  izel uhicns.  ti.  ttor pumber 270,000 are
mebers i1 the oxhiuo tto. n ress, ls,Oo in the
erl ettion  J l te liols (ippon odo
-mii olomei  12 ,  ut.-1. or the 270,0
mbee in tt  r,   ci t y the
re eae  e  visio r the
tio l ui ivice   Lbor ivi ion or the
 ien iii ion   is letrters loes
at ve t  t   ones ite by
tett
estt
is
toteetion or such
ttiiihen
ote tht thee
aunt be ttethet
co
nio1union
hel its a tin ich time  ition nad
bett
 e
oro1vent
i  iite tt the en r leelin towar
the orlin  e  oiio  y tated thet the
oitio t t o use n  r
to    it it by stii ii. meeoi. to thest
exeutive,    ai  bers who at ri st heu wited
to stri    to bn tais mmeuver becuse
of presre  t to er n the oeve the worsers
hoi lot thi. ill t  a -l cve: taouh ty continued
to be rtet t ir laces of eaployhuent tre lot really
t plvi thel sel ves.  ether reaction these executives
describeu  thct, it. the surrression of union cctivities,
GIDE....L
ecn

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.88)
- 10 -
each men hes begun to feel thet he hes to look out for his
own interests ani in the tbsence of seeaing living wages
through leeitimate union activitics .ust rind some means of
obteinin the necessities of lifc, even if it means engaging
in ulcck warxeting activities.
-ven trou.h the oraint lee crplies only to sovernment
woikers, .. rcleit sai. thtt workers fear its restrictions
might be extenutd to other workers. The result is that all
o kers cre iiscoulugtu, he contelue, ul. feel thet, us in
t le tit f vr, tnere is ic - aoticetble tenuency to resort
to hi h-hanicd mcusurts in ca ressing the rrtedom rtnted to
labrr inicnt fter t..e r. ne stiu t t revision of the
tionl I ublie vie L.. y tt sitt is   tter of the
ravest concern t.i i sein wateleu by tll labor member
unions. . Yue  eule reu tet the okkeiuo Labor
Jon, rtss ha tei tht liici ioci. to inierstau thoroughly
the real coniitione ei lubor in o un c. to knov that al-
though there still cxist burctucrtts u cpitalists who
deter ue ocratition ci Je ca, tle iorkers theaselves hope
to un-nolu uemocracy us esseaticl ror te reconstruction of
Jepan une reclize tutt t tatir rossession of union rights
they he ve a res o.s ioil ity to de oeratize Jupan.
The rosition stetei : the renreseatetives of the
oxkeido Labor Jone ress is the one ta..en in general by the
connunist iarty. it clee.ly refleets te se t pe of argu-
ment thet was ustd at tat e?th eetin (specicl) or the
..llied council ror Jeran, this mission's desp-tch no. 569
or .u ust 31, lo43, aii in the rress release fnin the oviet
meubI oi the llieu ouncil, (ti. mission's despatch no.
B94 or entember l0, lla. it is orthy or note that
ilitary Governit li ivil intelligence corps personnel
are coavincea  tne cleverness, intelli ence, and
ti tability o the cunists.  ivil ntelligence corps
orficial aeseribeu . lcmia ts a n of trelenaous power
ii inrluence. iter talxing ith hin clu others who are
colunist letuers in l-bor unicas, i wes imprtssed by their
caliber tad arrtre.t bility. there tlso cppeareu to be no
joubt of taei. conviction thet the rcints they were making
Were justifici. or t.i: re-son, it is my oninion that
these particuler men tre ll the more utngerous.
(3) on-voaunist Lbor tiers Less xtreme but
Urae alloscace or collective sruining
Other lubor leadere were ltss txtreme in their opposi-
tion to  ulinaace o. Lol i rosyective rvision of the
tionl -ubli rvice . o ever, they xere unalimous
i. thtir orrosition to t denial of coilective burgcining
to ;vernent loe.  1o sto, itf, Generl
fftirs ub-iivi lon, pror i ty rfi ce,  u heirman,
ecutive comaittce, ppoo ity rrice aployees cnion,
expressea fetr that this netu utrtere ie beginnine to con-
si er tll lutor union aetivicies as co. aunist-inst irei. He
suii that the mjority oi -u lie s rvice vorkere believe
thet they tre orking to serve the unlic iiterest. Leceuse
they re uoil so, he contendei thet they reclize thet
certuin restrictioas cre unavoilcble, it they etmestly
re.utst tact the tttr o? collective tei: ining be recon-
siuered.
If collective barge ining is pronit itei, r. duloto
i coavi lcen tnet tt c. tt rs will con iier thet there is no
OFIDENTIAL
use

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.80)
- 11 -
use in minttining unions. . umoto expressed disturbance
at tnis recction since he mcinteined lebor leaders are
convincea thet labor unions can mant &  reat contribution to
the deiocratization of Janen. it ws apparent thet r.
damoto guestionel vhcther t is dead uarters is thoroughly
fal ilicr iti. lator conaiticas throughout Japen and wondered
whether in tie cccunetion's cel ior suppressing communist
activities in l bor unions it .i ht irrenarably injure the
developme nt oi  sounu I-tor inion movement.
. Y o, i hit, kiuo nch of ll
Jtrcn ocl i io ranro  iho rnko odo sumiai Domei)
i. t:t  It tt lbo. inion tutivities heu gone too far
in tae b i min. i coat uently they hei brougnt upon them-
lves the ution or te eecction in restricting their
ii ts.   tt i iler t rturful that following
revisicn o. t tinel i  i viee L, similar
restrietions ill e cate uel to their unions. mr. PsukamoTo
jine, member  te io ecutive oittee of the
ert1 edere tion f u unese Tr ue unions (Nippon odo
aumici odomei sl tat ile tt tional Fublic Service
Law was not tnplicetl. to t. trs of his union, except
cecupction earlo ees,  union es not onrosei other then to
te pronit ition on llcctive b r inine, un opinion also
s iarea by .. Yotshit. ne bo it that tiis was the
o.itinn o the  n lu  lsor, believine that they
onciuer it reton.  tovrent earloyees not be
clloweu to strike.
out Ithor ct in riv-te inaustry believe it to
tati iv ate t t iato on. it tion the sririt of
O. rineice in.el even t i: me lot prly to private
ilrstr. . ino coo, e i , nishi lion und teel
oay ior ric, i  lion cti vities in his plent
nu iett in  rainnce o. zl.He
st ii tit at t ri tir  i unina on ugust ko and
1, T, ply  ithizers oprose
t  iin r  
1 oie1  ressive
i.ipparently been more
ressive in oluo t cle,   nitinn oclieved
to be cl.t titiy ini uaits. 
lmoio oehihiro, t tt. tl,  po i h u li
Irore tor e t, conia t i  inion by roi tin to the
le nun  vicltion in. t . Llih have
ot  iuc.  cite: tt ven tiou h tae entire
o. c otor's tie  be mobilit titre 
I in liur t hle il the cses. s cn be secn
Pro cn teie rort Pro. the rroeretors arrice,
 tr tio ioloe to t o copy o
J  tent, I  letors verndeat
isi P 72s e  i e hal been rreted. 
th  tter, 171 a le iietei, Loe relest,t i 2 cases
ere till renain
rhe inuivi l.. releese. uoicie tei or minore cn: those who
- ptre tly Lisunueretocu the orlincnce aaa xpressel  villing-
nts to eturn t orr. . ishincto aeclcreu thet the
Iters ere  I oun men ranging rom 19 to 24 years of
JONSIDENTLL
¿ge

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.89)
- 12 -
agt, & fact he aescribeu is both tlaraing and jiscouraging.
Only about 20 per ceit ert older than 24 ana most of these
hed been iuentifiea ts col unists. ll tht ltaders he said
hau been rouna to be cosunists. Ihe communists, he doelared,
demonstrated before tne - focui-tor's office frequently since
deserters have bee.. -rrestei, ni at least once a week in
front of the rison. ote: -clitd in the renort from the
Irocurator's orricc ie cls stetistics concerning arrests
of members c the ll oiniction orhers' union (entei
or en-Teislin odo ici  nccr il the entire number
of cuses or Ji ctecories lulcu ithin the jurisdiction
of tle cprore i h Fubiie F octtor s orrice Januery-
au:ust 1948.1
 isnimoto ateted tt le ublie nearine on the
violetions a bet I hcl on e tuber 7, lv4a, but that the
constitutiolclity r  uia ce  in pispite so thet
the cse heu ttn strpae usil  teser 2a, lo43.
ccorain to th ivi -ntellirence orp, tne defense
lewyer ws  co  rcueu tt rdinence o. 201
hu tbe taron iet.
, rs ition orce nti-omunist morkers
to dopt :iniut-li.e Tctics
en t sjet   ti -ubiie rvice Law the
conments or i ier nuetor n the trin between pporo
nd asahigaw are esrcciclly interesting. it cppeared to be
 keen observer of resent con itions. le confirned the
ract that most of the deserters were youn railwey employees
who hed been agitateu by the conlunists. de contended that
conui tions long the rilway norers in lokkaido were so
severe thet some oi t. ir -etions resenbled those of the
comununists. he tett: thet the sentral overnment is to
blumt in leret wet  lre io. forci rtil.ay workers to join
in strug le cetivitles  len lrpcar to outsiuers like
colmunist activitits, becaust taere corears to be no alter-
native means oi seelil lel itiilcte otjectives, such as 
living wage.
ne clai.med thet tne seitrl covernent ignores the
opinions oi railiay lelegctes fro.. voxkciuo at conferences
in Pokyo, railing to t.e into consiueration special
conuitio..s in -oxkeiuo sucn us tle severe winter vaich maxes
nork haruer and necessitutes heavicr clo tling than in other
arets of Juran. nt saia tnat it hs no uesire to strike
aginst t entral overn.cit a thont thet most people
feel tiat iay,  it there lust be sonle wey of obtaining the
necessitits or lire. de said thet he couli not support his
family on i: resent wuge, but nes to rely upon relatives
who are fariers ror gifts of foou ahu has to supnlenent his
eurnin s oy ivin mtssages, but he saiu others ure not so
fortunate.
( vorble tction to evision or ational Public
service Lw in Jircles Other than Labor
nevision oi the Nationel Public service Luw hus been
favorably receiveu in circles other than ltbor. . BavTo
liuetaro, perker of the okkaido assembly for the last ten
yeers, seid that waile he believes revision should have come
much sooner, it had been favortbly received by the assembly
excent members of the left wing of the social semocratic
Ferty (there are no communists in the assembly). a resolu-
tion, he sttted, is being prepared for submission to the
JONFIDENTLD
assembly

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.89)
- 13-
ussembly concerning presentation of a letter to General
Wecrthur expressine ppreciction for his letter of July
22, 1948. . u Turo, tger of the pporo Branch
of the pank or Jortn, stated that Jeneral acarthur's
July 22 letter hel been fivorubly received in the business
an. financial o lu -l that the revision ould be helpful
in suppressin cctivities i comiunists. r. skuma con-
tenied that anytnin w.ich sloweu colunist tctivities would
help economie recovery mon rublic service workers which
co.rIise ont rifth of the tctel number of workers employed.
Or these, he cl i.e bout two-thiris vere rail way employees.
as hee been meati i reviously, Fresiient Ito of
okailo niversity, ho i not cal isturbei at the
tivitits of t.e unit tnerlly in ockeido, but is
herresseu by the inroas they have been mkine among his
stuleit bouy, -i istrative orit rs tlu rtculty, felt that
the revis ion o t  tionul i ubli service Law was & step
II the ri ht ii tutio.. cna ouli be helnrul in suppressing
the cctivitits of the uluni ts. ithout the revision,
ne itit thert e little tict coii te wone even though he
i. oprosti to  university bein treated cs a labor union.
. rreutivenese r ounists in Pnwarting
ecovery
(1)  iii  1  1 lys and
.L.e.
t l i tivitie re erettest in
rils  iniles  itic u control of railney
noktrs h alit te lesuribeu. oulists also
colcentrte lron lnes, not clly vccause lerge nuabers of
uen urt emnloyee ut teceust or tit ianortance of coal pro-
iltio to t rti ittion  pn. r xuin of the
 o J cn  t eol roctinn in oxkaiuo amounts
to one thiru or te totl or cll coren chu is of good
uulity. lile tne nnluction o-l stt ror nokkaido ror
tht risce1 year r l-40 is 10, 320,uj0 tons, prouuction to
iete nas been at t.. te oi 8s per cent to 95 per cent of
the gol.
 mujor reason for t i slishness has been the
lowered efriciency of labor. surin the wr, he claimed,
ecch miner nrouucea about l5 tons rer month, but now eech
proiuces cnly aboit 5 tons. ie tssertea that this is due to
icbor union activitics insrireu by conmunists cccomnanied by
i lack of aesire on the part of the miners to work, and
shortue of mchinery, timbers tnd tools. mr. slgIuna Ban,
nager of royo ..i h I ressure inaustry co.muny's plant at
unagtva, which nuftctures fertilizer, LI so said that labor
hes uecretseu tremeniously in efficiency, citing a mis-
understunuing a misinterpretation of democracy as the chief
reason. it suid thct the orkers consider they have been
Eranteu freedom, but that they do nct realize that freedom
entails resronsibilities.
antgenent has felt it essential to make speciel
efforts to keen ubreast of comiunist activities and to find
means of opposing them. . koG shohei, business
sunerintendent of itsui's sunagew cotl ine, stated
confiientially that he obtains informetion from a secret
agent who is on the sentral sourd of communist cells. The
ONEIDENTIAL
agent

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.92)
-14-
&gent does not ueal uirectly with the licncgement, but sends
it through & relative who lives at some distence from the
mine cau wiom he visits at night.
. Logt confileu that the gent is peid 10,ooo yen
a month ani that tn arrangemeit has been made with civi
intellicence vorns to om the iniometion is transmitted
so that he lill not be trrested in cuse of & round-up of
communists. .. ot suii he livulgeu tis secret infor-
mation in cruer to establish the creiibility of the facts
revealti concer in. colunist activities in the sunagawa
mine. The uate on coiluni:t activities is furished to the
okktiio milittry over at leum by  g
(2) ouist ctivities per ecovery, but tlso
Usei s cuse fo nctent's Jericiencies
There is some Feelin on the part of the dokkeido
militry overnlent reum that nugement, not only of the
-unagana mine but oi inuustrial plants, is trying to place
t..e blame ror thtir cin leiiciencies on the communists. To
so.ne extent this my be true, but tit uviaence of communist
activities is so strol in tie treus visited that there is
little oubt thet tit co.uni=ts trt seriously interferring
with the rencbilitetion of the Jrcnese cconomy. In the
case of te unegtwe mine, conversations with two of the
labor leuuers veriricd mntgement's opinion. . YaTsUhasHI
seiishi, ecretary deneral ci the sunegtvt Labor Union, said
that the mjority of niners are iot coimunists, but thet the
harishin of making a livin ikes them listen to anything
wich they thin. vill increuse their wuges. he asserated
that the ituation i. coniuseu by the fact that niners do not
discrinmintte bet..een true ie iocrecy anu conununism vhich
clains to be democracy.
 l hu, the  or the mitsui ol ine
at uncgava, cl-imeu thtt cbout gu per cent oi menugement's
time is srent in ieel in. ith i bor nroblems. He cited two
concrete examrles oi pro lcms  ich ioulu oruinarily be
simple o. solution, ut becease of tie obstructive tectics
or co. munlsts he ve re ui ei month: to settle. in one case
manegtatnt proposed the wi-igcration or two pits for pur-
roses of rationclicine muncgtent chi cperation. Phe change
was aesireu because it nouli re uire about loo fewer miners
ala iouli result in cn incretsea  roluction of lo0 tons of
coal uily. io.ever, . nt ucni suii that the delaying
tacties of the conmunists Rue it iapossible for the manage-
ment alone to rut the rl-n into effect. Only fter 8 months
of negotictions -nd 7 visits fron personnel of this Head-
utrters was the guestion finally settled in cccordance with
the originel plan.
The other case citea by .. laguchi concerned payment
for food servea at the iornitories provideu by the comneny
as housin for sin-le men, most of wnom tre young and meny of
whom are reretrittes rrom oviet arets (such iormitories are
considered as hot beds or communismi. t the sunagawa ine,
there hes been continuin. aifriculty over the uestion of
payment for food. at the time of t raise in wages, it was
greed between the mantgement nu the dokkaido central Labor
Board thet miners living in the aormitories would ray e
srecified amount. The conmunists persuaded the workers to
CONrIDLNTIAL
refuse

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.83)
- 15 -
refuse to follow the aecision nl the matter was only
settled tfter severil visits from personnel of this Head-
uarters. r. kwaguchi saiu thet tven though the two
problems mentioned are now settled experience has shown
that the comunists lways find & new ungle. since the
mitsui mile l ont other seller mine are the only ones
in okkaiao hevine ulion. mi ch are not completely dominated
by comnunists, . aguchi si. ti: mine hes received
sreciel attentio1 Lio . o. nzo, prominent member
o te omunit ty' itrl oittee.
Thet a ejo lo iI o.I  rotuction is lue to
colunist tutivitit  ul iel by the atti of the ighth
y ilite ov rn.t ea. artrvi: in col rroduction in
okkaino. e lso cx rtsti sae ticis a to the
ositiiiti   icvii the n tionel p=1 of 36,000,000
tons r . i. i t 1t i. i sion's uespatch no. 560
oi t 7,  . ti o dirricult it vas to
t   tivitit of the counists
sice i  . c i t ice in time to prevent
interitrelctition  titt evel when his team
solvel a nbi o  e lcrt then  new one arose.
ie erheeizu tt 't t i  itly ever completely
stttle. nothae ii i he lel s mnegeat's shall
auericel trel th, t i, in ne mi le the mngement
c.iti  1i:t t 7,o union members.
 t L  ut
 tin
LOTSL
  c.i.t bor successrully
t t  t   i tio with
is to erfect pro
t vtly. in cuuiti tht waile ane-
mtat i   the  ice till uoes not
llorit it   out it t nceatrtion on
 as o ir ovinieney   cble mgtment to
dtasonblcrit.
On the oint tt bor Yoliclte tlir in the
ucution h tn u, thit i rlce on the
rt c eutrl I  i. . Ii uo, or the
oilo rnch o the l a  i nt nion tresed
thet lubor wlions cre los oine cuh  trica of self-
rltction. in is on mien he ephesiceu thet efforts are
bein at t tauctte lbor  t its txcesses, but thit
isconce tions  iteiteine: ro..  i il raion unatrtaxinc
makes cits ifricult.  tuueu thet, ile nis union hus
 policy or incrt-sin  roauetion, other unions concentrate
meinly upon strac le activitics, un iutt . vich hes
conta.incteu is union.
I. Poner of ounists
(1  its rt reut loner esnite umerical
I..itriority
as is ntll knoin coinunists heve infiltreted unions und
exert inilutnct far cut of proportion to their menbers. They
make strenuous efiorts to obtain executive positions anu to
hetd tctivities havin to uo ith youth, education, propaganda
and culture. in such unions as the Government ilway orkers'
cnion, they h-ve clso sought to attrect key trained personnel,
such s engineers. ven ong unions which are not domi
COIDENTA

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.91)
- 16-
by communists, it is evident that the communists are
influenticl. t tht lakodate ock Jompany, t member of
extcutive conaittees stid thet communists are permitted to
specx freely ct generel meetine tnd if there are tny pro-
rosals which are reasonatle, they art considered and
fre uently tcteu upon, sut cny oi the denanas which Ere un-
Lecenteble cre voted lown.
colunist inl it nce varies in potency depending upon
the inuividul union. The okkaiuo tgional council,
itionl il ys or.ers' aion (obutetsu ouo umial
loxkaido hibo o. i i is cl..ost itirely communist
domintted cccoi line to un orriuer or the ivil intelligence
orps, but sne rtn  rile  tut oxhaiuo brnch of the
ll o mui ccions  trs' cnion le - reishi odo
iti ith  co unit et te heau, hamper somewhat the
Impletntetion f it olicies
as ca in ic tion oi the ro ostion o me bers who are
counists, . e mixiji,  er of the anishi Iron
chd teel o. may, tstimcteu tht cut of  total of 7,ooo
union Lembers, t ere re s0 comunists tad 250 sympathizers.
In the Toyo mi n i rtssure laustry, suntgawe actory, there
tre believeu to be lsu counists na 2o0 sympathizers out
of 2, 3oo union mebers. . O.. huji, haiman of the
Loyo Labor cnion, sci. ct ont coilaunist is eyual to about
four ordinary meabere.
in loxkaiuo otservation ci cocaunist activities by
ivil iatelli tace corps persouael has convinced them that
colmaunist propteunut reacnes tie rnx ana rile of Japanese
far mo.e effectively tnen does taat or the Cccupetion. It
aprears that labor cuication soono ed by the Cccupation
pri.cril retches labor union leuuers vho are mostly
collunists. The coisaunists et un insight into the plans
and tt.ois of te ccuration so that they can concentrate
on methois to combet cccupation efrorts even employing
methous Luvocateu by the Occurttion. urtherore, the
communists heve  well uefined coal chd progr wherees the
impression mon: Cccupation personnel, alu also amone some
Jeptnest, is thet t.is ltuuyucrters does not.
(2, uivision of eninions us to political metivities
or nions
Phere i. arpcre.tly some realition that union
tctivities shoula be economic rther than politicel. The
leaders itn who I talkea et the -itsui unagawe coal ine
stated that they tried to convince their fellow members,
but cousaunist members insist thet econnmic advances are
dependent unon roliticcl &ctivities. There is evidence that
all unions are inuulging to soime extent in bo th political
anu economic activities. Tne leauers or the Poyo Union, one
or whom was i communist, seiu that ll the leaders are
deeply intelesteu in politics and are progressive in their
idets. since they consiuer that the social semocratic Perty
best represents the interests of l&bor, they mostly elect
ocial vemocrats to their bourd and that since more social
Jeiuocrats are elected to the Board than conmunists, it is
proof thet the former party better represented the laborers.
CONIDLNTIL
The Secretary

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
- 17 -
The secretary General of the Sunagawa Coal Mines Union
said that he fought agtinst political activities of the
union, because he thought thtt union activities should be
limited to economic issues. He admitted that the communists,
however, continue to spread communism tmong the workers,
even though one comaunist has been discharged from the union
for enguging in political &ctivities. The representutive
of the Government orkers' union stated that in his opinion
there are clearly two movements in the labor movement, one
ideolocicel inu the other the reconstruction of Japen under
existing conditions. de inuicitea that he thought the
former to be an iaproper function of & union.
(3) Intellectue) vomunists not epposed to Produe-
tion Incretses
-r. roreeat or the Toyo union stiu that those
comunists wnom he clissiried as intellectual communists in
his organization are not opposed to production increases and
had worked witn him in persutding other unions in companies
controlling raw meterials nd power to furnish Toyo with
ltrger supplies. ne cl inea thet uue to the union's effort
essential power for example was obtained even though the
power compeny went on strike, chu thet now he and his men
are talking with lebor union members or & sterm power plant
in an effort to obtcin ciuitional power.
This method of obtailing coopei&tion or other countries
in sup lying Poyo with m terials nu power would appear to be
tresp-ssing upon the responsibilities of management. The
fact that the comnunists cre illin to work for prouuction
increlses by such & met.od urouses one's suspicions that the
reason is perhaps to unuermine the worker's faith in manage-
ment tnd to estiblish iirect dtalings unong workers of all
organizations.
J. communist iropusanda
(1) eeu for oul for meutine omes a jor comaunist
Fropugandu sub ject.
The comaunists are cuept at Pinain c.a using propa-
gtnuu with the strongest current tnpeal. . year go they
concentrated uron the lacx of foou is a susject of propaganda,
however, no? that the food si tuction has greatly improved,
they do not even mention it. at present, they coneentrate
upon severl vulnerable aspects of the Cccupution. 
current prime subject or prorteunde wnich has tlready been
toucheu uron, leatures the nteu of coal for heating homes of
worders, becaust of the hurshntss or the winter in nokkaido.
Jocl is necesstry ror the sill stoves usea to neat nokkaido
homes. hile most lomes re iartations of the Japanese
st le oi trchitecture there ure rever openings, the homes in
soine cses being constructed alon merican lines.
-ost people mentioned the importance of : proper corl
retion for all inhebitants of iokke iao anu pointei out that
although vinter has practically arrived coul rations and
allowances heve not been determined. since it begins snowing
in Cctober, the lack of adeyuate transportation will increase
the difficulties even though the coal rution tna allowance is
decided soon. The two ezecutives of the okkaido Labor
CONEIDLIPIAL
Congress

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.94)
- 18 -
Congress to whom reference has tlready been made as
communists, spent a major portion of their time talking
about the coal ration us one of the most pressing problems
in Hokkaiio. These men stia there appeared to be no
iniication of settlement of the coal tllowance question
tna that hile firewood i ht be used as a substitute for
co:l it i. difricult to buy cnd very expensive - only large
comrunies tnd rich fulilies being able to tfford it.
These men -lso pointed ut thet even though coal was
supolieu to key inuustries at  p ice ich the compenies
could fforu, l cs of coel for orker's homes would affeot
key inaustries becausc it ouli lover the efficiency of
workers. Phey st tei thet iuring the coming winter they
expected serinus troubles .i lisrur tion or work, antioi-
peting thefts or coal b reorle ho netued it nu by people
wlo woul. be un-ble to uy coal ct the high officisl prices,
even if the rtion ere -vilcule. epettedly in
conversttions ith inriviails or no conmunist leanings these
stime crgwments were presented so tiet there is no doubt of
the potency oi t.is sui ject us propugande.
(2) Unretsonable te Jemands inspired by ommunists.
communists, as well as other lebor leauers, constantly
nuher at dends for higher w es. orkers are easily
persuaded to follow alyone who crpesre to orfer & wey of
obtainin tn iarrovement i: y. hile unions such as Sodomei
claim they try to le their denanis reusoneble the communists
have no such scrunles. iice orners tre not versed in
tcononics they in not aniersta ii thet by unreasonable demands
they are culing to in inflation inich injures both themselves
tha their country. .. sugiure of Toyo steted thet workers
feel that weges shoulu be tuii to meet the cost of living
regtruless of the tinoint of vork performed. at present, the
company is losin: money at the rate of 20,000,000 yen each
nonth, but sinee other plents of royo are makine enough to
cover the loss, the lorkers ignore cny argunents that wages
shouli not be rtised until the sunegawa plant is prolucing
at = rate whicn will cnable it to meet expenses.
It is of interest that in the Toyo company the union
has succeeaed in tbolis in the sy te of uily wages so that
tll workers tre now raii by the month. The woraers consider
this sytem insures their bein peia even though there may be
no work. as there are fre uent periods when the electric
power is cut off or when the allocated amount hes been used,
the meintencice cost of workers iuring such pcriods is a
sizeable buruen.
.ccoriing to ... rino, hei man of the union at the
Jupan Iron cnu teel co:apany's unishi norks, the sederttion
of Japan Iron cni teel Jompany, Ltd., Labor Union (Nitetsu
bdo umiai), consisting of tne unions of six plants and the
herd office, tdonted tae minimum wege system aavecated by
such unions as the all communications orkers' Union, wnich is
communist dominated. dowever, the anishi union whose workers
were receiving an &verage wege of 7,O00 yen incluuing
efriciency wages tni taxes, were demanding 9,Oo0 yen, but the
Federation decided, despite the union's opposition, to demand
a uniform 13,000 yen fo: a11 plants.
COINTL
There is

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.93)
- 19 -
There is a realization in some unions that management
end labor must cooperete in every phase of industry. t
the Hakodate Jock Company, uroran Shipyard, & member of
the union executive committee declared that his union tried
to refrain from meking wage deinends thet menegement would
find impossible to meet. de said he realized that this was
contrary to co.mmmunist inspireu denands wlich paid no atten-
tion to the state or the finances or the company or the
country.
(), Other Potent omunist ppeals.
The comunists have other crpeals which it is believed
are lighly effective. Cne is the tionalist anpeal which
is similer to t..e ue usei b. the Militarists before and
uurin the war. it -pecrs to be effective because it offers
hopt to the Japunese thct they cal become a great nation
gin. The coinlunits, acco lin to Vice Governor Fukuda,
play upon t:is basie desire by insinuating that by edvocating
foreien invest..cnt: tie Cccun-tion is plottin: to exploit
Jupan as if she were : colony. There is no counter propa-
£anue, tle Vice voverao. statei, to convince the public
that foreign iavestients are essential if there is to be any
restoration of Janan's prewar standard of living. another
uppeal is the e uality or races. concerning this uppeal r.
UraBE Toshio, ssistant irector, okkaido Central Liaison
and cooraination Crfice, stiu he hai for a long time wanted
to point out to the  ccuation the feelings of the Japenese
people with resrect to racicl iiscriminetion. de stated
thet to me, as a me ber or the tate Jepurtment, he felt he
might be able to speex frankly. ne mentionea that Japanese
peonle trt suutr-stnsitive on the subject of rtce ani that
reretri: tes returnin Pro oviet ureas had made much of the
fact thct in sovict rets rcitl iisc iaination does not
exist. e si. thet the priue of the Jaranese was injured
by the ttituue ta.en by the ccuretion iich made it
Practically impossible or reputuble merican boys to be
invited to their homes. het in lokkeido it is practically
impossible to visit or i- ter isc itn the Jtntnese was
borne cut by tnt talns it. col itrs tu Japenese.
. uigeit tctssity or miequtte rolice
porce Froperly rieu tnu -uipped
It is obvious after  visit to mokkido ani discussion
vith Jenanese lecuers ena  ilitery Joverniment orficials that
the Japanese police force i. totally incueyuate to lintain
peace ani orier ithcut tit "resence of Oecuration troops.
.  oshirumi, yor of pporo ity, siu there are
568 policemen unu 50 men in clerical positions for the city
of stpnoro with its ropul tion of Lc9,Ooo. or the entire
police force, there tre only 80 pistols. rms would be
neeaed to meet ny e:ergency nich might crise fron co.munist
gitetion or frni. orean or other sources.  similar ptucity
of arms existe taroi lout okkaido cnd is tccolltt ied by an
almost total lecx of proper transportation.
ilitary vovernment officials clso pointed out that as
fur ts okkaiuo is concerned the new Japenese police law is
far too expensive as well as aiainistratively poor. as 
result of the new la., the number of police stations hes had
to be expanued fio.n 44 to 114 which is considered both
unitcesstry uni unsouna for Hokkaido. The vommanding Officer
of the

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.89)
-20-
of the Hokkaido Militery Government Team feels that the
law hei been based too much on the merican system without
any effort to adent it to the situation in iokkaido where
long dis tences must be covereu ana where there are often no
direct comaunicetions. .s t result he suiu that military
jovernnent in many cests is obligei to ignore the law in
orier to get tction.
Che oivictinu tit tt nolice rorce in vokkaido is
iit -ily ton s il, i ut ine itai-tely cred, is Llso true in
othrt  t conition was found on a
vi: it tyushu I. ' rin. he llitary cuthorities as
ll c Ju  atiat it tht aifficulty of keepine order
 i t   ct  sul be
bettr i i i to  iive ciist the Jarge scale
ui n t. c n  t rees. The same
positi t.  ia. delt ey or tht sananese police
atb ti ii hiceru and ao
coain press  lcutennt cenerlbert L.
Fitr of the ighth ray
in  n, i. .tli rsse in the itei ttes.
The leea t  ve  rone. olict orce ror the
iatee ct or ut i oclieveu to be or the utmost
irorta lce in vie. or tne possibility or inereased coumunist
ccit-tion us -ccuretion io-ces -re rtuucea unu especitlly
ifter t i ini eact treaty. oth Cccuretion and
Joanese -utinritits re cr the oninion thet it might be
recesstry to ve eccuretion troops even cfter a peace treaty
Ilts by thet trme : tll trailea thd trmed police force is
runctionia cae tae internctional  itlction more stabilized.
iI te subject of ccupation troops, it is coparent in
wocxcino tat toplt ie tora betueen taeir desire to be
free fron the Cucir-tion, -u t i. Ptar of encrotchment by
tle -...
a. dokkaido ble to support Larger Fopulation if
⊥auustriuli<ed
as aas clretay been pointeu vut te rensity or ponulation
in Hokkuiuo is sll us co.n reu i th the inlnu. or this
reason it is fIt th-t okxci-o coulu support a much lurger
popuiction than it now hes. ioever, it is loubtful that 
greater populction in cgric l turel treas wouli increase
tgricultural rroluction. It is true thct there are still areas
v..ich coula be reclaimea ana plens ro. such develonment have
been maue. The comanuing efricer of the military Government
ream sti. there tre over 2,000 ftnilies in : reputriation camp
outside of proro vho want to homestead ave ileble land in
iokkaido. he cleineu thet there woulu be enough land tveil-
able if certtin reclamtion projects wert put into effect es
hed been plananea, but steted that the ventral government,
which promised to help finanee the reclamation hud not
cooperuted.
de saiu thet some 80 families had decided to brave the
harashins of homesteading on their own and had set out to do
so, but thet most funilies can not do so because they do not
have the metns of getting started tnu because some reclemetion
projects
ONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.94)
- 21 -
projects have to be carried out on such & scale that only
the Government cun undertake the project. ie emphasized
thet this lacx of cooperation on the part of the central
Government is one of the reesons why the repatriation camp
in lokkaiao is a hot bea of communisn. Fanilies repatriated
from ovitt treas tre senartted by three or four generations
from people in Japan, therefore, heve no family connections
th no nlace to go, so in some cases wish they hed never
left soviet treas.
The only cther hore Por creatinge favorable conditions
anu suprortin - lt retr ropul tion is inuustrialization of
ioxxuido. s oxctiuo hes ltrge uantities of natural
resources, iniustrializticn is rtlatively eusily undertaken
if canital is aveilable, but cbtaining canital is a major
dirficulty. Tht okxtiio coverllent hus inaugurated a
"Jevelorment oission" wich is now engged in studying
uni clanning. 1t is thou ht thct n auditional 3,000,000
populetion cn be ubsorbed in ok iuo ith rurther
iluustrializtticn.
 lotro, itf, ur or omerce and
Injustry of the okktiio covernment, is anxious thet foreign
capital be de vailuble in oxkaido. ie cleimed that
Jentnese busiiess men tre loctht to invest in Hokkaido,
because of the colmmunist threat, therefore, he hes great
hones that some of the first uericen canital invested in
Janan will be invested in oxkciuo. ne is convinced that
such investment will ussire the Jiptnese that the United
~tates naa no intention of abtnuoning iokkaido, therefore
Jananese investors would no longer hesitete to follow thet
leau. nile cn audition or ,ooo,ooo people to dokkaido will
lessen the pressure of populetion in Japan somewhat, it will
not solve Janan's over-Lll popul:tion problen with its
present Bu,Jou,ooo Lia the rrosnect or stetdy further growth.
accorline to Vice uoverlor ruxuda there is little evi-
dence that the mjority or rtople, at least in iokkaiuo,
have any desire to rina solutions for Japan's increasing
populction. de sti. thct lost peorle continue to think in
teras of the olu imperielistic iuea that the more people the
greater the nation. e sei. thet he himself is trying to
arouse interest in birth ontrol, but has haa little suocess.
de stated thet he intends to continue his efforts because
he feels that the only intellistnt course for Jipan is to
reduce its populetion to & fer more reasonable figure than
80,000,000.
. Need for eltxation of Government Policy
of Financiel tringency
veferring to the difficulty of finencing the industriali-
t tion of okkeiio . banTo idetaro, speaker of the Hokkaido
assenoly, contendei that the stringent financiel policy of
the central covernment does not tane into consiueration the
specitl conditions existing in okkaido. He thinks that if
Hokkaido is to be developed industrially to help relieve
population pressure as well &s contribute to the rehabilita-
tion of Japan, sptcial consideration should be given to
Hokktido in the government's financiel policies. s every-
where in Janan there is inflation in Hokkaido, hence from
the standpoint of inrlation alone, according to Lr. SakUma
Torao, Manager, sapporo Branch sank of Japan, there is a
dire
CONFIDENTIL

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.92)
- 22 -
dire need of sdditional capital.
de reverled thet capital in Hokktido is very small as
comptrea with the rest of Japan, heving only 5 per cent of
the total capitalization. ccordin to . skume, capital
is increasin, many of the lons being from the econstruo-
tion inalce ak fn encourcce ent of production of vital
r. tericls, such -s cocl. he uestion of financing is
iport at  t tenirciat of griculture, ts well us
in ustry. .s  :ilt the le.lu for cupital tends to be
sctsoitl ith ii l-tion tie ount or cepital available
one vetr i not wtrficient or the next yetr. de
volunteereu the illcm tion thct the shortase of capital
nes created rat irriclitics on the farmin population.
ice r l ox oi uegucte ltans o Pinancing, other
prooles confront rstry, o iea some nave already been
mentioned such us lebor troubles cha nower shortuges.
inustry -leo lec te reguieite ras terials for
incretsea piuctio. me Jren ron a teel onpany, Ltd.,
nishi oits, neeis  a creat ores tna coking cotl. coal
is ow impo tee trom raruto, ut Lebor union leaders
cluimeu it is nnt rr li n ulity ni uesire that it be
importeu Prom nade ai iping
J. Lucs  ctermintion or neparations
 seterrtit to cnnolmic chabilitation
in industrial in:teiletio  to: :s tht loyo migh
Fressure Inuustry Jompeny, Ltu., t Junugtva, the Japanese
teel orks, Ltu., at murorn ti the kouate ock Yard
conny, Lti., t murorn, the lack of uetermination of
rep-rations has created a feelin of uncertainty as to the
ruture. it is t"pcrent that there is  tenuency to
hesitate in me.in improvements or in mkin long range
lans. The Cccup tion is clso caustd some confusion in the
Toyo High Fressure inuustricl Jonp-ny ich vas among the
plants oriinally uesi nateu ror e arttions. On submission
of  retition to ueneral neaaguerters for removal from the
reparations list, this htaayuurters is said to have denied
the retition. vecently, howeve, tccoruin to Lanager
sugiurt, rersonnel from the cperttions section of this Head-
quarters sucgested re-sub...itting the petition. On following
this cuvice cle sub...itting it througn -ilitery goverament,
the oner chunnel o. coiununicetion ith tis Headyuarters,
mi. ugiura stiu that military coverment had declined to
forwerd the petition.
The entire foyo Plant is not designetei for reparetions,
but only one of the two aupliccte sections desirned to pro-
duce sul huric scid. he section desiyneted for reparations
had not only not been completed at the tiime it was designeted,
but wes still unuer construction, therefore, whatever orders
an contracts existed were canceled. Phe section is there-
fore incomplete and the coapny would lixe to use e uipment
and mechinery on hand as spere parts, anu the buildings for
other purposes.
 portion of the Jupan Iron and steel company, Ltd.,
anishi orks, uroran, is under reparations. It consists
of the older portion of the works and is & self-contained
unit. The management of the company is anaious to have a
deteraination made of reparations beceuse they can then
CONFIDENTIAL
devote

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.96)
- 23 -
devote all their energies to developing the remainder of
the plant. The Japan Steel works, Ltd., Muroran Works,
is &lso l&boring under the shadow of possible removal for
reparations. The management is extremely anxious to have
& determination made as to the reparations so that they can
also devote their energies to production, end if portions
of the plant tre to be removed they tre tnxious that these
be removed ts uickly as nossible in order to cut down the
cost oI maintenance.
at the akodate ship Yards, . HanUsuI Matsuzo, the
head of the wull vepart.ent, pointei out that if the equip-
ment of their lockyard is removed for reparations it would
become impossible to rentir ferry boats which are so vital
to the economy of Jeran because okkeido is an island. He
also pointed out thet foreign shipping might also be
affected in vier of freyuent uifriculties experienced in
Aokkaido waters, particulerly in the spring and winter. He
claimed that ithout dock yaru fucilities total losses of
ships mi ht result from damege wnich otherwise could be
reptired. The members of the labor union or the companies
were also very nmuch concerned not only because they feel
that the various inuustries are importent but because they
are concerned about their own jobs. mong other plants
designated for reparutions is the Phermal lectric Plant at
betsu. The extrent shortege of electric power in dokkaido
has resulted in a retition thet tiis plant be renoved from
the list of reparttions.
D. Possible abottge in eparations Thermal
rlectric Plant
.t the time of my visit, exte.nsive atmege had been done
to one or the yelerators at betsu under circunstances which
anpetreu to be sabotege. military government was making a
thorough investigetion anu planned to severely punish the
saboteurs, if found, as an example, especially if such
sabotage were founi to ce instigcted by communists. as a
result or the utlege, & meeting was heli of all representa-
tives of anegement in the clectric power industry to warn
them to feret out iniiviuutls ho mi ht be damcging machinery
and when found to bring charges ith the procuretor's office.
The management was also urgei to pay special attention
to the tyre f iniivi ual enployea tnd to produce all the
electricity possible because con ag snov ould limit the
amount of Water availeble for gtnert ting electricity and
because coal llocated for ielivery to thermal electric power
stations was clready benind schedule. s  further reason
for care of c. inery in use ana preventin stbotage military
Goverament mede & speciel point of the fect thet heavy
machinery is exceedin ly difficult to rerlace.
after the meeting, the Jomending Officer of the Military
Government Tean confided that he felt he was walking a tight
rope in his thinly veiled hints that all communists should be
removed from unions and other organizations. It is therefore
believed that this officer must heve been encouraged not to
mince words by the press statement of r. ichard .. G.
DVulL, chief of the Labor Lducation ranch of this Head-
quarters.  copy of an article in the Nippon Times of
5/
September 30, 1948 summarizing the statement is enclosed
CONFLUENTIL
entitled

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.90)
-24-
entitled "Unions Told to Kick Out Communist Leadership."
E. Purge Handicaps Japanese Lconomic
necovery
The stme opinion prevailed in nokkaiao concerning the
purge ts in other areas of Japan # ich I have visited. It
nts t.e concensus that the blaiket character of the purge
resulted in removal o: any inuiviauals no had never had
ultra-netiontlistic or militaristic proclivities. The
attitude of the Jipanese toards the purge was even more
stron ly expressei by .... .illis...s, Jhief or tie Pextile Divi-
sion or the -coaomic -lu scicatilic section of this Head-
utrters who aus in .oxkciio on t vi it. ... illiais first
c.e to Jeren wit te rer. issioi. t that time l. Paul
. offman, no listrtor of te -oie orporation ot,
ti. ill ims fel tron l thet eny busintss men who were
ur tu were no  ore  ilty than ei ther of them woulu huve been
ii je.n hi o.i tie 
. illi s i t. oi a i it relt that some
of tne best brains in Je un ure bein lasted. In reciting
sone of tle liffic itits of i lcreusin illustrial tctivity in
Jop-n asiie from t'e he laicap I ni uil some of the most
cipable men, he si li out  rei tene it in t is Head-
trters t t rt i i  iviiinrsonnel,
ile  xioue to trio. uccesslully, io lot have the training
tni exreriunce necesst  in t top-notch jobs reguired to
reed Je anese reeovery. aother reason or the slow recovery
of Jepan' , colnay,  illit be icves i: thet Japanese
business men tre rticulerly heliice red by beiny uneble to go
abroui. it is orth motin thet . illic  sid thet he had
founa the Jr nese ith m ie ealt to be colmnletely co-
opere tive.
. secent -lictio! saversel alrects
F.ojuction
There is eviae ct in ciio tt he uncerttinty
attendent uron te lece.trulization roliy or tais Headquarters
has luversely affectea rogram for oiuction incretse. The
aticipated decentrli tion oi the itsui wines in Hokkaido
(suncali cnd shibetsu) -li yushu (miiki mine) has prevented
the fret interchangebility o persoinel cnd tatreby frozen
talent in one tre or tit ther. antger weguchi of the
itsui ine at unatal int inei that the mein retson why
this mine nu not been co..unized : t.e connection ith the
iiki mine in yushu, na shet should there be decentrulization,
he did not uoubt thet tht union in .itsui Hokk ido mines would
soon rill in line ith te nions or ll other mines in that
region wich re clreauy communist uominated.
SiON IV
slucution
. tuient Life ra - most tudents do Part-rime ork.
stuients of okkaido tniversity insisted that they do not
despair for the future of Jinan if only they cen surmount the
present hard times and acyuire an education so that they can
properly &ssist in correcting the evils in the government.
CONLIDLNTIAL
There

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.96)
- 25 -
There is no doubt that the life of a student in present day
Japan is harsh. President Ito said the university has no way
of helping the mejority of students in obtaining food, olothing
tnu louging. There are only two donmitories housing about s00
students with 50 others living in various builuings which are
actually not suitublt for such purposes. President Ito further
suiu thet, althou n hany students tre serious, there are some
who spend their time seeline wt's of letding & luxurious life
and thet in geaeril, he feeis thet the stuaents have
degentrated.
ne revealed also thet ...ost of the stuaents have to work
in order to stay in sc ool. he remarked that it wes not
necesstrily bud to h ve t..e stuaents ork, but that most of
the worx hes to ou wone in the daytime td is not the type of
wora clitable icr chtrtcter builiing. Phe stuuents declured
that wost of the ors avail ble is nual labor, and even
L.edical stuuents tre unable to fini work in hospitals which
would be helpful in their studies. s & result, the President
clained tntt mny stuients see.. work in bluck market activities
since it is more lucrtive aii se of it can be done at night.
D. Imnortunce of Youth und omen to the
Juture of Japan
some of these youn hen with whom 1 talked tnd also
some of the labor leaders ho are also mostly young, are
seriously trying to fin. solutions to their problems. However,
some members of militery Government wonder how much their own
efforts are accomplis.lin: in stiaulatine aelocratic ways and
in developint leadership. The ilitary Government uucation
Ofricer felt that Parent Teccher associctions had made few
contributions to de.ocratic develonment. ie cited the mejor
brignt spots as the cooperation he was getting from certain
members of school facilties anu the awakening he sensed among
women to new resnonsibilities tnl interest in community affairs.
. piritul evolution ailed.
Fresiucnt ito expresstd e..courtst.ent at the spiritutl
revolution which he is conviaceu is in progress in Japen despite
the harshness oi livin. conuitions. e stiu thet there is 
fundamentel change ta ine luce in the way people tre thinking
iich sioulu be carefully tended und nourished. e stated that
one of the benerits of such  chtnge is the strengthening of
resistance to the spretu of conmunism. In general, he stated
that cultural standards of the Jupanese people are low, but
that by education there is o ioubt that they can be elevated.
Phis same attitude hes been expressed by many leaders,
including . Nai nigeru, Fresident of Ibkyo University.
On this sane subject, an trticle written by Dr. aGawa
Toyohiko, & famous Junanese christian, is of interest. Five
6/
copies from the ippon fimes of ugust 15, 1948 are enclosed.
Dr. sagawa reviews the main achievements of the three postwar
years. In doing so, he has found thet des ite noteworthy
progress on the economic front this progress has been accompanied
by an alarming trend toward materialism and moral decadence.
hile he is not as optimistic as Presidents Ito and Nambara over
a spiritual revolution, he thinks the Japtnese will not permit
this abnormal situation to continue and declares that along
with the democratic revolution now in progress in Japan, a
spiritual
CONFIDEITIAL

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.94)
- 26 -
spiritual revolution must be pushed vigorously through eduoa-
tion and religion.
D. inancicl ifficulties Impede Progress
of ducation
Preside.it ito cited linaicial uirficulties as a major
hurale to translation of democratic methods and aims from
the idea stege to actuel realizttion. Not only do students
need financial aiu, but the university needs money to enable
its staff to be lia t livin vege, to repair und construct
essentiul buil ings,and to buy e. uirment. in addition, the
university cuthorities have the sume problem in the winter of
obtainin the nece sary coul for heating purposes as does
everyone in iokkaiuo. Last year the university had to close
down ror three months bectuse there vs no coal. The same
situation loome ror t.is winter, but the Fresident allowed the
students only one month' vucation tlis past summer in order to
maxe ur so.uewhat for the anticipated loss of time during the
winter. de saii he ouli have preferred givine all vacation
time in tae wiater, but the stude.ts pointed out that they had
to eern money iurine te swimer.
Financial uirriculties il tuucational circles are by no
means limited to the university. r. TaT Tomiyo, Mayor of
supporo, said thet the new eaucatione1 system required three
new schools with 24 clusses each. In the past, he claimed the
necessary funds for such buil ings #ere raised by floating loans.
ne stated that now the vential soveruent subsiuizes 15 per cent
of the construction cost waile 15 rer cent is raised by public
louns cnd the reaaining 70 per cent is defrayed from general
aunicipal nu public coatributions. ue to the clim te, school
builain s heve to have extre ftcilities ali to be constructed
wore sibstanticlly, but in the allocation of materials the
Jentrul overnient disregrus this iifference. since the central
Government normelly cllocttes only the sume 60 per cent of
materials re uireu ior a school buil ing in nonshu, an even
larger percentage or tie terials ir construction in iokkaido
have to be nurchesed in the blecx market.
yor rute sti that 2u,oou,Jou yen is being raised for
school builuinc funus. he colunists heve distributed
posters tlu hanubills protestin contributions, claiming thet
the centrel coverntent is responsiole for these expenses. Vice
Governor puxuut stiu thct in meny areas the only people from
whom co itribitions cun be outeincd are the olu time bosses who
then expect fuvors in retura . . end by coatrolling education,
 ich is just tie oppocite result atsirei Prom a democratic
point of vie...
 lcction o mubers of ducution ourds
There was rect colstee tinn in military Jovernment and
tnong Jenentse lecders concer ing the elcction of a school
boaru on the :ref cture1 level lunned for Cctober 5, 1948.
sotn were hanuiccrpei by lacx or infortion ts to the plens
for the elections. militury Joverlment on its on initictive
hei sou ht to ao everyt in  ossible to prevent the school
boari Irom having comiunists elected, but was discouraged at
the prosrects of success. s one means of counteracting the
communists, military Government had sou ht to cet leading
citizens to =gret to run, but had not succeeded in arousing as
much interest as ha been hoped, the in reason being that
everyone vas so preoccmpied with earning a living that he felt
CONFIDENPIAL
that

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.95)
- 27-
that he coulà not afford to devote the time necessary to do
& proper job.
as in other ptrts of the country, school teachers were
runnine for tne bourd, despite the fect that they cannot
afrord to live in sapporo. ilitary Government steted that
the Jepan Teucher's Union, wnich is coimunist dominated, had
appurently plaanei to pey the stlaries of those who were
electei. s military coverament and Jananese leaders were
convinced that most people re not comunists, their major
strateey wes to try to e.co irage a large turn out.
arparently, little previous thou nt had been given to
t..e elections for the boards ani only at the last minute was
militery covernnent trying to rina out what wes going on and
to direct activities. The Japanese Goverment ofricials also
laborea unuer dif iculties h ving receivea practictlly no
inforction tirouh their channels ala became confused by
reaaine inforction rublished ia rokyo papers. The confusion
inuicated the ifficulty or orertting at a distance from Tokyo
on ltters hich ust be henileu as lirectei frmx Tokyo.
colmment: Fears taet tae bourds might become conununist
domintted huve not me terialized. more than 60 per cent of
Juran's registereu voters cast ballots (23,196,104). Nearly
helf the voters were vomen. Pie irive f radical elements to
tane over the boards trperently failed, an encoureging result
for the Future of eaucation in Jamn.  the 296 candidates
elected to prefecturcl tni lalge city bocrds, 66 are teachers
(who must resin before being seated) anu 47 fomer teachers
or educators. Thirty-eight of the total are women.
. gerness non student to Learn bout
ierica anu its uys
There is strong eviience of an eagerness on the part of
the peorle of oklluo to leurn more ubout the united stutes
tld its type of democracy. . uxuda, the Vice Governor,
urged thet nelish shoula be the o. 2 ltngutge in all schools
and that as many nglish books und mtetzines as possible come
to mokkaiuo for use in schools and libraries. de urged this
course because with knowleige of n lish and books to read &
great many people coulu benerit. ny students he saiu would
like to co to aericu to study but retlize that not very many
can co because of the exnense involvea. mr. UraBe foshio,
assistunt Director of the vokkaiuo Jentrel Liaison and
coordinttion Office, mentioneu that Japanese students are
anxious to correspond witn stuaents in other parts of the world,
particultrly merica, but that they have no idea &s to where
they mi ht send such letters.
The Jivil Information and ducation section Library which
has recently been established in spporo fills & real need,
but its hours are such that it is closed when most people can
use it, not bein opened at ight or on sundays. owever,
people come from long distances in order to be able to use the
facilities. The strong bond between iokkaiuo ana the United
tates is inuicated by the interest aroused by the writings of
. To asahiko, Professor of criminal Law et Hokkaido
University. de has written articles on early american history
but is very much handicapped by the lack of basic materials.
ir. Urabe
CONEIDLNTIAL

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.95)
- 28-
Mr. Urabe suggested that one way to bring merican oulture
to Japan as & substitute for study abroad would be for as many
famous mericans as possible to visit dokkaido and the rest or
Japan. He praised the visits of such celebrites as Miss Helen
Leller and regretted that she was unable to visit Hokkaido.
He toli or the warm feeling of friendship for Great Britain
which was aroused by the visit of r. E. . BLUNDEN, one of
ingland's greatest poets who is now ducational adviser to the
united lingdom Liaison mission in Janan anu who was at that
time in apporo. . trate cited the instance of ir. Blunden's
reading of his poens iving his impressions of Hokkaido and
then listening to the Jtnanese read poems on the same subjeot.
Mr. Urabe expressed the hope that merican novelists,
philosorhers, tna poets might come to Japen and talk to the
generil population as well is students. He said he realized
that it wouli mean  financial loss to those who came but felt
that they coula ke  great contribution and could themselves
perhars enjoy tle becuties clu culture of Japan.
G. eea for uucrtion
There is evidence in oka ilo thet there is a tremendous
need for eaucution over t lon perioi or time -- for, as Mr.
Lukuda put it, the reuualistic background of the Japanese can-
not be eradicateu over ni ht. e saiu it is true that the
Jirenese are beginning to benave externally in & democratio
fushion but basically the cnca es they have undergone have not
proceeded fir enough to be efrective permanently. He hoped
that the democracies, particulcrly the United states, could
inculcate inerican iaerls tdaptea or course to Japanese
psycholo y tru teanement.
. uxuua expressed diseppointment, as did the Lilitary
Governnent officer in cnarge or tducation and others, at the
effectiveness of the prone nae of the ccupation as contrasted
to that of the comnunists. ie thou ht that probably it was the
fault of the Jantnese Government ither than of the Occupation,
but strongly urgeu that every efrort be mede to find effeotive
means of educatin rtorle in democrttic ideals anu practices.
SLOTION V
Cccuration Fersonnel
. merican Letaership - pifficllty of Obtuining
Top-unxinePersonnel
It is of interest thet Tice doverior Fulude pointed out
that Ja an needs coacning tnd aivice from the very highest type
of merican officieIs in orier the t, durine the rormative
neriou until the necce trecty, a nev Jeyen be moldea. He stid
that tie cour-tion hes iven the Japanese the externals
necesstry for a new J-ran but that the substtace is still
lecxing.
On this point of the need for car ble merican leaders to
aavise the Jtnanese, it is  ptrent that not only the Jepanese
but ny mericans regret that the Occupttion has not been able
to obtain the services of more of the top letders in merica.
 couent of . illias, chief or the Textile vivision of the
Lconouic a u scientific section of this Head uarters,is
revealing.
 He is well aware of the difficuity of getting first
rate

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.91)
- 29 -
rate business men to come to Jupan for a surficient time to
do t real job. it saiu tlet he hi.self when he came over with
the urener -ission ves convinceu ne coula streighten out the
Textile ivision in about 90 iays if =ccoapanied by a small
grou of men of his own choosing. iowever, he stid he found
thet des ite beine tllowed to brin the men he wished with him,
he he: inunu it much ore difficult to accomplish results here
than he hei ticiputed. mr. illia..e srid he has found the
probl sui tin i refuses to lk out ithout completing
te .  titei. ince he hes retired from his own
bsi its s i it of anonills, he is huppy to stay on.
ne ointeu t, ho tver, tnet .en etive in business would feel
that tey uoul. iant sr re us muet tine us he had found would be
lectssery to uuolish  iven bjective.
ith resrect to Jujulese ltdere, it s aiscouraging to
find eviueace Pro. iscussioas itn orlicials of the ivil
intelli  ce sorps tat t.t cccurttie hus been direoting the
uetails or Je wncst -if-ii: to ich un txtent that Japanese
le-uers tre  rone to ie-ve iliti-tive cla decisions to the
Cccupation. some Juohese leuer licubtedly lo tis because
t..e uo ot . ich o be iuentiiitu : resronsible for policies
ch are  t to be un oyulur. It i: clear thet Japanese
ltauers shoul. be e.coie ed to tu..t cver more nd more govern-
meat responsibilities before tht tad of the Occupetion in
rder thet tit trta.ition lroi the Cccup tion to  more normal
state of affairs ioes iot resilt in chuos.
L. misbeh vior of herica Troops und mesent-
ment it i htr tt lderu of Living of the
Occunetion
in t.t oninion oi  ny sources, it i cletr thet the
behavior or soe me. .bers of tle Cccujution letracts from
trict ca l c cautrsni. rhe military Government
-llcation rricer, in -rticular, cl l.meu that the type of
.I. bein set to Jn .. is oin the united tates ore
harm then. oou. e steted tht uehese filies would not
llo their atunters to o out t ni it vith u. . soluiers
u that unpleasunt instances ere routine -- Jupanese Eirls
being attacked Lad Jurunest men mciled.
as the jority of J nese cen only juuge nericans
by those Wo are fart of the Occupetion, he tries to counter-
act this deluging reaction oy tellin Jupenest thet most of the
boys in the arny cnd most of the civilians an not misbeirave
anu that it is just as bad for ericuas to juuge ll Japenese
by their ctivities uurin the wer or by Juranese street
walxers, as it is for thei to juige lericans by the tctions
of the few who create disturbaices. vespite the misbehavior
on the art of  sill nuaber of erictns it is cletr thet
the Jurehese would rather have merican troops present than
ftce the risx of being over-run by the ussians.
another interesting point mentioned by the ducttion
Officer is the resentment aroused by the stand&rd of living
of the ccupation. For & lone time in pporo, all the best
buildings na l&ygrounds vere taken over by the Occupation.
hile some of the buildines and playerounds have been returned
to the Jananese, the Occupation as everywhere in Japan uses
the best nomes und buildings and hes large retinues of servants.
The communists of course make great moment out of the
ONFIETTIL
Occupation

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.95)
- 30 -
Occupation standard of living, citing it as causing the low
standard of living of most Jupanese und as being far higher
then the standerd in merice itself.
SECTION VI
Perce Treaty
n. esire for urly rttce Preaty.
In general, prevailin o inion in oklaido seemed to be
that Jtnenese leaders and -eople aesire in end of the
Occunetion in its present forin but hope that folloving the
peace treaty there vill be some gutrantee of protection against
the Ussn. This uesirt for un etcly peace treaty wts best
expressea by .. ubota leua of the iokkeiuo Jentral Liaison
tiu voorainition Cifice, who rointed out that Jepan and the
allieu rowers tre still technicelly at var even though three
years heve elersed so that any things are tbnormal. In his
opinion most of tne vorlu stends to  tin by having un early
petce treat. ie said he realiced that ussia is responsible
for the lacx of a peace treety out he is convinced thet it
would be to tle adva ittge of Janan and most of the allies to
proceed with the peace treaty even thou:h it wight have to be
inde without the sovitt union.
He went on to sey that the best means of making peace with
the Uss.. woulu have to be ftced later. ie hoped that the
Occupation forces vouli continue to renain in Japan after the
peace treaty throu n arrangements sinilar to ones which ere in
force ith Great prittin. de said he felt that an agreement
coulu be made nith Jinan ror navel bases and air fields if the
united tates wished, tnd expressed the hope that eventually,
in lieu of cccunation forces, there uight be & contingent of
United ations police staioned in Junan.
SLOTION VII
reports
as was pointed out at tlt beginnine of tiis memorandum,
visits were maie to severtl basic inuustries. t most of
trese 1 was presented with a recent report prepered by the
manuge.ent for visitors from t is leadyuarters. some of the
dete presented in this memoranuum has been obttined from these
renorts. One copy of cach of the folloving reports is
enclosed:
71
Outline or lokkaiuo, compiled by Phe Bank
of Jepn, sapporo ranch, september 1948.
8/
xplunetion or The sunagawa sactory Toyo
igh Pressure Inuustry ompany, Itd.),
september 22, 1948.
9/
C.
Cutline of The anishi orks, Japan lron
x steel company, Ltd., muroran Hokkaido.
september 1948.
10/
D.
Outline of muroren Plant of Japan Steel
works, Lta. (Kabushiki kaishi ihon -
Seikojo), uroran Hokkaido.
CONFIDENPLL
L. Outline

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.92)
- 31 -
11/
. Outline of Sunagewa Coal Mine Mitsui
Mining Company, Lta., Location: 22,
amisunagawa, sunagawa-machi, Norachi-
gun iokkaido.
12/
F.
xplanetion of he Teikoku Sen-i Company,
sapporo Plant.(Teikoku-Sen-i Kabushiki
ish pporo ojol, ay 1948.
13/
j.
Sumary planation on The uroran Ship
Yaru of The Hkodtte vock company, Ltd.,
ugust 20, 1=48.
14/
s.
The listory thu Cutline of The Hokkaido
o-onertive iry compeny, Ltd.(Hokkaido
uno oo tbusniki sisha). January
1943.
15/
I.
test ncrel inrortion on dokkaido,
publisheu --u ust 1s, 1948, prepared by
Ofrice or mi istrative nesearch,
voxke iuo Government three copies of
Junenese text).
16/
J. .batly militery overmment zetivities
neport, compiled by neaduarters,
iokktiuo .ilitary tovernment District,
..urust 1943.
Phe booxlet entitled Lttest General Infontation on
loxxaido was prerared ts a ptrt of a campaign to disseminate
infolmation concerning the importance of Hokkeido in the re-
abilitction of Jtnan. The au ust l943 onthly ilitary
Governaent -etivities -trort cives the hi hlignts of prob-
Tems iu activities in iokkuido for th month
forelgn service Officer
,enclosures listed on rollowing Pegel
Tokyo, November 15, 1643.
<CONKIDENTIAL

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.95)
-32-
Enclosures:
1. Itinerary of F3O i. Henry Lawrence, Jr.
on trip to Hokkaido.
2.
List of Japanese Officials and B :siness
Men .et by W. Henry Lawrence, Jr., during
Trip to Hokkaido.
3.
Copy of ..otirication Concerning Student
rolitical ovenents, with Japanese text.
1..
Copy of neport Concerning Arrests of
Hational tailwey Employees, together with
Japanese Text.
Copy of article from Jippon Times of
September 30, 1942.
C.
Five Copies of Article by Dr. Toyohiko
KAGANA from Hippon Times, Au ust 15, 1y4?.
7.
Out!ine or Hok aido, Compiled by The Bank
of Japan, ppro ranch, September 948.
E.
Ex l:nation of The Sunagawa Factory (Toyo
Hi h .ressure industry Co pany, Ltd.),
Septeber 22, 9.
9.
Outline of The Hanishi orks, Jrpen iron
& Steel Company, utd., uroran iokkaido.
September 194.
10.
Out ine of uroren .lint of Japan teel
Works, Ltd. (Nabushiki Laishi Mihon -
Seikojo), uroran liokkaido.
11.
Out Line of Suna awa Coal ine .itsui ining
Company, Ltd., Location 22, .amisunagawa,
Suna awa-machi, .orachi un Hokkaido.
12.
-x.lanation of The Teikoku Sen-i Co pany,
Sapporo lant. (Teikoku Sen-i nabushiki
r.aisha pro ojo), ay 194.
13.
Junmary xplanation on The uroran Ship
Yard of The Hakodate Dock Coapany, td.,
Au ust 20, 48.
14.
The History nd outline of The nokkaido
Co-operative Dairy Company, Ltd. (okkaido
Lakuno Kyodo Nabushiki Kaisha). Jnuary
1948.
15.
Latest Genera iniormation on okkaido,
published Au ust 15, 1/8, rrepared by
Office of Administrative Research,
Hokkaido Governnent (three copies of
Japanese text).
16.
.ontnly .ilitary Government Activities
Report, compiled by Headquarters,
Hokkaido ..ilitary Government District,
August 1948.
N
HLawrenceJr/eg
Original ind hectograph to the Department.
GONF IDENTIAL

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.96)
CONF IDENTIAL
Sub-Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's No. 742 of
November 22, 1948.
(Enclosure No.  to
dated November 15, 1948)
ITINERARY OF FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER W. H. LAWRENCE,
JR., SEPTEMBER 17-28, 1948, ON VISIT TO HOKKAIDO AC-
COMPANIED BY MATSUO CHUEI, INTEHPRETER.
September 17 - riday
22:45
Leave Tokyo by rail.
e
19 - sunday
01:20
arrive vomori, via Koyama,
Mito, sendai, Yamagata,
Shinsho, amarume (on Japan
Sea side), akita, and
Roshiro, because of damage
from typhoon of Sept. 16.
n
02:30
Leave omori by ferry boat,
but on same train.
07:30
arrive Hakodate
08:20
Leave Hakodate
n
16:20
arrive sapporo (stayed at
Grand Hotel).
september 20 - onday
sapporo
September 21 - Tuesday
sapporo
September 22 - ednesdty 08:30
Leave Sapporo
18
11:30
arrive Sunagawa
15:00
Leave Sunagawa via automobile.
te
15:30
arrive itsui's Sunagawa Coal
mine (stayed at Mitsui's
Club House).
September 23 - Thursday
11:08
Leave sunagawa
13:10
arrive asahigawa
n
17:30
Leave asahigawa
n
20:54
arrive sapporo (stayed at
Grand Hotel)
September 24 - Friday
21:30
Leave Stpporo
september 25 - Saturday
02:00
arrive Noboribetsu (stayed
at Grand Hotel).
n
08:10
Leave Noboribetsu
8
09:10
arrive Muroran
19:30
Leave Muroran for Noboribetsu
via automobile.
20:30
arrive Noboribetsu.
September 26 - sunday
23:45
Leave Noboribetsu.
September 27 - onday
06:00
arrive Hakodate.
07:00
Leave Hakodate.
11:30
arrive vomori
13:00
Leave vomori
September 28 - Tuesday
09:50
arrive Tokyo via akita,
Yamagata, Sendai, Mito, and
Tsuchiura due to incomple-
tion of repairs of wash-outs
by recent typhoon.
CONEIDENTIAL

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 2 to Memorandumd
(For Department use only)
November 15, 1948 (Sub-Enelosur
Tokyo's No. 742 of November 22,
LIST OF JAPANESE OFFICIaLS AND BUSINESS MEN MET BY
FOREIGN SERVICE OFFICER W. H. LAWRENCE, JR. DURING
OFFICLaL TRIP TO HOKKAIDO, SEPTEMBER 1948.
1.
GOVERNMENT OFFICILS:
TaNaKa Toshifumi, Governor of Hokkaido.
UnD Tonan, Vice Governor of dokkaido.
UGIOI shotaro, hief of pporo Bureau of commerce
and Industry.
KUBOTe Kanichiro, virector of iokkaido central Liaison
and coordinetion Office.
U.uBi Toshio, ssistant Director of Hokkaido Central
Liaison and coordination Office.
TaiTn Tomiyo, yor of pporo.
IShIloTo Yoshihiro, ttorney General, Spporo.
ITo asaru, Procurator, sapporo High Procurators Office.
KaTo Shigemasa, ssistant Frocurator, pporo High
Procurators Office.
To sahiko, Judge, pporo igh court and Professor
of criminal Law at Hokkaido University.
NOJIaI Osamu, chief Fublic Frosecutor of sapporo
District Public Frosecutors Office.
BaNTo fidetaro, speaker, Hokkaido ssembly.
Ya.LaGID Haruo, Liaison Orficer, sahigawa ub-
Prefectural Government.
2.
CHIEF EDITOA NENSPAPER:
SI higeru, irector tnd aitor-in-chief, Hokkaido
himbun hu, Itd.
3.
LNaGNT:
Toyo High Pressure Industry company, Lta., Sunagawa-machi,
Karachi-gun, Hokkaido:
SUGIU Ban, nager.
MIhana Shigetoshi, Vice chief ingineer.
Yoro Hisashige, ssistnt hief, usiness
Department.
OkaYa maharu, General fftirs Division.
Mitsui's Sunagawa Joal ine, sunagawa-machi, erachi-gun,
Hokkaido:
KawaGucHI Chyu, General Superintendent of Mitsui
sunagawa Jolliery.
SaIkI riyoshi, assistant General Superintendent.
KOGa Shohei, Business Superintendent.
aTSUSHITa Hokao, Chief, dministrative Division.
IUCHI Kazuo, Chief, administrative Sub-Division.
LMDa lbert M., Interpreter.
SHIoKaia Kiyoshi, Labor Section, concurrently
archives Section in dministrative Department
(recent repatriate from Ussr).
Hokkaido
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
November 15, 1948 (Sub-Bnelo
Tokyo's No. 742 of November 22,
Hokkaido Cooperative Dairy co., Ltd., 36 Naiho-machi,
Sapporo:
SHIONOYA Heizo, Vice President, Hokkaido
Cooperative Dairy Farm Company, Ltd.,
and Chairman of Hokkaido Dairy Farmers'
associεtion.
SaIJI shoichi, Standing Director, Hokkaido
Cooperative Dairy Farm Company, Ltd.,
and ntger, centrel Bank of Cooperative
Societies, Tokyo.
anishi orks, Japan Iron and steel Company, Ltd.,
12 anishi-machi, Muroran:
KaHanU Mikiji, mnager.
OK shigeru, Chief, Liaison and General
Reparations ffairs Section, Nanishi Works.
Japan teel orks, Ltd., uroran orks, 4 Chatsu-machi,
Muroran.
NoTh Ichiro, acting Chief, xecutive Department.
KUNICHIK. Sadao, Chief, Business Department.
KaMOSHITa Kokki, cting Chief of the Muroran Works.
SHIYaMn Daizaburo, Liaison Officer.
Hakodate Dock Company, uroran shipyard, 128 Shukutsu-
machi, Muroran:
HaKUsUI Matsuzo, Head of Hull Department.
KOaI Koichi, Chief, administrative Division.
KOkI Yutak, chief, supplies sub-section.
4. LaD011:
Mitsui's sunagawa coal mine, sunagawa-machi, sarachi-
gun, Hokkaido:
YaTSUHaSHI seiichi, Secretary-General, General
Federation of Japan coal wine Workers'
Unions, Hokkaido Branch.
MaTSUkoTo shigeru, a member of Standing xecu-
tive Committee and Vice Chairman of Sunagawa
Labor Union.
Wanishi Works, Jupan Iron and steel Company, Ltd., 12
wanishi-machi, Luroran:
NaGaiNO Yukio, Vice Chairman, wanishi Iron and
Steel Labor Union.
Hakodate Dock Company, uroran hipyard, 128 Shukutsu-
machi, Muroran:
MaSE Shigeo, xecutive committee and Chief of
Welfare, Muroran Branch of Hakodate Dock
Branch of all Japan shipbuilding Labor Union.
OKITa Kazuo, Lxecutive Committee und Chief of
Lducation and Propaganda, Muroran Branoh
of Hakodate Dock Branoh of all Japan
Shipbuilding Labor Union.
Toyo
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.94)
Toyo High Pressure Industry Company Ltd., Sunaga
KOrlDn Chuji, Ex-Chairman, Toyo Koatsu
Hokkaido Labor Union, and also a member
of liokkeido Labor Commission.
OkUwaKI Kenji, Chier, Production Division,
Labor Ünion (of this company).
aY Tomiyo, Organization Chief, Labor Union.
Tas Katsuichi, chief secretary of the
Company's Labor Union.
dokkaido Lbor congress:
Y Chokichi, haiman.
MUnKI Yukari, chief Secretary.
Neutral Unions:
YI skuo, okkaio Lranch, ll Japan
cotl ine union (Tanro or Nihon Tanko
bdo umiai Domei).
uoTo so, hief, Generl ffairs sub-
Division, sapporo city Office, and
chairman of the Executive Committee of
Spporo city Office mployees Union.
Generl sederation or Jupuntse Frade unions (Sodomei
or sippon ouo umiai souomei):
MSnI Tadao, Vice vier of Organizing
Division.
TUkOTO ajine, member of ecutive Committee.
Japan steel orks, iti., murortn norks Labor Union:
HOslls. Kunio, secrettry General, Nihon
eikosho urorn eisakusho odo Kumiai
TJcpen steel orks, Ltd., muroran morks
Labor Jnion.
Covernnent ilway orkers' Union (Kobutetsu odo
Rumiai):
conductor on trtin fro.. pporo to sanigawa.
tationlaster at sunagaa.
5.
BANKLNS:
KaGIYa toru, ssistant nger, pporo Branch,
Bank of Japan.
iU Torao, Lneger of pporo ranch, Bank of
Japan.
HInos keiichi, President, iokkaido olonization
Bank, Lta., spporo.
6.
EDUU TO S ND TUDLNTS T HOLK IDO UNIVEnSITY:
ITO Seiya, President, Jokkaido University.
MTsUDa Takeo, irector of Hokkaido University
Library.
SikIGana Kazuo, Student in ingineering, chairman,
all Students' council.
SaTo Hisaji, Student in griculture, member of
all Students' Council.
YANAGIDA
SONFIDENTIRL

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's No. 742 of
YANaGIDA Takashi, Student in Medicine, Chier
Secretary, All Students' Council.
NOMURA Kenzo, Student in Law, Economies and
Literature, member of all Students'
Council.
MaTSUo Noboru, Student in Fishery, Hokkaido
University.
CONEIDLNTIAL

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 3 to Memorandum dat
November 15, 1948 (Sub-Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 742 of November 22, 1948).
COPY
Hatsu-gaku no. 458
8 October 1948
From: Vice inister or ducation.
To:
Prefectural Governor, Presidents and Heads
of Higher Institutions.
subject: concerning tudent Folitical Movements.
It is a matter of course that the political activities
of students anu their political education should conform to
what is regulated by the constitution anu the Fundamental
Law of ducation, etc. The Notirication of the Vice
Minister of ducation, January 17, 1947, chiefly meant that
nothing shoula be left unsatisfactory on the occasion of
the abolition of the egulations for the Maintenance of
the Public Peace. Limuediately after the tudents' strike
in June, in which wost of those in the universities and
colleges throu hout the country participeted, the inister
of education broadcasted through the radio, and the steno-
graphic notes of his speech were distributed to all the
schools. rhe authorities of each school should peruse
those papers anu resort to every sure means of education
according to their purport. Yet there are many people who
heve yuestions &bout the limits of the political movement
of the student, nd we in the inistry of ducation shall
express our viers for tne purpose of reference.
I. The freedom of research and criticism of politics
shoulu be respectea at school, so that every student may
have understandin and be tble to voluntarily exercise
their suffrage with responsibility. (See the Fundamental
Lew of iducation .rt. VIII, per. I).
II. a school regulated by the chool ducation Law
shoula, hovever, be the sphere of learning and educttion,
ana never be the steee of party strife. It should,
accordin ly, observe politic-l neutrality and maintain the
order of the institution. (see the Fundamental Law of Educa-
tion art. VIlI, par. II). any political movement that
should disturb the oruer in the school should not be
allowed.
III. ny student shouli not be abriaged of his free-
dom of participating in & society or an association, but it
should be strictly &voided to have the branch of any
special political party or any such outside association in
the school, lest the political neutrality of the school
and the independence of education should be threatened.
Iv. It is a problem of educational administration
that adeyuate consideration should be given to the limits
of students' ability for political responsibilities -- the
characteristics of the school,the school regulations,
students'
CONEIDENTIAL

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.97)
CONPIDENTIAL
-2-
Enclosure No. 3 to Memoranda
Tokyo's No. 742 of November 22, 19
students' standings ani their ages (for instance, whether
they have franchise or not) -- to what extent their
politicrl activities shouli be tolerated in the school.
V. The autonolous activities of the student in the
school will ntturally be the subject of education to which
ell the st ff inclu in the director shoulu be responsible
to ive prover guidence. ny traversing organization out-
side or the school shoulu not be cllowed from the point of
the selr-goveraing chet cter of the school to control the
intention of ny iniiviiual school -- including the
director, the terchin staff tnu the students.
VI. tuients re lirferent from laborers in their
social position ani responsibility, anu the characteristics
of their move...e t sioulu clso be uifferent from that of
leborers. It is inepnropriate that the novement of the
student shoulu model fter tnet of the laborer and cooperete
with it.
VII. so long as our politics aim at parliamentary
deluocracy it is auvistble that tll the students in the
school should be encouriged to have the confidence and
decision to brtvely uanifest their intention, as well as
to express their positive cooperetion, in order that any
direct cctioa or sway of designing minority may be driven
away, and -oper execution of their suffrage and correct
reflection or their general intention may be extended
either in their political movement outside of the school
or in their self-goveraing tctivities inside the school.
dditional nemarks:
1. Froper proceedin s shoula be taken in case a
student group ic  cin: to rarticipate in any political
uctivities.
2. The rise of tuition fee in the national schools
is to be decided in the iet, nu the principle of its
ptyuent shoulu be strictly observed.
Extension of the time or divided payaent will be
allowed for those ho ale under special circumstanoes and
yet have the intention to pay, but such speciel allowance
should not be abused.
3. The rumored contents of the negulations of the
Board of Trustees in the University rem in still to be
considered, tnd not even in the stage of composing the
concrete draft.
It is not auvisablt to object to the image of
visionary regulations.
"e have added these remarks for caution's sake.
COPY
CONFIDENTIL

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
ARRESTS OF N
NATIONAL
RAILWAY EMPLOYEES IN CONNECTION WITH LABOR DISPUTES
(Translation) - As of September 20, 1948, 3:00 P.M.
(Proc. Office)
No. of
Returned
Warrants
Frose-
At
Search Headquarters
Place of Work
Deserters
to
work
Issued
Arrested
Detained
cuted
Released
Larg
8x
Sapporo
Oiwake Union
242
106
219
96
72
41
53
36
1948
Washibetsu Union
23
3
23
10
10
7
1
13
742
Higashi Muroran Union
28
11
18
5
4
1
2
9
Tomakomai Union
47
20
35
22
21
16
9
9
15
Naiho Kokibu
326
280
63
37
36
31
6
26
(Mechanic Dept)
Sunagawa Union
11
0
12
10
10
0
9
2
Oteru Union
12
0
9
3
3
1
1
6
Other
0
0
3
3
2
1
1
0
Total
689
420
382
186
158
98
82
101
Hakodate
Hakodate Union
32
12
21
6
6
3
3
15
Goryokaku Union
7
0
10
10
10
7
1
0
Tokkonai Union
3
0
3
0
0
0
3
Oshamanbu
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
4
Total
42
12
33
16
16
10
4
22
Asahigawa
Shintoku Union
65
28
74
57
30
20
34
17
Furano Union
117
78
69
54
52
5
48
15
Fukaana Union
18
2
18
3
3
0
3
15
Asahi~awa
28
0
39
17
14
5
11
22
Total
228
108
200
131
107
30
96
69
Kushiro
Obihiro Union
37
25
18
18
12
3
7
Ikeda Union
13
12
12
4
4
1
Kushiro Union
C
31
7
7
0
7
24
Make Shibetsu Union
30
7
4
4
2
0
3
Total
67
0
76
41
41
18
14
35
Kitami
Fitari nion
22
3
21
13
12
14
6
3
Tokaru Union
4
3
7
3
1
4
1
Iotal
30
7
29
25
15
15
10
4
Grand Total
1,056
547
725
399
337
171
206
231
Indicted 171; Released 206; Disposition pending 22 - Total 399.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.98)
1978
o  te
9 to
ARRESTS
CE MATIONAL RAILHAY EPLOYES
COMMOTION MITH LADOR DISPUTES
2
(Translation) - As of Sentember 20, 1948, 3:00 P.M.
2 e
(Troc. (ffice)
o. of
Returned
Varrants
Frose-
At
Search
leadcuarters
Flace of Work
Deserters
to
work
Issued
irrested
Detained
cuted
Released
Large
Sapporo
Oiwake Union
242
106
219
96
72
41
53
36
Mashibetsu Union
23
3
23
10
10
7
1
13
Higashi uroren nion
28
11
18
5
4
1
2
9
Tomakomai Union
47
20
35
22
21
16
9
9
No
Maiho Hokibu
326
280
63
37
36
31
6
26
ncure
Novber
( echanic Pept)
s
Sunarawa inion
11
0
12
10
10
0
9
2
Tolky
Cteru Union
12
0
9
3
3
1
1
6
Other
0
0
3
3
2
1
1
0
Total
689
420
382
186
153
98
82
101
liakodate
Hakodate inion
32
12
21
δ
5
3
3
15
Goryokaku Union
7
0
10
10
10
7
1
0
Mokkonai Union
3
0
3
0
0
0
3
Oshamanbu
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
4
Total
42
12
33
16
16
10
4
22
Asahigawa
Shintoku Union
65
28
74
57
30
20
34
17
Furano Union
117
78
69
54
52
5
48
15
Fukagawa Union
18
2
18
3
3
0
3
15
Asahigawa
28
0
39
17
14
5
11
22
Total
228
108
200
131
107
30
96
69
Kushiro
Obihiro Union
3
25
18
18
12
3
7
37
Ikeda Union
0
13
12
12
4
4
1
Kushiro Union
0
31
7
7
0
7
24
Naka Shibetsu Union
30
0
7
4
4
2
0
3
Total
67
0
76
41
41
18
14
35
Kitami
Kitami Union
22
3
21
18
12
14
6
3
Tokaru Union
8
4
8
7
3
1
4
Total
30
7
29
25
15
15
10
Grand Total
1,056
547
725
399
337
171
206
Indicted 171; Released 206; Disposition pending 22 - Total 399

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.95)
19748)
Énc  ted
ov to
ARESTS CF ALL
O UNICATICNS
 ODC  LR DISUTES
(Translation) - As ef Santember 20, 1948 - 3:00 p.m.
22
No   2vv ber
Search
eadquarters
0.
eturned
iorrents
irose-
At
(Froc.
Office
Place of ork
Deserters
to work
Issued
irrested
Detained
Cuted
Released
Large
Sapporo
sepporo Jormunica-
ticn Office
1
0
0
0
0
1
Otaru fort Cfrice
ü
3
2
5
5
1
3
3
Ctaru Construction
Cffice
0
5
5
5
0
0
0
Otaru haiun Fort
s
Office
C
J
1
J
0
0
1
Tolkyo
Atsuka lost cffice
C
1
J
0
0
1
Yoichi lort uffice
J
2
2
0
1
Iwanai lort tffice
4
1
1
1
0
3
Aenihako lost Cffice
j
3
2
0
0
0
0
2
Ebetsu lost cffice
0
C
1
0
0
0
0
1
Ebetsu . ishi rost cffice
j
1
0
0
1
1
Tomakomai lost office
12
5
C
0
1
7
2
ubari lost frice
0
14
3
3
1
2
11
1
Total
0
53
31
15
5
6
32
llakodate
ccate
ere
j
J
7
7
7
1
6
0
Cifice
hakodate Post Cfrice
C
0
7
7
7
7
0
0
Nodaoi lost Office
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
1
Sunahara lost Cffice
0
0
2
2
2
0
0
0
Total
0
0
17
16
16
8
6
1
OIA
Asahigawa
Asahicawa Fost Office
0
0
9
1
1
0
0
8
Wakkanai Fost Cffice
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
Fukagawa Fost Office
0
0
4
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
14
1
1
0
0
13
Kushiro
Kushiro Fost Office
Shintoku rost Office
0
0
0
0
7
4
0
3
0
3
0
0
0
0
Total
0
0
11
3
3
0
0
Grand Total
0
0
95
41
38
13
12

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.95)
o ted
194 (-r to
)Fr 2 11948)
LIST
MULBBR CF CASES MANDLED
∴D
DISICSEP CF AT TUBLIC ROCURATORS
OFFICES
Tm
JURISDIOTICN CF 
S.UFORO
HIGH PUBLIC PROCURATORS
OFFICE
January - Aurust
1948
Translation)
742
Local Iublic
uther of Jases Already Disnosed of
Frocurators
o.Cases
Discontinued or
irosecution
Summary
Fublic
ncure
Office
Received
Transferred
ortroned
Dismissed
Ircceedincs
earings
otal
Fending
Novber
S
TOH
Sapporo
26,411
6,900
5,407
1,770
4,789
3,804
22,130
4,281
Hakodate
10,893
2,461
3,027
261
1,843
1,090
9,282
1,611
1
Asahigawa
9,536
1,970
2,243
522
1,384
592
7,366
2,160
3
1
Kúshiro
14,069
3,090
5,703
738
1.224
637
11,392
2,677
Total
60,899
14,421
16,380
3,891
9,240
6,123
50,170
10,709
ONNAL

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL
-4-
Enclosure No. 4-to
dated November 15, 194
Enclosure to Tokyo's No.
of November 22, 1948).
FIXED NUMBER CF ROCURATORS AND ADIINISTRATIVE
OFFICERS
As of September 20, 1948
Sapporo
High Public Frocurators
(Translation)
Office
Vice
Adm.
lame of Office
rocurators Irocurators Cfficers
Total
Sapporo High Fublic
(日)
10
0
22
32
Frocurator's Cffice
(b)
5
0
13
15
(c)
5
0
9
14
Sapporo Local Fublic
Irocurator's Cffice
(e)
17
90
100
126
(b)
14
99
121
(c)
3
1
1
5
Hakodate Locel Tublic
Irocurator's Cffice
(e)
3
7
56
71
(b)
7
43
42
53
(c)
1
14
18
Asahicawe Local Fublic
Frocurator's Cffice
(a)
3
7
47
62
(b)
7
6
41
54
(c)
1
1
6
8
Kushiro Local ublic
I'rocurator's Cffice
(a)
9
9
49
67
(b)
7
5
40
52
(c)
2
4
9
15
total
(a)
52
32
274
358
(b)
40
23
235
298
(c)
12
9
39
60
Note:
(a) - Fixec number of personnel prescribed.
(b) - Present number of personnel.
(c) - Shortage of personnel.
REMARKS: No surplus personnel.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.66)
治安藝察法魔止二伴匕教職員及学生生徒人政治
二至り且衆龍員通舉法八改正二依り学生生徒二
得少多ル七八多力ル心十二鑑之今殺教驗員及學生生
運動二付子八左配二依ルコ卜卜致之之力趣旨微為方
相漢度此段及依命通
一治安書察法魔止七之レ教聽員及学生生改治
十キコ卜卜相成夕ルモ之二傳フ政治通八
一
第二學親內二黃分人教員及学生生徒政節
支持乃至推薦行為等（文二依ル七八含
21
但之增八學破內二於ケ人學生生徒等八改治二開又自
七八二非ザ八一以于昭和二十年十月二十二日付合
書「日本救書制度二対久ル管理政策」中一日人次
スコト
二處八衆議諸漢國立侯福及其通舉遠助二開之元

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.91)
右念の僞め申添える
給じて架空の法案等を作つてその幻影に反対する等はこらない所で

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.63)
汪拾字則字生の才分年今例八は退拳仙の有一事
以明人仕死力の限外を十分考はして七にそんの夜に
足せらるんさ到育行政上の間心である
五夜にむける字生の自治活幼は当然字校長はじめ數殺貞か貴任
以て指母すべさ動育上の映でさってっ学外の補斷的
こ孔に九して圖々の子校一反長言字王を念日た一の志
外品上り拘來する禄な乙とは字生目治助の陛伯から肝さるべ
4
六子王と方剛者とは置会的地山及び正四方ろものであ
ことり乂こ孔と協同することは週当でい
七我か四の政か國会氏主主致巡七て以上役外
る以旧動において字因門の自治いて直按行
成心る少の支しりそけ公た學催の行使と
生のの正しい反ためにての牢生か的曲力示十と
とに然として目分の心を祝明丁惟氣至つ指
せらんたい
一か一政るのとし
い一十一十
一一以其のの体の卷
し又の志あるもので又の者に對して
ふけんはならない。
え大のだの出
いものであつて具体的作まで王ていない

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.68)
一十
叫
四第三十日

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.86)
CONFIDENTIAL
Enclosure No. 4 to Memorandum date
November 15, 1948 (Sub-Enclosure to
Tokyo's No. 742 of November 22, 1948).
产
=
N

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.94)
檢察官及檢察事務官定員慶
昭和23年9月20日現在
札幌高等檢察廳
名
医分
檢
事
剩檢事
檢察事務官
計
備
定
員
10
22
32
札幌高檢
现在員
5
13
18
通
過不足
5
9
14
利
定民
17
9
100
126
人
札幌地检
现在員
14
8
99
121
員
過不足
3
1
1
5
定
員
8
7
56
71
L
面館地檢
現在員
7
4
42
53
遇不足
7
3
14
18
定
-8
7
47
62
旭用地檢
現在員
7
6
41
54
遇不足
7
1
6
8
定
員
9
9
49
67
網路地檢
现在員
7
5
40
52
過不足
2
929
15
定
52
32
274
358
现在员
0
23
23594
298
通不足
12
9
39
60

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.93)
枯幌高等检察方管内事1件处分表（皇昭世年月）
地方桓新
受理
滑
未湯
中上、移送起舞衡 不死称 右式
公判
計
札幌
26.411
6:900
5.407 1.770
4789
3.80422.130
4.281
函馆
10.893
2.461
3.027
261
1.843
1.090
9.282
1611
旭川
9.536
1.970
2.243
522
1.384
592
7366
2.160
釧路
14.069
3.090
5:703
738
1.224
637
1.392
2.677
計
60.899/14.421/16.380
3.891 9.240
6.123 50190 10.709

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.76)
1
·儿
1+1
三元
o.
王一
111
t
7
川
r
111
11
目1
0
11
4
11
目
目
河
04
目11
1
111
111
11
11
1
F: 11
 J川1
t=1
111
1111
F
自1
C
7
B
F1
111
11
14
1
11
F1
目
F1
111
7
+1
=1
六川1
目
1川
C
4
C
1
C
P
c!
σ!
C
K
F1
111
!川1
二
左
PI
冰ン1
111川1
1
11
11
11
0
0
111
111
C
4
11
。!
C
11
5
冰川
11
SN
L
11
111
CV
十月
1四
F
11
1111
1
十川1
目
1501
1元

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.77)
九月二十
日
職陽職場逮捕
補句曲起析祝放
未遠
備序
人
4
札
1
0
D
0
a
2
D
2
n1
0
日
0
1三
五
4
日
五三
六三二
4
六
三
0
目
0
日
0
2
0
目
九五四一一三八
五四

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo'
COPY
Unions Told to Kiok Out Communist
Leadership
By: rutherford Poats,
United Press Correspondent.
 leading member of SCaP's Labor Division yesterday
called on all Japanese labor unions to rid themselves of
Communist domination and form a National Labor Party
modeled on the British pattern.
Richard L. G. veverell, Chief of the Labor Education
Branch, told a press conference that his advice wa based
on SCaP policy statements made in 1946 and never sinee
revoked.
"If Japanese labor is to become effective politically,
I think the time has come for the unions which are not
already dominated by the Communist Party to consider banding
into a political party which would be run by the unions
and represent the unions' interests.
"Most of the so-called union political activity in
the last three years has been that of the 'red samurai.'
Their mass meetings, waving of red flags, singing of
fancy songs and so on is simply foolish and useless. Its
a waste of calories," r. Deverall continued.
"The test of political effectiveness is how many
votes you've got in the Diet, not how many people you. can
mass in the Imperial Plaza."
He charged that Japanese unions have continually
mis-used their new freedoms and abused the right to strike.
"The red samurai, (or radical leadership) have,
through the use of the strike, driven the Japanese labor
movement to the brink of disaster," r. Deverall said.
He praised the Democratization League for its
continuing attack on this leftist leadership and said,
"The league has made amazing progress in the last three
or four months in Sambetsu (NcIu) unions reported to be
Communist-dominated."
He said that both the big NCIU and the Japan
Communications Workers Union were Commmunist-controlled
at the top "and make no bones about it."
From the Nippon Times - September 30, 1948.
COPY
CONFTDENTIAL

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTIO
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OFFICE
OF THE
OF EUROPEAN AFFLIRS
ÜNITED STATES OF AMERICA
American Embassy,
London, November 24, 1948
AIR MAIL
UNCLASSIFIED
GUIVISION OF
18-xR2.
No. 2322
NORTHEAST
Subject: The Far East in Parliament
JAN - 5 1949
DEPARTMENT
841.655
6
DER
STATE
H
12
The Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
iS
CE
至
s18
C
I have the honor to report that the Far East
attracted more attention than usual in the presgnt agasion
of Parliament. Following excerpts from the prinoipal
questions and answers, as recorded in Hansard.
Japan.
November 4, 1948.
"Mr. Rhodes: . .. I had the privilege of being
in Japan last October and November with the Parliamentary
it
delegation which was sent out from this House. Since
that time, I have taken a great deal of interest in
DED
the progress of the economic development of Japan.
OLI
Some of that development, mainly textiles, conoerns
constituents of mine who work in cotton mills, the
NEA
trade which I am engaged in, namely, the woollen trade,
u/FAH
and also affects the rayon industry, real silk and the
manufacture of it in Macclesfield.
DC/R
"It might be a good thing in developing my point
if I were, in some slight measure to go over the prin-
oipal operation, the occupation of Japan, and what has
happened since. When General MacArthur ocoupied Japan,
after a series of brilliant viotories in the Pacific,
YR740.
he had three main tasks: one, the occupation; two,
Control
the destruction of the military potential of Japan; and,
three, the setting up of a new politioal entity and the
Tar
introduction of democratio methods. The first--the
pccupation--was comparatively easy, because once the
avai forces of Japan were destroyed, it was easy to
eparate the islands' control communioations and take.
bossession--so easy was it that when a force of 6,000
89
merican Marines landed in Yokohama Bay there were
,O00,O00 men under arms on the plains of Tokyo, and
ot a single violent incident happened.
BEB·251949
"The Japanese troops were ordered by the Emperor
o lay down their arma and to submit without a struggl
he demilitarisation of Japan was then carried out.
in fact, the Japanese outdid the Americans in their
nthusiasm to get rid of armaments and military
institutions/

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2.
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
institutions. Immediately, Japan adopted a poliey
of non-violence on the lines advocated by Mahatma
Gandhi in India. Indeed, it is true to say that
since the occupation three years ago there have been
only six known cases of violence against the American
occupation troops. Very quickly the naval installa-
tions at places like Kure were closed down, and soon
the Japanese war potential was destroyed.
"The third objective, the political objective,
was not so easy. General MacArthur knew that it would
not be easy; he was under no illusion before he went
to Japan about the difficulty of his task, and under
the circumstances he has done a really remarkable job
in the way he has carried out the occupation. Before
he landed General MacArthur was given certain White
House directives. One of the first on his list was
5043
that trade unions should be established. Again, the
Japanese jumped to it to carry out the wishes of the
.894.
Americans. So much was it the case that within 12
months of General MacArthur's issuing the edict there
were 23,370 unions in Japan. A family could be a union
on application. There are large unions in Japan such
as those of the transport industry, but the majority
of the unions are very small.
"The Americans were rather handicapped in that
they had nobody to explain trade union prinoiples to
the Japanese, so General MacArthur sent to America
asking for volunteers from the unions in America to
come out to Japan and help with trade union education.
From that appeal they got one man, a gentleman called
James S. Killan. It is rather signifioant to notice
that James S. Killan is no longer there. In eaoh of
the three years since the ocoupation there has been
the threat of a general strike in Japan. In each of
those three years the strike has been tabooed by
General MacArthur.
". . . James S. Killan set up inside the economio
and scientific section a small department, whioh is
presided over by General Marquat. When we were there
the number of personnel was very small in relation to
the size of the job. The trades unions themselves
were, in the first instance, set up on A.F. of L. and
C.I.ó. patterns, as in America. During that time
various discussions took place between the Japanese
trade unions leaders, the Government and S.C.À.P.
regarding labour conditions, wages, the fixing of
prices, inflation and so on. But most of the good
intentions that so characterised the first two years
of the occupation have now been lost sight of, because
within the last few months collective bargaining in
Japan has been banned. Evidently the reform period
is over.
"We must take serious note of these things,
because it is not a bit of use our going to workers
in Lancashire and Yorkshire and inviting them to
staff our mills unless at the same time we assume a
responsible/

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
responsible attitude to what is happening in Japan,
and face the likelihood of competition and the dirri
culty the textile trades will be in when competition
really begins. I shall show in a moment how it has
begun.
"There can be two phases. First, the banning
of collective bargaining automatically puts back the
power into the hands of the people who had it before--
the Zaibatsu. Since the beginning of the ocoupation
they have never been far away. I will give one illus-
tration to show what I mean. During our visit we went
to Kyushu in the south, where we visited a coalfidd.
There were 4,760 workers engaged in that partioular
colliery. We scrambled over coal and went down shafts
for the whole day, and at the end of the day the
American officer asked us whether we would like some-
thing to eat. He asked us whether we would like to
go to the welfare club connected with the mine. We
were happy to accept the offer because we thought that
we should meet some of the workers during their off-
time.
"We went to a lovely house on top of a hill.
After we had taken off our shoes, we saw an unusual
man on the verandah. He was a very aristocratio-
looking person, and someone whispered to us, 'That is
Baron Mitsui.' As I was not keen to shake the hand
of anyone connected with the Mitsui clan, I dodged the
first introduction. But I noticed that it was not
possible to sit down until Baron Mitsui had himaelf
sat down. I was a bit puzzled where he came in. So
I tackled a Japanese on my left and asked why Baron
Mitsui was there. I was told that he was the head of
the whole of the coal and fuel industry of Japan before
the war, and that he had been purged. I asked why he
was there if he had been purged.'Oh,' said the Jap,
'he is now the welfare officer.' He was living in his
own house, and to all intents and purposes was carrying
on the supervision of his own business behind the
scenes. The Zaibatsu are nearly back where they were.
"The position now is that potential competition
is worse than before the war. Then the Japanese
economy was at least spread over the whole range of
manufactured products, whereas today it is confined
al most entirely to textiles. The Communists in Japan
number approximately 80,000. What can we expeot to
happen when a Trade union movement which started off
with so much hope and promise suddenly finds itself
cut off by the embargo on collective bargaining?
"It means that as soon as the Zaibatsu phase is
finished other difficulties appear from the extreme
Left. I really do not wish to discuss the political
side at all, but the danger to our trade which can arise
as a result of the present set-up in Japan. Textiles
are the most important exports for Japan, everyone
agrees, and we are trying to fall in with the American
plans/

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
plans as far as possible. We agree that Japan should
be able to live, but how on earth we can forge a soldd
plan for Japan, with her inoreasing population at the
rate of 1,800,000 a year, I really do not know. It
takes all our time to plan for our almost statio pop-
ulation, let alone devise a plan for & situation of
that kind.
"The Japanese are a very disciplined race. It
may be said that they would still have been a dis-
ciplined race if the Emperor had been removed, but I
have thought all along that the retention of the
Emperor was a very big mistake. . .
"The Japanese are a very hard-working people,
and they are a virile people. Despite the tremendous
increase in population they are not losing their
virility. During these last few days I have been
given to understand that there is an increase in mach-
Inery development in Japan. The machinery potential
XR894.655
there for textile machines is immense. There is one
firm in Japan whose yearly production is equal to the
maximum number of spindles installed by America in
their peak year of 1937--nemely, 732,000. Can we be
told what is happening in this connection?
"Last year S.C.A.P. had a plan to set limits to
textile production as follows: cotton, four million
spindles; woollens, 753 cards. There was also a limit
to the tonnage in the staple rayon and. continuous
filament industry. Since then they have shifted their
ground, and I understand that during the past few
months a new five-year plan has been evolved. That
plan was announced on l7th May. Some of us wanted to
know exactly what it was, and eventually an inquiry
went back to General Marquat asking him about the new
levels for rayon and cotton exports and woollen goods,
which were very high. General Marquat replied that
no proposals had been made by the Japanese Government
for larger exports of rayon than the S.C.A.P. programme,
or their prewar levels. He said that many of the
erroneous reports had gained credence through repeti-
tion, and were without basis in fact. Our information
was based on figures taken from an official hand-out
to the Press in Tokyo, on 17th May.
"We understand, however, that the statement by
General Marquat did not quite square with the faots
as the five-year plan is now established. The five-
year programme in respect of rayon, cotton and wool
is very much in excess of the S.C.A.P. programme for
last year. I would like to know whether this five-
year programme is authentic or not? What are the
export targets for the rayon industry? . . .
"Before sitting down, I should like to mention
one other matter, and that is that some time ago an
announcement was made to the trade that the most-
favoured-nation treatment was being extended to Italy.
That rather shooked a lot of people, partioularly the
people concerned with the rayon industry. The effeots
of it/

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
of it have been seen since, not only in South Afriea
but in New Zealand and in Austral ia. At this jumeture
under no circumstances should the most-favoured-nation
treatment be acoorded to Japan before the trade and
the responsible people have had an opportunity to
have a say in the matter and present their case. That
is all I wish to say on that subject at the moment.
"With regard to the question of possible competi-
tion from other countries in the East in textiles, may
I mention China. Some time ago we were apt to overlook
the productive potential of China. While the new plan
in Japan envisages 5.9 million spindles working three
shifts, with a production of 170 pounds of cotton yarn
per annum per spindle, it is interesting to note that
present spindleage in China is in the region of four
million. This year they are hoping to inorease by a
substantial amount exports of cotton goods to the
United States, which last year were in the region of
30 million dollars. I would say to those responsible
that that particular aspect needs watohing as well.
"Mr. William Teeling: We realise when we are
thinking of trade in the Far East that Hong Kong
cannot really·carry on without China, at least to no
very great extent. Equally, China neads Japan.
Japanese industries cannot carry on without China. As
a market those two great countries and the small island
of Hong Kong should be considered together in any plans
and arrangements made by the British Government for
trade development out there. In the years to come we
can get from the Far East all sorts of things like oils
and groundnuts, as we are trying to get from Afrioa,
if only we can get some form of peace in China and for
Japan.
"Therefore, I should like to ask the hon. Gentle-
man who replies to tell us exactly what is happening
with regard to our policy, from the point of view both
of the Board of Trade and the Foreign Office. I know
that the hon. Gentleman who is to reply cannot answer
for the Foreign Office as such, but I would like a
little assurance that the Foreign Office and the Board
of Trade see eye to eye on all these problems. I
have my doubts about it because I feel that the Foreign
Office looks upon the question of a peaoe treaty with
Japan rather on the lines that the healthier and
stronger Japan is--I am not talking in the military
sense--the better is it likely to be in the long run
for the whole Far Eastern position. They are a little
apt to be impatient of the feelings of nervousness in
Australia and in Lancashire and Yorkshire.
"I have met even some English people in Japan and
in the Far East who refuse to allow that Lanoashire
and Yorkshire have a proper case to put. That is a
dangerous position from our point of view. It is
absolutely vital that we should have a friendly agree-
ment as well as a friendly trade agreement with Japan,
but that we should; if possible not give away too
muoh/

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCIASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
much even if we are requested to do so by another
great nation. The argument of the United Statom
that they have been pouring a lot of money into
countries in Eastern Europe and elsewhere. Peace
treaties have come, and the U.S. have left these
countries, where Communism has since developed fast
and furious. All their money, in a sense, has gone
down the drain. If today they were to walk out of
Japan after having poured much money into it, presum-
ably there is a risk that the Communists would take
over and that in some way Russia would gain control.
That argument is strongly used by a large peroentage
of people in the United States, and indeed by an
element in Japan at the present time.
"Another argument which is also used by the
United States--this is more by busimss elements--is
that they have poured money in and that until they
can get some of that money back they have no intention
of getting out. Others say, 'We are now pouring in
this money and we must go on doing so, but if we do
we see no reason why Japan should not have most-
favoured-nation treatment in other parts of the world,
which we are helping with the Marshall Plan.' From
the United States point of view that is quite reason-
able, but frankly I do not think that it is the idea
of either General MacArthur or President Truman, and
I am inclined to look hopefully at what has happened
in the last few days in the United States from the
point of view of the future peace treaty with Japan.
I believe that this desire to look at the matter from
an entirely financial point of view will possibly
diminish, and that we may, in the not far distant future,
find the United States more willing to agree with our
ideas as regards peace.
"Exactly what are our ideas in that respect? Is
it to be the Foreign Office idea of giving perhaps a
little too much to Japan, or the Board of Trade idea--I
hope it is the Board of Trade idea--of making sure that
some agreement is made whereby in some way we in Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire shall be protected as far as
possible, or that at any rate something shall be done
in the Far East which will help our own trade with
Japan. Since 1946, Great Britain's position in Japan
has considerably improved. It was pretty bad, in all
conscience, in 1946, and was none too good in 1947
when some of this House were there. But it is gradually
improving, slowly but surely. Whether the American
position is not improving by that muoh more, so that
we still remain relatively as far behind as previously
I do not know, and I should like some enlightenment.
". . . I do not think that total peace is likely
in the immediate future, but some kind of token peage
could be brought about whereby the Japanese could again
carry on, with reparations cleared up, and with def-
inite arrangements made for the future regarding the
repayment over a period of all the debts and loans of
the past. I believe that Australia would like that.
We might/

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Pago
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
We might even be able to get China to agree to it, and
it is also possible, in the long run, even Russia.
these things are quite possible.
"Mr. John Paton: . . . I refer to the over-
inflatlon of the Japanese textile industry whioh is
taking place now. So far as one can see, that industry
1s scheduled for almost indefinite expansion. Last
week I drew particular attention to this matter.
Tonight I wish to re-emphasise it in relation to what
has been said already. The present tendencies in Japan
under the economic controls of the Amerioan control
organisation show a desire to develop a textile industry
that would be immensely greater than it was before the
war, with all the menace that that would hold to the
many countries in the world that suffered from Japanese
competition. That would be the gravest possible dis-
service to Japan itself, because it would result in a
Japanese economic system which was completely unbalanced
with, I think, about three-quarters of the entire eoon-
omy of the country resting on the one industry of
textiles and, therefore, liable at any time to the
severest shocks from the movement of world trade.
"I have previously made reference to an idea which
I believe to be wholly unfounded. It appears to be
thought that this emphasis in Japan upon the develop-
ment of the textile industry is necessarily bound up
with American self-interest in expanding fields for
the disposal of their own stocks of raw cotton. I
think that is quite a wrong idea. I am sure, from my
own observations in Japan, from my discussions with
economic experts on the American staff and with similar
experts who were themselves employed in the Japanese
textile industry, and that idea is founded on a mis-
conception.
"I think the explanation is far simpler. The
American economic organisation in Japan is developing
the textile industry, out of all relation to the rest
of the Japanese economic system, more or less from
pure necessity. They are striving in every con-
ceivable way to reduce the extraordinary burden now
being borne by the United States alone in sustaining
the Japanese population in these difficult times, and
they have naturally come, as we would come in that
situation, to the easy development of textiles in an
industry which has largely escaped the destruction of
the war which other industries suffered, and for the
products of which there is a ready market over great
areas of the world. It is really from that purely
expediency point of view that this over-development
of the textile industry in Japan is going on; but that
does not in any way diminish the dangers that such a
policy holds for the Japanese economy itself, for our
own economy and for the economies of every other
textile country throughout the world.
"Here we have, undoubtedly, something of very
great importance inaeed. I think that, in our atti-
tude to what has been happening in the Far East, we
have

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page 8.
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
have been suffering very largely from the fact that
our policies have been of a negative kind. We have
never attempted, so far as any evidence that is avail-
able shows, to pursue a positive policy. I think we
have been obsessed by the very apparent weaknesses of
our position in the Far East. Anybody who has been in
Japan and who has seen the inevitably overwhelming
effect of the United States effort, against the tiny
effect of any efforts that we can make, is very well
aware of the position, but I think we have accepted
the difficulties too readily. . . .
"Surely the answer is that no one on these
Benches would aver attempt to suggest that we ought
to try by special devices to cushion Lancashire
against the effective competition of other textile
countries in the world? I am sure that no textile
representative on this side of the House would ever
dream of making such a suggestion; but what Lanoashire
is wanting is some assurance that she will not be
subjected, in the markets into which she is entering
in the world, to the completely unfair competition
which she could not by any device hope to meet, and
to which she was subjected by Japanese textile manu-
facturers before the war.
"That was a competition not only based on the
incredibly low standards of life of the Japanese
labour force, but one that was bolstered and sustained
by heavy State subsidies, by means of which prices
were enabled to be cut in every part of the Western
world, so that the textile industries of every advanced
country found themselves unable to stand up against
such competition. Lancashire has a right to expect
protection from that kinc of thing. I think that in
the existing circumstances of Japan we now see the
beginnings of an effective kind of protection. One
of the results or the catastrophic destruction in
Japan and of her occupa tion by American troops and our
own has been that, in Japan now, there is, at least
on paper, an extremely effective code of labour
welfare and social relations, with safeguards and
regulations that ought to give to the Japanese workers,
for the first time, the freest opportunity to organise
and develop their collective power for the purpose of
lifting and maintaining a good standard of life.
". . . The second thing, surely is this. Japan,
in the new circumstances in which she is operating,
will no longer find it possible to bolster her export
goods with vast sums of public money which formerly
constituted one of the factors in maintaining the
competitive levels at which she operated throughout
the world. On these two foundations, we ought now
to be able to base the possibility and hope that
Japan will no longer be able to exploit her people
in the thoroughly merciless manner which she employed
before the war, to the detriment of the other trading
nations of the world.
But there/

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Page '9
Desp. No. z322, November 24, 1948, from London
"But there is a bigger factor than that to
which I want to refer, and which for nearly three
years I have already urged upon the Government on a
number of occasions in this House, without ever yet
having elicited any kind of effective answer. Surely,
it ought to be obvious to the Government, as it is
to anyone who studies the situation, that we cannot
hope to build up or revitalise Japanese industry, as
we must in order to allow the Japanese people to live,
if we think of Japan in terms of a Far Eastern vacuum?
The reorganisation of Japan, and the building up of such
a level of industry in Japan as will give her people
the opportunity of reasonable standards of life, cannot
be done in isolation. They can only be done when Japan
is viewed, as she ought to be viewed, as an integral
part of a great Far Eastern economy affecting, for good
or ill, every country in that vast area of the Pacific,
and, Indeed, every other industrial nation in the world.
"On every opportunity I have had in this House
during the last three years, I have pleaded that, in
the whole of this matter of the policies to be pursued
towards Japan in the future we should, first, have a
clearly perceived objective, and, secondly, a policy
of sound planning which would integrate the new Japanese
economy, at the level of industry considered sound and
necessary, into the economies of all the coun tries around
her, and which are so plainly affected by all her indus-
trial and economic activities. It is only by that
combination of central, long-sighted planning for the
emergence of a Japan that will be economically viable,
and, at the same time, no menace to her neighbours
throughout the world, combined with the internal develop-
ments that I have mentioned, that we can find safeguards
against unfair competition emerging once again from
that territory.
"There is one further point I wish to put to the
Minister. It seems to me that, on this question of
xR
the level of industry in Japan, the discussions that
894.60
have so far taken place have been discussions on a
level that is altogether too low. The agreement that
seems to have been r eached by the Far Eastern Commission
is that the future level to be aimed at in Japan is
one roughly corresponding to that which obtained in the
years 1930-34. Those years in Japanese economic history
were years of depression, just as they were in every
other country in the world. Therefore, they are not a
fair test, so far as the welfare of the Japanese people
is concerned. Yet those very years are taken as the
standard for purposes of the level of inaustry. Let
us think of one or two things which we ought always to
keep in mind.
"The population of Japan at that time was 68
million. She had numerous colonies which she was ruth-
lessly exploiting for purposes of her own interests
and her home population. Yet, in that year, as'we all
know, she had a deficit economy compelling her to
import large quantities of food which could only be
purchased/

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
STFTED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
purchased by a continuous and expanding export of
competitive goods. Today, the Japanese population
is 78 million, in islands on which the agrarian ocon-
omy is scarcely capable of any marked extension, in
islands whose great fishing grounds, on which the
people's food so much depends, have been greatly cir-
cumscribed as a result of defeat. Russia has olosed
one great prolific fishing area to her for ever.
There, in those islands, with a population l0 million
greater than it was in the period taken as the standard,
and with colonies, and all the opportunities for their
exploitation gone, we have now to make provision for
that enhanced population which is increasing every
year by nearly two million.
"It can only be done, if it is going to be a
XR
viable economy, knowing as we do that the possibilities
894.5018
of expansion of food production in Japan are striotly
limited, along the lines I have suggested. It oan
only mean that any viable standard of industry in
Japan must take account of the fact that she will now
have to import greater quantities of foodatuffs and
raw materials than she ever found it necessary to
import in 1934. Therefore, she will find it necessary
to export vastly greater quantities of competitive
goods in order to keep her people and her industries
alive. We must keep these factors in mind, because
they have an enormous bearing on the central idea
which I have been trying to insist on in this House,
the need for clarity of objective and for skilled
detailed planning as to the kind of industry permitted.
That industry must be varied over a large range instead
of being concentrated on one particular commodity.
It is with that sort of treatment, thinking of Japan
as the industrial centre of a great area, partly
industrialised and with great potential industrial
possibilities, a Japan integrated into the system of
that area, that I want to see our Ministers concerning
themselves.
"Mr. Bottomley (Secretaryfor Overseas Trade):
"A good deal of discussion has centred on Japan.
Japan is a defeated enemy that ended the war in a state
of economic collapse. Japanese production is still 50
per cent below the low period of 1934 production to
which the hon. Member for Norwich (Mr. J. Paton)
referred. May I say, in connection with the observa-
tions made by an hon. Member about most-favoured-nation
treatment, that we certainly have not at the moment
been committed to any such suggestion, and, if we were
to be committed in the future, the House can be assured
that there will be full disoussion and consideration
before there can be any decision upon that matter.
". . . Most-favoured-nation treatment is, of
course, rather linked with the peace treaty, and
there are no two views about the peace treaty. But
peace treaty or no peace treaty, it is the determina-
tion of His Majesty's Government to look after United
Kingdom interests, and that we shall do all the time.
I suppose/

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Pago 11.
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from Lòndon
I suppose that if Japan is to be a nation free from
the difficulties mentioned this evening, she will
have to build up her industrial capacity, and cer-
tainly restore her foreign trade. The Japanese are
something like ourselves: they have to export to
live; they cannot be, any more than we can, for ever
dependent upon international charity or aid from the
United States. The industrial development of
Japan today is far from satisfactory. Her coal pro-
duotion in 1948 is not expected to be more than 36
million tons, which is about three-fifths of the pre-
war level of production; iron and steel produotion
is now running at an annual rate of about one million
tons, which is roughly one-third of the pre-war pro-
duction; cotton textile production, whioh before the
war amounted to 45 million yards, is today only 720
million yards.
"Mr. Drayson: Is it 45 million yards? Surely
it is 4--5,000 million yards. To what period is the
hon. Gentleman referring?
"Mr. Bottomley: The hon. Member is quite right;
it is 4--5,000 million yards. If we take that figure,
it means that today the Japanese are operating two
million spindles compared with eight million before
the war.In connection with textile production, it
1s of interest to note that whereas in 1930-34 exports
averaged 1,200 million dollars per annum, in 1948 they
will not reach 280 million dollars; the Únited States
estimate that by 1953 they should reach a figure of
just under 7o0 million dollars. I understand that
figure is not likely to be reached, but even if it
were it would be only seven-twelfths of the very low
pre-war figure for the years 1930-34.
". . . To go back to the point I was making about
the figure of seven-twelfths of the low pre-war pro-
duction, and to pick up to some extent the point made
by the hon. Member for Norwich, Japanese exports in
1947 were f44 million, which is less than one-third of
her imports, and Japan really must pay for her imports
if she is to do the trade which we want developed in
the best interests of this country, of Japan and of
the world generally. As I say, it is the intention of
S.C.A.P. to try to make Japanese economy viable by
1953; but that viability means the pre-war low level
to which the hon. Member for Norwich referred, and
upon which there may be conflicting views. Yet in
spite of tremendous efforts in the last three years,
it has not been possible to get anywhere near the
standard expected, and therefore, with the best will
in the world, it will probably be physically impossible
to reach a higher standard than the one I have mentioned.
"The hon. Member for Norwich asked about an agree-
ment which had been reached. It is true that in August
of this year, after rather long negotiations, there was
a payments-agreement with the sterling group whereby
payments/

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Pago
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
payments could be made in sterling although any
deficit must be met in dollars. I am spenk ing only
from memory, the House was not sitting then, but I
think I can say that in the Board of Trade Journal
and in information from trade associations that was
made known. in order that our own industry could take
advantage of the situation. In connection with the
other agreement to which the hon. Member referred, it
is a fact that for the first time--and I think it is
to be welcomed--the United Kingdom, the Colonies and
the Commonwealth countries of Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa and India have been negotiating to get
a trade agreement for one year whereby we can have
an opportunity to get a balanced trade. In this way,
as long as we can send goods to Japan and can get
goods in return, trade can be expanded to the fullest.
"I am not in a position tonight to announce the
terms of that agreement, but I can, as a result of the
invitation of the hon. Member for Brighton, say that
we shall have in that agreement an exohange of goods.
Raw wool, raw cotton, iron ore, some cereals, petroleum,
rubber and other things will be going from the sterling
area into Japan, and coming out from Japan will be
cotton textiles, raw silk, industrial machinery, rolling
stock, caustic soda and other things. My hon. Friend
the Member for Norwich has obviously not been watohing
his Questions as carefully as usual, because the hon.
Member for Brighton has been repeatedly asking when
this agreement will be made public. Until the agree-
ment has been reached it is impossible to make it
public, but I think I can say that next week an ann-
ouncement will be made--I hope that I shall not have
to put off the hon. Member again.
". . . So far I have been talking about direct
trade with Japan but I must also'mention indirect
trade. In Japan we have merchant houses that had a
large stake in the development of Japanese exports.
It took us a very long time to convince S.C.A.P. of
the value of the services rendered by these British
houses, but now, I am very glad to say, there is a
more accommodating attitude. We now have between 25
and 30 firms re-established in Japan which are covering
services, such as shipping, commercial banking, and
other things of that nature. In addition, we have
been able to get United Kingdom businessmen into the
country. One hundred and thirty of these people have
been in the country according to my last figures. I
think we can say that these United Kingdom businessmen
will do much to help the Japanese in the export trade,
and at the same time will give some measures of assist-
ance in regard to our own int erests in Japan.
"We have also been able to appoint a commercial
Minister in the country, and there has now been
established an advisory committee made up of repre-
sentatives of British business interests. Together
with the Commercial Minister, they will be able
adequately to protect British interests. My hon. Friend
the Member/

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFTED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
the Member for Ashton-under-Lyne talked a lot about
the danger of Japanese competition. As has already
been said on earlier occasions, we have to bear in
mind that we have to make Japan's economy viable
while watching to see that the Japanese no longer
engage in pre-war methods of unfair competition. We
have to enable Japan's economy to develop in order
to give the Japanese a reasonable standard of living
and enable them to take their place in the comity of
nations, while at the same time preventing them from
being the aggressive Power they were before and
violently undercutting prices. Japanese trade is
developing reasonably satisfactorily, and we hope that.
the trade arrangement which is to be announoed in due
course will be of mutual advantage to Japan and our-
selves."
November 8, 1948.
"Mr. Prescott asked the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs what instructions have been issued
to our representative on the Far Eastern Commission
in respect of the proposed formation of a standing
Japanese army.
"Mr. Mayhew: I am not aware of the existence
of any proposal to form a standing Japanese army.
x
There has been no question of sending instructions
to our representative on the Far Eastern Commission
894.20
on this issue and none has been sent. The Far Eastern
Commission have decided that all measures necessary
should be undertaken to prevent any revival of the
Japanese army, navy, gendarmerie, secret police and
their administrative organs, and my information is
that Japan is now completely demilitarised."
November 10, 1948.
"Mr. Pritt asked the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs what developments have recently been
carried out at the Japanese naval base of Yokosuka;
whether these developments have had the consent of His
Majesty's Government and of the Far Eastern Commission;
and how they are consistent with the policy of dis-
armament and demilitarisation of Japan.
"Mr. Mayhew (Under-Secretary of State for Foreign
Affairs): The former Japanese naval base at Yokosuka
has been used since the beginning of the oocup tion by
the naval forces operating in support of the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan. I am in-
formed that there is no truth in reports that Yokosuka
has been converted into a modern naval base, and that
such limited modifications as have been made there have
been solely for the purpose of maintaining the effi-
ciency of the United States naval vessels and for
servicing visiting ships. His Majesty's Government in
the United Kingdom are fully satisfied that there has
been no breach of the existing policies regarding the
disarmament and demilitarisation of Japan and no
special/

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFTED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
special instructions have been issued to our repre-
sentative on the Far Eastern Commission."
November 11, 1948.
"Mr. Prescott asked the President of the Board
of Trade what proposals exist to grant most-favoured-
nation facilities to Japan; to what extent disoussions
have taken place with U.S. and Dominion representatives
concerning this matter; with what Dominions; when and
where such discussions took place; and what is the
attitude of His Majesty's Government to such proposals.
"Mr. H. Wilson (President, Board of Trade): "A
discussion of the points which would be involved in
according most-favoured-nation treatment to Japanese
goods took place between officials of the United States
and the Commonweal th Governments in London last week.
The United States Government wished to ascertain what
the attitude of Commonwealth Governments to suoh a
proposal might be and it was agreed, as a matter of
convenience, to hold preliminary discussions on the
question while some of the officials attending the
recent Commonwealth meeting were still in London. In
addition to the United Kingdom, representatives of
Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, India,
Pakistan, Ceylon and Southern Rhodesia were present.
The discussions were exploratory and non-committal.
His Ma jesty's Government in the United Kingdom have
not yet considered the report of these conversations
and have not formulated any attitude towards the
granting of most-favoured-nation treatment to Japan."
November 15, 1948.
"Mr. George Jeger asked the Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs what progress is being made in
the negotiations with the Japanese Gov ernment for com-
pensation to British subjects who suffered imprison-
ment and the loss of their household and personal
property under Japanese occupa tion.
'Mr. McNeil (Minister of State): This is not a
subject for negotiation with the Japanese Government,
and consequently no such negotiations are in progress
or in prospect. It will be for the Peace Conference
to decide whether an obligation is to be imposed onthe
Japanese Government to meet individual claims in respeot
of loss or damage to property or for personal injury."
November 16, 1948.
"Mr. Erroll asked the President of the Board of
Trade what consultations took place with the Lanoashire
cotton industry before the recent trade agreement with
Japan was concluded.
"Mr. Bottomley: I understand that the Chairman
of the Cotton Board has been aware of the negotiations
leading up to the recent trade arrangement between a
number of Commonweal th countries and the Supreme
Commander/

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASS IFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
Commander for the Allied Powers in Japan. The
National Production Advisory Counoil on Industry
were also informed that negotiations were in progress
but no formal consultation with individual industries
has taken place."
November 24, 1948,
"Mr. Piratin asked the President of the Board of
Trade whether he will give an assurance that, in signing
the recent trade agreement with Japan, His Majesty's
Government gave consideration to its effect on our
textile trade; and whether he will make a statement.
"Mr. Bottomley: The primary object of the Trade
Arrangement recently negotiated between a number of
Commonwealth countries and the Supreme Commander for
the Allied Powers on behalf of Japan was to enable the
participating countries to obtain essential supplies
against payment in sterling and without recourse to
dollars, but the possibility of its having an effect
on our own industries was naturally very much in mind.
Full information regarding this arrangement, inoluding
figures for the United Kingdom and Colonies, has
already been released and I do not think it necessary
for me to make a further statement.
"Mr. Piratin: Can the Minister say whether he had
consultations with the textile industrialists in Lan-
cashire and Yorkshire on this matter, and is it not
the case that there has been much indignation as a
result of this agreement in the Northern parts of the
country?
"Mr. Bottomley: I am not aware of the indigna-
tion to which the hon. Member refers. In matters of
this kind we always consult with interested parties,
but the responsibility finally rests upon His Majesty's
Government.
"Mr. Piratin: May I have an answer to my ques-
tion?  The question was specifically, did the Depart-
ment actually consult with the textile industry? May
I have an answer?
"Hon. Members: No.
"Mr. Erroll: Does the Minister now deny the
statement he made last week to the effect that there
was consultation with the textile industry?
"Mr. Bottomley: I am neither denying nor sup-
porting this partioular thing put in the way in whioh
both hon. Members have questioned me. The answer is
that conaultations are always taking place with indus-
try on these matters, but if they ask if partioular
consultations took place on this point, the answer is
'No.'
"Mr. Platts-Mills: As my hon. Friend says that
His Majesty's Government must take full responsibility
for this/

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 16
UNCTASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
for this agreement, is he now saying that New
Zealanders actually wanted a bargain whereby they
were forced to take this Japanese trash made by
sweated labour in preference to British textiles?
Mr. Bottomley: The responsibility of the United
Kingdom applies to our own part of trade arrangements.
Other commonwealth countries were concerned, and New
Zealand was a party to the arrangement."
China. November 4, 1948.
"Mr. William Teeling (Conservative, Brighton):
Perhaps we might be told a little more about the
present position in Hong Kong generally and about 1ts
position vis-a-vis China. I remember that an hon.
Member in the previous Session who was in China at the
same time that I was in Japan made what I considered
a rather strong speech on the subject of amuggling
from Hong Kong. We ought to be intensely proud of
.93244
Hong Kong, which has done extremely well sinoe the war
and has kept our flag flying in the East. All the talk
646g
about smuggling with China is deeply resented out there.
We know that there is a black market attempting to
evade Chinese customs and regulations--or there 1s
supposed to be--but we should realise also that Hong
Kong is doing everything it possibly can to assist the
Chinese Government to carry out their own regulations.
Hong Kong has introduced controls to regulate the
imports of Chinese produce which are passed through
Hong Kong. She has stopped the import of Chinese cur-
rency and has done other things to support the Chinese
authorities. She has agreed to an inspection service
XR
operating in Hong Kong territory and territorial waters
so as to prevent smuggling.
"I believe that I am right in seying that nowhere
else in the world can it be shown that the Government
of a territory have gone so far to assist the Govern-
ment of another and neighbouring territory in the
enforcement of their own regulations. It is time that
we gave a bit of credit for what is being done in that
matter instead of making criticisms and suggestions
about smuggling and the black market, which show a
grave lack of fairness. The economic and political
instability in China has undoubtedly attracted to Hong
Kong a large number of Chinese people, something like
one million people. Some part of the entrepot trade
which was formerly carried on in Shanghai has been
diverted to Hong Kong. But it is wrong to think that
instability in China is in Hong Kong's interest. That
is not the case. The long-term prosperity of Hong
Kong will always march together with that of China as
a whole.
"Mr. Bottomley: In the case of China we are
doing everything possible to revive and develop the
healthy links which once existed, but our opportunities
are very limited. The Government in 1946 sent an
official

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
prospects of further trade are limited until normal
conditions are restored. The country at the moment is
in the throes of civil war. The Chinese have been for
a long time fighting inflation, and therefore I am
afraid trade on normal lines has been more or less
impossible. In spite of these difficulties, when we
take the export figures for China for the year l946 we
find that our exports were £7.8 million; in 1947, £12.8
million and for the eight months of this year £8.4
million which, if the same rate of development continues,
will mean an annual rate of fl2.6 million. This com-
pares with exports of £4.4 million in 1938.
"If we take imports we find that in l946 imports
from China were £2.7 million; in 1947, £7.1 mi1lton,
and for the first eight months of thie year £5.6 million,
which, 1f continued, will make an annual rate of £8.5
million as compared with imports of £7.l million in
1938. The Chinese Government, like many others, in-
cluding our own, have their balance of payments diffi-
culties and for that reason they have had to limit
many imports--goods that were normally sent to China,
and which we would still like to send. Consequently
we have not such a wide market as we would wish.
Indeed, China has an unfavourable balance with the
United Kingdom, but she has a favourable balance with
641.
the sterling area as a whole. We are receiving tea,
tung oil, oil seeds, bristles, etc., and in return,
although unable to send some of the goods we should
like to send, we have found a substantial market for
wool tops, iron and steel manufactures, electrical
machinery and reasonable supplies of what are known as
'less essential goods.' The prospects of economic
stability in China do not look as bright as they did
a little time ago, and until we can see more clearly
how things are going to develop the outlook for future
expansion of trade with China is not as good as we
would wish.
"The hon. Member for Brighton, in connection with
China's trade position, mentioned Hong Kong. As he
rightly said, the interests of Hong Kong are closely
connected with those of China for trade. The physical
trade done between the United Kingdom and Hong Kong
shows a deficit on the part of Hong Kong. Imports for
January to August, 1948, were f81 million approximately,
while Hong Kong only exported £60 million.  To examine
the figures only in that way would not be correct,
because Hong Kong renders very valuable services, such
as shipping, banking, and insurance, and by that means
gets an overall balance. I agree with the observation
made by the hon. Member and repeat this for the reoord,
as he wished me to do."
November 17, 1948.
"Mr. Vernon Bartlett asked the Secretary of State
for Foreign Affairs the estimated value of British
investments/

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
investments in Shanghai; and whether he has consulted
or will consult the U.S. Government with a view to
taking an immediate decision to send an Anglo-Amoriean
force to that city should the situation in China con-
tinue to deteriorate.
"Mr. Mayhew: The value in 194l of British
investments In Shanghai has been estimated at £lo7
million; and their present replacement value is
probably still not less than that figure. Inter-
governmental consultations of the kind suggested have
not taken place, nor are they contemplated by His
Ma jesty's Government. ..
"Sir Ronald Ross: In view of the advantage that
might accrue to the Chinese as well as to British
interests in Shanghai, is the only policy the Govern-
ment are contemplating at present the evacuation of
British personnel rather than protecting Shanghai?
"Mr. Mayhew: No, Sir. I should make clear that
when I said plans were being made, I meant for the
protection and not the evacuation of British and United
States nationals in China."
Hong Kong. November 24, 1948.
"Mr. Fitzroy Maclean asked the Secretary of State
for the Colonies what steps have been taken to prevent
the use of Hong Kong by Chinese Communists as a safe
base for their activities against the Chinese Govern-
ment.
"Mr. Creech Jones (Secretary of State for the
Colonies): The activities of the Chinese Communists
in Hong Kong are closely watched and deportation pro-
ceedings are in train in several cases where it has
been found that Communists were attempting to use
Hong Kong as a base for activities against the Chinese
Government.. . .
Mr. John Paton: Will my right hon. Friend see
that the greatest care is exercised not to reatriot
the right of asylum for Chinese liberals and demoorats
as well as Communiats so long as they conform to the
law of the Colony?"
Korea. November 1, 1948.
"Mr. Stanley Prescott asked the Secretary of
tR740.00119
State for Foreign Affairs if he will make a statement
on the position in Korea and the attitude of His
Majesty's Government.
"Mr. F. Maclean asked the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs whether he will make a statement re-
garding the present situation in Korea.
"Mr. Mayhew: In North Korea the Russian occupa-
tion forces are said to intend withdrawing from their
zone/

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCEASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
zone by lst January next. It appears that North
Korea has established diplomatio relations with the
Soviet Union, and with certain fellow-satellite gov-
ernments.
"In South Korea there has recently been a Com-
munist-inspired rising, accompanied by great barbarity.
Order has now been restored, though some guerrilla
groups have yet to be suppressed. The Amerioan author-
ities have not been involved in the suppression of
this rising; and have proceeded with the transfer of
power which began with the termination of the Amerioan
occupation in August.
"As I stated on 2Oth September, His Majesty's
Government do not think their attitude towards the
question of recognition can be decided until the Report
of the United Nations Temporary Commission has been
considered by the General Assembly. This is expeoted
to take place shortly."
Philippines. November 4, 1948.
"Mr. Teeling:
. . One area which is never
discussed or talked about is the Philippine Islands,
which have a population of more than 13 million. They
were under the United States until about 10 years ago.
They got their independence more or less on commonwealth
lines and today they are completely independent. The
United States have, of course, got them inside the dollar
area, and trade with them very considerably. The
Philippines have a tremendous possibility. They have
gold mines and a number of things vitally necessary for
the whole of the world. The United States are not
willing to put too much money into them and are not
responsible for all that is going on there.
"I am not at all happy about what Great Britain
is doing. I feel that she is not paying enough atten-
tion to those islands and to the possibilities that
can be realised there. France is doing far more. Do
we realise that the quickest way by far to the Phil-
1ppine Islands is to go by Air France? Yet to do so,
one has to start from England. One can get there in
half the time taken by any British line. The French
are very proud of this arrangement and are now talking
of the possibility of some arrangement being come to
with Indo-China whereby they will practically hand over
Indo-China to the Indo-Chinese, getting one small town
on the coast not very far from Hong Kong. They intend
to turn that town into a second Hong Kong, as a second
great trading centre. They are hoping to trade with
the Philippines from there and with Siam. Are we
watching that development to see what is happening?.
"Mr. Bottomley: I should like to say a few words
about the Philippines. That country is a desirable
.market, and we would like to do much more trade with
it. The country is a hard currency market, but does
not afford us the best opportunity for trade with it.
For instance, the Philippines have a preferential
tariff/

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
tariff whereby goods from the United States enter
duty free for the next eight years, and for 20 years
thereafter enter at a diminishing rate of preference
But so that we can facilitate trade we have sent 
Minister to the Philippines We have told him how
important we consider that country, and he is now
preparing a report on the export trade. When that
report is ready we shall see that United Kingdom manu-
641.9631
facturers have a chance of trying to expand trade with
that country. Although our imports have deoreased
compared with pre-war, our exports have gone into the
Philippines at an encouraging rate though not, of
course, as large as we should wish. There will be a
chance of developing trade when opportunities are more
favourable. We hope that the new import licensing
restrictions in that country will not be too obstruot-
ive. They are a sovereign Power, but in due course
our Minister will make representations illustrating
how trade can be developed by removing restriotions
and obstructions as far as possible."
Malaya. November 1, 1948.
"Mr. Pickthorn asked the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs to what period he referred when, on
15th September in the House, he said that the workers
in Malaya followed official advice, that there wa no
chance for Communists to influence them in their
ordinary work and that few or no strikes took place.
"Mr. Rees-Williams (Parliamentary Under-Secretary
for the Colonies): I have been asked to reply. My
right hon. Friend was referring to the period immed-
iately prior to the armed attacks. What he said must
be read in its context. As his remarks show, he was
indicating the course of the Communist challenge to
the authority of Government which, in its earlier
stages, was directed to engineering organised strikes
on a large scale. The failure of that attempt was
due in a large measure to the increasing response of
the trade unions to the advice of Malayan Government
officials and experienced British trade unionists."
November 8, 1948.
"Mr. W. Fletcher asked the Secretary of State for
Foreign Affairs whether the final amounts due from
Malayan property found in Japan have now been agreed;
and when they will be paid.
"Mr. Mayhew: The hon. Member is no doubt
6354
referring to Malayan tin and rubber. The final
am ounts due have not yet been agreed. Identification
6176
of the origin and ownership of the property must of
XR846
course precede agreement on payment. Identification
846
of the tin is taking time because of the innumerable
small lots in which it was discovered and handled.
Nearly all the rubber has been identified and negotia-
tions over the price to be paid are now proceeding."
November/

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
November 10, 1948.
"Mr. Pickthorn asked the Secretary of State for
the Colonies how many strikes there were in Malaya,
in the period of six months immediately prior to the
armed attacks; and how many trade unions were under
Communist influence.
Mr. Creech Jones: During the six months from
December to May 1948, there were 140 strikes in the
Federation of Malaya. It is reported that probably
130 of the 335 trade unions come under Communist
influence, while there is some doubt in respect of
of 70 others."
On November 10 there was also a long debate
(taking up practically the whole of Hansard for the
Lords on that day) in the House of Lords on the subjeot
of Malaya. The debate was participated in by Lord
Mancroft, Viscount Swinton, Lord Milverton, Viscount
Marchwood, the Lord Bishop of Truro, Viscount Elibank,
Lord Mountevans, the Earl of Scarborough, and Lord
Harlech, and the questions asked were replied to in
two speeches by the Earl of Listowel, Minister of
State for the Colonies. While the Malayan problem
was obviously being used as a club with which to beat
the present (Socialist) Government of Britain, the
debate as a whole presents a very good picture of
British conservative and governmental thinking on the
problem of Malaya. The debate was muoh too long to
be included in this despatch, and therefore, copies
of the official Report are attached, as of possible
interest to those in the Department associated with
South-East Asian affairs.
November 17, 1948.
"Mr. Erroll asked the Secretary of State for the
Colonies what are the countries of origin of the arms
captured from the Malayan terrorists.
"Mr. Rees-Williams: The majority of the arms
captured from the bandits in Malaya are of British,
though some are of Japanese, origin. In addition, a
few Dutch and American weapons, the former from the
campaigns of 1941-42, the latter from Force 136, have
also been recovered and one old Bren gun made in
Czechoslovakia bearing the emblem of Nationalist China
from which it probably came.
"Mr. Awbery: Is my hon. Friend aware that we
dropped arms to these insurgents when they were
resisters, and is he satisfied that the arms now cap-
tured are the arms dropped to them from the air?
"Mr. Rees-Williams: Yes, Sir, substantially
I am.
"Mr. Gammans asked the Secretary of State for
the Colonies/

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.95)
UNSEASSIPIED
Desp. No. 2322, November 24, 1948, from London
the Colonies what was the tonnage of rubber bor
from Malaya in October by the U.S.S.R. and G
Britain respectively; and what are the total purol
by the U.S.S.R. this year as compared with the oor
ponding period of last year.
"Mr. Rees-Williams: Exports to Russia in
October were 17,332 tons, and to the United Kingdom
9,240 tons. Total exports to Russia in the firat ten
months of 1948 were 87,738 tons, compared with 29,849
tons for the corresponding period of 1947."
Respectfully yours,
For the Ambassador:
EliRSin
Erle R. Dickover
Couns elor of Embassy
Enclosure: att
5 copies Hansard November 10, 1948.
ERDickover/wg

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.99)
10 November 1948
London. Cols. 322-394
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
322
whether this omission will be rectified
SUNDAY ENTERTAINMENTS ACT.
F.W.894.50
at any future occasion of a similar
1932
nature.]
BOROUGH OF SOUTHGATE ORDER;
THE MINISTER OF CIVIL AVIA-
URBAN DISTrICT OF CHIgWELL ORDer;
TION (LORD PAKENHAM): My Lords.
URBAN DISTRICT OF SKIPTON ORDER:
the number of Territorial Army Units is
RURAL DISTRICT OF SEVENOAKS ORDER.
so large that it was not a practical pro-
position to allot seats to commanding
LoRD WALKDEN: My Lords. I beg
officers and their wives. I cannot at
to move that these Orders be approved.
present predict what may be the arrange-
Moved, That the Orders made under
ments at any future review of the
the Act by the Secretary of State for the
Territorial Army.
Home Department, for extending Section
ViscoUNT LONG: While thanking the
one of the Act to the said areas, be
noble Lord for his reply, may I ask
approved.—(Lord Walkden.)
whether he is aware that the Territorial
On Question, Motion agreed to.
Army consider as an insult the non-allot-
ment of seats to them at this review?
MALAYA
Further, is he aware that there were two
2.46 p.m.
stands filled with people other than serv-
LORD MANCROFT rose to call atten-
11-2448
ing Territorial officers, and is this not
another indication of the need for a
tion to the situation in Malaya; and to
Territorial representative in the War
move for Papers. The noble Lord said:
My Lords, the wording of my Motion is
Office?
of necessity formal. I am in point of fact
LORD PAKENHAM: To describe
moving to draw the attention of His
what occurred as an insult to the Terri-
Majesty's Government to the state of
torial Army is, in my opinion, a gross
affairs in Malaya—and if, by that, His
abuse of language. I would add that
Majesty's Government imagine that I am
on this occasion there was a standing
implying that all is not well with the
enclosure for Territorial Army personnel.
policy pursued by them in the conduct of
affairs in Malaya, their imaginations are
VIscouNT LONG : I am aware of that,
not running away with them. Some
but is it not a fact that there were two
courtesies have already been exchanged
stands filled with other than Territorial
across the floor this afternoon. I hope
Army personnel?
the noble Earl will acquit me of any dis-
courtesy or brusqueness if I say at the
LoRD PAKENHAM: I have no doubt
outset that in my opinion the policy of
that the noble Viscount will raise this
the noble Earl, and of His Majesty's Gov-
and other matters with my honourable
ernment, with regard to Malaya has been
friend the Secretary of State for War
vacillating, complacent and unrealistic.
when he comes to a Committee Room
Of course, I am not making any personal
to address members of your Lordships'
attack against the noble Earl. He has
House.
taken the trouble to go out himself to
Malaya to see what was happening; and
LoRD LLEWELLIN: Would it not be
he has, as always, been helpful, courteous.
better if in future some of the Territorial
friendly—and seriously misinformed.
commanding officers and other people
We have recently welcomed back into
actually in the Territorial Army were
allotted seats, rather than that the seats
this country the Commissioner-General in
should all be occupied by Regular soldiers
the Far East, Mr. Malcolm MacDonald—
and we were very glad to take the oppor-
from the War Office, as happened on this
occasion?
tunity of congratulating Mr. MacDonald
on the sterling work he is doing in very
LoRD PAKENHAM: Perhaps the
difficult circumstances. He made a report,
noble Lord would care to pursue the
a very encouraging report—I hope it will
matter with me privately, when we could
not prove over-encouraging. Clearly.
investigate in greater detail the distribu-
there has been an improvement in the
tion of seats. I do not, however, accept
state of affairs in Malaya within the last
as accurate the statement which he has
few weeks—and a very welcome improve-
just made.
ment too. It can be put down, I think,
H.L. 40 D 5
ASIAN AFFAIRS
EB 25 1949

=== Page 498 === (confidence 1.00)
323
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
[Lord Mancroft.]
of His Majesty's Government's conduct
to two reasons. One was the invoking of
in Malaya.
emergency powers this summer—which
in the opinion of many was long overdue.
There is no getting away from the fact
The second is the very determined and
that His Majesty's Government have
skilful performance put up by the Army
asked for trouble in Malaya. It is no
in Malaya, consisting of British and
good blaming the Communists entirely
Gurkha troops, the Malay Regiment and
for what has happened in the last three
police; and also by the courage of the
years. My only surprise is that the Com-
planters and miners themselves. I do not
munists have not been more successful.
think the people of this country quite
As regards the Communists, half a dozen
realise what the planters have been going
Russian-educated men have been enabled
through and how much we owe them.
to gain control of a large undisciplined
They have had a very thin time indeed;
body, and to turn it to terrible advan-
many of them have already been sub-
tage. That should be a lesson to us here
jected to three and a half years' imprison-
at home. I had an opportunity of talk-
ment and worse; many are no longer
ing to several of the men who have been
young men. They had a stiff enough task.
captured in the recent sweeps, and they
in all conscience, to rebuild their homes
did not strike me as being Communists
and rehabilitate their estates; and now.
in the way we might possibly understand
just as they have got their lives and their
the word. Few of them, I suspect, knew
work properly reorganiscd, along comes
as much about dialectical materialism as
this trouble. If the planters had given in,
do your Lordships. The Communists
or if the Communist attack had been
have got hold of the guerrillas, the
more skilful, Malaya would have gone
squatters and young hooligans who have
down in chaos, because if the planters
been running loose for three and a half
had left their posts hundreds of thousands
years, not knowing the meaning of law
of labourers would have been left to
and order. They are simply Oriental
wander over Malaya without leadership,
spivs. Communism is not, therefore,
and without protection. That, I think,
wholly responsible.
is something which we in this country
We ourselves have made further serious
forget. We pay too little tribute to them.
mistakes. First and foremost there is
They are startled and angry when they
our failure to round up all the arms and
realise that the only attention that this
ammunition which we ourselves poured
country pays to them is to level at them
into the country during the war. We
unfounded accusations of exploitation.
could quite easily have got most of them
Those accusations are adequately
back. We demobilised the local Forces
refuted by the Report published recently
much too soon. We have been very lax
in Kualar Lumpur by Mr. Awbery and
in training and recruiting for the police
Mr. Dalley. We also praise the energy
—particularly in providing ammunition
and wireless. We then imposed upon
and enthusiasm with which they are re-
the country a complicated system of trade
building Malaya. turning her into the
unionism for which Malaya was totally
biggest dollar-earning agency of the
unprepared. with the result that trade
British Empire, and then hurl abuse at
unionism soon fell into the wrong hands.
that very private enterprise of which they
By May of this year, over 60 per cent. of
themselves are a splendid example. The
the unions were controlled by Com-
planters in Malaya view with a sharp and
munists, for the Communist Party was not
candid eye the policy which His
banned until July of this year.
Majesty's Government have pursued, and
It is untrue to say that the present
which they themselves believe has
movement in Malaya is in any way
seriously aggravated the difficulties.
Nationalist or anti-British.There is.
What exactly is that policy? That is
naturally, as the result of the war, a
not a rhetorical question. I do not know
greater feeling of Nationalism in the coun-
the answer myself, and I do not really
try, but to paint a picture of rising in-
believe that His Majesty's Government
dignation against British rule is totally
know the answer. A post-mortem is
untrue. We also failed to round up the
never a very satisfactory procedure, cer-
large numbers of notorious " bad hats."
tainly for the corpse, but I think that in
Whilst this was going on, and before the
this case we might examine the history
country had been completely cleaned up.
H.L. 40 D 6

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.99)
.325
Malaya
[.10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
326
we attempted to launch there an over-
home. I believe, in short, that His
ambitious scheme of social reform. I use
Majesty's Government have misappreci-
the word " we": I do not quite know
ated the dangers of the situation in
what is meant by " we." I do not know
Malaya for the whole of the last three
what should be the apportionment of
years.
blame between His Majesty's Government
I should like to give your Lordships
—although His Majesty's Government
one final example. Your Lordships will
are, of course, ultimately responsible—
remember that we were told upon July 1
and the late Sir Edward Gent.
of this year that the civil authorities in
It is an easy and contemptible thing
Malaya had at their disposal in the coun-
to heap abuse upon the memory of a
try all the armed forces that were neces-
dead man, but I believe that Sir Édward
sary for the maintenance of law and
Gent is not so responsible for what hap-
order. Since that date, Malaya has seen
pened as is generally believed. Cer-
the arrival of no fewer than five battalions
tainly, when he went out from this
of British infantry. Not even this Gov-
country to Malaya, he saw eye to eye
ernment ought to be that wrong! This
with the Government. When he got
conflict may or may not have been
there and tried to solve on the ground
avoidable. Certainly, we have aggravated
problems which were all too easy to solve.
it by our policy. A certain amount of
on paper, in Whitehall, he radically
forethought and courage would have miti-
changed his views. It was the difficulty
gated the trouble considerably. This
that he experienced in making the
trouble in Malaya, so far, has cost us
Colonial Office realise that he had
250 killed. It will cost us more. It has also
changed his views which caused so much
cost us £3,000,000 of money. It will cost us
administrative confusion in Malaya, with-
more. For all the optimism exercised by
out in any way shaking the Government's
high officials, there is still a long and
optimism and complacency at home. His
bitter conflict ahead before even the
Majesty's Government are themselves
Asian population can be protected
clearly responsible for several things.
against intimidation.
They withheld from Sir Edward Gent
We have heard and read in the news-
the power of banishment, which his pre-
decessors had always needed for the main-
papers how unfortunate this campaign is.
tenance of law and order. They revoked
in view of the fact that at the moment
the system whereby secret societies had
Malaya earns the largest number of
to establish their bona fides before they
dollars in the British Empire. I would
could be legalised. There are many other
say categorically. however, that my
matters that I could quote as examples
primary interest in Malaya, and my
of the curious ways in which Whitehall
anxiety, are in no way connected with the
tried to solve the Malayan problem.
question of dollars or dividends. I am
concerned with the lives and the safety of
Perhaps I may give one small example
His Majesty's subjects in Malaya. There-
which will illustrate what I am trying
fore, we assure His Majesty's Government
to say. Clause 7 (3) of the Malayan
that they will have our complete support
Trades Union (Amendments) Bill was
in any proposals that they put forward to
before the Malayan Legislature for con-
end this campaign and to reduce the
sideration in May of this year. That
bloodshed. If the problems in the past
clause lays down that no man may hold
have been difficult, those of the future are
office in a trade union until he has served
no easier. What, for instance, is to pre-
for three years in that particular trade
vent Malaya from becoming a second
or calling. That is a reasonable enough
Palestine? The pattern is now all too
provision, one would have thought, but,
familiar: Ulstermen and the Southern
for some extraordinary reason. London
Irish, Hindu and Moslem, Arab and Jew
ordered Kualar Lumpur to strike that
—and now Chinese and Malay. The two
clause out of the Bill. Why? One is led
peoples jogged along comfortably enough
to the suspicion that certain members of
before the Second World War, but the
the Cabinet at home were more than a
Japanese did everything they could to
little uneasy about a provision which in-
drive a wedge between them, and met
sisted that a man should be qualified in
with a fair measure of success.
his job before he could be appointed to
a high office. That principle may have
The Chinese have not come well out of
caused uneasiness in Cabinet circles at
this present campaign of terror. Nearly
H.L. 40 D 7

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.99)
327
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
328
[Lord Mancroft.]
and introduce some form of federation;
all the bandits are Chinese, and nearly
and that displeased the Chinese as much
all the forces of law and order are Malay.
as the Malayan Union had displeased
Over 20,000 Malayans have joined the
the Malays. Both sections now have an
police since the trouble began, and only
impression of vacillation, of uncertainty.
400 Chinese. Nevertheless, all the
They do not know what we are going to
money, initiative, enterprise and trade
do next.
come from the Chinese. They are multi-
How do we envisage the future Con-
plying fast. They are rapidly overtaking
stitution of the Malayan Peninsula? It
the Malays. Our debt of loyalty is to
is, as I have said, confused. The noble
the Malays. It is not a sufficient answer
Lord, Lord Killearn, with his organisa-
merely to say that because Malaya has
tion, has now left. That still leaves,
been Malayan for 4,000 years, it must
however, three separate organisations.
stay Malayan. That is an unrealistic
At the top—at least. I think it is at the
answer. Some modus vivendi must be
top—there is the Commissioner-General,
found. The Chinese, unfortunately, are
Mr. Malcolm MacDonald, who is there
looking over their shoulders to China.
in an advisory capacity. in a co-ordinat-
Their roots are not deep enough in
ing capacity, but who has no executive
Malaya. They are looking back to a
authority. He is, in fact, the ultimate
chaotic and Communist-ridden China--a
authority without any authority. He is
China which has no love for us. The
the man to whom decisions must be re-
Chinese are perfectly prepared to be loyal
ferred, but who is unable to decide. He
to us in Malaya provided it is worth their
is the one thing which is anathema to
while, and provided they see something
the oriental mind—the ruler who cannot
concrete to which they can give their
rule. Then, under him, we have the
loyalty. Some are doubting that at the
Federation of Malaya, with a High Com-
moment.
missioner and a large staff, a Colonial
The first question I would ask His
Secretary, a Chief Justice, and all the
Majesty's Government is. therefore:
administrative trimmings; and then just
What is His Majesty's policy with regard
across the Johore Causeway, we find the
to the rift between the Chinese and the
Customs House between Johore and
Malayans? How do they envisage
Singapore—that fine monument to
enabling these two peoples, both of whom
Socialist imperialism. Then we come to
are worth so much, to settle down to
Singapore, where we have a Harbour
some happy form of life? Some form of
Board to look after the Docks. the
constitutional revision must inevitably be
Admiralty concerning itself with the
involved. The history of the Constitu-
naval dockyard in the north, a city coun-
tion in Malaya has not been a happy
cil looking after the government of the
one; it has been one of muddle and con-
city in an island the size of the Isle of
fusion. I suppose the trouble was that
Wight, and, on top of all that, another
priorities were wrong in the planning
Governor, Council, and Colonial Secre-
stage. It is, of course, easy to be wise
tary with all his trimmings.
after the event, but I should have thought
The astonishing thing is that, despite
it would have been wise to use the
this excess of Excellencies, despite this
old Constitution which worked well, and
gubernatorial gallimaufry, Singapore
so get the country out of the chaos. In-
appears to be tolerably well governed.
stead, however. we took out a prefabri-
How much longer can we allow this
cated Constitution and fastened it on the
ridiculous situation to go on? Surely
country while chaos still reigned. The
it must be possible to devise some sort
Malayan Union was all right in its way.
of amalgamation which will allow the
The Constitution itself, as far as it went,
Commissioner-General to govern, which
was not so bad. It had some good
will not allow the predominantly
points. But it was the way in which we
Chinese influence of Singapore to out-
tried to force it down the throats of the
weigh the whole of the Malay feeling in
Malays which was wrong. It amounted
the rest of the country. Can we not stop
almost to sharp practice—certainly the
thinking about the Federation of Malaya
Sultans thought so, and certainly the
and Colony of Singapore, and think of
Malays thought so. Then we were
Malaya as a country?
What is His
forced, almost in the face of serious
Majesty's Government's idea of the
trouble. to retractcompletely and try
future of Malaya? How do they envisage
HL.40 D

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.99)
329
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
330
the country in five or ten years time?
Communism when they are prepared to
How do they see orderly progress
pay for them to do the same task in
towards Dominion status—or do they
Greece?"
favour the delight of the Chancellor of
Why should our war damage contribu-
the Exchequer in the pending liquidation
tion to the Malays, who still look with
of the British Empire? I cannot help
loyalty to the Crown, be so much less
thinking, if I may say so with respect.
than our war damage contribution to the
that the Chancellor of the Exchequer was
Burmese, who now look to the Kremlin
in no way helping the situation when he
for their guidance? They ask even
made that deplorable speech. What
whether it is in their interests to continue
must the people in Malaya think when
to allow us to derive the vast profit and
a responsible Minister of the Crown (a
advantage which we do from a Malaya
Minister of the Crown to whom many of
which is able to earn more dollars than
us now look for sanity, judgment and
we can. They look in fact with a critical
common sense) indulges in a piece of
eye on the future conduct of His
catchpenny clap-trap like that? What
Majesty's Government. They are looking
effect must that have in Malaya?
for firmness, and all they have had is
If His Majesty's Government are
Fabian flabbiness. They are looking
seriously considering promoting the
for leadership, and all they get are
evacuation of the British from Malaya.
lectures from the London School of
they are doing that country no good
Economics. His Majesty's Government
service. Neither the Chinese nor the
must stop playing politics in Malaya. One
Malays are competent to run the country
suspects—but I am prepared to be con-
without British help. and they are both
tradicted—that the Colonial Office do not
aware of it. The Chinese are far too
really understand what is happening
interested in making money ever to be
there, and are not prepared to learn.
interested in running a country. The
My Lords, Malaya is the last bulwark
Malays are not political animals; they
against Communism and chaos in the
are loyal, honest, friendly and simple.
Far East. We have never had a better
They lack, in fact, every quality of the
friend than Malaya, and now we are on
rising politician. There are few politicians
in Malaya and fewer statesmen. There
trial in front of our friends. In two wars
are all too few men of the quality of
the Malayans have poured out men and
Dato Onn Bin Ja'afar. the Prime Minister
money to come to our aid in times of
of Johore.
danger. The Malayans themselves are
now in danger. They look to us for
What are His Majesty's Government
help. They look to us to repay what
doing to promote a greater sense of civic
they regard as a debt of loyalty. We,
activity in Malaya? Are we to allow
in our turn, look to His Majesty's Gov-
the situation to drift, as we have done so
ernment to profit by their past mistakes.
often in the past, optimistically hoping
It is in the hope, therefore, that His
that the people will find their feet and
Majesty's Government will forget their
master the art of self-government? The
past ideas, repair their past mistakes and
road to self-government necessitates, more
bend their minds to the task of leading
than anything, hard work; and until we
Malaya back to the peace and prosperity
get it out of our heads that the Malays
which she one enjoyed, and which surely
can reach their goal otherwise than by
she has the right to enjoy again, that I
this means there will be confusion and
beg to move for Papers.
probably bloodshed. Whether we like
it or not, we are now on trial in Malaya.
3.10 p.m.
Whether we like it or not, the Malays
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: My Lords.
think that we let them down in 1942.
I am on my feet now at the request of
when we failed to honour our bargain to
the noble Viscount opposite. I am
protect and guard their country. They
delighted to oblige him by providing a
feel they should not be called upon to
rather broader target than would other-
pay this £3,000,000 for a campaign
wise have been available for his verbal
which, they say, was aggravated by the
shafts, because we welcome any criticism
policy of His Majesty's Government.
or advice which any noble Lord may
They say: "Why are His Majesty's
wish to offer. We know that any criti-
Government not prepared to pay for the
cism made in this House will be delivered
use of British troops in Malaya to combat
without an undue dosage of Party
.L. 40 D 9

=== Page 502 === (confidence 1.00)
331
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
332.
[The Earl of Listowel.]
Lord referred—a forcing house for Com-
animus and with the sincere desire to help
munism. The young guerrillas not only
Malaya and to help us here to give the
studied Marxism and Leninism, but
Malayan authorities the support which
learnt the use of firearms and the tech-
they need. The noble Viscount, I think.
nique of guerrilla warfare, terrorism and
referred to me the other day as a useful,
sabotage which they are practising at this
or potentially useful, man for contacts
moment.
with different parts of the Common-
The appetite of the Communists for
wealth. That is exactly what I aspire to
power was whetted by the short interval
be. I spent a few weeks at the beginning
between the surrender and the withdrawal
of this year in Malaya, and I hope to
of the Japanese, and the establishment
give the House an accurate and fairly
of the British Military Administration.
comprehensive picture of the situation
for during this time elements of the
there and of the events that led up to it.
guerilla resistence forces assumed control
I shall also, of course, deal with policy.
of the administration in Malaya in
I venture to hope that there will be a
certain areas. They regarded themselves
wide measure of agreement between this
as the successors of the Japanese and
side of the House and noble Lords
as the forerunners of the Malayan Com-
opposite, because my story will consist
munist Republic. But in August, 1945.
largely of facts which I think have been
the British Administration obtained
to some extent misunderstood and, per-
effective control of the country. The
haps, on occasions, misrepresented.
guerrilla forces were ordered to disband
I should like to remind the House that
their men, and to hand in the arms with
the present outbreak of violence in
which they had been equipped to fight
Malaya is part of a widespread epidemic
the Japanese. We now know that instead
of violence in South East Asia resulting
of obeying these orders—as the noble
from the war. There have been similar
Lord opposite has mentioned—they must
happenings in Indo-China and Indonesia.
have hidden large quantities of the arms
and they are all a direct result of the
and ammunition abandoned by the
military measures that had to be taken
Japanese or dropped by Allied aircraft
by the Allied Forces to drive the
in the remoter parts of the country during
Japanese out of occupied territory. When
the war. It is difficult to tell, in the
the Japanese occupied Malaya, it was the
circumstances prevailing at that time
Chinese in Malaya who were mainly
whether it would have been possible to
responsible for organised resistance. All
avoid the concealment of large quantities
sections of the Chinese community joined
of arms and ammunition in remote parts
in the resistance movement, but the most
of the Malayan jungle. I have dwelt
powerful groups were the Communist-
at some length on this remoter historical
dominated Malayan People's Anti-
background of current events because it
Japanese Army and the Overseas Chinese
explains so much that is happening now.
Anti-Japanese Army organised by the
There are so many misunderstandings
Kuomintang. The high command was
about the real cause of our present diffi-
nominally shared by representatives of
culties. The Far Eastern War left in its
these two groups but, in fact, the Com-
wake a small but highly dangerous sec-
munist leaders retained control of the
tion of the population soaked in Com-
whole resistance movement and used this
munist ideology, trained and disciplined
golden opportunity to indoctrinate the
in guerrilla tactics, and in possession of
rank and file. drawn from the poorer
a substantial supply of arms and ammuni-
classes of Chinese, in Communism. Thus
tion. I think everyone will agree that it
it was that as long ago as that the
was not the fault of the United Kingdom
Malayan Communist Party, during the
Government, or of the civil authorities
three years in which the resistance move-
in Malaya, that this powder magazine
ment was the sole organised opposition
was inherited by the Civil Administra-
to the Japanese, had sufficient time to
tion when they took over from the
give the raw recruits to the guerrillas a
Military Government.
thorough schooling in the theory and the
The war and the Japanese occupation
practice of Communism. The jungle
became what has been termed—pic-
strengthened the hands of the Com-
turesquely but accurately. I think in the
munists in yet another way. We all know
Awbery-Dalley Report to which the noble
that Communism thrives on misery. and,
H.L. 40 D 10

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.99)
333
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
334
indeed, I think it was Karl Marx who
and in March of that year—as long ago
objected to social reform in capitalist
as March. 1946—decided to banish a
countries because it lessens the misery
number of the union leaders. This did
of the people. The Civil Administration
not stop the process of infiltration into
was immediately faced on its return by
the trade unions. The success of this
the economic consequences of the inter-
Communist campaign can be measured
ruption of trade and the virtual cessation
by the fact that in 1947 there were 360
of production in an immensely rich ter-
strikes or labour disputes in the Federa-
ritory during the war years. There was
tion alone, involving about 70,000
a general and grave shortage of rice, the
workers. During the investigation of
staple diet in Malaya. and food prices
these disputes many cases of intimidation.
were soaring. The Governments of the
in which the workers were forced by
Federation decided, very wisely, I think.
threats of violence to strike, came to
in view of the position, to ration rice
light, and there is no doubt that the
and to control the price. Even so, in
power of the Communists in the Unions
the early period after the liberation the
was not at any moment due to their
daily ration amounted to only 3.3 ounces,
numbers but to their blackmailing
or less than one half of the present ration
methods, which is something of which
which everyone regards as a bare
we have no experience in this country
minimum—7.6 ounces in the Federation
and which is hard to believe unless one
and 8.2 ounces in Singapore. Many
has seen it at work.
thousands of manual workers in the early
We lack sufficient knowledge to be
days, after the Japanese had been driven
able to say exactly why the Communist
out, were kept on their feet only by buy-
Party in Malaya decided to switch over
ing food at exorbitant prices on the black
from indirect to direct action and to
market.
This period of real hunger
attempt the overthrow of the Government
among large sections of the population
of the Federation by the organised
provided fresh grist for the Communist
violence and sabotage which began in
mill.
It was the occupation and the
June of this year. There were no doubt
distress that followed it that made the
several factors which contributed to this
Communists so formidable in Malaya.
change of mind. We cannot discount out-
Now there have been, I think. two
side influence, which the pattern of Com-
distinct and successive phases in Com-
munist violence in South East Asia
munist policy, since the liberation, for
obviously suggests. It had also become
imposing their will upon the people of
clear that the two Governments were
the country. The first, which lasted from
determined to break Communist influence
August, 1945, to May, 1948, was the
in the unions and to see that organised
phase of indirect action, of avoiding overt
labour developed on the normal lines of
and organised violence and keeping care-
collective bargaining for economic objec-
fully and deliberately within the legal
tives. Then the rehabilitation and econo-
and constitutional framework, both in the
mic recovery of the country was making
Federation and in Singapore. At this
large strides forward. Rice had become
time, the Malayan Communist Party set
increasingly plentiful and constitutional
out to capture the trade unions by in-
advances in both Singapore and the
filtrating into their membership. by
Federation were attracting moderate
planting their cells wherever they found
opinion towards co-operation with the
a large group of workers, organised or
authorities. The prospect of advance
unorganised, and by linking together
towards self-government by orderly and
their separate unions and cells in a
gradual stages and of a steadily improving
General Labour Union. They hoped in
standard of life may well have convinced
this way to produce economic chaos, and
the Communists that their future was
to be able thereafter to dictate their terms
black.
to the authorities.
In 1946, the General Labour Union,
Some or all of these considerations were
this Communist federation of unions, had
no doubt in the minds of the Communist
captured all the unions in Singapore and
leaders when, acknowledging the failure
was able to call a short general strike.
of their efforts to get their way by con-
But the Government of the Colony per-
stitutional means, they decided to impose
ceived the immense danger in the
their will by force upon the vast majority
political use of this economic weapon,
of the inhabitants of Malaya. What we
H.L. 40 D 11

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.99)
335
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
336
[The Earl of Listowel.]
trouble-makers are essentially a Chinese
now know is that it would have been im-
revolutionary movement is that their
possible for the authorities in Malaya to
victims have been mainly not British or
anticipate the switch-over to direct action
Malay officials or British business men.
much in advance of the date when the
but the Chinese political opponents of the
outbreak began, because the decision was
Chinese Communists. May I illustrate
not taken by the Communist leaders them-
that again from the casualty figures? In
selves earlier than March of this year.
the last five months, 262 civilian men,
From the moment it became evident that
women and children have been murdered
revolutionary violence had been adopted.
by the bandits. Of these, 20 were Euro-
the two Governments did not hesitate to
peans, 8 Indians, 38 Malays and 189, or
take special powers, with the full support
about three times the number of all the
of my right honourable friend the Secre-
other victims put together, were Chinese.
tary of State, and to act with the utmost
The conclusion which I think one can
firmness to stamp out this campaign of
legitimately draw from these facts and
murder and sabotage.
tigures is that the great majority of the
After five months of fighting in
population of the Malay Peninsula and
Malaya, it is not too early to say that the
ihe island of Singapore—European,
Communist bandits have failed, utterly
Malay, Indian and Chinese—abhors the
and completely, to achieve their ends.
dastardly crimes- that are being com-
They have not overthrown the established
mitted by a handful of violent men, and
Government of the country; they have
that thcir loyalty remains unshaken by
not paralysed its economic life, and they
the perverse ingenuity of Communist pro-
have completely failed to rally any sub-
paganda. The average inhabitant of
stantial proportion of the peoples of
every race is in fact co-operating splen-
Malaya to their side. Let me deal with
didly with the authorities in their efforts
my last point first. The population of
to restore law and order at the earliest
the Federation and Singapore numbers
possible moment. Their support has
about 6,000,000. The terrorist bands
been shown in deeds and in the personal
muster between 3,000 and 5,000 armed
risks they have accepted, as well as in
men and receive active support from a
words. Appeals have been made for
few thousand Communist supporters. It
auxiliary police and special constables to
is evident from this that they, civilian and
help in the protection of villages, estates,
armed bandits taken together, represent
mines and other likely targets. The
only a minute fraction of the total
response from the local population was
population.
admirable and exemplary. Ten thousand
auxiliary police and 25,000 special con-
The movement is recruited almost
stables were raised without any sub-
entirely from the Chinese in Malaya.
stantial delay—every single man after the
I am glad that the noble Lord, Lord
trouble had begun in June. In fact, the
Mancroft, made that point so abundantly
response was so good that the best men
clear. This is borne out strikingly by the
only were taken and many willing volun-
latest figures of casualties amongst the
teers had to be turned away.
bandits since the outbreak began. Of
The bandits have also failed to para-
the total number killed and captured to
lyse the economic life of the country.
date, 435 were Chinese, 15 were Malays.
2 were Indians and 6 were foreigners.
They had hoped by murders and threats
of killing to intimidate the Tabourers on
This does not mean, of course—and it
would be a great misfortune if anyone
the rubber estates and in the tin mines.
were to draw the wrong conclusion—that
on the railways and at the docks, so that
the Chinese community in Malaya is
the labour force throughout Malaya
against us. On the contrary, the over-
would be terrified into laying down their
whelming majority of the Chinese are on
tools. This would have brought the trade
our side. Many of them are British
and industry of the country to a com-
subjects who have lived for generations
plete standstill. But far from being inti-
in Malaya, whereas a number of the
midated by these armed gangs. which
Chinese Communists are recent immi-
sprang out at them from their hiding
grants whose loyalty is to China, and
places in the jungle, labour and manage-
not to Malaya or the Commonwealth.
ment in many of the concerns on which
Another indication of the fact that the
the prosperity of Malaya has been built
H.L. 40 D 12

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.99)
.337
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
338
carried on their jobs without loss of
strip of open country running down the
morale or decrease in efficiency. For
coast. The wooded rubber estates and
example, rubber production has been
wild jungle are ideal hiding places for
splendidly maintained. Production in
these small bands of armed fanatics.
April of this year, a typical pre-
They are careful not to operate with a
disturbance month, still reflecting the tide
large or concentrated military force.
of recovery, was just over 66,000 tons.
limiting their striking units to small
In September it had climbed again to
groups of twelve to twenty men.
64,000 tons, and at no time fell more
than fractionally below 50,000 tons.
Each small band conducts its local
campaign of killing. burning and sabot-
In the case of other primary products.
age. They choose their own time and
the rise in production has been virtually
place to ambush a car, raid a village or
uninterrupted. Production of palm oil
cut a railway track. When the job is
in April was 3,600 tons; in September it
done they retreat again to their jungle
had risen to 4,300 tons. Coconut oil pro-
camps. When opposed. they never stand
duction in April was 4,000 tons; in
and fight. As soon as police or troops
September, well over 5,000 tons was pro-
appear on the scene they escape into the
duced. Tin production has climbed
immense expanse of trackless under-
steadily from 3,500 tons in April to
growth, where they cannot be seen or
nearly 4,000 tons in August, and very
followed by their pursuers. Of course.
little less in September. The output of
they would not survive long in the jungle
coal has increased from 27,000 tons in
without supplies of food, but unfortun-
April to 31,500 tons in September. I
ately they are at present in a position
apologise for wearying the House with
to obtain the food they want from the
a string of figures, but I think your Lord-
thousands of squatters whose paddy
ships will excuse me, because I am using
fields and vegetable gardens lie close to
them to prove something of outstanding
their jungle encampments.
Sometimes
importance. I am sure your Lordships
voluntarily, but usually under compulsion,
will agree that these figures are solid
these squatters feed and shelier the
testimony to the resolution and loyalty
terrorists, and it is quite impossible for
of the primary producers of Malaya.
the police to watch every area in which
I should like at this point to pay a
these widely scattered settlements are
tribute, with which I am sure the House
placed. Some of their villages have
would wish to be associated, to the
been destroyed by our forces, and their
courage and determination of the gallant
inhabitants resettled in arears where they
body of men and women, many of them
can be watched by the police. I can
living in remote and isolated places, who
assure the House that we are carefully
have continued to do their normal work
considering other measures to deal with
despite the ordeal of recent months. All
the squatter problem, and that action will
the time they were under the shadow of
not be ineffective or delayed.
this terror which lurked, day and night,
These are local conditions which make
in the jungle.
the rooting out of these armed bandits
I have told your Lordships that the
a slow and difficult process, and which
armed Communists do not number more
enable them to strike back with isolated
than from 3,000 to 5,000 men. They
acts of murder and sabotage. But what-
are, of course, enormously outnumbered
ever advantage they may take of these
by our soldiers and armed police, and
opportunities of concealment and escape.
they would be easily wiped out, or forced
we for our part—the Malayan autho-
to surrender, if they were operating in
rities, and His Majesty's Government who
open country. But they have one ally
are supporting them—shall continue our
peculiar to the area in which they are
military action against the bandits until
fighting which we cannot destroy, and
the last gang is broken up and the last
which will undoubtedly prolong their re-
bandit captured or destroyed. Our
sistance. This ally is the tropical jungle
counter-measures have already altered the
which covers most of the Peninsula. No
tactics of the bandits, who are now less
one who has travelled across it by air
ambitious in their choice of targets, con-
will forget the green sea of dense jungle
fining themselves to those easiest to
growth, stretching from one side to the
attack, such as single vehicles and un-
other. until it gives way to a narrow
guarded communications.
H.L. 40 D 13

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
339
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
340.
[The Earl of Listowel.]
constant menace of sudden stoppages, or
During the past month the bandits have
even outbreaks of violence. We owe a
carried out a number of attacks on rail-
great deal to the trade union advisers of
ways and road communications. Our
both Governments, whose efforts to foster
own activities have been widespread, and
the healthy development of workers'
in Johore and the Sungei Siput area of
organisations along the right lines have
Perak have been particularly successful.
undoubtedly saved them from falling
During the last week of October thirteen
completely into the hands of the Malayan
bandits were killed and two wounded.
Communist Party. I think it is very im-
and thirteen enemy camps were located
portant that there should be no misunder-
by our forces. In the week ending
standing about the contribution that
November 5—the last full week for which
healthy democratic trade unionism has
we have the figures—seven bandits were
made to prevent the sort of trade
killed and four wounded, and four camps
unionism dominated by the Communists.
were destroyed, while between November
which has done so much damage in
6 and November 8 ten more bandits were
Malaya. When I was in Malaya I heard
killed by the armed police—that is, in
many tributes from Indian, Chinese and
the last two days. The number and effec-
Malay trade union officials to the
tiveness of our operations will increase
encouragement which they had received
steadily with the stronger ferret forces
from the trade union departments of the
which will be available as the training
Government, and I know that these tri-
of military and police in jungle warfare
butes were thoroughly deserved.
progresses.
I will cite only two examples—although
But it is not only by military measures
many others might be given if time
that the authorities have set out to crush
allowed—of what the authorities have
Communist violence in Malaya. Revolu-
done, and are doing, to improve the social
tionary violence and extreme political
services in Malaya. These two examples
views are nourished by want and despair.
I will take from education and housing.
They spread where material standards are
A ten-year programme of educational
low, where there is small prospect of their
development was prepared both in the
improvement by higher wages and better
Federation and in Singapore immediately
social conditions, and where the
after the return of the civil Government.
machinery for peaceful constitutional
The principal aim of this programme is
change in response to public opinion is
universal literacy, by means of a system
defective or wholly absent. Our policy in
of free primary education for all children
Malaya, ever since the war ended (and I
—the same type of system that we have
am prepared to defend it to the utmost.
in this country. There will be a gradual
even though, I may add, that policy has
elimination of the present system of
not been the policy of any single Party.
separate vernacular schools, and everyone
but the policy of a series of Governments.
will learn English. This, of course, will
controlled by different Parties, in this
cover girls as well as boys, and the mini-
country) has been to raise material
mum primary course will last six years.
standards and to encourage the movement
The importance of this educational basis
towards political freedom, not only
for racial understanding and co-operation
because these things are good in them-
—the need for which was emphasised, and
selves. but because they are the best
rightly emphasised, by the noble Lord.
possible antidote to the Communist virus.
Lord Mancroft—can hardly be exag-
I have already mentioned the improved
gerated, and it is no less important for
standard of life which has resulted from
the intelligent use of the franchise in time
to come.
a more plentiful supply of rice for the
average worker in the towns and in the
The most significant advance in higher
countryside. To champion the worker's
education is the acceptance of the recom-
rights in his employment we have en-
mendation of the Carr Saunders Commis-
couraged the growth of a vigorous demo-
sion that there should be a University of
cratic trade union movement, which has
Malaya, with power to grant degrees
already secured many advantages for
equivalent to those given by any other
employees in different occupations, and
university, and with the three faculties of
has benefited employers by substituting
Arts, Science and Medicine. There will.
stable, contractual relationships for the
of course, be no bar to entry on the
H.L. 40 D 14

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
.341
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
342
grounds of race or religion, and the ex-
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: It is a
tension of university education to those
very large scheme. I am certainly
sections of the population which have not
prepared to modify my epithet, in
hitherto benefited according to their num-
deference to the noble Lord. I am quite
bers should result in a more balanced
convinced, however, that only a large
social structure, with the Malays taking
scheme can meet the needs of Singapore.
a full share in appointments to Govern-
I am convinced that the realisation of
ment service and to the different profes-
this programme will contribute more to
sions. It is fortunate that the existence
the health and happiness of the people
of Raffles College and the King
of Singapore than any other social
Edward VII College of Medicine in Singa-
service that has hitherto been undertaken
pore will provide a nucleus for the new
by the Colonial Government.
university. The university is to be built
As the noble Lord, Lord Mancroft,
on a new site at Johore Bahru, but it is
hoped to start degree courses in the build-
made particular reference to this subject,
ings of the College of Medicine and
I should like to say something about the
Raffles College as early as October, 1949.
record and prospects of constitutional
The capital cost of this project is esti-
progress in the Federation and Singapore,
mated to be between £3,000,000 and
and to persuade your Lordships—if
£4,000,000, of which £1,000,000 has been
persuasion be needed—that the record
earmarked by the United Kingdom Gov-
is good and the prospect fair. Our
ernment. When I was in Singapore I had
policy was laid down in the Federation
the privilege of meeting Dr. Allen, who
of Malaya Agreement between the Malay
is Principal-designate of the new univer-
Rulers and the late High Commissioner.
sity, and I can assure your Lordships that
Sir Edward Gent. This Agreement was
the planning for its future could not be in
foreshadowed in the White Paper of
better or more experienced hands.
July, 1947, and I should like to remind
your Lordships of the paragraph about
I should like to say something about
the aim and the method of political
housing, especially with reference to
evolution in Malaya. This paragraph
Singapore. No-one can have visited that
records that it is the desire of His Majesty
great teeming city without being horrified
and Their Highnesses the Rulers that
by the congested living conditions of the
progress should be made towards
Chinese population, and the high incidence
eventual self-government, and that as a
of tuberculosis is, of course, largely a
first step to that end. His Majesty and
result of bad housing. The Singapore
Their Highnesses have agreed that, as
Improvement Trust. set up by the
soon as circumstances and local con-
Colonial Government, has already done
ditions permit, legislation should be
good work in Singapore, and during last
introduced for the election of members
year the building programme included
to the several Legislatures which were
four new housing projects and amounted
to be established under the Agreement.
to a total of 1,500,000 Straits dollars. I
The institutions of government set up
saw some of the new flats that have been
subsequently by the Federation Agree-
completed. They seemed to me to be
thoroughly well constructed and
ment represent a remarkable advance
in the constitutional evolution of Malaya,
equipped. and they were immensely
appreciated by their occupants. The
and mark another stage on the road
Singapore Housing Committee, which is
towards self-government. For the first
responsible for planning. has also recom-
time in the history of the Federation, a
mended the creation of eight satellite
Legislative Council, in which all the
towns of 50,000 inhabitants each on
communities of Malaya are represented.
Singapore Island, outside the city. This
has power to legislate about matters of
is a most grandiose and ambitious
common concern to the peoples of the
housing scheme. The estimated cost of
country. Of the seventy-five members
this long-term housing project is about
of the Federal Legislative Council, only
£35,500,000, spread over a period of
fourteen, besides the High Commissioner.
twenty years. The noble Lord opposite
are officials. There is thus an over-
seems to be slightly sceptical
whelming unofficial majority drawn from
LorD HAWKE: I said, " Hear, hear
all the different sections of the
at the word " grandiose."
population.
H.L. 40 D 15

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.99)
343
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
344.
[The Earl of Listowel.]
these bodies will have to wait. Never-
I had the good fortune to attend the
theless, I should like to repeat, as our
opening session of this legislative body
policy has been called in question by the
last February. I was particularly
noble Lord opposite, that it remains the
impressed by the breadth of vision and
firm intention of His Majesty's Govern-
progressive spirit of the speeches of the
ment, of the Government of the Federa-
leaders of the Chinese and Malay groups
tion, and of Their Highnesses the Rulers
in this assembly. Both Dr. Ong Chong
of the States, that the policy recorded in
Keng, whose untimely death all who
the Federation Agreement to bring an
knew him will deplore, and Dato Onn
elected element into the various Legis-
Bin Ja'afar, emphasised the duty of
latures shall be carried out at the earliest
every resident in the Peninsula to place
possible moment.
loyalty to Malaya before loyalty to any
In Singapore also there has been a con-
section, however large, of its population.
This, surely, is the answer to what the
siderable constitutional advance since the
war. From April 1 of this year, the first
noble Lord, Lord Mancroft, said earlier.
This is the spirit which will enable the
meeting of the first Legislative Council of
Chinese and the Malays to live together
the Colony to contain elected representa-
tives took place. The first elections in
in amity in time to come, and it is
the history of Singapore happened this
evidence that this spirit already exists.
year. This Council also has an unofficial
We are all aware of the statesmanlike
qualities of Dato Onn, the leader of the
majority. I would emphasise—because I
United Malayan National Organisation.
am sure all noble Lords who give reflec-
of his record of service as Mentri Besar
tion to this point will agree—that it is
no less desirable in the case of Singapore
of Johore, and of the pre-eminent part
that the new machinery of government
which he played in bringing about the
wider outlook among the Malays re-
on an elective basis should be given a fair
trial before we proceed to the next stage
quired for support of the principle of
of democratic self-rule.
Federation. I am delighted to see that
he is present at this debate this afternoon.
The noble Lord, Lord Mancroft, has
I can assure him that his services in the
complained about over-government in
past, and during our present difficulties
Malaya, and before I proceed to answer
in Malaya, are greatly appreciated by all
that criticism I should like, if I may. to
those who recognise his wise and
thank him for the helpful and con-
inspiring leadership.
structive note he struck in the speeches
I think it should be stressed that the
which he made during his short personal
visit to Malaya. I wish to record our
latest constitutional advance in the
appreciation of his thoroughly help-
Federation is extremely recent and was
ful and altogether patriotic behaviour
completed only this year. It is essential
whilst he was in Malaya. I am also,
that sufficient time should be allowed to
needless to say, appreciative of his
elapse for the new system of government
thoughtful speech to-day, and none the
to get firmly established before any
less because of the occasional barbed
other step forward is taken. Apart from
shafts which were, quite properly, aimed
the necessity for allowing the new
at the Government.' The noble Lord re-
machine to be run in, I am sure your
ferred particularly. I think, to over-
Lordships will appreciate that the present
government in Malaya and to the
disorders, during which the main pre-
existence of Singapore as a separate
occupation of the Administration must
Colony cut off from the mainland; and
be the restoration of law and order, are
he emphasised the increased efficiency
bound to delay the next stage of consti-
and considerable economies which would
tutional development. For example.
result from the entry of Singapore into the
there can be no elections to the State
Federation. Our policy in this connec-
and Federal Legislatures until the names
tion adheres to the terms of the White
of all Federal citizens have been entered
Paper of July, 1947. May I remind him
and inscribed on an electoral roll. It is
of what was said in the concluding para-
not possible, under present conditions, to
graph of this White Paper?
carry out a registration of Federal
"It is no part of the policy of His Majesty's
citizens, and it follows that the legislation
Government to preclude or prejudice in any
required for the election of members to
way the fusion of Singapore and the Malayan
H.L. 40 D 16

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
·345
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
346
.Union in a wider Union at a later date should
knowledge and extremely wise and fair
it be considered that such a course were
in its appreciation. We are also much
desirable."
obliged to the Minister of State for
This refers to an earlier official statement
following that speech so promptly and
in the White Paper from which I have
for giving us, as indeed is right and
quoted.
necessary, the Government's answer and
"His Majesty's Government still hold this
such information as he could give upon
view and believe that the question of Singa-
this situation. I can assure the noble
pore joining in a Federation should be con-
Earl that not only do we all in this House
sidered on its merits and in the light of local
opinion at an appropriate time. The new Gov-
join in the expression of sympathy and
ernments and Legislatures in the two territories
hope which he has just uttered, but also
will be the appropriate authorities to consider
in assuring His Majesty's Government of
any demand for the inclusion of Singapore
the fullest support in any effective action
within the Federation.
The question is
one on which considerable difference of
to suppress Communist terrorism and
opinion exists in Malaya, but the establish-
insurrection and restore peace and
ment of the new Federal Constitution will be
prosperity to that great land.
without prejudice to the possibility of Singa-
pore joining the Federation at some later
Our duty to-day in this debate is two-
date."
fold. We are concerned to see how far
I think the noble Lord will agree that
the present misfortunes—which the noble
this statement leaves it open for Singa-
Earl, the Minister of State, has not
pore to enter the Federation by mutual
underrated—could have been avoided by
agreement between the two territories and
truer appreciation of the situation and by
that the United Kingdom would not lift
carlier action; and also to see what
a finger to interfere with any such
further measures, if any, the Government
arrangement. At the same time it must
should take to bring these grave matters
be recognised that the primary respon-
to a more speedy conclusion. We must
sibility of restoring and maintaining law
consider the past because it has such a
and order should for the present take
definite bearing upon the present; indeed.
precedence of all other matters requiring
it is not merely that the present follows
the time and energy of the authorities
it in time, but also that a great deal that
in the Federation and Singapore.
has happened is the direct consequence
of what has been done, and still more
I apologise for having spoken at this
of what has been left undone, in the
length, but I have been doing my best
past. The Government were very com-
to give as objective and faithful a picture
placent during, at any rate, the first two
as possible of the situation in Malaya.
years. I am going to justify that state-
This is a grim, anxious and trying time
ment presently. Certainly they ought to
for all Government servants in Malaya,
have known the true facts, and ought to
and the shadow of this terror still hangs
have foreseen what would happen. They
over them. I think your Lordships would
knew from the very start—the noble Earl
wish me to convey a message of sym-
has said so—that there were great
pathy and support from this House to the
supplies of arms in the hands of these
civil and military authorities and their
Communists and guerrillas at the close of
subordinates in every rank and grade of
the war. Were the officers of Force 136
the Civil Service, the Armed Services and
asked where these arms were likely to
the Police, both in the Federation and
be found?
in Singapore. They are meeting the diffi-
The Government had seen the whole
culties and dangers of the present situa-
Communist pattern disclosed plainly in
tion in a spirit of service, with a courage
Indonesia and in Indo-China, and they
and determination we all admire, and I
knew from the very start that the Com-
know that we wish them the speedy and
munists were creating and controlling
complete success that their devotion to
these bogus trade unions. Yet, in the
duty deserves.
face of that, in May, 1946, the noble
3.57 p.m.
Viscount, Lord Hall, who was then
VISCOUNT SWINTON: My Lords. I
Secretary of State for the Colonies, when
think the noble Lord, Lord Mancroft,
asked about the position, admitted that
has put us all under a deep sense of obli-
in Singapore there had been wholesale
gation not only by introducing this debate
intimidation of workers, shopkeepers and
but by the masterly speech in which he
coolies by subversive elements whose
opened it. a speech full of first-hand
efforts approached direct challenge to
H.L. 40 D 17

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
347
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
348.
[Viscount Swinton.]
"They were to all intents and purposes the
Government. He said that there were
de facto Government of the country. Not
unnaturally, they spread the legend that they
isolated bands of robbers elsewhere. But
had driven the Japanese out and thus gained
he was quite hopeful that this was only
an added prestige.
a passing phase. He said that the situa-
It leads up to this: that the Government
tion had changed since November 15 (1
did all to establish freedom of speech and
do not know what happened on that
all the rest of it. The Report continues:
date). When he was asked whether the
"The Malayan Communist Party, however.
military forces were sufficient—and we
continued with their post-war plans—plans
must remember that military forces have
matured and drilled into the guerrilla groups
had to be sent out quarter by quarter
during the Occupation, as already described.
since then—he replied:
Long before the end of the year, indeed by
the time the British Military Administration
"Military forces are engaged with police in
took over in September, 1945, they
dealing with these matters; and I am satisfied
that is, the Communists-
that this co-operation is bringing about a
peaceful solution of the matter.
"had set up 'cells,' dubbed 'trade unions'
If that is not a complete lack of appre-
for every type of trader and worker from
miners and rubber workers to cabaret girls.
ciation of what the situation really was,
None of these were in the smallest degree
it was undue complacency. I am quite
representative or democratic; and the evidence
sure the noble Lord would not have been
is conclusive, both as regards their activities
and the men appointed to hold office, that
complacent if he had appreciated what
they were just mouthpieces of the Malayan
the situation was.
Communist Party. Their organisation was
One charge against the Government is
well tried and powerful; they had money and
they had contacts with other countries..."
that they ought to have appreciated what
Then the Report adds:
the situation was. Indeed, the facts were
known to them. And now, we have this
"The Malayan People's Anti-Japanese Army
Awbery-Dalley Report. As there are so
itself was disbanded but it continued to exist
(and still does) in the form of ex-Comrades
few copies of this Report available, per-
Associations and there was little attempt to
haps the House would bear with me if
disguise the connection between these Asso-
I made one or two quotations from it.
ciations and the controlled unions."
We can see from it that the Communist
Does not that show that, during the two
menace was absolutely plain for anyone
years of complacency by the Government.
to see in September, 1945—three years
it ought to have been, and it must have
ago. Let me read one or two passages
been, plain to them that there was this
from it. Here is one:
full-blooded Communist organisation in
a common pattern?
"... once in the jungle they found themselves
in a veritable Communist forcing-house. Each
Why should we be surprised at the way
control was a Communist cell with a military
this has worked out? It is the common
commander and a political commander on
approved lines."
pattern the world over, under ruthless
orders from top to bottom—terrorism,
They go on:
strikes, ample cash, ample arms and
"The object of this education was frankly
foreign contacts. Observe that this was
stated to be the preparation for a Communist
in a country which was not liberated by
republic of Malaya, and there is also the
evidence of written documents. The methods
the British Army defeating the enemy in
to be used, naturally enough, included as a
the field in battles on the spot; hostilities
most important object the infiltration into all
came to an end because of victories won
Labour movements and places of employ-
ment.
The most rigid discipline was
thousands of miles away. As the Awbery
enforced and all the guerrillas... were subject
Report says, the Communists were not
to direction from the Party in all aspects of
slow to spread the legend that it was
their lives, and the evidence goes to show
they and not the British who had driven
that they still are.
the Japanese out, and that they were the
Then, as the noble Lord has said, they
real conquerors. In the face of all that.
refer to the fact that these guerrillas came
why was not positive action taken at once.
down out of the jungle and established
particularly in view of the fact which the
themselves as the Government for a short
noble Earl has pointed out to-day, that
time before the Military Government
the Communist forces were told to dis-
came in.
band and to lay down their arms, but
The Report goes on to say—and this is
did not do so. Apparently, that was the
very interesting:
end of the matter.
H.L. 40 D 18

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
349
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
350
What should have been done is this:
was no action, they thought that we were
the Communist organisation should imme-
afraid; and so there was a vicious circle.
diately have been declared illegal. There
Those people who, as the noble Earl has
should have been no question of freedom
said, are very often, against their will.
of speech. Here we were faced with
compelled to comfort the King's enemies.
terrorism to be followed by an armed war.
are terrified to give evidence to us,
The leaders were all Chinese. I think,
although I agree that the vast majority
apart from a few other aliens. They
of them hate these people. That vicious
should have been deported. Why was not
circle continued because the Government
the power of deportation used? It is
did not take firm action. Nobody knew
absolutely necessary. I speak as one who
where we were going. For all I know.
for four years held the office of Secretary
a report may have been spread about that
of State for the Colonies. Even in those
we were going to evacuate the country.
peaceful days, the power of deportation
That was what was done by the people
was absolutely necessary in Malaya, with
in West Africa. When I was there during
its Chinese secret societies often terroris-
the late war. It was said that we were
ing people, and with its vast alien popu-
going to clear out. We soon made it
lation. But there were no deportations
quite plain that we were not going to
until 1947. This power of deportation,
clear out and that, if any clearing out
which dates. 1 think, from 1910, and
was to be done, it, was the people who
which the noble Lord said was so excep-
spread those reports who were going to
tional, was absolutely necessary in normal
clear out. There is nothing more calcu-
times, as anybody who has been either
lated to lose the confidence and co-opera-
Secretary of State for the Colonies or
tion of these loyal Malays than such
Governor of Malaya will affirm. Why in
inaction.
this brave crisis did the Colonial Office
prevent the Government from deporting?
The Colonial Secretary, who is the most
kind-hearted man, said in another place:
The local forces should have been
"We are determined to make Communism
maintained as far as possible. The police
an ineffective political force in our territories."
should have been reinforced and armed;
Communism is a great deal more than
and, above all, the arms should have been
a political force; Communism is armed
rounded up at the time when the officers
terrorist revolution. The Colonial Secre-
of Force 136 knew—or at least had a
tary seeks to excuse himself because the
very shrewd suspicion—where those arms
Communists did not resort to armed force
were. The Awbery Report says in 1945
that it was plain what the whole picture
until the spring of this year. The noble
was. Did the authorities really suppose that,
Earl said it to-day. He told us that at
when the Government, whether military
first, they tried all the subversive move-
ments, and that it was only in the spring
or civil, said " Will you please bring your
of this year, when they found that they
arms in and hand them over?" the Com-
could not get rid of the British Govern-
munists were likely to do so? Have they
ment and drive Malaya from the British
done so anywhere in the world? Of
Empire into Moscow, when they found
course not. The Government should have
that they could not do that by terrorism
followed that up and rounded up the
and beating up of good trade unionists
arms. I observed that the noble Earl
(which is what they were doing), that they
said to-day. as I think Mr. Awbery him-
resorted to force and to open warfare.
self, the author of this Report, said in
Why should we be surprised at that?
another place: " We could not do any-
Of course, they were going to attempt
thing against the Communists until they
to get what they could without having to
did something illegal." Why not? In the
fight for it. That is the technique. Hitler
face of this terrorism, why was not this
did just the same. So long as he could
Communist organisation at once made
get what he wanted without fighting, of
illegal? We could have rounded up the
course he did not wish to fight. But you
arms. We could have deported the un-
ought to have known that this was the
desirable aliens. We could have made
common picture and the common form
the bogus trade unions illegal.
as well as the Cominform. It is the same:
Be sure that the Malays, who wanted
it always proceeds according to plan.
to be loyal to us, watched what was
The charge against the Government is
going on and, when they saw that there
that they must or should have known this
H.L. 40 D 19

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
351
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
352
[Viscount Swinton.]
be beaten up, how another had to flee.
would be the Communist plan and
the country for fear of his life, and how
pattern, and that the Communists had
these hooligans came down and browbeat
ample arms and organisation to fight with
everybody and finally burnt up the local
if it came to fighting. The Government
Transport House, the headquarters of a
should have rounded up the arms and
decent trade union in the docks at
dissolved the organisation at the very
Singapore.
first blush of trouble. In fact, what has
Nor, unless terrorism is rooted out, can
been tardily done in 1948 ought to have
you get that co-operation and joint work-
been done in 1945. It would have been
ing which is so necessary between the
much easier then. Our friends would
employers and the trade unions. Here
have been rallied to us. The Malays
again the Awbery-Dalley Report is per-
hate these terrorists. As the noble Lord
fectly plain about the matter. I must
said. 20,000 Malays have joined the
say I was glad that the Minister said
police. The majority of the Chinese. I
to-day how well the European community
agrec, are not Communists. It is said
had done. It was a pleasant change from
that the Communists are only a minority.
the sort of stuff that some of his col-
Of course they are. Communists are
leagues hand out over the week-ends.
always only a minority, but that does not
When you read the Awbery-Dalley
prevent them, if they get power and if
Report you will find that the great
ihey are not resisted with energy, from
majority of the British employers have
getting control of the majority whom
done very well. Indeed, it is pointed
they can terrorise and browbeat and.
out that it is not very creditable to the
wherever necessary, shoot down. Many
Government that the employers set the
lives would have been saved, and more
pace in giving better wages and better
lives which will still be sacrificed might
conditions and that the Government lag
have been saved, if action had been
far behind. That is said in the Report.
taken, and the greatest dollar carning
This is the point 1 am making about
country in the British Commonwealth
would now be peaceful and prosperous.
the importance of getting rid of terrorism
if we are to have this co-operation. The
Ministers are not slow to boast that
Report says that when the employers
they have rediscovered the British
who wanted to do collective bargaining
Empire. Whether, if they have re-
tried to bargain with these unions,
discovered it, they have done so in order
they found that they were up
to liquidate it or in order to develop it
against men of straw, who were
seems to be a matter still under discus-
taking their orders from the "power
sion in the Cabinet. Why did they not
behind the throne" and who, whenever
discover what was happening in Malaya?
they made an agreement, entirely failed
Of course it is right to encourage the
to carry it out. I am all for decent trade
good, sound trade unions. I knew the
unions, but do not let the noble Earl,
value of them in West Africa. I even
in delivering his lecture to us, say that
knew them in the old days long before.
the setting up of sound trade unions—
when I was Colonial Secretary. I know
which is what we all want—is the soft
the good work which wise and great trade
answer which turns away the wrath of
union leaders have given in all quarters
Communism. It does not. Nothing
to young and inexperienced trade unions.
turns away the wrath of Communism
to build them up by what are sound
with its tommy guns, except other people
methods. But that is not an answer to
who can shoot the terrorists down. That
Communist terrorism and revolution.
is the plain truth about it.
Indeed, I go further, and say that these
In conclusion I want to make two
sound trade unions cannot function unless
revolution and terrorism are rooted out.
suggestions to the Government. They
My Lords, read this Awbery Report when
were rather tentatively made by my noble
you get the chance. You will see in one
friend, Lord Mancroft, and I want to
of the appendices (I think it is No. 7)
endorse both. The noble Earl did not
a description of what happened. They
really reply to either of them in his
say it is almost impossible for an ordinary
interesting and agreeable speech. The
English trade union to understand that
first is in the matter of finance. I hope
these things could happen—how the vice-
the Government are not going to be petty
president of a decent trade union could
and niggling in their financial dealings
HL.40 D 20

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
353
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
354
with Malaya. It is not only that the
of it is in gift, one quarter is in loan. Do
Government have a very peculiar respon-
not let us be ungenerous to the greatest
sibility in this matter through their lack
dollar producer in the British Empire
of prescience and their delayed action.
when we remember that.
A great deal of the expenditure which is
I would add one other point. The
incurred to-day would have been
noble Earl has spoken rightly of the
avoided if the Government had acted
development in social services, in housing
more vigorously and sooner. But here is
and in health—and certainly those things
a great common interest, a great imperial
are very necessary—which he hopes will
partnership. Malaya is one of the
take place there. But apparently Malaya
Empire's great resources, the greatest
is going to pay for it. But if a charge
dollar producer in the whole Empire. I
is to be placed on Malaya for repairing
believe I am right in saying that its
the devastation of the war (a far greater
exports collect more in dollars to-day
one, apparently, than is to be put upon
than the whole of the exports of this
Burma, a country that has not shown us
country put together. It is a colossal
much gratitude) and for the restoration of
asset and a great partnership asset. The
the plantations, great and small (and do
noble Earl has said that we are going
not forget, whether it is tin or rubber, it
to spend money in developing the
is not a case of these businesses being
Empire. I do not grudge that at all;
owned by great capitalists; a great deal of
but, for heaven's sake, do let us spend
the production is in the hands of the
the money where we shall get a return.
smallest men), it will be a very heavy
Surely, if there are millions to be spent
burden indeed. The noble Earl was rather
—I am not against the groundnuts pro-
vague about it, and I am not sure who is
ject; I think it may come to fruition in
to pay for the campaign which is being
the fullness of time, and I hope it will—
carried on to-day, and for the troops we
the wisest place to go and spend your
have set out there. But if this burden
money is where you know you are going
is put on Malaya, Malaya will not be
to get a return, where there are vast
able to put in hand these schemes for
resources only waiting to be reinstated
social reform, for health services and
and for which there is a ready market.
other plans. whether they are for the
Do not let us forget the generosity of
betterment materially, morally or physi-
Malaya to this country before the war,
cally of the people. It will, in fact, be
through the Sultans, the States and the
placing far too heavy a burden on these
Colony. In the four years I was Secre-
loyal people.
tary of State for the Colonies (and my
I come now to the other point which
noble friend, Lord Harlech had the same
I wish to make. It concerns the powers—
experience when he followed me) year by
or the lack of powers—residing in the right
year, and often more frequently than
honourable gentleman, a good friend of
that, these generous contributions came
all of us, who I think bears the title of
in. I remember that quite unexpectedly
Commissioner-General. What I want to
one morning the Sultan of Johore came
know is this: Is there one man with real
into my room and said. " We have not
authority? May I draw once again on
been doing too badly and we want to get
my own West African experience? I
forward with the defences. Here is half-
a-million." It was just like that, across
was sent out there as a projection of my
the table; and that was not the first con-
colleagues in the Cabinet. First there were
tribution that Johore had made. When
Governors there—and I must say that
we are parcelling out how much is to be
they have something to govern—the Com-
by grant and how much is to be by
mander-in-Chief, the Ministry of Food
amortised loan, let us remember the
and the Ministry of Supply, all of whom
generosity of our friends in the days be-
were concerned. Much the same sort of
fore the war, and let us remember what
situation exists in Singapore to-day.
we owe to them both for what they are
There must be quick decision and quick
and for that, alas, we have left undone
action. Who is able to take that quick
in their country. If I may take a
decision and direct, prompt action? I
parallel, which surely is not an unreason-
do not believe that anyone is now. First.
able one, let us take the American Aid
policy is settled—apparently there is no
which has been so generously extended to
dispute about that. As I have said more
us and to Europe to-day. Three quarters
than once in this House, policy issues in
H.L. 40 D 21

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
355
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
356
[Viscount Swinton.]
happy, not internally happy—in particu
action; and when we are confronted with
lar one section of that Service which, in
a situation such as faces us in Malaya
this relationship. happens to be very
to-day there must be one man on the
important: I refer to the police. Let it
spot who has authority. I do not care
suffice for me to say that when you intro-
what is his title. What I do care about
duce into an existing force (and, may I
is the matter of his powers. He must
say, a force which came out with the
have authority to give directives on policy
greatest honour of all Government
and the power to see that those directives
Departments in Malaya when Malaya
are carried out in action.
fell) a large number of officers from
another place, officers who are new to
4.24 p.m.
the police, it is clear that tension must
LoRD MILVERTON: My Lords, per-
arise. Matters such as the allocation of
haps I should begin by saying that my
appointments and so forth must be
reason and excuse for intervening in this
handled with the greatest tact and with
debate is that I spent the best twenty-one
the greatest regard for the human per-
years of my life in Malaya. I also spent
sonnel on whom we must depend. After
four years in Borneo. I have also to
all, the morale of the force will depend
declare a financial interest in the situa-
on our success in dealing with that. I
tion in Malaya, because I am a Malayan
think it is unnecessary for me to say
pensioner, and am therefore deeply in-
more on that subject.
terested in the future of the country. I
have adopted a Latin motto for the occa-
To go back to what I regard as the
sion—Quicquid delirant reges plectuntur
first of the major mistakes in Malaya, in
Achivi, which perhaps, being a classical
my time there it was indeed the Golden
scholar, I may be allowed to translate as:
Chersonese. I went there at the time of
"Whatever mess the Colonial Office
the beginning of the great rubber and
make of Malaya, I am one of the people
tin booms. The country was developing
who will pay for it."
at a terrific pace, because the introduc-
tion of British justice had meant that
Those of us who sit on these Benches
every man could be sure of being able
believe in facing the future, but in con-
to hold his own. And the country had
nection with Malaya I would urge that
unlimited wealth of different kinds
if we do not face the facts of the present
awaiting exploitation. So exploitation
there will be no future to face. I have
was the order of the day—unlimited
noticed a slight tendency to blame the
exploitation. We had not the necessary
present Government, in particular. for
labour available on the spot. Scores of
various things. I should like to make my
thousands of Chinese came from China.
own position quite clear at the start. I
Thousands of Indians came from India.
regard the present situation in Malaya,
Jaffna Tamils came from Ceylon to start
which has perhaps been mishandled (I
the offices: and later on, Javanese
will deal with that later). as arising far
labourers from the Netherlands Indies.
away in the past. I think that the history
The Malays took very little part in this.
of Malaya in this century is one of four
They sat bewildered amidst these
or five major policy errors, for which
immense developments.
there is no Party in this State which
In those days—they have progressed a
would not have to accept responsibility.
little since—they were essentially a con-
I propose briefly to mention what I think
servative race, a race of sportsmen, great
those errors are, then to mention some-
sportsmen, and great gentlemen with a
thing about the present situation in
strong distaste for regular work. They
Malaya, and finally to say—if I may have
have since then progressed considerably.
the temerity to do so—what I think ought
but we have in the situation to-day part of
to be done.
the Nemesis of what we did then. We
Before going into that, however, there
never thought what problems we were piling
is one thing which I should like to say.
up for that country when we flooded it
though obviously it is not a matter that
with foreigners. There is an example of
I can pursue in detail, and it would not
the opposite kind of mistake in the same
be in the public interest to do so. But,
area of the world, in Sarawak. In Sara-
in addition to other things in Malaya, we
wak, which is also a potentially rich coun-
have there a service which is not itself
try, preciselv the reverse was done. The
H.L. 40 D 22

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
357
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
358
Brooke family, according to their own
conscious of the fact that without our
lights, did a great work in Sarawak, and
presence there they would be submerged
they believed that the best thing they could
politically by the Chinese, just as to-day
do for the people of Sarawak was to pre-
they are excluded from the commerce
vent any Asiatic or European capital
of their own country by the Chinese. We
coming in, so as to prevent any exploita-
should realise the fact that the Chinese
tion. Therefore, they tried to make a sort
will not, if they can help it, allow the
of political Whipsnade of Dyaks and
Malays a chance in commerce in their
natives of that country. Of course, that
own country. That is a situation which
has brought problems of its own almost as
sooner or later we have to face. As has
difficult to deal with to-day as are those
been pointed out by the noble Earl, this
of the opposite policy in Malaya. Obvi-
is obviously not a nationalist movement,
ously, we cannoi keep a people like that
because the people who are causing the
without ultimately leaving them helpless
trouble are a matter of about 5,000
when the impact of modern conditions
illiterate young men. If I may say so
comes, as come it must.
with respect, I was unable to find the
satisfaction of the Minister of State in
Another political mistake which was
the fact that these 5,000 young men had
made in Malaya, though of a different
not succeeded in upsetting the govern-
kind, was the agreement on the subject
ment of Malaya. As an ex-Malayan
of the Singapore base, when the advice of
Government servant, it left me with a
the noble Viscount, Lord Trenchard, was
blush of shame to think that it should
not taken, and that of Lord Beatty was.
ever have been possible that such a
Lord Trenchard pleaded that Singapore
situation could be contemplated.
should be handed over to the R.A.F. to
defend, but he did not win the day. If
In dealing with the Chinese in Malaya.
he had, that in itself might have altered
one has to remember that although per-
the face of history.
haps half of them—it may be more or
less: there is a census now in progress—
The next major mistake, which has
were born in China, they are not in any
been referred to already and I need only
sense united. There are those who have
mention it, is that of the famous new
Malay Union Constitution, which the
been there for many generations and are
now Malayan. If they read the Chinese
present Government endeavoured to in-
classics, they probably read them in their
troduce. The only blame which attaches
English translation, and their language is
to the present Government, if I may be
so arrogant as to say this, is that they
English or Malay. Others who have been
ought to have known better than to have
there for a generation or two are much
taken that policy from their predecessors.
closer to China, and there is a small
group of young Chinese who aim at
I think we are on the high road towards
making another big mistake, in the
power and wish to dominate Malaya; but
niggardly treatment of war damage
they have nothing to do with the Com-
claims. As this has been mentioned
munist group which is endeavouring to
already, I need only refer to it. I was
obtain the same end by violent means.
in Malaya after the first war at the time
As I have said, this movement does not
when the Government behaved with
spring either from nationalism or race.
great generosity, and it would be a pity
Many of these young men have only
if what I might call the "Treasury
left elementary school. And may I say.
mind" should be allowed to dominate
in passing, that the Chinese elementary
a situation like this, where the com-
schools in Malaya, as everybody knows,
munity and an appreciation of human
have for a generation at least been centres
values are far more important than the
for the teaching of Communism. That is
number of noughts on the end of
well known in Malaya, and I presume it
millions.
is well known in London. These young
I should like to say one or two words
men, with their appalling ignorance, have
about the present situation in Malaya.
had no education since, except what they
As your Lordships know, out of every
have received in the Communist doctrine
eight people in Malaya, roughly four are
in their jungle hide-outs. They believe
Malay, three Chinese and one Indian.
firmly that they won the war and,
Although the Malays vaunt steady pro-
according to their own code, they think
gress in self-government, they are fully
that they are entitled to the loot which is
H.L. 40 D 23

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
359
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
360
[Lord Milverton.]
as there is any Government in China of
the reward of victory. That is probably
that nature, so long will you have this
all there is in their aim and object. It is,
trouble reproduced among the Chinese in
of course, easy to say that the Military
Malaya.
Administration should have seized these
One should always remember, too, that
arms and should have held certain Com-
the Kuomintang. now the respectable
munist leaders, but, in extenuation of the
Government of China, was in my day
Military Administration, one has to
the proscribed society. And when Sun
remember that at the beginning they had
Yat Sen and his friends came to power
not access to the best advice which the
in Southern China, largely put there by
Government formerly had. The Malay
money which had been subscribed to
civil servants who had specialised in the
them by Chinese millionaires from
knowledge of these things had been
Malaya, the first thing that the aspiring
scattered, and many of the advisers of the
Chinese politician thought was of Malaya
Military Administration were new to
as China irridenta. That is a situation
Malaya and knew as little about the
which will arise again. It should never
country as the people they were
be forgotten that it is not solely Com-
attempting to advise.
munism with which we have to deal; we
I deplore the way in which the word
shall always have the difficulty of that
"banishment" has been used in this
Chinese problem. As yet we have no
country. After all, nobody has ever been
indication of what the answer is. That
banished from Malaya. All that the
is why it is so urgent that there should
Malayan Government have done, even in
be a definite policy now declared, so that
the bad days when I was serving there
the Malays will know where they are in
and the Government did these things
their own country for the future. I be-
without question, is to exercise the right
lieve it is now the policy that all immigra-
which every civilised country in the world
tion should cease. That is a very desirable
exercises—the right to deport from their
thing. But we must also recollect that
midst any undesirable political or
when immigration has ceased—if it has
criminal foreigners who happen to be
ceased to-day—the rate of increase of the
there. That is a power which I feel the
Chinese in Malaya is such that within
Government of Malaya did not exercise
ten years the Malays will again be out-
sufficiently, but apparently under the new
numbered in their own country. One of
Constitution previously introduced they
the things which should occupy the
would have found it difficult to use it at
major attention of the Government is.
all because the Constitution extended
surely, the saving of the large number of
immunity from banishment to everybody
Malay babies in the rural districts. who
in the Peninsula, and paralysed the only
now die for lack of proper attention. I
way of dealing with this large number of
would urge upon the Government that
Chinese who have always presented the
there should be a tremendous concentra-
chief security problem in Malaya.
tion on training Malays for trade, for
I wish, in passing. to say a word about
technical jobs, and in dealing with the
health services. I do not mean only for
education. I do not like to think that
the towns, which have been amply dealt
the academic enthusiasts who went out
with in the past, but for the villages and
from this country will be listened to, and
the cantons of that country.
that we shall sacrifice the future of
Malaya and have universal English in
If your Lordships will bear with me a
order to make the whole country a forc-
few more minutes. I would like to say
ing ground for students of Raffles
(and I suppose. in fairness. I ought to
College and, incidentally, provide a whole
say it) what I think should be done. We
number of recruits for the Communists
are all agreed that the first thing should
with whom we are trying to deal. One
be to concentrate wholeheartedly on
has to remember, as has been said several
crushing this Communist terrorism. In
times this afternoon. that the Communist
doing so. I think we should at the same
group is very small. and could be—and
time settle quite definitely what will be
no doubt will be—almost exterminated.
the terms of future Malayan citizenship.
I use the word " almost" advisedly, be-
I suggest that we should leave the Con-
cause one has to remember that, so long
stitution alone until we have dealt with
as there is Communism in China, so long
this Communist menace. Let us have
H.T.. 40 D 24

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
-361
Malaya
10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
362
no more tampering with that, whateyer
I suggest that there is ample work for
may be its defects. Coming now to the
the Commissioner-General; and for good-
Administration—on which I feel I am
ness sake let us call him a Governor-
qualified to speak: Is the Administration
General, and make him really responsible.
of Malaya at present geared for
I gather—I made particular inquiry some
efficiency? I should return an emphatic
time ago—that he has no power to give
negative to that question. There are too
executive orders to the Governors. Then
many Governors; the country is over-
what do those words "co-ordinating
governed; and, as has been said by the
policy and administration " mean? I really
noble Viscount, Lord Swinton, it has no'
do not know; in the circumstances they
head. Take the Borneo side. There is a
can have no practical meaning at all. I
Governor of North Borneo, to which has
suggest that in circumstances like this.
been added Labuan. There is a Governor
if immediate and quick action is required.
of Sarawak, who is now also the High
as has already been said, it is necessary
Commissioner—at whatever it is called
really to make the Governor-General a
—of Brunei. What is needed in those
Governor-General.
countries to-day is young, vigorous.
Your Lordships will have gathered.
picked, able men; and if such men are
from what I have said, that I regard a
to be obtained it is rating the office too
good deal of the present trouble in
highly to call him a Governor. I sug-
Malaya as due to weak government. I
gest that it would be far better to make
think I have some experience of what
it a Lieutenant-Governorship, or even a
both weak and strong government means.
lower rank than that.
It would serve no purpose to try here to
Passing over to Singapore, one finds an
disintegrate what are the several shares
island twenty-seven by fourteen miles; it
of the contributory partners to the diffi-
has a municipality which is practically
culties in Malaya, the British Military
independent, and which runs all its own
Administration, the local Civil Adminis-
services. There is a Harbour Board,
tration and Whitehall. But the fact is
which is also independent. and there is
that there has been a weakness some-
also a Navy which runs itself. What.
where, and flaws which prevent quick
then, in heaven's name, is there left for
decisions and definite action. That seems
the Governor to govern? There are only
to me to be certain. A picked officer
a few Chinese and Malay villages scat-
has been sent as High Commissioner of
tered over that island. and to have a
the Malayan Federation, and a man of
Governor for them really does not make
influence and proved ability is appointed
sense to anybody who knows that coun-
Commissioner-General. I do plead that
try. Then you have the High Commis-
these two men should be given a com-
sioner for the Malayan Federation, a big
pletely free hand to clear up this mess.
and responsible post. And above them
I had meant to say something about
all—at least, I suppose it is above them
the question of the Trade Union Report.
all—there is the Commissioner-General.
but it has already been dealt with, and
I took the trouble to find out what are
the noble Viscount, Lord Swinton, read
the functions of the Commissioner-
extracts from it. Having seen the situa-
General. It is said that he is responsible
tion truly, and reported it truly, the com-
for the co-ordination of administration
pilers of the Report give us, in the
and policy in relation to Federation of
recommendations at the end, the same
Malaya, Singapore, North Borneo,
old platitudes. Labour can have no exer-
Sarawak and 'Brunei. He is also respon-
cisable rights in a situation of terrorism
sible to the Foreign Office for duties
such as exists in Malaya even to-day.
which were formerly done by the special
Surely, times of peace are the time when
Commissioner. I do not know what sort
the liberty of the subject and the rights
of political chameleon this is. I sup-
of labour are properly attended to. We
pose he has to keep one eye on Mr.
have our own experience that in time
Bevin, and the other on Mr. Creech
of war, even in England. we readily give
Jones. I have never met a chameleon but
up those liberties for the sake of dealing
I never want to meet a cross-eyed one.
with the emergency. I do suggest that.
In passing, I would say that I deplore
until the emergency has been cleared up
the tendency to-day for Colonial affairs
in Malaya, it is no time to talk of liberty
of the subject, rights of labour or any
to be dominated by the Foreign Office.
H.L. 40 D 25

=== Page 518 === (confidence 1.00)
363
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
[Lord Milverton.]
ment have not, at the moment, the con-
of the other rights to which we attach so
fidence of the country. That confidence
much importance.
has to be built up. The bulk of the
Chinese are by nature loyal and law-
I notice that a good deal is said at the
abiding. They will respond as quickly as
end of that Report about nationalism
any other people to strong and purpose-
and self-government. All the " buckets-
ful government. If we wish to win the
ful" of platitudes poured on the present
best of the Chinese, and if we wish to
conflagration in Malaya will not put it
keep the loyalty of the Malays, we must
out—platitudes have no reputation as
provide that strong government which is
fire-extinguishers. Nor, if I may say so.
so badly needed.
will all the cloud-capped policies which
we like to dream of at other times. This
I naturally feel some personal emotion
is not the time to deal with those.
over that country because, as I say, I
spent so long there. We who served in
There is one other matter I should
Malaya feel as Kipling felt about India:
like to mention, and that is that I think
"I have caten your bread and salt,
the Colonial Office are suffering from
I have drunk your water and wine;
political astigmatism. There seems to
The deaths ye died I have watched beside.
be a great obsession to-day with Africa,
And the lives ye led were mine.
but should we not beware lest, while we
Was there aught that I did not share
In trouble or toil or ease—
are growing ground-nuts in East Africa.
One joy, or woe that I did not know?
we are oblivious of the fact that we are
Dear hearts across the seas."
sowing ill-will and possibly insurrection
Those of us who served in Malaya lost
in Asia? Should we not consider that
our hearts and left them in that country.
possibly the future of Africa itself, the
We are, naturally, very anxious that the
future of Western Europe and the future
British Government should not leave its
of our own country is being settled all
honour there.
this time in Malaya? One of the first
things that Pandit Nehru said in a public
4.56 p.m.
speech when he got back to India was
VISCOUNT
MARCHWOOD:My
that he thought there was far too much
Lords, the House has listened with the
concentration here on Western Europe.
greatest interest to the noble Lord, Lord
If you added Africa to that—if I may use
Milverton, for his personal knowledge of
the common phrase of to-day—I could
Malaya is a very deep one. I knew him
not agree with him more. I believe that
there as Sir Arthur Richards, and he was
we may be losing not only Asia but the
known throughout Malaya as being a
whole of our own position while we con-
wise and far-seeing administrator. It is to
centrate on a country which is not the
be hoped that the debate to-day will
immediate emergency. In any case, when
convince the Government that any mis-
all is said and done, if the Malays find
placed leniency can only prolong and
aggravate the unfortunate situation in
later that we have sacrificed them, that
Malaya. In spite of many optimistic
we have sold their birthright for a mess
military assurances regarding the situation
of Chinese potage. what will be said of
in Malaya, lawlessness, murder and
us? And how long could we stay in
banditry still persist. So far, these
Malaya if we lost the confidence of the
assurances have generally been followed
Malays? Not for long. But they are
by fresh atrocities. Quite lately, a party
people who have always trusted us, and
of police were quite needlessly butchered
at present they still trust us.
in an open lorry that had no protection
I have said that what is needed is a
for its passage through cuttings and
clear lead as to what we mean to do; that a
gullies. During the past few days news
free hand should be given to the two men
has come through of two young planters
in charge; that we should concentrate,
being killed within twenty-four hours;
first of all, on crushing the Communist
and five more police were murdered yes-
and stopping immigration; that we should
terday. More reassuring than military
give the right sort of education to the
pronouncements, both to the people of
Malays; and last, and most important of
this country and to those we have failed
all, we should create the confidence that
to protect, would be a periodical state-
there is a determined Government in that
ment by the head of the police—for this is
country. I do suggest that the Govern-
essentially a police campaign.
H.L. 40 D 26

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
365
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
366
: We would like to hear that the police
innocent vegetable gardener, eating his
force is now at full strength, for respon-
rice at a village shop, and the next
sible people with local knowledge have
moment can vanish under the trees and
complained that the police should be con-
emerge a short distance away as an armed
siderably strengthened in numbers and in
bandit. The number of innocent people
power. If possible. European police
whom these miscreants have killed is
officers from Hong Kong. who know the
comparatively small, nearly all of them
Chinese and are experienced in dealing
being their fellow countrymen, adherents
with Chinese criminals. might be drafted
of the Kuomintang. followers of Chiang
to Malaya, in exchange for officers sent
Kai-shek. The terrorism cannot be
from Palestine who have no knowledge
called anti-British, for fewer than twenty-
of local races and languages. Communist
five European civilians have been
activities have long existed in Malaya.
killed. but it is, of course, the respon-
but they used to be controlled by the firm
sibility of the British protecting Power
and just use of the laws for the repatria-
to quash it and to keep it from reviving.
tion of undesirable aliens. They were
kept constantly under the closest super-
The problem of keeping it under can be
vision by the police. and were immedi-
solved only if the reason for its present
ately recommended for return to their
dimensions is fully appreciated. A
own country when their activities were
review of all that has happened must lead
found to be anti-social.
any unbiased mind to the disquieting
conclusion that, but for the mistaken and
The common opinion is that since the
supine policy of the Government, the
war the High Commissioner in Malaya
trouble might have been tackled far
has not had unrestricted authority to
earlier. It is an open secret that when
repatriate those guilty of political intrigue
Malaya was full of troops, the military
subversive of law and order. It is alleged
refused to arrest or repatriate Chinese.
that, a short time ago, out of one hun-
whom they regarded as brothers in arms.
dred alien agitators whose names the
though all these " allies " had done was
police submitted for repatriation, only
to sing the Internationale and raid
iwo were banished. Such unjustified and
defenceless Malay villages. When the late
misguided leniency must prolong the
High Commissioner succeeded the
murderous terrorism of extremists. with
military, he, too, refused to strengthen the
the result that Malaya has to go on facing
hands of the police force by repatriating
the heaviest expenditure, both of blood
Chinese criminals and Communists as
and of treasure. The Communist attempt
had always been done with undesirable
to overthrow the Government will be
criminals before the war. Even those
stamped out only provided the strongest
sentenced to death for murder were
measures are taken. The tide will doubt-
reprieved.
less ebb and flow for some time yet, and
it is to be hoped that any occasional lull
The pro-British leader of the largest
will not produce a false sense of security
Malay political Party reported to us that
or lead those responsible to think that
he had been approached by Chinese
the danger is past. The present situation
Communist leaders and asked if the
is the product of conditions following the
Malays would join a movement to drive
Japanese occupation, when Chinese fled
out the British. No heed was paid to
into the jungle for their lives and got
this warning. The unofficials. the
much of their food by descending in
planters and miners, made no secret of
armed bands on the Malay villages.
their fears but their warnings, too, com-
manded no attention. The British Gov-
To-day the number of the terrorists is
ernment seemed concerned only with un-
estimated at about 5.000. out of a
tried ideologies and political experiments.
population of 6,000,000.
It is not
There was to be a new Malaya, a demo-
a Malayan Nationalist Movement, for the
cratic Malaya, founded on a usurpation
terrorists are practically all foreign
of the rights of the Malays. the one race
Chinese. The movement would have
that had always been loyal to us, the
been quite insignificant and quickly sup-
race that to-day is providing 98 per cent.
pressed but for the fact that three-
of the local forces for the suppression of
quarters of a country the size of England
Chinese terrorism. The Malayan Union.
is covered with dense forest. In these
fortunately, was aborted, but even since
conditions the gangster can pose as an
the rights of the Malays have been
H.L. 40 D 27

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.99)
367
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
368
[Viscount Marchwood.]
unobserved among the Asiatic popula:
admitted and the Union exchanged for a
tion; only the Malays can speak the local
Federation, over-centralisation favours
language and detect anything suspicious
the gangster. Formerly, a State like
in Chinese movements. Far firmer
Johore could repatriate an undesirable
measures are needed to stir the respect-
or criminal alien in a few days, but now
able Chinese out of their fear and apathy
reference to Kualar Lumpur has been
and compel them to come forward with
delaying repatriation six or seven weeks.
the information many of them possess.
The action of the British Government
It has been a very ancient custom for the
in introducing trade unions so hurriedly
Chinese tradesman to pay money to
after the war was, in the opinion of all
criminal societies so that he will not be
acquainted with Malaya, a great error.
molested. There is little doubt that
The Chinese have had their own trade
to-day thousands of respectable Chinese
unions for many centuries, but those
are aiding terrorists by this selfish.
unions were closely watched by the
unsocial conduct. The practice must be
police.
Then came the British
stopped if terrorism is to stop, and the
trade union. This was exactly what the
record of the police shows that it can be
Chinese Communists wanted—societies
stopped if the Government are resolute.
approved by the British and recom-
Dato Onn Bin Ja'afar, the Prime
mended by the Government. They
Minister of Johore, is now in this coun-
quickly augmented separate trade unions
try. It is heartening to hear that the Sec-
by State unions, and State unions by a
retary of State has taken counsel with him
Federal union: a perfect channel for the
on the present state of affairs. Un-
diffusion of Communist propaganda and
doubtedly. Dato Onn is the most in-
Communist orders. Late, as in so many
fluential Malay in Peninsula politics, and
of their moves, the British Government
he is wholeheartedly pro-British. No one
were compelled to abolish both these
has a greater knowledge than he of the
State and Federal unions. but it is
dangerous position now existing in
impossible to overrate the harm done.
Malaya. I know that he considers that
The scathing indictment by a recent
at present the centralised Government are
High Commissioner in a letter to The
out of touch with the individual problems
Times on November 1. points out that the
of States that have been separate and dis-
prime cause of the trouble, from first to
tinct for centuries. In a recent broadcast,
last, was the refusal of Whitehall to face
the Commissioner-General reiterated the
facts and to trust the men on the spot.
policy of self-government for Malaya. Let
Banishment was approved only in respect
there be self-government, by all means, as
of criminals, but not for political or
soon as Malaya's races are ready for it;
criminal activities, and powers wielded
but if ever the British withdraw from
by successive High Commissioners with-
Malaya, then war will inevitably start
out reproach for many years were, in a
between Chinese and Malays. and the
time of special stress and danger, denied
country will run with blood from the
to Sir Edward Gent. In view of the letter
China Sea to the Malacca Straits. I will
to The Times, if the present terrorism is
close my remarks with the hope that the
to be suppressed the Secretary of State
selection of Sir Henry Gurney as High
should give an assurance that the High
Commissioner will prove a wise and
Commissioner of the Federation and the
popular appointment. His outstanding
Governor of Singapore will both be
record of distinguished and courageous
granted full freedom of action in all
service in the past points him out as
matters affecting the suppression of anti-
eminently suited for his present difficult
social activities, as was the case formerly.
task. A great many years of my life have
been spent in Malaya. I love the country.
Considerable resentment was felt that
I love the people. I hope that he will
young, semi-trained soldiers, with no
succeed in securing peace and prosperity
experience of tropical conditions, should
for both.
have been sent out to cope with the
situation. The British soldier should be
5.12 p.m.
used to protect towns and villages, leav-
THE LORD BISHOP OF TRURO: My
ing the Malay Regiment and the Malay
Lords, I am venturing to say a few words
Police to ferret terrorists out of the
in this debate, for this reason: Cornwall
jungle. Only the Malays can move
has very close associations with Malaya.
H.L. 40 D 20

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.99)
369
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
370
More than 20 per cent. of the world's tin
daring of these men and their com-
4s produced from the Malayan gravels.
manders, who are thoroughly jungle-
and wherever in the world you find tin
trained. No doubt these highly mobile
you are likely to find Cornishmen. We
and efficient bodies will be encouraged
have sent out some first-class men from
and developed. Full use will also be
Cornwall, born and brought up in that
made, we hope. of the excellent
county, and also men from other parts of
local police, who have long experience of
England who have been trained at our
jungle conditions. They should be in-
School of Mines at Camborne. We know
valuable in co-operation with the
them and we keep in touch with them.
Palestine Police who are now operating
We feel that we can rely on what they tell
in the country. Resolute as the Palestine
us. I have been recently comparing what
Police are and highly trained by hard
they have said in their letters with the
experience, they are by no means as yet
public utterances of Government officials.
used to the strange guerrilla warfare of
One of the best of these young Cornishmen
the jungle.
was captured by the Japanese in the late
That brings me to the very head of
war. After suffering a terrible ordeal of
my anxiety. Mr. Malcolm MacDonald
imprisonment, through which he behaved
promises vigorous action. I am sure that
magnificently, he returned to his work on
we can depend on vigorous action. But
a rubber plantation in Malaya. He was
will sufficient attention be paid to the
murdered on July 9 last. A letter came
advice of experienced and reliable people
home afterwards which he must have
on the spot? It is clear that in the past
posted that very day.
the Colonial Office have not paid suffi-
"Don't worry."
cient attention to the advice of people
on the spot, who have, of course, local
he wrote.
responsibility and real local knowledge.
"we have seen this trouble coming two years,
Take, for example, Government action
but the Government would not take strong
measures.'
in connection with Malaya's trade
unionism—so different in its origin from
And when to testimonies of this kind we
English trade unionism. The Govern-
add the weighty letter of Sir Shenton
ment appear to be very satisfied with the
Thomas. published in The Times of
results of their action, but such satisfac-
November 1. and the considerations
tion surely needs qualification. Was not
brought forward this afternoon by the
the Government action, in some respects.
noble Lord, Lord Mancroft, and others.
at all events, premature and not appro-
we cannot but feel disturbed by the com-
priate to local conditions? Let me read
placency with which His Majesty's
the following letter dated just over a year
Government seem to regard their past
ago—October 4, 1947—and written by
achievements in Malaya. We still feel
that gallant young Cornishman:
anxious about the future, in spite of the
"Life goes on here so and so,"
recent assurances, clear and vigorous as
they certainly are, of Mr. Malcolm
he writes.
MacDonald, and the additional assurances
"Labour seems to be jumping to conclu-
given us this afternoon by the noble Earl.
sions very quickly; all sorts of officials were
Lord Listowel, in his very informative
sent out from home to teach the locals trade
union rules, and all they have done is to
speech.
whip up trouble everywhere."
In his broadcast from Singapore, as
Those are the words of an honest and
reported in the Malay Mail of October 7.
public-spirited man on the spot. That
Mr. MacDonald included a most well-
was his impression, and it could not but
deserved tribute to the courage and stead-
be a discouragement to him in his
fastness of the European managers of
arduous and dangerous duties.
mines and plantations. I am glad that
The latest letter that I have seen from
this afternoon this House has joined in
Malaya came from a man in a responsible
paying that tribute. I should like to add
position in one of the mining areas. It
here a grateful tribute also to the re-
is dated October 24 of this year. He
markable achievements of the Ferret
says:
Forces commanded by Colonel Hannah
"The situation shows no sign of improve-
and other officers. The letters which
ment, and men of all races continue to be
come back to Cornwall speak with the
killed.
It seems curious that this sort
utmost appreciation of the skill and
of frontier warfare should have already
H.L. 40 D 29

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.99)
371
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
372
[The Lord Bishop of Truro.]
present Government in Malaya since they;
become the normal, scarcely-regarded way we
came into power. I am not going to
live. In this particular place, it is not having
recount all that again because to some
a good effect on the men or their families."
extent, my noble friend Lord Mancroft
No doubt the situation will rapidly im-
covered it. But I am surprised—and I
prove now that the Government are
wish to emphasise this point—that at the
taking energetic action, and it will im-
moment when, as the Government knew.
prove all the more rapidly if due atten-
there was unrest in Malaya (they knew
tion is given to the opinion and advice
that the Communists had already started
of the responsible, experienced, reliable
their games) they chose to approach the
men who have had practical experience
Sultans and to induce them, without any
on the spot. We have listened with the
chance of consulting their people, to agree
deepest attention to the noble Lord, Lord
to a new Constitution of an entirely
Milverton, in his most impressive speech
different character from anything that
this afternoon. That, if I may say so.
anyone could ever have conceived would
is the kind of advice to which we hope
be applicable to Malaya at that time.
the Government will listen. When the
I was also amazed to hear that
country is quiet and safe again, we must,
although the Government knew the Com-
I suppose, expect the cold war of the
munists were then in Malaya (they have
infiltration of fanatical agitators to con-
since been augmented from China),
tinue; and then, and now, and always,
although the Government knew they
we look to the Government to be not
possessed arms, and that those arms were
doctrinaire but realistic and practical, and
hidden in the country, they merely gave
to give the accumulated wisdom of
an order. And, ingenuously, with all
honourable and discerning men, long
respect, the noble Earl said that the order
experienced in Malayan affairs, the
was not obeyed, so the arms were still
weight it deserves.
there. I have some experience of
5.21 p.m.
administration in our Colonies, and I can
VISCOUNT ELIBANK: My Lords. I
conceive of nothing of that character hap-
think we are much indebted to Lord
pening, certainly under the old régime.
Mancroft for having initiated this debate
I suppose that this is the new régime.
this afternoon, and we also are much
under which you give an order and, if it
indebted, if I may say so in his presence,
is not obeyed, you do nothing. I believe
for his brilliant exposition of conditions
that the Government were very culpable.
in Malaya to-day. after a visit which he
Whether it was the Malayan Government
has so recently paid there, and for the
or this Government, or both, does not
views he expressed and the recommenda-
matter; a Government, or both Govern-
tions he made. If I may refer to another
ments, were very culpable at not having
speech made this afternoon—namely, the
taken proper measures then to seize those
speech by Lord Milverton, who as Sir
arms. By such action they could have
Arthur Richards saw many years of his
minimised very greatly the tragic situa-
official life in Malaya—I think it was one
tion in which the country finds itself
of the most instructive and informative
to-day. There was already a bad feeling
speeches that anyone could have made in
between the Chinese and the Malays in
this country, and I hope sincerely that
the country, due to certain happenings
although he is a supporter of His
during the war; but as a result of that
Majesty's Government—or because he is
situation the feeling of bitterness became
a supporter of His Majesty's Government
—they will pay very close attention to it.
worse, and immediately there were
I do not wish to delay the House too
massacres and murders between the two
long as it is getting late, and so I will not
races. As time went on, the Communists
make all the remarks which I had in-
became more active; feeling between the
tended to make on the subject of the
two races grew progressively worse. The
origin of the position in Malaya to-day.
consequence to-day is that the Chinese
I must express surprise, however, at
and the Malays are not in accord with
one thing. As I listened to the noble
each other, and they are in a position to
Earl. Lord Listowel, describing the
hinder the Malay Government in all the
reasons for the conditions which exist, he
actions they may wish to take to improve
seemed to cast—in fact he did cast—a
the conditions and the prosperity of
very thick veil over all the actions of the
Malaya.
H.L. 40 D 30

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.99)
.373
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
374
My Lords. we have to face up to that
times out of number for years past in
position. What are we going to do about
every place where these organisations
it? The noble Earl suggests that a time
have appeared and where difficulties of
may come when the Federation of Malaya
the nature which are now occurring in
may have added to it the Colony of
Malay have been encountered. So far
Singapore—when the whole country will
as the Communists are concerned, I
be federated. I believe that will only add
think violence must be met with violence
to the difficulties. The Chinese in Singa-
and murder punished with death. You
pore are in a very large majority, and
must be absolutely ruthless in ex-
if you add that number of Chinese from
terminating this external criminal element
Singapore to the General Federal Council
from the country.
of the country. you are only going to add
There are just two or three smaller
to the feelings of the Malays that they
points with which I wish to deal before
are outbidden by the Chinese. The noble
I sit down. I want to refer to the ques-
Earl spoke about giving votes, and so on.
tion of compensation for war damage. I
In this country we understand votes. In
do not propose to beat about the bush
Malaya they do not understand votes.
with regard to this matter, but to say.
They do not understand the free demo-
briefly, that there is a very strong feeling
cratic Constitution which the Govern-
indeed in Malaya upon it. The people
ment are trying to impose upon them
there consider that they have received a
overnight. All they understand is that.
very raw deal from the British Govern-
if this were to happen, the Chinese
ment. They cannot forget the unsatisfac-
politically would be in a far superior
tory way in which His Majesty's Govern-
position to the Malays, who own the
ment carried out its protective responsi-
country.
bilities. to Malaya during the war. In
I want to suggest to the Government
saying that, I am not, of course, aiming
that they take no action to hand over
a charge at the present Government. All
Singapore, and to ally Singapore with the
I say is that, generally speaking, that is
Malay States. until they have made a
the feeling in Malaya. The people feel
proper investigation of the whole subject.
also that the political affairs of their
I think there are a number of matters
country since the Japanese defeat and
there which require reinvestigating. Mr.
ejection have been handled by the British
Malcolm MacDonald did a splendid job
Government in a very unsatisfactory way.
of work when he went out there and
I want to bring this matter down to
managed to pull the chestnuts out of the
fire. He went out. fortunately. with a
plain figures, and I do not wish to take
fairly free hand and he re-created the
up too much of your Lordships' time in
Constitution. But we could not ask him
dealing with it. The total claim for com-
to do it again. We cannot ask him to
pensation for loss in the tin mines and
inquire into those matters. He has been
the rubber plantations is £170,000,000.
in this atmosphere of Communism, of
This figure. which I can assure your
suppression of Communism and all that
Lordships was not excessive in view of
sort of thing: and I venture to suggest
all the damage done, has. by the British
that the Government, as soon as they
Government's decision, been levelled
can, ought to send out a Commissioner.
down to £55,000,000, or 32 per cent. of
or a Royal Commissioner, or a Royal
the total sum claimed. How is it pro-
Commission, to inquire independently
posed to meet this compensation, levelled
into the best manner of reorganising. if
down by force majeure to £55,000,000?
necessary, or to such an extent as is
Let me tell your Lordships that
necessary, the whole constitutional posi-
£10,000,000 of it is to be provided by
tion in Malaya and in Singapore.
reparations from the Japanese, who
caused all the damage. £10,000,000 by
My Lords, there is only one other
His Majesty's Government, who failed to
matter on that point to which I wish to
prevent the damage and, in addition.
refer. and that is the question of de-
ordered a " scorched earth " policy, and,
portation. I was amazed again to hear
finally, £35,000,000 by Malaya, who
that deportation has not been exercised
suffered all the damage. That is
from the beginning. It must be carried
£55,000,000 in all. If this were not so
out ruthlessly and determinedly. That is
monstrously unfair to Malaya, it would
the only way in which these conditions
be almost laughable to think that any
can be met." That course has been used
H.L. 40 D 31

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
375
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
376
[Viscount Elibank.]
I have one final point. I want to ask
Government could put forward such pro-
the Government whether the rumour is
posals in all seriousness—and yet His
true that a considerable tonnage of the
Majesty's Government have done so with-
Malayan rubber crop has been sold to
out, apparently, appreciating what a
Russia, and that it is at present being
travesty of justice and reason it represents.
loaded up at Singapore and being trans-
So I am going to make the following
ported there. I am told that the quan-
proposals, shortly, in order not to prolong
tity is as much as 20,000 tons. I ask His
my speech. The first is, that the total
Majesty's Government if that is true. If
amount awarded—£55,000,000—is too
it is true, I wish to express the opinion
small, and should be considerably in-
that it is surely unwise at this time, when
creased. Secondly, the amount payable
our relationship with Russia is, to say
by Malaya should be considerably scaled
the least, strained, that we should be
down. Thirdly, the amount of Japanese
selling to her an article which is an
reparations should be largely increased—
essential war potential. This is the sort
the Japanese behaved brutally, cruelly
of thing which was done before the last
and barbarously the whole time they
war, when Hitler was contemplating
occ ed Malaya, extracting much tin
aggression and filling his warehouses. I
fron: . e tin mines and rubber from the
venture to suggest that this action should
plantations, and they should be made to
not be repeated now. I gave notice to
pay for it. Fourthly, the proportion pay-
the noble Earl that I was going to ask
able by His Majesty's Government should
that question, so perhaps he will be able
be considerably increased, because they.
to give the House a reply. I conclude
through lack of foresight, were responsible
by associating myself with those noble
for the unpreparedness of the defences at
Lords who have given praise to the
Singapore and in Malaya. That, may I
planters and miners and their womenfolk
say, applies to Governments of all kinds
for the way in which they have continued
and not merely to the Labour Govern-
to carry on their duties in these most diffi-
ment, though they in 1929 did nothing to
cult and troublesome times. They have
increase the Singapore defences.
shown the true British spirit. They have
kept the old flag flying, and no doubt
There is another point which I would
they will continue to do so, in spite of
like to make in that connection. The
everything.
price of rubber and tin in Malaya since
5.41 p.m.
the war have been forcibly kept down
LORD MOUNTEVANS: My Lords.
below world market prices, and conse-
I am one of those who welcome the dis-
quently, so much more has been lost to
cussion we have had this afternoon on
the country. But I do not propose to
pursue that subject any further, but just
Malaya and the troubles that beset the
Governor-General. the Administration.
to ask His Majesty's Government if they
and the authorities in Malaya. If the
will take that point into serious considera-
situation is firmly and properly handled.
tion, with a view to reviewing the position
we may yet be in time to overwhelm the
and bringing it more within the realms
subtle and powerful Communist-inspired
of fairness and reason. The question of
large-scale rebellion which is threatening
insurance is one that is giving consider-
the Malayan Federation and Singapore.
able concern in Malaya. So far, I am
As a cruiser captain on the China station.
glad to say, the insurance companies and
I saw the advance of Communism in
the underwriters appear likely to take a
China, where the shortage of food and
responsible view in regard to the claims
the shortage of housing were exploited.
which have arisen and which may still
just as they are being exploited by Com-
arise under existing policies. I do not
munists in Malaya to-day. I questioned
wish to emphasise this issue to-day, except
myself then as to how Communism could
to say that this is, obviously, a matter
be cured and prevented from spreading.
with which the Government must keep in
The answer was, by improving living con-
close touch in case the situation becomes
ditions, by good leadership—or example.
worse. For, in the absence of insurance
if you like—and by education, in which
protection, commercial operations become
in the Far East one must include hygiene.
difficult, if not impossible, thus leading
We had a medium-sized Navy on the
to further unrest and uncertainty and
China station then and the Commander-
playing into the hands of the Communists.
in-Chief, his officers and petty officers
H.L. 40 D 32

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.99)
.377
Mulaya
 10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
378
 inculcated into the Navy and the Marines
to climatic conditions, and particularly
that their behaviour in China made them
to those torrential rains. Lack of medical
the ambassadors for the country we were
supplies, pests like the mosquito, typhus
all so proud to serve. The Navy did their
ticks, sand flies, and the dreadful leeches,
utmost to support the Commander-in-
and countless other handicaps, added to
Chief, but in a country of more than
the problems that Malaya had to face
500,000,000 inhabitants our efforts could
while putting her house in order.
almost be likened to throwing a handful
Those noble Lords who read The
of sand into the fringe of the Gohi
Times as well as the Daily Herald must
Desert.
have found a good deal of satisfaction in
What we realised, in this rapidly chang-
the Report, quoted this afternoon, of
ing world, was that there was a good deal
the Mission sent out by the Secretary of
of short-sightedness in the Colonial
State for the Colonies to examine the
Administration in that area. China and
trade union situation and the labour
the Far East are countries for Europeans.
movement in Singapore and the Malayan
Federation.Besides mentioning the
provided that they are young men; but
at the time I was in China young men
shortages and lack of houses, the Report
adds to the causes of the troubles the lack
were not encouraged. With the excep-
of amenities, high prices, low wages, and
tion of a few well-established firms, where
amenities were on a high plane, young
the ferment of new political ideas. If
men were so discouraged that they were
your Lordships will first read this Report
almost suppressed.Just before the
and then turn to the address of Colonel
Spencer Chapman to the Royal
Second War, as I have stated in your
Geographical Society late in 1946, you
Lordships' House before. the Royal
will have a vivid insight into the almost
Naval Volunteer Reserve Auxiliary Patro!
hopeless situation with which Mr. Creech
were prevented from coming into
existence by the highest civil authority
Jones, the Colonial Secretary, and the
in Singapore. The result was that we
Malayan Government have been faced
lost a great deal of face, to use the
in the post-war period.
expression out there. And this minimum
There has been a good deal of
of foresight and maximum of pomp lost
destructive criticism this afternoon and
us so much face that it was only by the
a certain amount of constructive sugges-
best efforts in co-operation between the
tion, especially from the noble Lord,
three Armed Services and the Allies that
Lord Milverton. My view is that we
we were able to bring to an end the un-
must turn our attention towards obtain-
fortunate loss of Singapore and Malaya.
ing the best type of administrators.
police and civil servants of all grades.
In September, 1945. when Malaya was
We should ask your Lordships, from your
reoccupied by British Forces. there was
great store of knowledge, for helpful
a hiatus, an unavoidable gap before gov-
remarks as to the nature, size and quality
ernment could be established, and during
of the three arms of the service employed.
this period all the post-war chaos was
and to be employed, in Malaya. I do
being cleared up.This included the
not think it has been pointed out this
military clearing up. the re-establishment
afternoon that Sir Stafford Raffles (the
of communications, plantations, industries
irresistible Raffles) early in the last century
and business. Nearly all of this recon-
set himself, with indefatigable zeal. to
struction was badly hampered by lan-
improve the conditions of the natives of
guage questions and race problems.
Malaya. That is, indeed, what the British
Shortage of transports, of ships and
and Malayan Governments are endeav-
barges, of rice and other native. food
ouring to do to-day. The present
stuffs, and a deplorable shortage of houses
disturbances are almost entirely caused
following the Japanese invasion, made
by foreign-born Chinese thugs. bent on
the native population. both in Malaya
large-scale sabotage of law and order,
and Singapore, fruitful soil for Communist
and intent on wrecking the economic
propaganda on three different fronts.
recovery of Malaya. Whilst mentioning
Communism-inspired control delayed the
the forces now employed, your Lordships
turn-round of ships. There were, inevi-
must have been very glad to see that
tably, delays in demobilisation. There
Colonel R. N. Broome, a fluent Chinese
were discontent, disillusionment, post-
speaker of the Malayan Civil Service. is
war weariness and slackness. largely due
H.L. 40 E. 1

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
379
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
380.
[Lord Mountevans.]
it absolutely clear that you are going to:
now commanding the ferret force which
see the trouble through; to create, so to
a few days ago discovered the rebel
speak, the impression that the Govern-
training camp. It is to men like Colonel
ment, with their immense resources, are
Broome and Colonel Spencer Chapman
bound to be on the winning side.
that we may look to crush Communist
In addition, I would say that the
terrorism.
Government ought to be prepared for
5.52 p.m.
prolonged operations against these
THE EARL OF SCARBROUGH: My
bandits. A country which is three-
Lords, it is hardly surprising that this
quarters jungle or mountain must be ex-
debate on Malaya, introduced by my noble
ceedingly difficult to free from a pest of
friend Lord Mancroft, has raised a good
this kind. I hope, therefore, that the
deal of interest in your Lordships' House.
Government, who perhaps started late to
Those countries in South-East Asia under
deal with this trouble, will not be tempted
the general co-ordination (I think the
to give up too soon. I hope, too, that
proper word is) of the Commissioner-
the Government will pay attention to
General, are now the only large territories
what Lord Milverton has urged upon
in Asia for which Great Britain retains
them--namely, the necessity of giving a
direct responsibility. The interest of Par-
free hand to those in charge on the spot.
liament will, therefore, be concentrated
The second point I wish to press upon
upon them perhaps to a greater degree
the Government concerns the police. If
than has usually been the case with
the Government were taken by surprise
Colonial territories. I am sure the
by the effectiveness of the bandits, it was
general wish will be that the resources of
Great Britain—resources of every kind:
perhaps due—I do not know—to inade-
quate information about their prepara-
of personnel, culture perhaps, material
tions. It would seem, therefore, that the
and financial—shall be called in aid in
police were not adequately equipped to
full measure, so that the peoples of those
collect and furnish the authorities with
territories may have the chance of
information. I certainly would not seek
possessing the value of the British con-
to attribute blame in this matter in any
nection at its best. His Majesty's Govern-
quarter. It is only three years since the
ment will be mistaken if they rate lightly
country was liberated from Japanese
the interest which is likely to be taken in
the future of the people who live in those
occupation, and that is too short a time
in which to rebuild the police force to
territories.
full efficiency. However, I would urge
The speeches which have been made so
the Government to make quite sure that
far in this debate have been concerned, as
the resources allotted to the police are
is natural, with the present situation in
sufficient to maintain a service of infor-
the Malay Peninsular, caused, as I think
mation which will be effective in this
we all agree, by the outbreak of banditry.
difficult country. It is essential for the
instigated, and I have no doubt nourished.
Government to know what is going on
by Communist forces. I have no wish to
there.
repeat a great deal of what already has
The third point I wish to press on the
been said, but I would like to press upon
the Government three points. I feel it is
attention of the Government concerns the
important that His Majesty's Government
food supply. The noble Earl's remarks
should make very clear that they are
on this matter were, to some extent, re-
determined to eradicate this bandit
assuring, but I would like to ask him
menace. whatever exertions may be
whether he feels entirely satisfied that
needed to do it. I was. therefore, very
he will be able to keep Malaya well
glad to notice the emphasis placed upon
supplied with food. I should imagine
that by the noble Earl who spoke for the
that conditions in Burma make it
Government. I think he said: " We shall
unlikely that Malaya will draw pre-
go on to the liquidation of the last gang."
war supplies of rice from that country.
That is certainly a form of liquidation to
I would like to feel sure that that void
be preferred to the brand advocated by
will be filled satisfactorily. I need not
some leading members of the Govern-
point out to the noble Earl the impor-
ment. I do not doubt that in a situation
tance of this matter. Communists thrive
of this kind the first essential is to make
on a population which fears hunger. and
H.L. 40 E 2

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.99)
381
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
382
;I have little doubt that one of the tacti-
It requires also the building up of in-
cal objectives of all the Communist-
stitutions which will stand when the
inspired troubles in South-East Asia is
framework of the builders is removed.
the disruption of the food supply. The
May I briefly list some of the things which
present troubles are naturally our first
seem to me still to need building up in
preoccupation in regard to Malaya, but
Malaya? There is local government—
they should not prevent us from consider-
not necessarily, I would say, of the pattern
ing future policy. As I see it, we are in
familiar to us in this country, but rooted
a position to concentrate our many
in Malayan custom and tradition. There
resources, and our now considerable
is development of the primary industries.
experience, on future developments in
with the particular objective of increasing
those territories; in fact, they present us
the food supply. There is education,
with a considerable opportunity, and we
although I confess to sharing what I
ought to be clear what is to be done with
thought were the doubts of the noble
that opportunity.
Lord, Lord Milverton, about compulsory
The noble Earl who spoke for the
primary education in the English lan-
guage. I should feel rather doubtful
Government gave us a brief outline of
whether that was going to be a great
the policy which the Government have
in mind. I would like to make some com-
social advance. There is public health.
ments on what he said, and in making
There is a system of law and order, still
to be formally established; a general
them I am not unaware of the difference
between making speeches in the academic
respect for justice in its impartial adminis-
tration; and also, and certainly not least,
serenity of your Lordships' House, and
the difficult, anxious, sweating toil which
there is defence against any aggressor.
a decision of Parliament, or even an ill-
All those things still need to be built up
judged remark, may impose upon those
in Malaya. They will call for a degree of
understanding of Malayan conditions, cul-
who bear the burden of Government in
ture and tradition, and a degree of training
these territories. I think the noble Earl
said that the general line of policy was
of British officials which I hope (and hope
to improve material standards and to
with confidence) will not be stinted by
the Colonial Office. Those are the tasks
make a gradual advance towards self-
government. Certainly I do not quarrel
which confront the authorities in Malaya.
with those objectives. I was particularly
and which are demanded in the interests
glad to notice that he placed repeated
of the people of that land.
emphasis on the necessity for going slow
It would be a betrayal of those interests
over constitutional advance. I noticed
to thrust upon the people a form of self-
that he did that more than once. and
governmeni before they have a chance of
I welcome it very much. But it seems
carrying the burden, merely to avoid fac-
to me that there is a principle of policy in
ing up to an agitation. Let us be realistic
this matter which should be brought into
about this matter. A course of that kind
the foreground. The interests and the
may possibly—I would think probably—
welfare of the people of these lands
mean standing firmly against demands for
should be the first consideration of all,
too hasty constitutional advance. Such
and should take precedence, if necessary,
demands, I hope, in the rather peculiar
even over the advance towards self-gov-
conditions of Malaya, will not be able to
ernment. That principle should be the
whip up doubts about the genuineness of
factor which should regulate the pace
our ultimate intentions. With the wise.
of that advance. The chaos that was
patient, and sympathetic handling which
Burma, the slaughter and disruption of
can be expected of the present Commis-
life for millions of people which occurred
sioner-General, I hope that both major
last year on the border lands of India
communities in that land may be per-
and Pakistan, warn us that self-govern-
suaded to act as partners with the
ment, if ill applied or too hastily applied,
authorities in working on these imme-
can be a cruel boon to humble folk.
diate building tasks, feeling well assured
Self-government is not the only thing.
that their ultimate goal is not in doubt.
although we should be foolish not to
My remarks may seem to many of your
recognise that it is often the thing most
Lordships to be of an elementary
desired. But it is not the only thing
kind, but our recent experience in
which a State needs in this modern world.
Asia. the opportunity before us in
H.L. 40 F 1

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.99)
383
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
384
[The Earl of Scarbrough.]
vital thing. After all. the race, religion.
Malaya and. I fear I must add, the
habits of life, interests in life and occupa-
doubts raised by Ministerial utterances
tions of the Malay people and the
Chinese are absolutely different. They
in the last few weeks, seem to call for
an examination of the simple elements
both have their merits. The Chinese are
of our policy in Malaya.I sincerely
wonderful craftsmen; wonderful workers
in the factories. Seeing them cutting trees
hope that His Majesty's Government will
show by their actions that they do not
in a forest, one cannot but admire their
intend, either by negligence or through
vigour and their stamina. But the Malays
some reckless passion for the liquidation
are a peasant people. They understand
of the British Empire, to throw this land
their land, they love their land and it is
to wolves, but, on the contrary, that they
their country.
will spare no effort and spend some of
The next question I want to ask is:
our still large resources to make British
What steps are His Majesty's Government
connection with this part of Asia a credit
taking to limit further the immigration
to our name and a thing of value to its
into Malaya? I would rather see
inhabitants.
economic development slowed down than
6.6 p.m.
have further immigration to hasten
LORD HARLECH: My Lords, I think
economic production, if that would mean
this debate is more than justified by the
still further exercising the Malayan feel-
quality of many of the speeches we have
ing that they are to be swamped and
heard and, in particular, if I may say
then, on the basis of one man, one vote,
so. by the most remarkable speech of the
handed over to people who have only
noble Lord, Lord Milverton. I sincerely
recently come into Malaya. And let us
hope that not merely the actual words
watch what is happening in China. Quite
of his speech but the spirit underlying
frankly, I rather agree with the noble
it, and his very notable experience and
Lord, Lord Lindsay of Birker, who speaks
to us in this House about the Chinese
reputation throughout the British
Communist. I believe that Chinese Com-
Colonial Service, will be borne in mind
munism is a little different from Russian
in future. Many noble Lords have
Communism. But still it is a Chinese
spoken about the campaign against
form of Communism; and it is clear from
armed terrorism. Frankly, I am still
recent events that the area of China under
worried about Constitution-mongering in
Communist control, as compared with
Malaya. I think one of the greatest
that under Chiang Kai-Shek's control, is
shocks I ever had was when I read the
growing. The Civil War, from what the
Report of the McMichael Commission.
Generalissimo said, is likely to go on for
which was sent out by Colonel Oliver
five years. In that event, inevitably.
Stanley. I think that was one of the
the refugees will spill over; and unless
most deplorable things in the whole
the situation is very carefully watched
record of the Colonial Office, that
there will be further inroads of refugees
attempt to browbeat, at the point of a
and, possibly, of further agents of the
pistol, as it were, the various Malay
Communists who want to oust Chiang
States into accepting a Constitution con-
Kai-Shek in Malaya, where they will get
cocted in Whitehall, and saying that we
recruits to help. They look forward, as
would not recognise them unless they
many Chinese do, to the incorporation of
signed within so many hours. That was
the Malayan Peninsula into the Chinese
not the way to treat the people who
Republic: that is the avowed aim of
have been consistently loyal to us.
many of them.
especially since the treaty rights given to
us by the Malay Sultans were the sole
While, therefore, I want to see consti-
legal basis for our presence in Malaya.
tutional development, I feel that it is not
I would not like to see any step taken
an easy business. Anybody who has
flown over Singapore, or up and down
by the Colonial Office to hasten constitu-
the coast, will realise that. I flew from
tional development in Malaya, and par-
Singapore in a small aircraft, down the
ticularly federation between the Malay
coast and over Sumatra and Java; and
States—now called the Malayan Federa-
the number of sailing craft—Chinese
tion—and Singapore, unless it is perfectly
junks, and every kind of craft—putting in
clear that the Malayan people as a whole
everywhere was astonishing. There is, of
are quite happy about it. That is the
H.L. 40 F 2

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.99)
385
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Melaya
386
course, no such port there as Southamp-
to the Dutch and American agents, were
ton or Dover or the Port of London.
all for clean weeding—which meant ero-
where immigrants can be checked. And
sion. They had not begun to understand
that brings me to the further point, which
the scientific basis of tropical agriculture.
is equally vital, that there are " too many
The agricultural position was absolutely
cooks " in our Administration in Malaya.
deplorable, and I am glad to say that
I hope the Government will come to a
very soon afterwards they changed the
decision now to have one supreme
system. I was shocked by what I saw
authority in the Malayan region. I am
on that occasion, twenty years ago, by
sure all of us in this House would be
way of contrast between the British
delighted if the person appointed were
rubber industry, and the rubber industry
Mr. Malcolm MacDonald. Nobody could
of other nations.
be better. He has vast experience: people
I was shocked, also, by our agricultural
of all Parties like and admire him; and
department there. Food was a problem
wherever he has work to do he does a
and great efforts were made before the
fine job.
war, before Singapore fell, to get back
When I visited Malaya twenty years
to more food production, about which
nobody out there cared. The next five.
ago the whole area, including the Straits
ten or fifteen years is going to be a vital
Settlements, Borneo, Labuan, Christmas
time for food production everywhere. I
Island, and the whole of Malaya, was
am convinced that Sir John Boyd Orr
under one final authority. He was also
is absolutely right; and nowhere is that
Commander-in-Chief and, if he found it
problem of food production going to be
necessary to do so, to deal with a situa-
more serious than in Asia—in India, in
tion, he had power to call up the Navy.
China, and even in the Dutch East Indies.
Army and Air Force. I hope that that
which used to export such quantities of
position will be restored, and that there
food and where everything depends on
will not be in future the perpetual
high standards of scientific research. I
referring back to Whitehall through
am convinced that one of the first duties
different channels of communication, or
of the British Administration in Malaya
the continual demarcations and regimen-
is to go in for further intensive and ex-
tations and all the rest of it. That is
tensive production of food—of rice and
not the right procedure for getting a
other cereals, or any food the people can
policy decided, for right action or for
eat. It is no use our spending millions
good administration.
on a ground-nuts scheme so that we can
The other point I wish to make con-
have more margarine here, if we do not
cerns food. When I went to Malaya I
develop agriculture in these other places
also visited Ceylon and the Dutch East
which are not producing enough of the
Indies, and I found a remarkable contrast
necessities of life in the way of cereals
between them. In Malaya, and particu-
and basic foods. Elsewhere we find every-
larly in the Malay States and in Singa-
thing sacrificed to cocoa and imported
pore itself, I found absolutely first-class
flour from America. More countries
hospitals, first-class anti-malaria work—
could become self-supporting. Our
in fact a really good medical depart-
policy during the years ahead has got to
ment; as good as the one in Ceylon was
be far more constructive; otherwise we
bad. Then I found in Ceylon and in
shall not be doing our duty as trustees
the Dutch Java, some of the finest agri-
for these people for whom we are
cultural stations and some of the finest
responsible.
education, propaganda, and organisation
I hope we shall see how this confedera-
that I have seen anywhere in the world
tion works, but, frankly, at this stage I
—and I have visited most of the British
regret the Malayan Federation. When I
Empire. In Malaya, the agricultural de-
was there, these four Federated Malay
partment whose headquarters in the
States were demanding decentralisation,
Federated Malay States I visited was
demanding each to go back to its own
absolutely deplorable. Yet the country
local government powers and not having
was rich in tin—it was the largest supplier
so much "carcosa" as they had—and
in the world of tin—and in rubber. of
that was my view. I hope this attempt
which it was also the largest supplier.
at centralisation will not mean forcing
But those are not agricultural com-
on them artificially our form of
modities. The British agents. in contrast
Constitution. We think it is the best.
H.L. 40 F 3

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.99)
387
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
388
[Lord Harlech.]
the sale or export of rubber from Malaya;
It probably is the best, but let them and
this freedom from Government control.
not us be the judge of when the time is
only recently obtained, is highly prized
ripe for them to have a House of
by the rubber interests in Malaya. We
Commons on a universal popular
are not at all anxious to restore to them
franchise, and with Government responsi-
what has been a most irksome restric-
bility of that kind to the electors. The
tion. My second point is that this pur-
Malay people are sensible people, and I
chase on the part of Russia is not by
believe that they. rather than we by
any means disadvantageous to the
forcing them to act, should be the judge
United Kingdom, because the Russians
of when the time is ripe.
have paid partly, but not wholly, in
dollars. It has turned out to be one of
6.21 p.m.
the additional dollar resources of Malaya.
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: My Lords.
It is sometimes not realised what an
I regret having to ask the House to allow
extremely small proportion of the total
me to speak for a second time this after-
amount of rubber exported from Malaya
noon. I can assure your Lordships that
is going to Russia. The figure for this
what I shall say will be brief. I shall
year is only 18 per cent. of the total
not attempt to answer all the points that
rubber exports during the year, which
have been made. I should like to thank
shows what a very minute quantity is
noble Lords for their tributes to the work
goingin that direction.
of the Commissioner-General. When I
The noble Viscount also asked me
was out there, I remember distinctly the
whether we would consider sending out
impression that he had won the confi-
a Roval Commission to study the con-
dence and liking of the leaders of all the
stitutional position in Malaya. I think
different communities in Malaya. That.
that my reply to that has already been
in itself, was a remarkable achievement.
made: that we do not feel, and I am sure
I entirely agree that he has done a grand
that the House would agree
job, and he deserves well of this country.
VISCOUNT ELIBANK: If the noble
I should like now to pass on to some
Earl had listened to what I said, he would
points that were made by the noble Vis-
have understood that my suggestion was
count, Lord Elibank, who was good
a result of his stating that Singapore was
enough to give me notice of the points
to be federated or annexed, or whatever
he intended to raise, and whose remarks
you like to call it, to the Malay States.
will therefore receive rather a dispropor-
I said I was of opinion that before any-
tionate amount of attention in comparison
thing of that sort was done, a Royal Com-
with those of other noble Lords. I hope
mission should be sent out to Malaya to
that your Lordships will understand the
examine and investigate the whole ques-
reason. I think it is a little unfair to
tion, as I did not believe that Mr.
put quite the load of blame that has been
Malcolm MacDonald. however popular
put upon this Government for the policy
he is, should be asked to revise the Con-
of a Union of Malaya. This was a policy
stitution which he himself had arranged
which I think everyone agrees was con-
for the Government. That is my case.
ceived and had been adopted and
authorised by Colonel Stanley when he
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: I think
was Secretary of State for the Colonies.
that the noble Viscount will agree that if
It was inherited by the present Govern-
a further step is in suspense, then any-
ment, and it has proved to be what I
thing leading to it should be taken as in
think the lawyers call a damnosa
suspense.
hæreditas.
VIscOUNT SWINTON: I hope that the
The noble Viscount asked me to say
noble Earl will not take it that anyone
something about rubber, and he criti-
on this side of the House, with the excep-
cised the Government for allowing
tion of the noble Viscount, Lord Elibank.
the sale of Malayan rubber to Russia.
has any desire whatsoever to see a Royal
There are one or two things I ought to
Commission sent out.
point out in that regard. The first is
ViscoUNT ELIBANK: I am quite pre-
that those sales were made by com-
pared to make my own suggestions. I
mercial firms upon a business basis
am not a wholehearted supporter of the
mainly on forward contracts. As there
Opposition all the time. That is why I
is no longer any Government control over
sit in my place here.
H.L. 40 F 4

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.99)
389
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
390
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: The other
other Colonies which have suffered severe
question touched upon by the noble Vis-
war damage.
count, Lord Elibank, was one touched
Another important point raised by the
upon by a number of other speakers as
noble Viscount was one to which he
well—the extremely important question
alone, I think, referred. It is the question
of war damage compensation. Noble
of the insurance companies. I am glad
Lords who have addressed themselves to
he mentioned that, because I think the
this problem have expressed the view that
insurance companies have played the
the United Kingdom Government have
game extremely well. As he rightly says.
been less than generous in the contribu-
the possibility of carrying on business in
tion they have offered towards the pay-
Malaya depended on the willingness ofthe
ment of war damage compensation in
insurance companies to continue to cover
Malaya. The facts are these. We have
risks; and they have done this, and I
offered a free grant of £10,000,000 and.
think they have done it with considerable
in addition, we have promised an interest-
public spirit. The position is that, pro-
free loan not exceeding £35,000,000
vided the situation in Malaya does not
when the desire for such a loan is ex-
seriously deteriorate, riot and civil com-
pressed by the authorities out there. I
motion cover for people who have
do not myself feel that this is a niggardly
insured their property in Malaya will con-
or mean contribution, when we consider
tinue to be available, and claims will be
the extremely heavy burden which falls
settled as they have been before, with or
upon the United Kingdom taxpayer at
without admissions of liability on the part
this moment. The difficulty is that any-
of the companies. I think this must give
thing of this kind comes out of the pocket
considerable contidence to business in-
of the average Englishman. The com-
terests in Malaya that they can carry on
pensation scheme has been framed upon
without any serious risk of loss if their
an austerity basis. The original claims
property is damaged, and that they will
have had to be scaled down, as the noble
be covered if they themselves, or any of
Viscount pointed out, but that is owing
their relatives, are killed during these
to the limited resources both of Malaya
efforts of the bandits to terrorise the
and of the United Kingdom itself at the
population.
moment. Your Lordships are well aware
The noble Viscount, Lord Swinton.
that unrequited exports mean the loss of
referred to the great cost of the re-
other goods, such as foodstuffs and
establishment of law and order in Malaya
various materials which are so much
and suggested that we should make some
needed by the people at home.
contribution to help the Malayan
ViscoUNT BLIBANK: Could the
authorities.
The position is that the
noble Earl tell me why Japan is paying
Malayan Governments are at present con-
so little—only £10,000,000?
sidering how this extra expenditure is to
be met, and we in the United Kingdom
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: I have not
will of course give careful consideration
examined that point, but, of course, what-
to any representations that they may
ever amount of reparation has been
make. We have not yet received any
claimed from Japan must be related to
official views from Malaya on this sub-
the total reparation claims that have been
ject, but when the time comes, we will
made upon Japan. I imagine that that
certainly consider very carefully what
is how this particular figure was arrived
they have to say and also what has been
at. I think that this scheme represents
said by the noble Viscount on this sub-
a fair division among the various claims.
ject this afternoon.
It is related not only to rubber and tin.
I should like now to refer briefly to
but also to the loss of private chattels—
two points that were made by the noble
such things as household goods and furni-
Lord, Lord Milverton—I am afraid that
ture—which of course has hit some small
I cannot deal with any more. In the first
people very hard. Again, I would remind
place, he said there was some dissatis-
your Lordships that Malaya is not the
faction among the police. Of course,
only Colony which has had to put in a
it has been a difficult thing to introduce
claim for help in the form of a payment
police from Palestine into the existing
of war damage compensation from the
police force in Malaya, but I think every-
United Kingdom Treasury. The Malayan
one would agree that this exceptional step
claim has been related to claims from
HL. 405

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
391
Malaya
[LORDS]
Malaya
302
[The Earl of Listowel.]
I do not want an unnecessary number of
was justified by the emergency. We had
mandarins under him.
to reinforce very considerably, and at
very short notice, the strength of the
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: I entirely
police force in Malaya. The second point
appreciate the noble Viscount's point, but
is that promotion in the Malayan police
I want to stress one of the difficulties.
force is strictly on merit; no preference
which I think was mentioned by the noble
is given to anyone from any other quarter.
Lord, Lord Milverton—namely, that one
Furthermore, by reason of the sudden
man is responsible to two Departments.
expansion and the very large expansion
the Foreign Office and the Colonial
of the police force, there are more open-
Office. I do not see any way round that
ings for local recruits in the commis-
particular difficulty, because in respect of
sioned ranks than there have ever been
his work in external relations the Com-
before. I think when those facts are
missioner-General has to deal with the
considered it will be recognised that sub-
Foreign Office, while in respect of his
stantial justice is being done to local
work in co-ordinating internal matters, he
people in the police force, and that any
deals with the Colonial Office.
exceptional measures that we have had to
LorD ALTRINCHAM: But Ministers
take are due to circumstances over which
of State or Ministers Resident have
nobody has been able to exercise control.
always had that difficulty, and have
The noble Lord, Lord Milverton, like
always been able to surmount it.
a number of other noble Lords. com-
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: If any
plained about the over-government of
way can be found of surmounting it. I
British territories in South-East Asia. I
think everyone will agree that we do not
am quite certain that that way will be
want more high authorities than are
adopted.
absolutely necessary, and that an exces-
LorD HARLECH: I think most of
sive number is a waste. But I
the High Commissioners of the United
would point out that since the war there
Kingdom in the Dominions have on their
has been a reduction in the number of
staffs. working under them, somebody.
these high Government authorities. The
not only from the Dominions Office but
post of Special Commissioner for South-
also from the Foreign Office. Those staff
East Asia, which was filled for several
men are in constant communication with
years by the noble Lord, Lord Killearn.
their own Department. while the High
has been abolished and his functions
Commissioner deals with both offices. He
were taken over and combined with those
is appointed by the Dominions Office, but
of the Commissioner-General. Mr.
the system works perfectly well.
MacDonald. So we have not only been
carefully considering and watching this
THE EARL OF LISTOWEL: I must
question but we have taken steps to
thank the noble Earl. Lord Scarbrough.
prune away some of these " big-wigs." at
for his very helpful speech. He referred
the top if I may say so without appearing
to food. and I should like to say some-
in the least offensive.
thing, quite briefly, about the food posi-
Somebody has got to be responsible for
tion.
We appreciate the political
the external relations of the Malayans
importance, apart from the human
with the foreign territories in those parts.
importance, of maintaining the rations in
Those external relations are extremely
Malaya. The general supply position is
important and must be watched. The
as follows. Malaya draws most of its
difficulty is
supplies from Burma, with a small allo-
cation from Siam and minor supplies
VISCOUNT SWINTON: I am all for
from other sources. The quantities
the Commissioner-General, or whatever
allotted in 1948 were 393,000 tons, of
he is called, having very full powers in-
which 234,000 tons were from Burma and
deed. and exercising functions in regard
138,000 tons from Siam. Because of
to foreign relations and everything else.
political conditions in Burma to which
and being really a Minister of State there
the noble Earl referred, supplies from
in this emergency. I want one man who
that source have become uncertain, and
will control everybody. whether he be-
it is expected that there will be a sub-
longs to the Foreign Office or the
stantial deficit this year in the total
Ministry of Food or anywhere else: but
quantities allotted from Burma.
H.L. 40 F6

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.99)
393
Malaya
[10 NOVEMBER 1948]
Malaya
394
In this connection, arrangements have
bringing additional land under cultivation
been made to obtain alternative supplies
by means of drainage and irrigation
from Italy in order to make up for this
works. When these schemes are brought
shortage. So I think the noble Lord
to fruition, the amount of rice grown in
may rest assured that, so far as the
Malaya should be substantially increased.
present situation is concerned, we are
My Lords, this has been an extremely
able to hold the food position in Malay;
remarkable and useful debate. The speech
but, as he will be the first to recognise.
made by the noble Lord, Lord Milverton.
we cannot look very far into the future,
was one which we were all delighted to
and I do not want to encourage any
hear. He contributed to the debate from
hopes that might be disappointed in days
a long first-hand experience of Malaya,
to come. We must get along as best we
can in the extraordinarily difficult world
and his knowledge of administration and
of political conditions in that territory is
conditions in regard to rice. I was par-
ticularly grateful to the noble Earl for
especially valuable. But Lord Milver-
pointing out that the unfortunate
ton's speech was only one of a number of
Government spokesman in a debate of
thoughful and constructive contributions.
this kind has to keep his audience in
I can assure all noble Lords who have
Malaya in mind and be extremely care-
spoken that what they have said will be
ful not to say anything which will make
very carefully considered by my right
things more difficult for the people on
honourable friend the Secretary of State
the spot.
and by the Government. We wish to
profit to as great an extent as we possibly
May I reply to two points made by the
can from the advice which we have re-
noble Lord, Lord Harlech? It was very
ceived in the course of this debate.
valuable to hear a speech this afternoon
from the last Colonial Office Minister
6.44 p.m.
before myself to visit Malaya. The noble
LoRD MANCROFT: My Lords, I
Lord was there in the 'twenties, and I went
agree with the noble Earl, Lord Listowel.
there last year. It is certainly valuable
that we have had a long, interesting and
to have a contribution from somebody
helpful debate. As the noble Viscount.
who has not only had an administrative
Lord Swinton, has already replied in some
responsibility there but has been on the
detail to the first speech of the noble
spot. So far as immigration is concerned.
Earl, it would be impertinent on my part
it has been stopped, and there is no inten-
to address further remarks to your Lord-
tion of resuming it. We are, of course,
ships. I wish, however, just to say that
fully aware of the political importance of
I agree with the noble Éarl—if he did
immigration. We are also just as anxious
not think that I did. then I can only
as the noble Lord to see that Malaya pro-
assume that I must have spoken very
duces as much rice as possible for her own
indistincly—that no constitutional change
consumption. The tonnage produced in
should take place in the Malayan Penin-
1947-48 has already shown an increase
sula except with the approval of the
compared with that for 1946. In 1946 it
people there. That, I think. is a funda-
was 257,000 tons and in 1947 it was
mentally important point. The debate
340,000 tons. We are expecting that rate
will have done good if only it serves to
of increase to be maintained this year.
impress on the people of Malaya how
When I was in the Northern States, where
anxiously we in this country are watching
most of the rice is grown, I was immensely
their welfare and hope that their troubles
impressed by the desire of the Sultans to
will soon be over, and if it demonstrates
grow as much rice as possible, while, on
to His Majesty's Government how closely
the administrative side, the agricultural
we are studying their conduct of Malayan
experts were doing all they could to im-
affairs. With those few words, I beg leave
prove the production of rice by giving
to withdraw my Motion.
advice about modern methods, and so on.
Motion for Papers, by leave, with-
Model stations were being run by the
drawn.
Government to encourage rice growers to
make the best use of their land. Very
House adjourned at a quarter
big schemes have been drawn up for
before seven o'clock.
H.L. 40 F 7
