894.00 Japan, Political Affairs., April 7, 1949 (File 1711)
ID: 894.00-1711   Pages: 3   OCR: Mistral OCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.00-japan-political-affairs-7
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum • UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT

TO : U - Mr. Webb
DATE: April 7, 1949
FROM : E - Mr. Labouisse
SUBJECT: Operation of Japanese Rehabilitation Program by the Economic Cooperation Administration.

I. The Problem

1. The FY 1950 Japanese GARIOA and rehabilitation appropriation requests will be submitted to the Congress shortly. When this is done, it may be anticipated that questions will arise as to whether responsibility for the expenditure of these funds should be transferred from the Army Department to the Economic Cooperation Agency. The Department of State, the Department of National Defense, and the ECA should, therefore, reach agreement as soon as possible concerning the desirability and practicability of such a transfer.

II. Recommendation

2. It is recommended that you send the attached letter to Secretary Royall with a copy going to Mr. Hoffman.

III. Discussion

3. ECA Take-Over in Washington. Effective transfer to ECA of responsibility for the expenditure of funds appropriated for Japanese rehabilitation would require that the following functions now performed by the Army Department in Washington be performed instead by the ECA in Washington:

(a) final determination of the amounts and types of rehabilitation goods to be bought for Japan out of funds appropriated for this purpose by the Congress, and final determination of the sources from which and the prices at which these goods should be procured;

(b) participation in the formulation of U.S. Governmental policies relating to Japanese rehabilitation;

(c) participation in U.S. Governmental determination of the amount of funds to be requested of the Congress for Japanese rehabilitation during the fiscal years following FY 1950.

Effective ECA performance of the functions listed above with respect to the request for and expenditure of rehabilitation funds would also require transfer to ECA of these same Washington functions in regard to Japanese GARIOA funds. In the case of Germany, the

assignment

CONFIDENTIAL

894.00-TA/4-749

=== Page 2 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 2 -

assignment to ECA of responsibility for the expenditure of rehabilitation funds, and to the Army Department of responsibility for the expenditure of GARIOA funds, did not work well.

If the Army Department were to refuse to transfer these functions entirely to ECA, and were instead to insist on continuing to participate substantially in their execution together with ECA, an effective transfer of responsibility for the Japanese rehabilitation program to ECA would not be possible. An ineffective transfer would be undesirable, in that it would simply multiply further the number of Washington agencies having responsibilities relative to Japanese rehabilitation.

It is believed an effective ECA assumption of the Washington functions with respect to all funds appropriated for Japanese import procurement might result in a more effective discharge of these functions than has hitherto been obtained from the Army Department. It seems likely that the experience, organization, and personnel of the ECA in Washington would be more suited than those of the Army Department to supervising the expenditure of U.S. funds for Japanese self-support.

It should also be pointed out that many of the decisions that must be reached in Washington in connection with the Japanese rehabilitation program will affect, and will be affected by, decisions made here concerning U.S. foreign aid programs in Europe and the Far East. A greater coordination between these various decisions would therefore seem desirable. In view of ECA's responsibility for U.S. foreign aid programs, such greater coordination might be associated with an effective transfer of Washington functions relative to the expenditure of funds appropriated for Japanese import procurement to the ECA.

4. ECA Representation in Japan. In Germany, the ECA mission has been without the responsibilities that characterize ECA missions in other countries, these responsibilities being largely assumed by General Clay. The ECA's ability to perform its authorized functions with respect to German rehabilitation has been adversely affected by this fact. An effective ECA take-over in the case of Japan would require a more satisfactory arrangement with respect to ECA representation in Japan. Such an arrangement might be one under which:

(a) General MacArthur would be appointed by the U.S. Government as ECA representative in Japan, assuming this duty concurrently with his duties as Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers and as Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Forces in the Far East;

(b) Mr. Hoffman.

CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 3 === (confidence 1.00)
CONFIDENTIAL
- 3 -

(b) Mr. Hoffman would then designate an ECA official whom General MacArthur would appoint as his Deputy for ECA matters, and this Deputy would recruit a staff to perform those duties of SCAP's Economic and Scientific Section which relate to economic rehabilitation and stabilization. The Economic and Scientific Section would continue, however, to be responsible for the execution of economic policies in such other fields as reform and reparations.

If SCAP did not agree to such an arrangement, it is doubtful whether an ECA take-over would result in sufficient advantages to justify this step. If SCAP did agree to such an arrangement, however, and if the take-over were then effected, it is believed that the resultant qualitative improvement in the economic advice given to SCAP at the highest levels would have beneficial results that might permit some reduction in the number of SCAP economic personnel at the working level. For ECA would probably be able to staff its mission with persons of greater competence and prestige than have so far been willing to work in Japan under Army Department auspices. Japan's attainment of self-support might thus be facilitated as a consequence of these persons' work in Japan.

5. Relation of ECA Take-Over to the Present Regime of Control. An ECA take-over, as defined in paragraphs 3 and 4, above, would involve no change in the present regime of control for Japan and so would not require international approval.

(a) The ECA's assumption of certain Washington functions currently being discharged by the Army Department would represent merely a reallocation within the U.S. Government of that Government's present executive functions with respect to Japan. The nature of these functions would remain unchanged, as would the policy perogatives of the State Department within the U.S. Government and the obligations of that Government as a whole to the Far Eastern Commission.

(b) The ECA Deputy Representative in Japan referred to in paragraph 4 would not have any authority except that which he derived from SCAP; his presence in Japan would thus not alter SCAP's authority in the eyes of the Japanese. Nor would this Deputy's presence relieve SCAP of any of his obligations under established U.S. or FEC policies; it would be incumbent on SCAP to ensure that the ECA take-over did not impair the effectiveness of his regular staff sections in carrying out internationally approved economic policies in regard to such matters as reform and reparations.

CFD:ED:WGJones:mw
4/7/49
CONFIDENTIAL
