894.628 Animal Husbandry., Japan, Fisheries. Sponges. Sponge Fisheries., January 30, 1945 - November 7, 1946 (File 1542), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.628-1542-1   Pages: 570   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.628-animal-husbandry-japan-9/894.628%20Animal%20Husbandry.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Fisheries.%20Sponges.%20Sponge%20Fisheries.%2C%20January%2030%2C%201945%20-%20November%207%2C%201946%201542-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
JS-37
CONFIDENTIAE
242
Copy No.
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
ADMINISTRATION OF PRODUCTION PROGRAMS IN JAPAN
Special attention is called to the fact that this document
was substantially completed prior to the surrender of Japan.
Persons using this document are cautioned that its recom-
mendations were written prior to the acceptance of the
Potsdam Declaration and the Instrument of Surrender. All
recommendations must, accordingly, be critically examined
in the light of current U.S. palicy.
CONFIDENTIAL
July 1945
16. 041 Cover

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PARTI
Introduction and Summary of Recommendations
Page
I. Introduction
1
II. Summary of Recommendations
2
A. Methods of exercising economic controls
2
B. Extent of application of economic controls
2
C. Recommendation concerning the utilization of
Japanese control agencies and regulations
2
D. Recommendations concerning the utilization of
Japanese personnel
444
E. Recommendations concerning reporting
F. Recuamendation concerning sabotage
G. Suggestions concerning Military Government's
organization for the administration of pro-
duction programs
5
PART II
Descriptive Analysis of Japan's Wartime
Economic Controls
I. Introduction
5
II. Controls at the National Level
7
A. Basic authority for economic controls
7
B. Government Ministries and Bureaus exercising
economic controls
8
C.
Quasi-governmental Organizations controlling
industry
12
1. Control Societies and Control Associations
12
2. Munitions Companies
16
3. National Policy Companies
18
4. Eidan or Corporations
19
III. Controls at the Regional Level
23
IV. Controls at the Prefectural and Municipal Lovel
25
CONFIDENTIAL
16 041 p1 of 144 bu cos

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Table of Contents - continued
PART III
RECOEMENDATIONS
Page
I. Military Government's Concarn in the Adminis-
tration of Production Programs
28
II. The General Situation which will confront Military
Government in Japan
29
III. Methods for Exercising Economic Controls
30
A. Priorities
30
B. Allocations
31
C. Credits
31
IV. Recommendations Concerning the Utilisation of
Japanese Control Agencies and Control Regula-
tions.
32
A. General Recommendations
33
Utilization of Japanese Control Agencies at
the National Level
34
C.
Utilization of Japanese Control Agencies at
the Regional and Local Levels
34
V. Recommendations Concerning the Utilization of
Japanese Personnel
36
VI. Eocommendations Concerning the Protection of
Records, Plants, etc.
37
VII. Recommendations Concerning Reporting
37
VIII. Recommendation Concerning Sabotage and the
Enforcoment of Military Government's Control
39
IX. Suggestions Concerning Military Government's
Organization for the Administration of Produo-
tion Programs
39
A. Central Organization
39
B. Regional and Prefectural Organization
41
16 041 p2 bu

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.98)
-iii-
Table of concants - continued
APPENDICES
Page
I. Administration Regions of Japan - 1945
42
II. National Mobilization Law of Japan
43
III.
Major Provisions of the Munitions Company Act
of October 28, 1943
57
IV. Activities of the Munitions Superintendence
Bureau of the Ministry of Munitions
60
V. Major Industries Organization Ordinance
64
VI.
Imperial Ordinance Covering Amendments to the
Essential Industries Organization Law - 1945
78
VII. Transfer of Administrative Authority Law
81
VIII. Matal Industry Control Society
82
IX. Control Regulations Concerning Control Associa-
tion of Hokkai Warehouse Enterprises
85
X. Electric Engineering Control Society in Japan
89
XI. Electric Machine Control Society
91
XII. Abstract of Regulations Governing the Establish-
96
ment of a Warehouse Control Society
XIII. Control of Electrical Bngineering Industries
98
XIV.
Abstract of Regulations on Lumber and Charcoal
Production
100
XV. Pit Wood Control Association
101
IVI. Regulations of the Woolen Goods Control Socioty
102
IVII. The Control Regulations of the Japan Bicycle
107
Control Society
XVIII. Essential Materials Supervision Corporation Law
.111
IIX. Regulations of Small Scale Businəss Control
113
Society
16.041 p3 bu

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
- 1v -
Table of Contents - continued
APPENDICES - continued
Pace
XX. Middle and Small Scale Industries
117
XXI. Export Associations
121
XXII. Regulations Governing Special Responsibilities in
Keeping Safe the Miscellaneous Articles for Export,
a of March 5, 1942
122
XXIII. The Commodity Link Syaten in Japan
124
XXIV. The Development of the Commodity Link System
in Japan
126
XXv. The Mational Policy Companies of Japan - 1943
128

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
CONPIDENTIAL
PARTI
INTRODUCT ION AND SUMMARY OF RECOMLAENDATIONS
I. Introduction
It is the purpose of this guide to recommand the general
administrative and control measures to be applied to carry out
the production programs with which M. G. will be concerned in
Japan. The term "Administration of Production Programs" a
used in this guide is defined as covering all activities involved
in the processing of supplies from raw materials to the finished
product, but doss not include such portions of specific industries
as normally do not utilize industrial processes such as agriculture
and fisheries with respect to which activities special guides have
been prepared. The objectivas of these production programs have
been outlined in Part III, Section 1 below. Background infarmation
desoriptive of the Japanese controls for the administration of
their war-time economy has been presented in Part II. Illustrative
material has been provided in the Appendices. The recommendations
presented summarily below have been set forth in more detail with
the reasons therefor in Part III. More specific recommendations
with respect to particular industries may in some cases be found
in the respective industry guides.
In drawing up the recommendations it was assuned that the
occupation of Japan would occur on a progressive basis until all
or a major portion of the main islands would be brought under
Military Government. Moreovar it was assumed that the occupation
would continue long enough to give rise to the necessity for M.G.
to control the export and import of essential commodities for
various purposes. Furthermare, as this guide is concerned with
the administration of production controls, therefore it is con-
sidered necessary to assume that M.G. may have to concern itself
with progranming and allocating the flow of all vital materials
needed to produce the categories of priority goods set forth in
Part III, Section 1. Should the occupation of Japan be only
partial or of short duration or should other conditions or policy
directives determine that M.G. control of production be more
limited than is here implied, modifications or utilization of
portions of the recommendations which follow will readily suggest
themselves to those using the guide in their planning. In addition
it should be pointed cut that this guide should be used in con-
junction with the respective industry guides which may have more
detailed recommendations as to the control of such industries as
it may be decided M.G. shall be directly concerned with in
accordance with policy directives. This guide, in short, aims
to set the over-all adninistration framework within which M.G.
can operate, either in a supervisory capacity or directly, such
production controls as policy directives and operational con-
ditions and problems shall determine in the future.
CONFIDENTIAL
16 041 p5 bu

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
II. Summary of Recommendations
A. Methods for exercising economic controls
1. To assure the maintenance of priority production
schedules with which M.G. is concerned, as set
forth in Part III, Section 1, M.G. should estab-
lish supervisory administrative controls over
the utilisation and movement of required raw and
semi-finished materials in short supply by a co-
ordinated application of the following methods:
a. Establishment of priorities.
b. Granting of allocations in accordance with
priorities to specific plants, or organisations
of producers on a territorial basis.
c. Extension of credits where needed to enter-
prises or groups of producers receiving allooated
priority materials.
B. Extent of application of economic controls
As a general rule production of items not on M.G.'s
priority production programs should be allowed without allocations
providing:
a. Such production doos not require utilisation of
facilities banned by M.G. because of their war-
potential character.
b. Does not require the utilisation of materials
in short supply.
c. Doss not impede the movement of priority raw
materials and end-products.
The Japanese officials should, however, be required to
report on such production in crder that surplus looal production
of particular commodities in particular areas may be made avail-
able, insofar as transportation facilities permit, to deficit areas.
C. Recommendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
control agencies and regulations.
1. At the outset of the occupation M.G. should main-
tain in force Japanese war-time control regulations
relating to control of industry and allocations
fuels, power, raw materials, semi-finished goods,
items for maintenance and repair subject to sub-
sequent directives as to amendments, abrogation, etc.
16 041 p8 bu

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3-
2. Likewise, M.G. at the outset should maintain
or re-establish local governmental agencies
responsible for the administration and enforce-
ment of such laws and regulations as are main-
tained in force and require officials and em-
ployees of such agencies to continue with or
return to their functions.
3. The principles governing the subsequent utili-
zation, abrogation, or modification of existing
Japanese controls should have two major objectives:
a. The re-direction of the flow of materials from
war production into civilian production channels
and the production of equipment for the restora-
tion and maintenance of essential tranaportation
and public utilities. War-time restrictions on
the utilisation of materials for such purposes
and to meet M.G. priority production programs
should be relaxed.
b. In consonance with long-range U.S. poliey ob-
jectives, M.G. should exercise its controls
and reorganize or abolish Japanese agencies
in order to re-direct Japanese war-time economy
into a free enterprise, competitive economy in
which small and particularly medium-sized enter-
prises are unstifled by excessive government
controls or by cartels and combines.
4. The Munitions Ministry should be abolished and much
of its war-time functions and controls as are needed
to attain M.G. objectives should be traneferred back
to the old line pre-war ministries.
5.
The 400 odd designated munitions companies should
in principle be initially closed down particularly
those producing military items, and only those most
essential and most readily convertible to lines of
production in which M.G. is interested be allowed
subsequently to operate under direct or indirect
suporvision.
6. M.G. should directly concern itself with the assets,
property and facilities of National Policy Companies
and all Eidan or publio corporations. Insofar as
M.G. finds it useful to continue the operation of any
of the facilities of government managed or owned
agencies and monopolies or utilize their organisation
and material M.G. may do so or order Japanese officials
to do so under its supervision.
16 048 p7 bu

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
7. Because of the extent to which Japan has de-
contralized its controls operationally on a
regional basis it is recommended that M.G. sub-
ordinate prefectural controls o regional con-
trols. For this purposs it is recommended that
the Regional Superintendents-General Offices
be rotained and utilized to gather information
on the requirement and supply situation in each
region and to allocate out regional allotments
of raw materials made by M.G.'s central pro-
duction control agency.
8.
It is recommended that regionsl advisory councils
be formed representative equally of amall, medium
and large sized producers of the area to advise
M.G. and Japanese officials.
It is recommended that the Control Societies and
Control Associations be abolished and their assets
and property be sequestered by M.G. to be dis-
posed of in accordance with subsequent directives.
The companies, organizations, and federations
which made up these organizations should be author-
ized to reorganize along pre-war types of commercial
and industrial organizations, known as Kumiai on a
voluntary, cooperative, and democratically organized
basis.
D. Reccmmendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
personnel. Japanese personnel should be as fully
utilized as possible to carry out M.G. directives and
policies. Individuals, however, whose names appear
on purge lists, because their past records and acti-
vities make them unfit to hold responsible positions,
should not be appointed to such positions.
E. It is recommended that Japanese officials and such
governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, private
organizations and individuals as may be designated by
M.G. be required to submit initial reports and there-
after current reports covering the points set forth under
Part III, Section 7 in order to assist M.G. in drawing
up its production programs and determining priorities
and allocations.
F. It is recommended that M.G. place on an area or region as
a whole, as well as on designated Japanese officials
the responsibility for fulfilling production programs
and observing allocations and priority regulations. In
the event that sabotage is wide-spread in a particular
area it is recommended that its allotment of raw materials,
power, consumer goods, etc., be cut down until such sabotage
or misuse of materials ceases, or is reduced to isolated
cases which can be handled by direct and specific discip-
linary measures.
18 041 P8 bu

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
G. Suggestions concerning Military Government's organi-
sation for the administration of production programs.
It is suggested that M.G. set up at central bead-
quartera a production control agency to include a
planning and control unit and functional units to
carry out the functions set forth in Part III,
Section 9 A; and branch agencies in each of the
regions occupied with sub-branches in each occupied
prefecture to carry out the functions outlined in
Part III, 9 B.
PART II
DESCRIPT IVE ANALYS IS OF JAPAN'S WART IME ECONOMIC CONTROLS
I. Introduction
The descriptive analysis of Japan's wartime economic con-
trols which is set forth below relates to the situation which ob-
tained in June of 1945 and is based upon the latest information
available. Undoubtedly there will be additional changes in the
details of the administrative structure of these controls as the
war goes on, such as have occurred frequently in the past. How-
ever, the basic underlying pattern will probably remain the same
as existed at that time. The major trend at that time was the
decontralization of national controls and their concentration in
the eight administrative regions into which the country has been
divided. The purpose of course was to prepare Japan against an
invasion by increasing the economic self-sufficiency and.adminis-
trative autonomy of each region in the event of the breakdown of
centralized administration at the national level which the disruption
of transportation and communications would entail.
As in the case of Germany prior to occupation, information
is lacking to disclose accurately and in detail just how Japan
administered its production programs, allocated raw materials,
established priorities, let and sub-let contracts, prepared re-
ports on inventories, supplies of raw materials, semi-finished
goods, etc. Presumably such information will becoms available
to M.G. after occupation insofar as the archives and records of
the varicus Ministries, the Munitions Companies, the Eidan, the
national and rogional offices of the Control Associations, the
regional suporintendents-generals Offices in each of the eight
regions and the prefectural and metropolitan administrative offices
have not been destroyed. Access to such records will aid M.G.
materially in establishing ita own production controls. It is
pertinent to note that the Government has stipulated that all
accounts and records of Control Socisties and Aasociations and
Munitions Companies, presumebly relating to fiscal matters,
materials and production should run according to the Government's
fiscal year namsly from April 1 to March 30, thus establishing
10.041 p9 bu

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
a completely unified nstional system of accounting in harmony
with national production scheduling and the allocation of raw
materials on a quarterly basis in which the first quarter runs
from April through June.
Even with access to such detailed information it will not
be easy to grasp fully an understanding of how the Japanese military,
bureaucrats, business and industrial leaders have administered their
production programs. The layer upon layer of economic controls set
up by decree, law, ordinance and a plethora of subsequent administra-
tive regulations since the passage of the General Mobilisation Law of
1938 and the Extraordinary War Measures Bill of June 1945, accompanied
by frequant shifts in the administrative structure nationally and
locally are difficult to disentangle in order to discover exactly
where the lines of administrative authority lie as between the various
Ministries and their bureaus, the quasi-governmental agencies such
as the Control Societies and the Munitions Companies, the local
government bureaus and private commercial and industrial enterprises.
It was not until November of 1943, when the Munitions Ministry was
established, that the Japanese goverment succeeded in creating a
degree of centralized allocating of raw materials and the scheduling
of production programs which might be compared with the work of the
U.S. War Production Board. Even after that date, the old-line
ministries and agencies continued to guard jealously and to exercise
to a degree their former control functions causing confusion and in-
efficioncy, and endless red tape. The contimuing struggle of the
big industrialists and Zaibatsu to retain control, working chiefly
through the control societies, various adviaary councils and by
holding positions in the government itself at Ministerial level,
against the bureaucrats on the one band and the military on the
other have resulted in a series of compromises which limit the full
application of the government's innumerable minute regulations.
These struggles have led to frequent administration reorganizations
and even cabinet changas. A study of the myriad of decrees, or-
dinances, regulations and ministerial orders can give only a
general picture of how the Japanese actuelly controlled their
production programs. Japan is ruled more by men than by law and
the bureaucrats' network of regulations and red-tape can be readily
cut through at will by the military, financial and industrial
oligarchs. Nevertheless a study of the development and inter-
relation of the existing machanisms and agencies of econogic control
is necessary as a background upon which to base recommendations
for their suppression or utilization with or without modification
by M.G. to establish its controls over production. The rest of this
section will be devoted to a generalized description of the pre-
vailing mechanisms and agencies of control which obtained in Juns
1945. More detailed studies of how the controls were actually
applied in specific industries will be found in the respective
indus ry Guides.
16 041 p10 bu

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
II. Controls at the National Level
A. Basic authority for economic controls*
The basic authority for the exercise of wartime economic
controls by the government until June 1945 found its origin in the
General National Mobilization Act of 1938 and as subsequently revised
(see Appendix II) together with the myriad of imperial decrees,
ordinances and ministerial orders and regulations which derive from
and implement that act. The controls were highly centralized until
June of 1943 when a trend toward decentralization arose as it be-
came increasingly aoparent that the war was going against Japan and
that the home-islands would be subject to increasing attack from
the air and possibly even invasion. At that time Japan was divided
into nine administrative regions (reduced to eight in Feb. 1945)
with the President of each region directly responsible to the
Premier. The Progressive loss of Guam, Saipan, the Philippines,
Iwo Jima and finally Okinawa speeded up the decentralization trend
culminating in the passage on June 12, 1945 by an extraordinary
session of the Diet of an Extraordinary War Measures Bill which
gives the government power to nullify or revise provisions of the
General Mobilization Act and all subsequent legislation and to
issue new orders and regulations without check by the Diet. Through
the passage of this Bill, the Diet surrendered to the Government
virtually all of its power and presumably will not sit again until
after the war.
Within the Bill, "Government" was defined as including not
only the Ministries of the Cabinet but also the Offices of the
Superintendents - General, newly created two days before the pas-
sage of the Bill to head up the administration of the eight rogions
(see Appendix I and Chart). Thus, the basis was provided for
complete regional administrative autonomy over economic controls
in the event any region was completely cut off from contact with
the central regime following invasion.
The broad scope of the Bill is stated in Article 1 (Tokyo
broadcast in English), "...the Government, when urgently necessary,
will take steps for the proper measures regardless of the stipulations
in other laws and regulations concerning: (1) increase of military
and war requirement production; (2) maintenance and improvement of
transportation and communications; (3) strengthening of defense and
maintenance of order; (4) adjustment of the taxation system; (5)
measures for war damages; (6) other matters necessary for compen-
sating and manifesting the fighting strength specified by Imperial
ordinances."
*For a brisf account of history of pre-war to wartime econonio
controls, see Civil Affairs Handbook - Japan - Sec. 8 A -
Industry, p. 89.
16 041 p11 bu

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
According to a Domei broadcast in English "The Govern-
ment gazetted, under the date of June 22, the Extraordinary
War Measures Act and also its enforcement decree, to be effective
from June 23. According to the enforcement decree, this act
will be enforced not only in Japan proper but also in Chosen
and Taiwan. Those vested with the powers of issuing orders and
making other dispositions under this act include Cabinet Minis-
ters, Regional Superintendents General, and the Governors General
of Chosen and Taiwan." The fields of authority covered by the
Act as given in the same broadcast are as follows: "(1) Coamence-
ment and abolition of business, management of business, and punish-
ment of those engaged in business; (2) organizations of business
bodies, cooperation between various business bodies, and control
of employment and expropriation of business bodies; (3) adjustment
of labor suoplies--including electricity motive power and funds,
possession and disposition of supplies and control of employment
and expropriation of supolies and motive power; (4) construction,
expansion, repairing, maintenance, exchange, consolidation, dis-
position, control, employment, and expropriation of land, buildings,
trees, equipment, and other facilities; (5) acquisition, forfeiture,
change, exercise, employment, and expropriation of rights; (6) in-
corporation, merger, dissolution of juridical persons, and changes
in objects of juridical persons; (7) contracts on prices, wages
and other delivery of property, and also payment and receipt thereof;
(8) movements and domicile of persons; (9) the collection, official
inspection, and examination of reports; (10) exceptions and exemptions
to laws concerning control and regulations; and (il) Other matters
deslgnated after consultation with the competent Cabinet Minister
and the Premier."
B. Government Ministries and Bureaus Exercising Economic
Controls
The Ministries responsible for exercising war production
controls and the scope of their activities as of January 1, 1945
(for full description see Civil Affairs Handbook, Section 2 A -
Government and Administration and "The Japanese Ministries; Table
of Administrative Structure," Office of Strategic Services, R.
and A No. 2836) are as follows:
1. Munitions Ministry - Established in November 1943 to
exercise overall controls over industries directly related to
munitions production.
Total Mobilization Bureau - Including a General Affairs
Defense and Investigation Section, a Supervision Division which
included a Control, Labor, a Financial and an Efficiency Section.
Aircraft Ordinance Bureau: Electric Power Bureau: Fuel
Bureau, covering petroleum, the fermantation industry, synthetic
oil and gas; Coal Bureau, Non-Ferrous Metals Bureau; Iron and Steel
Bureau, including Sections on Iron and Steel Manufacturing, Special
Steels, and Distribution; Light Metals Bureau, including Sections
on Aluminum, Magnesium and Carbon Alloys; (incorporated into Air-.
craft Ordinance Bureau, June 1945) Chemicals Bureau, including
10 041 p12 bu

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
Organic, Inorganic Synthetic, Chemical Administration and "House-
hold" Sections; Machinery Bureay, including Machinory (probably
machine tools), Administration, Precision Instrument, Industrial
Machinery and Power Machinery Sections; Qrganization Bureau, in-
cluding Financial Affairs Section; Statistics Bureau; Mining
Superintendent Bureau; Planninz Board; Munitions Superintendent
Division and a Works Bureau with an Equipwent Section.
2. Agriculture and Conmerce Ministry - General Affairs
Buresu, including a General Affairs, Adjustment, Resources Mobili-
zation, Associxtions (of agriculture, industry and commerce), funds,
Oils and Fats and Planning Sections; Agriculture Administration
Bureau, including Agriculture Administration, Management, Agricultural
Products, Agricultural Insurance, Land Cultivation, Animal Products,
Fertilizer and Feed Sections; Textile Bureau, including Cotton
Manufacturing, Silxs and Woolens, Synthetic Fibre, Sericulture and
Planning Sections; Forestry Bureau, Fruits Bureau, Fisheries Bureau;
Horse Administration, Consumers Cammodities Bureau, including Agri-
cultural Food Products, Animal Food Products, Manufacturad Foods,
Manufactured Goods Section; Commodity Price Bureau; Food Control
Bureau; Business Affairs Bureau.
3. Finance Ministry has among other Bureaus a Monopoly
Bureau dealing with tobacco, salt and camphor and a Patent Bureau.
4. Greater East Asia Ministry which handles economic
affairs relating to Japanese trade and economic activities in the
occupied areas includes a Manchurian Affairs Bureau with a Devel-
opment of Industries Section, Land Development Section and a
Colonial Affairs Section; China Affairs Bureau, including General
Affairs, Government Administration, Financial, Agriculture and
Forestry, Commerce and Industry, Transportation, and Special Pro-
perty Sections;
Southern Regions Bureau (includes all other occupied
areas), including Industrial, Financial, Commercial and Trans-
portation Sections;
Trade Bureau including a Planning Section, Import
Section and Export Section.
5. Home Affairs Ministry -
Prefectural Bureau, including an Administration Section
and a Financial Administration Section; Police Bureau, National
Public Works Bureau, including a Rivers Section and a Road Section;
Control Bureau, including a Civil Administration Section, Financial
Section, Development of (Local) Industries Section, Economic Section;
16 041 'p13 bu

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
6. Transportation and Communications Ministry*
Communications Board including a General Affairs
Bureau, Operations Bureau, Savinzs and Insurance Bureau, and
an Enzineering Bureau; Railway Bureau General, including a General
Affairs Bureau including Accounts, Treasury, Labor, Training,
and Welfare Sections; Bureau of Operations including Finance, Ware-
houses, Transportation, Shipping, Traffic, and Engines and Cars
Sections; Installations and Equipment Bureau, including an Equipment,
Maintenance and Repair, Roadbed, Stations, Trunk Lines, Construction,
and Machinery, Electric Power, and Communications Section; Materials
Bureau, including Rolling Stock, Metals, Coal and Materials, Shops
Passenger and Freight Cars, and Engina Sections; Labor Bureau, Regional
Installation Department Offices and Regional Railroad Bureau Offices;
Marine Transportation Bureau-General, including General Affairs Bureau,
Marine Transportation Bureau, including Harbor Administration, Marine
Affairs, Beacons and Engineering Sections; Seamen's Bureau, Shipping
Bureau; and Regional Marine Transvortation Bureau; Aviation Bureau
(civil aviation); Lighthouse Bureau, Motor Vehicles Bureau, Harbor
Bureau, including Harbor Construction Divisions at Niigata, Yokohama,
Kobe and Shimonoseki.
7. Ministry of Welfare
Health Bureau; Labor Bureau including Control, Planning,
Facilities, and Registration Sections; Insurance Bureau and a War
Labor Promotion Headquarters.
A study of the above list of the economic functions of the
various Ministries discloses that production controls at the national
level were concentrated largely in the Munitions Ministry and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Conmerce. The former concerns itself
largely with the production of munitions other than ordnance which is
directly under Army and Navy Ministries and the industries connected
therewith while the latter concerns itself largely with the distribu-
tion of essential minimum civilian requirements. The Munitions Minis-
try, which combined functions of a War Production Board, a War Man-
power Commission, a War Labor Board and a part of the Army Service
Forces (as far as aviation is concerned), maintained under the Premisr
a dominant position over the other Ministries. In general it controlled
the National Economic Mobilization policies; the production of raw
materials for key industries; the production, distribution, con-
sumption and price of mineral and industrial products; the regulation
of labor, wages, and capital in enterprises relating to production
and distribution of electricity (see Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan,
Section 10 A - Administration of the Electric Power Industry) pro-
duction and distribution of machinery and machine tools; and con-
trolled the petroleum and alcohol monopolies. It exercised such
*In the Spring of 1945 the Communications Board was separated froa the
Ministry.
16 041 p14 bu

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
over-all allocations of raw materials and prioritias determinations
as obtained in Japan, operational details concerning which ara still
unavailable.
The reorganization of the control functions to achieve de-
centralization on a regional basis which got underway in June, 1945,
resulted in the transfer of many functions formerly exercised by
the Ministries to the Regional Superintendents-General Offices.
These offices in case of emergency were to allocate the materials
and supervise production on a regional basis in accordance with
over-all regional allocation made by the central government. All
national mobilization and production programs were worked on a
yearly basis and broken down into quarters for purposes of allocating
materials and power. The Japanese year for this purpose is the same
as the government's fiscal year namely from April 1 to March 31.
Thus the first quarter embraces April, May and June.
Its only competitors bureaucratically speaking were the Army
and Navy Ministries who could place contracts directly with the
Munitions Companies for ordnance and who controlled directly the
Army and Navy Arsenals. In addition the Navy Ministry exercised con-
trol over all ship-building, both naval and merchant marine.
Such intra-Cabinet bureaucratic conflicts as arose were pro-
bably resolved within the Cabinet by the Premier acting on the advice
of the Cabinet Planning Bureau, and possibly the Cabinet Advisory
Board.
Sharper and more enduring than the clashes among the bureau-
crats within the Government as to the development and exercise of
economic controls has been the conflict between Government and busi-
ness and industry at all levels. Nevertheless, the Government has
progressively extended its control directly and indirectly over all
industrial as well as agricultural production from the largest
Zaibatsu enterprises down to the small local enterprises in the mure
at a sub-prefectural level. The heaviest sufferers in this progressive
elimination of a free-enterprise, cospetitive economy have been the
small and medium sized commercial and industrial organizations and
businesses, which, under the combined pressure and manipulation of
the Government and the large industrial and commercial enterprises
(including the Zaibatsu) have been in large measure squeesed out of
existence either through forced mergers, or by being deprived of
essential raw materials, capital or labor needed to carry on their
activities. The largest concerns have been able to hold their own
through a series of compromises whereby they have become virtually
quasi-governmental enterprises and their leading representatives
virtual government officials, who in a few cases have taken positions
of ministerial rank in the Cabinet. There has developed in recent
years forms of organization of industry which stop only just short
of a complete nationalization of that industry. Under the powers
conferred upon the Government by the War Measures Act of June 1945,
it is quite possible that the nationalizatian of Japan's war industry
will cccur before the end of the war. These organizations are the
Control Societiee (Tosek-kai) and their sub-organizations the Control
18 041 p15 bu

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
-12 -
Associations (Tosei-Kumiai); the Munitions Companies, the National
Policy Companies and the Eidan or Corporations.
Under a law passed on February 18, 1942, which was based
on Article 18 of the National General Mobilization Law, official
authority was extended to the Control Societies, the National
Policy Companies, the Corporations (Eidan) to carry out their re-
sponsibilities (See Appendix VII). These control organizations were
to be considered as government agencies in discharging their re-
sponsibilities and any violation of their orders was to be considered
as a violation of the particular law or regulation upon which their
order was based. The officials of these organizations were to be
considered as Government officials. Matters relating to the allo-
cation and distribution of raw materials and of production programs
within the respective industries were to be conducted by these
organizations.
In addition, there were the prefectural Commercial and
Industrial Eccnomic Boards organized under Government direction.
A description of the organization, operational responsibilities
and interrelationships of these agencies with each other and with
the Government will throw further light on how Japan's war economy
functions and provide a background upon which to base recommendations
as to the extent to which M.G. can or should utilize them for the con-
trol of its own production programs.
C. Quasi-Governmental Organizations Controlling Industry
1. Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and Control Associations
(Tosei-Kumiai).
The Major Industries Association Ordinance proulgated
August 29, offective September 1, 1941, laid the basis for the
organization of the major proportion of industry for war pro-
duction. (For text and Amendment see Appendices V and VI).
By 1943, 12,762 of the 83,024 corporat1ons of Japan or 15 percent,
were organized into Control Societies under tnis ordinance re-
presenting assets evaluated at 11,626,000,000 yen or 38 percent of
the total industrial assets. Prior to the establishment of the
Munitions Ministry in November 1943 there were no less than 345
of those Societies organized and placed under the supervisory con-
trol of the former Ministry of Commerce and Industry (22 under
Motals Bureau, 75 under Bureau of Chemistry, 31 under Machine
Bureau, 96 under Textile Bureau, 99 under Fuel Bureau, and two
under Trade Bureau). Since that time many more have been organized.
Distribution according to industry in l943 was as follows: Motal
Mining 397 corporations; Coal Mining 215, Metal Refining 134, Machinery
4,844, Cement 68, Trade 880, Rails, 297, Fibre 4,315, Chemical 541,
Fats and O1l 329, Rubber 440, Leather 306.
The passage of the ordinance setting up these vertical
control societies followed a long struggle batween elemonts in
the bureaucracy and among the military and private industry, and
represents a compromise whereby private industry was to retain its
basic character as such but to be brought under the stricter control
18 041 p18 bu

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
of the government than over before. The ordinance provided
for the establishment of Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and
Control Associations (Tosei-Kumiai) by kind of industry when
designated to do so by the competent minister. They are set
up under civil law as joint stock companies. The functions
of the Control Societies as defined in Article 6 are broad in
scope. They are responsible for planning with the government
the national program for production and distribution in the
industry concerned, the means of supplying the labor, raw
material, capital and any other demands of the industry con-
cerned; for controlling and guiding production and distribution
of any of the enterprises belonging to the industry concerned;
providing for the complete equipment of the industry, developing
the technique, increasing the efficiency, unifying the techniques
of production, performing the management, undertaking investigation
of the enterprises within the industry and conducting research.*
Officers of a Control Society consist of a president,
several directors, several inspectors, and a board of trustees.
In some cases twc vice-presidents and one chief-director may be
appointed. The president represents the Society, controls and
guides the Society and manages all the affairs of the Society.
His is a very powerful position and that position has usually
been held by the head of one of the largest units in the industry
as a whole. He is appointed to the position by the competent
minister from among those suggested by the nominating committee.
The nominating committee in turn is appointed by the competent
minister from among those "who have had experience with or have
made special studies on the industry concerned" (Art. 14). The
president in turn appoints, with the approval of the competent
minister, the vice-presidents, the chief-director, the directors
and members of the board of trustees. Bach board "elects" in-
spactors who investigate the financial conditions of the Society
and advise the president on inquiries submitted to them by the
president. With the approval of the competent minister, the
president can discharge the vice-president, chief-director and
the directors even during their three year term of office. The
officers shall not be engaged in other official duties or in
commercial business except as the compatent minister may allow
(Articles 12-16).
Through this autocratic method of selecting officers it
is understandable how it has come about that the dominant units,
usually Zaibatsu controlled, have been able to control these
Societies through their keymen in close cooperation with the
ministerial bureaucrats.
In July 1945, the Major Industriss Ordinance was revised to
strengthen the Control Society in order to increase their regional
administrative autonomy. (See Appendix VI).
10 048 p17 bu

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
-14 -
The Control Society may give suggestions about matters
related to the industry to the minister concerned with the in-
dustry and must give answers to inquiries submitted by the
minister. In turn the officers may request from members sub-
mission of the necessary material for the investigation of cer-
tain points regarding the industry and such material must be
submitted immediately (Articles 17, 18). The Control Society
may levy assessments and fines on members, establish control
regulations governing members, investigate the business affairs,
financial conditions, account books, establishments, and other
property of members if it is considered necessary. The president
may with approval of the competent minister discharge officials
of member concerns when an ordinance, or administrative decision
based on an ordinance is violated, or the Society's regulations
are violated or the public welfare is jeopardized. (Art. 27).
The powers reserved by the Government over the Control
Societies are extensive as defined in Articles 31-36. The
competent ministers may order business reports to be made when-
ever they consider necessary or inspect factories, accounting
books, documents or other items; they may order the Society to
conduct such investigations or order the Society to operate a
needed enterprise; they may take over management of the Society
itself; they may discharge the presidents and other officers and
may dissolve the Societies.
The Control Associations (Tosei-Kumiai) closely parallel
in their functions and organization the Control Societies and
are :ubordinated to them. The Societies represent and control the
industry as a whole, while Kumiai representing largely medium
and small sized enterprises are organized into a Control Associa-
tion on a territorial basis, i.e., Do, Fu or Ken. They may have
as members single proprietors, companies, joint stock companies,
industrial or commercial associations, federations of industrial
and commercial associations, or mixed combinations in a given
industry. They may embrace two or more such administrative divi-
sions. The head of the asscciation is a Chief-Director who is
appointed by the president of the Control Society over the same
industry. When there is no Control Society, the competent minister
appoints a Chief-Director. With respect to certain functions
and powers set forth in Art. 50 the government's local prefectural
administrative office takes the place of the competent minister.
By Art. 51 the Minister of Army or Navy replaces the competent
minister when inquiries, reports, inspections, investigations and
orders concerned are of direct military importance. This clause
was a source of conflicting jurisdictional disputes both within
the Government and in the Control Societies. The establishment
of the Munitions Ministry in November 1943 was designed to re-
solve these disputes at the top level. At the operating level
the conflicts occurred in the relation of the Munitions Companies
to the Control Societies.
10 041 p18 bu

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-15 -
Operationally the major Control Societies have head
offices usually in Tokyo with branch offices in the eight
regions and sub-branch offices in prefectures where their
enterprises are centered.
The Government, in order to exercise control over
the Societies issued under Article 16 of the General National Mo-
bilization Law on May 13, 1942, an ordinance which vested
in the Ministries the authority to restrict or prohibit the
use or transfer of industrial facilities or patent rights held
by mamufacturing or commercial organizations; to restrict
or prohibit sale of enterprises, to order the transfer, by
sale or lease, of industrial facilities or patent rights held
by companies or juridical bodies and to order companies or
juridical bodies to absorb specified enterprises. This or-
dinance was to apply to both large and small enterprises but
to be applied against larger ones only when they show reluctance
to comply with government requests for expanslon or altaration
of their lines of production. The result of this ordinance was
to increase the rate of merging or abolishing small and nedium
sized entarprises.
At the outset the Control Societies under the general
supervision of the competant ministers had the rasponsibility
of controlling and allocating materials within their spheres.
This, however, led to a chaotis situation in which enterprises
were competing for the same materials but in diffarent Societies
There was lacking a uniform allocating systam under a priorities
rating until the Munitions Ministry was established late in 1943.
This development and the increase in the nunbar of Munitions
Companies seemed to reduce the dominant role of the Control
Societies over the economy as a whole. However, that was not
the case and they continued to exercise a useful role of a
liaison character and in carrying out the administrative regu-
lations of the government with respect to the control and opsration
of industry itself. Likewise through their control over the
thousands of small enterprises organized into the Tosei-Kumiai
they brought their capacities and facilities into relationship
with the overall production schedules of the government. In this
regard they operated most effactively at the regional and pre-
fectural levels.
In general it can be said that by July 1945, the Control
Societies controlled the production and distribution of the pro-
ducts of their raspactive industries under the regional allocations
of the Regional Superintendenta-General Offices in accordance with
the overall regional allocations granted the region under the
General Mobilization Plan of the central government. An ordinance
issued July 4, 1945 revisad the Major Industries Ordinance of
September 1, 1941 for the purpose of strengthening the Control
Societies giving them the power to operate and administer as well
as exercise general managerial supervision over all members'
facilities (See Appendix VI). In so doing however, they were to
remain under the general supervision of the Regional Superintendents
Generals Offices set up in June 1945. The Regional Offices' task
16 041 p19 bu

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
- 16 -
was to set up supply and distribution quotas for their re-
spective regions and issue allocation certificates under a
priority system to the Regional Control Society branches.
It is the job of aach Society to see that production quotas
are met, to allocate production quotas amony the enterprises
within the Society and to assist the competent minister in
deteraining prices and to distrimute the product properly
under the allotment certificates issued by the Government.
Thus even in case of a through-production plant such as a
steel plant it cannot utilize its own ingot or special steels
except under an allotment certificate. (For regulations of
typical Societies see Appendices VIII-XVIII).
2. Munitions Companies (Guniu Kaiaha)
Several years before the outbreak of war in the Paci'ic
in 194! the Japanese Government, through the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry and Army and Navy Minlstors. began to extend
its control over designated plants of the larger industrial
intarests to guide them in converting and expanding their
facilities for the production of munitions of all kinds. The
Army and Vavy bought for then with governnent funds necessary
machine tools of all kinds fron abroad, placed contracts with
then, guaranteed profits, assisted them in getting priorities
on scarce materials and labor. They sant their own technicians
jnto thase plants and supervised and inspected the output. By
the time the war broke out there were over a hundred of such
plants and sub-plants producing the most advanced types of
ordnance of which Japan was capable, from aircraft to small arms
ammunition.
On December 7, 1943, a Munitions Company Law (for
summary, see Appendix III) went into effect designed to extend
the government's direct control over these plants even further.
Since the passage of the act the nunber of such companies has
increased to over 400. The range of activities engaged in by
these companies extend fron finished aircraft, ordnance, tanks,
trucks, through iron and steel manufacturing, chemicals, machine
tools, fuels, coal, non-ferrous metals, electric power and gas
works. While the ownership of the companies remained private
the Governmsnt, particularly the Munitions Ministry and the Army
and Navy Ministries, virtually managed then.
According to the Article 5 of the Act, the designated
companies were to select a person responsible for production
among the officials of the company." If they could not do so
the government would sppoint a person to that position. The
managerial staff and employees would be subject to the orders
of the "leader" in charge (Art. 14). The government could punish
this designated "leader" for failure to carry out his duties.
10 041 p20 bu

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.98)
- 17 -
The Government might designate the "time, plans, quantitiss,
and other nacessary matters" relating to production schedules
(Art. 6). It might issue ordars relating to the acquisition,
storage and movement of basic materials, to the inprovemant of
technique, the supervision of labor and other matters necessary
to carry or the enterprise (Art. 7). It might restrict or ban
the Munitions Coapanies from engaging in other than designated
operations (Art. 10). It might issue necessary orders "in con-
nection with the analgamation or dissolution of munitions com-
panias" (Art. ll). It might "issue orders to munitions companies
necessary to effect the adjustment and management of funds" (Art.
12). It might issue orders or take necessary measures for the
supervision of munitions companies (Art. l5), and gather, inspect
and examine reports on "the business matters of munitions companies
(Art. 16).
In return for submitting to these Government controls,
the Munitions Companies enjoyed many privileges. The Government
might cancel bans and restrictions in regard to procedures for
permits, etc., (Art 3). They could thus obtain special priorities
with respect to materials, equipment, and capital funds. They
could recruit labor and the government could guarantee profits
(Art. 4). The Government could back up the absorption of one
enterpriae by another (Arts. 8 and 9). Under Article 8, the
Government might "issue orders necessary for cooperation between
the Munitions Company and those (persons) connected with carrying
on the operation of cooperating factories and subsidiary factories
and other enterprises which the Munitions Company conducts". Under
Articla 9, the Government might "issue to Munitions Companies
orders necessary in connection with the taking over or taking
custody of enterprises, the classification (of articles of trust),
or changes in the articles or incorporation, the delegation,
transfer, or discontinuing or suspension of operations (and) the
transfer of equipment or (patent rights) belonging to an enter-
prise." Administratively these companies were placed under the
direct supervision of the Munitions Ministry through the Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus set up in the nine (later, after February
1945, eight) regions.
In view of the favored position held by the Munitions
Companies, it is natural that doubts arose as to the continued
usefulness of the Control Societies. However, they continued to
survive, as we have seen above and were given a stronger position
under an ordinance issued about July 4, 1945. The relations
between the Control Socisties and Munitions Companies at the
regional level were controlled by the Munitions Superintendence
Bureau, which after June 1945, were placed in the Regional
General-Superintendonts offices. Ths principal function of
the Regional Superintendence Bureaus (for details see Appendix
IV) was to coordinate production with requirements and see that
Munitions Campanies got their priority quotas of raw and semi-
finished materials from the Control Societies and Associations.
18 041 p21 bu

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
-18 -
The fact that the large Zaibatsu and other combines had some
factories which were designated Munitions Companies and some
which were in the Control Societies or Associations together
with the general situation that Munitions Companies utilized
the materials and semi-finished products produced by them to
fabricate end-products reduced the sphere of potential con-
flict between the two. Furthermore, overall priority and
allocations control was concentrated in the Munitions Ministry
which contimued after the decentralization reorganization of
June 1945, to issue basic production and allocation quotas
on a rogional basis.
3. National Policy Companies
Japan began the establishment of semi-official
"national policy" companiss in 188l with the establishment
of the Yokohama Specie Bank.* Up to 1939 there were 36 of
these comnanies. Before 1936 these companies were usually
concerned with banking comnunications and colonial and re-
gional development. Two of the most facous in the last named
field were the South Manchurian Railway Company and the Oriental
Development Company. The first such company to be concerned
pri-arily with the industrial fiald was the Japan Iron Manu-
facturing Company established in l933. Fourteen of these com-
panias were organized between 1937 and 1939, a number of which
were designed to exnand production of "strategic" materials
regardless of cost. These included the Imperlal Fuel Develop-
ment Company, Japan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company, Janen Rice Company, Imperial Mining Development Company,
Japan Aeronautical Transportation Company, Japan Fertilizer
Company and the Japan Coal Company.
The government as a rule contributes part of tho
canital (usually half), permits the issue of debentures up to any-
where from two to ten times the paid-up capital; guarantees the
principal and interest on debentures; receives dividends at a
*The genaral term "National Policy Companys" as used herein and
generally elsewhere in reality covers two types of companies,
namely, Kokusaku Kaisha (National Policy Companies) and Tokushu
Kaisha (Special Companies). The former term refers to large
regional development companies such as the Hokkaido Development
Company, the Oriental Development Company (for Korea), North China
Development Company, etc. These companies usually include sub-
sidiary comnanies. The Special Companies cover specific coanodi-
ties or industries. The generic term is justified as the govern-
ment exercises large measures of control and directly or indirectly
and finances them to carry out broad national policies.
16 041 p22 bu

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19 -
lower rate than private shareholders or gives them up entirely
when profits are small; grants exemptions from income, profit
and local taxes and from import duties on inported materials
and equipment for a limitad number of years; and sometimes pro-
vides subsidies. In zeneral, national policy comnanies were
formed to assure adequate expansion of facilitiss and materials
to meet the needs of the expanding strategic industries and
establish to the fullest extent possiblə and uneconomic autarchic
war economy. During the war these companies have continued to
enjoy high priority preferential treatment in the supply of
materials, equipment and mannower under direct control of the
competent Cabinet Ministers. The number of such companios
operating in Janan proner has considerably increased since 1941.
By 1943, there were no less than 480 of these policy companies
operating in Japan proper. (See Appendix XXv for a list.)
4. Eidan or Corporations
The Eidan (possibly an abbreviation of Eigyo Dantai)
are state-managed and sometimes partially or wholly government
financed coroorations established to engage in enterprises and
activitias which are frequently uneconomic in character, but
essential to the war effort such as the importation of vitally
needed raw materials regardless of cost, the purchase of vital
raw materials within Janan and control of their movement, the
purchase of outworn equipment, liquidation of enterprises which,
because of their smallness or lack o. technical efficiency, are
unsuited for war production purposes, construction of housing
for war workers, farn development projects, the selling, pur-
chasing, and mamufacturing of important food-stuffs, improva
medical and hospital facilities, etc. A brief description of
a number of these Eidan will give a picture of their functions
and relation to the control of the war economy.
(a) Industrial Facilities Business Corporation
(Sangyo Setsubi Hidan)
This corporation was organized by the government on
December 27, 1942 with an authorlzed capitalization of 200,000,000
yen. The government issued bonds at a price of 95.9 yen per
hundred yen bond to ccver this capitalization. The purpose of
the corporation was to purchase or transform the equipment of
facilities of idle and unfinished industrial establishments under
the guidance and authority of the Commerce and Industry Ministry
to make them of use for munitions production. With the permission
of the government authorities such industrial establishments can
be rented out to munitions companies or other concerns for the
production of munitions or other essential products. It was pro
vided that Article 16 of the General Mobilization Law could be
invoked against owners of such idle anl unfinished plants who
might be unwilling to sell them or refuse to convert them to war
production.
16 041 p23 bu

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
(b) Essential Materials Supervision Corporation
(Juyo Busshi Kanri Sidan)
This corporation was crganized under Law No. 69, dated
February 24, 1942, with a capitalization of 20,000,000 yen,
supplied entirely by the government (See Appendix XVIII). The
purpose of the corporation was, "To guarantee and increase
stocks of essential materials in wartime; to provide for efficient
and adequate utilization of the stored essential materials". The
corporation was to provide for the storage of essential materials
either in its own facilities or to order others to do so. It was
to purchase locally or through importation essential materials, to
stockpile them and sell them under priority allocations to war
industries. It possibly took over control of warehoused enemy
materials. The Corporation can demand reports on stored materials
and inspoct books of ccncerns holding such stocks.
There is no provision for issuing of debentures, nor for
covering losses, the government absorbing all losses. Penalties
are provided in case of negligence on the part of the corporation's
officials. With the establishment of the Koeki Eidan in July
1943, the functions of this organization were absorbed into it.
(c) Regional Trading Corporation (Koeki Bidan)
The Koaki Eidan was established by the Government in July
1943 and placed under the supervision of the Greater East Asia
Ministry to centralize, and make more direct than in the past,
government control over all export and import trade, to relate
that trade directly to the war effort by assuring that the
greatly restricted flow of exports be directed to secure essential
commodity imports for war industries and to assure that the mini-
mum exports allowed be made available for export and not find their
way into the domestic markets. (For details see the Foreign Trade
Guide.)
The corporation absorbed the functions of the Essential
Materials Supervision Corporation and supervised the over-all Trade
Control Society, organized January 27, 1942, composed of 83 com-
panies and 90 guilds (renamed Japan Trade Association May 4, 1942).
One major wartime problem confronting the
Japanese was to assure that articles would be made available for
export necessary to obtain a return flow of vitally needed imports.
There existed within Japan such a vast unsatisfied demand for the
same articles for which high prices could be paid that a rigid con-
trol, under what the Japanese called the "link system", had to be
maintained. The link-system began to develop in 1937 and was de-
signed to link the raw material imports to their finished end-
product for export to assure that all the end-products would not be
absorbed in the domestic market. This was done by designating
certain factories to produce the end-products for export and
allocating raw material imports to them accordingly. This practice
was continued after the war started as evidenced in regulations
on articles for exportation issued March 5, 1,42 (see Appendix XXII).
16 041 p24 bu

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
-21 -
U..doubtadly the Koeki Eidan continued to operate the link system
to obtain the same objectives. As M.G. may be faced with the
same problem, a descrintion of the link system as it worked
before the war has been appended to this guide. (See Appendices
XXIII, XXIV.)
With the establishment of the Koeki Eidan (Koeki may be
translated as Regional, or Zonal, i.e., greater East Asia Sphere
trade) Janan further abandoned liberal trading principles and
set up a virtual state controlled trade (See Appendix XXI).
In order to simplify control the number of persons and firms
engaged in exnort and import "barter" trade numbering over
6,000 in 1942 was reduced to 600 by the end of 1943. The Kooki
Eidan operated in cooperation with a number of associations to
which most of the remaining 6o0 firns belonged. These associa-
tions served as agents of the Eidan. Expert firms which exported
more than five kinds of goods exceeding an average value of
5,000,000 yen during the years 1941 and 1942 were allowed to
contimue business. all others were to be merged according to
order from the greater East Asia Ministry under whose super-
vision the Koeki Eidan operated.
The minimum yearly turnover of importers was also fixed
at 5,000,000 yen. Imporiers who did not achieve this minimum in
the past were not allowed to merge but were compelled to give up
the import business. They received up to 100,000 yen compensation
paid either by the exporters' guilds or by the Kooki Associations
(Koeki Kyokni) organized into the Japan Trade Control Society.
This latter society was reported to have established a Regional
Trade Adjustment Committee consisting of 39 members divided into
19 sub-committees according to kind of goods to be exported and
one sub-committee dealing with imports. The Committee was en-
trusted with handling imports, conducting research, giving neces-
sary advice, and answering questions asked by the government.
The scope of the powers of the Kooki Eidan was broad.
It had control over the import and exnort of commodities and
the purchase and sale of same in connection with their import
and export.. It was responsible for warehousing, controlling the
movement, purchasing and selling certain imported vital war
materials. It could engage in auxiliary activities as the nsed
arose reiated to the above activities. It also had the respon-
sibility for adjusting commodity prices in the Greater East
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. It was to carry out its trading
function and vital resources control function in accordance with
an annual plan laid down by the government subject to readjust-
ment every three months in accordance with the changing supply
and demand situaticn. It might allow other legal persons or in-
stitutions to carry out a part of its business with the approval
of the government. In that case the corporation or institution
which participated was considered as the part of the staff of
Midan. When the organization was first established 687 erticles
18 04t p25 bu

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
-22 -
were designated for import. Later the list was lengthened.
Exclusive of rice, wheat, tobacco, charcoal and salt, ranged
all the way from iron and coal down to towels and shoe-strings.
The export business was carried on in two ways: (1) Direct
export by the Eidan, (2) Export by entrusted export organizations.
Such entrusted organizations were the Japan Controlling Company
for Grocery Trade, Japan Export Promotion Company for leather
products, the respective Japan Export Associations for Brushes,
for Textile Materials, for Furs, for Tea, for Agricultural Pro-
ducts for Greens and Fruits and for Marine Products. The import
business was either carried on directly or by entrusting persons
to carry it on. Regions covered were Kuantung, Leased Territory,
Manchuria, China, Thailand, French Indo-China, Germany and Italy.
The Southern Regions under Military control were excluded.
Its control over vital resources covered: (1) iron and
steel, raw materials, for iron and steel, and iron and steel pro-
ducts, (2) non-ferrous metals, their raw materials and products,
(3) textile products and raw materials, (4) medicine, medical in-
struments and other materials for hygienic purposes; and (5) other
materials as designated by the appropriate ministries. To carry
out this function a section on control and planning was set up in
the planning department of the organization.
The Eidan had the function of purchasing unutilized raw
materials in one factory and moving it to another as needed.
It had the responsibility for purchasing and ware-housing
and conserving materials needed for emergency relief such as
lumber, galvanized shooting, nails and also medicines.
Certain vital materials such as coal, cotton and bauxite
were put in charge of the respective Control Societies of the
industries utilizing them but the Eidan had continued supervising
control over their disposition.
It had control over such stocks of materials and com-
modities assigned for export when war broke out as still remained
in Japan.
It purchased and controlled luxuries, confiscated enemy
gools, artificial silk pulp and raw rubber.
It had control over enemy properties.
Its auxiliary business consisted of the management of
warehouses in which the commodities under its control were stored;
supply of materials for manufacture of goods for export and providing
loans.
18 041 p26 bu

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.99)
- 23 -
It thus plays a role roughly parallel to the Foreign
Economic Administration, the U.S. Commercial Company, and
the Alien Property Custodian in the J.S.
Among the other Eidan was one to provide housing for
civilian workers. It was established May 1, 194l, with an
authorized capitalization of 100,000,000 yan, 56,723,640 yen
of which was paid up by l943 all by the government. The
headquarters were Tokyo with a branch office in Yokehama,
Osaka, Nagoya, Hiroshima, Fukuoka and Sendai. Another was
the Central Food Administration Corporation established Sep-
tember 1, 1942. The authorized capitalization was 100,000,000
yen, of which 30,000,000 yen was invested by the government.
The purpose was to control the preservation and distribution
of food under government direction. It had branches in Otaru,
Sendai, Nagoya, Osaka, Kobe, Takamatau and Moji and field of-
fices located in Niigata, Toyama, Mito, Yokohama, Shizuoka,
Kyoto, Okayama, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, Kagoshima, and
Taihoku. In addition there was on Eidan governing local food
administration with offices in each prefecture and metropoli-
tan area.
This completes the descriptive survey of the major
governmental and quasi-governmental agencies exercising eco-
nomic controls at the national level. There should, however,
be mentioned in passing the various and frequently changing
Cabinet advisory boards and councils in which the represont-
atives of the largest industrial combines found a place. Their
existence represents an effort to compromise the conflicts
which arose among the bureaucrats; the military and industri-
alists. Through these advisory councils and through the posi-
tions held in the Cabinet by representatives of the combines,
the big industrialists have retained a position of influence
in the formulation of policy and its administration. In ad-
dition there existed a musber of industrial councils made up
of representatives from industry who advise the various min-
istriés and assist in the coordination of production program.
III. Controls at the Regional Level
The development of the administration of economic con-
trols at a regional level began in June 1943, when Japan pro-
per was divided into nine administrative regions. The purpose
at that time was to simplify administration by eliminating the
excessive bureaucratic red-tape and jurisdictional conflicts
16 041 p2π b

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.99)
-24
which arose out of the exercise of controls at the lovel of
the 47 little prefectures under which the country had been
administered since the latter half of the past century. At
the same time the "Presidents" of these nine regions were
given rank equivalent to that of a Cabinet Minister and were
to report directly to the Premier. The ultimate aim was to
develop regional economic self-sufficiency for war purposes.
In February of 1945 the number of regions was reduced
to eight, by which time they coincided exactly with the six
military districts into which the country was divided - ons
of the military districts, called the "Central District",
containing three of the administrative regions. On June 23,
1945 this Central Army District was divided into three parts
exactly along the lines of the three administrative regions
formerly located within it. Thus by that time the eight Army
Districts coincided with the eight Regional Districts and were
called by the following names: Hokkai, Tonoku, Kanto-Shinetsu,
Tokai-Hokuriku, Kinki, Chugoku, Chikoku, and Kyushu. (For a
list of the prefectures included in each region and the name
of the head city where the regional administrative control of-
fices are located, see Appendix I).
In June 1945 the Government, under the imminent threat
of invasion, laid the basis for the extension to the eight
regions administrative autonomy in the event any one or more
of them should be cut off fron contact with the central re-
gime. On June l0th the regional administration offices were
reorganized into Regional General Superintendents-General Of-
fices with a Superintendent-General in charge of each. The
personnel of the offices began to be strangthaned by trans-
ferring officials from the Ministries to these Offices. The
basis for the authority of these Offices was provided for in
the Extraordinary War Measures Bill passed on June 12. Under
this Bill the Diet surrendered to the Government, its powers
for the duration of the war. In the bill the tarm "Govern-
ment" was defined to include the new Regicnal Superintendents-
General. The powers conferred under this Bill were total in
scope and subject only to an Imperial check. Unlike the Na-
tional General Mobilization Law, first passed in 1938, the
Bill provides for unlimited power to be exarcised by the Gov-
ernnent which can exercise its powers not only through the
issuance of Imperial decrees but through Ministerial ordi-
nances and regulations. These same powers can be exercised
by the Superintendents-General in case of emergencies. All
previous legislation, ordinances and decrees can be set aside
insofar as the Government determines to do so and new
18 041 p28 bu

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
-25 -
regulations and controls established. The broad powers thus
potentially conferrable on the Regional Superintendents-
Goneral have been set forth above.
The regional Munitions Superintendence Bureaus were
retained and incorporated into the structure of the new Super-
intendents-General Offices. The regional Munitions Bureaus
were originally set up by the Munitions Ministry and were de-
signod to supervise over-all production programs at a regional
level. Their function was to supervise and coordinate produo-
tion programs among the Munitions Companies within each region
and to coordinate the production of the members of the Control
Societies within the region to that of the Munitions Companies,
depending upon them for raw materials and semi-finished pro-
ducts. Under the re-organization of June 1945 they will not
only exercise their former functions, but also will exercise
broader controls undoubtedly as the war goes on. An indica-
tion of this is seen in a Tokyo broadcast to the home audience
in June 1945 to the effect that the control over the disposal
or purchase of special ores and ferro-alloys formerly exercised
by the Munitions Ministry will henceforth be carried out in ac-
cordance with distribution regulations of the local Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus.
To serve in an advisory capacity to the Regional Supar-
intendents-Ganeral it was proposed in June that in addition to
the members of the orefectural and other local administrative
councils, that members of the Diet living in a region and other
leading individuals be organized into a Councll.
It is apparent that the trend toward decentralization
had by June 1945 placed in the hands of the regional author-
ities responsibility for directly controlling war production
programs under over-all plans laid down in Tokyo by the Cab-
inet in general and the Munitions Ministry in particular.
This is of significance to M.G. in their own planning as the
utilization of this same regional basis for the administration
of their own programs and the subordination of prefectural con-
trols to regional controls would serve to simplify the problems
of coordination which will arise.
IV. Controls at the Prefectural and Municipal Level
While the operational controls exercised at the region-
al lavel largely concerned themselves with the production of
war materials those at the local administrative level were re-
lated to the production of food and civilian commodities in
10 041 p32 bu

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
- 26 -
general required to meet the mininum needs of the people as
a whole. Such controls were of course exercised under the
direct supervision of respon ible Ministrios in Tokyo. (For
details on the administrative crganization and functions of
local government, sse Civil Affairs Handbook; Japan, Section,
2 A and 2 B, Government and Administratlon- Local Government).
The trend toward decentralization outlined above with respect
to the regions likewise affected the responsibilities of the
local administrative units. In May 1944 many functions for-
merly exercised by the central government were delegated to
the prefecture. The Home Ministry transferred 5l functions
including the right to authorize the construction of public
utilities costing less than l00,000 yen, the rights to author-
ize improvements of rivers, bridges, and urban dwellings, etc.
The Munitions Ministry transferred controls over the acquisi-
tion of raw materlals and production of goods peculiar to cer-
tain local regions, while the Agriculture and Forestry Min-
istry transferred supervision over crop improvements and lo-
cal marketing facilities.
In general the major aim was to allow the prefectures
greater freedom to cooperate with the reglonal administration
in developing regional self-sufficiency in supplying the noeds
of the people and maintaining public services. In order to
coordinate the functions of the various prefectures in a re-
gion with that of the regional adrinistrations, local and re-
gional Administrative Councils were set up in March 1944 in-
cluding representatives from the local monopoly bureaus, lo-
cal fuel bureaus, local communications bureaus, railway bureaus,
Marine transportation bureaus and mines superintendence bureaus.
The chiefs of the Munitions Superintendencies became members
of these Councils at that time.
To draw the small and medium-sized local commercial and
industrial interests closer into the nst-work of controls a
law was promulgated on March 12, 1943, setting up Commercial
and Industrial Economic Boards in order to supervise and con-
trol their activities under the "leadership principle". (See
Appendix XIX, XX). As the Boards were set up the former
Chambers of Commerce and Industry were abolished. The new
Boards were to be more broadly representative of local in-
terest than the former Chambers whose membership was confined
largely to the urban areas. The Boards were to assist lo-
cal authorities in coordinating local production programs and
to supplement the vertical controls exercised by the Control
Associations and Socioties by horizontal controls extending
across all lines of production. However the Boards exercised
10 041 p30 bu

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
- 27 -
only advisory and educstional functions so as not to con-
flict with the stronger vertical controls exercised at re-
gional and national levels. They were to organize regula-
ting groups in urban and rural areas to facilitate the
work of the government in carrying out governmantal regula-
tions and maintain liaison function with local Control Asso-
ciation (Tosei-Kumiai) into which even small enterprises
at the mura or village level were organized.
The chairman of the Boards had dominate power. They
were appointed by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry from
lists submitted by the prefectural governors. Directors
were appointed by the prefectural governors. Both chairman
and directors were on a salary basis. Members represent all
types and sizes of business. Big concerns were represented
by individuals and amall concerns by their respective group
organizations. There were three types of members: (1) In-
dividuals representative of comparatively large firms paying
above a fixed amount of tax, (2) Commercial and industrial
associations, trade association, ete., (3) Groups connected
with the economy but not in a profit-making manner or regula-
tory capacity such as Councils, Federations of Associations,
Factory Societies, Research groups, etc.
In the fall of 1943 it apnears that the Boards were
reorganized on a. regional basis with branch offices at of
each regional administrative canter.
These Boards, after reorganization to afford more
democratic representation of small enterprises to make it
possible for them to express their will through a council,
could be of aid to M.G. by advising on the civilian needs of
each prefecture or region and recommend channels through
which materials could be sold and to recommend to whom to
grant needed credits.
16 041 p31 bu

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
- 28 -
PART III
RECOMMENDATIONS
I. Military Government's concern in the administration of production
programs in Japan.
Objectives governing the administration of production
programs by Military Government.
Subject to the restrictions imposed by policy direc-
tives with respect to the Disarmament of Japan and
the prevention of the redevelopment of the Japanese
war potential Military Government will be concerned
with the administration of production programs. in
order to:
1. Produce goods to supply the needs of the occupy-
ing forces.
2.
Produce consumer goods to provide for the min-
imum essential needs of the civilian population
and reduce the necessity for imports.
3. Produce goods for export, the first charge against
which will be for the payment of approved es-
sential imports.
4. Provide capital goods to repair and maintain:
a. The equipment of factories and facilities
producing the goods for the above four pur-
poses;
b.
Essential public utilities;
c.
Essential communications and transportation.
5. Provide solid and liquid fuels.
6. Provide essential housing and building materials.
7. Administer production programs in such a manner as
to create conditions favorable to the emergence
and growth of democratic forces in Japan.
The term "Administration of Production Prograns" as used in
this guide is defined as covering all activities involved in
the processing of supplies from raw materlals to the finished
product, but does not include such portions of specific indus-
tries as normally do not utilize industrial processes such as
agriculture and fisheries with respect to which activities
special guides have been prepared.
10 041 p32 bu

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
-29-
II. The general situation which will confront Military Gov-
ernment in Japan.
Whether the occupation of Japan be partial or complute
or of short or long duration Military Government will need to
concern itself in production programs to attain the objectives
outlined above due to universal shortages of vital raw mate-
rials and consumer goods which will obtain. Moreover, the de-
struction or breakdown of transportation facilities and public
utilities will effect every area of Japan in varying degree
and require a control over production, allocation and movement
of quipment and repairs to restore the most essential facil-
itias.
The efforts of the Japanese authorities since 1943 to
establish economic self-sufficiency on a regional basis will
have attained at most only a temporary effectivaness through
stock-piling of supplies traditionally deficient in particular
areas. By the time of invasion these stock-piles of consumer
goods and repair equipment may well be destroyed or used up
creating a situation in which essential supplies will have to
be brought in from other aress normally producing surpluses
or where destruction will have been less widespread. This
situstion will nacessitate the application of M.G. control
to deternine whers such relative "surpluses" may exist and
to order their transfer to arees where they may be most needed.
This is a problem that cannot be left to the Japanese alone to
solve. Under the impact of invasion M.G. must be prepared to
fact a chaotic condition in which practically all cantralized
controls will have broken down, while regional controls will
be largely ineffective if only due to the fact the top-ranking
officials will probably disappear, particularly if their
families live elsewhere. Under calamitous conditions the
Japanese officials will tend to think first of their family,
second of their local and prefectural region and last of their
responsibilities to the state. Consequently only some of the
regional and prefectural controls will be operating to any ef-
fective extent with lower-ranking lccal officials on hand.
Because of their outlook and interests local officials will
not be concerned about supplying other areas and will seek
to retain and conceal stocks for local use and to exaggerate
local needs. Consequently M.G. will have to take direct
charge of top regional and central controls and order Japan-
sse officials to carry out allocation and production programs
which they have drawn up with Japanese assistance as discussed
below. Japanese officials may have to be ordered back to their
posts or assume new positions in areas to which they may have fled.
1θ041 p33 bu

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
- 30 -
In the event that the occupation of Japan occurs only
after surrender nossibly a more orderly government set-up
will obtain and M.G. will be able more quickly to establish
its over-all controls which can be more supervisory and in-
direct in character than if the occupation occurs only after
invasion and fighting.
III. Methods for exercising economic controls.
Due to the probable shortages of some key raw mate-
rials and of available facilities for processing the end-
products with which M.G. is concerned priority and allocations
controls supplemented by credit controls should be established.
As a rule only key materials in short sunply will need to
have priority and allocating controls. However, due to
transportation difficulties, the movement of all materials
may have to be under control to assure that all essential mate-
rials have priority of movement from sources of supply to
plant facilities and then end-products distributed according
to need.
As a general rule production of items not on M.G.'s
priority listing of requirements or beyond the amounts M.G.
allocates to meet its objectives should be allowed provid-
ing (1) it does not require utilization of facilities banned
by M.G. because of their war-potential character (2) does
not utilize materials in short supply and (3) does not im-
pede the movement of priority raw materials and end-products.
In other words, M.G. need concern itself directly only with
its own priority production programs and limit its concern
with all other production to see that it does not interfere
with M.G.'s production programs nor break security objectives
with respect to disarmament or utilize banned facilities
ordered shut down for whatever reason by M.G. authorities.
Local M.G. authcrities should permit, under their gen-
eral supervision, the production of items not included in the
above lists, which require only local materials and which are
essential to meet civilian needs either locally or elsewhere,
or for the export insofar as their production does not inter-
fere with the fulfillment of the above pricrity program.
There are three major ways in which to control produc-
tion programs, namely through the granting of priorities, of
allocations, and of credits.
A. Priorities.
16 041 p34 bu

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
Priorities should be established to maintain at the
highest feasible level the production of:
1. Products of first priority which are those re-
quired by military forces, both in the pre-surrender and
post-surrender periods, and the fuels, materials, equlpment
including maintenance and repair items, required to produce
them.
2. Products of second priority which are those re-
quired to supply minimum essential civilian requirements
such as food products, medical supplies, clothing and tex-
tiles, bicycles, household equipment, sanitation supplies,
soap, liquid and solid fuels, fertilizers and the fuels,
materials and equipment, including repair and maintenance
items, required to produce them.
3. Products of third priority (possibly occuring
only in the post-surrender period) to supply goods for ex-
port, the first charge against which will be for the pur-
chase of essential imnorts to meet above production prior-
ities.
B. Allocations.
Japanese authorities operating under M.G. should be
ordered to allocate fuels, raw materials, semi-finished and
finished goods, items for maintenance and repairs on the
following priority basis:
1. To meet the requirements of the armed forces.
2. To meet transportation requirements to meet
civilian needs for agricultural products, the
processing of food products, medical supplies,
sanitation supplies, soap and fertilizers.
3. To meet requirements for the production of cloth-
ing, textiles and footwear, farm equipment and
implements, bicycles, and household equipment.
4. To meet any authorized export requirements.
C. Credits.
M.G. through its control over the financing facilities
of the Bank of Japan (see Guide on Control and Use of the
18 041 p35 bu

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
- 32 -
Bank of Japan during the period of Military Government) will
have in its hands an instrument for supplementing its priority
and allocation controls. The devastation caused by the war
and the attendant shortages of raw materials and capital goods
accompanied by rising prices will necessitate the extension of
credit to enterprises authorized by M.G. to produce essential
materials. By coordinating credit authorizations with prior-
ity allocations, M.G. can channel the flow of scarce materials
into the enterprises producing priority goods. As states in
the guide on Control and Use of the Bank of Japan, Section on
Financing of Industrial Activities "in cases in which corporate
funds are inadequate and bank loans are not readily available,
industrial enterprises essential for the administration and
maintenance of the minimum civilian economy of the country
should be permitted direct access to the financing facilities
of the Bank of Japan. For these purposes, the Bank of Japan
should undertake directly those types of industrial finance,
operations which were formerly performed by the Industrial
Bank of Japan and other banks. It should provide short-term
credit to industrial enterprises by discounting three to nine
months bills secured by contracts with orders of the Civil Af-
fairs and other military authorities, or Japanese governmental
organs with the approval of the Civil Affairs authorities."
Reorganized local commercial and industrial associations
(Kumiai) made up in large part of cooperative enterprises and
small and medium-sized business producing consumer's goods
should especially receive the support of M.G. in the way au-
thorized credit extensions as most of the members will have
no funds while many of them will have been forced out of pro-
duction for civilian use by the war economy.
The adoption of a liberal credit policy with respect to
small and medium-sized local producers of civilian goods for
the domestic market will relieve M.G. of many of its most press-
ing problems. As these incentive goods start flowing into the
markets farmers will be led to expand production of foodstuffs,
curtailing inflationary trends and permitting a gradual relax-
ing of rationing and price controls.
In the case of larger established enterprises with
whose products M.G. is concerned the Bank of Japan should make
advances on the security of government bonds, corporate de-
bentures, equipment certificates and general mortgages on in-
dustrial properties.
IV. Recommendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
control agencies and control regulations.
16 041 p36 bu

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
- 33 -
A. General Recommendations. In general M.G. at the out-
set of the occupation should maintain in force laws and re-
gulations relating to the control of industry and allocation
of fuels, power, raw naterials, semi-finished goods, items
for maintenance and repair subject to subsequent directives
fron higher authorities as to amendments, abrogation, etc.
Likewise M.G. at the outset should maintain or re-establish
local agencies responsible for the administration and enforce-
ment of such laws and regulations as are maintained in force
and require officials and employees of such agencies, to con-
tinue with or return to their functions.
The principles governing the utilization, abrogation, or mod-
ification of existing Japanese controls should have two major
objectives. First, the re-direction of the flow of materials
from war production into civilian production channels and the
production of equipment for the restoration and maintenance
of essential transportation and public utilities. Wartime
restrictions on the utilization of materials for such purposes
and to meet M.C. priority production programs should be re-
laxed. Secondly, in accordance with long-range U.S. nolicy
objectives, M.C. should exercise its controls and reorganize
or abolish Japanese agencies in order to re-direct Japanese
war-time economy into a free enterprise, competitive economy
in which small and medium-sized enterprises are unstiffled
by excessive government controls or by the cartels and the com-
bines. By according small and medium-sized enterprises demo-
cratic representation in the conduct of the affairs of the as-
sociations to which they belong, by giving them a strong posi-
tion in any advisory councils and by granting them higher
priorities than the large enterprises and combines, that have
sided and abetted the war policies of Japan, with respect to
power, credits and raw materials, M.G. can help these smaller
enterprises to get on their feet first. The hope of encourag-
ing the emergence of a democratic Japan resting upon a strong
middle class lies in the strength and position of the small
and medium-sized producers and distributors in the economy.
From the outset of the occupation M.G. can give a bent and di-
rection to Jananese economy which will hasten the achievement
of long-range U.S. objectives. There is every reason to be-
lieve that such an economic policy would meet with wide-spread
approval in Japan, and lead to the cooperation of the people as
a whole with M.G.'s programs.
16 041 p37 bu

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
- 34 -
B. Utilization of Japanese control agencies at the nation-
al lovel.
Whether oa not M.G. deals with or replaces the Minis-
tries, the Munitions Ministry should be abolished and such of
its war-time functions and controls as are needed to obtain M.G.
objectives should be transferred back to the old-line Ministries
together with unpurged personnel, and its records preserved.
The designated 400 odd munitions companies, which operated under
its supervision and under the more direct control and super-
vision of the Army and Navy Ministries, should, in principle be
closed down and only those most essential and most readily con-
vertible to line of production in which M.G. is interested be
re-opened (for details and exceptions see industry guides and
the guide on war industries). M.G.'s policy should be to favor,
first, small and medium-sized plants which continued to produce
commodities during the war in which M.G. is interested, and
secondly, such small and medium-sized plants as were more or
less converted to war production on a contract or sub-contract
basis with the designated munitions companies. Any large muni-
tions plants M.G. might need to operate should be operated
directly under M.G. supervision in accordance with general
policy directives and the recommendations in the respective
industry guides.
M.G. in accordance with procedures set forth in the appropriate
Property Guide, should directly concern itself with assets,
property and facilities of all National Policy Companies and
all Eidan or public corporations. (See Part II, B, 3 and d).
Insofar as M.G. finds it useful to continue the operation of
any of the facilities of government managed or owned agencies
and monopolies or utilize their organization and materials it
may do so. It is conceivable, for example, that the Koeki
Eidan, which controls foreign trade, might be utilized should
M.G. be confronted with the necessity of assembling commodities
for export, or the Emergency Housing Eidan might be utilized
for building barracks, etc.
C. Utilization of Japanese control agencies at the region-
al and local levels.
The large extent to which Japan has decentralized its
operational controls on a regional basis, as discussed above
Part II, C, forms the basis for the recommendations below
that M.G. do likewise and base its operational controls at
that level and subordinate prefectural agencies of control to
16 041 p38 bu

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
-35 -
the regional set-up. Production programs and controls could
then be centralized and coordinated on a regional basis and
Japanese agencies and mechanisms could be more readily adapted
and utilised. The Regional Superintendents General Offices
conld be charged with the responsibility for developing pro-
grams. The Munitions Superintendence Bureaus attacbed to
such offices should be abolished and replaced by a central
planning and control unit. It is suggested that there be at-
tached to the offices of M.G.'s regional production agencies
advisory councils made up of representatives of industrial
and commercial interests of the region. Such coundils should
adequately represent small and medium sised interests who
should hold a majority of the places on the councils and be
able to out-vote representatives of large firms having facil-
ities in a specific region. The chairman of the councils
should be democratically selected by the members subject only
to the approval of M.G. The regional organisations of the
Commercial and Industrial Boards, discussed above Part II, D,
should be utilised and adapted to fit this advisory function.
With the majority of the 400 odd munitions companies plants
either destroyed prior to occupation or shut down by M.G.,
the facilities left available for approved production pro-
grams will be those vertically organized into the Control
Societies (Tosei-kai) and their subsidiary Content Associa-
tions (Tosei Kumiai), (for a description of these see Part
II, B, 3a). The Control Society itself is a quasi-govern-
mental control agency as the Chairman and Board of Directors
were government appointed and had transferred to them offi-
cial administrative powers. Through them the government has
been able to extend its control over all industry down to the
small locally organised Kumiai or industrial or commercial
associations. In order to establish a free-enterprise, com-
petitive economy the Control Societies and Control Associa-
tions should be abolished and their assets and property placed
under custody and the Kumiai reorganized along voluntary co-
operative lines on a local or prefectural basis. Equal voting
rights should be assured to prevent renewed domination of the
Kumiai by the large ccncerns representing the combines who in
the past have, through finanoial controls and cartelization
techniques, tended either to force them to merge or to go out
of business. Since 1937 and to a greater extent after 194l
thousands of small producers supplying the domestic consumers
and to some extent foreign markets have been forced cut of
business pressure from the government and combines. In the
post-surrender period many of them will seek to get back into
their former production and distribution activities again.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
- 36 -
The great demand for locally produced consumer goods will give
them an enticing market. M.G. should encourage them by allow-
ing them to reorganize along cooperative democratic lines, al-
locate materials and equipment to them and grant them credits.
The restraints and controls exercised by the Control Societies
under government direction on a nation-wide basis should be
abolished. As recommended above the regional and central Con-
trol Societies' offices, records and staffs, below that of
Presidents and Directorys can be utilized by M.G. to obtain
over-all information on the regional set-up of the industry
as it obtains at the time of occupation for M.G.'s planning
and control purposes.
As M.G.'s first problems with respect to Japan's economy will
probably arise at the sub-prefectural and prefectural level
the above policy vis-a-vis the small and medium sised local
producers of civilian goods should be put into effect at the
outset. By encouraging the existing and former local pro-
ducers and distributors freely to organize themselves, as they
will instinctively want to do, into cooperative, and demo-
cratically run organizations M.G. will at one and the same
time relieve itself of many problems connected with consumer
goods production and re-orientate Japanese economy to peace-
time production for the domestic market, first, and ultimate-
ly to the kind of export production Japan may be permitted
to engage in.
V. Recommendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
personnel.
In consonance with the general policy directives with
respect to the principles set up covering the utilization of
Japanese personnel, officials and others, or in accordance
with prepared lists of people to be purged, M.G. should avoid
using all officials who since July 7, 1937 nave held positions
of Shin-nin and Choku-nin ranks or positions of equivalent im-
portance in the Japanese government ministries, regional and
prefectural offices and control agencies; all Presidents,
Directors, and members of Boards of Trustees of the Control
Societies and Control Associations; high executives of National
Policy Companies and Eidan; governmentally designed individuals
responsible for production in the Munitions Companies, the top
officials in charge of the Munitions Superintendence Bureaus,
Chairman or heads of Economic Industrial Boards, etc. Japanese
who have held similar high-ranking positions outside of Japan;
who have been in active military or naval service since July 7,
1941; who have held directive positions in the Imperial Rule
10 041 p40 bu

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
Assistance Associations or its successors together with their
affiliated organizations; and those who have been members of
"patriotic societies" of extreme nationalist tendencies should
not be utilized.
VI. Recommendation concerning the protection of records,
plants, etc.
M.G. should hold designated Japanese officials and
employees of quasi-governmental agencies, officials and em-
ployees of industrial and other business associations and of
individual companies and organizations strictly responsible
for the protection from destruction and the preservation in-
tact of all funds, property, equipment, and records of all
government agencies; all plants, mines, property, stocks of
materials on hand, equipment and patents; and all books and
records of companies and organizations and trade and research
associations.
VII. Recommendations concerning reporting.
It is recommended Japanese officials and such govern-
mental and quasi-governmental agencies, private organisations
and individuals as may be designated by M.G. be required to
submit initial reports and thereafter current reports covering
the following points.
A. For each factory or establishment employing or capable
of employing 10-15 (possibly 30) or more employees (a) name
and location; (b) stocks on hand, supplies and finished goods
on hand, capacity and current production; (c) how much electric
power or fuel, lubricants, raw material, machinery and machine
tools, and manpower is necessary to maintain full production;
(d) feasibility of converting a war plant to other production
and equipment required to do so; (e) patents and processes em-
ployed; (f) current state of equipment and repair items needed,
etc.
B. Reporting on establishments employing 10-15 (possibly 30)
or less employees, it is suggested might be done on a sub-pre-
fectural territorial basis such as the mura or groups of mura
by the associations or cooperatives (kumiai) into which they
are organized placing upon the associations responsibility
therefor.
C. For each prefeoture designated Japanese officials, as-
sisted by an advisory council democratically representative of
16 041 p4L bu

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
- 38 -
of small, medium and large sized commercial, agricultural,
and industrial interests in the area should prepare an over-
all report on a quarterly basis setting forth:
1. Minimum civilian requirements for food, clothing,
household equipment, medical supplies, etc; to-
gether with currant prices for same.
2. What portion of thase requirements can be met by
local production using local materials consequently
showing what finished products and raw materials
must be brought into the prefecture.
3. What surplus production for distribution elsewhere
the prefecture is capable of supplying.
4. What essential public utilities and services need
repair and restoration to maintain essential eco-
nomy and what supplies will be needed.
5. A census of the prefecture on an age, occupation,
and residential basis. The census should show
number of displaced persons in prefecture, in-
cluding family relatives who did not live in pre-
fecture before war started, and the number of
aliens including Koreans.
6.
Any other reports required by the regional or cen-
tral control agencies to inform them on conditions
locally or which would enable them to determine
what portion of Japanese wartime controls to util-
ise to attain M.G. objectives in consonance with
U.S. long-range policy vis-à-vis Japan.
7. The M.G. regional agencies might utilise the re-
cords and personnel of regional branch offices of
the Gontrol Associations to report on membership
status, facilities, production capacities, condition,
and raw material requirements of all individual and
group or association members (Tosei-Kaisha and Tosei
Kumiai).
They should also be asked to report on what equipment
would be necessary to convert to civilian pro-
duction. Each major concern might be required to
report percentage of production which went into
munitions and what percentage went into civilian
16 041 p42 bu

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
- 39 -
meeds. This would afford a basis upon which to
allocate materials to concerns or assooiations
that had retained during the war a predominately
civilian line of production and could continue
to produce without the necessity of converting.
Facilities utilised directly or indirectly for
mmitions purposes should obtain lowest priority
or be entirely shut down. Those putting out
munitions end-products will of course be shut
dowm. The Control Societies as such, however,
should be abolished as recommended above under
IV, c.
VIII. Recommendation concerning sabotage and the enforcement
of M.G. Controls.
Through its controls over the flow of vital materials
M.G. has in its hands the power to lessen or increase that
flow to areas or regions in accordance with the degree of
cooperation obtained. In areas or regions where sabotage is
frequent or widespread, where materials are misused or pro-
duction schedules are not maintained without justifiable
reasons, the allocations of power or materials to such re-
gions or areas can be curtailed. In other words, punishment
should not be limited to individuals or even to plants unless
cases of sabotage, etc. are few and widely scattered, but
should be extended to the whole community or area. This
would fix responsibility on the area as a whole and engender
cooperation with M.G. in suppressing sabotage, and in meet-
ing production schedules. In no case should materials be
cut off to the point where minimum essential civilian needs
cannot be met. Rather the emphasis should be on reyarding
areas that cooperate by increasing the availability of civil-
ian supplies, while designated Japanese officials and individ-
uals or associations could be beld initially responsible for
onforcing controls and meeting production schedules.
IX. Suggestions concerning Military Government's organization
for the administration of production programs.
A. Central Organization.
It is suggested that M.G., because of its concern in
production programs as outlined above, set up at central head-
quarters a production control agency which will include a plan-
ning and control umit. This unit, on the basis of reports sub-
mitted by the functional units of the central sgency as to
16 041 p43 bu

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.99)
- 40 -
requirements, and the availability of facilities and mate-
rials in the occupied region as a whole, could draw up pri-
ority production schedules and allocate production quotas,
key raw materials, credit, and power accordingly and deter-
mine the distribution of the end-products in accordance with
the needs of M.G. first, of the civilian population, second-
ly, and eventually if and when foreign trade is resumed, to
determine what proportion of the production in any given
line shall be made available for export. Such programming
and allocating should be worked out from the outset if pos-
sible on a quarterly basis bearing in mind in that connec-
tion that the Japanese controlled production year extends
from April 1 to March 30 and the first quarter thus covers
the months of April, May and June.
Because of the unavailibility at present of detailed
data as to the Japanese techniques, forms and procedures
for over-all programming and allocating for the consumer
economy, it is suggested that M.G. in its planning utilize
the experience of the War Production Board and study its
techmiques, forms and procedures.
In order to supply the planning and control unit with
the data it requires to carry out its over-all planning and
control functions and in order to take supervisory responsi-
bility for the fulfillment of production programs M.G. will
probably need to establish functional units covering liquid
and solid fuels, mining, industry, public works and utilities,
transportation, and if and when foreign trade is resumed, a
foreign trade unit, etc. These units could advantageously
be broken dowm further into end-product, sub-units. The in-
dustry unit, for example, could have sub-units dealing with
textiles and clothing items in general, chemicals, building
materials, metal processing and metal goods, manufacture of
light and heavy electrical goods, consumer goods, etc.
These units and sub-units on the basis of their own
investigations and on reports submitted by the agency's
branches in the occupied regions could make reports as to
requirements and as to the availability of facilities, mate-
rials and power to meet these requirements. Operationally
they could determine in accordance with policy directives,
which facilities should be operated to produce the materials
and goods required and what proportion of one total each ter-
ritorial unit should produce. They could determine the dis-
tribution flow of end-products to meet M.G. requirements
first; minimum consumer economy needs secondly, and into
16 041 p44 bu

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
- 41-
foreign trade channels in the third place in accordance with
policy determinations as to priorities. In all these opera-
tions they should conform to the allocation and priority
decisions of the central planning and control unit.
B. Regional and prefectural organization.
At the outset of the occupation the central produc-
tion control agency could exercise direct control in the
initial prefectures or region occupied (for a description
of the region into which Japan has been divided see Part II, Sec-
tion III and Appendix I). As the occupation progresses the central
agency might continue directly to control production in the
metropolitan area or prefecture where its headquarters may
be located and supervise the sub-branches in the other pre-
fectures belonging to the region where it is located. In
all other partially or wholly occupied regions it could
establish regional branches modelled structurally after the
central agency subject to the peculiar productive capabilities
of the region. It might be the responsibility of the region-
al branches, on the basis of their own direct investigations
in the prefecture in which they are located and on the basis
of reports and recommendations submitted by the sub-branches
in the other prefectures within their respective regions, to
draw up requirements for the region as a whole, submit to the
central agency inventories of supplies of raw material, con-
dition and nature of processing facilities and what equipment
and repairs would be needed to put them into operation or to
convert them from production of munitions to production of
items required to meet M.G. production programs. In accord-
ance with allocations of materials and production quotas
worked out by the central agency on the basis of the reports
thus submitted, the regional branch could reallocate its over-
all regional quotas among the prefectures within its region,
In the case of large manufacturing units it might be more fea-
sible for the regional branch to allocate materials directly
to such plants and to exercise a more direct supervision over
such plants wherever situated in its region.
16 041 p45 bu

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
16 041 p46 bu
Appendix I
Administrative Regions of Japan - 1945
Regional Administrative
Location of
Districts and Regional
Prefectures
Offices of Regional
Army Districts
Mumitions Superintendencies
Included in Region
Superintendents-General
Northern
Hokkai
Hokkaido (including
Sapporo
Karafuto)
Tohoku
Tohoku
Aomori, Iwate, Miyagi,
Sendai
Akita, Yamagata,
Eastern
Kanto-Shinstsu
Fukushima. Ibaragi,
Tokyo
Toohigi, Gumma, Saitama,
Chiba, Tokyo, Kanagawa,
Yamanashi, Niigata, Nagano.
Tokai
Tokai-Hokuriku
Gifu, Shisuoka, Aichi, Mie,
Nagoya
Ishikawa, Toyama
5
Kinki
Kinki
Shiga, Kyoto, Osaka, Hyogo
Osaka
Nara, Wakayama, Fukui
Chugoku
Chugoku
Tottori, Shimane, Okayama,
Hiroshima
Hiroshima, Yamaguchi
Shikoku
Shikolu
Tokushima, Kagawa, Ehime,
Takamatsu
Kochi
Western
Kyushu
Fukuoka, Saga, Nagasaki,
Fukuoka
Kumamoto, Oita, Miyazaki,
Kagoshima, Okinawa
(As of June 1945)

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
APPENDIX II
National Mobilisation Law of Japan
Law No. 19 of 1941
Promilgated March 1, 1941
Article 1. The term national general mobilisation as
used in this law denotes the control and operation of human
and material resources in order that the nation may be enabled
to display its total power most effectively for the realisa-
tion of national defense purpose in time of war (including an
incident corresponding with a war, the same applying correspond-
ingly to the following parts).
Article 2. The term general mobilization goods in
this law denotes things listed below:
1. Armaments, war vessels, ammunitions and other mili-
tary goods.
2. Garments, foodstuffs, beverages and fodders which
are necessary for national general mobilization.
3. Medicines, medical instruments, other sanitary
materials which are necessary for national gen-
eral mobilisation.
Ships, airplanes, rolling stock and vehicles,
horses, and other materials for transportation
which are necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
5. Goods for communications which are necessary for
national general mobilization.
6. Engineering and building materials and goods for
lighting system which are necessary for national
general mobilization.
7. Fuels and eloctric power which are necessary for
national general mobilization.
8. Raw and other materials, machines and tools,
equipment and other goods which are necessary
for the production, repair distribution and
conservation of each of the foregoing stipula-
tions and
16 041 p47 bu

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
9. Goods besides each of the foregoing which may be
designated by Imperial Ordinances as necessary
for national general mobilisation.
Article 3. General mobilisation businesses under this
law denote those which are listed below:
1. Businesses relating to the production, repair,
distribution, exportation, importation and stor-
ing of general mobilisation goods.
2. Businesses relating to transportation and communica-
tions which are necessary for national general
mobilization.
3. Businesses relating to money and banking which
are necessary for national general mobilization.
4. Businesses relating to sanitation, veterinary
sanitation and relief.
5. Businesses relating to education and training
which are necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
6. Business relating to experiments and researches
which are necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
7. Businesses relating to information and campaign
of education which are necessary for national
general mobilization.
8.
Businesses concerning guarding which is necessary
for national general mobilization.
9. Businesses besides each of the foregoing which
may be désignated by Imperial Ordinances as nec-
essary for national general mobilisation.
Article 4. In time of war the Government if necessary
for national general mobilization may enlist subjects of the
Empire and place them in general mobilization businesses in ac-
cordance with provision of Imperial Ordinances. This provi-
sion does not prevent the application of the Conscription Law,
however.
10 041 p48 bu

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
-45 -
Article 5. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may cause subjects of the
Empire or juridical persons or other organisations of the Em-
pire to cooperate with the State or local public organisa-
tions or other persons designated by the Government.
Article 6. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may issue orders which
are necessary regarding the use, employment or discharge or
assumption of offioes or assumption of service or retire-
ment of employees or wages, salaries and other working condi-
tions, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 7. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may issue necessary or-
dere regarding the prevention or settlement of labor disputes
or the closing of plants, suspension of operations, or re-
striction or prohibition of acts relating to labor disputes, in
accordance to provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 8. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may issue necessary orders regarding the
production, repair, distribution, transfer or other disposal,
uses, consumption, holding and movement of goods, in accord-
ance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 9. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may restrict or prohibit
exportation or importation, or may impose export duties or im-
port duties, or may increase or decrease export duties or im-
port duties, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordi-
nances.
Article 10. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may use or expropriate or
cause a person who administers general mobilisation business
to use or expropriate general mobilisation goods, in accord-
ance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article ll. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may restrict or prohibit
the establishment or corporations, capital increases, consoli-
dations, changes in the purposes of businesses flotation of de-
bentures or the second subsequent calls for unpaid portions of
capital; and my issue orders regarding disposition of corpor-
ation profits, writing off of fixed assets or other matters
concerning accounting; and also may issue orders against banks,
trust companies, insurance companies and others designated by
16 041 p49 bu

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.99)
-46 -
Imperial Ordinances regarding the operation of their funds, or
undertaking or guaranteeing monetary obligations.
Article 12. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may make special arrange-
ments in accordance with Imperial Ordinances, and irrespective
of the provisions of Article 200 or 210 of the Commercial Code,
with respect to flotation of debentures or capital increase of
a corporation engaged in a general mobilisation business to
meet expenses for equipmsnt belonging to said corporation.
Article 13. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may manage or use or ex-
propriate the whole or part of factories or workshops or ves-
sels and other facilities belonging to a general mobilisation
business or other facilities which are convertible into it, in
accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
In case of use or expropriation of things listed in the
foregoing clause the Government may cause the owner of them to
offer the operatives, or may operate patent inventions or re-
gistered utility models which are actually operated in the
said facilities, in accordance with provision of Imperial
Ordinances.
The Government if necessary for national general mo-
bilization in time of war may manage, use or expropriate
land, houses or other establishments which are necessary for
general mobilization businesses, or may cause a person who
administers a general mobilisation business to use or expro-
priate them, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances.
Article 14. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may use or expropriate
the mining rights or rights relating to the use of water, and
may cause a person who administers a general mobilisation
business to operate patent inventions or registered new utility
models or to use the mining rights or rights relating to the
use of water.
Article 15. When things expropriated by the Government
under the provisions of the preceding two Articles have become
out of use, and in case they are to be sold within a period
of 10 years following their expropriation, or when things ex-
propriated by a person who conducts a general mobilisation
business under the provisions of Article 13, Paragraph 3, have
become out of use within a period of 10 years following their
expropriation, the former owmers or former holders of the rights
16 041 p50 bu

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.99)
- 47-
or legitimate successore to them may buy them back on a pre-
ferential basis, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances.
Article 16. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may restrict or prohibit
establishment or extension or improvement of equipment be-
longing to a general mobilization business, or may order the
establishment or extension or improvenent of equipment be-
longing to a general mobilization business, in accordance
with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
(2) The Government if necessary for national general
mobilization in time of war may issue necessary orders con-
cerning transfer or other disposal of, investments in, use
and removal of, equipment belonging to a general mobilisa-
tion business, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances.
(3) The Government if necessary for national general
mobilization in time of war may issue necessary orders re-
lating to the assumption, entrusting, joint management,
transfer, abolition or suspension of business, or changes
in business objectives or consolidation or dissolution of
corporations, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances.
Article 17. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may cause the proprietors
of the same or different kinds of enterprises to obtain ap-
proval of the Government regarding the conclusion or change
or abolition of an agreement or agreements on control of the
respective enterprises, or may order then to conclude or
change or cancel control agreement or agreements among them-
selves, or may order the participants to act in accordance
with the said control agreement or agreements, in conformity
with provision of Imperlal Ordinances.
Article 18. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war the Government, in accordance with pro-
visions of Imperial Ordinances, may cause the proprietors
of the same or different kinds of enterprises or their organi-
zations to control the said enterprises or order them to
establish an organization or corporation with the object of
orarating for the control.
16 041 p51 bu

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
- 48 -
An organisation which is to be established under the
foregoing provisions shall be a juridical person.
When persons who have been ordered to establish an or-
ganisation in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1
have failed to establish it, the Government may take necessary
measures regarding the preparation of articles or association
or other matters relative to its establishment.
When an organization has been established in accord-
ance with the provisions of Paragraph 1, the Government may
cause persons who have qualifications as the constituent mem-
bers of the said organization to become the conatituent mem-
bers of the said organization.
The Government may cause an organisation which has
been established in accordance with the provisions of Para-
graph 1 to obtain approval of the Government regarding the
adoption or change or abolition of its control regulations
pertaining to enterprises of its constituent members (includ-
ing the constituent members of the latter, this applying
correspondingly to the following parts), or order it to
adopt or change the control regulations, or may order its
constituent members or persons who are qualified to be its
constituent members to act in conformity with the control
regulations.
Matters pertaining to an organization or a corpora-
tion under the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed
by Imperial Ordinances.
(2) In case the Government has ordered the transfer of
facilities or rights, or investments under the provisions
of Article 16, Paragraph 2, or has ordered the transfer of
an enterprise under the provisions of Article 16, Para-
graph 3, necessary matters relating to the succession to
obligations of the transfer or investor or disposition of
their security shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinances.
(3) Regarding the transfer of facilities or rights, or
investment under the provisions of Article 16, Paragraph
2; or transfer of an enterprise or consolidation of cor-
porations under the terms of Article 16, Paragraph 3; or
an organization of a corporation established in accordance
with the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1 or 3; the
government, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances, may set up exceptions pertaining to calculations
of the standard of tax levy, or may make arrangements for
reduction or exemption of taxes.
16 041 p52 bu

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
- 45 -
Article 19. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation in time of war the Government, in accordance with pro-
visions of Imperial Ordinances, may issue necessary orders,
regarding price, transportation charge, storage, insurance
premium, rentals, processing charge, repairing charge or
rates of other payments on property.
Article 20. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war the Government may restrict or prohibit
the insertion of articles in newspapers or other publications,
in accordance with prohibition of Imperial Ordinances.
The Government may prohibit sales and distribution of
newspapers or other publications containing items which hin-
der the national general mobilisation in violation of restric-
tion or prohibition under the foregoing provisions, and may
attach them. In this case the Government also may attach
their original plates.
Article 21. The Government, whenever it deems it nec-
essary for national general mobilization, may cause subjects
of the Empire or the employers of Japanese subjects to re-
port regarding the occupational ability of the Japanese subjects,
or may conduct examination concerning the occupational ability
of the Japanese subjects.
Article 22. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation may issue necessary orders against the
administrators or managers of schools, training institutes,
factories, workshops and other institutions suitable for
training technicians or the employers of persons who are to
be trained, regarding training of technicians necessary for
national general mobilization.
Article 23. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation the Government, in accordance with provisions of Im-
perial Ordinances, may cause a person who is engaged in the
production, sales or importation of general mobilisation
goods to hold a certain fixed quality of the said goods or
raw or other materials thereof.
Article 24. If necessary for general mobilisation
the Government, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances, may cause the proprietor of a general mobiliza-
tion enterprise or a person who shall have to operate a
general mobilization enterprise in time of war to formu-
late a plan regarding general mobilisation business which is
to be operated in time of war or may cause him to conduct
exercises and training on the basis of the said plan.
10 041 p53 bu

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
- 50 -
Article 25. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may order a person who is engaged in the
production or repair of general mobilisation goods or the ad-
ministrator of an experimental and research institute to con-
duot experiments and researches.
Article 26. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation the Government, in accordance with provisions of Im-
perial Crdinances, may guarantee a certain fixed amount of
profit or grant subsidy within the limit of its budget for a
person who is engaged in the production or repair of general
mobilization goods. In this case, the Government may cause
the said person to produce or repair general mobilization
goods or to install equipment necessary for general mobiliza-
tion.
Article 27. The Government in accordance with provi-
sions of Imperial Ordinance, shall compensate losses that may
arise from measures taken under the stipulations of Articles
8, 10, 13, 14 or Article 16, Paragraph 2; orders of exporta-
tion and importation issued according to the provisions of
Article 9, orders regarding capital accommodation, subscrip-
tion to securities, underwriting or purchase of securities,
acceptance of obligations or guarantee of obligations under
the provisions of Article ll; orders regarding the establish-
ment or extension or improvement of equipment under the pro-
visions of Article 16; or orders regarding commission, trans-
fer, abolition or suspension of an enterprise or orders re-
quiring changes in the business purposes or dissolution of a
corporation under the provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 3,
except the cases under Paragraph 2 of this Article.
A person who administers general mobilisation business
shall compensate losses that may arise in case of this use,
expropriation or operation under the provisions of Article 10,
Article 13, Paragraph 3 or Article 14, in accordance with
provisiona of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 28. In case the Government issues orders un-
der the provisions of Articles 22, 23, or 25, it shall con-
pensate losses arising therefrom or grant monetary subsidy,
in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 29. The amount of compensation as under the
provisions of the preceding two articles and purchase value
as under the provisions of Article 15 shall be determined by
18 041 p54 bu

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.99)
- 51 -
the Government affer consultation with the General Mobilisa-
tion Compensation Commission.
Rules governing the General Nobilization Compensation
Commission shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinanoe.
Article 30. The Government shall supervise all enter-
prise that receives the guarantee of profit or subsidy money
under the provisions of Articles 26 or 28, and may issue or-
ders or take measures which are necessary in this connection.
Article 3l. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation the Government by order may demand reports or may have
the competent officials inspect necessary places and examine
business conditions or books or documents or other things.
(2) A person falling under either of the following
shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding 10 years
or a fine not exceeding ¥ 50,000:
1. A person who has violated an order or ordera
issued under the provisions of Article 8.
2. A person who has violated an order or orders
issued under the provisions of Article 19.
Article 32. A person who, in violation of an order
issued under the provisions of Article 9, has exported or
imported goods or has attempted to do so, shall be subject
to panal servitude not exceeding three years or a fine not
exceeding10,000.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, the goods
which the offender has exported or imported or attempted to
export or import, if in possession of the offender, be con-
fiscated. If it has been impossible to confiscate the
whole or a part of the said goods, their value may be added
to the fine.
Article 33. A person falling under either of the
following shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding
three years or a fine not exceeding 1 5,000:
1. A person who has violated order or restriction
or prohibition under the provisions of Article 7.
2. A person who, in violation of the order under
the provisions of Article 9, fails to export
or import.
10 041 p05 bu

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.98)
- 52 -
3. A person who has refused or hindered or evaded
the use or expropriation of general mobiliza-
tion goods as under the provision of Article 10.
4. A peraon who has refused or hindered or evaded
the management or use or expropriation of faci-
lities, land or constructions, or offering of
the operatives as under the provisions of
Article 13.
Article 34. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding two
years or a fine not exceeding ¥ 3,000:
1. A person who has violated restriction or prohibi-
tion as under the provisions of Article ll.
2. A peraon who has violated restriction or prohibi-
tion or order as under the provisions of Arti-
cle 16.
3. A person who has violated orders and under the
provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 2.
4. A person who has violated orders as under the
provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 3.
5. A person who in violation of the provisions
of Article 17 or Article 18, Paragraph 5, has
set up or changed or abolished a control agreement
without approval of the Government, or has
violated an order issued under the provisions
of Article 17 or Article 18, Paragraph 5.
6. A person who, in violation of the provisions of
Article 23, does not hold goods.
7. A person who, in violation of the provision of
Article 26 does not produce or repair or in-
stall equipment.
Article 35. A person who has committed a criminal
act under the preceding four Articles may be subjected to
concurrent imposition of penal servitude and fine.
Article 36. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding one
year or a fine not exceeding  1,000:
1d 04r p50 bu

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
- 53 -
1. A person who does not acoed to expropriation
or does not execute the business as under the
provisions of Article 4.
2. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 6.
Article 37. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to a fine not exceeding & 3,000:
1. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 22.
2. A person who does not formulate a plen or does
not execute trainings, in violation of an order
issued under the provisions of Article 24.
3. A person who does not conduct experiments and
researches, in violation of orders issued under
the provisions of Article 25.
Article 38. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to a fine not exceeding  1,000:
1. A person who, in violation of orders issued un-
der the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1,
fails to organise an organisation or corpor-
ation.
2. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 6.
3. A person who has violated an order disposi-
tion as under the provisions of Article 30.
4. A person who has negleoted reporting or made
false report in violation or in order issued
under the provisions of Article 31.
Article 39. In case of a newspaper having violated re-
striction or prohibition as under the provisions of Article
20, Paragraph 1, its publisher and editor, and in case of
other publications their publishers or authors, shall be sub-
ject to penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding two
years or a fine not exceeding  2,000:
In case of a newspaper, a person who actually was in
charge of editing one and who signed the article or arti-
cles involved, besides the editor, shall be subject to the
16 041 p57 bu

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
- 54 -
foregoing provisions.
Article 40. A person who hindered the execution of
attachment asunder the provisions of Article 20, Paragraph
2, shall be subject to penal servitude or imprisonment not
exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding  500.
Article 41. The stipulations of the Criminal Code re-
garding concurrent crimes shall not be applicable to a crime
under the foregoing two articles.
Article 42. A person who has refused or hindered or
evaded the inspection by the competent officials as under
the provisions of Article 3l shall be subject to penal ser-
vitude not exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding  500.
Article 43. A person who, in violation of the provi-
sions of Article 2l has neglected reporting or refused or
hindered or evaded the inspection by the competent officials
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding & 50 or detention or
a minor fine.
Article 44. When a person, who is or has been en-
gaged in a general mobilisation business, has disclosed or
secretly used official secrets regarding general mobilization
business designated by the competent Government offices
which he had come to knowledge of in relation with the exe-
cution of his business, he shall be subject to penal servi-
tude not exceeding two years or a fine not exceeding  2,000.
Article 45. When an official or a person who has been
engaged in official service has disclosed or secretly used
business secrets of a juridical or natural person which he
had come to knowledge of in relation to the execution of
his duties under the provisions of this law, he shall be
subject to penal servitude not exceeding two years or fine
not exceeding ¥ 2,000.
The provisions of the preceding clause shall apply
in case an officer or employee, or a person who has been an
officer or employee, of an organization or corporation es-
tablished for the purpose of controlling enterprises under
the provisions of Article 18, Paragraphs 1 or 3 or other
juridical person or other organization which administers
control by order on the basis of this law, has disclosed or
secretly used business secrets of a juridical or natural
person which he had come to knowledge of in relation to the
execution of his duties.
16 041 p58 bu

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
- 55 -
Article 46. When an officer or employee of an organiza-
tion or corporation established for the purpose of controlling
enterprises under the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1
or 3, or other juridical person or other organization which ad-
ministers control by order on the basis of this law, has re-
ceived or demanded or promised acceptance of, a bribe in con-
junction with his duties, he shall be subject to penal servi-
tude not exceeding two years. When the said person according-
ly has committed an improper act or has not committed a proper
act, he shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding
five years.
The bribe received in the case of the foregoing clause
shall be confiscated. If the whole or a part of it could not
be confiscated, its value shall be levied on the said person.
Article 47. A person who has given or offered or pro-
mised a bribe to the person mentioned in the preceding clause,
shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding two years
or a fine not exceeding ¥500.
When a person who has committed a crime under the pre-
ceding clause, has surrendered himself to justice, the penalty
may be mitigated or he may be remitted.
Article 48. When a representative of a juridical per-
son or proxy of a juridical or natural person or other employee
or other operative thereof has committed an offense under the
provisions of Article 31, Paragraph 2 to Article 34, Article
36, Paragraph 2, Articles 37, 38 or the fore part of Article
43, the said juridiçal or natural person shall be subject to
a fine or minor fine provided in each of the above Articles,
in addition to the punishment of the said offense.
Article 49. The provisions of the preceding Article
shall be applied to an act committed in land outside the ter-
ritories where this law is in force by a representative or
proxy or employee or other operative of a juridical person,
who has his headquarters or main business office within the
territories where this law is in force. The same shall also
apply to an act committed in land outside the territories
where this law is in force by a representative or employee or
other operative of a natural person, who has his domicile
within the territories where this law is in force.
The penalty provision of this law shall be applied to
a subject of the Empire who has committed a crime in land
outside the territories where this law is in force.
10 041 p59..bu

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
- 56 -
Artiole 50. The National General Mobilisation Commis-
sion shall be established to respond to inquires from the
Government regarding important matters relative to the en-
forcement of this law (exclusive of those pertaining to the
military rules).
Rules governing the National General Mobilisation Com-
mission shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinance.
Source:- Domei Tsushin Sha (The Overseas Department),
Wartime Legislation in Japan, Nippon Shogyo
Taushin Sha, Tokyo, 1941, p. 30-62
18 041 p60 bu

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
APPENDIX III
Major Provision of the Mupitions Company Act of October 28. 1943.
1. Under this law, munitions companies shall be those companies
that engages in enterprises nocessary (to supply) arms, air-
craft, warships, and other war materials, and shall mean those
designated by the Government, and the scope of the enterprises
in the preceding clause will be prescribed by order.
2.
Munitions companies, heeding the demands of the State for in-
creased fighting strength, shall conform to the plans of the
Government and shall assume responsibility in the operation of
enterprises pertaining to sufficiency in mmitions.
3. With regard to munitions companies, as fixed by the orders (of
the Government), bans and restrictions imposed by laws shall
be cancelled, obligations shall be removed, and also special
regulations may be enacted in connection with procedures for
permits, and so forth.
4. The Government, under the stipulations of these main points,
in cases when it is deemed necessary to issue orders or to take
measures, may, under the provisions of the orders, guarantee
assistance as well as profits to munitions companies.
5. Munitions companies must select a person responsible for pro-
duction from among the officials of the company. When
selection of a responsible person for production cannot be
made, the Government may appoint a person, in which case
the person appointed shall become an official of the com-
pany. The person responsible for production will represent
the mumitions company, and is appointed to the office for
the fulfillment of the obligations of increasing fighting
power.
6. The munitions company, without the approval of the Govern-
ment, may not dismiss the person responsible for production
who was selected by the Government. The Government will
designate to the munitions companies time, plans, quantities,
and other necessary matters, and may issue orders embraeing
the manufacture and repair of goode necessary for sufficient
war materials.
7. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue orders to munitions companies or take measures
for the establishment of new precautionary installations,
the acquisition, storage, and movement of basio materials,
10 041 p61 bu

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
-58-
the improvament of technique, the supervision of (trade) and
labor, and other matters necessary to carry on the enterprise.
8. The Government may issue orders necessary for cooperation
between the munitions company and those (persons) connected
with carrying on the operation of cooperating factories,
and subs diary factories, and other enterprises which the
munitions company conducts.
9. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue to munitions companies orders necessary in con-
nection with the taking over or taking custody of enter-
prises, the clarification (of articles of trust), or changes
in the articles of incorporation, the delegation, transfer,
or discontinuing or suspension of operations, (and) the trans-
fer of equipment or (patent rights) belonging to an enter-
prise.
10. The Government may restrict or ban the munitions company
from engaging in operations other than those designated by
the Government.
ll. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue orders necessary in connection with the amalgama-
tion or dissolution of munitions companies.
12. The Government, in accordance with the stipulations of the
orders, may issue orders to munitions companies necessary
to effect the adjustment and management of funds.
13. Persons res,onsible for production, or persons in charge
of production, in accordance with the provisions of the
orders, have the right to recruit workers as provided by
the National Mobilization Law.
14. The staff and employees of munitions companies will be under
the orders of the person responsible for production, or the
person in oharge of production.
15. The Government may issue orders to mmitions companies, or
take necessary measures regarding supervision.
16. With regard to the business matters of munitions companies,
the Government may gather reports, as well as inepect or
examine them.
16.041 p62 bu

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
- 59 -
17. When the person responsible for production, or the person
in charge of production, does not fulfill his responsibility,
or when the staff und other employees of the munitions com-
pany do not obey the orders of the persons responsible for
production, or the persons in charge of production, the
Government, in accordance with the provision of the order,
will find the means of imposing the nocessary punishment.
18. Necessary penal regulations shall be enacted.
19.
These main points may be applied to companies other than
those engaged in the enterprises set forth in the first
clause.
16 041 p83 bu

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.99)
- 60 -
APPENDIX IV
ACTIVITIES OF THE MUNITIONS SUPERINTENDENCE BUREAUS OF
THE MINISTRY OF MUNITIONS (ABSTRACT)
1. The vigorous activities of the Munitions Superintendence
Bureaus.
The Munitions Superintendence Bureaus were formed with
the establishment of the Mumitions Ministry to undertake
the responsibility of increasing production. The law
provides that the Minister of Munitions shall establish
local or branch offices or the Ministry, whenever necessary
to divide the affairs of supervisions, control and manage-
ment of munitions factories and enterprises. And the mni-
tions officials or mmitions superintendence officials shall
become the chiefs of local and branch offices of the Min-
istry. The primary purpose of establishing such local
offices is to control the munitions industry without a
single gap throughout the country and to push forward the
industry with an over-all efficiency.
Under the above provision of law, local offices are located
in Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Niigata, Osaka, Hiroshima,
Matsuyama, and Fukuoka to divide the affairs of munitions
production in nine, (later eight areas) through the coun-
try. The Munitions Superintendence officials in these
nine areas consist of former industrial staff members of
Commerce and Industry Ministry, Mining Superintendent Bureau
Officials, Labor Buriau Officials of Public Welfare Ministry
and Army and Navy Officials. The Munitions Superintendence
Chief shall direct all the officials in their supervision
of munitions production by distributing them to essential
factories and plants.
II. Special characteristics of the administration.
The special characteristics of Mhunitions Superintendence
Bureaus administration are as follows:
1) The unification of administration. The Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus and its officials are in charge
of the unified administration of production throughout the
country. They control capital, management, labor, price,
raw material distribution and motive power. Formerly
these were divided into ministries and departments.
2) The principle of production-first. Previously, the
industrial administration was divided according to the
legal rights of control and the actual work of production.
16 041 p64 bu

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.99)
-61-
But the activities of the officials are not bound to such
divisions but the actual control and direction of produc-
tion. All activities are centered in the principle of
production-first.
3) The motivating characteristic. Compared with the
previous administration, the Munitions Superintendence
Bureaus has a more unified and wider scope of administra-
tion and management of munitions production which is typical
in wartime. It is richer in motivating power and creative
leadership.
III. The structure of the Munition Superintendence Bureaus.
1) The General Affairs Section plans a unified arrange-
ment and control of labor and defense affairs.
2) The First Superintendent Section controls airoraft
production and its related weapons and machines.
3) The Second Superintendent Section undertakes the affairs
of machines, steel, light metals, chemicals and fuel that
were handled formerly by the old Commerce and Industry Min-
istry.
4) The Finance Section controls capital arrangement,
management, prices and price accounting.
5) The Zlectric Power Section undertakes the affairs of
electric power and bydro-electric power.
The scope of each of these sections is wider. For inst-
ance, the Electric Power Section controls not only the
electric utilities of munitions factories and plants but
it controls the use of electricity in all places including
the use of electricity in therares. The First and Second
Superintendent Sections control a narrower scope than that
of the Electric Power Section but in essence they control
the most significant domains of aircraft and raw material.
IV. Problems that need to be adjusted.
The problems that confront the administration of the de-
partment are es followa:
1) Those that confront the munitions companies with their
responsibilities for production and the Munitions Superin-
tendence Bureaus.
16 041 p65 bu

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
- 62 -
2) Those relative to general local administration.
3) Those relative to controlled factories under the
Army and Navy Ministries.
First, the munitions companies are responsible for pro-
duction and the Superintendence Bureau officials are respon-
sible for the arrangement of production. It is natural
that some problems result from this relationship of pro-
duction and arrangement by the different bodies. But the
munitions companies must understand that they are designated
and assigned by the Government for production responsibility
while the Munitions Superintendence Bureaus officials are
appointed to give a hand in directing and guiding and to
encourage work in the plants. However, the orders of the
Munitions Ministry create a double responsibility. Thus,
for the second time, the 424 companies that have been under
the control of Ministries of Munitions, Army, Navy and
Transportation have been brought under the direct control
of Munitions Superintendence Bureaus to avoid a double re-
sponsibility and to make a complete unification. All of
the 424 munitions companies which were designated by the
law of munitions companies are to be supervised by the
Superintendence Bureaus under the direction of the Govern-
mont.
16.041 p60 bu

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
- 63 -
V. Characteristic differences.
Under the law of munitions companies, the designated companies
became munitions companies that must be operated under the orders of
the Government and the production responsibility is assigned to the
presidents of the different companies. Superintendent officials are
sent to the actual places of operation, factories and plants, to give
all possible means of encouragement, direction and guidance in
production. Naturally the factory or plant owners have their own
production responsibilities but when the superintendent officials
express strong opinions as to how production should be or what manage-
ment should be, dissentions may occur. However, it is fortunate that
dissentions do not exist at all in the factories and plants because
the fundamental principle of production-first lies deeper in the
minds of producers and superintendent officials. The one goal is
the same because the supreme order comes from the Ministry of Munitions.
Second, problems relative to the Superintendence Bureaus and
local administrations cannot be denied. A local factory that belongs
to a local administration must also belong to the administration of
Superintendence Bureaus which would create a double responsibility
for a local factory. But the presence of Superintendence officials
is in the local factories, cements the relationship and results in
inseparable connections between local and central administration.
The Superintendence Bureaus Chief represents all local administra-
tions at conferences so that the direction and supervision of super-
intendent officials in localities will bring a closer connection
between the central and local administrations. Here again, the most
significant point of munitions production comes under the principle
of "The nation itself is the munitions production." The logical
differences are not the real problems.
Third, the problems relative to the Army and Navy controlled
factories and the supervision of the superintendent officials are
brought up. Logically there will be difficulty in the double super-
vision by both over the one aim of production. But in reality, the
arrangement of Superintendence Bureaus for production is done by the
same officials of the Army and Navy Ministries. These officials are
the same officials of both the Superintendence Bureau and of the
Army and Navy.
SOURCE: - Diamond June 11, 1944.
16 041 p67 bu

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
-64-
APPENDIX V
MAJOR INDUSTRIES ORGANIZATION ORDINANCE 1/
Juyo Sangyo Dentai Rei)
(August 29, 1941)
CHAPTER I: General Rules
Article 1 --
This ordinance provides for the control of organizations
established for the purpose of controlling major industries. The
kinds of major industries (subject to this ordinance) are cited
in Article 18 of the National General Mobilisation Law, (including
those industries referred to in Imperial Ordinance No. 317 of 1938).
Exceptions will be made for the enterprises for which separate
provisions are to be established.
Article 2 --
A Cabinet decree shall determine which major industries
are subject to this ordinance.
Article 3 --
The organizations established under the provisions of this
ordinance are called Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and Control
Associations (Tosei-Kumiai).
Any Control Society or Control Association, in designating
its title, shall use the characters for Control Society (
or Control Association (
). An exception (as to the use of
the character) may be made when the permission of the competent
Minister is obtained.
CHAPTER II: Control Society (Tosei-Kai)
Article 4 --
For the purpose of developing the national economic power to
the highest point the Control Society shall aim at promoting the
control and management of industry concerned; and the society shall
cooperate in carrying out national policy and the operation of the
industry concerned on national lines, according to the national policy.
1
The name of this Ordinance is alternatively translated as Key
Industries Organisation Control Ordinance.
10 041 p68 bu

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
-65-
Article 5 --
The control societies are to be established by kind of industry.
Article 6 --
In order to accomplish the purpose (for which they are
established) the control societies shall perform the following
functions:
(a) Plan with the government the national program for
production and distribution in the industry concerned;
the means of supplying the labor, raw materials, capital
and any other demands of the industry concerned.
(b) Control and guide production and distribution in the
industry concerned. Do the same for any enterprises
belonging to the industry concerned, which are under-
taken by the members and organizers of member organisa-
tions of the society.
(c) Provide for the complete equipping of the industry
concerned.
(d) Develop techniques, increase the efficiency, unify
the techniques of production, reform the management of
the industry concerned and of the institutions undertaken
by the members and the organisers of the member organisa-
tions for the development of the enterprises belonging
to the industry concerned.
(e) Make investigation of and do research work for the
industry concerned.
(r)
Make investigations of the enterprises undertaken by
the members and organizers of the member organisations
of the industry concerned.
ment of the purpose of the Control Society besides
those mentioned above.
Article 7--
Those who are qualified to be members of a Control Society
and ere subject to appointment by the competent Minister are as
follows:
(a) Those who are engaged in the industry concerned.
(b) Organisations established by those who are engaged in
the industry concerned.
16 041 p69 bu

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
-66-
(c) Organizations composed of those members mentioned in
Section (a), and organizations composed of the organisa-
tions mentioned in Section (b).
Article 8 --
When the competent Minister intends to establish a control
society he shall order those who have the qualifications for member-
ship, as previded in the preceding article, to organise a control
society in accordance with the provisions of a Cabinet decree.
When there is the order from the competent Minister to establish
a control society in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, a general organizational meeting shall be called in
accordance with the provisione of the Cabinet decree. After considera-
tion of the Cabinet decree the meeting shall decide the articles of
the society and the necessary matters to establish the control
society. Approval of the society must then be obtained from the
competent Minister.
Article 9 --
The following matters shall be written in the Articles of the
control society.
(a) Purpose.
(b) Title.
(c) Location of the office.
(a) Regulations concerning members.
(@) Regulations concerning officials.
(f) Regulations concerning meetings.
(g) Regulations concerning accounts.
Article 10--
The existence of a control society becomes effective when the
approval mentioned in Paragraph 2, Article 8 is obtained, or when
the Articles of the Society are drawn up in accordance with the provisions
of Paragraph 3, Article 18 of the National General Mobilization Law.
The competent Minister shall announce the purpose of establishing
the control society and its articles when the approval mentioned
in the preceding paragraph is obtained.
16 041 p70 bu

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
-67-
Article 11 --
When a control society is established all those who have the
qualifications for membership are made members of the control society.
Articlo 12--
The following officials shall be appointed in a control
society.
(a) President - one
(b) Directore - several
(e) Inspectors - several
(d) Members of the board of trustees - several
Two vice-presidents or less in addition to the officials
mentioned in the preceding paragraph and one chief-director may be
appointed in a control society depending on the Articles of the society.
Article 13 --
The president represents the control society. He controls
and guides the industry concerned and manages all the affairs of the
society.
The vice-presidents asaist the president. The (first) vice-
president, according to the sequence of the vice-presidents previously
decided by the president, substitutes for the president when he cannot
fulfill his duties. When the president's seat is vacant, the (first)
vice-president performs the official duties of the president.
The Chief Director assists the president and the vioe-presidents
in managing the affairs of the society. The chief director substitutes
for the president and the vice-presidents if they are not able to
fulfill their duties. He performs the official duties of the president
if the seats of the president and the vice-presidents are vacant.
The directors assist the president, the vice-presidents and
the Chief Director, and they manage the affairs of the society accord-
ingly. The (first) director, in accordance with the sequence of the
directors previously arranged by the president, substitutes for the
president in case the president, the vice-presidents and the Chief
Director are not able to fulfili their duties. He performs the
official duties of the president if the seats of president, of the
vice-president and the Chief Director are vacant.
16 041 p71 bu

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
- 68-
The inspectors investigate the financial conditions of the
control society.
The members of the Board of Trustees give their opinions to
enquiries made by the president.
Article 14 -
The competent minister appoints the president of a society
from among those suggested by the nominating comittee.
The competent Minister appoints members of the nominating
committee from among those who have had experience with or have made
special studies on the industry concerned.
The president appoints the vice-presidents, the chief-director,
the directors and the members of the Board of Trustees from those
who have had experience with or have made special studies on the
industry concerned.
Members of the board of trustees elect the inspectors in
accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decree. The appoint-
ments of the vice-presidents, the chief-director and the directors
have no effects unless the approval of the competent Minister is
obtained. When the competent Minister has given the approval as
provided im the preceding paragraph and has made the appointments
as provided in Paragraph 1, he ahall announce the facts.
Article 15 --
The terms of the officials of the control society are as
follows:
President
Three years
Vice-President
Chief-Director
Directors
n
Inspectors
Two years
Members of the Board
of Trustees
The president may discharge the vice-presidents, the chief-
director and the directors, even during their terms of office if he
considers this act to be necessary.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect umless the approval of the competent Minister is obtained.
The competent Minister shall announce the fact when he has
given his approval.
16 041 p72 bu

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
-69-
Article 16 --
The president, the vice-presidents, the chief-director and
the directors shall not be engaged in other official duties or in
commercial business. An exception may be made when the permission
of the competent Minister is obtained.
Article 17 --
The Control Society may give suggestions about matters related
to the industry to the ministers concerned with the industry.
The Control Society must give answers to the enquiries mede
by the ministers ooncerned with the industry.
Article 18--
The Control Society may request from the members and organisers
of the member organisations the submission of the necessary material
for the investigation of certain facts regarding the industry concermed.
Those who are requested to submit certain material, in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, mmst do
so immediately.
Article 19 --
The Control Society may levy upon the members assessments
as provided in the Articles of the Society.
Article 20 --
When any other assessment is necessary for the operation of
the enterprise, depending on the provisions of the Cabinet decree,
the Control Society may levy the assesament, other than those already
levied in accordance with the provisions of the preceding article.
The Control Society may levy the assessment upon the entire body or
a group of the members after the approval of the competent Minister
is obtained.
Article 21 -
The Control Society may levy fines, as .provided in the Articles
of the Society, upon those members who have violated the Articles or
the control regulations.
Article 22--
If there are people who fail to pay the assessments mentioned
in the articles 19 and 20, the Municipality (Shi), Town (Cho), and
Village (Son) may deal with the situation according to the regu ations
16 041 p73 bu

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
-70-
concerning the non-payment of tax in that locality, provided that the
Control Society has made a request to the authorities of the locality.
In such case the Control Society shall pay 4 per cent of the collected
amount to the city, town or village.
When there is no organized town or village, the corresponding
body in the locality shall take the place of the town and village
mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
The order of priority of claims for the assessments mentioned
in the provision of paragraph 1 is next to that of the municipality,
town, or village tax or to the corresponding tax system. The time
limitation for payment of this levy depends on the tax regulations
governing the municipality, town and city.
Article 23 --
The Control Society shall establish the control regulations
governing members and organizers of organizations having relations
with enterprises belonging to the industry concerned.
Article 24 --
Revisions of the Articles and establishment and revisions
of the control regulations shall not take effect until approved by
the competent Minister.
The competent Minister must announce the fact that he has
given the approval mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Article 25 --
The members and organizers of the member organizations of the
Control Society must act in accordance with the control regulations.
Article 26--
The Control society may have the officials and other employees
of the Society investigate the business affairs, financial conditions,
account books, establishments, and other property of the members or
of the organizers of the member organizations of the society if the
society considers it necessary.
The members and organizers of the member organizations of the
Control Society cannot reject, interfere, or evade the investigations
mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
16 041 p74 bu

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
-71-
When the Control Society has the officials and other employees
of the society make the investigation according to the regulations
of Paragraph 1, the control society must provide the investigators
with identification cards which shall certify their official positions.
Article 27--
When the conduct of directors or managers and other officers
who are in position to operate the business of the member corporations
and of corporations which organize the member associations, comes
under one of the following sections, and when they are considered
to be interfering with the control and management of the industry
concerned, the president of the control society of the industry
concerned may, with the approval of the competent Winister, order
the corporation to discharge the officials. The chief director of
a control association, which is a member of a control society, is
not subject to this regulation:
a. Then the ordinance, or the decisions based on the
ordinance by an administrative government office, is violated.
b. When the public welfare is jeopardized.
c. When the control regulations are violated.
Article 28 --
The president shall call the regular general meeting of a
Control Society once every year.
The president may call special general meetings at any time
if needed.
Article 29--
The president shall decide the following matters after con-
sultation at the general meeting:
a. Amendment of the articles of the society.
b. Budget
c. The method of levying the assessment provided in Articles 19
and 20.
Article 30--
The president shall prepare a business report and he shall
have the inspectors prepare a financial report of the control society.
Article 31--
The government's administrative office may summon the Control
Society, the members or the organizers of the member associations
16 041 p75 bu

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
-72-
to make their business reports whenever the office considers necessary;
this office may have the officials of the government administrative
office inspect the factories and other property concerned. They may
have the officials investigate the business condition, accounting
books, documents and other items according to the regulations of
Articles 31 of the National General Mobilization Law.
When the officials concerned are asked to make investigations
and inspections, they must possess the indentification cards certifying
their official position.
Article 32 --
The Ministers connected with a Control Society may demand that
the society investigate the business affairs of the industry concerned.
Article 33 --
The competent Minister may require the Control Society to
operate a needed enterprise or to alter the articles of the society,
and perform other functions when he considers such acts necessary
to control the operation of the industry concerned.
Article 34 --
The competent Minister may issue necessary orders to a Control
Society concerning the business and accounts of the society, and in
case of necessity, he may take over the management thereof.
The competent Minister may have the inspectors make a report
on the results of their investigation.
Article 35 --
The competent Minister may discharge the president when the
conduct of the latter violates the ordinances and the decisions
based on the ordinances, or damages the public interest and when he
considers the president unfit to control the industry concerned.
The competent Minister may discharge the vice-presidents,
chief director, directors, inspectors and the members of the Board of
Trustees when the conduct of these men violates the ordinances or
the decisions based on the ordinances, or when they damage the public
interest.
The competent Minister shall announce the fact when he has
discharged the president, vice-president, chief-directors or directors
according to the regulations of the preceding paragraph.
16 04L p76 bu

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
-73-
Article 36 --
The Control society may be dissolved by the orders of the
competent Minister.
The competent Minister must make the announcement of the fact
when he has given the order mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Chapter III
Control Association (Tosei - kumiai)
Article 37 --
The Control Association strives to control the management
of the industry concerned so as to develop most effectively the entire
economic power of the nation and to cooperate in carrying out the
national plan for the industry concerned.
Article 38 --
The Control association shall be organized by the kind of
industry in a given district.
The district mentioned in the preceding paragraph, except
in special cases, shall be determined in accordance with the division
of local administration, do, fu, ken, or two or more divisions of the
same.
Article 39 --
The control association shall undertake the following functions
in order to accomplish its aim:
a. Control and guide production and distribution of the
industry concerned in a given district; control and guide enterprises
undertaken by the members of the Association which belongs to the
industry concerned.
b. Provide for the equipping of the industry concerned in
a given district.
c. Develop techniques, increase efficiency, reform the
management and carry on other activities in the plants established
by the members for the development of the enterprises belonging to
the industry concermed.
d. Investigate and conduct research concerning the industry
in a district.
16 041 p77 bu

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-74-
e. Inspect the enterprises carried on by the members of
the Association.
f. Carry on the enterprises necessary to accomplish the
purpose of the Control Association in addition to the functions
mentioned in each precoding section.
Article 40 --
Those who are qualified for membership in the Control Association
are as follows and may be appointed by the competent Minister:
a. Those who are engaged in the industry concerned in a given
district.
b. Those organizations composed of people who are engaged
in the industry concerned in a given district.
c. The organizations composed of the organizations mentioned
in the sections (a) and (b); the organizations composed of the
organizations mentioned in the preceding section.
Article 41 --
When the competent Minister intends to have a Control Association
established, he shall order people who are qualified for membership
in the Control Association in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding article, to establish the association in a given locality
in accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decree.
Article 42 --
The following matters shall be stated in the Articles of
the Control Association:
a. Purpose.
b. Title.
District.
d. Location of the office.
e.
Regulations concerning the members of the Associations.
f.
Regulations concerning the enterprise and its operation.
g。
Regulations concerning officials.
h. Regulations concerning meetings.
i. Regulations concerning the treasury.
Article 43 --
The following officials shall be established in a Control
Association:
16 041 p78 bu

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
Chief Director --
one
Directors --
several
Inspectors --
several
Members of the Board of
several
Trustees --
Not more than two vice-chief directors may be established
in a Control Association depending on the provisions of the
articles of the association, in addition to the officials mentioned
in the preceding paragraph.
Article 44 --
The chief-director represents the Control Associations. He
controls and guides the industry concerned and operates the business
of the Association.
The president of a Control Society appoints the chief-director
of a Control Association, which is under the jurisdiction of the
former, from among those who have experience in or knowledge of
the industry concerned. When there is no connected Control Society,
the competent Minister appoints the chief director of a Control
Association from those persons who have experience in or knowledge
of the industry concerned.
The chief-director chosen in accordance with the provisions
of the first part of the preceding paragraph shall not take office
until the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
Article 45 --
The provisions of Paragraphs 2, and 4 to 6, Article 13 and
from Paragraph 3 to 5 of Article 14 are to be applied to the
vice-chief directors, directors, inspectors and trustee members of
the Control Association.
Article 46 --
The terma of the officials of the Control Association are
as follows:
Chief director --
3 years
Vice chief-directors --
Directors --
Inspectors --
2 years
Trustee members
The chief-director may dismiss the vice-directors or directors
of the Association during their terms of office if he considers this
act necessary.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
18 041 p79 bu

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
-76-
Article 47 --
The president of a Control society may dismiss the chief director
of a Control Aseociation when the latter's conduct violates the
ordinance or the decisions made by the administrative government in
accordance with the ordinance, or when the chief-director is considered
unfit for the control and management of the industry concerned.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
Article 48--
The Control Association may convene a general meeting of
representatives in accordance with the Articles of the Association;
this meeting to take the place of the general meeting.
Articles 28 and 29 are to be applied to the general meeting
of the representatives mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Article 49 --
The Control Association is required to register according
to the provisions of the Cabinet decree.
The items which should be registered according to the provisions
of the preceding paragraph, may not be applied to a third party unless
he has been registered.
Article 50 --
The regulations of Paragraph 2 of Article 8, of Articles
10, 11, 17 to 26 and 28 to 34, of Paragraph 1 and 2 of Articles 35
and also Paragraph 1 of Article 36 are to be applied to the Control
Association. The government's administrative office shall take the
place of the competent Minister and the ministers connected with the
industry concerned. Exceptions are made in the provisions of
Paragraph 2 of Article 10 and Paragraph 1 of Article 36.
Chapter IV
Miscellaneous Regulations
Article 51--
When the enquiries, reports, inspections, investigations and
orders concerned are of military importance, the Minister of Army
or Navy will take the place of the Ministers connected with the
industry concerned or the government's administrative office and the
competent Minister, mentioned in Paragraph 2 of Article 17,
10 041 p80 bu

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
-77-
Paragraph 1 of article 31, Article 32 (including the preceding
articles to which the mentioned provisions are applied) and Article 33
(including the preceding articles to which Article 33 is applied,
the same applying correspondingly to this article and Article 52).
When the Minister of Army or Navy intends to give an order
according to the regulations of Article 33 he must discuss the
matter with the authorized Minister of the Control Society or of the
Control Association.
Article 52 --
If the authorized Minister of a Control Society or of a
Control association intends to give an order under the provisions
of Article 33 he shall corfer with the Minister of Army or Navy
if the order concerned should affect military matters.
Article 53--
In Chosen, Taiwan, Karafuto and in the South Sea Islands
(hereinafter referred to as the "Outer-Territories") the Chosen
governor-general, the Taiwan governor-general, the heads of the
Karafuto government office and of the South Sea Islands Government
office shall take the place of the competent Minister, the Ministers
directly connected with the business concerned and the authorized
Ministers of the Control Society or of the Control Associations
mentioned in this ordinance.
In the case of a Control society composed of members who fall
under one of the sections of Article 7 and who live in the Outer-
Territories and of persons who live in Japan proper, the Chosen
Governor-general, the Taiwan government, the Heads of the Karafuto
government office and of the South Sea Islands shall take the place
of the competent Minister, the Ministers connected with the control
organizations concerned, and the authorized ministers of the Control
Society and Control Associations only if the cases are concerned with
the Outer-Territories regardless of the provisions of preceding
articles.
Articles 54-46: (omitted) Technical details of operation of control
mechanism in Outer-Territories.
Supplementary Rule:
This ordinance shall be enforced from the first of September, 194l.
Source: Horei Zensho (Complete Collection of Laws and Ordinances),
1941, pp. 612-620.
16 041 p81 bu

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
-78-
APPENDIX VI
"Imperial Ordinance covering amendments to the Essential
Industries Organizations Law (Juyo Sangyo Dantai Roichu Kaisei Chokurei)
dated July 4, 1945.
"(1)
In Article 1, under 'Control•, add the words, 'and the
necessary administration for it.'
"(2)
In Article 4, after the words, 'to contrive for the
carrying out od generalized control, 'and to
carry out the necessary administration for it.
"(3)
In order to achieve their objectives, the control associa-
tions will conduct the following tasks:-
"(a)
Participation in the Government planning regarding
production and distribution in the industries
concerned, and the demand and supply of materisl,
capital, and labor to be used in these industries,
and in otrer Government planning regarding the
industries concerned.
"(b)
Guidance of control regarding production and
distribution in the industries concerned; plso
guidance of control of enterprises affiliated
with such such industries which are run by (control
associasions) mombers or orgenizations of such
members.
"(c)
Firm establishment and adjustment of the industries
concerned.
"(d)
Cooperative purchasing of materials needed by
members of organizations of members in enterprises
affiliated with the industries concerned.
"(e)
Cooperative marketing of materi-ls produced by
such members of organizations in enterpriees
affiliated with the industries concerred.
"(£)
Cooperative calculation of the profit and loss
of affilieted enterprises.
"(g)
The making of provisions for the protection of
the enterprises affiliated with the industries
concerned, and for the welfare of the workers,
and other necessery provisions pertaining to
the operation of the industries concerned.
16 041 p82 bu

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
-79-
*(h)
) Inspection of the enterprises affiliated with the
industries concerned and the auditing of their
accounts.
"(1)
Providing for the development of affiliated
enterprises, by such means as improvement
of techniques, increase in efficiency, unification
of system, and reform in administration.
concerned.
"(k) Making plans other than contained in the above
clauses which are deemed necessary in carrying
out the objectives of the control associations
in their control of the industries concermed.
*(4) Clause 6 in Article 14, and Clause 4 in Article 15 will
be eliminated.
"(5) Clause 2, Article 22: By specification in the articles
of association, the president of a control association
may select a deputy (dairinin) who will have authority
to carry out, in place of the president, all judicial
or nonjudical matters in relation to the duties of the
business office of the control association.
"(6) A bona fide third party may not be opposed by application
of the limitations placed on the authority of the deputy
in the preceding clause.
"(7) Clause 2, Article 27: If the president sees that any
action is detrimental to the common interest being
carried out by a corporate member of the control associa-
tion of one of the industries involved, or by the secretary
or auditor of a corporation made of a group of members,
or by a member who audits the conditions of the (word
missing) assets, and if such action is found to be
espectially hindering in the enforcement of control,
then, upon the authorization of the Minister concerned,
the president can order the release of that person
through the corporation concerned.
*(8) Clause 3, Article 35, and Clause 2 of Article 36 will be
eliminated.
"(9)
 Clause 2, Article 36: It is necessary that the control
associations carry out a registration as specified by
these provisions.
16 041 p83. bu

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.99)
- 80 -
"(10) By the stipulation of the previous clause, if the
matters which should be registered are not those which
(word missing) after registration, this cannot be used
against a bona fide third party.
(11)
In Article 38 under 'Article 27' add "Part two of
Article 27'.
(12)
In the principle part of clause 3, in Article 41, change
the words 'or Article 27' to read (Article 27 or part
2 of Article 27). Make the same change in the conditional
clause of the same Article.
"By-Laws:- This ordinance will be enforced from the date
of promulgation. As for the registration which the
control associations must carry out within the definitions
of the enforcement of this ordinance, this will be
specified by a Cabinet ordinance." (Tokyo, DOMEI,
in Kana to G.E.A., July 3, 1945, 6:17 a.m. EWT).
18 041 p84 bu

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
- 81 -
APPENDIX VII
Transfer of Administrative Authority Law 1
(February 18, 1942, Law No. 15)
(Established in accordance with Article 18 of the National Total
Mobilization Law)
Article 1. Transfer of the government authorities.
The Government transfers to the Iron and Steel Control Society,
to the Coal Control Society and to other Control Societies (established
on basis of the Major Industries Organization Ordinance) National
Policy Companies to Corporations (Eidan) and to other organizations,
governmental authority to grant authorizations and permissions arising
from the provisions of the National Total Mobilization Law, the Exports
and Imports Temporary Management Law, and various other laws and regu-
lations, except the authority which belongs to the administrative policy
of the Government. Matters concerning allocations of production and
distribution, supply of materials, which are decided by imperial
ordinances, are to be conducted by the Control Organizations.
Article 2. Guarantee for execution of authority and the fixing of
official responsibility.
For the purpose of safe guarding the authority of the control
organizations, they are considered as government agencies. Any violation
of their orders is considered as a violation of the particular law or
regulation upon which their order is based. The officials of the control
organizations are considered as government officials, and any negligence
in fulfilling their duties is to be considered the same as negligence on
the part of government officials.
Article 3. Necessary matters related to the performance of the govern-
mental authorities by the Control Organizations will be decided by
Imperial ordinance.
Article 4. Date of enforcement will be decided by imperial ordinance.
Source:
Keizai Tosei-ho Nempo (Control Law Annual Report)
Series I Vol (January-March, 1942 pp. 38-40)
1/ This is an abstract based on an exposition of the law.
16 041 p85 bu

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
- 82 -
APPENDIX VIII
METAL INDUSTRY CONTROL SOC IETY (ABSTRACT)
The Metal Industry Control Society was established 15 Janusry
1942 to deal with metal goods and raw materials, such as electric
wire, copper, aluminum, magnesium and its compound, metal plates,
pipe, metal bars, wire and other metal articles. Twenty-seven
companies, two control unions and six industrial unions were desig-
nated by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry as members of the
society. The purpose of the sociaty is to plan a centralized con-
trol administration for the metal industry and to cooperate in
accomplishing the national industrial policy. Therefore, the con-
trol society has the right to participate in Government plans in
order to direct and adjust the business of all members of the
society.
The characteristics of the society are as follows: 1) The
members of the society are all industrial companies dealing with
electric wire, pressed wire and stretched wire. The electric wire
division and the pressed and stretched wire divisions deal with
copper and aluminum. There are two or three other member industries
which deal with different materials and goods in the society
2) The business of the society is its control of manufactured metal
goods, such as metal plates, pipes, bars and other metal articles.
The society is planning to investigate working conditions
of the factories at the end of November as a means of carrying out a
concrete control of all activities in the future.
Finance, technical labor, materials, production and South
Seas policy committees have been established to coordinate activities
of the members of the society and to conduct business effectively
for the members of the society.
The society is planning to work more closely with related
Government agencies and organizations for the purpose of establishing
an emergency control production plan in accordance with national
economic policies. For this reason, the Metal Pressing and Stretching
Supply Co., Inc. (Assen Kinzoku Haikyu Kabushiki Kaisha) and the
Electric Wire Supply Co., Inc., (Densen Haikyu Kabushiki Kaisha)
have established a rationalized distribution policy to society
members. The Metal Pressing and Stretching Supply Co. has been
directing all business activities and the Tosai Copper Sale Company
will start its business on 1 May 1942. The Electric Wire Supply Co.
will start its business on 1 August 1942.
The Society established the materials comnittee as a centralized
sunply consulting organization to direct the distribution of materials
to the members. The society plans to hold consultations on supply
and on procuring materials for the society members. Its concrete
policies are as follows:
16 041 pA bu

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-83-
1)
Investigaticn of the amount of essential materials in
stock. The society investigated the total amount of all
essential materials such as copper, aluminum, zinc, pig-
iron, lead, turpentine, carbon block, artificial silk
thread, cotton thread and zinc wire, in warehouses and
factories for the past year and the average quantity used
monthly in order to make good use of all materials.
2)
Complete control of all materials for local distribution.
The society is trying to control all materials such as
nails, steel wire, cement, machine oil, needles and
pocket ladgers for local distribution.
3)
Simplification of regulations. The society is planning
to simplify the regulations on the control of all materials.
4)
Application of left-over materials. The society is
planning to exchange materials among members to supple-
ment and make use of all materials in the warehouses.
An investigatlon card is now being worked out to check
on all materials on hand and to plan for their proper
use by society members in order to simplify all business
transactions for the society.
The technical committee of the Electric Wire and the Pressed and
Stretched Wire Divisions are cooperating in the following policies:
1) the investigation and research of factory establishments and their
techniques; 2) investigation of patents; 3) investigation of manu-
facturing efficiency; 4) standardization of goods, materials and
control regulations; 5) investigation of the needed quantities of
materials; 6) plans for standard plants; 7) research on improved
working techniques in factories, training in labor techniques,
development of working efficiency, establishing of prices, improv-
ment of technical administration and inspection of goods. The society
has completed technical inspection of 64 types of electric wires and
126 patents on pressed and stretched wire.
The society has been studying labor distribution, adninistra-
tion, wages, hours, welfare establishments and necessities for the
daily living of the workers in order to solve all important and urgent
problems connected with labor. The Prassed and Stretched Wire Division
is now studying the practical problems of labor distribution to
increase labor efficiency.
The society is now investigating the business condition of
society members to stren then and rationalize production, by utiliza-
tion of all metal industries' working efficiency and improving their
techniques.
The South Seas Policy Committee is working on a policy for
distributing necessary metals to places that need them in the South
Seas. The society is also preparing to investigate necessary labor,
16 041 p87 bu

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.97)
- 84-
fuel, and the required quantity of materials for the South Seas.
The control regulations of the Metal Industry Control Society
have not been approved because the business law which includes
approved of regulations for controls societies has not been established.
Regulations of the society will be approved around the middle of
September. Practical activities of the society are expected to start
immediately after approval of the regulations has been granted.
SOURCE: - Toseikai Nenkan, 1943 p. 149.
18 041 p88 bu

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
-85-
APPENDIX X
Control Regulations concerning Control Association of Hokkai
Warehouse Enterprises. The regulation is effective from
20 June 1944.
1. Control of warehouse enterprises, Article #14 of the Association
Regulation, will follow this Control Regulation.
2. Within two months of application, members must submit statement
containing the following items:
a. Resume of employer's personal history and financial
background.
b. Business regulation.
c. Sample of warehouse bonds.
d. Rates for storage, loading, and unloading.
e. Name and address of business office.
f. Chart of warehouse inspection.
g. Inspection chart indicating the state of management.
h. Statement of other business pesides the warehouse, owned
by the member.
3. Members must submit statement without delay to include:
a. Monthly report of articles received, released and remaining
in storage.
b. Unpaid monthly warehouse bonds.
c. Financial list of loans, business-reports, profits and
loss statements, also statements concerning the disposal
of profit.
d. Monthly report on utilization of warehouse.
e. Yearly repart of business conditions.
4. Members must report to the Association under the following circumstances:
a. When duties assigned to the Association are completed,
b. When business location or office is changed or when name
and address is abolished or changed.
c. When any regulation and exocutive personnel is changed.
18 041 p89 hu

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
-86-
d. When stock payment is collected and new stocks are issued.
e. When Warehouse Regulation Article #l is granted or annulled.
5. Members must submit certified documents concerning:
a. Handling, obtaining and conserving of necessity articles.
b. Hiring of labor and working conditions.
c. Methods of raising caoital.
6. When necessary, the Association shall reform management, promote
efficiency and carry on research for technical operations.
7. When necessary, the Association shall subsidize and contribute
money to improve conditions for its members.
8. In time of emergency or disaster, members must cooperate and take
measures to aid such victims.
9.
Members must obey the rules and regulations established by the
Associations.
10. All statements in documents submitted by members must be true
and accurate.
1l. After obtaining permission from Government, the Association may
•stablish, suspend, abolish, transfer, consign, entrust, or
combine the managements of various warehouse enterprises of its
members.
12.
Members cust report in advance concerning opening, abolishing,
transferring, uniting, or dispersing of their warehouse enterprises
to the Association.
13. When considered pecessary to control the Association, Government
may order and instruct the setting up of machineries, expanding
of warehouses, changing, suspending, transferring and renting
of members' enterprises.
14.
Members must report to the Association in advance on the purchasing
loading and unloading of machineries, establishing of warehouses,
enlarging of company, changing, suspending, abolishing and
transferring of business.
15. Whon considered necessary, the Association may make suggestions
on the weight and number of commodities handled and methods of
obtaining and conserving necessary articles.
16 041 p90 bu

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
- 87 -
REGULATION CONCERNING LABOR AND STORAGE:
16. Except in special cases, the Association may give permission
to receive goods for storage.
17. The Association may, when necessary, receive goods for storage,
under a joint contract but it may also give portions of goods
to other members for storage.
18. When the Association receives goods for storage under a joint
contract, it may distribute them to designated members. When
designated members receive the goods, they must perform their
duty according to regulations.
19. Designated members must agree to receive their quota of assignment
according to the rules of the Association, but when members
cannot accept the amount assigned them, they must give reasons
for not doing so and must report to the director and obtain his
approval.
20. When considered necessary, the Association may request any member
to accept for storage any assignment that it may give to the
member.
21. When necessary, the Association may transfer goods placed with
one member to another member as decided by the Chief Director.
22. When necessary, a conference may be held with the chief director
of the Association to discuss matters concerning the development
of warehouse enterprises:
a. To establish or purchase warehouses.
b. To decide on priority for receiving goods for storage.
c. To refuse or limit goods for storage.
d. To cancel contract for storage or to return goods.
e. To insure goods for storage.
f. To decide on methods of loading and unloading.
23. When necessary, the Association may direct the management of labor
and adjust the wages of labor.
24. The Association may decide on the forms of bonds or certificates
for warehouses.
16 041 p91 bu

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.97)
- 88 -
CONTROL OF RATES OR FEES FOR STORAGE:
25. The Association shall decide on the rates for storage and the
methods of loading and unloading. In special cases where rates
are increased or decreased, approval must be obtained by the
members from the Asscciation.
26. To improve warehouse enterprises, the Association may order a
part of the members or all of its members to accept special
rates for storage or rent for warehouses.
27. Members who accept the new rates may combine together in handling
the special rates and rent of warehouses.
28. Members desiring more detail on this regulation may obtain
further information from the director.
SOURCE: - Kampo, Jume 29, 1944.
16 041 p92 bu

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
- 89 -
Appendix X
Electrical Engineering Control Society in Japan (abstract)
The Electrical Engineering Control Society has been established in conform-
ity with the principle of national defense which deems it necessary to pro-
mote electrical engineering to its highest point of productivity.
This Society came into existence through the Important Enterprise Act of the
Japanese Government. The general headquarters of this society are in Tokyo, and.
branch offices may be established in various cities if the head of this Society
considers it necessary. Any announcement of the Society will be considered as an
official announcement.
The duties of the Control Society may be listed as follows:
1) To produce and allocate electric machinery in accordance with the
general economic plan of the Government.
2) To guide and supervise the production of and allocation of articles
made by member organizations.
3) To plan for the supply of raw materials, capital, manpower, fuel, and
other establishments.
4) To reorganize the whole system of electrical engineering and the
manufacture of electrical machinery.
5) To determine the prices of articles produced.
6) To devise means for the advancement of technique and efficiency in
electrical engineering.
7) To concern itself with matters of investigation and research.
The organization of the Control Society consists of one chief, one deputy
chief, one chairman of the board of directors, several directors, several super-
visors, and several advisors. The chief of the whole society is appointed by the
Minister of Commerce and Industry; the deputy chief, the chairman of directors,
the directors, and the advisors, are appointed by the chief on the basis of their
experience and academic background. The terms of tenure are: Three years for
the chief, deputy chief, chairman of the board of directors, and directors, and
two years for the supervisors and adviecrs.
The office of the advisors is mainly for giving advice to the chief who is
concurrently head of the advisory board. The board convenes at any time at the
suggestion of the chairman. The general affairs of the Control Society are han-
dled by the office of Administrative Affairs, the head of which is the chair-
man of the board of directors, who administers under the guidance and supervision
10 041 p93 bu

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
- 90 -
of the chief of the Control Society. The Office of Administrative Affairs
maintains the following 5 departments:
1) The department of general affairs.
2) The department of electricity.
3) The department of communications.
4) The department of natural resources.
5) The department of investigation.
Toseikai Nenkan, Tokyo, February 1943, pp. 177-185.
16 041 p94 u

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
-91-
Appendix XI
Electric Machine Control Sooiaty (Abstract).
CHAPTER I
Article l. To cooperate in the realization of the imperial
policy in regard to the maintenance of the elec-
tric machine business, the sociaty shall aim at
establishment of an electric business which will
secure the sale and manufacturing of electric
machines, such as: steam engine boiler, steam
engine turbines, water turbines, and telegraph
instruments.
Article 2. The Socisty shall be established according to tha
Important Industry Corporation Law and shall be
called the Electric Machine Control Society.
Article 3. The head office shall be in Tokyo. If the pres-
ident deems it necessary, branch offices shall
be established in important cities.
Article 4.
The announcement of different matters of the
Society shall be made through the official
gazette.
CHAPTER II
Article 5. The Society shall be composed of members who are
in the business of electric machines and in cor-
porations organized by electric machine business
enterprisers. The Minister of Commerce and In-
dustry shall have the right of designating mem-
bers to this society.
CHAPTER III
Business and its practices
The following items shall be practiced to accom-
plish the aim of the society.
A. The socisty shall participate in the government
plan for the supply and distribution of motor
power, fuel, labor, power, and capital equipment
for the electric machine business.
B. The society shall control and supervise matters
concerning the production and distribution of
electric machines.
16 041 p05 bu

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
-92-
C.
The society shall control and supervise the sup-
ply and distribution of necessary data for the
various electric machine business and enterprises.
D.
The Society shall manage the problems of security
and arrange the systems for the electrio machine
business.
E.
The society shall manage matters concerning the
price of electric machines.
F.
The Society shall standardize electric goods, im-
prove administration, promote efficiency, and
olevate technical skill in connection with the
electric machine business.
G.
The Society shall conduct research and investiga-
tion pertaining to electric machine business.
H.
The Society shall investigate the business of the
members and members' corporations
I.
The Society shall handle other necessary matters
that are related to the accomplishment of the aims
of the sciety.
Article 7.
The control over the business of the members or
members' corporation shall be done according to
fixed control regulations.
Article 8.
Special business matters of the Society shall
be conducted separately.
CHAPTER IV.
Officials
The Society shall have the following officials:
one president, one chairman of the board of di-
rectors, a few directors, a few inspectors, a
few councillors. If necessary, the society shall
have one vice-president.
Article 10.
The president shall control and supervise the
business of electric machines on behalf of the
Society. The vice-president shall assist the
president and in the president's absence he
16 041 p96 bu

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.99)
-93-
shall act for the president.
Article 11.
The president shall be appointed directly by
the Minister of Commerce and Industry. The
president shall choose men of experience for
the other offices with the approval of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Only the
inspectors shall be elected on the agreement of
more than half the councillors.
Article 12.
The terms of office shall be as follows: president
3 years; vice-president, 3 years; chairman of the
board of directors, 3 years; members of the board
of directors, 3 years; inspectors, 2 years; and. coun-
cillors, 2 years.
Article 13.
The president, vice-president, chairman and
members of the board of directors shall not
participate or undertake any other business
without the approval of the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry.
CHAPTER V.
Article 14.
Meetings shall be of two kinds, general and com-
mittee meetings.
Article 15.
The general meetings shall be of two kinds,
regular general meetings and temporary general
meetings.
Article 16.
The president shall make decisions on the follow-
ing matters with the approval of a general meeting:
A.
Changes in the articles of the Society;
B.
Budget and income expenditure;
C.
Method of collocting taxes.
Article 17.
The president shall report on the business of
the society and he shall have the inspectors
report on financial metters of the society.
Article 18.
Committee Meetings shall be held whenever the
president deems it necessary. The president
16 041 p97 bu

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
-94-
shall preside as chairman of the comittee
meetings.
CHAPTER VI
Bureau of Business:
Article 19.
A business bureau shall be established in the
society to manage the business affairs.
Article 20.
The cheirman of the board of directors shall
control and manage the business bureau under
the direction of the president.
Article 21.
The regulations concerning the officials and
employees shall be made up seperately.
Article 22. The society shall impose a tax upon the members.
Article 23.
The society shall get the approval of the Min-
1ster of Commerce and Industry, whenever the
Society has new business. to deel with. When-
ever necessary the Society shall impose a
special levy upon its members.
Article 24.
The levy shall be collected according to the
special regulations set for taxes.
Article 25. The fiscal year slall begin on 1 April and
end on 3l March of the following year.
CHAPTER VIII
Dissolution and liquidation.
Article 26. Dissolution of the Society shall be made by
the order of the Minister of Commerce and
Industry.
Article 27. The liquidator shall be chosen by the court
of justice which shell be served the notice
by the Minister of Commerce and Industry.
Article 28.
The liquidator shall have the right of manag-
ing the liquidation on behalf of the Society.
Article 29.
The liquidator shall decide on the method of
liquidation and property disposition.
16 041 p98 bu

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
-95-
Article 30. Even after a dissolution, if it is found nec-
essary, the Society shall collect any necessary
levy from the members with the approval of the
court, to settle the debts of the Society.
CHAPTER XV
Fine for violating the regulations.
Article 3l. Any member who violates these regulations shall
be charged with a fine of 5,000 yen.
SOURCE: -
Toseikai Nenkan, 1943, Part II, 177-180
16 041 p99 bu

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
- 96 -
Appendix XII
Abstract of Regulations Governing the Establishment of a
Warehouse Control Society (Effective 1 May 1944).
In order to increase transportation efficiency and
to harmonize the distribution of essential resourcas, the
proposal to establish the Warehouse Control Society was
presented by the Minister of Transportation, that this estab-
lishmant should be rushed by appointing a connittee to pre-
pare and to finish within the month of April so as to operate
it from 1 May.
I. The Establishment of Control Society.
1) Control Society should be established in order to
control general warehouses of six great harbors.
2) The affairs of control society should be of enter-
prising warehouse business. New equipment may be arranged to
protect warehouses and their establishment with the headquarters
in Tokyo and branch offices in important areas.
3) Private Warehouses or business warehouses should be
rented or commissioned as ordared by the control society.
4) The readjustment order should be issued by the control
socioty when warehouse is to be rented.
5) Official or public warehouses will be lent to the
control society.
6) The Control Society should arrange with the Japan Harbor
Transpartation Association, small scale land transportation busi-
ness, and exchange corporations to maintain closer mutual connec-
tions.
II. The establishment of Control Union and Control Society.
1) In the district zones under local administrative
society, Control Union should be organized in parallel with the
Control Society. The function of this union should be to under-
take the control activities of warehouse business under the
established regulations of commercial union.
2) Under the readjustment of control sociaty and control
union, the whole nation's warehouse business may be controlled
when the essential industry demands it.
10 041 p100 bu

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.99)
-97-
3) The president of Control Society automatically
becomes the head of all control associations and he selects other
personnel of the society.
4) The Control Society should encourage cooperation
among all warehouse businesses in order to inorease tne efficiency
of transportation power to insure the complete unification or
harbor transportation and all small scale land transportation
business.
III.
The Purposes of Warehouse Control Society.
1) To bring the maximum efficiency of transportation
to the six great harbor warehouses and to decrease the procrastination
of harbor freight work.
2) To enlarge the utility of sea routes for unified and
carefully planned transportation.
3). To see that the warehouse business men do not keop
or distribute too freely the essential resourcee, but manage them
under the orders of the control society. In addition, to protect
the essential resources from the danger of enemy air raids.
4) To unify the regulatioms of small scale land
transportation as of 1938, and of sea transportation as of 1940,
so that the function personnel and enterprise of transportation
may be closely connected and thorough.
The control society becomes the legal owner of all six
great harbor warehouses and the control society acts under the orders
of the Government in distribution and custody of the essential goods.
The Warhouse Control Society shall be operated from
1 May, with the capital of 20,000,000 yen. If 1t 1s necessary for
a central organization to control a nation-wide association, the
Government will act upon it.
16 041 p101 bu

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
-98-
APPENDIX XIII
Control of Electrical Engineering Industries
The nine electric power distribution companies of the
country are under the complete control of the state but there
has been no particular control over the 5,0o0 electrical en-
gineering industries for the nime electric power distribution com-
panies and their consumers. Their work is to connect elec-
tric lines to the homes and make small extension lines.
The Eleetric Bureau of the Ministry of Munitions is
now going to systematize the 5,000 electrical engineering in-
dustries by aiming at the following items:
1) Efficient utilization of labor and materials.
2)
Closer cooperation between the engineering indus-
tries and the nine companies.
3)
Absolute security for controlling the electric
lights during an air raid.
4)
Mobilization of employees for defense during an
air raid.
The essential points for adjusting the electrical
engineering industries are as follows:
1) To establish nine electrical engineering indus-
try stock companies or one to each area in which
the nine electric power distribution centers are
located.
2)
To organize local control associations, which will
be made up of electrical engineering stock com-
panies in each district, such companies must have
more than 20 engineers and their engineering con-
tracts must add up to more than 100,000 yen a year.
3)
To organize a central control society whose members
will be the local control associations and electrical
engineering industries whose contracts add up to
more than 1,000,000 yen a year and whose employees
consist of more than l000 people.
4)
To reorganize the present electrical industry associations
according to the area in which they are located.
5) To require the local control associations to become
18 041 p102 bu

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.97)
-99-
members of the local civil Engineering construc-
tion control association, and to require the Cen-
tral Electric Control Society to become a member
of the Japan Civil Engineering Construction Con-
trol Society.
SOURCE:
Mainichi Shimbun
(Tokyo) 4 April, '44.
10 041 p10s bu

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
- 100 -
Appendix XIV
Abstract of Regulations on Lumber and Charcoal Production.
1) The local governor shall designate the acreage of
standing trees to be cut, the time for cutting the trees, the
time for the sale of the lumber and other necessary items for
the process of cutting down trees on the mountains.
2) Also the local governor shall record the place and
acreage of the standing trees, the time of the cutting, the
price and time of the sale of such lumber and other necessary
items in the document of his order for cutting down the trees.
3) The ceiling price of the standing trees shall be
the same as the ceiling price stated in the seventh article
of the Price Control Order, which is the price of lumber with
all the expenses of cutting, shipping and other labor excluded.
4) Local governor shall designate the time, the methods
of production and other necessary items in his order for char-
coal production, and he shall also designate the time, price
quantity, time of shipping, place of shipping and other nec-
essary items in his order for the sale of charcoal.
5) The Charcoal Supply Adjustment Regulation will
be abolished and this order shall become effective 29 June
1944.
SOURCE: Kampo, 29 June 1944.
10 041 p104 bu

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
-101 -
Appendix XV
Pit Wood Control Aasociation
The Pit Wood Control Association (Komoku Tosei Kumiai)
was established in Northern Kyuahu and started its control
business transactions 1 July 1944 in order to 1) control the
supply of wood used for supports in order to fill the demands
of coal miners in 20 prefectures around Northern Kyushu, 2) lower
the expenses of the wood producers, 3) establish a sum of
7,500,000 yen as an encouragement fund to belp wood producers
transport their wood from the place of production to the con-
sumer and distribute all necessary working materials to the
wood producers. Three-fifths of the coal produced in Japan
comes from this area.
The establishment of a Pit Wood Control Sociaty has
been expected in Hokkaido, Eastern Japan and Caka since the
establishment of this association in Kyushu.
SOURCE: Asahi Shimbun, 16 July 1944.
16 041 p105 bu

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
-102-
Appendix XVI
Regulations of the Woolen Goods Control
Society
I. General Regulations
1)
The Purpose of this society shall be to support
the national policy of controlling all woolen
goods business in order to strengthen the
national economic system.
2)
This society shall be called the Woolen Goods
Control Society and shall be based on the Decree
of Essential Industry.
3)
The headquarters of this society shall be located
in Tokyo and branch offices shall be established
in other cities.
4)
The announcement of this society shall be revealed
in the gezette.
II. Members
5)
This society shall be composed of all woolen busi-
ness firms which have been approved by the Minister
of Commerce.
III. Work and its execution
6)
In order to fulfill the aim of regulation No. 1
the following work shall be done by members:
a) To aid the government in acquiring
material, capital and labor for the
increase of wool production.
b) To direct and control the production and
distribution of the woolen industry.
c) To control the supply of capital, mate-
rial and labor for the woolen industry.
d) To fix the price for woolen goods.
e) To promote planning the woolen indus-
try.
To improve the skill and to increase
the efficiency of the woolen industry.
16 041 P106 bu

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
-103 -
g)
To make surveys ánd do research con-
cerning the woolen industry.
h) Besides the above items, other nec-
essary works for the benefit of this
society will be required.
7) Control regulations of this society shall be
recognized by the Minister of Commerce.
The president shall consult with the councillors
in order to formulate control regulations.
8) Essential affairs of this society shall be ex-
ecuted by the president.
IV. Officers
9) This society shall have one president, one chief
director and a certain number of directors, super-
intendents and councillors.
10) The president shall be recommended through a mom-
ber of the Civil Service Committee and shall be
appointed by the Ministry of Commerce.
The chief director and directors shall have good
knowledge of and experience in the woolen indus-
try and their appointments shall be approved by
the Minister of Commerce.
Councillors and superintendent should have ex-
perience in the woolen industry and their ap-
pointments shall be approved by the president.
11)
The appointments of the president, the chief
director and the directors shall be for three
years each and of the superintendents and coun-
cillors, two years each. If the president wishes
to resign during his incumbency his resignation
shall be approved by the Minister of Commerce.
12) The president, the chief director and directors
cannot engage in other business except with the
approval of the Minister of Commerce.
13) The president shall direct and control all essential
16 041 p107 bu

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
-104-
affairs of the woolen industry and other activities
related to this society.
The chief director and directors shall assist the
president in all works and act for him in his ab-
sence.
Superintendents shall examine and audit the finan-
cial status of this society.
Councillors shall answer and give opinions to, the
president upon request.
V. Conferences
14) There are two kinds of conferences, namely:
general conference
b)
councillors conferences.
The general conference shall be composed of all
members of this society while the councillors
conference shall be composed of only the coun-
cillors of this society.
15) There are also two kinds of general conferences
namely:
a) ordinary conference
b) emergency conferences
The ordinary conference shall be held in May
of each year, while an emergency conference
may be called whenever it is needed. Confer-
ences shall be called by the president.
16) The president shall consult all members at the
conference concerning any change in the regu-
lations or the financial budget of the society.
17) At the annual ordinary conference the president
shall report on all affairs and conditions and
the superintendents shall report on the finan-
cial statements of the society.
18) A councillors conference may be called at the
will of the president. The president shall be
the chairman of the councillor's conference.
16 041 p108 bu

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
-105-
VI. Bureau of General Affairs
19) A Bureau of General Affairs shall be set up to
handle all general affairs of this society.
20) The chief director shall be the head of the
Bureau of General Affairs and shall be under
the direction and supervision of the president.
21) Several departments shall be created in the Bu-
reau of Affairs and they shall be headed up by
the diractors.
VII. Accounting
22) The fiscal calender of this society shall be
from April 1 of one year to March 3l of the
following year.
23) All members shall pay a membership fee.
The membership fes and the method of collecting
it shall be determined by the president. He
shall consult members opinions.
VIII. Dissolution and Liquidation
24) This society may be dissolved by the order of
the Minister of Commerce.
25) The liquidator shall be selected by the court.
26) The liquidator shall have full authority to
represent this society.
27)
The liquidator shall determine the method of
liquidating and handling property which shall
be approved by the court.
IX. Penalty
28) A member who violates the general regulations
of this society shall be fined not more than
5,000 yen.
16 041 p109 bu

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.97)
- 106 -
29) A member who violates the control regulations
of this society shall be fined not more than
10,000yen.
SCURCE:
Toseikai Nenkan (Control Society Year Pook)
Tokyo, p. 271, Februery 10, 1943.
26 041 p110 bu

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
-107-
Appendix XVII
The Control Regulations of the Japan Bicycle Control
Society (Abstract)
Chapter I General Rules.
Article 1. The control of the bicycle business by
the members of the Society is regulated
according to the following regulations
supplementing the order, established by the
Society.
Article 2. To control the production and distribution
of the Society periodically, a year is
divided into 4 periods. The first period:
April to June. The second period: July
to September. The third period: October
to December. The fourth period: January
to March.
Article 3. In this regulation of the Society, Manu-
facturer" means a manufacturer as a member
of the Society; wholesale merchant means
a wholesaler of the Society; the Affiliated
Association means an affiliated association
acting as the distribution adjustment con-
trol society of the city, province, urban
prefecture, and prefecture.
Chapter II Production Control.
Article 4. The manufacturer shall not manufacture bi-
cycles or their accessories, nor shall he
do remaking, without having permission from
the Society.
The manufacturer shali not manufacture the
articles that are not registered in the
Society Members' Directory.
Article 5. By the approval of authorities concerned,
the Society shall decide on the number of
bicycles to be manufactured and the arti-
cles for repair use. The Society shall
direct the manufacturer accordingly.
Article 6.
Those who desire to be engaged in bicycle-
remaking business shall apply for the ap-
proval of the Society.
10 041 p111 bu

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
-108-
The application shall cover the following
points:
a) Indication of the amount of material,
and indication of the dealer from
whom the material should be purchased.
b)
Indication of the amount of used mate-
rials, the process planned, and amount
of material to be abandoned.
c)
Amounts and kinds of the materials
which are to be apportioned to dif-
ferent workers for remaking.
d)
) The authentication by the purchasing
parties concerned is to be presented.
Article 7.
The members of the Society shall register
the following equipment:
a) Machine and electric motors.
b) Storehouses
c) Stores
Article 8.
The Society shall have the right of restricting
the equipment listed under the previous items.
Article 9.
The Society shall designate the dealer
from whom the manufacturer is to purchase
the materials.
Artiole 10. The Society shall prepare the steel and
other materials for distribution before
directing each member to manufacture bi-
cycles.
Article ll. The Society shall take a special consider-
ation concerning the following items in
regard to the records of individual members.
But the Society shall act accordingly when
there is a special direction by the author-
ities concerned.
16 041 p118 b=

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.99)
 - 109 -
a) Actual results of production capacity
of an individual factory.
b) Convenience of packing and transporta-
tion.
c) Grade and quality of the manufactured
goods.
d) The result of the consignment of goods.
Article 12. Manufacturer shall not refuse the order for
manufacturing after the order was given,
without having a special reason.
Article 13. Manufacturer shall present the manufactured
bicycles within the designated period.
Article 14.
Manufacturer shall not make use of mate-
rials for any other purpose than the de-
signated one.
Article 15. Manufacturer shall not ship the bicycles
without having them examined by the Japan
Bicycle Investigation Association.
Article 16. Manufacturer shall follow the regulations
and notices of the Japan Bicycle Inspec-
tion Association.
Chapter III. Distribution and Control
Article 17. According to the direction of authorities
concerned, every three months the Society
shall notify the Affiliated Association
and members of the Association the number
of bicycles and accessories to distribute
to the dealers of different cities, pro-
vinces, and prefectures.
Article 18.
The Society shall have joint business with
the Affiliated Associations, the members
of the Association, and the dealers whom
the authorities concerned have designated.
Article 19. The Affiliated Associations shall decide
on the number of bicycles and articles
16 041 P113 b

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
-110-
for repair use and accessories to dis-
tribute to the retail dealers, after
having been notified by the Society.
Article 20.
The estimation and the distribution of
the previous items shall be made accord-
ing to the order of the authorities con-
cerned.
Article 2l. The Affiliated Associations shall not
make use of goods for purposes other
than those designated by the Society.
Article 22.
The Society shall direct the Affiliated
Associations, whenever there is any di-
rection by the authorities concerned,
to take special measures on the adjust-
ments of bicycles.
Chapter IV. Punishment for violators.
Article 23. When the members of the Society violate
the regulations of Article 4, 14, 15, 21,
they shall be fined not more than 500 yen.
Article 24.
Whe.. the members of the Society violate
the regulations of Article 5, 6, 7, 16,
20, they shall be fined not more than one-
thousand yen.
SOURCE: Kampo, July 13, 1944.
16 041 pl14 bu

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
Appendix XVIII
Essential Materials Supervision Corporation Lawl
(Juyo Busshi Kanri Eidan-po)
February 24, 1942, Law No. 69
Name of Corporation:
Juyo Busshi Kanri Eidan
Capitalization:
Yen 20,000,000, supplied entirely
by the Government
Purpose:
To guarantee and increase stocks
of essential materials in wartime;
to provide for efficient and ade-
quate utilization of the stored
essential materials."
The content of this Law in general is similar to the Industrial
Equipment Corporation Law (Sangyo Setsubi Eidan-po). The con-
crete projects of the Corporation are listed below.
1. Storage of the essential materials to provide for their
continuous supply to meet the demand in emergency cases, such
as air raids. If the reserved materials are enormous and the
Corporation's facilities are insufficient, it is provided that
the Corporation can order others to store them. (Article 18).
2. Purchase, importation and sale of the essential materials.
This involves procurement of the materials for stock piling,
and disposal of the stocked materials. The Corporation can de-
mand that those who store the essential materials report on
their books and documents (Article 17)/
3. The Corporation may engage in activities necessary to
achieve its purpose, (for instance, establishment of new ware-
houses). However, since the activities of the Corporation are
concerned with the movement of materials, those activities should
be in accordance with the plans of the Government (Article 16).
The following are characteristic points of the law concerning
the corporation's financial structure:
1. It lacks provisions for issue of debentures.
2. It lacks provisions for compensation of the Corporation's
losses.
3. It includes penalties in case of negligence on the part
of Corporation's Officials, which is different from some
other Corporation's such as the Industrial Equipment
Management Corporation.
The name of this Law is alternatively translated as Vital
Materials Management Corporation Law.
10 041 p115 bu

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
- 112 -
Date of enforcement of this law 1s decided as March 5, 1942 by
the Imperial Ordinance No. 122, March 4, 1942.
Source: Keizai Tosei-ho Nempo (Economic Control Law Annual
Report) Series I, Vol. I, (January-March 1942)
p. 83 - 84
16 041 p116 bu

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.98)
-113-
Appendix XIX
Regulations of Small Scale Business Control Society (abstract)
I.
General Regulations
1) The purpose of this society shall be to support the
national policy of placing all small scale business
within the territory of Tokyo and Osaka under the
direction and control of the National Financial Con-
trol Society.
2) This society shall be set up in accordance with the
decree of the National Financial Control Society.
3)
The headquarters of this society shall be located in
Tcxyo.
4)
The jurisdiction of this society shall be within the
territory of Tokyo and Osaka.
II
Members
5) This society shall be composed of all small business
firms within the designated territory that come under
the direction of the competent minister.
6)
Members shall not evado, hinder or refuse inspection
by the society's officers concerning their property
and business conditions.
7) When a member of this society requests material which
concerns the National Financial Control Society and
its affairs, the society shall supply the material
without any delay.
8) Members shall obey all control regulations formulated
by the society.
III. Work and its execution
9) In order to fulfill the aim of Regulation No. 1, the
following work shall be done by all members:
a) Direct and control capital, loans and the
exchange of bank notes.
b) Promote the preparation of small scale business.
c) Strengthen the structure of small scale business.
d)
 Promote a closer relationship between small
scale business and industry.
16 041 pà17 bu

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
-114-
e) Make surveys and do research concerning small
scale business.
f) Besides the above items, other necessary works
for the benefit of this society shall be re-
quired.
10) Control regulations of this society shall be recognized
by the Minister of Finance.
The chief director shall consult counselors in order to
formulate or modify control regulations.
11) Essential affairs of this society shall be executed by
the chief director.
IV.
Officers
12) This society shall have a chief director, a vice-director
and a certain number of superintendents and counselors.
13) The chief director shall direct and control all small
scale business affected by this society.
The vice-director shall assist the chief director in all
works and act for him in his absence.
Superintendents examine and audit the financial status of
the society.
Counselors shall answer and give opinions to the chief
directors and vice-director's inquiries.
14)
The chief director shall be appointed by the Minister of
Finance and he should have a good knowledge of and ex-
perience in small scale business.
The vice-director and counselors should also understand
and have experience in small-scale business and their
appointments must be approved by the chief director and
the Minister of Finance.
Superintendents shall be selected by the majority of mem-
bers of this society.
15) The appointments of the chief director and vice-director
shall be for three years and those of superintendents
and counselors for two years each. If the chief director
or vice-director wishes to resign during his incumbency
his resignation should be approved by the Minister of
Finance.
16 041 p118 b1

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
-115-
V.Conference
16) There shall be two kinds of conferences namely:
a) ordinary conferences
b) emergency conferences.
The ordinary conference shall be held once a
year while an emergency conference shall be
called whenever it is needed. Conferences
shall be called by the chief director and noti-
fications of the conference shall be mailed to
members one week before the meeting is held.
Purpose, date and place of 'the conference shall
be mentioned in the notification. The chief
director shall be the chairman of the conference.
17)
The chief director shall consult all members in
the conference concerning any change in the re-
gulations or the financial budget of the society.
18) At the annual ordinary conference the chief di-
rector shall report on all affairs and conditions
and the superintendents shall report on the finan-
cial statements of the society.
VI. Financial Management
19) The fiscal calendar of this society shall be
from April 1 of one year to March 31 of the
next year.
20) All members shall pay a membership fee.
The membership fee and the method of collecting
it shall be deternined by the chief director.
He shall consult the members at the ordinary
conference and adopt the members' opinion.
VII. Dissolution and Liquidation
21) This society may be dissolved by the order of
the Minister of Finance.
22) The liquidator shall be selected by the court.
16 041 p119 bu

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
-116-
VIII. Penalty
23) A member who violates the general regulations
of this society shall be fined a sum of not
over 2,000 yen.
24)
A member who violates the control regulations of
this society shall be fined a sum not over
5,000 yen.
(Toseikai Nenkan Control Society Year Book, Tokyo p. 341).
16 041 p120 bu

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
-117-
Appendix XX
Middle and Small Scale Industries.(Abstract).
1. Economic reorganization.
National economy has been reorganized for the purpose
of expanding munitions production, promoting industrial ex-
portation and reducing peacetime industries. Medium and
small-scale industries have been converted into munitions
industries. This procedure was begun in 1940, and medium
and small scale industries have been reorganized since 1941
for a unification of industries.
II.
The policies of industrial mobilization.
1) Form of unification. Small industrial and limited
companies were legalized, for the Government has encouraged
medium and small scale industries to combine into associations
since 1939 and the members were allowed to maintain independ-
ent businesses. The number of small industrial associations
for different industries in March 1942 is as follows:-
Industry
Number.of small industrial associations
Fabric
1,035
Metal
119
Machine
203
Pottery
15
Chemical
17
Lumber and Woodcraft
171
Printing
15
Others
183
Total
1,758
The new form of limited companies became effective on
1 January 1940; they were completely unified in management and
in production. The number of limited companies and their capital
in March 1942 for the different industries is as follows:-
10 041 p121 bu

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
-118-
Number of
limited
Industry
companies
Capital (Yen)
Percentage
Fabric
584
47,427,600
35.7
Metal
87
6,585,500
5.0
Machine
414
29,600,800
22.3
Chemical
181
10,632,600
8.1
Fottery
44
2,927,000
2.2
Printing and
Book-binding
18
960,400
0.7
Lumber and
Woodcraft
175
8,866,200
6.7
Food
187
22,088,700
15.1
Gas & Electric
3
30,000
0.0
Others
137
5,635,500
4.2
Total
1,830
132,804,300
100.0
The Government issued an outline of the new system of
economic structure in the reorganization of economic organiza-
tions on 7 December 1940:
1) The constitution of economic organizations.
All enterprises and associations of essential indus-
tries may be unified end all owners and entarprisers of essen-
tial industries may be compelled to join the unified economic
orgenizations according to the classification of industries as
special corporation under the management of directors vho are
approved by the Government. Enterprises outside of Japan may
also be compelled to join the unified economic organizations
according to the classification of their industries.
2) The functions of economic organizations.
These economic organizations according to the clas-
sification of industries are the cooperative structures of the
Government. All plens, proposals and projects may be approved
by the Government and the Government, when necessary, supervises
production, distribution and management of these organizations.
The fundamentel spirit of these organizations is sacrifice for
the development of national economy.
16 041 p122 bu

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
-119-
3) Relationsnip with Government.
The Government has the right to direct and super-
vise and develop these economic organizations.
III. Relationship with the Control Societies.
The existing industriel associations have weaknesses
in their control systems. The industrial associetions had
as their aim the making of e joint profit and individual
member has the right to voice his opinion in the menagement
of the industries. But the Control Societies under the re-
organization of national economy has the aim of pursuing a
unified control of national policies. The Control Societies
have been organized under force and members have been com-
pelled to join by force, while the industriel associations
were organized independently and members joined of their own
free will, so that there was no principle or controlled guidance.
Furthermore, the Control Societies were orgenized with the aim of
promoting the entire strength of national economy by controlling
production, distribution end the direction of industries. They
serve the nation by adjusting industriel problems, improving
industrial skills, advencing industriel efficiency, improving
management and developing the business of members.
Now is the time for the Government to show its authority
in controllins the essential industries of the nation, and for
this purpose, the Government issued regulations for adjusting
industriel enterprises on 1l December to restrict the trensfer,
investment, disposel and use of private industry.
1) The law for control of enterprises shall be enforced
to establish a firm foundation for national economy. All busi-
ness enterprises must be operated with the permission of Gov-
ernment and the Control Society, and the Government and Control
Society alone cen transfer any industriel enterprise. In addi-
tion, new arrangements concerning an industry or additional ar-
rangements concerning an industry or the improvement of industrial
arrangements shall be made only with the permission of Government
and the Control Society.
2) Government-designated industries are prohibited to
transfer or discontinue their work without the permission of
the Government. The Government alone has the right to readjust
any arrangement in regard to commiesioning, taking charge of and
transferring industrial enterprises. Also the Government
16 041 p123 bu

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
-120
shall issue orders for the organization or reorganization or
discontinuation of limited or stock companies.
SOURCE: Rodo Nenkan 1943 Part I, p. 160-166.
16 p41 p124 bu

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.99)
-121-
Appendix XXI
Export Associations
Exporters' Associations (Yushutsu Kumiai) have come
into existence not only for the protection of the yen and
procurement of foreign exchange much needed for the prosecu-
tion of the war efforts, but also to provide the means and
measures for the acquisition of the war materials wherever
it was possible on one hand, and for the reduction of con-
sumption of exportable goods in Japan on the other.
The Exporters' Associations were not of recent origin.
The existed as far back as 1925, but with gradual develop-
ment of the military activity in the Far East the number of
Exporters' Associations has been remarkedly increased. Thus,
in 1935 there were 85 Exporters' Associations as against 14
in 1930.
Of the total number of the Exporters' Associations
covering various industries, there were by 1937, 40 associa-
tions related to goods, 28 to markets, and 17 to goods and
markets. Associations which exercised control over the whole
country numbered 34, while 51 were of local character.
Of the associations relating to the markets, the re-
gional classification was as follows: Manchoukuo (15),
Soviet Union (2), United States and Canada (5), Central
America (8), Argentina (2), Europe (3), and British India
(3), Africa, Balkans and near East (4), Philippines (2).
and South Asia (2).
The activities of the Exporters' Associations became
in the course of time, over-lapping with those of the Indus-
trial Associations. (Kogyo Kumiai). This was particularly
noticeable in the production and distribution of consumers
goods, notably textiles. The seepage of various goods, es-
pecially all cotton piece goods into the home market became
increasingly dangerous to the government's object, by 1937,
of promoting export trade to build up the necessary exchange
to purchase vital raw materials, machine tools, etc. for the
expanding way industries. To correct it the Commodity Link
System was introduced in 1937.
16 041 p125 bu

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
-122-
Appendix XXII
Regulations Governing Special Responsibilities in Keeping
The following companies are designated to purchase and
keep safe miscellaneous articles for export.
Japan Trade Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Celluloid Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Rubber Articles Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Glass Articles Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Japan Machine Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
The special responsibility to keep safe the miscellaneous
articles for export for the time of the reopening of world-trade
for prosperity is an important matter. Therefore the above men-
tioned companies are authorized to purchase now and keep safe
miscellaneous articles in accordance with the following regula-
tions:
I. The scope of enrorcement.
The above mentioned five companies are authorized as the
organizations that have special responsibilities to keep safe
miscellaneous articles for export:
1) Luxury articles that have been prohibited under con-
trol regulations.
2)
Miscellaneous articles that have not been manufactured
on account of the difficulty of getting raw materials.
3)
Miscellaneous articles that are of little use to the
Japanese but are made for foreign markets.
II. The method of enforcement.
1) The special ability to keep safe miscellaneous articles
for exportation for the time of the reopening of world
trade, means the ability to maintain management to pur-
chase,and keep safe the miscellaneous articles with the
minimum effort and expense.
2)
Superior factories that have manufacturing skills and
experience shall be designated to keep safe the mis-
cellaneous articles for later exportation at the time
of the reopening of trade for prosperity.
3)
Such factories are designated as the factories that have
direct relationship with the above mentioned designated
companies.
16 041 7126 bu

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.99)
-123-
4)
The iesignated companies will order miscellaneous
articles from the designated factories to export
to Thailand, French Indo-China, and the Southern
Areas.
5)
The designated factories shall deal with the de-
signated companies to export their entire manufao-
tured articles to third nations.
6)
Japan Trade Prosperity Co. shall distribute ap-
propriate raw materials for manufacturing miscel-
laneous articles to the designated factories with
the permission of the Ministry of Commerce and In-
dustry.
III.
Mèthods of enforcement.
1)
Under the leadership of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry the committee for safe-keeping miscellaneous
articles for export shall be established in each de-
signated company. The committee shall consiat of
officials of each designated company.
2)
Each committee shall propose the plans of each fac-
tory as to the methou for keeping safe the miscel-
laneous articles, and shall obtain the permission
of the inistry of commerce end industry.
3)
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shall instruct
all other necessary matters pertaining to the en-
forcement of the above regulations.
1
These regulations indicate (a) Post-war trading objectives
of Japan and (b) the constant urge to build up foreign ex-
change balances by starving the home markets which could
readily absorb a larger proportion of the export products
were it not for controls such as this and the commodity
link system.
SOURCE: Keisai Toseiho Nempo, Tokyo, 1942 P. 430-31
10 041 p127 Du

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
-124-
Apnendix XXIII
THE COMMODITY LINK SYSTEM IN JAPAN
The substance of the Commodity Link System involves an ex-
change of a set of commodities by means of export and. im-
port regulations imposed by the government. This system was
introduced in Japan in 1937, with a view to insure the impor-
tation of war supplies, while the imports of commodities for
general consumption had been placed under rigorous control
by means of the Import Permit System or the Import Exchange
Permit System.
The Link System; i.e., the linking between exports and im-
ports of individual traders or organizations, may be divided
into Import Privilege System and an Obligatory Export System.
The former is a system for permitting imports in link with
export trade already completed, which thus gives the export-
er the privilege to import. The latter, on the contrary, is
a system of ob?igatory export, since the import trade already
permitted is to be linked wiih the export trade to be com-
pleted as a necessary conditin. There are two types of the
link system, an individual commodity linking system and a
group linking system. Most of the link systems in operation
in 1939 were the individual types operated predominately by
the large-scale individual concerns. The group linking sys-
tem was adopted only in the brush and rayon piece-goods trade.
In the latter industries the entrepreneurs as well as the
manufacturers. are for the most part petty individuals. In
these industries imports and exports dominate the situation
exercised jointly through their organizations.
The commodity link system was enforced with reference to seven
commodities:
1. Soap link
4. Hat link
Brush link
5.
Japarese paper link
3.
Fool link
6.
Cotton link
7. Rayon link
All commodity link systems in force by the end of 1939 except
the hat link system were operated as guantity link systems.
The hat link system was the only value link system in force.
Under this system import of raw materials was permitted up to
35 percent of the value of the hats, f.o.b. or 50 percent of
the value of hat bodies. Against these imports, it was re-
quired that the corresponding products were exported within
eight months, either as hats at three times the value of
16 041 p128 bu

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
-125 -
The group link system and the value link system would appear
to have preference in the future as against individual and
quantitative link systems.
The most notable example of the efficiency of the link system
can be seen in cotton trade where it works exclusively through
the spinning companies which exercise control over all sections
of the industry. Cotton spinners acquire the right to import
raw cotton when they export yarn or tissues, or when they de-
liver yarn to officially designated associations of the manu-
facturer or the amount needed for the manufacture of the ex-
ported yarn or tissues, or vhen they deliver yarn to offical-
ly designated associations of manufacturers or exporters. The
value of raw cotton which may be imported is determined by the
amount needed for the manufacture of the exported yarn or piece
goods. Gray goods have to be exported within two months and
finished goods within two months and finished goods within
three months after the import of the raw material contained
in them and with a few exceptions the production of cotton
ma ufacturt rs for domestic consumption has been prohibited
as stocks of cotton goods placed urder governmental control.
1/ For fuller details see Kyoto University Economic Review,
April and July 1939 - "The Link System in Japan" by
Prof. Kichihiko Taniguchi.
2/ Ibid., pp. 16 - 17.
16 041 p120 bu

=== Page 131 === (confidence 1.00)
-126-
Appendix XXIV
THE DEVELOPIENT OF THE COMMODITY LIN SYSTEN IN JAPAN
Commodities
Date
linked
Types of
Associations
Designation
enforced
Exports
Imports
System
concerned
Soap link
October
Soap
Beef
Export ob-
Japan Soap
1, 1937
Tallow
ligation
Exporters
Spices 6)
Individual
Association
link
Quantity
link 7)
Brush link
January
Brush
Bristles
Export ob-
Bristle Im-
1,1930
ligation
porters
Natural
Group link
Control As-
ebony
Quantity
sociation
link
Natural Ebony
Mexican
Importers'
fibre
Control Ass'n
Cow bones
Cow Bone Im-
porters Con-
trol Ass'n.
Wool link
March
Woolen
Wool
Import
Wool Importers'
15,1938
goods
privilege
Control Ass'n.
Export
Jaran Woolen
obligation
Yarn Export
Individual
Association
link
Japan Woolen
Quantity
Textile Ex-
link
port Ass'n.
Japan Hosiery
Export Ass'n.
Japan Philip-
pine Hosiery
Export Ass'n.
Hat link
May 10,
Felt Hats
Noil &
Import
Japan Felt-hat
1938
Hat bodies
other
privilege
Raw Material
Waste
Export Ob-
Importers' Con-
wool
ligation
trol Ass'n.
Individual
Japan Felt-Hat
link
Export Ass'n.
Value link
Japanese
June 1,
Japanese
Manila
Export
Japanese Paper
paper link
1938
paper
hemp
obligation
Export Promo-
Individual
tion Ass'n.
link
Quantity link
16 p41 p130 bu

=== Page 132 === (confidence 1.00)
-127-
Commodities
Date
linked
Types of
Associations
Designation
enforced
Exports
Imports
System
concerned
Cotton link
July 1,
Cotton Goods
Raw cot-
Import
Japan Cotton
1938
ton
privilege
Spinners' Ass'n.
Export
Federation of
obligation
Japan Cotton-
Individual
goods Export
link
Associations
Quantity
link
Rayon link
August 1, Rayon
Rayon
Import
Japan Rayon Ass'n.
1938
yarn &
pulp
privilege
Federation of
textiles
Export ob-
Japan
ligation
Rayon-goods Ex-
Individual
port Ass'n.
link (yarns)
Group link Federation of
(textiles)
Japan Export
Quantity
Rayon Dealers'
link
Associations.
6) Enforced in February 1936
7) Spices are linked with a value system
16 041 p131 bu

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX
XXV
THE NATIONAL POIICY COMPANIES OF JAPAN - 1943
041 p132
Authorized
Capital
Capitali-
Paid-up
bu
Date of
zation
(in thous-
Establishment
(in thous-
and yen)
and yen)
Karafuto Development Company
6-1938
50,000
25,000
Teito High Speed Transit Eidan
7-1941
60,000
25,000
Nippon Publication Distribution Co.
5-1941
10,000
5,000
Nippon Cinema Materials Control Co.
3-1943
5,000
500
Oriental Development Co.
12-1908
100,000
15,000
Formosa Development Co.
6-1936
60,000
48,750
Yokohama Specie Bank
2-1886
100,000
100,000
Bank of Japan
10-1882
100,000
45,000
Nippon Hypothetic Bank
6-1897
141,920
117,795
Okayama Ken Agriculture & Industrial Bank
12-1897
3,000
3,000
2
Aichi Ken Agriculture & Industrial Bank
3-1898
6,000
4,500
8
Kanagawa Agrioulture & Industrial Bank
3-1898
4,000
4,000
Ibaraki Agriculture & Industrial Bank
4-1898
3,000
3,000
Fukushima Agriculture & Industrial Bank
6-1898
4,000
4,000
Hokkaido Colonization Bank
2-1900
20,885
12,770
Nippon Industrial Bank
3-1902
200,000
87,500
People's Gold Depository
7-1938
10,000
9,690
Wartime Financial Gold Depository
4-1942
300,000
150,000
Nippon Securities Exchange
6-1943
200,000
200,000
Pension Gold Depository
6-1938
30,000
30,000
Industrial Associetion Central Gold Depository
12-1927
35,700
35,700
Nippon Cotton Fishing Net Mfg.
9-1939
2,000
2,000
12-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Manila Hemp Net Co.
Nippon Oil Fertilizers
5-1940
3,000
3,000
Farm Machinery Distribution Co.
5-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Throwing Mfg. Sale
5-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Straw Products Distribution
7-1940
3,000
3,000
9-1940
500
300
Nippon Rubber for Farm Equipment Dist.
10-1940
300
150
Agricultural Insecticide
11-1940
500
500
Nippon Manila Hemp Net Mfg.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Capitali-
Paid-up
Date of
sation (in
(In thous-
Estab-
thousand
and yen)
lishment
yen)
Teikaku Oil Control
9-1942
32,185
15,735
Fodder Distribution
4-1938
8,450
5,575
Toa Tea Mfg.
7-1932
1,200
300
Dai Nippon Phosphorus Ores
6-1939
3,000
1,500
Organic Fertilizer
12-1939
30,000
1,500
Nippon Raw Hemp
6,1940
5,000
5,000
Nippon Export of Farm Products
7-1940
10,000
5,000
Nippon Fertilizer
7-1940
50,000
13,250
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Starch
Chosen Livestock Dist.
11-1940
1,000
500
Fodder Mfg.
4-1941
5,000
5,000
129
5-1941
150
75
Nippon Seeds
Farmland Development Eidan
5-1941
30,000
15,000
8-1941
10,000
5,000
Nippon Sweet Potatoes & Potatoes
11-1941
10,500
5,000
Nippon Raw Hide
Nippon Rabbit
11-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Raised Fur
10-1939
150
75
9-1940
71
71
Dai Nippon Fur Control
5-1941
10,000
10,000
Nippon Charcoal for Gas
8-1941
50,000
25,000
Nippon Lumber
4-1942
1,500
1,500
Nippon Special Forest Products Control
10-1939
1,000
500
Marine (products) Skin Control
9-1940
2,000
1,000
Nippon Vegetable Gelatine Control
12-1940
700
350
16
Kokusan Fuel Equipment
8-1942
1,000
500
041 p133
Nippon Godo Pearl
11-1942
1,500
1,500
Nippon Marine Products
12-1942
50,000
50,000
Teikoku Marinn Products Control
6-1940
5,000
2,500
Nippon Silk-Yarn By-Products Control
bu
5-1941
80,000
40,000
Nippon Silk-Yarn Control
2-1942
3,000
3,000
Development Co. for Silk-Yarn Use

=== Page 135 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
18
Authorized
Capital
041
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
P134
Estab-
tian (in
(In thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen).
bu
Nippon Silk-Yarn Mfg.
7-1943
100,000
50,000
Kyoto Green Producers
1-1928
2,700
2,440
Beer Joint-Sales
8-1933
2,000
1,000
Canned Crab Kyowakai Joint-Sales
7-1935
1,000
1,000
Canned Crab Sales
6-1939
150
150
Nippon Marine Products Dist.
8-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Sugar Distribution
6-1940
2,000
500
Nippon Salmon & Trout Distribution
6-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Meat Distribution
8-1941
6,000
6,000
Kanto Fowl
10-1941
198
198
Kyokan Fowl
10-1941
198
198
Fukuoka Ken Fowl
11-1941
100
50
Zenkoku Soy Sauce Control
11-1941
1,000
1,000
Nippon Amino Acid Control
11-1941
1,500
1,500
Zenkoku Bean Paste
11-1941
1,00ρ
1,000
130
Nippon Canned Food Control
3-1942
6,000
3,000
Central Food Public Corporation (Eidan)
9-1942
100,000
60,898
Shoko Kumiai Central Gold Depository
11-1936
16,000
9,983
Kokumin Kosei Gold Depository
7-1941
100,000
97,520
Industrial Establishment Public Corp. (Eidan)
12-1942
200,000
78,450
Nippon Iron Mfg.
1-1934
800,000
671,000
Nippon Precious Metals
12-1937
1,000
1,000
Nippon Gold Production Promotion
9-1938
50,000
40,000
Teikoku Mine Development
8-1939
90,000
27,000
Steel & Iron Raw Materials Control
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Teikoku Light Metal Control
9-1940
25,000
12,500
Nippon Metal Dist.
9-1940
10,000
5,000
Teikoku Manganese Chrome
4-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Wire Rod Products Control
6-1941
1,000
1,000
Nippon Cast-Iron Tube Control
7-1941
3,000
1,500
Nippon Mine-Ball Control
8-1941
500
500
Nippon Ore Dressing Reagent
9-1941
500
250

=== Page 136 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(In thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Nippon Hoops Control
10-1941
500
500
Iron & Steel Sales Control
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Shavel Control
12-1941
500
500
Nippon Black-Lead Crucible
1-1942
500
500
Nippon Band Steel Control
1-1942
500
500
Black Sheet Control
2-1942
100
100
Nippon Wire Tube Control
3-1942
500
500
Nippon Empty Can Control
3-1942
500
500
Nippon Light Metal Control
4-1942
2,000
2,000
Wire Distribution
4-1942
2,000
2,000
Metal Distribution
5-1942
2,000
2,000
Nippon Ships Hardware Equipment Control
5-1942
1,000
500
Nippon Flourite Control
5-1942
3,00b
1,500
Special Steel Sale
6-1942
1,000
1,000
Metal Collection Control
7-1942
500
500
131
Nippon Automobile
6-1914
3,000
2,500
Callons Oil Glycerine Control
3-1926
800
800
Nippon Leather & Hide Control
3-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Chikatabi Joint Sales
9-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Automobile Tire Control
11-1939
1,000
250
Nippon Kaizen Control
12-1939
100
100
Nippon Tawmin Industry
12-1939
1,700
1,700
Nippon Rubber Toy and Sport Goods for Export Control
1-1940
200
100
Nippon Metal and Glass from Waste Bulbs
2-1940
195
195
Cement Joint Sales
3-1940
5,000
1,250
10
Rubber Goods for Marine Ind. Joint-Sales
8-1940
150
150
8-1940
1,000
1,000
041 p135
Dai Nippon Asbestos
Nippon Rubber Band Control
10-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Joint-Sales for Authorized Rubber Sporting Goods
10-1940
100
50
Nippon Industrial Rubber Goods Control
12-1940
500
250
bu
Nippon Rubber Hose Control
12-1940
1,000
750
Paints Control
12-1940
150
75

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
16
Appendix XXV - continued
041 p136 bu
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Nippon Waste Glass Control
12-1940
1,000
500
Export Rubber Promotion
12-1940
2,000
500
Nippon Mixed Dye Stuff Sale
1-1941
10,000
10,000
Carbide Joint Sale
2-1941
1,000
250
Toa Lacquer Control
3-1941
1,000
750
Nippon Repossessed Tire Sale Control
3-1941
500
250
Koa Lacquer Ltd. Co.
4-1941
100
100
Nippon Tannin Trading Co.
4-1941
1,500
1,500
Rubber Control for Medical Use
4-1941
190
90
Nippon Gunpowder Control
5-1941
2,500
1,250
Nippon Shimbo Leather Control
7-1941
190
475
Nippon Industrial Leather Products Control
8-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Cyanide Soda Sales
9-1941
150
150
Nippon Gall Nuts Control
10-1941
500
250
Nippon Industrial Leather Gloves Control
10-1941
150
150
1
Chuo Oil Cloth
10-1941
190
47.5
3
2
Tobu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
180
Chubu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
100
100
Kansai Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
180
Seibu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
125
Toyo Licquor Industry
11-1941
150
150
Nippon Celluloid Control
11-1941
500
250
Nippon Waste Qelluloid Control
11-1941
200
100
Nippon Shoes Dist. Control
11-1941
1,000
500
Toa Refined Lacquer for Rolling Stock
12-1941
150
75
Raw Materials for Glue Control
12-1941
500
500
Nippon Reproduced Leather Products
12-1941
190
190
Nippon Mixed Resin Control
12-1941
1,000
500
Tar Products Distribution Control
2-1942
3,000
3,000
2-1942
195
195
Nippon Tar Medium Dist.
Soda for Industrial Chemicals
3-1942
2,000
2,000
Nippon Photo Material Control
4-1942
190
190
5-1942
198
99
Nippon Steatite Dist. Control
Shinko China Dist. Control
5-1942
190
190
Nippon Light Metal Equipment Control
5-1942
2,000
2,000

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
7-1942
190
190
Nippon Organic kubber Chemicals Control
8-1942
300
300
Nippon Pine Root Oil Products Control
7-1942
3,000
3,000
Nippon Soap Distribution Control
9-1942
5,000
3,000
Nippon Match Control
12-1942
2,000
1,500
Organic Mixed Goods Dist. Control
1-1943
5,000
3,000
Nippon Sulphuric Acid Dist. Control
1-1943
3,000
1,500
Kanto Cement Sale
1-1943
1,000
500
Chukei Cement Sale
1-1943
1,600
800
Chukoku Cement Sale
2-1943
300
300
Nippon Potassium Salt
2-1943
2,000
2,000
Nippon Photo Sensitive Material Sales
22-1943
1,000
500
Tokoku Cement Sale
2-1943
3,000
1,500
Keamsai Cement Sale
Kyushu Cement Sale
2-1943
1,000
800
8
3-1943
1,000
500
133
Hokkaide Cement Sale
3-1943
700
400
Hokuriki Cement Sale
Nippon Fire Proof Brick Control
3-1943
3,000
3,000
I
4-1943
1,000
500
Nippon Reagent Control
4-1943
2,000
2,000
Paints Control
10-1941
180
45
Nippon Temper Machine Tools
7-1942
1,000
1,000
Hyojun Electrical Machinery Joint-Sale
7-1942
10,000
10,000
Nippon Automobile Dist.
7-1942
500
250
Iron Tube
9-1938
2,000
1,550
Nippon Towel Mfg. Control
6-1939
6,500
6,500
Meriyasu Mfg. Control
9-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Cotton Fishing Nets Mfg.
16
9-1939
500
500
041
Zenkoku Medical Gauze Mfg. Control
10-1939
20,000
12,500
Nippon Cotton Sufu Cloth Control
P137
Nippon Waste Cloth Control
10-1939
120
120
10-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Waste Fiber Dist. Control
bu
4-1939
500
500
Nippon Special Artificial Silk Yarn Control

=== Page 139 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
18
041
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
P138
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
bu
Nippon Throwing Yarn Mfg. Sales
12-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Manila Hemp Net
12-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Special Cotton Sufu Cloth
1-1940
1,000
750
Chuo Mfg. Dis. Control for Work Clothes & Uniforms
4-1940
2,000
2,000
Nippon Used Cotton Control
4-1940
500
250
Nippon Used Fibre Control
5-1940
3,000
1,500
Nippon Sewing Thread Mfg. Dist.
5-1940
1,500
1,500
Nippon Spinning Waste Cloth
6-1940
150
150
Nippon Raw Hemp
6-1940
5,000
5,000
Nippon Special Cloth for Rayon
7-1940
500
500
Nippon Cocoon Products
8-1940
10,000
2,000
Zenkoku Raw Material for Japanese Paper Control
9-1940
190
190
Nippon Yara Spinning Yarn Controi
10-1940
2,000
2,000
Nippon Tabi Mfg. Control
10-1940
3,000
3,000
Nippon Special Cotton Yarn Cloth Control
10-1940
1,500
1,500
134
Nippon Used Manila Hemp Nets Mfg.
11-1940
500
500
Nippon Special Cloth Control
12-1940
1,000
500
Western Paper Joint-Sales
12-1940
180
180
Nippon Publication Div.
12-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Hemp Fibre
5-1941
30,000
3,000
Nippon Japanese Paper Mfg. Control
8-1941
1,250
1,250
Nippon Sheet Paper Control
10-1941
1,000
500
Chuo Dis. Control for Mariyasu products
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Wool Control
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Chuo Mfg. Dist. Control for Towels
1-1942
1,000
1,000
Chuo Mfg. Dist. Control for Japanese Clothings
1-1942
1,500
1,500
Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control for Cotton Fibre Goods
1-1942
5,000
5,000
Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control for Ready Made Cloths
1-1942
5000
5,000
Nippon Silk & Rayon Fibre Dist. Control
1-1942
20,000
20,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Cotton Cloth
1-1942
10,000
10,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Woolen Thread
1-1942
3,000
3,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Fabi
1-1942
2,000
2,000

=== Page 140 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand, yen)
and yen)
Nippon Silk Sewing Thread Mfg. & Dist. Control
2-1942
2,300
2,300
Chuo Dist. Control for Woolen Blankets
2-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Sail Cloth
2-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Cotton Sufu Cloth Dist.
3-1942
30,000
30,000
Tokyo To Fibre Products Dist. Control
3-1942
10,000
10,000
Nippon Silk & Cotton Mfg. & Sales
5-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon By-Products of Cocoon Yarn Control
7-1942
5,000
2,500
Nippon Silk-Rayon Cloth Mfg.
10-1942
40,000
40,000
Nippon Hats, Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control
5,000
5,000
Toa Grains Import Control
5-1938
150
150
Nippon Export Automobile Sale
9-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Export Agricultural Products
9-1940
10,000
10,000
Celluloid Export Production
9-1940
150
150
Fibre Products Export Promotion
11-1915
10,000
2,500
Toa Lumber Trade
12-1940
2,500
2,500
135
Glass Products Export Promotion
12-1940
2,000
500
Rubber Products Export Promotion
12-1940
2,000
500
Toa Raw Material for Plant Oil Import
12-1940
150
150
Toa Scrap Iron Import
12-1940
300
300
Toa Pig Bristle Import
12-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Trade Promotion
1-1941
25,000
6,250
Toa By-Products of Cocoon Yarn Import
1-1941
1,000
250
Nippon Raw Material for Glue Import Control
1-1941
200
200
Silk & Rayon Export Promotion
3-1941
5,000
5,000
China Export Promotion
4-1941
3,000
750
Nippon Machinery Export Promotion
7-1941
5,000
1,250
16
Nippon Raw Cotton Import Control
7-1941
2,500
2,500
041
Nippon Leather Products Export Promotion
1-1942
195
195
Chemical Products Export Promotion
1-1942
3,000
1,500
0139
6-1943
300,000
213,955
Koeki Eidan
6-1926
20,000
20,000
Kita Karafuto Petroleum
bu
Kit Karafuta Mining
8-1926
10,000
10,000
Showa Finished Products of Agriculture
12-1934
12,000
12,000

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XIY - ocontinued
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Lstab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand rep)
and)
Alcobol Transportati
2-1938
5,000
3,980
Tom Alcohol Development
3-1938
8,000
8,000
Toihaku Fuel Development
7-1938
200,000
120,000
Telkmka Coke
2-1939
5,000
1,250
4-1940
20,000
10,000
Petroloum Dist. Control
5-1940
7,180
6,930
Nippon Fuel Burner
6-1940
50,000
25,000
Nippon Coal
9-1940
1,000
500
Hokkaido Coal Sale
9-1940
1,000
250
Joban Coal
9-1940
1,000
500
Yamaguchi Coal
10-1940
1,000
250
Nishi Kyushu Coal
10-1940
6,000
6,000
Alcobol Dist.
11-1940
1,000
250
Karafuto Coal
4-1941
10,410
10,410
Kyodo Enterprise
9-1941
260,000
260,000
Teikaku Petroloum
Each Do Pu & Ken Petroloum Distribution
Between
11-1941 &
4,500€
4,500
&
1-1942
160
90
Each Do Fu & Ken Coal Distribution
Between
3-1942 &
9,000 &
9,000
6-1942
120
120
11-1942
5,000
5,000
Nippon Postal Communication
3-1938
85,800
63,556
Kokusai Electric Communication
10-1942
10,000
5,000
Wireless Telegraph & Telephone of Ships
4-1937
20,000
10,000
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Works
4-1939
1,541,000
1,466,000
Nippon Electric Power Generation & Transmission
4-1942
65,000
65,000
Hokkaido Power Distribution
4-1942
164,700
161,295
Tokoku Power Distribution
4-1942
805,000
805,000
Kanto Power Distribution
4-1942
200,000
109,58%
Chubu Power Distribution
4-1942
138,000
119,486
Hokuriku Power Distribution
4-1942
560,000
507,253
Kansai Power Distribution
4-1942
58,500
58,500
Shikoku Power Distribution
4-1942
170,000
170,000
Chukoku Power Distribution
4-1942
230,000
230,000
Kyushu Power Distribution
8-1942
100.000
86,500
Toe Marine Transport

=== Page 142 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXy - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
7-1935
500
500
Shoei Coal
2-1941
850
850
Fushiki Harbour Transport
6-1941
430
430
Rumoi Harbor Transport
7-1941
10,000
8,000
Hokkaido Coal Transport
3-1942
1,000
500
Hiroshima Harbour Transport
3-1942
150
375
Onoda Harbour Transports
3-1942
100
25
Karatsu Harbor Transport
3-1942
1,000
1,000
Railway Department Coal Transport
4-1942
1,000
1,000
Hakodate Sea & Land Works
4-1942
190
190
Omi Harbour Transport
5-1942
195
48
Ube Harbour Transport
6-1942
1,750
1,750
Niigata Harbour Transport
7-1942
190
190
araihama Harbour Transport
7-1942
195
195
Sakada Harbour Transport
7-1942
650
650
Nabetsu Harbour Transport
7-1942
1,000
500
137
Hakata Harbour Transport
7-1942
5,000
2,500
Notor Sailing Ship Transport Control
8-1942
550
550
Shiokama Harbour Transport
8-1942
950
950
Haahimohe Harbour Transport
8-1942
195
195
Sakai Harbour Transport
9-1942
720
720
Akita Harbour Transport
11-1942
180
180
Kimugaura Harbour Transport
12-1942
180
180
Atern Harbour Raft Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Nagoya Harbour Transport
12-1942
1,000
1,000
Yokkaichi Harbour Transport
12-1942
3,000
3,000
Kobe Ship Porterage
12-1942
4,05)
4,050
16
Osaka Ship Porterage
12-1942
30,00)
30,000
041 p141 bu
Yokohama Harbour Transport
12-1942
30,000
30,000
Tokyo Harbor Transport
12-1942
1,300
1,800
Osaka Raft
12-1942
5,000
5,000
Hirohata Harbour Transport
12-1942
25,000
25,000
Kammon Harbour Transport
12-1942
30,000
30,000
Kobe Harbour Transport

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
二1
Authorized
Capital
041 P142
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
bu
12-1942
2,500
2,500
Kausaki Ship Porterage
Wakamatsu Harbour Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
12-1942
3,000
3,000
Yokohama Ship Porterage
Tokyo Ship Porterage
12-1942
3,500
3,500
Atarn Harbour Transport Works
1-1943
4,500
4,500
Hakodate Harbour Transport
1-1943
3,500
3,500
1-1943
1,500
1,500
Tokyo Harbour Raft
3-1943
1,500
1,500
Nagoya Ship Porterage
Nittetsu Hanishi Harbour Transport
3-1943
1,000
1,000
4-1943
10,000
10,000
Kure Harbour Transport
5-1942
800
800
Otoru Coal Harbour Transport
6-1943
3,780
3,780
Shimizu Harbour Transport
6-1943
150
150
Oita Harbour Transport
Kushiro Harbour Transport
7-1943
2,000
2,000
1
Kushiro Harbour Coal Transport
7-1943
1,800
1,800
3
8
7-1943
2,500
2,500
Nagasaki Harbour Transport
7-1943
1,150
1,150
Muroran Coal Harbour Transport
7-1943
6,000
6,000
Muroran Harbour Transport
8-1943
1.400
1,400
Tsururuga Sea & Land Transport
8-1943
800
800
Nagoya Raft Works
8-1939
100,000
62,376
Dai Nippon Air Transportation
9-1937
100,420
100,420
Nippon Transportation
7-1941
60,000
25,000
Teito High Speed Transportation
12-1939
195
98
Nippon Controlled Sport Goods Dis.
9-1939
500
500
Tenkoku Medic 1 Gauze Mfg. Control
1-1940
500
500
Tenkoku Absorbent Cotton Mfg. Control
4-1940
500
500
Nippon Herbs Control
5-1940
195
195
Zenkoku Medical Material Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Tobu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Chubu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Seibu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1941
3,000
1,500
Nippon Medical Implements Production Control

=== Page 144 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Osaka Harbour Transport
12-1942
65,000
65,000
Kammon Ship Porterage
12-1942
2,500
2,500
Osaka Harbour Coal Transport
12-1942
15,000
15,000
Osaka River Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Amagasaki Harbour Transport
12-1942
6,700
6,700
Sakai Harbour Transport
12-1942
500
500
Fushimi Harbour Transport
12-1942
1,000
1,000
Nittesu Yawata Harbour Transport
12-1942
6,500
6,500
139
10 041 p143 bu

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.97)
Appendix XXV - continued
041
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Bstab-
tion (in
(in thous-
bu
lishment
thousand yen)
)and yen)
fimal
Nippon Medical Imploments Distribution Control
7-1941
5,000
3,750
Nippon Dental Supply Control
1-1942
300
300
Nippon Medical Care Public Corp.
6-1942
100,000
148,915
Zenkoku Sanitary Cotton Wholesale
11-1942
500
500
Zonkoku Medical Goods Control
12-1942
2,500
1,500
Housing Public Corp. (Eidan)
5-1941
100,000
56,724
SOURCE: Kigyo Tole1 Soran (1943) pp. 35-47.
140

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
IND-53
CONFIDENTIAL
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
JAPANESE FISHING INDUSTRY
Special attention is called to the fact that this document was
substantially completed prior to the surrender of Japan. Persons
using this document are cautioned that its recommendations were
written prior to the acceptance of the Potsdam Declaration and the
Instrument of Surrender. All recommendations must, accordingly,
be critically examined in the light of current U.S. policy.
September 1945
3045
JUmULn
16-031 Cover

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
POREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enexy Brarch
JAPANESE FISHING INDUSTRY
September 1945
CUNFIDENTIAL

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.98)
FORORD
Part I of this report contains a brief overall survey of the
Japanese prewar fishing industry, a summary of the wartime conditions
and the administration and organization of the industry, and recommen-
lations pertinent to Military Government administration. Part II
provides the background material basic to a full understanding of
Japanese fishing operations and the detailed planning of actual admin-
istration. Most of this part discusses the prewar industry, but the
last section pulls together all the available information concerning
wartime conditions.
Most of the data presented were taken from official and semi-
official Japanese sources. Not only were errors and inconsistencies
frequently detected within individual volumes, but many data from
different sources, supposedly reporting on the same subject, are irre-
concilable. In view of this it should be recognized that many errors
are known to occur in the report, but it is believed that the general
picture presented and most of the details are accurate.
UNFIDENT
16-031 P3 nobu

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.96)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pages
PART I
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
I
General Survey of the Industry
1 -4
II
Wartime Conditions of the Industry
5 - 8
Decline in Production and Supply
5 - 6
Wartime Distribution
6 - 8
Wartime Price Controls
8
III
Administration, Control and Organization of
the Industry
9 - 13
Prewar Period
9-12
Government Administration and Control
9 - 10
Organization
10 -12
Societies
10
Companies
10 -11
Associations
11 -12
Wartime Reorganization of the Industry
12-13
IV
Suggestions for Military Government Adminis-
tration
14 - 22
Overall Recommendations
14-19
Program for Early Period of Occupation
19 - 21
Employment of Japanese Administrative
Machinery and Personnel
22
PART II
BASIC BACKGROUND MATERIAL
I
Fishing Areas, Resources and Seasons
23 - 41
Hshing Areas
23 - 25
Fish Resources
25 - 30
Fishing Seasons
30 - 35
Areas and Seasons of Northern Region
by Species
31 - 35
Areas and Seasons of Central and Southern
Japan by Species
35 - 41
CONFIDENT
-山-
16-031 Pg bu

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Pages
II
Fishing Operations: Fishermen, Boats,
Methods and Production
42 - 118
Fishermen
42 - 47
Number
42 - 44
Distribution
44
Wages and Organization
44 - 47
Fishing Boats
48 - 54
Number and Type
48 - 53
Distribution
53 - 54
Fishing Ports
54 - 56
Fish Production by Regions
57
Coastal Fisheries
57 - 70
General
57 - 63
Methods and Gear
63 - 70
Sardine
65 - 67
Herring
67
Salmon
67 - 68
Cod
68
Mackerel
68
Tuna
68 - 69
Yellowtail
69
Tai
69
Other Species
70
Aquicul ture
70 - 78
General
70
Carp Culture
71 - 74
Eel Cul ture
75
Other Fish Culture
75
Shellfish Culture
77
Oyster Culture
78
Deep-Sea Fisheries
78 - 103
General
78 - 79
Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters
79 - 81
Tuna and Bonito Fishing
81 - 86
-ii-
16-031 P6 bu

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Contimued)
Pages
Trewling and Bottom Dragging
86 - 90
Trawling
86 - 89
Bottom Dragging
89 - 90
The Northern Fisheries
91 - 103
General
91 - 93
Fisheries in Soviet Waters
93 - 96
Floating Factory Fisheries
96 - 100
Northern Kurile Fisheries
101 -103
Fishing in Outlying Colonial Waters
103
Special Fisheries
103 - 118
Seaweed Production
103 - 107
Laminaria
105
Laver
106
Gelidium
107
Others
107
Whaling
107 - 115
Antarctic Operations
109 - 113
Coastal and Colonial Whaling
113 - 115
Sea Otters and Fur Seals
115 - 116
Sea Otters
115
Fur Seals
116
Pearl Culture
116-117
Other Products
118
Processing of Fishery Products
119 - 146
General
119-125
Production
119 - 123
Persons Employed
124 - 125
Drying, Salting and Smoking
125 -126
Freezing
127
Canning
127-140
Salmon Canning
132 - 133
Crab Canning
133- 136
Tuna Canning
137 - 138
Sardine Canning
138 - 139
Shellfish Canning
139 - 140
-i1i-
10-031 Py bu

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
TAHLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Pages
Fish Meal Productior
140 -143
Fish Oil Production
143 - 145
Seaweed Processing
145-146
Mamufacture of Other Marine Products
146
IV
Marketing and Consumption
147 -165
Domestic Marketing and Consumption
147-159
Domestic Marketing
147-149
Prices
149 -154
Consumption
154 -156
Balance of Supply
156 - 159
Foreign Trade
160 - 165
Exports
160-164
Canned Fish
161-163
Salted Fish
163
Dried Fish
163
Seaweeds
163 - 164
Fish Meal
164
Fish and Whale Oil
164
Fresh and Frozen Fish
164
Imports
164 - 165
V
Administration and Organization of the
Industry
166 -184
Government Administrative Organization
166 - 167
Central Government
166 -167
Prefectural Government
167
Governmental Activities
167-172
Licensing
167 -168
Taxation
168
Conservation Measures
168 -170
Aid to Societies and Associations
170
Research Activities
170
Bounties, Subsidies and Other Government
Aid
170 -172
Societies and Cooperatives
172-177
Fishery Societies (Suisan-kai)
172-174
Aquatic Products Societies (Suisan-kumiai)
174-175
Fishermen's Societies (Gyogyo-kumiai)
175 -176
Cooperatives
176-177
-1v-
16-031 P8 bu

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Pages
Companies
178 -181
Japan Marine Products Company
179-180
Nichiro Fishery Company
180 - 181
Hayaahikane and Company
181
Mitsubishi Trading Company
181
Associations
181 -183
Fishery Schools and Training
183 -184
VI
International Fishing Controversies and Agree-
ments
185-194
The Russo-Japanese Fishing Controveray
185 -188
Japanese-American Salmon Fishing Controversy
188 - 191
Whaling Controversy
191-192
The Fur Seal Controversy
193 -194
VII
Wartime Conditions of the Industry
195 - 209
Decline in Supply
195 - 198
Wartime Distribution
198 - 205
Wartime Price Control
205 - 206
Wartime Reorganization of the Industry
206 - 209
Administrative Reorganization
206 - 208
Reorganization of Companies and Other
Organizations
208 - 209
APPENDIX A
Details of Canned Salmon and Canned
Crab Production
210 - 216
APPENDIX B
Japanese Trade Statistics for Fish
and Fishing Products
217 - 231
APPENDIX C
Laws and Regulations Relating to
Fisheries
232 - 236
APPENDIX D
Large Japanese Fishery Companies As
of 1940 or 1941
237 - 238
APPENDIX E
Industries Related to Fishing Which
Will be Critical During Period of
Military Government
239-246
Selected List of References
247-250
-v-
16-031' P9 nobu

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.99)
TARLES
Pages
1. Total Fish Catch of Japan Proper, 1934 - 1940
2
2.
The Important Japanese Fieh by Family Groups
26 - 27
3.
Important Fish Landed in Japan
28
4.
Number of Persons Engaged in Fishing and
Aquiculture in Japan Proper
43
Number of Fishermen and Fishing Craft by Districts,
1937
45 - 46
6. Number of Fishing Craft by Type, 1936 - 1940
49
7.
Number of Fishing Craft
50
8.
Number and Tonnage of Large Japanese Fishing
Vessels, 1939
52
9.
Distribution of Japanese Vessels, 1938
53
10.
Important Fishing Ports by Districts
56
11.
Production of Fish, Shellfish and Crustaceans
by Regions, 1939
58 - 59
12.
Japanese Coastal Fishing Catch, 1934 - 1940
60
13.
Production of Coastal Fisheries, 1938-39
61
14.
Number of Establishments Engaged in Aquiculture,
Area and Value of Products
71
15.
Japanese Production of Aquiculture, 1936 - 1940
72
16.
Value of Aquiculture by Prefectures, 1937
73
17.
Number of Carp Rearing Hatcheries
74
18.
Production of "Deep-Bea Fisheries," 1936 - 1940
80
19.
. Production of Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters,
1936 - 1940
82
20. Production of Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters
by Species, 1939
82
21. Vessels and Crews Engaged in Deep-Sea Fishing
in Home Waters, 1935 - 1939
83
22. Production of Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters
byMethod, 1938
84
23.
Production from Japanese Trawling, 1935 - 1940
87
24.
Value of Japanese Northern Fisheries, 1936 - 1940
91
25.
Japanese Fisheries in Soviet Waters, 1936 - 1940
94 - 95
26.
Soviet Water Fishery
97
27.
Japanese Fishery Establishments in Siberia, 1939
98
28.
Japanese Factory Ship Fishing, 1935 - 1940
100
29.
Fisheries of Northern Kuriles
102
30.
Japanese Fishing in Cutlying Colonial Waters,
1935 -1939
104
-v1-
16-031 P11 bu

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLES
(Contimued)
Pages
61. Monthly Average Wholesale Prices for Various
153
Kinds of Fish, 1937
62. Estimated Surpluses and Deficits of Fish by
Regions
157 - 159
63. Japenese Exports of Fishery Products by Vslue,
1938 and 1939
162
64.
Number of Fishing Licenses by Districts at End
of March, 1937
169
65.
Japenese Governmental Expenditures for Fisheries,
1932-33 to 1934-35
171
66.
Societies Concerned with the Fishing Industry:
Number, Membere and Expenditures, 1928, 1930
and 1934 - 1937
173
67.
Japanese Fishing Companies, 1936 - 1941
179
68.
Fish Brought into Tokyo on August 26, 1944 and
Number of Persons Receiving Fish Rations
197a
69.
Control Agencies for the Distribution of Fish as
Reported in 1944
202 - 203
70.
Status of Rationing of Sea Food in the Large
Cities as of April 1944
204
71. Retail Fish Prices in a Tobata Store,
May 1942 - April 1943
207
72.
Official Maximum Selling Prices for Ground Dried
Fish, June 1944
207
-viii-
16-031 P13 nobu

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLES
(Continued)
Pages
31.
Seaweed Production, 1935 - 1940
105
32.
Japanese Thaling Operations
108
33.
Japanese Whaling Compared to World's Total
1930-31 to 1937-38
110
34.
Japanese Whaling in 1937-38 and Summer of 1938
111
35.
Ships Engaged in Japanese Antarctic Whaling,
1938-39
112
36.
Japanese Coastal Whaling, 1937 and 1938
114
37.
Japanese Coastal Whaling Operations, 1938
115
38.
Mamufactured Fishery Products of Japan
120
39.
Value of Manufactured Marine Products by Districts,
1937
121
40.
Value of Manufactured Fishery Products for Food
122
41.
Methods of Processing Used for Some Important
Marine Products
123
42.
Persons Employed ir Processing Marine Products,
1936 - 1940
124
43.
Processing of Fishery Products in Factories, 1938
125
44.
Freezing Plants and Capecities
128
45.
Production and Export of Canned Marine Products
130
46.
Japanese Production of Canned Marine Products
131
47.
Japanese Canned Salmon Pack, 1936
132
48.
Canned Crab Production of Japan
135
49.
Canned Tareba Crab Output, 1938
136
50.
Tuna Canneries in Japan
137
51.
1937 Production and Export of Japanese Canned
Sardines
139
52.
Output of Canned Shellfish, 1937
140
53.
Fish Fertilizer Production
141
54.
Production of Fish Meal. 1937
141
55.
Fish Oil Production in Japan
143
56.
Froduction of Fish Cils by Type in Japen
144
57.
Agar-agar Production
146
58.
Velue of Fish Sold in Major City Markets of
Japan, 1937
150
59. Volume of Fish Carried by Railroads in Various
Districts
151
60. Wholesale and Retail Frices of Fish in Tokyo,
1933 - 1935
152
-vii-
16031 P12 bu

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLES
(Contimued)
Pages
61. Monthly Average Wholesale Prices for Various
153
Kinds of Fish, 1937
62. Estimated Surpluses and Deficits of Fish by
Regions
157 - 159
63. Japenese Exports of Fishery Products by Vslue,
1938 and 1939
162
64.
Number of Fishing Licenses by Districts at End
of March, 1937
169
65. Japenese Governmental Expenditures for Fisheries,
1932-33 to 1934-35
171
66.
Societies Concerned with the Fishing Industry:
Number, Membere and Expenditures, 1928, 1930
and 1934 - 1937
173
67.
Japanese Fiehing Companies, 1936 - 1941
179
68.
Fish Brought into Tokyo on August 26, 1944 and
Number of Persons Receiving Fish Rations
197a
69. Control Agencies for the Distribution of Fish as
Reported in 1944
202 - 203
70. Status of Rationing of Sea Food in the Large
Cities as of April 1944
204
71. Retail Fish Prices in a Tobata Store,
May 1942 - April 1943
207
72. Official Maximum Selling Prices for Ground Dried
Fish, June 1944
207
-viii-
16-031 P13 nobu

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
FIGURES
Page Following
1. Sea Fisheries of Eastern Asia
23
2. Japanese Fishing Areas and Seasons
30
3. Principal Japanese Salmon Fisring Grounds
34
4. Principal Japanese Crab Fishing Grounds
34
5. Principal Japanese Sardine Fishing Grounds
36
6. Sardine Fishing Seasons
36
7. Principal Fishing Ports
55
8. Japanese and Russian Fisheries in the
Northwest Pacific
93
9. Japan Fish Producing Areas, 1939
156
-ix-
16-031 P15 nobu

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
Part I
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
16-031 P17 nobu

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.99)
I
GENERAL SURVEY OF THE INDUSTRY
The fishing industry in prewar years occupied an important
position among Japen's enterprises, being on the one hand, an indispensible
source of food and on the other, a vital factor in the nation's inter-
national accounts by furnishing & major item in the export trade. In
addition, the fisheries were of importance to agriculture in providing
fertilizer materiels and poultry feed, and to industry in providing oils
(for soap, glycerine and a host of other products) and various chemicals.
The total amount of marine products from operations based on Japan
proper in pre-war years exceeded that of any other country and accounted
for about 20-25 percent of the world's total. 1/ The annual production
of fish, shellfish, crustaceans and molluscs averaged more than 3.4 million
metric tons (Table 1) -- a production approximately equal to that of the
twenty-one European countries (including England and Norway) or about
three times the total United States production. 2 In addition seaweed
was taken in large quantities (about 450, 000 metric tons annually) and
whales and seals and pearl and pearl shell constituted other valuable
catches.
Engaged in the fishing induatries were almost l million Japanese --
estimated at 50 percent of the world's total. According to one estimate
20 percent of the population of Japan was engaged in or was directly or
indirectly supported by fishing activities, a larger percentage than in
1 Including all Japanese Empire areas the percentage was about 30-40
percent in the immediate prewar yeare.
2 Including all Japanese Empire areas the totel production was almost
5million tons.
LUNFIDENTAL
16-031 P19 bu

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1
(1000 metric tons)
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Coastal Catch
Fish
2,227
1,929
2,143
1,854
1,685
1.745
1,511
Shellfish
180
205
152
141
117
113
176
Crustaceans and
Molluscs
190
136
158
153
212
228
227
Total
2,597
2,270
2,453
2,148
2,014
2,086
1,914
"Deep Sea" Catch
b
Home waters
727
815
975
862
788
785
793
Korean waters
65
110
48
36
24
18
n.a.
Formosan waters
一
1
2
n.a.
Kwantung waters
4
6
8
5
5
4
3
South Sea Mandated
area
n.a.
n.a.
2
4
4
3
n.a.
Soviet waters c/
108
75
86
83
72
77
n.a.
Trewling
52
53
52
50
38
36
34
Total
956
1,059
1,171
1.041
931
925
n.a.
Aquiculture
a/
100
122
121
137
116
n.a.
n.a.
n.a. f n.a. /
Grand Total
3,653 3,451
3,745
3,326
3,061
n.a. - not available
a These figures represent the total production of fish, shellfish, crusta-
ceans and molluscs, i.e. the total "fish" catch which could be used as food.
Seaweed, whales and seals are excluded as is the production of Karafutc
waters and floating canneries for which catch data are not available. The
figures indicated as not available are insignificant except those for 1940.
The totala are made from all available official figures. Not only do the
total figures represent production, but are thought to almost approximate
domestic consumption. Although Japan had sizable fishing exports in prewar
years these are thought to be offset here by the omission of the production
of floating canneries, the crab production of Soviet waters and the fish
imports from colonial areas (chiefly Korea). Although erports loom large
in Japan's trade by value the actual volume is small as compared to the total
catch. Domestic consumption during the immediate prewar years appears to
have been about 3 million metric tons.
b/ Includes only the catch in these waters from operations based on Japan
proper. In the fisheries of the Russian waters there are land bases on
Soviet territory, but the boats sail sach season from Japan. The fisheries
listed here are often called the "pelagic" or "deep sea" fisheries of Japan
although many of the operations are not deep sea fishius.
c/ Does not include crab production.
d/ Excluding amanori (seaweed), goldfish, pearl oyster, pearl shell and
"other".
Estimated at 3,130 for 1939 and 2,950 for 1940.
-2-
16 031 P20 bu

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.98)
any other nation. These fishermen used more than 360,000 boats, or
45 percent of the world's total mumber of fishing boats.
The annual per capita consumption of fish for food in prewar years
was more than 60 pounds, higher than in any other country. Lacking a
significant livestock rearing industry Japan's population depended upon
the fisheries to furnish almost all of their animal protein. Rice and
fish with some green vegetables and fruit formed the staple diet of the
population. Marine plants were also an important food item.
As the statistics cited above indicate, aquatic industries occupied
a position of far greater importance in Japan than in most countries where
fishing is looked upon as the poor relation of other much more important
industries and is overshadowed by them.
Japanese fishing was largely concentrated in the coastal waters of
Japan proper and the Pacific waters east of Japan, but operations were also
carried on in the Yellow Sea, the China Sea, along the coasts of Korea
(Chosen) and Karafuto (Japanese Sakhalin) and around the margins of the
Okhotak Sea. Of lesser importance were fisheries of tropical waters,
Bering Sea and the Antarctic whaling region.
Much of the fishing industry, particularly that of the "deep sea",
was modern large-scale business in which control was centralized in a
relatively few corporations. The coastal fisheries, however, were largely
operated by very small units; four-fifths of the fleet in l938 was still
composed of small craft less than 5 tons propelled by oars, sails or small
motors and operating close to shore.
-3
16-031 P21 bu

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
Some of the processing was likewise in the hands of large
companies and closely coordinated with the fishing activities. This
was especially true of the companies producing chiefly for the export
markets such as those operating in the northern fisheriss. The drying
and salting of fish for home markets although done partly by the large-
scale operators was also carried on in many small units.
The Japanese government has been active in the fishing industry --
in research, in training and in regulating the operations as well as in
furthering the rapid and vigorous erpansion of fishing into more
distant seas. Government control permeates all parts of the industry
and has been tightened during the war period.
Japan's widespread fishing operations have encountered controversies
with other nations -- with the Soviet Union in its Northern fisheries, with
the United States in its expansion of salmon fishing and with several
nations regarding fur seal and whaling operations.
Although this guide deals with all aspects of the fisheries,
either in or based upon Japan proper, emphasis is pointed toward the
role of the industry in supplying food for domestic consumption. This
was the primary importance of the industry in prewar years, although
often overlooked by Westerners who were concerned with the Japanese
export trade. Likewise the core of the fishery problems confronting
military government authorities will be supplying food for the Japanese
population.
-4
16· 031 P22 bu

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
II WARTIME CONDITIONS OF THE INDUSTRY
Decline in Production and Supply
During the war period the fishing industry has suffered seriously
and thie has, in turn, affected the food supply of the Japanese people.
It has been estinated that the 1943-44 fish production was 2,360,000
metric tons and that of 1944-45 about 1,650,000 tons. In recent months
the production has been drastically curtailed by naval operations close to
the home islanda.
The reduction in supply available for domestic consumption from
about 3,000,000 tons in prewar years to 1,650,000 tons in 1944-45 can be
expected to have seriously affected the Japanese diet, reducing anmual
per capita consunption from more than 60 pounds to about 40 pounds. This
loss in a major protein food is important although it has been partly
mitigated by increased soybean imports.
The decline in production has been due largely to developing short-
ages of boats, manpower and equipment, but has also been related to the
government pricing of food fish. Many fishing vessele were commandeered
by the armed forces, others were taken for transport purposes in the coastal
trade and the inter-Empire trade, and some of the smaller boats were used
for landing operations in China. The conscription of large nunbers of
fishermen, the removal of others from the industry for the operation of
commercial boats and the transfer of some to more lucrative war industries
resulted in a manpower shortage. Boats using Diesel oil or gasoline have
had their operations restricted because of fuel shortages; rationing of
-5
16-031 P23 bu

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
fuel for fishing boats began as early as August 194l. Shortages of nets,
boat repair parts and other equipment were reported in l94l and became
widespread efter 1943.
At first the outlying fisheries -- Northern waters, trawling and
deep sea in "home waters" -- were most affected by these shortages, but
the production of coastal fishermen also declined despite attempts to keep
their production as high as possible. Output of the coastal fisheries
was noticeably reduced in many areas by late l943 because of these war-
time shortages. In addition to these shortages there has been dissatis-
faction among coastal fishermen with the prices established by the
government and in recent months fear of destruction by Allied naval
operations further curtailed fishing. Aguiculture production, although
encouraged throughout the war period, is thought to have increased little,
if at all, due to manpower shortages.
Wartime Distribution
In late l94l fish was first rationed locally in those areas of
Japan where supplies were short and irregular and in early 1942 the Food
Control Bill provided partial control of marine foods. This bill, de-
signed to strengthen government control of food, established a control
structure national in scope and under the general supervision of the
Bureau of Food Cortrol of the Ministry of Agriculture and Conmerce. 3
3 In the Cabinet reorganization of November 1943 the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry and the Ministry of Commerce and Industry were
combined to form the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce. The new name
is used in this section.
6
16-031 P24 bu

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
The actual control of the distribution of marine products was by control
associations designated by prefectural governments. Under the controls
established at this time emphasis was placed on seven consumption regions --
the six large cities -- Tokyo, Osaka, Yokohama, Kyoto, Kobe and Nagoya --
and Northern Kyushu. Elsewhere counties (guns) were designated as consuming
areas. At this time salted and dried fish were mentioned as the most
important items under control. Later eleven "designated consuming cities"
for fresh fish and vegetables were named -- Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya,
Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe, Hiroshima, Kure, Shimonoseki, Northern Kyushu and
Sasebo. For these areas the Central Agricultural Association (Chuo Nogyo
Kai) made shipping plans and monthly quotas and these, approved by the
Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce, were sent to local associations.
After August 1944, however, the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce
directly notified local governments of amounts needed and its shipping
plans, making the local government authorities responsible for shipping
the needed quantities of fresh fish.
Since much of the rationing control of fish during the war period
has been local rather than nationwide, the per capita allowance is thought
to have varied considerably within Japan and since transportation and dis-
tribution have been impaired some areas can be expected to have sufficient
supplies whereas other areas, particularly the large cities, have suffered
severe shortages. In Tokyo, for example, shortages were common in late
1943 and at times distribution is known to have been limited to two days
or even one day per week.
-7-
16-031 P25 bu

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.98)
Despite the control of food distribution illegal operations are
widespread'and many people who have the means supplement their rations
through black market purchases. Fish is known to enter into the black
market in considerable amounts.
Wartime Price Controls
A cabinet ordinance in August 1940 provided for price control
for perishable foods, including fish and shellfish. Wholesale prices are
fixed by prefectural governments with the advice of a price fixing
committee, the whole system being administored by the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Commerce. Details of fish prices during the war are not
available, but when prices were first set they were reduced below the
free market price prevailing at the time. Up to April 1943 only minor
upward revisions had been made. Fishermen's complaints that the govern-
ment prices were too low prevailed and were one factor in both the
reduced supply and in the large black market sales. In August 1944 the
prices of fresh and salted fish were reported to have been revised up-
wards by more than 20 percent.
8-
16-031 P26bu

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
III ADMINISTRATION, CONTROL AND ORGANIZATION OF THE INDUSTRY 4/
Pre-War Period
Government Administration and Control. The Imperial government
administered the fishing industries of the coastal waters, the high seas
and the interior waters through the Fisheries Bureau (Suisan Kyoku), one
of six bureaus of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (Norinsho).
This bureau regulated and licensed certain fisheries such as trawling,
whaling, factory ship operations and fur sealing. It supervised and
aided the fishery associations and societies; it was active in fishery
research, in conservation measures and in education. The compilation and
publication of national fishery statistics was also carried on by this
central bureau.
Even prior to the war there was hardly any phase of the fishing
industry which was not subject to control, either direct or indirect by
the Imperial government. In addition to the direct regulation of certain
fisheries as mentioned above, the government exercised control through
the central associations of the various fishery organizations. These
central associations included associations to which companies dealing with
certain phases of the industry were forced to belong as well as the
central associations of fishing societies and cooperatives. In order to
further centralize its control the government also sponsored, in the
immediate prewar period, the amalgamation of many small fishing companies
to form large corporations.
4 See pages166-184 for further details. for prewar period and pages 198-
209 for war period.
-9-
16-031 P27 bu

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
The prefecturel governments, most of which maintained separate
fisheries sections, regulated the local licensing and supervised the
local organizations. Thus, they had direct control over those village
fishermen who fished the coastal waters. In many cases, the prefectural
governments alco engaged in research and educetional activities.
Organization. All aspects of the Japanese fishing and related
industries were highly organized. In general the organizations may be
divided into three types: (1) societies, of which there were several
kinds; (2) companies; and (3) associatione.
Societies. Fishery societies (suisan-kai), aquatic
products s ci ties (suisan-kumiai) and fishermen's societies (gyogyo-
kumiai) were threr types of societies for fishermen and those interested
in the industry. These were all set up under law and the central
government which gave them aid also had considerable control over
them. Some of these societies were principally aimed at promoting
the common intereets of those engaged in production, manufecture and
sale of aquatic products whereas others were mainly concerned with
economic aspects of individual members. In the coastal fisheries the fisher
men's societies (eyogyo kumiai) were perhaps the most important type
of organization; these originally formed to handle the "fishing rights"
of the villages, in many cases also undertook cooperative marketing.
purchasing and credit arrangements.
Companies. Although there were several hundred fishing
companies in 1939, two large fishing companies, both of which were the
-10-
16-031 P28 bu

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
result of government sponsored mergers, dominated the large scale commer-
cial deep sea fisheries in the immediate prewar years: the Nippon Suisan
Kabushiki Kaisha (Japan Marine Products Company) and the Nichiro Gyogyo
Kabushiki Kaisha (Nichiro Fishing Company).
The Nippon Suisan was capitalized at 93 million yen. It not only
operated all the floating crab canneries in the northern seas but controlled
three-fourths of the steam trawler industry, most of the Antarctic and
local whaling and 20 percent of the exports of marine products.
The Nichiro Company, capitalized at 87 million yen, controlled vir-
tually all the salmon fishing in Soviet waters and through its various
subsidiaries controlled most of the rest of the salmon fishing industry
as well as cod fishing and the shore-based crab fishing.
Not only fishing but a large part of the processing, particularly
the canning of marine products, was carried on by these two companies or
their subsidiaries.
The Mitsubishi Shoji K. K. (Mitsubishi Trading Company) was the
leading firm in exports.
At the top of the fishery companies one can distinguish among
others the well-known family firms of Mitsui and Mitsubishi. The Man-
churian Heavy Industries Development Corporation is the principal share-
holder of Nippon Suisan K. K.
Associations. All aspects of the industry -- fishing, pro-
cessing and marketing -- were coordinated into associations. The fishery
organizations were coordinated through the Dai Nippon Suisankai (the
Fisheries Societies of Japan), the Teikoku Suisankai (Imperial Fishery
-11-
16 031 P29 bu

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
Society or the National Association of Fisheries) and the Central Asso-
ciation for Fishermen's Cooperative Societies. The companies engaged
in mamufacturing, particularly those producing for the export market, were
united into such associations as the Canned Food Association of Japan,
Canned Crab Packers and Manufacturers' Association, the Fish Meal Pro-
ducers and Exporters Association, etc.
These associations, government-sponsored and operating under a
Fisheries Association Law promulgated in l92l, provided one more point
where the government exercised control.
Wartime Reorganisation of the Industry
All phases of the fishing industry were subject to government control
prior to the war but since 1942 several reorganizations have brought much
closer control.
In late 1942 and early 1943 the deep sea fishing industry was re-
organized so that there is only one big enterprise operating in these
fisheries -- the Imperial Fishing Control Company (Teikoku Suisan Tosei
Kaisha). This company, formed with a capital raised by the leading fishing
companies, lets out boats and gear to the four branch companies, operates
cold storage plants and grants necessary credits to the branch companies --
the Northern Pacific Fishing Control Company, the Japan-Soviet Fishing
Control Company, the Japanese Pelagic Fishing Company and the Western
Pacific Control Company. The present relation of these branch companies,
which were formed by the merger and realignment of the large existing
companies, to such parent companies as Mitsui and Mitsubishi is not clear.
(For earlier relationships of the prewar companies see pages l0-ll.)
-12-
16-031 P30 Du

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
Although coastal fishing, drag net fishing by small boats, and
tuna and bonito fishing did not come under this reorganization, in 1943
these were all to be reorganized with coastal fishing to be placed under
" a central fishing federation". 5/ Thus, by these reorganizations fish
production was brought under centralized control. Distribution and prices,
as already indicated, were also controlled.
During the war changes in the administrative organization of the
government affecting fisheries or the distribution of marine products in
one way or another were numerous but full dotails are not available. In
October and November 1943 the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry merged
with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to form a Ministry of Agriculture
and Commerce (Noshosho). In this reshuffle the Fisheries Bureau seems
to have been taken over intact by the new Ministry. New wartime bureaus,
established under the Ministry of Agricuiture and Commerce, however, have
simultaneously or successively dealt with some phase of fish produotion,
distribution and pricing. Included in these are the Bureau of Food
Control, the Commodity Price Bureau (Bukka Kyoku), the Livelihood Commodity
Bureau, and the Resources Bureau (Shizai Kyoku).
5 Although no further definite statement concerning this reorganization
is available there are indications that it took place.
-13-
16-031 P31 bu

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
IV SUGGESTIONS FOR MILITARY GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATION
Overall Recoamendations
Policy principles for the Japanese fisheries during the period
of military government are: 6
1. Japan should produce such fishery products as are required
for domestic consumption.
2. The military government should assist in reestablishing pro-
duction facilities to the fishing and processing industries and facilities
for the distribution of fishery products in order to meet domestic con-
sumption requirements.
3. Fishery production for export should be undertaken only if
facilities, equipment, gear and manpower available are needed less urgently
to meet domestic consumption requirements than for produets to (a) supply
United Nations with animal proteins and oil or (b) secure foreign exchange
for essential imports.
4. The affiliations of the Japanese fishing, fish-processing and
fish-exporting industries with large combines should be severed. In
general, there should be wide distribution of ownership, management and
control within the fishing industry and allied industries.
5. Japanese fishing near the American continents, island possess-
ions of the United States and in strategic areas should be prohibited.
The prohibited zones should be sufficiently wide to assure effective
enforcement.
6 These policy principles which conform to those submitted to SWNCC by
the State Department are basic for the entire period of military occupa-
tion. Operations which are started under these principles by military
government authorities should be continued, with modifications as the
conditions warrant, by any subsequent allied control authority.
-14-
16-031 P32 bu

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
6. Japanese fishing operations should conform strictly to
provisions of international agreements of which the Allied countries
are parties.
The first principle above, in the production of sufficient fish-
ery products for domestic consumption 7/, is developed with consideration,
on the one hand, of relieving the United Nationa in feeding the Japanese
population during a period of critical food shortages in the United
Nations and liberated areas, and, on the other hand, of providing useful
and customary occupation for a large number of Japanese workers. The
level of domestic food consumption is yet to be determined by military
authorities. Total caloric consumption levels for the period of occupa-
tion of 1600 and 2000 are still being discussed. As soon as a decisiou
is reached concerning the level of total food consumption and the part
fish will play in this, quotas necessary for domestic fish supplies should
be established. Because of the importance of fish as protein food in
the Japanese diet, these quotas can be expected to be above present
production.
The second principle follows from the first,since the extent to
which the Japanese fisheries can produce following the cessation of
hostilities will be dependent primarily upon the reconditioning and re-
placement of fishing boats and gear and the provision of fuel and supplies.
In the rehabilitation of the fisheries the coastal fisheries and aquicul-
ture should be given primary attention and insofar as practicable these
 Domestic consumption as used here means consumption by the occupying
forces as well as the Japanese population.
-15-
16-031 P33 bu

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
should provide all the necessary marine products. Although it might be
advantageous to reestablish and develop the larger scale deep sea fishing,
trawling, the Northern waters fisneries and fishing in colonial waters,
it aprears practicable to give first attention and emphasis throughout
the period of military government to the coastal fisheries and aguiculture
because: (1) in the past these fisheries have provided the great bulk
of Japanese requirements; (2) the fishing and processing operations are
simple and require equipment and facilities the major portion of which
might be produced domestically; (3) problems of rights to the fisheries
will be largely avoided since the majority of vessels engaged in the
coastal fisheries stay within thirty miles of shore: (4) the coastal
fisheries are largely communal in character and not dominated by large
companies; (5) it can be expected that a large percentage of the small
boats will be available whereas a considerable number of the larger ones
will have been destroyed.
The deep sea fisheries in home waters, trawling, fishing in Soviet
waters and in colonial waters should be exploited to provide products to
the extent that the coastal fisheries and aguiculture are unable to meet
domestic requirements. Shortages of small boats and the necessary equip-
ment for the immediate full exploitation of the coastal fisheries may
make it desirable to operate some of the larger vessels which may be
available and for which the necessary equipment is also at hand. Also,
since the demareation between "coastal fishing" and "deep-sea fishing in
home waters" is merely an arbitrary one, it may well be practicable to
-16
16031 P34 bu

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.99)
permit some of the latter operations. For example, the off-shore
sardine fisheries which are efficient producers and not carried on in
distant waters might be permitted to resume operations. In general,
however, emphasis should be on the coastal fisheries and aguiculture.
These should be worked as fully as the available equipment permits and
as is consistent with conservation regulations. 8
In the reestablishment of processing facilities for marine products,
attention should be given to the drying and salting of fish and the pre-
paraticn of seaweed. Fish canneries should not receive undue emphasis
for canned fish is normally consumed only in small quantities by the
Japanese population.
A workable system of distribution of fish and other marine products
during the period of military occupation is of utmost importance. The
system of distribution and rationing during the war period has not worked
particularly well and with final defeat and surrender this may be in a
stage of collapse. A plan for regulated and equitable distribution of
food fish is as essential as the restoration of production.
The severing of fishery companies from large parent organizations
(such as the Mitsui and Mitsubishi Combines) is recommended as a step
in the breakdown of the large Japanese combines which control much of the
non-coastal industry. The fishing corporations affiliated with such
 Jepanese regulations (both national and local) designed for conserva-
tion of marine resources should be observed by the military government
authorities. Coastal fisheriesof some areas are known to have been depleted
and this has often been given as one reason why the Japanese fishermen
have gone far afield into foreign waters.
-17-
16-03: P35 bu

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.99)
combines, are primarily in the large scale modern operationa such as the
northern fisheries, trawling and deep sea operations and in the marine
product export business. If the prewar corporate relations are existlig
at the time of occupation the fishing companies should be severed from
these parent combines; this does not necessarily mean that the fishing
companies themselves should be broken down, although in view of the
recent organization into large government controlled companies this may
also be desirable.
The curtailment of Japanese fishing operations near the American
continents, island possessions of the United States and in strategic
areas is designed both as a security measure and as a step in checking
Japanese fishery interests, which had reached far afield in distant
waters just previous to the war. Until further international under-
standings are reached regarding nations' use of fish resources in foreign
or "open" waters, Japanese fishing in such foreign areas should be
stopped; certainly such operetions should not be permitted prior to a
peace settlement.
The last principle affects the Japanese Antarctic whaling and
the north Pacific sealing operations. Although Japan has never been a
party to the international control of Antarctic whaling if Japan is
allowed to resume these operations because of shortages in fats and oils,
its activities should strictly conform to the provisions laid down by
-18
16·031 P36 bu

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.99)
the international conventions to which the United States is a party. 9/
Since the International Fur Seal Treaty is one designed for the conserva-
tion of this resource until the facts as to the condition of the Japanese
seal herd is established, any sealing which may be authorised by the
military government should be undertaken in conformity with sound con-
servation principles.
Program for Early Period of Occupation
The major problems of the early period of occupation, that is the
period of military government control, will be to restore the production
of the coastal fisheries, to maintain and perhaps increase the production
from agriculture, and to establish a system of distribution of marine
foods.
The restoration of the coastal fisheries will require:
1. inventory of boats and gear
2. the return of requisitioned vessels to their former owners
3. the working out, in cooperation with naval authorities, of a
system of permits and security regulations to take the piace of Japanese
wartime restrictions
4. aid in repairing and replacing boats, gear and other equipment
5. allocation of fuel necessary for the operation of the powered
fishing boats.
 The whaling agreements in effect with respect to the United States
at the present time are: (1) the Convention for the Regulation of Whaling
signed at Geneva September 24, 1931, Treaty Series 880; (2) Agreement for
the Regulation of haling, and Final Act, signed at London June 8, 1937,
Treaty Series 933; (3) Protocal Amending the Agreement for the Regulation
of Whaling, signed at London June 1937 and Final Act of the Conference,
signed at London June 24, 1938, Treaty Series 944.
-19-
16-031 P37 bu

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
The seizure of records should yield essential data concerning
the first item although the large amount of destruction of boats likely
to occur immediately preceding military occupation can be expected to
necessitate an inventory of current ccnditions. General rules for
registration of boats for all of Japan should be worked cut, but the
actual inventory should be carried out on a prefectural, or even more
local, basis.
Strict war emergency fishing restrictions are expected to be in
force in the period immediately preceding military occupation; during
this period it is likely that fishing, even in the near coastal waters
will be greatly curtailed if not brought to a virtual halt. The relax-
ation of these emergency restrictions and the establishment of new ones
will be basic to the revival of the industry. A set of regulations shaped
so as to permit sound naval security should be drawn up as soon after
military ocoupation as possible. If the territory is occupied in
sections, emergency restrictions in those areas occupied may need to be
relaxed before the general regulations are promulgated. In working out
these regulations and the permits to be used military government
authorities should review the experiences of occupation authorities in
Italy and Secily in order to take advantage of their experience for those
aspects which are applicable to Japan. 10
10 Regulations regarding night fishing, for example, should be reviewed.
It has been reported that night fishing has been prohibited in Japan.
Releasing or modifying this restriction may add to the coastal production.
-20-
16-031 P38 bu

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.99)
It is expected that a large number of the small fishing boats
will be available but that motors and parts will require repairs and re-
placements; priorities should be granted for these, for fish nets and
other gear, for paint, net preservatives and for fuel oil required for
the operation of powered boats. In order to get the coastal fisheries
into quick producticn it is suggested that the possibility pf providing
occupying forces with a minimum basic supply of gear (particularly
netting) be seriously considered.
In maintaining and expanding aguiculture production, the distri-
bution of young fish should be arranged, preferably through the prefectural
experiment stations and fishery societies which normally carry on this
function. In order to encourage this production quotas might be
established. 11
For processing by drying and salting, the common methods for
domestic markets, salt will be the major article in critical supply. 12/
Fish processing should be afforded a high priority in the demand upon the
available supplies of this commodity.
It is expected that the distribution of fish for food will be
handled in conjunction with the distribution of other foodstuffs. The
main problems involved will be the seizure and inventory of food stocke
and the control and distribution of emergency rations and, later, with
the development of a food policy, the establishment of fish transport,
distribution and pricing systems.
11 These quotas should be reasonable ones. Some of the wartime quotas
for aquiculture are thought to be unrealistically high.
12/ See Appendix D.
-21-
18-031 P39 bu

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.99)
Employment of Japanese Administrative Machinery and Personnel
It will be desirable to utilize existing Japanese administrative
machinery and personnel wherever their use will not interfere with the
objectives of occupation authorities. This is recommended with a view
to greater efficiency because (1) the local administrative structure
and personnel have erperience in dealing with the problems peculiar to
Japanese fisheries and the processing and distribution of marine foods,
and (2) the number of Allied personnel required will be reduced, desir
able since there are few Allied experts in the field of Japanese fisheries.
Recent political appointees (which can be assumed to be upholders
of totalitarian views) should, of course, be removed from key positions
in the government agencies dealing with fisheries and food production.
But many of the permanent Civil Service employees and many of the real
fishery experts whose political views may not be hostile to the peaceful
and efficient carrying out of military government control measures may
prove of invaluable assistance. Some of this personnel may be found An
the Fisheries Bureau in Tokyo while others may be located in the prefect-
ural bureaus dealing with marine products at the fisheries experiment
stations in the various fishery organizations and at the fisheries
schools. Local advisors will be essential in the actual administration
of the fishery program at the local level. The various Japanese fishery
societies which touch upon every phase of the work and life of Japanese
coastal fishermen might, with proper safeguards, be used in promulgating
and carrying out the fishery program. For this purpose the gyogyo kumiai
formed by the amall-scale village fishermen and the cooperatives which
have grown from these organizations might be particularly helpful.
-22
16-031 P40 Du

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
Part II
BASIC BACKGROUND MATERIAL
16-031 P41 nobu

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
I FISHING AREAS, RESOURCES AND SEASONS
Fishing Areas
Along the eastern coast of Asia from Bering Sea on the north
almost to Australia on the south is one of the world's richest fishing
regions. In this vast area of the Pacific extending through 650 of
latitude and east as far as the l80th meridian the Japanese carry on
their fishing operations. Other people bordering these waters fish
their local grounds but none have spread their operations far afield as
have the Japanese.
Within this western Pecific fishing area, the Japanese operations
are most intensively developed in the coastal waters of Japan proper, in
the Pacific immediately east of the main islands, in the Yellow Sea and
the East China Sea, along the Japan Sea coasts of Korea and Karafuto, and
around the margins of the Sea of Okhotsk (Figure 1). Of secondary impor-
tance are the tropical waters of the Pacific Mandated Islands and Indo-
nesia and the cold waters of Bering Sea. Outside the western Pacific
area Japanese carry on Antarctic whaling and have also operated fishing
vessels off the coasts of Alaska, British Columbia, Mexico, Central
America and South America of the Western Hemisphere and also in Indian
waters of the Far East.
In the areas described above as those in which Japanese fisheries
are most intensively developed the natural conditions of water depths
and ocean currents are favorable to marine life. Except for the Japan
-23
16-031 P43 nobu

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.94)
116
120
124
129
132
140
144
SEA FISHERIES OF EASTERN ASIA
RANGE OF
PRINCIPAL FISHING GROUNDS
CERTAIN KINDS
SEA
OFi
OKNOTSK
INDICATED BY LETTER
Areas of grestest estivity
S Serdmee
Areas fiahed by amall dreggore
H Herring
T Tel (See Bream)
Offahere fishng fer
B Buri (Menhaden)
M Meckerel
C cod
VALUE OF CATCH
U S S R
SOO OOO Yen
2000 000 Yen
 Ooo Ooo Yen
SCALE
000
200
300
400 MI
100
800
300
400 Km
HOKKAIDO
MANCHURIA
40
SEA
OF
JAPAN
36
G
KOREA
36
YELLOW
SE
HONSHU
C
CHINA
SHIKOKU
32
32
EAST
CHINA
SEA
20
C
ze
0
BONIN
ISLANDS
F
4
24
00
24
FORMOSA
Total Cotch of all
the Mandated Istands
80
20
120
124
128
132
136
140
144
148
MARCH
1942
COMPILED
AND
DRAWN
DIVISION
COI

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Sea which is relatively deep, most of the waters bordering Asia from
Kamchatka to Formosa (Taiwan) are shallow, a condition conducive to pro-
lific marine life. Although the continental shelf around Japan proper
is not large, within the area of intensive and secondary Japanese
operations the continental shelf is estimated at approximately 2,000,000
square miles. 13/
It is also of significance that in the waters around Japan ocean
currents from tropical and polar latitudes converge, for this too creates
a favorable environment for fish. The warm current, the Kuroshio or
Japanese Current, coming from the South Sees washes the eastern coast of
Kyushu, Shikoku and southern Honshu then flows northeastward to central
Honshu where it chenges its direction to the east. A branch stream of the
warm Kuroshio enters the Japan Sea by way of Tusima Strait, washes the
Japan Sea coast and partly reaches eastern Karafuto and Sakhalin by way
of the west coast of Hokkaido, entering the Okhotak Sea through Soya Strait.
The cold Oyashio Current flows south from Bering Sea along the Kurile
Islands and washing the east coast of Hokkaido, approaches the northeastern
coast of the mainland of Japan to meet the warm Kuroshio. In the Japan
Sea a cold current (Liman Current) which flows westward along the coast
of Soviet Russia continues southward along the Korean coast to meet warm
currents in Tusima Strait.
The areas of marked convergence, and therefore of the mixing of
unlike waters, have the most abundant plankton and marine life. The
13 Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of the Japan Times
and Mail, 1939)
-24
1e-031 P45 bu

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
greatest zone of convergence and mi ture of waters in the western
Pacific extends from about 360 N. latitude off the east coast of Honshu
northeastward toward Hokkaido and the Kurile Islands; this area is one
of the most important of all Japanese fishing grounds. Likewise currents
converge in the Japan Sea, also an area of sizable fisheries.
The power of the ocean currentaaries with the seasons. The warm
current, strong in summer, flows farther north in that season; the cold
current which is more powerful in winter comes farther south in that
season. This fish of the warm waters may be seen in summer at the same
places as fish of the cold waters are seen in winter.
Fish Resources
In view of the extensive latitudinal range of Japan, the confluence
of warm and cold currents, and the vast areas of continental shelf, it is
not surprising that the Japanese catch has great variety. The kinds of
fish living in Japanese waters, even with closely related species grouped
together, number 8,000; according to strict scientific distinctions the
mumber of species is reported to be about 20, 000. More than 400 kinds
are used for food or are otherwise commercially important. Table 2 lists
the species having large economic value according to scientific families;
Table 3 lists the twenty-four most important kinds of fish landed in Japan
in l936 by order of weight giving the Japanese and English names.
Certain varieties are most abundant in the cold northerly waters
whereas others are most abundant in the warm subtropical waters. In the
mixed waters between, both cold-water and warm-water species are caught.
-25
18031 P46 bu

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 2
The Important Japanese Fish by Family Groups
I Clupeoid Fiah
Herring -- Clupea pallasii
Sardine (pilchard) -- Sardina melanosticta
Anchovy - Engraulis japonicus
Round herring -- Etrumeus micropus
II Scombroid Fish
Bonito (oceanic skipjack) -- Katsuowonus pelanys
Tuna (several kinds)
Albacore -- Germo alalunga
Blue-fin tune - Thunnus orientalis
Yellow-fin tuna -- Neothunnus macropterus
Mebachi (mebati) -- Parathunnus mebachi
Mackerel — Scomber japonicus
Frigate mackerels - Auxis spp.
Seer-fish -- Cybium spp.
III Salmonoid Fish
Salmon
King or chinook salmon -- Oncorhynchus tschawytscha
Red salmon -- Oncorhynchus nerka
Silver salmon - Oncorhynchus kisutsch
Humpback or pink salmon -- Oncorhynchus gorbuscha
Chum or dog salmon -- Oncorhynchus keta
Salmon or Salmon trout -- Salmo spp.
Smelt -- Oemerus dentex
Surf smelt -- Hypomesus olidus
Chars or Dolly Varden trouts -- Salvelinus spp.
IV Gadoid Fish
Cod -- Gadus macrocephalus
Alaskan pollack -- Theragra chalcogramma (Gadus chalcogramma)
V Carangidae
Yellowtail -- Seriola quinqueradiata
Horse mackeral - Trachurus japonicus
Jacks - Caranx spp.
VI Sparidae (Sea breams)
Sea bream or porgy - Pagrus major
Pagrus cardinalis (Evynnis cardinalis)
Pagrus tumifrons (Taius tumifrons, Dentex tumifrons)
-26-
18-031 P47 bu

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 2 (Continued)
The Important Japanese Fish by Family Groups
VII Sworafish and Spearfish
Sworafish -- Xiphias gladius
Spearfish or marlin -- Makaira spp.
Spearfish -- Tetrapturus augustirostris
Sailfish -- Istiophorus orientalis
Note: Numerous other species of fish as well as shellfish and
crustaceans are taken in large quantities.
-27-
16031 P48 bu

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 3
Important Fish Landed in Japen
1.
iwashi -- sardine, pilchard, anchovy
2.
nishin -- herring
3.
tara - cod
4.
saba -- mackerel
5.
sake -- salmon
6.
masu -- trout
7.
buri - yellowtail (amberfish)
8.
maguro -- tuna
9.
aji -- yellow mackerel
10.
karei and hirame - flounders
11.
katsud -- bonito
12.
tai - porgy, sea bream, red snapper
13.
fuka — shark
14.
samma - mackerel -- pike
15.
bora - mullet
16.
tobi-uo -- flying fish
17.
konoshiro
18.
sawara - Spanish mackerel
19.
kurodai
20.
wagasagi -- surf smelt
21.
ayu
22.
unagi - ael
23.
koi -carp
24.
kajiki - spearfish and swordfish
Source: Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of
the Japan Times and Mail, 1939).
* No English equivalent. Kurodai is one of the sea breams.
Ayu is a small fish resembling trout very popular in Japan.
-28-
16·031 P49 bu

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Although lines of demarcation are not distinct and vary according to
seasons and 'currents the Japanese waters may be divided into four regions:
(1) the cold region; (2) the temperate region; (3) the warm region and
(4) the true oceanic region. In the cold region which includes the Okhotak
Sea, waters surrounding the Kurile Islands, Karafuto and Hokkaido, and
the northern portion of the Japan Sea bordering the Asiatic mainland are
great quantities of the salmonoid fish, the gadoid fish and nerring. The
Japanese king crab is also caught in this region. The waters of the tem-
perate region, which includes those bordering the southern coast of
Hokkaido and the three main islands of Honshu, Shikoku and Kyusim, abound
in sardines, mackerel, horse mackerel, yellowtail and sea breams. In the
summer bonito and tuna are found in coastal waters and in the southern part
of the region oysters are cultivated. South of Japan proper in the waters
of Loochoo Islands (Ryukyu Islands), the Bonin Islands and Formosa bonito.
tuna, swordfish, spearfish and frigate mackerel and horse mackerel pre-
dominate. From the oceanic region in the Pacific east of Japan come
bonito, tuna, spearfish and swordfish.
A Japanese source, considering only Japan proper, groups the more
important commercial fish according to the area of catch as follows: 14/
14 Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of the Japan Times
and Ma11, 1939).
-29-
16-031 P50 bu

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
Fish generally caught
Fish caught in North
Fish caught in South
throughout Japan
Japan
Japan
(sardine
iwashi (anchovy
nishin -herring
buri - yellowtail
(round herring
sake 一 salmon
tai - porgy or sea
karei
(flatfish
bream
hirame
tara - cod
aji - yellow mackerel
maguro -- tuna
asu - trout
bora -- mullet
samma -- mackerel - pike
wakasagi -- surf amelt
sawara - Spanish
(spearfish
mackerel
bajiki
(swordfish
katsuo - bonito
fuka - shark
* kurodai
* konoshiro
ayu
unagi - eel
koi - carp
tobi-uo - flying fish
* No English equivalent.
Fishing Seasons
Japanese fishing is carried on throughout the year although in
some areas certain seasons are relatively unimportant, many species have
peak seasons, and certain fisheries have closed seasons. Figure 2 shows
the seasonal pattern of the Japanese fisheries and in the following
sections the peak seasons are indicated for the more important species.
For several of the special "deep sea" fisheries the seasons may be summarised
as follows:
Northern Fisheries (Russian waters, Karafuto, Kuriles and northern
Hokkaido). April to October is the most important season in which the
commercial operations are concentrated.
-30-
16-031 P51 nobu

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.99)
PROVISIONAL EDITION
130
140
150
JAPANESE FISHING
AREAS AND SEASONS
SEA
DECEMBER THROUGH FEBRUARY 12-2
OF
MARCH THROUGH MAY 3-5
SAKHALIN
OKHOTSK
JUNE THROUGH AUGUST 6-8
U. S. S. R.
SEPTEMBER THROUGH NOVEMBER 9-11
MARCH THROUGH AUGUST 3-8
MARCH THROUGH NOVEMBER 3-11
CHISHIMA RETTO
JUNE THROUGH NOVEMBER 6-11
KARAFUTO
(KURILE
ISLANDS)
JUNE THROUGH FEBRUARY 6-2
DECEMBER THROUGH MAY I2-5
SEPTEMBER THROUGH MAY 9-5
DECEMBER THROUGH AUGUST I2-8
MANCHURIA
2221
SEPTEMBER THROUGH FEBRUARY 9-2
MARCH THROUGH MAY; SEPTEMBER
THROUGH NOVEMBER 3-5:9-11
DECEMBER THROUGH FEBRUARY;
JUNE THROUGH SEPTEMBER 12-2;6-8
ALL YEAR
HOKKAIDO
IMPORTANT FISHING PORTS
6-8
100
50
o
100
200
300
400
MILES
9-11
HAKODATE
9-11
SEA
OF
JAPAN
CHINA
3-
CHOSEN
HONSHU
YELLOW
CHOSH
SEA
12-5
SHIMONOSEKI
SHIKOKU
12-2
12-2
9-5
3-8
6-8
KYUSHU
ALL YEAR
30
PACIFICOCEAN
30
EASTCHINA
12-8
SEA
12-2
12-5
12-5
35
12-2
NANSEI SHOTO
OGASA WARA
12-5
RYUKYU
ISLANDS)
(BONIN ISLANDS)
TAIWAN
130
140
150
MAP NO. 627, JUNE 22, 1942
DRAWN IN THE GEOGRAPHY DIVISION, O.S.S.

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.98)
Deep-Sea Fishing Off the East Coast of Japan. In the summer
months the operations are largest. These follow the northward migra-
tions of Scombroids, sardines and other species. As Figure 2 shows,
however, there are many seasonal variations within this vast area.
Trawling in the China Sea. This is limited to Octoberl- June 1
north of 250 N. and to May 1 - November 1 south of 250 .
Antarctic whaling. In 1937-1938 this was limited to November 1 -
March 16 by Japan. The season for other nations was December 8 -
March 15. (See page 113)
Areas and Seasons of the Northern Region by Species
In the northern cold waters, roughly north of 4oo, herring, cod.
salmon and crab are the mainstays of the Japanese fisheries. The
southern part of this area -- northern Honshm, Hokkaido, the Kurile
Islands and Karafuto -- are Japanese territories whereas the northern
part of the area -- Sakhalin, Kamchatka and the Siberian Coast are
Soviet areas.
Herring (nishin) is the leading product of the cold waters and
noxt to sardines the largest Japanese fish catch. Herring are most
abundant from northern Sakhalin to Aomori Prefecture, particularly on
the western side of the former islend, but occur in lesser mumbers mmch
farther south along the coasts of Japan proper and Korea. The southern
limit on the Pacific coast is about 37° (Fukushima Prefecture) and in
the Sea of Japan on the east about the latitude of Sado Island and on
the west about 350 (Fusan City in Korea).
-31-
18-031 P53 Lu

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.99)
There are two spawning groups: the spring spawners and the fall
spamers. The spring herring, the catch of which is larger, appear in
the Se of Japan from about mid-March to mid-April in the waters of Akita
and Aomori Prefectures and those of southwestern Hokkaido, then proceed
northward as the waters warm. In May spring herring are caught off the
east coast of Hokkaido and in Karafuto and Sakhalin waters. After three
waves of spawning, spring herring come in less developed schools on
feeding migrations. Winter herring are taken mainly in Pacific waters.
As Table 12 shows the herring catch declined markedly from 1934 through
1938, the 1938 catch being about one-sirth of the 1934 catch. However,
this was a temporary decline reflecting the cycle of abundance typical
of herring; the larger catches of 1939 and 1940 indicate this.
Cod (tara), including the Alaskan pollack which is fished in the
same waters, in most years is caught in quantities about as large as
herring although the catch is less valuable than that of salmon. Cod
fisheries have their southern limit on the Pacific coast at 380 and in
the Japan Sea, where waters are colder farther south than along the Kuroshie-
warmed Pacific coast, at about 350. Cod are important in the northern
prefectures of Honshu, all around Hokkaido, in waters of the Kuriles and
Karafuto. The west coast of Karafuto has more extensive cod fisheries
than the east coast. In the Russian waters cod fishing and salmon fish-
ing grounds coincide in general, i.e. along both the east and west side
of Kamchatka, along the Siberian coast in the vicinity of the town of
-32
16-031 P54 bu

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Okhotak and also in the Gulf of Penzhinskaya. Japanese fishermen have
also caught cod in Bering Sea. The chief season is from March to October.
Salmon and salmon-trout, anadromous fish which are taken in large
numbers from April to December the time of their spawming migration,
are characteristic of the northern waters. Of the species of this group
the most important in the Japanese fisheries is the dog or chum salmon,
(sake), (Oncorhynchus keta) which is found in the waters stretching from
the northeastern part of Japan proper to Kamchatka. Of all the varieties
of salmon it is the one most abundant in waters of Japan proper (north of
35°), but occurs in larger numbers in waters of Hokkaido, Karafuto and
Sakhalin, the Kuriles and Siberia. These salmon ascend the rivers in
September to December, later than other salmon. The red salmon (beni
sake or beni masu), (Oncorhynchus nerka) is found in the waters north of
Honshu with the largest schools occurring off the coast of Kamchatka and
smaller amounts taken in the seas off the Kuriles. The king or chinook
salmon (masunosuke), (Oncorhynchus tschawytscha), the largest, is less
far-ranging than the dog and red salmon, occurring no farther south than
Hokkaido. It spawns earliest in spring, appearing in the latter part of
April in vast numbers off the river mouths, especially in Kamchatka and
the coasts of the Okhotsk Sea. The largest numbers are taken off the east
coast of Kamchatka. The run is earlier in the south than the north as it
begins with the first spring freshet. Pink salmon (masu), (Oncorhynchus
gorbuscha) is taken in great abundance being the species canned in largest
quantities. While it is ceught in practically every locality within the
-33-
16-031 P55 bu

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.98)
Lanchatka and Okhotak Sea areas, the largest amounts are taken off the
cast coast of Kamchatka. The silver salmon (gin sake), (Oncorhynchus
kisutch) is canght in relatively small quantities, chiefly in the seas
off Kamchatka. Salmon-trout (Salmo sp.) is a smaller fish taken chiefly
in waters of Hokkaido and Karafuto; it is rare in Kamchatka and is absent
in northern Honshm waters. Figure 3 shows the main treas of the composite
salmon catch.
Crab, especially the king crab (Taraba-gani), (Paralithodes Cam-
tschatica), provides an important erport product of the northern fisheries.
The fishing grounds (ahovn in Figure 4) occur in the cold waters from
Bering Sea to the northern end of the Japan Sea. Floating factories operat-
ing off the Kamchatka coast accounted for about half the l938 catch;
shore based operations in eastern Hokkaido, in Karafuto, the northern
Kuriles and Kamchatka accounted for the rest. The most lucrative of all
Japanese crab fishing areas is off the west coast of Kamchatka south of
58°.
The crab fishing season varies according to the area. In Hokkaido
it starts the early part of April and ends in late June, reaching the
peak between mid-April and early May. Along the east and west coasts
of Karafuto operations are possible generally from the earlier part of
March to the beginning of September; the fishing season in this region
reaches its height between the latter part of March and April. The
operating season for the floating canneries extends from the earlier
-34-
10-031 P56 bu

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.95)
PROVISIONAL EDITION
UNRESTRICTED
U.
S.
S.
R.
B
E
R
N
G
5
E
A
POLUOSTROV
KAMCHATKA
S
E
A
0
F
Petropavlovak
Figure 3
0
K
S
SAKHALIN
Esutorv
KARAFUTO
MANCHURIA
N
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE
SALMON FISHING GROUNDS
Otaru
HOKKAIDO
J
NO.25B4-M SEPTEMBER 27, 1945
0.4445
PREPARED IN THE MAPS AND GRAPHICS DIVISION, F.E.A.

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.94)
PROVISIONAL
EDITION
UNRESTRICTED
U.
S.
S.
R.
B
E
R
S
E
POLUOSTROV
KAMCHATKA
S
E
Figure 4
0
Petroportorsk
0
K
H
0
T
SAKHALIN
Esutorvo
KARAFUTO
MANCHURIA
N
PRINCIPAL JAPANESE
CRAB FISHING GROUNDS
Q
Oleru
A
HOKKAIDO
J
NO 2588-M SEPTEMBER 27, 1945
1-4444
PREPARED N THE MAPS AND GRAPHICS DIVISION, F.EA.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
part of April to the beginning of September, May and June being
regarded as the best part of the season.
Also important in the northern waters is the scallop (hotate-
gai) which next to the shalone, is the most important edible mollusk
in Japanese fisheries by weight of catch. The scallops are most
abundant on the east and northeast coast of Hokkaido, north from Nemuro.
and in Atei Bay, Karafuto. Aomori Prefecture supplies some.
Other marine products of lesser importance in the northern waters
are cuttlefish which are taken in Hokkaido and Aomori Prefecture; smelt;
the flatfish (especially flounder); whales; sea-otters and fur seals.
Arees and Seasons of Central and Southern Japan by Species
South of 400 N. sardines, the Scombioids, sea bream, yellowtail,
flatfish, horse mackerel, the Spanish mackerel and swordfish are taken
in large quantities.
Sardines (iwashi) occupy first place both in quantity of pro-
duction and the value of the catch among all the marine products of
Japan. Of the annual fish catch of Japan proper of slightly more than
3 million metric tons, sardines account for more than 50 percent in
quantity and about 20 percent in value. 15/ It is the leading species
caught in both the coastal fisheries and the so-called deep-sea
fisheries".
Japanese sardines which include the anchovy and the round herring
as well as the true sardine, are widely distributed in the waters
15 In addition the sardine catch of Korea is approximately 30 percent
of its fish production. Korea production of sardines in recent years
has averaged approximately 1 million metric tons.
-35-
16-031 P57 bu

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
extending from Karafuto and Hokkaido in the north to Formosa in the
south - in the Pacific, the Japan Sea and the China Ses. The coasts
of Nagasaki, Hyogyo, Shizuoka, Chiba, Fukmshima, Miyagi, Ibaraii, Iwate
and Aomori prefectures and Hokkaido are noted for large catches (Figure 5).
The fishing grounds are in general within thirty miles of shore. Much
of the catch is taken by the coastal fishermen, but part is taken by
large-scale operations and is classed with the deep sea fisheries.
Sardine fishing is carried on all year round with, however,
different seasonal peaks in various localities. Figure 6 summarizes the
seasons for the chief producing areas in the coastal waters of Japan
proper.
In the waters farther offshore large schools of sardines migrate
with considerable regularity: in the spring the migration is northward
with the warming waters; later, they reverse their migrations. The
swimming layer is deeper in the southern waters, varying from south to
north with the thickness of surface warm layers. The large schools are
recognized by the dark brown color effect on the water surface; where
they swim at great depths, their wake is indicated by tiny bubbles of
air. Their predators - mackerel, tuna and other Scembroids - are
also signs of their presence.
The Scombroids. These are predatory pelagic species having vast
oceanic distribution and gathering into relatively small schools to feed.
In general the Japan Sea is poor in Scombroids and they are virtually
unknown in the Inland Sea. In waters off the east coast, however, they
36
16-031 P58 bu

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.93)
PROVISIONAL EDITION
Figure 5.
UNRESTRICTED
M
A
N
C
H
U
R
A
Otoru
A
P
A
N
N
S
E
3
oKyóngsong
(Ke10)
CHOSEN
(KOREA)
H
0
N
S
H
Tōkyo
0
Köbe
P
ogago
Köchi
KYUSHU
A
J
JAPAN
PRINCIPAL SARDINE FISHING GROUNDS
NO 2583-M SEPTEMBER 28,1945
5-1445
PREPARED
IN
THE
MAPS
AND
GRAPHICS
DIVISION, FE A

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.99)
Figure 6
J
F
M
A
M
J
J
A
S
0
N
D
Chiba
Ibaraki
Fukushima
Miyagi
Iwate
Aomori and
Hokkaido
Nagasaki
Main Season
Minor Season
SARDINE
FISHING
SEASONS
IN
JAPAN
PREPARED IN THE MAPS AND GRAPHICS DIVISION, F.E.A.
NO. 2587-C
0.4446

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.98)
are taken in large quantities.
The true mackerel or sabe (Scomber japonicus) is the most impor
tant.in tonnage and value; in 1940 the catch amounted to more than 92
million pounds and was valued at $ l0.6 million. Mackerel are mumerous
in the coastal maters of Japan as far north as Hokkaido but are taken
only in small quantities north of this. They are taken only in mall
mumbers in the Japan Sea, north of 4oo on the Honshu coast. Ishikawa,
Toyama and Niigata prefectures are the chief areas of the west coast.
Mackerel are caught at almost all seasons, but during the summer
when they approach the coasts the coastal fishing season reaches'its
peak. In this season they prefer bays with depths up to 20 meters.
returning in winter to depths of 40 to 100 meters.
In quantity of production tuna and bonito rank after only sardines,
herring, cod and mackerel. They are caught in both the coastal waters
and the high seas, elightly more being taken in the latter; in 1936 about
93 million pounds of tuna were taken in the deep sea fisheries and
74 million pounds in the coastal waters.
The range of these species is immense; hardly any marine district
from Etorofu in the Kurile Islands to Formosa is without tuna fishing
and to the east of Honshu the operations extend ss far as 2,000 miles
out into the Pacific and to the south as far as the South Seas.
Four species of tuna are caught in considerable quantity: long
finned tuna (Thunmus alalunga), yellow tuna (Neothunmus macropterus),
black tuna (Thunmus orientalis) and mebachi (Parathunnus mebachi).
-37-
16-031 P50 bu

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.99)
The first of these, the long-finned tuna, is rarely found in the Japan
Sea, but is widely distributed in the Pacific. It migrates northward
in spring, reaching the northeastern shores of Japan in summer where
it is caught with bonito. Yellow tuna is widely distributed along the
Pacific coast from Hokkaido south to Formosa, but is rarely caught in the
Japan Sea. It migrates to the northeast coast of Japan in summer, approach-
ing fairly close to shore. Black tuna has wide distribution from the
Kuriles to the South Seas and unlike the other species is caught in fair
amounts in the Japan Sea. South of Xyushm it is found all year round
but along the coast of Honshu moves north in early summer and returns
south in late autumn. Mebachi has a distribution from about the northern
boundary of Chiba Prefecture to waters south of Formosa on the Pacific
side, and is not found in the Japan Sea.
The peak season for tuna in the coastal waters is the summer
although some species, for example the black tuna on the Pacific side,
are taken in winter.
Sugiura 16/ divides the deep sea tuna grounds into the following
six districts of which the first three accounted for more than 90 percent
of the catoh:
1. Hokaido and northeast Honshu
2. The Isu district, extending south from the Izu Peninmula
3.
The Nankaido district extending from Shizuoka Prefecture
southwestward toward Shikoku
4. From south Satouma southward
16/ Sugiura, Y. Suisan, 1939.
-38-
18-031 P60 bu

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
5. Northwest Kyushu district covering the seas northwest of
Kyushu
6. The South Seas district covering seas south of Formosa.
The peak season in Hokkaido and northeastern Honshu lasts five
months from July until November. In southern Izu, the Nankaido and south-
ern Satsuma autumn, winter and spring are the seasons and in the South
Seas the tuna fishing is done largely in winter and spring.
Bonito, smaller than tuna, frequent waters of the Kuroshio follow-
ing this warm current toward the northeast in the spring reaching as far
north as Aomori Prefecture and late in autumn return southwestward.
Bonito fishing is conducted along the entire Pacific coast, but the
most important centers are Shizuoka, Kochi and Kagoshima prefectures.
Although in the southern prefectures bonito is taken all through the
year, the main fishing season is from April to October.
Buri or yellowtail 17/ (Seriola sp. chiefly Seriola quinqueradiata),
a member of the Carangidae is taken in large quantities; in l938 about
73 million pounds were caught in Japanese coastal waters. They move
northward along the Pacific coast in the warm waters as far as northern
Honshu. They are most abundant in the coastal waters of southeast Japan
from Choshi to the coast of Shikoku, Sagami Bay being particularly pro-
ductive. They are most abundant along the coast of Shikoku in January
but remain until May; they migrate to the waters of Tosa province during
the months of December and Jamuary. In general winter and spring con-
stitute the fishing season.
17 Relative of the Atlantic amberjack. It should not be confused with
the many other fish called "yellowtail" in various parts of the world.
-39-
16 041 P61 bu

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
Horse mackerel accounted for 66 million pounds of the coastal
catch in 1938. This fish is taken in the water throughout central and
southern Japan.
Tai (porgy, sea bream or red snapper) is really several species
of which thru-madai (Pagrus major), chidai (Pagrus cardinalis) and kidai
(Pagrus tumifrons) are the most important. These species together
accounted for about 46 million pounds of fish landed in Japan proper
in 1938 -- 27 million pounds of which were caught in coastal waters and
19 million pounds in the deep sea. Considered as a group these fish are
caught from Hokkaido to Formosa along. both the Pacific and Japan Sea
coasts and are caught throughout the year. Madai, taken in largest mum-
bers, swarms in the Inland Sea and the southern Japan Sea but is seldom
found along the Pacific coast; kidai, on the other hand, is a deep-sea
variety rare in the shallow waters of the Inland Sea.
Flatfish, largely flounders, are taken in quantities of 50 million
pounds. Winter and spring are the main seasons.
Swordfish, 1.e. kajiki 18/ which is an inclusive tenn used for
several species, are caught in Pacific waters 50 to 300 miles off the
eastern shores of Honshu and Hokkaido. In all about 3 - 5 million pounds
of these are landed anmually. The best catches are made in October,
November and December with somewhat smaller catches made during August,
September, January, February and March. The spawming season (April to
July) is an off season. The catch is landed in largest quantities in
18
Spearfish are sometimes included in this term.
-10-
16 831 P62 bu

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.98)
Kanagawa and Miyagi prefectures with lesser amounts in Iwate, Aomori
and Hokkaido.
Spanish mackerel, cuttlefish, octopus, sharks, semma 19/ and
numerous species of shellfish and crustaceans are caught in the waters
of central and southern Japan. Carp and eel are both caught and reared,
ayn is reared and trout is caught in stocked inland lakes and streams.
Some of these are mentioned later in connection with other aspects of
the fishing industry as are shellfish, crustaceans and molluscs and
seaweed, all important fishery products.
19 Samma (Cololabis samma) is found in the same general grounds as
tuna and bonito. In the high sea fisheries it is taken chiefly north
of Chibe Prefecture and closer to shore than bonito and tuna.
41-
16-031 P63 bu

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.98)
II FISHING OPERATIONS: FISHERMEN, BOATS, PORTS, METHODS AND PRODUCTION
On the basis of actuel operations Japanese fishing may be
divided into the following groups, each of which has certain special
characteristics: (1) Coastal Fisheries; (2) Aquiculture; (3) Deep-Sea
Fisheries in Home Waters; (4) Trawling: (5) Northern Fisheries and
(6) Special Fisheries. Each of these will be considered in turn,
pointing out the methods and equipment of the operations, the species
caught, etc. But because this classification lists some fisheries
which are not mutually exclusive and because some types of data are
not available by this grouping, e general discussion dealing with
fishermen, boats, ports and the catch as landed by prefectures precedes
the discussion by fisheries.
Fishermen
Number. Approximately l million Japanese are directly engaged
in the fishing industries, i.e. fishing, aquiculture and the processing
of marine products. It has been estimated that 20 percent of the people
are directly or indirectly dependent on the fishing industry.
In fishing itself 1,027,170 people were employed in 1940 -
624,739 ful1 time and 402, 431 part-time; in aquicul ture 127,813 were
employed of whom 23,396 were full time workers and 104,417 part-time
(Table 4). 20/ Of those employed in fishing and aquiculture together
about 45 percent were part-time fishermen, most of these depending
upon farming for part of their livelihood.
20 A later figure, an estimate for 194l, fixes the number of "marine
laborers" as 700, 000. The higher figure above appears to arise out of
differences in classification. The 700,000 approximates the total
mumber engaged full-time in fishing and aquiculture.
42-
16-031 P64 bu

=== Page 209 === (confidence 1.00)
TABLE
4
Number of Persons Engaged in Fishing and Aquiculture in Japan Proper
Fishing
Aquicul ture
Employere
Employees
Employers
Employees
Male
Female
Total
Male
Female
Total
Principal Occupation
1936
232,828
360,123
69,640
429,763
7,875
12,256
6,027
18,283
1937
228,504
353,920
66,833
420,753
7,919
11,885
6,098
17,983
1938
220,296
333,539
68,432
401,971
7,673
10,547
5,828
16,375
1939
220,061
328,945
65,443
394,388
7,971
10,626
5,903
16,529
1940
221,108
335,340
68,291
403,631
7,933
9,696
5,767
15,463
Subsidiary Occupation
1936
244,689
137,935
57,287
195,222
86,421
21,620
20,428
42,048
1937
236,210
134,872
57,803
192,675
85,290
21,440
19.794
41,234
1938
231,026
126,541
56,044
182,585
78,212
21,113
20.762
41,875
1939
226,318
118,514
55,191
173,705
74,177
20,518
20,342
40,860
1940
224,647
120,644
57,140
177,784
66,993
17,962
19,462
37,424
Source:
Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943
(Oriental Economy Yearbook)
16-031
P65
bu

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.99)
In 1940 about 86 percent of those engaged in fishing and aqui-
culture were men and 14 percent women. During the war period the pro-
portion of women has increased due to military conscription and the
attraction of more lucrative occupations in war industries.
Distribution, Table 5 gives the data available concerning the
regional distribution of fishermen. Hokkaido, the leading fishing pre-
fecture, has the largest number - more than 200, 000 persons are supported
directly by fishing and aquiculture in this prefecture. Nagasaki, Chiba,
Shizuoka, Mie, Iwate and Yamaguchi prefectures each had more than 50,000
persons engaged in fishing in 1937. (Table 5).
Wages and Organization. Information concerning the method of
payment and the wage rates of fishermen is fragmentary. Many are paid
by a profit share system and many by a regular wage plus a share of the
profits; some may receive only a direct wage payment.
In some of the small units of the coastal fisheries a simple
profit share system is used whereby the owner of the boat receives a
larger share than the fishermen, but is responsible for the cost of
boat and net repair. This same system is also used in larger operations
for a recent report of a large boat manned by 70-80 men indicates profit
sharing. 21/ In this particular case, the profit after all deductions
for ice, oil, bait, etc. were made, was divided at a ratio of 4 shares
to the boat owner and 6 shares to the crew (the "shiburoku" or 4 to 6
system), the boat owner being liable for all expenses for the repair of
21 Report of a prisoner of war, formerly a fisherman in Shikoku.
44
16-031 P60 bu

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
5
Number of Fishermen and Fishing Craft by Districts, 1937
Number of Fishermen
Number of Fishing Boats
Hokkaido
202,356
58,750
Aomori
46,006
9,864
Iwate
52,572
11,021
Miyagi
38,291
8,846
Akita
17,811
2,749
Yamagata
10,856
1,748
Fukushima
11,971
1,942
Ibaraki
32,074
6,502
Tochigi
5,263
356
Gumma
2,157
186
Sai tama
3,465
185
Chiba
75,932
18,104
Tokyo
35,616
8,792
Kenagawa
28,016
7,160
Niigata
33,649
7,969
Toyama
24,412
2,662
Ishikawa
25,150
7,499
Fukui
12,496
3,695
Yamanashi
3,180
77
Nagano
19,884
682
Gifu
23,834
482
Shi zuoka
53,951
8,497
Aichi
41,515
7,601
Mie
52,768
12,613
Shiga
18,112
1,268
Kyoto
13,318
3,369
Osaka
8,412
2,826
Hyogo
30,668
11,162
Nara
4,767
64
Wakayama
23,763
7,620
Tottori
14,125
2,821
Shimane
38,372
8,611
Okayama
20,191
7.043
Hiroshima
38,331
11,247
Yamaguchi
51,127
16,160
-45
16-031 P67 bu

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.98)
rABLE 5 (Continued)
Number of Fishermen and Fishing Craft by Districts, 1937
Number of Fishermen
Number of Fishing Boats
Tokushima
17,796
6,049
Kagawa
24,803
8,339
Ehime
45,337
16,874
Kochi
40,110
8,978
Fukuoka
28,166
6,625
Saga
17,850
3,957
Nagasaki
80,476
20,853
Kumamoto
44,510
10,255
Oita
40,499
9,100
Miyazaki
18,276
3,588
Kagoshima
47,630
9.216
Okinawa
14,568
2,247
TOTAL
1,534,432
366,254
Source:
Nippon Suisan Nempo, 1938.
-46-
18-031 P68 bu

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.98)
boat and equipment. In the trawl fiaheries the men are guaranteed a
minimun mage and in addition receive a certain percentage allowed on
the catch. 22/ Likewise on the floating canneries the men are allowed
a percentege in addition to regular wages.
In the smallest coastal units the owner of the boat may be a
single fisherman or several working in cooperation; in the larger
coastal units, on the other hand, the owner is likely to be a joint
stock company with the capital raised among wholesale fish dealers.
ship-chandlers, bankers and others as well as fishermen. Thus the
stock company, receiving a substantial share of the profit, may be
largely or even entirely in the hands of non-fishermen. 23/ In the
deep-sea operations the boat owner is in many cases a company.
Japanese fishermen are organized into various types of organiza-
tions - societies and cooperatives; details concerning these are
given on pages 172 - 177.
Legislation regulating conditions of work in fishing was almost
non-existent in l933 and no recent information is available concerning
this aspect. 24/
In 1930 the percentage was 10 percent of the profit.
23/
The Economic Development of the Fishing Industry. Published
by the Tokyo Association for Liberty of Trading. Bulletin No. 7, 1935.
24/ Industrial Labour in Japan, I. L. O. Studies and Reports,
Series A, Geneva, 1933.
-47-
18+031 P69 bu

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
Fishing Boats
Number and Type,
Official Japanese statistics place the total
number of fishing boats at about 355, 000 in recent years of which almost
80 percent were non-powered (Table 6). 25/ Of the 279,000 boats with-
out engines in 1940 ahout 98 percent were less than 5 tons; thus of the
total number, 77 percent were sailing or other non-powered boats under
5 tons. Most of these amall boats are typical Japanese "isaribune"
built of wood, flat-bottomed and propelled by means of sculls and sails.
Although the preponderance of non-powered boats is clear, in the past
fifteen years amall boats without engines have been on the decline and
those with engines have shown a noticeable increase. Even in the 5-year
period 1936 through 1940 the mumber of non-powered boats decreased by
more than 25, 000 and the number of powered boats increased by more than
12,000 (Table 6). The rate of building and scrapping of fishing boats
ie indicated in Table 7.
In 1935 there were 2, 752 boats of more than 20 tons of which 2,622
were motor-powered, 86 steam powered and 43 sailing vessels. According
to statistics of the Fishing Vessel Owners Association, fishing craft
of more than 100 tons numbered 293 in 1936 and 372 in 1939. These include
trawlers, cold storage transport ships, bonito and tuna boats, floating
factory ships, whalers, and government training and experimental patrol
25 Some sources place the total number of fishing vessels as 450,000.
This higher figure must include unregistered small plank canoes, rafts
and dugouts still common in the more backward coastal villages. (This
figure is given in Table 9).
-48-
16 031 P70 bu

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
Number of Fishing Craft by Type, 1936 - 1940
1940
1936
1937
1938
1939
Total Number
366,267
364,260
356,482
354,729
354,042
Without Engines
304,098
297,961
288,327
283,090
279,018
Less than 5 tons
296,798
290,734
281,849
276,663
273,033
5 - 10 tons
6,779
6,637
5,982
5,949
5,550
10 - 20 tons
499
568
478
464
417
20 tons or more
22
22
18
14
19
With Engines
62,169
66,299
68,155
71,639
75,024
-49.
Steam Engines
106
97
194
123
Less than 50 tons
24
3
98
39
80
50 - 100 tons
10
1
5
84
93
100 tone or more
72
93
91
Oil Engines
62,063
66,202
67,961
71,516
Less than 5 tons
44,774
48,105
50,111
5 - 10 tons
6,999
7,198
7,568
(68,411
(71,885
10 - 20 tons
7,454
7,804
7,346
(
(
20 - 50 tons
2,117
2,295
2,105
3,105
3,139
50 tone or more
719
802
831
Source: Official figures of Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. 1935 and 1936
figures from The Statistical Abstract of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.
1937 and 1938 figures from The Japan Yearbook, 1940-1 and 1939 and 1940 figures
from Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
160031
Figures for 1940 as in source. They do not add to the total given.
P7
bu

=== Page 216 === (confidence 1.00)
16-
031
P7
2
bu
TABLE 7
Number of Fishing Craft
Without Engines
With Engines
Newly Built
Scrapped
Total
Newly Built
S-rapped
Total
-50-
1934
17,880
21,683
311,553
6,275
3,799
53,029
1935
17,247
18,699
308,541
6,413
3,571
57,478
1936
14,358
17,645
304,098
6,691
3,631
62,169
1937
11,385
14,959
297,961
5,530
3,326
66,299
1938
8,691
13,509
288,327
4,624
3,180
68,155
1939
8,524
12,144
283,090
4,200
3,023
71,639
Sources:
Norinsho Tokeihyo, 1939; Japan-Manchikuo Yearbook, 1940.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.99)
vessels (Table 8). These larger vessels may be described briefly by
type: 26/
Trawlers. In 1937 there were 94 licensed trawlers,
including those engaged in operations in foreign waters. Most of these
were vessels of 200 - 600 tons, Diesel powered, with motor driven winches,
freezing and cold storage facilities. The size of these by operating
areas is indicated by the following data. 27/
Operation Area
Number
Total
Average Tonnage
of Craft
Tonnage
per Craft
Eastern coast of China
and Yellow Sea
68
18,726
275
Southern China Seas
18
9,495
527
Bering Sea
3
1,217
405
Australian waters
3
1,419
473
Mexican waters
2
1,062
531
Small type trawlere. Only the larger boats of this type
are l00 tons, some being as small as 20 tons. Most of these vessels
have hand-manipulated drag nets and are provided with refrigeration
facilities.
Cold storage transport ships. The number of this class
of vessels 1s not known although one estimate places it as 27 (Table 8).
The Wichiro Gyogyo K. K. had 10 refrigerator vessels operating in north-
ern waters freezing freshly-caught salmon and salmon-trout.
26 Further details and pictures of fishing vessels are given in
Office of Strategic Services typed report "The Fishing Industry of
Japan," 1942.
27) Japan Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special Issue of Japan Times and
Ma1l, 1939).
-51-
16-031 P73 bu

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 8
:
Number and Tonnage of Large Japanese
Fishing Vessels, 1939
Type of Vessel
Number
Aggregate
Tonnage
Government ships
38
9,785
Trawlers
82
25,238
Tuna and mackerel boats
122
16,358
Whaling floating factory ships
6
100,370
Whale catcher boats
70
18,116
Crab and salmon floating canneries
18
59,209
Fish transport ships
27
39,226
Fishing boats owned abroad by
Japanese private concerns
9
3,886
Total
372
272.188
Source: Oivil Affairs Guide - Japan -- Resources (6).
Bonito and tun vessels. These are Diesel-engined vessels
some of which are smaller than 100 tons but others being from 100 - 200
tons. They are equipped with livebait compartments and cold storage
facilities. They are seaworthy vessels, many of all-steel construction,
with cruising radii up to 2,0∞ miles.
Floating factory ships. In 1939 there were reported to
be 19 floating factory ships aggregating 64,000 tons which were employed
in the salmon and crab fisheries. Although these average about 3.400
tons some are as large as 8,Oo0 tons. They each have a number of smaller
auxiliary ships; some have but three or four such auxiliaries, but the
larger factories have 10 or 12.
-52
18-031 r74 Du

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.99)
Whaling ships. In 1939 there were sir large Japanese
whaling factory vessels operating in the Antarctic with 49 catcher
boats. The whalers averaged about 16, 700 tons and the catcher boats
about 350 tons.
The whaling ships operating in coastal and colonial waters are
smaller but modern vessels - typically l00 - l20 tons of the Norwegian
type.
Government vessels. The government of Japan and the
governments of the various prefectures have training vessels, oceano-
graphic research vessels and patrol craft. These are modern vessels,
most of them from 300 to 500 tons in size.
Distribution. Table 9 shows the general distribution of all
Japanese vessels. Of the deep-sea vessels more than 8800 were operating
off Japan proper. These vessels totaled about 2l2,000 tons or an
average of little more than 20 tons.
TABLE 9
Distribution of Japanese Vessels, 1938
Coastal fishery, home waters
ca. 440,000
Deep-sea fishery
10,000
Home waters
8,836
Korean waters
ca. 1,000
Formosan waters
26
Kwangtung Leased Territory
146
South Seas area (Nanyo)
191
West-central Pacific whalers
30
Antarctic whalers (mother ships only)
6
Soviet waters
132
Floating canneries
15
Source: Japan Yearbook, 1940.
-53-
16-031 P75 bu

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.99)
Data concerning the distribution of fishing boats by prefectures
is presented in Table 5; unfortunately this regional breakdown by type
and size of boats is not available. Hokkaido leads in total mumber
with more than 58,000 boats in 1937 and Nagasakd, Chiba, Ehime and
Yamaguchi prefectures each had more than 15, 000 fishing boats in that
year.
Fishing Porte
The coasts of Japan are thickly strewn with small fishing villages.
many of them combination agricultural-fishing villages. These are the
true fishing ports of Japan at which about 50 percent of the total
catch is landed. In the parts of the country which have been long
settled (Honshu, Kyush and Shikoku) the distribution of these "ports"
is closely related to the location of economically valuable coastal
fisheries. In these three main islands no coastal area adjacent to
good fishing grounds lacks fishing villages; even the most inhospitable
stretch of coast has settlements proclaiming their trade by the fishing
smacks ("isaribune") drawn up over the sloping rocky shore. These
conditions, however, do not prevail in the northern areas (Hokkaido and
Karafuto) which were settled intensively only after the middle of the
last century.
Although the fishing products of the coastal waters enter Japan
through a thousand or more villages, the deep-sea fleets are based on
a few leading harbors. These bases are concentrated in three areas:
-54
16-031 P76bu

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.98)
(1) in Hokkaido, the base-area for the northern fisheries of the Okhotak
Sea and the Kurile-Kamchatka area; (2) in east-central Honshu the base
arsa for the northern part of the great Scombroid range of the warmer
Pacific waters; and (3) Kyushu. the base area for the Yellow Sea and
the East China Sen trawl fisheries.
The importent fishing ports of Japan are shown in Figure 7 and
listed in Table lC by prefecture. It should be noted, however, that
many of the productive coastal areas are unrepresented here because
their "ports" are merely small villages on bays and protected beaches.
Of the ports shown on the map the following four can be regarded as
the chief ports: Hakodate, Choshi, Shimonoseki and Nagasaki. Only
Choshi, which supplies the metropolitan area of Tokyo, can be deecribed
as a "fishing harbor" in the fullest sense of the word. Tokyo, Nagoya,
Osaka and Kobe, the large commerciel ports of Japan, are important to
the fisheries as destinations for aquatic products and as transshipment
points rather than as fishing ports.
Even in the more important fishery villages, wharves, docks and
piers are the exception. Where they do exist, however, they are nearly
all of well-constructed masonry. Only in the northern ports of Hokkaido
and Karafuto are there the soon-dilapidated piers of piling, weather-
beaten timber docks, and wooden sheds reminiscent of New England or
Britisn Columbia fishing villages.
-55
16-03! P77 nobu

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.96)
130
140
2
SEA OF
JAPAN
OKHOTSK
PRINCIPAL
 RY
SAKHALIN
U. S. S. R.
FISHING PORTS
KARAFUTO
Maokd
Odemeri
Honto
SOYA STRAIT
CHISHIMA
ETOROFU L.
MANCHURIA
KUNASHIRI 1.
(MANCHUKUO)
Otaru
HOKKAIDO
Nomure
SHAKOTAN-Y
PENINSULA
-Hakodate
TSUGARU
STRAIT
Aomori
Hochinos
SEA OF
Same
POHAI
JAPAN
2
3
Miyoko
BAY
Kamaishi
Kasenuma
HONSHU
Shidzugawa
Shiogema
Naoetau
NOTO
CHINA
PENINSULA
OCEAN
CHOSEN
Nonoo
Onohama
150
INLAND
Tauraga-
10
YELLOW
Hiroshimo
SEA
13
Tokyo
Choshi
INDEX TO
SEA
Moji
Tobata
8
Shimonosek
26
24
25
23
21
Osaka
Nagoya
Misaki
SAGAMI BAY
PACIFIC
MARINE PREFECTURES
OF JAPAN
Hakata
28
832
Maroto
Takamatsu
Katsuura
HONSHU
AOMORI
21.HYOGO
Kochl
AKITA
22.TOTTORI
Naagsoki
SHIKOKU
IWATE
23.OKAYAMA
Miyozoki
YAMAGATA
24.SHIMANE
30
Kagoshima
KYUSHU
Aburatsu
INLAND
SEA
6. NIIGATA
7. FUKUSHIMA
5.
MIYAGI
26.YAMAGUCHI
25.HIROSHIMA
SHIKOKU
B ISHIKAWA
27.KAGAWA
9. TOYAMA
26.EHIME
IO. IBARAKI
29.KOCHI
11. FUKUI
30.TOKUSHIMA
12. TOKYO
KYUSHU
13.CHIBA
31.FUKUOKA
14.KANAGAWA39.NAGASAKI
15.AIGHI
33.SAGA
EAST CHINA SEA
OGASAWARA
16.SHIZUOKA 34.KUMAMOTO
17.KYOTO
35.0ITA
Naha
OKINAWA 1.
(BONIN)
IS.
20.WAKAYAMA
18.MIE
19.OSAKA
37.KAGOSHIMA
36.MIYAZAKI
NANSEI
(RYUKYU
KAZAN IS
SCALE OF MILES
TAIWAN
130
140
MAP NO. 625, JUNE 20, 1942
- DRAWN IN THE GEOGRAPHY DIVISION, OS.S

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 10
Karafuto
Honshu (continued)
Maoka
Kanagawa Prefecture
Honto
Mi said
Otomari
Aichi Prefecture
Nagoya
Hokkaido b/
Shizuoka Prefecture
Nemuro
Shimisu
Otaru 
Osaka Prefecture
Muroran
Osaka
Hakodate c/
Wakayama Prefecture
Katsuura
Honshm
Hiroshima Prefecture
Aomori Prefecture
Hi roshima
Aomori
Yamaguchi Prefecture
Hachinoe
Shimonoseki d
Same
Iwate Prefecture
Shikoku
Miyako
Kagawa Prefecture
Kamaishi
Takamatsu
Miyagi Prefecture
Kochi Prefecture
Kasemuma
Kochi
Shizugawa
Muroto
Shiogama
Niigata Prefecture
Kyushu
Naoetsu
Fukuoka Prefecture
Fukushima Prefecture
Moji
Onahama
To be ta
Bakata d/
Ishikawa Prefecture
Nanao
Negasaki Prefecture
Fukui Prefecture
Nagasaki d
Tsuruga
Miyazaki Prefecture
Tokyo Prefecture
Miyazaki
Tokyo
Aburatsu
Chiba Prefecture
Kagoshima Prefecture
Choshi
Kagoshima
Loochoo Islands
(Ryukyu Islands)
Okinawa
Naha
a
These ports listed here from north to south are shown in Figure 7.
b
Lesser ports of Hokkaido are Kushiro, Abashiri, Rumoe, Iwanai,
Kiritappu, Suttsu, Esahi and Urakawa.
Chief ports for operation of northern fisheries.
Chief ports for trawling operations.
-56
16-031 P70 bu

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.98)
Production by Region
Table 1l gives the l939 regional production of the fisheries
of Japan proper, i.e. the amount landed in each prefecture from coastal
fisheries and "deep-sea fishing in home waters". The production of
the northern fisheries, trawling, fishing in colonial waters and
aquiculture are not included. This table, providing regional production
data, is the basis for later consideration of surplus and deficit areas.
Although fishing is widespread throughout Japan, three districts
stand out as major producing areas: Hokkaido; the eastern coast of
Honshu northward from Shizuoka Prefecture; and the west side of Kyushu
and extreme southwestern Honshu (including Nagasaki and Yamaguchi
prefectures).
Coastal Fishing.
General. Coastal fishing, largely in waters within 20 -
30 miles of shore, accounted for more than 2 million tons or two-thirds
of the total production of fish, shellfish, crustaceans and molluscs
of Japan proper in recent prewar years. It also provided most of the
seaweed produced - about 410, 000 metric tons (Table 12).
Sardines constituted approximately half of the coastal fish
catch with mackerel, herring, trout, cod, dog salmon, tuna, horse
mackerel, flatfish, yellowtail, bonito, shark, red sea bream and grey
mallet each providing sizable portions of the total (Tables 12 and 13).
-57-
18- 031 P80 bu

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
11
Production of Fish, Shellfish and Crustaceans by Regions.
1939三
(metric tons)
Regions and
Coastal
Deep-Sea
To tal
Prefectures
Fisheries
Fisheries
Hokkaido
838,635
156,246
994,881
Tohoku
Aomori
92,738
15,717
108,455
Akita
8,155
2,171
10.326
Iwate
78,217
20,596
98,803
Yamagata
2,963
3,848
6,811
Miyagi
23,488
50,280
73,768
Fukushima
24,309
72,566
96,875
Total Tohoku
229,870
165,168
395,038
Kanto
Niigata
23,257
2,724
25,981
Tochigi
458
458
Ibaraki
63,606
5,478
69,084
Chi ba
36,160
145,001
181,161
Gumma
215
215
Saitame
330
330
Tokyo
17,014
348
17,362
Kanagawa
20,664
3,567
24,231
Yamanashi
147
147
Nagano
1,069
1,069
Total Kanto
162,920
157,118
320,038
Tokaido
Shizuoka
56,411
38,797
95,208
Aichi
22,253
893
23,146
Mie
31,013
17,720
48.733
Gifu
1,044
1,044
Toyama
38,669
119
38,788
I shikawe
55,216
2,122
57,338
Total Tokaido
204,606
59,651
264,257
-58-
16 031 Pa1 bu

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
11 (Continued)
Production of Fish, Shellfish and Crustaceans by Regions,
1939 a
(metric tons)
Regions and
Coastal
Deep-Sea
Total
Prefectures
Fisheries
Fisheries
Kinki
Shiga
4,494
4,494
Fukui
22,465
592
23,057
Kyoto
25,836
422
26,258
Nara
186
186
Wakayama
18,686
4,060
22,746
Osaka
9.414
9.414
Eyogo
34,243
5,660
39,903
Total Kin.
115,324
10,734
126,058
Chugoku
Tottori
8.841
845
9,686
Okayama
10,318
18
10,336
Shimane
25,013
12,477
37,490
Hiroshima
16,736
16,736
Yamaguchi
50,051
51.827
101.878
Total
Chugoku
110,959
65,167
176,126
Shikoku
Kagawa
8,616
1.671
10,287
Tokushima
15,899
3,354
19,253
Ehime
57.414
2,347
59,761
Kochi
28,113
11,890
40.003
Total Shikoku
110,042
19,262
129,304
Kyushu
Nagasaki
169,281
45,985
215,266
Saga
16,425
8,467
24,892
Fukuoka
29,265
59,153
88,418
Oita
20,161
337
20,498
Kumamoto
14,667
1,108
15,775
Miyazaki
18,569
9,133
27,702
Kagoshima
42,603
22,657
65,260
Total Kyushu
310,971
146,840
457,811
Okinawa
2.785
4,330
7,115
TOTAL JAPAN PROPER
2,086,112
784,516
2,870,628
Source:
Norinsho Tokeihyo, 1939.
Includes only production of coastal fisheries and deep-sea fisheries
In "home waters". For aquiculture only value figures are available
(Table 15). Seaweed is not included in the coastal production.
-59
16 031 P82 bu

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
12
Japaness Coastal Fishing Catch, 1934 - 1940
Quantity (1,000 kan)
Year ending
GRAND
Wet Fish
Shellfish
Crustaceans and Molluscs
Seaweed
March 31:
TOTAL
Total
Sandine
Herring
Mackerel
Tuna
Salmon
Red Sea
Bream
Other
Total
Cuttlefich
Other
1934
867,927
593,913
340,831
202,181
18,132
5,896
7,029
3,228
116,616
48,009
50,794
26,246
24,548
175,211
1935
737,449
514,456
292,023
61,169
19,479
9,136
7,919
3,137
121,593
54,542
36,310
10,967
25,343
132,141
1936
782,032
571,592
347,283
38,122
22,611
9,009
17,703
3,231
133,633
40,621
42,133
18,960
23.173
128,685
1937
726,729
494,485
268,164
30,953
26,193
6,712
17,225
3,097
142,146
37,644
40.875
14,282
26,593
153,725
1938
696,862
449,431
250,284
11,578
27,437
4,646
19,411
2,969
133,106
31,169
56,437
28,230
28.207
109,824
69
1939
659,957
465,246
231,589
32,682
34,456
9,220
13,390
2,918
140,991
30,177
60,874
33,826
27,048
103,660
1940
667,549
403,013
173,091
49,364
21,306
11,511
12,572
3,048
132,121
46,866
60,585
35,619
24,966
157,085
Value (1,000 yen)
1934
173,137
128,143
26.314
7,157
5,830
4,992
4,690
9,685
69,475
10,094
25,617
10,277
15,340
9,283
1935
181,802
134,673
28,258
5,077
6,597
6.163
4,995
9,786
120,926
11,697
25,360
7,734
17,526
10,173
1936
812,648
169,764
40,958
4,381
8,407
7,165
9,155
10,200
79,498
11,202
29,373
12,030
17,343
12,308
1937
219,649
162,844
37,894
5,507
8,938
6,358
11,816
10,583
81,748
10,451
31.426
11,543
19,883
14,827
1938
248,895
179,908
42,363
2,674
10,892
6,175
13,034
11,609
93,161
10,721
43,934
19,827
24,107
14,833
1939
378,431
262,026
62,978
7,955
16,388
14,668
13,431
15,248
131,358
16,149
73,953
39,938
33,025
27,304
1940
488,300
333,209
74,767
15,597
20,440
24,154
16,526
20,039
161,677
29,606
86,601
45,136
41,475
38,884
Largely dog or chum salmon.
Source:
Toyo Keimai Nenkan, 1943.
180-91
PB3

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.99)
TAHLE
13
Quantity
Value
(1000 kan)
(1000 yen)
Fish
Sardines
231,589
62,978
Mackerel
34,456
16,388
Herring
32,682
7,955
Trout
27,753
12,876
Cod
25,180
9,417
Dog salmon
13,390
13,431
Tuna
9,220
14,668
Horse mackerel
8,362
9,368
Flatfish
6,248
8,731
Yellowtail
5,982
11,667
Boni to
3,802
4,072
Shark
3,689
1,663
Red sea bream
2,918
15,248
Grey mullet
2,594
4,355
Others
57.381
69.209
Total
465,246
262,026
Shellfish
30,177
16,148
Crustaceans and Molluscs
Cuttlefish
33,826
39,928
Crab
7,261
3,164
Octopus
6,314
7,953
Prawn and shrimp
4,570
12,096
Other
8,902
9,812
Total
60,873
72,953
Seaweeds
103,660
27,304
Grand Total
659,956
378,431
Source: Norinsho Tokeihyo, 1939.
This table is included in addition to Table 12 as it gives
production for several additional species.
-61-
16-031 P85 bu

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.97)
Coastal fishing was characterized by small-scale operations
with limited capital. Many of the fishermen were farmers who took to
the sea only in slack seasons or fishing was the principal occupation
of the father of the farm family while the wife and children tilled
the soil. The entire coast of Japan was thickly strewn with little
combination agricultural-fishing villages; two-fifths of these
villages total earnings from fishing were more than half the earnings
from farming.28/ Much of the coastal fishing consisted of very small
units of operation, frequently involving a single family or several
families.
Although coastal fishing was important along all sections of
3
the coast of Japan proper its greatest relative importance was in
Eokkaido. This large northern prefecture accounted for about 40 percent
of the total volume of the coastal catch, due in part to its position
in relation to converging currents and to its disproportionately long
coastline as compared with other prefectures. Other regions of high
production were the Pacific coastal watere of northern Honshu and along
the western coast of Kyushu.
The fishing grounds in coastal waters were operated under a
license system. For the purpose of licensing the fishing village was
considered as a legal entity, each village being given exclusive rights
to the waters along its shores. Most villages had their own fishing
28 Fritz Bartz, "Japans Seefischereien," in Petermanns Geographische
Mitteilungen, 86 (May 1940).
-62
16-031 P80 bu

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.99)
organizations which enter into all phases of the economic life of
the fishermen (see pagee 172-177).
The coastal waters have been worked intensively for a long
period of time. Gradual depletion has been reported, and locally
special restrictions have been imposed in order to prevent further
dimimution of these resources. The coastal waters of Hokkaido and
northern Honshu are considered less depleted than those of other
parts of Japan proper.
Methods and Gear of Coastal Fisheries. Japan's coastal
fishing industry in imediate prewar years was a curious combination
of old, time-honored indigenoue methods and some of the most modern
methods and equipment used anywhere in the world. Although the deep-
sea techniques and much of the gear employed in the northern fisheries
generally paralleled those of Western countries, included in the large
assortment of gear used in the coastal fisheries were nets and traps
of types unfamiliar in the United States and Europe. The complexity
of techniques in the coastal fisheries was greatest in southern Japan.
Here long settlement had permitted the development of a multiplicity
of devices for specialized purposes and there was also a greater number
of species than in the northern waters and fewer of the migratory
types which could be secured in great masses by relatively simple
procedures.
It is not possible in all cases to clearly draw the line between
the methods of coastal fishing and those of the deep sea, but the
-63
16-031 P87 bu

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.98)
following pages describe some of the more important methods and gear
used in the fisheries of the coasta? waters, i.e. within 20 to 30
miles of the shores of Japan proper. 29) Some of these same methods,
purse-seining and gill-netting, for example, were used farther from
shore.
Japanese fishing gear falls into two general categories, both
of which were used in the coastal fisheries: (1) nets, including
traps; and (2) hook and line. Japanese nets, in turn, may be considered
as of seven general types:
1. scoop or dip-nets, designed to scoop or dip fish from the
water.
2. casting nets, designed to spread out over fish, capturing
them as the weighted bottom is pulled together.
3. laying nets, designed to catch fish by laying a net beneath
fish, collecting them upon the not as it is lifted.
4. dragging nets (houl-seines) operated either from shore or
from boats.
5. trap or pound nets devised so as to entrap fish. The great-
est yield of the coastal fisheries probably came from these.
6. enveloping or encircling nets by which fish are enveloped.
7. entangling nets spread across the path of fish so as to
catch them by entangling them in meshes.
29 Many of the details for such operations are unfortunately sketchy
or lacking. It should be recognized that there are mumerous variations
of the gear described here.
-64-
10-03188 0u

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
ach of these general types had numerous varieties according to the
species sought, the locelity end, in some cases, according to the
season of operetion. Hook and line fishing, less important in total
production than net fishing consisted of simple angling (not used
extensively in coastal waters), hand trawls and line trawls.
In connection with the operations for the verious species
numerous devices were used to bring fish to a desired spot. These
included lighting, baiting, sheltering and helping spawning. Lighting
by means of oil, gas or electricity was used especially in the sardine,
mackerel and squid fisheries. Baiting, using either real or false
bait, was a common practice. By providing artificial shelter, by
protecting their natural refuge, and by aiding spawning through the
provision of shrubs, fish were essembled in places convenient for
their capture.
Another characteristic of the Japenese coastal fisheries,
which is brought out in the succeeding lescriptions, perhaps needs
emphasis. The crews of the boats of the coastal fisheries were dis-
proportionately large; eight men were quite common in a small boat
and 12 to 30 in ones slightly larger.
Sardines. There were many methods used to
catch sardines. Nets used were encircling nets, entangling nets,
dragging nets, trap nets, laying nets, casting rets and scoor nets -
1.o. nets of all seven general types.
-65-
10-031 PC0B1

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
The encircling nets, of which the purse seine was the most
important, were operated on a large scale for catching vast schools
of fish. With the increase in motor boats the use of these nets be-
came easier and more popular so that they were in recent years the
principal nets used in the deeper waters for sardines. Of the mumerous
varieties of the Japanese purse seines the dimensions of two are given
here. One type about 800 feet long and 180 feet deep was carried by
two boats 6 - 8 feet in beam manned by 20 to 30 or more men. Another
1, 200 feet in length and 120 feet deep was handled by 30 or more fisher-
men in two bosts of about eight feet in beam.
The drift net was simple and could be operated with relatively
small capital investment. One tyre consisted of 15 amaller nets (each
about 80 feet long) stitched together to make a length of 1, 200 feet.
The net was cast across the current by men in several small boats
and was generally left drifting from sunset until the following morning.
The drag net (baul seine) was the principel means used in
earlier years, but gradually had fallen into relative disuse as it could
be operated only when the fish came close to shore. One type consisted
of a large pocket l80 feet long and l80 feet in circumference and two
wings, each about 1, 500 feet long. Two boats manned by 30 men carried
the net and when a sardine school was surrounded by it, the boats
hauled the seine towaru the shore where the fish were finally caught
by being driven into the pocket as the wings were gradually drawn to
the land.
-66
16 031 P90 bu

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
Bottom laying nets 60 feet square laid flat in fairly shallow
water were also used for sardines. As soon as the fish were collected
in sufficient numbers over the net, it was rapidly lifted from all
sides by the combined crews of 4 - 8 boats.
fraps or pound nets were used at points near the shore to trap
schools of sardines; these frequently took enormous catches, but the
in-shore nature made for years of plentiful production alternating
with yeare of low production.
Herring were caught principally by trap or pound
nets, encircling nets, haul seines and gill nets. A square shaped
net called kaku-ami consisting of a main net and a fence net was the
most commonly used trap net. The main net was about 420 feet long, 60
feet wide and 60 feet deep, and the fence net about 700 feet long.
The trap was set near the shore with the fence net spread out so as
to guide the fish toward the trap. Also used was another type of trap
net called yukinari-ami.
One type of gill net consisted of 30 or more sets of nets
18 feet long and 45 feet deep stitched together. This net was cast
by either a single boat or several small ones working in cooperation.
Salmon were taken along the coast by haul seines,
trap nets and gill nets. One type of haul seine is reported as 3, 000
feet long, and a kaku-ami trap net is reported to consist of a main
net about 400 feet long and a fence net of more than 700 feet.
-67-
1A-031 P01 bu

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.98)
Cod were taken from boats by hand lines and trawl
lines. Hand lines of more than 500 feet in length, bearing two hooks
beited with herring or mackerel, were still used in immediate prewar
years but trawl lines were more common. The trawl lines consisted
of trunk lines about 1, 200 feet long to which short lines were attached
at the ends of which were hooks. ▲ trunk line with l00 or more hooks
made a "basket" and each boat carried 14 to 15 such baskets. Herring,
sardines, squid or flounders were used as bait.
For mackerel a purse seine and what is called a
"scare-cord seine" were commonly used. A purse seine for mackerel,
3, 300 feet long and about 200 feet deep, was cast by two boats while
one or two other boats assisted in surrounding the school; about 50 men
were required. One of the scare-cord seines used, consisting of a
pocket of about l08 feet and two wings each 3,000 feet long, was
operated from four boats manned by 50 - 60 men.
Tuna ware caught by drift nets, large trap nets,
haul seines and purse seines and by trolling as well as by trawl lines
and long-line (haenawa) although the latter two of these mothods were
used primarily beyond what can be called coastal waters.
Drift nets about 30 feet deep and 5,000 feet long were put out
in the evening across a current or wind direction in seas 30 - 60 miles
offsbore.
Tuna pound nets (maguro daivo-ami) with leader nets of 700 -
800 feet were set so as to capture tuna.
-68-
16-031 P92 bu

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
One type of purse seine used for tuna consisted of a 60 foot
pocket and wings of 2, 500 feet of strong net. Several boats with about
60 fishermen operated this net. This type of net was used for tuna off
Miyagi end Kanagawe prefectures.
Trawl lines ebout 1,400 feet long were used for tune from boats
with l0 or more fishermen to a boat.
Yellowtail were caught by mumerous methods, varying
according to the locality and season, but most commonly used were the
large trap nets called ojiki-ami. Gill-nets, Japanese trawls, trawl
lines and hand lines are also used.
The trap net used for this species consisted of a main net about
1, 000 feet long and 600 feet wide at the opening with a leader net
varying in length according to the nature of the fishing ground. The
trap which was set at a point where the fish were known to pass in their
migration was operated in some cases by as many as 12 boats, manned by
more than 100 fishermen.
Baiting was commonly used to attract yellowtail for several of the
methods.
Tai were taken in coastal waters by scare-cord
seines, haul seines, gill nets, laying nets and hand and trawl lines.
The scare-cord seine consisted of a pocket about l00 feet long and
two wings each more than 3,000 feet long. In this operation seven boats
manned by 60 men were employed: two boats to handle the net, two boats
to scare the fish into the net, two anchor boats and a look-out boat.
The boats went out to the fishing grounds before dawn, the scare boats
-69
16-031 P03 bu

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
cast the scare cord about 120 feet deep and by dragging it over the
bottom drove the tai into the net which was cast in a circle by the boats.
The fish were then driven into the pocket and caught.
Other species. Mounder and other flat fish were
caught by gill nets, the Japanese trawl, hand trawl and trawl lines.
Squid were caught by lines to which special gigs in the shape of false
bait were attached. This fishing was done at night, at first catching
squid in quite deep water but as the evening advances and the lights
brighten catching them closer to the surface. Sharks, abundant along the
Japenese coast, were taken by gill nets and trawl lines. Crabs were taken
by gill nets cast 8 - 12 miles from shore and also by trawl lines.
Lobsters were taken chiefly by gill nets, but the Japanese trawl and
hand trawls were used for shrimps and prawns. The gill net used for the
spiny lobster consisting of three sections (each about 60 feet long and
25 feet deep with four inch mesh) fastened together was cast by a boat
manned by 2 - 3 fishermen in the evening and hauled the following morning.
Abalone which cling to rocks at depths of 12 to 120 feet were taken by
"lancing" them from the rock by means of a long spade or by a small iron
implement used by divers. Seaweed was gathered by various dragged hooks.
Aquiculture.
General. About 120,000 metric tons of edible fish and
shellfish, 35,000 metric tons of seaweed and smaller amounts of other
products (goldfish, pearls and pearl shell) were produced annually in the
immediate prewar period by aquicul ture, an occupation in which more than
150,000 persons were engaged either part or full time from 1934 through
-70
16-031 P94 Du

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.99)
1937 (Table 4). From 141,000 to more than 162,000 places were reported
in operation (Table l4).
TABLE 14
Number of Establishments Engaged in Aquiculture,
Area and Value of Products
Dumber of
Area
Value of Product
(taubo)
Establishments
(yen)
1935
161,779
157,761,107
25,534,550
1936
162,326
154,930,254
25,551,596
1937
159,038
149,314,974
28,974,262
1938
158,629
151,201,913
30,110,429
1939
141,000
141,352,000
43,026,000
Source: Japan-Manchikuo Yearbook, 1940; Far East Yearbook, 1941.
▲ tsubo equals 3.95 square yards.
The more important items produced were carp, eel, ayu and trout;
various edible shellfish (particularly asari and oysters); sesweed (chiefly
Porphyra species); goldfish; pearl oysters and pearl shell (Table 15).
Tokyo, Shizuoka, Aichi, Mie, Chiba and Hiroshima prefectures were the
largest producers, each havin a yeild valued at mcre than a million yen
in 1937 (Table 16).
Carp Culture. The annual production of carp was about
11, 000 - 12,500 metric tons; in 1940 the production, lower than in other
recent years, was 10,504 tons (Table 15). Carp were raised in rearing
ponds, ricefields and in reservoirs, lakes and rivers; in l936 almost
150,000 places were raising carp. Shiga, Miyasaki, Miigata, Gifu and
Akita were important in this production as suggested by the large number
of hatcheries (Table 17). Chiba and Gumma prefectures were also large
-71-
16-031 P95 bu

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
16-031 P96
TAELE 15
bu
Production of Japanese Aquiculture, 1936 - 1940
(Quantity in 1,000 kan; value in 1,000 yen)
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Quantity
Value Quantity
Value Quantity
Value Quantity Value
Quamtity Value
Carp:
Ricefields
509
683
497
706
418
685
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Breeding-ponds
1,607
2,203
1,612
2,345
1,525
2,551
Reservoirs, marshes, etc.
1,257
1,629
1,250
1,973
1,033
1,820
Total
3,373
4,515
3,359
5,024
2,976
5,056
3,007 7,413 2,801
8,559
Eel:
Breeding ponds
1,809
4,931
1,864
5,019
1,919
6,549
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
-72-
Reservoirs, marshes, etc.
35
82
27
74
30
88
Total
1,844
5,013
1,891
5,093
1,949
6,637
2,034
9,230
2,012 10,984
Goldrish
555
581
554
667
386
531
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Oyster
15,741
1,858
14,949
2,023
12,145
1,961
11,085
3,290 12,357
3,754
Asari
11,359
890
16,460
1,274
13,805
1,803
14,689
3,319 15,953
3,066
Pearl a/
7.072
984
10,858
1,544
10,884
1,376
66856
2,869 31,850
2,116
Pearl shells a/
36,216
905
29,790
870
24,936
407
Amanori (Porphyra)
8,410
8,566
9,346
9,988
8,233
9,365
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Others
n.a.
2,240
n.a.
2,491
n.a.
2,974
n.a.
n.e.
n.a.
n.2.
Total Value
25,552
28,974
30,110
43,026
46,774
Source:
Data for 1936 - 1938 from Orient Yearbook, 1940; 1939 and 1940 data from Toyo Koizai Nenkan,
1943.
 Quantity given in thousande of shelle.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
16
Value of Aquiculture by Prefectures, 1937
(1,000 yen)
Hokkaido
107
Kyoto
132
Aomori
26
Osaka
306
Iwate
237
Hyogo
181
Miyagi
656
Nara
579
Akd ta
138
Wakayama
107
Yamagata
271
Tottori
58
Fukushima
136
Shimane
55
Ibaraki
94
Okayama
141
Tochigi
57
Hi roshima
1,070
Gumma
328
Yamaguchi
245
Sai tama
60
Tokushima
52
Chiba
1,546
Kagawa
68
Tokyo
4,861
Ehime
84
Kanagawa
815
Kochi
170
Niigata
258
Fuluoka
461
Toyama
64
Saga
500
Ishikawa
61
Nagasaki
399
Fukui
16
Kumaso to
495
Yamanashi
94
Oita
180
Nagano
619
Miyazaki
95
G1fu
187
Kagoshima
47
Shi zuoka
3,570
Okinawa
23
Aichi
3,051
Mie
2,538
To tal
25,553
Shiga
315
Source:
Nippon Suisan Nempo, 1938.
-73-
16-031 P97 bu

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.98)
producers, but carp was raised in all prefectures excepting in northern
Honshu and Horkaido where it is too cold for this species.
TABCE 17
Humber of Carp Rearing Hatcheries
Prefecture
Number of Batcheries
Shiga
250
Miyazaki
240
Niigata
185
Gifu
155
Aldta
135
Shi zuoka
75
Yamagata
50
Source: Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special
issue of Japan T1mes and Mail, 1939).
In raising carp in rice fields young fish about two centimeters
long were liberated about the end of June (shatly after rice planting)
and were 10 - 15 centimeters long when gathered at the end of September
(just prior to the removal of water from the paddy fields). Two-year
old carp about 15 centimeters long and l00 grams in weight when liberated
grew to about 32 centimeters and 500 grams by late September. Although
the fish fed mainly on ratural feed (chiefly water fleas) some prepared
feed (silkworm chrysalises) was generally provided.
Carp were reared in ponds by two methods -- calm water and running
water, of which the latter conducted most extensively in Gumma Prefecture
was considered somewhat better.
Among the larger lakes in which carp were raised were Lake Kasumi-
gaura, Lake Sawa, Lake Chuzenji and Lake Biw (at the southern end where
the water is sufficiently warm).
-74
16 031 P98 bu

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.98)
Eel Culture. About 7,500 metric tons of eels were pro-
duced annually chiefly in Shizuoka, Aichi and Mie prefectures. Shimucke
Prefecture is reported to have produced about 60 percent of the total and
Aichi Prefecture about 25 percent. Although the industry was conducted
mainly along bays (as in Shizuoka Prefecture), eels were also raised in
ponds, reservoirs, lakes and swamps. In l937 there were 1,370 eel-rearing
farms with more than 1, 400 hectares of ponds and eels were also raised
at 131,000 places on swamps, and in reservoirs having a total area of
1, 900 hectares. Among the lakes producing eels were Lake Bim, Lake
Chusenji, Lake Towado and Lake Kasumigaura.
For this production young eels were secured either by catching
them when they weighed about 20 grams along the ocean coast (particularly
the Pacific coast of Kyushu) or by capturing them when they were very
small (.13 to .2 grams) as they ascended rivers during the winter months.
In the latter case the baby eels were reared in special ponds until they
reached about 15 grams. Bels were fed raw sardines and silkworm crysalises.
Other Fish Culture. Ayu, salmon, trout and grey mullet were
among the other edible fish produced in considerable quantities by
aquicul ture.
Ayu (Plecoglossus altivelis), a small fresh-water fish somewhat
similar to the trout, is among the most prized fish for eating in the
Orient. It is widely distributed in the rivers of Japan and in recent
years has been cultivated. In l938 there were more than a hundred
commercial rearing ponds for this species. Young ayn, about 7 centimeters
long and 3.8 grams in weight, were liberated into ponds in April and early
-75
16-031 P99 bL

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
May and after a diet of sardines, powdered silkworm chrysalises and
weet potato flour were gathered when about 12 - 16 centimeters long and
15 - 37 grams in weigt.
Several species of trout and salmon (both inland and sea varieties)
were reared. A major part of this production was the rearing of spawning
ault fish and the hatching of young for the purpose of stocking rivers
and lakes. In 1936 there were reported to be 217 hatcheries which pro-
daced 106,655,000 individual f1sh and 361 rearing ponds producing 186,000
kilograms of fish. Hokkaido and Yamagata prefectures had the largest
number of trout and salmon hatcheries and rearing ponds although they
were mumerous throughout northern and central Japan.
Among the lakes in which trout (ame masu) was reared in considerable
amounts are Lakes Biwa (Shiga Prefecture), Ashi (Kanagawa Prefecture).
Shishaku (Hokkaido), Haruma (Gumma Prefecture), Chizuji and Nojiri and
Kisaki (Nagano Prefecture). Rainbow trout (introduced from the United
States in 1877) was stocked in Lake Inawashiro (Fukushima Prefecture)
and Lake Towado (Akita-Aomori); river trout (hime masu) was reared in
Towado and Chuzuji Lakes.
Aquiculture in lakes and large marshes (not only trout and salmon
but also other species including eel, carp and ayu) is in most cases
conducted by some government or public organization for public benefits
whereas the cultivation of fish in small ponds, reservoirs or rice fields
is largely done by private enterprise. Prefectural governments through
their fisheries experiment stations, fishery associations, municipalities
and villates and fishery unions have all helped in the stocking of lakes
-76
16031 P100bu

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.98)
The breeding of ornamental goldfish (a relative of the carp)
produced annually 60 million fiah valued at * 531,000 -  667,000. Ino
industry centered largely in Tokyo, Nara and Aichi prefectures.
Shellfish Culture. The ten principal species of shellfish
cultivated for food purposes in Japan were:
Japanese Hame
Scientific Name
English Name
Hamaguri
Meretrix meretrix
Clam
Asari
Tapes philippinarum
Clan-like
Baka-gai
Mactra sulcataria
Trough-shell
Ho-tate-gai
Pecten yessoensis
Pecten or scallop
Aba-gai
Anadara inflata
Bloody-clam
Hai-gai
Anadara granosa
Bloody-clam like
Mo-gai
Anadara subcrenata
Bloody-clam like
Age-maid
Sinovacula constricta
Razor shell like
Awabi
Haliotis gigantoa
Sea-car
Ma-sizimi
Corbicula leana
Corbicula
All except ma-sizimi were reared along shallow sea coasts: it was produced
in lakes, rivers and swamps in all parts of Japan except Hokkaido.
Of these asari and hamaguri (clam and "clam like") were reared
most extensively, especially asari of which more than 60,000 metric tons
were raised in 1937 (Table 15). They were reared in shallow coastal waters,
especially in places where the bottom was sandy or slimy and where there
was some admirture of fresh water from rivers with the sea water. Among
the most important producing areas was Tokyo Bay where 1,200 fishermen
were engaged in this industry.
Hotate-gai (scallops) were reared most ertensively along the
eastern coast of Hokkaido by a procedure similar to that used for oysters.
The spats which are free-swimming were collected on old shells suspended
in the water of calm bays and later the scallops were transferred to open
coastal waters where tuey contimued their development.
-77-
16-031 P101 bu

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
Oyster Culture. In the immediate pre-war years 46,000 -
60,000 metric tons of oysters were produced (Table 15). Although several
species were raised, magaki (Ostrea gigas) was the main one. The prin-
cipal centers of production were in Hiroshima, Miyagi, Saga and Shizuoka
prefectures although small-scale culture was carried on in nearly all
the southern prefectures bordering the Pacific and those bordering the
Inland Sea. Hiroshima Prefecture claimed half the total production.
Two methods were used: (1) an older method of planting wiers of
bamboo or branches at a height so that at low tide they are exposed
above the sea water for the collection of spats; and (2) "the new-hanging
method" by which oysters are suspended on floating rafts making it un-
zecessary to pay attention to the condition of the sea bottom.
Deep-Sea Fisheries.
General. The so-called Japanese "deep-sea fisheries"
consist of operations in "home waters" plus trawling, fishing in north-
ern waters, distant tuna and bonito operations and fishing off Korea,
Formosa, Kwantung and the Mandated Ialands. 30/ Whaling, here included
under special fisheries, is also sometimes considered as part of the
deep-sea fisheries.
In general, the deep-sea fisheries differ from coastal fishing
in several respects. Boats go out much farther from their home bases
as operations are either in the deep sea or in shallow waters at
30 "Deep-sea" fishing is really a misnomer as some of these operations
are carried on in shallow water. This classification is used here, how-
ever, since there are valid distinctions on the basis of type of operation
and since Japanese statistics divide the industry this way.
78
16 031 P 102 bu

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.99)
considerable distance from the honeland. They are larger vessels and
the equipment is more expensive; some of the vessels are more than
l00 - 200 tons and many are equipped with steam or Diesel engines. Due
to the expensive equipment required for it, deep-sea fishing is of rather
recent development and is for the most part large-scale enterprise in
the hands of companies. Equipment and methods are more standardised
than in the coastal fisheries. The catch is landed at fewer ports.
The total deep-sea catch, as here considered, amounted to well over a
million metric tons in pre-war years divided as in Table 18.
In the following pages these fisheries are described but not by
groupings which are mutually exclusive. The figures in Table 18, however,
do not overlap and therefore provide as accurate a total figure for the
production of deep-sea fisheries as can be obtained. These do not
include, however, the production of the floating canneries.
Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters. The area of operations
in "home waters" is not delimited by the Japanese and may include
operations off the Kuriles, the Bonins and Karafuto and bonito and
tuna operations at considerable distances as well as fishing directly
off Japan proper. This type of fishing may also include the drag net
fishing near Japan proper. There is really no clear distinction between
these fisheries and some of the coastal fisheries, on the one hand,
and some of the other deep-sea operations, on the other hand.
-79
16-031 P103 bu

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
16-031 P104 bu
TAHLE 18
Production of "Deep-Sea Fisheries," 1936 - 1940
(1,000 kan)
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Home Waters
259,964
229,796
210,255
209,204
211,359
Trawling
13,887
13,380
10,072
9,710
9,002
Northern Fisheries 
22,854
21,994
19,190
20,403
13,609
Waters of Korea, Formosa,
-80-
Kwantung and South
Seas Mandated Islands
15,336
12,078
9,619
7,008
n.a.
Totel
312,041
277,248
249,136
246,325
n.a.
n.a. - not available.
Source: Compiled from data given in other tables in this report. Data are
official Japanese figures.
a Includes only the salmon production of Soviet waters. Catch data for other northern
fisheries are not available.

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.98)
Tables 19 to 22 summarize the production, the number of vessels
and the methods used in deep-sea fishing in home waters in recent years.
Production in 1938 was 788, 000 metric tons for the operation of more
than 8,800 vessels with crews totaling more than 113,000. Sardines made
up more than a quarter of the catch by volume and bonito, tuna and cod
were taken in large quantities. Landings by volume were largest in
Hokkaido, Chibe, Fukushima, Fukuoka, Yamaguchi and Miyagi prefectures.
(Table 11).
Tuna and Bonito Fishing constituted one of the
important fisheries in "home maters". These fish together accounted for
more than 135,000 metric tons. anmually in prewar years and for them and
the species which associate with them, Japan operated modern fishing
vessels capable of month-long cruises. 31/ Most of these vessels are
50 - 200 tons, Diesel powered and have arrangements for cold storage.
It 1s estimated that 1,500 to 2,000 deep-sea boats operated in
the tuna and bonito fishery, most of them based upon ports of eastern
Japan - Shizuoka, Miyagi, Mie, Kochi, Oita, Kagoshima, Ibaraki, Wakayama
and Miyazakd prefectures.
In the winter months some of the larger boats operated in the
southern tropical waters, shifting northward in the spring and summer as
these migratory species moved northward. The entire area thus fished
was enormous, extending from the South Seas northward through the Bonins
31 Although the description here speaks only of tuna and bonito.
mackerel, spearfish and swordfish, yellowtail and samma are all taken
by somewhat similer operations.
81-
16-031 P105bu

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
19
Production of Deep-Sea FHsheries in Home Waters, 1936 - 1940
16-031 P106
bu
Tatal Production
Sardno
Bonito
Mackerel
Tung
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
kan
yen
ban
yen
ban
yen
kan
yen
ban
yon
1936
259,964
87,483
86,922
7,779
22,881
12,963
10,967
4,321
11,247
11.071
1937
229,796
89,887
53,958
6,977
24,820
13,187
10,211
3,894
9,866
12,340
1938
210,255
110,542
38,889
5,551
27,857
19,514
8,078
3,895
10,654
15,440
1939
209,204
142,557
59,368
12,324
23,004
23,407
6,506
4,701
13,691
21,888
1940
211,359
194,611
57,762
21,700
25,629
36,527
11,233
10,611
11,446
25,127
Source:
Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
TABLE
20
-82-
Production of Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters by Species, 1939
Quantity
Value
(1000 kan)
(1000 yen)
Sardine
59,368
12,324
23,004
23,407
Bonito
Cod
22,009
8,408
Tuna
13,691
21,888
Shark
13,669
6,565
atfish
11,646
11,271
Mackerel
6,506
4,701
Skipper
3,012
2,646
Sea bream
1,716
5,043
Others
54,583
46,304
Total
209,204
142,557
Source:
Norinsho Tokeihyo, 1939.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
TARLE
21
Vessels and Crews Engaged in Deep-Sea Fishing in Home Waters, 1935 - 1938
Total
Vessels Without Engines
Vessels With Engines
Number of
Number of
Number of
Number of
Number of
Number of
Vessels
Tonnage
Crew
Vessels
Tonnage
Crew
Vessels
Tonnage
Crew
1935
8,984
199,069
115,689
171
1,321
1,133
8,813
197,757
114,556
1936
9,885
215,026
125,775
240
1,940
1,391
9,645
213,086
124,384
1937
9,783
221,925
122,892
215
1,679
1,134
9,568
220,246
121,758
1938
8,836
211,968
113,148
167
1,370
1,297
8,669
210,598
111,851
-83-
1938:
Circle net
916
15,188
14,326
18
111
369
898
15,077
13,957
Deep-sea net
1,732
52,027
16,041
10
550
115
1,722
51,477
15,926
Drift net
1,185
20,280
11,302
11
44
49
1,174
20,236
11,253
Long line
2,780
63,654
30,603
15
73
60
2,765
63,581
30,543
Hand line
618
10,188
7,754
112
582
695
506
9,606
7,059
Bonito angling
891
37,192
24,821
1
10
9
890
37,182
24,812
Others
714
13,439
8,301
1
714
13,439
8,301
Total
8,836
211,968
113,148
167
1,370
1,297
8,669
210,598
111,851
Source:
Japan-Manchuikuo Yearbook, 1940.
16-031 P107
bu

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.98)
16-031 P108
bu
BABLE
22
Production of Deep-Sea Fisheries in Home Waters by Method, 1938
Sardine
Bonito
Mackerel
Tuna
Cod
Shark
Total (ingluding
others)
(1,000
ban)
(1,000 yen)
Circle net
33,283
16
1,128
102
81
71
6,875
Deep-sea net
71
21
336
14
11,201
5,762
2,656
43,623
Drift net
4,646
163
90J
193
5,079
6,621
-840
Long line
503
743
8,409
14,146
2,559
626
26,012
Band line b/
2,085
3,036
87
27
46
15
5,738
Bonito angling
25,230
492
829
420
17,984
Others
949
9
2,179
312
109
3,688
Total
38,889
27,857
8,078
10,654
25,647
13,627
3,298
110,542
d
Trawl-line.
Includes trolling.
Source:
Japan-Manchukuo Yearbook, 1940.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
to waters east of Japan proper north as far as the Kuriles. 32/ East-
ward vessels range 2,000 or more miles from their home ports. The
"mingling region" lying along the line of convergence of the Kuroshio and
Oyashio, which shifts according to seasons and other factors, was the most
productive zone for the pelagic Scombroids. The Japanese who had de-
roted much scientific study to the natural conditions related to tuna
and bonito were uneble to predict areas of high productivity. 33/
The chief method used for deep-sea tuna fishing was line-trawling:
this accounted for about 80 percent of the deep-sea tuna catch. Bonito
was taken largely by rod and line. Purse-seine, drift netting and
trolling were used but were distinctly of minor importance (Table 22).
Line-trawling (haenawa) for tuna was similar to American line
trawling except for differences in details. Wooden or glass floats
were used instead of cork buoys and the line and ganging were kept
aboard in baskets rather than in tubs. Approximately 100 "hachis"
(baskets of trawl-line) were loaded for 50 - 100 ton vessels and 200 -
300 baakets for the larger 150 - 160 ton vessels. For a vessel of 60
or 60 tons 12 - 14 fishermen were needed; for the larger vessels 25 or
more constituted the crew. The lines, baited with cuttlefish, mackerel
or sardines, werewually cast at dawn or in the evening. 34/
32 Tuna which have a wider distribution are taken off Hokkaido and
the Kuriles whereas bonito are not taken in quantity north of 420 in
the deep seas. The species which accompany tuna and bonito are more
diverse and abundent in the southern waters.
33/ Office of Strategic Services typed report, "The Fishing Industry
of Japan," June 1942 gives further details including maps, charts and
tables concerning area of operation and seasonal changes.
34/ Y. Sugiura, Suisan, 1939.
-85
18-031 P109 bu

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
Rod and line angling (ippon zuri) for bonito was carried on by
large crews of fishermen who lined one side of the vessel, standing
a few inches above the water on a narrow rack. When a shoal was sighted,
livebait which was carried in tanks was thrown out to slow up the
movement of the fish. As the bonito bit, the livebait was gradually
replaced by lures. The biting was usually over in less than a half
hour. The fish, piled on the deck during the operations, were then
stowed below in the fish wells and the boat moved on to search another
shoal. If the biting had been good severel thousand fish were caught
in a few minutes.
Trawling and "Bottom Dragging". The capture of bottom
feeding species, chiefly Sciaena species and flatfish but also sea
breams, sharks and others, by means of trawling was really of two
rather distinct types as operated by the Japanese. The first was that
by large modern vessels operating otter trawls; the second that of
considerably smaller boats using simple drag nets. The term "trawling"
sometimes applies only to the former, but at other times is used to
include both. Table 23 gives the official production statistics.
Trawling. The large trawlers operated chiefly in
the East China Seas and the Yellow Sea al though some operated in the
South China Sea and, in the years immediately preceding the war, a few
worked in foreign waters (Table 8). The waters of the East China Sea,
the Yellow Sea and the South China Sea were divided into districts
which have been carefully mapped according to productivity. Konda 35/
reports that of the 20 fishing districts of the East China and Yellow
35 Seij1 Konda, Geography of the Marine Industry of Japan, 1936.
-86
16-031 P110 bu

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
23
Production fron Japanese Trawling, 1935 - 1940
Total
Sciaena
Sciaena
Pagrus
Production
schlegelii
japonica
Flatfish
Shark
major
Others
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000
1,000 1,000 1,000 1,0001,0001,000 1,000
kan
yen
koan
yen
can
yen
kan
yen
kan
yen
kan yen
kan
yen
1935
14,258
7,044
4,782
1,697
1,381
1,155
1,050
608
460
137
53
72
6,531
3,376
1936
13,887
6,831
4,753
1,854
738
723
881
612
572
178
28
51
6,915
3,413
1937
13,380
7,951
4,613
2,070
1,054
938
663
508
451
158
23
51
5,557
4,227
1938
10,072
7,670
3,230
1,989
1,037
1,080
458
482
305
136
18
25
5,024
3,958
1939
9,710
9,676
3,326
2,671
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
n.a.
1940
9,002
10,912
3,081
3,341
n.a.
n.a.
n.B.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a.
n.a.
n.a. - not available.
-87.
Source:
Statistical Abstract of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. 1936;
Toyo Kei zai Nenkan, 1943.
16-031
011

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.98)
Seas, four produced about 60 percent of the entire production of this
area. Likewise in the South China Seas some areas were very productive
whereas others were low in productivity.
The trawlers were licensed by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and were strictly limited in mumber. The mumber permitted to
operate in waters of Japan proper, the China See and the Yellow Sea was
limited to 70; a few other vessels of this class operated, however, in
other waters. Trawling in the China See was also limited to certain
seasons: north of 250 N. from October 1 to June 1; and south of 25º .
from May 1 to November 1.
The operations off the China coast which provided the bulk of the
trawling production were of a large-scale commercial nature carried on
chiefly by one company (Nippon Suisan K. K.) with modern vessels, equip-
ment and production techniques. In 1937 it operated 6l of the vessels
working in the East China Sea and the Tellow Sea. The trawlers of this
company, vessels of several hundred tons driven by steam or Diesel engines,
had their chief base of operations at Shimonoseki where constant control
over the fleet was kept. Each trawler was equipped with wireless so that
at all times it was in touch with the base. When a boat started work,
it notified the business office in Shimonoseki of its location and after
every 10 hauls made a full report on its catch (quantities and species).
The office, which constantly kept in touch with the fish markets at home,
notified trawlers at work of the prevailing prices for various kinds of
fish so that the catch could be evaluated. Trawlers in touch with one
another by wireless could rush to places where the catch was most
-88
16-031 P112bu

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.98)
profitable at the time. In addition to these commercial purposes the
wireless was also used to keep every trawler at see fully informed of
weather changes.
The trawlers were away 12 - 14 days each voyage: of these, 4 - 6
days were required in going to and returning from the grounds, some of
which were more than 800 miles distant. Thus 8 - 10 days on the average
were spent in actual work each trip. Each trawler made about 35 - 40
hauls during each voyage, one haul taking 5 - 58 hours. Upon their
return to port, the trawlers did not normally lay over more than 24 hours
so that apart from the time necessary for periodic repair and overhaul-
ing (about one month per year) each trawler made about 20 - 24 voyages
per year.
Fish caught by the company's fleet was landed at Shimonoseki.
Hakata and Nagasaki, but the largest amounts were brought to Shimono-
seld 36/ which had the best facilities for the quick transportation to
the large urban fish consuming centers.
Bottom dragging. These operations carried on by
smaller vessels of 20 to l00 tons had a more restricted cruising radius.
They used hand-reel nets which in most cases were drawn by two vessels
working together.
There appears to have been 1,800 - 2,000 such vessel: in operation
in recent years although one source reports more than 3,000 in 1931.
36 According to one source 56 vessels made Shimonoseki their head-
quarters in a recent year while 8 worked from Nagasaki and 6 from
Halbata.
-89
10-031 Pr13 bu

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.98)
In 1933 the 1,823 vessels were distributed as follows: 37/
Offshore waters
East of 1300E and north of 250 N
870
West of 130° E and north of 25°
765
Hwantung waters
116
Korean and Soviet waters
60
South China Sea
12
Total
1,825
Like the larger other trawlers these vessels were limited in
mumber and in the extent of their operations. Each boat was licensed
by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. To protect the coastal
fisheries of the mall villages, drag-netting was not permitted along
most coastal areas. 38/
The dragging vessels in offshore waters operated from ports of
the west coast prefectures, chiefly Nagasaki and Tamagmahi, with maller
mumbers from Fukioka and Saga prefectures. In 1933, 90l of the vessels
operating in offshore waters were from Nagasakd Prefecture and 559 from
Yamaguchi. The ll6 Japanese vessels operating in Kwantung waters
secured permits from the government of Kwantung Leased Territory and
made Dairen and Pert Arthur their home ports. The vessels working in
watere along the Korean and Soviet coasts were based on the ports of
mettherm Japan; in 1933, 23 were from Hyogo Prefecture and 21 from Hokdaido.
37 Seiji Konda, Geography of the Marine Industry of Japan, 1936.
Presumably the production from the drag-net boats in the offshore
waters is included in either the coastal fisheries or the deep-sea
fisheries in home waters (probably the latter). The South China Sea
production may be included in production figures for deep-sea operations
in "home waters" or with trawling. The production from the operations
in the other areas presumably is included in production of Korean waters
and Northern waters.
38/ Some sources say it was prohibited in all coastal areas. but may
be referring to trawling rather than drag netting.
-90
16-031' P114 bu

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
The Northern Fisheries.
General. Included in the "Northern Fisheries," as
usually considered are three major categories: the fisheries in Soviet
waters, the floating factory fisheries and the fishing off the Northern
Kuriles. 39/ Together these accounted for an annual production valued
from  72 million to * 132 million in the period 1936 - 1940 (Table 24).
Figures giving the volume of the entire catch of these fisheries are not
available because part of the catch is immediately canned or processed.
It may be roughly estimated at between 200,000 and 300,000 metric tons
annually in the prewar period. 40/
TABLE 24
Value of Japanese Northern Fisheries, 1936 - 1940
(1,000 yen)
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Fisheries in Sovlet
35,489
37.598
44,007
49,164
44,524
Waters
Factory Ship Production
19,181
25,809
28,136
31,573
21,623
Fishing off Northern
17,807
25,483
30,663
42,920
25,315
Kuriles
Total
72,477
88,890 102,806 133,657
91,462
Source: Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
39 The fisheries of Karafuto and the southern Kuriles might well be
included in the "northern fisheries," but statistics on the production
of these areas generally are not included. Small coastal fishing craft
operate off the wouthern Kuriles and also predominate off Karafuto where-
as the northern fisheries described here are of a larger scale commer-
cialized nature based on Japan proper.
40/ The statistics available make it difficult to estimate the production
of the Northern fisheries in terms of weight as caught. Some estimates
place the 1938 production as high as 350,000 metric tons.
-91-
16-031 P115 bu

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.99)
Most of this northern catch was normally exported; one estimate
places the erport at 65 to 70 percent of the production, the remaining
30 to 35 percent being for domestic consumption. Approximately one-
fourth to one-third of Japan's prewar fishery exports are reported to
originate in these fisheries.
The northern fisheries provided employment, full or part-time,
for about 40,000 - 50,000 persons. Most of these were seasonal workers
recruited from the small farming-fishing villages of northern Honahu and
Eokkaido. From April or May until September they fished or processed
fish in the northern areas and then returned to eke out a meager living
from the desolate land and the coastal waters of their home districts.
Hakodate and Otaru in Hokkaido were the bases of operations for
the northern fisheries, the ports from which the fishing and supply
vessels sailed and at which there were facilities for shipbuilding and
ship repairing, can manufacturing and storage. Hakodate was also the
main erport point for the canned products.
The northern fisheries are controlled by "big business." At one
time more than a hundred small firms were operating in these areas but
after successive mergers over a period of years most of the operations
by 1939 had come under two large companies: the Nichiro Gyogo K. K.
which had virtually a monopoly over the fishing in Soviet waters and
also operated in the northem Kuriles; and the Nippon Suisan which
operated the crab canneries and also the trawl fisheries off the Kuriles
-92-
16-031 P116 bu

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
and Kamchatka. 41
The areas fished, the location of fishery lots and of the canneries
for the year 1940 are shown in Figure 8. Production of canned fish is
discussed in more detail under Processing (pagesl27-136), but is also
mentioned here because it is impossible to separate production and pro-
cessing for these northern fisheries. Each of the three subdivisions of
the northern fisheries is discussed briefly in turn.
Fisheries in Soviet Waters. The fishing in Soviet waters
was done along the Soviet coast by virtue of the Russo-Jepanese Fishing
treaty which not only permitted fishing in these waters but also provided
for the leasing of fishing lots by the Japanese. This enterprise which
has frequently given rise to disputes between the Soviet Union and Japan
(pages l85-l88) was the oldest of the northern fisheries and in recent pre-
war years still provided the largest output. Japanese operations engaged
about 20,000 men and 150 vessels in recent years and production was
valued at ? 35 - 49 million, of which canned fish constituted about
60 porcent (Table 25). 42/
In this fishery Japanese and Russians both have rented "lots" 43/
and carry on fishing for salmon and crab. From the shore bases shore trap
nets are operated to catch salmon and nets for crab. In 1940 the lots
41 See pages 178-l81 for more details of these companies.
 During the war, particularly since 1942, the production of this
fishery has been greatly reduced but a report of May 1945 indicated
expected operations on "25 grounds in four areas."
43/ The "lots" consisted of specified ground on shore, 340 meters
wide and 90 deters deep where processing plants, barracks and other
accomodations for the workers were built. By the stipulations of the
treaty, no lots could be closer together than 2,l20 meters.
-93
16-031 P117 notu

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.95)
EDITION
136
140
144
148
152
196
40
164
160
172
COMFIDENTIAL
JAPANESE AND RUSSIAN FISHERIES
IN
THE
NORTHWEST PACIFIC
LOCALITIES WITH AT LEAST ONE JAPANESE CANNERY REPORTED
LOCALITIES WITH AT LEAST ONE RUSSIAN CANNERY REPORTED
JAPANESE FLOATING CANNERIES (SALMON) 1936
JAPANESE FLOATING CANNERIES (CRAB) 1936
OLIUTORSXII
RUSSIAN
SALMON FISHERIES
GIZHIGINSKI
(59,36:4,0)
D
JAPANESE LEASED SALMON FISHERIES
(10,27)
RUSSIAN
JAPANESE LEASED CRAB FISHERIES
CRAB FISHERIES
60
FISHING AREAS FREQUENTED BY JAPANESE ONLY
0
KICHIGINSKII
(44,30)
60
which follow indicole ine number of fishing lots worked by
Ploce namos in ITALiCS reter to fishing districts Numbers
Penzhinskaya
00
Russions (firs! number) and Japanese (second number) in 1940
Gulf
Underscored numbers refer to crab fishing ipis, others to solmon
KARAGINSKI
(10,71)
BERING
0
OKHOTSK
SEA
(29,24)
TAUSK
(10,0)
(33,54:6,12)
ITINSKI
△
0
56
S E A O F
KOMANDORSKI
IS.
NIKOLAEVSK
00
(2,0)
O K H O T S K
EAST KAMCHATKA
(23,15:2,0)
KIKNCHINSKI
(28,33:5,5)
52
PETROPAVLOVSK
52
BOLSHERETSKII
SAKHALIN
(25,33:5,0)
(:8,4)
PRIMORSKII
(68,5:2,0)
ALEXANDROVSKI
Arqido
.Shimushu To
Paramushiru 1
SOVIETSKAYA
GAVAN'
TOrlery
48
10
48
KARAFUTO
100
200
300
MILES
0
D
190
140
BERING
SEA
SEA
HOKKAIDO
DKNOTSE
WORTH
PACIFIC
MOKIDO
OCEAN
HAKODATE
HONSHU
4o
148
152
100
180
185
MAP NO. 504, MAY14,1942
COMPILED ANO ORAWN IN THE GEOGRAPHY DIVISION COI

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
25
Japanese Fisheries in Soviet Waters, 1936 - 1940
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Number of Fisheries:
Leased for the year
399
389
386
356
349
Worked for the year
376
355
328
296
307
Fishing Vessels:
Steamships - Number
152
141
131
118
169
- Tonnage
360,653
331,734
309,884
307,496
433,198
Sailing ships - Number
1
1
1
- Tonnage
525
525
525
Fishermen
20,364
19,858
19,031
n.a.
n.a.
Production
Total, Koku
571,351
549,858
479,745
510,000
340,234
Dog Salmon, Koku
337,561
176,750
169,859
122,382
139,841
Salmon Trout, Koku
164,627
298,869
221,873
323,287
152,603
Red Salmon, Koku
67,204
71.106
86,661
63,012
45,964
King Salmon, Koku
1,925
3,086
1,257
1,433
1.681
Herring Guano, Koku
34
47
95
27
145
Crab, pieces (thousands)
6,565
7,759
8,428
8,968
6,509
Fishery Products, Prepared
Total - Value (1000 yen) 35,489
37,598
44,007
49,164
44,524
Salt cured:
Total
Quantity, Koku
376,434
555.432
258,011
257,104
173,784
Value (1000 yen)
13,099
11,698
11.667
16,192
12,833
Salmon
Quantity, Koku
307,578
374,486
151,552
107,201
118,431
Value (1000 yen)
11,538
7,825
8,536
9,255
10,084
Salmon Trout
Quantity, Koku
68,856
180,946
106,459
149,903
55,353
Value (1000 yen)
1,560
3,873
3,131
6,938
2,749
Canned:
Total
Quantity, Cases
1,147,243
1,155,407
1,287,946
1,193,630
1,030,998
Value (1000 yen)
20,198
23,235
29,011
27.911
26,758
Red Salmon
Quantity, Cases
343,000
342,325
444,624
n.a.
n.B.
Value (1000 yen)
8,826
11,841
15,985
12,061
10,472
-94-
18-031 P119 bu

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 25 (Contimued)
Japanese Fisheries in Soviet Waters, 1936 - 1940
1936
1937
1938
1939
1940
Salmon
Quantity, Cases
117,000
1,318
35,015
n.e.
n.a.
Value (1000 yen)
2,425
26
695
599
1,018
Salmon Trout
Quantity, Cases
637,000
733,055
728,328
n.a.
n.a.
Value (1000 yen)
6,338
7,084
7,886
11,356
12.499
Crab
Quantity, Cases
50,000
78,709
79,979
n.a.
n.a.
Value (1000 yen)
2,610
4,284
4,445
3,895
2.768
Others
Value (1000 yen)
2,192
2,666
3,329
5,061
4,933
1 Kolu  40 kan.
n.a. - not available
Source:
Orient Yearbook, 1940; Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
-95-
10-031 P120 bu

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.99)
leased to the Japanese mumbered 349, less than 50 percent of the total
mumber although in earlier years Japan had a much larger share; in l924,
for example, it rented 88 percent of the total mumber. According to
Japanese statistics in the period 1934 - 1939 Japan averaged 76 percent
of the rent and 57 percent of the salmon catch from slightly less than
half of the lots and 40 percent of the rent and 45 percent of the crab
catch from about one-third of the lots (Table 26). The areas of Japanese
operations, both fishing and processing, are chiefly along the coasts of
Kamchatka but some are along the Okhotak and Primorsk coasts of Siberia
(Table 27 and Figure 8). 44/
Moating Factory Fisheries. Floating factory
operations, concentrated on salmon and crab, were carried on chiefly
in the Okhotsk and Bering Seas north of 5lo N. and beyond the three
mile limit of territorial waters. 45/ Most of the fishing was near the
coasts of Kamchatka (both east and west). but some of the vessels worked
out into Bering Sea. 46/ In recent prewar years 6 - 11 large salmon
factory vessels and 4 - 9 crab factory vessels, each attended by
auxiliary ships, were operating in this fishery and more than 6,000
44 Japanese operations in the waters of the Primorak region of Siberia
and in the waters of Sakhalin are very limited. These areas are fished
almost emclusively by the Russians. The Japanese, however, had nine lots
in the Primorak region in 1939 (Table 27).
45/ The mothership system of salmon fishing was limited by official
regulations to areas north of 51º N., thus excluding these floating
canneries from the coastal waters of Hokkaido, Karafuto and the Kuriles.
46/ Since l930 several crab canneries have operated in Bristol Bay.
Alaska and in 1937 and 1938 the catching of salmon in these waters
aroused American fishermen (see page 188).
-96
16-031 P121 bu

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
16-031
P
22
t3
1g
TABLE
26
Soviet Water Fishery
Japanese Operations
Salmon and Trout
Crab
Total
Rental
Quota
Rental
Quota
Rental
Number of
71,000
(1,000
Number of
(1,000
(1,000
Number of
71,000
Grounds
rubles)
centner)
Grounds
rubles)
cases)
Grounds
rubles)
1934
369
6,627
1,367
17
440
105
386
7,067
1935
378
6,804
1,380
17
440
105
395
7,244
1936
382
6,840
1,386
17
440
105
399
7,280
1937
372
6,742
1,351
17
439
105
389
7,181
6
1938
369
6,771
1,346
17
440
105
386
7,210
1939
339
6,592
1,197
17
464
105
356
7,056
Soviet Operations
1934
333
1,576
957
32
723
130
365
2,479
1935
343
2,189
983
32
711
130
375
2,900
1936
387
2,285
1,019
32
711
130
419
2,997
1.937
388
2,378
1,017
31
694
127
419
3,072
1938
375
2,342
988
27
647
117
402
2,990
1939
361
2,160
950
23
584
106
384
2,744
Note:
The term "quota" is the maximum amount of catch permitted under the
Soviet-Japanese agreement. The quota has been reached invariably each year.
Source:
Far East Yearbook, 1940.

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 27
Japanese Fishery Establishments in Siberia, 1939
Location
Number of
Yield
Canneriesa/
Refrig-
Freezing
Lots
eratorsa
Plants 
Dastern Kamchatka:
N.E. Kamchatka
138
Salmon
8
24
4
S.E. Kanchatka
15
Salmon,
crab
Western Kamchatka:
N.W. Kamchatka
73
Salmon
S.W. Kanchatka
Salmon and)
25
24
0
salmon
trout,
crab
Okhotsk Coast
42
Salmon
1
7
0
trout,
herring
Primorsk
9
Salmon and
0
0
0
salmon
trout
Total
348
34
55
4
controls all the operations in Soviet waters. In 1938 the company
operated 10 amall storage plants on vessels in addition to 48 ice
storage plants. Presumably this type of plant on vessels was also
operated in 1939.
Source: O.S.S. report "The Fishing Industry of Japan," June 1942.
-98
16-031 P123 bu

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.99)
fishermen and workers were employed on these floating canneries
(Tab1e 28).
Floating salmon canneries made their first appearance in l927,
in direct competition with the fishery of the leased lots; fishing con-
cems which had lost their lots to the Nichiro Gyogyo K. K. turned to
floating canneries. After 1935, however, when there was an amalgama-
tion of the canneries under a subsidiary of the Nichiro Gyogyo K. K.,
the factory vessels were developed in competition with Soviet opcrators
of leased lots. Most of the canned salmon produced on floating factory
ships were red salmon, the most valuable canned product and also the
mainstay of the fishing lots. 47/
Floating crab canneries, controlled by Nippon Suisan, accounted
for about half of the Japanese production of canned crab in 1936 and
other prewar years. 48/ The system of operation was much like that
for salmon. The season began in April and lasted until October.
Actual fishing was done from small "kawasaki" boats, which spread
their gill nets 49/ in lengths of 2 to 4 miles along the sea bottom
surrounding the cannery. The crabs caught, giant or "taraba-kani"
crabs, were taken to the factory ships for canning.
47 Operations of floating salmon canneries as conducted were in
many respects tantamount to an economic blockade against coastal
fisheries. Shore canneries complained of decreases in the size of
fish caught and reported that many were marked by the nets of the
floating canneries.
48/ Competing with the Japanese ships for crab after 1928 were float-
ing crab canneries of the Soviet Union.
49 Each crab catcher boat carried about 500, 168 foot gill nets of
18" mesh (stretched) which were used in the lengths of several miles.
-99
16-031 P124 bu

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
28
Japanese Factory Ship ishing, 1935 - 1940
Salmon and Salmon Trout
Fishing Vessels
Catch
Value of Manufactures
Number of
Number
Number
(thousand yen)
Tender
of
in
Number
Tonnage
Ships
Men
1,000
Total
Canneda
Salted
Frozen
Hish Eggo
1935
8
29,456
250
4,972
11,544
10,129
7,785
1,651
590
104
1936
6
20,467
170
3,478
8,796
9,691
7,409
1,760
455
67
1937
7
22,002
170
3,310
10,115
14,615
12,051
1,750
691
123
1938
7
21,826
170
3,529
9,830
14,250
10,449
3,632
169
1939
.1
34,451
n.a.
n.a.
11,651
21,132
15,146
5,290
375
320
1940
1o
33,661
n.a.
n.a.
10,400
15,558
9,563
5,554
441
-100-
Crab
Fishing Vessele
Number
Catch
Canned Produgtion
Number
Tonnage
of Men
Number in 1, 000'
Number of cases
Value
(1,000 yen)
1935
9
34,112
3,124
11,332
171,000
8,429
1936
9
36,737
3,243
13,948
184,836
9,490
1937
9
36,749
3,420
14,913
204,375
11,194
1938
8
28,750
2.824
18,536
253,596
13,886
1939
7
24,805
n.a.
14,230
204,000
10,441
1940
4
13,588
n.a.
8,558
122,400
6,065
a
Number of cases given in Table 25.
0
Tender ships for crab canneries mumbered 104 in 1936.
16-031
1 case of crab equals 22.32 kilograms.
P125
Source:
Japan Yearbook 1940-41; Orient Yearbook, 1942; Toyo Keiami Nenkan, 1943.
bu

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.99)
Northern Kuriles Fisheries. 50/ Fishing is the mest
important industry of the northern Kuriles; in fact, it is practically
the only industry. In the decade immediately preceding the war the
northern Kurile fisheries were developed commercially and in 1938 the
value of this production was almost three-fourths that of the Soviet
waters and exceeded that of the factory ships (Table 24). Fishing of
the northern Kuriles was conducted largely in the vicinity of the three
northernmost 1slands ~ Shumushu, Paramushiro and Araito. In 1938, 600
vessels were reported to be employed in this fishery; most of the vessels
were based on Hakodate, coming north for the summer season. The boats
were largely trawlers and small motorized salmon drift-netters but there
were also a considerable mumber of unmotorized hand-line cod-fishing
craft and a few amall crab-netters and boats for line trawling of cod.
These boats had shore bases within the area for the period of summer
operation; these places also served as processing centers. In l935 there
were 34 fishing bases in the northern Kuriles, the most important being
located at Suribachi Bay, Murakami Bey, Kashiwabara Bay and Kataoka Bay. 51/
Salmon, crab and cod were the basis of the northern Kurile fish-
ery, salmon being the mainstay (Table 29). Salmon were caught by trawling
and by nets placed in rivers and along the shores; trawling was particu-
lerly effective as it was possible to intercept schools of fish heading
50 The southern Kuriles are regarded for most statistical purposes.as
a section of the Nemuro Branch Bureau of Hokkaido and are not included
in "the northern fisheries." For further details of the Kurile fisheries
see Military Government Handbook, Kurile Ialands, OPNAv 50 E-2,
November 1943.
51/ Since then a fishing base is reported to have been developed in
the Kakumabetsu region.
-101-
16-031 P126bu

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
29
Fisheries of Nortterm Kuriles, 1936 - 1940
Catch
Value of
Mamufactures
Salmon and
Salmon
Crab
Salmon
Salmon trout
Crab
Cod
Other
Seaweed
To tal
Canning
Canning
Other
No. (1000)
Number
Number
Number
(kan)
1000¥
1000¥
1000¥
1000
1000¥
-102~
1936
51,899
2,312,183
4,139,696
323,000
20,320
17,807
9,964
1,102
5,232
1,509
1937
84,365
3,023.006
3,429,846
579,262
33.650
25,483
12,199
2,207
9,111
1,966
1938
82,689
3,606,485
3,263,059
997,619
22,288
30,663
12,268
2,526
13,356
2,513
1939
130,960
4,227,393
3,628,209
7,184,746
740
42,920
11,013
2,805
23,412
5,689
1940
31,772
2,959,210
4,245,833
6,027,689
28,844
25,315
8,777
1,998
10,287
4,252
 As given in source.
Source:
Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
16-031 P127
Du

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
toward the spawning rivers which flow into the Akhotsk Sea. About
60 percent of the salmon from this fishery is reported to have been
canned in prewar years; the value figures (Table 29) suggest, however,
that from 1938 on more was salted than canned. The principal crab area
was along the western shore of Parammshiro. In 1938 16 vessels and 4
crab canneries were reported. Cod was caught in fairly deep water off
the western coast of Paramushiro and Shimushu from April until September.
In 1938 2, 200 persons were engaged in catching and drying cod in the
northern Kuriles.
Fishing in Outlying Colonial Waters. Fishing in
the waters of Korea, Formosa, Kwantung Leased Territory and the South
Sea Mandated Islands, independent of operations in these waters by
locally based fishermen, accounted for 57,500 metric tons in 1936 and
36,000 tons in 1938 (Table 30). Some of these operations were by
trawlers and drag-netters, others were by purse seining and those of the
South Seas and Formosa included bonito and tuna fishing.
Special Fisheries.
Seaweed Production. Sea plants attain a remarkable
importance in the fisheries of Japan. Numerous species were taken for
widely different uses: some were dried and used as food, others pro-
cessed to yield iodine, potassium or other chemicals, agar-agar, sizing
materials and fertilizers. The total production of seaweed ranged from
389 million to 589 million tons in the period 1935 to 1940, and in 1940
when the production was 589 million tons it was valued at * 39 million
(Table 31).
-103
16-031 P128bu

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 30
Japanese Fishing in Outlying Colonial Waters, 1935 - 1939
1935
1936
1937
1938
1939
Korea
Number of boats
1,063
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.3.
Volume of catch, 1000 kan
29,393
2,705
9,711
6,277
4,718
Value of catch, 1000 yen
4,021
3,063
3,196
3,444
3,159
Formosa
Number of boats
15
15
124
26
n.a.
Volume of catch, 1000 kan
24
42
137
103
406
Value of catch, 1000 yen
26
23
126
92
n.0.
-104-
Kwantung
Number of boats
212
200
167
146
n.a.
Volume of catch, 1000 kan
1,564
2,065
1,203
1,273
1,165
Value of catch, 1000 yen
922
978
531
636
n.a.
South Sea Mandated Islands
Number of boats
n.a.
84
128
191
n.a.
Volume of catch, 1000kan
n.a.
524
1,027
966
689
Value of catch, 1000 yen
n.a.
1,831
3,350
2,340
n.a.
Total
Number of boats
1,290
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Volume of catch, 1000 kan
30,981
15,336
12,078
-9,619
7,008
Value of catch, 1000 yen
4,969
5,895
7,203
6,512
n.a.
n.a.-- Not available
16-031 P129
Source: Compiled from official Japanese statistics from several sources.
bu

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 31
Seaweed Production, 1935-40 
Quantity
Value
1000 kan
1000 tons
1000
1935
132,141
496
10,173
1936
128,685
483
12,308
1937
153,725
576
14,927
1938
109,824
403
14,332
1939
103,660
389
27,304
1940
157,085
589
38,884
Source: Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
 It is not clear from the source whether this includes
production of Porphyra raised by culture and the production
of seaweed in the Northern Kuriles or only the amount
taken in the coastal fisheries of Japen proper. About
8 - 9 million kan was produced annually by culture and
20 - 30 thousand kan produced in the Northern Kuriles.
The three most important kinds of marine algae produced were:
(1) brown algae (Laminaria species) commonly known as "tangle"; (2) laver
or nori (Porphyra species); and (3) tengusa (Gelidium species) used for
the manufacture of agar-agar.
Laminaria. Several species of the Leminaria
gemue which grow most abundantly in the waters of the north, especially
in those of Hokkaido and Karafuto, were collected and processed in
several ways. Nemuro in Hokkaido was the center of this industry. The
chief use was as a food; under the general name of "kombu" it was of
universal use for flavoring purposes in Japanese cookery. Some of the
"tangle" was used for the production of iodine and potassium. Although
most of it was consumed domestically some is normally exported, chiefly
to China.
-105-
18-031 P130 bu

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.98)
Laver or nori (also called ama-nori and
asakusa-nori), of which Porphyra tenera is the leading species, was
not only collected but also cultivated in numerous places. It was pro-
duced chiefly along the east coast of Honshu and along the shores of
the Inland Sea. Japanese statistics for l936 claimed a culture area of
50 million square meters. Tields in recent years have been 30.8 to 35.0
million kilograms (Table 15). The largest production was in the waters
of Tokyo Bay; Tokyo Prefecture and the neighboring prefectures of
Kanagawa and Chiba are estimated to have produced about 70 percent of
the total. Aichi, Mie and Hiroshime prefectures ranked next with Yama-
guchi, Kumamoto, Fukmoka and Shismoka prefectures producing smaller
amounts.
Shallow bays and inlets where the water is somewhat brackish and
where the plants are partially out of water at low tide were preferred
for cultivation. Bundles of bamboo brush on which spores were collected
were placed in the sea in September and later the bunches were trans-
ferred to nearby rearing sites. The gathering of "leaves" began in
December and continued through the following March, in many cases the
collection being carried on by farmers as a winter season side-line. The
weeds were washed, cut into shreds and then dried in sheets on reed
screens. Sun drying was commonly employed although drying rooms with
artificial heat were used in some places. Dried laver, used as a food,
was simply roasted or was further processed to give it special flavor.
-106
16-031 P131 bu

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
Gelidium. Various species of Gelidium,
found along the entire Japanese coast, were used in the manufacture of
agar-agar (see page l45). The largest quantities are produced in the
shallow weters of the east coast of the warm current region (Hagano,
Osaka, Hyogo, Kyoto, Gifu, Yamanshi, Shizuoka, Wakangama and Tokyo
prefectures), but agar-agar was also made in Karafuto from a different
raw material.
Others. Of the mmerous other seaweeds
produced in lesser quantities than the three described above, one was
perhaps more important - funori (Gloiopeltis species) which was used
as sizing for textiles. The plant grows naturally along much of the
Japanese coast, but was also cultivated in some localities by placing
rocks in the sea to which the algae attached itself. The Matsuurbi
district of Nagasaki Prefecture and Aomori, Ibaraki and Wakayana pre-
fectures are reported to have produced considerable quantities.
Whaling. Whales were of importance to Japan
chiefly in providing oil (for domestic consumption and export), but
also furnished bone-meal fertilizer and human food. In l939 the value
of Japanese whaling was $ 26,777,000 (Table 32), a sizeable item in
the marine products industry.
In the years preceding the war Japan's whaling activities in-
creased greatly; in 1930-31 Japan caught 2.7 percent of the whales
taken in the world's commercial whaling operations and produced
-107-
16-031 P132 bu

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.98)
TAHLE
32
Japanese Whaling Operations
Year
Japan Proper
Colonial Waters
No. of whales
Value
No. of whales
Value
csught
( 1000)
caught
(1000)
1934
1,156
1,142
202
434
1935
1,356
1,991
123
430
1936
1,598
2,467
173
647
1937
1.641
2,578
173
754
1938
1,814
3,397
236
895
1939
1,790
3,873
189
1,118
1940
2,153
5,068
145
1,047
Antarctic Ccean
Year 
Mother
Tender
Crows
No. of whales Value of Mamufacture
Ships
Ships
caught
(1000)
1934
b
1935
1
3
213
213
487
1936
1
5
313
639
2,263
b
1937
2
13
766
1,965
8,727
b
1938
4
31
1,796
5,565
14,456
1939
6
49
2,794
7,540
21,786
1940
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Source: Official Japanese statistics from several sources. 1940 figures
from Toyo Keizai Kenkan, 1943.
n.a. - not available.
a
Year ending March 3lst.
6
Estimate.
-108-
1B-031 P133 Du

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
0.5 percent of the world's whale oil; in 1937-38 Japan caught 13.8
percent of the total world's production and produced ll.6 percent of
the oil (Table 33).
Japanese whaling is carried on in two areas: Antarctic waters
and the Japanese home and nearby colonial waters. The Antarctic opera-
tions are the more productive, accounting in 1937-38 for more than 5,500
whales and more than 64,000 metric tons of oil as compared with less than
2,000 whales and 5, 500 tons of oil from the operations in home and
colonial waters. (Table 34).
Antarctic Operations. Japan's entry into
Antarctic whaling dates from 1934-35 when a ship purchased in Norway
with a crew including Norwegians was licensed to operate by the Japanese
government. By the 1938-39 season six ships entirely manned by Japanese
were operating. All of these were floating factories averaging l6,000 -
17,000 tons. Working from these mother ships were powerful catcher
boats averaging ahout 350 tons equipped with harpoon guns. In 1938-39
the catcher boats numbered 49, an average of eight for each of the
mother ships.
Three companies were engaged in the Japanese Antarctic whaling
in 1938-39; the Nippon Suisan K. K. with three ships, the Taiyo Hogei
K. K. with two, and the Kyokuyo Hogei K. K. with one (Table 35).
-109-
18-031 P134 bu

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
33
Japanese Whaling Compared to World's Total, 1930-31 to 1937-38
Number of Whales
All countries
Japan
Japanese Percent
all areas
of total
1930-31
42,874
1,147
2.7
1931-32
12,797
1.036
8.1
1932-33
28,668
1,122
3.9
1933-34
32,167
1,436
4.5
1934-35
39,254
2,000
5.1
1935-36
44,782
2,479
5.5
1936-37
51,256
4,025
7.9
1937-38
54,664
7,552
13.8
Oil Production
(barrels) b
1930-31
3,686,976
16,274
0.5
1931-32
915,842
20,230
2.2
1932-33
2,596,778
21,698
0.8
1933-34
2,573,155
22,766
0.9
1934-35
2,691,283
42,133
1.6
1935-36
2,871,117
74,389
2.6
1936-37
3,210,671
189,012
5.9
1937-38
3,635,010
422,036
11.6
Source: International Whaling Statistics, 1I, Oalo, 1939.
a A Japanese source gives slightly different figures for these -
5.7 1n 1936-37 and 12.1% in 1937-38, but the same percentages of
the oil production as given here.
b/ A barrel equals 1/6 ton.
-110-
18-031 P135 Da

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 34
Japanese Whaling in 1937-38 and Sumer of 1938 
Antarctic
Coast of Japan
Total
and Korea
Species of whales caught:
Blue
2,397
4
2,401
Fin
2,709
293
3,002
Humpback
475
60
535
Soi
553
553
Sperm
1
785
786
Others
.275
b
275
5,582 
To tal
1.970
7,552
O11 Production (barrels)/ 338,683 d/
33,353
422,036
Shore stations
21
21
Floating factories
4
4
Catcher boats
30
25
55
Source: International Whaling Statistics, X1II. Oslo, 1939.
/ These figures differ slightly from the official Japanese
figures (Table 32).
Two right whales and different kinds of small whales.
c/ A barrel equals 1/6 ton.
a This is the last year for which full data are available.
According to Japanese sources 1938-39 Antarctic production
amounted to 7,540 whales and 483,774 barrels of oil.
-111-
16-031 P136 DU

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.97)
TABLE 35
Ships Engaged in Japanese Antarctic Whaling, 1938-39
Moating factory
Number of
Company Ouming
phipe
Tonnage
Catcher Boats
ship 
Tonan Maru
9.966
5
Nippon Suisan K. I.
Dai Ni Tonan Maru
19,425
8
Mippon Suisan K. K.
Dai San Tonan Maru
19,209
8
Hippon Suisan X. K.
Nisshin Maru
16,764
9
Taiyo Hogei I. I.
Dai N1 Nisshin Maru
17,553
9
Taiyo Hogei Y. K.
Kyokuyo Maru
17,548
9
Xyokuyo Hogei K. K.
48
b
Source: Japan's Fishery Industries, 1939 (Special issue of Japan
Times and Mail, 1939).
a/ A fourth mother-ship was to be added to the fleet of Nippon
Suisan K. K. for the 1939-40 season; it was to bave a tonnage of
19,400.
b/ Official Japanese statistics report 49 catcher boats.
Most of the Antarctic whale oil was erported. In 1938-39 of
the 80,600 tons (483,800 barrels). 70,000 tons were exported leaving
only 10,600 tons for use in Japan.
The Japanese operations in the Antarctic were carried on un-
impeded by international megulations since Japan has refused to be a
party to the international whaling conventions. Other nations opere-
ting in Antarctic waters 52/ have restricted whaling operations by
agreement, imposing a season of whaling and other restrictions. 53/
Japanese whaling ships are licensed and the seasons and areas are
established by the Japanese government. The seasons so established
are, however, longer than those established under the international
52 In 1937-38 these nations were: the United States, Great Britain,
Norway, Germany, Union of South Africa, Argentina, Australia, Iceland
and New Zealand.
53/ International whaling in the Antarctic has been restricted since
the 1932-33 eason. See pages 191 - 192.
-112-
16-031 P137 bu

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
regulations and the areas are larger. In 1937-38 the international
convention limited the season south of 40º s. latitude to the period
between December 8th and March 15th whereas in that year Japan started
whaling on November lst and contimued until March 26th.
Coastal and Colonial Whaling. Several kinds
of whales including the sperm, sei, fin and humpback were taken in
waters bordering Japan (including the Kuriles) and its colonial possess-
ions, chiefly Korea. The principal whaling grounds were off the north-
eastern coast of Honshu and the southern Kuriles where they are taken
during the summer months, but other arees including southern Japan
proper, Korea, Formosa and the Bonins are reported to have engaged in
whaling.
Table 36 gives the catch by type for 1937 and 1938. Production
of oil in the period preceding the war amounted to about 6,000 - 8,000
tons, most of which was used domestically.
Whaling boats in home and colonial waters are restricted to 30
and the catches are taken only by licensed persons. The vessels were
modern whalers of the Norwegian type, most of them less than l20 tons.
Four companies operated in the coastal fisheries of home and
colonial waters in l938; their relative importance is shown in Table
37.
-113
10-031 P138 bu

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
36
Japanese Coastal Whaling. 1937 and 1938
1937
1938
Number
Value
Number
Value
(1000)
( 1000)
Whales Caught in Home Waters
Sperm
1,208
1,950
1,058
1,974
Sei
445
840
551
1,069
Fin
92
332
125
556
Humpback
57
205
49
220
Blue
7
49
5
40
Right
5
21
2
13
Total
1,814
3,397
1,790
3,872
Whales Caught in Colonial
Waters
Fin
210
807
170
1,046
Humpback
16
44
18
71
Blue
5
28
Sperm
5
15
Sei
1
Total
236
895
189
1,118
Source:
Far East Yearbook, 1940.
-114-
16-031 P139 bu

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 37
Japanese Coastal Whaling Operations, 1938
Company
Number of Vessels
Number of Basesa
Nippon Suisan K. K.
19
24
Hayashikane and Co. Ltd.
4
8
Ayukawa Wheling Co.
1
3
Enyo Whaling Co.
1
4
25
39
Source: Japan Fisheries Industry, 1939 (Special issue of Japan
Times and Mail, 1939).
a The number of bases listed is rather misleading because ll of them
were used by two companies, so that the number of separate bases is
only 28. Of these 17 were in Japan proper; 5 in the Kuriles; 4 in
Korea; and one each in Formosa and Kwantung. The International Whaling
Statistics report only 21 bases for this year (Table 34).
Sea Otters and Fur Seals. Sea otters and fur seals are
marine animals of the North Pacific valuable for their fur. Normally the
Japanese took a small annual catch of each.
Sea otters occur in the Kurile Islands as well
as in certain areas of Soviet and American territory. 54/ They are coastel
in habit and occur in small groups, in contrast to fur seals which have
a large cruising radius and at breeding periods gather in large herds.
The Japenese resources, estimated at about 2,500 animals, are considerably
larger than that of Russia or the United States and are protected by law
(Sea Otter Protection Law of 191l). The mumber of animals caught and killed
each year, regulated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, was
limited according to a policy of conservation and propagation. The annual
slaughter was reported as about one hundred animals. 55/
54 They frequent Soviet areas of Kamchatka and the Commander Islands and
American territory of the Aleutians and Alaska.
55/ Japen's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of Japan Times and
Mail, 1939).
-115
16-0 31 P140 bu

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.98)
Fur seels remain during the summer breeding
season in a few locations in high latitudes where it is cool and very
foggy. In late fall they migrate long distances southward having a
cruising radius of 1, 500 - 2,000 miles. The only breeding place in
Japanese territory is small Robben Island (also kmown as Seal Island)
off the coast of Karafuto. Formerly the Kurile Islands were the habitat .
of many seals but these were slaughtered off many years ago. The south-
ward migrations which begin in late fall come as far south as Chosi in
the Pacific and as far as Gensan Bay (Korea) and Utsuryoto Island in the
Sea of Japan. 56/ From 1911 until 1941 this "fishery" was regulated
by an international agreement (see pages 193-194). A report in 1941
indicated that pelagic sealing had been revived along the Pacific coast
of northern Japan (Aomori, Miyagi, Fukushima and Ibaraki prefectures).
Pearl Culture. The cultivation of pearls is one
of the most spectacular and widely-publicized of Japan's aquatic indus-
tries though it is of relatively minor importance. The industry did;
however, provide an anmual production of pearls and pearlshell valted
at more than 2 million yen and is of importance in the export trade.
Statistics from various sources differ considerably as to the
mumber and size of farms and the quantity of production. The publica-
tion Japan's Fisheries Industry l939 in one article gives the mumber of
farms as 12 (including one in the South Seas) with an area of 41,000
56 Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of Japan Times and
Ma11,1939).
-116-
10-031 P141 bu

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
acres producing 5 million pearl oysters. yet in another article refers
to 285 places engaged in pearl culture, using 13,000 acres and employing
36,216,000 mother shel1. 57/
The industry in Japan proper centers chiefly in the Inland Sea and
on inlets of the ocean coasts of southern prefectures. Principal farms
were situated on Omura Bay, Nagasaki Prefecture; along the coast of Saga
Prefecture; in Heijo, Ago, Kata, Matoya and Mikimoto bays of Mie Pre-
fecture; and Nagao Bay of Ishikawa Prefecture.
Pearl culture has two phases: the rearing of the pearl oyster
(akuyu-gai) spats; and the rearing of the shell after the insertion of
the mucleus. Formerly both phases were conducted by every party but in
recent years some pearl culturists purchased mother shells ready for
insertion of muclei. Spats were collected by placing stones in wire
baskets along the coast during the laying season, (June and July).
The stones with spats were shifted to suitable shallow water sites and
after three years rearing were picked up by dredgers or diving girls.
Pearl culturists purchased these mother shells, inserted the nuclei and
fer several years the shells were hung in the sea in fine wire baskets
suspended from rafts. They were periodically inspected and tended until
maturity when they were collected and opened. 58/ About 60 percent of
the treated oysters produced pearls of which only a amall percentage
were of commercial quality. Pearl shell was a by-product of the industry.
57 The first set of figures given here mey refer to Mikimoto holdings,
including the farm in the South Sea Mandated Islands.
58 The entire process from spats to maturity usually required 6 to 7
years.
-117-
16-031 P142 bu

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.95)
Other Products. Shells for buttons and coral are
two minor marine products which have been of value in Japanese fisheries.
Much of. the production of both button shell and coral, bowever, was not
in Japan proper but outlying areas.
-118
16-031 P143 b0

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.99)
III PROCESSING OF FISHERY PRODUCTS
General
Production. The greater part of the fish caught for home con-
sumption was eaten fresh, for no village or town in Japan is so far
from the sea that it cannot be supplied with fairly fresh fish. Improved
refrigeration made it possible is greatly extend the range of fisheries
which could supply truly fresh fish to the large urban markets. Con-
siderable amounts, however, were processed for both domestic consumption
and export.
No statistics are available which indicate the percentage of the
total catch which was processed, but it is estimated that approximately
one-fourth of the fish landed in Japan proper was processed for food. 59/
The volume of the manufactured fishery food products averaged about
525,000 tons in the period 1935 - 1939.
Table 38 summarizes for recent years the quantity and value of
the various groups of mamufactured fishery products and Table 39 the value
of prodessed products by districts. Table 40 gives the value of the
various mamufactured food products as compiled by he Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forestry and Table 4l lists the processing methods for some
of the leading marine products.
59 This estimate is based on the knowledge that in prewar years about
a third of the catch was processed into non-edible products (fish meal
and oil) and an estimate that 60 - 65 percent of that remaining was
consumed fresh.
-119-
1A-031 P144 bu

=== Page 288 === (confidence 1.00)
TABLE
38
Manufactured Fishery Froducts of Jepan
(Quantity in 1000 kan; Value in 1000 yen)
Total
Food Products
Fertilizer
Fish Oils
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
1935
175,540
119,240
137,472
99,866
28,552
16,596
8,793
190
723
1936
215,861
132,637
156,144
120,298
37,474
30,079
21,527
190
716
1937
214,871
142,956
163,024
88,985
33,115
24,437
18,002
173
730
1938
241,884
164,363
199,097
64,050
28,990
20,429
13,139
139
658
1939
391,048
140,065
309,811
79,169
55,744
19,854
24,378
174
1,115
1940
445,769
n.a.
369,472
n.a.
58,208
n.a.
16,057
n.a.
2,033
-120-
n.a. - not available
Source:
Statistical Abstract of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:
Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
a
Agar-agar not included.
Sukifunori or dried Gloiopeltis furcata.
Seaweed used for food is included under
food products.
lti
bu

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
TARLE
39
Hokkaido
￥63,625,600
Kyo to
2,229,284
Aomori
5,791,336
Osaka
3,543,405
Iwate
6,647,940
Hyogo
3,336,651
Miyagi
14,288,929
Nara
38,276
Akita
506,598
Wakayama
2,646.509
Yamagata
114,856
Tottori
643,481
Fukushima
3,133,734
Shimane
2,193,293
Ibaraki
9,164,063
Okayama
556,105
Tochigi
105,490
Hiroshima
3,405,571
Gumma
40,110
Yamaguchi
4,596,097
Saitama
1,760
Tokushima
1,762,941
Chiba
13,454,803
Kagawa
934,449
Tokyo
12,428,381
Ehime
5,111,209
Kanagawa
2,789,864
Kochi
2,380,099
Niigata
797,378
Fukuoka
3,663,323
Toyama
2,735,894
Saga
1,087,258
Ishikawa
1,510,616
Nagasaki
6,842,472
Fukui
1,119,349
Kumamo to
1,710,143
Yamanashi
2,292
Oita
1,880,572
Nagano
130,586
Miyazaki
1,197,717
Gifu
50,489
Kagoshima
4,957,100
Shizuoka
12,233,923
Okinawa
1,076,545
Aichi
5,058,191
Mie
4,282,342
215,861,182
Total
Shiga
54,158
Source:
Nippon Su1san Nempô, 1938
a
This is slightly higher than the total given in Table 38.
-121-
16-031 P146 bu

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
40
Value of Manufectured Fishery Products For Food
(1,000 yen)
Salted
Boiled
Salt
Total
Fushi
Dried
and Dried
and Dried
Cured
Smoked
Miscellaneous
b
1935
137,472
14,314
22,306
10,040
22,547
11,859
289
56,117
1936
156,144
17,525
27,264
10,527
23,469
14,559
402
62,398
1937
163,024
16,948
27,124
10,103
21,999
19,313
438
67,098
1938
199,097
17,251
36,103
13,028
28,744
30,073
614
73,282
1939
309,811
29,477
69,421
20,656
48,852
45,635
718
95,052
1940
369,472
35,069
80,417
29,738
63,840
27,837
730
131,841
-122-
Source:
Statistical Abstract of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry:
Toyo Keizai Nenkan, 1943.
a
Fish meat steamed and dried.
b
Includes fish boiled down in soy, dried seaweed, etc.
16-031 P147
bu

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 41
Methods of Processing Used for Some Important Marine Products
sardine
For food: drying, boiling and drying.
salting, salting and drying, canning.
Other: processing into meal and oil.
salmon
salting (chiefly chum salmon), drying,
canning, freezing, moking.
cod
salting, salting and drying, drying,
amoking, canning (boiled codfish and
smoked codfish in oil).
buri (yellowtail)
salting.
mackeral
salting, salting and drying, drying
(steaming and drying).
tuna
drying (steaming and drying), canning.
bonito
drying (chiefly for katsuobushi but also
for other products).
crab
canning.
swordfish
freezing.
abalone
drying, canning.
scallops
freezing, drying.
cuttlefish
drying.
seaweed
drying.
-123-
L8-031 P148 Du

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.99)
Persons Employed. Official figures show 207,536 employees and
60,452 employers engaged in processing of marine products in 1940 in
Japan. Approximately half of these were employed but part-time in this
work (Table 42). The largest mumber of these were fishermen who also
angaged in simple processing - the drying or salting of fish and the
drying of seaweed.
TABLE 42
Persons Engaged in Processing Marine Products, 1936 - 1940
Imployers
Employees
Male
Female
Total
Principal Occupation
1936
24,924
53,658
52,018
105,676
1957
24,441
54,965
54.263
109,228
1938
24.375
52,009
49,010
101,019
1939
24,374
50,867
49,771
100,638
1940
26,124
50,636
54.914
105,520
Subsidiary Occupation
1936
40,294
36,908
69,501
106,409
1937
36,863
35,175
65,607
100,782
1938
36,953
34,356
65,997
100.353
1939
35,580
32,158
64,701
96,859
1940
34,328
32,662
69,354
102,016
Source: Toyo Keizai, Nenkan, 1943.
Although breakdown by type of processing is not available, one
source gives the mumber of persons in Japan proper working in canneries
(all types, but fish canning is a principal type of canning in Japan)
as 20, 700 in 1938 and the mumber producing aquatic products as 17, 400.
-124-
10-031 P140 DU

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
These figures probably cover those working in large units but not the
large number of small-scale processors. Table 43 summarizes the
data available concerning the factory operations.
TABLE 43
Processing of Fishery Products in Factories, 1938
Production of
Canneries
Aquatic Products
Number of factories
642
2,008
Number of operatives
20,700
17,400
Production
Total, million yen
105
55
Per factory, thousand yen
164
27
Per operative, yen
5,720
3,160
Working hours, million
59.1
36.0
Wages, million yen
5.6
4.5
Raw material consumed,
million yen
151.3
34.7
Source: Orient Yearbook, 1942.
a/ Products of fish and shellfish canning were according
to the same source valued at 38 million yen in this year -
more than one-third of the total. Other sources give a
much higher production figure for canned fishery products
(Table 46).
Drying, Salting and Smoking
About 65 percent of the value of fishery products processed
for food was dried, salted or smoked fish (Table 40). Drying, salting
and, to a lesser degree, smoking are important in Japan; together with
fresh fish, the products processed in these ways formed the bulk of
the marine products consumed domestically. Although in the large cities,
especially among higher income groups, frozen and canned fish had be-
come familiar items, in the villeges and towns and among the masses
-125-
18-031 P150 bu

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
in the cities dried and salted fish prevailed and the traditional
Japanese cuisine rested upon these products and fresh fish.
Drying included several different techniques: plain drying.
boiling and drying, and the steaming and drying of fish meat ("fushi").
Some of the dried fish was flavored before being marketed. These
drying methods were used for numerous species including sardines, cod,
mackerel, tuna and bonito, cuttlefish and abalone and other shellfish.
The Japanese production of salted fish is classified as "salt-
cured" and as "salted and dried." Selting curing was used for malmon,
trout, sardines, cod, yellowtail, mackerel and other species. A com-
bination of salting and drying was also in common use, especially for
sardines, mackerel and cod.
Smoking of fish was less common than drying and salting, but
was locally important. In a district near Otaru, Hokkaido, for example,
salmon was smoked in considerable quantities.
These methods of processing were widespread throughout Japan -
fron Hokkaido to southernmost Kyushu. Most of the processing was done
by those engaged in fishing whether large companies or individuals.
In the Soviet waters, Nichiro Gyogyo K. K. salt cured salmon, but
thousands of small fishermen who worked the coastal waters also salted
and dried fish. The "factory" in some cases was no more than the beach
where fish were laid out to dry; sun-drying was characteristic of the
smaller fishing villages throughout Japan.
-126
16-031 P151 bu

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
Preezing
Production of frozen fish which started in the late 1920's has
increased greatly in recent years. But even though Japen's freesing,
cold storage and refrigerating industry was developed chiefly to be
used for fish and shellfish, freezing was still a small industry.
According to one source about 60, 000 tons of fish were frozen annually --
only about one percent of the total catch. 60/
In l933 Japan proper is reported to have had 88 freezing plants
with a total daily capacity of 860.5 tons (Table 44). Of these, 59 used
air (ordinary sharp freezers) and 29 used brine in one manner or another.
In addition to these freezing plants in Japan proper, there were four in
Kamchatka (plants of Nichiro Gyogyo X. K.) and eighteen on fishing
vessels in l935. Some of these vessels (chiefly trawlers although
several "freezing tender ships" of 300 - 1.000 tons) froze fish during
the summer months and then docked at Tokyo or other large ports to serve
as cold storage depots during the winter months. The total number of
freezing plants as of the prewar period may be placed at more than 100
but capacity figures are not available for later than 1933-34 (Table 44).
Canning
Canning was an important method of processing for the export
market, but only amall amounts of canned fish entered into domestic
consumption. It wss developed as a means of obtaining foreign exchange
60 Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of Japan Times and
Mai1, 1939).
-127-
16-03r P152 bu

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
44
Freezing Plants and Capacities
1933-34
1935-
Japan Proper
Number of plants
88
Capacity (tons)
860.5
Kamcbatka
Number of plants
2
4
Capacity (tons)
30
40
On vessels
Number of plants
15
18
Capacity (tons)
45
30
Total
Number of plants
103
Capacity (tons)
935.5
Source: Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue
of Japan Times and Mail, 1939).
-128-
r6-03r P153 bu

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
particularly to enable the purchase of industrial raw materials abroad.
Bucause of its commercial importance and large-scale production methods
far more information is available concerning the canning of fish than
concerning the other processing methods. It should be kept in mind there-
fore, that despite the details presented concerning canning it is not a
leading processing method for the domestic market.
In prewar years Japan produced 5 to 7.7 million cases 61/ of canned
marine products valued at 100 - 125 million yen. Approximately 70 percent
of this production was for export markets 62/. Salmon. sardines, crab,
tuna, mackerel and bonito constituted the bulk of the pack although lesser
quantities of herring, shellfish, crustaceans, fish paste and even whale-
meat were canned (Table 46).
The Japanese fish canning industry was distributed as follows: 53/
Salmon: Kamchatka, floating canneries, the Kuriles, Hokiaido
and northern Honshu.
Crab:
oating cannerles (chiefly off Kamchatka) and land
canneries in Kamchatka.
64/
Sardine:
Chiefly southern Hokkaido and Aomori Prefecture.
Tuna:
Chiefly Shisuoka, Kanagawa, Chiba and Miyagi prefectures.
61 A case 1s equal to 46 pounds.
62/ Various sources give figures ranging from 60 - 80 percent. Some
canned fish exported directly from floating canneries does not enter
into the erport statistics but are reported as included in Table 45,
which shows that in the period 1930 - 1937 the percentage exported
varied from 60 to 83 percent.
63/ Further details are given in the following sections which discuss
the canning by types.
64/ Also Korea.
-129
18-031 P154 bu

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
45
Production and Export of Canned Marine Produds
Production
Exports
Percentage
(cases)b
(cases)b/
Exported
1930
2,779,266
1,657,342
60
1931
2,137,111
1,307,097
61
1932
2,664,401
1,939,301
73
1933
3,389,087
2,821,076
83
1934
4,297,113
2,914,901
68
1935
4,921,868
3,158,915
64
1936
5,486,160
3,949,725
71
1937
7,735,009
5,103,998
66
1938
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
1939
6,680,613
n.a.
n.a.
Source: Japan's Canning Industry Since 1930. 1938.
Figure for 1939 from consular report.
n.a.  not available.
a
Includes Japan proper, Karafuto, Korea, Kamchatka and
floating canneries. Korean production amounted to about
150,000 - 200,000 cases in the per1od 1933 - 1936.
b/
Cases of 48 pounds.
-130-
18.031' P155 bu

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
46
Japanese Froduction of Canned Mariue Products
1937
19:59
COC
casos
1.,000 
1,000 caees
1,C0O¥
Salmon
2,524
50,953
2,438
58,663
Crab
508
24,423
599
30,140
Tuna
660
8,646
378
5,275
Mackerel
550
4,198
205
1,812
Bonito
235
2,280
225
2,250
Sardine
2,067
13,463
1,550
10,357
Whalemeat
40
554
Scallop
32
672
28
644
Clem
30
169
344
2,275
Cyster
3
24
3
25
Abalone
43
774
42
819
Shrimp
5
130
7
210
Eel
12
265
23
667
Squid
15
128
13
117
Octopus
17
140
15
165
Fish and other marine
paste
75
662
19
152
Herring
a
a
95
950
Other
909
11,107
75
10,117
To tal
7,735
118,034
6,681
125,192
Source: Consular Report, "Production of Canned Marine Products in Japen
Proper," Tokyo, May 8, 1940.
Note: 1938 figures not aveilable.
Not reported separately.
-131-
16 031 P168 bu

=== Page 300 === (confidence 1.00)
Salmon Canning. About one-third of the Japanese salmon catch is
canned to provide an annual pack of more than two million cases during
the years 1934 - 1939 (Table 47 and AppendixA). This is almost one-
fourth of the world's commercial salmon pack.
Approximately one-half of the salmon pack was from canneries in
the Soviet area and about 12 - 15 percent from floating canneries. The
rest was divided among plants in the Kuriles, Hokkaido, Karafuto and
northern Honshu (Table 47). The location of canneries operating in the
Russian area and the northern Kuriles and of floating canneries is shown
in Figure 8. Hokkaido plants are reported in Hakodate, Nemuro and
Kitami. On Honshu the largest concentration of salmon canning plants was
in the area around the city of Aomori on the Gulf of Mutsu. Table 47
shows a total of 94 plants operating in 1936; in 1938, 99 were operating. 65/
TABLE 47
Japanese Canned Salmon Pack, 1936
Number of Canneries
Production
Operated
(cases)
Soviet Waters
(Kamchatka and Okhotsk)
22
1,094,797
Floating Canneries
3
281,540
Kerafuto
9
19,046
Kuriles:
Northern Kuriles
11
529,709
Etorofu
7
77,338
Japen proper
Hokkaido
24
127,446
Tohoku (northern Honshu)
18
163,017
Total
94
2,292,893
Source: "The Fishing Industry of Japan," Office of Strategic
Services, June 1942.
65 Appendix ▲ gives the details of the 1936 production, i.e. outrut by
factories and the breakdown by type over a period of years.
-132-
16 031 P157 bu

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
The largeat part of the Japanese salmon pack wes pink salmon;
of the 1940 production 61 percent was of this species. Red salmon con-
stituted the second largest pack and silvers, chum and kings made up the
remaining portion (Appendix A).
The season of salmon packinE was summer varying somewhat, however,
with the species and the locality. In general the season for pink salmon
was July and August with the peak in late July; for red salmon mid-June
to mid-August with the peak the last week of June in east rn Kamchatka
and the last week in July in western Kamchatka; for silver salmon irom
early August to mid-September with the peak in late August; and for
chum (ketas) the months of July and August with the peak in lete July.
The packing of salmon was as modern well-equipped industry. The
fins and heads of the fish were cut off by machines and the gutting and
the cutting into piecee for cans were also done mechanically. The pieces
of.fish were then packed into cans, salt added, and after sealing, the
filled cans were heated. Later they were cooled and packed. Much of
the canning process was done autcmatically with conveyor belts, regulated
chargers and other modern equilment.
Crab Canning. The total annual production of canned crab in the
years immediately before the war reached about 500, 000 - 600,000 cases
valued at * 24 - 30 million (Tables 48 and 49 and Appendix A). 66/
66 During the war peri u production of canned crab has been greatly
curtailed. As early as 1939 plans were made to reduce the output
(because of the ban on import by foreien countries) and for the
1940-4l season floating canneries were fnstructed by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry to cut production by 40 percent and the
Association of Canned Crab Manufacturers on Land planned to cut 32
percent. Since 1942 the commandeering of vessels has reduced if not
entirely eliminated this production.
-133
16 031 P156 bu

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
This included tre pack of several species, but almost 90 percent of
the pack was tarabe or king crab. 6?/ Japan's crab canneries numbered
51 in & recent year, located as follows: 27 in Hokkaido and the Kuriles,
3 in Kerafuto, 9 in Russian territory, 8 factory ships and 4 at "other
places." 68/ Locations of those in the northern area operating in 1940
are shown in Figure 8. The production by dietricts (Table 48) indicates
that sligbtly more then half of the total production in recent years was
from floating canneries and that the Kuriles, Karafuto, Eokkaido and
Kamchatka each produced approximately one-eighth of the total. 69/ Table
49 with somewhat different figures is included because it gives a further
breakdown of the production by districts and Appendix A containe more
details of past production.
Crab canning was also seasonal - from March or April to September.
The crabs were processed by first removing the back shell and then boil-
ing or steaming for about 15 or 20 minutes. Dipped in clean water to be
cooled they were then cleened and the flesh pulled from the body and
legs. The meat was classified according to quality and condition, then
packed in accordance with standards laid down by government regulations
into cans of several sises. Modern equipment characterized both the
land canneries and the factory vessels.
67 Much of the statistical information concerning the Japanese crab
pack does not distineuish between figures for all species and those for
taraba, the chief species packed. Frequently the figures are only for
the latter.
68/ In addition there were l0 crab canneries operating in Korea. Some
of the canneries can both salmon and crab and are thus counted twice in
the data given.
69/ There was considerable variation from year to year but as a
general statement this is true.
-134-
16 031 P150 bu

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
48
(Cases)
1935-1936
1936-1937
1937-1938
1938-1939
Karafuto
19,169
22,994
42,780
43,047
Hokkaido and Kuriles
Nemuro
44,011
39,940
35,577
25,680
Wakkanai
2,536
446
9,291
8,749
Esashi
2,048
3,821
Rishiri
453
5,277
Monbetsu
3,893
5,985
9,345
4,301
Abashiri
5,198
3,297
3,716
Akkeshi
3,921
2,400
Kushiro
3,093
4,637
916
Ochiishi
11,276
9,394
5,012
Kiritappu
5,838
4,116
2,358
Tokachi
200
Etorofu
7,543
5,523
2,033
432
Kita-Chishima
36,181
56,182
64,669
38,106
Shiriushi
256
Mainland of Japan
28
45
12
Korea
24
79
一
Kamchatka
7,344
49,558
53,675
31,139
Moatingcanneries
183,923
204,719
253,902
204,200
Total
336,679
409,315
483,286
365,008
Source: Consular report, "Economic and Trade Note No. 140," Tokyo,
December 19, 1939. Submitted by Donald Lemm, Assistant Trade
Commissioner.
a/ Figures reported by Hakodate office of Japan Canned Crab Assoc-
fation stated that these figures are based on calendar year but they
are thought to be based on production year. Data is probably for
king crab only.
-135-
18-031 P160 bu

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
49
Canned Taraba Crab Output, 1938
(Cases)
District
Production
Percent
Karafuto
42,780
8.17
Nemuro
42,080
8.04
Wakkanai
9,291
1.77
Monbetsu
16,873
3.22
Abashiri
5.261
1.01
Kushiro
1,687
0.32
Mutafu
4,616
0.88
Otchishi
8,972
1.71
Northern Kuriles
(Kita-Chishima)
69,453
13.27
Etorofu
2,517
0.48
Japan Proper
12
Kamchatka
55,019
10.51
264,956
50.62
Total
523,517
100.
Source: Japan's Export Tradeand Industry, published by Osaka
Mainichi, Osaka, October 25, 1939.
coast and one on the east coast of Kamchatka.
-136-
16-031 P161 bu

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.99)
Tuna Canning. A part of the tuna catch is canned; some estimates
place it as high as a quarter of the catch but others place it at about
10 percent. In 1937 the canned production was 660,000 cases and in 1939
378,000 cases (Table 46); similar fluctuations occurred in the period
1932 - 1936 and prior to 1932 production was very amall.
Tuna canning districts were mainly in Shizuoka, Miyagi, Kana-
gawa and Chiba prefectures. This is indicated by Table 50 showing the
location of the 29 canneries operating in a recent year. 70/ The plants
were in districts facing the Pacific -- conveniently situated near the
tuna fishing grounds. At least one of the largest tuna factories was
in the city of Shimizu. 71/
TABLE 50
Tuna Canneries in Japan a
Number of Canneries
Shizuoka
14
Miyagi
5
Kanagawa
43
Chiba
Ibaraki
1
Tokyo
1
Fukushima
1
29
70 Either 1937 or 1938.
71/ This plant has been reported to be producing during the war
period exclusively for the Army.
-137-
16-031 P162 bu

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
In general tuna canning was during the spring and summer months
but it was not completely confined to these seasons. In Shizuoka and
Kanagawa prefectures two canning seasons are reported: the first from
early January to late March and the second from early May until July
with June as the peak season. In Miyagi Prefecture the season was
later -- from June to August with mid-June the busiest period.
Tuna canneries, all established relatively recently, were
equipped with modern machinery - automatic cutters, automatic vacuum
sealing machines, automatic cooling apparatus, etc. The process was
similar to that used in the United States. The heads were cut off
and internal organs removed and, after washing, the tuna were steamed
for several hours. They were then cooled and bones, scales and other
inedible parts removed, leaving only the meat (about 40 percent by
weight of the fish as landed) which was cut up and packed in cans.
The meat was then classified into grades according to type of meat
(white meat made of "binnaga" tuna and light meat made of various
kinds) and type of pack (solid, standard and flake). The finished
product was inspected by the Tuna Packers' Association of Japan.
Sardine Canning. Of the total annual haul of sardines only a
small fraction (about 2 percent) was used for canning and about
80 percent of the canned product was exported. Thus although lt to
2 million cases were produced (Table 51) less than 500,000 cases
were consumed domestically. Most of the sardines canned were packed
in tomato sauce (Table 51).
-138-
16-031P163bu

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 51
1937 Production and Export of Japanese Canned Sardines
Production
Export
(Cases)
(Cases)
In tomato sauce
1,381,403
1,325,504
In oil
31,070
29,997
Natural
171,054
155,228
Peppered
128,955
110,795
Seasoned
355,000
13,715
To tal
2,067,482
1,635,239
Source: Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of
Japan Times and Mail, 1939).
Sardines were canned chiefly in southern Hokkaido and in Aomori
Prefecture. 72/ Recent data concerning the location of factories are
not available, but in 1932 there were 13 in Hokkaido, three in Aomori
Prefecture, two each in Nagasaki and Yamaguchi prefectures and one each
in Osaka and Kyoto prefectures. 73/
The sardine packing season reached its height in Hokkaido and
Aomori in November and December although starting in early September.
In Nagasaki and Yamaguchi the season was later -- December to April with
Jamuary and February as the peak months.
Shellfish Canning.
Several kinds of shellfish were canned in
Japan, but the total production was only about 180, 000 - 300,000 cases
(Tables 46 and 52) and about half of this was exported. The last two
species listed in Table 52 (sazae and akagai) were produced mainly for
domestic consumption.
72 Also in Korea; in l932 five factories were operating in Korea.
73/ Those in Osaka and Kyoto packed sardines in oil; the others in
tomato sauce.
-139-
16-031 P164 bu

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 52
Output of Canned Shellfish, 1937
(Cases)
Hotate (scallop)
32,000
Hokd
9,500
Asari (baby clam)
19,595
Hamaguri (clam)
4,609
Asari and Hamaguri (seasoned)
25,000
Kaki (oyster)
3,326
Awabi (abalone)
43,000
Sazae (Turbo species)
45,000
Akagai (Anadara inflata)
15,000
197.030
Fish Meal Production
Fish meal for fertilizer and feed 74/ were manufactured in con-
siderable quantities. Official statistics of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Forestry show annual production of fertilizer as varying from 375,000
 to 450,000 tons (Table 53). Other sources place the production for fer-
tilizer and feed at 600,000 tons (Table 54). Sardines, herring and cod-
fish supply the largest part of the production; in l937 sardines accounted
for more than two-thirds of the total. Normally a sizeable part of the
herring and sardine catches entered directly into this production although
some of the fertilizer was made from fish scrap. During the war period
production has dropped with the diversion of these products to food uses;
1942-43 production of fertilizer has been estimated at 200,000 metric tons.
74
Small amounts are used for human food.
-140-
18-031 P165 bu

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 53
Fish Fertilizer Production
(Quantity in 1000 kan; value in 1000 yen)
1934
1935
1936
1937
1938
Total
Quantity
113,071
99,866
120,298
88,985
64,050
Value
28,913
28,552
37,474
33,115
28,990
Herring cake, value
3,319
1,679
1,024
973
960
Sardine cake, value
19,536
18,157
26,715
21,545
18,814
Fish bone cake, value
969
945
1,220
1,688
2,710
Sardine dried, value
1,006
1,194
857
359
430
Herrin& dried, value
2,163
1,688
1,893
1,370
737
Others, value
1,917
4,836
5,764
7,178
5,337
TAELE 54
Production of Fish Meal, 1937 
(metric tons)
Sardine
430,127
Herring
27,807
Codfish
10,286
Whale
8,509
Flatfish
3,225
Others
120,340
Total
600,294
Source: Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue
of Japan Times and Mail, 1939). Data compiled by the
Fish Meal Producers and Exporters Association of Japan.
These figures are thought to include only Japan proper.
-141-
16-031 P166 bu

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.99)
Two processes were used in making fish meal in Japan: sun-drying
and machine mamufacture. Although some sources give the impression that
sun-drying was largely a method of the past, as late as 1939 it was
reported that 90 percent of the total production was sun dried. 75/ In
this method of production the raw materials were cooked and sterilised,
fat and oil extracted by hand presses, and the resulting material was
then sun-dried and ground. This type of mamufacturing was done in mall
units; it was really a household industry.
In contrast, in the modern method the materials were handled by
machine from start to finish. The continuous machine producer consisted
of a cooker, a screw press (for the removal of water and fat), a dryer
equipped with a steam jacket, a grinder and a collector, all of which
worked in combination. A few of the large plants recently installed are
reported to be capable of processing a thousand pounds of raw material
daily. Most fish meal plants of Japan had much lower capacities. 76/
Capacity production was reached only at times when the catches of sardines
and other fish were abundant.
In 1936 there were reported to be 65 plants producing fish meal
including plants in Karafuto, Korea and Soviet territory. 77/ Within
Japan proper the leading centers for fish meal production were Hakodate,
75 The Japan Trade Guide, 1940. This figure may be too high, but large
amounts are still processed by sun-drying.
76/ According to the Japan Trade Guide, 1940 the average capacity of
plants producing machine-made meal is about 10 - 20 tons daily.
77/ According to another source in 1937 Korea alone had more than 144
sardine pressing plants producing oil and meal. Many of these, however,
were very small.
-142-
16-031 P167 bu

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
Otaru and Muroran on Hokkaido and Yokohama, Kobe, Yokkaichi and Shimon-
oseki on Honshu. The mmall units producing sun-dried meal were, however,
widespread; in general, where transportation facilities were not good
or where there was no satisfactory equipment for mamufacturing them into
food, fish were converted into fertilizers.
The fish meal production, i.e. the commercial industry, was con-
trolled by a government-sponsored Fish Meal Producers and Exporters
Association.
Figh Oil Production
Approximately 90 percent of the animal fats and oils and 30 per-
cent of the total fets and oils produced in prewar Japan was from fish
and other marine animals. In the period 1934 - 1938 annual production
varied from 62,200 to 112,800 metric tons and averaged 83,800 metric
tons (Table 55).
TABLE 55
Fish Cil Production in Japan a
Quantity
Value
(kan)
(yen)
1934
22,037,028
8,702
1935
16,595,515
8,793
1936
30,079,000
21,527
1937
24,437,345
18,001
1938
20.428,790
13,138
Source: Japan-Manchikuo Yearbook, 1940.
a These figures appear to include Japan proper
and Karafuto. Production of Korea and Formosa
is not included.
-143-
16-031 P168 bu

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.99)
The production in 1936 was about equally divided between the
three islands of Honshu, Shikoku and Kyushu, on the one hand, and
Hokkaido and Karafuto on the other. One source giving slightly different
figures than those in Table 55 reports that of the 105, 902 tons of fish
oils produced in 1936, 53,700 tons were produced in the three islands.
46,400 tons in Hokkaido and 5,800 tons in Karafuto. 78/
Sardines provided the bulk of the marine oil production, about
three-fourths of the production by value (Table 56). The largost part of
this production is from whole fish in reduction plants where meal is a
joint product.
TABLE 56
Production of Fish Oils by Type in Japan
(yen)
Year
Total
Sardine
Herring
Cod
Whale
Shark
Others
1934 8,702,511 6,416,967
358,551
375,857
408,137
431,096 711,903
1935 8,792,502 6,687,986 165,421
471,265
545,921
724,479 197,431
1936 21,527,114 16112,027
361,868
1,006,645
2,371,291
1,036,241 649,042
1937 18,001,508 14,272,777 170,818
849,508
1,151,017
947,754 609,834
1938 13,138,868 9,700,667 372,628
641,250
892,373 1,063,795 468,155
Source: Japan-Manchukuo Yearbook, 1940.
a Does not include oil from Antarctic catch.
Complete information concerning the location of fish oil plants
is not available but plants were known to be producing in the following
places: Hakodate and Sapporo in Hokkaido, Kashiwazaki (Niigata Prefecture).
Ube (Yamaguchi Prefecture), Fukuoka and Omuda (Fukuoka Prefecture),
78 Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939 (Special issue of Japan Times and
Mail, 1939). These figures do not include whale oil.
-144-
16-031 P169 bu

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
Nobeoka (Miyasaki Prefecture), Sendai (Miyagi Prefecture) and Niihama,
Ehime and Kochi (Kochi Prefecture). 79/ There were also about a dozen .
producers of hardened oils (largely fish oils) most of which also pro-
duced soap. Nomally soap was the principal domestic outlet for hardened
fish oil but they were also used for food. 80/
Seaweed Processing
Much of the processing of seaweed was simply that of drying the
raw material to be used either as food or for fertilizer (see pages l03 -
107). Other seaweeds, however, undergo more complicated mamufacture such
as the Gelidium species mamufactured into agar-agar.
Japanese statistics claim a production of about 25,000 tons of
agar-agar (Table 57). Most of this was made from a mixture of several
species of Gelidium (chiefly Gelidium amansi) which was bleached in the
sun, then pounded to remove the limy elements and again bleached. This
was followed by a l0-hour boiling period during which the agar-agar jelly
was dissolved out of the seaweed and put into moulds for congealing.
This was then cut into shapes, frozen, drained and air-dried. Agar-agar
which was marketed in four forms (bars or squares, strips, powder and
"paper") was used in the Far East as a food but in the United States and
Europe as a base for the culture of bacteria, in drugs, as a substitute
for gelatin or pecten in making puddings and jelly, in starching material
79 Report of interview with A. R. Goedicke. He reports plants in Korea
at Rashin, Seishin, Joshin, Konan and Fusan.
80' Japanese Trade Studies, Special Industry Analysis No. 15 Fats, Oils
and Oil-Bearing Materials (U. S. Tariff Commission), May 1945.
-145
10-031 P170 bu

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.99)
for textiles and for clarifying beer and wine. In prewar years a large
part of the Japanese production was exported.
TABLE 57
Agar-Agar Production
Number of Establishments
Production
Quantity
Value
(kan)
(yen)
1934
449
618,841
5,257,378
1935
463
665,000
6,390,315
1936
512
680,000
9,712,497
1937
520
708,203
10,122,783
1938
528
687,731
11,142,642
Source: Japan-Manchukuo Yearbook, 1940.
Manufacture of Other Marine Products
Other manufactures from marine products included vitamin oils
from fish livers, pearls, coral and shell buttons and iodine potassium
and other chemicals. The menufacture of leather from shark was another
minor industry which had developed in recent years.
The cod liver oil industry, the earliest of the vitamin oil indus-
tries was some years ago practically confined to Karafuto where 10 small
plants accounted for 90 percent of the production. The remainder was
produced in a few small islands off Hokkaido.
Recent information concerning the manufacture of vitamin oil is
fregmentery. Tuna liver oil for vitamin concentratee was reported produced
in Muroto, Kochi Prefecture and three small plants making vitamin oils
were operating in the Tokyo area. 81/
81 Hayashikane Shoten on island in Tokyo River, Mitsui Company at
northern edge of Tokyo and a company near Shinagawa according to Mr.
Ridlon of Atlantic Coast Fisheries.
-146-
16-031 P171 bu

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.99)
IV. MARKETING AND CONSUMPTION
Domestic Merketing and Congumption
Domestic Marketing. Little information is available concerning
domestic marketing of marine products. Only the few general etatements
given here can be made and even these cannot be fully substantiated with
details.
Japanese statistics placed the value of marine products consumed
domestically in prewar years at ? 440,000,000. No figures are available
for the volume consumed, but the total domestic disappearance of fish,
shellfish, crustaceans and molluscs (in terms of the fresh products) may
be estimated at three million tons annually for years immediately pre-
ceding the war. Of thie amount about 2.2 million tons were consumed as
food and the remainder processed into fertilizer and oil.
The larger commercial fishing operators sold domestically to the
city markets whereas the village fishermen sold chiefly to the small
towms and villages. There were, however, exceptions to this general
statement for some groups of village fishermen sold into urben markets.
In the coastal fishing areas distribution to many families was
simple -- the fisherman's family ate part of the catch. The major part
of the production, however, was transported to markets either by the
fishermen themselves or by brokers who went to the coastal villages for
the purpose of collecting the products. Some of the small village fisher-
men sold ccoperatively through their village societies (gyogyo kumiai);
other fishermen contracted to sell all their catch to companies. The
-147-
16- 031 P172 bu

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.99)
latter type of marketing was done chiefly in cases where the product
was to be canned or otherwise processed and was not very common among
fishermen who were producing for domestic consumption.
Fish markets were located in both the productive coastal distriets
and in the large consuming cities. The total mumber of fish markets in
Japan in 1934 was 934; in addition 253 markets selling fruits and vegetables
also handled fish. Thus, there were 1,187 markets handling fish through-
out Japan proper in 1934. The ownerahip of some markets was public, of
others private and of still others cooperative. The public markets were
municipally operated, most of the private ones were operated by fishery
companies and most of the cooperative markete were amall ones operated by
village fishery associations in the coastal areas.
In l923 the Central Wholesale Market Law provided for the establish-
ment of markets for fresh foodstuffs (fish, vegetables and fruits). Under
this law markets were to be established first in the large urban centers
and later in all cities with populations of l00,000 or more. Such central
wholesale markets were established in Tokyo, Yokohama, Kobe, Osaka, Kyoto.
Kochi, Kagoshima and Sasebo, but apparently none were established in
other cities. These central markets were modern with excellent facilities
for handling, sales and storage. Space was rented to wholesalers whe,
conducting their business on a commission basis 82/, sold to brokers who,
in turn, sold to retail dealers. The value of fish sold in the city
82 In prewar years the commission received by wholesalere was about
10 percent.
-148-
16-031 P173 bu

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.98)
markets of five of the large cities is given in Table 58. In prewar
years the Tokyo central market is reported to have handled 75o tons daily
and the Osaka market about 630 tons.
The retalling of fish in the cities and towms was largely through
stores. In Tokyo, for example, more than 4, 0o0 stores handled fish in
1935. In the rural areas fish was peddled daily by fish mongers.
In order to provide the large cities with fresh fish, special
daily trains were operated between major producing areas and the city
markets. For ezample, fish was quickly dispatched from Shimonoseki,
the trawling base, to Kobe, Osaka, Kyoto and Tokyo and fronm Choshi to
Tokyo. In 1937 more than 610, 000 tons of fresh fish and 280,000 tons of
salted and dried fish were moved on the Japanese railroads. The amounts
carried by months in each of the railroad bureaus is given in Table 59.
Prices. Prices of fish and other marine products in Japan
D.
during the prewar period are available for only a few items as sold in
Tokyo. The wholesale and retail prices for these items are given in
Table 60, not as any indication of present prices for the 1945 level is
well above that of 1933 - 1935, but as indications of the relative prices
of these iteme.  These figures, as yearly averages, do not show the con-
siderable seasonal fluctuation in prices resulting from seasonal differences
in supply and seasonal changes in flavor and areas of production. Table
61, giving high and low prices by months for 1937, indicates the seasonal
fluctuations in price characteristic of many fish products. The market
-149-
16-031 P174 bu

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.97)
TAELE 58
Value of Mish Sold in Major City Markets of Japan, 1937
(1,000 ym)
Tokyo
Osmica
Kobe
Iroto
Yokohe
Salted
Salted
Salted
Salted
Balted
Prech
and Dried
Freah
and Dried
Preah
and Dried
Preeh
and Dried
Treah
and Dried
January
3,468
1,250
2,237
1,645
853
310
796
411
314
154
February
3,069
1,081
2,373
1,127
809
272
739
404
321
155
March
3,546
1,447
2,655
1,319
880
320
848
503
385
100
50-
▲pr1).
3,574
942
2,694
1,209
909
296
889
474
386
1.2
May
3,393
1,031
2,762
1,267
937
321
902
478
385
144
June
3,002
956
2,266
1,327
756
309
663
396
354
112
July
2,794
763
2,114
1,256
698
265
592
37
339
114
August
2,575
788
1,953
856
682
281
560
311
345
121
Septeaber
3,066
973
2,439
1,277
728
440
620
438
346
123
October
3,395
1,153
2,466
1,905
691
416
626
541
389
149
November
3,711
1,351
2,627
1,857
822
566
697
571
407
309
December
4,255
1.845
3,475
2,568
1,085
571
988
576
427
a1
Total
39,855
13,585
30,066
17,618
9,855
4,364
8,926
5,526
3,676
1,893
Sourcer
Mippon Suisan Nempô
1938.
18-031P170

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
59
6-
Volume of Fish Carried by Railroads in Various Distriots
(tons)
03
7
P176
Tokyo
Negoya
Osaka
Hiroshima
Moj1
Niigata
Sendai
Sapporo
Total
bu
Fresh
Fish
-151-
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Total
41,349
2,239
3,769
4,747
4,487
6,815
4,325
2,038
1,444
1,261
2,061
3,456
4,707
41,006
2,597
2,435
2,638
7,909
5,949
4,606
1,170
7,084
1,059
1,501
1,950
2,108
10,266
51,947
2,671
4,796
7,548
5,999
1,912
1,086
6,675
1,193
2,466
2,896
2,439
145,818
11,651
10,517
10,171
10,961
10,567
17,051
19,961
18,597
8,351
8,970
9,709
9,307
105,379
10,821
12,814
11,038
10,890
10,821
9,370
9,032
7,085
5,026
3,179
5,312
9,991
14,169
2,826
1,056
2,601
1,188
1,705
2,388
628
594
499
251
243
190
142,904
10.262
19,697
16,383
21,900
13,524
10,479
23,353
4,929
4,922
3,900
6,701
6,854
13,762
4,117
67,640
5,082
3,213
2,209
2,343
3,288
2,987
6,085
7,816
9,004
7,734
610,297
43,623
41,788
49,000
47,329
61,520
49,516
44,808
39,369
47,628
65,670
59,273
60,683
Salted and Dried rish
January
February
March
April
May
June
July
August
September
October
November
December
Total
4,008
3,043
30,382
2,849
5,105
3,277
1,018
2,675
6,208
266
443
566
924
11,429
1,480
1,338
1,702
1,218
522
837
635
837
896
581
482
901
1,325
1,323
8,196
364
288
367
444
690
700
393
763
756
783
1,898
21,354
1,084
1,503
1,274
2,609
1,517
2,613
2,806
3,789
919
486
856
1,225
17,430
1,074
1,773
1,280
1,299
1,568
1,839
1,359
2,188
1,992
926
907
1,104
1,131
6,396
442
278
548
408
206
111
275
376
435
82
3,869
1,383
52,440
4,472
1,659
2,604
3,297
6,138
8,311
9,060
5,864
4,989
794
137,180
16,369
12,981
18,683
19,846
19,218
4,427
6,072
5,782
9,723
9,858
8,460
5,761
18,400
13,402
283,807
12,679
30,740
22,007
26,412
26,770
31,332
24,325
25,175
28,801
23,764
The Districts are "railroad bureaus.
Source:
Nippon Suisan Nempo, 1938.
The data are probably for 1937.

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
60
Wholesale and Retail Prices of Fish in Tokyo, 1933 - 1935
(Yearly Average)
Wholesale Prices (¥ per 10 kan)
Retail Prices (¥ per 10 ken)
1933
1934
1935
1933
1934
1935
Fresh fish:
Tai (seabream)
62.13
62.31
67.01
n.a.
n.a.
n.9.
Maguro (tuna)
23,36
23,41
20.72
36.30
47,40
54.00
Buri (yellowtail)
12.47
14.37
14.70
17.3
21.0
22.8
Saba (mackerel)
5.75
5.19
7.01
10.00
10.70
11.40
Salted salmon
11.43
10.68
11.35
13.80
14.40
14.30
Dried banito b/
121.14
115.65
102.29
123.00
123.10
109.70
Dried cuttlefish
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
28.70
34.80
43.30
-152-
Processed herring
cake
4.47
4.28
4.85
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
Tangle
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
33.30
39.20
34.40
Dried laver
n.a.
n.a.
n.a.
23,50
22.00
22.10
Source: Annual Statistical Report of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 1936.
n.a. - not available.
a Retail prices were given in terms of units of 375 grams (mome), but converted here
for comparative purposes.
b/ The wholesale price for dried bonito was given for katsuobushi and the retail price
for "dried bonito (Izu)"; these may not be strictly comparable.
26-
031
P177
bu

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.99)
26
C03
P178
TAELE
61
bu
Monthly Average Wholesale Prices for Various Kinds of Fish, 1937
(yen per 10 kan)
Tune
Tai
Flounder
Bonito
Yellowtail
High
Low
High
Low
Low
High
Low
Low
January
65.20
42.30
125.40
102.80
48.00
32.70
20.40
16.40
31.50
27.20
February
21.50
14.60
145.00
121.00
56.20
45.40
14.10
12.50
17.20
15.50
March
31.37
24.27
137.50
104.00
55.03
38.36
14.53
11.30
13.64
12.69
April
32.43
21.33
102.48
74.76
41.04
28.23
13.30
10.11
12.32
11.81
May
30.13
18.46
66.46
31.16
32.50
22.78
12.39
7.29
12.10
10.43
June
10.56
6.62
47.55
38.29
30.13
22.68
9.95
4.87
8.78
8.10
July
20.95
12.17
63.26
50.76
41.26
34.96
10.22
5.79
8.98
8.54
August
76.16
59.60
38.00
28.16
14.79
7.44
11.86
11.03
September
30.00
一
116.63
83.45
54.66
44.91
13.58
7.07
16.00
15.00
October
10.25
99.54
70.39
48.39
35.72
10.94
7.89
15.66
16.00
November
42.00
38.00
89.44
69.52
42.36
31.06
15.70
13.60
17.00
16.00
-153-
December
48.78
32.79
128.58
97.51
46.93
28.45
15.66
12.25
31.53
27.32
Yearly Average
31.20
23.39
100.08
75.27
44.54
32.78
13.80
9.71
16.38
14.97
Cuttlefish
Octopus
Renko tai
Prawn
Shrimp
January
14.20
12.60
23.50
21.00
26.00
161.50
149.00
48.80
43.50
February
13.50
12.00
23.10
20.20
27.80
25.70
189.80
171.70
56.60
47.30
March
14.64
13.85
22.72
21.20
25.22
212.83
195.83
72.27
63.33
April
15.20
14.16
21.38
19.90
23.50
218.85
187.81
72.37
61.68
May
21.10
19.65
22.55
19.75
187.83
160.66
55.43
49.50
June
12.66
11.00
20.56
19.23
19.36
161.22
135.61
49.52
41.66
July
16.60
11.50
21.72
19.02
17.00
148.33
118.00
49.00
44.00
一
August
17.10
12.95
21.55
19.66
19.00
143.83
118.70
48.10
40.36
September
20.37
19.00
17.46
14.10
21.00g
22.00g
164.68
141.39
35.00
21.00
October
14.97
13.34
9.52
8.36
20.43
15.50
152.33
137.18
18.72
16.52
November
13.88
13.29
9.50
7.30
23.00
18.90
145.66
130.33
30.57
28.92
December
16.52
16.00
19.50
9.97
28.43
24.87
162.50
141.25
41.53
38.36
Yearly Average
15.42
13.61
18.55
16.63
22.77
21.12
170.78
148.95
48.16
41.35
Source:
Nippon Suisan Nempo, 1938.
As given in source.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
prices of fish, that is the wholesale prices at the central markets, were
published daily in the newspapers of the larger cities such as Tokyo, Yoko-
hama, Osaka and Kyoto.
In August l940 the prices of various foods came under government
control and since that time the prices of many marine products have been
controlled by the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce through various of its
wartime agencies (see pages 205 - 206).
Consunption. The importance of fish in the Japanese diet
is far greater than in other countries for it is the major source of
animal protein and also a leadinε source of fat. In the preponderantly
starchy Japanese diet, which according to nutritionists has only "adequate"
protein and is notably deficient in fat, fish is an essential item. Fish
did not replace rice as the basis of a meal and was not normally consumed
as a bulk food. 83/ The amount actually served at a meal seems trifling
by Western standards, but because of its nutritional importance, fish is
almost as indispensible as rice.
Per capita consumption of fish, shellfish, crustaceans and molluscs
for food was probably about 65 pounds per year in terms of fresh fish. 84/
83 This is even true in the coastal fishing villages.
84/ Prewar per capita consumption figures of fish in Japan vary greatly --
estimates from 40 to l60 pounds have been made with those between 50 and
110 pounds most common. These wide variations are understandable and
not necessarily incompatible when one considers differences in meaning
of "per capita consumption" and the difficulties of computing such a
figure from the available statistics. In many cases the estimate does
not make it clear whether the figure refers to the total per capita dis-
appearance of all marine products (edible and inedible) in terms of the
weight as captured, whether it refers to the consumption only for food,
or whether it refers only to the weight of the edible portions of fish
used directly as food. Since much of the Japanese catch was used for the
-154
18-03r P179 bu

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
This may be compared with estimates of ebout 15 pounds for the United
States, 25 pounds for Germany and 38 pounds for Great Britain. Whereas
in many Western countries the per capita consumption of meat reaches more
than a hundred pounds per year, in Japan it has been estimated at about
four pounds. Thus fish takes the place of meat in the diet.
Wartime consumption has decreased greatly. On the basis of an esti-
mated catch of 1, 750, 000 tons for last year and the assumption that almost
all the fish caught was used as food, consumption for 1944-45 is estimated
at about 40 pounds. This figure may be too high as part of this catch
probably went into government stockpiles. Further reductions in production
during more recent months may mean that average consumption has dropped
still lower.
Japanese ideas concerning fish are radically different from those
of Westerners who regard meat as of higher quality; Japanese in general
prefer fish to meat regardless of price. Whereas Westerners know only a
relatively small number of fish, the Japanese used more than 400 kinds of
fish and shellfish for food purposes. Table 3 (page28) names the most
important of these; locally many other kinds were in common use.
production of fertilizer and oil and since there was also much waste in
processing (or even in fish eaten fresh) the "per capita consunption"
varied greatly in accordance with the concept used.
The following figures are presented here as estimates of the prewar
(1936 - 1938) consumption:
Per capita (pounds)
Total consumption (all uses) of fish, shell-
fish and crustaceans in terms of weight as
92 - 105
captured
Consumption of fish, shellfish and crustaceans
for direct food purposes in terms of weight
60 - 70
as caught
Consumption of fish, shellfish and crustaceans
in terms of edible portions
37 - 42
-155-
16 031 P180 bu

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.98)
Fresh, salted, dried, smoked and canned fish were conmumed. The
largest amount was used fresh -- possibly 60 - 65 percent of that consumed
as food. The chief forms of processed fish used domestically were dried
and salted. Smoked fish was less commonly used and canned fish was consumed
in relatively small quantities by the Japanese population. In recent
years canned fish was on the increase among the wealthier people in urban
centers, and during the war the canned fish which would normally have entered
export channels has been used by the Army. In spite of this increased use
of canned fish it cannot be emphasized too strongly that the bulk of the
fish consumed by the Japanese population was fresh, salted or dried. Fish
was eaten raw, boiled, broiled, fried or in soups and sauces.
Consumption of fish meal may be estimated at about 500, 000 tons in
prewar years and consumption of fish oils at about 75,000 - 1000,000 tons. 85/
Balance of Supply. Although marine products were produced
throughout all parts of Japan proper, the regional output was not in accord-
ance with the demand. Hokkaido and northeastern Honshu constituted a major
surplus region whereas much of northwestern, central and southern Japan was
deficient in fish. Within these latter areas, however, there were surplus
producing districts some of which, Nagasaki for example, had large surpluses.
Table 62 and Figure 9 show the surplus and deficit areas within Japan proper
in l939, based on the production of coastal fishing and deep-sea fishing
in home waters. These fisheries together with aquiculture approximately
provided the amount consumed within Japan proper during the prewar period.
85 Although Japan imported large amounts of fish oils from Korea, exports
of these products about equalled imports so that consumption approximated
home production.
1
-156-
10-031 P161 nobu

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.97)
PROVISIONAL EDITION
Figure 9.
120
130
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
JAPAN
FISH PRODUCING AREAS, I939
FOREIGN
ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
PREFECTURES
KYUSHU
Kogoshima
23. Shigo
2. Miyazoki
24. Fukui
3. Kumomoto
25 Ishakowa
HOKKAIDO
4. Nogasoki
26. Toyama
42
5. Saga
27. Gifu
6. Fukuoko
28. Aichi
7. Oita
29. Shizuoko
30. Yomanoshi
ADMINISTRATIVE
SHIKOKU
31 Nagano
REGIONS
8. Ehime
32 Niiagata
9. Kochi
33. Gumma
10. Tokushima
34. Soitoma
I Hokkoi
11. Kogawa
35. Tokyo
Tohoku
40
HONSHU
36. Kanogawo
37. Chiba
Konto
Tokai
40
12. Yamaguchi
38. Ibaroki
Kinki
13.
14.
Hiroshima
Shimane
39. Tochigi
40. Fukushima
VII Shikoku
I
Chugoku
2
15.
Okayama
41. Yamagata
VII Kyushu
16.
Tot tori
42. Migoyi
17.
Hyogo
43. Iwate
18. Kyoto
44. Akito
19.
Osaka
45. Aomori
20. Wakayamo
38
38
21. Noro
HOKKAIDO
22. Mie
46. Hokkaido
40
32
26
HONSHU
36
25
36
IV
37
VI
LEGEND
SURPLUS AREAS
DEFICIT AREAS
21
More thon 50,000
More than 50,000
34
0
ton surplus
ton deficit
15,000-50,000
15,000-50,000
ton surpius
ton deficit
VI
Less than 15,000
Less thon 15,000
ton surplus
ton deficit
SHIKOKU
VII
Prefectural Boundaries
Regional Boundaries
32
KYUSHU
10
0
20
40
60
88
100
32
MILES
10
0
20
40
60
80
100
KILOMETERS
130
132
134
136
138
140
142
144
NO. 2582-M
SEPTEMBER
25,1945
G-4449
PREPARED
IN THE
MAPS
AND GRAPHICS DIVISION, F.E.A.

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
62
Estimated Surpluses and Deficits of Fish by Regions, 1939
(1,000 metric tons)
Total
Estimated
Estimated Surplus
Production
a
Consumption
b
or Deficit
Surplus
Deficit
Hokkaido
994.9
96.8
+ 908.1
Tohoku
Aomori
108.4
30.6
+
77.8
Aldta
10.3
32.1
21.8
Iwate
98.8
32.7
+
66.1
Yamagata
6.8
34.2
27.4
Miyagi
73.8
38.7
t
35.1
Fukushima
96.9
48.8
+
48.1
Total Tohoku
395.0
217.1
4177.9
Kanto
Niigata
26.0
61.0
35.0
Tochigi
.5
36.8
36.3
Ibaraki
69.1
47.6
t
21.5
Chiba
181.2
47.8
+ 133.4
Gumma
.2
38.3
38.1
Sai tema
.3
47.2
46.9
Tokyo
17.3
208.9
-191.6
Kanagawa
24.2
59.3
35.1
Yamanashi
.1
19.7
19.6
1
Nagano
1.1
51.4
50.3
Total Kanto
320.0
618.0
298.0
Tokai
Shizuoka
95.2
60.8
+
34.4
Aichi
23.2
91.4
68.2
Mie
48.7
35.5
13.2
Gifu
1.0
37.7
36.7
Toyama
38.8
24.3
14.5
Ishikawe
57.3
23.3
34.0
Total Tokai
264.2
273.0
8.8
-157-
16-031 P183 b

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
62
(Continued)
Estimated Surpluses and Deficits of Fish by Rogions, 1939
Total
Estimated
b
Estimated Surplus
Production
Comsumption
or
Deficit
+
Surplus
Deficit
Kinki
Shiga
4.5
21.7
17.2
Fukui
23.1
19.9
3.2
Xyoto
26.3
53.9
27.€
Nara
.2
19.1
18.9
Wakayama
22.7
26.5
3.8
Osaka
9.4
142.9
133.5
Eyogo
39.9
92.8
52.9
Total Kinki
126.1
376.8
250.7
Chugoku
Tottori
9.7
14.7
5.0
Okayama
10.3
40.9
30.6
Shimane
37.5
22.6
14.9
Hiroshima
16.7
56.2
39.5
Yamaguchi
101.9
36.7
+
65.2
To tal Chugoku
176.1
171.1
t
5.0
Shikoku
Kagawa
10.3
22.8
12.5
Tokushima
12.9
22.1
一
2.9
Ehime
59.8
35.4
+
24.4
Kochi
40.0
21.4
+
18.6
Total Shikoku
129.3
101.7
+
27.6
Kyuahu
Nagasaki
215.2
40.1
+ 175.1
Saga
24.9
20.5
+
4.4
Fukuoka
88.4
86.9
+
1.5
Oita
20.5
30.1
9.6
Kumamo to
15.8
42.2
26.4
Miyazaki
27.7
25.9
+
1.8
Kagoshima
65.3
48.4
16.9
Total Kyushu
457.8
2947
163.7
-158-
16-031 P184 bu

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.96)
TAELE 62 (Continued)
Estimated Surpluses and Deficits of Fis: by Regions, 1959
Fotal
Estimeted
Estimeted Surplus
Production
Consumption
b
or Deficit
+ Surplus
- Deficit
Oxdnawa
7.1
18.1
- 11.0
To tal
2,870.€
2,166.7
+ 703.9
Aquicul ture estinated
production
119.0
2,989.6
2,166.7
+ 822.9 c/
a/ Production of coastal waters and deep-sea fisheries in home
weters as given in Table 1l.
b/ Population (1938 estimates) multiplied by 30 kilograms (66 pounds),
estimated prevar per capite consumption. This assumes uniform con-
sumption throughout Japen.
c/ This is approximately the amount which was used for fertilizer
and fish oil.
-159-
1'185 bu

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.99)
86
Foreign Trade
Exports. Despite Japan's high domestic consumption, fishery pro-
ducts also entered into its export trade. Certain fisheries, such as the
Northern fisheries and Antarctic whaling, produced primarily for foreign
markets, but the total amount of fishery products exported was only a
small part of the total Japanese production -- probably about l0 percent
by volume. Many of these erport products, however, were of relatively
high value compared to those consumed domestically and they provided Japan
with desired foreign exchange. In the period 1935 - 1939 anmual exports
of fish and fishery products (food, oil, meal etc.) averaged more than
100 million yen and in 1939 was more than 175 million yen (Table 63).
Although this was but 4 - 5 percent of the value of all exports, as a
group, these commodities were second only to textiles (yarns and piece
goods of cotton, silk, rayon and wool).
During the war period the exports of fishery products to Western
countries largely stopped due to boycotts and the reduced production.
The canned packs, smaller than in prewar years, have been used for the
armed forces and for stockpiling. The trade with Asiatic areas, especially
those under Japanese control, probably contimued insofar as shipping has
permitted.
86 Appendix B contains statistical details of Japan's foreign trade
in fishery products as recently compiled by the U. S. Tariff Commission.
Much of the material in this section is based on its report "Japanese
Trade Studies -- Special Industry Analysis No. 27 - Marine Products,"
August 1945.
-160-
16-031 P186 bu

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.99)
The great variety of fiehery products exported in prewar years
is indicated oy Table 63. The exports may, hcwever, be divided into two
broad groups: (1) those which found markets in Western countries, par-
ticularly the United States, United Kingdom and other European countries:
and (2) thoge generally taken by Oriental countries includine countries
in the Jepanese sphere of influence. The first group consisted predomin-
antly of canned fish and shellfish but also included frozen fish, fish
meal fertilizer and fish and whale oil; the second group consisted largely
of dried and salted products.
Canned Fish. Canued fish accounted for about half of the
value of fishery erports, being valued at more than 65 million yen in
1938 and 1939. The relative importance of canned products exported was
as follows: 87/
Quantity
Value
Product
Percent
Percent
Salmon and trout
50
54
Crab meat
9
21
Sardines
27
12
Tuna
4
6
Other
10
7
100
100
Exports of canned salmon in 1938 amounted to 51, 000 tons valued
at 38 million yen (Appendix B). United Kingdom took 68 percent of the
quantity and 79 percent of the value of these exports, with other European
countries and Australia accounting for most of the remainder.
7 "Japanese Trade Studieg -- Special Industry Analysis No. 27 -
Marine Prodicts," U. S. Tariff Commission, August 1945.
-161-
16-031 P187 bu

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
63
(1,000 yen)
1938
1939
Canned foods:
Crabs
15,244
30,323
Salmon
28,383
27,092
Trout
10,079
8,907
Tune
4,067
8,860
Sardine
7,543
7,922
Mackerel
680
872
Shellfich
1,842
2,732
Total canned foods
67,838
86,708
Dried fish and shellfish
7,648
23,916
Salted fish
3,331
13,150
Fresh fish and shellfish
6,672
9,624
Kombu (Laminaria)
2,.638
7,342
Fish livers
6,047
Amanori (Porphyra)
791
1,389
Roasted fish
811
1,153
Agar-agar
6,201
8,144
Fertilizer:
Fish powder
5,182
4,515
Sardine
4,506
4.188
Fish oil
4,348
5,277
Hardened fish oil
4,333
3,831
Shell
1,336
667
To tal
115,635
175,251
Source: Japan Yearbook, 1940-41.
a These figures do nct include exports to Korea, Formosa and other
Empire areas. Canned fisn and shelifish exported directly from the
Northern fisheries and whale oil exported directly from Antarctic
operations not reported in official statistics, are also omitted here.
-162-
16-031 P188 bu

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.99)
During the five years ended in l939 Japanese exports of canned
crab averaged nearly 12,000 tons valued at slightly more than 20 million
yen (Appendix B). These exports, which were more than 90 percent of the
production, went largely to the United States (57 percent) and United
Kingdom (28 percent).
Exports of canned sardines amounted to about 35,000 tons in 1937
but dropped to 23,000 - 26,000 tons in 1938 and 1939. Although Japanese
sardines were shipped to practically all countries of the world Asiatic
countries were the principal markets - the Philippine Islands, Netherlands
Indies, the Straits Settlement and British India (Appendix B).
Anmual exports of tuna from Japan for the five-year period ended
1938 averaged more than 5,000 tons valued at more than 5 million yen. The
United States was the leading market taking about two-thirds of the total.
Salted Fish. Total exports of salt fish were valued at
about 2.6 million yen in 1936, or about 10 percent of production. These
consisted of salmon, trout and cod shipped to Asiatic countries.
Dried Fish. The more important exports of this group were
dried cod, dried shellfish and dried seacucumbers. Asiatic markets
predominated (Appendix B).
Seaweeds. Exports of seaweeds were largely vegetable
isinglass (agar-agar), tangles and dried laver (Appendix B). In 1938
these exports were valued at 9.6 million yen with vegetable isinglass
accounting for 65 percent of the total. The United States, France, Germany
and the United Kingdom took most of the vegetable isinglass which was
-163
16-031 P189 bu

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.99)
produced primarily for export. Only a amall percent of the tangles
and laver entered into foreign trade: China. Kwantung and Manchuria
(Manchukmuo) were the chief markets for these products.
Fiah Meal. In recent prewar years Japan produced from
50,000 - l00.000 metric tons annually for export markets. More than
half of the exports were shipped to the United States with European
countries (principally the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany)
the nert most important markets (Appendix B).
ish and Whale Oil. Exports of fish oils (including
hardened fish o1l) amounted to about 60,000 to 100,000 tons in 1937 and
1938 (Appendix B). In addition most of Antarctic whale oil production
was sent abroad. in 1938-39 about 70,000 tons of the 80,600 tons produced
being exported.
Fresh and Frozen Fish. These exports represented a minor
part of the total trade in marine products. The United States took about
half of the quantity and slightly more than half of the value of these
exports. Seed oysters, live goldfish, frozen fish livers, frozen tuna
and swordfish were the products exported to the United States. Nearby
@hina and Kwantung were the other important markets for fresh and frozen
fish (See Appendix B).
Imports. Japanese imports of fish and fishery products were
relatively small compared to the total production of fisheries based
on Japan proper, and were also considerably less than the exports of
-164
16-031 P190 bu

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
these products. 88/ In 1938 imports were valued at 52 million yen whereas
exports were more than l25 million yen. .Largest imports were from colonial
areas, chiefly Korea; foreign countries provided only a negligible quantity.
During the five years ended 1940 exports of fishery products from
Korea to Japan proper averaged about 240,000 metric tons (Table 12
Appendix B). Only about 25 percent of this, however, was fish and shell-
fish for food purposes; most of the remainder was refuse material for
meal and oil manufacture and the processed meal and oil. Statistical
data are not available for the imports of fishery products into Japan
proper from Karafuto, Formosa and the Japanese Pacific islands although
these colonial areas are known to export to the home country. The Karafuto
production of canned fish was largely exported to non-Japanese areas, but
part of Karafuto's surplus dried and salted fish was probably consumed in
Japan proper. Some of the Pacific islands produced surpluses of dried
bonito and tuna, part of which was congumed within Japan.
About half of the imports from foreign areas were non-edible products 
mollusc shells, tortoise shells, sponges and fish guano (Appendix B). Of
the imports from foreign countries for food purposes the Soviet Union was
the chief provider.
During much of the war period colonial imports may have remained
fairly high although the small importsfrom foreign countries practically
ceased. In recent months, however, imports from colonial areas also
declined greatly.
88 Because of the type of statistical data available it is impossible to
make a satisfactory estimate of the volume of imports vs. exports, but a
consideration of the production and trade statistics indicates a sizable
surplus of exports by volume and a domestic consumption in the neighborhood
of three million tons of fish, shellfish, crustaceans and molluscs (in
terms of fresh product), the consumption figure used throughout this
report.
-165
16-031' P191 bu

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.99)
V. ADMINISTRATION AND ORGANIZATION OF THE INDUSTRY
Government Administrative Organization
Central Government. The central governmental administration of
the Japenese fishing industry in prewar years was through the Fisheries
Bureau (Suisan Kyoku), one of the six bureaus of the Ministry of Forestry
and Agriculture (Norinsho). 89/ This bureau exercised costrol over all
aspects of the industry although much of the administrative and supervisory
work was delegated to prefectural governments and various associations.
It licensed and directly administered certain fisheries (see page 168);
carried out the regulation of international treaties; supervised and aided
the various societies and associations, carried on research: provided for
the protection and propagation f fish; and published the national fisheries
statistics.
In 1938 the bureau contained five sections, two of which were the
Fisheries Administration Section and the Fishing Boat Insurance Section.
One source names two of the other sections as the Fisheries Superintendence
Section and the Aquiculture Section whereas another source reports the
remaining three sections to have been the Ocean (High Seas) Fishing
Section, the Marine Products Section and the Control Section. The Imperial
Fisheries Institute, a government school, is really a part of the Fisheries
Bureau.
89 In late 1943 in a wartime government reorganization parts of two
Ministries - Agriculture and Forestry and Commerce and Industry - were
consolidated to form a new Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce (Noshosho).
The Fisheries Bureau is thought to have been transferred intact to this
new ministry.
-166
16-031 P192 bu

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.99)
Prefectural Goverament.
Much of the actual rogulation of the
fisheries was handled by the prefectural governments.  Through authority
given them by the central government they promulgated and enforced laws
relating to fisbing and regulated the various societies concerned with
the industry. They licensed fisheries under their jurisdiction (see
pagel6s) and also engaged in research, conservatior measures and educa-
tional work.
These activities were handled under the "economic sections" of
the prefectural governments. In 1939, 23 of the coastal prefectures where
fishing was a major industry had separate fisheries divisions within the
economic sections; the other prefectures had no separate fisheries division,
but all had officials who were concerned with the industry.
Governmental Activities 90/
Licensing. All Japanese fishing was licensed - some types by the
central government and others by the prefectural governments. By the
Fishery Law of l90l "licensed fishing" was established according to four
categories: (1) "exclusive right" fishing: (2) "fixed place" fishing:
(3) "limited sphere" fishing; and (4) "special" fishing. The first type
of license, that of "exclusive right," provided the right to fish within
given areas to the exclusion of all others by methods not included in the
other three classes. These licenses were granted only to fishermen's
societies (Section 4 of the Fishery Law, AppendixC) which settled among
90 See Appendix C for laws and regulations relating to fisheries.
-167-
18-031 P193 bu

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.99)
their members the rights grantable to individual fiahermen. Fishing in
"fixed places" included operations by fish traps,-pound nets and weirs;
fishing in "limited sphere" denoted areas in which marine products such
as oysters and seaweed are grown; "special fisheries" included whaling and
other fishing for which special licenses were issued. Fishing of these
verious categories were greatly intermingled; these rights often contiguous,
commingled or even conflicting are reported to have been mapped and
registered by the prefectural governments. Table 64 gives the number of
licenses of each type by districts for 1937.
"Exclusive right" fishing was licensed by the prefectural goverm-
ments. "Special"licenses, which in 1939 included those for whaling,
trawling, sealing and floating cannery operations, were issued by the
central government. The other two categories are thought to have been
licensed by the prefectural governments although no direct statement to
this effect was found; at least prefectural governments are reported to
have records and maps indicating the location of all such fisheries.
Taration. Taxes were prefectural and differed from district to
district. They were levied as a license fee for the perticular classes
of fishing, as rental for particular areas or as direct taxes on boats,
nets, persons or "fishing households."
Conservation Measures. Both the central government and prefecural
governments issued orders and regulations designed as conservation
measures. Those issued by the central government dealt with whaling.
sealing, trawling and crab fishing whereas those issued by the prefectural
-168-
16-031 P194 bu

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
TAELE
64
Number of Fishing Licenses by Districts at End of March, 1937
Prefecture
Total Number
"Exclusive Right" Licenses a/
Fixed
Limited
Special
of u
of Licenses
Waterfront
Customary Prac- Unclass-
Total
Place
Sphere
Fisherie
type
tice type
ified
Licenses
Licenses
Licenses
Hokkaido
9,510
172
172
8,854
37
15,319
Aomori
1,114
84
45
129
959
11
15
Iwate
720
38
38
76
406
172
66
Miyagi
1,378
79
30
109
588
660
21
Akita
943
45
34
79
519
199
146
Yamagata
438
32
7
39
206
71
122
Kanagawa
323
36
1
37
141
79
66
Ibaraki
645
42
8
50
449
56
90
Tochigi
51
4
4
47
Gusma
67
7
4
11
36
20
Saitama
Chiber
657
79
86
3
76
一
一
6
168
3
199
5
260
71
20
1
Tokyo
268
49
15
64
13
179
13
Fului Kawa
467
68
19
一
87
131
147
108
Niigata
1,028
140
90
2
232
499
12
285
Toyama
747
20
75
95
375
15
262
Ishikawa
1,677
76
66
142
1,428
34
73
Fukui
858
47
72
119
558
15
166
Yamanashi
32
2
1
3
25
4
一
Nagano
42
11
一
11
25
6
一
G1fu
102
4
4
89
6
3
Shi zuoka
952
145
75
220
213
131
388
Aichi
955
104
41
145
455
229
128
Mie
1,431
33
219
252
292
223
66
Shiga
718
一
1
1
531
55
131
Kyoto
730
40
23
一
63
386
6
275
Osaka
71
25
11
2
38
23
3
7
Hyogo
1.341
42
108
150
675
185
331
Nara
11
1
1
10
Wakayama
1,307
92
48
1
141
373
239
554
Tottori
133
35
9
44
67
10
12
Shimane
887
68
108
176
224
57
430
Okayama
1.473
38
40
78
1,008
187
200
Hiroshima
4,559
111
48
2
161
839
2,484
1,075
Yamaguchi
3,094
84
114
198
974
115
1,807
Tokashima
51C
27
46
一
73
272
25
140
Kagawa
2,244
46
85
1
132
1,126
519
467
Ehime
4,632
109
287
3
399
915
93
3,225
Kochi
786
79
60
139
263
48
336
Fukuoka
1,114
22
73
95
635
234
150
Saga
898
34
1
35
231
460
172
Nagasaki
2,756
250
179
429
1,168
123
1,036
Kumamoto
1,100
86
26
112
307
173
508
Oi ta
1,946
75
53
129
873
62
882
Miyasaki
509
10
19
29
312
45
123
Kagoshima
866
92
17
1
110
362
21
373
Ukinawa
102
44
6
一
50
45
6
1
To tal
56,271
1,738
2,278
18
5,034
28,094
7,834
15,319
Source:
Nippon Suisan Nempo, 1938.
a
Granted only to fishermen's societies (gyogyo kumiai).
-169-
10-031 P1 J nobu

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.99)
governments dealt with local coastal depletion. These included
strict licensing, restrictions on use of some geer. Propagation of
fish and the stocking of rivers and lakes was carried out in some pre=
fectures by the government. Hatcheries, both government-owned and
private, were regulated.
Aid to Societies and Associations. Societies and their federa-
tions were encouraged and aided by the government at both levels.
Subsidies have been given to certain activities carried out by these
organizations. The associations were likewise encouraged and aided.
Research Activities. Both the central government and the pre-
fectural governments were active in fishery research. The central re-
search body was the Fisheries Experimental Station at Tokyo. There were
87 well-equipped fisheries experiment stations in the Empire, including
the colonies. Research in oceanography was promoted by the large mumber
of vessels operated out of government research stations. Training and
research were combined on many such vessels.
Bounties, Subsidies and Other Governmental Aid. Table 65
summarizes the expenditures of the central government for aid to the
fishery industry for 1932-33 to 1934-35, the latest years for which
such data are available. Assistance may be divided into direct bounties
and subsidies and indirect assistance.
Direct aid has included money granted for deep-sea fisheries,
repair of vessels, cold storage facilities, manufacturing and various
cooperative undertakings. Assistance of this type was usually extended
-170
16-032 P197 bu

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
65
Japanese Governmental Expenditure for Fisheries, 1932-33 to 1934-35
(1,000 yen)
1932-33
1933-34
1934-35
Bounties and Subsidies:
Direct assistance:
Pelagic fisheries
233
232
232
Repair of vessels
120
20
35
Cold-storage facilities
650
233
138
Cooperative activities
233
225
225
Other
364
258
221
Total
1,600
968
851
Indirect assistance:
Home market promotion
15
12
12
Promotion of exports
11
68
67
Regional assistance
227
86
93
Total
253
166
172
Total bounties and subsidies
853
1.134
1.023
Other Government Aid:
Facilitation services:
Research
800
1,081
772
Fish propagation and conservation
374
378
434
Port facilities
5,662
11,353
4,361
Other
36
70
76
Total
6,873
12,882
5,643
Administrative expenditures:
573
612
451
Total other government aid
7,446
13494
6,094
GRAND TOTAL
9,300
14,628
7,117
Source: Report to the United States Senate on Subsidies and Bounties
to Fishery Enterprises by Foreign Governments, Report No. 1l6, Second
Series, U. S. Tariff Commission, 1936 (Section on Japan).
-171-
18-031 P198 

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.99)
to various societies and associations rather than to individnal
fishermen.,
Indirect assistance was given by promoting marketing at home
or abroad, granting appropriations to prefectural governments for region-
al use, and expenditures for research, fish propagation and port facilities.
Societies and Cooperatives
The Japanese fishermen and othere interested in the industry were
organized into three types of societies: / fishery societies (suisan-
kai), aquatic products societies (suisan-kumiai), and fishermen's
societies (gyogyo-kumiai). All three types had official status and
were set up pursuant to special laws. The gorernment, both central and
prefectural, essisted and regulated their activities. Societies of
each type were also coordinated into federations or into prefectural
and national societies.
Fishery Societies (Suisan-kai). These were organizations which
were formed according to the provisions of the Suisan-kai Law of 192l.
consisting in immediate prewar years of about 300 local societies cover-
ing city or county units and 40 prefectural societies organized by the
city and county societies (Table 66). These local societies were
coordinated and controlled by the Imperial Fishery Society (Teikoku
Suisan-kai). 92/
91 In many sources these organizations are referred to as "associations",
"guilds" etc. The English names as given here with the Japanese names
are used throughout this report.
92/ In some sources called the National Association of Fisheries.
-172
18-031 P109 nobu

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.99)
TAHLE
66
Societies Concerned with the Fishing Industry: Number, Members and Expenditures,
1928, 1930 and 1934-37
1928
1930
1934
1935
1936
1937
Fishery Societies (Suisan-kai)
Number of Societies:
To tal
371
377
345
344
344
343
County and City Societies
331
337
305
303
303
302
Prefectural Societies
39
39
40
40
40
40
Imperial Fishery Society
(Teikoku Suisan-kai)
1
1
1
1
1
1
Number of Members:
County and City
Societies
440,511
457,298
450,696
444,135
447,496
448,452
Prefectural Societies
330
334
296
294
299
296
Imperial Fisher. Society
42
42
42
43
43
43
Expenditure of So-
cieties (yen)
2,037,451 1,899,8441,6446751,545,5771,672,326
2,063,959
Aquatic Products Societies (Suisan-kumiai)
Number of Societies and
Federations:
47
48
68
67
Societies and Federation
under Fishery Law
46
47
67
66
Societies
45
46
66
65
Federations
1
1
1
1
Societies and Federation
under law relating to
societieg in forein
waters b
1
1
1
1
Number of Members:
Societies under Fishery
Law
52,441
51,241
42,513
45,937
Federations under Fish-
ery Law
3
3
3
3
Societies under law re-
lating to societies in
foreign waters
39
130
37
27
Expenditure of Societies
and Federations (yen)
803,796 776,634 1,051,541 1,303,201
Fshermen's Societies (Gyogyo-kumiai)
Number of Societies class-
ified by mumber of
members
To tal
3,870
3,874
3,994
4,000
3,998
4,016 0/
Less than 50
1.287
1,239
1,257
1,223
1,198
51 - 100
938
913
923
933
928
101 - 200
919
957
973
1,694
1,719
201 - 500
619
649
692
501 - 1,000
93
100
124
124
123
More than 1,000
14
16
25
26
30
Number of Members of
Societies
509,863
526,579
574,328
580,103
594,710
605,010
Federations of Societies
Number of Federations
48
61
72
74
80
89
Number of Member
Societies
636
830
926
941
975
1,596
Source: Statistical Abatract of the Ministry of Forestry and Agriculture.
1936-37 and Japan Yearbook, 1940-41.
a/
Data not available for 1936 and 1937.
b The one society in this category is the Aquatic Products Society of Russian
Watere (Roryo Suisan-kumiai).
c
Breakdown is not available.
-173-
16-031 P201' mebu

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.99)
Members of these fishery societies included not only persons
angaged in fishing but those who manufactured, traded in or stored
fishery products. The functions are said to have included "encouragement
of fisheries, improvement and extension of the mamufacture of marine pro-
ducts, development of fishing districts and protection of aquiculture."
They also looked after the rescue of shipwrecked vessels, worked in the
field of labor relations and engaged in educational work through lectures
and exhibitions. These societies have been used by the central government
to finance and improve fishery methods and to collect statistics.
Aquatic Products Societies (Suisan-kumiai). 93/ These were organi-
zations of fishermen and persons engaged in the manufacture or sale of
aquatic products, formed under the Fishery Law of 190l, for the purpose
of "improving the fisheries, cultivation of aquatic products etc.* Unlike
the fishermen's societies formed under the same law, they were not permitted
to engage in actual fishing but were trade associations intended to work
for the general improvement of all branches of the fishery industry,
using "fishery" in its broadest sense. Although fishermen belonged to
these societies proprietors who owned vessels and gear and those engaged
in marketing or other phases seemed to have dominated many of the societies.
Except for matters provided for in the Fishery Law and Rules, these organi-
zations were regulated by the law of l900 relating to Associations for
Staple Products (Jugo-bussan Dogyo-kuniai).
93 Some sources refer to these organizations as fishery or aquatic
products "guilds."
-174
16-031 P203 bu

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.96)
In addition to the societies of this type dealing with fisheries
in home waters an act in l902 provided for the establishment of maiean-
kumiai in foreim waters. There wms but one organisation under thie law -
Aquatic Producte Society of Russian Waters (Roryo Suisan-mmiai) which
in l935 was composed of 27 member bodies.
Most sources make no clear distinction between the type of functions
or the requisite membership of the suisan-ai and muisan-himiai. One
source refers to the latter as "labor organisations" and states that
members appear to be largely drawn from industrial fishermen mplcyed
by large companies, but another source refere to them a "trade guilds."
The actual range of activities of both types of organizations appeare to
have been very wide and undoubtedly overlapped. Duplication of activities
is suggested by the fact that suisan-kmiai declined as sisan-imi were
formed following the law authorizing them in 1921. 94/
Fishermen's Societies (Qyogyc-kumiai). These socleties which were
the chief organizations of the village fishermen mumbered more than 4,000
with a membership of more thas o05, 00c in 1937. These local soc1eties
were coordinated into federutione (syofyo kunin! rangokai) of which there
were 89 1n 1937 (Table 60).
The fishermen's socteties  ave oritins which can be traced back
to remote times, out were egelly eatatlisl.ci by the Fisnery Law of 190l
for the purpose of acquiring fishery ripht? for menber fisrermen.
Licenses for "exclusive ight" fisring by iaw could only be granted to
94 In 1920 there were ore tnan 220 aquatic producta societies
(muisan-kumia1) but in 1935 only 65 (Table 66).
-175
10031P:4u

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.99)
these societies which in turn delegated privileges to their members.
Membership in these societies was voluntary but in the small coastel
fishing villages almost all adult psrsons were members of these societies.
Prefectural governments regulated and supervised these societies.
Although the original object was the acquisition of fishing
rights, gradually some of these organizations took on other functions
concerned with the improvement of economic conditions of the fishermen.
By l920 several hundred organizations growing out of gyogyo-kumiai had
taken on cooperative aspects engaging in cooperative marketing, purchasing
and credit arrangements.
Cooperatives. 95/ The cooperative movement in Japan has permeated
the fishing industry, particularly the coastal fishing carried on in
mumerous small villages. As indicated above the fishery cooperatives
grew out of the gyogyo-kumiai. Some sources consider all gyogyo-kumiai
as cooperatives, but others indicate a much emaller mumber -- 723 in
1936. This latter figure probably comes nearer to the mumber of true
cooperatives (sangyo-kuziai) dealing with fishing activities.
It is frequently stated that the fishery cooperatives began in 1933
with the revision of the Fishery Law. Actually they began earlier but
this law, which was favorable to the cooperative activities of village
fishermen's societies in marketing, purchasing and credit arrangements,
caused the reorganization of many of these societies to include coopera-
tive enterprises.
95/ For information concerning cooperatives in agriculture in which
conditions are somewhat similar to those of the fishing industry, see
"Civil Affairs Guide - Agricultural Associations of Japan" (Preliminary).
February1945.
-176
16-031 P205 bu

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.99)
Fishery cooperatives, like other cooperatives, were organized in
accordance witn the Cooperative Societies Law of 19o0 and its. numerous
amendments. Originally they were organized on a voluntary basis and
indiv'duals might belong or not as they chose. Cooperatives related to
the fishirg industr like those related to other industries were grouped
into four inds, engaged in credit, sales, purchasing and "utility."
A single society, however, could and in many cases did carry out one,
two, three or all four of the functions. Credit functions were the provid-
ing of credit to fishermen; sales functions the cooperative marketing of
the preducts produced by members; purchasing groups bought such articles
as fishing inplements needel by their members; and "utility" groups allowed
members to make use of such facilities as boats and equipment.
Above the local level were cooperative federations organizad on
district, prefectural or national lines and engaged in the same type of
work as te local cooperatives. At the national level was the Central
Union of Cooperative Societies (Sangyo-kumiai Chukai) under the super-
vision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and also a Central Bank
for Cooperative Societies (Sangyo-kumiai Chuo Kinko). 96
Although the cooperatives related to the fishary industry were
sponsored and encouraged by the government, being offshoots of the gyogyo-
kuniai and related to cooperative activities in other industries, they
appear to have been, at least originally, indigenous and voluntary.
96 This applies not only to the cooperatives of the fishery industry
but to all cooperatives.
-177-
16 031 P206 bu

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.99)
Companies
According to Japanese statistics fishery companies in the period
1936 - 1941 numbered more than 300, capitalized at between 182 - 298
million yen (Table 67). There is little information about most of these
companies, some of which engaged in deep-sea fishing off Japan proper
and in aquiculture. The largest companies were those active in the deep-
sea operations of trawling and motor-boat dragging, whaling and fishing
in Northern and colonial waters. Most of these latter operations were
undertaken on a huge scale under a monopolistic system with investment
of large capital. Numerous companies which had previously engaged in
these fisheries were merged, with government encouragement, to form super-
corporations, the ultimate management of which, in most cases, integrated
fishing activities with such diverse interests as ship-building and the
manufacture of fertilizer, explosives and soap. The two largeet companies,
which together dominated the operations in Northern waters, whaling and
trawling were the Japan Marine Products Company (Nippon Suisan K. K.)
and the Nichiro Fishery Company (Nichiro Gyogyo Kaisha). Another large
company operating in 1940 was the Hayashikane and Company. In the dis-
tributing of marine products Mitgubishi Shoji Kaisha dominated. Fourteen
of the large companies, some of which operated outside Japanese waters,
are listed in Appendix D.
As indicated below the largest companies were most strongly
interested in the export production. These firms were at least partially
controlled by the large Japanese industrial combines. One can distinguish
-178-
16-031 P207 bu

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.99)
among others the well-known family firms of Mitsubishi and Mitsui
and the Nissan interests (the Manchurian Heavy Industry Development
Corporation).
TAELE 67
Japanese Fishing Companies, 1936 - 194l
Number of
Capital
Reserves
Net Profit
Companies
(yen)
(yen)
(yen)
1936
346
182,241,152
16,665,136
15.491.053
1937
353
253,677,652
24,033,043
16,077,870
1938
313
263,093,982
27,901,291
21.173,009
1939
312
259,200,000
29,500,000
24,900,000
1940
331
273,404,454
52,021,674
37,304,332
1941
318
298,194,000
64,223,000
51,542,000
Source: Japan Yearbook, 1943-44.
Japan Marine Products Company (Nippon Suisan K. K.). This
company, the largest of all Japanese fishery companies, was created in
1937 under sponsorship of the Imperial Government. It was successor
to the much older Kyodo Gyogyo K. K. which had started in the trawling
business in 19l4, capitalized at 2 million yen. After a series of
consolidations with other companies, the Nippon Suisan K. I. in 1939
was operating steam trawlers, floating crab canneries and factory
whalers as well as smaller types of vessels.
Its operations in recent years stretched from the Northern waters
to the Antarctic whaling grounds with vessels also operating in the
Pacific south of Japan, in the Indian Ocean and even off Central America
and Argentina. In 1939, when it was capitalized at 92 million yen, with
the Manchurian Heavy Industry Development Corporation as its chief share-
holder, it claimed 87 percent of the Japanese trawlers, 70 percent of
-179
16-031 P208 bu

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.99)
the motorized drag-netters, 99 percent of the crab pack produced on
floating canneries, 40 percent of the whaling with floating factories
and 76 percent of the near-sea whaling, 50 percent of the ice output of
Japan, 61 percent of the refrigerating capacity and 20 percent of the
total Japanese exports of marine products.
At Tobata the company had a modern fishing base with wireless trans-
mitting station for communicating with its scattered fleet. Its main
office was in Tokyo, but its 50 branches were seattered throughout Japan,
Korea, Formosa and China.
Nichiro Fishery Company (Nichiro Gyogyo K. K.). This company was
the other large fishery combine, said to have been controlled by the
Mitsubishi interests but also having amone its shareholders the Mitsui
Bussan. Capitalized at 54 million yen in 1940 this company controlled
the operations in Soviet waters, the northern Kuriles and the floating
salmon canneries. Three of its main subsidiaries were the Hokkai Canning
and Warehousing Company which manufactured cans and handled warehousing.
the Pacific Fishery Company which worked floating salmon canneries and
the Kuriles Aquatic Company which carried on fishing in the northern
Kuriles. Salmon was the mainstay of this company although it also pro-
duced crab, cod and other species of the northern area. In 1939 it
operated 34 canning plants and 55 refrigerators in this area in addition
to several large-scale refrigerators located in Hokkaido, northern Honshu
and in Tokyo.
-180
16-031 P209 bu

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.99)
The company had its head office in Tokyo but the operating head-
quarters for Nichiro and its affiliates was at Hakodate. Outfitting
and ship repair were carried on at this Hokkaido port.
Hayashikane and Company (Hayashikane Shoten K. K.) This was a
family company which had operated in fisheries for more than lo0 years,
but was reorganized into a large joint stock company, capitalized at
15 million yen in 1924. In 1939 it and its subsidiary corporations owmed
580 fishing boats with a tonnage of 70,000 gross tons and engaged in
distribution of marine products and fishing gear and equipment.
The chief subsidiary was the Taikyo Whaling Company which operated
in the Antarctic. The head office of Hayashikane was located in Shimono-
seki with main branches at Tokyo, Aomori and Nagasaki.
Mitsubishi Trading Company (Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha) was the
dominant firm in the distribution of marine products. In 1938 it
handled the marketing of 70 percent of the canned salmon and 65 percent
of the canned crab; it was the exclusive distributor of Nichiro salmon and
crab and Nippon Suisan crab. In addition, it handled canned tuna, sardine
and mackerel, fertilizer and fish oils (including whale oil).
Associations
Fishing, processing and marketing groups, whether companies or
societies were coordinated in one or more of various nationwide associ-
ations. Many of these associations were government sponsored and through
them the government exercised control.
Thres of the nationwide associations were the Imperial Fishery
Society (Teikoku Suisan-kai), the Fisheries Society of Japan (Dai Nippon
-181-
16-031 P210 bu

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
Suisan-kai) and the Central Association of Fisheries Cooperatives. The
first was, a national association which tied together the numerous local
and prefectural fishery societies (suisan-kai). The Dai Nippon Suisan-
kai, which originated in l882, had members drawn from among scholars,
statemmen, industrialists and businessmen and published a number of
volumes dealing with the industry. The Central Association of Fisheries
Cooperative Societies, formed in l933, coordinated the local fishery
cooperatives.
In addition to theses associations of manufacturers and erporters
of various marine products were organized into a number of special trade
associations. These as of 1939 are listed below. Their functions dealt
chiefly with inspection of products for export, control of production,
the conducting of surveys on markets, and research on the improvement
of processing and erport marketing. They were government sponsored and
all packers of some products were forced to belong to the association
dealing with those products.
Japanese Salmon Canners Association
Japanese Canned Crab Packers and Exporters Association
Sardine and Pilchard Canners Association
Tuna Packers Association of Japan
Shellfish Packers Association of Japan
Cod Fish Packers Association of Japan
Fish Meal Producers and Exporters Association
Agar-agar Exporters Association of Japan
Frozen Tuna Association
Frozen Scallops Producers Association
Other associations of nationwide membership which were concerned
with some phase of the fishery industry were:
-182
16-031 P211 bu

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
Canned Food Association of Japan which coordinated the various
canned product associations, many of which are listed above.
Society of Ocean Fisheries Promotion
Fishing Vessel Owners Association
Japanese Association of Refrigeration
Aquatic Products Dealers Association
Trade associations (dogyo-kumiai) which were apparently not
nationwide in scope included:
Tokyo Canned Foods Association
Osaka Canned Foods Association
Dried and Canned Marine Food Exporters Association of Yokohama
The Land and Marine Products Exporters Association of Kobe
Marine Products Association of Nagasakk Prefecture
Marine Products Exporters Association of Kammon
Marine Products Dealers Association of Hakodate
Marine Products Dealers Association of Otaru
Hokkaido Tangle Exporters Association
Some of these inspected marine products packed by producers not affiliated
with the nationwide canned food associations. Most of them engaged in
promotional activities.
Fishery Schools and Training
The outstanding institute for training in fisheries was the
Imperial Institute of Fishery, a government institute near Tokyo.
This institute provided training in all aspects of the industry includ-
ing fishing methods, operation of vessels, fish culture, processing
and the development of marine resources -- a more extensive program than
fishery schools offer in most countries. Many of the graduates of this
institute were engaged in professional fisheries research, in the manage-
ment of the industry or in governmentel administration of fisheries.
Other institutes of the higher grede for fishery education and
training were the Hakodate Higher School of Fishery and the Fishery
-183
18-031 P212 hu

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.99)
Section at the Agricultural College of Tokyo Imperial University.
Fisheries teachere colleges were located at Toyama and Nagasaki and
fisheries training was also available at 27 institutions of middle
school grade. All the marine prefectures emphasized fisheries train-
ing for boys from fishing villages.
Fisheries education in Japen was supported to an extent unknown
in other countries. The range of subjects offered in the schools was
more extensive and the fishery schools and training institutes were
equipped ith training vessels, experimentel stations, fish hatcheries
and plants for processing marine products.
-184
16-031 P213 bu

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.99)
VI
INTERNATIONAL FISHING CONTROVERSIES AND AGREEMENTS
The fishing controversies of Japan which have been the subject
of recent international negotiation are four: the long-term Russo-
Japenese controversy, the Japenese-American Bering Sea salmon fishing
controversy, the Japanese "boycott" of the international whaling con-
servation program and the Japanese abrogation of the l9ll Fur-Seal
Convention. 97/ All of these will require post-war settlement and some
will require the attention of Military Government officials in regulating
the Japenese fisheries during the period cf occupation.
The Russo-Japanese Fishing Controversy
For many decades the Japanese fishermen have had the contimued
use of waters along the Russian coasts of the Japan, Okhotsk and Bering
Seas and have come to look upon this fishery as their owm. 98/ In the
late nineteenth century nationals of Japan were actively engaged in fish-
ing in Russian waters and after the Russo-Japanese War Japan pushed the
question of defining these fishery rights. The treaty of l90? established
the besis for the Japanese use of the fishery from that time to the
present with but minor changes made in later years. This treaty recog-
nized the rights of Japanese to fish along these Russian coasts except
in rivers and inlets and provided for the establishment of fishery lots
97 Japan has also had minor international difficulties involving diplo-
matic exchanges such as those caused by the operations of boats off the
coast of Central America and in the waters off the Philippine Ialands
where Japanese craft have occasionally been seized on charges of poaching.
98/ The Japanese claim that the fishing in "the northern waters" is
a right established over a period of two centuries.
-185
16-031 P214 bu

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.99)
for which the Japanese could bid on an equal footing with Russian subjects
whemever they were offered to the general public. 99/ The Japanese were
to suffer no discrimination in such matters as tares, duties or regulations.
The fishery lots were bid for at annual auctions; the Japanese
did not like this system which emphasized Russian sovereignity but they
accepted it until 19l9. Then they virtually seized the fishery lots,
collected the lease rents themselves and continued fishing without a
formal agreement. In 1924 a makeshift agreement reviving the 1907 order
was reached and with the renewal of diplomatic relations in 1925 negotia-
tions begar for a new convention to work out the fishery problems. 1
This was finally completed and signed in l928. During the entire period
from 1907 until 1928 the Japanese worked 80 percent or more of the lots.
The treaty of 1928 modified some of the provisions of 1907. Under
the new articles, although auctioning of lots continued to be the general
rule, lots could be leased by mutual agreement without public auction.
It provided for leases varying from 1 to 5 years, except for lots
attached to canneries which had ten year leeses. Following this new
convention the Soviets undertook a more vigorous exploitation of the
fisheries and in the years following up to the present disputes have
been numerous. 2 Japan has consistently tried to maintain and enlarge
99/ The leasee of a lot is entitled to the use of the territorial water
and certain area of land for shore establishments.
1/ After the Russian Revolution Japan withheld recognition of the
Soviet Government. The Treaty of Peking (1925) re-established diplo-
matic relations between the two netions.
2 Many of the disputes centered about changes in the exchange rate
of the yen. Bickerings on this point occurred, for example, in 1930-31
and again in 1934-35.
-186
16-031 P215 bu

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
its strong foothold while the Soviet Union has tried to throw off the
obmoxious arrangement which grants the use of its fishery resources to
another nation.
In 1932 the Hirota-Karakhan agreement allotted more grounds to
the Russians and "stabilized" some 280 lots under Japanese control until
1936 without having to go through the auction process. 3 In 1936 when
the l928 treaty expired negotiations to review the entire problem were
to have been undertaken. A new treaty, however, was not concluded and
in 1936 and again in 1937 a modus vivendi was reached extending the 1928
treaty and the 1932 agreement.
During l938 a tense situation developed over the northern fisheries
when the fishing vessels of each nation were interfered with in the
waters of the other. When the Soviets announced that "the fishery agree-
ment would not be automatically renewed, that cannery lots which expired
in l938 could not be renewed for another year, but that lots exempted
in 1932 would again be placed on auction, with the exception of those
lots to be held by the Soviets for strategic reasons, " the Japanese
threatened to send cruisers to protect their fishermen in Kamchatka
waters. 4
A new agreement was finally reached in April 1939. The "stabilized"
lots" were again offered for auction, but it was agreed that Japan could
3 Although the exchange rate problem was discussed, no new settle-
ment was reached on this point.
4 Leonard, L. Larry, International Regulation of Fisheries,
Washington, 1944.
-187-
10-031 P216 bu

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.99)
have all of these for which her nationals bid. Twenty-seven of the
other lots were withdrewn by the Soviets and lots which had been in
operation for three years were leased for a five-year period. The
exchange rate was to continue under the 1932 agreement as 32.5 sen per
ruble. In all, Japan obtained control in 1939 of 359 fishing lots of
which more than 260 of these were stabilized for five years. The
Soviets had more than 400 lots in that year.
The status quo was preserved by an anmual modus vivendi in the
following four yerrs -- 1940 through 1943. In 1944 the five year leases
of lots auctioned under the arrangement of 1939 expired and on March 30.
1944 a new agreement was reached which extended Japanese fishing activ-
ities until December 31, 1948. This agreement did not contain any new
basic features, being really an extension of the expired agreement. It
provided, however, for a 30 percent increase in rents of lots over those
of 1928 (a 20 percent increase over 1943 rents), raised rates for the
operation of canneries, made certain changes in the prohibited areas
and abolished certain limitations to which Soviet citizens were subject
under the convention of 1928.
Japanese-American Salmon Fiehing Controversy
One phase of Japan's intensive prosecution of the world's fisheries
was the "invasion" of Alaskan salmon fisheries in 1936 - 1938. 5 The
resulting clash with American interests caused considerable discussion
5 Japan's attempt to enter the Bristol Bay salmon fishery was part
of its general fishery expansion. Canned salmon was largely an export
product and the British market, which took the major part of Japanese
export of this product, preferred red salmon for which Alaska's Bristol
Bay is the world's main source of supply. Japan was largely dependent
-188~
16-031 P217 bu

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.99)
and re-examination of the principles of international law as applied
to fisheries, but in 1938 the Japanese vessels withdrew from the area
end the fundamental issues were left unsettled.
The first indication thet the Japanese were considering the
possibility of Alaskan salmon for their fishing enterprises was in l935
when the Japanese Diet approprieted money for a three-year scientific
study of salmon in the Bering Sea area. In 1936 the first research
vessel appeared in Bering Sea to study the routes of migration and the
availability of salmon on the high sees. In the same year another
vessel, & floating salmon cannery with six auxiliary tenders, licensed
to operete in Sibcrian waters, appeered about a hundred miles southeast
of the Fritilof Islands and a training vessel of the Imperial Fisheries
Institute of Tokyo which annually cruised in this area was reported to
have canned salmon as well as crab. 6
Before the opening of the 1937 fishing season Japanese fishing
interests sugested the formation of a joint American-Japanese company
to operate floeting salmon canneries in Bristol Bay, but this proposal
was declined by tre Americans. In June l937 when a fleet of Japanese
for its salmon on Soviet fishing concessions and expansion therein
was limi ted. The new floating cannery technique made possible the
catching and cenning of salmon on the high seas, but such operations
near. Asiatic shores were limited by the interests of the shore canners
and by increesed Soviet operations.
6 In 1930 Japanese fishermen began to work Bering Sea crab fisheries
which had no been exploited by Americans. This industry, considered
unprofitable by Americans, was operated about 20 miles north of the
Alaskan Peninsula. Fearing interference with the valuable salmon fish-
eries the United States reached an informal understanding in 1931-32
whereby the Japanese agreed to abstain from catching salmon and the
United States government agreed to refrain from encouraging an American
crab industry, As long as the activities of Japanese vessels were con-
fined to the taking of crabs American concern was not aroused.
-189
16-031 P218 bu

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.99)
vessels appeared in Bristol Bay, allegedly for crab fishing, the sus-
picions of American fishermen who feared an invasion of the salmon
fisheries were arousea. When the United States Government telegraphed
the Embassy at Tokyo it was informed that "no license had been issued
for salmon fishing in Bering Sea, and Japanese vessels reported to be
operating near Alaska are presumably engaged in crab fishing." Neverthe-
less during the summer it became clear that Japanese vessels did catch
salmon and throughout the season feeling ran high in the fishing circles
of Alaska. 7
Throughout the fall fishing interests actively protested the Jap
enese operations and in November l937 the State Department fully stated
the case in a note tc Japan. In March 1938 the State Department announced
that the Japanese Government had given assurances that selmon fishing by
Japanese in the Bristol Bay area would be curteiled, that the three-year
salmon fishing survey would be discontinued and that the Japanese Govern-
ment would contimue to suspend the issuance" of licenses for salxon fish-
ing in Bristol Bay.
May 1938 brought wild excitement among the Pacific Coast fishermen
when Japanese fishing boats appeared in Bristol Bay. 8 Just prior to the
7 Several fishing companies and union representatives chertered a plane
which took pictures of Japanese vessels in the process of catching salmon.
One vessel was reported with "20,000 freshly caught salmon" aboard.
8 To fully understand and appreciate the American case in this Japanese
"invasion" one must realize the importance of salmon to the Pacific Coast
area and the long years of development and conservation of this resource
by the American Government. Salmon constitutes the single largest economic
resource of Alaska. Over a period of years the United States Government
has spent large suns to conserve the salmon fisheries and by adherence
to a policy of conservation, highly productive fisheries in perfect balance
have been achieved. The fishermen of the Northwest who had felt the
-190
16- 031 P219 bu

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.99)
salmon season, however, the Japanese boats withdrew.
Whaling Controversy
Recognizing that the unregulated killing of whales might lead
to their extermination, several nations under the leadership of Norway
and Great Britain, with the aid of the League of Nations, inaugurated
measures for the conservation of this fishery resource. From about 1930
on conferences have been held and treaties and agreements signed in
which measures have been adopted by a mumber of nations to restrict
whaling in the Antarctic grounds. 9/ The ultimate success of such a
conservation program depended upon the cooperation of all nations whose
nationals frequent the whaling grounds. Since the Japanese had been
plying the Antarctic grounds with increased intensity, it was essentil
restraining hand of the government in their operations deeply resented
the Japanese fishing which appeared to be without restriction and which
would in a comparatively short time, if continued unchecked, mullify
the conservation efforts.
9 The agreements attempted to protect the whale stock without work-
ing disproportionate hardships on those nations largely dependent on
land stations as against those dependent upon factory ships. Two
species (right and grey) were given complete protection by prohibiting
their slaughter; one (mumpback) was protected by restricting the catch.
Absolute closed seasons were established for some areas and flexible
closed seasons for other areas. The taking of "calves or suckling
whales or female whales which are accompanied by calves or suckling
whales" is prohibited. For the blue, fin, humpback or sperm spscies,
a size limit was fixed below which it is prohibited to take or kill
them. Factory ships and land stations were required to make complete
use of the carcass and to supply their government with detailed informa-
tion on the type, size and condition of the whale caught and the amount
of oil obtained. In order to decrease the size of the catch it was
required that remuneration of employees on catcher ships be based on
other than the mumber of whales killed.
-191-
16 · 031 P220 bu

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.99)
that Japan become a member of the conservation program. 10/ Japan, how-
ever, remained aloof, preferring freedom from the restraints of inter-
national fishery agreements for its nationals whereas all other nations
engaged in this fishery agreed to the program. 11/ In fact, Japanese
fishermen took the opportunity which nationals of those states which were
parties to the convention were restricted, to extend their operations.
Although some progress was made in the conservation of whales, the program
prior to the outbreak of the war in September l939 fell short of achieving
its aim due, in part, to Japan's failure to cooperate. l2/ This conflict
of Japan with the conservation program of other nations for the protection
of whales is one of the friction points awaiting post-war settlement. 13/
10 Japan only became interested in Antarctic whaling in 1934-35, but
had become one of the leading whaling countries by 1937 - 1938. By that
year Japanese whalers in the Antarctic had increased threefold over 1935-36;
Japan had 20 percent of the men engaged in whaling and took about 14 per-
cent of the catch (see page 109-113).
11/ Though Japan sent a delegate to the London Whaling Conference of
1938 he did not sign the protocol nor did the Japanese adhere to the
agreements established.
12/ According to Leonard, op. cit., other factors in the failure to
achieve complete success were lack of adequate knowledge of the migrations
and life history of whales and the refusal of nations to adopt measures
which would curtail the profits of their nationals.
13 During the early war period attempts were made by some of the whaling
countries to continue conservation measures but as submarine and raider
warfare made whaling expeditions hazardous and as many vessels had been
destroyed, operations were greatly curtailed. In 1944 a conference of
seven governments which met in London adopted a protocol restricting
Antarctic whaling effective immediately upon the cessation of hostilities.
Japan, of course, was not a party to this.
-192-
16-031 ?221 bu

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.99)
The Fur Seal Controversy
In 19ll by a multilateral agreement the United States, Great
Britain, Russia and Japan agreed to protect the fur seals of the North
Pacific. These animals establish rookeries on the Pribilof Islands of
the United States, the Russian-owned Commander Islands and the Japanese-
owned Kaihyoto Island (Robben or Seal Island) during the summer months
but migrate into more southerly waters to winter grounds. Although
there are no breeding grounds in British territory nationals of Canada
had long been interested in pelagic sealing.
Under the terms of this convention pelagic sealing was forbidden
in the Pacific area north of the 30th parallel including the Bering.
Okhotsk and Japan Seas. The regulation of hunting on its islands was
left to each government and the hides taken on these islands, or the
revenue from them, was shared with the other nations. 14/ The consorva-
tion measures eatablished by this convention rehabilitated the stock of
fur seals in the North Pacific, as indicated by the Pribilof Island herd.
the largest herd, which increased from 123, 600 in 1911 to 2, 338, 312 in
1939.15
14 Both Great Britain and Japan were to receive $200, 000 each and 15
percent of the catch of the United States and of Russia. Japan was to
deliver 10 percent of its catch to the United States, Russia and Great
Britain and similarly, if any seals frequented the shores of waters
under the jurisdiction of Great Britain, 10 percent of those seals were
to be delivered to each of the other parties.
15/ The much smaller Japanese end Soviet herds are estimated at about
30,000 and 20,000 respectively. (Japan's Fisheries Industry, 1939 -
Special issue of Japan Times and Mail, 1939).
-193
16-031 P222 bu

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.99)
In October 1940 Japan gave notice of its abrogation.of the treaty
and a year later the treaty was terminated. The Japanese Government
claimed that valuable food fish were destroyed by the increased herd.
thus detrimental to its fishing industry, and also indicated that Japan
should have a larger share in the distribution of the seal catch.
Whether the Japaneee charges were more then a preliminary war move is not
readily ascertainahle for detailed scientific investigations to uphold
or refute theee claims were lacking.
In December 1942 the United States and Canade made an agreement
which because of wartime shortages permitted the taking of fur seals on
the high seas. With the war's end further intermationel negotiations
for fur seal regulation can be expected and Japan, sharing in this re-
source, should be s perty to any convention.
-194-
16-031 P223 bu

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.99)
VII WARTIME CONDITIONS OF THE INDUSTRY
The war has brought significant changes to all aspects of the
fieheries industry. Since l940 there have been increasing indications
of reduced supply; the fishing companies have been reorganized to assure
closer government control; and the distribution and consumption of fish
have come under government regulation.
Decline in Supply
The supply of marine products during the war period is known to
have decreased coneiderably, particularly during 1943, 1944 and 1945.
Quantitative figures, however, can only be guesses made on the basis
of meager information concerning, on the one hand, the reduction of
fishing boats, personnel, equipment and gasoline and, on the other hand,
reports of consumer shortages. On such a basis it is estimated that in
1943-44 the production was about 2, 360,000 metric tons of fish all of
which was available for consumption by the population of Japan proper
and in 1944-45 1,650,000 metric tons. 16/ In more recent weeks when
the Allied fleet was close to the shores of Japen proper and mines were
laid in some of the bays, production undoubtedly dropped well below the
levels indicated in the figures above.
The decline in production has been due primarily to the developing
shortages of boats, manpower, fuel and equipment, but has also been
16 Civil Affairs Guide -- Japan, Section 7: Agriculture, April 1944.
A report "The Food Position of Japan, " April 1945 prepared by Office
of Strategic Services, gives 2,240,000 tons for the year 1943-44 and
1,750,000 tons for 1944-45. These estimates are based on Japanese
statements regarcing catch and the assumption that almost all fish is
used for food.
-195
16-031 P224 bu

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.99)
related to the government pricing of food fish. Large and medium sized
fishing vessels were commandeered by the armed forces; others were re=
quisitioned for use in transporting materials not only in the coastal
trade but also between Japan and Manchuria, Korea and Formosa and many
of the small boats were transferred to China for use in landing opera-
tions. 17/ Military conscription, the removal of large numbers of fish-
ermen for the operation of commercial boats and the shift of fishermen
to other more lucrative war industries has resulted in a manpower short-
age. Many of the fishing industries are functioning with older men,
women and children; since 1942 women have increasingly replaced men in
the fishing industry. All boats using Diesel oil or gasoline have been.
restricted because of fuel shortages; fuel for Diesel-powered fishing
vessels began to be rationed in August 194l whereas small gasoline boats
were less severely restricted at this time but later suffered sizable
reductions in fuel rations. Shortages of equipment, including nets, have
been reported.
Fisheries in the outlying areas - deep sea, northern waters and
trawling -- were particularly curtailed because of these shortages.
Production in the Soviet waters, for example, in 1942 was reported to be
about half that of the prewar period and in 1943 only one salmon floating
17/ Reports indicate thet the number of fishing boats even of the
smaller sizes which were taken over by the government was coneiderable.
According to a report of conditions in late 1943 about one-third of the
30 - 60 ton fishing boats had been commandeered for military or trans-
port purposes. (Report from prisoner. Information Bulletin No. 21
(No. 2) of Southwest Pacific Area, July 5, 1944.)
-196
16-03r P225bu

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
cannery was operating in the Okhotsk Sea where normally eight were
ective. 18/ The production of coastal fisheries has also declined
despite attempts to keep this production as high as possible. Although
these fisheries which produce the bulk of the Japanese supply have
suffered less, the shortages of boats, manpower and fuel have greatly
reduced the total production. Added to this has been dissatisfaction
with the prices established by the government and in recent months the
feer of destruction by Allied naval and military operations, such as
air attacks on fishin boats and mines laid in coastal waters. Aquiculture
production has been encouraged by the government throughout the war years,
but although no data ere available it is unlikely that recent production
has increased to any considerable extent because of manpower shortages.
The only data indicating actual supply conditions from the
consumer end are a few isolated ones giving shipments and distri-
bution of fish in the city of Tokyo for August 1944 and statements
concerning rations. Table 68 indicates that on a particular day
Tokyo received 234 tons of fish which were distributed among approx-
imately 857,000 persons. This quantity of fish is less than one-third
of the prewar average daily receipts for Tokyo and may possibly represent
a larger than usual deily shipment. This isolated case would suggest
a lower overall supply figure for Japan than given above, but undoubtedly
conditions in Tokyo and other large cities are not typical of the
18 It is reported that 5 fishing grounds are being operated in Soviet
waters in 1945 (in 1939 more than 300).
-197-
16 03t P226 bu

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.99)
TAHLE
68
Fish Brought into Tokyo on August 26, 1944 and Number of Persons
ReceivingFish Rations
Fish Brought In:
(tons)
Fresh fish
117
Frozen fish
62
Clams
41
Whale meat
9
Processed articles
5
234
Distribution :
Number of persons receiving ration
Whale meat
30,454
Baked fish cake
62,000
Clams
102,156
Dried herring
35,257
Dried small fish
93,150
Frozen "hokke" and scallops
49,399
Dried cuttlefish
81,258
Boni to
264,766
Flounder
138,629
Total
857,069
Source: I.D.C. Abstract, Auust 27, 1944.
-197a-
16-031 P227 bu

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.99)
country as a whole; in other areas, especially those near the sea coast,
supplies of fish are thought to be considerebly better.
The drastic cut indicated in the fish supply available for domestic
consumption from about 3,000,000 metric tons in prewar years to 1,650,000
tons in 1944-45 can be expected to have seriously affected the Japanese
diet. The prewar per capita consumption of about 65 pounds can be ex-
pected to have been reduced to about 40 pounds. 19/ This loss in protein
supply is important even though it has been mitigated to some extent by
soybean imports.
Although no data are available concerning the size of Japan's
stockpile of fish and other marine products, the quantities of dried,
salted, smoked and canned fish stored for emergency use are thought to
be sizable for Japan has been accumulating food stockpiles over & period
of several years. One estimate places the reserves of smoked and canned
fish as between 25 and 50 percent of annual consumption. 20
Wertime Distribution
Rationing of food in Japan began in 1940 on a local basis when
several cities, finding themselves in short supply, attempted regulation.
When such local rationing was first applied to marine products is not
19 Although the total supply is estimated to have been reduced by
almost half the per capita consumption for food is estimated as less be-
cause during the war there has been diversion of fish normally used for
oil and fertilizer to food purposes and waste has undoubtedly been
reduced
20/ "The Food Position of Japan," Office of Strategic Services,
April 1945.
-198
16-031 P226 bu

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.98)
known, but in the latter half of l94l there were local shortages and
irregular supply of fish which led to various systems designed to
achieve fairer distribution. For example, in August l94l an ordinance
was issued for Hyogo Prefecture outlining a plan for the distribution
of fiah 21/ and in February 1942 rationing of fish was instituted in
Tokyo. 22/
Early in 1942 the Food Control Bill, which established the basis
of wartime food control in Japan, provided for complete control of rice
and other grains and the partial control of other foods, including
marine foods. The purpose of this lavw was to: (1) strengthen the govern-
ment control of food; (2) readjust the distribution of food; and,
(3) to preserve and store food for emergency use. Although the structure
for control set up under this law was national in scope and under the
general supervision of the Bureau of Food Control of the Ministry of
Agricul ture and Commerce, the actual operation for marine products was
by control associations established by prefectural governments. Accord-
ing to the announcement in February 1942, marine products were to be
regulated in accordance with the following general plan: 23/
1. Prefectural governments were to establish control regulations
through designated local control organizations which were in turn to give
directions to those concerned with the selling and distribution of
21
Japan Weekly Chronicle, Kobe, August 7, 194l.
22
Report of returned repatriates.
231
I.D.C. Abstract, March 1942.
-199
18-031 P229 bu

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.99)
marine products. Without special permission those dealing in marine
products were not to be allowed "to produce or import products not
designated by the local control organizations and the local goverament."
2. Prefectural governments were also to designate the kinds of
marine products to be handled by shipping organizations of the prefecture.
3. The sale of marine products for business use or consumption
must not take place outside the district markets except when special
permission was given.
4. When necessary, local governments may issue orders concerning
priority, quantity and methcd of distribution to retailers.
Undar the controls established at this time there were more than
120 distribution points for fish shipments throughout Japan but the
distribution to consumers was mainly centered on seven consumption regions --
the six large cities — Tokyo, Osaka, Yokohama, Kyoto, Kobe and Nagoya -
and Southern Kyushu. Elsewhere counties (guns) were dosignated as con-
suming districts.
The fragmentary reports from Japan do not state whether all marine
products came under this control, but salted and dried fish are mentioned
as the most important items under control. It is considered likely that
in areas of short supply all marine products were placed under regulations
whereas in other areas some marine products were not controlled.
Later eleven "designated consuming cities" for fresh fish and
vegetables were named — Tokyo, Yokohama, Nagoya, Kyoto, Osaka, Kobe,
Hiroahima, Kure, Shimonoseki, Northern Kyushu and Sasebo. For distribution
-200
r0-031 P230 bu

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.99)
to these designated areas shipping plans on the kinds and monthly quotas
were made up by the Central Agricul tural Association (Chuo Nogyo Kai).
approved by the Ministry of Agricul ture and Commerce, and notifications
were sent by this central association to the local associations. After
August 1944, however, the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce directly
notified local government of their producing and shipping plans and made
local government authorities responsible for shipping quantities of fresh
fish to the consuming areas "taking into consideration local consumption
and raw materials for processing."
Since the rationing control of fish is local rather than nation-
wide, the per capita allowances may vary considerably from area to area.
Within any area the per capita ration is also not a fixed quantity for
fish is distributed at irregular intervals depending upon the supply. 24
For each distribution special ration stamps are probably validated which
can be used to obtain only the specific ration in question. The actual
method of distribution from retailer to consumer varies; it is reported,
for example, that several methods were used in Tokyo. 25/
Table 69 names the agencies for the control of fish distribution
in several of the large cities as reported in May and June 1944. The
distribution units in the six large cities as of April l944 are reported
in Table 70.
24 In Tokyo in late 1943 fish was reported to be allocated about every
three or four days.
25/ Reports from returned repatriates indicate two different ways of
handling the distribution of fish to coneumers in Tokyo during the last
part of 1943. In one district the fish dealer gave each of his customers
a mumber and by posting the mumber of those he could provide on a sign
in his shop he supplied his customers in turn. In another section of
the city, however, "fish day" was announced a day in advance and a long
line formed with the policy of "first come, first served."
-201-
16-031 P231 bu

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 69
Control A encies for the Distribution of Fish as Reported
in 1944
Reported in May 1944:
Osaka: Kyoto-Osaka-Kobe Fish Distribution Conpany (Shigeta, Chief
Economics Department): Sea Products Company (Otsubo, Chief of Police
Department): Fish Retailers Association (Sakama, Mayor); Sea Prolucts
Enterprise Aesociation (Chief of Commercial Economic Association of
Kanto Urban Prefecture); Central Sea Products Enterprise Association;
Empire Sea Products Cntrol Company, and Osaka City.
Kyoto: Kyeto-Osaka-Kobe Fish Distribution Conpeny (Tanaka, Chief of
Econosics Department); Sea Products Company (Miyada, Chief of Police
Departuent): Fish Retailers Association (Sunohara, Mayor); Sea Products
Association (Takegami--, Chief of Comnercial Economic Association);
Enpire Sea Products Control Company, and Kyoto City.
Kote: Kyoto-Csaka-Kobe Fish Distribution Company (Saito, Chief Economics
Depertment); Sea Products Company (Tatsuno, Chief of Police Derartment);
Fresh Fish and Clams Retailers Association (Noda, Mayor); Sea Products
Enterprise Association (Kikuchi, Chief of Commercial Econonic Associntion);
Empire Sea Products Control Company, and Kobe City.
Reported in June 1944:
Name
Address
Yokohama Fresh, Salt and Dried Fish
Yokohama City, Kanagawa-ku,
Corporation (Yokohama Namauo Shio Hoshi
Yamauchi-chio 3-chome 1
Kabushiki haisha)
Central Marine Products Corporation,
Kawasaki City, Ikeda-cho 140
Kawasaki Fish Market (Chuo Suisan
Kabushiki Kaisha, Kawasaki Uo Ichiba)
Yokohaa Marine Products Establishing
Yokohama City, Kanagawa-ku.
Aseociotin (Yokohama Suisanbutsu
Yamauchi-cho, 3-chome l
Shiu Kumiai)
Yokohama Fishery Enterprise Association
Yokohama City, Kanagawa-ku,
(Yokohama Uosho Gyo Kuniai)
Yamauchi-chio, 3-chohe 1
-202-
16 031 P232 bu

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 69 (Continued)
Control Agencies for the Distribution of Fish as Reported in 1944
Name
Address
Kawasaki FisheryEnterprise Association
Kawasaki City, Horikawa-cho, 19
(Kawasaki Uoshogyo Kumiai)
Kanagawa Prefecture Marine Products Indus- Yokchama City, Masago-cho
try Association (Kanagawa Ken Suisan
1-chome 2
Gyo Kai)
Central Marine Products Enterprise Asso-
Tokyo City, Shiba-ku,
ciation (Chuo Suisangyo Kei)
Kaigan-dori 1-chome 20
Imperial Marine Products Control Corpora-
Tokyo City, Kyobashi-ku
tion (Teikoku Suisan Tosei Kabushiki
Nada-machi 3 chome 8
Kaisha)
Imperial Marine Products Control
Yokohama City, Naka-iu,
Corporation (Teikoku Suisan Tosei
Minatomachi, 1-chome 1
Kabushiki Kaisha)
Imperial Marine Products Control
Kawasaki City, Sunago -
Corporation (Teikoinu Suisan Tosei
1-chome
Kabushiki Kaisha)
Source: I.D.C. Abstracts.
-203-
15-031 P233 bu

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE Z0
Status of Rationing of Sea Food in the Large Cities As of April 1944
Tokyo.
The method of distribution is "free registration" according
to units of neighborhood associations. Among the 48 branches,
7 are under combined operation and the rest under a combined
selling system.
Osaka.
Fish distribution is handled with street assoclations as
units.
Yokohama.
District distribution system is applied, with combined sell-
ing and combined handling.
Kyoto.
"Free registration" system with neighborhood units is applied.
A change from the individual operation to combined selling
system is being considered.
Kobe.
District distribution system is employed. Selling is not
combined, but transportation fees are computed under a
combined system.
Nagoya.
District distribution system is employed. Combined selling
system and individual operation are both practiced.
Source: I.D.C. Abstracts, April 1944.
Note: As the above indicates several systems were in use in the large
cities for the distribution of marine foods at this time. According to
one source the government food control corporation (Foodstuffs Control
Corporation) distributed through neighborhood associations while private
control associations operated through regular wholesale and retail out-
lets. In general, in the large cities the local distribution of
rationed foods to the consumer was through neighborhood associations
(tonari gumi). Neighborhood associations are the smallest of many
bodies and organizations by which life in Japan is regulated. Each
neighborhood association is composed of l0 families presided over by a
neighborhood group head.
Also indicated above is the fact that much of the selling and
transportation of marine foods was done by "combined operations,"
presumably under close government supervision.
-204
16 031 P234 bu

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.99)
Despite the control of food distribution, illegal operations are
widespread, and it is reported that most people who have the means and
the opportunity supplement their rations by buying in the black market.
Fish enters into the black market in considerable amounts; undoubtedly
fishermen have been withholding their catch in sufficient quantities to
ive or sell to their friends. Underlying the large diversion of marine
products is the basic difficulty of policing a large number of small-
scale fishermen.
Distribution has been a major problem not only because of control
difficulties but also because transportation services have been irregular.
The regular fish trains which served the large cities in prewar years
were discontinued at least much of the time.
Wartime Price Control
In August 1940 a cabinet ordinance provided for several price
controls for perishable food including fish and shelifish. Wholesale
and retail prices under this ordinance were fixed by the prefectural
governments with the advice of a price fixing committee, the whole system
being administered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce. The prices
of all fish except the poorer varieties were controlled. When these prices
were set they were reduced below the free market price prevailing at the
time and only minor revisions have been made up to April 1943. Because
the prices of most fish were held down by the government, some of the
poorer varieties which were not under control became more abundant in
the markets and sold at relatively high prices. One of the complaints
-205
16-031 P235 bu

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.99)
of the fishermen throughout price control has been that the government
prices were too low to make fishing operations pay. In the summer of
1944 when the flow cf food to the large cities was especially poor an
attempt was made to increase food shipments by authorizing the food con-
trol agencies to pay prices high enough to cover the transportation
costs. 26/ In Au ust 1944 it was reported that official ceiling prices
of fish were increased 20 - 27 percent.
Details of fish prices during the war period are lacking except
for the two following items:
1. A prisoner of war who formerly worked in a fish market in
Tobata reports the retail prices listed in Table 71as prevailing during
the period May 194? to April 1943 and states that prices paid by the
store to wrolesale dealers were about 20 percent less than these retail
prices.
2. In June 1944 the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce by
which fish prices are controlled announced maximum selling prices for
ground dried fish as given in Table 72.
Wartime Reorganization of the Industry
Administrative Reorganization. During the war changes in the
administrative organization affecting fisheries were numerous but full
details of most changes are lacking. In October and November 1943 parts
"Wartime Distribution of Food in Japan," Office of Strategic
Services, March 1945.
-206-
16 031 P236 bu

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 71
Retail 1sh Prices in a Tobata Store, May 1942 - April 1943
Fish
Size of Fish
Usual Weight
Price per l00 momme
(feet)
(momme)
(sen)
saba
1121
70 - 30
19
iwashi
15
9
aji
70 - 80
27
tai
1
500
142
tuna
sold in pieces
105
buri
3
2,000
34
sawara
3
1,500
81
hirasu
22
1,200
34
akabana
1,200
67
tachi
2
150
19
fuka
4
7,000 - 8,000
30 - 40
neko
2
1,000
20 - 30
Note: Normally the first types would be sold in largest quantities,
but as these were only procurable in small amounts, it was necessery
to fall back on other varieties some of poorer quality. Fuka and neko,
poorer fish for which prices were not fixed at this time, constituted
a major part of the business during the period indicated.
TABLE 72
Official Maximun Selling Prices for Ground Dried Fish.
June 1944
Type of Fish
Price for Pro-
Prices for Marine Prices for
Prices for
ducers
Industrial Assns.
Wholesalers
Retailers
(per 10 kan)
(per 10 kan)
(per 10 kan)
(per 10 momme)
Ground dried
boni to
¥139.73
￥145.32
¥149.68
¥1.65
Ground dried
sardine
68.14
72.22
75.83
0.87
(A grade)
Ground dried
sardine
39.23
42.25
43.73
0.52
Rough ground
fish powder
41.60
44.51
46.73
0.54
Source: I.D.C. Abstract, June 1944.
1 kan equals 3.75 kilograms.
1 momme equals 3.75 grammes.
-207-
16 031 P237 bu

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.98)
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry merged with parts of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry to form a new Ministry of Agriculture
and Commerce (Nδshosho). In this governmental re-shuffle the Pisheries
Bureau seems to have been taken over intact by the new ministry.
Several wartime bureaus established under the Ministry of Agri-
culture and Commerce have had, either simultaneously or successively.
some concern with fish production, distribution or pricing. Among
these were: Bureau of Food Control (Shokuryo Kauri-kyoku), Commodity
Price Bureau (Bukka kyoku), Livelihood Commodity Bureau, Resources
Bureau (Shizai kyoku) and Recruitment Bureau (Yoin-kyoku).
Reorganization of Companies and Other Organizations. All phases
of the fishing industry were subject to close government control prior
to the war but since 1942 several reorganizations have brought still
closer control. In late 1942 and early 1943 the deep-sea fishing
industry was reorganized so that only one biε enterprise operated in
these fisheries -- the Imperial Fishing Control Company (Teikoku Suisan
Tosei Kaisha). This company, formed with a capital raised by the lead-
ing fishery companies, lets out boats and gear to four branch companies,
operates cold storage plants and grants necessary credits to the branch
companies. The branch companies -- the Northern Pacific Fishing Control
Company, the Japan-Soviet Fishing Control Company, the Japanese Pelagic
Fishing Company and the Western Pacific Fishing Control Company — were
-208-
10 031 P23s bu

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.99)
formed by the merger and realignment of existing companies. 27/ The
new Northern Pacific Fishing Control Company and the Japan-Soviet
Fishing Control Company were both largely financed by the Nichiro
Fishery Company and the Japanese Pelagic Fishing Control Company was
largely financed by Japan Marine Products Company.
Although dreg net fishing by small boats, tuna and bonito fish-
ing and coastel fishing did not come under this reorganization, in
1943 it was reported that these were all to be reorganized under "a
central fishing federation." Information as to the way in which the
various societies and federations related to fishing were reorganized
is not available, but it is clear that all their activities were har-
nessed tightly into the government control. Thus production,
distribution and pricing were all government controlled.
2
The relation of these branch companies to such parent combines
as Mitsubishi and Mitsui is not known. For discussion of prewar
compenies and their relations to large industrial combines see
Section V.
-209
16-031 P239 nobu

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.97)
APPENDIZ A
DETAILS OF CANNED SALMON AND CANNED CRAB PRODUCTION
16-031 P241 nobu

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX A
DETAILS OF CANNED SALMON AND CANNED CRAB PRODUCTION
Tables 1 and 2 give the output of Japanese salmon cenneries by
districts for l936; the total of these two tables represents the entire
Japenese pack of 2,292,893 cases.
Tables 3 and 4 summarize Japanese production of canned salmon
and canred crab respectively over a period of years.
-210-
16-031 P243bu

=== Page 382 === (confidence 1.00)
TABLE 1
Japanese Canned Salmon Pack in Russien Area,
1936 a
Region
Approximate Cannery
Japanese Output
Location
(cases)
Olyutorka
9,212
Eastern
Tamlat
7,884
Kamchatka
Pankara
21,911
Uka
14,532
Ust-Kamchetka
198,842
Ozernaya
40,908
Yavina
80.749
Koshegochek
53,655
Opala
72,075
Bolsheretzk
145,134
Western
Utka
59,295
Kamchatka
Pimta
43,276
Kakhta
107,574
Vorovskaya
106,908
Kompakova
45,725
Krutogorov
29,761
Oblukovina
14,744
Icha
15,684
Sopochinaya
15,287
Utkoroka
814
Palana
261
Okhotsk
10,566
1,094,797
Source: "The Fishing Industry of Japan," Office of Strategic
Services report, June 1942.
In addition to the Japanese pack, the Russians packed 595,044
cases fron their cenneries in this area.
-211-
18-031 P244 bu

=== Page 383 === (confidence 1.00)
TABLE
Japanese Canned Salmon Pack of Japan Proper, Karafuto, the Kuriles
and Floating Canneries, 1936
District
Name
Number of Can-
Grand Total
neries Operated
(Full Cases)
TOOHOKU
Inai Zenhachi & Co.
1
1,850
Chi ba Kanzume
1
7,526
Wakai Kanzume
1
22,776
Wakai Zenzo
1
96
Daito Shokuhin
1
45,127
Neichi Kanejiro
1
29,841
Uhara Genshiro
1
327
Kubo & Co.
1
2,002
Yamaji Masaichi
1
1,198
Maru (S) Suisan
1
4,020
Sakagami Tatsuzo
1
21,402
Mikami & Co.
1
8,379
Shimogoori Kanzo
1
388
Mori Shin Kanzume
1
697
Suzurikd Kanzume
1
15,157
Habuchi
1
505
Maguro Kanzume
Sasaki Eiichi
1
1,380
Takahashi Kan zume
1
346
Total
Toohoku
18
163,017
HOKKAIDO
Iwasa Tatsuo
1
120
I zumi Katsuhei
1
870
Inai Kanzume
1
1,534
Hakodate Kanzume
1
501
Hokuch Sangyo
1
2,451
Hokkaido Gyogyo Kanzume
1
Wakai Zenzo
1
31,954
Yoshida Toshinori
1
373
Tanaka Kichiji
1
167
Daido Suisan
1
58,977
Takagi Yoshimatsu
1
757
Hokkai Suisan
(a)
1
232
Usui Gomei
1
355
Kushiro Kan zume
1
608
Yamazaki Kumataro
1
1,198
New Canneries
-212-
16-031 P245 bu

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 2 (Continued)
Japanese Canned Salmon Pack of Japan Proper, Karafuto, the
Kuriles and Floating Canneries, 1936
District
Name
Number of Can-
Grand Total
neries Operated
(Full Cases)
Yamamoto Kuninosuke
1
768
Matsuda Kanzume
1
2,056
Kyokuto Kanzume
1
1,116
Ki tanihon Kanzume
1
129
Taiheiyo Godo
1
1,436
Hokuyo Kanzume
1
816
Miyagi Gyogyo
1
14,878
Kokko Kanzume
1
670
Neichi Kanejiro
1
5,480
Total
Hokkaido
24
127,446
KARAFUTO
Kato Kanzume
1
2,016
Karafuto Sangyo
1
137
Karafuto Kyodo
2
8,573
Karafuto Gyogyo Kanzume
1
3,895
Kondo Kanzume
1
1,500
Akasaka Ichisaburo
1
20
Karafuto Suisan Kogyo
(b)
1
2,327
Katagawa & Co.
1
578
Total
Karafuto
9
19,046
ETROFU
Toho Suisan
1
11,044
Usui Gomei
1
3,980
Etrofu Suisan
1
23,839
Suhara Gyogyo
3
37,502
Higashi Etrofu Gyogyo
(c)
1
973
To tal
Etrofu
7
77,338
KITA-CHISHIMA
(Kuriles)
Hakama Shinichiro
1
32,360
Hayashikane & Co.
1
60,212
Horomushiro Suisan
1
131,747
Hokkaido Gyogyo Kanzume
1
77,962
New Canneries
-213-
16 031 P246 bu

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 2 (Continued)
Japanese Canned Salmon Pack of Japan Proper, Karafuto, the
Kuriles and Floating Canneries, 1936
District
Name
Number of Can-
Grand To tal
neries Operated
(Full Cases)
Toho Suisan
1
14,579
Chishima Gyogyo
1
14,711
Taiheiyo Gyogyo (Kataoka-wan)
1
58,200
Fujino Kanzume
2
57,321
Kita-Chishima Godo Gyogyo
1
47,640
Kita-Chishima Gyogyo Unso
1
34,977
To tal Ki ta-
Chishima
11
529,709
FLOATING
CANNERIES
Taiheiyo Gyogo
3
281,540
GRAND TOTAL
72
1,198,096
Source: "The Fishing Industry of Japan," Office of Strategic
Services report, June 1942.
-214-
18-031 P247 nobu

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.94)
L3
Japanese Canned Salmon  ck, 1930 - 1940
(Cases of 48 pounds)
Packed in
panese Cerritor
Facked 
Ploating Canmerice
Total Pack of Japanese Interests
Reds
Firks
Chun
Silver.
21,5
TotaI
kel.
Finks
Chan silvers
Kinrs Total
odr
Pirks
Chun
Silvers
Kin's
Total
Reds
Pinks
Chum
Silvers
Kings
Totar
1930
10,743
339,21
125
35),1.
13,1)
2,345 1,5
200 43,705 552,571 542,073 11,758
PE,858
1,195,77
576,924
910,509 13,253
88,858 260 1,589,834
1931
4,055
391,721
16
375,712
33,217
7,13022,95
210 (2,478 442,005 184,942 1,050
47,9105,177
701,084
499,327
578,793 23,085
52,152 5,987 1,159,354
1732
26,493
150,682
177,171
59,276
6,669
3,333
176
604 70,030 414,24 712,069
30,332 6,7F3 1,163,478
500,079
969,420 3,333
30,510 7,387 1,410,729
1933
105,403
497,90614,370 5,07
622,75
71,333
51,48
6,2
462
119 150,168 286,915 357,593
22
24,095 2,518 671,043
483,601
907,407 20,686 29,634 2,637 1,443,967
1934
267,748
315,730 9,517 25,
15
619,914 239,976
17,253
3,P39
6,350
333 272,751 503,428 837,306 19,054
26,633 2,500 1,358,921
1,011,052 1,170,489 37,410 58,892 3,648 2,291,491
1935
74,733
1,009,942 12,16044
4.1 1,153,775 138,156
165.558
594 313,977 188,304 67,472
41,2227,862 916.960
401,193 1,854,972 19,160 100,340.8,947 2,384,612
1936
234,090
526,674
2514,543 1,944
916,556 223,472
31,1
76,124
293 281,540 338, 185 638,935
1,314 106,307 2,256 1,094,797
796,547 1,197,290 10,599 276,974 11,493 2,292,893
1937
327,143
557,142
50 90,24 1,241
766,670 340,550
14,659
12,925
355 368,502 337,271 735,053
81,300 1,073,6321,004,9641,30,864
850 93,230 2,896 2,408,804
21
1938
363,843
3)E,689
49 75,57
775
708,945 279,532
24,372
10,269
227 314,570 440, 05 729,530
26,698 2,290 1,198,533 1,083,310 1,112,591
49 112,554 3,465 2,312,048
15
1939
230,184
457,005
57 37,551
129
724,926 352,012
20,305
5,150
187 378,954 290,299 826,360
20
17,025
(25 1,124,329 862,495 1,304,170
77 60,526 94 2,228,209
1940g/
506,910
-302,32
973,5394/616,97341,079,546
86,557a/- 1,783,081
Source: Pacific Fishert Ycarhook, 1941.
a/ ro statistics for av libl direct frem Japanese sources. The fi ures shom, which do not indicate the details of pack in various districts, were obtained indirectly
Eut are telieved to  fairly accurate. According to consular report dated April 4, 1941, the total figure given here does not include output of Hokkaido and Etorofu. If
these are included the 1940 pck was arout 1,925,000 cases.
b/ The 1937 and 1939 pacl figures giver. here re sligntly different fron those in Table 46. (pge 131).
/ The entire Japanese output of Kanchatka is normall, packed in recent ears by Nichiro syogyo K. K.

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
4
Japanese Canned King Crabmeat Pack by Districts, 1930 - 1939
(Cases of 48 Pounds)
Japan Prop-
Kamchatka,
Nemuro and
North
er and
North Sea
Floating
Riahiri
Kitami
South Tisima
Tisime
Karafuto
Korea
Kushiro
Fisheries
Canneries
Total
1930
7,000
24,269
8,800
63,491
1,200
73,150
407,542
585,452
-216-
1931
11,872
27,395
8,503
57,112
2,000
64,133
240,207
411,222
1932
21,000
20,400
27,200
1.000
47,353
180,340
297,353
1933
5,647
44,074
49,494
5,614
30,762
725
9,925
24,769
153,696
324,706
1934
8,462
51,533
92,561
8,511
45,328
882
37,485
29,155
171,012
444,929
1935
859
25,511
93,840
19,005
42,982
2,556
35,581
35,857
172,744
428,935
1936
453
13,128
53,162
36,53
19,169
252
25,491
47,089
185,506
380,783
1937
12,126
52,670
58,248
28,833
124
24,190
80,119
210,728
467,038
1938
31,425
44,597
89,453
42,780
12
15,275
83,179
264,956
551,677
1939
29,228
33,351
75,970
62,300
77,580
214,299
492.728
Sourc:
Pacific Fisherman Yearbook, 1940
16-
031
P251
nobu

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX B
JAPANESE TRADE STATISTICS FOR FISH AND FISHERY PRODUCTS
1B-031 P253 nobu

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX B
JAPANESE TRADE STATISTICS FOR FISH AND FISHERY PRODUCTS
These tables from the recent U. S. Tariff Commission report,
"Japanese Trade Studies — Special Industry Analysis No. 27 — Marine
Products" provide the statistics cited in the section on foreign
trade.
-217-
16·031 P255 bu

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1
Exports of Marine Producte from Japan to All Areas,
in Specified Years, 1928 to 1938 a
Item
1928
1932
1936
1938
Quantity (10c kin)
Formosa:
Fish, shellfish, molluscs, and
b
b
b/
b/
other aquatic products
Korea:
Fish:
Dried
86,196
118,322
147,399
102,258
Salted
72,686
44,918
132,059
201,347
Other
26,630
39,344
112,586
117,262
Seaweed, including tangles
22,076
15,267
22,560
44,489
Total Korea
207,588
217,851
464,604
465,356
Other countries:
Fish and shellfish:
Fresh or frozen c
66,420
70,277
180,978
280,435
Canned:
Fish
54,755
319,435
1,220,237 1,523,000
Shellfish
239,836
147,633
204,550
187,619
Dried or boiled and dried
281,106
115,433
273,933
146,233
Salted
76,003
39,867
251,208
278,719
Other marine products:
Meal, fish
a
a/
1,124,739
675,050
Seaweed (isinglass, laver, tangles)466, 523
646,590
605,187
432,377
Shells and coral
236
97
129
19,145
Total other countries
1,184,8791,339,288 3,860,961
3,542,578
Value (1, 000 yen)
Formosa:
Fish, shellfish, molluscs, and
other aquatic products
9,292
6,934
8,730
9,305
Korea:
Fish:
Dried
1,554
1,528
2,722
2,395
Salted
817
330
1,326
2,102
Other
868
835
1,987
3,294
Seaweed, including tangles
387
351
549
951
Total Korea
3,626
3,044
6,584
8,743
-218-
16031 P256 bu

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 1 (Continued)
Exports of Marine Products from Japan to All Areas,
in Specified Ymars, 1928 to 1938 a/
Item
1928
1932
1936
1938
Value (1, 000 yen)
Other countries:
Fish and shellfish:
Fresh or frozen c/
1,889
1,396
3,776
6,697
Canned:
Fish
1,536
8,749
41,430
54,514
Shellfish
18,573
10,750
18,326
17,086
Dried or boiled and dried
11,643
3,724
12,040
8,456
Salted
712
386
2,573
3,332
Other marine products:
Meal, fish
a/
a
7,434
5,182
Seaweed (isinglass, laver, tangles)
7,262
5,408
9,723
9,630
Shells and coral
218
68
217
1,586
Total other countries
41,833
30,481
95,519
106,483
Grand total
54,751
40,459
110,833
124,530
1 kin equals .6 kilogram or 1.32 pounds.
a Does not include fish oils (including whale). Also excluded are canned
fish and shellfish exported directly from the Kamchatkan fisheries opera-
ted by Japan and not reported in official statistics.
b/ Value only given.
c Excludes goldfish and fish livers, which in l939 were valued at
10,000 yen end 6,047,000 yen, respectively.
a Not separately reported.
-219-
18-031 P257 bu

=== Page 392 === (confidence 1.00)
18-031
258
bu
TABLE
2
Exports of Canned Salmon and Trout from Japen to Principal Markets, in Specified
Years, 1928 to 1938 a/
Country of
destination
1928
1932
1936
1938
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1,000 yen
Belgium
2,996
70
26,351
506
38,399
927
36,758
909
France
4,459
114
92,798
1,759
54,114
1,653
45,584
1,544
-220-
Netherlands
621
18
5,569
107
21,685
590
24,482
643
United Kingdom
20,509
571
54,522
2,109
353,535
21,853
578,417
30,409
Manchuria
b/
96
1
875
16
14,911
333
Australia
1,351
38
553
24
11,794
476
31,846
1,656
Other countries
11,052
287
28,883
533
54,685
1,423
123,116
2,968
Total
40,988
1,098
208,672
5,039
535,087
26,938
855,114
38,462
1 kin equals .6 kilogram or 1.32 pounds
a
Does not include exports of the Japanese fishery operating in Kamchatka.
b
Not available.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
3
Exports of Canned Crab from Japan to Principal Markets, in
Specified Years, 1923 to 1933 a
Country
1928
1932
1936
1938
of
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quentity
Value
Quantity
Value
Destination
100
kin
1.000
100 kin
1,000
100 kin
1,000
100 kin
1,000
yen
yen
yen
yen
United States
134,641 10,488
60,758
4,534
82,217
8,391
68,918
7,515
France
4,629
340
19,772
1,369
6,740
778
1,351
127
United
Kingdom
76,811
5,977
49,628
3,653
57,421
5,740
46,350
4,786
Manchuria
b
b1
7
c/
226
14
336
26
Other
countries
23,755
1,768
17,468
1,194
24,778
2,277
27,559
2,790
To tal
239,836 18,573 147,633
10,750
171,382 17,200
144,514
15,244
1 kin equals .6 kilogram cr 1.32 pounds.
a/ Does not include exports of the Japenese fishery operating in Kamchatka which
vould bring exports considerably higher than shown here.
Not separateiy reyorted.
c
Less than 500 yen.
-221-
16 03. P250 10

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
Exports of Canned Sardines from Japen to Prircipel Markets,
1936 and 1938 a
1936
1938
Country of Destiration
Quantity
Value
Quentity
Value
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1.000 yen
Europe:
Belgium
17,454
270
15,081
267
Germany
301
7
Greece
848
28
United Kingdom
17,055
262
17,880
329
Africa:
Egypt
2,359
50
4,716
95
Asia:
British India
74,399
1,107
1,452
24
Burma
38,358
531
China
586
1C
13,261
302
Kwantung
3,568
56
13,133
276
Manchuria
1,333
19
7,798
166
Netherlands Irdies
98,406
1,417
94,011
1,541
Philippine Islands
110,022
1,586
74,462
1,290
Straits Settlements
68,625
990
16,392
292
Other countries b/
105.504
1.715
127,339
2,396
Totel
499,311
7,482
425,032
7,544
1 kin equels .6 kilogram or 1.32 pounds.
auces and oils.
b
Includes some countries in the above continent groups.
-222-
16-C31 P260 bu

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.99)
TAFLE
5
Exports of Canred Tuna Fish from Japan to Principal Markets, 1934, 1936 and 1938
1934
1936
1938
Country of destination
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1,
000 yen
100 kin
1,000 yen
Canada
2,124
112
9,953
521
10,652
492
United States
55,063
3,152
51,838
3,206
43,226
2,807
Belgium
2,191
138
4,291
249
2,922
134
Manchuria
16
a
143
3
1,420
29
Other countries
10,130
446
15,190
674
16,727
605
Total
69,524
3,848
81,415
4,653
74,947
4,067
a
Less
than 500 yen.
2
2
TABLE
6
3
Exports of Salted Fish from Japen to Principal Merkets in Specified Yeare, 1928 to 1938
1928
1932
1936
1938
Country of destination
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
000 yen
100 kin
1
000
yen
100
kin
OC0 ye
United States (in-
cludes Hawail)
2,527
66
6,508
80
7,773
119
3,853
76
China
8
27,926
a
232
10,859
09
160,143
1457
82,492
1,030
Hong Kong
26,250
210
51
b
12,011
116
5
b
Kwantung
18,624
187
20,549
182
63,629
713
168,519
1,936
Manchuria
c
c
1,080
8
1,634
18
22,573
225
Other countries
676
17
820
17
6,018
150
1,277
65
Total
76,003
712
39,867
386
251,208
2,573
278,719
3,332
16
03
a
Includes Manchuria.
1
b
Less than 500 yen.
P261
Included with Chine.
bu
1 kin equals .6 kilogren or 1.32 pounde.

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.99)
TAELE
7
Exports of Fish and Shellfish, Dried, or Boiled and Dried, from Japan to
Principel Markets in Specified Years, 1928 to 1938
1928
1932
1936
1938
Country of destination
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1, 000 ven
100 kin
1,000 ven
100 kin
1,000 yen
United States a
23,868
1,135
18,950
584
13,576
484
11,302
683
China
b
32,821
b/
2,346
22,892
763
61,540
2,709
43,663
1,985
Hong Kong
163,495
5,083
17,530
546
61,978
2,257
3,622
130
Kwantung
9,965
981
23,406
879
37,208
2,198
56,949
4,260
-224-
Manchuria
c/
c
352
10
3,510
129
9,475
404
Netherlands Indies
113
12
452
32
438
52
164
11
Philippine Islands
5,694
171
8,802
113
26,619
480
8,902
246
Straits Settlements
23,203
788
4,901
174
45,106
2,385
597
39
Thailand
1,005
43
5,061
134
2,727
154
173
14
Other countries
21,542
1,084
13,087
489
21,181
1,192
11,386
684
Total
281,106
11,643
115,433
3,724
273,933
12,040
146,233
8,456
1 kin equals .6 kilogram. or 1.32 pounds.
a
Principally Hawaii.
Includes Menchuria.
c
Included with China.

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE
8
Exports of Fish Meal from Japan to Principal
Markets, 1936 and 1938
1936
1938
Country of destination
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
100 kin
1,000 yen
100 kin
1.000 yen
United States
779,694
5,027
332,415
2,590
Germany
280,347
1,975
172,589
1,246
Netherlands
10,964
86
38,395
330
United Kingdom
13,882
132
Other countries
53,734
346
117,769
884
Total
1,124,739
7,434
675,050
5,182
1 kin equals .6 kilogram or 1.32 pounds.
-225-
16-031 P263 bu

=== Page 398 === (confidence 1.00)
TABLE
9
Exports of Seaweeds from Japan to Principal Markets in Specified Years, 1928 to 1938
Item and country
1928
1932
1936
1938
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
Quantity
Value
100 kin
1,
000 yen
100 kin
000 yen
100 kin
000 yen
100 kdn
1,000 yen
Isinglass, vegetable
(agar-agar):
United States
2,959
603
3,309
537
4,928
998
4,465
1,152
Frence
3,935
754
2,883
421
4,093
739
3,325
601
Germany
2,984
537
3,517
579
2,571
542
4,483
1,201
United Kingdom
1,340
257
1,849
315
4,057
768
2,213
574
China
1,601
306
1,017
93
861
136
780
183
Manchuria
59
12
206
1
126
24
1,051
196
Netherlands Indies
2,764
569
3,623
448
2,501
441
1,221
285
Other countries
5,855
1,104
4,970
771
10,349
1,926
7,817
2,009
Total
21,497
4,142
21,374
3,165
29,486
5,574
25,355
6,201
Laver:
United States
387
156
525
106
636
151
522
149
-226-
China
432
a
40
186
13
677
47
1,732
181.
Kwantung
290
68
587
87
1,354
184
3,367
333
Manchuria
b
b
9
1
450
51
1,303
88
Other countries
250
38
143
23
509
66
226
40
Total
1,359
302
1,450
230
3,626
499
7,150
791
Tangles and sliced tangles:
China
306,739
1,912
477,584
1,424
162,412
2,883
121,471
775
Kwantung
114,769
701
104,246
399
74,542
471
241,872
1,488
Manchuria
8,860
52
36,165
109
22,170
133
33,070
255
Other countries
13,299
153
5,771
81
312,951
163
3,459
120
Total
443,667
2,818
623,766
2,013
572,075
3,650
399,872
2,638
Grand Total
446,523
7,262
646,590
5,408
605,187
9,723
432,377
9,630
1 kin equals .6 kilogram or 1.32 pounds.
a
Includes Manchuria.
Included with China.

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE
10
Exports of Fresh Fish and Shellfish from' Japan to Principal Markets,
By Types in Specified Years, 1928 to 1938 a/
Year and item
United
Other
States
b
Chinac/
Kwantung
countries
Total
Quantity (100 kin)
1928:
Fish and shellfish
34,977
18,939
10,764
1,740
66,420
1932:
Fish and shellfish
31,566
8,426
25,335
4,906
70,233
1936:
Bonito and tuna
21,198
95
7,207
5
28,505
Oysters
31,599
125
48
155
31,927
Other fish and
shellfish
75,293
6,486
37,154
1,613
120,546
To tal
128,090
6,706
44,409
1,773
180,978
1938:
Bonito and tune
35,716
7,755
4,787
593
48,851
Oysters
2,020
130
16
2,166
Scallops (hotatekai)
4,636
581
5
313
5,535
Other fish and
shellfish
57,567
97,955
66,564
1.797
223,883
Total
99,939
106,421
71,372
2,703
280,435
Value (1, 000 yen)
1928:
Fish and shellfish
1,094
475
279
41
1,889
1932:
Fish and shellfish
683
199
357
157
1,396
1936:
Bonito and tuna
387
2
227
a
616
Oysters
324
1
a
326
Other fish and
shellfish
2,081
86
609
58
2,834
To tal
2,792
89
836
59
3,776
1938:
Bonito and tuna
696
185
131
21
1,033
Oysters
24
1
a
25
Scallops (hotatekai)
223
20
10
253
Other fish and
shellfish
2,034
2,172
1,082
98
5,386
Total
2,977
2,373
1,213
129
6,697
1 kin equals .6 kilogram or 1.32 pounds.
a Does not include fish livers which were not separately reported prior
to 1939. During that year the exports of fish livers were 4,167, 000 kin
valued at 6,047, 000 yen almost all going to the United States.
b/
Includes negligible exports to Hawaii.
c
Includes insignificant exports to Manchuria.
Less than 500 ycn.
-227-
16-031 P265 Du

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 11
Imports of Marine Products into Japan fron All Areas in Specified
Years, 1928 to 1938 
Item
1928
1932
1936
1938
Quantity (100 kin)
Formosa b
77,920
87,197
c
c
Korea a
1,796,759
2,183,766
2,835,417
6,233,756
Other countries:
Fish salted
343,200
1,048,186
136,269
126,121
Other fish and shellfish
e
e
e
e/
Inedible products f/
219,568
368,610
247,372
63,935
Value (1, 000 yen)
Formosa b
3,599
1,965
3,391
2,391
Korea d/
23,614
17,986
28,850
46,400
Other countries:
Fish salted
3,242
9,831
1,449
1,174
Other fish and shellfish
1,747
7,498
1,411
468
Inedible products f/
3,665
3,169
4,729
1,687
Total
35,867
40,449
39,830
52,120
1 kin equals .6 kilograms or 1.32 pounds.
a Does not include fish oils (including whele) which are covered
in a trade study entitled Fats, Oils and Cil-Bearing Materials.
b Includes fish, shellfish, molluscs and all aquatic products
except salt, corals, and shells.
c
Not available.
See Table 12.
0
Value only given.
L
Includes shells, sponges and fish guano.
-228-
16 031 P266 bu

=== Page 401 === (confidence 1.00)
TABLE
12
Imports into Japan from Korea of Marine Products in Specified Years, 1928 to 1940 a
Item
1928
1932
1934
1935
1936
1938
1940
Quantity (100 kin)
Fish:
Fresh or frozen
668,148
947,931
811.771
805,129
566,796
840.475
543,690
Canned b/
14,366
22,064
43,480
59,039
43,556
31,302
49,487
Dried
152,583
201,394
195,329
162,899
96,036
159,835
223,689
Salted
96,134
52,767
87,132
85,860
64,657
54,262
148,717
Roe
17,990
34,257
45,912
43,550
39,077
47,947
78,596
Shellfish:
Fresh or frozen
10,922
8,093
23,534
38,736
24,450
12,194
15,814
Dried:
Shrimp and prawn
21,421
10,069
18,950
27,360
34,388
35,038
29,333
Other dried shellfish
11,037
6,664
14,758
15,887
8,951
1,579
5,046
-229-
Whale meat
67,022
27,928
19,036
28,227
17,123
29,617
15,455
Seaweed:
Isinglass, vegetable
160
266
153
267
371
413
220
Porphyra
8,842
10,593
14,578
10,663
28,294
27,305
31,479
Other seaweed
42,403
38,113
35,667
46,431
42,263
35,554
34,605
Byproducts:
Fish:
Dried for fertilizer
7,146
15,481
6,096
6,341
8,001
10,998
22,814
Meal
c
c/
77,364
261,914
216,867
911,100
929,304
Refuse
678,585
808,146
854,136 1,505,268 1,644,787
4.036,137 1,443.146
Total
1,796,759 2,183,766 2,247,896 3,097,571 2,835,417 6,233,756 3,571,395
Value (1,000 yen)
Fish:
Fresh or frozen
6,273
4,650
5,317
5,202
4,174
6,818
7,945
Canned
510
468
1,011
1,572
1,071
866
2,102
Dried
4,895
4,337
5,543
4,454
3,441
5,159
11,147
16-031
Salted
910
462
842
712
669
687
2,876
Roe
527
830
1,101
1,108
1,064
1,575
3,269
P267
bu

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.99)
TA-031 P268
bu
TABLE 12 (Contimued)
Imports into Japan from Korea of Marine Products in Specified Years, 1928 to 1940 a
Item
1928
1932
1934
1935
1936
1938
1940
Value (1,000 yen)
Shellfish:
Fresh or frozen
135
116
246
400
302
193
493
Dried:
Shrimp and prawn
513
179
319
470
702
938
1,439
Other dried shellfish
488
164
408
624
348
68
409
Whale meat
628
175
138
288
153
303
255
Seaweed:
-230-
Isinglass, vegetable
30
40
22
36
71
92
119
Porphyra
2,586
2,086
3,839
2,121
3,969
6,558
16,057
Other seaweed
1,500
912
1,035
1,603
1,745
1,408
2,775
Byproducts:
Fish:
Dried for fertilizer
46
66
26
35
43
68
398
Meal
c
c
328
1,583
1,402
6,846
16,148
Refuse
4,573
3,501
4,099
7,620
9,696
14,821
22,262
Total
23,614
17,986
24,074
27,828
28,850
46,400
87,694
1 kin equals .6 kilogram cr 1.32 pounds.
Does not include fish ails (including whale).
Reported in dozens of cans. Converted to lo0 kin on an estimabed basis of 1 pound per can and
132.277 pounds per kin.
c Not separately classified prior to.1933.

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.98)
TABLE 13
Japanese Trade in Marine Oils, 1937 and 1938 (1,000 pounds)
Imports
a/
1937
1938
Fish oil
75,194
87,311
Whale oil
422
481
Totel b/
75,616
87,792
Exports
1937
1938
Cod oil
8,341
2,819
Sharks liver oil
11,756
11,068
Sardine oil
82,808
35,554
Other fish oil
13,123
7,353
Whale oil
5,099
227
Hardened fish oil
67,987
43,728
Total
189,114
100,749
Source: "Japanese Trade Studies - Special Industry Analysis
No. 15 - Fats, Oils and Oil Bearing Materials, " U. S. Tariff
Commission, May 1945.
a All imports were from Korea; imports from other areas were
amall and not listed separately.
b/ In addition hardened fis! oil wns ixported largely from
Korea. Total hardened oil imported was 43,196 pounds in 1937
and 32, 602 pounds in 1938. Total imports of marine o1ls were
probably 100,000 - 120,000 pounds.
c/ Exports were chiefly to European countries.
-231-
16-031 P280 nobu

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX C
LAWS AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO FISHERIES
16-031 P271 nobu

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.99)
APPMDIX C
LAWS AID REGULATIONS RELATING TO FISHERIES
The basic law dealing with fisheries is the Fishery Law of 190l,
the text of vhich is given below.
Fishery Law of 1901
Section 1. In this law the ord "fishery" means the catching or culti-
vation for profit of aquatic fauna and flora.
The word "fisherman" means one who engages in or possesses
the privilege of fishery.
Section 2. This law does not apply to private waters except where
expressly so provided.
Section 3. Any person desirous of obtaining the right to fish (a) either
by establishing any fized gear in a fixed position, (b) or by enclosing
a particular area of water should obtain a Government license; the Minister
of the Department shall determine the kinds of fishery requiring special
licenses.
Section 4. A Government license must also be obtained for the exclusive
right of fishing within a given area. Such license shall only be granted
on the application of a fishermen's society (gyogyo-kumiai) intending
to use for such exclusive right the shore of the locality where such
soclety is established, or in cases where such right has acquired the
sanction of long usage.
Section 5. The license mentioned in Section 4 shall determine the limits
of the fishery when granted to a society or shall recite such limits when
granted in accordance with long usage.
Section 6. Licenses shall not exceed 20 years duration, but periods of
suspension under Section 9 shall be excluded in determining the expiring
of the license.
Section 7. Rights of fishery may be the subject of inheritance, assign-
ment, coamon property, or mortgage, but the transfer of exclusive use of
an area of the sea can only be sanctioned by the authorities.
Section 8. The right of fishery may be cancelled when such right is not
exercised within one year of the issue of license, or except on special
-232-
16-031 P273 bu

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.99)
sanction, where a fishery has not been carried on for two whole years.
But suspensions under Section 9 shall not be taken into count in the
above periods.
Section 9. The authorities may limit, suspend, or cancel any fishery
license when required for the protection of aquatic products or by the
public interests, or when a fisherman breeks this law or the regulations
issued thereon.
Section 10. Owmers of land shall not hinder entry on their land or the
use thereof when so required for establishing marks for fixing the boundaries
or bearings of fishing grounds, provided that the sanctions of the author-
ities shall have been duly obtained.
Section ll. The authorities may order the establishment of such fishing
marks.
Section l2. Any loss or damage caused by the entry or use of private land
as mentioned in Section l0 shall be paid for upon a claim being made.
Section 13. With the sanction of the Minister of the Department pre-
fecturs may issue orders on the following matters:
(1) The linitation or prohibition of catching and selling
marine products;
(2) The limitation or prohibition of particular methods of
catching or using boats or implements;
(3) Limitation of the number of fishermen engaged in a
fishery, or fixing their qualifications;
(4) Limitation or prohibition of the discharge into the
water of substances injurious to aquatic products.
Where such orders are violated all fishing implements and
the products fished shall be liable to confiscation.
Section l4. The Minister may limit or prohibit the placing or building
in any particular locality of any constructfon thet may interfere with a
passage of fish up a river.
He may also order the modification of any such existing
construction.
Section 15. In cases falling under the second paragraph of Section 14
compensation shall be payable by the Minister, such compensation being
recoverable from any fisherman upon whose application the modification
was ordered.
Section l6. The three preceding sections shall be applicable to private
waters when such water communicate with public waters.
-233-
16-031 P274 bu

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.99)
Section 17. Not translated.
Section 18. The fishermen residing within definite limits may, with the
sanction of the authorities, forn a fishermen's society (gyogyo-kumiai):
the territorial limits of the society shall be definite sections or
hamlets of a town, village or fishermen's quarters. In Hokkaido the
limits may extend to those of a county.
Section 19. Such fishermen's society shall be the owners of the fishery
rights and privileges in the given locality, but shall not itself (that
is quê society) conduct fishing operations.
Section 20. When such society has obtained a license for the exclusive
use of the sea adjoining its place of habitation, it shall cause its
individual members to conduct the fishery on rules laid down by the
society.
Section 21. The Minister of the Depertment shall issue regulations for
the establishment, management, and supervision of fishermen's societies.
Section 22. Fishermen or persons engaged in the manufacture or sale of
fishery products may establish an aquatic products society (suisan-kumiai)
or fishery guild for the improvement and development of fisheries, for
the protection and cultivation of marine products or for increasing the
advantages derived from the industry. Such societies shall be regulated
by the Law for Industrial Associations (Juyo-bussan-dogyc-kumiai).
Section 23. Anyone to whom the issue or modification of a fishery license
has been refused or who may consider himself agerioved by any decision
under Sections 8 or 9 or peragraph 2 of Section 14 may present an objection
petition to the authorities.
Any persons aggrieved by the decision on such objection
petition may appeal to the Civil Courts.
Section 24. Any person considering himself injured by the wrongful issue
of a license or by a wrongful modification thereof may file suit in the
Civil Courts.
Section 25. In case of disputes between fishermen as to the boundaries
of fishing grounds or the limits of any fishing rights or methods, the
parties may apply to the local authorities for the decision of such
dispute. Either party may sue in the Civil Courts against such decision.
Section 26. Any person fishing without a license in cases where license
i required or during any period of suspension of such license or in
-234-
16-031 P275 bu

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.99)
contravention of the conditions or limits settled by such license, shall
be liable to fine, and to the confiscation of all fishing gear employed
in such illicit fishing and of the products thereof.
Section 27. The owmer or possessor of the right of fishery shall be
held. responsible for the acts of his employees, and penalties due under
Section 26 shall be levied upon him.
Section 28. Any person trespassing upon rights of fishery conferred by
Sections 3 and 4 shall be liable to fine upon the complaint of the owner
or possessor of the rights trespassed upon.
Section 29. Anyone destroying or removing marks denoting a fishing
ground shall be liable to fine.
The above law was supplemented by 75 sections of regulations
issued by the Government for the due carrying out of the law.
Major Laws and Ordinances
Listed below in chronological order are important laws and
ordinances dealing with the fisheries. The provisions of some of these
have been mentioned in the report.
1897
Pelagic Fishing Encouragement Act. This act provided
bounties to those engaged in pelagic fishing under
specified conditions and provided for the training of
officers and fishermen for pelagic fishing. Amended
1n 1905.
1901
Fishery Law as given above. Amended in 1910 and 1933.
1905
Amendment to Pelagic Fishing Encouragement Act extended
the bounties to persons engaged in handling or trans-
porting marine catches and to proprietors of vessels
with certain types of motors and equipment.
1910
Amendment of Fishory Law. Provisions not available.
1921
Ministerial Ordinance No. 31 required that permission be
obtained from prefectures for trawling operations.
-235-
16-031 P276 bu

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
1921
Suisan-kai Law providing for the establishment of
fishery societies (suisan-kai).
1922
Central Wholesale Marketing Law.
1923
Ordinance providing for the control and limit of
floating crab caneries.
1924
Trawl fishing placed under special control.
1929
Ordinance providing for the control of floating salmon
canneries.
1933
Revision of the Fishery Law of 190l which extended the
scope of the villege fishermen's societies and their
cooperetives. Ccoperatives were permitted to handle
sales and make purchases for their members as well as
to undertake banking functions. Fishermen's societies
were granted exemotions from certain taxes and were
protected against competition from trawlers and large
seines operated by corporations and wealthy individuals.
1934
Trawler Control Law limited the nuaber of trawlers per-
mitted to operete in Japanese waters.
1934
Export Fisheries Control Law provided for reguletion of
exports of marine products.
1936
Fish Meal Export Control Law.
1937
Fishing Boat Insurance Act.
1939
New licensing system established for canneries.
1940
Ordinance further centralized the control of canned
products by requiring all sales through special sales
organizations.
-236-
18·031 P277 nobu

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.96)
APPENDIX D
LARGE JAPANESE FISHERY COMPANIES AS OF 1940 OR 1941
16~031 P279 nobu

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX D
LARGE JAPANESE FISHERY COMPANIES AS OF 194O OR 1941
(Capitel in 1,000 yen)
Borneo Suisan K. K. - Seiwai Blag., Uchisaiwai-cho, Kojimachi-ku, Tokyo.
Est. Dec. 1933. Cap. 2, 500 (1, 400 p.u.) Rep.-Dir. K. Ueki.
Branches: Tawao, Borneo, Bonito Fishing in Sulu and Celebes Seas
of British North Borneo.
Daito Gyogyo K. K. - 358 Hon-machi, Kochi City, Kochi-ken. Est. 1907.
Cap. 800. Rep.-Dir. K. Nakagawa.
Fusan Suisan K. K. - 76 Ohashi-dori 3-chome, Fusan, Korea. Est. 1907.
Cap. 2, O00 (1, OlO p.u.). Pres. G. Kashi: Mng. Dir. G. Zetaya.
Engaged in aquatic industry.
Godo Gyogyo K. K. - Otaru City, Hokkaido. Est. 1931. Cap. 9, 686 (p.u.).
Pres. Y. Mitsui. Herring fish in Hokkaido waters.
Hayashikane Shoten K. K. - 61, Takezaki-cho, Shimonoseki City. Est. 1924.
Cap. 15, O00. Pres. I. Nakabe: Sr. Mng. Dir. K. Nakabe: Jr. Mng. Dirs.
Kenkichi Nakabe, E. Nakabe: Dirs. K. Ariyoshi, Y. Nakabe, etc.
Headquarters, Shimonoseki. Branches: Tokyo and 45 other places.
Einode Gyogyo K. K. - Gyogyo-Umetatchi, Shimonoseki City, Est. 1934.
Cap. 1,O00 (640 p.u.). Pres. R. Masui: Mng. Dir. I. Ishimaru.
Fishing by trawlers in Yellow Sea and China, Formosa, Kyushu, Korean
waters.
Karafuto Kyodo Gyogyo K. K. - 7 Sakae-machi Hondori 2-chome, Odomari-machi,
Karefuto. Est. 1932. Cap. 5, 260 (p.u.) Rep.-Dir. T. Hiratsuka.
Kyokuyo Hogei K. K. - Marunouchi Bldg. Marunouchi, Tokyo. Est. 1937.
Cap. 20, 000 (15,000 p.v.). Pres. T. Yamaji; Mng. Dirs. Y. Ota,
J. Ishizeki. Whaling and Marine Transportation.
Nishixan Gyoeyo (Fishery Co.), Ltd. - 1 Tokiwamachi, Dairen. Est. 1934.
Cap. 1, OoO (p.u.). Rep.-Dir. S. Minoda: Jr. Mng. Dir. S. Egima.
-237-
16-031 P281 bu

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
Nichiro Gyogyo K. K. (Nichiro or Russo-Japenese Fishery Co., Ltd.) -
2 Marunouchi 2-chome, Kojimachi-ku, Tokyc. Est. 1914. Cap. 53,800
(42,300 p.u.). Pres. T. Hiratsuka; Vice Pres. S. Shindo; Sr. Mng.
Dir. H. Miyake; Jr. Mng. Dirs. G. Toyama, S. Tsutsumi, M. Omi.
Branch: Hakodate. Merged Hokuyo Godo Fishery Co., in 1932.
Nippon Suisan (Marine Products) Co., Ltd. - Nissan Bldg., 2 Tamura-cho
1-chome, Tokyo. Est. 1925. Cap. 93,000 (68,250 p.u.). Pres.
K. Tamura; Mng. Dirs. K. Ueki, S. Minoda, J. Kato, Y. Nishimura,
C. Iwamoto. Trawling, Deep-sea fishing, whaling, ice manufacture,
cold-storage and freezing enterprises; sales of such products and
other foods, etc. Merger of Kyodo Fishery Co., Nippon Godo Kosen
Co., Nippon Whaling Co., Nippon Shokuryo Kogyo K. K.
Osaka Uo K. K. (Osaka Fish Co., Ltd.) - Shimo-Fukishima 3-chome,
Komohana-ku, Osaka. Est. 1931. Cap. 17,000 (12, 763 p.u.). Pres.
T. Inoue: Vice Pres. K. Toyoda; Jr. Mng. Dir. H. Sawa. Fish Markets.
Taiheiyo Gyogyo K. K. - Head Office: Marunouchi Bldg., Marunouchi,
Tokyo. Branch Hakodate. Est. 1931. Cap. 8,O00 (p.u.). Pres.
T. Hiratsuka; Sr. Mng. Dirs. S. Shindo, T. Hara; Jr. Mng. Dirs. T. Koshida,
K. Yamada. Salmon and trout fishing in Kamchatka and Hokkaido Waters.
Takasago Gyogyo K. K. - 5. Kannonzaki-machi 5-chome, Shimonoseki City.
Est. 1932. Cap. 750 (p.u.). Mng. Dir. F. Matsuo. Fishing by trawlers
in Yellow Sea, China, Formosa, Kyushu and Korean Waters.
Source: The Orient Yearbook, 1942.
-238-
16.031 P282 bu

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.98)
APPENDIX E
INDUSTRIES RELATED TO FISHING WHICH WILL BE CRITICAL DURING PERIOD
OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
16-031 P283 nobu

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.99)
APPENDIX E
INDUSTRIES RELATED TO FISHING WHICH WILL BE CRITICAL DURING PERIOD
OF MILITARY GOVERNMENT
Fish Net Manufacture
Fish netting will be one of the basic needs in rehabilitating
the Japenese fisheries. During the war period there has been a scarcity
of nets, but with the revival of textile production Japan can provide
all of its needs of this item. A controlling factor will be the supply
of raw materials, particularly cotton.
The largest part of the netting used for fish nets in prewar years
was made by factories centered in Mie Prefecture. The chief fish net
manufacturing companies in the order of their size are believed to have
been: 1
1.
J. Yamamoto Fishing Net Manufacturing Company.
Kuwana, Mie Prefecture.
Branch office in Nagoya.
2.
Hirata Fishing Net Manufacturing Company
Tomisuhara, Ise (Mie Prefecture)
3.
Mie Net Mamufacturing Company (Miye Seimo Gosh Kaisha)
Yokkaichi (Mie Prefecture)
4.
Amikan Fishing Net Manufacturing Company
Tomida, Ise (Mie Prefecture)
This company manufactured fishing nets and twine, Manila
rope and twine, etc.
5.
Ondo Fishing Net Manufacturing Company
Ondo-Machi, Hiroshima Prefecture
1 "Report on the Japanese Fish Net Industry," Department of Justice,
Jamuary 18, 1943.
-239-
16 031 P285 bu

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.99)
6. Naigai Fishing Net Mamfacturing Company
,Tsu, Mie Prefecture
7.
Ohno Fish Net Mamufacturing Company
Tomida, Mie Prefecture
8.
Amita Shoten Net Manufacturing Company
Sasajima, Nagoya
The last three companies may not have had their own factories but con-
tracted with other companies to manufacture for them. Fish nets were
also manufactured in the city of Kanaawa, Ishikawa Prefecture. In
addition to those manufactured in factories some nets, although in what
quantities it is not imown, were made in the small-scale "cottage"
industries characteristic of Jepan. It is possible that this production
may have accounted for a considerable proportion of the netting used
in the coastal fisheries.
Materials used in Japnnese net man facture included cotton, linen,
silk, ramie, anila hemp and hemp. The trap or pound nets were of the
heavy materials whereas the finer nets such as gill nets were made of
cotton or linen or a mixture of these two fibers.
Repair of Fishing Boats
The Nation-Wide Factory Guide of Japan, a translation of parts
of Zenkoku Kojo Tsuran published in 1939, lists more than 600 firms which
were at that time engaed in shipbuilding and ship repeirs. Of these
the ones listed in Table 1 were designeted as building and/or repairing
fishing vessels. Numerous other firms undoubtedly also built and re-
paired fishing vessels although their main work was on other types of
-240-
16-03t P286 bu

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1
Firms Building and/or Repairing Fishing Vessels
Name
Address
Date of
Chief
Founding
Product
Yamaguchi Prefecture
K. K. Hayashi
Oaza 1 of 4322
1919
Steel wnaling
Ken Shoten
Hikojima Oi-machi,
ships
Hikojima Takkosho
Shimonoseki Shi
Osaka Fu, Osaka
Ikeda Zosensho
89 of 1 Nambajima-cho,
1900
New-motored
Taisho-ku
fishing ships
Hyogo Prefecture-Kobe
Otani Zosensho
874 Iwaya-cho,
1912
Fishing boats
Tsuna-gun
Otada Zosensho
14 of 978 Iwaya-cho,
1845
Fishing boats
Tsuna-gun
Wakayama Prefecture
Ishigaki Zosen Kojo
Oaza 795 Nishi Mukai,
1926
Fishing boats
Nishi Mukai-machi,
Higashi Muro-gun
Mie Prefecture
Nishii Zosensho
625 Ominato-cho.
1929
Fishing boats
Watarai-gun
Yoshinaga Zosensho
668 Ominato-cho,
1935
Fishing ships
Watarai-gun
Nakai Zosensho
Jinja-cho, Watarai-gun
1897
Western style
fishing boats
I zumi Zosensho
Oaza 1 of 618 Hikimotoura,
1914
Fishing boats
Hikimoto-machi, Kita
Muro-gun
Inove Zosensho
Oaza 1787 Hamashima,
Horeki
Fishing vessels
Hamashima-cho, Shima-gun
Period
-241-
16-031 P287 bu

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1 (Contimued)
Firms Building end/or Repairing Fishing Vessels
Date of
Chief
Address
Name
Founding
Product
Chiba Prefecture
1880
Fishing vessels
Oazu 2615 Uchiura,
Mori Zosensho
Kominato-machi,
Awa-gun
Ibarki Prefecture
1920
Seaweed cutting
Oaza 240 Daitoku,
Sekino Tekkosho
ship
Oniya-wura
Inashiki-gun
Shizuoka Prefecture
1926
Fishing vessele
500 Miho,
Goshi Kaisha Koyanogi
Shinizu Shi
Zosen Bunkojo
1915
Eeel fishing boats
190 Miho, Shimizu Shi
Miura Zosersho
1921
Fishing vessels
496 Miho, Sr1mi zu Shi
Tsukama Seizosho
Toyama Prefecture
Fishing veesels
1207 Rokutojo, Shinminato- 1916
K.K. Saga Zosen
machi, Imizu-zun
Tekkosho
Miyagi Prefecture
1889
Fishing repairs
58 Goshoura.
Komatsu Zosensho
Ishinaki Shi
Iwate Prefecture
1936
Fishing vessels
Dei Jusan Chievari,
Kikuchi Zosensho
Ori..asamura,
Shimo Hei-gun
Ok..yama Frefecture
Unknown
Fishing vessels
Wake-gun
Nakanoto Zosensho
Unknown
Fishing vessels
Nake-gun
Isomoto Zosensho
-242-
16-031 P288 bu

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1 (Continued)
Firms Building and/or Repairing Fishing Vessels
Name
Address
Date of
Chief
Founding
Product
Tottori Prefecture
Ishiguro Zosensho
1053 Karo-cho,
1878
Wooden fishing
Tottori Shi
vessels
Ishiguro Zosensho
25 of 1 Gion-cho,
1936
Wooden fishing
Yonago Kojo
Yonago Shi
vessels
Kobayashi Zosen Kogo
1110 Chama-mura,
1781
Fishing vessels
Nima-gun
Tokushina Prefecture
Kuroe Dock Zosensho
Asakawara,
1922
Fishing vessels
Asakawa-mura,
Kaibu-gun
Kochi Prefecture
Yamaji Zosensho
Nagahama-cho
1897
Fishing vessels
Agawa-gun
Nagasaki Prefecture
K. K. Itsutsu Kyodai
323 of 3 To-machi,
1927
Fishing vessels
Zosensho
Nagasaki Shi
Mukai Zosensho
307 of 3 To-machi,
1926
Fishing vessels
Nagasaki Shi
Higuchi Zosensho
214 of 3 To-machi,
1924
Fishing vessels
Nagasaki Shi
Yashima Zosensho
Oaza Sasuna, Sasuna-
1919
Small fishing
mura, Kami Agata-gun
vessels
Oita Prefecture
Kamei Zosensho
Kataura, Tsukumi-machi,
1912
Fishing Steamers
Kita Amabe-gun
Kamei Zosensho
47 Usuki, Usuki-machi,
1912
Fishing Steamers
Kita Amabe-un
-243-
18-031 P289 bu

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.99)
TABLE 1 (Continued)
Firmb Building and/or Repairing Fishing Vessels
Date of
Chief
Address
Name
Founding
Product
Miyazaki Prefecture
1931
Miscellaneous
Oasa Hirano, Aburatsu,
Takahashi Zosensho
fishing vessels
Minami Naka-gun
Hokkaido
1926
Fishing vessels
36 Tauruoka-cho,
Shinzo Zosensho
Hakodate Shi
1914
Fishing vessels
45 Kobune-cho,
Hori Zosensho
Hakodate Shi
1930
Fishing vessels
2 Hokage-cho,
Kanena Suzuki
Hakodate Shi
Zosensho
1897
Fishing vessels
196 Ukaura-cho,
Takigawa Zosensho
Hakodate Shi
1923
Fishing vessels
36 Tsuruoka-cho,
Matsumoto Zosensho
Hakodate Shi
1934
Fishing vessels
144 Sumiyoshi-cho,
Asai Zosensho
Hakodate Shi
1897
Fishing vessels
136 Kanahori-cho,
Saga Zosensho
Hekodate Shi
1928
Fishing vessels
43 Yamase Tomari-cho,
Hiraishi Zosensho
Hakodate Shi
1923
Fishing vessels
Tsuji Tekkosho
Oazu Watsukanai,
Watsukanai-machi,
Soya-gun
1903
Fishing vessels
Aza Minato, Kameda-mura,
Sasmaki Zosensho
Kameda-gun
Source: "Nation-Wide Factory Guide of Japan," FEA Special Areas Branch,
February 1944.
Note:
Place terms in above addresses
English
Japanese
county
gun
city
shi
township or village
mura
city ward
ku
street
dori
subdivision of a ward, town, or
cho (or) machi
village, and not necessarily a
single street.
a further subdivision or "block"
chome
within a "cho" or "machi"
section (no exact English equivalent)
Aga or Oaza
-244-
16-031 P200 bu

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.99)
vessels; pages 805 - 833 of the source lists the names and addresses of
these other firms.
Small boats used in the coastal'fisheries can in many cases be
repaired locally. Fishing villages, particularly the larger ones, have
their own works for engine repair. The Japanese fisherman is a capable
engineer in the sense that he can repair, disassemble and reassemble the
engine on his particular boat. This, of course, is not true of the more
complicated Diesel engines.
Salt Production 2/
In the processing of fish for domestic consumption salt will be
the single most critical item. Before the war Japan was the largest salt
importing country of the world, importing during the period 1935 - 1939
about l.3 million metric tons. 3/ Domestic production averaged about
600,000 tons anmually. Since January 1942 salt for home consumption has
been rationed.
The apparent consumption of salt in Japan proper was about 1.9
million tons per year in the prewar period; of this approximately 800, 000 -
850,000 tons were required for household consumption and the food industries.
The amount used for the salting of fish was 53,000 metric tons in 1937 and
57,000 tons in 1938. Much larger amounts of salt were consumed in the
chemical industries - 1.4 million tons in 1938.
2 This section is largely based upon the report prepared by the U. S.
Tariff Commiesion, "Japanese Trade Studies, Special Industry Analysis
No. 20 — Salt," June 1945.
3 About one-third of prewar imports were from Formosa, Manchuria and
Kwantung and one-sixth from China.
-245-
16-031 P291 bu

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.99)
The salt industry has been under monopolistic control of the
Japanese government since l905. Only persons licensed by the government
could produce or import salt and all domestically produced salt was sold
by the Japanese government. Salt intended for use in the salting of fish,
es well as that for other industries, received individual treatment under
the law and was sold at a special reduced price.
During the period of Military Government control, essential civilian
consumption of salt, i.e. in home consumption and food industries, should
receive first priority and in such allocations the salting of fish should
receive its due share.
-246
16 031 P292 bu

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.99)
Selected List of References
Only the major sources used in the preparation of this report
are listed. In addition numerous confidential sources were consulted,
including consular reports, I. D. C. abstracts, F. C. C. broadcast
summaries, interview of repatriates and documents prepared by the
War Department, the Navy Department and various other government
agencies. Also items and brief articles in several periodicals, both
those published in United States or Japan, were used; among these
periodicels were Far Eastern Survey, Fishery Market News, Pacific
Fisherman, Fish Trade Gazette, Oriental Economist, Journal of Imperial
Fisheries, and Japan Weekly Chronicle.
Annual Statistical Report of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
Tokyo, 1936. (Data on prewar prices of marine products).
Barty, Fritz, "Japans Seefischereien" Petermanns Geographische
Mitteilungen, Vol. 86 (1940).
"Civil Affairs Guide -- Agricultural Associationsof Japan" (Preliminary
mimeographed copy), Foreign Economic Administration, February 1945.
"Civil Affairs Guide - Food and Agricultural Program for Japan"
(Preliminary mimeographed ccpy). Office of Foreign Agricultural
Relations, U. S. Department of Agricul ture, April 1945.
Civil Affairs Handbook - Japan - Section 2A: Government and
Administration, Office of the Provost Marshal General, Military
Government Administration, Washington, July 1944.
Civil Affairs Handbook - Japan ~ Section 6: Natural Resources,
Office of the Provost Marshal General, Military Government Division,
Washington, July 1944. (Army Service Forces Manual M 354-6).
Civil Affairs Handbook -- Japan -- Section 7: Agriculture, Office
of the Provost Marshal General, Military Government Division,
Washington, April 1944. (Army Service Forces Manual M 354-7).
-247-
16-031 P293 bu

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.99)
Selected List of References
(Continued)
Farago, Ladislas, "Fish and Japan's War," Asia, Vol. 41 (February 194l),
pp. 80 - 83.
Far East Yearbook, Tokyo, 1940 and 1941 issues.
"The Fishing Industry of Japan (Excepting Tropical Waters)" Office
of Strategic Services, R and A. 586, Washington, June 1942. (Typed report).
"The Food Position of Japan, " Office of Strategic Services, R and A
No. 2959, April 1945. (Mimeographed report)
Gregory, Hower and Barnes, Kathleen, North Pacific Fisheries.
Herre, Albert W. C. T. "Japanese Fisheries and Fish Supplies," Far
Eastern Survey, Vol. 12, May 1943.
International Whaling Statistics, Volume XIII, Oslo, 1939.
Japan's Canning Industry Since 1930, Tokyo, 1938.
"Japan's Export Trade in Canned See. Food, " Foreign Commerce Weekly,
December 28, 1940.
Japan's Export Trade and Industry, Osaka Mainachi Publishing Company,
Osaka, 1939. (Section on canning and trade of marine products)
Japan's Fisheries Industry 1939, special issue of Japan Times and Mail,
Tokyo, 1939.
Japan-Manchukuo Yearbook, Tokyo, 1940.
Japan Special Catalogue - Fisheries, Imperial Fisheries Bureau of
Japan, 1915.
Japen Times and Mail Aquatic Industry Number (February 1935).
Japan Trade Guide, Tokyo, 1940.
The Japan Yearbook, Foreign Affairs Association of Japan, Tokyo, 1940,
1941 and 1943 issues.
Japanese Trade and Industry - Present and Future, Published by Mitsubishi
Economic Research Bureau, Tokyo, 1936.
-248-
16-031 P294 bu

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.99)
Selected List of References
(Continued)
"Japanese Trade Studies — Special Industry Analysis No. 27 —
Marine Products" (Mimeographed report), U. S. Tariff Comnission,
August 1945.
"Japanese Trade Studies — Special Industry Analysis No. 15 -- Fats,
Oils and Oil-Bearing Materials," (Mimeographed report). U. S. Tariff
Commission, May 1945.
Konda, Seiji, A Geography of the Marine Industry of Japan, Tokyo,
1936 (Partial translation from the Japanese).
Leonard, L. Larry, International Regulation of Fisheries, Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, Washington, 1944.
Marine Foods Canning Industry of Japan, Canned Foods Association of
Japan, Tokyo, 1934.
Military Government Handbook - Kurile Islands, OPNAV 5OE-2, Office
of Chief of Naval Operations, Washington, November 1943.
Miller, Frances F., "Japan's Pacific Fisheries: War Shattered Activity,"
Foreign Commerce Weekly, July 14, 1945.
Nicholson, Sir F. A.,Note on Fisheries in Japan, Madras, India, 1907.
Nippon Suisan Nempô (Japan Fisheries Yearbook), Tokyo, 1938.
Norinsho Tokeihyo, 1939.
Orient Yearbook, Asia Statistics Compeny, Tokyo, 1940 and 1942 issues.
The latter was republished by Interdepartmental Committee for the
Acquisition of Foreign Publications, Washington.
Pacific Fisherman Yearbook, 1940 and 1941 issues.
"Price Control and Rationing in Japan." Report prepared by Lt. Robert
Cooper, revised by H. S. Bloch and S. Takahashi, Civil Affairs Training
School, University of Chicago. Revised report March 1, 1945.
Proceedings of the Sixth Pacific Science Congress of the Pacific Science
Association, Vol. III, University of California Press, 1940. (Several
articles dealing with western Pacific fish resources.)
-249-
16-031 P295 b

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.99)
Selected List of References
(Continued)
Report to the United States Senate on Subsidies and Bounties to
Fishery Enterprises by Foreign Governments, Report No. 1l6, Second
Series, U. S. Tariff Commission, 1936 (Section on Japan).
Schepers, Hansjulius, Japans Seefischerei -- Eine Wirtschafts
Geographische Zusammenfassung, Breslau, 1935.
Schumpeter, Elizabeth B. (Ed.), The Industrialization of Japan and
Manchukuo, New York, 1940.
Statistical Abstract of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Tokyo,
1936-37 volume.
Sugiura, Yasukichi, Suisan, 1939.
Suisankai, monthly journal of the Fisheries Society of Japan, Tokyo.
Several articles from 1938 - 1940 issues.
Tomasevich, Jozo, International Agreements on Conservation of Marine
Resources (With Special.Reference to the North Pacific), Food Research
Institute, Stanford University, California, 1943.
Toyo Keizai Nenkan (Oriental Economy Yearbook), 1943.
Trewartha, Glenn A., Japan, A Physical and Economic Geography, 1945.
"Wartime Distribution of Food in Japan," Office of Strategic Services,
R and A No. 2989, March 1945 (Mimeographed report).
Yasuo, Nagaharu, "The North Ocean Fishery in Japan's Economic Life,"
Far Eastern Survey, April 26, 1939, New York.
-250-
18-031 P296 bu -f1na1

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.99)
JS-37
CONFIDENTIAL
225
Copy No.
FOREIGN ECONOMIC ADMINISTRATION
Enemy Branch
ADMINISTRATION OF PRODUCTION PROGRAMS IN JAPAN
Special attention is called to the fact that this document
was substantially completed prior to the surrender of Japan.
Porsons using this document are cautioned that its recom-
mendations were written prior to the acceptance of the
Potsdam Declaration and the Instrument of Surrender. All
recommendations must, accordingly, be critically examined
in the light of current U.S. palicy.
CONFIDENTIA
July 1945
16 041 Cover

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I
Introduction and Summary of Recommendations
Page
1
I. Introduction
II. Summary of Recommendations
2
2
A. Methods of exercising economic controls
2
B. Extent of application of economic controls
C. Recommendation concerning the utilization of
2
Japanese control agencies and regulations
D. Recommendations concerning the utilization of
444
Japanese personnel
B. Recommendations concerning reporting
F. Recummendation concerning sabotage
G. Suggestions concerning Military Government's
organization for the administration of pro-
5
duction programs
PART II
Descriptive Analysis of Japan's Wartime
Economic Controls
5
I. Introduction
7
II. Controls at the National Level
7
A. Basic authority for economic controls
B. Government Ministries and Bureaus exercising
8
economic controls
C.
Quasi-governmental Organizations controlling
12
industry
12
1. Control Societies and Control Associations
16
2. Munitions Companies
18
3. National Policy Companies
19
4. Eidan or Corporations
23
III. Controls at the Regional Lavel
25
IV. Controls at the Prefoctural and Municipal Level
2
CONFIDENT IAL
1A 041 P1 of 144 bu com

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
-11-
Table of Contents - continued
PART III
RECOMMENDATIONS
Page
I. Military Government's Concern in the Adminis-
tration of Production Programs
28
II. The General Situation which will confront Military
Government in Japan
29
III. Mathods for Exercising Economic Controls
30
A. Priorities
30
B. Allocations
31
C. Credits
31
IV. Recommendations Concerning the Utilisation of
Japanese Control Agencies and Control Regula-
tions.
32
A. General Recommendations
33
B. Utilization of Japanese Control Agencies at
the National Level
34
C.
Utilization of Japanese Control Agencies at
the Regional and Local Levels
34
V. Recommendations Concerning the Utilization of
Japanese Personnel
36
VI. Recommendations Concerning the Protection of
Records, Plants, etc.
37
VII. Recommendations Concerning Reporting
37
VIII.
Recommendation Concerning Sabotage and the
Enforcoment of Military Government's Control
39
x.
Suggestions Concerning Military Government's
Organization for the Administration of Produo-
tion Programs
39
A. Central Organization
39
B. Regional and Prefectural Organization
41
16 041 p2 bu

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.99)
-i1i-
Table of Contants - continued
APPENDICES
Page
I. Administration Regions of Japan - 1945
42
II. National Mobilization Law of Japan
43
III.
Major Provisions of the Munitions Company Act
of October 28, 1943
57
IV. Activities of the Munitions Superintendence
Bureau of the Ministry of Munitions
60
V. Major Industries Organization Ordinance
64
VI.
Imperial Ordinance Covering Amendments to the
Essential Industries Organization Law - 1945
78
VII. Transfer of Administrative Authority Law
81
VIII. Motal Industry Control Society
82
IX. Control Regulations Concerning Control Associa-
tion of Hokkai Warehouse Enterprises
85
I. Electric Engineering Control Society in Japan
89
XI. Electric Machine Control Society
91
XII.
Abstract of Regulations Governing the Establish-
ment of a Warehouse Control Society
96
XIII. Control of Electrical Engineering Industries
98
XIV. Abstract of Regulations on Lumber and Charcoal
100
Production
XV. Pit Wood Control Association
101
XVI. Regulations of the Woolen Goods Control Socioty
102
XVII. The Control Regulations of the Japan Bicyclo
Control Society
107
XVIII. Essential Materials Supervision Corporation Law
.111
XIX. Regulations of Small Scale Business Control
Society
113
10.041 p3 bu

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.96)
- iv -
Table of Contente - continued
APPENDICES - continued
Pace
XX. Middle and Small Scale Industries
117
XXI. Export Associations
121
XXII. Regulations Governing Special Responsibilities in
Keeping Safe the Miscellaneous Articles for Export,
as of March 5, 1942
122
XXIII. The Commodity Link Systen in Japan
124
XXIV. The Development of the Commodity Link Systen
in Japan
126
XXV. The National Policy Companies of Japan - 1943
128

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
PART I
INTRODUCTION AND SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS
I. Introduction
It is the purpose of this guide to recommend the general
administrative and control measures to be applied to carry out
the production programs with which M. G. will be concerned in
Japan. The term "Administration of Production Programs" 
used in this guide is defined as covering all activities involved
in the processing of supplies from raw materials to the finished
product, but does not include such portions of specific industries
as normally do not utilise industrial processes such as agriculture
and fisheries with respect to which activities special guides have
been prepared. The objectivas of these production programs have
been outlined in Part III, Section 1 below. Background infarmation
desoriptive of the Japanese controls for the administration of
their war-time economy has been presented in Part II. Illustrative
material has been provided in the Appendices. The recommendations
presented summarily below have been set forth in more detail with
the reasons therefor in Part III. More specific recommendations
with respect to particular industries may in some cases be found
in the respective industry guides.
In drawing up the reconmendations it was assumed that the
occupation of Japan would occur on a progressive basis until all
or a major portion of the main islands would be brought under
Military Government. Moreover it was assumed that the occupation
would continue long enough to give rise to the necessity for M.Q.
to control the export and import of essential commodities for
various purposes. Furthermare, as this guide is concerned with
the administration of production controls, therefore it is con-
sidered necessary to assume that M.G. may have to concern itself
with programming and allocating the flow of all vital materials
needed to produce the categaries of priority goods set forth in
Part III, Section 1. Should the occupation of Japan be only
partial or of short duration or should other conditions or policy
directives determine that M.G. control of production be more
limited than is here implied, modifications or utilization of
portions of the recommendations which follow will readily suggest
themselves to those using the guide in their planning. In addition
it should be pointed out that this guide should be used in con-
junction with the respective industry guides which may have mare
detailed recommendations as to the control of such industries as
it may be decided M.G. shall be directly concerned with in
accordance with policy directives. This guide, in short, aims
to set the over-all adninistration framework within which M.G.
can operate, either in a supervisory capacity or directly, such
production controls as policy directives and operational con-
ditions and problems shall determine in the future.
CONFIDENTIAL
16 041 p5 bu

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2-
II. Summary of Recommendations
A. Methods for exarcising economic controls
1. To assure the maintenance of priority production
schedules with which M.3. is concerned, as set
forth in Part III, Section 1, M.G. should estab-
lish supervisory administrative controls over
the utilisation and movement of required raw and
semi-finished materials in short supply by a co-
ordinated application of the following methods:
a. Establishment of priorities.
b. Granting of allocations in accordance with
priorities to specific plants, or organisations
of producers on a territorial basis.
c. Extension of credits where needed to enter-
prises or groups of producers receiving allooated
priority materials.
B. Extent of application of economic controls
As a general rule production of items not on M.G.'s
priority production programs should be allowed without allocations
providing:
a. Such production does not require utilisation of
facilities banned by M.G. because of their war-
potential character.
b. Does not require the utilisation of materials
in short supply.
c. Does not impede the movement of priority raw
materials and end-products.
The Japanese officials should, however, be required to
report on such production in arder that surplus looal production
of particular commodities in particular areas may be made avail-
able, insofar as transportation facilities permit, to deficit areas.
C. Recommondations concerning the utilization of Japanese
control agencies and regulations.
1. At the outset of the occupation M.G. should main-
tain in force Japanese war-time control regulations
relating to control of industry and allocations
fuels, power, raw materials, semi-finished goods,
items for maintenance and repair subject to sub-
sequent directives as to amendments, abrogation, etc.
16 041 p6 bu

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
2. Likewise, M.G. at the outset should maintain
or re-establish local governmental agencies
responsible for the administration and enforce-
ment of such laws and regulations as are main-
tained in force and require officials and em-
ployees of such agencies to continue with or
return to their functions.
3. The principles governing the subsequent utili-
zation, abrogation, or modification of existing
Japanese controls should have two major objectives:
a. The re-direction of the flow of materials from
war production into civilian production channels
and the production of equipment for the restora-
tion and maintenance of essential transportation
and public utilities. War-time restrictions on
the utilisation of materials for such purposes
and to meet M.G. priority production programs
should be relaxed.
b. In consonance with long-range U.S. policy ob-
jectives, M.G. should oxercise its controls
and reorganize or abolish Japanese agencies
in order to re-direct Japanese war-time economy
into a free enterprise, competitive economy in
which small and particularly medium-sized enter-
prises are unstifled by excessive government
controls or by cartels and combines.
4. The Munitions Ministry should be abolished and much
of its war-time functions and controls as are needed
to attain M.G. objectives should be transferred back
to the old line pre-war ministries.
5.
The 400 odd designated munitiona companies should
in principle be initially closed down particularly
those producing military items, and only those most
essential and most readily convertible to lines of
production in which M.G. is interested be allowed
subsequently to operate under direct or indirect
supervision.
6. M.G. should directly concern itself with the assets,
property and facilities of National Policy Companies
and all Eidan or publio corporations. Insofar as
M.G. finds it useful to continue the operation of any
of the facilities of government managed or owned
agencies and monopolies or utilize their organisation
and material M.G. may do so or order Japanese officials
to do so under its supervision.
16 048 p7 bu

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.99)
4 -
7. Because of the extent to which Japan has de-
centralized its controls operationally on a
regional basis it is recommended that M.G. sub-
ordinate prefectural controls o regional con-
trols. For this purpose it is recommended that
the Regional Superiniendents-General Orfices
be retained and utilised to gather information
on the requirement and supply situation in each
region and to allocate out regional allotments
of raw materials made by M.G.'s central pro-
duction control agency.
It is recommended that regional advisory councils
be formed representative equally of small, medium
and large sized producers of the area to advise
M.G. and Japanese officials.
It is recommended that the Control Societies and
Control Associations be abolished and their assets
and property be sequestered by M.G. to be dis-
posed of in accordance with subsequent directives.
The companies, organizations, and federations
which made up these organizations should be author-
ized to reorganize along pre-war types of commercial
and industrial organizations, known as Kumiai on a
voluntary, cooperative, and democratically organized
basis.
D. Reccmmendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
personnel. Japanese personnel should be as fully
utilized as possible to carry out M.G. directives and
policies. Individuals, however, whose names appear
on purge lists, because their past records and acti-
vities make them unfit to hold responsible positions,
should not be appointed to such positions.
E. It is recommended that Japanese officials and such
governmental and quasi-governmental agencies, private
organizations and individuals as may be designated by
M.G. be required to submit initial reports and there-
after current reports covering the points set forth under
Part III, Section 7 in order to assist M.G. in drawing
up its production programs and determining priorities
and allocations.
F.
It is recommended that M.G. place on an area or region as
a whole, as well as on designated Japanese officials
the responsibility for fulfilling production programs
and observing allocations and priority regulations. In
the event that sabotage is wide-spread in a particular
area it is recommended that its allotment of raw materials,
pomer, consumer goods, etc., be cut down until such sabotage
or misuse of materials ceases, or is reduced to isolated
cases which can be handled by direct and specific discip-
linary measures.
10 041 p8 bu

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
G. Suggestions concerning Military Government's organi-
sation for the administration of production programs.
It is suggested that M.G. set up at contral bead-
quarters a production control agency to include a
planning and control unit and functional units to
carry out the functions set forth in Part III,
Section 9 A; and branch agencies in sach of the
regions occupied with sub-branches in each occupied
prefecture to carry out the functions cutlined in
Part III, 9 B.
PART II
DESCRIPTIVE ANALYS IS OF JAPAN'S WART IME ECONOMIC CONTROLS
I. Introduction
The descriptive analysis of Japan's wartime economic con-
trols which is set farth below relates to the situation which ob-
tained in June of 1945 and is based upon the latest information
available. Undoubtedly there will be additional changes in the
details of the administrative structure of these controls as the
war goes on, such as have occurred frequently in the past. How-
ever, the basic underlying pattern will probably remain the same
as existed at that time. The major trend at that time was the
decentralization of national controls and their concentration in
the eight administrative regions into which the country has been
divided. The purpose of course was to prepare Japan against an
invasion by increasing the economic self-sufficiency and.adminis-
trative autonomy of each region in the event of the breakdown of
centralised administration at the national level which the disruption
of transportation and communications would entail.
As in the case of Germany prior to occupation, information
is lacking to disclose accurately and in detail just how Japan
administered its production programs, allocated raw materials,
established priorities, let and sub-let contracts, prepared re-
ports on inventories, supplies of raw materials, semi-finished
goods, etc. Presumably such information will become available
to M.G. after occupation insofar as the archives and records of
the varicus Ministries, the Munitions Companies, the Eidan, the
national and regional offices of the Control Associations, the
regional superintendents-generals Offices in each of the eight
regions and the prefectural and metropolitan administrative offices
have not been destroyed. Access to such records will aid M.G.
materially in establishing its own production controls. It is
pertinent to note that the Government has stipulated that all
accounts and records of Control Societies and Associations and
Munitions Companies, presumably relating to fiscal matters,
materials and production should run according to the Government's
fiscal year namely from April 1 to March 30, thus establishing
16.041 p9 bu

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
a completely unified national system of accounting in harmony
with national production scheduling and the allocation of raw
materials on a quarterly basis in which the first quarter runs
from April through June.
Even with access to sueh detailed information it will not
be easy to grasp fully an underatanding of how the Japanese military,
bureaucrats, business and industrial leaders have administered their
production programs. The layer upon layer of econcmic controls set
up by decree, law, ordinance and a plethora of subsequent administra-
tive regulations since the passage of the General Mobilization Law of
1938 and the Extraordinary War Measures Bill of June 1945, accompanied
by frequent shifts in the administrative structure nationally and
locally are difficult to disentangle in order to discover exactly
where the lines of administrative authority lie as between the various
Ministries and their bureaus, the quasi-governmental agencies such
as the Control Societies and the Munitions Companies, the local
government bureaus and private commercial and industrial enterprises.
It was not until November of 1943, when the Munitions Ministry was
established, that the Japanese goverment succeeded in creating a
degree of contralized allocating of raw materials and the scheduling
of production programs which might be compared with the work of the
U.S. War Production Board. Even after that date, the old-line
ministries and agencies continued to guard jealously and to exsercise
to a degree their former control functions causing confusion and in-
efficioncy, and endless red tape. The continuing struggle of the
big industrialists and Zaibatsu to retain control, working chiefly
through the control societies, various advisory councils and by
holding positions in the government itself at Ministerial level,
against the bureaucrats on the one tand and the military on the
other have resulted in a series of comprorises which limit the full
application of the government's innumerable minute regulations.
These struggles have led to frequent administration reorganizations
and even cabinet changes. A study of the myriad of decrees, or-
dinances, regulations and ministerial orders can give only a
general picture of how the Japanese actually controlled their
production programs. Japan is ruled more by men than by law and
the bureaucrats' network of regulations and red-tape can be readily
cut through at will by the military, financial and industrial
oligarchs. Nevertheless a study of the development and inter-
relation of the existing mechanisms and agencies of economic control
is necessary as a background upon which to base recommendations
for their suppression or utilization with or without modification
by M.G. to establish its controls over production. The rest of this
section will be devoted to a generalized description of the pre-
vailing mechanisms and agencies of control which obtained in June
1945. More detailed studies of how the controls were actually
applied in specific industries will be found in the respective
indus ry Guides.
16 041 p10 bu

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
II. Controls at the National Level
A. Basic authority for economic controla*
The basic authority for the exercise of wartime economic
controls by the government until June l945 found its origin in the
General National Mobilization Act of 1938 and as subsequently revised
(see Appendix II) together with the myriad of imperial decrees,
ordinances and ministerial orders and regulations which derive from
and implement that act. The controls were highly centralized until
June of 1943 when a trend toward decentralization arose as it be-
came increasingly apparent that the war was going against Japan and
that the home-islands would be subject to increasing attack from
the air and possibly even invasion. At that time Japan was divided
into nine administrative regions (reduced to eight in Feb. 1945)
with the President of each region directly responsible to the
Premier. The Progressive loss of Guam, Saipan, the Philippines,
Iwo Jima and finally Okinawa speeded up the decentralization trend
culminating in the passage on June 12, 1945 by an extraordinary
session of the Diet of an Extraordinary War Measures Bill which
gives the government power to nullify or revise provisions of the
General Mobilization Act and all subsequent legislation and to
issue new orders and regulations without check by the Diet. Through
the passage of this Bill, the Diet surrendered to the Government
virtually all of its power and presumably will not sit again until
after the war.
Within the Bill, "Government" was defined as including not
only the Ministries of the Cabinet but also the Offices of the
Superintendents - General, newly created two days before the pas-
sage of the Bill to head up the administration of the eight regions
(see Appendix I and Chart). Thus, the basis was provided for
complete regional administrative autonomy over economic controls
in the event any region was completely cut off from contact with
the central regime following invasion.
The broad scope of the Bill is stated in Article 1 (Tokyo
broadcast in English), "...the Government, when urgently necessary,
will take steps for the proper measures regardless of the stipulations
in other laws and regulations concerning: (1) increase of military
and war requirement production; (2) maintenance and improvement of
transportation and communications; (3) strengthening of defense and
maintenance of order; (4) adjustment of the taxation system; (5)
measures for war damages; (6) other matters necessary for compen-
sating and manifesting the fighting strength specified by Imperial
ordinances."
*For a briaf account of history of pre-war to wartime econonio
controls, see Civil Affairs Handbook - Japan - Sec, 8 A -
Industry, p. 89.
18 041 p11 bu

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
According to a Domei broadcast in English "The Govern-
ment gazetted, under the date of June 22, the Extraordinary
War Measures Act and also its enforcement decree, to be effective
from June 23. According to the enforcement decree, this ect
will be enforced not only in Japan proper but also in Chosen
and Taiwan. Those vested with the powers of issuing orders and.
making other dispositions under this act include Cabinet Minis-
ters, Regional Superintendents General, and the Governors General
of Chosen and Taiwan." The fields of authority covered by the
Act as given in the same broadcast are as follows: "(1) Coamence-
ment and abolition of business, management of business, and punish-
ment of those engaged in business; (2) organizations of business
bodies, cooperation between various business bodies, and control
of employment and expropriation of business bodies; (3) adjustment
of labor suoplies--including electricity motive power and funds,
possession and disposition of supplies and control of employment
and expropriation of supolies and motive power; (4) construction,
expansion, repairing, maintenance, exchange, consolidation, dis-
position, control, employment, and expropriation of land, buildings,
trees, equipment, and other facilities; (5) acquisition, forfeiture,
change, exercise, employment, and expropriation of rights; (6) in-
corporation, merger, dissolution of juridical persons, and changes
in objects of juridical persons; (7) contracts on prices, wages
and other delivery of property, and also payment and receipt thereof;
(8) movements and domicile of persons; (9) the collection, official
inspection, and examination of reports; (lo) exceptions and exemptions
to laws concerning control and regulations; and (1l) Other matters
deslgnated after consultation with the competent Cabinet Minister
and the Premier."
B. Government Ministries and Bureaus Exercising Economic
Controls
The Ministries responsible for exercising war production
controls and the scope of their activities as of January 1, 1945
(for full description see Civil Affairs Handbook, Section 2 A -
Government and Administration and "The Japanese Ministries; Table
of Administrative Structure," Office of Strategic Services, R.
and A No. 2836) are as follows:
1. Munitions Ministry - Established in November 1943 to
exercise overall controls over industries directly related to
munitions production.
Total Mobilization Bureau - Including a General Affairs
Defense and Investigation Section, a Supervision Division which
included a Control, Labor, a Financial and an Efficiency Section.
Aircraft Ordinance Bureau: Electric Power Bureau: Fuel
Bureau, covering petroleum, the fermantation industry, synthetic
oil and gas; Coal Bureau, Non-Ferrous Metals Bureau; Iron and Steel
Bureau, including Sections on Iron and Steel Manufacturing, Special
Steels, and Distribution; Light Metals Bureau, including Sections
on Aluminum, Magnesium and Carbon Alloys; (incorporated into Air-
craft Ordinance Bureau, June 1945) Chemicals Bureau, including
16 041 p12 bu

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
Organic, Inorganic Synthetic, Chemical Administration and "House-
hold" Sections; Machinery Bureay, including Machinery (probably
machine tools), Administration, Precision Instrument, Industrial
Machinery and Power Machinery Sections; Qrganization Bureau, in-
cluding Financial Affairs Section; Statistics Bureau; Mining
Superintendent Bureau; Planninz Board; Munitions Superintendent
Division and a Works Bureau with an Equipment Section.
2. Agriculture and Conmerce Ministry - General Affairs
Bureau, including a General Affairs, Adjustment, Resources Mobili-
zation, Associxtions (of agriculture, industry and commerce), funds,
Oils and Fats and Planning Sections; Agriculture Administration
Bureau, including Agriculture Administration, Management, Agricultural
Products, Agricultural Insurance, Land Cultivation, Animal Products,
Fertilizer and Feed Sections; Textile Bureau, including Cotton
Manufacturing, Silks and Woolens, Synthetic Fibre, Sericulture and
Planning Sections; Forestry Bureau, Fruits Bureau, Fisheries Bureau;
Horse Administration, Consumers Commodities Bureau, including Agri-
cultural Food Products, Animal Food Products, Manufactured Foods,
Manufactured Goods Section; Commodity Price Bureau; Food Control
Bureau; Business Affairs Bureau.
3. Finance Ministry has among other Bureaus a Monopoly
Bureau dealing with tobacco, salt and camphor and a Patent Bureau.
4. Greater East Asia Ministry which handles economic
affairs relating to Japanese trade and economic activities in the
occupied areas includes a Manchurian Affairs Bureau with a Devel-
opment of Industries Section, Land Development Section and a
Colonial Affairs Section; China Affairs Bureau, including General
Affairs, Government Administration, Financial, Agriculture and
Forestry, Commerce and Industry, Transportation, and Special Pro-
perty Sections;
Southern Regions Bureau (includes all other occupied
areas), including Industrial, Financial, Commercial and Trans-
portation Sections;
Trade Bureau including a Planning Section, Import
Section and Export Section.
5. Home Affairs Ministry -
Prefectural Bureau, including an Administration Section
and a Financial Administration Section; Police Bureau, National
Public Works Bureau, including & Rivers Section and a Road Section;
Control Bureau, including a Civil Administration Section, Financial
Soction, Development of (Local) Industries Section, Economic Section;
16 041 'p12 bu

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
6. Transportation and Communications Ministry*
Communications Board including a Ganeral Affairs
Bureau, Operations Bureau, Savinzs and Insurance Bureau, and
an Enzineering Bureau; Railway Bureau General, including a General
Affairs Bureau including Accounts, Treasury, Labor, Training,
and Welfare Sections; Bureau of Operations including Finance, Ware-
houses, Transportation, Shipping, Traffic, and Engines and Cars
Sections; Installations and Equipment Bureau, including an Equipment,
Maintenance and Repair, Roadbed, Stations, Trunk Lines, Construction,
and Machinery, Electric Power, and Communications Section; Materiala
Bureau, including Rolling Stock, Metals, Coal and Materials, Shops
Passenger and Freight Cars, and Engina Sections; Labor Bureau, Regional
Installation Department Offices and Regional Railroad Bureau Offices;
Marine Transportation Bureau-General, including General Affairs Bureau,
Marine Transportation Bureau, including Harbor Administration, Marine
Affairs, Beacons and Engineering Sections; Seamen's Bureau, Shipping
Bureau; and Regional Marine Transvortation Bureau; Aviation Bureau
(civil aviation); Lighthouse Bureau, Motor Vehicles Bureau, Harbor
Bureau, including Harbor Construction Divisions at Niigata, Yokohama,
Kobe and Shimonoseki.
7. Ministry of Welfare
Health Bureau; Labor Bureau including Control, Planning,
Facilities, and Registration Sections; Insurance Bureau and a War
Labor Promotion Headquarters.
A study of the above list of the eccnomic functions of the
various Ministries discloses that production controls at the national
level were concentrated largely in the Munitions Ministry and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Conmerce. The former concerns itself
largely with the production of munitions other than ordnance which is
directly under Army and Navy Ministries and the industries connected
therewith while the latter concerns itself largely with the distribu-
tion of essential minimum civilian requirements. The Munitions Minis-
try, which combined functions of a War Production Board, a War Man-
power Commission, a War Labor Board and a part of the Army Service
Forces (as far as aviation is concerned), maintained under the Premier
a dominant position over the other Ministries. In general it controlled
the National Economic Mobilization policies; the production of raw
materials for key industries; the production, distribution, con-
sumption and price of mineral and industrial products; the regulation
of labor, wages, and capital in enterprises relating to production
and distribution of electricity (see Civil Affairs Handbook, Japan,
Section 10 A - Administration of the Electric Power Industry) pro-
duction and distribution of machinery and machine tools; and con-
trolled the petroleum and alcohol monopolies. It exercised such
*In the Spring of 1945 the Communications Board was separated from the
Ministry.
16 041 p14 bu

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.99)
-11 -
over-all allocations of raw materials and priorities determinations
as obtained in Japan, operational details concerning which are still
unavailable.
The reorganization of the control functions to achieve de-
centralization on a regional basis which got underway in June, 1945,
resulted in the transfer of many functions formerly exercised by
the Ministries to the Regional Superintendents-General Offices.
These offices in case of emergency were to allocate the materials
and supervise production on a regional basis in accordance with
over-all regional allocation made by the central government. All
national mobilization and production programs were worked on a
yearly basis and broken down into quarters for purposes of allocating
materials and power. The Japanese year for this purpose is the same
as the government's fiscal year namely from April 1 to March 31.
Thus the first quarter embraces April, May and June.
Its only competitors bureaucratically speaking were the Army
and Navy Ministries who could place contracts directly with the
Munitions Companies for ordnance and who controlled directly the
Army and Navy Arsenals. In addition the Navy Ministry exercised con-
trol over all ship-building, both naval and merchant marine.
Such intra-Cabinet bureaucratic conflicts as arose were pro-
bably resolved within the Cabinet by the Premier acting on the advice
of the Cabinet Planning Bureau, and possibly the Cabinet Advisory
Board.
Sharper and more enduring than the clashes among the bureau-
crats within the Government as to the development and exercise of
economic controls has been the conflict between Government and busi-
ness and industry at all levels. Nevertheless, the Government has
progressively extended its control directly and indirectly over all
industrial as well as agricultural production from the largest
Zaibatsu enterprises down to the small local enterprises in the mure
at a sub-prefectural level. The heaviest sufferers in this progressive
elimination of a free-enterprise, coapetitive economy have been the
small and medium sized commercial and industrial organizations and
businesses, which, under the combined pressure and manipulation of
the Government and the large industrial and commercial enterprises
(including the Zaibatsu) have been in large measure squeesed out of
existence either through forced mergers, or by being deprived of
essential raw materials, capital or labor needed to carry on their
activities. The largest concerns have been able to hold their own
through a series of compromises whereby they have become virtually
quasi-governmental enterprises and their leading representatives
virtual government officials, who in a few cases have taken positions
of ministerial rank in the Cabinet. There has developed in recent
years forms of organization of industry which stop only just short
of a complete nationalization of that industry. Under the powers
conferred upon the Government by the War Measures Act of June 1945,
it is quite possible that the nationalization of Japan's war industry
will occur before the end of the war. These organizations are the
Control Societies (Tosek-kai) and their sub-organizations the Control
16 041 p15 bu

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12 -
Associations (Tosei-Kumiai); the Munitions Companies, the National
Policy Companies and the Eidan or Corporations.
Under a law passed on February 18, 1942, which was based
on Article 18 of the National General Mobilization Law, official
authority was extended to the Control Societies, the National
Policy Companies, the Corporations (Eidan) to carry out their re-
sponsibilities (See Appendix VII). These control organizations were
to be considered as government agencies in discharging their re-
sponsibilities and any violation of their orders was to be considered
as a violation of the particular law or regulation upon which their
order was based. The officials of these organizations were to be
considered as Government officials. Matters relating to the allo-
cation and distribution of raw materials and of production programs
within the respective industries were to be conducted by these
organizations.
In addition, there were the prefectural Commercial and
Industrial Eccnomic Boards organized under Government direction.
A description of the organization, operational responsibilities
and interrelationships of these agencies with each other and with
the Government will throw further light on how Japan's war economy
functions and provide a background upon which to base recommendations
as to the extent to which M.G. can or should utilize them for the con-
trol of its own production programs.
C. Quasi-Governmental Organizations Controlling Industry
1. Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and Control Associations
(Tosei-Kumiai).
The Major Industries Association Ordinance proulgated
August 29, effective September 1, 1941, laid the basis for the
organization of the major proportion of industry for war pro-
duction. (For text and Amendment see Appendices V and VI).
By 1943, 12,762 of the 83,024 corporations of Japan or 15 percent,
were organized into Control Societies under this ordinance re-
presenting assets evaluated at 11,626,000,000 yen or 38 percent of
the total industrial assets. Prior to the establishment of the
Munitions Ministry in November 1943 there were no less than 345
of those Societies organized and placed under the supervisory con-
trol of the former Ministry of Commerce and Industry (22 under
Metals Bureau, 75 under Bureau of Chemistry, 31 under Machine
Bureau, 96 under Textile Bureau, 99 under Fuel Bureau, and two
under Trade Bureau). Since that time many more have been organized.
Distribution according to industry in 1943 was as follows: Motal
Mining 397 corporations; Coal Mining 215, Metal Refining 134, Machinery
4,844, Cement 68, Trade 880, Rails, 297, Fibre 4,315, Chemical 541,
Fats and Oil 329, Rubber 440, Leather 306.
The passage of the ordinance setting up these vertical
control societies followed a long struggle between elements in
the bureaucracy and among the military and private industry, and
represents a compromise whereby private industry was to retain its
basic character as such but to be brought under the stricter control
16 041 p18 bu

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
of the government than ever before. The ordinance provided
for the establishment of Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and
Control Associations (Tosei-Kumiai) by kind of industry when
designated to do so by the competent minister. They are set
up under civil law as joint stock companies. The functions
of the Control Societies as defined in Article 6 are broad in
scope. They are responsible for planning with the government
the national program for production and distribution in the
industry concerned, the means of supplying the labor, raw
material, capital and any other demands of the industry con-
cerned; for controlling and guiding production and distribution
of any of the enterprises belonging to the industry concerned;
providing for the complete equipment of the industry, developing
the technique, increasing the efficiency, unifying the techniques
of production, performing the management, undertaking investigation
of the enterprises within the industry and conducting research.*
Officers of a Control Society consist of a president,
several directors, several inspectors, and a board of trustees.
In some cases two vice-presidents and one chief-director may be
appointed. The president represents the Society, controls and
guides the Society and manages all the affairs of the Society.
His is a very powerful position and that position has usually
been held by the head of one of the largest units in the industry
as a whole. He is appointed to the position by the competent
minister from among those suggested by the nominating committee.
The nominating committee in turn is appointed by the competent
minister from among those "who have had experience with or have
made special studies on the industry concerned" (Art. 14). The
president in turn appoints, with the approval of the competent
minister, the vice-presidents, the chief-director, the directors
and members of the board of trustees. Bach board "elects" in-
spectors who investigate the financial conditions of the Society
and advise the president on inquiries submitted to them by the
president. With the approval of the competent minister, the
president can discharge the vice-president, chief-director and
the directors even during their three year term of office. The
officers shall not be engaged in other official duties or in
commercial businoss except as the competent minister may allow
(Articles 12-16).
Through this autocratic method of selecting officers it
is understandable how it has come about that the dominant units,
usually Zaibatau controlled, have been able to control these
Societies through their keymen in close cooperation with the
ministerial bureaucrats.
In July 1945, the Major Industries Ordinance was revised to
strengthen the Control Society in order to increase their regional
administrative autonomy. (See Appendix VI).
16 041 p17 bu

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.99)
-14 -
The Control Society may give suggestions about matters
related to the industry to the minister concerned with the in-
dustry and must give answers to inquiries submitted by the
minister. In turn the officers may request from members sub-
mission of the necessary material for the investigation of cer-
tain points regarding the industry and such material must be
submitted immediately (Articles 17, 18). The Control Society
may levy assessments and fines on members, establish control
regulations governing members, investigate the business affairs,
financial conditions, account books, establishments, and other
property of members if it is considered necessary. The president
may with approval of the competent minister discharge officials
of member concerns when an ordinance, or administrative decision
based on an ordinance is violated, or the Society's regulations
are violated or the public welfare is jeopardized. (Art. 27).
The powers reserved by the Government over the Control
Societies are extensive as defined in Articles 3l-36. The
competent ministers may order business reports to be made when-
ever they consider necessary or inspect factories, accounting
books, documents or other items; they may order the Society to
conduct such investigations or order the Society to operate a
needed enterprise; they may take over management of the Society
itself; they may discharge the presidents and other officers and
may dissolve the Societies.
The Control Associations (Tosei-Kumiai) closely parallel
in their functions and organization the Control Societies and
are  ubordinated to them. The Societies represent and control the
industry as a whole, while Kumiai representing largely medium
and small sized enterprises are organized into a Control Associa-
tion on a territorial basis, i.e., Do, Fu or Ken. They may have
as members single proprietors, companies, joint stock companies,
industrial or commercial associations, federations of industrial
and commercial associations, or mixed combinations in a given
industry. They may embrace two or more such administrative divi-
sions. The head of the association is a Chief-Director who is
appointed by the president of the Control Society over the same
industry. When there is no Control Society, the competent minister
appoints a Chief-Director. With respect to certain functions
and powers set forth in Art. 50 the government's local prefectural
administrative office takes the place of the competent minister.
By Art. 5l the Minister of Army or Navy replaces the competent
minister when inquiries, reports, inspections, investigations and
orders concerned are of direct military importance. This clause
was a source of conflicting jurisdictional disputes both within
the Government and in the Control Societies. The establishment
of the Munitions Ministry in November 1943 was designed to re-
solve these disputes at the top level. At the operating level
the conflicts occurred in the relation of the Munitions Companies
to the Control Societies.
10 041 p18 bu

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
Operationally the major Control Societies have head
offices usually in Tokyc with branch offices in the eight
regions and sub-branch offices in prefectures where their
enterprises are centered.
The Government, in order to exercise control over
the Societies issued under Article 16 of the General National Mo-
bilization Law on May 13, 1942, an ordinance which vested
in the Ministries the authority to restrict or prohibit the
use or transfer of industrial facilities or patent rights held
by mamufacturing or commercial organizations; to restrict
or prohibit sale of enterprises, to order the transfer, by
sale or lease, of industrial facilities or patent rights held
by companies or juridical bodies and to order companies or
juridical bodies to absorb specified enterprises. This or-
dinance was to apply to both large and small enterprises but
to be applied against larger ones only when they show reluctance
to comply with government requests for expansion or altaration
of their lines of production. The result of this ordinance was
to increase the rate of merging or abolishing small and nedium
sized enterprises.
At the outset the Control Socicties under the general
superrision of the competant ministers had the rasponsibility
of controlling and allocating materials within their spheres.
This, however, led to a chaotis situatlon in which enterprises
were competing for the same materials but in diffarent Societies
There was lacking a uniform allocating systam under a priorities
rating until the Munitions Ministry was established late in 1943.
This developwent and the increase in the nunbar of Munltions
Companios seemed to reduce the dominant role of the Control
Societies over the economy as a whole. However, that was not
the casa and they continued to exercise a useful role of a
liaison character and in carrying out the administrative regu-
lations of the government with respect to the control and operation
of industry itself. Likewise through their control over the
thousands of small enterprises organized into the Tosei-Kumiai
they brought their capacities and facilities into relationship
witn the overall production schedules of the government. In this
regard they operated most effactively at the regional and pre-
fectural levels.
In general it can be said that by July 1945, the Control
Societies controlled the production and distribution of the pro-
ducts of their respective industries under tha regional allocations
of the Regional Superintendents-General Offices in accordance with
the overall regional allogations granted the region under the
General Mobilization Plan of the central government. An ordinance
issued July 4, 1945 revisad the Major Industries Ordinance of
September 1, 1941 for the purpose of strengthening the Control
Societies giving them the power to operate and administer as well
as exercise general managerial supervision over all members'
facilities (See Appendix VI). In so doing however, they were to
remain under the general supervision of the Regional Superintendents
Genuerals Offices set up in June 1945. The Regional Offices' task
16 041 p19 bu

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.98)
-16 -
was to set up supply and distribution quotas for their re-
spective regions and issue allocation certificatas under a
priority system to the Regional Control Sociaty branches.
It is the job of aach Society to see that production quotas
are met, to allocate production quotas among the enterprises
within the Society and to assist tha competent minister in
determining prices and to distribute the product properly
under the allotment certificates issued by the Government.
Thus even in case of a through-production plant such as a
steel plant it cannot utilize its on ingot or special steels
except under an allotment certificate. (For regulations of
typical Sccieties see Appendices VIII-XVIII).
2. Munitipns Companies (Gunju Kaisha)
Several years before the outbreak of war in the Pacific
in 194? the Japanese Government, through the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry and Army and Navy Ministars. began to extend
its control over designated plants of the larger industrial
intarests to guide them in converting and expanding their
facilities for the production of munitions of all kinds. The
Army and Vavy bought for then with governnent funds necessary
machine tools of all kinds fran abroad, placed contracts with
then, guaranteed profits, assisted them in getting priorities
on scarce materials and labor. They sant their own technicians
J.nto these plants and supervised and inspected the output. By
the time the war broke out there were over a hundred of such
plants and sub-plants oroducing the most advanced types of
ordnance of which Japan was capable, from aircraft to small arms
ammunition.
On December 7, 1943, a Munitiona Company Law (for
summary, see Appendix III) went into effect designed to extend
the government's direct control over these plants even further.
Since the passage of the act the number of such companias has
increased to over 400. The range of activities engaged in by
these companies extend from finished aircraft, ordnance, tanks,
trucks, through iron and steel manufacturing, chemicals, machine
tools, fuels, coal, non-ferrous metals, electric power and gas
works. While the ownership of the companies remained private
the Government, particularly the Munitions Ministry and the Army
and Navy Ministries, virtually managed then.
According to the Article 5 of the Act, the designated
companies were to select a person responsible for production
among the officials of the company." If they could not do so
the government would appoint a person to that position. The
managerial staff and employees would be subject to the orders
of the "leader" in charge (Art. 14). The government could punish
this designated "leader" for failure to carry out his duties.
10 04t p20 bu

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.99)
- 17 -
The Government might designate the "time, plans, quan itiss,
and other necessary matters" relating to production schedules
(Art. 6). It might issue orders relating to the acquisition,
storage and movament of basic materials, to the inprovemant of
technique, the supervision of labor and other matters necessary
to carry or the enterprise (Art. 7). It might restrict or ban
the Munitions Companies from engaging in other than designated
operations (Art. 10). It might issue necessary orders "in con-
nection with the analgamation or dissolution of munitions com-
panias" (Art. 1l). It might "issue orders to munitions companies
necessary to effect the adjustment and management of funds" (art.
12). It might issue orders or take necessary measures for the
supervision of munitions companies (Art. 15), and gather, inspect
and examine reports on "the business matters of munitions companies
(Art. 16).
In return for submitting to these Government controls,
the Munitions Coupanies enjoyed many privileges. The Government
might cancel bans and restrictions in regard to procedures for
permits, etc., (Art 3). They could thus obtain special priorities
with respect to materials, equipment, and capital funds. They
could recruit labor and the governnent could guarantee profits
(Art. 4). The Government could back up the absorption of one
enterpriae by another (Arts. 8 and 9). Under Article 8, the
Government might "issue orders necessary for cooperation between
the Munitions Company and those (persons) connected with carrying
on the operation of cooperating factories and subsidiary factories
and other enterprises which the Munitions Company conducts". Under
Articla 9, the Government might "issue to Munitions Companies
orders necessary in connection with the taking over or taking
custody of enterprises, the classification (of articles of trust),
or changes in the articles or incorporation, the delegation,
transfer, or discontinuing or suspension of operations (and) the
transfer of equipment or (patent rights) belonging to an enter-
prise." Administratively these companios were placed under the
direct supervision of the Munitions Ministry through the Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus set up in the nine (later, after February
1945, eight) regions.
In view of the favored position held by the Munitions
Companias, it is natural that doubts arose as to the continued
usefulness of the Control Societies. However, they continued to
survive, as we have seen above and were given a stronger position
under an ordinance issued about July 4, 1945. The relations
between the Control Socisties and Munitions Companies at the
regional level were controlled by the Munitions Superintendence
Bureau, which after June 1945, were placed in the Regional
General-Superintendents' offices. The principal function of
the Regional Superintendence Bureaus (for details see Appendix
IV) was to coordinate production with requirements and see that
Munitions Companies got their priority quotas of raw and semi-
finished materials from the Control Societies and Associations.
16 041 p21 bu

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
-18-
The fact that the large Zaibatsu and other combines had some
factories which were designated Munitions Companies and some
which werc in the Control Societies or Associations together
ith the general situation that Munitions Companies utilized
the materials and semi-finished products produced by them to
fabricate end-products reduced the sphere of potential con-
flict between the two. Furthermore, overall priority and
allocations control was concentrated in the Munitions Ministry
which continued after the decentralization reorganisation of
June 1945, to issue basic production and allocation quotas
on a rogional basis.
3. National Policy Companies
Japan began the establishment of semi-official
"national policy" companies in 188l with the establishment
of the Yokohama Specie Bank.* Up to 1939 there were 36 of
these comnanies. Before 1936 these companies were usually
concerned with banking communications and colonial and re-
gional development. Two of the most facous in the last named
field were the South Manchurian Railway Company and the Oriontal
Development Company. The first such company to be concerned
pri-arily with the industrial fiald was the Japan Iron Manu-
facturing Company established in l933. Fourteen of these com-
panias were organized between 1937 and 1939, a number of which
were designed to exnand production of "strategic" materials
regardless of cost. These included the Imperlal Fuel Develop-
ment Company, Janan Electric Power Generation and Transmission
Company, Janen Rice Company, Imperial Mining Development Company,
Japan Aeronautical Transportation Company, Japan Fertilizer
Company and the Japan Coal Company.
The government as a rule contributes part of tho
canital (usually half), permits the issue of debentures up to any-
where from two to ten times the paid-up capital; guarantees the
principal and interest on debentures; receives dividends at a
*The genaral term "National Policy Companys" as used herein and
generally elsewhere in reality covers two types of companies,
namely, Kokusaku Kaisha (National Policy Companies) and Tokushu
Kaisha (Special Companies). The former term refers to large
regional dovelopment companies such as the Hokkaido Development
Company, the Oriental Development Company (for Korea), North China
Development Company, etc. These companies usually include sub-
sidiary companies. The Special Companies cover specific commodi-
ties or industries. The generic term is justified as the govern-
ment exercises large measures of control and directly or indirectly
and finances them to carry out broad national policies.
10 041 p22 bu

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.99)
- 19-
lower rate than private shareholders or gives them up entirely
when profits are small; grants exemptions from income, profit
and local taxes and from import duties on inported materials
and equipment for a limitad number of years; and sometimes pro-
vides subsidies. In zeneral, national policy companies were
formed to assure adequate expansion of facilitiss and materials
to meet the needs of the expanding strategic industries and
establish to the fullest extent possibla and uneconomic autarchic
war economy. Durin? the war these companies have continued to
enjoy high priority preferential treatment in the supply of
materials, equipment and mannower under direct control of the
competent Cabinet Ministers. The number of such companios
operating in Janan proner has considerably increased since 1941.
By 1943, there were no less than 480 of these policy companies
operating in Japan proper. (See Appendix XxV for a list.)
4. Eidan or Corporations
The Eidan (possibly an abbreviation of Eigyo Dantai)
are state-managed and sometimes partially or wholly government
financed coroorations established to engage in enterprises and
activitias which are frequently uneconomic in character, but
essential to the war effort such as the importation of vitally
needed raw materials regardless of cost, the purchase of vital
raw materials within Janan and control of their movement, the
purchasa of outworn equipment, liquidation of enterprises which,
because of their smallness or lack o. technical efficiency, are
unsuited for war production purposes, construction of housing
for war workers, farn development projects, the selling, pur-
chasing, and manufacturing of important food-stuffs, improva
medical and hospital facilities, etc. A briaf description of
a number of these Eidan will give a picture of their functions
and relation to the control of the war economy.
(a) Industrial Facilities Business Corporation
(Sangyo Setsubi Hidan)
This ccrporation was organized by the government on
December 27, 1942 with an authorlzed capitalization of 200,000,000
yen. The government issued bonds at a price of 95.9 yen per
hundred yen bond to ccver this capitalization. The purpose of
the corporation was to purchase or transform the equipment of
facilities of idle and unfinished industrial establishments under
the guidance and authority of the Commerce and Industry Ministry
to make them of use for munitions production. With the permission
of the government authorities such industrial establishments can
be rented out to munitions companies or other concerns for the
production of munitions or other essential products. It was pro
vided that Article 16 of the General Mobilization Law could be
invoked against owners of such idle anl unfinished plants who
might be unwilling to sell them or refuse to convert them to war
production.
16 041 p23 bu

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
- 20 -
(b) Essential Materials Supervision Corporation
(Juyo Busshi Kanri Sidan)
This corporation was organized under Law No. 69, dated
February 24, 1942, with a capitalization of 20,000,000 yen,
supplied entirely by the government (See Appendix XVIII). The
purpose of the corporation was, "To guarantee and increase
stocks of essential materials in wartime; to provide for efficient
and adequate utilization of the stored essential materials". The
corporation was to provide for the storage of essential materials
either in its own facilities or to order others to do so. It was
to purchase locally or through importation essential materials, to
stockpile them and sell them under priority allocations to war
industries. It possibly took over control of warehoused enemy
materials. The Corporation can demand reports on stored materials
and inspoct books of ccncerns holding such stocks.
There is no provision for issuing of debentures, nor for
covering losses, the government absorbing all losses. Penalties
are provided in case of negligence on the part of the corporation's
officials. With the establishment of the Koeki Eidan in July
1943, the functions of this organization were absorbed into it.
(c) Regional Trading Corporation (Koeki Bidan)
The Koeki Eidan was established by the Government in July
1943 and placed under the supervision of the Greater East Asia
Ministry to centralize, and make more direct than in the past,
government control over all export and import trade, to relate
that trade directly to the war effort by assuring that the
greatly restricted flow of exports be directed to secure essential
commodity imports for war industries and to assure that the mini-
mum exports allowed be made available for export and not find their
way into the domestic markets. (For details see the Foreign Trade
Guide.)
The corporation absorbed the functions of the Essential
Materials Supervision Corporation and supervised the over-all Trade
Control Society, organized January 27, 1942, composed of 83 com-
panies and 90 guilds (renamed Japan Trade Association May 4, 1942).
One major wartime problem confronting the
Japanese was to assure that articles would be made available for
export necessary to obtain a return flow of vitally needed imports.
There existed within Japan such a vast unsatisfied demand for the
same articles for which high prices could be paid that a rigid con-
trol, under what the Japanese called the "link system", had to be
maintained. The link-system began to develop in l937 and was de-
signed to link the raw material imports to their finished end-
product for export to assure that all the end-products would not be
absorbed in the domestic market. This was done by designating
certain factories to produce the end-products for export and
allocating raw material imports to them accordingly. This practice
was continued after the war started as evidenced in regulations
on articles for exportation issued March 5, 1,42 (see Appendix XXII).
16 041 p24 bu

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.99)
-21 -
U..doubtadly the Koeki Eidan continued to operate the link system
to obtain the same objectives. As M.G. may be faced with the
same problem, a descrintion of the link system as it worked
before the war has been appended to this guide. (See Appendices
XXIII, XXIV.)
With the establishment of the Koeki Eidan (Koeki may be
translated as Regional, or Zonal, i.e., greater East Asia Sphere
trade) Japan further abandoned liberal trading principles and
set up a virtual state controlled trade (See Appendix XXI).
In order to simplify control the number of persons and firms
engaged in exnort and import "barter" trade numbering over
6,000 in 1942 was reduced to 600 by the end of 1943. The Kooki
Eidan operated in cooperation with a number of associations to
which most of the remaining 670 firns belonged. These associa-
tions served as agents of the Eidan. Expcrt firms which exported
more than five kinds of goods exceeding an average value of
5,000,000 yen during the years 1941 and 1942 were allowed to
continue business. all others were to be merged according to
order from the greater East Asia Ministry under whose super-
vision the Koeki Eidan operated.
The minimum yearly turnover of importers was also fixed
at 5,000,000 yen. Importers who did not achieve this minimum in
the past were not allowed to merge but were compelled to give up
the import business. They received up to l00,000 yen compensation
paid either by the exporters' guilds or by the Kooki Associations
(Koeki Kyokni) organized into the Japan Trade Control Society.
This latter society was reported to have established a Regional
Trade Adjustment Committee consisting of 39 members divided into
19 sub-committees according to kind of goods to be exported and
one sub-committee dealing with imports. The Committee was en-
trusted with handling imoorts, conducting research, giving neces-
sary advice, and answering questions asked by the government.
The scope of the powers of the Kooki Eidan was broad.
It had control over the import and export of commodities and
the purchase and sale of same in connection with their import
and export. It was responsible for warehousing, controlling the
movement, purchasing and selling certain imported vital war
materials. It could engage in auxiliary activities as the need
arose reiated to the above activities. It also had the respon-
sibility for adjusting commodity prices in the Greater East
Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere. It was to carry out its trading
function and vital resources control function in accordance with
an annual plan laid down by the government subject to readjust-
ment every three months in accordance with the changing supply
and demand situaticn. It might allow other legal persons or in-
stitutions to carry out a part of its business with the approval
of the government. In that case the corporation or institution
which participated was considered as the part of the staff of
Midan. When the organization was first established 687 erticles
18 041 p25 bu

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
- 22 -
were designated for import. Later the list was lengthened.
Exclusive of rice, wheat, tobacco, charcoal and salt, ranged
all the way from iron and coal down to towels and shoe-strings.
The export business was carried on in two ways: (1) Direct
export by the Eidan, (2) Export by entrusted export organizations.
Such entrusted organizations were the Japan Controlling Company
for Grocery Trade, Japan Export Promotion Company for leather
products, the respective Japan Export Associations for Brushes,
for Textile Materials, for Furs, for Tea, for Agricultural Pro-
ducts for Greens and Fruits and for Marine Products. The import
business was either carried on directly or by entrusting persons
to carry it on. Regions covered were Kuantung, Leased Territory,
Manchuria, China, Thailand, French Indo-China, Germany and Italy.
The Southern Regions under Military control were excluded.
Its control over vital resources covered: (1) iron and
steel, raw materials, for iron and steel, and iron and steel pro-
ducts, (2) non-ferrous metals, their raw materials and products,
(3) textile products and raw materials, (4) medicine, medical in-
struments and other materials for hygienic purposes; and (5) other
materials as designated by the appropriate ministries. To carry
out this function a section on control and planning was set up in
the planning department of the organization.
The Eidan had the function of purchasing unutilized raw
materials in one factory and moving it to another as needed.
It had the responsibility for purchasing and ware-housing
and conserving materials needed for emergency relief such as
lumber, galvanized shooting, nails and also medicines.
Certain vital materials such as coal, cotton and bauxite
were put in charge of the respective Control Societies of the
industries utilizing them but the Eidan had continued supervising
control over their disposition.
It had control over such stocks of materials and com-
modities assigned for export when war broke out as still remained
in Japan.
It purchased and controlled luxuries, confiscated enamy
goods, artificial silk pulp and raw rubber.
It had control over enemy properties.
Its auxiliary business consisted of the managoment of
warehouses in which the commodities under its control were stored;
supply of materials for mamufacture of goods for export and providing
loans.
10 041 p26 bu

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
-23 -
It thus plays a role roughly parallel to the Foreign
Economic Administration, the U.S. Commercial Ccmpany, and
the Alien Property Custodian in the U.S.
Among the other Eidan was one to provide housing for
civilian workers. It was established May 1, 194l, with an
authorized capitalization of 100,000,000 yen, 56,723,640 yen
of which was paid up by 1943 all by the government. The
headquarters were Tokyo with a branch office in Yokahama,
Osaka, Nagoya, Hiroshima, Fukuoka and Sendai. Another was
the Central Food Administration Corporation established Sep-
tember 1, 1942. The authorized capitalization was 100,000,000
yen, of which 30,000,000 yen was invested by the government.
The purpose was to control the preservation and distribution
of food under government direction. It had branches in Otaru,
Sendai, Nagoya, Osaka, Robe, Takamatau and Moji and field of-
fices located in Niigata, Toyama, Mito, Yokohama, Shizuoka,
Kyoto, Okayama, Hiroshima, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, Kagoshima, and
Taihoku. In addition there was on Eidan governing local food
administration with offices in each prefecture and metropoli-
tan area.
This completes the descriptive survey of the major
governmental and quasi-governmental agencies exercising eco-
nomic controls at the national level. There should, however,
be mentioned in passing the various and frequently changing
Cabinet advisory boards and councils in which the represent-
atives of the largest industrial combines found a place. Their
existence represents an effort to compromise the conflicts
which arose among the bureaucrats; the military and industri-
alists. Through these advisory councils and through the posi-
tions hald in the Cabinet by representatives of the combines,
the big industrialists have retained a position of influence
in the formulation of policy and its administration. In ad-
dition there existed a mumber of industrial councils made up
of representatives from industry who advise the various min-
istries and assist in the coordination of production program.
III. Controls at the Regional Level
The development of the administration of economic con-
trols at a regional level began in June 1943, when Japan pro-
per was divided into nine administrative regions. The purpose
at that time was to simplify administration by eliminating the
excessive bureaucratic red-tape and jurisdictional conflicts
16 041 p27. b

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.99)
- 24 -
which arose out of the exercise of controls at the lovel of
the 47 little prefectures under which the country had been
administered since the latter half of the past century. At
the same time the "Presidents" of these nine regions were
given rank equivalent to that of a Cabinet Minister and were
to report directly to the Premier. The ultimate aim was to
develop regional economic self-sufficiency for war purposes.
In February of 1945 the number of regions was reduced
to eight, by which time they coincided exactly with the six
military districts into which the country was divided - one
of the military districts, called the "Central District",
containing three of the administrative regions. On June 23,
1945 this Central Army District was divided into three parts
exactly along the lines of the three administrative regions
formerly located within it. Thus by that time the eight Army
Districts coincided with the eight Regional Districts and wera
called by the following names: Hokkai, Tonoku, Kanto-Shinetsu,
Tokai-Hokuriku, Kinki, Chugoku, Chikoku, and Kyushu. (For a
list of the prefectures included in each region and the name
of the head city where the regional administrative control of-
fices are located, see Appendix I).
In June 1945 the Government, under the imminent threat
of invasion, laid the basis for the extension to the eight
regions administrative autonony in the event any one or more
of them should be cut off fron contact witn the central re-
gime. On June l0th the regional administration offices were
reorganized into Regional General Superintendents-General Of-
fices with a Superintendent-General in charge of each. The
personnel of the offices began to be strangthaned by trans-
ferring officials from the Ministries to these Offices. The
basis for the authority of these Offices was provided for in
the Extraordinary War Measures Bill passed on June 12. Under
this Bill the Diet surrendered to the Government, its powers
for the duration of the war. In the bill the tarm "Govern-
ment" was defined to include the new Regicnal Superintendents-
General. The powers conferred under this Bill were total in
scope and subject only to an Imperial check. Unlike the Na-
tional General Mobilization Law, first passed in 1938, the
Bill provides for unlimited power to be exarcised by the Gov-
ernnent which can exercise its powers not only through the
issuance of Inperial decrees but through Ministerial ordi-
nances and regulations. These same powers can be exercised
by the Superintendents-General in case of emergencies. All
previous legislation, ordinances and decrees can be set aside
insofar as the Government determines to do so and new
16 041 p28 bu

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
- 25 -
regulations and controls established. The broad powers thus
potentially conferrable on the Regional Superintendents-
General have been set forth above.
The regional Munitions Superintendence Bureaus were
retained and incorporated into the structure of the new Super-
intendents-General Offices. The regional Munitions Bureaus
were originally set up by the Munitions Ministry and were de-
signed to supervise over-all production programs at a regional
level. Their function was to supervise and coordinate produo-
tion programs among the Munitions Companies within each region
and to coordinate the production of the members of the Control
Societies within the region to that of the Munitions Companies,
depending upon them for raw materials and semi-finished pro-
ducts. Under the re-organization of June 1945 they will not
only exercise their former functions, but also will exercise
broader controls undoubtedly as the war goes on. An indica-
tion of this is seen in a Tokyo broadcast to the home audience
in June 1945 to the effect that the control over the disposal
or purchase of special ores and ferro-alloys formerly exercised
by the Munitiona Ministry will henceforth be carried out in ac-
cordance with distribution regulations of the local Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus.
To serve in an advisory capacity to the Regional Super-
intendents-Ganeral it was proposed in June that in addition to
the members of the prefectural and other local administrative
councils, that members of the Diet living in a region and other
leading individuals be organized into a Councll.
It is apparent that the trend toward decentralization
had by June 1945 placed in the hands of the regional author-
ities responsibility for directly controlling war production
programs under over-all plans laid down in Tokyo by the Cab-
inet in general and the Munitions Ministry in particular.
This is of significance to M.G. in their own planning as the
utilization of this same regional basis for the administration
of their own programs and the subordination of prefectural con-
trols to regional controls would serve to simplify the problems
of coordination which will arise.
IV. Controls at the Prefectural and Municipal Level
While the operational controls exercised at the region-
al level largely concerned themselves with the production of
war materials those at the local administrative level were re-
lated to the production of food and civilian commoditios in
16 041 p80 bu

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.99)
- 26 -
general required to meet the mininum needs of the people as
a whole. Such controls were of course exercised under the
direct supervision of responsible Ministrios in Tokyo. (For
details on the administrative crganization and functions of
local government, see Civil Affairs Handbook; Japan, Section,
2 A and 2 B, Government and Administratlon- Local Goverament).
The trend toward decentralization outlined above with respect
to the regions likewise affected the responsibilities of the
local administrative units. In May 1944 many functions for-
merly exercised by the central government were delegated to
the prefecture. The Home Ministry transferred 5l functions
including the right to authorize the construction of public
utilities costing less than 100,000 yen, the rights to author-
ize improvements of rivers, bridges, and urban dwellings, etc.
The Munitions Ministry transferred controls over the acquisi-
tion of raw materials and production of goods peculiar to cer-
tain local regions, while the Agriculture and Forestry Min-
istry transferred supervision over crop improvements and lo-
cal marketing facilities.
In general the major aim was to allow the prefectures
greater freedom to cooperate with the regional administration
in developing regional self-sufficiency in supplying the needs
of the people and maintaining public services. In order to
coordinate the functions of the various prefoctures in a re-
gion with that of the regional adrinistrations, local and re-
gional Administrative Councils wera set up in March 1944 in-
cluding representatives from the local monopoly bureaus, lo-
cal fuel bureaus, local communications bureaus, railway bureaus,
Marine transportation bureaus and mines superintendence bureaus.
The chiefs of the Munitions Superintendencies became members
of these Councils at that time.
To draw the small and medium-sized local commercial and
industrial interests closer into the net-work of controls a
law was promulgated on March 12, 1943, setting up Commercial
and Industrial Economic Boards in order to supervise and con-
trol their activities under the "leaderahip principle". (See
Appendix XIX, XX). As the Boards were set up the former
Chambers of Commerce and Industry were abolished. The new
Boards were to be more broadly representative of local in-
terest than the former Chambers whose membership was confined
largely to the urban areas. The Boards were to assist lo-
cal authorities in coordinating local production programs and
to supplement the vertical controls exercised by the Control
Associations and Societies by horizontal controls extending
across all lines of production. However the Boards exercised
16 041 p30 bu

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.97)
- 27 -
only advisory and educational functions so as not to con-
flict with the stronger vertical controls exercised at re-
gional and national levels. They were to organize regula-
ting groups in urban and rural areas to facilitate the
wors of the government in carrying out governmental regule-
tions and maintain liaison function with local Control Asso-
ciation (Tosei-Kumisi) into which even small enterprises
at the mura or village level were oryanized.
The chairman of the Boards had dominate power. They
were appointed by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry from
lists submitted by the prefectural governors. Directore
were appointed by the prefectural governors. Both chairman
and directors were on a salary basis. Menbers represent all
types and sizes of business. Biy concerns wore represented
by individuals and small concerns by their respective group
organizations. There were thrae types of menbers: (1) In-
dividuals representative of conparativaly large firas paying
above a fixed amount of tax, (2) Commerclal and industrial
associations, trade association, ets., (3) Groups connected
with the economy but not in a profit-making manner or regula-
tory capacity such as Councils, Foderations of Associations,
Factory Societios, Research groupe, etc.
In the fall of 1943 it aprears that the Boards were
reorganized on a regional basis with branch offices at of
each regional administrative cantar.
These Boards, after reorganization to afford more
democratic representation of small enterprises to make it
possible for them to express their will through a council,
could be of ald to M.G. by advising on the civilian neeus of
each prefecture or region and recommend channels throuzh
which materials could be sold and to recommend to whom to
grant needed credits.
1A 0€1 P31 DU

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.99)
-28-
PART III
RECOMMENDATIONS
I. Military Government's concern in the administration of production
programs in Japan.
Objectives governing the administration of production
programs by Military Government.
Subject to the restrictions imposed by policy direc-
tives with respect to the Disarmament of Japan and
the prevention of the redevelopment of the Japanese
war potential Military Government will be concerned
with the administration of production programs. in
order to:
1. Produce goods to supply the needs of the occupy-
ing forces.
2.
Produce consumer goods to provide for the min-
imum essential needs of the civilian population
and reduce the necessity for imports.
3. Produce goods for export, the first charge against
which will be for the payment of approved es-
sential imports.
4. Provide capital goods to repair and maintain:
a. The equipment of factorias and facilities
producing the goods for the above four pur-
poses;
b.
Essential public utilities;
c.
Essential communications and transportation.
5. Provide solid and liquid fuels.
6. Provide essential housing and building materials.
7.
Administer production programs in such a manner as
to create conditions favorable to the emergence
and growth of democratic forces in Japan.
The term "Administration of Production Programs" as used in
this guide is defined as covering all activities involved in
the processing of supplies from raw materials to the finished
product, but does not include such portions of specific indus-
tries as normally do not utilize industrial processes such as
agriculture and fisheries with respect to which activities
special guides have been prepared.
10 041 p32 bu

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
- 29 -
II. The general situation which will confront Military Gov-
ernment in Japan.
Whether the occupation of Japan be partial or complute
or of short or long duration Military Government will need to
concern itself in production programs to attain the objectives
outlined above due to universal shortages of vital raw mate-
rials and consumer goods which will obtain. Moreover, the de-
struction or breakdown of transportation facilities and public
utilities will effect every area of Japan in varying degree
and require a control over production, allocation and movement
of •quipment and repairs to restore the most essential facil-
itias.
The efforts of the Japanese authorities since 1943 to
establish economic self-sufficiency on a regional basis will
have attained at most only a temporary effectivaness through
stock-piling of supplies traditionally deficient in particular
areas. By the time of invasion these stock-piles of consumer
goods and repair equipment may well be destroyed or used up
creating a situation in which essential supplies will have to
be brought in from other aress normally producing surpluses
or where destruction will have been less widespread. This
situation will necessitate the application of M.G. control
to deternine where such relative "surpluses" may exist and
to order their transfer to areas where they may be most needed.
This is a problem that cannot be left to the Japanese alone to
solve. Under the impact of invasion M.G. must be prepared to
fact a chaotic condition in which practically all cantralized
controls will have broken down, while regional controls will
be largely ineffective if only due to the fact the top-ranking
officials will probably disappear, particularly if their
families live elsewhere. Under calamitous conditions the
Japanese officials will tend to think first of their family,
second of their local and prefectural region and last of their
responsibilities to the state. Consequently only some of the
regional and prefectural controls will be operating to any ef-
fective extent with lower-ranking local officials on hand.
Because of their outlook and interests local officials will
not be concerned about supplying other areas and will seek
to retain and conceal stocks for local use and to exaggerate
local needs. Consequently M.G. will have to take direct
charge of top regional and central controls and order Japan-
ese officials to carry out allocation and production programs
which they have drawn up with Japanese assistance as discussed
below. Japanese officials may have to be ordered back to their
posts or assume new positions in areas to which they may have fled.
16 041 p33 bu

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.99)
- 30 -
In the event that the occupation of Japan occurs only
after surrender possibly a more orderly government set-up
will obtain and M.G. will be able more quickly to establish
its over-all controls which can be more supervisory and in-
direct in character than if the occupation occurs only after
invasion and fighting.
III. Methods for exercising economic controls.
Due to the probable shortages of some key raw mate-
rials and of available facilities for processing the end-
products with which M.G. is concerned priority and allocations
controls supplemented by credit controls should be established.
As a rule only key materials in short supply will need to
have priority and allocating controls. However, due to
transportation difficulties, the movement of all materials
may have to be under control to assure that all essential mate-
rials have priority of movement from sources of supply to
plant facilities and then end-products distributed according
to need.
As a general rule production of items not on M.G.'s
priority listing of requirements or beyond the amounts M.G.
allocates to meet its objectives should be allowed provid-
ing (1) it does not require utilization of facilities banned
by M.G. because of their war-potential character (2) does
not utilize materials in short supply and (3) does not im-
pede the movement of priority raw materials and end-products.
In other words, M.G. need concern itself directly only with
its own priority production programs and limit its concern
with all other production to see that it does not interfere
with M.G.'s production programs nor break security objectives
with respect to disarmament or utilize banned facilities
ordered shut down for whatev-r reason by M.G. authorities.
Local M.G. authcrities should permit, under their gen-
eral supervision, the production of items not included in the
above lists, which require only local materials and which are
essential to meet civilian needs either locally or elsewhere,
or for the export insofar as their production does not inter-
fere with the fulfillment of the above pricrity program.
There are three major ways in which to control produc-
tion programs, namely through the granting of priorities, of
allocations, and of credits.
A. Priorities.
16 041 p34 bu

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.99)
-31-
Priorities should be established to maintain at the
highest feasible level the production of:
1. Products of first priority which are those re-
quired by military forces, both in the pre-surrender and
post-surrender periods, and the fuels, materials, equlpment
including maintenance and repair items, required to produce
them.
2. Products of second priority which are those re-
quired to supply minimum essential civilian requirements
such as food products, medical supplies, clothing and tex-
tiles, bicycles, household equipment, sanitation supplies,
soad, liquid and solid fuels, fertilizers and the fuels,
materials and equipment, including repair and maintenance
items, required to produce them.
3. Products of third priority (possibly occuring
only in the post-surrender period) to supply goods for ex-
port, the first charge against which will be for the pur-
chase of essential imports to meet above production prior-
ities.
B. Allocations.
Japanese authorities operating under M.G. should be
ordered to allocate fuels, raw materials, semi-finished and
finished goods, items for maintenance and repairs on the
following priority basis:
1. To meet the requirements of the armed forces.
2.
To meet transportation requirements to meet
civilian needs for agricultural products, the
processing of food products, medical supplies,
sanitation supplies, soap and fertilizers.
3.
To meet requirements for the production of cloth-
ing, textiles and footwear, farm equipment and
implements, bicycles, and household equipment.
4. To meet any authorized export requirements.
C. Credits.
M.G. through its control over the financing facilities
of the Bank of Japan (see Guide on Control and Use of the
18 041 p35 bu

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.99)
- 32 -
Bank of Japan during the period of Military Government) will
have in its hands an instrument for sunplementing its priority
and allocation controls. The devastation caused by the war
and the attendant shortages of raw materials and capital goods
accompanied by rising prices will necessitate the extension of
credit to enterprises authorized by M.G. to produce essential
materials. By coordinating credit authorizations with prior-
ity allocations, M.G. can channel the flow of scarce materials
into the enterprises producing priority goods. As states in
the guide on Control and Use of the Bink of Japan, Section on
Financing of Industrial Activities "in cases in which corporate
funds are inadequate and bank loans are not readily avallable,
industrial enterprises essential for the administration and
maintenance of the minimum civilian economy of the country
should be permitted direct access to the financing facilities
of the Bank of Japan. For these purposes, the Bank of Japan
should undertake directly those types of industrial finance,
operations which were formerly performed by the Industrial
Bank of Japan and other banks. It should provide short-term
credit to industrial enterprises by discounting three to nine
months bills secured by contracts with orders of the Civil Af-
fairs and other military authorities, or Japanese governmental
organs with the approval of the Civil Affairs authorities."
Reorganized local conmercial and industrial associations
(Kumiai) made up in large part of cooperativa enterprises and
small and medium-sized business producing consumer's goods
should especially receive the support of M.G. in the way au-
thorized credit extensions as most of the members will have
no funds while many of them will have been forced out of pro-
duction for civilian use by the war economy.
The adoption of a liberal credit policy with respect to
small and medium-sized local producers of civilian goods for
the domestic market will relieve M.G. of many of its most press-
ing problems. As these incentive goods start flowing into the
markets farmers will be led to exnand production of foodstuffs,
curtailing inflationary trends and permitting a gradual relax-
ing of rationing and price controls.
In the case of larger established enterprises with
whose products M.G. is concerned the Bank of Japan should make
advances on the security of government bonds, corporate de-
bentures, equipment certificates and general mortgages on in-
dustrial properties.
IV. Recommendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
control agencies and control regulations.
16 041 p36 bu

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.99)
- 33 -
A. General Recommendations. In zeneral M.G. at the out-
set of the occupation should maintain in force laws and re-
gulations relating to the conirol of industry and allocation
of fuels, power, raw naterials, semi-finished goods, items
for maintenance and repair subject to subsequent directives
fron higher authorities as to amendments, abrogation, etc.
Likewise M.G. at the outset should maintain or re-establish
local agencies responsible for the administration and enforce-
ment of such laws and regulstions as are maintained in force
and require officials and employees of such agencies, to con-
tinue with or return to their functions.
The principles governing the utilization, abrogation, or mod-
ification of existing Japanese controls should have two major
objectives. First, the re-direction of the flow of materials
from war production into civilian production channels and the
production of equipment for the restoration and maintenance
of essential transportation and public utilities. Wartime
restrictions on the utilization of materials for such purposes
and to meet M.C. priority production programs should be re-
laxed. Secondly, in accordance with long-range U.S. nolicy
objectives, M.C. should exercise its controls and reorganize
or abolish Japanese agencies in order to re-direct Japanese
war-time economy into a free enterprise, competitive economy
in which small and medium-sized enterprises are unstiffled
by excessive government controls or by the cartels and the com-
bines. By according small and medium-sized enterprises demo-
cratic representation in the conduct of the affairs of the as-
sociations to which they belong, by giving them a strong posi-
tion in any advisory councils and by granting them higher
priorities than the large enterprises and combines, that have
sided and abetted the war policies of Japan, with respect to
power, credits and raw materials, M.G. can help these smaller
enterprises to get on their feet first. The hope of encourag-
ing the emergence of a democratic Japan resting upon a strong
middle class lies in the strength and position of the small
and medium-sized producers and distributors in the economy.
From the outset of the occupation M.G. can give a bent and di-
rection to Jananese economy wh.ich will hasten the achievement
of long-range U.S. objectives. There is every reason to be-
lieve that such an economic policy would meet with wide-spread
approval in Japan, and lead to the cooperation of the people as
a whole with M.G.'s programs.
10 041 p37 bu

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.99)
- 34 -
B. Utilization of Japanese control agencies at the nation-
al lovel.
Whether or not M.G. deals with or replaces the Minis-
tries, the Munitions Ministry should be abolished and such of
its war-time functions and controls as are needed to obtain M.G.
objectives should be transferred back to the old-line Ministries
together with unpurged personnel, and its records preserved.
The designated 400 odd munitions companies, which operated under
its supervision and under the more direct control and super-
vision of the Army and Navy Ministries, should, in principle be
closed down and only those most essential and most readily con-
vertible to line of production in which M.G. is interested be
re-opened (for details and exceptions see industry guidos and
the guide on war industries). M.G.'s policy should be to favor,
first, small and medium-sized plants which continued to produce
commodities during the war in which M.G. is interested, and
secondly, such small and medium-sized plants as were more or
less converted to war production on a contract or sub-contract
basis with the designated munitions companies. Any large muni-
tions plants M.G. might need to operate should be operated
directly under M.G. supervision in accordance with general
policy directives and the recommendations in the respective
industry guides.
M.G. in accordance with procedures set forth in the appropriate
Property Guide, should directly concern itself with assets,
property and facilities of all National Policy Companies and
all Eidan or public corporations. (See Part II, B, 3 and d).
Insofar as M.G. finds it useful to continue the operation of
any of the facilities of government managed or owned agencies
and monopolies or utilize their organization and materials it
may do so. It is conceivable, for example, that the Koeki
Eidan, which controls foreign trade, might be utilized should
M.G. be confronted with the necessity of assembling commodities
for export, or the Emergency Housing Eidan might be utilized
for building barracks, etc.
C. Utilization of Japanese control agencies at the region-
al and local levels.
The large extent to which Japan has decentralized its
operational controls on a regional basis, as discussed above
Part II, C, forms the basis for the recommendations below
that M.G. do likewise and base its operational controls at
that level and subordinate prefectural agencies of control to
16 041 p38 bu

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.99)
-35-
the regional set-up. Production programs and controls could
then be centralised and coordinated on a regional basis and
Japanese agencies and mechanisms could be more readily adapted
and utilised. The Regional Superintendents General Offices
could be charged with the responsibility for developing pro-
grams. The Munitions Superintendence Bureaus attached to
such offices should be abolished and replaced by a central
planning and control unit. It is suggested that there be at-
tached to the offices of M.G.'s regional production agencies
advisory councils made up of representatives of industrial
and commercial interests of the region. Such coundils should
adequately represent small and medium sised interests who
should hold a majority of the places on the councils and be
able to out-vote representatives of large firms having facil-
ities in a specific region. The chairman of the councils
should be democratically selected by the members subject only
to the approval of M.G. The regional organisations of the
Commercial and Industrial Boards, discussed above Part II, D,
should be utilised and adapted to fit this advisory function.
With the majority of the 400 odd munitions companies plants
either destroyed prior to occupation or shut down by M.G.,
the facilities left available for approved production pro-
grams will be those vertically organized into the Control
Societies (Tosei-kai) and their subsidiary Content Associa-
tions (Tosei Kumiai), (for a description of these see Part
II, B, 3a). The Control Society itself is a quasi-govern-
mental control agency as the Chairman and Board of Directors
were government appointed and had transferred to them offi-
cial administrative powers. Through them the government has
been able to extend its control over all industry down to the
small locally organized Kumiai or industrial or commercial
associations. In order to establish a free-enterprise, com-
potitive economy the Control Societies and Control Associa-
tions should be abolished and their assets and property placed
under oustody and the Kumiai reorganized along voluntary co-
operative lines on a local or prefectural basis. Equal voting
rights should be assured to prevent renewed domination of the
Kumiai by the large concerns representing the combines who in
the past have, through finanoial controls and cartelization
techniques, tended either to force them to merge or to go out
of business. Since 1937 and to a greater extent after 1941
thousands of small producers supplying the domestic consumers
and to some extent foreign markets have been foroed out of
business pressure from the government and combines. In the
post-surrender period many of them will seek to get back into
their former production and distribution activities again.
10 n41 p39 bu

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.99)
-36 -
The great demand for locally produced consumer goods will give
them an enticing market. M.G. should encourage them by allow-
ing them to reorganize along cooperative democratic lines, al-
locate materials and equipment to them and grant them credits.
The restraints and controls exercised by the Control Societies
under government direction on a nation-wide basis should be
abolished. As recommended above the regional and central Con-
trol Societies' offices, records and staffs, below that of
Presidents and Directorys can be utilized by M.G. to obtain
over-all information on the regional set-up of the industry
as it obtains at the time of occupation for i.G.'s planning
and control purposes.
As M.G.'s first problems with respect to Japan's economy will
probably arise at the sub-prefectural and prefectural level
the above policy vis-a-vis the small and medium sised local
producers of civilian goods should be put into effect at the
outset. By encouraging the existing and former local pro-
ducers and distributors freely to organize themselves, as they
will instinctively want to do, into cooperative, and demo-
cratically run organizations M.G. will at one and the same
time relieve itself of many problems connected with consumer
goods production and re-orientate Japanese econony to peace-
time production for the domestic market, first, and ultimate-
ly to the kind of export production Japan may be permitted
to engage in.
V. Recommendations concerning the utilization of Japanese
personnel.
In consonance with the general policy directives with
respect to the principles set up covering the utilization of
Japanese personnel, officials and others, or in accordance
with prepared lists of people to be purged, M.G. should avoid
using all officials who since July 7, 1937 have held positions
of Shin-nin and Choku-nin ranks or positions of equivalent im-
portance in the Japanese government ministries, regional and
prefectural offices and control agencies; all Presidents,
Directors, and members of Boards of Trustees of the Control
Societies and Control Associations; high executives of National
Policy Companies and Eidan; governmentally designed individuals
responsible for production in the Munitions Companies, the top
officials in charge of the Munitions Superintendence Bureaus,
Chairman or heads of Economic Industrial Boards, etc. Japanese
who have held similar high-ranking positions outside of Japan;
who have been in active military or naval service since July 7,
194l; who have held directive positions in the Imperial Rule
10 041 p40 bu

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.99)
-37-
Assistance Associations or its successors together with their
affiliated organizations; and those who have been members of
"patriotic societies" of extreme nationalist tendencies should
not be utilized.
VI. Recommendation concerning the protection of records,
plants, etc.
M.G. should hold designated Japanese officials and
employees of quasi-governmental agencies, officials and em-
ployees of industrial and other business associations and of
individual companies and organizations strictly responsible
for the protection from destruction and the preservation in-
tact of all funds, property, equipment, and records of all
government agencies; all plants, mines, property, stocks of
materials on hand, equipment and patents; and all books and
records of companies and organizations and trade and research
associations.
VII. Recommendations concerning reporting.
It is recommended Japanese officials and such govern-
mental and quasi-governmental agencies, private organisations
and individuals as may be designated by M.G. be required to
submit initial reports and thereafter current reports covering
the following points.
A. For each factory or establishment employing or capable
of employing 10-15 (possibly 30) or more employees (a) name
and location; (b) stocks on hand, supplies and finished goods
on hand, capacity and current production; (c) how much electric
power or fuel, lubricants, raw material, machinery and machine
tools, and manpower is necessary to maintain full production;
(d) feasibility of converting a war plant to other production
and equipment required to do so; (e) patents and processes em-
ployed; (f) current state of equipment and repair items needed,
etc.
B. Reporting on establishments employing 10-15 (possibly 30)
or less employees, it is suggested might be done on a sub-pre-
fectural territorial basis such as the mura or groups of mura
by the associations or cooperatives (kumiai) into which they
are organized placing upon the associations responsibility
therefor.
C. For each prefeoture designated Japanese officials, as-
sisted by an advisory council democratically representative of
16 041 p41 bu

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.98)
-38 -
of small, medium and large sized commercial, agricultural,
and industrial interests in the area should prepare an over
all report on a quarterly basis setting forth:
1. Minimum civilian requirements for food, clothing,
household equipment, medical supplies, etc; to-
gether with current prices for same.
2. What portion of these requirements can be met by
local production using local materials consequently
showing what finished products and raw materials
must be brought into the prefecture.
3. What surplus production for distribution elsewhere
the prefecture is capable of supplying.
4.
What essential public utilities and services need
repair and restoration to maintain essential eco-
nomy and what supplies will be needed.
5. A census of the prefecture on an age, occupation,
and residential basis. The census should show
number of displaced persons in prefecture, in-
cluding family relatives who did not live in pre-
fecture before war started, and the number of
aliens including Koreans.
6. Any other reports required by the regional or cen-
tral control agencies to inform them on conditions
locally or which would enable them to determine
what portion of Japanese wartime controls to util-
ise to attain M.G. objectives in consonance with
U.S. long-range policy vis-à-vis Japan.
7. The M.G. regional agencies might utilise the re-
cords and personnel of regional branch offioes of
the Gontrol Associations to report on membership
status, facilities, production capacities, condition,
and ros material requirements of all individual and
grou? or association members (Tosei-Kaisha and Tosei
Kumiai).
They should also be asked to report on what equipment
would be necessary to convert to civilian pro-
duction. Each major concern might be required to
report percentage of production which went into
munitions and what percentage went into civilian
16 041 p42 bu

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.99)
-39 -
meeds. This would afford a basis upon which to
allocate materials to concerns or associations
that had retained during the war a predominately
civilian line of production and could continue
to produce without the necessity of converting.
Facilities utilised directly or indirectly for
mmitions purposes should obtain lowest priority
or be entirely shut down. Those putting out
munitions end-products will of course be shut
dowm. The Control Societies as such, however,
should be abolished as recommended above under
IV, c.
VIII. Recommendation concerning sabotage and the enforcement
of M.G. Controls.
Through its controls over the flow of vital materials
M.G. has in its hands the power to lessen or increase that
flow to areas or regions in accordance with the degree of
cooperation obtained. In areas or regions where sabotage is
frequent or widespread, where materials are misused or pro-
duction schedules are not maintained without justifiable
reasons, the allocations of power or materials to such re-
gions or areas can be curtailed. In other words, punishment
should not be limited to individuals or even to plants unless
cases of sabotage, etc. are few and widely scattered, but
should be extended to the whole community or area. This
would fix responsibility on the area as a whole and engender
cooperation with M.G. in suppressing sabotage, and in meet-
ing production schedules. In no case should materials be
cut off to the point where minimum essential civilian needs
cannot be met. Rather the emphasis should be on regarding
areas that cooperate by increasing the availability of civil-
ian supplies, while designated Japanese officials and individ-
uals or associations could be held initially responsible for
enforcing controls and meeting production schedules.
IX. Suggestions concerning Military Government's organization
for the administration of production programs.
A. Central Organization.
It is suggested that M.G., because of its concern in
production programs as outlined above, set up at central head-
quarters a production control agency which will include a plan-
ning and control umit. This unit, on the basis of reports sub-
mitted by the functional units of the central agency as to
16 041 p43 bu

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.99)
- 40 -
requirements, and the availability of facilities and mate-
rials in the occupied region as a whole, could draw up pri-
ority production schedules and allocate production quotas,
key raw materials, credit, and power accordingly and deter-
mine the distribution of the end-products in accordance with
the needs of M.G. first, of the civilian population, second-
ly, and eventually if and when foreign trade is resumed, to
determine what proportion of the production in any given
line shall be made available for export. Such programming
and allocating should be worked out from the outset if pos-
sible on a quarterly basis bearing in mind in that connec-
tion that the Japanese controlled production year extends
from April 1 to March 30 and the first quarter thus covers
the months of April, May and June.
Because of the unavailibility at present of detailed
data as to the Japanese techniques, forms and procedures
for over-all programming and allocating for the consumer
economy, it is suggested that M.G. in its planning utilize
the experience of the War Production Board and study its
techmiques, forms and procedures.
In order to supply the planning and control unit with
the data it requires to carry out its over-all planning and
control functions and in order to take supervisory responsi-
bility for the fulfillment of production programs M.G. will
probably need to establish functional units covering liquid
and solid fuels, mining, industry, public works and utilities,
transportation, and if and when foreign trade is resumed, a
foreign trade unit, etc. These units could advantageously
be broken dowm further into end-product, sub-units. The in-
dustry unit, for example, could have sub-units dealing with
textiles and clothing items in general, chemicals, building
materials, metal processing and metal goods, manufacture of
light and heavy electrical goods, consumer goods, etc.
These units and sub-units on the basis of their own
investigations and on reports submitted by the agency's
branches in the occupied regions could make reports as to
requirements and as to the availability of facilities, mate-
rials and power to meet these requirements. Operationally
they could determine in accordance with policy directives,
whioh facilities should be operated to produce the materials
and goods required and what proportion of one total each ter-
ritorial unit should produce. They could determine the dis-
tribution flow of end-products to meet M.G. requirements
first; minimum consumer economy needs secondly, and into
16 041 p44 bu

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.99)
-41-
foreign trade channels in the third place in accordance with
policy determinations as to priorities. In all these opera-
tions they should conform to the allocation and priority
decisions of the central planning and control unit.
B. Regional and prefectural organization.
At the outset of the occupation the central produe-
tion control agency could exercise direct control in the
initial prefectures or region occupied (for a description
of the region into which Japan has been divided see Part II, Sec-
tion III and Appendix I). As the occupation progresses the central
agency might continue directly to control production in the
metropolitan area or prefecture where its headquarters may
be located and supervise the sub-branches in the other pre-
fectures belonging to the region where it is located. In
all other partially or wholly occupied regions it could
establish regional branches modelled structurally after the
central agency subject to the peculiar productive capabilities
of the region. It might be the responsibility of the region-
al branches, on the basis of their own direct investigations
in the prefecture in which they are located and on the basis
of reports and recommendations submitted by the sub-branches
in the other prefectures within their respective regions, to
draw up requirements for the region as a whole, submit to the
central agency inventories of supplies of raw material, con-
dition and nature of processing facilities and what equipment
and repairs would be needed to put them into operation or to
convert them from production of munitions to production of
items required to meet M.G. production programs. In accord-
ance with allocations of materials and production quotas
worked out by the central agency on the basis of the reports
thus submitted, the regional branch could reallocate its over-
all regional quotas among the prefectures within its region,
In the case of large manufacturing units it might be more fea-
sible for the regional branch to allocate materials directly
to such plants and to exercise a more direct supervision over
such plants wherever situated in its region.
16 041 p45 bu

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.97)
10 041 p46
Appendix I
Administrative Regions of Japan - 1945
bu
Regional Administrative
Location of
Districts and Regional
Prefectures
Officee of Regional
Army Districts
Munitions Superintendencies
Included in Region
Superintendents-General
Northern
Hokkai
Hokkaido (including
Sapporo
Karafuto)
Tohoku
Tohoku
Aomori, Iwate, Miyagi,
Sendai
Akita, Yamagata,
Eastern
Kanto-Shinetsu
Fukushima. Ibaragi,
Tokyo
Tochigi, Gumma, Saitama,
Chiba, Tokyo, Kanagawa,
Yamanashi, Niigata, Nagano.
Tokai
Tokai-Hokuriku
Gifu, Shisuoka, Aichi, Mie,
Nagoya
Ishikawa, Toyama
5
Kinki
Kinki
Shiga, Kyoto, Osaka, Hyogo
Osaka
8
Nara, Wakayama, Fukui
Chugokm
Chugoku
Tottori, Shimane, Okayama,
Hiroshima
Hiroshima, Yamaguchi
Shikokm
Shikoku
Tokushima, Kagawa, Ehime,
Takamatsu
Kochi
Western
Kyushu
Fukuoka, Saga, Nagasaki,
Fukuoka
Kumamoto, Oita, Miyazaki,
Kagoshima, Okinawa
(As of June 1945)

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.99)
-43-
APPENDIX II
National Mobilisation Law of Japan
Law No. 19 of 1941
Promilgated March 1, 1941
Article 1. The term national general mobilisation as
used in this law denotes the control and operation of human
and material resources in order that the nation may be enabled
to display its total power most effectively for the realisa-
tion of national defense purpose in time of war (including an
incident corresponding with a war, the same applying correspond-
ingly to the following parts).
Article 2. The term general mobilization goods in
this law denotes things listed below:
1. Armaments, war vessels, ammunitions and other mili-
tary goods.
2. Garments, foodstuffs, beverages and fodders which
are necessary for national general mobilization.
3. Medicines, medical instruments, other sanitary
materials which are necessary for national gen-
eral mobilisation.
4.
Ships, airplanes, rolling stock and vehicles,
horses, and other materials for transportation
which are necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
5。
Goods for communications which are necessary for
national general mobilization.
6.
Engineering and building materials and goods for
lighting system which are necessary for national
general mobilization.
7. Fuels and electric power which are necessary for
national general mobilisation.
8. Raw and other materials, machines and tools,
equipment and other goods which are necessary
for the production, repair distribution and
conservation of each of the foregoing stipula-
tions and
16 041 p47 bu

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
-44-
9. Goods besides each of the foregoing which may be
designated by Imperial Ordinances as necessary
for national general mobilisation.
Article 3. General mobilisation businesses under this
law denote those which are listed below:
1. Businesses relating to the production, repair,
distribution, exportation, importation and stor-
ing of general mobilisation goods.
2. Businesses relating to transportation and communica-
tions which are necessary for national general
mobilization.
3. Businesses relating to money and banking which
are necessary for national general mobilization.
4. Businesses relating to sanitation, veterinary
sanitation and relief.
5. Businesses relating to education and training
which are necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
6. Business relating to experiments and researches
which are necessary for national general mobili-
zation.
7. Businesses relating to information and campaign
of education which are necessary for national
general mobilization.
8. Businesses concerning guarding which is necessary
for national general mobilization.
9. Businesses besides each of the forogoing which
may be désignated by Imperial Ordinances as nec-
essary for national general mobilisation.
Article 4. In time of war the Government if necessary
for national general mobilization may enlist subjects of the
Empire and place them in general mobilization businesses in ac-
cordance with provision of Imperial Ordinances. This provi-
sion does not prevent the application of the Conscription Law,
however.
10 041 p48 bu

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.99)
- 45 -
Article 5. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may cause subjects of the
Empire or juridical persons or other organisations of the Em-
pire to cooperate with the State or local public organisa-
tions or other persons designated by the Government.
Article 6. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may issue orders which
are necessary regarding the use, employment or discharge or
assumption of offices or assumption of service or retire-
ment of employees or wages, salaries and other working condi-
tions, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 7. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may issue necessary or-
ders regarding the prevention or settlement of labor disputes
or the closing of plants, suspension of operations, or re-
striction or prohibition of acts relating to labor disputes, in
accordance to provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 8. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may issue necessary orders regarding the
production, repair, distribution, transfer or other disposal,
uses, consumption, holding and movement of goods, in accord-
ance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 9. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may restrict or prohibit
exportation or importation, or may impose export duties or im-
port duties, or may increase or decrease export duties or im-
port duties, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordi-
nances.
Article 10. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilisation in time of war may use or expropriate or
cause a person who administers general mobilisation business
to use or expropriate general mobilisation goods, in accord-
ance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article ll. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may restrict or prohibit
the establishment or corporations, capital increases, consoli-
dations, changes in the purposes of businesses flotation of de-
bentures or the second subsequent calls for unpaid portions of
capital; and my issue orders regarding disposition of corpor-
ation profits, writing off of fixed assets or other matters
concerning accounting; and also may issue orders against banks,
trust companies, insurance companies and others designated by
16 041 p49 bu

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
- 46 -
Imperial Ordinances regarding the operation of their funds, or
undertaking or guaranteeing monetary obligations.
Article 12. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may make special arrange-
ments in accordance with Imperial Ordinances, and irrespective
of the provisions of Article 200 or 210 of the Commercial Code,
with respect to flotation of debentures or capital increase of
a corporation engaged in a general mobilisation business to
meet expenses for equipment belonging to said corporation.
Article 13. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may manage or use or ex-
propriate the whole or part of factories or workshops or ves-
sels and other facilities belonging to a general mobilization
business or other facilities which are convertible into it, in
accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
In case of use or expropriation of things listed in the
foregoing clause the Government may cause the owner of them to
offer the operatives, or may operate patent inventions or re-
gistered utility models which are actually operated in the
said facilities, in accordance with provision of Imperial
Ordinances.
The Government if necessary for national general mo-
bilization in time of war may manage, use or expropriate
land, houses or other establishments which are necessary for
general mobilization businesses, or may cause a person who
administers a general mobilization business to use or expro-
priate them, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances.
Article 14. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may use or expropriate
the mining rights or rights relating to the use of water, and
may cause a person who administers a general mobilization
business to operate patent inventions or registered new utility
models or to use the mining rights or rights relating to the
use of water.
Article 15. When things expropriated by the Government
under the provisions of the preceding two Articles have become
out of use, and in case they are to be sold within a period
of 10 years following their expropriation, or when things ex-
propriated by a person who conducts a general mobilisation
business under the provisions of Article 13, Paragraph 3, have
become out of use within a period of 10 years following their
expropriation, the former owmers or former holders of the rights
16 041 p50 bu

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
- 47 -
or legitimate successore to them may buy them back on a pre-
ferential basis, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances.
Article l6. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may restrict or prohibit
establishment or extension or improvement of equipment be-
longing to a general mobilization business, or may order the
establishment or extension or improvenent of equipment be-
longing to a general mobilization business, in accordance
with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
(2) The Government if necessary for national general
mobilization in time of war may issue necessary orders con-
cerning transfer or other disposal of, investments in, use
and removal of, equipment belonging to a general mobilisa-
tion business, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances.
(3) The Government if necessary for national general
mobilization in time of war may issue necessary orders re-
lating to the assumption, entrusting, joint management,
transfer, abolition or suspension of business, or changes
in business objectives or consolidation or dissolution of
corporations, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances.
Article 17. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization in time of war may cause the proprietors
of the same or different kinds of enterprises to obtain ap-
proval of the Government regarding the conclusion or change
or abolition of an agreement or agreements on control of the
respective enterprises, or may order then to conclude or
change or cancel control agreement or agreements among them-
selves, or may order the participants to act in accordance
with the said control agreement or agreements, in conformity
with provision of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 18. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war the Government, in accordance with pro-
visions of Imperial Ordinances, may cause the proprietors
of the same or different kinds of enterprises or their organi-
zations to control the said enterprises or order them to
establish an organization or corporation with the object of
oparating for the control.
16 041 p51 bu

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.99)
- 48 -
An organisation which is to be established under the
foregoing provisions shall be a juridical person.
When persons who have been ordered to establish an or-
ganisation in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1
have failed to establish it, the Government may take necessary
measures regarding the preparation of articles or association
or other matters relative to its establishment.
When an organization has been established in accord-
ance with the provisions of Paragraph 1, the Government may
cause persons who have qualifications as the constituent mem-
bers of the said organization to become the constituent mem-
bers of the said organization.
The Government may cause an organization which has
been established in accordance with the provisions of Para-
graph 1 to obtain approval of the Government regarding the
adoption or change or abolition of its control regulations
pertaining to enterprises of its constituent members (includ-
ing the constituent members of the latter, this applying
correspondingly to the following parts), or order it to
adopt or change the control regulations, or may order its
constituent members or persons who are qualified to be its
constituent members to act in conformity with the control
regulations.
Matters pertaining to an organization or  corpora-
tion under the provisions of Paragraph 1 shall be prescribed
by Imperial Ordinances.
(2) In case the Government has ordered the transfer of
facilities or rights, or investments under the provisions
of Article 16, Paragraph 2, or has ordered the transfer of
an enterprise under the provisions of Article 16, Para-
graph 3, necessary matters relating to the succession to
obligations of the transfer or investor or disposition of
their security shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinances.
(3) Regarding the transfer of facilities or rights, or
investment under the provisions of Article 16, Paragraph
2; or transfer of an enterprise or consolidation of cor-
porations under the terms of Article 16, Paragraph 3; or
an organization of a corporation established in accordance
with the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1 or 3; the
government, in accordance with provisions of Imperial Or-
dinances, may set up exceptions pertaining to calculations
of the standard of tax levy, or may make arrangements for
reduction or exemption of taxes.
16 041 p52 bu

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
- 45 -
Article 19. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation in time of war the Government, in accordance with pro-
visions of Imperial Ordinances, may issue necessary orders,
regarding price, transportation charge, storage, insurance
premium, rentals, processing charge, repairing charge or
rates of other payments on property.
Lrticls 20. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation L: time of war the Government may restrict or prohibit
the irsertion of articles in newspapers or other publications,
in accordance with prohibition of Imperial Ordinances.
The Goverument may prohibit sales and distribution of
newspapers or other publications containing items which hin-
der the national general mobilisation in violation of restric-
tion or prohibition under the foregoing provisions, and may
attach them. In this case the Government also may attach
their original plates.
Articls 2l. The Government, whenever it deems it nec-
essary for natioral general mobilization, may cause subjects
of the Empi or the employers of Japanese subjects to re-
port regarding the occupational ability of the Japanese subjects,
or may corduct examination concerning the occupational ability
of the Jarsnsee subjects.
Article 22. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may issue necessary orders against the
administrators or managers of schools, training institutes,
factories, workshops and other institutions suitable for
training technicians or the employers of persons who are to
be trainec, regarding training of technicians necessary for
national genoral mobilization.
Article 23. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation the Government, in accordance with provisions of Im-
perial Ordinences, may cause a person who is engaged in the
production, sales or importation of general mobilization
goods to hold e certain fixed quality of the said goods or
raw or other meterials thereof.
Article 24. If necessary for general mobilisation
the Government, in accordance with provisions of Imperial
Ordinances, may cause the proprietor of a general mobiliza-
tion enterprise or a person who shall have to operate a
general mobilization enterprise in time of war to formu-
late & plan regarding general mobilization business which is
to be operated in time of war or may cause him to conduct
exercises and training on the basis of the said plan.
10 041 p53 bu

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.99)
-50 -
Article 25. The Government if necessary for national
general mobilization may order a person who is engaged in the
production or repair of general mobilisation goods or the ad-
ministrator of an experimental and research institute to con-
duot experimants and researches.
Article 26. If necessary for national general mobili-
zation the Government, in accordance with provisions of Im-
perial Crdinances, may guarantee a certain fixed amount of
profit or grant subsidy within the limit of its budget for a
person who is engaged in the production or repair of general
mobilization goods. In this case, the Government may cause
the said person to produce or repair general mobilization
goods or to install equipment necessary for general mobilisa-
tion.
Article 27. The Government in accordance with provi-
sions of Imperial Ordinance, shall compensate losses that may
arise from measures taken under the stipulations of Articles
8, 10, 13, 14 or Article 16, Paragraph 2; orders of exporta-
tion and importation issued according to the provisions of
Article 9, orders regarding capital accommodation, subscrip-
tion to securities, underwriting or purchase of securities,
acceptance of obligations or guarantee of obligations under
the provisions of Article ll; orders regarding the establish-
ment or extension or improvement of equipment under the pro-
visions of Article l6; or orders regarding commission, trans-
fer, abolition or suspension of an enterprise or orders re-
quiring changes in the business purposes or dissolution of a
corporation under the provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 3,
except the cases under Paragraph 2 of this Article.
A person who administers general mobilisation business
shall compensate losses that may arise in case of this use,
expropriation or operation under the provisions of Article 10,
Article 13, Paragraph 3 or Article 14, in accordance with
provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 28. In case the Government issues orders un-
der the provisions of Articles 22, 23, or 25, it shall con-
pensate losses arising therefrom or grant monetary subsidy,
in accordance with provisions of Imperial Ordinances.
Article 29. The amount of compensation as under the
provisions of the preceding two articles and purchase value
as under the provisions of Article 15 shall be determined by
16 041 p54 bu

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.98)
- 51 -
the Government affer consultation with the General Mobilisa-
tion Compensation Commission.
Rules governing the General Nobilization Compensation
Commission shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinanoe.
Article 30. The Govermment shall supervise all enter-
prise that receives the guarantee of profit or subsidy money
under the provisions of Articles 26 or 28, and may issue or-
ders or take measures which are necessary in this connection.
Article 3l. If necessary for national general mobili-
sation the Government by order may demand reports or may have
the competent officials inspect necessary places and examine
business conditions or books or documents or other things.
(2) A person falling under either of the following
shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding 10 years
or a fine not exceeding 1 50,000:
1. A person who has violated an order or orders
issued under the provisions of Article 8.
2. A person who has violated an order or orders
issued under the provisions of Article 19.
Article 32. & person who, in violation of an order
issued under the provisions of Article 9, has exported or
imported goods or has attempted to do so, shall be subject
to penal servitude not exceeding three years or a fine not
exceeding110,000.
In the case of the foregoing paragraph, the goods
which the offender has exported or imported or attempted to
export or import, if in possession of the offender, be con-
fiscated. If it has been impossible to confiscate the
whole or a part of the said goods, their value may be added
to the fine.
Article 33. A person falling under either of the
following shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding
three years or a fine not exceeding 1 5,000:
1. A person who has violated order or restriction
or prohibition under the provisions of Article 7.
2. A person who, in violation of the order under
the provisions of Article 9, fails to export
or import.
10 041 p05 bu

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
- 52 -
3. A person who has refused or hindered or evaded
the use or expropriation of general mobiliza-
tion goods as under the provision of Article 10.
4. A person who has refused or hindered or evaded
the management or use or expropriation of faci-
lities, land or constructions, or offering of
the operatives as under the provisions of
Articlo 13.
Article 34. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding two
years or a fine not exceeding ¥ 3,000:
1. A person who has violated restriction or prohibi-
tion as under the provisions of Article 1l.
2. A person who has violated restriction or prohibi-
tion or order as under the provisions of Arti-
cle 16.
3. A person who has violated orders and under the
provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 2.
4. A person who has violated orders as under the
provisions of Article 16, Paragraph 3.
5. A person who in violation of the provisions
of Article 17 or Article 18, Paragraph 5, has
set up or changed or abolished a control agreement
without approval of the Government, or has
violated an order issued under the provisions
of Article 17 or Article 18, Paragraph 5.
6. A person who, in violation of the provisions of
Article 23, does not hold goods.
7. A person who, in violation of the provision of
Article 26 does not produce or repair or in-
stall equipment.
Article 35. A person who has committed a criminal
act under the preceding four Articles may be subjected to
concurrent imposition of penal servitude and fine.
Article 36. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding one
year or a fine not exceeding & 1,000:
1d 041 p56 bu

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
- 53 -
1. A person who does not acced to expropriation
or does not execute the business as under the
provisions of Article 4.
2. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 6.
Article 37. A person falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to a fine not exceeding  3,000:
1. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 22.
2. A person who does not formulate a plen or does
not execute trainings, in violation of an order
issued under the provisions of Article 24.
3. A person who does not conduct experiments and
researches, in violation of orders issued under
the provisions of Article 25.
Article 38. A pereon falling under either of the fol-
lowing shall be subject to a fine not exceeding  1,000:
1. ▲ person who, in violation of orders issued un-
der the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1,
fails to organise an organisation or corpor-
ation.
2. A person who has violated an order issued under
the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 6.
3. A person who has violated an order disposi-
tion as under the provisions of Article 30.
4. A person who has neglected reporting or made
false report in violation or in order issued
under the provisions of Article 31.
Article 39. In case of a newspaper having violated re-
striction or prohibition as under the provisions of Article
20, Paragraph 1, its publisher and editor, and in case of
other publications their publishers or authors, shall be sub-
ject to penal servitude or imprisonment not exceeding two
years or a fine not exceeding  2,000:
In case of a newspaper, a person who actually was in
charge of editing one and who signed the article or arti-
cles involved, besides the editor, shall be subject to the
16 041 p57 bu

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
-54 -
foregoing provisions.
Article 40. A person who hindered the execution of
attachment asunder the provisions of Article 20, Paragraph
2, shall be subject to penal servitude or imprisonment not
exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding ¥ 500.
Article 41. The stipulations of the Criminal Code re-
garding concurrent crimes shall not be applicable to a crime
under the foregoing two articles.
Article 42. A person who has refused or hindered or
evaded the inspection by the competent officials as under
the provisions of Article 3l shall be subject to penal ser-
vitude not exceeding six montha or a fine not exceeding  500.
Article 43. A person who, in violation of the provi-
sions of Article 21 has neglected reporting or refused or
hindered or evaded the inspection by the competent officials
shall be subject to a fine not exceeding & 50 or detention or
a minor fine.
Article 44. When a person, who is or has been en-
gaged in a general mobilisation business, has disclosed or
secretly used official secrets regarding general mobilization
business designated by the competent Government offices
which he had come to knowledge of in relation with the exe-
cution of his business, he shall be subject to penal servi-
tude not exceeding two years or a fine not exceeding  2,000.
Article 45. When an official or a person who has been
engaged in official service has disclosed or secretly used
business secrets of a juridical or natural person which he
had come to knowledge of in relation to the execution of
his duties under the provisions of this law, he shall be
subject to penal servitude not exceeding two years or fine
not exceeding  2,000.
The provisions of the preceding clause shall apply
in case an officer or employee, or a person who has been an
officer or employee, of an organization or corporation es-
tablished for the purpose of controlling enterprises under
the provisions of Article 18, Paragraphs 1 or 3 or other
juridical person or other organization which administers
control by order on the basis of this law, has disclosed or
secretly used business secrets of a juridical or natural
person which he had come to knowledge of in relation to the
execution of his duties.
16 041 p58 bu

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.99)
- 55 -
Article 46. When an officer or employee of an organiza-
tion or corporation 3stablished for the purpose of controlling
enterprises under the provisions of Article 18, Paragraph 1
or 3, or other juridical person or other organization which ad-
ministers control by order on the basis of this law, has re-
ceived or demanded or promised acceptance of, a bribe in con-
junction with his duties, he shall be subject to penal servi-
tude not exceeding two years. When the said person according-
ly has committed an impropar act or has not committed a proper
act, he shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding
five years.
The bribe received in the case of the foregoing clause
shall be confiscated. If the whole or a part of it could not
be confiscated, its value shall be levied on the said person.
Article 47. A person who has given or offered or pro-
mised a bribe to the person mentioned in the preceding clause,
shall be subject to penal servitude not exceeding two years
or a fine not exceeding ¥500.
When a person who has committed a crime under the pre-
ceding clause, has surrendered himself to justice, the penalty
may be mitigated or he may be remitted.
Article 48. When a representative of a juridical per-
son or proxy of a juridical or natural person or other employee
or other operative thereof has committed an offense under the
provisions of Article 31, Paragraph 2 to Article 34, Article
36, Paragraph 2, Articles 37, 38 or the fore part of Article
43, the said juridiçal or natural person shall be subject to
a fine or minor fine provided in each of the above Articles,
in addition to the punishment of the said offense.
Article 49. The provisions of the preceding Article
shall be applied to an act committed in land outside the ter-
ritories where this law is in force by a representative or
proxy or employee or other operative of a juridical person,
who has his headquarters or main business office within the
territories where this law is in force. The same shall also
apply to an act committed in land outside the territories
where this law is in force by a representative or employee or
other operative of a natural person, who has his domicile
within the territories where this law is in force.
The penalty provision of this law shall be applied to
a subject of the Empire who has committed a crime in land
outside the territories where this law is in force.
16 041 p59..bu

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.98)
- 56 -
Artiole 50. The National General Mobilisation Commis-
sion shall be established to respond to inquires from the
Government regarding important matters relative to the en-
forosnent of this law (exclusive of those pertaining to the
military rules).
Rules governing the National General Mobilisation Com-
mission shall be prescribed by Imperial Ordinance.
Source:- Domei Tsushin Sha (The Overseas Department),
Wartime Legislation in Japan, Nippon Shogyo
Taushin Sha, Tokyo, 1941, p. 30-62
16 041 p80 bu

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
-57-
APPENDIX III
Major Provision of the Munitions Company Act of October 28. 1943.
1. Under this law, munitions companies shall be those companies
that engages in enterprises nocessary (to supply) arms, air-
craft, warships, and other war materials, and shall mean those
designated by the Government, and the scope of the enterprises
in the preceding clause will be prescribed by order.
2. Munitions companies, heeding the demands of the State for in-
creased fighting strength, shall conform to the plans of the
Government and shall assume responaibility in the operation of
enterprises pertaining to sufficiency in mmitions.
With regard to munitions companies, as fixed by the orders (of
the Government), bans and restrictions imposed by laws shall
be cancelled, obligations shall be removed, and also special
regulations may be enacted in connection with procedures for
permits, and so forth.
4.
The Government, under the stipulations of these main points,
in cases when it is deemed necessary to issue orders or to take
measures, may, under the provisions of the orders, guarantee
assistance as well as profits to munitions companies.
5.
Munitions companies must select a person responsible for pro-
duction from among the officials of the company. When
selection of a responsible person for production cannot be
made, the Government may appoint a person, in which case
the person appointed shall become an official of the com-
pany. The person responsible for production will represent
the munitions company, and is appointed to the office for
the fulfillment of the obligations of increasing fighting
power.
6. The munitions company, without the approval of the Govern-
ment, may not dismiss the person responsible for production
who was selected by the Government. The Government will
designate to the munitions companies time, plans, quantities,
and other necessary matters, and may issue orders ombracing
the manufacture and repair of goode necessary for sufficient
war materials.
7. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue orders to munitions companies or take measures
for the establishment of new precautionary installations,
the acquisition, storage, and movement of basio materials,
10 041 p61 bu

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.99)
- 58 -
the improvement of technique, the supervision of (trade) and
labor, and other matters necessary to carry on the enterprise.
8. The Government may issue orders necessary for cooperation
between the munitions company and those (persons) connected
with carrying on the operation of cooperating factories,
and subsldiary factories, and other enterprises which the
munitions company conducts.
9. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may issue to munitions companies orders necessary in con-
nection with the taking over or taking custody of enter-
prises, the clarification (of articles of trust), or changes
in the articles of incorporation, the delegation, transfer,
or discontinuing or suspension of operations, (and) the trana-
fer of equipment or (patent rights) belonging to an enter-
prise.
10. The Government may restrict or ban the munitions company
from engaging in operations other than those designated by
the Government.
1l. The Government, according to the provisions of the orders,
may iesue orders necessary in connection with the amalgama-
tion or dissolution of munitions companies.
12. The Government, in accordance with the stipulations of the
orders, may issue orders to munitiona companies necessary
to effect the adjustment and management of funds.
13. Persons res.onsible for production, or persons in charge
of production, in accordance with the provisions of the
orders, have the right to recruit workers as provided by
the National Mobilization Law.
14. The staff and employees of munitions companies will be under
the crders of the person responsible for production, or the
person in charge of production.
15. The Government may issue orders to munitions companies, or
take necessary measures regarding supervision.
16. With regard to the business mattere of munitions companies,
the Government may gather reports, as well as inspect or
examine them.
16.041 p62 bu

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.97)
- 59-
17. When the person responsible for production, or the person
in charge of production, does not fulfill his responsibility,
or when the staff sund other employees of the munitions com-
pany do not obey the orders of the persons responsible for
production, or the persons in charge of production, the
Government, in accordance with the provision of the order,
will find the means of imposing the nocessary punishment.
18. Necessary penal regulations shall be enacted.
19.
These main points may be applied to companies other than
those engaged in the enterprises set forth in the first
clau8e.
16 041 p63 bu

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
- 60 -
APPENDIX IV
ACTIVITIES OF THE MUNITIONS SUPERINTENDENCE BUREAUS OF
THE MINISTRY OF MUNITIONS (ABSTRACT)
1. The vigorous activities of the Munitions Superintendence
Bureans.
The Munitions Superintendence Bureaus were formed with
the establishment of the Munitions Ministry to undertake
the responsibility of increasing production. The law
provides that the Minister of Munitions shall establish
local or branch offices or the Ministry, whenever necessary
to divide the affairs of supervisions, control and manage-
ment of munitions factories and enterprises. And the muni-
tions officials or munitions superintendence officials shall
become the chiefs of local and branch offices of the Min-
istry. The primary purpose of establishing such local
offices is to control the munitions industry without a
single gap throughout the country and to push forward the
industry with an over-all efficiency.
Under the above provision of law, local offices are located
in Sapporo, Sendai, Tokyo, Nagoya, Niigata, Osaka, Hiroshima,
Matsuyama, and Fukuoka to divide the affairs of munitions
production in nine, (later eight areas) through the coun-
try. The Munitions Superintendence officials in these
nine areas consist of former industrial staff members of
Commerce and Industry Ministry, Mining Superintendent Bureau
Officials, Labor Buriau Officials of Public Welfare Ministry
and Army and Navy Officials. The Munitions Superintendence
Chief shall direct all the officials in their supervision
of munitions production by distributing them to essential
factories and plants.
II. Special characteristics of the administration.
The special characteristics of Munitions Superintendence
Bureaus administration are as follows:
1) The unification of administration. The Munitions
Superintendence Bureaus and its officials are in charge
of the unified administration of production thrcughout the
country. They control capital, management, labor, price,
raw material distribution and motive power. Formerly
these were divided into ministries and departments.
2) The principle of production-firat. Previously, the
industrial administration was divided according to the
legal rights of control and the actual work of production.
18 041 p64 bu

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.99)
-61-
But the activities of the officials are not bound to such
divisions but the actual control and direction of produc-
tion. All activities are centered in the principle of
production-first.
3) The motivating characteristic. Compared with the
previous administration, the Munitions Superintendence
Bureaus has a more unified and wider scope of administra-
tion and management of munitions production which is typical
in wartime. It is richer in motivating power and creative
leadership.
III. The structure of the Munition Superintendence Bureaus.
1) The General Affairs Section plans a unified arrange-
ment and control of labor and defense affairs.
2) The Firat Superintendent Section controls airoraft
production and its related weapons and machines.
3) The Second Superintendent Section undertakes the affairs
of machines, steel, light metals, chemicals and fuel that
were handled formerly by the old Commerce and Industry Min-
istry.
4) The Finance Section controls capital arrangement,
management, prices and price accounting.
5) The Electric Power Section undertakes the affairs of
electric power and hydro-electric power.
The scope of each of these sections is wider. For inst-
ance, the Electric Power Section controls not only the
electric utilities of munitions factories and plants but
it controls the use of electricity in all places including
the use of electricity in therares. The First and Second
Superintendent Sections control a narrower scope than that
of the Electric Power Section but in essence they control
the most significant domains of aircraft and raw material.
IV. Problems that need to be adjusted.
The problems that confront the administration of the de-
partment are as follows:
1) Those that confront the munitions companies with their
responsibilities for production and the Munitions Superin-
tendence Bureaus.
16 041 p65 bu

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.98)
- 62 -
2) Those relative to general local administration.
3) Those relative to controlled factories under the
Army and Navy Ministries.
First, the munitions companies are responsible for pro-
duction and the Superintendence Bureau officials are respon-
sible for the arrangement of production. It is natural
that some problems result from this relationship of pro-
duction and arrangement by the different bodies. But the
munitions companies must understand that they are designated
and assigned by the Government for production responsibility
while the Munitions Superintendence Bureaus officials are
appointed to give a hand in directing and guiding and to
oncourage work in the plants. However, the orders of the
Munitions Ministry create a double responsibility. Thus,
for the second time, the 424 companies that have been under
the control of Ministries of Munitions, Army, Navy and
Transportation have been brought under the direct control
of Munitions Superintendence Bureaus to avoid a double re-
sponsibility and to make a complete unification. All of
the 424 munitions companies which were designated by the
law of munitions companies are to be supervised by the
Superintendence Bureaus under the direction of the Govern-
mont.
16.041.p60 bu

=== Page 493 === (confidence 0.99)
- 63 -
V. Characteristic differences.
Under the law of munitions companies, the designated companies
became munitions companies that must be operated under the orders of
the Government and the production responsibility is assigned to the
presidents of the different companies. Superintendent officials are
sent to the actual places of operation, factories and plants, to give
all possible means of encouragement, direction and guidance in
production. Naturally the factory or plant owners have their own
production responsibilities but when the superintendent officials
express strong opiniona as to how production should be or what manage-
ment should be, dissentions may occur. However, it is fortunate that
dissentions do not exist at all in the factories and plants because
the fundamental principle of production-first lies deeper in the
minds of producers and superintendent officials. The one goal is
the same because the supreme order comes from the Ministry of Munitions.
Second, problems relative to the Superintendence Bureaus and
local administrations cannot be denied. A local factory that belongs
to a local administration must also belong to the administration of
Superintendence Bureaus which would create a double responsibility
for a local factory. But the presence of Superintendence officials
is in the local factories, cements the relationship and results in
inseparable connections between local and central administration.
The Superintendence Bureaus Chief represents all local administra-
tions at conferences so that the direction and supervision of super-
intendent officials in localities will bring a closer connection
between the central and local administrations. Here again, the most
significant point of munitions production comes under the principle
of "The nation itself is the munitions production." The logical
differences are not the real problems.
Third, the problems relative to the Army and Navy controlled
factories and the supervision of the superintendent officials are
brought up. Logically there will be difficulty in the double super-
vision by both over the one aim of production. But in reality, the
arrangement of Superintendence Bureaus for production is done by the
same officials of the Army and Navy Ministries. These officials are
the same officials of both the Superintendence Bureau and of the
Army and Navy.
SOURCE: - Diamond June 11, 1944.
18 04t p67 bu

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.99)
-64-
APPENDIX V
MAJOR INDUSTRIES ORGANIZATION ORDINANCE 1/
Juyo Sangyo Dentai Rei)
(August 29, 1941)
CHAPTER I: General Rules
Article 1 --
This ordinance provides for the control of organizations
established for the purpose of controlling major industries. The
kinds of major industries (subject to this ordinance) are cited
in Article 18 of the National General Mobilisation Law, (including
those industries referred to in Imperial Ordinance No. 317 of 1938).
Exceptions will be made for the enterprises for which separate
provisions are to be established.
Article 2 --
A Cabinet decree shall determine which major industries
are subject to this ordinance.
Article 3 --
The organizations established under the provisions of this
ordinance are called Control Societies (Tosei-Kai) and Control
Associations (Tosei-Kumiai).
Any Control Society or Control Association, in designating
its title, shall use the characters for Control Sooiety (
or Control Association (
). An exception (as to the use of
the character) may be made when the permission of the competent
Minister is obtained.
CHAPTER II: Control Society (Tosei-Kai)
Article 4 --
For the purpose of developing the national oconomic power to
the highest point the Control Society shall aim at promoting the
control and management of industry concerned; and the society shall
cooperate in carrying out national policy and the operation of the
industry concerned on national lines, according to the national policy.
The name of this Ordinance is alternatively translated as Key
Industries Organisation Control Ordinance.
18 041 p88 bu

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.99)
-65-
Article 5--
The control societies are to be established by kind of industry.
Article 6 --
In order to accomplish the purpose (for which they are
established) the control societies shall perform the following
functions:
(a) Plan with the government the national program for
production and distribution in the industry concerned;
the means of supplying the labor, raw materials, capital
and any other demands of the industry concerned.
industry concerned. Do the same for any enterprises
belonging to the industry concerned, which are under-
taken by the members and organizers of member organiza-
tions of the society.
(c) Provide for the complete equipping of the industry
concerned.
(d) Develop techniques, increase the efficiency, unify
the techniques of production, reform the management of
the industry concerned and of the institutions undertaken
by the members and the organizers of the member organiza-
tions for the development of the enterprises belonging
to the industry concerned.
(e) Make investigation of and do research work for the
industry concerned.
(f)
Lake investigations of the enterprises undertaken by
the members and organizers of the member organizations
of the industry concerned.
ment of the purpose of the Control Society besides
those mentioned above.
Article 7--
Those who are qualified to be members of a Control Society
and are subject to appointment by the competent Minister are as
follows:
(a) Those who are engaged in the industry concerned.
(b) Organisations established by those who are engaged in
the industry concerned.
16 041 p69 bu

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.99)
-66-
(c) Organizations composed of those members mentioned in
Section (a), and organizations composed of the organisa-
tions mentioned in Section (b).
Article 8 -
When the competent Minister intends to establish a control
society he shall order those who heve the qualifications for member-
ship, as provided in the preceding article, to organise a control
society in accordance with the provisions of a Cabinet decree.
When there is the order from the competent Minister to establish
a control society in accordance with the provisione of the preceding
paragraph, a general organizational meeting shall be called in
accordance with the provisione of the Cabinet decree. After considera-
tion of the Cabinet decree the meeting shall decide the articles of
the society and the necessary matters to establish the control
society. Approval of the socisty must then be obtained from the
competent Minister.
Article 9 --
The following matters shall be written in the Articles of the
control society.
(a) Purpose.
(b) Title.
(c) Location of the office.
(d) Regulations concerning members.
(@) Regulations concerning officials.
(f) Regulations concerning meetings.
(g) Regulations concerning accounts.
Article 10--
The existence of a control society becomes effective when the
approval mentioned in Paragraph 2, Article 8 is obtained, or when
the Articles of the Society are drawn up in accordance with the provisions
of Paragraph 3, Article 18 of the National General Mobilization Law.
The competent Minister shall announce the purpose of establishing
the control society and its articles when the approval mentioned
in the preceding paragraph is obtained.
18 041 p70 bu

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.99)
-67-
▲rticle 11--
When a control society is established all those who have the
qualifications for membership are made members of the control society.
Article 12 --
The following officials shall be appointed in a control
society.
(a) President - one
(b) Directors - geveral
(e) Inspectors - several
(d) Members of the board of trustees - several
Two vice-presidents or less in addition to the officials
mentioned in the preceding paragraph and one chief-director may be
appointed in a control society depending on the Articles of the society.
Article 13 --
The president represents the control society. He controls
and guides the industry concerned and manages all the affairs of the
society.
The vice-presidents asaist the president. The (first) vice-
president, according to the sequence of the vice-presidents previously
decided by the president, substitutes for the president when he cannot
fulfill his duties. When the president's seat is vacant, the (first)
vice-president performs the official duties of the president.
The Chief Director assists the president and the vioe-presidents
in managing the affairs of the society. The chief director substitutes
for the president and the vice-presidents if they are not able to
fulfill their duties. He performs the official duties of the president
if the seats of the president and the vice-presidents are vacant.
The directors assist the president, the vice-presidents and
the Chief Director, and they manage the affairs of the society accord-
ingly. The (first) director, in accordance with the sequence of the
directors previously arranged by the president, substitutes for the
president in case the president, the vice-presidents and the Chief
Director are not able to fulfili their duties. He performs the
official duties of the president if the seats of president, of the
vice-president and the Chief Director are vacant.
16 041 p71 bu

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.99)
-68-
The inspectors investigate the financial conditions of the
control society.
The members of the Board of Trustees give their opinions to
enquiries made by the president.
Article 14-
The competent minister appoints the president of a society
from among those suggested by the nominating committee.
The competent Minister appoints members of the nominating
committee from among those who have had experience with or have made
special studies on the industry concerned.
The president appoints the vice-presidents, the chief-director,
the directors and the members of the Board of Trustees from those
who have had experience with or have made special studies on the
industry concerned.
Members of the board of trustees elect the inspectors in
accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decree. The appoint-
ments of the vice-presidents, the chief-director and the directors
have no effects unless the approval of the competent Minister is
obtained. When the competent Minister has given the approval as
provided im the preceding paragraph and has made the appointments
as provided in Paragraph 1, he shall announce the facts.
Article 15 -
The terms of the officials of the control society are as
follows:
President
Three years
Vice-President
Chief-Director
Directors
Inspectors
Two years
Members of the Board
of Trustees
The president may discharge the vice-presidents, the chiefe
director and the directors, even during their terms of office if he
considers this act to be necessary.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister is obtained.
The competent Minister shall announce the fact when he has
given his approval.
16 041 p72 bu

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.99)
-69-
Article 16 --
The president, the vice-presidents, the chief-director and
the directors shall not be engaged in other official duties or in
commercial business. An exception may be made when the permiszion
of the competent Minister is obtained.
Article 17 -
The Control Society may give suggestions about matters related
to the industry to the ministers concerned with the industry.
The Control Society must give answers to the enquiries made
by the ministers ooncerned with the industry.
Article 18 --
The Control Society may request from the members and organisers
of the member organisations the submission of the necessary material
for the investigation of certain facts regarding the industry concerned.
Those who are requested to submit certain material, in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, mmst do
so immediately.
Article 19--
The Control Society may levy upon the members assessments
as provided in the Articles of the Society.
Article 20--
When any other assessment is necessary for the operation of
the enterprise, depending on the provisions of the Cabinet decree,
the Control Society may levy the assesament, other than those already
levied in accordance with the provisions of the preceding article.
The Control Society may levy the assessment upon the entire body or
a group of the members aftor the approval of the competent Minister
is obtained.
Article 21 --
The Control Society may levy fines, as .provided in the Articles
of the Society, upon those members who have violated the Articles or
the control regulations.
Article 22--
If there are people who fail to pay the assessments mentioned
in the articles 19 and 20, the Municipality (Shi), Town (Cho), and
Village (Son) may deal with the situation according to the regulations
16 041 p73 bu

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.99)
-70-
concerning the non-payment of tax in that locality, provided that the
Control Society has made a request to the authorities of the locality.
In such case the Control Society shall pay 4 per cent of the collected
amount to the city, town or village.
When there is no organized town or village, the corresponding
body in the locality shall take the place of the town and village
mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
The order of priority of claims for the assesaments mentioned
in the provision of paragraph 1 is next to that of the municipality,
town, or village tax or to the corresponding tax system. The time
limitation for payment of this levy depends on the tax regulations
goverming the municipality, town and city.
Article 23 --
The Control Society shall establish the control regulations
goveming members and organizers of organizations having relations
with enterprises belonging to the industry concerned.
Article 24 --
Revisions of the Articles and establishment and revisions
of the control regulations shall not take effect until approved by
the competent Minister.
The competent Minister must announce the fact that he has
given the approval mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Article 25--
The members and organizers of the member organizations of the
Control Society must act in accordance with the control regulations.
Article 26 --
The Control society may have the officials and other employees
of the Society investigate the business affairs, financial conditions,
account books, establishments, and other property of the members or
of the organizers of the member organizations of the society if the
society considers it necessary.
The members and organizers of the member organizations of the
Control Society cannot reject, interfere, or evade the investigations
mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
16 041 p74 bu

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.99)
-71-
When the Control Society has the officials and other employees
of the society make the investigation according to the ragulations
of Paragraph 1, the control society must provide the investigators
with identification cards which shall certify their official positions.
Article 27--
When the conduct of directors or managers and other officers
who are in position to operate the business of the member corporations
and of corporations which organize the member associations, comes
under one of the following sections, and when they are considered
to be interfering with the control and management of the industry
concerned, the president of the control society of the industry
concerned may, with the approval of the competent Winister, order
the corporation to discharge the officials. The chief director of
a control association, which is a member of a control society, is
not subject to this regulation:
a. Then the ordinance, or the decisions based on the
ordinance by an administrative government office, is violated.
b. When the public welfare is jeopardized.
c. When the control regulations are violated.
Article 28--
The president shall call the regular general meeting of a
Control Society once every year.
The president may call special general meetings at any time
if needed.
Article 29--
The president shall decide the following matters after con-
sultation at the general meeting:
a. Amendment of the articles of the society.
b. Budget
c. The method of levying the assessment provided in Articles 19
and 20.
Article 30-
The president shall prepare a business report and he shall
have the inspectors prepare a financial report of the control society.
Article 31--
The government's administrative office may summon the Control
Society, the members or the organizers of the member associations
16 041 p75 bu

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.99)
-72-
to make their business reports whenever the office considers necessary;
this office may have the officials of the government administrative
office inspect the factories and other property concerned. They may
have the officials investigate the business condition, accounting
books, documents and other items according to the regulations of
Articles 31 of the National General Mobilization Law.
When the officials concerned are asked to make investigations
and inspections, they must possess the indentification cards certifying
their official position.
Article 32 --
The Ministers connected with a Control Society may demand that
the society investigate the business affairs of the industry concerned.
Article 33 --
The competent Minister may require the Control Society to
operate a needed enterprise or to alter the articles of the society,
and perform other functions when he considers such acts necessary
to control the operation of the industry concerned.
Article 34 --
The competent Minister may issue necessary orders to a Control
Society concerning the business and accounts of the society, and in
case of necessity, he may take over the management thereof.
The competent Minister may have the inspectors make a report
on the results of their investigation.
Article 35 --
The competent Minister may discharge the president when the
conduct of the latter violates the ordinances and the decisions
based on the ordinances, or damages the public interest and when he
considers the president unfit to control the industry concerned.
The competent Minister may discharge the vice-presidents,
chief director, directors, inspectors and the members of the Board of
Trustees when the conduct of these men violates the ordinances or
the decisions based on the ordinances, or when they damage the public
interest.
The competent Minister shall announce the fact when he has
discharged the president, vice-president, chief-directors or directors
according to the regulations of the preceding paragraph.
16 04L p76 bu

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.99)
-73-
Article 36 --
The Control society may be dissolved by the orders of the
competent Minister.
The competent Minister must make the announcement of the fact
when he has given the order mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Chapter III
Control Association (Tosei - kumiai)
Article 37--
The Control Association strives to control the management
of the industry concerned so as to develop most effectively the entire
economic power of the nation and to cooperate in carrying out the
national plan for the industry concerned.
Article 38 --
The Control association shall be organized by the kind of
industry in a given district.
The district mentioned in the preceding paragraph, except
in special cases, shall be determined in accordance with the division
of local administration, do, fu, ken, or two or more divisions of the
same.
Article 39--
The control association shall undertake the following functions
in order to accomplish its aim:
a. Control and guide production and distribution of the
industry concerned in a given district; control and guide enterprises
undertaken by the members of the Association which belongs to the
industry concerned.
b. Provide for the equipping of the industry concerned in
a given district.
c. Develop techniques, increase efficiency, reform the
management and carry on other activities in the plants established
by the members for the development of the enterprises belonging to
the industry concerned.
d. Investigate and conduct research concerning the industry
in a district.
16 041 p77 bu

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.99)
-74-
e. Inspect the enterprises carried on by the members of
the Association.
f. Carry on the enterprises necessary to accomplish the
purpose of the Control Association in addition to the functions
mentioned in eech preceding section.
Article 40 --
Those who are qualified for membership in the Control Association
are as follons and may be appointed by the competent Minister:
a. Those who are engaged in the industry concerned in a given
district.
b. Those organizations composed of people who are engaged
in the industry concerned in a given district.
c. The organizations composed of the organizations mentioned
in the sections (a) and (b); the organizations composed of the
organizations mentioned in the preceding section.
Article 41 --
When the competent Minister intends to have a Control Association
established, he shall order people who are qualified for membership
in the Control Association in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding article, to establish the association in a given locality
in accordance with the provisions of the Cabinet decree.
Article 42 --
The following matters shall be stated in the Articles of
the Control Association:
a. Purpose.
b。
Title.
c.
District.
d.
Location of the office.
e.
Regulations concerning the members of the Associations.
f.
Regulations concerning the enterprise and its operation.
g.
Regulations concerning officials.
h.
Regulations concerning meetings.
1. Regulations concerning the treasury.
Article 43 --
The following officials shall be established in a Control
Association:
16 041 p78 bu

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.99)
-75-
Chief Director --
one
Directors --
several
Inspectors --
several
Members of the Board of
several
Trustees --
Not more than two vice-chief directors may be established
in a Control Association depending on the provisions of the
articles of the association, in addition to the officials mentioned
in the preceding paragraph.
Article 44 --
The chief-director represents the Control Associations. He
controls and guides the industry concerned and operates the business
of the Association.
The president of a Control Society appoints the chief-director
of a Control Association, which is under the jurisdiction of the
former, from among those who have experience in or knowledge of
the industry concerned. When there is no connected Control Society,
the competent Minister appoints the chief director of a Control
Association from those persons who have experience in or knowledge
of the industry concerned.
The chief-director chosen in accordance with the provisions
of the first part of the preceding paragraph shall not take office
until the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
Article 45 --
The provisions of Paragraphs 2, and 4 to 6, Article 13 and
from Paragraph 3 to 5 of Article 14 are to be applied to the
vice-chief directors, directors, inspectors and trustee members of
the Control Association.
Article 46 --
The terms of the officials of the Control Association are
as follows:
Chief director --
3 yeara
Vice chief-directors --
Directors --
Inspectors --
2 years
Trustee members
The chief-director may dismiss the vice-directors or directors
of the Association during their terms of office if he considers this
act necessary.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
16 041 p79 bu

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
-76-
Article 47 --
The president of a Control society may dismiss the chief director
of a Control Aseociation when the latter's conduct violates the
ordinance or the decisions made by the administrative government in
accordance with the ordinance, or when the chief-director is considered
unfit for the control and management of the industry concerned.
The dismissal mentioned in the preceding paragraph has no
effect unless the approval of the competent Minister has been obtained.
Article 48 --
The Control Association may convene a general meeting of
representatives in accordance with the Articles of the Association;
this meeting to take the place of the general meeting.
Articles 28 and 29 are to be applied to the general meeting
of the representatives mentioned in the preceding paragraph.
Article 49 --
The Control Association is required to register according
to the provisions of the Cabinet decree.
The items which should be registered according to the provisions
of the preceding paragraph, may not be applied to a third party unless
he has been registered.
Article 50--
The regulations of Paragraph 2 of Article 8, of Articles
10, 11, 17 to 26 and 28 to 34, of Paragraph 1 and 2 of Articles 35
and also Paragraph 1 of Article 36 are to be applied to the Control
Association. The government's administrative office shall take the
place of the competent Minister and the ministers connected with the
industry concerned. Exceptions are made in the provisions of
Paragraph 2 of Article 10 and Paragraph 1 of Article 36.
Chapter IV
Miscellaneous Regulations
Article 51 --
When the enquiries, reports, inspections, investigations and
orders concerned are of military importance, the Minister of Army
or Navy will take the place of the Ministers connected with the
industry concerned or the government's administrative office and the
competent Minister, mentioned in Paragraph 2 of Article 17,
10 041 p80 bu

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.99)
-77-
Paragraph 1 of article 31, Article 32 (including the preceding
articles to which the mentioned provisions are applied) and Article 33
(including the preceding articles to which Article 33 is applied,
the same applying correspondingly to this article and Article 52).
When the Minister of Army or Navy intends to give an order
according to the regulations of Article 33 he must discuss the
matter with the authorized Minister of the Control Society or of the
Control Association.
Article 52 --
If the authorized Minister of a Control Society or of a
Control association intends to give an order under the provisions
of Article 33 he shall confer with the Minister of Army or Navy
if the order concerned should affect military matters.
Article 53 --
In Chosen, Taiwan, Karafuto and in the South Sea Islands
(hereinafter referred to as the "Outer-Territories") the Chosen
governor-general, the Taiwan governor-general, the heads of the
Karafuto government office and of the South Sea Islands Government
office shall take the place of the competent Minister, the Ministers
directly connected with the business concerned and the authorized
Ministers of the Control Society or of the Control Associations
mentioned in this ordinance.
In the case of a Control society composed of members who fall
under one of the sections of Article 7 and who live in the Outer-
Territories and of persons who live in Japan proper, the Chosen
Governor-general, the Taiwan government, the Heads of the Karafuto
government office and of the South Sea Islands shall take the place
of the competent Minister, the Ministers connected with the control
organizations concerned, and the authorized ministers of the Control
Society and Control Associations only if the cases are concerned with
the Outer-Territories regardless of the provisions of preceding
articles.
Articles 54-46: (omitted) Technical details of operation of control
mechanism in Outer-Territories.
Supplementary Rule:
This oruinance shall be enforced from the first of September, 194l.
Source: Horei Zensho (Complete Collection of Laws and Ordinances),
1941, pp. 612-620.
10 041 p81 bu

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.98)
-78-
APPENDIX VI
"Imperial Ordinance covering amendments to the Essential
Industries Organizations Law (Juyo Sangyo Dantai Roichu Kaisei Chokurei)
dated July 4, 1945.
"(1)
In Article 1, under 'Control•, add the words, 'and the
necessary administration for it.'
n(2)
In Article 4, after the words, 'to contrive for the
carrying out od generalized control•, 'and to
carry out the necessary administration for it.
"(3)
In order to achieve their objectives, the control associa-
tions will conduct the following tasks:-
n(a)
Participation in the Government planning regarding
production and distribution in the industries
concerned, and the demand and supply of materisl,
capital, and labor to be used in these industries,
and in otrer Government planning regarding the
industries concerned.
n(b)
Guidance of control regarding production and
distribution in the industriee concerned; elso
guidance of control of enterprises affiliated
with such such industries which are run by (control
associasions) mcmbers or organizations of such
members.
"(c)
Firm establishment and adjustment of the industries
concerned.
"(d)
Cooperative purchasing of materials needed by
members of organizations of membors in enterprises
affiliated with the industries concerned.
"(0)
Cooperative marketing of materi-ls produced by
such members of organizations in enterpriees
affiliated with the industries concerred.
"(f)
Cooperative calculation of the profit and loss
of affilieted enterprises.
"(g)
The making of provisions for the prctection of
the enterprises affiliated with the industries
concerned, and for the welfare of the workere,
and other necessery provisions pertaining to
the operation of the industries concerned.
10 041 p82 bu

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
-79-
*(h) Inspection of the enterprises affiliated with the
industries concerned and the auditing of their
accounts.
"(1)
Providing for the development of affiliated
enterprises, by such means as improvement
of techniques, increase in efficiency, unification
of system, and reform in administration.
concerned.
"(k) Making plans other than contained in the above
clauses which are deemed necessary in carrying
out the objectives of the control associations
in their control of the industries concerned.
*(4) Clause 6 in Article 14, and Clause 4 in Article 15 will
be eliminated.
"(5)
Clause 2, Article 22: By specification in the articles
of association, the president of a control association
may select a deputy (dairinin) who will have authority
to carry out, in place of the president, all judicial
or nonjudical matters in relation to the duties of the
business office of the control association.
"(6)
A bona fide third party may not be opposed by application
of the limitations placed on the authority of the deputy
in the preceding clause.
(7)
Clause 2, Article 27: If the president sees that any
action is detrimental to the common interest being
carried out by a corporate member of the control associa-
tion of one of the industries involved, or by the secretary
or auditor of a corporation made of a group of members,
or by a member who audits the conditions of the (word
missing) assets, and if such action is found to be
espectially hindering in the enforcement of control,
then, upon the authorization of the Minister concerned,
the president can order the release of that person
through the corporation concerned.
(8)
Clause 3, Article 35, and Clause 2 of Article 36 will be
eliminated.
(9)
Clause 2, Article 36: It is necessary that the control
associations carry out a registration as specified by
these provisions.
16 041 p83 bu

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
- 80 -
"(10) By the stipulation of the previous clause, if the
matters which should be registered are not those which
(word missing) after registration, this cannot be used
against a bona fide third party.
(11)
In Article 38 under 'Article 27' add "Part two of
Article 27'.
(12)
In the principle part of clause 3, in Article 41, change
the words 'or Article 27' to read (Article 27 or part
2 of Article 27). Make the same change in the conditional
clause of the same Article.
"By-Laws:- This ordinance will be enforced from the date
of promulgation. As for the registration which the
control associations must carry out within the definitions
of the enforcement of this ordinance, this will be
specified by a Cabinet ordinance." (Tokyo, DOMEI,
in Kana to G.E.A., July 3, 1945, 6:17 a.m. EWT).
16 041 p84 bu

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
-81-
APPENDIX VII
Transfer of Administrative Authority Law 1
(February 18, 1942, Law No. 15)
(Established in accordance with Article 18 of the National Total
Mobilization Law)
Article l. Transfer of the government authorities.
The Government transfers to the Iron and Steel Control Society,
to the Coal Control Society and to other Control Societies (established
on basis of the Major Industries Organization Ordinance) National
Policy Companies to Corporations (Eidan) and to other organizations,
governmental authority to grant authorizations and permissions arising
from the provisions of the National Total Mobilization Law, the Exports
and Imports Temporary Management Law, and various other laws and regu-
lations, except the authority which belongs to the administrative policy
of the Government. Matters concerning allocations of production and
distribution, supply of materials, which are decided by imperial
ordinances, are to be conducted by the Control Organizations.
Article 2. Guarantee for execution of authority and the fixing of
official responsibility.
For the purpose of safe guarding the authority of the control
organizations, they are considered as government agencies. Any violation
of their orders is considered as a violation of the particular law or
regulation upon which their order is based. The officials of the control
organizations are considered as government officials, and any negligence
in fulfilling their duties is to be considered the same as negligence on
the part of government officials.
Article 3. Necessary matters related to the performance of the govern-
mental authorities by the Control Organizations will be decided by
Imperial ordinance.
Article 4. Date of enforcement will be decided by imperial ordinance.
Source:
Keizai Tosei-ho Nempo (Control Law Annual Report)
Series I Vol (January-March, 1942 pp. 38-40)
1/ This is an abstract based on an exposition of the law.
18 041 p85 bu

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
- 82 -
APPENDIX VIII
METAL INDUSTRY CONTROL SOCIETY (ABSTRACT)
The Metal Industry Control Society was established 15 January
1942 to deal with metal goods and raw materials, such as electric
wire, copper, aluminum, magnesium and its compound, metal plates,
pipe, metal bars, wire and other metal articles. Twenty-seven
companies, two control unions and six industrial unions were desig-
nated by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry as members of the
society. The purpose of the socisty is to plan a centralized con-
trol administration for the metal industry and to cooperate in
accomplishing the national industrial policy. Therefore, the con-
trol society has the right to participate in Government plans in
order to direct and adjust the business of all members of the
society.
The characteristics of the society are as follows: 1) The
members of the society are all industrial companies dealing with
electric wire, pressed wire and stretched wire. The electric wire
division and the pressed and stretched wire divisions deal with
copper and aluminum. There are two or three other member industries
which deal with different materials and goods in the society
2) The business of the society is its control of manufactured metal
goods, such as metal plates, pipes, bars and other metal articles.
The society is planning to investigate working conditions
of the factories at the end of November as a means of carrying out a
concrete control of all activities in the future.
Finance, technical labor, materials, production and South
Seas policy committees have been established to coordinate activities
of the members of the society and to conduct business effectively
for the members of the society.
The society is planning to work more closely with related
Government agencies and organizations for the purpose of establishing
an emergency control production plan in accordance with national
economic policies. For this reason, the Metal Pressing and Stretching
Supply Co., Inc. (Assen Kinzoku Haikyu Kabushiki Kaisha) and the
Electric Wire Supply Co., Inc., (Densen Haikyu Kabushiki Kaisha)
have established a rationalized distribution policy to society
membera. The Metal Pressing and Stretching Supply Co. has been
directing all business activities and the Tosai Copper Sale Company
will start its business on 1 May 1942. The Electric Wire Supply Co.
will start its business on 1 August 1942.
The Society established the materials committee as a centralized
supply consulting organization to direct the distribution of materials
to the members. The society plans to hold consultations on supply
and on procuring materials for the society members. Its concrete
policies are as follows:
18 041 p86 bu

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.99)
-83-
1)
Investigaticn of the amount of essential materials in
stock. The society investigated the total amount of all
essential materials such as copper, aluminum, zinc, pig-
iron, lead, turpentine, carbon block, artificial silk
thread, cotton thread and zinc wire, in warehouses and
factories for the past year and the average quantity used
monthly in order to make good use of all materials.
2)
Complete control of all materials for local distribution.
The society is trying to control all materials such as
nails, steel wire, cement, machine oil, needles and
pocket ledgers for local distribution.
3)
Simplification of regulations. The society is planning
to simplify the regulations on the control of all materials.
4)
Application of left-over materials. The society is
planning to exchange materials among members to supple-
ment and make use of all materials in the warehouses.
An investigation card is now be ing worked out to check
on all materials on hand and to plan for their proper
use by society members in order to simplify all business
transactions for the society.
The technical committee of the Electric Wire and the Pressed and
Stretched Wire Divisions are cooperating in the following policies:
1) the investigation and research of factory establishments and their
techniques; 2) investigation of patents; 3) investigation of manu-
facturing efficiency; 4) standardization of goods, materials and
control regulations; 5) investigation of the needed quantities of
materials; 6) plans for standard plants; 7) research on improved
working techniques in factories, training in labor techniques,
development of working efficiency, establishing of prices, improv-
ment of technical administration and inspection of goods. The society
has completed technical inspection of 64 types of electric wires and
126 patents on pressed and stretched wire.
The society has been studying labor distribution, adninistra-
tion, wages, hours, welfare establishments and necessities for the
daily living of the workers in order to solve all important and urgent
problems connected with labor. The Pressed and Stretched Wire Division
is now studying the practical problems of labor distribution to
increase labor efficiency.
The society is now investigating the business condition of
society members to strengthen and rationalize production, by utiliza-
tion of all metal industries' working efficiency and improving their
techniques.
The South Seas Policy Committee is working on a policy for
distributing necessary metals to places that need them in the South
Seas. The society is also preparing to investigate necessary labor,
16 041 p87 bu

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.97)
- 84 -
fuel, and the required quantity of materials for the South Seas.
The control regulations of the Metal Industry Control Society
have not been approved because the business law which includes
approved of regulations for controls societies has not been established.
Regulations of the society will be approved around the middle of
September. Practical activities of the society are expected to start
immediately after approval of the regulations has been granted.
SOURCE: - Toseikai Nenkan, 1943 p. 149.
18 041 p88 bu

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.98)
-85-
APPENDIX IX
Control Regulations concerning Control Association of Hokkai
Warehouse Enterprises. The regulation is effective from
20 June 1944.
1. Control of warehouse enterprises, Article #14 of the Association
Regulation, will follow this Control Regulation.
2. Within two months of application, members must submit statement
containing the following items:
a. Resume of employer's personal history and financial
background.
b. Business regulation.
c. Sample of warehouse bonds.
d. Rates for storage, loading, and unloading.
e. Name and address of business office.
f. Chart of warehouse inspection.
g. Inspection chart indicating the state of management.
h. Statement of other business pesides the warehouse, owned
by the member.
3. Members must submit statement without dolay to include:
a. Monthly report of articles received, released and remaining
in storage.
b. Unpaid monthly warehouse bonds.
c. Financial list of loans, business-reports, profits and
loss statements, also statements concerning the disposal
of profit.
d. Monthly report on utilization of warehouse.
e. Yearly report of business conditions.
4. Members must report to the Association under the following circumstances:
a. When duties assigned to the Association are completed,
b. When business location or office is changed or when name
and address is abolished or changed.
c. When any regulation and executive personnel is changed.
1a 041 p89 hu

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.99)
-86-
d. When stock payment is collected and new stocks are issued.
e. When Warehouse Regulation Article #1 is granted or annulled.
5. Members must submit certified documents concerning:
a. Handling, obtaining and conserving of necessity articles.
b. Hiring of labor and working conditions.
c. Methods of raising capital.
6. When necessary, the Association shall reform management, promote
efficiency and carry on research for technical operations.
7. When necessary, the Association shall subsidize and contribute
money to improve conditions for its members.
8. In time of emergency or disaster, members must cooperate and take
measures to aid such victims.
9.
Mombers must obey the rules and regulations established by the
Associations.
10. All statements in documents submitted by members must be true
and accurate.
11.
After obtaining permission from Government, the Association may
establish, suspend, abolish, transfer, consign, entrust, or
combine the managements of various warehouse enterprises of its
members.
12.
Members must report in advance concerning opening, abolishing,
transferring, uniting, or dispersing of their warehouse enterprises
to the Association.
13. When considered necessary to control the Association, Government
may order and instruct the setting up of machineries, expanding
of warehouses, changing, suspending, transferring and renting
of members' enterprises.
14.
Members must report to the Association in advance on the purchasing
loading and unloading of machineries, establishing of warehouses,
enlarging of company, changing, suspending, abolishing and
transferring of business.
15.
Whon considered necessary, the Association may make suggestions
on the weight and number of commodities handled and methods of
obtaining and conserving necessary articles.
ra 041 p90 bu

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
- 87 -
REGULATION CONCERNING LABOR AND STORAGE:
16. Except in special cases, the Association may give permission
to receive goods for storage.
17. The Association may, when necessary, receive goods for storage,
under a joint contract but it may also give portions of goods
to other members for storage.
18. When the Association receives goods for storage under a joint
contract, it may distribute them to designated members. When
designated members receive the goods, they must perform their
duty according to regulations.
19. Designated members must agree to receive their quota of assignment
according to the rules of the Association, but when members
cannot accept the amount assigned them, they must give reasons
for not doing so and must report to the director and obtain his
approval.
20. When considered necessary, the Association may request any member
to accept for storage any assignment that it may give to the
member.
21. When necessary, the Association may transfer goods placed with
one member to another member as decided by the Chief Director.
22. When necessary, a conference may be held with the chief director
of the Association to discuss matters concerning the development
of warehouse enterprises:
a. To establish or purchase warehouses.
b. To decide on priority for receiving goods for storage.
c. To refuse or limit goods for storage.
d. To cancel contract for storage or to retum goods.
e. To insure goods for storage.
f. To decide on methods of loading and unloading.
23. When necessary, the Association may direct the management of labor
and adjust the wages of labor.
24. The Association may decide on the forms of bonds or certificates
for warehouses.
16 041 p91 bu

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.98)
-88 -
CONTROL OF RATES OR FEES FOR STORAGE:
25. The Association shall decide on the rates for storage and the
methods of loading and unloading. In special cases where rates
are increased or decreased, approval must be obtained by the
members from the Association.
26. To improve warehouse enterprises, the Associatiom may order a
part of the members or all of its members to accept special
rates for storage or rent for warehouses.
27. Members who accept the new rates may combine together in handling
the special rates and rent of warehouses.
28. Members desiring more detail on this regulation may obtain
further information from the director.
SOURCE: - Kampo, Jume 29, 1944.
16 041 p92 bu

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.99)
- 89 -
Appendix X
Electrical Engineering Control Society in Japan (abstract)
The Electrical Engineering Control Society has been established in conform-
ity with the principle of national defense which deems it necessary to pro-
mote electrical engineering to its highest point of productivity.
This Society came into existence through the Important Enterprise Act of the
Japanese Government. The general headquarters of this society are in Tokyo, and.
branch offices may be established in various cities if the head of this Society
considers it necessary. Any announcement of the Society will be considered as an
official announcement.
The duties of the Control Society may be listed as follows:
1) To produce and allocate electric machinery in accordance with the
general economic plan of the Government.
2) To guide and supervise the production of and allocation of articles
made by member organisations.
3) To plan for the supply of raw materials, capital, manpower, fuel, and
other establishments.
4) To reorganize the whole system of electrical engineering and the
manufacture of electrical machinery.
5) To determine the prices of articles produced.
6) To devise means for the advancement of technique and efficiency in
electrical engineering.
7) To concern itself with matters of investigation and research.
The organization of the Control Society consists of one chief, one deputy
chief, one chairman of the board of directors, several directors, several super-
visors, and several advisors. The chief of the whole society is appointed by the
Minister of Commerce and Industry; the deputy chief, the chairman of directore,
the directors, and the advisors, are appointed by the chief on the basis cf their
experience and academic background. The terms of tenure are: Three years for
the chief, deputy chief, chairman of the board of directors, and directors, and
two years for the supervisors and advisors.
The office of the advisors is mainly for giving advice to the chief who is
concurrently head of the advisory board. The board convenes at any time at the
suggestion of the chairman. The general affairs of the Control Society are han-
dled by the office of Administrative Affairs, the head of which is the chair-
mar of the board of directors, who administers under the guidance and supervision
16 041 p93 bu

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.98)
- 90 -
of the chief of the Control Society. The Office of Administrative Affairs
maintains the following 5 departments:
1) The department of general affairs.
2) The department of electricity.
3) The department of communications.
4) The department of natural resources.
5) The department of investigation.
Toseikai Nenkan, Tokyo, February 1943, pp. 177-185.
16 041 p94 u

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.99)
-91-
Appendix XI
Electric Machine Contrcl Sociaty (Abstract).
CHAPTER I
Article l. To cooperate in the realization of the imperial
policy in regard to the maintenance of the elec-
tric machine business, the sociaty shall aim at
establishment of an electric business which will
secure the sale and manufacturing of electric
machines, such as: steam engine boiler, stean
engine turbines, water turbines, and telegraph
instruments.
Article 2. The Sociaty shall be established according to tha
Important Industry Corporation Law and shall be
called the Electric Machine Control Society.
Article 3. The head office shall be in Tokyo. If the pres-
ident deems it necessary, branch offices shall
be established in important cities.
Article 4. The announcement of different matters of the
Society shall be made through the official
gazette.
CHAPTER II
Article 5. The Society shall be composed of members who are
in the business of electric machines and in cor-
porations organized by electric machine business
enterprisers. The Minister of Commerce and In-
dustry shall have the right of designating mem-
bers to this society.
CHAPTER III
Business and its practices
The following items shall be practiced to accom-
plish the aim of the society.
A. The socisty shall participate in the government
plan for the supply and distribution of motor
power, fuel, labor, power, and capital equipment
for the electric machine business.
B. The society shall control and supervise matters
concerning the production and distribution of
electric machines.
16 041 p05 bu

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.99)
-92-
C.
The society shall control and supervise the sup-
ply and distribution of necessary data for the
various electric machine business and enterprises.
D.
The Society shall manage the problems of security
and arrange the systems for the electric machine
business.
E.
The society shall manage matters concerning the
price of electric machines.
F.
The Society shall standardize electric goods, im-
prove administration, promote efficiency, and
olevate technical skill in connection with the
electric machine business.
G.
The Society shall conduct research and investiga-
tion pertaining to electric machine business.
H.
The Society shall investigate the business of the
members and members' corporations
I.
The Society shall handle other necessary matters
that are related to the accomplishment of the aims
of the society.
Article 7.
The control over the business of the members or
members' corporation shall be done according to
fixed control regulations.
Article 8.
Special business matters of the Society shall
be conducted separately.
CHAPTER IV.
Officials
The Society shall have the following officials:
one president, one chairman of the board of di-
rectors, a few directors, a few inspectors, a
few councillors. If necessary, the society shall
have one vice-president.
Article 10.
The president shall control and supervise the
business of electric machines on behalf of the
Society. The vice-president shall assist the
president and in the president's absence he
16 041 p96 bu

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.98)
-93-
shall act for the president.
Article 1l.
The president shall be appointed directly by
the Minister of Commerce and Industry. The
president shall choose men of experience for
the other offices with the approval of the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Only the
inspectors shall be elected on the agreement of
more than half the councillors.
Article 12.
The terms of office shall be as follows: president
3 years; vice-president, 3 years; chairman of the
board of directors, 3 years; members of the board
of directors, 3 years; inspectors, 2 years; and. coun-
cillors, 2 years.
Article 13.
The president, vice-president, chairman and
members of the board of directors shall not
participate or undertake any other business
without the approval of the Minister of Com-
merce and Industry.
CHAPTER V.
Artiole 14.
Meetings shall be of two kinds, general and com-
mittee meetings.
Article 15.
The general meetings shall be of two kinds,
regular general meetings and temporary general
meetings.
Article 16.
The president shall make decisions on the follow-
ing matters with the approval of a general meeting:
A.
Changes in the articles of the Society;
B.
Budget and income expenditure;
C.
Method of collooting taxes.
Article 17.
The presidont shall report on the business of
the soiety and he shall have the inspeotors
report on finanoial matters of the sooiety.
Artiole 18.
Committee Meetings shall be held whenever the
president deems it necessary. The president
18 061 p07 bu

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
-94-
shall preside as chairman of the committee
meetings.
CHAPTER VI
Bureau of Business:
Article 19. A business bureau shall be established in the
society to manage the business affairs.
Article 20. The cheirman of the board of directors shall
control and manage the business bureau under
the direction of the president.
Article 2l. The regulations concerning the officials and
employees shall be made up separately.
Article 22. The society shall impose a tax upon the members.
Article 23. The society shall get the approval of the Min-
ister of Commerce and Industry, whenever the
Society has new business. to deel with. When-
ever necessary the Society shall impose a
special levy upon its members.
Article 24. The levy shall be collected according to the
special regulations set for taxes.
Article 25. The fiscal year slall begin on 1 April and
end on 3l March of the following year.
CHAPTER VIII
Dissolution and liguidation.
Article 26. Dissolution of the Society shall be made by
the order of the Minister of Commerce and
Industry.
Article 27. The liquidator shall be chosen by the court
of justice which shell be served the notice
by the Minister of Commerce and Industry.
Article 28. The liquidator shall have the right of manag-
ing the liquidation on behalf of the Society.
Article 29. The liquidator shall decide on the method of
liquidation and property disposition.
16 041 p98 bu

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.98)
-95
Article 30. Even after a dissolution, if 1t is found nec-
essary, the Society shall colleot any necessary
levy from the members with the approval of the
court, to settle the debts of the Society.
CHAPTER XV
Fine for violating the regulations.
Article 3l. Any member who violates these regulations shall
be charged with a fine of 5,000 yen.
SOURCE: -
Toseikai Nenkan, 1943, Part II, 177-180
16 041 p99 bu

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.99)
- 96 -
Appendix XII
Abstract of Regulations Governing the Establishment of a
Warehouse Control Society (Effective 1 May 1944).
In order to increase transportation efficiency and
to harmonize the distribution of essential resources, the
proposal to establish the Warehouse Control Society was
presented by the Minister of Transportation, that this estab-
lishment should be rushed by appointing a comnittee to pre-
pare and to finish within the month of April so as to operate
it from 1 May.
I. The Establishment of Control Society.
1) Control Society should be established in order to
control general warehouses of six great harbors.
2) The affairs of control society should be of enter-
prising warehouse business. New equipment may be arranged to
protect warehouses and their establishment with the headquarters
in Tokyo and branch offices in important areas.
3) Private Warehouses or business warehouses should be
rented or commissioned as ordared by the control society.
4) The readjustment order should be issued by the control
society when warehouse is to be rented.
5) Official or public warehouses will be lent to the
control society.
6) The Control Society should arrange with the Japan Harbor
Transportation Association, small scale land transportation busi-
ness, and exchange corporations to maintain closer mutual connec-
tions.
II. The establishment of Control Union and Control Society.
1) In the district zones under local administrative
society, Control Union should be organized in parallel with the
Control Society. The function of this union should be to under-
take the control activities of warehouse business under the
established regulations of commercial union.
2) Under the readjustment of control sociaty and control
union, the whole nation's warehouse business may be controlled
when the essential industry demands it.
16 041 p100 bu

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.99)
-97-
3) The president of Control Society automatically
becomes the head of all control associations and he selects other
personnel of the society.
4) The Control Society should encourage cooperation
among all warehouse businesses in order to inorease une efficiency
of transportation power to insure the complete unification or
harbor transportation and all small scale land transportation
business.
III.
The Purposes of Warehouse Control Society.
1) To bring the marimum efficiency of transportation
to the six great harbor warehouses and to decrease the procrastination
of harbor freight work.
2) To enlarge the utility of sea routes for unified and
carefully planned transportation.
3). To see that the warehouse business men do not keep
or distribute too freely the essential resources, but manage them
under the orders of the control society. In addition, to protect
the essential resources from the danger of enemy air raids.
4) To unify the regulatioms of small scale land
transportation as of 1938, and of sea transportation as of 1940,
so that the function personnel and enterprise of transportation
may be closely connected and thorough.
The control society becomes the legal owner of all six
great harbor warehouses and the control society acts under the orders
of the Government in distribution and custody of the essential goods.
The Warhouse Control Society shall be operated from
1 May, with the capital of 20,000,000 yen. If 1t is necessary for
a central organization to control a nation-wide association, the
Government will act upon it.
16 041 p101 bu

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.99)
-98-
APPENDIX XIII
Control of Electrical Engineering Industries
The nine electric power distribution companies of the
country are under the complete control of the state but there
has been no particular control over the 5,Ooo electrical en-
gineering industries for the nime electric power distribution com-
panies and their consumers. Their work is to connect elec-
tric lines to the homes and make small extension lines.
The Electric Bureau of the Ministry of Munitions is
now going to systematize the 5,000 •lectrical engineering in-
dustries by aiming at the following items:
1) Efficient utilization of labor and materials.
2)
Closer cooperation between the engineering indus-
tries and the nine companies.
3)
Absolute security for controlling the electric
lights during an air raid.
4)
Mobilization of employees for defense during an
air raid.
The essential points for adjusting the elestrical
engineering industries are as follows:
1)
To establish nine electrical engineering indus-
try stock companies or one to each area in which
the nine electric power distribution centers are
located.
2)
To organize local control associations, which will
be made up of electrical engineoring stock com-
panies in each district, such companies must have
more than 20 engineers and their engineering con-
tracts must add up to more than 100,000 yen a year.
3)
To organize a central control society whose members
will be the local control associations and electrical
engineering industries whose contracts add up to
more than 1,000,000 yen a year and whose employees
consist of more than 10o0 people.
4)
To reorganize the present electrical industry associations
according to the area in which they are located.
5) To require the local control associations to become
18 061 p10 bu

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.97)
-99-
members of the local civil Engineering construc-
tion control association, and to require the Cen-
tral Electric Control Society to become a member
of the Japan Civil Engineering Construction Con-
trol Society.
SOURCE:
Mainichi Shimbun
(Tokyo) 4 April, 44.
10 0el pros bu

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.96)
- 100 -
Appondix XIV
Abstract of Regulations on Lusber and Charcoal Production.
1) The local governor ahall designate the acreage af
standing trees to be cut, the time for cutting the trees, the
time for the sale of the lumber and other necessary items for
the process of cuttiny down trees on the mountains.
2) Also the local governor shall record the place and
acreage of the standing trees, the tize of the cutting, the
price and time of the sale of such lumber and other necessary
items in the document of his arder for cuttin: down the trees.
3) The ceiling price of the standing trees shall be
the same as the ceiling price stated in the seventh article
of the Price Control Order, which is the price of lumber with
all the expenses of cutting, shipping and other labor excluded.
4) Local governor shall designate the time, the methods
of production and other peoessary items in his arder for char-
coal production, and be shall also designate the time, price
quantity, time of shipping, place of shipping and other nec-
essary items in his order for the sale of charcoal.
5) The Charcoal Supply Adjustment Regulation will
be abolished and this order shall become effective 29 June
1944.
SOURCB: , 29 J 1944
10041 10b0

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.98)
- 101 -
Appendix XV
Pit Wood Control Association
The Pit Wood Control Association (Komoku Tosei Kumiai)
was established in Northern Kyushu and started its control
business transactions 1 July 1944 in order to 1) control the
supply of wood used for supports in order to fill the demands
of coal miners in 20 prefectures around Northern Kyushu, 2) lower
the expenses of the wood producers, 3) establish a sum of
7,500,000 yen as an encouragement fund to belp wood producers
transport their wood from the place of production to the con-
sumer and distribute all necessary working materials to the
wood producers. Three-fifths of the coal produced in Japan
comes from this area.
The establishment of a Pit Wood Control Sociaty has
been expected in Hokkaido, Rastern Japan and Osaka since the
establishment of this association in Kyushu.
SOURCE: Asahi Shimbun, 16 July 1944.
16 041 P108 b

=== Page 532 === (confidence 0.99)
-102-
Appendix XVI
Regulations of the Woolen Goods Control
Society
I. General Regulations
1)
The Purpose of this society shall be to support
the national policy of controlling all woolen
goods business in order to strengthen the
national economic system.
2)
This society shall be called the Woolen Goods
Control Society and shall be based on the Decree
of Essential Industry.
3)
The headquarters of this society shall be located
in Tokyo and branch offices shall be established
in other cities.
4)
The announcement of this society shall be revealed
in the gezette.
II. Members
5)
This society shall be composed of all woolen busi-
ness firma which have been approved by the Minister
of Commerce.
III. Work and its execution
6)
In order to fulfill the aim of regulation No. 1
the following work shall be done by members:
a) To aid the government in acquiring
materiel, capital and labor for the
increase of wool production.
b) To direct and control the production and
distribution of the woolen industry.
c) To control the supply of capital, mate-
rial and labor for the woolen industry.
d) To fix the price for woolen goods.
e) To promote planning the woolen indus-
try.
f)
To improve the skill and to increase
the efficiency of the woolen industry.
16 041 p106 bu

=== Page 533 === (confidence 0.99)
- 103 -
cerning the woolen industry.
h) Besides the above items, other nec-
essary works for the benefit of this
society will be required.
7) Control regulations of this society shall be
recognized by the Minister of Commerce.
The president shall consult with the councillors
in order to formulate control regulations.
8) Essential affairs of this society shall be ex-
ecuted by the president.
IV. Officers
9) This society shall have one president, one chief
director and a certain number of directors, super-
intendents and councillors.
10) The president shall be recommended through a mem-
ber of the Civil Service Committee and shall be
appointed by the Ministry of Commerce.
The chief director and directors shall have good
knowledge of and experience in the woolen indus-
try and their appointments shall be approved by
the Minister of Commerce.
Councillors and superintendent should have ex-
perience in the woolen industry and their ap-
pointments shall be approved by the president.
11)
The appointments of the president, the chief
director and the directors shall be for three
years each and of the superintendents and coun-
cillors, two years each. If the president wishes
to resign during his incumbency his resignation
shall be approved by the Minister of Commerce.
12) The president, the chief director and directors
cannot engage in other business except with the
approval of the Minister of Commerce.
13) The president shall direct and control all essential
16 041 p107 bu

=== Page 534 === (confidence 0.99)
-104-
affairs of the woolen industry and other activities
related to this society.
The chief director and directors shall assist the
president in all works and act for him in his ab-
sence.
Superintendents shall examine and audit the finan-
cial status of this society.
Councillors shall answer and give opinions to, the
president upon request.
V. Conferences
14) There are two kinds of conferences, namely:
a)
general conference
b)
councillors conferences.
The general conference shall be composed of all
members of this society while the councillors
conference shall be composed of only the coun-
cillors of this society.
15) There are also two kinds of general conferences
namely:
a) ordinary conference
b) emergency conferences
The ordinary conference shall be held in May
of each year, while an emergency conference
may be called whenever it is needed. Confer-
ences shall be called by the president.
16) The president shall consult all members at the
conference concerning any change in the regu-
lations or the financial budget of the society.
17) At the annual ordinary conference the president
shall report on all affairs and conditions and
the superintendents shall report on the finan-
cial statements of the society.
18) A councillors conference may be called at the
will of the president. The president shall be
the chairman of the councillor's conference.
16 04l p108 bu

=== Page 535 === (confidence 0.99)
-105-
VI. Bureau of General Affairs
19) A Bureau of General Affairs shall be set up to
handle all general affairs of this society.
20) The chief director shall bo the head of the
Bureau of General Affairs and shall be under
the direction and supervision of the president.
21) Several departments shall be created in the Bu-
reau of Affairs and they shall be headed up by
the diractors.
VII. Accounting
22) The fiscal calender of this society shall be
from April 1 of one year to March 31 of the
following year.
23) All members shall pay a membership fee.
The membership fee and the method of collecting
it shall be determined by the president. He
shall consult members opinions.
VIII. Dissolution and Liquidation
24) This society may be dissolved by the order of
the Minister of Commerce.
25) The liquidator shall be selected by the court.
26)
The liquidator shall have full authority to
represent this society.
27)
The liquidator shall determine the method of
liquidating and handling property which shall
be approved by the court.
IX. Penalty
28) A member who violates the general regulations
of this society shall be fined not more than
5,000 yen.
16 041 P109 bu

=== Page 536 === (confidence 0.96)
- 106 -
29) A member who violates the control regulations
of this society shall be fined not more than
10,000 yen.
ScURCE: Toseika1 Nenkan (Control Society Year Pook)
Tokyo, p. 271, Februery 10, 1943.
26 041 p110 bu

=== Page 537 === (confidence 0.99)
-107-
Appendix XVII
The Control Regulations of the Japan Bicycle Control
Society (Abstract)
Chapter I General Rules.
Article 1. The control of the bicycle business by
the members of the Society is regulated
according to the following regulations
supplementing the order, established by the
Society.
Article 2. To control the production end distribution
of the Society periodically, a year is
divided into 4 periods. The first period:
April to June. The second period: July
to September. The third period: October
to December. The fourth period: January
to March.
Article 3.
In this regulation of the Society, "Manu-
facturer" means a manufacturer as a member
of the Society; wholesale merchant means
a wholesaler of the Society; the Affiliated
Association means -an affiliated association
acting as the distribution adjustment con-
trol society of the city, province, urban
prefecture, and prefecture.
Chapter II Production Control.
Article 4.
The manufacturer shall not manufacture bi-
cycles or their accessories, nor shall he
do remaking, without having permission from
the Society.
The manufacturer shall not manufacture the
articles that are not registered in the
SocietyMembers' Directory.
Article 5. By the approval of authorities concerned,
the Society shal! decide on the number of
bicycles to be manufactured and the arti-
cles for repair use. The Society shall
direct the manufacturer accordingly.
Article 6.
Those who desire to be engaged in bicycle-
remaking business shall apply for the ap-
proval of the Society.
10 041 p111 bu

=== Page 538 === (confidence 0.99)
-108 -
The application shall cover the following
points:
a) Indication of the amount of material,
and indication of the dealer from
whom the material should be purchased.
b)
Indication of the amount of used mate-
rials, the process planned, and amount
of material to be abandoned.
Amounts and kinds of the materials
which are to be apportioned to dif-
ferent workers for remaking.
d) The authentication by the purchasing
parties concerned is to be presented.
Article 7.
The members of the Society shall register
the following equipment:
a) Machine and electric motors.
b) Storehouses
c) Stores
Article 8.
The Society shall have the right of restricting
the equipment listed under the previous items.
Article 9.
The Society shall designate the dealer
from whom the manufacturer is to purchase
the materials.
Article 10. The Society shall prepare the steel and
other materials for distribution before
directing each member to manufacture bi-
cycles.
Article 1l. The Society shall take a special consider-
ation concerning the following items in
regard to the records of individual members.
But the Society shall act accordingly when
there is a special direction by the author-
ities concerned.
16 041 P112 b

=== Page 539 === (confidence 0.99)
 -109-
a) Actual results of production capacity
of an individual factory.
b)
Convenience of packing and transporta-
tion.
c) Grade and quality of the manufactured
goods.
d) The result of the consignment of goods.
Article 12. Manufacturer shall not refuse the order for
manufacturing after the order was given,
without having a special reason.
Article 13. Manufacturer shall present the manufactured
bicycles within the designated period.
Article 14.
Manufacturer shall not make use of mate-
rials for any other purpose than the de-
signated one.
Article 15.
Manufacturer shall not ship the bicycles
without having them examined by the Japan
Bicycle Investigation Association.
Article 16.
Manufacturer shall follow the regulations
and notices of the Japan Bicycle Inspec-
tion Association.
Chapter III. Distribution and Control
Article l7. According to the direction of authorities
concerned, every three months the Society
shall notify the Affiliated Association
and members of the Association the number
of bicycles and accessories to distribute
to the dealers of different cities, pro-
vinces, and prefectures.
Article 18.
The Society shall have joint business with
the Affiliated Associations, the members
of the Association, and the dealers whom
the authorities concerned have designated.
Article 19. The Affiliated Associations shall decide
on the number of bicycles and articles
16 041 p112 bu

=== Page 540 === (confidence 0.99)
-110-
for repair use and accessories to dis-
tribute to the retail dealers, after
having been notified by the Society.
Article 20.
The estimation and the distribution of
the previous items shall be made accord-
ing to the order of the authorities con-
cerned.
Article 2l. The Affiliated Associations shall not
make use of goods for purposes other
than those designated by the Society.
Article 22.
The Society shall direct the Affiliated
Associations, whenever there is any di-
rection by the authorities concerned,
to take special measures on the adjust-
ments of bicycles.
Chapter IV. Punishment for violators.
Article 23. When the members of the Society violate
the regulations of Article 4, 14, 15, 21,
they shall be fined not more than 500 yen.
Article 24.
Whe.: the members of the Society violate
the regulations of Article 5, 6, 7, 16,
20, they shall be fined not more than one-
thousand yen.
SOURCE: Kampo, July 13, 1944.
16 041 p114 bu

=== Page 541 === (confidence 0.99)
-111-
Appendix XVIII
Essential Materials Supervision Corporation Law1
(Juyo Busshi Kanri Eidan-po)
February 24, 1942, Law No. 69
Name of Corporation:
Juyo Busshi Kanri Eidan
Capitalization:
Yen 20,000,000, supplied entirely
by the Government
Purpose:
To guarantee and increase stocks
of essential materials in wartime;
to provide for efficient and ade-
quate utilization of the stored
essential materials."
The content of this Law in general is similar to the Industrial
Equipment Corporation Law (Sangyo Setsubi Eidan-po). The con-
crete projects of the Corporation are listed below.
1. Storage of ths essential materials to provide for their
continuous supply to meet the demand in emergency cases, such
as air raids. If the reserved materials are enormous and the
Corporation!'s facilities are insufficient, it is provided that
the Corporation can order others to store them. (Article 18).
2. Purchase, importation and sale of the essential materials.
This involves procurement of the materials for stock piling,
and disposal of the stocked materials. The Corporation can de-
mand that those who store the essential materials report on
their books and documents .(Article 17)/
3. The Corporation may engage in activities necessary to
achieve its purpose, (for instance, establishment of new ware-
houses). However, since the activities of the Corporation are
concerned with the movement of materials, those activities should
be in accordance with the plans of the Government (Article 16).
The following are characteristic points of the law concerning
the corporation's financial structure:
1. It lacks provisions for issue of debentures.
2. It lacks provisions for compensation of the Corporation's
losses.
It includes penalties in case of negligence on the part
of Corporation's Officials, which is different from some
other Corporation's such as the Industrial Equipment
Management Corporation.
The name of this Law is alternatively translated as Vital
Materials Management Corporation Law.
16 041 p115 bu

=== Page 542 === (confidence 0.97)
-112 -
Date of enforcement of this law is decided as March 5, 1942 by
the Imperial Ordinance No. 122, March 4, 1942.
Source: Keisai Tosei-ho Nempo (Economic Control Law Annual
Report) Series I, Vol. I, (January-March 1942)
p. 83 - 84
10 041 p116 bu

=== Page 543 === (confidence 0.99)
-113-
Appendix XIX
Regulations of Small Scale Business Control Society (abstract)
I.
General Regulations
1) The purpose of this society shall be to support the
national policy of placing all small scale business
within the territory of Tokyo and Osaka under the
direction and control of the National Financial Con-
trol Society.
2)
This society shall be set up in accordance with the
decree of the National Financial Control Society.
3)
?he headquarters of this society shall be located in
Tckyo.
4)
The jurisdiction of this society shall be within the
territory of Tokyo and Osaka.
II
Members
5) This society shall be composed of all small business
firms within the designated territory that come under
the direction of the competent minister.
6)
Members shall not evade, hinder or refuse inspection
by the society's officers concerning their property
and business conditions.
7) When a member of this society requests material which
concerns the National Financial Control Society and
its affairs, the society shall supply the material
without any delay.
8) Members shall obey all control regulations formulated
by the society.
III. Work and its execution
9) In order to fulfill the aim of Regulation No. 1, the
following work shall be done by all members:
a) Direct and control capital, loans and the
exchange of bank notes.
b) Promote the preparation of small scale business.
c) Strengthen the structure of small scale business.
d) Promote a closer relationship between small
scale business and industry.
16 041 p217 bu

=== Page 544 === (confidence 0.99)
-114-
e) Make surveys and do research concerning small
scale business.
f) Besides the above items, other necessary works
for the benefit of this society shall be re-
quired.
10) Control regulations of this society shall be recognized
by the Minister of Finance.
The chief director shall consult counselors in order to
formulate or modify control regulations.
11) Essential affairs of this society shall be executed by
the chief director.
IV.
Officers
12) This society shall have a chief director, a vice-director
and a certain number of superintendents and counselors.
13) The chief director shall direct and control all small
scale business affected by this society.
The vice-director shall assist the chief director in all
works and act for him in his absence.
Superintendents examine and audit the financial status of
the society.
Counselors shall answer and give opinions to the chief
directors and vice-director's inquiries.
14)
The chief director shall be appointed by the Minister of
Finance and he should have a good knowledge of and ex-
perience in small scale business.
The vice-director and counselors should also understand
and have experience in small-scale business and their
appointments must be approved by the chief director and
the Minister-of Finance.
Superintendents shall be selected by the majority of mem-
bers of this society.
15)
The appointments of the chief director and vice-director
shall be for three years and those of superintendents
and counselors for two years each. If the chief director
or vice-director wishes to resign during his incumbency
his resignation should be approved by the Minister of
Finance.
16 041 p118 b

=== Page 545 === (confidence 0.99)
-115-
V. Conference
16) There shall be two kinds of conferences namely:
a) ordinary conferences
b) emergency conferences.
The ordinary conference shall be held once a
year while an emergency conference shall be
called whenever it is needed. Conferences
shall be called by the chief director and noti-
fications of the conference shall be mailed to
members one week before the meeting is held.
Purpose, date and place of 'the conference shall
be mentioned in the notification. The chief
director shall be the chairman of the conference.
17)
The chief director shall consult all members in
the conference concerning any change in the re-
gulations or the financial budget of the society.
18)
At the annual ordinary conference the chief di-
rector shall report on all affairs and conditions
and the superintendents shall report on the finan-
cial statements of the society.
VI. Financial Management
19) The fiscal calendar of this society shall be
from April 1 of one year to March 31 of the
next year.
20) All members shall pay a membership fee.
The membership fee and the method of collecting
it shall be deternined by the chief director.
He shall consult the members at the ordinary
conference and adopt the members' opinion.
VII. Dissolution and Liquidation
21) This society may be dissolved by the order of
the Minister of Finance.
22) The liquidator shall be selected by the court.
16 041 p119 bu

=== Page 546 === (confidence 0.99)
-116-
VIII. Penalty
23)
A member who violates the general regulations
of this society shall be fined a sum of not
over 2,000yen.
24)
A member who violates the control regulations of
this society shall be fined a sum not over
5,000 yen.
(Toseikai Nenkan Control Society Year Book, Tokyo p. 341).
16 041 p120 bu

=== Page 547 === (confidence 0.99)
-117-
Appendix XX
Middle and Small Scale Industries.(Abstract).
1. Economic reorganization.
National economy has been reorganized for the purpose
of expanding munitions production, promoting industrial ex-
portation and reducing peacetime industries. Medium and
small-scale industries have been converted into munitions
industries. This procedure was begun in 1940, and medium
and small scale industries have been reorganized since 1941
for a unification of industries.
II.
The policies of industrial mobilization.
1) Form of unification. Small industrial and limited
companies were legalized, for the Government has encouraged
medium and small scale industries to combine into associations
since 1939 and the members were allowed to maintain independ-
ent businesses. The number of amall industrial associations
for different industries in March 1942 is as follows:-
Industry
Number.of small industrial associations
Fabric
1,035
Metal
119
Machine
203
Pottery
15
Chemical
17
Lumber and Woodcraft
171
Printing
15
Others
183
Total
1,758
The new form of limited companies became effective on
1 January 1940; they were completely unified in management and
in production. The number of limited companies and their capital
in March 1942 for the different industries is as follows:
10 041 p121 bu

=== Page 548 === (confidence 0.99)
-118-
Number of
limited
Industry
companies
Capital (Yen)
Percentage
Fabric
584
47,427,600
35.7
Metal
87
6,585,500
5.0
Machine
414
29,600,800
22.3
Chemical
181
10,632,600
8.1
Pottery
44
2,927,000
2.2
Printing and
Book-binding
18
960,400
0.7
Lumber and
Woodcraft
175
8,866,200
6.7
Food
187
22,088,700
15.1
Gas & Electric
3
30,000
0.0
Others
137
5,635,500
4.2
To tal
1,830
132,804,300
100.0
The Government issued an outline of the new system of
economic structure in the reorganization of economic organiza-
tions on 7 December 1940:
1) The constitution of economic organizations.
All enterprises and associations of essential indus-
tries may be unified and all owners and enterprisers of essen-
tial industries may be compelled to join the unified economic
orgenizations according to the classification of industries as
special corporation under the management of directors vho are
approved by the Government. Enterprises outside of Japan may
also be compelled to join the unified economic organizations
according to the classification of their industries.
2) The functions of economic organizations.
These economic organizations according to the clas-
sification of industries are the cooperative structures of the
Government. All plans, proposals and projects may be approved
by the Government and the Government, when necessary, supervises
production, distribution and management of these organizations.
The fundamentel spirit of these organizations is sacrifice for
the development of national economy.
16 041 p122 bu

=== Page 549 === (confidence 0.99)
-119-
3) Relationsrip with Government.
The Government has the right to direct and super-
vise and develop these economic organizetions.
III. Relationship with the Control Societies.
The existing industriel associations have weaknesses
in their control systems. The industrial associetions had
as their aim the making of e joint profit and individual
member has the right to voice his opinion in the management
of the industries. But the Control Societies under the re-
organization of national economy has the aim of pursuing a
unified control of national policies. The Control Societies
have been organized under force and members have been com-
pelled to join by force, while the industriel associations
were organized independently and members joined of their own
free will, so that there was no principle or controlled guidance.
Furthermore, the Control Societies were orgenized with the aim of
promoting the entire strength of national economy by controlling
production, distribution and the direction of industries. They
serve the nation by adjusting industriel problems, improving
industrial skills, advencing industrial efficiency, improving
manegement and developing the business of menbers.
Now is the time for the Government to show its authority
in controlling the essential industries of the nation, and for
this purpose, the Government issued regulations for adjusting
industriel enterprises on ll December to restrict the trensfer,
investment, disposal and use of private industry.
1) The law for control of enterprises shall be enforced
to establish a firm foundation for national economy. All busi-
ness enterprises must be operated with the permission of Gov-
ernment and the Control Society, and the Government and Control
Society alone cen transfer any industriel enterprise. In addi-
tion, new arrengements concerning an industry or additional ar-
rangements concerning an industry or the improvement of industrial
arrangements shall be made only with the permission of Government
and the Control Society.
2) Government-designated industries are prohibited to
transfer or discontinue their work without the permission of
the Government. The Government alone has the right to read just
any arrangement in regard to commissioning, taking charge of and
transferring industrial enterprises. Also the Government
16 041 p123 bu

=== Page 550 === (confidence 0.96)
-120-
shall issue orders for the organization or reorganization or
discontinuation of limited or stock companies.
SOURCE: Rodo Nenkan 1943 Part I, p. 160-166.
16 p41 p124 bu

=== Page 551 === (confidence 0.99)
-121
Appendix XXI
Export Associations
Exporters' Associations (Yushutsu Kumiai) have come
into existence not only for the protection of the yen and
procurement of foreign exchange much needed for the prosecu-
tion of the war efforts, but also to provide the means and
measures for the acquisition of the war materials wherever
it was possible on one hand, and for the reduction of con-
sumption of exportable goods in Japan on the other.
The Exporters' Associations were not of recent origin.
The existed as far back as 1925, but with gradual develop-
ment of the military activity in the Far East the number of
Exporters' Associations has been remarkedly increased. Thus,
in 1935 there were 85 Exporters' Associations as against 14
in 1930.
Of the total number of the Exporters' Associations
covering various industries, there were by 1937, 40 associa-
tions related to goods, 28 to markets, and 17 to goods and
markets. Associations which exercised control over the whole
country numbered 34, while 51 were of local character.
Of the associations relating to the markets, the re-
gional classification was as follows: Manchoukuo (15),
Soviet Union (2), United States and Canada (5), Central
America (8), Argentina (2), Europe (3), and British India
(3), Africa, Balkans and near East (4), Philippines (2).
and South Asia (2).
The activities of the Exporters' Associations became
in the course of time, over-lapping with those of the Indus-
trial Associations. (Kogyo Kumiai). This was particularly
noticeable in the production and distribution of consumers
goods, notably textiles. The seepage of various goods, es-
pecially all cotton piece goods into the home market became
increasingly dangerous to the government's object, by 1937,
of promoting export trade to build up the necessary exchange
to purchase vital raw materials, machine tools, etc. for the
expanding way industries. To correct it the Commodity Link
System was introduced in 1937.
16 041 p125 bu

=== Page 552 === (confidence 0.99)
-122-
Appendix XXII
Regulations Governing Special Responsibilities in Keeping
The following companies are designated to purchase and
keep safe miscellaneous articles for export.
Japan Trade Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Celluloid Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Rubber Articles Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Glass Articles Prosperity Co., Ltd.
Japan Machine Export Prosperity Co., Ltd.
The special responsibility to keep safe the miscellaneous
articles for export for the time of the reopening of world-trade
for prosperity is an important matter. Therefore the above men-
tioned companies are authorized to purchase now and keep safe
miscellaneous articles in accordance with the following regula-
tions:
I. The scope of enrorcement.
The above mentioned five companies are authorized as the
organizations that have special responsibilities to keep safe
miscellaneous articles for export:
1) Luxury articles that have been prohibited under con-
trol regulations.
2)
Miscellaneous articles that have not been manufactured
on account of the difficulty of getting raw materials.
3)
Miscellaneous articles that are of little use to the
Japanese but are made for foreign markets.
II. The method of enforcement.
1) The special ability to keep safe miscellaneous articles
for exportation for the time of the reopening of world
trade, means the ability to maintain management to pur-
chase,and keep safe the miscellaneous articles with the
minimum effort and expense.
2)
Superior factories that have manufacturing skills and
experience shall be designated to keep safe the mis-
cellaneous articles for later exportation at the time
of the reopening of trade for prosperity.
3)
Such factories are designated as the factories that have
direct relationship with the above mentioned designated
companies.
16 041 7126 bu

=== Page 553 === (confidence 0.99)
-123-
4)
The iesignated companies will order miscellaneous
articles from the designated factories to export
to Thailand, French Indo-China, and the Southern
Areas.
5)
The designated factories shall deal with the de-
signated companies to export their entire manufac-
tured articles to third nations.
6)
Japan Trade Prosperity Co. shall distribute ap-
propriate raw materials for manufecturing miscel-
laneous articles to the designated factories with
the permission of the Ministry of Commerce and In-
dustry.
III.
Mèthods of enforcement.
1)
Under the leadership of the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry the committee for safe-keeping miscellaneous
articles for export shall be established in each de-
signated company. The committee shall consist of
officials of each designated company.
2)
Each committee shall propose the plans of each fac-
tory as to the methou for keeping safe the miscel-
laneous articles, and shall obtain the permission
of the sinistry of commerce end industry.
3)
The Ministry of Commerce and Industry shall instruct
all other necessary matters pertaining to the en-
forcement of the above regulations.
1
These regulations indicate (a) Post-war trading objectives
of Japan and (b) the constant urge to build up foreign ex-
change balances by starving the home markets which could
readily absorb a larger proportion of the export products
were it not for controls such as this and the commodity
link system.
SOURCE: Keisai Toseiho Nempo, Tokyo, 1942 P. 430-31
16 041 p127 Du

=== Page 554 === (confidence 0.99)
-124-
Appendix XXIII
THE CO:MODITY LINK SYSTEM IN JAPAN
The substance of the Commodity Link System involves an ex-
change of a set of commodities by means of export and im-
port regulations imposed by the government. This system was
introduced in Japan in 1937, with a view to insure the impor-
tation of war supplies, while the imports of commodities for
general consumption had been. placed under rigorous control
by means of the Import Permit System or the Import Exchange
Permit System.
The Link System; i.e., the linking between exports and im-
ports of individual traders or organizations, may be divided
into Import Privilege System and an Obligatory Export System.
The former is a system for permitting imports in link with
export trade already completed, which thus gives the export-
er the privilege to import. The latter, on the contrary, is
a system of obligatory export, since the import trade already
permitted is to be linked with the export trade to be com-
pleted as a necessary condition. There are two types of the
link system, an individual commodity linking system and a
group linking system. Most of the link systems in operation
in 1939 were the individual types operated predominately by
the large-scale individual concerns. The group linking sys-
tem was adopted only in the brush and rayon piece-goods trade.
In the latter industries the entrepreneurs as well as the
manufacturers are for the most part petty individuals. In
these industries imports and exports dominate the situation
exercised jointly through their organizations.
The commodity link system was enforced with reference to seven
commodities:
1. Soap link
4. Hat link
2. Brush link
5.
Japarese paper link
3. Wool link
6.
Cotton link
7. Rayon link
All commodity link systems in force by the end of 1939 except
the hat link system were operated as guantity link systems.
The hat link system was the only value link system in force.
Under this system import of raw materials was permitted up to
35 percent of the value of the hats, f.o.b. or 50 percent of
the value of hat bodies. Against these imports, it was re-
quired that the corresponding products were exported within
eight months, either as hats at three times the value of
10 041 p128 bu

=== Page 555 === (confidence 0.99)
-125-
The group link system and the value link system would appear
to have preference in the future as against individual and
quantitative link systems.
The most notable example of the efficiency of the link system
can be seen in cotton trade where it works exclusively through
the spinning companies which exercise control over all sections
of the industry. Cotton spinners acquire the right to import
raw cotton when they export yarn or tissues, or when they de-
liver yarn to officially designated associations of the manu-
facturer or the amount needed for the manufacture of the ex-
ported yarn or tissues, or vhen they deliver yarn to offical-
ly designated associations of manufacturers or exporters. The
value of raw cotton which may be imported is determined by the
amount needed for the manufacture of the exported yarn or piece
goods. Gray goods have to be exported within two months and
finished goods within two months and finished goods within
three months after the import of the raw material contained
in them and with a few exceptions the production of cotton
ma ufacturtrs for domestic consumption has been prohibited
as stocks of cotton goods placed under governmental control.
1/ For fuller details see Kyoto University Economic Review,
April and July 1939 - "The Link System in Japan" by
Prof. Kichihiko Taniguchi.
2/ Ibid., pp. 16 - 17.
16 041 p129 bu

=== Page 556 === (confidence 0.99)
-126-
Appendix XXIV
THE DEVELOPIENT OF TPE COMMODITY LIN: SYSTEN IN JAPAN
Commodities
Date
linked
Types of
Associations
Designation
enforced
Exports
Imports
System
concerned
Soap link
October
Soap
Beef
Export ob-
Japan Soap
1, 1937
Tallow
ligation
Exporters
Spices 6) Individual
Association
link
Quantity
link 7)
Brush link
January
Brush
Bristles
Export ob-
Bristle Im-
1, 1930
ligation
porters'
Natural
Group link
Control As-
ebony
Quantity
sociation
link
Natural Ebony
Mexican
Importers'
fibre
Control Ass'n
Cow bones
Cow Bone Im-
porters Con-
trol Ass'n.
Wool link
March
Woolen
Wool
Import
Wool Importers'
15, 1938 goods
privilege
Control Ass'n.
Export
Janan Woolen
obligation
Yarn Export
Individual
Association
link
Japan Woolen
Quantity
Textile Ex-
link
port Ass'n.
Japan Hosiery
Export Ass'n.
Japan Philip-
pine Hosiery
Export Ass'n.
Hat link
May 10,
Felt Hats
Noil &
Import
Japan Felt-hat
1938
Hat bodies
other
privilege
Raw Material
Waste
Export Ob-
Importers' Con-
wool
ligation
trol Ass'n.
Individual
Japan Felt-Hat
link
Export Ass'n.
Value link
Japanese
June 1,
Japanese
Manila
Export
Japanese Paper
paper link
1938
paper
hemp
obligation
Export Promo-
Individual
tion Ass'n.
link
Quantity link
16 p41 p130 bu

=== Page 557 === (confidence 1.00)
-127-
Commodities
Date
linked
Types of
Associations
Designation
enforced
Exports
Imports
System
concerned
Cotton link
July 1,
Cotton Goods
Raw cot-
Import
Japan Cotton
1938
ton
privilege
Spinners' Ass'n.
Export
Federation of
obligation
Japan Cotton-
Individual
goods Export
link
Associations
Quantity
link
Rayon link
August 1, Rayon
Rayon
Import
Japan Rayon Ass'n.
1938
yarn &
pulp
privilege
Federation of
textiles
Export ob-
Japan
ligation
Rayon-goods Ex-
Individual
port Ass'n.
link (yarns)
Group link Federation of
(textiles)
Japan Export
Quantity
Rayon Dealers'
link
Associations.
6) Enforced in February 1936
7) Spices are linked with a value system
18 041 p131 bu

=== Page 558 === (confidence 1.00)
APPENDIX XXV
THE NATIONAL POIICY COMPANIES OF JAPAN - 1943
041
P132
Authorized
Capital
Capitali-
Paid-up
bu
Date of
zation
(in thous-
Establishment
(in thous-
and yen)
and yen)
Karafuto Development Company
6-1938
50,000
25,000
Teito High Speed Transit Eidan
7-1941
60,000
25,000
Nippon Publication Distribution Co.
5-1941
10,000
5,000
Nippon Cinema Materials Control Co.
3-1943
5,000
500
Oriental Development Co.
12-1908
100,000
75,000
Formosa Development Co.
6-1936
60,000
48,750
Yokohama Specie Bank
2-1886
100,000
100,000
Bank of Japan
10-1882
100,000
45,000
Nippon Hypothetic Bank
6-1897
141,920
117,795
Okayama Ken Agriculture & Industrial Bank
12-1897
3,000
3,000
Aichi Ken Agriculture & Industrial Bank
3-1898
6,000
4,500
8
Kanagawa Agrioulture & Industrial Bank
3-1898
4,000
4,000
Ibaraki Agriculture & Industrial Bauk
4-1898
3,000
3,000
1
Fukushima Agriculture & Industrial Bank
6-1898
4,000
4,000
Hokkaido Colonization Bank
2-1900
20,885
12,770
Nippon Industrial Bank
3-1902
200,000
87,500
People's Gold Depository
7-1938
10,000
9,690
Wartime Financial Gold Depository
4-1942
300,000
150,000
Nippon Securities Exchange
6-1943
200,000
200,000
Pension Gold Depository
6-1938
30,000
30,000
Industrial Aseocietion Central Gold Depository
12-1927
35,700
35,700
Nippon Cotton Fishing Net Mfg.
9-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Manila Hemp Net Co.
12-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Oil Fertilizers
5-1940
3,000
3,000
Farm Machinery Distribution Co.
5-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Throwing Mfg. Sale
5-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Straw Products Distribution
7-1940
3,000
3,000
Nippon Rubber for Farm Equipment Dist.
9-1940
500
300
Agricultural Insecticide
10-1940
300
150
Nippon Manila Hemp Net Mfg.
11-1940
500
500

=== Page 559 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorised
Capital
Capitali-
Paid-up
Date of
zation (in
(In thous-
Estab-
thousand
and yen)
lishment
yen)
Teikaku Oil Control
9-1942
32,185
15,735
Fodder Distribution
4-1938
8,450
5,575
Toa Tea Mfg.
7-1932
1,200
300
Dai Nippon Phosphorus Ores
6-1939
3,000
1,500
Organic Fertiliser
12-1939
30,000
1,500
Nippon Raw Hemp
6,1940
5,000
5,000
Nippon Export of Farm Products
7-1940
10,000
5,000
Nippon Fertilizer
7-1940
50,000
13,250
Nippon Starch
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Chosen Livestock Dist.
11-1940
1,000
500
Fodder Mfg.
4-1941
5,000
5,000
129
Nippon Seeds
5-1941
150
75
Farmland Development Eidan
5-1941
30,000
15,000
Nippon Sweet Potatoes & Potatoes
8-1941
10,000
5,000
Nippon Raw Hide
11-1941
10,500
5,000
Nippon Rabbit
11-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Raised Fur
10-1939
150
75
Dai Nippon Fur Control
9-1940
71
71
Nippon Charcoal for Gas
5-1941
10,000
10,000
Nippon Lumber
8-1941
50,000
25,000
Nippon Special Forest Products Control
4-1942
1,500
1,500
Marine (products) Skin Control
10-1939
1,000
500
Nippon Vegetable Gelatine Control
9-1940
2,000
1,000
16
Kokusan Fuel Equipment
12-1940
700
350
8-1942
1,000
500
041
Nippon Godo Pearl
11-1942
1,500
1,500
Nippon Marine Products
7133
Teikoku Marine Products Control
12-1942
50,000
50,000
6-1940
5,000
2,500
Nippon Silk-Yarn By-Products Control
bu
Nippon Silk-Yarn Control
5-1941
80,000
40,000
2-1942
3,000
3,000
Development Co. for Silk-Yarn Use

=== Page 560 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
18
Authorized
Capital
041
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(In thous-
P134
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen).
bu
7-1943
100,000
50,000
Nippon Silk-Yarn Mfg.
1-1928
2,700
2,440
Kyoto Green Producers
8-1933
2,000
1,000
Beer Joint-Sales
7-1935
1,000
1,000
Canned Crab Kyowakai Joint-Sales
6-1939
150
150
Canned Crab Sales
8-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Marine Products Dist.
6-1940
2,000
500
Nippon Sugar Distribution
6-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Salmon & Trout Distribution
8-1941
6,000
6,000
Nippon Meat Distribution
10-1941
198
198
Kanto Fowl
10-1941
198
198
Kyokan Fowl
11-1941
100
50
Fukuoka Ken Fowl
11-1941
1,000
1,000
Zenkoku Soy Sauce Control
11-1941
1,500
1,500
Nippon Amino Acid Control
11-1941
1,00ρ
1,000
130
Zenkoku Bean Paste
3-1942
6,000
3,000
Nippon Canned Food Control
Central Food Public Corporation (Eidan)
9-1942
100,000
60,898
11-1936
16,000
9,983
Shoko Kumiai Central Gold Depository
7-1941
100,000
97,520
Kokumin Kosei Gold Depository
12-1942
200,000
78,450
Industrial Establishment Public Corp. (Eidan)
1-1934
800,000
671,000
Nippon Iron Mfg.
12-1937
1,000
1,000
Nippon Precious Metals
9-1938
50,000
40,000
Nippon Gold Production Promotion
8-1939
90,000
27,000
Teikoku Mine Development
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Steel & Iron Raw Materiale Control
9-1940
25,000
12,500
Teikoku Light Metal Control
9-1940
10,000
5,000
Nippon Metal Dist.
4-1941
5,000
5,000
Teikoku Manganese Chrome
6-1941
1,000
1,000
Nippon Wire Rod Products Control
7-1941
3,000
1,500
Nippon Cast-Iron Tube Control
8-1941
500
500
Nippon Mine-Ball Control
9-1941
500
250
Nippon Ore Dressing Reagent

=== Page 561 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(In thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Nippon Hoops Control
10-1941
500
500
Iran & Steel Sales Control
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Shavel Control
12-1941
500
500
Nippon Black-Lead Crucible
1-1942
500
500
Nippon Band Steel Control
1-1942
500
500
Black Sheet Control
2-1942
100
100
Nippon Wire Tube Control
3-1942
500
500
Nippon Empty Can Control
3-1942
500
500
Nippon Light Metal Control
4-1942
2,000
2,000
Wire Distribution
4-1942
2,000
2,000
Metal Distribution
5-1942
2,000
2,000
Nippon Ships Hardware Equipment Control
5-1942
1,000
500
Nippon Flourite Control
5-1942
3,00b
1,500
Special Steel Sale
6-1942
1,000
1,000
Metal Collection Control
7-1942
500
500
33
6-1914
3,000
2,500
Nippon Automobile
1
Callons Oil Glycerine Control
3-1926
800
800
Nippon Leather & Hide Control
3-1939
2,000
2,000
Nippon Chikatabi Joint Sales
9-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Automobile Tire Control
11-1939
1,000
250
Nippon Kaizen Control
12-1939
100
100
Nippon Tawmin Industry
12-1939
1,700
1,700
Nippon Rubber Toy and Sport Goods for Export Control
1-1940
200
100
Nippon Metal and Glass from Waste Bulbs
2-1940
195
195
Cement Joint Sales
3-1940
5,000
1,250
10 041 p135
Rubber Goods for Marine Ind. Joint-Sales
8-1940
150
150
Dai Nippon Asbestos
8-1940
1,000
1,000
Nippon Rubber Band Control
10-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Joint-Sales for Authorized Rubber Sporting Goods
10-1940
100
50
Nippon Industrial Rubber Goods Control
12-1940
500
250
bu
Nippon Rubber Hose Control
12-1940
1,000
750
12-1940
150
75
Paints Control

=== Page 562 === (confidence 0.99)
18
Appendix XXV - continued
041
Authorized
Capital
P136 bu
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
12-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Waste Glass Control
12-1940
2,000
500
Export Rubber Promotion
1-1941
10,000
10,000
Nippon Mixed Dye Stuff Sale
2-1941
1,000
250
Carbide Joint Sale
3-1941
1,000
750
Toa Lacquer Control
3-1941
500
250
Nippon Repossessed Tire Sale Control
4-1941
100
100
Koa Lacquer Ltd. Co.
4-1941
1,500
1,500
Nippon Tannin Trading Co.
4-1941
190
90
Rubber Control for Medical Use
5-1941
2,500
1,250
Nippon Gunpowder Control
7-1941
190
475
Nippon Shimbo Leather Control
8-1941
3,000
3,000
Nippon Industrial Leather Products Control
9-1941
150
150
Nippon Cyanide Soda Sales
10-1941
500
250
Nippon Gall Nuts Control
Nippon Industrial Leather Gloves Control
10-1941
150
150
1
10-1941
190
47.5
32
Chuo Oil Cloth
10-1941
180
180
Tobu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
100
100
Chubu Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
180
Kansai Carbide Dist.
10-1941
180
125
Seibu Carbide Dist.
11-1941
150
150
Toyo Licquor Industry
11-1941
500
250
Nippon Celluloid Control
11-1941
200
100
Nippon Waste Qelluloid Control
11-1941
1,000
500
Nippon Shoes Dist. Control
12-1941
150
75
Toa Refined Lacquer for Rolling Stock
12-1941
500
500
Raw Materials for Glue Control
12-1941
190
190
Nippon Reproduced Leather Products
12-1941
1,000
500
Nippon Mixed Resin Control
2-1942
3,000
3,000
Tar Products Distribution Control
2-1942
195
195
Nippon Tar Medium Dist.
3-1942
2,000
2,000
Soda for Industrial Chemicals
4-1942
190
190
Nippon Photo Material Control
5-1942
198
99
Nippon Steatite Dist. Control
5-1942
190
190
Shinko China Dist. Control
5-1942
2,000
2,000
Nippon Light Metal Equipment Control

=== Page 563 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Nippon Organic kubber Chemicals Control
7-1942
190
190
Nippon Pine Root Oil Products Control
8-1942
300
300
Nippon Soap Distribution Control
7-1942
3,000
3,000
Nippon Match Control
9-1942
5,000
3,000
Organic Mixed Goods Dist. Control
12-1942
2,000
1,500
Nippon Sulphuric Acid Dist. Control
1-1943
5,000
3,000
Kanto Cement Sale
1-1943
3,000
1,500
Chukei Cement Sale
1-1943
1,000
500
Chukoku Cement Sale
1-1943
1,600
800
Nippon Potassium Salt
2-1943
300
300
Nippon Photo Sensitive Material Sales
2-1943
2,000
2,000
Tokoku Cement Sale
22-1943
1,000
500
Keamsai Cement Sale
2-1943
3,000
1,500
Kyushu Cement Sale
2-1943
1,000
800
Hokkaide Cement Sale
3-1943
1,000
500
1
Hokuriki Cement Sale
3-1943
700
400
33
Nippon Fire Proof Brick Control
3-1943
3,000
3,000
1
Nippon Reagent Control
4-1943
1,000
500
Paints Control
4-1943
2,000
2,000
Nippon Temper Machine Tools
10-1941
180
45
Hyojun Electrical Machinery Joint-Sale
7-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Automobile Dist.
7-1942
10,000
10,000
Iron Tube
7-1942
500
250
Nippon Towel Mfg. Control
9-1938
2,000
1,550
6-1939
6,500
6,500
Meriyasu Mfg. Control
Nippon Cotton Fishing Nets Mfg.
9-1939
2,000
2,000
16
041 p137
Zenkoku Medical Gauze Mfg. Control
9--1939
500
500
Nippon Cotton Sufu Cloth Control
10-1939
20,000
12,500
Nippon Waste Cloth Control
10-1939
120
120
Nippon Waste Fiber Dist. Control
10-1939
2,000
2,000
bu
Nippon Special Artificial Silk Yarn Control
4-1939
500
500

=== Page 564 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
16
Authorized
Capital
041
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
P138
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
bu
Nippon Throwing Yarn Mfg. Sales
12-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Manila Hemp Net
12-1939
3,000
3,000
Nippon Special Cotton Sufu Cloth
1-1940
1,000
750
Chuo Mfg. Dis. Control for Work Clothes & Uniforms
4-1940
2,000
2,000
Nippon Used Cotton Control
4-1940
500
250
Nippon Used Fibre Control
5-1940
3,000
1,500
Nippon Sewing Thread Mfg. Dist.
5-1940
1,500
1,500
Nippon Spinning Waste Cloth
6-1940
150
150
Nippon Raw Hemp
6-1940
5,000
5,000
Nippon Special Cloth for Rayon
7-1940
500
500
Nippon Cocoon Products
8-1940
10,000
2,000
Zenkoku Raw Material for Japanese Paper Control
9-1940
190
190
Nippon Yara Spinning Yarn Controi
10-1940
2,000
2,000
Nippon Tabi Mfg. Control
10-1940
3,000
3,000
Nippon Special Cotton Yarn Cloth Control
10-1940
1,500
1,500
134
Nippon Used Manila Hemp Nets Mfg.
11-1940
500
500
Nippon Special Cloth Control
12-1940
1,000
500
Western Paper Joint-Sales
12-1940
180
180
Nippon Publication Div.
12-1940
1,000
500
Nippon Hemp Fibre
5-1941
30,000
3,000
Nippon Japanese Paper Mfg. Control
8-1941
1,250
1,250
Nippon Sheet Paper Control
10-1941
1,000
500
Chuo Dis. Control for Mariyasu products
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Nippon Wool Control
12-1941
5,000
5,000
Chuo Mfg. Dist. Control for Towels
1-1942
1,000
1,000
Chuo Mfg. Dist. Control for Japanese Clothings
1-1942
1,500
1,500
Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control for Cotton Fibre Goods
1-1942
5,000
5,000
Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control for Ready Made Cloths
1-1942
5,000
5,000
Nippon Silk & Rayon Fibre Dist. Control
1-1942
20,000
20,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Cotton Cloth
1-1942
10,000
10,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Woolen Thread
1-1942
3,000
3,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Fabi
1-1942
2,000
2,000

=== Page 565 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand, yen)
and yen)
2-1942
2,300
2,300
Nippon Silk Sewing Thread Mfg. & Dist. Control
2-1942
1,000
1,000
Chuo Dist. Control for Woolen Blankets
2-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Sail Cloth
3-1942
30,000
30,000
Nippon Cotton Sufu Cloth Dist.
3-1942
10,000
10,000
Tokyo To Fibre Products Dist. Control
5-1942
1,000
1,000
Nippon Silk & Cotton Mfg. & Sales
7-1942
5,000
2,500
Nippon By-Products of Cocoon Yarn Control
10-1942
40,000
40,000
Nippon Silk-Rayon Cloth Mfg.
5,000
5,000
Nippon Hats, Chuo Mfg. & Dist. Control
5-1938
150
150
Toa Grains Import Control
9-1939
1,000
1,000
Nippon Export Automobile Sale
9-1940
10,000
10,000
Nippon Export Agricultural Products
9-1940
150
150
Celluloid Export Production
11-1915
10,000
2,500
Fibre Products Export Promotion
12-1940
2,500
2,500
Toa Lumber Trade
135
12-1940
2,000
500
Glass Products Export Promotion
12-1940
2,000
500
Rubber Products Export Promotion
12-1940
150
150
Toa Raw Material for Plant Oil Import
12-1940
300
300
Toa Scrap Iron Import
12-1940
1,000
500
Toa Pig Bristle Import
1-1941
25,000
6,250
Nippon Trade Promotion
1-1941
1,000
250
Toa By-Products of Cocoon Yarn Import
1-1941
200
200
Nippon Raw Material for Glue Import Control
3-1941
5,000
5,000
Silk & Rayon Export Promotion
4-1941
3,000
750
China Export Promotion
7-1941
5,000
1,250
Nippon Machinery Export Promotion
7-1941
2,500
2,500
16
Nippon Raw Cotton Import Control
1-1942
195
195
041
Nippon Leather Products Export Promotion
1-1942
3,000
1,500
Chemical Products Export Promotion
0139
6-1943
300,000
213,955
Koeki Eidan
6-1926
20,000
20,000
Kita Karafuto Petroleum
bu
8-1926
10,000
10,000
Kit Karafuta Mining
12-1934
12,000
12,000
Showa Finished Products of Agriculture

=== Page 566 === (confidence 1.00)
Appendix XXV - continued
16 041 P140 bu
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Alcohol Transportati
2-1938
5,000
3,980
Toa Alcohol Development
3-1938
8,000
8,000
7-1938
200,000
120,000
Teikmku Fuel Development
2-1939
5,000
1,250
Teikaku Ceke
4-1940
20,000
10,000
Petroleum Dist. Control
5-1940
7,180
6,930
Nippon Fuel Burner
6-1940
50,000
25,000
Nippon Coal
9-1940
1,000
500
Hokkaido Coal Sale
9-1940
1,000
250
Joban Coal
9-1940
1,000
500
Yamaguchi Coal
10-1940
1,000
250
Nishi Kyushu Coal
10-1940
6,000
6,000
Alcohol Dist.
11-1940
1,000
250
Karafuto Coal
4-1941
10,410
10,410
136
Kyodo Enterprise
9-1941
260,000
260,000
Teikoku Petroleum
Between
11-1941 &
4,500 &
4,500
&
Each Do Fu & Ken Petroleum Distribution
1-1942
160
90
Each Do Pu & Ken Coal Distribution
Between
3-1942 &
9,000 &
9,000
&
6-1942
120
120
11-1942
5,000
5,000
Nippon Postal Communication
3-1938
85,800
63,556
Kokusai Electric Communication
10-1942
10,000
5,000
Wireless Telegraph &. Telephone of Ships
4-1937
20,000
10,000
Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Works
4-1939
1,541,000
1,466,000
Nippon Electric Power Generation & Transmission
4-1942
65,000
65,000
Hokkaido Power Distribution
4-1942
164,700
161,295
Tokoku Power Distribution
4-1942
805,000
805,000
Kanto Power Distribution
4-1942
200,000
109,58%
Chubu Power Distribution
4-1942
138,000
119,486
Hokuriku Power Distribution
4-1942
560,000
507,253
Kansai Power Distribution
4-1942
58,500
58,500
Shikoku Power Distribution
4-1942
170,000
170,000
Chukoku Power Distribution
4-1942
230,000
230,000
Kyushu Power Distribution
8-1942
100,000
86,500
Toa Marine Transport

=== Page 567 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Shooi Coal
7-1935
500
500
Fushiki Harbour Transport
2-1941
850
850
Rumoi Harbor Transport
6-1941
430
430
Hokkaido Coal Transport
7-1941
10,000
8,000
Hiroshima Harbour Transport
3-1942
1,000
500
Onoda Harbour Transports
3-1942
150
375
Karatsu Harbor Transport
3-1942
100
25
Railway Department Coal Transport
3-1942
1,000
1,000
Hakodate Sea & Land Works
4-1942
1,000
1,000
Omi Harbour Transport
4-1942
190
190
Ube Harbour Transport
5-1942
195
48
6-1942
1,750
1,750
Niigata Harbour Transport
7-1942
190
190
araihama Harbour Transport
7-1942
195
195
Sakada Harbour Transport
Nabetsu Harbour Transport
7-1942
650
650
7-1942
1,000
500
137
Hakata Harbour Transport
7-1942
5,000
2,500
Notor Sailing Ship Transport Control
8-1942
550
550
Shiokama Harbour Transport
8-1942
950
950
Haahimohe Harbour Transport
8-1942
195
195
Sakai Harbour Transport
9-1942
720
720
Akita Harbour Transport
11-1942
180
180
Kimugaura Harbour Transport
12-1942
180
180
Atern Harbour Raft Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Nagoya Harbour Transport
12-1942
1,000
1,000
Yokkaichi Harbour Transport
12-1942
3,000
3,000
Kobe Ship Porterage
12-1942
4,05)
4,050
16
Osaka Ship Porterage
12-1942
30,00)
30,000
041 p141 bu
Yokohama Harbour Transport
12-1942
30,000
30,000
Tokyo Harbor Transport
12-1942
1,300
1,800
Osaka Raft
12-1942
5,000
5,000
Hirohata Harbour Transport
12-1942
25,000
25,000
Kammon Harbour Transport
12-1942
30,000
30,000
Kobe Harbour Transport

=== Page 568 === (confidence 0.99)
Appendix XXV - continued
11
Authorized
Capital
041 P142
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
bu
Kausaki Ship Porterage
12-1942
2,500
2,500
Wakamatsu Harbour Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Yokohama Ship Porterage
12-1942
3,000
3,000
12-1942
3,500
3,500
Tokyo Ship Porterage
1-1943
4,500
4,500
Atarn Harbour Transport Norks
Hakodate Harbour Transport
1-1943
3,500
3,500
1-1943
1,500
1,500
Tokyo Harbour Raft
3-1943
1,500
1,500
Nagoya Ship Porterage
Nittetsu Hanishi Harbour Transport
3-1943
1,000
1,000
4-1943
10,000
10,000
Kure Harbour Transport
5-1942
800
800
Otoru Coal Harbour Transport
6-1943
3,780
3,780
Shimizu Harbour Transport
6-1943
150
150
Oita Harbour Transport
7-1943
2,000
2,000
Kushiro Harbour Transport
1
Kushiro Harbour Coal Transport
7-1943
1,800
1,800
3
8
7-1943
2,500
2,500
Nagasaki Harbour Transport
7-1943
1,150
1,150
Muroran Coal Harbour Transport
7-1943
6,000
6,000
Muroran Harbour Transport
8-1943
1.400
1,400
Tsururuga Sea & Land Transport
8-1943
800
800
Nagoya Raft Works
8-1939
100,000
62,376
Dai Nippon Air Transportation
9-1937
100,420
100,420
Nippon Transportation
7-1941
60,000
25,000
Teito High Speed Transportation
12-1939
195
98
Nippon Controlled Sport Goods Dis.
9-1939
500
500
Tenkoku Medic 1 Gauze Mfg. Control
1-1940
500
500
Tenkoku Absorbent Cotton Mfg. Control
4-1940
500
500
Nippon Herbs Control
5-1940
195
195
Zenkoku Medical Material Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Tobu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Chubu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1940
570
570
Seibu Medical Implements Control Wholesale
7-1941
3,000
1,500
Nippon Medical Implements Production Control

=== Page 569 === (confidence 0.97)
Appendix XXV - continued
Authorized
Capital
Date of
Capitaliza-
Paid-up
Estab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand yen)
and yen)
Osaka Harbour Transport
12-1942
65,000
65,000
Kammon Ship Porterage
12-1942
2,500
2,500
Osaka Harbour Coal Transport
12-1942
15,000
15,000
Osaka River Transport
12-1942
10,000
10,000
Amagasaki Harbour Transport
12-1942
6,700
6,700
Sakai Harbour Transport
12-1942
500
500
Fushimi Harbour Transport
12-1942
1,000
1,000
Nittesu Yawata Harbour Transport
12-1942
6,500
6,500
13
6
I
10 041 p143 bu

=== Page 570 === (confidence 0.98)
Appendix XXV - continued
10
041.P144
Authorised
Capital
Date of
Capitalisa-
Paid-up
Bstab-
tion (in
(in thous-
lishment
thousand ren)
and yen)
Nippon Medical Implements Distribution Control
7-1941
5,000
3,750
Nippon Dental Supply Control
1-1942
300
300
Nippon Medical Care Public Corp.
6-1942
100,000
148,915
Zenkoku Sanitary Cotton Wholesale
11-1942
500
500
Zenkoku Medical Goods Control
12-1942
2,500
1,500
Housing Public Corp. (Eidan)
5-1941
100,000
56,724
SOURCE: Kigyo Toksi Soran (1943) pp. 35-47.
140
