894.20210 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In America. Pan-America Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaga (File 1502)
ID: 894.20210-1502   Pages: 254   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20210-military-affairs-army-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.92)
DEPARTMENT OF
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
JAN 1945
RP
DIRECTOR
(GCUDN
DIVIsION Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
π
RESEARCH AND PUBLICATION
Inited Stales Department of Justice
Mashington, D.C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
RECEIVED
OF FOREIGH ACTIVITY 
FILE NUMBER 110-3
JA 
894.2021
hile
To: Mr. Frederick B. Ayon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
Attention:
Mr. E. Wilder Spaulding
Chief, Division of Research and Publication
From: John Edgar Hoover - Director, Feueral Bureau of Investigation
Subject: Japanese Fublications
445
894.20210
With reference to your letter of December 23, 1944, RP 894.
20210/11-2444, I vish to advise that steps have already been taken to
procure Japanese publications in Portuguese Nos. 22, 26, 30 and 32.
These publications will be promptly made available to you
upon their receipt in Washington.
AN 3 1 1945
DOR - MB Unit
F
45
Jan 23, 1970
FB1 #2
5752m
1217173

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.95)
FC105
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
AMERICAN REPUBLIC RIFFAIRS
Sigation
π
RE(VA
StatesDenartment ofJustice
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIA
OF JAPANESE
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
AIRS
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NO. 04-21655-9
DIVISION
Date: January 19, 1945
JAN
894.10
To: Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
Subject: Comite Japones de Ayuda Mutua, also known as, Comite Japones de
Auxilio Mutuo, "Kyoeikai" - Mexico
nase
Reference is maue to my letter dated November 6, 1943.
As of possible interest to you, there is attached hereto a memorandum
furmished the Bureau by a confidential, reliable source setting forth back-
ground iniormation on the above-captioned Japanese organization. This organi-
zation functions ostensibly in the capacity of a mutual aid society assisting
destitute Japanese vho have been removed from various locations in the Mexican
Republic anu resettled in less strategic areas. heplacing H. Kato, who returned
to Japan, is Luis Tadasu Tsuji as Director. The Secretary is Guillermo S.
akita. Dr. Kiso Tsuru also exercises inrluence in airecting the committee's
affairs. Ho.lever, his efforts to unfreeze certain private Japanese funds in
Mexico and to obtain control of Japanese Government funds there have not
apparently been successful. The committee presently operates a communal
Farm in the State of Morelos, Mexico. A Sub-Comite Japones de Ayuda Mutua
is reportedly existing in Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.
These data have been made availabie to the american Embassy and to
the Military and Naval Attaches in Mexico, D. F.
Enclosure
h
cc - Director of laval Intelligence
Navy Department, Washington, D. C.
2
J
0
2
cc - Assistunt Chiei of Staff
G-2, har Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier General Carter W. Clarke
FORYICTORY
BUY
Jan. 22, 1976 - F81 #2
srom
1217178

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.98)
Decemt ar 7, 1944
RE: COMITE JAFONES DE AYUDA MUTUA, a1BO
knOWn aB COMITE JAPUNES DE AÚXILIO MUTUO.
"KYOEIKAI"
LEXICO. D. F.
The Comite Japones de Ayuda Mutua ostensibly functions
in the capacity of a mutual aid society sustaining destitute
Japanese who have been removed from various locations in
the Mexican Republic and resettled in less strategic areas,
in connection with the Republic's national defense program.
The Committee maintains offices at Calle San Antonio
Abad #327, Mexico, D. F., and is presently under the director-
ship of LUIS TADASU TsUJI, who replaced H. KATO upon his return
to Japan. The secretary is listed in the records of La Junta
Inter-secretarial Relativa a Bienes y Propiedades del Enemigo,
as being GUILLERLO . LAkITA, residence address Calle de
L.octezuma #235, Mexico, D. F., according to confidential
informant Source , usially reliable.
According to the same source Dr. KISO TSURU, well
known leader amon: the Lexican-Japanese colony, is an active
personality in Committee affairs, having assumed directorship
of the Committee temporarily during TSUJI'3 absenc and is
one of the dominatin: figures in Committee activitios. It has
also been reported tat ∴DOLFO A. YOHIOKA has functianed
in the capacity of Committee ecretary in the past.
Source B, reliable, indicates that the following
firms and nationals listed on the U. S. Proclaimed List have
also received mail at the San Antonio Abad address:
EL RIKKO, J. de R.L., G. MIYASAKA Y CIA., KUNIHEI
VEJI, JIRO IWAMOTO:
∴s indicative of the Committee's past plans and
projects, a portion of a document in Japanese dated November 19,
1942, which was circulated among the Japanese colony in Mexico
is set forth below. The details were furnished by Source C,
reliable, and had to do with the establishment of a communal farm.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
1. KYOIKAI would be responsible for leasing the
farmse
2.
Twenty-five families of colonizers would be
necessary for each farm.
3.
The selection and gathering of colonizers
would be carried out by the msin office
at Mexico City and the branch office,
Guadalajara, although the colonizers would
be principally from the area of the branch
office.
4.
The person in charge would be elected from
among the colonizers subject to approval of
the branch office.
5.
The details of the farming plan would be
decided in meetings under the auspices of
the person in charge.
6. Capital for carrying out the plan would be the
responsibility of the colonizers. Urgently
needed capital though could be obtained in
the amount of 10,000 pesos for a six month's
period through the KYOEIKAI. However, this
capital should be used as reserve capital
and the applicants should be prepared te defray
the expenses of colonizing and six months
livelihood.
7.
The capitalization plan of the farm wes to
be 25,000 pesos. It was thought that this plan
of organization must be a self-governing coopera-
tive plan of colonizers with all the colonizers
sharing responsibilities, pooling their capital
and working cooperatively.
8. Conditions of joining were to be:
The colonizers should be energetic people
with experience in agriculture.
-2-

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.96)
b. The colonizers must be able to defray
moving expenses and six months living
Ten thousand pesos of the capital
come from the braneh offiee, hat
colonizers should decide at a me
25,000 pesos)
d.
There would be no housing accommodations
until February, 1943.
Other details for deciding on a conorete plan
would be decided at a meeting.
f. It would be best for the main office negotiating
committee to arrange with the landlord for
necessary dwellings and farm equipment.
The document on which the details of the plan stated
above were set forth included a plain form on which the emmmittee
requested the description of the family's circumstanees of
careful in their actions and movements.
The translation of the document also revealed that
two committees were formed apparently at the date of
document in Guadalajara under the auspices of the Gemits
Japones de Ayuda Mutua, one for setting up the Japana
for setting up Japanese in other occupations than fare
The committee on occupations other than 
ADACHI, FUJI: NISHIJIMA, ISÃO, Colone 764-6, Guade
TANADA (TANATA), JIMZO; JOSE MARIA MNRCADD, GUMA1
The committee on farmi
folloWe: KOBAYASHI, UMNKICHL:
S. Andres, Guadalajara, Jaliaao;
Guadalajara, Jalisco; MUJIMURA,

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.98)
Tala, Jalisco: ASHIDA, TSUNEJIRO, Colonia Sur 345, Guadalajara;
OmmMOTO, UAISUKB. Cbregon 1574. Guadalajara: WÁDA, SHIRO,
Hacienda Castro urdiales, Taia, Jalisco.
According to the same source the cooperating farm
known as Hacienda Castro Urdiales has since been established
at Tula, Jalisco.
According to contacts available to Source A, usually
reliable, the files of La Junta Inter-Secretarial Relativa a
Pienes y Propiedades del Enemigo, an agency of the Secretaria
de Hacienda, a petition was presented to the last named agency
by Dr. KISO TSURU in the name of the subject committee in
June, 1942, soliciting permission for the acquisition or
rental of agricultural properties in the State of Morelos,
Mexico, to be under the administration of the mentioned committee
for the purpose of establishing a communal Japanese agricultural
colony. It was indicated that the committee intended to
purchase or rent some 2,000 hectareas of terrain known as
Hacienda de TEMISCO situated near Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.
This agricultural committee is the only one of w ich the
Governmental Entity mentioned as recorded and has since been
established having been occupied at one time by some 80
families.
Further information obtained from La Junta indicates
that the purchase was handled ultimately and a portion of the
money supplied by LUIS TADASU TSUJI, ROKURO TAGO, TEIJI
SEKIGUEHI and MATSUTARO KADIYAMA, the money having been also
furnished in part by the Japanese, MATZUMOTO, who is known to
be the possessor in the Federal District of several greenhouses
and to be in charge of the maintenance of the gardens on
the properties of General MAXIMINO AVILA CAMACHO.
According to the plan announced to the Junta Inter-
Secretarial, the proceeds obtained from the management of
the communal property are to be devoted to the sustaining of
the families maintained there and any overage was to be supplied
to the Comite Japones De Ayuda Mutua for the maintenance of
its other activities.
- 4 -

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
It was further indicated by the above-mentioned
purchasers that upon the termination of the war aud the
establishment of the peace the property would be exp loited
for their private property, and that they could be considered
the personal owners thereof.
The recorda of the Junta indicate also that the
Committee has made other solicitations requesting permission
to ostablish additional agricultural communities, but that
such establishment has not been carried out, probably due to
the lack of funds, although the Junta would be disposed to
concede the necessary permission in the event the committee
indicates its intention to carry out the projected plan.
Varying reports have been received concerning the
source of the Committee's funds.
Contacts available to Source D, usually reliable,
at La Junta indicate that certain Japanese subjects were
drawing out certain of the resources attached to their
businesses prior to the intervention of those businesses by
the Mexican Government, in spite of the fact that the books
as well as the bank accounts maintained by the commercial
houses transferred were reviewed by agents of Le Junta, they
were never successful in determining to where the funds were
channeled. The opinicn was privately expressed by contacts
at La Junta that at least part of the funds had probably
reverted to the subject committee, the opinion being based on
certain investigation conducted by the Junta.
Among the intervened firms to which reference
was had with respect to the charge that certain of their
funds had been hidden prior to intervention were the
following: E1 Nuevo Japon, Honichi Isaburo, 20 de Noviembre
66; JIRO IWAMOTO, Isabel la Catolica 85; TURU MENIAG, oWner
of a mine with offices at the address last cited.
With further relation to the sources of the
Committees funds, the following information is quoted from
Source B, reliable, concerning certain observations made by
the Portuguese Charge d'Affaires in Mexico, who is presently
handling Japanese affairs here.
-5

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.98)
According to this information furnished in
Larch, ly43, lo0,u0u pesos in funds of the Japanese omed
La Guna Uil Company, which was formerly directed by Dr.
KIo TsUlU, may be used to assist interned Japanese subjeets
in Mexico. Dr. TsURU declared his intention to use the sum
to purchase certain agricultural property to be developed
by Japanese citizens and their families. It was TSURU'S
proposal that not only would those able to work be aided.
but that the old and infirn would also be taken care of
as well. r. T JiU stated at that time that he had obtained
permission from Lexican off cials to permit the Japanese to
enzage in agricultural pursuita.
According to TUku, as noteu by the Portuguese
Charge d'affaires, the 1,000,u00 pesoa mentioned above were to
constitute only the first installment, it being anticipated
that when the 1,000,000 pesos in addition to the sum held by
the La Guna il Company would be required which was to be
raised by the collection of the sum of Soo,ooo pesos from
various members of the Japanese colony and by loan of another
5oo,ooo pesos from funds belonging to the former Japanese
Legation in Lexico, which funds are now in the hands of the
Portuguese Charge d'Affaires.
It was anticipated that the whole enterprise would
be eventually self-supporting, providing not only for
Japanese in Mexico but also without being any expense to the
Mexican Government for their maintenance.
TiE Portuguese Charge d'Affaires observed at the
time of his statement that a total of some 1,300 Japanese
had petitioned the Committee for assistance and that others
who had made no formal application were also in need of help.
It was indicated at this time that the Committee was
assisting some 905 persons with the doubt that its funds
were sufficient to enable its continuance of this aid for
much longer.
Of the 905 Japanese, it was indicated that 241
were working in agricultural pursuits with the approval of
the Mexican authorities. Land being tilled by these Japanese
was described as situated near Moreloe and that some 250,000
pesos had been invented in this agricultural venture.
-6-

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
Upon furnishing the information indi
the Portuguese Charge d'Affaires coneluded by
the souree of his information was Dr. IIso
of the Comito.
In April, 1943, Source F, reliable, reperted that
JOSE DOSE SANTOS SILVA TÁVEIRA, POrTuguese Charge a Affaires,
had stated that the Foreign Ministry had advised it was not
possible to comply with the wishes of the mite.
According to this source, SILVA TAVBIRA observed
that he was prepared to make again a request of the Foreign
Ministry for the use of these funds inasmuch as s had been
informed by Dr. TSURU that the Ministry would be disposed
to reconsider the request upon its being pointed out that
the funds of the Committee were nearly used up, that the
Japanese internees were in a poor financial condition and thas
the money was to be used to further a large scale agricultaral
undertaking. SILVA TAVBIRA stated that he intended to take
no further action in the matter until he had been authorized
by his own government to proceed further.
Further information from Source A furnshed from
La Jurta, confirms the information that the Junte did not
authorize the use of assets belonging to La Guna Oil Compant
for the purpose of sustaining the committee. It was indlest
also that the Junta had no knowledge of the Committee bsing
aided by funds belonging to the Japanese Government in the
possession of the Legation of Portugal.
Information furnished by Source G in May, 1943,
indicated that the subject Committee had plans on foot to
resort to the collecting of funds from the Japanese solony
in Mexico under an organized subscription plan for derations
to aid the internees. It was said that a special group would
be formed to care for these funds which would proceed to
collect the money from Japanese in their respective distriets
either in cash or by voucher. The direetors of the C
had agrsed to sign a receipt in each particular ome
so furnished, the amount collected to be repaid durs
following the end of the war with correaponding ints
which would approrimate that paid on Japrnese natisisi
一7-

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
It was stated that the Comite
TAVZIRA, Portuguese Charge d'Affaires in
the above-stated plan for colleation te the
ment in order that the consent of the latter
be obtained for prosecution of the plan.
Relative to activities at Guadalajara, it was
reported by Source H that there is existant in that city,
the Sub-Comite Japones de Ayuda Mutus, the Seeretary of
which is HRNESTO M. YANOME. The Sub-Comate maintains offices
at Avenida Colon 764, *6, Guadalajara, Jaliaea. Mexico. Tais
source has observed that the Sub-Comite maintalns what he
deseribed as rather large offices frequented in the most part
by Japanese and that committee appears to be in comfortable
financial circumstances.
Although as indicated above, it has previously
been reported that subject committee has set up Macienda
Castro Ürdiales, Tala. Jalisco. Although Source A failed to
find any record that suggest a project was being operated
in the files of La Junta, contacts of the Junta advised that
they were aware of the fact that many Japanese agriculturists
were operating in the State of Jalisco on a share cropper
basis for various land owners in that vicinity.
Relative to the attention which is being afforded
the activities of the Japonese committee by the Mexican
Government, it is noted that Source I, reliable, reports
that all of the activities of the Japanese committee are
under close supervision of inspectors in the Ministry of
Gobernacien and that represantatives of that Ministry attend
the mestings which the committes holds. It is further
indieated that the committee's agricultural activities
ocessiomally receive attention from Mexican authorities and
that TaUGORO SHIBAYAMA, a member of the agricultural
mmtty mear Cuernavaca, who usually comes to Mexico City
imess for the Comite, has complained that "inspectors
Mexican Department of Interior oppress us."
- 8 -

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.96)
B.
RP
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
π
United States Department of Justice
PEPSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
RECEIVED
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
IN REPLY, PLEASE REJER TO
JANJ 11945
FILE NO.
DIVISION OF
Date:
AND
RECORDS
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
894.20210/1
Department of State
Attention: E. Wilder Spaulding
Chief, Division of Research and Publications
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
JAPANESE PUBLICATIONS
In connection with my letter dated January 4 1945, I wish to advise that
Japanese publications in Portuguese #22, #26, #30, and #32 are no longer eveilable;
however, the Bureau has secured the original Japenese texts of these publications
2545
which are being transmitted herewith as follows:
#22 - A Study of Laws for Economy in Time of War.
#26 - Pistory of War.
30 - Album of Sino-Japanese War.
#32 - Rural and Youth Questions.
T
It would be appreciated if you would return these books to the Bureau as
JAN311945
soon as you have made use of them.
FILED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Enclosure
XAN 30 1945
FB1-1-31-45
JSn/hw.
Jan 23, 1974 FB1 H2
DIVISIONF
1217178
RESEARCH AND PUELC. TON
DCR - NE Unit
FORVICTORY
na
BUY
R.
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
January 31, 1945.
FC
CONPIDENTIAL
Attention: Mr. Ralph R. Roach
894.20210/1-2545
The Department of State returns herewith to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation a package containing
the following named publications which were trans-
mitted to the Department under cover of a memorandum
dated January 25, 1945, marked for the attention of
E. Wilder Spaulding, Chief, Division of Research and
Publications:
A Study of Laws for Economy 1n Time of War
History of War
Album of Sino-Japanese War
Rural and Youth Questions
S
The Bureau recuested that these documents be returned
Confidential File
as soon as they had served their purpose.
Enclosures:
894.20210
As atated above.
R.
Jan. 23, 1916- F81 #2
 eapy
By 5rom
12/7/78
Cat.
tho stgad arie
Dist.
Iml.
FC:JDN:OPV

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
LIST OF BOOKS RELATING TO JAPAN
Allen, G. C.
Modern Japan and Its Problems
(1927)
Blakeslee, George H. ...
The Pacific Area
Conflicts of Policy in the Far
East (1934)
Clarke, Joseph I. C. ...
Japan at First Hand: Her Islands,
Their People, the Picturesque,
the Real (1918)
Crocker, W. R. ......
Japanese Population Problem
Fahs, Charles B.
Government in Japan: recent
trends in its scope and operation
(1940)
Holtom, D. C. ..
Modern Japan and Shinto National-
ism (1943)
Latourette, Kenneth .... The Development of Japan (1932)
Lory, Hillis ...........
Japan's Military Masters (1943)
Morin, Relman ........
.Circuit of Conquest (1943)
Quigley, H. S.
Japanese Government and Politics
(1936)
Sansom, G. B.
Japan: A short Cultural History
(1938)
Tolischus, Otto David .. Tokyo Recard (1943)
Wildes, Harry E.
....... Japan in Crisis (1934)
Young, A. Morgan
——————。
Imperial Japan, 1926-1938

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
FC/JTE
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DIRECTOR
Hederal Bureau of Inuestigation
DC/R
π
United States Department of Justice
Mashington,D.C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
JA
894.
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER FC
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
FILE NUMBER
64-20032
20210/2-1545
Date:
February 15, 1945
FEB 1 9 1945
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
PEPARTMENT OF STATE
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
KNS
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
1945
memorandum dated December 27, 19l4, received from a confidential source believed
reliable regarding the activities of subjects involved in the above-entitled matter.
It will be recalled that instant case concerns a large group of Japanese
nationals, who are knowm to be functioning on behalf of the Japanese Government
throughout South America for alleged espionage and commercial purposes.
三
H
This information has been made available to the American Embassy at Riq de
Janeiro, Brazil.
154
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
2-1545
Navy Department
2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Washington, D. C.
Enclosure
Attention: Brigadier General Carter W. Clarke

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
December 27, 1944
Re: RYOKICHI NAGAI;/SUETAKA HAYAO;
Dr. ALBERTO GOES TELLES; ET AL
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Investigation in Rio de Janeiro in this case opened
with the receipt of information from Source A pertaining to
two letters sent through regular channels addressed respective-
1y to Dr. ALBERTO GOES TELLES, Avenida Rio Branco 143, Fourth
Floor, Rio de Janeiro, and Dr. ARY P. DE ANDRADE FIGUEIRA, Rua
Rosario l07, Third Floor, Rio do Janeiro. The first of these,
dated September 4, 1942, bore the return address of FRANCISCo
ORTIZ, Tucuman l687, Suenos Aires, Argentina, and with it was
enclosed a second letter written in Japanese for one NAGAI
which in turn bore . message in code or cipher for one HAYAo.
The FIGUEIRA letter ore no return address nor was it signed.
It also bore an unsigned letter in Japanese for NAGAI which
on translation appered identical in content to that enclosed
in the TELLES letter. Source B has advised that the TELLES
and FIGUEIRA letters were addressed by the samc individual.
The message for HAYAO has not been docoded.
The letter for NAGAI which TELLES was requested to
deliver appeared to concern the affairs of a commercial
company which has since been identificd as the Sociedade
Comercial Nipo-Brasileira, Ltda. (which has also been referred
to in this case as the Japan Brazil Company and tha Nichi-Haku
Co.). The unknown writer of this letter pointed out to NAGAI
that because of Brazil's declaration of war against Germany
and Italy her attitude towerd Japan had stiffened and stated
that under such circumstances "in the future I desire more
than ever to hear from you as to your well being". NAGAI was
instructed among other things by his Buenos Aires principal
to be brief in his letters, to refrain from sending bulky
envelopes, not to use the company seal (probably to be con-
strued as meaning not to use identifying letterheads, et
cetora), and to change addresses (presumably in Buenos Aires)
from time to time. He was queried as to "how it would do to
send communications from here (Buenos Aires) to a lawyer of
the Nichi-Haku Co. by the name of TELLES".
 Subsequent?, information reflected in Sources C,
D, and E, revealed that these suspicious letters probably
originated with somcone connected with the Buenos Aires
Japanese firm, Nambei-Compania de Importacion y Exportacion
Anonima (which has also been rofcrred to as the Nambei Trading
- 1 -
an 23, 197C - FB1 2
12/7/78
By86

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.98)
Company). Weighty evidence had been secured indicating that
individuals connected with this firm were involved in wide-
spread espionage operations, espionage information destined
to Japan being channeled through them in Buenos Aires from
Santiago, Chile.
With reference to the NAGAI letters mentioned above,
it has been noted t.at thc authorship of these letters remains
unknown. In that connection, reforence should be made to a
letter mentioned in Source F which was found in the files of
the Sociedad Commercial Chilona Oriental Limitada, Santiago,
Chile. Dated September 16, 1942 and unsigned, according to
this source, this letter regards matters previously agreed
upon concerning correspondencc between Santiago and Buenos
Aires by MIURA of the Bucnos Aires branch of the South American
Cotton Company and TAKEO OZASA TANAKA, agent of that company in
Santiago. Like the NAGAI letters, this letter among other
instructions carried injunctions to be brief and not to include
the names of sonder and receiver. Whereas the NAGAI letters
merely cautioned NAGAI to change addresses fron time to time,
this letter specifically set forth cover names and alternative
addresses for both the sonder and receiver. Reference to
Source G reveals that MIURa has been identified as SUEKAZU
MIURA, a principal Subjcct in this case in Buenos Aires. The
similarity of tho instructions in the letters mentined suggests
that SUEKAZU MIURA might have written the NAGAI letters. It
is true that the NAGAI letters antedated the letter found in
Chile by some thirteen days. However, the assumption is that
the instructions in the Chilean letter had been worked out
previously by MIURA nd his Chilean collaborator.
Investigciion in Rio de Janeiro roflected in Sources
H and I has identificd NAGAI as RYOKICHI NAGAI, Japanese, and
an employee of the Jupanese firm, Sociedade Comercial Nipo-
Bra sileira, Ltda., formerly engaged in exportation of strategic
materials and now virtually liquidated by tho Brazilian govern-
ment. Dr. ALBERTO GOES TELLES has been identified as a
Brazilian lawyer who in early 1943 succecded Dr. ARY P. DE
ANDRADE FIGUEIRA, another Brazilian lawyer, as agent for the
Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira, Ltda. with his powers and
duties defined by a Power of Attorney executed by this firm on
June 5, 1942. TELLES: daughtcr, LYSETTE, at one time was
omployed by the Japanese Embassy in Rio de Janeiro and later
by the Sociedade Comercial Nip-Brasileira, Ltda. HAYAO has
been identified as SUETAKA HAYAO, formerly Second Secretary of
the Japanese Embassy in Rio de Janeiro and currently the
Japalese representative attached to the Spanish Embassy.
-2-

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.98)
On March 21, 1944; RYOKICHI NAGAI, Rua Hugo
Bezerra 241, Rio de Janeiro, wrote I. KOBAYASHI, J. Evaristo
Uriburu 1263, Buencs Airos, that inasmuch as the firm was now
being liquidated by the Brazilian government, the Power of
Attorney of Dr. ALBERTO GOES TELLES was without effect.
Stating that within about two months he would be without
employment, NAGAI expressed his intention of going into the
interior of the State of São Paulo (Brazil) to work as a
farr.er and advised KOBAY:sHI that he would send him his ad-
dress from there. NAGAI although not mentioning the firm's
name, was obviously referring'to the Sociedads Comercial
Nipo-Brasileira, Ltda. Later, on April 13, 1944, NAGAI again
wrote KOBAYASHI at the same address advising him that the
liquidation should be completed by May 15, 1944. He exp?ained
that not only the firm's property but also the private property
of its owners for which it was agent was included in the
liquidation. As roflected in Source G, I. KOBAYASHI is ISOMA
KOBAYASHI, manager of Nambei, Compania de Importacion y
Exportacion Anonima, J. Evaristo Uriburu 1263, Buenos Aires.
On June 28, 1944, NAGAI wrote H. KI JRA, Evaristo
Uriburu l263, Buenos Aires, acknowledging receipt of a letter
from him tho date of which was not mentioned. NAGAI instruct-
ed him that tho best way for him to send remittances to him
(NAGAI) was through the Argentine Red Cross, KIMURA explaining
to the Red Cross that such remittances were for NAcAI's
maintenance, he being unemployed by reason of the international
situation. KIMURA was instructed to send such money in care
of Dr. ALBERTO GOES TELLES, and NAGAI explained that he had
alroady left his (llaGAI's) name with the Rio ae Janeiro Red
Cross Chapter and had consulted the Fiscalisacão Bancaria e
Commissão Defesa Economica (Brazilian governnent agency in
charge of property of Axis nationals). NAGaI addcc that in
whatever manner KIMURA sent the money, if he sent it in care
of Dr. TELLES, he would receive it. On August 30, 1944,
NAGAI again wrote KIMURA. He advised that a rew liquidator
hed been appointed and that the liquidation should be conpleted
wi in thirty days. He indicated that he had not reard from
KIl A in answer to his letter of June 28, 19l4, and reiterat-
od is instructions about the latter's sending romittances
through the Red Cross. He again expressed his intention of
going to live in the interior of São Paulo. H. KIMURA appears
to  connected with the Numbei, Compania de Importacion y
Exportacion Anonima, Buenos Aires, inasmuch as his address as
used by NAcAI is identical to the address of that firm.
- 3 -

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.97)
Relative to KIMURA's identity, Sourec J reflects
that GEORGE YUKICHI OSAWA, a confessed Japanesc espionage
agont in Cuba, mentioned aving met in January, 1934, in
Washington, D. C., one LOJIS KIMURA, a Japanese, then attach-
ed to the Japanese Embassy there. OSAWA described this
KIMURA as a "man of action" utilized in times of emergency
by the Japanese esp nagc system. Shortly after his meeting
with KIMURA, the lat er hid been sent to the Carribean area
as a crew member of some N.Y.K. Line, OSAWA related he had
mot him again in Havana, Cuba, sometime betwo 1 1935 and 1937,
and stated that KIMURA's last known address had been, he
thought, c/o M. HARA, Messrs. J. E. Turner & Co., Santos,
Brazil. Investigation in the OSAWA case has failed to icentify
or locate this KIMU'.. However, it did evolve that one
TOSHITANO HARA had en agent in Santos for the Japanese KKK
steamship line duri:. 1938. Suisequently ho went to Chile, 
and investigation t re showed ao had been in Chile from May,
1939 to August, 194, ostensibly as an inspector of the K.K.K.
Line, but many circt stances disclosed concerning his life
there were highly su picious. KIMuRA appcars to be a very
common Japanese namo, and the KIMURA reforred to by OSAWA
would apparently be . KIMURA, NAGAI's correspondent being H.
KIMURA. However, it should be noted that OSAWA erroneously
referred to HARA as M. HARA, whereas his correct nome was
apparontly TOSHITANO HARA.
To continue with information reflectcd in NAG''s
cor spondence with his Buenos Aires principals, on Augu t 13,
1944, ho wrote to Nambei & Cia., J. Evaristo Uciburu 12o:,
Buenos Aircs, roporting on the liquidation status of the Rio
de Janciro firm. In recapitulating expenses, he noted that
he had not received since February (1944) the amount he had
customarily rcccived in addition to his salary. (As will
appear, NiGaI received a salary of Cr $1.000,00 or abou: #50.00
United States money per month.)
In a letter of the Nambei Company sent in May, 1944,
to Dr. ALBERTO GOES TELLES, Rio de Janeiro, there was enclos-
ed a copy of the Power of Attorney in favor of Dr. ARY P. DE
ANDRADE FIGUEIRA executcd June 5, 1942, by TATUO OKI, TADASHI
YAMADA, and YO MURAI, former partners of Sociedade Comercial
Nipo-Brasileira. This contract is significant in showing the
closo tic-up betwcen Socicdade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira, Rio
de Janciro, Nambei, Compania de Importacion y Exportacion
Sociedade Anonima, Fuunos Aires, and the Sociodad Conmercial
Chilena Oriental, Limitada, Santiugo, Chile. In general, this
-4 -

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.98)
contract obligates the attorney to act for the Rio de Janeiro
firm and/or its partners and for third parties whom the Rio
de Janeiro firm might be representing. Provision (f) of the
contract obligates him "to respond to all comrunications re-
ceived from "Nambei Compania de Importacion y Exportacion S.A."
of Buenos Aires, ana fror "Sociedad Commercial Chilona Oriental
Limitada" of Santia ?, Crile". By the terms of the contract:
the attorney is obl ed to submit reports concerning the
affairs of the Rio  Janeiro firm to the Nanbei firn in
Buenos Aires.
Relative to NAGAI's salary and duties, provision
(3a) of this contract specifies certain expenditures which
the attorney is aut rized to make nonthly, the total not to
exceed Cr $3.500,00 (about $175.00 U.S.). Anong items
enumerated are Cr #1.500, 00"for the attorney 1er nonth and a
salary of Cr $1.000,00 for Nu:GiI. An item of Cr $200,00 per
nonth (about $10.00 U.S.) was authorized for expenses of
communication" in charge of K/OKICHI NAGAI.
On August 9, 1944, Dr. AIBERTO GOES TELLES, in con-
versation with Sources K and L, explained the circumstances
under which he bccame the agent-attorney for the Sociedade
Conercial Nipo-Brasileira, his account corresponding in the
main with that of Dr. ARY P. ANDRADE FIGUEIRA, as indicated by
Source I. He stated, however, that he had begun handling the
affairs of this company subsequent to Novenber, 1942, whereas
information previously mentioned in instant report shows that
as curly as Septenber, 1942, he was known in Buenos Aires as
the lawyer of the company and was intended as the intermodiary
for the suSpicious letters to NAGAI and HAYAO. TELLES denied
that he had ever corresponded with the Socicdad Commerciai
Chilona Oriental, Linitada, Santiago, Chile, and asserted that
all of his correspondence with tho Nembei Compania de Irportacion
y Exportacion S.A. concerned only affairs of tho Rio de Janeiro
firm. He exhibited a filc purporting to contain all of his
correspondence which on cursory exanination appeared to consist
only of routine conr orcial'correspondence. TELLES stated that
the Santiago, Buenos Aires, and Rio de Janeiro firms were all
subsidiaries of the Mitsui Company of Japan.
TELLES cl imed that he had come into contact with
NaGAI only after he began handling the affairs of the Sociedade
Comercial Nipo-Brasilcira (which for reasons noted also appears
contrary to fact) and denicd acquaintanceship with SUETAKA HAYAO.
He further denied being in contact with any other Japanese in
Rio de Janeiro. It is known, however, that he net KANJI SHIRATO
- 5 -

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.98)
on various occasions on street corrcrs in Rio de Janeiro and
was also in contact with TOKOSA HIROTO, both Japanese. Con-
cerning NAGAI, TELLES stcted that he knew nothing about his
activitics but that in his opinion NAGAI was not pro-Japanese
in sympathy, this opinior being at odds with infornation pre-
viously developed concerr ing NAGAI. Although it is known
that the Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brnsileira used the Yokohana
Specic Bank as its principal banking agency, TELLES asserted
he keew no one connceted with this bank, expleining, however:
that his salary and NaGAI's were paid through this bank.
TELLES enphatically denied thet he had ever served as a
correspondonce internediary for the Japanese cr that he had
ever handled correspondence for NAGAI. On the whole, during
this conversation,  appeared evasive and lacking in frank-
ness.
TELLES' description as noted by Sources K and L is
as follows:
Age
50-55
Height
57
Weight
140-150
Build
Slim
Complexion
Dark, nulatto type
Hair
White and very curly, conbed
straight back
Eyes
Dark
Features
Thin face, snall sharp noso.
thin lips; has very dark
conplexion indicating possible
Negro blood but does not have
negroid features
Peculiarities
Very nervous, spoaks very apidly
Dress
On the occasion of to in erview
was tidily dressed ir whi suit;
wears a ring on loft hand, gold
setting with a large red stone
which appears to be a rubylite
encircled with snall dianends.
-6-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.95)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
Ee
DIRECTOR
63192
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
DC/R
United States Department of Justice
Mashington,D.A.
SWP
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
SPECIAL WAR PROHLEMS
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
FILE NUMBER
OIVISION
MAY 1 8 1945
Date:
May 11, 1945
0210/5-
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Department of State
Dvr
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject: Masuro Okamoto (Yokoyema), with aliases
4
C
As of possible interest to you there is being transmitted here-
with a memorendum vhich summarizes information received from a reliable
and confidential source concerning the activities of the above captioned
subject. You will recoll that Ckamoto was recently named Secretary for
Japanese affairs in the Spanish Embassy at Lima, Peru, and succeeded Victor
Tateishi, who hes been deported from Peru for internment in the United States.
Enclosure
2
Director of Naval Intelligence
cc:
C
Navy Department
War Department, Washington, D. C
Hashington, D. C.
Attention: Brigadier Gen'l C. W,Clar
1

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.93)
Apri1 12, 1945
MASUNO OKAMOTO (YOKOYAMA) alia
Luis Okamoto (Yokoyama), Masaro Yokoyama,
asuru Okamoto (Yokoyama)
LDMA, PERU
On Janunry 18, 1944, T TO TA TS I, also known a KAZUKI TATE TSHI, was
deported fro Pery to the United States aboard the United States Army
Transport "  Fo." Accord ng t thorou ly reliable Source C, he was
born in Peru September 22, 1y17, but had regarded his permanent residence
as the Kagoshima Profecture  Japan and in other ways had indicated that
his allogiances were ith Japan und not vith the country of his birth.
He hed been employed by the Spanisi basay as interpreter and Japanese
adviser when it asewned thc anagement of Japenese interests in Peru upon
the breakin, of diplomatic reintions in January 1942.
Upon TAts H Ts deportation, the Spanish Anbassador wrote a letter, made
available by reliable Source L, dated January 20, 1944, at Lima, Peru, to
Mr. TArD LE L4 Pu  ( AA), Paruvin inister of Covernment, in
which the Ambascador exprosced regret at the deportation of TAtETSHI. Ho
rolated thet TA Si T e dutios consieted solely of those of an interpreter.
The Ambassador continued b etat ng thnt, inesmuch. as the services of a
apanese ere indispensable in the propor carrying out of his obligation
to the Japanere Covernmont, it vould be necessary to replace TAtE ISHI
with Bomeone acqun nted with Japanose custome end the language. There
fore, if there was no ob jecti, o van euploying LUTS OKAVOTo (YOKoYAMA).
a Poruvian by birth, to act i  is capncity. However, before this person
would be hi ed, the tmbassador ex ressed the desire to know if anything
unfavorable appeared amon s sntecedents which would justify his
expulsion from Peru ns wes the co of T TSHI. Attached to the lotter
was the follovin personal date ragrdin A oro:
Age
25
Address
Avenida rancisco Piza ro 377 (Rimac
Dete of Hirth
ecember 21, 1916
District)
Place of Birth
I ima, Peru
Documente
Libreta lectoral 615580
Libreta Militar 283854
Educotion
a.  years proliminary instruction
at the "(olegio Modelo de Lima"
0. 2 years i the school of letters
at "o tificia Universidad Catolica
de Lime"
Perents
SHTHmlT OHAOrO, father, Alien Regis-
tration Carnet 23332
TATSU OKAHOO, mother, Carnet 23334.
Bot). ronide at Avenida Francisco
Pizarro ( imac District) /377.
Jan 2:, 1976 11
375),4
1017/78
-1-

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.92)
The matter was referred to the Dnternational Brigade of the Peruvian Police,
which had no derogatory information relative to OKAMOro in its files, and
hence the Winister of Government told the Spanish Ambassador that the
Peruvian Government hnd no objection to the Embassy s hiring him.
It has been subsequently reported fre diverse reliable sources, Japanese,
Peruvian, and Spanish, that KA OrO, whose Japanese given name is variously
pelled AsU 0, ASA , and ASU U, hns been Working at the Spanish Embasey
in the post formerly held by TAt TshI since the intter s doportation.
Usually roliable S urco  states thet he had boen nosisting in the Embassy
for at least two yenrs prio: to thnt time. This same Source says that
OKAv0r0•s salary 1s S/250.00 (approximately 40.00) por month at the
present time which, arcordin to Paruvin stanaards, is about average pay
for clerical work.
According to Source E, AAMOO Wo. ks under (ount AI TANO FLNANDEZ BURETA,
member of tho Spanish Diplontic staff charged with looking after Axis
interestr.  or ves not ly es translntor but also handles routine
matters for the Japnnese. hote consist rine pally of the following:
1. Pensions for the noedy, mád ut  funds wnich the Embassy is holding
for the Japanese Covernront. Japaneso must ake application for re
lief and then their cntos aro investigated by OkAMoro or an assistant.
Periodic checis of  oc pionts of pensione are made to ascertain that
the money is aot being pont rinrin  nmbling and that the
necessity still existr.
Lonewals of Ali iio t t uvinn xtranjerfe. Each six
monthe un alien must pay thirty soles (ubout 5. U.s.) or 10 per cent
of his month ly salary, va chovor is smaller, for this renewal. If a
person claime that he cetmot pay the thirty soles, he must have a
guarantor vhe will sweer th t th stetement as to his enrnings is ac-
curate. This the Srbase oee for the apanese. These cases may re
quire investiatio.
3. Voluntery dejortmio. past, te linited States lovernment has
allowed the famijiee f prsms depo ted y the Peruvinn Government to
the United tates for rhorment to join the internees should they so
desire. Arran onont t th apanase milies has been handled
throut the Spanie baosy. Lists of pereons desiring to be repatristed
have beer prepared for the rbase y the Japanese aseistants on the
basis of requests made by the yis he thoneeives.
4.
Honey sent by friends or relativos throur) the Spanish Enoassy to
persons detained i the United tates. Administrative details of
these transactione are handled by the dapanere aesistant.
5. Compiaints of Japanese hationals anainst strontment by Peruvian
author itiss.
- 2 -

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.94)
6. Bupervision of the disposition of the preperty of deperted Japamese.
As will be noted, okAmoro is but twenty-seven years of age and it would
seem legical to assume that he is guided in his astivities by older, mere
experieneed hands in the Japanese coleny. Sueh is the epimien af the
Intermational Brigade based on its investigations, acsording te Sowree D.
The same has been reported by Japanese Souree F who has preved reliable im
the past. The affai s of tho colony are reported by Sowee D to be in the
hands of three Japanese at the present time. They are: INIChI ARAKI,
IJII O TAUATA, and YOS TYUKT "A U A. AAKT is the mer of  porf
festery and is k wn to have been acquainted with NoaUo YAToH, Japanese
espionage ngent who was deported fro Ecundor in June 1943. TABATA, whose
deportation has fte been rucomnended hecause of his former prominenee in
Japanese affairs in Limm, has mnaged to avoid depertation through the
interoession of üre. Ar: P Al0, wife of the Presidont of Peru and god-
parent of lAATA's ohildren. TAMlA, who has not been so prominent in the
onomic life of the colony as have the other two, is 38 years of age and
arrived in Paru aroh 9, 1938, from Kobe, Japan, according to the Aliem
Fegistration recorde of the Peruvia xtranjerfn as mmde available by
Souree G. He is a newepaper an and as employed by the Japanese mewspaper
"Peru Jiho," the lest issue f which "as published in Limm on Deeeber 8,
1941. Source F adviess th t "A:nU A was sont to Peru by the Japamese
Government as representative of the Lomei Press. Inquiry made among loeal
journalists in my 1944 by raliable S urce T, lowever, failed to reveal
that he is known to have been active in local press cireles. TAkuA is
presently  ployed at the Spanish Eubnssy. According to Source E, his
funotion is thst of investi ator and most of his time  spent in the stroot.
However, S urces F and ! both declare thut  A:au.A is in fact the person in
charge of Japanese mntters in the Embassy and that OKANoto is only ostemsi-
bly in charge in order thnt  is Peruvian citizenship will lond to the acti-
vities immunity from intorference by the Peruvian Authorities. OkAmoro is
said to be subordinnte to TAuu A. Whethor the Spanish Embassy condones
this arrangement or is even aware of it is not known.
Sowree I states that KA  was a good friend of his predecessor, VICTor
TATET, as well as his sctoolmate. Ho stated further, and this is eerro-
borated uy Sources F and one:ally reliablo Source J, that the two of them
wore omp luyed by the Ja anose newspnper "Peru Jiho."
Souree X ham reliably reported that TATh: TSH! T, on Now Year' Day, 1942, ealled
upon the nisei or sesond-generation Japanese in Peru to take their stand with
the sountry of their origin. He is regardod to have been the leader of the
Japanese youth, and OYAuoro to have been one of his lieutenants. Souree F,
a Japanese, declnres thnt they both were membere of the Shonen Remmmi Kai or
Japanese Youth Foderntion, formed by the lemders of the Japanese colony and
supported by funds from the Japanese Legation. The Federation was dedieated
te sports and the ineulcation of Japanese totalitarian ideas. It is stated
that the more intelligent members of this society were given seholarmhips to
-3 -

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.93)
to lesel universities and even at times to Japamese universities.  bes
been alleged by Souree F that mmny of these youths, whe emjey the pretes-
tien of their Peruvian citisenship, are presently guarding memey in their
bank aseounts which is the property of importast and, in seme eases, de
ported Ja!anese.
Both Subject and TATE TS T are also said by Source F to have been eontaets
of YOS! TAt A lAvO, Japanose bus inessman in Panamm and known te have beem
an epionmve gont of tho Japannge government. Auano hed a bueiness
intorest in K. T. SUToMT . C ANY in Lima and, honee, had many contasts
hore and oconsion to frecuent y visit hore.
The Legistry of Foroign Firm mintained by the Peruvian Extranjerfa re
veals that Kaor s pa: onts oper te a restaurant at avenida marro #377,
Lima, under the firm name of Si KA oro. Among those omployed in
the restaurant i AYAk., Or. i 0, bearer of lion I egistration Carmet
23427, wo undoubtedly it a mombor of the family sinee her addrees is that
of the restrurant which, it will be oted, is also the family residence.
OKAO thar 1s koown bot nB  g nd ATBUO YOKOYAMA D
OKA:MOTO.
Source L hns made available a lettar addressed to AYAkO YOKOYAMA, Jirán
Ayacucho  32l, Hum cayo, and signed  ASAI C YI YAMA, probably a typographieal
orror and 'ntended to be Y OYAA. Bocauso of the fact that this is Sub-
joct' maternel name and probably thnt of AYAko OKAMoTo, it is comeluded
that this letter wns written by tho :ubj ct who signed and addressed it
so, hopins theraby to confuse the cansors. The letter io written in Spanish,
partly in !anhand and partiy , the typewriter, and is datd Mareh 27,
1944. It enls principal y with amily matters. At one poimt, tho writer
aye: "he nddrese it nll ri it ns you wrote it. Dn the futwre, con
tinue the ae. me can see that you a o intalligont." Another note,
written Maroh , 1y., ane uncjosed ir the samo envelope, mays: This
lotter is only to ask fior you and fu ther t) sive you (plural) -
particularly you (sin uin.) - some ndronitions that, you rmombor, have
beon made to you here. You know that you muet not speak of those mttors 
not even a word. Surely there will be p rsons that, knowing you, will be
lieve you will know someth in and are going to esk you a serie of ques-
tions. Likewise, the ld man will msk you. Not a word to anyone - not a
ingle word. You "ill already know the protexts to use to evade thom. I
have noted that those there are a pact of gorsipe."
From unrelimble Source  it wns royorted, in the early part of 1944, that
OKAMOTO's true name is not OKAMOTO but !.TOKA; thnt he is marrid to ome
ISABEL OKADA and persuaded her to bring suit mgainst the Baneo de Credito
to have funds released which were deposited in her name by a deported
Japemese, NIKAMats OKADA, known as the "Cotton King" of Peru. The money
ws unfrozen, there being charges that raft among Peruvian officials was
invelved in the case, and it was sug ested by Source 4 thnt it migat have

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.94)
me story has not been eellaborated by any other souree and, in view ef
e pUblicity Kiven to the law suit in which IBABRL OKADA DE MURIOKA is
beown to have participated, it seems unlikely that, HAD OKAMOTO been her
husband, this fact would not have received some publieity.
Bubject is doscribed as follows:
Name
MABUI O OKANOTO (YOKOYAM) a11
Iuis Okamoto (Yokoyam), Masuru
Okamoto (Yokoyamm), Masaro Yokoyam
Sex
ale
l'ace
Yellow
Nationality
Poruvian
Extractior
apanose
Age
26 (bor:: 12/21/18)
Isidence
Avenidaanc isco Pizarro #377, Lim
Hoight
2
Weight
140 1b8.
Build
Slender
Hair
Black
Fyes
srown
Comploxion
Yollow
Langua es
Spanish and Japanese
Oooupation
Howpnpermn and translator
Marita? Statur
Single
Trmediate relatives
SHNTKA OTO, father
TATSU YAMOTO aKa TATSUO YOKOYAM DE
OKANOTO, mother
Both residing with Subjeet
Documents
Poruvian Libretn Electoral A815580
Poruvian Libreta Militar #283854
-5-

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.89)
BuBt
94465
Jederal Mirrêau of Inuestigation
11
United States Bepartment of Sustire
Washington 25, D. C.
gecy
IN REPLY, PLEASE REPER TO
3
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
6
FILE NO. 64-21611
BY SPECIAL
Date:
June 14, 1:45
TO:
Mr. Frederick . Lyon
Chief, Division of Forcin Activity Correlation
Depurt ont of State
,uC
Sul Ject: J.IY - P   IX
As of possi le int r st  yo, lhure is at ached a copy of a memorandum
roccived fror a con idertia relia l source wic r flot in detail the activiti
uf cortain Jy nus, in ru who w re in cortact with Choko shirakawa, an employee of
Japaneses in enos Airus.
ho inir tior ontained in hi:  lorandun is availale to the American
La ie  uenos Aires, Ar entira; La Paz, olivia; Santiago, Chile; and Lima, Per
A hment
ce - ir ctor of Haal Intelligonce cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
Huvy Department, msl.inaton, D.c.
Jar Dopartment, Washington, D.C.
0111
C

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
May 5, 1945
Re: CHOKO SHIRAKA A, wa. JUAN KOBERTO MARTINEZ;
ANGELA ACOSTA DF DOBLESKY, W. ANGELA SARA COSTA;
SHINICHI YOKOYAMA; YOSHITOMO YAMAMOTO; HIDEO ANDO;
BUNJI OASHI ( ATANABE), JUAN BARTHEIMTS (ACEVEDO)
Lima, Peru
This investigation was begun upon receipt of information that ome
CHOKO SHIRAKAWA, an employee of the Japanose Embassy at Buenes Aires, Argentima,
was receiving coded airmail letters from Chile and Peru at the cover address
Juan Hoberto Martines, Calle Mexico 1815, Buenos Aires. & translation of the
letters recsived at that address dated December 15, 1943, and Jamuary 8, 1944,
reflected information regarding general activity in the Japanese Colony in
Lima, the fact that "IWAO TAkENAKA, the company's employee, . . . died . ..
October 28 (1943)", and that further letters should be sent to the post office
box in view of BARTHELMES' surveillanee by Peruvian Police.
It was ostablished that IWAO TAKENAKA, a Direetor of SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
TAIB0, died of gastric ulcers in Lima, October 28, 1943, and that another
partner in the same firm was JUAN BARTHEIMES (ACEVEDO), a Peruvian whe has
bean contimuously employed by and associated with Japanese mubjests since l929.
Aside from BARTHELMES, BUNJI OASHI was the sole member of the firm remaining
in Peru. On April 27, 1945, OASHI and BARTHELMES were arrested by the Peruvian
Police and their premises searohed. The following information was developed
during their interrogation by Source C, a reliable Covernment offieial.
SOCIEDAD ANONIMA TAIBO
The word TAIB0 represents the letters in the Latin alphabet which
form the words in Japanese meaning "P CIFIC THADING COMPANY, LTD." The
PACIFIC TFADING COMPANY was established in 1916 or 1917 in Limm as an import-
export house. It is affiliated with the PACIFIC TRADING COMPANY, LTD. of
Kobe, Japan, with branches and agents in Yokohama, Osaka, and Valparaiso,
Chile. This company was capitalized in 1924 at 1,000,000 yen. The Lima
Branch was capitali zed at 50,000 yen and continued until February 10, 1926,
at which time it was liquidated and the firm's representation was taken over
by YASUICHI ATANO. WATANO engagod in general import-export business until
the year 1934 at whieh time he supplemented his previous business with a project
to purchase the oil fields in Northern Peru which were located in Zorrites and
Villar and which were at thut time owned by FAUSTO PIAGGIO. The general
outlines of this project are set cut in the following letter dated Deeember 12,
1934, whieh was received by WATANO from the President of the PACIFIC TRADING
COMPANY, LTD. in Osaka, Japan.

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
"PACIFIC TRADING CO. LTD.
Osaka, Japan
(F.0.Box 51)
Confidential
(Ans. 15 fob. 1935)
"Mr. Y. iVatano,
Lima, Poru
Dear Sir,
Re: Crude Fetrolium
"I am in receipt of your confidential letter No. 617 of November
l6th in rogard to Letrolium business, contents of whieh have
been read with good desl interest. I appresiate your having
given special effort to collect various informations and to
make preliminary negotiations on the subject.
"In roply thereto, I would say that although it is by no means
less important to communicate directly with fessrs. Lobitos
Oilfields Limited, London for further negotiation, it would be
by far more important to study as to possibility of purehasing
the oilfields owmed by the Peruvian concern, Meesrs. FAUsTINO
PIAGGIO S.A.
"For my own guidance, I would like to know what is meant by 'lack
of fund' on the part of FAUSTINO  IAGGIO as you put it. It may
be a fund required for negative purposes such as up-keep of the
plant, or improvement of the present cutfit in order to reduee
cost of production, or simply to carry on operation, ete. While
on the other hand it may also be a fund necessary for positive
purposes such as drilling new wells, or orecting derricks or laying
pipolines, in short, to increase production or developing enterprise.
"Another important point I wish to know is what would be ourrent
market price of Crude Oil per metric ton in Peru, at which actual
business being done or the price being paid to producers for
domestie consumption. Although it is secondary consideration for
us to soll oil in the Poruvian market, it is very helpful for mo
to know the actual market price on the spot.
"Besides, as you probably be aware of, there is a secret understanding
between British and Ameriean Oil interests that they shall meintain
a certain limit as regards their selling price to Japan, which is
- 2-

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
maid to be U.S. 1.80 per barrel fob shipping point whether be it
from U.S.A., Permia, Duteh Indies or South America. Tneir past is
conmidored to be very solid and controlls world's market. For that
reason, it is essential for me to know exastly what would be the sost ef
crude oil fob Tarara. In crder to make clese ealeulation, I shall have
to be fully asquainted with various items coneerning to sost of
produotion and other charges.
"All much informations in hand, I shall be able to figure out whether
it will be paying proposition or not, which is a pivoting peint in
bringing this business to an ultimate success or not. In my opinion,
you will have no diffioulty in obtaining those valuable informmtions
above reforred to.
"Since the propomition requires huge capital and it is somowhat big
entcrprise to be carried out by ourselves singlehanded, I am not
only giving this matter my serious considoration as for our firm,
but am also in treaty with a group of financiers of A I standing,
with whome I am very intimately associated, for taking them into
partnership so as to reenforce financial strength of our firm.
"I am fully confident that there is leust anxiety finaneially,
should the enterprise be taker up as per outlined in your letter
under reply. Thorefore it is up to you to bring the matter to a
final auccess.
"I am pleased to note that negotiation vith Chilean capitalists has
little chance and that option viil expire by the end of the aurrent
year, when you shall probubly ba ublo to secure next chanee.
"However, in order to sutiafy myseli and also to convince my finanaial
friends as regards feasibleness or the enterpriso before making
final docision, I must heve your full report on the following datar-
(1) What is the arou or oilfields stating mumber of
acres devoloped and that of undeveloped.
(2) How many wells are there not under operation that are
producing oil.
(3) What is the prosent monthly production of crude petrolium.
(4)
What is the assessed value of the refining plants already
installed.
(5)
Whether is there any possibility of inereasing the
present cepacities of existing wells with elight
improvement.
-3-

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.95)
(6) What prospeot is there of drilling more wells in the
premises.
(7)
What is an avorage depth of the wells.
(8)
What is an approximate coat of boring a new
well and cost of arecting dorricks.
(9) How many resorvoirs are there.
(10) Doss it repuire more reservoirs if production
increnses.
(11) het will be the cost of  resorvoir.
(12) Te there any pipoline for conveyance, if so
how many miles.
(13) In case pipelires to be laid cnew, what will be
a distance.
(14) hat are the sizes e pipes required for.
(15)
What will be cost of layirg new pipeline excluding
pipes.
"As a matter of fact, I am contemplating to furnish pipes from this
side, that are not iron pipes and will be loss expensive though
wear better than iron.
"In mummorizing, you are requested to furnish me the foregoing
details by earliest airmeil, so that I shall lose no time in making
final decision upon receipt of your further advice on the subject.
Needlees to noution here, that you vil? no coubt take overy
procausion in way of makin thorough investigation finding out
ways and means how to ship the oil to Japen after purchase of the
property without any interference on tho pert of Poruvian government,
as otherwise huge investment wil' bear no dosired fruit.
"Looking forward to your early good neve,
I n
Yours very truly,
PACI IC THADIIG CO., LTD.
(illegible signature)
President"
-4-

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
In 1936 or 1937 one SHOTARO NISHIMURA, a Japanese who is smid to
have spent considerabie time in the United States, came to Peru to assist
WATANO in mmking the neeesmary arrangements for the purehase of the ei!
preperties abeve deseribed. NIsiImUTiA was reported to have some fer the
specifie purpese of sontacting the necessary governmental officials te seeure
their cooperation in the projest. However, the Peruvian Geverment refused
to allow the purahase of the oil properties by the Japanese. With the
umsuecessful termination of the oil projost in 1937, WATANO returmed to
Japan to take a position with the PACIFIC TRADING CO. in that country.
During the time that A ANo as in Peru his office staff consdsted
of BUNJI OASHI (WATANABE) and JUAN ART ELMES (ACEVEDO). On hi roturn to
Japan WATAno indieated that he would leave the import-export busimess which
he had developed in the hands of his two employees for their further develop-
ment. Inasmuch as meither of them had had suffiaient xperience in the
import-export business to run the establishment in Lima, arrangements were
made by WATAno in Japan for the sending of two experienced import-expert men
from the home office of the company. These men, KATSUYOSHI FUDITA (SUZUKI)
and IWAO TAKENAKA (MINA4I), arriVed early in 1938 and the SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
TAIB0 was organizad on July 27, 1938, with a capital of 10,000 soles
($1,550.00 U.S.). The shares were distributed as follows:
KATSUYOSHI FUDITA (SUEUKT)
S/.5,000 (250 shares at s/.20)
BUNJI OASHI (WATANABE)
2,000 (100 ahares at S/.20)
TWAO TAKENAKA (MINAMI)
2,000
(100 shares at S/.20)
JUAN BARTHFLMES (ACEVEDO)
1,000 ( 50 shares at 8/.20)
FUDITA was managing director of the firm until August 25, 1939, at
which time HIDro ANDo arrived from Japan to replace him. FUDITo transforred
150 sheres of hie stock to ANDo and left P'eru for Japan. The firm contimed
with ANDo as anaging director until November, 194l, at which time Japanese
merchant vessels no longer called at ports on the west coast of South America.
The fim was placed on both the British and merican Proclaimed Lists of
Bloeked Nationals in 1941. The company owned 500 shares of stoek in the
SOCIEDAD DESMOTADORA E. INDUS RIAL DE HUARAL, LTDA. which has sinoe boon
sold and which had extensive business relations with the SOCIFDAD AGRICOLA
RETES and with the firm of MAURICIO HOCHSCHILD.
So far as the actual conduoting of the business was coneerned
OASHI advised that the large purchases of raw cotton, minerals, ste. which
were made by the company prior to the outbreak of war were arranged by
TAKENAKA and ANDO while the smaller purahases of socks, cotton goods, etc.
were handled by himself and BARTHELMES.
HIDEO ANDO was deported from Poru to the United States on the USAT
SHAWNEE June 16, 1942. TAKENAKA died at Lima, Peru, Ootober 28, 1943, leaving
OASHI and BARTELS as the sole remaining mombers of the firm.
-5-

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.94)
BHW ASHI (WATANARE)
OAsHI 1s a Japemese mtional he ms berm Marth 1. 1914, in Mataud,
a provinee of Shimane en the island of Japan. He arrived in Pera in Jaly
1932, and immediately was empleyed by YAsUICHI ATAN0 as is above set out.
He semtimaed in that employ until WATANo's departure fer Japan and was eme
of the founding members of the SOCIKDAD ANONIMA TAIB). Sinee the outbreak
of war he has been engaged in buying and selling various goods of leeal
mamfaeture. lie has been assoedated in all ef his prejests wth JUAN BARthEum.
OSHI advieed that he had never been a membor of the Japanese Central
Seelety and hed had very little contact with the Japamese Legatiem prier to
the severanee of diplomatie relations. He diselaimed any aetivity ef pelitienl
mature and stated that his entire time was oeeupled with his busimess. He
indieated that he had made no trips to Japan sinee his arrival is 1932.
when questiomed regarding th: correspondenee of the eempany th
representatives im Santiage and Buenos Aires, OAsHI at first stated that they
had no eorrespondenee whatsoever with Buenos Aires and that they reeeived
infrequent eemmunieatiens from Santiago. hen questiomed spesifieally eem-
sernimg the JUAN ROBERTO MARTINE: address in Buenes Aires, OASHI stated that
the address had been given to him by KAWAGUCHI, a direster of the eompany in
Santiage, Chile,  that OAsI couid a maunicate the news ef the death of
TAKENAKA to Buenos Aires.
OasHI later admitted that the above statememt was tetally false
so far as the eaplanation of the MARTINEZ address was sonserned and stated
that the cerrespondence in question was handled in the felleming mammer. The
letters were eneed d in Lima by YOSHITOMO YAMAMOTO, Seeretary of the Japamese
Chamber of Commeree and Secretary of the Colegio de Santa Beatris (Japamese
Sehool). These letters were then mailod by either YAMamoTo himself or by TWAO
TAKENAKA. To the best of OASHI's knowledge, all of the letters wore semt te
the JUAN ROBERTO MARTINCZ address in Buenes Aires. The repliee frem Buenes
Aires were addressed to one of the follewing:
Sociedad Anonima Taibo
Apartado 460
Lim, Peru
Juan Barthelmes A.
Apartado 460
Lim, Poru
Juan Barthelmes
Igmmeio Narino 1862
Lima, Peru
-6-

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.97)
The foregoing are the only three addresses thieh OAshI admitted
were utilized in thi= correspondence. However, the following addresses of
prinaipals in this case mmay possibly have been ussd as mil drops. Special
attention is dirested in this regard to the GONZAIEZ SILVA address which
was registered in that name but which actually was the post offiee bex
utilized by YAMAMOTO.
Bunji Oashi
Yoshitomo Yamamoto
Apartado 460
Apartado 2763
Lima, Peru
Lima, Peru
Bunji Oashi
Juan Barthelmes
Manuol dol Pino 579
Apartado 2763
Lima, Peru
Li a, Poru
Gonzales Silva
Yohitomo Yaamoto
Apartado 2763
Huiracocha 1570
Lima, Peru
Lima, Peru
Upon receipt of the letters by BArTHELaES or OASHI, they were
turned over to TAkFNAKA or Do who in their turn delivered them to YAuaMoTo.
OasiI denied any uctivity aside from serving as a mail drop for the instant
correspondence. lHe estinated that upproximately ten letters were received
by him and BA THELlES from Buenos Aires during the time that they acted as
mail drope. le pointed out i: this regard thut since the criginal arrangements
were made by YAMAkOTO with TAKENAKA, the latter handled the receipt of letters
until his death at which time OASliI took over the activity. With the deporta-
tion of YAMAMOT0 on January 18, 1944, the correspondence ceased according to
QASHI. He denied activity of any kind since that date. At the mme time,
however, he indicated that if he had engaged in subversive activity of any
kind he wou d not admit same and would do everything in his power to prevent
the information from arriving in the hands of the Peruvian and American
authorities. He pointed out that his country was at wur with both Peru and
the United States and that he at all times wo id conduct himself as a loyal
Japanese.
with reference to the mail hich vas recoived from Santiago, OAsHI
advised that the lotters were written by either KAWAcUCHI or HUYAMURA, both
of whom were directors of the CIA. COMRCIAL TAIBO in Santiago. He stated
that they received approximately one letter each month and that it was
generally addressed to BARTELlES at his home or at Apartado 460, the post
office box registered to SOCDEDAD ANONIMA AIBO in Lima, Poru. Upon receipt
of these letters BARTHELlES is reported to have turned them over to ANDo,
TAKENAKA, or OASHI. In the event that the subject matter of the letters had
to do with the company business they were retained by them in the company
offices. If they pertained to the activities of the Japanese Colony such as
-7-

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.97)
the lotter of Jammary 26, 1943, they were turned over to YAuaoT0. At the
time of his arrest BARTiELMES had in his possession a letter dated at
Santiago, August 6, 1942, written in English acknowledging recsipt of a
letter from BARTHELES on July 30, 1942, and requesting that an accomparying
letter in Japanese bo delivered to HIDE) ADO. The signature of the letter
was illegible but wus signed by an official of the CIA. COMERCIAL TAIBO,
Santiago, Chile. The return address was Casilla 147-D, Santiago, Chile.
As is above described OASHT indicated that the ahannels of cerrespondense
between the two branehes of the PACIFIC TRADI NG CO. in Lime and Santiago
were utilised for correspondenee of a commercial nature and also for letters
from the Japanese Colony in Santiago to the Japanese Colony in Limm and vise
versa. OASiI denied that he was aware of the mubjest matter disoussed in
the letters having to do with other matters than company business sinee mush
letters were always encoded or decoded by YAuAMoTO. He added, however, that
on oecasion YAuAMOTo would advise him as to certain matters which had been
disaussed in the coded correspondence.
Ho knew, for example, that YAMAMoto had written to Buenos Aires
requesting that funds be made available to him inasmuch as the Spanish Eabassy
had repeatedly denied his requests for financial assistance. He alse knew
of the information of TAkENAkA's death which was sent to Buenes Aires inammch
as he had advised YAkAuoto to send it. He professed to know nothing regarding
the other items set out in the correspondence between YAMAMOTO and SHIRIKAWA.
OASHI stated that the business correspondenee between the offiee
in Lima and that in Santi=ge wes written either on Underwood pertable type-
writer "529464 which was found in his possesaion at the time of his arrest,
or on an Underwood Standard typewriter which was also located in the Subjest's
house. He sdded that a mumber of the letters from YAMAmOTo to Chile amd
Buenos Aires had also been written on one or the other of these mehines.
He was not aware as to whether YAliamoro possessed a Hermes portable typewriter
or not but stated that some of the letters were written by YAMAMoto himself
at his home or someother place aside from the office of the SOCIEDAD ANONIMA
TAIBO.
OASHI pointed out that YAMAMOTO had received his original instruetions
regarding the establishing of the clandestine correspondonce and the sending of
information to Chile and Argentina from one SHINICHI YOKOYAMA. The latter
was formerly an Attach& at the Japanese Legation in Lima who ngaged in commercial
studies and reporting, YOKOYAMA left Peru January 16, 1941, aboard the Hoyo
Maru. The official Peruvian records indicate the destination was Kobe, Japan.
However, it was OAShI's understanding that at the time of his departure he
wes proceeding to Buenos Aires.
JUAN BARTHELMES (ACEVEDO)
This individual is of P ruvian nationality and parentage and was
born August 7, 1906, at Callao, Peru. He attended the high sehool in Callao,
graduating in 1922. He was employed by ESSEi. DUVAL from 1922 until 1929.
一8

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
At the termimation of that employment he worked at a lumber mill in Callae
fer appreximtely ene month. He theroupon sesured employment with the
NIPPON YUSEN KAIBHA STEAMSHIP LINE in Callae where he remmined unt11 1932.
Im 1932 he was =pleyed for three months in the eotton fields of Pnu mnkA,
a Japanese concern, as assistant accountant at Chaneay, Peru. Following
this he was empleyed the same year by YASUICHI WATANO whem he deseribed as
a somaission broker and remained in this job until 1937 whem WATAN0 returned
to Japan. BARThELkEs indicated that he as aware of the projeet for the
purehase of oil fields in Northern Peru in whiah WATAno was involved and
stated that WATAno's departure came about shortly after the desision of
the Peruvian Governmment to prohibit the transfer of the oil fields to
Japanese hands.
As previously indicated BATHELMES bocame one of the founding
stoekholders of S0CIEDAD ANONIMA TAIB0 on July 27, 1938, with an invested
capital therein of 1,000 soles ($155.0 U.s.). He was an active partieipant
in the affairs of the company as long as it was doing business. With the
outbreak of war and the teraination of the export-import trade between Peru
and Japan, BARTHELMES engaged in various miscellaneous busimess projeets
with BUNJI OASHI. According to BARTHELMES this has consisted chiefly in
the buying and selling of the small lots of merchandise whiek have been
available on the local market.
BARTHELlES denied having engaged in any activity of a ubvoraive
nature on behalf of the Japanese at any time. He further denied that he
had ver been a party to the transmittal of clandestine correspondonee between
Peru and any other country. He stated that he had never been a member of
any Japanese societies and was not accepted socially as a Japanese inasmuch
as he was a Peruvian by parontage and nationality. He further denied that any
of the members of the company were members of any Japanese association or
organisation with the axception of YASUICHI WATANO whom he believed was a
member of the Japanese Central Society. Throughout the interrogution BARThELES
indicated a hostile attitude and gave evasive and misleading answers whenever
posaible.
Upon being confronted with the information givon by OsHI and copies
of letters aetually received by him, one of which was found in his posseesion
at the time of his arrest, he admitted that he had received a small amount of
correspondence from both Santiago and Buenos Aires. However, he stated that
further than that he had received the letters and given them to HIDEo AND0 er
IWAO TAKENAKA. It is to be noted in this connection that he denied having
given any of the letters to OASHI, a fact which was admitted by OASHI himself.
BARTHFIJES placed the total amount of correspondence received from Santiago
at "two or three letters". As has been noted previously, OASHI indicated that
at least one letter a month was received over a period of at least two years
following tho outbreak of war.
- 9 

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.97)
During the earlier questioning of OashI the latter admitted
that on severai occasions prior te the cutbreak of war he had suggested
to BARTHELlES that the latter go to Japan at the company's expense on a
business trip. When questioned in regard to this projest BARDißLES denied
any knowledge of any mueh plan and admitted that the proposition was made
to him only after confronted with the direct statoment of OAsHI to the
contrary.
Upon finally admitting that he had acted as a mmil drop for the
correspendenee as above indicated, he denied ever having knom anything
of the contents of the letters and further denied any mubversive astivity
on behalf of the Japanese.
SHINICHI YOKOYAMA
This individual was a member of the Japanese diplomatie establishment
in Limm prior to his departure on Jamuary l6, 194l. He allegedly mas employed
in the study and reporting of commercial activities in Peru. In 1938 he wms
the author of an artiele which appeared in a publication of the Japamese
Central Sosdety entitled "Dai Han-bei to lHon-po-jin no Katsude" (Aetivities
of the Japanese in Greater South America). In this artiele YOKoYAMA sketehed
briefly the commereial and industrial enterprises of the Japanese in South
America. He made special reference to Brasil and Peru, emphasising the
strength of the Japanese in Brasil. He pointed out that the value of their
agrioultural produotion in the state of Sao Paulo alone amounted in the year
1936 to 150,000,000 yen. He coneluded that the prineipal stage for Japanese
activities in South America must of necessity be Brazil and Peru because of
the great superiority in mumbers of the Japanese residents of these two
countries. A translation of the final paragraphs of this article is as follows:
"At present Japan is proceeding with significant steps in her
advance on the continent of East Asia. This mission we mast
carry out regardless of sacrifice in order to secure and extend the
vital life-line of cur Empire. For this reason it is possible that
expansion toward South America cannot be considered for the moment;
howsver, for the very reason that we are engaged in the "China
Incident" we must foster and develop to the fullest degree
agriaulture and mining in this South American area.
"Japanese activities in the South American countries have so
far been in the hands of the first generation and we mist
await the time when the responsibility will be shifted to the
Japanese of the seeond and third gonerations. Now the
responsibility rests squarely on the shoulders of every Japanese
here。
"Will the day not soon come when the children of the Japanese
inmigrants who landed on the east coast of the South Ameriean
continent cross the Andes and shake hands with their brothers
of the west coast in the upper reaches of the Amazon!?"
一10

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.98)
As was previously pointed out, YOKOYAA was alloged by OAsiI tō
have been the individual who instructed YAuauoto in the establishing ef the
slamsestime eorrespondence upon which this investigation was predionted.
YOSHITOMO YAMAMOTO
This Subjeet is a Japanese national who was born in Japan in 1912
and entered Peru in 1928 from Kobe, Japan. He carried Japanese Passport
#095995 and was issued Peruvian carnet 19064. While in Lim he resided at
Jirón Huiracocha 1570. He was Secretary of the "Asociacion Japonesa de
Comeraio • Industria del Poru" (Japanese Chamber of Commeree). He was also
Sesretary of the Colegio de Santa Beatrfz (Japanese Schoel) which is lecated
at Avsnida Franaiseo J. Mariategui 1057, Li a, Peru. The subjest was alse
a member of the VIDRIERIA I. TOMITA & CIA. which was lecated at Guadalupe
1027 in Lima. This was a second class store selling glass pieture frames
whieh was operated by several Japanese. This firm appears on the Proelaimed
List of Certain Blocked Nationals.
At the time of the early deportations of Japanese from Peru the
Subjest escaped through the influence of Dr. CFSAR CARDENAS (GARCIA), then
Director of Government, who was removed from his post beeause of proof that
he had received substantial sums of money to "protest" impertant Japanese
and German nationals who had been cited for deportation. It is rumored that
CAD NAS (GARCIA) furnished the Subject with a safe conduct pass to emble
him to proceed at will without being molested by the police.
The Peruvian Police stute that the Subjoct was aotive during his
latter residence in Peru as a commorcial s y and that they consider him a
particularly dangerous Japanese.
According to the statements of BUNJI OASlI whiah have been set
out above, this individual wms responsible for the coded messages sent to
the JUAll ROBERTO MARTIN Z address in Buenos Aires. He is also reported by
the same souree to have engaged in coded correspondenee with Japanese in
Santiago, Chile, through the medium of the correspondence between the TAIBO
firms in Lima and Santiago.
The Subjeet was deported from Peru January 18, 1944, on the USAT
MADISON.
HIDEO ANDO
This person was born in Japan and arrived in Peru in August 1939.
He was sent from Japan to replace KATSUYOSHI FUDITA (SUZUKI) as mamaging
director of SOCIEDAD ANONIMA TAIBO in Läma. He was a member of the Direotorate
-11 -

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.97)
of the Asesiacion Japonesa de Comercio e Industria del Peru and ms promiment
in the astivities of the Japanese Colony.
As has been indicated previously, ANDo figired as intermodiary
for some of the letters which were sent from Chile to Peru. It is poimted
out in this connection that a letter was found in the pessessien of BARTheims
at the time of his arrest in whi ch BARThELkES was directed to hand the enelesed
letter in Japanese to HIDEO ANDO. ANDO was deported from Peru to the Umited
States June 16, 1942, on board the USAT SHANEE.
IWAO TAKENAKA (MINAMI)
TAkKNAKA was a Japanese national who was born in 191l and whe entered
Peru from Osaka, Japan, in the latter part of 1937 or the early part of 1938.
He was sent from Japan by the PACIFIC TRADING CO., togother with KATSUYOsHI
FUDITA (SUZUKI) to assist in the founding of the SOCIEDAD ANONIMA TAIBO. Ho
contimued to work in the interests of this company until his death Ostober 28,
1943. He held Peruvian carnet "21242 and resided at Avenida Petit Thouars 1354,
Lime.
According to the statements of OnSiI, TAK NAKA was contacted by
YOSHITONO YAMAMOTO to stablish the SOCIEDAD ANONIMA TAIBO as the Gover for
clandestine corres ondence between Buenos Aires and Lima. TAkENAkA is also
known to have made trips to La Paz, Bolivia, during which he contacted one
T. HAYAKAWA, a Japanese national residing in that city. The latter is knewm
to have boen a business client of SOCIEDAD ANONIMA TAIBO and to have alse been
a close personal friend of TAKENAKA. OASHI denied knowledge of any elandestine
correspondenee of subversive activity in which HAYAKAWA was involved. It is
pointed out in this connection, however, that OASHI denied knowledge of anything
aside from matters on which he believed that actual proof existed to the eontrary.
All available travel records existing in Peru ware searehed by Souree
D, a reliable Peruvian official, for evidence indicating that ANELA ACoSTA
had travelled in thie country, with negative reeults.
A description of BUNJI OASHI (WATANABE) is us follows:
Nationality
Japanese
Rase
Yellow
Place of birth
Matsui, Province of Shimane, Japan
Date of birth
March 31, 1914
Hair
Black, parted on left side
Eyes
Brown, slanted, uses horn-rimmed glasses
Hoight
5° 7"
Woight
135 1bgc
Chin
Clean shaven
Civil status
Married
Profession
Commission merehant
Residence
Mammel del Pino 579, Lima, Peru
Date of arrival in Peru
July, 1932
-12-

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.97)
The following is a description of JUAN BARTHELES (ACEVEDO):
Nationality
Peruvian
Raee
White
Complexion
Swarthy
Place of birth
Callao, Poru
Date of birth
August 7, 1906
Eyes
Brown, uses hornrimmed glasses
Hair
Dark brown
Height
5° 6"
Weight
150 1bs.
Other identifying data
Diagonal gold cap on upper front tooth
Civil status
Married
Frofession
Commission merehant
Address
Ignacio Merino 1862, Lima, Peru
-13-

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.93)
CLAE-FC
ICTORY
π
Rederal Bureau of Inuestigation
BUY
United States Department of Dustice
DC/R
Washington 25, D. C.
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
N REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
64-21209
ILE NO.
APA
Date:
June 29, 1945
HWC
To:
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Jesg
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
TOMIYA KOSEKI;
JAPANESE ACTIVITIES IN CHILE AND ARGENTINA
004.00.10/6-2045
Reference is made to information previously furnished to you in
a letter dated April 24, 1945, concerning the above-entitled matter.
As of possible interest to you, there is attached a memorandum
containing additional information regarding Carlos Santa Cruz and Ius Poblete
who are connected with the above-captioned Japanese individual.
This information was received from a confidential source believed
to be reliable and is available to the American Embassies in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, and Santiago, Chile.
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
Washington, D. C.
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service
W.Fil
JUN 301045
AL
Enclosure
Jan. 22, 197c - FB1 H2
sn
1217/75

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.88)
way 9.1945
RE: TOMIYA KOSERI, with allases, et al
santiago, chslo
wrote a letter, dated May 21. 191.3, to the Ameriean Ambaseader as
Seatlego, Chile. In this latter JoiLZ stated that CanLos ara 
(ros1t ), a former corresp ndent for the Japanese prepagandm sheet in
and for mnother putliont lon w!ich were poth finaneed by the apememe.
ol. fuler stato tht  4 P, tho mother of caos a
. toly hin that tie Japa:oao al: Goruans planned to mend perseme in
the capacity of students or tourists to the nited stales to mondust
mots of salota a a ainst loric war indistries and that her son, caalos
  one of the pon.
n Ar11 30. 1, w Intervimed by reliable soure
C at 1s rosiuenee. At that time iA: stated that he hes been
uinted with  roll. and hor o, Chhi Sa Ch, fer mmber
of years and curing these years of acyuaintaneeahip they have almays
been extreuely pro-Hasi In tr.eir sontiments. ONZALRz further stated
that on the tasis of statements made to his by LUz PoBLetE, he knew
that she acted as a courier between thile and Argentine for the Japamess.
but he said that he does not have any Joamantary evidenee to preve her
setivities in t.is respect.
Accor n. to  2: , in the early part of May. 1943. LUz
Polrt told him tha: she hai to o to Buenos Aires, Argentinm. im arder
to bid rareweli to her son, cA  Aia Chiz, who was leevimg for the
United Statea. She told :"zA  that the Jormane and Japanese had
planned to mend various individuals, one of whom was CAli0S santa ChUz.
to the nited states in tho capacity of students or tourists, but that
In reality te nission os these indivlduals was to commit mots of
sabotage galinst the Aaorican war Industries. At that time Luy PoßLetE
Inaleate to uNZi . that about twenty individuals were to be seat
to the United States as saboteurs. She did not advise Jonzalaz af the
Identities of these indivicuals wiin the exeeption of her son, canios
3Ayia ub he also did not furniah inzal with any further details
ooneernin this mtter.
 pointd ut tht  fo onth later  Po told
him that the arorewentianed plan failed due to the feet that individuals
who were seleeted to ge to the United States were unable to seeure the
Leavin: for the Jnited 3tates fron Buenos Aires, Argentina. Gonzalez
said that mubsequent to makins these statements, LU2 POBLeTE never mem-
tloned this matter again.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.93)
Lo statod that at the premant time she is remidine in Santinge
on Calle Rodolfo Phillipp! lo. 2 and that apparently ahe is not magaged
-in any mctivities or a suspicious nature. He said that mbout every twe
months aho goos to buenos Alres to visit hor mon, CAfLOS SANTA CRUZ, whe
is atill boin dotainod by the Argantine muthoritles.
X2alnZ mn thorouhly questioned in an offort to seowre
definito information concernin: the ospionago mctivities of Luz PoBLetk.
GonzAl% stated that no does not have any definite information of value
in thie respoct. Asice from tho fact that he new that Luz PoBLeTE
acted as a courier between Chile anc Argentins for the Japanese, be does
not know whether or not sho was a prominent figure in Japanese espienage
operations.
一

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
Jederal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of Justice
△HOC
Binn 25,D. C.
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
AO
PILE NO.
ABENCAN HEPUBLIL ALLAIRD
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
AUG
E1840
Date:
July 28, 1945
DOPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE OF
DC
To:
Mr. Frederick
AMERICAN REPUBLIC AFFAIRS
Chief
V8 1945
210/7-2845
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
DIVISION OF AMERICAN
REPUSLIG ANALYSIS AND
FFrom:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, Federal Bureah
SubJOCT: JAPANESE ACTIVITIES IN SOUTH AMERICA
As of possible interest to you, there is attached a memorandum containing
information received from a confidential and reliable source pertaining to the activities
of Japanese agents in Argentina, Chile, and Peru.
The information contained in said memorandum is available to the American
Embassies in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Lima, Peru, and Santiago, Chile.
894.20210
cc - Director of Naval Intelligence
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff
E
Navy Department
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
QUL 3 1 1945
Ittention: Brigadier General rterw. Clarke
5
C
Enclosure
S
0

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.96)
June 8, 1945
RE: CHOKO SHIRAKAWA, wa. Juan Roberto Martines:
ANGELA ACOSTA DE DOBLESKY, wa. Angola Sara Costa;
SHINICHI YOKOYAMA; YOSHITOMO YAMAMOTO;
HIDEO ANDO; BUNJI OASHI (WATANABE);
JUAN BARTHELMES (ACEVEDO)
Santiago, Chile
It will be reCalled that questioning of JUAN BARTHELMES and BUNJI OASHI
by the Peruvian Police in April of 1945 disclosed that these two subjeets had
received and forwarded correspondence both from and to an unknown drop box in
Busnos Aires, Argentina. Both subjects stated that they had received through the
use of a drop box in Peru communications from Santiago, Chile, which they said
wore forwarded to Lima by one HUYAl URA and one KAWAGUCHI, both mombers of Casa
Taibo in Santiago, Chile.
Source C advised that the only employee of Taibo in Santiago, Chile,
with a name resembling HUYAMURA was YADAHARA UYEMURA (OKUDA). According to Souroo
C. this Japanese citizen was employed by Casa Taibo in Santiago and Valparaiso,
Chile. Source C was unable to statc when thissubject arrived in Chile oxcept to
say that it was sometime prior to 1937. In 1939 he worked in Valparaiso, leaving
that City at the end of 1939 to return to Japan. According to Source C, sinoe
that date, he has not returned to Chile.
Source C furnished the following information taken from the files of
the Identification Division of the Chilean Police. UYEMURA was registered with
the Chilean Police under Prontuario No. 795975. lle gave as the names of his
parents MAllASUKE and HIDE. He was born in Sakamura, Japan on September 5, 1893.
He was married to HISako NAKaGaWa TCGA. As relatives he listed two brother in
Japan and in 1937 he gave as his address Calle Agustinas No. 1055, Santiago, Chile.
At the time of registering with the Police, he presented Japanese Passport No.
533165 issued at Yokohama, Japan, august 23, 1922.
The KAWAGUCHI above referred to is believed to be KENOSUKE KAWAGUCHI
(MURATA), who was employed by the Casa Taibo (Pacific commercial trading company)
in Santiago, Chile. Source D advised that KAWAGUCHI was the son of the President
of the Pacifio Trading Company in Osaka, Japan. While in Santiago, Chile, he was
very friendly with the Japanese Legation personnel and was also reported by Souroe
D as writing complete business reports for the Legation. He served as President
of Casa Taibo while in Santiago. le was described as follows:
Name - KENOSUKE KAWAGUCIII (LURATA), alias
Age -'33 in the year 1942
Konosuke Kawaguchi
Height - 5 feet and 6 inches
Weight - 154 pounds
Glasses - Yes, is very near
Peculiarities - Walks with slight swagger.
sighted.
Head - Small
Eyes - Small
Face - Thin and old looking with: high
Teeth - Gold filled
forehead.
DECL
Jan. 23, 1976 - FB1 
-1-
1217/78
8
y

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.91)
Source E a ivised that MAve MmeI was identified as a Japanese espionage
agent whon codo? mossages were intercepted in Santiago, Chile, from Buenos Aires,
Argentina, in February, 1643, which nessuges when decoded concerned espionage
operations of the Japanese and untioned VA onI as being an active agent in
Santiac, Chilc.
- 2 -

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
NT OF STAT
De
:DGAR HOOVER
ICE OF
DIRECTOR
AMI RILAN KEPUBLIC AFFAIRST
1945
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
United States Department of hustice
06
Washington, D. C.
NWC
PERSCNAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Rt
D/
Date:
August 27, 1945
fell
To:
lir. Frederick B. Lyon
AUG 251945
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
894.20210/8-2745
From:
John Edgar Hoover - Director, ederal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
Alfonso Letelier (Ilona), with alias Alfred Letelier
Chile
As of in'erest to you, there is transmitted a memorandum con-
c-rning the above subject received from reliable confidential sources.
rrevious information had indicated that the name of this individual
appeared in the personal notebook of Yoshitaro Amano, who has been an
alleged chief of Japanese espionage in Panama and Costa Rica. Letelier
and Amano travelled from Valparaiso, Chile, to the Canal Zone on the same
ship several years ago, although you will note it a pears that this sub-
ject is pro-Allied and no evidence was ascertained linking him with sub-
versive activitice of the Japanese.
This information has been made available to the United States
Embassy at Santiago, Chile.
Enclosure
co - Director of Haval Intelligence
Navy Department
C
Washington, D. C.
Ja11 23. 1976- F131 #2
S
12/7/78
cc - Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Department
Washington, D. C.
Attention:
Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service
8
-0
h
20210
FOPVICTORY
DCR - ARA Unit
人人
BUY
UNITED
Anal.
4
STATES
DEVANSI
心
BONDS
Rev.
STAMPS
AND
745

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.93)
July 11, 1945
RE: ALFONBO LTSLIR (LLONA). .
Alfred Letelier
Santiago, Chile
Souree C wdvised in July of 1942 that from a roliable souroe it ms
ascertained that the mame of ALF L L T: LI R appeared in the personal notebook
of YOSEITARo AWAllO, reported chief of Japanese intelli ence who had been operating
in Panama and Costa Fica. The address for L T IER was iven as the Chilean
Consulate in New York City Jubsequent inquiries in New York City refleoted that
LiT.LI was not on tho diplomatic list, nor was he rogistered with the Dopartment
of state as being a memner of the Chilean Consular Staff.
However, records in New York City did roveal that A. LTkLIEn and his
wife WaRgakITa mailed fram New York City on April 12, 1938, for Naples, Italy.
This pereon had stated that he intended to return later to Chile, where he was
a citison. He gave as his nearest relative I l L TLIs, Cienfuegos No. 55,
Santiago, Chile, his father.
In April, 1945, it ms ascertained from reliable Source D that ALFoNso
LieiItR (LLona). a Chilean citizen, thirty-three years of age, residing at
Cienfuegos No. 55, Santiago, Chilc, had a reservation to travel from Buenos
Aires, Argentina to Santiago, Chile on April 28, 1945, via Panagra Airlines. On
that same day there was listed a reservation in the name of WI UtL LiTELIR
(ESPINOLA) of the same address.
Relimble Souroe E determined that MI L LT! LINR (SPINOLA) s a
Chilean citizen about sixty-one years of a e. le is an engineer by profession,
baving received his degree in Belgium. He is a member of the Liberal Party of
Chile and was a Wational Deputy from l0l5 to l921. Luring the reign of President
Ilaz, ho occupied the positions of Minister of Fomento and later Minister of
Intorior. MIGUEL LETaLIsR is mrried to LIS, LLoNA (R.YES) and has the follow-
ing hld ALFO, . L, J. ULL d CONSUELO.
According to ource , Y U L I owned tho large farm "Acueleo"
located near Hospital, Chile. This farm was one of the most important and
productive of the entire contral recion, producin, hemp, wheat and cranges. It
was stocked with approximately 1.00 head of cattle and about 200 horses. Con-
tinuin, Jource  advised that the La LIha family enjoys a very good reputation
and is considered quite wealthy.
This aano source informed that ALFonso LTalInn was an argioultural
enginoer by profession but spent most of his time composing music and was well-
known in Santiago for his musioal works. He was eduoated at the German School
in Santiagc and later the Catholic miversity. He married MaRoARITA VALOEs
(suBiRCas AUX). From a source very cloae to the family Source & ascertained
that both aLFuusc and MIGul, his father, are pro-Allied, although they do not
liko hussia. Their common complaint a ainst the Comaunists is that they dis-
turb the tranquility of the workers.
-1-

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
Reliable Source  confirmed the above informmtion regarding Alromso
and the LTELIER family and said that it was considered one of the best familles
in Chile. In addition, he advised that Alroiso has made several trips to
Argentina, one of them in l94l at the invitation of a musical society of Buemes
Aires. In 1945 he was also in Buenos Aires in company with his wife and father
and returned to Chile in April of that year. Investigation by Souroc F revealed
that the L&fsLIER family was considered pro-Allied.
Information contained in the Biographical Dictionary of Chile for
1944 revealed that ALF0Ni0 LTLIR (LLONA) ws born in Chile on October 4. 1912.
He graduated from the Catholio University in 1934. He later received the title
of Composer in the National Conservatory of Music in Santiago. This book deseribed
him as the author of various musical compositions, aymphony, piano and choral
mumbers. He was listed as a member of the Bach Society and tho Sociedad de
Amigos del Arte (Society of Friends of Art). From Source  it wms determined
that ALFONSC LETeLItk (LLoiA) was granted a nonimmigrant visa to anter the United
States on Pebruary 14, 1938. Ho was accompanied by his wife MA ARITA and said
ho desired to go to tho nited States to atudy music and also in order to contimue
his trip to Italy. The only address ho ave for the nited States was in eare of
the Chilean Consul in New York City.
ALFt Nso LETELIER (LLoA). 55 Cienfuo, cs, Santiago, advised that he
departed from Valparaiso, Chile, in company with his wife in about Maroh of 1938
for Now York City. He traveled on bcard one of the Grace and Company "Santa"
ships, but he did not recall which one. He said that during the trip he became
acquainted with many of his fellow passongera, one of whon was a Japanese. He
denied knowdng this Jap before ho boarded the siip und stated that while he could
not be positive, he believed that the Jep ws YoslIfo AMaNo. He rolated how
ho talked to this Jap on several ocousions and said at one time the Jap brought
out a large number of pictures he had taken in Chile and Argentina. LETELIER
was surprised to find that among these photographs was even one of his father's
farm. However, he did not recall if the Jap had told him how he happened to
have taken this pioture. He advised though that there was nothing suspicious
about any of ths photographs and said that they wero fust sconic viuws that any
tourist might take. Likewise ho auid there was nothin, suspicious in the Jap's
conversation. While he was travelin; alone, he seemed to associate with all the
other passengers, the majority of whom were Amoricans.
LiT LIn could not recall just when the Jap left the ship. He also
informed that the Jap never wrote dowm his name or address in his presence but
said it was very likely durin, the course of some conversation he montioned that
his address woul: bo in care of the Chiloan Consul in Hew York City. He was
positive that he had nover soon or heard from the Jap after he reached New York
City.
LeTäiDER stayed one month in the hited States in New York and Phila-
delphia, during whioh time he also made a short trip over the border to Canada.
Followiny that, ho continued to France, Germany and Italy, continuing his musical
career, and finally returned to Santiago, Chilo durin, tho first part of 1939.
一2-

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.90)
Source H determined from his recorde that ALFONSC LETELIER (LLONA) and
his wife traveled from Valparaiso, Chile to New York City on the 3s Santa Barbara.
This ship left Valparaiso on Karoh 3, 1938. Among the other passengers there was
found the name of YOsliITAnO AManO, a Japanese. AMaNO as the only Jap on board
the mbip. Be booked his passage in Valparaiso and traveled to Balbao. Canal Zene.
He ceoupied a first-class cabin by himself and wms travelin; on a round-trip tieket,
which ms issued in Panama on Hovember 1, 1937.
。3

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.95)
JOHN EDGARHOOVER
DIRECTOR
PECTO
Federal Bureau of Jumestigation
DC/R
T
Anited States Department of Justire
Mashington, D. U.
December 26, 1945
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
1943
Dear Freddie:
894.20210/1
As of possible interest to you, there is trans-
mitted herewith a copy of a monograph prepared concerning
"The Japanese in Latin America."
The information contained therein has been
mainly compiled from data based on reports received from
confidential and reliable sources.
A copy of this monograph has also been furnished
to Secretary of State James F. Byrnes and Assistant Secre-
tary of State Spruille Braden.
2-2645
Sincerely yours,
Enclosure
894.20210
Euc in Boom 219,
FC
JAN 4-1946
Jan. 23, 1976
-2685
Fβ1#2
By km
12/7/28

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
EDGARHOOVER
DIRECTOR
Jederal Bureau of Javestigation
2
United States Department of Justire
Washington, D. U.
December 26, 1945
S
894.20210/12-2645
REORIVED
JUN 3 0 1947
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
DIVISIUN F
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
Honorable Spruille Braden
Assistant Secretary of State
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
y dear Yr. Braden:
As of possible interest to you, there is transmitted
herewith a copy of a monograph prepared concerning "The
Japanese in Latin America."
The information contained therein has been mainly
compiled fron data based on reports received from confidential
and reliable sources.
Sincerely yours,
Aoover
CS
A
Enclosure
894.2
J301947
b00081 NN
DOK
B R
Aua
2
2-2645
6

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.93)
January 3, 1946
894.20210/12-2645
My dear Mr. Hoover:
Thank you for your letter of
December 26th enclosing a copy of a
mongraph prepared by the Federal Bureau
Jeesd us
of Investigation entitled, "The Japanese
Safe
in Latin Americas. I am glad to have
this and appreciate very much your sending
it to me.
With best regards,
Cordially yours,
PRUILLE BRADEN
Spruille Bradem
The Honorable
John Edgar Hoover,
C
Director,
S
Federal Bureau of Investigation,
Department of Justioe.
A
A-Br:JW
S
DOK
Bm Buym
Ana
-26×5

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
JOHN EDGAR HOOVER
DE
DIRECTOR
PE 
ECJD
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
DE/R
π
United States Department of Justice
JA
DIVISION OF
ERSONAL AND GONFIDENTIALNLUC
SECURITY
BY SPECIAL MESSENGER
SY FILE COPY
RL
Return immediately
Date:
or necessary action.
51946
To:
Ir. Frederick B-Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Department of State
John dgan Hoover, Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation
Subject:
NOBUO YATOH
894.20210/2-546
LIMA, PERU
As you will recall, an examination of the effects of Nobuo Yatoh,
a Japanese Agent who formerly visited several Latin American countries,
revealed an adaress book containing possible contacts in several of those
countries.
There is submitted herevith, as of possible interest, a memo-
randum received from a confidential and reliable source in Lima, Peru
identifying two of the individuals whose names were found in this address
book. It is noted, however, that there is no indication of activity
in Japanese affairs on the part of these individuals nor was there ever
any proof that they had served as espionage agents.
Enclosure
cc: Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
HH
FILED
Washington, D. C.
CC:
Assistant Chief of Staff
G-2, War Department
Washington, D. C.
894.20210
Attention: Reading Panel
Military Intelligence Service
S
Bnis
FOPVICTORY
 161
BUY
C
2.546
DECLASSIFIED
BONDS
STAMPS
AND
N~D280064
By 72 cy HARS, Date 8:24.28

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.95)
Jamuary 3, 194.6
Fe: NOBUO YTOH, at al.
Lima. Peru
The imformation eanteined in this repert was obtained through
investig tion sondueted by Souree C who has mumsrous acquaintamees in
the Japanese Colomy and whese information is believed to be reliable.
According to Source C, 
OLIBAN, a Japanese, identified the photograph
of YOsI0 IsHII as an individual he had mot in Callao stating that he was a
very prespereus businesmmen. A Jupanese barber alse identified the photo-
graph stating that the individual was a businessman and formerly an
industrialist in Comtral America. Waay other Japanese identified the
photegraph saying that they kmew the individual by sight but were not
personelly nequainted with him. This source stuted that he learned from
TORA SHIRAZAKA, photographer, that ISHII was the manager of a toy store
on Jirên Ayeaucho 786, Lima, whieh is presently being managed by SKIJIR0
TABATA. hen Japan wont to war with the United State: the Peruvian Govern
ment plaeed an embargo on ISHII's business completely abolishing it. SEIJIRO
TABATA was a clese friend of ISHII's and was relsted to him by marriag as
his wife as of the ISHII fmmily. Wre. SEIJIRO TABATA, who resides at
Calle Convantillo, San Pedro de Nolaseo 75l-D, Lima, identified the phetograph
of YosIo ISH1I but deolimed to furnish any information concerning him.
According to Sauree D, who is believed to be absolutely reliable,
YU2O ISHII was deperted from Peru to the United States on the SS FREDERICK C.
JOHNSON Jamuary 10, 1943. It is belioved that this individual is identieal
with YG:O or YOSHIO ISHII.
Soureo E, & United States Government official, advised thut
MARIO AIKI, proprietor of the photo raphie shop "FOTO ERESA", Calie Brazil
60, Moxieo, D.F., hae not been active in Jupaneee affairs for some time,
and all inquiries reletive to pessib c past or present espionage on the part
of thi individual have resultud negatively.
8

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.92)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Rd's
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
INCOMING TELEGRAM
GIO ARE
OIION - ()
ACTION:ARA
INFO:
B
A-B
MAY 1 3 1946
SA/M
FE
OIC
CS -P
N
Deportment of State
RP
1
TRC
AMCHIA . AAIR
PLAIN
CY
MAY 1946
DC/R
Sao Paulo
Dated May 7, 1946
Rec:d 8:58 p.m
894.20210/5-746
SECSTATE
148, Seventh
Japanose version
aperor's Proclamation received
today. (Re my telegram
144, May 6) Urge again that
motion picture shorts
f scenes or American occupation
be sent with greatest
'gency as well as photographs fcr
reproduction and publi
display.
CROSS
CS
PLAIN
人
f
Y
2
C
5
2
6
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT DETACH FROI WHITE COPY
RECORD
COPY
THE ATTACHED WHITE COPY OF A TELEGRAM
OR AIRGRAM HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY
FILE
TO REPLACE THE YELLO ACTION CCPY "HICH WAS NOT
RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY THE ACTION
NO
OFFICE.
THE COPY LUST BE RETURNED TC DC/R FOR
894.20210/5-746
FILING.
Confidertial
SEP 13 1946
FLAD
D

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
DIVISION OF
INFORMATION
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
COPY
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
INCOMING TELEGRAM
ACTION:ARA
8132
INFO:
A-B
SA/N
FR
OIC
CS -P
NCH
2700
RP
TRO
PLAIN
CY
DO/R
Sao Paulo
Dated May 7, 1946
Rec'd 8:58 p.m.
SECSTATE
148, Seventh
9.
Japanese version nperor's Proclamation received
—1
today. (Re my telegram L44, May 6) Urge again that
motion picture shorts
? scenes or American occupation
be sent with greatest
gency as well as photographs fo
reproduction and publi
display.
CROSS
CS
PLAIN
BMB
9
7
46

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
SECRET
No portion of this report may be reproduced, in part
or in whole, except by specific permission of the FBI
The Japanese
in
Latin America
Fw8
894.20210
2
2-2645
NOVEMBER
1945
NND 780069
8 29.18
SECRET FILE
TC/C/
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
J. Edgar Hoover, Director

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.99)
Introduction
The idea underlying the expansion of Japanese activities to for-
eign lands has a history of many centuries. Japanese sources claim It first
took root in the remote Ashikaga Period (1378-1565). it was suppressed, how-
ever, by the Tokugawa Shogunate (1602-1867), and it was not until shortly before
the Meiji Era that consideration was once more given to a positive foreign poi-
icy. During the years 1542 to 1638 the government of Japan established contact
with Western and other Asiatic countries. In September of 1613, 68 Japanese
were sent to Spain to familiarize themselves with Spanish culture. They also
traveled elsewhere in Europe and on returning to Japan submitted a report on
their impressions of Western civilization.
On the basis of their increased knowledge of the Western World, the
Japanese subsequently commenced to give thought to colonization of Latin Ameri-
ca. However, in I638 Japan formulated a policy of seclusion which was not bas-
Ically modified until the appearance of Commodore Perry in I853. During these
years of Isolation, Japan permitted only a very limited number of forelgners to
enter the country, such as Dutch and Chinese traders. Even these traders were
greatly restricted in their movements and were later ejected from Japan. The
natives in Japan were compelled under the threat of death to remain In their
country.
The treaties agreed upon as a result of Commodore Perry's visit work-
ed toward the end of Japan's unique policy of inclusion and excluslon, and laid
the foundation for Japanese commercial and cultural relations with the outside
world. Americans and Europeans were granted the right to live in Japan and con-
versely the Japanese were allowed to visit and reside in foreign countrles.
Japan did not devise any effective measures for carrying out the terms of these
treaties until legal provisions were enacted in I866, allowing certain classes
of Japanese, such as the gentry, to travel and study in Western Nations. At
this particular time, Japan was primarily interested in sending students and
other representatives abroad who would absorb all pertinent information in the
outside world, which could later be applied for the benefit of their own na-
tion. Later, action was taken relative to sending Japanese laborers to for-
eign nations and the establishment of Japanese colonies under centralized con-
trol of the mother country.
In I868 approximately 150 Japanese laborers emigrated to Hawaii where
the sugar plantation owners were suffering from a labor shortage. Labor troubles
developed and the Japanese charged that the "tyrannical" landowners in Hawall
were cruelly exploiting them. The Japanese Government protested and emigra-
tion of Japanese laborers was suspended. By I884, the difficulties had re-
solved themselves and more Japanese flowed into the Hawailan Islands and Into
the United States. A general wave of hostility began to arise against the
Japanese immigrants. This, in part, accounts for Japan's revising its expan-
sion pollcy, changing its direction from the United States and its territories
toward Latin America. This redirected migration began to gain momentum by i900.
However, large-scale planned migration to Latin America did not begin until
after World War No. I, being stimulated by the passage in the United States of
the Exclusion Law of 1924, which is reported to be one of the early causes of
friction between this country and Japan. Added to this was the cordial wel-
come given the Japanese laborers at first in most Latin American countries.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 1.00)
During the last decade of the Nineteenth Century and the first dec-
ade of the Twentieth Century, the character of the Japanese migration to
Latin America was marked more by chance than by direction. As a result,
mostly single men arrived and became scattered in different areas, according to
the demand for their services. Later, this situation was entirely changed.
The Japanese Government became keenly interested in colonization and carefully
drew up plans for a systematic method of handling Japanese migration to Latin
America. Propaganda was disseminated in Japan pointing out the desirability
of going to Latin America. Emigrants were solicited. They were required to
pass a physical examination; were given a course of instructions which would
assist them in the country to which they were going, and finally the labor em-
igrants were furnished passage to new lands. Once there, representatives of
the Japanese Government would still look after them and facilitate their ad-
justment.
The Japanese Government subsidized shipping companies which trans-
ported Japanese to Latin America. It also subsidized Japanese business com-
panies throughout the continent, which in turn sought to encourage immigrants
and directed, regulated and expanded Japanese colonies.
The colonies were organized on a highly centralized basis, control-
led both directly and indirectly from Japan through shipping companies, Japa-
nese business firms in Latin America, embassies and the effective use of
Japanese organizations and language schools, which were unified by strong reli-
gious loyalties. Patriotism to Japan was successfully fostered. The large
colonies became in a sense a state within a state; an unassimilated minority
living as an isolated entity, separated from the native population and devel-
oped along oriental lines fundamentally different from the native way of life.
For the most part, the average Japanese were engaged in agriculture or small
business.
The Japanese in Latin America have become important to the United
States for four reasons, namely, political, economic, social and military.
Where large Japanese colonies exist, for example in Brazil, Peru and
Mexico, prosperous Japanese have been known to attempt to bribe government of-
ficials or otherwise influence them to act in a manner favorable to the Japa-
nese, both in Latin America and in Japan. In some instances, they havein-
dicated interest in influencing the foreign policy of the nation in which
they reside so that it would be in accord with the point of view of the
Japanese Foreign Office. In the economic sphere, particularly in Brazil,
Japanese colonists have extended considerable control over some phases of agri-
culture. In doing this they have contributed to what was before the war a prom-
ising trade relationship with the mother country. For the most part manufac-
tured articles were imported from Japan and raw products were exported to it.
There is also some evidence reflect ing that Japan purchased strategic war mate-
rials in Latin America, some of which were reshipped to Germany. Socially,
through the use of cultural institutions, newspapers, public lectures and ra-
dio programs, the Japanese have attempted to favorably interpret their history
and convince the natives of their intrinsic worth to Latin America and of the
desirability of building closer and more permanent social ties between the na-
tives and themselves. From the military aspect, the Japanese were considered
to be a threat to the security of Brazil and Chile in particular, as the
coasts of these nations were open to invasion possibilities had Japan been
victorious on sea. Backed by the power of the Japanese colonies in these coun-
tries, an invasion would have been much easier and would have stood far greater
chances of success. In addition to this, Latin America has been an excellent
area for the operation of the Japanese Intelligence System in time of peace
where it gathered data both on Latin America and on the United States.

=== Page 62 === (confidence 1.00)
After the outbreak of the war, the Japanese in Latin America were
noticeably quiet and inactive. They have lost most of their economic and
political gains. Always considered undesirable socially, they are now viewed,
generally speaking, with hostility. with the commencement of. the war and the
closing of the Japanese embassies and consulates, their intelligence system
collapsed at once. Though they have throughout the war been a potential source
of danger to the United Nations, their overt acts were few and relatively
ineffective.
The war is now over but many phases of the Japanese problem in the
southern republics are very much alive. The facts presented here, though
secured and recorded during the period of warfare are therefore believed to
still possess current value. The Japanese problem remains basically unchanged
since the end of the war. In view of this situation these data may serve to
clarify the Japanese question in Latin America and its relationship to the
United States.
This monograph, written immediately prior to the surrender of Japan,
summarizes available information on the Japanese in Latin America, treating
such topics as historical development, population, social and political
penetration, economic growth, subversive activities and the means taken by
Latin American countries to control the Japanese living within their bound-
aries. The development of these topics, country by country, will be presented
against a brief background of the Japanese nation, migration to Latin America,
organizations, religious influence, schools and the Japanese espionage pattern.
November, 1945

=== Page 63 === (confidence 1.00)
THE JAPANESE IN LATIN AMERICA
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER I - JAPAN
Physical Background
Race
Population
Culture
一
Education
2
Religion
2
Economics
2
Government
3
Political Evolution
3
Background
3
World Outlook
3
Chinese Influence
4
4
Isolation
Westernization
4
Liberalism
5
Military Nationalism
6
Military Dictatorship
6
Military Imperialism
6
The Great Crusade
7
CHAPTER 2 - MIGRATION AND ORGANIZATIONS
13
Background
13
Organization
15
Steamship Companies
17
Immigration Restrictions
17
Trade and Migrations
17
19
Settlements
Brazil and Peru
20
20
Brazil
Peru
21
Government Attitude
21
21
Japanese Organizations
Background
21
Economic Groups
25
Nationalistic and Patriotic Associations
26

=== Page 64 === (confidence 1.00)
CHAPTER 3 - RELIGION AND LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
28
Japanese Religions and Latin America
28
Background
28
Shinto Cult
29
State Shinto
29
Sectarian Shinto
30
Buddhism
30
Language Schools
30
Background
30
Justification
32
Alienating Influences
32
CHAPTER 4 - ESPIONAGE PATTERN
35
Meaning and Scope
35
Background
35
Modern Perspective
36
General Methods
37
Military Intelligence
37
Naval Intelligence
38
Commercial Intelligence
38
Amateur Intelligence
39
Diplomatic Intelligence
39
40
Specific Techniques
Specific Objectives
40
Japanese-Nazi Collaboration
40
Intelligence Communications
40
CHAPTER 5 - MEXICO
43
Background
43
Population
43
Immigration
43
Location
43
Social Penetration
43
Political Penetration
43
Official Japanese Representation
44
Organizations
44
Commerce
45
Subversive Activities
45
Espionage
47
Japanese Propaganda
47
Japanese-Nazi Collaboration
48
Smuggling
48
Prominent Japanese
49

=== Page 65 === (confidence 1.00)
Government Control
53
CHAPTER 6 - CENTRAL AMERICA
55
GUATEMALA
55
Background
55
Population and Location
55
Social and Political Penetration
55
Commerce
55
Subversive Activities
55
Government Control
57
EL SALVADOR
57
Background
57
Population and Location
57
Social and Political Penetration
57
Commerce
57
Subversive Activities
57
Government Control
57
HONDURAS
57
Background
57
Population and Location
57
Social and Political Penetration
57
Commerce
58
Subversive Activities
58
Government Control
58
NICARAGUA
58
Background
58
Population and Location
58
Sccial and Political Penetration
58
Commerce
58
Subversive Activities
58
Government Control
58
COSTA RICA
60
Background
60
Population and Location
60
Social and Political Penetration
60
Commerce.
60
Governmental Control
61
"Alert" Incident
6i
PANAMA
61
Background
61
Population and Location
61
Social and Political Penetration
61

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Commerce
.61
Subversive Activities
61
Government Control
62
CHAPTER 7 - CARRIBEAN AREA
64
CUBA
64
Background
64
Population and Location
64
Social and Political Penetration
84
Commerce
84
Subversive Activities
84
Yamanoha Group
64
Sol Naciente
64
La Kimona
84
Camaguey
84
Organizations
64
Good-Will Cruisers
66
War Declaration
66
Esplonage
68
Government Control
88
HAITI
68
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
69
Background
69
Population ahd Location
69
Social and Political Penetration
89
Commerce
89
Subversive Activities
69
Governmental Control
69
CHAPTER 8 - STATES OF NORTHERN SOUTH AMERICA
70
COLOMBIA
70
Background
70
Population and Location
70
Social and Political Penetration
70
Commerce
70
Subversive Activities
72
Prominent Japanese
74
The Spanish Legation
75
Governmental Control
75
VENEZUELA
76
Background
76
Population and Location
76
Social and Political Penetration
76

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Subversive Activities
78
Prominent Leaders
78
Governmental Control
79
ECUADOR.
79
Background
79
Population and Location
79
Social and Political Penetration
80
Commerce
80
Subversive Activities
80
Japanese-Nazi Collaboration
82
Prominent Leaders
82
Japanese-Ecuadorian Cooperation
82
Governmental Control
82
CHAPTER 9 - PERU AND BOLIVIA
84
PERU.
84
Background
84
Population
84
Origins
84
Immigration
84
Location
86
Social Penetration
86
Political Penetration
88
Japanese Societies
88
Commerce
90
Occupations
92
Subversive Activities
92
Propaganda
95
Espionage
96
Governmental Control
96
"South America" by Seizo Mogami
96
Immigration
98
General Activities
98
Industry
99
The Attack on the Stores
99
BOLIVIA
99
Background
99
Population and Location
99
Social and Political Penetration
99
Commerce
101
Commercial Firms
101
Subversive Activities
101

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.99)
Japonese Society
101
Prominent Leaders
101
Governmental Control
104
CHAPTER IO - CHILE
105
Background.
105
Populatlon and Locatlon
105
Social and Political Penetration
105
105
Commerce
Campanla Chllena Orlental
107
Mitsubishl
108
Commercial Trade Agency
109
Commercial Talbo
109
Casa Itoh
109
Socledad Agricola Caupolican
110
Subversive Activitles
111
Purchase of Maps
Japanese-Chllean Collaboration
112
Esplonage
113
113
Propaganda
Japsa Case
118
Governmental Control
117
Repatriation
117
Relegation
117
CHAPTER II - ARGENTINA, PARAGUAY, URUGUAY
118
ARGENTINA
118
Background
118
Population and Location
118
Social and Political Penetration
118
Diplomatic Relations
118
Commerce
120
Associations
122
Subversive Activities
124
Propaganda
125
Espionage
126
News Correspondents
131
Black Dragon Society
133
Japanese Schools
133
Government Control
134
"South America" by Seizo Mogami
135
Agriculture
135
General Activities
135

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
PARAGUAY
136
Background
138
Population and Location
136
Social and Political Penetration
136
Commerce
136
Subversive Activities
136
Governmental Control
139
URUGUAY
139
Background
139
Population and Location
139
Social and Political Penetration
139
Commerce
139
Subversive Activities
139
Governmental Control
140
CHAPTER 12 - BRAZIL
143
Background
143
Population and Location
143
Immigration Methods
145
Brazil's Attitude
146
Colonization
147
Social Penetration
149
Political Penetration
150
Diplomatic Representation
150
Commerce
150
Subversive Activities
153
Sabotage
154
Organizations
155
Espionage
157
Japsa Case
158
Smuggling
159
Military Possibilities
159
Governmental Control
160
"South America" by Seizo Mogami
161
Anti-Japanese Immigration Measures
161
Industry
162
Activities of Japanese Firms
163
APPENDIX I
- DECLARATION OF WAR BY JAPAN
164
APPENDIX II - PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT'S MESSAGE TO CONGRESS
CALLING FOR A DECLARATION OF WAR ON JAPAN .. 184
APPENDIX 11I - THE DECLARATION OF A STATE OF WAR WITH JAPAN .. 165

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.91)
APPENDIX IV - ULTIMATUM TO JAPAN
APPENDIX V - JAPAN'S ACCEPTANCE AND SURRENDER
.….168

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
CHARTS AND ILLUSTRATIONS
Geographical Location of Japan
Frontispiece
Outline History of Japan ....
8, 9, 10, 11
Nippon Yusen Kaisha (N.Y.K.)
12
Japanese Nationals Living Abroad
14
Japanese Departures to Latin America .
15
Japanese Residing in North and South America
16
Occupations of Japanese in South America
17
Trade Agreements ..
18
Japanese Trade with South America
19
Japanese Trade wi th Principal Latin American Countries
20
Japanese Residing Abroad.
21
Pre-War Organization of a Japanese Community
23
42
Republic of Mexico.
Japanese Subversive Activities-Mexico
46
56
Central America
Caribbean Area.
63
Japanese Collaboration with Axis in Cuba
65
Japanese Espionage and Propaganda-Cuba
67
Colombia Political Divisions
71
Republic of Venezuela.
77
Republic of Ecuador .
81
Republic of Peru-Area Comparison
85
Japanese-Peruvian Commerce.
91
Occupations of Japanese Residents of Peru
.93, 94
Republic of Bolivia-Area Comparison
100
Republic of Bolivia-Foreign Population
102
Republic of Chile-Area Comparison
106
Republic of Argentina ..
119
Republic of Argentina-Strategic Location
121
Republic of Argentina-Principal Cities
123
Japanese Intelligence Service-Argentina
127
Japsa Espionage Case-Argentina.
129
Distribution of Japanese Nationals-Argentina
132
Republic of Paraguay
137
Area Comparison-Paraguay
138
Republic of Uruguay
141
Republic of Brazil
142

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
Immigrants to Brazil
143
Comparison of Japanese Residents in Brazil, Peru and the
World..
143
Japanese Land Holdings, Sao Paulo, Brazil
144
Japanese Residents (Males and Females) Brazil and Peru
145
Republic of Brazil-Area Comparison
146
Republic of Brazil-Axis Population
148
UItimatum to Japan - APPENDIX IV
166,167
Japan's Acceptance and Surrender - Appendix V ..
168,169

=== Page 73 === (confidence 1.00)
PHOTOGRAPHS
Third Sunday Club
22
Ichitaro Morimoto
24
Meeting of Federation of Japanese Associations
25
Japanese Farmland
26
Japanese Homes
28
Okinawan Society
27
Japanese Primary School Pupils
31
Japanese School
32
Japanese Diplomats
36
Pacific Trading Company of Japan
39
Japanese Home
44
Japanese Farmers.
45
Japanese Farm Laborers
53
Members of Economic Mission of Costa Rica
59
Japanese Settlement
70
The "Plaza" of Corinto
70
A Japanese Colonist
73
Japanese Travel Permits
75
Japanese Farm Laborers
78
Japanese Farmland
78
Japanese of Ecuador
79
Japanese School
86
Kazuki Tateishi
89
Japanese Legation
89
Pacific Trading Company of Japan
90
Japanese Ships Loading Copper
92
Commemoration of Peruvian National Holiday
95
Japanese Owned Cotton Awaiting Shipment to Japan
96
Japanese Rubber Factory....
96
Advertising Signs of Japanese Stores
97
Japanese Lumber Mill
97
Unloading Japanese Goods
98
JapaneseFarmland
101
Farm Buildings of the Japanese
103
Compania Chilena Oriental Affiliates
107
Compania Chilena Oriental
108
Kiyoshi Ichikawa
108

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
Teruo Miyake .
108
Jiro Matsumoto
108
KIchImatsu Shinya
109
Danosuke Nokogawa
109
Members of Companla Comerclal Talbo
110
Tatsuo Mizokoshi
111
Funkunosuke Nomura .....
111
Jullo Kinjlro Matsumoto .....
112
Kyutaro Tsunekawa
112
Jorge Yamamoto
112
Sadoyoshl Nakayama
114
Susumu MiyazakI
115
Kozaburo Tada ....
115
Alberto Veloz Santa Cruz
118
Propaganda Material
152-153-154-155-158-157-182
Japanese Religlous Shrine
159-181
Equlpment Used In Japanese Sports
180
Poster Showing Naval Strength of Japan, 1940
183

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.95)
Geographical Location of Japan
Otha
U.
S.
S.
R.
Paramushiro
KURILE
IS.
Uruppu
Khaborovsk
MANCHUKUO
Hakodate
Vladivostok
Tokyo
Pacific
BONIN
Shanghe
Hankow
CHINA
OKINAWA
Tuihoku
Chungking
FORMOSA
MARIANA
IS.
715 6
Hong Kong
Philippine
Laong
PHILIPPINES
N
South
(China
Sea
BURMA
S
Sca
THAILAND
à
1051
Ocean
INDO. CHINA
025 
Biak
Brunei
NEW
的
GUINEA
Indian
MALAY
STATES
BORNEO
Singapore
Ocean
SUMATRA
RFBI
E
S
AUSTRALIA

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
Page19
THE JAPANESE IN LATIN AMERICA
Chapter 1
JAPAN
The most recent figures indicate that Japan
PHYSICAL BACKGROUND
has a population of over 70,000,000. The
density of this population to the square mile
Japan is composed of a group of islands.
is about ten times as great as it is in the
The four largest are Honshu, Kyushu, Hokkaido
United States.
and Shikoku. These is lands are located in the
Japan has not always been so heavily
North Temperate Zone, spreading from approxi-
populated. For some time prior to the opening
mate1y 30 degrees to 18 degrees north lati tude
of une country by Commodore Perry during the
necr the coast of Asia. The land area of Japan
middle of the 19th century, the population had
proper is estimated to be 117,000 square miles.
remained more or less constant at an estimated
The Japanese Empire includes additional
f'igure of 28,000,000. Since that time, the
territories such as Korea, Formosa and other
population has rapidly increased. The steady
possesstons comprising an extensive empire
growth in Japan's population during the past
expandin: ihrongh the Orient in many different
65 years has had a direct bearing on its
direetions.
expansion, policy formation and development as
The Japanese is lands are mounta inous and
a world power. The overpopulation of these
conta in much sernic beanty. As they are related
islands contributed to the pursuing of an
to volcanic ranges, these islands are often
imperialistic program. Colonies in Asia and in
oxposed to ruinous earthquakes. Typhoons are
the Western Hemishpere served a twofold purpose.
also common in the scuthern portion. The
They relieved the pressure of population in
climate is generally mild, with severe winters
Japan proper and also served to supply the
peing xperienced in the northern section of
mother country with badly needed imports which
Hokkaido. Mineral resources are not sufficient
had an important bearing on the growing ins-
tor Japan's needs, gold, lead, zinc, coal, oil,
trialization of the nation.
copper and iron ore exist but not in abundance.
Much of the land is covered by forests. There
CULTURE
is a sufficiency of rainfall in Japan which
As previously indicated, the Japanese race
contributes considerably to the richness of the
has been relatively free from a mixture of other
soil. However, less than 20 per cent of the
racial strains. No foreign peoples have ever
complete area is cultivable because of the
overpowered their islands or subjected them
mountains and the thickly-forested sections.
to modes of life other than those of their own
RACE
choosing. In spite of their isloated position,
however, their culture is not, in the true
Anthropologists maintain that the Japanese
sense, original and unique with them. To a
race is of a Mongolian origin, having probably
considerable extent it is a borrowed culture.
migrated from Siberia at some time in the dim
Their religion, literature, arts and sciences
past to the islands now known as Japan. Their
have come to them from outside sources. Some
racial stock subsequently became blended with
flowed into Japan from China, Korea and other
Malayan elements. As a result of their insular
parts of As ia, some from Europe and the Americas.
pesition, there has been less intermingling of
The Japanese proved themselves to be effective
races than there was among people living in
assimilators of these derivative strains of
proximity to each other as in Europe. This
culture which were gradually woven into a
appears to have created unity among the Japanese
Japanese pattern of national conduct.
which they otherwise might not enjoy.
One of the most vital elements of Japanese
In physical appearance the Japanese are
culture is the family life. It is inflexible
relatively small with slant eyes and a yellow
and firmly formed along definite unchanging
skin. Scient ists of our Western hemisphere
traditional lines of activity. The male is the
were inclined to regard the Japanese as physica1
undisputed head of the family unit and rules
inferiors and unimpressive as a worldcon-
with a firm hand. Women are expected to be
quering people. However, the effective con-
meek and relatively enslaved. The industrial-
duct of the Japanese in their war against
ization of Japan has probably rendered their
China in 1894 and their victory over Russia
position more dependent and undesirable than
in 1905, plus the display of their present
before.
durable fighting qualities, have made necessary
The Japanese are educated to be extremely
a revision of this outmoded opinion.
courteous and genteel in human relations. They
POPULATION
have displayed delicate tastes for the cultiva-
tion and appreciation of flowers and gardens.
For a great world power, Japan has a very
Their creative work in some phrases of art has
small area, but this area is densely populated.
won the admiration of western artists and has
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 2
influenced tneir ow. work. Fine libraries
and imperialism, serving as a vehiole for
exist throughout the urban areas. The Japanese
political propaganda as well as a religion. Its
are eager students, exploring the fieids of
shrines and olergy are state-supported. This
literature, art, social sciences and natural
religion comes under the direction of the
scienceg. They have been partioularly anxious
Department of Home Affairs, whereas all other
in recent years to develop knowledge useful
religione are subjeot to the control of the
to them in furthering industrialism. This
Department of Eduoation.
attitude represents a change in emphasis, for
Christianity was firet introduced to the
prior to our modern age Japanese oulture was
Japanese by the Jesuit Order during the middle
more academic and less practical. Poetry, drama,
of the 1oth century. No notable numerical
essays and short stores were preferred to the
successes have been achieved but it is believed
soiences. Their cul ture then served a feudal
that Christianity has exeroised an influence
society protected by an ineffective military
in Japan out of proportion to its numerical
caste which treated the masses cruelly. Today
strength. Mohammedanism likewise has not
Japanese thought shows positive signs of
flourished in Japan.
consideration given to utility value as a means
In 1940, Japan passed a Religious Organ-
of shaping its changing oulture to fit into the
izations law, designed to bring different
configuration of an industrial, materialistic,
religions more clomely under the supervision
scientific age. At the same time, it seeks to
of the government. One of its stipulations
keep basically unchanged the concopts underlying
was the refusal to parmit religions to receive
the national life, purposes and aspirations
foreign aid and the insistence that their
of its people. In pursuing this objective,
official leaders be of Japanese ancestry.
the Japanese scholars have been hindered during
Protestant denominations were asked to merge
the past decade by the restrictive vision of
into one unit forming a Japanese Christian
the militarists, with a subsequent lowering
church severed from any outside directing
of the intellectual standards of the nation.
influence. As a result of these mergers, the
government was better able to use religion as
EDUCATION
an instrument of domestic and foreign policy.
During the past 30 years, Japan has made
More details will be furnished on this
rapid progress in education. Illiteracy is
subject in another section as it relates to
now almost eliminated from its society. There
Japanese activities in Latin America.
are about 50,000 scho ols in Japan serving over
ECONOMICS
15, 00,000 students. Before the war, the public
educational system was steadily expanding and
About 50 per cent of the Japanese earn their
was considered to be far superior to any other
living through agricultural pursuits although
oriental educational program. In 1941, provi-
less than 20 per cent of the land is cultivable.
sions were made for establishing compulsory
Approximately 33 per cent own their farms while
education for children up to the age of 14 years.
the others are share-croppers and tenant farmers.
Due to the war, it is believed that this idea
The farms are quite small and are usually not
has not been applied and the six years of
equipped with modern facilities. Fifty per
compulsory schooling is still in effect. The
cent of the cultivable land is used in growing
schcols provide primary, intermediate, technical
rice while the remainder is taken up with
and professional education. At the apex of the
producing other grains, fruit and vegetables.
system are six important universities.
The most profitable crop for export purposes
The Japanese schools not only instruct
is the silkworm output amounting to about 79
s tudents in general knowledge and in specific
per cent of the world's tota] supply. Some
skills, but alsp in an over-all philosophy of
cotton, rubber, wool and ccnsiderable wood
life. In view of this situation, Japanese
pulp are produced. Though much of the land
education has the opportunity and the means
is forested, relatively little use is made of
of shaping the minds of the students to fit
it. As a result of this inadequate agricultural
the economic, political and social needs and
development, Japan is forced to resort to the
perspectives of the nation. with the approach
sea as a means of augmenting her food supply.
of the present world conflict, Japanese educa-
In this enterprise, the nation has been very
tion turned more and more to political indoc-
successful and between 25 and 33 per cent of
trination, which has undoubtedly impaired the
the fisheries in the world are owned and
quality of the instruction and lowered standards.
operated by the Japanese.
Industrialism has only a 70-year history,
RELIGION
but in that brief time great progress has been
The great majority of Japanese people
made, particularly during the last decade.
embrace the doctrines of either Buddhism or
Japan occupies a position in this field equal
Shintolsm. Both of these religions are divided
in importance to those of many European nations.
into different sects. Some Japanese absorb the
From minor indus tries, such as textiles, Japan
elements of both religions. The Buddhist sect
has grown into the sphere of major indus tries,
Nichiren believes that Japanese must serve as
turning out heavy machinery and siailar pro-
an instrument to carry their religion through-
ducts. The industrial revolution came late
out the world. In view of this opinion, some
to Japan, but its progress has been so rapid
Buddhis ts are extremely nationalistic. National
that it is now abreast of many nations which
Shintoism is linked directly to nationa lism
experienced the same revolution in the 18th
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 3
century. Before the war, access to raw aterials
this day and cons titute the foundation of the
had been satisfactory. Profits were large,
national government of Japan, with, of course,
labor plentiful and cheap.
astute additiors and modifications to suit the
The financial system of Japan is consid-
needs of the government and rapidly developing
erably different from the systems prevail-
people, and have provided a fictitious racial
ing in other countries. It is an oligarchy
homogeneity and superiority long antedating
built around four gigantic family combines
German racial theories.
of Sumitomo, Mitsui, Yasuda and Mitsubishi.
The Japanese Empire according to legendary
These trusts are not only interwoven through-
account, was founded about 660 B. C. when the
out the economic life of Japan but permeate
first Empe ror, Jimmu-Tenno, the "Divinely Brave
the political and social spheres as well,
Emperor" ascended the throne after es tablishing
having influence over national and international
himself in Yamato, a former 3 tate in central
policies.
Japan. Traditionally, the Emperor Jimmu was
The Merchant Marine of Japan in 1941 was
fifth in descent from the Sun Goddess, who
one of the world's largest. As a result of
ordered her grandson to descend upon Oyashima
extensive devel opment in this field, Japan
(Japan) and found an empire. He was invested
was able to maintain a prominent place in
with the three Imperial regalia - the sword,
foreign trade, though it weakened somewhat in
mirror and jewel - devices which may be seen in
the late 1930's. Because of her isolated is-
Shinto temples and rituals - and was instructed,
land position, it became a matter of necessity
"the land shall be ruled hereditarily by my
for Japan to build up a shipping fleet to carry
descendants."
exports and imports needed to maintain the
World Outlook
nation's economy.
GOVERNMENT
The Emperor Jimmu, on ascending the throne,
is said to have declared his intention to "make
Under normal conditions Japan enjoys a
the world one household," an ideal which pur-
constitutional monarchy largely under oligar-
portedly animates the Japanese nation. This
chical control. It is an outgrowth of feudalism
historical policy, "Hakko Ichiu," literally,
The military clique is currently in power. The
"eignt directions, one world," symbolizing the
form of the modern Japanese Government dates
domination of the world by Japan has been con-
back to 1867, when basic changes were made to-
stantly stressed by Japan's leaders as the
ward centralization. In 1889 a cons titution
foundation of their Greater East Asia Co-
was written incorporating these transitions.
prosperity Sphere, thereby tying into this
The emperor, theoretically, was es tablished as
modern political device the "divine" expressions
an absolute power, having both political and
of the Sun Goddess and their "Manifest Destiny."
religious significance. Actually, however, he
A reference to this myth was made by Premier
has been informally limited by the recommenda-
Tojo as late as January 28, 1943, in his radio
tions of his advisers in various high-ranking
broadcast of that Jate, and in the past similar
government positions.
allusions were made by other Japanese leaders
Some recognition is given to principles of
and in authoritative Japanese publications. It
representation in that the lower house is
even appears in the Imperial Rescript declaring
elected by the people. Univers al suffrage
war on the United States and Britain as "the
for males was granted in 1925. Today, however,
task bequeathed by our forefathers," a sophistry
the executive branch of the government is the
apparently directed to the Japanese people. It
controlling factor in the political life of
is expressed in the often reiterated "Kodo" or
the nation.
"Way of the Emperor," an innovation cqmbining
the precepts of "Shinto," the "Way of the Gods";
POLITICAL EVOLUTION
"Bushido," the "way of the Warrior" and "Yamato
Background
Damashii," the "Japanese Spirit," adopted to
rationalize their nationalism and militarism and
Japanism, if the totalitarian ideology of
bring them within their older beliefs.
Japan may be so termed, is far older and domi-
The story of Japan's creation, like other
nates more completely the Japanese mind and
myths, rapidly loses its unity with many omis-
nation than its more recent European counter-
sions and incons istencies but is accepted by the
parts, Nazism and Fascism, have in the countries
Japanese as true, particularly those legends
of their origin. It may be partly expressed in
pertaining to the Emperors "of lineage unbroken
their concept of the "Manifest Destiny" of Japan
for ages eternal" from Jimmu-Tenno in 660 B.C.
reaching beyond the dawn of their his tory, if
downwards. These myths and traditions were
the interpretations of their nationalist his-
elaborated upon and made official in the "Kojiki"
torians are considered correct. Out of the fog
and the "Nihongi," outlines of history dating
of Japanese mytnology there survived the stories
from the eighth century A. D. Upon these vague
of the ancient Japanese concerning the creation
legends the Japanese have proclaimed themselves
of their insular world and their emergence as a
a superior, "Divinely appointed" race and have
Japanese people, the Yamato race, into history
twisted their purported descent from the Sun
as a nation governed by a supreme ruler, a
Goddess and therefore superior origins into a
"Manifest God," who was at once the head of the
modern ideology. The real history of Japan,
Japanese as a large family, the Emperor and the
exclusive of these legends, begins in 532 A.D.
God. These tales and beliefs have persisted to
rather than the thousand years before to which
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 4
the Japanese like to refer so their civilization
characterized by the complete withdrawal from
may be compared to that of the Chinese in
contact with the outside world. It is important
antiquity. Recorded history began with the
to Japanese history as it provides the founda-
introduction of Buddhism.
tion of their xenophobia, a dislAke of foreign-
ers which continues to manifest itself to this
Chinese Influence
day.
Buddhism was brought into Japan in the sixth
The Tokugawa was a totalitarian military
and seventh centuries by Chinese missionaries
government. Although its nominal head was the
who carried with them Chinese institutions,
Emperor, the real power was exercised by the
science and a written language. Soon after,
Shogun. The Daimyo, or feudal lords, exercised
absolute power within their own provinces
sweeping political changes were made and in
through samurai, or warriors, who owed alleg-
645 A.D. the governmental system was remodeled
iance to them. The Daimyo in turn owed their
largely on the government and institutions of
allegiance to the Shogun, not the Emporer. The
China. A centralized bureaucratic plan with
higher offices of the government were then
ministers responsible to the sovereign was
directed by councils rather than individuals, a
ins talled. From the seventh to the thirteenth
heritage of their family system found in their
centuries a reaction set in against the domina-
local and national governments of today as well
tion of Chinese influence and there was an
as in their minor activities, organizations and
attempt to create a purely Japanese government,
businesses. Informers to report political
art and cul ture. At this time the Shingon sect
dissent, the precursors of the modern Japanese
was brought in which reconciled Buddhism with
"thouglt police," were utilized to suppress
the native cult of Shinto, the beginning of the
opposition. In this period the laws were broad
so-called "daible aspect Buddhism." During this
and cons idered as ethical concepts rather
period Buddhism was "finally and fully natural-
than specific statutes. This cnaracteristic is
ized on Japanese soil" by the founding of the
noted in present Japanese law and is particular-
Nichiren, Jodo and Shin Sects.
ly obvious in the vague and inclusive Imperial
In the twelfth century, Japan was feudalized
Rescripts. The laws are, as a rule, very gen-
politically and the real master of the Empire
eral with the details filled in by the depart-
was the Lord with the strongest army who became
ment charged with their enforcement.
the "Shogun," li terally, "generalissimo,"
For some time before the arrival of Commo-
comparable to the "Imperator" of early Rome.
dore Perry, there was a rising conflict between
The Mikado was retained as the theoretical head
different factions of Japanese: the native
of the state and as the descendant of the Sun
religion, Shinto, against the foreign religion,
Goddess but during this period the Emperors were
Buddhism; Japanese literature against Chinese
usually discarded upon reaching adolescence and
literature; and the dynasty of the Mikados
replaced by another infant in arms. From then
against the rule of the Shoguns. The appear-
on the Japanese government was broken by inter-
ance of the American ships provided an oppor-
necine wars and conflicts extending even to the
tunity for the reactionaries to seize the
establishment of two Emperors each supported by
government. The Shoguns allowed entry to
different feudal chiefs.
foreigners and concluded treaties of amity and
Isolation
commercial treaties with the United States and
other countries. This action presented ample
In 1542 the Portuguese and Spanish came to
opportunity for the loyalists to take advantage
Japan and brought with them the Christian
of the Shogunate government and res tore the
religion which added to the discord then exist-
Mikado to sovereign authority. The view of
ing in the country. In the latter part of the
these reactionaries was that "the land of the
sixteenth century the Tokugawa family installed
Gods" should not be polluted by outsiders and
themselves as Shoguns. These Shoguns tried to
that the "barbarians" should be expelled at all
exterminate all the believers in the Catholic
hazards. However, upon seizing power the forces
faith, purportedly to gain peace in internal
who got control of the Mikado continued the
affairs and prevent complications with the
policy of trading with the world al though they
Spanish and Portuguese. In 1612 the christian
had gained power by advocating continued
clergy were expelled and in 1636 all Japanese
seclusion.
were prohibited from going abroad and no Japa-
Westernization
nese were allowed to return from abroad. Follow-
ing the rebellion of Christian believers in
The Meiji Restoration marks the beginning of
1637, the Shogunate prohibited the entry of
another cycle in Japan's periodical upheavals:
foreigners with the exception of Hollanders who
it marks the turning point toward westernization
were allowed to trade at Nagasaki under strict
and the beginning of the industrial revolution
supervision.
and the modern era in Japan. The feudal system
This policy of exclusion and inclusion was
was abruptly ended and a centralized bureaucracy
s trictly adhered to until the ccnclusion of
was set up in 1871. Buddhism was disestablished
treaties of amity between the United States and
and its place taken by the Shinto Cult. Europe-
Japan in 1855, following the appearance df
anism came into vogue and Western scientific
Commodore Perry in 1853. This period, the
knowledge and technical achievement were assimi-
Tokugawa, extending from 1615 to 1868 was one
lated in much the same manner in which the
of national consolidation as a feuda l state
Japanese had absorbed Chinese civilization more
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 5
than a thousand years before. In the meantime
samurai, it appeared that Japan was being recon-
there were a nuzber of uprisings and rebellions
stituted along liberal lines. However, this
which were suppressed.
constitution, modeled after that prepared by
According to Japanese sources, the failure
Bismarck for the Hohenzollern Monarchy, ade
of protracted negotiations for treaty revisions
possible rule by groups or cliques with the army
in 1887 caused a strong reaction to set in
in a key position.
against foreigners and foreign influences and
For some time it appeared that Liberalism
the pendulum began to swing against westerniza-
would gain ground but this was checked by the
tion, much as it had against the Chinese civili-
arrest and execution of alleged socialists for
zation of an older day. However, many social
having piotted to blow up the Emperor's train.
reforms were brought about and many institutions,
A Japanese source stated that "the extraordinary
cop1ed from westerners, were developed in Japan.
growth of capitalism after the Russian war
A military sys tem modeled af'ter that of Europe
stimulated all the more the propagation of
was introduced in 1872 and in 1889 a cons titu-
socialist thoughts, culminating in the anarchist-
tion was promulgated.
socialist plot of 1910," and that in spite of
Commenting on the adoption of the Wes tern
rigid surveillance the establishment of the
constitution, Tatsuo Kawai, sjokesman for the
Soviet brought on unprecedented activity of
Japanese Foreign office in 1937, later head of
socialists under the banner of "class warfare."
the Information Bureau of the Foreign Office,
It was said that vigorous anti-socialist move-
then Minister at Large and subsequently Minister
ments were started to counter every imported
socialistic doctrine. This same propagandist
to Australia, stated:
"The first few years of the Meiji era saw
alleged that "the Manchurian Incident cleared
the reactionary forces of an ill-advised conser-
the air of tte se conflicting doctrines, revealing
vatism opposed to equally ill-advised but power-
Japan's real s cul which had been submerged for
ful forces in favour of Westernization. The
years" as the doctrines were not strong enough
rift grew wider as the conservatives formed a
to contaminate "the virile bloodof the Japanese."
common front with the German school of national-
Immediately following the world war liberal
ism to confront those who advocatec political
movements developed in Japin and political
reform in the direction of liberty and enfran-
parties became significant forces in the govern-
chis ement, and finally divided the nation into
ment. Party government first came into exist
two camps, nationalism on the one hand and
ence in Japan immediately prior to the suspen-
democracy on the other. In February, 1889, the
sion of the Diet in 1914 when there were five
Constitution was promulgated. As soon as
parties, including all independents as one.
people learned the intrinsic difference between
These parties changed in name and number from
this Constitution, granted by the Emperor, and
time to time and the government shifted from one
to the other. The existence of these political
those of Engl and, France and other countries,
great was the disappointment among the ardent
parties and political associations was marked
followers of Montesquieu and Rosseau. The
with violence.
Communism had always been looked upon with
voices of the radicals were suddenly stilled,
disfavor by the Japanese government and was
for there was no longer any room left for
rigorously suppressed. The Communist movement
political agitation save for controversy on the
in Japan, the Nippon Community Society, was
interpretation of the Constitution. With the
broken up in 1914 and 1915. The Peace Preserva-
decline of the radical reformers, there came to
tion Iaw passed in 1925 allowed the authorities
prevail throughout the nation a certain type of
to interpret almost any organized political
thinking closely akin to the German type of
action as a subversive movement, and, when the
political philosophy.
Community Society was reorganized in 1927, all
"Nevertheless, the Imperial Constitution
of its members were arrested after a brief
failed to quell the storm in the social and
interim and again in 1932, which eliminated, for
educational fields. The forces of Westerniza-
all practical purposes, Communism in Japan. It
tion, includ ing Christianity, continued to carry
was said that the Tokyo earthquake of 1923
on a furious three-cornered battle with the
provided an opportunity for reactionaries to
schools of national classicism and of Confucian-
turn police terror against liberal organizers
1sm until there was issued in 1891 the Imperial
and socialists. There were mass arrests and
Reseript on Education.
many executions of Koreans and persons suspected
"While the Constitution provided a careful
of liberal views.
and well-elaborated modern system of government
The political power of the liberals waned,
of an Occidental type, the Imperial Rescript on
according to Japanese sources, due "mainly to
Education was intended to elucidate the eternal
the nationalistic atmosphere generally prevail-
virtues of old Japan. Exhorting the nation to
ing in the political world, "but in 1935 liberal-
loyalty, patriotism and solidarity, the Rescript
ism appeared to be regaining strength and liber-
put a heal thy check upon the overzealous cam-
als criticized the militarists. This did not
paigners for 'liberty and equality.'"
last long and the country swung back to national-
Liberalism
ism. 0n February 26, 1936, 1,480 so1diers rose
Because Japan adopted a constitution,
against the Cabinet and assassinated a number of
eliminated many class distinctions of its
high officials including army and navy officers,
feudal period, established compulsory primary
an outgrowth of the killing of a Japanese
education and took away the privileges of the
general at the War Minis try in 1935.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 6
Military Nationalism
Military Dictatorship
The army, as the power in Japanese politics,
Thus Japan secured a single party, the
insis ted upon and caused the resignation of the
Taisei Yokusan Kai, or Imperial Rule Assistance
Hirota Cabinet in 1937. Prince Fumimaro Konoe
Association, not a political party but a device
was recommended as Premier on June 1, 1937, and
to extend the rule of the military clique now in
remained in that office until January 4, 1939.
power, and at the same time, a dictator, not an
During this period Japan was rapidly progressing
individual but a collective one, the army, a
toward the present war and was involved in its
leadership understandable in the light of the
preparations for the prosecution of its war
Japanese character, rooted in their family
against China. It was often reiterated that
system and tradition of group leadership and
Japan could not tolerate the existence of the
made possible by a past history of authoritarian
Comintern in East Asia and that the war was a
government and belief in the rule of the werrior.
defensive measure to forestall the danger of
Throughout the tides of Japanese nationalism
aggression from the continent.
there was a desire for the perpetuation of the
Under Konoe's leadership there was concluded
old Japanese way of life and a yearning to
the German-Japanese agreement against the Commu-
restore the old values accompanied uy a vigorous
nist International on November 25, 1936, which
reassertion of Japanese authority and national-
was reinforced by the participation of Italy on
1sm based upon their myths of divine origin.
November 6, 1937, in what is now referred to as
Their hatred of foreigners was enhanced by the
the Tripartite Agreement against Comintern
lack of recognition by forei gn countri es,
Activity. This is distinct from the Axis
intolerable to their excessive pride of race.
Tripartite Pact signed on September 27, 1940.
This desire for recognition was exemplified by
The resignation of Prince Konoe as Premier
of Japan was followed by the formation of the
an amenament to the Covenant embodying prin-
Hiranuma, the Abe and the Yonai Cabinets. On
ciples of racial equalities submitted to the
July 20, 1940, Konoe was again ins talled as
Commission of the League of Nations and by their
Premier and he remained so until General Kideki
antagonism toward the American Immigration Act
Tojo assumed that office on October 17, 1941,
of 1924 whicn prohibited their free immigration
and formed a new Cabinet. He remained until
and denied them the right of citizenship.
while the rebellions and civil wars within
July of 1914 at which time Kuniaki Koiso formed
a new Cabinet. On April 7, 1945, this Cabinet
Japan were being quelled, they engaged in a
was dissolved and another Cabinet was created
punitive expedition against Fo rmosa financed by
under the leadership of Admiral Baron Kantaro
a private company, the Mitsubishi. Japan then
Suzuki.
waged war against China in 1894-95 to settle a
dispute over Korea. This gave them the Island
On August 28, 1940 Prince Konoe announced
that there had been considerable agitation for
of Formosa, the Pescadores and a heavy indemmity.
It is interesting to note tnat the expansionist
the formation of a new national political party
to help Japan through its emergency period, and
policy at this time was stopped by the inter-
that the Emperor issued a message on February
vention of Furopean powers. Their next military
11, 1940, showing the way to the formation of
expedition was participation in the Boxer
such an organization. The political parties
Rebellion at Peking, Cnina, in 1900. In 1904-05
were urged to dissolve their organizations and
Japan engaged in what they termed a defensive
join the single party under the leadership of
war by torpedoing Hussia's fleet at Port Arthur
Konoe. As a result, the 41 year career of the
two days before they decl ared war on February
Seiyuka1 and the S0 year career of the Minseito
10, 1904. The Japanese complained that Russ1a
parties came to an end. The minor Japanese
menaced Japan and maintained a most aggressive
political parties such as the Social Mass Party
attitud  which compelled them to take a firm
and the rightist Japan Reformist Party also
stand. As a result of this war Japan gained
dissolved to cooperate in this aim.
Port Arthur and Dairen in Manchuria, practical
Konoe stated, "The new national structure
control of Korea and was established as the
movement aims at superseding the old party
foremost Asiatic power. Although expressing the
politics postulated upon Liberalism. It is
desire only to give Korea a more stable govern
essentially national, all embracing and public
ment, tnat country was annexed in 1910 and is
spirited in character." It was also stated that
now an integral part of the Japanese nation. As
the new party was necessary for harmonious
an Ally in tne world war. Japan secured by man-
date the former German possessions in the
cooperation between the High Command and the
adminis trative branches of the government
Pacific, the Caroline, Marshall and Marianas
and was also essential in order to allow people
Islands which they occupied during that war thus
to more effectively assist the Imperial throne.
providing a foundation for its so-called "Great-
er East Asia Co-prosperity Sphere," its "Mani-
Premier Konoe averred that the national move-
ment was required for the successful "realiza-
fest Destiny." In 1920 Japan sent armies to
Siberia and occupied the isl and of Sakhalin but
tion of their national structure" and the
subsequently withdrew.
successful prosecution of their war.
It was pointed out that party government was
Military Imperialism
not acceptable in Japan because it was "contrary
to the basic principle of their national policy
Japan claims it was attacked by China in
of one sovereign over all," and at the same time
1931, a conflict which marked the beginning of
it was asserted that implicit obedience to the
Japan's widespread military expansion into tihe
Emperor was the essence of their national policy
Asiatic mainland but at the same time states
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 7
that this war was motivated not only by the
validity, it is not surprising to find Japanese
necessity of improving conditions at home but
in Latin America and elsewhere intensely loyal
also was a defensive measure to forestall
to the "Mother Country" and eager to give their
aggression from the continent. This "incident"
nation all possible assistance. It also accounts
was followed by the setting up of the Japanese
in part for their exclusiveness tnroughout Latin
puppet state, Manchukuo, consisting of the
America and their desire to exist apart from the
several northern Chinese provinces more accur-
natives as a "nation within a nation." The
ately termed Manchuria. Japan insists that
Japanese scholar Hirata has assured his country-
Manchukuo is an independent state yet at the
men that:
same time it provides them with a corridor for
"From the fact of the divine descent
their expansion on the Asiatic mainland. In
of the Japanese people proceeds their
19 37, Japan attacked China proper in what is
1mmeasurable superiority to the natives
professed was an effort to repel, in self-
of the other countries in courage and
defense, pressure from the continent. This is
in intelligence."
the undeclared war which Japan asserts was
From childhood the Japanese are taught:
inspired by humanity and should not be confused
with aggression for gain at the expense of other
"Japan is the only divine land.
rations. She claims to seek only common econom-
Japan's Emperor is the only divine
ic progress and political security based upon
emperor.
the cooperation and collaboration of Asiatic
Japan's people are the only divine
peoples. This is the line of propaganda which
people.
was distributed throughout the Western Hemis-
Ihererore, Japan must be the light of
phere. This attitude is also reflected in the
the world."
Imperial Rescript formally declaring war on the
Their egoisin is further enlarged by the assimila-
United States and Great Britain. This Rescript
tion of the idea expressed by Emperor Jimmu:
places the war guilt on the United States and
"We shall build our Capital all over the
1ts Allies but states at the same time that the
world, and make the world our dominion."
present war is to carry out "the task bequeathed
The Japanese who have sincerely accepted this
them by their forefatners."
national ideology and are thoroughly indoctrina-
ted consider the war against the West to be in
The Great Crusade
the nature of a crusade. Japan is "begotten of
Woven into the very heart of this political
God" and exists for the divine purpose of puri-
ideology direeted against the Western Hemisphere
f'ying the world. The Emperor is the "Heavenly
were uie potent forces of religion, and it is at
King," not winlly of this world. The War Office
this point that the Japanese world view reached
has therefore promulgated the following idea:
its peak. It is tnrougn religion that the Japa-
"To bring together all the races of the
nese vision transcends the drab world of matter.
world into one harpy accord has been the
It is f'rom religion that life flows into the na-
ideal and the national aspiration of the
tional body, producing a concerted action which
Japanese since the foundationof this Em-
might otherwise not be possible. Autnorities
pire. we deem this the great mission of
therefore agree that people who analyze the
the Japanese race. We also aspire to
Japanese as being a totally avaricious, materi-
make a clean sweep of injustice and in-
alistic, stupid and savage people misinterpret
equity from the earth and to bring about
the essence of their character. observing them
everl asting nappiness among mankind."
from our point of view and judging them by our
standards leads to one conclusfon. Seeing them
A knowledge of tnis social perspective appears
from their own point of view and judging them by
to be essential to an understanding of the Japa-
their standards leads to a second and different
nese activii ies in Latin America. In those
conclusion. The Japanese in their own minds are
soutnern nations, the Japanese settlers have
as convinced of tne justness and rightness of
quite accurately reflected the official view of
their cause as we are of ours.
the Japanese Government and sougnt to act in ac-
Because of this belief, irrespective of its
cordance wi tn the program of its leaders.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
Outline History of Japan
Political
Chronology
Eyolution
Japanese
Japanese
Western
periods
dates
dates
660 B.C.
Founding of the Japanese Empire by
EGO
Emperor Jimmu.
CHUAI 9
200 A.D.
Korean expedition of Empress Jinga.
0-JIN 15
284
Japanese court sends to Paikche
(Korea) for scribe Wani. (Official
adoption of Chinese script follows.)
PATRIARCHAL
KIM-MEI 13
552
Paikche sends image of Buddha, vol-
umes of the sutras, and, in 554, men
PERIOD of self-sus-
learned in the classics, medicine
taining clans.
divination, etc.
SUIKO 12
604
Shotoku Taishi, regent for Empress
Suiko, issues a code, first formula-.
tion of law in Japan.
AMAT
TAIKWA 2
546
Nakatomi no Kamatari (founder of the
Fujiwara family) formulates the
Taikwa reform edict, in essence the
application to Japan of the central-
ized bureaucratic system of the
Chinese Empire.
WADO 3
710
Nara, first permanent capital, laid
ARN
out on model of the Chinese Capital.
BUREAUCRATIC
TEMPEI 13
741
Buddhism becomes in effect the state
SYSTEM imported
religion.
from China (646),
ENRYAKU 13
794
After ten years of building a new
changing shortly to
capital at Nagaoka, Emperor Kwammu
ARISTOCRATIC
switches to Kyoto, five miles dis-
tant, and rebuilds his capital there.
SYSTEM with one
dominant clan fami-
ENRYAKU 21
802
Successful campaign agains!: the
ly assuming regency.
HEIAN
Ainu, indigenous barbarians in the
north of Japan.
BUNJI I
1185
Taira clan defeated at Dan-no-ura;
Minamoto no Yoritomo supreme in
Japan. Struggle between Taira and
Minamoto clans. Epic period in Jap-
anese history. Formation of samural
caste.
CONTINUED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTINUED FROM THE PREVIOUS PAGE
Political
Chronology
Evolution
Japanese
Japanese
Western
periods
dates
dates
KENKYU 3
1192
Yoritomo made Sei-i-Tai-Shogun (Bar-
bar ian-Subduing-Generalissimo); sets
up Bakufu (military headquarters) at
Kamakura, in eastern Japan.
AR
SHOJII
1199
Hojo Regency begins on death of
Yoritomo.
SHOKYU
1219
Fujiwara puppet Shogun set up in
Kamakura.
BUNEI I!
1274
First invasion of Japan by Kublai
khan.
KO-AN 4
1281
Second invasion.
GENKO 3
1333
Emperor Go-Daigo destroys Kamakura;
AMCHO
Hojo Regency ends with suicide of
last regent.
ENGEN I
1336
Rival courts: Go-Daigo establishes
"Southern" Court; Ashikaga Takauji
sets up Emperor Komyo in Kyoto.
GENCHU 9
1392
Half-century struggle over succes-
sion, fundamentally a redistribution
of feudal power, ends with Ashikaga
supremacy.
MILITARY DIC-
ONIN I
1467-77
Feudal Wars of Onin. Wany familles
TATORSHIP ex-
URCHI
destroyed.
erting limited author-
BUMMEI 9
1477
Collapse of central government as
result of civil war. Ashikaga Sho-
ity over feudal socie-
guns powerless. Imperlal House pen-
ty. Decentralization
niless.
and civil wars. De-
struction of power
ME1-0 9
1500
Whole of Japan at War. Many peasant
of old families. Emer-
uprisings.
gence of adventurer-
TEMBUN 11
1542
Contact with the West; three Porto-
dictatora.
guese shipwrecked. Traders and
Jesuit priests follow.
SENGKU
TEMBUN 18
1549
Spanish Misslonary St. Francis
Xavler reaches Japan.
EIROKU 11
1568
Nobunaga de facto Shogun; end of
Ashikaga power.
GENKI 2
1571
Mobunaga destroys warlike monasteries
and crushes Buddhi as a political
force.
DM
TENSHO 10
1582
Toyotomi Hideyoshi succeeds Nobunaja.
(mposes peace.
TENSHC 15
1587
First Chrlstian persecution.
BUNROKU 1
1592
Unsuccessful xorean expedition, ter-
minated in 1598 by death of Hideyoshi.
KEICHO 2
1597
Second Korean expedition.
KEICHO 3
1598
lyeyasu, founder of Tokugawa famlly,
succeeds Hideyoshi.
CONTINUED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
CONTINUED FROM THE PREVIOUS PAGE
Political
Chronology
Evolution
Japanese
Japanese
Western
periods
dates
dates
KEICHO 5
1600
Battle of Sekigahara,won by lyeyasu,
açainst rebel chiefs. Yedo, later
called Tokyo, becomes capital.
Iyeyasu becomes Shogun.
GENWAI
1615
Iyeyasu becomes master of Japan by
victory at Osaka Cestle.
GENWA 8
1622-51
Zenith of feudal institutions, under
KENIAN4
third Tokugawa Shogun, Iyemitsu.
KANEI I
1624
Expulsion of the Spaniards. Increas-
ing enti-foreign feeling.
KANEI 14
1637
Drastic anti-foreign and anti-Chris-
tian edict. Shimabara rebellion,
primarily caused by agrarian troubles,
but given moral impetus by Christian-
ity, leads to expulsion of Portuguese
and closure of country to foreign
influence.
MEIREKI 3
1657
Great fire in Yedo.
KYOHO I
1716
Increased pressure from changing
economic conditions. Yoshimune, an
CENTRALIZED.
enlightened Shogun, tries to remedy
SELF-ISOLATED.
desperate situatlon by a "back to
FEUDAL SYSTEM.
I ycyasu" program. Relaxes bar
Collapse cf agricultur-
YEDO
against Western learning by allowing
al economy Bankrupi-
Dutch books to enter.
cy, social disintegra-
TEN-MEI 3-7
1783-7
Rice Riots. Attempted reforms of
tion, and economic
Hatsudaira Sadanobu. Growing feel-
chaos. End of isolation.
ing against the shogunate.
TEMPO 9
1838
Famines; financial embarrassment of
shogunate: general economic collspse
threatened.
KAEI 6
1853-4
Perry's "black ships" arrive; first
ANSEI I
treaty with U. S. signed.
ANSEI 5
1858
Commerciai treaty with U. S. signed
without Emperor's sanction. Oppo-
sition to shogunate foments anti-
foreign demonstration in which "out-
side lords," especially of Satsuma
and Choshu, are leaders.
BUNKYU 3
1863
Reprisal bombardment of kagoshima,
capital of Satsuma clan, by British
fleet. AmerIcan, Dutch, and French
vessels fired on by Choshu forts at
Shimonoseki.
GANJI I
186
Reprisal movement of four powers.
Choshu forts destroyed by allied
squadron of Dutch, French and
British ships.
KE1O 3
1867-8
Shogunate overthrown. "Restoretion"
of power to Emperor. Mutsuhito
accedes as Emperor Meiji: moves to
Yedo, names it Tokyo, "Eastern
Capital".
CONTINUED ON THE FOLLOWING PAGE

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.96)
CONTINUED FROM THE PREVIOUS PAGE
Political
Chronology
Evolution
Japanesc
Japanesc
Western
perioda
dates
dates
KE10 3
1867-8
Shogunate overthrown. "Restoration"
MEIJI 
of power to Emperor. Mutsuhito
accedes os Emperor Neiji; moves to
Yedo, names it Tokyo, "Eastern
Capital.
MEIJI 2
1869
Chiefs of the four great clans (Sat.
suma, Choshu, Tosa and Mizen) surren.
der their fiefs to the Emperor, cla
heads made governors of foreer pro-
vinces.
INDUSTRIAL
REVOLUTION
MEIJI
1871
Second reorganization. System of
imported. Feudal-
local autonomy sbolished. Disestab-
lishment of samurai.
ism ended. Power
"restored" to Em-
MEIJI 7
1874
First Popular Assembly. Alliance
peror under Con-
between government and Mitsubishi
stitution.
against Formosa.
interests for punitive expedition
MEIJI 9
1876
Samurai fortidden to wear two sworde.
Conscript army of all classes set up.
Dissatisfaction of samural culmi-
MEIJI
nates in the Satsuma rebellion "nct
against the Emperor but against his
evil counselors."
MEIJI 22
1889
Constitution (drafted by Prince Ita.
on German model, after study cf
European forma of government)
"solemnly promulgated". Imperi
Diet opened 1890.
MEIJI 27-28
1894-5
Sino-Japanese War, won by Jaganest.
MEIJI 35
1902
Anglo-Japanese Treaty.
MEIJI 37-8
1904-5
Russo-Japanese War, won by Japanesn.
MEIJI 38
1905
Anglo-Japanese Alliance.
MEIJI 43
1910
Korea annexed to Japan by imperinl
rescript.
MEIJI 44
1911
"Gentleman's Agreement," by which
Japan voluntarity limits migration
to Canade and U. S.
TAISMC I
!912
End of Meiji reign. Accession of
Yoshihito.
TAISNO 3
1914
Japan anters the World War on the
side of the Allles.
TAISHO
TAISNO 10
1921
Incapacity of Taisho. Regency of
Mirohito.
Emergence of Ja-
panWORLD
TAISNO 12
1923
Great Earthquake.
POWER.
TAISNO 13
1924
U. 3. Congress pases exclusion law
aimed at the Japanese.
SHOWA I
1926
Death of Emperor Yoshihito. The
hown period begins with Emperor
Mirohitc.
SNOWA 6
1981
The Manchurian Adventure.
SHOWA 10
1935
Jepan withdraws from the Leagee of
Nations.
SHOWA
SHOWA 11
1936
Antl-Comintern Pact concluded le-
breen Sermany and Japan.
SNOWA 12
1937
Sino-Japanese War starta. Italy 
comes member of Anti-Comintern Pmrt.
SHONA 15
1940
Germeny, Italy, and Japan form Tri-
Partite Pact.
SHOWA 16
1941
Jean attacks Pearl Narbor and opms
wer with U. S. and Great Britain.

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.93)
MAP OF N.Y.K. ROUTES
NORTH
AMERICA
ASIA
EUROPE
NOATH
MAGIRA
AFRICA
ELSA
SOUTH
INDIAN
AMERICA
O C E A N
SOUTH
PACIFIC OCEAN
AUSTRALIA
INDICATIONS
N. Y. K. Officen
Agnots
Ports of Call
N. Y. IK. Route
Other N. Y. K. Proeenger
Connecting Outsida Lines
NIPPON YUSEN KAISHA ROUTES

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 13
Chapter 2
MIGRATION AND ORGANIZATIONS
BACKGROUND
Many difficulties soon arose from the use
of these Japanese laborers and accusations of
Japanese foreign expansion 1s not new. It
ill treatment were directed against "tyrannical
has a history of several centuries. Japan main-
landowners" by the Japanese Government. General
tained contact with the western nations and its
emigration was suspended by the Japanese for
Asiat1c neighbors during the years 1542-1638 and
some years, primarily because of the troubles
Japanese established settlements as far south
experienced in Hawaii and their apprehension
as the Philippines and Siam. During the same
for the safety of their people.
period it was also in contact with Europe. On
The Japanese Government finally adopted a
September 15, 1613, Hasekura Tsunenaga and
policy of allowing its laborers to emigrate to
sixty-eight men were sent to Spain to study con-
foreign countries. This decision was aided by
ditions there. These Japanese visited other
the desire to fulfill Japan's imperial views, to
European countries, their leader was welcomed
relieve the pressure of population, and to pro-
by the Vatican and granted Roman citizenship
vide for an increased export and import market.
and, upon their return after seven years'ab-
In 1884, Japan entered into an agreement for
sence, they brought with them evidence of
the importation of Japanese laborers to Hawaii,
European civilization.
and soon after, in 1885, a law was enacted by
Consideration was given to colonization
the Japanese Government permitting general
possibilities in Latin America early in the
emigration of the working classes.
seventeenth century. However, in 1638 Japan
However, Japan kept in mind the disturbances
adopted a policy of seclusion which remained in
in Hawaii and also recalled that the Japanese
effect until the advent of Commodore Perry in
were not looked upon with favor in the Uni ted
1853. During these years foreigners, except for
States, where the "Gentlemen's Agreement" of
a limited number of Dutch and Chinese traders
1907 was soon to control their immigration to
restricted in their movements, were expelled
this nation. As a result of these two factors
and kept out of the country. The natives at the
plus the wish of the Japanese Government for
same time were compelled to remain, under pen-
expansion, the Japanese migration altered 1ts
alty of' death, within Japanese territory. The
direction about 19 CC and turned toward Latin
treaties concluded by Commodore Perry and the
America. By 1908, over 8,00 C Japanese had been
first American diplomatic representative to
shipped to Mexico alone with large numbers also
Japan, Townsend Harris, brought to an end the
going to Peru and Brazil. However, large-scale
Japanese policy of inclusion and exclusion.
organized migration of Japanese to Latin America
These secured to Americans the right to visit
did not begin until after World War I. It was
and reside in Japan and, conversely, extended
further stimulated at that time by the passage
the right to the Japanese to visit and live in
in the Uni ted States of the Exclusion Law of
the United States as did similar treaties with
1924. This law, which the Japanese believed was
other powers foreign to Japan with res pect to
directed specifically against them, was one of
their nationals and their countries. Japan did
the early causes of their hostility toward the
not permit its people to leave though until
United States.
legal provisions were made in 1866 enabling cer-
tain classes of Japanese, the gentry, to study
In Latin America tne immigration policy
in western countries. Laws were subsequently
relative to Japanese was totally different than
enacted in Japan which, with Imperial clarifi-
in the United States. Japanese were strongly
cation, abolished the seclusion laws and encour-
encouraged to migrate to Latin American nations.
aged foreign education. Nothing was dme at
The Latin American attitude is largely explained
this time which would even permit the emigration
by economic motives. Natural resources needed
of laborers and therefore the first wave of
developing.' This required man power, which was
Japanese emigrants was one of students, seeking
lacking. The businessmen of Latin America
to absorb western technology and scientific
badly needed a supply of labor, particularly
knowledge much in the manner in which Japan had
cheap labor. They looked to Japan to supply
absorbed tne Cninese civilization 1200 years
these laborers and Japan was willing to do so.
before.
When slavery was finally abolished in Latin
In 1868 about 150 Japanese contract laborers
America, labor shortage was more acute than
immigrated to Hawaii. This movement was ar-
ever before. The Japanese laborer, it was
ranged by James M. Van Reed, Hawaiian Consul
thought, would take the place of slave labor.
General to Japan, at the request of the Hawaiian
Chinese were also regarded as desirable for this
sugar planters, who were suffering financially
purpose.
from constant labor shortages. Economic mo-
Following their victorious war with Russia
tives were sufficient at the time to overcome
in 1904, the Japanese sent representatives to
racial prejudice and the Japanese were sought
Latin America to study the possibilities of
after and they began to arrive in the Islands
systematic colonization of that continent.
in increasing numbers.
Though natives planned to exploit Japanese labor,
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.92)
Japanese Nationals Living Abroad
Total
1,146,462
(OCTOBER 1935)
O
2
3
6
ARGENTINA
3
192.823
NE IEALAND
BRAZIL
PERU
1
7
AUSTRALIA
5
MANDATED
ISLANDS
NATIONALS
CANADA
USA
2
9
LIMING ABROAD
JAPANESE
935
7
O
U
O
S
2
ARCHEPELAGO
SOUTH SEA
HAWAI
LVING ABROAD
1.146.462
935
2.882
S03H.O
MEXICO
EUROPE
8
1.146,462
ω
AFRICA 212
SIBERIA
MANCURIA
XANTUNG
250,000
CHINA
6
5
2
8
7
7
8
200,000
S
500,000
150,000
400,000
300,000
100,000
200,000
50,000
100.000
82502020
1,146,462
1,058,328
918,177
825.100
777.946
740.774
759,439
709,838
676,262
640,099
NUMBER
MANCHUTRA
BRAZIL
AMCRICA
STHES
480.229
192 823
263.703
209.707
389.497
173.500
297.430
197.791
313,715
137.476
252972
194.114
260.332
132.099
249659
102.410
202.753
119.740
248.291
177.162
227.603
116.502
220.460
176.208
215.009
103.166
274.987
166277
231.429
76.488
272,491
29430
194.114
65.190
270.085
142,257
191.636
53.481
261.536
13:.406
LEBANON
FREC AGER
ÉL SALVADOR
FR MRCCO
VENEZUA
FGISAN
ARAY
IRAN
URUAY
GGPY
COLOMA
CHINA
FR INDO
PANAMA
BOLMA
CHILG
CUBA
w.
VIU36IS
ARGTINA
DUTCH IIES
BTISAADA
PFGRU
CHIHA
USA
HAAAH
XATUNG
mAz
MANCHURA
PEOPLE
HAOF
OF
COTRY
1935
1934
1933
1932
1931
1930
1929
1928
1927
1926
A YEARLY COMPARISON OF JAPANESE LIVING ABROAD
DURING THE LAST TEN YEARS
OCTOBER, 1935
REGIONAL DISTRIBUTION OF JAPANESE
NATIONALS LIVING ABROAD
OCTOBER, 1935

=== Page 90 === (confidence 1.00)
Page 15
JAPANESE DEPARTURES TO LATIN AMERICA
1903 -- 1937
Latin
World
Year
Argentina
Brazil
Mexico
Peru
America
Total
1903
126
281
1,303
1,710
14,055
1904
1,261
1,261
14,663
1905
346
346
13,302
1906
5,068
1,257
6,325
36,124
1907
3,822
85
3,908
25,060
1908
799
2,880
3,679
10,447
1909
1
4
2
1,138
1,145
4,278
1910
2
911
5
483
1,401
6,951
1911
2
28
456
494
8,071
1912
16
2,859
16
714
3,606
14,912
1913
103
6,947
47
1,126
8,250
20,966
1914
41
3,526
35
1,132
4,743
17,974
1915
33
39
19
1,348
1,447
12,543
1916
135
35
22
1,429
1,637
14,586
1917
127
3,883
53
1,348
6,036
22,862
1918
134
5,956
128
1,736
7,975
23,574
1919
174
2,732
64
1,597
4,501
18,244
1920
42
970
53
836
1,922
13,541
1921
53
970
69
717
1,835
12,944
1922
52
986
77
202
1,328
12,879
1923
66
796
68
333
1,271
8,825
1924
58
3,589
76
651
4,474
13,098
1925
121
4,908
160
922
6,111
10,696
1926
182
8,599
336
1,250
10,367
16,184
1927
202
9,625
319
1,271
11,477
18,041
1928
387
12,002
353
1,410
14,152
19,850
1929
430
15,597
249
1,585
17,861
25,704
1930
489
13,741
434
813
15,477
21,828
1931
362
5,565
283
299
6,509
10,384
1932
239
15,108
149
369
15,865
19,028
19.33
135
23,299
85
480
23,999
27,317
1934
112
22,960
80
473
23,625
28,087
1935
201
5,745
53
814
6,813
10,813
1930
349
5,357
62
593
6,361
11,119
1937
307
4,675
65
166
5.213
10,744
Sources:
Japanese Foreign Office Statistics:
Frenczi, "International Migrations.
the Japanese tovernment probably considered the
Brazil was the first South American country
project from a long-time point of view and saw
to feel the full effect of controlled Japanese
in it desirable political, military, and eco-
immigration. In 1907, officials of Sao Paulo,
nomic potentialities.
Brazil, negotiated a contract with the Japanese
corporation, Kokoku Shokumiu Kaisha. A subsidy
was given to this corporation with the under-
ORGANIZATION
standing that it furnish Brazil within three
During tne last quarter of the nineteenth
years, 3,000 able-bodied Japanese for work on
century there were some small, trregular mi-
the coffee plantations. The plan was a failure.
grations of Japanese to Latin America. They
Iess than 200 families arrived and these found
were sporadic attempts and of no real conse-
themselves so 1ll-adapted to local conditions as
quence from the aspect of colonization. They be
to prove ineffeetive as settlers. Further at-
came scattered about the continent. At the turn
tempts were made on a smaller scale between 1907
of the century when Latin American nations so-
and 1911 with some degree of success.
licited Japanese labor, the Japanese Government
In 1917, five Japanese emigration companies
at once took an interest and devised a scheme of
were merged into the Kaigai Kogyo Kabushiki
systematic, regulated and well-controlled migra-
Kaisha, known as the Overseas Development Com-
tions to Latin America.
pany. Iater this firm absorbed other emigration
★
JAPANESE
MONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 16
companies until it practically had a monopoly
were to be based on old Japanese guild princi-
on providing transportation for Japanese emi-
ples. The cooperatives served a two-fold pur-
grants. Japanese were carried to many dif-
pose, patriotic and economic. They bound the
ferent sections of the world, but by 1924 the
Japanese immigrants closer together socially
emphasis was placed upon Brazil.
protecting their loyalty to Japan, and they also
The plans of organizations provided for a
served as a means for buying land and assisted
leader in each locality, known as the Society
the immigrants in material successes.
Head. nirectly subordinate to this individual
If one element characterized the Japanese
were five superintendents and eleven directors.
system of migration more than anything else, it
In connection with the governing activities of
was probably that of centralization. Carefully,
the eleven directors, there was a secretary whc
step by step Japan assumed strongcentral control
acted as a liaison contact between two subordi-
over all her people and their colonies in Latin
nate organizations known as the Enterprise
America. This centralized control, extended over
Section and the General Affairs Section. Under
politics, economics, social mores and religion.
the Enterprise Sect.ion were four subdivisions:
By this method, the Japanese settlers were weld-
The Propaganda Agent, Colonization Agent, Trans-
ed closely to Japan, and their intense loyalty
portation Agent and Kobe Branch Office Agent.
was maintained.
Under the General Affairs Section, there was a
Agnin in 1927, unified control was height-
Treasurer for the community and an individual
ened wnen various Emigrant Societies merged
who was in charge of general administrative
into one great unit, The Kagai Iju Kumiai Ke-
affairs. lais Overseas Emigration Society is
goka1, known as the Association of Overseas Em1-
reported as having purchased thousands of
gration Partnerships. Among other tnings, it
acres oi land in Brazil, and promoted the
assisted in securing large tracts of territory
emigration of about nineteen hundred families.
for the Japanese in Latin America.
JAPANESE RESIDING IN NORTH AND
SOUTH AMERICA, 1925-38
Year
North America
South America
world
1925
295,641
64,191
617,929
1928
169,569
98,037
709,838
1931
127,964
142,648
509,754
1932
131,152
146,678
635,227
1933
129,429
160,387
672,266
1534
174,230
201,740
872,807
1935
123,611
200,786
689,818
1936
137,587
223,655
997,115
1937
141,481
228,478
1,043,412
1933
142,395
200,820
1,059,913
Source: Japanese Foreign Office statistics
To further the expansion of Japanese to
After listening to persuasive propaganda
Latin America, various socleties were formed in
about the desirability of immigrating to Latin
Japan such as the Latin American-Japanese So-
America and after definitely making a deci-
ciety, the Japanese-Chile Trade Association,
sion in favor thereof, Japanese aitizens would
and the Japanese-Mexico Association. Japan
submit their candidacy to this Association for
also began to take part in various exhibitions
consideration. It became, theoretically, a
in Latin America-and to establish centers of
selective process. Their financial status was
commercial advertising.
examined. They had to pass a physical examina-
The Japanese Emigration Council in 1924
tion. On completing these two requirements,
ordered a mission to South America to study
they were directed to a school for training to
the conditions relative to future migrations
become a successful immigrant. It was impressed
of Japanese to that continent. Following the
upon them that they were representing their
report of its mis sion, Japan commenced to di-
country, Japan, in foreign lands and whatever
rect more attention to Brazil than elsewhere
was done by them, good or bad, would reflect
in South America. Migrations were organized
upon their nation and their race. Therefore,
on an extensive basis.
they had better be successful. The educational
The Japanese Government had furnished
program included instruction in foreign lan-
a subsidy to Kaigai Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha
guages, farming, practical medicine, and ap-
since 1921. In 1927, it assisted in the estab-
propriate modes of conduct for the country in
lishment of a Colonization Bank. The Japanese
which the immigrants were to live.
Government through this company conducted a
propaganda campaign to persuade people to migrate
There were generally two classes of im-
to Brazil. In that same year, 1927, the Overseas
migrants, the "labor immigrant" from the poorer
Emigration Societies Act went into effect for
class and the "colonist immigrant" from the more
the purpose of developing cooperatives for im-
prosperous groups. The "labor immigrant" was
migrants in Latin America. These cooperatives
usually under contract for a designated period
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 17
of years with the emigration companies and was
anti-Japanese legislation in tne United States,
quite commonly exploited by these companies.
l abor and business competition by the Japanese
On arriving in Latin America, he worked out his
in their adopted countries, and general racial
contract and was then permitted to join a Ja-
prejudice.
panese cooperative colony. The "colonist im-
In a few years, Latin America had changed
migrant" could become a member of the coopera-
from welcoming the Japanese to restricting
tive colony at once upon arriving in his new
them. When they were badly needed as laborers,
country.
they were admitted to the countries. when they
The earlier immigrants were chiefly adven-
were no longer needed for economic reasons,
turous young men, but these were followed by
they were barred as inuividuals.
older men who brougnt their wives and estab-
TRADE AND MIGRATIONS
lished stable communities.
The growth of Japanese trade was directly
STEAMSHIP COMPANIES
related to the growtn of Japanese migrations
to Latin America. With the development of
Transportation to Iatin America was pro-
Japanese colonies in Latin America, trade with
vided for the Japanes immigrants by two main
Japan developed accordingly. From 1930 to 1936,
shipping companies "osaka Shosen Kaisha" and
Japanese trade in Latin America increased rap-
the "Nippon Yusen kai sha." These companies were
idly and gave indication of concentrated action
subsidized by the Japanese Government. In con-
being directed against Great Britain in Latin
junctton wi tn the emigration companies, they
America. The commereial interests of Japan
provided the Japanese settlers wi tn everytning
and Great Britain were in conf lict with each
down to the most minut detail, but tney d-
other. Both cast covetous eyes on Latin Amer-
manded in return à striet adnerence to central-
ican commerce. Competition in some areas was
izat ion as outl ined by the Japanese Government
Very keen between these countries.
and operated in tne interests of that Govern-
Japan exported to Latin America manufactured
ment.
articles suen as textiles. Particular empnasis
UCCUPATIONS OF JAPANESE IN SOUTH AMERICA.
OCTOBER 1, 1957
srazil
Pero
Arcentina
 Jap cose
197.720
22.150
5.207
Porcat in:
.
agriculture
13.4
9.0
18.2
M:nufactur ing
0.5
2.1
20.3
commerce
J.3
18.0
14.7
Jomestic work
0.2
0.5
2.2
Civil service. etc.
0.4
0.7
0.9
witnout occupation
72.0
68.0
40.1
Source: Japan Year ook
IMMIGRATION RESTRICTIONS
se plared on cot ton textiles, and it was in
this rield that competition wi tn Great Britain
Curtat Iment of lapanese immi gration to Latin
was most aeute. Japn's imports from Lat in
American countries first took place in central
America were for the most art raw materials
America. As carly as Isu6, Cosia Rica took
suen as raw wool, cot ton, minera ls, rubber, oil,
measures to restriet Japanese immi ration, aand
nides, and grains. Mueh trade was carried on
Guatemala followed in l91u. As we can see, tni
witn Peru, Argent ina, and Brazil. buring the
was done betore the pertod of lar -seale Jap
193o's, Japon began to import large quantit ies
anese migrations to Latin Ameriea. lhe atti-
of raw materials from Lat in \merica wnich could
tude manifested by tnese Central American na-
be valuable to war preparations. lhere are
tions was displayed by South Amer ican countries
indient lons that dapin was negot lat ine for war
such as Colombia and Paragu y. By 1936, most
materials as a "purenasing aeent" for Germany:
of the Latin American countries nad taken meas-
that her purchases eventually reacned Germany
ures to restrict Japanese immigration eitner
in an attempt to assist that country to break
directly or indirectly. Tne reasons for these
the Britisn blockade. Japanese businessmen
measures have been rela ted to the fear created
were willing to pay exorbitant prices to secure
by the rising Japanese Empire in the orient,
the desired imprts. As a result of tiis they
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 18
TRADE AGREEMENTS
Argentina
Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation, February 3, I898, ratified
September 18, 1901.
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, August 16, 1930, ratified December 2,
1931.
Bolivia
Treaty of Commerce, April 3, 1914, ratified March 15, 1916.
Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, December 3, 1919.
Brazil
Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, October 3, I881.
Treaty of Amity and Commerce, November 5, I895, ratified February 12,
1897.
Chile
Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation, September 25, I897, ratified,
with additional articles, September 24, 1906.
Treaty of Friendship and Commerce, February 18, 1915.
Mexico
Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, December 14, I899.
Treaty of Commerce and Navigation, October 8, I924, ratified May 5, 1925.
Exchange of Notes, October and November, I929 (Relinquishment of extra-
territoriality).
Amendment to I899 Treaty, prohibiting labor migration from one country
to another, September 26, 1931.
Exchange of Notes relating to Treaty, March 6, I934.
Paraguay
Treaty of Commerce, November 17, 1919, ratified August 25, 1921.
Peru
Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Navigation, June 26, 1874.
Treaty of Amity, Commerce and Navigation, September 30, I924, ratified
February 19, 1930.
Uruguay
Commercial and Navigation Treaty, May 10, 1940.
Venezuela
Treaty of Commerce, July, 1939.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 19
were in certain instances able to secure more
be used to the economic advantage of Japan.
material in Latin America than the British and
Economic penetration and control of Latin Amer-
Americans wno would not pay such high prices.
ican exports, particularly war material, seemed
For example, the metal market in Mexico in 1940
to be Japan's goal during that pariod.
JAPANESE TRADE WITH SOUTH AMERICA
Total Trade of Japan
South America
(million yen)
(thousand yen)
Year
Exports
Imports
Exports
Imports
to
from
1900
198
287
3
11
1901
252
256
5
1
1902
258
272
2
--
193
290
317
12
18
1504
31 5
371
5
2
1905
322
405
10
4
1906
424
419
50
52
1907
432
454
218
842
1908
378
430
125
631
1509
413
394
128
1.621
1910
458
404
272
1.926
1911
447
517
303
2.581
1912
527
013
1.700
1,862
1913
632
729
1,673
2,781
1914
591
596
510
2,626
315
708
532
1.545
3.127
1.1:7
750
2,994
6,740
11
1.603
1.037
7,588
14.465
1210
1,302
1,000
36,893
.20,070
1919
2.099
2,173
20.831
18.100
13.0
1.948
.330
23.050
32.112
1921
1,253
1.014
5.490
5.102
1322
1.037
1.090
10.350
7,575
1923
1.448
1.902
11,569
10.027
11.
1,807
.453
18.056
8,535
1925
2,306
2.573
17.705
8.512
1926
2.045
2.377
10,831
11.944
1927
1.992
2.179
20.886
10.478
1928
1,972
2.196
21.130
12.199
1929
2,149
2.216
23,026
14.263
1930
1.470
1,540
10.415
0.835
1531
1,147
1.230
10.220
7.097
1532
1.410
1.431
12.133
4,680
130
1.861
1.517
30.733
12.872
1934
2.172
2,283
21.457
23,902
19.5
2,499
2.472
73.302
42.903
1936
2.093
2,764
68.701
112.190
1937
3,175
3,783
109,519
162,611
1938
2,690
2.663
60,151
91,235
1939
3,576
2.918
67.111
115.730
Source: Resume Statistique de I'Empire du Japon and
Returns of the Foreign Trade of Japan, Tokyo
SETTLEMENTS
was satd to be largely controlled by Japanese
purchases. Japan also secured large amounts of
As previousl, indicated, the Japanese colo-
nies in srazi! were developed chiefly through
oil from Mexico following strained relations
between Britain and Mexico.
the efforts of katgai koygo Kabushfki Kaisha.
This company nad branenes tiroughout Latin
it appeared that everywhere throughout Lat-
Ameriea with neadquarters in Brazil.
in Ameriea during the 193o's, the dapanese wor
The ttrst Japanese cotony wns organized in
condueting economic warfare against the Uni ted
São Paulo at Iguape during 1912. The Japanese
States and Great Britain. Even in the field
here were cniefty en ed as aericul ture labor-
of esptonage, the Japanese stressed the value
Ps.
Followin il, pan's poliey was al-
of securing commercial informat fon wnicn could
tered to stabli t immigrants as settlers
★
JAPANESEMONGRAPHLATINAMIRICA
★

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.84)
BRAZIL AND PERU
Brazll
11,
Auence, thereby being of more value to Iapan.
The largest Japanese settlemente in Latin
Americe are to be found in Brazil and Peru.
The Jupalese soon became succesf 1n the
growing of cofiee, rice, mulberries, bananas,
Brazil for centuries has been lasking in
sugar, tea, cotton and vegetablr. ilk
populatlon and, therefore, has weloomed many
industry also was started and in all this activ-
races ts her country principally to relieve the
ity the Kaigat Keo Ksbushfki Katsna represen-
shortage of labor.
ted the ofemlot
During the beginning of the reign of Dom
and kept a sut.1 rvu'lin uanne lo-
Pedro 11 (1891-1n89), cons1deration was given
nte. An tiermr wy. ra axushoku
to col onizing the Chinese in Brazil. Further
Rua1. p.
trought was given to it following the passage
Iandn wnicn wor aold
: tn anti-slavery laws in 1871. Negotiations
nies,ex1pp1 a
n wi: the (linese (overnment with more or
ls a effa
 let1ctive resul ts. There are some rec-
 Indicato that in 1896, the Brazilian
As a result ut une incroas apa.
 .f rd with Japanese officials in
these large Japanese colontus in irazii o n
 InduceIapanese laborers to come
intense businees acrivtis. t lara
!nen : abor shortages became acute,
foreignersnaveome
.iragement as given to Japan-
mp1
 witn govermment support and
1nnto Brazil in large numters.
TMPRINPAA'INAAN
Uruguay
100.
lxports
Imports
4.
2.901
1.150
626
2.710
422
173
133
12.2
0.738
2,451
317
331
004
20.01
12.128
6,965
2,631
1915
5.020
4.000
10.371
5.578
4,495
:93
7!
22.11
21.989
7,891
9,528
195
17.305
16
+2.48
42.018
10.106
33,926
1938
10.385
46.1.
19,007
24,350
3.988
4.158
1335
15.60
74.022
8,152
11.800
3.771
3.398
Peru
Chile
veneruela
C2p0R5
imports
Exports
imports
Exports
Imports
1931
500
17
804
2.942
1932
41
280
701
193
3.899
1.553
1.475
2.90.
15..
う,570
1.040
7,440
3.43c
1.970
30
13!
1.1
0.547
4.4.3
3,505
53
1230
:St
1.00
7,425
2.
7,014
257
33
2.244
0.211
10.7
14.7.2
9,139
231
.5
0.1
1.12
5.480
1.418
14,0
10.230
7.954
129
!m.
por
931
OF
449
8
195.
sio
: 5.
25
1.41
-x
1,100
9
1
.10
4.4:0
20
4i
i
83
'
，.
7
13,01.
14.
○..
to
1;
5.31
1.703
2..
y
1
2.1
1
unpano
★
DLCNONCORAPHLANAMERA

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 21
Peru
ber, 1940, and by an annual "Business Census"
wherein Japanese were required to list details
As early as 1873, Peru had established of-
of their business, including net worth, gross
ficial relations with the Japanese Government.
business and profits.
However, Japanese immigration to Peru and the
Information has been received from an
development of commerce did not become important
official Japanese scurce concerning the number
until after 1900. In 1897, definite plans were
of Japanese residing throughout the world. A
made by the Japanese for colonizing in Peru,
series of maps and charts based upon data
because of a labor shortage there. living condi-
compiled as of 1935, depicted the number of
tions proved to be very poor and many of the
their nationals living abroad, their enterpriees
Japanese imm1grants either died or returned to
and the distribution of Japanese products. The
Japan. Other unsuccessful attempts were made
statement was made that there were 1,146,462
to colonize in 1903 and 1904; nowever, those
Japanese nationals living in countries foreign
Japanese immigrants who arrived between 1914
to Japan in October, 1935.
and 1939 were successful and Peru with Brazil
JAPANESE ORGANIZATIONS
led Latin America in effective colonization.
With the growth of the Japanese colonies in
Background
Peru, strong resentment toward the Japanese was
displayed by the Peruvians. In order to over-
Of the various elements which have shaped
come this hostility, tne Japanese immigrants
the lives of the Japanese in Latin America,
stressed the theory that the Incas who had set-
their organizations have been the most active
tled in Peru, were originally from Japan, and,
and far-reaching. This may be attributed to the
therefore, the Japanese and Peruvians were of
Japanese psychology growing from the family sys-
the same basic racial stock. However, this
tem. It has been for centuries an institution
theory was not favorably received by the ma-
of vital importance in Japan. Every decision of
jority of the people.
any consequence in a Japanese person's life is
JAPANESE RESIDING ABROAD, OCTOBER I, 1938
Country
Malo
Female
Total
Total 1933
world (total)
598,490
461,423
1,059,913
759,158
Asia (total)
317,938
240,807
558,745
277,140
Manchuria
233,842
184,473
418,315
182,601
China Proper
54,379
41,129
95,508
55,064
Philippines
17,248
8,589
25,837
20,400
North America (total)
82,406
59,989
142,395
130,577
United States
67,039
48,734
115,773
103,765
Canada
13,140
9,905
23,045
20,393
Mexico
1,487
1,058
2,545
5,297
dawaii
78,830
37,020
115.850
149,207
South American (total) 114,790
86,03C
200,820
185,546
Brazll
95,116
75,049
170,165
157,476
Argentina
4,828
1,831
6,659
5,334
Uruguay
56
33
89
37
Paraguay
293
227
520
5
Peru
13,261
8,242
21,503
21,281
Bolivia
5y1
284
875
627
Chile
450
245
695
635
Colompia
175
114
289
144
Venezuela
20
5
25
7
Source: Japanese Foreign Office statistics
GOVERNMENT ATTITUDE
the result of a discussion by, and the judgment
of, the family group. The family must approve
The Japanese Government has exhibited an
any action which may affect them as a whole or
unusual interest in the number, accomplishments
individually. In matters of less limited scope
and enterprises of its overseas residents. It
his associates are consul ted and finally the
has termed them "Pioneers of Overseas Expansion"
Japanese Government itself has grown from the
and "National Expansion Pioneers" and endeavored
family sys tem and is a government by groups
to compile statistics not only as to their num-
rather than of individuals. A Japanese hesi-
ber but relating to their property, businesses
tates to act as an individual as he is con-
and public or other positions. Tnis interest
strained by his inherited mental background to
has been displayed in the western Hemisphere by
seek the advice of his associates, or at least
their quinquennial census, last taken in Novem-
discuss his problems with them. For centuries
☆
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
+

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 22
THE THIRD SUNDAY CLUB OF LIMA, A SOCIAL CLUB OF THE LEADERS OF THE JAPANESE COLONY IN LIMA, FOUNDED
IN MAY OF 1926.
large and authoritative, assuming quasi-govern-
these people have lived a socially integrated
mental powers.
and minutely directed life. As a result, the
These organizations nad various functions.
Japanese are clannisn and, being passive in tem-
Some existed to promote education, others to
perament and respectful of authority, function
further religious principles and beliefs and
more readily as groups. Thus, the Japanese have
many were composed of Japanese living in the
often been described as successful organizers
same section or area or from the same prefecture,
from a standpoint of botn government and busi-
town or place of residence in Japan, a natural
ness affairs.
expression of a common interest. Some were
formed to furtner tne interests of trade, busi-
It is known that the Japanese, particularly
ness or professional groups and can be compared
those born in Japan, are disposed to organize
to guilds, and others were solely for social ac-
for almost every conceivable purpose. Almost
tivities. Many had no other purpose tnan that
without exception alien Japanese, particularly
expressed by their names or in the constitutions
those of education or s ame business standing,
and by-laws adopted by them, and others were dis-
are members of one or more groups. The early
tinctly nationalistic or with a much wider scope
Japanese immigrants were primarily agricultural
of purpose than a superficial examination would
laborers and not well educated or able to speak
disclose.
the Spanish language and mingle freely with
It is apparent that the Japanese Government
other racial groups. They tended to segregate
and pro-Japan Jeaders of the Japanese communi-
themselves because of racial differences and con-
ties in Latin America recognized the value of
fine their assoc1ations to persons of their own
these organizations as a means of disseminating
race. This proclivity resulted in the formation
Japanese propaganda not only among their members
of organizations primarily concerned witn their
but among the Caucasian elements,by the distribu-
own security and welfare and social groups com-
tion of printed matter, by lectures, and by en-
posed, in the main, of persons from the same pre-
couraging subscriptions to Japanese bonds. It
fectures in Japan much like the American state
was also apparent that the Japanese Government
societies as they were disposed to mingle cnief-
considered the use of these organizations as a
1y with people from their home provinces. As
means of controlling their nationals residing in
the Japanese population grew and they became
I.atin America by delegating to them consular
more familiar witn the land in which they were
functions and duties. Japanese consular offi-
living, these associations became more diverse
cials have commented that the Japanese associ-
in character. Some of the organizations became
ations were showing signs of decline with the
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.89)
PRE-WAR ORGANIZATION OF A TYPICAL
JAPANESE COMMUNITY
JAPANESE BUSINESS
JAPANESE FOREIGN
PREFECTURAL
ARMY AND NAVY
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
HOUSES IN JAPAN
MINISTRY
GOVERNMENTS
MINISTRIES
JAPANESE
JAPANESE CHAMBER
RELIGIOUS SECTS
IMPERIAL EDUCATIONAL
OVERSEAS SOCIETY
OF COMMERCE
HOME OFFICES
ASSOCIATION
Al organizations above
this point are located
in Japen.
ECONOMIC GROUPS
ORGANIZATION
CONSULAR
OBGAMIZATION
SOCIAL
DRGANIZATION
RELIGIOUS
ORG UIZATION
EDUCATIONAL
BOCHE T NID
contan ad 
 S
10M00A1
B8CET1
COMSULM
CPILI
ER 
COFTACTS
BECTS
NOTE:
— INDICATES ADVISORY TIES OR
COLLATERAL INFLUENCE
本

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 24
decreasing number of aging first-generation Japa-
institutions, because of the nationalism inher-
nese and therefore one of their principal prob-
ent in Japanese Buddhism and Snintoism, served
lems was the strengthening of these organiza-
as a means of developing the Japanese spirit and
tions and the guidance of Nisei societies which
holding before tneir adherents Japanese ideals.
may become their successors. This concern ex-
The Japanese spo:ts organizations played their
tended to the payment of funds to re-establish
part in the development of Japanism. For ex-
organizations and to provide part of the operat-
ample, the Dai Nippon Butoku Kai, translated as
ing expenses. It is also known that the Japa-
the Imperlal Japanese Military Virtue Society,
nese consulates throughout the world have com-
sought. to teach 1ts members the "military vir
piled directories of the Japanese organizations.
tues" of judo and kendo (jiu jitsu and J apanese
These directories did not distinguish between
fencing) and the ethical code of Bushido, the
their interest in organizations in the western
"Way of the warrior," a philosophy held before
Hemisphere and, for example, China, where Japan
the Japanese civilian and soldier as the highest
has extraterritorial rights. Tney point out
ideal. The organizations most antagonistic to
that the Japanese organizations named therein
democratic ideals and dangerous to the internal
were under the "jurisdiction" of the Japanese
security were those appropriately classed as
consulate located in the country or district
patriotic societies which existed to encourage
where the organization existed. This official
the development of the Japanese military machine,
attitude toward the organizational efforts of
patriotism to Japan and Japanese expansion.
the "overseas" Japanese culminated in the pro-
motion of the Overseas Japanese Central Society,
the Kaigai Dono Chuokai. The formation of the
Overseas Japanese Central Society also indicated
that the Japanese Government was embarking on a
program whereby the Japanese organizations could
be more effectively used to augment their war
program by wel ding them into a single cohesive
body under tninly di sguised direct government
control.
The value of associations and the power of
peo ple together is well recognized in Japan.
Their use of nationalistic or political organi-
zations and their views about the power and in-
fluence of associations can be best illustrated
by the legal restrictions placed upon tnem in
Japan. Wartime legislation of Japan incorporat-
ed in 1ts "Peace Preservation Law" of March 8,
1941, concerned w1 th subversive groups in Japan,
contains the provisions that:
"A person wno has organized an association
with the object of changing the national policy
or a person who has performed the work of an
officer or other leader of such an association
shall be condemned to death or punished wi th
penal servitude for life or not less than seven
ICHITARO MORIMOTO, FOUNDER OF THE JAPANESE CEN-
years, and a person who knowingly has joined
TRAL SOCIETY IN PERU AND OFFICER IN THE FEDER-
such an association or a person who has com-
ATION OF JAPANESE ASSOCIATIONS AND THE PERUVIAN
mitted an act contributing to the accomplisiment
JAPANESE CULTURAL ASSOCIATION. ONE OF THE MOST
ofits object shall be punished with penal servi-
RESPECTED MEMBERS OF THE JAPANESE COLONY, HE WAS
tude for a limited period not less than seven
CONSIDERED TO BE THE MOST OUTSTANDING INDIVIDUAL
years."
JAPANESE IN THE COUNTRY, AND WAS PRESIDENT OF
Other sections of the 1aw provide harsh pen-
THE CENTRAL SOCIETY FIVE DIFFERENT TIMES. HE
alties for other kinds of organizational activi-
ACQUIRED PERUVIAN CITIZENSHIP SOME YEARS AFTER
ty such as a term of not less than four years
HIS ARRIVAL FROM JAPAN. HE WAS DEPORTED TO THE
for promoting an association "impairing the
UNITED STATES FROM PERU JANUARY 18, 1944.
sanctity and digni ty of the Shrines (Shinto) and
the Imperial Household."
The framework of the Japanese system of or-
Tne Japanese associations also served as a
ganizations consists of a series of pyramids
bond wi th the mother country by extending the
within a large pyramid, with the Japanese Con-
observances and practices of the people in Japan
sulate at its apex and its influence penetrating
to this country tnrough such means as the cele
and permeating the entire structure. The dis-
bration of national nolidays, empnasizing Japa-
tinction between these types 1s often somewhat
nese culture and furthering racial pride and
vague as the associations were, at their incep-
vanity as well as maintaining a constant contact
tion, primarily social in nature and retained
wi th Japan. The educational organizations obvi-
many of those characteristics because of the
ouslydeveloped racial consciousness through
various interests of the members. Few can be
the teaching of not only the Japanese 1anguage
accurately described as being completely wi thin
but Japanese history and ethics. The religious
bounds of one character or of a single purpose.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 25
秘露日本人會盟
THE FOURTH GENERAL MEETING OF THE FEDERATION OF JAPANESE ASSOCIATIONS IN PERU, I939.
A study of tnese organizations disclosed
intimate relationsnip which existed between them
that the influence or authority of the Japanese
as illustrated by interlocking membership and
Government flowed through them in channels inter-
the similarity and often duplication of their
locked through duplication of activity and by
functions. These were the leading organizations
the plurality of positions held by many indi-
wi thin the Japanese communi ties as their members
vidual Japanese. It was a common practice for
were the more influential Japanese merchants,
Buddhist priests to be at the same time princi-
professional men, and representatives of Japa-
pals of Japanese language schools or affiliated
nese business houses. As they were the larg-
with an organization whose interests placed it
est and most powerful of the organizations,
in a category other than religious. The five
these were looked to for the formulation and
major channels of intluence, or classes of or-
application of the attitudes and policies of the
ganizations, considered from a national defense
Japanese communities. No effort will be made to
standpoint, are the Japanese diplomatic estab-
describe or even list all of these organizations
lishment, religious organizations, economic
and their member groups but several exemplifying
associations, educational organizations, and
the entire category will be discussed in some
social clubs, a generic term including sports
detail.
and athletic associations, prefectural clubs,
The first type of organization to be con-
often termed "place of origin" societies and
sidered in this category are those federations
patriotic or nationalistic associations.
of Japanese societies formerly existing in
Economic Organizations
states or areas which contained large concentra-
tions of Japanese. There were several charac-
In tids category are placed the Japanese
teristics common to all of them. The most out-
associations formed along occupational lines and
standing was that their headquarters invariably
those principally economic in nature. A strict
were established in cities where consulates were
ivision, placing each in an exact posi tion, can-
situated and that their field, or sphere of in-
not be made because of their secondary aims and
fluence, covered, in effect, the identical geo-
the economic aspects of other associations con-
graphical area as that under the jurisdiction of
sidered in different categories.
the consul ate in the headquarters city. This is
Civic and commercial associations and the
of particular interest in view of the statement
central or uni ted societi es are di scussed to-
in the official Japanese publications previously
gether as economic organizations because of the
mentioned that certain organizations were under
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 26
were situated. Their leaders are usually men of
substance held in respect and therefore influ-
ential among their countrymen.
Nationalistic and Patriotic Associations
Japan abounds with patriotic societies de-
veloped from the constant indoctrination of the
people with "Yamato Damashii," the Japanese
spirit; Bushido, the "Way of the Warrior"; the
precepts of the Shinto Cult, particularly its
deification of the Emperor; the enshrinement of
war heroes; and emphasis on military achieve-
ment.
The Japanese emigres carried to Latin Ameri-
ca not only the beliefs they had been taught but
the institutions arising from them. Hence, they
JAPANESE FARMLAND
JAPANESE HOMES
the jurisdiction of designated consulates.
established counterparts of the patriotic and
These organizations were founded at the sugges-
nationalistic societies existing in Japan, many
tion of the consuls for the obvious purpose of
being modeled after the organizations in that
simplifying the control and correlation of the
country. Associations of this kind were of dis-
Japanese and Japanese affairs and providing a
tinct worth to the Japanese Government as they
vehiele through which the desires of the consul
strengthened nationalism and were a lucrative
could be expressed and the conduct of the Japa-
source of revenue.
nese guided.
The patriotic and nationalistic associations
The basic group in their organizational
may be divided into three broad categories:
structure was the "Nihonjin Kai," translated
veterans associations, patriotic contribution
simply as Japanese association, a mutual inter-
societies and organizations for the propagation
est society predicated upon the common bond
of Bushido and other Japanese codes of ethics
existing between persons of Japanese ancestry
designed to further Japanese ideologies.
and particularly those of sole Japanese nation-
These organizations were made up almost ex-
ality. These organizations, often social in
clusively of persons distinctly Japanese in
character, are found in all Japanese colonies
culture and loyalty and membership within them
and are invariably termed "Nihonjin Kai" pre-
was indicative of at least a passive desire for
fixed by the name of the locality in which they
Japanese military and economic superiority.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.96)
Pa27
MEETING IN LIMA CELEBRATING TENTH ANNIVERSARY OF OKINAWAN SOCIETY. FEATURES OF OKINAWANS APPEAR TO
BE SOMEWHAT DIFFERENT FROM THOSE OF JAPANESE FROM JAPAN PROPER. AT THE TIME OF THIS MEETING, THE
OKINAWAN SOCIETY HAD A MEMBERSHIP OF 5OO.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 28
Chapter 3
RELIGION AND LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
JAPANESE RELIGIONS AND LATIN AMERICA
considered inimical to the Japanese spirit s
Background
well as to control national thinking. A law
for the control of religious organizations,
Many expositions and allegations have been
previously referred to, went into effect on
made regarding the place of religdon in Japanese
April 1, 1940, which provided for the minute
life in the Western Hemisphere as well as in
control and even police supervision of religious
Japan. Some have held that their religious be
bodies through the delegation of the powers
lief's, except Shinto, are not incompatible with
granted to the Ministry of Education. The 1939
Western 1deals. Others have claimed these
Jiji Year Book published in Japan summarized
nationalistic religions retard the Westerniza-
the reasons that led to the establishment of
tion of Japanese born here, and are the factors
the law:
in preventing the assimilation of their elders
into the life of their adopted countries.
"The purposes of enactment were, in part,
The danger in Japanese religions lies not
to provide in an essential manner for the pro-
in their esoteric doctrines and beliefs but in
tection and control of religious organizations
their use as a cloak to disseminate propaganda
and to set up much stricter regulations affect-
and spread a belief in Japan's invincibility
ing their relations to public peace and welfare
and the righteousness of its policies. This
and thereby contribute to the heal thy growth of
danger is exemplified by their own commentaries
civilization."
on their use of religion in the furthering of
Comment has been made that the primary inten-
their peculiar racial theories and the extreme
tion of this law was merely part of the procedure
measures taken to effect complete control of
of a highly centralized state in bringing under
religious bodies in Japan for the benefit of the
unified control all the agencies of popular
"National Polity" through the enactment of
echication and propaganda. The religlous bodies
stringent wartime legislation.
l aw provides for rigorous control over all
Heligion has generally been recognized by
phases of religion and includes the supervision
the Japanese as a powerful political force and
of elections within the organization, 1ts pur
it nas affected tieir intellectual development.
poses and its acts, referring broadly to acts
A review of the history of Japan discloses tuat
which violate laws and ordinances or are of such
the early learning and the development of that
a nature as to harm the public welfare.
Empire were largely in the hands of the Buddhist
priests. Buddhism brought in the civilization
Conversely, the hypothesis expressed in this
of China in the sixth century and established
legisl ation leads to the conclusion that the
the written language, art and cul ture of the
apanese have used their owm religlous organize
Japanese. Historically the priests were the
tions in the foreign nations, as well as in
educated group and were looked upon as leaders
Japan, as a medium of political indoctrination
in their communities.
and for the dissemination of propaganda. It is
Formerly, in Japan, the Buddhist priests,
known that the Japanese are using religions
as educated men, served as the teachers and
and religious bodies in occupied eastern terri-
leaders of their people and recorded matters
tories as a means of winning the support of the
such as vital statistics in their temple re-
natives and as instruments to further their
cords. This situation existed at the time most
expansion. A general Buddhist council has been
Japanese immigrated to America, and, wi th their
established for East As1a at Shanghai and the
religious beliefs, they brougit with them the
Mosl em League has been expanded by the sponsor-
attendant practices and customs. Because of
ing of meetings of Mohammedan natives in Indo-
the respect in which they were held in Japan
nesia and Mal aya. The organization of Christian
and as the only group of educated men among
groups under Japanese governmental supervision
immigrants largely farmers and laborers, the
is also encouraged.
priests early gained power and prestige and set
As a further indication that the Japanese
the patterm of behavior of Japanese in foreign
government recognized religious institutions as
countries. Many Japanese abroad were dependent
media for the dissemination of propaganda, it
upon the priests for communication with their
is noted that the Chief of, the American Bureau
relatives in the homeland. In many instances,
of the Foreign Office, Yoshizawa, in 1940,
the priests acted as teachers in the Japanese
called together American missionaries in Tokyo,
language schools.
Japan, and asked them to distribute literature
The use of religion as a vehicle of popular
on various aspects of Japanese policy, such as a
education in propaganda by the Japanese may be
justification of Japan's position in the Sino-
best illustrated by the attitude of the Japanese
Japanese war and other pamphlets designed to
government toward religious institutions in
promote American-Japanese friendship.
Japan, and their efforts to centralize control
The importance of religlon to the average
and thereby reject doctrines and theologies Japanese is sometimes overemphasized because of
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 29
their tendency toward agnosticism, leaving tem-
people, which comprehends not only their moral-
ple and shrine attendance to the women and old
ity but their religion culminating in centripe-
men except for important events; but religion
tal Mikadoism or their own peculiar form of
is an important form of social control affect-
loyalty or patriotism towards the Divine Ruler,
ing the primary unit of the Japanese governmen-
the united head, both political and religious,
tal structure, the family. Buddhism, as a means
in a government theocratioo-patriarchal as well
of maintaining family soliuarity, serves to
as constitutional." The Japan Year Book for
keep the Japanese amenable to discipline, while
1940-1941 contains the statement that Shintois
the national cult, Shinto, serves as a device to
"has no doctrine or creed of any kind other than
retain national solidarity in that it ties
the worship offered to the Imperial ancestors
Japanese communities, whether in Jepan or in
and other ancestral spirits".
Latin America, with the national shrine at Ise
where the "Divine Ancestress" is worshiped. It
State Shinto
is the foundation of Japanese nationalism and
The ancient Shinto dogma was in effect
the keys tone of the character of the Japanese,
codified for use as a political instrument by
stressing their divinity and invincibility,
the Japanese government upon its emergence as a
their superiority, and furthering their con-
modern state wi thout distinguishing between
viction of carrying out a sacred duty in dis-
my thology and authentic history. The Japanese
charging obligations imposed upon them by the
government has insisted on the non-religious
Emperor and thus the Japanese government.
nature of Shinto and has described the official
Carrying this conviction in cheir minds makes
shrines as "national institutions of an ethical
it difficult for them to be loyal to foreign
and historical character and places where all
nations in wiicn they reside.
Japanese subjects can offer reverence," al though
as 1ate as January 12, 1933, according to the
Shinto Cult
Japan Advertiser, published in Tokyo, the Shinto
Commission was said to nave been unable to agree
The Shinto Cult is inextricably interwoven
whether or not Shrine Shinto is a religion. Re-
into the mythology, government and policies of
fusal to participate in State Shinto ceremonials
Japan. It has been termed the national religion
was said to have become "not simply an act of
and the religion indigenous to the Japanese
irreligion; it involves disloyalty to the state."
people yet the Bureau of Shrines of the Japanese
The political necessity for State Shinto was
Ministry of Home Affairs contends "that from the
explained by Professor Nagao Arita:
standpoint of national law, the Shrines are
"In the case of a civilized country there
not organs of religion." An interesting light
must exist freedom of faith. As Shinto is a
was thrown on this view by the Shinto Commis-
religion, however, the acceptance or refusal
sion which later adopted a policy of treating
thereof must be left to personal choice. Yet
State Shinto as a national affair above religion.
for a Japanese subject to refuse to honor the
Shintoism may be considered not only an expres-
ancestors of the Emperor is disloyal. Indeed,
sion of patriotism but a political instrument
a Japanese out of his duty as a subject must
of extraordinary value to the Japanese in the
honor the ancestors of the Eperor. This cannot
unification of their peoples. Shinto, the "way
be a matter of choice. It is a duty. Therefore,
of the Gods," is, in its essence, a worship of
this cannot be regarded as a religion. It is a
the Emperor of Japan and a system of patriotism
ritual. It is the ceremony of gratitude to
and loyal ty centering in Emperor worship.
ancestors. ...Hence, there has arisen the neces
Genchi kato, the holder of the Chair of Shinto
sity of making a distinction between Shinto
at the Imperial University in Tokyo, states in
regarded as the function of national ritual and
"What is Shinto" that "the national Shinto
that Shinto which proclaims doctrines as a
faith, as distinguished from sectarian Shinto,
religion."
is the Japanese 'religion of loyalty.' It is,
Thus, by declaring the State Shinto is not a
in fact, a Japanese patriotism suffused with
religion, the requirements of reverence to the
religious emotion; or, in other words, a pecul-
Imperial Ancestors are not considered an inter
iar enthusiastic patriotic sentiment, often
ference wi th the Japanese constitutional guaran-
soaring into the plane of adoration or religious
tee of "freedom of religious belief."
worship, towards the lmperor or Mikado, a mani-
State Shinto preserves the mythological and
fest deity in the sense of theanthropie religion.
ideological content of the beliefs or rituals of
I should, indeed, call it a form of Emperor
the ancient period of Japan, adding to this
worship or Mikadoism, a fai th in the Divine
legacy the more recent pronouncements on the
Ruler; a manifestation, coupled with religious
nature of the official cult. It is said that
zeal or 'the Soul of I apan.' In Japan the
"State Shinto has filled the Japanese national
reigning Emperor is a legitimate descendant of
mind with notions of a noble past ricn in great
divine lineage while the Imperial Ancestress 1s
traditions, a superior racial stock destined to
revered as a great deity at Ise, so that 'the
endure as an eternal national family, and a
Divine Grace of the ancestral goddess pledges
matchless state headed by an unbroken, inviola-
to bestow tranquillity and wel fare upon the
ble, divinely descended Imperial dynasty...
Empire.'" Kato summarized his views of Shinto-
Shinto Shrine loyalty is an integral part of
ism by s aying "the vital essence of Shinto
the program for the standardization of national
manifests itself in ai expression of that unique
thougnts and action." From childhood the Japa-
spirit of the national service of the Japanese
nese are indoctrinated with the 1dea that Shrine
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 30
loyalty and patriotism are 1dentical. Dr. D. C.
Vehicle" or Southem Buddhism. Shortly after
Hol tom, a student of Shinto, nas stated "Shinto
the appearance of this religion in Japan six
has been a primary agency in the creation of a
new sects were formed, three of which continue
unified and vigorous national purpose and 1t
until this day. The Huddhimm of Japan is not
must not be overlooked in making any inventory
that of India. For some time the religion re-
of tne important items involved in tie extension
mained Chinese in its main features but with the
of Japanese political control and cul tural in-
founding of the Tendai and the Shingon sects
fluance on the Asiatic continent and el sewhere."
"a strong national bent was given to it by the
influence of the national genius" througn the
Sectarian Shinto
application of the theory that Shinto deities
are manifestations of Buddhas and Bodhisattvas,
There are many kinds of "Popular Shinto"
which was "carried to its logical conclusion
belief's which include a wide variety of local
with the growth of Double Aspect Buddhism."
spirits and deities honored at wayside shrines;
After two and one-half centuries in Japan,
thhese deities are associated with agricul ture,
Buddhism almost enveloped tne people but, to
the sea, heal th, natural phenomena and the like.
solve the problem of reconciliation between the
These are all part of the polytheism of Shinto
ancient traditions of the divine ancestors of
and reach back to tne early clan deities and
Shinto and the dogmas of Buddhism, it was neces-
serve to unify local groups wno may be protected
sary to convert a line of theocratic emperors
by the same deities in a village shrine. Popu-
whose authori ty was derived from their alleged
lar Shinto also gives the Japanese confidence
divine origin into patrons and propagandists of
in the face of the uncertainties of life. Many
Buddhism and to transform indigenous shinto gods
of the talismen or amulets carried by the Japa-
to Buddhas or prospective Buddhas. Buddhism,
nese are associated w1th the "Popular Shinto"
an elastic and compromising religion, was able
beliefs.
In addi tion to State Shinto aia these popu-
to adapt itself to the Japanese environment
and became a distinctly Japanese religion "fully
lar beliefs and practices there are tatrteen
naturalized" by absorbing Shinto gods with the
formally organized sects of Shinto compuralle in
growth of "Double Aspect Buddnism" (Hyobu) or
function to the Buddnist sects and whi ch usually
"Double Aspect Shinto" if viewed from the Shinto
take the place of Buddhist belief's al though,
point of view. This amalgamation was so com-
ordinarly, State Shinto and Sectarian or Popular
plete tnat Shinto disappeared as a religion for
Shinto do not interfere with the adierence to
almost a thousand years, cnanging even the
other religious beliefs.
Japanese mythology.
Buddhism
Buddhism seeks to regain 1ts former position
in Japan and nas embraced its rising nationalism
Buddnism is not exclusively a Japanese relig-
much as it had the Shinto Pantheon in its early
ion but was imported much as was Ci risti anity at
years. Its adaptability and capacity as an
a later date. It bmught with it a well develop-
ideological instrument was displayed in a bro-
ed civilization and a cul ture which persists in
chure beginning to find distribution within the
Japan to this day and in this sense may be con-
Western Hemisphere entitled "New Japanism and
sidered analogous to the western civilization
the Buddhist View on Nationality" by Junjiro
assimilated since the appearance of Commodore
Takakusu published in Japan on July 15, 1938.
Perry. Buddhism was introduced into Japan by
It was found to be along nationalistic lines,
way of Korea in 552 A.l). when a king of one of
seeking to bl end the new Japanism and Buddhism
the Korean states, troubled by civil war, solic-
into a single mold, emphasizing the heritage of
1ted the aid of Japan anu presented sutras
the Japanese and their "2600 years of glorious
(scriptures) and images to the court. After
history." Its theme was "the cul ture of the
some objection by the conservative Shintoists,
blood, " the welding together of the Japanese
the religion was accepted by the Mikado and was
into a superior race spiritually and economical-
followed by importation of architects and ar-
1y, and to achieve this end, recommended "self-
tists. Buddnism shortly became established as
lessness as taught by Buddnism." It stated:
the chief religion of Japan, though Shinto was
"The New Japanism must possess an embracing
never entirely eclipsed. with Buddhism came the
power over all the knowledge and crafts of the
introduction of Chinese civilization and the
world, but it must be serere in selecting them.
nation acquired the cul ture of China and the
Also its progressing power must aim to be one
Asiatic continent. Fbr centuries all education
step aliead of its competitors." It would thus
was in Buddhist hands as were the treatment of
seem that the loyalty of Buddhist priests to
the sick and kindred endeavors. Buddhism intro-
Japan may outweigh their clerical obligations.
duced medicine, moulded the folk lore of the
country, created its literature and deeply in-
LANGUAGE SCHOOLS
fluenced politics and every sphere of social
activity.
Background
Chinese and horean Buddhism was broken up
The Japanese language schools are, and have
into a number of sects prior to the time it
been, almost since their inception, regarded as
reached Japan. All of these differed widely in
their teachings from the original Buddhism of
impediments to the assimilation of Japanese in
Ceylon and India. Japanese Buddhism follows
foreign nations and as tending to hold apart
what is termed the Northern School, or the
and divide the Japanese from the rest of the
"Greater Vehicle" as opposed to tne "Lesser
community. This has been true in Latin America
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 31
and elsewhere. The aims and the objectives of
society if they spoke the language. One Japa-
the Japanese language schools have been attacked
nese stated, "Politically, Japanese are sensi-
on the grounds that they aimed at the promotion
tive about racial equalities; the rising of
and preservation of Japanese cultural ties and
their mother country to be one of the great
instilled in the young Japanese mind the princi-
powers of the world adds to the pride of the
ples and traditions of Japan by teaching a Japa-
long continued nistory of an unconquered people
nese code of ethics including full obedience to
......It is the reaction against this racial
the Emperor of Japan, thus creating a social
treatment of inequality for which they are so
problem by making their students believe that
anxious to find some remedy in order to confirm
they were first of all Japanese and thus reluc-
their self-confidence, and at the same time
tant to become citizens of any other country.
justify their claim to equality with tne Occi-
The effect of these schools has been not only
dentals. A movement of 'Kokusui-Hozon,' the
to prevent assimilation of the Japanese but to
prevaluation and preservation of national cul-
actively set them apart as overseas subjects
ture in Japan, is backed by the same motive.
of the Fmpire of Japan. The belief that these
What happeris in Japan affects Japanese abroad."
schools sought to teach foreign-born Japanese
This Japanese further stated that when Japa-
the essentials of patriotism to Japan was fur-
nese are discriminated against racially, a
thered by Japanese propaganda describing them
natural solace would be the thought of the
as "outposts of overseas expansion."
greatness of their mother country, and thus
Practices witiin the schools such as the
they encouraged their children to learn the
hanging of placards urging "loyalty to the
Japanese language and Japanese cul ture so their
Emperor and country," the closing of schools in
children might nave a sense of respect for
honor of the Emperor's birthday, the reading of
their race and not feel inferior to the Occi-
the Imperial Rescript on Education and the use
dentals who built up the civilization surround-
of textbooks and other material tending to en-
ing them.
gender loyalty and patriotism to Japan, led to
Japanese nave contended they did not feel
measures calculated to restrain these schools
satisfied with the ethical instruction given in
from becoming agencies of Japan.
the foreign schools, particularly as their
Many Japanese viewed the language schools
education does not stress filial piety, the
from an economic standpoint, believing that a
foundation of the social, economic and political
knowledge of the Japanese language would be
structures of Japan. It nas been asserted that
advantageous to their children in international
Japan, as a state, is built upon the principle
commerce and business. Socially, they felt
of filial piety. Phey nave always criticized
that foreign-born Japanese, who were not free
foreign education in that it is deficient in
to enjoy Occidental society, would be able to
stoicism and in manners suitable to the alien
satisfy their social aspirations in Japanese
Japanese mind and Japanese ways. The Japanese
TT
PUPILS OF THE JAPANESE PRIMARY SCHOOL OF LIMA
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 32
newspapers also encouraged the establishment of
at first were principally indentured laborers
Japanese language schools and the teaching of
who proposed to accumulate sufficient money to
the language, by devoting space for educational
enable them to return to Japan and live in com-
purposes as well as furthering the natural de-
fort. In some countries they had no plan of
sires of the children to read the newspapers
colonization and did not expect to remain more
of their fathers. Another factor strengthening
than a few years. In other countries there were
the language schools was that many foreign-born
colonies. In either case, they considered a
Japanese returned to Japan for their education,
Japanese education necessary to impart to their
which, of course, required more than a casual
children an understanding of the Japanese lan-
knowledge of the language.
guage and Japanese life to fit them for future
Other reasons have been given for the
residence in Japan.
growth of Japanese language schools, among them
being that schools provide a place for the care
Alienating Influences
of the children after the regular school hours;
that they are a moral agency, safeguarding the
The belief that the Japanese language
children; and that the schools equip them with a
schools alienated the foreign-born Japanese was
sufficient knowledge of Japanese to play their
based essentially upon the character of text-
part as members of a Japanese family.
books utilized in these schools and the alien
The Jàpanese language schools have been
status of many of the teachers, and also on the
viewed with suspicion, principally because of
public observances of Japanese holidays, the
their ethical teachings and the interest which
display of articles nationalistic in character,
the Japanese Government had shown in them.
periodi cal inspections by Japanese educators
It has also been stated that these schools
and commendations of the Japanese Government.
are not only a channel of propaganda, but a de-
The texts originally adopted by these
vice to conceal Japan's intelligence agents, and
schools abroad were those used in the public
it is known that some of the language school
schools of Japan.
An examination of these texts disclosed
teachers were Japanese Consular Agents.
that they contained many stories very patriotic
Justification
and nationalistic in character. For example,
The Japanese emigres who came to Latin Amer-
the Japanese Reader for the first of the prima-
icain the latter part of the nineteenth century,
ry grades contained many stories of Japanese
JAPANESE SCHOOL AT JAGUAL, COLOMBIA
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
Pagé 33
soldiers and an illustration of the Japanese
dren the Japanese language.
flag with the caption, "The Flag of Japan, Long
"Our nation is under God-Emperors of
May It Fly Eternally." It also contained
unbroken lineage and has become a matchless
photographs of Japanese war equipment and de-
nation in the world, and still continues to
scriptions of military life, commenting that
move forward. Our language is also continuous
"the best pl ace to be" was in the Japanese Army
from the beginning of our nation to the present.
or Navy.
Japanese language, therefore, became a ring of
Another textbook outlined the mythological
wedlock between the feelings and spirits of our
creation of Japan, with the statement that:
forefathers, and so we, too, today are tied to-
"Each successive ruler has loved his
gether as one-body citizens. Had it not been
people as children. He is the great parent.
for our Japanese language, our 1deals today
Therefore with unified nearts let us become the
would have been seattered from place to place.
followers of loyalty and patriotism. There is
Tnus, in marching forward in time of national
no other country with such a royel lineage. Be
difficulty and shouting 'Banzai' to make our
thankful you are & Japanese and worship the
Emperor happy, one must admit the Japanese lan-
Imperial family....From the time the subjects
guage is a shameless language. This way, the
have endeavored to maintain and protect their
Japanese language holds the nation and its
splendid nation, all exert tnemselves as one
citizens together.
body, one mind and one family with loyal ty and
"Those who forget the Japanese language
patriotism for the progress of the nation. our
are not Japanese. Respect the Japanese 1an-
contry has the oldest royal lineage. The prog-
guage. Iove the Japanese language. The nation-
ressive nation feels sorry for te other na-
al language is the place where the spirits of
tions."
our citizens reside."
Reader Number Four designed for junior high
Another book in the same series contained
schools contained a lesson entitled, "National
the admonition that:
Language and Patriotism," calculated to en-
"it is our duty to carry on the great
gender wi thin the pupils a pride in Japan and
spirit of loyalty to the Emperor and try to
in tie Japanese race. A translation of this
achieve his aims. we must also try to under-
lesson is:
stand the Government of our nat ion and the prob-
lems confronting it. Always love your country
"In tne unification of the Japanese
and your Fmperor. We must never forget what we
people who possess the proud and noble Yamatc
learn, if we do all this we will become good
spirit, the genuine Japanese language has always
Japanese."
been the only instrument. The Japanese language
Book six of the Japanese Reader discussed
is a spiri tual blood that circulates among Japa-
military flags and the respect to be accorded
nese, and Japanese people unify by this spirit-
to them. It described Japanese submarines,
ual blood.
including tne assertion that:
"This bond is so strong that it perpet~
"Sometimes we quietly sneak into our
uates a chain which cannot easily be broken.
enemies' harbors without warning and attack our
Should there be any great crisis in the nation,
people willingly put all their energy together
enemies' battleships."
and do their best, despite nardships and even
Book seven described daily life in the Japa-
death. And if tnere is good news, Japanese
nese Army, the splendid food and the "joy of
people from south to north, all sing the nation-
serving the Emperor." It told how patriotic
al anthem 'Kimigayo' and bless the nation upon
Japanese rally to the call of the royal family,
its fortune.
and exhorted students to show patriotism and
"The Japanese language is like a 'lovely
loyalty.
mother' for ali our Japanese people. From our
The readers from which these excerpts were
birth, this mother nolds us on her lap and sin-
taken were for use in the first through the
cerely teaches us nationalism and national appre
fourth grades in primary schools.
ciation. Passionate love of this mother is just
The remaining books of the series, intended
like the sun in the sky. As citizens of this
for higher grades, continued much in the same
country and offspring of this nation, who would
vein. Exemplary of their contents are stories
not, in the least, admire this light!
wi th such titles as, "Lieutenant Colonel Tachi-
"Our national language is something that
bana," who is described as having given his life
cannot be forgotten in our hearts even for a
for Japan in the war against Russia and thus was
day, especially if we remember we are children
enshrined as a military god; "Lieutenant Com-
of gods. Whether we go for harvest in the fall
mander Hirose" who purportedly gave his life in
or go for lotus tlowers in the spring, there is
the cause of the Emperor; and stories of life
our language. our profound feeling is inde-
in the Japanese Navy and Army. Lesson twenty-
scribable.
eight in Book Nihe entitled, "The Power of the
"It is noble for all Japanese people to
Japanese Language," is quoted in part as illus-
respect our national language.
trative of the character of this text and the
"The objective of education, no matter
Japanese attitude toward the study of their
what country it may be, is to train shameless
l anguage:
citizens. To do this, language comes first and
".....Japanese residing in the United
history next. We must not forget, even one
States of America and Brazil have established
moment, that we are Japanese citizens."
Japanese language schools and teach their chil-
The high school readers include very similar
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 34
material, except that their contents are di-
the "Japanese Readers" published in Japan, ap-
rected to more mature minds. A lesson in one of
proved by tne Ministry of Education and believed
them entitled, "Loyalty to the Emperor and Love
to be in general use throughout the schools in
of Country," utilizes episodes in Japanese nis-
Japan as well as in foreign countries.
tory to encourage loyalty and patriotism.
It appears obvious that the Japanese lan-
guage schools indoctrinated the pupils with a
"....One may be worthy of the Japanese
point of view alien to the perspective of Latin
race, which exceeds all otner races in the world
American people; that they were designed to keep
in quality as well as in tne comparison of
the Japanese children saturated with Japanese
national prestige to other nation."
cul ture and loyal not to the Latin American
The above excerpts and descriptions were fram
nations in which they lived but to Japan.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 35
Chapter 4
ESPIONAGE PATTERN
MEANING AND SCOPE
for gathering information on every material
subject. By "collective duty" Japan means that
Usually espionage work by various countries
every Japanese in foreign countries, irrespec-
is divided into specific categories such as
tive cf nis citizenship, is sti ll a subject of
military, naval, political and economic. with
Japan and should serve the interests of the
the Japanese it is dif'ferent. They do not make
nation both in peace and in war. These people
any sharp lines of demarcation in securing
were, therefore, expected to cooperate in
espionage information. They seek to gather all
gathering the desired information for the
kinds of data. In addition to this they add the
Mother Country. In this work Japan has a long
subjeet of propaganda to the list of duties of
his tory.
their men. A good Japanese agent not only
secures information but he al so disseminates
BACKGROUND
propaganda designed to aid the cause of his
country. Likewise, he is regarded as being
The practice of seeking out and applying the
responsible for sabotage activities if tney are
knowledge of other countries to their own use is
belteved to be necessary and possible.
deeply seated in the Japanese national character.
In Latin America the Japanese followed an
Japan first benefited by assimilating the cul-
espionage pattern similar to that used by them
ture of china in one of its early cycles of evo-
in other countries. nen conditions pointed to
lution. Chinese civilization was bodily trans-
the outbreak of a second world war, the Japanese
ported to Japan with the introduction of Bud-
also began to use Latin America as a means of
dhism in the year 615 A.i). Japan modeled its
obtaining total esptonage information about the
government on the system then in China and
United States.
acquired from the Chinese the knowledge and cul-
To the Japanese, espionage work 1s a vital
ture now considered Jajanese, even their written
1 ink in their plan for world wide conquest.
language. A reaction set in against the domina-
Before the outbreak of world War Number II,
tion of Chinese influence and a more or less
Japan's espionage system was funetioning smooth-
Japinese civilization was developed from the
ly as an instrument of its expansionist policy
Chinese foundation upon the realization of its
as it is related to economic and political war-
superiority to the indigenous Japanese civiliza-
fare in foreign lands. At this time the stress
tion and the intellectual achievements of Japan
was placed on obtaining commercial information
remained predominantly Chinese in character
and advertising Japanese business in Latin
until the arrival of Commodore Perry. Through-
America and elsewnere. Economic penetration
out the Meiji Era (or the Era of Enlightened
was the immediate goal.
Rul e) from 1868 to 1912, the Japanese set out to
Tieir propaganda was carefully designed to
ass imilate Western civilization and technical
convince the Latin American people that the
knowledge much as they had the Chinese in past
soutnern continent had nothing to fear from
centuries, thus continuing a defensive policy
Japan; that Japiiese rulers wanted nothing but
of "westernization."
peace and had no imperialistie objectives.
Upon being restored to the throne, the
Japanese propaganda sought to influence the
Emperor dispatched numerous Japanese of out-
Iatin Americans so that their countries would
standing ability to all countries of the world
remain neutral in the conflict and generally
for the purpose of learning Western science,
adopt the Japanese outlook on world issues.
technology, government and military progress.
In furtnering their argument, the accusation was
These men, the "Genro" (elder statesmen), sub-
made that the Uni ted States is now exploiting
sequently became the mos t honored men in the
and eventually intends to subjugate the southern
Empire, to be emulated by those aspiring for
nations.
recognition. Japan rapidly progressed by its
Japan regarded Latin America as an important
wholesale adoption of Western science and for a
espionage field. It, therefore, devised an
long time everything that was new came from
espionage network which was to extend tnrough-
Western countries and everything from Western
out the continent. The activities of its agents
countries was considered good. This attitude
were to be coordinated with the work done by
persisted until the pendulum swung away as it
Japanese representatives in the United States
did from the Chinese influences and a reaction
and in Canada, tnereby furnishing total coverage
set in against Western achievements, causing
for the Western Hemisphere.
them to discard a number of Western cus toms and
Underlying the system of Japanese espionage
deny as far as possible that they copied Western
are two basic ideas, "totality" and "collective
material achievements explaining that they took
duty." By "totality," as previously inferred,
the good and discarded the bad, "fully natural-
they mean that no phase of life in a foreign
izing" the former by the Japanese "gift of
country snould be neglected. Their plan calls
synthesis."
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 36
The Meiji Restoration marked the beginning
and nationals in Latin America. Japan's quest
of the industrial revolution in Japan and its
for information was not limited to the produc-
metamorphosis from an agricul tural to an indus-
tive capacity and the commercial activities of
trial nation, the principal economic factor in
the Uni ted States, but included plans to surrep-
1ts present policy of expansion. This transfor-
titiously or otherwise secure full information
mation brought about the necessity for knowing
concerning the political and economic structure
all that transpired in the world, and, therefore,
of the Uni ted States and all possible data
to the Japanese mind every activity in every
relating to military and navel equipment and
foreign country merits investigation. This
strategy. Such a program was considered by the
thirst for kmowledge may aleo spring from some
Japanese as an urgently necessary phase in the
innate, if sometimes unconscious, sense of in-
development of their then future plans of con-
feriority of the Japanese people with regard to
quest.
foreigners. They know that machine invention
For many years there has been a continuous
and industrialization came from the West and
flow of information of this nature to Japan
fear that they may not be able to keep pace with
transmitted through the Japanese diplomatic
1t. The determination to do so, combined with
establishment and commercial firms, both in the
the Japanese suspicious nature and love of
Uni ted States and in Latin America. Much of the
intrigue, has imbued the people with a constant
information both commercial and military was
desire to spy on others, an attitude heightened
available through newspapers and other publica-
by their traditional obedience to superiors and
tions, particularly trade and technical journals,
their desire for the approbation of those
government records open to the inspection of
superiors.
the public such as those of the Patent Office,
MODERN PERSPECTIVE
and the reports of certain work of establish-
ments such as the Coast and Geodetic Survey. To
Japan's tradition of assimilating the knowl-
secure confidential information of a more vital
edge of foreigners and its deeply rooted gift
character, a system of espionage was necessary.
for utilizing such knowledge was an asset to
It was established as early as 1934 that the
the development of its military ambitions.
Japanese government had placed espionage agents
Japan has always been envtous of the inventive
in the Western Hemisphere under the guise of
capacity and mass-production efficiency of the
language students or Consular employees who
United States and, lacking in these, as the
were diligently exerting themselves to secure
next best alternative, sought the details of
confidential information regarding the United
American production through its representatives
States Army and Navy.
THE THREE FIGURES IN THE FOREGROUND, FROM LEFT TO RIGHT, ARE HAROU TESIMA, MILITARY ATTACHE OF THE
JAPANESE LEGATION: KIYOSHI YAMAGATA, ENVOY EXTRA ORDINARY AND MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY OF JAPAN IN
CHILE; NAOYA NAGAMINE, SECRETARY OF THE JAPANESE LEGATION IN SANTIAGO.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 37
GENERAL METHODS
and all working directly undera Lieutenant
General in Tokyo. In addition to the regular
It is evident that in recent years the
branches, there is also a staff of Special
Japanese maintained in Latin America a rather
Service officers attached to the office of the
extensive organization for the accumulation of
Special Envoy to the Nanking Government. There
information to further their war program and
are also numerous junior officers, cipher
for the dissemination of propaganda. Generally,
officers, and "shokutaku" which may be trans-
information of a commercial and political nature
lated as "a person on the non-official staff" or
was sought by the several Consulates situated
"a part-time official." It is stated that the
throughout the Continent under the direction of
principal function of the Special Service Sec-
te Embassies. Military and Naval information
tion is political intrigue and the sponsoring
was sought and obtained through Japanese army
of "fifth column" activity. It was particularly
and navy inspectors' offices. These offices were
active in sponsoring Wang Ching Wei and other
staffed by a relatively large number of Japanese
political leaders of similar stripe in China.
military and naval officers as well as technical
In so far as is knowm, the Special Service is
experts. The military and naval attaches of the
employed only in those territories which the
Embassy and representatives or agents of the
army has occupied or proposes to occupy. It
large Japanese firms in Latin America also
has been reported that experience in Manchuria
assisted in gathering information valuable to
and China has demonstrated that the intention of
Japan's war program.
the Japanese Army to penetrate any particular
It was learned prior to the war that Japan
area is disclosed by the appearance of Special
de termined to strengthen its in telligence net-
Service representatives usually in the capacity
work in the Western Hemisphere because of the
of officials of the South Manchurian Railway
critical situation then existing between the
Company or other quasi-commercial concerns. The
United States and that country. All Japanese
Special Service Section prepares the way for the
diplomatic and consular representatives were
army first by the collection of intelligence and
instructed to reorganize and augment their
then by the instigation of revolt against the
in telligence facilities. The Consulates were
recognized authorities. Its usual tactics con-
directed to concentrate their efforts toward
sist of disseminating subversive propaganda,
securing naval and military information with
suborning government officials and planting
emphasis on obtaining current data pertaining to
agents under cover. Thus by the time military
the movement and disposition of the Uni ted States
operations have begun, the stage has been set
fleet.
for an army-sponsored puppet regime at an
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE
opportune moment.
A secondary, but by no means unimportant
The Japanese intelligence servi ce appears to
function of the Special Service is the collec-
operate independently of the agencies concerned
tion of intelligence essential to the success
with counterespionage or in ternal security
of its political and subversive activities. The
problems within Japan. There was obtained from
required intelligence is chiefly of a political
a foreign source in November, 1941, a document
nature including information relating to the
which outlined the Japanese intelligence service
political sympathies, loyalties and movements of
and pointed out that as the Japanese army is all
foreign government officials, the translation of
powerful in Japan, it controls both private
official documunts and telegrams of the other
persons and commercial firms and thus has them
country secured either by theft or other means
at its disposal for use in the creation and
and the determination of public opinion by
cperation of 1ts in telligence system. This,
analyzing the publications of the country to be
of course, supports the conclusion that Japanese
occupied. Other intelligence activities include
business firms are used as cover for their
distribution of propaganda to the foreign press
espionage agents.
and from time to time reporting foreign move-
According to the document mentioned, the
ments and military plans.
Japanese military intelligence service may be
The China Affairs Board, as its name indi-
divided into three sections: (1) the Direc-
cates, is primarily concerned with the winning
torate of Military Intelligence; (2) the Mili-
over of Chinese, but it is also an important
tary Special Service Section, and (3) the China
branch cf Military Intelligence. It is con-
Affairs Board. It is believed that all military
trolled principally by the army although naval
attaohes, who may be considered the official
officers, Foreign Office personnel and civilian
spies of the army and who also employ their own
commercial officials also are affiliated with
agents, are under the Directorate of the Mili-
1t.
tary Intelligence.
It should not be assumed that the army does
The Military Special Service Section, some-
not employ other methods of obtaining intelli-
times termed the "Special Service Mission" or
gence than through its mili tary attaches, the
"Rikugun Tokumu Kikan," is directed from the
Special Service Section and the China Affairs
Ministry of war in Tokyo and has representa-
Board. There is, in addition, a network of
tives stationed in the principal cities through-
commercial enterprises throughout the world all
out the occupied territories of Manchuria,
of which are potential cover for agents of all
Mongolia, China, and now probably Indo-China and
Military Intelligence. For example, it is said
conquered Far Eastern territory. It appears
that the representative of the Mitsui Bussan
that there are seven important centers of this
Kaisha at Saigon, Indo-China, was working for
Service, each with a Major General in command
the Special Service Mission. The Japanese
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 38
Consular Servi∞ also acts as liaison between
Service Section and the China Affairs Board
the army and navy and their special agents
there are to be found Special Naval Agents,
throughout the world, transmitting instructions
often former naval officers or specially trained
and funds and undertaking to forward intelli-
agents for naval work including, on occasion,
gence gathered to Tokyo.
foreigners. These persons are sometimes at-
A foreign government agency informed that
tached to Consulates as "Chancellors" or "spe-
there existed in Japan a division of the Foreign
cial officials." As with the army, most Japa-
Ministry, the Department of Emigration, under
nese commercial concerns also provide cover for
the supervision of the Japanese War Ministry,
Japanese Naval Intelligence activities.
charged with the selection of emigrants who
desired to settle in foreign countries, partic-
COMMERCIAL ESPIONAGE
ularly the Americas. The Department of Emigra-
The Special Service Section and the other
tion was said to select from the applicants for
units sponsor the planting of agents for the
passports to leave Japan, those persons whose
accumulation of commercial intelligence under
patriotism, cul ture, inteiligence and obedience
the direction of the Minister of Overseas
would make them the best to serve Japan in the
Affairs and the Minister of Commerce and Indus-
countries to which they traveled.
try through the Foreign Ministry. In these
This agency is said to have shown great
instances, an agent trained in Japan 1s sent out
preference to persons recommended to them by
to serve with a Japanese commercial firm in the
the Special Service Section of the Military
area of interest. These agents usually are
Intelligence Service, sending them abroad,
skilled in the language of the country to which
particularly to American nations. These people
they are sent. Should no commercial vacancy
were reported to have been Army and Navy offi-
exist in the locality where it is desired to
cers emigrated as agricul tural laborers, clerks
and the like to serve as intelligence agents.
place an agent, he is employed by the local Con-
It was reported that they received their regular
sul or government representative as a personal
military pay and were directly responsible to
servant or clerk. The identities of the agents
the Military Intelligence Service, although
concerned with intelligence, of course, are not
required to dress and live as the circumstances
disclosed even to the local managers or employ-
requi red.
ees of the firm.
Their duties included the organization of
In Latin America these agents were mainly
their compatriots and the supervision of their
active in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Chile and
conduct and attitudes as well as the collection
Peru where the larger Japanese colonies are
of data on military and naval matters and econo-
located.
mic intelligence.
The Japanese Consuls themselves are under
direct instructions of the Foreign Office to
NAVAL INTELLIGENCE
carry out in telligence activities. They are,
in general, concerned with the distribution of
The Japanese Naval In telligence, like the
propaganda, the organization of political or
Military Intelligence Service of that country,
ethnocentric groups and so-called "cul tural
may be divided into a Directorate of Naval
enterprises." They also encourage the dispatch
Intelligence, a Naval Special Service Section
of students to Japan and aid in their selection,
and a China Affairs Board. It is not as compre-
subsidize pro-Japanese newspapers and collect
hensive, important or powerful as its military
maps, economic data and the like.
counterpart, and usually confines itself to the
To stimulate its trade and economic welfare,
accumulation of naval intelligence rather than
Japan has promoted and encouraged a number of
entering the political and economic spheres
development boards and trade associations.
of espionage and propaganda.
These are, to some extent, subsidized by the
The naval attaches and inspectors, who may
government through its Ministries of Overseas
be termed the official spies of the Admiralty,
Affairs and Commerce and Industry. Because of
are under the Director of Naval Intelligence,
these subsidies, they are available to the
the chief of the third section of the naval
Japanese government for such purposes as it may
staff. These attaches and inspectors follow
see fit. All Japanese commercial concerns with-
the practices of the military attaches and
out the Empire of Japan are potential cover for
employ their own agents and informants.
spies if not actively engaged in espionage them-
The officers of the Naval Special Service
selves. In this regard consideration must be
Section are under the direction of the Admi-
given to the activities in the espionage field
ralty and are stationed in all major ports of
of such organizations as the Domei News Agency,
China and other occupied territories. Their
The Nippon Trade Agency, the Japan Tourist
main function, like that of the section, is the
Bureau, the South Seas Development Association,
collection of naval intelligence.
the South Manchurian Railway Company, the Mitsui
Al though the China Affairs Board is pri-
Bussan Kaisha, the Mi tsubishi Shoj1 Kaisha,
marily controlled by the Army, Naval Officers
such Japanese banks as the Yokohama Specie Bank
are always to be found among its members as
and the Sumitomo Bank, and the Steamship 1ines
there are certain naval responsibilities, as the
Nippon Yusen Kaisha (Japan Mail Steamship
development of island resources, harbors and
Company) and Osaka Shosen Kaisha (Osaka Mer-
communications, with which the Board is con-
cantile Steamship Company), as well as smaller
cerned.
and less widely known business houses, par-
In addition to the members of the Special
ticularly importing and exporting companies
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 39
EXTERIOR VIEW OF THE OFFICES OF THE PACIFIC TRADING COMPANY OF JAPAN. THIS COMPANY ATTEMPTED TO
PURCHASE OIL FIELDS IN NORTHERN PERU IN I936 AND I937 WITHOUT SUCCESS. ITS AGENCIES WERE LATER USED
AS COVERS FOR JAPANESE SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY. IT WAS REPRESENTED IN PERU AND CHILE BY AGENCIES KNOWN
AS "TAIBO".
which were, of necessity, in frequent contact
Japanese contemplating a visit to Japan to seek,
with their headquarters in Japan or Japanese
and prepare in advance, data which they assumed
affiliates.
would be of interest and enable them to converse
intelligently with Japanese officials. The
AMATEUR INTELLIGENCE
information carried over by these persons ap-
A considerable mass of information of doubt-
pears to have been of a very general nature and
secured without instruction from the Japanese
ful value has unquestionably been given Japan by
her nationals who formerly resided in Latin
government.
America. Frequent reports and numerous allega-
DIPLOMATIC INTELLIGENCE
tions have been made that Japanese from the
Western Hemisphere visiting in Japan were
The agents of the Foreign Ministry through
questioned at length concerning conditions in
the nature of their occupation are well suited
this country, particularly if their residence
for espionage. The personnel may legally enter
was in the vicinity of areas vital to national
the cointry of their objectives and upon their
defense. It is known that the more prominent
arrival are clothed with diplomatic immunity.
and patriotic of these visitors were received
They have employment, a headquarters and, most
by highly placed Japanese government officials,
important, safe channels of communication with
including Army and Navy officers.
their home country, the diplomatic pouch,
The knowledge that they would be interviewed
couriers and code. thus overcoming the most
upon reaching Japan coupled with an inherent
difficult obstacle in the path of an espionage
inguisitiveness, led the more nationalistic
agent.
☆
JAFANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 40
Their pursuit of what may justifiably be
in a previous chapter. It is sufficient to
called legitimate Consular duties, that is, the
point out here that they served as an excellent
support and promotion of trade, the protection
vehicle for the dissemination of Japanese propa-
of the interests of their nationals and the
ganda as well as furnishing information. Corre-
reporting of political and economic affairs, is
spondents from different neutral countries such
in itself an intelligence function which may be
as Spain and Portugal were approached for the
readily expanded to include data of a purely
purpose of securing their assistance in further-
military character. Further, competent observ-
ance of the Japanese program. Efforts were made
ers may be stationed in Consulates near military
to use some Latin American repatriates in secur-
or naval establishments under cover as Consular
ing information. Other efforts were made to use
secretaries or cierks without much danger of
diplomatic personnel from Latin America, Spain
exposure. They may also be used to choose the
and Portugal who were in the United States.
best cover for agents in other positions as well
Along this same line they sought to induce
as exercise supervision of the activities of
individual Latin Americans to work for them,
such agents and arrange for the payment of their
particularly after diplomatic relations were
expenses and the transmission of their reports.
discontinued with Latin American countries and
Consuls, being closer to their nations in a
the freedom of movement on the part of the resi-
foreign country than any other of their govern-
dent Japanese was restricted. Close attention
ment's officials, can judge which of them may
was given to travelers going to and from the
be utilized in the national interest and prepare
Uni ted Nations and to crew members on boats and
for the inclusion of Japanese residents in their
airplanes. Consideration was also given by the
espionage system. The Japanese Foreign Ministry
Japanese to infiltrating the personnel of the
has not been reluctant to use their diplomatic
Pan-American Airways so that important informa-
establishment for intelligence purposes, in-
tion concerning the United States could be
cluding the accumulation of military as well as
secured from them. Likewise plans were devised
economic data.
for the utilization of Portuguese and Spanish
Foreign sources have indicated that the
vessels and their crews who visited various
Japanese Consulates in the South Seas not only
ports in the Western Hemisphere.
supervised a system of espionage, but worked
out plans for the seizure of civil authority
SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
after a successful attack upon the 1slands of
the East Indies by large-scale efforts to under-
As previously indicated "totality" is a
mine the authority of the previously-existing
fundamental concept underlying the Japanese
government.
system of espionage. Consequently their wants
in Latin America were many and varied. Japanese
The Japanese diplomatic and consular estab-
intelligence agents were instructed to secure
lishments and their representatives constituted
the framework and the motivating power behind
detailed data on such matters as:
Japanese espionage and propaganda in Latin
The extent and nature of Latin Ameri can-Uni ted
America. This fact was well illustrated by the
States cooperation,
use of these organizations to forward or other-
Facts on armament production,
wise transmit to Japan reports of Japanese
Distribution of Naval and Commercial shipping,
intelligence agents by "safe hand" or courier
Number of naval and merchant marine ships
and other diplomatic channels; the entertainment
afloat and under construction,
of the personnel of not only Japanese naval
Raw materials produced,
vessels but commercial ships operated by such
Food consumption and supply,
lines as the Nippon Yusen Kaisha, who freguently
Labor conditions,
reported at the Consulates situated in their
Output in the manufacturing sphere,
ports of call, carrying therefrom documents or
Naval and military secrets,
material not entrusted to the mails.
Possibilities for sabotage,
Information was received to the effect that
Possibilities for corrupting government offi-
on October 1, 1940 the Foreign Minister of Japan
cials so as to use them advantageously.
instructed all diplomatic and consular officials
in North and Central America to take steps to
JAPANESE - GERMAN COLLABORATION
insure that Domei, the Japanese' government
For some years the Japanese and the Germans
con trolled news agency, made prompt and accurate
have been in contact with each other relative to
reports of the reaction in the Uni ted States
resulting from Japan's conclusion of a military
the subject of espionage. There are some indi-
cations that the German system of in telligence
alliance with German and Italy. In view of its
was influenced by Japanese concepts. It is only
dependency on the diplomatic service the Japa-
natural, therefore, in view of this background
nese espionage system was dealt a crippling blow
and their status as Allfes that there should be
when Latin American nations severed relations
with Japan.
considerable collabo ration between them when it
was to their mutual advantage. However, it
SPECIFIC TECHNIQUES
appears that neither has trusted the other to
any great extent and their intelligence rela-
In securing espionage information Japan made
tions with each other have been marked by cau-
every possible use of the many Japanese organiza-
tion.
tions in Latin America. The importance of these
Following the eruption of World War Number
organizations in Japanese life has been treated
II, the Japanese in England were busily engaged
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 41
in securing espionage information for Germany.
located posts. This network was capable of
They did the same elsewhere, partioularly at
supplying the necessary security and the utmost
Port Said, Singapore and Alexandria. In Latin
possible speed. It efficiently covered the.
America the collaboration between the Japanese
entire Eastern Hemisphere to the extent that
and the Germans was more noticeable in Argentina
Japan was able to maintain diplomatic relations
than in other countries. However, it is inter-
with Axis nations as long as they were able
esting to note that as Germany began to weaken
to reciprocate. They had also to some degree.
the propaganda line among the Japanese in Argen-
extended this sphere of their operations to
tina changed and the theory was propounded that
the Western Hemisphere.
Japanese never had any interest in "Nazism-
In Asia, where these posts are nearer to
Fascism." It was pointed out that if Germany
Tokyo, it is possible for consulates as well
should be defeated in Europe it would not affect
as embassies to make direct contact with the
Japanese-Latin American relations.
Foreign Office. Accordingly, radio transmitters
In Chile the German Military Attache while
are located in consulates and legations, which
operating furnished information on ship movement
are able to contact the Foreign Office in Tokyo
to the Japanese. There are other similar in-
without using the embassies covering the area
stances in different sections of the continent.
in which they are located as in termediary sta-
Though collaboration with the Germans was
tions. Similarly these consulates and embassies
carried on, the Japanese seemed to be careful
are able to contact each other without going
not to tie up the destiny of Japan with the rise
through the Foreign Office. Those consulates
or fall of Germany. On the contrary, they pur-
which do not have transmitting or receiving
sued a more independent line reflecting that
sets may nave their messages relayed through
Japan had a unique destiny. The Germans in
the nearest station. It is known that these
rather a blunt, arrogant manner, assumed that
radio stations were extended to some of the
Japan was a satellite of Germany and the Japa-
insular possessions acquired by Japan during
nese subject to their orders in Iatin America.
her present war. The tremendous scope of this
However, the more subtle orientals were inclined
world-wide communications network has been
to believe that it was they who were "using" Ger-
one of Japan's major developments in the field
many and not conversely. In the homeland itself
of espionage.
this Japanese conviction was bolstered by the
Another system of communication utilized
war slogans, "Asia for Asiatics", the "Oriental
by the Japanese in telligence service is that
Crusade," and "Defeat the White Devil."
of the diplomatic pouch. The diplomatic pouch
is most frequently transported by couriers
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNICATIONS
traveling under diplomatic immunity. Since
the Japanese have never shown either any great
(m clarifying the subject of espionage to
respect for diplomatic ethics or regard for
their agents, stating the objectives and estab-
international diplomatic law, it may be pre-
lishing methods and techniques, the Japanese had
sumed that the courier system has been a con-
one other important aspect of their espionage
venient method of communication.
system to develop namely, communications. They
Unlike the Germans, the Japanese have not
fully realized that their system would re use-
become proficient in the use of secret inks,
less unless the information obtained could be
nor have they extensively used mail drops as a
rapidly and accurately relayed to Japan. As a
means of communication. This may possibly be
result they evolved a most effective system of
explained by the superiority of their radio
communications. It is probably the most effi-
commimication system. They have, however, been
cient unit of their entire system.
known to employ both secret inks and mail drops
Successful communications require both
to a limited extent. Such inks as they have
secrecy and speed. The communications employed
been known to use were of an elementary type.
by the Japanese intelligence, just like all
They used milk, fruit and vegetable juices,
other aspects of their intelligence system, are
aspirin and other such ingredients for secret
centered in the Lmbassies, Legations, and Consu-
inks, which are easily detected by the use of
lates of the diplomatic service. Contact between
chemical reagents. Generally speaking, Japa-
these establishments and the foreign office in
nese ngents have not shown much aptitude in
Tok'o was made by a vast network of radio trans-
this art, and they are apparently insufficiently
mitters and receivers placed in strategically
trained.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.85)
REPUBLIC OF MEXICO
JAPANESE POPULATION
EACH SYMBOL REPRESENTS 10 PERSONS
STANC
CACHE
COAMILA
欢欢光欢欢
NON MATURALIZED
MATURAD
MDRELOA
RATARIT
NUEVO LEOR
DAGACA
PULBLA
QUERCTARO
QUeNTARA ROO
BAR LUNG POTOR
SIRALDA
TABABCO
TAA
T
TUCATAN
LACATECAB
TOTAL
NOR NATUBALEED
NON NATUA
NATURAUTD
TUR
NON RATURALED
NATURALZED
 NATURAn
Key
naTUa
NATURALIZED JAPANESE
NON NATURAED
NATURAED
JAPANESE POPULATION
NON MATURALITED
0
BATURAED
Total Non-Naturalized
3,935
0
TOTAL NUMBER OF JAPANESE INCLUDING PERSONS OF
Total Naturalized
201
JAPANESE EXTRACTION IN MEXICO IS 5,146
Grand Total
4,136

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
Chapter 5
MEXICO
SOCIAL PENETRATION
BACKGROUND
Many students of anthropology have prepee
Population
the theory that the native Mexicen, who is pr
The latest and most reliable statistics
marily an Indian, is much closer to the Jepmese
available concerning the Japanese popuation of
in physical characteristics than the Mesean
Mexico are dated in December, 19i1, when it wa
Indian is to tia white American. Japanese have
estimated that there were 5, 146 Japanese indi-
used tiis line of "close blood affinity" in
viduals in Mexico. Inis estimate is composed
their attempts to win the friendship of the
of the following:
native Mexicans. They point out now much more
Alians
3,931
imilar Uiey are in physical characteristics and
Naturalized Mexican citizens
201
in mental processes to Mexicans than Mexioans
Mexican citizen, by birun
1,011
are to Americans. It appears that the everage
Tetal 5,116
native Mexican living in tne rural areas of
Mexico feels a closer bond between himself and
while no statistics are avallable for the
a person of Japanese blood than between himself
period following 19il, 1t is estimated what at
and a pirson ot American blood. It is further
the present time there are in all ot Mexico
pointed out that uis situation may be aided by
upproximately 5, 5 individual of Japallese
the tradi tional "anti-gringo" sentiments of the
blood. Some lapanere lave been repatriated from
native Mexicans living in the rural areas in
Mexioo s1nce 1911.
whtch fen Americans reside permanently.
10111101
Japanese have al so done much to win the
favor of Mexicans by intermarriage. Practically
ne ir t 1pate laoorers arrived in
all single Japanese who came to Mexico married
Mexteo about 1ru7. Tury were poverty-strtcken
Wexican women and have had children by them.
peasants Ir m soutnern Japan. As contract
while the Mexican women whom they have married
workers tlry performed t most laborious tasks,
cannot be considered to be of the highest class
such as mining wnd constructing railmads. Mex-
of Mexicans, the marriages appear to be stable
tean records indtcat, tnat urere were only forty
and their offspring are fully accepted by other
Japanese in Mexi tn 110t, and that by 1910,
native Mexicans.
2.2e7 Jamese wee 1ine in the country.
In Mexico City, Dr. Kiso Tsuru and Lic.
Inis figure rematmed more or less constant dur-
Mario Acyama, a Mexican attormay borm in Mextoco
ing ue following rifteen years. when a Commer-
to Japanese parents, are the only Japanese who
clal 1reaty was 1gned in 1925, Japanese immi-
are known to associate to any axtent with better
gration increased constderably.
ocial clses of tne Mexican elements. In the
smaller cities and in the rural areas the Jap-
Location
ules mix quite freely with local Mexicans.
The lapanese nave claimd tat some of thetr
POLITICAL PENETRATION
people settled on the west coast of Mextco near
Acapulco before Mexico had reached statenood.
It is not kiown tiat any Japanese hold offi-
However, there is no valid nistorical evidence
Ial government posttions anywnere in Mexico.
to support Uits claim. is previously indicated,
A few Japanese who were born and educated in
it is only known that the Japanese commenced to
Mexico are employed in minor positions in Mexi-
arrive in Mexico about 1n97. Most of thest
can government projects, typical of which would
settled in soutiern Mexlco. Tnose who survived
be the construction of irrigation facilities and
the rigorous living conditlons scattered to
road building. These positions are not impor-
different sections of the nation.
tant political appointments and do not give
When tie Japanese began to arrive in Mexico
these individuals opportumities to gain valuable
in larger numbers, following the turn of the
political influence or prestige.
century, uiey settled mainly in the Federal Dis-
It is not believed that the Japanese in
trict (Mexico City), Sonora, Baja California,
Mexico have been able in any manner to sponsor
Coahuila, Chiapas, Sinaloa, Chihuahua and Vera-
or aid any Mexican political candidates in their
cruz, wnile some were al so located in Tamaulipas.
campaigns for of fice. It is true, however, that
San Iuis Potosi and Jalisco. Baja California
throughout Mexico in areas wnere Japanese lived
held most of the Japanese, with the Federal Dis-
and wisned to remain they have contributed large
trict being second.
sums of mor.ey in the form of "mordidas" (graft)
The Japanese population in Mexico is not now
to local political figures in crder to avoid
as well distributed througn the Mexican states
governmental disciplinary action, governmental
as it was prior to December, 1911, because of
control orders, and governmental efforts to
the Mexican program to concentrate as many Jap-
remove them from those places to other areas
anese as possible away from tie coastal areas.
wi thin Mex1co.
★
JAPANESEMCNOGTAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 44
In some states Japanese have been known to
Prior to December 7, 1911, the Japanese Con-
make regular monthly payments to local Gober-
sulate General in Mexico City was located at
nacion officials in order that they would not
Orizaba #36. After the Japanese Legation was
be reported to Gobernacion headquarters in Mex-
closed, the building at Orizaba #36 was retained
ico City with recommendatiors for their removal
by the Japanese and became a diplomatic annex to
from the state. It was reported tnat Rodolfo T.
the Portuguese Legation. Only one member of the
Loaiza, former Governor of the State of Sinaloa,
Japanese Legation staff, Ricardo T. Matusita,
on the west coast, had received monthly payments
remained in Mexico after the general repatria-
of 10,000 pesos from the Japanese in that state
tion. He is listed as a clerk in the Portuguese
in order that he would permit tnem to remain in
Legation, and acts as the intermediary for the
his state. Governor Loaiza was shot in Mazatlan,
Japanese with the Portuguese Minister. Matusita,
Sinaloa, on February 21, 1944. The cause of the
nis two daughters, and their staff of Japanese
killing is unknown and there was no evidence of
servants, reside at Orizaba #36. The Japanese
a Japanese plot to murder him.
refer to this building as their "Legation" and
It is also known that many Japanese regu-
address Matusita as "Ambassador."
larly pay from fifty to one hundred pesos per
Organizations
month to local Gobernacion agents to guarantee
their remaining in the localities in which they
The only Japanese organization which is now
live. It is to be noted that in most instances
known to exist in Mexico is the "Comite Japones
graft payments by Japanese may not have been
de Auxilio Mutuo" (Japanese Committee for Mutual
voluntarily ins tituted by themselves. Because
Assistance) which has its principal offices at
the Mexican Government had developed a program
San Antonio de Abad, Mexico, D. F. It is known
to relocate Japanese from coastal areas to the
in Japanese as "Kyo Ei Kai." This committee is
central part of the country, the Japanese became
operated principally by Guillermo Makita, Pablo
a very logical element for governmental emloyees
Kimura, Dr. Kiso Tsuru and Ricardo T. Matusita.
and officials to "shake down" regularly. This
These individuals use many other Japanese for
was due to their ability to threaten the Japa-
the collection of funds within the Japanese
nese with immediate dislocation from their homes
colony. The committee maintains an important
and businesses unl ess they would make regular
sub-committee at Avenida Colon #764,Interior #6,
Guadalajara, Jalisco. Tne secretary and princi-
pal director of the sub-committee at Guadalajara
is Emesto M. Yanome.
This committee appears to devote itself
entirely to aiding destitute Japanese who in
most instances had been removed from their homes
end occupations to interior portions of Mexico
by order of the Mexican Government. The com-
mittee has attempted to raise funds among Japa-
nese in Mexico and to find places of employment
for the Japanese. Efforts were also made to
obtain frozen funds of Japanese businesses for
distribution by the "Comite Japones de Auxilio
Mutuo" in its program of aiding the Japanese.
It was proposed by Dr. Kiso Tsuru that 1,000.000
pesos of the funds of the Japanese-owned Laguna
A JAPANESE HOME
Oil Company, wnich was formerly controlled by
him, be used to purchase certain agricultural
payments to those who could control their places
properties to be developed on a large scale by
of residence.
Dr. Kiso Tsuru, who will be discussed more
Japanese citizens and their families.
It was furtner proposed tuat an aduitional
fully hereinafter, is considered to be the most
1,000,000 pesos be obtained, half from collec-
weal thy Japanese in Mexico and the most influen-
tions from members of tne Japanese colony, and
tial with important goverment officials. It is
the remainder as a loan from funds belonging to
known that ne uses nis influence with various
the former Japanese Legation in Mexico, then in
government officials to furtner nis own finan-
the hands of the Portuguese officials.
cial interests and to assist generally in the
It was contemplated that the entire enter-
welfare of all Jepanese in Mexico.
prise would eventually be self-supporting; that
Official Japanese Representation
not only would those able to work be aided, but
the aged and infirm would also be taken care of;
Before Pearl Harbor there existed in Mexico
and that this would be accomplished without
City a large well-represented Japanese Legation.
expense to the Mexican Government.
When the Mexican Government declared war on
However, the Mexican Foreign Minister in-
Japan, the Japanese Legation in Mexico City
formed the Portuguese Charge d'Affaires in Mex-
ceased to function. The official members and
ico that it was not possible to comply with the
the staff of the Japanese Legation were later
wishes of the "Comite Japones de Auxilio Mutuo"
repatriated to Japan and the Portuguese Legation
by furnishing the funds of the Laguna Oil Com-
in Mexico City took over tne representation of
pany to the committee. It is believed that at
Japanese nationals in Mexico.
the present time none of the Japanese funds and
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 45
property frozen by the Mexican Government,
"Compania Mexicana de Petroleo Laguna,"
estimated at 4,000,000 pesos, nas been released
"Compania Mexicana de Petroleo Veracruzana, S.
by the Mexican Government to the committee for
A.," "Compania Internacional de Drogas," "Com-
its work.
pania Internacional de Comercio, S.A." and the
By February of 1943, approximately 1,331
"Turo Mining Company." These five companies
Japanese had petitioned the "Comite Japones de
were to a great extent interrelated because of
Auxilio Mutuo" for assistance, and many others
the management and financial investment of Dr.
were said to be in need of help. It was said
Kiso Tsuru. It is believed the "Compania Mexi-
at that time that the committee was assisting
cana de Petroleo Laguna" and the "Compania
approximately 905 Japanese, but that wi thout
Mexicana de Petroleo Veracruzana, S.A." were
additional funds the committee would not be
financed to a large extent by the Japanese Gov-
able to continue for long. of the 905 Japanese
emment, possibly through the Military and Naval
then being assisted by the committee, 241 were
Attaches of the Japanese Legation in Mexico.
reported as working on an agricultural ranch
These two firms were financial failures because
approved and supervised by the Mexican Govern-
of inability to locate producing oil wells and
ment, situated at l'emixco, near Cuernavaca,
also because of internal conflict due to a gen-
Morelos.
eral dislike of Dr. Kiso Tsuru, who was con-
The Temixco ranch is still being operated
sidered to be arrogant, conceited and independ-
and it is reported that approximately 150 Japa-
ent. He was distrusted by his associates be-
nese are working on the land. The ranch is
cause of their impression that he was trying
still under tue supervision of the Mexican De
to accumulate a fortune for nimself rather than
partment of tobernacion and the movement of
trying to use the money obtained from Japan for
Japanese to and from the ranch is controlled
the benefit of the Japanese Government.
through the issuance of Gobernacion permits to
It is said that the funds and property hold-
travel.
ings of Dr. Tsuru's companies are valued at
The Japanese have also attempted tirough the
approximately 1,000,000 pesos, Mexican currency.
committee to set up otner small communal farms
These funds were frozen by the Mexican Govern-
to be operated entirely by Japanese in the
ment after Pearl Harbor and the operations of
interior areas of the count ry. ome such farming
the compantes are controlled by the Mexican Gov-
project is located at the Hacienda de Castro
ernment through an intervention system. It is
Urdiales at Tala, Jalisco, and another is lo-
therefore believed that these companies are no
cated at Rancho San Isidro.
longer of any great economic and commercial
importance in Mexico.
Before Pearl Harbor there existed in Mexico
City a large department store owned and operated
entirely by Japanese interests, known as "El
Nuevo Japon" (Tne New Japan). After Pearl Har-
bor the Mexican Government intervened and the
store has recently been sold at auction to Mexi-
can interests.
At the pre ent time the few Japanese who are
actively engaged in business ventures in Mexico
have hardware stores, drug stores, grocery
stores, gift shops and restaurants. The Japa~
nese doetors and dentists are continuing in prac-
tice. The great majority of Japanese who are
not engaged in businesses or professions are now
employed as farm laborers, servants and garden-
ers. A substantial portion of the Japanese in
JAPANESE FARMERS
Mexico appear to be unemployed and it is be-
lieved they are supported tnrough charitable
COMMERCE
donations f'rom the "Comite Japones de Auxilio
Mutuo" (Japanese Committee for Mutual Assist-
Before December 7, 1911, the Japanese made
ance).
definite efforts to establish themselves in
Mexico along economic lines.
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
The majority were employed as fishermen
Previous to the rupture of diplomatic rela-
along the west coast of Mexico and as agricul-
tions between Japan and Mexico, the Japanese
tural laborers. Most of the important cities in
Mexico, especially on the west coast, had Japa-
Military and Naval Attaches in Mexico City con-
nese doctors and Japanese dentists. Many other
ducted military and naval espfonage for their
Japanese established small hardware stores,
Government. They used selected Japanese, stra-
grocery stores, gift shops, sporting goods
tegically located along the coastal areas of
stores and small restaurants.
Mexico, for the obtaining of information of
Dr. Kiso Tsuru can be considered the most
interest to them. After the Japanese Legation
aggressive of the Japanese in establishing com-
in Mexico City was closed because of the decla-
mercial enterprises. He organized and operated
ration of war, Japanese military and naval espi-
the following companies:
onage activities in Mexico declined to such a
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.97)
REPUBLIC OF MEXICO
Alleged Organization of
JAPANESE ESPIONAGE AND PROPAGANDA
ACTIVITIES IN MEXICO
(PRIOR TO MEXICO'S DECLARATION OF WAR ON MAY 28. 1942)
JAPANESE LEGATION
DR. KISSO TSURU
SOCIEDAD JAPANESE
DOMEI NEWS AGENCY
CAPTAIN KYOHO HAMANAKA
NOGALES - SONORA
ABRAHAM Z PHILLIPS
TURU MINING CO.. S.A.
HERMOSILLO.SONORA
Sigeo Kuno
MANAGER
MAZATLAN- SINALOA
NAVAJOA - SINALOA
PRESENTY AT LIBERTY UNDER BA
I MEXICO CITY
AT F2
50 Reporters
ASSISTAN' MANAGER
Nakamura
MIJASAKA KATO
COMPANIA PETROLERA
DE LAGUNA. S.A.
PIEDRAS NEGRAS - COAHUILA
LEON. GUANAJUATO
HUIXTLA. CHIAPAS
MINATITLAN- VERACRUZ
AMERIÇAN EXPORT CO
CIUDAD VALLES . SAN LUIS POTOSI
DISTRICT LEADERS
COMPANIA PETROLERA
MUZQUIZ. COAHUILA
URES - SONORA
VERACRUZANA.S.A.
AGUA PRIETA-SONORA
ESCUINCLA-CHIAPAS
CLOTES- COAHUILA
TUKID NAGAMATSU
COMPANIA INTERNACIONAL
PALAU. COAHUILA
CHIHUAHUA- JUAREZ
DE DROGAS. S. A.
JESUS CARRANZA - VERACRUZ
COLONIA DUBLAN- CHIHUAHUA
Dr. Tsunesaburo Hasegawa
SONORA-HERMOSILLO
COATZCOALCOS - VERACRUZ
ORIZABA - VERACRUZ
ARESTED MARCH 15 1947
Dr. L. M. Iwamoto
COMPANIA INTERNACIONAL
LOS MOCHIS- S'NALOA
MANZANILLO-COLIMA
S.
NAGABUCHI
COLIMA-MANZANILLO
DE COMERCIO. S.A.
CIUDAD OBREGON - SONORA
TAPACHULA - CHIAPAS
Ermesio Yanome
Hechiro Naitoh
JALISCO-GUADALAJARA
COMPANIA NIPPON
SAN LUIS POTOSI- SAN LUIS POTOSI
TAMPICO - TAMAULIPAS
VERACRUZ - VERACRUZ
EVACUATED TO INTERIOR
Jesus Minakata
SUISAN KAISHA
MONTERREY - NUEVO LEON
CIUDAD JUAREZ - CHIHUAHUA
NUEVO LEON-MONTERREY
PACHUCA-HIDALGO
CHIHUAHUA-CHIHUAHUA
Jose Kutugata
MITSUBISHI COMPANY
GUADALAJARA . JALISCO
TAMAULIPAS - TAMPICO
CULIACAN - SINALOA
SAN LUIS POTOSI
Dr. Ichinosuke Konishi
MITSUI COMPANY
INTERNED APL 14. 1942
SAN LUIS POTOSI
Tokichi Umara Baba

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 47
degree that any which may have taken place since
Shinichi Matsuo, Viscount Rodolfo Toshimitsu
that time could not be considered a serious
Maeda and Ricardo T. Matusita. These maps
threat to the United Nations.
reflect possible plans for the invasion of
Mexico and the United States. They show sound-
Espionage
ing information along the west coast of Mexico
A small group of Japanese who assisted the
and contain number and letter designations which
Japanese Military and Naval Attaches is thought
have been identified from other material as
to haye been headed by Viscount Rodolfo Toshi-
being symbols for Japanese-populated areas.
mitsu Maeda, who is said to have acted occa-
Any possible espionage activities on the
sionally as an interpreter for the Japanese
part of these Japanese were greatly hampered by
Legation, al though not officially attached to
the absence of communications with Japan. All
it. Viscount Maeda died in May, 1913. In the
efforts to ascertain communication methods be
summer of 1943 there was found among his pos-
tween Mexico and Japan, either by radio or mail,
sessions a list of names and numbers on offi-
have been negative. The only possible channel
cial stationery of the Japanese Army headquar-
of communication which is now known in Mexico
ters designed for the recording of incoming
is the use of the Portuguese pouch by Ricardo T.
secret messages. There was also among his docu-
Matusita.
ments an undated communication written in Span-
The group was also nandicapped by lack of
ish which is believed to be a copy of an espi-
f'unds. It is known that Viscount Maeda was
onage report prepared by Maeda.
practically destitute at the time he died, and
This report stated uiat the American public
was heavily in debt. The individuals connected
is greatly confused and entertains the errone
with this group had very little if any money
ous no tion that Japan's naval losses have been
of their own. (nly Federico Ashida was consid-
very great; that the American Navy and \rmy
ered to be wealthy, and the Japanese accused him
have disagreed over tactics, the Navy prefer-
of being more interested in his own private com-
ring a defensive war and the Army an offensive
mercial ventures than in aiding Japan. Dr. Kiso
war. The report went on to say that the United
Tsuru, who is the most weal thy Japanese in Mex-
States nas promised more help to its Allies than
ico, has not been known to associate with this
it can deliver and as a result it is spreading
group of Japanese except in connection with the
false propaganda to cover up its failures. In-
collection and distribution of funds to poor
formation was also given on troop movements and
Japanese tirough the "Comite Japones de Auxilio
an estimate of pilot losses.
Mutuo."
Investigation conducted during 1943 indi-
cated that the members of the group were ex-
tremely desirous of rendering assistance to
Japanese Propaganda
Japan in Mexico. They apparently wished to
Japanese nationals carried on subtle and
operate as an espionage unit. These individuals
effective propaganda work among uneducated,
constantly spoke of tieir desire to place in
illiterate Mexican natives and Indians in the
operation a radio transmitter which allegedly
smaller towns and rural areas of western and
had belonged to the Japanese Military Attache
southern Mexico.
and was given to Viscount Maeda after the Japa-
Many of the Japanese nave in their homes
nese Legation was closed. Efforts in January,
short-wave radio receivers which are capable
1911, to locate the alleged radio transmitter
of receiving broadcasts from Japan. The Mexi-
resulted negatively.
cans were invited to the homes of the Japanese
After Maeda died the group of Japanese
to listen to Spanish-language news and propa-
became disunited over the selection of a leader.
ganda broadcasts irom Japan. To many Mexicans,
It was learned that Federico Ashida, Mario
the opportunity of listening to a radio is a
Aoyama Kosaka, SaIvador Shinichi Matsuo, and
rare and delightful experience. Furthermore,
Pablo kimura all had hoped to become the head
the Mexicans who lis tened to the broadcasts were
of the group. They began to criticize and dis-
pleased by the courtesy of the Japanese who
trust each other, and the possible effectiveness
invited them to their homes, and accepted the
of the group definitely degenerated because of
Japanese short-wave radio broadcasts as truth-
its internal dissension and lack of proper
ful inasmuch as most of them cannot read at all,
leadership. An attempt to reorganize the group
or do not read newspapers.
was made during November of 1913.
In the smaller towns and rural areas the
In February, 1944, certain papers and docu-
Japinese carried on effective verbal propaganda
ments were obtained from the possessions of
concerning Japanese victories and Allied losses
Ricardo T. Matusita, Japanese clerk in the Por-
in the Pacific, in China and in India.
tuguese Legation, giving evidence of subversive
The following is an example of the type of
intentions witn a list of names of those who
propaganda verbally disseminated by the Japa-
were apparently willing to assist.
nese: Official announcement of General Doo-
little's raid on Japan was made on various radio
Various hand-drawn maps of Mexico and of the
programs on the night of April 21, 1943, and in
states on the west coast of Mexico containing
newspapers on tne next morning. Immediately
different Japanese cnaracters, symbols and
af'ter news of the raid became public the Japa-
arrows were found among the possessions of
nese started a story in Mexico City that the
Mario Aoyama Kosaka, Alejandro Saito, Salvador
Uni ted States airmen who bombed Japan had each
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 48
been given $10,000 for undertaking the assign-
la Piedad #134, Mexico, D. F. Ynockucni has
ment, and that the Japanese Government therefore
frequently been a visitor to the homes of Joa-
decided to execute the captured airmen because
chim Ruge, Elgar Hilgert, Baron Otto Guenther
they accepted their bombing assignment not on a
Von Tuerckheim and Richard Eversbusch, Jr., who
voluntary basis but because of a pecuniary inter
are suspected of subversive activities.
est.
Tekeichi Kido, who is also known as Heidiki
Prior to the outbreak of war the Japanese
Kido, was bom at Kumomoto, Japan, on April 28,
distributed a book entitled "El Bushido (El Alma
1901. Kido entered the Republic of Mexico on
del Japon) " (The Soul of Japan) written by Inazo
March 14, 1923, through the port of Manzanillo,
Nitobe, Professor at tne Imperial University of
Colima. He was granted the status of "uncondi-
Tokyo and member of the Imperi al Academy of
tional immigrant" in Mexico on May 7, 1941.
Japan. Tnis book was translated Into Spanish by
Previous to January 7, 1941, Kido 1s said to
General Millan-Astray and Luis Alvarez de Es-
have been associated wi th the Japanese Commer-
perjo. It was printed in the shops of Graficas
cial Office for the stimulation of trade with
Ioarra, Calle de 1a Bola #9, Madrid, Spain. The
Mexico. He was also said to have been seen in
book was published on June 19, 1941, and con-
the company of the late Viscount Rodolfo Toshi-
tains a notation that it is not to be sold and
mitsu Maeda. Kido is known to have driven to
that it should be distributed among young stu-
the nome of Joachim Ruge, on July 22, 1943, and
dents. In Marcn, 1943, it was ascertained tnat
to nave conversed wi th Ruge concerning a trip to
there still were large boxes of these books in
Puebla the next day. It is also known that kido
tne Japanese Annex to the Portuguese Legation
has associated with the German, Gustav Walter
at Orizaba #36, Mexico, D. F., and that these
Ohm.
books were being quietly distributed by Ricardo
T. Matusita.
Fernando Osawa was born at Tokyo, Japan, on
Dr. Jose S. Okamura, who resides in Culiacan,
April 3, 1894, of Japanese parents. He has
Sinaloa, was considered to be the outstanding
resided in Mexico, D. F. for the past twenty-
Japanese propagandist in Mexico. Dr. Okamura is
eight years and 1s married to a Mexican. He is
the author of the book "Japan - I ts Historic
a Mexican citizen by naturalization. Usawa is
Mission in Eastern Asia," putlisned on January 1,
known to nave visited tne nome of Joacnim Ruge.
1940. The book was written to gain the sympatny
of Mexicans for the Japanese program in the Pa-
Smuggling
cific and in China. The following are represen-
Information was occasionally received that
tative quotations from tnis book:
Japanese submarines either had called or were
"... For these reasons, fi rst: al though the
expected to call at some unidentified portion
United States wishes to exert influence over
of the west coast of Mexico for the purpose of
Japan by partially warlike action, it is too
picking up strategic materials. No actual
far to go to attack. Moreover, any carelessness
smuggling activities on the part of Japanese
or negligence may cause them to lose their pos-
froir Mexico, ei ther directly to Japan by boat
sessions in the westem Pacific, including the
or submarine or from Mexico tnrough some other
Hawaiian Isl ands..." (Page 168)
countries of Latin America to Japan, have been
"...That whicn nas to be will be: and any nation
ascertained to date.
that obstructs performance on a holy work, a
In Uctober, 1941, a plot was uncovered rela-
work undertaken by Japan for the establishment
tive to an attempt to ship mercury from Man-
of enduring peace in the Orient, will find the
zanillo, Mexico, to Japan on the Japanese ship
sword of the Saviour unsheathed, no matter wnat
nation it is..." (Page 70)
"Azuma Maru." Before the snip sailed, American
"... The Japanese Navy is ready to conquer the
autuorities protested to the local administra-
United States Navy; but the forces of the United
tors of Mexican customs. Approximately thirty
States are not ready to challenge the Japanese."
druns, manifested as containing bronze, were
"...Tnings in this world never remain the same.
opened and found to contain flasks of mercury.
Whoever does not believe this should be killed
Abranam Z. Phillips of Mexico City was indicted
or destroyed. Tue unjust clauses of the Treaty
as being the instigator of the plot, and Antonio
of Versailles, wnich placed the yoke upon the
Llorens Favilla, a Mexican customs broker for-
Germans, were thrown off by tne forces of the
merly operating in Manzanillo, also was indicted
German people..." (Page 70)
The litigation was ratner long drawn out, and on
May 22, 1943, the District Court of Colima,
Japanese-Nazi Collaboration
Mexico, declared Ilorens and Pnillips not guilty
Since October, 1911, Abranam Z. Phillips and
Much of the Japanese-Nazi activity seemed
Llorens nave received so muen unfavorable pub-
to revolve about the home of Joacnim Ruge, a
licity because of tneir implication in tnis plot
known German agent.
tnat they have been closely watched and their
Roberto Kenisni Ynocku ch1 1s a Jap anese
activities since tnat time nave not inudcated
national who has resided in Mexico for forty
that tney are engaged in any smuggling activi-
years. He was borm at Hiroshima, Japan, on
ties.
March 8, 1886. He now resides at Calle Espe-
It is pointed out tnat Mexico is one of the
ranza #65-B, Colonia Navarte, Mexico, D. F., and
largest mercury-producing countries in the world.
is employed as a vulcanizer by "Industrial Rama
From time to tire information was received that
Hule," whose offices are located at Calzada de
certain individuals had in their possession
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 49
flasks of mercury and immediately it was sus-
Aoyama maintained a home in Guadalajara,
pected that an attempt might eventually be male
Jalisco. while he resided there, it was learned
to smuggle the mercury to Japan. These suspi-
that he had several hand-drawn maps of states on
cions nave not been found to have basis in f'act.
the west coast of Mexico. Copies of these maps
were obtained and it was noted that they had
Prominent Japanese
daily sounding information regarding the coastal
In addition to the list of names of Japanese
areas. Number symbols on these maps opposite
in the possession of Ricardo T. Matusita and the
various cities are believed to indicate the pres
list found in the belongings of Viscount Rodolfo
ence in those cities of loyal Japanese.
Toshimitsu Maeda after nis death in 1943, sev-
Federico Ashida
eral prominent Japanese were listed in a note-
book belonging to Alejanuiro S. Saito.
The name of Federico Ashida is included in
botn the Maeda list and the Matusita list. On
Ernesto Akachi
the Maeda list, Ashida is designated as No. 104
The name of Ernesto Akacni, wiui the symbol
and on the Matusita list as "3-A."
"J-11," was found in the Saito notebook. His
Three Japanese phonetic codes which formerly
residence was noted as Los Mochis, Sinaloa.
were among tie possessions of Viscount Maeda
On a map of uie State of sinaloa, also found in
were obtained from the belongings of Federico
the possession of Saito, the symbol "J-11" ap-
Asnida af'ter Maeda died. Later these same codes
peared beside Los Mocnis.
were found in Lie possession of Ricardo T. Matu-
Akachi is married to a Mexican woman. He is
sita.
said to nave been relocated in Mexico, D. F.,
Federico Asnida formerly lived in Manzanillo.
and to have returned to Sinaloa on June 17, 1913.
He moved from tnere to Guadalajara, Jalisco,
He was one of the leaders of the Japanese
colony in los Mocnis, where he made nimself
where he establisned nimself firmly in several
available for espionuge purpcses. \kachi is
business ventures. He owns a bowling parlor,
regarded as one of the most dangerous Japanese
across from the Hotel del Parque known as the
"Monte Carlo," and a candy factory, also known
in that area.
as "Monte Carlo." at Juarez 872, Guadalajara.
Mario Aoyama Kosaka
He attempted to start a gum factory in Guadala-
Phe name Mario Aoyama K. appeared on the
jara, but it failed because of nis inability to
Maeda list of Japanese, on wnien it was given
obtain supplies.
the number 105. The name Mario Aoyama also
Ashida owns a large ranch at Zihautl an on
appeared on tie Matusita list. in tiat list he
the Pacific Coast which nas approximately 6,500
was given the symbol "2-A."
cocoanut, mango and banana trees. He married a
Mario Aoyama Kosaka is a Mexican citizen,
Mexican woman in Zinautlen in 1921 and has four
naving been born in Mexico to Japanese parents.
cnildren by tnat marriage. Ashida is one of the
He was educated in Japan and is a graduate of
weal taiest Japanese in tuadalajara and nas fre
the University of Mexico Law Senool. He resides
quently veen the source of tunds used for the
at T1acotalpan #128-5.
payment of "mordidas" to government officials,
Aoyama is now practicing law in Mexico City,
as well as for payments to destitute Japanese in
witn off'ices at Madero #1o, and receives mail
tnat area. He is criticized by many Japanese as
at Apartado Postal #22s0, Mexico, D. F. His
being so interested in liis own commercial ven-
post office box has in tie past been suspected
tures trat he does not devote enough of nis time
to be a Japanese drop box in Mexico City.
to aiding Japan. Tney also criticize nim for
Aoyama nas been an excellent "front" man
using Japanese money to build up nis personal
for many Japanese in Mexico due to the fact ne
fortune ratner tian using that money for the
speaks Spanish as nis native tongte. Further,
benefit of Jopan e tae iapanese.
he is not bothered by Mexican Government offi-
cials due to his birtn in Mexico, nis position
Ichira Hashimoto Kaminaga,
as a lawyer, and the fact tnat he looks very
Alias Schiro Hashimoto
much like a Mexican. Aoyama is very pro-Japa-
nese and nas tried to assume a leading part
ilasi imoto is a Japanese born March 22, 1911,
among the most important Japanese in Mexico.
in Japan. In May, t930, he was registered as
He is often criticized, nowever, by fatatical
living at Tijuana, Baja California. He also
Japanese born in Jap an on tie grounds that
lived at Ensenada, Baja California, where he
puysically Aoyama may be Japanese but in mind
worked as a fisherman and a farm worker. Pre-
ne is only a Mexican. Aoy ama is very closely
vious to that t ime he resided for four years in
associated witn Ricardo l. Matusita, Pablo
San Diego, Cali tornia, and clains to nave Japa-
Kimura, Uscar K. Tosha and otner Japanese
nese relatives interned in Arizona. He was
throughout Mexico.
removed from Baja California after the declara-
Aoyama played a leading part in uie Japanese
tion of war in May, 1312. His audress was regis-
group after Maeda died. It was ne wno most
tered as Cal zada San Antonio Abad #35-2, Mexico
frequently made reference to a radio transmitter
City.
said to be in the possesion of Maeda. He ex-
Haslim to travels qui te freely through Mex-
pressed grent concern over the inability of the
ico wi tn and wi thout government permission to
group to place the radio transmitter in opera-
travel. It is believed that he may act as a
tion.
messenger or courior for various important
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 50
Japanese inasmuan as lie is known to make f're-
Gulllermo S. Makita
quent trips between Masatlan, Culiaoan and
The nume of Juillurmo H. Mukita, Urizaba
Mexioo City. Hashimoto llas been trying to ob-
tain permission to reside in the northerm part
#nn, is oontained on tio list of Japanese fbund
of the State of Honore, and Japanese have stateu
in the possession of licardo T. Matusita. Un
that list Maidta is given tie desiunation "4-A."
that it was important for him to do mo regart-
less of the ∞st. Hashimoto is frequently seen
Makita is a seuretary of the "Comite Japones du
Auxilio Mutio" in Mexioo City.
in the company of other leading Japanese in
Makita is extremely active in the Japanese
Mexico.
community of Mexico City and is in constant
association with Hicardo T. Matusita. Orisaba
Dr. Shindzl Ishihara, allas Dr. Shindzl Ichihara
#36, whion is the addreas given for Makita, is
thu address of the Japanese Annex to the Portu-
The name of Dr. Bhindzi Ishihara, Callo 9
guese Legation.
#Bo, Cordoba, Veraoruz, appeared as "B-A" in the
Matusita list of Japanese obtained from the pos-
Bussions of Ricardo T. Matusita. Ishihara is a
Ricardo T. Matuslta, allas Mataushita
Japanese dentist wio praotices at Cordoba, Vera-
cruz. lHe is married to a vister of Mario Aoyama
Ricardo T. Matusita previously referred to
Kosaka. Upon the untry of Mexio∞ into the war
is a Japanese Clerk and translator attached to
Ishillara was foroed to move to Mexico City with
the Portuguese Lagation in Mexioo, D. F. He
other Japaese nationals. He was able there-
occupies the building at Orizaba #3e wnich was
ater to return to (ora and reestablisl nis
the Conmulate General of Japan before diplomatic
practice. It is maid tnat ne paid a "mordida"
relations between Mexico and Japan were broken.
of ,000 pesos (approx1mately $1,030) to a
Matusita, an elderly man, lives in this building
Gobernacion official for protection.
with his two daughters and a staff of Japanese
The homo of Dr. Isnihara is frequently used
servants. He gives the appearance of being in-
as a meeting place for Japanese in the State of
nocuous. However, he is considered to be dan-
Veracruz and trose coming from Mexic∞ City. He
gerous because of his position in the Portuguese
is known to be one of the important leaders of
Legation and because of the fact that all lead-
the Japanese in Mexico.
ing Japanese in Mexi∞ onstantly confer with
him, treating nim deferentially and giving him
the title, "Japanese Ambassador. " He is extreme-
Pablo Kimura, allas Satoshl Kimura Murata
ly active in matters of Japanese walfare and has
Ihe name of Pablo Kimura appears botn in the
been kmown to give instruc tions to Japanese
Maeda l1st, as No. 108, and in the Matusita list,
throughout Mexic∞.
as "8-A."
Kimura resided for a long time at Veracruz,
Salvador Shinichi Matsuo Michiyama
where he owned several stores. At the outbreak
of the war ne was removed from Veracruz and relo-
Matsuo is said to be an engineer in the
cated in Mexic∞ City. He resides at Calle Lopez
Japanese Army and was the person who showed the
#137, Apartment 1, and operates a hardware store
greatest interest in attempting to set in opera-
on Arcos de Belem, Mexico, D. F.
tion the radio transmitter allegedly owned by
Kimura has always been considered to be a
Maeda previous to his death. Matsuo made ef-
"communications expert" and has been named as
forts to find a suitable location for the radio
the one designated to carry on communications
transmitter at Cuyutlan, Jalisco, and he ob-
from Mexico through Central America to Panama.
tained Mexican Government permission to leave
No evidence nas been obtained to indicate that
Mexico City to reside in Cuyutlan.
he actually has conducted any type of communica-
Matsuo is one of the most fanatical Japanese
tion from Mexico to Central America and Panama.
in Mexico. He was bom on April 3, 1900, at
Kimura is one of the most important Japanese
Tokyo, Japan, and entered Mexico at the port of
in Mexico. He is a director of the "Comite
Manzanillo on October 3, 1928. Matsuo has lived
Japones de Auxilio Mutuo" and he is consul ted
in the States of Colima, Queretaro and Jalisco
by other Japanese in regard to all matters of
and in the Federal District. By training he is
interest to them. Kimura nas a large short-
an agricul tural engineer. However, there is no
wave radio receiving set in nis home, and the
information to rerlect that he ever worked any-
Japanese in Mexico City regularly came to his
where until October, 1943, when ne suddenly
nome to listen to broadcasts from Japan.
detached himself from his Japanese fri ends and
Manuel Padilla, whose name is associated
took a position at the Hacienda "La Labor" near
with that of Pablo Kimura on both the aforemen-
Lagos de Moreno, Jalisco, which is near Leon,
tioned lists, is a Mexican at Veracruz who was
Guanajuato. Matsuo spends most of nis time
a very intimate friend of Pablo Kimura for many
traveling to Leon and Silao, Guanajuato; to
years. Padilla aided Kimura in disposing of his
Guadalajara and Cuyutl an, Jalisco; and to Mex-
properties and businesses in Veracruz after he
ic∞ City, without Mexican Government travel per-
was relocated in Mexico City. No information
mits. Matsuo became dissatisfied with Mario
has been obtained to reflect that Manuel Padilla
Aoyama, Federico Ashida and Pablo Kimura and
actually has assisted Kimura in any communica-
other Japanese in Mexico because he felt that
tions matters in Mexico or from Mexico to points
they were not sufficiently aggressive in their
in Central America or Panama.
campaign to aid Japan.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 51
Jose Morishige, with aliases Jose Morichige,
specializing in Japaiese goods. His home is
M. Morisige
located at 42B #482, Section J, Guadalajara.
Nakakawa is known to nave a considerable amount
The name of Jose Morishige, Los Mocnis,
of money. He uses his funds to aid Japanese in
Sinaloa, appeered in tie Matusita list of Japa-
and around Guadalajara. He is a Mexican citizen
nese. tm the list Morishige was given the sym-
and formerly lived in Mazatlan, Sinaloa. He
bo1 "7-B," and beneatn nis name was written
moved to Guadalajara approximately four years
"Confidential. C. S. A. " Alej andro Sai to de-
ago. He made the statement he would sacrifice
scribed one M. Morisige, residing at Anom.
nis business at any time to save Japan. He
Sinaloa, as a loyal Japanese and an associat
said tne Japanese are not like tne Americans
of Macario Nakay. Jose Morisnige entered Mexico
and the Britisn brcause Tie Janalese will make
in 1918, is married to a Mexican woman, and nas
any personal sacrifice tor tneir country. He
added tnat i does no! care about maintaining
five children. le was naturalized as a Mexican
nis nome becalse he believes, "No one nas a home
citizen on August 5, 1927. Morisnige has gov-
in wartime." It. is known that on November 9,
ernment permission to reside in the area of Los
1313, odol fo T. Loaiza, former Governor of the
Mocnis, Sinaloa. However, it was ascertained
State of Sinaloa, now deceased, was seen in
that he is no longer living in Los Mocnis but
Nakakawa's store at Guadal ajara and left the
nas moved to \home, Sinaloa.
store in Nakakawa's car. Loeiza tnen lunched
Dr. Eduardo Shigetada Moriyama
at Nakakawa's nome.
Nakakawa is one of the members of the "Sub
Ine name "Dr. Moriy ama" is contained on the
Comite Japones de Auxilio Mutuo" in Guadalajara
list of Japanese in the possession of Ricardo T.
and is regarded as being a very astute person.
Mauusith.
He is designated to defend the interests of the
Moriyama is fi fty-six years ot age. By pro-
Japanese wnen Gobernacion inspectors appear. He
fession ne is a surgeon. le has lived for the
is regul arly visited by Japanese who travel up
past twenty-cignt years in culiacan where he
and down the west coast of Mexico. He is known
resiled on Cal le tolonia Gabriel Leyoa. lowever.
to furnisn funds and nis automobile to other Jap-
it nad been learned tuat br. Moriyama lef't Culiae
anese for treir travels.
can in May. inll, and is now residing at Avenida
Colon 761. Apartment 5, Guuualajara, Jalisco.
Macario Nakay, alias Makario Nakai
Dr. Moriyama is said to nave made a trip to
Tre name ot Macario Nakay, Los Mocnis
Japan soortly prior to 193s and stayed there for
Sinaloa, appeared in tne notebook of Alejandro
one year, wnere it is believed ne became affil-
Iated witn the Japanese Navy. Wien a Japanese
Saito wmere it was assigaed tne symbol "J-9."
warship arrived at \l tata, br. Moriyama was
on a hanl-lrawn map of the State of sineloa in
the possession of Sa ito, the symbo1 "J-9" ap-
invited by a commit te of sailors to board the
peared oppos ite the location of Los Mochis,
ship. fne doe tor was given a very deferential
reception by the officers of the Lapanese war-
Siizlon. vakay's name was al so on the satusita
ship. All the ship's officers and snip's crew
ti t, witn the sy mbo1 "1-B, " and beneatn nis
wre in dress uni form and stood at attention
I m vas wri tten "Confidential U. S. A."
wnen he neared the boat. Wren ne borded the
11 wts 1earneo in May, 19 11, tnat Macario
bon  taptain of the snip toweo respeetfully
Mkay was living at Anome, Sinaloa. He entered
and kissed nis aand.
Mexico in 19l and is married to a Mexican woman
During the at tempted retoval ot all Japanese
by whom he nas two chi ldren. He was naturalized
f'rom the State of Sinaloa in the fall of 1913,
a Mexican on May 5, 1925.
Moriyama as te only Japanese permitted to
Nakay is said to nave come from tne nome
remain in culiacan, under tre pretext that he
own ot Vi scount Rodol to To shimi tsu Maeda and
nad meart trouble. However, ne was not too ill
ss a close friend of Maeda. He makes many
to at tend to ais medi cal praetice.
trips to cul iacan where he confers wi th Dr. Jost
Moriyama allegedly nas made tae statement
.ihamura.
trat me was an otfi cer in the Japanese Navy dir-
ing Wor Id War I; ind ihat an of'f'icer of' the
Vicente Noraki
Jpanese Navy never forgets nis obli gations to
nis country. ile cl aims that tae \mericans
Vicente Noraki resioes at Comanjilla. Guana-
molest nim not only because ne was an officer
juato. le i bel i eved to nave been attacned
of tne Japanese Navy but becanse they know tnat
to the Communi cations Section of the Japanese
ne used to be in the Japanese Intelligence Serv-
Army, nolding tne rank of Captain. In nis
ice. Moriyana al so nas stated that betore the
nome tiere is a pno tograpn of nimself wearing a
Japnese Legai ion was e Losed at the i ime that
Japanese army uni form and mounted on a norse.
Mexico and Japan broke diplomatie rel ations, the
Vicente Noraki is a communications expert ano
Japanese Minister in Mexico came to Culiacan to
is looked upon as one of tne leading and most
see him.
intelligent Japaiese in that area.
Frederico K. Nakakawa
Or. Jose Seioe Okamura
Federico k. Nakakawa is the owner of the
The name "Dr. okamura" appeared on the list
store "El Sol Naciente" located at Avenid
of Japanese names in the possession of Ricardo
Juarez #317, Guadalajara. lnis is a Lirt shop
T. Matusit..
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 52
Okamura resides at General Rafael Buelna #5,
on the Matusita list of Japanese. Opposite the
Culiacan, Jalisco. He entered Mexico in 1907
name eppeared the symbol "£-B."
and on August 11, 1911, married a Mexican woman.
Mitzuo Takahashi was born in Gesaramura,
Okamura's wife is the daugnter of Francisco
Snimogeba, Taakoana, Japan. He is forty-five
Ecnavarria, one of tne richest men in Culiacan.
years of age and is a Mexican citizen. He
Echavarria owns a ranch known as "La Esperanza"
entered Mexi∞ on September 18, 1922.
near Sinaloa de Leyva, where he nas a well-
Dr. Takanashi lives in Cozolapa, Oaxaça. He
developed irrigation system to cul tivate 1,000
owns the best drug store in that city. He also
nectares of land. Echavarria makes frequent
owns two ranches, on wnich he grows bananas and
visits to the United States. Okamura is known
sugar cane. Takahashi 1s well liked by the peo-
to spend mucn of his time on n1s father-in-law's
ple living near his ranch at Tezonapa, Oaxaca,
ranch.
because he gives them medicines and medical
Okemura is one of the most active anu most
attention. However, medical doctors in Cozolapa
fanatical Japanese in all of Mexico. He is re
are his strong enemies. Takahasni is married to
garded as being one of the outstanding leaders
a pure Japanese of good family. His two oldest
of Japanese in Mexico and 1s constantly linked
sons were sent to Japan for their education.
with allegations regarding Japanese propaganda,
Dr. Takahashi has a large radio receiver
espionage and subversive activities.
over whicn he listens to war news from Japan.
He has always appeared to be very mysterious, to
Alejandro S. Saito
the people who know nim. He regularly makes
The name of Al ejandro Sai to appears on the
trips to the Mexico-Guatemala border;to Cordoba,
Matusita list of Japanese names. He resides at
Veracruz; to Veracruz, Veracruz; and to Mexico
Mazatlan, Sinaloa, address, Apartado Postal #85.
City.
At one time he was a partner in the black-ltsted
Takahashi and Pablo Kimura are very close
sporting goods store "Deportes del Noreste,"
friends and consult with each other frequently.
along wi th ano ther Japanese, Luis Shimizu.
When in Mexico City, Takanashi 1ives with
Sai to spreads Japanese propaganda among nis many
Ricardo T. Matusita at Orizaba 36, the Japanese
Mexican friends. He 1s also alleged to be an
Annex to the Portuguese Legation.
officer in the Japanese Navy although no evi-
Dr. Takahashi has always been suspected of
dence has been obtained to prove this. He ap-
naving a radio transmitter, since one could
pears to handle most of the Japanese affairs in
easily be hidden and operated in the State of
and around Mazatlan, and he 1s referred to by
Oaxaca. No definite information nas been re-
other Japanese as "The Consul."
ceived to indicate that he does possess and
Saito is thirty-four years of age and is a
operate a short-wave radio transmitter.
Japanese citizen with immigrant residence permit
Dr. Takahashi asserted in January, 1944,
in Mexico. He has lived in Mexico for approxi-
tnat a reorganization of Japanese in Mexico nad
mately fourteen years and is married to a Mexi-
caused the following Japanese in Mexico to be
can woman by whom he has three children.
designated as leaders: On the Pacific Coast,
A detailed nand-drawn map of the State of
Dr. Jose S. Okamura, Culiacan and Dr. Toshio
Sinaloa was found among the possessions of Sai to.
Shimizu, Mazatl an; Mexico, D. F., Guillermo
rhis map contained detailed coastal sounding
Makita and Pablo Kimura; Soutnern Mexico and
information, Japanese writing, letter and number
Veracruz, Dr. Ishihara and Dr. Takahashi.
symbols near various cities, and mul tiple lines
and arrows drawn on the map. Sai to was a close
Dr. Kiso Tsuru, aliases Dr. Kisso Tsuru, Dr.
friend of Viscount Maeda and it is said tnat
Kiso Turu, Dr. Kissu Turu
Saito and Viscount Maeda came to Mexico from
Japan on the same boat.
Attention is called to the section on com-
merce in which it is set forth tnat Dr. Kiso
Toshio Shimizu, alias Toshio Shimisu
Tsuru has played tie leading part in establisn-
ing Japanese commercial firms in Mexic∞.
The name of Dr. roshio Shimizu appeared in
Isuru was born in April, 1894, at Usa, Machi,
the Matusita list. Dr. Shimizu is an elderly
Oita-Ken, Japan. Ie is a Mexican citizen and is
Japanese living in Mazatlan. Altnough ne is a
married to a Japanese woman. He resides at
medical doctor, tie greatest portion of his med-
Calzada del General Mariano Escobedo #7, Mexico,
ical practice is devoted to abortions.
D. F. Dr. Tsuru appears to be active in the
Shimizu lives at Cinco de Mayo #152, Mazat-
Japanese colony in Mexico only along financial
1 an. He is well known in MazatI an and has ex-
lines. He is an important money raiser for the
cellent contacts wi th governmental authorities
"Comite Japones de Aixilio Mutuo" and appears
in that city where ne maintains a medical labora-
to have considerable contact with Ricardo T.
tory. He also owns two ranches in Sinaloa and a
Matusita and the Portuguese Legation in this
mine in the State of Sonora.
regard.
Snimizu lives very quietly and is not re-
Tsuru is not believed to be anything more
stricted or watched by police autnorities, even
than a financial leader of the Japanese in Mex-
when he makes short trips in a small fishing
ico. He appears to be the most influential
boat out into the Pacific Ocean.
Japanese in Mexico in connection with govern-
Dr. Mitzuo Takahashi, alias Dr. Mitsuo Takahashi
mental officials of hign rank. However, it is
believed that, because Tsuru realizes he is so
The name of Dr. Mitzuo Takahashi appeared
well known and further realizes that most of
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 53
his financial interests and funds are f'rozen by
the Mexican Government, he does not wisn to
implicate nimself in any activities which mignt
furtner prejudice his financial position in
Mexico.
Felipe Isokichi Yamazaki
Yamazaki is a Japanese wno came to Mexico
in 1913 and was naturalized a Mexican citizen
in 1933. He owned a garage at Tapachuoa,
Chiapas, and operated the Ford Agency tiere
until nis business was black-listed. Even
though his firm is black-listed, he attempted
to avoid intervention by an alleged sale of his
garage to Manuel Gris, a Mexican business
associate.
Yamazaki is still having goods delivered
to him in the names of nis employees and he con-
A TYPICAL JAPANESE FARM LABORER
tinues to operate nis business. He is said to
nave made occan soundings off tie Pacifie Coast
concentration of Japanese in the States of Sina-
area of San Benito during 1911 wi tn o ther Jap-
loa, Jalisco and Cniapas.
anese. ile has the written permission of the
This program for the removal of Japanese to
Governor of Chiapas to cont inue living in
the interior of the country was to have been put
lapaciula. He is looked upon as the most
into operation by the Mexican Department of
influential and leading Japanese in an area
Gobernacion. Ihe Department of Gobernacion in
whicn is considered to be of great strategic
Mexico City delegated the responsibility of
importance.
identifying Japanese living in the coastal areas
of Mexico to its employees in those sections.
Ernesto M. Yanome
Gobernacion inspectors and employees usually are
not paid more than 2)) pesos (approximately $11)
Ernesto M. Yanome formerly resided in Man-
a month. lhe power and authority vested in the
zanillo, Colima, where ne was the owner of two
Gobernacion employees and inspectors gave them
drygoods sto res. He was evacuated inl and by
an excellent opportunity to "shake down" the
the order of the Mex ican Government remoy ing
Japanese living in the coastal areas who were
enemy nationals t'rom coastal areas. while in
reluetant to leave their nomes and tneir busi-
Manzanillo he was reported to be one of the most
nesses. As a result, a regular system of
active Japanese in the vicinity. He is reported
"mo rdida" (graf't) payments by tie Japanese to
to nave been a member of the Mexican Rotary In-
the various local Governacion agents was
ternational and to nave spent a great deal of
evolved. Tnis situation constantly delayed the
removal of Japanese residents from the States of
his time ingratiating nimself wi tn the local
Mexican autnorities and businessmen, among whom
Sinaloa, Jalisco, Nayarit and Cniapas.
he di sseminated lapanese propaganda.
A second importurt fac tor in the failure to
After he had been removed from Manzanillo,
remove Jaanese t'rom tiese states is the power
Vested in the governor of eny state to issue
Yanome went to the State of Jali seo wuere ne
guarantees to the bepartment of Gobermacion that
became the secretary of the "Sub Comite Japones
the Japanese residin. in tnat state will be
de Auxilio Mutuo." Ernesto Yanome travels
under nis constant supervision and control
tnrougn the State of Jaliseo witn a great deal
and further guaranteein, their political neu-
of f'reedom. He maintains that nis travels are
trality and ineffeetiveness. Governors in the
entirely connected wi tn nis posi tion as seere-
States of Sinaloa, Jalisco, Nayarit and Chiapas
tary of the aforementioned Japanese wel fare
were given large regular montnly payments by
association.
the Jaqanese as continued "insurance" enabling
the Iapanese to remain in tneir places of resi-
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
dence. Tierefore, important Japanese elements
Phe Mexican Government formulated a program
nave remained in these states, where their
whereby Japanese res iding a long the United
presence is considered to be dangerous in view
of the tact that they are located along the
States border and along the west coast of Mexico
would be moved from those areas to the interior
west coast of Mexico.
An example of what has happened along these
of Mexico. Tnis program was as a whole quite
lines may be found in the State of Sinaloa.
successful in Baja California and in the area
Alej andro jai to, br. Tosnio Snimizu, Dr. Jose
along the Ameri can border. Recently information
S. Okamura and Dr. Eduardo S. Moriyama of
has been received indicating that certain Japa-
culiacut, sinaloa, were said to nave collected
nese who nad been moved f'rom the State of Sonora
a find fron whicn uiey allegedly paid Governor
are slowly returning to their former residences.
Rodol to l. Loaiza of Sinaloa a regular monthly
Ii is not believed that there are at the present
sum of 10,00o pesos (s1ignt1y over $2,000).
time any iapanese in Baja Cali fornia. It is
The Japanese living in the State of Sinaloa were
believed taat there now exists an unwise
therefore permitted to remain in that state
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 54
under the protection of the government, regard-
be used. He closed his hardware store in Man-
less of various ineffective attempts on the part
zanillo and moved to Pihuamo, Jalisco, where for
of the Department of Gobernacion to have them
some time he operated a mica mine. He was taken
removed to the interior of Mexico. Finally,
by Mexican authorities to Guadalajara, where he
during the fall of 1943 such great pressure was
requested permission of the Department of Gober-
placed on the Department of Gobernacion and on
nacion to returm to Pihaumo. This permission
Governor Rodolfo T. Loaiza through the Presiden-
was denied by the authorities because they
tial office that Governor Loalza was forced
stated they had conclusive evidence that he
to ren cve his political guarantees, and the
held the rank of Major in the Japanese Army.
Department of Gobernacion took immediate steps
Ernesto Itaru Saito
for the removal of all Japanese from the State
of Sinaloa for concentration ei ther in Guadala-
Sai to was interned on the grounds that ne
jara, Jalisco, or Mexico City. Approximately
had been traveling around the Republic of Mexico
sixty-five Japanese were instructed to prepare
without a permit. After having been relocated
for immediate departure from Sinaloa. Some
at Mexico City he is said to have returned with-
tnirty-five Japanese were removed by train from
out a permit to Villa Acuna, Coahuila, his for-
Sinaloa to Mexico City. Immediately intensive
mer residence. He was re-apprenended and again
efforts were made by Dr. Kiso Tsuru, Mario
intermed in the Federal District.
Aoyama Kosaka, Pablo Kimura, Ricardo T. Matusita
and Dr. Jose S. Okamura to stop the removal of
Maso Imuro Ota
the remaining Japanese from Sinaloa. A large
This Japanese was transferred from Islas
sum of money, said to be 25,000 pesos, was paid
Tres Marias. He came to Mexico on February 28,
to a nighly placed Gobernacion official in
1941, to study the economic si tuation of Mexico.
Mexico City and after a short period of time,
He was the representative of a porcelain factory
when the matter had lost its public interest,
known as "Yasuda de Nagoya," Nagoya, Japan. He
those Japanese who nad not at that time been
married Ofelia Villacana, a Mexican girl, on
removed were permitted to remain in Sinaloa,
Apri1 10, 1941. On November 5, 1941, ne wrote
and those who had been removed were allowed to
to Japan regarding some mercury and stated that
return witn government permits to their resi-
he would soon go to the United States "to kill
dences in Sinaloa. Therefore, despite a con-
Roosevelt."
certed effort on the part of the Presidential
Keiso Ito or Ito Keiso
(O ffice to remove the Japanese residing in Sina-
loa to concentration areas in Mexico, little
Ito was transferred from Hacienda Temixco to
has been accomplished.
Perote on the grounds of being a trouble maker.
He lived in Mexicali and 1s said to nave been a
The Mexican Government maintains a concen-
trained soldier. He was a member of a local
tration camp at Perote, Veracruz, where dan-
chapter of the Japanese military society called
gerous Axis nationals have from time to time
"Heimusha Kai."
been interned. However, it is interesting to
note that the Japanese who were concentrated at
Yoshio Sugano, alias Joshio Sugano
Perote were by no means the important, dangerous
Japanese in Mexico. They were, generally speak-
This Japanese owned a grocery store at
ing, the mal contents or Japanese regarding whom
Avenida Popocatepetl #74, Colonia Portales,
the Department of Gobernacion had received com-
Mexico, D. F. He is believed to be a graduate
plaints. Although many Japanese had been con-
of the Japanese Military Academy and attempted
centrated at Perote, a large number have been
to obtain information regarding the manufacture
permitted to leave and are now living freely in
of Mexican Mendoza sub-machine guns. At one
various parts of Mexico.
time Sugano was a buyer of mercury for Dr. Kiso
Some of the more interesting Japanese who
Tsuru and later became associated wi th a "Cap-
were interned at Perote are:
tain Maeda" who is believed to be identical
witn Viscount Rodol fo Tosnimitsu Maeda, pre-
Ernesto Hachiro Naito
viously referred to. It was alleged that dur-
ing December, 1942, Maeda and Sugano tried to
Tnis Japanese formerly resided in Manzanillo,
set up a radio transmitting station but had
Colima, and has a daughter who worked in the
trouble obtaining supplies for their work.
telephone exchange there. He stated that plans
Sugano was taken into custody by the Department
for raids on San Diego and San Francisco had
of Gobernacion because of these allegations
been perfected and that Japanese carriers would
against nim.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 55
Chapter 6
CENTRAL AMERICA
GUATEMALA
BACKGROUND
July, 1935, when the newly accredited Japanese
Minister, Yoshiatsu Hori, made a trip to Guate-
Population and Location
mala for that purpose. He made efforts to
In 1888, President Jose Maria Reyna Barrios
obtain the same treaty rights for trade which
the lini ted States had with Guatemala. At this
authorized the importation of Japanese laborers
time Gatemala refused to allow immigration from
into the Republie of Guatemala. Approximately
Jap:n, und refused to permit the establishment
eight hundred entered the Repub!ie tnrough the
of Japanese business houses in Guatemala.
Port of Champerico on the Paci fie Coast under
contrart to work for three years ts Laborers.
A Guatemalan Government decree, issued
principally on the fincts "E1 Zapote," "El
January 26, 1935, virtua11y stopped the importa-
Pacayal," and "San Francisco Miramar." Arter
tion of any Japanese merchandise to Guatemala.
the termination of their contraets, some of the
This decree establ ished a one hundred per cent
Japanese returned to Japan. others remained in
duty on the Japanese merchandise imported into
Guatemala, prineipally on tineas near the
Giatemala. After some negotiations, the Guate-
soutnern coast, and some married duatemalan
malan Government agreed to permit Japanese
citizens. Many died. only ten now remain.
commereial travelers in Guatemala, but would
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
"ive them tourist cards for one month's dura-
tio: only. In order to obtain such tourist
The Japanese in Guatemala have never a-
cards, the Japanese were fo reed to give details
cnieved ny social or politi 1 power. Social-
as to the nature of their business and their
ly they were con idered to be interior, and
personal background, as well as that of the
the Graten 1 ns remained aloot from trem. Like-
fi nn represented. This agreement for the entry
wise thee dapanese unjoyed no pol itical prestige.
of Japanese commercial agents also extended to
However, there na been some diplomatie acti-
tourists and students. It provided that the
vity between Japan and Guatema1.
Japanese Legation in Mexico or the Consulate in
Diplomatie relations were first established
Panama should carefully investigate the pro-
when, on Februnry 2, 1335, the Gua temalan
posed visitor and grant a certificate certify-
Government agreed to aecept Yoshiatsu Hori as
ing as to the character of the business and the
Japanese Winister to Guatemala. On June 25,
firm which the traveler represented.
1935, Yoshiatsu lori presented his eredentia1s
to the Gra temalan Government and beeane cered-
Ited as Japanese Minister to Guatemala. How-
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
ever, he had his ot fiee at Insurgentes lg0,
Irom a subversive or intelligence stand-
Mexico City, and resided in Mexico. Th- Guate-
point, the extent of Japanese activities in
malan Diplomat ie List tor 1sç6 snows Yoshiat su
Guatemala during the current international
Hori as Japanese Minister.
erisis has been virtually nonexistent. Econo-
On August 3, 1937, Saicni ro koshida was
mically, prior to 1935, the Japanese flooded
aceredited as Japanese Minister to Guatemala,
Guatemaln with articles which had been manu-
and his name appeared as Iapanese Minister on
factured in Japan at a very low cost and were
the Guatemalan Diplomatie List through 1910.
sold in Guatemala so cheaply as to undersell
Saichiro also lived in Mexico City.
all competitors. As a result, many of the
on oetober 15, 14o, Hi toshi Saton, then
Guatemalan merchants were compelled to deal
seeretary of the Japanese Diplomatie Mission to
wi th Japanese in o rier to remain in business
Guatemala, was accredited as Charge d'Arfaires.
and to meet the competition of their fellow
The Guatemalan Government had agreed on Septem-
Guat emal ans who were deal ing with the Japanese.
ber 24, 1940, to accept Yoshiaki Miura as new
The same situstion existed to a large extent
Japanese Minister, and on May 20, 1911, he was
wi th respect to the Germans. Japanese repre-
accredited as Japanese Minister to Guatemala.
sentatives did not personally handle the distri-
Bo th of these Japanese resided in Mexieo, and
bution in Guatemala, but in many cases dealt
Yoshiaki Miura had his office at orizaba 36,
through the same commercial agents who were
Mexico City.
handling German business.
All these politieal figures, on their trips
to Guntemaln, sought to mingle freely with the
important people there, but they were unsuccess-
on Miy 0, 1941, Yoshiaki Miura was in
ful in their attempts to develop politieal
Guatemala City to present his credentials to
influence.
President Ubico as Japanese Minister to Guate-
malt. He was accompanied curing this visit by
COMMERCE
Second Secretary Shigeyoshi Fukushima and Naval
Attache Captain Katuya Sato. The latter was
An attempt to strengthen commereinl rela-
believed to have attempted to secure national
tions between Guatemala and Japan was made in
defense information of value to Japan.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.94)
CENTRAL AMERICA
GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION
1300 M
UNITEDSTATES
m
1000 M
M
BAHAMA ISLANDS
E
CUBA
X
0
300 M
C
0
BRITISH
HONDURAS
GUATEMALA
HONDURAS
NICARAGUA
OOSTA
RICA
PANAMA CANAL
VENEZUELA
PANAMA
COLOMBIA
SOUTH
AMERICA
AFBI
ECUADOR
PERU

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.93)
Page 57
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
by the Japanese in China. It is interesting to
note in this connection that the former President,
On December 8, 1941, the Guatemalan Legis-
General Maximiliano H. Martinez, was awarded a
lative Assembly unanimously voted to declare
Medal of the Rising Sun by the Japanese Govern-
war on Japan. The Guatemalan Goverument imme-
ment. It was perhaps because of the recognition
diately cooperated with the American Government
of the Japanese puppet state in Manchukuo that
in such matters as preventing the transfer of
President Martinez was given this award.
gold to the Government or banks of Japan and
on January 27, 1313, the Salvadoran Govern-
freezing Japanese funds in the Republic. At
nent officially nullified its former recognition
this time the Guatemalan National Police ob-
of Manenukuo as an independent government, bas-
tained brief biographical data regarding all
ing the resolution on the rights of internation-
the dapanese nationals in the Republie of
:1 law. The Salvadoran Government expressed a
Guatemala. From that date to the present time
desire to be in solidarity with the Allied
the activities and movements of the lapanese
nntions in the war against Japan. It proclaimed
Nationals have been rigidly controiled und
that in view of the fact that Manchukuo was a
closely observed. Some ot the Lapamese were
collaborator of Japan, El Salvador no 1onger
put into jail and later were releind to work
wishei to maintain relations with this state.
under tne obseryotion of proper sntrort ties.
There hive been no known instanees of sub-
At present, only ten dapome Notiorel remrin
versive netivities on the part of the few Japa-
in the Ropublie. These Japome s Satione1s, du
nese who res ided in El Salvador.
to their advanced age and saall munber, consti-
tute no menace to the politieal stability of
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
the Republie of Guatemala nor to hemispherie
security. The Gratemal n Poliee know of no
In May of 1912, two of the Japanese resi-
instane in whien uny of these tapanese hrave
dents were sent by the Salvadoran Government to
been engoed in or nave been suspeted of sub
the Initd States for internment. These were
Benj min Tanabe and Jose Tameto Shiraki. In
versive setiviti es.
August, 19l2, Shiraki's wife and two children
tollowed him to the United States. Prior to
EL SALVADOR
1:i- time, in ltlo Antonio Shiraki and Alfonso
kane hr  returned to Japan voluntarily.
BACKGOUND
Population ana Location
HONDURAS
At the present time ueere are to Japenese
residents in E1 Sa1vador. Prior to 1310 there
BACKGROUND
were only four Japanese fomi lis besides the
membere ot the apree Lee tion. Theee taomi -
Population and Location
1 ies operated a dry scods Store, "e1 Nippon,"
There have never been more than a few Japa-
and a restaurant in San Salvador. Tne dry pood-
nese in Honduras. Some laborers have come and
tore was sold to creditors at the time of the
one during the past twenty years but at the out-
departure ef the Japenese. The pestaurant no
brenk of the war only two were living in the
lon er funetione.
country. They lived in Yoro and Toca. One is
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
still living in londuras and the other has been
deportod.
Prior to tre deel ration ot sar, te dape-
nese etivitis were very Lirited. 1 mey be
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
sid tht r1ti1pk. r  n
In viow ot the sbove situation, Japanese who
disseminat ion ot dape nese prop pand . Soee or
the Japanese in 1 Slydor njoyd my inl
nive li ved in ilonluras achieved no soe ial promi-
nonee. However. tirere has been some political
or political preti..
netivity.
COMMERCE
Prior to the break in diplomatic relations,
Lapines: Ministers aeeredi ted to Honduras were
Jose Shiradki was formerly the port owner of
stationed in Wexico City. This post was last
the aforementioned store "e1 Nippon." Bonjamin
held by Yoshiaki Miura.
Tanabe was the former proprietor eta rest uront
In June of 1311, tne Japanese Minister vis-
known as "La Ceida," whien was leeated on the
Ited Tegueigalpa and presented his credentials
San Sa1vadoran-Santa Teela road about si miles
to President Carias. He was accompanied by It-
outside of San Salvador. Both of these men were
suki Takdo and Matsuni Kato, both of whom were
Japenese citizens born in Japan. Several gears
attacned to the Japanese Embassy in Mexico. The
ayo Fanabe at tempted to obtain S1vtor n
tetivitios o! the Japanese Minister during this
cit irenship, but was not sreeessrul.
visit produeed nething ot interest other than
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
the tret trat one night he visited Joaguin Palma,
A S,Ivadoran who operates a jewelry Shop in Te-
The Government ot El Salvador has not been
ueiealpa. Palmt was a treouent visi tor to the
particularly unfriendly toward the Japanese. El
German Legation at Tegucigalpa when Christian
Solvador was one of the first countries to
Zinsser, the head of the Nazi Party in Central
recopnize the Manchukuo puppet state established
America, was Cherge d'Affa ires.
★
JAPANESE MONOORAPH LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 58
Japanese interests were represented in Hon-
until he and his wife, Petronile, were deported
duras by an Honorary Consul, Ignacio Agurcia.
in 1942, Yacota worked in Managua, Nicaragua, in
Agurcia, a native Honduran and resident of Te-
the "Taller Sajonia" whioh is owmed by Palazio
gucigalpa, was formerly married to an American
 Company. Reports indicate that while Yacota
woman. He resigned his post immediately aftor
was working in the above shop it was fremuented
the attack on Pearl Harbor.
by various Nazi Germans.
The family of Ryntaro Kondo consisted of
COMMERCE
his wife, Kimi, and their two daughters. Kondo
Oddly, in spite of the small number of Japa-
maintained a small merohandise shop in Blue-
fields, Nicaragua, up until the time he was
nese who have come to Honduras, Japanese busi-
deported. This shop was of little commeroial
ness houses succeeded in establishing themselves
significance.
in the commercial life of the country. This
economic progress may be due to the fact that
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
the purchasing power of the people in Honduras
1s very low and the merchandise of the Japanese
Because only two Japanese families existed
is cheaply made and inexpensive to buy. Further,
in Nicaragua, they had no effect upon Nicaraguan
the Japanese business houses adopted the prac-
society as a whole. No distribution of Japanese
tioe of freely extending long-term credits to
propaganda is known to have been made within
the Honduran merchants. This is contrary to the
Nicaragua. The same is true of the political
policy pursued by American businessmen.
status of the Japanese in Nicaragua.
Nearly all the Japanese firms were repre-
Japan maintained in Guatemala City, Guate-
sented in Honduras by German nationals. During
mala, a Minister acoredited to all of the govern-
the year 1941, the Export Federation of Latin
ments of Central America. There was no Japanese
America of Osaka had a representative, Yoshi-
diplomatic nor consular representation in Mana-
tanga Megurikami, residing in Tegucigalpa.
gua itself.
Megurikami returned to Japan in September, 1941.
COMMERCE
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
For the ten-year period 1933 to 1942, inclu-
There have been no known subversive activi-
sive, imports from Japan to Nicaragua totaled
ties on the part of the Japanese in Honduras.
$1, 504,217. The principal imports during this
Nei ther has it been necessary for the Honduran
period consisted of cotton cloth, toys, glass-
Go vernment to devise any elaborate methods to
ware, pottery, and small amounts of electrical
control the Japanese.
equipment.
During this period Nicaragua exported to
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
Japan merchandise totaling $1,039,246. In the
main these exports were of coffee, raw cotton,
During May of 1942, Eduardo Yashiro y Ya-
crude rubber, reptile hides, and lumber.
shiro was sent to the Uni ted States for intern-
Besides E. Palazio & Company, the following
ment. The second Japanese in the country, John
firms in Ni aragua dealt with Japan:
Iwata, was kept in custody at the National Po-
lice Headquarters, Tegucigalpa, untii March 15,
Moris D. Pataky and V. S. Souza, both of
1945. At that time he was released but he still
whom were on the United States Proclaimed List
remains about the headquarters, explaining that
of certain Blocked Nationals; Manuel Riguero;
he prefers to do this as he has no other place
Domingo Calero; Felipe Mantica; Rafael Cabrera;
to live or work.
and Alberto Orosco.
It is known that Pataky, Riguero, and Orosco
made trips to Japan for commercial purposes.
NICARAGUA
V. S. Souza was born in the Far East, sunposedly
of a Portuguese father and a Japanese mother.
He was reported to be in Japan at the begin-
BACKGROUND
ning of the war.
Population and Location
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
On December 8, 1941, when Nicaragua declared
No subversive activities on the part of
war upon Japan, there were living in Nicaragua
the Japanese in Nicaragua have been reported.
two male Japanese nationals, David Yacota and
Ryntaro Kondo, and their families. Both fami-
lies were deported to the United States as
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
dangerous enemy aliens in the early part of
1942.
There has been no trade between Nicaragua
David Yacota came to Nicaragua in 1931 or
and Japan since the declaration of war by
1932 as a member of the crew of a Japanese ship.
Nicaragua on December 8, 1941.
He disembarked at Corinto, Nicaragua, where he
The Ni caraguan Government expropriated
was employed by E. Palazio & Company (U. S.
10792 quintales (more than 1,000,000 pounds)
Proclaimed List) as an electrical engineer.
of raw cotton which had been bought prior to
Palazio & Company were agents for Japanese
December 8, 1941, for the Mitsui interests.
steamship lines in Corinto, Ni caragua, and also
The cotton was sold at public auction and the
for various Japanese fishing boats which visited
proceeds of the sale were invested in Nicarag-
Nicaraguan waters in the Pac1fic. From 1939
uan Defense Bonds.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH
LATINAMERICA
MEMBERS OF THE ECONOMIC MISSION OF COSTA RICA AND PROMINENT INDIVIDUALS IN COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY OF OSAKA, JAPAN PHOTOGRAPNED AT ITS
FIRST CONFERENCE RELATING TO THE PROMOTION OF TRADE BETWEEN THE TWO COUNTRIES.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 60
As previously indicated the two Japanese
of the Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, was in-
families living in this country were deported
vited to accompany Gurdian to Japan but deemed
to the Uni ted States for internment.
it expedient to decline the invitation.
COMMERCE
COSTA RICA
The Japanese cotton farm was managed by
Jyoho Kawakubo, who also appeared to represent
BACKGROUND
the Japanese in a diplomatic capacity in Costa
Rica. All official visitors were met and enter-
Population and Location
tained by him.
Kawakubo was born in Daigahare, Japan,
Prior to 1938 there were very few Japanese
November 3, 1901. He is an agricul turist by
in Costa Rica. In that year the Japanese Gov-
profession. Kawakubo first came to Costa Rica
ernment approached the Costa Rican Government
in August, 1937. At this time, negotiations
wi th a proposition suggesting it would like to
for the cotton raising project were carried on.
embark on a large-scale cotton-growing business
While in Costa Rica, he represented the Ministry
in Costa Rica. The idea was to ship the raw
of Commerce and Industry of the Japanese Govern-
cotton to Japan for processing and weaving.
ment. Prior to this time he had lived in Argen-
Through the efforts of Teodoro Picado, the
tina, Chile, and Peru. He and his family left
President of Congress, and his law partner,
Costa Rica for Lima, Peru, in October, 1941, and
Fernando Soto Harrison, who was Honorary Japa-
were subsequently interned in the United States.
nese Consul, a three-year concession was granted.
Yoshitaro Amano, who was reported to be
It was renewed again in January, 1941, for
an officer in the Japanese Navy, was the owner
another three years. Forty Japanese men, women
of the Amano Fishing Company, which operated the
and children were allowed to come to Costa Rica,
tuna boat "Amano." In 1935, Amano bought ex-
mostly from Peru. They tested the soil all over
tensive property on the coast of Chile south of
Costa Rica in order to find the best place to
Talcuhuano, presumably for cattle raising, but
grow cotton. Their first choice was in the vi-
it was used as a vacation spot for many impor-
cinity of Alajuela, but this was abandoned and
tant Japanese, including the Naval and Military
the project moved to a place near La Barranca
Attaches from Santiago.
not far from Puntarenas. Dr. Wilson Popenoe, an
Amano owned several businesses in Panama
agronomist for the United Fruit Company, visited
City, Panama, including Y. Amano y Cia., Ltda.,
this new location and advised that the land was
and the "Casa Japonesa." Amano also did bus1-
absolutely unsuited for cotton raising. Later
ness in Lima, Peru, under the name of K. Suetomi
the Japanese came to the same conclusi on, for
they switched to planting rice. Following the
and Company. Amano and his family left for
outbreak of war with the United States, the
Panama in September, 1941. He later tried to
Japanese ei ther left Costa Rica or were intemed.
return to Costa Rica but was refused entry by
There are now no Japanese in that coun try.
the Government. He and his family are now
interned in the United States.
SOCIAL PENETRATION
In early 1941, the "Amano" transferred
its base of operation from Balboa, Canal Zone,
The Japanese in Costa Rica never constituted
to Puntarenas, as a result of orders prohibit-
a social problem nor did they gain any social
ing Japanese fishing operations in waters ad-
prestige. They were few in number and were
Jacent to the Canal Zone. Inspection of the
chiefly engaged in cotton raising and fishing.
boat revealed that its top speed was seven or
They were regarded as inferiors by the Costa
eight knots, the radio was in poor condi tion,
Ricans and were not given any opportunities to
and the boat generally was not impressive.
modify their social level.
Nevertheless it was adequate for making obser-
POLITICAL PENETRATION
vat ions or contacts with Japanese shipping if
necessary.
Fernando Soto Harrison, a Cos ta Rican lawyer,
Shortly after the arrival of the "Amano" in
was Honorary Japanese Consul for some years. He
Puntarenas, it was established that the crew,
has been ciosely associated with Japanese activ-
numbering 14 or 15, visited the cotton property
ities and still represents the Pacific Refrigera-
at La Barranca. Some members of the crew re-
tion Company of Puntarenas.
mained there and an egual number of workers at
Pedro Surroco, a Spaniard of Puntarenas, has
La Barranca returned to the "Amano" as sailors.
spent much time in Japan and :s married to a
There appeared to be a constant rotation of
Japanese woman. Prior to the war he had many
Japanese between the "Amano" and the cotton
Japanese agencies. He is now on the United
farm.
States Proclaimed List. Though he educated his
It was known that the Japanese freguently
son in Japan, the son professes to be anti-Axis
visited in La Barranca with the German and
and resents the stigma put on him because of his
Italian sailors from their boats in Puntarenas,
father's pro-Japanese actions.
the "Eisenach" and the "Fella."
Raul Gurdian, prominent Costa Rican lawyer
Up to December 7, 1941, the "Amano" did
and ex-Minister of Hacienda, made an extensive
very little if any fishing though it was at sea
visit a few years ago to Japan as a guest of the
much of the time. Not enough fish were brought
Japanese Government, os tensibly for business
into Puntarenas to pay for the fuel. It was
reasons. Ramon Madrigal, Costa Rican Director
reported that the "Amano" contacted Japanese
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 61
boats off shore during the night just before
given, entitled, "Chronicle of Japan". It was
coming into Puntarenas, but no conclusive evi-
an attempt to influence the Panamanians politi-
dence was developed to substantiate the charge.
cally and socially under the cover of a cul-
tural program. Japanese concert music was also
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
presented for the benefit of the natives. How-
A month before Pearl Harbor, both Jyoho
ever, these programs were not effective. From
time to time the people and government officials
Kawakubo and Yoshitaro Amano left Costa Rica.
They were later interned. The "Amano" crew
became outspoken in their opposition to the
"Yellow Peril." From 1941, the Panamanian
were sent to the Canal Zone where they were
Go vernment adopted some severe measures which
put into detention camps. The cotton farmers
directly affected the Japanese, and many left
were also deported wi th their families. There
the country.
are now no Japanese in Costa Rica.
The "Amano" was taken over by the Costa
COMMERCE
Rican Government and renamed the "Victoria II,"
and was operated by Costa Ricans for the lacific
Some relatively prosperous business fims
Refrigeration Company of Puntarenas. In mid-
were operated by the Japanese in Panama. Among
1942, the "Victoria 11" sank in a storm off Cabo
the more important ones was Y. Amano and Com-
Blanco not far from Puntarenas.
pany. This business was established in 1930 as
a partnership, the capi ta1 being $45,000. The
"Alert" Incident
fim engaged in general exporting and importing,
carrying on a good business. Its imports were
Shortly after December 7, 1911, a United
silk and similar commodities from Japan and its
States tuma boat, the "Al ert", came into Funta-
exports were pearl shells, ivory, nuts, hides,
renas for the purpose of obtaining oil. The
and panama hats. Imports from the Uni ted States
Port Captain, Rafael Beeche, sent it to Caldera,
were also purchased for the small Japanese
the oil depot for the West India Oil Company,
merchants in Panama. The Central Trading Com-
for which he acted as agent. Before the "Alert"
pany, a subsidiary of Y. Amano and Company, Ltd.,
left for Caldera, someone observed Japanese in
hamlled exports for the parent firm.
the crew. A message was relayed to the Canal
Nagao and Company, Inc., operated a retail
Zone and shor tly several United States airplanes
Store under the name of Almacen Miyako. It
intercepted the "Alert" between Puntarenas and
carried novelties, silks, porcelains and dry
Caldera. The planes machine-gunned the boat
goods. It is established that this store did a
but did no serious damage, and the "Al ert." re-
business of $0,000 yearly.
turned to Puntarenas wi thout oil. It was ascer-
W. T. Yoshida and Company were exporters
tained that six members of the crew were Japa-
and importers and operated retail stores in
nese. These were immediately interned.
both Colon and Panama City. Their capi tal has
been estimated at $19,000.
The Japanese who did not work for these
PANAMA
companies were engaged as laborers, fishermen,
barbers and as small merchants. In business
they sought to undersell their competitors by
deal ing in eneap merchandise in an effort to
BACKGROUND
control the trade.
Population and Location
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
For many years Japanese have been immigrat-
Available sources reflect that the Japanese
ing to Panama. On October 31, 1311, a survey
were not able to engage in any effective sub-
was completed showing 221 male Japanese, 16
versive activities in Panama.
female, and 74 children to be residing in
Prior to the war, there were indications
Panama. The majority of these Japanese lived
that the Japanese endeavored to carry on espio-
in Panama City, Some in Colon and the remainder
nage work through the Nippon Trade Agency. This
were seattered throughout the country.
Agency was a government trade organization simi-
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
lar to the office of the Commercial Attache.
Its object was to develop the sale of Japanese
The Japanese heve never sueceeded in seri-
merchandise. The officials of the Agency left
ously penetrating either the social or polit-
Panama in 1911, befon the outbreak of the war,
ieal Li fe of Panma. They are considered by
thereby avoiding internment.
the native's to be inferior and have been sub-
The Nippon Trade Agency appeared to be the
ject to the disadvantages of social prejudice.
gutding force behind Japanese business enter-
Prior to the outbreak of World War II, Pan-
prises and organizations in Panama.
ama changed its immigration laws, which re-
The only important Japanese organization in
sul ted in the restriction of Japanese immigra-
Panama was the Japanese Barbers' Association.
tion, and aIso issued regulations curtailing
This association was not as selective as its
their commerce. The efforts of influential
name implies and it is believed that about all
Japanese to combat these measures were unsue-
Japanese in Panama belonged to it irrespective
cess ful.
of their occupations. The association is re-
In 1940 a radio broadcast, believed to have
ported to have served as a "liaison agency" be-
been sponsored by the Nippon Trade Agency, was
tween the Japanese in Panama and the Government
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH.LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 62
of Japan, seeking to maintain loyalty among its
in Panama.
members to the mother country. It was the most
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
influential, unifying force among the Japanese
in Panama, keeping them in accord with the
policies of Japan.
The Republic of Panama took rapid action
Yoshitaro Amano was one of the most impor-
relative to interming and regulating Japanese
tant Japanese leaders and was undeniably loyal
·nationals. The two presidents of the Japanese
to Japan. He was head of Y. Amano and Company.
Barbers' Association, Kohziro Hara and Hoshio
He combined his business with political efforts.
Koga were at once confined on the outbreak of
It was reported that his activities were partly
hostilities with Japan, along with 79 members of
subsidized by the Japanese Government.
the association. Practically all the remaining
Before the war the Japanese were known to
Japanese were later in terned or properly con-
cooperate closely with the Germans and Italians
trolled.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.95)
THE
CARIBBEAN
STATES
AREA
ATLANTIC OCEAN
BAHAMA ISLANDS
U
PUERTO
DOMINICAN
RICO
HAITB
REPUBLIC
ISLAND OF HISPANIOLA
CARIBBEAN SEA
m
NTBAP
AME
CANAL
SOU1A
ZONE
AFBI

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 64
Chapter 7
CARRIBEAN AREA
CUBA
BACKGROUND
The Yamanoha Group
Population and Location
This group maintained contact with the
Japanese Legation and other Axis leaders in
The Japanese population in the Republic of
Cuba at the home of 1ts leader, Manye Yama-
Cuba during the last census totaled 798. The
noha, of Havana. Meetings were held there which
majority of these individuals were engaged in
were attended by pro-Nazi Germans. Following
agricul tural pursuits and were scattered tnrought-
the outbreak of hostilities these meetings were
out Cuba. Most of them come from the lower
no longer held openly but espionage suspects
classes and many are illiterate. A great num-
continued to frequent the nouse.
ber have resided in Cuba for many years and are
Yamanoha's wife, Elizabeth Karbe de Yamanoha,
believed to have been smuggled into the island.
is a German. She was an intimate friend of many
pro-Nazi Germans in Havana. Their daughter,
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
usually known as Maria Yama, was a member of the
Hitler Youth in Havana. She was also a member
The Japanese in Cuba have taken very little
of the Compania de Arte Ascenico Italiano, an
part in the social and political activities of
organization headed by Prince Camilo Ruspoli and
that country. This is probably due to the fact
Amadeo Barletta, Italian Fascist leaders in Cuba.
that they originated from low social strata in
All three members of the Yamanoha family have
Japan and are lacking in education and finan-
been interned for the duration of the war.
cial resources.
Dr. George Yukichi Osawa, a Japanese who has
The Japanese do not mix with the Cubans.
confes sed to espionage activities, at one time
They live quietly in various sections of
had his office in the Yamanoha home.
Cuba conscious of the fact that tney are not
accepted by the natives, and are willing to re-
main by themselves, separated from the main
The Sol Naciente Group
stream of Cuban life.
In view of this situation the Japanese in
Japanese activities were also directed from
Cuba enjoy no important social or political
the "Sol Naciente," a large Japanese s tore in
influence in the country.
Havana formerly operated by Tadao Ohira and Hugo
Rinzo Ohira. Both brothers were intimate
friends of Dr. George Osawa and maintained con-
COMMERCE
tact wi th the Japanese Legation while it operat-
Japanese commerce in Cuba follows a pattern
ed, as well as with other Japanese subversive
similar to that establishedin other Latin Ameri-
groups. The father of the Ohira brothers re-
can countries. For the most part, the Japanese
turned to Japan from Cuba, and the sons have
are engaged in agriculture and small businesses.
been interned.
The agricultural products are sold locally
La Kimona Group
and some, through large business firms, are ex-
ported. However, the Japanese nave never pene-
"La Kimona" is a Japanese cleaning and dye-
trated, to any important extent, the commercial
ing establishment in Havana formerly operated by
life of Cuba. They are not regarded as con-
Hideichi Katow. From this business house an-
stituting a threat in this particular sphere of
other subversive Japanese unit operated. The
activi ties.
owner is now interned.
The Camaguey Group
GUBVERS IVE ACTIVITIES
These Japanese operated from an ice cream
The Japanese Legation was closed following
factory located at Avellaneda #206, Camaguey,
the decl aration of war between Japan and Cuba,
Cuba, the center of Japanese activities for the
December 9, 1942. When the Legation personnel
central section of Cuba. Seiichi Morikawa was
left the island, the stenographer, Eva Ogawa,
the leader of this organization.
remained in Cuba and worked at the Spanish
Organizations
Embassy, which took charge ofJapanese interests.
On February 2, 1943, Eva Ogawa was arrested and
In 1927 three Japanese societies were regis-
interned in the women's internment camp in
tered with the Provincial Government of Havana.
Havana for the duration of the conflict.
These socieities were:
Japanese espionage and propaganda activities
The Juventud Japonesa (Japanese Youth), or
in Cuba were di rected through the Japanese Lega-
ganized primarily for recreation and sports;
tion. Japanese subversive efforts emanated
The Showakai, organized for instruction and
from four different groups in Cuba, three of
recreation; and
which were in Havana. These groups were:
The Sociedad Japonesa de la Republica de
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
REPUBLIC OF CUBA
COLLABORATION BETWEEN GERMAN, SPANISH, JAPANESE,
ITALIAN AND UKRANIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN CUBA
HEADQUARTERS
BERLIN, GERMANY
NSDAP
NATIONALSOZIALISTICHE
DEUTSCHE ARBEITER PARTIE
(GERMAN NATIONAL SOCIALIST
WORKERS PARTY
SPANISH
AUSLANDSORGANIZATION
COLLABORATION
JAPANESE GROUPS
COLLABORATION
IN CUBA
NSDAP
AFFILIATED
DOMINATED
IN CUBA
COLLABORATION
DOMINATED
ORGANIZATIONS
UNION NACIONAL
BRANCH
UKRANIANA ZICH.
(NATIONAL UKRANIAN
HITLER JUGEND
UNION)
COLLABORATION
DEUTSCHER VEREIN
WINTERHILFSWERK
AFFILATED
DEUTSCHE ARBEITSFRONT
DEUTSCHER BUND
ITALIAN GROUP
IN CUBA
DEUTSCHE SCHULE

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 66
Cuba, which was by far the most important, and
ties are usually insignificant individuals with
was a political organization,
little or no training. Al though these officers
In 1929 the Japanese Consul. in Cuba recom-
are ostensibly in charge, there are certain "men
mended that these three societies be consolidat~
of action" who are the real brains of the organi-
ed under the direction of the Sociedad Japonesa
zation. Most of these men have had military ex-
de la Republica de Cuba. The Japanese colony,
perience in Japan. These societies outwardly
once organized under the latter-named organiza-
had no connection with the Japanese Legation but
tion, delegated certain individuals to be re-
were in fact controlled by it. The presidents
sponsible for the furtherance of their aims in
were paid by their respective societies and in
the various parts of the island wherever Japa-
addition by the Japanese Legation. The purpose
nese groups were found. This society was formed
of the Japanese societies was to promote anti-
to strengthen the bonds between the Japanese in
American and pro-Japanese feeling among its
Cuba and their native land.
members and among Cubans. Some effort was also
This organization had a certain amount of
made to influence Koreans away from their tradi-
autonomy and was bound by the rules and regula-
tional anti-Japanese feeling. They made it a
tions set forth by these individual delegates,
point to accept the Koreans as social equals and
where the regulations set up by these delegates
had some success in this regard, especially in
did not interfere with the general laws and
Matanzas Province.
statutes of the society.
Following the reorganization of the Japanese
The "Sociedad Japonesa de la Republica de
societies by Kawamura, considerable interest was
Cuba" had social meetings in the building at #64
stimulated but no noticeable results were ob-
Consulado Street, in which its central office
served except increased anti-American feeling.
was located. It was under the direction of the
The key men in these organizations, as well as
following officials:
certain members, were instructed that in case of
President
Hideichi Katow
an emergency such as a declaration of war, when
Vice President
Kiichi Sakakibara
the Legation would no longer exist, they should
Treasurer
Kiichi Iwama
communicete wi th Japan through the International
Assistant Treasurer
Goro Nai to
Colonization Association at Buenos Aires, Argen-
Secretary
Saburo Miyasaka
tina.
Assistant Secretary
Goro Nai to
Good-Will Cruisers
Di rec tors:
Goro Nai to
Charles Sugai
In August, 1936, two Japanese good-will
Kiichi Iwama
Chiutaro Ohashi
cruisers docked in Havana. Two days prior to
Umekichi Shimizu
Toshiki Nakata
their arrival the Japanese Naval Attache from
Yasuo Nagase
Shigemi Uyeno
Washington, D. C., as well as an alleged repre-
This organization was dissolved by consent
sentative of the South Manchurian Railroad Com-
of the members on December 7, 1911.
pany, also arrived in Havana. Subsequently an
In the Barrio of Colombia on the Isle of
important meeting was called at the Legation
Pines there existed another society called
attended by presidents, secretaries and "men of
"Sociedad Agricola de Isla de Pinos." This or-
action" of the Japanese societies throughout the
ganization held its meetings in the town of Nu-
island.
eva Gerona. About eight individuals usually
The Japanese Minister delivered a one-hour
attended these meetings. Its activities were
address in which he told of the war emergency
directed by the following Japanese:
measures being taken by the Japanese Government.
President
Nobaru Tokanaga
He warned his listeners of an approaching crisis
Secretary
Toyokishi Inouye
and exhorted them to be ready when it came. At
All of the members of the Japanese socie-
this time another attempt was made to reorganize
ties, "Sociedad Japonesa de Cuba" and "Sociedad
the Japanese societies but these efforts ap-
Agricola de Isla de Pinos," are interned in the
peared to be ineffectual. During this period,
cencentration camp on the Isle of Pines.
E. Tamura was appointed as chief of the Japanese
Japanese activities in Cuba were poorly or-
societies in the interior of the island. He is
ganized prior to 1935 when Minis ter I to was
described as a former officer in the Japanese
assigned to the Japanese Legation in Havana.
Navy, who formerly lived at Esmeralda, Cuba, and
Shortly after his arrival, K. Kawamura, os-
is now interned.
tensibly a representative of the Japanese Cotton
Company, came to Havana to organize the Japa-
War Declaration
nese through the local Japanese societies, Kawa-
mura allegedly promised Cuban revolutionary ele-
Following the declaration of war in Europe,
ments arms and ammunition which would enable
a meeting was called at the Japanese Legation
then to overthrow the existing government. It
attendud by the presidents and secretaries of
was also reported that B. Ohira came to Cuba
the Japanese societies throughout the island.
from the Canary Islands in order to aid this
The Minister addressed the meeting, as well as a
revolutionary movement. Ohira was in constant
German who spoke to them in English. The latter
contact with the Japanese Legation during his
spoke of the need for unity among the Japanese
sojourn in Cuba.
and German nations and of the importance of the
Available information indicates that the
Axis Pact and the wholehearted support of Ger-
president and secretary of the Japanese socie-
many by Japan. He concluded by predicting that
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.90)
REPUBLIC OF CUBA
Organization of
JAPANESE ESPIONAGE AND PROPAGANDA IN CUBA
HEADQUARTERS
IN JAPAN
Sakee Namjo
Collaberation
Toshiyali Ohura
with Mazis
in Caba
Chief
Chied
Chid
a
Maaye Yamanoha
Saichi Morkowe
Hadaicdai Kalow
Tadeo Ohim
Sekae Nanjo and Toshiyuki Okura were ousbed from Caba after the
declaration of war by Cuba on December 9, 1941. Under the joist
United States and Cuber, inbemament program which wes put into
effect on February 2, 1943, all male Japanese between the ages of
15 and 55 years are being interned for the deration of the war.
Seichi Morikawa, Manye Yamanoha, Hideiche Katow and Tadao
Ohira have been interned.

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 68
the German and Japanese nations were destined to
Cuban authorities and was convicted of illegal
rule the world in their respective spheres. No
practice of wedicine and sentenced to one year
specific instructions were given at this meeting,
and one day in prison. While serving this sen-
but those who attended subsequently discussed
tence, war broke out and Usawa was ordered in-
how they could most ef'fectively aid Japan in the
terned in the concentration camp on the Isle of
event of war. Consideration was given to sabo-
Pines.
taging the sugar industry in Cuba. All who at-
tended the meeting made it evident that they
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
knew what was expected of them in the event of
Following Pearl Harbor and the declaration
war.
of war by Cuba on the Axis on December 9, 1941,
Espionage
some 50 of the leading Japanese on the island
were immediately interned for the duration of
George Yukichi Osawa was born in San Fran-
the war. The remainder were at large until Feb-
cisco, California, December 17, 1905. He attend-
ruary 2, 1913, at which time the Cuban Govern-
ed various Califormia schools and later the Col-
ment, in cooperation with, and financed by, the
lege of Willian and Mary at Williamsburg, Vir-
American Government, ordered that all Japanese
ginia, where he studied medicine. In August,
males between the ages of 15 and 35 be appre-
1929, he was contacted by Henry Murai in San
hended and interned. This general round-up of
Francisco who asked osawa if he would like to
Japanese aliens netted some 30 0, making a total
travel to lapan in the interests of the Japanese
of 345 Japanese internees now confined. A very
Government. It was pointed out to him that his
small number, who were subsequently found to be
knowledge of the Fnglish 1anguage, American cus-
beyond the age prescribed by law for internment,
toms and activities would be very valuable. lle
were subsequently released. They are now con-
accepted the offer and was instructed to contact
f'ined in the Cuban concentration camp on the
Y. Isai in Tokyo upon his arrival. After reach-
Isle of Pines where some, due to their former
ing Tokyo he made this contact and was advised
economic status, are undoubtedly better off than
that the Japanese Government was interested in
they were before. This general internment of
organizing second-generation Japanese in the
males, however, appears to have worked a hard-
United States. Isai gave Osawa a list of Japa
ship on some of their families who had no other
nese key men in the nited States wi th whom he
means of support.
would work. Osawa was also advised that he
Although Cuban Government records of aliens
would be subjeet to other duties upon his return
residing on the island may not be entirely com-
to the Ini ted States. le was taken on an ex-
plete, it is believed that practically all male
tensi ve tour of Japan to impress him wi th the im-
Japanese between the ages prescribed are now con-
portance and power of that nation.
f'ined.
Osawa return to the Uni ted States the follow-
Since the majority of the Japanese in Cuba
ing December. As instrueted, he proceeded to
are illiterate farmers, poor and without social
New York City. where he contacted Roy Akagi who
or political influence, it does not appear that
was to be his primary contact and souree of
their activities present any threat to Cuban
funds. There are indications that the Japanese
security.
Christian Students Association was to be used by
him as a medium for organizing the second-genera-
tion Japanese.
osawa teas stated that in December, 1930, he
contacted one louis kimura, a Chief Warrant
HAITI
officer of the Imperial Japanese Navy. kimura
was unable to speak rnglish well, and osawa act-
ed as lis contact man and secured for nim infor-
mation pertaining to the construction and per-
formance of th: new tni ted States 1o,ooo-ton
At the time of the Pearl Harbor attack,
cruisers. 1 thongn the design used in these
there was not a single Japanese national re-
vessels became more or less public knowledge in
s iding in Hai ti. Shortly thereaf'ter, however,
1932, the Japanese knew in advance what it was.
a Japanese national who was serving as a stew-
osawa said that the information secured by him
ard aboard one of the Standard Fruit and
was of some value in perfecting Japanese cruis-
Steamship Company boats was apprehended when
ers then being made.
the boat docked at Haiti. This Japanese was
In December, 1931, osawa was ordered by ki-
interned in Haiti until the summer of 1943,
mura to go to Cuba. He did so early in 1935 and
when he was transferred to the United States
was employed ostensibly as a physician by th
for internment.
Japanese Legation. In addi tion to this work, he
At the present time, there are no Japanese
also made heal tn and sanitation surveys and
in Hai ti, and the immigration records indicate
gathered other information for the Legat ion.
that no Japanese have ever resided permanently
Mr. Watanabe, then Japanese Minister to Cuba,
in the country of Haiti. Commercial represent-
was replaced during 13:35 by Mr. 1to, wi th whom
atives occasionally visited the country before
Osawa had violent disagreements which resulted
the war. They usually contacted the Honorary
in the termination of his services. After that
Consul, Edouard Isteve, a Haitian, who resigned
time he experienced considerable trouble with
as consul following the outbreak of hostilities.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.94)
Page 69
SUEVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
There have been no indications of any Japa-
nese intelligence activities in the Dominican
BACKGROUND
Republic. It is highly possible that crews
and officials of the Japanese merchant ships
Population and Location
calling at port cities reported on information
Japanese activities in the Dominican Re-
of general interest, but no specific evidence
public have been of practically no importance
of such activities has been obtained.
due to the very few Japanese residents in that
hiyoshi Misutani, a Japanese merchant who
country. In 1939 there were only 1ive dapanese
res:ded in cjudad Trujillo, was the local dele
nationals residing un the Dominican Republie.
gate of the Japanese Federation of Exporters
and Importers in Latin America. In 1940, he
On December 7, 1,11, only one, Snoi cni Yokay.
owner of a small store at Ciudad I'rujillo, re-
roportedly approacied a Dominican Army official
in an attempt to secure airplanes and airplane
mained. He was interned by Dominican autnori-
parts from the Inited States for reshipment
ties and later deported to the Ini ted States
to Japan. He left the Dominican Republic in
tor cont inued internment as an enemy al ien.
August, 1911 for Cuba.
SOCIAL ANC POLITICAL PENETRATICN
Isteban I rieto, Jr., of Ciudad Trujillo,
acted as nonerary Japanese Consul in the Do-
1n 1es ot ne ver sm11 munater ot Lapt-
minican Republic. ie represented Japan's
nese so nave resided in tihe Dominican Republ ie
Mitsui Company tor a number of years, and in
there have been no social or political develop
1911 made an unsuccessful attempt to ship
ments of any kind.
serap iron to Japan. Frieto was instrueted in
To dopamse ove roment had no ottieial
1911 to deal with the Brazil office of the
representative in toe country otmer than an
Mitsui Company instead of the United States
nonorary consul.
office. Irieto was included on the United
Ihere hoas been no known dapanese propagan-
States Proclaimed List of Certain Blocked
da or or ni zat ion
Vat ionals on February 28, 1912.
COMMERCE
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
In the tive-year period precding the war.
As previously indicated, the Dominican
dapan ranked serond to te tni ted States ot
Government interned the only Japanese national
Ameriea as an exporter to tihe Deminiean Bepublie.
who resided in the Dominican Republie on
How ver, the Inited States supplied over 55
December 7, 1911. Since the deportation of
of the total Dominican imports, while Japan
this Japanese to the United States, there
turnished 1 ess than 11 , chiet ly si lk and cot-
nas been no occasion for further control meas-
ton txtis.
11s.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 70
Chapter 8
STATES OF NORTHERN SOUTH AMERICA
COLOMBIA
BACKGROUND
Population
From a study made of the various census
surveys submitted conceming the Japanese popu-
lation in Colombia, it has been ascertained that
there are approximately 229 Japanese-born indi-
viduals in the Republic. These people, for the
most part, have come from the poor peasant class
in southern Japan. They became farmers. The
Japanese from Tokyo are more inclined to become
m erchan ts.
MAIN S TREET OF CORINTO, COLOMBIA, WHERE THE
About fifteen years ago Japan formulated
LARGEST CONCENTRATION OF JAPANESE ARE LOCATED.
plans for extensive colonization of the western
coast of Colombia. (iver one hundred immigrants
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
arrived in Colombia on October 26, 1935, to fomm
the nucleus of this proposed settlement. Other
The Japanese in Colombia represent the lower
colonies were to be created near Cali. The
working class. Some live under extremely poor
Kaigai Kogyo Kaisha and the Nippon Yusen Kaisha,
working conditions. None of these Japanese
both outstanding Japanese business enterprises,
enjoy any important social or political influ-
assisted in promoting the venture. However,
ence.
public opinion was opposed to Japanese immigra-
They are reserved and keep themselves aloof
tion and as a consequence the Colombian Govern-
from the native Colombians both individually
ment was forced to oppose Japan's plan for
and collectively. Only a very few leave the
colonization in that country.
colony and they do so for the purpose of min-
gling with the Colombians to sell their products.
Location
A small percentage of the Japanese have inter-
The following number of Japanese are located
married with the natives but never with any
in the various political divisions of the coum-
Colombian family of prominence.
try: one in Amazonas; two in Antioquia; twenty-
The Colombians regard the Japanese as being
six in Atlantico; one hundred and fifty-four in
inferior and they show no inclination to accept
Cauca; ten in Cundinamarca and thirty-six in
the orientals socially or permit them to exer-
Valle del Cauca.
cise any political power in their country.
The largest concentration is near Corinto,
Cauca Department, and numbers approximately 80.
This group is engaged in the production of beans
on "El Jagual," a farm of about 1200 acres oper-
ated on a community plan. All members have pre-
scribed tasks to perform, and gain their living
from the sale of products harvested. The colony
is governed by a leader who is elected for a
period of one year.
There is another small Japanese colony at
Palmira near the city of Cali, consisting of
about 400 acres of level, flat land. These
Japanese are likewise employed in raising beans.
They entered Colombia before the Colombian law
prohibiting oriental immigration was adopted and
are therefore well established.
THE "PLAZA" AT CORINTO.
These two Japanese farms grow 70 per cent of
the beans raised in the comtry. The colonists
COMMERCE
are frugal and efficient farmers. The other
Japanese are spread about throughout the Repub-
Prior to the outbreak of war in the Pacific,
lic with the majority residing along the Pacific
Japanese in terests in the Republic of Colombia
Const.
were active in the purchase of scrap metal. It
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
☆

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
Colombia—
Political Divisions
Saate
Morte
Barranquille
ATLANTIGO
OCEANO
Corlsgene
ATLANTICO
PANAMA
MAGDALENA
BOLIVAR
DE SANTANDER
VENEZUELA
ANTIOQUIA
SANTANDER
Areuce
ARAUCA
Medellin
OCEANO
CHOCO
Carreño
PACIFICO
Quibdó
CALDAS
CUNDINAMARCA
Tunle
BOYACA
Manizales
O
BOGOTA
VICHADA
VALLE
Villavicencio
TOLIMA
META
CAUCA
Neiva
PopayanO
HUILA
VAUPES
NARINO
Calamar
PasioO
OFlorencie
Mocos
CAQUETA
PUTUMAYO
ECUADOR
BRASIL
AMAZONAS
PERU
oticio

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 72
was reported that on February 20, 1941, a
Trunezo Yagi, all of whom had arrived in Colom-
Japanese boat left Puerto Colombia with 2,500
bia from Guayaguil, Ecuador, during October of
tons of scrap iron purchased through the German-
1940, were the instigators of a law prepared
controlled firm Casa Helda of Barranquilla.
for the National Congress Jointly by the Min-
Under the pretext of shipping the metal to the
istry of Labor and the Ministry of National
Uni ted States, an export license was obtained
Economy, to permit the Colombian Government to
and the metal cleared for Japan. These activi-
import rayon direct from Japan and to sell the
ties were carried on by Japanese commercial
rayon to private interests.
agents largely through the facilities of the
In January, 1941, a commercial mission from
Mitsui Company and the Nippon Trade Agency.
Japan arrived in Bogota, Colombia, with the
Active in this type of work were S. Suganami
announced purpose of examining the prospects of
and Daisaku Hayasi. The former represented the
buying raw materials such as platinum, hides,
Nippon Trade Agency in Colombia. He was subse-
wool, coffee, gold, rubber and oil. This
quently identified as one who had been arrested
mission was composed of the following persons:
for espionage in the Philippines and later
Ryoiti Mizutani of the Commercial Department of
deported.
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Japan;
Hayasi was a special commercial represent-
Yujiro Kunimatsu of the (Oriental Trading Com-
ative of the Witsui Company and was very active
in the attempt to purchase serap metal. During
pany; Buitoro Torii of the Japan Dye Stuff Manu-
facturing Company; Shin Takeda of Hitachi Ltd.;
his business dealings with Colombian nationals,
Fujio Suzuki of the Mitsubishi Trading Company;
Hayasi stated that Japan was sending commercial
representatives all over South America to pur-
and Yoshio Yoshikawa of the Nippon Mining Com-
chase scrap metal for the government. On Apri1
pany.
18, 1941, reports were received reflecting that
Following the outbreak of war between the
Colombian authorities had issued an export
United States and Japan, the commercial activi-
license for 2,000 tons of scrap metal for ship-
ties gradually lessened and those which remained
ment to Japan. The license was said to have
became more subject to Colombian Governmental
been issued to Alberto Gutierrez Mefia. It
control.
was stated that approximately 60 per cent of
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
the metal was taken from government railroad
materials. The Japanese Government reportedly
Prominent among the Japanese in Barranquilla
handled the shipment and acted through local
and considered to be their leaders in subver-
representatives of Nikko Boyeki Shokai, Ltd.,
sive activities were Eduardo Doku, Koichi
the most influential of local Japanese firms,
Ogawah and Shigeki Tatekawa.
which had a branch located in Barranguilla.
During the time that Otto Mangels, a known
During this period, the Japanese commercial
advocate of the Axis, was resident in Barran-
in terests had a standing offer to buy all
quilla, he gave several parties for Japanese
scrap iron, with export license expenses paid,
residents of Barranquilla. The three afore-
for 28 pesos a ton. This price was 4 pesos
mentioned Japanese were among the guests. The
per ton over all other offers for the purchase
German Consul in Barranquilla before the war
of scrap iron in Colombia.
was also a participant in these parties. This
Available evidence indicates that prior to
close contact between Mangels and the Japanese
the beginning of war between the Uni ted States
colony in Berranquilla was known to have con-
and Japan, a representative of the Mitsui
tinued even after the beginning of the war and
Company was in Bogota conferring with the
up to the removal of Mangels to Bogota, Colom-
National Coffee Federation to negotiate the
bia on February 2, 1943, by order of the Colom-
purchase of a large amount of coffee for ship-
bian National Police.
ment through Japan to Russia and Germany.
This was to be an outright sale and in com-
At one time while Japanese boats were still
pensation for this deal, the representative
calling at the port.of Barranquilla, Colombia,
informed the Colombian Government that he
it was believed that these boats were deliver-
would like to obtain permission to bring in
ing Nazi propaganda to the Nazi party leaders
twenty Japanese experts for an agricultural
in Barranquilla. There also was some evidence
school. The Japanese were also in terested in
indicating that the Japanese were contributing
securing options on oil and other mineral land.
to the German Red Cross and to the activities
Guillermo Rodriguez Fonnegra, a Colombian oil
of the German Club.
dealer, was informed that the Japanese Govern-
It is interesting to note that the names of
ment was prepared to purchase Government roy-
Shigeki Katagawa and Yosio Ishii, of Barran-
alties, private royalties and any production
quilla, were listed in the address book of
ava1lable in contracts totaling 100,000 tons,
Nobuo Yatoh, a Japanese citizen who traveled
purchase price CIF Colombian ports. The Japa-
through Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and
nese also wished to purchase such strategic
Bolivia. He was reportedly engaged in espionage
materials as manganese, molybdenum and chromite,
activities for the Japanese Government during
or to secure mineral leases on potential pro-
his travels. Yatoh was repatriated to Japan in
ducing tracts.
1913 at the reguest of the Japanese Government.
The name Shigeki Katagawa, as listed by
It is believed that three Japanese nationals
Yatoh, refers to Shigeki Tatekawa who as pre-
named Toranosuke Nakamura, Tadao Nakamura and
viously stated was one of the Japanese leaders
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.91)
Page 73
in Barranguilla. Yosio Ishii, as listed by
Takeshima was regarded by the Colombian
Yatoh, is believed to have been identical with
authorities as a dangerous enemy alien, and was
Yosio Isii, who represented kato and Company
ordered to leave Cali and take up his residence
Ltd., of Yokohama, Japan, in Barranuuillt,
in Bogota. This order was complied with in 1s43.
Colombia. Isli was reported to have deparied
Whil in Rogota, Takeshima was an employee of a
fo lo ucigalpa, Honduras, by airplane in
glass shop at Carrera 11, No. 9-43. on farch
August of 1911 from Ba 1boa, Cana1 Zone, after
3, l.11, ihe was placed in the concentration
naving eone from Parranquilla to Medetlin, and
p at rusagasuga, Colombia. Takeshima,
theo to Panama.
hiring his interrogation before internment,
At ti. outbreak of hoitilities in the
stited that there were absolutely no Japanese
Pacifie area tie Japanese Colony in Cali con-
urganizations in Colombia. This statement
sisted of five Japanese nationals. hese Japa-
corresponds to the results of investigation
nese ouerated small stores in Cli, and were
nich failed to show the existence of Japanese
mever con idered to be in any way soeially or
opeanized soci-ties in Colombia.
politieally prominent.
He also st. ed that he wished to retury t
Twe of the ore promrinent these Japanpees
1:pin tnd tha ie wanted Japan to win the war.
in Cali were interned in Fusagasuea inasmuch às
In the Dep rtment of Antioquia, a Japanese
they sere considered doneerous enemy aliens by
notiona1 nomed koichi Minami, was at one time
ure Colombi mntiorities. These two individr1
telieved to be engaged in the distribution of
were Yuzo Pokeshim. nd Koi eni Touura.
Japanese propaganda in Medellin. Minami was
Yuzo Tokeshimee was the owner of  very
born (ctoter 12, 1903, in Tokyo, Japan, and
prosperot- stere in Cali and dida 1org volume
came to colombia in 192), entering through the
of bu ines ith the eri eul turtsts whe worked
port of Buenaventura. Follow ing his arrival in
the tre in the vieinity. 1t w also reported
Medellin, winami was for a time employed as a
tieet on ver1 oion e nd rndled the
silyersmith Ly Pardo Tovar and Company.
pl o1 the produ prom e 1p Frm. F1
In october of ltl3, Nationa1 Police detec-
1.1.1. 1 Corinto.
tives made a thorough search of the residence
1rCelombiain Angust
in whin Minami lives with his Colombian wife
1 ros md debrket n Prervenoare. Coloabia.
n? tneir daughtr. Nothing of an inerimini-
Pirin 1 rdn in 11i 1t as11d
nt ing niture was found. Minagi stated at that
tat  s speeiat  nt ot the dapnese
time that ne was doing odd jobs, silversmithing
tevernment and was ehareed with the responsi-
tor churcnes and occasionally for Medellin
bility ot looking af'er Joponese interests in
jiwolrs. Despite the fact that Minami pro-
tae Department ot \a11e de1 Couea. He was
fessed to have no interest in political matters,
reeardel as strongly anti-Amerien and was
tn n'tional autnorities have considered it
known to ieave at tended severt1 pro-Nazi meet-
advisable to keep him under observation.
in he1l in C1i. He import1 a11 supplies
Minimi is on the United States Proclaimed List
tor al 'ore in Cali from the tollowine firms:
in Colombia.
Vapoy: Probuets Expori Associetton, Nagoya.
In Bogota, the number of Japanese residents
Japan: Koniski Trading Company, Tokyo: and the.
changes freguently. whil- many Japanese nation-
Vik Poki Sho L... Foky
a1s came to Bogot: upon being ordered to the
interior by the national authorities, they were
generally interned within a short time after
they arrived in the city.
Among the dapumese nationals still resident
in Bogota is lesagoshi Eshima Yasumaga, with
Liases, ilisayoshi esnima Yasunaga, Fernando H.
reimo. Yosumago was born in Tokyo, Japan, on
May 2, 1g1o. He entered Colombia on June 10,
1g3o. According to reports, Yasumaga, an
igricultural chemist, was at one time the chief
of Fi les and Translator in the Japanese Legation
in Bogota.
Yasumaea was a 1so reported to have played
in important part in the founding of the farm
E1 Jugual at Corinto.
During 1911 there were indications that
Yasumaga might be involved in securing informa-
tion for the Spanish Legation in Bogota. de
was an asse iate of Arturo Rajul, former Chan-
cel lor of the Spanisn Legati cn, and was known
to meet him under suspicious circumstances.
Yasumaga had traveled extensively throughout
Colombia, but as investigation indicated that
n was engaged in seeuring information of a
military nature, his travel permit was can-
A COLONIST AT BARRO-COLORADO.
celed and a reserve judgment was issued by the
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPHLATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 74
Department of National Security for his expul-
September 22, 1943, ordered to the interior of
sion from Colombia. At that time it was
Colombia. He is now living in Bogota, Colombia.
expected that the Spanish Legation would send a
letter protesting his removal and stating that
Koichi Ogawah
Yasumaga, by reason of his knowledge of agri-
cultural chemistry, would contribute to the
Ogawah originally came to Colombia on
welfare of the Republic if allowed to stay in
August 7, 1940, and at that time stated he was
married but had left his wife in Tokyo, Japan.
Colombia.
Late in 1y44 it was ascertained that
Ogawah was born in Tokyo on August 11, 1913,
Yasumaga was still in Bogota, where he was
and upon his arrival in Barranquilla, Colombia,
employed as an instructor by La Escuela Normal
gave as references Eduardo Doku and Shigeki
Superior.
Tatekawa. He established himself with Nikko
Boyeki Shokai Ltd., which was registered at the
Prominent Japanese
Chamber of Commerce in Barranquilla as being
represented by the partners Koichi Ogawah and
Shinichi Suganami Okumura
Eduardo Doku. Ogawah traveled extensively in
Colombia and was known to have visited Suganami
in Bogota, Colombia, on several occasions. It
Suganami came to Colombia in 1928 from
was reported that Suganami was the superior of
Balboa, Canal Zone. Upon his arrival, he gave
Ogawah in Colombia. On April 14, 1942, Ogawah
as references Otto Mangels and Alfred Robeliein
departed from Colombia for Japan by way of a
Peralta, both of whom were known to be ardent
diplomatic steamer.
Nazis. He made return trips to Japan, and on
his third arrival in Colombla was registered as
SHIGEKI TATEKAWA
the head of the following Japanese companies
operating in Colombia: Nippon Trade Agency,
Tatekawa arrived in Colombia on November 23,
1y38, and made his home in Barranquilla. In
Agencia Comercial Japonesa and the Japan-
Colombia Trading Company. In Barranquilla he
1y32 he married a Japanese woman and as a
also represented the semi-official Japanese
result of this union has five children.
firm Boyeki Kumiai Chuckai del Japon. Suganami
He operated a general mercantile establish-
was involved in several purchases of scrap iron
ment and cafe in Barranquilla and as success-
for Japan and attempts to purchase strategic
ful in his business activities. Tatekawa was
a very close friend of Eduardo Doku as well as
metals.
Otto Mangels. The name of Shigeki Tatekawa was
Suganami, al though wishing to remain in
Colombia, was deported via the SS "Cardio" on
included in the list of addresses carried by
Nobuo Yatoh, a Japanese citizen who traveled
April 18, 1942, after it was determined by the
national authorities that his presence in
through Colombia and who was believed to be a
Colombia was merely for the purpose of gather-
Japanese espionage agent.
ing commercial information for Japan.
On Septeber 28, 1943, Tatekawa and his
family left Barranquilla, Colombia, for Bucara-
Eduar do Doku
manga, Colombia, upon instructions issued by
the National Police of Bogota. On May 30, 1944,
Doku first arrived in Colombia on February
being considered a dangerous enemy alien by the
21, 1918, at which time he was using the name
Colombian authorities, he was interned in
of Toshio Doku Shiotani. Upon his arrival he
Fusagasuga, Colombia.
claimed that he was single and had come to
Colombia to work for himself. Shortly after
Shiro Kuramoto Naito
his arrival in Barranouilla, Doku established
Kuramo to, although not considered as one of
himself in a small town called Usiacuri, lo-
the strong Japanese leaders in Barranquilla,
cated in the Department of Atlantico. In 1921,
was, nevertheless, interned on May 30, 1944, in
as he wished to marry, he changed his name to
Fusagasuga, Colombia, by order of the Colom-
Eduardo, was baptized in the Catholic Church,
bian National Police. The internment was the
and married Candelaria Bermejo, a Colombian.
result of reports received to the effect that
To this union there were born five children.
Kuramoto's barber shop in Barranquilla was a
While in Barranquilla Doku had operated a
gathering place for Japanese and Axis sympa-
prosperous cafe. One of the sons of Doku married
thizers. Available evidence reflects that
a Colombian. Another son enrolled in the Nation-
Kuramoto always praised the totalitarian
al School of the Naval Academy in Cartagena.
regimes and had distributed Japanese and Axis
A search made of the home of Doku revealed sever-
propaganda.
al photographs of the oil fields of Barrancaber-
meja.
Koich: Tamura
Doku was registered in the Chamber of Com-
merce in Barranquilla as being a representing
This man, a Japanese national, was interned
in Fusagasuga, Colombia, on April 4, 1944. He
partner along with Koichi Ogawah of Nikko
Boyeki Shokai Ltd. He was reported as being an
had been a resident of Cali, and operated the
intimate friend of Shinichi Suganami Okumura.
Casa Japonesa, a small retail store, in that
Doku, because of his connections with
city. The Casa Japonesa dealt mostly in the
business of importing and selling flower and
Suganami, was considered by the national au-
thorities to be a dangerous alien and was on
vegetable seeds. Prior to his inclusion on the
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.94)
Page 75
United States Pro lai ! i is:, most of the
Laureano Gomez, former leader of the Con-
seeds imported by Tamur   from ir United
servative Party in Colombia who was exiled
States.
from his country during the middle of 1944 be-
Tamura was at cne   d  be the man-
cause of revolutionary activities, was seen
ager of the Japan  cortnto. other
frenuently in consultation with the Japanese
reports indicate   s irportant
Charge d'Affaires.
The Spanish Legation
The Japanese diplo:
oCombia
were repatrint
The Spanish Legation in Bogota was placed in
which sailed frenI:
,on
charg? of J apanese interests in Colombia
Apr11 20, 1912. 11
following the outbreak of the war. Even before
ing the then Japaree
y
the departure of t he Japanese diplomatic
handling his affoirs in  the
party, the Spanish Government had lent its
departure from the coun'.ir 1so
facilities in Colombia to advise the Japanese
been a guest at a party   t  mish
Minister concerning orders for Tetuo Morimura
Minister for the departing daoa se diplomats.
to prorced to argentina rather than to Japan
It was reported that Tamura was in lude! as 
with the other members of the departing lega-
guest at the special recalest of the Japonese
tion. These orders were sent by a cable from
Minister.
the Spanish Foreign Minister, Serrano Suner,
to the Spanish Winister at Bogota, Colombia.
Tamura was also known to order a member of
his firm to meet any prominent Japanese indi-
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
vidual arriving in Cali, subsequently inviting
the visitor to his home as a guest.
After the outbreak of hostilities between
In the early part of 1913, information was
the United States and Japan and the subsequent
received which indicated that Tamura was vi-
severing of diplomatic relations between Colom-
lly interested in the traffic of American
bia and Jepan, the resiuents of the Japanese
is in the port of Buenaventura, Colombia.
colony "El Jagual" were ordered not to leave
Timura, when interrogated before his in-
the region of Corinto. They were also re-
'nt, denied "ny connection with subversive
quested to fill out forms giving complete
information relative to their personal status
: itjes in Colombia and also the existence
: ny Japaneso socirty in Colombia. When
stioned, Tamura stated that naturlly he
11. mar2o 11/43. Presenta
'ould like to see Japan win the war but that
1 would like to continue his residence in.
resa el 13 del resentà
Colombia.
n lu r de su r
Japane se Legation
Before repatriation of the diplomatic
IANAZIONAL
party on the SS "Acadia" in 1912 to Japan, it
was believed that the Japanese Leg"tion in
Bogota was harboring a secret wireless station.
This belief was substantiated when a radio
Oimal de Roguto
transmitting set was secretly extracted from
the luggage of the departing diplomats during
the trip to the coast.
The Japanese Minister, Hisao Yanai, was,
before his departure, arrested by a policeman
in the National Park in Bogota taking photo-
graphs of the large relief map of Colombia,
PUBLRA
COOMA
which is one of the main attractions of the
POLLIA NACIONAL
BECCION DE EATRANJEROS
park. The information he obtained was of
course not confidential, but it was a con-
venient method of obtaining a detailed relief
de la Seccion e Extranteres hace constar
map of the Pacific Coast of Colombia. The
aana
Minister apologized and was release?.
 d
The name of Noboru Wa'ate, believed to be
de t edula de pomaneria No 64764
Potader
identical with Noboru watanabe, Secretary of
the Japanese Legation, who was repatriated on
the SS "Acadia" in i912, was 1is ted in the
 ue ale poy 
address book of Nobuo Yatoh, previously men-
tioned as a suspected agent in South America.
Available evidence indicates that the
Japanese Legation before its departure, was at
all times engaged in the gathering and reporting
of information on every phase of Colombian
SAMPLES OF JAPANESE TRAVEL PERMITS ISSUED BY
activity, particularly commercial activity.
COLOMBIAN AUTHORITIES.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 76
and activities. According to later reports a
caused by the fact that they are generally con-
constant guard established around the colony by
sidered to be inferior by the Venezuelan people.
the National Police was not effective. A plan
They have no political influence and are re-
to install road control systems and an office
garded as being illegally in the country.
of identification for the Colony was not carried
Prior to the break of diplomatic relations
through.
on December 31, 1941, Japan was represented in
In July of 1943 a search was made of the
Venezuela by a Minister, Kiyoshi Yamagata. He
Colony by the National Police in order to inves-
was recalled from his post in the summer of
tigate rumors of hidden gasoline supplies and
1y41. His political influence was negligible.
concealed firearms. As a result of this search,
it was determined that the entire colony had a
COMMERCE
total of approximately 5,220 gallons of gaso-
Japanese business firms are of slight eco-
line; 545 gallons of oil; 3,000 pesos in cash;
nomic importance in Venezuela. Except for two
approximately 25 usable tractors; 2 rifles; 8
light hardware firms, all are small retail gro-
revolvers, 7 of which were confiscated; and
cery stores. Japanese males in Venezuela are
8 short-wave radios, which, when examined by a
employed in these business enterprises except
radio expert accompanying the searching party,
one who operates a small truck farm near Ciudad
were stated to be receiving sets of standard
Trujillo. while these firms and their proprie-
makes. It was also reported after this search
tors are on the Proclaimed List, there has been
that the local authorities intended to estab-
little observable effect on their business. All
lish a more stringent control of travel by the
have managed to keep adequately stocked with
Japanese in the Colony. Despite constant
imported as well as domestic merchandise. It is
rumors and reports to the effect that the Japa-
known that they buy through Venezuelan citizens
nese nationals of El Jagual were pro-Axis, and
who are employed as clerks in their stores.
engaged in espionage activities on behalf of
while their business has decreased, they are all
the Japanese Government, investigations nave
believed to have saved sufficiently prior to the
not shown any subversive activities on their
outbreak of the war to enable them to withstand
part. The majority of these Colombian Japanese
the effects of P'roclaimed List action. The
are undoubtedly pro-Axis in sentiments but they
Venezuelan Government has hesitated to take
do not have the opportunity to translate their
steps to close these business houses because it
beliefs into action.
does not wish to make the Japanese public
charges.
Before December, 1941, many Venezuelan deal-
VENEZUELA
ers in textiles, small electrical supplies, toys
and minor household wares, imported more than
fifty per cent of their needs of foreign mer-
chandise from Japan. A number of Japanese trade
BACKGROUND
missions came to Venezuela in the decade preced-
ing the war and were generally well received.
Population and Location
The Chamber of Conmerce took an active interest
The Japanese population in Venezuela was
in entertaining these missions, as it did the
composed late in 1911 of fifty-eight individuals
foreign missions of other countries.
of these, twenty-three were children, all of
Prior to the war, imports from Japan rose
whom were born in Venezuela and might be classi-
rapidly to the point where they so far exceeded
f'ied as Venezuelan subjects. The adults were
exports to Japan that official action was taken
all born in Japan, and came from the same sec-
to curb them until a more favorable relationship,
tion, which was near Tokyo and Yokohama. Of
from the Venezuelan point of view, could be
this total Japanese populat ion in Venezue la,
reached.
fifty lived in Caracas, one near Ciudad Bolivar,
Imports from Japan in 1935 were valued at
two in San Cristobal de Tachira, and five in San
Bolivares 4,700,000 (about $1,410,000), while in
Antonio de Tachira. No Japanese reside in the
1940 imports reached a value of Bolivares
great oil-producing center of Maracaibo.
9,946,000 (about $2,983,800). Exports to Japan
The entire Japanese population in Venezuela
for these years were valued at Bolivares 54,588
has never exceeded one hundred individuals.
(about $16,376) and Bolivares 1,470,000 (about
This has probably been caused by the immigration
$141,000), respectively. The trade stopped com-
laws, which are so worded that only members of
pletely at the time Venezuela broke relations
the white race may enter Venezuela. None of the
with Japan on December 31, 1941.
Japanese who are now in the country entered
prior to 1927.
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
Due to the small size of the Japanese colony
in Venezuela, there have never been any known
The Japanese in Venezuela are not important,
Japanese organizations or subversive activities.
either socially or politically. They seldom
However, the Japanese are clannish and associate
leave their stores, which also serve as their
almost exclusively with each other.
homes. They are clannish and have never mixed
Probably the only company that was utilized
with the native population, and do not show any
for subversive purposes was the firm "La Casa
inclination to do so. This might have been
Japonesa." This enterprise was established in
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.97)
REPUBLIC OF VENEZUELA
2
72
70
12
CARIRREAN SEA
F OF
VENIEUKIA
CORO
MANACAIBO
10
10
MATURIN
BAN CRIBTOBAL
COYRAR
BAN FERNANDO
DE APURE
COLOMBIA
SAN FERNANDO DE ATABAÑO
BRAZIL
2
2
76
72
70
68
65
among the colonies of the North American continent came
United States of Venezuela, represents a united country,
to the attention of the people of Venezuele. A series of rev-
the composition of which consists of twenty states, two ter-
olutions followed.
ritories, and the Federal District. Caracas, the capital, is
Through the untiring efforts of Simon Bolivar, soldier, states-
located in the Federal District.
man and leader of several revolutions and battles, "El Liber-
In 1498, on his third voyage, Christopher Columbus reached
tador" finally won the independence of Venezuela as well
South America in the vicinity of the mouth of the Orinoco
as Colombia, Peru, Bolivia and Ecuador.
River and sailed elong the northeastern coast of what is now
One of the well-known battles siding in the independence of
known as Venezuela.
Venezuela is the famous battle of Carabobo led by Simon
Following Columbus came Alonso de Ojeda, Vespucci, and
Bolivar, June 24, 1821. The patriots'victory marked the turn-
their men in 1499-1500, reaching Lake Maracaibo. Because
ing point in the independence movement in Venezuela, whose
of the physical features of this surrounding terrain, the region
independence did not officially come until years after the
was called Venezuela "Little Venice". For two and one-half
death of Simon Bolivar on December 17, 1830. Not until
centuries colonization was carried on by Spanish governors.
March 30, 1845, was the independence of the republic
A feeling of discontent arose among the natives. The liber-
recognized by Spain in the Tresty of Madrid.
al phiiosophy of Europe and the struggle then taking place

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 78
to the State of Arague in the interior of the
country, by the Ministry of Interior. However,
he never complied with this order and it was
rumored that a high Venezuelan official had
interceded for him.
FARM LABORERS
1937 and dealt in light hardware, chinaware,
household goods, toys, novelties, and related
articles. It was originally started by Seijiro
Yazawa, with F. Kanematsu and Company, Ltd. of
Kobe, Japan, as a silent partner.
JAPANESE FARMLAND
The business was said to be retail, but it
is known that through the medium of this firm
Prosably the most important Japanese who
consignment stocks of Japanese textiles and
ever lived in Venezuela was the aforementioned
other products were maintained in Caracas, and
Seijiro Yazawa, who was believed to be engaged
Japanese officials in Caracas superintended its
in securing information of value for the Japa-
operations. The capital of the firm was Boli-
nese Government. Yazawa originally came to
Venezuela from Panama in about 1931. He first
vares 100,000 (about $30,000). Tnere were f1f-
worked as a fishermen off the Island of Margar-
teen employees. While it is not known whether
ita and later, in partnership with F. Kanematsu
this firm ever sent money to the Japanese Gov-
and Company, Ltd., founded "La Casa Japonesa"
ernment, it is known that Yazawa, through this
in Caracas.
company, sent funds to Kanematsu and Company
Yazawa had a number of receipts in his pos-
and also to Nippon Ka isha in Japan. It is
session, showing he had purchased a quantity of
further known there was considerable Japanese
diamonds. He also had many maps of the Carib-
propaganda matter in this store. Early in 1911,
bean Sea area, adjacent to Venezuela, which he
Yazawa sold his assets in the company to Kane-
said he had used when he was in the fishing
ma tsu and Company, which later sold the entire
business. He kept a map of the Gran Sabana area
business to Seiichi Ametani. Ametani was one
of Venezuela hidden in a secret compartment of
of three Japanese merchants who left Venezuela
his desk, in a room which was always locked.
in May, 1912, for repatriation to Japan, and
Yazawa left Venezuela in August, 1941, in
the store has been closed since his departure.
great haste in order to return to Japan. Upon
Prominent Leaders
leaving Venezuela, he went to Barranquilla,
Colombia, where the Japanese Charge d'Affaires
Since the return to Japan of Yazawa in
was waiting for him at the airport. Following
August, 1911, and the departure of the Japanese
this, he traveled to Cali, Colombia, and from
Legation staff in May, 1942, there has been no
Cali took a short trip to Cortino, Colombia.
clearly defined leader of the Japanese colony.
Here there was assembled a sizable Japanese
However, at the present time, Yuzo Yonekura
colony and Yazawa was seen distributing small
Yamashita is the spokesman for this colony. on
sums of money among them. He also obtained a
several occasions, when the Spanish Minister
package containing sketches and blueprints. On
desired information on the Japanese colony, he
one of these sketches was the title "The Land
secured it from Yonekura.
Salt Mines of Colombia."
Yonekura arrived in Venezuela from Japan in
Upon his arrival in Japan, Yazawa was met at
1937. In Caracas he was the business partner
the pier by the former Civil Attache of the
of Sakae watay at one time, and was known as a
Japanese Legation in Caracas. In Japan, Yazawa
close friend of Seijiro Yazawa. He frequently
was the subject of much attention and was ex-
visited the Japanese Minister and later the
tended official courtesies. There he talked
Charge d'Affaires. It was reported that in 1942
over the radio on the subject of the war.
he was arrested at a Control Station in Central
Sa'ae watay entered Venezuela in 1939 from
Venezuela, at which time he had in his posses-
Panama, in company with Seijiro Yazawa. He
sion a Peruvian Military Service carnet, or
engaged in the fishing business in the Caribbean
identification card, giving him a Christian name
sea with Yazawa and his name appeared on the map
in place of his Japanese name. His suitease was
of the Gran Sabana Area found in Yazawa's
believed to contain several thousand Venezuelan
desk. Watay visited the Japanese Minister
Bolivares. on August 28, 1943, he was ordered
prior to his departure from Venezuela, and it is
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 79
believed that the Venezuelan Government con-
However, during that time they were in contact
siders him the most dangerous Japanese in the
with the Spanish Legation and were given all
country at the present time. It is stated he
the aid they needed. On May 1, 1942, the Lega-
has tnree sons serving in the Japanese Army.
tion staff and three prominent Japanese mer-
He is currently operating a small grocery store
clhants were allowed to leave the country for
in Caracas, and apparently his only caller is
repatriation to Japan.
Yuzo Yonekura.
The Legation staff consisted of Yosoe
Ongimi, Charge d'Affaires; Saburo Ohmura, Chan-
cellor of the Legation; Hiroshi Teraoka and
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
Shigeyuki Ozawa, Clerks; and Yoshihei Yamashita,
Steward. The merchants who were permitted to
There are no interned or contined Japanese
leave were Seiichi Ametani, Fuginaka Susuma,
in Venezuela. A11 residing in the country enjoy
and Takay Sigeji.
liberty, work freely, and do not leck the neces-
The Japanese repatriates sailed from Buena-
sities of life. Ine Venezuelan Government main-
Vontura, Colombia, on the SS. "Acadia." On
tains the Japanese colony in a quiet and orderly
leaving Venezuela, the Charge d'Affaires deliv-
monner.
ered to the Spanish Minister $13,800 in bills
The news of the stete of war, first between
belonging to the Japanese Government, and
the Inited States and Japan, und a little later
$23,378 belonging to a Japanese bank. This
with Germany and Itniy, aI though expected, was
money was to be used to help defray the expenses
the subjeet of much comment by ott iei a ls of
of the Spanish Government in representing the
the Venezue lan Government. 1: resnlted in the
Japanese interests.
President's making publie deelarations on Decem-
ber 19. 1911, t the etfet tnt \onezue1a.
tai thtul to the commi tments i: nad made, was
ECUADOR
cooperiting without reservation of any kind witn
the Inited states; that its Government would not
consent to the use of Venezuelan territory as a
base for attack agninst the great Democraey of
The North. The Mini tr  f Forrign telat tons
EACKGROUND
outlined the position or Venezuela more learly
and invoked the fourterntn declaration of the
Population and Location
Conferenee of Havana. ile ealled attention to
the fact that totalitirian dectrines constitute
Feuador has not known extensive Japanese
a danger to all the Ameriean demoeracies.
population or activities. Available evidence
on December 11, 1911, the Venezuelan Govern-
indicates that the total Japanese population re-
ment issued a deeree pronititing the transfer of
siding in kcuador never amoun ted to more than
money to any Axis nation or any country at war
twenty individuals. From the year 1938 to the
with the United States. The deeree turtheer pro-
present, it is reliable estimated that not over
vided that a permit had to be obtained before
two hundred Japanese traveled through Ecuador
anyone could send money from Venezuel: outside
or within the country. Most of these were in
the Western Hemisphere. on Deeember 16, 1911, a
Fcuador merely in transit.
deeree was issued al lowing the Venezuelan Govern-
In the early part of 1940 the Ecuadoran
ment to freeze the funds of anyone it desired.
Government negotiated a contract allowing fif-
Under this order the fnds of all Japanese were
tren Japanese families, not to exceed eighty
frozen. At the same time, this deeree requested
persons, to settle in Feuador for the express
commercial houses and industrial entities to
purpose of reviving the quinine industry. The
replace any employee whno was a eitizen of Ger-
many, Italy, or Japan. The deerees of December
11 and 16 also resul ted in the establishment of
the "interventor system" with respeet to the
finns of Axis nationals. Through these deerees,
all Japanese rirms were reouired to work under
Venezuelan supervision.
Venezuela did not actually break relations
with Japan until Deeember 31, 1911, at which
time relations were also severed with Italy and
Germany.
on January 10, 1312, a11 personnel of the
Japanese Legation in Caracas were confined to
their residences as reprisal for the detention
of the Venezuelan Consu1 Genera1 in Japan.
TYPICAL JAPANESE OF ECUADOR. MANY OF THE YOUNG-
Severai days later, the Spanish Legation took
ER JAPANESE SPEAK SPANISH AND RES EMBLE LOCAL
over the proteetion of Japanese interests in
ECUADORANS OF INDIAN DESCENT IN APPEARANCE.
Venezuela.
The five members of the Japanese Legation
THEY COULD TRAVEL IN UNDEVELOPED SECTIONS OF THE
staff were confine1 in their homes for 102 days.
COUNTRY WITH LITTLE POSSIBILITY OF DETECTION.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 80
Japanese were selected because they are gener-
the hands of the Japanese Embassy in Qui to up to
ally regarded as being most proficient in this
the time that the diplomats were repatriated in
field. Only sixteen Japanese came and they set-
April and May of 1942.
tled at Loja, a suitable area for the develop-
Among the Fcuadoran concems which have been
ment of this enterprise.
identified as having extensively dealt in Japa-
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
nese products is El Globo, an establishment with
headquarters in Quito and branches in Guayaquil
The Japanese residents of Ecuador have suc-
and Cuenca. This firm is owned by two brothers,
ceeded in establishing themselves on a middle
Francisco and Antonio Dalmau, both of whom are
social plane, This is due principally to the
Spanish nationals.
fact that they have achieved a fair degree of
A second is the Bazar Oriental, owned by the
economie success and therefore compel some
Alvarez Barba brothers, Cesar and Antonio. This
limited respect.
is a large mercantile establishment dealing ex-
The Japanese have not succeeded in gaining
tensively in household appliances and automobile
the confidence of the Ecnadoran people, and have
accessories. The Alvarez Barba brothers were
not achieved any political influence in Ecuador.
said to have the largest stock of Japanese mer-
Their prineipal connect ions were in quito, Guaya-
chandi se in qui to.
qui1 and Esmeraldas. They obtained some oiI con-
)ther Fcuadoran concerns specializing in
cessi ons in the vicini ty of Esmeraldas. It is
Japanese merchandise were the establishment of
Said llanna and the Feuador Trading Company, both
reported that this was accomplished by reason of
their Ecuadoran connections, namely, tustavo
of Guayaquil. Japanese merchandise, however,
Diez Delgado and Dr. R. Ramos, the Iat ter of
was generally available in the large majority of
whom acted as an attorney for the Japanese pe-
Fcuadoran shops due to the low cost and availa-
troleum interests.
bility prior to December 7, 1941.
The newspapers throughout Fenador have de-
It is known that the Japanese, especially
nounced the Japanese aggression, and "F1 Iele-
those of the Pacific Petroleum Company, were
grafo" of Guayaquil carried an editorial advo-
closely connected with the Sedta German Airline,
cating continental solidarity. It stated that
which served as their chief means of transporta-
the totalitarian nations des ired to destroy the
tion for materials and personnel.
United Sta tes in order to take possession of the
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
Lat in Ameri can nat ions and subjeet the citizens
of these countries to slavery. This edítoríal
After the majority of the Japanese had been
advocated that the Government of Feuador place
interned in Riobamba, one named Sengoro Takada
at the disposal of the United States its is-
remained in Guayaquil because of alleged sick-
lands, coasti ines, ports and aviation fields and
ness. He was reported to be a technician who
any other facilities necessary to the defense
was engaged by the Feuadoran Government to do
of the Inited States.
some work in connection with the growing of rice.
CCMMERCE
A few days after the attack on Pearl Harbor,
Sengoro Takada was heard to express the follow-
Japanese commerce in Feuador has not been
ing sentiments: lle asked how it could be possi-
and is not now important in the life of the
ble for Ecuador to declare war against Japan
country. Most of the Japanese goods which were
when the Japanese had already sunk eighty per
imported into Feuador were distributed by Feua-
cent of the American fleet. He went on to say
doran concerns and it is known that a commereial
that the dollar had dropped to twelve sucres
treaty formulated wi th Japan was never actually
because of the war and would devaluate further.
applied. It is believed locally that the treaty
Takada insisted that no more American ships
was not effeetive mainly because the dapanese
would be seen in Guayaquil because of Japanese
did not tulfill its provisions.
submarine activity. lle praised the valor of the
The prineipal Japanese organizations in
Japanese soldiers and their willingness to die
Feuador were as follows: The Pacific Petroleum
for their country. This was a fact, he con-
Company (Compania Minero Petrolera del Facifico,
tended, which could not be unders tood by the
S.A.), wi th oil concessions near Esmeraldas and
white men. These statements are typical of the
with offices at Quito and Fsmeraldas; a shirt
propaganda which had been spread by Japanese
factory and store belonging to Tadao Sato Ito at
exponents in Fcuador.
Guayaquil; and a quinine laboratory operated by
Dr. Toshitake Suzuki and his assistant, Fermin
The Japanese Charge d'Affaires in Quito,
Masaru Matukura, also at Guayaquil. The planta-
Kokutaro Nagumo, was even more successful in
tions supplying cascarilla for the laboratory
spreading the theory that Japan was invincible;
were situated in the provinces of El Oro, Azuay
that the defeat of the Allies was certain. His
and Loja in the southern part of Feuador border-
method wes to visit the Ministry of Foreign
ing on Peru.
Affairs early every morning, reporting with
The Japanese steamship company Kawasaki
names, dates and exact figures, fantastic
Kisen Kaisha furmished regular monthly steam-
stories of Japanese victories. He was relative-
ship service from Guayaquil to the Orient. Its
ly successful with his propaganda, for soon many
agents were Juan Xavier Marcos Aguirre and his
stories circulated through Quito of how Japan
father, Juan Franciseo Marcos, who operate as
had won great victories. Nagumo in addition to
the "Sociedad General."
being a diplomat was also a geologist and inter-
Commercial interests of Japan were mainly in
preter for the Pacific Petroleum Company.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.92)
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
Japanese geologists
surveyed an area near
here for an airfield.
QUITO
5
RioBamBa
MANTA
SALINAS
RELATIVE LOCATION OF THE
CANAL ZONE AND GALAPAGOS
ISLANDS TO ECUADOR
Key
CABAL
U. S. Air and Naval Base
2OHE
Possible Location of Axis
Submarine Bases
SEUTH
AMERICA
Pan American-Grace Air-
&0
ways Landing Field
GALAPAGOS
ISIAND
Lcador)
Oil Storage
Oil Field

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 82
Takahashi Hiroji and Tadao Nakamura were re-
amounts of money socially, and it was believed
ported to be officers in the Japanese Army at-
he used his position to secure infomation for
tached to the Engineering Corps. In Ecuador
Japan. He 1eft Ecuador late in 1941.
they were ostensibly employed by the Pacific Pe-
Dr. Toshitake Suzuki came to Ecuador as an
troleum Company at Esmeraldas. There were indi-
cations that these men made an exact and inten-
expert on cascarilla under contract with the
sive survey of Ecuador's northern coast during
Ecuadoran Government to establish a quinine labo-
the time of their employment. This survey pur-
ratory. He was known as a close friend of Tadao.
ported to include precise data concerning the
Sato Ito, wi ti whom he resided for a time in
Guayaquil. Suzuki achieved some prominence in
geographic situation, hydrography, possibilities
for landing airplanes and other material of
the Japanese colony in Ecuador. There are indi-
strategic military value. Following the comple-
cations that he had been active in Japanese in-
tion of this work they are said to have made a
telligence matters before coming to Ecuador.
complete scientific study of the geography and
By December, 1944, Fermin Masaru Matukura
topography of interior Ecuador between Tungu-
was commonly regarded as the only known Japanese
rahua and Carachi.
remaining in Ecuador. He entered Ecuador from
When Peru invaded Fcuador in 1941, Hiroji
Peru in June, 1940, to serve as expert in the
and Nakamura were arrested by the Fcuadoran Gov-
processing of quinine. He was active in operat-
ernment after having been detected making a sur-
ing the quinine laboratory in Guayaguil until
vey and taking extensive photographs of the
late 1912. At that time he was forced to leave
lands of the Chillos. when apprehended, they
the coastal region by order of the Ecuadoran
were in possession of photographic equipment,
Government, his funds were blocked and he was
altimeters, two cameras equipped with telephoto
confined to inland Maldonado, near the Colombian
lenses, other engineering apparatus, and exten-
border.
sive information relating to the topography and
Matukura engaged in the raising of hogs in
geography of the country. They were brought to
Maldonado. He was frequently reported as carry-
Qui to and imprisoned; however, following inter-
ing on undetermined activities believed to be
vention by the Minister of Foreign Relations,
smuggling restricted materials within the border
they were released and their eguipment returned
towns of southern Colombia.
to them. Nakamira, by virtue of his diplomatic
Due to the difficulty of closely controlling
passport, was able to travel to Colombia, and
the activities of Matukura because of the lack
Hiroji upon his release retumed to Riobamba,
of police enforcement in the Maldonado region,
where he remained until he was deported on the
he was being considered for deportation from
SS "Ftolin" April 7, 1942.
Ecuador and internment in the United States.
Japanese-Nazi Collaboration
Japanese-Ecuadoran Cooperation
Heinrich Blomken, kurt Grosse and several
other Naz is were occastonally seen leaving the
An hcuadoran named Pedro V. Miller has been
factory of Tadao Sato in Guayaquil, after spend-
the Honorary Japanese Consul in Guayaquil for
ing a good part of the day there. Blomken had
many years. He held this post because of his
long been known as one of the Nazi leaders in
business connect ions with Japan.
GuayaquiI, and Grosse was a German agent of low
Gustavo Diez Delgado, who was a cashier at
rank.
the Banco Central del Fcuador, resigned his posi-
Another indication of JapaneseNazi collabo-
tion to become the manager of the Facific Petro-
ration is the fact that the suspected German
leum Company, which serves Japanese interests.
agent, Dr. Franz Spillman, was ployed by the
Ihe attomey previously mentioned, R. Ramos,
Pacific Fetroleum Company, and directed the
played a prominent part in obtaining the oil con-
activities of Japanese geologists.
cessions for the Japanese in the Facific Petrole-
Prominent Leaders
um Company, and af'terward acted as attorney for
this company.
The more prominent Japanese in Ecuador were
Juan Xavier Marcos and Juan Francisco Marcos,
the follow ing:
owners of Sociedad General, are still remembered
Tadao Sato Ito, who resided in Ecuador a con-
for their close connection wi th Japanese ship-
siderable period, was regarded as being thorough-
ping and commerce.
ly acquainted with the country, especially the
Luis Martinez Delgado, a Colombian attorney,
coastal regions. It was stated that he was a
now in Colombia, is a relative of Gustavo Diez
Captain in the Japanese Army. It was noted by
Delgado. He was formerly general manager of the
the Ecuadoran port and immigration authorities
Pacific Petroleum Company.
that most of the Japanese who came to kcuador
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
either as merchants, industrial technicians,
banking agents or as tourists, gave Sato as a
Shortly after December 7, 1941, the Icuador-
reference.
an Government took measures to control the move-
Tadao Nakamura is considered to be the found-
ments of Japanese within the country, expelling
er of the Pacific Petroleum Company. He was
them from the coastal region and especially from
thought to be extremely intelligent and was able
the Santa Flena Peninsula to the interior. The
to speak Spanish, French and English. He resid-
Government then decided to concentrate them in
ed in Quito at the Hotel Majestic, which was pat-
the city of Riobamba, which is approximately
ronized by many Japanese. Nakamura spent large
half-way between Guayaquil and Quito.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 83
On December 12, 1941, the Ecuadoran Govern-
known to have passed into the hands of Ecuadoran
ment issued a decree ordering all Japanese
nationals, or enterprises belonging to citisens
citizens to proceed by Dacember 20 to Riobamba
of the Allied Nations. An example of this is
where they would be interned.
the Pacific Petroleum Company. Part of this
The Japanese nationals interned in Riobamba
property passed to the International Petroloum
lived at the Villa Lolita. Their usual proce-
Company, a Canadian enterprise, and part to the
dure was to appear at police headquarters indi-
California-Ecuador Petroloum Company, an affili-
vidually each morming at ten o'clock and sign
ate of the Standard Oil Company. The hirt
the attendance form. They would return at three
factory that belonged to Tadao Bato Ito was
o'clock to repeat the process and onco again be-
awarded by the courts to N. Aviles Tamarig, who
fore retiring. Ihey were not allowed to leave
was a relative by marriage of ex-President
the city. If attempts were made to leave they
Carlos Arroyo del Rio.
were stopped by the officials. They were al-
As previously mentioned, the Houadoran Gov-
lowed complete freedom of movement within the
ernmenthad negotiated wi th Dr. Toshitake Suguki,
city. No suspicious activitios were detected
for the extraction of quinine from camcarilla.
although a few of the interned Japanese sent and
After the United States entered the war with
received a large amount of mail. They were
Japan, the contract was revoked and the proper-
closely observed and appeared not to have con-
ties of Dr. Suzuki passed to the Department of
tact with the natives. The Japanese remained in
Agriculture of the kcuadoran Government.
Riobamba intil they were deported.
At this time, the government also decreed
During April and May, 1942, on the vessels
that no Ecuadoran Consul grant visas to any
Acadia and Etolin, twenty-four Japanese were re-
Japanese for travel to Ecuador. This order was
patriated, this figure including members of the
s trengthened by the provisions of the Rio de
diplomatic corps and their families. It was
Janeiro Treaty of 1942, and is still in effect.
alleged that during this repatriation a few
In view of the deportation action taken by
Japanese fled to the remote sections of Ecuador
the Ecuadoran Government against the Japanese
and that some of these later left the country.
and the control maintained over the few remain-
At the time of the repatriation, the prop-
ing, it does not appear that they constitute a
erties of the Japanese were blocked and some are
problem of any kind at this time.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 84
Chapter 9
PERU AND BOLIVIA
PERU
BACKGROUND
8, 290 Nisei or second-generation Japanese of
Peruvian citizenship. Japanese official sources
Population
put the population in round figures at 20,000
The Japanese colony is the largest foreign
Japanese and 10,000 Nisei.
element in Peru. According to the 194o census
Approximately ten per cent of the Japanese
have 1eft Peru since 1940.
there were 17,598 Japanese and an estimated
IMMIGRATION STATISTICS
From 1899-1920
Year
Arrivals
Year
Arrivals
1899
790
1915
1,080
1903
981
1916
1,003
1900
774
1917
1,455
1907
203
1918
1,359
1908
1,714
1919
1,390
1909
715
1920
657
1910
439
1921
623
1911
334
1922
1912
623
1923
1913
1,519
1924
125
1914
1,078
1925
1,056
Sources: Japanese Central Society's publication Kaishi;
Peruvian statistics.
ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES OF JAPANESE CITIZENS
Origins
(Peruvian statistics)
Forty to fifty per cent of the Japanese in
Peru are from Okinawa Provinee, wnicn comprises
Year
Arrivals
Departures
the islands lying between the Japanese main
islands and Formosa. The Okinawans proved
1926
1,362
410
particularly suited for work on sugar planta-
1927
1,036
256
tions. Okinawans are regarded as inferior by
1928
1,359
643
the Japanese of Japan proper, and they
1334
040
976
have seldom occupied positions of importance
1935
608
1,111
in the colony, an exception being Sentei Yagi,
1930
681
801
an Okinawan who was President of the Japanese
1937
294
940
Central Society in 1928. Strained relations
1938
292
032
between the two elements culminated in trouble
1939
243
058
between the okinawan organizations and the
Japanese Central Society in 1934. This dispute
JAPANESE ARRIVALS AND DEPARTURES
was not resolved until 1936.
PERU
Immigration
Peru was the first Latin American country
Year
Arrivals
Departures
to make a treaty with Japan. Though this trea-
1933 (May 1-Dec. 31)..
195
432
ty, signed August 21, 1873, did not pertain to
immigration, Peru entered into it with that end
1934.
640
976
in view, for it was badly in need of farm labor.
1935
608
1,111
It was not, however, until after the arrival of
1936
081
801
the first Japanese Minister to Peru, Yoshifumi
1937
294
940
Murota, in 1898, that an agreement was reached
1938
292
692
1939 (Jan. 1-Dec. 8).....
243
658
with the Japanese to send laborers to work on
the sugar plantations. The first shipload
arrived February 27, 1899, and was followed by
Source: Japanese Foreign Office
others in 1903 and 1906.
Thereafter the flow
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.98)
REPUBLIC OF PERU
AREA COMPARISON
MAP OF PERU IM-
POSED ON 5 OF OUR
WESTERN STATES IS
WASH
SIMILAR IN SIZE
IDAHO
CRE
CALIS
TOTAL AREA OF IDAHO,
NEV
CALIFORNIA, OREGON,
WASHINGTON, AND
NEVADA
518,711 SQ. MILES
TOTAL
AREA OF PERI
532.000
SQ. MILES
APPROXIMATI
Peru is situated on the Pacific Coast of
South America and extends in a general
south-casterly direction, with a seacoast
of more than 1,400 miles. Its area is
estimated at 532,000 square miles, an ap-
proximate figure, however, since much dis-
puted territory is oxcupied by neighboring
states, with boundaries sull undetermined.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 86
of Japanese into Peru, interrupted only between
as being truly loyal to Peru. An example of
1922 and 1924 by Peru's abrogation of its trea-
the attitude of the Nisei is to be found in the
ty of commerce and navigation, continued until
1942 New Year's Day greeting of Victor Tateishi,
May 15, 1937, when Peru adopted immigration
a Nisei who was, until his deportation January
laws, which though theoretically non-discrimina-
18, 1y44, in charge of Japanese matters in the
tory, were intended to prevent further Japanese
Spanish Embassy:
migration. Even after ly37, Japanese continued
"Let us be grateful for living in this
to come to Peru. However, by 1940 the number
sacred age!
of Japanese returning to Japan exceeded the
"1942 will be a brilliant new spring.
number of arrivals, due in part to restrictions
To all of us Peruvians of Jepanese ancestry the
adopted April 8, 1932, upon 1and ownership and
clarion of this new age rings loud and clear.
employment of foreign nationals. lhese restrice
"Now is the time! we must be strong
tions principally affected the Japanese because
and must carry out our destiny with all our
of their economic position and tie size of their
might."
colony.
on the other hand, the Nisei are not unan-
Location
imous in this view. une Japanese stated, "If
unfortunately Peru and Japan should be forced
The greatest concentration of Japanese is
to war, then Peruvians of Japanese race should
in the Lime-callno aree, either within the city
fight as Peruvian soldiers against the Japanese
limits or on farms surrounding the cities. It
forces." Such sentiments can be attributed,
1s estimated that twenty thousand Japanese and
however, largely to those of Ukinawan origin
Nisei live in this area. According to the 1940
who least love the Motherland.
census, ninety per cent of all Japanese were
The Japanese did not attend the Peruvian
living in the coastal provinces. There were
schools but had their own educational system
large colonies in Huaral, Huacho, Trujillo,
consisting of twenty-seven schools with an
Chiclayo, Chimbote, Canete, Chincha, Pisco and
enrollment of four thousand students. These
I ca. During 1942 most of the Japanese were
schools were administered by the Peru Kyoiku
moved out of the port cities with the exception
Renmai Kai (Peru Educational Federation) and
of Callao, which depends upon them for its
the Japanese Central Society. They were sub-
poultry and green vegetables.
sidized by the Japanese Government, which pre
In the mountains, efforts were made at
scribed the curriculum and furnished many of
colonization at Tingo Maria and Puniza, where
cuinine, timber and coffee were exploited.
The distribution of Japanese aliens by
provinces is siown in the 1s40 census as fol-
lows:
1.imn
13,557
Cuzco
19
(月1180
1,996
Cajemarca
16
Junin
509
Ayacucho
15
La Libertad
441
Puno
12
I ca
240
Tacna
3
Piura
231
San Martin
7
Aneash
17
Huencavelica
5
Lambayeque
181
Monuegua
2
Arequipa
53
Apurimac
1
Madre de Dios
37
Tumbes
Loreto
35
Amazonas
Huanueo
25
To tal
17,598
SOCIAL PENETRATION
The Japanese have made no real effort to
become a part of Peruvian life. Instead they
have remained aloof, forming a conesive body
which has become Peru's greatest race problem.
Importer for work on the plantations, the
Japanese have created enmity and ill will
through their migration to the cities in large
numbers where they have monopolized certain
JAPANESE SCHOOL, CHANCAY, PERU
small trades. Few of them have been natural-
the teachers. Tne Japanese did not abide by
ized and these, in the møjority of cases, only
the restrictions laid down by the Peruvian
for convenience. There is little indication
Government relative to the number of hours of
that any of the Japanese have regarded Peru-
instruction in a foreign language and the per-
vian citizenship as demanding loyalty to their
centage of foreign teachers. These schools
adopted country. There hes been practically
were closed by the Peruvian Government after the
no intermarriage with native Peruvians.
rup ture of relations. By 1913 many of their
The second-generation Japanese, who are
properties had been turned over to the Spanish
Peruvian citizens by birth, cannot be regarded
Embassy for administration. Though instruction
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
REPUBLIC OF PERU
CONCENTRATION OF ADULT JAPANESE
RESIDENTS BY DEPARTMENTS
Adult Japanese Residents
EACH SYMBOL REPRESENTS 100 JAPANESE
TOTAL
17,598
JAPANESE RESIDENTS
INCLUDING CHILDREN
UNOFFICIAL
ANAZORAS
ESTIMATES
LABBATEOUL
(Reliable Sources)
60,000
OFFICIAL
1940
CENSUS
25,888
CALLAG
MAURE DE DIOS
BDABCAVELICA
ADULT JAPANESE RESIDENTS
APURIMAC
OF PERU BY DEPARTMENTS
DEFARTMENT
MUMBER
AMAZONAS
ANCASH
201
AFLR MAC
ARLQUIPA
AYACUCHO
CAIAMANCA
CALLAU
cusco
HUANCAVELICA
HUANUCO
KCA
JUNIN
509
LA LIBERTAD
LAMBAYLQUE
181
LIMA
LORETO
MADRI DE D:OS
MOQUEGUA
PIURA
PUNO
SAN MARTIN
TACNA
TUMBLS
TOTAL
17.598
FIGURES DO NOT INCLUDE B1.290
CHIL DREN OF JAPANESE

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 88
in Japanese had been forbidden, numerous in-
superstitious Japanese as the wrathful vengeance
stances of violation of this edict have been
of their gods.
reported. Julio Hoshi, Peruvian-born son of
After the riot, relations improved due to
the former head of Escuela Qamudio, was reported
the economic persuasion of heavy Japanese war
in the middle of 1944 to be managing the school
purchases and the attitude of President Manuel
in fact, though ostensibly there is a Peruvian
Prado, who denied the rumors of fifth-column
in charge and instruction in Japanese is said
activities. Even after relations were broken
to continue.
wi th Japen, President Prado was most cautious
Attempts, however, have been made by the
in making or allowing to be made inflammatory
Japanese to ingratiate themselves with the
comments about the local Japanese.
Peruvians through propaganda, the solicitation
of the suppcrt and influence of influential
POLITICAL PENETRATION
Peruvians, and gifts.
A theo ry upon which the Japanese tried to
It cannot be said that there has been any
capitalize is that the Incas were of Japanese
political infiltration of Japanese in Peru.
origin; that Manco Capac, the founder of the
They have held no posi tions of prominence in
Inca dynasty, was Japanese. In 1922, the Japa-
Peruvian politics. The Japanese Government has
nese presented a statue of Manco Capac to Peru.
sent no instructive or advisory missions to Peru.
On Lima's four hundredth anniversary in 1937,
The Japanese Legation was closed January 24,
the Japanese presented a swimming pool to the
1912, when Peru, the first of the Latin-American
city valued at $12,000.
countries to do so, broke relations with the
Some Japanese have accepted the Catholic
Axis. The diplomatic officials were repatriated
religion and donated liberally to religious
organizations and charity. Luis T. Ishikawa,
aboard the SS "Acadia" April 14, 1942. Since
the most prominent Japanese businessman in
then, Japanese matters have been handled by the
Ayacucho, contributed money to the Eucharistic
Spanish Embassy. Count Mariano Bureta is
Congress held in that city. Many Japanese who
charged with administering the property of the
have embraced Catholicism have taken advantage
Japanese Government and of deported Japanese,
of this opportunity to persuade prominent Peru-
providing pensions for the needy, transmitting
vians to act as godparents of their children.
money to detainees, intervening on behalf of the
The wife of Manuel Prado, President of Peru, has
Japanese in altercations with the Peruvian
in this manner become the patron of a few Japa-
Government, and handling voluntary deportations.
nese including Saburo Suzuki and Seijiro Tabata,
In September of 1943, he stated that the Embassy
who through her influence were able to avoid
was paying out $7, 500 monthly to Japanese
deportation.
nationals; and Ambassador Pablo de Churruca has
The Asociacion Cul tural Peruano-Japonesa was
said that there are 2,000 Japanese in Peru
founded September 11, 1937, wi th the backing of
wi thout other means of support.
Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai (Society for Internation-
Count Bureta's original assistants, Victor
al Cul tural Relations) of Tokyo. Among its
Tateishi and Kaneichi Alfonso Yokota, were
officers appeared the names of prominent Peru-
deported by the Peruvian Government early in
vians. I ts program called for exchange students
1944. Mrs. Chieko Nishino had been denounced
and professors, lectures, exchange of films and
to the Spanish Embassy by Tateishi and Yokota
books, and encouragement of visits of prominent
and forced to sail with a group of volunteer
men in all fields. I ts achievements are not
deportees after having attempted to commit
thought to have been great.
suicide. On sailing Mrs. Nishino declared these
Peruvians in general do not like the Japa-
two were spies. This abuse of authority, and
nese and do not accept them. The nationalistic
other constant pro-Japanese activities convinced
Benavides regime starting in L932 passed a num-
the Peruvian authorities that Tateishi's pres-
ber of restrictions against Japanese trade, com-
ence in that country constituted a danger. He
merce, employment and immigration. In 1937 for
was arrested January 18, 1944, and deported on
three months there appeared a series of articles
the SS "Madison" that afternoon.
in the Lima newspaper "La Prensa" entitled "La
Yokota is said to have held and attended
Infiltracion Japonesa." In 1939 an attempt on
Japanese meetings, received Japanese propaganda
the part of the Japanese to smuggle Julio
from Argentina and acted as adviser to the
Furuya, a naturalized Peruvian, out of Peru to
Japanese colony. He was deported March 1.
Japan for disciplinary action was pointed out
Thereafter, the Spanish Ambassador, with the
as an illustration of Japanese disdain for the
consent of the Peruvian Government, employed
sovereignty of Peru. Rumors of fifth-coluan
Luis Ukamoto, also known as Masuru Okamoto, to
activities and hidden caches of arms and ammu-
replace Tateishi. Okamoto is a Nisei, an
nition were common in the first part of 1940.
intimate friend of Tateishi and a member of
All these hostile feelings culminated on May 13,
Shoten Renmai Kai (The Japanese Youth Federa-
1940, in an an ti-Japanese riot in Lima causing
tion). His assistant is Yoshiyuki Tamura, a
destruction to Japanese property which Peru
Japanese national who arrived in Peru in 1938
later agreed to indemnify to the extent of
at the age of 31, claiming tc be a newspaperman.
$200,000. The Japanese Minister reported that
the damage was three times this figure. This
Japanese Societies
claim can never be accurately determined, for
The activi ties of the whole Japanese colony
Lima and Callao were shaken wi th a disastrous
were centered in the Japanese Central Society.
earthquake on May 24, 1940, causing much addi-
This organization was founded in 1917 by a
tional damage. This earthquake was regarded by
group of prominent Japanese headed by Ichitaro
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.98)
Pagé 89
演
如令光信君
KAZUKI TATEISHI, FORMERLY INTERPRETER AT SPANISH EMBASSY, DELIVERING ADDRESS BEFORE JAPANESE
MEETING.
Morimoto. Its presidents from 1935 through 1939
were as follows: Masayoshi Sato, Rinuemon
Takahashi, Tatsujiro Kuro tobi, Teijiro Yumoto
and Mo tozo Nonomiya.
An idea of the scope of the Society's
activities may be gained from a report pub-
1isted in Apri1, 1939, listing the main accom-
plishments. They were: a welcome meeting for a
visiting training squadron, the erection of the
statue to Manco Capac in 1922, the sending of
relief to the sufferers in the Tokyo earthquake
of 1943, the organization of the Colonization
Union of Peru, the Japan-Peru track meet, the
presentation of a swimming pool to Lima, the
formation of a Federation of Japanese Associa-
tions in Peru, aid in bringing envoys of Japa-
nese cul ture and education to Peru, the spread-
ing of pamphlets justifying Japan's action in
Manchuria in 1931, a contribution of $500 for
the Japanese Aeronautical Society, the erection
of a bronze statue to the three human bombs of
the Battle of Shanghai in 1932, and the setting
up of Japanese Iangunge schools.
The Japanese Central Society worked closely
with the Japanese Legation and can be regarded
as having had official government status.
The Federation of Japanese Associations was
formed in 1936 as a result of a mass meeting of
4,000 called by the Japanese Central Society to
JAPANESE LEGATION, LIMA, PERU. CLOSED JANUARY
work out a policy in the face of growing Peru-
24,1942.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 90
vian antagonism. It brought together thirty-
in the Spanish Embassy, is regarded to have been
seven Japanese organizations of all types,
the leader of the group.
including colonial societies, provincial organi-
The Black Dragon Society has never had a
zations, trade and professional associations,
formal organization in Peru and it is not known
and social clubs. In 1941 the President of the
that its members have been active in this
Federation was also the President of the Central
country. However, it has been reported that the
Society. In this manner the central Society was
brothers Okada, Moriji, Carlos and Francisco,
able to strengthen its position. The membership
who reside in Lima, have as their marital pa-
in the Central society in 1938 was about 3,000,
tron Mitsuru Toyama, a founder of the Society
while the Federation had a membership of 7,000.
in Japan.
The principal trade associations were:
There have been no reports of the existence
Asociacion Japonesa de Comercio y Industrias del
of the Nippon Gawa in Peru.
Peru, Association of Japanese Importers in Peru,
COMMERCE
Association of Japanese Merchants in Peru, and
the Japanese Wholesalers Union.
It is estimated that before the war Japa-
The most important social club was the Third
nese business establishments in Peru had a gross
Sunday Club, founded in 1926. The members of
capital of one and one-half million dollars and
this club were leaders in the Japanese colony,
gross yearly sales of between four and five
and most of them served at one time or another
million dollars.
as President of the Central Society, They
Before 1940, Japan received less then eight
dictated the policies of the colony and acted
per cent of Peru's total exports. At no time
as advisers. Almost without exception, they
did Peru's imports from Japan exceed six per
have been deported from Peru.
cent of total imports. Normal trade in the last
The Shoten Renmai Ka1 or Japanese Youth
ten years ranged between one and three million
Pederation is reported to be active today. It
dollars a year. In Peruvian exports and imports,
has been alleged that it is utilized to protect
Japan was fourth among the nations, its princi-
the properties of Japanese, since many of its
pal competitors being the United States, Great
members are Peruvian born and not subject to
Britain and Germany. Peru's main imports from
the restrictions imposed upon their parents.
Japan were textiles and cheap mechanical goods
The deported Victor Tateishi, formerly assistant
and its exports, in order of importance, cotton,
THIS GROUP OF JAPANESE WORKED WITH YASUIGHI WATANO IN THE EFFORT ON THE PART OF THE PACIFIC TRADING
COMPANY OF JAPAN TO PURCHASE OIL FIELDS IN NORTHERN PERU DURING 1936 AND 1937. WHEN THE PROJECT
FAILED IN I937, WATANO AND NISHIMURA RETURNED TO JAPAN. TAKENAKA, FUDITA, BARTHELMES AND OASHI
THEREUPON ORGANIZED THE SOCIEDAD ANONIMA TAIBO, AGENCY FOR THE PACIFIC TRADING COMPANY, WHICH LATER
WAS USED AS A COVER FOR JAPANESE ESPIONAGE ACTIVITY. STANDING, LEFT TO RIGHT: BUNJI OASHI AND
JUAN DOMINGO BARTHELMES ACEVEDO. SEATED, LEFT TO RIGHT: TATEO MATSUSHIMA, KATSUYOSHI FUJITA,
SHORTARO NISHIMURA, JUNJI SUZUKI AND IWAU TAKENAKA.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 166 === (confidence 1.00)
Page 91
COMMERCE
Total foreign ships
Japanese ships
Japanese ships
entering Peruvian
entering Peruvian
as percentage
ports
ports
of total
Tonnage
Tonnage
Tonnage
Year
Number
(000)
Number
(000)
Number
(000)
1937
4,401
13,973.1
i78
845.9
4.0
6.1
1938
4,216
13,549.5
127
643.6
3.0
4.7
1939
3,984
12,597.3
199
998.8
5.0
7.9
1940
2,654
7,737.1
152
740.2
5.7
9.6
TRADE OF PERU WITH JAPAN
Per cent of
Per cent of
Year
Imports
Total Imports
Exports
Total Exports
1918
2,730,350
2.8
692,640
0.3
1921
2,784,903
1.7
1,154,560
0.7
1925
1,891,050
1.0
608,830
0.3
1928
2,006,010
1.2
1,458,600
0.5
1931
1,654,306
1.6
24,500
1932
1,259,718
1.6
37,400
1933
5,277,369
4.9
999,190
0.4
1934
10,225,602
6.0
5,084,536
1.7
1935
9,392,420
5.2
8,890,230
2.9
1936
7,874,121
3.9
14,060,244
4.2
1937
8,105,241
3.4
3,887,083
1.1
1938
8,683,775
3.3
1,952,374
0.6
1939
8,015,479
3.1
9,110,727
2.4
1940
18,570,071
5.8
31,613,132
7.8
1941
15,903,803
4.4
82,239,883
16.6
BANKING TRANSACTIONS IN PERU
Japanese yen
Hongkong dollars
Excess of
Excess of
Year
Bought
Sold
sales
Bought
Sold
sales
1936
129.4
4,710.4
4,581.0
36.1
4,658.8
4,622.7
1937
181.5
4,470.6
4,289.0
131.2
4,630.2
4,499.0
1938
163.0
2,366.6
2,803.6
242.4
2,519.2
2,276.8
1939
121.3
2,260.3
2,139.0
102.0
2,995.5
2,893.5
1940
1,033.4
2,950.0
1,916.6
1,859.1.
4,484.0
2,624.9
TRADE BETWEEN JAPAN AND PERU
Average
Exports from
Imports from
exchange
Peru to Japan
Japan to Peru
for one
Japanese
Peruvian
Japanese
Peruvian
yen
Year
Statistics
Statistics
Statistics
Statistics
1.31
1934
2,388.1
5,084.5
9,011.4
10,225.6
1.21
1935
13,812.1
8,890.2
8,422.8
9,392.4
1.17
1936
15,210.0
14,060.2
7,202.5
7,874.1
1.15
1937
7,218.5
3,887.1
7,295.6
8,105.2
1.27
1938
2,508.2
1,952.4
7,315.2
8,283.8
1.43
1939
9,947.1
9,110.7
8,700.1
8,016.5
★
JAPANESE
MONOGRAPH.LATIN
AMERICA

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 92
alpaca wool, and minerals including copper,
in Tingo Maria.' This company is not known to
tungsten, petroleum, lead, molybdenum, antimony,
have a Japanese parent firm.
and vanadium.
Hoshi Pharmaceutical Company of Tokyo was
The years 1940 and 1941 were marked with
founded by Hajime Hoshi, member of the Japanese
unusually heavy purchases by Japen in prepara-
Diet. In 1916 it acouired vast tracts of land
tion for war. These purchases amounted to five
in the Peruvian interior for colonization pur-
million dollars the first year and over twelve
poses and the production of quinine. In 1936,
million dollars the second, placing Japan second
on charges of usurpation of more than five
only to the United States in 1941 in the Peru-
million dollars worth of land, its titles were
vian export market.
nullified, but no decision has been rendered by
The principal Japanese commercial firms in
the courts as to the validity of the cancela-
Lime were the following:
tion.
Peru Menka Kabushiki Kaisha, an affiliate
None of the above firms are conducting
of Kaigi Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha and Nippon Menka
business activities in Peru at the present time.
Kabushiki Kaisha of Japan, was an export-import
Practically all of their assets have been liqui-
house, founded in 1926, with investments of over
dated and the funds frozen by the Peruvian
$150,000. it dealt primarily in cotton, but
Government.
also included other products sucn as copper. It
All trade with Japan ceased before January
invested large sums in the mining properties of
21, 1942, when Peru broke diplomatic relations.
Sindicato Explotador de Sayapullo, Ltda., a
Restrictions imposed on Japanese business have
Peruvian corporation, which in 1942 purchased
closed everything except the small cafes, baker
Peru stenka's instal lat ions and eouipment.
ies, bazaars and barber shops. Tenant farmers
Southern Cotton Company, S. A., was a sub-
have been forced to give up their lands or
sidiary of Mitsui, organized in 1a40 with a
resort to subterfuge transfers. Throughout the
capital of $16, o00 as an export-import house.
first six months of 1y44, reports became more
This company dealt in Peruvian raw cotton and
and more frequent of Japanese going east into
Japanese cotton textiles.
the jungle and gathering rubber for a liveli-
Sociedad Anonima "Taibo" was organized in
hood, or to the plantations to work as common
1938 as a subsidiary of the Pacific Trading
laborers.
Company, Ltd. of Japan. It did a volume of
Occupations
export-impori bus iness out of a 1l proport ion t
its capitalization of $1, Goo. It was reported
The Japanese were brought to Peru as farm
to be closely connected with the Japanese Govern-
laborers, but migrated in large numbers to the
ment.
city. )f 8, 4D0 Japanese listed by the Departa-
Sociedad Agricola "Retes," Ltda. was organ-
mento de Nacionalizacion, Extranjeria y Inm-
1zed in 1y27 with a paid-up capital of $47, 00 0.
gracion as gainfully employed in 1y41, only
"Retes" was engaged in the growing of cotton and
1, 700 appeared as farmers. At the present time
also exported some metals to Japan. It is not
they have been reduced to the position of farm
known to have had any parent company.
hands through war measures adopted by the Peru-
Negociacion Agricola N. Ukada was a local
vian Goveriment. The Japanese farmers are en-
firm founded by Nikumatsu Okada. Okada was
gaged most actively in the raising of cotton.
known as the Japanese Cotton King and had been
In 193y, twelve and one-half per cent of Peru's
decorated by the Japanese Fmperor. He operated
total production was grown by them. As pre-
six cotton plantations in the Chancay Valley
viously indicated four Japanese companies fig-
and his holdings were estimated to be approx-
ured largely in the cotton business. They were
imately a million dollars.
"Negociacion Agricola N. Okada," "Scciedad
Nonomiya Shoten, S.A., a drug company, was
Agricola 'Retes,'" "Peru Menka Kabushiki
established in 1917 and had a paid-up capital
Kaisha," and the Southem Cotton Company. Their
in 1939 of about $39, 000. It had exclusive
cotton plantations were centered in the Chancay
representations for various Japanese products
Valley about fifty miles north of Lima.
and was interested in the production of quinine
Many Japanese who left the farms became
small merchants. They dominated the dry goods,
small cafe, bakery and barbering businesses,
catering to the working class with cheap goods
and services. They operated numerous small
hotels of bad reputation, machine shops, flor-
ist and plumbing establishments. A few rose to
positions of commercial prominence. Matagoro
Kawai had a rubber goods factory valued at more
than $100,000. Y. S. Ychikawa owned a hat
factory. Matsubayasi and Ykeda Vehicle Body
Construction Company built the bodies of many
of the busses in operation in Lima. Stockings
were made in the Japanese-owned "Fabrica Nacio-
nal de Medias 'El Inca.'"
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
JAPANESE SHIP LOADING COPPER IN OCTOBER, I941,
IN CALLAO, PERU.
Japanese military and naval officers were
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH.LATINAMERICA

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.93)
REPUBLIC OF PERU
OCCUPATIONS OF JAPANESE RESIDENTS
(FIGURES INDICATE NUMBER ACTIVELY ENGAGED)
Agriculture
Cattle Raising, Forestry, Fishing
Mining and Similar
and Hunting
Exploiting Industries
Cincles redicate
seographical ds
Inbution by de
partments
Circles indicate
Circies indicate
porments
reographucal drs
Inbution by de
partments
peographical ds
tribution by de
C
STALE
31111
2,467
211
25
00011
Processing
Building Construction
Transportation and
and Repair
Communication
Circles indicate
geographical dis
tubution by de
pertments
Circies indicate
Circles indicate
geographicai des
geogn? zhucal des
tribution by de
tribution by de
partments
pertments
SCALE
SEALL
SEALE
1,574
E
8
293
(CONTINUED ON FOLLOWING CHART)

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.92)
Commerce, Credit and
Public Administration and
Independent Professions
Insurance
Other Services of General
and Personal Services
Interest
Cirtles indicate
Circles indicate
geographical des
Reographucal On
tribution by de
tribution by de
pertments
partments
SHALL
3,675
176
2,838
Other Economic Branches
Total Population
Total Population
Unclassified
Economically Active
Economically Inactive
Circles indrcate
geographcal os
(roles indicate
(Without Remunerative Occupations)
tmibution by de
partets
peographucal dis.
tribution by de
Circles indicate
partments
geographicai des
tribution by de
partments
SEALL
SCALE
111
1C011
330
11,607
IH
5,991
231
111
TOTAL ADULT JAPANESE RESIDENTS- 17,598
Men 11,745
Women 5,853

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 95
COOPERA EFICIENTEMENTE AL PROGRESO NACIONAL LA COLON
Labrica
Sunbreru
WA
Tábrica deArlicul
DOUBLE PAGE DISPLAY IN SPECIAL EDITION OF PERU JIHO COMMEMORATING PERUVIAN NATIONAL HOLIDAY, JULY
28, I939. PHOTOGRAPHS SHOW THREE INDUSTRIES OF WHICH JAPANESE HAVE BEEN ESPECIALLY PROUD, YOHIKAWA
HAT FACTORY, MATSUBAYASI & YKEDA VEHICLE BODY CONSTRUCTION COMPANY, AND M. KAWAI & BROTHERS'
FACTORY FOR MANUFACTURING RUBBER ARTICLES.
unusually active in 1941. The Peruvian Lega-
obliterated by the Japanese Fleet and Air Corps
tion in Tokyo issued forty-seven diplomatic
unless Peru remained neutral.
passports that year, fifteen of which were for
In spite of these efforts and threats
army and navy officers, and many others for
there has been no reliable indication that
persons with ambiguous titles. In May Kiyoshi
there was a Japanese fifth column in Peru. Re-
Yamagata had his passport visaed for Peru as
ports of hidden caches of arms and ammunition
Minister-at-Large for the western Hemisphere.
have never been verified. No instance of sabo-
Three Japanese military officers arrived in
tage has been proved, though the burning of the
Lima on December 4, 1941, with diplomatic pass-
rubber goods factory of Matagoro Kawai just
ports issued in Mexico City. They were Lieuten-
after it had been transferred to Peruvian owmer-
ant Colonel Atunari Utida, designated as Mili-
ship was investigated thoroughly by the Peruvian
tary Attache; Major Rinkai Kaneko, Assistant
Police. No clandestine radios were found in
Military Attache; and Eitaro Yosioka, whose
operation, though a small transmitter was dis-
final destination was to have been La Paz,
covered in the Japanese school near Huaral which
Bolivia. They did not present their creden-
the Peruvian Police felt must have been intended
tials to the Peruvian winister of war. Utida
for purposes other than the instruction of
and Kaneko offered to give lectures in their
grammar school students.
special ty, "Beach Landings," to a group of Peru-
vian officers. These men constituted a part of
Propaganda
a contingent of Japanese officers rushed to
Propaganda in the main consisted of radio
South America just prior to Pearl Herbor.
broadcasts from Japan to which the Japanese might
On January 20, 1942, Colonel Utida in an
listen with their short-wave sets, passing on
effort to prevent a rupture of relations wrote
the information by word of mouth. "Peru Jiho"
a 1etter to the Chief of the Poruvian General
and "Lima Nippo," the Japanese-language daily
Staff in which he said that air and naval bases
newspapers in Lima, stopped publication December
on the Pacific Coast of the western Continent
7, 1941. Their editors, Jinichiro Togushi and
would be destroyed, shipping would be attacked,
Shigetaro Tanaka, respectively, were deported.
and the Peruvian oil fields at Talara would be
All sources of propaganda dissemination intended
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 96
to influence the Peruvian public were termi-
whence he transmitted letters to Buenos Aires
nated. The Peruvian authorities confiscated all
containing commercial espionage information.
printed matter in the Japanese language, in-
His repatriation was requested by the Japanese
cluding a Japanese newspaper printed in Argen-
Government and he was brought from La Paz,
tina. It is rumored that this paper is still
Bolivia, to Lima June 24, 1943, and deported.
entering Peru and is circulated from hand to
Uesugi Akira Masami, deported June 16, 1942,
hand, but there is no available evidence to
traveling representative and inspector of the
prove this assertion.
Japanese Steamship Line Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha
(K Line), was accused of being a commercial spy.
Espionage
Mikio Mochizuki, who made topographical maps for
There are some indications that espionage
Peru Menka, was arrested November 15, 1942, as
was conducted through Japanese commercial houses
an espionage agent. Hajime Kishi, former head
in Peru.
of Sociedad Agricola "Retes," was charged with
having received instructions from the Japanese
Secret messages sent to Buenos Aires from
Government during his stay in Japan in 1941.
Lima have contained information concerning the
affairs of the Japanese colony. In December of
1943 one of these messages stated information
had been received that. one "Barthelmes" was
under observation by the police and, therefore,
mail should be sent to the writer at his post
office box. In all probability this message had
reference to Juan Farthelmes, ho in February of
1943 was the recipient of a letter in Japanese
purporting to be advice to the Japanese colony
in Peru from the Japanese Minister in Chile.
Barthelmes, a Peruvian, had connections with
many Japanese firms and
Sociedad Anonima "Taibo."
Yoshitaro Amano, a partner in K. T. Suetomi
JAPANESE OWNED COTTON AWAITING SHIPMENT TO JAPAN
and Company, operators of a chain of dry goods
IN CHANCAY, PERU, PRIOR TO THE WAR.
stores in Lima, is considered to have been
active in Japanese espionage work in Latin
Santiago Sakay, a naturalized Peruvian and
America. Amano is reported to have been sent to
proprietor of "El Brillante," a Jewelry store
Panama by the Japanese Minister of Foreign Re-
in Lima, purchased gold for the Japanese Embassy.
lations. He had extensive business interests
As late as the middle of 1944, he was reported
to be still making heavy purchases of precious
throughout South America, and traveled up and
down the Pacific Coast in his own yacht. Amano
metals wi thout selling much valuable jewelry.
He has been known to entertain Peruvian army
returned to Japan in 1941, and broadeasted
and police officers at local Chinese restaurants
to South America. It was said that Amano's
son-in-law, Julio Fujii, also a partner in
where he has toasted the Axis.
K. T. Suetomi and Company, was sent to Lima
by the Japanese Government and that he enlisted
the services of Juan Barthelmes for espionage
activities. Fujii left Peru before the sever-
ance of diplomatic relations.
Nobuo Yatoh 1eft Japan December 1, 1939, as
a representative of IH. Yamamoto and Company of
Kobe, Japan, and the Japan Cotton Trading Com-
pany Ltd., of Usaka, Japan, on a projected tour
of Latin American A shipboard companion on his
trip from Japan was Genichi Araki, operator of
a perfume factory in Lima, and the nephew of
Masaji Yamamoto, whose repatriation was later
requested. intries in Yatoh's diary indicated
that he surreptitiously took pho tographs of the
Panama Canal. He spent a few weeks in Peru,
residing at the home of Tora Okugawa, a Japa-
JAPANESE RUBBER FACTORY, LIMA, PERU. THIS FAC-
nese merchant in Lima. ilis address book lists
TORY OPERATED PRIOR TO THE WAR.
fifty-odd contacts in Peru among whom were
Franz Spillmann, suspected of espionage activ-
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
ities for the Axis. Spillmann appealed to both
the Japanese and German Legations when jailed
The day after the Japanese attack on Pearl
by the Peruvians as an Ecuadoran spy. Other
Harbor the Peruvian Government blocked all
contacts were Arthur Vetter, third-ranking Nazi
Japanese funds and all Japanese merchandise
in Peru, and Hans-Jurgen Jensen, a member of
which was in the hands of the customs author-
the NSDAP, regarded as one of the dangerous
ities. On January 21, 1942, President Manuel
Nazis in Peru. Yatoh settled in Bolivia,
Prado announced that Peru would break relations
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 97
with the Axis. Consequently, concurrent with
the adoption of the resolution at the Rio Con-
ference, January 24, 1942, dliplomatic relations
ceased, making Peru the first Latin-American
country to take this action. Economic and
security measures were put into effect.
An important measure adopted for the purpose
of disorganizing the activities of the colony
was that of deporting, for internment in the
Uni ted States or repatriation, the Japanese
leaders and their femilies. Volunteers were
accepted on the first ship. Thereafter, only
members of families of individuals previously
expelled were allowed to elect whether they
would go. The following is a tabulation showing
the number of Japanese nationels who have been
PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN IN THE PORTALES OF THE PLAZA DE
deported since Peru's severance of diplomatic
ARMAS, LIMA, SHOWING ADVERTISING SIGNS IN FRONT
relations:
OF JAPANESE STORES. THESE WERE CLOSED BY THE
Total
PERUVIAN GOVERNMENT AND THE PROCEEDS FROZEN
Date
Name of Ship Expelled Voluntary Number
4/5/42
SS Etolin
16
123
111
March 22, 1943, a law was passed providing for
4/11/42
SS Acadia
46
1
17
the cancelation of naturalization of Axis
6/15/42
SS Shawnee
163
179
312
subjects "who may engage in subversive activity
12/16/42
by plane
15
15
or in propaganda for systems contrary to
1/10/43
SS Johnson
169
169
democracy."
2/24/43
SS Johnson
11:
119
Though there have been no denaturalization
6/29/13
SS Aconcagua
86
86
cases, in the first half of 1944 several of the
7/9/43
SsImperial
105
105
most prominent naturalized Japanese were de-
1/17/14
SS Madison
21
ported, including Nakataro Aray, Ichitaro Mori-
3/1/11
SS Cuba
70
269
3:9
moto, Genzo Nimura, Tadao Taniguchi and Sentei
1/1/11
by plane
5
5
Yagi. All of these Japanese occupied positions
5/21/11
by plane
1
1
of prominnce in commerce and in the Japanese
6/16/41
SS Cuba
:317
317
Central Socity. Japanese have been removed
from most of the Peruvian ports.
Totals
605
1,110
1,748
Of the Japènese deported, 744 were men, 278
women and 726 children. Twenty-five diplomatic
ofticials were deported April 14, 1912, aboard
the SS "Acadia."
In theory, the Peruvians have been agreeable
to the expulsion of all Japanese, but in spe
cific instances high officials opposed and pre-
vented deportation. There were substitutions,
bribery, xtortion and peneral inefficiency.
Five officials of the Ministry of Government
were involved in graft in connection with the
deportation on February 21, 1913. They were
Cesar Cardenas Garcia, Di rector of Government
and Police; Moises Mier y Teran, Inspector
General of the Division of Investigations;
Gonzalo Becerra S., Prefect of Lima; Carlos
Aguirre, Chief of the International Brigade;
and Colonel Arturo Zapata-Velez, Directo r-Gen-
eral of the Civil Guard and Police. bisciplin-
ary action was taken in June of 1943, and a11
but Zapata-Velez were removed from their former
offices.
Japanese schools and organizations have
been closed. Japanese are forbidden to travel
wi thin the boundaries of Peru wi thont special
permits, al though the authorities are known
to sell "Salva Conductos." The most no to rious
offenders in this regard are colonel Arturo
Zapata-Velez and Francisco Piessso, Secretary
to the Prefeet of Calleo. Licenses for hunting,
JAPANESE LUMBER MILL WHICH WAS LOCATED IN TINGO
fishing, and the possession of firearms have
MARIA. PERU. PRIOR TO THE OUTBREAK OF WAR. THIS
been canceled. of some 50 telephones 1isted
PROPERTY HAS BEEN TAKEN OVER BY PERUVIAN IN-
to Japanese, more than 355 were removed. on
TERESTS.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH
LATINAMFRICA

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 98
Economic restrictions consist of the freez-
Japanese in Peru. According to him, Japan has
ing of funds (by the first of 1y43 these funds
long been interested in Peru. He writes as
had reached $1,850,000), government receivership
follows:
of or intervention in Japanese firms, and the
Immigration
nullification of contracts covering rural prop-
"Even though Peru is in South America, it has
erty or its transfer to Japanese nationals. On
April 10, 1y43, it was decreed that all Japa-
an old history of Japanese development. About
nese properties not transferred by May 31, 1943,
1889 Korekiyo Takahashi pl anned to operate Pe-
would be expropriated by the government. Though
ru's silver mines. Ten years later, in February,
this has not been completely enforced, the new
1899, by the hands of the Morioka Immigration
Superintendent of Economy, wilfredo Pflucker,
Coupany, the sending of about 00 contract immi-
has made conscientious efforts in this direction.
grants by the Sakura (Cherry) Maru from Yokohama
In the main, the steps taken by the Peruvian
was the beginning. Later, through the efforts
Government have been effective in spite of in-
of two or three companies, more were sent. In
efficiency and corruption. The economic con-
1917 the Overseas Indus tri al Joint-Stock Company
di tions of the Japanese have become so dire that
was organized and since then this company has
many of them have pleaded to be deported to the
assisted the immigration program. In 1923, the
Uni ted States.
governuent of Peru banned the entry of contract
The "Japanese Peril" does not appear to
immigrants and again in June, 1936.
exist in Peru at the present time. The Japanese
General Activities
remember too well the race riot in 194) to at-
tempt a general uprising unless it is directed
"At present (Apri1, 1941), there are purport-
from wi thout and has some chance of success.
ed to be about 25,000 Japanese in Peru. Seventy
Their leaders have been deported. They are in a
per cent are in the towns and cities engaged in
serious economic plight and their principal con-
commerce and industry and the remaining 30 per
cern seems to be protecting what interests they
cent are farmers. Thus, because of great num-
have left by cloaking operations, false trans-
bers concentrated in the cities, there was a
fers and bribery of government officials. Even
fear that a strong anti-Japanese atmosphere
this last course has proved so costly that many
would be created. Therefore, in 1931 the Japa-
have abandoned it.
nese Association of that country became promot-
ers and organized the Peru Colonization Society
"SOUTH AMERICA" BY SEIZO MOGAMI*
wi th a cap1tal of 50, 000 soles and set up a p1an
to scatter the immigrants. The same society
In the chapters on Argentina and Brazil,
bought 1,000 hectares (2, 471 acres) of 1and in
reference is made to the book "South America"
the Punijas district and rented 20 hectares to
by Seizo Mogami. This Japanese official al so
each family and had them cul tivate it. At pres-
had considerable to say in his work about the
ent the immigrants in the Punijas Colony number
26
UNLOADING JAPANESE GOODS IN CALLAO, PERU, PRIOR TO DECEMBER, I94I. SINCE THAT TIME NO GOODS HAVE
SEEN IMPORTED FROM JAPAN.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 99
a few thousand persons. As for crops, orn and
BOLIVIA
citrus fruits are cul tivated and good results
are being obtained. The important Japanese en-
terprises are the Peru Raw Cotton Joint-Stock
BACKGROUND
Company's Parupa plantation and the raw cotton
industryof the lettuce plantation of the Lettuce
Population and Locatior
Farming Joint-Sto ck Company. Besides these in
The Japanese Foreign 0 ffice records indi cate
the vicinity of ci ties anu towns, varieties of
that on 0ctober 1, 1938, there were 875 reg1s-
flowers and vegetabl es are cultivated and the
tered Japanese in Bolivia. Five hundred ninoty
amount of annual production is approximately
of this number were men and 285, women. It is
20,000,00) yen in Japanese money.
believed at the present time there are between
600 and 700 Japanese in Bolivia. It is diffi-
cult to give tne exact number of Jepanese since
Industry
a large number of persons considered Japanese
by the general public were bom in Bolivia and
"Commerce and industry began witn the manu-
actually have Bolivian nationality.
facture of automobile bodies, electrical appli-
The Japanese popul ation of La Paz is esti-
ances, hats and rubber. Small business is car-
mated at about 200. It is believed that there
ried on by providing miscell aneous goods for
are from 80 to 100 addi tional Japanese in other
daily use in cafes, barber shops, and the like.
cities on the Bolivian Altiplano. Practically
Among the Japanese in Peru there are those who
all the remaining Japanese in Bolivian are to
be found in the Department of Bent where they
nave been moderately successful and the amount
of money sent to Japan annually reaches more
are for the most part engaged in agricul tural
than 3,000,000 yen. In the neighborhood of the
pursuits and in keeping small shops. The origi-
capi tal, Lima Ci ty, about 10, 00 Japanese resi de.
nal Japanese settlers migrated to Bolivia as
Tne Plaza de Aruma called the Ginza of Lima
laborers on the rubber plantations in the
is tie center comprising the Port of Callao.
Amazonian lowl ands. This work was not. lucrative
Here are 1, 500 Japanese business shops in row
so they gradually moved to the towns and cities,
upon row. Much ot the purenasing is done in
where many of them became merchants.
bo un Japanese and Spani sh. Trade asso ci ations
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
have al so been organi zed and there are as many
as 41 such groups. And in the whole country
The Japanese in general have never enjoyed
there have been 27 Japanese el ementary schools
social prestige or high social posi tion in
wi th 5,000 cni1dren and more than 100 teachers.
Bolivia. Tnis is especi ally true since the out-
break of World War II. A few Japanese, who
The Attack on the Stores
have lived in Bolivia for many years and who
have managed during that time to inject them-
"The more the development of the Japanese
selves into the upper soclal levels, may be said
to be exceptions to this general rule.
stores flourished, the more the merchants
For example, Vicente Ochiay, past and pres-
of one part of the country harbored ill feelings
ent presi dent of the Japanese Society in Bolivia,
and final1y on May 13, 1940, the case of the
has several good social contacts and influential
attack on Japanese stores in the vicini ty of the
f'riends. Another excep tion to the general rule
City of Lima occurred and as a result of the
is Miguel Kiyo to, a rather prosperous merchant,
mobiliztion of troops it failed. This aftair
wno has now taken Bolivian nationality. A resi-
was started first by a part of the students
dent of Bolivia for many years, Ki yoto nas many
setting off the fuse but the people also parti ci-
loyal fri ends. He is married to a sister of
pated in it. In the background politicians were
fo rmer Prest dent German Busch. Outside those
connected wi th the attack. The damage to Japa-
two individuals and a few otner exceptions,
nese stores encompassed 600 buildings. Three
the Japanese do not enjoy any appreciable in-
thousand families were affected. In the plunder
fluence in Bolivia, either individually or as
of merchandise and demolition of houses, the
Peruvi ans used the extreme of viol ence. The
a group.
The Jap anese Society of La Paz maintained
Japanese Government, througn Minister Ki tada,
and operated a soci al club on Batallon Colorados
immedi ately sent a strict pro test to the Govern-
Street until about January, 1943, at which time
ent of Peru. The result was, on May 7, as a
it was voluntarily closed. This club contained
puni shment in this incident, 53 leading men of
moms for meetings, billlards, cards and various
the Apura Party were arrested and the 56 leading
other recreational activi ties. All the Japanese
en of the Communist Party were sentenced to
in La Paz, wnetner members of the club or not,
exile or 1mprisonment. Besides, 16 universi ty
had free access to its benefits. The business
students and 70 ni gh schoo1 students were ex-
and social leaders of the Japanese colonies were
pelled from school and 8 inst rictors who insti-
members and supported the club's functions.
gated this riot were dismissed. The publication
However, the club rooms of the Japanese society
of the magazine "Mundo Grafico, " which reported
were not patroni zed to any great extent by in-
a false account, was ordered suspended. Later,
fluential Bolivians, and after the beginning of
the Japanese victims, as indemnity for damages,
received 100,000 so1es (68,000 yen, Japanese
the present war, very few Bolivians attended the
money, and the ineident was thus settled."
social functions of the Club.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.98)
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
AREA COMPARISON
OUTLINE MAP OF BOLIVIA
IMPOSED ON MAP OF 10 U.S.
STATES IS SIMILAR IN AREA
INDIANA
OHIC
WEST VIRGINIA
MENTUCRY
VIRGINIA
NORTH CAMOLINA
TENNESSEE
SOUTH CARULINA
ALABAMA
GEORGIA
TOTAL AREA OF BOLIVIA H9.47O SQ. MILES
TOTAL COMBINED AREA OF INDIANA. OHIO. WEST VIRGINIA. VIRGINIA, KENTUCKY. NORTH
CAROLINA. TENNESSEE. SOUTH CAROLINA. ALABAMA. AND GEORGIA 421,489 SQ. MILES

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.97)
Page-101
In the political sphere, as in the social,
this project. They were again refused. permis-
the Japanese in Bolivia have never been able
sion to carry out the program.
to develop any important influence.
Commercial Firms
COMMERCE
While in many Latin American countries large
Japanese commercial firms had branch offices
Prior to the present war, the Japanese on
which were used for more or less official pur-
the Bolivian Altiplano had the most important
poses, in Bolivia the large, semiofficial firms
small establishments of general merchandise in
of Mitsui, Mitsubishi, the N.Y.K. and other
the cities of La Paz, Cochabamba, Oruro and Po-
steamship lines, large Japanese banks, and
tosi. Since Bolivia's entry into the war, how-
similar organizations had no representation.
ever, many of these es tablishments have been
For the most part, Japanese in Bolivia who en
voluntarily liquidated by their Japinese owners,
gaged in direct commercial activities with
many of wnom turned to agricul tural work.
Japan operated as sales representatives rather
No large merehandise establishments of out-
than direct agents.
standing importance have been owned by Japanese
An exception was Lucio D. Nishi, now be-
interests. From a commereial standpoint no
lieved to be in Japan, who represented the Japa-
Japanese in Bolivia have become influential in
nese firm Casa Showa for a time in Bolivia and
the same manner that certain German businessmen
also acted as representative for Itoh and Com-
in the country atta ined commere ial importance.
pany, Japan. For the latter company Nishi is
reported to have made purchases of Bolivian min-
era1s in 1911 amount ing to more than $600,000.
Another except ion was Tomas Komori, who is
currently interned in the United States. He
was formerly a representative in Bolivia of
Sanwa and Company, Kobe, Japan. For this company
he purchased wolfram, antimony, cobalt and lead
from the Bolivian Banco Minero. His purchases
are said te have exceeded $1, 000, 000 and
his last shipment of wolfram was reported to
hive been made November 24, 1941, only two weeks
before Pearl Harbor.
Viccnte lehiay, mentioned above, has
stated tha: as one of the leading Japanese in
Bolivia, he had a Iways been opposed to the large
companies' sendine their agents to Bolivia. He
JAPANESE FARMLAND
gave as a reason the fact that the semiofficial
na ture of sueh companies was well known and he
frared the activities of such agents would
In the Department of Beni, preyious ly re-
prejudice the posit ion of the Japanese small
ferred te, the Japinese are engaged in agricul-
merehants who had buili up their bus iness and
tural pursuits and in keeping sma11 shops. In
god will over a period of years in the country.
certa in ci: ies of Beni, ine luding Riberalta
and Trinidad, as we1l as in  rta in cit ies in
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
Pando Deparunent, ine iuding Cobija, the Japanese
No subversive etivities of an important
have a virtual monopoly on the prodhiet ion ot
nature are known te have been commit ted by the
some agriculturai produets. It is stated that.
dapanese in Boliv ia. This has been due not so
particularly in the field of fresh f'ruits and
much to a le k ot desire as to a lack of oppor-
vegetab les, the Japanese feed these cit ies.
unity.
When it became apperent in 1912 theat varior
sma11 Japanese t'irms on the Bolivian Alt iplano
The Japanese Society
were to be liquidated, several of the more
prominent Japanese, with the approval ot the
The Japanese Society in La Paz maintained
Bolivian Government, formed a Japanese Agri-
and opera ted a soe iaI club unt il about January,
cultural Soc iety. These Japanese int ended to
1913. 1: is believed that this club also served
purchase a farm and to engage in agriculturai
in the pist as a medium for col leeting and send-
work. The farm was to be worked by those
ing money to Japan to turther the Jappanese war
Japanese who were thrown out of employment by
effort. Available evidence indicates that after
the liquidation of their sma11 stores.
the Proela imed list restrietions became effec-
In 1942, this agricultura1 group attempted
tive, the Japinese Society of La Paz served as a
to purchase a farm near Chulumani. However, it
means for purchasing goods at wholesale in
was feared by Allied officials that the Japanese
Argentina and redistribut ing the goods among the
would use their farm to hinder the produet ion
merchants in Ia Paz for resale. Since a1l the
of quinine in Bolivia. In addition, it was re-
Japanese bus inesses in La Paz were general mer-
garded as inadvisable tor the Japanese to be
chandise establi hments, they needed the same
concentrated at any partieular place in Bolivit.
kind of merchantise. The Japinese Club, recog-
In 1941, the members of the Japanese Agricul-
niz ing this need, oceasionally took orders from
tural Society at tempted to obta in elearance with
the various Japanese stores and placed one
government offieia Is in Ia Paz to proceed with
large order with the Japanese Legation in Buenos
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH.LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 177 === (confidence 1.00)
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOREIGN POPULATION
• Each symbol represents 200 persons
GERMANS
12,000
BRITISH
YUGOSLAVIANS
500
1,500
SPANISH
400
NORTH AMERICANS
ITALIANS
400
400
JAPANESE
200

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.91)
Page 103
Aires. The goods were then shipped in bulk to
Recent information indicates that although
the Japanese Society in La Paz, which made the
the subject was formerly active in Japanese mat
proper distribution among the Japanesemerchants.
ters, he has ceased much of his activity along
The Japanese Society of La Paz since the
this line. He is now attempting to liquidate
war has taken little active part in commerce.
his commercial stock.
This has been due more to necessity than to
Kiyoto was recommended to the Bolivian Gov-
choice. Many of the Japanese establishments
ernment in May, 1944, for deportation from the
have been closed and therefore the Japanese
country, but because of his long residence in
Society was forced to limit its efforts in the
Bolivia, his Bolivian nationality, and his Bo-
commercial sphere.
livian family ties, the Government refused to
According to statements made by Vicente
deport him.
Ochiay, President of the Japanese Society in
Vicente Ochiay was the owner of Casa Ochiay.
Ia Paz, the Society was split into two political
La Paz. This was formerly one of the more
seetions. One was a group of Japanese who had
important small general merchendise establish-
been in Bolivia for many years. This unit was
ments in La Paz. Ochiay in 1941 was reported
less interested in Japanese imperialism than was
to have represented for a time the Matsura
tee other. The other group was hended by Tatsuo
Trading Company in purehasing quantities of
M rebe kipue , a young Ja panese, who led a
tin and ant imony from the Baneo Minero in
group of youthful Japanese, all of whom had
Ia Paz. It is estimated that his purchases
arrived relatively reeent ly in Bolivia from
amounted to approximately $350,000. Ochiay is
Japan. These young Iapanese had received an
the President of the Japanese Centra1 Society
"imperial istie" edlueat ron in Japan. The strength
and also of the Japanese Agricultural Society
of the Manabe tact ton was broken when Manabe
of' Bolivin. I: is known that members of the
nimse1f and evera1 momter ot his sroup were
Japanese colony come to him for ass is tance and
deported 'o tiee 11i! States in May, 1914.
counsel. He is married to a Japanese who is
Pror inent Leaders
now living in liros ima, Japan. Their five
children are a1so living in Japan.
Santiago T. Komort ar: and operates a shirt
Deniay came to Bolivia in 1911 and resided
frtory in La Paz, Pd:1 Both he und hi fae
in (ochabamba until approximately 1935, at which
tory are on the Uni  Lrela imed List.
tin he moved to La Paz. He was in Japan as
He is cons idered to be one of the mosi success-
late as November, 1910. Ochiay is considered
fu! Japánese brsinessmen in Bol ivia and is one
to be one of th few Japanese in Bol ivia with
ot the leder ot the relny. Prior 
cood sor ial and politieal contae ts.
he war, Komori mpr r L:pn wher
Torojiro Hayakawa and the store he formerly
rpordndir in t
owned and operated, known as "T. H.P. ", located
busine of Samw d p my. Kob. Thl coun-
on Cal le Loaiza, La Paz, are on the Uni ted
pany 1s be11.v1 1 1.
States Proclaimed List. He is regarded by his
espionage etForts in South Amerrea. Komori has
fullow countrymen as extremely intelligent and
rave led extensively in Bolivit. Besides the
will ing to do everything in his power to aid the
shirt. faetory, Komeri has batsiness interests in
Japanese cause.
Casa Komori, a goteeri meretandise store, and à
silk tactory.
Sant irgo T. Komerl i a relat ive of Tomes
Komeri, considered a pol it re1ly dareerous Jape-
mese. who was doporr1 trom Po1r n Miy,1911.
Komori had been a tr ppent isitor to pre German
Legat ion betore Boli i deelared war on thee Ax is.
Sine het tmee he 1  e Spmsh l
1ion.
Komori returned to Bolav ia t'rom his last
trip to Japn in November, 1911. He has been
in Bolivia almost thirty years, and, betore the
war, was we1l ent renehed in Bolivian comneree.
Miguel k. Kiyoto arrived in Bolivia in 1912.
A lthoueth ne i now  natur Lized Bolivian, he
is regarded as beine one of the more poli: ie: 1ly
dangerous Japinese in Bolivia. lie is st i11 a
JAPANESE FAPH BUILDINGS
staunch panriot ot Japon. kiyoto is msarried to
Joset ina Busch, si: ter ot Bolivia's tormer
Rioko Higa 1 nai ot a large family in
pres ident, German Besch. Kiyoto was formerly
Bol ivit. The mrmbors o1 this fami ly are in
one ot Bolivia's lesad ing Ja pinese merehants:how-
busines in various Bol ivian cities. Higa is
ever, his commereial tet ivit ies have been cur-
rapable ond i> known to be very loya1 to Japan.
ta i led to some extent by his ine lus i on on the
ihe has in the past teen triendly witn officials
United States Proebsimed List. he is corsidered
ot former Rol ivian povernments.
to be the leader ot the da panese colony in
Masayoski Hiramatsu is knonn as a very
Cochabamba. kiyoto tormeriy traveled extensive
pat rio tie ipanese who desi res to be one of
1y thronghont Bo1ivi: nd in Febru:ry, 133).
the Leaders of me Japanese in Bolivia. He has
he made one of his treonent visits to Japon.
made statement to other Japanese to the erfeet
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPHLATINAMLPILA
★

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 104
that all of them should work together for the
In May, 1944, under the Bolivian Govern-
benefit of the Japanese Empire. He is on the
ment's program of deportation of Axis nationals,
United States Proclaimed List but states that
which was instituted through the leadership
the Proclaimed List restrictions are not very
of President Gualberto Villarroel, 29 Japanese
difficult to avoid.
nationals were deported from Bolivia for intern-
Isaac Kawamura is an important Japanese
ment in the United States. These Japanese had
in La Paz and an intelligent able individual.
engaged in subversive activities inimical to the
He lists among his friends several important
interests of the Uni ted Nations.
Bolivians, and had close connections with
In Bolivia there has long been pending a
former government officials.
program of expropriation of Axis firms. This
program is under the control of the Bolivian
Armando Ono and the store he formerly
Government's "Junta de Defensa Economica"
owned and operated, Almacenes Ono, are on the
(Economic Defense Board). The board, from its
United States Proclaimed List. Ono is related
inception, has been hampered by pressure applied
by marriage to Miguel Kiyoto, a leading Japanese
to it, especially by friends of certain in-
wholesal er in Cochabamba. He is considered one
fluential Germans in Bolivia. Relatively little
of the leaders of the Japanese colony in Bolivia.
influence is believed to have been applied in
Claudio Tanaka is generally regarded as
behalf of the Japanese. Several Japanese firms
the most successful Japanese business operator
in the country have been liquidated and payment
in Trinidad, Bolivia. In addition to a general
for such liquidations has been made into blocked
merchandise store, he is said to own a carpenter
accounts. All of these liquidations were volun-
shop and a brake factory. He is thought to be
tary sales, rather than sales which were forced
the most influential and best educated Japanese
by direct action on the part of the Bolivian
in Trinidad, where he is recognized as the
Government.
leader of the Japanese community. His store
The Bolivian Government has also appointed
is the meeting place for most of the Japanese
in terventors for firms on the United States Pro-
in the Trinidad area. Tanaka is very indus-
claimed List which are owned by Axis nationals.
trious and his weal th may amount to approx-
The appointment of these interventors was de-
imately $12,000 United States currency.
signed to prohibit the firms from using their
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
funds for other than strictly commercial pur-
pos es.
Bolivia severed relations wi th Japan and
Al though the control of the Bolivian Govern-
other Axis powers on January 26, 1942. A little
ment over the Japanese could be improved it is
more than a year later the government declared
not believed that the Japanese in Bolivia are
the existence of a state of war between Japan
in a position to do any damage to the pro-
and Bolivia.
gram of the United Nations.
*In 1940 Seizo Mogami visited South America as a representative of the Japanese Government. Dur-
ing his journey he gathered considerable information of Japanese activities in the southern repub-
lics. On his return to Japan he wrote a book entitled, "South America" which he had published in
Tokyo in September of 1941. A translation of this book reflects that it is mainly concerned with
the social, economic and political life of the Japanese in South America. There are indications
that some of this material would not be available to any person other than a Japanese official.
This material has not been verified. However, it is being presented at this time as a supplement
for whatever value it may possess.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 105
Chapter 10
CHILE
BACKGROUND
were paid by the Japanese Government. As a re-
sult of this effort, the Japanese commenced to
Population and Location
develop their soeial prestige in Chile.
Japan attempted to popularize the Ja panese
Shortly after the break of relations between
Chile and Japan on January 20, 1943, officia1s
Nation in the eyes of the Chileans. Japan also
flooded Chile with goods and commodities of
of the Chilean Government entered the Japanese
cheap manufacture in a further effort to awaken
Legation. This entry was made in reprisal for
interest in the Orient and to divert trade from
e forcible seizure of papers from the Chilean
England and the United States.
Legation in Tokyo. Among the papers seized was
Some of the Japanese in Chile have married
a list of 669 Japanese. This list included chil-
natives of the coutry, thereby achieving a de-
dren born prior to 1936. It is believed that
gree of social recognition in their own particu-
the 11st was originally made up in 1926 or 1927
lar sphere. For example, Yoshitaro Amano, on
but was not kept ip to date. Seventy-eight Japa-
marrying a Spanish woman, attempted to use this
nese were repatriated on September 16, 1913.
connection as a wedge todevelop political influ-
It is estimated that there are approximately
ence for the Japanese in Chile. He purchased a
400 Japanese now in Chile. of these individuals,
large country estate and commenced to move about
eighty por cent i ave resided in Chile for more
in the company of Chileans having some political
than ten years. Wiile as many as eighty Japa-
status. However, he did not meet with any im-
nese have been relgated to various small Chile-
portant success.
an tow's since che ex ernal security law was
In recent years, Japan has been sending more
passed on December :1, 1912, only twelve of them
Japanese women to Chile, probably to counteract
are so relegated at the present time. Thirty-
the tendoney toward intermarriage. The Japanese
three Japanese who had been relegated have since
Government has also attempted to exercise a
Leen repatriated.
strong central control over its settlers in
On enterin: Chile, some of the Japanese
Chile.
settled near railroud lines und important ports,
where they were emploved us laborers. Most of
POLITICAL PENETRATION
them, however, beeam comcentrated in Santiago,
Valparaiso and surroundin areas.
It is lnown that the Japanese political or-
ganization in Iatin Amcrica was very similar in
SOCIAL PENETRATION
many respects to the German system. Career
Japantse activity in (1.ile has taken a dif-
diplomats in the Japanese Foreign Service found
ferent form from the methods utilized by the
themselves subordinated to younger men who had
Japanese in other South American countries. In
been schooled in the ideology of the present
Chile we find that there arene substantial Japa-
military regime of Japan. These men sought to
nese colonies similar to chose in Peru and Bra-
direct and control the political efforts of
zil. The Japanese have made no strong attempts
their people in a manner which would be most
to build up and populate an extensive Japanese
effective to the Mother Country. The Japanese
representation in this nation. This may appear
Overseas Ministry assisted these efforts. In
to be twusual in view of the fact that Chile is
Chile, Sozan Miyoshi was adviser to the Overseas
more wealty in commercial and industrial possi-
Ministry. Takeyasu Hombo, Yei Mamiya Fuhara and
bilities than most of her neighbors. Some re-
Goro Miyasaki were also active with this group.
porters have attributed the dearth of Japanese
When the more subtle methods to penetrate
colonial activity to the possille desire of the
Chile politically failed, the Japanese attempted
Japanese authorities to have ther large emigra-
to influence Chilean international policies by
tion groups further to the north.
veiled threats of attack along the vulnerable
In 1936, Chile did, however, begin to exper1-
coast line of that country. With this new
ence the influence and pressure of Japanese ex-
approach, Japan was again ineffective. In Oc-
pansion. Peru at that same time placed a quota
tober of 1943 Chile severed relations with the
restriction on Japanese imm1gration. Although
Axis nations.
there was still not a great immigration of Japa-
COMMERCE
nese to Chile, the Japanese attempted to extend
their influence through the expanded activlties
The history ard development of Japanese in-
of cultural, scientific, literary and other
telligence activity was closely related to the
specialized missions. Japanese diplomatic offi-
activities of the large commercial firms. In
cials were increasingly active in offering to
1935 some of the larges1. Japanese import and ex-
the Chilean people cultural courses in Japanese
port fimms began opening branch offices in Chile.
history, art and the Japanese language. Chilean
Phe principal finas were: Cia. Chilena Oriental,
university professors, newspapermen and students
Mitsubishi, Nippon Trade Agency, Casa Taibo,
were sent to Japan to study and their expenses
Nippon Yusen Kaisha, and Casa Itoh, Itda. By a
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LAIIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.98)
REPUBLIC OF CHILE
AREA COMPARISON
Map cempares area of Chile
MIN
with combined area of :
MINNESOTA IOWA
MISSOURI
ARKANSAS
LOUISIANA
Area of these states
IOWA
totals 312,090 sQ. MILES
ARK
Area of Chile
286,322 SQ. MILES

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 107
Chilean decree issued after the break of rela-
to have been replaced as manager by Takeo Takana
tions between Chile and Japan, it was required
and Yonosuke Hagiwara, who were also employed by
that all Axis-owned assets be registered. All
this company. A review of the confidontial
these assets were frozen and placed under the
files of Takeo Takano revealed that the fim was
control of an authorized custodian. As of Au-
engaged in espionage activity for the Japaness.
gust 28, 1S44, however, the above-named firms
The files contained a voluminous mass of materi-
were subject to liquidation or to forced trans-
al, consisting of reports and drafts of reports,
fer under Decree 581 of the Chilean Government.
on Uni ted States strategic materials, govern-
It is interesting to note in this connection
mental operation, and data concerning minute de-
that with very few exceptions all of the im-
tails of war production, distribution and con-
portant members of these firms have been re-
sumption. The majority of this material was
patriated.
taken from sources such as Fortwle Magazine,
Time, The Nation, mining trade journals, and a
Compania Chilena Oriental
number of government-distributed pamphlets.
It has been ascertained that this firm was
A complete file was found as to the initial
originally established under the name of S.
measures to be taken by the company at the be-
Shirakata in 1935. The name of the firm was
ginning of the war and plans for the probable
changed to Cia. Chilena Oriental in 1937, but
evacuation of the personnel during December 1941.
the principals of the company have always been
The data shown under date of December 5, 1941,
Mitsui and Company of Japan.
indicates that previous warning had been given
The principal exports of this firm were
to the company as shown by notations that an
ostensibly copper ores, wool, manganese and
order to evacuate had been received from the
Chilean agricultural produce. Two Japanese,
head of the personnel department at a meeting
namely Kaname Nakayama and Sueyuki Nakatsuka,
held by Manager Miyasaki. Instructions were
were reported to lhave joint ownership of the
gi ven as to the work of each individual, the
f1rm, the declared capi ta1 of which was 120,000
methods of liquidating the company, and a pro-
pesos. However, they are said to have operated
gram for the firm as a "sleeper company" in the
in millions of pesos until the outbreak of the
future. These notations recorded the designa-
current war. Remitedly, tlis firm had approxi-
tion of a liquidator, Juan Esteban Montero. Un-
mately 25,000, 000 pesos in Chile, which amount
der date of December 7, 1911, was listed the re-
was in the hands of a third party, but actually
port of the outbreak of the Japanese-American
under the control of Itsuki Takada, a representa-
war and the facc that all documents and corre-
tive of the Yokohama Specie Bank.
spondence were taken to the home of Miyasaki for
Goro Miyasaki, the manager of the company in
buming. Under Jate of December 8 was recorded
1940, who was expelled by the Chilean authori-
the actunl burning of the documents with the no-
ties in 1942, was a leader of Japanese espionage
tation: "Made sure from the garden that no
activities in Chile. Goro Miyasaki was reported
smoke was enitted: two men atiended the fire
COMPANIA CHILENA ORIEN TAL AFFILIATES: 1. SUEYUKI NAKATSUKA, 2. TAKEO TAKANO, 3. TAKEO OZASA, 4.
ITSUKI TAKADA, 5. SHIGEHARU TAKAHASHI, 6. SADAYOSHI NAKAYAMA, 7. KO KAWAMURA, 8. SUSUMI MIYASAKI,
9. YONOSUKE HAGIWARA, IO. JITSUICHI TAYAMA.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 108
COMPANIA CHILENA ORIENTAL, LEFT TO RIGHT: BACK ROW: D. RIDDELL, LUIS PALACIOS, L. VARELA, IGNACIO
NOVOA, KANAME NAKAYAMA, UNKNOWN, TAKEO OZASA, M. VALENCIA: FRONT ROW: S. NAKATSUKA, BAREND BARENDS,
J. CHIACHI, GORO MIYASAKI, Y. HAGIWARA.
alternately in thirty-minute shifts.
Japan after having been in Santiago for approxi-
All the prominent members of this firm have
mately two years, and Teruo Miyake. Miyake act-
been repatriated, with the exception of Luis
ed as the manager of the firm. The company was
Yasushi Kawaguchi.
engaged in importing goods from Japan, such as
cotton, wool, glass, and similar articles. It
also exported Chilean products such as copper,
Mitsubishi
manganese and nitrate to Japan.
This firm, legally authorized by Chilean de-
Other important members of this firm were
cree on October 7, 1940, had a declared cap1tal
Kiyoshi Ichikawa, Takeshi Takenaka and Jiro Mat-
of 00,000 pesos. The principal stockholders of
sumoto. Ail of the prominent individuals con-
the company were Tsuneo Kaike, now residing in
nected with this firm have been repatriated.
KIYOSHI ICHIKAWA
TERUO MIYAKE
JIRO MATSUMOTO
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 109
Nippon Trade Agency (Assenjo)
who has been suspected of espionage. Other im-
portant members of this agency were Jitsuichi
The Nippon Trade Agency was a Japanese for-
Tayama, Reikichi Tanabe, Enji Karaka and Kazuo
eign trade federation formed by all of the local
Kanetsuma. Shinya, Tayama and Tanabe were re-
foreign trade agencies in Japan on July 1, 1938.
patriated; Nakagawa and Karaka have been rele~
This organization is said to have been the offi-
gated; and Kanetsuma, whose activities were not
cial commercial representative organization for
considered to be subversive, was also relegated,
the Japanese Overseas Ministry. Its Santiago
The principal points of the program official
branch was located at Calle Agustinas 972, Room
ly assigned to the Nippon Trade Agency were the
801, and used Casilla 4107 of the Central Post
coordination and control of international trade
with Japan; propaganda: the advertising of Japa-
nese goods; the publication of official maga-
zines and reviews; and any other work which
might entail a closer affiliation between Japa-
nese and Chilean interests. As a result of this
program, Shinya established in Santiago the In-
stituto Cultural Chileno-Japones to reciprocate
cultural relations with the analogous institu-
tion which had been founded in Tokyo under the.
same name. Letters, reviews and greetings were
regularly exchanged by the Chilean and Japanese
members of the institutes in Santiago and Tokyo.
In 1941, two Chilean films were purchased from
the Instituto de Cinematografia Educativa de
Chile and sent to the institute in Japan. Four
Japanese films were subsequently sent from Tokyc
to Santiago and were later presented by Shinya
in a Santiago theater.
Cia. Comercial Taibo, S.A.
The Casa Taibo, Santiago, Chile, was one of
the three largest Japanese import and export
firms in Chile, with headquarters at Huerfanos
972. It was known as the Pacific Commercial
KICHIMATSU SHINYA
Trading Company until 1927, when it was in-
volved in a customs duty fraud, whereupon the
title was changed. After several reorganiza-
tions, it eventually assumed, in 1938, the name
Cia. Comercial Taibo, S.A., with a capital of a
million pesos. This company has been repeatedly
reported as a center of Japanese subversive ac-
tivity. It was subsidized by the Japanese Gov-
ernment and specialized in the shipment of min-
erals to Japan. It was also the agent for the
NYK Steamship Line (Nippon Yusen Kaisha).
Its principal members were Kenosuke Kawagu-
chi, Ko Kawamura, Itsuo Miyamoto, Mitsuo Okayama
and Tsuneji Shimitzu, all of whom have been re-
patriated. Suskichi Matsukawa and Shiziji Hara-
moto are the only members of this firm of im-
portance remaining in Chile.
Luis Omar i iriguez, a Chilean, was employed
by the Valparai branch of the Taibo firm from
1937 until it - closed. It is reported that
since Rodriguez severed connections with this
finu, he has not engaged in any commercia 1 ac-
tivity.
Casa Iton, Ltda.
The Japanese organization of Casa Itoh,
DENOSUKE NAKAGAWA
Ltda., operated in Chile from January, 1940, un-
Office in Santingo. The director was Kichimatsu
til the severance of relations between Chile and
Shinya, a Japanese who resided in Chile for al-
the Axis countries in January, 1943. The firm
most thi rty years. Shinya was also the director
was engaged in importing Japanese products and
of a prominent propaganda magazine called "Re-
exporting Chilean products. It is known that
vista Nippon." Another director of this agency
Casa Itoh sometimes used the name Casa Sanko.
was a Japanese Journalist, Denosuke Nakagawa,
Its principal officers were Fukunosuke Nomura
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 110
MEMBERS OF COMPANIA COMERCIAL TAIBO, S. A.
and Tatsuo Mizokoshi. Both of these individuals
Santiago." However, there was no such person at
acted in closa association with the Japanese Le-
that address, although several Japanese business
firms formerly had offices in this building.
gation and are known to have contacted German
It is believed this was a fictitious name used
elements in Santiago on frequent occasions. The
only member of the firm who remained in Chile
as a cover by Casa Itoh.
was Hisashi Kunihiro.
Sociedad Agricola Caupolican, Ltda.
This organization was a member of the Japa-
nese mineral corporation known as the Yonsha,
On July 31, 1943, the Sociedad Agricola
which incluled other Japanese firms such as
Caupolican, Ltda., was founded with a capital
Ta ibo and Mitsubishi.
of 260,000 pesos contributed by Japanese nation-
It was learned that mail was dispatched
als, some of whom were being repatriated. This
from Casa Itoh, Ltda., Santiago, bearing the re-
corporation has power to purchase, sell or rent
turn address of "A. Gonzalez G., Agustinas 972,
properties, machines and agricul tural products.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 111
TATSUO MIZOKOSHI
FUNKUNOSUKE NOMURA
Tne administrat ion of the Society is vested in
and submarines from scheduled points on the
Julio Matsumoto, Au: :ro Tsunekawa, Toramatsu
Chilean coast.
Yame ds nd Jor Yamámto.
The Japanese have been at a disadvantage in
The directorate 1 e corporation rented
espionage because of their conspicuous appear-
the Bllavista farm in.  re ton of Caupolican.
ance but, through the utilization of trade ac-
This farm is the property of Sra. Amanda Parodi
tivities as a cloak and by means of diplomatic
de Solis, and is located ten kilometers from the
covers, they were able to work freely in Chile.
town of Rengo, whici. is some eighty miles south
The Japanese attempted to spread propaganda by
of Santiago in a locality known as Chanquihue.
using sympathetic Chilean natives. It is be-
The farm consists of about thirteen miles of
lieved that similar attempts were made in con-
irrigated level land and has pasturage covering
nection with Japanese espionage work.
an area of five miles. The organization at
Information from various sources indicates
present is employing about fifty Chilean labor-
that Japanese groups have operated along the
ers. There is some livestock on this farm, but
entire coast of Chile in order to obtain de-
no motorized vehicles, nor does it have elec-
tailed data regarding the coast and means of
tricity. Various Japanese have responded to the
communication in Chile. It was reported that
offer of the organization and are living on the
the Japanese used a clandestine radio trans-
farm.
mitting apparatus in the Puerto Montt area,
which transmitted information relative to geog-
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
raphy, atmospleric conditions and the people's
attitude toward )apan. It was further reported
The exact pattern of Japanese espionage ac-
that Japanes: elements were active in the port
tivity and operarions in Chile has been obscure.
regions of Valparaiso, Mejillones, Tocopilla and
It is believed that this work has been carried
Antofagasta.
on primarily through the Japanese diplomatic or-
Purchase of Maps
ganization. In this work, the Japanese Govern-
ment has utilized the services of undercover
Available evidence indicates that the Japa-
agents and individuals ostensibly operating in
nese Naval Attache in Santiago, Chile, Sadayoshi
connection with various Japanese coumercial
Nakayama, purchased on August 10, 1942, a de-
finns maintaining offices or agencies in Chile.
tailed plan of the Chilean Island of Chiloe,
For many years the Japanese systematically
which is located south of Puerto Montt, and a
conducted espionage activities in Chile. The
map of the Pumta Arenas section of the Magallan-
Japanese Government utilized officials of the
es region. The plans of the cities of Coquimbo
Japanese Army and Navy in undercover capacities
and Iquique in the northern regions of Chile
in the securing of data of a strategic nature.
were also secured.
The Japanese obtained maps of Chile, and prior
It was subsequently stated that the Japa-
to the outbreak of the Pacific war, it is re-
nese Ambassador in Santiago, Chile, Kijoshi
ported that Japanese ships were seen cruising
Yamagata, had received instructions from Tokyo
around the southern coast of Chile making charts
to investigate and forward certain information
and presumably developing informatin relative
to the Japanese Fmbassy in Argentina for ulti-
to possible bases. The Japanese worked in con-
mate transmission to Tokyo. It was believed
junetion with German elements in southern Chile
that the Japanese desired to secure the follow-
in formulating a plan for supplying Axis raiders
ing data:
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 112
A rough sketch of the electric power plants
Pascua) as a clandestine point of contact be-
at Tocopilla, Chanaral and San Antonio, Chile,
tween Chilean vessels or ships of another na-
including information about the distance these
tionality and Japanese ships. In this manner
power plants were from the shore and a general
the Japanese desired to secure materials from
description of the harbors and the state of the
Chile whioh were needed in strengthening their
defenses;
military machine. It is likely that Japan
Information concerning the harbor installa-
wished to secure in this manner both copper and
tisns at Antofagasta, Iquique and Arica; and
nitrate. However, since the mining industries
Information concerning coastal air bases and
in Chile are largely controlled by North Ameri-
the approximate number of airplanes located at
can interests and since the activities on Easter
these points.
Island are under the supervision of the English
It is to be noted that these regions are
fim of Williamson Balfour and Company, it ap-
strategic areas connected with the copper mining
pears that the Japanese plans failed.
and nitrate industries in Chile. The electric
Japanese-Chilean Collaboration
power plants mentioned are those used to supply
American copper mines with power for their opera-
Arturo Espinosa Mujica, who was the head of
tions.
the Chilean Military Mission sent to the United
Japanese interests in Chile also attempted
States in March, 1942, was reported as being
to purchase topographical instruments in Santi-
pro-Japanese. He was at one time the Chilean
ago.
Military Attache in Tokyo and on his return
In January, 1942, it was reported that a
associated closely with Japanese elements in
representative of the Japanese Embassy had con-
Santiago.
tacted various Chilean individuals, including
Rafael Moreno Echevarria (Raoul Moreno), a
the former President of Chile, Dr. Carlos Ibanez
Chilean Deputy of the Conservative Party, af-
del Campo, with regard to a plan for the estab-
filiated himself with Japanese activities.
lishment of a Japanese monopoly of the fishing
Moreno made a trip to the Uni ted States and
industry on the Chilean coast. This would have
traveled to Canada as a representative at the
been operated in connection with the Chilean
convention of the International Labor Organiza-
Government, but control of the various fishing
tion. It was indicated that Moreno would secure
zones and necessary equipment for handling this
information for the Japanese Government if given
project would rest primarily in Japanese hands.
an opportunity. He traveled on a diplomatic
This suggested plan was viewed with considerable
passport and visa because of his connection with
alarm since it was a clear demonstration that
the Chilean Government.
the Japanese were interested in securing access
Messages were dispatched from the Japanese
to the entire Chilean coastal area. It was be-
Embassy in Santiago, Chile, which reflected that
lieved that the Japanese had an ulterior motive
a person, presumably of Chilean nationality,
in presenting this plan and, consequently, it
known as "MO" would possibly go to the United
met with disfavor in Chile.
States. It is understood that on October 12,
It is said that Japanese interests contacted
1942, the Japanese authorities in Tokyo made a
various Chilean governmental officials with a
request that "MO" be asked to conduct a special
plan for the utilization of Faster Island (Isla
investigation in the United States in regard to
JULIO KINJIRO MATSUMOTO
KYUTARO TSUNEKAWA
JORGE YAMAMOTO
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH
LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 113
shipbuilding activities. It was pointed out
In connection with this work they traveled in
Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and Chile,
that this person should in particular endeavor
to obtain statistical data and information as to
and had in tended to travel to Bolivia, Peru,
lebor conditions and scientific developments in
Ecuador, Colombia, Panama, Mexico and the United
the shipbuilding industry.
States. It was also established that these in-
It is believed that the individual indicated
dividuals were authorized to negotiate contracts
as "MO" by the Japanese Government is in reality
for the Japanese Government. In their posses-
the afore-mentioned Chilean Deputy, Rafael Mo-
sion was complete information concerning manga-
reno Echevarria.
nese mines and possibilities in connection with
the development of this industry in the provinc-
Japanese Espionage
es of Atacama, Coquimbo and Antofagasta, Chile.
These individuals aiso possessed data concerning
Many Japanese residents in Chile have been
i tems needed by the Japanese Navy which might
involved in dealings which appeared to be con-
have been secured in South America. They had a
nected with espionage. It was reported that a
quantity of statistical information relating to
request was sent from Tokyo to Japanese Govern-
general mineral production and other data of an
ment officials in Santiago in July, 1942, asking
economic nature. It was noted that they had had
that a Japanese individual of Valparaiso, Chile,
dealings in connection with this work with a
cntact Naval officers and crew members of ships
German-Chilean individual, Walter Muller Hess.
touching that port with the objective of develop-
Miyasaki and Yacobori had been arrested a
ing some of the crew members on the ships travel-
few months before their attempted departure for
in. between Chile and the Uni ted States as espi-
having taken photographs of restricted areas in
onrge agents. It was indicated that the Japa-
Chile.
nese Government was willing to pay thirty thou-
In Chile, Miyasaki was associated with vari-
sand yen per arnum for the development of this
ous German elements and particularly with Hans
spy ring.
Borchers, the former German Consul General in
The Japanese in inlparaiso who was named to
New York City, who later came to Santiago. Mi-
develon this organiza jon was Takeshi Takenaka.
yasaki resided at Calle Valenzuela Castello 1578,
Tak naka also hás been known under the names of
Sant iago.
Tekeshi Takenaka and Takesho Takenoka. He was
On the night of July 2, 1942, a robbery was
born in Magano, Japan, April 6. 1s97, and came
perpetrated against the Cultural Attache in the
to Chile in June, 1919. He resided in Valpa-
United States Fmbassy in Santiago. It was de-
raiso, Chile, at Calle Brazil 1791. Takenaka,
termined that the leader in this robbery was
for many years, was a commission salesman for
Luis Alero Inostroza. On being questioned,
the Japanese firm Senda in Valparaiso. He &lso
Inostroza stated that this robbery had been
represented in Valparaiso the Sociedad Anonima
planned by Goro Miyasaki. Inostroza indicated
Comereial Mitsubishi-Chile. This firm was the
that he had worked for Miyasaki in the past at
representative in Chile for the Mitsubishi Bus-
Panama and in Peru and that he had attempted to
san Kaisha of Japan. After the break of rela-
secure papers and documents which would be of
tions between Chile and Japan, Takenaka lived
value to Japanese espionage agents. Inostroza
comparatively well without any apparent source
admitted that he hal robbed the Roumanian Lega-
of incame. He hal a wide acquaintance as a con-
tion at Lima, Peru, at the behest of Miyasaki
secuence of his years of commercial activity.
and had secured papers which Miyasaki desired.
Takenaka was a close friend of Akira Uye, a
It has been stated that Miyasaki believed
Japanese who formerly was employed at the office
the Cul tural Attache in Santiago to be connected
of the Compania Sud Ameri cana de Vapores (CSAV)
with United States Intelligence and that this
in Valparaiso as the official representative of
robbery was planned in order to attempt to se-
the Japanese N.Y.K. (Nippon Yusen Ka isha) Line.
cure documents which might be of value to Japa-
The activities of Uye have also been viewed with
nese agents. It is reported that at the time of
suspiclon. lHe was repatriated in September,
the robbery, Miyasaki told Inostroza to call
1943.
telephone No. 62961 in Santiago and ask for Ta-
Takenaka also associated with such German
keyasu. It was also maintained that he should
suspects as George Teipel and Harold Germer.
immediately proceed to Calle Larrain Gandarilla
There is no evidenee to show that Takenaka was
355. Santiago telephone No. 62961 was 1isted as
able to establish a spy ring or to effectively
engage in individual acts of espionage. He, too,
belonging to the Casa Hombo, Pasaje Matte 49, a
was repatriated in September, 1913.
location which has been considered as a probable
Goro Miyasaki, connected with the Compania
center of Japanese espionage activity. The own-
Chilena Oriental, has been considered to be one
er and manager of the Casa Hombo is Takeyasu
of the primary Japanese espionage operators in
Hombo.
Chile. le maintained a close association with
Propaganda
representatives of the Japanese Embassy.
on May 5, 1941, Miyasaki and Renich Yaco-
It is believed a director of Japanese propa-
bori (or Rynichi Yokoviri) were arrested in Ari-
ganda in Chile was Kazuo Kunetsuma, who was Sec-
ca, Chile, when attempting to leave Chile by way
retary of the Japanese Embassy in Santiago,
of Panagra Airlines. An examination revealed
Chile.
that these two individuals claimed to be mining
Another pro-Japanese propagandist is Profes-
experts. They had been making a mineral survey
sor Guillermo Martinez, a Chilean who was invit-
in South America for the Japanese firn of Mitsui.
ed by the Japanese to make a study of conditions
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH.LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 114
in Eastern Asia. He is pro-Fascist and was a
con tact man for the Japanese Embassy in Chile.
Martinez conducted a Japanese propaganda radio
program in Chile and has been employed also by
the Instituto de Cinematografica Éducativa de la
Universidad de Chile. The manager of this insti-
tution, Armando Rojas Castro, is also reported
as pro-Axis and as having been involved in the
distribution of Japanese propaganda in Chile.
Jorge Sanhuesa, a co-owner of the printing
establishment "Lathrop" in Santiago, is believed
to have printed much of the Japanese propaganda
material for Chile.
The propaganda fund of the Japanese in Chile
before the outbreak of the present war was said
to be one hundred thousand pesos per month, and
it was reported that immediately after the break
of relations by Chile the amount was increased
to one million pesos per month.
Japanese and German propaganda interests
utilized propaganda funds in an endeavor to se-
cure favorable newspaper comment in Chilean pub-
lications. This policy had been followed by the
Axis countries in Latin America for some years.
The Axis groups achieved this objective through
payments to individual journalists employed on
Chilean publications and through direct subsidy
payments to the newspapers themselves.
Available information indicates that the
following publications received funds from Japa-
nese interests in line with the above-described
policy:
El Pacifico
Arica
La Semana Internacional
Valparaiso
El Chileno
Santiago
Radio Expreso
Santiago
(now discontinued)
Veinte Naciones
Santiago
Nueva Edad
Santiago
Accion Chilena
Santiago
It has been further reported that Japanese
elements have been able to secure sympathetic
writers on the staffs of the following Chilean
publications:
La Opinion
Santiago
El Industrial
Antofagasta
El Diario Ilustrado
Santiago
La Hora
Santiago
Zig-Zag
Santiago
La Discusion
Chillan
SADAYOSHI NAKAYAMA,
JAPANESE NAVAL ATTACHE,
A number of Chilean journalists have been
SANTIAGO, CHILE.
suspected of being actively engaged in propa-
ganda and espionage activities for the Japanese
Guillermo Bobillier was employed by the
in Chile.
Associated Press in Chile. He has written Axis
Augusto Iglesias, who was employed on the
propaganda for the German "Diario Relampago,"
Santiago newspaper "La Opinion," has traveled
and has been suspected of cooperating with Japa-
extensively in Japan. Both he and his wife were
nese elements in espionage.
suspected of propaganda and espionage activities.
Juan de Luighi of the Santiago newspaper
Rodrigo Aburto also has been connected with
"La Hora," Julio Arriagada of the magazine "Zig-
Japanese propaganda. he was an intimate friend
Zag" and Reuben Perreira of the Santiago news-
of the daughter of the former German Ambassador
paper "El Imparcial" have been reported to be
to Bolivia, Wendler. He was also suspected in
sympathetic to Japanese in terests and to have
connection with Japanese espionage.
been utilized in the dissemination of Japanese
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 115
The Toyo News Agency in Santiago, Chile, was
affiliated with the Japanese Domei News Agency.
Toyo was active in disseminating Japanese propa-
ganda throughout Chile. Its activities were
similar to those of the German Transocean Serv-
1ce, the French Havastele Agency and the Italian
Stefani Agency. The chief of this organization
was a Chilean, Alfredo Larrazabel, and the man-
ager in Santiago was Lizandro Arriagado Urbina.
Arriagada is thought to have been a member of
the Association of Friends of Germany, and was
said to belong also to the Japanese propaganda
association, the Comite Chileno-Japones.
The license of the Toyo News Agency was
cancelled under the authority of the Security
Law during January, 1943.
The Comite Chileno-Japones (Kolkisai Bunka
Chinkokay) had approximately two hundred members
in Chile. It was founded by the former Japanese
Minister to Chile, Miyako, and was established
for the ostensible purpose of developing an in-
terest in Japanese culture. Actually it was
used as a means of infiltrating Chilean life.
This organization disseminated propaganda re-
celved from the Toyo News Agency, as well as
propaganda received from the Nazi propagandist,
Gustav Vierling, who was also associated with
Grman espionage in Chile. It was financed
largely by Japanese merchants in Chile and by
subsidies received from Tokyo through the Japa-
nese Embassy. Numerous professors of Chilean
SUSUMU MIYA/AKI
schools and colleges were associated with this
organization. The Chilean Senator, Maximiliano
Errazuriz, was at one time president of this in-
stitution. Errazuriz has been friendly with pro-
Axis interests and closely associated with Japa-
nese and Italian elements in Chile.
In 1913 when Chile broke relations with the
Axis, Reichichi Tanabe was president of this or
ganization and Abe Kaiko was treasurer. Both of
these men were implicated in Japanese espionage
work in Santiago.
In connection with their propaganda work in
Chile, the Japanese in 1939 commenced publica-
tion of the Japanese magazine called Revista
Nippon." This magazine was directed by Kichi-
matsu Shinya of the Nippon Trade Agency and
was closely associated with that agency. The
offices of the magazine were located at the Nip-
pon Trade Agency offices and it was printed at
the Imprenta Universo in Santiago.
Another Japanese propaganda organ was the
magazine "Mirando al Oriente." Its director was
a Chilean, Alberto Veloz Santa Cruz, wno is
known to be pro-Axis in sympathy, and is be-
lieved to have been implicated in espionage for
the Axis. Veloz Santa Cruz has been reported as
being a leader in the Chilean "Comite Pro Paz y
Libertad," an organization which has been uti-
KOZABURU TADA
lized as a front group for Axis interests. It
was active in 1913 in endeavors to prevent Chile
propaganda. Similarly the following individuals
from breaking ralations with the Axis, and indi-
on the staff of the Santiago newspaper "El Mer-
viduals prominent in this organization through-
curio" are believed to have collaborated in Japa-
out Chile attempted to secure support for a
nese propaganda endeavors: Rafael Malunda, Ar-
"Neutral Policy." Veloz Santa Cruz was also con-
mando Donoso, Garbarino Gallardo Nieto anl Mario
nected with the editorial staff of the pro-Axis
Vergara.
publication "Veinte Naciones."
JAPANESIMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 116
novelties but had thrown most of them into the
wastebasket.
Other propaganda publications of the Japa-
nese were mailed in large quantities to Chilean
governmental officials, officers of the Army
and Navy and political leaders of importance in
an endeavor to influence them toward a pro-
Japanese policy. Japanese propaganda material
was also sent to newspaper publishing companies
in Chile in the hope that it would be distribut-
ed through these channels. A Japanese propa-
ganda line in Chile was that Japan had no de-
signs on the Western Hemisphere and that the
Uni ted States was suffering tremendous losses
and was inadequate to defend Chile. It was then
pointed out that Chile, consequently, had no
good reason to adopt a pro-United States policy.
Jaspa Case
During February, 1943, a communication sent
to Candido Santidrian Castilla, Casilla 6101,
Santiago, revealed that the name of Francisco
Ortiz had been utilized as a "cover name" in
Buenos Aires. This communication further re-
quested a report from the "IWAI Co. to ONO" and
likewise from the "Pacific Commercial to Kaw-
aguch1."
Another letter was secured which was be-
ing sent to Ortiz in Buenos Aires from Santiago
ALBERTO VELOZ SANTA CRUZ
and bore the return address of Rodolfo Ibarra,
Galvez 131, Santiago. The intercepted letter
The following Chileans have published ar-
from Buenos Aires was subsequently picked up by
an unknown Japanese who was thought to be Akira
ticles in "Mirando al Oriente": Carlos de San-
Abe. Inquiries made at the address Galvez 131,
tos, Alejandro Gumucio, Hugo K. Sievers, R. Var-
Santiago, revealed that there was no one by the
gas S., Enrique M. Gamio, and Wilfredo Mayorga.
name of Ibarra living there.
The Japanese made some efforts at penetra-
It was learned that the Japanese manager of
tion through the operations of the Japanese Res1-
the Nambe1 Trading Company (Mi tsui) had asked
dent Center, Calle Carmen 431, Santiago. The
Francisco Ortiz if he would be willing to serve
ostensible purpose of this organization was the
as an intermediary for the transmission of cor-
spreading of Japanese cul ture and study of the
respondence from Chile to Nambe1 headquarters in
Japanese language. However, it is known that
Buenos Aires. Ortiz agreed to this with the
this organization was used as a cloak for sub-
stipulation that he be allowed to examine all
versive activities in Chile. After the break in
correspondence sent through him in order to see
relations between Chile and Japan, this organi-
that it was of a harmless nature. Thereafter,
zation is said to have functioned on a clandes-
he received as many as thirty pieces of corre-
tine basis at the residence of Sozan Miyoshi at
spondence a month. At the end of January, 1943,
Calle Lira 92. Miyoshi was active in various
he received correspondence from Chile which was
Japanese activities in Chile and is believed to
of national defense interest. He brought this
have been a director of the Japanese Overseas
to the attention of the Embassy in Buenos Aires.
Ministry. Takeyasu Hombo of La Casa Hombo was
Ortiz is a lawyer who served as Argentine
also actively associated with this group.
Consul in Tokyo, Japan, for about twenty years.
A daily news bulletin was prepared by indi-
At the time this case developed he was the legal
viduals associated with the Japanese Embassy and
adviser to the Nambei Trading Company in Buenos
distributed primarily among the Japanese colony
A1ras.
While investigation of this case was con-
in Santiago.
It was reported in 1943 that one Margot
tinuing, it was found that the photostats of the
Ander Fuhren de Wyss lectured throughout Chile
"Takeo Takano file" (Cia. Chilena Oriental),
under the auspices of the Japanese Cultural In-
when translated, showed that letters mailed to
Ozasa were to be sent in care of Enrique Olivos,
stitute.
Shortly after the severance of diplomatic
and those to Nakayama in care of Manuel Correa,
relations with the Axis in 1943, Comandante
address Post Office Box 2146, Santiago. On
Jorge Gana Eastman, then attached to the Quin-
spec ial occasions mail was to be sent to Sr.
tero, Chilean air base, received a bundle con-
Juan Fateban Montero, Post Office Box 2528, San-
taining approximately fifty copies of a pam-
tiago. This indicated then that the Japanese
phlet entitled "Los Nueve Heroes Japonesos del
were using cover names in both sending and re-
Pearl Harbor" published by Tallerez Graficos
ceiving correspondence.
"Artufo," Santiago, Chile. Gana advised that he
Takeo Ozasa and Kaname Nakayama were em-
had given one or two of the booklets away as
ployees of the Cia. Chilena Oriental and also
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 117
were believed to be employees of the Southern
Japanese officials in the Legation and the Japa-
Cotton Company whose headquarters are in Dallas,
nese leaders who were thought to be inimical to
Texas. The Post Off'ice Box 2146 was found to be
the welfare of Chile. It was agreed that there
registered under the name of Shirakata.
was to be no examination of the luggage and per-
Evidence available indicates that Motozo
sons of the officials, but the baggage of non-
Hattori was possibly implicated as the inter-
officials was to be examined. Details of the
mediary on Casilla 6101, and that he was using
baggage search were arranged by the Chilean For-
the services of a prostitute to actually with-
eign Office, the Swiss Foreign Office (which had
draw the correspondence. Hattori was known to
charge of the Japanese interests) and the Ameri-
have visited Akira Abe's home on many occasions
can Fmbassy. The baggage searched by Chilean
and &lso to have visited twice weekly the resi-
officials in the presence of Anericans revealed
dence of Itsuki Takada, the representative of
numerous photographs and magazines, which were
the Yokohama Specie Bank and dispenser of funds
withdrawn. In the trunk of Tatsuo Mizokoshi
for the Japanese Legat ion.
several books were found, inc luding an English-
1: was ascertained that a copy of "La Pren-
Spanish dictionary which was taken from him.
," Buenes Ai res, had been rece ived in Box 6101.
The repatriates departed from Santiago on
Thhis was later pieked up by a prostitute and
September 16, 1913, and arrived in Buenos Aires
ven t, ko Krwamura ot the Casn Taiho. I pon
on September 18. They left Buenos Aires on Sep-
Pe r ron.  tr srren in Iarmese, round
tember 21 and arrived in Montevideo the follow-
theppn  Kaehi. impli-
ing morning where they boarded the SS "Gripsholm."
cated Tovokei Seod t Hombo. 1t was a 1so
The "Gr1psholm" left Montevideo September 23 for
di se losad that Sonda was in contact with Kawa-
Mormugao, Portuguese Goa, India. Seventy-eight
guchi at Hombo's residence.
Japanese were repatriated in all, including
Post office Box G1ot was registered to Loren-
fourteen couples, twenty-nine single individuals
zo da Bove who has not resjded in Santiago for
and twenty-one children.
two vears and wiro no longer pays rental on the
to.N perm be tound by the name
Relegation
1 Cardido Sant1. (llo. A Candido San-
idrrén Teran was me roeited but he diselaimed
The relegation program of the Chilean Govern-
ull knowledge of su x. I was learned
ment was authorized in Law No. 7401 which was
(ar is son-In-law was Alb rto Veloz Santa Cruz.
passed December 31, 1942. This law dealt with
an aet ive Japanese propagatala agent who has sent
the external security of the Chilean State and
coded messa as to the Japanese Embassy in Buenos
provided for the relegation of Axis nationals
Ai ps thronh an ntermliary. It is therefore
for periods of six months to certain small towns
Lelreved thst Velo7 a11owed tis Japanese 1o use
for vigilance by the local police. The case of
his fa:her-in-las's name but changed his mater-
each individual was to be reviewed each six
nal name from Teran to Castillo.
months.
The tollowing Japanes, who were connected
The relegat ion of Axis nationals in Chile,
wi un this case, have been repauriated:
however, has not been effective. This is due to
the fact that i: was not applied to enough Axis
Takeo Ozasa
Takeo Takana
indiv1duals and because the program has not been
Kenosuke Kawaguehi
Kaname Nakayama
accompanied by severe measures for controlling
Teruo Miyak,
Fukunosuke Nomura
the movements of the relegees.
Yei Mamiya
Akira Abe
Chile has not established any type of in-
Susuki Nakatsuka
ko Kawamura
ternment approximating a concentration camp for
Itsuki Takada
Motozo Ilattori
dangerous Axis citizens. The relegation has
Yonosuke Ha war
Akira Lye
amounted merely to having & place of residence
Investigat ion ot the Southern Cotton Company,
established for an Axis naticnal other than his
with offlees in Dallas and Sew York City. re-
previous domicile. The regulations at the vari-
Vealed that this rirm had been controlled by
ous towns of relegation for watching the rele-
Toyo Menka Kaisha, Ltda., which was a subsidiary
gee's activities have not been uniform and, in
of Mi tsui in Tokyo. Although the company rec-
general, the only police measures have been to
ords disclosed payments to subjects Takeo ozasa
require the relegee to report to the office of
and kaname Naknyama in June of 1911, i1 was
the Nat ional Police once during the day.
found that there was no branch office in Santi-
a20.
At the present time the relegation program
This case has ramificat ions in other South
is stili ineffective. Sometimes the place of
American countries.
relegation is changed to sult the wishes of the
relegee. Reasons for this might be poor health,
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
finances, or political influence. There are
Repatriation
only twelve Japanese now known to be relegated.
In spite of the general laxity of government
After the severanee of relations between
control over the Japanese in Chile, available
Chile and Japan, the two countries arranged for
information indicates that they are not in a
an exchange: of their nationals. A repatriation
position to do any important damage to either
1ist was made up by the Chilean Government of
Chile or the United Nations.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 118
Chapter 11
ARGENTINA, PARAGUAY AND URUGUAY
ARGENTINA
BACKGROUND
Buenos Aires Horticulturalists' Association,
made up mainly of Japanese but which also in-
Population and Location
cludes a number of other nationalities, they
According to the most reliable estimates
have formed a unit composed exclusively of
available, the number of Japanese nationals and
Japanese members, known as the Nipar Club. All
individuals of Japanese descent (Nisei) in
of this tends to accentuate their racial dis-
Argentina now totals more than 7,000. Of this
tinction and keep them as a people apart. Pos-
number, about 4,000 are believed to be residing
sible recognition of this as an undesirable
in the Federal Capital, Buenos Aires. The
condition is to be noted in a recent statement
by a prominent Japanese urging young educated
remainder live in or close to the cities of
Japanese to mix more with Argentine youths.
Rosario, Cordoba, Mendoza, Santa Fe, Parana,
Further efforts are being made through the Japa-
Corrientes and Resistencia. They will be spoken
nese Christian Church which has two meeting
of as the Japanese colony, but this term should
places, one in Buenos Aires, and one in the town
not be taken to mean that they concentrate in
of Jose C. Paz. Chikara Tani is pastor. The
one vicinity, for even in Buenos Aires itself
church has about 63 members and 75 "friends" and
the Japanese, due to their various business
publishes 250 copies of its bulletin weekly.
enterprises, are scattered over the city.
The church sponsors young peoples' societies and
Recently there has been an increase in the
activities and generally seeks to make their
number of Japanese living in northeast Argentina.
race more acceptable to Argentina.
This is probably due to migration from Brazil in
order to escape the restrictions placed on the
Political Penetration
Japanese by the Brazilian Government.
Politically the Japanese recognize the fact
Argentina has witnessed a gradual expansion
that their status in Argentina is insecure in
in the Japanese population. There were but six
view of the present world situation. Japanese
Japanese in Argentina in 1905 and a similar num-
leaders admonished their people openly to live
ber of Chinese. The Chineese have not grown
as model citizens and give no provocation for
e1ther numerically or diplomatically. There are
restrictive measures. Editorials appearing in
only about 200 Chinese now in the country. The
the Japanese newspapers have referred to the
Japanese, however, in keeping with their numeri-
reputation of their people as law abiding.
cal superiority supported an embassy and a
Other editorials have fawned on the Argentine
number of consulates.
Government for its "neutrality" and justness in
The Research Bureau of the Japanese Foreign
its treatment of Japanese.
Office reflects 6,659 Japanese nationals regis-
Politically as well as socially, the Japa-
tered with the Japanese officials in Buenos
nese prior to the war had developed some influ-
Aires on 0ctober 1, 1938. 0f this number,
ence. Their gains in this direction have large-
4,828 were men and 1,831 were women. A majority
ly been obliterated as a consequence of the con-
of the men were of military age and most of the
flict.
women were of child-bearing age.
The Argentine break of diplomatic relations
with Axis countries on January 25, 1944, came as
Social Penetration
a surprise to many Japanese. It has been as-
As yet the Japanese in Argentina have not
cribed by them as due to North American pressure
amalgamated with the Argentine people. It also
and machinations rather than popular desire. It
appears that they have no particular desire to
seems apparent to observers that many Japanese
do so. The inherent racial differences present
do not believe this and are apprehens ive of
an initial obstacle to such a merger. The
further steps. They seem to believe, however,
activities of the Japanese in Argentina both
that the present administration in Argentina
from a business and social standpoint are
will continue in its "just" treatment of them.
centered among their own people. Three Japa-
Naturally they are fearful of any basic changes
nese newspapers circulating almost daily empha-
in government circles. Their present situation
size the relationship of the readers as Japa-
might be described as that of a colony tolerated
nese toward Argentines and Argentina. Most of
and largely unhampered but not secure.
the associations formed by the Japanese for
business and pleasure are made up exclusively
Diplomatic Relations
of Japanese and thus bring them into daily con-
tact only with one another. They even have
Argentina broke off diplomatic relations
their ow. entertainment park in Buenos Aires,
with Japan on January 25, 1944, and on March 27,
known as Burzaco Park. Japanese schools for
1945, declared a state of belligerency to exist.
children teach some subjects in the Japanese
The Japanese officials were confined to the Eden
language and use textbooks printed in Japanese.
Hotel, La Falda, Argentina. Their diplomatic
Even within a business organization like the
affairs were placed in the hands of the Swiss
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.97)
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
PANAMA CANAL 3.381 MILES
NEW YORK 5207 MILES
E R U
LONDON 6918 MILES
BERIIN 7376 MILES
BOLI
PARAGUAY
Rio de Janeiro
Jujuy
E
TOKYO 11,400 MILES
Cordoba
Santa Fe
RIO DE JANEIRO 1218 MILES
Mendoze
Rosario
T
BUENOS
CAPETOWN 4.270 MILES
AIRES
La Plata
H
Bahia Blanca
NOTE
R
Argentina is the second largest country in South
Americe, having a population of 13,666,686 in-
Comodoro
Rivadavia
habitants which are almost entirely of European
origin. It ranks as one of the greatest agricultural
nations and is referred to as the "bread basket"
of the world. The capital, Buenos Aires, ranks
sixth in size among cities of the world.
Key
AIR
DISTANCES
FBI

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 120
Legation in Buenos Aires on February 8, 1944.
the Central Bank of Argentina, though denials
Un February 19, 1944, a Japanese Section of
have been made by bank officials. In October
the Swiss Legation was formed in Buenos Aires to
and December, 1943, the company purchased two
handle Japanese affairs. Ichibel Kido, a former
stock farms of considerable size, and advertised
member of the Japanese Embassy was assigned to
for heal thy young Japanese to colonize them.
work in this unit.
At the end of 1943, the company published a
statement showing it had a paid-up capital of
COMMERCE
500,000 pesos and outstanding loans amounting
A number of leading Japanese importing and
to 822,800 pesos, including 604,600 pesos to 168
exporting firms have branches or representatives
Japanese and 218,200 pesos to 239 Argentines.
in Argentina. The war has reduced business
The statement also showed that remittances were
activity of these firms to a point where many
made to Japan totaling over 233,000 pesos in
499 cases.
have suspended operations or closed completely.
The activities of this company in the
The majority of the Japanese in Argentina are
proprietors or employees of laundry and cleaning
financial field have afforded it ample oppor-
tunity to obtain funds for subversive purposes.
establishments or engaged in flower raising and
Al though it is known that the Japanese Embassy
market gardening. Japanese manufacturing 1s
restricted to a silk factory and a button fac-
in mid-1y43 had small deposits in Argentine
tory. It is estimated that the total value of
banks for the salaries of its personnel, as well
Japanese investment in bus iness and manufac-
as other purposes, it appears likely that Anan
turing in Argentina 1s 20,000,000 pesos,
lent money to the Japanese Government for this
purpose. It has been alleged that Anan sub-
($5,000,000.00 U. S. currency).
sidized the magazine "Oriente Y Occident, "possi-
The opening of the Anan Trust Company on
bly under arrangements made with the Japanese
November 9, 1942, marked a distinct forward
Embassy. The company also advertised it would
step taken by the Japanese in assisting their
help finance the repatriation of Japanese. Re-
own business efforts in Argentina. It is of-
ports have also been received indicating that it
ficially known in Spanish as the Compania Anan
assisted in the financing of Japanese espionage
Credito y Finanzas Sociedad Anonima and in Japa-
activities. It has been siated that Sadao Ando
nese as the Anan Shintaku Kabushiki Kaisha. The
himself headed a group of Japanese engaging in
firm is located in Buenos Aires. The promoter
intelligence work, and several prominent members
and prestdent is Sadao Ando, a prominent Japa-
of the Japanese colony were named as his ass ist-
nese fifty years of age who has been in Argen-
ants.
tina since l918. He noted in the original pros-
In November, 1943, Ando established a so-
pectus of the company issued in uctober, 1942,
called cul tural institute, the Instituto Cultural
that although the time seemed hazardous for such
Sadao Ando, which offered to assist in the
&n undertaking the need was great, since credits
education of young Japanese.
were not readily available to Japanese people in
In addition to the activities above named,
Argentine banking, and the Yokahama Specie Bank
Ando founded the Argentine Flowered Pottery
had ceased to operate effectively. In this
Works (Cia. Decoradora Argentina de Loza y
prospectus, he also predicted the eventual re-
Porcelena) in Buenos A1res, in 1939, and the
placement of British and American economy in
Ogura Pearl Button Factory(Ogura Y Cia., Fabrica
Argentina, as well as control of Argentine econ-
de Botones de Nacar) in Temperley, Province of
omy, through a Japanese hierarchy headed by the
Buenos Aires, in 1941. He is also the owner of
Japanese Embassy with the assistance of Japa-
the independent import-export house, S. Ando y
nese companies and banks.
Cia.
The charter of the Anan Trust Company shows
Mitsubishi Argentina (Mitsubishi Shoji
that it was authorized by the Argentine Govern-
Kaisha Ltd.) is a subsidiary of one of Japan's
ment under date of october 6, 1942, to perform
large business firms. The Buenos Aires branch
all types of financial transactions except
was managed from 1937 to 1941 by Takeo Nishizawa,
accepting funds for deposit, including the buy-
who arrived from the New York City branch of
ing, selling and transfer of foreign exchange
Mitsubishi. Just prior to the outbreak of the
and money.
war in 1341, Ichij1 Kuribayashi became manager,
This company makes the Japanese colony of
coming to Buenos Aires from the Seattle, Wash-
Argentina self-sufficient in matters of financ-
ington, branch office. The local firm was
ing and investment, with the exception, as
capitalized at 50,000 pesos, shareholders being
previously noted, of being able to place money
registered as follows: Shigeo Okubo, 25,000
on deposit. The company was capitalized at
pesos; Takeo Nishizewa, 20,000 pesos; Itaro
500,000 pesos, shares ful1y paid up; and the
Amari, 5,000 pesos.
principal shareholders alledgedly include a
Before the beginning of the Pacific war the
number of the leading Japanese companies in
business of Mitsubishi Argentina consisted of
Buenos Aires having funds which they were un-
import and export trade in conjunction with the
able to use otherwise. In January, 1y43, the
parent firm in Japan. As a result of the war
Anan Trust Company offered to act as medium for
this business was, of course, suspended. In
the transmission by cable of amounts up to 500
October, 1943, Nishizawa left for Japan with a
pesos monthly per person for Japanese wishing to
group of Japanese being repatriated. On Oct-
send money to Japan. There are indications
ober 1, 1943, the firm officially announced that
that these transactions were effected through
it would liguidate and close its office at
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.95)
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
STRATEGIC LOCATION IN SOUTH AMERICA
VENEZUELA
IOLDMBIA
ECUADOR
R
A
Z
PARAGUAY
Rio De Janiero
Railroads
Controlled
Area
1
Santiago
URUCUAY
N
Buent Anes?
Montevideo
E
G
NOTE
R
Buenos Aires, Argentina, because of it s strategic
A
location on the Rio de la Plata River with its
widespread tributaries and Argentina's powerful
position as compared to its neighbors, controls in
varying deyrees the foreign commerce of Para-
guay, Bolivia, southern Brazil, U-uguay and Chile.
The railroads running from Buenos Aires to San-
tiago, Chile and La Paz, Bolivia are also
instruments of this control.
FB

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 122
Diagonal Norte 680 as of October 15, with Ichij1
The company has two Japanese-built trawlers,
Kuribayashi remaining as resident representative
the "President Mitre" of 480 tons and the "Presi-
of the parent firm in Japan, and handling the
dent Roca" of 450 tons, which fish in the Plata
remaining business at his residence, Austria
River and the Atlantic between Buenos Aires and
2656, 2nd Floor.
Mar del Plata. For a time Japanese were em-
It has been frequently reported that members
ployed among the crew to the limit allowed by
of this firm in Argentina were engaged in espio-
Argentine law.
nage activity, but there is no known evidence to
Unconfirmed reports have been received
confirm these reports. It seems likely that be-
of clandestine activities of these two ships,
cause of Nishizawa's former residence in New
such as refueling of German submarines in the
York and Kuribayashi's on the west coast of the
South Atlantic and the use of transmitters for
United States, where he was Mitsubishi repre-
conveying intelligence information to Japan.
sentative, these two, at least, were used by the
At present the crews are completely Argentine
Embassy in reading and digesting the pertinent
due to a ruling of the Argentine Prefectura
contents of American publications for trans-
Maritima prohibiting foreign-born crew members,
mittal to Japan.
even those possessing Argentine citizenship. It
Iwai Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad
is understood, however, that Japanese perform
Limitada, which ostensibly closed its office at
repair work on the ships when they are in port.
25 de Mayo 145 on February 29, 1944, is a branch
It is reported that present costs of operation
of the parent Japanese firm, which i's an impor-
of the ships are so high that the company is
tant element in Japanese economic expansion. It
barely breaking even financially.
was organized in August, 1941, with a fixed
Kingo Kawai, one of the original partners
capital of 70,000 pesos which was divided as
in the company and later a director of the
follows: Sukeye Asaya, 40,000; Hiroshi Isawa,
corporation, is prominent in the Japanese colo-
10,000; Daizaburo Suematsu, 10,000; Kenkichi
ny and was formerly President of the Japanese
Suda, 20,000. The purpose of the firm as stated
Association of Argentina. He has been fre-
in the articles of organization is the importa-
quently reported as active in 'Japanese intelli-
tion of articles from Japan such as celluloid,
gence activities but investigation to date has
textiles and chemical products, and the expor-
not revealed specific activities of this nature
tation of prime materials such as wool,minerals,
on his part. Kawai resides at 01leros 2156,
etc. However, the firm was not in operation
Belgrano, Buenos Aires. He was arrested by
long, before the war stopped its trade.
Argentine Federal Police on February 8, 1944,
Numerous unconfirmed reports have been re-
charged with espionage activities and sub-
ceived of espionage activities on the part of
sequently released.
the members of this firm. It has been stated
Antonio Jose Silva de Souza, now 82 years of
that Asaya was active in obtaining intelligence
age, has been closely connected with Japanese in
information of an economic nature and that in
Argentina. For many years he was passenger
connection with this work he has had consider-
agent for the Osaka Shosen Kaisha steamship line
able contact with a German named Heinrich Vol-
(0.S.K.) at Buenos Aires, but was discharged as
berg who was repatriated on the SS Rio jachal,
a result of cessation of branch business since
July 12, 1944. Suematsu and Isawa, who share an
the start of the war. He has also evidently
apartment at Avenida 9 de July 885, have been
been active as purchasing agent for Japanese
reported as working together in the collecting
firms having no representative in Argentina, a
business from which he has evidently obtained
of intelligence information. In 1942 Kenkichi
Suda retired from the firm and transferred his
considerable profit. De Souza has consistently
stock to Suematsu. A message sent to Tokyo by
shown the strongest kind of pro-Japanese feeling
the Japanese Embassy on May 26, 1942, stated
and has been active in Japanese propaganda
that Suda had been added to the Japanese Em-
activities.
At the end of 1943, De Souza sent a cable to
bassy staff to work on South American research
former President Murata of O.S.K. wishing the
and that Isawa had been added to the staff to
latter a Happy New Year and "everlasting success
aid in United States research. It is inter-
your hazardous delicate mission for our beloved
esting to note that Isawa has spent some time
country and cause." Murata was also former
in the Uni ted States.
communications minister in the Japanese cabinet.
Compania Argentina Comercial e Industrial de
Pesqueria is a locally owned and operated deep-
Associations
sea fishing company in which some Japanese are
financially interested and which formerly em-
There are a large number of Japanese socie-
ployed Japanese as part of the crews of its two
ties and organizations in Argentina organized
vessels. It was originally formed as a limited
for different reasons such as business, social,
liability partnership in which the following
and recreational. Chief among them is the
owned equal shares: Dr. Romulo S. Naon; Domingo
Japanese Association of Argentina, with head-
Selva; Dr. Luis del Corral; Kingo Kawai; and
quarters in Buenos Aires. In a pamphlet pub-
Chiyoma Twamoto. In a reorganization in 1941
lished by this organization its purposes are
the business was incorporated with a subscribed
reflected as being: Improvement of business;
capital of 1,700,000 pesos. The former partners
betterment of social relations among Japanese
became officers of the corporation, Dr. Naon
in Argentina and increasing their general wel-
acting as First President, and other individuals
fare; aids and charities; moral cul ture; and
bought shares of stock.
physical culture. On September 1, 1944, the
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
PRINCIPAL CITIES
American Owned Leed Mine
Located Near Here
LA QUIACA
Important Bordertown
720
Suger Refinery
Shipping Port
CORDOBA
Cordobe National
Observatory
MENDOZA
GUENOS AIRES
PLATA
Metropolis
Grain Elevetors
Wine
Mest Packing Plants
A
RGENTINA, second largest of the South
American countries, was colonized by the
Spaniards in the early l6th century. The first
settlement was Puerto de Santa Maria del Buen
Aire (Port of Santa Maria of the Good Air)
now Buenos Aires. It was founded by Pedro de
Mendoza in December, 1535. The northwestern
COMODORO RIVADAVIA
territory of Argentina was being settled by peo-
ple from the Spanish Cultural Center of Lima,
Peru, following the Inca Road to the southeast-
ern outpost of the Inca Empire near Tucuman.
Today, though not producing the fabulous silver
wealth thought to exist there by the Spaniards,
01
Argentina is the most progressive and wealthy
country in the South American continent. It
boasts of the sixth largest metropolis in the
world, Buenos Aires, which is remarkably mod-
ern in every aspect.

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 124
Association had roughly 1,500 members. Its
while keeping themselves in the background.
organization is divided into several comaittees
A third large business association, the Japa-
on athletic activities, entertainment, etc. In
nese Laundry and Cleaners Trade Association
addition, the Association holds liaison con-
(Nipponjin Senshoku Sentaku Kumiai) suspended
ferences for officers of similar Japanese Asso-
operations April 22, 1944, as a result of the
ciations of other cities, such as Cordoba,
international situation, after fifteen years of
Santa Fe, Rosario and Mendoza, thus coordinat-
existence.
ing their efforts throughout the country. Since
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
the break in diplomatic relations, the Associa-
Subversive activities in Argentina among
tion has also been carrying on some activities
the Japanese have followed a pattern similar to
formerly handled by the consulate, such as the
the procedure used by them in other Latin Amer
registration of marriages, and general records.
ican countries. Because of their numbers and
The words spoken by the retiring President,
relatively prosperous business endeavors greater
Ichiku Kuribayashi, on that occasion are of
efforts to aid Japan have been made by the Japa-
some interest: "...In choosing directors for
nese in Argentina than in other South American
this year we tried to pick men with firm roots
nations where conditions are not so favorable.
in this country, with whom we may expect to pros-
However, they have accomplished very little.
per, rather than company representatives who due
The Japanese Embassy fostered the gathering
to the change in the international situation
of intelligence information about the United
will have to return to Japan in case there is
States and served as the guiding hand for these
an exchange ship.........I have talked with the
operations.
Ambassador and the Consul and reported to them
A specific example of this is to be found
regarding the formation of the new board of
in a communication sent on May 26, 1942, from
directors. They both said that they looked to
Buenos Aires to Tokyo. It appeared to have
the Japanese Association of Argentina to be the
been prepared by some official of the Japanese
nucleus of the Japanese community, and to its
Embassy. The message is as follows:
strenuous efforts to tide over these difficult
"Various studies are being made of the
times."
proper way of establishing an organization for
The Japanese Chamber of Commerce, founded
research on conditions in the United States.
January 1, 1938, closed on January 31, 1944.
In view of the fact that there has been a sup-
During the period it operated this organization
pression of fifth-column activities and an in-
rendered considerable service to Japanese busi-
vigoration of pro-Anglo-American elements, we
ness men.
are afraid numerous merchants going in and out
One of the largest of Japanese business
of this office would arouse public criticism.
associations in Argentina is the River Plate
Since the beginning of the war we have added
Market Gardeners Association, in Japanese kmown
six persons to the staff to aid in United
as Ginkahan Engeiogyo Kumiai Yugen Sekinen.
States research: Mitsui, Yoshida; Asana, Miya-
This organization was founded May 21, 1940, for
kawa; Iwai, Izawa; Okura, Tanabe; Shosen, Ogawa;
the purpose of organizing and assisting Japanese
Kanematsu, Suzuki. Moreover, Suda of Iwai and
market gardeners. It now has 257 members, two
Fujii of the Otochu have been working on South
offices and a total in assets of 198,852 pesos.
American research. I have always had an under-
Kurajiro Ishikawa is President.
standing with the proper heads of the branch
Another important business organization for
offices. These eight men are now working on
the Japanese is the Buenos Aires Horticul tural-
secret materials and it is again necessary to
ists Association, called in Japanese Buenos
take over employees from private businesses for
Aires Nanaki Sangyo Kumiai Yugen Sekinin. Mem-
office work. I would like to appoint these
bership is not limited to Japanese but they pre-
eight persons to the positions of Shokutaku.
dominate. It operates several large flower
Please contact and reply by wire. Now among the
markets in and around Buenos Aires. Established
heads of the branch offices there are-those who
in May, 1941, the organization has grown rapidly.
have lived in the United States. They are to be
Between May, 1943, and May, 1944, the number of
used in digesting English and American news-
flower businesses registered with the Associa-
papers and magazines. -___-"
tion increased from 1,493 to 1,900. At present
From this message, it seems clear that eight
it is reported to have capital amounting to
Japanese were being used to work on materials,
80,200 pesos. Within this association the Japa-
probably secret, six in connection with the
nese members have organized another for them-
United States and two on South American re-
selves known as the "Nipar Club." An inter-
search. It is stated that an understanding was
esting step was recently taken by the Japanese
had with the heads in Buenos Aires of the vari-
members of the Association when new officers
ous branch firms named, evidently an understand-
were elected. Al though Japanese far outnumber
ing that these men might be used on other than
members of Latin blood, five among the latter
firm business. The sender also states he would
were elected to officers' positions, including
like to appoint these eight men to the position
that of President, while eight Japanese were al-
of "shokutaku," which is an official title for a
so elected. However, a Secretariat of four Japa-
specialist attached to a diplomatic mission who
nese, with one Argentine as figurehead was
is not a member of the regular foreign service
formed to carry out much of the business activi-
staff. He then asks that a contact be made and
ty while the elected officers were not meeting.
a reply wire, which is taken to mean that per-
In this way, the Japanese managed to keep strong
mission for these appointments should be ob-
control over the Horticulturalists Association
tained from the parent companies in Japan. The
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 125
sender goes on to say that several heads of
to fill the three newspapers. Editorials
branch Japanese firms in Argentina have lived in
originally in both Japanese and Spanish-and
the United States and are to be used in di-
later only in Spanish made a noticeable effort
gesting English and American newspapers and
to laud the Argentine Government in an attempt
magazines. Presumably the fact that they had
to gain favor. The newspapers also acted as
been in the United States would better enable
mouthpieces for the Japanese Embassy, publishing
these men to evaluate the information.
Japanese Embassy commmiques.
Seven of the eight named Japanese have been
Prior to the rupture of diplomatic relations
identified as follows:
the Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires published
Komazo Yoshida of the Nambei firm (Mitsui
a daily mimeographed news bulletin in Spanish
representative);
and Japanese for distribution to important
Yoshio Miyakawa of Asano Bussan firm;
members of the Japanese community. Publication
Hiroshi Izawa and Kenkichi Suda of Iwai
of this bulletin ceased, however, after the
Argentine firm;
break in relat ions on January 25, 1914.
Kenzo Tanabe of Okura & Company;
There was one Japanese printing shop in
Kiichiro Suzuki of Kanematsu Rioplatense
Argentina, the Nippon Ib, located at Santiago
Keisaburo Fujii of C. I toh Co. Ltd.
del Estero 975, Buenos Aires. The owner is
Ogawa of Shosen is believed to be Isamu
Minoru Kitigawa, reportedly active in the Black
Ogawa of the shipping line osaka Shosen Kabush-
Dragon Society.
tki Kaisha.
Of considerable importance in the field of
Invest igat ion of several of these individu-
Japanese propaganda in Argentina has been the
a ls showed that prior to tb break in diplomat ic
magazine "Oriente y Occidente." It was founded
re lat ions with the Axis, they went da ily t o the
May 1, 1939, by Dr. Albino Pugnalin, former
Japanese Embassy at regular working hours.
Argentine Ambassador to Tokyo. Pugnalin, a
They were often seen carrying periodicals into
Doctor of Laws, has acted in the capacity of
'he Embassy as though their work had to do with
legal adviser to the Japanese Embassy. He was
such material. It is believed t he results of
the ostensible owner and manager, although he
th ir researeh may have been transmitted to
was assisted in the latter by his brother, Ario
dapan by radio messages in Japanese diplomatic
V. Pugnalin. The magazine was published at
code which the Embassy in Buenos Aires was
Esmeralda 1394 until the break in Argentine-
permitted to send prior to January 25, 1911.
Japanese relations, but most of the business in
connection with it was carried on in Dr. Pug-
Propaganda
nalin's office at Corrientes 330. The real
force behind it appeared to be the Japanese
Three Japanese language newspapers have
Embassy at the same address, although Pugnalin
been pub lished in Buenos Aires. They were
appears to be capable and is believed to have
known as:
had a free hand in the policy of the publica-
tion.
Tit le
Subtitle
Age
This magazine appeared monthly and each
issue cons isted of about 100 pages in the Span-
Diaria Nan-A
Diar io Japones en la
8 years
ish language. It was a digest of articles
Argent ina
cleverly put together for propaganda purposes.
E1 Argent in
Not ie iar io Argent ino
21 years
The oriental part of the magaz ine was represent-
ed largely by articles written by Japanese in
Djijo
Argentina. These articles did not contain
El Nichia
Diario Nipon de
11 years
strong political vi ws but presented Japan as
Djidj i
Buenos Aires
kind and inoffensive, a country beautiful in its
The addresses of these newspapers and the ir
art, customs, culture and spirit. The occi-
aliters were as tollows:
dental part of the magazine consisted in part of
articles of a pro-Axis nature written by Argen-
TITIE
ADDRESS
EDITOR
tine nationalis: figures and in part of artic les
Diario Nan-A
Mexico 2011
T. Shintaku
taken from American publications placing United
El Argent in Djijo
Uspullata 981
T. Midzumo
States policy or activities in a bad light. In
Fl Nichia Djidji
Me Linene 3121
Y. S. Niimura
this way, the tendeney was to create an atmos-
Each newspaper appeared daily except Mondays
phere of sympathy, interest and admiration for
and hol idays and the subseription rate for each
Japan, while the United States and other Allied
was the same, 2.50 pesos per month ($0.62 1/2
nations were shown as aggressive and offensive.
i S) . Copies were sent to Japanese readers in
The magazine sold for fifty centavos (about
other countries as well as to those in Argentina.
12 1/2 cents US) per copy and had a paid circu-
Advert is ing was carried in them by all leading
lation of about 1,800. In addition, about 3,000
Japanese f'irms and some foreign firms and indi-
copies were distributed throughout Argentina
v idua ls.
without charge, and perhaps 1,200 copies were
The newspapers carried Axis news or news
issued directly by the Japanese Embassy to mem-
from Allied sources twisted to fit the Axis
bers of the Japanese colony in Buenos Aires.
point of view. A1though since January 28, 1944,
The magazine was subs idized by Japanese inter-
commercial cable news from Japan has not been
ests, and while publication has been suspended
permitted, Japanese Government news agencies
since the break in Argentine-Japanese relations,
broadcast by short wave, and this source was
Dr. Pugnalin still maintains the office at
picked up on the radio by each paper and used
Corrientes 330 with a staff of assistants.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 126
Another agency of Japanese propaganda in
nationalist organizations. He later joined one
Argentina was the Japan Tourist Bureau, former-
of the latter, the Alianza Libertadora Nacional-
ly located at Florida 746, Buenos Aires. Inter-
ista, but always kept up his membership in the
cepted correspondence from the main office in
Chilean nationalist organization in Santiago.
Japan gives a picture of this organization for
In Buenos Aires he tried to organize Chilean
the Japanese fiscal year 1941 and shows that it
nationalists into a group called "Los Condores
was primarily interested in propaganda. Offices
de Chile." This project he apparently abandoned
of the organization were set up throughout the
before completion.
world, operating on funds received almost entire-
Alberto Veloz Santa Cruz, an older man
1y from the Japanese Government. Propaganda
reportedly born in Tokyo and res ident there for
accounted for more than half of the total appro-
eight years, was in touch with Japanese in
priation equivalent to $370,000 (US) for the
Chile. There is cons iderable evidence indi-
whole organization that year. More than one-
cat ing that he published a clandestine pamph-
half of this propaganda appropriation went for
let entitled, "L os Condores de Chile" in
printed matter, motion pictures and advertis ing.
Sant iago during 1943, with Japanese financia1
Another propaga la activity of the Tourist
assistance. This pamphlet was marked by its
Bureau was inviting pers ons from foreign coun-
anti-United States and anti-British propaganda
tries to visit Japan with expenses paid. With
and its attacks on the Chilean Government ad-
regard to the latter point, the Buenos Aires
ministration of that time. This administration
office manager, Tateo Tsutsumi, in 1941 stated
had just broken relations with the Axis coun-
his desire to have artists and literary and news
tries.
men invited so that he might obtain their collab-
oration, and emphasized the importance of in-
Considerable correspondence between Veloz in
viting Nisei (second generation Japanese born
Santiago and Carlos Santa Cruz in late 1942 and
in Argentina) students to increase their love
a large part of 1943 shows that these two acted
for Japan.
as mail intermediaries for the Japanese. Each
After December, 1941, activities of the
used several different addresses and names for
Tourist Bureau office in Buenos Aires were not
the receipt of letters. They were dependent on
very apparent other than the furnishing of
the Japanese for economic support. Their corre-
propaganda window displays and exhibits of Japa-
spondence also dealt with administrative mat-
nese art. It is believed, however, that the
ters of the nationalist groups in both coun-
Bureau was connected with the magaz ine "Oriente
tries and shows their efforts to bring them
y Occidente." By early 1913 the office was in
closer together in the fight to maintain Chile
the charge of Take Ehara, formerly a secretary.
and Argentina on a "strict neutrality" basis
In October, 1943, the Japan Tourist Bureau
thereby counteracting United States influence.
office amalgamated with the Toa Travel Bureau
Carlos Santa Cruz mailed a harmless appearing
to form a new agency known as the Toa Communi-
letter dated July 21, 1943, to a Santiago ad-
cations Company (Toa Kotsu Sha). The latter
dress which would eventually place it in the
set up an office at 25 de Mayo 145, under the
hands of his cous in, Alberto Veloz. Between
management of Rokuro Shimizu, assisted by Take
the lining and outer wall of the envelope he
Ehara. Since March 1, 1944, no activity on the
had placed a strip of very thin paper carrying
part of this agency has been reported.
a message which contained instructions for
returning to Japan and requests for United
Espionage
States newspapers, magazines, maps, and for a
report on the course of a certain ship.
Tomiya Koseki and Shozo Murai
Carlos Santa Cruz also corresponded with
Tomiya Koseki, a Secretary of the former
his mother, Senora Luz Poblete Ortega de Santa
Japanese Embassy in Buenos Aires, has been re-
Cruz, Number 82, Calle Rodolfo Phillippe,
ported as one of the co-workers in Japanese
Santiago, Chile. It has been reported that she
intelligence activities, with Shozo Murai, Japa-
acted as mail intermediary for the Japanese in
nese Civil Attache. Investigation has disclosed
Santiago. She went by train to Buenos Aires in
a connection between Murai and Chilean and
March, 1943, and returned to Chile on April 6.
Argentine nationalist elements in Argentina. It
It was also reported that on this trip she
was developed that a 24 year-old Chilean named
carried Japanese correspondence. It is noted
Carlos Santa Cruz Poblete was employed by Murai
that while in the Argentine capital she and her
as an espionage agent at 8. salary of 500 Argen-
son once dined with Shozo Murai.
tine pes os per month. Before coming to Buenos
Alberto Veloz also made the train trip from
Aires in March, 1942, Santa Cruz had been an ac-
Santiago to Buenos Aires on July 3, 1943, re-
tive member of the Chilean Union Nacionalista
turning twelve days later. While in the latter
and left Chile as correspondent of the national-
city he is said to have talked with the Japa-
ist publication "Veinte Naciones" and contribu-
nese Murai and it is believed he may have car-
tor to the Japanese propaganda magazine "Mirando
ried correspondence. Another Chilean national-
al Oeste." These two periodicals were edited by
1st, Manuel Mayo Bodelon, was in Buenos Aires
Santa Cruz's cousin in Santiago, Alberto Veloz
from June 19 to July 1, 1943. He was in con-
Santa Cruz. On arrival in Buenos Aires, Carlos
tact with Carlos Santa Cruz during that time
Santa Cruz obtained employment with the national
and 1t is believed Murai gave the latter 300
ist newspaper "Crisol," Calle Piedras 338, and
pesos to pay his expenses. Mayo Bodelon al-
became friendly with its nationalist director,
legedly carried letters for the Japanese on his
Enrique Oses, and other members of Argent ine
return to Chile.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.96)
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
JAPANESE INTELLIGENCE SERVICE
TADAO KUDO
REPORTED HEAD OF SOUTH
AMERICAN SECRET INTELLIGENCE
DIPLOMATIC PASSPORT NO. 0066166
JAPANESE
GERMAN
ACTIVITIES
LIAISON
EMBASSY
LIAISON
ACTIVITIES
IN ARSENTINA
IN ARGENTINA
Todeo
Kingo
Dr.
Waheln
Ara
Kavn
Burmeister
Mabbech
Itaro
MILITARY
COMMERCIAL
SUBVERSIVE
SECRET SERVICE
Amen
ESPIONAGE
INTELLIGENCE
ACTIVITIES
Col Carl Toshoharu Susul
Masao Tsuda
Keuchi Yesunage
Tadeo Kudo
A
REPORTED MEAD
Tomigro Koseki
Yoshic Nabarmure
Correspoadence
B. Diplometic Pouch
And Radio
BRAZIL
JAPANESE FIRMS AND INSTITUTIONS
PARASUMT
FIRMS
INSTITUTIONS
Domei News Agency
Instituto Cultural Argentina Japones
Mitsubishi Company
Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai
Osake Syosen Kaisya Steamship Company
Asociacion De Estudios Japoneses
Nambei Trading Company
Asociacion Japonesa En La Argentina
ARGENTINA
Cacip Fishing Company
Oficina Del Turismo Del Japon
Iwai & Company
Oriental Cotton Wool Company
ALL JAPANESE FIRMS AND INSTITUTIONS
ARE KNOWN TO BE UTILIZED BY THE
JAPANESE INTELLIGENCE SERVICE

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 128
Regarding espionage work performed by Carlos
intelligence nature. Gravet accepted the pro-
Santa Cruz for the Japanese, it appears that he
posal. Although it is not clearly established
frequented port areas where he gathered informa-
that he knew the information was for the Japa-
tion on Allied shipping, particularly as to the
nese, it was known by Gravet that it would be
names, characteristics, armament, cargo and
for an Axis country. Details and instructions
destination of ships. A close friend of his,
were then explained to Gravet by Alcazar de
24 year-old Chilean born Jose Augusto Rabert y
Velasco and his secretary, Celestino Moreno.
Pape, is believed to have assisted Santa Cruz
Gravet was to proceed to Guatemala by way
In obtaining this type of information. Rabert
of Buenos Aires. In the latter city he would be
y Pape resided at Calle Brandsen 2748, Sarandi,
contacted upon arrival by an individual who
Province of Buenos Aires, and received mail
would advance from $2,500 to $5,000 and he would
addressed to him there which was intended to
then proceed to Guatemela where more money would
reach Carlos Santa Cruz.
be paid him if he had received less than $5,000.
Another nationalist friend of Santa Cruz,
In Guatemala Gravet was able to contact Julio
Fernando Garcia Della Costa, acted as a mail
Urrutia, who had by that time returned to his
intermediary, receiving letters addressed to
own country, and offer up to $5,000 a month for
him at Piedras 338, Buenos Aires, and perhaps
use of the Guatemalan diplomatic pouch in
at his home, Sarandi 303, San Isidro, Province
sending correspondence between Guatemala and
of Buenos Aires, which he placed in Santa Cruz's
both Spain and Portugal. This would give a safe
hands. Garcia Della Costa is editor of "Crisol,"
means of communicating inforration from Guate-
previously mentioned as employer of Santa Cruz.
mala and of sending instructions to Gravet.
On March 5, 1944, Carlos Santa Cruz was
Letters Gravet might send to Spain were to be
arrested by Argentine Federal Police for espio-
sent in two envelopes, the outer addressed to
nage activity. His associate, Rabert y Pape,
Rosas Bardon of the diplomatic bag department,
was arrested April 24 on the same charge.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Madrid, and the
inner one to Celestino Moreno. He was also to
Henri Catherin Gravet
look for a wireless operator, to whom he might
offer $1,000 a month; on obtaining one, $5,000
In this case Japanese intelligence agents
would be sent him to purchase a transmitter. In
sought to send a European to the Western Hemi-
addition, three addresses in Spain were supplied
sphere as an espionage agent to report to them
to which he could write or send cables by
by way of Spain in letters, cables and clan-
ordinary means. The letters were to be written
destine radio messages. Henri Catherin Gravet,
in secret ink. For the cables a code was
born in southern France in 1906 but raised in
supplied. A code for use with the transmitter
Spain, was to be the agent and embarked for
was likewise furnished. Gravet was to report
Buenos Aires on the Spanish ship "Cabo de Hornos"
from Guatemala on movements of convoys from
at Bilbao, Spain, on March 25, 1943.
both the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of Central
Prior to that time Gravet had once before
America, on factories producing war materials,
been in Argentina, during the years 1928-31. On
ship yards, Allied purchases of stocks, air
arrival in Buenos Aires he had married a young
training and assembly of airplanes, troop move-
Spanish girl with whom he became acquainted on
ments and similar subjects.
shipboard. By 1931 he had failed to establish
himself and returned with his wife to Spain.
After establishing this intelligence set-up
After a period of five years as broker in Barce-
in Guatemala, Gravet was to proceed to Mexico
lona, Gravet began in 1936 to engage in smug-
and contact General Yturbe, who was attached to
gling and illicit money exchange over the Span-
the Spanish Embassy there, and had formerly
ish-French border. In this activity he becaue
been an attache in Tokyo. Gravet was also to
well acquainted and worked with the then Guate-
recruit a radio operator in Mexico. Instruc-
malan Minister to Spain, Julio Urrutia, who was
tions as to further activities in Mexico would
able to carry money, checks and different types
then be received, probably through General
of valuable articles between France and Spain.
Yturbe. It appears very probably, also, that
Between March, 1940, and July, 1941, Gravet
Gravet was then to obtain, if possible, a
lived with his family in Lisbon, where he acted
Guatemalan consular position in the United
as agent in Portugal for the same group in
States through his friend Urrutia, and proceed
carrying on this work. It was in Portugal that
there for the purpose of facilitating his col-
Gravet became acquainted with Angel Alcazar de
lection of espionage information. Details
Velasco, an official of the Spanish Press and
regarding money payments and related items were
Propaganda Department, for whom he was able to
agreed upon. It is interesting to note that
change a large dollar check into Spanish pesetas.
Gravet was to receive more money as his personal
Upon his return to Spain Gravet saw Alcazar de
danger increased.
Velasco several times and the latter once pro-
Gravet sailed from Spain in March, 1943. On
posed that he travel to Dakar on a mission, the
arrival at Buenos Aires May 11, 1943, Gravet was
purpose of which was apparently not made clear.
met by óne Elias Jofre, n Argentine who had
The project was shortly abandoned.
been used by the Japanese in Argentina in
In late 1942 Gravet evidently conceived of
connection with espionage activity. On the fol-
a trip to Guatemala for tie purpose of exporting
lowing day Jofre presented to Gravet a Japanese
coffee to Spain at a profit. This was mentioned
who handed him $5,000 in an envelope and de-
to Alcazar, who proposed that instead of engag-
parted. This Japanese took a roundabout route
ing in bus iness Gravet report information of an
to the Japanese Embassy. He was subsequently
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.93)
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
THE JAPSA ESPIONAGE CASE
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL
FROM DALLAS AND
NEW YORK
(Southern Cotton Company
VENEZUELA
of Dallas)
SA: ARY FATMENT TO SOUTH
AMERICAN COTTON COMPANY
AT SANTIAGO
COLOMBLA
AN
Bogota
JAPAN COLOMBIAN
1R
NTH
1n
TRADING COMPANY
Carrespondence to Cua
Chiona Onental
B R A
ECUADOR
Z 1 L
TWO.WAT
CORRESPONBENCE
WITH TORTO
PERU
YIA RADIO
HANDLED THROUGH JAPANESE EMBASSY
AND POUCH
AT BUENOS AIRES
Each letter contained
BOLIVIA
an enclosure eddressed
to R. Nagai
La Par
Each enclosure contained
SANWA COMPANY
to Hayao.
an enclosure addressed
TAKEO OZASA
Received peyment
TANAKA
NTN
Correspondence to Cia
Chilena Onental
PARAGUAY
COTTON COMPANY
SOUTH AMERICAN
Correspondence to Cia.
NOW WITH SPANISH EMBASSY
from Japen and was
Chiena Orental
intormediary for
NINATION
RIO DE JANEIRO
money to Sao Paulo
and Ro da Janero
Sao Paulo o
STEDT OF PERSONAL FILE OF TAKED GUKUS TAKANG
OF THE CIA CHILENA ORINTAL. SANTIAGO REVEALS
DROP BOX
3 DROP BOXES
S MIURA
Dr. Juan Esteben Montero
Buenos Aires
TWO LETTERS
COUNSL C CEN 
FROM DROP BOX
Kanamo Nakayama Nakayama
SANTIAGO
IN BUENOS AIRES
EMPLOYEE SOUTH AMERAN LOT
Takeo Ozasa Tanaka
Alies Manuol Correa
Ficticious Drops
Rudelfo Ibarra
SANTIAGO
BUENOS
AIRES
To Dr. Ary P De Andrade
To Dr Alberto Goes Telles.
Figueira, Rio de Janeiro
AN C AIANE
CORRESPONDENCE FROM S MIURA
EMPICTE SOUTH AMERICAN COTION
MANAGN TH IAN N
COMPANY IN BUENOS AHIS
Alias Enrique Olivos
Alias Ramon Mihura
LUAN IN SANT
Candido Santidnan
Castilo
and
To
Trading Company
manager of Nambe
KOBAYASHI
SOMO
ene Oriental, but was eiected from Chile.
Goro Muyasaki wa: manager of Cia. Chil-
WTHAFANESE (MBAST
NESTONNECTION
Ria de Janero
through modium of
He moved to Buenos Aires where he is
MENTIONED IN ESPIOMAGE MESSAGES WERE
MATOZO HATTORI
Drop Address
now manager of the Orientel Cotton-
Pacific Commercial Company
Representetive of
Kaisha). He is also known to have trav-
Wool Company (Toyo Menka Kaboshiki
Alias Talrerya Boek:
Japanese K. K. K.
eled in Brazil, Uruguay, and Paraguay,
OALNNCE CCTION
making mineral surveys for Japanese
Siro Ono, Deceased
Government.
Aliases Ono and Ohno
JAFANESE OVERSENIST
Sakahei Kawaguchi, representative
Iwai and Cia. at Santiago
of diplomatic radio group and
Rio de Janeiro and Buenos Aires
manager of Casa Taibo, alhas
Pacific Trading Company.
COMMEPCALINTLIINENCE CLTCTION
Note: Correspondence from Buenos Aires to Rio de Janeiro
and Santiago was entirely espionage administration
*See Buenos Aires
information.
FBI

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 130
identified as Nobuo Ikeda, an employee of the
former secretary in the Japanese Embassy at Rio
Japanese firm Olura and Company in Buenos Aires.
de Janeiro, reportedly a member of the Japanese
Gravet remained in Buenos Aires until
intelligence service, who now represents Japa-
November 13, 1943. During this time he stayed
nese interests in the Spanish Embassy in Rio de
at the Hotel Roi, an apartment at Calle Cordoba,
Janeiro.
and another apartment at Corrientes 915. His
Photographs of correspondence from the files
activities were varied but as time passed he had
of a Japanese named Takano of the Compania
less to do with his espionage mission. Gravet
Chilena Oriental, a Mitsui subsidiary, in-
eventually decided to return to Spain and face
cluded a letter written on the same typewriter
the displeasure of his superiors ra ther than
as the Telles and Figueira letters. This
continue. Cables sent by Gravet to his
communication was from one S. Miura of the
principals in Madrid show his change of mind;
Buenos Aires branch of the South American
their replies urged Gravet to continue. Al-
Cotton Company to his agent, Tanaka, in Santiago
though he decided to return, Gravet did send
Chile relative to the correct form in which to
three letters to Alcazar de Velasco, two of
submit reports. There were furnished correct
which contained some information of an espionage
new cover names and addresses to be used. As a
nature.
cover name for "special cases" the letter gave
Gravet left for Spain aboard the "Cabo de
Buena Esperanza." When the ship stopped at
the name of Dr. Juan Esteban Montero, who was
Trinidad in early December, 1943, Gravet was
President of Chile in 1932, together with his
removed by Allied authorities. He is now in an
telephone number.
Allied prison camp. His confederate in Buenos
In this communication Spanish cover names
Aires, Elias Jofre, was arrested by Argentine
were given to two employees of the South Amer-
federal police on February 12, 1944, on charges
ican Cotton Company at Santiago, Ozasa and
of espionage.
Nakayama. Additional correspondence showed that
salary payments after June, 1941, for these two
JASPA NETWORK
agents would come from the New York office of
This case involves a Japanese espionage ring
the company in accordance with instructions from
which operated principally in Argentina, Brazil
the Japanese home office.
and Chile but which in its entirety amounts to a
The remainder of the correspondence covers
Western Hemisphere intelligence ring known to
the procurement of diversified United States
have operated in Bolivia, Peru, Chile, Argen-
economic intelligence information through branch
tina ; Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Brazil;
offices of the company at points all over Latin
Dallas, Texas; and New York City. It is be-
America through the use of Japanese commercial
lieved that information gathered by this ring
firms masquerading under Spanish cover names.
was forwarded to Tokyo through the Japanese
One item was a detailed write-up of the
Embassy at Buenos Aires by diplomatic means dur-
Office of the Coordinator of Inter-American Af-
ing 1943 and unti1 January 28, 1944. On the
fairs, with a chart as to the individuals and
latter date the last commercial cable, radio and
their duties in that office.
telephone connection with Japan available to
Another letter containing secret messages
Japanese in the Wes tern Hemisphere was cut off
and postmarked in Buenos Aires on February 10,
by Argentine Government decree. Correspondence
1943, was sent to Candido Santidrian Castillo at
sent by the members of the ring was in various
a known espionage drop box in Santiago, Chile.
Japanese codes. It was transmitted through the
This letter related to the exchange and confir-
medium of South Americans who have represented
mation of messages by the Japanese Army and
Japanese commercial companies. Some of the
commercial radios and further concerned the
correspondence showed that salary payments to
financing of espionage agents. It also mentions
two of the agents emanated from the United
several agents and commercial companies who
States.
have already been the subject of investigation
Two letters mailed at Buenos Aires, Argen-
as being engaged in Japanese espionage. This
tina, on September 4, 1942, and sent to a Dr.
communication was re-mailed and was picked up
Alberto Telles and to a Dr. Ary Figueira, both
by a Japanese previously reported as an espio-
at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, were compared and
nage agent, one Motozo Hattori, Avenida Margara
found to have been written by the same individ-
2010, Santiago, who is a representative of the
ual.
Japanese Kkk, in Chile, and an intimate of the
Dr. Telles has been identified as the pro-
Japanese Legation. Motozo Hattori was observed
prietor of a small Rio de Janeiro jewelry and
in contact with German and Spanish Diplomatic
curiosity shop, who was friendly with the Japa-
officials prior to his repatriation from Chile
nese. His daughter was formerly employed in the
in September, 1943.
Japanese Embassy in Rio de Janeiro.
In Argentina the principal subjects have
Dr. Figueira has been identified as a
been two Japanese named Isoma Kobayashi and
wealthy attorney representing the Bank of
Suekazu Miura. The first is managing director
London and various Japanese firms of the Yoko-
of Nambei, Compania de Importacion y Export-
hama Specie Bank at Rio de Janeiro.
action Sociedad Anonima, Mitsui representative
The let ters to Telles and Figueira had
in Argentina. Kobayashi res ides at Juramento
enclosure letters to one Nagai directing Nagai
1805. Miura is Argentine representative of the
to forward a further enclosure, in a Japanese
Japanese cotton firm Toyo Menka Kaisha, closely
code, to one Hayao, and giving Nagai instruc-
allied with Mitsui, and res ides at Humboldt
tions for a reply. Hayao is believed to be a
2477. Kobayashi was arrested by Argentine
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 131
Federal l'olice on charges of espionage on
and "United States Magaz ine." The normal news
February 12, 1944, but was released May 26.
value of some of the information sent would
seem to have been lost by the time it reached
CHOKO SHIRAKAWA
Japan, such as the message sent to Domei on Jan-
Shirakawa, a Japanese national, employed in
uary 20, 1944, regarding layoffs of employees in
a minor position by the former Japanese Embassy
the Bell Aircraft plants because of production
in Buenos Aires, had received at his home mail
of a new-type airplane, citing as the scurce of
addressed to a non-existent Juan Roberto Martin-
this information the "New York Times" of Novem-
ez. The letters came fron both Chile and Peru.
ber 14, 1943. Another example of intelligence
Before November 1, 1943, Shirakawa resided at
information sent by the Domei correspondent is
Calie, Mexico 1815, Second Floor, Apartment H,
contained in a message of January 25, 1944,
where he carefully instructed the building
which names the companies in the United States
porter to deliver to him letters addressed to
engaged in the production of Pratt & Whitney
Martinez. Shirakawa gave similar instructions
airplane engines; the source is given as the
to the porter it his present address, San Jose
previous December 1 issue of "Wall Street Jour-
G33, Third Floor, Apartment C.
nal."
Probably the most outstanding of these cor-
Two letters from Lima, Peru, written by an
responden ts is Masao Tsuda of Domei. Born in
unknown individual, addressed to Martinez were
London, England, he lived many years in European
intereepted. They were secret messages contain-
countries and is said to have been the Japanese
ing informai ion of an administ rative na ture
delegate to the Labor Bureau in the League of
regard ing the Japanese colony in Peru and a lso
Nations at Geneva, Switzerland. When the pres-
ins truet ions as to the handling of mail sent to
ent war broke out in Europe, Tsuda went to the
Peru. From this it seems apparent that Shirak-
Uni ted States and then in 1941 to Buenos Aires
awa acted as a mail intermediary for the Japa-
to become head South American representative for
nese Embassy and that the Embassy was condueting
Domei. He set up an office at Avenida R. S.
,landest ine correspondence with a Japanese agent
Pena 868, 5th Floor, Apartment 1, where he em-
or aeents in Peru.
ployed steadily five persons of Japanese descent,
A woman aged about forty and at present
including stenographers, and from which he sent
ident ified only as Doetora Angela Acosta de
messages to his agency in Japan via Transradio
Doblesky ca I led at Shira kawa's apartment fre-
Internacional and Italcable said to have cost
quent ly and seemed mach interes ted in having
between $1,500 and $2,500 (U.S. currency) per
let ters addressed to Juan Roberto Martinez reach
month. As sources for his information Tsuda
Shi ra kawa. At the San Jose apartment address
himself read all newspapers and periodicals
she: has rece ived letters in her own name sent
available, including a number of American publi-
from Chi le. She resides, however, in a rooming
cations which he purchased in local book stores
house a1 Sarmiento 1775.
or received through employees who subscribed to
Choko Shirakawa was arres ted by Argent ine
them in non-Japanese names. In his office he
Federa1 Police on February 12, 1914, for espio-
maintained an extensive filing system divided
nage act ivity. He was released in May, 1914.
into three main sections, on Allied Military,
NEWS CORRESPONDENTS
Political, and Economic affairs.
In addition, it is known that Tsuda had
Four news ngene ies in Japan had corres pond-
close relations with the Japanese Embassy and
ents in Buenos Aires when the at tack was made
undoubtedly he exchanged with Embassy personnel
on Poarl Ilarbor. Masao Tsada represented Domei,
information which he had collected and evalu-
Tokoj iro Furuta was correspondent for Yomiuri-
ated.
Hochi. Saburo Suzuki for Ma inichi and Takamoto
Japan utilized the services of its news
Hosokawa represented Asahi. Hosokawa was
agencies to secure foreign intelligence. For
repatriated in detober. 1913, and was replaced
example, on April 6, 1943, Yomiuri in Buenos
by Giichi Imai.
Aires was asked to telegraph to Japan his
Considerable intelligence information was
opinion of the anti-aircraft defense system
t ransmit ted ,o Japan through the messages of
on the east coast of the United States.
these correspondents in late 1913 and January,
Again, on April 9, 1943, Yomiuri was re-
1911. Inc luded in this informat ion were data
ques ted to telegraph data to Japan on the
on Uni ted States shipbui ld ing, arms produet ion,
strength of the American Air Force in China,
oiI produet ion, the development of new fue1s
its gasol ine supply routes, and the number of
and the pertormance of new United States fighter
American planes being sent to China.
planes. Also ine luded were data on the inereased
This information system was cut off when the
porsonnel of the Inited States Army Air Force,
Argentine Government decreed, after breaking
the offeet on transportation of the United
diplomatic relations with Axis countries, that
States railroad strike, and the poss ibility
commercial cable, radio and telephone communica-
of a set t led peace in the Pae ifie in the event
tion with Axis countries should cease as of mid-
of the defeai of President Roosevelt in the 1914
night, January 28, 1941. Correspondent Masao
cleetion.
Tsuda was arrested on February 12, 1944, by the
In many of the messages sources were named,
Argentine Federal Police on charged of espionage.
such as A1lied news ageney f'lashes and American
He was released in May and was at liberty at
newspaprs and magaz ines, principal among these
last reports. Saburo Suzuki, Mainichi corres-
be ine the "New York Times," "Wall Street Jour-
pondent, was arrested by federal police Septem-
na1," "New York Herald Tribune," "Life," "Time,"
ber 1 and released September 5, 1944.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.89)
REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA
DISTRIBUTION OF JAPANESE NATIONALS
POLITICAL
JAPANESE
DIVISIONS
NATIONALS
Fdd Cop
1,911
PROVINCES
BheneAirn
200
Calmmarce
3 Cod
200
4 Carriente
10
5 Emtre Ricu
20
6 
5
Key
7 La Rin
8 Mendoae
9 Sale
10 Sem Jun
11 Sen Luais
5 or Under
20
13 Spa del Entore
12 Smto Fo
14 Tacmen
TERRITOCIES
15
16 Caat
D
3
17 F
18 La Pamp
19 Loo Aadoo
FEDERAL CAPITAL
20 Mi
6 to 100
21 Noqn
Zi Rho Nopro
0
17
23 Samtbu Cram
15
24 Tieme ded Fuopo
13
Tobel
2,605
14
101 to 500
18
II
22
2
23
19
10
2
501 and above

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 133
BLACK DRAGON SOCIETY (KOKURYU KAI)
tical parties and instigated the "new national
structure movement," the Imperial Rule Assist-
The Kokuryu Kai is one of a number of Japa-
ance Association (Taisei Yokusan Kai), a single
nese political secret societies originating from
party controlled by the militarists.
the Genyosha or the Black Ocean Society founded
The Black Dragon Society has been accused
in 1879 by Mitsuru Toyama, the aged adviser of
of the assassination of a number of Japanese
Japanese extremists. Only recently has it been
politicians within the last several decades'and
reported to exist in Latin America. The name
a large number of its members were arrested for
was taken from Kokuryuko, the Japanese inter-
acts of violence. It has been reported that
pretation of the Chinese Heilungkiang or Amur
lesser members of the organization have extorted
River which forms part of the frontier between
money from people by representing that they are
Manchukuo and the Soviet Union, the scene of
members of this extremist organization. A ver-
its early activities. It is properly termed
sion of this crime was seen in the publication
the Amur River Society and is also known as the
of a threat at Sacramento, California, in 1939,
"China Wave Men" (Ronin).
by operators of the Tokyo Gambling Club.who
Japanese apologists have regretted that
were reputedly affiliated with the society.
Kokuryu is translated in English as Black Drag-
The source of power of the Black Dragon
on because of the connotations attached to that
Society is in its members as individuals, not
name and have denied that is is violent in its
as a group. Many Japanese affiliated with the
methods. These have stated that the scciety
society are highly placed politically and con-
was originated by persons interested in Japa-
trol national policy. They use the society as a
nese foreign affairs for the advancement of
pressure group and a cloak for their acts. Its
Asiatic races in world politics. They believed
name has been used by reactionaries for the
the Amur River should be the center of Japanese
psychological effect because of the implications
military activity and from that consideration
and the decades of tradition of violence behind
adopted its name for their organization.
it. Other sources of strength of these ultra-
The Society was organized in 1901 by Rychei
nationalistic leaders are the bands of "soshi,"
I'chida and others wi th the assistance and ap-
or political bullies.
proval of Mitsuru Toyama. It is one of the end-
Some sources have asserted that the organ-
less list of secret societies in Japan con-
ization is practically defunct because of the
stantly mushrooming and dissolving and has be-
present political situation in Japan, and others
come the most outstanding of these; a weapon
state that it rema ins the moving spirit behind
of diplomacy and an important factor in the
the present militaristic government. That it is
political affairs of the Japanese Empire. 1t
now a political force is supported by a broad-
claims to be the successor of the secret soci-
cast of Radio Tokyo on June 3, 1943, which
eties behind the Meiji Restoration of 1867 when
quoted this society as demanding that the late
the Imperial armies moved against the Yedo Sho-
President Roosevelt, Prime Minister Churchill
gunate.
and other United Nations leaders "surrender un-
Its political activities are said to reach
conditionally to Japan" or else "succumb under
back to the Sino-Japanese War of 1894 and to
divine punishment within a fatefully short time.
have been constantly implicated in political
This ultimatum supports the con tention that the
movements in Japan and China since that time
Black Dragon Society remains a powerful terror-
even to the extent of having provided assistance
istic society. Radio Tokyo chose to describe it
to Dr. Sun Yat-sen in the Chinese Revolution of
at this time as "one of the purest and strongest
1911. They are also reputed to have offered
institutions of Japan" and the most resolutely
asylum to such Filipinos as Artemio Ricarte,
determined to maintain the Nipponese Policy.
who refused to take an oath of allegiance to the
In view of this unusual background it is
Uni ted States after the Spanish-American War,
interesting to note that in Argentina several
and East Indians such as Subhas Chandra Bose,
reports have been received indicating that this
both now Japanese propagandists.
Society is operating both in Argentina and in
"The "Incident" at Mukden on Sep tember 18,
Brazil. This is the first known instance of the
1931, and the Japanese conquest of Manchuria
possible functioning of this secret organization
and the consequent demand for the reorganization
in the Westem Hemisphere.
of the government, gave great impetus to the
Available information in Argentina reflects
policies and organizations of patriots. Ninety
names of members and their meeting places. The
such groups were soon flourishing with three-
head of the Society in Latin America is alleged
quarters of a million members as the Kokuhonsha
to be Katsushige Hanani who has lived in Argen-
(National Foundation Society), Kokusuikai (Es-
tina and also in Brazil.
sence of National Culture Association), Kenkoku-
Minoni Kitagawa is said to head the organi-
kai (Country Upbuilding Society), Jimmukai (Soci-
zation in Argentina where it is believed to have
ety for Venerating Kimmu Tenno), and the Seinen-
political influence chiefly among the lower
kai (Young Men's Association). These approved
classes.
the policy in China and supported the militar-
ists.
Jap anese Schools
The Black Dragon Society has within it other
It is known that Japanese schools have been
patriotic societies among them being the Seis-
used for subversive purposes. In Argentina
anto or the Production Society which represents
there are eleven Japanese schools. The largest
its political phase. Through this arm the Kok
is the Japanese Grammar School of Buenos Aires.
ryu Kai urged the dissolution of Japanese poli-
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.99)
Pago 134
It consists of 7 grades and had 14 teachers and
Nishizawa of Mitsubishi, and his wife, Mrs.
214 pupi1s during the term ending March, 1944.
Sadako Nishizawa; Ryoichi Furuta, son of Toku-
Others, having various names are located in the
jiro Furata, Yomiuri-Hochi correspondent.
following cities or suburbs: Burzaco, Monte
As a result of investigation and arrests
Grande, Moron, Varela, Futaba, Escobar, Rosario,
made by its police, the Argentine Government in
Cosquin, and Cordoba.
April, 1944, issued an official announcement of
In December, 1943, the authorities of Buenos
its findings with regard to Japanese espionage.
Aires Province ordered Japanese schools under
A translation of this announcement is as fol-
their jurisdiction to cease the use of the Japa-
lows:
nese language in teaching. Japanese textbooks
"At the time of the declaration of war by
have been used to some extent in the past in
the Uni ted States of America against Japan as a
connection with the courses taught in Japanese
result of the surprise attack on Pearl Harbor
language. In February, 1944, Japanese school
the representatives in the Argentine Republic
authorities had printed locally two sets of
of important commercial and industrial establish-
textbooks in their language; one set contained
ments of known Japanese firms received orders
only innocent matter and was to be shown to
to send to Tokyo information of an economic,
Argentine educational authorities for trans-
industrial, political and labor character about
lation if they desired, while the other con-
the United States, aid also about the installa-
tained material of a propaganda nature and was
tions of military bases and troop movements by
intended for unauthorized use by the Japanese
that country in some South American countries.
teachers. In June, 1944, some, at least, of
Such reports were transmitted through various
these schools were authorized to resume the use
telegraph and tel ephone companies.
of Japanese but were required to employ Argen-
The direction of this espionage organiza-
tines as principals. It is believed both texts
tion was in the hands of Shozo Murai, the Civil
are currently being used in these schools.
Attache of the Japanese Embassy in this country,
Also of interest in connection with educa-
who was assisted by several of his countrymen,
tion is the existence of a group known as the
and also by a number of citizens of Argentina
Friends of the Japanese Language (Nippongo Tomo
and other South American countries. This of-
No Kai). This group appears to be mainly occu-
ficial sent to Tokyo, through the intermediary
pied in preparing a textbook for foreigners
of a friendly nation, messages in code, by mak-
studying Japanese, conducting lectures and
ing use of common books in which the text had
classes on the subject and occasionally spon-
certain letters inperceptibly marked."
soring tea parties.
Local authorities believe that most of the
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
Japanese in Argentina have a firm faith in Ja-
pan's invinciblity, a faith which colony lead-
The arrests of several Japanese involved
ers, Japanese diplomats and news correspondents
in subversive activity have been indicated in
assisted in preserving by morale-building
preceding sections. In addition to those men-
speeches during mid-1944, which contained as-
tioned, the following Japanese were arrested by
tounding promises of future victories. To these
Argentine Federal Police on or about February 10,
the truth has probably come as a shock. Some
1944, on charges of engaging in Japanese espio-
Argentines hope this will cause a lessening of
nage:
emphasis by Japanese of their racial differences,
Takao Arai, connected with the Yokahama Specie
a breaking away from the Japanese colony and
Bank; Jorge Yoshio Shinya, also active in pro-
general closer identification of themselves by
moting Argentine-Japanese cul tural relations and
Japanese with Argentina. As generations of
propaganda activities; Mario Chosaburo Katsuda,
Argentine-born Japanese succeed one another
it is possible the movement away from their
importer and merchant; Heisaku Ueda, butler,
arrested because mistaken for Hidenosuke Ueda,
colony will take place with greater rapidity
former cook of Goro Miyasaki; Saijiro Tsuji,
and permanency.
independent businessman. All Japanese diplo-
À counteracting movement tending to increase
the grouping of Japanese together and their
mats in Argentina have been interned and are
presently at the Eden Hotel, at La Falda, where
segregation is to be noted in the recent pur-
their only means of communication with the out-
chase by a Japanese firm of two large farms and
side world is that afforded by the Swiss Lega-
their establishment of young Japanese on them
tion.
for work. The extent to which this will occur
Meetings of Japanese organizations, such as
is unpredictable, but it is noted that in Para-
the Japanese Association of Argentina, are now
guay over 800 Japanese are together in a
attended by one or more members of the Argentine
community settlement and agricul tural under-
police and the meetings must be conducted in
taking. The many different businesses in which
Spanish rather than in Japanese as formerly.
they are engaging in Argentina, however, will
Arrangements for the exchange of diplomats
tend to prevent this.
and civilians have not been definitely con-
Local authorities believe the number of
cluded, but lists of Japanese in Argentina to
Japanese in Argentina can be expected to grow
be repatriated have been prepared. However,
if the nation's liberal immigration policies
six Japanese from Argentina were repatriated
are continued. It is a rich country offering
with those from Chile who sailed on an exchange
better opportunity than many countries to which
vessel in October, 1943. They were Goro Miya-
Japanese have in the past immigrated. It can
saki, or Mitsui; Takamoto Hosokawa, correspond-
be said that the large numbers of Japanese in
ent of Mainichi, and his daughter, Kinu; Takeo
Peru and Brazil in comparison with Argentina may
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.88)
Page 135
be due to the fact that official Japanese
Fruitgrowing (Principally in the State of
colonization agencies assisted immigration in
Mendoza)
the first two countries and not in Argentina.
Number of operators
30 persons
The government control over the Japanese in
Amount of annual production
700,000 pesos
Argentina has not been as stringent as in some
Area under cultivation
1,225 acres
(0f this, 490 acres is owned 1and)
other countries. The Japanese in this country
have made repeated efforts to assist their
Mate (In the domains and under direct control of
Mother Country. In spite of these two factors
Miss ions)
the Japanese in Argentina as elsewhere in Latin
Number of operators
60 persons
Amorie: have not been able to operate effeet-
Area under cultivation
1,617 acres
ively to the point where their aetivities con-
Business
Stitnted a threat to hemispheric defense.
"Dyeing and Laundry Work
Number of operators
350 persons
Amount invested
1,500,000 pesos
"SOUTH AMERICA BY SEIZO MOGAAI*
Amount of annual business
2,500,000 pesos
1 tlo S1zo Moenmi. as a delgate of the
Cafe Business
Number of operators
80 persons
Lpeatee troverhment. isited South America w1th
:Lp onse Comme lon. During this Journey, he
Amount invested
1,500,000 pesos
ratnr  intrmt pr. lor a book entitled "South
Amount of annual bus iness
3,600,000 pesos
sri nren ne not puo1i sned in Tokyo, Japan.
Trade and Sell ing Merchandise
in Sptember. It 1. A translatron of this book
Number of firms (important)
22 firms
terlet tat it imifi concerned with the
Total amount of capital
1,800,000 pesos
1p1errdonomie and in1
(Excepting branches of Japanese firms)
problen in Soott n ri ca. According to this
Amount of annual business
35,000,000 pesos
uree.   o lapanese in Argen-
Activities
M1in es Aires.Th
"Another Japanese enterprise was the Japanese-
Argentine joint coneern, the Argent ine Commerce
rus
and Industry Marine Products Joint-Stock Company
trri. a kind t tobao, prapes, apples, peach-
having a capi ta1 of 100, 000 pesos. The industry,
with the trawler that was sailel from Japan,
pr.r n brewine wine.
A e  1 pod is
Sold to the market all the fish that were caught.
1 haoaeese pshdeot we mee sheene thee Parm-
The amount ot the catch for the fiseal year of
1939 was said to rise to about 5,000 tons.
rs to te tire: n monter win 1. loo persons.
ro1 1owed by dyers and L:tndrymen w1 th 1,050 per-
"There are twenty-five various public organi-
m e cre orerator w Foo persons.The
zat ions. two religious organizations and two
crerrt condi tion at that time is retleeted by
atileti organizat ions of the Japanese Associa-
tion. There are a1so four different groups, the
Federat ion of Japanese Floricul ture Unions, the
M1:
Gingahan (Milky Way Bank) Floricul ture Union,
Au
tie Union of )apanese Dyers and Laundrymen, and
the Jose C. Pas Japanese Flower Cooperative For
Number of perator
E30 persons
ward and Sel ling Union. There were seven Japa-
Arount inve td
3.000.000 P50S
nese el ementary schools with about 4oo children.
pmount or anmoat prodoet1 n
2.200.000 PesOS
"In this country they weleomed immigrants
Area under ul tivat ron -
fror Europe who entered the country but since a
tew years ago the government has taken a nation-
1ad ownd
117.6aer
ai isolatio: poliey and all except people coming
Area uoder culivatton -
for the second time, tourists, dramatic com-
Land Leased
796.25 acres
panies, cont ract engineers, contract colonists,
Fruck Farmoe (Siburbs ot Capi ta)
and near relatives of residents of Argentina,
Numbr 1 perator
200 persons
betore their departure must, previously, receive
Amount nvisted
2.000.000.150S
a permit ot cntry from the Immigrat ion Bureau.
Amount or anmral produetion
2,500,000 pesos
At present, because Japanese are not permi tted
Area uedeo cul tivation
7,350 aeres
to enter except those callei by near relatives,
11 th 73.5 ares 1 oed 1and)
the passengers are feeling it. However, it is
Parmine and Stock Raising (State of Buenos Aired
an agricul tural country and as uncult ivated land
Number or operttors
3 persons
is plentitul, recent ly a new colonization bill
Ant v td
1,000, 000 pesos
is said to have passed the Congress and in case
Arront or mml produetpon
conditions in Firope becone s table, it can be
Arn d n tarmine and
observed that superior colonists will probably
took rarine
13. 720 acres
be welcomed.
 The pntorort ton seeured ty tme dapuneese ofrreral, Se izo Mogami, ees not been veritied by indepen-
denm invest imt pon and it is simply prosented at this time as a supplement for whatever va lue it may
hev.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPHLATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 136
PARAGUAY
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
The Japanese colony has a two-room school
BACKGROUND
with about 250 students and three Paraguayan
and three Japanese teachers. In the spring.of
Population and Location
1944 it was discovered that Chihiro Uchida, who
The total number of Japanese living in
later became Japanese Consul residing at Venez-
uela 450, Buenos Aires, Argentina, was endeavor-
Paraguay is not more than 800. The great-
ing to furnish the Ybytymi school with Japanese
er portion of this number came to Paraguay
grammar school readers. Uchida's plan was to
between 1936 and 1940 under the auspices of the
Japanese Overseas Emigrants Association to
print separately a propaganda supplement con-
taining objectionable matter concerning Japanese
cultivate land purchased by the Association near
military history and des tiny. According to
the village of Yby timi and establish a colony.
Uchida the grammar school readers would be
Under Paraguayan law, Japanese may not reside
used openly in the Japanese schools of Argentina
outside this colony, which has been named La
and Paraguay, and the supplements circulated
Colmena, without express govemmental permission.
clandestinely among the students and their
Consequently there are very few Japanese resid-
families.
ing in Asuncion or other cities, and those who
do are engaged in operating one or two restau-
Mr. Enrique Scarone, an energetic and pro-
rants, cleaning and dyeing establishments, or
Allied Paraguayan, who is Interventor in the
nearby truck farms.
Japanese colony, discovered this project and
La Colmena is located about ninety miles
took appropriate steps to prevent the circula-
southeast of Asuncion, and may be reached only
tion of these texts in Paraguay.
by oxcart, truck, horseback or jeep. It has
Following the rupture of diplomatic rela-
been functioning for approximately the last five
tions between Argentina and Japan, Chihiro
years, although it was founded on May 15, 1936,
Uchida remained in Buenos Aires and has carried
pursuant to Paraguayan Governmental Decree
on his management of the affairs of the Japanese
Number 1026, dated April 30, 1936. The initial
colony in Paraguay on a personal and private
arrangements for its organization were made by
basis. It has been established that he remitted
Kunito Mijasika, First Manager, and by Agricul-
about $1,500 of the colony's funds from Argen-
tural Engineer and Japanese Government repre
tina to individual Japanese in Paraguay follow-
sentative Chihiro Uchida. The present Manager,
ing the break for fear of their seizure by the
who assumed his post in May, 1941, is Go Hioki,
Argentine Government. Up to the time of the
who moved to Paraguay from Sao Paulo, Brazil.
diplomatic rupture, the colony was receiving
At the present time the colony contains about
funds directly from Japan through Uchida. The
125 Japanese families, estimated to include
correspondence exchanged between the colony and
about 700 persons, together with a population
1 ts Directors in Asuncion and Buenos Aires in
of some 950 native Paraguayans. The colony
1942 has revealed that the Japanese Government
produces mostly cotton, rice, and corn, which
has, since the establishment of the colony, con-
is carried by oxcart to Ybytymi, a drive of
ducted a close control and supervision of all
two hours or more, where connections may be
its activities. It is probable that a certain
made with the railroad.
degree of control will continue to exist so long
as the Argentine Government permits Uchida to
SCCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
continue his operations.
The Japanese colony La Colmena engages pri-
The Japanese colony does not appear on the
marily in raising and marketing cotton and
American Proclaimed List nor on the British
other agricultural products. The people are
Statutory List because of the fact that it is
mainly poor and uneducated. They are not
economically necessary to the country and has
accepted as equals by the natives of Paraguay.
been successfully defended by the Faraguayan
Therefore these Japanese have not penetrated
Government. Ihat Paraguay is not particularly
to any extent the social and political life of
concerned with the American Proclaimed List is
the country.
apparent from an incident which occurred in
May, 1944, when the colony in violation of ver-
COMMERCE
bal orders of the Interventor placed a $700
order with the bl ack-listed firm Ferreteria
Economically speaking the colony just bare-
Universal. The Interventor attempted to block
ly exists and has in the past been subsidized
the order but was overridden by the Minister of
by funds furnished through the Japanese Legation
Interior and Justice, Colonel Amancio Pampliega,
in Buenos Aires. The Japanese Consulate in
who was apparently prevailed upon to intervene
Asuncion was closed in March, 1942, and its
in their behalf by the German Managers of the
functions, dealing almost exclusively with the
store. It does not appear that Japanese influ-
economic situation of the colony, were taken
ence effected Pampliega's intervention but
over personally by Shigeto Kishi, formerly
rather, pressure from tne important Germans
Manager for the Japanese Overseas Emigrants
connected wi th the hardware store. Since that
Association, and now known s imply as Asuncion
time, written instructions have been issued by
agent for the colony. No trade of any import-
the Interventor that the colony shall not deal
ance exists. Farm products are sold locally.
with any firms appearing on the Proclaimed List
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH.LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.96)
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AN INLAND REPUBLIC
AXIS NATIONALS IN PARAGUAY
EACH SYMBOL REPRESENTS 1.00O NATIONALS
Paraguay serves as a buffer state be-
GERMANS
tween the two largest republics of South
America, namely, Brazil and Argentina.
35.000
B
ITALIANS
R
9,000
A
JAPANESE
500
N
TOTAL AXIS NATIONALS
44.500
Key
Concentration of German
Nationals
URUGUAY
Concentration of Italian
品
Nationals
Nearly all of Paraguay's imports and exports
cross Argentina to reach their destination. The
Paraguay River is the main artery of commerce
but some imports and exports are ferried across
the Parana River. Concentrations of Axis
Concentration of Japanese
Nationals inhabit this area and as a result these
Nationals
commercial routes are constantly endangered.

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.99)
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
AREA COMPARISON
MAP OF PARAGUAY IM-
POSED ON 2 OF OUR
WESTERN STATES IS
SIMILAR IN SIZE
WASHINGTON
OREGON
TOTAL AREA OF PARAGUAY
174,854 SQ. MILES
TOTAL AREA OF WASHINGTON AND OREGON
155,826 SQ. MILES

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 139
and the Japanese themselves have stated that
URUGUAY
they are completely in agreement with this pol-
1cy. The Minister has so far made no attempt
BACKGROUND
to countermand these written instructions and
has given the weak excuse that he had interfered
Population and Location
with the first order only because the written
The entire Japanese colony of Uruguay, ac-
instruction had not reached the colony prior to
1ts placing the order with the store.
cording to available statistics, does not exceed
The vast majority of the Japanese appear to
sixty in number. Almost all of these Japanese
be simple peasants interested only in scraping
live in or near Montevideo.
a living from the land. Some are literate and
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PENETRATION
their writings have revealed their strong pro-
Japanese convictions, while the colony officials
The Japanese in Uruguay are not important
are in effect also employees of the Japanese
either socially or politically. None of their
Government and are completely loyal to their
activities in these spheres constitute a threat
emperor. The principal officers include:
to the supremacy of the natives. They have no
Go Hioki
Manager
political influence and no social prestige. For
Hisakaza Kasamatsu
Engineer and Colony President
the most part, they are engaged in such pursuits
as flower raising, small storekeeping, and serv-
Shonosuke Oka
Mayordomo
Naotaro Shimanaka
Treasurer
ing as laborers and domestics.
Yosi taro Sakei
Chief of Store Section
COMMERCE
Michi teru 1shii
Secretary
dideo Tacska
Chiet of Astgncion
There are three Japanese commercial firms of
Stigeto ki shi
office ot the Colony
limi ted importance located in Montevideo. These
There nas been no evidence of the existence
firms are Matsutaro Omura, S. Yamada y Cia., and
of such dapanese organizations as the Nippon
B. Takinami. More details of these firms will
Gawa Society or the Black Dragon Society. Like-
be given ina subsequent section of this chapter.
wise no informat ion nas been developed indicat-
No really important Japanese commerce exists.
ing the existenee ot any regularly organized
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
Military or Naval Japanese espionage. The vast
Fajority of the Japanese in Paraguay are so
Allegations have been made that the three
remotely isolated in their colony and possess
Japanese commercial firms previously referred to
stch poor communication tacilities that it is
have been utilized as centers of espionage and
improbable that they would be able to transmit.
subversive activities in Uruguay. Investiga-
informat ion of value to Japan.
tions have been made but no evidence has been
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
developed to indicate that these companies are
engaged in subversive activities.
IThe Laraguayan public appears to have little
The firm of Matsutaro Omura, Calle Soriano
af'fect ion tor tihe dapanese, whom they do not
1190, Montevideo, is included in both the Brit-
underst and, and, conseguently, there is no diffi-
ish Statutory List and the United States Pro-
ulty in enlisting the cooperation of the Para-
claimed List. This firm, which deals in cloth,
guayan tovernment in exerting striet control
silk andcrockery, reportedly employs two Japa-
over Japanese movements and act ivities. This
nese, Iwao Nisizaki and Masao Okada, and one
is illustrated by the fact that the police have
Uruguayan, Eduardo Corona. The capital of this
reeently completed a project of registering
business is approximately 50,000 Uruguayan pesos
every Japanese in Paraguay of the age of fifteen
(about $25,000 U.S.). This firm has been re-
or over, including photographing, fingerprint-
ported as being not only the center of Japanese
ing and the completion of an extensive ques-
subversive activities in Montevideo, but as also
tionnaire. These documents are all in the
being in possession of a short-wave radio trans-
possession of the Interventor to assist him in
mitter. A search of the property of this firm
his work. Ihe Interventor has also instituted
by officials of the Uruguayan Government estab-
striet rules concerning the disbursement of
lished that no radio transmitter was located on
Japanese funds, each expendi ture of more than
the premises. A search of the home of Eduardo
$1.5o requiring his signature. Al1 travel by
Corona by the Uruguayan Committee investigating
Japanese nationals must have his personal ap-
anti-National activities reflected dealings on
proval. He has insisted that henceforth all
the part of the Omura firm with "fronts" in
records must be kept in the Spanish language
violation of the Proclaimed List. Examination
and that he be furnished with a Spanish trans-
of the material in the possession of Corona
lation of every communication eminating from or
indicated no espionage or subversive activities
entering the Japanese colony. He Likew ise has
other than Proclaimed List evasions.
instituted a system of controls in the school
S. Yamada y Cia., Calle Uruguay 1184, Monte-
to prevent the teaching of the Japanese ideology.
video, is included in both the British Statutory
Ihe majority of governmental officials appear to
and the United States Proclaimed List. The
be sincerely hopeful that after the war arrange
Montevideo firm, a partnership closely related
ments can be made to deport all Japanese colo-
to S. Yamada y Cia. of Buenos Aires, is known as
nists ei ther to Japan or some other place where
an importing concern having a capital of 50,000
they will not be a probl em to the Paraguayan
pesos (approximately $25,000 U.S.), apportioned
Government.
between four partners as follows:
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 140
Masagoro Immamura...20,000 pesos
that he was engaged in subversive or espionage
Soshiro Yamada......20,000 pesos
activities. Another search of Sagara's residence
Eisaku Iino......... 5,000 pesos
by the Montevideo Police on June 14, 1944, was
Shukicki Sagara..... 5,000 pesos
similarly. negative. Technical experts of the
The administration of the firm is handled by
Radio Communications Bureau of Uruguay determined
that the antenna used by Sagara is not suitable
Shukicki Sagara.
B. Takinami, Calle Juan Carlos Gomez 1426,
for transmission purposes and can be used only
Montevideo, is a general importing concern in-
for a receiving set.
There has never been a full-time Japanese
cluded in both the British Statutory List and
Diplomatic Mission in Uruguay. For this reason,
the United States Proclaimed List. The capital
of this firm is reported to be approximately
the Japanese have not enjoyed the high degree of
organization which they have in other countries.
65,000 Uruguayan pesos (about $32,500 U.S.).
It is known that where official diplomatic mis-
As previously indicated, the entire Japa-
sions operated they were always eager to foster
nese population in Uruguay does not number more
organizations on the part of their people. The
than sixty, many of whom are engaged in very
lack of these officials in Uruguay probably
menial occupations. All are inconsequential
accounts for the absence of effective organiza-
from the aspect of political and social power.
tion suitable for subversive purposes.
The following, however, are the relatively
prominent Japanese located in Montevideo:
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
Masao Okada, employee of the firm Matsutaro
Omura; (Matsutaro Omura, the owner of the firm,
The Government of Uruguay has taken various
who is also owner of the firm of the same name
protective measures against the Japanese. The
in Buenos Aires, Argentina, returned to Japan
effectiveness of these measures is open to doubt.
in March of 1940).
For example, no Japanese national is permitted
Iwao Nisizaki, employee of the firm Omura.
by law to leave the country without a certifi-
Bumpel Takinami, Manager of the firm B.
cate of good conduct. Technically, such certi-
Takinami.
ficates are not available to Japanese nationals.
Shukicki Sagara, Manager of S. Yamada y Cia,
However, this provision has not prevented a
was suspected of having a clandestine radio
certain amount of travel between Argentina and
transmitter in his home at Simon Bolivar 1436.
Uruguay by Japanese nationals.
A large antenna at that address was estimated as
The legal prohibition against the publica-
being about sixty feet in length, well insulated
tion or dissemination of Axis propsganda has not
and possibly suitable for transmission purposes.
caused any reduction of these activities on the
These suspicions were intensified upon discovery
part of the Japanese in Uruguay, since there has
that Sagara had employed two carpenters for the
never been a Japanese language newspaper pub-
purpose of constructing secret compartments in
lished in Uruguay. There have in the past, how-
his residence. A search of Sagara's residence
ever, been isolated instances of clandestine
on March 17, 1944, failed to establish that
importation into Uruguay of Japanese language
Sagara had a radio transmitter. The secret
newspapers published in Buenos Aires.
compartments were located and numerous documents
Axis nationals are prohibited by law from
in Japanese were seized which, upon translation,
dwelling in the vicinity of defense establish-
were found to be of a personal character. It
ments and public utilities. This law is applied
was ascertained that Sagara maintained a "running
with considerable laxity. However, due to the
box score" of Allied Naval and shipping losses
small number of Japanese in Uruguay and their
as announced by Japanese Imperial Headquarters.
lack of activity, it does not appear that they
Translation of all the documents found in
are able to jeopardize the defense of the
Sagara's residence failed to reflect information
Western Hemisphere.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.95)
REPUBLIC OF URUGUAY
B3
R
RIVERA
E
BUENDS AIRES
U
RUGUAY, the smallest of South Ameri an Republies, is loated in the Southern Temperate
Zone. It ats as a "butter state" between its large neighbors, Argentina and Brazil. Its stra-
tegie loaton at the mouth of the Plata River makes it impotant in the plan tor Hemisphere
Detense. Uruguay has long been a close triend of the United States in the tield of international
polites, and is noted tor the historneal democratie attitude of its people and government.
Uruguay has taken the lead among South American nations in cooperating with the United
States in the present world crisis. It was the author of the proposal that the ships of the United
States be allowed to use South American ports with the rights of a non-belligerent under in.
ternational law, in case of an attack against the United States by a foreign power. Uruguay was
also a leader in the tight to break diplomatic and commercial relations with the Axis nations at
the Conference of Foreign Ministers of the W'estern Hemisphere at Rio de Janeiro, January, 1942.
At the present time the Uruguayan government is building a naval and air base near the At-
lantic Coast with funds loaned by the government of the United States. In case of necessity
this base may be used by any nation of the Western Hemisphere, but absolute sovercignity and
control will remain in the hands of Uruguay.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION
THE TOTAL AREA OF
APPROXI-
BRAZIL IS ONLY SLIGHT-
MATELY ONE
LY LESS THAN HALF
HALF OF THE TO-
OF THE WHOLE SOUTH
VENEZU
TAL INHABITANTS
AMERICAN CONTINENT
ELA
OF THE TEN REPUB.
LICS OF SOUTH
AMERICA ARE LO-
BR
FR
CATED WITHIN
SURINAM
GUIANA
BRAZIL
GUIANA
EQUATOR
EQUATOR
ECUADOR
R
B
E
U
20
20
THE
ONLY TWO
SOUTH AMERICAN
COUNTRIES WHOSE
BORDERS DO NOT
CONTACT THAT
OF BRAZIL
LOCATION OF BRAZIL IN
RELATION TO THE PANAMA CANAL
N
40°
E
750
H
G
1.500
MILES
M/LES
7250
R
MILES
CONTRARY TO POPULAR
BELIEF, SPANISH IS SPO
KEN BY ONLY HALF THE
POPULATION OF SOUTH
AMERICA THE LANGUAGE
OF BRAZIL IS PORTUGUESE
FB

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 143
Chapter 12
BRAZIL
BACKGROUND
ity, which has an area of 23,892 square kilo-
meters, there was in 1942 a population of 31,975,
Population and Location
of whom 22,604 were Japanese.
By 1934 there were an estimated 131, 709
Other Japanese settlements in the Amazon
Japanese residing in Brazil. Since 1934, how-
Valley are in the State of Amazonas, which is
ever, Brazil has had a quota system governing
said to have approximately 200 families, and
the entrance of Japanese into the country, and
also at Acara in the State of Para. Part of
as a result, Japanese immigration has decreased.
the latter colony is located at Tome-Assu and
The total Japanese population in Brazil as of
is now a concentration camp for Japanese of the
Detober, 1913, has been given as 206, 000. 0f
State of Para. For the most part the Japanese
this number, 158, 152 were over 18 years of age.
population in the Amazon Valley is extremely
The settlement of Japanese in Brazil has
sparse and aside fr m the above-mentioned col-
been c cifined largely to two major areas, the
onies, it is scattered throughout the jungle
valley of the Amazon River in the States of
along the various tributaries of the Amazon.
Amazonas and Para, and the State of Sao Paulo,
(me of the most extensive concentrations of
including the neighboring colonies in the States
Japanese in Brazil may be found in the eastern
ot Mato frosso and Parana.
part of the State of Sao Paulo. This area
The largest concent ration of Japanese in the
stretches from Santos to Juquia, Iguape and
entire Amazon Valley is the colony in the area
Cananeia a long the Iguape River Valley. The
surrounding the city of Parint ins, at proximately
largest settlement within this area is in the
600 mi1es up the river from Belem and 274 miles
city of Registro, where it is estimated there
down ti: river fron Manos. In this municipal-
are 3,000 Japanese.
JAPANESE AND TOTAL NUMBER OF IMMIGRANTS
INTO BRAZIL, 1933-1939
Year
Total
Japanese
1933
46,081
24,949
1934
46,027
21,930
1935
29,585
9,611
1936
12,733
3,306
1937
34,677
4,557
1938
:9,388
2,524
1939
22,668
1,411
Source: Revista de Imigracao e Colonizacao,
Rio de Janeiro. October, 1940.
JAPANESE RESIDING ABROAD IN BRAZIL AND PERU
AND THE WORLD
(Numbers and Percent of World Total)
Year
Brazil
Percent
Peru
Percent
World
1904
5
4.3
1,486
1.1
138,591
1914
15,462
4.3
5,381
1.5
358,711
1920
33,456
6.2
5,910
1.1
541,784
1926
55,481
8.8
11,787
1.8
640,099
1929
103,166
13.0
18,041
2.3
795,018
1931
119,740
15.3
20,650
2.6
777,908
1933
157,476
21.0
21,281
2.8
749,158
1934
173,500
19.9
21,127
2.4
872,807
1936
193,057
19.8
22,570
2.3
977,115
1937
197,733
19.0
22,150
2.1
1,042,974
1938
170,165
16.1
21,503
2.0
1,059,913
Source: Japanese Foreign Office statistics
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
Japanese Land Holdings in
the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil
190,896
Japanese aliens in the state
of Sao Paulo
Vova Gutenade
Olympia
Itabusa
R1o Preto
Barretos
11
Ribereo Preto
Arasazube
4
Ararecuala
Pampete
Bauru
6
12
Ounhoes
Campinas
17
it ndena
10
Bindemonhsocatare
Sao Poulo
PAKN
Santos
13
14
15
16
Lidaappes
Key
LAND HOLDINGS
RAILROADS
AREA OF LAND HELD BY JAPANESE
NAME OF PROPERTY
ACREAGE
NAME OF PROPERTY
ACREAGE
IMMIGRANT ASSOCIATION UNION,
10 ATONOMIYA FARM
1.715
2. IMMIGRANT ASSOCIATION UNION.
CHIETE SETTLEMENT
29.400
11. ANIUROS FARM
2.940
ARIANSA SETTLEMENT
78,400
12. HIGASHIYAMA FARM
7.350
4 JAPANESE - BRAZILIAN COLONIZATION CO
5 IMMIGRANT ASSOCIATION UNION.
3 TARAMA FARM
3,0625
1.470
13 OVERSEAS INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE.
14 FURUYA FARM
SETTEPARES COLONY
137.200
1.225
6 NAITO FARM
BASUTOS SETTLEMENT
78.400
2.450
15 OVERSEAS INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE.
16 OVERSEAS INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE,
REGISTRO COLONY
44.100
7. JAPANESE - BRAZILIAN SYNDICATE
61,250
KATSURA COLONY
2107
9 IMMIGRANT ASSOCIATION UNION.
NOMURA FARM
8.575
17. HIGASHIYAMA AGRICULTURAL FARM
11.025
TRES BARROS SETTLEMENT
75,950
FBI

=== Page 220 === (confidence 1.00)
Page 145
In the western section of the State of Sao
communications. However, this connection does
Paulo, between Marilia and Bastos, there are
not extend to the settlements in the Curitiba
approximately 85,000 Japanese. Al1 the towns in
and Paranagua areas.
this region have been settled within the last
A survey of the largest Japanese concentra-
15 years. The main Japanese settlements are
tions in the State of Parana shows approximately
in the cities of Pompeia, Marilia and Lins.
12,000 Japanese families in the area bordering
Each of the first two cities has a Japanese
the Sao Paulo and Parana Railway. Cornelho
population of approximately 22,O00, which in
Procopio has about 5,000 Japanese families.
Marilia constitutes a third of the total popu-
Bandeirantes has a population of 8,000 Japanese.
lation of the municipality. The city of Lins
Santa Mariana, which is closely linked with
has about 20,500 Japanese residents. There are
Bandeirantes, has 6,000 Japanese. Assai, with a
also large settlements of Japanese at Pereira
population of 7,000, is almost completely in-
Barreto where it has been estimated that 65,000
habited by Japanese. In this area is located
Japanese are concentrated in four colonies. At
one of the largest fazendas in the State known
Aracatuba there is a Japanese population of
as Tres Barras.
25,Oo0. The city of Bastos has a population of
Although some Japanese have settled in other
15,000 which is almost entirely composed of
states of Brazil, they are very few in number
Japanese. Japanese familics are scattered
and are not important. The State of Rio Grande
throughout the State of Sao Paulo.
do Sul, for instance, has a Japanese population
Most of the Japanese in Brazil are engaged
of only 136.
in agriculture and the majority of these are
Immigration Methods
settled on large "fazendas" or farms. Among the
more prominent of these in the State of Sao
The Japanese Government organized and spon-
Paulo are the Fazenda Tiete at Lussanvira,
sored "mass immigration" of its citizens to
whose manager is Tokuya Koseki; the Fazenda
Drazil. It was the first experiment of this
Bunka in the municipality of Paraguassu, with
kind in the history of Japan. The Japanese Gov-
approximately 1,200 families; the Fazenda Varpa
ernment enlisted the aid of various companies
in Pompeia; and the Fazenda Buenos Aires in the
such as Kaigai Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha. The
municipality of Bela Vista.
movement was also assisted by the two chief
The Japanese colonization in the northern
Japanese steamship companies, the Nippon Yusen
part of the State of Parana began in 1929. Sev-
Kaisha (N.Y.k.) and the Osaka Shosen Kaisha
eral thousand Japanese families had settled
(0. S. K.), which were subsidized by the Japa-
there by the early 1930's. The Japanese in
nese Government for this work. The colonizing
Northern Parana are closely linked sccially,
companies provided everything for the Japanese
economically and politically with the Japanese
immigrants and demanded from them blind obe-
in Sao Paulo because of good transportation and
dience.
JAPANESE RESIDENTS (MALES AND FEMALES)
IN BRAZIL AND PERU, I925-38
Brazil
Peru
Year
Male
Female
Male
Female
1925
27,336
22,064
7,397
3,095
1928
42,707
33,781
11,435
5,544
1931
68,112
51,628
13,301
7,349
1933
91,373
66,103
13,664
7,617
1936
107,682
85,375
14,280
8,290
1938
95,116
75,049
13,261
8,242
Source: Japanese Foreign Office statistics
NATIONALITY OF IMMIGRANTS INTO BRAZIL,
1940 AND 1939
1940
1939
Germans
4,180
1,975
Italians
4,253
1,004
Japanese
14,076
1,411
Poles
4,719
612
Portuguese
18,740
15,120
Source: Brazilian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Rio
de Janeiro, 1940
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.99)
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AREA COMPARISON
BRAZIL IS NINE PER CENT
LARGER THAN THE CON-
United States
TINENTAL UNITED STATES.
IT COVERS ABOUT ONE
3,026,789
HALF OF THE ENTIRE AREA
OF SOUTH AMERICA, AND
TOUCHES SEVEN OF THE
SQ. MILES
NINE OTHER SISTER RE-
PUBLICS.
Map Compares Area of Brazil
W'ith That of the United States
Total Area of Brazil
3,286,170 SQ. MILES

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 147
The Japanese had immigrated to other coun-
Brazil's Attitude
tries in Latin America prior to settling in
Due to the scarcity of labor, Brazil has
Brazil. Because of this they were able to
profit by their previous experience and even-
welcomed immigration. Colonization of Chinese
was tried during the middle of the 19th Century
tually became very systematic in establishing
their colonies.
and also following the adoption of the anti-
They had already learned that Japanese immi-
slavery law of September 28, 1871. In 1896
Brazil mentioned to the Japanese Government the
grants in different nations were iooked upon
desirability of immigration from Japan.
as laborers little better. than slaves; were
Migrations were not effective until 1908, at
distrusted for following "Pagan" religions; were
which time 158 families entered the country. As
resented as competitors; and, unless controlled
previously indicated, the greatest influx of
directly from Japan, soon abandoned theirnation-
Japanese to Brazil took place between 1920 and
al language, customs and loyalty. The Japanese
1930, following the destructive earthquake in
Government was determined that none of these
Japan. At this time Benito Mussolini, for
undesirable things would happen to the Jap-
nationalistic reasons, had restricted the flow
anese proceeding to Brazil. The method used
of Italian labor to Brazil, which gave more
to achieve this end was the establishment of
"settlement colanies," directed through cooper-
opportunities to the Japanese.
Official Brazilian instructions were given
atives, consulates and individual government
on June 30, 1925 for curtailing immigration.
officials from Japan.
Because of practical reasons, these instructions
Japanese immigrants were taught the language
were not applied until 1931. At this time,
and customs of Brazil, so that they would be
through the Ministry of Labor, a policy of
better able to adapt themselves to living condi-
selection was formulated. The requirements, how-
tions there.
ever, did not apply to the Japanese, as they
Mass immigration was first attempted by the
entered Brazil under a "contract" and "special
concessions" system. Hence, their numbers
Japanese in Brazil during 1898 and again in 1907.
These efforts were not too suecessful. Follow-
steadily increased.
ing World War 1, the Japanese system of immigra-
During July of 1934, the Brazilian Govern-
ment passed legislation restricting all immi-
tion commenced to meet wi th suecess and flour-
grants, including Japanese, although some of the
ished until the beginning of World War II.
latter were adaitted as being exceptions to this
During this period of expansion there ap-
new legislation. The Brazilians subsequently be-
peared such trade-promoting organizations as the
came divided on the Japanese issue. Some were
Japan-Chile Trade Association, Japan-Mexico
strongly in favor of admitting Japanese while
Association, Japanese War Investigation Commit-
others were as strongly opposed. During 1938
tee, and Latin American Japanese Society. Japan
and 1939, more 1aws were passed limiting the
also participated strongly in the Panama-Pacific
liberties of immigrants who insisted on maintain-
International Exhibition in Panama. The Japa-
ing their own languages, customs, and loyalties,
nese later organizeo exhibits of their own and
refusing to be amalgamated.
erected them in business museums at Santiago,
Chile and Buenos Aires, Argentina. In 1924, the
Colonization
Japanese Government. sent to South America a new
mission which resul ted in the facilitation of
Almost all Japanese colonization in Brazil
immigration to Brazil. The Uverseas Immigration
was supported by a number of large Japanese com-
Society Act of 1927 laid a foundation for the
panies which were organized and subsidized by
crestion of cooperative societies to be operated
the Japanese Government for that specific pur-
exclusively by the Japanese immigrants. The
pose. These companies persuaded Japanese colo-
purpose of the cooperatives was to weld the
nists to come to Brazil. They arranged for
Japanese in Brazil into one economic, social,
their transportation and either bought from or
political and spiritual unit. Further central-
were granted by the Brazilian Government large
ization of these societies and their members was
tracts of land. This land they sold to the colo-
effected when an over-all federation was formed
nists on long-term installment plans. The colo-
in 1927. 1t was known as the Kagai Iju Kumiai
nization of Brazil by Japanese is said to have
Kengokai (The Association of Overseas Emigra-
been one part of a broad plan by the Japanese
tion Partnerships). This Federation of Japanese
Government to expand economically and political-
Societies in Brazil had resul ted from the merger
1y throughout Asia and South America.
of Japanese immigration companies in 1917 into
The agricultural products of the various
what was known as the Kaigai Kogyo Kabushiki
Japanese colonists in Brazil have been disposed
Kaisha (The Overseas Development Company, Ltd.)
of through a number of "Cooperatives" which were
By later absorbing other companies this huge
directly controlled by the various Japanese
immigration entérprise became practically the
colonization companies. The best known of these
sole unit of i ts kind in Japan. It is evident
companies is the Kaigai Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha,
that the Japanese Government as a guiding power
more popularly known as the K.K.K.K. This com-
systematically provided for the control of the
pany was founded in 1917 in Japan for the pur-
Japanese immigrants from the time they boarded
pose of promoting international development. It
the ships in Japan to their death years later in
operated branches in Australia, the Philippines
Brazil, still loyal subfects of the Mother
and Brazil. The main office of this company was
Country.
located in the town of Registro, State of Sao
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.97)
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
AXIS POPULATION
EACH SYMBOL REPRESENTS 50,000 PERSONS
These igures are estmates mado by an indomational popudation
epet be n the re fl Bran c g
for 1940 Hn conclusons are believed to be conservativa.
400,000
Nationals
Brazilian
800,000
Born
Descendents
Total
Italians
1,200,000
Italian
Population
Nationals
160,000
Brazilion
45,000
Bom
Descendents
Japanese
Japanese
Total
205,000
Population
100,000
Nationals
Brazilian
260,000
Born
Descendents
Germans
Total
360,000
German
Population
660,000
Nationals
Brazilian
1,105,000
Born

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.99)
Paulo. Aifo Hirota, the manager of the company
any enterprise or company organized by him for
in Registro, is one of the leaders of the Japa~
installation and exploitation of agricultural
nese Colony there.
nuclei." Subsequently Fukuhara transferred
The business activities in each of the Japa-
the concession to an organization known as.
nese colonies are almost entirely controlled by
Companhia Nipponica de Plantacao. Although
Japanese. The economic life of each of these
many Brazilians, including part of the press,
settlements functions through the Cooperative,
protested against the concession on the grounds
which, in turn, is controlled by the several
that the Japanese were not complying with the
large Japanese colonization companies. It
law and constituted a unit of potentially dan-
appears that the cooperatives are based on a
gerous aliens, an examination of the decree
semi-feudal system. The colonization companies
under which the concession was granted would
keep the Japanese settlers constantly in debt
seem to indicate that even in compliance with
through payment and the purchase of land and
the law, they could, in effect, set up a prac-
supplies.
tically independent and autonomous state.
The following are some of the most important
Under the legislative act which granted the
Cooperatives in Brazil:
concession, the grantees were empowered to con-
The K.K.K.K. reportedly controls the Japa-
struct railroads, maintain experimental agricul-
nese settlements in northern Parana and also has
tural stations, use water power existing outside
branches (Kokuko Imin Ka isha and Takemura Imin
the territory conceded, construct airfields with-
Kaisha) in the State of Para.
in the territory, erect factories, and establish
• Tres Barras located at Assai, State of Para,
banks. The act provided exemption from all tax-
is said to have 563 Japanese members and 487
ation or imposts for 50 years, and numerous
Brazilian members. It is stated that there are
other rights and immunities, including the power
1,500 families on the fazenda and that 1, 200 of
to create and maintain free schools for primary
these are Japanese.
instruction.
Companhia Nipponica de Plantacao do Brasil
at Belem. State of Para;
Xavier de Oliveira, former member of the
Chamber of Deputies in Brazil and Professor at
Amazonia Sangyo k.k., whose Iand in the State
ot Amazonas has been devoted to the produetion
the University of Brazil, known as an opponent
of Japanese immigration for many years, pub-
of jute;
Nambei Takushoku K.K., which holds a large
lished a book entitled "0 Problema Imigratorio
tract of Iand in the State of Para and whose
na America Iatina," which purports to be an
head office is in the State of Belem;
extensive study of the subject. His activity is
believed to have played an important part in
Cooprativa Agricola Mixta is located at
resolving the problem and bringing about the
Pompeia, State of Sao Paulo. It is reported
recent action of the present Brazilian Govern-
that 95" of the business in that city is oper-
ment in revoking the concession above discussed
ated by Japanese.
and in placing all members of the Japanese
Segui è Companhia is located in the vicinity
colony under strict police observation.
of Marilia, State of Sao Paulo, where it is
A rather thorough study of the Japanese
claimed that 80g of the taxes are paid by the
problem in Brazil has given rise to statements
Japanese. This city is considered to be the
to the effect that the Japanese are connected
largest cotton market in Brazil.
with their country by a discipline which, in
Sociedade Colonizadora do Brasil is located
practice, is really fanaticism. Their colonies
at Bastos, State of Sao Paulo, where practically
were impenetrable to outside observers and
all business is controlled by the Japanese.
really constituted states within the state for
This cooperative has 1, 200 members.
many years, ignoring Brazilian habits and cus-
Companhia Kai Kau, also known as the Compart
toms and hiding their own from the eyes of the
hia Migracao Japones, one of the largest Japa-
Brazilians.
nese colonization companies, has its offices on
Since their original settlement in Brazil,
the third floor of the Yokohama Specie Bank
the Japanese have always maintained a social
Build ing in the city of Sao Paulo.
li fe separate from that of the Brazilians. They
All these Japanese enterprises have rendered
remain chiefly in their own colcnies where the
invaluable assistance in colonization.
customs and traditions of Japan continued to
SOCIAL PENETRATION
prevail until 1938. At this time, the Brazil-
ian Government undertook a program of national-
From the point of view of actual numbers,
ization. Before 1938 the Japanese had their
the problem raised by Japanese migration and
own schools in which Japanese language, history,
settlement in Brazil might be considered more
geography and cul tuire were taught. The Japanese
important than that arising out of the German
colonies had been self-sufficient and self-
and Italian immigration. The Japanese popu-
governing through their own municipal officers,
lation of Brazil constitutes the largest colony
newspapers and churches. Since 1938 the Brazi1-
of Japanese outside the Japanese Empire.
ian Government has forbidden the teaching of
In the State of Para alone the Brazilian
the Japanese language and has closed all Japa-
Government granted a concession of more than
nese schools. The publication of Japanese news-
1,030, 000 hectares of 1and in 1928 for Japanese
papers and magazines has been outlawed. The
colonization. The recipient of this concession
speaking of the Japanese language in public has
was "the Japanese subject Hachiro Fukuhara or
been officially prohibited. Prior to 1938
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 150
there were 180 Japanese schoo1s in Brazi1 with
by the Brazilian Government, there have been
a tota1 of 26, 000 students. Two hundred five
numerous instances in which Japanese schools,
of these schools were in Sao Paulo alone.
clandestinely operated. nave been uncovered by
POLITICAL PENETRATION
the local authorities.
Diplomatic Representation
The Japanese ltave nehieved to some extent
poliiical penetra,ion of Brazil as well as
Prior to the break of relations between the
socia?. This has been mainly due to their large
two countries, Japan maintained an Embassy in
numbers, contralized control a. saccess in
Rio de Janeiro and Consulates in other cit its of
agriculture and comerae. w  is tackground
Brazil, When diplomatic relations ceased, the
they have been able t, fin nce individual
Japanese Government requested that the Counselor
poliiicians either three e1 friendship,
of the Japanese Embassy, Masakatsu Nosaki, be
bribery, or political anl tinancial pressure.
allowed to remain in Brazil with his family to
Some of the Japanese political power has
handle Japanese interests. A similar request
been generated through their various organiza-
was made concernin, Nacnori Ishihara, who was to
tions which have solidly weIded these people
remain in Sao Paulo. With respect to five Japa-
into one indivisible unit having identical
nese diplomats in Belem, however, they were de-
soc: 1 ideals, tt itndes, and modes of action.
ported on the "Gripsholm" on June 2, 1942. In
Propaganda  I o faeili tated the development
view of this action the Japanese in Brazil no
of unifiel fforts among them.
longer enjoy any effective official connection
Their propaganda, however, in Brazil has
bet ween Brazil and the government of Japan.
been aimed chiefly at uniting the Japanese
COMMERCE
themselres and maintaining their loyalty to
It has been est imated that 93 per cent of
Japan rather than any general publie propaganda
the Japanese in Brazil are engaged in agricul-
campaign to spread Japanese cul ture or create
ture, 2 per cent in industry and the remainder
sympathy for Japan among the Brazilians.
in commereial cnterprises. The major agricul-
Informat ion was received in January, 1912,
tural produets of the Japanese are coffee, cot-
that the Japanese Government was organiz ing
ton, vegetables. rice, silk, rubber, jute and
political propaganda in Latin America with
bananas. The value of Japanese agricultural
Argentina, Chile and Brazil as centers and that
produets in the State of Sao Paulo has been es-
Suetaka Hayao, Second Seeretary of the Jap mese
Embassy in Brazil, was in eharge of Japtpese
timated at 810,616 contos (U.S. $40, 532, 300)
annually, or approximately 16 to 17 contos (U.S.
propaganda activities in this country an:
Ss00 to $850) annually per family. There are
assisted by four resident Japanese and tre
Brazilians who worked secret ly. The propa teta
reported to be 73 Japanese factories in the
State of Sao Paulo with a total capital of
was stenciled, printed and dist ributed by the
11, 130 contos (U.S. $546, 500).
Japanese Embassy, both by hand and by mail.
Early in 1912, a 1arge number of Japanese
The major part of the industrial and commer-
were arrested by the Sao Paulo Pol ice in the
cial interests of the Japanese in Brazil has
been concent rated in two groups, the Casa Tozan
Japanese colony at Mogi das Cruzes because of
Ltda., and the Bratae group.
political activities, and at toe time of the
arrest, a mimeograph machine sns reportedly
The main office of the Casa Tozan is at
found in the possession of those arrested. It
Rua Benjamin Constant 83, Sao Paulo. The heads
of this industrial group are Shin kimitsuka.
was thought that this machine was used to print
Fugio Mirukani and kioshi Yamamoto.
propaganda.
The Japanese organizat ion, Fukei kivai (Asso-
A subsidiary of this firm is the AMgodoeira
ciation of Friends of the Japanese School) dis-
do Sul, Ltda., a cot ton firm of whi ch the heads
tributea Japanese propaganda. The Casa Bratac
are Goro Mori and Hideo Tasanoushi.
The Bratae interests are bel ieved te be con-
printed newspapers and pamphlets for distribu-
tion amone the Japanese. Japanese fiIms have
trol led by tne Mit sui Company in Japan. Th
been shown in the Japanese colony at Reg istro,
meneral maneger in Brazil formerly was car los Y.
kato. The main office is located in the City (t
State of Sto Paulo. In the town of Lins, Sao
Paulo, a seckly paper was published in Japanese
Sao Paulo and the Rio de Janeiro orriee 1s lo-
cated at Avenid: Grrea Aronha B27. The ro1low-
and was known as te "Sant a America Weekly Re-
port." All this activity had a political con-
ine fi ras are ine tuded in the Brate group:
tent and purpose.
Casa Baneari t Brat ae. a banking tirm whese
The print ing and dist ribut ion of pronaganda
head is Carlos Y. hate.
material by Japanese at the present time is al-
Casa Bretae, Ltda., generai 1 porrers and
most impossible in view of the strietly enforced
exporters whose heads are kunito viasst. C-
Brazilian prohibit ion of any publicat ions in
Los Y. kato, Dr. Bemedito Costa Neto. Seny iro
Axis languages. However, reports have been re-
Hatanaka, Shiguezo Okada. and Sakte Mishihara.
ceived from time t, timee that. a few publ icat ions
Brazeot, Ltdt., cot ton firm wnose iiesds are
in the Japanese language have cont inued to be
Tatsunosuke Harada, Shota kan/aki. Corlos Y.
produced clandest in ly in heavi ly popul at ed Japa-
Kato, Shin kimit suka. and Ryeji hat
nese colonies.
Algodoei ra Bratae, Ltda., a cotton firm
Japanese schools heave al so cont ri buted to
whose hetads are kuni te vyasaka, terles Y. kat o.
the development and dist ribut ion of polit ical
Sakae Ni shiharo, Shiguezo okada. nd kurokn
propaganda. Despite the closing of these schools
AW1ZU.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPHLATINAMIICA
★

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.95)
Page 151
Empresa Brasileira de Winercao, Ltda., a
Since the break of relations between the two
mining firm;
countries, the Brazilian Government has liqui-
Fabrica de Adubos Esperanca, a fertilizer
dated many Japanese companies in Brazil and has
company;
placed Federal administrators over the remainder.
Sociedade Colonizadora do Brasil, Ltda.,
It was reported that in July, 1944, the Japanese
which owns four fazendas or farms:
Government, through the Spanish Ebassy, pro
BastosRancharia
tested the liquidation of Japanese firms in
Tiete at Lussanvira
Brazil, but the local Government continued its
Allianca at Morandopclis
activity along these lines.
Tres Barras at Jatahy with approximately
In a report by a Sao Paulo police official
21, 000 emp1oyees.
on the resul ts of a journey through the north=
One of the largest Japanese commercial firms
eastern sectton of the State of Sao Paulo, which
dealing in general imports and exports is Mine-
he made for the specific purpose of surveying
tani Shokai in Rio de Janeiro. The following
Japanese activilies, the following observations
ar fi rms whose head offices are in Japan and
were made:
which maintain branches in Brazil:
The city of Marilia, founded some 14 or 15
Yekohama Shokin Ginko (Yokohama Spee ie Bank),
years ago and considered to be the largest cot-
Rio de Laneiro.
ton market in Brazil, is completely dominated
Osaka Shosen K. K. (o. S. K. Line), Rio de
f'rom an economic point of view by the Japanese.
Emeiro.
Approximately 22,000 of its inhabitants, consti-
haigai kogyo K. k. (colonization company).
tuting about one-third of its population, are
Sao Paulo.
Japanese or descendants of Japanese, and 80 per
Nichinan Sangyo K. K., Sao Paulo.
cent. of the tax collections from industries and
Higashiyama Noji K. K. (agricultural pro-
professions are paid by Japanese. of a total of
duets). Sao Paulo.
71,000 contos of banking investments, used al-
Toyo Menka K. h. (cot ton firm), Sao Paulo.
most completely for financing agricultural ac-
Nihon Menka k. k. (cot t on firm), Sao Paulo.
tivities, 60, 000 contos are in the hands of
Brssil Menka k. k. (cot ton f'irm), Sao Paulo.
Japanese farmers, while at the same time the
oter Ipane companj which are known to
Japanese banking establishments are in the
treve funet ioned in Braeil are the following:
minority. Their investments represent only
Mit sui Bussan k. K. (t rading company), Sao
about 7 per cent of the total financing of their
Poulo.
farmer compatriots. In the field of production,
Nomura Gomei (t rading company), Sao Paulo.
the Japanese are also in the lead. It has been
estimated that the Japanese produce two-thirds
\ihon keori n. k. (soolen goods), Sao Paulo.
of the annual cotton crop of about 5, 500,000
Casa Hashiya, al o known as Hashiyi turou,
arrobas, and about 80 per cent of the grain.
6s8 Avenida Brigadeiro Tobias, Sao Paulo.
Forty per cent of the coffee production is in
Compannia Boratae, Largo de Se B99, Sao
the hands of alien producers.
Panl.
Cã: Matomu, Ru Consol reao 55s, São Paulo.
One of the largest firms dealing in cotton,
Casa lokyo, now Casa Moreis, Rua Santa Efi-
cof'fee, and rice is the Japanese firm, Segui
genia 31, Sao Paulo.
. Companhia, headed by Tetsurei Segui, a natu-
Sanko kabusiki kaisya Company.
ralized Brazilian whose estate is valued at
Prondutos Agricolos. L.t da., Praca 15 de Novem-
almost 3,000 contos, or $150,000.
Intil Brazil severed diplomatic relations
bre s\, Room 36, Ri de Janeiro. This f'i rm was
with Japan, Japanese activities were carried on
Tormerly Located at Roe Mayrink Verga s, Rio de
openly in Marilia through judo and jiujitsu
Lonei ro, and mainta ined a warenhouse at Avenida
clubs, schools of Japanese floral art, and pri-
Rodrigues A1ves 791. Ar this address there was
mary schools. Japanese leaflets containing
lo lorated tee tooperat rva Agricola de Cotia.
political or patriotie propaganda were printed
Fabrica Botoes de Madriperola (pearl but ton
from plates furnished by the Japanese Consulate
tactory), wi th offices at Rua Mayrink Veiga 25.
and freely distributed. It has been pointed
Third Floor, faetory at Estrada Vicente de Car-
out that the non-Japanese professional men of
valho 1535, Rio de Janciro, and a branch ottice
in Sao Paulo at Rua Senador Feijo 169.
the city kept Japanese interpreters and exhib-
Industrias Yamagata, Ltda., Sao Pedro d'Al-
ited signs in both Portuguese and Japanese.
deL:, muni ipal ity of Ararnama, State of Rio de
The observer also pointed out that at the
Janeiro.
time the investigation was made, the local po-
Fibro-Quimica, Itda., Avenida Almirante
lice authorities had done nothing toward iden-
Barroso go, Rio de Janeiro.
tifying leaders and breaking up the centers of
uzaki Syeseu kaisya. Sao Paulo.
Japanese subversive activities.
Cia. de Mineracao do Apiai. This company,
Another city which is a large center of
shich ploits mines at the Morro da ouro in the
agricul tural production and contains many large
Apiai Distrtet of Sao Paulo, is under the con-
business firms and banking es tablishments is
trol ot the Brazilian Joao Batista Anhaia de A1-
Lins. Its Japanese population numbers 20, 500,
meida Prado, Alias, Boni. This man has been
including Brazilian-born Japanese. In general,
close1y conneeted wi th Casa Bratae and has re-
the description of activities at Marilia can be
portrdly visited Japan twice. He is allegedly
applied to Lins, including the remark that the
very pro-lapanese and speaks Japanese fluent ly.
police and municipal authorities were compara-
Parna Menea, Ltda., Cambara, Parana.
tively inactive.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 152
The city of Bastos, due to the extreme densi-
which owns the single tract constituting Bastos,
ty of its Japanese population, was given special
Pereira, Barreto, Aliancas, and other nearby
attention by the investigator. Its colonization
Japanese centers. All questions which would
dates back about 14 years to the time when an
ordinarily involve the police or the judiciary,
organization affiliated with the Bratac firm
even in criminal matters, were settled by the
purchased about 13,000 alquieres of land from
Japanese "judge," and it was only on rare oc-
the heirs of one Colonel Henrique Bastos. The
casions that Brazilian authorities knew what had
present manager of the company, Sengiro Hatanaka,
taken place. A complete registration of all
together with other agents, devoted two years
Japanese was maintained in duplicate - a civil
to preparing for the colonization of the land by
registry record to comply with Brazilian legis-
marking off lots, building roads, setting up a
lation and another record written in Japanese
sawmill, and establishing a pottery. In the cen-
which was transmitted to the various Japanese
ter of the area a section was set off as a point
consulates. Japanese cul ture prevailed and was
of convergence for all roads cutting through the
kept alive principally by home instruction, and
subdivision. This central portion later became
secret schools where the Japanese language, ge-
the town of Bastos.
ography, history, customs, and philosophy were
After the preliminary work had been complet-
taught. The undesirability of mixed marriages
ed, Japanese families began to arrive from Japan
was also stressed in this Japanese education,
and the colonization proceeded so quickly that
together with the belief that the Japanese are
the present population of Bastos has reached
predestined to rule the world and that only
15,000. The rural population is composed of
Nipponese culture and civilization can create
about 75 per cent Japanese and 15 per cent of
happiness and establish human stability.
Japanese born in Brazil. Among the important in-
All of the agricultural production in Bastos
dustries in Bastos are two silk spinning fac-
is reported to be monopolized by the cooperative
tories and one weaving mill. Agriculture is
of the colonization company and the system under
controlled by an agricultural cooperative system
which it operates is described as semi-feudal.
of about 1,200 members. All of the business in
The colonists were recruited in Japan from the
Bastos is controlled by Japanese with the excep-
lowest classes and their preparation and travel-
tion of two small enterprises owned by Syrians.
ing expenses were advanced by the colonization
The usual judo and jiujitsu clubs existed and
company. The colonists, having arrived in Bra-
the Japanese ritual sport, Kendo, was also
zil, were furnished with a piece of land of be-
practiced. It was reported that the Japanese
tween five and ten alquieres which was sold to
bookshops were filled with literature and propa-
them under a long-term loan arrangement. Then
ganda in favor of Japan and that Japanese was
each colonist was provided with the necessary
the common language of the city.
seed and equipment and placed further in debt.
His produce, which was transported by the Japa-
nese transportation company, was taken to the
cooperative and bought by that organization at
the most convenient price. The value of the
sale was then credited to the colonization com-
pany with very little benefit to the colonist,
who was forced to continue to work to pay for
installments due on the purchase of his farm.
The resulting economic slavery is reported by
the observer to have facilitated political con-
trol, and the collectivism above described re-
sul ted in the control by the manager of the
colonization company and the cooperative of the
whole Japanese community. In Bastos even public
service utilities are in Japanese hands. The
mail agency is held by a Brazilian Japanese,
Tadao Hatanaka, son of the manager of the colo-
nization company, who also occupies the position
of bookkeeper for the company. The colonization
company also owns the telephone system of 190
kilometers of line and the central telephone
station is in the hands of two Japanese opera-
tors who note all calls, making a separate rec-
ord of those made by Brazilians. The public and
private lighting systems are the property of the
cooperative association and, as has already been
GENERAL VIEW OF PROPAGANDA MATERIAL, AND PHOTO-
mentioned, the transportation business is con-
GRAPHS OF ROYAL FAMILY.
trolled by the Bastos Transportation Company
The political organization was allegedly
under Japanese control.
controlled by two commercial firms - the agri-
It appears that this absolute Japanese con-
cul tural cooperative, which is affiliated with
trol resulted from laxity on the part of Bra-
the system of Japanese agricultural cooperatives
zilian officials who had succumbed to the Japa-
controlled by the central cooperative in Sao
nese art of flattery and, in some instances,
Paulo, and the Brazilian colonization company
monetary remuneration. This, in turn, is said
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 153:
to have been made possible because of the low
attention of the authorities and, after consid-
salaries of those Brazilian officials who are
erable delay, an investigation was made-unof
charged with public authority. To illustrate
ficially. It was then discovered that the
the point, it may be pointed out that the night
school was actually a military training school
watchman in the city was formerly paid by the
and housed a printing plant used for Japanese
cooperative instead of by the city auhorities.
propaganda purposes. The most powerful Japanese
Al though the specific evidence was ascer-
company located in this section of the State of
tained of a concerted movement on the part of
Sao Paulo is the K. K. K. K., the Kaigai Kogyo
Japanese against Brazil, the possibility existed.
Kabushiki Kaisha, known also as the Companhia
Reliable sources were disturbed by the predi-
de Colonizacao e Commercio, and as the Company
le tion of the Japanese for pootography, by the
for International Development.
careful way in which their cotton and rice
It was pointed out, as an illustration of
fields are cleared so as to be suitable for
the ineffectiveness of the local Brazilian au-
emergeney landing fields, and by the location
thorities, that the power plant at Registro,
of their settlements, either on the shore, or
which supplies the surrounding countryside is
along railroads and in valleys. of particular
in the hands of one Midori Yoshioka, a Japanese
interest was the Japanese effort to keep their
who operates it wi thout having been granted the
colonies free from Brazilian contagion and the
required concession by the Government or permis-
fact that they had establ ished themseIves as
sion of any kind. The population of Registro is
racial minorit is of the Nazi type wi thin Bra-
almost completely Japanese, and from this point
/ilian territory. After the rupture of rela-
along the road to the city of Sao Paulo, through
Lions between Brazil and Japan, the Japanese
the towns of Piedade and Cotia, Japanese farms
sere sand to have inereased their purchase of
and families predominate. From Registro, their
rodio set. een at exorbitant prices. It was
small farms extend all the way to the coastal
tr t ni nt indicate eagerness to keep
towns of Iguape and Cananea, located respective-
in cor. tt witn Japan.
1y opposi te the north and south ends of Iiha Com-
prida. It may be of interest to point out that
in this section of Brazil large tea plantations
have sprung up and are being operated almost ex-
clusively by Japanese. They are also engaged
in the fishing industry and there are indica-
tions that they have been successful in competi-
tion with Brazilian fish processors only because
of the fact that they fail to comply with Gov-
ernment regulations and are thus enabled to
undersell their competitors.
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES
In view of the numerical strength of the
Japanese in Brazil and their political-social
GENERAL PROPAGANDA MATERIAL WITH SAMURAI SWORD
IN CENTER.
Lroanese-owned farms and banana plantat lons
extend lon: the coast of Sao Paulo below Santos
and l ine the rail road which runs fron Santos
southwest to Juquia. The center of Japanese
tetivities in this section of the state is lo-
cat ed in the town of Registre, where most of
tthe business is owned by lapanese. Some of
these men are considered dangerous to the
nat ional security of Brazil.
on the Hha de Boavista, Tocated near Regis-
tro, th: Japanese establi shed an agronomy sehoo1
which they operated solely for Japanese stu-
dents. Since such exelusiveness is prohibited
PROPAGANDA POSTER SHOWING MILITARY AND AIR
by Brazilian law, the matter was brought to the
STRENGTH STRESSING DIVERSITY OF WEAPONS.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 154
solidarity their efforts at subversive activi-
Spring of 1941 and spent a short time at the
ties have been proportionately greater than in
Hooper Foundation in San Francisco. He then
other Latin-American countries. However, their
visited the University of Michigan and obtained
accomplishments in this sphere have not been
a letter of introduction to one of the staff of
sufficiently effective to seriously threaten
the Rockefeller Foundation in New York recommend-
the security of that country.
ing him to the head of the Foundation in Rio de
Among subversive documents seized in the
Janeiro. However information was received by
systematic searches of Japanese establishments
the Foundation there that no thing was known
and residences were several which appeared to
about his background and when he applied in
indicate a threat to Brazilian political integ-
Rio de Janeiro for admission to the Laboratory
rity. Wanciro Hanogae stated that Japan would
it was refused.
soon attack South Africa and later Brazil, possi-
It has been said that there might be some
bly through the State of Sao Paulo. It was made
connection between Dr. Hayakawa's activities
evident to the various Brazilian police organi-
and those of Dr. R. Naito, who in 1939 attempted
zations that many of the Japanese, ostensibly
to obtain from the Rockefeller Foundation in
humble farmers, were in reality members of the
New York a vial of yellow fever virus. When
Japanese military organization at home, and it
this was refused, an unsuccessful attempt was
was thought quite probable that these military
made, by unknown persons, to bribe a trusted
men were stationed in Brazil for the express
employee of the Foundation to obtain the virus.
purpose of eventually aiding in a Japanese in-
Sabotage
vasion.
Nobura Hara, a silk farmer who lives near
Sabotage activities by the Japanese in Bra-
the City of Riberon Preto, State of Sao Paulo,
zil have taken the form of destruction of crops
was born in Japan and originally came to Brazil
which might be of value to the Allied Nations,
in 1932. 0n January 15, 1943, he mailed a 1et-
and a decrease in the production of these crops
ter to Tomessaku Wakigawa in the State of Minas
through neglect or refusal to work on the part
Geraes. In this letter he wrote, "We are part
of tne Japanese who produce them.
of the Brazilian 'Ten-Ri-Kyo' whose main task is
It was noted in March of 1942 that the pro-
to realize the great principle of the 'hakk-o-
duction of tea and cachaca (a local alcoholic
ichi-t' (Whole World Inder one Roof). We be-
beverage) by the Japanese in the Bereira Valley
lieve that the Anglo-American problem will take
in Sao Paulo was decreasing considerably with a
three years to solve. " Hara is, by nis own
resul ting reduction in the Federal income from
admission, a Japanese priest who heads in Brazi1
taxes on these products. In December, 1912, a
a rel igious seet which is well known in Japan.
fire destroyed the rubber trees in a small area
Relative to probable participation of Japa-
in the Amazon Valley, but there was no evidence
nese in plans for bacteria warfare, attention
that the destruction was caused by sabotage, al-
has been directed to the fact that Dr. Kiyosi
though some Japanese were arrested and later re-
Hayakawa made persistent but unsuccessful ef-
leased. Numerous Japanese are used in the de-
forts to gain access to the laboratory of the
velopment of rubber trees in the Amazon Valley,
Rockefeller Foundation in Rio de Janeiro. Dr.
and it appears that they attempted a general
Hayakawa traveled to the United States in the
slowing-up of the rubber program. There have
been several instances of neglect of rubber and
nut plantations in the Parintina area in the
Amazon Valley.
In April, 1944, it was reported that six
silkworm cocoon houses in Marilia, State of Sao
Paulo, had been burned. The police arrested
Iwao Takassuji who admitted that he had delib-
erately planned the burning. He also stated
that he was the author and distributor of cer
tain leaflets printed in the Japanese language
which had been distributed to Japanese citizens
of Marilia asking them to stop their production
of mint and silk inasmuch as these products
were aiding the Allied Nations in their war
against Japan. Another Japanese, Massahiro
Fujii, confessed, upon interrogation by the po-
lice, that he was aware of the contemplated acts
of sabotage but stated he took no active part
in the perpetration of the crime. He did ad-
mit that he helped furnish some guns that were
carried by the individuals involved.
There are indications that a plan was formu-
lated to burn all the silk and mint plantations
in the State of Sao Paulo, thereby preventing
the Allied Nations from using these products.
In connection with this a letter was found in
GENERAL VIEW OF COLLECTION OF PROPAGANDA MA-
the house of Jikijiro Iwaya which reflected
TERIAL.
the existence of a secret Japanese organization.
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 155
This letter read, in part: "It is the inten-
intensive propaganda in tended to unite the
tion of our society to wreck the lives of the
Japanese in Brazil obediently around the Japa-
Japanese who make menthol. Those who receive
nese imperial family. They were encouraged to
this notice, work no longer making menthol for
send their children back to Japan for education
the enemy or you will lose your life." This
so that Japanese culture might not be lost.
letter was signed "Legitimate Japanese Society
Officers in this organization were Ambo Sangiro,
that kills anti-Japan spies." The subjects
Kussiama Sikiti, Ranzo Ishiro, Shinzaku Hayashi,
who were arrested in connection with the burn-
Massagiro Sigmata, Takeo Nishiama, and Kitaro
ing of these crops reportedly belonged to two
Ambo. The organization was brought to the
secret Japanese organizations which apparently
attention of the authorities by the arrest of
have for their purpose the protection of Japa-
Heitaka Taira, who was found to possess docu=
nese interests in foreign countries. fhey are
ments showing his membership in it.
known as the Kokusuito kokuzoku and the Koku-
suito Tentuikume.
Although there were many rumors of an ex-
clusively military Japanese organization, no
concrete evidence existel until the discovery of
two documents in Japanese. Local authorities
in Brazil stated that the documents were trans-
lated and proved to be an incomplete skeleton
outline of a military organization. The small-
est unit described was to be made up of not more
than nine men, commanded by a corporal. At the
head of the organization was the "Japanese Mili-
tary High Command of Brazil." The plan stated
that the expenses of the first three days of
mobilization would be defrayed by the Japanese
Government. All Japanese were exhorted to
learn at once to handle arms, and were instruct-
ed to obey and respect the orders "for love of
Buddha and the Fatherland." All Japanese were
ordered to familiarize themselves with their
surroundings to facilitate action by the High
Command, and were instructed to keep the plan
seeret, even if force were used.
In this connect ion papers were also seized
in the possession of a Japanese in Sao Paulo in
June of 1912 nich read as fo1lows:
"All Doshi (Fellow Thinkers) are obedient
to the Party leader and orders of the Supreme
Command and will exert themsel ves in pursuit
CENERAL VIEW OF COLLECTION OF PROPAGANDA BOOKS
of Japanese military sciences and sports. They
AND MAGAZINES.
will esteem the firm union of soldier and farm-
Accordine to reports in June of li11, seven-
er. This document further states, "Without
teen Japanese were rrested at Assai, State of
Japanese language schools, our children will
Parant, for sett me rire to mint crops belone-
not grow into Japanese people. Down wi th indi-
ing to Bra/ i1 ians. These men were members of
Vidualism, revise capitalism, exterminate
the Sociedade Juventude de Sol Nascente. They
Communism" and also states, "Give us who live
were also aeeused r trev ine threatened their
in Brazil a society with the Imperial House as
neighbors with deth it they produeed goods to
its center." The document also asserts that
be used against Japan.
assimilat jon of the Japanese into the white
race is to be avoided at all costs.
Organizations
The Japanese also have various associations
Available evidence indi cates thar à  mber
which furnish hospitalization, as well as a
branch of the Young Men's Christian Association
of Japanese organi zat ions have opera d in
Brazil. The Japanese poli tical organi zat ion,
and Shinto religious seets. A group known as
the Athletic Association of the Sons of Japan
laisi Yonksan Doshi kai, which is reported to
be the Lapanese cotinterpart o1 the Nazi and
was reported to be a center for military drill
Fascist Parties, is reported to have established
and training by the Japanese. Al though it has
a branch in São Prulo.
been reported that the Japanese have denied
Yugo kusabake is said to have assumed the
the presence of any branch of the Black Dragon
di reet ion of the organizat ion after the repa-
Society in Brazil, the existence of the follow-
triation of the Japanese diplomats. This soci-
ing organizations was admitted:
ety allegedly had planned to take over the
State of Sao Paulo by armed force in case of t
deimusna kti
Japanese invasion of Brazil.
Nippon Jin kai
The Taisi Yohksan Doshi kai had as its aim,
Okido ken Jin Kai
among other things, the avoidanee of assimila-
Wutokukai
tion wi th Brazilians. This organization spread
Aikonu rujin kai
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH.LATINAMERICA

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 156
POSTER SHOWING PHOTOS OF ROYAL FAMILY.
COLLECTION OF JAPANESE PROPAGANDA BOOKS.
Espionage
None of this money was used to buy exports.
There are indications it may have been used for
It appears that the major part of Japanese
espionage or propaganda purposes.
espionage activities in Brazil has been carried
Prior to the break of relations between
on through Japanese commercial enterprises and
Brazil and Japan, espionage in Brazil was al-
agricultural cooperatives. This was done under
leged to be directed by the Counselor of the
the guidance and supervision of the Japanese
Japanese Embassy with the assistance of the
diplomatic representation in the country. It
Military, Naval and Commercial Attaches and
is known that the Japanese Ambassador, Itaro
the Secretary of the Ambassador, Suetaka Hayao.
Ishii, notified the Japanese Government that
The Domei News Agency correspondents were also
information had been furnished by Japanese
reported to be connected with Japanese Intelli-
firms in Rio de Janeiro whose expenses were
gence in Brazil.
paid by the Japanese Government. He requested
Intelligence activities of the Japanese in
that this practice be s topped inasmuch as sub-
Natal and Recife were said to be under the di-
sequent to the break of diplomatic relations.
rection of Tatsuo Ozaki, of the Japanese Consu-
Japanese funds would be frozen. In numerous
late in Belem. Information was secured reflect-
ins tances it has been reported that Japanese
ing that these Japanese made efforts to obtain
employees of various firms were associated with
data concerning airfields and the number of
espionage activities. In 1932, Toussui Aquiyama
American bombers passing through the northern
came to Brazil as a representative of the Japa-
section of Brazil.
nese fi rm, Hacniya I rmao and Company, and
It has been reported that all of the Japa-
worked for the newspaper, "Jornal do Brasil, "
nese agricultural cooperatives are directed by
in Rio de Janeiro until October of 1940, when
members of the Japanese armed forees and that
he resigned and commenced working for the Japa-
in 1912 there were 240 Japanese families on
nese Ambassador.
military reservations in Brazil. There have
The Nippon Trade Ageney has been reported
been several specific cases wherein Japanese
as a center and front for Japanese espionage
who were found to be posing as farwers or labor-
activities. In December, 1911, Toshio Komuro,
ers actually were members of the Japanese mili-
a representative of the Mitsui Company, arrived
tary.
in Sao Paulo and because of suspected espionage
On March 13, 1913, a 1etter was found in
activities, was requested to leave Brazil in
the street at Praca Maua, Rio de Janeiro, ad-
March of 1942. Misao Imaizumi, of the Japanese
dressed to a Mr. Katayama. This letter stated
firm, Sanko Kabusika Kaisya, was reported to be
that inasmuch as it was being delivered by hand,
an espionage agent.
it had not been ciphered. Enclosed were the
During the last half of 1911 the sum of
identification papers and passport of Carl Amos
$977,o00 was received by a number of Japanese
Parrot, an American merchant seaman. The let-
firms, including the following:
ter stated that the writer had gone to a great
Todao Kudo
Yomurai
deal of trouble to get Parrot drunk in order
Kaoru Hara
Yuzo Tomito
to secure the papers. He requested $200 for
T. Hirasawa
Toshio Komuro
the documents and pointed out that they would
Masuo 1maki
Casa Bratac
serve Franz Schultz in travel ing to the United
Y. Koko
Fazenda Barra Mansa
States. The letter further suggested that
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 157
Al fredo Koehler could make the necessary changes
It was learned that during the latter part
in the passport. It mentioned that five Eng-
of 1942 representatives of the Mitsui subsid-
lish and American passports had been obtained
iary, the Nambei Trading Company of Buenos
by members of the Sao Paulo Police, and that
Aires, were in correspondence with Japanese in
these passports could be used by Adolf loemke
Brazil under suspicious circumstances. Ryokichi
and Gustav Schrappe. The letter was signed
Nagai, las't known to be residing at Rua Hugo
Carl.
Bezeira 241, Rio de Janeiro, is known to have
Investigation disclosed that Parrot had be-
corresponded with members of the Buenos Aires
come intoxicated in one of the night clubs in
firm through the Brazilian attorney, Alberto
Rio de Janeiro and had awakened the next morn-
Goes Telles, Avenida Rio Branco 143, 4th Floor,
Ing in a park to find that his passport, identi-
Rio de Janeiro.
fication papers, shoes and belt had been stolen.
Nagai has been in contact with many Japa-
His only recollect ion was of having been with
nese in the city of Rio de Janeiro and one of
an unidentified hostess at a cabaret. It has
his most important contacts is Kanji Shirato,
been impossible to definitely identify either
who resides at Praia Botafogo 22, Apartment 402,
the writer or the addressee of the letter,
and is the owner of an import-export firm with
al though it is thought that the addressee may
offices at Rua do Rosario 69, Rio de Janeiro.
have been Renieo katayama, an employee of the
Shirato's firm, formerly known as Zaki Syirato
Cooperativa Agricola de Cotia.
and Company, was, prior to the severance of
diplomatic relations between Brazil and Japan,
a heavy buyer of strategic materials including
industrial diamonds and quartz crystal, which
were shipped to Japan.
Another suspicious Japanese in this city is
Takozo Hirota, also known as "Paulo," with resi-
dence at Rua Carbalho Monteiro 34. He is an
artist and his clientele is drawn from restau-
rants, bars and cafes in the city. He is known
to be a Japanese national, although he has
claimed to be a Chinese citizen. Hirota has
been in contact with Ryokichi Nagai under sus-
picious circumstances and seems to have an
unusual interest in shipping in the port of Rio
de Janeiro.
The only official representative of the
Japanese Government remaining in Brazil is
Suetaka Hayao who maintains an office in the
Spanisn Embassy at Rua Duvivier 43, Apartment 3,
He resides at Rua Garcia d'Avila 118 in the
Ipanema Section of Rio de Janeiro. Hayao spends
very little time in the Spanish Embassy. He is
COLLECTION OF PROPAGANDA MAGAZINES AND SMALL
FLAGS.
Information has been furnisted to the et-
feet that Arinori kawamura, a First Lieutenant
in the Japanese Navy, went to Cuba in 1935, rep-
resent ing himst lf as a travel ing agent of the
Japanese Cot ton Company. ile was said to be a
graduate in pol itical seienee and economies of
the Waseda Iniversity at Tokyo. Durine his stay
in Cuba, he made shhort trips to Haiti and Santo
Dom ingo. He es tabl isned an espionage and sabo-
tage service ror the Japanese in Cuba and ap-
pears to have taken special interest in labor
condit ions and unrest. He is reported to have
1tt Cuba in 1937 for Japan, and to have been
in South Arrica and Madagascar in 193s. He
entered Braz i1 in 1911 as à crew member of the
o. S. h. Limer Rio de Janeiro Maru. He is also
known as k. kawamura and A. Kawamura. ko Tanaka,
woss was seet to Cuba by the lapanese Department
1 Fronomie Propaganda and was later interned
in Cuba, was known to have received letters
trom kaowamura in Brtzil by way ot Santos, brazi1.
and Buenos Aires, Areent int.
COLLECTION OF JAPANESE PROPAGANDA RECORDINGS
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH.LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 158
contacted by many Japanese at his home. Ryo-
Fukus Okuma, a close contact of the Japanese
kichi Nagai, referred to above, is also known
Military Attache in Rio de Janeiro, known to
to have been in frequent contact with Hayao.
have been visited by Japanese from the States
Miochiro Adashi, a Japanèse suspected of
of Parana and Sao Paulo, was reported to be in
espionage, has been in contact with Hayao from
close touch with Fritz Fenthol, a German agent
time to time. Adashi runs a produce business
whose activities in behalf of the Nazis are well
at the Municipal Market at numbers 108, 110,
known both in the United States and Brazil.
and 112. This business fronts on the Rio de
Okuma was also connected with the Osaka office
Janeiro Harbor. Adashi is in constant contact
in Rio de Janeiro and is alleged to have given
with Japanese nationals and he apparently buys
his orders through one of its employees, Carlos
most of his produce from Japanese farmers who
Spozeto. Another of Okuma's satellites was a
reside at Santa Cruz. It is also known that in
Japanese named Nagashi, said to be a permanent
the past several Germans were in contact with
contact of the Japanese colonies at Mogy das
Adashi.
Cruzes and Cotia in the State of Sao Paulo.
Recognizing the potential seriousness of the
After diplomatic relations were broken off
Japanese problem in Brazil, the police probably
between Brazil and the Axis powers, information
exercised more control and were more vigilant
was received indicating that the Spanish Consu-
with respect to suspicious Japanese than they
Iate in Sao Paulo had been officially autho-
were with respect to the nationals of the other
rized to make itself available to the Japanese
Axis powers. Among the arrests made in Sao
consular officials and agents as a cover address
Paulo was that of one R. Casai, a Japanese
for the receipt of mail.
ostensibly engaged in farming. It was stated
The Japsa Case
that this calling was really a disguise and
The investigation in Brazil in this case
that Casai was a high official of tue Japanese
opened with the information that two communica-
Government. A search of his residence dis-
tions from Buenos Aires, Argentina carrying se-
closed that he possessed a technical library
cret messages, were sent to Dr. Alberto Goes
and several very accurate maps.
Telles and to Dr. Ary P. De Andrade Figueira,
One Tsuneharo Fujii was arrested and found
both of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
to be in possession of the uniform of a Japa-
The communication to Dr. Telles contained
nese captain and several maps containing sus-
data in Japanese. Subsequent information re-
picious markings. In Sao Paulo, a former
flected that these two communications were re-
Japanese general, Yuei Eonozawa, disguised as
lated to subversive Japanese activities in
a laborer, was arrested and found to be in
Argentina which were discussed in the previous
possession of Japanese medals, much correspond-
chapter carrying the same caption.
ence from Japanese authorities, and rifle am-
Dr. Alberto Goes Telles has been identified
munition. Also arrested in Sao Paulo was Seite
as a Brazilian lawyer who early in 1943 succeed-
Sato, a Brazilian of Japanese parentage who left
Brazil in 1936 and joined the Japanese Army to
ed Dr. Ary P. de Andrade Figuerira, another Bra-
zilian lawyer, as agent for the Sociedade Com-
fight in China. He then returned to Brazil.
ercial Nipo-Brasileira. Telles' daughter Lysette
In the city of Curityba, Parana, the police
took into custody one Habiro Habicara, a den-
at one time was employed by the Japanese Embassy
tist-pharmacist who they alleged was a general
in Rio de Janeiro and later by the Sociedade
in the Japanese Army. Also arrested in Curi-
Comercial Nipo-Brasileira.
tyba was Joao Kiuo Hirayama, said to be a
One of the communications to Dr. Telles
trained pilot of the Japanese Army. He was sub-
whic! coneerned two other men in Brazil, Ryokichi
sequently brought to Rio de Janeiro and impris-
Nagai and Suetaka Hayao expressed among other
oned. His occupation in Curityba was that of a
things the desire for frequent communications as
rice farmer. In the town of Tome-Assu, located
Brazil's at titude toward Japan had become more
about 70 miles south of Belem, the Brazilian
hostile. Inst ruetions were submitted as to how the
authorities arrested Yoshio Yameda and Kiyoto
exchange of communicat ions could be carried on.
Uichi. Both were described as being former
Taken into custody by the Sao Paulo Police
officers in the Japanese Navy, in Brazil with-
was one Mitsutaka Oaki who proved to be a Japa-
out proper authority, and employed as truck
nese nobleman with the rank of viscount. He
gardeners. In Uichi's possession were found
first came to Brazil in March, 1930, as Mitsu-
maps of Brazil with references thereon to
taka Tsuiki, and after a short stay, returned
"machine guns" and "army."
to Japan in September of the same year. Oaki
It is also of interest to note that many
was a graduate of the agricultural college in
of the Japanese arrested in Brazil who were
Japan and when arrested was reported to have
posing as fishermen and farmers, and who even-
been "hiding under the pretext of agricul ture."
tually proved to be Japanese Army and Naval
However, from material found in his possession
officers, had Argentine visas in their pass-
by the police, it was ascertained that his ac-
ports.
tivities were closely connected with the Japa-
As illustrating the cooperation between
nese war effort.
agents of the respective Axis nations, there
One Yogi Yoshikawa, another Japanese, whose
ostensible occupation of insurance salesman gave
is information that one Seiti woriyi, de-
scribed as a suspicious character, frequently
him reason to travel extensively through the in-
communicated with Graf Adelmann von Adelmanns-
terior, proved to be a high military personage
felden, an official of the German Embassy in
in Japan and one of the leaders of the Japanese
Rio de Janeiro.
movement in Brazil.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH.LATIN AMERICA
☆

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.97)
In a report made by a special delegate of
the Sao Paulo political police who was charged
with the investigation of activities of Axis
subjects in the central region of the state of
Sao Paulo, special attention is directed to the
Japanese. The officer reported that in the town
of Itapetininga, the Japanese, Tomekiti Kira,
was arrested on suspicion because he could not
satisfactorily explain the reason for his jour-
ney from Cotia or why he was carrying a "safe
conduct" which had expired. He stated that
several other Japanese have been taken into
custody for questioning. One Tamematsu Okano
was arrested on suspicion for lack of a "safe
conduct." Tamotsu Kodama, also known as Paulo
Timotsu kodama, known to be a lieutenant of
I'iat ion, was arrested on suspicion at Fazenda.
Shigehiko Miyakawa was arrested at Itapeva
and was found in possession of a Japanese pass-
port and a certificate of identity issued by
the Japanese Consulate at Sao Paulo which con-
tained information to the effect that he was a
reserve captain of the second line. Photographs,
parts of a uniform. medals, certificates of
military decorations, and a Japanese flag were
also seized in Miyakawa's residence. Upon
JAPANESE RELIGIOUS SHRINE
ques tioning, he stated that he was a retired
rap ain of the Japanes, Army and received a
Smuggling
salary of four conto: a year. He came to
Brazif on orders of the Japanese Ministry of
Prior to the severance of relations between
roreign Affairs, as an agricul tural immigrant.
Brazil and Japan, the local Japanese representa-
Along with him, as agriculturalists, came
tives had been engaging in an extensive campaign
colonel Wakiyama, now a resident of Bastos;
to buy strategic materials, espiecially indus.
Lieutennt Colonei Yosikawa, now proprietor of
trial diamonds and quartz crystal. Their pur-
a dyeing establ ishment in Sao Paulo; and Captain
chases were made on the open market and no at-
Sakai. now residing in Mogy das Cruzes. In
tempts were made to conceal the activity. Fan-
Pril. Miyskaowa reeiv! instruet ions from the
tastic prices were paid for these materials by
!irm known as Bratae. Be was in charge of
the Japanese and several otherwise reputable
 "rt ing of the employees! association in the
dealers have admitted taking advantage of the
Tres Barras colony on the Porana Northern Rail-
Japanese' will ingness to pay almost any price
way The hovd or ht colony was kaito t sum.
and selling them inferior goods. Among the
a cavalry major who was Later transferred by
Japanese firms which were the leaders in such
Bratoe to the town ot ourinros.
activity were Zaki Shirato and Company, pre-
viously referred to, Tok and Niwa, and the
wiyakawa turnished intormation to the ef-
Sociedade Comereial Nipo-Brasileira, Ltda.
reet that all o tn agricul tural cooperat ive
Statisties reflect that in 1939 over 605
systems in Sao Paulo were directed by mili-
carats of diamonds were exported from Brazil to
tary ofricers, the chief beine Colonel Wakiyama
Japan but this amount was inereased to 2,995
or Psto, who was mentionet above. He al so
carats in 1940 and 71, 732 carats in 1941. It
Stated that approximately too years ago all
has been reported that in addition to this sum,
Japanes, who owned level and cul tivated areas
diamonds were shipped clandestinely through the
received orders to work their Land with spades
Japanese diplomatic pouch.
and not plows, and that in November of 1911,
Investigation has failed to reflect any ac-
the Japanese were notified that in case of in-
tivity in the black market by firms or individ-
ternatienal compl ieations between Brazil and
uals of Japanese nationality and no smuggling
depan they should hwait instruet jons which would
operations of strategic materials by Japanese
come within four months. The information given
have been uncovered since the break of relations
by Miyakawa concerning the working of land with
between Brazil and Japan. It is believed that
spades and not plows probably refers to instrue-
the liquidation of Japanese firms by the Bra-
tions believed to have been given to Japanese
zil ian Government had made clandestine traffic
farmers to prepare their fields for airplane
in strategic materials very difficult if not
landings.
impossible for the Japanese in Brazil.
Wi th the acquisi tion by the Brazilian aut
thorities of certain Japanese plans for espio-
Military Possibilities
mas, and for sabotage, the Government sent re-
inforeements to the reported danger points and
In the northwestern portion of Sao Paulo,
took other necessary precautions, thereby bring-
the Japanese have opened important agricultural
tog Japamese subversive aet ivities under con trol.
settlements whose locations are said to be
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPHLATINAMLRILA
★

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 160
militarily advantageous because of their prox-
coastal areas, where the majority of the Japa-
imity to principal railroad lines and bridges,
nese were concentrated. This removal took place
and otlier points of strategic importance. In a
in July of 1943. In addition, Brazilian 1aw
local police report on the potential military
forbids Japanese citizens from travelling with-
situation the following points were noted: The
out a "safe conduct" issued by the local police
Japanese in the state of Sao Paulo were in a
authorities. The speaking of the Japanese
position to occupy the city of Santos and could
language in public is prohibited and the publi-
readily have constructed airplane and submarine
cation of newspapers or other literature in the
bases on the coast, thus cutting off the gate-
Japanese language likewise is forbidden. All
way to Sao Paulo's commerce. Al though Santos
Japanese schools and places of worship have been
is defended by forts, these are surrounded by
closed and many Japanese firms have been placed
Japanese farms and are considered to be vulner-
in liquidation by the Brazilian Government.
able to any concerted Japanese attack.
The hydroelectric power station which sup-
plies electricity to Sao Paulo and neighboring
cities could have been paralyzed, and the Japa-
nese proximity to the Sao Paulo railway network
could probably have prevented reinforcements
from arriving from outside the state. The ports
of Belem and Manaos, the latter situated about
1,000 miles up the Amazon River, were open to
attack. In connection with the afore-mentioned
possibility, the statement has also been made
that the Japanese were well enough organized to
commence military action without immediate help
from outside Brazil though it is seriously
doubted that their resistance could last very
long.
The Athletic Association of the Sons of
Japan, previously referred to, hres carried out
a program of extensive drilling o: wilitary
training in Brazil and its efforts extend to
all men of military age. The Nippon Trade
Agency, which has served as a f'ront for Japanese
espionage activities, is reported to maintain
secret records of political and social informa-
tion in Brazil which could have been used for
military purposes. It has been reported that
PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT USED IN A JAPANESE SPORT
armament was brought into the state of Sao Paulo
SIMILAR TO FENCING IN WHICH LONG POLES ARE USED
under the guise of machinery, and in one in-
INSTEAD OF SABERS.
stance the police discovered German-made hand
grenades being transported in a Japanese vege-
Federal interventors have been appointed to
table truck under a load of potatoes. There
manage the affairs of the Japanese colonies.
have also been reports to the effect that Japa-
Action also has been taken by the police to in-
nese fishing boats operating out of Iguape have
vestigate Japanese whose activities have ap-
taken on more than their normal requirement of
peared suspicious enough to warrant such action.
fuel oil and water.
The degree of such activi ty has varied among the
In connection with information indicating
several police departments in the regions where
that the Japanese have deliberately isolated
the majority of the Japanese are concentrated.
themselves, it has been stated that the ap-
Arrests have been made in many cases and have
proaches to some Japanese establishments were
resulted in the finding of considerable mate-
guarded by relays of mounted sentinels. In
rial and of documents which were ineriminat ing
northwestern Sao Paulo, the local police were
to those arrested. 1i. many cases the confis-
forced to fight a pitched battle wi th a number
cated articles reveaied thet the subjects were
of Japanese before they could apprehend a Japa-
members of the Japanese military organization
nese fugitive who had murdered the manager of a
or that they were act ive in secret Japanese
bank which refused to pay out frozen funds. The
organizations.
situat ion has been made more difficult by the
Some 369 Japanese, including diplomats and
fact that many of the local politicians have
nationals, were repatriated on the MS "Gripsholm"
profitable commercial conneetions with the large
on July 2, 1912. Approximately 40 of these were
Japanese companies and for that reason vere more
from the state of Sao Paulo. Another 89 Japa-
reluctant to take any action against them.
nese, almost all from the state of Sao Paulo,
were repatriated to Japan on the MS "GripshoIm"
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
on September 8, 1913.
In view of the action taken by the Brazilian
General measures for the control of Japa-
Government, the Japanese are now so con trolled
nese activities in Brazil which have been taken
that it does not appear they can be a serious
by the Brazilian authorities have included the
threat to the security of the Western Hemisphere
removal of all Japanese citizens from the
at this time.
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA
★

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
"SOUTH AMERICA" - BY SEIZO MOGAMI
which should be called an anti-Japanese Ihwi
gration bill, was enforced. According to the
In the previous chapter reference was made
new constitution it was a restriction that
to the book "South America" written by the
could be called a two per cent stipulation
Japanese official Seizo Mogami and published in
This method of computation provides that the
Japan in 1941. According to this source, Mr.
immigrants from each country for one year car-
Tatsu Mizuno, representing the Imperial Coloni-
not exceed the limit of two per cent of people
zation Company, negotiated with the Brazilian
of the country concerned who settled in Brazil
Government in 1908 relative to sending Japanese
during the past fifty years. To the Japanese
laborers to that country. In 1917 the Overseas
immigrants it was a very unfavorable provision.
Industrial Joint-Stock Company was established
Again the revised constitution of 1937 and the
and the steady flow of immigrants to Brazil
immigration iaw of June, 1938, also imitated
began.
this same spirit. Therefore, Japan's annual
quota of immigrants is now 2,840 persons.
Besides that, in colonies of foreign immigrants
not more than twenty-five per cent of the total
number of immigrants could be of the same
nationality. The management of elementary
schools and the teachers were limited to al1
native-born Brazilians. Children under four-
teen years of age could not be taught a foreign
language. These laws were all aimed at the
Japanese immigrants, and were anti-Japanese
measures.
"Because of these laws, many Japanese ele-
mentary schools were discontinued. Prior to
this, there were over 480 elementary schools
with 26,000 children. The Japanese elementary
schools are managed by the Japanese Association
and Cooperatives but because of the high tui-
tion fees, and inconvenient communications,
they have experienced a few difficulties in
ducat ing the children. Because they migrated
to Brazil they thought they might enter the
schools of Brazil but equipment of the ele-
mentary schools there is searce. In addition
to this, parents naturally preferred to have
their children attend Japanese sehoo1s.
JAPANESE SHRINE
Seizo Mogami sets forth figures purporting
to show that during the past eleven years the
following mumber of colonists arrived in Brazil:
1930 - 11,076 persons
1931 - 5,632
1932 - 11,778
六
1933 - 21,497
1931- 21,930
1935-
3,611
1936-
3,306
19:37-
4,557
1937-
2,521
19:9-
1,521
1910 - 1,556
His comments on other phases of Japanese
activities in Brazil are:
Anti-Japanese Immigration Measures
The Brazilian government promulgated a law
restricting immigration into the country in 1930.
Later, it prohibited general immigration of
foreigners. only Japanese immigrants were ex-
cepted for the reason that they were agricul-
JAPANESE PROPAGANDA POSTER BELOW AND POSTER
tural immigrants. Thus, Japanese immigrants
SHOWING PICTURES OF ROYAL FAMILY BELOW.
increased abruptly. However, later, they en-
countered opposition fron anti-Japanese poli-
"In Apri1, 1940, the survey of the Consulate
ticians and final1y in 1934 the quota system,
General at Sao Paulo of Japanese residing in
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 162
Brazil showed 205,850 persons, of which 115, 862
Area owned by individuals
296,535 alqueires
were males and 89,988 were females. In compari-
Area related to settlements
43,465
son with the number who crossed the sea, the
Land being purchased under
percentage of increase seemed to be with the
annual payments
50,000
births. Ninety per cent of the Japanese live
in the state of Sao Paulo with the remainder
Total:
300,000
residing chiefly in the states of Parana and
"From these figures, among the estimated
Mato Grosso. The division according to states
4,500 farmers, 1, 600 families are owners of the
and numbers is:
land and of the remainder, 40% are contract
farmers (commission farms) and the final 20%
Federal Territories
738 persons
are farm laborers. It is believed the situation
Rio de Janeiro State
453
is relatively the same in other states.
Sao Paulo State
193,264
Minas Geraes State
1,922
Goyaz State
297
Amazonas State
237
Para State
608
Mato Grosso State
3,710
Parana State
4,300
The other seven states
221
"Annual Income of Japanese Farmers
"The occupation percentages of the Japanese
residents arranged in relation to the various
pursuits of all the population over twelve years
of age are: Agricul ture, 93%; Industry, 2%;
Commerce, 2.8%; and Miscellaneous, 2.%. Their
numbers are:
Agricul ture
155,944 persons
Industry
3,354
Commerce
4,695
Miscellaneous
3,689
"The products of the Japanese farmers are
raw cotton, coffee, and vegetables, principally,
and next, rice, silkworm cocoons, bonanas,
and black tea. For the fiscal year of 1938-39
the amount of production of the Japanese in
EXHIBIT OF PROPAGANDA LEAFLETS, MAGAZINES, SMALL
Sao Paulo State was 525,900 contos1 in agricul-
JAPANESE FLAGS, PHOTOS OF ROYAL FAMILY, AND
tural products; the amount of production of
LARGE JAPANESE FLAGS ON WALL IN BACKGROUND.
cows, horses, and hogs was 55, 639 contos be-
sides the rice, beans, corn, vegetables, fruit,
and eggs, for home consunption, estimated
Industry
at 90,000 contos making a total of 675,539
contos. This is the amount produced in Sao
"In this field, the Higashiyama Agricultural
Paulo alone but if we consider the proportion
Joint-Stock Company brews "sake" and manufac-
of the amount of farm products of Japanese
tures fertilizer and the Brazil Mining Company
in other parts as 20%, the total amount of
mines rock-crystal and mica. In connection with
agricultural production of the Japanese in
agriculture there are the projects carried on to
a11 of Brazil actually is 816,416 contos. 1f
gin cot ton, clean (hull) rice, andpurify coffee.
this figure were converted into Japanese values
The number of these factories in Sao Paulo
it would equal 205,000,000 yen. Figuring on
state alone is 73, and the capital of these
this basis the amount produced by one Japanese
amounts to 11,13) contos (in Japanese money it
farmer's family for one year would be between
is 2,782, 500 yen). Thirteen of these factories
16 and 17 contos. Consequently, if the cost
are for ginning cotton, 39 for cleaning rice,
of production, clothing expense, interest on
26 for cleaning coffee, three for mandioca
farm capital and other miscellaneous expenses
(cassava) and one for sawing lumber.
is considered at 13 contos, the net profit for
"In commerce, as trade and general merchandise
a farmer for one year would be between six and
dealers, the Japanese are tolerably successful
seven contos. If that were in Japanese values,
in every city and town. The Minstani Company
it would mean an incore of 1400 yen.
in Rio de Janeiro has been effective commer-
"The economic condition of Japanese has
cially. Companies that depend upon Japan for
progressed remarkably in recent years and year
capital are the Yokohama Specie Bank and the
by year the owners of the land are increasing.
agency of the Osaka Merchant Steamship Co, in
The area of the Iand owned by Japanese in Sao
the city of Rio de Janeiro, the Overseas In-
Paulo now is:
dustrial Joint-Stock Co. (Kaigai Kogyo Kabu-
Une "conto" equa1s about $50.00 U. S. currency
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.89)
shiki Kaisha), the Japanese South American
the transportation of immigrents.
Industrial Joint-Stock to. (Nichi-Nan Sangyo
"The South American Colonimsion Jeint
Kabushiki haisla), the Higashiyama Agricul tural
Co. is managing the 1,470,000 acre colony
Joint-Stock Co., the Oriental Raw Cot ton Joint-
is in Acara and Monte Alegre in Para state
Stock Co., the Japanese Raw Cot ton Joint-Stock
the north part of Brazil. One ramily of cel
Co., the Brazil Raw Cotton Joint-Stock Co., the
nists took over by payment in a lump sum mnd ty
agencies for the Witsui Products Co., vomura
Gomei (tnlimited partnership), the Japanese
l and and are engaged in bringing it under oulti
Wooken Cloth Co. and others in Brazil.
vation as landed farmers. The Amazonie Indme
"in the city of Santos. as a place of dis-
trial Joint-Stock Co. is managing a colony in
Parintins in the state of Amazonas. The cole
umbarhation for Japanese, there is a branch of
the osaka erchant Steamship Co. At Belem in
nists in this place are mostly small land owners
the north there 1s the South American Coloniza-
and three hundred yen, the lowest amount for
Ipon Lont-Stock Co.. And at Parintins is the
living expenses for the first year after the
A: Itdrtri1 loint-Stock Co.
voyag, was entrus ted to the company and accord-
ing to necessi ty payments were issued. In
recent years, the production of jute is flourish-
A tivities cf Japanese Firms
ing.
"Lapam i1rt1: to Bra/11 nce 1917
 thu dt ther1n-
du.1r1 1 11nt-Sth C.. primeipal1. amd.
l. ontrn Immiprant were Sent. However.
1.t1111 1 11 1mp1gration Soc1e1
 n  prrImmigratiot Societis
r.1. kthe Asiated Immi-
11.1111
1n etterrri md the rembers ot the societ
1: 1 th 1mmiration So-
11.11 11 1b11y Bra
11/at11. 1111 1n Bra/11 and in both
ul.nd ParanaIs tey purehased 
1111 t 5o.5t acand ca11ed 1
t Ariansa (Allianee) Chiete Tresbaras
' prt.  faml mae mgratd and
are located thet These immigrants are paying
1.r 1h1 1and by  r1y inta1ments and in
th tuture they will mahe 1t thir own cul-
td 1and. 1atr.in Ju1. 1937, t who1
pr 1 ot 1h. Bra11 Coloni/at iot. Assoc-
Lt ion in Bra/ w re-reani/ed with a capi-
CENTER - POSTER SHOWING JAPANESE NAVAL STRENGTH
tal of ten mill ron yn and transterred to the
AS OF 194O. LOWER RIGHT - POSTER SHOWING JAP-
Lapanese-South American lmhistrial Joint-Stock
ANESE MILITARY STRENGTH AS OF I94O. ABOVE -
to But in Japan ime propaganda and enl istment
FLAG AND PICTURES OF JAPANESE NAVAL OFFICERS.
is being carried on in the tuture by the Assoc-
iated Society. Besides these the Japanese-
"Still most recently, as a Japanese enter
South American Indus trial Joint Stock Co. is do-
prise which should be given special mention, is
ing business with the South American Bank, Raw
the contract engineering work on the Campos
Cotton Joint-Stock Co., Mining Joint-Stock Co..
electrie power plant. The Government of the
the Engineering Construction Joint-Stock Co.,
state of Rio de Janeiro was going to set up a
and others.
new 15,Ox) kilowatt hydroelectric power station
"The overseas Industrial Joint-Stock Co. was
in the vicinity of the city of Campos and they
establ ished in December, 1817, and operated
asked foreign companies to submit competitive
businesses first in various parts of South
bids. Among the companies that participated in
America, and in Austral ia and the Phil ippines.
the bidding were the German Siemens Co., and the
In Brazil the leaders developed the colony of
American Westinghouse Company. In all, six of
Idaape (phonet 1e) in Sao Paulo wi th 188, 294.75
the world's famous companies competed. Even
aeres, and the colonists numbered soo families.
the Japanese-South American Industrial Joint-
Besides that they owned the Aniyumas (phonetic)
Stock Co. or Japan participated. The re-
plantation. Also, this same company was manag-
sult of the bids of Way, 1939, was that the
ing the recruiting and transportation of immi-
Japanese-Soutn American Industrial Company got
grants in the past but later the Associated
the successful bid for 7, 180, 000 yen in Japa-
Society of the Immigration Societies undertook
nese money.
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 164
APPENDIX I
of Our Empire. Patiently have We waited and
long have We endured, in the hope that Our
Government might retrieve the situation in peace.
But our adversaries, showing not the least
THE DECLARATION OF WAR
spirit of conciliation, have unduly delayed a
The Japanese government followed its attack
settlement; and in the meantime, they have
with a declaration of war upon the United States
intensified the economic and political pressure
of America and the British Empire on December 8,
to compel thereby Our Empire to submission.
This trend of affairs would, if left unchecked,
1941. This rescript, published in a propaganda
pamphlet which the Japanese entitled, "In De-
not only nullify Our Empire's efforts of many
fense of Greater East Asia," clearly reflects
years for the sake of the stabilization of East
the Japanese characteristic of "saving face" in
Asia, but also endanger the very existence of
Our nation. The situation being such as it is,
placing the war guilt on the United States and
Our Empire for its existence and self-defense
its Allies, and at the same time poirting out
the number of years Japan has planned its pres-
has not other recourse but to appeal to arms and
ent policy of expansion as well as its desire
to crush every obstacle in its path.
"The hallowed spirits of Our Imperial
for power.
Ancestors guarding Us from above, We rely upon
"IMPERIAL RESCRIPT
the loyalty and courage of Our subjects in Our
confident expectation that the task bequeathed
December 8, 1941
by Our forefathers will be carried forward, and
"We, by grace of heaven, Fmperor of Japan,
that the sources of evil will be speedily
seated on the Throne of a line unbroken for
eradicated and an enduring peace immutably
ages eternal, enjoin upon ye, Our loyal and
established in East Asia, preserving thereby the
brave subjects:
glory of Our Empire."
"We hereby declare war on the United States
of America and the British Empire. The men and
APPENDIX II
officers of Our army and navy shall do their
utmost in prosecuting the war, Our public ser-
vants of various departments shall perform
PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT'S MESSAGE TO CONGRESS
faithfully and diligently their appointed tasks,
CALLING FOR A DECLARATION OF WAR ON JAPAN
and all other subjects of Ours shall pursue
their respective duties; the entire nation with
"To the Congress of the United States:
a united will shall mobilize their total strength
so that nothing will miscarry in the attainment
"Yesterday, December 7, 1941 -- a date which
of our war aims.
will live in infamy -- the United States of
"To insure the stability of East Asia and to
America was suddenly and deliberately attacked
contribute to world peace is the lar-sighted
by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan.
policy which was formulated by our Great Illus-
"The United States was at peace with that
trious Imperial Grandsire and Our Great Imperial
nation, and, at the solicitation of Japan, was
Sire succeeding him, and which We lay constantly
still in conversation with its Government and
to heart. To cul tivate friendship among nations
its Emperor, looking toward the maintenance of
and to enjoy prosperity in common with all
peace in the Pacific. Indeed, one hour after
nations has always been the guiding principle
Japanese air squadrons had commenced bombing in
of Our Empire's foreign policy. It has been
Oahu, the Japanese Ambassador to the Uni ted
truly unavoidable and far from Our wishes that
States and his colleague delivered to the
Our Empire has now been brought to cross swords
Secretary of State a formal reply to a recent
with America and Britain. More than four years
American message. While this reply stated that
have passed since China, failing to comprehend
it seemed useless to continue the existing
the true intentions of Our Empire, and reck-
diplomatic negotiations, it contained no threat
lessly courting trouble, distrubed the peace of
or hint of war or armed attack.
East Asia and compelled Our Empire to take up
"It will be recorded that the distance of
arms. Al though there has been re-established
Hawaii from Japan makes it obvious that the
the National Government of China, with which
attack was deliverately planned many days or
Japan has effected neighbourly intercourse and
even weeks ago. During the intervening time the
co-operation, the regime which has survived at
Japanese Government has deliberately sought to
Chungking, relying upon American and British
deceive the United States by false statements
protection, still continues its fratricidal
and expressions of hope for continued peace.
opposition. Eager for the realization of their
"The attack yesterday on the Hawaiian
inordinate ambition to dominate the Orient, both
Islands has caused severe damage to American
American and Britain, giving support to the
naval and military forces. Very many American
Chungking regime have aggravated the distrub-
lives have been lost. In addition American
ances in East Asia. Moveover, these two Powers,
ships have been reported torpedoed on the high
inducing other countries to follow suit, in-
seas between San Francisco and Honolulu.
creased military preparations on all sides of
"Yesterday the Japanese Government also
Our Eapire to challenge us. They have obstruct-
launched an attack against Malaya.
ed by every means our peaceful commerce, and
"Last night Japanese forces attacked Hong
finally resorted to a direct severance of eco-
Kong:
nomic relations, menacing gravely the existence
"Last night Japanese forces attacked Guam.
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 165
"Last night Japanese forces attacked the
Japan on Sunday, December 7, a state of war has
Philippine Islands.
existed between the United States and the
"Last night the Japanese attacked Wake
Japanese Empire.
Island.
Franklin D. Roosevelt
"This morning the Japanese attacked Midway
The White House, December 8, 1941"
Island.
"Japan has therefore undertaken a surprise
offensive extending throughout the Pacific area.
The facts of yesterday speak for themselves.
APPENDIX III
The people of the United States have already
formed their opinions and well understand the
implications to the, very life and safety of our
Nation.
"As Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy
THE DECLARATION OF A STATE OF WAR WITH JAPAN
I have directed that all measures be taken for
The Joint Resolution declaring that a state
our defense.
of war exists between the Imperial Government
"Always will we remember the character of
of Japan and the Government and the people of
the onslaught against us.
the United States is as follows:
"No mat ter how long it may take to overcome
"Whereas the Imperial Government of Japan
this premeditated invasion, the American people,
it their righteous might, will win through to
has committed unprovoked acts of war against
absolute victory.
the Government and the people of the United
"I believe I interpret the will of the
States of America: Therefore be it
Congress and of the people when I assert that we
"Resolved, etc., fhat the state of war
will not only defend ourselves to the uttermost
between the United States and the Imperial
but will make very certain that this torm of
Government of Japan which has thus been thrust
treachery shall never endanger us again.
upon the United States is hereby formally
"Hostilities exist. There is no blinking
deelared: and the President is hereby authorized
at the fact that our people, our territory, and
and directed to employ the entire naval and
our interests are in grave danger.
military forces of the United States and the
"Wi th confidence in our armed forees --
resources of the Government to carry on war
with the unbounded determimation of our people
agtinst the Imperial Government of Japan; and,
-- we will gain the inevitable triumph, so help
to bring the conflict to a successful termina-
us God.
tion, a1l of the resourees of the country are
"I ask that the Congress deetare that.
hereby pledged by the Congress of the United
Since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by
States."
★

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 166
APPENDIX IV
Translation.
HIROHITO.
By the Grace of Heaven, Emperor of Japan, seated on
the Throne occupied by the same Dynasty changeless through
ages eternal,
To all to whom these Presents shall come, Greeting!
We do hereby authorise Yoshijiro Umezu, Zyosanmi,
First Class of the Imperial Crder of the Rising Sun, Secona
Class of the Imperial Military Order of the Golden Kite,
to attach his signature by command and in behalf of
Curselves and Cur Imperial General Headquarters unto the
Instrument of Surrender which is required by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers to be signed.
In witness whereof, We have hereunto set Cun signature
and caused the Great Seal of the Empire to be affixed.
Given at Cur Palace in Tōkyō, this first day of the
ninth month of the twentieth year of Syōwa, being the two
thousand six hundred and fifth year from the Accession
of the Emperor Zinmu.
Seal of
the
Signed: H I R O H I T O.
Empire
Countersigned: Yoshijiro Umezu
Chief of the General
Staff of the Imperial
Japanese Army
Soemu Toyoda
Chief of the General
Staff of the Imperial
Japanese Navy

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.99)
PROCLAMATION
Accepting the terms set forth in Declaration issued
by the heads of the Governments of the United States, Great
Britain and China on July 26th, 1945 at Potsdam and subse-
Mamoru Shigemitsu
Minister for Foreign Affairs
quently adhered to by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Iwao Yamazaki
We have commanded the Japanese Imperial Government and the
Minister for Hcme Affairs
Japanese Imperial General Headquarters to sign on Our behalf
Juichi Tsushima
Minister of Finance
the Instrument of Surrender presented by the Supreme Commander
Sadamu Shimomura
for the Allied Powers and to issue General Orders to the
Minister of War
Military and Naval Forces in accordance with the direction
Mitsumasa Yonai
Minister of Navy
of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers. We command
Chuzo Iwata
all Our people forthwith to cease hostilities, to lay down
Minister of Justice
their arms and faithfully to carry out all the provisions
Tamon Maeda
Minister of Education
of Instrument of Surrender and the General Orders issued by
Kenzo Matsumura
the Japanese Imperial Government and the Japanese Imperial
Minister of Welfare
General Headquarters hereunder.
Kotaro Sengoku
Minister of Agriculture
and Forestry
This second day of the ninth month of the twentieth
Chikuhei Nakajima
year of Syōwa.
Minister of Commerce
and Industry
Naoto Kobiyama
Minister of Transportation
Seal of
Fumiaaro Konoe
Minister without Portofolio
the
Signed: H I R O H I T O
Taketora Ogata
Emperor
Minister without Portofolio
167
Countersigned: Naruhiko-ō
Binshiro Obata
Prime Minister
Minister without Portofolio

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 168
APPENDIX V
INSTRUMENT OF SURRENDER
W
e, acting by command of and in behalf of the Emperor of Japan, the
Japanese Government and the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters,
hereby accept the provisions sat forth in the declaration issued by the heads
of the Governments of the United States, China and Great Britain on 26
July 1945, at Potsdam, and subsequently adhered to by the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, which four powers are hereafter referred to as the Allied
Powers.
We hereby proclaim the unconditional surrender to the Allied
Powers of the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters and of all
Japanese armed forces and all armed forces under Japanese control
wherever situated.
We hereby command all Japanese forces wherever situated and
the Japanese people to cease hostilities forthwith, to preserve and save
from damage all ships, aircraft, and military and civil property and to
comply with all requirements which may be imposed by the Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers or by agencies of the Japanese
Government at his direction.
We hereby command the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters
to issue at once orders to the Commanders of all Japanese forces
and all forces under Japanese control wherever situated to surrender
unconditionally themselves and all forces under their control.
We hereby command all civil, military and naval officials to
obey and enforce all proclamations, orders and directives deemed
by the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers to be proper to
effectuate this surrender and issued by him or under his outhority
and we direct all such officials to remain at their posts and to
continue to perform their non-combatant duties unless specifically
relieved by him or under his authority.
We hereby undertake for the Emperor, the Japanese
Government and their successors to carry out the provisions of the
Potsdam Declaration in good faith, and to issue whatever orders
and take whatever action may be required by the Supreme Commander
for the Allied Powers or by any other designated representotive of
the Allied Powers for the purpose of giving effect to that Declaration.
We hereby command the Japanese Imperial Government and
the Japanese Imperial General Headquarters at once to liberate all
allied prisoners of war and civilian internees now under Japanese
control and to provide for their protection, care, maintenance and
immediate transportation to places as directed.
The authority of the Emperor and the Japanese Government to
rule the state shall be subject to the Supreme Commander for the
Allied Powers who will take such steps as he deems proper to
effectuate these terms of surrender.

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.90)
Pago 169
Signed af ToKYo BAY. JAPAN af 99. 7
on the
SECOND
day of SEPTEMBER
—,1945.
重先笑
By Command and in behalf of the Empercr of Japan
and the Japanese Government.
梅津美治郎
By Command and in behalf of the Japanese
Imperial General Headquarters.
ACcepted af TOKYO BAY. JAPANat  9O 8 I
on the
SECOND
day OF SEPTEMBER
一,1945,
for the United States, Republic of China, United Kingdom and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and in the interests of the other
United Nations at war with Japan.
Douglas Wbe Arlbur
Supremg Commander for the Allied Powers.
United States Representative
徐永昌
Republic of China Representative
Bmee Fraser.
United Kingdom Representative
Lenr-unienane 1Dylhant
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
Representative
CaBlamey
Commonwealth of Australia Representative
movu Grry n
Dominion of Canada Representative
Lele
Provisional Government of the French
Republip Representative
MAufie
Kingdom of the Netherlands Representative
Lemens ke Lritt
Dominion of New Zealand Representative

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 170
Index
Aburto, Rodrigo, 114
Asociacion Japonesa de Comercio y Industrias del
Acadia (SS), 75, 79, 83, 50, 97
Peru, 90
Accion Chilena, 114
Associated Immigration Society, 163
Acevedo, Bartnelmes, 90
Associated Press, 114
Adashi, Miochiro, 158
Associated Society of the Immigration Societies,
Agencia Comercial Jabonesa, 74
153
Agricultural Society, 101
Association of Friends of Germany, 115
Aguirre, Carlos, 97
Association of Friends of the Japanese School
Aguirre, Juan Xavier Marcos, 80
(Fukei Kivai), 150
Agurcia, Ignacio, 50
Association of Overseas Emigration Partnerships
Ahome, Sinaloa, 51
(Kagai Iju Kumiai Kengokai), l6, 147,
Aia. Chilena Oriental, 105
Athletic Association of the Sons of Japan, I55,
Aifo Hirota, 149
160
Akachi, Ernesto, 45
Aurur River Society, 33
Akagi, Roy, 68
Australia, 147, 163
Akira, Abe, 116, 117
Axis Legations, 96
Akira, Uye, 113
Axis Pact, 66
"Alert", 61
Axis Tripartite Pact, 6
Algodoeira Bratac, Ltda., 150
"Azuma Maru", 48
Algodoeira do Sul, Ltda., 150
Baba, Tokichi Umara, 46
Alianza Libertadora Nacionalista, 126
Banco Central del Ecuador, 82
Allianca at Morandopolis, 151
Banco Nacional de Costa Rica, SO
Alvarez de Esperjo, Luis, 48
Banco Minero in La Paz, 103
Amagonian lowlands, 99
Bank of London, 30
Amano Fishing Company, 60
Barba, Antonio Alvarez, 80
Amano, Y., and Company, 61, 62
Amano, Y., y Cia., Ltda., 60
Barrios, Reyna Maria Jose, 55
Amano, Yoshitaro, 60, 61, 62, 96
Barthelmes, Juan, 96
Bastos, Henrique (Colonel), 152
Amazon River, 143, 150
Amazon Valley, 143
Bastos Rancharia, 151
Amazonia Industrial Joint-Stock Co., 163
Bastos Transoortation Company, 152
Amazonia Sangyo K.K., 149
Bazar Oriental, 80
American Air Force, 131
Beeche, Rafael, 61
American Army and Navy, 47
Bell Aircraft, 31
American Bureau of the Foreign Office, 28
Bismarck, 5
American Export Co., 46
Black Dragon Society, 90, 125, 133, 139, 155
American Immigration Act of 1924, 6
Blomken, Heinrich, 82
American Westinghouse Company, 163
Bodelon, Manuel Mayo, 126
Americans, 51, 53
Bolivia, Wendler, 114
Anan Shintaku Kabushiki Kaisha, 120
Bolivian Altiplano, 99, 101
Anan Trust Company, 120
Bolivian Banco Minero, 101
Anda y Cia., 120
Borchers, Hans, 113
Anglo-Japanese Alliance, 1I
Bobillier, Guillermo, 114
Anglo-Japanese Treaty, 11
Boyeki Kumiai Chuckai del Jaoon, 74
Annual Income of Japanese Farmers, 162
Boxer Rebellion, 6
Anti-Comintern Pact, 11
Brasil Menka K.K., 151
Anti-Japanese Immigration Measures, 161
Bratac Firm, 152
Anti-slavery laws, 20, 147
Bratac Group, 150, 159
Aoyama Kosaka, Mario, 43, 47, 49, 50, 54
Btazcot, Ltda., 150
Abura Party, 99
Brazil, 1mmigration Laws of, 1938 & 1939, 147
Araki, Genichi, 96
Brazil Mining Company, 162
Argentine Commerce and Industry Marine Products
Brazil Raw Cotton Joint-Stock Co., 163
Joint-Stock Co., 135
Brazil Takushoku Kumai Company, 20
Argentine Consul, Tokyo, Japan, 116
Brazilian Immigration Legislation July 1934, 147
Argentine Federal Police, 122, 128, 130, 131, 134
British, 51
Argentine Flowered Pottery Works, 120
British-Japanese trade competition, 19
Argentine Prefectura Maritima, 122
British Statutory List, 139, 140
Arita, Nagao, 29
Buddhism, 2, 4, 8, 9, 24, 25, 28, 29, 30, 35
Arriagada, Julio, 114
Buenos Aires Horticulturalists Association, 118,
Arroyo del Rio, Carlos, 83
124
Ashida, Federico, 47, 49, 50
Buenos Aires Nanaki Sangyo Kumiai Yugen Sekinin,
Ashikaga, Takauji, 9
124
Asociacion Cultural Peruano-Japanese, 88
Bureau of Shrines, 29
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 171
Buscht, German (President), 99, 103
Communism, 5, 155
Bushido Code, 24
Communist International, 6
Communist Party, 99
Cabo Blanco, 61
Communist Society, 5
Cabo de Buena Esperanza, 130
Companhia Boratae, 151
Cabo de Hornos, 128
Companhia de Colonizacao e Commercia (Brazil),
Cabrera, Rafael, 58
153
Calero, Domingo, 58
Companhia Kaikau (alias Companhia Migracao
California-Ecuador Petroleum Company, 83
Japones, 149
Camaguey Group, The, 64
Companhia Nipponica de Plantacao do Brasil, 149
Canada,11
Compania Anan Credito y Finanzas Sociedad
Canal Zone, 61
Anonima, 120
Candelaria Bermejo, 74
Compania Argentina Comercial e Industrial de
Candido Santidrian Castillo, 116, 117, 130
Pesqueria, 122
Capac, Manco, 88, 89
Compania Chilena Oriental, 107, 113, 116
Cardenas Garcia, Cesar, 9?
Compania Commercial Taibo, S.A., IOy
Cardio (SS), 74
Compania Decoradora Argentina de Loza y
Casa Bancaria Bratac, 150
Porcelena, 120
Casa Bratac, 150, 151, 156
Compania Internacional de Comercio, S.A., 45, 46,
Casa dashiya (also Hashiyiturou), 151
Compania Internacional de Drogas, 45, 46
Casa deida of Barranquilla. 72
Compania Mexicana de Petroleo Laguna, 45
Casa 1ton, 105, 109. 110
Comoania Mexicana de Petroleo Veracruzana, S.A.,
Casa Jaoonesa, o0, 74
45
Casa Matomu, 151
Compania de Mineracao do Apiai, 151
Casa Ocntay, 103
Compania Niopon Suisan Kaisha, 46
Casa Sanko, 109
Comoania Petrolera de Laguna, S.A., 46
Casa Showa, 101
Compania Petrolera Veracruzana, S.A., 46
Casa Taibo, 105, 109
Compania Sud Americana de Vapores (CSAV), 113
Casa Tozan, Ltda., 150
Company for International Development, 153
Casai, R., 150
Conference of Havana, 79
Castro, Armando Rojas, 114
Control Station, 78
Catnolic Church, /4
Cooperativa Agricola de Cotia, 151, 157
Catnolic Religion. 4
Cooperativa Agricola Mixta, 149
Central Bank of Argentina, 120
Corral, Luis del (Dr.), 122
Central Trading Company, ol
Correa, Manuel, '16
Champer of Commerce in Barranquilla, 74
Costa Neto, Benedito (Dr.), 150
Chamber of Commerce, 76
Counselor of the Japanese Embassy, 155
Champerico, Port of, 55
Crisol (newspaper), 126, 128
Chilean Military Mission, 112
Cuernavaca, Morelos, 45
Chilean Union Nacionalista, 126
China Affairs Board, 37, 30
Daisaku dayasi, 72
Chinese Colonization, 147
Dalmau, Antonio, 80
Chinese-Japanese War, 1894-1895, 6
Dalmau, Francisco, 80
Chinese Revolution of 1911, 133
Delgado, Sustavo Diez, 80, 82
Choshu Clan, 11
Delgado, Luis Martinez, 82
Christian Church. Jaban.2
Denosuke Nakagawa, 109
Christianity, 30
Deportes del Noreste, 52
Christian Religion, 4
Diario Japones en la Argentina, 125
Chronicle of Japan, o1
Diario Nioon de Buenos Ai,es, 125
Churruca, Pablo de, 88
Diario Nau, 125
Civil Attache of the Jaoanese Embassy, 134
Diario Relampago, 114
Colombian Law Prohibiting Oriental Immigration,
Doblesky, Angela Acosta ae (Dr.), 131
70
Doku, Eduardo, 72, 74
Colombian National Police, 72, 73
Dom Pedro 11, 20
Colonization Bank, 16
Domei News Agency, 38, 40, 46, 156
Colonization of Western Coast of Colombia, 70
Domingo, Juan, 90
Colonization Union of Peru, oy
Domingo Selva, 122
Comintern, o
Donoso, Armando, 115
Comite Chileno-Japones, 115
Doolittle's Raid on Japan, 47
Comite Japones de Auxilio Mutuo (Japanese Com-
Eastman, Comandante Jorge Gana Eastman, 116
mittee for Mutual Assistance), 44, 45, 47.
Ecnavarria, Francisco, 52
50, 52
Economic Mission of Costa Rica, 59
Comite Pro Paz y Libertad, 115
Ecuador Trading Company, 80
Commercial Department of the Ministry of Foreigr
El Chileno, 114
Affairs in Japan, 72
El Diario Ilustrado, 114
Commercial Mission from Japan, 72
El Imparcial, 114
Commercial Treaty, 43
El Industrial, 114
Commission of the League of Nations, o
El Mercurio, 115
Communications Section of the Japanese Army, 51
El Nippan, 57
JAPANESEMONOGRAPHIATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 172
El Nuevo Japon, 45
Gestapo, 46
El Pacayal, 55
Gingahan (Milky Way Bank) Floriculture Union, 135
El Pacifico, 114
Gomez, Laureano, 75
El Sol Naciente, 51
Gonzalez, A. G., 110
EI Zapote, 55
Gonzalo, Becerra S., 97
Emperor Jimmu, 3, 8
Graficas, Ibarra, 48
Emperor Kwammu, 8
Gravet, Henri Catherin, 128
Emperor Meiji, 11
Great Britain, 3, 7, 17, 19, 90
Emperor Yoshihito, 11
Gripsholm (SS), 117, 150, 160
Empresa Brasileira de Minercao, Ltda., 151
Gris, Manuel, 53
Empress Suiko, 8
Grosse, Kurt, 82
Engineering Construction Joint-Stock Co., 163
Guatemalan Diplomatic List for 1936, 55
Engineering Corps, 82
Guatemalan National Police, 57
England, 40, 105
Gumucio, Alejandro, 116
Eonozawa, Yuei, 158
Gurdian, Raul, 60
Errazuriz, Maximiliano, 115
Habicara, dabiro, 158
Escuela Normal Superior, 74
Hachiro Naito, Ernesto, 54
Esperjo, Luis Alvarez de, 48
Hacienda de Castro Urdiales, 45
Esteve, Eduoard, 68
Hacienda La Labor, 50
Eucharistic Congress, 88
Hacienda Temixco, 54
Everbusch, Richard, Jr., 48
Hakko Ichiu Policy, 3
Exclusion Law of 1924, 13
Hamanaka, Kyoho, 45
Exclusion Policy, 13
Export Federation of Latin America of Osaka, 58
Hanogae, Wanciro, 154
Hara, Kohziro, 62
Extranjeria y Inmigracion, 92
Harris, Townsend, 13
Fabrica de Adubos Esperanca, 151
Harrison, Fernando Soto, 60
Fabrica Botoes de Madriperola, 151
Hasashi, Kunihiro, 110
Fabrica Nacional de Medias, 92
Hasegawa, Tsunesaburo (Dr.), 46
Favilla, Antonio Llorens, 48
Hashimoto Kaminaga, Ichira, 49
Fazenda Bunka, 145
Hashimoto, Schiro, 43
Federation of Japanese Associations, 8y, 90
Hatanaka, Sengiro, 152
Federation of Japanese Floriculture Unions, 135
Hatanaka, Tadao, 152
Federation of Japanese Societies in Brazil, 147
Hattori, Motozo, 117
Fenthol, Fritz, 158
Hawaiian Island, 48
Fibro-Quimica, Ltda., 151
Hayakawa, Kiyosi (Dr.), 154
Figueira, Ary P. de Andrade (Dr.), 158
Hayao, Suetaka, 156, 157
Figueira, Ary (Dr.), 130
Hayashi, Shinzaku, 155
Films (Japanese), 150
deisaku, Ueda, 134
Floral Art School, 151
deitaka, Taira, 155
Fonnegra, Guillermo Rodriguez, 72
Hesagoshi Eshima Yasumaga with aliases Hisayoshi
French Havastele Agency, 115
Eshima Yasunaga, Fernando H. Ecima, 73
Friends of the Japanese Language, 134
Hess, Walter Muller, 113
Fuginaka, Susuma, 79
Hidenosuke, Ueda, 134
Fugio, Mirukana, 150
Higashiyama Agricultural Joint-Stock Company,
Fujii, Julio, 96
162, 163
Fukei Kivai (Association of Friends of the
Higashiyama Noji K.K., 151
Japanese School), 150
Hilgert, Edoar, 48
Fukuhara, Hachiro, 149
Hiramatsu, Masayoski, 103
Fukunosuke, Nomura, 109, 117
Hiranuma Cabinet, 6
Fukus, Okuma, 158
Hirasawa, T., 156
Fukushima, Shigeyoshi, 55
Hirayama, Joao Kiuo, 158
Furuta, Ryoichi, 134
Hiroshi, Isawa, 122
Furuya, Julio, 88
Hiroshi, Izawa, 125
Hiroshi, Teraoka, 79
Gamio, Enrigue M., 116
Hirota Cabinet, 6
Gentlemen's Agreement of 1907, 13
Hisao Yanai, 75
Genzo Nimura, 97
Hitachi. Ltd.. 72
German Club, 72
Hizen Clan, 11
German Consul in Barranquilla, 72
Hoemke, Adolf, 157
German Embassy, 158
Hohenzollern Monarchy, 5
German Immigration, 149
Ho jo Regency, 9
German-Japanese Agreement, 6
Holtom, D. C. (Dr.), 30
German Legation, 57, 103
Hombo, La Casa, 116
German Red Cross, 72
Hombo, Takayasiu, lio
German Siemens Company, 163
Hooper Foundation, 154
German Submarines, 122
Hori, Yoshiatsu, 55
German Transocean Service, 115
Hoshi, Hajime, 92
Germer, Harold, 113
doshi Pharmaceutical Co., 92
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 173
Hoski, Julio, 88
Japan Cotton Trading Company Ltd. of Osaka,
Hotel del Parque, 49
Japan, 96
Japan Dye Stuff Manufacturing Company, 72
Ibanez del Campo, Carlos (Doctor), 112
Japan - Its Historic Mission in Eastern Asia, 48
Ibarra, Rodolfo, 116
Japan-Mexico Association, 147
Ichihara, Shindzi (Doctor), 50
Japan-Peru Track Meet, 89
Ichiji, Kuribayashi, 120, 122, 124
Japan Reformist Party, 6
Iglesias, Augusto, 114
Japan Tourist Bureau, 38
Iguape River Valley, 143
Japanese Aeronautical Society, 89
lino, Eisaku, 140
Japanese Agricultural Society of Bolivia, 103
Ilha de Boavista, 153
Japanese Annex to Portuguese Legation, 48, 50, 52
Imai, Giichi, 131
Japanese Army, 47, 50, 51, 54, 79, 130, 158, 159
Immigration Bureau, 135
Japanese Association of Argentina, 122, 124, 134
Immigration Laws, 61
Japanese Association and Cooperatives, I61
Immigration Methods, 145
Japanese Barbers' Association, 61
Immigration Policy, 19
Japanese Cabinet, 122
Imoerial Academy of Japan, 48
Japanese Central Society, 84, 86, 88, 89, 90, 97,
Imperial Colonization Company, 161
103
Imperial Constitution, 5
Japanese Chamber of Commerce, 124
Imperial House, 155
Japanese Charge d'Affaires, 75, 78
Imperial Jaoanese Military Virtue Society, 24
Japanese-Chile Trade Association, 16
Imperial Rescript, 3, 5, 7, 31
Japanese-China War in 1894, 1
Imperial Rule Assistance Association, 6, 133
Japanese Christian Church, 118
Imperial University, 29, 48
Japanese Christian Students Association, 68
Imprenta Universo, 115
Japanese Club, 101
Imuro Ota, Maso, 54
Japanese Colonies, 99
Inca Dynasty, 88
Japanese Colonization, 147
Industrial Rame Hule, 48
Japanese Colonizing Companies, 145
Industrial Revolution, 11
Japanese Colony, 84
Industrias Yamagata, Ltda., 151
Japanese Commerce, 150
Information Bureau of the Japanese Foreign
Japanese Commercial Office, 48
Office, 5
Japanese Commercial Representatives, 72
Inostroza, Luis Alero, 113
Japanese Committee for Mutual Assistance (Comite
Inouye, Toyokishi, 66
Japones de Auxilio Mutuo), 45, 46
Instituto Cultural Chileno, 109
Japanese Consular Service, 38
Instituto Cultural Sadao Anda, 120
Japanese Consulate, 38, 136, 151, 156, 159
Instituto de Cinematografica Educativa de la
Japanese Consulate General, 44
Universaidad de Chile, 109, 114
Japanese Constitution of 1889, 5
International Colonization Association, 66
Japanese Cooperatives, 147, 149
Interventor System, 79
Irmao, Hachiya, and Company, 156
Japanese Cotton King, 92
Japanese Cultural Institute, 116
Isai, Y., 68 Isamu, Ogawa, 125
Japanese Department of Economic Propaganda, 157
Ise National Shrine, 29
Japanese Department of Overseas Affairs, 163
Ishihara, Shindzi (Doctor), 50
Japanese Diet, 92
Ishii, Itaro, 156
Japanese Diplomatic Mission, 140
Ishikawa, Luis T., 88
Japanese Diplomatic Representation, 150
Ishiro, Ranzo, 155
Islas Tres Marias, 54
Japanese Domei News Agency, 115
Japanese Embassy, 57, 96, 111, 112, 114, 116,
Isokichi Yamazaki, Felipe, 53
Isoma, Kobayashi, 130
117, 120, 122, 124, 125, 130, 131, 133, 150
Japanese Emigration Council, 16
Italian Immigration, 149
Japanese Emperor, 92
Italian Labor, 147
Japanese Empire, 104, 149
Italian Stefani Agency, 115
Jaoanese Enterprises, 99, 163
Itaro Amari, 120
Itaru Saito, Ernesto, 54
Japanese Fleet and Air Coros, 95
Japanese Flower Cooperative, 135
Ito, Keiso, 54
Jaoanese Foreign Office, 5, 99
Itoh and Company, 101, 125
Japanese Government Control, 160
Itsuki, Takada, 107, 117
Japanese Government (Representatives), 136
Iwai Argentine Firm, 116, 122, 125
Japanese Grammar School of Buenos Aires, 133
Iwai, Izawa, 124
Japanese 1mmigrants, 145, 147
Iwamoto, L. M. (Doctor), 46
Japanese Imperiai Headquarters, 140
Iwao Nisizaki, 139, 140
Japanese Industry, 162
Iwata, John, 50
Japanese Language, 149
Iwaya, Jikijiro, 154
Japanese Laundry and Cleaners Trade Association,
124
Japan Advertiser, 29
Japanese Legation, 44, 47, 51, 64, 73, 75, 78,
Japan-Chile Trade Association, 147
88, 83, 103, 105, 117, 130, 136
Japan Colomoia Trading Company, 74
Japanese Mass Immigration, 145, 147
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 174
Jacanese-Mexico Association, 16
Kasamatsu, Hisakaza, 139
Japanese Military Academy, 54
Katayama, Renieo, 157
Japanese Military, 155, 156
Kato and Company, Ltd., 73
Japanese Minister, 75
Kato, Carlos Y., 150
Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 159
Kato, Genchi, 29
Japanese Mission, 147
Kato, Matsuri, 57
Japanese Nationals Living Abroad, 14
Kato, Mijasaka, 46
Japanese Naval Attache, 114
Katsushige, Hanani, 133
Japanese Navy, 48, 51, 52, 113, 157, 158
Kawai, Kingo, 122
Japanese Newspapers, 118
Kawai, Matagoro, 95
Japanese Overseas Emigrants Association, 136
Kawai, Mayagoro, 92
Japanese Overseas Immigration Society, 163
Kawakibo, Jyoho, 60. 61
Japanese Overseas Ministry, 109
Kawamura, A., 157
Japanese Peril, 98
Kawamura, Arinori, 157
Japanese Raw Cotton Joint-Stock Company, 163
Kawamura, Issac, 104
Japanese Residing in North and South America,
Kawamura, Ko (Represeniative of Japanese Cotton
1925-38, 16
Company), 66, 117
Japanese-Russian War in 1905, I
Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha, 80, 96
Japanese School Readers, 33, 34
Keisaburo, Fujii, 125
Japanese Schools, 118
Keiso, Ito, 54
Japanese Section of Swiss legation, 120
Kenischi Ynockuchi, Roberto, 48
Japanese Settlement, Philippines and Siam, 13
Kenkichi, Iuda, 122, 125
Kenosuke, Kawaguchi, 109, 117
Japanese Society of Bolivia, 99
Japanese Society of La Paz, 99, 101, 103
Kenzo, Tanabe, 125
Kichimatsu, Shinya, 109, 115
Japanese South American Industrial Joint-Stock
Company, 162, 103
Kido, deidiki, 48
Japanese Spirit, 3
Kido, 1chibel, 120
Japanese Tourist Bureau, 126
Kido, Tekeichi, 48
Japanese War Investigation Committee, 147
Kiichiro, luzuki, 125
Japanese War Ministry, 5
Kimura, Louis, 68
Japanese Wholesalers Union, 90
Kimura Murata, Satoshi, 50
Japanese Woclen Clo'n Company, 163
Kimura, Pablo, 44, 47, 43, 50, 52, 54
Jensen, Hans-Jurgen, 96
Kinu, Hosohawa, 134
Jesuit Order, 2, 9
Kioshi, Yamamoto, 150
Jiji Year Book 1939, 28
Kitawgawa, Minoni, 133
Jimmukai (Society for Venerating Kimmu Tenno),
Kitaro, Ambo (Brazil), 155
133
Kitigawa, Minoru, 125
Jimmu-Tenno, 3
Kiyoshi, Ichikawa. 108
Jiujitsu Clubs, 151
Kiyoshi, Yamagata, 36, 95
Jodo Sect, 4
Kiyoto, Miguel K., 39, 103, 104
Kiyoto, Uichi, 158
Jofres, Elias, 128, 130
Kodama, Paulo, Tamotsu, 159
Jornal do Brasil, 156
Koehler, Alfredo, 157
Jujita, Katsuyoshi, 90
Koga, Hoshio, 62
Junta de Defensa Economica (Economic Defense
Koichi, Minami, 73
Board), 104
Koichi, Ogawah, 72, 74
Juventud Japonesd (Japanese Youth), 64
Koichi, Tamura, 73. 74
Kagai Iju Kumiai Kengokai (The Association of
Kokuko Imin Kaisha, 149
Overseas Immigration Partnershios), 16, 147
Kokoku Shokumiu Kaisha Corporation, 15
Kai (Brazil), Aikoku Fujin, 155
Kokusai Bunka Shinkokai (Society for Inter-
Kai, Heimusha, 54
(national Cultural Relations), 88
Kai, Kokuryu, 133
Kokusuito Kokuzoku (Brazil), 155
Kai Nippon Butoku Kai, 24
Kokusuito Tentuikume (Brazil), 155
Kaigai Doho Chuo'ai, 24
Kokutaro, Nagumo, 80
Kaigai Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha (K.K.K.K.)
Komazo, Yoshida. 125
(The Overseas Development Co., Ltd.), 15, 16,
Komori, Santiago T., 103
19, 20, 70, 92, 145, 147, 151, 153, 162
Komori, Tomas, 101
Kaiko, Abe, 115
Kondo, Kimi, 58
Kaito Usui, 159
Kondo, Ryntaro, 58
Kaminaga, Ichira Hashimoto, 49
Konishi, Ichinosuke (Doctor), 46
Kaname Nakayama, 117
Koniski Trading Company, 73
Kanashige, Alfonso, 57
Konoe, Prince Fumimaro, 6
Kaneko, Major Rinkai, 95
Korekiyo. Takanashi, 38
Kanematsu and Company, Ltd. of Kobe, Japan, 78
Kosaka, Mario Aoyama, 47, 49, 50, 54
Kanematsu Rioplatense, 125
Koseki, Tomiga, 120
Kanetsuma, Kazuo, 1Oy
Koshida, Saichiro, 55
Kanji Shirato, 157
Kunetsuma, Kazuo, 113
Kanne, Ryoji, 150
Kunito, Mijasika, 136
Karaka, Enji, 109
Kunito, Miyaska, 150
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 175
Kuno, Sigeo, 46
Menka Kabushiki Kaisha, 92
Kurajiro, 1shikawa, 124
Menka, Peru, 96
Kuroku, Awazu, 150
Merchant Marine of Japan, 3
Kurotobi, Tatsujiro, 89
Mexican Department of Gobernacion, 45, 53
Kussiama Sikiti, 155
Mexican Rotary International, 53
Kutugata, Jose, 46
Michiteru Ishil, 139
"Kyo Ei Kai" (Japanese Committee for Mutual
Michiyama, Salvador Shinichi Matsuo, 50
Assistance), 44
Midori Yoshioka, 153
Kyutaro, Tsunekawa, 111
Midzuna, T., 125
Mier y Teran, Moises, 97
Labor Bureau, 131
Military Attache, (Japanese), 47
La Casa Japonesa, 76, 78
Military Attache, German (Chiie), 41
Military Special Service Section, 37
La Discusion, 114
Millan-Astray, General, 48
Laguna Oil Company, 44
Miller, Pedro V., 82
La Hora, 114
Language Schools, 30, 31, 32, 33
Minetani Shokai, 151
Mining Joint-Stock Company, 163
La Opinion, 114
Minister of Commerce and Industry, 38
La Prensa, 117
Minister of Overseas Affairs (Japan), 38
Larrazabel, Alfredo, 115
Ministry of Commerce and Industry of the
La Semana Internacional, 114
Latin American-Japanese Society, 16, 147
Japanese Government, 60
Ministry of Education (Japan), 28, 34
League of Nations, Commission of the, 6, I1, 131
Ministry of Labor (Colombia), 72
Lettuce Farming Joint-Stock Company, 99
Ministry of National Economy (Colombia), 72
Liberalism, 5, 6
Minseito Party (Japan), 6
Lima Niopo, 95
Liorens Favilla, Antonio, 48
Minstani Company, 162
Loaiza, Rodolfo T., 44, 51, 53, 54
Mirando al Oriente, 115, 116, 126
Los Nueve Heroes Japanese del Pearl Harbor, 116
Misao Imaizumi, 156
Misutani, Kiyoshi, 69
Luighi, Juan de, 114
Mitsubishi Bussan Kalsha, 113
Madison, (SS), 88
Mitsubishi Company, 46
Madrigal, Ramon, 60
Mitsubishi Trading Company, 72
Maeda List, 49
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, 38
Maeda, Viscount Rodolfo Toshimitsu, 47, 48, 49
Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha Ltd., 120
Makita, Guillermo S., 44, 50, 52
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha, 37, 38
Malunda, Rafael, 115
Mitsui Bussan K. K., 151
Manabe Faction, 103
Mitsui Company, 46, 107, 150, 156
Manchukuo puppet state, 57
Mitsui Products Company, 163
Manchurian Incident, 5
Mitsui Subsidiary, 157
Mangels, Otto, 72, 74
Mitsuo Okayama, 109
Manifest Destiny, 3
Mitsuru Toyama, 90, 133
Manifest God, 3
Mitsutaka Oaki, 158
Mantica, Felipe, 58
Mitsutaka Tsuiki, 158
Marcos, Juan Francisco, 80, 82
Miura, Yoshiaki, 55, 57
Marcos, Juan Xavier, 82
Miyakawa, Asana, 124
Martinez, Juan Roberto, 131
Miyako, Almacen, 61
Martinez, Guillermo (Professor), 113
Miyamoto, 1tsuo, 109
Martinez, General Maximiliano H.,(President), 57
Miyasaki, Goro, 34, 107
Masami, Uesugi Akira, 96
Miyoshi, Sozan, 116
Masao, Tsuda, 131
Mochizuki, Mikio, 96
Masao Okada, 140
Mogami, Seizo, 135
Massagiro Sigmata, 155
Mogy Das Cruzes and Cotia, I58, 159
Massahiro Fujii, 154
Mohammedanism, 2
Masuo Imaki, 156
Monte Carlo, 49
Matsubayasi and Ykeda Vehicle Body Construction
Montero, Juan Esteban, 107, 116, 130
Co., 92
Montevideo Police, 140
Matsudaira Sadanobu, 10
Moreno, Celestina, 128
Matusita List, 49
Moreno Echevarria, Rafael (Raoul Moreno), 112
Matusita, Ricardo T., 44, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 54
113
Matsumoto, Jurio, 110
Mori, Goro, 150
Matsura Trading Co., 103
Morishige, Jose, 51
Matsuo, Salvador Shinichi, 47
Morimoto, 1chitaro, 24, 89, 97, 98
Matsushima, Tateo, 90
Morioka Immigration Company, 98
Matsutaro Omura, 139, 140
Moriyama, Eduardo Shigetada (Dr.), 51, 53
Matukura, Fermin Masuru, 80, 82
Mormugao, Portuguese Goa (India), 117
Mayorga, Wilfredo, 116
Moslem League, 28
Medal of the Rising Sun, 57
Mosagoro Immamura, 140
Meiji Era, 4, 5, 33, 35, 36
Miura, S., 130
Mejia, Alberto Gutierrez, 72.
Mujica, Arturo Espinosa, 112
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 176
Murai, Nenry, 68
Nomura, Funkunosuke, lll
Murata, Satoshi Kimura, 50
Nomura Gomei, 151, 163
Mussolini, Benito, 147
Nonomiya, Motozo, 89
Nonomiya Shoten, S.A., 92
Naciones, Veinte, 126
Noraki, Vicente, 51
Nacnori Ishihara, 150
Nosaki, Masakatsu, 150
Nagabuchi, S., 46
Noticiario Argentino, 125
Nagai, Ryokichi, 157, 158
Nueva Edad, 114
Nagamatsu, Tukio, 46
Numura, Y.S., 125
Magao and Company, Inc., 61
Nagoya Products Export Association, 73
Oashi, Bunji, 90
Naito, R. (Dr.), 154
Ochiay, Vicente, 39, 101, 103
Naitoh, Hachiro, 46
Office of the Coordinator of inter-American
Nakai, Makario, 51
Affairs, 30
Nakakawa, Federico K., 51
Ogawa, Eva, 64
Nakataro Aray, 97
Ogawa of Shosen, 124, 125
Nakatsuka, Sueyuki, 107
Ogura Pearl Button Factory, 120
Nakay, Macario, 51
Ogura y Cia., Fabrica de Botones de Nacar,
Nakayama, Kaname, 107, li6
120
Nambei Takushoku K.K., 116, 125, 14y, 157
Ohira, 3., 66
Naon, Romulo S. (Dr.), 122
Ohm, Gustav Walter, 48
Naotaro Shimanaka, 139
Okamoto, Luis (or Masuru Okamoto), 88
Naoya Nagamine, 36
Okamura, Jose S. (Dr.), 48, 51, 53, 54
Nation (The), 107
Okido Ken Jin Kai, 155
National Coffee Federation, 72
Okinawa Province, Peru, 84
National Police of 3ogota, 74
Okugawa, Tora, 96
National Police of Colombia, 76
Okura and Comoany, 125, 130
National Polity and Religion, 28
Olivos, Enrique, 116
National School of the Naval Academy in
Ono, Almacenes, 104
Cartagena, 74
Ono, Armando. 104
Oriental, Compania Chilena, 30
Naval Special Service Section, Jo
Oriental Raw Cotton Joint-Stock Co., 163
Negociacion Agricola N. Okada, 2
Nichinan Sangyo K.K., 151
Oriental Trading Comoany, 72
Oriente y Occident, 120, 125, 126
Nichi-Nan Sangyo Kabushiki Kaisha (also Japa-
Orosco, Alberto, 5o
nese South American Industrial Joint-Stock
Ortega de Santa Cruz, Luz Pablete (Senora), 126
Co.), 163
Nieto, Garbarino Gallardo, 115
Ortiz, Francisco, 116
Nihon Keori K.K., 151
Osaka Merchant Steamsnio Company, 162, i5
Osaka Shosen Kaisha, or 0.S.K., 17. 38, 122,
Nihon Menka K.K., 151
125, 145, 151
Nihonjin Kai, 26
Osawa, Fernando, 48
Nikko Boyeki Shokai Ltd., Tokyo, 72, 73, 74
Osawa, George Yukichi, 68
Nikumatsu Okada, J2
Oses,, Enrique, 126
Nipar Clua, 118, 124
Ota, Maso Imuro, 54
Nippon Community Society, 5
Ouro, Morro da, 151
Nippon Gawa, 90, 139
Overseas Development Company, Ltd., 15, 147
Nippon Gawa Society, 39
Overseas Emigration Societies Act, 16, 147
Nippon Jin Kai, 155
Overseas Emigration Society, 16
Nippon Kaisha, 78
Overseas Industrial Joint-Stock Co., 9c, 161,
Nippon Menka Kabushiki Kaisha of Japan, 92
163
Nippon Mining Company, 72
Overseas Japanese Central Society, 24
Nippon Trade Agency, 38, 61, 72, 74, 105, 109,
Ozaki Syeseu Kaisya, 151
156,160
Ozasa, Takeo. 116
Nippon Yusen Kaisha, 17, 38, 40, 70, 105, 109,
113, 145
Pacific Commercial Trading Co., 109
Nipponese Policy, 33
Pacific Petroleum Company, 80, 82, 83
Nipponjin Senshoku Sentaku Kumiai, 124
Pacific Refrigeration Company, 60, ol
Nisei, 84, 86, 118
Pacific Trading Co., Ltd., of Japan, 39, 90, 92
Nisei Societies, 24
Padilla, Manuel, 50
Nishi, Lucio D., 101
Pagan Religion, 147
Nishimura, Shortaro, 90
Palazio, E., & Comoany, 58
Nishino, Chieko (Mrs.), 88
Palma, Joaquin, 57
Nishizawa, Sadako (Mrs.), 134
Pampliega, Amancio (Colonel), 136
Nitobe, Inazo, 48
Panagra Airlines, 113
Nobaru Tokanaga, 66
Panama Canal, 96
Noboru Watanabe, 75
Panama-Pacific International Exhibition in
Nabuo Ikeda, 130
Panama, 147
Nobuo Yatoh, 72, 74, 75, 96
Pan-American Airways, 40
Nombei, Compania de Importacion y Exportacion
Pape, Jose Augusto Rabert y, 128
Sociedad Anonima, 130
Parana Northern Railway, 159
★
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATINAMERICA

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 177
Pardo Tovar and Company, 73
Sanhuesa, Jorge, 114
Parrot, Amos Carl, 156
Sanko Kabusiki Kaisya Company, 151, 156
Pataky, Moris D., 58
Santa America Weekly Report, 150
Patent Office, 36
Santa Cruz, Alberto Veloz, 115, 117, 126
Patriarchal Period, 8
Santiago Sakay, 96
Paz, Jose C., 118
Santos, Carlos de, 116
Peace Preservation Law, 5, 24
Sanwa and Company, Kobe, Japan, 101, 103
Pear1 Harbor, 11, 44, 45, 61, 68, 80, 95, 96,
Sao Paulo Police, 150, 157
101, 131, 134
Sato, Katuya (Captain), 55
Peralta, Alfred Robehein, 74
Sato, Masayoshi, 89
Perreira, Reuben, 114
Satoh, Hitoshi, 55
Perry (Commodore), 1, 4, 10, 13, 30, 35
Schultz, Franz, 156
Peru Colonization Society, 98
Seclusion Policy, 13
Peru Kyoiku Renmal Kal (Peru Educational
Security Law, 115
Federation), 86
Sedta German Airline, 80
Pflucker, Wilfredo, 98
Segul e Companhla, 149, 151
Philippines, 72, 147, 163
Seibe Okamura, Jose (Dr.), 51
Phillips, Abraham Z., 46, 48
Seiichi Ametanl, 78, 79
Picado, Teodoro, 60
Seljiro Yazawa, 78
Picasso, Francisco, 97
Seinenkai (Young Men's Association), 133
Popenoe, Dr. Wilson, 60
Seite Sato, 158
Port Said, 41
Selti Morlyi, 158
Portuguese Charge d'Affaires, 44
Seiyukal Party, 6
Portuguese Legation, 44, 47, 50, 52
Selzo Mogami, 98
Prado, Manuel (President), 88, 96
Senda Company, 113
Pratt and Whitney Company, 131
Senjiro Hatanaka, 150
Prieto, Jr., Esteban, 69
Sentel Yage, 84, 97
Primary Schools (Japanese), 151
Serrano Suner, 75
Prince Ito, 11
Shigehiko, Miyakawa, 159
Proclaimed List of Certain Blocked Nationals,
Shigeki Katagawa, or Shigeki Tatekawa, 72, 74
69, 73, 75, 76, 101, 104, 136, 139, 140
Shigeo Okubo, 120
Produtos Agricolas, Ltda., 151
Shigetada Moriyama, Eduardo (Dr.), 51
Protestant Religion, 2
Shigetaro Tanaka, 95
Pugnolin, Alfino (Dr.), 125
Shigeto Kishl, 136, 139
Shigeyuki Ozawa, 79
Quamudio, Escela, 88
Shiguezo Okada, 150
Quota System (Japanese), 161
Shimabara Rebellion, 10
Race Riots, 10
Shimizu, Luis, 52
Radio Expreso, 114
Shimizu, Toshio (Dr.), 52, 53
Rajul, Arturo, 73
Shimonoseki, Choshu, 10
Ramos, R. (Dr.), 80, 82
Shin Kimitsuka, 150
Raw Cotton Joint-Stock Company, 163
Shin Takeda, 72
Raw Cotton Joint-Stock Company's Parupa
Shinichl Matsuo, Salvador, 47
Plantation, 99
Shinichi Suganami Okumura, 74
Religious Organizations Law, 2
Shintaku, T., 125
Revista Nippon, 109, 115
Shintoism, 2, 24, 26
Ricarte, Artemio, 133
Shirakata, S., 107
Riguero, Manuel, 58
Shiraki, Antonio, 57
Rio Conference, 97
Shiraki, Jose Tameto, 57
Rio de Janeiro Treaty of 1942, 83
Shiro Kuramoto Naito, 74
River Plate Market Gardeners Association, 124
Shiziji Haramoto, 109
Rockefeller Foundation, 154
Shoichi Yokay, 69
Rodriguez, Luis Omar, 109
Shonosuke Oka, 139
Roumanian Legation, 113
Shota Kanzaki, 150
Shoten Renmai Kai (Japanese Youth Federation),
Ruge, Joachim, 48
Ryoiti Mizutani, 72
88, 90
Shozo Mural, 126, 134
Saburo Ohmura, 79
Shukicki, lagara, 140
Saburo Suzuki, 88, 131
Sindicato Explotador de Sauapullo, Ltda., 92
Sadayoshi Nakayama, I11
Sievers, Hugo K., 116
Said Hanna, 80
Sinaloa de Leyva, 52
Saijiro Tsuji, 134
Sino Japanese War, 11, 28, 133
Saito, Alejandro, 47, 49, 51, 52, 53
Sociedad Agricola Caupolican, Ltda., 110
Saito, Ernesto Itaru, 54
Sociedad Agricola de Isla de Pinos, 66
Sakae Nishihara, 150
Sociedad Agricola Retes, Ltda., 92, 96
Sakae Watay, 78
Sociedad Anonima Comercial Mitsubishi-Chile, 113
Sakura Maru, 98
Sociedad Anonima Taibo, 92, 96
Salva Conductos, 97
Sociedad General, 80, 82
Sangiro, Ambo, 155
Sociedad Japanese, 46
JAPANESEMONOGRAPH-LATIN AMERICA

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 178
Sociedad Japonesa de la Republica de Cuba, 64, 6o
Takesho Takenoka, 113
Sociedade Colonizadora do Brasil, 149, 151
Takeyasu Hombo, 105, 113
Sociedade Comercial Nipo-Brasileira, Ltda., 15y
Takinami, B., 139, 140
Sociedade Juventude de Sol Nascente, 155
Takinami, Bumpel, 140
Sol Naciente Group, 64
Tamanoushi, Hideo, 150
Solis, Amanda Parodi de (Sra.), I11
Tamariz, N. Aviles, 83
Soshiro Yamada, 140
Tamematsu, Okano, 159
South American Bank, 163
Tamura, E., 66
South American Colonization Joint-Stock Co.,. 163
Tamura, Yoshiyuki, 88
South American Cotton Company, 130
Tanabe, Benjamin, 57
South Manchurian Railway Company, 37, 38, 66
Tanabe, Reikichi, 109
South Seas Development Association, 38
Tanaka, Claudio, 104
Southern Cotton Company, 92, 117
Tanaka, Hideo, 39
Souza, Antonio Jose Silva de, 122
Tanake, Okura, 124
Souza, V. S., 58
Tamotsu, Kodama, 159
Sozan Miyoshi, 105
Tateishi, Victor, 86, 88, 90
Spanish-American War, 133
Tatsu Mizuno, 161
Spanish Consulate, 158
Tatsunosuke Harada, 150
Spanish Embassy, 64, 86, 88, 30, 130, 151, 157
Tatsuo Mizokoshi, 110, 117
Spanish Legation, 73, 74, 75, 103
Tatsuo, Ozaki, 156
Spanish Press and Propaganda Department, 128
Tayama, Kitsuichi, 109
Spil1man, Franz (Dr.), 82, 96
Teipel, George, 113
Spozeto, Carlos, 158
Telles, Alberto Goes (Doctor), 130, 157, 158
Standard Oil Company, 83
Teruo Miyaki, 108, 117
Sub Comite Japones de Auxilio Mutuo, 51, 53
Tesima, Harou, 36
Suda of Iwai. 124
Tetsurei Segui, 151
Suekaza Miura, 130
Tetuo Morimura, 75
Suematsu, Daizaburo, 122
Third Sunday Ciub, 90
Suetaka Hayao, 150, 158
Tingo, Maria, 86, 92
Suetomi, K., and Company, 60, 96
Toa Communications Company, 126
Suganami, S., 72
Toa Katsu Iha, 126
Sugano, Joshio, 54
Toa Travel Bureau, 126
Sugano, Yoshio, 54
Togushi, Jinichiro, 95
Sumitomo Bank, 38
To jo, Kideki (General), 6
Surroco, Pedro, 60
Tok and Niwa Company also known as Zaki Shirato
Suskichi Matsukawa, 109
Company), 159
Susuki Nakatsuka, 117
Tokugawa Family, 4
Suzuki, Fujio, 72
Tokugawa Shogun, 10
Suzuki, Junji, 90
Tokujiro Furuta, 131, 134
Suzuki, Kanematsu, 124
Tokuya Koseki, 145
Suzuki, Kantaro (Admiral) (Baron), 6
Tokyo News Agency, 115
Suzuki, Toshitake (Dr.), 80, 82, 83
Tome-Assu, 158
Swiss Foreign Office, 117
Tomekiti Kira, 159
Swiss Legation, 118, 120, 134
Toramatsu Yamada, I1I
Toranosuke Nakamura, 72
Tabata, Seijiro, 88
Torii, Buitoro, 72
Tadao Kudo, 156
Torojiro Hayakawa, 103
Tadao Nakamura, 72, 82
Tosa Clan, 11
Tadao Sato Ito, 80, 82, 83
Tosha, Oscar K., 49
Tadao Taniguchi, 97
Toshimitsu Maeda, Rodolfo (Viscount), 47, 48, 49
Taibo, Casa, 117
Toshio Doku Shiotani, 74
Taikwa Reform Edict, 8
Toshio Komuro, 156
Taisei Yokusan Kai, 6
Toussui Aquiyama, 156
Taisi Yohksan Do:hi Kai, 155
Toyo Menka Kaisha, Ltda., 117, 130, 151
Takado, Itsuki,
Toyokei Senda, 117
Takahashi, Hiroji. 82
Toyotomi Hideyoshi, 9
Takahashi, Mitsuo Doctor), 52
Trade Agreements, 18
Takahashi, Rinuemon, 89
Traders, Dutch and Chinese, 13
Takakusu, Junjiro, 30
Transradio Internacional, 131
Takamoto, Hosokawa, 134
Treaty with Japan August 21, 1873, 84
Takao, Arai, 134
Tres Barras, 149
Takassuji, Iwao, 154
Trunezo Yagi, 72
Takay, Sigeji, 79
Tsuneharo Fujii, 158
Takemura Imin Kaisha, 149
Tsuneji Shimitzu, 109
Takenaka, Iwao, 90
Tsunekawa, Kyutaro, 112
Takeo Nishiama, 155
Tsuneo Kaike, 108
Takeo Nishizawa, 120, 134
Tsunenaga, dasekura, 13
Takeo 0zasa, 107, 117
Tsuru, Kiso (Dr.), 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 52, 54
Takeshi Takenaka, 108
Turo Mining Company, 45
★
JAPANESE
MONOGRAPH.LATINAMERICA
★

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
Turu Mining Company, 3.A., 46
Yokohome, 73, 76, 96
Yokohama Shokin 6inke, 151
Uchida, Chihiro, 136
Yokohama Seecle Bank, su, 107, 117, 180.
Uchida, Rychel, 133
134,162
Umara Baba, TokIchl, 46
Yokohama Specle Bank Bidg., 140
Unlon of Japanese Dyers and Laundrymen, 135
Yokota, Kanelchl Alfonso, 
United Fruit Company, 60
Yokovirl, Rynicht, 113
University of Brazii, 149
Yomluri-Hochi, 131, 134
University of Mexico Law School, 49
Yomural, 156
University of Michigan, 154
Yonai Cabinet, 6
Unloading Japanese Goods in Callao, Peru, J8
Yonekura, Yuzo, 79
Urbina, Lizandro Arriagado, 115
Yonosuke HagIwara, 107
Urrutia, Jullo, 128
Yonsha, 110
Utida, Atunari (Lieutenant Colonel), 95
Yoritomo, y
Van Reed, James M., 13
Yoro, Honduras, 57
Vargas, R., 116
Yoshida, M. T., and Company, 61
Vatican, 13
Yoshifumi Murota, 84
Veinte Naciones, 114
Yoshimune, 10
Velasco de Alcazar, 130
Yoshio Yoshikawa, 72
Velasco, Angel Alcazar de, 128
Yoshio Miyakawa, 125
Veloz Santa Cruz, 115
Yosioka, Eitaro, 95
Vergara, Mario, 115
Young Men's Christian Association, 155
Vetter, Arthur, 96
Yturbe (General), 128
Vierling. Gustav, 115
Yugo Kusabake, 155
Villa, Lolita, 82
Yumoto, Teijiro, 89
Villacana, Ofelia, 54
Yuzo Tomito, 156
Volberg, Heinrich, 122
Zaki Shirato and Company, 159
Von Tuerckheim, Otto Guenther (Baron), 48
Zaki Syirato and Company, 157
Von Adelmannsfelden, Graf Adelmann, 158
Zig-Zag, 114
wakigawa, Tomessaku, 154
Zinsser, Christian, 57
waseda University, 157
watano, Yasuighi, 90
West India Oil Company, 61
Williamson Balfour and Company, 112
Wyss, Margot Ander Fuhren de, 116
Xavier de Oliveira P., 149
Xavier, St. Francis, y
Yacobori, Renich, 113
Yacota, David, 58
Yacota, Petronila, 58
Yamada, S., y Compania, 139, 140
Yamagata, Kiyoshi, 76
Yamagata, Ki joshi, 1l1
Yamamoto, H., and Co. of Kobe, Japan, 96
Yamamoto, Jorge, 111, 112
Yamanoha Group (The), 64
Yamaota, Masaji, 96
Yamashita, Yoshihei, 79
Yamashita, Yuzo Yonekura, 78
Yamato Damashil, 3
Yamato Race, 3
Yamazaki, Felipe Isokichi, 53
Yameda, Yoshio, 158
Yanome, Ernesto M., 44, 46, 53
Yashiro, Eduardo Yashiro v, 58
Yasumaga, 74
Yasuda, 3
Yasuda de Nagoya (factory), 54
Yatoh, 73, 96
Yat-sen, Sun (Dr.), 133
Ybytimi, Paraguay, 136
Ychikawa, Y. S., y2
Year Book, Japan, 1940-1941, 29
Yedo, Japan, 10, 11
Yellow Perii, 61
Ynockuchi, Roberto Kenishi, 48
★
JAPANESE MONOGRAPH.LATIN AMERICA
