894.01 Japan, Government. Mandates, Recognition., July 10, 1944 - September 17, 1949 (File 1763)
ID: 894.01-1763   Pages: 402   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.01-japan-government-mandates-9
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.97)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FSICE
DIWDSDODN OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
C
July 10, 1944.
A-L
Mr. Longr
8
6
The possibility envisaged in your memorandum of
July 8 of the eventual flight of the Emperor and the
0
responsible Japanese officials from Japan to China is by
no means fantastic. I have continually spoken of such a
poseibility. I do not, however, think that it 1s a
matter which need give us serious conoern.
-1044
As to what should be done to prepare to meet such a
situation, this would seem to be primarily a military
question which the State Department 1s not competent to
determine.
The directives which we have drawn up for the
guidance of our armed forces after occupying the main
1slands of Japan are largely flexible, owing to many
imponderable factors involved. We are therefore leaving
to the military and civil administrations a wide latitude
in order to permit them to use whatever assets they may
find available for the establishment and maintenanoe of
order and security. It is not believed that the prior
flight from Japan of the Imperial Family and the high
Japanese officials, both military and civil, would
necessitate any fundamental alterations in our directives.
We shall not know - even approximately - until we ocoupy
Tokyo, how many Americans will be needed to carry on the
civil administration because, as I pointed out in the
Post-War Planning Committee, it 1s conceivable that the
Japanese officials, both high and low, may refuse all co-
operation. We must therefore be ready for any situation,
whether the Imperial Family and the high officials flee
O
or remain. Even ir they stay, it is not beyond the bounds
S
of possibility that they may refuse all cooperation in
administering the country.
If the Emperor and his High Command elect to tranefer
the seat of government to Manchuria - it 1s hard to
conceive of there being any expectation on the part of
the

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
the Japanese of their being able to maintain successfully
a Japanese regime on the continent unless it were based
on Manohuria - our military problem will simply be
extended.
As regards possible political counter measures, it
might be advantageous for the occupying authorities in
Japan to deolare that the Emperor by having abandoned
his homeland had voluntarily abdioated. The question
whether the military government should thereupon set up
another member of the Imperial Family as the Emperor's
successor or should treat the emperor institution as
having been terminated should be decided in the light of
an estimate of the situation after our ocoupation of
Tokyo. It is quite possible that the fact or the
abandonment by the Emperor of his homeland could be
utilized to great effect as a propaganda point to break
down remaining Japanese resistance.
This whole problem would of course be greatly
altered if Soviet Russia should attaok Japan prior to
our occupation of Tokyo.
CIT.E
Joseph C. Grew
FE:JCG:AY

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.92)
894.01/2-945
CROSS-REFERENCE FILE
NOTE
SUBJECT
Transmits a memorandum ontitled "An International
Organization of Free Japanese".
894.01/
()
1~
54
C7
h8/mh
For the original paper from which reference is taken
See
Lotter
7.
(Deoputcb, telegrum, instruction, letter, etc.)
in
Fobo. 9, 1945
From!
Chungking
Dated
Tρ/
File No
740.0011 P.W./2-945
1 1640

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.95)
UNCLASSIFIED
f.le
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAPANESE
DIVISION OF BAR XEASDBRX AFFAIRS
February 14, 1945
ERD
EHD
JWB
JKE
Reference underlying despatoh by Mr. Emmerson, of
894.01/2
February 9, and its enclosures regarding the possible
establishment of an international organization of
"Free Japanese". This 1s an elaboration of an idea
previously advanced by Mr. Emmerson and whioh you have
seen but I bel leve you will want to read the despatch
and its enclosures in full.
You will note that Mr. Emmereon stresses that any
2-1445
such organization should not be officially sponsored by
the United States Government nor possess official or
political charaoter. However, it seems to me that it
will inevitably have a political character. For example,
Mr. Emmerson states that "such an organization might
provide a unifying, stabilizing politioal force of
cruolal value to us" immediately following the oooupation
of Japan. Okano's letter includes the statementg "We demand
that JPEL Japanese People's Emancipation League should
participate in the democratio government of Japan in the
future, because JPEL is one or the main foroes whioh
JK/CS
are able to guarantee a stable peace in the Pactfio". It
seems to me that one of the prinoipal points on which
Mr. Emmerson will have to satiefy the Department is
that the establishment of an organization of "Free Japanese"
S
would not inevitably involve us in political entanglements
which would be embarrassing during the reconstruotion of
Japan and essentially incompatible with our demanding
of unconditional surrender by Japan.
The mechanics of establishing an organization of
this nature would obviously be difficult and involve
matters of interest not only to the State Department
but to other agencies of the Government, and would oal
for careful examination 1f Mr. Emmerson's proposal wer
accepted in prinoiple
NF
It seems

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
UNCLASSIFIED
BECRET
-2
It seeme to me that the best procedure for
determining whether it would be feasible to establish
an organization such as the one Mr. Emmerson has in
mind or whether we should confine our efforts to
exploring the possibility of indoctrinating and using
Japanese prisoners of war as 1ndividuals would be
for Mr. Emmerson to prepare a paper for consideration
by the Interdivisional Area Committee on the Far East
and I recommend that he be authorized to disouss this
procedure wi th Mr. Blakeslee.
JA:Johansen:KMB

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.95)
JHE
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
OFFICE
File
DKXISDON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 19, 1945
BRJ:
ERD:
EH):
JWB:
Te organization of Japanese, wlich might be called
by some such name as "The International Japanese Peoples
Liberation Alliance", woulu not be officially and pub-
licly sponsored by the United States Government. If
The Department of State approves tne project in principle
details of facilitating contact among Japunese elements
and n setting up the organization mi ht well be left
to agencies such as OWI and OSS which will be directly
FW
interested.
894.01/2
I ao not believe tne orranization need be one
which will embarass the Department aur!ng the recon-
struction of Japan. It can be made clear from the
beginning that it in no way partakes of the character
of a "Provisional Government". I doubt that even if
we so desired, we could find Japunese outside Japan of
sufficlent caliber to pretend to rovernmental leadership.
Presumnably our plans for tle occupation of Japan call
for complete control. We could tiherefore use the organ-
1445
ization as we saw fit.
Okano may or may not have personal pditical ambi-
tions. if he thougnt it feasible, he might desire to
set up a Communist Government for Japan. I do not be-
lieve he thinks it possible and I believe he 1s sincere
in his announced support of a mouerate democratic program
for Japan. lHowever, s ould hussia enter the war against
Japan, we might at some future time rind ourselves faced
witn a woll-thought out Russian plan for apan in which
JK
Okano's groups plays a part.  thournt is tut we
should use the onmunists and not they us.
To make our pacification of Japan succeed we may.
S
need to c ntact ail elements in Japan rather ti.an rely
exclusively on any one group of "moderates" or collab-
oraters who may appear. The existence of un organizatio
lation.
2
-1445
Dn.

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
7
UNCLASSIFIED
-2-
If the organization is to be useful in psychological
warfare, it snould be formed immediately. As the war is
brought directly to the home islands we need a group of
Japanese who may speak to Japan in a way no American can.
I believe radio broaacasts by Japanese in the name of
an organization and leaflets signed by such an organi-
zation may have an important effect on the civilian popu-
lation. if formed at all, the association should be set
up at tre aarliest possible moment.
I have discussed this problem with Dr. Blakeslee and
am preparing a paper for presentation to the Inter-
divisional Area Committee on the Far East. The above
corments are for the information of officers of FE and
will be incorporated in the paper.
FE:JL:NAB

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.88)
SECURTY CLASSIFICATION
FORM DS-
3-5-47
REQUEST FOR DECLASSIFICATION OR DOWNGRADING
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
SECIION A
5121510N
ROOM NO.
FE
2951
NS
3151
2.
AA
ROOM NO.
Wilson C. Flake
FE
4834
NS
3181
DC/R
S1I:10L
IFATION
Memorandum
TO:
DATE
ERD, EHD.JWB, JKE
2-14-45
FROM
JA;Johansen
SI BJFCT
Re desnatch entitled "An International Organization of 'Free' Japanese"
SECRET
SECTION
NEVIEW THE SUBJECT
NCLASSIFIED
OF THE ASST SECY
3-12
U. Alexis Johnson
FOR FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
INSTRUCTIONSI
n A and all of Section B of
thia form in uplate.
2 cops this r
uwnts o te downgraded or de-
lassified, will te forwar led to the  tion or
w:' the dot ument attached where
practrcable.
3 Theonr oriinatiny divisn
wirran, declassify or downgrade the
docunntyplein eton thi orm in dup
pis to the division responsible for
maintainin the offcial recort  opy.
 Te ivisnatis the ustdian  the r  upn re pt  this form, wll file the
  so.hae the lan on the rt y  d wen volved. and forward the
duplateopy  this form t the division initiating the reues
The division whh initiated the reques
'kn, nut the neressary changes
trm l-507 to the Chief, Di-
eclassifiration, the

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.89)
February 15, 1945.
Mr. Erle R. Lickover, Chief,
I tutston of Janin se Afiaire,
D partment of Stute,
4
iashingtun, D. C.
894.01/
My dear Hr. Dickover:
Your let er of Feuruiry 12thr with enclosure
is thankfully vcknowledgeu.
Ine  pur tment's puiicy towara"free move-
ments" seems suuni fur generul applic. tion. "It prefere
2
t.at tie governiny cummiitees of sucn movenints shall be
composea of cttizens  t.e fureiyn cuuniry, rather tuan
rcan symputers."
wuld tiis lant-quuted attitude a nly to
5
Jupan se born in ti ls c uniry? Cuuld they consider them elves
as "Amer tcan sypathtner "?
Arruning, if I may, jor a noment, thet every
imer ican citizen  as the natural right of forming the
p lictes of all ucpartments of his government, also that
events ot the r ent war ave laughit us many new things
since. ee mber l0, 1341, lie di f tie Press helease you C
kind ln sont , Ilu bo v " or cojul co you if you asked 
the masers of the pol icy to raconsider its present effective-
ness, esp ola'ly in the cure of Japan, for the folloving
re sons;
I. An A erlcan Committce for a Free Japan, .aue up
of nmer icans ani inclu ing tuose of Japanese stock,
would lelp the orule o tn Jop nese unocratic
elom nts a.r udy ttins jor our country as well
a. thove a' xicus to juin tliem in pressntly controlled
enemy lands.
100
such committee, unuer pr per government  aperviston,
could make its appeals to the at pr sent small out
nevrrtheless tu be rrckoned wlth, veetlin of the
Jaan se  , navy ani cluiilan pupulaton, tat is
dr nveratie ian tlereby save many am rlcan lives.
.uer Comittee could r pur come cnpt nt men and
women to at an army f occupat lon.
2
ty
Sinc-rely,

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
25
0.10
In reply refer to
JA
Hy deur Mr. Muldavin:
8
I am glnd to aoknowledge the reoeipt of your letter
6
with further referenoe to the question or Ameriean partiel-
pation in "free movements". You inquire if the Department's
pref-r noe thnt the governing committeee of suah movemente
be compcsed of oltizens of the foreign country, rather than
0
of sympathizers of Amerioan natlonality, applies to "Japamese
born in thls country" and whether they could conelder them-
pelves as "Amerioan symrathizers".
This Covernment's polioy a  lies to all Amerieans
2
regardless of raoial origin. Jspanese born in the United
tater are, of coura-, American oitizens.
I belleve that if you wiil reread in the light of the
foregoing explan tion, the press r-lease of Deeember 10, l9el,
you will be able to determine whether partiolpation in your
uroposed "Amerioan Comm:ttee for - Free Japan" would be
conslstent with this Government's polloy with regard to
pertioipation in so-oalled "free movements". In any event,
you w'll note that it ls stated in the press relemse that
"The Depurtment he not mought to inrluenoe any resident
alien r nny Amerioan oitizen in determining whether or not
1t 1s desirable for him to asmooiste himeelf with the
sunrort of any suoh free movement or any organization
designed for thet end".
For your further information, the registr-tion prooedure
ref rred to 1n the sixth paragraph of the Department s press
release 1s row under the Jurisdiotion of the Department
of Justioe
ir. Albert Muldavin,
7-1 vnshington quare North,
New York . New York.
TaUn

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.91)
-2-
of Justice which is charged with the reaponsibility of
administering the "Foreign Agents Registratiom Aet of
1938, as amended". You may, therefore, wish to get im
toueh with the Department of Justiee in order to
ascertain whether reglstration of your proposed committee
would be necessary should it be organized.
Sineerely yours,
ERS
Erle R. Diokover
Ch1er
Division of Japanese Affaire
92
Ci
PE上.345r.
MAI3 10D
EUY
JA:HL:KB
FE
FC
2/27/45
1111

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.95)
and.
Fele
VICTORY
BUY
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFF
DC/R
MILITARY INTELLIGENCE DIVISION, -2
WASHINGTON 25. D. C.
MID 912
2 August 1945
SEP
1945
FacYL
Mr. Eugene Doowman
Room 28?, State Department
Washington ?5, D. C.
Dear Kr. Dooman:
The attached unclassified study and accompanying chart
show the organization, composition, and probable routine of
the Japanese Board of Information. These materials are
based on data available at the War Department, and are cur-
rent as of this date. Monitored enemy broadcasts have been
the chief source of informetion.
Corrections or comment would be welcomed. Of parti-
894.01/8-245
cular interest would be the interrogation of persons possess-
ing recent connection with some part of the Board of Infor-
mation, however remote, who might give specific descriptions
of the correlation of the Japanese conduct of war and con-
duct of propaganda.
I look forwarc to a visit with you upon your return
and feel assured that you must be happy about the great
strides forward which have been made and to which you have
contributed so much.
Very sincerely yours,
CS/SMS
Buce Buuclio
Irel
SRUJE BUT ALES
Study and chart on
Lt Jolonel. GSJ
Japanese Board of
Chief. Propaganda Eranch
Information
6
h
111
245

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.97)
SEP615
Ia reply refer to
JA
My dear Colonel Buttles:
I have been asked, in view of Nr. Dooman's retire-
ment to private life, to acknowledge the reeeipt of your
letter of Angust 2, 1945, together with the study and
chart of the Japanese Board of Information.
I thank you for making this useful informatiom
available to the appropriate officers of the Department.
Sineerely yours,
ERD
Erle R. Diekever
Chiof
Division of Japanese Affairs
Lt. Colonel Bruoe Buttles,
Chief, Propaganda Branoh,
Military Intelligenoe Division, a-2,
War Department General Staff,
War Department,
CR
Washington, D.C.
345
JA:HLory:mle
9-5-45

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.93)
a2. 15,1905
Piles
Central
0C/
PORT-SIRRENDER GOVENINENTAL CHANGES IN JAPAN
Document Must Be Returned
I.
The lachi mal Cahnt
Fall of busuki eabinot--August 16, 194s.
Appointment of Higashi-Kuni as Premier--Augmst 17,19ss.
Two fasts were without preeedent im the formasiem ef
the eabinet: (1) the personal seleesion of a Prime Mimister
by the Emperor wi thout eomsultation with elder statesmems
(2) the seleetion of a prinee or the bleod as Prime Mimiaser.
Or the thirteen Cabinet members, eight previously held Cabé-
met posts and two had been Cabinet Advisers. The Fereige
8
who served in the same capacity under Tojo and Koise. e
Finance and Home Nimlsters were professlonal sivil servamts
with long experienee; the Nimisters of Justiee, Agrieultare,
and Edueatiomal Welfare also had good technieal qualifieatiems
894.01/8-1545
and were members of the Diet of long standing. Sasimess was
represented by Naoto Kohiyama, Transportation Mimister, whe
was presldent of the Showa Steel Werks and the Seuth Namekari-
an Railway, and by Chikukel Wakajima, fownder of the 1ll-fated
Nakajima Aireraft Company, both of whom represented the elass
of industrialists closely allied to the military.
Nembere of the Cabinas
Premier
Maruhiko Migashi-Kum1
Agriculture and Forestry
Kotaro Sengoku
Education
Tamon Naeda
Finance
Juich1 Tsushima
Foreign Affairs
Namoru Shigemitsu. Replased
by Shigeru Yoshida on
Sopt. 17, 1945
Home Affairs
Iwao Yamasaki
Justice
Chuso Iwata
Commeroe and Industry
Chikuhei Nakajima
Navy
Mitsusasa Yona1
Transportation
Naota Kohiyama
ar
Sadamu Shimomura
C
Welfare
Kenzo Matsumura
Ministers without
00
Portfolio
Toshiro Obuta
nal
Prince Fuminaro Konoye (Viee-
K
Taketora Ogata
-1545
II. Administrative

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.95)
-2
IX.
nitrative d gevernal Chae er the
1. Nost striking of the Japamese admimistrative alterations
has been the restoration of the Cabinet mimistries largely to
their status prior to Tojo's reerganisation ef Mevember l9es.
Thus the Nunitions Ninistry set up at that time to soordimate war
production has been abolished. The Agrieulture and Cemmeree Mim-
istry, also a produot of Tojo's reorgamisation, has been diseelved
and the two ministries from which it derived its funetions, Cem-
meroe and Industry and Agrioulture and Forestry have been reeem-
stituted. The Board of Communleations, senarated from the Mimist-
ry of Traneportation and Communications in the last months of the
war, 1s to revert to its original nosition as an independemt mim-
1stry. On August 25, the Greater East Asla Ninistry was abeerbed
by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In addition, within a mamber
of the ministries whose status has not been alterel, new bureaus
and srecial committees have been set ur and old ones abelished to
meet the changed conditions under which the government mast oper-
ate.
Within the Forelgn Minlstry, a Central Bureau for Daaleom om
the Termination of the War was set up to "act as an intermediary
through which the Japanese Government will deal with the Supreme
Commander of the Allied occupation force." It will provide met
only for supnlying food and quarters for the oeempying ferees, but
also will "receive any demands the Allied command will make to the
Jananese authorities concerned, and assume the responsibility fer
carrying them out."
The Surreme Counoll for the Directlon of the war was replased
by a Conference on the Termination of the War to be composed of
the War, Navy, and Foreign Ministere, the Chiefe of Staff, and
Prinoe Koneye Fumimaro, Minister without Portfolio. Under this
body a sneoial committee composed of leading officials will act as
liaison ofrice for the varlous ministries. A Postwar Lialson of-
fice was decided upon on :ont. 2?. 
2. Dissclution or Civillan Volunteer Corme -- August 21.
3. Imperial Headquartera diabanded on Sentember 10. CA Post-
war Measures Deliberation Council was inaugurated on Sentember 27.
4. In matters of local adminiatration, 1t was decided on
Jontember 2A to renlace the Regional Surerintendent General by a
Reglonal Adminlstrative Affaire Bureau. The latter was to be
small in scale as comrared to the former.
5. The dectsion

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.95)
-s
B. The Geelslom to abolish the Gemeral Staff Offiee
and the Naval Oemeral Staff was made on September 29.
6. A Dlet system Deliberation Coumeil (Imvessigatien
Counell of the Diet) was set uo in order to investigate the
opinlons of the Unner and Lower Howses in regard to the set-
up and funotlone of the Dlet and at the same time te make
propoeals to the Premier in regard to these mattere.
7. On Cotober 3 the Privy Counoll abolished the leeal
Superintendents General ofrices, the Wartime Education Law,
the Wartime Government Servie- Law and the Tartime Edweatiom-
al Orrioial Imrerial Ordinance.
8. Jlssolutlon of Blaok Dragon Soolety
III. Shidahara Cabinel
The resignatlon of the Higashi-Kun1 Cabinet on Ootober 5
closely follewed the lssuance of Allied ordere for the release
of political rrisoners, abolition of laws restrieting pelisieal
freedom, and eismissal of the Home Affairs Mimister and the
ahlefe of polloe throughout the nation. while these orders were
aprarently the immediate cause of the resignatien, there have
been indieations that 1t was also due to inereasing publle dis-
satlsfaotion an: impatienee with the Cabinet's funetioming. The
new Cabinet 1s led by Baron Shidehara Kujuro, a 73 year ol& ex-
diplomat who was last sotive in rublic life about fifteem years
ago. His policy as Foreign Winister during 1929-31, in the
Minseite cabinets of Harraguohi and Wakatsuki was oharaeterised
by conoiliatlon toward China and 1t was during his term of of-
fioe that the London Naval Limitation Treaty was formulated and
then ratified over the strong onposition of the military.
jhidehara's cabinet ls composed of men with experiomee in
diplomaoy and foreign affairs, career government ofriclals, md
business men; an unusually large number (eleven out of elxteem)
have had exmerlence in one or both Houses of the Diet. The new
cabinet 1noludes six holdovers from the preceding Higashi-Kwm1
cabinet: Foreign MinistencYoshida Shigeru, ar Mimister Gener
al Sadamu Shimomure, Navy Minister dmiral Yonal Miteumasa, Eau-
cation Ministen Maeda Tamom, Justice MinisterIwata Chuso, and
Kawal Tatsuo, President of the Bureau of Informatlon.
In this connectlon, the last-minute subatitution of Admirel
Yonml Mitsumasa for Admiral Toyada Soemu as Navy Minister is of
intorest. Yonal hai refused to serve again on the grounde of
11:-nea18h

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
-4
111-health, bet at the last pouent he replaood Topode, tho
Ls Chief or the Naval General Btarf. The emly reasen givem
was that Teyede had in the pest ep osed the simalsemesss
holding by one indivi dmal of the poste of Wavy Wimister and
Chief or the Waval Gemeral Staff, and folt that he eould mes
mow hold both nosts eoneurremtly.
The mew Premler, Baron Shidehara, was comaested la years
past with the Ninselto, one of the two maim pre-war pelltleal
parsies, and several membere or his Cabinet alse have Mimseite
coanections. These include Tramspertatien Nimister Temaka Takee,
ome-time manager or the Minselto; Agrieulture ani Forestry Mim-
1ster Nateumure Ienso; and Teugita Jalsaburo, who was appeinted
cencurremtly Chief Sesretary end State Wimister. Justiee Mim-
ister Iwata Chuso probably also has Ninselso coaneesiems; he was
appointed to the House of Peers in 1931, while the Mimseito was
La pever. The other former party, the Beljukai, is represemted
by Àshida Mitoshi, Mimister of Welfare.
The Liberal Party, one or the new parties now develeping, Ls
and Marahashi Wataru, Chief of the Legislative Bureeu. Le mem-
bers of the Bocialist Party are inoluded.
Hembare of the Cabinet
Premier
Baron HiJure Shidehara
Foreign Affaire
Yoshida Shigere
Yar
General Sadame Shimesura
savy
Admiral Nitsumasa Yenal
Rome Affairs
Zenjiro Horikiri
Education
Tamon Naoda
delfare
Eiteshi Ashide
Justise
Chaso Iwata
Finamse
Viecount Keizo Shibusawa
Transportation
Takeo Tanaka
Commeroe and Industry
Sankure Ogasavara
Agrieulture and "orestry
Kense Natsumura
State Xinister
Joj1 Matsumoto
State Mimister and
Chief Seoretary
Daizaburo Tougite
President, Bureau o
Information
Tatsuo Kawai
Chier, Cabinet Legislative
Bureau
Wataru Warahashi
"rogran Sí

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.95)
-8
Lrasrgp ef Shidehara Cabincl
(1) Reergemization ef the parliamentary system as well
as establishment of a demoeratie goverament by respeeting the
fundamental rights of the demoeratie peeple.
(2) Restore the freedem of press, meeting, and assosis-
tiom.
(3) Formalate measares for the present critieal demestie
probleme--food supplies, clothing, living quarters, reeonstrue-
tion of war devastated areas.
(4) Whe Unemploymemt problem, relier measures.
(s) To change the admimistrative set-up and the bareaneratio
systes.
(7) Financial and industrial measures.
(a) Educational measures.
Iv. AÉmiaietrative and Goveramental Changes under the Shidahars
Cabangt
1. Ome of the first aots of the new Justice Nimistry was
the abolition of the thought control seotlon in the Grimimal
Bureau as well as the fourth section of the Criminal Admimistre-
tive Bureau, whioh is sharged with orime prevention and the super-
vision and detention of prisoners.
2. Education Minister Maeda, urged the banning of militaris-
tie principles from the claseroom. "or course, such a thing as
critising the Emperor aimlessly in a classroom eammet be permitted,
but a rigid attitude, sueh as that of considering diseussions on
the Emperor as an organ in the theory of the state as a vielation
of our national polioy, will not be taken as it was im the past.
If the discussions, however, result in making a provisiom in the
Constitation, it 1s the polioy of the Education Ministry to ree
speot the free study by soholars on this subjeet."
3. Eastern Fleet Meadquarters and the Combined Fleet Mead-
quarters of the Mavy dissolved on Ootober l0.
4. Army General Starr Orfice and Naval General Staff to be
dissolved on October 15.
5. On October 11 the Imperial Mousehold Ministry aamoumeed
the appointment of Dr. Bolohi Sasaki, an expert on the Japanese
Constitution, and Prinee Fumimaro Konoye as advisers to the Lord
Keeper of the Privy Seal. These appointments seem to have a de-
finite relationship to the revision of the Constitution.
6. On October 1l, the Japanese Government announced that
an extraordinary session of the Diet would be held early in Decem-
ber to revise the election laws. The following day the Cabinet
announoed the decislon to amend the Japanese eleotion laws to
grant women suffrage in the next eleotion and lower the voting age
from 2 years to 20. The age limit of candidates for publio ofrice
1 emected to be lowered from 30 to 25. These plane for the re
vislon of the voting lawe will be submitted to the special session
of the Diet. Following the enactment or these laws the Diet will
probably

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.92)
-6
probebly be diaselved and a gomoral eleetlon held Ln Jame-
ary. A semsus will be taken throughout the eoumtry Novem-
ber 1 in preparation fer the gemeral eleetiem.
7. Im order te refore the admiaiatratiem La the Neme
Mimistry, Mome Miaister Morikiri is plamming a whelesele
shake-up er the origimal govermors. In additiom, all the
Pollee Chiefs in the emtire nation will sead in their resig-
natiens. 4,s0o poliee ofrielals have already been dismissed.
IV. Formgtion or lax Pelltleal Partien la danm
(s) Mew Japam Liberal Party.
(3) Wipnon Soeialist Party.
(4) Wippon Communist Party.
(5) Japanese Emancipation League in Yeman.
(6) Imvestigation Assosiation for the Coordination of
New Japan.
(7) Iaternational Pemce Association.
1. Lan Polltleal Aaegclation
Dissolusien--September 10.
Possible reorgamisation incorporating eld Mimsel
and Seljw parties, and majority of Mouse or Representa-
tives members belonging to old Sosiety of Patriotie
Comrades. May be ealled Central Party. A greater part
of members will be made up of Lower Mouse Represemtatives
of old Mimsel narty headed by Oasa and Machida. The
Nakajime faetion or the old Seiju arty will inelmde in
additiom to Commeree Minlster Nakajima, Yomeso Naeda,
Tatsumosuke Yamasaki, Toshio Shimada, (Keino) Misakare,
Tedahike Okada and Teuneo Kanemitsu, an 1ndepemdent. À
joint meeting of all faetions was held on Oeteber 13.
2. Rey Janan Libgral Party
Leadershin--Iehiro Hatoyama (Secretary of former
Seiyakel party), Yukio Ozak1, Foreign Winister
Shigeru Yoshida.
Other participants--Tsurehel Natusumo, Seljum Ando,
Kin Ashada, wataru Narahaeshi, Heiklehi Kita, Torataro
Ushizuka, Ichiro Kono, Takeo Kimura, Shotaro Yano,
Ryoso Makino, Kotaro Bando, Jiro Hoshijima, Yasukuni
Watanabe, Iohiro Honla, Hyobei Sakaguehi, Yasutaro
Fumiro, Tagiro Hashimoto, Sudematsu Naka; former
Foreign Minister Hachiro Arita, Shijiro Sogawe,
Tomejiro Okubo, Yusaku Shimanaka, Ban Kikuehi,
Shung1 Mijazaws, Bhigeru Minamihara, Ryokichi Minobe.
he following

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.94)
-7-
The fellewing 1s a paraphrase of a speech by Ichire
Mateyame en Ostober 13.
"From the begianing, the basle feellng of Japamese
was for peaee. Bewever, (werds missing) Japem made te
be kmown as mili tary mation. There 1s ne way but the
path ef pease be baild up a mew Japem. To accemplish
this a mew pelitieal party mmst be fermed. This now
pelitieal party will stress peaee for Japam. As Japem
is ruled by Emperor, all we have to do is replase mil-
1tarism with demoeraey. Demoerasy 1s pewer. Freedem
of speech. Male and female suffrage. Ir freedem dees
not exist, then demoeraey is lest. We mast heve free-
dom. Great philosophy of China. Confueius greetly
stressed freedom of people.PFreedom of eeememy mmst
also be given to people. Govermment must plam esomomie
poliey--the world poliey.....
 First, the wmeasiness of peeple's liveliheod mst
be erased. Secondly, people mast be given every oppor-
tunity. For this, materials must be imperted. Primeiples
of education must allew peeple to express their individe-
al personalities. School students mmst be given edues-
tion to express their personalities. Freedom of eduse-
tion is therefore a mecessity too. Where there is w will
there is a way. Let us arise and gallantly build a mew
Japam."
3. pen Spialt Pr
Leadorship--Abe, Lagawa, Takano.
(Abe was former head of Social Mass Party)
Arrangements Committee
Kumakiohi Matsuoka, Tetsu Katayama, Genjiro Sugiyama,
Jotaro Kawakami, Riiehiro Matsumoto, Kamju Kate,
Suehiro Wishio, Chosaburo Mizutani, Miehizo Mirano,
Niki Kono, Inajiro Asamuma, Misao Kureda, Sho Hara,
Ko (Shinaga) Manjiro Yonekubo, Maruki Kitahara,
(Katsu Amiro), Nasabaro Suzuki, and Takaiohi Wakamura.
Party has cooperation of World Peaoe Foundation sponsor-
ed by Primce Toshitaka Tokugawa and Allianee for Reeom-
struotion of Wew Japan organized by Count Rainei Arima.
Proscp
(1) The actualization of a peace self-government of the
neople as mentioned in the Potsdam Declaration.
(2) The management of big business and industry by the
Govermment.
(3) The mechanization and electriflcation of all fields
of wor

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.92)
-0
of wort withis the masion, espeeially of agrioulture.
sien ayetem and other soelallstie enterprises.
Backarond or prolerarlan moymens a danan
orgamization the two major omes were the Proletariem Party
(Mihom Nusam To). Other organlzations that were mstive were
the General Union (Sodeomei) Association of Tramspertasiem
Comrany Workers of Tokyo (Tokyo kotsu Rode Kumial). mmd the
Natlonal Assoclation of Farmere (Zenkeku Noumim Kumial) and
the Local Assoelation of Farmers (Chihoteki Noumim Kumlal).
The Social Mase Party was orgamized 1n 1934 by eombin-
Ing the Japan Labor "arty anJ the Soclal Jemoerasle Party.
and also by amelgamating the Mational Associatiom of Farmers
through the ehannel or the Japan Labor "arty, and thn Ges-
eral Unlon through tre Soolal Democratic Party, thereby em-
larging their sphere of influence.
The Japan rroletarian Tarty was vory active in the
great cities, and had placed tr- Aseoolatlon of Tremsperte-
tion Com any workers of Tokyo an: the Natlonal Couneil mder
1ts influenee. ith the outbrea, or the China Inoidemt, Gov-
orneent authoritles under the :nfluenee of the milltary begem
restrlcting the activitles of the prol tarian movement, and
in ecember of l937 the three orgasizations whieh had been
formerly oalled the legitimate Loftists, namely, the Japem
"roletarlen Party, the National Councll, and the Asmoelation
of Fransportation Comrany workers of Tokyo, vere ordered te
disban!, and thelr leadere were arrested.
his onpression also brought unrest within the Soeial
Mass Party, whior was sa I to have an element of rightiets,
causing a split among its memberahln, those affiliated with
the former Japan Labor Party. mn: the former Sooial Demoeratle
Party.
In l93e, the year after the disbandment of the Japam Pro-
!etarian Party, some leaders or the Soclal Mass Party. inelud-
ing Juso Miwa an! Hisash1 nsou, planned to un'te this rarty
witr the Tohokal, whion had been crganized by Beigo Wakana.
Howev r. sinee Oho Kataynma an: Suehlro Wishio, who were af-
fil: ated with the former Soclal Denocratic Party. orposed such
ant: ir sayirg that it vould be tn facclatintzatlon" or th
ociel Mass Farty, this nlan or uniting with the Tohokel was
atnn'oned.
In August, 1940, wi:l: the birth of Fonoye'e New "lanning
( hintalee) some mombere, heuled by Hisasht, suppor l tre
movoment

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.93)
movemens or all pepresentatsvee of the Lover Neuse of the
perial Male Assissamee Asseeiatien. Nembers afrillated with
the fermer Japem Laber Party all respemded te shis mevement
and Jeiaed the Imperial Bule Assistamee Asseeletlen, but
Party were oppesed te Joiming it, the Seelal Nass Party be-
eame divided and finally was disselred.
Fellowing the disselution of the Seclal Mass Party, te-
and the General Ualon were erdered to diabend. Vith thle metlon
the systematie work of the preletarian movemens, aleng with
1.tenee.
The present matlen-vide mess soelallstlo movement hes been
atarted by members of the former Japam Labor Party mad these ef
the former Soeial Demoeratie Party, whieh hed beem divided sinse
the China Ineldent, and also by the members of the fermer Japem
Proletarian Party, a combined actlon of three orgamizatlems.
Alm--to establish a true demoeraey whieh will be free frem
the nationalim mnd militarlem of the pest.
when the l6 Japanese Commaniste who had been 1mprisemed at
the Osaka Prefestural Pemitentlary were questiemed by Ise,
a eorresnendent of the American Éexe Weskly, on the pessi-
bilities of Sovlet assistanee and advice, they save a mege-
tive reply to this question, adding that the Japamese Cem-
munists were intending to keen their group as an indepemdemt
orgamisation based on their own Japamese prineiples. The
standing 20 years of suffering and oppression without alter-
ing their bellefs, but almo agreed that they no longer pee-
sess their former fighting spirit.
Yoshlo Shiga, leader of the Communist Party, made the
following statements in connectlon with the reorganlsation
or the Communlst Party.
"In order for Janan to organize herself on a
demooratie basis, it is necessary for her to abolish
her present system of Fmreror rule. The reason for
thie is that as long as Em eror rule remaine, the
vestiges of the military oaste and the clan or vessals
might use the mreror to regain their power.
..as long as Baron 3hidehara himself retains
l1rect relations with the Mitsui olan, the new Govern-
ment cannot be sal to e rerresanting the people's
will. The ne Jovernment is only aixing to proteot the
interests

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.89)
-10-
Latereste ef the poveraing clase cnd should met
be givem reeogmisien.
would be in ssquainting the resple with demeereey.
 n L    
nm.
Leaderekip--Susume Okane.
Light-point progras--Augast ?4, 1946
(1) to form a provislomal govermment  the besis ef a
demeeratie leagwe or a similar ergemlsatien formed by
all the amti-war and the anti-militariet ferees.
(2) To striotly carry out the Potsdam Deelaratiem.
(3) To severely pumleh the war erimimals and to semfis-
cate their property; to dissolve all the amti-demeeratie
orgamlsations; to prehibit these who motively spperted
the wer and militarists from holding reepomsible pesl-
tiens in the politieal, seonomie, amd seelal spheres.
(s) To repeal all the reaetlonary mnd serraps lawe and
deerees and to immediately release the pelitieal prisee-
ers; to guaremtee freedom of speeeh, thoughs, bellef,
and assembly.
(s) To entwwst power to the demoeratie parllament and
te revise the Constitution ascording to demeeratie pris-
eiples.
(e) To sompletely eliminate al: foudal and nilitariet
propaganda and edueatlon, and to thoroughly earry eet
odusation based on demoeratie ideelogy.
(7) To nationalize land, banks, and Impertamt emter-
prises, and to exeraise strict control over the big
eapitalists hy the State.
(a) To lmprove the livelihood of the laboring masses
and to grant -freetive relief to the war vietims and m-
employed.
6.
Inventlgasion Aneaslatlon for tha Conetruation of Mey
Lanen
An orgamisatlon composed of let members who have beem
eleoted to the Dlet fewer than thre timee ani who had
been formorly afriliate' with the al Nicpon Political
Association.
7. Intermstlonal Pasge Asepolation
Leaderehin--foy hiko Kagawa.
Ladiviauals

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.81)
-12
country afrillated vith Ramas en Geteber 12.
Atvesates state ewmerehip, ssslal seourity and lame
redistribution.
FE/RIALDunning

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.94)
Y. T r   
The laeseapable nesessity of complotoly demebilising
industry has breaght with it attendant prebleme ef ees-
versien to the preduetien ef seaswner geeds and redistri-
butien er laber. In additien to these pheblems, the
Japanese goverament must eepe with the prespeet of
larlatlon, the shertage of feed and ether daily mesessitiss,
and the medessity fer reconstrmetien ef tramspertatiom
and other facllities.
An metive part in planning fer the future ms beem
takem by the Finanee Ministry. Under its auspiees a
pregram for streng mea ures against inflatiem and fer
government ald te agrieulture and the recomversiem ef
industry has been adepted. Prinoiples for badgetary
planning ror l946 have already been establiaked; the
neeessity fer ine reased tax rates has been anmowmeed;
and the people have been assured that ne ebstaeles will
be plased in the way ef these desiring to mke withdrewals
from gevernment savings banks. The Fimance Nimistry,
in order te seek the harmonious werking ef pest-war
lialsen affairs, deeided to create a brameh erfiee ef
the Bank of Japan withim the Post-War Liaisen Arfairs
Buream.
The demobilizatien of laber has begum with the
diabanding of the Civilian Volunteer Cerps and the re-
moval of restrietiens en jebs formerly elassified as
non-essential. Students are to be demobilised exeept
in certain fields. Ürged by the press te take drastie
measures to improve the food supply the goverament has
exempted from student demobilisation these students whe
are engaged in agrleulture, has madeplans for assisting
evasuees te return te the farms, and has premised the
farmers relief frem exeessive govermmemt supervisiem.
The Agrieulture and Ferestry Minister has annowneed that
a land development bureau is te be set up this momth.
A 5 year plan is in prospeot and heavy equkmment will
be used in developing 3 million chobu of land. It is
antioipated that the plan will bring an estimated rice
yield of 20 willion koku.
Labor Uniona
A roundtable conference on the formation of labor
unions was h-ld on October 1l and was attended by l20

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.95)
Laber leadere whe readered active serviee to the Semerel
Laber Beadquarters, the All Japan Labeg Uaion, the All
Uaien, the Tokye Empleyees' Uniom, and the Takye
(Seheel Werkers's) Uaien.
Polleving an epeaing address by Tadaieki Mare,
Tsumehire (Miki) was shosen as shairman. Diseussiems
were held on the fermatien of laber umioms. Arter
anneumeiss a deelaration, the roundtable sonferemse's
preparatery eommittee held its first meeting and desided
te establish effiees in Tokye and te begim ergamisang
laber unions throughout the eountry, dividing the wmiens
inte different industrial groups.
Vie Current Material
On October 16 the Japanese Government ammoumeed that
1t had deelded to establish within the Cabinet a
Reerganization Committee for Administrative Agemsies.
The prupese of this committee is to reduee the number
of govermment ofricials.
The Japan Socialist Party protested revisien of
the Constitutlon through the Home Arrairs Ministry and
by the affiliation or the Goverament with sertaim intellestuals.
It believes that the advioe of the publie sheuld be
sought. The mrious politieal parties should partake
in the general electiom with a positive attitude im
connestlon with constitutiomal reform, and through
their eleeted members should organize an assembly fer
constitutional reform whieh could be expested to draw
up a Constitutiom that would be truly liberal.
The Japanese Communists sought the help of its
former foe, the Soeialists, in fighting the Shidehara
Government. No reply has been received from the Soeialists.
The new Mational Federation of Toilers denouneed
the Communlst aims and reaffirmed stauneh support of
the throne,which the Communists propose to abolish.
Political factions, whieh hardly deem to merit the
name of party, appear to be forming around the personalities
of General Ugak1 and Prinee Konoye. This develonment seems
to bear a close relationship to the revislon of the
Constitution. General Ugaki 1s supported by Nasanor1
Katsu, Koyagoro Sakural, Matsunura, Minister of Agrieulture;
Tanaka, Minister or Transportation; Tadao Saire, Koku
Kawasaki Hiroshi Nakaibawa, Yusuke Tsurumi, Kei Machada,
Minoru Togo, Shichiroku Tanabe, Head Ad. Ogasawara,
Saburo Yasuml, Budayu Kogura and Kei Nakajima.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.85)
FE/R1 AbDunn ing

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
TOP SECPET
WAR DEPARTMENT
WAR DEPARTMENT GENERAL STAFT.
RECEIVED
OPERATIONS DIVISION
Date
Inituals
MAY 2 2 1946
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
DIVISION OF
26 October 1945.
MEMORANDUM FOR MR. VINCENT:
LT.'COL. HENDRICK:
CAPT. SABIN:
CAPT. DENNISON:
LT. FARLEY:
SUBJECT: Reform of the Japanese Governmental System $FE 142)
It is suggested that the following changes, essentially
rearrangement, in paragraph 4, pages 1 and 2, of SFE 142 may
assist in clarifying the conclusions of the paper, and in meeting
some tentative objections to the paper raised at the last meet-
ing of the Subcommittee:
"4. The Supreme Commander should indicate to the Japanese
authorities that the Japanese coastitutien-be-amended governmentel
system be reformed to provide:
That there be adopted a constitution in a manner
which will express the free will of the Japanese People, as
through a popularly elected constitutional convention.
3645
(Sub-paragraphs a, b, c, d, to be repaated
as new sub-paragraphs b, c, d, and e.)
"5. The Supreme Commander should also indicate to the
Japanese authorities, if the monarchial system is to be
retained, that the following specific reforms are the
minimum which will be acceptable to the Allied Powers:
(Sub-paragraphs e, f, g, h, i, and j to be
repeated as new sub-paragraphs f, g, h, i,
j, and k, with the first ll words of old
sub-paragraph j deleted.)
(Paragraphs 5, 6, and 7 to be repeated as now
paragraphs 6, 7, and 8.)"
FORYICTORY
JAMES McCORMACK, Jr.
BUY
Colonel, GSC.
WAR
BONDS
STAMPS

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
foeder
Trusteeshep
AC/R
DATE: 11/20/46
TO
: A-H - Mr. Gross
file
FROM : DA - Mr. Green
suBjEcT: United States Trusteeship Agreement for Japanese mandated
islands.
Attached hereto is a draft commentary on the
United States trusteeship agreemont for the Japanese
mandated 1slands for use by Mr. Herschel Johnson during
the forthcoming discussions in the Security Council.
This draft has been prepared for discussion at a
meeting of the workinf team this afternoon.
894.
0
20
Attchmmnt:
46
As describedbove.
DA:JFGreen

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.90)
Booond Drars7
SNSXIEHXLAL
No.
To the
Deputy Representative of the United States
to the Seeurity Goumeil,
New York, Now York.
The Leting Seeretary of State transmite to the
Deputy Representative ef the United States te the
Seeurity Gouneil, for his use in the fertheeming sor-
sideratiem by the Security Sounell ef the Umited States
draft trusteeship agreement for the Japanese Mandated
Islands, a memorandum whieh provides an interpretatiom
of eaek Artiele of the draft agreement. It will be
moted that this sommentary is more detalled with respest
to those parts of the draft agreement on whioh questioms
are most likely to arise in the Security Counell, mamely,
the Preamble, Article 8, and Artiole 13.
Enclosure:
Memorandum above deseribed.
DA:JFGreen
IS
PA
JA
FE
IP
F?Dartlett
ArWellens
Le
0
WLYEOMANS:mbr:SG:metimro'r
11/19/46

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.94)
PEAMELE
WERAs Artiele 7s of the harter of the Waited
Natiens prevides fer the establiskment ef an inter-
matiemal trusteeship system fer the admimistratiem and
supervisiem ef such territeries as may be plased there-
under by subsequent agreemente; and
WHENAs under Artiele 77 of the said Charter the
trasteeakip system may be applied to territeries mew held
under mandate; and
WHENTAS em December 17, 1920 the Ceame1l ef the
League of Natleas confirmed a mandate for the fermer
German lslands morth of the equater to Japam, to be
admimistered in ascerdanee with Artiele 2t ef she Cevenant
of the League of Nations; and
WhEkzAs Japan, as a result ef the Seeend Werld War,
has eeased te exereise any autherity in these ialands;
NOW, THEREFORr, the Security Coumeil of the United Natiems,
having satisfied itselr that the relevant artieles ef
the Charter have been semplied with, hereby reselves te
approve the fellowimg terms of trusteeship fer the Pasifie
Islands fermerly under mandate te Japan.
COMMENT
The Preamble is desigaed to demenstrate that the
legal requirements eeneerning the conelusien of this
trusteeahip agreement have been satisfied. It refers te
the relevant provisiens of the Covenant of the League of
Natiens and to the Charter of the United Nations, witheut
specifying the "states direetly concerned" as provided in
Artiole 79 of the Charter.
The first twe clauses cite Articles 75 and 77 of
the Charter whieh previde im general terms for the
establishment and applieatien of the trusteeship system.
The three soneluding cleusee deal in general with
the erueial question of the "states direetly coneerued"
1n the Japanese Nandated Islands. Artiele 79 of the
Onarter

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.94)
- 8 -
Charter raises this questien in the folleving terms: "The
terme ef tresteechip fer ceeh territery to be plased wmksr
the trusteeship aystem, ineluding any alteratiem er amené-
ment, shall be agreed wpon by the states direetly eeneermed,
1melurding the mandatery pewer in the ease of territeries
held under mandate by & Member of the Umited Natiens, and
shall be approved as provided fer in Artieles as and es.
The phrase "states directly coneerned" was of
Ameriean origin, designed to ensure that the Daited states
would have a voise in the megotiatien of the tems ef
trusteeship fer every mandated territery and every terri-
tery detached frem an enemy state as a result of the Seeemd
Werid War. The Umited states eould olaim te be a "state
direetly concerned" in every mandated territery as a
majer belligerent in the First World War, as eme of the
Prineipel Allied and Associated Powers in faver of which
Germany remeuneed all rights and titles im her eversees
possessions, and as a party to conventions with the
Mandatory Powere in respect of the "A" and "B" Mandates,
and with Japan in respect of the Japanese Nandated Islands.
The United States would have an equal slaim te be a "state
direetly coneerned" in any territory detached frem am
enemy state as a result of the Secend World Mar, as ene
of the sigmatorles of the Italian Armistiee and one of the
acc ptors of the Japanese surrender.
The Ameriean proposal coneerning the negotiatiom of
the truateeship agreements, now Artiele 79 of the Tharter,
was aseepted by the Ban Franeisce Conference sinee it
offered the only generel foraula which would save the
problem of plasing territories under the trusteesmip
systom
COMFIPRNTLAL

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
一 8 -
syetem without requiring the Gosferenee to speeify the
individual territories and to determime which states
sheuld take respensibility for placing each territery
under trusteeship.
During the San Francisco Conferenee and at the
Preparatory Commission and the meeting of the Gemeral
Assembly in London, the United States representatives
repeatedly stated, im public and in private, the erigimal
Ameriean interpretation of Artiole 79, namely, that a
mall group ef states, aoting through diplomatie channels
outside the United Nations, would determine that they are
the "states direetly eoneerned" in a spesifie territery
and weuld negotiate and sign a trusteeship agreement
fer that territory. (In fast, for purposes of Amerieam
constitutiomal proeedures it was generally thenght in the
Department of State that most of the trusteeship agree-
ments would be im the form of treaties subjeet te appreval
by the Senate, although they sould become effeotive as
exesutive agreements). The "states directly eomeerned"
would them Jointly submit their trusteeship agreement
to the General Assembly or the Becurity Council fer
approval. Any subsequent alteration or amendment of the
terms of trusteeship would similarly have to be agreed
upon by all the "states directly coneerned" before approval
by the General Assembly or the Seourity Couneil.
At the London meeting of the General Assembly the
United Btates Delegation asserted several times that it
was not appropriate for the General Assembly to attempt
to define the "states direetly coneerned" in advance
sinee the General Assembly could pass upen this issue whem
the non-strategio agreements were submitted to it fer appreval.
COEFISNTIAL
Following

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
Fellewing the Lendon meeting of the Gemeral Assembly
the Umited states Gevermment revised its 1nterpretatiem
of Artiele 79 in faver of a mere simplified preeedure.
It became inereasingly elear, as the draft agreements
fer the Afrieam Mandates transmitted by the British and
Belgian Gevernments early in the year were studied by
this Severmment, that any effort te speeify by mame the
"states direetly coneermed" in eaeh territery weuld leed
te endless contreversy and perhaps dangereus delay in
establishimg the trusteeship system. Furthermere, any
state se specified could "vete" the terms of tresteeahip
fer a territory by refusing to sign the tresteeship agree-
mont er by imsisting that it sonour in the twe-thirds
majority vete of the General Assembly.
The importanee of this extension of the "vete" inte
the trusteeship field of the United Nations ms obviously
of partieular importance with respeet to beth the
Japanese Mandated Islands and any Japanese 1slands fer
whieh this Geverament assumes responsibility as a result
of the Beeond World War, even though any strategie area
agreements for these islands would have te be approved by
the Seeurity Oounell where eaeh of the five permanent
members exeroise a vete.
While the original Ameriean interpretation of the
phrase "states direotly conoerned" in Article 79 fully
proteeted the rights and interests of the United States in
every mandated and detached territory which might be
plased under trusteeship, 1t 1pme faste placed certain
other states on the same footing as the Uaited States, vis,
the Umited Kingdom and France in the mandated territories;
the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.95)
- -
the United Xingdes, Franee, and the Seviet Uniem in the
Italian Gelemies; and the United Xingdem, Seviet Waiem,
and Gaime in the Japaaese territeries.
In aecordanee with the foregeing censideretions, the
United states Sovermment proposed a simplified precedure
te eaah of the five Mandatery Powers whieh were drafting
trusteeship agreements fer submissiem to the Gemeral
Asseably. The essence of this preposal, queted frem a
mote to the British Government dated May 7, 194s eomment-
ing en the British draft trusteeship agreememts, as as
follows:
"In transmitting these comments, the Uaited
States Govermment does so witheut referenee to the
determinatien ef the phrase "states direstly cem-
cerned". The pesition ef the United States in this
respeet remains what it has beem for the past
twenty-five years, mamely, that it has special and
speclfie rights under the Treaty ef Versailles and
as a party to eertain bilateral treaties, imeluding
treaties with the United Kingdom coneerning the
mandated territories. The United States believes
that by virtue of this position it 1s entitled te be
one of the 'states directly concerned' in all
mandated territories.
However, it is the view of this Government
that in the intorest of speeding up conolusion of
trusteeahip agreements it would be desirable to
limit the nuabe? of negotiating states to a
minimum, and in line with this prineiple it 1s
folt
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.96)
-6 -
felt that the mest desirable preeedure weuld be
that the present mandatery powers should prepese
draft terms of tresteeship and that other partieular-
1y interested pewers should be consulted in regard
to these terms before they are actually submitted
to the General Assembly fer appreval.
This precedure 1s propesed en the semditien
that the ether interested powers agree to the
prineiple ef consultatien as deseribed abeve with-
out pressing elaims te be signatories te the teme
of trusteeship fer the Afrieam territeries in
question".
This proeedure, it was believed, ceuld be legally
justified by the ambigueus language ef Artiele t9, which
dees not indieate whether the terms of trusteeskip sheuld
be "agreed upen" through formal diplematie negetiasiems
eulminating in a signed treaty eevering every detall
or through informal conversatiens resulting in comeurremse
on gemeral prinoiples. The Spanisn and Chinese texts ef
Artiole 79 sonform to the English text in using the
verb form "agreed upon"; the Freneh text says that the
terms of trusteeship shall be "l'objet d'un aecord".
The Freneh word "ascord" can mean elther a formal agreement
or an informal understanding. The Russian text, howover,
says that the terms of trusteeship shall be "defined by
agreements", a phrase which has a less flexible oonnotation.
Thie Government proposed to each of the five
Mandatory Powers, and to the Soviet Union and Chimm,
that
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.95)
-7 -
that states whieh censidered themselves te be direetly
ceaeermed in a partieular territery (exeept the respeetive
Mandatery Power) sheuld waive the exereise of their
rights as "states direetly ceneermed" wmder Artiele 79,
met only in the preliminary stage ef sonsultatiem but
alse during the diseussiens of the Gemeral Assembly
where they sheuld abide by the vete ef a twe-thirds
majority of the General Assembly.
propesed
In essenee, therefere, the United Statee/
that the "states direetly ceneermed" should met be named
1n the draft trusteeship agresmemt submitted te the
General Assembly or in the resolutien ef appreval adopted
by the General Assembly, and that states whieh eemsider
themselves to be direetly coneerned in a partieular
territory (exeept the respective Mandatory Power) sheuld
waive, at this session of the General Assembly, the
exereise of their rights as "states direetly coneerned".
This simplified prosedure was accepted by the five
Mandatory Powers, Ohina, and several other members, but
not by the Sovlet Union. Because of the inoreasing likeli-
hood of a prolonged controversy over this subject that
might lead to an impesse, the United States Delegatien at
the General Assembly, therefore, carrled the simplified
prooedure one step further by proposing on November 7,
ly46 that the Mandatory Power alone should be conaldered
to be the sole "state directly concerned" in each
mendated territory.
This polioy wes stated by Mr. Dulles
ms followe:
"It oan
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.95)
- ● -
"It can be centended that 1n the situatiems
befere us emly the Mandatery Pever is 'direetly
cencerned' within the meaning of the Qharter. It is
true that the Qharter uses the plural 'states'.
But this eannet mean that in every ease of trustee-
ship more than one state must agree as te the terms
of trusteeship. If a nation whish is sole sovereigm
over sertain colonial territery is willing te put
that territory under trusteeship, en conditiems agree-
able to twe-thirds of the General Assembly, surely
1t is entitled to do se. Artiele 77(e) speaks ef
'territories voluntarily placed under the system by
states responsible fer their admimistratien'. Glearly,
in these cases the sovereign is, aleme, the state
'direetly coneerned". Therefore, the faet that the
Charter uses the plural does not require us, in every
ease, to rind several states whose prelimimary agree-
mont must be obtained. The word 'states' obviously
includee the singular as well as the plural and the
Charter should be interpreted as though it read 'the
state or ststes direotly concerned'. Thersfore, i8
ean be powerfully argued that where the territory
proposed to be pleced under trusteeship is admimistered
by e single sovereign, its agreement is the only
mgreement reguired as s rel de to Assembly motlon.
"The nited Stetes, however, is willing to
join with others in secenting * system of equality
and not esserting  s: eeisl posltion in relation to
th
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
- 9 -
the agreemente mow befere us. Ye de met want
1ntermimable and ineonelusive diseussiem. Neither
de we want an interpretatien ef 'states direetly
ceneerned' whieh might import the veto system late the
work of the Assembly. Ascordingly, the Daited States,
without prejudiee te its legal rights and en the
assumptiem that others will de the same, is prepared,
in relatien to the trusteeship agreemeats mew befere
us, to agree to them in the ferm in whieh, after am
exehenge of viows, they are submitted by the
administering authority, recemmonded by this Cem-
mittee and aporoved by twe-thirds of the Assembly".
(U.s. Delegation te the General Assembly, Press M-
lease 63, November 6, 1946).
The purpose of the fourth clause 1n the Preemble was
to verify the fast that Japan has eeased to exereise mny
authority in the Japanese Mandated Islands and, henee, to
estahlish the fact that this muthority has been transferred
to the United States as military oseupant. Consequently,
the United States, as military ocoupant of the Japanese
Mandated Islends sent coples of its draft trusteeship
agreement to the other Members of the Security Couneil,
and to New Zemland and the Fhillopines, these being the
Membere or the United Wations which would arvear to have
speciel Interest in the islands. The reeident announoed
on November 6. 1 46 that the United Ststes would mubmit
this draft agreement to the Seourity Counoil at an early
àte.
The1
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.89)
-10 -
The last elause of the Preamble is a reeegmitiem
of the Uaited Statee of the fast that the Security
Geamsil must approve the draft trusteeship befere the
Artieles of the harter relating to trusteeship fer
strategie areas have beem eomplied with.
Nete: A separate memorandum 1s being prepared en the
legal rights of the Umited States in the Japanese
Mand ted Islands and the other eutlying Japanese
10lands.
4..,. Sorholi
aed

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTIOLB1
The Territory of the Pacifie Islands, eeasisting of
the 1alands fermerly held by Japen under mandate in ae-
serdanee with Artiele 22 of the Govenant of the Leegue
of Matiens, 1s hereby desigmated as a strategle aree
and plaeed under the trusteeskip syetem establiahed in
the Charter of the Uaited Natione. The Territery of the
Pacifie Islands 1s hereimafter referred te as the trest
territory.
The entire Territory of the Pacifie Islands 1s
designated as strategie under the previsions of Artiele es
of the Qharter in order te meet the seeurity requirememts
of the Uaited states. The 1mpertanee of these seeurity
requirements was clearly shown in the last war. It should
be noted, of course, that this agreement does mot eever
any 1slands under Japanese severeignty fer whieh the
United States may beceme responsible but relates only
to the Japanese Mandated Islands. If aay ether islands
are plassd under United States admimistratiem the type of
trusteeship will be determined at that time.
This article, as in similar artieles in other pre-
posed trusteeship agreements now under consideration,
defines the geographieal extent of the trust territory.
Thus the trust territory 1s limited to the land masses
of the islends with their territorial waters and does
not include the milllons of wquare miles of ocean lying
between the islends. (The three arohipelagos in the
truat territory include about 1,S00 1slands, lslete, and
reefs with a total land arem or about Boo squere miles
1nhab1ted by some 50,000 natives.)
CONFIDENT AL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.90)
ARTICLE 2
The Uaited states of Ameriee is desigmated as the almiado-
tering authority of the trust torritory.
COMENT
Altheugh the Uaited States hes net beem the mamdatery pever reepemsitkle
fer these islands, the Uaited States was primarily respeasible fer their
liberation, is presemtly respeasible fer their admimistratien, ed esm-
siders them essemtial to the seeurity of this eommtry and to the main-
temamce of interaatiomal peace and seeurity. Kereever, of the taree
remaining effective Prizeipal Allied and Assesiated Pewere - the Waited
States, the United Xingdom, and Framee - the Uaited states ebviensly has
the greatest geegraphie, politieal, and strategie intereste in the Pasifle.
For these reasons this Goveramest asserte that the Uaised States alene sheuld
be desigmated as the admizistering autherity of these islands. This ls is
ascordance with the draft trusteeship agreememts pending in the Gemeral
Assembly wherein a single Mamber of the Uaited Mations is desigmated as
the administering kutherity evem though these greements are for mon-
strategio reas.
DAPTI CHANGE
It is suggested that the initiml lettere of the phrase "administering
authorily" be capitaliged throushout th, ina) tewt of the trusteochip
sgreement.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.90)
ARTICLE S
The aladsistering mtherity shall have full powere of
aéministratien, legislation, and furisdietiom ever the territery
subjeet te the previsiens of this agreemest as am tategral pert of
the United states, and may apply to the trest territery, wabjeet
to axy medifieations which the admimistering watherity may esmstder
desirable, wuch of the laws of the Umited States as it may deem
appropriate te leeal conditioms and requirements.
The phrase "as an integral part" in thia article is in cemfermity
with Article lI of the Covenant of the League of Nations as well as the
terms of the "C" Mandates for Seuth West Afriea, New Gaimee, Westerm Semee,
Mauru, and the Japamese Hamdated Islamds. The first paragraph ef the
corresponding article in the Mandate granted to Japam reads as fellewe:
"The Mandatery shall have full power of amimistratiem
and legislation ever the territory sabject te the presemt
Mandate as am integral portiom of the apire of Japam, and
may apply the lawe of the Empire of Japem te the territery.
subject to such local modificatioms as ciremstamoes may
require".
The previsions of this article are subatantially similar to eor
responding prticles in the draft trusteeship agreemente pemding in the
Generel Assembly exeept that for Tangamyika, whieh omits the phrase "as
an integral pert, ete." The pertinent article of the Australian draft
trusteeship ngreement for Mew Ouinee, however, is more general emd pre-
vide: for jurisdiotiom over the territory "es if it were an integral part
of1trn)1m。
RAFTING ANGE
It i meeested th t te word "truet" be "noerted hefore "territory"
on ti mecon: line in order t conform  ith the deeien tiom inic ted im
VONFIDENTIAL MOTE
If merious questlons are relsed regerdine the disccticne ry power of
tntton to moi the tiot Tawe should be
tnted t  t such dimcretiomary power is " subject to th- provisiome of thi
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICLE 4
The administering autherity, in diseharging the
ebligations ef trustecship in the trast tesritery, aball
ast in secerdamee with the Charter of the Ualted Besieme,
and the previsiens ef this agreement, and shall, 
spesified in Artiele as(2) of the Charter, apply the
objectives of the intermatienal trusteeship system.
as set forth in Artiele 76 of the Charter, te the
people of the trust territory.
COMOORNT
This article explicitly ebliges the United states
to apply the objectives of the intermational trusteeehip
system to the people of the trust territery. Both Now
Zealand and Australia undertake to administer their pre-
pesed trust territories "in such a manner as te ashiove
... the basie objectives of the international trastee-
ship system" and in the New Zealand draft agreememt
Artiole 76 of the Charter is quoted in full.
Since the international trusteeship system is de-
signed primarily for the protection and benefit of the
inhabitants of trust territories the recognition im this
article of this Government's obligation to apply the eb-
joetives of the trusteeship system to the people of the
trust territory is of fundamentel importance. In Ar-
ticles 5, 6, 7, and  the draft agreement outlines the
spocific measures by whleh the United States proposes
to implemert those objectives.
CONFILENTIAL NOTE
Fondie trusteemhis ereamts for non-strategie
areae provide specifl all: tor (olleborstion with
the leneral Ameembly and the  st esti Sounc1l.
Such coll aborat or hma not beer epecit fed it the
egrenent submitted by the itd Stetns in vfew of
the parmmount importance ol security requirements in
strater ic mreas are in mccorcance with the exception
allowed
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.92)
allewed in Artiele as(s) of the Charter. Artiele 1s
of the draft agreement, however, resognises the re-
spemsibilities of the Gemeral Assembly and of the Tres-
teeship Ceuneil except in those areas elosed fer
seeurity reasons. It is asswmed that these elesed
areas would be as limited in extent as pessible.
C.UNINLAL

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTIOLE 6
Ia disekarging 1ts ebligatieas uader Artiele v6(a)
and Artiele , ef the marter, the adminiatering muth
ority shall easure that the trust territery shall play
1ta part, 1n aeserdanee with the Charter of the Waited
Matiens, in the maintemanee of intermatlonal pease and
seeurity. To this end the admimistering autherity shall
be entitled:
(1) to establish naval, military and air bases
and to ereet fortifieatiens in the trust territory;
(2) to station and empley armed foroes in the
territory; and
(3) te make use ef volunteer forees, fasilities
and assistamee from the trust territery in earrying
out the obligatiens towards the Seeurity Geameil
andertaken in this regard by the admimistering auth-
srity, as well as fer the leeal defense and the
maintenanee of law and order withim the trest terri-
tory.
CONENT
This article specifies the military measures which
the United States may take in the trust territory to
assist in the maintenanee of international pease and
security and the seeurity of the United States which
constitute the primary reasons for designating the trest
territory as a strategio aree.
Provisions similar to this article are contained in
the other pending draft trusteeship agreements exeept
that for New Guinea. The mueh shorter and more general
form of the Australimn draft agreement was conaidered
unsatlafmotory by the State, Wer, snd Navy Departmente.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.89)
ARTICLE 6
In dieehargins ite ebligatiene weder Arttele pe(b) of the
Charter, the administering matherity shalll
(1) fester the develepment of sueh pelitieal imstitutieas
as are suited to the trust territery and shall premete the
develepmemt of the iahabitante of the trust territery teward self-
goverament, and to this end shall give to the takabitemte of the
trust territory a pregressively inereasing share in the mémimis-
trative serviees in the territery: shall doveley their partieipatien
in lecal gevermmemt: shall give due reeogmition te the customs ef
the lakabitants in previding a aystem ef law fer the tarritery!
and shall take other apprepriate measures tevard these endss
(2) promote the ecomomic advancement and self-suffieiemay
of the iahabitants and te this end shall regulate the use of
antural resources; encourage the development ef fisheries.
agrieulture, and industries; pretest the iababitante against the
loss of their lands and reseurees; and impreve the means of
tramspertation and commmication;
(3) premete the socinl advaneement of the imhabitamts, d
to this end ahall pretect the rights and fumdmmemtal freedeme of
-ll elemente of the pepal-tion without diserimimatiom; pretest the
health of the inhabitante; control the traffie in arms and
aumitiom, epiwm and other dangerous druge, and aleehel and ether
spiritous beverages; and institute such other regalntiems as may be
mesessary to protent the inhebitents against segial abases; d
(4) premote the eincational ndvoncement of the imhebitants,
and to this end shall take steps toward the establishmemt of a
gemeral system of elementary eduention; facilitate the vocatiomal
and oultural advancement of the populatiom; and shall emeourage
qualified students to pursue higher edueation, ineluding traiming
on the professional level.
COMALNT
hese provisionms olaborate the goneral objectives of Artiele 76(b)
and c natitut- a conmidorable adwance over the terme of the original
mandatss snr. in many reepects over the rerme cf the other pending truntee-
shlp mrenment.
Tre other draft mgreoment odine in the Generel gsembly
omit, for instance. elaboration on mennomic and mociel provisfone exce t
11
 gien nd New cemland drafts which contain comperable rovielons
aloei advancoment.
 ntnt tnd on
stratesic ru-t terrisorlee, with the excm tirn cf Ruande-Urwndi. this
agres en efer to the devulopment of the people of the territory ae being
direoted
ONEIDERTIAL

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.89)
directed speeifieally toumrés "self-goverament" rether them "self-goverememe
or independemse" incerporated in Artiole 76(b) of the Charter. This aarmé
prier juigment of the ultimate status of the trast territery is festifled 
Ite strategic impertace to the United States, b its aparee. ghly
seattered population, by its relatively wmderdeveleped, indigemome esatsal
governnental organisation, and by ite leck of eeemomic reseureee.
DRAFTING CHANUE
It is suggested that, for the sake of unifarmity. a eamme be laserted
after "inhabitaate" in the second lime of paragraph (2).

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTICLE 7
La diseharging its ebligatlens under Artiele ve(e),
of the Charter, the administering autherity, subjest
emly te the requirements ef publle erder amd seewrity.
shall guaramtee te the inkabitants ef the trast serrl-
tery freedem of speeeh, ef the press, and ef assembly:
freedem of senseienee, of wership, and ef religieus
tesehing; and freedom of migration and movement.
COMMENT
There were no comparable guarantees of freedom ef
speeeh, of the press, of assembly, and of migratien
and mevement in the mandate agreements. The present
article gees further than similar artieles in the
draft agreements for Western Samoe and the Arriean "m"
mandates in alse previding for "freedom ef migratiem
and movement". The provision that these freedome are
subject net only to the requirements of publie
order, as in the other draft trusteeship agreements,
but also sesurity 1s necessary in view ef the fest
that the trust territery is a strategic area.
The right of petition, (except fer the inhabi-
tants of areas closed for seeurity reasons), which
in other draft trusteeship agreements is included in
comparable articles, is provided for in Artiole 13
of the agreement submitted by the United States.
DRAFTING CHANGE
The coama follow
"e" the fist line of
cnls artielo snould be smovod.
CONFI.ENTLAL

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICLE 8, paragraph 1
1. In disaharging its obligatieas umder Artiele
76(d) er the Charter, as derined by Artiele s3(z) ef
the Charter, the administering autkerity, subjeet te
the requirements ef security, and the ebligatlem to
premete the advaneement or the inkabitants, shall
ascerd to matiomals of eash Member of the Uaited Matiems
and to cempanies and assosiatiens erganised in cemfermity
with the laws of swek Member, treatment in the trust
territery mo less faverable than that acserded therein
to mationals, ecmpanies and asseciatiens ef any ether
United Natien, exeept the administering awtherity.
COMOUNT
The intent ef this paragraph is to easure mest-
favored-mation treatment in the trust territery fer all
other Members ef the United Nations. This pesitiem is
in accord with established United States peliey regarding
non-diseriminatory trade and eeonemie practiees and merely
extends this leng-established principle te imelude the
trust territery. It is considered a basie prerequisite
fer ensuring the military protection of this strategle
area. In addition, the sparsemess of populatiem and the
lack of indigenous resourees are factors whiek should
make unimportant for other Members of the United Matioms
and even undesirable from the inhabitants point of view
provisions in the agreement for unrestrieted social.
economic, and commeroial exploitation. The possibility
of netional treatment, subjeot to requirements of seeurity
was cons idered, but it was conoluded that this formula
could not be praotieally or equitably epplied and that
adequate proteotion of seaurity interests could not be
essured. Conmequently, it was agreed to dopt most-
favored-nation treetment.
It should be noted that the requirements of most-
favored-netion treetment does not conflict with any provision
of tho
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.96)
of the Charter staee the Charter itselr dees met previde
other Mambers ef the United Matiens speeial rights in a
strategie area. Artiele S3(2) specifieally imdieates
that "the basic objeetives set ferthin Artiele 76 shall
be applieable to the peonle of each strategie aree."
Underlining inserted.7 It canmet be elaimed that
Artiele 76(a), whieh refers te the ensuring of "equal
treatment in sesial, esememie, and commereial matters
for all Members of the United Matiens and their natiemals"
as an objestive of the trusteeakip system, mesessitates
national treatment as eppesed to mest-favored-matien treat-
ment. This artiele senserns the gevernments and peeples
of other Members of the United Natiens, whereas ascerding
to Artiele s3(2) the objestives of the trusteeship system
as set ferth in Artiele 76 are applieable te the peeple
of each strategle area. It should be meted that this
referense te the people ef the area as oppesed to the area
as a whole is ene of the distinetive features of a strategie
area trusteeship. In the same conneetion, it should also
be noted that the terme of the Mandate for the Paeifio
Islands made at Geneva in December l920 did not require
the mandatory to guarantee even most-favored-nation treat-
ment。
This paragraph is of vital importance to the United
States ir it is to be responsible for edministering these
islands as e strategio area both "to further international
pesoe and seeurity" under rtiole 76(a) and to ensure that
the trust territory itself "shall play its part" towards
these ends under Article 84.
DRAFTING CHANGE
The following drafting changes are suggeeted:
()
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.92)
(a) the missien ef the ee ater the phrase
"subject te the requirements ef seeurity" and
(b) she sabstitutien of "Member ef the Waited
Natiens" for the words "Uaited Natiem" -- the
5th and 6th words from the and of the paragraph.
CONFIDNNTLAL

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICLE 8, paragraph 2
2. The administering autherity shall ensure equal
treatment to the Members of the Uaited Matiens and their
matiemals in the administration of justiee.
OOMOST
Although, for the reasons indieated in the "Cemmemt"
under paragraph 1 of this Artiole, the provision of
Artiele 76(d) of the Charter regarding equal treatment
in the administration of justiee weuld not appear to
be mandatory in its applieation te strategie areas, it
is obviously consomant with basie prineiples or this
Government.
DRAFTING CHANGE
The following drafting ehange is suggested:
"The administering authority shall ensure
qual treatment to the fer the natienale of 
Members of the United Nations mnd thoir mathemaks
in the administration of justiee".
This would amend paragraph 2 to conform more elosely with
the aetual wording of rtiole 76(d) of the Charter and
with accepted international practices.
CONF DUANT LAL

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTIOLE 8, paragraph 3
3. Nothins in this Artiele shall be se semstrued
as to accord traffie rights to airerart flying imte
and out of the trust territory. Suek rigkts sball be
subject te agreement between the administering autherity
und the state whese matiemality swsh airerart pessesses.
COOOT
This paragraph was inserted in the draft trusteeship
agreement for the Japanese Mandated Islands at a time
when it was originally thought that a similar provision
should be suggested by this Governmemt for inelusion in
ell trusteeship agreements. The purpese of the provisien
was to make it clear that sommersial trafrie, as distimet
from simply air transit rights, were covered by speeirie
bilateral agreements. Air trarrie rights whish coneern
the picking up and diseharge of passengers, mail, and
eargo, on the other hand, are covered by the Chieage
Convention on Civil Aviation. Although certain of the
mandatory powers with whose experts thin clause was dis-
oussed did not, under these sireumstances, believe it was
a necessary provision, they appeared willing to accept it.
Subsequently, in oonneetion with all other pending draft
trusteeship agreements this Government decided not te pro-
pose suoh e paragreph. The situation regarding commereial
sir trafric rights would romain ths same for all govermmemts
concerned snd wculd be subject to bilateral agreement and not
to most-fewored-netion treatment set forth in this trustee-
ahip ugreement. -peciric bilaterel greements regerding
air treffic rights would take prscedence over any generalized
multilaterel arrengements incidental to  document drarted
ror another purposs.
CONYIDENTLL

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTICLE 8, paragraph 4
4. The administering muthority may megetiate and
cenelude commereial and other treatles and agreemeats
with Members of the United Nations and other mtates.
desigmed te attain for the iababitants of the trust
territery treatment by the Members ef the Umited Matiems
and other states no less faverable than that granted by
them to the natiomals of other states. The Seeurity
Counsil may recemmend, or invite other ergans ef the
United Nations to sonsider and recommend, what rights
the imhabitants of the trust territery should aequire
in comsideration of the rights obtained by Members of
the United Nutions in the trust territory.
COMMOSE
This paragraph provides that the United States
may negotiate and conolude appropriate intermatiemal
agreements whien will attain for the imhabitamts of the
trust territory most-favered-natien treatment by Members
of the Umited Nations. In addition the paragraph prevides
that the Seourity Couneil or, at its lnvitatiem, ether
organs of the United Nations may reeommend what ether
rights the inkabitants of the trust territery should
aequire in consideration of the rights obtaimed by Mambers
of the United Nations in the trust territory.
Thispovernment, in preliminary diseussions regarding
other draft trusteeship agreements pending in the General
Assembly, socepted the proposal suggested by the Mandatories
conoerned that the enjoyment or special rights in the trust
territory by Members of the United Nations should be
automaticelly contingent upon the latter's conferring
similer rights reoiprooally on the inhabitants of the
trust territory conoerned.
In view or the fact, however.
that this agreement applies to a strategio area and that
therefore the rights or other Membere or the United Natioms
in the trust territory ere those of a most-favored-nation
ohareoter,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.94)
character, the automatieally recipreeal previsiem susgested
for nen-strategie aree trusteeship agreemeats dees net
seem to be necessary in order te presest the interests
of the inhabitants of the trust territery.
CONYIDENTLAL

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTICLE 9
The administering autherity shall be entitled te
seastisute the sruet territery late a custems, fiseal,
teries under United states jurisdistiem and te establim
cemmen serviees between susk territeries and the trust
territery where sush measures are met ineensistent with
the basie objeetives of the Imtermatiemal Trusteeship
System and with the terms of this agreememt.
COT
This artiele should be read in senmeetien with
Artisle 3 of the draft agreement whieh prevides in part
that the administering autherity shall have full pewers
of administration over the territory as an integral art
of the United States. Both Artieles 3 and 9, it should
be noted, are made subjest to the terms of this agreemems.
The substanee of Artiele 9 permits custome, fiseal, er
administrative wmion or federation, with other territeries
under United States jurisdieatiom. It is practieally
identieal with a similar provision in the British, Fremeh,
Belglan, and New Zealand draft agreements. Provision
for sueh union or federation is obviously desirable to
ensure the efrioient administration of such island areas
as Saipan whioh will face many problems common to the
nearby island or Guam. However, sueh a provision does
not imply sovereigmty over the trust territory.
CONFILENTLAL

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.96)
ART ICLE 10
The administering autherity, meting wnder
the previsiens ef Artiele 3 ef this agreememt,
may escept membership in any regiemal advisery
cemmissien, regienal axtherity, er teskmieal ep-
ganisatien, er ether velumtary assesiatiem ef
states, may seeperate with spesialised inter-
matienal bedies, publie er private, and may em-
gage in ether forms of intermatiemal seeperatiem.
COMMEMT: This article, which is permissive but
net mamdatery, is particularly apprepriate fer the
trust territery and, in view of the limited esenemy
and undeveloped status of the native inhabitams,
offers an eppertunity fer them te bemefit frem as-
seciatien with other peoples whe faee similar preb-
lems. Sueh association would enable the peeple to
develep a reglonal eeonomy, to take advantage ef tesh-
mieal studies on semmon preblems, and to participate
effectively in furthering their ewn develepment.
The advantages ef regional organisatien have been ef-
feetively demonstrated by the Caribbean Cemmissiem
while plans are already underway to establisk a Re-
gional Commission for dependent territories in the
South Paaifie.
All of the mandatory powers, with the exeeption
of Australie, have Included a similar article in the
trusteeship agreements for their mandated territories.
No comparable provision was included in the terms of
the mandate for these Pacific islanis under whioh
they were administered by Jepan.
CONFILENTIAL

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTIOLB 11
1. The admiaistering autherity shall take the
necessary steps to provide the status ef sitisenship
of the trust territory for the inhabitants of the trust
territory.
2. The admiaistering authority shall afferd dip-
lomatio and sonsukar proteetion to imhabitants of the
trust territory when outside the territorial limits of
the trust territory or of the territory of the admimistering
authority.
COMMUONT
The status of oitizenship will tend to create a
common bond amongst peoples who otherwise might feel no
unity and consequently would have difrieulty in working
toward the objectives of the trusteeship system as set
forth in Artiele 76 of the Charter.
In regard to the native inhabitants of mandated terri-
tories the Permanent Mandates Commission, in its seeomd
session, drew up a recommendation stating that the mative
inhabitants of B and C mandated territories were met
nationals of the mandatory though they might be maturalised
individually. They were to be regarded as natiomals of the
territory itself, and it was desirahle that they be desig-
nated by some form of deseriptive title whiah would speeify
their status under the mandate. After an extenaive debate
In the Council of the League, in .pril, 1923, this recom-
mendation wes adopted but with special permission to South
frice to naturalize the Germans in South West  frioa en
masse
giving individuels an option to refuse. The Union
and German Governments entered into an agreement in London
in 1923 under whioh the Union of South .frics accepted the
ermans of south eet africa es  part of the Union people,
with the same privileges and responsibilities as the other
citizens.
8  result of this agreemont 3.228 Germans
became
CONFIDENTLL

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.96)
besame maturalized Union subjeets. In 1942 the Umiem
Goverament, by Aet of Parliament denaturalised the Ger-
mans who sinee l924 had been mutomatieally maturalised
as Union natives but who continued to elaim German
eitizonship.
When the subeommittee of the Permamemt Mandates Com-
mission was examining the question of the status of mam-
dated peoples prior to the Commission's reeemmemdatiem
on the subjeot M. Matsuda of Japan expressed to the sub-
committee his thought that it would be "eontrary to the
spirit of Artiele 22 of the Covenant to assimilate the
native imhabitants of mandated territory to the subjests
of the mandatory Power. On the other hand, having in
mind the interests of these peoples, they shoule be as-
corded every advantage granted to subjeets of the mamdatery
Power."
Diplomatie and consular protection of iahabitants of
the trust territory when outside the territorial limits of
the trust territory or of the territory of the admimistering
authority serves not only to provide the inhabitants a
necessery service w. ich otherwise would be unavailable,
but also to establish the rights of the inhabitants under
international law.
it is noteworthy thet the provisions of this artiols are
not ineludeo in the draft trust-eship ugreements for othor
Puciric territorie or for the  frican territories, nome
of whion are strategic in chareoter. Neither were such
previslons ineluoed in the terme of the mandate under whioh
the tslands were administered by Japan.
ONF II ENT LL

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTICLE 12
The administering antherity shall emest
such leglslatiem as may be mesessary te plese
the previsiens ef this agreememt im effest in
the trust territery.
COmT: This artiele censtitutes am inter-
matienal semmitment wpen the part ef the United
States to implement by legislation the previsiems ef
the trusteeship agreement. It therefore guarantees
that the meeds of the inhabitants will reseive eensid-
eratien by the Cengress.
Ne sush guarantee has been ineluded in the draft
agreements submitted by the United Kingdem, Pranse,
Belgium, Australia and New Zealand.
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTICLB 13
The provisions of Artieles 87 and 8s of the Gharter
shall be applieable to the trust territery, previded that
the administering autherity may determime tae extent ef
their applieabillty to any areas whieh may frem time to
time be speciried by it as closed for sesurity reasems.
COMALNT
Artiole s3(3) of the Charter provides that the
Security Counoil shall utilize the Trusteemhip Couneil in
conneetion with reports, petitions, periodio visits, and
questionnaires "relating to political, ecomomie, sosial,
and edueational matters in the strategio areas". These
funotions are provided for in Artioles 87 and 88 of the
Charter. Artiele 13 of this draft agreement is, therefore,
necessary in order to implement the above Charter provisien
in the proposed trust territory.
In this respect the draft trusteeship agreement fer
the Japanese Mandated Islands is not essentially dirferent
from pending draft trusteeship agreements for other prepesed
trust territories. Artiole 88 or the Charter, by restrieting
the Trusteeship Counoil's questionnaire to "politieal, eeo-
nomic, soolal, and edueational" problems, elearly implies
that the Trusteeship Counoil will not concern itself with
purely military problems in any trust territory whether
strategic or non-strategic. rticle 83(3) simply reiterates
the prinoiple that the Trusteeship Council in strategie areas
shall similerly porform functions "relating to politioal.
economio, social, nd educational matters".
rtlole i, or this areft egreement, however, would
permit the administering suthority to determine the extent
o: the Trusteeship Council's functions in those arens
0t. he
ONFIDANT IAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.96)
of the trust territery which might frem time te time be
specified as "elosed fer seeurity purpeses". Sueh an e-
ception 1s permitted under Artiele s3(3) of the Gharter
whieh wisely provides that the fumetiems of the Trusteeship
Council in strategio areas shall be "subjeet to the pre-
visiens of the trusteeship agreements nd without meli
to sccurity consideratieng". This is a logieal provisiem
sinee, without it, there would be little essential differemee
between a strategio and a non-strategie area. The dis-
tinetion was reeognised when the Charter was being dremm
up and constitutes a basio primeiple of Chapter XI a
the Charter itself.
It should be noted, however, that rtiele 13 implies
in its phrase "extent of applicability" that evem in "elesed"
areas the administering authority need not preelude the
Trusteeship Counoil from carrying out eertain of its fumetiems.
For instanes it is possible that even in sweh areas the
Trusteeship Council might well be authorized te request and
oonsider reports submitted by the administering autherity,
to uccept petitions end examine them in consultation with
the administering authority, end otherwise to koep itselr
informed or the political, economic, social, and odueational
development of the inhabitants of these "olosed" areas. In
view of the goography or the trust territory, whieh is com-
posed of many very small islands rather than of a single
land mass, purely seourity easons might, however, provent
free ontry for inspection purposes to any part of one of
these wmall island: if it were in the "closed" ares.
Just
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.94)
Just what areas will frem time te time be "elesed
for seeurity reasoas" will depend upen eurremt ixtermetiemal
conditieas and censeqment requiraments for the adequate
mintenanee of the island's seeurity. It is this strategie
character of the propesed trust territory, imdeed, whien
requires that the funetions of the Trusteeamip Cowmeil
in "elesed" areas may be to some extent restristed.
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTIOLE 14
The administering autherity wndertakes te
apply in the trast territery the previsiems ef
any intermational cenventiens end resemende-
tiens whieh may be appropriate te the partiew-
lar eireumstamees of the trast territery and
whieh weuld be sendueive te the sehievememt ef
the basie objestives of Artiele é ef this agree-
mont.
COMKNT: The prevision seems te be undemiably
desirable in the interests of the inhabitamts sinee it
will seoure for the inhabitants of the territery the
benefits of all appropriate international eonventions
and recommendations, inoluding agreements whioh al-
ready exist as well as those whieh may be adepted in
the future by the United Wations and its specialised
ageneies. Camparable artioles, at the suggestion ef
the United States, have been ineluded in all of the
draft agreements submitted by the mandatery pewers.
This article hewever, is breader than the sem-
parable articles in the Australian, New Zealand, and
Freneh draft agreements. Article 6 of the agreement
for New Guinea limlts the application of international
agreements and recommendations to those which "are
in the epinion of the mdministering authority sulted
to the needs and conditions of the territory..."
The New Zealand Article XIII in the agreement for Wes-
tern Samoa is narrower than the United States' in two
respects: (1) existing conventions end recommonda-
tions are not inoluded in ite scope: and (2) the phrase
"in the opinion or the administerine authority" is
included just as in the Australian craft. The French
Article 6 limils the application to "internetional
aereements and conventions which are at present in
force there..." (1.e. in the territory).
No provialon similar to those in this article
were included in the mandate granted to Japan.
CONFILENTIAL

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.91)
ARMPICLE 1S
The terme of the present agreement shall met be altered.
amended er terainated vitheut the cemsest of the atministering
authority.
The previsions of this article are sabstamtially similar te comparable
previsiens in the agreemente submitted by the United Kingdem, Prense,
Belgiwm, and New Zealmnd fer territeries which they Latend te plase mder
trastoeship.
Artiele 79 of the Charter prevides that "the terms of tresteeship ....
imeluding any alteratien er amemdmemt, shall be agreed upem by the states
directly coneermed, including the mandatory pever..." In as mmsh as each
mandatery pever is presmmably te be appointed as administering amtherity
wader the trusteeship agreement whieh it is submitting fer appreval.
reference to alteratiem or amemdment of the terms of trusteeship fer a
mandated territory in seserdamse vith Artiele 9 is comparable, in the
ease of a mandatory pover, te the present previsiom that as adminietering
autherity the United States mmst censent to the alteratiom, amemdment er
termination of the terms of trusteeahip for the Pacific islands.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.86)
AMIL16
The presemt agreement shall come inte feree when
appreved by the Seourity Gommeil of the United Natiems and
by the Geverament of the United States after due eem-
stitetiemal preeese.
ODT
This artiele merely defines the steps mesessary fer the agreememt
te come into feree wnder the Charter of the Umited Matioms. and wmder
the Constitutien of the Umited States. Artiele 83 of the Charter of
the United Natioms prevides that the terms of tresteeship agreememts re-
lating te strategie areas west be approved by the Sesurity Cemmeil.
Censideratiom is being givam in the Departmemt of State to the form in
COHSIDENTIAL

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.95)
oe/Rale
STANDARD FORM NO. 64
A-H - Mr. Gross
Le - Mr. Howard
SPA - Mr. Hiss
1S - Mr. Blaisdell
TO
JA
- Mr. Borton
- Mr. BancroftATE: 12/2/46
( Capt. Dennison
FROM
DA - Mr. Green
( Col. Giffen
SUBJECT:
Draft of Froposed Stete ent
Attecned hereto is & new draft of the proposed
statement oy ir. Johnson, revised in accordance with
the discussion at the matting last Friday. As Mr.
Cohen hes again suggested that this statement can be
made on behalf of the Secretary of State I have re-
cast the introduction and conclusion accordingly.
Enclosure:
As stated bove.
DASJR:10

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.95)
Fifth Draft
RESTRICTED
SUBMISSION TO THE SECURITY COUNCIL OF THE
UNITED STATES DRAFT TRUSTEESHIP AGREEMENT
FOR THE
JAPANESE MANDATED ISLANDS
Dreft Statement by Mr. Herachel Johnoon
I have the honor to transmit to the Security Counoil
the following meesage from the Secretary of State of
the United States of America:
"By submitting to the Security Council, for 1ts ap-
proval, a dreft trusteeship agreement for the Japanes
Mandated Islands, the United States reaffirms its con-
viction thet the non-self-governing territories of the
world should be administered in the spirit of trustoe-
shin and that these terrltorles and their inhabitants
should make their rientful contribution to the peace and
prosnerity of mankind.
President Wilsor wes one of the chief architects
of the mandates system in the League of Natione Covenant,
whion proclaimed the rineinle that the well-being
and development of the  eon es af the undated terri-
ries are "a secred tr"
vilizeton". More recently,
Chore 111
ined
e. Churcnill
estatlishment

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
of an international trusteeship system. Subsequently,
the Delegations of the United States at the San Francisoo
Conference and at the meetings of the Preparatory Com-
mission and the General Assembly have given ample
testimony, if any were needed, of the profound and con-
tinuing concern of this Government for the well-being of
the several hundreds of millions of peoples who inhabit
non-self-governlng territories.
In preparing this draft trusteeship agreement, the
Government of the United States gave long and oareful
study not only to the Charter as a whole and to its
specific provisions for strategic needs in special areas,
but also to the draft agreements for non-strategic area
recently submitted to the General Assembly by five of
the mandatory powers. Consequently, this draft trustee-
ship agreement is viewed by the Government of the United
States as conforming, in subatance and in form, with
the Charter of the United Netions. It contains the terms
upon which, 1f approved by the Security Council, the
Untted States 1s prerared to administer the Jananese
Mandated Islands as a trust territory.
In aftirmation of n'storie Anertcan  olicy and in
rulril haent or the  povioto or the  arter the President
ieee under
ed iglands
1A8SS
res unsitilities

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.92)
- 3 -
responsibilities as a result of the second World
War. In so far as the Japanese Mandated Islands
are concerned, this Government 1s tranemitting for
information to the other members of the Seourity
Council (Australia, Brazil, China, Egypt, Franoe,
Mexico, the Netherlande, Poland, the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom)
and to New Zealand and the Philinnines a draft of a
strategic area trusteeship agreement which sets forth
the terme upon which this Government 1s nrepared to
place those 1slands under trusteeship. At an early
date we plan to submit this draft agreement formally
to the Security Council for its approval".
This announcement was made in the belief that the
Government of the United Ststes srould take the initiative
in prenaring terme of trusteeship for the Japanese Mandated
Islande. The mandatory power, Jenan, has ceased to exercise
any authorlty in those 1slands as a result of the second
World War; its authority is now teins exerelsed by the
United States as military occurant. Accordingly, in the
absence of en effective mandatory power, the United States
uas soueht the t fil iment ot the re rements of Article 79
of the charter, irst, uy t smitie es of a draft
18land8
1 vlew
eei
rme!y sunmitting
1t5

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.90)
- 4 -
It 1s the earnest hope of the United States
Government that the approval of this draft agreement
will not be delayed by any prolonged attempt to spooify
the "states directly concerned" in conformity with
Article 79 of the Charter. Which Membere of the United
Nations are entitled to be "states directly conoorned"
in this mandated territory or in any of the mandated
territories for which draft trusteeship agreements are
being considered in the General Assembly 1s a matter
which leads to endless speoulation. It 1e the opinion
of the United States Government that all states whioh
believe that they are entitled to be "states directly
concerned", except the reepective mandatory powers, should
waive, for the present, the exercise of the rights
co ferred on the "states directly concerned" by Article 79.
As the United States Renresentative to the Security
Council will have an opnortunity on later oocasions to
explain the United Sta'es draft trusteeship agreement in
detail, I deelre at thls time merely to emphasize that
the draft agreement amply orovidee for the attainment of
the four baslc ocjectives of the trus eesnin system set
forth in Article 7e of the Charter.
These besic ob-
Jectives mey te suaarized as tollows:
t.o
further inter-
:attonal :eace and securtts:  roa te the political.
eacemente of te
roerees: ve tevelo me:  t werde
 vernment de ede: or
res er tor
ea treaar t e cta, e comereal met ers
01:18100818.
Ir. talrii lment

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.92)
-5-
In fulfillment of the firet objective - the furthor
ance of international peace and security - the United
States proposes, 1n accordance with Article 82 of the
Charter, that the trust territory be designated a
strateg1c area. This territory contains about 848 square
miles of land mass and about 48,000 native 1nhabitants.
Its 1ndigenous resources are negligible. However, the
strategic nature of the area has long been recognized.
The exnenditure of lives, time, and treasure required to
seize this area from the Jananese ls a measure of its
inherent strategic importance. It 1s
the conviotion
of the American people that this area will never again
be used as a srringboard for aggression against the
United States and other Members of the United Nations.
In conformity with the rovislone of the Charter for
strategic areas, the trust territory will contain bases.
Many atolls in the territory have potential value as base
sltes or as anchorages out no such sites, however, will
be developed and main.teined at resent.
No other Governnert need feel any e renension over
the desienation of tie trust territory as straetegic,
for the Unitec sises,
e all oner Members of the
eo,asealy derteser ne it shall
reretrea
the
oted der Arel
he
111
9y
trus'eesnto Re reement
by the

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.92)
-6-
by the Security Council, 1f other Members of the United
Nations conclude special agreements under Artiole 43
of the Charter, the United States, in concluding suoh a
special agreement or agreements, will give the same con-
sideration to the forces and fscilities in this trust
territory as to those of territories under its sovereignty.
The remaining three objectives of the trusteeship
system are amplified in considerable detail by the
draft agreement. In particular, provislons are inoluded
which effectively guarantee the politloal, economic,
social, and educational advancement of the inhabitants
of the trust territory.
The fulfillment of these basic objectives of the
trusteeship system will depend, 1n this trust terri-
tory as in all others, Loth upon the good faith of the
administering authority and upon effective supervision by
the United Nations.
The Charter orovides for such super-
vision over strategic arens in only the most general terme.
The United States draft agreement . oes beyond the legal
requiremente of the Charter by providing that Articles 87
and 88 - relating to renorts, : etitions, visits, and
questionnaires cor cerinr non-strategie areas - shall
De anr icatleon
thougr i is
desL
8re88
PE8POLS
cust terri-
rer onsitilitles
for the

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.94)
- 7-
for the maintenance of international peace and security,
the authority necessary to safeguard the installations
established for that purcose. I assure you that the
United States will not exerclse this authority to close
areas for security purposes in any irresnonsible manner.
It should be pointed out, moreover, that the closing
of certain areas for security nurooses relates only to
the reports, netitions, visits, and questionnaires
provided for in the trusteeship system. When international
agreement 1s reached with resnect to reports, inspeotions,
and similar functions in the fiela of disarmament, atomie
energy, or other non-trusteeship mattere, the provisions
of the draft agreement relating to closed areas will not
prejudice the application of such agreemente to the entire
trust terrltory in the same meneer as to territories under
the sovereignty of the United States.
I commend, therefore, for your consideration and
au roval the United Ste es draft trusteeship agree-
ment for the Jepenese Mendated Islends. In thie draft
trusteeshir agreement the nited ste'es Government re-
affirms 1ts nistoric rolleleg resnp ins non-selr-povern-
ey rt Bree
rierce  the
et States
reeuent
1o a roved

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
by the Security Council, the administration of those
1slands by the United States will contribute to the
fullest possible extent both to the maintenanoe of inter
natlonal neace and security and to the well-being and
advancement of the inhabitants of the 1slands.
James F. Byrnes"
I shall, of course, be glad to explain the draft
agreement in more detail and shall submit to the Council
a commentary which interprets each of its articles. I
suggest that detalled consideration might most conveniently
be undertaken by the Council in the informal atmosphere
of committee deliberations. Accorcingly, I move that
when the members of the Council have concluded any general
statements they desire to make, the draft trueteeship
agreement be referred to a comm!ttee of the whole for
consideration and for a renort thereon to the Council.
Le

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.94)
sect ship fo de.
A-H - Mr. Gross
IS - Mr. Banoroft
TO
SPA - Mr. H1ss
JA - Mr. Borton
DATE:November 27, 1946
I8 - Mr. Bla1sdell
LE * Mr. Howard
FROM
DA - Mr. Green
Capt. Dennieon
5/R
Col. Giffin
SUBJECT:
The attached draft statement has been prepared
for discusslon at the meeting of the working group
scheduled for Friday. This draft, which 1s a revision
of the draft sent you on Monday, contgins everal
additional 1deas which were received from Mr. Herschel
Johnson and Mr. Gerig in New York. I suggest, there-
fore, that you dieregard the previous draft.
8
6
f
0
2
46
Attachment:
As above descrited.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.92)
Fourth Draft
RESTRICTED
SUBMISSION TO THE SECURITY COUNCIL OF THE
UNITED STATES DRAFT TRUSTEESHIP AGREEMENT
FOR THE
JAPANESE MANDATED ISLANDS
Draft Statement by Mr. Herechol Johnson
By submitting to the Security Council, for it ap-
proval, a draft trusteeship agreement for the Japanese
Mandated Islands, the United States reafrirms 1t
traditional conviction that the non-self-governing torri-
tories of the world should be administered in the spirit
of trusteeship and that these territories and their
inhabitants should make their rightful contribution to
the peace and prosperity of mankind.
It was President Wilson who, twenty-eight years ago,
declered: "Peoples and provinces are not to be bartered
一
about from sovereignty to sovereignty as if they wore
mere chattels and pawne in a game ..." President Wilson
was one of the chief arenitecte of the mandates system in
the Lesgue of Natlone Covenant, which proolaimed the
principle that the well-being and development of the
eorles of the manda'ed territories are "e sacred trust of
0128110n"
re ey, wes reee sevelt erd
izement
tmen Comrernce, Fresident
nrshe? Stelin and
 Ser Frar c see Canference
ovie Petetllshnerof an hteratlona
Lrusteeanip

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.94)
- 2 -
trusteeship system. Subsequently, the Delegations of
the United States at the San Francisco Conferenoe and
at the meetings of the Preparatory Commisslon and the
General Assembly have given ample testimony, if any wa
needed, of the profound and continuing concern of my
Government for the well-being of the several hundreds of
milllons of reoples who inhabit non-self-governing
territorles.
In preparing this dreft trusteeship agreement, my
Government gave long and careful study not only to the
Charter as a whole and to its apecific provisions for
stretegic needs in special areas, but also to the draft
agreements for non-strategic areas recently submitted to
the General Assembly by five of the mandatory powers.
Conseouently, this araft trusteeship agreement 1s viewed
by my Government as conforming, in substance and in form,
with the Charter of the nited Nations. It contains the
terme upon whichif apnroved by the sy il
the United States 1s nrenared to administer the Japanese
Mandated Ialands, The United states would not ask the
Council to an rove th's draft trueteeship epreement if it
ald pot belleve that the arret ent wes fully in accord
witthe:rovir
arter and with
161ends and
Freeident
"The Teited

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
"The United States is prepared to place under
trusteeship, with the United States as the ad-
ministering authority, the Japanese Mandated Islands
and any Japanese islands for which 1t assumes
responsibilities as a result of the second World
War. In so far as the Japanese Mandated Ialand
are concerned, this Government 1s tranemitting for
information to the other members of the Security
Council (Australia, Brazil, China, Egypt, France,
Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom)
and to New Zealand and the Philippines a draft of a
strategic area trueteeship agreement which sets forth
the terms upon which this Government is prepared to
place those 1slands under truateeship. At an early
date we plan to submit this draft agreement formally
to the Security Council for 1ts approval".
This announcement was made in the belief that the
Government of the United States should take the initiative
in preparing terms of trusteeship for the Japanese Mandated
Ialande. The mandatory cower, Jeran, has ceased to exercise
any eutrority  hose talends an a result or the second
world Wer: its autnorlty is w t
exerelsed by the
1.ite
sesr
the
f Artlele 79
Sharte.
e tes of a jraft
da ed 1elends
view
of my

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.91)
-4-
of my Government, have epecial interests in these islands,
and, now, by formally submitting the draft agreement to
the Security Council for its approval.
It 1s the earnest hope of my Government that the
approval of this draft agreement will not be delayed by
any prolonged attempt to specify the "states direotly con-
cerned" in conformity with Article 79 of the Charter.
Which Members of the United Nations are entitled to be
"states directly concerned" in thia mandated territory or
1n any of the mandated territories for which draft trustoe-
ship agreements are being considered in the General Assembly
18 a matter which leads to endless speculation. It 1s
the opinion of my Government that all states which bellove
that they are entitled to be "states directly concerned",
except the respective mandatory powers, should waive,
for the present, the exercise of the rights conferred on
the "states directly concerned" by Article 79. In the
present case discussion of the question would aprear to
be perticularly fruitless since practically all of those
states with spectal interests in the Pacific are members
of the Security Council and sinee ne decleton of the
Couneil to ary rove this araft trueteeshin ngreement must
be made ty an affirmetive vote  seven pembere, ncluding
nemters.
My
rtrus'eeshin
unnimou u ,not nly
eCoune but neo or
B1X emter8.
overnment Is wih,
ourse,
tr Security
Council,

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.92)
- 5 -
Council, and by New Zealand and the Republic of the
Philippines, for revision of these terme.
As I shall have an opportunity on later occasions to
explain the United States draft trusteeship agreement in
detall I shall not attempt to do more today than to indioato
briefly the waya in which the draft agreement provides
for the attainment of the four basic objectives of the
truateeship system set forth in Article 76 of the Charter.
These basic objeotives may be summarized as follows:
to further international peace and security; to promote
the political, economic, social, and educational advanoe-
ments of the inhabitants; to encourage respect for human
rights and for fundamental freedome; and to eneure equal
treatment in social, economic, and commercial matters
for all Members of the United Natlons and their nationals.
In fulfillment of the first objective - the furtherance
of international neace and security - it 1s proposed, in
accordance with Article 82 of the Charter, that all of
the trust territory be designated a strategic area.
This
designation is proposed because the Jananese Mandated
Islende contaln only d4o aquere miles of land area, only
48,P7 native inhatitert8, an very ) ited economic
resources, nnd tecsuse te Anere
et tesire that
theee srs
 s: 11board for
LLerusterrtory
re1d1
advances

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.88)
-6-
advances in the fields of atomio energy, aviation, and
other weapons have made it impossible to determine 1m-
mediately the nature and location of bases 1n any territory.
No other Government need feel any apprehension over the
designation of this trust terrltory as strategio, for the
United States, like all other Members of the United
Nations, has solemnly undertaken that 1t shall refrain
from the threat or use of force against the territorial
1ntegrity or political independence of any state.
The designatlon of the trust territory as a strategic
area 1mplements several of the provislone of Chapter XII
of the Charter which were designed to reconcile in certain
areas legitimate need for eecurity with the obligation
to promote the welfare of the inhabitants. My Government
1s confident that, in addition to contributing to the
maintenance of international peace end security, a
strategic area trusteeshin will at once ensure the maximum
security to the neonles of the 1slands and provide ef-
fective guarantees of the political, economic, social,
and educational advancement of the inhabitants, as
contemrIsted in the Charter.
The malitenance f irternetlunal peace and security
la urtnerr vide 1 P  Artlele tre draft agree-
MA
er
1
8101:81
se
11.1
e  reeners for
trelee Hres  Delh
here ty e tenerel
tthat,rao arttele 2
Prosed
truet

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.93)
- 7-
trust territory will in no way prejudioe inclusion of the
trust territory in the territories covered by any special
agreement concluded by the United States concerning the
provision of armed forces, assistance, and faoilities,
including rights of passage, under Article 43 of the Charter.
In addition, under Article 84 of the Charter 1t 1s the
duty of the administering authorlty to ensure that the
trust territory, whether designated as a strategic area
or not, should play its part in the maintenance of inter
national peace and security, and that to this end the
administering authority may make use of volunteer forces,
facilities, and assistance from the trust territory in
carrylng out the obligations toward the Security Council
undertaken in thls regard by the administering authority.
If thls trusteeehip agreement Is anproved by the Security
Council and if other Members of the United Nations oonoludo
special agreements under Article 43 of the Charter, the
United States of couree will include this trust territory
and lts forces and fecilities in auch a special agreement.
Tihe second and third objectives of the trusteeship
syetem - rela'tit, resreetively, te the advancement of
te irnatttents end resueet r bumen riehte
- are amplified
slderrle dete!
o! 1ne draft
encourage-
cevelonment
ch
few
Belbly
etand

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.95)
- 8-
stand alone 1n the foreseeable future as an independent
state. However, the phrase "self-government" 1s suf-
ficiently broad, in the view of my Government, as to assure
independence if at some future time under different oir
cumatances this seemed desirable. These two Articlee
of the draft agreement far surpass, I am proud to say,
the provisions of the original mandate and equal or sur
pass comparable provlslons in the draft trusteeship agree-
mente for non-atrategic areas submitted to the General
Assembly by the mandatory powers.
The fourth objective of the trusteeship system -
equal treatment of all Members of the United Nations and
treir nationals - ls in the case of strategic areas modi-
fied by Article 83(2) of the Charter, which states that
these basic objectives shall be annlicable to the peopl
of each stretegic area
a8
contrasted with
the Members
of the United Nations and
their nationals.
Therefore,
Article 8 of the draft agreement rrovides for most-favored-
natlon treatment rether than national treatment.
There
ts a very practical reason for lis proposal.
If it is
t known wrere Lases
snell e esterlieled or what kind
of teaes they will :e.
ell livine under
were
tives"

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.91)
- 9-
objectives", one of which 1s the furtheranoe of inter
national peace and security. The United States Govern-
ment thus considers that any other Government which estab-
lished a strategic area under Article 82 and 83 cf the
Charter would, under the same conditions, be fully entitled
to apply the same provisions.
The United States is, in general, opposed to the
establishment of monopolies and, indeed, has questioned
certain proposala made by some Governments in regard to
non-strategic trusteeship agreements whereby the right
to establish monopolies in the interest of the native in-
habitants would be exerclsed at the sole discretion of the
administering authority. My Government, I assure you,
does not desire to take advantage for its own benefit of
such meager and almost non-existent resources and oppor
tunities as may exist in these scattered and barren 1slands.
The proposal for differential economic treatment is not
based unon economic considerations but wholly upon a
strategic concern which it may te nored will itself dis-
ancear in due course.
It may be noted mrt areciel arrengements are needed
with. ree: ect
te cmmerelel ir rnf le rihts in thie
truettry ar
thers, since such
t re reeuted y   caveon on eivil
listeral ee reemete.
t山
rus: Lerri-
fhe
ervlslony
the United

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.92)
- 10 -
the United Natione.
The Charter provides for supervision
over strategic areas in only the most general terms,
since Article 83 states merely that "all funotions of
the United Nationa relating to strategic areas...shall
be exercised by the Security Counoil" and that "the
Security Council shall...avall itself of the assistance of
the Trusteeship Council to perform those functions...re-
lating to political, economic, social, and eduoational
matters in strategic areas". No indioation is given as
to what "those functions" should be. Artiole 13 of the
draft agreement thus goes beyond the legal requirements
of Article 83 of the Charter by providing that Articlos 87
and 88 of the Charter - relating to reports, petitions,
visits, and questionnaires concerning non-strategio areas -
snall be applicable to the trust territory, even though
it 1s designated as a strategic area, except in any areas
which may, from time to time, be specified by the ad-
ministering authority as closed for security reasons.
This excer tion has been made in recognition of the fact
thet an administering author:ty of a strategic trust terri-
tory chould have, in the llscnarge of Its resnonsibilities for
the alntenance r internsttonal  eace and security, the
orit
er hllelons este
nited 3tates
croring
artele l
orts.
etitions,

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.94)
-11-
petitions, visits, and questionnaires provided for in the
trusteeship system. If international agreement is reaohed
with respect to reports, inspections, and similar funotions
in the field of disarmament, atomic energy, or other
non-truateeship matters, Article 13 will have no relevanoo
and the provislons of such agreements will apply to the
entire trust territory to the same extent that they will
apply to territories under the sovereignty of the United States.
I commend for your approval the United States draft
trusteeship agreement for the Japanese Mandatod Islands.
In this draft trusteeship areement the United State
Government reaffirms its historio polloies regarding non-
self-governing peoples and expresses its full confidence
in the international trusteeship system. In the opinion
of my Government this draft agreement does not merely fulfill
the minimum requirements of the Charter; 1t provides a
maximum degree of orotection for the inhabitants. of 
strategic area. It is the rrofound bellef of my Government
and of the American neoole that, 1f thie draft agreement 1s
acproved by the Security Council, the admintstration of
these islanda by the United Stetes will contribute to the
fullest puesibie extent : i t the meintenance of inter
nationaleece  seenr!ty
the we!l-being and ad-
tereny
the
teliberation.
ACCPETY.

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.96)
-12-
Accordingly, I move that when the members of the Counoil
have concluded any general statements they desire to make,
the draft trusteeship agreement be referred to a committee
of the whole for conaideration and for a report thereon
to the Counc1l.
Le

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.96)
L0A fle
STANDARD PORM NO. 64
A-H - Mr. Gross. Le-Mr. Howard
TO
SPA - Mr. Hiss
IS-Mr. Blaisdell
12/2/46
JA - Mr. Borton
Mr. Bancroft
(Captain Dennison
FROM
DA * Mr. Green
(Colonel Giffen
SUBJECT:
Draft Commentary on the U. S. Trusteeship Agreement
for the Japanese Mandated Islends.
Atteched hereto is a copy of the Draft Conmentary
on the United States Trusteeship Agreement for the
Japanese Mandated Islands revised in accordance with
the discussion at our meeting on November 20. A few
revisions have been made in the commentary under Article
69
8, on the basis of suggestions received from the Division
of Commercial Policy and the Aviation Division.
0
Because of the highly significant contro-
2
versy in New York over Article l0 of the New Zealand
246
draft agreement for Western Samoa, I have proposed the
addition of conildential notes under Articles 1 and 5.
This bracketed material can be discussed at our next
meeting.
Enclosure:
As stnted above.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.95)
Nourth Drafs
CONFIDENTIAL
so.
Te the
Deputy Representative of the United States
to the Seourity Counoll,
New York, Mew York.
The Aoting Seeretary of State transmits to the
Deputy Representative of the United States to the
Security Council, for his use in the fortheoming eem-
sideration by the Security Council of the United States
draft trusteeship agreement fer the Japanese Mandated
Islands, a memorandum which provides an interpretatiem
of each Artiele of the draft agreement. It will be
noted that this commentary is more detailed with respeet
to those parts of the draft agreement on which questions
are most likely to ariee in the Security Counoil, namely,
the Preamble, Article 8, and Article 13.
Enclosure
Memorandum above desoribed.
DA: JFGreen
18
SPA
JA
ITP
FPBartlett
AEWellons
LO
~H
C
WLYeomans:mbr:sg:met:mro'r

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.96)
PREAMBLE
WHKREAs Artiole 75 of the Charter of the United
Mations provides for the establishment of an inter-
national trusteeship system for the administration and
supervision of such territories as may be plaeed there-
under by subsequent agreements; and
WHEREAS under Article 77 of the said Charter the
trusteeship system mmy be applied to territories now held
under mandate; and
WHEREAs on Decomber 17, 1920 the Couno1l of the
League of Nations confirmed a mandate for the former
German 1slands north of the equator to Japan, to be
administered in acoordance with Artiole 22 ofthe Covenant
of the League of Nations; and
WHEREAs Japan, as a result of the Second World war,
has ceased to exeroise any authority in these 1slands;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Soourity Couno1l of the United ations,
having satisfied itself that the relevant artioles of
the Charter have been oomplied with, hereby resolves to
approve the following terms of trusteeship for the Paeifio
Islanda formerly under mandate to Japan.
COMMENT
The Preamble is designed to demonstrate that the
legal roquirements ooncerning the oonoluslon of this
trusteeship agreemont have been satisfied. It refors to
the relevant provlslons of the Covenant of the Loague of
Nations and to the Charter of the United Nations, without
specifying the "atates directly concerned" a provided in
Article 79 of the Charter.
The first two clauses cite Articles 75 and 77 of
the  parter w ieh provide in general terms for the
establishment and appllcation of the trusteeship system.
Phe three onelu tin cleuses deal In general with
the crucial yuestin of the "states directly conoerned"
in  Japanese Man late Islands. Article 7 ut the
harter
LUNFILANTIAL

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.96)
-8-
Charter raises this question in the following terms: "The
terms or trasteeship for each territory to be placed under
the trusteeship system, including any alteration or amond-
ment, sball be agreed upon by the states directly oonoorned,
including the mandatory power in the case of territories
held under mandate by a Member of the United Nations, and
shall be approved as provided for 1n Articles 83 and 85".
Following the London meeting of the General Assembly
the United States Government deoided, because of the am-
biguous language of Artiole 79, to advocate a simplified
procedure which would resolve the almost insoluble prob-
lems posed by the phrase "states direotly ooncerned".
It became inoreasingly clear, as the draft agreemonts
for the African Mandates tranamitted by the British and
Belgian Governments early in the year were studiod by
thi: Government, that any effort to specify by name the
"tates direotly concerned" in each territory would load
to endless controversy and perhaps dangerous delay in
establishing the trusteeship syste . Furthermore, any
state so spocified could "veto" the terms of trustoeship
for a territory by refusing to stgn the trusteeship agroo-
ment or by insisting that it coneur in the two-thirds
ma jority vote of the ceneral Assembly.
Phe iayortance of ti's extension of the "veto" into
Lne trotrs le: of be r ited Nat us was obviously
or part.ar importanee wit respeet to both the
Japanese andate
Lalan s and any Japanese islands for
whici tnls oovernment asstmes reaponsibility as a result
of the Sec nn worI: ar, even though any strategic area
agreements
JONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.97)
-3-
agreements for these lslands would have to be approved by
the Seourity Counoil where eaoh of the five permmnent
members exeroise a veto.
Because of the likelihood of aprolonged controversy
in the General Assembly over the definition of the
"states directly ooncerned" with respoot to the draft
trusteeship agreements for elght of the former mandated
territories, the United States Delogation proposed on
November 7, 1946 that the mandatory power alone should be
considered to be the sole "state directly concorned" in
eaoh of these territor les. This policy was stated by
Mr. Dullea as follows:
"It oan be oontended that in the situations
before umonly the Mandatory Power 1s 'direotly
concerned' within the meaning of the Charter. It 1s
true that the Charter uses the plural 'states'.
But this oannot mean that in every case of trustee-
ship more than one atate must agree as to the terms
of trusteeship. If a nation whioh is sole sovereign
over cortain colonial territory is willing to put
that territory under trusteeship, on conditions agree-
able to two-thirds of the Goneral Assembly, surely
it is entitled to do so. Article 77(c) speaks of
territories voluntar:ly placed undor tne system by
states responsible ror their administretion". Clearly,
In these cases t e sovereign is, alone, the state
'directly cuneerned'. Therefore, the fact that tho
Sharter uses the plural does not require us, in every
case, to find several scates
whose preliminary
agreement
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.93)
-4-
agreement must be obtained. The werd 'states' eb-
viously ineludes the singular as well as the plural
and the Charter hould be interpreted as though it
read 'the state or states direotly conoerned'.
Therefore, it can be powerfully argued that where
the territory propose. to be placed under trustee-
ship is administered by a single sovereign, 1ts
agreement is the only agreement required as a prelude
to Assombly astion.
"The United States, however, is willing to
join with others in accepting a syatem of quality
and not asserting a speoial position in relation to
the agreements now before us. we do not want
Interminable and inconolusive discussion. Noither
do we want an interpretation of 'states direotly
conoerned' whioh might import the veto system into the
work of the Assembly. Accordingly, the United States,
without prejudice to its legal rights and on tho
assumption that others will do the same, is ropared,
in relation to the trusteeship agreements now bofore
us, to agree to the. in the form in wh lch, after an
exchange of viewa, te are anbntt od br the
adniter' amut ori rec ende y this com
ttp w
ne Assembly".
(' belegati o thnera Assembly, Preas Ro
lease 03, November , 104c).
The purpose of the fourth olause L tee Preamole was
to verify the fact that Jepen has cease to exercis any
authoricy
CONFIDINTIAL

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.94)
-5-
autherity in the Japanese Mandated Islands and, henee, te
establish the fact that this authority has been transfermed
to the United States as military ocoupant. Consoquently,
the United States, as military oocupant of the Japanese
Mandateu Islands, sent copies of ita draft trusteeship
agreement to the other Mombers of the Socurity Counoil
and to Now Zealand and the Ropublio of the Philippines,
these being the Members or the United Nations whioh would
appear to have special interests in the islands. The
Pros1dent announced on Novomber , 1946 that the United
States would submit this draft agreement to the Security
Counoil at an early date.
The last clause of the Preamble 1s a recognition
of the United States of the faot that the Seourity
Counoil must approve the draft trusteeship before the
Articles of the Charter relating to trusteeship for
strategio areas have been complied with.
The question may arise conoernlng the right of the
United States to submit, before conolusion of the pease
settlement with Japan, a drart trusteeship agreement for
the Japanese Mandated Islanus or (ultinately) for any
Japaneae Islands for wnien tne United States may assume
responsibtles. A senarete enrndthis subjeet
s Dei prApara
L.N1A

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTICLE 1
The Territory ef the Pacifie Islands, eemsisting of
the islands fermerly held by Japan wnder mandate in as-
cerdamee with Artiele 22 of the Covemant ef the League
of Mations, is hereby desigmated as a strategie area
and plaeed under the trustesship system establishbed in
the Charter of the United Nations. The Territery ef the
Pacirie Islands is hereinafter referred to as the trust
territory.
COMMENT
The entire Territory of the Paoifio Islamds is
designated as strategio under the provisions of Artiele 82
of the Charter in order to mest the meeurity requirements
of the United States. The importamee of these seeurity
requirements was olearly shown in the last war. It should
be noted, of course, that this agreement does mot sever
any islands under Japanese sovereignty for whieh the
United States may become responsible but relates enly
to the Japanese Mandated Islands. Ir any other islands
are placed under United States administration the type
of trusteeship will be determined at that time.
This artiole, as in similar artioles in other pro-
posed trusteeship agreements now under consideration,
defines the geographioal extent of the trust territory.
The definition of territory in this article is based upon
the mandate, with the intention that the Unlted States,
in taking over the rights of Jupan, should administer
under trusteeship exaotly the same area as Jupan adminis-
tered under mandate. Thus the trust territory, being
based upon the mandate, is limited to thn land masses of
the islands with their territorial wetors und does not
inolude the millions of square mlies of ocean lying betwoon
he islands.(
(The three arehipelngo in the trust territory
inolude
CONFILENTIAL

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.97)
1nclude 98 1slands and 1sland clusters, with a total land
area or 846 square miles iahabited by 48,297 natives.)
CONFIDENTIAL HOTE
As indieated in the Confidential Note under Artiele 5,
the Soviet Union, China, and India have asserted, in the
General Assembly discussion of the New Zealand drart agree-
ment for Western Samoa, that an administering authority
canmot under Artiele 84 of the Charter establish bases er
station forees in a trust territory other tham for "loeal
defense and the maintenance of law and order", ereept
by designation of the territory as strategie and in as-
cordance with a special agreement or agreements semeluded
with the Security Counoil under Artiele 43 of the Gharter.
It thus appears likely that these Members will oppose the
United States draft agreement on the same groumd, making
speoial reference to Artiole 82 of the Charter, upon which
artiele 1 of the draft agreement is based. Artiole 82
reads as follows:
"There may be designated, in any trusteeship
agreement, a strategio area or areas whieh may
inolude part or all of the trust territory to
which the agreement applies, without prejudice
to any special agreement or agreements made
under Artiole 43."
There is no indication in Article 82 that the conolusion
of a special sgresment or agreements under Artiole 43 or
the Charter must preoede the designation of a strategio
aree or arees in a trust territory. The phrese "without
prejudice to" is admittedly ambiguous but it cannot properly
be interpreted as meaning that rtiole 82 cannot becoms
affective until the relevant speoial agreements have been
conoluded. The phrese was intended, it 1s belioved, to
make aure thut e Member could not remove a trust territory
from
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.97)
frem the jurisdietion of a special agreement cenelmded
under Artiele 43 mrely by designating all or part ef
that territery as strategie. Thus, in ceneluding a
special agreement under Article 43 a Member weuld comsider
the forces and facilities in a strategie area wnder his
administration in the same mammer as in territories wnder
his sovereigaty.
It would seem mecessary, therefore, to resist any
proposal that the desigmation of the territery as strategie
or the establishment of bases and the statioming of armed
forees therein must await the eonolmsion by the United
States of a special agreement under Artiele 43.7
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTIOLE 2
The United States ef Ameriea 1s desigmated as the
admimistering autherity of the trust territery.
COOEIT
Altheugh the United States has not been the mandatery
pewer responsible for these islands, the United States
was primarily responsible for their liberatien, 1s
presently responsible for their administration, and
censiders them essential to the seourity of this sountry
and te the maintenance of international peace and seeurity.
Moreever, of the three remaining effeotive Prineipal Allied
and Assosiated Powers - the United States, the United Xing-
dem, and France - the United States ebviously has the
greatest geographie, political, and strategie interests
in the Pacifie. For these reasons this Government asserts
that the United States alone should be designated as the
administering authority of these 1slands. This 1s in
ascordance with the draft trusteeship agreements pending
in the General Assembly wherein a single Member of the
United Nations is designated as the Adminiatering Authority
even though these agreements are for non-strategic areas.
DRAFTING CHANGE
Is ia suggested that the initial letters of the
phrase "administering muthority" be capitalized throughout
the final text of the trusteeship sgreement.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTIGLE S
The administering autherity shall have full pewere
of admimistratien, legislation, and jurisdietien ever
the territery subjeet to the previsiens ef this agreemens
as an lategral part ef the United States, and may apply
to the trust territery, subjeet te any medifieatiems
whieh the administering autherity may censider desirable,
sueh of the laws of the Daited States as it may deem
apprepriate to loeal conditiens and requirements.
GODENT
The phrase "as an integral part" in this artiele is
in conformity with Artiole XxII ef the Covemant of the
League of Nations as well as the terms of the "0" Mandates
for South West Afriea, New Guinea, Western Samea, Mauru,
and the Japanese Mandated Islands. The first paragraph of
the corresponding artiole in the Mandate granted te Japan
reads as follows:
"The Mandatory shall have full power of
administratien and legislatien over the territery
subjeet to the present Mandate as an integral
portion of the Empire of Japan, and may apply
the laws of the Empire of Japan to the territery,
subject to such loeal modifieatiens as cireum-
stanees may require.
The provisions of this artiole are substantially
similar to corresponding articles in the draft trusteeship
agreements pending in the General Assembly except that fer
Tanganyike, which omits the phrase "as an integral part".
The pertinent article of the Australian draft trusteeship
agreement for New Guinea, however, is more general and pro-
vides for jurisdiotion over the territory "as if it were
an integral part of Australia".
However, neither "as an
integral part"nor "es ir it were an integral part" would
imply that sovoreignty over s truat territory is vested
in the administering authority.
DRAFTING CHANGE
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.94)
MAPXXM SANSE
It is suggested that the werd "trust" be inserted
befere "territery" en the secend lime in erder te ceafemm
with the designatien indieated in Artiele 1.
CONFIDENTIAL HOTE
Should questions be asked about the phrase "as an
integral part" it may be replied that the Umited States
does not understand the phrase te sonmote severeigaty
ever the territery and, therefere, sees ne need for sub-
stitution of "as if it were an integral part".
If serious questions are raised regarding the dis-
eretionary power of the United States te modify the ap-
plieatien of its owm laws, it should be neted that sueh
diseretionary power is "subjeet to the previsions of
this agreement".
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTIGLE 4
The administering autherity, in diseharging the
ebligatiems ef trusteeship in the trast territery.
shall ast in accerdanee with the harter or the kaited
Natiens, and the previsiens ef this agreement, and
shall, as spesified in Article ss(2) ef the Charter,
apply the objestives of the internatiemal trusteeship
system, as set forth in Artiele 76 ef the @harter, te
the peeple of the trust territery.
CONDENT
This artiele explieitly obliges the United States
te apply the objestives of the internatiemal trusteeship
system to the peeple of the trust territory. Both New
Zealand and Australia undertake to administer their pre-
posed trust territories "in sueh a manner as to ashieve
... the basie objeetives of the international trustee-
ship system" and in the New Zealand draft agreement
Artiele 76 of the Oharter 1s quoted in full.
Sinee the 1nternational trusteeship system is de-
signed primarily for the proteotion and benefit of the
1nhabitants of trust territories the recognition in this
artiole of this Government's obligation to apply the ob-
jectives of the trusteeahip system to the people of the
trust territory 1s of fundamental importsnoe. In
Articles 5, 6, 7, and 8 the draft agreement outlines
the specific measures by which the United Stetes proposes
to implement those objectives.
CONFIDENTIAL NOTE
Pending trusteeship agreements tor non-strategic
aroas provide snecifically for coliaboration with the
Goneral Assembly end the Trusteeship Counoil. Bueh
collaboration has not been s ecified in the agreement
submitted by the United Stetes in view or the paramount
importanee
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.95)
Impertanee of security requirements in strategie areas
and in accerdanee with the exeeptien allewed in
Artiele as(s) of the aarter. Artiele 1s of the draft
agreement, hevever, resegaises the respensibilities of
the Gemeral Assembly and of the Trusteeship Soumeil
exeept in those areas elosed fer security reasems.
It is te be assumed that the Uaited States Gevermment
will net aet in any 1rresponsible fashien with respeet
to elosing sueh areas.
CONFLDENTIAL

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.95)
ARTIGLE S
La dischargiag its obligations uader Artiele (a)
and Artiele 84, ef the Charter, the admimistering math-
ority shall eneure that the trust territory shall play
Its part, in assordamee with the Charter of the Wmited
Nations, in the maimtemanee of iatermational peaee amd
seeurity. To this end the administering authority shall
be entitled:
(1) to establiah naval, military and air bases
and to erect fortifications in the trust territory;
(2) to station and employ armed forees in the
territory; and
(3) to make use of volunteer forces, fasilities
and assistance from the trust territory im carrying
out the obligations towards the Seeurity Goumell
undertaken in this regard by the administering auth-
ority, as well as for the local defense and the
maintenance of law and order within the trust
territory.
COXMENT
This article specifies the military measures which
the United States may take in the trust territory to
assist in the maintenance of international peace and
seourity and the seourity of the United States, which
constitute the rimary remsons for designating the
truet territory as a strategic area.
Provisions similar to this article are contained in
the other vendins draft trusteeship agreements exoept in
the Auntralian raft a reement for New Guinea. The much
shorter end more general rorm of the Australian draft
ree nt wes idere unsrtiaf ctr b the State, War,
an Nevy De artenta.
Thir article is designed tia me
thepowers
( nferred upon the United Nations w  may be eesential
rr the fulrillme ut of ony obiisati me a e med undor
Article 43
C NFIDENTIAL

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.98)
Artiele 43 of the Charter. It does mot limit the pewers
of the Umited States with respeet to seeurity, for these
are granted in broad and general form by Artiele 3 of
the draft agreement.
It should be noted that, ascording to Artiole 84
of the Charter, it 1s the duty of the administering
authority to ensure that the trust territory, whether a
strategio area or a non-strategio area, shall play its
part in the maintenance of international peace and seeurity.
If this trusteeship agreement 1s approved by the Beeurity
Counoil and if other Nembers of the United Nations conelnde
with the Security Council speelal agreements under Artiele
43 of the Charter, the United States will inolude this trust
territory and its forces and facilities in such a speeial
agreement.
/CONFIDENTIAL NOTE
Article X of the New Zealand draft agreement for
Western Samoa, whioh 1s similar to the present article, was
strongly opposed 1n the General Aesembly by the Delegations
of the Soviet Union, China, and India. The Soviet Delogation
contended 1n the Trusteeship Suboommittee that Article 84
of the Charter did not empower an admin1stering authority
to establish bases or statlon armed foroes in a trust
territory. Since such aotions were for the purpose of
carrying ut "obligations towards the Security Counoil"
the trust territory would have to be designated as strategio
and the agreement approved by the Security Counoil.
The
Indian Delegation supoorted this argument, while the Chinese
Delegation asserted that the powers of the administering
authority to establish bager and etatlon armed forces would
be soverned
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.97)
Be govermed by Artiele 43 of the Charter. These prepesals
were opposed by the United States, United Kingiom, Anstralian,
and other Delegations and were defeated by a vete of 10 - 7.
The Soviet Delegation reserved the right to raise the lssme
again in the Comittee.
As indicated in the Confidential Note under Artiele 1,
it seeme likely that the United States draft agreement will
be opposed on similar grounds. The opinion may be expressed
by other Members that the United States 1s not entitled to
establish bases or station armed foroes in the trust territery,
even though the territory 1s designated as strategie, wntil
1t has conoluded with the Security Counoil a speoial agree-
ment under Artiole 43 of the Charter.
While the legislative history of Artioles 82, 8s, and
84 of the Charter provides no conolusive interpretation of
the role of the Security Counoil in the trusteeship systom,
it 1s believed that the Council 1a not granted by the
Charter any speclal powers regarding the establishment and
supervision or bases and armed forces in trust territories,
whether designated as strategic or non-strategio, beyond
those whioh it may ultimately receive under speoial agree-
ments concluded under Article 43 of the Charter or 1n agree-
ments for the regulation of armaments. Article 83 of the
Charter does not make clear what funotions the Seourity
Council exercises with respect to a strategio area, excopt
for (1) approving the trusteeehip agreement and its
alteration r anend vent, and () availing itself of the
asslstance f the rueteeehio Council with respeot to
polilical, economic, social, and educational matters.
It
is assumed, therefore, that any other such funetions
(bo yond
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.98)
(beyomd the Counoll's general powers and funetiems) would
have to be stipulated in the trusteeship agreement.
Artiele 84 of the Charter, upon whioh the present
article is based, reads as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the admimistering authority
to ensure that the trust territory shall play its part
in the maintenance of international pease and seeurity.
To this end the administering authority may make use
of volunteer forces, facilities, and assistanee from
the trust territory in carrying out the obligatioms
towards the Seourity Council undertaken in this re-
gard by the administering authority, as well as for
looal defense and the maintenanoe of law and order
within the trust territory.
Artiole 84 was designed to ensure that trust territories,
like territories under the sovereignty of Members of the
United Nations, should contribute to the maintenanee of
international peace and security. with respeot to mamdated
territories it thus removed the ban on the establishment
of fortifications or bases and on military training.
The second sentence of Article B4 clearly implies that
the conclusion of a special agreement or agreements under
Artiole 43 follows rather than precedes the recruitment of
troops and the establishment of faoilities in a trust
territory. That 1s, the administering authority, having
previously reoruited volunteer forces and established
facilities, may use these forces and facilities not only
for carrying ut any obligatlons undertaken towards the
Security Council but slso for local defense and the main-
tenance f law and order. Thi sentence has a permissivo
not a mandatory verb; it ive: no indication whatever that
arrangements for forces and facilitiee must await conolusion
of & epecial agreement under Article 43. The Security
Council thus does not become conoerned in these arrangement
unt11
CNFIDENTIAL

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.96)
until it coneludes a special agreement relating te the
trust territory.
Any proposal that the provisiens of the presemt artiele
could not become operative until the United States conelwles
with the Security Council a special agreement umder Artisle
43 of the Charter would, therefore, be unacceptable
CNFIDENTIAL

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTIOLE 6
In discharging its obligations under Artiele te(b)
of the Charter, the administering authority shall:
(1) foster the development of sueh pelitieal
institations as are suited to the trust territery
and shall promote the develepment of the imbabitamts
of the trust territory teward self-govermment, and
to this end shall give to the imhabitants of the
trust territory a progressively inoreasing share
in the administrative services im the territory;
shall develop their participatiom in local goverm-
ment; shall give due recognition to the eustome
of the inhabitants in providing a system of law
for the territory; and shall take other mppropriate
measures toward these ends;
(2) promote the economie advaneement and self-
sufficienoy of the inhabitants and to this end shall
regulate the use of natural resources, emeourage
the development of fisheries, agrieulture, and
industries; protect the inhabitants against the
loss of their lands and resourees; and improve the
means of transportation and communication;
(3) promote the social advanoement of the
1nhabitants, and to this end shall proteet the rights
and fundamental freedoms of all elements of the
population without discriminatiom; proteet the health
of the inhabitants; control the traffie in arms and
ammunition, opium and other dangerous drugs, and
aloohol and other spirituous beverages; and institute
such other regulations as may be neoessary to proteet
the inhabitants against sooial abuses; and
(4) promote the eduoational advanoement of the
1nhabitants, and to this ond shall take steps toward
the establishment of a general system of elementary
education; facilitate the vocatlonal and cultural
advanooment of the population; and sall encourage
qualiried students to pursue higher education,
including training on the professional level.
COMMENT
These provisions elaorate the general objectives of
Article 76(b) and c nstitute a considerable advance over the
terne f the original mandates and, in many respeots over
the terms f the other pending trueteeahip agroements.
The
other draft agreemente pending in the Generel Assembly
omit, for instance, elaboration on sconomic and aocial
orovisions
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
provislons exeept for the Belgian and Mew Zealand drafts
which sontain comparable provisions omly for soeial
advaneement.
It 1s noted that, unlike the draft agreements for
the proposed non-strategio trust territories, with the
exception of Ruanda-Urundi, this agreement refers to
the development of the people of the territory as being
direoted speoifically towards "self-government" rather
tnan "self-government or independenoe" inoorporated in
Article 76(b) of the Charter. This apparent prior
judgment of the ultimate status of the trust territory
1s justified by its sparse, highly scattered population,
by its relatively underdeveloped, indigenous central
government, and by its laek of economio resources.
DRAFTING CHANGE
It 1s suggested that, for the sake of uniformity,
a comma be inserted after "inhabitants" in the second
l1ne of paragraph (2).
C)NFIDENTIAL

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTIOLE 7
In diseharging 1ts obligations under Artiole re(e)
of the Charter, the administering authority, subjeet
only to the regwirements of publio order and seeurity.
shall guarantee to the iahabitants of the trust terri-
tory freedom of speeeh, of the press, and of assembly;
freedom of conseienee, of worship, and of religious
temehing; and freedom of migratiom and movement.
CONMENT
There were no comparable guarantees of freedom of
speech, of the press, of assembly, and of migration and
movement in the mandate agreements. The present artiele
goes further than simllar artioles in the draft agreements
for Western Samoa and the African "B" mandates in alse pre-
viding for "freedom of migration and movement". The provision
that these freedoms are subject not only to the requirements
of publio order, as in the other draft trusteeship agreememts,
but also seourity 1s necessary in view of the faet that
the trust territory 1s a strategio area.
The right of petition (exoept for the inhabitants of
areas closed for security reasons), which in other draft
trusteeship agreemente 1s included in comparable articles,
1s provided for in Article 13 of the agreement submitted
by the United States.
DRAFTING CHANGE
The comma following "76(e)" in the firat line of
this =rticle should be removed.
CNFIDANTLAM

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTICLE 8, paragraph 1
1. In diseharging its obligations under Artiele
76(d) of the Charter, as defined by Artiele 8s(2) of
the Charter, the administering authority, subjest to
the reguirements of sesurity, and the ebilgation to
promote the advanoement of the inhabitants, shall
ascerd to nationals of each Member of the United Mations
and to eompanies and associations organised in eemfermity
with the laws of sueh Member, treatment in the trust
territory no less favorable than that acsorded therein
to nationals, aompanies and associations of any other
United Nation, exoept the administering authority.
COMMENT
The intent of this paragraph is to onsure most-
favored-nation treatment in the trust territory for all
other Members of the United Nations. The possibility
of national7 treatment, subjeot to requirements of security
was oonsidered, but 1t was coneluded that this formula
could not be praotioally or oquitably applied and that
adequate protection of security interests eould not be
assured. Consequently, it was agreed to adopt most-
favored-nation treatment.
It is believed that most-favored-nation treatmont is
justifiel by Artiole 76(d) of the Charter whieh provides
for equal treatment to all members and their nationals
"without prejudice to the attainment of the foregoing
objeotives" - one of which is to further international
peace and security. In a atrategic area it must be
assumed that the security objective must be the overriding
conaideration. Consequently, provislon of "equal treat-
ment" in the form of moat-fevored-natlon treatment my
be reearded as uhe of the principal characteristics of
a strategic-area agreement.
The requirement of most-favored-nation treatment
does not o nfliot wit an provis on or the Charter
a nee ths Charter Itaelr does not provide other Mombere
of tho
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.95)
of the United Nations speoial rights in a strategie
area. Artiole 83(2) specifically indicates that "the
basio objeotives set forth in Artiole 76 shall be a
lieable to the people of ach strategie area." -
lining inserted.7 It cannot be olaimed that Artiele 76(a),
whioh refers to the onguring of "equal treatment in sesial,
coonomic, and commeroial mattors for all Members of the
United Nations and their nationals" as an objeetive of
the trusteeship system, necessitates national treatment
as oppose. to most-favored-nation troatment. This ar-
tiole concerns the governments and peoples of other
Mombers of the United Nations, whereas aocording to Ar-
tiole 83(2) the objeotives of the trusteeship ystm as
set far th in Artiole 76 are applicable to the people of
each strategic area. It sh uld be noted that this ref-
orenoe to the people of the area, as opposed to the arem
as a whole, is one of the distinctive features of a
strategio area trusteeship. In the same conneotion, it
should also be noted that the terms of the Mandate for
the Pac1fic Islands made at Goneva 1n Dooember 1920 d1d
not reguire the mandatory to guarantee even most-favored-
nation troatment.
This paragraph is of vital importanoe to the Unitod
States  it is to he responsihle for adminiatering these
Lalands as 8 stcatee'o area ho' "to further international
peace anm senrtty" u der Artials 7 (e) an: t ensure that
 trst erel"shall play s part" towards
these er
。
DRAFTING
CONPIDENTIAL

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.94)
DRAFTING CHANGE
The fellewing drafting ohanges are suggested:
(a) the omission of the comma after the phrase
"subjeot to the reguirements of seeurity" and
(b) the substitution of "Member of the United
Nations" for the words "United mation" -- the
5th and 6th words from the end of the paragraph.
CONFTENLLAL

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
ARTICLE 8, paragraph 2
2. The administering authority shall easure equal
treatment to the Members of the United Mations and their
natiomals in the administration of justiee.
COLOENT
Although, for the reasons indicated in the "Comment"
under paragraph 1 of this Artiole, the provision of
Artiole 76(d) of the Charter regarding equal treatment
in the administration of justice would not appear to
be mandatory 1n its application to strategie areas, it
is obviously oonsonant with basio principles of this
Government. Under accepted international practioe, as well
as in the actual wording of Article 7s(a), such equal treat-
ment, however, should be considered as specifically appli-
cable to the nationals of all Nembers of the United Nations
rather than to the Membera themselves.
DRAFTING CHANGE
The following drafting change 1s suggested:
"The administering authority shall ensure equal
treatment to the for the natlonale of all Members of
the United Nations and thetr matiemels in the adminis-
tration of justice".
This would amend paragraph 2 to conform more olosely with
the actual wording of Article 76(d) of the Charter and
with accepted internati nal practices.
C NFIDENTIAL

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICLE 8, parugraph 3
3. Nothing in this Artiole shall be so construed
as to aceerd trarfie rights to airoraft flying inte
and out or the trust territory. Suoh rights shall be
subjeet to agreement between the administering awtherity
and the state whose nationelity sueh aireraft possesses.
COMMENT
This paragraph was inserted in the draft trusteeship
agreement for the Japanese Mandated Islands at a time
when it wes originally thought that a similar provisiom
should be suggested by this Government for inelusien in
all trusteeship agreements. The purpose of the provision
was to make it clear that commereial traffio, as distimet
from simply ir transit rights, were covered by speeirie
bilateral agreements. Air traffio rights whieh comeerm
the pioking up and diseharge of passengers, mail, and
eargo, on the other hand, are covered by the Chieage
Convention on Civil Aviation. Although certain of the
mandatory powers with whose experts this olause was dis-
oussed did not, under these ciroumstanoes, believe it was
a neeessary provision, thoy appeared willing to accept it.
subsequently, in connection with ull other pending draft
trusteeship agreements this Government decided not to pro-
pose such a parugraph. Its reason ror doing so was that
spocifio bilateral ugreoments regurdine air trafric rights
would take precedence over any generalized multilaterel
urrangemonts incidental to a dooument araftoc lor another
purposs.
Irrespeetive or the terms c1 the pre ent druft
trusteeshlp agrseaent regaiding tne generel iorm of veo-
uomi treutment among all Memburs in the trust territory
commerclai ulr trulrlc rights,  uic remain the same for
te/ woulu ur subjoot to
existing
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.95)
existins or future specifie bilateral agreememt ant ms
to the type of esonomio treatment set forth im a trestes-
ship agreemont.
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.97)
ARTICLE 8, paragraph 4
4. The administering authority may negotiate and
conelude cemmeroial and other treaties and agreements
with Members of the United Nations and other states,
desigmed to attain fer the imhabitamts of the trust
territory treatment by the Members of the United Matioms
and other states mo less favorable than that granted by
them to the nationals of other states. The Seourity
Couneil may reeommend, or invite other organs of the
United Nations to consider and recommend, what rights
the imhabitants of the trust territory should asquire
in consideration of the rights obtained by Members of
the United Nations in the trust territory.
COMENT
The intent of this paragraph is to proteet the
interests of the inkabitants of the trust territory in the
economic treatment and other rights whieh they may ebtain
outside the trust territory. The paragraph provides that
the United States may megotiate and conolude apprepriate
international agreements whioh will attain for the imhab-
itants or the trust territory most-favored-nation treatmemt
by Members of the United Nations. In addition it provides
that the Seourity Counoil or, at its invitatiom, other
organs of the United Nations mmy recommend what other
rights the inhabitants of the trust territory should
aoquire in consideration of the rights obtained by Mombers
of the United Nations in the trust territory.
This Governmont, in preliminary disoussions regarding
the non-strategic draft trusteeship greements ponding in
the Generel Assembiy, acceptec the proposel suggested by
the Mencetories concerned th t the enjoyment of spoelal
rights in the trust territory y Member: or the United
Netions shoul be sutomuticell ortingent upon the lattor's
conferring similar right: reciprocall on the inhabitant
ofh
ONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
ef the trust territery coneermed. This agreememt applies
to a strategie area. The rights of other Members of the.
United Mations in the trust territery, therefore, are
those of a most-favored-nation charaeter, and previsiem
is made for seeuring similar treatment for the inhabitamss
of the trust territory by the Members of the United
Nations and other states. For these reasons the auto-
matically reeiprocal provision suggested for nom-strategie
area trusteeship agreements is not necessary in order to
proteot the inhabitants of the trust territery from speeial
forms of diseriminatory treatment.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTICLE 9
The administering authority shall be entitled to
oonstitute the trust territory into a customs, fiseal
tories under United States jurisdiotion and to establish
common servioes between suoh territories and the trust
territory where such measures are not inoonsistent with
the basic objeotives of the International Trusteeship
System and with the terms of this agreement.
COMMENT
This artiole should be read in oonneotion with
..rticle 3 of the draft agreement whioh provides in part
that the administering authority shall have full powers
of administration over the territory as an integral part
of the United States. Both  rtioles 3 and 9, it should
be noted, are made subjeot to the terms of this agreemont.
The substance of Artiole 9 permits oustoms, fisoal, or
administrative union or federation, with other territories
under United States jurisdiotion. It is praotioally
identicel with : similar provision in the British, French,
Belgian, and New Zealand draft agreements. Provision
for such union or federation 1s obviously desirable to
ensure the efficient administration of such island areas
as Saipan whioh will fuoe many problems oommon to the
neurby island of Guam. However, such a provision does
not imply sovereignty over the trust territory.
UNINI

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTICLE 10
The administering authority, aoting under the pre-
visions of Artiele 3 of this agreement, may aceept mem-
bership in any regional advisory commission, regional
authority, or teohnioal organization, or other voluntary
assooiation of states, may cooperate with spesialized
international bodies, publio or private, and may engage
in other forms of international oooperation.
COMMENT
This article, which is permissive but not mandatory,
is particularly appropriate for the trust territory and,
in view of the limited eoonomy and undeveloped status
of the native inhabitants, offers an opportunity for
them to benefit from assooiation with other peoples who
face similar probloms. such association would onable
the people to dovelop a regional economy, to take advan-
tage of technical studies on common problems, and to
participate effectively in furthering their own develop-
ment. The advantages of regional organization have boon
effeotively demonstrated by the Caribbean Commission
while plans ure already underway to establish a Regional
Commission for dependent territories in the South Paoifio.
ll of the mandatory powers, with the exoeption of
ustrulia, have included  similar artiole in the trustee-
ship agreements ror the i manduted territories. No com-
parable provi 1on wu ineiude in the terms or the mandate
for the  Paeiri i end un hion they were administered
byJ: xi
CU1TL

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
ARTICLE 11
1. The administering authority shall take the
neeessary steps to provide the status of eitisenship
of the trust territory for the inhabitants of the trust
territory.
2. The administering authority shall afford dip-
lomatic and consular proteotion to inhabitants of the
trust territory when outside the territorial limits of
the trust territory or of the territory of the administering
authority.
COMMENT
The status of oitizenship will tend to create a
common bond amongst peoples who otherwise might feel no
unity and consequently would have dirrioulty in working
toward the objeotives of the trusteeship system as set
forth in Artiole 76 of the Charter.
In regard to the native inhabitants of mandated terri-
tories the Permanent Mandates Commission, in its second
session, drew up a recommendation stating that the native
inhabitants of B and C mandated territories were not
nationals of the mandatory though they might be naturalised
individually. They were to be regarded as nationals of
the territory itself, and it was desirable that they be
designated by some form of desoriptive title whioh would
specify their status under the mandate. After an ertensive
debate in the Counoil of the League, 1n April, 1923, this
recommendation was adopted but with speoial permission to
South Afrioa to naturalize the Germans in South Wost Afriea
on masse giving individuals an option to refuse. The Umion
and German Governments entered into an agreement in London
in l923 under whioh the Union of South Afrioa aooepted the
Germans of South West Afrioa as a part of the Union people,
with the same privileges and responsibilities as the other
citizens. As a result of this agreement 3,228 Germans
beeame
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
became naturalised Union subjeots. In 1942 the Uniom
Governmemt, by Aot or Parliament denaturalized the Ger-
mans who since 1924 had been automatioally maturalised
as Union natives but who continued to olaim German
citizenship.
When the suboommittee of the Permanent Mandates Com-
mission was examining the question of the status of man-
dated peoples prior to the Commission's recommendation
on the subject M. Matsuda of Japan expressed to the sub-
committee his thought that it would be "oontrary to the
spirit of Artiole 22 of the Covenant to assimilate the
native inhabitants of mandated territory to the subjeets
of the mandatory Power. On the other hand, having in
mind the interests of these peoples, they should be ae-
corded every advantage granted to subjeots of the mndatory
Power."
Diplomatio and consular proteotion of inhabitants of
the trust territory when outside the territorial !imits of
the trust territory or of the territory of the administering
authority serves not only to provide the inhabitants a
necessary service whioh otherwise would be unavailable,
but also to establish the rights of the inhabitants under
international law.
It 1s noteworthy that the provisions of this artiole are
not inoluded in the draft trusteeship agreements for other
Pacifio territories or for the Afrioan territories, none
of which are strategio in charaoter. Neither were such
provisions inoluded in the terms of the mandate under whieh
the islands were administered by Japan.
It
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.91)
It might be pointed out, if the question arises,
that the present artiole would not preolude the imhabitants
from being granted United States oitizenship in addition to
their own oitizenship, but no suoh aotion is now oontemplated.
UN11

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.96)
ARTICLE 12
The administering authority shall emaot such
legislation as may be necessary to place the pro-
visions of this agreement in effeot in the trust
territory.
COMMENT
This article constitutes an international commitmemt
upon the part of the United States to implement by logis-
lation as neoessary the provisions of the trusteeship
ugreement.
No suoh assurance has been inoluded in the draft
agreements submitted by the United Kingdom, Franoe,
Belgium, Australia, and New zealand.
CC11

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.98)
ARTICLE 13
The provisions of Artieles 87 and s of the Charter
shall be applioable to the trust territory, provided that
the administering authority may determime the extent of
their applicability to any areas whieh may from time to
time be specified by it as closed for security reasems.
COMMENT
Artiole 83(3) of the Charter provides that the
Security Council shall utilize the Trusteeship Council 1n
connection with reports, petitions, periodic visits, and
questionnaires "relating to political, •conomio, social,
and eduoational matters in the strategio areas". These
funotions are provided for in Artioles 87 and 88 of the
Charter. Artiole 13 of this draft agreement is, therefore,
necessary in order to implement the above Charter provision
in the proposed trust territory.
In this respeot the draft trusteeship agreement for
the Japanese Mandated Islands is not essentially different
from pending draft trusteeship agreements for other proposed
trust territories. Artiole 88 of the Charter, by restrioting
the Trusteeship Council's questionnaire to "politioal, ●oo-
nomio, social, and educational" problems, clearly implies
that the Trusteeship Council will not conoern itself with
purely military problems in any trust territory whether
strategio or non-strategic. Artiole 83(3) simply reiterates
the prinoiple that the Trusteeship Council in strategie areas
shall similarly perform funotions "relating to political,
economio, social, and educational matters".
Artiole 13 of this draft agreement, however, would
permit the administering authority to determine the extent
of the Trusteeship Council's functions in those areas
of the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.98)
of the trust territory whioh might from time to time be
speciried as "olosed for security purposes". Sueh an ex-
ception is permitted under Artiole 83(3) of the Charter
whioh wisely provides that the funotions of the Trusteeship
Council in strategio areas shall be "subjeot to the pro-
visions of the trusteeship agreements and without projudioe
to security considerations". This is a logioal provision
since, without it, there would be little essential difference
between a strategio and a non-strategio area. The dis-
tinction was reoognized when the Charter was being drawn
up and constitutes a basic principle of Chapter XII of
the Charter itself.
It should be noted, however, that Artiole 13 implies
in its phrase "extent of applioability" that oven in "olosed"
areas the administering authority need not preolude the
Trusteeship Counoil from carrying out certain of its funetions.
For instance it is possible that even in suoh areas the
Trusteeship Council might well be authorized to requost and
consider reports submitted by the administering authority,
to accept petitions and examine them in consultation with
the administering authority, and otherwise to keep itself
informed of the political, economic, social, and educational
development of the inhabitants of these "olosed" areas.
w of the geography  the trust torritory whya
land mass, purely maourity reasons might, homever, prever
fre entry or Anspeotion pposes to any part  one of
Just
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.97)
Just what areas will from time to time be "olosed
for seourity reasons" will depend upon ourrent intermatiomal
conditions and oonsequent requirements for the adequate
character of the proposed trust territory, indeed, whioh
requires that the functlons of the Trusteeship Counoil
in "closed" areas may be to some extent restrioted. 
indionted under rticle 4, however, it is to be assumed
thet the United state. will not act in uny irresponsiblo
fushion in closin such areas.
It should be noted thut rticles 87 und 88 or the Charter,
referred to in this article of the draft agreement, relato
to reports, petitions, visits, nd cuestionnaires only in
the trusteeship field. If n international agreement con-
cerning aisarmament, atomic energy, or any other subjeet
outside the trusteeship field providec for reports and
inspections, the United tates would upply the agreement
to the trust territory  in territories under its sovereignty.
The orovision of rticle 3 or the drert greement, by whion
the trust territory oul. be aministered "es an integral
prt of the united tt r lev nt to thie point.

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
ARTICLE 14
The administering authority undertakes to apply in
the trust territory the provisions of any internatiomal
conventions and recommendations whiah may be appropriate
to the partioular ciroumstanoes or the trust territery and
whioh would be oonducive to the aohievement of the basie
objectives of .rticle 6 of this agreement.
COMMNT
The provision seems to be undeniably desirable in the
interests of the inhabitants since it will seeure for the
inhabitants of the territory the benefits of all appropriate
international conventions and recommendations, inoluding
agreements which already exist as well as those which may
be adopted in the future by the United Nations and its
specialized agencies. Comparable artioles, at the suggestion
of the United States, have been included in all of the draft
agreements submitted by the mandatory powers.
This article however, is broader than the comparable
artioles in the Australian, New Zealand, and French draft
agreements. Article 6 of the agreement for New Guinea
limits the application of international agreements and
recommendations to those which "are in the opinion of the
administering authority suited to the needs and conditions
of the territory..." The New Zealand Artiole XIII in the
agreement for Western Samoa is narrower than the United
States' in two respeots: (1) existing conventions and
recommendations are not inoluded in its soope; and (2) the
phrase "in the opinion of the administering authority" 1s
inoluded just as in the Australian draft. The Frenoh
Article 6 limits the application to "international agree-
ments and conventions whioh are at present in force there..."
(1.e. in the territory).
No provision similar to those in this artiole were
included in the mandate granted to Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
ARTICLE 15
The terms of the present agreement shall not be
altered, amended or terminated without the oonsent of the
administering authority.
COMMENT
Artiole 79 of the Charter provides that "the terms of
trusteeship ... including any alteration or amondmont, shall
be agreed upon by the states directly conoerned, inoluding
the mandatory power ..." In as muoh as eaoh mandatory power
is presumably to be appointed as administering authority
under the trusteeship agreement whioh it is submitting for
approval, reference to alteration or amendment of the terms
of trusteeship for a mandated territory in acoordanee with
Article 79 is comparable, in the case of a mandatory power,
to the present provision that as administering authority
the United States must consent to the alteration, amendment
or termination of the terms of trusteeship for the Paoifio
islands.
The provisions of this artiole are substantially
similar to comparable provisions in the agreements submitted
by the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, and New Zealand for
territories which they intend to place under trusteeship.
The only important difference is the inolusion of the word
"terminated" in the United States agreement. While it oan
be contended that "termination" is one form of "alteration
or amendment" for purpose of Article 79, specifio roforence
to termination removes all possible doubt on this point.
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.94)
ARTICLE 16
The present agreement shall ceme inte feree when
appreved by the Beeurity Cewnell of the Uaited Natiems
and by the Gevernment ef the United states arter dwe
censtitutienal preeess.
COOST
This artiele merely defines the steps mesessary fer
the agreement to come into foree under the Charter ef the
United Nations, and under the Constitution of the Umited
States. Artiole 83 of the Charter of the United Matiens
provides that the terms of trusteeship agreements relating
to strategic areas must be approved by the Seeurity Ceumeil.
Consideration is being given in the Department of state te
the form in whieh Goveramental appreval should be givem te
the agreement.
CONFIDENT LAL

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.97)
DC/Rf
STANDARD PORM NO. 04
A-H - Mr. Gross
IS - Mr. Bancroft
TO
: SPA - Mr. H1s
JA - Mr. Borton
DATE: DeC. 3, 1946
Is - Mr. Blaiedell Le - Mr. Howard
FROM :DA - Mr. Green
SUBJECT:
Attached hereto are copies of letters from
Mr. Dulles and Mr. Laurence Duggan which have been
forwarded to me by Mr. Gerig who suggests that we
may wish to consider them in connection with our pre-
paretione concerning the draft trusteeship agreement
for the Japanese Mandated Islands.
8
6
0
2
Attachments:
3
1.
From John Foster Dulles,
46
November 30, 1946, to Roger N. Baldwin.
2.
To Sen. Warren Austin,
November 26, 1946.

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.98)
COPIED:MBR
Hotel Penneylvania,
New York, N. Y.
November 30, 1946
Er. Roger N. Baldwin,
American Civil Liberties Union,
170 Fifth Avenue,
New York 10, N. Y.
Dear Ar. Baldwin:
I have your letter of November 26, 1946,
with the enclosed letter from Mr. Duggan to Senator
Austin.
The terms of trusteeship proposed by the
United States were prepared by the Department of State
and will go direct to the Security Council. Accord-
ingly, the matter does not fell within the Jurisdiotion
of this Delegation, which is a Delegation to the Gen-
eral Assembly. However, I shall take occasion to bring
to the attention of State Department officials the point
made in the encloeed letter to Senator Austin.
Sincerely yours,
John Foster Dulles

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
COPIED:MBR
AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION
170 Fifth Avenue
New York 10, Now York
November 26, 1946
Sen. Warren Austin, Chairman
United States Delegation
General Assembly
United Nations
Dear Senator Austin:
We have examined with some care the trusteeship
agreement for the Pacific Islands submitted by our
government in the light of rights to be granted to the
native peoples. We are not concerned with the form of
trusteeship, which is a political matter outside our field,
but with the extension to native peoples of those civil
liberties which ch racterize the United States.
We note in the document some assurances of these
liberties, but they appear to us to lack precision in
two respects:
1. There is no assurance of civil government. If
the traditional policy concerning Guam and Samoa 1s fol-
lowed, arbitrary naval rule under a commander from whom
there is no appeal will govern the 1slands. It requires
no argument to demonstrate that such rule, however benevolent,
cannot achieve the objects stated in the draft agreement.
The experience in Guam and Samoa le eloquent enough
testimony to that.
In our judgment civil government should be provided
for the natives with the Navy left in command of inatalla-
tione in the same manner as our naval and air bases in
other counties.
2. No assurance is  1ven of teaching in native
lan uesee. One of :he worst asnecte of our colonial policy
in the Fhilipnines, Fuerto Rico, Guam and Samoa has been
our insistence on the use of a foreign tongue for native
1..struction. surely netive teachers can be treined or
Americens

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Amerioans found who speak the native language. To
1mpose English is wholly out of keeping with sound
educational practice or the natural feelings of pride
all people have in their own tongue.
May we earnesly request consideration of amend-
ments to the draft agreement to include these guarantees?
We are, with great respect,
Sincerely yours,
/s/ LAURENCE DUGGAN
Chairman,
Committee on Civil Rights
in American Colonies
John Foster Dulles

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.96)
DCR
A-H - Mr. Gross
IS - Mr. Bancroft
TO
SPA - Mr. H1se
JA - Mr. Borton
DATE: DeC. 6, 1946
IS - Mr. Blaiedell
Le - Mr. Howard
FROM
DA - Mr. Green
Capt. Dennison
Col. Giffin
SUBJECT:
Attached hereto is a new draft of the statement
on the United States trusteeship agreement revised in
accorcance with the discussjon at our last meeting.
The severel pages following the text of the President's
statement incorporate the principal points made in
4r. Cohen's draft statement.
12e9
89
0
Attacrment:
-646
As apove deecrtbed.

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.96)
sizth Drafs
RESTBIOTR
SUMISSION TO THE SEOURITY COUNCIL OF THE
UNITED STATES DRAFT TRUSTEESHIP AGREBMENT
FOR THE
JAPANESE MANDATED ISLANDS
Draft Statment br Nr. Hereehel Jehneen
I have the homor to transmit to the Seeurity Gowmell
the following message from the Beeretary of State of
the United States of Amerioa:
"By aubmitting to the Seeurity Counoil, fer its ap-
preval, a draft trusteeship agreement for the Japanese
Mandated Islands, the United States reafrirms its com-
viction that all non-self-governing territories should
be administered in the spirit of trusteeship and that the
inhabitants of these territories should be enoouraged and
assisted to play their rightrul role in world affairs.
President Wilson was one of the ohief arohiteets
of the mandates system in the League of Nations Covenant,
which proolaimed the prinoiple that the well-being
and dovelopment of the peoples of the mandated terri-
tories ars "a saored trust of civilization". More reoontly,
1t was President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churohill
who, in the Atlantic Charter, ledged that "Their
countries seek no aggrandizement, territorial or other".
At te Crimea Conrerence, President Roosevelt obtained
the agreement or Marehal Stalin and Prime Minister Churehill
that the San Franeisoo Con erence should orovide for the
stablishment

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
establishment ef am internatiomal trusteeship system.
Subsequently, the Delegatioms of the United States at the
San Francisee Conference and at the meetings of the Pre-
paratory Commission and the General Assembly have given ample
testimony, if any were needed, of the profound and eem-
tinuing conoern of this Government for the well-being of
the several hundreds of milllons of peoples who imhabit
non-self-governing territories.
In preparing this draft trusteeship agreement, the
Government of the United States gave long and careful
study not only to the Charter as a whole and to its
specific provisions for strategio needs in special areas,
but also to the draft agreements for non-strategie arees
recently submitted to the General Assembly by five of
the mandatory powers. This draft trusteeship agreement is
viewed by the Government of the United States as eomforming,
1n substance and in form, with the Charter and as prometing
the interests both of the inhabitants of the 1slands and of
the United Natione. It contains the terms upon which the
United States 1s prepared to administer the Japanese
Mandated Islands as a trust territory.
In afrirmation of historio American polioy and in
fulfillment or the orovisions o the Charter the Prosidont
of the United States mane the collowing announcement on
November 6, 1946:
"The United Statee 1s orepared to place under
trusteeship, with the United Statee as the ad-
ministering authority, the Japanese Mandated Islands
and eny Japanesr islande for which t assumes
responsibilities

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.95)
一8 -
responsibilities as a result of the seeond World
War. In se far as the Japanese Mandated Ialands
are coneerned, this Government is transmitting fer
Information to the other members of the Seeurity
Counell (Australia, Brazll, China, Egypt, Framee,
Mexioo, the Netherlands, Poland, the Umiom of
Soviet Socialist Republies and the United Kimgtem)
and to New Zealand and the Philippines a draft of a
strategic area trusteeship agreement which sets forth
the terms upon which this Govermment 1s prepared to
place those 1slands under trusteeship. At an early
date we plan to submit this draft agreement formally
to the Seourity Council for its approval".
This announcement was made in the belief that the
Government of the United States should take the initiative
in preparing terms of trusteeship for the Japanese Mandated
Islands. These 1slands were entrusted to Japan under
mandate from the League or Nations following the First
world War. Japan failed to observe the terms of the
mandate. In utter d1sregard of the mandate Japan converted
the territory into military bases for eggressive warfare,
contrary to the low of nuti ns, against the United States
and others of the United Nattone. To oust the enemy
fron these ialands t  ni ted State: had to undertake
military oper-tione costly in life and in property.
United States in reoel ing Japonese aggresalon ocoupied,
and i todey in porsession
these lelande.
Thue, Japan
has oeased to exercise any authority in these islands as
areault

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.96)
一4-
a result of the Seeend World War; and all autherity in
the islands is new being exereised by the Uaited States.
The United States has sought the fulfilämemt of
the requirements of Artiole 79 of the Gharter, first, by
tramsmitting coples of a draft trusteeship agreement fer
the Japanese Mandated Islands te all Members of the
United Nations whieh, in the view of the Gevermment of
the United States, have spesial interests in these
islands, and, now, by fermally submitting the draft agree-
ment te the Security Counell for its approval.
The Charter does not attempt to defime what is a
state direetly coneerned. It is the view ef the Uaited
States Government that y the Charter ean apprepriately
44
be interpreted as providing that the'state er states whese
人
assent to a proposed agreement 1s necessary to make it
possible for the territory in question te be plased umder
trusteeahip or to be administered as 1s proposed in the
agreement, should be considered as the state or states
direetly coneerned. That is, the state or states direetly
coneerned can be deemed to be the state or states previous-
ly administering the territory and the state or states
expected to administer the territory under the trusteo-
ship egreement. To extend the meaning of states direetly
concerned to include other interestod statee whose speoial
agreement to the proposed trusteeship is not in faet
necessary, would not only needlessly delay the establishment
of trust territorlee but might in some cases prevent
their establishment altogether.
The United States considers that it is entitled
to submit the proposed draft agresmont without prior
agroemont

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.96)
-  -
agreement by ether states because this territery is new
1n its pessessien and becaase under the propesed trestee-
ship agreememt the United States weuld be the sele ad-
ministering authority. In suggesting that the Uaited
states 1s the only state whose consent is neeesaary as a
cemditien presedent to the submissien of the trusteeship
agreement to the Security Couneil, the Umited States dees
net of sourse mean to suggest that other states should
net, in view of their regienal and world interests, have
a right te have their views carefully considered by the
United States and by the Security Geuneil befere the
trusteeship agresment 1s fimally appreved by the Security
Gounell. In fast, prior to its submissiem to the Security
Gaunell, the United States submitted eopies of the pre-
pesed trusteeship agreement te the ether members ef the
Security Counell and te Now Zealand and the Rapublle ef
the Philippines.
It is not necessary to consider here whether the
failure of the League of Nations prior to the second World
War to oppose the illegal conversion of the mandated
1slands by Japan to her own use and as a base for ag-
gression would not, under international law, give the
Umited States, which ousted the enemy from the islands.
the right to treat the islands in the same manner as mny
enomy territcry cccupled by its sole efforts.
The United
States mim 1s here maineining simply that it is, under
the ciroumstanes heretofore recited, fully entitled to
propose, and to be the sole adminiatering authority under.
a trusteeahip agreement which ensures that this strategie
territory ean never again be used in wuoh a way as to
menaoe the peace of the world
In undertaking

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.89)
-  -
In uadertaking to plase wader trusteeship a territesy
of such great stretegie importanee as these islande, the
Uaited States 1s expressing its confidenee in the Waited
Matiens and in the system of iatermatiemal pease and
seeurity established in the Gharter. Nest of the
atrategieally

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.96)
一6-
strategically impertant areas of the world are at presemt
under the exelusive eentrol or the larger pevers. In pertaemlar
most of the strategieally impertant areas in the Paeirie -
1neluding territories within the eategories which are
expressly referred to in the Charter as eligible for
trusteeship - are not subjeet in any way to intermasiomal
supervision. Nevertheless, the United States dees under-
take to administer this strategio area in ascerdamee with
the proposed trusteeship agreement and in furtheramee ef
international peace and seeurity, and 1s willing to submit
to internatiomal supervision, as provided in the agreement,
the political, economio, social, and educatiomal devele-
ment of the inhabitants of the truat territery.
As the United States Representative to the Becurity
Council will have an opportunity on later oeeasions to
explain the United States draft trusteeship agreememt in
detail, it is necessary at this time merely to emphasise
that the drart agreement amply provides for the attaimment
of the rour basio objeotives or the trusteeship system set
forth in Artiole 76 of the Charter.
In fulfillment of the irat objective - the further-
ance of internationsl peace and security - the United
States proposes, 1n accordance with Article 82 of the
Charter, that the trust territory be designated a
strategio area.
This territory contains about 846 square
miles of land mass and about 48,000 native inhabitants.
Ite indigenous resources are negligible. However, the
trategic nature of the area has long been reoognized.
The expenditure of lives, time, and treasure required to
seize this area from the Jappnese is a measure of its
inherent

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.94)
-7-
inherent strategie impertanse. It is the determimatiem
of the Amerieam peeple that this area shall mever again
be used as a springboard for aggression agataet th
1
United States and other Mombers of the Umited Mations.
S1e
In conformity with the provisions of the Charter for
strategie areas, the trust territory will comtaim bases.
Many atolls in the territory have potential value as base
sites or as anohorages but few sueh sites, however, will
be developed and maintained at present.
No other Goverament need feel any apprehensiom over
the designation of this trust territory as strategie.
The United States, like all other Members of the Umited
Nations, has solemnly undertaken that it shall refraim
from the threat or use of force against the territorial
integrity or political independenee of any state. Moreover.
the United Statee, as administering authority, will, 1m
accordanee with its obligations under Artiole 4 of the
Charter, eneure that this trust territory shall ply its
part in the meintenance of international peace and seeurity.
After the Seourity Council has approved this trusteeship
agreement, ent shen it is reedy to conclude special agreo-
ments for the rovi:ion o prmed rorcee, assistance, and
nollities under Artic?e 43 of the Charter, the United Stater,
in concludinp ch , rpecisl syreement or agreements, will
ive the same consideretion to this ru:t territory ae to
territorief under it: povereignty.
The remeinins three ot jectiver  the trustesship
stem ere am liricd in coneiderable detsil by the draft
agreement.
In articular, rovisions are inoluded which
effeotively guerantee the political, economic, social, and
educational

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
一8 -
edueatiomal advaneement of the imhabitants of the trust
territery.
The fulrillment of these basio objeotives of the
trusteeship system will depend, in this trust territery
as in all others, both upon the good faith of the adminis-
tering authority and upon effeetive supervislon by the
United Nations. The Charter provides for such supervisiem
over strategie areas in only the most general terms. The
United States draft agreement goes beyond the legal require-
ments of the Charter by providing that Articles 87 and 8s -
relating to peperts, petitions, visits, and questiommaires
concerning non-strategio areas - shall be applicable te the
trust territory, even though it is designated as a strategie
area, exeept that the administering authority may determime
the extent of applicability in any areas which may, from time
to time, be specified by the administering authority as
olosed for security reasons. This exception has beem made
in recognition of the faot that an administering authority
of a strategie trust territory should have, in the diseharge
of its responsibilities for the maintenanoe of international
peace and eecurity, the authority necessary to sareguard the
installations establiched ror that puroose. I assure you
that the United States will not exeroise thie suthority in
any irressonsible manner.
It shoul: be ooint d out, moreover, thet th closing
of certain areae for security ourposes relaten only to
the reporta, etitions, visits, and ueationnnires
provided ror in the trusteeship ay tom.
en international
agreement is resched w'th respect to reports, inepeotions,
and

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.95)
and similar rumetioms 1m the field ef disarmament, atemis
energy, or other non-trusteeship matters, the previsiems
of the draft agreement relating to elesed areas will met
prejudice the application of such agreements to the emtire
truet territory.
I commend, therefore, for your consideration and
approvel the United States draft trusteeship agreement
for the Japanese Mandated Ialands. In this draft trustee-
ship agreement the United States Government reaffirms its
historio policles regarding non-selr-governing peoples
and expresses its rull con idence in the international
trusteeship eystem. In the opinlon of my Government this
draft agreement doer not merely rulrill the minimum
requirements of the Charter; it provides a maximum degree
of proteotion for the inhab!t"nts. It is the profound
belier of the Government of the United States and of the
American people that, ir this draft agreement is aporoved
by the Security Couno1l, the administretion of these islands
by the Uni ted Statee will contr1 ute to the rullest possible
extent both to the maintenance  international peace and
seour'ty and to the well-beinp and advancement of the in-
habitants o the islands.
Jamee F. Byrnee
Ial a cou beld to ex lin t ra
asreement in more detail and Ial. ubmit to the Counoil
a commenters wnich interorets erch of its articles. I
auggest

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.89)
-10-
be undertaken by the Geuneil in the informal atmesphere of
sommittee deliberations. Accordingly, I move that whem the
members of the Counoil have coneluded any general statememts
they desire to make, the draft trusteeship agreement be
referred to a committee of the whole for consideratiom and
for a report thereon to the Couno1l.
DA:JFGreen:mbr
15
3A
Jà
FE
EUR
Le
A一
C
U

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.94)
bCTR
A-H - Mr. Gross
IS - Mr. Banoroft
TO
SPA - Mr. Hiss
JA - Mr. Borton
DATE:December 12, 1946
Is - Mr. Blaisdell
Le - Mr. Howard
PROM :
DA - Mr. Green
Capt. Dennison
Col. Giffin
SUBJECT:
Attached hereto 1s the translation of a note
from the Soviet Embassy dated December 7, 1946, in
which the Soviet Government expresses the view that
the question of trusteeship for the Japanese Mandated
Islands and for any Japenese lslands should be
coneidered by the Allied Powers in the peace settle-
ment in regard to Japan.
There is also attached,for consideration at
our next meeting, a proposed new paragraph for
inclusion in the draft atatement by Mr. Herschel Johnson
designed to anticinate the question raised in the
Soviet note.
8
f
0
-1246
Attachments:
1.
From Soviet Embassy,
December 7, 1446.
Dreft Peragraph

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.97)
222x
DEPARTNENT OF STATE
CENTRAL TRANSLATING DIVISION
TRANSLATION
T 18
TO NO.
32045
EMBASSY OF THE
UNION OF SOVIET SOCIALIST REPUBLICS
WASHINGTON, D.C.
December 7, 1946
8ir:
With reference to your note of November 6 last, in
whioh it was communicated that the United States of
America is ready to place under trusteeship the islands
whioh are under Japanese mandate and for whieh the United
States will be the administering authority, I have the
honor to 1nform you of the following:
The Soviet Government considers it necessary to
study the given question and the "Draft Trusteeship
Agreement for the Japanese Mandated Islands" whioh was
presented by the Government of the United States of
America.
The Soviet Government is prepared to take into account
the interests of the. United States of America in conneot-
ion with this question, but at the same time it considers
it necessary to express its vlew that the question of
trusteeship over the ialands formerly under Japanese
mandate, as well as over any Japanese islands, muet be
considered by the Allied Powers in the beace settlement
in regard to Japan.
Accept Sir, the assurenee of sy very high esteem for
(s1gned) F. OREKHOV
inarge d'affairs ad interim
of the USSR in the USA
Mr. Dean Achoson
Acting Seeretary or State
Department of State
Washington

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
Suggested Addition to the Sixth Draft of
the Statement by Mr. Herschel Johnson, to
Replace the First Sentence of the First
Fuil Paragraph on Page 3.
This announcement was made during the opening
weeks of the General Assembly meetings because it was
felt that the Members of the United Nations, which were
beginning their consideration of draft trusteeship
agreements for other mandated territories, were entitled
to know the views of the United States concerning the
Japanese Mandated Islands and the terms upon which the
United States 1s prepared to admintster these 1slands
under trueteeship.
This Government believes that under the inetrument
of surrender of September 2, 1945 in which the Emperor
of Japan and the Japenese Government accepted the
Potsdem Declaration, the placing of the Jananese Mandated
Islands or of any Jepanese 1elands under trusteeship
In accordance with the Charter of the United Nations
does not depend upon, or need to await, the conolusion
of a general peace settlement with Japan.
This Government also believes that the United States
should take the initiative in preparing terms of
trusteeship for the Japanese Mandated Islands. These
1slands were entrusted to Japan ...
DA:JFGreen:mbr
12/12/46

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.88)
AUF
449
LEGA:
JAN
UNITED STATES POLITIC A ADVISER
DEPARTI
FOR JAPAN
RESTRICTED
kyp, Decembor 27, 1946
LoT
No. 776
SPHIAI PHOJE
FEP 3 197
KiN
IVISION
BANC
9.
HPARTMENTOFSIA
UnJECT: English Text of "Custitution of Japan."
DÉPARTENT OF STATE
EORING SERVICES
DIWSTON OF FOREIGN
DEC 271946
The United tates Political Adviser has the honor to
refer to this Mission's de:patch No. 713, November 21, 1946,
with which were transmitted the changes made by the Diet
to the draft constitution, and to enelose six copies of
uallol rext of te "Constitution of Japan."
dl ld
the-1ee
OCD
SPD
Enerosures:
010
as stated
FFR7 1947
OFFIE OF RELLGE
Havy
COLLECTIN  
Aabbey: chk
(480)
1941
4.0
6

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.90)
DCP
UNITED STATES PCLITICAL ADVISER
FCR JAPAII
DCll
Tolyo, Lay 24, 1947.
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 10(1
SU: JECT: Designation of Japunese Government in Cfficial Correspondence.
894.01/5-2447
The United States Tolitica? dviser has t.e honor to enclose copy
1/
of Staff Hemorandum lo. 43 dated Lay 20, 1947, ssued by General Head-
quarters, Supreme Cormander for the Allied Powers and Far East Command,
entitled "Designation of panese Governnent". In effect the memorandum
states that in official correspendence and other locwnents of this
lieadguarters te national overnment of Japan vill hereafter be referred
to as e "apese Govern nt" ind not as te "Laperial Japanese Gov-
criment".
The attention f the Departaent s iavited to the fact that this
is a memorandu of this eadouirters und not  directive to the Japanese
Jovernment. at the suggestion of te Governent Section of Headquarters,
this Mission, as he Diplmtic Section, recomended in a communication
dated y 7, 1947, tt the lovernent Section take necessary action to
effect t e in te lesignation of te Jupanese Government. It was
pointed t t t in the new Const: tatiur. f Japan the term "Iaperial
Jupanese over  t" io stalicusly av led, Lylyine t at the Japanese
themselvee refer to dr te word "perial".
D''A
i m ouncement of ts change in desighation appeared in the
CS/V
day 3 ismues f hetfic Stars und Str es d Nippon Times,
res:c ct vely.
3

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.86)
Enclosure ?. 1to Despatch No. 1061, dated May 24, 1947, from the
United Stales Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Designation of Japanese Government in Cfficial Correspondence".
COPY
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREE CCIMANDER FCR THE ALLIED POWERS
AlD
FAR EAST COLAID
AG 091.1 (17 May 47)Cs
∴PO 500
20 May 1947
STAFF MCRNDUL )
HC43)
(eur )
DESIGLTTL F ALNESS
Effeetive i : ediately, enever the ntional overnment of Japan
is adiressed or referred te in official correspe.dence and other docu-
mente f ty  cadpuartere uster the Suppere lo mnder for the Allied
Powere r he Soader-in-ie te Far Hast So.and, it will be
referret t us "a unese even ent"  net as "Lperial Japanese
Goverrnent."
LLER,
 ner,enerl Staff Corps,
ief of Staff.
R. M.
Relonel, AD,
Geeral.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.95)
Adviser for Japan, subject: "English Text of 'Con
Encl. to Despatch No. 776,
THE CONSTITUTION OF JAPAN
Dec.
1
1946
fr
om
(D
CABINET SECRETARIAT

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.94)
I rejoice that the foundation for the construction of a new Japan has
been laid according to the will of the Japanese people, and hereby sanction
and promulgate the amendments of the Imperial Japanese Constitution
effected following the consultation with the Privy Council and the decision
of the Imperial Diet made in accordance with Article 73 of the said Con-
stitution.
Signed: HIROHITO, Seal of the Emperor
This third day of the eleventh month of the twenty-first year of Showa
(November 3, 1946)
Countersigned :
Prime Minister and concurrently
Minister for Foreign Affairs
YOSHHDA Shigeru
Minister of State
Baron SHDEHARA Kijuro
Minister of Justice
KIMURA Tokutaro
Minister for Home Atfairs
OMURA Seichi
Minister of Education
TANAKA Kotaro
Minister of Agriculture and Forestry
WADA Hiroo
Minister of State
SAITO Takao
Minister of Communications
HITOTSUMATSU Sadavoshi
Mintster of Conmmerce and Indust.
HOSHUIMA Nito
Mhm ter of Welfare
KAWAI Yoshinan
Mimister of State
UEHARA Etsujiro
Mrooster of Tromsportatron
HIRNTSU KA Tsunejin
Miie ter of Finamce
ISHIRASHI Tanzan
Mo ser  State
KAN AMORI Tokuro
Mu der Dte
Z1.N L emosuke

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.94)
The Constitution of Japan
We, the Japanese people, actung through our duly clected representatives
in the Nattonal Diet, determined that we shall secure for ourselves and our
posterity the frunts of peaceful cooperation with all nations and the blessings
of liberty throughout this land, and resolved that never again shall we be
visited with the horrors of war through the action of government, do pro-
claim that sovereign power resides with the people and do firmly establish
this Constitution. Government is a sacred trust of the people, the authority
for which is derived from the people, the powers of which are exercised by
the representatives of the people, and the benefits of which are enjoyed by
the people. This is a universal principle of mankind upon which this
Constitution is founded. We reject and revoke all constitutions, laws,
ordinances, and rescripts in contlet herewith.
We, the Japanese people, desre peace for all time and are deeply
cons ious of the hugh ideals controlling human relationship, and we have
determined to preserve our security and existence, trusting in the justice and
futh of the peace-loving peoples of the world. We desire to occupy an
honored place im an nternational society striving for the preservation of
peace, and the bamshment of tyranny and slavery, oppression and intolerance
for all time from the caith. We recognize that all peoples of the world
have the right to live in peace, free trom fear and want.
We be hese that no maton is to poersble to tself atone, but that laws ot
pobmead morality are omversad: and thad obedhence to sueh laws is ncumbent
upon adl natons who would sustan dheur own soveregnty and pustity then
ren retahonshup with other  
We the lapanese people, pledee ot r omat bhoed tho tese
  h

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.94)
CHAPTER I. THE EMPEROR
Article 1. The Emperor shall be the symbol of the State and of the
unity of the people, deriving his position from the will of the people with
whom resides sovereign power.
Article 2. The Imperial 'Throne shall be dynastic and succeeded to
in accordance with the Imperial House Law passed by the Diet.
Artiele 3. The advice and approval of the Cabinet shall be required
for all acts of the Emperor in matters of state, and the Cabinet shall be
responsible therefor.
Article 4. The Emperor shall perform only such acts in matters of
state as are provided for in this Constitution and he shall not have powers
related to government.
The Emperor may delegate the performance of his acts in matters of
tate as may be provided by law.
Artiele 5. When, in accordance with the Imperial House Law, a
Regency is established, the Regent shall perform his acts in matters of state
in the Emperor's name. In this case, paragraph one of the preceding
article will be appheable.
Article 6. The Emperor shall appoint the Prime Minister as desig-
nated by the Diet.
The Emperor shall appoint the Chief Judge of the Supreme Court as
designated by the Cabinet.
Artiele 7. The Emperor, with the adyice and approval of the Cabmet,
hall perform the following acts in matters of state on behalf of the peophe
Promulgation of amendments of the constutution, laws, cabint!
orders and treaties.
Convocation of the Diet.
Dressolution of the House ot Representatives
Pro lamation ot general clectton of members ot the Diet.
Ateostatuon ot the appontment and dismmseal o Mhosters 
State aed other othesads as provuded tor br les. od ot null
pewet edentals ot Ambasador ad Nooster
erocerl a spl

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.93)
Attestation of instruments of ratification and other diplomatic
documents as provided for by law.
Receiving foreign ambassadors and ministers.
Performance of ceremonial functions.
Article 8. No property can be given to, or reccived by, the Imperial
House, nor cat any gifts be made therefrom, without the authorization of
the liet.
CHAPTER II. RENUNCIATION OF WAR
Article 9. Aspiring sincerely to an international peace based on
justice and order, the Japanese people forever renounce war as a sovereign
right of the nation and the threat or use of force as means of settling
international disputes.
In order to accomplish the aim of the preceding paragraph, land, sea,
and air forces, as well as other war potential, will never be maintained.
The right of belligereney of the state will not be recognized.
CHAPTER III. RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PEOPLE
Artiele 10. The condhtions necessary for being a Japanese national
shal' be determined by law.
Article 11. The people shall not be prevented from enjoy ng any of
the tundamental human rights. 'These fundamental human rights guaranteed
to the people by this Constitution shall be conferred upon the people of
the and toture penerations as eternal and inviolate rights.
Artiele 12. The freedoms and rights guaranteed to the people by this
Cos ntutron shall be maintained by the constant endeavor of the poople.
wh sa retraum tromm any abuse ot these treedoms and rights nd shall
abwm be re poonsibde for utbhzime themm for the pubhre welfare
Artiele 13. lt ot the people shall be respe red as nde ado. 1ten
buh
Article 14
111
1.1

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.95)
No privilege shall accompany any award ot honor, decoration or any
distinction, nor shall any such award be valid beyond the lifetime of the
individual who now holds or hereafter may receive it.
Artiele 15. The people have the inalienable right to choose their
publie officials and to dismiss them.
All public officials are servants of the whole community and not of
any group thereof.
Universal adult sutirage is guaranteed with regard to the election of
pubhe officials.
In all elections, s crecy of the ballot shall not be violated. A voter
shall not be answerable, publicly or privately, for the choice he has made.
Article 16. Every person shall have the right of peaceful petition for
the redress of damage, for the removal of public officials, for the enactment,
repeal or amendment of laws, ordinances or regulations and for other
matters; nor shall any person be in any way discriminated against for
sponsoring such a petition.
Article 17. Every person may sue for redress as provided by law from
the State or a public entity, in case he has suffered damage through illegal
aet of any public otficial.
Article 18. No person shall be held in bondage of any kind. In-
volantary servitude, except as punishment for crime, is prohibited.
Article 19. Freedom of thought and conscience shall not be violated.
Article 20. Freedom of religion is guaranteed to all. No religious
organization shall receive any privileges from the State, nor exercise any
political autbonty.
No person shall be compelled to take part in any religious act, cele-
bration, ite on practice.
The State and its organs shall refram trom religious education or any
other religious activity
Article 21. Freedom ot assembly and association as well a peech,
pres and all other torms of expressten are guaranteed.
So c cnsorshop shell be mamtaoned, nor shall the secreey of any mmests
coe.mon be vrohated
Article 22. 1ser persor shah have mretom to theose and change
hss  to oe hsp m the exe that it does not

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.95)
Freedom of all persons to move to a foreign country and to divest
thenselves of their nationality shall be inviolate.
Article 23. Academic freedom is guaranteed.
Article 24. Marriage shall be based only on the mutual consent of
both sexes and it shall be maintained through mutual coopertion with
the equal rights of husband and wife as a basis.
With regard to choice of spouse, property rights, inheritance, choice
of domicile, divorce and other matters pertaining to marriage and the family,
laws shall be enacted from the standpoint of individual dignity and the
essential equality of the sexes.
Article 25. All people shall have the right to maintain the minimum
standards of wholesome and cultured living.
In all spheres of life, the State shall use its endeavors for the pro-
motion and extension of social welfare and security, and of public health.
Article 26. All people shall have the right to receive an equal educa-
tion correspondent to their ability, as provided by law.
All people shall be obligated to have all boys and girls under their
protection receive ordinary education as provided for by law. Such com-
pulsory education shall be free.
Article 27. All people shall have the right and the obligation to work.
Standards for wages, hours, rest and other working conditions shall be
fixed by law.
Children shall not be exploited.
Article 28. The right of workers to organize and to bargain and act
collectively is guaranteed.
Artiele 29. The right to own or to hold property is inviolable.
Property rights shall be detined hy law, in conformity with the puble
weltare
Povate properte meay be taken tor pubhe o upon pust compensatton
Artiede 30. The poople sball be hable to te atem as provided by law
Artiele 31. No person shsll be deprived ot hte or hberty, nor ball
ah pmadpo  ny to procedure
Ade
11
the

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.88)
Article 33. No person shall be apprehended except upon warrant
issued by  competent judicial otficer which specities the offense with
whith the person is charged, unless he is apprehended, the offense being
cimmtted.
Article 34. No person shall be arreste1 or detained without being at
onee ntormed of the charges against him or without the immediate pri-
vilege ot counsel; nor shall he be detained without adequate cause; and
upon demand of any person such cause must be immediately shown in
open court in his presence and the presence of his counsel.
Artiele 35. 'The right of all persons to be secure in their homes,
papers and etlects against entries, searches and seizures shall not be im-
pured extept upon warrant issued for adequate cause and particularly
descnbing the place to be searched and things to be seized, or except as
provoded by Artele 33.
Each search or seizure shall be made upon separate warrant issued
by a cormpetent pudicial officer.
Article 36. The intliction of torture by any publhe otficer and crue
p unishme nt. ate absolutely forbidden.
Article 37. In all criminal cases the acc used shall cnjoy the right to
a speedy and public trial by an impartial tribunal.
He shal be permitted full opportumity to examne all witnesses, and
he shall have the night ot comopubsers process tor obtaumnmng witmesses on
his behadt at pubhe expense
An l utmee the aeor ed shall bave the assistance of competent coonsel
whho st t t the accused is unable to sec ure the satne be his own ettoats.
I assignd to his use by the State
Article 38. No persen soall be pompelled to tesnts ueamer tmomselt
Coore seomomude under pompudsrom torture or threat on ater prodomged
mest setont ball mor be bed n evidem
person padl te convend pomoshed m cases whee mre omdy proot
hne
Artiele o No person sthedl be hend m be m a
 mew w  en 

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.97)
CHAPTER IV. THE DIET
Article 41. The Diet shall be the highest organ of state power, and
shall be the sole law-making organ of the State.
Article 42. The Diet shall consist of two Houses, namely the House
of Representatives and the House of Councillors.
Article 43. Both Houses shall consist of elected members, represen-
tative of all the people.
The number of the members of each House shall be fixed by law.
Article 44. The qualifications of members of both Houses and their
electors shall be fixed by law. However, there shall be no discrimination
because of race, creed, sex, social status, family origin, education, property
or income.
Article 45. The term of office of members of the House of Repre-
sentatives shall be four years. However, the term shall be terminated
before the full term is up in case the House of Representatives is dissolved.
Article 46. The term of office of members of the House of Councillors
hall be six years, and election for half the members shall take place every
three years.
Article 47. Electoral districts, method of voting and other matters
pertaining to the method of election of members of both Houses shall be
fixed by law.
Article 48. No person shall be permitted to be a member of both
Houses simultaneously.
Article 49. Members of both Houses shall receive appropriate annual
payment from the national treasury in accordance with law.
Artiele 50. Except in cases provided by law, members of both
Houses shall be exempt from apprehension while the Diet is in session,
and any members apprehended before the opening of the session shall be
freed during the term of the session upon demand of the House.
Artiele 51. Members of both Houses shall not be held liable outside
the House tor speeches, debates or votes cast inside the House.
Article 52. An ondmary sesston ot the Diet shall be onvoked once
prT Ve
Article 53. The Cad m: noary detemmahe to convoke extraondhitary
sestons ot the Diet When a quarter on more ot the totad mermbers ot

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.96)
cither House makes the demand, the Cabinet must determine on such
convocation.
Article 54. When the House of Representatives is dissolved, there
must be a general election of members of the House of Representatives
within forty (40) days from the date of di-solution, and the Diet must be
(onvoked within thirty (30) days from the date of the election.
When the House of Representatives is dissolved, the House of
Councillors is closed at the same time. However, the Cabinet may in time
of national emergency convoke the House of Councillors in emergency
session.
Measures taken at such session as mentioned in the proviso of the
preceding paragraph shall be provisional and shall become null and void
unless agreed to by the House of Representatives within a period of ten
(10) days after the opening of the next session of the Diet.
Article 55. Each House shall judge disputes related to qualifications
of its members. However, in order to deny a seat to any member, it is
necessary to pass a resolution by a majority of two-thirds or more of the
members present.
Article 56. Business cannot be transacted in either House unless
ne-third or more of total membership is present.
All matters shall be decided, in each House, by a majority of those
present, except as elsewhere provided in the Constitution, and in case of a
tie, the presiding oficer shall decide the issue.
Article 57. Dehiberation in each House shall be public. However,
a secret mecting may be held where a majority of two-thirds or more of
those members present passes a resolution therefor.
Each House shall keep a record of proceedings. This record shall be
published and given general circulation, excepting such parts of proweedings
of secret session as may be deemed to require secrecy.
Upon demand of one-fifth or more ot the members present, votes ot
the members on any matter shall be reconded in the minotes
Article 58. Fach House shall seleo ts own presndent mnd er
Each House shall establhsh t rudes pertammg to preetme po teer s
amd motermed is phoe. and may pumsh members tor doode ootunt
hoe e to exped a meber ap t

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.95)
of those members present must pass a resolution thereon.
Article 59. A bill becomes a law on passage by both Houses, except
as otherwise provided by the Constitution.
A bill which is passed by the House of Representatives, and upon
which the House of Councillors makes a decision different from that of
the House of Representatives, becomes a law when passed a second time
by the House of Representatives by a majority of two-thirds or more of
the members present.
The provision of the preceding paragraph does not preclude the House
of Representatives from calling for the meeting of a joint committee of
both Houses, provided for by law.
Failure by the House of Councillors to take final action within sixty
(60) days after receipt of a bill passed by the House of Representatives,
time in recess excepted, may be determined by the House of Represen-
tatives to constitute a rejection of the sand bill by the House of Councillors.
Article 60. 'The budget must first be submitted to the House of
Representatives.
Upon consideration of the budget, when the House of Councillors
makes a decision difterent from that of the House of Representatives, and
when no agrt ement can be reached even through a joint committee of both
Houses, provided for by law, or in the case of failure by the House of
Counillors to take final action within thirty (30) days, the period of recess
excluded, after the receipt of the budget passed by the House of Re
presentatives, the decision of the House of Representatives shall be the
deciston of the Dict.
Article 61. The second paragraph of the preceding article applie
also to the Diet approval requited tor the conclusion of treaties
Article 62. Lachh House mmay conduct mvestigations in relation t
goermment, amd may demand the presemee amnd restrmone of wotmesses
and the productron ot records
Artiele o3. The Promme Mhtoster aed other Mhmsters ot State moay. 
ar thte. appear m ether House tor the porpose ot speakime on tulls
aness  wherher the e membett the hose They must
Aree t1 shall n

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.94)
the members of both Houses for the purpose of trying those judge
against whom removal proceedings have been instituted.
Matters relating to impeachment shall be provided by law.
CHAPTER V. THE CABINET
Article 65. Executive power shall be vested in the Cabinet.
Article 66. 'The Cabinet shall consist of the Prime Minister, who
shall be its head, and other Ministers of State, as provided for by law.
'The Prime Minister and other Ministers of State must be civilians.
The Cabinet, in the exercise of executive power, shall be collectively
responsible to the Diet.
Article 67. The Prime Minister shall be designated from among the
members of the Diet by a resolution of the Diet. This designation shall
precede all other business.
If the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors disagree
and if no agreement can be reached even through a joint committee of both
Houses, provided for by law, or the House of Councillors fails to make
designation within ten (10) days, exclusive of the period of recess, after the
House of Representatives has made designation, the decision of the House
of Representatives shall be the decision of the Diet.
Article 68. 'The Prime Minister shall appoint the Ministers of State.
However, a majority of their number must be chosen from among the
members of the Diet.
The Prime Minister may remove the Ministers of State as he chooses.
Article 69. If the House of Representatives passes a non-confidence
resohution, or rejects a confidence resolution, the Cabinet shall resign en
tmasse, unles the House ot Representatives is dissolved within ten (10)
1.115
Artiele 70. When there is A vseaney in the post ot Prime Mimister.
or npon the  ist convecaion ot the Diet after a general election of members
4 the House ot Representatives, the Cabunet shall resign cn masse
Article 71 In the case mentoned im the nwo preceding artueles.
C conte tul the ome when ane Prme
pnted
Aele 72Phe Pe e nm hee 
1

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.97)
bills, reports on general national affairs and foreign relations to the Diet
and exercises control and supervision over various administrative branches.
Article 73. The Cabinet, in addition to other general administrative
functions, shall perform the following functions:
Administer the law faithfully; conduct affairs of state.
Manage foreign affairs.
Conclude treaties. However, it shall obtain prior or, depend-
ing on circumstances, subsequent approval of the Diet.
Administer the civil service, in accordance with standards es-
tablished by law.
Prepare the budget, and present it to the Diet.
Enact cabinet orders in order to execute the provisions of this Con
stitution and of the law. However, it cannot include penal pro-
visions in such cabinet orders unless authorized by such law.
Decide on general amnesty, special amnesty, commutation of pun-
ishment, reprieve, and restoration of rights.
Article 74. All laws and cabinet orders shall be signed by the
competent Minister of State and countersigned by the Prime Minister.
Article 75. The Ministers of State, during their tenure of office,
shall not be subject to legal action without the consent of the Prime
Minister. However, the right to take that action is not impaired hereby.
CHAPTER VI. JUDICIARY
Article 76. The whole judicial power is vested in a Supreme Court
and in such inferior courts as are established by law.
No extraordinary tribunal shall be established, nor shail any organ
or agency of the Executive be given final judicial power.
All judges shall be independent in the exercise of theu cot serence and
shall be bound only by this Constitution and the laws.
Article 77. The Supreme Court is vested with the rule-making power
under which it determines the rules of procedure and of practice, and of
matters relating to attorneys, the nternal disciphine of the courts and the
ohomostaoon of pudhcial atíaurs.
Pubhe procurators shall be subyeet to the ruie making power ot the
!

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.92)
The Supreine Court may delegate the power to make rules for inferior
courts to such courts.
Article 78. Judges shall not be removed except by public impeach-
ment unless judicially declared mentally or physically incompetent to
perform official duties. No disciplinary action against judges shall be
adm nistered by any executive organ or agency.
Article 79. The Supreme Court shall consist of a Chief Judge and
such number of judges as may be determined by law; all such judges
excepting the Chief Judge shall be appointed by the Cabinet.
The appointment of the judges of the Supreme Court shail be
reviewed by the people at the first general election of members of the
House of Representatives following their appointment, and shall be reviewed
again at the first general election of members of the House of Represen-
tatives after a lapse of ten (10) years, and in the same manner thereafter.
In cases mentioned in the foregoing paragraph, when the majority of
the voters favors the dismissal of a judge, he shall be dismissed.
Matters pertaining to review shall be preseribed by law.
The judges of the Supreme Court shall be retired upon the attainment
of the age as fixed by law.
All such judges shall receive, at regular stated intervals, adequate
ompensation which shall not be de reased during their terms of oflice.
Article 80. The judges of the inferior courts shall be appointed by
the Cabinet fron a list of persons nominated by the Supreme Court. All
such judges shall hold otfice for a term of ten (10) years with privilege
of reappointment, provided that they shall be retired upon the attainment
of the age as fixed by law.
The judges of the inferior courts shall reccive, at regular stated nter
vabs, a lequate compensatton which shall not be decreased during then
terms of tfie
Artele 81. The Suprenme Court is the out t Iest resort with
power termmme the corstitutromadhey ot aty tw. perudaton or
11
Artiele 82. pe shall Le obe or d prde to coed pbdeh
 adeespb
1111

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.95)
of people as guaranteed in Chapter 111 of this Constitution are in question
shall always be conducted publicly.
CHAPTER VII. FINANCE
Article 83. The power to admimister national finances shall be exer-
cised as the Diet shall determine.
Article 84. No new taxes shall be imposed or existing ones modified
except by law or under such conditions as law may prescribe.
Article 85. No money shall be expended, nor shall the State obligate
itself, except as authorized by the Diet.
Article 86. The Cabinet shall prepare and submit to the Diet for
its consideration and decision a budget for each fiscal year.
Article 87. In order to provide for unforeseen deficiencies in the
budget, a reserve fund may be authorized by the Diet to be expended
upon the responsibility of the Cabinet.
The Cabinet must get subsequent approval of the Diet for all pay-
ments thom the reserve fund.
Article 88. All property of the Imperial Household shall belong,to
the State All expenses of the Imperial Household shall be appropriated
by the Diet in the budget.
Artiele 89. No public money or other property shall be expended or
appropriated for the use, benetit or maintenance of any religious nstitution
or association, or for any charitable, educational or benevolent cnterprises
not under the control of publie authority.
Artiele 90. Final accounts of the expenditures and revenues of the
State shall be audited annually by a Board of Audit and submitted by the
Cabinet to the Diet, together with the statement of idt, durne the tiseal
vear untnediately tollowing the period covered
The orgamzatton and competeney of the Board ot Audt shad to
mmmed by law
Article 91. At regula mtervabs and at least mmman  1 abnet
I toepot to the Dret and the peopde on the state ot maohed tmmances.
11

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.94)
CHAPTER VIII. LOCAL SELF-GOVERNMENT
Article 92. Regulations concerning organization and operations of
local public entities shall be fixed by law in accordance with the principle
of local autonomy.
Article 93. The local public entities shall establish assemblies as
their deliberative organs, in accordance with law.
The chief executive officers of all local public entities, the members
of their assemblies, and such other local officials as may be determined
by law shall be elected by direct popular vote within their several com-
munities.
Article 94. Local public entities shall have the right to manage their
property, affairs and administration and to enact their own regulations
within law.
Article 95. A special law, applicable only to one local public entity,
cannot be enacted by the Diet without the consent of the majority of the
voters of the local public entity concerneo, obtained in accordance with law.
CHAPTER IX. AMENDMENTS
Article 96. Amendments to this Constitution shall be initiated by the
Diet, through a concurring vote of two-thinds or more of all the members on
cach Honse and shall thereupon be submitted to the people for ratitication,
which shall reqmre the atfirmative vote of a majority of all votes cast
thereon. at a special rete rendhun or at such clection as the Dtet shall
peit
Soor dee oee when se patthed shadl mmometedhately be promudgated by dhe
mpeter uon rhe mome ot the peopde, o aon ntegral part of this Constitution
CHAPTER X. SU PREME LAW
Artiele 7  tomeborean sorat ophts be thos Const totm
p mot the e odd ude

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.94)
Article 98. This Constitution shall be the supreme law of the nation
and no law, ordinance, imperial rescript or other act of government, or part
thereof, contrary to the provisions hereof, shall have legal force or validity.
The treaties concluded by Japan and established laws of nations shall
be faithfully observed.
Article 99. 'The Emperor or the Regent as well as Ministers of State,
members of the Diet, judges, and all other public officials have the obligation
to respect and uphold this Constitution.
CHAPTER XI. SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
Article 100. This Constitution shall be enforced as from the day
when the period of six months will have elapsed counting from the day
of its promulgation.
The enactment of laws necessary for the enforcement of this Con-
titution, the election of members of the House of Councillors and the
procedure for the convocation of the Diet and other preparatory procedures
necessary for the enforcement of this Constitution may be executed before
the day prescribed in the preceding paragraph.
Article 101. If the House of Councillors is not constituted before
the effective date of this Constitution, the House of Representatives shall
function as the Diet until such time as the House of Councillors shall be
constitute.
Artiele 102. The term of office for half the members of the House
of Councllors serving in the first term under this Constitution shall be
three vears Members falling under this category shall be determined in
crondante with law.
Artiele 103. The Mimisters or State, members of the Houss of Re
ose s ntatreres and pudges in otfice on the citective date of this Constitution
snd all other pubhe otbeials who orcupy positions coresponding to such
mroe e rogonzed be thos uton shall mot forfent men pst
con contormatt adl on secoter of the enforeemment of thns Consttoutron mndes
e rwse speehed by laew When oseser sueessor ate che tel o
pnte. under the pros   t Consobmom ther sradl toret he

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.96)
LO NOT DETACH THIS FORN.
FILE
NO.
R EC OR D
C O P Y
894.01/8-147
THE ATTACHED COPY CF A DESPATCH HAS BEEN DESIG-
NATED THE LECCRD COPY TO L EPLACE THE CFIGINAL ACTION
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETUL ED T THE CENTRAL EECOLDS
BY THE ACTION OFFICE.
DESP
THIS COPY MUST BE LETURNED TO DC/R FOF FILING.
.1208 FROM TOKYO

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
THE POLITICAL ADVISER FOR JAPAN
AUG 20 194
Tokyo, August 1, 1947
.cc'
UNCLASSIFIED
No. 1208
SUBJECT: Forwarding Memorandum Regarding Status Under
SCAPIN 550 of Tanzan Ishibash1.
The Political Adviser for Japan has the honor to
forward herewith five corles of a memorandum dated April 30,
1947 prepared in the Government Section of this Headquarters
regarding the record of Tanzan ISHIBASHI, former Managing
Director, Chief Editor, and President of the Oriental
十九级
Economist and more recently Minister of Finance in the
Japanese Government.
The memorandum reviews the record of Mr. Ishibashi
0
and reaches the conclusion that he should be removed from
putlic office ard excluded from government service as an
undestratle persen within the meaning of parerrarh 3,
147
CaterY G, Append A of SCAPIN SO.
Enc:
Fivelesemora
ia1 Tarz
SCALIN
DCBe

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.85)
LO NOT DETACH THIS FORN.
i
NO.
R EC OR D
C O P Y
894.0
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH HLAS BEEN DESIG-
CE
N TED THE L EC RD COPY TO RETLACE THE CFIGINAL ACTION
S
COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETULTLED TO THE CENTRAL RECOLDS
(N
BY THE ACTION OLFICE.
47
THIS COPY MUCT BE L ETURNED TO DC/A FOP FILING.
FRCA TCKYC
Tm
C
门

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.88)
OCD
UNITED 3TATY P LITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
DEC 5
Tokyo, November 15, 1949
UNCIABSLFIED
Dck
No. 1390
SUBJECT: Rules Established by the House of Councillors.
?0
In
1
The Acting tolitical Adviser las tho honor to enclose five
copios of a pamphlet detud Rovanber ?, 194? issuod by the Govern-
mont ection of tuia Hei uerters, containing  tralalation of
the ruies cf the House of Councillors of the Je tuese Diet,
adojtoc by tho Rouso on suno , 4.
0
Bnclosure:
11-1347
Five copios of e panplet,
November , 1947, cortein1
a trenoleti f ru:e  the
House f Cucor
RHBush

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.95)
DCD
FOR JAPAN
DalR
1948
DEPARIMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, Japan, February 24, 1948.
No. 118
CONFIDENTIAL (For Department Use Only)
CEPARTMENT OF STATE
RECEVED
Subjeet: Policy of New Ashida Government.
JUN30S
DIVISION CF BIOGRAPIC
工
POCATION
The Honorable
The Seoretary of State,
Washington.
Siry
I have the honor to report that Prime Minister-Designate ASHIDA
Hiteshi, at his own request, informally called upon me today in my
894.01/2-2448
capasity as Chief of the Diplomatic Section, General Heedquarters,
Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers, with a view to apprising me
of the policies which he hopes to pursue after having formed a Cabinet.
Dr. Ashida stated that he had today called upon General MacArthur and
subsequently upon Brigadier General Courtney Whitney, Chief of the
Government Section, and was assured both by General MacArthur and by
General Whitney of their support. He stated that his relations with
the Government Section had always been most cordial and that he has
never experienced any difficulties from that quarter.
In discussing the question of forming his Cabinet, Dr. Ashida
stated that he does not anticipate any particular diffioulty in this
regard in view of the support of the so-called left-wing Socialists
who, he said, are wholeheartedly in favor of the new Cabinet. It was
Dr. Ashida's impression that the leaders of the left wing are chiefly
concerned wdith being allocated important posts in the Cabinet. He
said that the present propaganda whioh is being ciroulated by certain
Socialist left-wing elements is merely to "cover up" their rather con-
tradiotory action in having forced the resignation of the Katayama
Cabinet and now agreeing to support a new coalition Cabinet under the
leadership of the Democratic Party.
CS/
As a matter of int erest, there is enclosed copy of a statement
which Dr. Ashida said he read to General MacArthur today. The state
ment purports to contain the chief policies which dll be followed by
A
the new Cabinet. These policies are summarized as follows: (1) to
build up a now Japan worthy of world trust; (2) to enhance the demo-
cratization process and social stability; and (3) to push economic
reconstruction.
Of particular interest is the explanation contained under the
X7
heading of economic reconstruction. It is stated therein that
priority will be given to key industries and "the Government will be
prepared to take over control of such industries in case of necessity".
DPARTMENT UT
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.93)
Pobruary 24, 1948.
CCHPTNITIAL
-2-
It should alse be neted that Dr.Ashida has deelared seppert fer all
Laber ergmisstiems of mederate tendemsy, thst he is of the belief
that "cemmism and extreme pelitical views are inimieal te the
healthy grewth of demeoreay", and that "firm steps will be takem to
combat" Red elements.
Dr. Ashida also stated that for the time being he expeste eem-
currently to hold the Foredgn Minister's Pertfelioe in view of the
difficulty which he foresees in seleeting an individual of maffisiemt
experience suitable for this post. He stressed that his chief aim
will be to cooperate wholeheartedly with the aime of the Occupetiem
and with American national policies vis-&-vis Japem, but added that
it would be wnrealistic for any Government to aot otherwise.
Respectfully yours,
.Beace
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Statement by Dr. ASHIDA Hitoshi.
Original and ozalid to Department.
801/800
WJSebald/blc
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.98)
CONFIDENTIAL (For Departaent Use Only) Enelosure to Despateh No. 118,
dated Fobruary 2h, 1948, frem
the Offiee of the Umited States
Politieal Adviser fer Japan,
Tokyo, on the subjest "Peliey
of New Ashida Govermmest".
(COPY)
STATEMENT READ BY DR. ASHIDA HiTOsh1 TO GENERAL MaGARTHUR ON
FEBRUARY 24, 1948
Having been given the mandate to form a new cabinet, by virtue
of the decision taken by the Diet, I avail myself of this oppertunity
to seek Your Exwellency's esteemed and valued views on the matter and
at the same time to submit an outline of what I believe to be most
vital policies of the Government.
In view of the situations confronting us at present, both at home
and abroad, I sincerely believe that there is no alternative for me but
to carry out a firm "middle of the road" policy. To save Japan, I 
fully determined to fight against both axtremes, the rightists and
leftists, and in organising the new cabinet this will be my fundamental
polioy.
I  confident that this will be possible becanse of the support
assured me by the Social Democratic Party, the People's Cooperative
Party and the Democratic Party as well as by the support I m expeet-
ing to obtain from the so-called leftist elements of the Liberal Party.
However, in order to successfully carry out my task, to bring
about a cabinet which will truely reflect the will of the people and
which will effectively combat the various difficulties that beset this
nation, the full support of the Supreme Commander for the Allied
Powers is the foremost and most important requisite, for without such
assurance and help, no one can hope to succeed.
The most vital policies of the new Government are as follows:
1) To build up a New Japan worthy of world trust;
Utmost efforts will be made to faithfully carry out our
responsibilities as enumerated in the Potsdam Declaration.
Every cooperation and aid will be offered toward successful
accomplishment of the Occupation aims.
2) To enhance democratization process and social stability;
Since I am of the belief that Communism and extreme political
views are inimical to the healthy growth of denocracy and also in view
of the fact that Red elements are exerting deteriorate influences smong
Japanese labour circles at present, leading to disruption of reconstruc-
tion efforts, firm steps will be taken to combat them.
Vigorous measures to purify political circles are contemplated
and revision of the Election Law is planned.
The Government will take the lead in efforts to thoroughly
diffuse democratic principles among the people.
3) To push economic reconstruction;
Determined
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.96)
Ench to
Telge's 118,
Fobreary 24, 1948.
CORIDDTIAL
-2-
Determined war against inflation will be lawmched. As eme
means, all-out efforts will be contimwed toward imcreesed predestiem.
Priority will be givem to key industries and the Govermmemt will
be prepared to take over control of such industries in case of
neceesity.
Every encouragement will be given to small and medium-sised manu-
facturers in order to stimulate export trade.
To encourage and promote the working will of the people in order
to assare industrial recovery only rational administrative adjustments
are contemplated.
As to the labour problems, which require tactful handling in view
of the fast that the working class is mow definitely a political power,
I am confident that the new cabinet will be able to secure, in coopere-
tion with the Social Democratic Party, the support of all the labor
organisations of moderate tendency.
Though the above is a very brief and sketehy version of my cen-
victions regarding the course which the new cabinet should take, it
is nevertheless presented to you in all sincerity and soed faith with
determination to carry them through to the best of my abilities in the
event the reins of government are entrusted to me.
Your Excellency, on the brink of my formal acceptance of the heavy
responsibility, I wish to promise to you my utmost efforts and coopere-
tion for the successful oontinuation of your task in Japan.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.89)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
K
hide stetes poliigal
No. 269
MAY 804048
1R
UNCLASS IFIED
DEPARTE ST8
SUBJmoT: Prefectural Cenferemees om Loeal Aatemomy Law (Chihejiehibe).
TATE
S
10
E2
The sematary of state,
115
ington.
FACILI
MAK
81r:
894.01/5-448
paperé prepered by the Leeal Gevermmomt Division, Geversment Seetien,
Gemeral Headquarters, Supreme Cemmander fer the Allied Pewers, eem-
eerming the Loeal Autonomy Law (Chikejichike) :
1. Represemtative Govermment
2. Powers and Respemsibilities of the offiee
of Governor.
3. Powers and Respoasibilities of the Legislative
1F
Body.
4. Administration, Funotions and Responsibilities.
5. The Committee System ef the Local Publio Bodies.
FC
A team of officials from the Local Gevermmemt Divisiem of this
0.D
Headquartere is cenductimg a twe days conferemee in eaeh ef the Japa-
mese prefeetures betweem mew aud June, at whieh these pepers will be
presented and discussed in order to encourage the Japenese te partici-
pate in loeal gowerament to a greater extent than befere. Mr. C. G.
PR
TILToN, Chief of the Local Govermment Division stated that the idee first
occurred to him when he was writing the Army mamual on Japamese govern-
ment during the war. He said that the papers were largaly writtem by
him.
The first of the inatitutes was held im Sendai, Miyagi prefocture
March 19 and 18 and the seoond 1n Ibaraki Profeoture on Mareh 31 and
April 1. The participeuts, other thas indiwiduals from this Headquarters,
were prefecturel mseemblymem, the govermor, his secretariat and depart-
ment heade, prominent citizens, and educators.
lhe five papere are vusmarized below:
Representative Cevermmeat by Mr. Tilton.
Demooratic Goverument is one in whiob men and women
organize themselves ms sovereign end threugh elected
representatiwes attain their goals. The Japamese Con-
stitution is ome of the most democratic in the world.
FILHD
The Local Autonomy Law implomemts the Comstitution by
grantimg direct popular alection of local officials and
recoguizimg the right of local commumities to mamage
C2
their own property and affairs. Local goveroment is
5
the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.93)
UNCLASSIFIED
Tokye's mo. 859
May 4, 1948
-2-
the strengest cheek en wambelesome comeentratien of
metienal power. Citisens mew have powerful metheds
of direot relatien with their gevermmems efficials
sueh as the pewer of recall.
The abelition of the peraicious Temari Qumi
aystem, the basic wait of some tem fomlfes Toh
served the matiemal severment as a meens fer
exerting autocratic contrel ef the people, in jaau-
ary 194? raleased the Japamese people frem iavelun-
tary servitude. All people ef Japan will have to
strive hard for the suscess of represemtative sovern-
ment. Wemen should come forward to contribute.
Every Japasese must realise that te afferd the
services of demeereey will mesessitete revemees.
New, fruitful seurees mast be feumd. The demeeratic
form of severmmemt partieularly in the Uaited states
has mmde iméestrial and csomemie progress pessible.
Witmess thet the Umited states feeds and helps resen-
struet the vietims of agresser natiome and the very agress-
ore themeelves.
2. Powers and Respensibilities of the offiee of
Govermer by Mr. Miehaal E. Nolan, Chier of
Tomm and village Branck.
The Diet cempesed of prefectural represemtatives
in passing the Chihejichiho establiabed the effise ef
Govermor on the same basis as in westerm demeerecies.
The govermor now has only exeeutive pewers. He has a
dual sharacter, as ckief erecutive of the prefesture
and a a matiemal agent. He must strive fer harmonieus
relations with the assembly, and settle honest differ-
ences of opimion by available lawful means.
He is the representatiwe in the prefectures of the
mational government and is responsible for execution
of Diet Laws and Cabimet and Ministerial Ordere. Ho
formorly ceordinated all pational bramah offiees, but
now the law must specifically provide him with respen-
sibility.
A major proble of the prefootural sovernment is
the omruah of mtiomal orricials, swarmig like lesches,
into the prefectures. In gemeral, their duplicatimg
sorvices are undesirable and under the Law should be
iavited to lemve. The looal finamce probl mmet have
an marly prmctical solution. The Local Finance Committee
of the Diet hms this great problem to help solve.
Powers aad Respensibilities of the Legislative Body
by Mr. Howard D. Porter, Chiar of pPoreetural Branch.
The Chihojiohiho creates local assomblies which are
the
UNCLASSIYIID

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.91)
UNCLASSIVIED
Tokge's No. 852
May 4, 1948
-8-
the greet and real vetee of the people. Under the
old regime shey were merely rabber stempe, but now
they have breed powers to cmeet by-lams mnd reselu-
tiens. The pewer to iavestigate is estremely im-
pertent and could met have existed under the eld
Leme end Dmperial ordimemees. The qeestiem of fin-
aness is è matter of majer cemcern, besause ether-
wise it is impessible te eperate. the final respen-
sibility for the budget rests with the assembly.
The assembly's duties with regard to appeint-
moat end dismissel ef persenmel determines the effi-
ciesey of lesal bedies. By its eleetiem of the
eleeteral admiaistrative cemmittee mhien cestrels
the electien mmekimery it cas prevest eerruptien.
Omee the assemblyman is eleeted be is met represent-
ing tae special greap whe supported him but represent-
ing all the people. He mast brine the peeple real
leadership. He mast think for himeelf and let the
seart deside what is or is met legal. A preper fume-
tieming legislative body is bound to predaee a deme-
oratie lecal sovermmest.
Administration, Jusctions and Responsibilities
aserlbed to te prtleipatag orrféer or the
Reglemal Military Govermmemt Teem, but writtem
by Mr. Tilton.
The ealy justifieatien fer the civil serviee is
to serve the people by earrying out the directions
of the laws. The mederm bureaneraey founded im the
midale of the Moiji ere was autocratic, highly centralised
and cliquiak, and not interested im the mam in the street.
Now the department is the highest administrative divi-
siom is the prefeeturel sovermment.
Such departmemts as are basic to all prefectures
ars the sme for reasoms of simplicity and uniformity.
but there are permissive departments to make this sys-
tem flexible. Natioml branah offices of a duplicat-
ing mature should mot be allowed. There are great
opportunities to develop motable careers in locel arems
without being frozen out by tokyo appointees.
Kamyre in a democracy do not make poliay as they
have dome for too long in Japan. Chiefs of local bodies
and legislators must be on guard against enoreachment
of bureauoracy. Bureaucrats must forever be neutral
politiemlly.
5。
The Committee System or the Local public Bodies
by Major Roy A. Harris, USay, Deputy Chiof, Local
Government Division.
The committee system plays a large role in reprosenta-
tive goverement because it has been found to produce am
adequate solution to a probl im the shortest poseible
time. In order to operate, it is vital that the seleotion
or

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.91)
VMOLASSIPTED
Tokye's No. 259
May 4, 1948.
of membere be dese earetally, bearine ia mdad that
-active brains are met ce-egual mith age simply be-
eause af ago".
Members now have taree waye of being safermee
whiek they never pessessed befere; as essembly librery,
the hirins of experts, and firet-hend isveetigatiess
and trevel. All persoms affested by legialesien uader
consideratien eas presest their viome by meme ef epen
or closed hearings. Cemmittees can get meoded inferme-
tiom by resert te e subpeeme if meeessary. A friemdly
press should be ensouraged to inferm the pablic.
Two other papers are plaaned, ome fer eities asd eme fer tems and
villeges. It is proposed to extend these ceaferemses to cities and, if
possible, to devise meame te hold them in temms and villages.
When the papers are cempleted they are to be publisked in the jape-
nese language, with an intreduetien by Mr. Tilton, md distribeted widely.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Emclosures:
1. Represeatative Govermment
2. Powers and Respomsibilities
of the office of Governor.
3. Powers and Responsibilities
of the Legislative Body.
4. Admimistration, Functiens and
Responsibilities.
5. The Committee Syst of the
Local Public Bodios.
Original and ozalid to Department
801
WHLawrence: emn
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.98)
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Seotion
Looal Government Division
Paper-No. 1
Representative Government
Mr. Chairman, Hr. Governor, Mr. Chairman of the Assembly
and Ladies and Gentlemen:
The long cnd splendid history of your Prefeoture is a great
heritago. bll who hoar or reed of this impressive ohroniole, will
ponder long in thoughtfulness and with profound happiness over the
trials, the sorrows, the great happinesses and the splendid triumphi
through whioh your mothers and fathers and your mothers' mothers.
and your fathers? fathers have gone. We are happiest, of course,
and we give thanks from our hearts when we examine their aohievements.
From the experienoes in thoir progress during such a long history,
today ecoh oitizon of your Prefeoture ocn leern muoh end benefit
groatly.
We heve oomo to your Prefeoture to talk with you about the
fulfillment of some of tho goals whioh your forofathers struggled.
to realize. For many reasons those greeter joys whioh oan bo
yours were never theirs. Progress is alweys in the beyond but when wo
sot our heerts and minds to ettain it, we oan be a living part of it.
We must work for these goals: Hatake-kara hamaguri torenu.
Your forofathers desired liberty and freedom of thought and
aotion. You know this and so do I. As individuals they did not have
tho opportunity to pioneer a system of governmont whioh could and
would further their eims as good and loyal members of that systom.
Those men and wpmen, booause of the. groat diffioulty of the years and
the pauoity of means to work the resouroes perhaps, oould not have
organizod themselves for aotion as a state in whioh they were sovereign.
You good people and all of your friends' frionds have the greatest and
most favorable junoture of oiroumstanoes in all Japanese history to
possess it and to maintain it. No Jepanese could think otherwimel

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.98)
Your presonoe hore today is indioativo of it.
The systom of governmont in whioh mon and women organise
thomsolves as sovoreign and through eleoted representatives attain
their goals, is a demooratio or representative government. This
system of government is givon its proper foundation by a constitution.
More frequently than not in the Western worlds, the oonstitution is
writton as in Now Zealand, Australia, in tho South Amerioan republios
and the United States. In England it has never been written. In all
of those countries bodies of laws or codes cnd statutes exist only
in terms of thoir constitutions for no othor laws have any legal
foroe. The laws, of course, implemont the constitutions.
What is reprosentative govornment? What is demooratio government?
Let mo rolate somo charcoteristios of it to yous (1) through the en-
aotmont of laws by whioh minimum qualifioations are established re-
gardloss of olasses or groups, a substantial proportion of tho adult
oitizons is given the right to vote; (2) there is freedom of thought,
speeoh and press whioh tho comman man enjoys daily; (3) most all the
principal polioy-making officials of the government are eleoted freoly
by the votors at roasonably froquent or rogular intervals; (4) the
mon or women who are elected and assume office will both endeavor to,
and will have tho power to, carry on the government in accordenoe with
the publio will and goneral welfaro; (5) the men and wamen reprosen-
tatives of an electorate aro responsible to that group ond must roport
baok to these people what has transpired and what aotion ho or she
has taken; (6) tho men or women who heve boen defeated at t ho polls
will withdraw from offioo peaoefully but that they oan and often do
at the subsequont eleotions, advanoe thuir oandidaoy again and agains
(7) the greater issues and problems of the oountry are settled at the
polls rather than by exooutive disorotion, and (8) above.all, the lawe
of tho land aro for overyone. Man and womon are oqual beforo law,
bocause their govornment is one of laws rather than for a olass or

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.97)
group or porsons.
Ropresentativo governmont is to be valuod in terms of its
suitability for tho oonditions whioh have to be transformed into
the power of the state for exooution. Constitutions and laws
change in torms of tho times and peoples' will, and rightly oe The
cmending procoss answors the oritioal issues of the days. The law
makors of one generation oennot foresoe in any detail what will
mature in tho future.
Politioal parties play a dominent rolo in demooracios, because
in countries with groat populations thero would bo either autooratio
cliques controlling or a multitudinous orying of weak independent
candidates. Some perties aro largo onough to be called communities,
beoause they join thousands of cities and towns for a common cause.
By their platforms thoy adopt coonomio, scoial and politioal roforms.
The parties and thoir luaders must be rosponsible for thoir aotions
to tho poople; pertios must be substantial bodies whose mombership is
moro steadfast than not. No domooraoy oan exist without responsible
politioal parties.
The constitution of Japan is ono of tho most demooratio in tho
world. Tho Law Conoerning Looal Autonomy imploments tho Japanese
Constitution in similer mannor as other laws do in Wostern governments.
The oitizons of your Kon as a. wholo, the rosidunts of eaoh village,
town and city, will roooivo today from their rospootive looal govorn-
ments many more rights of cction, many moro rasponsibilities of
govornmont and mcny moro neodod servioos of banefit than they have
yet oxporionced in thuir history.
The framers und draftors of tho eiji Constitution established
for Japan a contralized govornment with strong oontrolling powers ovor
all the lands. No provision wns medo for local self-governmont in
that dooument. Prince Ito, Prinoe Yamagata end the romaining Hanbatsu
adopted and adapted the Continontal or German and Frenoh prinoiplo of
government. This Continontal System provided that eaoh central

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.92)
governmont would possess and exeroise all the authority and
The Centrrl Governmente allowed the looal governments to exist
and to oxist only for the ocnvenionce of the Contrrl Governmont
rather then for a fow or any of the intorosts cf the looal bodies.
The nftural and inovitcble, result for Japun hes buen a syetem of
contrelized authority. as rigid as any this world has ever kmown.
Prinao Itc's rnd Prinou Yamageta's Hanbatsu eatablishod a systom
which made it possible for tho Contral Government tc reaoh into every
burcku in Jepan (1) te exoroise arbitrary control over tho lives of
tho inhabitants, (2) tc probe for intulligence of the most personal
nrturo, (3) to dissominrto propaganda, end (4) to make cortain that
all loorl overnmonts conformed to cn arbitrary and doliberato
pnttern duumud bost suitud tc its exeroise of full cnd complete control
ovor thor with unso and with ut noise or pain to the naticnal adminis-
trrtcrs.
Prinoe Yamt ata did preducu the Chos nsei, the Shisoi, the Gunsei
and tho Fukonsei. itegother there were scme lomonts of looal self-
govurnuent in thoir pre ran. But as a praotionl mattor, the self-
toverning systom was hellow. Those two strong oharaotors made their
dotormint ticns known; thuy estatlishod the systum fer thoir own pur-
puso. The structures ustablis d, such as they turned uut to bo,
 wero  vurshe dowed by strict  mt purposuful Luporiul Ordinepoos and
purpesuful edninistr tive preculures whion in disorotion the Contral
hovorunont lutorrined.
Tn a atreat t the moiji C nstis ti n und all uf those cutheri-
teri  ri t ws, crptor vlf t ow C netitutien, composed
f Artlels 92, 3, 34 ur 96, r r stoes thet the future overnment of
1. eri publle ontitius shell b ln ne r moo with the prinoiple of
lconl  ut memy. This prineipio is thon defined to inelude diroot
p pular electien f lcenl cliuf uxscutivus, essomblios, and such other
locnl officinls  s mey bo doterinod by . law or sories of laws passed
by tho Diet. It knoludes the right of local ocmmunities to manage

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.98)
their owm property, affairs, and administration'and to
own pegpbatrons within law.
The prinoiple of looal eutonomy is grounded on recognition of
impossibility of introduoing or mcintaining an effeotive end healthy
system of demooretic government for any nation unless the central
organs of government are supported by strong and demooratio looal
units. These very looel units derive their just powers from the oon-
sent of the people whom they govern. These same local units possees
the important powers end responsibilities to manage looal affair.
This condition muans that powers otherwise in the contral government
are decentrelized. This decentralization is pertioularly desirable
in a country whioh has no strong tradition regarding the rights of
individaels or the rights of the community to control the exeroise
of governmentel power.
Essentially, of course, looal gcvernments are the strongest cheok
on the unwholesome concentretion cf national power. Autccraoy and
centralizaticn are nct synonymous. However, history has taught the world
that froedom and justice tre mcre likely to survive and flourish in
nations in which government is decentrelized than those countries in which
great power lies in the hands of a few. in interesting Japanese
provarb applios here: "Oni ni kanabō."
To provide this necessary brake, it is partioularly important in
any democratio country that both netional and looal governments be
equelly demooratio in their own spheres. Suoh moans that oitizens
enjoy rights in rospeot to thoir local gcvernments comperable to
those they possess in respeot to the national. Above and beyond suoh
technioal considerations as centralization or federalization, it is
all tco possible to have demcoracy on the national level but to deny
it on the local level or even to reverse the oondition and have it
. on the local soale but not on the nationel.
What servioes do the looal governments render? Traditionally
in all countries, strong looal governments have provided

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.96)
 Opportunity for popular partiospation Aa poltatda
at lomer levels, providing that experience and treinime
sepentiel for the developmant and, maintenance of demooratie goy
ment at higher levels.
b. Suffioient responsibility for olootad and appointed orrteiwas
in looal government to permit the development of qualities or
leadership and initiativo whioh subsequently oan be exeroieed in the
arena of national affairs.
c. Opportunity for the poople of a looal community to experi-
ment for themselves with tho goneral governmental organization of
thoir own ocmmunity.
d. Opportunity for looal ropresontative bodies and officials
to partioipate in the determination of nctional policies. Local
units of government, rather than merely serving as vehioles for the
transmission of national polioy, are given opportunity to partioipat
in the formulation of that polioy.
e. Opportunity for experimentation on a small soale with
governmental practices and procodures whioh, when tried and tested,
may later be applied on a national soalo,
All those opportunities are made possible by the Now Constitu-
tion. Thus the Japanese man and woman can realize a. great and
proodous grant and. position in life. The government has a weloome
place for him or her. While groater experienoe in looal govérnment
will naturally be required before the Japanese people aveil them-
selves of theso to the fullost extent, there are alroady indioations
of progroas and of widespread Interest.
Let us telk now about some specifio provisions of the Law
Concerning Looal Autonomy as they. relate direotly to the oitisens
and voters themselves. We cannot talk about self-government with any
praoticality unless we mean within our minds and hearts that deeh
Local Autonomy, therefore, brings the men and women oloser se t

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.97)
looelgovernment.
The gitizens of caoh looal government have today tothode
direot relation with their ohief bxeoutive, their legislatore
pther eleoted officials: (1) The voters themselves have the powe
of recall. Disagreementc on courses of action in publio affaire
is commonplase among all people. When an eleotorate is dissatisried
with tho governor or partioular members of the assembly, the voterm
by following the procedures of the Law (rtioles 80, 81, 82, 88),
causo the individual or group of individuals to vacate his or hor
or thoir offices. What steps are takon? They are es followes (1)
the. persons concerned draw e petition whioh must be signed by one-
third the voters of the, local publio body, whether it is a village,
town, oity or prefeoture; (2) the potition is thon given to the mootion
Administrative Committee whioh forthwith must hold an eleotions and (3)
if the eleotion by a majority vote of the eleotorate is unfavorable to
the person or people, he or she or they must vaoate the position.
Artiole 83).
The seoond situation of this same power is its use in dissolution
of the assembly, the steps for whioh are the same as those given above.
Howevor, one-third or more of the voters are required to sign the
potition in order to launah this serious aotion.
The third situation in the use of this power oonoerns the recall
and removal of the assistant govornor or mayor, the assistant head or
treasurer, eleotoral administration oommitteeman or inspeotion commissiomer
as is provided in Artiole 86. These people are appointed to their
offices with the ratifioation of tho essembly rathor than being
eleoted, their recall and removal procedure is different from the tto
situations already given: (1) a petition to stert the proceedinge 
be signed by at least one-third cf the voters; (2) the demand ia given
to the mayor who must forthwith (a) make the matter publie, and (b)
present the case to the assembly: (s) the vote of the assembly dan

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.98)
unfavorable vote if three-fourths of the members oast their ball
against the inoumbent; and (4) the notifioation to vaoate is gimen to
the official by the chief exeoutive rather than by the Bleotion
hdministration Committee as is the oase with the eleoted ofrioials.
The second power to be exeroised by the people direotly is callod
tho initiative. Many issues - the eneotmant, revision or repeal of
by-laws - may come before the publio for whioh they will desire to start
prooeedings of their own. morepvor, they may desire to foroe
slowly acting looal publio body to make a deoision! The steps in
this procedure ere as follows: (1) the petition to get the issue
started requires but one-fiftieth or two peroent cf the voterss
(2) the petiticn is presented to tho mayor who must (a) make the
demand public, (b) and within twenty days oall a meeting of the assembly
should it not bo in session and then present the domand, together with
his opinion, to that bcdy; (3) tho assombly hes to aot one way or
the cther, and (4) tho rosult the meyor must make known to the publio.
(Article 74).
Another form of the peoples' demand for aoticn is to require
the inspeotion commissicner tc undertake a partioular investigation
into the management of any publio underteking or, more ospocially,
into finanoial affairs. The petition goes tc the inspeotion commissioners
who must meke nct only the domand known to the publio, but also the
investigetion and, after completion of the mission, report the findings
publioally to the assembly and to the ohief exeoutive. (Artiole 75)
The third powor cf the oitizons of eny looal publio body oonoerns
the right of the individual, man or woman, to bring suit against the
looal publio body itself for recovery against an illegal aotion
supposedly oommitted by it. This issue, now before the Diet, will
probably be an amendment to Artiolo 96. In addition to the seotion
whioh will be added for suoh e needed right, there are general pro-
visions of the Civil Code whioh ostablish procedures for citisens to
reocver damages from looal publio bcdies.  In a demcoraoy publio bodiee

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.97)
are actiomable before the law as are private bodies and naturek
persons. Why should. not it be so?
The fourth power provided the individual citizen is his or
right to sue any official porsonclly fom b wrongdoing as an ofri
oial. An amendment before the Diet to Artiole 243 will provide thim
long needed romedy. Suoh aotion will, without question, make all
officials a little more oiroumspeot in tleir work. In the United
States this .aotion is generally termed "a taxpayer's suit", for it
normelly has been ocncernod with looal publio body's use or misuse
of the taxpeyors'money..
When you return to your homes with ycur femily and friends,
please think abcut all those prooicus rights. Citizens of the
Westorn world did nct get then over night. They strugglod many
decades tc possess tham. Tho list whioh I have just enumerated is
an impressive one. But I haye stated already that the purpose of
the Law Conoerning Looal utonomy was nct only to bring Suzuki-Kun
and Watanabe-Kun oloser to their gcvernment, but also tc make them
definitely parts of it and in a free manner.
In talking about people being a pert of government and moving
freely in it, I want to ramark upon the ousted Tonari Gumi; ousted,
I say, and abclished by the fcrmer Naimushō on 22 January 1947.
What has been the naturo of this ovil system of control? How was it
organized and how did it function? Historioally overy Japanese oitizen
kmows thet all eohelons of Lcoal Governmunt have'served primarily
as agonoies of the Central Government. The ohief exeoutives of the
villageg, towns, olties and profooturee havo boon tho offioials who
havo passed the crders and instruotions dcwn to the people and per-
formed tho nocessery coticn. During the wer and since its oessa
too, ovory Japanese citizen has reglized thet after the establishment
of tho Tonari Gumi System, ho or sho oould move only with less and
"Teas freodom. Tho ten or so families who vomposed'any Tonari Guisi

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.97)
had to be members of it. No official ever asked the family as
unit or most assuredly any individual whether it or he or she do-
sired or wanted to ba & member of the partioular Toncri Gumi. The
family as a whole and individuals alike woro foroed to join whother
they wished to do so or not. Indeed they had nc way out beoause
mcst all ossontial rations were distributed by the System and hence
no Jepenuso could cbtain suffioient nooessities of lifo without
jcining and takin: part in the compulscry organizaticn's aotivities.
In ovory day life, tho Japanoso oitizen through the Toneri
 Gumi Systom hed between himsolf or hersolf and the village, town or
oity overn.ont at loast two and scmatimos three crbitrary, additional
ocholcns cf cuthcrity. Tha whclo channol of cuthcrity strippod
tho villc os, tcwms and prefeoturas of whet vestiges of cutonomy
they pcssussed. The shiohr, olhcohc cnd scnoho booume, and some
agrinst their wills, nothing but tocls of the totalitarian govern-
ment for tho prcsoouticn of the war, for provention of eny disdon-
tont among the populctich for rogimentation and fer the fulfilling
of all roquiremonts. Thoro certainly was nc plaoo in this system
for any typo of critioism, for freudom of speeoh or aotion. The
offeot of this System put the neticnal gcvernment mainly through ono
minister, thet of Hono Affairs, in autcoratic ocntrcl of 47 governors
who influenood cr crdered 1l,000 meyors and headnen of oities, towns
 and villages to aot as dosired; the mayors and hoadmen influonood
if not commended moro than 200,000 Rengckeioho, Choneikaioho and
Burakulaioho and thoso in turn dcmincted cr persuadod moro than one
million Tonari Gumioho, whc, togothor with their fanilies, made up
tho scmo 70 millicn pooplu who ocmposod tho nation.
Within this rogimontive Tonari Gumi Systom thoro woro some
leadurs of unquostioned sinoerity and ocmmunity faith for fair and
honest treatment of their partioular grcup. Whatever bright and warm
from their good hoarts and aiding hands. But those mon and women

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
alone could not release the groups (over whom they were eleoted
or appointed) from the confines of the imposed autooratid con-
trols. As all Japanese have sinoo loarned and certainly those
who crganized it know, this colossal and vioicus Systom was
built to convey orders from above to those below and to propa-
gandizo the nation. In wartime swiftness it stifled freedom, it
rcoted.cut domooratic praoticos, and it provided rigid basis to
perpetuate tyranny.
A real purpese for abclition also has boen thu result of the
government's decisicn to shoulder its cwn funoticns, duties and
responsibilities. During the war, as well as the immediate period
following, the Tonari Gumi were foroed to carry burdens of an un-
warrantod nature. Pocple were compellod to cive time and servioes
to & pornioious dogree without any ocnpensation. Today, with the
re-assumption by tho govornmont of its propor funotions, the people
are tc bo relieved frcm this invcluntary sorvitudo.
Thus, the Tonari Gumi the Chcnaikei, the Burakukai and the
Reng kai and cll suoh ccmpulsory crganizations have no pleoe in
representativo gcvornment. The fewer luvols of authority between
the citizen and his goverment, the safer and bottor.
All the people cf Japn have to oxert themsolves for the develop-
mont and progress of it. I daro say here, and with the deepest
convioticn, that the women of Japan will come forward to give the
existing pclitioal and sooiel instituticns a breath cf lifel Their
contributicns are needod today and from henoe forward in Japan.
The musio of the remarkablo Beethoven in a majestio symphcny exalts
mankind when tho gloricus hermony bursts forth, "The eternaI feminine
leads us cn!" Yet we need not idly sing their praises! In the Western
world hundreds of thcusands of women ocoupy professional position, some
indeed, have rison to high cffice in gcvernment and tho law. In
Japan, women in government will ocntribute the grect qualities of
honesty and effioiendy. More then one office oculd use in liko

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
manner the officienoy and ccre which she exhibite daily in her
daidokero.. The wonen cf the Now Japan can take the leaderahip
in meny brenohes of govornment. Let them study and appraise the
opportunities and assume their rightful positions.
In no system of gcvernment does the individual citizen have
to think mcre often and more carefully about himself or herselr and
his or her noighbours, then he cr she does in a domooraoy. 4ll
demoorrcios rost upon the prinoiplo of shuken toshite no kokumin
Every Japanoso will have to realize more and mcre that to afford
the servioes and to live a bottor cnd freer life will neoessitate
revenues. Theso funds are nearly always from taxes; somotimes they
are from bends and othor loens. The taxpayer, man or women, should
be far more ocreful to find out where the ravenues are spent. He
oen't affcrd to sloep upon his rights! It is his responsibility,
it is her rosponsibility, tc be evor aware of what is taking plaoe.
Noithor porson cen shirk thct duty and then lator seok redross when
domrgedl The lcoal gevernments to cperate properly oan exert them-
selvos oven to disoovering new, fruitful scuroos cf revenue as their
very own. But in so dcing, cno grcup of pooplo noed not be played
off against another. Tho tax problom is ovorybcdy's problem.
Hr. Chairman and Friends, thore is nothing more important than
that Suzuki-Kun end Watanabe-Kun dovolcp a sincere bunmin no sekinin.
There must bo for good looal autonomy shimin no hokori. Would that
you oould travel to the Western world to obsorve these In the
past thirty yoars tho policy makers of Japan stopped going abroad as
their predecessors oarefully did. They heve made tragio errors too,
whioh their fathers did nct do. Nead these truly ewful mistakes be
ropeated?. The individual oitizen with sinoere effort oan devolop
sōnmin toshite no hokcri, ohömin toshite no hokori, shimin toshito no
hokori
In olosing our disoussion, I want to say again that people in the
great Western demooracies think in terms of others. Their thinking

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.94)
is nct just in terms of hakuai which is noble in itself.
thinking, good peoplo of Miyagi Kon, transoends simplo hakumi nfor
it asoonds in the Christian way tc aven loftier heights, jinruiall
In the Western mind, in tho Western life, in the Western aotion from
day to day, there is a great difference in the conoopt and in the
roality of the twc. Ycu, all bofore mo, and your friends' frionds,
in diligont and sinoero effort will understand and in so doing aohieve
the jeys in tho roalizcticn. Thus cno porson oan no longor dwell
within himself cr his family; ho and she oan dwoll, if ycu please, must
dwoll in tho horrts cf cthors tco.
The pocplo in this trcublod plenet must know that tho damo-
eratio forr. of vorw.ont in the iostern world, aspecially in the
Unitod Status (f imorioa unoouragod and made tho srect industrial
dovolcpmont nd oc,nto pre ross pessiblo. Under demcorcoy in tho
Unitod Statos in p' rticular boacuse thore have boon abundent oppor-
tunitios fer solf-oxprossion und solf-dovolcpmont on the genoral besis
of merit rogardloss of raco er orood or olass distinotion. Thore
is c cloer roo nitiin by the pouplo and therofuro the gcvornmont
olooted by thom, f the frot thet the individunl is a rospcnsiblo
humen boin, frou and self-centrclling. Honoo tho ocsts cf bureau-
oracy end pelioing havo nover strappod the taxpcyer; in fact being
lcw thoso o sts hevo tllowod hi: to'roap the botter shero of tho
fruits of any oxtra offirt whioh ho was willing tc put forth. The
oitizon has been froe to ocncontreto his energius for c tremendcus
and unondin preduotica of usoful gocds and services.
Progross in roatnoss and powor in tho Unitod States hes
sonuratod and gonoratos today fran tho doncorctie system that hes
allowod millions cf pacple ts fromon to toil a littlo harder, to
savo c littlo mcre, to invost in ocpitcl, to produce bottor tools
and laber scving dovices. Thrcugh this ropublioan fcrm of govern-
mont naturcl humen onergios heve expended ono billion fold. ill
33

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.91)
of this power, strongth and happinoss flower from tho natural,
normal-outgr wth cf a political struoture that unleashed the
oroativo gonias und onergies f millians of men and wanon, by
luaving then froc t work cut thoir perscnal effairs unregimented,
without or oroivd nuth rity, but r ther through vuluntary ooopora-
ticn based upen enlightonud politiocl ctnsoicusnoss cnd meral
rosponsibility. Witross t dry that with this strongth tho Unitod
States has ud  os food uilli as (f viotims uf uggressur nctions
as well as foeds and holps roounstruot those vory aggrossers them-
sclvos
In this troublud planot, rmy friends, all eyes of the world
turn tu  tsorvo y ur prc ross. Cun you n't fuul their soarohing
zlanco? In tho cld werld of the pionoers who ravised the moifi,
thore was tr ublo t; th se mon purhaps porforr.ud as bost they
oould. But whatover evil noxus thero new rennins, it must ba broken
cnc lcst.
In this tr ublod plenut, my frionds, tho stars are shining.
mankind in der orrcies will, and oun, sou then. shining; tho domcoraoles
for menkind will kuop thon shining.
Delivored. by
Cooll G. Tilt
Chi f. L cel are t Divis
14

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.97)
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Seotion
Local Government Division
Paper No. 2
POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OFFICE OF GOVERNOR
The Law Conoerning Looal Autonomy for the first time in the
history of Japanese governmental affairs has brought forward the ex
ecutive branoh of government for all local publio bodies as it is
exeroised and whobe-heartedly believed in by the Western demooraoies.
In responsible and ropresentative government, the exeoutive exeroise
powers and authority within his own jurisdiotion; he does not. in
law exercise legislative or judioial funotions. Powerful tradition,
constitutions or statutes make olear the ohiof axecutive's power
and responsibilicies in law and in administration for the struoturo
of government over whioh ho prosides. In Japan today, the Law
Concerning Local Autonomy onunerates the ohief exocutive's govorn-
mental powurs of tho local public bodios as oxeoutive powors only.
For partioular functional powors in oech of the groat aot: vities of
government, thero are other Diot laws and looel by-laws whioh pro-
vide tho ohief oxooutive with spocial dutios and responsibilities.
All of you prosont are faniliar with this mannor of administration
in Japan.
There is a vast differenoe botween tho mennor in which a ohief
-8
exocutivo CAN conduct and CAN administor his offico in a reprosenta-
tive govornmont from that in whioh ho does in a highly contralized or
authoritarian gcvorrment or in whioh he has done so in the past his-
tory of Japanese govornmontal affairs. The Diet, composed of repre
sontetivos from this vory prefeoturo, dooided unquostionably in
passing the Law Concorning Looal Autonomy and many othor aots, to
establish onoe end for all tho cffice of govornor on prooisely tho
same pettern of power and responsibility as Wostern domcoracies for
themsolves provide and enjoy. In taking this unqualifiod and forward

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.98)
stand, the Diet has implanted in the villages, towns, oities and
prefeotures a newer, more healthy life. In doing so the Dimt hes
created additionally a fuller national life for the Now Japin.
What are these faotors or divisions of pewer among the
eleoted offioials whioh account for the vast existing differenoes?
All of these points will be mede cloar to you by oontrasting what
powers your governor exeroised under the old and rightly disoarded
regime with those powers whioh he holds in law today. In other
words, I am now going to summarize whet existed prior to the Dietis
enaotment of the Law Conoerning Looal Autonomy which was promulgated
16 Apri1 1947.
First of all, you will please reocll the middle years of Meiji,
the days of Prinoe Itō and Prince Yamageta. The Cabinet System was
adopted in 1885 for Japan. You will remembor thet one of the first
acts accomplished by the new cabinet was to issue e Chokurei --
the Chihokankcnsei -- on 20 July 1886. It has existed until abolish-
ment by tho paseage of the Chihojiohiho, 16 April 1947. In these
years of Meiji the prefectures wure entirely national organs.
Naturally the governor and all important offioials exeroised national
powers beoause thoy were tho national agents of the national govern-
ment. This impertant Chc curei esteblished in any prefeoture the
authority of the governor without any question as the highest authority
exeroising national governmental powers in the prefeotural boundaries.
-That this was true is evidenoed clearly by the feot that of all
government officials the governor was the only one who could (1)
issue Fukenrei, (2) demend the dispetoh of troops, and (3) supervise
.the heads of villages, towns, gun and cities. These Regulations also
fixed the number of offioials and the structure of the organization.
Over both of theso the governor was given great powers. His power of
seleotion, promotion, trensfer end dismissal in relstion to hannin and
when the Gunsei wes in foroe, power ever'personnel extsted also. s

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.98)
important as all of these, was the provision that the governor
the diroot appointee and in some degree a henohman of the Waim
who controlled virtually his ontire career as a govermment offiolals
You will remember full well that the Fukonsei was enaoted by
the Diet 17 May 1890. This law introduoed and fixed the prinoipl
of dual capacity and power of administretion in the prefeotural
government. The governor, therefore, from thet date forward has
had dual responsibilities. Prior to tho enaotment of the Fukensoi,
three other laws had beon pessed -- the Chosonsoi, the Gunsei and the
Shisoi. The first end lest laws were passed to inaugurato self-
gevernment. In passing let me steto, and I dc so rogretfully.
that while self-government wes started by those laws it never was
nor has been develored with reality.
The Fukensei gave the governer in lew further powers over the
prefeotural adninistration, as woll as over the other two lovels of
supposed, self-governing bodies. Those new powers we will oall his
authority in the lccnl governmont system.
Within tho profeotural government itself, tho governor was an
offioial to bo plecsed and foared: (1) ho alone oould oall'the
assembly into regular and speoicl sessicns end to all praotioal ox-
tent dotorminod thoir duretion; (2) he oculd whon he ohoso ovorride
the cssembly's cotion and if the coocsion soamod diffioult through
the assembly's stubbornness, he appoaled to the Naimudaijin who
appointed him; and (3) he presidod over the fukonsanjikni whioh mot.
during the somo nine, ten and oleven months of the year in whioh the
assombly was not in session. Only by a miraole through a bonevolont
governor, oould an assembly possibly got its own aotion passed!
Furthor powers in tho self-governing system were evidenoed by
the dogree of suporvision whioh the governor oould exeroise over tho
oities at one lovel and the towns and villages at anothor. At the
time of the indireot eleotions of the sōnohō, tho choohō and tho
Snfohp, the oandidatos' names went to the govornor's offioe for fo

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.98)
approval; henoe, the eleotion process was never complete. The
governor could almost by his own disoretion remove a sonoho or
choohō from office as woll as dissolve the little sonkai or chokai.
Upon his recommendaticn the Naimu Daijin removed the Shioho or
dissolved the Shikai.
Thoso are all politioal controls. They must bo oontrasted with
his finanoial onos, espeoially on the submissions and aotual approval
of budget with the kenkai. Over the villages and towns and the
cities the governor had indireot supervision of their budget and
berravings. What botter way oan & governor suporvise than by hold-
ing the purso strings? Espeoially when ho exeroised these other
powers too? Let mo hasten to sny that the goneral supervisory
powers varied from timo to time in terms of tho anondments to all
threo laws. I havo boen tulking in general terms whioh I'm certain
you undorstand.
Court ranks in Japan havo always been signifioant.. Under the
Joi.jorei of 6 Lay 1887 which booame tho I Kai Roi on 21 Ootober 1926,
the govornor was a Chokunin officicl and of a 'high grade within that
rank. This was a souroe of greut politiocl and sooial prostigo.
Whet is tc bo said of this important government offioial in
final sunmary? Simply this. No one professiny even tho slightost
kmowledge of government and politioal soionco oould but state that
no one man or no one offioe should bo allowod the powor and right
to wield suoh extensivo authority. In a democraoy the oitizenry oculd
not and would not tolerate it.
What of Jc.pan tcdey? As a rosult of ovor two years of our
travolling throughout Japan, I oan say that countless Japanese
oitizenry and looal government officials, have loathed tho domineering,
centralized oontrols; they too have had enough. They have demanded
a ohange and the Diot has given them their answer as dosired.
In a representative ford of government, in a democreoy, the
eleoted ohief exeoutive oan also possess wide authority at times.

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
But even so, oporating restriotións are provided in 'the lawes
legal standards replace wild disoretionary privileges and the
legislative and judioial branohes of govermment oontest and hold
in oheok any over-zealcus exsoutive.
The Law Coneerning Looal Autonomy established the demooratio
pattern of governmont for the office of ohief exegutive of all
publio bodies. I wish this morning to talk about the kenohiji only.
I shall make my romarks in torms of the more important artioles of the
Law. I should state at the buginning that there are many praotioes
in looal gcvernment whioh follow the British perliamentary system
and there are as well many prooedures whioh follow the presidential
system of tho United States. I shall point out a fow of those
similarities.
Tho first pert of tho disoussion oonoorns that division of
the dual character of tho governor whioh deals with looal cutonomy.
As the oleoted governor of the prefeaturo, what powers may he
exoroise over prefeotural affairs for tho bonafit. of tho taxpuyors?
Stated in anothor way, what tre powers of looal autonony whioh the
governor can oxoroise?
First of all, what are the qutlifiontions of the oundidate who
is to run for the offigo of zovernor? Iny oitizen of Japan thirty
years of age and oligible to vote oan be oleotod to the offioe of
governor. In similar manner with tho British parliamentary praotioe,
the oandidate need not nooossarily bo a rosidont of the prefooture
in whioh he runs for offioe; age cnd Japanose oitizenship are the
two tests of oligibility. The governor es well as other ohief
executives of the villapo, town and city serve a tarm of offioe for
. four years. In utiMzing this spooifiod cr fixed torm of offioa a
a praotice, the presidentinl system is followod. Howevor, the torm
of offioe as used here in Japan is aotually not "fixed" in the sense
in whioh the torn is used in tho United Stetos, beoause the ahief
executivo oan, during this term of four yoars, be oustod by a vato of

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.97)
non-confidenco. The use of the proceduro of a vote of non-confidence
is again the pattern of historio British ouatome
Certain restriotions of groct morit re put upon the governor
the moment that he ussumes office. In gonoral suumary they are
the following: (1) ho shall not hold oither the offioe of Coun-
cillor or the office of Representative conourrently with his
gcvernorship; (2) ho must not mcke any oontracts with tho publio
ontity dirootly cr indirootly; (3) ho must give a thirty-day notioe
before resignin: from office, unloss he has the oonsent of tho
assombly (Articles 140, 141, 142, 145); and (4) ho may not appoint
his wifo, cno of his ohildren, cno of his purents, cr brothor or
sister to either tho cffioes cf ohiof or deputy aocountant or ohief
or deputy trocsurer (Artiole 169).
As to porsonal metters, (1) the cvernor's salary and travelling
exponses are providod by law, (Artiole 204); and (2) upon rotirement
tho governor is given an allcwance and in ouse of his doath his
family is iven en ellcwance (Article 205).
The overnor is the ohief exocutivo of tho prefeoture and as
suoh ho has ohrrge of and ccordinntes all of the departmenta, (1)
he suporvisus somo spooifio and administretive organs (rtiole 156);
and (2) he must sot up suoh buroaus and dopartmonts as are providod
for specifioully by Diet law, or by profoctural by-law. With rogard
to tho ostablishmont of thoso dopertmonts in the olass dosignated as
pormissive, ho, cf ocurso, usos utmost disoreticn (Amondod Artiolo 158).
Morecver, in onse he bolioves thet eny act of an administrutive offioer
is ultra-vires, ho oun suspend its aotion (1rtiole 151).
Formerly, tho governor ws tho coordinatur of all the national.
branoh offices, subject cnly to the instruotions or veto of the
Ministor in Tokyo ccnoernud. Now he does not have this general auth-
ority. The law setting up these cffioes must spooifioally provide
him with this rosponsibility (Artiole l57). In the event an office
or departmant is to be abolishod or transferred by Cabinet order.

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.97)
the govornor takes the aotion and should anyone refuse to oomply,
he can be given a fino, the maximum of whioh is Y2000. (Amonded
Artiol0 159).
Specifically, the governor, (1) administers all funotions of
the profectural government for whioh the prefeoture pays the ocst;
the profeoturel budget will, of course, provide for the proper ex-
ponditures. These functions, of course, oover all the renge of
government, such as, for oxample, polico, firs, publio works, roads,
agriculturo or fishing; (2) continues, as ho always has done, to
prosont bills to tho essembly for proper legislction, as woll as
cther messegos cnd cther oormunications; (3) manages tho real estate
and ostcblishmonts of the prefecture, tho affairs concerning which
may be must complux and extonsive; (4) is tho chiof aocounting
cfficer of tho profecture. This responsibility is of tho utmost
importance in the proper ranrgoment of the entiro prefeoturo, indeed
no cne can mininize this function's significance; (5) possesses the
custody of all cffici.l locur:eits, papers and instruments. This
functicn is not to bo confused, howovor, with the proper jurisdiotion
of tho newly established usseably libraries whioh must be instituted
in confornity with tho Law Conoorning Lootl Autonomy; (6) enfcroes
and authcrizes tho collaction of the indopendont looal taxos, the
charges, the fees and tho rents cocordiny to such nntional laws or
prefoctural by-laws as ay givo him thet authority; (7) administers
all other mattors of government, oven though nct speoifioel ly delegated
to do so. This provision moans, of course, thrt in gonoral all ad-
ministrative mrttors tre tho govornor's responsibility (Artioles 147
and 149); and makos appointmonts of personnol and. exeroises disoiplino
(Artiolo 154).
Tho governer may bo given furthur looal govornment powors from
other national laws. As I have statod, his funotional powors in
pertioular fields of government are found in suoh lrws ns tho two
following illustrato:
(1) In Police Law, Seotion 3, Artiole 20, the govorncr is

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.97)
vested with the following authority:
"There shell be established undor the jurisdiotion
of the Governors of To, Do, and Prefeotures Publio
Safety Commissions of To, Do, and Prefeotures.
"Tho Public Safety Commissions of To, Do and Pre-
fecturos shall exeroise operational control over the
National Rural Police of To, Do, and Prefeoturos."
Article 21 providos:
"Mombors of tho Commission shell be appointed by
the Govornor -- with the consent of the assembly, etc."
Articlo 24 givos the governor authority to dismiss mombers of the
conmission for causo with the consont of tho assombly or if two
morburs bulong to tho srmo politiccl ptrty.
(2) In tho Firo Defonse Low oomplete authority is given to the
mayors of villug3s, tcwns and cities; howevor, Articlo 17 thereof
reserves to tho governor es follows:
"The fire dofunso of such speciel w.rds shall
be controlled by the Governor of To.
"The Chief of the Firo Deptrtment of speoiel wards
shall bo appointed and dismissud for cause by the Governor
of To."
Articlo 22 providos:
"Tho mayors and hoadmon of citios, towns and
villagos shall, on forms and in tho manner provided
for by thu Nt.tiont 1 Firo Dufonse Bourd, mako roports
of firo defonso str.tistios to tho Nrtioncl Firo Do-
fonso Boards through tho Govorncr of To, Do and
Profoctures."
Articlo 24 prcvidos that the Firo Bocrd, tho Nationcl Safuty Commission,
tho govornors tnd tho mt.yors and hordmon may nako egreoments boforo-
hand to carry out tho purposo of tho Act offoctivaly. Moro might bo
givon but those two explos will suffioe.
Tho govornor of c profecture, for aid in his office, can have
from ono to threu rssistant govornors who receive end aot only under
oortain delogcted cuthority. They tot on bohalf of the Governor.
Thoy havo no nuthority in thoir own neme. Only whon tho govornor
dies or vaoatos his offioo can ono of theso cssistants cotually assume
tho office and, in consoquunou, tho powors of govornor. He does so at
suoh time only for c short poriod as the law provides, that is oleotion

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.97)
oan be held and a new governer seleotod. The assistant governor
is en appointod offioial after confirmeticn by majority vote of
the assembly. If thore is more then one assistant governor,
assumption cf tho governcr's cffioe is in the order of their pre-
vicusly fixed priority, provided for in a prefeotural by-law. In
grave situctions in whioh both the govorner and the assistent govornor
aro disabled at tho same time, the senior soorotariel cffioial,
dosignated by profoctural by-law, carries out the duties cf the
ovorner (imndod Artiolo 247). Tho cvornor has the power to
delogato temporarily uny of his duties to an cfficial of the pre-
focture (irticlos 152 und 153).
The zcvornor has mtny dutios (nd rosponsibilities in his executive
rolutionship with tho asseribly. Nothing is mcre iuportant for good
cvernment than to hevo an h rmonicus roleticnship butweon the
executive ana logislrtivo tranohos. Tho majcr rolaticns whioh oan
bo listed aro as follows: (1) his conoral duty is to oell tho assembly
for tho regular end speoial sossions although tho assombly hes oortain
rights also regarding tho same; (2) it has boon the oustcm in Japan
for the govornor to introduoo ost of tho bills into tho assembly.
But ho is not to usurp tho rights. It is nut lis oxolusivo jurisdio-
tion booause any mombor of tho assombly oan do so likowise, (3)
perhaps of all tho bills which the govornor introduoes into the
as sombly, none is more important than tho budgot whioh by law he
must prepero and submit (irticle 234). Lator becauso cf neoessity
ho may supplomunt or rovisu any bud ot whioh has been passod (irtiole
235); and (4) ho is requirod to mako a finanoial roport et lonst
threo times a yeer to tho publio at largo; :tho taxpayors, indood,
havo a right to know hew muoh monoy has boon oolleotod, in partioular,
whore and how it is boing spent. Tho assombly through a by-law should
specify the datos of suoh roporting to the publio.
Beoauso of tho seriousness of publio affairs, strong minded
mon should, and often do, have sinoere and widely different opinions

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.97)
regarding them. In cese that there is a sinoere disagreemont be-
tween tho governor and the members of the essembly, the lawful
moans exist to sottlo the problem. In fact, this differenoe of
opinion on rvo occcsions is tcken for settloment to tho people
thomselves in whom all sovoreignty lies. First, the governor may
send tho issuo buok tc thu tssembly for roconsiduration when he
considers it ultra-vires. If the roconsideretion is rofused, the
governor ray brin: tn cction in ccurt (Artiole 176). Seoondly, he
crn und probably will roly upon the gre:t prooedure of non-confidenoe.
This is the gonoral result of strong difforenoos on the budget
(Articlo 177). In the uxorcies of the vote of non-oonfidonce the gov-
ornor takos one of two stops: (1) oithur ho docides to romain in offioe
and doss so, then dissolves tho :ssenibly and then weits for a confir-
metion of his stand fron: the nowly olocted assomblymon. Should he
not recoivo t. favort ble vote, ho must rusign forthwith. Thore would
then follow on lection acccrding to the L.w; or (2) he deoides not
to dissolve the assonbly tnd, therefore, is forced to resign immediately.
The olecticn dministr tion cormittue must hold cn clection within the
spocified poricd providod by tho Law (Articlu l78). In either situa-
ticn there is tn uxprussion of tho opinion of tho vcters, whioh is
the most domocr:tic procoduro.
What aro tho governor's powurs in rulution tc othor matters of the
profocture? His powors are suporvisory but far differont then undor
tho old Fukonsui ind cther crdinancus. Ho cen romove a. meyor of a
villge, town or city from office for oauso only (hmonded Artiole 146).
The procoss is through the mandimus prcoudure which involves tho courts.
In a domocracy the romoval of & purson from high ulootive office is
sorious notion. Boctuso of this tho function is nevur luft to ad-
ministrative disorotion alono. Thus no longer is the power of removal
left to thu simple discretion of the governor and his friend who
appointed him, the Ncimu Deijin.
The govornor today and honceforwrrd, instead of the Naimu Daijin

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.97)
will make the determination offeoting a ohange in boundrien of any
political subdivision besed upon proper procoedings taken by the local
publio entities involved. (Amended Artiole 259). The same determina-
tion is made with regard to divisions of looal entities (smended
Artiole 26o). When two or more prefeotures join in a projeot for
scma specific purpose, the governors ohoose a oentral oheirman from
anong thoso ocncornod. (Artiolo 253).
Wo have been disoussing thus fer the governor's powers and re-
sponsibilities whon he is exeroising them as a prefeotural governor
of a profectural eloctorate. Lot us discuss now the governcr's position
when he is a natienul agont acting for a competont minister of tho
notional gcvurnment, as provided for in a Diot law. This is the
other division of tho Cual oharaoter of the offioe. Stated in another
way tho governcr is the ruprosantative in tho prefootures of the
Central Governmont rnd tho Ministrius thoroof. Boiny so, ho is ro-
sponsiblo for the axooution f Diet Luws and Cubinot and Linisterial
Ordors relating to nnticnal uffeirs within the prefeoturo boundaries.
The administration of rany funetions must during the prasent:omer-
genoy bo exocuted through a national pclicy in order to conserve and
allocate scaroe items in the nationel coonomy like focd, building
matarials, raw meteriels, and nrtural resouroes. Experiunce in
Japan hes indioated that tho dutl system can work effiolontly. The
mervelous cooporetion of the governors in carrying out tho rioo
delivery quotas and other similrr progrems nttost this fsot. Until
normal conditions, escoially in finance, on all levols of govornment
roturn, local ovornmnts will be wcrking under unusual restriotiuns.
They oan, cf coursy, wcrk in closo hermony with tho nationel polioy
evon though thoy aro quite independent of it.
When the gcvernor is in this position rs a national representa-
tivo, ho must bo answerable to thu Cuntral Govornmont. s oiclly must
he be responsible in tho manegomant of oentral govornont funde plaoed
in his hands for nrtional purposes. A provision has baen plaoed in

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.97)
tho Law Conoorning Local Autonomy whioh gives the Cantral cuthori-
ties a procedure to bring c governor to aocount for failure to
carry out the presoribed dutios undor the national law or oabinet or'
ministorial orders. This prooceding is ono in the nature of a
mandamus prcceeding whioh has beon utilizod in a limited way in the
administrative law horetofor. The proceeding is inoorporeted in an
amendment to Articlo l46, end applies nct only to the governors but
to mayors also, as wns showm above. The amendmont provides a simple,
relativoly s ift und offeotive muthod of onforoing the netional funo-
tions assignod tc these offices. Tho procedure provides for a method
to compul the goverr to cot. In cartain onses of necessity it
allows the ministry ccnoerned to take over partioular duties until
they heve been acoomplishod. The prooeeding also provides in extreme
situctions for the romoval of the overnor in cases in which he re-
fusos to cot aftor c ccurt order has buen issued requiring him to o
so. Tho romovel is rcdu by tho Primo Linister after the caso is re-
ferred to him in cno of the Hih Ccurts. Tho procceding is in three
perts: (1) the originel or mandrmus hearing; (2)tho contempt hearing,
and (3) tho trrnsfer cf the cas by the High Court to the Prime Minister
for possible renmcval prcoeedings. While this prcceuding is designed to
provide a methcd of control by the central government over the exeoution
of national laws and orders in the profocturos, it also rffords to the
govornor a sounding boerd cn which ho can reise legal objeotions to
laws whioh might be unoonstitutionnl or otherwise unpopular with his
constituents (Amendod Articles 146 end 150).
Tho enforoomont of national lews by the govornor may cause and
arouse muoh local crtioism about cr a cinst him. This may result in
unpopularity which of course is demeging to him politioally. The
govornor by a good press, radic, and proper addresses to the people
cen explain to them that he is onforoing a nrtionl law. Ho oan
state the name of the law, the partioular artioles conoornod and show
the implementations whioh he has devised to cerry it out. In this manner

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.97)
he makes alear to the voters thet in the given situation bes
aoting as an official of the national government and is not cett
as their eleoted official. moreover, by quoting tho Diet law under
whioh he must porform his sinoere duty, the voters kmow that the
is no doublo talk or simple politioal exouses behind whtoh ho im
attempting to hide or to placate the elootorate's angor. The votore
always hive to be on their guard to disoover and to seo through the
politioal propaganda devised cunningly to gloss over a bad or un
pleasant situntion for whioh the cffioial should take the entire
responsibility and blame.
Please let me turn now to some of thuso actuel situntions in
some nowly pessed laws by th Diet. In those we shall observe what
the governor is roquirod to dc es a nctional roprosontativo in one
way or anothor.
1. In the Road Transpcrtation Law thore aro delegations of
authcrity to the governor. Artiole 4, pcragraph 5, sub. 2 próvidesi
"The power or tuthority provided in Chapter V
shall be delogated or oommissioned to Direotor of
Rond Transportation Supervision Office as woll as
to Governor of To, Do, Fu or Prefeotures."
Sub-paragraph 3 provides:
"Mattors pertaining to untry or use of land for
the purpose of ounstruoting autonotive oar road may
be delegated to Govorncr of To, Do, Fu and Prefeoture."
Artiole 8, paragraphs 5 and 6, provides that tho governor shall
rooommend to the Ministor of Transportatiom and he, in turn. to tho
Prime Minister and the mombers of the Looal Road Transportation
Commissicn.
2. The Emplcyment Soourity Law, irtidle 7, leaves to tho govornor
tho following
"The authority to manage suoh affairs conoorning
the onforooment of E.S.L. as control of tho businoss
of the Publio Employment Security Offioe and the super-
vision of the ohief of personnel thoreof."
Article 9, page 3, provides as followss
is

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.96)
"The authority to appoint and disoharge the
third offioials and othor personnel who are on-
gaged in the affairs oonoerning the onforoement
of the Employmont Seourity Law in the Prefootural
Office and in tho Publio Employment Offico."
Artiole 10 gives tho govornor authority to appoint and to disoharge
liaison offioers under tho Lot.
Articla 27 ivos to tho governcrs the authority to ostablish and.
to mcintain vcoational training projects or to delegate this authority
to sema other genoy.
Article 55, pago 3, givos tho cvarnor authority to expend necessary
funds other than those ivon by the oontral govornment to carry out
the purposus of the Aot.
3. In tho Unomplcymont Insuranoe Lew, tho authority to give
approval to ompleyers dosiriny to ccme under the ct, a normal funo-
tion of the Laber winistry is ulogatod to the Govornor in Artiolo
8, pago 1, and Artiolo 13, go 1, end rticle 52 cf scid law.
4. The Disester Reliof Law, Irticle 12, ives tho covornor
wido powors in takin; ovur suporvision of business, of produotion,
collootion, sclos, distribution, custcdy and transportaticn of supplies
necossary for roliuf, cr he mty oxprupricto supplies necessary for
rolief. Irtiolo 13 ivos hin or : ints autherity to enter in plaoos
to lock for supplies and to donand roports therecf. Artiole 22 gives
to the uvorner the oxolusive jurisdictien f handling relief work
undor tho Act. Article 24 -ivos hin. ruthcrity to requisition medioal
o nstruction, un ineerin ind transpcrtation facilitios to aid in
the rolief (f disastor unlor the iot. irticlos 25, 26, 27 and 28
delecte cthor similar powors.
5. In the Childron's liolfaru Law, fur examplo, thore are sixteen
paragraphs which ive oortrin powors t tho prefeotural cvornor in
the Aot. irtiolo 8 plaoos tho Looel Child Wolfaro Board under the
jurisdictien f the -ovornor. irticle 9 ives to the governors and
the Wolfaro ulnistor authcrity t: arpoint members tc the Contral or
Looal Wolfare Bcards. Irtiolo 1l, ives tho governer authority to

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.97)
designate in whet arec the welfaro workers shall be assigned.
Artiole 16 provides thet Child Welfare Stations shall be under the
jurisdiction of tho govornors. Article 19 plaoes the Welfare
Program and Seourity phases in Chapter ll under the supervision of the
govornors.
The durl cheracter of tho office of governor when viewed as
I hcve listed and shovm the funotions and administration oan be
apprecirted. In torms of the Japtnose govormmental structure and
eocnony it is necusscry. There will, however, elweys be some
difficulties, uspucially thrcugh olashes in porsonalities, but they
will not to of grutt burden.
A major problem today of thu entire profectural government is
the onrush of nctional officials, swnrming like leeohes, into the
profucturus. In gonoral, their duplicating survioes are undesirablo,
unwerranted and an wiforgiveable drain of expense upon the taxpayars.
In particular in thoso instcnces in which theso national officials
aro performing the srre or sirilar funotions whioh have beon and
are being porformed by tho locel cvurarionts. These national branoh
offices and their cfficitls, one cnd all, should bo invited to leave
if set up in viol, tion of Amcnded irticlo 156. Indeed it is the duty
of tho Chiof Exocutive to ttko action to rostrain such manouvers.
Tho prefectural governments cannot porform thoir duties nor can the
mounting oxpenso he justified for theso dupliccting branch offices and
agencios.
The Law Concerning Local hutonony cannct bo realized adequately
without cmple funds. The Loccl Financo Committee of the Diet has
this gract problem to solve. Every oitizen in Japan must meet this
issue in the intorest of his own village, town, oity end prefeoture.
The local finanoe problem must have an orrly practioel solution.
In this generel review of one of tho grart branohes of government,
I an certcin that oach person hero has visualized many moro issues
15

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.93)
that aro most signifiocnt and I shall wolocme any and all suggestions
tomorrow in the oonforenoos.
In closing, lot me stcto that tho record of tho governors to dato
has boon a most impros sive one. They must bo congratulated. From
my hoart I can do so freoly. Indeod, they havo oontributed to an
onrly mevomunt to build a domooratic looal government in the Now
Je.pan.
Dulivorod by:
Mr. Nichtul E. Nolon
Chiof, Tevm und Villago Brench

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.98)
SUPREME COMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Seotion
Looal Government Division
Paper No. 3
POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LEGISLATIVE BODY
The Law Conoerning Local Autonomy creates and establishes for
the first time in the long history of Japan village, towm, oity and
prefeotural assemblies with powers and responsibiities suoh as would
rank them with similar lezislative bodies in Bngland, Australia, New
Zealand, the United States and the Western domooracies.. In England
the counoils have always hold stoedfust for the peoples' desires, wants
and needs. In the Unitod States their role has not been as long but
they have been the great and roal lagislativo voioo of the people.
Under the cld Imporial Ordinanoes and Regulations concorning the
authority of sovernment officials, the Law Conoerning the Organization
of Urban and Rural Prefectures, tho Law Concerning the Organization of
Citios, the Law Conoerning the Organization of Towns and Villuges and
tthefr anforcenont ordinenoos, all the as semblies if viowed as logis-
latures wore wesk, impotent bodies. In more than one way they were not
only ineffootual to tho puople who ulgotod thom but also thoy were in-
offectual to thamselves. Tho assomblyman as a Iaw-maker in tho old
Japen had littlo power or authority. He mado reprosentations and
resolutions and rarely in Japan's history hus he had the logel position
in his own right to resist tho ohiof exocutive's pressuro for action.
Undor tho old rogimo, therufore, the assembly wes a hollow ropre-
sontction of a demoorctic logislativo body. It was too often the
rubbor stemp of a distent contrel govornmont or of somo agont of that
contral govornmont whose watohword vas nover moro than kanson mimpi.
Today the assombly is a logisleture of roal powor and rosponsibility.
It is a froo organ or agent of govornment. It is free to doliborato
-for the best intorosts of tho pooplo and as I shall make clear later, all
of tho actions taken by it are within tho Constitution and subjoot to
existing nationel laws, The people of the looal publio bodies now
have a now breath of lifo and they must dovolop and utiliso their

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.97)
assomblios to tho fullest oxtont.
Boouuso of my background and training, I am ploased to talk on
this subjeot to you all, beoauso first, many of tho peoplo hore uro
essomblymen, interestod in that genoral subjoot and second, tho
word "assonbly" brings baok to my momory ovonts of several yoars ago
whon I wns e member of tho Goneral Assombly of tho Stato of Ohio, one
of tho groat Status of tho United Statos of Amorioa. Ohio hes many
largo citios with thoir urben industrial problems and likowise it
oontains many acrys of somo of tho riohost farmland in tho Unitod
Str.tos. I, th roforo, fool as if I kmow porsonally somo of tho probloma
and issuus that constently bosot you who uro mombors of tho assombly
horo, both thoso from tho donsoly populatod urban oontors, and thoso from
tho rural aroas.
Momborship in c. logisletivs assonibly is an honor for whioh any
man or woman should bo proud. It is a trust whioh has boon placod in
you by others to aot for thom in matters whioh matorially affeot thoir
proporty, thoir woll boing. thoir happinoss, thoir froodom and evon
. thoir lifo itsolf. This honor today of boing an assomblyman in Japan
is groctor than it has ovor boun beforo boocuso as I havo said alroedy.
nover has tho assor.bly had th povors and tho rosponsibilities that it
has at prosont.
Tho assobly dorives its oxistonoo fundrnontally fron tho Constitu-
tion. Artiole 93 of this groat dooumont providos, "Tho loocl publio.
 ontitios shell ostablish assomblios fs thoir doliberativo organs, in
accordanco with lew." This is implomontod by tho Law Conoerning Looal
Autonomy, passod by tho Diot, whioh in Artiolo 89 stctes that "An
ordinery looal public body shall htva its Assambly."
A briof summary of tho moohanios of boooming an assomblyman or
tho moohanios of tho oporntion of an ussonbly is all that is nooossary
today. I am oortuin thnt. you cro moro familiar with thoso mattors than
I am. You know that any qualifiod votor twonty-fivo yoars of ago or
ovor is oligiblo for thu offioo (Artiolo 19) with tho exooption of 

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.96)
man or women holding a partioular position whioh booauso of tho naturo
of that position disquelifios him or her, such as (1) an olootion
officiel, (2) a public procurator (Articlo 21), (3) a mombo: of tho
Diot, (4) a paid official of tho local publio body conoernod (Artiolo
92). You know very woll, too, thnt tho torm of office is four yoars
(Articlo 93) and that tho assoniblyman is olootod by tho poople from
an oleotoral district (Artiolo 22) and that tho numbor of assomblymon
varios nccording to tho populction. (Artiolo 91).
Aftor its clootion tho assombly convonos to organizo itsolf to
carry out its rosponsibilitios. In gonoral throo perliamontary stops
aro takon: (1) Elpcts from its mon.bors a chairrian nd a vico-chairman
(Articlo 103). Tho chairman, (a) prosidcs at tho mooting, (b) maintuins
ordor and disoiplino tmong the spuctators or tho mombors thonsolvos, and
(o) conducts tho businoss which conos boforo tho assombly in an ordorly
fashion (Articlo 103, Soction IX). (2) Tho standing committoos rocoivo
thoir now moribors und spocial conmittoes may be appointod, and (3) Tho
Calondtr or cgunda is mado.
Tho importtnt prrt of tho formttion of tho assombly is tho faot
thet the Law roads thrt eny quelifiad oleotcr, with tho oxcoptions statod,
may bo c I ombor. Furth r, that tho : ssonblyaen is oloctod by tho pooplo.
Nowhero in tho Law is thoro a statoent that the quclifioution for an
assomblyaan is oven indirootly dopcndont upen ris boing (1) of a oortain
rank or olass, or (2) thtt ) bo possossod of a cortain portion of
the woalth of tho country, cithor in land or othor proporty. The
Law doos not stato anywhoro thrt thoro is a quclificction for voting
of rank, cltss, family or woalth. It statos olocrly that tho only
qualifioctions roquiro tho votor to roach a oortain ago and to bo a
rosidont of th, aroa cnd a citizon of Japan and nct subjoot to oortain
physioal or montal disqualifioations, nor has committod oortain aots
agcinst socioty. Today, thoroforo, you tro e pert cf an cssombly
froo from dominetion or control of smell groups. You cro roproson-
tativo of tho po plo at largo. In mcst solomn and tho highost of duty,
3.

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.97)
you are responsible to those same poople.
What oan the assombly do? What are its powers? The answore to
those important que'stions demand that all assomblymon give thon con-
tinuous thought. Tho ussomblyman hes hocrd sithor through the nowe-
papor or fror othor sources that he now possosses more powor and that
his position is moro inportant boocuse of inoreasod responsibilitios
and functions. Somo factors may intorvons which provent him from
exercising the powors fully and assuing tho rosponsibilitios. Tho
assonblytn often is not givon tho informttion whioh will givo him
tho facts. Evon worse is tho frot that ofton tho infcrmation is
withhald fror: him by cortain groups who aro avorso to losing tho powor
vhioh thoy onoo possossod. Thuso oortain pooplo aro prono to allow
those who now pcssoss the powor legclly to oxoreiso tho stro. Tho
assomblymtn himsolf though  ust mako ovory offort to obtnin the in-
formeticn ho noods to : dviso hir of his powors cnd rosponsibilitios.
Ho cranct rufrain frer: doing so. Io Iust do this to porform his
cutios adoqurtoly as in clocted ropr sontative of tho pocple. Ho
must stuay to Ccnstitution cnd tho Diot laws ind thon disouss thom
oarnostly vith his collat.guus cnd roighbours. Ho nust raad tho nows-
papors and liston to tho radio. Beccuso of roprosonting t! o pooplo
ho must bond all onorgy to bo ono of tho bost informod mon in his
distriot on ruttors of looal govornmont. Morocvor, end of utmost
significanoo is tho duty of this slootod roprosontrtivo to ropert baok
on whct ho hus boen doing to tho pooplo who olootod him. Ho stands
on his rocord at tho polls.
What cro sone of tho powors cnd responsibilitios of tho hssombly?
Tho powors of all tho local (ssen blios aro dorivod from tho Constitution,
Articlo 94, whioh rouds:
"Looal publio ontitips sht.ll hrvo tho right to
manago thoir propirty, affairs cnd administrction and
to ancot thoir own rogulations within law."
This:part of tho chcrtor of self-govornment is implomontod through

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.90)
laws pt:ssod by the Dict. For solf-govornmont tho prinoipal law of
thom cll. is Tho Low Concorning Loocl Lutoneny. Lot us first rofer
to irticlo 14 of that lcw which roads ns follows:
"In crdinary looal public body mny promulgato any by-
law on affcirs monticnod in paregraph 2 in irticlo 2, unloss
tho by-law contravenes the netional law, cabinet order and
ninistcricl romlation duly cuthorizod by lew.
"Tho locrl putlic ontity shall stipulete its disposition
of the arinistretive affairs by its by-law unloss othur-
wise provided by tho neticnal luw, oabinot crder cnd minis-
t rial rogulatien duly cuthorizod by low.
"Tho precuoturai govorn ent vcy stipuleto tho disposition
cf th cdr inistrativo afftirs f tho city, town cnd villego
by its by-lrw unl ss cthorvis. providod by the nationel law,
cubin t ora r d : inistorinl rgul tion culy tutherizd by
lav:.
"If the sity town cnd villrro by-law rost rdiny tho
dispositiri c? th ud.inistre civ cffcirs centravonus, to thet
of the pr fecture  ontic.d i. the nbove clcuse, it shall
boullndvi.
"Th. lucr 1 putlic untity nay stipulcte by its by-law
tho impositi a (f the i priser ont with or withcut hard
Irber aot xein tt yrs, tho fino net xocuding Y1oo,00o,
the d t itien, o:ro ur confiscrtion fer the violctica of
its by-l: w ual sa (th: rvise pruvided by tho nctional law,
cnbinet rder ond : inist ri I r ulr tion duly uuti.orizod by law.
"The cri..: soicifi e in the procading clause falls undor
tho jurisdictien of the nation: 1 ccurt."
Irtiol. 11  pewers th. pr f ctur1 ussonbly und c1l ussoablios
fur that rr tter t: saret uny by-lrw, wiioh it doms fit in regards
to th, ffairs of tho lconl ntity, prvi led thxt it is net contrary
to tho Constitution (r tr't it dous not contrevono : lew pessod by tho
lntionnl Di t. P subject mrttor ef these by-luws onn bo and is wido
and voried, roai frer by-lovs regul: ti treffic to by-lews lovying
toxos p cessery for tho (piration of the lconl itity. I shall cito
a fow xempl's f po rs ef tho lre 1 overnent for which it night
bo nocesscry nd pessibl fer n osobly to onnct by-laws or roso-
luticns:
1.  To rnintrin local public creor, prettct aid prosorve end
caro for tho sufoty, hutlth, confert cnd gonural w lfre of tho in-.
habitents nd visitors.

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.97)
2. To establish, construct and administer the parks, pleysr
voirs, irrigation and drainage waterways and dykes, end to'grant right
to use them.
3. To manage water plents and weter supply, sewerage systems,
electrio plents and distribution systema, gas plants, street-par ser
vices, cutomobile services, vessols and other transportation systome,
and other services.
4. To establish, construot and aduinister dooks, moles, pier,
wharves, lighthouses, warehouses, sheds end other struotures necessary
for other see and land carriage and/or to grant rights to use them.
5. To establish, construct tnd odministor shools, leboratories,
experimental strtions, libraries, museums, art museums, goods exhibitions,
auditoriuns, thectres, musical pavilions and other struotures conoorn-
ing eduoction, literary cccomplisimants, culture and promotion of in-
dustries and/or to grent rights to use thom.
6. To estcblish, ccnstruct cnd administor the hospitals, iso-
lation wards, sanitorie, disinfeoting stations, lying-in stations,
residenoes, lodgings, dining-hells, beths, publio latrines, pawm-shops,
workhouses, publio nurseries, csyla for tha aged, almshouses, reform-
atories, jails, butoheries, dust-disposing stutions, dirt-disposing
stations, orematories, camatries and other structures congerning
safety, health, end sooirl 'welfare.
7. To oloan, disinfect, beautify, cnd prevent from noises or to
restrcin publio morals cnd notion profaning cleenlinoss and besides
to administer tle rettors oonoorning refinomont of safaty, health and
sooicl wolfare.
8. To protect ageinst orininel offenses, to prevent from disasters,
to make rosoue at disesters and to roliove tho sufferors.
9. To relieve, instruot and care for minor, poor, sick, old and
weak, widow, defeotive, vagrant, insane or inebricte persons and others.
6.

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.94)
10. To manage forost, ranch, markots, fishing water surface,
public work houses and bes des to undorteke for profit works oon-
sidered as necesstry in order to promote publio welfare.
li. To carry out hill end river improvemunts, farm oultivations,
edjustmonts of ereble lend, roclametions of land from publio.sea,
oity plans, improvoment of distriot undor poor condition and other
improvemonts of lenl.
12. To mon: o efreirs conoorning iavention, botternont or pro-
toction cnd promction of specinl prcducts oto., inoreuse of other
productions and undortaking of industries.
13. To protoot rd meucgo historic pluces, places of soenio.
beauty, end othor romontrancus.
14. To investiato an? nnk statistios of tho matters nogessary
for disposrl of afftirs of c loorl publio body.
心
15. To meatgo the tffeirs r lotin: to onu.eration, identification
and registering ctc., concerning the inhcbitcnts, visitors thereto
and other persons recognized as necessary.
16. To inspoot moters, all sorts of produce, donestio enimels.
17. To mako restrcint concernin, struoture of building, equipment,
the tror of yrrds, ccurts, donsity, opon spaoos, distriots, dwellings,
tho t recs cn tho basis of spacs, lidustry  ad other business of in-
habitants in cooordanco with tho doturminnticn o? lcvs.
18. To rogulrto coouprtion or businass or to grant it for tho srlo
of loorl public welf:re.
19. To approprit to, aiter upon end hold parsonel or real proporty
for cmy loccl publio purposo in "ccordance with tho cetorminetion of
laws.
20. To adjust cnd coordinntu ths cotivitius of tho bodies within
the tren of an orctarry loocl publi• hody.
21. To lovy and oolluot looul taxes, rents, feos, alloted oharges,
antrcnoe foes, or strtutory labor and aotual artioles.
7.

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.97)
22. To oreate and mancge the permenent property, sinking funde
and besides the reserve fund and grein.
23. To datormine the estimated annucl revenue end expenditure.
24. To approve of a report of the final coccunts.
25. To make refund of nonoys peid for looel taxes, rents, fees,
allotod chtrges, entrence fees or statutory lubor and actuel artioles
unlrwfully luvied or oharged.
26. To take or dispose of propurty end to estcblish or dispose
of structures.
27. To assume tew dutias, to tako hy oherged gift, grant, bequest
or devise and to waive rights.
28. To make contracts.
29. To handlo matters rolrting to filing of objoction, the appeel,
action reconciliation, intermodiation, arbitration end pecae-making.
30. To deternino tho tmounts of compansation for legal demeges.
31. To handle metters riicting t• the adjustment and ocoordina-
tion of tho activities of the bodios within the area of an ordinary
loccl public body.
An cssembly elso hcs the power to regulate itself and determino to
a certcin extent its own membershir. This power in itself is very
important as it could deprive the elootorete for a certain period of
timo of full reprosentation. This powor is exeroised by the Assembly
when it passes on certuin quelificttions of its members and when it
exercises its right to disciplino its mumbors for misconduct even to the
extent of expulsinn. This right of discipline must alweys be exeroised
with e greet decl of ouution as the Assembly must romomber thet the
person being disoiplined hes boen elucted by the poople and the people
will be, et the next eluotion, the finel judge of the momber. (Seotion
IX).
Some of the most far reaohing powers ever to be exeroised by an
assembly in Japan are provided in Artiole loo. It is often necessary
for an assembly during the course of its existence to investigate the

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.98)
affairs of the local entity and during the investigation to
dertain information. The assembly as it may deem neoesmary. or
committee (as will be shewn in a later paper) conduoting the in
gation, has the power to summon persons to give information. Thim
person must appear. If the assembly determines that this persen has
given a false statement, he is subjeot to imprisonment. If, however.
prior to the oonolusion of the investigation. he tells the truth, then
the assembly may not refer the porson to the proourator for prosooution.
The essembly itself has no power to infliot punishment; it can only
rofer the facts to the proourator for whatever aotion he may deoide to
take.
Cne olass of persons is exempt from testifying pefore the
assembly during the course of investigation. This exemption applies
to a porson who is celled upon t• give testimony or prosent reoards
whioh he belioves to be official seorets. Under thi oondition he
oan so declare to the assembly. The assembly must then obtain the
consent of the governnent or publio offioe ancerned before the person
is foreed to give the testimony or produo thelreoords. If within
30 days after being requested, the governmont o publie offioial (1)
dees not deglare the matter in question opntrary to the publio in-
terest if disolosed, or (2) gives its consont, thon the testimony must
be given or the records produoed. (Artile l00)
This power given to essemblies to investigate is extremely im-
portant as it may involve the right of the essembly to question the
aots of thu ohief of the local publio body by demanding reports and
examining his manegement of the affeirs of the looal body, his method
of exeoution of resolutions and the manner of raising revenue and the
expenditure thoreof. (Artioles 98 and 121) I do not have to remark
that sueh a profound and sober condition simply could not have existed
under the old laws and Imperial ordinanoos. This great ohange, how-
ever, is precisoly as it should be.
9.

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.92)
This does not apply to the management of looal affairs only.
It also applies to national affairs dolegeted to the ohief of the
looal publio body. If the matters cre conoerned with the publie
benefit, a written statement can be sent to the administrative offie
concerned. (Artiolo 99).
This powerto ocll an offioial of the local government to report
or meke explanation is not linited to the ohief of the looal publio
body. It applies equally to eny offioial including the eleotion
administration connittue and the inspootion conmittee. (Artiole 121)
Tho assembly nuod not oonduct the investigation itself but may
call upon the inspeotion committee to make an inspeotion of the afrairs
of the loorl publio body cnd upon oonapletion of its inspection to
make e report to the assombly. This should be the normal prooodure
for routine inspeotors or investigators as the inspeotion committee
ofton are wembors of the assumbly. (Artioles 98, 195 and 199).
The question of finences is always E mattor of major importande
to any publio untity, for without funds it is impossible to operate.
Practically overy mattor which comos before the Assembly involves
tho quastion of finnnce cnd it must ho considorod by the assambly. Be-
cause of its importance tho assombly has boon given great power in
this field. This power is cn which is oftun thusod by the body to which
it is givon.
The assonblyitn too fruquently forgets that it is the
oney of the peopl whict in bei w.sted when he approves extravagent
oxpenditurus for umocussary ratters. The tesoroly in Its approval of
the budgut has an po rt ity t to or she rotteat benefit to the
peopl in utormirin nooserpr prirtrs d in striking out
unooossary oxpunditurus.
 so rt lyn, uspecit lly in thesu trying
:nys
, must sorutinizo gurefully uvery itom contained
in the budget, tnd if thure s uy ita on which ho is doubtful, he
4
should orIl ror tn  tequt to uxplenrt.on bofere proval.
9
It should naver he forpotten in the appruval of an expenditure
of covurmaent funds that those funds are only cbtalnable by taxation.
20。

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.96)
chargos, licenses or other forrs of rovenue whioh wust be obtained from
tho pooplo. All forms of taxation aro unpopular no matter how worthy
tho purpcso. It is norral for paoplo to desiro all of tho benofits of
governont without ccst to thom. Tho assoribly in its doliberations on
tho question of lovyin: tuxos must alwnys koop in mind the faot that
tho powor to tax is tho power to destroy. No tax is a propor tax which
dostroys tho objoot cf texation tnd this can be dono by lovying ox-
oossive taxus boycn: all recscnablo cbility to pay.
Tho chiof of tho loccl publio body hcs the responsibility of
proprring tho tudgot but tho fintl ros onsibility rosts in tho aasombly
us it has the power to rovise or oxpulgo before final approval. Hero
ngain ns all of you will realizs, c. long road hns como to an end. How
differant the powor is toicy for the assenbly from the laok of it
undor the cld laws! The work of tho ssombly in rugard to tho reooipts
and uxpundituros is not conploted upon approval of tho budget. In
additiun, tho assembly is infcrmed of proper acocunts through the
audit of the roocipts and oxponditure. (Artiole 240).
Praotionlly ovory financial transcotion of tho looal publio body
: ust bo approvo? by tho ussonbly or conduotod in aocord with a by-law
proviously adoptod. The rcunt of scliry und cllowanoes of publio
officials und employees (Chepter VIII) tho obtaining of c. looal loan
(Articlo 226), the estrblishr ont cf a spooinl rooount (1rtiole 239) and
i.tny other nattors t.ll roquiru coticn on tho part of tho assombly.
Tho assoribly has runy dutius in rcyards to tho appointmont and
disr issal of porscnnol cf the lootl publio body. This rosponsibility
mey dotcr.ine the offioiency of tho oporction of the local publio body.
It is tc bo hopod that this will tako plaoo.
Tho ussombly olaots thu uloctcral adninistration ocnmittee whioh
contrcls tho olootion nnchinory of tho lcocl publio body. (Artiole 182).
An honost oloctcral arinistrction oummittee, ono whioh is not subjeot
to oorrupt influonoe, ocn prrotioully provont ourrupt praotioo in an
11

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.94)
olection and insuro the Glootorate that their oandidato will rogeive
a fair and honost count. Honost clootions aro fundamental to good
govorn:ont.
Tho inspooticn ocmissicners aro app intod with the consent of
tho assorbly. Thoir cuties as watohoogs of tho govornmont, to pre-
vont inprcper praotico upon tho pirt of tho publio cfficials, is of
oxtrome inprrtanoe. many officials, while not lishonest, cro subjeot
oithur t making or boocning involved in mistakes. Thoso mistakes
aro detrirentrl tc tho people tho stue as are unluwful aots. Thero-
fore, it is ussential thct the inspooticn comissioner bo &. porson
who. sholl bo alort to otuot b th honust mistekes and unlnwful aots
in tinu to prevent thul bcth. (Artiole l92).
Tho power of rt tificrtica of tho ussombly is a strong ono. The
vice-everner and certtin eth r fficinls aro appointed by the govornor
but the oonsunt of tho tssubly is roquiro! te ccmploto the aoticn.
Likowiso, tiesu puoplo can bo ruove: by thu assembly oithor by petition
of the olecterato cr en its wn initintive. In tho criginal uppointmont
tho number of officirls is controllod by by-law. Tho assorbly maintains
by this cuthority a close oheck on tho activitios of the oxooutive and
administrativo branohes of the  voraiont. (irticle 162, 86 and 87).
In adeitirn to tho puwors end functions alreeay roforred to, the
Assorbly, as you woll kucw, his iny additional powors and funotions, all
of whioh cre important whon ruquired to bo uxercisod. Let mo rofer to
such mattors as (1) ceturminin: or chunging tho Iccation of the uffioo
of tho publio body.(irtiolo 4), (2) disposiny cf proporty as a rosult
of a bcundary changu (irtiolo 7). (3) roooiving roports from various
oomritteos and officitls, (4) ontorin: into nutual cgrooments for the
croation (f a prticl affuirs ussocirtion (irtiolo 284), (5) conduoting
hecrings for omployuos whe foul a greivod at the allowanoos mado tc
then (Artlolo 206), and many mrro, sufficiunt to koop an assomblyman
always busy. Did I reclly hear scmoone stcto that the assemblyman
roally had nothing to dc? Every prefootural casombly oould be as busy
.
12.

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.97)
with prefeotural affairs as the National Diet has been with
matters!
Thore are cortain affairs of n puroly national character whioh be
long to the contral govornment. The assembly of tho looal publio
bodies should not exerciso any power over them. They are as followe
1. Iffairs concorning judioial administration.
2. Affairs ooncerning poncl and nrtional disoiplinary punishment.
3.
National transportation and communioation affairs.
4.
Postal nffairs.
5.
Netional institutions cf learning and researoh.
6.
National hospitals and institutions of medioal trectment.
7. Naticnal navigation, metecrologioel and hydrographio funotions.
8. National musoums an: librarios.
The assombly has cnly onc prinoiple rosponsibility and that is the
obligation to oxoroise its funotions with a viow to the promotion of the
interosts of tho pocple of tho loorl publio ontity. I do not mean fust
those peoplo who voto? but I moan all of tho inhabitants of tho looal
body.
Tho quostion that shcul: alwnys be paramount in the mind of tho
assomblyman is how, as a culy oloctod c.ssomblyman, one in whom the poople
have reposed thoir faith, oan ho bost fulfil this obligation.
An assorbly is mado up cf a wido variety of persons, sómo farmers,
somo lawyors, soo cootcrs, somo norohants, some workmen, some industrial-
ists, cnd seme of various other vocations and professicns. Rightfully
sol It shculc, if it is to bo truly reprosontative of all tho poople.
Many of tho asson.blyon wore elooted as members cf various politidal
portios. Thoy woro elootod with the holp'and assistanoe of oertain
groups, the laboror acy heave had tho backing of his union, the fisherman
tho baoking, of his ocoperative, but cftor tho oandidate .is oleoted, he
is a mombor cf the rssombly represonting to the bost cf his ability alr
of the. peoplo all tho timo. Ho is not fust representing tho speoial
group which supported hin in the oleoticn. He is a ropresentativo. Be

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.96)
is not a simple delegate to a rally or gonvention. Please think
carefully and regularly upon this vital point: You aro a represen-
tative not a dolegate. An assemblyman, therofore, is a sorvant of
all of tho poople, all cf the timo.
Thu Law Concerning Loccl Autcnomy reocgnizes this faot in numerous
articlos. Thus, all by-laws onaoted by the assombly shall be publioly
announood in conformity with e statod for. of publio notice (irtiolo 16)
and all sossicns sht.ll bo cpon to tho publio oxoept upcn oertain oocasion
seorut sossions may bo hold, henco giving the publio knowlodge of tho
aotivities f the cssembly.
Thus ftr wo havo had many points tc disouss. In this pleasant
hour with you, I wish to locvo for your dcily thcught and aotion
ono final issuc -- if you plocso -- an issuo whioh has no compromise
when it is put to tho tost.
Loadership is essonticl in an assobly ns it is assontial in all
groups of pocple in crdur to lchievo a dofinito goul. Without good
pcrliar.ontry leadorship you havo t. looso grouping of individuals
arriving at a monmontary cuurso of action; nevor is tho cotion a
parlianontary docisicn. This dofents the goal cf all legislative
bidios to onect scund logislrtion. Loadorship and diotatcrship aro two
widoly cifforont thins. Londorship is to guido; dictatorship is to
Cominoor. Londorship has a dufinito plcce in an assembly but diotator-
ship has nc placo. Tho chicf cf a lcoal publio body, booauso of his
intineto kn wlodgo of tho noods of co? logislrtion, can be of groat
assistanco to tho bost intorosts of tho puoplo by suggosting to the
assombly ccursos cf coticn nuoossary for tho ccnduot cf the affairs
of the public body. By loadership, nuvor dictatorship, he can guide
the legislation thrcugh to enectront.
Lot.dorship, though, rust bu dovolcpod in strength as to be un-
challengeablo within the asseibly itself. Frcm this cay fcrward you
oannct rely ocnstantly, as bofcro, upcn loadership frch without.' The
asserblyman must fariliarize himsolf with the noods and dosires of his
14。

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
constitutonts and upcn his am initiative, bring forward a host of
now idocs tc be introduced intc pcsitive legisletion. Through his owm
loadorship, by lcgioal disoussion, crgument and debate, he should seo
thet this logislation is onaoted. The assomblymen, unless ho exeroisos
this ri ht cf lorcership whioh is givan him by law, botrays the trust
ivon to him by tho oluoturate who havo olsotod him to reprosent
their wishes an? dosiros. In adcition, the vcturs domand that ho use
scun? judgmont fir their bost interosts, that he stap being only. the
acho of a scuroo far ror ovod from thom. Now is tho time for the
assemtlyman to gresp this oppcrtiunity to bo the luader. portray to the
olootorrto that ho oan think fcr hinself und that in tho oonduot of
the uffairs cf the assombly ho cots in unhanpered nanner.
Finelly, thoroforo, act for ycursolvos. Dr not bo dissuaded by
someono whe states thit what you aro proposing is wrong, thet it is
ungcnstituticnal, that it is not lural, cr that sunoone olso might bo
cr could bo responsiblo fur tho cotion whioh you cro taking. The
Crurts and tho Crurts alono strto what is logal and what is not legal.
Tho ovorner na tho rdninistrators ocnnot de this for you nor should
thoir pini ns uc r.ttor how sinoure, step your notion. Your aotion
is sinoore t c! This difforcnoo f sinooro opinicn whon put into the
law oos tc tho courts. As ussonbly on, ycu must rest your ocse there
cn! in no cthor plaoo. This is the chcraotor whioh you must possess.
You cannot bo dofoutod in your purposo by side lino yepping and sniping.
In thor wor's, plpasu prcducel In the last analysis in a democraoy
tho r at issues are sottlo at tho polls in tho Bar of Publio Opinion.
Mr. Chairun und Guusts, in clcsing, I dosiro to qucto tc you
part of a lottor writton many yours cge by in orinont membor of the
British Parliaont, ant alvcoate (f oivil libortios, Eimund Burke, in
whioh ho sc cbly exprosso? tho rolaticnship whioh he thcught should
exist betwoan cn assomblyaan and his olootorate:
"It ought to bo the happinoss ane glcry of a
roprosentntivo to live in thu striotost unicn, the
olosest onrresponconoe an? tho mest univorsal

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.95)
communioaticn with his oonstitutents. Their wishes
ought to have grect weight with him, their opinion
high rospeot, their businoess unronitting, ettention.
It is his duty to saorifioo his ropose, his pleasures,
his sutisfactions to thuirs; and abcvo all, and in all
onses, to prefor thoir intorosts to his cwm.
"Best, his unbiassod opinicn, his mcturo judgment,
his onlightone? ornscionce he cught not to saorifioo to
you, to tay man, cr any sot cf mun living. Theso he
doos not derivo frem your plensure, nor, fron the law
and tho constituticn. Thoy are a trust frcm Pruvidonoo,
fer tho ahuso of wtioh he is dooply tnswerablo.
"Your ropresuntrtivo cwos to you, not his industry alone,
but his jud mont, and ho batruys, instoad cf sorving, you
if h. sacrificus it to yrur cpinicn.
"Ic clivor an opini'n is tho right of all r.en, that
cf ocnstitutonts is a weighty an? ruspootcblo opinion whioh a
ruprosontutivo cu ht alvays to rejoioc tr hour und whioh ho
ought clways must soricusly ocnsidor."
A loislativo boy, whrse ner bers have boan hcnestly eleoted,
freely doliberatin;  thc prcblos whioh confrcnt it, in ocoperation
with the exocutivo an' his admiaistratirn, is bcund to produoa a
domccretio local sovernont, subsorviont only tc ono -- tho pecplo.
What limits ctunnot bo remohod in the Now Japen with suoh high
idoals?
Dolivsred by:
Mr. Howard D. Portor
Chicf, Profoctural Brtnch
16.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.98)
SUPREE COGLNDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Governmont Seotion..
Local Governtent Division
Paper No. 4.
ADMINISTRI.TION, FUNCTIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
The officials of departments and seotions, the seoretariat and
the asseably's staff compose the administration of the mura, maohi,
shi and fukon. In general, the officials of the adninistration oom-
pose the Civil Service. These officials ere also called a bureauoraoy.
Thore is but one tnd only one justification for the existenoe of a
Civil Service or bureeuoraoy in a demooratio form of government. The
justifioction is to serve the publio. ihenever there is a deviction
from this prinoiple, the sovereignty of the peoplo is betrayed.
In the representctive form of government, a legislature exists
to give the people, by proper legislation, solution to their needs
and wants. The ohief exeoutive, with either his large or small ad-
ministrative steff, hes the funotion of putting these laws into exeou-
tion. Tho Civil Service forms the foundation of any government to
carry out the diroctions of tho laws as tho uxeoutive may require and
as the rulos, proceduros and rogulations provide. The judiciary. as
many may well know, exists to deolcre whet laws and aotions are within
and what laws and aotions are without the ccnstitutional framework
of govornment. Eaoh of those branohos of demooratio government oheokn
upon oaoh other, one is not to intrude on the other's funot:on.
In tho large modern governments of today bureauoraoies are necessary.
The public funotions performed by the governments requiro the employ-
ment of several millions of persons. This faot alone necessitates an
intricate, formal organization, innumerable degrees of speoialization
in training, skill and exporienoe, and continuity of servioe. The
exeoution, therefore, of theso extensive and great publio affairs
develops a burocuoraoy. The essential goel in the developmunt and in the
adequate administration of the bureauoraoy is to have it perform daily

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.97)
in the manner consistent with the basio conoopt of representative
government -- shuken toshito no kokumin. Speoifioally, in the modern
domooratio governments the problom is that of making the bureauoraoy
sorve the poople, or, most simply statod, making the bureauoraoy en-
foroe the law. The bureauoraoy does not make the law, as I havo already
said.
Tho position of tho administretion is, therefore, olear/in a
domooraoy: The civil servint sooures his cr hor position through
appointmont after exuminations and interviow. Onoe appointod, howover,
he or sho, preciscly like thoso persons coming into offioo direotly
as a result cf t he ballot, hes tho one duty of sorving tho poople
loyally es long as his or hor tonure lasts.
Tho chroniclo of the Civil Sorvioo in world history shows yery
cloarly the ovils which the peoplo of tho nations heve suffered whon
tho allogiance of adninistration has boon shifted away from the main
goal which, as I havo statud, is sarvico to the poopla.
In tho oonturius prst, the administrative officials gave their
full enurgics to serving tho crown, no matter on whose head it rested,
benovolont or cruol, sane or insane. In zestful eagernoss to aohieve
porscnal favor, thosa administrutors herded and hounded the populaoe.
There was suoh complote isclation of tho poople thomsolvos (as tax-
payers) thet the rogimontation burst in viclont revolutions, as
French history domonstratos; bruto foroos mado tho ohange. Upon
this point many people must cast thcughtful glanoes backwards.
Thoso pooplo, of oourso, must hopo that tho inoidonts aro far bohind
In England's historio past tho Civil Servioo onoe servod the
monaroh only, then sorved only Parliamont; the bad ocnditions within
themselvos forced a healthy chenge, thus romodying the ovil.
In the Unitod States one hundred years ago tho administrativo
officials sorvod but tho politicnl parties, olootion after oleotion.
This typo of plunder satisfied hosts of puople and dissatisfiod only
a knowing few. Nothing in a logal way was done in tho first one hundred
182-

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.98)
years of the Amorioan Ropublio to dovelop a sound publio persos
policy. The first six presidents did not recognise the neoosaity
the problem. They made their appointments upon morit as a rulo
without examinations of a formal oharaoter. The Offico lot of 1s ay
1820 provided a maximum term of four years for numorous governmontal
positions so as to allcw the proper dismissal of dishonost and in-
officiont personnel as well as to provide a regular turnover, meroly
to assure good administration. Excessive politioal aotivity of all
appointed to cffice, hcwever, roversed the situation whioh I stated
c.bove. 1. host of persons wore dissatisfied and only a few remainod
satisfied. Too meny of the appointees did nothing but attend to party
organization in thoir offioos on government hours of time; they gavo
too little of their efforts to the office of government. The appointees
were forced to pay oonsiderable sums from thoir selaries to tho party
funds whioh thoy soon loarned wont int: the pookots of those who se-,
oured their appointments. For some yeers, however, perty organization
continuod to demand as a mettor of simple right asses sments from party
membors.
Gradually, and in demcoretic mannor, laws wore passod whioh oorrooted
the "Spoils Systom" by inaugurcting a Civil Sorvico. Ono of tho pur-
poses of the Law was to stop tho porty cr political assossmonts evil.
Today Fedoral laws forbid any United States Sonator, Representative or
other officeholder direotly or indireotly to solioit or to roooivo any
assessment, subsoription or contribution from any other officer or
omployoo in tho Sorvice. It also makos illogal any suoh solicitation
in any Fedorcl building or place usod for the purpose of the national
government. Violators are, thereforo, guilty of a gross misdemoenor
and are subjeot to fine of not over 5,Co0, imprisonment for not over
three years, or both. Many states have similar laws and rogulations.
The Civil Sorvice in the United States, was, thorofore, evolvod over
many years to produoo a loyalty of servioe to the peoplo, the people
mot their conditions squarely with appropriato lawa.

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.98)
The history of administration in Japan, of couraeie a 1
chroniole of a relatively small group of people. My remarke
ooncern only a short period of time. There is little need to
relate events of the Tokugawa Bakufu. All here are familier with
that three hundred year record of control, control, control, ll
here know of the penalties whioh were inflioted when administrators
found or oaught erring souls! The modern bureauoraoy in Japan today
had its foundation in the middle of the Meiji Era. It is about thio
that I wish to review some facts and to offer some thoughts.
What were the oonditions under whioh the Japanese modern
buroauoraoy was established? You all know better than do I the
details of the deoisions whioh the young leadors surrounding the oven
younger Meiji mado. One groat frot stands out, however, through the
ontire Era, and that was the everlasting.dotermination of the Hanbatou
to retain the power of government not only for the Emperor, but also
for themselves. A rather remarkable ohein of oiroumstanoes permitted
the Hanbatsu to aooomplish their willful purpose. Within his iron
will and undor his ounriing and adroit maneuverings, Prinoe Yamagata
developed a bureauoratio notwork, the like of which the world has.
rarely seon.
The Continental Systom of govornmont, as has been releted in
another paper, pleased Iwakura, Itō and especielly Yemagata. The
Prussian Viotory. which orushed tho Frenoh in 1871 dazzled the Japanese
students of government. High offioials end some soholars of the new
unifiod Gormany inveigled them into believing that the Prussian System
of cuthoritarian controls was the Western answer to Japanose probloms.
Yamagata did not deviate from his course of aotion. Ls Naimu Kyo he
took control of domestio affairs cnd formalized the elements of his
plan. ks Naimu Deijin, aftor the Cabinot System-was adopted, for
five years ho uxplored further, onlargod tho numbor of offioials; and
extended the limits of thoir powors and his systqm. Tho Prinoe.
cementing his Kanryo Seiji over all the land, soon ecrnod the name

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.98)
Kanryo shugiaha, whioh the newamen ooined for him.
In building his kanryo seiji Yamagata wielded tremondous in-
fluence and, in so doing, built oareers for some and wreoked those
who opposed him. Yamagata as a Hanbatsu statesman developod a
satenio polioy of offooting libercl measures at one instant and of
mitigating thom promptly at cnother. The Chosonsei, the Shisei and
the Gunsei appear to be liberal steps. The term of self-governmont
is omployed, but that is all that oan be said. Yamagata had the looal
officials so heavily supervised by national agents that no broath
of fresh air was frequent enough to prevent suffooation.. Eyen. though
the Fukensei becemo a Diot Law, it was in many ways vitiated by the
continuous power of the Chihckankansei of 20 July 19 Meiji. Yamagata'
policy, unfortunately for the Jepeheso taxpayers, has porvaded the
kanryo too long. L sories of buroauoratio gonerations has grorm up.
I heve been talking cs though this one strong person was responsible
for it all. Suoh is not so; tho blemo hes to bo borne by others too.
Under an authoritarien, highly oontrelized, highly oliquish
buroauoraoy, the administratcrs "ocn cfford to be" arbitrary and ourt
to the publio. . They have takon the vov. to be loyal to anyone but those
people whose tax monoy furnishos them with a livelihood. The laws
have been made fcr ooryone else but them, and the roason thet the
kanryo knows this is beoauso they praotioe it! What more is noeded?
Under suoh oonditions the kanryo oan even bo guilty of fushinsetsu.
To my regrot, in my travels, I havo hoard that ono of the reasons for
the publio oontinually losing oonfidence in the kanryo is beoause of
this very faot. Why should Suzuki-Kun have all the trouble that he
enoounters with the madoguohi shugi? Will the person who stands thore
never show any friondly interost in tho problems of Suzuki-Kun? When
ho goes into the inside office, why must he be foroed to look ct the
kanryo behind the dosk with a long face, . on suoh a vory long face that
no barber oould make any money shaving it? Will the man behind the
desk renember how bad he is, in so doing? He should. The people

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.96)
of Japan today, I am oertain, are weary of hambun jokurei day in
and day out. And when a business man comes for an answer to a
pressing problem he receives no enswer. Why? The kanryo is too
absorbod in his kijyo no plen! Is thero any wonder why Suzuld-kun is
angerod? Ho has a right to be so.
The Chihojichiho in Article 158 establishes the departmont or bu as
7
the highost administrativo division in tho prefectural government.
Within the dopartment or bu are tho sections or ka and within those,
in turn, cro the units or knkari. Bofore the onectmont of the
Chihōjichihō
the department was an integral division of the old
governnontal systom; it was a part of tho buroaucratio ladder of
organization. Tho official as buohō lookod with longing eyos toward
Tōkyō for roocgniticn and prcmotion. Today that system does not
1
oxist. Trday the official on bucoming buohō has reached the highest
administrative uffice in the looal autcnomous system. Today within
this sphore of jurisdicticn tho buohō corresponds prooisely to the
post of kyō-i cho within tho noticnal sphere of jurisdiotion.
Is ropresontative L. vernment duvelops in practice more and more in
Je.pan, tho realizaticn of what I havo boon stating will be groater
and greator tc all. The detrils of crganization of Civil Service for
tho looel public  'ips will bo prcvided for by the Diot; sclootion,
plrcomant, trcinin, prr.otion, dismissal, retiroment, sa ary, ponsion
and suoh rolated affuirs will composo tho substanoe of tho laws
Tho structuro of tho administrative dopartments affeots eaoh
1
one of you and is, therefcre, cf ycur conoern diroctly. It has been
desirable to continue the developmont of the struoture of the de-
pertmonts in harmony with a prinoiplo of govornment whioh has been
utilizod by wostorn ccuntries as woll e.s by Japan itself for a
half contury; thus tho division cf fixod and parmissive ontegories
for depertmonts has beon retainod. It has been doslrablo to have
suoh dopartments as aro busio to all prefeoturus tho scme beoause
of the advantage of simplicity and uniformity. In other words, the

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.98)
major funotions and operations of profeotural governments in their
partments. It must be romembered here that these offices whioh are
in the vertioal or single line of nationaI authority are not in-
oluded here. Beceuse of some prefeoturos having divergent interestm
with a major volume of business, it is desirable that a series of
permissive departments bo allowed so that these looal speoialities
can be porformod. This flexible feature is most desireble. The
stated limit of the permissive dopartments is also advantageous, as it
allows for conservative oxpansion. It would be odd government in
prinoiple, not to say costly government in oparation, were all
prefeotures to begin with the meximum and then start in the program
of contraotion. As offioiels of experionoo and treining eaoh of
you knows the many diffioulties of administration and personmel
whioh are bound up in e progrum of contraotion. It is most de-
sirable that officials in all the looal lovels now beoome
spocialists in particular fields of knowledgo, rather than to
continue the progrem of specialty administretion.
Tho Chihojiohihō in Artiolo 158 provides for the prefeotural
departmental organization. The mandatory olass contains the de-
partmonts of General Affairs, Haalth,lEduoation, Welfare, Eoonomio
Affairs, Agrioultural Land and Publio Vorks, and the pormissive
olass oontains the dopartments of Agrioulture and Forestry, Forestry,
Commerco end Industry, Labor, Fishories and Publio Utilities. In
Tōkyö-To and Hokkaido some few variations will ba found. The Law
makes quite olear that no prefeoture need form a permissive depart-
mont unless the prefootural government desires to do so. The
Contral ministries in Tōkyo oan suggest that the pormissive depart-
monts be established; the suggostion, suoh as it is, may be taken or
may not bo. Under no oonditions oan the Central ministries order
the partiouler permissivo department established. The proféotural
authorities should bo partioularly oareful in this rogard.

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.98)
This struoture, as providod in Artiole 158, ham
by itself to accomplish all the work necessary to adminie
the prefeotural govornment, not only in its looal charnotor 
funotioning looally, but also in its national oharaotor in fumoli
ing nationally. Tho continuous establishmont boside the prefpoture
office of national branoh offioes of a duplioating and overlapping
charaotor should be stopped at once. Such a flood of Kanryo over
Japan is worso than nanking mushi. While they mako in ono bite
only two holes, the kanryo make many holes whioh ere bottomless
so far as taxes are conoerned. The profootural authorities should
provent suoh mismanagenent.. Thoy have tho lagal power for many
cases under Artiole 156, whioh states:
"No looal branoh offioe (inoluding fixed staff. The
same rule shall apply horein and hereaftor) shall be
opened by eny Ministry or Central Governmental agenoy
horoafter without first being authorized by the Diot.
All funds neoded in connootion with the operation and
funotion of suoh authorized branoh offioes shall be paid
for by Ministry or Contral agenoy conoerned.
The provisions of the preoeding peregraph shall not
apply to tho judioiel administrative and disoiplinary
organs, polioe officos, railroad, conrunications, postal
servioos, (including insurance and savings divisions),
national institutions of learning, national hospitals,
and sanitariums,,navigation, motoorologioal stations,
hydrographio organs, harbor construotion offioes, and
forestry stations and publio works branoh offices whose
funotions are solely supportod by the national troasury.
The officials who compose tho bureauoraoy in the mura, machi,
shi and fukon havo beforo them today truly groat opportunitios to
dovelop notable oarsers. Notablo, I repeat, booauso they oan beoome
.genorally respeotod and admired by the publio at large. The past
rooord,. I am told rogularly, is that only a vory few people, in-
dividually, in caoh publio body enjoys the oonfidence and sinoere
respeot of his fellow citizens. The Chihojiohiho . has filled a
long existing veouum beoauso thore will bo a great variety of
opportunities in the lopal governments to devolop careors. The
opportunitios will vary from one looality to anothor, but the ohanges
will now inyito young and intolligont men and women to entor the

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.98)
looal servioes without being frozen out by Tokyō appointoom 
reoruitment cnd more ohennels for proper promotions will take pl
The personnol administration will undorgo better the seleotion,
ing, promotion, genoral morale and disoiplino for the men'and
who aotuelly patrol the stroots, operato water plants, extinguish
firas, and do tho thouscnd and one things to whioh looal governmont
must attond. Upon the quelity of their porformanoe depends almost
complotely tho quclity of looal government itself. If the rank and
filo of public sorvents aro oompotont, oontonted, industrious and
loyal, thoro is almost sure to be good government. If they are in-
compotont, disoontontod, lozy, or disloyal to thoir trust, good
gover.ment is oluarly impossible.
Thoro is a vast distinotion in tho oonoept of knowlodgo and of
intorest. I am fully awaro that for the adult the development of
intorost and good action from it aro diffioult. Too few officials
havo an inturost in tho gruat task of law onforoomont. To have the
rual interest in his work, the official has to foel tho signifioance
of whut ho or she is doing.
In looal govornmont tho locel official is under muoh more
scrutiny day by day than if ho wore in tho national governmont. In
tho local governmonts tho official lives not only his or her offioial
lifo in the community, but elso his or hor personal lifo. I am
cortain that many a local cfficial livos with many of his offioial
probloms in his homo most cf tho time. The national offioial, freed
from these noighbouring continuing inturosts, doos not have the olose
suporvision day in end day cut, yuar in and your cut. In many ways
tho national cfficial can cscape consure by taking official tours.
In faot, he ofton doos so. ven inspoctionul tours are fow and far
betweon for tho looal offioicl.
The buroauoraoy in Japan has long boon undor tho stinging,
although sinoore, oritioism that its membors aro too aloof from
Kobayashi-Kun and Watanabo-Kun. To whatovor oxtent this oritioiem
-9-

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.98)
is true, it is most rogrottablo. It is unforgivoablo. In moum
ropregentative govornment thoro is no pleoe for this aloofnass
or for arrogance or fushinsotsu. The buronuoret who continues to
flaunt his position will only too soon. find this faot out.
Moreover, tho kanryo in a damograoy do not make polioy for the
govornment. They have performod this very funotion in Japan far
too long for the good of the ocuntry. The elooted oandidate of
the poople, ohief exeoutives and logislators, have that funotion
to perform and thay must porform it in their high offioes of. publio
trust as refleoting the will of the eleotorato at a given time. The
chiefs of local publio bodies tnd the logislators in the dew Japan
must be ovorlastingly awako and on guard against any enoroaohmont
by the.bureaucraoy.
Worse and in greator betrayel of the publio trust in representa
tive govurnmont is the formation within the kanryo by its membere
of small oliquos or lcrge oliques whc soek to divert authority for
themsolvos and, in so doing, thwart and vitiate the will of the
peoplo found axprossed in tho laws. When one group either within
or without the govornment osteblishes or foroes its will above that
of tho governmont itsulf, untold evil and wanton power aro roleased.
No loyalty to the publio can exist. Such action is conapiraoy, it
can never be loyalty. Indeed, Taikan wa ohū ni nitarid The in-
vestigatory powers of either the speoial investigating committees
and of the standing committoes in every assembly throughout Japan
will, howover, when exeroised wisely and fearlessly, be a damo-
oratio guard to this greatest of ovils, Whon this self-reform is
not damooratio, it takés an uglier pettorn. Cannot the New Japan
have all that ovil loft forever bohind?
The bureuaorat must forever, because of the very nature of hie
position, bo noutral politically -- bo neutral, I say, to all maohi-
nations! His allegiance, positively expressed, is to enforoe the lew
through rules and regulations as logislation provides.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.97)
Tho bureauorat today can develop an interest in his work
and have a sincere appreoiation. of what he is doing. The publio
offioial in Japen must roalizo quiokly that his obligation is to
satisfy tho publio's wants, needs and desiros. He cannot indulgo
in his own fcnoios or his theories or give vent to his temper.
No purt of whet I have been stating, howevor, is to be takan even
by inferunoo that tho kanryo in a domooraoy is not to:bo a "good
colleague" as woll as an "onterprising subordinate". In Japan the
kenryo has long whettod his tnste to a ltrge appetito for governing
othors. Tho influenoo of Yemagcta in founding a system whioh has 
forood a bureçuoreoy to be primarily inturosted in proserving itself
for power should be buried in tho pest.
There will, as the Diet and the looal essemblies legislate,
bo those ohangos so lcng neuded. Did you heer Suzuki-Kun and
Watanabe-Xun talking last wook? I did. The former had just oome
from kanryo after trying very hard to get his business problem an-
swored by this long feoed offioial. "Did you notiod that the
kanryo's right oye was a glass oye?" atanabe-Kun asked "Yes,
I did finally," roplied Suzuki-Kun. "How did you realize tho glass
oyo to be his right eye?" asked his friend. "Well," seid Suzuki-Kun,
"Whan I was discussing the diffioult part of my affairs, I notioed
a faint and quivering gloam of sympathy in his right eyel His real
oyo was stono cold to me!"
The voters and citizens of Japan aro oxpeoting sinoere
service from c reformed kanryo. In faot, why keep the term kanryo
whioh has been distastful to so many? Perhaps Ynkunin would be
bettor.
The proverb "Hana wa sakura-gi hito was bushi" is old in Japan.
This proverb was given to me twelve years ago when I was in Japan
before this terrible oonfliot. I was never happy with finding the
word bushi in that proverb, even though the world has produoed
…-11

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.97)
some noble warriors. From now on, let us put the words "seijiten
na koboku" in the pleoe of "bushi". The world will look forward
eagerly and earnestly to seo this proverb a working reality in
Je.pan.
Delivored by:
Participeting Officer
Regional militery Gevernmont Toum.
Profeotural militory Goveramont Team.
-12-

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.97)
SUPREME COMWANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
Government Seotion
Local Government Division
Papor No. 5.
THE COLMITTEE SYSTM OF THE LOCAL PUBLIC BODIES
Tho Law Conoorning Looel Lutonomy in Seotion V, Chepter VI, Artioles
109-10-1l, provides for the assomblies of prefeotures, oities, towms and
villages to havo standing committees. The Law in irtiole l1o providop for
the appointmont of other committoes suoh es the looal governments may
dotermine in tho need of some partioular oocasion. The groat national
iaw, therefore, estcblishos tho cuthority for the existenoe of a one
or cll comm.ittoes. The assen.blios of tho profooture, oity, town and
villago have the power and authority given then by this Law also,oto
determino the jurisdiotion, funotion and oporation of these various
committees. Indeed, the logislctors of all the assomblies must pay careful
and continuing attontion to tho oommitteo system.
In reprosontttive covernment the committoe system plays a major part
in developing and maintaining democretio proceduros. The committee systom
historioally has proven not only useful but of real nuoessity to all
legislativo bodies whethur they are uniccmaral or bicamerel as organs of
reprosentrtive govornment.
To ay and tomorrow wo shall 'disouss togother (1) the reasons for the
rapid growth and widosproad use of the committee system, (2) the olasses
and crganization of committous, and (3) tho n turu of a committee's
function and oporction.
Some goneralizations orn bo givun rt the outset: (1) The first
ruason concorns the compotunco of & largo body of legislators to handlo
the complox affairs of tho publio trust with any real dogree of rationality
and promptnoss. For tho proper handling of affairs, tho members of the
assombly have to utilize thoir time in the best possible mannor. They at
committeos, tharefore, serve to produce an adequate solution to a given
problem in the shortest time. Were metters handled othorwise, all

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.92)
of the assembly would be foroed into the unhappy and unsound situation
giving opinions and judgnents on many matters at the same time. The
baneful result of this wculd bo thet only superfioial aotion oould be
taken. Each person here today is thoroughly familiar with this problom.
(2) The second rerson is that the committee system sorves the general
body of whioh it is a. part is u sooond mind or a seoond set of brains.
This, situation is true even though the membership of tho committee come
from the mumbership of tho paront body. Stated in another manner the
assembly has its problems and the logislation oonoerning them, handled in
two logioal parliamontary steps. Moreover, in general prooedure, the
publio has more opportunity to know about its affairs and how they are
being s,olvod.
Differont entirely from those two general roasons is a partioular and
speoial reason for tho committoe systom to be utilized to the fullest
extent by tho logislative organ of gover:mont. It will be remembered for
all time thet the funotion of pessing logislation rests solely with tho
legislature. This is why wo heve logislutures. Legisletures heve to be
strong, oaroful in thuir dutios and responsibilities and devoted to
drafting and passing zood legislation. Moroovor, legislatures must be
over vigilant to seo that their powors and jurisdiction aro nover exoroised
1
or enoronched upon by any ethor aguney or porson. Legislatures must
provent the intrusior of  ither un over z otlous ohief oxeoutive or a
mraspin bur aueruey. a p toor ow kindly vithor roy tot toward the
1:1.r
Er  lo dy, ur ieural or tiouorul, to bo strong
adolrrt oiyat h to prate continuously
ourorully wnd with  red diept teh Phe rull rotlization of this
do eratic proe le dep mads pntir ly  the eluss and urgenization of the
coramitto nd on its jorisdietion tnd odcinistretion.
Lot us ture our uttenti n now to the cl sses of oonmittoea and thoir
prganizction. For tho spuoifiud purpose of thu Law Conoerning Looal
Autonomy, thore uro twe olassos of conmittoos, tho standing committee and
the spoolal committoe. The standing committoe through by-laws of the

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.97)
assembly is established to control and direot a major and continuing
tion of government. Thus the standing committee is more than losa pe
anent. Contrasted with the standing committee is the speoial committe
which comes into existenoe for a pertioular situation or problem.
Whea
the situation is cleared or the problem solved to the satisfaotion of
the assembly, the committee is dissolved. In general these speoial
committees are of a very temporary nature when oompared to the standing
committees. Special committees may be established by a resolution of the
assombly. Woreover, they may doliborate during the session of the
assombly upon mattors referred to thom by a resolution.
How can these committees best bu organized to perform their funotion?
A. committoo has a chairman who is olootod by the conmitteemon fron among
their nomber. He has exaotly the samo powors as do the other members, no
more, no lcss. As chairman he (1) calls the moetings, (2) steers the
committeo through its businoss from the agonda, (3) oasts a deciding vote
by brouking a tie when nued be, (4) reports the conmittee's eotion on the
resolution or tho bill before tho plenary session and (5) adjourns the
moetings.
A focturo of tho committeo systom whioh is of importanoo is that of
thoir sizo. In determining this featuro a number of considerations have
to bo takon into account. Among them tho most important ere (1) the size
of the assembly itsolf, (2) the number of oommittoes for whioh provision
is nado, and (3) tho importance and volumo of work to bo handled by the
sevoral committees. flthough it is truc, genurally speaking, that a small
body is a more efficient instrunent than a large one, it is desirable
that the committee should be of such size as to afford an opportunity
to all of tho assemblymen to participato oquitably in oommittee work.
This faot moans that the smeller the numbor of committees the greater
should bo thoir size. This is ospooit.lly true of the oommittees of
major importanoe, both booause it is desirablo that as gront a propor-
tion cs practioable of the assemblymon should partioipate in their pro-
ooodings cnd because of tho volume of business to be handled by thom.
The membership of oommittees is usually in some equalized proportio

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.91)
to tho politioal party strongth. With rogard to standing gommitteed, the
composition of membership from one-half to two-thirds at least should be
tho samo from ono session of the assembly to another. Whon memberphip is
arrangod in this fashion that only ono-quartor or ono-third is new each
sossion, oontinuity of funotion, continuity of business and continuity of
tho committoe's system of work is maintainod. Indeod, the momberahip of
cormitteos should be arranged only in this manner.
A committoe must havo an cdequato stuff whioh oan porform the alloted
tasks. These nen or womon as qualifiod specialists and oapable seoretarial
cgsistarts composo the committee's pormanont porsonnol and because they aro,
they aid the oommittoo to prosorvo its charactor and strongth.
Tho organization of committoos must provido for its rules of procedure
to administor its businuss suoh as the following (1) maintenanoo of a reoord
of incoming and outgoing businoss, (2) provision for its agonda, (3). detor-
mination of a propor quorun for tho oponing of deliberations and transacting
of businoss, (4) mothod of seouring advico from toohnical oxperts and
profossional mon, (5) proper travol by committeomon to dotermino oonditions
first hand, (6) tho subpoena for witnessos, buoks and records, (7) oonduot
o hoarings both open and closod, (8) report of tho cormittoe's aotfons to
the assomblios, (9) ruport of tho minority opinion to tho assembly, and
(10) mothod of procoduro whon tho essemtly is not in session.
Oneu the ussunbly has ustablisned the tonline coraittee or the speoial
coamittoo--tlnt is, t rmird tho cluseard  the cormittee hus formed
its   ourtho ho   rdy te recoivo ite
rits us wol as somo
1lte Diut tho
netl  dy toue  afreire ur  st mpt x md cooause of ite great
vee d prosur f work   t s wontyono ooumittoes is
to te oxpoetod. ihe rtat on I the cmittuo is luturmined for all
practical purposus by its namo. A similur pariiumuntury proceduro qan be
followed in tho profoeturei, city, town und viliage assombly. The numbor
of the conmittoos and their funetions are detorminod by the will of the

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
assemblies, not by the chief executivo, not by the bureanerata.
harmony must exist anong these three agenaies of government, one wouls
to find a standing comnittce to correspond to each dopartmont as a:min
Because of the nature of the work in some departmonts, the assembly  
its own discretion, creato more than one corresponding committoe. Quiakiy
sumnarized, one might find in cach assembly, comnittees on Finance, on
Health, on Education, and Administrative Affairs, on Agriculture. on Economi
Affairs, on Public Welfarc, on Labor, on Fisheries and on Public Worke.
Others could be listod. Very inportant from this monent forward becauso o
the responsibilities and power of overy assenbly in Japan, is the solemn
responsibility of cach assembly to cstablish an adequato body to prepare
and to draft properly all legislation. The assembly can do this cither by
having a Standing Conmittee on Legi lation or by creating a body within the
sccretariat of the Chairnan of the Asscmbly.
The essenbly in its by-laws must establish cach committee's function
with clear jurisdiction.
How is the work of the standing connittecs (or the spocial ones)
accomplished? How do they op rate? How do they administer the business
on their agenda? How do the members as representatiwos of the people,
prepare themsulves to carry out the trust of the people? A number of
extremely impertant sugeustions can be listud h re today. (1) None of you
befor  can mdurustiate to importonce of seleoting qualified members
ormitt  in turn sclt eting the best of thoir
thie orat pr oim of apeoirtine the
l.f coittowe bership, one
r net co-equal with
f democratic practices by any
nd solue net and the possession
disehmre  s to s a h  community, indecd, if you please to
produee a hupy lif. Each our of yea before me knows the inpertance of
this entire ur blum: age is net iuportant of and by itself, brains and
conmon sense are needud. Please choose people with them!

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.98)
The nombers of a committee must, to accomplish ite
thoroughly informed on the affairs before them. Through the Lew C
Local Autonony the nenbers have unlimited opportunities to obtain the
and kmowlodge they need. There are three specific method which furnish
the oppertunities never possessed before.
a. The Assembly Library, which every assembly in Japan must
establish, will be a firm and developing foundation fron which all membere
can inform thenselves continuously. This library is the legal property of
this assembly and not that of any other branch of government in the local
public bodics. The assemblies should cooperate with these other branche
of course. Moreover, the prefectural budget must be adequate to operate
and maintain it. As a depository of all national laws, papers and
documents coming from the Diet, the members, through the libraries, will
have information readily available. Each committee should make every
effort to increase the number of papers, parphlets, books, documents,
letters and any testimony related to its particular function. The
Committee en Finance should secure all information available on bonds.
taxation and budgets, that on Health all on its related matters and the
other committees the same. There is nuch to do. The physical problem
alone of .securing and maintaining a library are enormous. An inter
prefectural or inter-city, town and village library loan systen is nost
desirable and effeuted easily. Intelligent conmitteemen will seek
information frou all sources.
b. Expert or technical information can be secured from
professional persons or technicians, deponding upon the problem--health.
nining, agriculture, labor or industry. Moreover, the Committee nust be
ever on guard to seo that it gets its money's worth from these people.
The Conmittee will have to determine carefully well in advance how to
pay for such services from neager budgete! Nevertheless, the duty of the
committee is to get tho information necessary for it to act. You cannot
hesitate in this regard.
o. First hand knowledge of the facts often requires the
committeeman to travel directly to the locality for which corrective

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.97)
action is to bo taken. The committepman takee the bus. the
ship and goes to the area to discover the conditions fer himmel
committee. If these trips are not well plannod, are not resul
and are not thoroughly justifiable in written roports for the peeple
sec, they are nothing more than disgraceful wasteful expenditures of 
taxpayer's money. Tho committeeman who allows himself to be a party
directly or indiroctly to such chicanery should be recalled by the votere
at once or defeated soundly at the polls at the next eleotion. Direot
travel may be the key to thc situation, hence the committeeman cannot
hesitate just becausc of criticism. He has a job to do and he must aot.
3. The open hoaring or the closed hearing is a prooodure and
practice of vital importance to the life and existence of the committee
system. Discussion ti sone oxtent has been given already. No more
democratic method of conducting reprosentative government has beon deviged.
The open hearing gives the Conmittee its goldon opportunity to hear and to
make use of all the pecplc, institutions or agencies which one way or
another are concerned with the problem. If necossary, the people should
"cone from fur and wide" to prosent all issues. Article 109 of the Law
Concerning Local Autonony provides for holding public hearings. These
can be held on the initiative of the connittee itself. They may be
called in pursunnce of its desire to secure information upon which to
base its actions. Th y are desirable to hold on the request of outside
parties whe desire to tuivecate or oppose the measure, or to secure its
modifiention. Th rs y t e nducted by the entire conmittee or
by a sut-committm up: int d y the committse for that purpose. Although
it rests entirely wish the committe t determine whether or not it will
held a hearine upen a particular bill or resolution, such a nearing need
rarely be rufueud when a purson or p rsons requeet it and can ehow any
reason ule er und fer  int heard. The facts and opinions brought out
at thesd hearings should be madoaviiable not only to all menbers of the
conmittee, whether they were present at the hearings or not, but to all
other moubers of the ussenbly apd, to tho extent possible to goneral
public. This syten affords all persons affocted by or interosted in the

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.98)
proposed logislation the opportunity to be heard. At the
attampt should be made by the committee to consider the bill under
discussion with a view to reaching conclusions regarding its appremal.
in the discussion and at times freely oxpress their opinion regarding iss
merits. Such considerations gonerally can be left to the formal meeting
of the committee from which the public is excluded. These moeting hould
be callcd by the Chairman or upon written request by a majority of the
committee. After the committec has heard, studied, and debated the
testimony of witnesses and experts as the case nay be on the bill, the
nembers must then prepare an exhaustive report setting forth their
decision and their reasons therefor. The report should be available to
all. These open and closed hearings, because of the overlapping nature
of the public questions, will be held by more than one committee  mhare
called joint hearings. But the rospcnsibilities cannot be divided; each
committee has to assume its own rosponsibilities.
4. The powor or privilege of the subpoena is inhcrent in
representative governnent. On far too many occasions in grave public
natters, cortain people aro noedod to testify and particular documents,
books, or records have to bc produced for they alono possess the secret
parts to what would otherwise be a bad puzzle. The subpoona is gencrally
used when individuals either refuso to cone thenselves or to send the
adequato writton instruments. Penalties should and must be meted out when
such antagonism is encountercd. Severe penalties must be imposed, for
oither oral or written misleading or falso information. In this regard
no oxcuses can be tolcrated for such wrong doing is criminal in nature.
It is an insult to the peoples' representatives. It certainly is a
flaunting of the public justice. The conmittee has this great power today
which it never had before. It should exercise it carefully but fearlessly.
Again, all tostimony should be tabulated, documented and made available
properly "to all concerned".
5. The final committee's endeavor, whethor it is the drafted bill or
a great report, must be presented to 'the areoutive-sesate

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.89)
More then likely there will be divided opinion in the committee,
especially on grave issues. Thare may be majority and minority
opinions in other words. Both are the property of the assembly
as a whole. The minority roup must present its case; it must
spenk up. en bers who fall in this responsibility nake a bad
compromiso with the voters who eleoted them.
6. It is important to beur in mind that e friendly press is
a rett usset in eldeevoring to inform the publio of committee efforts
which ure natur: lly to thoir honufit. Invite the press to conferenoes.
sond the pres: proparod sti toments. enever the committee deems it
noceastury to conduct busi luss bohind closod doors it is advisable
to tolk to tho press "off the reoord" in ordor tiat it will under-
stand the motivus of ths comaittoe and thus aid it in its work.
Agtin, ramombor that , friundly pross is t. valuable asset in acoom-
plishing works of public iutorest. Buosuse of the uxtrrordinarily
rusponsible position of ll the pross to the publio, thy committeemen
must bo frank und truti.ful with newspapermen: Kuchi wa kazawai no kado.
In sunmery, two finl sus yostions may be taken so hoart as to
the n ire comeittos systom a its funetionine the first of these
r d tos to t nerm 1 or routiae tusi ss on o oulunder of the
c: 1o pr or . onda not
to kopt
F.0d
:lie
.. comp.ittou
riousffeirs
--

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.94)
the committee will (1) engage in a comprehensive study at one
(2) entertain formal hearinge) (3) take daréful testimomy 
writing, (4) make a oomplote report to the plenary sessions of
the assombly, and (5) give wido publioity to the publio.
The sooond of those final suggostions rolates to the.prooedure
in which tho obmmittou will obtain its businosss First, upposo
that Kobcyaahi-Kun desires to havo a mattor introduoed into. the
assombly? Ho can roquost oither tho ropresentative from his distriot
or another reprosentative to introduco it for him. In many states
of tho Unitod States a reprusontative will porform this publio duty
automatioally. Gonerally tho member hes printed on the bill after
his own name, tho words "Introduoud by roquost." Suoh a statament
informs all of tho bill's origin, as woll as that the legislator is
doing his duty. This bill, like all other bills, goes at onoe to
tho cssombly through tho ohairman, tho assistant ohairman or the
prosiding officer of tho assembly, who, after recording and giving
the substanoo to tho assembly, thon sonds it to tho propor committee
for cotion. Socond, suppose thot Kobayashf-Kun hus a portinent matter
to the affairs under considuretion by cithur the spuoial investigating
committeo or the standing comnittoes. Because his matter is direotly
gormv.ino, Kobryashi-Kun cnn vivu it to eithar of those committees.
Tho ruspuetivo comnittue ohairran will teke the mettor porsonally or
oull tho committer togother whioh, ts a body, will take it. If the
freirs nd : tt rs are not porre ine, the cone itteu should not
nocept thot. he otwy irmmm or comnittooan should refor these non-
gormeiue rfeira ro to ponerel sasembly for notlon like c1l other
new n.ttors.
In t rms t tot) of thoso finel supcestions, thct is in torms of
the affuirs tnd businuss of a cormitteu, it must bo said that tho committee
has within its own diseretion the right to say whother theso effairs
aro important unough and of sufficiont public intorest to como before
plonery sussion of thu assombly. In tho United States it is ofton said,

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.98)
"The bill was killed in committee." This means that the oo
for its own rersons, did not roport the mattor back to the msmembly
for aotion. It may heppen that the general assembly might objoot
to the committee's decision in not reporting the affairs of the
oommittee. In suoh c situetion, of course, the assembly may request
that the cffairs be brought bofore it. Probebly, in only very serious
situctions, would the general assembly es a body take issue with one
of its comnittees.
Thue:fer wo bavo boon'talking about governmental procodures and
practices. These are grave matters indeed. All of you oen observe
that standing committees aro vital organs of a demooratioally funo-
tioning as sumbly.
In olosing, let us turn now to the most serious of affairs. In
a demooraoy, once a candideto has boon eleoted to offioe, he is in
tho position of the publio's confidenou. This vory aot means that
ho has assumed a vary definite responsibility. No eleoted ropresen-
tative of the people can dodgo or possibly ciroumvent this solemn faot.
The Law as has been stetod puts more power and responsibility in
the lawmaking assemblies. The committoomon, therefore, have more
publio and governmontal work to do than over bofore. There is the
opportunity today for evory assomblyman to produco as ho never was
allowed proviously. Eaoh assomblyman is today end henoeforward a
moro importent element of government than he or she has been.
In the foundation of the New Japan what committeeman in his new
position ocn rosist being a oreator for the publio good?
Dalivered by:
Roy A Harris, Major, USAF
Deputy Chiof
Looal Government Division
-11-

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.95)
DIYN OF
THE FOREIGN SERVICHORIHEAST ASIAN AFFARS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA MAY 17 1948
D:PARIMENT OF STATE
United states politieal Adviser
No. 261
for Japan
D1R
CONFIDEITIAL
Tokyo, May 4, 1948
(For Use of Department only)
SUBJmCT: Conferenee om Loeal Autonomy Law (Chihojichiho) held in
IBARAKI Prefeoture.
File
3
The Homorabl'e
Sws
The Seerstary of State,
Washington.
sir:
894.01/5-448
I have the hemer to refer to this Mission's despateh mo. 259 of
May 4, l94s concerning a series of conferenees on the Loeal Autememy
Law (Chihojiohino) being held by the Loeal Goveramems Divisiem ef
Government Section of this Headquarters in each prefeeture and te
report that at the imvitation of Mr. C. G. TILrom, Chief ef this
Division, an officer of this Missien attended the IBakakI Prefeetaral
Conference held at Mite on Marah 31 and April 1, 194s. This mas the
second in a series of cenferemces (the first baving beem held at
Semdai, Miyag1 Prefeoture on Maroh 17 and 18) which it 1s planned,
will cever all prefeetures by the end of June. This special pregrem
is designed by Mr. Tilton to acquaint loeal sovermmemt offieials with
the new law and to stimulate the latter to implememt the law as well
as to enable discussien on various points which mmy require olarifiea-
tion.
On the first day of the conference, five papers were read (sum-
SECRET
marised in this Mission's despatch referred to above) to the audienee
whioh consisted of the Covermor, the members of the Prefectural Asses-
bly, the Chiefs of Sections of the Prefectural Govornment, Judges and
Proseoutors, and preminemt people including the leading govermmeat
officials of Wito, eduoators, and school children. Speeches were also
given by the Governor and Chairman of the Assembly as well as brief
spesohes by Mr. Tilton and other members of the Local Govermment Divi-
sion before sach individual's paper was reed by an interpreter.
Need for Education as to Powers Granted
by Locul Automomy Law
On the second day of the Conference the group of lndividuals who
attended the first day, except the sohool children, was divided into
five sections. ach member of the team whose paper had been read the
day before spent an hour with emch groep in order to afford opportunity
for
CONFIDENTIAL
449

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.93)
Tago's No. 261
May 4, 1948.
CONFIREITIAL
for questieas. The type of questiens revealed greet interest in the
powers granted by the now law but considerable aneertainty as to bew to
go about using swah powers. It is ovidemt that is will be a long sime
befere the mow law is fully appreetated by the pelitieimme amd barees-
erats whe are operating under it. It was emeouragins, bewerer, to mete
that many of the individuals present advocated that the type of inferme-
tien being furaished to them should also reeck the peeple.
Mr. Tiltom and his group feel strongly that in order fer the Jape-
zese te appreciate the new law there mast be an edueatiemal eampaige
over a period of time. Mr. Tilton was umeertain as te hew this eould
be accomplisbed and fears that there will be imsuffieiemt persemmel is
Gevermmemt Seetien to earry out anything more tham the present ome time
series of somferenees. Mr. rilton stated that by the end of June there
would omly be chiefs of divisions in Govermmemt Section.
Commems: Mr. Juliam Garrett, Field Liaivon officer of the
Civil Informatien and sémeatien Seetien ef this
Headquarters, who accempasied the greup as a ob-
server, plams to aie in dissemimatien of inferma-
tiom about the pregrem tarough the press, radie,
and other medie. He stressed the need of empha-
sising the importamee of the cenferemees by fur-
nishing imformatien before they take plaee and
the nesessity of supplying data continmously
thereafter.
Women in Local Gevermmemt
There was oonsiderable omphasis placed by mr. Tilton on the part
that wmmen should play in local govermment (there were three womem rey-
resentatives present). He claimed that they were just as sapable as
men and could contribute needed qualities for the realizatien of loeal
govermmest reforms. It was pointed out by the Japasese that it will be
necessary to educate women because for so long in Jepan they have been
preoveated from participating in politics.
Local Automomy Law Inspired by Government Bectiom
Throughout the trip from off-the-reeerd commemts it was clear that
the Local Automomy Law was inspired by Govermment Seetiom mnd that the
amendments being planned were mainly being devised by Govermment Seotion
in order to improve defocts found in the new lw. Besause of the roductiom
in personnal in Government Sootion it is felt that these changes must be
achlsved by the ead of June. For emmmple, Mr. Michmel K. Nolan, Chier
of the Town amd Village Brench of the Leeal Government Divisiem, is in-
terested in am mmendment on insurance for local public buildings. He said
that by eaablimg the National Association or Towas mnd Villages to imsure
oulldiuge the cost would be about one-halr of the private rate and
therefere
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.92)
Takye's Nc. 261
May 4, 1948.
CONFTTIAL
sherefere ceuld be afforded by memy more lesal soveemmest bodies. er.
Nelea said that he plansed te call in a member ef the miet and tall him
the law mast be passed but that he, molas, had te be around in erder to
get it deme otherwise sther isterests might prevent the Diet frem pass-
ing the memdmemt.
Other peimts of majer ixterest during the trip are attacked in
1/ the ferm of a memorandum but may be briefly high-lighted as follows:
I. Interest in Operation of U. S. Leeel Geveraments.
There is an intemse desire on the part of leeal Jape-
mese Govermment officials to kmow the details of leeal
Govermment operatien in the United States.
II. Diffioulty of yinaneing Looel Govermment and pecon-
mondations af Losel Pinanse domndttee ef Biot.
The questiem of how to fimasce loeal sovermment opere-
tioms is an acute one. The Local Pimmmee Cmmittee of the
Diet has resemmemded to the Diet that admissies texes smd
part of prefits on govermment menopolies be turmed ever to
local goverasmsats. Imereases in local indepeméent tares
and the impositiem of mew local tares are alse resemmended.
Im addition, a loeal soverament beak has beem proposed.
III. Reaction to Committee System
The use of the committee system in lecal severmments,
authorized by the mew law, is not understeod by the Jape-
nese. The same diffieulty was experiemeed when Goverament
Seotion sought to have the Diet adopt the ∞mmittee system
on a large seale, but now it is hard to hold the committees
down.
IV. "Hande-off" Policy Toward Russians.
There is an impression among Military Govermment per-
sonnol that this Headquarters has adopted a "hands-off"
policy with respect to Russiens in Japan. Countorfeit yem
printed in Siberia 1e reported to be comiag into Hokkmido
to finance communist activities.
U.3. Inrormation Progrem to Orfset Commumist Propagenda.
There is evident a belief that the United States should
have an imformation program for the Jmpanese to reveal what
is boing done for them by tho United States. Sueh a progrem
would be extremely valueble in offeetting communist prope-
gande that the Amerioens are responsible for high taxes, a
low standard or living, etc.
VI"
Labor Comditions
Labor is better orr than ever although the labor iwws
CONFIDANTIAL

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokye's No. 261
May 4, 1948.
CONFIPIEITIAL
are far aheed ef prestise. Commamist imspired strikes
continse te interfere with produstion of coal and equip-
mest.
VII. Military Govermmeat view of Headquarters.
Headquarters is so slew in answerins questions from
the field that the temdemey is to avoid asking them.
Respestfully yours,
Lr.Secace.
W. J. sobale
molosurs:
Memorandum for the Record
dated May 4, 1948.
Originel and osalld to Department
801
WHLawrence: n
CONFLDRRTIAL

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.94)
CONFTREEETTAL
(Fer Use ef Departmeat only)
Held In IBARArT Prefeetured.
MOBSORANDUM FOR THE RBOORD
May 4, 1948
SUBJECT: IBARAKI Prefeetarel Conferenee on Leeal Autememy Law
(Chibojiehibo).
The following iaformatien has beem gleamed during a trip to Ibaraki
Prefeeture by an effieer of this Missien, mho en imvitatiem accempamied
members of the Losal Govermmemt Division of Govermmemt seetiem of this
Headquarters. The trip is deseribed in the despaseh with which this memo-
readm is enclosed (this Mission's despatch Ne. MI of May 4, 19ss). In
addition to cemments of these individuals, there were statememts of inter-
est made by the Loeal Military Govermment Team and Japemese leaders.
1. Interest im Operatiom of U.S. Loeal Govermmemt.
In the diseussiens on the second day of the conferemees,
the Japanese showed a very active desire te kmew hew the
United States Gevermment operates om a local level, but do
not have the facilities for finding out. This emphasis en
America is likely in part due to the fast thet all members
from Gemeral Headquarters were Americans. Altheugh passing
referense was made te the fact that the oeeupatien was an
Allied operation, there was practieally me referemee to my
system except that of the United States, and the Amerieas
way of doing things. It is understood that on some fature
trip to other prefeetures Mr. C. G. Tiltom, chief of the
Local Govermmemt Sectien will invite seme of the members of
foreigm missions to go along with him.
II. Diffioulty of Fimancing Local Governmemt and Recesmmemdations
of Fimaace Cemmittes.
A major question during the discussions was taxes. In
this conneotion a olipping from the Nippem Times of April
11
6, 1948 1e onclosed (5 copies) entitled Provincial Fimances
Strained". It points out that the amount of inoome which
can be devised independently by rurel overnment bodies is
only 34 peroent of the total revenue, indieating the weak-
ness of provincial financial authority. The local gowern-
ment officimle in Ibaraki are greetly concerned to fimd
means of supporting measures which they must see carried
out or whioh they vote to undertake. They asked for holp
in expleiming to people the now income tax myatem of declar-
ing incomes based on the Amerioam system. Mr. Micheel K.
Nolan, Chief of the Towm and Village Branch, told sach
group about a report on tax amendmonts prepared by the Locel
Finance Committee of the Diet. It was cleer that he had had
è great deal to do with the ideas in the report and that there
existed a dirferencs of opinion between the Gowernment Section
and the Finance Division of the sconomic and Scientific Soction
concerning
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.94)
ano. to Bosgech
..410.
COMPIDENTIAL
May 4, 1948
-2-
concerning the proposed changes in the tax strueture.
According to Mr. Nolan the report recommemded to
the Diet that admissien taxes now eellested by the cen-
tral govermment be turmed over to local sovermment to
provide eleven billiem yem a year. He peinted out that
befere the war the local govermment colleeted the tares
and that Gemeral Headquarters theught revemees should
be given baek. The report further proposed thet m0%
of the profit om feod, sake and tobesce sold by the
govermment should so to support of local sovermmeat which
would produee about twenty-four billion yen.
There is also a proposal that permission be given to
increase local independent taxes and to devise mew lecal
tares. There was considerable discussien in the sessiems
concerming the method of allocation of taxes. For exmple,
it was claimed that taxes are arbitrarily allecated amons
busimess mea and farmers. A proposed method is to do it
on e produetiom basis. This was considered muek fairer
wy the Japamese. The secomd part of the report dealt
with the creatiem of a loeal govermmeat bank whieh muld
serve all prefeotural severmments. It wms pointed out
several times that the local severameats were in the red
for last year which led Mr. Nelan to say that it would be
necessary for the national govermmemt to underwrite local
government for some time to come.
Comsiderable discussion centered around recent taxes
levied upon farmers. Farmers were givem suok shert metice
that it worked great hardship upom them. It was adveeated
that taxes should mot have to be paid by farmers watil after
their crop quotas had beem delivered. This prempted mr.
Nolan to suggest that the assembly should send a resolution
to tho Diet with a copy to Comeral Headquarters. He said
he would also talk to the Local Finaace Committee of the
Diet. Later, privately, Wr. Nolen said there was sonsid-
arable disoussion im General Headquarters whether or not
the farmers could stand additional taxes. According to
him, Natural Resouroes Section saye the farmers cannot pay
more than thoy are now while the Finance Seotion of Economic
and Scientific Section claim thet they can.
It was advocated by the Japanese that the new yem rion
be taxed. Mr. Nolan advocated passing a resolution in the
assembly to that effeot and sending it to the Diet boemuse
if anough prefectural assomblies did likewiee the Diet could
than feel the wimhes of the people but otherwise there is
almays a resletance in the Diet to passing now taxes of amy
kind.
III.
Roaction to Committee Systam.
The committee system of whioh Govermment Section thinks
vory
CONFIDENTLAL.

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.93)
Eme. to Despatch
No. 61, May 4, 1948.
CONFIBINTIAL
May4, 1948
-8
very higaly and adveeates stremseualy is evidemtly met
cemprebended by the Japemese. They appeer te be rather
baffled by the sestioms of the leeal aatemomy lew dealing
with committees beceuse the sestiens are se gemeral.
Major Roy A. Harris, Deputy Chief, Losal Gevermmems Bivi-
sien, who discussed the comaittee syetem with the japesese
stated that the sestions were purposely memerel besmase it
was desirable that the cemmittee system be flexible. the
Japanese appeared to expest thet if Gemeral Headquarters
wanted cemmittees to function in a large way they would
have been more speeifie. There was cemsiderable diseussion
about whether or mot committees could "kill" bills. simse
in Ibaraki Prefecture committees have mot started fumstien-
ing on any large seale there was little realisesien ef this
power. Majer Harris said he thought there was still a tem-
demey om the part of the assemblymem to pass a bill sest to
th by the Govermor.
Major Harris said that Mr. williams, Chief of the Legis-
lative Divisien of Govermmemt Seetien had had a very diffi-
sult time in getting seross the idem of eemmittess te the
natiomal Diet. He had, for exmple, to make the Chairmem
of the Diet committees equivalent to viee mimisters, whish
for one thing allewed them to have an offieial ear in erder
to impress the Diet members with the importasse of this posi-
tion. Major Harris seid mow that it was hard to hold the
Diet ommittees do.
IV. U. 8. Information Pregram to orfset commmmist Propeganda.
It wms of interest to mote that in private conversa-
tions with members of Govermmemt Seetien it was felt that
there should be some way for the Uaited States to bring home
to the Japanese what the United States is doing for them.
This opiniom was shared by Major Edward A. Limbeugh, the
Commanding Officer of the Ibaraki Military Gevermment Teem,
who 1s of the opinion that informatiom as te whas the Umited
States is doimg does not reach the public. This he is com
vinced is a mistake because the facte would be useful in
offsotting the claime of the Communists. The Comumiste
in mis arem, he said, miss no opportunity to blame the
Occupation for such things as imposition of taxes, the in-
adequate mounts or food available to the poople, and the
generally unstable conditions in Japan.
"Hands-orr" policy toward Russians.
During the talks about Communiam the Commanding Ofrioer or
the team mentioned thet he could not understand this Headqumrters
polioy toward the Russlans. He said that even whem he had canght
them breaking some of Cap reguletions he wue told by higher
authorities to relesse the individuals. Since this hes happened
seweral times he feels that he haz lost preetige wdth the Jape-
rese beceuse of this Headquarters' hende-off poliey as far as
the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.94)
Ens. to Despatch
No. 261, May 4, 1948.
COMFIDENTIAL
M1948
the Russiams are comcerned. (Mr. Tiltem said that on a
recemt field trip in Hekkaido he had learmed that large
quantities of counterfeit yem printed in Biberia were
coming into Japam to finanee Communist activities.)
VI. Laber Conditions
The Labor Officer of the Military Govermmemt Temm
stated that the laber laws were far abeed of practiee in
his aree but that he was convineed that laber mas better
ofr than ever with regard to such fasters as samiteties,
hours, and working conditions. He said Cemmamists were
quite astive im arousing laber to strike er to slow product-
ion. In one instanee in a strike in the seal mimes the
strikers had sone so far as te hold the mime mamager in
custody im his owm home. Amother Commamist-imspired strike
in a farming implement plant was imediately settled, when
a vote was takem of the whole staff. The partiealar point
at issue was the meed by the compeny te let nearly e third
of its werkers se, beceuse there was met suffieiemt busimess
te keep them. After the vote the werkers whe were leaving
were givem a bemas aad a premise that they weuld be rehired
if busimess impreved. A mejer diffieulty the laber offieer
stated was the inability ef the Coverament to pay sufficient
salaries to get ood men to deal with laber problems.
VII. Military Goverament View ef Headquarters.
The Cemmandine Officer of the Ibaraki Military Gevera-
meat Team, who has been in military gevermmemt simee very
early in the Occupation, volunteered that it teok him three
to six months te get an answer on a questien mhieh he raised
with this Headquarters so that even if he eventually got an
answer the situation usually had changed. It was apparent
that his attitude was suoh that very seldom did he raise
questions any longer.
W. H. Lawrence, Jr.
Enclosure:
Ci1pping from Nippon Timea
Apr11 6, 1948 (5 c0p108)
entitied "Prowincial Finances
Streined".
WHLewrene e, Jr.:
CONF IDENT LAL

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.98)
MI.ION TINES:
apr 6, 1948
An income totaling 12,200,000,-
ECONOMIC REVIEW
000 is expected to be derived from
local bond issues but as of the
Provincial Finasees Straimed
end of January, only 6,500,000.-
000 worth of bonds had been sold.
Finances of provincial govern-
ment bodies are as strained as
While the'source of revenue is
those of the central Government.
so tight, a total of 67,400,000,000
As of the end of Seplember. lust
or 70 per cent of the 87,485,000,-
year the total riscal budget of the
000 revenue is earmarked for per-
10.554 locel government bodies
sonnel expenses and expenditures
were estimated at ¥87,485,000,000
for this purpose are likely to in-
or about one third of the Govern-
crease further due to growing
iment finances.
wage demands.
About one half of the revenue
Principal items amtong the ex-
or 42.846,000,000 is derived from
penditures include 25,100,000,000
taxation while Treasury subsidies
tor educational expemses, 15,400,-
amount to Y27.321,000,000 out of
000,000 for construction works
the incomes accruing from sources
and 10,500,000,000 for boosting
other than tax totaling 44.639,-
business and industrial enter-
000.000.
prises. 'Expenses to build facili-
ties for the new 6-3 school sys-
The amount of income which
tem, which constitute a large
can be derived independently by
rural government bodies is only
portion of the educational expen-
34 per cent of the total revenue,
ditures need further increases, if
indicating the weakness of pro-
possible, while the damage reha-
vincial financial authority. How-
bilitation disbursements which oc-
ever. an attempt to make local
cupy the bulk of the construc-
finances independent of the Trea-
tion and business-industry. boost-
sury is likely to cause terrible
ing budgets are of the similar
ditficulty in obtaining the neces-
character.
sat y revenue
A total of 3,100,000,000 includ
Among the types of revenues
ing a Y1,400,000,000-Treasury sub-
peculiar to rural finances are the
sidy and 1,700,000,00 to be borne
business taxes, business supertax
by local finances has been ear-
and residents' tax. Due to the
marked for construction of school
increase in the income tax rate,
buildings for the implementation
however. it is estimated that
of the 6-3 educational system but
business tax payments have de-
the budget is still short of the re
creased by 30 to 40 per cent while
quirements. As a result, dona-
it is considered impossible to raise
tion campaigns have been launch-
the resident tax rate since it has
ed by various town and village
already been raised twice from the
governments, creating an sue in
average ¥100 to ¥400 per head.
rural administration.
No Hope of Increase
The paucity of damagé rehabil-
On the other hand, no increase
itation expenses can be seen in
in the income from the Treasury
the fact that the necessary budget
can be hoped for inasmuch as the
for rehabilitation of damages
son tax and admission tax from floods is estimated at ¥40,000,000.
which are derived the Treasury 000 whereas the Treasury budgets
allocations to rural government for this purpose include anly ￥3.
bodies have been raised to the 400,000,000 as damage rehab,litn
maximum. Nor is it possible to tion disbursement and 14,700,-
expect an increase in Treasury 000,b00 as public works expenses.
subsidies. On the contrary, there They call for profound self-reflec-
is now a possibility that the sub- tion on the part of the Japanese
sidies may be cut down. The re- people lest they should burden the
lief budget for the Kanto-Tohoku Alied authorities any more on
flood damages for example, may problems all too self-evident.
possibly be reduced.

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.85)
NOA n XMANA Pre.
(Fer Uae of Departmens only)
M 4, 1948
BUBJEOT:
IBARAKI Prefoetural Cenferenee en Lesal Autememy Law
(Chibejiehine).
The following latermetien has been gleaned during a twip to fberaki
membere os the Leeal Goveramene Divissen orf Govenemene sesesen of taia
Headquarters. The trip is deseribed in the despetch with which this meme-
rendum is emelosed (this Missten's despateh mo. ms at may 4, 19ss). Da
addities to cemments ef these individsals, there were stetememés es inter-
ost made by the Lecal Military Govermmeme roem and rapemese lenders.
1. Interest ia operetien of U.8. Leeel Govesmmens.
In the dleeusstens an the secend dey af the conk eenees,
the Japanese shewed a very aetive desire te kmew hew the
United states Goveranent operates an a loeal loval, bat do
Amerion la likaly in part dee to the faet thas all mambers
frem Gemerel Hesdquartere were Amerieans. Althongh passing
referenee mas made to the fast that the ceeupassen maan
Allied eperetien, there was prestieally me refesemse te my
system ezeept that of the Uaited stases, and the Ameriemn
way of doing things. It is undereteed ths en see fesere
trip to other prefestures Mr. 0. a. Pilten, chses of the
Leeal Gevermment seetien will iavite some of the membere of
fereign missiess te o aleng with him.
II. Diffioulty ef yimansing Local Gcreemment and meeemmendations
of Haaaee Cotmittee.
A major questien during the diseassiens ms tames. In
this coapectien a alippine frem the Mippen pimes ef April
1/
6, 194s is emelosed (5 cepies) entitled Previnsial Fimeases
Strained". It peints ous that the amount of imeome whish
can be dovised independemtly by rurel sovermment bedies is
only Se pareent of the total revemue, indieatins the weak-
ness of provimcial fimansial autherity. The leeal govern-
mont offieials in Iberaki are gremtly comeermed to find
means or supporting measures wkish they must see carried
out or whieh they vete te undortake. Thay asked fer help
im axplaiming to peeple the new inoeme tax syotem of deelar-
ing incomes basod on the Ameriesm system. Mr. Miehael .
Nelam, Chief of the Towm and Village Bramsh, teld each
group akout a report en tax amamémemts prepared by the Local
Fimanse Committee of the Diet. It was slear that he had had
a grent deel to do with the ideas in the report and that thare
existed a differenee of opinien beswsem the Government Soction
and the Finanee Division of the Reonomis and Seientifie Section
concerning
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.89)
Dee. to Deepetch
..4,1940.
CSTEITIAL
my4, 190
-0
coneeraias the prepesed changes La the tax strusture.
Ascerding to Mr. molan the repert recemmended to
the Diet thet admissien taxes mow cellested by the een-
trel sovermmens be turned ever to leeal sovermene to
previde elevem billien yem a year. me peinted eus that
befere the war the leeel povermmems cellested the tames
and that Gemeral Heedquarters thoughs revemmes should
be givem beek. The report further preposed thes mes
of the prefit on food, sake and tebesse seld by the
severnment sheald so to suppert of lecal soverment which
wuld predwse abeut twenty-four billien yem.
There is alse a preposal that permissien be givem to
insrease lecal independent taxes and to devise mew leeal
taxes. There was ceasiderable diseussien in the sessiens
cemcermins the methed of allecatien of tames. For emmmple,
it was elaimed that taxes are arbitrarily allecated mens
business men and farmers. A preposed mothed is te le it
en a predactien besis. This was eensidered mech fairer
by the Japanese. The sesend part of the repert dealt
with the creatien of & leceal govermmens bank mhiek muld
serve all prefeeturel severmments. It was peinted out
several times that the loeal sovermmemts were in the red
fer last year whieh led Mr. Nelam te say that it would be
necessary for the national sovermment to underwrite loeal
soverement for some time to come.
Ceasiderable discussien centered areund resent tames
levied upen farmers. Farmers were givem swek shert metise
that it werked great bardakip upen them. It was adveeated
that taxes should mot have to be paid by farmers wasil after
their erop quotas had beem delivered. this prempted mr.
Nolan to suggest that the assembly should send a reselutien
to the Diet with a copy to Gemeral Headquarters. He said
he would also talk te the Leeal Fimanee Committee of the
Diet. Later, privataly, Mr. Melan said there was cemsid-
srable discussion in Gemeral Headquarters whether or not
the farmers could stand additional taxes. Accerding to
him, Hatural Resourees Sectien says the farmers eanmot pay
more thmn they are now while the Finanee Section of Eoomemie
and Seientific Section claim that they san.
It was advocated by the Japanese that the new yem rish
be taxed. Mr. Nolan advocated passing a reselutiem im the
assembly to that offeet and sending it to the Diet becamme
if amougb prefestural sssemblies did likowise the Diet could
then feel the wishes of the people but otherwise there is
always a resistance in the Diet to pasming mew taxes of emy
x1nd.
IXI.
Remction to Committee System.
The committee syetem of whioh Gevermment Seetion thiaks
voxy
ONA

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.89)
Ens. to Respatch
..1948.
CHITNEXIAL
4194
山
very higkly and adreeates stremsously is evidemaly net
eamperehonded by the Japenese. thay eppear to be resber
barfled by the sestions of the Losal antenemy law dealing
with ommistess besease the sesssens are  pomerel.
Majer Rey A. Marris, Depaty Chief, Leeal Govermmens Mavi-
sien, whe discussed the comistee syetem with the rapamese
stated that the sestiens were purposely smevel besaase it
was destrable that the eemmittee system be flenible. the
Japaaese appeared to expest that if Gemeral meaégarters
wassed eommittees to funetion in a large wmay they mould
have been more speeifie. There was censiderable diseussien
about mether or met comittees could "kill" bills. sinse
in Ibaraki Prefesture eomittees have mot started fumstien-
ing en aay large seale there was little realisatien ef this
power. Majer Harris said he thoughs there was seill a tem-
demey en the part of the assemblymem to pass a bill sess to
them by the Govermer.
Majer Barris said that mr. williams, Chier of the Legis-
lative Divisien of Gevermment Sestien had had a very dirri-
cult time in getting naross the iden ef eemmittees te the
matiemel Diet. Ne ad, for emple, to make the Chairmem
of the Diet cemmittees equivalamt te viee ministers, mhich
fer one thing allewed them te have an effieial ear in erder
to impress the Diet members with the impertamee of this pesi-
tion. Majer Harris said now that it was hard te held the
Diet committees dowm.
IV. U. B. Informatien Pregram to orfset gemmmist Propaganda.
It ws of interest to mote that in private eeaversa-
tions with members ef Govermment Soetien it was felt that
there sheald be some wey fer the Uaited states te bring home
to the Japamese what the Uaited states is doins fer them.
This epimien was shared by Majer méward A. Limbangh, the
Commanding Offieer of the Ibaraki Military Gevermment teem,
who is of the epimion that infomatiom as te what the umited
States is doing does not reack the publie. This he is oon-
vinced is a mistake because the fasts would be useful in
offsetting the almims of the Communists. The Communists
in his arem, he seid, miss no epportunity to blame the
Occupation for such thimgs as impesitiem of taxes, the in-
adoquate mounts of food available to the people, and the
generelly unstable conditions in Japan.
"Hands-off" Policy toward Ruesiens.
During the talks about Communiam the Commandimg ofrioer of
the team mentioned that he could not understand this Headquartors
poliey toward the Russians. He said that oven when he hed canght
them breaking some of Saap rogulations he was told by highar
autherities to release the individnals. Since this has happemed
several times he feels that he has lost prestige with the Jape-
nese because of this Headqumrters' hands-cff poliey as fer as
the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.83)
19
the meesdens are eoeerned. (r. tilten metd thet e a
posene fiald trip ha moktnide he had Loaannd thne lange
quastities of coaaserredt yeun peinsed ia sabevsa wase
cmin Late Japem to finense Commmmist astivitses.)
VI. Laber Conatlene
The Laber efrieer of the Military Govesmmene Tomm
stated that the laber Lawe were far aheed af poneedee ia
houre, and working cenditiens. No said Gomméets mare
Lon. In one iastanee in a strike in the eeal mmes the
La a farmine iuplamens plant mas Lamedletely seseled, mhen
at losue was the mead by the eompeny to los menrsy a tire
of ite werkers so, beseuse there was met surrisiems besimess
to keep them. Arter the vete the workere whe were Leaving
were given a benas aad a premise that they would be pekáred
if busimess impreved. A major diffieulty the laber esraeer
stated was the inability of the Gevermmons to pay eafrsekoms
salaries to get good men to deal wità laber probloms.
VII. Military Goverment View of Reedenarters.
The Cemmamding offieer of the Ibaraki Military Gevers-
ment Team, whe has beem in military soveramemt simee very
early in the Oesupatien, velunteered that is teek him theree
to six menths te get an answer on a questien mhieh he reíeed
with this Heedquartere se that even if he evemtwally set n
answer the situation usually had changed. It wms apperest
that his attitude was sueh that very seldem did he raise
questions any longer.
W. H. Lawrence, Jr.
melosure:
Clipping from Hippom Times
Apr11 6, 1948 (5 cop100)
entitled "Provincial Pinanees
Strained".
WHlerene e, JI.: om
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.94)
ACTION
is assigned to
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVIS
FOR JAPAN
DC
No. 327
BERARLMEOPSTAPE
UNCLASSIFIED
Subject: Diroctory of Contral Liaison and Coordination Office
The Acting Political Adviser has the honor to enclose for the
information of the Department five copies of the Directory of the
Contral Liaison and Coordination Office of the Japanese Government.
The directory sets forth in detail the organization of the Office.
Enclosure:
Five copies of Directory
of Central Liaison and
Coordination Office.
CS/V
Jrllnml ni zH t DepArtnt.
0L 29 1948
FILED
800
WHLawrenee, Jr. :mhp
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.97)
DIRECTOR
CENTRAL LIAISON AND COORDINAT
(CL. C.O.)
DIRECTOR-GENERAL
Mr. Eki Sone
Secretary to Director-General
Mr. K. Mak
DEPUTY DIRECTOR-GENÉRAL
Mr. Hisanari
Mr. G. Takiaw
Secretary to Deputy Director-General
DIRECTOR-GENERAL'S SECRETRIAT
SECRÉTARIAT SECTION
1. Personnel
Chief
Mr. K. Tatuke
2. Documents
Assistants
Mr. N. Okuda
3. Accounts
Mr. S. Ooizumi
4. Miscellaneous Matters
Mr. T. Ootaki
Mr. T. Kijima
FIRST DIVISION
Director
Mr. S. Kimura
GENERAL AFFAIRS SECTION(IG)
F. Planning & Expediting
Chief
Mr. Y. Katsuno
2. Public Relations
Assistants
Mr. K. Nishimura
8. Translation
Mr. H. Mazaki
4.
Inter-sectional Coordina-
Mr. T. Iwama
tion
Mr. T. Mori
5.
Matters not handled by
other Sections of CLCO
Mr. S. Kōnd
Mr. K. Yasuda
LIAISON SECTION(IL)
1. Correspondence to Allied
Chief
Mr. K. Yoshida
Mlitary Authorities
Assistants
Mr. T. Yoshioka
2. Correspondence from Al-
lied Military Authorities
Mr. K. Usui
8.
Telephone Liaison with
GHQ
Mr. K. Tsurumi
Mr. H. Yoksta
Mr. O. Kurino
LOCAL AFFAIRS SECTION(TLA)
1. Control & Coordination of
Chief
Mr. A, Nishiyama
Matters concerning LLCO
2. Liaison with LLCO
Assistants
Mr. T. Kawashima
3. Liaison with Allted Mili-
Mr. N. Komuro
tary Authorities concern-
Mr. K. Matsumoto
ing LLCO
SECOND DIVISION
Director
Mr. S. Ishiguro
COORDINATION SECTION (2C)
Mr. T. Nake
2. Changes in Government
Assistants
Mr. T. Yasukav
8. Liaison-with GS in the
Mr. H. Kobay
final Clearance of Bills
& Cabinet Ordera
Mr. H. Tadala
Mattera not handled by
Mr. S. Niahida
Div.
Mr.Y.M

=== Page 268 === (confidence 0.98)
LITICAL AND ECONOMIC
CTION (2P)
.Ex. 412
Pelitical & Economic
Chief
Mr. T. Mitsudō
Matters, particularly
Mr. T. Katō
.Ex. 412
SCAPINs & Memoran-
Assistants
dams related thereto
Mr. H. Hotomi
.Ex. 302
Matters, concerning Con-
.Ex. 302
stitution
Mr. I. Katagami
Relations between Cabi-
net & Diet
Mr. M. Nozaki
.Ex. 302
Coordination among eco-
nomic Ministries &
Boards
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
SECTION (2PA)
.Ex. 231
Chief
Mr. M. Fujisaki
1.
National Administration
.Ex. 353
in general
Assistants
Mr. N. Fujiyama
.Ex. 353
Administrative Structures
Mr. M. Itō
.Ex. 353
Local Government
Mr. T. Yoshimatsu
Relations between Cabi-
Mr. G. Akatani
.Ex. 353
net & Court
.Ex. 353
Mr. K. Masuzawa
HIRD DIVISION
.Ex. 320
Director
Mr. S. Hirose
WAR CRIMES SECTION (3WC)
.Ex. 299
1.
Matters in general con-
Chief
Mr. M. Yoshimura
.Ex. 321
2.
cerning War Crimes
General secretarial Mat-
Assistants
Mr. H. Nemoto
Mr. H. Natsume
.Ex. 321
ters for IMTFE
.86-0020
8.
Delivery of War Crimes
Mr. Y. Furuya
Suspects to
Sugamo
Prison
(assigned to Sugamo Branch of CLCO)
Services for
Sugamo
.Ex. 321
Miss S. Tajima
Prison
5.
Matters not handled by
other Sections of 3rd
Div.
PROSECUTION SECTION (3P)
.Ex. 320
Chief
Mr. S. Hirose
1. Prosecution matters
(temporary)
Ex 361
Mr. S. Yamashita
Assistants
INVESTIGATION SECTION
Ex. 288
1.
Apprehension of war
Chief
Mr. T. Ishu
Ex. 361
Crimes Suspects
Astants
Mr. T. Sekimoto
2.
Summoning of Witnesses
Mr. S. Hamaguchi
Ex. 361
3.
Investigation on above
Ex 361
Matters as requested by
Mr. S. Furuyama
Allied Military Authori
Ex. 296
ties
Mir Y Ebrawa
NOTES:
1. " Ex." numbers can be reached from outside dial by calling any of the fellowine twenty
five (25) numbers and asking the operator for th "Ey number wanted.
57-4175
57-4176
67-4179
57-4178
57-4177
57-4801
67-4835
57-4814
57-4822
57-4819
57-5110
57-5114
57-5111
57-5112
57-5113
57 5115
57-5116
5117
57-5118
37-5119
57-5121
57-5122
57-5123
57 5124
575125
2. There are also the following four (4) direct line numbers
576618
a. First Division
57-6010
b. Second Division
or
57-7845
57-1306
c.
Third Division
(11 A), is abbreviation of Locol
8. LLCO, appearing under LOCAL AFFAIRS SECTION
Liaison and Coordination Offices.

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.88)
DIVISION OF
FE
MORTHEAST A AFFARS
AIRGRAM
3334
FROM: MOSDOW
DA TS) DEPARIMENS.
DESPA CRED:
June 12, 1348
UNCLASSIFID
RECST D:
June 17, 1948 3:35 pm
Seoretary of State,
3
Hashington.
A
ACTION EUR
A-572, June 10, 1948.
INPO
or stair
DC/R
Communist indignation with al oged reaotionary
SA/M
pogrium of Asnide government and  s  . sponsorehip
ROR/x
Bhai Jiy exprcased In following sel, ot ors from Sov presa:
FE
OCD
Bo ar. May 30:
894.01/6
CIA
'Japunene reuationaries, drour ing cf the restorstion
of t lo pre war regine, are inorean: ng ths persoouticn of
duncoratio ellements in the oountry le Cad net, headed
by t le revengist Agaida. is workiru on various bill:
reetrloting uven tnoso inconsidoral le iberties wiich
ware iutroduced after tne dafeat o. Jaalese militarism.
I
"An ddea in: orted from aoro s the oooan hea ttruok
1048
tht apanese rulera on the atten o aundt's bill they
are drawing uy a bill panaing omuniats from public
pORtg"
Prayda. May 30:
"The anti doamunist oalpaign ( cnc Anglo-Amerioan
roact onari es has inspired those on li te mind in a rua-
Accordin, to tte papor "Asr hi',
For of other cowntries
toe  ancee roreign riaister kshis a cave the folloving
easv  reoently in th over nanbon ti tue queetien
waut ir tle Covernm ant ms derin o at ntfons cf x
The dove ro ot is at ploeent
pallte te ommiats
cooserl  utio r pondbe sie she Comuni:ts
tola ms ublio soste merely tr t  groande th
FILED
19

=== Page 270 === (confidence 0.90)
A-572, Mos0ow, June 10, 1948.
- 2 -
contrary, he enphasizes the heighss he'has attained in
martering the achievelents of 'astern demooraoy'. He
is only oppressed by one thing: e heve so far been
uneble to ottain copies of reoent British logislation
in t is res eot for study.' But h ourious Prime
Miniater nopas to obtain these 'specinens of demoorao'
in the near futuro.
"The present Japanese Premiar hardly requires a
coly of the British anti-Communis: lew. The respeot he
ays to the represontatives of ':stern demooracy' 1s
little more than a subterfugo. Pis old militariat has
ut s dis sal his on ∞ nsideraile experienoo of anti-
Con munist activities und of tre s upprocsion of the demo-
GrE t'o mOVE Snt.
"It 1s no seoret that, in thr yeurs 1933-1939.
al lda, as sasident and oditor  t 'Japan Times,
Ltrd tre ipe of populariser o tho Anti-Comintern Paot
and was lat  a membe of the ultsa-resotionary Pcliti-
oui  ssocia lon for Aid to the Tu one'. do was also one
of e reliable' deputies rocomiendod by the governnent
ef te wer criminal Tojo for the ro- esoist parlicment
of i42. hitor the cpitulation cf dwan, Aahide, with
the suppert of tle Amorioan ocou pr tioncl authorities,
rapidly eocired a posi tion for tmselr, held minitorial
ros ss end eventually beoame Prims inister. It wan his
1ierge hatrd of the Japanese woriere end the Commeniat
ar ty winj ot wado him aooeptable to Meolrthur's staif.
"Asbidu's close oontaot with the csoupationel
cuthorities in the suppression o' the strike movement,
1.i: attompt so split the trade w.ion movement and
fila.ly the open proclamation of :n anti-Communist can-
gaigh--all  s again snows the au tu of the demcura
isa icn' b ing carriud out unde th cireoton cf the
mt rioan oc upaticngl authoritier. ui te recontly.
Fac thur d sorioed Japan as the im regnable oitacel
of domocracy in the at'. The  ts, havever, indjoate
he t this ' itadel' i in faot tn: pocerve of mili tariam.
in ioh th regine existing in Jupar in the dark ays on
the bjo di: tatorsnip is being re ived."
SITA
(or y to Mokyo
Irsland:rv
UNCLASSIFLND

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.95)
(2
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
ACTION
OF THE
is assigned to
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
FOR JAPAN
Dc
No. 397
Toko
30, 1948.
HORTHEKTASTAN AFFAIRS
UNCLASSIFIED
U-1948
PARTMENT OF STATE
Subject: Termination of Headquarters office on Disqualification
From Public Service.
The Honorable
The Jecretary of State,
894.01/6-3048
washington, D.C.
Sir:
FE-eme
I have the honor to report that the Public Service Qualifica-
0-eye
tions Division of the Government Section of this Headquarters was
OcD-ede
abolished on June 21, 1948, bringing to an end its functions in
connection with the removal and exclusion of Japanese from partic-
DC/R
ular positions and employment.
The press release announcing the termination of this division
CI0
is enclosed (five copies). It will be noted that, in spite of the
abolition of the division in question, the personnel and records
of the Headquarters agencies which reviewed the work of Japanese
CS/A
purge comnittees have been transferred to another officewith
the Government ection.
Respectfully yours,
5
894.01
…. J. Sebald
6
Enclosure:
1948 L
Press release 1630, GH, F,
rublic Information Office,
June 22, 1948 (five copies).
101948
800
CCoville:cgf
Original and ozalid to the Dopartment.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.90)
GENERAL HEADOUARTERS
FAR EAST COILAND
Public Information Office
Press Felease:
1630
22 June 1948
REPATRIAT1ON FIGURPS REACH 5.910,861
Repatriation figures renched 5,910,861 with the re-
turn last "eek of 14,615 Japancse from Siberia, Manchurin,
the Kuriles and K' rafuto.
Of this arcunt, figures released by G-3's Repatriation
fection, indic't tht the Soviets released 12,lli Japanese
fror Cit ria, Kirafuto and the Kuriles.
CAP had provided shipping, during the first two weeks
of June for roi han 20, ooo Japanese expectcd to be re-
leased so fnr ' s ronth. but the Soviets vsed only 17,138
spaces. The b of these passengers arrivid during the
period June 11  ?.
The Weekly r patrintion report issued 'y SCAP puts the
nurher yet to 1.  patrinted at 696,622. c this total
632,531 rer: in to . relensed from areas in the Soviet
zoné of influence.
-0-
ALOLISH LISS OI FU GE  ACHINERY IN GOVI N INT SLCTION
Abolition of the Public Service Qualifications Divi-
sion of SCAF's Governr ent Section, effective llonday, in-
dicrtes completion of the review of the activities to
rerove nd cxclude undesirable personnel from public ser-
vice, including public information rrdia and economic
entc rprises affecting the public, SCAP sources reveeled.
This announcemunt rarked the end of a two and one-
half y :r pregran which had its start in a SCkP directive
in ce pliance vith obj etives of the Potsdam Declaration.
Prie. G n. Courtn y  hitney, Chicf of SCAP's Govern-
entt:r, point d out recent ly thrt the purge progrom,
whil. fully consist nt with the parpeses of the Japanese
Gov rnm nt  t p epl. in eh.rtering a demoeratic future,
is n of th direet r quirurente of the Petsdam Declara-
ti n., finaletion taken therounder is regarded
tof rromnt w tur for which the Allied Powers
py Cutur ome Goy rnments fully
wliat Ap toard,a
ht hrd apis er purp s, nd the
putlie mll i tfen brrin tlon Cor ittee were abolished
rit r.t s th s two panem geneies will
hatldthefi of the rime inister or
  e' ur 1 ov rrors pecording to specirientions e ntatned
in h eriinne vhirh dissolved th pe neies.
(101)
(over)

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.98)
Personnel and records of SCAP's agencies which reviewed
the work of Japonese purge comrittees have been trans-
ferred to the Statistics and Records branch of the Govern-
ment Section's Administretive division.
Turing the program which begnn on January 4, 1946
717,415 persons were screened by the committees and 8.781
were barred fror holding public office or were removed
from offices nlready held. Of these the central committee
screened 66,015 of whom 3,681 were removed and 1.019
were barred from rublic service. Local committees screened
651,400 rersons cf vhom 1,907 were removed and 2,174 persons
vere rarred from future activity.
Provisional designations on the basis of official re-
cords nd documentary evidence vere concluded on May 10
when Po4,304 non-office holders were eliminated from fu-
ture positions of public service. Petitions submitted by.
11,124 of these persons contained sufficient counter-
evidence to reverse the purge decisions and thus reduce
the tota1 number of such purgees to 193,180.
On May 20, the Japanese government report d that
1,070 of the 201,944 purgees listed at that time had filed
a'peals. The Prime Minister approved the subsequent
reinstaterent ef 129 persons, leaving 201,815 persons still
subject to the restrictions and prohibitions of the purge
directive.
-0-

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.93)
Form Da-90s
(7-2-40)
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFNE
INCOMING TELEGRAMSM
10
PLAIN
Action: FE
Info:
E
P
Rec'd August 31, 1948
0
9p.m.
EUR
Orfice of
OLA
FAR EASTERN AFFAITS
CIA
FRLOM.
MoBcow
SEP 1 1948
DCL
DURECTOR
OFD
TO:
Seeretary of State
FC
POS
No
1828, August 31
EURK
DCR
894.01/8-3148
A. 1 sovlet paport August 3i carry two-column Tokyo
T ss dospat b guct ing Ktslenko's statemenc at ACJ
m et uny Aupitst ce, condensing Stetold's reply into
g vn lirce a lding s miisr summery Kislenko's response
a:d  e s by Prtib ad Chirese representatives.
R:pR  ipe uespateh quotes paper AsAhI concerning
t lau al tegediy being considered by Japanese
d rmer o enove persons who interfere with economic
ailza, to ad clause tc rticle 97 of Constitution
S
EARTMENT OF STATE
oviciny. I loyai check fcr empioyees state insti-
tic wil ain el u dating whether they follow orders
a po!l icai party". and tc :stablish committee to
1
OFFICE
6 1948
o igut po itica. activities which could impede
cone rut on whren ans states would be modeled on
-lcar Aesiu1t Commitree.
PAv 13 1 ne gunpat n notes Japsnese Communist Party
plenusm approvu ita  itburo's proposals on appeal to
peop ea o or ld pa treaty, Yugoslav situation, and
d dense ef uar sy
P ApA 23- ne dearatar summariz e publi statement made
by Japanese Communiut Party atta xing As AlI sponsored
l glulatlon as act lestroying Ja anese Constitution.
D:partment pasa Tokyo 25
SEP 10 1948
SMITH
D: G3
Note
Relayed to Tokyo 5:05 p.m., 8/31/48 (MB).
H
PLAJN
H
PERMANENT RECORD COPY:
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R CENTRAL FILES WITH
NOTATION OF ACTION TAKEN.

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.96)
ACTION
is assigned to
DALE T. MUSSELMAN
ATTORNEY-AT LAW
September 9, 1948
ufr 9/20148
Office of Secrotary of State
PAA file
894.01/9
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
The writer will be engaged during this school year in
teaching government at the Detroit Institute of Technology.
1
Could someone in your office suggest a source or sources
6
from which the changes in Japanese government can be secured? We
48
will be interested in such changes as have occurred since the
American Occupation began and including the present relationship
of the Japanese Covernment to the occupation together with pro-
posed plans for changes.
Cordially yours,
Letroit Institute of Technology
CS/A
Dale T. Musselman
Instructor in Political Science
D.M/hb

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.95)
In reply refer to
PL 894.01/9-948
My dear Mr. Musselman:
In accordance with the request contained in your
letter of September 9, 1948, there are enclosed doou-
ments containing information about changes in the Japanese
Government since the surrender of Japan and that Govern-
ment's relations to the occupation forces. It is sugsested
that additional information may be obtained from the De-
partment of the Army and the Par Eastern Commission, 2516
Massachusetts Avenue N. W., Washington, D. C.
If the Department can be of further assistance in
supplying information, please let me know.
Sincerely yours,
For the Acting Secretary of State:
Leonard R. Cowles
Chief
Public Views and Inquiries Section
X
D1vision of Public Liaison
Enclosure:
Material on Japan.
MY
Dale T. Huemelman,
Del Mt. Vernon Boulevard,
Moyal Ouk, Micnin
8
2/27/48

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.90)
JMA
Form DS-302
(7-2 4)
DIVISION OF
ACTION COPY
COMMUNICATIONS AND RECORDS
DEPARTMENT OE SPATON OF
TELEGRAPH BRANCH
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
INGOMNNG TELEGRAM
Aontr1940 8d32
Action: FE
nfo:
F Sember 24, 1948
AM
2:26 a.m.
UR
LI
1A
.OS
A
CR
P'ROM
Moscow
Secretary o State
108, September 23
894.
RES3
one So iet paps September 2? carvied 4 ine Prague
ass despatch summ rizng Tokyo telepress story that
or ch mbern Jup ur iament decided form committee
"or inveatigation, and leftiars in order gather testimony
io form rasis for aw prohibiti g Communists frcm
6
ecupying government posts.
1
2
Drtment paBs Tokyo s 30
348
XOHLER
PPM MW
OTE
Passed to Tokyo Suptembe: 24, 1948.
2:30 a1.m. (TWM)
FILED
工
工
PENAN NT RECND
ORIRIRALFILFSWITH
NN

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.94)
NOV - 9 1948
nited States Political
心
for Japan
No. 686
19
0e/k
CONFIDENTIAL
3 xπ's
(For Department use only)
SUCIAL AFFAINS - ILS
INTERNATIONAL TRACE POLICY
Subject: Probloms of Local Government and Zand Refor
OFFICE
FEB 21 1949
ERA AL TRADE POLICY
BEPARTMENT OF STATE
The Honorable
FEB 21 1949
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
1/
I have the honor to forward herewith
memorandum dated
October 13, 1948 reporting a conversation petween Mr. U. 
JOHNSON, American Consul General in Yokohama, and Mr. UoHIYAMA
Iwataro, Governor of Kanagawa Prefecture.
Mr. Uchiyama expressed considerable criticism of what
he termed the "Tokyo bureaucracy" and, by implication, its
counterpart in General Headquarters. Mr. Uchiyama believes that
the basic program of local autonomy in Japanese political
administration is being vitiated by the increasing activities
of national government agencies, of which he says there are
approximately fifty operating in Kanagawa Prefocture entirely
independent of the prefectural administration. As Governor,
Mr. Uchiyama explained, the people and the Occupation hold him
responsible for administration, but his actual authority is
being constantly curtailed.
Mr. Uchiyama was particularly critical of the new police
system under which separate police forces must be operated.
xx
Financially, smaller villages are unable to support independent
police forces, and ir. Uchiyama charged that this system is ill-
advised, inefficient, and uneconomical. At present, Mr. Uchiyama
894.105
pointed out, the Yokohama Police Force is larger than the former
organization for the entire prefecture, but, because of divided
authority, is much less effective.
From other sources this Mission has detected considerable
criticism of the reformed police system with its emphasis on
decentralization. Most criticism of the new system stresses
the added expense of independent police forces for each locality
and the lack of efficiency in a decentrelized system. Some
NE
critios
MAR 9-1949
28
CONFIDENTIAL
GLED
C410
02
Dist

=== Page 279 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 686,
October 22, 1948.
CONFIDEITIAL
-2-
critics of the new system point out thet the prevailing trend
in most other countries is toward nation-wide police forces
enjoying centrulized control. Other critics of the reformed
Japanese police system have expressed considerable alarm over
its alleged inefficiency, believing that the present syetem is
wholly inadequate fron. the public sufety standpoint in the event
of lurge scale lubor or other civil disorders.
Respectrully yours,
.
. J. Sebald
Anclosure:
L.emorandum of Conversution,
Octoler 13, 1948.

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.84)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 686
dated October 22, 1948 from the United
States Political Adviser for Japan,
Tokyo, on the subjoct, "Problems of
CONF ID ENT LAL
Local Government and Land Reform."
(COPY)
D  N
Yokuhau, 0ctoter 13, 1948.
ee overn Land keform
Part.
1Y... 1war
levernor or Rantepwa Prefeeture
Alexi Johnson,
tri can Colsul Jeneral,
Yokoh
tter dinner at his re: idenee yestercay evening, I had a
lon conversetion witt. loverner UchIYaa durin: which I encouraged
is frank roections to the aoolicntion in his prefecture of various
evernrentnl refor s thet  ve buen instituted.
iyme te a rorner ureer nemher  the Jupnese Foreign
servi e, is very friendly and ccoperutive, nd it is my observation
hnt e  exeoptiorlly eble.
Le 1 very critical of the "P kye tureaueraey" (und by
implication, ot its e unterpart in a ) which, he states, has
and i lar ely vitiutin- much or the aste pro ram for inereused
Loeal utomony   the inorense  t To1 overmsent gencies
directly operatin in the terecture    unds thet Natronal
lovern ent sd.iaistration is the re horst.  stuted thnt, on
tre whole, te minister in. he i 
11
reerent witliey
they are to oft he
everyevice

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDNTIAL
-2-
down to such operations as the enforeement on the highmays of the
gasoline rationing regulations. Thus, while, as Governor, the peepls
and the Occupation forces hold him responsible in inoreasing meesare,
his actual authority is oonstantly curtailed.
At the same time he felt that Prefectural Government is
unnecessarily increasing in complexity, many of the reforms coming from
Tokyo requiring that a separate section be set up by the Prefecture
to handle that particular project. As an example, he stated that
he is presently being required to establish a separate section,
staffed entirely with women, to handle the administration of what
I gathered was a measure regarding nurses and midwives, whereas he
felt that its administration could more effectively and oconomically
be handled within the framework of the already existing Publie Health
Section.
He was also critical of the extent of the reform of the
police system. He stated thst the requirement that separate police
forces be established by villages down to 5,0o0 population was ill-
advised, inefficient, and uneconomical under the conditions of very
dense population in Japan. He stated that at present the support
of one policeman is approximately ¥l00,000 a year, and that the
smaller villages were unable to afford the cost of an effective
independent force. He stated that under the new system, the
administrative organization of the Yokohama City police force was
larger than the former organization for the entire prefecture of
Kanagawa, and because of the divided authority, much less effective.
He stated that the Agrarian Land Reform program was progressing
satisfactorily in the Prefecture in its broad outlines, and that
XR
the land owners were generally reconciled to the inevitability of
its enforcement. However, it was working very badly in many oases
894.52
as Land Conmittees are declaring forest lands to be "agricultural
land" subject to redistribution with the result that the trees are
894.61
being cut from land not suitable for cultivation and the orosion
and flood problem is thereby being greatly intensified. Even
though such land is in some cases not actually declared to be
agricultural land and placed under cultivation, the threat that it
may be done is sufficient to couse the owners to strip off the
trees in an effort to realize their value prior to the forced sale
of the land. He also stated that there had been a particularly
bad abuse of the law in Kamakura where very high value building
lots made from recovered land on the beach front had been declared
"agricultural land" and subjected to forced sale at very nominal
prices because the owners, unable to build because of the shortage
of materials, had used the land for the cultivation of gardens.
He brunded most of the tenant members of the Land Committees in the
Prefecture as "Communist-like" in their aggressive approach to the
implementation of the law, and stated th=t the "neutral" members
of the Committees were indifferent to the problem and therefore
did not exercise the balence intended in the law. However, he
felt that in spite of the safeguards in the law, natural economic
forces would quickly reassert themselves, and, in one way or another,
effective
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 686,
Ootober 22, 1948.
CONFIDA.TIL
-心-
offective cwnership of the redistributed land would soon find
its way into the hand. o? the most enterprising.

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.87)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
: DIVISIÓN OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN A
DEPAKTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIONS AND RÉCORDS TÉLEGRAPH BRANCN
DEC 21948
ADLRAM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
4050
FRCH:
USPOLAD, Tokyo
Datad:
Novenber 16, 1948
Date of ailing: November 17, 1948
Rec d: Dec. 27, 2:54' p.0
4
Z
(For Dept Jse Onty)
AOTOF:
FI
InFC
seeretary of soat
DC/P
ash
T,
0
o16
In neonsnec iy vo believe to oe United btates polioy re
ardin a radue) retun o l Japanose movernment of certain segments
or its so creipity cusing  retreaty perdod, the Department p com-
ments and usgestios tor tuph anentation would be welconed concerning
the folloving:
Uuer tre cost puere ter pelicy fer Janan the Japanese Jovermment
is donicd ali con ro oves ite Foreian relatiens. This Mission, as the
stonati etsen cr Gene deadcpartere, has therefore served as the
nel  u eh themese ipistry for Foreign Affairs carries
a con ea one  t fo overmments r heir missions in Japan.
etvathsteaain, won dirrtultiee vhi eh mi ght arise were the Jape pese
"cre fie  d cet n suojects of an administrative pature
itn for ign overirnte  treir represontatives in Japan, we feal that
the ie ras crrive vhen son derati on  well bo civen to a radual
iboralisstion of th poliy tn rosuect  the conduct of Japanese
forcin relatione.
e consider ch as u ultimate. the coal, during the pre-treaty
period, shmull be a cradual inercase in porniusible functions vis-a-vis
the  orla  large y the Janese Forein Office leadins to the conduct
of its ovn affaire on   mir of a treaty of peace. Only in this
way would it appour possi e for the Japanese Foreign Office to obtain
reouisite experienee and t ain appropriate personnel required to parry
on the forein affa or  n ucon the returm of full sovereigity.
FILED
e further bel ve th tre above recommendation should be carriedo
i in whole or in art at the earlicst practicable date during the
riod of the Cecupation hile decuate supervision and uicdance io
a Oecupation c ebive, t rowt of a healthy Japunese Foreign
 n etraints are
UT
fully
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central Nies with notation of action taken.

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.86)
1
oo ct  14 nd 15 leave
  suppome somander in
De artment favors a
 rest in placing
mnre intctry for Forcien
L  e Deparoment mdght wish
e Somander as to hia views
 ecnt coumunication). It is
iuy t ba to the effeet that
 osesdint and t e way would
h inst cuction es may uppeal
ut ot hiphl. paortier larly
tes wich Surepean councries
D
AUG 1 8 1954
FILED

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
L - General Snow
DATE: 1/31/49
N
FROM
NA - Mr. Bond
SUBJECT:
Possible Extension of Japanese Responsibility for 1ts
External Relations.
894.01/1-1642
You may recall tnat 1n his A1rgram 227 of November 16,
1948 (copy attacned) Mr. Sebald suggested that the Depart-
ment might wish to consider the desirability and feasibility
of permitting, in the field of foreign relations, a gradual
return to the Japanese Government of certain segment: of
ite sovereignty during the pre-treaty neriod.
Trie Division hes reviewed this problem in the attached
background paper and has reached the preliminary conclusion
that an early extenslon of Japan's responsibilities in
forelgn affairs would be desirable and probably feasible.
However, a re-examination of the problem in the light of
68
US-Sovlet relations is contemplated.
It would be much appreciated if you would go over the
10
background paper and inform me now far you believe we can
legally go in the desired irection. Specifically, what
legal impediments are there to our permitting the Japanese
Government, at a time considered cesirable by us, to resume
1-1648
some of its foreign affairs functions? In your opinion how
might trese impediments best be overcome?
Al.pcnment8
CONTIDENTINN

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.93)
UNITED STATES POLITICAL ADVISER
G.UOF
FOR JAPAN
No. 820
is assigned to
RESTRICTED
FE
Subject: Scandals in the Japanese Government
D JAN 12 PM 2 54
DEPARTAENT OF STATE
2x个's
TheHonorable
The Secretary of State,
Nashington.
Sir
I have the honor to enclose a summary of reports of
corruption involving Japanese Government operations and
TIN
of measures taken to investigate these cases and prose-
FE
cute offenders. The summary was prepared by Foreign
C : IES
Service Officer h. B. Finn.
TO.
0
These cases are considered significant not only
4TF
because of their relation to the Japanese political and
bFD
economic situation but also as an indication of the
OLI
effectiveness of Japanese legal procedures. The various
DAK
cases now under investigation have involved many legisla-
tors and governi.ent officials; and one case, the Showa
Denko case, resulted in the resignation of a cabinet
and the later arrest of its Frime Winister. The principal
894.50
cases involve large amounts of goods and money: war
materials estimated to have been worth the equivalent
of millions of United States dollars, Japanese Government
loans amounting to several billion yen, and bribes to
1
government officials totaling several million yen. The
CS/A
Japanese law-enforcement system, which has been completely
reorganized during the Occupation period, has been
severely tested by the large problems presented by these
cases.
The enclosed summary outlines the facts of several
MAY 9 1949
of the more important cases, describes the legal proce-
dure being followed in connection with them, and summarizes
FILE
the significance of the issues raised.
It should be emphasized that there have been no
judicial findings of fact or determinations of guilt
in most of the major eeses now being widely publicized
F  
in
RESTHICTED
GR
Ni91.

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948
-2-
in Japan, although certain facts stand forth and much
credible evidence has been disclosed during investiga-
tions to date.
Respectfully yours,
lorBecaee
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure:
Summary of Japanese
Government Scandals
Original and ozalid to Department.
800
RBFinn:vw
RESTRICTED
enm

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Despatch No. 820
dated December 31, 1948 from the
RESTRICTED
United States Political Adviser
for Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
"Scandals in the Japanese Goverm
SULMARY OF JAPANESE GOVERNMENT SCANDALS
Frepared by Foreign Service Officer Richard B. Finn
I. Principal Cases of Corruption in Government Operations
Arms Disposal Case. This case involves allegations
that the Japanese Government was defrauded in the sale
of scrap metal returned to it by the Allied Powers for
use in the Japanese economy.
In September 1945, General Headquarters, Supreme
Commander for the Allied Powers, returned to the Japa-
nese Government all surrendered military supplies for
the relief and renabilitation of the Japanese economy.
To dispose of the returned supplies, the value of which
has been estimated at about one billion United States
dollars, the government assigned responsibility to its
various ministries.
Disposition of scrap metal was placed under the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry subject to policy
control by the Home Ministry. These two ministries,
upon the advice of Occupation officers, organized the
Arms Disposal Committee (Heiki Shori Iinkai) under the
chairmanship of KOMaTSU Takashi, at that time a director
of the Japan Steel Tube Company. As members of the
Committee, representatives of five large industrial
companies were selected: Japan Iron and Steel Company
(Nihon Seitetsu K. K.); Japan Steel Tube Company
(Nihon Kokan K. K.); Fuso Light Letals Company (Fuso
Kinzoku Kogyo K. K.); Kobe Steel Company (Kobe Seiko
K. K.); and the Furukawa Electric Company (Furukawa
Denki K. K.). Occupation authorities were reported
as stating that they considered business men familiar
with the metal industry to be those best suited to
handle this program.
The Arms Disposal Committee (ADC) commenced
operations in November 1945. It appears to have had
full authority to dispose of all scrap metal, includ-
ing scrapped tanks and planes; this scrap was to be
bought from the Home Ministry and sold at prices fixed
by the Japanese Government. The proceeds were to be
turned over to the Japanese Government. The Committee's
initial task was to inventory the stocks of goods which
it was supposed to handle; Occupation officials,
particularly economic officers of the United States
Eighth Army, indicated their interest in having such
an inventory compiled.
Compilation
RESTRICTED

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
- 2 -
Compilation of an inventory of the metal products
returned to the Japanese Government proved impossible.
Many of the stockpiles were distributed by the Japanese
Government immediately after the surrender because
Japanese authorities apparently thought that only
purely military items, such as ammunition, planes,
and tanks, were required to be surrendered to the
Allied Powers. The stocks of goods which were not
distributed were scattered at many points throughout
Japan. Inventories of these goods were to be prepared
by local police and prefectural officials and to be
forwarded to the Home Minister in Tokyo, who would in
turn submit them to the ADC. Ignorance of this proce-
dure on the part of many officials, aggravated by the
confusion prevailing at the war's end, resulted in
incomplete inventories. The lack of homogeneity among
the scrap products under the Committee's jurisdiction
also posed an accounting problem. In addition there
is reason to believe that illegal raids on these stocks
continued in spite of Occupation orders and Japanese
Government instructions.
The Committee nevertheless proceeded to purchase
and sell scrap in accordance with its authorized proce-
dure. In ay 1946 it made a contract with the Home
Ministry formalizing the arrangements under which it
had been operating. The Committee had been meeting
regularly and had been in close liaison with the
Government and the Occupation, although its liaison
on a local level appears to have been poor. Government
authorities appear, however, to have exercised very
little supervision over the ADC.
The expense of scrapping and transporting metal
products was not offset by the income derived from
relatively low fixed prices. The final accounts of
the Committee as of September 1947 when it ceased
operations showed that it nad received about ¥1,250,000,000;
1ts expenses had amounted to about ¥1,500,000,000. Upon
suspension of its activities it turned over to the
Industrial Reconstruction Corporation (Sangyo Fukko
Kodan) of the Japanese Government about 440,O00 tons
of scrap, the proceeds from which will, it is expected,
more than make up the deficit.
Rumors had been constantly circulating throughout
Japan since the surrender to the effect that large
amounts of the military supplies returned to Japan
by the Allies, including metal products, had been
illegally disposed of and were being hoarded in antici-
pation of rising prices. To investigate these claims,
a committee was establisned in 1947 by the House of
Representatives of the Japanese Diet in accordance with
Article 62 of the new Japanese Constitution; this
committee was designated as the Hoarded Goods Investigation
Committee
RESTRICTED

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-3-
Committee (Intoku Eusshi Tekihatsu Iinkai) and was headed
by KATo Kanju, a prominent member of the Social Demoeratic
Farty. After a detailed investigation the Kato Committeo
reported at the end of 1947 that there were very large
amounts of goods being kept off the Japanese market by
speculators.
Investigations into the source and whereabouts of
hoarded goods nave continued. In early 1948 the Hoarded
Goods Committee was renamed the Illegal Froperty Trans-
actions Investigation Committee (Futo Zaisan Torihiki
Chosa Iinkai). This committee became known as the Muto
Committee after Kato's resignation. A special subcom-
mittee was specially assigned to investigate the activities
of the Arms Disposal Committee. It is noteworthy that
interest in the "hoarded goods scandal," sup osed to
involve several billion yen worth of oods, has centered
almost exclusively in the scrap netal disposal program,
although these operations were but a smali part of the
total military goods disposal program. Lembers of the
subcommittee charged that the ADC received about 7,O00,000
tons of metal for disposition and had accounted for only
1,300,000 tons; no proof of this charge has been advanced,
however, and the uto Committee has been unable to demon-
strate any conclusive evidence of blackmarket activities
or illegal disposition of goods by the ADC.
Folice and procuratorial authorities of the Japanese
Government have also taken up the case. Chairman Komatsu,
who had resigned from the Committee shortly after his
purge in 1947, was arrested on 0ctober 2, 1948 by the
Tokyo District Frocurator's Office on suspicion of graft
and violation of Occupation orders directing that goods
returned by the Allied Fowers be used for the relief and
rehabilitation of the Japanese economy. The Supreme
Procurator's Office of the Japanese Government through
its local offices commenced investigation of the case in
April of this year and by 0ctober 15, 1948 was reported
to have detained for questioning seventy-two officials
of the former Arms Disposal Committee, all of them con-
nected with the five large industrial companies which had
served as agents for the Committee. An indictment was
returned against Komatsu on the charge that by having
permitted the spending of ¥23,000,000 of the Committee's
funds in entertainment and social activity, he had
violated Imperial Ordinance 3ll requiring compliance
with Cccupation orders and had thereby committed a
breach of public trust. No other indictments have been
returned in connection with the Arms Disposal case.
Showa Denko Case. This case, which has been outlined
in this Mission's despatch no. 667, 0ctober 11, 1948,
involves bribes paid high governmont officials for procuring
794.002
1081
huge
x2 899.659
RESTRICTED
1894.9

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
- 4 -
huge loans from the Reconstruction Finance Bank (RFB) for
the Showa Denko K. K. (Electric Fertilizer Company).
Disclosure of tne alleged bribes led to the arrests among
others of nU.us Takeo and NIsHIC Suehiro, prominent
members of the tovernment parties constituting the
AStiIDA Catinet, and resulted in the decision by the
Asnida Cabinet to resign on October 7, 1948. Further
investigations into the operations of the RFB disclosed
other cases of Ios itle tritery, one of which led to
the arrest of former Iremier ishida nimself on December 8,
1948.
Snowa Denko is capitalized at ¥244,000,000 and owns
fifteen plants; the com any's ;rincipal product is
fertilizer, althougn it also manufactures aluminum and
mines coal. Tne con.pany received a total of about
¥2,500,000,000 in loans from the Fb in addition to a
loan from a conmercial banking syndicate cf 440,500,000
received tnrougn ani guaranteed by the AFB. Showa Denko
thus received two-tnirds of the amount of money the RFE
was authorized to loan to the fertilizer industry,
altnough the company is but the fifth largest fertilizer
com any in Japan, producing only about 15% of the total
cutput. shcwa Denko as a "restricted" company, one
whose activiti s were subject to scrutiny by the Holding
Comany Liguidation Comi ittee cf the Japanese Government,
and resumatly tne loans to it from the liFt were also
examined by officials of ueneral eadquarters, Supreme
Commender for the Allied icwers.
In september 1946 the company, then under the pres1-
dency of .OnI satoru, received a loan from the kFE of
¥799,200,000. .cri was urgeu in march 1947 and was
succeeded in april by ilc.h setsuzo, wno had been
president of the Japan :iydrogen Com; any up to that time;
while president of the Hydrogen Company, Hinchara had made
a loan of ¥200,000 to rurusu, a !ro! inent leader of the
Democratic iarty, who wes then campaigning for election to
the House of Councillors. In July 1947 Snowa Denko received
a second 1oan from tne .Fb of ¥555,200,000, and in December
1 47 a t ird loan of *1,2 4, 30,000. These loans appear to
have contributed greatly to the rehalilitation of the company.
No part of these loans has been repaid, although the company
is meeting the interest installments on the loans.
Kurusu, after his election to the Diet, was appointed
Finance Linister in tne c: binet of kaTaYah Tetsu. He
served as Finance Minister and concurrertly as Chairman
of the hFE from June 24, 1947 to march 10, 1948, and served
later in the ashida Cabinet as Director-General of the
Economic Stabilization Loard (Est). Thus two large loans
were made to the Showa Denkc Company while kurusu was
Finance inister and Cnairman of the i.Fh. As Director-
General of the Esb, Kurusu was ex officio vice chairman
of
RTHICTED

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948.
- 5 -
of the RFB. There is considerable evidence indicating
that the elevation of Hinohara, who was relatively unknown
in business circles, to the presidency of the large and
important Showa Denko was engineered chiefly by Kurusu.
Following the model of the United States Reconstruc-
tion Finance Corporation, the Japanese Government established
the kFb in 1946 as a government-owned banking corporation
to assist in the rehabilitation of the Japanese economy
by lending money to private enterprise, especially in
cases where funds from private banks were not available.
The bank was placed under the chairmanship of the Finance
Minister and the vice-chairmanship of the Director-
General of the ESB, assisted by a committee of eight
including the Fresident of the Bank of Japan, the Minister
of Commerce and Industry, and the Minister of Agriculture.
Since the RFh has no branches, the Industrial Bank of
Japan and its local tranches serve as agents of the RFB;
the Governor of the Industrial Bank served as the secretary
of the RFB, and there has been considerable shifting of
personnel between the two organizations.
Kurusu and Hinohara are the central figures in the
Showa Denko case. Around them cluster a nost of govern-
ment officials and business men associated with the
Finance Ministry, the Democratic and the Social Democratic
Farties, the RFB, and Showa Denko. The entire group has
become the object of charges of large-scale bribery and
corruption.
The Tokyo Metropolitan Police Board undertook an
investigation of the Showa Denko company early in 1948,
after several blackmarket transactions of the company
had been revealed. The accounts of the company were
virtually unintelligible because a double bookkeeping
system was used but several suspicious entries involving
duplicate charges for large expenses were found. The
Police Board did not, nowever, pursue the case vigorously.
It is rumored that, because of dissstisfaction with the
Folice Board's dilatory methods, several junior police
officials wrote a letter to the Illegal Property Trans-
actions Investigation Committee (IFTIC) urging a full-scale
investigation. In April 1948 the Muto Committee began
its investigation.
The investigation ramified rapidly. Soon the Muto
Committee, the Tokyo District Frocurator's Office, and
the Tokyo Metropolitan Folice Loard were conducting
concurrent investigations. In September 1948 the National
Rural Folice was called in, presumably because of the
nation-wide activities of Showa Denko.
on
HESTRICTED

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-6 -
On the basis of these investigations it has been
claimed that at least ¥100,000,000 unaccounted loans
were made by the I.FE to Showa Denko. Various illegal
activities by government officials and the officers
of Showa Denko are alleged: that bribes of money,
houses, supplies, food and entertainment were given
freely by Showa Denko; that money was loaned by Showa
Denko to separate companies in which Showa Denko officers
had financial interests; that bookkeeping entries were
duplicated and expenditures concealed:
By the end of November 1948 over thirty persons
had been arrested and indicted in connection with the
Showa Denko case. The most prominent of these include:
Kurusu, indicted for accepting nuge bribes in addition
to receiving valuable gifts from Showa Denko for facili-
tating RFE loans; Hinohara, for illegal use of government
money; Nishio, who had also been Deputy Prime Minister
in the Ashida Cabinet, for accepting bribes of X1,000,000
from Hinohara; SUNAHahA Hideya and SATO Shuzo, secretaries
to Hinohara, for giving bribes; SHIGbhASA Masayuki, former
Vice Minister of Agriculture, for accepting a bribe of
¥1,O00,O0O; FUKUDA Takeo, former director of the Accounts
Bureau of the Finance Linistry, for accepting bribes; ONO
Eamboku, former secretary-General of the Democratic
Liberal Party, on suspicion of accepting a bribe from
Shigemasa for his efforts in trying to hush up Diet
investigations of Showa Denko; NInUaIYA Yoshimoto, Vice
President of the Industrial Bank of Japan and a director
of the RFB from October 1946 to August 1947, on suspicion
of accepting bribes from Hinohara for facilitating loans
to Showa Denko. Investigations of Showa Denko disclosed
other instances of possible malfeasance by Kurusu while
Chairman of FFb in the form of loans to various companies
in return for bribes.
The arrest of Kurusu on September 30, 1948, and of
Nishio on October 6 precipitated the resignation of the
Ashida Cabinet on October 7, 1948, and led to further
arrests on cnarges of corruption.' Interrogation of
Kurusu led to the arrest of OKA Naoki, president of the
Oka Gumi, on suspicion of having bribed Kurusu in order
to get loans for his construction company. This arrest
in turn led to the arrest on October 20, 1948 of SAK0MIZU
Hisatsune, who had been a prominent political figure
until purged in 194o, for acting as intermediary between
Kurusu and Oka. arly in November 1948 SHIMOKOE Mitsufumi,
son-in-law and private secretary of Ashida, was arrested
on suspicion of having conveyed a bribe of ¥1,000,000 to
Asnida from Oka in return for a loan of ¥7,000,000 from
the Industrial Bank of Japan; Oka received this loan in
December
RESTRICTED

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
- 7-
December 1947. Oka is reported to have given Ashida
another ¥500,000 1n March 1948. Press reports quote
Ashida as saying that he never received any money
personally from Oka or anyone else and that any money
paid Shimokobe or others by Oka must have been a
political contribution. Suspicion moved closer to
Ashida, however, and on December 7, 1948 he and two
other Diet members alleged to have been involved with
Oka were arrested, after a preliminary wrangle in the
Diet as to whether to concur in their arrest. SUGAwARA
Isusai, who is reputed to have been Ashida's chief
political patron and who is Hinohara's brother-in-law,
is also reported to be under close scrutiny.
The Muto Committee completed its investigation
of the Showa Denko case in November 1948. The Tokyo
District Procurator's Office as well as the National
Rural Folice are continuing their investigations. No
trials have started as a result of these investigations.
Coal Lobby Case
This case centers in charges that portions of huge
loans from the RFE to the mining industry as well as a
"slush fund" collected by certain coal operators were
used to oppose a bill introduced into the Diet for modi-
fied national control of all coal mines in Japan.
In the summer of 1947 the Katayama Cabinet presented
this bill to the Diet in accordance with its platform of
modified socialism. Although the bill became the subject
of intense controversy and was substantially altered as a
result of Diet debates, it was enacted into law in
November 1947.
Coal operators had taken the lead in opposing the
Govern ent's bill. humors were prevalent at the time
the Diet was considering the bili that large funds were
being used to defeat the bill. No large-scale investiga-
tion of these rumors was undertaken, however, either by
IPTIC or by legal authorities until October 1948 when
IFTIC opened public hearings. Frocuratorial authorities
in both Tokyo and Fukuoka entered the case soon there-
after; the case is being investigated under the direct
supervision of the Supreme Procurator's Office rather
than that of the Tokyo District Procurator's Office
because of its nation-wide implications.
Attention has been devoted primarily to finding the
source of funds which may have been used by operators to
lobby against the bill. There appear to have been two
main
RESTRICTED

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948.
-8-
main sources: first, the Reconstruction Finance Bank
in the last quarter of l946 lent Kyushu coal mining
companies a 11ttle over ¥5,000,000,000 in order to build
housing units for miners, and it has been alleged that
by misrepresenting costs the operators diverted large
parts of these loans to their own uses, including the
fight against the coal control bill; second, an associa-
tion of Kyushu operators created a fund totalling about
¥10,000,000, mostly derived from a levy of ¥10 per ton
of coal mined, in order to maintain a lobby in Tokyo
against the bill. Investigations to date have been able
to establisn very little in regard to misuse of RFb
loans; the existence of a "slush fund" of ¥10,000,000
has been clearly shown but the operators appear to have
succeeded in froving that no part of this fund was used
illegally, even though much of it was used for enter-
tainment of important people in Tokyo. Press articles
state that as much as ¥300,000,000 may have been used
illegally in order to defeat the control bill. Investi-
gating authorities indicate that they hope to break the
case in the near future.
icst of those arrested to date in connection with
this case nave been coal mine operators who are charged
with naving squandered public funds and offering bribes.
During the Diet sessicn which ended December 23, 1948
only one political figure of note was arrested, TANAkA
kakuei, a prominent contractor, who until his arrest was
Farliamentary Vice l.inister for the Attorney General's
Office in the present cabinet cf YOsHIDA Shigeru.
Tanaka, whose house was searched by procuratorial authori-
ties prior to his arrest, is suspected of having received
a bribe to oppose the coal bill in the Diet from KIsO
Shigeyoshi, a leading coal o erator who is also under
arrest.
The day after the Diet was dissolved, however, five
more Diet members were arrested in connection with this
case: 1ANAkA Manitsu, Democratic Liberal and former vice-
speaker of the House of Iepresentatives; TAkiDh Giichi,
Democrat and former Minister of welfare; NAGAC Tatsuo,
Democratic Liberal; FUnaTsU Tamaichiro, Democratic Liberal;
and AZUMA Shunei, Democratic Liberal.
Several other leading industrial and political figures
are under examination: UtriahA Etsujiro, a leader of the
Democratic Liberal Farty and member of the House of Council-
lors, is alleged to have received a bribe of ¥450,000 from
TAnkUCHI Reizo, an important coal operator; As0 Takakichi,
an operator, is alleged to have bribed both SHIDEHAR
Kijuro, then leader of the Doshi group in the Diet which
later joined the Democratic Liberal Party. Others rumored
to have received bribes are : FURUHATA Tokuya, Minister
of
RESTRICTED

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-9-
of Transportation in the 1948 Yoshida Cabinet; KITAMURA
Tokutaro, Finance Minister in the Ashida Cabinet and
frequently mentioned in connection with corrupt political
activities; HOsHIJIkA Jiro, Commerce and Industry Minister
in the first Yoshida Cabinet; HIrANO Rikizo, a minister
in the Katayama Cabinet; and NIsHIDA Takao, Democratic
Liberal Diet member.
The name of Yoshida Snigeru, the most recent Prime
Minister of Japan, has been widely publicized in connec-
tion with the Muto Committee investigation of this case.
Aso Takakichi, who is a prominent operator in Kyushu, is
Yoshida's son-in-law; Aso testified in October 1948 that
in 1947, as son-in-law, he gave Yoshida a total of
¥1,300,000 - ¥700,000 for the Democratic Liberal Party,
¥350,000 for Yosh1da's property taxes, and ¥250,000 for
Yoshida's miscellaneous expenses. This aspect of the
case has thus far not been pursued, although the press
has several times referred to opposition political party
interest in exploiting it.
A series of minor scandals or ones which have not
as yet developed have been revealed in activities of
government officials.
Nishio Case. Prior to his arrest in connection
with the Showa Denko case, Nishio Suehiro was arrested
in July 1948 on charges of perjury before the Muto
Committee and of violation of an executive ordinance
(Cabinet Ordinance No. 328) requiring registration of
contributions to political parties.
During the Diet election campaign in 1947, Nishio,
who was then Secretary General of the Social Democratic
Party, received ¥500,000 from a group of contractors, who
made a joint contribution to all the major political
parties. Nishio did nct publicly register receipt of
this contribution, a legal requirement in the case of
contributions to a political party, and when the propriety
of his not having done so was chalienged before the Muto
Committee starting in May 1948, he defended his action
by saying this was a contribution to be disposed in his
personal judgment and not by the social Democratic Farty
as such; he said he gave ¥loo,Oo0 to the Political
Affairs Research Bureau of the party, in effect the party's
national committee, and the remaining ¥400,000 was accounted
for as having gone to various political activities.
The
RESTRICTED

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
- 10 -
The investigation of Nishio before the Diet committee
raised a considerable political stir and Nishio was forced
to resign from the Diet to permit his arrest by procura-
torial authorities. His trial began on July 17 before
the Tokyo District Court, and on August 27 he was acquitted
on both counts of the indictment, the court holding
that the donation was made to Nishio personally. The
case was appealed by the procurators snd in September
hearing of the appeal began tefore the Tokyo Higher Court,
which upheld the decision of the lower court. The case
is now being appealed by the Government to the Supreme
Court of Japan because of the important legal principle
involved.
Textile Bureau Case. This case involved alleged
illegalities by the Commerce and Industry Ministry in
allocating textile materials and spindles to various
companies controlled by Ush.UkA Kiyoshi, a member of the
"new yen" class, in return for financial favors. Umemura
is also accused of having bribed many prominent govern-
ment officials in the last two years.
Fress reports contained the following allegations
in this case: that Umemura nade large contributions to
officials in the Higashikuni, Shidehara, Yoshida, Katayama,
and Ashida Cabinets; that Umemura's Far East Spinning
Company (Toa Kogyo K. K.), which has become a large,
powerful textile company, was allotted 826,000 pounds of
short silk cocoon fiber and was sold large amounts of
textile fiber by the Government in the period immediately
following the war's end, when Hoshijima Jiro was Commerce
and Industry Minister; that Umemura disposed of some of
his products in the blackmarket; that Umemura's Gifu
Spinning Co. received a disproportionately large share
of the spindles awarded by the Government in December 1947
when IzUTallI Chosaburo was Commerce and Industry Minister
in the Katayama Cabinet; that more recent illegal trans-
actions involving bribes and blackmarket sales of textiles
have implicated Umemura with Kato Kanju, SUZUkI Mosaburo,
and whDh Hiroo, all prominent Social Democratic Party
members, as weil as with Democratic Liberal Party members.
Frime Minister Yoshida is also alleged to have received
a political contribution of ¥1,000,000 from Umemura but
has claimed in rebuttal that he merely signed a letter
of appreciation tc Umemura for the contritution.
The Tokyo District Procurators and the Tokyo Metro-
politan Police have made several arrests in this case,
including Umemura and two other textile manufacturers,
kOKUEC Kisaburo and EGUCHI Shiro. HOSHIJIMA Toichi, son
of Hoshijima Jiro, ras also been arrested on suspicion
of having received bribes from Umemura for procuring
favored treatment from his father.
on
RESTRICTED

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948.
- 11 -
On December 30, 1948, the Tokyo istrict Procurator's
Office announced that all political figures connected with
this case had been released from suspicion and that the
political contributions made by Umemura were legal. The
textile operators, however, remained in confinement on
suspicion of blackmarket activity.
II. Law Enforcement L.easures
Reorganization of the structure of the Japanese
Government under the Occupation has necessitated almost
complete revision of the investigative and law-enforcement
agencies of the government. The cases described above
are providing a stiff test of the effectiveness of the
new system.
Frior to Japan's surrender the Home Linistry was
the key organ in the investigation of alleged illegalities
and apprehension of supposed violators, while the court
system, including the procurators, came under the Ministry
of Justice. As control of the Japanese State became more
centralized, the areas of legal jurisdiction tended to
blend, and in many cases the central government, acting
particularly through the Home Ministry, conducted investi-
gations and prosecutions on a highly arbitrary basis.
Post-war reorganization has separated and decentralized
the various agencies concerned with investigation and
prosecution, and made them autonomous. The task of redefin-
ing areas of jurisdiction and of securing the coordination
necessary for an effective legal system has proved difficult.
It is proposed here to discuss briefly the role of the Diet
investigating committee, the procurators, and the police
in relation to cases involving national government opera-
tions. since very few of these cases have been tried
before courts, the role of the courts will not be discussed.
IrTIC. The Illegal Froperty Transactions Investiga-
tion Committee of the House of Representatives of the
Japanese Diet has played a very important part in the
above cases, both in revealing vital facts and in publi-
cizing them to the Japanese people.
Fower to investigate was not held by the Diet prior
to enactment of the new Constitution. This power, which
is clearly modelled upon that of committees of the United
States Congress in respect to government expenditures,
is a broad one and appears to be designed to buttress the
supremacy of the Diet as the highest organ of state power.
Article 62 of the new Constitution in translation states,
"Each House may conduct investigations in relation to
government, and may demand the presence and testimony of
witnesses, and the production of records."
Under
RESTRICTED

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
- 12 -
Under this authorization the House of hepresentatives
in 1947 established the Hoarded Goods Investigation
Committee under the chairmanship of KaTO Kanju. This
committee made extensive investigations of charges that
large stocks of goods, particularly military goods returned
to the Japanese Government by the Allied Powers, had been
secreted throughout Japan and were being sed for blackmarket
speculation. The committee filed a lengthy report in
December 1947 containing the results of its investigations;
this report described caches of hidden goods that had
been revealed, estimated amounts that were involved in
illegal transactions, and noted the opposition that the
committee had met in its work. In the light of later
developaents it would appear that the report exaggerated
the extent of illegal activity involved; in any case
most of the conclusions drawn appear to nave been lacking
in the substance required for legal action.
In January 1948 this committee, consisting of thirty
members, was reconstituted the Illegal Property Transac-
tions Investigation Committee, still under the chairmanship
of kato. as a result of the resignation of the Katayama
Cabinet the committee was inactive until April 1948;
Muto Unjuro, a Social Democrat generally considered to
be of its left wing, was named chairman to succeed Kato,
who had been named Labor Minister by Frime inister
Ashida. The committee, which for several months was
active primarily in investigating the Nishio case,
established a special subcommittee headed by YOnEI
Terusaburo of the Democratic Liberal Farty, to investigate
the Arms Disposal Committee; TOkUDA Kyuichi, a prominent
member of the Japan Communist Party, has been very active
on this subcommittee. The IFTIC has devoted its attention
in the last six months mainly to the Arms Disposal case,
the Showa Denko case (which it began in May 1948), the
Coal Mine State Control bill case, and several general
investigations of blackmarket activities and corruption
in government circles.
The committee has submitted to the Speaker of the
House of kepresentatives a lengthy report concerning the
Arms Disposal case, the facts of which appear to be
accurate although the charge of gross negligence levelled
against the Arms Disposal Committee seems rather extreme
in the light of the facts described. The committee
deserves the greatest credit for breaking the Showa Denko
case after preliminary police investigations had failed
to do so. The committee's investigations of the other
alleged scandals are as yet in preliminary stages.
IPTIC
RESTRICTED

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-13-
IFTIC has its own investigators, who work closely
with the public procurators.
Frocurator System. The present procurator system
was established in November 1947 by a law which made it
a separate and virtually autonomous branch within what
is now the Attorney General's office. The procurators
are organized on three levels parallel to but separate
from the new court system - District Frocurators' Offices
Superior Frocurators' Offices, and the Supreme Procurator's
Office.
The procurators appr hend law violators after appli-
cation to courts, a power shared with the police, and
are solely responsible for prosecuting those suspected
of breaking the law. The procurators are thus faced
with a heavy responsibility since they must arrest and
indict alleged offenders and irepare cases for court.
The fact that the police system was reorganized even
more recently than the procurator system has meant that
the police have been able to give little support to the
procurators in criminal cases which are not of a routine
nature. Post-war conditions in Japan, particularly the
extreme inflation, have resulted in unwillingness of
trained personnel to serve as procurators when more
money and better opportunities are available elsewhere.
As a result, procurator staffs have been undermanned
and have in many cases consisted of poorly trained
officials; there nave been several publicized instances
also where procurators themselves accepted bribes for
desisting from prosecuting cases.
The flood of charges of large-scale corruption in
government activities has imposed a tremendous burden on
procurators, especially those in the Tokyo District
Frocurator's Office, which is responsible for presenting
to the courts criminal cases in Tokyo To. It does not
appear to have been anticipated by anyone connected with
the establishment or initial operation of the present
procurator system that the Tokyo office would be called
on to handle cases as complex as the Showa Denko case.
The procurators have therefore had to improvise procedures
to nandle such cases.
Investigations like the Arms Disposal case and the
Coal Lobby case have, because of their extensive ramifica-
tions, been handled by special agencies within the Tokyo
Superior Procurator's Office in liaison with District
Frocurators' Offices. The Showa Denko case, however, has
been handled largely by the Tokyo District Frocurator's
Office in conjunction with the Tokyo Metropolitan Police
Bureau
RESTRICTED

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
- 14-
Eureau and later the National. hural Police. The Tokyo
police are also active in pursuing the Textile Bureau
investigation; since this case involves primarily black-
market activities rather than financial juggling it is
better suited to police investigation. The Supreme
Frocurator's Office in Tokyo coordinates all these
operations.
The irocurators move very slowly both in investiga-
tions and in preferring charges. For example, the books
of both the Arms Disposal Committee and of the Showa
Denko company were seized many months before the procurators
arrested more than a few minor individuals concerned. In
addition, indictments, which are by law returned against
individuals within ten days of their arrest, are followed
by long periods before trial while the procurators continue
to gather evidence. The new Code of Criminal Procedure,
which comes into effect on January 1, 1949, is expected
to cause great difficulty because of the extensive changes
it makes in the criminal procedure system, even though the
ten-day detention period before an indictment must be
returned is extended to twenty days.
It is of course impossible to judge the effect of
the procurators' work in the absence of trials and court
decisions. They operate in privacy, with relatively
little publicity, and the worth of their evidence and
of their presentation of cases cannot be determined
until a judicial body has had a chance to pass on them.
Police. The Japanese police system has been com-
pletely reorganized under the Occupation. The key to
this revision has been decentralization: the police
system as inaugurated in arch 1948 consists of the
National hural Folice and the Local Autonomous Folice
units. This separation neces itated breaking the former
tightly united police system into separate units all
over Japan with a separate national organization; the
authorized strength of the National hural Police (NRF)
is set at 30,o00 men and that of the municipal police
at 95,000 men. The NhP organization is separately
controlled and administered by the National Public Peace
Loard and the Fref ctural Fublic Feace Committees, while
the municipal police are operated by the local municipal
units; the two organizations are expected to cooperate
closely and in case of national emergency to work
together.
The police have played only a minor role in the
cases under consideration. They have, however, done much
of the original investigating necessary for laying a
foundation for prosecution; their disclosure of blackmarket
activities
RESTRICTED

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948.
-15-
activities opened the way for more sensaticnal discoveries
in both the Showa Denko case and the Textile Bureau
investigations. The nation-wide ramifications of the
Showa Denko case resulted in a call to the NRF in Septem-
ber 1948 for assistance; the NhF since that time has
helped the procurators in collecting evidence and
arresting suspects. The Tokyo Letropolitan Folice have
been especially active in the Textile bureau investigation.
In general tne police are sulordinated in this type of case
to the procurators: the procurators nave directed the
investigations and the authority of tne police to make
the arrests is subject to application to a court through
the Irocurators. In cases of overnment corruption involv-
ing extensive financial transactions, the police serve
largely as agents of tne procurators.
III. Conclusion
The effectiveness of Japan's new legal procedures in
their application to the cases described above cannot yet
be fully evaluated. The ccnclusion is irresistable,
nowever, that Japanese tovernmental and :olitical party
activity is in many important res!ects both corrupt and
extremely inefiicient.
The Illegal Froperty Transacticns Investigating
Committee of the iouse of hepresentatives has rendered
irvelueble service in aisclosine important evidence of
corrupticn and in widely publicizing tnese cases.
IrTIc is not, nowever, reyuired to conform with judicial
standards in its investigaticn of evidence and examination
of witnesses, and it is undeniable that committee members
have been motivated to & considerable degree by desire
to gain publicity and to make public re utations. The
impact of the committee's revelations on the Japanese
public has been profound and this effect by stimulating
interest in cleaner government end politics may well
prove to be the legislative body's most lasting contri-
bution in this regard.
Assisted by Diet investigating committees, the procu-
rators constitute the key crganization for preparing and
prosecuting cases based on charges of corrupt political
and governmental activity. The procurators appear still
to lack the requisite personnel and training to cope fully
with cases involving financial operations of considerable
magnitude on a nation-wide scale. Although charges
of corruption can be made freely in the Diet and in
the press, the procurators must prepare their indict-
ments in conformity with the more exacting requirements
of law, and this has imposed a heavy burden on them.
Indication that cases of corruption often involve many
people
RESTRICTED

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-16 -
people and many operations in a complex pattern has necess1-
tated deliberate investigation, despite premature and
partial public disclosures. Frocurators have therefore
been forced to move slowly; but in several of the cases
the lapse of time between return of the indictment and
commencement of trial is provin unjustifiably long.
There has been almost no criticism that the procura-
tors or the police have acted unfairly or illegally in
any of these cases.
Several legal points are noteworthy. First is the
problem of immunity of Diet members from arrest while the
Diet is in session; this immunity, subject to exception,
is stipulated in Article 50 of the present Constitution.
Already six Diet members, including Nishio and Ashida,
have been arrested during Diet sessions after petition
has been made through the courts and the Frime Minister
to the presiding officer of the House concerned. The
conflicting public interests of apprehending alleged law
breakers on the one nand and on the other of enabling
the chosen representatives of the people to deliberate
freely upon legislation, nake it a moot question whether
the spirit of the constitutional provision is being
violated. A second significant legel point is raised by
the decision in the Nishio case by the Tokyo District
Court, namely that contributions to an individual, though
of a large amount and later used for political purposes,
need not be registered while political party contributions
must in accordance with law be registered. This ruling
may enable many political leaders now under investigation
to claim that any amounts they may nave received were
contributions to them personally and not bribes or politi-
cal donations. Conversely donors will claim that they
were making contributions to individual political leaders
and were not extending bribes. It seems certain that the
courts will be forced to clarify the distinction between
political contributions and contributions to an individual
for political purposes.
The evidences of corruption disclosed in the cases
now being widely publicized in Japan indicate a wide
extent to illegal and immoral practice in Japanese public
life. Appended as a subenclosure is a list showing the
thirty-four Diet members who have been arrested during
the past two years and indicating their political party
and the charge made against them. It seems reasonable to
say that the standards of public morality and of law
enforcement in Japan have never been of a high order;
the attempt to impose occidental standards has brought
to the surface some of the venal and arbitrary aspects
of Japanese political conduct. It is highly encouraging,
however
RESTRICTED

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-17-
however, that these aspects are being exposed and that
the public indignation caused by them is so great.
In partial explanation of this situation, the large
need of funds in Japanese politics should be noted. It
is commonly estimated that to run for the Diet costs at
least one million yen, an amount which only the richest
Diet members can afford; currency inflation has aggravated
the seriousness of the problem. The temptation for
politicians to accept contributions is therefore wide-
spread and strong, and too often the situation turns into
one of bribery for political favors. In several of the
instances already described, however, the line between
simple pitical contributions and bribery is indistinct.
The gross inefficiency of many agencies of the Japa-
nese Government as evidenced under post-war conditions is
also a contributory factor. In the chaos prevailing at
the war's end, many vital operations of the government were
virtually suspended. Government assets - both money and
supplies - were taken by people in that period through
fear and ignorance as well as through unlawful intent;
large-scale removals of these assets were possible largely
because of the lack of government supervision and resulted
in the arms disposal scandal and in some of the accusa-
tions being made in the textile scandal. Fapid changes
in the Japanese Government caused frequent shifting of
leading officials and made it difficuit to fix responsi-
bility. The interlocking of tne executive and legislative
branches of the government makes it possible for unscrupulous
politicians to direct to their own advantage the implementa-
tion of laws they have enacted. The operations of the
heconstruction Finance Bank illustrate many of the undesira-
ble aspects of Japanese Government operations today -
shortage of trained personnel, frequent changes in personnel,
lack of field units or of reliable agencies to supervise
use of loans, general control of financial activity by
the Finance vinistry and consequent involvement in political
activity. The very psychology of an inflationary period
when uncertainty in values makes for irresponsibility and
unaccustomed illicit operations in the effort at self-
protection, has played its part.
The effect of Japanese financial corruption upon the
Japanese and the Jr ited States taxpayer has been noted
in the press. Tne squandering of large loans by Japanese
financial insitutions has meant an added imposition on
the already overburdened Japanese taxpayer and has no doubt
greatly increased his indignation at these scandals.
wasting
RESTHICTED

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820
December 31, 1948.
-18-
wasting of meager Japanese assets also means that American
aid to Japan is prevented from making its most effective
contribution and in addition raises doubts as to the
ability of the Japanese Government to administer the
nation efficiently and honestly.
The defects of Japan's political system are being
brought to light, however, and the effectiveness of its
new legal system tested by the investigations and legal
actions being undertaken. It is hoped that this experience
will strengthen the desire of the Japanese people to
reform their government and will ultimately result in
better government.
Richard B. Fi
Richard B. Pinn
oreign Service Officer
Sub-enclosure:
List of 34 Diet Members
Arrested in 1947-48.
800
RBFinn:vw

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
Sub-enclosure to Despatch No. 820 dated
December 31, 1948 from the United States
RESTRICTED
Political Adviser for Japan, Tokyo, on
the subject "Scandals in the Japanese
Government".
LIST OF 34 DIET MEMBERS ARRESTED IN 1947-1948
Date of Indict-
ment or Arrest
Name
Party
Charge
House of Representatives
1. SHOWA DENKO CASE
September 28, 1948
ONO Banboku
(Democratic-Liberal)
Accepting bribes
October 14, 1948
OZAWA Senshichiro
(New Liberal)
Bribery
October 15, 1948
NISHIO Suehiro
(Social Democrat)
Accepting bribes
December 16, 1948
ASHIDA Hitoshi
(Democratic)
Accepting bribes
December 16, 1948
KAWAHASHI Toyojiro (New Liberal)
Assisting in
bribery
December 16, 1948
KITAURA Keitaro
(Democratic-Liberal)
Assisting in
bribery
December 24, 1948
OTAKI Kiyoshi
(New Liberal)
Assisting in
(arrested)
bribery
December 24, 1948
UMEBAYASHI Tokio
(Democratic-Liberal)
Bribery
(arrested)
2. COAL MINE CONTROL BILL CASE
December 22, 1948
TANAKA Kakuei
(Democratic-Iiberal)
Accepting bribes
December 24, 1948
TAKEDA Giichi
(Democratic)
Accepting bribes
(arrested)
December 24, 1948
NAGAO Tatsuo
(Democratic-Liberal)
Bribery
(arrested)
December 24, 1948
TANAKA Manitsu
(Democratic-Liberal)
Accepting bribes
(arrested)
December 24, 1948
FUKATSU Tamaichiro (Democratic-Liberal)
Accepting bribes
(arrested)
December 24, 1948
AZUMA Shunei
(Democratic-Liberal)
Accepting bribes
(arrested)
3. OTHER CASES
RESTRICTED

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.99)
Sub-enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948.
-2-
Date of Indict-
ment or Arrest
Name
Party
Charge
(House of Representative)
3. OTHER CASES
November 5, 1947
KAWAMURA Zenhachiro (Democratic-Liberal) Violation of Co
modity Control
January 17, 1948
HONDO Tsunematsu
(Social Renovation)
Embezzlement;Viol
tion of Commodity
Control Law
January 17, 1948
HARA Susumu
(Democratic)
Fraud - found not
guilty.
March 10, 1948
YAMAMOTO Koichi
(Social Democratic)
Violation of
Special Material
Regulation Law
March 29, 1948
ROKI Seizaimon
(Democrat)
Violation of Food
Control Law
May 2, 1948
ISOZAKI Teizo
(Democratic Liberal)
Violation of Pur
Ordinance; Perjui
May 2, 1948
KAWANO Ichiro
(Former Liberal)
Violation of Pur
Ordinance; Perjura
May 2, 1948
MIURA Toranosuke
(Democratic Liberal)
Violation of Purge
Ordinance; Perjury
May 2, 1948
KIMURA Kohei
(Democratic Liberal)
Violation of Purge
Ordinance; Perjury
July 13, 1948
NISHIMURA Eiichi
(Social Democratic)
Violation of Purgo
Ordinance; Perjury
July 18, 1948
NISHIO Suehiro
(Social Democratic)
Violation of Purgo
Ordinance; Perjury
July 24, 1948
IIMURA Izumi
(Liberal)
Fraud
August 6, 1948
NATSUBORI Genzaburo (Democratic Liberal)
Violation of Com-
modity Control La
October 18, 1948
AOYAGI Kaichi
(Democratic Liberal)
Violation of Law
Prohibiting Carry
ing of Arms.
October 21, 1948
OGASAWARA Yasomi
(Democratic Liberal)
Violation of Labe
Union Law, Artiel
No. 11
November 26,
RESTRICTED

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
Sub-enclosure to Tokyo's
Despatch No. 820,
December 31, 1948.
-3-
Date of Indict-
ment or Arrest
Name
Party
Charge
(House of Renresentatives)
(3. Other Cases)
November 26, 1948
NACA: Kazuo
(Social Democratic)
Accenting bribes
House of Courcilors
October 7, 194.7
FUJII Heigo
(Ryokufukai)
Violation of Law
Concerning Closed
Organizations
April 22, 1947
050:1 kenji
(Democratic Iiberal)
Embezzlement;Larcem
June 18, 1948
ASaI Ichiro
(Democrat)
Fraud - found not
puilty
October 13, 1918
FORITA Toyohisa
(Democratic Liberal)
Embezzlement Conmect
nected with Official
Business.
November 22, 1948
TAYAYA Yoshiaki
(Democratic liheral)
Embezzlement Con-
nected with Official
Business.

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.95)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMIDRICA
Office of the United States
REC
Political Adviser for Japan
JULY 
0.9
Tokyo, June 24, 1949.
ACT
No. 413
FE
RESTRICTED
NA
Lotion Assigned to
hotion Taken e acTim
Subject: Supreme Court Judgnent in the NISHIO Case.
Date of Agtion
Aotion Orfice Syubol.NA
The Honorable
 of ofor
The Secretary of State
894.01/6-2449
Direation to Do/R -file
Nashington.
Sir
1 have the honor to refer to this Mission's despatch no. 820
of December 31, 1948, reporting on scandals in the Japanese Govern-
11
ment and to enTose in that connection an English translation of
the judgment of the Supreme Court of Japan of June 1, 1949, in the
21
se of NISHio Suehiro. Als enclosed is a mimeographed copy of
the judgment in Japanese.
As stated in the despatch wxder reference, Nishio was tried
before the Tokyo listrict Ccurt on charges of perjury before a
Diet committ ee and of violation of a Cabinet Ordinance requiring
the registration of contributions to political parties. Nishio
was acquitted by the Di strict Court and this sentence was upheld
upon appeal to the Tokyo High Court. The Government appealed the
case to the Suprene Court which affirmed the sentence.
The Supreme Court held (1) that so long as Nishio understood
the donat ion to be one to him personally and not to the party,
there was no violat jon of the Cabinet Ordinance, even if the donors
considered the gift to be to the party, and (2) that the original
court's finding that donations made by a group of contractors to
Nishio was a cont ribution to Nishio personally rather than to the
Social Democ ratic Party of which he was a leading member, was a
finding of fact properly to te made by the lower court and one
that was not cont rary to the evidence submitted. The crux of
Nishio's defense was that, since the contractors' contribution
had been made with the express understanding that it would not be
used to assist the leftists within the Social Democratic Party, the
894.
JUL 2 9.1949
FILED
contribution
894
RLSTRICTED
ACTION COPY
RETURN TO DC/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKEN

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 413,
Juno 24, 1949.
-2-
contribution was not a contribution to the party within the meaning
of the applicable Cabinet Ordinarce. The Court upheld this con-
tention. It was al so held that the perjury charge was not justiciable
by the judiciary since no cherge had, as required by law, been pre-
ferred by the Diet committ ee before which the alleged perjury took
place.
The judgaent was notable for a strong and cogent dissent by
Judges MANO airl IWAMAT'SU who on the basis of broad political reason-
ing considered that the lower court had not given due weight to
evicence and logical deductions tending to show that the contribution
was in reality made to the party rather than to Nishio personally.
The dissent argued that legally a gift subject to a condition was
still a valid gift, that in fact there was considerable evidence here
to show that the gift was actually made to the party and not to the
individual. and that Nishio'a evidence did not rebut the presunption
that this was a donation to the party.
Although t he Supreme Court's decision was confined to the facts
of this case, it is anticipated that the judgment will have consider
able bearing on the trials now taking place of Nishio, former Prime
finist er ASHIDA, and others in connection with the Showa Denko case.
The legal test applied by the Supreme Court appears, by emphasizing
the understanding of the recipient and by stressing minor conditions,
to establish a raiher relaxed standard for determining whether a con-
tribution is made to a political party or to an individual. The
conclusion is inescapable that the dissenting judges, by applying a
common-sense standard to political contributions, have proposed a
more realistic criterion.
Respectfully yours,
Cloyce K. Huston
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
1。
English translation of
Judgment of Supreme Court
in NISHIC Case. June 1, 1949.
20
Japanese text of same (one
copy).
350
RSFinn:hh
Parchment mat to Department.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.86)
brclosure No. 1. to Despatch No.
413 dated June 24, 1949, from the
Unitel States Political Adviser
Cor Japan, Tokyo, subject: "Supreme
Court Judgment in the NISHio Case".
JUDGI E TH SUTRNVE COURT
"Re" No. 195, 1940
viseto suhipy fafty-mi s yeurs cid, former member of
the    .
Prma l  Sumiemane I ehome, Sumiyoshi
 -b Mt, Mege K, T.
the preme urt rendere the rellowing judgmeit on
the ap. Filed by ale Mireamay Shief Proourately Pokyo
High Pre rat rst Crflce, against the decision rendered
Ly the Teae Hrh So n November 2y, 1948, en the
-harge aguinst the sreve haned individual ccncernile
wclatretr :f Jattle. Cralmance Ne. J28 sf 1947 ana of
ne Law durelg Ca  and festlmuny er a withess in the
L=1
Ti per. ci the riglmai decisien against the
se ting vieiatlou or the Law Governing Cath
and Te   cs a litmess in the Diet is reversedy and
tue lat tu et  this ecult is hereby quashed.
The apreal agalsst the remaicing part is dismissed.
e    the r by the
  ans  he fact f this sase are that the
  e  ic f o,  to the Japan
ia Den . Party, cut that he fai led te submit
is  a Cabllet Orilnance, and that as a
ettee meeting ie the Dist un this case
 s  ri tnny to the effeet that this donation
a  m  te party tut  himself as an individual.
obai  large tne alcused stated in exculpation that
he   vas  doate te the Japan Social
Dencciavi. rar j cut to lmmself individually as the
secretaiy  era and a leader of the party.
lhe lgina.. juagment. it is argued, first classi-
e  ale aipal peints at issue inte two
categerles, nameiy, (i) the intention of the contractors
wh made the sald donation, and (2) the understanding
of the

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.88)
Enclcsure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despaten 3,
Jne 24. 194
-2-
of he accused vhe veceived the donation. There two
tutegcrie. urs lur ther divided into details, easn
ef wh  lssed un the tasis of a large volume
f ridet. a s lained by the precurator, it
aurssible  sider the dohati on as one made
t th: Ierty. The aesused, however, pleads that it
  re grize tat the donation was made to
 l us a leader, that in the light of the
iite t  the coatractors and the understandi ng of
the  as aie recoghized above, the 500,0co was
   erted y the accused as an inf en-
ai   he rightists of the Japan Social
weet ei: rarly fer tne pur pose of assisting the
sounr u pmelt f uhe Social Demoerats and exoluding
the st- aileu efvists, shat the donation was made and
arted   viamaliy fur use at the sele discretion
 th  , and tht aerdingly, the donatien is
  the Gabine Ordinance conceraing
Finan a Ai  a Pslitical Party, and therefore the
   d the ased t guilty and
Cat Craare Ne. s28 f 1947 prvides:
The s. try Seneray r cther leader
.cie herete, of a pelitical party
 Imeters f the Diet is required
 h January 15,1948, 
  i Te, Du, er Ken of
m   c the principal office
 he aly io iccated ef the amount of
 plitical party during 194
osing t tr. ls the repert the names and
ss iuential financial supporters.....
al   utit he report prescribed in the
 relesraph, or a false repert, is
wleee y lap risc ment wi th or wi chout
l.a . fr a period net exceeding ten years."
 isresrited i this Ordinance that, of
 taoming under the provisions of
Paraerap   ti le b. of Imperial Ordinance No. 101,
ey F.ordition of Formaticn of Political Parties,
aso e.ati-g aid Organizaticns," orly political
ra:ties issing of members of the Diet are required
to suptit a special report on donations made to the
polllleal parly concerned during 1947. Therefore, the
obligation

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatch No.
413, June 24, 1949.
-3-
obligation to submit the report prescribed by the
Cabinet Ordinance exists only in cases where financial
aid is rendered to a political party, in other words
only in cases where a political party has a right to
use, derive benefit from, or dispose of such financial
assistance. It is very evident, in the light of the
speeific provision of the Ordinance stating "to the
political party" and from the spirit of the legislaticn,
especialiy Article 5 of the Imperial Ordinance
frenibiting formation of certain organizations and
making public the structure cf such organizations, that
sases are exempted where such right merely belongs to
an individual member of a political party. Therefore,
tne finding of the originai judgment concerning this
point is prcper, and the views insisted upon in point
5 of the (appellant's) arguments and the arguments
based on such views are unacceptable. Therefore, even
assuming, for instance, that the accused falls under
the term, "leader", pre iribed in the Cabinet Ordinance,
viclation of the otliga ion to submit a report required
by the Ordinance require that he understood in his
subjective recognition that the financial assistance
was made to the political party.
However, the finding of the original judgment
concerning the subjective recognition of the accused
rejected, as stated before, the arguments of the
procurater, and accepted as true the accused's plea
and depositions at the criginal trial concerning
his understanding of the receipt of the donation in
question, as is shown by the conclusions indicated in
the original judgment. That the original judgment has
not from the evidence found facts which would consti-
tute a crime is clear from the finding of the original
court, especially the fact that the original judgment
specifically quoted as evidence the accused's statement
at the criginal trial concerning this point. It is
of course within the discretion of the original court
to decide whether or not such a statement by the
accused is to be accepted. Therefore, the arguments
of the appellant in this respect are nothing but
criticism of the discretion of the original court, and
cannot be accepted.
As long as the accused in his subjective recogniti...,
considers the donation as made to an individual but not
to the party, there is no violation of the Cabinet
Ordinance, even supposing that the donors had meant the
donation to the party. Therefore, it is clear that each
of the

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No.. 1 to
Tokyo's Despatcn No.
413, June 24, 1949.
-4
of the remaining arguments of the appellant does not
in any way affect the original decision, and cannot
be accepted.
Hewever, invesligation mads under authority vested
in paragraph 2, Article 434, old Code of Criminal Pro-
cedure reveals that the Law Governing Oath and
Testimony of a Witness at the Diet (Law No. 225 of 1947),
in the light of circunstances of the enactment thereof,
was enactea to prescribe procedures within the Diet
to meet requirenents of investigations by each house
of the Diet concerning naticnal administration.
Because such special provisions as the text of Article
8 and a provise thereof concerning indictment of
perjury in the Diet were laid down, it is proper to
Interpret that internal affairs within the Diet should
be aispesed of by the Diet within its own self-govern-
ing power, and that the charge provided for in the.
said artiele is essential to a public action regarding
the ofiense. Since it is evident, however, that no
charge of perjury was made ty the House of Representa-
tives or the committee indicated in the decision, a
publie action cn this charge is improper. The original
court therefore violated the law by hearing the public
action, carrying out a substantial trial, and acquitting
the ace used. The appeal to the Supreme Court on this
point is veascnable, and he original decision must be
reversed.
Acecluingly the decision is given in accordance
vith the provisions f Articles 447, 455, and paragraph
6 of Articie 364 . he cld Cede of Criminal Procedure
corcerning the above part, and in accordance with
Article 44o uf the suid code concerning the remaining
part.
The above is the unanimous opinion of all judges
exeepting Judges MaNo Tsuyoshi and IWaMaTSU Saburo.
Dissenting Ouinicn of Judges Nano and Iwamatsu
He believe that the criginal judgment should be
reversed fur the following reasons:
The criginai ccurt made a finding based on the
evidence that the accused u or about April 11, 1947,
received 50c,000 from 1IDa Seita, Managing Dire :tor
of the

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.91)
Euclosure No. 
Tokyc's Delaton
413, 019 24, 1949.
-5-
of the Railway Industry Co., Ltd., out of the total
of 3, Soc, cuo jointly ccllectel by Takenaka Engineering
Co., Ltd. and uver ten other contractors belonging to
the Japan Senstructien Industry Asseciation for the
purpose ot assistine the Liberal Party, Democratie
Fur ty, unu the Social Demceratie Party.
(A) The originai judgment then determined the
get fur mhich the contraeters larned a joint
raising ef the fund ana the nderstanding en which
they deliv ed the yoc, cco t the accused. As to the
tateutlen :f the contracters lt was found:
"fhe ¥5o0,00 was delivered to the accused,
whe was then the Seeretary General cf the
Japan Social Demecrats and who was censidered
a representative or the party, by the
Takenaka Lngineering Jo., Ltd. and other
contracters vho, on the occasion of the general
eleition of the House of Reyresentatives on
April 25, 1947, jointly coliected a total of
3,Soo,Coo as finansial aid for election
campaigi funds of three political arties -
the ther I ressives, the Liberals, and the
oeial Demeerats, for the purpose of donating
,peo,ose each to the Progressives and the
Literus. u  c,  he Secial Demoerats.
It wuld seem possibie te penelude that the
dcia in cf i,soo, Joo each was made to the
Prearessives and the Liberals through the
iaterpediary, respectively, cf CHIsAkI Usabure
ara CNo Lantosu, then Secrettry Jeneral, as
representatives ef the pelitical parties, and
that in liae mamier a dexatien was made to the
accused."
Ihe eriginai judgment gave as evidence therefor the
fulcwing
(i) Deposilien ef Taklllala Toemen, witness in the
cliglial trial, ln the records ef third public hearing
in r. criginal trial.
(2) Depositien of IIDA Seita, witness in the
criglmal rial, in the recerds of third public hearing
in he ciiginal trial.
(3) Interrcgation of FukaI Akira by procurators.
(4) InterrPgation

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.84)
brelosue
P
(4) Interr satien of HonDa Heboru by procurators.
(2) the criginel sumgcene, after "studyirg the
facts tn aecail", furtler states as follows:
"The intentien f une sentractors in handing
o,oo to tne astuses is dlfferent from
the  . iveg  ,
each ts Ono sf the Libereis and CfIsakI of the
Progiessives, d cn he assamptisa that
treir object was to assist caly the rightists
of the Soclai Dencciats she donasien Was not
meant cfficially fr te Soclal Demecrats. e
donatlcn was ihcended fer the aecused who was
a powerfui ana represeltative leader of the
rightists ad men Secretary General, for
distriluvisa at hls discseslen umeng the
Pighists fer cie xuens  her
pelitical funds. lt is slliciently recog-
huced that the duratlen was not intended
ful she Social Deasclats includilg its
deltiste."
The riglal Jetnt made the at ve finding and
bve as evle ellr the rltlng
     t  uli n
i te riai la.
(a) Depesrtlre  the rras sr pullie Lealings
ci easn  he vi messes at t criglr trial.
Asalhha Inejirc, Monllo Iotsue, suzull Yesnlc,
Pakika Teemen, S  lso lasa, Sdaaa Lichlnari,
M Msy F N, So Kae, N H,
and Tall Rajime.
(3) Les er entitled "heasons fer Supperting Each
1.
How the su-salled "lnflucntial firanclal aid to a
pelititui .arsy", Prestribed . Jatinet Ordinance No. 328
of ist7, means gsluraily and opularly donatlons er
contributiens tt a pelitical party cr partles.
(X) Such financial ald so a pelitical party is mace
in som cases wihout any strings attached, or made
with some strings or desires attached. It is beyond
doubt from a sound commen-sense point of view that both
of these

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.87)
2：
-7
of these cases seme nder the financial aid to a
poli ical  arty Ter example, any donation to a
subecl, m  tb sondl liume or desire attacned for
Purchals f focd fer mouvishing pupils lacking meals
i itr purehase I a mlertscepe, is intended for
tha: h a. Or ary donatlon to an asylum for the
asl mtn a  unat litn r desire attached fer the
pe  ae wosn sver seventy years old is a
a  Te asla Simlarly a dona ion to a
tertul. vllcical party vitn a ccndition cr desire
ateached .f sampciga funus sf canlldates of less
than rerty yeans ld er for cons truction of new
neaduuartsrs, r a tration wi th a condition or
desire attacheu fer contributing eleetlon funds of
meabers exeepting a certain sectien ef a political
arty must be said t be a donation in each case
to a poli ical arty. sucn conditions pr desires,
depending en colerets cases, may vary in degrce of
lenieney er strictness. In a strict case, whenever
a pulitical arty ralls ts live up to the conditions
vpasneu  tinancsae sid, the sup. crters may be
alle ts aetmald legal fulfillment sf such conditicns,
I ay rethe the iit and claim a return of the
dunati n. In a ianient case a ccndition or a desire
ay le ften ersly treated as a matter of moral
bliseoln sitheut any binding legal effect.
H  y cige  ree. In the Greek
 uage dce" me eole (e vizcns), while
"sracy" els seveinment (rule). Aacng she Greeks,
i. h.. the iuea cf usveracy priginated, sports
vaylsi) stnstlcuted a real foundation for education.
Simliariy i. ne Lnitcd States, vhich is a typical
demceratis seultry, ail sorts sf sperts are widely
wi ee. The Toundaicr. pen whi ch the United States
las been astatli hed is, ihueeu, demoeracy and
pr xansir, wni. i tre last analysis are based
 e splri  ruir play
it is beyerd uoutt that by means of public notice
of i ei ing puvlieity to (submisslon of reports and
puslle inspestien) any influence of material power on
the feimaticn cf yclitical ideas in pelitical parties,
the pirit ei uhe previslons ef the foregoing Cabinet
Ureinance is, in the same mammer, to realize the spirit
of fair lay based . justice, fairness, soundness
and vitality f severnment subject to the free criti-
cism and judgment of peeple, fer the purpose of
preventlng cerruption and degeneration of politics due
=ecret

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.88)
3n
一
to seeret an bellint-she-curtain deals of governuent.
In other weres, this law has she high aim of regulating
relltical tms fr the  operation and develepment
of demeeratie gevernment, und is a link in a chain of
importns previsicas guaranteeing and endorsing
dencerasie geverment undsr the cons titution.  If a
am iel ts a pelr cieal arty with a condition or
desire attcchea tnereto is to be interpreted as not
mar tnting finanelai aid to that party, the aim of
he  insI  legcing Cabinet Ordinance y
 ai lea trugh utta.t of some condi ion
ur tesire to sush a donatien. Such reasonablenese
and absuruity are ageins. the spirit el fair play, and
ru  titer to the alms ef the law for preventing
serruptier or party peli sics. Such cannot by any means
be elerated.
(Y) Tiewed freu another angle, financial aid to
a relivica- pariy is semetimes made directly in a
simple vanme.  muy be given in the legal form of a
trulleeshiry r wome other simllar form, with the
prlitical party smccrned as a beneficiary, and its
executive metbers or other persons as srustees. They,
in toeordance with the previsions of the trusteeship,
are argea i th the management and disposal of the
r perty under trust. Each of such cases comes under
tie  a ry  frmuacla assistance to a political
u  tre e trese methods also a pelitical
pas v ler ve e Lerefit ef sufricient and substantial
Il.ti lal vid. Il sael aia is not consldered finuncial
aid,  viis 1 he foregoing Cabinet Ordinance
may  easily svads l reans of these processes,
liilglrs  ut a :souit contrary to the spirit of fair
y a e if the law.
L us re  the criginal judgment again. Did
it -ve luily ons lois pecognition to the aforesaid
Peilt (X) ad (i)? Mas such recognition fully
ls i the languuge of the judgment? As to these
peiits we cltertaln grave doubts, and we cannot help
Fiist f ail, une uriginai judgment at once con-
ludeu ly nferece that the  tion had not been
offisially made  tne Secial Demcdrats", since "the
contra sers' lilteltlc. to deliver the sum of the
c, in uestien to the accused....was to support
only ti.e right ving f ne Social Democrats". From
this deduction

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.88)
一江
this deduetin  tuge inle ence, the original
Juagnel scluded ths "it is sufficient to determine
Lat the matlon wa. nes intended for the Social
Semerrats  ludims he Lertists". However, to infer
tr t tly trem the cshclusler. that "the donation had
the I  f asistims nly the rightists of the
Sal rats", tt he assistance of the Social
enrat: wa mt utesed is an arbirary conclusion.
Hep i  ptly laes the ampropriety or the
   d in (x) abeve, even supposing
 ma In a made with a condition or desire
tha!  rintists be aseisted", the donation may
 stance to the Social Democrats.
as s is stu e i (Y) above, even supposing that
the  i w mae to the accused, who was then
Te Seerctary General of the Social Democrats, in the
f: sis lis e ightists at the discretion of
the aecsed, vitn a ndition or desire for realizing
the .  se if "assisting only the rightists", the
Seulai Lcmssrnts miglt have fully enjoyed the
sbeta cial berefir f che financial aid. Therefore,
the ituatio.. exists that this donation may be con-
side .d a assistance to the Social Democrats.
Further, let  study the evidence referred to
in the original judgment. All of the evidence pre-
sat ia  ints i) tarougn (5), (Translator's note-
arrarntiy epesiciens in the original testimony),
us the osis Ter lceding thet "it appears possible
to recegrize that as regards the Social Demecrats
alns, he Wse,t was daiivered to the accused, then
Searstary Jeneral of le party, as a representative of
 trty", preves that the donation was made to the
Scie Delrats a enditionally and without any desire
attalea thre te. Mext, all the evidence presented
i: p lave (l) trrough (4) as the basis for finding (D)
abtve is  thirs but proof that there existed wi thin
e S ciai Demoerats rivalry Lecween the leftists and
 i. T under (5) deposed:
"It  rtendel to exelude the leftists,
s.clally hee affilialed with the
Soiurists, umcrg the Secial Demecrats";
Lhe lmialien was made to the Social
Lerats exeluaig the heds (namely,
cctanist sympathizers)";
"I.t

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.95)
Baclosure Ne, 
Toke's
473
-10-
"I thought NIslio was mest powerful in the
Sccial Lemoerats, and the leftists were a
very snall mincrity including some Reds";
"The Soc,Coo was donated to assist election
funus of the Social Democrats for use of
the party";
"I left to the discretien cf NISHIO the
ma'ter of how this money would be used for
the activities of the Social Democrats";
"I said that cur only desire was that this
money not be handed to communist sympathizers."
ShILIZU under (6) deposed:
"It was cur intention to assist the Social
Dencerats exeluding Red elements";
"Thi: donation of ¥500,000 was made ostensibly
to the Seeial Democrats excluding the Reds
but actually it was intended for the NIshIo
factich, whicl. was the axis of the party.
The donation was after all intended for the
party."
sth.ta under (7) deposed as follows concerning
the donation te political parties:
"It vas desided to make a don vi.: to the
Jucial Demecrass also."
I 1Wallaua under (8) deposed:
"The reason for assis ting each party....was to
supt crt the Secial Democrats excluding the
Reds";
"The purpose of the v500,000 was that we
theught that, if delivered to NIshIo, the
maney would be delivered to those other
tran the heds; therefore after al
doratien vas ade to the Social Democrats
excluding tie Reds."
according to pcints (5) through (8), although it
can be concluded that the financial aid was made to the
Social Democrat

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.97)
5
-11-
Social Jenserats exeluding Reds with a condition
or desire attached thereto that this money not be
deliveren to tie neds, yet it is impossible to
recegnize tet the aid vas not given to the Social
Demeerats. Hovever, the conclusion in the original
judgment to the effect that "the above was not
intend:i as a formal donation to the Social Democratic
Ferty itself" is improper reasoning in that it is
due o  asty conclusion that only an unconditional
donaticn, vithout any desire attached thereto, to
the Sociai Demecrats was a donation to the said
party,  that accordingly the donation with a
conditicn r desire attached thereto mentioned in
the foreg ing (1) was not one to the party. Also
the crigi al judgment made a hasty conclusion that
only a de lation made direct to the Social Democrats
was one s the party. Accordingly, the original
judgment must be said to have been based on improper
reasoning in arriving at the hasty conclusion that
financial aid to the party in the legal or other
similar ferm, mentioned in (Y) above, was not aid
to the arty. Mcrecver, the evidence presented in
(1) through (5) above mentioned is in each case
sufficient to enalle the conclusion that the donation
was made to t.e Sccial Democrats without a condition
or desire attacied thereto. The original judgment
even eoneluled fron this evidence that such a con-
clusion Was once possible. Therefore, as long as the
aid to the arty is ackmowledged as is stated in (X)
and (Y) aleve, definite evidence is necessary in order
to deterrine that the donation in question was made to
the accisca as an individual. It has been stated in
the icr that the evidence (1) through ) (B)
menticned above is not worthy for this purpose.
Fron she alove statement it is believed that
existence of lllegality of reasoning in the original
decision has been demonstated. Therefore, the appeal
to the Suyreme Court being after all well-founded, the
original judgment should be reversed and sent back.
(also, the riinal judgment concluded that the
accused  derstecd that the donation was not made to
the ar y but to himself as an individual. It is clear
th:t this conelusion also was made on the premise
and basis f the incorrect reasoning of the original
court as is stated alove. Therefore, it is clear that

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclesure Hes i
Tol yoe Lespat .
413. 2 24, 1049.
-12-
this conclusion is incorrect. As regards the under-
standing of the accused, re-examination is also
necessary for the above reasons for the purpose of
reaching a conclusion.)
Lastly, we agree with the majority opinion
concerning the point that the perjury in question
has the nuture of an offense prosecutable on
accusation.
Pul lic Procurators MIYAKOTO Masuzo and IDEIRI
Yoshio participated in the appeal.
Tokyo, June 1, 1949
Grand Bonch, Supreme Court:
Presiding Judge: Judge TSUKAZAKI Naoyoshi
Judge HaSEGAWA Taichiro
Judge SAWADA Takejiro
Judge SHIMOYANA Seiichi
Judge INOUYE Noboru
Judge KURIYAMA Shigeru
Judge MANO Tsuyoshi
Judge KOTaNI Katsushige
Judge SHIMA Tamotsu
Judge SAITO Yusuke
Judge FUJITA Hachiro
Judge IWAMATSU Saburo
Judge KAWAMURA Mataske
Translated by:
MaTSUO Chuhei,
Interpreter-Translator

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclovure No. 2 to Tokyo's Despatch
No. 413 dateå June 24, 1949, from
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, subject:"Supreme Court
Judgment in the NIsHIO Case".
D-413 Johy ik

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.80)
3
月
和二年一九一
右の者に對する昭一
原決中
九
住居
日
東京仙判所
主
5上
院に
東京都日編區三田二五九
大收市任育城義江中
4
à
ひ甲立かあつた
文
r
二年
设
而分重破梁
L
直冊及
π
判決に
八姚
對
L
C
西
回
汉
u
東京高檢發
次七決
44
当
末
五九年
年
3
A

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.84)
3
而方面の各面に
至
上
04
は
3
對
の
は
へ
3
附
4
に
V2
右
は
欲
会
と
公
以
る
王
石
金
に
L
上
と
安
あ
五
て
と
附
な
3
十
け
L
で
做
万
3
3
て
あ
者
點
苦
日
甜
L
3
vc
人
は
と
多
た
對
日
と
S
へ
此
6
L
人
本
L
5
て
0
に
定
破
所
c
社
て
對
で
証
對
会
5
へ
丁
城
问
A
及
3
3
2
3
に
政
舒
上
X
と
對
L
今川
本
51r
う
示
<
附
た
對
FF
で
℃
1
上
3
と
定
五
5
て
93
3
2
5
6
る
p洲
石府附
3
3
寄
万
と
で
出
T
で
5
ve
2
日
1
<
n
7
本
3
と
自
H
0
5
L
已
つ
1件
iH
开
侧
vc
金五
当
iC
e
15
L

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.77)
0
の規定に酸当す
1
下の役父は宗頭に
C
ける
有丁る政四碑長七
L
不件
ため
に對して
十万
3
C
そ
て
出所
L
政令に她以る
た
て
4
日
昭和二二年政令第一
2
と
4
社会城山右派
L
に
()
る幽休中特に
L
そ
3
を
地
DÊ
同左派
せ
の
る月力
4
一
の
2
て
3
他
は
を
國会故日た
二
財政四拔助一中
孔
三
に
二
L
L
と
年
の
の
4
4
月
0)
王幹者以
對十百財政的按助國言
て
à
L
なけ
日
一國
和
π
3
の
C
作所及正氏名
は
に
和
C
5
4
年
と授受
にする
12
o
一
前
O
4

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.80)
は
に對十
務游反
が
3
C
の
に限り存在する
の使用若しくは收益又は
は財政的拨助か当義政藏之對寸る幽合侯國
き別の屈日ねとと定めてい
明和二二年中今氏到十
然る
れ
內莽子公開丁
5
n
と
場合
に
如
た
に
业
10
3
3
回
1A
趣
C
4、
に
政
C
包含し
0
C
C
3
彼告人
で
JL
由
6
あ
た
と
立
な
0
る
の
刚從とす
原
法
S
で
0
王幹者之
判洪
3
C
あ
と
C
と
つ
分
0
で
て
的
5
說示
L
助令就
所r
5
L
当
は
の
為十仙利か当該故然之帰國十る
て
は
正
て
中
傳成良個
と
S
3
当
回弟五候亦剛休の結成子禁止し
3
业
T
た
お
上
C
1A
乙
2
L
に
と
C
右政合の規定の
人
7、
て
5
のみに帰する
n
財政的授助亦殺政
孔故
n]
第五號
されけ
政
の
C
財政的授助
のし
明
前
S
文四
に
場合
の
二

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.81)
S
網
の
て
に
て
審公判に
ごとく
3
個
t
で
七
C
5
4
人
L
7
け
n
至原判決示
0
て
6
3
る
中
余
で
封
及
と
原刊
上
西
此
S
n
あ5
游
つ
3
C
9
L
π
被
S
四
引1
が
定
た
3
王張
e
と
告
0
U
仔
供
A1
特
L
4
L
仕
所r
π
L
C
π
を排斥して微出入
て
n
の
な
を
て
让
4
必
奇附金の受而之
4
と
は結局
S
S
2
及ひこ
と
3
と
℃
本
3
的
C
L
2
第
1件
以
原
3
て
S
三
政命違反
上
と
に
VC
ω
VC
否
H
と
L
5
と
L
口
<
つ
の
て
H
C
11
月
E
0
5)
さ
不
ZL
ず
L
成
は
7
3
C
た
7
F1
5
原判決說示の
とな
石
3
1.
5
32
3
上
原
1
L
L
0)

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.81)
7
免
S
て
0
法街
和
上
れ
分
理
0
3
取
規
定
つ
vÉ
と
0
定
世
は
て
行
明
然
を
5
年
原
0
十
S
て
5
10
殷
n
七
被
C
け
e
た
决
小
告
本
C
4
π
告
立
0
件
へ
14
件
趣
院
6
右
上
を
3
内
証
つ
五號
C
分
は
5
e
光
に
と
C
て
C
に
つ
L
つ
発
n
特
貌
照
院に
對
S
た
S
を
rc
C
L
て
原判
に
て
起
土
3
は
院
す
各
け
项
公
理
决
衆
條
内
第
3
3
訴
1H
由
は
る
酸
14
八
4
院
刑
5
公
と
0
0
へ
S
受
訴
5
又
L
3
で
國
の
0
第
vC
で
は
は
た
は
文
あ
政
權
L
pQ
あ
3
及
3
5
和
5
示
0)
0
及
以
1.
上
2
と
x
11
41
解
3
证
に
til
う
0
言
2)
5
治
ご
食
pu
は
22
沿
と
院
の
3
五
破
2
11
V
必
131
C
C
と
特
项
T
1：
fr
と
L
别
上.
3
bA

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.75)
L
今簡至拔助十
竹中工粉店外十微
藥保式会肚學粉取綿伎做田清太加
一戒した厳見
Sま文の
第三六四
又
次
私は
裁判官此野紋
少数意見
右以殺判官此野殺
に
U
一イ一原判状
の
と
に
3
受
おり判決丁
3
L
H
破乘さ
回岩公三郎
0.)
的
00
2
4
の
て
と
藥者が
4
土木建築樂者办
れ
山岩公三郎
3
つ
る
0
余の
一本件金五十方國は竹甲工務店を
て
共向募金し
和
さ
0
0
VC
十
の
51
5
と信十
H
n
11
合右金三百五十万の
小
19
目
11
L
田然民王及日
!
た
i)
○て共同J金計
0
日
印殺告人亦鉄直工
四六條之從
0
6.1.2
本
企
と
川

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.82)
派
金百五十万四づ
件
三间
の
同
n
扎
日
端都
0
金
千
燕
c
そ
み
五十
L
の
公
0の
右
れ
目
用
子拔助
と
L
百
舒
を按助十る九め合計金三百
L
π
記
五
附
は当時
取
4
て
4
長
C
十
さ
書
は
e
で
万
5
は
る
つ
被
5
の
あ
目
各
以幹事長大野伴睦
2
を
告
に
2
あ
つ
を各手交し
的
金百
と
父付
入
iげ
地記
6
た被告
で
が
に
実
C
と
五十万
進步
目
L
交
を
S
鐵
的
付
仔
3
人竹
定
人
11
場合
L
細
0
で
を
た
あ
た
中
き
そ
の
C
十
一)
と
滕石爾門
る
の
と
つ
つ
五
由
を
た
上
代
[问]
を
十
4
そ
は
寸
う
我
で
万
vy
と
の
目
3
に
は地崎字一
R
办
田の大
0)
西
と
それ道の
n
会
を
H
二
5
口
3
目
社会之
燕
共
本
4
と
L
汇
回募金
11
日
一)
と
R
代表者と
7
れ
5
步
に金五
三太政黨の選
進步第及
日
右
L
本
は
た
十
L
自
川会
地
2
万
て
右
↑
そ
2
T

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.76)
また何
0
的按助
十三各支田
定して
一者でその代表的な韓部であ
で
して被告人の
あ
わ的け
6
一
和
回
0
に對し正式化奇剛
Jy
5
3
十
C
C
田金十二回
(1)
C
当
办
に
さ
助
11
2
()
C
机
1.1
2
石
13
C
と
と
公
111
さ
金
L
911
れ
n
百山合
72
0)
C
1
!!
17
11
4
111
f)
f
4

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.67)
又は微目人用という候件ないし指全つけて
2
3

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.82)
ん
秘
治
治
C
プ
の
で
の
ラ
そ
通
に
二市
と
0
あ
で
打
4
は
公
せ
思
あ
0
1
民
7
的
條
6
明
L
8
0
る
米
基
0
モ
の
件
C
め
老
0
て
4
思
7
間
2
正
6
成
L
rc
を
想
ラ
S
6
大
C
C
て
n
n
な
0
ラ
2
と
L
と
健全・明明すなわち
と
及
て
S
L
尧
L
布
と
け
に
て
て
0
て
上
十
配
C
は
起
取
は
交
つ
此
政
た
九
就
源
涉
て
分
7
0
*
治
は
わ
何
6
取
力
工
5
9
*
n
疑
引1
0
定
7
0
2
支
D
6
0
ラ
民
の
●
6
C
+
2
に
2
上
工
0
趣
7
過
H
vc
6
7
批
を
*
文
0
で
0
と
政
公
易
H
2
幼
C
7
と
の
y
近
C
り
力
7
政
2
e
精
ラ
代
如
と
治
公
旺
S
を
と
有
西
0
の
0
樣
盛
が
5
6
料
自
vC
は
味
2
2
敗
神
由
9
x
出
で
0
2
限
及
avic
海
で
落
現
vc
VC
L
1
2
2
7
3
技
0
老
9
S
D
が
は
0
止
世
政
5
米
國
4
人
そ
單
0
0
縱
政
0
2
3
家
民
K

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.85)
財政
3
分
者
さ
5
6
C
3
望
鮮
S
運
せ
れ
目
e
背
L
の
0
的
合
L
受
3
れ
で
反
0
3
法
め
託
あ
L
上
け
2
餐
尚
旗
助
3
者
合
つ
政
7
6
5
附
2
は
り
信
と
4
政
て
な
は
e
得
L
到
政
不
と
政
目
当
3
的
て
n
汇
医
治
合
的
0
到
許
理
5
記
C
定
を
0
3
そ
法
信
さ
3
と
つ
政
對
e
有
政
6
L
託
3
3
不
て
分
治
0
て
行
た
財
7
都
の
6
と
悲
政
政
合
規
舒
言
又
の
的
6
当
と
定
附
と
わ
は
定
7
援
0
は
は
は
规正
れ
6
ね
こ
的
勤
℃
6
5
元
は
n
石
盆
は
は
防
や
衔
政
の
0
と
者
止
だ
附
5
合
と
と
政
世
L
<
e
に
あ
民
5
0
は
0
似
に
政
L
23
に
人
4
8
踏
際
L
對
3
0
5
6
主
政
從
對
何
3
L
民
治
世
式
L
次
5
L
財
か
主
の
n
5
信
ve
法
7
5
2
政
3
政
利
托
範
9
0
の
的
C
治
江
政
用
财
父
vC
目
得
若
L
宜
的
2
件
助
L
C
4
の
C
4
A
で
れ
對
2
管
の
的
背
の
S
2
條
と
他
理
C
點
と
L
2
14
6
の
n
處
02
2
稀
と
2
2

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.86)
0
は
e
そ
2
で
15
S
4
に
C
L
ち
vc
SS
5
原
站
で
L
附
物
KC
2
0
心
分
原
3
江
は
判
つ
政
て
0
十
石
27
式
文
を
利
用
件
の
3
政
的
的
左
と
派
F
C
财
政
反
V
的
2
被
て
法
助
分
人
<
利
4
で
を
会
と
政
的
定
た

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.73)
の
十
人し人のの
S
在するなぜならは明にかいてべたごく派のみ
することはだしい断である。
てあつたこと」から即座に社会を授助する巡旨のものてかいと
1.
十
i
PS
く

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.81)
の
S
の希望と
して妥助
一五十万
左派江きわ
野に共產の
I
3
無條件・無希減て社会に封し寄附した
九社会えの狀金で
それが主軸で
た
决
i
が
C
L
L
な
L
と
按助于
と
て
6
九
は社会が選舉をするに
め
を
江谷共派
4
て
の
小
证
3
L
で
L
3
便
あ
な存在
て
x
う
3
S
3
3
と
3
あ
人
は
S
rc
つ
西尼
一西尾か社
9
の清水
当時西地
わけ
ぎな
0
e
由
つ
中
で
IN
so
L
は
S
の
あ
社会內比左右面派
た
L
1C
つ
五
と
と
2L.
五
て
π
0
小
に
旺会意內で一番有力者で
竹
う
h
赤がS
と
5
L
れ
: T
0)
てげて
3
一社会議の左派
の對立
12
S
20
1
石前
n
と
7
で
上
,11

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.76)
2
1
3
西
に對十
顺判決か
件な
いた社会に對す
は西尾に渡せは赤を除いた人に渡る
赤を除いた肚
3
て
0
は紙に對十
心
さ
L
し希
3
た
一石
る財敗的
0
ま
は單純に
江
る按助て
会ぶ死支按するとの味であ
前
る許明にあらず
仙会そ
つ
计
る欽金てあ
按助
て
B
は
る。の宮長は「各支役の
無條件
の
な
點
0
S
に對十
法律形態父はと
a
と
る」
と
て
に
の
迷
到
と
る援助にあ
L
供边
と
L
正式十曰ののでS
按助
九惟理上の法基く
で
L
つ
C
3
①
た
る
0)
と
5
0
C
は
出
1.
n
寸
A
f2
(1)
C
3
0
と
の
Y

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.83)
白で
して
3
法か存在する
前に地
個人心對す
に地べた
の
課定する
ないし因
違法にくも
0
上
あ
い原判決は破築宗戾さ
3
5
3
べた
一前指
に
S
の各正處
らその逆法な
る奇附と凶定する
に足る
う
な識に對する拨助
を定してい
とが論証さ
以上說明
0
で
OIなSしR
0
あ
で
3
L
と
と
3
3
n
た
L
り
C
は
3
C
π
と
が
π
6
わ
と
L
が
左
き
C
た
是
0
は
3
e
め
て
C
う
に
3
上
い
5
岡人にする附である
つ
n
な
C
て
！
4
9
S
3
る前越の推
A
5
8
お
九
と

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.85)
a
教蔵見と考え方る向じくする。
あ教に本伴罪が親告の性賀有するにいては多
ても前ばの推理ひ地に立つてらに再僧謝の上説定さるべきもので
檢聚官宮本增故同出射義夫關與
昭和二四年六月一日
最高裁判所大法处
裁判長裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
裁判官
島
真
是谷川
治
茂

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.70)
且且且且
器

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.94)
Action Assi
Act on Takén
TD CP
OF THE
b or 
Jrabol.
LobiJepaDon to DC/R 7
3XR$
Tokyo, July 26, 1949.
Trle
No. 489
INTORNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
RESTRICTED
AUG 26 1949
REC'D
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
AUG 22
Subject: (rganization and Functions of Ministry of International
ACTI
Trade and Industry.
XITP-
INFO
FR
DCR
The Honorable,
FE
The Secretary of State,
-2649
i-onc
Washington.
OLI
UID
Sir:
COL-one
TAN-one
I have the honor to report on the structure, functions, and
!TNES
operations of the Japanese Ministry of International Trade and
Industry as organized pursuant to the provisions of the Ministry
XR
of International Trade and Industry Establishment Law (Law no. Io
of 1949, promulgated on May 24, 1949), five copies of which are
enclosed.
894.002
The new organization, which went into effect on May 25, 1949,
eliminates the Board of Trade (Boeki-cho) by combining that agoney
with the old Ninistry of Commerce and Industry. It may be assmed
that the reform is intended to streamline Japanese axport controls
XR
and to promote export industries pursuant to the provisions of the
Nine Point Economic Stabilization Program tranmitted to the Jap-
be remembered, in part required the Japanese Government to "im-
prove the operation of foreign trade controls," while point 7 re-
XR
quired the Government to "improve the low effectiveness of the
presant allocation and rationing system, particularly to the end
of maximizing exports."
Chief Cabinet Secretary MASUDA Kanaahichi stated, whon the
894.60
bill for establishment of the Ministry was under discussion, that
the new organization would shift the Governmont's administrative
efforts from domestic to export production and bring all agengie
FILED
interested in foreign trade under centralised gontrol, and that it
could be expected to aid in the rationalisation of export indus-
tries. Additionally it may be noted that the Board of Trade had
come to typify inefficient bureaucracy in the minds of both Jap
FAP
anese and foreign merchants, and it may be inferred that the
Cabinet, from political motives as well as from its desire to
further economic recovery, hopes to accomplish much by the liqui-
dation of an unpopular agency. Because of t he rather cumbersome
organization set up under the new law, however, it is doubtful
whether the change will result in improvements upon the procedures
for which the Board of Trade was so severely oriticised.
ACTION COPY
RETURN ÀO DO/B PILES WITHN 14 DAYS, WITH A MOTATION OF AOTSON TAN
RESTRICTED

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.92)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 489,
July 26, 1949.
- 2-
The new organization roughly follows the functional organisation
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry; commodity sections of the
Board of Trade have been combined with similar sections of tho old
Ministryletric Communicat ons Bureau has been eliminated,
howver, an:  tin, of the old Electric Power Bureau and Min-
ing Bureau ave ar ely n transferred to the Resources Agonoy,
which 1s u der the Jire: rvision of the linister of Intormational
Trade and Ii Iistry: th ola  pal Bard has been incorporatod into the
Resources Arcty
furtlns!research and Statistic Bur
eau and the Living lecessities Bureau of the old Ministry have boen
split up amon va,  reaus in the new Ministry, while the respon-
rit fr over reparations, formerly charged to  
parate bureau. has been transferred to the International Trade and Pro-
motion Burou of the new Minstry.
inofr  n apamation of sinilar section of
the Foardrodeery Conmerce and Industry, the now
rganizt wouidpear a realining measure and  step fo
ward, the i t. t wever in pice of the General Affaire Bureau
of the Lstry of comr at ludustry. there are now three bureaus
v errfnctiot of the commodity bureu
maltes wte Certain of the los on
couragin: reatf  wi: e brought out in the analyai
below
SuyProper
In addit:
tretariat,the Ministry proper
is sut1wg ei ht lureaus: International Trade
(Tsusho xyou), Inter  're and Promotion (Tsusho Shinko
kyoku), Int rnational Ir d and Enterprise (Tsusho Kigyo-kyoku),
International Trade an: Sundre akka kyoku), International
Trade and Hach  (Tu a-ku). International Trade and
Chemicals (Iushe a  kyou). an: International Trade and Iron
and Steel (Fsusho fekko nyoku)
Fhe In errationa r eure u. the Internatronal Trade and Pro
motion bureau, 
I mal rade and Enterprise Bureau are
given broad er.  rmaining five bureaus are charged
with surervision v sperills catepr les of export industries.
There appears to u . very cluar cut line between the funotiono
of the fir:t twe burea  the reason for separating them i ob-
scure. The Intc natlon! raue and I'romotion Bureau is to take
charge of "affairs conceriitg promotion of international trade,"
whereas the : urcau of Int ratlunal rade is to supply information on
overseas markets, and to undertake "pronot ion, improvement, adjust-
ment, and coordination in the import of commodities." If a distino-
tion must be drawn between the two agencies, it would appear that
the Internitional Trase Bureau is a planning agency, with cortain
supervi sory powers over um rts. whereas the International Trade and
Promotion bureau sup rviaes exporta and exchange. Specifically, the
International Prade Lureau is clarged with the drafting and gono
coordination of trade policies, with matters concerning international
agreements, with the preparation of statistics and market information,
wdth
RESTRICTED

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.91)
Pko a De 
11
,with the pro-
111
"adjustment of
the Ministry
tries), and
'y not speci-
charge of
vision and
apparent
bureau);
1 liai son in
amodities
odan (Pub-
"promotion,
rol of the
uction of
(this func-
some of
tral Pur-
 for sale
overnment
n ex
n'ernational
istance in
pervi sion
ming the
nbroad
he pro-
manage
rvision
uction
affecting
 nally,
w1ld ap
the five
is
rent, and
the Mini
1affairs
ni.stry and
similar
on of fune-
ne which fol-
unclusion,
:fic classes
tbie for the
ses for the
ducts and raw
materials
RST

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 489,
July 26, 1949.
-4-
materials under their jurisdiction. Their powers are stated in
sufficiently zeneral tems t make it appear very likely that they
will be in constant  inflict with the Lureau of International Trade
and Enterprise and posiri win the Int ernational Trade Bureau and
the International Fraie : mtion bureau. A scramble for
bureaucratic enpire wia e  be in prospect.
Auxiliary Organry Proper: Local Branch Office
The followine i ry rgans are provided for under the recent
reorganization:is Inspectien liouse (Sen-i Seihin Kensajo),
with eight reglonal tre  f": ces: "Daily Necessities" Inapection
House (Nichiyohin Kenseo). . ffice: in Tokyo and Osaka; Machino
and Tool Inspection
iunsajo), with offices in Tokgo;
and a "Chemica!  us: (Shiyaku Kensajo), with
offices in Toiy ( L concerned primarily with
the testing of phart) The Minister is empowered
to establis local  of the auxiliary organs as neoded.
Certain deliberative or tr stidy of production and trado
problems are to be p abpt order.
The law provi
1or hstblishment of eight
local "Bureaus of Intera1 lal rad i Industry," with broad muper-
visory powers ver lx:luiing coal mining, whioh come
under the jurisdiction  es Ageney; see below). Local
Electric Power C y powers, are established 
auxdliary organ  .The Minister of International
Trade and Imiustr: n d to est atlish, if deemed desirable,
International Trade Cf:. Alcohol Gffices, Mine Offices, Eloctrio
Power Offices, and lron fiices of the rgional Bureaua of Inter-
national Trade and Imlustry
lerral Grrans
The following for  nal rgans (agencles independont of
the Ministry Proper but u lert supervision of the Ministor) ar
established by the s Agency (Shigen-cho), Agoney of
Industrial Science i  Loy (Koeyo Gijut su-cho), Patent Ageney
(Tokkyo-cho), and Aen r Smallor Eterprises (Chusho Kigyo-cho).
The Resources Agency l charged with administration of naffaire
concerning development d her neral resourcee, eleotrio
power resources, and min ufet, and other affairs regarding mine
and water power " In vies  I the br-alth of these powers, thore
would appear to be a ron fot er ial conflict between the Ro-
sources Agency and t he In na jonal. Trde and Enterprise Bureau,
which, as noted above, is to preside or "basic affairs concerning
development and inprev  comrerce, industry, and mining."
The Resources Agency 1 s divided into a Coal Control Bureau
(Sekitan Kanri-kyoku), C! rJuctin Buruau (Sekitan Seisan-
kyoku), a Mine Bureau (K an-k kn), a Mine Safety Bureau (Kosan Hoan-
kyoku), and an Electri Power Lureau (Denryoku-kyoku). The funotione
of the four bureaus are inicated by their names (the Coal Control
Bureau
RESTRICTED

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.93)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 489,
July 26, 1949.
-5-
Bureau is in general char ed with supervision over coal distribution;
the Mine Bureau is responsitle for mines other than those under the
jurisdiction of the Coal Pr du tin Bureau). All four axerci wdde
promotional and su rvisory functions.
The Resours as xl liary organs several deliber
tive councils as wIl  wo training institutes and an axamining
committee fr saf f ls. Local branch offices, to be kmown
as "Coal Furaus" (Skt  yoru), ar already in operation under
the provisions of aw . 219 of 1747 (Temporary State Control of
Coal Nining).
The Ageney of adustrial lente and echnology is a resoarch
organization establied  suant to he provisions of the Lw for
the Establisrment ny of Idustrial Science and Technology
(Law no. 207 of 48. pr m1gated n Au ust 1, 1949). The Agoney
for Smaller nt rp, i  wa a so set up by special law (Law
no. 83 of 1 8, pr uigit1  Ju!y 2, 1948), is a research and ad-
visory organ hurgel wnting "conditions which will assist
in the devel pment  fl operat pon of smaller enterprises."
The Pn A  itin  eyamining and registering p
tents and trade arhs,  rar ed with ncouraging inventions and
inventers.
In addition   tra" organs, the Ministry of
Internationalsder its jurisdiction the
Coal Distributi . P.r rl rarIon (Halseki Kodan), the Induotrial
Reconstruction Publi rportion (Sung Fukko Kodan), and the
Foreign Trade Pbii: C1.at ns (Boeki Kodan). Plans are now un-
derway for eliminat on y the enc of 1949 of the Coal Corporation
and the two Foreln Ti He rporat pon: (Tectiles Corporation and
Mineral oi Incstri rts roration). There ia apparontly
no plan under nslso i a ror ima  ate dissolution of the Indu
trial Recon t t ory n. Chief Cauinet Secretary Masuda
stated in  pres f n Jiy 25 that the Coal Corporation
could be abeli sted   n by aduninistrative order of the
Ministry of Intr  e a Inustry, should coal ubsidie
be required u on dis n f the orporation, however, the Diet
will of course have  uisilted.
Sl Posltlons
In addition to tne ove perial ureaus and agencies, the law
provides for certain  l p sitions, including a "Chief of Secre-
tariat" and a "General sul urvir f Int ernational Trade." The latter
functionary i to ie Vice-linister in managing the affaire of
the Ministry, exclusive  se uder the jurisdiction of the Extor-
nal Agencies. Japanese sources inilcate that, although the Goneral
Supervisor would ap: ear t) lhave substantially the functions and power
of the old Director of the hoard of Trade, his position is in faot an
anomalous holaover fro the ld organization, and his power are
largely nominal. It is reperted that the position was ostablished at
the special behest of the Prime Minister, and it may be noted that
the present incumbent, Mr. KODAkI Akira, was Yoahida's secrotery when
the latter was Japanese Ambassador to England.
One
RESTRICTED

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No, 489,
July 26, 1949.
-6-
One is led to speculate on the possibility that some of the
other obscurities in the new organization may also be explained by
the necessity of fin ling impurtant jobs for favored bureaucrats.
Ferson.nel Retrenchment
Under the provi slons f the so called Personnel Reduction Law
(Law for the Pixed mter f Personnel in the Administrative Organi-
zations) passd ty te Fifth ational Diet, personnel in the new
Mini stry, incl li yturnal Agencies, is to be reduced from 26,499
to 21,259,  rol at on of approximately 20 per cent. of the 5240
officials schelulad e io a tieir jobs, 146l will be retired, while
the remainder will be uneolitionally discharged. The retrenchment
has not yet one intc f, however.
'pen completion  ti rnciaent program, total personnel,
as planned, wa1 be uiritted as follows: Ministry proper, 13, 882;
Re sources A uncy, 2.73,  ny or ScLence and Technology, 4,365;
Patent A, S, nd l1 nterprises Agency, 94.
Comnents
Certaln appar nt iefort in tne organization of the Ministry
of Int ernati mal It  ndus ry ave been pointed out above.
They consist chieIy duplication of effort among an
unnecessarily  ureaus and agencies (and coinciden-
tally, of cour  unnecsarily large number of high-
ranking ofiiciin lition, it sh uld be noted that the Minis
try itself wuld ap car : ie in conflict with other agencies over
a certain ran of t f tion Phus, for instance, both the
Ministry of Interationi Prale and In lustry and the Foreign Ex-
change Cont rol Con ssi (an independent agency directly responsible
to the Prime Minister) to have similar powers over foreign ex-
change. In view of tie fs: that the powers of the latter Board
were laid Lown by a AP diructive (SCAPIN 1968: see this Mission's
despatch no. 1 of uhrury 1!, 1949), any debate as to which of the
two agencles actu the reins is of course academic. When
the Japanece r in efftiv ontrol over foreign exchange, how
ever, the conflict will be a real one.
A very tasir problem confronting the new Ministry, according
to Japanese scurces, ar! s frn jealousy between officials of the
Board of Trade and vet rans of the old Ministry of Commerce and In-
dustry. Resentment n the part o! the latter officials is apparently
directed in large part a ainst the inclusion of the term International
Trade (T susho) In ench of the Lureau nanes, and the consequent indica-
tion that the traditional functions of the old Ministry are henceforth
to be subordinated to the promotion of exports. In view of thi die-
satisfaction, the presence of the General Supervisor of International
Trade in the new organizition is considered unfortunate from a payoho-
logical as well as from an administrative point of view. The Ministry
can not be expected to futction smoothly while this basic conflict
continues.
Whether
RESTRICTED

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 489,
July 26, 1949.
-7-
Whether or not the Government, in liquidating the Boekd-oho,
has also liquidated the cumbersome and restrictive prooedures
which that organization symbolized remaine to be seen. There is
little evidence to support the: conclusion that it hae done so.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Enclosure: Ci
Five copies of Law no. 102 of 1949.
(Encl. available for Department only)
Copy to American Embassy, London
Parchment Mat to the Department
361.2/510.1
EGSeidensticker, Jr.rlee
RESTRICTED

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.89)
Encloe
Johyi's Deapete
Ministry of International
Trade and Industry
Establishment Law

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.85)
Ministay of Lutormattonal Trade and
Industry Establiohmant Lew
Contonts
Che]tor
I Geser) Previsione (articlse )
Chapter II Miniatry Proper
Suction 1. Itornal Suldivisione rticlos 
ti 2. uxiliem Orgare (Articl  1622)
S ctice 3. Lecal Braneh Offices (irticlos 23 28)
Cha ter 1I1 Extornal Orans (rticlee 29 64)
Suc 1. R y
Part 1. Gmcrel Frovisine (rtiales 3031)
I . L ternal Subdivisiore (ticlce )
 3. xliy rme (a 4041)
t. Luc Broe fice (50)
Hoac 2. Soal Buroau (rt1cl0s 4544))
2. Mlle Sefety md Inspection
Divics. (rticlue 45-47)
3.  line Safety  Inepection
Livi (aticler 4850)
2.I luctriel Scionce and
 (rticlus 51-52)
S3.
Tar. 1. Lumoral Prrvisiont (articlee 53•54)
(2)

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.90)
Fart 2. Iuternal Subdivisions (artiales 55-60)
Part 3. uxdliary Argans (art1ales 6163)
Boction. 4. Smaller Entorprise Apancy (rtiale 64)
Chapter IV Forsunnel (rticlos 65-66)
Chapter V Kodan (Govornment Corporation (rticle 67)
Supplementary Provisions
()

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.93)
Chapter I
General Frovisions
Trurposo I wlo
rtiole 1. The purposo of thie Law is to derine
clearly tho sccpe of reeponoibilities and the
powers of the Ministry of International Trods
and Ináustry end to provide an organisation fit
for the efficient conduct of the administrative
affaire and untorprises under the jurisdietion
of the Ministry.
(Establichmert)
Article 2. The ivistry f.Interzational Trade and
Indusiry is herety establiehed umder the pro-
visione f rticle 3 paragraph 2 of the National
Gover nnt Org mizetion Law (Law No. 120 of
1948).
2. The Ministry f International Trade and
Ludustry shull le hoaccd by the Winister
of Internaticncl Trade end Industry.
(ission of the Mirictry of Internetional Tredo
and Laiustry)
Artiole 3. The Mini:try f Litornatioual Trauo and
Induetry shall te tho Govornment crgan responeihle
for the tute rated administration of the followdr6
affairs und onterprisos ef the National Govcrndent:
trade d c strel of roreign exchcnee relating
t irtur ti i trade;
(2)
Premotion of prohuction of  ert goods,
ar ro ti , iaprovement, adjustuent
and in.spection f production, distrihu-
tien end c xsurptior of mineral and
industidal product;
(3)
Affairs corcorning weights ant measuret
and metors;
(3)

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.90)
(4) Frouotion cf development and utilisation
of rescurces of oal, other minerals,
olcctric power, eto., and adfustwent of
water powor for electrie power generetiuns
(5) Affaire concerning industrial propertys
unterprises:
(7)
Tost and rescarch  seiontifio toch.ology
far induetry and mi ine, end popularimatios
of the result of the toet and ruscarch;
(s) Esta lishment nd popularimetion of standarde
f r industry and induetrial products;
(9) Rescerci and statistice on coumerc, indary
a minin, and other affeirs concerming
comierce, industry and Lining
(10) Intarcaticnal trace my state;
(11) Men yely ale of. alcchel.
(owers  e iatry)
irticlo 4.  r the ur so ef carryinp cut the rospor
ililitice f, rovias for in thio Law, the
Ministry f Lnturmati cal Trado one Induetry shall
have the 1overe as lirted below. Such owere
elall, however, to excurcised ir accerdance with
lew (inlu in crlers issued thereunder).
(1) Te meke, within the linits of budgetary
apyropriations, contracts ncceseary for
cir ip ut its respensitlitier
(2) To o llect rovenues d mak payents
nececsmy ror carryi ut ite reeponsi-
1litieo
(3)
To setallish rnd mcistain officee and
other facilities diroctly required for
carryis ut its rosponcibilities;
(4)

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.96)
(4)
To procure wterielr for use in enterprisce,
office supplics,  cther research materiala.
atc., m ic: ere trectly roquirod for the camrying
ourryin cu o s resresibilitios
(5) To dispoae of unnocessary properties;
(e) T  i: st arrul cfatre, including
appoil amep, diemiosal, aFarts and disoiplimer
(7)
To esteblish ri meintain facilities required
for the welfare and health of rereonnel;
(8) To setablish and maintain bousing to bo
rented to personnel;
(9)
To prepere, distriunte or publish statis-
tice an data on research concer in the
affairs under ite jurisdiction;
(10)
To inepgct the affeirs undor ite juris-
diction and to take suoh coasuros as
may be required in accordance with tho
provisions of lawe or or 'ers;
(11)
To cispominate information to the publio
concorning the affaire under ite jurie-
dictn;
(12)
To adupt the official sesl of the
Miniscry of International Trade and
Incustry;
(13) To carry out axport and import;
(14) To grent licences for export and import;
(15)
To conclude agreement, etc. regarding
internationut trade;
(6) To fix gredes and stadarde, and provido
comditions for package, of oxport goods;
(5)

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.94)
(17) To deliver goode requiro: y them u the
Central Purchasing O.ices nd the Over
sou Supply Stores;
(18)
To prohibit or restrict tr nsactions, etc.
in foreign exchango relating to international
trade;
(19)
To (ivo approval t, reconstruction or
roorganization programe for the enter-
irieee under its jurisdiction;
(20) T. ive permission or approvel to the
juricical perscns for public interest
 thor crgenizations under its
jarisdiction;
juipment, etc. undor ite jurisdiction
(22) T. ell cntc or acjust distribution of the
tcricls unuor its juriediction;
(23) To ro ic or prohibit use f tho yoede
r ls, in extrenuly Enrt cupply,
 its urisdictien, und t order pro
Pucti e, shipment ur removal thereof and
exec ti  corstruction vorks for pro-
ducti n;
meat or renoval or cxocuti n of coretrue-
tion e  for production of the goods and
maturicle under its jurisdiction;
leace of the geeds ans materisle or iala
equipment, in extromely sl ort supy ly,
uncer its juriediction;
(26)
To inspect the goods and materiels under
its jurisdiction;
(6)

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.95)
(27) To grant permits to memsfegerere of
weights and measures, and meters:
(28) To manufacture, receive and sall
alcoho1;
(29) To grant pormits to manufacturere or
sellers of gun powder, other explosiwes
compressed gas and liquefied gass
(30) To control coalmining industry;
(31) To grant ; crmite to gas unterprisess
(32) To grant alproval to applications for
mining nd alluvial mining cr applice-
ticns for the use of lands by ompers
if mining rights end alluvial mining .
rights;
(33) To sus) end mining if necsseery in view
of the maintenance of mine-safety or
order to stop the use of, remodel or
ropair, mining equipment;
(34) To allocatc, or restrict supply or
consum tion of, electricity;
(35) To grant rmits to slectric power
generation n cupply enterprises and
private slcctric power generation
equipment and facilities;
(36)
Te ins oct the structure for genera-
ticn r tranemiesion of clectricity
a? grant licencce to manufucturers
f clectric ar: liances;
(37) T. carry out examination for errlicants
for ratent attorneys end effect retis-
tration for the saic attorneye;
(38) To give cucision cr examination on
aprlications concerning icdustrial
property;
(7)

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.97)
(39) To register industrial property:
(40) To give judgement or trial on appeal 
to affairs concerning industrial propertys
(41) The powers provided for in Artiele 3 of.
the Smaller Enterprise Agency 'Establishment
Law (Law No. 83 of 1948):
(42) The powers provided for in Artiele 3 of
the Agency of Industrial Seience and
Technology Esteblishment Law (Law No.
207 of 1948);
(43) In addition to those listed in the pre-
oeding itens, such powere as are placed
under the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry by lew (including
orders issued thereunder).
2. Miristor of International Trade and Industry
shell confer with linister of Finanee on the
fundamental matters concorning export and
inyort of tobacco, roll paper for cigarette,
salt, brine, salt w.ter, cruc camphor and
camphor oil, en with Minister f Agricul-
turo and Forestry, of staple food-stuff as
rice, wheat, etc., fertilizer end feed-stuff.
Ghapter II The Ministry Freper
S.ction 1
Internal Subdivisione
(Internal Subdivieions)
Article 5.* The Ministry of Interzational Trade und
Industry shall have the Minister's Secretariat
ene the following cight bureaus:
International Trade Bureau
Trade Promotion Buresu
(8)

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.96)
Epterprise Burean
Textile Buraau
Qundries Buroqu
Jachinery Bureau
Chimistry Bureau
Iron and Steel Bureau
2. Tharo shall be established in the Minister's
Becretariat the Research and Statistics Divi-
sion, in the Trace Fromotion Buroau the Aocount
Division, in the Enterprise Bureeu the Prooure-
ment and Reparations Division, in the Machinery
Bureau the klectric Communication Equipment
Division and Vehiclos Divisicn and in the
Chemistry Bureau the Chemical Fertiliser
Division.
(Special Positions)
Article 6. The Ministry of irternational Trede
and Industry shall bive one Internat: nel
Trade Administrater.
2. The International Trade Adwinistrator shall,
assisting the Vice-Minister, regulate the
affairs of the Ministry (excluding thoso
under the jurisdicticr of extermal orgars).
3. The Ministora Secreteriat shall have ore
Chiof of Secretariat.
4. The Chief of Secretariat shall udminister,
under orders, the effsirs of the Minister's
Secretariat.
5. Bech f the International Trade Purocu and
the Textile Bureau shall have cue Deputy
Chier.
6. The Deputy Chief of Burecu shall, assiet-
ing the Chiof of Bureeu, regulate the affsirs
of the bureeu,
(9)

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.92)
(Tumetiont :f Ministers.Soer tariat)
Article 7. The Minister's Secretariat shall, in connee-
tion xith the responsi? .ities of the Ministry of
International Trado and Industry, take charge of
the following affaire:
(1) Confidential matters;
(2) Claesification, appointment and dismissal
of porsonnel, their status, cisciplinary
purishment, performanco of duty end other
personnel affaiis; alsc, their instruc-
tion and training;
(3)
Custody of the Ministor's ana the Ministry
official seals;
(4) Receipt, cispitch, compilátion end custody
of orficial documents;
(5)
Busget catiwatos for er endituros and
revenucs, settlemert of acccunte, eccounts
and ccourt uudit (exclucing the special
acc unts for intermational trade and for
pomepoly sala of alcohol);
(6) Contrel of state  erties mecessap t
carry  a ce re istrataen (oeludinp thoee
belongir to the speclal uce unts for
foruign trcce a for omeroly eale of
alc(.1);
(7)
Heulth, me fcnl treatment and other welfare
meapuret for porsoumel;
(81)
Surv ys and statistics en  ceerdination
therent (exelucing th s. under the
jurie iction cf th: Iterrational Trade
Éureau und external or ens);
(9) Collection, custody, compilation and
publicatien of booke and data;
(10) Dissonination of information;
(10)

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.98)
(11) Administretive inspeetions
(12) Liaiscn;
(13)
Coordiration, adjustment and planning.
such as examination of draft bills and
orders;
(14)
In addition to the affaire listed.in the
preceding items, such reppcreibilities of
the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry as are not in the charge of other
bureaus or organs.
2. The Research and Statistios Division shall
take charge of the affairs as listed in item
(8) to (10) inclusive.
(Functions of the International Trade Buresu)
Article 8. The International Trade Burean shall
take charge of the following affairss
(1) Drafting, and over all adjustment, in
enforcement of policies and programs
concerning international trade;
(2)
Agreements eto. concerning international
trade;
(3)
Survey, preparation of statistics and supply
of information on oversea markets, situations
of trede, abroad and domestic, and on others
concerning international trade;
(4)
Fromotion, imprpvement, adjustment and
coordination in the import of commodities,
end affairs concerning import;
(5)
Proourement of raw materials for export
goods;
(6)
In addition to the affairs listed in the
preceding items, such reaponsibilities
(11)

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.98)
concerning international trade as are not
in the charge of other bureaus or organe:
(7) Adfustment of denand and supply of the
goods and materials under the jurisdietion
of the Ministry of International Trede and
Industry.
(Fumetions of the Trade Promotion Bureau)
Article 9. The Trade Pronotion Bureau shall-take
charge of the following affairs:
(1) Exhibition and presentation of the samples
of competing goods on oversee markets and
other specimens relating to internstional
trade;
(2) Supervision and enforcement of precedures
for international trade,
(3) Inspection of export;
To keep contect for the transportation,
oustody and insurence of export or import
goods, and to prcide over affaire
coneerning transferring of the goods and
materials under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of International Trade and
Incustry.
(5)
Guidance and supervisien f the Foreign
Trade Kodan and other organizations for
international trade;
(6)
Affairs regarding reception of trade
missions;
(7)
Promotion, imppovement, and coordination
of the export of the goode and materials
under the jurisdiction of Resources
Agency and other Ministries (excluding
these under the charge of the Textile
Bureau and Machinery Burecu), and affaire
(12)

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.97)
sonserning export of these goods end
materials;
(9) Comtrol of foreign smihange relating to
international trade;
(10) To • amine purohase prices of export
goods, sales prices of impors goodss
charges for import, prises of goods for
international trade and prieee for
transactione with olaims to foreign
ourrencies;
(11)
Accommodation of funds for interne-
tional trade;
(12) Special account for forigigr tredos
(13)
In addition to those listed in the preeede
ing items affairs concerning promotion
of international trade.
2. The Account Division shall t ake charge of
the affairs listed in items (9) to (12)
inclusive of the preceding paragraph.
(Functions of the Enterprise Bureau)
Article 10. The Enterprise Bureau aball take
charge of the following affaire:
(1) Rationalization of the enterprises
under the jurisdiction of the Ministry
of International Trade and Industry:
(2) To proside ver affairs cencerning
accommodation of funds for, and
accounts of the enterprises under
the jurisciction of the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry;
(3) To preside over affairs concerning labour,
including procurement of goods for workers
(13)

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.97)
for the enterprises under the jurisdiction
of the Ministry of International Trade and
Industry;
(4) In addition to those listed in  preeing
iteme, general affairs for the developeent,
prises under the jurisdictics of the mimdes
of International Trade and Industry
(5)
Basic affairs concerning development and
improvement of commeree, industry and
minings
(6) To preside over affaire concerning inves-
tory of exwessive goods and materialss
(7) Affairs covcerning Industrial Reconstrustion
Kodan;
(8) Fromotion of produstion of the goods and
matcrials under the furisdiction of the
Ministry of International Trade and
Industry which are in requirement by the
Allied Forces;
(9)
Enforcement of reparation in the enter?
prises under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of International Trade and
Industry.
2. The Frocurement end Reparations Division
shall take charge of the affairs listed in
item (8) und (9) of the preceding paragraph.
(Furctions f the Textile Bureau)
Article ll. The Textile Bureeu shall take charge
f tho following affairs:
(1) Premotion, improvement and cocrdination
of export of the following textile pro-
ducts and management of oxport enter
prise thereof;
(14)

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.96)
Cotton goeds
Raw silk, short out cocoons and 
goods
Chemical teartile goods
Woolen.goods
Bemp goods
listed above).
(2)
listed in the preceding item (emlating
raw silk and sbort out coscen)s
(3) Promotion, improvement and soosdisatioe
of the distribution and eomsumptice of.
the textile goods listed in item (1)
(excluding raw silk, short out soooom and
those used oxclusively for forestry.
agricultural, live-stock or maritime
industry);
(4)
Development, improvement and poordinetion
of the enterprises under the jurisdietion
of the Textile Bureau.
(Functions of the Sundries Bureau)
Article 12. The Sunirics Bueau shall take charge
of the fol low'nr affairs
of the export, production, distribution
and consuny tion of the folloming sundry
goods:
Daily necessities made of metals
(15)

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.96)
Rubber, rubber goods end carben blesk
Hide and leather (excluding rew hide
and raw fur), hide and leather goods,
glue, gelatine and tannis
Pottery, porealain, glass, coment and
other ceramins
Pulp, paper and paper produsts
Materials for packing
Engineering and building materials
(excluding timber)
Wooden and bamboo goods
Sundry goods other than listed above.
(2)
Enterprises concerning export of the
sundry goods listed in the preceding items
(3)
Levelopment, improvement and coordination
of the enterprises under the jurisdietion
of tho Sundries Bureau.
(Functions of the Machinery Bureau)
Article 13 The Mechinery Bueau shall take charge
of the following affairss
the expert, production, distribution and
cons pion f ths machines, inatrument,
, e below (excluding rolling
k, rlway sinals and other railway
ety covices, subatitutional combus-
tive fr motor car, waggon pro
Ce the juiediction of the Minictry
of Transportetion, vessels, engine for
vessels end their fittings, and agrioultural
instrument produced under the jurisdietion
of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry)
(16)

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.98)
and manegehent of export enterprise thereor
(excluding the cistribution end conaumption
of those in exclusive use by forestry mgril
cultural, live-stock, or maritime industry and
and of those under the jurisdictiem of the
Sundries Bureeu and Iron and Steel Bureau
and, as to radio receiing sets, of este=
blishment of minimm performanee standarde)
Precision maehines and instruments
Industrial machines and instrumente
Agricultural and aquatic mechine and
instruments
Electric machines, instruments and
eppliances
Electric oommmications equipment,
machines and appliances
Motors
Automobiles
Bicycles
Industrial vehicles
Internal combustion engines for
vehicles
Machines and instruments other than
listed above.
(2)
Fromotion, improvement and coordination of
the export of rolling stock, railway signale
and other railway safety devices substitu
tional combustion for motor-car, waggon
produced under the jurisdiction of Ministry
of Transportation vessels engine for
vessels and their fittings, and entem.
prises concerning export thereof;
(17)

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.97)
(3)
Fromotion, improvement and coordination of
the export, produstice, distribution and
consumpticn of cast and wrought goeds and
affairs concerning expcrt thereof (emlmi-
ing those under the charge of the Sundriss
Bureau and the Iron and Steal Bureau):
(4)
Weights, measures and metere (amluding
those under the charge of the Ageney of
Industrial Seiense and Teshnology);
(5) Holding bieycle rases.
(6) Development, improvement and coordinstion
of the enterprises under the jurisdission
of the Machinery Bureau.
2. The Eleetric Commmication Equipmont Division
shall take charge of affairs ralating to elest-
rio commmications equipment, machines and
appliapoes out of thcse libted in items (1)
and (6) of the preceding paragraph.
3. The Vehieles Livision shall take charge of
affairs relating to authomobilos, bicycles,
industrial vehicles and internal combustion
enginee for vehicles and springs out of
those listed in items (1) and (6) of paragraph
1, and of those listed in items (2) and (5)
of the said reragraph.
(Functions cf the Chemistry Bureau)
Article 14. The Chemistry Pureeu shall take charge
of the following affairs:
(1)
Fremotier, improvement and ceordination
of the ex rt, procuction, distribution
and conr tie ef the chemical products
(excluli f cdstuffs, cri ks end chemicals
for  raculture) listed bolow (excluding
these in cclusive use by foresay, agri-
cultural r maritime industry and those
undor the charge of the Textile Bureau
and Sundries Bureeu).
(18)

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.92)
Seda, axplosives and ether
chemisal preduste
Cealtar, ceal-ter derivete
other ergmic chemieel pred
Fermentation predusts and thals
derivatives
Oil and fat preducts
(2) Premetion, imprevement and eesnddk
of the aapert and pradaatsem at
fertilizars (exmluding ealpipm
(3)
preceding items;
(4)
Premotien, imprevement and cesrdimstiem et
the distributiem and censumptiem a 
trial salt and crude campher,
(5)
Menopely sale of alcohol, and predotie
and sale of butharel and meetezej
(6) 'Special acceunts fer the memepely sale
of alcohel;
(7)
Control ef explesives, compressed 'gas end
liquefied gas (excluding centrel en pesse-
sien of explesives);
(8) Development, imprevement and edjustment
of the enterprises under the jurisdietiom
of the Chemistry Bureau.
2. The Chemical Fertilizer Bivisiem shall take
charge of affairs prescribed im item (2) of
the preceding paragraph and the matters
relating to chemical fertilisera out of the
affairs liated in items (3) and (s) of the
preceding paragraph.
(19)

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.94)
(Fumetiems of the Iren asd Steel Burean)
Article 15. The Iren and Steel Baresu shall take
churge' of thè following affairse
(1) Premeties, imprevemest and eesrdimeéiem
of the export, predustien, distributies
and censumptien of the iren, steel, skses
listed below (excluding these wader the
charge of the Suedriss Bareem and the
Mackinery Buresu):
Pig irem
Steel and scai-finiahed steel premsits
Iron and steel produsts
Iron  steel sorap
(2) Affairs cencerning expert of the ires,
steel, etc. listed in the preceding itemes
(3) Develepment, imprevement and edfestmest ef
the enterpriscs under the jurisdietiem et
the Iron and Steel Bureau.
Sestion 2
Auxiliary Organs
(Auxiliary Organs)
Article 16. In addition to those previded fer in
Article 22, the Ministry preper shall have the
following auxiliary organs:
Textile Goeds Inspestien House
Daily Necessities Imspectien House
Machine amd Teol Inspeetion Houss
Chemical Reagent Inspeetien House
(20)

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.93)
(Restále Goods Inspection Bouse)
Intermational Trade and Indkastay.
 the meses and lecatlene of the Textile
Goods Inapection Bouses aball be as
fublows.
Location
Name
Egote Textile Goods
Kyoto
Enspestion House
Yekobeme Textile Goods
Imspestion House
Yokohame
Kobe Tertile Goods
Kobe
Inspection House
Nagoya Textile Goeds
Nagoya
Inspection House
Kiryn Textile Goods
Kiryu
Inspestien House
Tsuruoka Textile Geeds
Tsuruoka
Inspeotion House
Funui Textile Goods
Pukui
Inspectien House
Kanamawa Textile Goeds
Inspection House
Kanazewa
(Daily Necessities Inapection House)
Article 18. The Daily Nocessities Inspectien
House shall be an organ to take charge of
affairs concerning inspectiom of the daily
(20)

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.93)
mescesities, the pradactien of mhich is under the
jurisdicties of the Mimistry of Internatismal
trade and Imiustry.
2. The menes end lesstiems ef the Daily Neses-
sÉties Easpection Resse shall be as fellomes
Lecaties
Tokye Daily Necessities
Inspesties Heuse
Tokye
Guake Daily Nesesstties
Inspeeties Heuse
Osake
(Machise and Teel Inspestien Heuse)
Artiole 19. The Meshime and Teel Inspestiem Heuse
shall be am ergan to take charge of affairs
concerming inspootion ef the machine and teel
under the jurisdistien ef the Mimistry of
Intermatiesal Trade and Industry.
2. The Machime and Teal Inspectien Heuse shall
be established in Tokye-To.
(Chemieal Reagemt Imspoetien Heuse)
Article 20. The Chemical Reagemt Inspection House
shall be an organ to take charge of affaire
coneerning inspectiem of the chemical reagents.
2. The Chemical Reagemt Inspection House shall
be established in Tekye-Te.
(Branch and Sub-Branoh, etc. of Imspeetien House)
Article 2l. The Minister of Imtermational Trade
and Industry may establish bramches or sub-
branches of Imspectien Heuses at mecessary.
places for the purpose of charging them with
a part of the affairs of the Inspestion Heuser.
(22)

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.96)
2. The internal organisation of Inspecties
organisation
of their tranobe
and sub-branches shall be provided for by
Ministry of International Trade gnd
Industry Ordinance.
(Other Auxiliary. Organs)
Article 22. The organe antered in the last 
blished as auxiliary organs of the Ministay
proper, their purposes being givem im the
right columm:
Name
Purpese
Advisors' Conference
To study and daliberate
on important matters
cencerning isternational
trade
Councilleers'
To study and daliberate
Cenference
en prefessienal matters
cencerming isternatignal
trade and industry
Impert Councih
To study and deliberate
on important matters
concerning purehase and
allecatien of impert
goods
Export Council
To study and deliberate
on impertant matters
cencerning promotion
of expert
Expert Goods
Te study and deliberate
Inspestion
on impertant matters
Coumcil
cencerming inspestion.
fer expert such as grading
of, standards and con-
ditioms regarding packing
for, expest goods
(23)

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.95)
Designated Tertile
To study and deliberate
and Clothing Seller
en matters eesesening
Registratios Coumcil
regiatratiem fer sellers ef
of the designsted testilen
and clothing.
Counail for Materi-
To stuty and daliberats
als te be Serapped
cn impertant matters
concerming materials
to be serapped
Designated Preduo-
To study and daliberate
tion Materials Allo-
e matters conessming
cation Standaras
stardards fer allesaties
Council
of the designated pre-
apotiom matérials
2. Tho erganisation, responsibilities, and coum-
cillers and other persenmel ef the seriliary
organs mentioned in the preceding paragraph
shall be previded for by Cabimet Order, waless
otherwise previded for by law (ineluding erders
issued thereumder) separataly.
Sectiem 3.
Lecal Branch Ofrices
(Regional Bureau of Intermatiemal Trede and Industry)
Article 23. The Ministry proper shally as its lecal b
branch offices, have the Regiemal Bureaus of
International Trade and Induetry.
(Respomsibilities)
Article 24. The Rogional Bureau ef Intermatiomal
Trade and Industry shall take charge of the
fellowing affairs out of the respemmibili-
ties of the Ministry preper and extermal
organs (excluding Mine Safety Bureau ef
Resources Agenoy);
(1) Premotion, improvement and eeerdinstion
of the expert and impert;
(24)

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.89)
(3) Centrel of fereige g 
internatiomal trade;
(3)
eeccering predstion of 
(5)
sion (exalmling these esess
mining industay);
(7)
Enfercemest of reperetsen In the enkat
peleer rader ita jurdodtations
(8)
these concerning predustism of seal)s
(9) Menopoly salo of aleebel and preduation
and sale of buthasel and sostemes
(10) -Applicatiem fér emd registration ef
mining er alluvial mining end ether
geseral affaire cencerning mines;
(11)
Adjustment of demand and supply, and
ratienalisaties is the mtilisatien.
of electricitys
(12)
Supervision of clestric peser genera-
tiem and supply enterprises, electric
exgimeering werks snd electrie equip-
nent and facilities, research asd adjust-
ment of water fer electric pewer gemere-
tien, and premstion of the censtrusties
ef eloctric power generaties end trans-
missien equipment and fasilities;
(25)

=== Page 376 === (confidence 0.93)
(13) In addition to these 11sted in the 
adjustment of the gemeratiom, tremeed
and ether affairs cssceraing elestrisity
including maistenapee of safetys
(24)
(15) Premetiem of, and guidanse fer, smaller
enterprises;
(16)
Premetiem of experiments and stuty ls
mining, and pepularisatiem of the results
thereefs
(17)
Pepularisatiom of standards of industry and
industrial preducts.
(Mames, Lecations and Areas ef Juriadietiem)
Articie 25. The names,-lecatiems end juriedistissal
asea of the Regiemal Bureau of Intermatienal
Trade asd Industry shall be as fellows.
Aree of
Name
Lecation
Drrisdieti
Sappere Bureau of
Sappere
Hokkaide
Intermatiomal Trede
and Industry
Sendai Bureau of
Sendai
Aemeri-ken,
International Trade
Iwate-kam,
and Industry
Miyasi-kem,
(26)

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.91)
Tokye Burean of
Tokye
Internetional Trade
and mdustry
Negoye Breas of
Kagege
Intermatienal' Trade
and Industry
Osaka Bureau of
Oealca
Leternational Trade
and Industry
Hiroshima Bureau of Hiroshime Jetteri-kem,
International Trade
and Industry
Yamagusbi-ken.
Shikoku Bureau of
Marugane
Takuskima-kem,
International Trade
Kagawarken,
and Industry
Phime-ken,
Kechi-kss.
Fukuoka Bureau of
Fukuoka
Fulkuoka-ken,
International Trade
Saga-ken,
and Industry
Magesaki-ken,
Kumameto-ken,
dita-ken,
Miyasaki-ken,
Kageshims-ken
(27)

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.95)
paragraph, Pert Kanmon shall be umder the juris
dictien of Fukueka Buresn of Intermational Trade
and Industry.
3. The Mixister of Intermatiemal Trade end Industry
shall.desigmate the cempetent Regiesal Bureeu ef
Internatienal Trade and Industry whes am aree ef
mining er alluvial mining lies under the farise
natioral Trade and Industry er if dum to am
areas of the Bureaus of Intermatiemal Trade and
Industry, there arese questien em the jurindistdies
of mining or alluvial mining.
4e The Mintster of Interaatiamal Trade and Indmatery
may, if necessary, temperarlly shange the juris
dictiesal areas as previded fen in paragraph l.
(Lsternal Sabdivisiens)
Article 26. The Bureau of Istermatipmal Trade and
Indstry shall have the fellewikg five divisiems.
Hewever, if nesessary, the mumber of divisiem may
be reduced as determined by the Minister of Intere
mational Trade and Industry:
General Affairs Divisiem
Firet Intemational Trade Division
Second International Trade Mivisiom
Mine Division
Elestric Power Divisien
2. In addition to the previsiens or the preeeding
paragraph, the details of the orgamisatien of
intermal sub-divisions of the Bureaus ef Inter-
matiomal Trade and Industry shala be previded
for by Ministry of Intermational Trade and
Industry Ordinaace.
(28)

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.93)
(auxiliary Organ)
Article 27. The Burean of Internatienel
Industry shall have as its sediliary
Lesal Floctric Pomer Cemeils.
2. The Leeal Electric Pewer Ceusoil shall hom
for its ebject researek and dellhert
Bureaus of Internatienal Trade and
Lecal cleotrio pomer gomerméiem mnd
sterprises
3. The erganisatien, respensibalities, 
fer by Cabinet Order, unless ethesadse
provided for by law (including erder isméed
thereumcer) separately.
(Sub-branch Offices, Internatiomal Trade
Offiees, etc.)
Artiole 28. The Minister of Intermatiemal Trade
and Industry máy establish at mécessady
plesss where needed Intermational Trede
Offices Alcehel Ofrices, Mine Offiees,
Electric Power Offices and sub-brameh
offices ef the Regienal Buremn of Inter-
natienal Trade-and Industry fer the time
being and factories fer the purpese ef
charging them with a part of the affairs
of the Bureau. Their mames, lecations,
areas of jurisdietion, scope of fumctions
and internal organization shall be provided
for by Minietry of Intermatiemal Trade and
Industry Ordinance.
Chapter III
External Orgamo
(Establisbment of External Organs)
Article 29. External ergans as establiaked under
the Minister of Intarnatienal Irede and
(29)

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.96)
Industry under the previsiese of Artisle 3
paragreph 2 ef the Natienal Geversmest
Organisatien Lew shall be as fellews:
Reseurces Ageney
Agency of Industrial Scienee and Teckmelegy
Patent Agency
Small Eaterprise Agemey
Soctien 1
Reseuross Ageney
Fart 1
General Previsises
(Missiem and Head of Reseurces Agamey)
Artiole 30. The Resources Agesey shall have fer
its principal missien charging of affaire
concerming develepmest of ceal and ether
mineral reseurces and elestric pewer rese-
urces and those concerning.mine safety and
others regarding mines, water pewer fer
eloctric pewer gemeratien and elestrisity.
2. The Reseurces Agency shall be headed by
Directer of Rescurces Agency.
(Powers of the Resources Agemey)
Irticle 31. Fer the purpese.of carrying out its
responsibilities, the Reseurces Agemey shall
exercise the pewers enumerated in Article 49
items (1) to (12) inelusive, items (22) to
(25) inclusive, items (30) te (36) inclusive
and item (43).
Part 2
Intermal Subdivisions
(Intermal Subdivisions)
Article 32. The Resourees Agency shall have the
Direster's Secreatriet and the following five
bureaus:
(30)

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.90)
Ceal Contral Burocu
Ceal Predustion Bureau
KMise Buresu
Mise Safety Buresn
Electric Pover Broau
2. There shall be established in the seek
Rever Develegpent Division.
(Spesia) Pesitiees)
Artiale 33. The Rahouress Agency shall have ene
Deputy Directors
2. The Deputy Direster shall, assisting the
Birdeter, regulate the affaire of the
Agomay.
(Pumstlems of Direster's Secrotariat)
Article M. The Direster's Secretariat shall,
in eemesstien with the respensibilities of
the Resources Agepcy, take charge of the
fellouing affeirs.
(1) Confidential matters;
(2) Classificatiem, appointment and dismissal
of persenmel, their status, disciplinary
pumishment, parfermance of duty and ether
persenmel affairs; alse, their walfare,
instructiep and training:
(9) Sustedy a the Direetor's and the
Ageney's erricia) seals;
eastedy of effidial decuments;
((四)

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
(5) acsousts and accuust audit,
Costrel of state prepertiee pooessary for
administratien amd supplies;
(7) administrative imspestiems;
(8) Research and statisties;
(9) Liaison;
(10) Is addition to those listed im the preeed
ing items, such reapensibilities of the.
Resources Ageacy as are net in the charge
of ether bureau of ergams.
(Funetions of the Coal Centrel Bureeu)
Article 35. The Coal Centrel Bureau shall take
charge of the following affairs:
(1) Premetion, imprevement and adjustmemt of
the distributies and censumptien of ceal;
(2) Premeties, imprevement and adjustment ef
the predustien, distributiem and censump-
tien of ligmite, ceal and distilled er
presessed preducts of lignite (excluding
these under the charge of the Chemistry
Bureau)s
(3) Control of ccalmining industry and con-
pensation for loesos incidentel to the
said control (amluding those under the
charge of the Coal Production Bureau):
(4) Bevelopment, improvement and Scordinatiem
of the esterprises under the jurisdictiem
of the Ceal Centrel Bureau;
(5) Solid Fuel Distribution Kodan;
(6) In additen to these listed in each of
the preceding itams, coerdinatien and
edjustmest of affairs cencerming ceal.
(32)

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.93)
(Prpotiors of the Geal 
aio 36. The
tako charge f the
(a) Prosotion, inpreveent
of the produstien of
and researeh en develogmept ef
fields.
The Develepment Divisism akall take
of the affaire liated in tiom (3) af
preseding paragraph.
(Fumotiems of the Mise Dureaa)
Artiole 37. The Mine Bureeu shall take
of the following affairss
(1) Applicatiom and registratiem far
and alluvial mining, and ether
affairs concerning mines (esolutim
these under the charge of Mime Safety
Dureau);
(2)
Presetión, imprevement and adjusteset
of the produstien, distributiem and
censumption of the minerals, metals,
sto. as listed belew (excluding those
cencerning distribution and consumption
of the goods or naterials in emlusive
use by forestry, agricultural, liv-
steck er maritime industry and these
under the cherge ef the Sundries
Bureau, the Mackinery Bureau and the
Chemistry Bureau);
Minerals (excluding ceal and ligmite)
and important elay and stemes
Nem-metal and mimeral preduets
(33)

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.89)
Non-ferrens metals and mem-ferroum metar
profurte
Petrcleum produete
(3)
Domalepaent, iuprevement and adjmatment 
the entesprises under the juriadietion 
the ie Breat.
(Fumstieme of the Nine Safety Bereaa)
Artiele 38. The Mime Safety Burean shall take
charge of the follewing affeirss
(1) Preventien, in coalmimes, of damage is
Iamem life (including veatilladen fer
the madatenaee of health, ond rellaf
werks at the time af acoideates
(2) Pretestiem ef minerel rescurces;
(3) Preservatiem of safety in equipment and
fasilities of mines;
(4) Prevention of mineral damages;
(5) Improvement of mine safety techmelegy.
at mine;
(6) Educatien and guidance of mine safety.
(Funetioms of the Electrio Power Buresu)
Article 39. The "leetric Power Bureau shall take
charge of the following affairs:
(1) Adjustment of demand and supply, and
ratiomalizatien in utilisatiom, of slect-
risity:
(2) Supervision of eleetric pewer ganeration
and supply enterprises, elestric engineering
werks and elestric equlpmant and facilities;
(34)

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.94)
electric pemer gaseratien and censtruet
of eleetric pewer equipmest and fagilitis
(4) In additien to these liated in sach of 
preceding items, promstiex, ipprevement
distribgtion and consumption of elestrimit
and ether affaire conccraing olestrfcity
including mmintonance of safelys
(5)
Premeties, imprevemant and majustmemt ef
the enterprises under the jurisdictien of
the Electric Power Bureaue
2. The Electrio Pewer Develowment Divisiemr shell
ganeration gut of those listed in item (3) of
the preceding paragraph.
(auxiliary Organs)
Article 49. In additien to these previded fer im
Artiale 41 the Resources Ageney shall have the
following auxiliary orgams:
Mime Inspecter Training Institute
Mine Safety Technology Lastitute:
2. With regard to the Mime Inspeeter Training
Institute and the Mixe Safety Technology
Rstitutelmine Safety Lar (Law No.70 of
2949) shall opply
(Other Auxiliary Organs)
xticle 4l. The organo entered in the lart selume
of the fellewing tatle iell be these sstablisbed
as mxiltary organs of the Resources Agamay.
treir purpodes boing given is the right celum:

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.95)
Name
Purpese
National Cealmine
To study and deliberate,
Contrel Council
in raspense te jaquiries
of the Mimister of Inter
natiouc Trade and Industrr,
on Imporcnt natters com-
cerring contrel of cealmimes
Cealmining Less
To decide on the amejt
Compessation
Committee
incidental to cestral
cralainse
Mimeral Damage
To study and deliberaté
Rehabilitation
on impertnt matters e-
Council
cerning policies and mre-
grams, for the rehabili-
tatiom of mineral famages
Geal Field
To study and deliberate
Expleration
on inportaat matters cen-
Couneil
cerning enterprises to
develep ceal fields
Gas Enterprise
To study and deliberate
Council
en important matters com-
cerning gas enterprise.
Impertant Mineral
To study cnd deliberate,
Council
matters concerming eom-
pensstion fer lesses sus
tained by Teikeku Mime
Develepmest Ce., Ltd.
Mining Industry
To study and deliberate,
Law Amendment
on impertant matters
Council
concsrsing amendsent of
Lars and Orders regard-
ing mining
(36)

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.91)
Petreloum Reseuross
To atady and deliberate
Revelepment Preme-
tien Coumcil
prepstien of develep
mont of petreloum
reseuress
Wine Safety
Examisation
Committee
cencerning their gmlifi
cation
Central Mine
To study and deliberate,
Safety Council
in respesse to inquiries
of the jinsater of Inter-
satienal Trade and Industay,
en iupertant matters com-
perning miuje safoty
Central *lestrio
To study ad deliberate,
Esterprise Council
en impertait matters cem-
cerning electric ester-
prises
2. The erganisation, respensibilities, and ceum-
cillers and ether persenmel of the auxiliary
ergans mentiemed in the preoeding paragraph
mimll be previded for by Gabimet order, unless
otherwise previded for by law (including
erders issued therounder) esparately.
Fart 4.
Lecal Branch Offiess
(Lesal Branch Offices)
Article 42. The Resouroes Agency shall have Ceal
Bureaus as its lecal branch effices.
2. The Mime Bafety and Inspectien Divlsien
Interaatienal Trade and Iadustry and the
Ceslaises Satety and Isspestien Divisies
at the Coal Martau.
Gn)

=== Page 388 === (confidence 0.94)
Boed 1.
Coal Bureeu
(Ceal Bureau)
Article 43. With regard to the Ceal Bereau fer the
Temperary State Centrel ef Cealmining Law (Lew
No. 219 of 1947) shall apply.
(amxiltary Organ)
Article 4he The Ceal Bureau shall have the Lesal
Cealmime Centrel Council as its auriliary
ergm.
2. With regard to the Lecal Cealmime Cestrel
Comeil the Temperary State Cestrel ef Ceal-
mining law shall ply.
Boad 2.
Mine Safety and Inspec-
tiem Divisies
(Funetion)
Article 45. The Mime Safety and Imspeetien Division
shall take charge ef a part of the affairs cem-
cerning mine safety, exeluding that of cealmines,
under the jurisdietien of the Mime Safety Bureau
of the Rescurces Agency.
(Names, Lecations and Areas of Jurimdictiom)
Article 46. The lecatiems and areas of jurisdiction
of the Mime Safety. and Inspectiom Divisioms shall
be those of the Imternatienal Trade and Industry
Bureaus at which they are placed, and their
names shall be previded fer by the Minister of
Intermatienal Trade and Industry.
(Imtermal Subdivisions and Auxiliary Orgams)
Artiele 47. The details of the organization of the
Mime Safety and Inspectiem Division shall be
provided for by Ministry of Intermatioml
Trade and Imdustry Ordinamse.
(38)

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.94)
2. The Mine eyd
heve the Loasl Coal
auxiliary ergans.
3. With regard to the Lecal Cealmise
mittees the Mine Safaty Law aball
Head 3.
spection Division
(Funotions)
Division shall take charge of a part of
arfairs concerning tho eoalmime mafete
wider the jurisaiotien ef the Mined
Breau of the Digources gemey.
(Nemes, Locstiena and Areas of Jurisdictien)
Artiole 49. Ta lécations and areas of jurisdiotia
of the Coslnme Safety and Inspectiem Divisies
shall be thote ef the Coal Bureaus at which
they are placed and their names shall be
provided for by the Minister ef Imtermational
Trade and Industry.
(Internal Subdivisions and Auxiliary Organs)
Articld 50.. The details of the organisation of the
Codlmine Safety and Inspection Division shall
Yo provided for by Ministry of Interaational
Trade and Industry Ordinance.
2., The Coalmine Bcfety and Inapection Division
shall havè the Local Coalmine Safety Commit-
tées as its auxiliary organs.
With regard to the Local Cealmine Safety
Cormittees the Mine Safety Ixw shall upply.
Sectio2.
Agency ef Industrial
Scieuce and Technology
(39)

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.96)
(agenicy of Industrial Scieace and Teckmakogy)
Article . The orgaaisatien, respensikilitdes
pewars of the Agency of Industrial Sa-esse and
Technelogy shall be as previded for is the
Agency of Industrial Science and Teasmeleg
Establishment Law.
(Auxiliary Organs)
Aricle 52. The organs entered in the left eal
of the Totzowing table snall be these estaklisked
as auxiliary organs of the Agency of Imdustrial
Science and Technology, their purpeses being
givon in the right colum:
Neme
Purpose
Industrial Scienoo
To make decision en im-
and Tochnology
portant matters cenoerm-
Oporction Committeo
ing operation of the
Agency of Industrial
Science and Technelogy
Lidustrisl Scionce
To deliberate en imper-
and Technology
tant matters concerming
Ceuncil
science and technelegy en
mining and industry
Japun Industrial
Ic study and deliberate,
Standards Council
in respense to inquiries
of tha Ministers concerm-
ed, on matters concerning
standarization of industry
Hot Spring Heat
To study and deliberate,
Utilization Coumcil
on important matters
concerning utilisation
of hot spring best
2. The orgarization, responsibilities, and members
and other persennel of the auxiliary orgams mem-
tioned in the preceding paragraph shall
for by Cabinet Order, unless etherwise previded
for by law (imcluding erders issued theridbder)
separately.
(40)

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.94)
Séctiem 3.
Patent Agg
Part 1
General Previsione
(Missiem and Heed of Patent Agenay)
Article 53. The Tatent Agenuy shall have fer it
principal mission the discharging of afrais
cemcarming invention, utility medels, desis
and trade marks.
2. The Patent Aganoy shall be headed ky.
Birester of Patest Agency.
(Powers of the Patent. Agenay)
Article %. For the puggese of earrying eut its
respensibilities te Patent Agency shall
exercise the pewers enmerated in srtiele 4
items (1) to (12) inolusive, 1tems (37) to
(40) inclus1ve, and item (43)
Part 2.
Imternal Subdivisions
(Imternal Subdidision)
Article 55. The Patent Agency shall have the
Lirecter's Secretariat and the fellewing
four Divisiens:
General Affairs Division
First Examination Division
Secend Examination Division
Judgement Division
(Functioms of the Directer's Secretariat)
Article 56. The Director's Secretariat shall, in
cennectien with the respensibilities of the
Patent Agency, take charge of the fellewing
affairss
(42)

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.96)
(1) Cenfidential matters;
(2) Classificatien, appeintmest and dissdseal
of persenmel, their status, disciplinary
pumishment; perfermance of duty and ether
personncl affairs; also their welfare,,
instruotion and trainings
official seals;
(4) Receipt, dispatch, osmpilatiem and sustedy
of efficial documents;
(5) Acceumts and accoumt audit;
(6) Centrel of state properties meceseary to
cermy out administratioms
(7) Administrative inspectiem;
(8) In additiem to these listed in the pre-
ceding items, such respensibilities of
the Patent Ageney as are net in the eharge
of ether divisions ef the Exhibitiem
House.
(Funetions of General Affairs Division)
Article 57. The General Affairs 1visien shall, in
connection with the respensibilities of the
Patent Agency, take charge of the follewing
affairs:
(1) Guidance and encouragement concerming
invention, utility medels, designs and
trade marks;
(2) Research and statistics;
(3)
Cellection, compilation and publication of
data foi a gazette and othors;
(4) Patemt attermeys;
(42)

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.95)
rights and ether affaire
industrial preperty (exmh
under the charge of other
(6) Liaises.
(Functiems of First Exaninaties Bivislem)
Article 58. The First Pctent Divisien
charge of the follewing affairee
putting in order ond custedy 
applications for industrial pre
and ether affairs concerning 
(2)
Registratien in crigimal beeks ef in
trial preperty, delivery ef patent
ficates and registraties cartificates
reseipt of patent and registratien fems
and ether affairs cemoeraing inmstrial
property;
(3)
Examination ef designs and trade marks.
(Fumctions of tho Sucond Examinatien Bivisien)
Artiele 59. The Sccond Exauivation Division shall
take charge er uffairs ccncerning examinatiem
ef invention and utility medels regarding
acquirement and processing of forestry,
agricultural, live-stook, maritime and mineral
products and other reseurces, utilisation. of
metive pewer, trancportation, comwunications,
censtructien, daily mecessities. etc.
(Functiens of Judgemont Division)
Article 60. The Judgement Bivisien shall take charge
of affairs concerning juigement amd trial en
appeal en industrial preperty.
Part 3.
Auxiliary Orgams
(43)

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.95)
(mxhibitien House)
Article 6l. In addition to these previded for in
Article 63, the Patent Agency shall have, as
its auxiliary organ, the Exhibitien House.
Article 62. The Exhibitien House shall be am ergan
to take charge of the folledng affaires
(1) Celluct:on and exhibition of semples and
minittures concerning inveatiom, utility
medolo, designs and trade marks;
(2) Collection, custody and making available
for pullic por pal of books, dooumests and
othor sccscary beoks concerning emmima-
tion, judgoment, und trial en appeal;
2. The Exhibiticn House shall be establisbed in
Tekye-To.
3. The interral crganization of the Exhibition
House ahall be pivvided by Ministry of Internar
tienal Trade and Industry Ordinamse.
(Other Auiliary Organ)
Article 63. The organs entered in the left coluam
of the folloing table shall be. these establised
as auxili crg or the Patent Agency, their
purpose toins given in the right columm.
Nore
Purpose
Invention
To study and doliberate,
Encouragement
on matters cencerming
Couneil
encouragement of inven-
tion, utility models er
designs
Patent Attorney
Te make decision en the
Disciplimary
dimsipline ef patent
Committee
atterneys
(44)

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
Patent Attorney
To hold examination for
Examination
patent attorynays
Committee
Patent Compensation
To decide on the amount
Committee
of indemmity for expro-
priation, eto..of
patent rights
Patent Period
To déliberate and make
Extension
decision on appliestions
Committee
for extension of duration
of periods of patent rigti
2. The organisation, responsibilities and member
and other personnel of the audliary organs 
mentioned in the preceding paragraph shall be
provided for by Cabinet order unless otherwise
provided for by law (inoluding orders issued
thereunder) separately.
Section 4.
Smaller Enterprise Agenty
(Smaller Enterprise Ageney)
Article 64. The orgenization, responsibilitiee and
powera of the Smaller Enterprise Ageney shall
be as provided for in the Smaller Enterprise
Agency Establishement Law.
Chapter IV
Personnel
(Personnel)
Article 65. With respect to personnel of the
Ministry of Internetionel Trade and Industry.
the provisione of ra Nationcl Public Serviee
Law (Law No. 120 of 1947) shall apply.
(45)

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.96)
(raaed Samber)
Mcle 66. The fixed mumber of personnel for the
Kinistry of International Trade and Imdustry
shall be provided for by law separately.
Chapter V
Kodan (Government
Corporation)
(Kodan)
Artialy 67. The Kodan coming under the jurisdietion
of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry
asball be as folloss:
Soltd Fuel Listribution Eodan
Industrial Reconstruction Kodan
Foreigm Trade Kodan
2. With rggard to the Solid Fuel Distribution Ko
Kodan, Industrial Reconstruction Kodan and the
the Foreign Trade Kodan the Solid Puel
Distribution Kodan Law (Lew No. 53 of 1947),
Industrial Reconstruction Kodan Law (Lew
No. 57 of 1947), and by the Poreign Trade
Kodan Law (Law No. 58 of 1947) shall apply
respeetively.
Supplementary Provisions:
1. This Law shall come into foree as from May
25, 1949.
2. The following Lawe and Ordinences shall be
abolished, Howover, unless otherwise preseribed
by Law (including crcurs icsued thereunder), the
organs existing  retof re and personnel there-
of shall become the corresponding orgens and
personnel under this Law and shall retain their
respective identities unless otherwise notified.
(46)

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.98)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Ministry of Conmerce and Indaste
(Imperial Ordinance No. 486 of 145)
Regulation governing the Organization
of the Board of Trade
(Imperial Ordinance No. 203 of 1945)
Ordinance concerning Production of Buthanol
and Acetone by the Alcoi:ol Division of the
Fuel Bureau
(Imperial Ordinance No. 821 of 1942)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Bureau of Commerce and Industry
(Imperial Ordinance No. 1 of 1946)
Board of Coal Establishment Law
(Law No. 40 of 1948)
Regulation governing the Urganisation
of the Temporary Local Office for the
Increased Production of Coal
(Imperial Or 1nance No. 706 of 1945)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Board of Patent
(Imperial Ordinance No. 518 of 1945)
Regulation governing Establishment of
Temporary Personnol, etc. in the Minia-
try of Commeree and Industry
(Imperial Ordinance o. 487 of 1945)
Ordinance concerning Establishnont
of Gommittee for the Control and
Rationalization of Import and Industry
(Imperial Ordinance No. 159 or 1937)
Rules for Smaller Commercial or Industrial
Enterprise Fund Accommodation Loss Com-
pensation Committee
(Imperial Ordinance No. 107 of 1938)
(47)

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.98)
Regalation governing the Organisstios
of the Electric Power Couneil
(Imperial Ordinance No. 369 of 1998)
Reguletion governing the Organisation
of the Electric Power Adjustment Cosmistee
(Imperial Ordimanos No. 730 of 1999)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Goods and Materials Utilisation
Ccmmittee
(Imperial Ordinanee No. 839 of 1939)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Mining Industry Evaluation
Committee
(Imperial Ordinance No. 187 of 1943)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Rolled Steel Committee
(Imperial Ordinance No. 570 of 1943)
Regulation governing the Organisation
of the Copper Special Collection
Committee
(Imperial Ordinance No. 602 of 1943)
Regulation governing tho Organization
of the Enterprise Reorganization
Mutual Aid Fund Adjustment Committee
(Imperial Ordinance No. 168 of 1946)
3. The provisions of the proviso of the pre-
ceding paragraph shall not effect the applioation
of the provisions of the law concerning the
fixed number of personnel.
4. "Under the provisions of Article 3.
paragraph 2, of the National Government
Organization Law (Law No. 120 of 1948)"
in Article 3 paragraph 1 and "under the
provisions of Article 3 paragraph 2 of
the National Government Organization Law"
(48)

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.96)
in Article 29 shall read "in aceend
the Natienal Gevermment Organisation Lawe
5. In Article 28, "sub-branch effices ef the
Regienal Bureau ef Imtermatienal Trade and
Industry for the time being" aball reed,
umtil July 31, 1949, "branch effioes of the
Regienal Bureau ef Imternatienal Trade and
Lndustry."
6. Netwithstanding the provisiens of Artiole
156 paragraph 4 of the Lecal Autenomy Law
(Law No. 67 of 1947), the Minister of Inter-
mational Trade and Industry may, if inevi-
table, establish sub-branch effices ef the
Regienal Bureau of International Trade and
Lndustry hefore ebtaining appreval of the
Biet.
7. The Prime Minister shall, when the Mimis-
ter ef Intersationel Trade and Industry has
established eub-branch offices of the Regienel
Bureau of Internatienal Tradc and Industry
under the previsien of the proceding paragraph,
obtain apprevel of the Diet for the said.
establishment at the first peesiem of the
Diet after the said estatlishment. In case
the appreval has net been obtained, the
Mimister of Intarnatienal Trade and Industry
shall, without delay, abolish the said bramch
offices of the Bureau of Iatornatiomal Trade
and Industry.
Misister ef Finance IKEDA, Hayate
Minicter of Agriculture
and Ferestry
MORI, Ketare
Minister ef Concorco
ind Industry
INAGAKI, Heitare
Prime Minister
YOSHIDA, Shigeru
(49)

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.98)
PORM NO.A
SECRET
TO
8/A - Mr. Jessup
DATE: August 23, 1949
FROM
SUBJECT: Ryukyus
U.S. administration of Ryukyu has been and continues to
be so badly guided by ambiguous policy pronouncements, so
inadequately supported by higher commands, and so ineptly
managed by Military Government itself that the Ryukyuane are
becoming increasingly articulate in their desire to return
to Japanese rule.
The task of overcoming this popular mood and of maintain-
1ng a friendly and loyal civil population will always be
extremely costly and administratively diffioult, hence the
first reoommendation 1s to:
(1) Review the NSC policy decision to retain the
Ryukyus, by exploring the possibilities of
securing our strategic 1nterests there while
returning "sovereignty" to Japan.
8
6
If this 1s not feasible on military gounds, then the basio
recommendation 1s to:
(2) Encourage Ryukyuane to link their economic and
social developmenta w1th Japan's, end revise
policy statemente accordingly.
But in either case, it will be necessary to carry out
2349
1mmediate reforms in the Military Government establiahment,
as follows:
(3)
Request the Department of the Army to attach
the rank of Major General to the Office of
executive head of Ryukyu Military Government,
and to allow the Department of State some
voice in the selection and indoctrination of
the incumbent.
(4)
Approach Army directly to bring about immediate
reforme in conditions concerning native govern-
ment, land, security of person, economics and
finance.
And,
SECRET

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.96)
SECRET
-2-
And,
(5)
Utilize the opportunity afforded by examina-
tion of GARIOA and EROA budgets to improve
Military Government's personnel, planning and
operations.
It 1s planned to act on (1) at a later date. Mean-
while, a "Draft Directive from the Joint Chiefs of Staff
to Commander-in-Chief, Far East, for Military Government
of the Ryukyu Ialands" has been sent 1nformally to and
discussed with the Undersecretary of the Army. This
draft incorporetes the substance of recommendation (2)
through (5). Some of the suggested reforms will probably
be undertaken without further action by State. Those not
acted upon will be pressed by State when the Army Under-
secretary returns from his projected trip to Japan.
AMUAUSAON AI LANGL
A
AUG N :1949
DEFARTMENT OF SIATE
cc: NA - Mr. Hemmendinger
110
FE:DLoliver:kec
8/73/49
SECRET

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.88)
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
OF THE
UNITED STATIES OF AMERICA
offe of the U. S. Political Advir
for Japan
80
P September 17. 1949
894.01/9-1749
RE
Aefored to Dek
SEF
eTW
File
Corn
et cetera
inal Trade and
I.T. Piretaried ade
: to refer to this
'Organization and
rat and Industry," in
ir to the enactment
Actrichangd
Indu stry Establishment
ay 24 1949). Enclosed
HBS
fflal Gazette for
f various ordinances
men'at  of the aw.
Quclostocom
 sed decuments will
Fi 's reference des-
little to dispel
AC/R-00149
3x
i - mhaco
1 ~ 051
sal
)1012149.
12RB.
m4
Xot: 0.48y ho.
894.01
sare efalso
Ni 0 1958
5:0.1
EGSeidensticker, Jr :lee
UNCLASSIFIED
ACTION'COPY
RETURN TO DG/R PILES WITHIN 14 DAY& WITE A NOTATION OP
