894.602 Industrial Matters., Japan, Monopolies. Concessions. Franchise. Contracts. Bounties. Subsidies. Cartels. Where Practicable, Concession, Ect., Are Classified Under Their Specific Subjects., August 25, 1949 - December 27, 1949 (File 1829)
ID: 894.602-1829   Pages: 93   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.602-industrial-matters-japan-6
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: August 25, 1949
SUBJECT: Japanese Deconcentration
PARTICIPANTS: r. C. Murray Bernhardt
IR - Mr. Fassberg
COPIES TO: IR - Mr. Dixon
Mr. Bernhardt, Counsel for the House Judiciary Committee (Celler
Committee, which is currently invetigating Committee monopoly in the
United States) telephoned me this afternoon. He requested a copy of the
report prepared by the Deconcentration Review Board in Japan covering
its activities regarding the Japanese deconcentration program.
I told him that the report which was being transmitted to the
Department had not yet arrived and that when it did I would make
several copies available to him for use by the Committee in connection
with this investigation.
r. Bernhardt closed by stating that r. Celler would undoubtedly
be very interested in the report and the progress of deconcentration in
Japan and that the information contained therein would be helpful to the
Committee in considering the problem of monopoly in the United States.
IR:HEFassberg:prg

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
Jp
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Memorandum of Conversation
DATE: June 20, 1949
SUBJECT:
Japanese Deconcentration
PARTICIPANTS:
E - Mr. Thorp
E - Mr. Dort
OFD - Mr. Barnett
IR - Mr. Dixon
COPIES TO:
●●
1-1408
The discussion concerned the proposal made in the attached memoranda
and the background given therein. Mr. Thorp agreed that the present
situation was highly undesirable. He realized that it might eventually
stimulate Congressional investigation and recognized the undesirable
effects on the political situation in Japan. However, he did not feel
that the proposal to send two men to Japan for the purpose of reviewing
the position of the Fair Trade Commission was the answer. He felt that
it would have little chance of success in view of the number of missions
previously dispatched on this subject, and that if we could sell the
idea we would likely end up with the wrong type of men. He sadd he would
be willing to take the matter up with Webb or Acheson but would do so
only on the basis of a specific proposal meriting good chance of success.
He said he would think about the matter further and requested that
some papers be left with him. We said that we would get to him a back-
ground memorandum for this purpose. He also promised to talk to Butter-
worth on the problem.
Mr. Thorp said that he would take up the matter of FE's interpretation
of NSc 13/2 relative to requests for information directed to SCAP when
a specific case was presented to him.
IR:RCDixon:osm
6-23-49

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
E - Mr. Thorp
DATE: June 10, 1949
FROM
ITP - Mr. Martin
SUBJECT:
Significant Developments in Japanese Deconcentration Policy
During the past week there have been two developments in this
field which I feel should be brought to your immediate attention.
1. Amendments relaxing principal provisions of the antitrust
law, originally prepared by the Deconcentration Review Board, have
been passed by the Diet.
2. Mr. Walter Hutchinson, member of the Deconcentration Reviow
Board, has been appointed by SCAP to review the Japanese antitrust
statute and related laws in order to recommend revisions to make
these laws consistent with "fundamental antitrust principles".
These developments are the most recent in a chain of events
which indicate how our policy on Japanese deconcentration is being
set adrift.
In view of the importance of this trend, Dixon (IR) and I
would appreciate an opportunity to discuss this matter with you at
an early date. It may be desirable for the Webb Committee to review
this whole situation.
Activities of the Deconcentration Review Board
1. You will recall that the Deconcentration Review Board
was sent to Japan a year ago by the Army. A report submitted to the
Army by Mr. Hutchinson at the beginning of this year, summarising
the activities of the DRB, led us to believe that the Board's
efforts were being directed to minimizing the action taken under
the Japanese Deconcentration Law. Subsequent reports showing the
small number of deconcentration actions approved by the DRB in which
corporate reorganizations have been involved have borne out this
belief. Our latest information is that a total of five (out of a
potential 325) have been authorized.
2. Mr. Hutchinson's report recommended weakening the provisions
of the Antitrust Law passed by the Diet in 1947. His recommendations
overlooked the fact that the main purpose of the law was to prevent
re-emergence of a short-run deconcentration program. Changes
1531
substantially identical to these recommendations were subsequently
introduced in the Diet and are the ones that have now been approved
by that body. They will go into effect on June 15.
E- Mr. Thorp
Assistant Secrotary
3. Mr. Hutchinson
for Eoonomio Affairs
JUN 1 3 1949
CONFIDENTI
Department of State

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
3. Mr. Hutchinson's report also recommended that a qualified
antitrust lawyer be sent to Japan to review the need for changes
in the Antitrust Law and similar statutes. Upon request of the
Army, the Department of Justice offered the services of an
officer of the Antitrust Division, but the offer was never acted
upon. Now we learn that Mr. Hutchinson, who was instrumental
in securing the recent weakening of the law and who originated the
recommendation for such a review, has himself obtained the appointment.
It is presumed that his activities will be directed partly to any
further revisions of the antitrust law that he deems desirable
and partly to the review of related laws, such as the Bankruptey
and Incorporation Laws.
Previous ITP Action
1. Early in February we addressed to you a memorandum analysing
the Hutchinson reports in some detail and expressing our concern
both on the principles under which the DRB has operated in passing
upon deconcentration actions, and on the proposed amendments to the
antitrust law. We attached a draft letter to the Army proposing
certain remedial action. In your absence these documents were
referred to FE. FE replied in March to the effect that our points
were largely of a technical rather than policy nature and that
it would be undesirable to interfere with the "shaking down"
process proceeding in Japan in connection with the reform programs.
2. Early in April we forwarded a further memorandum to E,
directed ultimately to the Under Secretary, restating the basic
issues. Primary emphasis was placed on the long-run legislation
rather than on the deconcentration phase. This was done for tactical
reasons, owing to the impending conclusion of the DRB assignment.
This new approach was subsequently also referred to FE by Mr. Nitse
and to date we have heard nothing further.
pen
ITP:IR:RCDixon:osm
6-8-49
(Barnett)
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.99)
1310
Office Memorandumt
E- Mr. Thorp
MAY18 1949
TO
E. - Paul H. Nitze
DATE:
May 17, 1949
Departsent of State
FROM :
ITP- Edwin M. Martin
SUBJECT:
Pending Amendments of the Japanese Anti-trust Law and the Eoonomic
Stabilization Program
You will recall that on April 15, there was submitted to you a
memorandum dealing with pending amendments of the Japanese Anti-trust
law. At that time we expressed our concern over any material
weakening of this legislation particularly as exemplified in a number
of amendments which have been presented to the Diet by the Japanese
Government.
In view of the very limited success which the short-run deconcen-
tration program under the direction of the Deconcentration Review Board
has achieved, we have taken the position that an effective anti-trust
law must be implemented if there is to be a free competitive Japanese
industrial organization. This conviction has been reenforced as a
result of the adoption of the policy which has been worked out by the
Dodge Mission calling for the stabilization of the Japanese economy.
This policy, we understand, contemplates as one of its objectives
increasing Japanese industrial efficiency. This is to be achieved by
rationalization and more efficient utilization of the existing indus-
trial capacity by the concentration of oroduction in the most efficient
enterprises. It is expected that many Japanese firms will thus be
eliminated; estimates reported to have been made by the Economic
Stabilization Board (ESB) in icate that it may run to over 50%. This
will probably result in relatively few but powerful enterprises in
most fields of economic activity.
It is not my intention, of course, to criticize this program in
any way. Rather, I wish to point out a situation which will probably
result from this policy and thus underscore the position we have taken
regarding the Japanese anti-trust law. Inasmuch as this policy should
be rather effectively implemented through rigid allocation of available
raw material supplies and because the program may be expected to continue
for several years, it is anticipated that there will be a greater danger
that the pre-war pattern of industrial organization may reemerge.
As a consequence, it is doubly important that the anti-trust
legislation remain effective so as to meet this new and unforseen situation.
Moreover, the Japanese public should be made aware of our determination
to enable them to develop a free competitive economy while they, at the
same time, move forward with an effective stabilization program. To
achieve this, it is essential, as we indicated in our previous mejorandum,
that the Department review any material changes in the basic anti-trust
legislation which may be adopted.
Ry
ITP:IR:HFFassberg:prg
5-17-49

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
Office Memorandum
MAR 3 1949
TO
E - Mr. Thorp
RCD
FROM
IR - Mr. Dixon
SUBJECT:
Japanese Deconcentration
It has become apparent that there must be a resolution
at top level at this time of the question whether the program
for the deconcentration of Japanese industry is to be vigorously
prosecuted to a successful conclusion, or is to be so retrenched
as to jeopardize the progress in this field which has already
been achieved.
This issue has been precipitated by the return from Japan
of Mr.Walter Hutchinson, a member of the Deconcentration Review
Board and the submission by him to the Army of two reports
entitled "Report on Japanese Public Law No. 54" and "Report and
Summary of the Activities of the Deconcentration Review Board
and the Deconcentration Program in General." These reports have
been forwarded to the Department for its views, and two replies
(attached) have been prepared which are at almost complete
variance with each other. The letter to Mr. Draper prepared in
FE approves and supports in their entirety the two reports and
their recommendations. On the other hand, the letter which we
have drafted, while agreeing with a number of points in the
reports, takes issue with the central position advanced therein,
which in our opinion would basically prejudice the deconcentration
program and has already impaired it. In addition, we disagree
with a number of Mr. Hutchinson's recommendations for revision
of the Japanese Antitrust Law. Our views on these matters are
spelled out fully in the memorandum attached to our draft letter
to Mr. Draper. Our recommendations for action are contained at
the end of the memorandum.
You will recall that at the time a proposal for something like
a Deconcentration Review Board was first advanced by the Army
last spring, our position was that no such mission was necessary,
and that Secretary Marshall supported us in this view. However,
the present group was finally sent to Japan after a specific
request had been received from General MacArthur. Owing to the
circumstances surrounding the decision to send the Board, we
were at that time very apprehensive of the results, and I think
you will agree that the present situation has thoroughly borne
out that concern. Prior to receipt of the Hutchinson reports
we have from time to time taken a stand against the trend shown
by
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.99)
CONFIDENTIAL
-2-
by the Deconcentration Review Board, as occasioned by the receipt
of brief reports from Tokyo. However, we have been unable to
influence this trend, owing to the united opposition of FB and
the Army.
In addition to prejudicing the program itself, the present
situation can have additional. far-reaching consequences of an
undesirable nature. As you may knew, a thorough-going investiga-
tion of German deconcentration and decartelisation is being
developed in the Senate and will probably soon be in full swing.
It seems to me inevitable that, if the present trend towards
diluting, if not actually abandoning, the deconcentration
philosophy continues, the spotlight will be swung to that area.
A second factor of great importance is the recent increase
in both Communist and extreme conservative strength in Japan.
The reasons for this growth are undoubtedly complex and are
unassignable to any one factor. However, I feel that it would
be extremely unfortunate if, through a reversal of our policy on
deconcentration, we should contribute to the conviction on the
part of the Japanese that we are not sincere in our previously-
publicized intent to establish a liberal and democratic system
in Japan. Once this conviction is firm, it would seem certain
that the swing in the political field away from moderation to
both extremes would be accelerated.
I strongly recommend, therefore, that if you agree with
our conclusions, you take steps to have our letter and the attached
memorandum forwarded to the Army as the Department's position.
I realise that in this matter we must act within the
confines of NSC-13/2. I refer specifically to paragraph 12
of that document. I believe, however, that the recommendations
for action contained in our memorandum to the Army are fully
consistent with the requirements of that document.
ITP:IR:RCDixon:osm
Cleared with: ITP - Mr. Martin
2-18-49
OFD - Mr. Barnett
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENT.AL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON, D. C.
16 January 1948
A-S
JAN 17 1948
MA. SALTZMAN
Honoraple Charles E. Saltzman
Assistant Secretary of State for Occupied Areas
Washington, D. C.
Dear Charlie:
I inclose some suggestions concerning
the proposed statement of "Policy on
Excessive Concentrations of Economic Power
in Japan".
There may be some other points I
shall want to discuss, but I am sending
these along to save time.
Sincerely,
thangon
Gordon Gray
Assistant Secretary of the Army
CORIDENIAL
4439

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.97)
CONETENT AI
A-S
COMMENTS ON PROPOSED "POLICY ON EXCESSIVE
JAN 17 1948
CONCENTRATIONS OF ECONOMIC POWER IN JAPAN
MR. RALTEMAN
The following comments and suggestions relate to the indicated paragraphs in
the draft discussed in the office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army,
Saturday, 10 January 1948:
2. In view of the vagueness of the words "restricts", "impairs" and
"opportunity" it would probably be helpful if we could state that only
in extraordinary circumstances would units representing less than a
specified percentage of the market be dissolved. The percentage to be
specified should be recommended by the people who know the Japanese
situation. Five per cent is too small.
Does "any important segment of business" refer to the competitive
situation in Japan as a whole or is this intended to assure competition
in each geographical area? The former seems to be more practical.
3.
To reflect the consideration of public utilities in Sec. 8(b); i.e.,
"enterprises such as public utilities which do not lend themselves to
competitive operation," suggest adding "or service to the public" after
the words "operating efficiency" in the first sentence of this section.
4.
Suggest: "All excessive concentrations of economic power (both finan-
cial and non-financial) not referred to in paragraph 3 should be
effectively separated, to the extent the characteristics of their
physical properties permit, into individual enterprises which will be
independent of each other..."
Ro
Is the wording in 4b. needlessly strict when it says: "be divested of
any securities which they may hold in other concerns,.."?
Subparagraph 4c. seems to forbid the very kind of arrangements which
have been found to be necessary in this country; i.e., where monopolies
70.
have been dissolved under the Sherman Act, the courts have required the
monopolist to assist the development of competing units by giving tech-
nical aid and by supplying experienced personnel.
6. Is it intended that companies will not be indemnified? In splitting up
a large unit, care should be taken that the unit is not so divested of
no
its properties that it cannot continue as an effective competitor of the
new units created.
8. The deletion of the word "overriding" in line 2, paragraph 8(a) would
not change the meaning but would remove a needless implication of ruth-
lessness.
4439

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.98)
CUNFIDENTIAL
superfluous. Paragraph ll (c) first sentence would be less oratorical
and mean the same thing if the words "all vestiges of" were aliminated.
14. To protect the incentive to invent, would it not be wise to add a.
taker.cau
second sentence: "Patents for a limited period of years should be
permitted, however, as long as the patent holder does not thereby
achieve an economic power disproportionate to that of competitors in
the field."
17. This section appears to be extremely general. If it refers to specific
conditions in Japan for which a remedy is needed, it should be made
more specific or the section should be eliminated.
18.
This section adds nothing to the document as a statement of policy, tells
SCAP something which SCAP is in a position to know even better than people
in Washington, and yet implies a desire for a "propaganda" campaign which rθ.
is likely to be misunderstood by Congress and the American people. The
section might well be eliminated.
CONFN
4439

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.99)
DATE: December 20, 1948
TO
: OFD - r. Robert Barnett
FROM : IR - Raymond Vernon
RV
SUBJECT:
In accordance with our understanding regarding the use of
NSC 13/2 to prevent necessary communications between the Department
and SCAP, the following paragraphs are submitted to you for such use
as you may wish to make of them:
1. On November 23, 1948, USPCLAD, Tokio informed the Department by
Airgram that the text, of proposet amendments concerning the Anti-trust
legislation prepared by the Fair Trade Conmission had been submitted
to 3CAP ani that in all probability these proposals, when approved,
would soon be submitted to the Diet. Information appearing in the
Press also referrei to proposals prepared by the Commission which
contemplates the revision of the present anti-trust legislation.
It was felt that nore information on the nature of the proposed
changes would be desirable and, in fact, necessary for the Department
if it should prove necessary to offer guidance to the Department
of the Army and SCAP on this problem. At the Department's request,
USPOLAD atten pted to obtain a copy of the proposed amendments from
SCAP's staff but was unsuccessful. Accordingly, on December 15, a
request for information was drafted to be transmitted by Army to SCAP.
This request simply indicated that we would appreciate receiving any
information in this regard and the text of any proposed revisions.
This draft cable, has been held up by NA on the grounds that the
request for information would violate NSC 13/2.
2. After General McCoy's statement in the FFC on Thursday, December 9,
regarding Japanese deconcentration, a cable was prepared for transmission
to SCAP requesting that this policy statement be given wide-spread
publicity in Japan ani used for policy guidance in future deonncentration
activities. This cable was initiated in order that the purpose of the
statement, as conceived in E and set out in a memorandum from Mr. Vernon
to ir. Nitze, dated September 17, might be achieved; that purpose was to
avoid the likelihood of getting the FEc to adopt or approve a statement
unacceptable to the Uniteu States and to dispose of Japanese misgivings
that the deconcentration program was being abandoned. This cable too, has
also been held up by NA partially on the grounds that it is violative
of NSC 13/2.
3. We submitted to NA a draft State-Army policy cn the treatment of
Japanese trade-marks, which contained a recommendation on the disposition
of the trade-marks of Japanese firms or related groups of firms being re-

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
constituted into two or more independent enterprises. This recommendation
had been worked out with the Army and had the strong endorsement of scar.
However, Mir. Bishop took the position that we were prohibited by
NSC 13/2 from making any recommendation cn this subject which would
involve a directive to the Japanese Government. The Japanese, he said,
should be allowed to take the initiative in instituting the action,
apparently withcut being tolu in any manner that it was a necessary or
desirable step. After considerable fruitless discussion involving extensive
delay, we finally managed to hit on a formula which was acceptable to
NA but which does somewhat restrict SCAP's ability to apply the provision
by directive.
The position taken by NA on this matter is especially remarkable
when considered in the light of the fact that it approved without
qualification considerably more detailed recommendations relating to
misleading and decetive trale-marks and to unfair methods of competition.
These other recommendations would slso require directives from SCAp to
the Japanese Government, and they are definitely "reform measures" within
the meaning of y3C 13/2.
ITP:Ih:HFassberg:prg
12-20-48

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.98)
pl rete
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWER
R. Verman rn 409
COMOMIC AND SCIENTIFIC SEOTION
APO 500
24 Ootober 1947
Mr. Raymond Vernon
Assistant Chief,
International Resources Division
Department of State
Washington, D. C.
Dear Ray:
Zaitaton
Tour letter of 9 October 1947 gave me additional insight regarding the
difference of policy opinion which exists in Washington regarding the de-
concentration problem here in Japan. Frankly, I believe that the main
obstacles to clarification of this situation are twofold: (1) lack of
knowledge and understanding of the concentration which exists in Japan
and (2) unvillingness of some people to express clearly the reasons for
their desire to prevent a breakup of the big combines in Japan.
We have attempted here to approach the problem from a very practical
point of view. We know the nature of the combines md the extent of their
control, and we also recognize the elimination of the Zaibatsu families
from active participation in business amd the dissolution of the top held-
ing companies is only another portion of the program if concentrations are
really to be broken up. If we stop at that point. the structure of ac-
tual combination and control over the major portion of Japanese indastry
and commerce will have been left intact for either the return of the
Zaibatsu or the nationalisation or acquisition of control by the wealthy
black market operators. In handling this situation, we have establiahed
standards which require careful checking into whether or not a particular
reorganization of a combine would have adverse affects on production. So
far, we have found many factual illustrations in which it can be shown
that reorganization in accordance with our standards would result in de-
creased costs and improved management in the production of the basic com-
modities in this economy. In no instance has anyone been able to show that
reorganization of companies in accordance with our standards would result
in a decrease of one ton of coal, or one yard of textiles, etc.
Your reference to the necessity for "certain sacrifices . . . . in your
HCLC Ordinance" was confusing. First of all, let me make it clear that
we are not issuing a HCLC Ordinance for deconcentration of these operating
combines. Rather, the document which we prepared has been spproved by
the Cabinet amd is currently before the Diet to be passed as a Japanese
law. As such it is completely constitutional, allows for the same fudicial
review in court ection as any other constitutional law, and still the
actions taken will be under the direct supervision of this Division through
PERSONAL

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
its eentrel ever the MoL0. It would be disastrous to the deseméemtrass
pregram and would certaialy be very dameging to the whole prestige
Oscupation if there were any actien which would prevent prestieal
tien ef this new law in accordance with the standarde whick we have w
very carefally in light of the actual preductien situatien here in Jae
I have been working at a rate of approximately eighty hours a week and.
consequently, will use that as an explanation for my failure te keep 
better exchange of discussion and in'ormation regarding what is taking
place. I assure you that the situation is exceedingly diffioult me alse
that we continue to make some significant progress. I believe it te be
aecurate to say that we prebably cam handle the deconcentration ef the
most significant combinations provided that we are alloved to do se. Again,
I appreciate your letter and I hope that you will comtimme to keep me imfermed.
as I am intensely interested.
Sincerely.
6d
EDWARD C. WELSN
Chief, Antitrust and Cartels Division
PESONAL
2

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
Cue Ra
MEMORANDUM
TO:
BP - Roger C. Dixon
FROM:
BP - H.E. Fassberg
SUBSECT: Japanes Shipping
I am inclined to confirm your impression of General Fleming's letter
to General McArthur on the subject of Japanese shipping. I say inclined
because the letter is much more forceful to the point of beligerency and
in this sense is worse than his previous one. On the other hand, by
extending his remarks, General Fleming has revealed weaknesses in accuracies
and/or errors which should make an effective rebuttal that much easier.
In referring to weaknesses in the argument, I have in mind
the positions taken regarding the alleged lack of judicial standards
to guide the implementation of the law and the general discussion of
the activities of shipping conferences. With respect to the question of legal
standards, it is, I think, fairly obvious that the Japanese legislation is as
specific or perhaps even more so than the anti-trust legislation which the
courts interpret and implement in this country. Moreover, a degree
of generality is essential and in keeping with Anglo-American jurisprudence,
so that the law may remain applicable to changing circumstances.
In connedtion with the discussion of shipping conferences, General
Fleming seems to have set up a straw-man so that he can more easily
destroy it. Nowhere in his "desertation" does hes discusm the problem
of rebates and the other undesirable practices which shipping conferences;
particularly in Japan are wont to employ. Nobody argues with the General

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
thetconferences may set rates, establish schedules and do those things
which perhaps improve shipping services for a country. We do object, however,
to their exclusivity and discriminatory operation as against independent
shippers. In this connection, I think the General treats in a very
cavalier fashion, the difficulties which the Marine Commission is currently
having with the anti-trust law. I should have thought that honesty
would have compell d him to state that the matter has reached the courts
and that a judicial determination is expected on the problem of the
applicability of anti-trust legislation to the shipping industry.
In a sense, therefore, the letter is worse, but in its "worseness"his
case is apodictically weaker.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.96)
DO NOT DETACH THIS FORM
FILE NO.
894.602/8-2549
RECORD COPY
DESP.
THE ATTACHED COPY OF A DESPATCH  TELEGRAM  AIRGRAM
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED THE RECORD COPY TO REPLACE THE ORIGINAL
576 FROM TOKYO
ACTION COPY WHICH WAS NOT RETURNED TO THE CENTRAL RECORDS BY
THE ACTION OFFICE.
THIS COPY MUST BE RETURNED TO DC/R FOR FILING.
APR 18 1950
FILED
7
M-184
11-9-88

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
DC/R
Office of the U. S. Political Adviser
for Japan
Tokyo, August 25, 1949
REC 'D
SEPT.3
No. 576
ACTION
OFD
CONFIDENTIAL - (FOR DEPARTMENT USE ONLY)
INFO
FR
DCR
ITP
Subject: Survey of Economic Deconcentration Program in Japan.
FE
OLI
The Honorable
The Secretary of Statef
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Department's airgram instruc-
tion no. 119 of July 20, 1949, requesting information on industrial
reorganization pursuant to the provisions of the Law for Removal of
Excessive Concentrations of Economic Power (Law no. 207 of 1947), and
to this Mission's despatches no. 344 of May 26, 1949, "Testimony of
Mr. Walter Hutchinson before Far Eastern Commission;" no. 423 of
June 30, 1949, "Request of Chinese Member, Allied Council for Japan;
for Information Regarding Reorganization of Tokyo Shibaura Electric
Company;" and no. 533 of August 6, 1949, "SCAP Press Release Announ-
cing Completion of Work of Deconcentration Board."
The economic deconcentration program, as was noted in the press
release forwarded with this Mission's despatch no. 533, is entering
its final stages insofar as proposed or final reorganization orders,
or releases from designation, have been tranamitted to all except ll
of the 325 companies originally designated under the Deconcentration
Law. It would be inaccurate to conclude, however, as has the Japanese
press, that the deconcentration program is ended. Of the companies
ordered to reorganize into successors, only one, the Oji Paper Manu-
facturing Company, has completed its reorganization, and even in that
case, the successor companies continue to occupy office space in the
same building and to maintain close liaison. Moreover, the important
cases of the Japan Express Company (Nippon Tsuun K.K.), the Japan
Power Generation and Transmission Company (Nippon Hassoden K.K.), and
the nine regional power distribution (haiden) companies remain to be
acted upon.
This Mission's despatch no. 423 forwarded a copy of a letter from
this Office in its capacity as Diplomatic Section, General Headquarters,
SCAP, to the Chinese Member of the Allied Council for Japan, which let-
1.60218-2549
ter outlined the status of the deconcentration program as of June 17,
1949. In the meantime, action has been taken in all except the 1l cases
noted above. The latter cases will require special action on the part
of
Rrom.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
-2.-
of the Japanese Government, which action may be expected sometime
thi's autumn.
Of the 325 companies originally designated, 297 have been re-
leased from designation, while ll have received final orders for
reorganization, stock disposal, or the liquidation of certain assets,
and 6 have received similar proposed orders. Eleven of the proposed
and final orders may be considered as requiring reorganisation
(though, as will be seen, the classification is open to dispute);
assuming that reorganization orders will also go to the Japan Express
Company and to the power generating and distributing companies, and
treating the 10 power companies as one case (they were so treated
for purposes of the compilation noted by the Department in this Mis-
sion's despatch no. 344), a total of 13 reorganisations will result
from the deconcentration program.
Summary of Action Taken
The following companies have received final orders from the
Holding Company Liquidation Commission:
1) Japan Iron and Steel Company (Nippon Seitetsu K.K.)
2) Oji Paper Manufacturing Company (Oji Seishi K.K.)
3) Dai Nippon Beer Company (Dai.Nippon Biiru K.K.)
4) Daiken Industrial Company (Daiken Sangyo K.K.)
5) Oriental Can Company (Toyo Seikan K.K.)
6) Seika Mining Company (Seika Kogyo K.K.)
7) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Company (Mitsubishi Jukogyo K.K.)
8) Hitachi Engineering Works (K.K. Hitachi Seisakusho)
9) Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company (Tokyo Shibaura Denki K.K.)
10) Imperial Petroleum Company (Teikoku Sekiyu K.K.)
11) Japan Dynamite Company (Nippon Kayaku K.K.)
The following companies have received proposed orders:
1) Hokkaido Dairy Cooperative Company (Hokkaido Rakuno Kyodo K.K.)
2) Imperial Fiber Company (Teikoku Sen-i K.K.)
3) Mitsui Mining Company (Mitsui Kozan K.K.)
4) Mitsubishi Mining Company (Mitsubishi Kogyo K.K.)
5). Toho (Entertainment) Company (Toho K.K.)
6) Shochiku (Entertainment) Company (Shochiku K.K.)
Classified
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyois Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
-3-
Classified somewhat differently, the followdng 1l proposed and
final orders may be deemed to require reorganization in contrast with
orders requiring disposal of stock or assets: Japan Iron and Steel
Company, Dai Nippon Beer Company, Oji Paper Company, Daiken Indus-
trial Company, Oriental Can Company, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Company, Seika Mining Company, the Hokkaido Dairy Cooperative Com-
pany, Imperial Fiber Company, and the Mitsui and Mitsubishi Mining
Companies.
The latter listing is somewhat doubtful, however; it may be
argued, for instance, that the Toho case, which will result in the
separation of the Toho and Shintoho Motion Picture Companies, is in
effect an order for reorganization, while the Tokyo Shibaura order,
which requires the amalgamation of the Tokyo Shibaura Rolling Stock
Company with the main electric company, in fact requires a reorgani-
zation, although perhaps not entirely in the direction of deconcen-
tration.
Financial Institutions
Regarding the Department's request for information on the status
of the "large banks originally designated under the deconcentration
law," it should be noted that no financial institutions were so de-
signated. It is understood that at least five banks (Mitsui, Mitsu-
bishi, Sumitomo, Yasuda, and Sanwa) were being considered for desig-
nation when the Deconcentration Review Board arrived in Tokyo. On
July 30, 1948, shortly after the Board's arrival, however, it was
announced that the dissolution of the Zaibatsu holding company
structure and the enactment of the Anti-Monopoly Law had removed
any necessity for reorganizing banks or insurance companies. It is
known that the Anti-Trust and Cartels Division, Economic and Scien-
tific Section, General Headquarters, was strongly opposed to the
announcement, and it was therefore, in all likelihood, as a face-
saving device that the financial institutions were remanded to the
Fair Trade Cormission for surveillance and possible further action.
The banks have changed their names and the insurance companies have
been reorganized into mutual companies, but no further action is con-
templated, so far as this Mission is aware.
General Results of the Program
It cannot be said that the Deconcentration Program has been
either a disruptive force, or a strong force making for "industrial
democracy." Certain notorious one-company industries, notably paper,
brewing, and iron and steel smelting and manufacturing, will of
course be reformed, but the electric manufacturing industry; which
has been dominated by three companies, is almost untouched, while
the orders transmitted to the Mitsui, Mitsubishi, and Seika Mining
companies do nothing to break up concentrated holdings in specific
mining fields, notably coal. (Major General W. F. MARQUAT, Chief of
the Economic and Scientific Section, General Headquarters, has let it
be known that he suspects the Japanese coal mining companies of being
the seat of a rising new Zaibatsu system.) Moreover, the large banks
and insurance companies through which the pre-war family companies
exercised a large measure of their control have not been touched, and
the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Deapatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
the Deconcentration Review Board has frowned on orders aimed at pre-
venting them from buying back into erstwhile Zaibatsu holding com-
pany subsidiaries.
Activities of the Deconcentration Review Board
The Deconcentration Review Board has undoubtedly killed a large
number of reorganizations contemplated by the Anti-Trust and Cartels
Section; that fact, depending upon one's basic assumptions and pre-
dispositions, may be considered cause for praise or for blame. It
is noteworthy, however, that the Board has failed to act according
to any consistent philosophy or plan. It has released some companies,
such as Mitsubishi Electric, from designation, while finding lesser
competitors, such as the Hitachi Engineering Works, to be excessive
concentrations. It has occasionally rendered itself open to the sus-
picion that it is acting on behalf of special interests to promote
industrial rationalization, and it has frequently and unblushingly
violated its own four principles, which were announced with consider-
able flourish on September 11, 1948.
The first principle requires a prima facie case of restraint of
competition before a company may be found an excessive concentration;
several of its orders (see, for instance, the Hitachi order as dis-
cussed below) can be justified only on the basis of potential restraint
of trade, or the capacity to restrain trade (Mr. Walter HUTCHINsON of
the Board has stated that he knows of no way to determine such capa-
city). The second principle states that possession of non-related
lines of business activity is not to be considered sufficient evidence
that the company is an excessive concentration; the Board has on oc-
casion handed down orders which appear to be aimed at diversity of
operations rather than at predominance in any one field (see the case
of the Daiken Industrial Company below). It would be difficult to
show that the third principle, namely, that a voluntary plan need not
be considered authority for a final order, has or has not been observed,
but it may be noted that certain doubtful cases, notably that of the
Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company, have been criticized for slavish ad-
herence to the company's voluntary rationalization plan. The fourth
principle, finally, requires that the action taken under Law 207 should
be directly related to the facts upon which the company was determined
to be an excessive concentration; as will be seen in the case of the
Japan Dynamite Company below, however, orders handed down by the
Holding Company Liquidation Commission have on occasion seemed to have
little relevance to the basic finding of facts in the case.
Sunmaries of Cases upon which Action has been Taken
or may be Expected
1. Japan Iron and Steel Company (Nippon Seitetsu Kabushiki Kaisha)
The final reorganization order transmitted to the Japan Iron and
Steel Company on December 17, 1948, requires the Company to break into
two successor companies, to be known as the Yawata Iron and Steel Com-
pany and the North Japan Iron and Steel Company. . The reorganization
has not yet been executed, however, chiefly due to lingering doubts as
to the status of assets designated for reparations removals. Upon com-
pletion of the reorganization, the Yawata Company will control 41 per
cent
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
-5-
cent of the national pig iron producing capacity, 21.4 per cent of
the steel ingot capacity, and 20.8 per cent of the finished steel
capacity, while the North Japan Company will control 31.2 per cent
of the pig iron capacity, 12.6 per cent of the steel ingot capacity,
and 7.3 per cent of the finished steel capacity.
The order further provides that Japan Iron and Steel's Hirohata
Plant, generally considered the most modern and efficient in Japan,
may be sold to the North Japan Ccmpany, or otherwise disposed of; it
may not, however, be sold to the Yawata Company. The Hirohata Plant
possesses 13.7 per cent of the national capacity for pig iron, 7.8
per cent for steel ingots, and 4.4 per cent for finished steel.
In view of the fact that the Hirohata Plant has been designated
for reparations removal, no final disposition has yet been deter-
mined. It is understood that the Economic and Scientific Section,
notably Mr. Calvin O. VERITY, Deputy Chief of that Section since
August 22, 1949, favors establishing the Hirohata Plant as a separate
company. This move reportedly also has the support of Kansai steel
manufacturers, who fear the competiticn of the North Japan Company,
and of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry, which hopes
to use the plant as a lure for foreign capital.
2. Oji Paper Manufacturing Company (Oji Seishi Kabushiki Kaisha)
The final reorganization order, tranamitted to the Oji Paper
Company on January 7, 1949, required reorganization into three com-
panies, as follows: one company to receive Oji's Tomakomai mill;
one company to receive the Kushiro, Kokura, Yatsushiro, and Saka-
moto mills; and one company to receive the Fuji, Iwabuchi, and
Nakatsu mills. Six remaining paper plants and the Nagoya chemical
plants were ordered to be divided between the latter two companies.
The timber and pulp resources are to be divided among the three
companies on an equitable and ecenomical basis.
The Oji reorganization has been the only one completed under
the Deconcentration Law. The three successor companies, known as
the Tomakomai, Jujo, and Honshu Paper Manufacturing Companies, re-
spectively, have all established independent offices; the fact that
they continue to occupy office space in the Oji Building in Tokyo,
however, indicates that liaison continues to be close. The bulk of
the assets to be divided up between the two maller companies went
to the Jujo Company, with the result that it is now the second
largest paper manufacturer in Japan; the Tomakomai Company con-
tinues to be the largest, and in particular dominates the newsprint
field. The Honshu Company, much the smallest of the three, controls
approximately the same productive capacity as the Hokuetsu and
Kokusaku Paper Companies, Oji's leading competitors before the re-
organization.
An earlier proposed order, which was transmitted to the Company
in October, 1948, contemplated considerably more fragmentation than
was provided for in the final order. Based on the Company's own re-
organization plans, the former order proposed reorganization into
six successor companies. It was rejected by the Deconcentration Re-
view Board, however, and the final order conforms to the Board's
wishes. It may be noted that the final order contains considerably
1ess
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
- 6 -
less detail than did the earlier order, and is considerably less
specific in its provisions. The Deconcentration Review Board has
generally preferred to leave such details as stock subscription and
flotation, capitalization, etc., to the wishes of the company con-
cerned. It is interesting to note that a provision in the earlier
order prohibiting sale of stocks in successor companies to the
Teikoku Bank, the Mit sui Trust Company, or the Taisho Marine and
Fire Insurance Company was deleted before transmission of the final
order. The prcvision was designed to prevent the reassertion of
Mitsui influence through Mitsui financial agencies.
3. Dai Nippon Beer Company (Dai Nippon Biiru Kabushiki Kaisha)
The final crder for reorganization of the Dai Nippon Beer Com-
pany, tranamitted on January 7, 1949, requires the formation of two
successor comparies: the Nippon Biiru K.K., with Dai Nippon's
Sapporo, Kawagucli, Meguro, Nagoya, and Moji breweries, and Sapporo
and Nagano ops plants; and the Asahi Biiru Kabushiki Kaisha, with
the Azumabasi, Suita, Hakata, and Nishinomiya breweries. The Nippon
Company receives Dai Nippon's shares in the Takasaki Mining Company
and the Kyoei Mining Conpany, while the Asahi Company receives shares
in the Dai Nippon Vi: amin Pharmaccutical Company and the Asahi Mining
Company. The Hipron Glass Company, Ltd., a Dai Nippon Biiru sub-
sidiary, is crdered to dissolve, with the two successor companies to
Dai Nippon Biiru granted options on certain of its assets. The latter
provision, it is unlerstocd, is considered arbitrary by General Mac-
ARTHUR and may therefore be subject to change. In its present form,
it would give the Asahi Company 49 per cent of Nippon Glass's assets.
Upon completion of the reorganization, it is estimated that the
Nippon Biiru X.K. will have 35 per cent of Japan's brewing capacity,
and 12 per cent of the national capacity for manufacturing soft drinks.
Comparable figures for the Asahi Company will be 37 per cent and 20 per
cent, respectively. The brewing capacity of each of the successor com-
panies will continue to be somewhat larger than that of the Kirin Biiru
K.K., the only other significant brewing company in Japan. The Nippon
Garasu K.K., which has been ordered to dissolve, possesses 42.3 per
cent of the national productive capacity for glass bottles, exclusive
of those manufactured by hand.
4. Daiken Industrial Company (Daiken Sangyo Kabushiki Kaisha)
A final reorganization order was transmitted to the Daiken Indus-
trial Company on April 15, 1949; the Company is required to break up
into two successors, the manufacturing department and the trading de-
partment of the mother company each constituting a successor company.
In view of the fact that neither the manufacturing department (third-
ranking among Japanese cotton spinners) nor the trading department
occupies a monopolistic position in the Japanese economy, it is dif-
ficult to see how the Daiken reorganization order conforms to the
Deconcentration Review Eoard:s pronouncement that possession of unre-
lated lines of business is not in itself to be considered evidence of
en excessive economic concentration.
5. Oriental Can Company (Toyo Seikan Kabushiki Kaisha)
The final reorganization order transmitted to the Oriental Can
Company
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 24 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
-7-
Company on July 8, 1949, requires the establishment of "one additional
and separate company," to receive the Company's Otaru plant and appur-
tenances. The Oriental Can Company at present possesses 85.1 per cent
of Japan's capacity to produce sanitary food cans. Forty per cent of
this capacity is accounted for by the Otaru plant. Thus the new com-
pany will be Japan's second largest producer of sanitary cans after
the reorganization, while the mother company will retain about half of
the national productive capacity.
6. Seika Mining Company (Seika Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha)
The Seika (until 1946, Sumitomo) Mining Company received a final
reorganization order on August 3, 1949, requiring the establishment
of two successor companies, one to receive Seika's Besshi, Omiya, Tozawa,
Miyagi, Inaushi, Konomai, Kunitomi, Abeshiro, and Yoichi mines, Shisa-
kajima and Kunitami smelters, Niihama electrolytic refinery, and Besshi
construction, battery, and food and daily necessity departments, and
the other to receive the Company's Akahira, Kamiutashinai, Utashinai,
Honbetsu, Yayoi, Naiye, Shinutashinai, Kasuga, Karatsu, Tadakuma,
Yoshinoura, Senryu and Tomatsu Mines. The reorganization in effect
separates the metal and coal divisions of the mother company, the former
going to the first successor company described above, the latter to the
second.
The coal company will have about 4 per cent of the national pro-
ductive capacity (based on output rather than on estimated reserves),
while the metal company will have 9 per cent of the national capacity
for producing copper, 4.5 per cent for gold, and 4.6 per cent for
silver; the latter company will also have an impressive melting capa-
city: 17.3 per cent of the national capacity for producing blister
copper, 20.9 per cent for electrolytic copper, 16.4 per cent for elec-
trolytic gold, and 19.6 per cent for electrolytic silver. This hold
on the nation's non-ferrous smelting industry, somewhat more formi-
dable than the company's mining capacity, is untouched by the reorgani-
zation order.
7. Mit subishi Heavy Industries Company (Mit subishi Jukogyo Kabushiki
Kaisha)
By final order of June 4, 1949, the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries
Company is required to reorganize into three companies as follows:
one company to receive the Yokohama Shipyard, Nanao Plant, Fushiki
Plant, Tsuruga Plant, Yamanashi Plant, Koga Plant, Tokyo Works,
Kawasaki Works, and Oi Plant; one company to receive the Kobe Ship-
yard, Mihara Locomotive and Air-Brake Works, Shizuoka Engineering
Works, Kyotc Engineering Works, Nagoya Engineering Works, Mizushima
Engineering Works, Tsu Engineering Works, Komi Engineering Works, and
Ryowa Engineering Works; and the third company to receive the Naga-
saki Shipyard, Shimonoseki Shipyard, Fukuoka Plant, Hiroshima Shipyard,
Hiroshima Machine Tool Works, Nagasaki Precision Tool Works, and Kuma-
moto Engineering Works.
The position of the three successor companies in relation to
their leading rivals is difficult to judge, in view of the fact that
their enterprises spread over almost the entire field of Japanese
heavy industry. Thus, although none of the companies will possess
the
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 25 === (confidence 1.00)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
-8-
the shipbuilding capacity of Kawasaki Heavy Industries, Mitsubishi's
leading competitor, they will have impressive potentials for produe-
ing turbines, air brakes, and rolling stock. It should also be pointed
out that the three companies are predominantly producers of large ships,
Mitsubishi possessing 71.6 per cent of the national capacity to build
ships of 20,000 tons and above.
8. Hitachi Engineering Works, Ltd. (Kabushiki Kaisha Hitachi
Seisakusho)
The Hitachi Engineering Works were ordered on March 18, 1949, to
dispose of 19 plants. The order was based on an elaborate finding of
fact, which noted that Hitachi controlled up to 20 per cent of Japan!s
productive capacity for such significant items as electric motors and
generators, transformers, and steam and electric locomotives. In view
of the fact that most of the plants to be disposed of are not at pre-
sent in operation, the order is clearly aimed at the company's capa-
city rather than at its actual production, and it is therefore some-
what difficult to see how it conforms to the Deconcentration Review
Board's principle that actual, rather than potential; restraint of
competition must be proved in each case requiring action under the De-
concentration Law. Meanwhile, it may be noted that assumably well-
informed Japanese express the opinion that the Hitachi order is in
fact a measure designed to impose industrial rationalization rather
than economic deconcentration.
Additionally, it may be noted that only in the field of indus-
trial machines is Hitachi the largest producer in Japan, and in that
field it controls only 2.? per cent of the national capacity. In its
other main lines of endeavor, Hitachi ranks considerably below other
companies which have not been required to reorganize; Mitsubishi
Denki, for instance, is left untouched although it controls 15 per
cent of the national productive capacity for heavy electric machines,
in contrast with Hitachi's 9.8 per cent. To confuse the situation
still further, Nippon Rolling Stock Company, Japan's largest producer
of rolling stock (Hitachi is second) has been ordered to amalgamate
with the Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company.
It may be, of course, that Hitachi was ordered to reorganize be-
cause of the cumulative effect of its many enterprises, but that too
would be in conflict with the principles ostensibly followed by the
Deconcentration Review Board.
9. Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company (Tokyo Shibaura Denki Kabushiki
Kaisha)
The case of the Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company has been the
source of considerable discussion and controversy, and has been the
subject of earlier despatches by this Mission (nos. 216 of April 12,
1949, and 392 of June 17, 1949). The final order, which was delayed
until June 17, 1949, because of vigorous opposition on the part of
labor, requires Tokyo Shibaura (Toshiba) to dispose of 27 plants and
a research laboratory, and, as noted above, orders the Nippon Rolling
Stock Company (Nippon Sharyo K.K.) be amalgamated with Tokyo Shibaura.
In
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
- 9 -
In view of information previously forwarded to the Department,
it is considered unnecessary to dwell on the Toshiba case; it may
be noted, by way of summary, that, like the order tranamitted to
Hitachi, the Tokyo Shibaura order may be considered in effect a
rationalization measure. If it is to be considered a deconcentra-
tion measure, then it is apparently based on Tokyo Shibaura's diver-
sified enterprises, and would thus appear to conflict with the De-
concentration Review Board's principles.
The sale of properties, and the resulting diamissal of employees,
have resulted in a split in the Tokyo Shibaura Federation of Labor
Unions, the "moderate" and cooperative faction having seceded and
launched an independent union.
10. Imperial Cil Company (Teikoku Sekiyu Kabushiki Kaisha)
By order of April 15, 1949, the Imperial Oil Company is re-
quired to submit to the Holding Company Liquidation Commission a plan
for disposing of all rights and franchises to properties not presently
under active exploration or exploitation. The Commission moreover
retains the right. to order disposition of any other rights, to the
extent that may be necessary "to remove the restriction and impairment
of opportunity of others to engage in the oil exploration and exploi-
tation fields." It is not clear to what degree Imperial Oil's mono-
poly on Japan's oil production (the company produced 96.4 per cent of
Japan's cil in l947) will be broken; a detailed survey of assets,
grantors, and exploration and exploitation, as required by the order,
has only recently been submitted to General Headquarters, and no
statistical summary has yet been compiled. Although the Company is
clearly a monopoly with respect to domestic oil production, it may be
noted that in 1947 it proluced only 11 per cent of the crude oil con-
sumed in Japan; it may therefore be considered a somewhat less dan-
gerous concentration than, for instance, the electric companies or
the coal-mining companies, which have been relatively untouched by
the deconcentration program.
11. Japan Dynamite Company (Nippon Kayaku Kabushiki Kaisha)
A final order transmitted to the Japan Dynamite Company on June
4, 1949, requires that the company dispose of all stocks held in other
companies, excepting only the Nikka Jitsugyo K.K., a fully-owned mer-
chandising subsidiary. The effect of the order is thus substantially
that which would have resulted from designation as a restricted con-
cern under Imperial Ordinance no. 657 of 1945, or as a holding company
under Imperial Crdinance no. 233 of 1946. The final order specifically
exempts the company from the application of Articles 7 and 8 of the
Rules of Procedure under the Deconcentration Law; those provisions
would require the approval of the Holding Company Liquidation Commis-
sion for dissolution, amalgamation, increase or reduction of capital,
or similar transactions beyond the normal course of business. The
exemption is based upon the view that the provisions of the Deconcen-
tration Law should be no more severe than those which would apply under
Ordinance no. 657 in similar circumstances; the latter was considerably
relaxed late in 1948 (this Mission's despatch no. 729 of November 15,
1948) insofar as it required advance permission for financial operations.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
- 10-
The June 4 order is based upon elaborate findings of fact, which
note that Japan Dynamite controls 34.5 per cent of the national capa-
city for producing high explosives, 85 per cent for black powder, 39
per cent for fuses, 53 per cent for blasting caps, 47 per cent for
electric detonators, 32.5 per cent for dyestuffs, and 10 per cent for
intermediates. The order does nothing to reduce this impressive
potential, however.
12 Hokkaido Dairy Cooperative Company (Hokkaido Rakuno Kyodo
Kabushiki Kaisha)
The Hokkaido Dairy Cooperative Company, which, in spite of its
name, is a profit-making joint-stock company organized under the Japa-
nese commercial code, received a preliminary order on June 4 requiring
it to break into two dairy products companies, organized on a regional
basis, and one company engaged in the production of pharmaceuticals,
leather goods, and other sundries, and in the processing of meat pro-
ducts. To break the company's complete hold on the Hokkaido dairy
industry, the order also requires that it sell three Hokkaido plants
to the Meiji Nyugyo (Dairy Products) K.K. and the Morinaga Shokuryo
(Food) K.K., its two leading competitors. Assets not in Hokkaido are
to be divided equitably among the successor companies.
While the Holding Company Liquidation Commission may order the
Hokkaido Company to sell plants to its competitors, however, it clearly
cannot order the competitors to buy. It is reported that the prospec-
tive buyers are most reluctant to pay the prices asked, and that they
are moreover somewhat dubious about the prospects for business in
Hokkaido; the Hokkaido Dairy Cooperative Company is deeply involved
in the operations of local cooperatives, and of local headmen and
bosses, and it is therefore somewhat doubtful whether Morinaga and
Meiji, even given processing plants, would be able to find milk to
process. A further complicating factor is the fact that the Natural
Resources Section, in its program for promoting agricultural co-
operatives, is toying with the idea of reorganizing the Hokkaido Dairy
firm on more truly co-operative lines; while this would probably not
interfere with the proposed regional breakdown, it would militate
against the sale of certain plants to private firms.
The successor dairy companies, if the proposed order is executed,
will continue to dominate the Hokkaido market; in respect to the
manufacture of butter and cheese, they will be the largest producers
in Japan. The mother company controls 78 per cent of the national
capacity for producing butter, 84.5 per cent for cheese, and 51.8 per
cent for condensed and powdered milk, and virtually l00 per cent for
Hokkaido in each case.
13. Imperial Fiber Company (Teikoku Sen-i Kabushiki Kaisha)
A proposed order transmitted to the Imperial Fiber Company on
July 19, 1949, requires a reorganization into three companies, two to
be engaged in flax scutching and the production of flax yarn and yarn
products, and one to be engaged in the production of rayon staple fiber
and yarn. Hearings were held by the Holding Company Liquidation Com-
mission on August 9, and a final order is expected in the near future.
The
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
- 11 -
The two flax companies will continue to be the largest in Japan;
even since the transfer of five scutching mills to the Japan Fiber
Company (Nippon Sen-i Kogyo K.K.) in 1948, Imperial Fiber controls
86.3 per cent of the national capacity for producing flax fiber.
Imperial Fiber also controls 79.& per cent of the capacity for pure
flax yarn, and 65.4 per cent of the capacity for mixed flax yarns,
with Japan Fiber controlling 17.9 per cent and 32.5 per cent respec-
tively. The rayon ccmpany will be Japan's largest producer of rayon
staple fiber yarn, and fifth largest producer of rayon staple fiber.
14. Mit sui Mining Company (Mitsui Kozan Kabushiki Kaisha)
A pr pose? order transmitted to the Mitsui Mining Company on
July 30, 1949, requires reorganization into two companies, one to
take over the motier company's coal interests, the other its metal
interests, principally lead, zinc, silver, and gold. Assets of the Com-
pany's Megure Mieel Works are to be divided equitably between the two
successor colpanies (only one of which, the order provides, need be
considered a new coapany).
The coal mining company will continue to be the largest in Japan,
controlling lc.4 per cent of the national productive capacity (Mitsui
controlled 26.8 per cent, including its subsidiaries; the company
is designated as a holding company under Imperial Ordinance no. 233
of 1946, however, and subsidiary holdings are to be disposed of).
The metal company will rank first in the production of lead ore
(40.8 per cent of the national capacity) and zinc ore (52.6 per cent
of the national capacity). These figures are based on 1947 pro-
duction.
15. Mitsu ishi Mining Company (Mitsubishi Kogyo Kabushiki Kaisha)
On July 30, 1949, a similar proposed order was transmitted to
the Mitsubishi Mining Compeny, roquiring reorganization into indepen-
dent coal mining and metal mining companies. In addition to the com-
pany's metal mining and smelting interests, the metal company is to
take over facilities for the production of carbide tools, rods, and
castings, and wire and filaments. Assets of the Omiya laboratory are
to be divided equitably between the two companies.
The coal company will control 1l.8 per cent of the national pro-
ductive capacity, based on 1947 production, the metal company, on
the same basis, will control the following percentages of the national
capacity: 11.2 per cent for gold, 19.3 per cent for silver, 23.6 per
cent for copper, 28.6 per cent for lead, 13.2 per cent for zinc
(Mitsubishi has recently slipped rather badly in its competition with
Mitsui in the latier two fields), 91.9 per cent for tin, 42.4 for
arsenic, 43.8 per cent for tungsten, and 28.1 per cent for molybdenum.
16. Toho Company and Shochiku Company
On July 30, the Toho Company and the Shocliku Company, which are
powers in the motion picture industry and dominate the legitimate
stage in Japan, received proposed orders which were similar in form
to the final reorganization order for the Japan Dynamite Company.
Tike
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.97)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
-12 -
Like the earlier order, they require disposition of stocks in other
companies, and suspend the application of Artiales 7 and 8 of the
Rules of Procedure under Law no. 207 of 1947. Upon execution of the
orders, the cases are to be remanded to the Fair Trade Comission
for surveillance.
The principal effects of the ivo orders ill be to separate
Toho from Shintoho, a fully-owned subsidiary organized in 1947 and
controlling a rly half of Tohe's capacity for producing motion
pictures, and i. reduce the control exercised by the two companies
through holdings ef stocks in exhibiting companies. Shochiku's near-
monopelistic hold on the classical Kabuki theatre will remain un-
broker, as will be the contrel of the two companies over the tx of
Japan's first-class thheatres. The Daiei Company, which has a Lurger
capacity for m ion picture production than ither Toho or Shintoho,
is untoushed, vile Poho, Shochikt, and Deiei will continue to divide
up in epproxi-tely egual shares thet portion of the nation's motion
picture distribution business thet is not retained by the Occupation's
Central Yobion Picture Exahange.
Jases n Mhich Ne Action Has Been Taken
It is presentI believed likely Lhat the Japan Express Company
will be reyire to sell cortain properties to the Government, and
others to private compenles, to an extent sufficient to destroy the
Company's present monepoly. Thus, altlhough the crder will probably
not reguire the Cosapany to treak up into two or more successors, it
is hoped in enersl lieadquartera that the effect of the reorganiza-
tion will be to establish firms in effective competition with Japan
Express. A mererande o  Ja anese Covernnent (ScapIN) will
be drafhed o reguire the Government--mere specifisally, the Govern-
nent railways--to purchase property as specified.
The Jaren Elactrie Pover Generation and Transmission Company
and the nire electric distribot ire corpanies pose an extremely com-
plex problem w ich hss been the source of considerable debate in the
Japanese press, and the subject of petitions to this Mission in its
capacity as Cffice of the Chairman of the Allied Counsil for Japan.
The plan al present under consideration vould result in seven regirnal.
companies controlling both generation end distribution, the Japan
Power Generation and Transmi ssion Com any would thus be liqtidated.
The present Chubu, Kansei, and Hckuriku Distributing Companies would
be amalgamated inte ons company for tectmical reasons (it is under-
stood that the Kansei area is cef rient in electric power generation
facilities), while the remaining six companies (Holkkaido, Tchoku,
Kanto. Chugoku, Shikoku, and Kyushy) would retain roughly their pre-
sent spheres of operation. Diet action will be required to break the
monopoly of the Povwer Generation and Transmission Company, which we
established by law in 193s; it is understood that the Diet will also
be repuired by SCAP directive to establish a Public Utilities Com-
mission for continuing surveillance cver the inlustry.
The seven-bloc plan has not proved popular with the Japanese.
The All Japan Electric Workers Union has object to it on the grounds
that it will lead to leterioration of working conditions, and that
it will damage industry through ureven supply and unequal rates; the
union
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 576,
August 25, 1949.
union has suggested that a public corporation, similar to the
National Railways Corporation, be organised and given all the
facilities of the generating company and the nine tranmmission
companies. The Social Democratic Party favors nationalisation,
while a committee appointed to advise the Minister of Comerce
and Industry in 1948 recommended a three-bloc plan, with one com-
pany controlling generation and distribution for Honehu and Kyusbu,
and one each for Shikoku and Hokkaido. The Hokuriku and Chubu
areas, particularly Nagoya interests, oppose the plan on the grounds
that it contributes to the destruction of local autonomy. The Japa-
nese press likewise has not been enthusiastic. Although it has not
yet made its views known, it is considered unlikely that the Decon-
centration Review Board will be moved by this flood of criticism
and counter-proposals.
Conclusion
The scope and effectiveness of the deconcentration program,
as summarized above, are not impressive. It should be pointed out,
however, that this survey has limited itself to the administration
of Law no. 207 of 1947, and that other aspects of SCAP's anti-trust
policy, such as the dissolution of the holding companies, will be
made the subject of a separate report. Moreover, a mumber of com-
panies have, since release from designation'under the Deconcentra-
tion Law, reorganized themselves along the lines originally pro-
posed by the Anti-Trust and Cartels Section. The Kobe Steel Com-
pany, for instance, has broken into three successors, and the Nissan
Chemical Company into two.
Misgivings about the total effectiveness of the anti-trust pro-
gram cannot be escaped, however. The revised Anti-Monopoly Law (Law
no. 54 of 1947: see this Mission's despatch no. 379 of June 13, 1949)
contains almost no guarantee, except the not-too-keen surveillance of
the Fair Trade Commission, against the reestablishment of horizontal
combines, while the overweening power of the large banks and insurance
companies continues to harass amall enterprises, which have been not-
ably unsuccessful in obtaining credit during recent months.
With the completion of the deconcentration program, this Mission
will expect to report more fully on other facets of SCAP's anti-trust
policy.
Respectfully yours,
W. J. Sebald
Parchment Mat to. the Department.
500
EGSeidensticker, Jr.:lee
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.92)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION
Acting United States Political Adviser for Japan,
eRm
894.
Tokyo.
A-177, 0ct. 20, 1949
The Department refers to the Missions unclassified despateh no. 533
dated August 6, 1949 enclosing a copy of a SCAP press release announcing
completion of the work of the Deconcentration Review Board and confidential
despatch no. 876 dated August 25 containing a Survey of Economic Deconcen-
tration Program in Japan". It is noted that the Survey, which the Department
finds of considerable interest and value, and the work of the Deconcentrathon
Review Board relate to the implementation of Law No. 207 of 1947 (Law for
Removal of Excemsive Concentrations of Economic Power). Since this law
constitutes hit one element of the anti-trust program, further roports on
other aspects of the program which the Mission may prepare will be appreciated.
08
The Department is particularly interested in the conclusions which the 6
Mission has drawn regarding the scope and effectiveness of the administration
of Law No. 207 and the anti-trust program in general, the amount of popular
602/8-2549
support for the program, and the prospects of its continuation by the
Japanese after a treaty of peace.
Achaon
S
)
RRm
CP
DISTRIBUTION
ITP:IR:Hfassberg:prg
cTw
DESIRED
FE:NA:NHermendinger:lk
68
(OFFICES ONLY)
(9/30-10/13/49)
les
S
，
HiD
/D
CR OCT 19 1949P
CONFIDENTIAL
CLASSIFICATION
Corrections made on this original MUST be made on all
copies before delivery to Airgram Section, Telegraph Branch.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.97)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
COMFIDEITIAL
NOA.
Washington,
USPOLAD,
TOKYO.
The Dept. refers to the Missions unclassified despatch no. 533
dated August 6, 1949 enclosing a copy of a SCAP press release announcing
completion of the work of the Deconcentration Review Board and con-
fidential despatch no. 576 dated August 25 containing a "Survey of
Economic Deconcentration Program in Japan.* It is noted that the
Survey, which the Department finds of considerable interest and value,
and the work of the Deconcentration Review Board relate to the im-
plementation of Law No. 207 of 1947 (Law for Removal of Excessive
Concentrations of Economic Power). Since this law constitutes but
one element of the anti-trust program, further reports on other
aspects of the program which the Mission may prepare will be appre-
ciated.
Owing to the importance of this phase of the program and the
attention whioh it has had among the Japanese, the Department is
particularly interested in the concludons which the Mission has
drawn regarding the scope and effectiveness of the administration of
Law No. 207 and the anti-trust program in general, Recently, and
especially after the Deconcentration Review Board'concluded its work
and transmitted a report to SCap dovering its activities in Japan,
the deconcentration policy has received considerable attention in the
press and in other publications. In the event that inquiyies are
directed to the Department from Congress and other sources,it would be
helpful to have the Mission's views on the following.
1. Has Law 207 been implemented as effectively as was originally
considered necessary to achieve the aims of the occupation?
If not, please indicate any reasons therefor.
DISTRIBUTION
2. Are other phases of the anti-trust program being implemented
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
as effectively as originally considered necessary.
3. What is the degree of papular support which the program
enjoye on the part of the Japanese public?
he amunt  posulen turane a te. trgeaim, and
the prripuls y its cabeimden C te opamme afl.
treat, 7 pear.
Confidential
CR CLEARANCE
★ U. B. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE-1947 736396

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
OUTGOING AIRGRAM
Department of State
Washington,
NO..
-2-
4. What, in your opinion, are the prospects for the Japanese
effectively continuing the anti-trust progran after a
treaty has been signed?
5. In your view what sheps might be considered by this government
to increase the Ikelihood of the Japanese vigorously continuing
the program, thus contributing to the growth of moderate politieal
opinion in Japan.
WEBB
ATING
(A)
DISTRIBUTION
DESIRED
(OFFICES ONLY)
CONFIDENTIAL
CR CLEARANCE
ITP:IR:HFassberg:prg
CP
9-30-49

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.91)
CONFIDENTIAL
TO
: NA - Niles W. Bond
DATE:
FRom : IR - Roger C. Dixom
DIVISION OF
NORTHEAST ASIAN AFFA
SUBJECT: Attached Airgram
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
In preparing the attached airgram, we have followed/NA's
suggestion and have onitted the two newspaper articles which were
originally enclosed. Furthermore, the suggestions which you made
regarding the solicitation of POLAD's evaluation of the
deconcentration program have been followed and queries have been
framed which are designed to obtain the information which we desire.
In addition, reference is made to despatch No. 576 dated
October 5, which contains some information bearing on the general
problem.
m
NA's concurrence is requested.
innably
by
am
loeck artea
understend the
POLAD;
88
1
Phm
CONFIDENTIAL
le oct
ITP: IR:HEFassbergorg
9-30-49 t

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.91)
UNITED STATEs
INTERNATIONAL RESOURGES DIVISION
DateAotion
bet (u os 20e yb
CEP 28 1949
894.602/964
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Tokyo, September 61949.
RXCD
69
SXPT
No. 612
ACAIN
CONFIDENTIAL
ITP
28 PM 12 01
1NFD
LCR
Subject:
Di scussions between China-American Leaf Tobacco
N
and the Japan Monopoly Public Corporation.
2
The Honcrable
The Secretary of Stste
Sir:
24Rs
I nave che hence to rarer to vne Departnent s Argram instrue-
lon no l2e. Aigust 2 1949. regarding disaussions currently being
held in Tokys bstween a representative of the C na Americap Leaf
Tobeaco Sempany of Rocky Mount North Car lina, and the Japan
Moacprty Pullt: Co sporat ven (Mpo) for perticipatlon by the American
irn in she Jepanese tobas c industry
Lefornatin regaraing these dis usslcns end previous discuesions
besween the tobacee man poiy cffict vis end e representative of the
Brat: ch Americen Tobacc Company (Hat), were supplie to an officer
of thia Misstn n Aigust 2 l949 y Mr. Uichi No. Vice President,
TMPC Arording o Mr Neia, M. WiLliam B. CHRISTIAN, in charge of
BaT peratins n hina visite? Jayan in December, 1948, and pro
posed that the ar "auppert" the Japanese tobacco monopoly by
supplying leaf toracco. equipment and techuical assistance. At that
time, Mr. Node stated. r. Christian expressed a desire to make an
arrangerent for operation under the monopoly system. Mr. Noda said
that. although he did not kow ail of the details of the discussions
between Mr. Christian and tobacco monopoly officials, he had the
disticet impressicn that the BAT wished to participate in the opere-
tion of existing tobacco plants in Jepan and that it had no interest
in erection cf new plants. Mr. Noda added that Mr. Christian at that
time appeared prinarily interested in obtaining à preliminary re-
action tc his proposals from the tobacco monopoly officials concerned.
On the Japanese side, according to Mr. Noda, no need was then
0
felt fer foreign sseistence in the tobacco monopoly operations. The
FILED
capacity for manufacturing tcbaccc products at the end of 1948 was
1
3
894.512
811.503194
CONFIDENTIAL
69
PCOPY
RETURN TO DO/R FILES WITHIN 14 DAYS, WITH A NOTATION OP AOTION TAK

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 612
September 6, 1949.
- 2 -
not sufficient to meet demands. However, plans for restoration of
the plants and increase of equipment were being carried out smoothly.
It was felt at that time that, should Mr. Christian's proposal be
accepted. the net result would be an undesirable increase in pro-
ductive capacity; this point, according to Mr. Noda, was stressed by
Ohacco monopoly officials as being the main reason why Mr. Christian's
proposal was not seriously entertained by them.. Additionally, Mr.
Noda stated, the Japanese Government's committee on foreign invest-
ments had expressed the opinion to monopoly officials that foreign
investment in the tobacco industry was not needed, in view of more
irgent requirements by other industries, such as the electric power
and other basic industries, for such investments.
According to Mr. Noda, Mr Christian resumed his conversations
with tobacco monopoly officials in February, 1949, prior to which time
Premier Shigeru YOSHIDA had publicly indicated that he was thinking
favoratly of a plan to transfer the entire tobacco monopoly business
to private hands. Mr. Noda expressed the opinion that Mr. Christian,
then in China, must have heard of the Premier's attitude in this re-
gard and for that reason hed returned to Japan. Actually, Mr. Noda
pointed out, no definite plan was then being considered in Japanese
Government circles concerned for transfer or the tobacco business to
private hands.
On the occasion of his second visit to Japan. Mr. Christian
assertedly no longer wished to work cut an arrangement for coopera-
tion with the tobacco monopoly, he being qucted es saying that he was
not interested in pursuing negotiations so long as the monopoly re-
meined in existence Mr. Christian, according to Mr. Noda, left
Japan in March and requested to be informed if and when the Japanese
Goverament had any definite plans which might be of interest to his
company.
Thereafter, according to Mr. Noda, thought was given in the
monopoly as to the conditions under which foreign investment, if any,
would be permitted in the tobacco business. The conclusion was
reached that a policy be favored of having bonded factories estab-
lished wherein foreign leaf tobacco would be imported and finished
products exported, with domestic market requirements being met from
existing monopoly plants. It was hoped that Japanese economic con-
ditions wculd improve tc such an extent as to permit importation of
fcreign leaf as in prewar days.
Mr. Noda steted further that officials in the Economic and
Scientific Section (ESS), General Headquerters, SCAr, were reported
by Finance Ministry officials as being uninterosted in the monopoly's
suggestion to establish bonded tobacco factories.
In this
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.96)
Tokyos Despatch No. 612,
September 6, 1949,
3
At this juncture in May. Mr. Emile BaRuCH, representative of
the China-American Leaf Tobacco Company. initiated discussions re-
gardinz possible cooperation with the tobacco monopoly with Finance
Minister Hayato IZEDA and certain officials in the monopoly bureau.
As from June 1 however, these conversations were transferred by the
Finence Minister to the newly-established JuPC, of which Mr.
Tekanczuke AkIYAMA is President, and Mr Noda, as praviously steted,
Tice President Messrs. Akiyama and Noda conmenced their talks with
Mr Baruch in early June, and have since represented the Japanese
Government in all subseguent diseussions with him
After several exploratory discussions with Mr. Baruch, Mossrs.
Akiyama end Hoda assertedly handed him a tentative proposal calling
for establishment of a new compeny to be capitalized at one billion
yen with capital investment tc be made or a 50-50 basis. On the
Japaneae side, the Ji offered to supply land, buildings. yen funds,
et cetera. and suggested that the American firm invest machinery,
Leaf tobace: and other materials According to Mr. Node, the new
company would te prepared to erect a pew plant which would be treated,
for customs purposes. as beaded factory. It was slso proposed that
25 per cent of the leaf totacco used by the plant would be of Japanese
oragin and   per cent of American and other foreign origin. The
enual product:on of cigerettes would be three tillion pieces, of
which two billlen would be set aaide for export and one billion for
saie to the JMPc for distribution in Japn. A final feature of the
proposal made by Messre Akiyane and Noda provided for the China-
Amerlcan Leaf Tobaceo Company to utilize 10 per cent of the value of
tobecce produsts exported for purshese or leaf tobacco for the JMPC.
Arcordang ro Mr Noda. Mr Baruch replied to the foregoing
proposas along the foilowing lines: (i) the plant should be estab-
lished in a free trade zone. Ireferably in the Yokohama erea, (2) a
guerentee or assurance was desared to the effect tpat tobacco
products which could not be exported could be sold te the JuPo for
domestic sale; (3) a monopoly right wes desired for sole importation
of Americar leaf totecco for the sccount of the JMec this right to
be granted for a specified number of years; and (4) exemption from
all domestic taxes for the new company. in the same manner as the
Corporation itself ts granted exemption
Cn July 1, 194e. accerding to Mr Node a reply was ment to Mr.
Baruch as follows: (1) the number of cigarettes which the new company
could sell to the JiPc wes tc remain as originally proposed at one
billion pieces, (2) in case export demand is not favorable, the sur-
plus cigarette manufacturing capacity of the new company should be
ased for production of the Corpcration s own brands of cigarettes;
(3) regerding the request for tax exemption, the now company should
te treated as any regular business in which there is foreign invest-
nent, thst is to say. no exempticn fram taxation may be granted
On July 22,
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.89)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 612.
September 6. 1949
On July 22 1949. r. Baruch conferred again with Vessr.
Akiyama and  e m anformed them that he could not obtain approval
from uhe on d fr:cials of the Economic and Scientific Seg
t
Acsoraing to Mr Noda it appeared that Mr.
Barch x uneble te enl st support for the plan in large part be-
recco was cons dered to be e luury commodity Additionally.
ir Noda indicated that some question must have erisen in the minds
 ss fic als conserned over sont rel of the yen funds which might
Pe mecumm atad here by the Cheae Ameplean Lear Fobaeso Company, which
weld weener or later desare to pene prt of ste prefits in dollars
to the tnrted States
Uz
Node stated vhat discussiens with Mr. Baruck had, since
Fuiy  net progressed beyond the peinte indicated ebove Asked to
annment e the tiret four questions ratsed in the Department's airgram
unaer referepce Nr Nede replled as followe:
  the pro osed cenpany as establisoed the
Fepeuese Goverranest would first have te revise the Auti-
Mo poly Law the aw prevame for estabi lahnert of the
ht und wrmuld alao havs te reke budgetary aigustments.
To a raw law were eneeted to pauvice tor eetaol shment of
tho mpomy shat low coula be krowe up to provide for an
  t   .
(2) As previously stated netling derinite has been
dee ded es to whether the preyesas company would be em-
poweree ve monopeize the ere tie and expertation of
topeoeo are pa preaucts As prevesed the Anecicen firm
wrenes to to gigen conepoly raehts on all tmperts of
Americ o leat peso Jopan for a gtven peries The Corpora-
ticn would penain the right to vmport lear tobacee from all
other aceas as well as to exper its owm producte, inelud-
ixg Japan grown leaf cigarettes, cigare et eetera, such
exportatron being handled by the Corporation tbrough
varipus private companies
(3) Regarding the probable public reaction in Japan
o the private American participation in the tobacco monopoly,
it is sertain that such perticipation would be bitterly
attacked by Jepanese Conmunists who could be expected to
foliow the line that Japan was being subjeeted to American
ccmmerelal exploitation Opposition would undoubtedly also
te volced by the Jepanese farmers, now under contract to grow
isaf tobacce for the monopoly, whe would fear that their
interests would suffer beceuse of the heavy importation of
foreigu leef Employees in the Monopoly Corporation, who
are organized into a labor union, would also probably make
strenuous
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo'a Despatch No. 612,
September 6, 1949.
… 5
strenucus objection since they have gone on record as
opposing the introduction of fcreign capital into the
tobaccc busiusss of Japan because of an slleged threat
to their ots, On the other hand, consumers of tobacco
proounts. who would feel that they could obtain batter
"igarettes than presently availatle, would probably be
in fevor of fcreign investment in the tobacco business.
(4) Japanese businesa and industriel cireles have
displayed a keen interest in plans of the type described
above and are inelined to favor the introduction of
foreign capital in such lines as the tobacco business.
Mr. Node sald he was net in position to indicate the re-
action of foreiga tusiness interests to the proposed
partictpat on of the China Amertcan Lear Tobacco Company
in she Fapanese tobecce business He satd, however, that
the Japaneee press has expressed che opinion that the
intredueti on of foreige investnant into the tobeace
(ndustry shculd receive caroful ana prudent coneideration.
In rder to sacervein what steps 1f any Mr. Baruch may-have
taken to discuss his propesal with the concerned Ess officials, an
officer of this Mission ou August 30. 1949. discussed this matter
with Mr Chark 3 GREjoRy Executive Seeretary of the ESS Foreign
Investment Board Mr Gregory stated that the only fermal approach
thus far made ny Mr Beruch to that Board was contained in a letter
dated Agust 24 1949. aidressed to Mr Prayne EAkER. Executive
Chairman of the Board the full text of which lerter follows?
"The Chine Americen Tobacco Company of Rocky
Mount North Caroline. Ter whiet company I am repre-
septatave advises that it 1s prepared to supply the
Japanese Tobacco Monopoly with one shipment of 5. 00o
ro 10, c00 kilegrams of leaf tobasce
"The company has stated that it is willing to
receive paymeut for this leaf tohacco in yen provided
that such yen can be utilized for investment purpcses
and/or freely expended in Japan for expenses the company
or its representatives may incur.
"It ie requested that approval of this proposal be
granted. It is believed thst this leaf tobacco will
supply an urgent Japanese requirement aud will furnish
an incentive to the Japanese for further cooperation
with the Occupation authcrities in achieving the aims
of the Occupation....."
Mr. Grogory
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo's Despatch No. 612.
September 6, 1949
-6
Mr. Gregory stated that Mr. Baruch had approached him fn-
formally about one month previous with regard to a proposal to
have the Japanese Government set up a free port area on an island
in Tokyo Bay whare a factory could be erected for production of
cigarettes by  new sompany to be organized by his firm in con-
junct on w:th the MPC Mr Gregory assertedly informed Mr. Baruch
to araw up hie plans in concrete form and submit a fermal applica-
tion to the Ess Foreign Investment Board, the application to show
how the propesed inveatment would contribute to the economic re-
habilitation of Japan, how it would provide a means for obtontion
of fore gn exchange by Tepan, how it would further SCaP objectives,
and whether the plan wes otherwise in conformity with the standards
for foreign investment adouted by SCAP and announced in SCAP Cir-
cular no 2 end S0AP1 no. 1961 of Jannery 14, 1949 (see our des-
patch no 48 0f January 24 1949.
Mr. Gregory, on August 3o. was informed of the Department's
viewe voncerning the propesal of the Anerlcan firm for participa-
vaon in tbe Jepanese tebacce undustry He indicated that those
v' ews would be raken into conaideration in the event that Mr. Baruch
sutacts a Formal eppl cation to the ESs Foreign Iavestment Board.
Neanwhtle it mey be noted phat Mr. Gregory ou September 8 informed
an srficer ot this Mtasion that a reply had been made to Mr. Baruch's
letter qucted abeve. the veply informiag him to aporoach the ESS
Feretgr Trede ane Ceemerce Dirision with respect to the importation
of leaf tobacas end ndvising that the locel investment of yen accruals
deriveu Frcs sale cf the leef tobaceo to the Jhee must be in conform-
ty with the stove  ted SCAP Careular no 2 and S0APIN no. 1961.
No attempt has thus far teen made to intervtew Mr. Baruch re-
sariing bis piena Urtil recently be was a relatively munor official
in ESS, where be sppears te have besn employed for several years.
Certanc key Ess etficials bave indicated to the writer that they do
net cons der Mr Laruch to se sn expsrienced businessman and thoy
also questiou the desirability of having foreiga capital iavested in
an industry which cannct contripute directly to Japan"s economic
rehabilitstion
According to a responsibie official in the Finence Ministry.
Mr. Baruch how proposes to impcrt American leef tobacco into Japan
where it wouid be manufactured into cigarettes by the JMPC, the brand
name to te specified by lr Bsruch and sales to be effected in dollars
in the Overseas Supply Stores. Our informant stated further that
Mr. Baruch was scheduled to have a conference on this matter with
JuPc and Finance Ministry officials concerned on September 6. Owing
to the recent application of 355 per cent import duty on imported
sigarettes for comsmptiox by non-Occupation personnel, sales of
popular American
CONFIDENTLAL

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.83)
Tokyo s Despatch No. 612
Septmoor 1949
porular rerice Iran garettes in the Overseas Supply Stores,
operet eo ure e s ce te on of the Desupetiou for the bonefit of
persor c ess to dollars ea cther ascepteble forms
  .ay. have rallen srf she rply It appears question
 vr ther  demana   reated fer vigarettes made
 ty he po fren Amerean f nd sold under an unfamiliar
breot wae eyouily so view of t ore velune ef American
 ty  ele r le on the black parket.
 f ot r was deveted by Jepanese
 e t o en ef peusttle transfer
o  o  e  foret
At F rsted phat "r Premier
abac mder pr vate managenent aims to
 y  aferer preostion tech
 er wery ef ehate howver. if be
f tu er a mere utmost
ia peeetsonatly whether the intro
r  porc ple peacee ueder private
ov   m cn
o peeoroe fere aptal with the
me t ve p  more palree toba  he repy zs
sFeere sheuls e ntredesel snto andustries
sey  m apt sr sppet   wmary tpenslation or
  th  P mae Mry 's Special
pesed ef 18 merters from
pot e fe De cgerer wt her mer ef learnng and
exper. re s pere by eroumd Septemper so to work out e con
slusn f e problen f posssble sransfer of pobeces manufacture
from ve mouopely  pr vate managemany This paper sndicated that
Prerter Yeshide is wuusualiy eager to effect this transfer, and that
he woula be presered should the abeve cited Counoil side with the
Finarce Manretry n cppoerng the pransfer, to take appropriate steps
on the wespons:e. lity or ooth the Government and the Demoeratic
Lacera Ferty According to the Shin Tokye editerral, Premier
Yosh:oa "wt wents the privats manegement plan realized over the
Famen e M nistry s eppesition seems to have no one else in mind
but the Geveemmens the finaneias tereauerats, and businessmen."
Accerding to a report in the August 16 issue of the Hochi
Shes Tokye Premter Yeshida strengly advocates private manage-
ment of the tabeeeo business and the Gevernment "has decided to
materiulize it sometime this year atter making a thorough study of
the matter " Chief Cab net Secretery Kaneshichi MASUDA, according
to the Ho ht on Algust 15 made the following statement at a press
conference:
"There Is no
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.83)
Tokyo's Desr atch No 612.
September 6 1949
8-
"Taere 1s no ruom left for discussion or the
propriety of private management of the tobacco enter-
prise
The Premmer has clearly expressed that the
privats wamewent methed should be studled If the
o   osfee  private maagemene ef tobecco
 ae s eranay ees ef the Dlet
The rerere. it will be
praoated te the apeecsl seseres de aa to pees the Diet
some te ths yeer are  we oe fer the intre
a ro r poae capat for so eve pespose but
the vrofit seems see bigt so we wunt to harroneze with
e poe  h coon For the collestion
owerthe
 th n f taxes.
pre  re pe to he foteging statement, Finance
M de    .  y  e fowg sttement,
cr  Ar e   Su rokyo
    t er r he ob ter
er to prarace megerens o pot so muet as is generally
w  de  po wat cood cobacso et
   gue  ther t ade of lear
es so o e ed to prve hands and how
o     r It is
        w
  r r s  rm   th
       we 
er  w o e w he v fvere sh
    ce rve for re pest seores
far     oh  rea rrerence in
 r let  of  preem or peble raasfer
ef ce poo er o srvate uteree was dode on August 17
3.
by the Asarm Shumbun n an eantorial (translacson enclosed) entitled
"Cosed to Pr rate Management ef Potacce Enterprise " The Asahi
states trst ti prebler should frrst and foremeet be dealt with from
the st andpeirt ef gevernmere finance. since the tobeeco mesopoly
repre vats an inrestsent cf 2o tillton yen whieh as scheduled to
cenr mute  blljen yen durang the fscal year cmmeneing April 1.
Je4s to the treasury This figure represents l6 pereent of the
Goverment"s totel revenue in the current budget
In aanouncing pts opposition to the proposed transfer or the
tobacce busines. t pr cate management the Asaht freely adnits that
she existidg monopoly system has serious sefscts At the same time.
however for the reasons cited ic the editorial, the paper states
that "we ere expressly opposed to the government to-private change-
over of the tobaceo enterprise management at this moment."
It may
CONFIDRNTIAL

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.85)
Tokyo's Despatth Ne. 612
September 6. 1949
- 9-
It may t allei that. in view of the financlal aspects of
this question  pointed our by the Asahi. an officer cf this
M.ss:on a.o  aed with Mr L. Harold LMoSS, Chief. ESS Internal
Reveaue D viszon she negctiations conducted by r. Baruch with
fule of the Jitt Mr Mose who is vitally interested in the
Jupanese tax situat on said that he had been aware of these nego-
tratious that he had e iireut auterest in them. because of the
impl retlons with respect to Tapanese tat sollactions, and that he
appre eted rece ving on snazcat on as te the Department's views
ritn reapeet to the eeot at ons senda tee between the JMpc and
Mr Baruch
Thas Miseren we epeet te rererr further upen the general
subjert of possible srtefer et the tobacce ponopoly enterprise to
privere manaeseeent with egecafie referonee to partlcipation of
Fere.g forms ntie che hre Ameran Lear Tebacee Gompany.
Res   your
W J Sebald
Bay  of 
ente G.r Pe F
Augost 9 1949 by ahe Pokyo
Shambun rekyo.
Fut transtateon ef eitorial e
at led "Yaehrda Warts Private
Henagement of Tobasco Output"
published August l0 1949 by the
Shin Tokye. Toky: and
31
Rell trenehatton of editorial
catitled "Opposed to Private
Managenent ef rebacco Eaterprise"
rublished Angust 17 1949 by the
Asaha Shimbur Toky
Par rmert mat to the Depactment
552 3
CHBoehringerpf
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.97)
Erclesure Ne. I te Despatch No. si
dated September 6, 1949 frem the
United States Political Adviser Ter
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject Dis-
UNCLASSIFIED
cussiens between China-American
Leaf Tobacco and the Japan Monopely
Public Cerporation".
(Copy of sunrary translation of editorial
publ1shed August 9. 1949. by the Tokyo Shimbum)
CONSIDER PRIVATE TOBACCO BUSINESS CAUTIOUSLY
Fremier YoShIDA's proposal to trensfer tobacco manufacture
from monopoly to private management seems to have been welccmed by
the general publis which feels that under private management tobacco
will xot be higher in price or worse in taste than now.
The abolition of the tobacco monopoly, howaver, must be studied
mere painstakingly If Premier YOSHIDA's scheme to place tobacce
under private manegement aims tc eliminate buresucratic inefriciency
and inferior production techniques. it is not particularly worthy of
debate. However, if he intends to introduce foreign capital through
such a measure utmost caution should be exereised. Many defects of
the present monepoly systen must naturally be remedied, but it must
rot be overlooked that the Governient depends upon the monopely
system for a total yearly revenue of lx0 000 000 000 yen It 18
clear that iuported tobaccc leaves. fully dried and properly flavored,
car preduce palatable totacco However, owing to the shortage of
foreign exchange, indigencus leaves, incompletely dried and insuffi-
ciently flavered. must be ussd for the nost part.
The projected private managemen: of tobacco business will only
apply to the manufacturing stage If tobacco sales are made free,
there will artse a difficult preblem of collecting the past menopely
preceeds through consumptien taxes. The prire of monopoly tobacco
must not be compared with that of tax-free foreign tobacco being
sold in the black market. laxes on tobacco are excessive as shown
in the fact thet salas of foreign totacco at Overseas Supply Stores
sharply declined after the imposition of import duties..
It is questionable whether the introduction of foreign capital
through placing tobacco unaer private management is to be welcomed.
However, under current econonic conditions, 1s Japan permitted to
introduce foreign capital with the mere objective of producing more
palatable tobacco? The reply is absolutely no. Foreign capital
should be introduced into industries necesaary to make Japan self-
supporting. National consumption should rather be restricted.
Even if tobacco is transferreo from monopcly to private enter-
prise, 12C, 000, C00, 000 yen of national revenue, bitherto collected
as monopoly proceeds, must be secured by all means. As a result,
there is little room left for improving the taste of tobacco.
What does
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure No, 1
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 612,
September 6 1949.
-2~
What does Premier YOSHIDh intend by placing tobacco enterprise under
private management? If he contemplates introducing foraign capital
into the tobacco industry, he must reflect upon current economic
conditions. He should be reminded that tobacco acreage had to be
reduced in order to increase food production
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No. 2 to Despatch No. 612
dated September 6, 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan, Tokyo, on the subject
UNCLASSIFIED
"Discussions between China-American
Leaf Tobacco and the Japan Monopoly
Public Corporation"
(Sopy of full translation of editorial published
Angust 10 1949, by the Shin Tokyo Tokyo)
YOSHIDA WANTS PRIVATE MANAGELLENT OF TOBACCO OUTPUT
Premier YoSHIDA recently revealed his intention of transferring
tobacco manufacture from the governn ent monopoly to private manage-
ment The Finance Ministry's Special Monopcly System Deliberative
Council, composed of 18 members of beth Fouses and men of learning
and experience is expected to work cut a conclusion on this
problem by around 20 September.
The Premier is unusually eager to realize the transfer. On
4 August he urged Chief Cabinet Secretary Lasuna ana other sub-
ordinates to prepure a bill to that effect in time for presentation
to the extraordinary diet session this fall
Referring to the deliberative courcil he sounded this warning:
"If the Council decides to side in with the Finance Linistry and
oppose the transfer I shall take appropriate steps or the responsi-
biltty of both the Governrent and the DIP "
No one would object to the transfer if it brings better and
cheaper tobacco to ths psople as the Premier states. The sale of
high quality luxuries at reasonable prices and in quantity is highly
destrable
It has been widely recognized tnat under government
monopoly. luxuries are at present being sold far from that ideal
condition
The monopoly authortties have mals a series of failures and
miscalculations that only a government agency is capable of doing
The Government still rations bulk tohacco It tried unsuccessfllly
to increase the sale of its untasty extra ration tobaccos by brand-
ing them as tobacco of "international quality" and by sdvertising
them together with invitations to hot springs and lottery tickets.
The proposed transfer to private management should be welcomed
if it will bring tobacco back to it rightful position of a true
luxury item.
The fact that in this country tobacco brings in 120 billion yen
a year in tax reveuue should not be over--looked in discussing the
private management problem. The propriety of taxing tobacco so
heavily is admittedly questionable but it is a grim fact that we
cannot discuss the tobacco problem without regard to tax. Some
other sources of revenues must be found if tobacco is to be placed
under private management for if a cut in the tobacco price means a
boost in some other taxes, it is a serious problem.
It is
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.94)
Enclosure No.. 2
to Tokyo's Despateh No. 612,
September 6 1949
-2
It is too   mistse to expect that if the tobacco business
is taken over  commere al firme competition among them will better
the quelity c tcbacee and make exports possible It is proble.
wet csi whether there ts any commercial firm so influential as to
man the huge tcbacce business. Eventually the Government will have
to foot the bill.
The inadvisability of such a method is self-
evident
Governnent party cireles plan to have the tobacco business
splis and taken over by several firs and to have one or two firms
run by foreign capital etther conpletely or in part But the intro-
duction of foreign cepital can hardly be expected to bring any
terge tobasee revenue tc the Goverment Moreever the people find
it difficult to understand wiy ths tobaccc business should be
allowed prioricy to drew on foreign capital when pany other in-
i.str:es want it as wels
Premier Yosuina who wants the private management plan realized
over the Finance Mimistry's op osation seems to have no one else in
mind bus the Geternment the financtal bureauerats and businessmen.
He seeme te have litt e con ern for the people whe consume tobacce.
It ls hoped he will give mere weight to the peeple's spinion on this
question The problem should be deci ded in the Diet after the
gereral pablle as well es sre eaperas are fully scunded sut The
Premier shoula refreir from tryiag to sway the opinton of the Dell-
berattve Counci before at bas reached a deciston
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.96)
Enclosure No. 3 to Despatch No. 612
dated September 6. 1949 from the
United States Political Adviser for
Japan Tokyo, on the subject
UNCLASSIFTED
"Discussions between China-American
Leaf Tobacco and the Japan Monopoly
Public Corporation"
(Gomy  rull translution of eiitorial published
August 17 1949. by the Aahi Shimbun. Tokyo)
OPPOSED TO PRIVATE MANAGE ENT OF TOBACCO ENTERPRISE
Pres and cons on the propesed ctunge over from government to
private management of the tobacco enterprtse are now reportedly
under conaideration by the Provisional onopoly Systam Council.
The latest reports nowever indlcate th t Pramier YoSpIDA 1s
firmiy determined to carry out the proposed chenge over on the
responsilylity of both the Government tnd the Demooratie Liberal
Party no matter what the couneil's conelusion may be. Meanwhile,
there is quite & streng tendeney emeng the people to telieve that
the governnent to pr:vate change-ever when enfereed is bound to
provide them with totacco ef better quality at lower prises.
Woula it be in the long run reseonable to prensfer the
tebacce ent erprise new under govern ent monopely to private manage-
ment? Tis question cerries with is mat only the preblens cen-
cerning the forn cf management but also those or primary importance
such as sis releticnships with govertment finance and the forth-
soming foreign investmants
It canaet be denied en the other nand, shat the transrerra. or
vupacce enterprise from the Government to private concerne has a
great danger of eventually placing the 2o o0o 00o c00-yen enterprise
under the exclus ve contrch of a small grcup It is thersfore.
quite imperative for us te take stock of this change-over problem
carerully and calmly
This problem, in our opinion. should first and foremost be
dealt with from the standpoint of government finance It is a well-
known fact that the nation's tobacco entarprise had its start as a
private enterprise and was later placed under semi-governmental
control in view of the inereasing tax evasions by tohacco growers
and dealers And in l89s the Government finally took over the whole
prosess of tobacce enterprise---manufacturing. sales, and importation.
As is clearly shown by this fact the Government's tobacco
monopoly was set up to meet the necessities of government finance
and has been maintained to date along this line. Thus it can be said
that the present tobacco monopoly has a nature of a tax gathering
organ and hence there is the term "financial monopoly "
Financially
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.92)
Enclosure No. 3
to Tokyo's Despatch No. 612,
September 6, 1949.
~2
Financially a total of 120, 000.000. 000 yen is budgeted from
tobasco in the Government s revenues during the vurrent fiscal year.
This flgure represeuts tf per:ent of the Government's total revenues
in the urrent adget
Theee whe are in faver of transferring the mation"a tobacce
enterpr se from the Government to private concerns often point out
the inatanees in foreign countries to bank up their reasoning. As
a matter f fect however, Japan is quite different from foreign
countrles es far as the nation's tobacse monop:ly is concerned.
Whereas in China the taxation rate on tcbacce stands et about 36
pereent and t0o pepeant in the tnited States. the percentage is much
fer blgher vu Japan, reaching lo00 pescent
In the United States and China where the taxation rates on
tobacco are comparativeiy lov, tax eves: on casas are few and so are
the harees for the lackmarkating of tobacee In Japan, the tobacco
monopoty prosesis are tmdispersable for severtneet finance. and aigh
vobaces taxes muar be watovaired Under the sirrun stances we cannot
help catt es if e tobcer vvereree apder prevate manegement.
tnstese of government monenely w.l te abte to measure up to the
present ruge froanel rtqr rerente eapecially n vrew of the present
aiseeeregrng situatren cn tbe natlon s tex celleetion.
The oocord questlen as whether st wil be possible for us to get
tebocso et lower prtees if aaa when the sovernment to-pravate chenge-
over ef t bacce enterprtse maregement ss enforeed
The reason tobacco
prtees ere prssentlp sell ag at exopbatastty high prices is that the
prrsee are fixed bigh so meet the nateen a Sinsneru cequerements.
and mnt that the tobaceo manufecturine cost is movong upwerd as is
the case with p ve shepr
To fast the pam tacturing cost f a pack er tPeace" cigarettes
now selling at 60 yen is cnly 5 48 yom Although the tobacce enter-
prise is currently placed under the government moncpoly there is
mueh to be criticiaed in the government's price poliey. This much is
true, however, that there is no roen for further priee cut through
manufacturing cost reductior. as far as the nation a tobacco enter.
prise is concerned
Thirdly. there is a question as to whether there are possibili-
ties of the tobacco enterurise under private management being monopo-
lized by some entrepreneurs Already. a foreign voncern is said to
be reacy to march inte Japen with eyes on the control of the Japanese
tobacco enterprise
The infiltration of foreign capitei can be considered in two
forms: (i) The sale by the Government to a foreign firm of the
tcbacco monopoly right; (2) the authorization of foreign firms in
the management of tobacco enterprise on the same footing as Japanese
concerns. The latter form of foreign capital infiltration is more
likely to take place than the former, as far as the present aconomic
circumstances are concerned. However this may turn out, we must ask
ourselves if it is necessary and welcome for the Government to see a
huge amount
UNCLASSIFILD

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.80)
OC1TS+A
Enclosure No. 3
to Tokyo's Despateh No. 61z.
September E, 1949
3
huge amount of foreign cepitsl soming ints such e genuinely non-
essenttal enterprise having little to do with the tation's economic
rebacilitation
tt corron pueerns mell euarpped wath a mamoth stockpile of
toberro leavee wre peroritted to tmport thes snte this sounory under
the present foreige exelsngy coadatn ns they ere bousd to outsell
the Japanese cumpstitore As a resule t :s suite possible that the
sobeece of ebove wearm gualrty wilr by tecet ucler exelusive
cousre of shese soeorne roretcn sicme mns cigat justify to sone
exteet uhs pemoomtne thet the rerasee enterpre se aoder private managee
pent woll prevede tobeere of barter welety As a matter of fact, the
neer a tee eoteep fee so  so our pee be trans
     f   y
the rourt proer se t uvaliy ef srtg ap the
preseet moopety erterpr ea aepee ally rrom an ldeelosicel point of
e  o p  prepoty so has no peret backeround ef
        s
cenr be ke boever vo bes   po sbs te government
me see sueo ro bw to bgely patone the exastne moo.
p  y  a e e e syst.
Is co e  e ppoed eheeeover from govern
nent  rt rge f o a so epise
weyww r pe the sin
pely s   oe he e ' the p ser mooopoly
         b
 pe b w y re a v e  he wpreed
a e h  se mor as shs fo  bad
smpresatens for all :oneuretr besause of the cefeete of the monopely
system ateelf. Thay of emree should be remedied Tet we are
expressly oppes a to the severinent to private change -over of the
tobecco enmerprise maragerest at this moment
UNCLASS IF LED

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.86)
e
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
dge
OF THE
UNITED STATE: OF AMERICA
.Advise
(
mo  
894.60279-2049
APTH
FAP
ACTION COPY

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.80)
1949, frem the Office of the U. 8. Palitieal
Adviser fer Japan, Tokyo, en the mubject emeval
DELASSIED
of Certain Companies from the Sabedale ef.Re
stricted Conceras".
GENERAL HEADQU.RTERS
SUPREE COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 004( 17 S-p 49 )ESS/FTP
17 Scptember 1949
SCAPIN 2045
MELHORANDUM FOR: JAPANTLE GOVEHTT ENT
SUBJECT:
her oval or Certair. Companie: Pron. the Schedule of
ke. rretd Concern
1. Refere e the foilowin memorarda fer tie Ja anese Government
fron General Hea1p: ters, Supree Conmanler for the Allied Powers:
.4becemer1945,subject:
Establisment r a  ie o stri teu Concerns.
b.   40/A0, 01  10 Jaury 1946, sub
ct: : : alcturg ca, L end sucsiciaries
er scheaule  neer
c.  4. 1.  4A0, 0AP1 13, 14 arer. 1940, subject:
Addition of T- ra  etric Company, L.; Ja an hadio Company,
Itu.: oki sleetr C pam. .: Okt becuritie. Compane, Ltd.; Oki
Colaricatlon  r ntpan. Lta.; matsushita leetrie Inaustries
ompan. Lta.; d rn s. teti Compay, Lt; an their Sutsidiaries
and Affiliatee   mle cf restricted Concerns.
1.    1, .arh 140, subect:
additien of Sbsi ioriet of ruji Inuustrial Cormpany on Schedule of
Rest ricteu Gorcerr..
rlsubect
Adaitio. of Su er Yar a sosenna, l, to soh dule r Restricted
Concerns.
f. C.Crl 1940, subject:
cition  ede orstricted Concerns.
ect
ddition rtra anuiaror sumitomo
Honsna,L
Ler
1ect
Ana   tdule
of hes ricr
!. a. i: sut siaiaries
tonede
.3

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 00k( 17 Sep 49 )ESS/FTP,
SCAPIN 2045.
J. AG 004(25 May 46)88/AC, SCAPIN 982, 25 M 194
Adaition of Imperial Wining Development Company, Itd., ané
Certain Subsidiaries of Okura Mining Company, Ltd., and Certaim
sidiaries of Mitsubishi Honsha to Schedule of Restricted Coneerms.
k. AG 004(4 Jun 46)ZSS/AC, SCAPIN 998, 4 June 1946, 
Addition of Nippon Mail Steamship Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries; 
Commercial Steamship Company, Ltd., and Subsiciaries; and Yamashite 
ship Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries to Schedule of Restricted Conoerms.
1. AG 004(8 Jun 46) SS/6C, SCAPIN 1004, 8 June 1940, ubjoot:
Addition of Certain Textile Companies to Schedule of Restricted Conoerm.
m. AG 004(15 Jun 46)ESS/hC, SCAPIN 1024, 15 June 1946, subjct:
Adaition of Subsiuiaries of Kanegafuchi Industrial Company, Ltd., to
Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
n. AG 004(23 Jul 46)E5/AC, SCAPIN.1077, 23 July 1946, subjoct:
Addition of vaiwa Industr: Company, Lta., (Daiwa Kogyo K. K.), and Its
Subsidiaries to Schedule of hestricted Concerns.
0. AG 004(0 Nov 46)S5/AC, SCn?I: 132C, 6 November 1946, ub-
ject: nddition of Kove Steel Works, Ltd, (aobe Seikosho K. K.), and its
Subsidiaries to Scheuule of Restricted Concerns.
2. The following companies placed on the Schedule of Restricted
Concerns by reference memoranda, paragraphs la through lo, above, are
hereby removed from the Schedule of iestricteu Concerns, reference memo-
randwn la, above, ana auaitions thereto:
a. Jaito Spinning and eaving Compan, Ltu (Daito Boshoku K.K.)
b. Litsui riculture and Forestry Company, Ltd (itsui Norin
K.K.)
c. kitsui Oil and Fat Companj, Ltd (litsui Yushi Kagaku Kogyo
K.K.)
d. Sanyo Oil and Fat Company, Ltd (Sanyo Yushi K.K.)
e. Imperial Piston Ring Company, Ltd (Teikoku Piston Ring K.K.)
f. Japan Opticel Machine Industry, Lta (Nippon Koki Kogyo K.K.)
g. Kova Cotton Spinning Company, Ltd (Kowa Baseki K.K.)
h. Kiryu Refrigerating Company, Ltd (Kiryu Seihyo Toka Kogyo K.K.)
2

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 004( 17 80p 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2045
i. Sato Iron Works, Ltd (Sato Tekkosho K.K.)
j. Asahi Electro-Chemical Industry, Ltd (Asahi Denke 
k. Chiyoda Electric Wire Company, Ltd (Chiyoda Densen K.K.)
1. Japan Leather Company, Ltd (Nippon Hikaku K.K.)
m. Japan Shoe Manufacturing Company, Ltd (Nippon Seike Kogge
n. Taisei Construction Compan:, Ltd (former Okura Engineering
Works, Ltd) (Taisei Kensetsu K.K.)
o. Choya Shirt Manufacturing Company, Ltd (Choya Shatsu Seiso
K.K.)
p. Riken Electric Vire Company, Lta (Riken Densen K.K.)
q. Hitachi Water Vorks Company, Ltd (Hitachi Suido K.K.)
r. Nippon hrtificial Graphite Company, Ltd (Nippon Jinso Kokuen
K.K.)
s. Rissho Electric Machine Vorks, Ltd (Rissho Denki Seisakusho
K.K.)
t. Daido Paper Company, Lta (K.K. vaido Yoshiten)
u. Fuji Paper Company, Ltd (K.K. Fuji Yoshiten)
v. Nakai Shoten, Ltd (K.K. NMakai Shoten)
w. Japan Art Paper Manufacturing Company, Lta (Nippon Kako
Seishi K.k.)
x. Japan-Wire Netting (Cloth) Company, Ltd (Nippon Kanaami K.K.)
y. Tokyo Ota Electric Machinery Company, Lta (Tokyo Ota Denki K.K.)
z. katsushita Lumber Company, Ltd (Matsushita Kokuzai K.K.)
aa. Tsujinaka (former Matsushita) !ining Company, Ltd (Tmujinaks
Kogyo K.K.)
ab. Nittetsu Yawata Harbor Transportation Company, Lta (Nittetu
Yawata Koun K.K.)
3

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 004(17 80p 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2045.
ac. Kaga Industrial Company, Ltd (former Yamanake aise
Industry) (Kaga Sangyo K.K.)
ad. Fukuoka Bank, Ltd (Fukuoka Ginko K.K.)
ae. Hokkai Provision Company, Ltd (Hokkai Shokuhin Kogge
af. Maruzen Petroleum Refining Company, Ltd (arusen Sekiy 
ag. Nasu nluminum ares Manufacturing Company, Ltd (Nau
Aluminium Seizo K.K.)
ah. Toyo Nitrogen Industry, Ltd (Toyo Chisso Kogyo K.K.)
ai. Sonoike Engineering Vorks, Ltd (Sonoike Seisakusho K.K.)
aj. Nissan Chemical Machine Company, Ltd (Nissan Kagaku Kikai K..)
ak. Wakamatsu Harbor Construction Company, Ltd (iakamatsu Chikko
K.K.)
al. Imperial mining Development Kawaguchi vorks, Ltd (Teikoku
Kohatsu Kawaguchi Kosakusho Y.K.)
am. Otaru Transport Operations Company, Lta (Otaru Koun Sagyo K.K.)
an. zuma Shipping (Karine Transport) Company, Ltd (azuma Kaiun
K.K.)
ao. Japan Sea Steamship Company, Ltd (Nihonkai Kisen K.K.)
ap. Kansai Steamship Company, Ltd (Kansai Steamship K.K.)
aq. Nakagawa Steamship Coapany, Ltu (lakagawa Kisen K.K.)
ar. Tosa Commercial Steamship Company, Ltc (Tosa Shosen K.K.)
as. nshimori Inaustry, Lta (nshimori Kogyo K.K.)
at. Kyowa Inaustrial Company, Ltc (former Toa Chemical Industrial
Co.) (Kyowa Sangyo K.K.)
au. Shinko Industrial Company, Ltd (Shinko Sangyo K.K.)
av. Toyo Rubber (Treatment) Industry, Ltd (Toyo Gomu Kogyo K.K.)
aw. Yamahatsu Industry, Ltd (Ysmahatsu Kogyo K.K.)

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.90)
4G 004( 17 ScD 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2045
ax. Tatsumi Industry, Ltd (Tatsumi Kogyo K.K.)
ay. Japan Synthetic Chemical Industry, Ltd (Nippon Gosei Kagaku
Kogyo K.K.)
az. Kanegafuchi Trading (former Textile Sales) Company, Ltd
(Kanegafuchi Shoji K.K.)
ba. vainichi Industry, Lt: (Dainichi Koo t.k.)
rb. tigawa Electric Inaustry. Ltd (Ibi awa Denki Koeo K.K.)
bc. Spinnint cnine nufacturin, (forrr Toa Letal) Company,
Ltd (Boki beizc K.h.)
bd. Husnu lywocu Company, Ltu (kyushu Goban .K.)
be. Gurie Te.tile al.s Conpan., Ltu (Gunze Sen-I Hambai K.K.)
br. Eyov hoolen shipbuildiny Company (Tormer Kyowa Heavy Indus-
tr), It (kw Loxen ..)
L. Yai Comical Inuustry, Ltd (Yenai Kegaxu Kogyo K.K.)
bh. Yanai In.n try, Lta (Yanai Kogo n.n.)
bi. hotubuki einp Company. Lte (Kotcbuki Senko R.n.)
uj. Tokai y ine Compary, Lta (Tokei b nko n.k.)
b. banxin I. rial Comp . It Tbarkir. Koc F..)
bl. Alite Industrial Company, Ltu (Arumaite Kogyo K.k.)
tm. Sanyu Treuing Company, Lta (Sanyu shokusan A.k.)
br. Nagata Tron orks, Ltc (foner General Machinery Co.)
(Nagata Tekkosho H.Y.)
bo. H.rita vockyaru, Ltd (Hai ina Zorensho ....
FOR T SUPD  COLNLER:
agTiehe
Colon 1, AGD
Ad jutant Gneral
5

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.84)
rit ulska
THE POREIGN SERVINS
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMBRICA
Action Orficu Syabol
Mame of Officer -....
for Japan
Direotion to DC/R
No. 776
fo yo, November 7, 1949
REC'D
RISTRICTED
NOV 14
Sul jest: Status of Pr pes I t, Jur Cver Japanese
IP
PobeeI  t Priy te Poragoment.
FR
Ihe Actine Pitical Aist:  v homor to refer to this
issiom's  sputeh n.  late' src, l949, entltled
894.602/11-749
"Disot ssiors tetween Phina- L cco Sompany nd the
pem Pnepoly rthie r orrtim,'  shie reference wes made
ARI
 r posal pat forth
 Yeshida A ininistration to
2O.
2.5
owr mge 
n oly to private
i ler lo or pesition is
m.503194
urtin anti-
in opposition
sed  copy of an
Hi appeared in
lish-language
15.ius.
t philit n the
 st h Japanes
si s will be maintained
S…)]
t Prerier shl  ru is r soive te rn the tobacco mono-
 ver t) prive
ficer f this Pission was
AGUDA
 shichi, Jtinet Secretary,
cessary enatling
itn ir
Piet sussion widch opens
te lilt think
  ionepert with re
994.61331
tions served o shelve
'y him that private
cheaper cigarettes
I rin in a cut the
utedbyFr.il
kauel, reprousentativ f the china-rurican paf Pobacco Coppeny
it the Jpan Putlie Yonopxl rr.  in? mation concernir
hiven inr.f ren
, it will be noted that
 inport nee s trsirdsit despatch wawi
ITENATION, RESOUBGES OVISIGN
Regarding
NOV 20 1949
RESARIOND
DEPAITNENT OF STATE
ACTION COPY
RITURN TO DO/& PILE WITIN 14 DATS, WITE A MOTATION OF LOBON TA

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.93)
Tolyo's Despatch . 776,
November 7, 1949.
-2-
Regarding Mr. berueh's lett of August 24, 1949, suoted in the
despatch and aIdressed to . Frayue EATi, xecutive Chairman of
the Foreign Investsent Loard, Economic nd Scientific Section,
General Head puarters, in Mhich Yr. Jaruch: askea permi ssion to im-
port for the tobacco monopoly 5,000 to 10, 000 kilograms of American
leaf tobacco, it may be added tlet the Board took favorable action.
According to an official of the Soard, Er. Baruch was recently per-
6
mitted to import 20, 000 pounds of leaf tebacco for sale to the mono-
poly for "experimental puoposes." The yen proceeds derived from
this sale, it was ruled, may te used  Tir. Earveh only for the pur-
pose of meeting local expenses.
Enelosure:
Copy of editorial entitled "inocher
Grack-Pee Plan" from Cetober 24,
1949, issue of Lipeon Tines, Toigo
Pareiment mat to the Department.
552.3
CHBoelringer:lee
RESPRICTED

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.94)
el surc to Despatch No. 776, of
Hovember 7, 1949, from the Office of
the U. S. Political Adviser for Japan,
UNCLASSIFIED
Tolyo, on the subject "Status of Pro-
posal to Turn Over Japanese Tobacco
Honopoly to Private Management."
(Copy of editos 1 Po otober 24, 1949
issue of she  ipe Pines, Tokyo)
ANOHER CRACK-POT PLAN
Taking advantage of tre people's dlissatisfaction with their
present high-priced, unsavory cigarettes and tot.cce, the Yoshida
Government and the Domeeratie-Libeval Porty have been promising.
since last spring to turn the tobacco monepely sver to private
maragement. The fiction has buer corefully spreed that the plac-
ing of the tobacco industry into privale hanis vouli automatically
in sure the people o? el eaper and higher phality smohes. Eut will it?
The Government Lis delegated the tesk of drafting a plan for
the tro nsfer of the tobseeo monopely bo the Teporary Yonopely
Syst em Council. Phe council is scid to be contamplating a proposal
to retain the present overmaent mr epely ver the leaf tobacco at
its source and to turn the manufacture and sules ef the finished
rocucts to the private entre weneirs. This pler may look plausible
on paper but the facts sbow tl at it is just cnother crack-pot plan.
There is no doubt tat the peeple crs not sotisfied with the
tobacco industry as it is pt present. It se ms that the whole
business of the tobncso monopoly is devotcd to the purpese of gain-
ing revenves for the nutional tre sury. Unler  current bndget
the tax revenue from bob cee rans  bo  reeyestable and sizeable
sum of 120,000 milllon yon. Cn the aveue, 79 per sene of the co-
tail price of a package of cigaretse or processed tebacse goes for
taxes. In the case of the "Peace" brend, 3s per cent is taken for
taxes. It is no wonder th t the price of tob e. should be high
and the puslity so poer.
put will the tr pafor f the meut f cturi  preeesses to private
management res lt in better tole cce ut lover costs rd still insure
the overnment of a revly ineome of l2o ooc millien yen? The coun-
cil is apparently proposing tle collsction of tetes o. tobacco at
two stoges to sec that tl vernment vill bo le to meintain its
souree of reverue. A tex ll be coll-cte' firet ren she raw leaf
tobacco is sold to the private entrepronene und second when the
finished produet is turm d over to the w elesslers or retailers.
This will mean that the meufneturers must essentially work within
the present limits of the production cos's being expended by the
government's menopoly Luresu.
If taxes were to be re luced, there would be a chance for the
private manufacturers to spend more for the improvement of the gua-
lity and to reduce the price. Eut under bhe above circurstances,
they will bc limited to either prolueing and selling more or to
rationalize and streamline their production setup. But the situation
is thet they must first purchase or rent the factories now owned by
the
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
Enclosure to
Tokyo's Despat ch Yo. 776,
November 7, 1949.
-2 -
the government. The estimated cost of the plants is some 20,000
million yen. They must also have funds to purchase the leaf to-
bacco. The outlook for increased production under such col 'itions
seems hopeless.
Thinys are just as bad on the uestion of whether or not the
private ertrepreneurs could cut production costs. The bureaucracy,
to be sure, is notorious for its inefficiency. Eut the cost of pro-
ducing cigarettes has been pruned te just about rock bottor. For
a package of the "Peace' br und, for inst nce, the public pays 60 yen.
The actual cost of production, however, runs to only five yen 55 sen.
Cf that mount, two yen 99 son goes for raw leaf tobacco, one yen
23 sen for paper and package, an one yen 33 sen for labor costs.
The only place where the private entrepreneur might be a'le to cut
corner would be in labor costs, lut even tlat possibility is slim.
Another large iten which must be considered if the tobacco in-
dustry should be placed in private hands is the cost of advertise-
ment. In other countries, about 20 por cent of the cost of a pack-
ge of cigarettes goes for advertis ment und another 20 to 25 per
cent for handling. The private entrepreneur then adds about 10 per
cent for his profit. But as thins here are at present, private
enterpreneurs would lave a hrd time squeezing out advertisement
and landling expenses not to mention profits. Private enterprise
and investors will not o into the tot-cco business merely for
their health, and as matters st nd, the Govurnment may find itself
with a plan and no takers.
There is a need, of co rse, to give the snoking public good
gprality t  low price. But there is ne sense in rushing into
this with only a crach-pet plar. It seeas that t'e Governnent and
the Democratc-Liberal Party bave again pat the mstter of saving
face before common sense as in the case of rother of their public
promise to permit the free sale of rice under a oupon systen.
UNCLASSIFIED

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.96)
DIVISION JEM
Polad wT
PAPTMB
REUEIVD
ESS/AC, GHQ, SCAP
DEC13 1949
APO 500, c/o Postmastor
DIVIBIUN OF
San Francisco, California
5 December 1949
Far Eastern Division
State Department
Washington, D. C.
894.602/12-549
Gentlemen:
Under dateline of 2 December 1949, the.Inter-
YR
national News Service carried a story to the effect
that the United States, in a formal declaration of
policy, pledged itself to prevent any revival of
trade cartels in either Japan or Western Germany.
A copy of this statement would be greatly
appreciated.
Very truly youps,
Rand
Joseph
Joseph Rand
JR/jm
DEC13 1949
FILED
cem.
CS/ H
233033

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.96)
NAFle
CONFIDENTIAL
Office
To : FE - Mr. Buttorworth
FAR EASTERN AFF:
SUBJECT:
Report by Mk. Idward C. Welsh on "Demooratization of
Business Program" in Japan.
I am enclosing for your information a copy of the repert wmi
Mr. Welsh prepared for Mr. Voorhees on the above subjeet. There
1s also enolosed a memorandum whioh I requested Mr. Maynard te
prepare giving his comments on this subjeot.
In view of the desire of ITP, as I mentioned to you the
other day, to employ Mr. Welsh in the State Department as head
of their Anti-Cartels Beotion, I think you will be interested
in looking over the attached.
FE:NA:JMAll1son/pm
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON, D. C.
December 6, 1949
From:
David M. Maynarq
To:
Mr. John Alliso
Subject: Report on "Democrtization of Business Program"
I cannot agree with the conclusions implied in
Mr. Welsh's memorandum that the Occupation must be
indefinitely continued to carry out the "Democratization
of Business Program" in Japan.
I would agree that so far as Japan is concerned, or
any other nation for that matter, that war could not be
organized or waged without the cooperation of the
Zaibatsu or"big business and industry." It must be added,
however, that this does not mean that "big business" in
itself is necessarily responsible for the organization of
a war. I cannot agree that war in Japan was inevitable
"because of the actions of the Zaibatsu".
A number of Mr. Welsh's statements seem to me to be
too categorical. I cannot agree, for example, with the
statement "Japan has no experience in and its leaders
have no desire to experience democracy in business".
The program and accomplishments outlined by
2
Mr. Welsh in paragraph 2 (a-i inclusive) is impressive
and I believe represents as much  progress in the so-
called "Democratization of Business" as can be antici-
pated in any of the general 
 economic reform
programs launched by the Occupation.
The entire program outlined in Mr. Welsh's paper
could not be fully realized in Japan without a relatively
permanent occupation of Japan(and it may be added also,
without increasing the staff of the Anti-Trust and Cartel
Division). Needless to sey, I do not believe in this
policy and feel that the Japanese Government must take the
responsibility of carrying out what they, as elected repre-
sentatives of the Japanese people, feel is best for Japan.
The result will definitely not be all that the Anti-Trust
and

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
and Cartel Division would wish for, but the immediate strangl
hold of the Zaibatsu in Japan is broken and the Japanese people
have been given ideas of free competition.
Frankly, with the culture of Japan and the basic
problems of its economy, I predict that large scale business
and combinations will eventually again be the rule.
My recommendation would be to cut the Anti-Trust and
Cartel Division to not more than two or three persons by
July 1, 1950. These persons to advise and work with the
Japanese Government on general problems of fair trade
practices and Anti-monopoly legislation.
D.MMard
NEA:GTI:DMM-VTS

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
Jm
11/149
NH
Copy of report originally prepared for Mr.
Voorhees on his visit to Japan, not used, and
submitted at Mr. Voorhees'request to him recently
in Washington. Summary and conclusions are not to
be taken as views of GHR, SCAP and should be limited
to use within the Department. Rest of report may
be treated as unclassified.
NH

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.90)
EGONOMIG AND SGIENTIVIG SMPEZON
Anti-Trast and Cartels BMvésden
20 mgt 100
REPORT ON "DEMOCRATIZATION OF BUSINESS PROGBAN"
1. lackemnnd.
There are two major categories lato which the beekground fer
the "Demoeratisation of Basiness" program een te divided, 1. e., the
esonomie-legal-politieal structure and behavior of Japea's besiness and
the Oecupetion policies as to what should be done about smsh strestere
and behavior.
A few individuals as autocratic heads of a few families emert-
ed considerable control over the eeemomic behavior of the matiem by way
of having taken over a feedalistic setep and orgasising it iate a few
had to be removed from positions of influemse if demoeresy is Japem was
to beceme a remlity.
Lovever, the removal of the Zaibatsu is but ome phase of the
over-all program, since their works, their restrictive legislatiem.
still remain for others to exploit. Although individmal plaate ané
combinatioas of prodactive facilities were developed in asserdasse with
vise into the Zaibatsn concentrations for parposes of soatrol and net
of capital investmemt, employed through the technigue of the holding
compamy. the Zaibaten controlled directly about to of all imdmstrial-
fimancial-commercial activity. Indireetly, the magaitade of their
control was even greater through tight ovmership over strategle sesviees
as well as through domineat influence over soverzmeatal admisistretien.
The characteristic arrangement of these Zaibatse orgeaisatiems
was generally as follove: & Zaibateu family throngh a family helding
company comtrolled a commereial banking orgasisstion, a large trading
through the latter a large mamber of secondary and tertiary holding and
operating compenies. Attached to the latter were mmmerems sabsidiaries.
A large eembination smch as that fust outlined did mot met in eompe-
in the sme fiald of esonomic activity. The eemmereial benk of e
Zaibetse orgasiseties, but, rather, was set up to eentrel the flow of
erelit to members of that cbain of owmerakip and to maladadn threndh

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.93)
Réport a "Bemeersti satiee of Basisese Pregom"
folloved the gemerel peliey of making it extremely diffleult fer these
mot in the big cembise to mter sate besinese and them theg. ae the
in what ean best be dessribed as domestie eartels. their eartel as
lasurasee against having emk grevtà and epansien of esatsel belng at
each other's expemse. Infiltration, as well as d rest esatrel, as
regards the goverment bureawerasy perpetuated the foree of these ees-
comtrations.
This si tuation is in impressive coatrast with the ceememie
development of the United States. In the latter ccmmtry. freedem of
enterprise and the profit motive characterised the gemeral develepment
to suah an extent that companies of suffieiemt power to domimete the
economie and politioal life of the people of the sommtry were the es-
ception rather than the rule. The background of freedom of eompetitiem
supported by a sourt system and a representative soverment restreimed
the development of such domestic cartels. Hence, antitrust legislatiem
to act as a preventive and to maintain the chareeteristies of Amerieas
capitalim through handling the ereeptional siteation were all that
were necessary. On the other hand, in Japan antitrust legislatiom aleme
would of necessity have beem doomed to complete failure simee the majori-
ty of business was clearly organised and behaving in violatiem of the
prineiples of sach legislation. In fast, the ecomomie amd pelitieal
influence of the Zaibateu combines was of such magitude as te have pre-
vented any effective effort to enforce antitrust legislatien.
In addition, the major companies in Japam were bankrupt after
the war. Hesee, it was clear that if the totalitarias-govermmemtel and
the Zeibatsm-combine iafluenses were to be removed sussessfally is ues
essential that Japam's major corporations be made fimemsially seend.
This called for fimancial reorganisatiem of prestieally all of the majer
corporations in Japan.
Japan had no experience in and its leaders had mo desire to
experienee democracy in business. Nomopolies, eartels, restrietiems
against eatry into business, bribery as an accepted methed for besimess
to deal with sovernment, absence of fresdom of competitiom, absemse of
axy recourse in law or the courts for those prevented frem freedem ef
enterprise, concentration of equity control in holding eempenies and
of credit control through a few Zaibatse banks, ete., charasterised Japan
before, during. and after the war.
πc directives, based apon an uederstanding of the aati-deme-
cratie features of Japan's economy and upom a realisatiom that sush
organisations and behavior hed to be changed if Japam were to beseme a
peacefal member of the commmity of matioms, required that the imdas-
trial and banking combimes and the cartels, both domestie and inter-
national, be dissolved. Such directives required that Japam's fereigm
trade be conducted free of all contreets or arrangements whick would
foster monopolistic controls or economic comcentratioms, etc.
As these polisies have been uaderstoed and their implementatiem
undertaken, a many-faceted program was considered mecessary. Uadoubtel-
ly, this progrem was more ambitions than any other effort to make a
democratie eapitalim out of Japen. Certaizly, its maguitade was greater
than that of any other of the Oceupatiom's pregrems. It has resmlted in
the largest seeurities dispesal progrem in histery, the largest flses-
cial reorgesisatien progrem im héstery, the largest deseseemtratiem
perfomanse in a few years in any memepelistie eomtry, the first engem
ised effort to ehange a fascistie esesemy iste cme with freedem ef mter-
prise and competitiom in a fow years. the greatest cartel dieselutien and
liquidation progrem in Mistery. ete.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Report on "Democratisation ef Business Pregrem"
2. Outline or summary of the status of eaph of the
of this integrated programe
Zaibatau
direct supervision of the Supreme Commander fer the
Allied Powers, was established as a temporary agenay
for the purpose of carrying out the job of liquidasing
and dissolving their holding company operations.
(2) Fifty-seven (57) members of 1l families were desig
nated by HCLC, their secuwrities taken over fer disposal,
their expenditures budgeted on a quarterly-adjustable
basis, and their active participation in respomsible
industrial and commercial positions restricted. Several
of these persons have made application and ressived 
proval for the holding of positions as officers in
relatively small companies not connected with with the
combines controlled by such Zaibatsu persons. As their
securities, etc., are liquidated, taxes and other lia-
bilities are being paid off and the remainder is to be
turned back to them in the form of non-negotiable
government bonds.
(3)
Thirty-five per cent (35%) of the designated persons'
assets other than securities have been liquidated through
public sale and 40% of their liabilities disckarged.
b. Status of Zaibatsu Securities as of 31 July 1949
(1) Of the 166 million shares transferred to HCIC from
Zaibatsu companies and individuals, 42% (70 million
have been sold to employees, local residents, and
the general public; 14% (23 million) are shares im
companies being liquidated; 44% (73 million) remmin
to be sold. In addition, HCLC has disposed af 25 mil-
lion rights that accrued to certain of the abeve shares.
(2) Other Japanase Government agencies took over an ad-
ditional 160 million shares from closed, wartime enter
prises of which 25% (40 million shares) have been sold;
54% (87 million shares) are shares in companies to be
liquidated, and 21 (33 million shares) remain to be
sold. In addition, 13 million rights accruing to
certain of the above shares have been sold.
(3)
Practically all of the sharus (both HCLC and other
agencies) have been sold through the SCLC, a coordinst-
ing committee made up of representatives of the agensies
concerned. Total gross proceeds from SCIC sales total
10 billion of which *7 billion are proceeds frem mCLC
Zaibatsu securities.
(4) As of 31 July 1949, approximately 27% of the sheres
sold by SCLC had been sold to employees and loeal
residents of the stock issuing companies. This r
sents 16.5% of the total proceeds received from
of stocks. The remaining shares were sold by puki
and local tender, public sale, and underwriting
-3-

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.99)
Report on "Demoaratisation of Business Progrem"
(5) An intensive (newspaper, radio, poster, pamph
carried on nationwide to assist in acdeleratin
widespread security ownership campaign.
(6)
) In summary: 326 million shares were taken over fer
disposal, 110 million shares have been sold: 11o 
lion ahares are in liquidated companies or compamies te
tion and Reorganization Law. So far, 38 millien rigkts
have been sold.
Holding Companies
(1) Eighty-three (83) companies were designated under the
Holding Company Liquidation Commission Ordinance (Ordl-
nance No. 233 of 1946) as holding companies. of those
83 designated holding companies, 51 are combined oper-
ating and holding companies which were subsequently
designated as excessive concentrations of economie pewer
under Law No. 207 of 1947 (Deconcentration Law).
(2)
) of the 51 combined operating and holding companies
designated as excessive concentrations, nime have re-
ceived reorganization orders under Law No. 207 and 42
have had their designations as excessive concentrations
cancelled. The latter are still designated holding
companies under Ordinance No. 233 and are being divested
of their security holdings and other holding company
features.
(3)
) Thirty-two (32) of the 83 designated holding companies
are scheduled for complete dissolution and liquidatiom.
Twenty-eight (28) of those companies have been dissolved
and are in process of liquidation. The securities held
in the portfolios of these 32 companies are being liqui-
dated through the securities sales program referred te
above. Other assets, with a book value of approximately
¥6 billion, have been 60% liquidated and their liabilities
of approximately *7,500 million are 56% discharged.
(4)
Included in the 32 companies being dissolved and ligui-
dated are Mitsui Trading Company and Mitsubishi Trading
Company, the two largest trading companies in Japan.
Such liquidation is approximately 95% complete. Twe
hundred forty (240) new or existing companies have
succeeded to some of the business of the former Mitsui
and Mitsubishi Trading Companies through employment
of the officers and employees of those two companies.
(5) Large real estate holdings of the Honshas (family holding
companies) which are not readily susceptible of publie
sale are being disposed of through the establishmemt of
real estate companies for the purpose of expediting the
holding company liquidation program.
(6) One holding company out of the 32 being liqaidated has
completed its liquidation and is preparing te psy fimal
liquidation dividends to its shareholders inthe form of
10-year non-negotiable government bonds.

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.98)
Repert on "Demecratisation of Basiness Pregresd
d. Bestristed Cenesrne.
course of business so as to prevent dissipation af
assets until new stockholders had been eegaired. 
ing the two years prior to November, 194s am averege
week. Then, in November the restriction mas mediried
so that restricted companies were required to make ap-
tions has, as a consequence, dropped sharply and is new
approximately 50 per month.
(2) As securities held by HCLC are being sold, companies
are being removed from this restricted list. Se far,
367 such removals have been effected. The standerde
for removal call for disposal of HCIC-held shares,
disposal of portfolios of the companies in other cem-
panies in the same chain of capital, protection of
United Nations Nationals' interests, if any, and approval
of financial reorganisation plans under the B.R. & B. Lew.
Excessive Concentrations.
(1) In December, 1947, the Deconcentration Law (Publie Lew
No. 207) was passed for the purpose of designating and
reorganising excessive concentrations of economie
power, in accordance with official standards and pre-
cedures.
(2) Under this Law, 325 companies were designated. After
exasination of the filings required of such companies,
50 (15.4%) were removed as not meeting the offieial
standards of designation. As regards the remaining
companies, the following actions have been taken in
accordance with the "Four Points" of the Deconeentre-
tion Review Board: 245, or 75.4%, removed as not being
excessive concentrations; 2, or .6%, removed and closed
as control companies under other legislation; 11, er
3.4%, ordered to be divided into independent companies;
6, or 1.8%, ordered to divest certain properties or take
other action, but not required to be divided inte in-
dependent companies; 11, or 3.4, recommended for re-
organisation but orders not issued.
(3) Of the 17 companies (5.2%) which have been issued Orders
as excessive concentrations, eight will be reergemised
each. The other six will stay as six companies. Memse,
so far, 14 additional companies have been ordered under
the Deconcentration Law.
(4) Some of the major companies, which have been removed
intentions to reorganise structurally according te plen
submitted even though not required to do so under
Law.
(5) Companies removed from designation are being

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Report on "Demooratisation of Business Pregrem"
the surveillance of the Fair Trede Comelasiom
propriate action regarding restraints of
f. Control Aggogiations
ing such wartime agencies.
(2)
functions.
(3) Over 50,000 prefectural and local organisations axist
which may maintain economic controls. Appreximately
25,000 of these are in the field of agrioulture d fi
ing and are being liquidated or reorganised uader the
Agricultural Cooperative Law, Fisheriss Cooperative Law,
the Land Improvement Law, and other legislatien whish
has removed many of the undesirable compuleery festesres
of wartime legislation. Approximately s000 are heslth
insurancs organizations and are reorganising mder 
Another 5000 are in the field of forestry and are re-
Law. Four thousand (4000) associations exist in the field
of commerce and industry and are reorgamising under the
Smaller Enterprise Cooperative Union Law.
Financial Reorganizations
(1) The E.R. & R. Law, Law No. 40 of 1946, was passed fer
the purpose of requiring financial reorganisatien in the
form of a bankruptcy-type procedure for the purpose of
establishing financially sound companies where war lesses
were sustained.
(2)
) Of these 4990 so-called "special accounting" compenies,
and are in process of execution thereef. Those appreved
plans call for the issuance by the ∞mpanies of 24,485
million additional capital, of which 19,624 milliom is
increase of capital of existing companies and 34,860 mil-
lion is new company capitalisation.
(3) Since plans of the remaining 496 companies yet to be
approved involve some of the largest compemies in Japan,
1t is expected that approximately 15,000 to $20,000
million additional capital will be issued as integral
feature of such reorganisations.
h. Fair Trade Legislation and Lmplementation
(1) Two basic permanent laws were passed, 1.e., Anti-Memepel
Law (Public Law No. 54) in April, 1947 and Trade
ation Law (Publio Law No. 19l) in July, 1948. An
1949 revising the Anti-Monopoly Law. In
finaneial natare to smaller enter

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
Report on "Demooratisetion of Busimess Pregrem"
adainister the ati-lonopely La and alee
United States and the Pair Trede Practiees C
jurisdiction and procedures similar to these
Federal Trade Commission and the Anti-Trust Divislm
the Justioe Department in the United States).
(3) During the first 24 months of operation, the Pc h
try studies; issued 17 hearing-noticbes processed 1l,701
applications; received stook disposel plans frem sesi
companies covering 69,883,704 shares of steeks of whick
28 million shares have been sold; received 2se dissolm-
tion plans from 234 control organisationss obtaim
filings from 81, 200 organisations under the Trede Asssst-
ation Law; processed 46 applications under the trede
Association Law; and issued 35 formal opinions te other
governmental agenoiese
(4)
Seventeen (17) new lers were passed as a consequemee 
Anti-Monopoly legislation to bring about conformity with
its provisions and 29 laws were repealed as being in
conflict with the Anti-Monopoly Lam. In addition, 21
laws and Cabinet Ordinances were enected to assist in
the implementetion, eto., of the Anti-Monopoly Lew.
i. Other Legislation
(1) Twenty (20) pre-war and wartime economic control 1ews
have been repealed and nine other suoh lewe mended
in order to eliminate specifio private contrels. to
provide basis for freedom of entry into distributive
fields partioularly. eto.
(2) Continuous program is being carried out to identiry d
•liminate laws and legal provisions whioh allow for
unreasonable disorimination against foreigm investers.
(3) Continuous program is being carried out to elimimate
where practical and to reduce otherwise the Kodems
which are temporary government corporations established
to carry out emergency governmental funotione which
had been performed in large measure by private contrel
associations.
(4) Commeroial Code is under revision and bankruptey legisleti
is in preparation.
J. Goneral
(1) Polioy and procedure for restitution of seourities to
former United Nations Nationals was developed,
ed, and is being implemented with the Civil Pr
Custodin.
(2) Trede-mark, trade name, and company name pre
eliminate in the most equitable manner pessit
major "ccate of arms" of Zaibatou which ref
centrations of pemer.

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.96)
Méport on "Democratisation of Business Pregrem"
inoreased efrielemey in allocetions by Jepa
mont.
to a system of free enterprise and capitalistie
oreoy. Instanoes are:
(a) Proposed enaotment of legislation to establishe
national pubbio utilities commission to regulate
Japan's gas and electric publio utilities d te
adopting this course of regulating industries
which by their very nature do not lend themeelves
to competition for the business of the 
consumer, rather than e course cf socialisation
or government ownerhsip.
(b)
Proposed enactment of legisletion regulating the
tunity for free entry into such busimess and se
as to remove and prohibit government owmerehip is
present government-sponsored and thirdpoumed
freight forwarding monopoly (conocmitamt to estiem
to be taken to eliminate such monopoly pursusmt to
the provisions of Law Mo. 207 of 1947: Lam for
Flimination of Exoessive Conoentration of Becmemie
Power).
(c) Continued action in the implementation of I
No. 207 of 1947: Law for Elimination of Mzeessive
Concentration of Boonomie Power, by way of Pimel
Orders issued by HCLC, prohibitimg issuamee ef
stook by reorganized companies to national geverm-
ment and, in one instance, to e prefeetural goverme
mont.
(d) Institution of program to examine and analyse
facts of ownership of stook in private eompamies
by prefectural governments, sinee resulting eomtrol
may be as destruotive of competition as natiomal
government ownership.
(5) Continuous program to revemp goverment monopolies of
scarce commodities to the end that suoh monopolies shall
extend no further than required. Instanoes are eneet
ment of legislation to reconstitute omphor, tobacee.
and liquor monopolies so that role of govermemt be eire
cumscribed to extent absolutely required to husband d
distribute scaroe indigenous supplies.
present or future econcmie or political discrimimatie
and to the end that suoh investment and skills set as
a oompetitive spur to the Japamess economy and pro
ive plant; yet without agresments in restraimt of
(7) Participation in tax planning progrm to the

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
Report on "Demooratisation of Business Pregrem"
Japanese tax system shall not operat som
discriminate against mall business and an
of large industrial orgamisatiomes
that any revision shall not undo healtky
corporate reorganisation being earried
to the provisions of Lew No. 40 of 1946 (
Reconstruction and Reorganisation Lew).
3. Summary and Conclusions
a. Major problems confronting the progrm are as followes
(1) Growing resistance on the part of the present Japamese
Government to have their special privileges and the
controls of their powerful friends diminished.
(2) Support of this undemooratic Japanese movement by
non-Japanese who also oppose freedom of competitiom
and freedom of enterprise outside Japan.
(3) Misunderstanding on the part of some and payment of
lip service on the part of others to the idea that
economic recovery in Japan is in confliet with the
development of democratic capitalim.
(4) Misunderstanding on the part of some and deliberate
compounding of the confused idea on the part of
others that the progrem has been about completed and
that Japan has practically over night beeeme free ef
cartels and combines and Zaibatsu influenees and
restraints of trade and govermment ownership im and
control over private business.
b. Current actions are not being taken to resolve the problems
briefed above. In fact, the general move to turn over inoreasing automeny
to the Japanese Government in these matters, before even the bade phases
have been completed, is a major action toward defeating the possibility
of any important and permanent democratic effects of the progrem. If the
program is killed now, it will mean that muoh of the Amerioem texpeyers
money intended to help develop a democratio Japan has been wasted.
The program is under way. It is far from oompleted. Complete
loss of the advances made is easier than any forward progress, but a re-
affirmation of the firm position taken in the polidy direstives will make
such progress possible. Unfortunately, it must be treated as faet that
a) the least relaxation of viligance on the part of this Beadquarters will
result in a deorease of freedom of enterprise and a re-creation of the
worst elements of the pre-war and wartime regime, and b) the Japanese Gevern-
ment will not carry out any of the deconcentration orders nor will it elimi-
nate monopolistic logislation or other aspects of the progrem without being
roquired to do so.
o. Future actions planned. If the Occupation determines to over-
ride the opposition to demooracy in business, it is planned to ocmplete the
dissolution of holding companies and the finanoiel reorganization of cerper-
ations, inorease the activities of the Fair Trade Commission, complete the
publio sale of cerporate securities held by the govermment, eliminate the

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.90)
ort  "Demoeratisation f Busimess Pregrm"
mohépoli stio logi alati on still on the "boeku" of the Japemeee
astion which enables some members of the majority to reelise e
fite from demooraey in business weakems slightly the priviloged
the controlling minority. However, many mere experiemees ef
are meesseary if demooracy is to have a real chemee.
EDWARD C. WELSH
Chief, Anti-Trust and Cartels Divisicn
- 10 -

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.88)
THE FORDEN SEVEE
OF THE
STATES OF AMERIGA
DIVISON
NORTH ASTA
d P
894.602/12-649
for Japan
Tokyg December 6. 1949.
,0.854
DCRFe
1
REC 'D
VICLASSIFID
DEC 13
ACTION
FEren:
Subject: Removal of Certain Companlen from the Schedule of
INFO
Restricted Conceras. and Release of Certain Coganies
FR
from Limitation f Activ:ties and Report Requiremonts.
DCR
I-ere
T-enc
CUM-enc
OFD-enc
The Actny Politicar Adviser has the henor to refer to thie
Micsion'e despatch ne 651 of Seutenter 20 4s. Romoval of
Certain Compan:es fron the Scheduie f Reetricted Concern
and  eriue da s   same sl ject and to forard
five ctef  f wine Sca men anda for she Japenes
GrmeySAP N 2 49 Relat of
894.602
Cen fA le and Report
2
Requtremen:s' aci SCaPiN E e he same date Reneval of
Certain C.mparies f m he Sc-de f Restricted Concern.
As was the ae: w SCAp me.randa forwarded with do
 nd  SA 2058 rl
yecified compantes fr m che scled: le f restricted concerns.
L0 per cent or mere f whose  x was eia by hoidirg copanies
des:gna ed for liqu: dation ScapiN 2' auplies to companie
wh:ch. whl e no" Za: ra wu af aie were deesed of ouffi
cieprtances ede sme controle  re
tr:ed coccerne. ide: SchpiN o. al: companie c desig
nated are ead e and repcriing requir
mento
Encicnres
E f SCAFIN 205f
November 22. 144
2
5 copis f SAPIN 2: of
November 22 134
Parchmen: Mat to e Department
MAR15
FILED
510.1
BoSeidensticker. Jr :keb
王
UNCLASSIFIED
TIQN 
RETURN TO DO/B FILES WITEDN 4 DATS. WITE A MOTATBON OF AOERON A

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG 004( 22 Nov 49 )ESS/FTP
22 November 1949
SCAPIN 2057
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Release of Certain Companies from Limitation of
Activities ana Report Requirements
1. Reference the following memoranda for the Japanese Government
from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers:
a. AG O04(8 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCaPIN 1008, 8 June 1946, subjoct:
Limitation of Activities of and Requiring of Reports from Certain Concern
b. AG 004(23 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1035, 23 June 1946, subJoct:
Limitation of Activities of and Requiring of keports from Kawaminami
Industrial Company, Ltd., and Its Subsidiaries.
c. AG 004(23 Jul 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1078, 23 July 1946, subjoct6
Limitation of Activities of and Requiring of Reperts from Riken Institute
of Physical and Chemical Research (Rikagaku Kenkyu-sho).
d. AG 004(10 Dec 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1388, 10 December 1946,
subject: Limitation of Activities of and Requiring Reports from Ishikawa-
jima Heavy Industries Company, Ltd, (Ishikawajima Jukogyo K. K.) and its
Subsidiaries.
2. The following companies, whose activities have been limited and
from whom reports have been required by the provisiens of reference
memoranda, paragraphs la, b, c, and d, above, are hereby released from
such limitatiens and are no longer required to make such reports:
a. Kanzaki Lumber Industry, Ltd (former Saikai Aircraft) (Kanzakai
Mokuzai Kogyo K.K.)
b. Imperial Shipbuilding Company, Ltd (Teikoku Zosen K.K.)
c. Kawasaki Industry, Ltd (former Kawasaki Textile Works) (Kawa-
saki Kogyo K.K.)
d. Shimazaki Weaving Company, Ltd (Shimazaki Orimono K.K.)
e. Takada Machine Inaustry. Ltd (Takada Kiko K.K.)
f. Daishoji Industry, Ltd (former Takada Precision Industry)
(Daishoji Kogyo K.K.)

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.98)
G OC4(22 NOV 49 )ES9/FTP
GOAPEN 2067
g. To-a Iron Works, Ltd (K.K. To-a Tekkoaho)
h. Toho Dyeing Company, Ltd (Toho Senshoku K.K.)
i. Yamanouchi Industry, Ltd (former Yamanouchi Airereft Co.)
(Yamanouchi Kogyo K.K.)
j. Asahi Silk Weaving Company, Ltd (Asahi Kenahoku K.K.)
k. Ashu Starch Industry, Ltd (Ashu Denpun Kogyo K.K.)
1. Korea Printing Industry, Ltd (Chosen Nasen Kogyo K.K.)
m. Bika (Meihua) Printing and Dyeing Werks, Ltd (Bika Insanaho K.K.).
n. Daimaru Textile (Cloth) Products Company, Ltd (Daimaru Fubaku
Seihin K.K.)
o. Yenching Sewing Works, Ltd (Enkyo Clothing Company) (Enkyo.
Hifukusho K.K.)
p. Keihoku Weaving Company, Lta (Keihoku Kogyo K.K.)
q. Keiki Dyeing Works, Ltd (Keiki Senshoku K.K.)
r. Koa uyeing and Weaving Company, Ltd (Koa Senshoku K.K.)
s. Kwantung Umbrell: Manufacturing Campany, Ltd (Kantoshu Yogasa
Seizo K.K.)
t. hwantung Textile Goods (lietving) Conpeny, Ltu (Kentoshu San-1
Suihin K.K.)
u. Kyowa Trading Company, Ltd (ayon: Shoko K.K.)
v. Manchuria Cureal Industry, Ltd (Manshu Kokumotsu Kogyo K.K.)
w. Manchuria Wild Sericulturc (Himasan) Company, Ltd (Manshu
Himasan K.K.)
x. Meiko Dyeing and lieaving Works, Ltd (Meiko Senshoku K.K.)
y. Nanboku Cotton Industry, Ltd (Nanboku engy• K.K.)
z. Shanghai Electric orks, Ltd (Shanghai Dengyosho K.K.)
aa. Shanghai Spinning and Weaving Company, Ltd (Shanghai Bomhoku
K.K.)
2

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 004(22 Nov 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2057
ab. Nanman (South Manchuria) Hosiery Company, Ltd (Nanman
Meriyasu K.K.)
ac. Toa Industry, Ltd (Toa Kogyo K.K.)
ad. Tomen Chemical Industry, Lta (Tomen Kasei Kogyo K.K.)
ae. Tomen Spinning and Werving Company, Ltd (Tomen Boshoku K.K.)
af. Tosei Weeving Works, Ltd (Kosho) (Tosei Koaho K.K.)
ag. Towa Industry, Ltd (Towa Kogyo K.K.)
ah. Toyo Fibre Industry, Ltd (Toyo Sen-i Kogyo K.K.)
ai. Tsu Ki Go (Tsu Ki Go)
aj. Imperial Sulphur Company, Ltd (Teikoku Iwo K.K.).
ak. Showa Industry, Ltd (Showa Kogyo K.K.)
al. Nankai Socks (Hose) Manufacturing Compeny, Ltd (Nankai
Kutsushita Seizosho K.K.)
am. Korea (Chosen) Mats Industry, Ltd (Chosen Iseihin K.K.)
an. Korea (Chosen) Oil Industry, Ltd (Chosen Seiyu Kogyo K.K.)
ao. Korea (Chosen) Processed Textile Company, Lta (Chosen Kakoo
Shokufu K.K.)
ap. Japan-Manchuria Flax Spinning Company, Ltd (Nichi-Man Bohma.K.K.)
aq. Manchuria-Japan Flax Spinning Company, Ltd (Man-Nichi Ama
Boshoku K.K.)
ar. Shinchiku Spinning Company, Ltd (Shinchiku Boshoku K.K.)
as. Kawaminami Industry, Ltd (Kawaminami Kogyo K.K.)
at: Kyushu (former Kawaminami) Engineering and Construction Com-
pany, Ltd (Kyushu Doboku Kenchiku K.K.)
au. Kitagawa Iron Works, Ltd (Kitagawa Tekkoshe K.K.)
av. Nampyo Coal Mine Company, Ltd (Nampyo Tanko K.K.)
3

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
AQ:004( 22 N0V 49 )ES8/FTP
SCAPIN 2057
aw.- Riken Institute of Physical and Chemical Reams
Kenkyu-jo)
ax. Ishikawajima Heavy Industries, Ltd.(Isbikewajime.
ay. Ishikawajima Industry, Ltd (Ishikawajima Sangyo K.k.)
az. Ishikawajima Precision Machinery Company, Ltd (Iskikew
Seiki K.K.)
ba. Tokyo Shipbuilding Works, Ltd (Tokyo Zosen K.K.)
bb. Manchuria Ishikawajima Heavy Industry Company, Ltd (Manah
Ishikawajima Jukogyo K.K.)
bc. Mukden Engineering Works, Ltd (Hoten Seisakusho K.K.)
FOR THE SUPREME COMMANDER:
KBBush
K: B. BSH
Brigadier General, AGD
Adjutant General
4

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
GENERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG O04( 22 Nov 49 )ESS/FTP
22 November
SCAPIN 2058
MEMORANDUM FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Removal of Certain Companies from the Schedule of
Restricted Concerns
1. Reference the following memoranda for the Japanese Govermment
from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers:
a.' AG 004(8 Dec 45)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 403, 8 December 1945, sub
Establishment of a Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
b. AG 004(10 Jan 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 572, 10 January 1946, ub
ject: Addition of Oji Paper Manufacturing Company, Ltd. and Subsidiari
 Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
c. AG O04(14 Mar 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 813, 14 March 1946, subj0
Addition of Tokyo-Shibaura Electric Company, Ltd.; Japan Radio Company
Ltd.; Oki Electric Company, Ltd.; Oki Securities Company, Ltd.; Oki
Communications Instrument Company, Ltd.; Matsushita Electric Industries
Company, Ltd.; Japan Iron and Steel Company, Ltd.; and their Subsidiaries
and Affiliates to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
d. AG 004(20 Mar 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 831, 20 March 1946, subject
Addition of Subsidiaries of Fuji Industrial Company on Schedule of
Restricted Concerns.
e. AG 004(22 Mar 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 835, 22 March 1946, subject:
Addition of Onoda Cement Company, Ltd. to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
f. AG 004(22 Apr 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 893, 22 April 1946, 8ubject:
Addition of Subsidiaries of Mitsui Honsha to Schedule of Restricted Con-
cerns.
ε. AG 004(25 May 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 982, 25 May 1946, subject:
Addition of Imperial Mining Development Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries;
Certain Subsidiaries of Okura Mining Company, Ltd., and Certain Sub-
sidiaries of Mitsubishi Honsha to Schedule of Restristed Concerns.
h. AG 004(4 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 998, 4 June 1946, subjeot:
Addition of Nippon Mail Steamship Compan, Ltd., and Subsiaiaries; Osaka
Cemmercial Steamship Company, Ltd., and Subsiciaries; and Yamashita Steam-
ship Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries to Schedule of Restricted Concern,

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 004( 22 Nov 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2058
1. AG 004(8 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1004, 8 June 1946
Addition of Certain Textile Companies to Schedule of Restrict
J. AG 004(15 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1024, 15 J 196
Addition of Subsiaiaries of Kanegafuchi Industrial Company,
Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
k.. AG 004(23 Jul 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1077, 23 July 1946, ubjoot
Addition of Daiwa Industry Company, Ltd., (Daiwa Kogyo K. K.), and It
Subsidiaries to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
1. AG 004(6 Nov 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1320, 6 November 1940, sub-
ject: .Addition of Kobe Steel Works, Ltd, (Kobe Seikoshe K. K.), and ita
Subsidiaries to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
m. AG O95(8 Jul 47)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1743, 8 July 1947, subJoct
Addition of Ube. Industrial Company, Ltd (Ube Kosan K. K.), to the Schodul
of Restricted Cencerns.
2. The following companies placed on the Schedule of Restricted Con-
cerns by reference memoranda, paragraphs la through lm, above, are hereby:
removed from the Schedule of Restricted Concerns, reference memorandum la,
above, and additions thereto:
a. Japan Flour Mills Company, Ltd (Nippon Seifun Sho K.K.)
b. Mitsui Lumber Company, Lta (Mitsui Mokuzai K.K.)
c. Mitsui Real Estate Company, Ltd (Mitsui Fudosan K.K.)
d. Toyo Cotton Company, Lta (Toyo Menka K.K.).
e. Toyo Hosiery (Knitting and Weaving) Company, Ltd (Toyo
Henshoku K.K.)
f. Miitsubishi Paper Mills, Ltd (Mitsubishi Seishi K.K.)
g. Nippon Aluminun Manufacturing Company, Ltq (former Mitsubishi
Light Metal Alloy Industry, Ltd ) (Nippon Aluminiumu Kogyo K.K.)
h. Nippon Engineering (former Sumitomo Land and Works) Company,
Ltd (Nippon Kensetsu Sangyo K.K.)
i. Japan Sheet-Glass (Nippon Plate-Glass) Company, Lta (Nippon
Itagarasu K.K.)
j. Taiyo (former Yasuda) Warehouse Company, Ltu (Taiyo Soko KK)
2

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
AG 004(22 Nov 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2058
k. Toa Harbour Industry, Ltd (Toa Kowan Kogyo K.K.)
1. Shibusawa Warehouse, Ltd (Shibusawa Soko K.K.)
m. Toa Paint Company, Ltd (former Toa or East Asia Chemioml
Industry, Ltd) (Toa Paint K.K.)
n. Nisshin Electrification Company, Ltd (fomer Teikoku Mag
sium Co.) (Nisshin Denka K.K.)
o. Ohama Colliery Company, Ltd (Ohama Tanko K.K.)
p. Hitachi Shipbuilding Company, Ltd (Hitachi Zosen K.K.)
q. Toki (Toky) Kiki) Industry, Ltd (Toki Kegyo K.K.)
r. Nissan Construction (Civil Engineering) Company, Ltd
(Nissan Doboku K.K.)
s.. Japan Shipbuilding Company, Ltd (Nippon Zosen K.K.)
t. Japan Real Estate and Securities Company, Lta (Nippon Tochi
Shoken K.K.)
u. Japan Felt Company, Ltd (Nippon Felt K.K.)
v. Kawashima Paper Company, Ltd (Kawashima Yoshiten K.K.)
w. Senju Industry Company, Ltd (former Oji Arms Co.) (Senju
Kogyo K.K.)
x. Tohoku Development Pulp Company, Ltd (Tohoku Shinko Pulp K.K.)
y. Koa Optical Industry, Ltd (Koa Kogaku Kogyo K.K.)
z. Special Alloy Company, Ltd (Tokushu Gokin K.K.)
aa. Sugibayashi Graphite Manganese Company, Ltd (Sugibayashi
Kokuen Mangan K.K.)
ab. Kyushu Matsushita Electric Company, Ltd (Kyushu Matsushita
Dengyo K.K.)
ac. . Shoun Metal Industry, Ltd (Shoun Kinzoku Kogyo K.K.)
ad. Nittetsu Wanishi Harbor Transport Company, Ltd (Nittetsu
Wanishi Koun K.K.)
3

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
ae. Japan Hamalite Company, Ltd (Nippon Ham
af. Oneda Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd (Or
Seizo K.K.)
ag. Japan Fibre Industry, Ltd (former Toa Hemp Weavin
Ltd) (Nippon Seni K.K.)
ah. Kawasaki Wharf Company, Ltd (Kawasaki Futo K.K.)
ai. Toa (Black) Tea Company, Ltd (Tóa Seicha K.K.)
aj. Locomotive Rolling Stock Company, Ltd (Kisha Seiso K.k!)
ak. Edogawa Chemical Works, Ltd (Edogawa Kogyosha K.K.)
al. Hakodate Harbor Transport Company, Ltd (Hakodate Koun K.)
am. Amagasaki Harbor Construction Company, Ltd (Amagasaki Chik
K.K.)
Chukyo Shipping (Marine Transport) Company, Ltd (Chukyo
an.
Kaiun K.K.)
ao. Fuso Shipping (Marine Transport) Company, Ltd (Fuso Kaiun
ap. Naniwa Shipping (arine Transport) Company, Ltd (Naniw
Kaiun K.K.)
aq. Nippei Industrial Company, Ltd (Nippei Sangyo K.K.)
ar. Toyo Salvage Company, Ltd (Toyo Salvage K.K.).
as. Kokusai Building, Lta (K.K. Kokusai Building)
at. Osaka Building Company, Ltd (Osaka Tatemono K.K.)
au. Daien Chemical Industry, Ltd (Daien Kagaku. Kogye K.K.)
av. Koa Trading (Business) Company, Ltd (Koa Shoji K.K.)
aw. Rokuo Engineering (Pump Manufacturing) Works, Ltd (Rokuo
Seisakusho K.K.)
ax. Toyo (Oriental) Sulphur Industry, Ltd (Toyo Iwo Kogye K.K.)
ay. Special Light Metal Alloy Company, Ltd (Tokushu Keigokin
4

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.88)
7
AG 004(22 NoV 49 )ESS/FTP
SCAPIN 2058
az. Gunze Industrial Company, Ltd (Gunze Sangyo K.K.)
ta. Imptrial (Teikoku) Heat Treatment Company, Ltd (Teikoku
Netsu Shori K.k.)
bb. I.okusaku Pulp Company, Ltu (Kokusaku Pulp K.K.)
pc. Takizawa Fit re Company, Lta (Takizewa Sen-i K.K.)
r. Kuresniki Mining Conmpany, Lta (turashiki Kogyo K.K.)
te. Koue Silk Manufacturin, (former New Industrial Enterprise)
Company, Ltd (Kobe Kiito K.K.)
bf. Nitto Machine Manufacturing Company, Lta (Nitto Koki K.K.)
bg. Kokus n (Hokusen) Chemical Inuu: try. Ltd (Kokusan Kako K.K.)
bh. Ymategiwa Lyeing Horks, Ltu (Ore bressing) (Yematogawa Senko
..)
:I. dusel hngine Compiny. Ltd (Jiizeru Kiki K.K.)
b. Ue Inaustri 1 Compony. Lta (Ute Ee an E.K.)
POR TH UCAN
KBBush
UH
riralAGD
jatntunrul

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.95)
Fosm DS
Date
5-50-45
DEPARTMENT OF-STATE
12/9/40
TRANSWITTAL SLIP
TO:
BSPOLAD
TRANSMITTED FOR:
INPORMATION OF THE DEPART-
INPORNATION OF THE PORBION
MENT'S REPRESENTATIVES
OFFICE
TRANSMISSION TO THE FOR-
APPROPRIATE REPLY TO THE
EIGN OFFICE
INDIVIDUAL
SUBMISSION OF A REPORT. TO
INFORMATION OF THE REPRE-
THE DEPARTMENT. REFER TO
SENTATIVE OF THE FOLLOWING
U. S. AGENCY:
(AGENCY)
ADDITIONAL REMARKS:
a
p.lat
WHEN A REPLY TO THE DEPARTMENT IS INDICATED PLEASE REFER
TO THE FILE NUMBER AND TEE DRAFTING OFFICE.
FILE No.
SIGNATURE
DIVISIONA

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.96)
9 December 1949
Mr. Norman Burns
Office of International
Trade Policy
U.8. Denartment of State
"ashington,D.C.
Dear Sir:
I am doing a reseanan project
on J..n nese Indu. try. However, I am interes-
ted in the problem of international trade
nolicy ana cartel nroblems.
894.602/12-949
I have rectived some information
from tnt United Nations Research Section.
It was suggested by them that you might
nos: ibi. le atl t provide additional
inform: tion.
Any ir.formation or material
whicn you mignt make available would
be greatly annreciated.
MAR
2
Very truly your
028607
Donala S. Stoverman
Lont ld .Silverman
5o FLmwood Avenue
Fr kl ,Ne York
Rerey
894.602/
1
CS/H
12-949

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.91)
SECRET
Office of
PA EASTERN AFAIRSA:
To: FE - Mr. Buttorworth
C111940
DC/RW
Establishment of Erternal Security Detachment in Japan.
SUBJECT:
(Surrzy)
In view of the difficulties over their operations that I understoed
arose in China, you may be interested to know that just prior to my
leaving Japan, Admirax Decker, who is in command of Yokosuka, confidentially
informed me that the Navy External Security Detachment formerly im China
E811950
and Taiwan has been transferred virtually intact to Yokosuke. He stated
that under instructions from Washington he was engaged in reconstrueting
a quite large building in Yokosuka for their accommodation but that he
had no instructions or information whatever concerning the activities in
REC.
894.602/1
which they would be engaged in Japan.
DEP
u CA A
an
FF
CHINDSE
DEC161949
wM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
After diemuery mith Edgon agee no penore new
eved by sentny lamythey.
Its Tohyb. Snill mention in nef
letto to telfeld
0
2
FEB 16 1950
SECRET
2
-13
X 041222
DECLASSIFIED
f
NNO 250065
By 26 /C: NARS, Date 8.10.28

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.94)
INCOMING AIRGRAM
AIRGRAN
DEPARTMENT OF STATE DIVISION OF COMMUNICATIÔNS AND RECORDS TELEGRA
UTVISION OF
2818
ORTHEAST ASIAN AFFAIRS
FROM:
uSpqD, Tokyo.
Agtion Taken he actin
UNCLASSIFIED
Date of
P STA
mailing:
December 16, 1949.
Date 12/29/49
Rec d: Dec. 26, 1949 2:02 pm
1
Files
J
ACTION
Name or Ufricer 
FE
Yashiagton.
INFO
DCR
DCL
ITP
With refcrence to caP1 c058 of November 22. 1949, transmitted
CFD
to Department under cover of Hission's desnatch no. 854, Desember 6.
TRC
on subject of removal of certain Japanese companies from Schedule of
OLI
Restricted Concerns, folloving SCAf press reieaso vas issued on
CIA
Docember 8. 1949, by Public Informstion Office. GHQ. FC:
AAN
"Sixty-tvo more Jananose businees and industriel concerns
under restriction duo to former Zaibatsu connections, have Just
been romoved from reetrictd listinga, having complied with all
removal requirements, ScaP e Fair Trade and Practices Division
today anrounccd.
94.602/12-1649
"Criteria for the renoval of these concern were primarily
the sale of former Zaibatsu owned stocks; completion of roor
ganization if required unuer established Japanese lawe; ascer-
tainment that thoso companiss in vhich United Nations nationals
have claims fos cecuritics restoration have reserved sharcs for
restoration in accordanco with thc law, and completion of sepa-
ration from the former Zaibatsu chain of capital, ESs officialn
explained.
"This leaves 707 concerns still to meet the criteria for
removal from restricted listingo, ESS officials Baid.
RMC
Widesprcad business end industrial interests are included
in this latest list of romovals, among them the Yollowing typeo
894,602/12-1649
of firms: flour mills, lumber, real eatate. cotton, hosiery,
paper, alumimum, engineering, shect-glass, warehoucing, paint.
callieries, shipbuilding. industry. constructicn, felt, pulp.
optics, graphite mangenese, metals, harbor transpert, alloys,
coment, fibres, tea, zolling stock and locomotives, chemicals,
marine transport, pump manufacturing, sulphur, light metals
mining, silk mannfacturing, weaving and spinning. dyoing.
chine
manufsctures, and diosel engines.
C
SEBALD
5
52
510.1
PERMANENT RECORD COPY.—This copy must be returned to DC/R central fliles with notation of action taken.
n

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.92)
THE FENE
TR
894.602/12-2749
United States Political Aviser
for Japan
1
REC'D
Tokyo, Decenter 27, 1945.
JAN 4
ACTION
Ro. 905
FE ENC
INFO
UNCLASSIFIED
FR
DCR
CLI ENC
de
TTP ENC
Sirject: Rexoval of Certein Co penies fron the Schedule of
OFD ENC
F.etrictcd Fir.ms.
COM ENC
scm
entral
C/R
Tre Actine Politicai Adviser hes the honor to refer to
Document fust Le Returned
hicicns.Lceitr.1949. "Prmoci
f Certrir. Compauics frem the Schecule of Restricte: Firms".
 forver cepies of S0APIN 058 dated Novenber 22. 1949.
 to prevtous despatchrs on the same subjrct. There are now
enciosed five copies of S0API 2065 of December 17, 1949. from
the Surreme Commender for the Alliod Powers to the Japenese Gov-
erarcnt, releacire 26 eritlons) companies fron the schedule
restricted concerns, ten per cent or more of vhose otock was
894.60
teld ty holdine co panies designeted for liquidation.
2
att
2
E.clobures:
Five copi• of SCAPIN P058
of December 17, ly49.
FILED
f
Perchment Met to the Depertment
王
510.1
RvAiamo:ket
UT CLASSIFIED
ACTION CO
RN  I R PHLIETS WITHIN  DAYE WITH A NOTATION OP ACTION TAKRN

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
subject
the Schedule of Restriet
GEJERAL HEADQUARTERS
SUPREME COMMANDER FOR THE ALLIED POWERS
APO 500
AG O04( 17 D00 49 )ESS/FTP
17 Deomber
SCAPIN 2065
MEMORANDUI FOR: JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
SUBJECT:
Removal of Certain Companies from the Schedule of
Restricted Concerns
1. Reference the following memoranda for the Japanese Government
from General Headquarters, Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers:
a. AG 04(8 Dec 45)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 403, 8 December 1945, subject:
Establishment of a Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
b. AG 004(10 Jan 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 572, 10 January 1946, sub-
ject: Addition of Oji Paper Manufacturing Company, Ltd. and Subsidiaries
on Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
c. AG 004(14 Mar 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 813, 14 March 1946, subject:
Addition of Tokyo-Shibaura Electric Company, Lta.; Japan Radio Company,
Ltd.; Oki Electric Company, Ltd.: Oki Securities Company, Ltd.; Oki
Communications Instrument Company, Ltd.; Matsushita Electric Industries
Company, Ltd.; Japan Iron and Steel Company, Ltd.; and their Subsidiaries
and Affiliates to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
d. AG O04(22 Apr 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 893, 22 April 1946, subject:
Addition of Subsidiaries of Mitsui Honsha to Schedule of Restricted Con-
cerns.
e. AG 0C4(25 May 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 982, 25 May 1946, subject:
Addition of Imperial Mining Development Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries;
Certain Subsidiaries of Okura Mining Company, Ltd., and Certain Sub-
sidiaries of Mitsubishi Honsha to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
f. AG 004(4 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 998, 4 June 1946, subject6
Addition of Nippon Mail Steamship Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries; Osaka
Ccmmercial Steamship Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries; ana Yamashita Steam-
ship Company, Ltd., and Subsidiaries to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
g. AG O04(8 Jun 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1004, 8 June 1946, subject:
Addition of Certain Textile Companies to Schedule of Restricted Concerns.
h. AG O04(15 Nov 46)ESS/AC, SCAPIN 1341, 15 November 1946, sub-
ject: Addition of Subsidiaries to Tokyo Shibaura Electric Company, Ltd,
(Tokyo Shibaura Denki K.K.), to Schedule of kestricted Concerns.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.98)
AG 004( 17 D00.49 )EBS/FTP
SCAPIN 2065
2. The following companies placed on the Schedule of
Concerns by reference memoranda, paragraphs la through lh,
hereby removed from the Schedule of Hestricted Concerns, re
randum la; above, and additions thereto.
a. Japan Steel Works, Ltd. (Nihon Seikosho K.K.)
b. Sumitomo Warehouse Company, Ltd. (Sumitomo Soko K.K.)
c. Chugoku Railway Company, Ltd. (Chugoku Tetsudo K.K.)
d. Nitto Industry, Ltd. (Nitto Kogyo K.K.)
e. Japan Synthetic Jewels Company, Ltd. (Nippon Hoseki K.K.)
f. Asahi Chemical Industry, Lta. (Asahi Kasei Kogyo K.K.)
g. Inoue Electric Engineering Works, Lta. (Inoue Lenkf.
Seisakusho K.K.)
h. Tokyo Tool Mianufacturing Company, Ltd: (Tokyo Kiki
Seisakusho K.K.)
i. Japan Leather Paper JManufacturing Company, Ltd. (Nippon
Gikaku Seizo K.k.)
j.  Uji Agriculture ana Forestry Company, Ltd. (Oji Norin K.K.)
k: Toshin Electric Company, Ltd. (Toshin Denki K.K.)
1. Kyosan nineering Works, Ltd. (Kyosan Seisakusho K.K.)
m. Yubari Morks, Itd. (Yubari Seisakusho K.K.)
n.
Nissan Coastwise Steaship Comipany, Ltd. (Nissan Kinkai
Kisen K.K.)
o. Shofuku teamship Company, Ltd. (Shofuku Kisen K.K.)
p. Yamamoto Steamship Company, Lta. (Yamamoto Kisen K.K.)
G. Hokkai Steamship Company, Ltd. (Hokkai Kisen K.K.)
r. Sekiguchi Steamship Company, Lta. (Sekiguchi Kisen K.K.)
s. Tamai Commercial Steamship Company, Lta. (Tamai Shosen K.X.
t. Imazu Spinning opl Compeny, Ltd. (Imazu Bomo K.K.)
2

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.87)
1G 004( 17 Dec 49 )ES/FTT
CAPIN 2065
u. Gosho Compan:, Ltu. (Gosho K.K.)
v. Osaka Dyeing Compang. Lta. (esana Senno .K.)
w. Taigo YI woo. Sompang. Ltu. (Taigo nano Mokuzai K.K.)
  ikro kleet rie lcustry. Lta. (Pormer Lichiman Industry,
Lta.)(iki co
u ina ata hiptii ling  pal., Lta. (Fujinagata Zosenjo
 Yorawa lI Com an., Lt. (Y nogawa Denki ..
KBBush
K.B. BUSH
Brigadier General, AGD
Ad jutant General
