894.6363 Mines. Mining. Concessions., Carbon. Graphite., Japan, Petroleum., January 7, 1935 - October 25, 1939 (File 1141), part 1 of 2
ID: 894.6363-1141-1   Pages: 531   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.6363-mines-mining-concessions-5/894.6363%20Mines.%20Mining.%20Concessions.%2C%20Carbon.%20Graphite.%2C%20Japan%2C%20Petroleum.%2C%20January%207%2C%201935%20-%20October%2025%2C%201939%201141-part-1
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.93)
A2
This TELEGRAMcaRECEIVED
fully paraphrased before
Tokyo
LFA
being communicated to any-
one. (B)
Dated January 7, 1935,
FROM
Recd. 7:40 a m
yele
Lstn 5 9n
Secretary of State,
Dudas and
litiguams
Washington.
Joey
94.6323
2, January 7, 6 p m
八
894.6363/1
119.25
Walden
One. Waldner and Parker request the mbassy to
DIVIIONGF FIGN
communicate in our official code throuth tie Department
JAN 10 1935
to Dundas, Standard Vacuum O1l Company, New York City,
their recommendation that extreme pare be used in cabling
re arding any questicns affecting their problems while
9
5
discussions wi th Japanese Government which commence
Janunry 9th are in progress. In matters of unusual im-
portance they suggest if possible that Dundas ondeavor
to malte arrangements to use the State Department code
and they state that they vill do likewise. End of mes-
sage.
Two. I believe there is ample precedent for send
ing private commercial messaces in our official codes
occasionally and under special circumstances but I thin
that the privilege should be carefully limited and shou
not

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.98)
Tokyo No.2
not become a practice. The Department may feel that in-
dircct messages which can be paraphrased would be prefer-
able to quoted texts and might properly be communicated
through official channels under snch special circumstances
as the present ones.
Three. Please instruct and also inform me if and
when the present message is delivered.
GRW
rr
wsb

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
Department of State
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STATE Washington.
January 7, 1935.
7P
AMMBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
AND RECORD
(c)
3
Your/2,/ January 7, 6 p.m.
one. / Department id today transmitting) to Dundas the
mossage)contained in(paragraph pne of your telegram under
894.6363/165
reference.
In regard to use of pepartment bode/ have British /
Two.
interests made/similar/request or )British Embassy//
Department believes (the pocording or/withholding/or
such facility should be the same on the part of the two
Governments.
Please telegraph urgently.
Hee
4.4505/165
/VDM
FE

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.89)
TELEGRAM SENT
NPIBENTIAL COE
Department of State
This cable wes sent in cenfidential Code.
Washingtop.
It should be carefully paraphrased before
being communicated to anyene.
January 8, 1934.
ASBASSY,
5T
TOKYO (Japan).
One. Department is/informing the/Standard-Vacuum/
894.6363/165
Company or its willingness to/receive/for transmission to/
you such/messages as the/Company may wish to/send tolits
representatives in Japan/on the understanding thatsuch!
messages will be/ confined to\those of a highly confidential\
nature;/that no repeat/no/exact texts/will be transmitted;
that the/company's messages will be paraphrased/before/
transmission; that no/repeat no responsibility will be/
assumed/for the accuracy of such paraphrases or for/errors
in transmission; and that the Company will pay all charges
incurred on its behalr!
Two. You may )render) similar service to Ithe Company's)
N  S
Hule
QNS
BAISION U
neswz
m.m.H.
a2
FE:ROM:EJL
AN  529
894.6365/165
SPA AT
EED
1035 PM

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.81)
January 8 1985
CONFIDENTIAL
Deer . otes:
In condimmetien of the infermatiam whick Mr. Maekay
af th ertnt tared to you tis g by s f
a lang distamee telopheme eall, it my be stated that the
894.6363/165
Amariesn Enbessy et Takye, in a telegren méer date Jass-
any 7, intemmsd the Department of the ressipt by is of a
regnest frem Mr. Walden and Mr. Parker thet these be cam-
mieated to the Bspertment for toeasmisstem to you their
seemmemiation that, in the sonding of cables reletive to
questiems whieh mmy arise in the course of disoessiens
with the Japemese Gorermmsnt, whiek dissuasieme will com-
manse Jammary 9, ertreme eartiem be exereised. Mr. Waléem
and Mr. Pastoer alse sussssted tat, in matters ef estomme
Inpertense, arememste be mte by you te sone mesngss
theough the Dapertment and that they fellew a aimiler pre-
with seferenee to the feregaine, it my be stated

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.68)
, essirse to render, mever peesible, eppregeéate
mhom mhessy at Tokye sush highly conriaenttal ms-
er a sinilar sesviee to yeur repressntatives a
 It mst be berme elearly in mind, hewever, that
ngee reseied by the Degertent ad by the bessy
SAS

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.96)
X
This message must be care-
fully paraphrased before
Tokyo
being communicated to any-
one. (B)
Dated January 7, 1935,
Recd. 7:40 a m
Seerotary of State,
Waslington.
2, da ary 7, € p .
imbassy's 1, January 4,  p m.
894.6363
One. Waldner and Parker ruquest the umbassy to
conmunicate in cur official code throu h the Dopartment
to Dundas, Standard Vacuum Cil Conpany, Tew York City,
their recomnendation that extreme car be used in cabling
regarding any questions affecting their problems while
discussions with Japanese Government which commence
Janunry 9th are in progress. In matters of unusual i-
portance they suggest if possible that Dundas : ndeavor
to malie arrangements to use the State Department code
and they state that they vill do likewise. End of mes-
sage.
Two. I believe there is ample precedent for send
ing private commercial messages in our official codes
occasionally and under special circumstances but I think
that the privilege should be carefully limited and shoul
not

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
Tokyo o.2
not become a practice. The Department may feel that in-
direct messages which can be parapirased would be prefer-
able to quoted texts and might properly be communicated
through official chanuels under s h special circunstances
as the present ones.
T.rec. Please instruct and also inform me if and
w.cn the present message is delivered.
R
rr
wsi

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MCL
This tolegram must be
closoly paraphrasod bo-
Tokyo.
fore beircommunicated
to anyone. (c)
FROM
Dated January 8, 1935.
Received 4.34 a.m.
ale.
Livof
Secretary of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JA
Washington.
Number 4
RUSH. January 3, 4 pom.
Department's 3, January 7, 7 pom.
894.6363/166
One. Pararraph nureered two. Yes.
Two. British Eabassy has consented to transmit
messages on behalf of tho British oil interests in its of-
ficial codes provided this privilege is not abused. It
believes that it has the authority to grant or withhold
this privilore without reference to its Foreign Office.
Three. I shall telearaph further if the Bri-
tish Forein Office objects to the procodure indicated.
GREW.
RR
HPD

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.95)
X
mc
MCL
This tologram must be
closoly paraphrasod bo-
Tokyo.
fore boing communicated
to anyonc. (c)
Dated January 8, 1935.
Received 4.34 a.m.
Secretury of State,
Washington.
RUSH.4January 8, 4 p.m.
Department's 3, January 7, 7 pon.
894.6363
Onc. Pararraph num ored two. Yes.
Two. British Entassy as consented to transmit
messages on bohalf of the Pritish oil intorests in its of-
ficial codes provided this priviloge is not abused. It
believes that it has the wuthority to grant or withhold
166
this privilore without referonce to its Foreign Office.
Three. I shall telegraph further if tho Bri-
tish Foroin Offico objects to the procodure indicated.
GREW.
RR
HPD

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/ 167
894.00 P.R./84
Deap.#1090
SEE
FOR
FROM
Japan
Grew
) DATED
Dec.10.1934.
1kd/1111
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Japanese Petroleum Industry Law: Reports recent
developments in connection with the enforcement
of -.
fpg

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.77)
11:1
0019
L
rev
toL1terudd
8
i t follot ste to nt:
yu11trspond
lt xutit
111
he
ti or
s1ort
t ofoereerrin
re et the tokyo ropreset tives  the r  ouun
it opny ne tne jst
untrol:tfile the
cumpnies' 1port  tor e or 1 s idi. toly.
with the furt er st te ont t t t ilare to of so would result
in  enalizatior or the co. nies.
At t conl ren   ovember so bet veen the Yiee
inister of ommeree  lncustry nd r. urusu, hier of
the Commereial mure u of the vorein office, on one side
and the representutives of the erioan  nd iritist oil
compsnies on the other, r. urusu stt tec ti t the J:penese
Government
Embessy's telegram No. 244, November 6.

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.96)
一4 -
Government was not to oc influenced by representations
of the cher cter lre:dy wde by the merion, British,
and Netherlands Governments, to alter its etroleum Law
or abolish the stoctholding requirements. However, the
Vioe inister sugrested tnt for the furpose of overcoming
the present diffioulty regarains the stockholding provisions
of the Law, the Jups nese Government would vocept provisional
import plans conditional upon the foreiem oil compunies'
deoision us to whether or not it would be eoonomioully
possible for them to continue business in Japan end that
the Government would ten grant provisionel salos uotes
for 1935.
On Nov mber 30 the looel representetive of the tandard
Vacuum Cil Company, after consulting his heuc office,
addressed a letter to the Minister of Commeroe and Indus try
submitting the informstion desired by the Japanese authorities
abjeet to alteration and oonditional upon the deeision of
their prineipals as to whether, or to what extent, they
desired to eontinue business in Japen under the conditions
imposed under the Petroloum Industry Law.

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.98)
894.6363
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/168
893.6363-Manohuria/122
#1092
SEE
FOR
FROM ... Japan
Grew
Deo. 11, 1934.
) DATED
TO
NAME
1—1127
REGARDING:
Petroleum question in Japan and Manchuria: Conversation with Netherlemds
Minister on Deo. 6, l934, regarding -, and its effect on the security
of the Netherlands East Indies.
bo

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.97)
te
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
JS
This telegram must be
公
to anyone (B)
Dated January 10, 1935
Rec'd 12:11 a.m.
Secretary of State,
Washington, D.C.
894.6363/169
5, January 10, 11 a.m.
Embassy's 1, January 4, 5 p.m., American oil
interests in Japan.
One. The conversations between the special
representatives of the American and British oil
interests and the Japanese officials commenced
yesterday at the Tokyo Club in order to avoid prem-
ature puplicity in a pleasant and conciliatory at-
mosphere. The first day was devoted principally to
generalities, the Japanese dcing most of the talking.
Conversetions will be resumed this afternoon.
Two. No Embassy officials are attending meet-
ings but the oil interests will keep the Embassies
fully informed. Important developments will be con-
veyed to the Department by telerraph and memoranda of
the conversations by mail.
GREW
FTLED
JS
F
K

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.92)
TELEGRAM SENT
RECEDapartment of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washington,
1955 JAN 30
January 30, 1956.
This cable was sent ir confidential Code.
It should be carerully paraphraseo pefore
TOKTO (JPDS.
10
Youy 5, January 10, 11 a.m.
on trogreer made
Unlesa inexpadient
lease report/briefly by telegram  to date
interests/and Japanese 'officials.
894.6363/169
Hel
SKH
L
PM
JAT)
894.6363/169
0.20.4.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
KP
19.

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.95)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
RBOEIVED
January 9th, 1935.
JAN 10 195
DIVINION OF
Reference:
FE 894.6363/165.
yile
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
894.6363/170
Division cf Far Eastern Affairs,
S
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Dreare et State
I acknowledge vith appreciation your
letter of January 8th, confirming our telephone conversation
with Mr. Mackay of the Department, in respect to the question
of transmission of telegrams through the Department to our
representatives in Japan.
1 fully realize the position of the Department
and you may rest assured that oniy in matters of the greatest
importence and urgency will we request the Department to act
for us in this manner.
Further, of course, we understend that if such
occasicns arise, you will be at perfect liberty to paraphrase
whatever message or messeges are mutuelly arranged for trans-
mission. In addition, the Department will naturally be re-
imbursed for any expenses incurred on our behalf.
F/FG
We greatly appreciate your continued and help-
ful efforts extended to our interests.
Sincerely yours,
A. Dimdas
FILED
1

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 30, 1935.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 1ll7 of December
29, l934, in regard to the oil situation
in Japan and in Korea, --
As, for the most part, the despatch
under reference gives a detailed account
of events already known to the Department
in outline, I do not believe you need read
the despatch in its entirety.
It is interesting to note, however,
that, according to Mr. Kurusu, the oil
control law is largely a child of the
brain of Mr. Hashimoto, iresident of the
Nippon Oil Company, who, failing in his
expectations of receiving a government
subsidy for the expense of stock-holding,
is now caught in his own net. Also, ac-
cording to Mr. Kurusu, the Japanese oil
companies are fighting the battles of the
foreign oil companies in regard to gasoline
prices in the same way that the foreign oil
oompanies are fighting the battles of the
Japanese companies in regard to stock-holding.
I suggest that you read the half-page
section entitled "Rumor of an oil monopoly
in Korea" appearing on pages 8 and 9 of the
despatch under reference.
RCM:EJL

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.95)
1
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 29, 1934.
No. 1117.
ile
Subject:
Americen Oil Interests in Japan.
894.6363
894.6363/171
22
(Gr 1
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
100
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my despatch No. 1085,
dated December 13, 1934, and to previous despatches and
telegrams on the subject of the difficulties being ex-
perienced by the American and other foreign oil interests
in Japan under the new Petroleum Industry Law, and to
FILED
report the following developments in the situation.
F/DEW
Representations.
In compliance with the Department's telegraphic
154
instruction No. 210, December 20, 8 p.m., the Embassy
consulted

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
consulted with the British Embassy in Tokyo and found
the British Ambassador and members of his staff most
willing to cooperate in any way possible in making re-
presentations in a manner acceptable to the Department.
It was agreed that both Embassies sho ld make oral and
informal representations, outlining t e points which
the foreign oil conpanies found difficult in the Petro-
leum Industry Law, stoting that the assurances so far
given by the Japanese Government were not sufficient
to remove the anxieties felt by the foreign oil com-
panies in regard to the future of their business in
Japan, and expressing the  ope of the respective Govern-
ments that the Japanese Government wou'd reconsider the
question and endeavor to remove th causes of the anxie-
ties. Both Embassies were to ad (unles: the subject was
first broached by the Japanese official) that high offi-
cials of the British and American oil interests were at
present in Shanghai and, if there was any prospect of a
solution of the difficulties through discussion between
the Japanese authorities and the of icials of the oil com-
panies, no doubt the officials would be authorized by
their principals to come to Japan for the purpose. The
various points of the representations were to be embodied
by each Embassy on sheets of paper without title or date,
to be left at the Foreign Office if the Japanese official
interviewed so desired, and it was further agreed that the
representations were to be made by the Counselors of Em-
bassy to Mr. Kurusu, the Chief of the Bureau of Commercial
Affairs

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Affairs of the Foreign Office.
In compliance with the Department's instruction re-
ferred to above, the question of making such representations
was referred to the oil companies, who agr ed to the pro-
cedure outlined on December 27, 1934. The representations
were therefore made on that day, the British by Mr. Sansom,
Commercial Counselor of the ritish Embassy, at about 2
o'clock and the American by Mr. Neville, assisted by Mr.
Dickover, at 3 o'clock. The representutions were purpose-
ly made on the same afternoon in order to give the impres-
sion of a united front. Mr. Kurusu received the represen-
tations sym athetically and discussed the various problems
of the oil companies, both Japanese and foreign, in a
frank manner. He said, anong other things, that the oil
control law of Japan was largely, he thought, a child of
the brain of Mr. Hashimoto, the President of the Nippon
Oil Company, who hoped thereby to obtain some advantages
in his competition with the two large foreign oil companies.
Mr. Hashimoto, however, had expected to he subsidized by
the Japanese Government for the expense of stcck-holding,
and when he found that the Finance Department would not
consent to a subsidy for stock-holding, he discovered that
he was left "holding the bag". Hashimoto was therefore
trying very hard to obtain an increase in the price of
gasoline. The Nippon Oil Company, according to Mr. Kurusu,
was in serious financial difficulties and unable to obtain
funds from the banks to finance its stock-holding duties;
therefore it needed an increase in the price of gasoline
to improve its financial outlook and so obtain accommoda-
tion

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
tion from the banks. Mr. Kurusu said that the Japanese
oil companies were fig ting the foreign oil companies'
battles in regard to gasoline prices, just as the fore-
eign oil companies were fighting the Japanese oil com-
panies' battles in regard to stock-holding.
In ad ition to the points brought out on the pa-
1/
per (see nclosure No. 1) later left with Mr. Kurusu at
his recuest, r. Nevilic tated that the explanations
which had kincly Leen made b. the Japarese Government in
its memorundum of October 31, 1934, as vel1 as the oral
explanations which it was understood were macc by the
Vice Minister for Com erce and Industry to rcpresenta-
tives of t'e for ign oil companies on Yove mer co, 1934,
had unforturetely not been sufficient to remove the an-
xieties felt by the Americin oil interests in regard to
the future of their busines: in Japan, nd thct therefore
the Areric n Govornment felt cons rained again to point
out to the Japanese Governnent some of the causes of those
anxieties and to express the hope that the Japanese Govern-
ment voulc again consider the problems confronting the
American oil interests in Japan and would endeavor to re-
move the causes of the anxieties. Mr. Kurusu said that
he would discuss the question again wit Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, and that he
was sure that a solution of the difficulties could be
found "within the frame-work of tho present law". He al-
so said that Mr. Machida, the present Minister for Commerce
and Industry, was an "old-fashioned" statesman, "who still
believes

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
believes in laissez faire and free trade", and that
therefore the foreign oil companies could count on
a liberal attitude on his part.
Mr. Kurusu then brought up the (uestion of the
possihility of iscussions betv en  r. Parker, Presi-
dent of the Stancard-Vacuum OiI Conp any, ho is nov in
Shanghai, and the Japanese officials. Mr. Dickover stated
that if Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Yosnino belicved that fruit-
ful results might flow fron such conversations and if the
possibility existed that the discussion might bring about
a solution of the cifficulties confronting the American
oil interests in Japan, he believed that the Company
might authorize Mr. Parker to procccd to Japan for the
purpose. Mr. Kurusu said that he was sure that the con-
versat:ons would bring good results, but that he would
have to consult Mr. Yoshino on the subject, as the dis-
cussions were rather in Mr. Yoshino's province than in
Mr. Kurusu's.
The British representations were much the same as
ours, except that thc British went more into detail in
the paper left with the Foreign Office. A copy of the
2/
British paper is enclosed herewith.
On December 28, 1934, Mr. Kurusu asked Mr. Neville
to come to the Foreign Office and there informed him that
Mr. Yoshino would welcome discussions with the Directors
of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company now in Shanghai; that
if the foreign oil companies wished to build refineries
in Japan, such refineries would be treated on an equal
footing

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
footing with Japanese refineries as regards participa-
tion in the natural ncrease of the Japanese petroleum
trade; that the Government intended to develop the
Japanese ref ning industry, but nevertheless would al-
lot & part of the increase in de and for petroleum products
to the importers of rofined proiucts; thot the Japanese
oil companies could not comply with the stock-holding
rovisions of th law because of lack of funds and that
therefore some adjustment would be necessary;
and th&t
such points could best he discussed by the oil men them-
selves. A copy of Mr. Neville's memorandum of his con-
3/
versation with Mr. Kurusu is enclosed herewith. Mr.
Neville gained the impression from his talk with Mr. Kuru-
su that the Japanese officials are adopting a much more
reasonable attitude than formerly toward the problems of
the foreign oil companies in Japan. Mr. Kurusu also saw
Mr. Sansom on the same day, as a result of which Mr.
Sansom also obtained the impression that the Japanese au-
thorities are adopting a more lenient attitude.
Although Mr. Kurusu did not say so, it is probable
that the information given to Mr. Neville and Mr. Sansom
was intended as the reply to the representations made on
the previous day.
Both this Embas y and the British Embasry promptly
conveyed the information obtained from Mr. Kurusu to the
two oil companies, which thereupon telegraphed to their
special representatives in Shanghai to proceed to Japan.
As the Japanese Government offices close on December 29
and

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
and remain closed until January 6, it was arranged
with Mr. Kurusu that the conversations should start, if
possible, on or about January 7.
Cooperation betveen the Eabassy and the American Oil
Interests.
In regard to the Department's telegraphic instruc-
tion No. 215, December 24, 1 p.m., to the effect that by
some unknown means the special renresent tives of the oil
companies now in Shanghai had obtained a mistaken impres-
sion that the American and British Governments might change
their attitude toward the oil questions of Japan and Man-
churia because of the inconclusive results of the London
naval conversations, and instructirg the Embassy to give
the local represent: tive of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Com-
pany the fullest information possible in regerd to the
exact situation at the moent, 1 have the honor to report
that the local American oil interests have always been
kept fully and currently informed in regard to all phases
of the American Government's attitude except that phase
having to do with the relations between the American and
British Governments. As an example, the De artment's
140
telegram No. 201, December 10, 8 p.m., which contained
much information of interest and value to the special re-
presentatives of the American oil interests, arrived after
the departure for Shanghai of Mr. Parker and Mr. Goold.
The Embassy therefore promptly called Mr. Eaton, the Act-
ing General Manager of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
in Japan, to Tokyo and gave him full information in re-
gard

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
-8 -
gard to the latest dcvelopments of the American Govern-
ment's attitude. Mr. Eaton embodied this information in
a letter to Mr. Goola, which he sent to Shanghai by a
special messenger. The f ct that there hos been no change
in the Department's attitude was likewise conveyed to
Mr. Eaton, who telegraphed it to Mr. Goold by referring,
in his coded message, to words contained in the letter
previously sent to Mr. Goold. Neither this Emhassy nor
Mr. Eaton can understand the source of the mistaken im-
pression obtained by the special representatives at Shang-
hai.
Rumor of an Oil Monopoly in Korea.
The Embassy has been irformed by thc representative
in Japan of the Associeted Oil Conpany of California,
which has a half interest in the Mitsubishi Oil Company,
that a plan is being formed to estab ish an oil monopoly,
somewhat similar to that established in Manc uria, in
Korea. The first move would be to organize an oil re-
fining company in Korea, the capital to be subscribed
by the Nippon Oil Company, Ogura Oil Company, and Mitsu-
bishi Oil Company (the representative of theAssociated Oil
Company obtained his information regarding the scheme be-
cause the firm in which he is interested was approached for
a subscription). The refinery would probably be establish-
ed in Chemulpo and would be able, in the beginning, to
supply about one-third of the demand in Korea for petroleum
products.

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.96)
- 9 -
products. This, in the opinion of the representative
of the Associated Oil Company, would be the first step
toward the establishment of an oil sales monopoly in
Korea.
Respectiully yours,
Moi.
Josenh C. Grew
Enclosures:
1/ Paper left at the Forcign Office
by the Anerican Embassy on Decem-
ber 27, 1934.
2/ Paper left with the Foreign Office
by the British Embassy on December 27,
1934.
3/ Memorandum of Convorsation, Lir. Ne-
ville and Mr. Kurusu, December 28,
1934.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.97)
1117:Dec.24,1934
i
:0.
C O P Y.
Vhile noting the assur nees giver b the Japan-
ese Government, in its me..oran un of October 1, 1954,
that there is o intention, in tht granting of annual
(uotas, of ignoring the intert sts of ti se engaged in
the oil industry in Japan or of iinpairing the continuous
char: cter of th industry, it stil seems necessary to
point out that the vide powers conferred by the Petroleum
Industry Law are suc as to ronder it im, ssible for
American oil intercsts t
gauge with any degrec of cer-
tainty thc scale of thcir future busines. in Japan.
It appears from the Japanese memorandum that even
if American oil inter sts aro granted permission to
manufacture refined petroleum products in Japan, they
probably will not be permittec to share proportionally
in the natural growth of the industry but will be restrict-
ed in general to the refining of in amount not exceeding
their present im ort quotas, while thc bulk of the in-
crease in the demand will be allotted to the Japanese
refiners.
The Japanese memorandum does not refer to the stock-
holding requirements of the Petroleum Industry Law, which
are considered by the American oil interests to be the
most burdensome provisions of the Law. Because of the
elastic nature of these provisions, added to the uncer-
tainty of future sales and the lack of any assurance of
compensation

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.92)
-2 -
compensation for the increased investment entailed
by the stock-holcing provisions, the American oil
interests are unable to deci e whether it is commer-
ci: lly feasible t: invest furt er funos in their pusi-
ness in Japan.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
2 to despatch
Luclosure No
No 1117 of e.29, 1934
from the
C O P Y.
His Majesty's Government ave carefully studied
the e orancu kin J furnished t His Majesty's
Ambassador at Tokyo by the Mir istry for Forcign Af-
fairs on October 3lst last, in wich is set forth in
explanat:on of the subst nce of the Pet oleum Indus-
try Law and of the policy of the Japancse Government
in administering that Law.
Ω. His Majesty's Government, while expressing
their gratitude for t s exolanat:on, and observing
with pleasure taat it is not the desire of the Japan-
ese authorities to deprive persons engaged in this
industry of security for their business, fecl con-
strained to state that th's explanation has not re-
moved anxiety, which they hav felt since they first
became acquainted witl the provisions of the Law, lest
the wide powers which it confers might be so exercised
as in effect to constitute iscrimination against the
interests of British oil companies.
3. Though it is stated in the memorandum of the
Ministry for Foreign Affairs that insistence upon the
annual submission of plans of operation does not connote
any desire to hamper the continuance of the business of
persons

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.96)
-  -
persons engaced in the petroleun inc ustry, such in-
sistence would appear to deprive the British oil in-
terests of all security as to thc scale of thcir future
operet ons. Not only, es His -ajesty's Government un-
derstunc, r thoce inter st: una: le to count upon being
alloved t shore in an inerease of trair, but also
they heve, it sc s, sone r ason to fcar thit, in the
event of  contr ction of do and, Japanese con anies
might be eruitted to airtain their position while
the quot:s of uritish interests woulc e r cuced.
4. The fact that t ritish oil interests do not
posses: r fine ite in Ja an and that they are uncertain
w et er t ey wo lo u on a plic tion be ranted per ission
to refine upon  scale cor ensurate vita their present
bisiness seems definitely to pl ce them in an unfavourable
position as compared with Japanese c mpanics. It is
suggested in the memorandum of the Ministry for Foreign
Affairs that permi sion to estab'ish refineries would be
f cilitated for compenies whose capital was predominant-
ly Japanese; but even this ermission may be withheld in
special circumstances, an in any cese under such finan-
cial arrangements the British oil inter sts would forfeit
financial
find themselves unable to contomplate.
5. While His Majesty's Government fully comprehend
the desire of the Japanese Government to administer the
Petroleum Industry Law for the protection of the public
welfare and for the maintenance of the interests of in-
dustry as a whole, they feel that the provisions of
Article

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
Article 7 of the Law, together vit: Articles 7, 8
and 9 of the Imperial Ordinance for its enforcement,
give such scope for official intervention which cn-
not be foresecn as t) make it ifficult, if not im-
possible, for the pritis oil interests to frme plens for
their undertakings with that cegrec of certainty as to
future income ane expenditure w ic or inary commercial
practice entails.
6. His Majesty's Government notice that the memoran-
dun of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs makes no reference
to the provisions of th Petroleum Industry Law which
refer to stock-holcing. These  rovisions, from the point
of view of the British oil interests, are anong its most
onerous. As they stand they se m to empower the compe-
tent authority to stipulate for thc holding of stocks to
an unlimiteo extent; and although the present requirement
is fixed at six months' stock, it is understood that the
Minister of Comnerce, speaking in the Diet in March last,
suggested th:t the reguirement might be extended to
twelve months' stock. The British oil interests have re-
peatedly represented to His Majesty's Government that,
faced not only with doubts as to their future sales but
also wit uncertainty both as to the amount of expendi-
ture which stock-holding would involve and as to the
possibility of reimbursing themselves for such expendi-
ture, they find it practically impossible to decide whe-
ther, from a commercial standpoint, they are justified
in further investment in the petroleum business in Japan.
7.H1s

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
7. His Iojesty's Government on the information
furnished to them by thc Japanese Government have
based thc opinion that the anxieties of the British
oil inter sts are justifiable; and they fecl that
further explanations which, the: understand, werc
courteously given to the re pre sent: tive of the
Rising Sun Petroleum Com any by officials of the
Ministry of Conmercc no th inistry for For ign
Affoirs at an interview on Noven er Oth were not
sufficient to remove tose anxieties.

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.98)
Enciosulo No
3
to desparch
No 1117 of  29,1934 from the
F Sosov at Tokyo.
Conversation.
Decmber 28, 1934.
Mr. Neville and Mr. Kurusu, Chief
of the Commercial Bureau of the
011.
Foreign Office.
Mr. Kurusu called me on the telephone and asked me
to call on him at his office at about 3:00 P M, which
I did. He tolc me t'at he hac spoken to the Vice Minister of
Commerce and Industry in r gard to the conversation
which Mr. Dickover and I had had with him, and referred
to the suggestion that he had made that the Directors
of the Standar Vacuum Oil Company now in Shanghai should
come to Japan. He said th:t Mr. Yoshino had welcomed the
suggestion.
He then told me that there would be no discrimination
in the allotment of quotas for refineries in Japan; that if
foreign companies were to build refineries here, they
would participate in any increase of business on equal foot-
ing with Japanese refineries; that as to the importation
of refined products, the Government intended to keep the
Japanese refineries busy if possible, but as the refineries
were now operating somewhere around 80% of their theoretical
capacity, the import quotas would have to be increased, and
the increase would be allotted to all.
Turning to the question of stock-holding requirements,
he said that this was becoming a problem for the Japanese
concerns, who could not possibly comply with the law, as
they did not have the money to do so. The net result was
bound to be an adjustment of some sort, presumably includ-
ing

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
ing an increase in prices. He said that this was one
of the points which he felt could best be discussed by
the oil men themselves, and which he could not discuss
in detail, but he ascured me that the oil men would
find the Department of Comnerc: and Industry "reasonable".
He said that he honestly felt that the Diroctors would
find it to their interest to come and that it would be
worth while to do so. I said that I should be glad to
pas: on this information. He ad ed that ho had an ap-
pointment with ir. Sansom of the British Embassy later
in the afternoon, to whom he would give the same advice.
He then said that Sansom ha spoken to him on a pre-
vious call about the ianc urian Monopoly. He said that
a Mr. Hoshino, of whom he had spoken to me before, the
Vice Minist.r of Finance of "Manchukuo" was still in
Tokyo. He told me that Hoshino had come over in connec-
tion with the sale of the Chinese Eastorn Railway, but
as Vice Minister of Finance he could speak with authority
in regard to Monopolies, actual or proposed. He said
that the oil men, if they came to Tokyo, could see this
Hoshino without arousing comment, and without committing
themselves; that he (Hoshino) was coming to the Foreign
Office later in the afternoon and that he would sound
him out on this subject. I told Kurusu that I was not
authorized to speak on this matter one way or the other.
He said that he knew that, but was just giving me some
information which I could use as I liked, and which he
was going to give to Sansom when the latter came to call.
I thanked him and took my leave.
Note:
E.L.N.

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
Note: If the oil company directors decide to come,
they would have nothing to do before January 7. Kurusu
seemd of the opinion that they could finish their dis-
cussions by the mid le of the month, as the Diet will
be sitting after thc gOth. I got the distinct impression
that the Government woulo like to wind u the matter be-
fore the Diet gets down to work, and would be willing to
make concessions to bring this about.
I do not know just how this …r. Hoshino fits into
the picture, but I am of the opinion that it is one of
Kurusu's wn ideas. I don't think any harm could come
out of meeting him here in Tokyo. Kurusu secns bent on
arranging a meeting, an seems to think that it would
be better for the oil companies to come to some working
agreement with the "Manchukuo" régime, while the discussions
over thc legal and treaty status of that region go on in
an academic atmosphere. Without subscribing to this point
of view, it might be possible to obtain from Mr. Hoshino
some idea of what the authorities over in Manchuria hope
to accomplish, and what they hope or expect the foreign
oil companies to do.
E.L.N.
I telephoned to Eaton in Yokohama in regard to
this. Eaton said he had seen Yoshino today.
E.L.N.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.90)
Jammary 11, 1955.
Bear Me. Quism:
Beference is made to your long distance telephone eall
of yesterday afterneen in the course of whick you requested
of the Dapartmest eopies of the translations in English of
894.6363/1
the Japamese Petroloum Industry Law, promulgated Mareh 29,
Sose, and the Mamehurian Petroloum Momopoly Law, promal-
seted Nevember 14, 1934.
In eampliance with your request, there are emelosed a
tramslatiom of the Japanese Petroleum Lndustry Law, which
tramslatiom wae made from the Japanese tert of the law as
publ1ahed in the OFFICIAL GAZETTE on Mareh 28, 1954, and a
tramslatiem of the Manehurian Petroloum Momopoly Law, as
publimbed in the November 14, 1954, issue of the Hotm
MAMIONI SHIEBUN. Thare is also enelosed a translatien ef
 emeerpt frem the "Manehukuo" GAZETTE in whick there are
apparemtly gives, with referemee to Artieles 1 and 11 ef
the Memepely Law, eertain eorrections and additiens.
.J. L. Quima.
Stemdame oll Gompany of Galifermis,
so Reekefeller Plase.
Yow Yoak, New York.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.89)
-2-
L lly taed to o by. ay. the Da
éess met pessess afficial trenslations in mglish et the
Iams wméer referense and in consequsnee is not in pesittem
to assmme amy responsibility with regard to the asourasy
of the translations of whieh copies are now made available
to you.
Simserely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
水叶
Stanley L. Hornbeek,
Chiof,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Enalesures:
Tremelatien ef Japanese
Petrelom Industry Law;
Trenalation ef Manckurian
Petreleum Manopaly Law;
fram "Zamekukue" GAZETTE.
JAN 14, 1935PM
m.m.H
FE:MM:EJIL
FE
A true copy of
the signes
1/11/35

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.92)
STANOKRD OIL. COMPANY OF- CALAEORNIA
3O ROCKEFELLER PLAZA
NEw YoRk CiTY, January 16, 1935.
J.L.QUINN
REORIVED
1AN17
m
LIVISION OF
seen
A
Mr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, C ief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
10
Dear Mr. Hornbeck:
11712
894.6363/172
I am in receipt of your letter of Januery llth
with attachments relative to the Ja, anese and Manchukuo petroleum
laws, and wish to assure you this material is greatly appreciated
by our compuny, and thank you for the prompt attention give to our
request.
It is a pleasure to the writer to know of the
prompt and helpful cooperation of your Department to industry.
Arprociating the courtesy extended, I am
Very tyuly yours,
MQeceson
FLED

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 30, 1935.
As the Embassy at Tokyo stated in its
telegram No. 5 of January io, 1l a.m.,
that it would inform the Department by
telegram of all developments of importance
in oonneotion with the conversations now
taking place between special representa-
tives of the oil interests and Japanese
officials, I believe that we may safely
await initiative at that end. On the
other hand, I peroeive no objection, other
than the costs involved, to requesting the
Embassy for a brief statement of the re-
sults to date.
With reference to the second paragraph
of the seotion entitled "Japan" of the at-
tached memorandum of the press conference
of January 24, 1935, --
allach.d.h.
Tokyo's despatch No. ll26, which I
believe you will be interested in reading
in its entirety, states, inter alia, that
as the "Manchukuo" monopoly, "unlike the
petroleum control question in Japan, in-
volves international rights and agreements
as well as commercial interests, the
speoial representatives of the oil companies
feel

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
-2-
feel that it will be best not to attempt
to negotiate on the question, at least
until such time as all diplomatic resources
have been exhausted. At the same time they
intend, by occasional mention of the 'Man-
chukuo' monopoly, to convey the impression
to the Japanese officials that the two
questions are more or less linked in their
minds."
With regard to the third paragraph of
the aforementioned section of the press
conference memorandum, --
It would appear (see paragraph 
top of page three, of Tokyo's despatch
under reference) that the foreign oil
companies may ask that the regulations be
altered so as to require the holding of
four months' stocks, such stocks to include,
however, all oil on hand or in transit to
Japan. As the oil interests originally
were opposed to maintaining stocks in ex-
cess of three months' requirements, their
apparent willingness to increase such stocks
to a four months' supply would appear to
indicate a concession on their part.
reeus
RCM:EJL

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.90)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 10, 1935.
No. 1126.
Subject: American Oil Interests in Japan.
yile
894.6363
894.6363/173
5
2
511
3 N 
LLJ
The Honorable
C  Ay leer
of 5204 1  .
The Secretary of Statelate
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to my telegram No. 1,
January 4, 5 p.m., in regard to the visit to Japan of Mr.
G.S. Walden, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, and Mr. P.W.Parker, Presi-
FUED
dent of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, for the purpose
of conferring with the Japanese authorities concerning the
Japanese Petroleum Industry Law and its effect upon the
American oil interests in Japan. Mr. J.C.Goold, General
F/G
Manager for Japan of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, who
accompanied Mr. Walden and Mr. Parker from Yokohama to
Shanghai,

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.97)
一-
Shanghai, returned with them and is taking part in the
conversations with the Japanese authorities. Mr. F.
Godber, a London Director of the Royal Dutch-Shell oil
interests, and Mr. .W. Malcolm, Managing Director of
the Rising Sun Petroleun Company, Who are representing
the British oil intercst", met r. Walden and Mr. Parker
in Shanghai, conferren with thcn there, accompanied them
to Japan, and are taking part in the conversations with
the Japanese officials.
As a result of their conferences in Shanghai, the
American and British representtives of the oil interests
worked out in detail their objections to the Petroleum
Industry Law as at present oper ted and cecided upon cer-
tain mocific tions which may be proposed to the Japanese
authorities in the course of the: conversations. The prin-
cipal modific tions suggosted are as follows:
1. In regard to the annual sales uotas cuestion, the
foreign oil companies may propose that they continue to
sell only their present volune of gasoline until such time
as the natural increase in the trade shall cause the exist-
ing Japanese oil refining ecuipment to be fully employed,
provided that the foreign companies' share of the trade
does not fall below 45 per cent of the total. Thereafter
the increase in the trade shall be divided pro rata among
the refiners and importers. No restrictions shall bc placed
upon the sales of other petroleum products. Guarantees of
future business, say for periods of ten years, shall be
given unconditionally by the Japanese Government in regard
to the quotas of all petroleum products.
2.In

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
2. In rogard to the stock-holding regulations,
the foreign oil companies may ask that the regulations
be altered so as to require the holding of only four
months' stocks, such stocks to include all oils on hand
or in transit to Japan, in whatever containers they may
be or at Whatever points of distribution they may be lo-
c ted. If inconvenient an unprofitable places are de-
signated by the Government for stock-hol in: purposes,
the Govermment may be asked to agree to reimburse the
coapanies for th extra cost of installation and distri-
bution. The Government may also be asked to give an un-
dertaking that future Gevernnents vill. not increase the
stock-hol ing re uirenents. The reserve stocks for stor-
age purposes to e t.ken over by thc G verrnent only at
postcc prices on the Gulf  s publishec in Pr tt's Oilgram
plus frcignt from the Pacific Coast, insurance, &llowance
for leakage, duty (if already pain) and other charges.
3. In regarc to the price-fixing provisions of the
law, the Government mcy e asked to agrec to exercise this
right only if the oil firms are proved to be making exorhi-
tant profits. In calculating such  rofits, capital ch rgcs
as well as ordinary cistributing and marketing charges must
be taken into consiceration.
4. In regard to thequestion of refining within Japan,
the foreign oil companies may ask that they be given the
right freely to refine in Japan if they wish to do so, with-
in the limits of their allotted sales quotas and with treat-
ment equal to that given Japanese refiners.
5. In regard to the requirement that refiners or im-
porters

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.97)
- 4 -
porters must extend or improve thcir equipment if ordered
to do so by the Governmert, tho foreign oil companies may
ask that the regulations be altered so that this right
shall be exercised only for legitimate trae reasons (i.e.,
not for nat onal de: nse purposes) tud ti:t if such exten-
sion or im rovement is orce"  fo: reasous not considered
by the companies to be legitimate trace reasons, the Covern-
ment shall agree to provide adecuate compensation should
the ecuipment becore idle for uny reason.
6. In regard to the question of the possible necessi-
ty of the liquidation of investments in Japan, the foreign
that
oil companies mey ask/the Covernment agrec that the Ex-
change Control Lav shal? not be invoked to prevent the re-
mittance to their home countries of th proccecs of such
licuidation.
7. In regard to th restrictions contuined in the
Petroleum In lustry Law on the analgamation, suspension or
dissolution of oil businesses, thc foreign oil companies
consicer that these restrictions constitute an unreasonable
interference with commercial policy and may protest aguinst
them.
The foreign oil co panies o not consider the above
suggested modifictions of the law ani regulations as es-
sential concitions to the continuance of their business in
Japan; the modifications are vieved r ther as desiderata,
subject to alteration as the conversations with the Japanese
officials progress. The desiderata constitute a rather
large order, and, in view of the announced Japanese policy
of developing a national petroleum industry and of building
up

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
up the national defenses as far as oil is concerned, it
is doubtful that the more sweeping modifications will be
considered by the Japanese authorities.
Progress of the Conversations.
The special repru entatives of th Standare and Shell
interests arrived in Japan on January i, 19a5, but owing
to the New Year's nolidays, Wic' in Japan continue until
January Cth, no action could be ttken by the representatives
until January 7, 1955. On that lay the Emoasny arranged
for an informal meeting b tween the A eric:n representatives
Ar. Dickover being present.
and r. Kurusu at the Tokyo Club,/ The Britisn representa-
tives an Mr. Sansom of the British Embassy were also pre-
sent. No serious discucsion of t oil problems took place
at this meeting, but r. Kurusu ased thet he be given a
memoran um of any points, outside those covered in the re-
present tions already made by the Embusuies, which the re-
presentetives wished to discuss. The representatives of
the oil intercsts the efore drew up a memoranlum of points
which they wished to discuss, which was sent to Mr. Kurusu
1/
on the 8th. A copy of this memorondun is enclosed herevith.
It will be noted that the memoranlun contains no mention
of the petroleum sales monopoly in "Manchukuo". As the
monopoly question, unlike the petroleum control question
in Japan, involves international rights and agreements as
well as comaercial interests, the special representatives
of the oil companies fecl that it will be best not to at-
tempt to negotiate on the question, at least until such
time as all diplomatic resources have been exhausted. At
the

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
the same time they intend, by occasional mention of the
"Manchukuo" monopoly, to convey the impression to the
Japanese officials that the two questions are more or
less linked in their minds.
The serious discussions coa enced on January 9,
1935,and were held at the Tokyo Club (almost the only
place in Tokyo where one c'n escape from newspaper ropor-
ters) in order to avoid premature and misleading news-
paper publicity. The foreign re pr sentatives consisted
of the three American and Britis) special representatives
of the oil companies, assisted by Mr. Goold and Mr. Malcolm,
while the Japanese representutives consisted of Mr. S.
Kurusu, Chief of the Bur au of Comnercial Affairs of the
Foreign Office, and Mr. Yoshino, Vice Minister of Coamerce
and Industry. Mr. Kurusu's secretary acted as secretary
of the meetings and took notes of the ciscussions. No
representatives of the American and British Embassies at-
tended the meetings, as it was deemed best not to inject
an official note into the discussions, at least until it
became necessary to secure official recognition of some
agreement or devlopment.
The discussions of the 9th and loth were confined al-
most entirely to explanations by the Japanese officials of
the aims and operation of the Petroleum Industry Law and
its enforcing regulations. The atmosphere of the discus-
sions was friendly and, according to the American representa-
tives, the Japanese appeared to have a sincere desire to
find some modus operandi which would be satisfactory to
the foreign oil companies, but, for the time being, at
least,

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
least, refused to comnit themselves by advancing any
definite proposals for modification of the law or regu-
lations. The American represent:tives believ that the
discussions will not bring forth any definite results
until about the mid le of next week.
Notes of the discussions are oeing taken in Japanese
by Mr. Kurusu's secretary. These notes will be translated
by the foreign oil comoanies, and after being checked, will
be embodied in memoranda of tn conversations. Copies
will be supplied to the Embassy and will be transmitted
to the Department as soon as available.
Japan's Search for Oil.
2/3
There are enclosed cli) ings fron the JAPAN TIMES AND
MAIL, issue of January 5, 1935, and the JAPAN ADVERTISER,
issue of January 7, 1935. The first contains an account
of an alleged offer to sel? an oil-field in Mexico to the
Nippon Oil Com any and quotes the TOKYO ASAHI as stating
that the Japanese authorities and oil conpanies have been
endeavoring for some time past to obtain permanent sources
of crude oil outside the United States, as it is "consider-
ed undesirable from the viewpoint of national policy" to
be depenuent upon the United States for sup lies of crude
oil. The second clip ing contains a denial from Mexico
that any plan to sell an oil-field to Japanese interests
is contemplated.
Respectfully yours,
3
Enclosures:
1/ Copy of Memorandum of
Agenda of Conversations.
2/Clipping from JAPAN TIMES,
Joseph C. Grew
January 5, 1935.
3/ Clipping from JAPAN ADVER-
TISER, January 7, 1935.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.96)
to despatch
Euclosure No
No 112L of Ja.10,1935 from the
. bassy at Tokyo.
The oil companies' representatives wish first to
request th Hinister's explanatlon of the Government's
policy and cims in adopting the Petroleum Industry Lav,
and in ac ition wish to discuss the follov.ing points:
1. Guarantee of trace.
. tock-keeping.
3. Price fixing.
4. Exchange Control Law and withdrawal of investments.
5. Refining within Japan.
6. Restrictions on the transfer, abolition or sus-
pension of business.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.97)
close No
to despatch
No1126. Jau. 10, 19.3s-from the
F:
The Japan Times.
Tokyo, Saturday, January 5, 1935.
Mexican Oil Field
Offered For Sale
To Japanese Firm
Asahi Report Creates
Sensation In Local
Petroleum Industry
MANY OFFERS MADE
Government Desires Diversi-
fication Of Supply In
Interests Of Defense
A "certain foreign firm" has
formally proposed the sale of
petroleum-fields which it owns in
Mexico to the Nippon Oil Co.,
causing a sensation in Japanese
oil circles, reports the Tokyo
Asahi this morning.
Details of the offer, according
to the same paper, are being kept
secret, but in view of its nature,
great importance is attached to
developments in the matter.
Following the enforcement last
year of the Oll Law providing for
tne establishment of oll refneries
in the country under State super-
vision, the question of how to recure
permanent sources of crude oll sup-
plies has come to the fore.
In this connection, efforts have
silicc been made jointly by the au-
thoritles and the leading oil rms
of the country, but no satlsfactory
plons have yet been mapped out.
The Asahi points out that the
nnior portion of crude oil at pre-
sent is being imported fron the
United States, but that this is con-
sidered undesirable from the view-
pcia! of national policy.
Herce, the paper states, plans
tave been under way for some time
past to import crude oll from other
parts of the world.
The paper adds that many, toreign
ail interests such as the Anglo-Per-
sian, Caucusus and Rumanian Oil
Companies as well as several rnis
In Bouth Amekica have already ap-

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.98)
Fuclusure No
No 1126 of Jou. 10, 1935- from the
heesv ut Tokvo.
The Japan Advertiser.
Tokyo, Yonday, January 7, 195.
MEXICAN SOURCES DENY
OIL FIELD DEAL IS ON
Purchase of Producing Terri-
tory by Japan Declared 'Im-
possible' by Officials
Nippon Dempo-United Press
MEXICO CITY. Jauary 5.—Strong
denial was made here today that ne-
gatiations are under way for the pur-
chase of a large oil field in Mexico
by the Japan Oil Company, as report-
ed in the Tokyo Asahi. Officials of
il concerns characterized such a deal
is "impossible." and the spokesman
of the Japanese Legation said he was
even ignorant of the souree of the re-
port.
Unefficial observers expressed the
opinion that the Mexican Government
would prevent such a transaction, as
a company was recently organized
under Government auspices to pre-
serve Mexico's natural oil resources.
This company. it was remarked. will
move immediately to purchase any
worthwhile field placed on the market.
Representative banking interests re-
cently announced they had offered to
refund Mexico's foreign debt in ex-
change for a petroleum monopoly.
and that the offer had been refused.

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
264
(NOT FOR THE PRESS)
 (FOR DEPARTMENTAL USE ONLY)
Department of State
Division of Current Information
No. 19
At the press conforonce this morning Under Secretary
 Phillips made available to the correspondents a list of
regulations governing the admission of journalists to the
League premises, as promulgated by the Secretary-General of
V
the Lea ue of Nations.
JAPAN
A corrcspondent inquired whether the Japanese Government
had made a reply to the last American communication concerning
the oil situation in Japan. The Under Secretary informed the
correspondents FOR BACkGROUND that the oil question was await-
ing tho outcome of conferences between representatives of the
oil companies and Japanese authorities. He added that he
presumed the meetings were continuing to take place but that
he could not give very procisc information because no definite
informaticn rogarding the meetings had been received of late.
In reply to a query whether the Japanese authorities had
agreed also to take up directly with the oil representatives
the Manchukuo oil monopoly question, the Under Secretary said
that he would prefer not to discuss this matter for the prosent,
although he assumed that the whole question was under discussion.
A correspondent observed that there had been a report from
Tokyo to the cffect that the representatives of the oil companies
were discussing with the Japanese officials the possibility of
havins to put in storage only a threc-months' supply of oil
instead of a six-months' supply as originally stipulated. The
Under Secretary stated that he could not say what were en-
visagcd in the discussions taking place because no reports
regardin the discussions had been received here.
CHAHAR
A correspondent inquired whethor the Department had re-
ceived any information regarding tho reported Japanese attack
on Chahar. Mr. Phillips said that one or two inconclusive
reports had been reccived on this subject but that the Depart-
ment was not fully informed rogarding what had transpired.
Asked whether the cvents taking place in Chahar constituted
a Japanesc invasion or a revolt on the part of the Chahar Arnry
in order to establish an independent government, Mr. Phillips
said that he would prefer not to discuss the matter until more
complete reports were at hand.
BRAZIL
A corrcspondent inquired whether Mr. Phillips had dis-
cussed with thc Brazilian Ambassador the purpose of the visit
of the Brazilian Financial Mission. Mr. Phillips stated that
he had not seen tho Brazilian Ambassador during the past day
or two.
In

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.98)
-2
In reply to a question whether the Department had been
informed concerning the general purposes of the visit and
whether there was any comment which could be made in this
connection, the Under Secrotary said that, of course, the
Department wes aware of tho reasons, gcnerally speaking,
for the Mission's presence in Washington but that there was
no conment which ho could make for the prosent.
A correspondent inquired how long the Brazilian Mission
would remain in Washington and asked whether anything could
be said with regard to the future plans of the Mission.
Mr. Phillips replied that ne did not know how long the Mission
expected to remain hore.
M. J. McDERMOTT

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
3
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
D
This telegram must be
closely par phrased be-
fore being communicated
to anyone (B)
Dated January 31 1935,
Rc1 6:54 A.1.
JA
rle
Searetury of State,
Washington.
FAR LASTEIN AFFAIR
894.6363/174
21, January 31, 7 p..
147
4
Departmont's 10, January 30, 6 p. m.
Conversations progressin steadily but no conerctc
results yet obtaincd. Ja anusc offieials promis. efinitc
written reply next wee! t, mumorandun recently submitted
by forcign cil companies c taining thcir desiderata and
it is hoped then to bo a l to report speeifie results.
GREW.
B
294.6363/169
F
FLLED

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.82)
January 81 10abf
669
693.113-(M
894.6363/174A
tthe Amersem Anbasseder,
Tange.
The Seesetary of State refers to previeus cerrespemé
in regard to the eil situations in Japan and in Manekuria
and emeleses, as of possible interest to the Ambessséer in
eummestien sitk the stady of the ail indastry as a whele, a
Gegy ef am artiale by Y. R. Garfias and R. Y. wmetsel
emtisled "Terld Oil Cemsamptien Nert Year to Rival 19s9",
as yublished in the Desamber 27, 1954, issue of THE 61L AND
GAS JOUMEAL.
202
E
m.210.
atwe oopy of
y
17
1935PW

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.96)
TEJL
SOURCE: TH OIL AND GAS JOURNAL.
December 27, 1934,
BCR
page 36.
WORLD OIL CONSUMD TION NEXT YT AR TO RIVAL 1929
By V. R. GARFLS and R. V. N  1.
Foreigm Oil Department, Henry L. Doherty . Co., New York
The world's produotion of petroloum in 1934 will equal,
1f not surpass the peak output of l92s. of the 21 most im-
portant producing countries, the yield in all but eight will
be higher than in any previous year while the out ut of the
merioan fields will be surpassed only by the peak or 1929.
The world's oonsumption of petrolown, its produots and
related fuels will reach a new high figure for the last four
years whioh are those in whioh worl statistics of consump-
tion are available.
The most important ha penin durin the year was the
plaoing in operetion of the pipe lines fron the Ira fields
to Ilaifa and Tripoli thus makin aveilable to the world's
markets this important oil reserve. In 193. Iruc should
outrank colombia as un oil roducer.
nited tates
The year ends with the lowest volwae of crude and re-
fined cils in storae in winy yeare ses able 1), with
consumption mountin to new peaks and production near to
actual re uiroments und comanding prices th t assure the
average producor some profit. Unfortunately th rice of
refined products hos been disastrousl lower then warranted
by the orude prioes. his maladjustment is largel: due to
lack of co-operation within the industry, whioh has ugain
amply demonatrated its inability to co-operate construotive-
ly. In faot, at a recent convention the industr: was only
able to agree upon interstate compaots as a source of sta-
bility and this agreement must have been obviously reached
with full knowledge that suoh compacts are unworkable for
years to come. This muddling through process will probably
continue inderinitely until suoh time us the unquestionably
inadequate oil reserves compel the federal Covernment to in-
sist on the development of new pools under  system of "unit
operation" as being the one step that will correct, at 1ts
source, the maludjustment in question.
t the end of the year the Commodity  xohange, of New
York, annoumoed their intention to initiate trading in erude
oil and gasoline on Fobruery 5th of 1935. The industry will
no doubt watoh with interest the operation of this new
ageney, particularly if it results in stabilizing priee
rluotuations of orude and gasoline more in line with actual
conditions

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
conditioms and if it helps to establish a reasonable differ-
ential between the prices or crude oil and gasolime.
Iraa
Pumping of the Iraq oil from the Kirkuk Field started
about the middle of the year on the northern line and the
first tanker shipmont from Tripoli to the refinery at Le
Havre took place in ugust. he orude has a gravity of
35.5 .I. and contains olose to 2 per cent of sulphur.
In
its refining ualities 1t 1s similar to the  1ohigan and
Crane-Upton orudes in the nited tates.
The ripol1 line is 531 miles lon while the line to
Haifa is 87 miles longer, bein ca able of transporting
about 40,000 bbls. daily eaoh. It is estimated that the
"ripoli fine can now operate to ful? ca, acity and that the
Haife line will reno o acit o time next pril. uring
1935 some 25.000,000 of Iraq oil will find their wa. to the
world's markets prinoipall in uro  nd some readjustment
of trade routes will thereb be inevitable.
umania
The oil industry in umaniu has been further domoral-
ized owin: to over-production, overnment restrictions, and
ourrency regulations. it should be noted that almost 8o per
cent of the Tumanian production is ex orted and that the
currencies secured from these ex orts furnish one of the
prinoipal sources of forein exohange to the hmanian Gov-
ornment. hese exchange operations controlled by the gov-
mment, the hih freight rates in the government owned
railways for petrolew: nd its produots from the fields to
tidewater couple with over roduotion at home and oversupply
abrond have placed the waanian oil producer and exporter in
a very preoarious condition.
The inoreasin availability of Iraq oil will probably
aggravate the conditions under whioh the rumanian produeer
is now working.
Japan and Manohukuo
The Japanese iet onaoted a law providing for the gov-
ernment control of the petroleum industry through a lioems-
ing system for imports and refining, whioh became effeetive
on July lst. The law provides for a six months' storage re-
serve of oil imports.
Later in the year, Japanese controlled Manchukuo
created an oil monopoly and a company, subsidized by the
Japanese Navy, started the construction of a refinery at
Dairen. This monopoly has been the subjeet of diplomatie
discussion

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.95)
- 3-
diseussiom between Great Britain, the United States and
Japan, the outeome of which is yet in doubt. In this com-
neotion, it should be remembered, that in order to supply
the needs of Japan and Manehukuo the crude is now imported
preferably from the Far Fastern fields whioh are controlled
by the same nglish and merioan interests now marketing
their produots in Japan and Manohukuo.
Bahrein sland
The first tanker loed fro threin slane rrived in
an ranoisco, al., on ctober of thi or, consimod to
the tandard il of cal., wich oms the ahrein conoession
coverin the entire island wi  roxim te rea of about
215 square miles. he oil s ravit of S .I. and is
somewhet similr to t crsi cr e. ther coneessions
have boen rnted to n lis it  interost in the
neighboring mainlnd of pibl   lor to artlin: 1s
to be expeoted in the nor ture.
 well was brou ht in  solf  near etit joun in
Pronoh Morrocco and soon was mine ire. dditional
drillin is now bein: carrie on in the inmmedi te vioinity,
the structure of which i consiserabl listurbed thus mak-
in the possibilities o lar producin aron problomatic.
The larcest refiner i mmee was put in operation in
1u34 with  capuoit. of 1,) bbls. or about one-fifth of
the combined oapaoit of the other renoh plnts. Phis
added refinin: oapacit h's resulted in deoline of im-
ports of refined products un n inorease of orude inports,
a condition whioh shoul: be nore virkod in 1935 when the
Iraq orude is delivered t 'ri ol: at the rate of 40,000
bbls. daily.
The produotion in rinidad is the largest within the
British mpire. he legislature of the island has urged
the Home Government to grant preferenoo to the oil produets
produood within the mpire. It should be notei that petro-
leun products produced in tho ritish Domain or Colonies
are no adnitted dut free in Conada where cmude oil from
any souroe is likewise adnitted free.
In lexioo the operation of the government sponsored
company, etromex (Compania de Petroleos de Mexico, .A.).
under the new administration which took office December i
will be followed with great interest by the oil companies
doing business in Mexioo. The Government owms all of Class
"A" stook, aggregating 50 per cent of the capital stook, and
blooks of class "B" stook, which can be acquired only by
Mexioan oitizens, are now owmed by the Mexican Railroads
(the largest consumer of petroloun produots in Mexioo) and
some

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.98)
some influential interests close to the administration.
Tables 2 and 3 show the figures of produotion and
consumption for 1933 and cstimates for 1934.

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.94)
- 5-
Table 1
Stocks at End of Year
(In thousands of
barrels)
crude(a)
Motor fuel(b)
Fuel o1l
4180.
Total
1931
370,019
56.171
135,856
58,727
021.673
1932
1933
339,715
355.312
53,805
55.933
129.881
1:3,500
66,705
38,462
590.106
603.207
1934(c)...340.000
50:000
11,000
66,100
566,000
(2)
xoludes Culiforni
below
(b)
xoludes unfinished asoline.
(0)
stimated; other fi uren fro
O!
able
orld Iroduotion or
etrole nd
olate
uels
(Thousands of b rrele)
1934
1333
Hatural
Natural
gaso-
gaso-
1ine
line
Crude
benzol
rude
bonzol,
petroleum
etc
otal
etrolewn
eto.
Total
Uni ted
tates
898.874
083
35.057
000.000
56,700
944,700
Russia
147,077
66
147.737
106,000
750
166,750
Venezuela
120.882
40
11.54
139,000
600
139,600
Persia
Rumania
50.971
49,581
850
800
51.821
50,501
60,000
50000
1,000
850
61.000
52.850
Dutoh ast
Mexioo
Colombin
Argentina
Peru
Trinidad
Indies
38,51
33.905
13,157
13,955
13,925
9.560
1,600
38:
380
820
920
90
40,11
34.287
13.557
14.175
14,845
9.650
37000
41,800
14:100
14,000
17:00
10:900
1.700
1.000
450
400
250
100
43,500
37,450
17:400
14,350
15,000
11:000
Poland
British India
Sakhalin
Iraq
8.543
1:200
3.865
2:600
110
501
8,653
1.200
4,366
2.600
4.000
8.800
3,600
600
100
400
8.900
4.000
4,000
2.600
Sarawak
2.288
50
2.338
2,000
50
2.050
Germany
Leuador
Japan
Egypt
Canada
1.935
1.721
1,623
1,591
194
3,159
110
953
41
2,045
4,880
1.147
1,623
1.632
2.100
1,450
8.000
1,800
240
3.100
1,110
120
50
2,120
1,500
5.200
1.800
1,350
Others
907
3.892
4.799
1.600
3.700
5.300
1,416,867
50,261 1,467,128
1,489,990
52,430 1,542.420

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.95)
Table 3
mptien of Petroleum. Its Produets and Related Fuele
(In Thousands of Barrels)
1933
1934
tmited States
865,447
900,000
95,500
97.000
United Kingdom
66.903
73.500
France
37:059
39,000
Canada
31.471
34.000
Germany
23.537
27:000
Argentina
0.700
:1.400
Japan
10.190
1.500
Mexioo
14.886
15,000
Rumania
15,886
14,500
British India
1,600
1::900
Italy
10.61
13,100
Dutch
nst Indies
10,100
10:300
ustrali
10,000
10,800
Porsia
8.855
00
Dutoh
est Indies
8.100
6.700
China
7.745
6
100
Holland
7,311
700
weden
0.06
200
Venezuela
5,900
400
Spain
5.431
300
Egypt
380
5
300
Brazil
4
600
Denmark
340
4.500
Belgium
220
4.300
Cuba
589
0.600
Union orouth fric
467
600
Norway
3
371
450
Philippine Islands
351
400
Czeohoslavaki
220
400
Switzerland
010
140
Foland
810
800
Hawa11
782
820
Now Lealand
59
670
British Malay
440
300
Trinidad
327
480
Uruguny
2
250
300
Chile
1,984
100
lgeria
1,95
150
Panama Canal .one
1.921
100
ustria
1.920
000
Iraq
1,881
2
300
Irish Free tate
1.838
790
Hungary
1.408
1.500
Creece
1,388
1,490
Poru
1:350
1.400
P'orto Rico
1,353
1,380
Portugal
1.138
1.150
Finland
1,012
1.100
French Morrooco
981
1,000
Others
25.607
20.500
Total
1,378,650
1,458,020

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.94)
4
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
BC
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
fore beingcommunicated
Tokyo
to anyone (B)
FROM
Dated February 8,1935.
Received 9:55 AM.
894.6363/175
Secretary of State,
Washington.
FAR EASTLN AFFAIRS
A
28 February 8, 6 p.m.
Degartmol t otstite
poy
11.14
My 21, January 81, 7 p.m.
One. A draft of the reply referred to has been
received by the foreign oil companies. While showing some
advance toward an agret: nt, tr reply is disappointing
and insufficient to allay the anxieties of the oil
interests. With the oral assurances already received,
however, it may afford an adequate basis for further
discussion. The conversations were resumed yesterday with
a more conciliatory attit ude on the part of the Japanese,
which may be due to the strong position taken by the
foreign o1l companies in regard to the Manchurian O11
893.6632010
Monopoly (see my 27, February 8, 5 p.m.). The Japanese
officials now seem to recognize the necessity for some
alteration of the oil regulations but state they cannot
MLED
take action until after the Diet session ends because
of the danger of internal political repercussions.
F
Two.
G

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.95)
5
Page 2 from Tokyo No 28.
Two. It was therefore intimated informally to the
special representatives of the oil interests from Japanese
sources that the conversations be suspended for several
weeks and resumed after the close of the Diet. This
suggestion is now under consideration.
GREW
WSB

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.96)
MC
BC
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Tokyo
to anyone (B)
Dated February 8,1935.
Received 9:55 AM.
Secretary of State,
Weshington.
s/
y 21,  mouary
,7.m.
894.4363
One. a draft of the reply roferred to has been
received by the forei oil companies. While showing some
advance toward an agree unt,  reply is disappointing
and insufficient to alley the anxieties of the oil
interests. With the oral assurarces already r ceived,
7
U
however, it may afford an adequate basis for further
discussion. The conversations were resumed yesterday with
a more conciliatory attit ude on the part of the Japanese,
which may be due to the stron position taken by the
foreign oil companies in regard to the Manchurian Oil
ancammn /13 
Monopoly (see my 27, February 8, 5 p.m.). The Japanese
officials now seem to recognize the necessity for some
alteration of the oil regulations but state they cannot
take action until after the Diet session ends because
of the danger of internal political repercussions.
Two.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 2 from Tokyo No 28.
Two. It was therefore intimated informally to the
special representatives of the oil interests from Japanese
sources that the conversations be suspended for several
weeks and resumed after the close of the Diet. This
suggestion is row under consideration.
GREW
WSB

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Zwat
February 16, 1935.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1l45 of
January 25, 1935, which outlines the
progress thus far made in the course
of the conversations between Japanese
officials and the special representa-
tives of the foreign oil interests,
requires no action.
It is, I believe, not necessary
that you read the despatch under refer-
ence. However, in view of the impor-
tance of the subject, if you have suf-
ficient time I suggest that you read
this report which is most interesting
and illuminating.
reews
RCM:EJL

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
(Jm)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, January 25, 1935.
No. 1145.
Subject:
American Oil Interosts in Japan.
ycle
894.6363/176
A
10
1..:A
CONFIDENTIAL.
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
E/B
514119
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1126, dated January 10, 1935, in regard to the conver-
sations now being held in Tokyo betwecn representatives
of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and the British Shell
oil interests on the one side and the Vice Minister for
Commerce and Industry and the Chief of the Bureau of Com-
mercial Affairs of the Foreign Office on the other, and
FTLED
to report that the memoranda of the conversations, to
which reference was made on page 7 of the despatch mentioned
above.

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
above, have only just come into the possession of the
Embassy. The notcs of the conversations were taken in
Japanese by Mr. Yoshino's secr tary. These notes were
translated into English by the foreign oil com anies,
checked with the ment:l notes of te conversations of
each one of the reprcsentatives, and the rcsult finally
embodied in memoranda. The memoranoa are lengthy and
the process of compiling them required considerable time.
The Embassy has not sufficient time to copy the memoran-
da for this mail, nor even to compile a thorough summary
thereof, but the following brief resumé of thc results of
the conversations up to January 15 will serve to indicate
the progress of the discussions.
Progress of the Conversations.
The conversations of the first two days (January 9
and 10) were devoted to explanations by Mr. Yoshino, the
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, of the purposes
and probable operation of the Petroleum Industry Law. Ac-
cording to Mr. Yoshino, the objectives of the Law are the
stabilization of the whole petroleum market in Japan and
the protection of the Japanese petroleum industry. The
objective of the system of licenses is to protect the oil
interests by preventing raids on the market such as vas
made recently by Soviet gasoline. There is to be no dis-
crimination between Japanese and foreign oil com anies,
but the Government wishes as far as possible to develop
refining in Japan and to import crude oil instead of re-
fined products. Powers under the Law are given to Army
and

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
and Navy authorities, but these are to be used only in
time of emergencies and the real purpose of the Law is
to secure a smooth and steady supply of oil. It seemed
that the oil companies, which would benefit by the law,
should be willing t bear in return th burden of carry-
ing stocks.
In regard to a guarentee of future trace, Mr. Yoshino
stated that the demand in Japan for petroleum products
was developing too f: st to per: it th. fixing of : definite
period for licenses. The law, combined with the Japanese
Constitution (which guaruntees freedon of trade), however,
gives the foreign oil com anies the right to resort to
litigation against the Government if the: belicve them-
selves to have been wronged in regare to licenses or quo-
tas. of course, if the demand for oil should suffer re-
duction because of the discovery of some new fuel, the
decrease would have to be borne by all the companies equally.
The Government, however, ight consicer some system which
would sanction past trace and recuire licenses only to cover
the increase in the trace.
The Department of Commerc an Industry considered the
question of refineries in Japan purely from an economic
viewpoint and not from thc standpoint of national defense.
(Mr. Yoshino on several occasions voiced the opinion that
the Petroleum Industry Law was primarily economic in charac-
ter and had little relation to national defense - probably
to avoid arguments such as might be advanced by the Embassies
in regard to violations of provisions in the treaties between
Japan and other countries). Now that Japanese refining
capacity

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
capacity was nearly filled, the Government might consider
the giving of a guarantee of future trade, based on a per-
centage of the total trade and not on volume alone.
Stock-keeping, according to Mr. Yoshino, is not a
crisis measure, lut is necessary for t e protection of
Japanese industries. It will be necessary to find measures
to pay for stock-keeping, as the oil com anies cannot be
expected to meet the cost from their own pockets. Govern-
ment subsidies, a raise in prices an economies through
rationalization have been considered. Japan never subsi-
dizes foreign firms and cannot afford any subsidies at pre-
sent. Price r ising is possible, but the Government wishes
first to try economies through rationalization as a means
to meet the cost of stock-keeping. However, the Japanese
Government does not adopt a "take it or leave it" attitude
toward the law. If the law proves to be economically un-
workable, steps must be taken. Mr. Yoshino suggested that
in such event, the foreign and Japanese oil companies join
forces and protest, thus protecting the Department of Com-
merce and Industry from attacks in the Diet and from the
public. If six months' stocks prove to be too great a bur-
den, the matter will be reconsidered.
In regard to price fixing by the Government, Mr. Yoshino
said that it as not the purpose of the law that the Govern-
ment should regulate prices under normal conditions. The
Government intends to interfere only if prices become too
high. The problem is to ascertain what constitutes too high
a price.
In regard to the operation of the exchange control law
n

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
in connection with the possibility that the foreign
oil companies might wish to sell out their Japan in-
vestments, Mr. Yoshino stated that the purpose of the
exchange control law was to prevent speculative exports
of capital hut not to impede legitimate business. The
Government would not, therefore, refuse a legitimate re-
quest to export funds, and should thc foreign oil companies
wish to retire from the Japanese market and send the pro-
ceeds of the sale of their properties to their home coun-
tries, Mr. Yoshino believed that permission could easily
be obtained. He hoped, however, that this contingency
would not arise.
In regard to the cuestion of rofining in Japan, Mr.
Yoshino st ted that there was nothing in the law vhich
allowed discrimination because of nationality. At present,
however, there is idle refining ecuipment in Japan and
therefore it would be unwise to permit the erection of fur-
ther refining equipment. Exceptions would, however, be
made in the case of the foreign oil companies, because of
their established trade in Japan. In the roply made by the
Japanese Government to the representations of the Embassies
in Tokyo, it was suggested that Japanese capital be taken into
any refining companies established by the foreign firms in
Japan. This suggestion was made because of the possibility
that subsidies might be given to Japanese refineries in the
future, and in order to qualify for such subsidies the foreign
firms would have to take in more than half Japanese capital.
Such subsidies are a remote possibility. Otherwise there
will be no discrimination between Japanese and foreign refiners.
In

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
In regard to the restrictions in the Petroleum Indus-
try Law on the transfer, abolition or suspension of business,
Mr. Yoshino said that permission for such actions was re-
quired because the oil industry partook of the character
of a public utility which must be maintained intact for
the public good. The law is intendec, however, to prevent
speculative transactions in the accuisition and transfer
of rights to import or refine, and is not intended to in-
terfere with bona fide transacticns.
In the course of the first two days' conversations,
the representatives of thc foreign oil co anies briefly
presented their views on th situation. They stated that
the foreign oil interests realized Japan's oil problems
and wished to assist in finding a solution of those problems.
They thought, however, that the foreign oil companies, be-
cause of their interest in this market, should have been
consulted before the Petroleum Industry Law was drafted.
They thought that the trade and investments of the oil im-
porting firms should receive consideration equal to that
accorded to other (Japanese refining) firms. If the Japan-
ese refiners have idle equipment, it should be remembered
that refiners in other countries are in even a worse situation,
and that therefore they might consider it necessary to put
an embargo on the exportation of crude oil. Refining in
Japan is not economical, for various reasons. The problem
therefore exists of trying to reconcile the purely economic
view of the foreign oil companies with the views of the
Japanese Government, which are based on other than purely
economic grounds.
The

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
The representatives of the foreig oil companies also
pointed out that large stocks of oil are not really neces-
sary from an industrial viewpoint and that therefore the
investment therein is a dead loss. Great Britain, as an
example, never has more than three months' stocks in the
British Isles. The Japanese Government, however, insists
upon six months' stocks and requires the industry to pay
for these stocks. Further rationalization of the industry
will not meet te cost of carrying these stocks, and it
will be necessary to modify the regulations.
The later conversations, held on January 14, 15, 16,
17 and 23, dealt with the various problems in detail and
consisted largely of discussion of technical points. The
conversation of January 14 was concerned principally with
the question of guarantees of trade, and eventually the
Japanese officials agreed in principle to guarantee a per-
centage of the total trae, based on past sales, but only
after the idle Japanese refining equipment is cared for.
New comers to the field are not ordinarily to be recognized
or given licenses. An absolute percentage guarantee cannot be
given now, however, because of the necessity of taking up the
slack in the refining capacity of Japan, and also because
Japan may find a cheap supply of crude which would, through
the natural laws of economics, drive the importing firms out
of the field.
The conversation on the 15th was devoted principally to
a discussion of the various costs which should be considered
in connection with price-fixing, and it was decided to ap-
point a sub-committee to draw up a formula for the Government's
assistance

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
-8-
assistance in considering prices. The conversation also
included a discussion of the stock-keeping requirements.
Mr. Yoshino in this connection assured the representatives
of the foreign oil companies that the required six months'
stocks could include all stocks in the country, wherever
situated and in whatever containers packed (in a later con-
versation, the memorandum of vwhich has not yet come to the
Embassy, Mr. Yoshino stated that the stocks could also in-
clude all oils on the water and en route to Japan). Mr.
Yoshino also stated that the purpose was to interpret the
law as flexibly as possible.
Although over two weeks have elapsed since the conver-
sations started, nothing concrete has as yet been evolved.
The representatives of the foreign oil companies are not
discouraged, however, and believe that a workable agreement
will eventually be reached.
The Manchurian oil monopoly has not been seriously dis-
cussed as yet, although mention of the monopoly has been
made in the course of the conversations.
Respectfully yours,
K.1tC
Joseph C. Grew
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/ 177
894.00 P.R./85
SEE
FOR .#1136
FROMJapan
(..Grew
...) DATED .......1B...1935
TO
NAME
1127
REGARDING:
The Japanese Petroleum Industry Law.
FRG.

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.97)
(r) The Japanese Petroleum Industry Law.
Heving obtained the agreement of the oil companies oon-
cerned, or Decumber  7 the Amerioun and British Embassies
made ora? an informal represent tions along the lines sug-
gestet in ar graphe 6 an 8 of the Embassy's telegram No.
274
*Embessy's despatches No. 107, Novomher 30, 1934 and No. 1097
December 19, 1374.
No.274 of Decomber 1?, with regurd to the ap licat on of the
Japanese Pet oleum Industry Law. The following day Mr.
Kurusu, Chief of th: Comnercial Divi ion of the Foreign Of-
fice, informed the mbas. y that officials of the Department
of Commerce an Industry oul welcome discussions with the
Directors of the Standard Vacuum Oil Company and the Hising
Bun Potroleum Company, then in Shangha1. Mr. Kurusu also
gave information to the mbasy which was urobahly intonded
as the reply to th represont tions made on Dec mber 7, a1-
though not spooifioally labeled as such.* The Embassy gained
the impression from Mr. Kurusu thet the Japanese offieials
were adopting a more reasonable attitude toward the probloms
of the foreign oil companles in Japan.

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Maroh 6, 1935.
Tokyo's despatoh No. ll68 of
Fobruary 8, 1935, reports in consider-
able detail the course of the conversa-
tions then being held between the
special representatives of the foreign
oil interests and Japanese officials.
From telegraphic reports of dates
subsequent to that of the despatch
under reference and from a letter
received by the Department from the
New York offices of the Standard-
Vacuum Company we know that the con-
versations terminated with but little
accomplished toward arriving at a
mutually satisfactory compromise.
However, there exists a possibility
that, with the adjournment of the Diet,
Japanese officials may feel themselves
in position to offer more generous
terms to the oil companies when the
conversations are resumed about the
first of April.
neuz
RCM:EJL

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 8, 1935.
No. 1168.
Subject: Americ n Oil Intersts in Japan.
oto
HECEIVED
FLD 23 1035
DIVIBION OF
4
894.6363
894.6363/178
X
CLASSIFICATION  Ay: e
of 5.2064 fiom Dondld 1. Sn, Sate, Dept.
The Honorable
ByrDete 3//
The Secretar: of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Emoassy's despatch
176
No. 1145, dated January 25, 1935, in regard to the diffi-
culties now being experienced y American and other foreign
oil interests in Japan and to the conversations now being
held in Tokyo between representatives of those interests
and representatives of the Japanese Government, and to re-
port that the conversations have been progressing steadily,
although as yet the results thereof have not been embodied
in any final form.
FILED
Progress

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Progress of the Conversations.
The memoranda of the conversations are lengthy and
deal largely with intricate technical details, and it is
believed that no useful purpose would be served in having
then all copied and transmitted to the Department.
If the
Department so desires, however, this will be done.
During the conversation of January 23, 1935, it was
decided that, as the various points of the Petroleum In-
dustry Law and its enforcing reguletions, as well as the
methods of application of the Law, ha been thoroughly
discussed in the meetings already held, the foreign oil
companies should draw up a nemorandum embodying their views
in regard to the difficulties stil confronting them in
connection with the Law and its application. A draft memo-
randum was therefore p epared and handed to the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry and to Mr. Kurusu, of the Foreign
Office, on January 25, 1935. A copy of this memorandum,
which will explain the progress of the conversations up to
1/
that time, is enclosed herewith. On January 30, 1935, the
representatives of the forcign oil inte ests met the Japan-
ese officials for the purpose of discussing the memorandum
and of deciding upon any alterations which might be necessary
to make it acceptable to the Japanese Government. As this
conversation was rather important, as indicating the wide
divergency of views which still exists between the foreign
oil companies and the Japanese Government, a copy of the
21
memorandum of the conversation is enclosed. As is indicated
in the memorandum of the conversation, the two sides are not
yet agreed on the basis for allotting quotas, on the stock-
keeping

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
keeping question and on the price-fixing problem.
On February 4, 1935, the Vice Minister for Commerce
and Industry delivered to the two foreign oil companies
his draft reply to the draft memorandum. A copy of the
3/
reply is enclosed herewith. It vil? be noted th:t, ac-
cording to the draft reply, the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry is not willing to give a guarantee of a percentage
of the oil tra e; that while the Department of Commerce and
Industry does not intend to deprive the foreign oil com-
panies of their vested interests, the legislators of Japan
intend to encourage refining by giving more favoreble cuo-
tas to domestic refiners than to importers; that the De-
partment of Comerce and Industry will con uct a study of
the compar:tive advantages of refining in Japan and of im-
porting refined products, with thc result that (1) if the
importation of refine products is foun to be more advan-
tageous, the foreign oil companies wil? be relieved of their
anxieties, and (2) if refining in Japan is found to be more
advantageous, the present importers cn protect their in-
terests by refining in Japan; that after the slack Japanese
refining capacity is filled "the Department will not make
any unfair treatment arbitrarily as between the refiner
and importer"; that the foreign oil companies cannot hope
for any subsidies for stock-keeping or for any postponement
of the application of the regulations governing stock-keeping,
but that the Department of Commerce and Industry will be as
lenient as possible in this regard within the scope of the
existing regulations; and that in the future the Department
of Commerce and Industry will take the cost of imported oil
into

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.99)
into consideration in fixing prices of oil.
It is unnecessary to state that the foreign oil in-
terests consider this reply as most unsatisfactory.
More disturbing than the unsatisf ctory character of
the reply itself, however, was a vorbal message delivered
with the draft reply. This, as translated by the Rising
Sun Petroleum Company, was as follows:
" This document is a draft of the official
answer to your reuircnent,made by Mr.
Yoshino. If you are satisfied with its con-
tents Mr. Yoshino wil get the approval of
the Minister and issue the official letter
in due course. He is ready to make an ap-
pointment to discuss your amendments in
this draft if they are small points, like
wording or other minor points, but if you
are not satisfied totally an on the whole,
he would not find any necessity to make an
appointment of meeting."
This appeared to constitute an ultimatum. The foreign oil
interosts could either accept the draft reply substantially
as it was, or the conversations would cease. The represen-
tatives of the oil interests consequently conferred on
February 5 with Mr. Sansom of the British Embassy, Count
von Rechteren of the Netherlands Legation and är. Dickover
of this Embassy. It was decided that the only possible
course of action consisted of an attempt to ascertain exact-
ly what Mr. Yoshino meant by his message. Mr. Sansom had
an appointment with Mr. Kurusu of the Foreign Office for
the following morning, and volunteered to make inquiries
regarding the message. On February 6 he informed Mr. Kurusu
in regard to the message and stated that the foreign companies!
feelings with regard to Mr. Yoshino's reply were that the
amendments which they wished to propose were more than small
points, and therefore they were called upon to decide whether
or

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
or not Mr. Yoshino's message closed the door to further
discussion. At the same time he expressed the opinion
that the reply of Mr. Yoshino, plus the oral amplifications
given before, would provide sufficient basis for further
discussions.
Mr. Kurusu was greatly surprised that such a message
had been sent by Mr. Yoshino and immediately instituted
inquiries regarding its authenticity. Later he informed
Mr. Sansom that the message which Mr. Yoshino hac intended
to convey with his reply was that Mr. Yoshino, as an offi-
cial, would find it very difficult to put any more in writ-
ing than was contained in the reply; that he did not want to
stop th conversations but on the contrary was anxious to
have them start again as soon as poss ble; and that while
he could not put more into writing, he thought that some
way could be found to have such oral agrecments as might be
reached confirmed in some way.
It is the general opinion among the oil interests and
the dipiomatic representatives concerned that Mr. Yoshino's
original message was a form of "bluff" - that ne tried by
this means to coerce the forcign oil companies into com-
pliance with the desires of th Japanese Government. When
his "bluff" was called, he promptly receded from his posi-
tion, indicating that the Japanese stand on the oil question
is not as firm as they would have us believe.
The conversations were therefore resumed on February 7.
According to the American representatives, there was a very
distinct change for the better in the atmosphere of the con-
versations when resumed. The Japanese officials intimated
that they would like to alter the oil regulations in favor
of

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
of the foreign oil companies, but that they could not do
so while the Diet is in session, because of the severe
criticism which would be directed against them. They
the efore asked for more time in which to endeavor to meet
the wishes of the foreign oil com anies. This sudden change
in attitude may have been due to a conviction that the
foreign oil firms cou'd not be "oluffed", or may have been
due to orders from above. At any rate, the situation now
app ars more hopeful than at any time since the conversations
started.
Quotas for 1935.
It will be remembered that the gasoline cuota granted
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company for the last half of 1934
was somewhat under its actual sales for the first half of
the year, while the Rising Sun Petroleum Company was allotted
approximately the same amount as it ha sold during the first
six months and the Japanese refineries were allotted the
whole of the natural increase in trade (estimated at from
12 to 15 per cent annual1y). For 1935, however, the whole
of the natural increase of the trade was not given to the
Japanese refiners. It vas estimated that the increase in
the trade in 1935 would amount to 150,000 kilolitres and of
this amount 105,000 kilolitres were allotted to the Japanese
refiners and 45,000 kilolitres to the foreign importing
firms. This was undoubtedly done in order to quiet the com-
plaints of the foreign oil interests, at the same time
giving the bulk of the increase to the Japanese refiners
in accordance with the declared policy of the Japanese Govern-
ment. As omplained by Professor Yoshitaro Wakimura of the
Tokyo

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
Tokyo Imperial University in the JAPAN TIMES of February 6,
1935, Japan is somewhat afraid of antagonizing the foreign
oil producers:
" In the quota for the last half of 1934,
the natural increase was entirely given to
refiners, but in the quota for 1935, a
portion had been given to foreign firms.
In this respect the Japanese oil companies
are much disappointed. But as Japan does
not have the sources of crudc oil supply,
the Government cannot take a very strong
policy. The Government is to avoid the
conflict between the Japanese and foreign
firms as much as ossible, while fostering
the devclopmont of refin ng industry in
the country."
The obvious fact that the Japanese Government is only
permitting the foreign oil companies t, continue in business
because the country lacks oil resources and fears to an-
tagonize the supplying countries does not augur wel! for
the future of the American oil tradc in Japan.
The Search for New Sources of Suuply.
The HOCHI SHIMBUN of January 30, 1935, published an
article to the effect that Mexico, Peru, Colombia and other
countries hav: offered oil fields to Japanese oil companies
but that the Japanese oil companies, owing to lack of funds,
have been unable to take advantage of the offers. According
to the newspaper, the low price of gasoline and the obliga-
tions of the Petroleum Industry Law have caused financial
difficulties to the Japanese oil companies, who desire
either that a subsidized company be formed to exploit oil
fields abroad or that the price of gasoline be raised in
order that they may obtain funds to exploit fields themselves.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
1/Copy of draft Memorandum
from the Foreign Oil Interests.
2/Copy of Memorandum of Conversa- Joseph C. Grew
tion of January 30,1935.
3/Copy of Draft Reply from Mr. Yoshino.
863.6
BRD:g:r

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
Enclosure No/
to despatch
No/680Teluauy8.193erom th
Embassy at Tokyo.
CO PY
Your Excellency:
We wish to express to you our thnks for the great
courtesy that has been shown us and the assistance g ven us by
your Ministry in permitting us to discuss so fully as we have
been able to do during the past few weeks the difficulties
that appear to confront us in connection with the application
of the Petroleum Law No. 26 of 1934.
We have ventured to draw up a statement of its chief
difficulties as we see them, and as we have endeavoured to
present them to His Excellency, Mr. Yoshino, during our
conversations with him. We subnit it herewith in order that it
may be clear to Your Excellency wherein our anxiety lay, and
still does on some of the points to which reference is made.
Mr. Yoshino's kind explanations have gone a long way
towards relieving the anxieties held concerning the future,
but we hope that it will be possible for them to be removed
completely as a result of the replies which we have asked you
to be good enough to make to the cuestions covered by the
Memorandum.
Memorandum

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
DRAFT
MEMORANDUM TO BE SENT TO
THE MINISTRY OF COMMERCE
The Standard Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun
Petroleum Company, Ltd. are very much concerned in that
certain features of the Petroleum Law of 1934 are ad-
versely affecting their interests. They fear that unless
these are corrected during the early stages of the operation
of the Law precedents may be created which it will be diffi-
cult to overcome at a later date. They are therefore
raising these cuestions now to enable the Department to give
definite rulings.
QUOTAS.
Prior to the new Law the joint share of the Gasoline
Market in Japan Proper enjoyed by these two Companies was
Gasoline
Japan materially greater than that allotted to them from time to
Proper.
time since the Law came into effect, and it appears to them
that a different measure has been used in judging the claims
of the local Refiners as compared with those of the Import-
ing Companies. To such an extent has this difference been
applied that these Importing Companies' (i.e. S.V.C. and
R.S.P.Co.) share of the total Gasoline trade has been
reduced by approximately 9% per annum, (30,000,000 A.G.
approximately in 1935) and given to Japanese interests.
The share of the trade enjoyed by the S.V.O.C. and the R.S.P.
Company prior to the date on which the Government first
requested them to restrict their deliveries for the benefit
of local Refiners was 54%, so that if their interests are
not to be sacrificed permanently it is to 54% that the two
Companies' trade should eventually return.
It

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 =
It has been explained that the policy behind the
increase in the share of the trade given to Japanese
Refiners has been the necessity of finding an outlet
for surplus Japanese refining capacity:
Further:-
(a) That at the end of 1935 about 190,000
kilolitres slack capacity will remain to be filled
(b) That the Government does not intend to grant
permits for new refineries nor to allow extensions
that will increase the capacity of existing re-
fineries, until such extensions become necessary
to meet the existing Refiners' relative share of
increased consumption.
(c) That it is definitely the policy of the
Government not to discriminate gainst any of
the Companies now marketing Petroleum products
in Japan, and they particularly will not dis-
criminate as between local Japanese Companies
and the two Importing Companies referred to in
this Memorandum.
It has been further indicated:-
(d) That any reduction in consumption in the
future will be apportioned over all Companies in
relation to their respective shares of the trade.
It has been pointed out that not only is there a
substantially greater percentage of refining capacity shut
down in practically every other refining country as com-
pared with Japan (See Memo marked "Exhibit A".), but that as a
matter of fact it is a practical impossibility to operate
any

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
any refinery up to its theoretical full capacity because
variations in operating conditions and seasonal fluctuations
in the demand for certain products necessitate a margin of
safety beyond which refineries cannot efficiently operate.
This margin is generally accepted as being at least 10%
of the capacity. If general practice in this connection
were accept d, then it is clear th't Japanese Refiners
will, as far as it is vossible to determine, be operating
at full practical capacity by the end of the current year.
However, even if this were not admitted, and assuming that
the consumption of Gasoline during the next few years will
increase at the rate of 12% per annum (which is substantially
less than the average of the past three years, which approx-
imated 14%) nd llowing Japanese Refiners 46% share of this
increase, then the full 100% of refining capacity will be
absorbed by the end of 1037. A Memorandum, marked "Exhibit
B", is attached, showing the calculation in detail.
If, therefore, as explained to the Companies, the
position cannot be disturbed for the year 1935, then by
stabilising the position of the various Companies concerned
on the basis of the quotas allowed them for 1935, but
allowing the present Importers to absorb 54% of the incr ase
in consumption in subsequent years, the Japanese Refiners
will not only find sufficient outlet to take care of their
present capacity by early 1938, but by about the middle
of the year 1937 will need to begin extending their
refineries in order to take care of their share of the
increasing consumption. Furthermore, in view of the
Japanese officials' statement that in the event of a
decrease

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
decrease in consumption the necessary sacrifice would be
spread proportionately over the Companies concerned, it
seems just that the same principle should apply in the
event of an increase in consumption and that all interest-
ed Companies should benefit proportionately to their share
of the trade.
Therefore it is desirable to make it clear that in
the judgment of the Companies the most practical solution,
both in fairness to all the Oil Companies and in the in-
terests of smooth auministration, is to establish quotas
on the basis of a percentage of the total trade.
It will be fully appreciated that, unless the Depart-
ment can reassure the two Companies on this as well as on
the other points set forth in this Memorandum, the present
position can but cause the most lively concern and give
rise to the gravest of doubts as to their ability to
continue to fulfil their share in the smooth and un-
interrupted supply of Petroleum products to Japan, which
is one of the main objects of the Law, and in fact as
to the ultimate value of their position in the Japanese
Gasoline market.
QUOTAS
As the Companies' quotas have been seriously reduced
Gasoline.
for 1935 it is understood that for these areas quotas based
Chosen
and
on the percentage of trade during the year 1934 will be
Taiwan
restored.
QUOTAS.
In connection with other products it is understood that
Other Pro-
ducts
existing shares of the trade will be accepted as the basis
and that all existing Companies will participate proportion-
ately in any increase or decrease in consumption.
With further reference to quotas it has been discussed
and, we believe, agreed that, should one Petroleum product
in

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
in the future be developed in such a manner that it
eventually replaces another Petroleum product, the quota
originally held for the former product shall be trans-
ferred to the latter proauct. As an example, if Gaso-
line for the propulsion of automobiles, trucks, etc.
is displaced by nother Petroleum product, such as
Diesel Oil, the quota of each Company applying to
Gasoline should apply also to Diesel Oil for this
ourpose.
STOCK-KEEP-
In connection with the regulations relat ng to
ING.
stock-keeping, figures have been compiled with the
assistance of the Mining Bureau showing the esti-
mated cost to the Companies concerned. The initial
cost, anounting to bet=n ¥70,000,000 and ¥75,000,000.
for the whole Industry, an additional annual capital
cost of between ¥8,400,000. nd ¥9,000,000. to provide
for additional stocks and storage obligations arising
from increased consumption, as well as an annual
carrying charge amounting to between ¥7,100,000. and
¥7,600,000., even after making due allowance for all
stocks in the country and afloat, is so severe to both
local Refiners and Importers alike that without assist-
ance either monetary, or by the postponement, limitation
or a more practical interpretation of this part of
the regulations, the Petroleum Industry cannot hope to
put it into effect within the bounds of any sound
economic requirement.
REFINING.
It has already been explained that it is extremely
difficult to balance refinery out-turns with the demand
for products in any one market, which difficulty is not
apparent

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
apparent where several markets are supplied from the
same centre. An approximate balance is at present held
between local refining and imports. It is an accepted
principle that local refining without the equivalent amount
of local production and/or protective duties is uneconomic,
and has always been found to lead to hi her prices for
the consumer.
Further, producing countries re showing sins of
uneasiness th t crude vhich has hitherto been produced
and refined there is now being refined in markets where
little or no crude roduction exists to the detriment of
the producing country, and even restrictive measures in
some countries are being contemplated to compel refining
in the country of origin. This uneasiness would be
greatly increased should two international companies be
compelled as a result of th ir entering the refining
business in Japan to re-export distress surplus products
to other markets at present supnlied direct from producing
centres.
The two Importing Companies furnishing finished
products have therefore no plans at present for erecting
refineries. They uncerstand, however, that should they
desire to go into local refining permits will accordingly
be granted.
If the Industry is to realize the benefits intended
by the Law and stressed by the officials it is necessary
to have not only stabilization of prices but also a balance
of products. There should therefore be a closely appro-
ximated balance between the sales quotas granted to
Refiners and quotas for the importation of crude; other-
wise a surplus of crude will be run with resulting excess
of

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
of refined products, and it will be impossible to
maintain the price structure sanctioned by the Government.
It is therefore felt by the two Importing Companies
that the Government should give the Industry some
assurances on this point.
PRICE-
Further, under the regulations the Government have
FIXING.
the right to control prices generally and to take over
stocks in case of emergency. It is clear that unless some
recognized cost and selling price formula, applying to all
Companies and to be used for the purpose of aetermining
a remunerative price basis for the whole Industry, as
well as the price at which stocks will be taken over in
an emergency, be adouted, great confusion will ensue
and complete uncert inty xist as to the return which the
Industry is to receive from time to time for its products.
It is pointed out that no Inaustry can hope to progress
and plan for the future unless it is given reasonable
assurance that the price it is to receive for its
products is at least equal to their cost plus a reasonable
profit. In this connection a sub-committee was appointed
to examine this cuestion and it is understood that the
Government representatives were in agreement with the
representatives of the Oil Companies that the formula
presented was acceptable in principle but were unwilling
at that time to comnit themselves to any detailed figures
or rates for the formula. It is submitted that the formula
loses its value if no rates are included. The Oil In-
dustry has sustained very substantial losses during the
past three years in Japan and the foreign Oil Companies
consider it of the greatest importance to know definitely
what

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
-8 -
what the Government has in mind as permissible prices
for the future. Therefore the Government is respectfully
requested to state what rates and detailed figures they
are willing to recognize in the above formula, the re-
sults of that forimula based n today's costs for both
Refiners and Importers, and to indicate when said formula
can be made fully effective to the Industry.
SECURITY
Security o tenure is ecually important ana necessary.
OF
TENURE。
Organizations built u? at great expense with the anproval
and acquiescence of Governments have just as much right to
claim protection for their position and to look upon their
interests as established rights as though a written contract
existed. The buruen of international trading would become
intolerable if Governments at will were to penalise one
class of capital in favour of another. It would destroy
the whole fabric of industrial security and trading.
Without security of tenure, no industry can prosper;
indeed it is abundantly clear that industry could not
exist at all under such circumstances. It is because
the two Companies fear that this and other fundamentals
are being withdrawn that they have respectfully requested
a statement from the Government as to its present and
future intentions.

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
EXHIBIT "A"
MEMO RELATING TO REFINING POSITION.
In support of the contention of the Importing
Companies that refining capacity outside Japan is shut
down by about thirty to forty percent or capacity,
the following estimate of the osition is given (based
on the capacity employed auring 1933).
PLACE.
EMPLOYED CAPACITY.
North America
60%
South America
74%
Europe
66%
Asia
85%
Africa
82%
Oceania
71%
World Total
63%

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
EXHIBIT B.
ANNUAL INCREASE GASOLINE TRADE.
JAPAN
KOREA
FORMOSA
TOTAL
Annual
Refiners'
Annual
Refiners'
Annual
Refiners' Refiners
Increase
Share
Increase
Share
Increase Share
Increase
12%
(46%)
20%
(22 12%)*
1936
138,000
63,480
14,130
3,180
66,660
1937
154,000
70,840
16,955
3,815
74,655
1938
173.000
79.580
20.550
4.580
84.160
465,000
213,900
51,435
11,575
225,475
The figures provided by the Mining Bureau showed:-
Refiners Jepan cuota
583,228 K1.
Refiners Capacity
800,000
Unemployed Capacity
216,772
Deduct trade in Chosen
24.335
192.437
* (22 1/& is Refiners' percentage for 12 months ending June 1934).
Therefore by the end of 1938 the Refiners would be short of
33,oo0 kilolitres capacity, and therefore in addition to con-
struction work that is being completed in 1955 would require
to start further construction in 1937.
N. B. Japan Trade
1935
1,150,000 Kilolitres
Korea Trade
1935
70,650
n
(estimated)**
Formosa
11
1935
29,000
n
11
**
** Subject to correction when the official figures promised for
Chosen and Taiwan are received.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
to despatch
1168 Je.8,1935 from the
Fir bassy at Tokyo?
C Q P Y.
MEMORANDUM OF CONVERSATION AT TOKYO CLUB
30th January, 1935
PRESENT: Messrs. Kurusu,Yoshino,Hogetsu and Sakai (Secretaries)
Rising Sun Petroleum Co. essrs. Godber & Malcolm.
Standerc-Vacuu Oil Corp. Messrs.Parker & Goold.
Mr. Yoshino said that nc ad read the draft memorandun
submitted by the Cor anies anc tool: it thot it wes intonded
to express the Companiest v.ishes in connect on wit! the Pe-
troleum Law. His Department could n:t accept our meaorandum
as a hole officially. He ha alr acy ciscussed with the
Companies the question of cuotas, but the e orandum seemed
to suggest th t th Com nies we : askin: for a guaranteed
percent:ge. Such a thing cou d pot be accepted as a principle.
He proposed, the fore, t g thr ugh the me orandum and deal
with the inor points ar sin in it page by page.
Page &. Thc wording of this page contained several re-
ferences to Japanese rcfiners. He had pointed out previously
that the division into Japanese refiners anc foreign import-
ers was an accidental one, and that the Law mad  no distinc-
tion between nationalities. He therefore thought that re-
ferences to nationality shoulc be deleted from the memorandum.
(a) The memorandum put the slack refining capacity at
190,000 kilolitres. He wished this to be corrected to 200,000.
(b) Instead of the word "Government" in line 1 he sug-
gested that the phrase "competent authorities directly con-
cerned" should be used.
In the last line but one of page 2 the word "relative"
was used if this implied 46% he thought the word should be
omitted. The Companies pointed out that the word "relative"
would

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
would apply to any percentage that was arrived at by agree-
ment, and therefore it was decided to leave the word un-
changed.
Page 3 (c): In line 2 the word "discriminate" was
used. Mr. Yoshino said th t the Government would not dis-
criminate between one nationality an another, but would
give preference to refiners. The Comoanies' representatives
pointed out that once a cuota was fixed this difficulty
would disappear.
(d) Mr. Yoshino said that he realized that this clause
would become clear once the cuota question was settled, but he
would point out that the word "ap ortioned" must not be taken
too literally. It would depend on what proved to be the most
economical method of supply how quotas would be ap ortioned
in future, and he therefore suggested that "in principle"
should be ad ed after the word "apportioned". The Companies'
representatives again pointed out that this would be settled
finally by the fixing of quotas. Mr. Yoshino then went on to
say that he quite agreed with what was written in the last
paragraph of page 3 regarding the use of a theoretical full
capacity, but that it was possible to decide what was a full
workable capacity as well as a full theoretical capacity,
and this figure was arrived at after making profit deductions
and therefore was nett.
Page 6: Quotas for Chosen and Taiwan: Mr. Yoshino said
that as a matter of principle the same standard must be adopt-
ed in these countries as in Japan. With regard to the allo-
cation of quotas in Chosen this year there seemed to have
been some mistake in calculation which ought to be adjusted,
but the Companies must remember that when officials made a
mistake

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
mistake it was difficult to get them to correct it immediate-
1y.
Quotas for Other Products: He wished to add in Line 3
after the word "that" the words "in principle" because at
the present moment in Government and other circles many dif-
ferent views were held as to how to encourage refineries
and use refining capacity. Mr. Godber pointed out that this
once more depended on how cuotas should be fixed, as what
the Companies feared was that some arbitrary method of allo-
cating quotas might be adopted. Mr. Yoshino replied that he
must take into consideration even remote possibilities, and
there might arise circumstances which would cause the im-
porting Companies themselves to wish modifications. Mr. Par-
ker said he considered the point a very fundamental one, but
suggested that the point be left until the (uestion of quotas
had been discussed.
Page 7:
Stock-keeping: Mr. Yoshino pointed out that the figures
filled in for the initial costs really applied to the invest-
ment that had to be made by April 1st, 19z6. As regards the
figures 7,100,000 to 7,600,000 he said that this was rather
too big according to his Department's calculations, and he
thought that the figure s ould be 7,O00,000, but he realized
the actual figure depended on the method of calculation
adopted, and also the interpretation of the words "continuous-
ly hold stock". If a lenient interpretation were made all
the amounts would be less.
Page 8: Mr. Yoshino said he did not understand the
sentence beginning "It is an accepted principle". Mr. Godber
explained that the meaning was that if a country had no pro-
dnction and did not give protection (which is uneconomical)
it

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
it did not pay to refine in that country compared with
refining at producing centres, and illustrated what he meant
by showing the losses in freight on fuel and quantities lost
in refining, etc. Mr. Parker drew attention also to the
difficulty of balancing the products prouced with the de-
mand, which also meant a loss of economy.
. Mr. Godber ex-
plained the difficulty in finding a crude that would give
just the products required, and illustrated the difficulty
of the whole question by taking the Anglo-Persian Company's
oil refinery in England as an example. This refinery had
been compelled to re-export fuel to the Mediterranean which
was obviously en uneconomical proceeding. Mr. Parker said
that in New England and New York there must have been several
hundreds of millions of dollars invested in refining cpacity
which was nov lying idle because refining ha been trans-
ferred to producing points in Texas and elsewhere. Mr. Yo-
shino said that the doctrine of the Com panies evidently meant
that refining in Japan would only be econo ical so far as
Japan had locally produced oil. However, looking at other
industries he found that Japan used to think it best to im-
port the pig iron necessary for manufacturing steel. This
position had now changed, and Japan imported iron ore and
found that she could compete with any other country except
perhaps India. Similar examples could be found in Germany.
Therefore he thought that the principles enunciated by the
Companies must be qualified in general although they might
happen to be true of the oil industry. Mr. Parker said that
in the case of oil it was very necessary not to lose sight
of the question of a surplus of by-products to which Mr.
Yoshino

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
Yoshino agreed. Mr. Godber pointed out that fuel was a
very important factor in the steel business. The ore must
in any case be transferred to the locality where the fucl
was produced or vice-versa, but in the case of oil the in-
dustry pro uced its own fuel. Mr. Parker asked Mr. Godber
whether he knew what v s the perc ntage of fuel used in
refining oil. Ar. Godber replied tht it varied with various
types of refining. Mr. Yosaino said that so far as oil was
concerned the Co paniest opinion might  c true, but in dc-
ciding a general po icy not only conomic but other consi-
derations must so etimes be taken into account. For example,
certain countries he. deciced to use liquif ction of oil.
These processes were not peying at the present time in view of
the abundant supply of oil, but experiments he to be continued,
and, similarly, in gener: 1 othc: f ctors besides economic
ores must be taken int consideration.
Page 9: Mr. Yoshino sai he understood that the sen-
tence beginning "They understand" in line 4 implied that any
application made by the Companies woul be to refine wit in
the limits of the quota given to them. He the: efore sugo t
t1 t after "refining" the vords "within their uotas" should
be added. In line 10 he did not quite understand the meaning
of the sentence beginning "There should therefore be". Mr.
Parker explained that the thought was that if thc refiners!
share of tctal consumption of gasoline wes 575,000 kilolitres
and the percentage of gasoline obtainable from crude was 50%,
then the licences for crude imports would be limited to
1,150,000. If licences were given for more then there would
be a surplus, and prices would decline. That was exactly
what

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
what had happened in the U.S.A. Mr. Yoshino said that if
that was the meaning of the sentence he quite agreed.
When the Government pas ed the refinerst business plan they
would see what crude was necessary an control it according-
ly. Mr. Parker pointe. out that the quantity rer ired de-
pended on the nature of te crude.
IP, f r cas ple, Mettle-
man-Hills crude were n t av ilable a muc greater guantity
of lower grade crude would be re uired to produce tie same
quantity of soline vi e  sec ent v puct or f -
products. Mr Ys ino saic t t thyt e t principle on
which his Departwent wor'te, ne th t was why they recuired
the country of ori in fo crude o'l to be filles in on the
ap licetion forus. r. P rker stic t t in cor sction vith
the quest on of proa ets t a ite inec fr crude he vo ld
like once tore to ' the oint t't it ight be advisable
as a question of policy to Icave a margin for the Import of
refined products.
Pages 10 and 11:
Price Fixing: Mr. Yoshino  ve his vi. s vhich Mr. Hogetsu
translated.
He seic thet on Pae 11 the Co panies asked what
r: tes would be inserte in the formula for both refiners and
importers. He stii th:t so far es the Government had not con-
sidered the rates for im orters of refined products. The
Japanese refiners represented 50% of the business, and the
authorities considered that if they took account of the costs
of these refiners it would for the time being be satisfactory,
but if in future it proved necessary to consider also the
costs of imported products they would make a study of the for-
mula which the Companies had presented. Mr. Kurusu said that
the authorities considered the refiners' price a fair price
for

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
for imports also, but if it seemed to them at a later date
that imports of refined products were cheaper than local
refined products they would wish to import more refined pro-
ducts, and in that case they woulc have to go closely into
the question of th cost f suc i rts.
They had not as
yet made a close study of suci costs.
Mr. Farker said that it was most im ortant tht such a
study should be made, and he wou'd be glad to now what rates
the Government were applying in the c se of loc l refineries.
Mr. Kurusu said that the Governmcent hac taken the cost
presented by all the refiners into consi cration.
Mr. Parker replied th t he thought in that c se the Com-
panies should be told what these rates were.
Mr. Yoshino seic there we e no standard rates as all the
refinerst returns had be n ifferent, an the Government had
therefore been compelled to make an arbitrary cecision, and
they did not accept either the ighest or the lowest rate. To
fix fair returns they must make another detailed study.
Mr. Parker said that was exactly what the Companies hoped
they would do, and he felt that so long as importers represent-
ed 50% of the trade the importers' costs should be taken into
consideration.
Mr. Godber said that it was fundamental that the Companies
should know what return they could get for their oil. Japan
had imposed tariffs on oil, and unless allowance was made for
such tariffs in fixing the price of oil it was possible to get
almost any result, but it must be borne in mind that if the
Japanese industry turned entirely to refining it meant that
the country lost all the revenue for present imports of products.
The Companies would like to know what basis would be taken for
fixing prices as no Company would import unless it knew what
costs would be taken and that it would get a reasonable return.
It

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.98)
- 8 -
It was too late after twelve months to be told that the
basis was X if X were below cost. If the Companies were
to be controlled they should be conirolled on a business
basis, and fundamentals could not be left in the air. He
felt that the Japanese refiners would be just as keen to
know the basis as the foreign Com anies.
Mr. Yoshino said that looking at the whole matter his
understanding was that the Conpanies appreciated the point
of viev of the authorities regarding the necessity of uti-
lizing the full refining capacity, and now wanted to know
what would be their share in the future natural increase.
The Coapanies might fear that as soon as th refining capa-
city was utilized to its full extent a new refinery might
be started and their share of the trade eaten into. That
was not the Government's idea. Whether or not it would be
cheaper to refine in Japan was open to doubt. After listen-
ing to what the Companies had said his opinion was that it
would be found more economical to import refined products,
and he would try to direct his colleagues along those lines
in administering the Law, but the Companies must remember
that the original idea when the Law was introduced was to en-
courage refining, and it would take some time to alter that
idea. The Companies appeared to want some written document,
but no Government could give a definite guarantee of fixed
percentage.
Mr. Kurusu said he would like to observe that the same
thing was happening in other countries against Japan, for
example, in cotton textiles in which Great Britain had placed
restrictions on Japanese trade. There were cases, too, in
U.S.A.

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
U.S.A., for example, matches, where Japanese trade had
been restricted. Mr. Kurusu added that he had just learned
(presumably by cable) that Congress in the U.S.A. were dis-
cussing further restrictive measures which if adopted would
adversely affect Japanese export trade. These countries
did not merely consi er past trade figures an a. it a tra-
der's right to a percentage base: on past figures. If Govern-
ments would only take such a basis all their troubles would
be finished in a day, but no Govornments would accept such a
basis.
Mr. Yoshino was trying to estab ish the idea that re-
fining was not as economical as importing, but it would take
some time to drive this idea home, and as the Companies want-
ed a guaranteed percentage Mr. Yoshino would find himself in
a very difficult position. To take th worst case, the Com-
panies could at least count on their past gallonage, but
they must undertake stock-holding obligations, and on that
basis they must consider their future. The Japanese Companies,
too, were complaining, but the Law was a fact, and the Japan-
ese Companies had agrced and only the two foreign Companies
had rofused to present their business plan. If the ouota
question were decided in favour of the for ign Companies it
would give the impression that those who respected the law
were at a disadvantage, and popular opinion on this point
could not be ignored. It was, therefore, very difficult
to give any guarantee. However, if the Companies would pre-
sent a note the authorities would take it into consideration
in administering the Law, but it would take time to establish
the ideas put forward by the Companies.
Mr. Godber said that if that was so the Companies would
be

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
- 10 -
be left in the air regarding their future, and also regarding
stock-keeping. They did not know the officials' views on
stock-keeping, and so long as the officials merely replied on
broad lines they learnt the spirit of the Law, but as regards
definite information were left where they started. He felt
it impossible as things were to give any reasonable explana-
tion to his colleagues or to sharcholders of the Company.
If the authorities could say definitely that the spirit was
not to reduce the importing companies' shar of thc trade,
and if they could make practical suggestions for overcoming
the difficulties connecte wit stock-keeping he would feel
that he was beginning to arrive at some of the objects for
which he had come.
Mr. Yoshino reverted to the question of price. He said
that actually the whole root of the trouble was the competi-
tion which had taken place with Matsukata. He suggested
that if the Companies could get together and suggest a fair
basis for prices their suggestion would be given considera-
tion. Mr. Yoshio went on to say that in connection with
stock-keeping obligations he understood that the position was
easier for refiners than for importers because refinery
tanks were more concentrated. This might be one reason, but
the fact remained that the Japanese refiners had submitted
their business plan while the importers had not, He quite
appreciated that the foreign Companies' Directors would say
that their Companies were not making money and, therefore,
why should they increase their investments? It was rather
a delicate matter, but he would make the suggestion that it
might be possible for them to take in Japanese partners and
allow these partners to invest the additional money required.
Similarly

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
- 11 -
Similarly as regards stock-keeping in a place like the Hok-
kaido, as tanks were expensive the Companies might apply to
keep packed stocks. They might also suggest that oil afloat
should be taken into consideration. In any case he would
appreciate it if the Companies wonld make some practical
suggestion.
Mr. Parker said th't he was not conversant vith the
circumstances that brought about the present price position,
but at that time the Companies werc not controlled, and when
left alone the Com anies knew that such periods of fierce com-
petition were brief. In Japan this had not been so because
the Government had controlled the prices at a low level for
the past two years, and had thereby involved the Companies
in huge losses. In addition to this the Companics were not
asked to invest millions of Yen, and it looked as if they would
still make no profits. With such a future in front of it no
industrial organization could comply with the Law.
Mr. Yoshino replied that if thc foreign Companies would
not present a business plan it looked as if refining in
Japan must be cheaper than importing. This made it difficult
for the foreign Companies, but if the position were reversed
the Japanese Companies would be in an equally bad position,
and therefore it looked as if one or the other must suffer.
The Government did not wish to kill the industry, and there-
fore would welcome practical suggestions as it looked as if
there might be some serious flaw in the Law.
Mr. Parker said that so far as he knew the Japanese Com-
panies had not yet complied with the stock-holding regulations
and that it was going to cost them a great deal if they did.
offhand

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.99)
- 12-
Offhand he would say that he felt that it would cost the
refiners more to carry stocks than it would the importers
although Mr. Yoshino seemed to hold the opposite opinion.
Mr. Yoshino seid that if that was so it made his argu-
ment somewhat stronger a to people who had to bear the
heavy burden had conplied while those whose burden was light-
er had not.
Mr. Godber pointed out that the Conference vas not dis-
cussing who could stan the biggest enalty but whether the
Government's proposal was sound at all.
Mr. Kurusu said that he had aske Mr. Yoshino what was
the reason why the Japanese Companies ha presented their
plans. Were they expecting a subsidy?
Mr. Yoshino had replied in the negative, and said that
he expected the Japanese Companies would raise the question
of a price advamce.
Mr. Parker said that the Japanese Companies no doubt
expected that their quotas would be increased, and therefore
figured that the foreign companies would gradually be forced
out.
Mr. Yoshino said that might be their opinion but it was
incorrect. Once the idle refining capacity were filled he
thought the increased consumption should be distributed 50/50
as he had suggested previously. The Japanese refiners were
entirely wrong if they thought they could absorb the whole
market.
Mr. Godber and Mr. Parker said that was just the assurance
the Companies wanted.
(Messrs. Yoshino, Kurusu and Sakai discussed the question
of

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
- 13 -
of whether the Japanese Companies were making a profit at
43-1/2 sen. Mr. Sakai thought they were making a profit at
that figure, and said that although the Japanese Companies
expected a price advance they had no guarantee that they
would get it.)
Mr. Yoshino suggested that the officiels prepare a
draft answer to the Companies' menoran un, and ciscuss it at
the next meeting.
Mr. Parker asked what would happen to Matsukata's quota
if he gave up business?
Mr. Yoshino replied that it must be distributed on a
fair basis.
Mr. Godber said that Mr. Matsukata had been given a
quota because Japan wanted Russian oil. If Russian oil no
longer came to Japan, as he thought likely, then the quota
given to Russian oil should go t) those who were compelled
to make room for it.
Mr. Yoshino said that the officials would prepare their
draft, and Mr. Godber asked if the Companies could seo it
before the next meeting to consider it.
Mr. Yoshino a reed, and said that he would leave it to
the Companies to propose a date for the next meeting, after
they had seen the draft letter.
Mr. Parker said that he had one suggestion to make re-
garding stock-keeping, and that was that the date should be
postponed. The economic demand would make more tankage neces-
sary so that the position recuired by the authorities could
be arrived at gradually and spread over several years, but
to insist on huge stocks at once was prohibitive.
Mr. Yoshino said Mr. Parker's suggestion might be one
solution, but it was a difficult one because the Japanese
Companies

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
- 14 -
mpanies had already presented their business plans and made
arrangements for erecting tanks. Moreover, other Departments
than his own were concerned, and these Departments would be
inclined to say that if the Japanese Companies had agreed
there was no reason why the foreign Co panies should not
do so also.
Mr. Parker emphasized that he had not yet any definite
information to show that the Japanese Companies had taken
any active stops to comply with the regulat:ons, and he felt
tht they could not oossibly affore to com ly.
Mr. Yoshino said that his information was to the effect
that the Japanese Companies had found the necessary funds -
Ogura and Mitsubishi fro their own resources, and the other
Companies fron the Banks, but the Banks ha refused to ad-
vance money until the prices ha been raised by -1/& sen.
There must be some calculation on the part of the Banks to
arrive at this figure of 3-1/2 sen.
Mr. Parker said he was sure that the Japanese Companies
had not yet carried their plans into effect. Could an alter-
ation not be made and applied to all Companies alike? It
would simply mean that the Japanese Co panies would not pro-
ceed with their plans. Mr. Godber ad ed thaf no one would
be better pleased than the Banks.
Mr. Goold said that Mr. Hashimoto had stated that the
burden was too heavy for the Japanese Companies, and he felt
that the Japanese Companies were merely complying under com-
pulsion.
Mr. Godber said that the industry had existed for the
last thirty years without such enormous stocks and no country
in the world was demanding stocks of the size called for in
the

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
- 15 -
the new Law.
Mr. Goold said he had one further question to ask. In
Mr. Yoshino's comments on the memorandum he had corrected
the figure of idle cap city to 200,000 kilolitres. Supposing
next year a new Japanese Company  ished to uild a refinery
what would be the attitude of t authorities?
Mr. Kurusu said that no permission would be given.
Mr. Goold asked whether this meant that no permissions
at all would be given in future.
Mr. Yoshino replied that so long as there was idle re-
fining capacity ne acitions or extens ons would be allowed.
Once the slack c pacity was filled up th: question of exten-
sions becane the economic one whether it was cheaper to re-
fine in Japan or im ort refined projucts. There might, of
course, be cheaper temporary su plies of crude, and utiliz-
ing these someone might wish to begin refining, but the
Government would not conteinplate giving permission on such
a temporary basis.
Mr. Goold asked whether he was right in understanding
that until the 200,000 kilolitres slack capacity had been
filled up no permits would be given, but after that it would
depend on other circumstances. Mr. Yoshino said it depended
on what was economical. If refining was economical refining
would increase: if importing, importing would increase.
Therefore the refiners must have exactly the same anxiety
as the importing Companies regarding their position in the
future.
Mr. Goold asked what Mr. Yoshino meant by economical.
Did he mean able to quote cheapest prices to consumers?
Mr. Kurusu

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
-16-
Mr. Kurusu said that he must qualify such a definition.
There were many other points that must be taken into consi-
deration.
Mr. Goold said that economical must mean cheapest to
consumers.
Mr. Godber asked how Mr. Yoshino's proposal for sharing
trade 50/50 applied.
Mr. Malcolm asked whether Mr. Yoshino would put his
scheme in writing, but ir. Yoshino efinitely r fused. He
said th t a 50/50 sug estion w: s a private opinion of his
own.
Mr. Goold asked to what did 50/50 apply, and Mr. Yoshino
replied that it applied to the division of natural increase.
Mr. Godber then said it came back to his original ques-
tion of how long they would take to fill up the iile refin-
ing capacity.
Mr. Sakai said that he estimated two or threc years.
Mr. Godber said that it must be clear to Mr. Yoshino
where we were drifting. The officials would give no guaran-
tee: they g ve personal opinions, but coul not speak for
othcr Departments. Therefore the Conpanies were left in
complete uncertainty.
Mr. Goold said that before the meeting ended he had one
further question to ask. Had the authorities had any reply
regarding the position in Formosa and Korea?
Mr. Yoshino said he understood that larger quotas had
been given to the Japanese Companies who got production from
natural gas. There had been many new applications for li-
cences in Formosa, but they had all been turned down.
Mr. Goold

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.98)
- 17 -
Mr. Goold asked whether he must understand that there
would be no correction in the quotas this year.
Mr. Yoshino replied that he did not think it would be
possible to have corrections made.
Mr. Goold asked whether this applied also to Chosen.
Mr. Kurusu said that in Chosen a mistake had been made,
that was why the answer from Korea had beer delayed. The
Shokosho would suggest adjustment, and very soon when the
Chief of the Section of Commerce nna Industry would be in
Tokyo the matter would be taken up with him.
Mr. Parker said that he would sug est again that the
Law should not be applied to Taiwan. It seemed to him that
they were forcing the local producers to bring oil out of
the earth and store it in tan's, but it was much better under-
ground.
Mr. Godber said that if im orting Companies had to build
tanks and then it was found that the loccl prouuction would
take care of loo% of tne trade he wondered what would happen
to the Companies' tanks.

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
to aespalch
88.193m the
E.... bassy at Tokyo.
Reply of the Department of Commerce and
Industry to the Memorandum submitted by
Foreign Oil Compunies concerning the
Petroleum Industry Law.
1. While the Memorandum submitted by the foreign oil
companies seems to cover most of the item: discussed at our
meeting, it appears to this Department that in some part
it takes for granted such matters as the guarantee of trade
by percentage bout which  com lete gr ement of views
has not yet been attained. Therefore it is with regret
that this Department cannot accept the emorandum as it
1s.
2. The Department hopes that it is fully understoo by the
two foreign companies concerned that the object of the Petro-
leum Industry Law is not to deprive then of their vested
interests. It is true that the Law places certain new
burdens on the companies such as the maintenance of oil
stock, but, at the same time, it respects to the fullest
possible extent the established position of the companies
in the petroleum trade. The Department, therefore, in
compliance with the above principle, intends to exercise
the utmost fairness in cllotting the cuota to the com-
panies. On the other hand, our legislators desired, as is
natural in an oil consuming country like Japan, to en-
courage the refining in this country, and accordingly, so
long as no serious conomic dificulties intervene, it was
their intention to give a more favorable quota to the local
refiners as compared with the importer in the allocation
of any increase of oil consumption. The Department, however,
intends

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
intends to conduct a careful c mparative study between the
advantage of encouraging the oil rufining in Jupan und that
of importing refined products from abroad, taking into
consideration the present world market condition as well :s
the situation now prevailing in J pan. There should be no
cause for a prehension on the art of i port rs, if the re-
sult of the said study indicates that it is more advantageous,
as the Memorandum states, t k   certain bal nce betleen
importation ana local rufining, by the mai: tenince of i-
portation of a cert in cmount of refined oil from abroad.
But eve: if the r sult of the study is to the contrary, there
will be a way left for the iaporters to protect their interests
by starting the refining business in Jupan. In suc : cuse,
the Department is ready t, grant the neces ary  rmits as
has already been co municated through the Denartment of Foreign
Affairs.
As repeatedly ex lained, as lon, as there exists slack
capacity in local refin ri s, special consideration in favor
of them will have to be made in the allotment of the cuota
until such cap&city is fully utilized, but thereafter the
Department will not make any unfair treatment arbitrarily
as between the refiner and i porter. Of this point, the
interested parties should be rest assured, in view of many
other precedents which exist in Japen in the administration
of similar cases.
3. As to the legal obligation of stock-holding, it is
inevitable that the said requirement will entail an increase
in

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
in expenditure, but this is a problem which both the
importer and refiner are equally confronted with and, since
the local refiners are now und rtaking the construction
of more tanks in complience with the Law, the Department
cannot but hope that the two foreign oil co p:nies will :lso
prepare, as soon as os: ible, a concrete plan for th legal
storage.
In this connection, the Department thinks that the
provision of subsicies or the postponement of a) lication of
these regulations cin hardly be c ntem lated. But it is
the intention of the Department that, in the interpretation
as well as ap lication of the regulations concerning the
legal stock-holding, lenient consideration vithin the scope
of the said regulations, will be accorded in actual cases,
in order that the require ents of the Law may be carried out
satisfactorily with the least possible :acrifice to the
business of the i  orter.
4. As has already been explained the Petroleum Indusiry
Law does not aim at the establishment of the system of rice-
fixing by the government. But a b : y fall in price on
account of severe competitions amon the oil companies in
the past and their subsecuent attempt to raise the price
sudcenly gave rise to a social problem involving a multitude
of consumers. Under the abnormal circumstance thus brought
about which does not allow the raisin of price, however
reasonable, to be sudden and sharo, the Government is at
present forced into a position to interfere in the decision
of the prices. But it is the earnest desire of this Department
that the time will soon come hen prices will naturally adjust
itself

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
itself in accordance with the condition of the oil market.
The Department recognizes that in case the Government has to
resort to its authority, provided in Article 7 of the Petro-
leum Industry Lav concerning th adjustment of prices, it is
necessary to calculte the cost of oil nd to devise a certain
formula as the basis of the s id calculation. The Depariment,
however, is of the opinion that the basic figures or percentages
to be used in such a formula should be determined from time
to time vhen such cases prcsent th ms Ives.
This department holds the view that, by raising the
price of gasoline by 3.5 sen per gallon, as recuested by the
refiners, the local refiners t present are able to carry on
their undertaking at a profit if their business is reasonably
oper:ted. Should the price of the imported gsoline be higher
than this, the Department expect the importers to adjust
their price accordingly. If reverse is the case, it would be
unnecessary for the Governnent to take into consideretion
the price of the imported gasoline. This is the reason why
this Department did not, for the time being, take into account
the price of the imported gasoline. In future, however, the
Department intends to calculate, for reference in finding
a reasonable price, the price of the imported oil according
to a certain formula.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
TAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
ROOM 1411
le
26 BR0ADWAY
1-1935
NEW YORK
S1A1F
DEPA
February 28, 1935.
Japenese Control Law
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
vivision of Far Esstern Affairs,
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
8
Deer Dr. Hornbeck:
9
4.6363/179
I know that you will be interested in the
substance of messages I have received in rerpect to the ne-
gotiations between our representstives na Jepanese officials.
The Japenese Ministry of Commerce will issue the following
statement to the Japanese press today:
"Our new oil law having causeduneasin ss on the
pert of Standerd-Vacuum Oil Co. ind the Rising Sun as
6
to the future of their business operations in Japen
Messrs. Parker and Walden representing the former and
Godber representing Asiatic Pet. Co. Ltd. (parent concern
of latter) came to this country for the purpose of meeting
government authorities concerned and of holding private
talks regaruing the object of the legislation and the
operetions of the law. Altogether 1? meetings have been
held since January 9th petween above representatives and
Yoshino Yudse Minister of Commerce and Kurusu Director of
the Bureau of Commerclal Affairs of +he Foreign Office .
The Japanese authorities were unable to give definite
answers but they took pains to explain spirit underlying
the legislation and dwelt particularly on the point foreign
industry would be subjected to no unfair treatment. The
foreign representatives were not yet satisfied with all the
explanations given by the authorities. Conversations were
adjourned on the understanding that they will be resumed
in April when the representatives revisit this country
end that the Ja anese Government will in the meantime
F
deliberace fur her on the subject and be prepered to ex-
plain its views more concretely."
G
I am advised that no progress was being made
FTLED
with the officials and they had even retreated from a position
that they had outlined early in February, notwithstanding
that part of that position had already been committed to writing
and agreed to by them. The officials subsequently claimed that

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck.
February 28, 1935.
they had no authority to bind themselves and that they would
need a week or two to ascertain the views of the responsible
officials. There appears to be some opinion thet the oflicials
would be unwilling to even attempt to modify some of the
regulations under the law during the present sitting of the
Japanese Diet.
In view of these circumstences our representa-
tives are leaving Jepan for Hong Kong and the Philip ine Islands
on the SS "PRESIDENT MC KINLEY" which is scheduled to ssil on
March 2nd, and they propose to return to Japan some time early
in April after they have rec-ived word thet the officials with
whom they ere conducting the negotiations are empowered to make
some commitment.
Yours sincerely,
HD/ED

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.95)
C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Couurn 2
March 4, 1935.
EHD.
60..2.
Reference Tokyo's telegram No. 44 of
Maroh 2, 12 p.m., in regard to the oil
situation in Japan, --
As the Department has already re-
coived from the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company (see Mr. Dundas' letter of
February 28, enclosure /179) a statement
in regard to (a) the temporary discontinu-
ance of conversations between the special
representatives of the oil interests and
Japanese officials and (b) tentative
plans for the future, I think we may
safely assume that the company's New York
office is fully aware of all developments
of importance and that Tokyo's telegram
under reference would add little if any-
thing to the company's knowledge of the
situation. For this reason, and because
it would appear preferable that the company
form its own estimate of the situation, I
suggest that we do not inform Mr. Dundas
of the receipt by the Department of Tokyo's
telegram of March 2, 12 p.m.
Do you concer
remr
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
7E
7
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
OFFICE OF ECONOMIC AOVISER
FS
This totegram must be
Tokyo
FROM
closely paraphrased be-
DERANTMENT OF STRIE
fore being communicated
Dated March2
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 10:36 a.m.
Secretary of State,
PAR LASTERA AFFAIRS
Washington.
Departmout of State
44, March 2, 12, p.m.
yile
17
rmbassy's 28, February 8, 6 p.m.
594.6363
894.6363/1
merican il interests in Japen.
One. The special reprusert tives of the British
and american cil nterests re s ilin today for Manila
and are plannine to return o Japan about april one.
Two. The special r rosentatives feel that the
30
present status of the conversations is discouraping
but not yet hopeless. The Japanese officials enc d
in the conversations had agreed crally to various
desiderata of the foreign oil interests but when the
agreed points were embodied by the foreign oil interests
in a memorandum the officials retreated from their posi-
tion, suggested various emasculating alterations in the
memorandum and stated that they had no authority to bind
the Government and would need time to ascertain the
views of other departments concerned. They therefore
FILED
suggested that the conversations he suspended until
after

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
FS
2-No. 44, March 2, 12 p.m. from Tokyo
after the Diet session, due to close March 22. The
special representatives agreed to this procedure, be-
lieving also that the officials would thereby have an
opportunity to endeavor to modify the stock keeping
provisions of the law without appearing to be acting
under foreign pressure.
Three.
The foreign oil interests have consist-
ently taken a strong stand end have refused to modify
their views in any essential p rticular but they feel
that they will not succeed in forcing any alterations
in the law unless they give the Japanese Government
definitely to understand that the foreign oil compan-
ies will have to withdraw from Japan should no modi-
fications be made. The special representatives have
not yet decided to make this announcement and cannot
reach a decision until they have ascertained upon their
return to Japan to what extent the Japanese views can
be reconciled with theirs.
Four. In the course of a conversation with the
Minister for Foreign Affairs this monning I said to
him informally that the special representatives of the
foreign oil interests hoped that during their absence
some concrete solution of their difficulties might be
found so that
they could visualize their future
business

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.98)
FS
3-No. 44, March 2. from Tokyo
business in Japan with confidence and I expressed the
hope that the Minister would use his ood offices
with his colleagues in the Cabinet to that end.
Hirota replied that the subject of cil is an acute
question in the Diet and he therefore felt that the
matter should be left in abeyance until after adjourn-
ment when he helieved that some satisfactory agree-
ment could be reached. He added significantly:
"You know we are absolutely dependent on American
o11".
Five. My British colleague proposes to mention
the subject similarly to the Foreign Office next week.
GREW

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 12, 1935
enstore no 1
Tokyo's No. 1182 of February 21, 1935,
ings up to date developments in connection
th the oil situation in Japan. It will be
oalled that discussions with Japanese
ficials were virtually suspended until
ne conclusion of the present session of
ne Diet, although conversations in a some-
lat desultory manner have continued. "It
 now considered improbable that the
apanese officials are contemplating any
reat concessions from their original plans".
You will wish to read carefully the
o memoranda of conversation, one between
ville and officers of the Socony-Vacuum
ompany, in regard to both the "Manchukuo"
nd Japanese oil situations, and the other
tween Sansom, of the British Embassy, and
Lokover, and Kurusu, of the Japanese
oreign Office.
During the latter conversation Kurusu
n Japanese capital they would avoid many
 the difficulties which they are now
ncountering in Japan. Both Dickover and
ansom took issue, Dickover pointing out
hat in his experience the plan "did not
sually work successfully", and he mentioned
he case of the General Electric as an
example.

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
example. In that connection, Mr. John R.
Geary, who has been the principal repre-
sentative in Japan of the General Electric
for 25 or 30 years, yesterday expressed to
me at considerable length the gratification
of the company and his own gratification
(being a shareholder) over the satisfactory
and profitable arrangements that had been
made with their Japanese associates.
Mr. Geary also stated that the Truscon
Steel Company, which has operated a factory
in Japan for many years, and in which he is
interested as a shareholder, has profited
by forming a merger with Japanese interests.
The merit or demerit of association by
foreign interests operating in Japan with
Japanese interests should be determined, it
seems to me, from the point of view of
whether or not such association would be
profitable to foreign interests concerned
and not, as Dickover apparently suggests,
by the question of control. The foreign
oil interests are operating in Japan as
distributors and not as manufacturers, and
it is obvious that for them the question of
being associated with Japanese involves
considerations that do not apply in the
case of Americans and other foreigners
operating factories in Japan. However, the
implication of Dickover's statement, that
American

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
American interests in Japan usually lose
by association with Japanese interests,
is not supported by the experiences of
American business men of the calibre of
Mr. Geary.
ED/DLY
894.6363/181

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.91)
X
EMBASSY OF THE
(nem)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, February 21, 1935.
No. 1182.
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
ote
894.6363
HECO
35
10e07
894.6365/181
No
11
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to  y despatch No. 1168,
dated February 3, leo5, in regara to th difficulties
being experienced by American and oth r forein oil interests
in Janan unuer the new etroleum Inductry Law nd in Pegrd
to the c nversations no: being c nuucted between o ficials of
the Japanese Government and special reoresentatives of the
American and British-Dutch oil interests, and to r ort that,
although the conversations huve continued steadily, no
definite progress aopears to have been made toward a satis-
factory agreenent anc, in consecuence, the foreign oil
interests
FILED
F
G

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.97)
interests are becoming decidedly pessimistic as regards the
outcome of the negotiutions.
Progress of the Conversations.
As re orteu in my denoaten no. 1lse, th foreign o1l
inturests, t r thorou hly ciccusoin v ri un oh ses of the
roblem ith the Japtmese tutuoriti s, urew up a memorandum
containing their interpretation of the results of the con-
versutions une their d sires in re re t the op ration of
the Petroleum Inuustry . A most unsati: f cto y ro ly to
this memorandum its cr: ited nd sub itt te the foreign oil
interests by the Vice minist r lor Co ierce nd In ustry.
The conversations Vore therefore resumed on February 7. On
February 14 the foreign oil int rests guin deliv red a draft
inemoranoum, contuining their id rstoneing of whet had been
said by the Junanese or ricicls to date and their desiderata
in rog rd to assurances for future business, the or blem
of stock-keenin, cuotas nd rice-fixing. The conversa-
tions have si e b eu continuec on the basis of this r vised
memorandum, but the Japanese attitude has become somewhat
stiff, ana it is nov consiuered improbable that the Japanese
officials re c ntem lating uny gr at concessions from their
original plans. The special representatives of the foreign
oil interests h:ve therefore become somewhat pessimistic
and arenot inclined to continue the conversations indefinitely.
What course of action they will adopt in case they decide to
break off the conversations, however, has not yet been fixed,
but it is probable that a decision will be reached within
a few days.
Miscellaneous.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.96)
- 3 -
Miscellaneous.
1!
There is enclosed a copy of a momorandum of a conver-
sation between r. Neville, of the Embassy, and Messrs
Parker and Goold, of the Standard-V: cuum Oil Connany, on
February 14, 1.. 5, which c. l ins some of the difficulties
facing the oil interests in th ir negoti: tions with the
Japanese liciuls.
2!
There is :lso enclos a : cooy of : memor:noum of a
conversation between ar. S. urusu, the Chier of the Bureu
of Commerciel Af irs of the Forcign o ice, r. Fansom, the
Com ercial Coun:ellor of the British abassy, una mr. Dick-
over, of this Lmbassy, on February 1, Lusb, in vich r.
Kurusu aavocatea the t king in of Jo nese c: ital by the
oreign oil companie : : re edy for their present troubles,
or failing this, to retain Jan: ese of very high calibre as
advisers, in ora r to avoid similur dirficulties in the
future. These propositions heve not yet been put before
the specicl representatives of t e foreign oil companies
but heir reactions to the propositi ns will be conveyed to
the Department vhen received.
Respectfully ours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures: Memorandum of Conversation of February 14.
11
11
11
11
11
19.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.89)
Leelcsure No
to despatch
No//20721,19th
Fo bassy at Tokyo!
Conversation.
February 1, 1935.
Mr. Neville, r. Furker nd r. Goold.
Oil Conversttions.
I met r. 'arke
 G 1t the Too Club
r they ha bee lkin
.r.Yonot 1rt-
ent of Comerce tne Inou try, P. urusu of the Forein
Office ano othr Ji  iei. Is.. Go b r tnd Mr.
halcol of te fhell inter rte nad b en present.
Mr. Parker tnd r. Goold told me tnat they ad been
approached by r. Murus to t lk  ith P. phino of the
" anchuluo" Fin nce Dep: rt it in  rd  th of
etroleum to thenc uri Tr
I s y obj eti  to t ir  ro. I: i i t I o ld
see no obj etion to tici.  eti r. io. hino, speci: lly
as they stid they n rely ntone t te t t  lad
to say. Thy ut. thi ite  the Fo ci n or ice
hac invited the to l pcheon tomoro. ne that P. Hos ino
would be tere. Thy the s ie th t the tnchurian onopoly
had m de the tn in irect  r to neln oil to the ohopely,
tne that they sre at : Loer ho. to woe ud. They s it that
their co petitorr re selli  oi to the ohopoly he that
as fer te they coule st they stoor to in mothin by re-
fusing, speciclly s the onopoly a etreo villin to sive
them  sort of uarentee us to future refined oil business
provided they were illin to sell some crude to the re-
finery t D: iren. I stid thet this was a subject I could
not tavise them on. They saic that they could see no r. ason
for not selling when comp:nies on the Pacific coast were
shipping

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.91)
一-
shipping oil to manchuri: without criticism from the Ameri-
cn Governm nt. They  ic t t they cid not ish to make
any contracts thet woulc be embarrcssin: to the Goverument,
but they could not see hy they shoulc be expect d to refuse
businers hich tuey to e e ms ce ting
vit no objectie  on  ton. I t th t I could
not und rtake to  vire them. They s i thtt unless the
export of crude coult be controllo at home, the culo be
come to tniui et ti iout
here. I seid tr t t
 ibiiit oort cntrol t home
was noti rinont; tha thtt they n it,   bee
fully iufor ae by r. To le o hie e averm tions t vash-
inton.
Ther t'an tole me thet in t r e ar reetne this
norning they had sub itt on to the J se
or icials in whic th y h c bociee t sir nd ret ing
of what hid ben cover a n ti ir coaverer tion u) to dite,
und hat ut don h: t they ished in the y o: ssurances
for future businesr, stock holc ing vacuiran nts, uotas
tnd rice fixin,  leinin th for ul: vhict they thought
fair in arriving at the rice for the J: nese murket. They
wished to know what I t ou ht could be d me to me ke ony
reply they received official. I s: ic th t the nost they
could expect, in ay judgment, would be a cocument from Ir.
Yoshino in his capacity as Vice minister. I said that I
did not believe that they coula expect the Japanese Covern-
ment to commit itself for : future period of time. They
then asked me whether the filing of the reply with the
Embassy would make it binding. I said I uid not think so
unless

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.96)
-3 -
unless the Japanese consented t it with that under-
standing, in which c se they should ask the Japanese to
notify us.
I then :skeu the how much progress they thourht they
heo mt de. They s: ic t t they coulo not tell  ctl until
they hea n tnswer t the me mortneum vhich t y h eeo in
touy. I  kee we he nexttin ole be. They s id
Saturaay (February 1o). The s: id th t they ere freid
that the discussion: hich  oula be resumed t rte the close
of the Diet might have to be ab initio, vithout refer nce to
the progress vhich heu already been mede. I suiu that it
seeneu to me like borrowing troutle to look t the m ttar
in that light. I s ia that Yoshino anu Kurusu woula have to
present their conclusions to their colle u s in other
Departments no that there oulo h ve to be com lete agree-
ment before the reg lations could be made a Cabinet matter
anda new Imperial Orainance or Departmental ra ul:tion
issued; Yoshino and Kurusu could not co mit their col-
leagues beforehand. They scid that they understood that;
what they wanted Was some assur nce that Yoshino tnd Kurusu
would accept the memorenaum anu ork for its c m lete ac-
ceptance. I said that I did not bclieve they could expect
such an unaertaking. The most they could expect vould be
that Yoshino und Kurusu woulu present the matter and then do
the best they could.
They then said that under present conditions they did
not see how the companies (foreign importing) could make any
profit. I said that it was a matter for them to decide. If
they were losing on each unit of oil, I did not understand
what

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.96)
- 4 -
what they could do but get out. They then said that they
had under advisement, in case they could get no satisfactory
understanding with the authorities, notifying the Japanese
Government of their intention not to sell below a certain
figure, or if that roulu not b. )or itt u, to close their
business in Japan and retire from aictribution here. I said
I supposd this project was a lest r sort, na that they
would be orpared to carry out their expressed intention;
in other vorus, it ust not b  thr :t or a bluff. They
said that of course, if they r. to make ny such oroposition,
they would carry it out.
They then asked me to tulk the me tter over ith Sunsom
Who had invitea the shell peo le to lunch. I s: ia that I
should (ertainly do so, peneing Lickover's reovery, as we
are always in touch with the british Labecsy. Finally,
they askea me wheth r ve could ke p the issue alive during
their absence. I suiu that  coula do that by sking the
Foreign Office, through urusu or some one else, how the
matter was shaping up; that we should do our b'st to prevent
its uying.
E.L. N.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.93)
Enciosure No to despatch
No//82elu/2/193romthe
Fmbassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM
February 20, 1955.
Conversation:
: r. Kurusu, of the Foreign Office.
Mir. S-nsom, uf the British mbarsy.
r. Dickover.
P. anco nu I et P. uracu t the Tohyo Club
yesterday (Fab ury I,5) by  ointment, to make oral
representations in r  ro to the u tion of 'light oil".
After discussin t t u stion, r. Hurusu st io thtt he
nte t t: l t nbot th J n ii sitution.
He paid tihet in hi. o ni n th orein oil companies
in Jupan vere experi nein di: Meulties lurroly beeruse of
two reasone, thich he coule not discuss in the meetings
betweeu th: airectors of the oil com p:ni s nd the J: pa-
nese offieilerbr
stood by the oth r J  use.   ic t t even the offi-
ci:ls f the Lux rt  t of Co rce nd Iadustry ni ht
not unc rst nd. o het t to  n. om ne yeelf.
One of the r asons or the di icultics of th: forei n oil.
comptnies, he s: id, wi s the  viliar on: of the lun uage
cifriculty. Even  ho h:a b n in J yn :e lon as
Goole na  lcolm c. 1 not  k J: punse flu ntly. There-
Tore they e ula not tssoci.t fre ly ith the Japn se
officitls no business men, c ule not 1 rn  bout current
problems in J pun :nd could not make their on points
of vie. nd desir s known. The other re non was that
the foreign oil compunies l ckec the entrée into J: pa-
nese officialdom. They had their offices in Yokohama,
away from the cupital, und the ofices vere in charge
of men who  ere s les mtnegers, without real authority
to decide the policies of the companies. The companies
had

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.93)
-2 -
had no one, s n example, who coul xpect to be
receiveo ct my time by the inister for Commerce and
Industry. It was ci Mic lt for them, therefore, t k ep
in touch itheI  velo munts. s r oy, r.
aurusu  id, he moule  est trt th otin oil
c  nies t ke in soie s a ese e ital.
r. aasom rs uly vetoec t is sug stion. He
stit thet the  pi e  sritis ireit thi: poiicy
in all countries in hie it hae been tritt heo been
unhaopy. Almost inevit: bly t er: cume  conrlict of ideas,
and one side or the other heo to buy the oth r out - usue lly
the British side bought out the n tive . ice t : gre:t
cost . I s it that in y  ri ne  lso the lan cid
not usu: lly work sue sruily.  rule, n J n,
it endec ith the Jenanese side ontt ning control of the
joint firm und ruduc lly f eomin the am ric: n side put of
the business. I entioned Cenerel l ctric as in example.
Mr. Kurusu s i thct if operation unc r joint cavital
was not pr: ctical, he would sug st thet the for io oil
companies en loy Japanese of very high c libre as advisers.
The advisers choule be men or ni h soci:1 nd business
tundin, who hia htt political exn rience :na who had the
entrée into Japanese official circles. They shonld live
in the capital end keep in constant touch with current
developments. They shoulå preferably be members of the House of
Peers - men like Viscount Tadashiro Inouye, Mr. Masujima,
the noted lawyer, or Ryozo Asano. The only trouble  ith
such men was that they already had large businesses of their
own to handle.
vr.

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
Mr. Sansom entirely agreed with Mr. Kurusu. He
said that he had been aivocating the policy of engaging
Japanese of high calibre as advisers to foreign firms in
Japan for some years past. He stic that he had been in-
strumental in hving the Rising Sun Petroleum Company
retain Admiral (retired) Funakoshi as adviser some years
before - an arrangement : hich worked excell ntly until
for some reason which he vid not re emb:r it had been ter-
minated. He thou ht that r tired diplonatic officers,
such as Hanihara (before his cesth) or mr. Debuchi might
do very well as aavisers, as they uneerstood both the
Jupanese tnd the foreign points of view. r. Kurusu
said that he a c not tink th:t ex-ciplon te would be
entirely cuitable, ts the J panese wuld think that they
could not und rstand the Ji otunese point of view, h ving
been abroad su uch, tnu t ereos t  oulo h ve little
intluince. r. Lickover suc: est a tt Matsumpto Joji,
for lerly a Vice dui:t r of the Deprt ent of  riculture
tnd Co ree, u e ber  the house of Pe rs nd n in-
fluentic1 ly r, i t be it le. r. Kurusu . reed.
The c nversation th u turn d to other m: tters.
E. F. D.

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363
SEE
890g.6363 T 84/581
letter
FOR
FROM
Iraq
Knabenshue
) DATED
Jan.21, 1935
82
TO
NAME
1-1127
REGARDING:
Cil situation in Jupan.
Conversation with Lord Stanhope concerning -.Statement that the
British and American Governments were cooperating closely in the
matter and that the only way of bringing Jipan into line
would be to cut off the supply of oil and capital.
2
2
W1

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.92)
E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, March 8, 1935.
No. 1193
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
ale
894.6363
FAH FASTERN AFFAIRS
MAR 25 1935
PM ECO
TC
Department or State
C
0ey
894.6363/183
Grade
For
CONPIDENTIAL
 e
of 5-2 foa Ugncid 1. Stmon, Siate Dept
B
Date 3///6
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
1181
No. 1182, dated February 21, 1935, and to previous corres-
pondence in regard to the difficulties being experienced
by American and British-Dutch oil interests in Japan under
the new Petroleum Industry Law, and to report the follow-
ing developments in the situation.
FLLED
Conversations.
As reported in my despatch No. 1l82, the special re-
presentatives of the foreign oil interests proposed a draft
F
memorandum
/C

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
memorandum embodying their interpretation of the results
of the conversations and their desiderata in regard to
the Government's operation of the Petroleum Industry Law.
This draft memorandum was delivered to the Japanese offi-
cials on February 14, and was studied by them for some time
before any comments were nade thereon. On February 25, Mr.
Kurusu asked Mr. Neville of this Embassy and Mr. Sansom of
the British Embassy to meet him at the Tokyo Club to discuss
the matter. A copy of the memorandum of their conversation
1/
is enclosed. From this it will be noted that Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, could not ac-
cept the preamble, which read as follows:
"This memorandum covers questions relating
to the Petroleum Law which have been discussed
between Mr. Yoshino and the two companies, and
it is understood that Mr. Yoshino agrees with
the conclusions reached and will use his best
efforts to secure the agreement of the Minister
of Commerce and all other Departments concerned.
Mr. Yoshino feared that this statement would place him in
an embarrassing position with! his colleagues in the Government,
would make it appear that concessions were being made under
pressure from the foreign firms rather than spontaneously,
would be likely to antagonize officials of other Departments,
and would thereby injure the cause of the foreign oil com-
panies. Mr. Neville and Mr. Sansom agreed to convey this point
of view to the foreign oil companies, with a view to having
the preamble withdrawn. Mr. Kurusu also brought up the sub-
ject of the postponement of the discussions. This was asked,
he said, for two reasons. One was the obvious one of avoid-
ing questions in the Diet, and the other was to give Mr.
Yoshino time to discuss the question of stock-keeping with
the Japanese oil companies, who up to the present had been
letting

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
letting the foreign firms fight their battles for them.
Mr. Yoshino proposed to ask them to state definitely
whether or not they would store six months' supplies of
oil; if they would, the present regulations would stand, the
foreign oil companies would probably withdraw from Japan,
and the Japanese oil companies would have to carry the ad-
ditional burden that was to have been borne by the foreign
companies; if they would not carry six months' stocks, let
them say so and join with the foreign oil companies in a
petition for a change in the regulations.
Mr. Kurusu's message was transmitted to the represen-
tatives of the foreign oil interests, who consented to delete
the preamble from the memorandum.
On February 27 and 28 the special representatives of
the foreign o1l interests discussed the memorandum with Mr.
Yoshino and Mr. Kurusu. The meetings were not successful
from the point of view of the foreign oil companies. The
Japanese officials "backed water" on several of the points
upon which the foreign oil men understood agreoments in prin-
ciple had been reached, and proposed numerous important
alterations in the memorandum - changes which would have had
the effect, had they been accepted, of emasculating the
document. Mr. Yoshino and Mr. Kurusu also claimed that they
had no authority at this stage of binding any of the depart-
ments of the Government, and that they would have to refer
the whole question to other officials and ascertain their
views before committing themselves. This procedure would
take a week or two, according to Mr. Yoshino, and he there-
fore asked that the conversations be suspended for a time.
The

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
The special representatives of the foreign oil com-
panies readily consented to the postponement of the dis-
cussions, as they saw clearly that they were making no
progrees and as they believed that (1) no concessions
could be obtained from the Japanese while the Diet was in
session, and (2) their absence for a month would give the
officials of the Department of Commerce and Industry an
opportunity to arrange with other Government Departments
(principally the War, Navy and Overseas Departments) and
with the Japanese oil companies for some alteration in
the stock-keeping and other objectionable regulations.
They therefore arranged to leave Japan on March 2 and to
return (if the Japanese officials still desired to continue
the conversations) on April 1.
On March 1, before the departure of the special repre-
sentatives from Japan, Mr. Kurusu of the Foreign Office had
separate talks with Mr. Sansom of the British Embassy and
Mr. Neville of this Embassy, in which he stated that Mr.
Hashimoto, the President of the Nippon Oil Company,had ap-
proached the Department of Commerce and Industry with a view
of obtaining some alteration in the stock-keeping require-
ments. The Department of Commerce and Industry had suggested
that the Japanese oil companies get in touch with the foreign
oil companies and present a joint petition, and therefore Mr.
Kurusu wished the Embassies to transmit this information and
suggestion to the American and British oil interests before
the special representatives left Japan. A memorandum of Mr.
21
Kurusu's conversation with Mr. Neville is enclosed herewith.
The information was duly transmitted to the American oil in-
terests, and before their departure, the special representatives
of

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
of both the Standard and Shell interests sent replies
through their respective Embassies to Mr. Kurusu to the
effect that they, or their local ropresentatives, would
be glad to talk to r. Hashimoto at any time. The spe-
cial representatives of the oil companies, both American
and British, left Yokohama on March 2 and there have been
no further developments in the situation to the date of
writing.
The Embassy has endeavored to obtain a copy for the
Department of the memorandum which the oil interests pre-
pared and left with the Japanese officials, but the repre-
sentatives of the oil interests felt that the situation was
still too nebulous and that the memorandum was subject to
too many changes to render it of any value as a reference.
A copy of the menorandum was, however, shown to a member of
the Embassy staff for his information. It asked that, in
addition to their present quotas, the foreign oil companies
be granted 50 per cent of the natural increase in the oil
trade, after the idle refining capacity in Japan hac been
filled; it agreed to store three months' supplies of oil by
April 1, 1935, provided that all oil in Japan, in whatever
packages contained, and all oil in transit to Japan, be con-
sidered as part of the stock; it suggested, however, that
the foreign oil interests were not prepared to go further
than this in the matter of oil storage; and it asked that
in the matter of price-fixing the formula devised by the
foreign oil companies be taken into consideration.
(This last desiderata perhaps requires some explanation.
The import tariff of Japan imposes a low duty on crude oil
and

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
and a much higher duty on refined oils, the differential
being around five sen per gallon in the case of gasoline.
That is, gasoline distilled from imported crude oil should
cos about five sen less per gallon than gasoline imported
with the import duty. There would be no objection to this
under ordinary conditions - it is a form of protection of
domestic industries com on throughout the world. In Japan,
under the new petroleum law and regulations, however, there
is no free market and open competition. The quantities which
can be imported and the price at which they can be sold are
fixed by the Government. The Government can, therefore, if
it desires, fix a maximum price somewhere within the five
sen differential, which will permit a reasonable profit to the
domestic refiners while causing a steady loss to the impor-
ters. The foreign oil companies' contention is that, if
the Government insists upon fixing maximum prices for oil
products in Japan, in fairness to the licensed importers,
(who, moreover, are required under penalty to carry out fully
any business plan approved by the Government), it should take
into consideration, in fixing the maximum price at which they
can sell, the importers' costs plus the import duty.)
The special representatives of the foreign oil interests
left with the Japanese officials their memorandum, without
accepting the alterations proposed by the Japanese officials.
The representatives of the oil interests believe that, during
their absence from Japan, the officials will work sincerely
to obtain some modifications in the regulations which will
ameliorate the conditions under which the foreign oil com-
panies must operate in Japan, but they are not at all
optimistic

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
optimistic in regard to the probable results, inasmuch as
they are convinced that tie law and enforcing regulations
are largely designed from a national defense point of view,
and that therefore it will be difficult, if not impossible
under present conditions, t) obtain the consent of the Army
and Navy to any substantial modifications. They believe
that before such modifications are consented to, it will
be necessary for them to give the Japanese Government de-
finitely to understand that, unless some substantial al-
terations are made in the enforcing regulations, the foreign
oil interests will withdraw from Japan, with all the impli-
cations of shortage of supply that such withdrawal will
cause. The special representatives of the oil interests
have on several occasions implied to the Japanese officials
that, as it is not comnercially feasible to operate in
Japan under present conditions, they might not be able to
continue in business here, but they have not yet definite-
ly come out into the open and stated that they would with-
draw from Japan if some amelioration of the situation can-
not be obtained. They have decided to retain this warning
for use if, after their return to Japan, they find that the
officials have been unable to obtain any substantial modi-
fications of the regulations. It is probable that the
Japanese oil interests would welcome the withdrawal of the
foreign oil companies from Japan, but it is believed that
more powerful interests would oppose such a move, because
of the international ill-feeling which it would occasion and
because of the threat to the nation's oil supply.
Representations.
Upon the departure from Japan of the special representa
t1ve

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
representatives of the oil interests, I took occasion to
confer with the British Ambassador regarding the probable
outcome of the negotiations. He concurred in my opinion
that, as the negotiations had reached a point where the
officials had to approach other Governmental departments
for their approval of alter t ons in the regul tions, it
would be helpful if we asked the Minister for Foreign Af-
fairs, in an informal way, to use his good offices with
his colleagues in the Cabinet to thc end that a solution
of the difficulties facing the foreign oil coapanies
might be found. Acting under authorizations previously
received (especially the Department's telegram No. 210,
December 20, 8 p.m.), therefore, I mentioned the matter
to Mr. Hirota informally on March 2, 1935, stating that the
special representatives of the foreigr oil interests, who
had left Japan but vho would return in about a month, hoped
that some concrete solution of their difficulties might be
found during their absence, to the end that they might be
in a position to proceed with their business in Japan in
the future with some degree of confidence. I also expressed
the hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs would be kind
enough to endeavor to accomplish that purpose by using his
good offices with the interested members of the Cabinet. The
Minister replied that the whole question of oil is an im-
portant subject in the Diet - he used the words "burning
question" without, I believe, any attempt at a pun - and
for this reason he felt that it would be better if the
question were allowed to lie dormant until the Diet rises.
After that, he thought, it would be possible to arrive at
some satisfactory agreement in regard to the matter. He
then

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.99)
- 9 -
then proceeded to comment on the fact that Japan is depen-
dent upon the United States for its supplies of oil, indi-
cating his appreciation of the fact that it would be un-
wise to antagonize the large American oil interests.
The British Ambassador will take similar action the
next time he sees r. Hirota.
Supplies of Oil to Japan.
Both the Standard and Shell interests, resentful of
their treatment in Japan and Manchuria and possibly fear-
ful of the rise in the Far East of strong Japanese compe-
tition, are apparently determined to prevent, if possible,
the acquisition by Japan of new and adequate sources of
supply of crude oil. The Standard interests are working
slowly, it appears, toward shutting off supplies from in-
dependent producers in California, the principal one of
these, strange as it may seem, being the Standard Oil Com-
pany of California, which apparently has no connection with
the New York and New Jersey companies, except that a small
percentage of the stock of the California company is owned
by the Rockefeller interests. Recently a report was re-
ceived by the foreign oil interests, through the Netherlands
Legation, to the effect that a Dutchman was in Japan for
the purpose of ped ling to the Japanese oil companies cer-
tain prospecting rights in Portuguese Timor, in the East
Indies. The special representatives of the Standard and
Shell interests promptly telegraphed to their representa-
tives at The Hague to acquire jointly these prospecting
rights, in order to shut out any possible Japanese purchase.
Strictly

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.98)
-10-
of 52064 f1 uald 1. Simm, State Dapl
Dowle3///6
STRIOTME SORIDENTIAL
Prospects of the Negotiations.
While thc special representatives of the foreign oil
interests are inclined to be pessimistic with regard to
the outcome of their conversations with the Japanese author-
ities, it is my opinion that the situation is not so hope-
less as might appear on the surface. First, it is not an
unusual procedure for Japanese negotiators to give the
appearance of intransigence until they ascertain that the
other side is obdurate, when they will suddenly shift their
position and make the concessions necessary for an agreement.
Second, it is obvious that the Japanese authorities can make
no concessions under pressure from the foreign interests
without bringing severe criticism upon themselves from mem-
bers of the Diet. No conceesions can the efore be expected
while the Diet is in session. Third, it is my opinion that
the Japanese authorities realize that it would not be the
part of wisdom for a country poor in oil resources to an-
tagonize the two greatest oil interests in the vorld - an
opinion which has becn strengthened by Mr. Hirota's remark
to me on March 2, quoted above. For these reasons I believe
that the special representatives of the oil interests may
find the path to an agreement easier upon their return to
Japan than it was during their recent conversations.
Respectfully yours,
Enclosures:
1/ Memorandum of Conversation
of February 25, Mr. Kurusu,
Joseph C. Grew
Mr. Neville and Mr. Sansom.
2/ Memorandum of Conversation
of March 1, Mr. Neville and
Mr. Kurusu.
4
JM
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.99)
Memorandum of Conversation of
February 25, 1935
Mr. Kurusu
Mr. Neville
Enclosure No
to despatch
Mr. Sansom
No /193 of anc 8,1935 from the
Embassy at Tokyo:
011
Mr. Kurusu asked Mr. Neville and Mr. Sansom to meet
him at 5 p. m. at the Tokyo Club.
He wished to speak to them about the Japan oil problem.
The companies had put in a (draft) memorandum stating their
understanding of the position, their own requirements, and
the methods by which those requirenents could be met by the
Japanese Government. This memorandum was prefaced by a
preamble stating:
"This memorandun.....covers questions relating to
the Petroleum Law which have been discussed
between Lir. Yoshino and the two companies, and
it is understood that Mr. Yoshino agrees with
the conclusions reached and will use his best
efforts to secure the agreement of the Minister
of Commerce and all other Departments concerned."
Mr. Kurusu said that this preamble (which he understood
Mr. Godber to have drafted) could not be accepted in its
present form by Mr. Yoshino. This was not because he
disagreed with the memorandum, though it was true that it
contained a number of points of detail which he could not
say that he accepted. But any categorical statement in
writing of the kind suggested would place him in an
embarrassing position with his colleagues, particularly
those in the Overseas Department who have jurisdiction in
Formosa and Korea.
Mr. Kurusu explained that therefore, not only from the
point of view of Mr. Yoshino, but also in the companies'
own interests, it would be better not to risk antagonizing
other

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
other offisials; and in general it was best to make it
appear as far as possible that conoessions were being made
pontaneously by the Japanese authorities, and not under
pressure.
Mr. Neville and Mr. Sansom stated that they understood
this point of view. Mr. Neville urged that it was natural
and proper for the companies, before their representatives
left, to desire some assurance that they had got to a
definite stage in the negotiations and that an endeavour would
be made to meet them on the basis which they had reached after
protracted discussions. They did not want to come back and
find that they must start all over again.
Mr. Sansom asked whether, in default of Mr. Yoshino's
acceptance of the preamble, Mr. Kurusu could give to Mr.
Neville and himself an oral assurance that he and Mr. Yoshino
would work for the acceptance of the memorandum. If Mr.
Kurusu would give them such an assurance they might feel able
to recommend to the companies that the preamble should be
withdrawn.
Mr. Kurusu said that naturally Mr. Yoshino and himself
were prepared to work for general acceptance of the points
raised; stock keeping, price fixing, or "Control", tenure of
business and quota allotments. He said that he could not,
nor could Yoshino, bind himself in matters of detail.
In
general, however, he could assure us that the memorandum
would be the basis on which Mr. Yoshino would negotiate with
his colleagues. He said that the oil men had come from a
great distance, had been very patient and tactful and that
they could not be requested to suspend the negotiations without
some assurance that the work already done would be resumed
pere they had left off, and not thrown overboard. He said
that neither Yoshino nor himself wanted to sit through another
series

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
series of meetings going over ground already covered. The
oil men could be sure of that and of Mr. Yoshino's desire to
obtain the agreement of his colleagues to a fair arrangement
along the lines of the memorandum. To commit himself in
advance, however, would weaken him with his colleagues, and
in case of disagreement with some of them, place him in a
position where he might have to resign, according to Japanese
ideas. Mr. Neville said that he would be willing to place
this point before the oil men, and ask them to reconsider
Mr. Yoshino's attitude. Mr. Sansom s aid that he would do
the same.
Mr. Kurusu then said that the object of postponement of
the disoussions at this time was two-fold. One, of course,
was to avoid questions in the Diet, and the other was to deal
with the stock-keeping situation. He said that the Japanese
oil interests were very quiet now because they thought that
the foreign oil companies would get the stock keeping require-
ments reduced and that they would benefit from it without any
effort on their part. It was Mr. Yoshino's intention to say
to them that the foreign oil men had gone away feeling that
the stock-keeping requirements were too onerous; that they
felt that they might have to suspend operations on that
account; that the Government wanted to know whether the
Japanese oil interests could comply with the law and regulations
as they stood; if so the Government would make no concessions
and the regulations would not be changed; further, the Govern-
ment would have to play fair with the foreign oil companies
and if they were told that the regulations would not be
changed, the regulations would remain as they are now, and
the Japanese companies held to their word with the additional
burden that was to have been borne by the foreign companies;

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
if, on the other hand, the Japanese interests felt that the
regulations were too onerous, they should speak up, join
with the foreign interests, and come to some understanding
as to what changes should be made. He said that this was
the line which Mr. Yoshino intended to take with the Japanese
oil interests in regard to stock keeping; stock-keeping and
price control he felt were matters common to both the Japanese
oil refiners and the importers. Tenure of business and quotas
primarily, he said, affected importers. In regard to the
latter, it was intended to have the importers participate
in future increase of business, as well as retain their
present quotas, on a basis that would assure the operation
of the refineries in Japan.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
to despatch
Euciosure No
No 1/93 of larcd e, 1935 from the
Fimhassv at Tokyo.
Conversation
March 1, 1935
Mr. Neville and Mr. Kurusu.
011.
Mr. Kurusu called me on the telephone and asked me
to come to see him at 5 P.M. When I reached his office
he told me that he and Mr. Yoshino had told the Japanese
oil companies that they could not expect to obtain any
favors which were not accorded to foreign oil companies
in the administration of the oil control laws, and had
spoken to them along the lines that he had spoken to me.
He said that Mr. Hashimoto, of the Japan Oil Company, had
been to the Department of Commerc: and Industry and had
told the Vice Minister that the Japanese companies would
have to have a reduction in the storage requirements. Mr.
Yoshino had suggested to Mr. Hashimoto that he should get
in touch with the foreign oil companies and if there was a
joint petition of all the important oil concerns, it would
be easier for the Department of Commerce and Industry to
take the matter up sympathetically. Mr. Kurusu asked me
to pass this information on to the American oil men, saying
that he had already spoken to Sansom who had agreed to tell
the Shell people. I said that I should do so.
He then referred to previous conversations, saying
that prices and storage requirements were matters that
were the common interest of all persons in the oil business.
I said that the first thing that I should be asked was
whether

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
whether Joining with the Japanese companies would alter
the status of the discussions that had taken place with
Mr. Yoshino. He said it would not; that it would improve
matters considerably, in his judgment.
E.L.N.

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.89)
36355
OFFICE OF
NO. 22.
APR 8 1935
ai0
219350
Cartagena, Colombia, rch z1, 1935.
nex
Strictly c nfi dential.
yele
(rigina) by Air Hail, co ies by crdim ry uil.
694.2117/2
ASSISTANT SECRETARY
1935
STENAL
APR 9
a MuF.
(illygubed
ueice
THE-SECRETARY-OF-STATE
2
WASHINGTON
13
APP
935
894.6363/184
STR:
vised by she r tae  rie  crrlcials f te  leal
37
is making inquiries in sarrun quilla cencer ing the ex-
714.6
port of crude oil fro Colo: bia for rerining pur uses.
He is also re orted as makig in uiries ab ut bur ker
fuel for the Im eriel Japanese Havy.
This informetion has been tra.s itted to the
Americun Jonsul. te in Barranquilla, the A eri can zega-
tion in Bogotá, end to the Intelliger.ce Ofricer auoard
APR 15 1935
the U. S. S. Nono Is, now in Curt gena Bay. Further
FILED
information on this subject will be transaitted promptly
to the Department when received.
Resectfully yours,
F/FG.
John Brandt,
Aericen Vice Consul.
4
1 l00.
800.
JB/--.

=== Page 154 === (confidence 0.91)
FANDARD-VACUUMOILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
1A
NEW YORK
1935R 3M1123
March 26th, 1935.
zle
FAR ASTERN AFFAIRS
Dr. Stanley K. vornbect, chief,
Livision of Far Eestere Affeire,
A
Department of St:te,
Departnont of State
Washincton, L.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Varh 30 1935
In uhe absence f r. . F. Coe,
I am for ardine u hroueh r. . J. G: llegher, 
894.6363/185
copy of a memorandu of converoati ns which took place
between the Counsellors of the United States and
British Embassies end the Dircetor of the Lureau of
Commercial Affairs of the Jupanese Foreign Office, on
February 25th, lo75, together  ith attach ents which
pertain to negotiations coverin, the Petroleum Industry
Control Law.
It is y under: tardim that Ir. Coe
promised to let yo.  ve copier of these wenorande.
Youre ver. truly,
At may
A.g. May.
AGM:M
Enclosures.

=== Page 155 === (confidence 0.96)
Memorandum of Conversation of
Februury 25, 1935
Mr. Kurusu
Mr. Neville
Mr. Sansom
OIL
met
Mr. Kurusu asier. eville nd r. nsom 
him at 5 p.m. t the Toko lub.
He wishe to sneak to then ubout the Jaoen oil rcblem.
The com anies had ut in  (arurt) memoraundum st tin their
understand in o: the positi n, ir own  uire ents, und
the methods by which these reruireente ceulu be met by the
Japanese Covernuent.
Phis me oranuun wes  ced by 
preamble statin:
"This ue orandum..... covers untiens relating to
the  etroleam Law wt ieh  v been diseussec
betveen . Yoshino c t o coanies, nd
it is unuerstood th t r. Yoshino rees with
the conelusions re cled un. ill use is est
efforts to secure t'e a res ent of the inister
of Commerce und ull other Departments concerned."
I'r. Turusu suid that this prea ble (which he understood
Mr. Godber to hve craftec) co l not oe aces ted in its
present form b.  r. Yoshino. This was not becuu e he
disagreed with the memorandum, thou h it w.s true that it
contained a number of points of detail which he could not
say that he accepted. But an categorical statenent in
writing of the kind su ested would place him in an
embarrassing position with his colleagues, particularly
those in the Overseas Department who have juris iction in
Formosa and Korea.
Mr. Kurusu explained that ther fore, not only from the
point of view of Mr. Yoshino, but also in the companies'
own interests, it would be better not to risk entagonizing
other

=== Page 156 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
other officials; und in eneral it was best to muke it
appear as faras possible thut concessi ns were hein made
spontaneously by the Jepanese cutho"ities, nc not under
pressure.
r. eville and r. vansom st tea that t uhe rstood
this point of view. r. eville ur e ti t it wis n:tural
and proper for the companies, berore their renresentutives
let, to desire some assur nce th t t e ha ot te a
definite st.e in t
ns otiticnst   ceev ould
be made to ment them on the basis  ich they hae re ched rter
protracted discussions. They did not want to cone bae. and
find thut they ust st rt all over uguin.
'r. Sanson usnet whether, in defe ilt of r. Yoshino's
acceptance  the or amble, r. urisu  I ive tr.
Neville and hinself un ore? -ssur nce tht he und :r. Yo ino
would work for the acceptanee of the
cmorunuum.
If Ir.
Kurusu woil ive then sueh un ussur nee they i ht fesl able
to reco mend to the companics th t the prea hle sh il be
withdrawn.
Mr. urusu said th t naturully : r. Yoshino  nd hiacelf
were prepared to work for  eneral acceptunee of t e cints
raised; stock keepin, price fixine, ur "control", tenure of
business und quota ullotments. He s id th t he coil not,
nor coild Yoshino, bind himself in nette s of detail. In
general, however, he co ld assure us that the me orandum
would be the basis on which Mr. Yoshino wouli nerotiate with
his colleagues. He said that the oil men had come from a
great distance, had been very putient und tactful nd that
they could not be requested to suspend the negotiutions without
some assurance that the work already done would be resumed
where they had left off, and not thrown overboard.
He said
that neither Yoshino nor himself wanted to sit through another
series

=== Page 157 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
Aes of meetings going over ground already covered. The
oil men could be sure of that and of Mr. Yoshino's uesire to
obtain the agreenent of his colleagues to a fuir urra. cment
along the lines or the menorundum. To conmit himsolf in
udvance, honever, wo la wea n I vith is colle ues, nd
in cuse of disagres ent wi th s me of the,  im i a
position whe he mi ht have to resi n, accsr in to a nese
ideas. Vr. Teville suid th t e oul be willin: to lace
this int hefor: the cil n, 
toseider
Mr. Yoshino's attitude. r. ansoiu   
the same.
Mr. urusu then saia th. tie bjeet or ost nenent of
the discussion at this tine was twc-fold. ne, of cour e,
was to av id questions in the iet, n  uther s te  e?
with the stock-aeepin sit ien.e i 
unese
oil interests were very uiet lo" pecalre t e the't shat
the foreirn oil com nies wc1 et t st ek ke in re lire-
ments recuced nd th t they would ben it ir itithout ay
effort on their prt. It 's r. Yoshino's intenticn to suy
to them that the foreign cil men hud one wuy feelin; tt
the stock-keepin, re uirenents wer too on rcus; that uhey
felt hut ther i ht .ve to suspon operations on hat
account; that the overn ent wented to now weti er the
Japanese oil interests coulu comply with the 1 w nd ve ul tions
as they stood; if so the overnnent voul ake no concessions
and the regulations would not be changed; further, the govern-
ment would have to play fuir with t e foreign cil comonies
and if they were told that the r gulutions woule not be
changed, the regulutions would renain us they are now, and
the Japanese companies held to their word with the adcitional
burden thet was to huve been borne b: the forign companies;
1f

=== Page 158 === (confidence 0.91)
-4-
on the other hund, the Janunese interests felt that the
regulations we e too onerous, they shoild s eux up, join
with the foreign interests, nu come to some unde stunding
as to what ch nres shoil mact. He sai t ti i w s
the line which r. Yoshino in ondeu to t. e ith te a nose
oil interests in re r: to stcer tee in ; st e'-ke in: nd
price contiol he felt weve mutte s ce n to beth e Janunese
oil ve: iners ts i.s.
prima ily, he suid, arfected incorte s. In re ra to the
latter, it wus ntended tc iive the il orters narticipate
in future increuse of business, us well s retein their
present quotes, en : besis th t woule asrure t e cueretien
of the refineries i Janen.
L

=== Page 159 === (confidence 0.91)
9th rebruary, 1935
His Excellency,
Chuji Machida,
Minister of Cormerce una Industry,
T C Y Y O.
Your Excellency:
Por.1.
r merined
i1 V
tciies
concerned of she sepert nt of  erce & Int  , to ether
with
re ntfirs.
They h v ad in or al diseunniens coneernin the iect of
the Petroleum Law cnd the riinles of  plie ti n o. the Law
and Remlations n the h v ue the o ort  of cleri ing
the views of the nthori ties o. neve 1 i" crt nt oointe. the
undersi ned beliere tha . future r their bus ness will be
nore satisfectorily see re if the lovernnent acce ts their
su estions upon the folloin. point:
Par.2.
th le the rinciple of liherty f tr in w s sti
upplied to Petroleum, prior to the overn ent's ta in action
to control the inustry, the share of the asolihe market in
Jupan Proper held by our two conpanics was 54 an: th t of the
Japanese coninanies wus 46%.
Par.3
This position hus been altered by the introductid
of the Petroleum Law among the objects of which is to ensure the
smooth supply of Petroleum and to stabilize the m rket. The
present division of the industry happens to be that refining

=== Page 160 === (confidence 0.93)
-2-
in japan is done by Japanese Companies while our two Compani
atTa
are confining themselves to importing refined products. We h
been assured however by the officials that it is definitely
policy of the Governnent not to diseri in te a uinst any of
Comounies now  r etin retro n i. Ja an nd in nrticular
they will not diserl nete us between ca unea ornanies and
our two Conoanies. he or ici ls hav further cinted out th
the potiey boline the nere se in
sotrude ive
to Refiners hus been dictatec y t'e neue sity or rincine an
outlet for existin sur lus re nin cu  eity. the ef eet of
thet vo icy however hes peen ve everse t e eri inel position
of she Jopanies so th t tie la nese ve tnies have le been
siven 54 ne cur to Jor nies j intly 4o c: he useline
trade in Japan rroper.
Par.4.
Our Jompanies full arorecite the overmment's
anxieties und wishes regardin the cuestien of exi ting refin
cap city but we fecl also from the convers tions we have held
that the officials on their side realize the dangers of over
developing the refining industry ut the exvense of keeping a
proper balance between rfining and in orting.

=== Page 161 === (confidence 0.94)
-3-
Par.5.
We understand it has also been recornized that a too
rapid utilization of the slack refinin cap city could but op
injuriously to other interests and that it hus therefore been
suggested th t, s not more . n oo,  ilolitres of soli
refinin cuity existin or  ti ned to d e in Janan is 
this slack cupucity sh l  fille over the three rears
tie .. : iner's would
be in in 1st J l?.
receive durin each of the ext three :e rs the first
66/67,000 kilolitres or the increase in c s: ticn while the
balance would be alloc ted pro r ta  te i orters.
Par.6.
Therearter es dis cussed it. te  eiels sone
compromise shoula be ur ive betosn the le ane e present
vositions (as mentiened in par  h. nd ) which woul be f
to the established interests as w ll s  llow full employment
of Refineries. It a pears to us therfo.e t setisf. ctory
compromise of the nature discusced ccil be re: ched und a
position midway hetween the oints of 54 and 46, established
if the increuse in consua tion ufter the slack refining capacit
had been filled were allocated 50% to refine:s and 50% to import
ers so'as to re-establish in part the shure of our two Companies
and reach a 50% basis over a period of years. This position

=== Page 162 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
would allow a fair balance to be kept  or the
ontd.
future between refining und impcrting, particul rly
as we have been informed by tre efiicials thet until the
present refinin  oity is l. rtoyed m oerits will
be iven for new rerineries or extensi ns to existing re-
fineries.
Par.7.
We have also underatoot thet aft r the alrer dy
existins and sa ictioned efinin ca acity  becn rilled new
Fefineries und extensions will ot be cncc ir ed bc ond that
required to take ip te he inerst share of the ierensed con-
sumption nd t at should newcomers be emitt  or celine
in consumption take place the reduction consequent thersfrom
will be allocated pro r ta over all Jompenies.
We trust Your xeelle icy will e leased to
express to us yir a rov:l of the su estions we have made.
We are,
With all respect,
Your Excellency's obedient servants,
L

=== Page 163 === (confidence 0.99)
The attached memorandum deted 20th February,1935
covers questions relating to the Petroleum Law
which have been discussed between Mr. Yoshino
and the two Companies, and it is understood that
Mr.Yoshino agrees with the conclusions reached
and will use his best efforts to secure the
agreement of the Minister of Commerce and all
other Departments concerned.
(This page cancelled at recuest of officiels Feb.23)
20th February,1935.

=== Page 164 === (confidence 0.99)
RANDUM OF MATTERS DISCUSSED BETWEEN THE MINISTRY
COMMERCE, THE STANDARD-VACUUM OIL COMPANY AND THE
RISING SUN PETROLEUM COMPANY
The object of the Petroleum Law No.26 of 1934
being to provide for a smooth and uninterrupted supply
of Petroleum Products to Japan it is recognized that to
achieve this object it is important for Japan to place
no undue restrictions on the importation of Petroleum
products nor to deprive the two Compani es of their vested
interests. It follows therefore that the esteblished
position of the Companies in the Petroleum Trade is to
be respected.
Further it is definitely not the policy of
the Departcent to discriminate against any of the
Companies now marketing Petroleum and its products in
Japan,Chosen and Taiwan, and in particular they will
not discriminate against the two Companies.
JOTAS
Gasoline quotas have been provided for in the
casoline
Japan Proper letter to His Excellency the Minister of Commerce da ted
9th February l935. That letter provides for the fol-
lowing:
GASOLINE
The two Companies will receive in the first
Japan Proper
place the quota already granted for the year l935.
Taking into account the slack refining capacity
existing in the country and sanctioned to dete, the
Department will decide beginning lst January 1936 and for
the three years subsequent thereto to allocate the first
66,500 Kilolitres increase in the consumption of Gasoline
to the Refiners. The balance of the increase in
consumption during that period will be allocated pro rata

=== Page 165 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
to the importers.
Should Matsukata give up his quota or part of his
quota it is understood that the quantity so rendered aveilable
will be allocated pro rata to the two companies as they have
already given up a greater share or the trade than is repre-
sented by Matsukata's quota.
Beginning 1st January 1939 the tonnage
equivalent to the consumption of 1938 shall be divided
in accordance with the division of trade in l938 and
of the increase in consum tion during 1939 and subsequent
years 5o% will be alloceted pro rata to the importers.
GASOLINE
Chosen & Taiwan
There being no problem of refining capacity
the Companies understand that their quotas based on the
trade enjoyed by them during the year 1934 will be res-
tored.
OTHER PRODUCTS
JAPAN Proper
The two compenies understand that the present
& Chosen
shares of the trade will be accepted as the basis and all
& Taiwan
existing marketers in these products will participate
proportionately in any increase or decrease in consumption.
Indigenous production has first call on the market.
in order to provide for the Government's desire to rationalize
the industry and avoid duplication of facilities, if an
existing marketer produces locally in excess of his annual
sales quota then the excess shall be taken at prices and on
cond itions to be agreed upon,pro rata by the remaining
marketers. "Indigenous production" means production of
Crude Oil and/or Gasoline from natural gas. It does not
refer to the production of Refined Products from imported
Crude or Products.
The foregoing provisions can best be put into
practice and maintained if a proper balance is kept between
the total refining capacity in the country and import
licenses for refined products and to that end it has
been oxplained that the competent authorities directly con-
cerned do not intend to grant permits for new refineries nor
to allow extensions that will increase the capacity of
existing refineries until permits for new refineries or
extensions become necessary to meet the Refiners' share of
increased consumption in Japan Proper and the Authorities
will secure a similar understanding in the other territories

=== Page 166 === (confidence 0.99)
ald Matsukata give up his quota or part of his
derstood that the quantity so rendered available
Beginning lst January 1939 the tonnage
valent to the consumption of 1938 shall be divided
accordance with the division of trade in l938 and
the increase in consumption during l939 and subsequent
years 50% will be allocated pro rata to the importers.
Taiwan
There being no problem of refining capacity
the Companies understand thet their quotas based on the
trade enjoyed by them during the year 1934 will be res-
tored.
OTHER PRODUCTS
JAPAN Proper
The two compenies understand that the present
& Chosen
shares of the trade will be accepted as the basis and all
& Taiwan
existing marketers in these products will participate
proportionately in any increase or decrease in consumption.
Indigenous production has first call on the market.
in order to provide for the Government's desire to rationalize
the industry end avoid duplication of facilities, if an
existing marketer produces locally in excess of his annual
sales quota then the excess shall be taken at prices and on
cond itions to be agreed upon,pro rata by the remaining
marketers. "Indigenous production" means production of
Crude Oil and/or Gasoline from natural gas. It does not
refer to the production of Refined Products from imported
Crude or Produc ts.
The foregoing provisions cen best be put into
practice and maintained if a proper balance is kept between
the total refining capacity in the country and import
licenses for refined products and to that end it has
been oxplained that the competent authorities directly con-
cerned do not intend to grant permits for new refineries nor
to allow extensions that will increase the capacity of
existing refineries until permits for new refineries or
ertensions become necessary to meet the Refiners' share of
increased consumption in Japan Proper and the Authorities
will secure a similar understanding in the other territories
referred to

=== Page 167 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
The two Companies understand that should a
decline in consumption take place the reduction consequent
therefrom will be allocated pro rata over all companies.
Also that should a newcomer be admitted e quota
will be grented to him only out of the enticipeted in-
crease in consumption,the quota so grented being borne
pro rata by all the established Companies out of their
anticipated share in the increased consumption. Should
it subsequently be found that the increase in consump-
tion was not sufficient to cover the quota or quotas
granted to newcomers the previously established
companies shall be recompensed for the trade lost and
shall have their shares of the tra de restored when quotas
are allocated in the following year.
Should one Petroleum Product in the future
be developed in such a manner that it eventually re-
places another Petroleum Product it is understood that
the quota originally held for the former product shall
be transferred to the latter product. As an example, if
Gaso line for the propulsion of automobiles,truc ks,etc.
is displaced by another Petroleum Product,such as Diesel
Oil,the quota of each Compeny applying to Gasoline
should apply also to Diesel Oil for this purpose.
STOCK-KEEPING
The stock-holding Plan (Form No.8) which the
Companies ere now preparing to file stipulates the pro-
vision as at April lst 1935 of three months' stock.
For the smooth operation of this part of the regulations
permission will be given that all stocks in the country
may be taken into account as well as stocks in transit.
It is confidently hoped that in the interests of the
whole industry arrangements will be made to give a
similar interpretation to the stock-keeping regulations
for future Stock-holding Plans and that the obligation
of the industry be recognized as being limited to the

=== Page 168 === (confidence 0.99)
Also that should a newcomer be admitted a quota
ill be grented to him only out of the anticipated in-
crease in consumption, the quota so granted being borne
pro rata by all the established Companies out of their
anticipated share in the increased consumption. Should
it subsequently be found that the increase in consump-
tion was not sufficient to cover the quota or quotas
granted to newcomers the previously established
companies shall be recompensed for the trade lost and
shall have their shares of the tre de restored when quotas
are allocated in the following year.
Should one Petroleum Product in the future
be developed in such a manner that it eventually re-
places another Petroleum Product it is understood that
the quota originally held for the former product shall
be transferred to the latter product. A an example, if
Gaso line for the propulsion of automobiles, truc ks, etc.
1s displaced by another Petroleum Product,such as Diesel
Oil, the quota of each Compeny applying to Gasoline
should apply elso to Diesel Oil for this purpose.
STOCK-KEEPING
The stock-holding Plan (Form No.8) which the
Companies ere now preparing to file stipulates the pro-
vision as at April lst 1935 of three months' stock.
For the smooth operation of this part of the regulations
permission will be given that all stocks in the country
may be taken into account as well as stocks in transit.
It is confidently hoped that in the interests of the
whole industry arrangements will be made to give a
similar interpretation to the stock-keeping regulations
for future Stock-holding Plans and that the obligation
of the industry be recognized as being limited to the

=== Page 169 === (confidence 0.99)
4.
quantity referred to above.
To confirm the verbal statemenis mede by
the Companies and to bring out the full implication
of the present stock-keeping regulations a note on the
subject is appended which,for the sake of convenience,
is ma rked "Exhibit A".
EFINING.
Although this undorstanding does not contem-
plate the provision of Refineries by either the Stendard-
Vacuum Oil Company or the Rising Sun Company,it is recog-
nized that should these two Importers desire to construct
Refineries in the territories referred to the Department
is ready to grant the necessary permits within the
limits of the two Compnies' quota whenever the two
Companies request them to do so.
It is further understo d that to re&lise the
benefits intended by the Law it is necessary to secure a
balance between refined products imported,those refined
locally and quotas for Crude importations, and to this
end the competent Authorities concerned will closely
approximate the sales quotas granted to Refiners and
their Cuotas for the importation of Crude,thus avoiding
such a surplus of Crude end/or products as would endanger
the whole scheme of stabilization and price control.
RICE-FIXING
The Compenies have been informed that the
Petroleum Industry Law does not aim et the establishment
of a system of price fixing by the Government.
It is clear,however, thet as the Government
has the right to exercise its authority under Article ?
and take over stocks in time of emergency, a certein

=== Page 170 === (confidence 0.99)
5.
mormula must be devised so that the Industry
know the return it will receive for its products
such an event.
As regards the price currently quoted in
the market for Petroleun: Products, although it has been
stated that the Department has no desire to make a
practice of interfering in the fixing of prices, on
those occasions in the pest when they were forced to do
so they base their consideretions entirely on the cost
to local Refiners end did not take into account the
price of imported products. In view, however, of the
fact that the competent Authorities concerned reslize
that the importation of the necessary quantities of
Refined Products should not be discoureged, it is under.
stood that it is the intention of the Department in
finding a reasonable price in future to permit prices for
imported Cil as well s locally produced products
which will meke possible a fair p ofit to ll concerned.
A formula for these purposes has therefore been devised
and it is atteched to this Memorandum,merked "Exhibit
B".
At the suggestion of the Department a
memorandum is ettached (merked Exhibit C") bringing
out more clearly why the Compenies feel that present
prices are too low and also whya price formula should
be adopted.
Parallel with the necessity for a smooth
and uninterrupted supply of Petroleum Products is the
desirability of enabling all Compenies to plan ahead
so that an efficient and economic supply of these
products remains available at all times to the
consumer. Further, the Law did not intend to
encourage destructive competition or uncertainty

=== Page 171 === (confidence 0.98)
6.
as to the future but that the Industry in the
peaceful pursuit of its development should receive
a fair return on its investment. Such being the case
those concerns who have been responsible for the
initiative of pioneering development,particularly
when for the good of the community the Government
decides to submit that Industry to restrictive
regulations, seem to be entitled to some measure of
ecuriy of tenure. The Companies are satisfied
that with these understandings confirmed they will
be able to continue to play their full part with
the balance of the Industry in its continued growth
and along with them develop ways and means of securing
to the public its supolies of Petroleum Produc ts
efficiently and economicelly. It is suggested there-
fore that a period should be placed upon licenses
granted to the various sections of the Industry and
that a minimum period of ten years should be allowed.
20th February,1935.
ADDENDA
Bxhibit
B0

=== Page 172 === (confidence 0.99)
EXHIBIT "A"
STOCK-KEEPING.
In connection with the regulations relating to stock-
keeping figures have been compiled with the assistance of
the Mining Bureau showing the estimated cost to the industry.
To maintain a cleer six months" stock the initiel cost in
equipment and products for the whole industry is expected
to amount to between ¥70,000,000 and ¥75,000,000, details
of which are available. To maintain these stocks in re-
lation to increasing consumption the industry will heve to
provide an additional annuel capital sum of between ¥8,500,000
and ¥9,000,000. In addition the annual carrying cost of
these stocks will amount to at least ¥7,000,000 annually.
The cost of products has been taken at today's value,
but it is lo compared with the past. If in couse of time
the value of products rises the additional annual capital sum
and carrying cost would correspondingly increase. For this
reason the industry will never be able to celculate in edvance
the final cost of these regulations. Rarely has an industry
been placed in such an uncertain position. For normal stocks
it is a risk which cennot be avoided, but for excess stocks it
becomes a speculation which cennot be jus tified on commercial
grounds.
The stock is not needed for purely commercial purposes,
The history of the Companies here shows that stock ranging be-
tween 1 to 2 months is all that is necessary to protect indus-
try. The average stocks in other consuming countriesare
certainly not in excess of three months and in France, the
only country which is at present operating a Control Law, the
regulations call for three months' stock only. An excess
above this figure therefore is non-commercial and may be looked
upon as a dead asset.

=== Page 173 === (confidence 0.99)
2.
A six months' obligation costs the industry annually a
minimum of 15,000,000 quite apart from the enormous initial
capital expenditure of ¥75,000,000.
Therefore it is urged
thet not only lenient consideretion within the scope of the
regulations is necessary, but that the sacrifice of the in-
dustry could be limited and sound economic requirements fol-
lowed if it is admitted that the consumer and the industry
cannot pay for this expenditure.
13.2.35
W

=== Page 174 === (confidence 0.99)
EXHIBIT "B"
PRICE FORMULA FOR CONSIDERAING CURRENT PRICES.
REFINED PRODUCTS
CRUDE
ICE OF PRODUCT Price at Principal Port of
Price at Principal Port
Origin on Date
of Origin on Date
NB(In the event of there being (In the event of there
no published or definite
being no published or
price at the Port of Origin
definite price at the
a world price will be taken
Port of Origin,a world
from Platt's Oilgram.)
price will be taken
from Platt's Oilgram.)
2.
FREIGHT & INSCE.
Current Freight from
Current Freight from
(Marine)
Principal Port of Origin
Principal Port of
as certified by Reliable
Origin as certified by
Shipping Co.or Broker.
Reliable Shipping Co.
Current Rate as certified
or Broker.
by Reliable Broker.
Current Rate as certi-
fied by Relieble
Broker.
3. OCEAN LEAKAGE
White Products 1%
1%
Heavy Products 3/4%
4SHORE LEAKAGE
White Products 3.2%
White Products 3.2%
Heavy Products 1%
Crude
1%
5. TAXES
All direct taxes or
All direct taxes or
excises in force at time.
excises in force at
time.
6.
DISTRIBUTING.
According to latest
Accoriing to latest
MARKETING &
Annual Plan of Under-
Annual Plan of Under-
OPERATING CHARGES
taking submitted.
taking submitted.
(To include interest on
(To include interest
inventories and working
on inventories and
capital).
working capital).
7. COST OF REFINING
As per Plan submitted.
8. DUTY
All duty actually paid.
Duty actually paid and
allocated to products
as per Refiners' Plan
of Ündertaking.
9.
INTEREST &
Amorization © 7t% p.a.
Amortization @ 72% p.a.
AMORTIZATION ON
Interest at 1% above
Interest at 1% above
TANKS & EQUIPMENT
rate quoted by Yokohama
rate quoted by Yoko
Specie Bank.
hama Specie Bank.
10. INSURANCE (Land)
On tanks and Oil at
On tanks and Oil at
current rates certified
current rates certified
by Reliable Broker.
by Reliable Broker.
11. INTEREST ON LAND
On the original cost of
On the original cost of
all land used for
all Land used for
storage and distribution
storage and distribu-
at 1% higher than the
tion at 1% higher than
rate quoted by Yokohama
the rate quoted by
Specie Bank.
Yokohana Specie Bank.
18. MARGIN OF PROFIT
10%
10%
13/2/35.

=== Page 175 === (confidence 0.99)
hibit B
It is necessary that some definition be made of the word
"principal" as used in the formula in connection with Port
of Origin.
2.
As the Companies and Government are equally interested in
the economics of supplying the market they request that the
following informatior. be given for their guiience under
item 7:
Cap ital Outley
Interest Rate
Amortization Rate.
3. (a)
The Companies request to be informed of the method the
Government will employ in allocating the duty on Crude
over the resulting refined products, when considering
what is a reasonable level for the current price of any
particular product.
(b)
While their past experience and the fundamentel costing
of the two operations show that locel refining is less
economic than refining at producing point the Compenies
realise that there are times when owing to crude prices
being unduly depressed locel refining mey be temporarily
cheaper than importing refined products. The Compnies
request the officials to explein how they propose to arrive
at a reasonable price when the formulae for Refined Prod uwr ts
and Crude show different results. They suggest in view of
the officials' desire to let normel economic laws operate
so far as possible that the Government should not interfere
unless prices rise above the higher of the two price formulae.
(c)
In considering the economics of Refining locally versus
the Import of Refined products from a national point of
view, it is necessary to teke into account the revenue
derived from both operations,otherwise by manipulating
the tariffs almost any result may be obtained.

=== Page 176 === (confidence 0.83)
JIBIT C
Memorandum brin in out clearl w the opanies P el tt present
prices are to 1 / and als y a price formulaouia be adopted.
attention is irawn t the Pollc.in facte ic oriefly
review the history or tne as it art  upan  te time it
Pirst came under the uyervision o she bepartnt of torllerce hen
the ajor Industries Jontrl av .  as  ii t asoline on
Noveaber 4th, 193.
tecause or  o ralize r e i n that preva
ed throu hout Ja an urin t irst al.  los, t si companies
formed a asline cartl,  r in ucea i che of the
objectives  teajer durtus utrel a. .  cein to
stabilize the ast li r a an an t av i: streive
competition.
'is a ree.eit vas  ade wit. t.e approuttian o? the
Jepartment o oeree nty  vas erec r . 1,19s2
until uly1,lrin  ran
p the shokose, aoliPies rere avee
erficial selod le luvel
becenber 1, 12.
n u i,l te car  u Por
anothr yourt ttilhewould
shortltur t  u anticieen
thatlo replteirearincales
of Russian las lre, e iciully
petitionet  hohost entriese e i t umer
standiareeed
witn certain anmend ents.t ta so  ired
representatives o? the cartel that  i.  tail rice Pall
below the orrisial schedule or 49 sen berore und a p  it was reached
the cartel could restore the 49 sen basis without urt.er eference
to the Department.

=== Page 177 === (confidence 0.86)
一 2 -
Unfortunately, nowever, the listribution of Hussian
Soline was not brought under the Law, with the result that des-
tructive competition started at the eni of urust lyss, and continued
until the early part of une los4. jurin: this period of open
competition prices dropped fron. the scledule level of i sen ex
pump Tokyo to approximutely 2 sen resultin.: in .  vy losses to the
Petroleum Industry. At tai stage n the vice  the okosno
the cartel companies c ncluded a teporar, t.ee  ont' a reement
(June to August lys4) vith vue uistrioutur  ussian asuline.
imultaneousl it.  nforce ent o this agreement
an attenpt was rale t. advance prices to  er cneiule level
- - of 49 sen vut consiterin: e suide mess and uxtent  t is advance
if accomplished in ne step , the cartel in'or. t... .ohos.o t at
as a Pirst ste tey intendel t eivanee rly to a to sn level.
The lovernmo t, vecau e of social cen s on, rivised
the cartel hat ir vir opinion sere asaei, i.. eiter  
cartel or e ers, t1. reco   vice  ot
advanced above  sen, idieitin t mt ie treir auvice was not
follove overn ont u p e uis n e ex ucter  casea boycott.
In v ew or tn eoel vs liie niiui auvance
to e sen n  a t r e rces  e er vere cbli ei to
rebate1 rvelul
In ve r l, at i, ae  enfreer ent of
the retrolem ndura, e
.i:.ies
again petitioned te use Por  vnce  i.  in asuline
prices  after protraet ne otieic tee v a  rved
an advance or oniy  sen or tlon, pri in t up level of
retail prices in okyo to 4 veu,  ic satis
factory, the oil c mpanies, includin:  erei  i porters, agreed
having first obtained the phokoshe's unterstan lin that is advance
was santioned entirely on the rounds that elistin prices were
unremunerative and that the advance had no cunnectien hatever with
the compulsory stockholding issue.

=== Page 178 === (confidence 0.91)
- 3 -
In support of the contention of the oil companies that
January 1st 193s price level (i.e. 45 sen per gallon) is still
unsatisfactory we submit the following:
Thereas pump prices in Jeceer 191 were 39/40 sen
per A.G.
1. jince Decer.ber l931 the excnan e value o? the Yen
has dropped approxirately 40 , i.e.
Exchange
December 191 ....
January 1950
Jec. ease.
2. he tariff on all petroleu. pr ructe mas mivanced 3
Tariff
Jecenber 191 ..... .0 per 1 erican
callons
January 1o ...... ¥1.0
Increase
pump prices in Januar: 19s sre +3 sen per ... i. - n increase
over pecember 1931 op nly 10% in contrest vit. 0/c, ine ease
in the seliinriceotr re   er, not
withstartin te fact t te ort barir cur s not
been chan ed except r u  t inere e in pos uet s ure parts.
In connection it. t i increase c co/so in  price'tor cars,
as co pared vit the lo) inerease in casuline lee, i s lso of
interest t) ncts r. tne at tacled illustratiom t ly ll.o7. of
the cost or operatin motor velicles in a"n i pe renenti by
the cost  as ine.
ince e ter so  prieeraselin
was 49 sen r 
1. rude prices ave advancel   i a , i.e.
Crude ettleman 37 Plus
Junmer of 1933
0.4 per varrel
"anuary
1935
1.05
Increase
25

=== Page 179 === (confidence 0.87)
2.
ranspacific frei ht rates for crude cargues ave
advanced from the level of about  shillins per ton
to above le shillingstoduy, representin: an increase
of ver 25%.
Transpacific rei ht
summer of 1953
8 shillings per ton
January
1930
..10
or more per ton
Increase..........o.
Furthermore, notwithstandin the inerease in prices
made on anuary lt, ls, the cust or asoline t the consumer in
Japan to-day is still the lowest in the vorld un. considerably below
world parity.
In view  the re in i: our considered belief
that ths thokosho shoul, in the pess in serust cf the .etr leum Tndus-
try in Japan, a ree to a rmp e msideration  the ccsts in accordanc
w th the sasoline price p uh astache. t ur me orandum ans marked
Exhibit B. Ir thi. Luvesti mei a shos tae, aite apart Prom
the steck llin ues,  l i,  e etend, Justified
in advancin; i
okyo  ip leve 4 m per
(the price level u.  vo
vrn ecber 1,1) then
we Pelue it
asneiusace tneir
retailrico
1V:1
at a.. .9
Pull 9 senic:1
pebruary 10, 1..3.

=== Page 180 === (confidence 0.82)
nded to hokosho by R...co. on ebruary 2h 1935.
..P.Co. Ufricial Memo. No. 8
MORANDUN
This : emorandum at enpts t estimate the increase
in th., consumption o. etr leua roducts that may be ex-
pected in apan . roper uurin te n xt ten years:-
irstly:
s. that tne size o? the li ures thenselves
reciated.
econdly:
  a lu tuineu u
the puantitio e re wired,
  ir 
re eipet and
(e) th eet  revente
i un att ie t re ine in apan
lert or the
Dirily:
veeatsie th
rure
  corou out.
o luet ate very
cluari
(1) he necessi
eus
bewe
r un extsnde rio
CONSULIPTION OF
e c   , ie  liel
PETRCLEUN
continue s to Punia  e, i sthatei to
PRODUCTS
increase at tie rate c l; per annw.:
and u very
conservative stinate o o inerene  uavy vil

=== Page 181 === (confidence 0.85)
- 2-
consumption is : per annum. o apprcciable increase is
anticipated in the demand for i.erosene and Light cil. on
this basis the co parison between the sti.ated consumption
Japan roper in 1943 and 1Jo. is:-
 &
JASULINE
LIGT UIL
HEAVY OIL
1930 Imported
060,60 1s
60,40 I1s
1,082,663 Kls
Locally
Refined
83.228
27.9
"
13.682
n
1,112,7
”
42,07
1,200,340
1945
5,71,724
”
342,073
”
2,062,000
CRUDE RE-
If the waole demand of Jasoline in lois were to
QUIREMENTS.
be met by l cal refinin , even ailo. in the extraction of
las line r rue uy atrai cht ditillation and cracting
to e us hi  ue ou, it  ul an tat apan's require-
nentu
Puo  incree rom out
1. lolitrs (,,  n 1
to
3,377, 1l11es 37,1,0 r1 1 1
uc a i  pere ta e c as line extraction
y r  turi e.cetional
pualit, sue s ettlerrn i  vrle. l rt of the
vielu Pr the Lettlenan ool is rude ur i pe und it
is in ossinle a' such a lar ua. ti l. be obtainable
so that it vould be necessary t  e  rude of more
avera e puality. prom sue. ruie oo as iin extraction

=== Page 182 === (confidence 0.90)
- 3 -
must be considered a liin avera e, and n this basis Japan
requirements in 194s would be
7,306,000 i10l1tres (40,277,c00 barre1 rude,
(excludin the eavy rude or istiilate req ired tor the
manu 'acture of the additionat  ntity or ubricating  il
necessary to meet the inc easin e anu Por that product.
It is estiited that b la.. ricatin il consumption
will be at least 2,e kilolitr s ore t in 19,
representin about
400,0  ilciitres ,l,  arre):uterial vil).
ns ve beieve, i is ubti  as sc a
large prantit e  even averu e uality vould be
available, is e nti ee an uncertain and veak founiation
on wie t base t u os expenditure tt is shown
bel v to o necessar i e e  r ire re irenents
are t se maau 'uctared in  apn te illustrates the dan ers
REFINIING PLAIT
lo pr vi te irs, class me ern refiner eu to
& ERUIPMENT.
hanile t e inereuse in r de il re juireionts envisaged
above would wean an increase! inves tren' in pe ineries,
equiprent and land that cel, net e pur pelow
¥168,000,000.
It is obvious that an invest nt of this size
and nature cannot be contemolated  th any sense of
responsibilit: on a speculative basis an: it is, therefore,
essential that there should be adequate security of supply.

=== Page 183 === (confidence 0.91)
- 4 -
BOT ON
It can be estimated that the )uty recei ts would
STINUE
be at least ¥4. per liloliter less from rude than from the
products manufactured from such orude if hey vere imported
ready-refined.
If the juties are required for revenue purposes
this means that Tapan vl in 'act be losing
￥187,000,000
durin" the next ten year. , as ur experience of local
refinine would inuicate, the utie are repuired to protect
reriners, the cost to the ation durin that periou would
be represented by this ¥1.7,,.
cur experience as wcrld-vide prouucers, reriners,
transporters and marheters o utroleu . roaucts nas enabled
us to appreciate the necessity o' tanin" a lon view of
retroleum proble e, as the suns irv lved are lerge and
increasin: so that t retrace a false step is vot. air icult
and costly. In auy catin to t el . a balance
be kept between tu impertetion o' pinea  ucts and
l cal refinin uo  v iu tie over-develop ent  the
l cal refinin indusir, e ave e.  vi t e beule
development oauso ve recoended
the only course t at in our opiniun ives securi. te the
Japnese Inaustry, urselve. an t e starer.
Iuports  ro ined promucts, osover,  ul: need
to be eneoura ed, e tat importers received  rair price
P.r tn ir products.
INVESTIENT
The stock-hole in. re ulabione o: me  av call for
REJUIRED FOR
STOCKHOLDING 5O; of imports to be carrieu in stoen in the ove nment's
interests.

=== Page 184 === (confidence 0.86)
-  -
C.RUDE OIL:
This would nean b: 19s holding in
stock 50; of 7,356,o00  ilolitres or rude and providing
the necessary tankare, torether witi: the land therefore,
the total cost on vhic. iu estimated t be:
Crude cil
3,678,00.11011tres
¥36.00
￥132,408,000
Tankage
5,67,000 Kilolitres
¥11.00
￥42,297,000
Land
207,460 Tsubo
¥40.00
￥10.298.400
A JAL
￥185,00,400
CRUD.) UIL (Heavy)
Material il
200,00
ilolire
￥
7,200,000
ankage
200,000 Hi1011tres
¥11.00
2,300,000
Land
14,000 
¥40.00
580.000
100,000
HEAVY UIL:
xisractionsuline
entails craccinl.n
e
s,i e exce bion
of abcut
et the
pute which i te
ii,
eavy il p pemento
  t eref re in
lso are est. atea 
11
litres, i.. 1, ,
,,arel).
he
tpii atins
in rou pect of 
Heavyil
¥1.0
anka e
htiiolitreo
10,,00
and
19
intves
 -l ing

=== Page 185 === (confidence 0.81)
-  -
rude
il
1
rude
11 env
eav. i1
1
Jec maly:
o c. nei ur s.e
e risks
211
atis
lly
in a vanee,
e Peei tut he overnnent ul
lave  Lpouvible
respen i on te  i t not elve e rblem if
 utt   recover bhe cost ' -kepin by neans
uf an ine pase tn the sellins price o pre uet, it shifted
to the Jompanies t e onus of extracting the cust rom an
unwilling Public. An increase in price t cover the cost of
stock-keeping would not avoid the serious eubarrassment to

=== Page 186 === (confidence 0.87)
- 7 -
the Industr: of finding te ini vial und annuully increasing
capital or o" Inowin the itimate cost  the obli ation.
In our opinion, therePore, te stoe :-keupin:
obligatin ould te Pe a a le quansl, mely,
not over three montus as it; ested in Aisit a', vic
is not out o relation t t Pai u  the
Industry.
20th 'ebruar 1930
GW

=== Page 187 === (confidence 0.73)
March s0 10
PyL.
, yoe
the y 
mts to the stmtien mter aiseeslen to apgeesd
simeesely yours,
For the Seeretery of state:
Sk+
Staaley L. Bembeek,
Bivisim ef Far sters Affaire.
...
Stendard-Tam etl Gompeny.
e Bremy.
Bow Yosk, Now York.
MAR 30 1955
02 Vsomy
nal.
0.m06.
FR
3/20/35

=== Page 188 === (confidence 0.92)
894.6363
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.6363/1
SEE 893.6363 1anchur1u/155
FOR
Ni Orandum
FRoM.tate.Depurtment
(lHornbeck
...) DATED
Murch L2
1935.
Far rastern Liv.
TO
NAME
1 1127
86
The Petroleum situation in Jspun and in Iunchuria:
REGARDING:
To make eff ctive their policy of trinrinr pressure by re-
fusin to sell oil to the Fonopcly, the erican und
British Oil Interests in unchuriu sugrest thet un c"fo.t
should be made to trint the mericen Gil Interests in
Californiu "into line". Convertion of r. Hornbeck vith
certain officers of the tandard vil Company of Nev. Jeraey
and of the rdard-Vecuum Cil Compuny.
5RG.
(0

=== Page 189 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
March 29, 1935.
Rius
(Number 36853):
London Military Attaché's reports.
Reports include some interesting
information on the Japanese oil situation,
and on the new railway connecting
Harbin with the Soviet.
PP/DLY
894.1363

=== Page 190 === (confidence 0.87)
FOR OFFTCIAL USE
ONLY
6-5
2655
32
1935
to
The 011 siteesion.
FLHD

=== Page 191 === (confidence 0.96)
(am)
TELEGRAM REOEIVED
RR
Tokyo
This telegrem must be
FROM
Dated April 4, 1935.
closely p&raphrased be-
fore being communicated
Recd. 6:32 a. m.
to anyone (B)
Àpr1l 4 1935
el
Secretary of State,
Washington.
894.6363/188
ivarnment of State
894.6363
73, Apr11 4, 4 p. m.
10007
Standard Vacuum requests that a message of which
the following is a paraphrase be trar smitted to Dundas
Standard Vacuum Oil Company, New York.
"Please repeat the following to Prioleau Nether-
lands Koloniale Petroleum Maatschapnfj, The Hague.
Godber has sent a message through the British
Embassy here to London to the effect that according to
confidential information which has reached him Japanese have
offered to buy the Sadjira properties for one million guild.
ers and the commanding officers of the army and navy and th
Governor General have informed their superiors in Holland
by telegraph that they do not object. The exact terms
the offer are not known but one million guilders should
give them complete control of the properties mentioned.
Inform chairman. Walden'".
WSB
GREW
F/G

=== Page 192 === (confidence 0.85)
Apr11 4, 1996.
y  .Ddes
As me erally mée kmem to you this aftermeem by
 et & Iane distamse telepheme call, the Department
has reeeived frem the Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo a telegrem
894.6363/188
ate Aeil 4, & p, to the ffeet that the
mattse to you a measege mhieh reads substantially es
fellows:
It is requested that the following be re-
Theme hes benn sent by Gedber toe Londem

=== Page 193 === (confidence 0.82)
stneesely yours,
For the Sesretary of State:
Stanley L. Eorabesk.
chief.
Divisiom of Far Eastern Affairs.
copy of
7.m.N.
nav
FEIM:EJL
FE
PR. 1986

=== Page 194 === (confidence 0.98)
RCM
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
tre cmnutim nx Apri1 9, 1935.
ROM：
Tokyo's 1207 of March 22, 1935, in
regard to the Japan oil situation:
The principal representatives in Japan
of the Standard and Shell interests had a
conversation with the president of the
Nippon Oil Company. A copy of that
memorandum is attached. Although both the
native and foreign groups are willing to
make a concerted request to the Japanese
Government that the conditions which would
be imposed under the new petroleum law
be ameliorated, the two groups did not seem
to be able to agree in regard to what the
Japanese Government might be asked to do.
The reason for such disagreement is, of
course, the obvious one that although the
Japanese oil concerns can be confident that
the Japanese Government will protect their
interests, the foreign oil concerns have
no assurance that their interests in
Japan will be permanently safeguarded by
the Japanese Government.
It is also to be noted that the Japa-
nese Navy Department is reported to be
opposed to any amelioration of the require-
ments of the new law in regard to the
quantity of reserve stocks to be maintained
by

=== Page 195 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
by the oil companies.
A Japanese paper reports that efforts
to exploit an oil field in Borneo are to
be abandoned and that it is intended to
prospect for oil in Formosa.
The present despatch is an ad interim
report to cover the relatively unimportant
developments during the temporary absence
from Japan of the special representatives
of the foreign oil concerns.
894.6363/189.

=== Page 196 === (confidence 0.92)
E
EMBASSY OF THE
(
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, March 22, 1935.
No. 1207.
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
so
994.6363
A
wer
894.6363/189
15:
11A
For 1
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
FTLED
1:8
No. 1193, dated March 8, 1935, and to previous corres-
pondence in regard to the difficulties being experienced
by foreign oil intercsts in Japan under the Petroleum In-
dustry Law, and to report that the special representatives
of the oil interests, having suspended their conversations
with the Japanese officials and having left Japan tempora-
rily, no important developments in the situation took place
during the past two weeks.
Conversations.
F/G
11

=== Page 197 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Conversations.
As reported in despatch No. l193, before leaving
Japan the special representatives of the foreign oil in-
terests agreed to a suggestion which came through Mr.
Kurusu, of the Forcign Office, that the forcign oil com-
panies should discuss the stock-keeping question with the
Japanese oil companies, with a view to taking joint steps
in an endeavor to obtain some amel oration of the stock-
keeping requirements. In compliance with this suggestion,
on March 12, 1955, Mir. Goold of the Standard-Vacuum 011
Company and Mr. Malcolm of the Rising Sun Petroleum Com-
pany had a conversation with Mr. Hashimoto, President of
1/ the Nippon Oil Company. A memorandum of the conversation
is enclosed herewith. It will be noted from this memoran-
dum that Mr. Hashimoto is of the opinion that the foreign
and Japanese oil companies should present a joint petition
asking either that a subsidy be granted to cover the cost
of stock-keeping, or that the price of gasoline be raised
for the same purpose, while the foreign oil companies wish
the stock-keeping requirements modified to, say, three months'
stocks instead of the present six months' stocks. A subsidy,
at least for alien firms, is out of the question, and the
foreign oil companies feel that the allocation of all or a
part of an increase in the price of gasoline to cover the
cost of stock-keeping would be unsatisfactory, partly because
it would not relieve them of the heavy initial cost of build-
ing tanks and filling them with oils, and partly because the
future value of any increase in the price of gasoline would
be

=== Page 198 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
be uncertain, due to the fluctuations in the cost of crude
oil and in the exchange value of the yen. The importers
of refined oils and the Japanese refiners stand in entire-
ly different positions in regard to the question of stock-
keeping. The refiners are reasonably certain of their fu-
ture, as thc Japanese Government will do its best to de-
velop the industry and therefore will protect the interests
of the refiners, while the importers are in no way certain
of their future in Japan. The investment of capital by the
refiners in more tanks and other storage facilities is not
unreasonable, as such tanks wil! certainly be required by
the future expansion of the industry, even if not required
for the compulsory storage of stocks, while the importers
of refined products cannot, as a conmercial proposition,
invest further capital in a market which seems certain to be
restricted, as far as they are concerned. The foreign im-
porters and the Japanese refiners therefore take different
views of the situation. They both desire amelioration of
the present circumstances, but they desire amelioration in
different ways. The Japanese refiners are willing (to some
extent) to carry the stocks required by the Government, but
wish the Government to bear the carrying costs or to permit
the cost to be passed on to the consumer. The foreign im-
porters are not willing for the reasons given above, to store
the stocks required and wish the Government to modify the re-
quirements. There seems to be no basis for joint action by
the Japanese refiners and the foreign importers.
On March 20, therefore, the local representatives of
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum
Company

=== Page 199 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
Company, acting on instructions received from the special
representatives, who are now in HongKong, called on Mr.
Kurusu, of the Foreign Office, and informed him that the
basis for a joint petition proposed by Mr. Hashimoto of
the Nippon Oil Company was in their opinion impracticable
and unacceptable. After some discussion of the matter Mr.
Kurusu said that he would consult Mr. Yoshino, of the De-
partment of Commerce and Industry, in regar  to further
steps. The project for j int action by the Japanese and
foreign oil companies there rests at the moment.
The Japanese Government's Attitude.
In accordance with the agreement reached with the spe-
cial representatives of thc foreign oil interests before
their departure fron Japan, the Department of Commerce and
Industry has taken up with other governmental departments
the questions which have been discussed by the representa-
tives of the foreign oil interests. On March 1l Mr. Yoshino,
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, had a conference
with representatives of the Departments of War and Navy.
Nothing is yet definitely known of the results of the conference,
but from a casual remark of Mr. Kurusu (who did not attend
the conference but who is in close touch with Mr. Yoshino)
it appears that the Army and Navy representatives were not
willing to accede to the foreign firms' desires in regard
to the question of the mitigation of the stock-keeping re-
quirements. It is believed that the Foreign Office and De-
partment of Commerce and Industry representatives are really
convinced of the impracticability of the present regulations
and

=== Page 200 === (confidence 0.96)
- 5 -
and fearful of their effect upon Japan's foreign relations,
but that the Army and Navy constitute a stumbling block
to any modification of the requirements.
The Search for Qil.
The KOKUMIN SHIMBUN reports, under date of March 16,
that the Nippon Oil Company, wh c! has been working jointly
with the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha to exploit an oil field in
Borneo, has decided to abandon the Borneo project and to
concentrate its efforts on oil fields in Formosa. The
Japanese Navy has two reserve oil fields in Formosa, at
Takao and Kosen, which they have asked the Nippon Oil Com-
pany to exploit. The Company also intends to conduct pros-
pecting operations in the Hozan field in Formosa.
Respectfully yours,
)
Joseph C. Grew
Enclosure:
1/ Copy of Memorandum of Conversation
of March 12, 1935.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 201 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No I to despatch
No 1207of warch 22, 1935 from the
E.,bassy at Tokyo.
Meeting at Tokyo Kaikan. March 12.1935
Present:
Mr. Hashimoto, President of the Nippon Oil Company
Mr. Horie
Sales Manager "
"(interpreter)
Mr. Malcolm
Rising Sun Petroleum Company
Mr. Goold
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
The following is a synopsis of the important points
made by Hashimoto:
1. In view of the remarks made to Hashimoto by Messrs.Godber,
Walden and Parker (at the luncheon given by Mr. Shigemitsu)
concerning the advisability of cooperation between the
foreign and Japanese companies, Hashimoto wanted a frank
talk with Malcolm and Goold and had therefore suggested
the meeting.
2.
He knew of no discussion between himself and Yoshino or
any other Government official at which any suggestion
had been made that the foreign and Japanese companies
should unite in petitioning the Government to reduce
the stock-holding requirements.
(Note: Such a message had come to Goold on March lst
from Kurusu through Neville, 3 months having
been mentioned).
3.
Hashimoto stated that the Nippon Oil Company, possibly
with minor exceptions would meet the stock-holding re-
quirements of the law as of April lst (at a cost of
¥5,200,000 borrowed from the Banks) and that the Nippon
Oil Co. also intended to comply as of October 1st, 1935
(at a cost of about ¥12,000,000) having already commenced
construction of the tanks. He also stated that the price
for crude oil had as yet not been fixed but the necessary
*quantity" arrangements had been made. He stated the
Nippon

=== Page 202 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Nippon Oil Co. might be "a little late but not much"
in having the tanks filled. As far as he knew the
other Japanese companies had made similar plans and
would also be able to meet the stock-holding obliga-
tions on the requisite dated. Hashimoto said, however,
that he fully realized the growing burden imposed by
stock-holding in future years, as business increased,
and was exceedingly worried about it.
4.
Hashimoto suggested a petition from all the oil companies
to the Government to grant a subsidy to pay for the cost
of stock-holding or failing this, authorization to ad-
vance the price of gasoline for such purpose. Hashi-
moto admitted there was no chance for a subsidy this
year at least, because the Co unerce Minister had dis-
cussed the question with the Finance Minister prior to
the presentation of this year's Budget and had learned
no funds could be appropriated.
5.
Hashimoto said the three party cartel (Rengo Kai) was
composed of the Nippon, Ogura and Mitsubishi and was
working smoothly and that Hayama and Aikoku had agreed
to join although Matsukata had been gradually drifting
away from the meetings of the Japanese companies. Hashi-
moto thought it was advisable for the foreign companies
to join in arranging a new cartel to include all the
oil companies, in which case he thought Matsukata might
come into line and market prices could be strengthened.
He suggested that the petition referred to in Par. 4
could be sent in the name of the new cartel which would
include all the oil companies.
6.
He promised to give the foreign companies a copy of the
Rengo

=== Page 203 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Rengo Kai agreement for study saying that each parti-
cipant had to post guarantee funds, and that in general
it was similar to the old sixty party cartel which
involved exchange of figures fines for overtrading,
net price agreements, audits, etc.
7.
Hashimoto stated that existing gasoline prices returned
little or no profit to the Japanese companies who were
very dissatisfied with the price level.
8.
He suggested that second parties and dealers might join
in petitioning the Government for higher gasoline sell-
ing prices.
9.
He promised to let us know the amount of duty which the
Nippon allocated to gasoline when calculating gasoline
costs.
10. Hashimoto said he had rocently cabled Lon on, Berlin,
New York, etc. to ascertain the relationship between the
price of gasoline and the prices of meat, bread, etc.,
this for use in asking the Government to approve higher
gasoline prices in Japan.
The following is a synopsis of the principal points made
by the foreign oil company representatives:
1.
They wished to cooperate with the Japanese companies
as far as consistent but were surprised to learn that
the Japanese companies had no intention of petitioning
the Government to reduce the stock-holding requirements
say to 3 months or less.
2.
They thought that the gasoline selling price question
and the compulsory stock-holding question should be
kept separate and distinct in all cost calculations
and

=== Page 204 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
and in any approach to the Government, pointing out
that apart from the added cost per gallon, arising
from stock-holding, was the question of whether or
not the foreign companies could consi er the enor-
mous capital investment required.
3.
They would like to have an opportunity of studying
the draft of the proposed petition which was to be
prepared by Hashimoto before they could state their
willingness to subscribe to it.
4.
They could meet the stock-holding requirements as of
April lst only as the result of the Government's
having placed a liberal interpretation on some sections
of the regulations.
5.
They favored in principle the establishment of a new
gasoline cartel embracing all companies,but before
committing themselves definitely wanted to know details,
and assuming the agreement would in the main take the
form of the existing three party cartel (Rengo Kai)
would first like an opportunity to study its text.
(Note: Hashimoto promised to furnish a copy of the
Rengo Kai agreement)
6.
They pointed out that the foreign companies had had their
gasoline business curtailed the last half of 1934 and
also for l935 and that therefore if they joined a cartel
they did not wish to be confronted with a suggestion
that all companies voluntarily restrict their sales on
a pro-rata basis should it be considered by the cartel
that the total gasoline sales plans approved by the
Government for l935 were in excess of actual consump-
tion.
7.

=== Page 205 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
They thought the cost of selling and distributing should
be exchanged between al? companies and thought also
that the Government when authorizing a higher selling
price level would be more influenced by actual costs
than by conditions in other countries.
8.
That they had presented a memorandum to the Government
pointing out that the selling price of gasoline in
Japan was the lowest in the world and presenting argu-
ments why prices should be adv nced, and would be glad
to show Hashimoto a copy if he thought it would be of
any benefit.
(Note: Hashimoto replied that he would be very pleased
to receive a copy)
9.
They pointed out that if the foreign comnpanies found
the conditions imposed by the new control law were too
onerous nd had to withdraw from Japan, that this would
add immeasurably to the burden the Japanese oil com-
panies would have to bear in respect to stock-holding.
They said they somewhat doubted the wisdom of following
Hashimoto's suggestion to have second parties and deal-
ers petition the Government for higher prices which
might create unlooked for difficulties in view of the
difference in selling systems of the various companies,
etc., etc., however, they would like to think over the
suggestion.

=== Page 206 === (confidence 0.93)
(ncm)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
PS
This telecrm must be
Tokyo
FROM
closely paraphrased be-
Dated April 8, 1935 Lmg dutance
fore being communicated
call and letter
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 2:20 pam.
To Mu. dundae
706
.9,3
nicy
Secretary of State,
40
894.6363/1
Jashington.
A
115
9 State
ne
76, Apri1 8, 6 p.m.
Standard Vecuum requests that : message of which
the following is a paraphrase be transmitted to Dundas
Standard Vacuum Oil Company, New York.
90
"On April 6, Godber sent a cable to Agnew through
the British Limbassy to the followin effect: We believe
since our meeting with the Japanese officials that they
are anxious to prevent a break. They seem to be thinkin;
alon; the lines of (one) reducing stock keeping for im-
porters to three months, (two) guaranteeing the present
FILED
galloncge, (three) giving no commitment either to impor-
ters .or to refiners regarding the llocation of the in-
d
crease in consumption, (four) considering an increase in
the price of gasoline if application is made by both Japan-
e
ese companies and importers and (five) not discriminating
as between nationalities. The president of the Nippon Oil
Company has agreed that Japanese co..panies join us in a
joint
F/G

=== Page 207 === (confidence 0.95)
FS
2-No. 76, Apr11 8, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
joint petition on both price and stock questions. It
would appear thst in  ractice and as long as suitable
C
roints turee and five above would reult in the allocation
of the 'ulk of the n'turul increase in cemand to the
Japanese refiners hut it also appear: that time is on
our side. In any case we shall endervor to have safe-
guards included in any agreement. The Japanese officials
have promised us a proposal by nex Tuesday or Vednesday
and until its receipt ve are makin: no serious attempt to
develop the situation. End of Golb r's nessage. Ye can
add nothin to the above. Please inform the Texas Company.
Walden."
5SB
GREW

=== Page 208 === (confidence 0.82)
April 9, 1955.
894.6363/190
mom to you this 
ssived fren the Amsriees Embessy at Toikye a telogsm mée
,tht he -T
tngenste thes there be taessmitted te yeu a mee
smbotemtially es fellems:
1100

=== Page 209 === (confidence 0.84)
advise the Tome Cog
sinesrely yours,
Fer the Sesretary of state:
Stanley L. Hormbeek.
crief.
Division of Far Easterm Affairs.
1035
naau
the en ri
A true opy nf

=== Page 210 === (confidence 0.92)
ytlo
FE
4
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mc
ROOM 1411
L
26 BROADWAY
APB 6: 1035
NEW YORK
Do
Department of State
April 5, 1935.
DC.R
FE 894.6363/188
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chici,
Livicion of rar Lastern Affairs,
Depertment of State,
Washington, D.C.
Deer Dr. Hornteck:
I em much olliged to you for accucinting
894.6363/191
me of the messege reccived from Tokio in respoct to
a Japanese bic for the Sadjirs properti-s. I under-
stand that the prospoct: of finaing oil in puying
cuantitics fron thet concession are unfevoreble, which
mey eccount for the attitude of the Governor enere?
end the navy nd ermy high commond as re orted in the
messege. The concession i in he Ialond of J-ve,
 short distone from nd to the south: cst of Batovic.
FTLED
Your. vr ruly,
. Dindas
HL/ED
F/G

=== Page 211 === (confidence 0.94)
4
dhe
ROOM 1411
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
1007
FE
April 10, 1955.
Dr. Stenley K. Hornt cc), Chic:,
Livi:ion of Per bet rn Afitir,
FE 894.6367/109
De artment of St:t,
Washington, D.C.
894.6363
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
I vish to thunk you for telephone cull
yesterday und your letter of the ath inst. covering
messege received from Je p in connectice ith con-
versstions now tein conducted there. Tr: messege is
comforting in thet it discloses thit some progress is
being made against the onerous conditions that were
first set down. It in also interesting to note that
92
Mr. Heshimoto of the Nippon Oil Co. her swekenrd to
the fact thet some provisions of the ner control law
are ecuslly burdensome to the Ja v nese companies, and
hes now joined with us in protesting against these
p rticuler fectures.
Sincc rely youre,
FLED
HD/ED
F/G

=== Page 212 === (confidence 0.92)
10
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RB
This telegram must be
AFFARS
12
closely paraphrased be-
A
13
fore beingcommunicated
FROM
to anyone. (B)
Tok yo
Deparnont of State
Dated April 13, 1935
Pcc'd 9:07 a. m.
Secrr tary of State
Washinrton.
82, hpr11 13, 6 p. m.
190
894.6363/1
pbasay's 76, Apr11 6, 6 .m
transnitting a
mn for tlard Vacuum.
Ce. he oil conversatione  led today and the
spec'al repr sontatives of the oil interest are leaving
Japan in the near future to cons 1t with their home
6
officue.
3
Two. Strictly confidential. Faced with the
daror of a definite break with the large oil intor sts,
FILED
the Ja, anese officials today gav, the spocial renre-
sont tives i st minut. promices of future fulfillment of
practically all the desiderata of the foreign oil interest.
This f et cannot howover be published either in Japan
or ahroad for fear of ultra pa'r'otic reaction which
mirht efeat the plans of the authorities to ameliorate
the requirements of the law. Details of the understanling
reached will be transmitted on tno 15th to Standard
Vacuum New York through the Department.
CSB

=== Page 213 === (confidence 0.92)
()
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RB
This telegram must be
closcly paraphrased be-
FROM
fore being communicated
to anyone. (A)
Tokye
aled April 15, 1935
20
Long dratauce teleshne
ccd 7 a. m.
cace t a littu to
my Sumdas
Secrotary of State
afrl 15, 1935
Raau
Washington.
5, apri1 16, 3 p. m.
Siundard Vacuum requests that a message of w ich the
894.6363/19
followi. is a paraphrase bo transni ted to Dundas,
Standa: Vacuum Oil Company, New Y rk.
"At a moetin hell on Anr'l ls we reached an
un lerota ling wit. the ofricial f the commerce Depart-
ment and the Foreign Office in ru ara to the future
194
busiucss of the Standard Vacuum Cil ompany an? the
Risin Sun Petroleum Company of whici. the following is a
outiine.
(a)
Cue. The 1935 gallonage will be granted as a
minimum to the Standard Vacuum a:d Rising Sun Companies.
16.
Two. The Government will t undertake at this
time to commit themselves in regar to the allocation
FILED
of the future natural increase cither to refiners or
1mnorters, increase will be divided fairly between
importers

=== Page 214 === (confidence 0.99)
R3
2-83, Apri1 15, 3 p. m. from
Tokyo
importers and refiners. after l035 a minimum of one-
third and probably more of the ni ural increase will
be included in the gasoline quotas ,iven to importers.
Probably more will be granted in 'he Chosen quota. The
question of fuel oil is subject to later discussion and
the present position in regard to kerosene is to be
granted.
(c)
Three. Three months including working stocks
will be the future stock keepin; recuirements. This
is to be arranged as soon as pos  ble but in any case
not later than October 1st next. Until that change is
mado and our position legalized no cxpenditures will
be reguired for stock keeping.
(d)
Four. Costs will be used as the basis for domestic
prices and the Department of Connerce will sanction an
increase if the present price is shown to be unremunerative.
In any case the companies will not e obliged to sell at
a loss.
(e)
Five. No discrimination will be practiced againat
our companies.
(5)
Six. No guarantee of the above can be iven for
any definite period but the officials undertake not to
render

=== Page 215 === (confidence 0.99)
RB
3-83, Apr11 15, 3 p. m. from Tokyo
render unprofitable any expenditures incurred.
The above understanding is covered by an unsigned
memorandum and the Embassy will cn eavor to have the
Foreln Office confirm the understanding immediately. Ve
have becn assured verbally by the officials that they
are most anxious that all uncertainties be removed. Vith
reference to three above the present six months stock
keeping obligations is imposed by an imperial ordinance
which the Commerce Department wishes to alter but this
will require approval of other ministries. We believe
that thc alteration will be male, proiably by an amend-
ment.
The status in which we have left the matter is that
as soon as the law has been altered we will then decide
whether the expenditure on additional storage to cover
three months stock keeping obligation is justified by the
changed position. Although the otject of the law remains
the same the officials have not exerted pressure on us to
force us to refine in Japan. Ve have agreed with the
Japanese officials that nothing shall be announced in the
press at this time. Inform the Texas Company of the above.
The British Embassy

=== Page 216 === (confidence 0.98)
RB
4-83, Apri1 15, 3 p. m. from Tokyo
The British Embassy is telegraphing, Agnew on Godber's
behalf. Godber sailed on the 13th and will wait in
New York until our arrival about .ay 7. Walden Parker."
GRW
WSB

=== Page 217 === (confidence 0.98)
194.
April 15, 1955.
My dear Mr. Dumdas:
As mas erally made kmowm to you this aftermoom by
894.6363/194
meams of e leng distance telephone call, the Department
has ressived from the Amerioan Embassy at Tokyo a tele-
srem méer date April 15, 3 p.m., to the effect that the
Stamdard-Vaeuum Oil Company requests that there be trans-
mitted to you a message which reads substantially as
follows:
We reached on April 13, at a meeting with
officials of the Foreign Office and the Commeroe
Department, an understanding relative to the
future busimess of the Rising Sun Petroleum and
the Stamdard-Vacuum Oil Companies, an outline of
which is as follows:
(a) There will be granted to the Rising
Sum and to the Standard-Vacum Companies as a
minimum the 1935 gallonage.
(b) At this time the Government will not
commit itselr with regard to the allocation,
either to importers or to refiners, of the
future normal increase. Between refiners and
importers the inorease will be fairly divided.
There will, after 1935, be inoluded in the gaso-
line quotas given to importers a minimum of
one-third
Mr. H. Dundas,
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.

=== Page 218 === (confidence 0.94)
-2 -
m-thind and prebahly mare ef the menmal in-
srease. With rogard to the Chesen quete pret-
ably more will be granted. The pressnt pesitien
In zegard to kbareeeme is te be grented and the
questiem ef fuel eil is subjeet to later dissus-
stem.
(e) The future stook keeping requirements
will be three menths ineluding working steeks.
As seem as pessible this will be arranged but in
amy eveat met later than the first of mert Cste-
ber. No expemditures for stosk kseping will be
reqaired watil this ohange is made and our posi-
tiem is logalimed.
(d) As a basis for domestic prices, costs
will be used and if the existing priee is shomm
to be waremanerative an increase will be sano-
tiomed by the Department of Commeroe. The
compamies will mot be foroed to sell at a loss in
any event.
(e) Against our compamies there will be
practiced mo disorimination.
(f) Although there can be given no guarantee
of the above for any specifie peried, the offieials
umdertake mot to cause to be umprofitable any ex-
pemditures whioh may be inourred.
An umsigned memorandum covers the above
understanding and an attempt will be made by the
Embassy to have the understanding confirmed at
once by the Foreign Orrice. The officials have
assured us orally of their earnest desire that
all uncertainties be removed. With reference to
1tem (o) above, the existing stock keeping re-
quirement of six months is preseribed by an
Imperial ordinance which the Commeree Department
desires to change but this would necasmitate ap-
proval by other ministries. In our opinion the
change, probably by an amendment, wili be made.
The position in which the matter has been
left by us is that we will decide, as soon as
the law has been changed, whether the altered
position justifies the expenditure for addi-
tional storage to comply with the three months
stook

=== Page 219 === (confidence 0.93)
-3-
to foeee ms to rotine in Japan although the
objest of the law remeine wmehangsd. It has
boen agreed between we and the Japemese officials
Oa bekelf of Godber, the British Embassy is
telegraphing Agaew. On the 13th Godber sailed
and he will await our arrival in New York about
the 7th of May. Walden Parker.
simoerely yours,
For the Seeretary of State:
Stanley K. Bornbeok,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
RAY
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
4/15/35

=== Page 220 === (confidence 0.93)
DCR
NLFE
ROOM 1411
206
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
Division of
1955
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
April 16, 1975.
AFR 17 1935
Department gf State
FE €94.6363/194
Lr. Stanlay K. Hornbeck, Chip,
Divislon of Far East-rn Affairs,
Depertnent of State,
nashington, D.C.
894.6363/1
Dear Dr. Hornteck:
I :m uch ol li yed to you 1or your latter of
April l5th relative to the nesege which has been rec-ived
by you from tho Anerican Embesy t Tokio. o ell here
feel that the cutcome so far hs bean vory satief-ctor.
I an inforned by crble advice that dessrs.
Welden and Parker ere Leaving Jepen this weex for San
Francisco, which will tring then into New York sone time
C
during the secona woek of may. As soon fter that time
5
es possible we vill t ke the occasion of cavi in ou more
rully of thr n gotiatlons that have tai en place, ind in
which 1 fel are you will be keenl in restd.
Ag in tirunkin: ou for your ssistnea nd
coop ration,
Yours cincar l,
t. Vindas
HD/LL
F/F
G

=== Page 221 === (confidence 0.91)
7E
EMBASSY OF THE
(aca)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, April 5, 1935.
No. 1227.
Subject:
American Oil Interests in Japan.
PM RECO
205
24 1930
Dapartsbant or state
EP
894.6363/196
94.4263
or D-r..
Gnde!
For
In lSA
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
FLED
189
No. 1207, dated March 22, 1935, and to previous corres-
pondence, written and telegraphic, in regard to the diffi-
culties being experienced by foreign oil interests in
F/FG
Japan under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report that
there have been no developments of consequence during the
past two weeks.
Conversations.
The special representatives of the Standard-Vacuum
and

=== Page 222 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
and Shell oil interests returned to Japan on April 2, 1935,
to resume their conversations with the Japanesc officials
in regard to the position of the foreign oil interests in
Japan. The first conve sation was scheduled to take place
on April 4, but due to the illness of the Vice Minister
of Commerce and Industry, was postponed until today (April
5). The special representative of the Shell interests must
leave Japan on April 13, while the special representatives
of the Standard-Vacuum interests wish to leave Japan on or
about April 16; consequently they are asking the Japanese
officials to push the conferences to a conclusion.
Attitude of the Foreign Oil Interests.
As gathered from conferences with the special representa-
tives of the forcign oil interests, they arc determined not
to invest further funds in Japan under the present circum-
stances. If therefore, the Japanese insist upon the carry-
ing out of the obligation to keep six months' stocks (which
would require the investment of large sums for tanks and oil),
the foreign oil companies will probably propose, as a tempo-
rary expedient, to cut their sales quotas to half or less,
in order to build up six months' stocks, based on the re-
duced quotas. This amount of oil could be carried with their
present storage facilities. But as the foreign oil companies
are selling about 46 per cent of the gasoline sold in Japan
today, the sudden reduction of their sales would create a
gasoline shortage, which would probably cause considerable
disturbance among the gasoline consumers and might precipate
an

=== Page 223 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
an alteration in the regulations. At the same time, the
special representatives of the oil interests will inform
the Japanese officials that they will return to their head-
quarters to consult with their directors regarding the ad-
visability of closing out their Japan trade entirely. It
is hoped that this more aggressive attitude on the part of
the foreign oil interests will bring about a reconsidera-
tion of the law by the Japanese.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 224 === (confidence 0.97)
Inited States Senate
Apr1l 26 1935
FAR EASTERNAFFAIRS
1935
4.6313
APR 23 1935
TAPT SECRETARY
APR
DO
WASHINGTON
TMENT OF STATE
894.6363/197
the communication herewith submitted warrants,
and for a report thereon, to accompany return
of inclosure.
By direction of
U. S. S
3470
APR 27 1935
FILED

=== Page 225 === (confidence 0.96)
W. A. WILLIAMS
Consulting Petroleum and Mining Engineer
2518 Prospeot
Houston, Texas.
Apr11 13th, 1935.
Senator Tom Connally
Washington, D. C.
Dear Sir:-
I notice from press reports that Japan
intends to require American oil companies doing business in
89
Japan to maintain a six months supply of oil or a specified
minimum amount, in storage at all times. I presume they are
4.6
desirous of having a stock of oil on hand as a means of
preparedness in case of war.
36
On the other hand, we should have a
supply of silk on hand in this country for the same purpose
0.
and for a similar period. Would it not be just as logical
11
to require Japanese companies doing a silk business in the
U S A, to carry in stock a large quantity of silk? While
L6
this may be logical, there may be some practical objection
with which I am not familiar.
Yours very truly,
W A WILLIAMS

=== Page 226 === (confidence 0.87)
Apr21 26 20ss.
d mater Cmally:
I refer to a letter, dated April 18, 19ss, which ym
heve ressived from Mr. W. A. Williams, of Houston, Termm,
.6363/
and which you have referred to this Departmont for eem-
sideratiem. Mr. willimms states that he has meted frem
press reperts that Amerieem oil cempemies doins busimese
6
7
im Japan will be required to mintain in sterage at all
times a six msnths' supply of oil or a speciried minimm
wust, and he suggests that the United states should
similarly require Japanese engaged in the silk trade im
the Uaited states to carry in stosk a large quantity ef
the fereig ell es d in ise is
Supen have mder diseusslon with the Japemese Gevesmmes
the questiom of possible medificatien of the low requir
fn all ell csmserme, whether Japenese or fereign, Getng
  o     It

=== Page 227 === (confidence 0.86)
balloved that it would not be aopprepotate 
 to nt further in regerd to the l
tm in Jupem or to dissass the suggestien put fo
ward by Mr. willisms on the basis of that sitwation.
Im eempliamse with your request ir. williamet letter
to you is returned herewith.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Eaelessre:
To Semater Cemnally, by
A  opy of
utine
..pe
/DLY

=== Page 228 === (confidence 0.95)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.636
894.00 P.R./87
Despat ch /1208
SEE
FOR
FROM
Jepan
Grew
) DATED
r.19.1935
xd11
NAME
1-1127
6
8
REGARDING:
The Jupanese Pet ro leum Industry Law:Status of
conversat ions be t een officisls of Jpese
Fo reign Office and special representatives of
foreign  il interests. Convers ions were sus-
pended on Feb.28, 193),at request f Japanese
officils.action talen by mbassy in conjunction
with British kmbassader in mexing infornal oral
representations to Jpanese G vernaent.
r'p6

=== Page 229 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
conversations be suspended for a few weeks, principally
because of the danger of internal political embarrassment
should any action be taken before the close of the Diet
session toward altering the oil regulations.* The
representatives of the oil companies acceded to this
request, realizing that the negotiations were not progressing
successfully and believing that no concessions would be
made by the Japanese as long as the Diet was in seosion.
Accordingly, they arranged to leave Japan on larch 2 and
to return on April 1 if the Japanese officials should
still be desirous at the latter date of continuing the
conversations.
(c)
Discrimination in the Application of the
"Manchukuoan" Customs Tariff against American
and British .erosene in Favor of Japanese
Light Oil.
Under the authorization contained in the Department's
telegram No. 20 of February 15, the Embassy joined with
the British Eibassy on February 19 in making informal,
oral representations to the Japanese Government on the
discriminatory duties levied by the customs of "Manchukuo"
on American and British kerosene as opposed to Japanese
"light oil".** In making these representations, Mr.
Dickover of this Embassy and  r. Sansom of the British
Embassy invited Mr. Kurusu's attention to the fact that
on December 19 the American and British Consuls General
at Mukden had made informal representations to the
"Manchukuoan" authorities on the same subject.
The
representatives of the two Embassies further statcd that
the "Manchukuoan" authorities had failed to eliminatc
the discrimination and expressed the hope that the
Japanese
Embassy's telegram No. 28 of February 8 and despatch
No. 1193 of March 8, 1935.
**
Embassy's telegrams No. 29 of February 9, No. 31,
February 15, and No. 34, February 19.

=== Page 230 === (confidence 0.97)
-4 -
Japanesc Government might see its way to use its good
offices with the Manchurian authorities to the end that
the situation might be remedied. *

=== Page 231 === (confidence 0.89)
1
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
(ncm)
Tokyo, April 19, 1935.
No. 1255.
Subject: American Oil Int-rests in Jipan.
Cofy sur a
89463
Smdm
Division of
ke.6 35
C
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
neu
C
2
Y-43
AMAY 6- 1935
( 1226
Department of State
894.6363/1
For Distribution-Check
Grade
For
To field
Yes
In U.8.A.
No
99
of  204  D. Dept
B e
The Honorable
The Secretary of tate,
hashington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refor to the mb ssy's aos i tch
170
No. 1227
dated pril 5, 15, :nu to previous correspondence
interests in Japan under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to
report that, as a result of long negotiations une  teady
pressure, un uneerstanding has been re ched which will re-
lieve the oil interests trom their anxieties for the present
at least.
F/1
Conversations.
/FG.

=== Page 232 === (confidence 0.89)
一  -
Conversations.
In the strictly conridential section et the end of
the Embassy's aespatch No. 1193, of marcn 3, 1. 5, it was
stated that the mbassy was not :s essimistic  were the
special re resent: tive.  th oil int r rts . it. reg: rd
to the utcom o thee converr trt the Jre
aut orities, bec  e,  on oth r re: ns, "it is ot in
unususl proe re for J   ot tor to ive the
 earmee or Lre
scinit
the other side is oboure te, when t will sue only s ift
their pos ti  r ke the e nee i ms n carrery lor un
agrement". he Jeot rese ofrteiuls e nuuetet t oir
negotintionr it the il nter ts x e ly Lon the
L'ns naicated :tove, r de a lrt-t pift
which resulted in c vorlin tpreement.
As reported in the  ub: sy's s ttch Jo. 1:. 7, the
s ecial re resentativer o the im pict. nd Dritish oil
interests eturned to J: un in   rly April  d the con-
versations with the Jaotnese official: Were res med on
April 5, lo55. The o fici: 1s suprestou toct, if the
foreign oil co  ni  folt t  t they coulo ot com ly
wit. the law recuirin the to holu si  onths' stocks,
while the Japanese refiners consented to the carrying of
the stocks, the oil men in Ju an coulu bo uiviced into two
camps - - the law breakers cna the law observers. The
Japanese Government woula naturally have to give some
compensation to the l: w observers, anu this it was pro-
posed to do by granting thein larger quotas ana the bulk
or

=== Page 233 === (confidence 0.87)
一  -
or all of the natural increase in cenlt.c. Th: foreign
comp nies, hovever, could not gree to a onition where
they would b perostual 1 vw-br kerr :no incisted thet
the law shoale be : ltore  or
1ri
tor
s me ti , e on April ll tn e vere tione re m c
tically broken or oy the s o nese ciee, the of icials
sttin tt they het..Cobr, the
re rese tative o. the fhell int r ste,
auo to le ve
J: in on April l.
Vith m tters in t i. :t te, it was decided to oring
tll possiple resare to b r on the J:  ce  t ori i s
in tn atteot to ineuo tom to P e t asr nces ich
woultron or the osit:on or th forein sil com  nies less
aif icult. n the evenin or April il r. Goold,  e:1
-unt r for : on or the St derd-V: eun oil Como y :t-
tendeu  din er siven y r. Hirota for the American Lconoric
mission. Aftor th dmer ir. Hirota himself brot ched the
subject of the oil liw in a c nvers tion vith r. Goold,
who too tdv nt go of th sccusion to lty the ccse or the
foreign oil interests before r. ir ta. The conversution
lasted for s me time, and r. Goold resented his cuse in
no uncertain terms. r. Hirota se med very much inter sted.
The British Ambecsador had an informal tulk on the subject
with the minister for Forei n Affairs on Anril 1i, nd on
the same day ir. W. Cameron Forbes, the Chairman of the
American Economic Mission then in Tokyo, (whose assistance
had been solicited by the American cil interests) ciscussed
the oil question for two hours with officials of the inistry
o

=== Page 234 === (confidence 0.89)
- 4 -
Commerce and Industry. Mir. Forbes insisted tht the Japa-
nese plen of forc ne the oil industry to carry six months'
stocks in storage was ine itable  nd not c rmerciclly
feasible nd, ir eniorced, oulu c use the therval
Trom Jeoan or the Amerien oil int r t uc oulu  -
stroy on or t ole eet o our td r  ti hi ith
Jo an, the rmot on or  ich it   th ur ore of r.
Forbes' miscion t foster. On the s me ( . Forbes
tde rormal courtesy e li   . rnee Cie bu.
Ifter exc un ing the usu1 : ities, r. Forbes uiscu: ned
the sil uestio. with the r nce, at t'n th t bis irri n
 e t foster trt de r l: ti ne beteen en nd the united
Ct:tes tne that he ws ve: tly d rtresred to 1  rn that the
American oil ntorrets oul hov t it aw on a: oan
unless the lew c ula po o iiec. on the erternoon of April
1 r. Sunson, or the pritish mb  y, st -r. Kurusu,
Chief of the Bure u of Commerci: 1 Lf : irs o the Forcign
Office and 1 id before him five poi ts uoon thich the
British oil int rests ishec definite :scurances, in orcer
that they mi ht continue in business in Jr oan. These oints
…rc:
1. 1955 allon: ge us a minimun or future uot's.
i. Thougu the Government will not cive : definite
undertahing to either inporters or pef ners for
the a location of the natural incre: se, they will
divide it fairly between refiners tnd importers.
3. Will the cuthorities promise to reduce the stock-
holaing coumitments to & months (including working
stocks) and leg lize that osition?
4。

=== Page 235 === (confidence 0.89)
- 5 -
4. mey it be unuerstood that comestic prices will
be bar eu on costs  ne it orices ar suoun to be
unremun.r tive the Com  rc. Depertment will sanc-
tion n iner  re?
t. Inorl t  b ho iseri in:nst
t orec.
r. turusu  : un: ble to pive defini e :nswors to all
i the ore or lr, ou poi. tlt the Viee i t:r
for Commerce tno Thuue try t puee  no to meet th s cial
represe t: tives oi the oil interests t :m. on Aoril
13, to give hi: r lis.
on the mornine of Ioril ls r. iorino, the Vice
nister for Com no ?  try, r. urusu, ith
sever 1 or their suboroin te or tei L., : t th r cic1
and local re resent: tives or th oroi n il intorcsts
and  ve the u rinite, unli i d t irm tive r li  to
the five points, in a iti n trurin them that they would
not be exnected to incur uny ex encitures for stock- ping
unt the law hed bee ch n co to rovid for three n nths!
stock-kecpint inste d of the resent six lonths', pne, more-
over, thet my ex enditure  hicn i ht be netr ed in the
future woula not be renuereo unororitable throu: h the
operation of the lau. The representatives of the foreign
oil interests vere s:tisfiec vith these assurances nd the
convers tions ended. In outline of the understanaing
1/
reccheu was then drawn up by the oil int erests (copy enclosed)
and on April 16, at the request of the American oil interests,
Mr. Neville of this Embassy took this to Mr. Kurusu to encuire
concerning

=== Page 236 === (confidence 0.86)
- 6 -
concerning its authenticity. r. Kurusu confirmed it as in
general the underst noin: re ched. A menorendum o? the
conversation b-twcen r. Neville nd r. Kurusu is en-
closea.
It se me rob ole tn t, tho mt un e v  tis,
-r. Yoshino e . Kurusu re io th o  n the oil
com unies tno ishee to r nt uch e ner no  mld
Penor trit
1,re
th th tispeu intr puo nte that enre-
sions rt be rnten lt e toleu   ill-
consider e ne . t b.: itered. Th
t1: Lr 0 to
wo r con the oroin ener by potr et  oti tions
au to tte t to ot or 1a burour oral
assur nces, in or r to  v ic th orribility or b ing
 ceusea of yieie tri.n ure. en  beeume
convin eu, on i ril 1, o. vor, t t tn orero oil in-
terests ere not ubu ing nu : ct ally voule ithorew
from Japn ri ther then tavest the L: rge suns recuired for
carrying six months' svou's in ptor ge, they nt ce th. lt st-
minute chift waich resrlteo in th uneerst neing.
It in obvioue, no ever, tht th um  stein e not
be me de ublic. If it shoule bee me noin to th: ro cti n ry
element in Je pan thet the Japunese Govermment hao surr noered
to ford n prescure, not only oul t lives or th oicials
involved be e dangered, put th ir 1 n: for ectin the
necessary :lterations in th. petroleum r ul: tions oula be
defcated. Nothing, therefore, will be publisheo of the re-
sults or the conferenees, tne the ne..sn pers have becn told
only that the conversations have close tne the special
representatives of the oil interests are r turning home to
consult

=== Page 237 === (confidence 0.96)
- 7 -
consult with their home of ices. Such alterations as are ne-
cessary in the law aná regulations vill be made quietly,
probably by amenaments, ana ill be mde on the strength
of a joint petition from the Japanese refiners and the
foreign importers, in oruer that the pressure will os-
tensibly come from the domestic r: ther than the foreign
interests. This petition is now being prepared.
Present Position of the Foreign Oil Companies.
Under the present regulations, the oil firms are sup-
posed to have three months' stock: in storage by April 1,
1935, and six months' stocks by Uct ber 1, l5. By in-
cluain all oil in Jcpan, in v. atever containers it may
have been, and all cargoes  float nd en route to Japan
on April 1, us part of th. stock, the foreign oil comptnies
were able to be considereu as within the letter o? the law
on April 1. .s they camot by ny subtcrfuge fulfill the
letter of the law on ctober 1, u9w ver, they will become
law-breakers then unless the 1 is cht gee before thet cate.
This the oiPici: Is have re is d to do. In the m tntime
the compunies  ill not be compellec to invest any further
sums in Japan for stock-holoin urposes. If and when the
regulations ur ch nged to provide or only three months!
stock-kee in, the forei oil con  nies ill have to invest
several million yen to rovide the necessary tunkage for the
oil (at oresent the oil comanies h've storege cilities
for only about tno onths' stocks) but they cre villin: to
undertake this actitional ex enciture under the assurances
that they will be given a retson ble shere in the future in-
crease of the trade tnd that ti ir investn nt ill not be
1nc ered

=== Page 238 === (confidence 0.94)
- 8 -
rendered unprofitable through gover mental action.
It only remains to be seen whether the Ja anese officials
will fulfill the snirit of the assurances :hich they have
given to the foreign oil interests, or vhether they will
endeavor to whittle down the c ncessions Which they made under
prssure.
There is tlso enclosed  memorandum of y conversation
3
of April 14, l 5, with the British Ambass: cor, in r  ru to
the information which he had iven me to the effect that the
Anglo-Dutch oil companies believeu that the C:lifornia oil
companies might be repareu to unite   th the uritish com-
anies in refusine to su) ly crude cil to J n. The Depart-
ent, in its tele uphic nstruction o. 61, ril 1, .m.,
stateu th:t it hed receiveu similar infor ttion from the
pritish Ambars cor in vash ugton, sut thtt it underst od that
the proposal to rfuse s l   cruue oil licc ouly to
the menchuria Oil Compy ny. Sir mobert livels cant rateacing
was that it : lid to J: n  :hole.
Res: ctrully ours,
Jos ph C. Grew.
Lnclosures:
Copy of uutlin: or understi puing.
memoramuu. of Convers:tion, P. Noville ind
r. Kurusu, April 10,  5.
elmorncum of Conversation, the American und ritish
Ambes cors, A ril 1, 5.
4
JM
860.5
ERD:r

=== Page 239 === (confidence 0.94)
F closure No 
to dosnah
N253 019.1935..
Eubaasy at Tokvo?
The following is an outline of the understanding
reached with the Shokosho officials in connection with the
future business of the Standurd-V cuum Oil Company and the
Rising Sun Petroleum Company at : meeting hel: on April 13,
1985:
Ansi.er of
The Como: niest Jne rst: ue ng.
the Pricit 1s.
1.
The Standard-V: cuum Oil Com ny nd
the n sing Sun Petroleum Cormeny will
be ranted :s  minimum their 1055
Yes.
C.ilon: ge.
The Government will make no co sit-
ment at tnis time to cither Imoorters
or nefiners for the allocttion of the
future natural increase out it will be
divided ftirly between R finers und
Im orters. Cuotas of soline to im-
porters after l.ao will incluce a imi
mum of 3o 1/8 p cent but  b bly
more of th natur:1 inereuse. Chocen
ossibly better. Merosene, resent
osition to be grtnted. Fuel oil to
Yes.
be aiscussed.
6
Stock-keeping obligutions will be
three months, incluaing working
stocks. To be arranged as soon .s
ossible but not luter than October 1,
1985. No expenaiture to be incurred
for stock-k ening until change made and
Yes.
osition leglized.
4.
Domestic prices to be b: sed on costs
and if resent orice is shown to be
unremunerctive the Shokosho vill sune-
tion in increase ino vill not oblige
Yes.
the Comp:nies to sell at a loss.
5.
There vill be no discrimin:tion
Yes.
against these Companies.
Cannot give guarantee of the above for a definite
period, but any expenditure incurred will not be
rendered unprofitable.

=== Page 240 === (confidence 0.93)
Those present at the meeting on April 1s, 1955, were:
Mr. Yoshino, Vice ainister for Commerce and Industry;
Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bur au of Commercial Affairs,
Foreien office; r. nojima ne r. S: kai of the Len rt-
ment of Commere no Ineustry; r. Hogetsu of the
Foreign Ofrice; r.  u, r. Prker, mr. Goold and
Mr. Meyer or the St: nc: rd-V cum Oil Como: ny; eno ur.
Gouber and r. male lm of the tising Sun troleum
Comany.

=== Page 241 === (confidence 0.93)
Frclosure No  to despatch
Nt23 ofi pire 19./9 3trom the
Embasay at Tokyo.
MHMORANDUM
April 16, 1955.
Conversation.
Mr. Neville and ir. Kurusu,
Chief of the Comncrci:1 Bureau
of the Forei n Office.
Jil
I called on Mr. Kurusu t :0. .m. I told him that
the  mbensy hd r c ived : m morn um coverin the meeting
which the oil men ht d helc itn o. ici Is of the J:  nese
Governnent on April la. I h nueu  m copy of it eno usked
him Whether it correctly . et forth the une rst: ne ing of the
meeting. he read it over une s i tht in ren ral it se med
correct, but be oule like to  k pom obe rv tions, which
he aie us follovs:
Item : . I
He coul  ctll no t tement in d to
Choren, lthough ther  have been one
iIter ho I ft; Chosen, tovever, is : subject
tat  ulc h ve to ie conrid red in connection
wite the T  ususho,  nd he oulo prefor not to
touch it, or tn r scnt t leust.
Item S. The law recuires three months' supoly in Japan.
Assuming th t the American company has three
months' sunply on hand, no accitional expen-
viture will be ctlled for on thi: account
before Uctob'r 1. No one cen comnit the
Covernment b:yona that aate ithout an a1-
teration of the oresent hegulations, und al-
teration cannot be ef ected vithout an Imperial
Ordin:nce (Chokurei). The final decision on
this point will be reched as soon as possible.
(A joint petition from all the oil companies
would greatly assist in ret ching a decision.)
* lepr r annas affairs.
E L N

=== Page 242 === (confidence 0.94)
rflu3o despatoh
1:1253 8.a pue 19.193 5om the
Embasey at Tokyo.
C O PY
MEMORANDUM
April 14, 1935.
With reference to the second parugraph of the
Department's telegran No. 61, April 1:, 6 .n., I took
occasion today to ask the British Aabass dor whether
the information he had given me t fev days go to the
effect that the Anglo-Dutch oil comp:nies believed that
the California compenies ight be prepared to unite
with the British com cnies in r fusin to. provide crude
oil sup lies referred to Janon or only to the nc uria
Oil Company. Sir Hobert Clive re lied that it was his
understanding that it a plied to Jupan as a Whole but that
the situation had s bse uently ben cltered by the last
meeting of the repr seatatives of the oil compunies ith the
va tnese tuthorities in w ich iicicttion haa b en given
that the principal desider te of the oil colpanies in
J: pen would be ranted.
J C G

=== Page 243 === (confidence 0.90)
May 20 1935.
y Geer r. Teagle:
I have read with pleasure your letter of May 9, 19s5,
89
expressing appreciation of the assistance rendered to rep-
Pesentatives of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company by offieers
.6363/200
 the Department and of the Embassy in Tokyo, in the nego»
tlations with Japanese authorities coneerning the comtrol
of petroleum products in Japan and Manohuria.
It is gratifying to me that agenoies of the Gevernment
have been able to render this assistance to American
imterests abroad, and I appreciate your kind words of
pe at Tokyo for the information of the Ambesedor and
his staff.
sineerely yours,
Cordell Hulf
thei
W. C. Teagle,
cstealer Plase,
youtin
W
m.m

=== Page 244 === (confidence 0.93)
May 20 1935
768
The Honerable
Joseph C. Grew,
American Ambassador,
Tokyo.
894.6363/200
Sir:
It gives me pleasure to transmit herewith a copy of
a letter from Mr. W. C. Teagle of the Standard-Vacum Oil
Company wherein appreciation is expressed of the services
rendered by the Kmbassy in the negotiations with the
Japanese authorities concerning the control of petroleum
produets in Japan and Manchuria.
The Department likewise desires to express commenda-
tion of the manner in which you and members of your staff
have assisted in the conduct of these negotiations.
Very truly yours,
note
For the Secretary of State:
124.943
William Phillips
elesure:
r. W.C. Teagle,
9,1936.
A true copy of
the signt origi-
906.6563/200
MaY It
2
m.mH.
JZuw

=== Page 245 === (confidence 0.97)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
394.6363/20
SEE..894C.6363/15
FOR Despatch #-. to Embassy at Tokyo.
FROM ....Dairon
(Grumon) DATED May 18, 1936.
TO
NAME
1-1127
Report of Boycott of Japan and "Manchukuo" by Foroign Cil Firms.
REGARDING:
FRG.

=== Page 246 === (confidence 0.93)
Copy for Department
AMERICAN CONLULAR SERVICE
American Consulate, Dairen, Mmchuria, May 18, 1935.
SUBJECT:
Rsport of Boyoott of Japan and
"Mamohukuo" by Foru1gn U1l Pirms.
The Honorable
Jommph c. Grew,
Amr oan mbassedor,
Tokyo, Japan.
S1r:
I have the honor to report that a  okutsu des-
patoh from Tokyo prnted in the u u I. i.Y Ns
last night stated that british md American o1l firas
are planming a joint boyoott of oil anipments to lan-
churia and Japan. The report was said to emamate
from "a reliable souroe abroad."
aocordin to the
Kokutsu despatoh the voycott mentioned would entirely
ban exports of orude and refined oils fro erion
and British omed sources. The support of the
Amrican and British govorn nts was said to have
boen solioited.
The MalllU NIrro of the same date stateù that the
Amiatio Petroloum company has transferred all of its
busimess rights in Dairen, aoquirod durint the pest 30
years, to the Rising Jum Petroloum Company, a Japaness
mmbsidiary of the Royal Dutoh Shell. It is said that
the mew bremee will depend from the Yokohame office,
ad that the mew mmager will be Mr. C. . Hott of that
etriss. the prineiple hamge will apparently be the

=== Page 247 === (confidence 0.92)
mabstitution of Japmese ofrie workers and saleamen for
Chiness, who are gemerally employed by the miatio Petro-
loum organisation.
Considerable space has been devoted in the Japanese
and gliah press here urin the past few days to re-
ports that the Dairen offioes of the foreign oil compamtes
would be withdram. as far as the onsulate 1s aware no
such drastio action is contemplated.
In conmeotion with the above ruaor and with reporta
of a wnited front among the foreign oil companies to
boyoott the oil monopoly, the fallowing statemmat of the
mmmeger of the Dairen branoh of the oviet Prade Repre-
ntation, Mr. L. Kagan, will be of interest of the Enbassy:
"soviet oil businss in Dairen and the
Kwantung distriet will oontinue inderinitely
evem after the "Mmmohukuo" oil monopoly is ex-
tended here. o long as we can get prioes for
our products whioh are satisfactory fron our view
point soviet oils will b imported and sold here
monopoly or no monopoly. The ourrent market
priees for our products in the Dairen area are
satisfactory. o started oil busimess here years
after other forvign firas wore ustablished in the
city. But we gainwd a foothold, and are selling
more oils now than  did last apring. (ur
beaviest oil business is in autum and winter, when
nights are long, more kerosene are consumed md re-
tailers are storing up several months' supply. to
antiolpate a stailar boom in our oil sale by the
coming autum. The present is a slack season in
the business.
"Hogarding the prospeot of continuing our
oll business in Manchoukuo, I cannot speak authori-
tativaly, but I believe they will be continued.
Lesally speaking. even if other foreign oil firms
retire fros this eity, our oil business will stey
hore."
mespeotfully yours,
staart E. Gromom,
Ameriom Conul.
8es.6
520:2
ue c
-a.m.h

=== Page 248 === (confidence 0.94)
Two oopies to Department.
Copy to Logation, Peiping.
Copy to Commulate Gemeral, Tokyo.
Copy to Consulate Gemeral, akden.
Copy to Consulate Coneral, Harbin.

=== Page 249 === (confidence 0.96)
so Roskefeller Plase
New York
G. TEAGIE
9th May 1985.
My dear Mr. Seeretary:
Mesars. G. S. Walden and P. W. Parker, Chairman of
the Board and President, respeetively, of the Standard-
Vaeumm Oil Company, have just returned from Japan, where
thay have been negotiating with the Japanese authorities
in respect to the application of the Petroleum Industry
Control Law and also the oil monopoly recently created
im Manehukuo. These gentlemen have expressed to me their
them by the Ameriean Ambassador, His Exeelleney Joseph C.
Grew, Mr. Edwin L. Neville, Counselor and Mr. E. R. Diekever.
Pirst Sesretary. The obstacles encountered, partioularly
im eonnestion with the situation in Japan, were very greatly
ameliorated by the close co-oporation extended them by the
Mabassy, and it is felt that without such assistance the
results obtained would have been far less satisfactory.
May I also personally extend to you, as well as
Dr. Stanley K. Hormbeek and Mr. R. C. Mackay, my grateful
askmowledgment and appreeiation of the untiring efforts
and wise eounsel rendered us during the many months im
whieh these difricult negotiations were being conduoted.
Yours very truly,
W. C. TEAGLE.
The Honorable Cordell Full,
Beeretary of State,
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.

=== Page 250 === (confidence 0.97)
THE UNDER SECRE AL
DEPARTMENT OP STATE
DIVISION OFFAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
July 23, 1935.
LDS:
C 1 -11
ROM!
SHH
Tokyo's 1378 of June 28, 1935, in
rogard to American oil interests in Japan
states that a news item in a Japanese
paper, believed by the foreign oil interests
in Japan to be officially inspired with a
view to preparing the way for future conces-
sions by the Japanese authorities, states
that Japanese oil companies have been experi-
encing difficulty in complying with the
storage provisions of the Petroleum Industry
Low, but that they have now succeeded in com-
pleting the facilities for the storage of
three months' supplies of oil. Storage for
six months' supplies must be installed by
October 1, 1935.
The Embassy believes that the
authorities, who have found it difficult, in
the face of opposition from taxicab companies,
etc., to sanction an increase in gasoline
prices, are preparing the way for some mod-
ification of the storage requirements. The
foreign oil companies think that this will
consist of an indefinite postponement of the
time by which the companies must be prepared
to carry six months' stocks.
The Chosen Oil Company was formally
inaugurated on June 25 with a capitalization
of

=== Page 251 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
of yen 10,000,000 subscribed mostly by
large Japanese interests. Press reports
state that this Ccmpany is to monopolize the
refining and sale of oil in Korea, but
according to information obtained by the
foreign oil companies from Japanese
officials the new company is to do only
as much business as would have been done
by the Japanese oil companies subscribing
to the stock of the new company, plus a
part of the natural increase, while the
foreign oil companies will continue to
maintain their previous position in the
Korean business.
The eventual result of this scheme
will depend largely upon the success, or
otherwise, of the Japanese in restricting
the operations of foreign oil companies
in Japan Proper, and upon the outcome of
the experiment in oil monopolies in
Manchuria. It is rumored that if the
Manchuria monopoly should prove successful,
the monopoly principle may be extended to
the Japanese colonies and perhaps eventually
to Japan.
W
WTT/DLY
894.6363/202.

=== Page 252 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
(cm)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, June 28, 1935.
sl
No. 1378
subject:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN
odu in F E (281)
894.6363/202
(rad
For
Tofa
1USA
0
E
5
L1
C
L1J
R
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir:
FTTED
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1253, dated April 19, 1935, and to previous correspondence
in regard to the difficulties being experienced in Japan by the
foreign oil interests under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to
report the following recent developments in the situation.
F/B
On June 26, 1935, the JIJI SHIMPO published an article
giving the cost to the oil companies, Japanese and foreign, in
1935, of providing for and carrying six-months' stocks of oil
a around Yen 86,000,000. This figure is composed of the
following items: Cost of tanks and equipment, Yen 16,086,000;
Cost of oil. to be stored, Yen 57,552,000; Cost of land, Yen
3,331,000;

=== Page 253 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
3,331,000; Cost of interest, insurance, etc., Yen 8,892,000.
The figures, it is stated, were supplied by a large Japanese
oil company. The article proceeds to state that the Japanese
oil companies have been experiencing difriculty in obtaining
funds for the construction of equipment and the purchase of
the oil to be stored, but that they have succeeded now in
completing the facilities for the storage of three months:
supplies of oil. Storage for six months' supplies must be
installed by October 1, 1935.
It is presumed by the foreign oil interests in Japan that
the above was an inspired news item, issued to prepare the way
for some concession which will have to be made by the Japanese
officials in the not distant future to satiefy the demands of
the foreign oil companies and the desires of the Japanese oil
companies. It is obvious that the Japanese oil industry can-
not carry this heavy burden without some compensation. The
Japanese and foreign oil companies some time ago filed a joint
petition for permission to raise the price of gasoline. There
was immediate and strong opposition from the taxicab and other
commercial motor transport companies, accompanied with threats
of cessation of motor transport should the inorease in gasoline
price be granted. It is believed, therefore, that the authori-
ties , finding it dangerous to sanction an increase in the price
of gasoline, are preparing the way for some modification of the
storage requirements. What form this modification will take is
not yet known, but the foreign oil companies are of the opinion
that it will consist of an indefinite postponement of the second
three months' storage requirements. In other words, the authori-
ties will probably require the carrying of three months: stocks,
the

=== Page 254 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
the facilities for which were supposed to have been completed
by April 1, 1935, but will postpone indefinitely the time by
whieh the compenies must be propared to carry six monthst
stooks.
Korean Oil Company Organized.
On June 25, 1935, the Chosen Oil Company was formally
inaugurated. This company has its head offices at Seoul,
Chosen, and will establish a refinery at Gensan, on the
eastern coast of Korea. The capitalization is Yen 10,000,000,
of which the bulk has been subscribed by the Nippon Oil com-
pany, the Mitsui interests, the Sumitomo interests, the
Japan Mining Company, the Chosen Nitrogen Company, the Oriental
Development Company, and Chambers of Commerce in Chosen. It is
expected that Mr. Noguchi, the President of the Chosen Nitrogen
Company and one of the promoters of the new oil company, will
be president of the new company. Mr. Hashimoto, President of
the Nippon Oil Company, also was interested in the organization
of the new firm.
According to the JIJI SHIMPO of June 26, 1935, the new
oil company is to monopolize the refining and sale of oil
in Korea. According, however, to the information obtained by
the special representatives of the foreign oil companies in
their conversations with the Japanese officials in April last,
the new company is only to refine and sell as much oil as would
be sold by the Japanese oil companies subscribing to the stook
of the new company, plus a part of the natural increase. That
is, the Japanese oil companies were simply to transfer their
Korean business to the new refinery, while the foreign oil
companies were to continue to maintain their previous position in
the Korean business.
what

=== Page 255 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
What the eventual result will be cannot be predicted at
present, as much will undoubtedly depend upon the success or
lack of success of the Japanese in restricting the operations
of the foreign oil companies in Japan Proper, and upon the
outcome of the experiment in oil monopolies in Manchuria.
A rumor has been current for some time among petroleum circles
in Japan that the monopoly in Manchuria was in the nature of a
trial, and that if it should prove successful, the monopoly
principle would be extended to the Japanese colonies and per-
haps eventually to Japan. It is believed by some of the foreign
oil representatives that the establishment of the Chosen oil
Company is the first step toward the establishment of a monopoly
in Korea.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
863.6
ERD:f

=== Page 256 === (confidence 0.92)
11
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANGMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL OODE
Department of State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Washinglen,
July 17, 1935.
1935 JUL 17 PM 2 59
4pm
CC:
This.cable was sent in co dential 
TOKYO (Japan).
It h careluhy paraphrmed pelure
being comrau to anyone. 
.110793.94/7186
Your 151, July 16, 4 p. m., last paragraph, and
Department's 109, July 16, 8 p. m.
As/Standard-Vacuum/has indicated to Department continued
894.6363/202A
concern/with rogard to carrying out/by/Japanese authorities/
of/assuranoes/given/prally/in reference to /petroloum rogula-
tion/in Japan./Department/suggests that/in your disoretion/
you/ mention/thiaf subject/ in the course of/your rinal/talk
with the Foreign Minister.
phullift
aes
m.m.H
FE:RCM:REK
FE
CR
JU17,1935PM
2
mc
0
2
a
1-138

=== Page 257 === (confidence 0.95)
三
2
(()
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
CA
This telegram must be
closely paraphrased be- FRoM
fore being communicated
TOKIO
to anyone. (B)
Dated July 18, 1935.
Rec'd 5:35 a.m.
Secretary of State,
livicion ef
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Vashington.
A
14 1035
894.6363/203
152, Ju1y 18, 4 p.m.
Demartoment on Statr
Department's 110 July 17, 4 pom  petroleum regulat-
ions in Japan.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs told me this morning
that the matter has been dicussed in cabinet and is now
under consideration of Ministers of Commerce, Finance, War,
Navy and Foreign Affairs. He did not predict tne outcome.
Kurusu states that he is encountering opposition by
some of the Ministries to the desired modification of the
law but hc hopes to obtain before October lst a satisfact-
ory settlement by discrect pse of the compelling argument
that Japan is dependent on forcign oil.
GREW.
JS
F/G
FILED

=== Page 258 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 3, 1935.
I suggest that you read in full Tokyo's
brief despatch No. 1385 of July 10, 1935,
on the Japan oil situation.
It will be noted that the Vice Minister
of Commerce and Industry, with whom a re-
presentative of foreign oil interests
earlier this year discussed the situation,
is having difficulty in obtaining the
assent of other departments to the reduc-
tion of the oil storage requirements from
six months' supply to three months' supply.
There is now some talk of fixing the
storage requirements to four months' supply,
which, the Embassy believes, would be
acceptable to the foreign oil companies.
894.6363/204.
HADYDLY

=== Page 259 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
(RCm)
Tokyo, July 10, 1935.
No. 1385.
SUBJECT: AMBRICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
Eel
894.6363
(4)
A
roeus
894.6363/204
ECEVED
5
.O
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
FILED
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to this Embassy's despatch
202
No. 1378,dated June 28, 1935, and to previous corres-
pondence in regard to the difficulties being experienced
in Japan by the American and other foreign oil interests
under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report the fol-
lowing recent developments in the situation.
dated April 19, 1935, in the agreement arrived at between
the special representatives of the foreign oil interests
and

=== Page 260 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
and the Japanese officials on April 13, 1935, the following
clause was included:
Stock-keeping obligations will be three
months including working stocks. To be
arranged as soon as possible but not later
than 0ctober 1, 1935.
It now being well on in July, and the Japanese officials
having as yet made no announcement of their plans for al-
tering the oil storage regulations, the local representatives
of the foreign oil interests have been feeling some anxiety
in regard to the matter, especially as they must shortly
file with the Department of Commerce and Industry their
import, storage and business plans for 1936. A report
has, however, reached the Embassy from unofficial sources
to the effect that the Vice Minister for Commerce and In-
dustry has been discussing the question of the altering
of thestorage regulations with the Vice Ministers of the
other governmental departments concerned.
.Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, at first pro-
posed to the other Vice Ministers that the oil storage
requirements should be definitely and finally fixed at
three months' stocks, but this proposal did not meet the
approval of certain other Vice Ministers (presumably those
of the War and Navy Departments). Mr. Yoshino next pro-
posed, according to the report, that the foreign oil com-
panies shpuld be required to carry only three months' stocks,
while the Japanese oil companies should be required to carry
six months' stocks and that a subsidy should be given the
Japanese companies to compensate them for the additional
three months' stocks which they would have to carry. This
proposal

=== Page 261 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
This proposal also, it is understood, did not meet the
approval of some of the governmental departments. Mr.
Yoshino is now working on a plan to fix the oil storage
requirements definitely at four months' stocks for all
companies, foreign and Japanese, without subsidy. The
Embassy has not learned whether or not this plan is likely
to be acceptable to the other governmental departments
interested, but has reason to believe that it will be
acceptable to the foreign oil companies.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 262 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
August 17, 1935.
Tokyo's 1408 of July 25, 1935,
recounts recent developments in the oil
situation in Japan. No action is required.
Before leaving Tokyo the Ambassador
called on the Foreign Minister and Mr.
Kurusu and discussed the petroleum question.
Memoranda of conversations with these
gentlemen are appended. From these two
conversations it appears that the question
is not being allowed to die, and that the
Japanese officials are working slowly toward
a solution of the storage and price problems.
Two major difficulties which face them are
(1) the insistence of the military on the
conservation of large stocks of petroleum,
and (2) the necessity for "saving face" for
the Minister of Commerce and Industry who
sponsored the Petroleum Industry Law.
Mr. Hirota stated that the matter had
been discussed recently in the Cabinet
when it was arranged that a conference be
held between the Ministers of War, Navy,
Commerce, Finance and Foreign Affairs.
He stated that there were obviously divided
opinions on the subject but he hoped that
a favorable settlement could be reached in
due course. He did not, however, express
either optimism or pessimism as to the
result.
Mr. Kurusu

=== Page 263 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
Mr. Kurusu emphasized the divergent
viewpoint of the various interested
ministries. He stated that the whole
matter must be settled before October 1.
He did not commit himself as to the
probable result, but said that he was
doing his best. His principal card was
the fact that Japan had to have oil and
this factor ought to be sufficiently
strong to bring the conflicting interests
into line.
An informative article in regard to
the enforcement of the Petroleum Law
which appears to have been written by a
Japanese is appended to the despatch.
It may be read if time permits.
894.6363/205
WTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 264 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
(Rcm)
Tokyo, July 25, 1935.
No. 1408.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
ft
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
894.6363
Dreartinent of Stata
ERDS
35 A5 160
LSa
ON1
MID
894.6363/205
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
24
No. 1385,dated July 10, 1935, and to previous correspondence
in regard to the difficulties being experienced in Japan
by the American and other foreign oil interests under the
Petroleum Industry Law, and to report the following recent
developments in the situation.
F/FG.
Conversations with Japanese Officials.
In compliance with the Department's instruction No. l10,
July 17, 4 p.m., the Ambassador, before leaving Tokyo, took
advantage of his farewell call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs

=== Page 265 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Affairs on July 18, 1935, to bring up casually and in-
formally the question of tho present status of the American
petroleum interests in Japan and to ask the Minister's
opinion in regard to a favorable settlement of the question
along the lines of the tentative agreement reached last
April between the special representatives of the foreign
oil interests and the Japanese officials. The Minister
replied that the matter had been considered by the Cabinet
and that the Ministers of War, Navy, Finance, Commerce
and Foreign Affairs had been asked to confer in regard to
the question. A memorandum, dated July 18, 1935, of the
conversation between the Ambassador and the Minister for
1/
Foreign Affairs is enclosed herewith.
The Ambassador also called upon Mr. Saburo Kurusu, the
Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs, to say "au revoir
and brought up the petroleum question. Mr. Kurusu said that
he was working on the question and recounted in detail the
various difficulties being experienced in attempting to re-
concile the viewpoints of the various Ministries concerned.
He felt that his principal card in forcing a satisfactory
settlement would be the fact that Japan had to have foreign
oil. A memorandum, dated July 18, 1935, of the conversation
2
between the Ambassador and Mr. Kurusu is enclosed.
From these two conversations, it appears that the question
is not being allowed to die, as apparently was feared by the
American oil interests. The Japanese officials are working
slowly toward a solution of the stock-keeping and price
problems, but are faced with a number of difficulties,
foremost

=== Page 266 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
foremost among which are (1) the desire of the military
to conserve large stocks of petroleum and petroleum pro-
ducts in Japan, and (2) the necessity of "saving the face"
of the Minister for Commerce and Industry, who sponsored
the Petroleum Industry Law.
Mr. Kojiro Matsukata, the importer of Soviet gasoline
into Japan, stated on July 23, in a conversation with Mr.
Dickover, that the Japanese oil refiners are in a quandary
as to their future course of action. They have reccived
no answer to their petition for an increase in the price
of gasoline (a part of which was intended to cover the cost
of storing oil), and they do not know if they will be re-
quired to store six months' stocks of oil or less. They
are therefore reluctant to start the construction of tanks
and to make forward contracts for the supply of oil. The
Japanese oil companies are, as a result, also pressing the
Government for definite decisions on the various problems
connected with the oil question.
Newspaper Comnent.
A clipping from the OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI-NICHI,
English Edition, of July 18, 1935, on the subject of the
operation of the Petroleum Industry Law, written by P. D. Q.
3/
(real name unknown to the Embassy), is enclosed herewith.
This article points out that the foreign oil companies will
not store six months' stocks of oil under present conditions,
while the Department of Commerce and Industry cannot decide
to allow a heavy increase of price. The only answer would
seem to be to alter the law, which would reflect upon the
dignity

=== Page 267 === (confidence 0.98)
dignity of Japanese law. Moreover, the article points
out, the law has not yet succeeded in controlling prices,
while the Government has had to abandon, in part at least,
its plan of assisting the domestic refining industry by
allotting the natural increase in demand to the local re-
finers. The author's conclusion is that more attention
should be paid to the development of Japanese sources of
fuel, such as the liquification of coal and the exploita-
tion of local oil fields.
The Embassy has no means of ascertaining whether or
not this article was published as a method of preparing the
way for a change in the law and regulations, but in view
of other articles of a similar nature which had been published
previously, this conclusion seems reasonable.
Respectfully yours,
Sdaim I. haill
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
Enclosures:
1/ Memorandum of Conversation, the Ambassador and
Mr. Hirota, July 18, 1935.
2/ Memorandum of Conversation, the Ambassador and
Mr. Kurusu, July 18, 1935.
3/ Clipping from the OSAKA MAINICHI AND TOKYO NICHI-NICHI,
English Edition, July 18, 1935.
863.6
ERD:g

=== Page 268 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatch
No. 1408 of July 25, 1935, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
July 18, 1935.
The Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Mr. Hirota.
Trade and Commerce
Mr. Hirota spoke cf the economic situation between
the two countries and thought by cooperation, conciliation
and compromise most of the difficulties could be removed.
I told him of my talk with Mr. Kurusu yesterday and we
agreed that the general policy of our two governments in
matters of trade seemed to be very similar. He said that
the Canadians had made the mistake of taking arbitrary
action and raising their tariff without sufficient opportunity
for conciliation and that this had caused trouble.
In this connection I said that the Department of
State would no doubt ask me questions about the present
status of the American petroleum interests in Japan and
I would be glad to know quite casually and informally
and without making official representations how the
Minister felt about the probability of favorable settlement
along the lines of the tentative agreement reached between
the Standard Vacuum Company, Messrs. Kurusu and Yoshino.
Mr. Hirota said that he had only recently discussed this
matter at Cabinet where it was arranged that a conference
should be held between the Ministers of the Navy, War,
Commerce, Finance and Foreign Affairs. He said that there
were obviously divided opinions on the subject but he hoped
that

=== Page 269 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
that a favorable settlement could be reached in due
course. He did not however express either optimism or
pessimism as to the result.
J.C.G.

=== Page 270 === (confidence 1.00)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatch
No. 1408 of July 25, 1935, from the
Embassy at Tokyo.
Conversation
July 18, 1935.
Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the
Commercial Bureau.
Trade Relations
In calling on Mr. Kurusu today to say goodbye, we
discussed again the trade relations between the two
countries on the basis of my talk with Mr. Hirota. Mr.
Kurusu said that he expected a favorable outcome of the
negotiations concerning the apportionment of trade with
the Philippines. He obviously had a good many factors
to contend with in Japan but fortunately the textile
interests were in a less exacting frame of mind than
they were a year or two ago owing to the general im-
provement in business and he thought that a satisfactory
settlement would be reached.
As for the petroleum situation, he was working with
the representatives of the other interested ministries
each of which looked at the matter from a different point
of view and it was extremely complicated to bring them
all into line. The War and Navy Ministries cared nothing
about the matter except the conservation of adequate stocks.
The Minister of Commerce had unfortunately committed himself
in the Diet to the effect that the price of gasoline would
not be raised. The Minister of Finance was flatly opposed
to a subsidy. The problem was how to settle the matter
without raising the price of gasoline especially as the
political

=== Page 271 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
political reputation of the Minister of Commerce was at
stake. Mr. Kurusu said he had recently talked with various
taxi drivers who said that if the price of gasoline were
raised two or three sen it would be very difficult for
them because it would not justify their raising their
fares, but if the price were raised to as much as five
or ten sen then their fares could be raised and all would
be well. Mr. Kurusu said that this whole matter must be
settled before the first of October. He did not commit
himself as to the probable result but said that he was
doing his best. His principal card was the fact that Japan
had to have oil and this factor ought to be sufficiently
strong to bring the conflicting interests into line.
J.C.G.

=== Page 272 === (confidence 0.98)
The Osaka Mainichi.
Osaka, Thursday, July 18, 1955.
to despatch
ure No
No1408 or guy 25,1935
Tokye.
Petroleum Act Found in Impasse
One Year After Its Enforcement
Effect've Employment of Oil Legislation Is Disturbed
Dy Financial Stringency; Favorable Results
Depend on Administrative Technique
One year has elapsed since the
The Japanese oil companies are
dealers resort to curtailme
Petro'eun Act was put into practise
reluctantly preparing to fulfl the re-
marketing by from 19 to
on July 1, 1984. The outcome,
quirement, but the foreign companies
cent each month. Eren
however. is far from satisfactory.
are not reconciled to it. For about
gasoline price is lower
For one thing, the legislation has
four months since the autumn, last
official compromise rate of 
points that are conflicting. Never-
year, important representatives of
per gallon by from 9 sem to
theless, much depends upon how the
foreign oil companies conducted
Protection Imelfestive
act operates hereafter.
negotiations with the Commeree
With a view to protecttng
It is hardly necessary to mention
Ofice, seeking to have the regula-
domestic oil industry, the Comm
that petroleum is a source of power
tions mitigated. Nothing has come
(Office gave it a larger percentas
geney and that the petroleum policy
highly valuable in times of emer-
of these talks, the government off-
cials having shown an unyielding
allotment in the right to 
constitutes one of the important
attitude.
demand. But the allotment
items in national defense programs.
Foreign importers point out that
proved of no avail; forelg
This is especially so in Japan, where
they cannot carry on in view of the
punies have sold out their
the domestic production is not suff-
fact that the domestic oil supply in
while the Japanese compamle
clent to sutisfy even 10 per cent of
Japan is the smallest in the world
unable to sell to the Ymtt.
the consuming denand. Financial
and that the market price is held
For the second half of 1006
stringeney, however, offers a serious
down to the lowest figure in the
estimated natural increase i
obstacle to the carrying out of plans
world.
demand was allotted to the de
for increasing the supply. Japan
The Commerce authorities, in the
companies entirely, but for the
finds it vitally necessary to place the
meantime, ure unable to make up
rent year, part of the esti
enterprise under control and to main-
their minds to allow a heavy increase
tain as large a stock within Japan as
in the market price. On the other
companies to fill. This signifes
possible, fron the viewpoint of
hand, if they permit the revision of
treat from the policy of proteet
national defense. Hence the passing
the oil stock obligation from six to
the domestic producers. The
of the Petroleum Act.
three months, this will reflect upon
consolation is that the meadure
The Petroleum Act is entirely
the dignity of the Japanese Jaw.
justifled. Nevertheless, it has proved
Here L the first diffculty.
the domestic enterprise to grow.
ineffective in the face of economic
Market Price Falling
Taking all in all, what has to
customs and traditions of many
As regards control, the legislation
years' standing. It is not that the
is most powerful as an industrial
Act is fur from satiafactory. It
legialation is out of place, nor is it
control act, because it has establish-
due to the inability of the men
ed the permission system not only in
tion will prove valuable 
operating the law. The idea is un-
the oil refining and import, but also
natural.
in the projects of individual com-
3 Major Points
panies. Moreover, the Commerce
The Petroleuin Act has three
authorities may order revision in
fuel problema And yet,
major points.
the market price.
I. To make the dealers to main-
As long as the present market
petroleum law has not beem
tain a stock of oll suffcient to meet
quotation prevails, it is not likely
In view of the fact that
with zix months' demand. (This
that British and American oil pro-
resources in Japan are Malked
means the oll companies must make
ducers will show any eagerness to
are such prohlems as the
outlays for reservoirs, land, etc., in-
sell more in Japan, while Matsukata's
tion of coal, development
volving a combined total of ¥78,689,-
Soviet oil has also revealed its in-
000. In addition to this fixed in-
ability to underaell others any fur-
felds, and other meana of
vestment, they must pay ¥8,892,000
ther. So far, therefore, there has
auxiliary fuel that demand
in running costs).
been no opportupity for the legisla-
These problems have also
9. To exercise general control
tion to enter the feld of control.
tions with the oll ma
over the business for the purpose of
(Mentlon should he made of the
stablising the enterprise.
fact that the government may con-
question of the utmost
 To protect the domestic oil
trol the activities of outsiders in the
in regard to national def
producers.
oil industry by virtue of the staple
Is for the committee to
As segards the maintenance of oll
industries control act, even without
the various problems
stock. Article 8 of the Petraleum
the enactiment of the present legisla-
solution. (By P.D.Q.)
Act provides that the refiners and
tion).
importers: must always have a stock
On the other hand, many small
of mineval maptha, heavy all, and
plants were established in anticipa-
ctude oll at a rate of nek less than
tion of the oll law's enactment. As
ée helf of their respective importa-
a result, the light and machine oil
legialation also provides
circles, for inatance, have reduced
their production on three occasions
siace the autumn. lest year, the pre-
sent eurtaliment rate beins almost
eqnal te six months'
80 per cent, in order to maintain the
market price.
yeer.

=== Page 273 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
(RC)
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 7, 1935.
No. 1421.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
894.6363
21
212
S
A
894.6363/206
No
bu tron-Check
Gtade
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
FILED
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's
5
despatch No. 1408, dated July 25, 1935, and to previous
correspondence on the subject of the difficulties being
F/B
experienced in Japan by the American oil interests under
the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report that it now
appears that events are rapidly moving toward some
solution of the problem, although it is yet too early
to predict the final outcome.
According

=== Page 274 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
According to the newspapers of August 2, 1935,
the Minister for Commerce and Industry, Mr. Chuji
Machida, after the Cabinet meeting on August 1, 1935,
consulted with Premier Okada, General Hayashi, the
War Minister, Admiral Osumi, the Navy Minister, and the
Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Hirota. Mr. Machida
pointed out that the Petroleum Industry Law was un-
satisfactory and that it should be re-examined, with
a view to altering the law or taking other steys which
would relieve the oil companies, Japanese and foreign,
of the excessive burden of stock-keeping. The issues,
as explained by Mr. Machida, were whether or not the
Government would compensate the oil companies for the
cost of providing storage facilities and storing the
oil, whether or not the Government would modify the
oil storage regulations, and whether or not the Govern-
ment would allow an increase in the price of gasoline
to compensate in part for the cost of storing gasoline.
It was decided that a conference of officials of the
Commerce, War, Navy, Finance and Foreign Ministries
should be held to decide upon these issues, according
to the newspapers.
The JIJI SHIMPO of August 7, 1935, reported that
Mr. Yoshino, the Vice Minister for Commerce and In-
dustry, had been active in endeavoring to reconcile
the conflicting ideas of the Ministries interested in
the question. According to this newspaper, the War and
Navy

=== Page 275 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
Navy Ministries were opposed to any compromise on the
oil storage question, while the Finance Ministry was
opposed to the payment of compensation for the storage
of oil, with the result that the Department of Commerce
and Industry was placed in a most difficult position.
After Mr. Machida explained the situation to Admiral
Osumi and General Hayashi on August 1, however, the
latter two Ministers realized that the matter involved
international complications, and as a result thc at-
titude of the Army and Navy toward the question has been
modified considerably. On August 6, therefore, Mr.
Yoshino called on Mr. Machida, explained the present
status of the storage of oil by the oil companies and
further explained the views of the Army and Navy. Mr.
Yoshino assured the Minister that there were increased
prospects of arriving at a settlement of the question.
Next, according to the JIJI, Mr. Yoshino called on
Mr. Tsushima, the Vice Minister for Finance, to consult
him regarding the question of compensation for the storage
of oil, and Mr. Tsushima will proceed to the country
residence of Mr. Takahashi, the Finance Minister, in a
day or two to obtain a definite decision in regard to
this question.
From the above, it appears that developments are
working toward a solution in the form of a subsidy to
compensate for the cost of storing oil. It is probable,
however, that this subsidy will not apply to the foreign
firms

=== Page 276 === (confidence 0.97)
-4-
firms, as the Japanese Government never subsidizes
foreign firms. It therefore appears that a compromise
plan, rumors of which have reached the Embassy, is
under consideration. This plan is said to be that
the foreign oil companies will be required to carry
only three months' stocks of oil, without subsidy,
while the Japanese oil companies will be required to
carry six months' stocks, with a compensating subsidy.
Respectfully vours,
Edim L. recille
Edwin L. Neville,
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
863.6
ERD: a

=== Page 277 === (confidence 0.99)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 P.R./92
Despatch
#1427
894.6363/207
SEE
FOR
Japan
Meville
August 9, 1935.
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1127
American Oil Interests in Japan.
REGARDING:
FRG.

=== Page 278 === (confidence 0.99)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
(a) American Oil Interests in Japan.
Although there were no new developments during the
month in the situation created by the application of the
894.6363
Petroleum Industry Law to A erican and other foreign oil
interests in Japan, it appeared that the Japanese officials
concerned, particularly Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Commercial
Bureau of the Foreign Cffice, were working slowly toward
a solution of the problems of stock-keeping and prices.
The foremost obstacles standing in the way of a settlement
of the matter were the desire of the Army to have large
stocks of petroleum and petroleum products in Japan and
the necessity of avoiding action detrimental to the
reputation of the Minister for Commerce and Industry, who
sponsored the Petroleum Industry Law.*
In compliance with the Department's telegraphic
instruction No. 110 of July 17, the A.:bassador took
advantage of his farewell call on the Minister for Foreign
Affairs on July 18 to bring up casually and informally the
question of the present status of the American petroleum
interests in Japan and to ask the Minister's opinion
concerning a favorable settlement of the question. Mr.
Hirota was noncommittal in his reply, stating that he
hoped that a favorable settlement could be reached in due
course but not expressing either optimism or pessimism
in this regard.

=== Page 279 === (confidence 1.00)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 13, 1935.
Tokyo's 1443 of August 23, 1935, re-
ports that the Japanese authorities are
working toward a solution of the difficulties
incurred under the Petroleum Industry Law
by the American oil companies.
Mr. Machida, the Minister for Commerce
and Industry finds himself in a difficult
place by reason of the law requiring the
companies to carry a six months' stock.
The law was sponsored by his predecessor,
and he himself is left "holding the bag",
unable to recind a law which has been
found partially unworkable without causing
loss of face to his Department. Moreover,
a foolish promise made in the Diet that
the price of gasoline would not be raised
through the operation of the law has
prevented him from offering compensation
for the cost of storing oil. But he
realizes that the oil companies must be
compensated in some way or the oil will
not be stored.
Mr. Kurusu stated to Mr. Dickover
that he could promise that "there would
be no law-breakers on October 1, 1935".
By

=== Page 280 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
By this he evidently meant that the law
will be altered by that time.
894.6363/208
VTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 281 === (confidence 0.96)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, August 23, 1935.
No. 1443.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
l:vision of
EASNAFFAIRS
A
1935
5
L1.J
C
L11
894.6363/208
C
ご
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1421, dated August 7, 1935, and to previous correspon
FLED
dence on the subject of the difficulties being experienced
in Japan by the American oil interests under the provisios
of the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report that it appears
that the Japanese authorities are working steadily on the
problem of finding a solution of the difficulties.
The JIJI of August 16 reported that conferences between
the Ministries of Commerce and Industry, Navy, War and Finance
F/FG.
have

=== Page 282 === (confidence 0.99)
-2 -
have as yet failed to yield a satisfactory solution,
but that the oil companies anticipate that a solution
will be found by permitting a small raise in the price
of gasoline and either reducing the oil storage require-
ments for all companies, or reducing the requirements
only for the foreign firms, while compensating the Japa-
nese companies for carrying the full requirement of six
months' stocks. The YOMIuRI of August 20 reported that
Mr. Machida, the Minister for Commerce and Industry, had
approached Mr. Takahashi, the Finance Minister, with a
plan for reducing the requirement for foreign oil com-
panies to three months' stocks and for compensating
the Japanese companies, which would carry six months'
stocks. According to the newspaper, however, Mr. Taka-
hashi rejected this plan and suggested that Mr. Machida
reconsider the Petroleum Industry Law and its enforcing
regulations in the light of present conditions. Mr.
Machida is thus placed in a very awkward position, the
YOMIURI states. The newspaper also bluntly stated that,
should the Japanese authorities go so far as to fine the
foreign oil companies for their refusal to make prepara-
tions for the storage of six months' supplies of oil, the
foreign oil companies are determined to withdraw from Japan
and may institute a boycott on supplies of crude oil to
Japan.
Mr. Dickover, of the Embassy, on August 20 asked Mr.
Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the
Foreign Office, how the adjustment of the difficulties
of the oil companies was progressing. Mr. Kurusu con-
firmed various statements in the newspapers to the effect
that

=== Page 283 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
that Mr. Machida, Minister for Commerce and Industry,
was in an embarrassing position. He said that the
Petroleum Industry Law was sponsored and introduced
into the Diet by Mr. Machida's predecessor in office,
Mr. Yamamoto, that the law has now been in operation
for a year and has been found to be partially unworkable,
and that Mr. Machida has "been left holding the bag".
Mr. Machida himself, according to Mr. Kurusu, is a
liberal of the old school, who believes in freedom
of trade and as little government as possible in busi-
ness, and, moreover, he is the President of the Minseito,
the party which advocates such principles. Therefore
he secretly is opposed to the Petroleum Industry Law,
but he cannot make his predecessor in office and the
permanent offcials of his Ministry "lose face" by de-
nouncing the law. Moreover, he, or one of his sub-
ordinate officials, foolishly made a statement in the
Diet to the effect that the price of gasoline would
not be raised through the operation of the law. There-
fore the price of gasoline cannot be rised to com-
pensate for the cost of storing oil. But Mr. Machida
realizes that the oil companies have to be compensated
in some way for storing oil, or the oil will not be
stored. Consequently he is in a most difficult position.
Mr. Kurusu concluded by stating that, despite the
difficulties of Mr. Machida, he could promise that "there
would be no law-breakers on October 1, 1935". By this
he

=== Page 284 === (confidence 0.95)
-4-
he evidently meant that the foreign oil companies,
which have not and do not mean to store six months'
supplies of oil in Japan, will not be breaking the
law on October 1 (when, according to the law, the full
amount of oil must be stored), because the law will be
altered by that time.
Respectfully yours,
Edieion
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
ERD:r
1

=== Page 285 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
September 28, 1935.
RON!
MOMH:
Tokyo's 1465 of September 6, 1935,
disousses in some detail press reports
of the deliberations of the authorities
in regard to enforcement of the oil law.
Press reports, which the Embassy has
been unable to confirm, state that the date
of enforcement originally set for October 1,
will have to be postponed; that the Govern-
ment will compensate the companies for the
cost of erecting storage facilities; and
that a moderate increase in the price of
gasoline will be allowed.
This solution would prevent the
foreign companies from becoming lawbreakers
on October 1, and would enable the Govern-
ment to save face. But it would not
satisfy the military and it would leave
the foreign oil companies in an insecure
situation.
This despatch is largely repetitious
of previous reports.
894.6363/209
WTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 286 === (confidence 0.93)
五
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 6, 1935.
No. 1465.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
46
894.6363
22
FAT FASTERA
894.6363/209
Fou
D…. Che
11
Grade
LUSA
For
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1443 dated August 23, 1935, and to previous cor-
FILED
respondence on the subject of the difficulties being
experienced in Japan by the American and other foreign
oil interests under the provisions of the Petroleum
Industry Law. In previous despatohes it was reported
that the Japanese Government authorities were working
F/FG.
toward a solution of the problems confronting the
Government in connection with the operation of the
Law.
Recent

=== Page 287 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Recent newspaper accounts of the results of the
deliberations of the authorities have been pessimistic.
According to the vernacular newspapers, the committee
appointed from among officials of the Departments of
Commerce and Industry, Finance, War and Navy held a
second conference on August 28, at which time it was
decided that (1) the provision of the regulations re-
quiring oil traders to carry six months' stocks of oil
should not be changed, but as it will be impracticable
to enforce this provision on October 1, l935, the date
originally set, the date of enforcement will have to be
postponed for some time, (2) the Government should con-
sider compensation of the oil firms, both Japanese and
foreign, for the cost of erecting storage facilities and
the storing of oil, and (3) a moderate increase in the
price of gasoline should be allowed, as partial compen-
sation for the expense of storing oil.
The newspapers point out that there are several
objections to the solutions enumerated above. In regard
to (1) , it is pointed out that the foreign oil companies
positively refuse to store six months' stocks of oil, and
that therefore the mere postponement of the date of enforce-
mont is not a final and definite solution of the difficulty.
On the other hand, the newspapers state, the Japanese oil
companies have proceeded with preparations for the fulfillment
of the storage requirements by October 1, 1935, and if the
date of enforcement is to be indefinitely postponed, or if
the requirements are to be altered to three months' stocks,
thoy

=== Page 288 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
they want to be compensated for the expenses already
inourred. In regard to (2), it is stated that the
Finance Ministry is definitely opposed to any sort of
State compensation to the oil companies, and, in case
compensation is given, the question arises if the foreign
firms should be compensated at all or be compensated at
the same rate as the Japanese firms. Likewise, the au-
thorities are opposed to the granting of a higher price
for gasoline, on the ground that such a step would be
against the interests of the consumer, whose interests,
it was stated before the Diet when the law was under
consideration, would not be affected by the law. For
these reasons, according to opinion in oil circles, the
newspapers state, a solution of the difficulties satis-
factory to all parties will be almost impossible, if not
impossible,of attainment.
The Embassy has not been able to gather any direct
information in regard to the outcome of the deliberations
of the authorities concerned, but it appears probable
that the temporary solution which has been discussed is
simply that of postponing indefinitely the date of enforce-
ment of the requirement that oil companies must carry six
months' stocks in storage. This solution would, for the
time being, accomplish the following results:
1. The foreign oil companies would not be law-
breakers on October 1, 1935, and would therefore not be
subject to fines or cancelation of their licenses to
operate in Japan.
2.

=== Page 289 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
2. The oil companies would not be required to
invest further large sums for tanks and oil, and there-
fore an increase in the price of gasoline would not
be immediately indicated.
3. The Japanese Government would "save face",
as it would not have to repeal a provision already pro-
mulgated.
The Army and Navy, however, would undoubtedly not
be satisfied with this solution, as they would not ac-
quire the large reserves of oil which they desire. It
is doubtful also if the foreign oil companies will be
satisfied with the solution, as it is not a fundamental
solution and leaves them in a position of uncertainty.
Newspaper Comment.
Some of the newspapers have commented editorially
upon the difficulties which the Government is erperiencing
in enforcing the Petroleum Industry Law. The ASAHI on
August 26 stated that the fact that the oil storage
scheme had not yet been carried out was a serious re-
fleotion on the Government, and must be due to defects
in the law itself. It stated that the only explanation
is that the Diet passed the law upon the insistence
of the military without considering the implications
of the law, and suggests that the best way out of the
difficulty would be for the Government to compensate
the oil companies for the extra expense which would
be inourred because of the law. The JIJI on August 31
stated that the Petroleum Industry Law was not operating
smoothly

=== Page 290 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
smoothly, because the Government authorities failed
to realize the obvious fact that the oil companies
would object to the expense of providing storage
facilities and buying oil for storage; that the plan
of raising gasoline prices would be unsatisfactory
because it would squeeze the public in order to pay
for a scheme which should be financed by the Govern-
ment or the companies or both; that the best solution
would be to lower the quantity to be stored; that this
step would lose face for the Government but that the
problem is such that the question of face should not
be taken into consideration. The JAPAN TIMES AND MAIL
of September 2, l935, outlined the difficulties being
experienced in enforcing the Petroleum Industry Law
and stated that it would seem that * drastic modifi-
cation is called for before it can be enforced". It
pointed out that the law was essentially a national
defense measure, but stated that *even those most
concerned with the technicalities of defense can hardly
kill the goose which lays the golden egg of Japan's
oil needs". The editorial concluded:
"It is hoped that the Government au-
thorities will act wisely in revising the
provisions of the present Oil Law so that
the oil companies both foreign and Japanese
may be able to do business on a reasonable
basis. Such a revision should, of course,
not be detrimental to the interest of the
nation. Unless the present impasse is solved,
the National Oil Industry Policy will do littio
good for the Nation."
The Search for o1l.
According to the KOKUMIN SHIMBUN of September 2,1935,
the Japanese Navy has worked out a program to improve
Japan's

=== Page 291 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
Japan's limited oil resouroes. The program,which
really contains nothing now, consists of further
exploitation of Japan's domestic oil fields, ac-
quisition of fields abroad, enforoement of the storage
provisions of the Petroleum Industry Law, and the
development of oil substitutes.
The Navy believes, according to the KOKUMIN, that
many areas in Japan have not yet been sufficiently
explored for oil, including Aomori, Akita, Niigata
and Nagano Prefectures, Hokkaido, Formosa and South
Saghalien. The Navy believes also that fields already
yielding could be made to produce greater quantities if
drilling were carried to deeper strata.
The South Seas (meaning Java, Borneo and Sumatra)
are ideally located as fields for exploitation by Japa-
nese oil interests but unfortunately most of the island
fields have been acquired by British and American in-
terests. It is therefore necessary to look elsewhere
for foreign fields for Japanese exploitation, but com-
panies which obtain oil concessions abroad can count on
the support of the Navy. More positive support will
also be given by the Navy to the Kita Karafuto Sekiyu
Kaisha, which is exploiting oil fields in the Soviet
half of Saghalien, and the Navy will endeavor to obtain
an extension of time during which new drilling can be
undertakon.
The Navy regards it as essential that oil be stored
in times of peace for use in time of emergency, and
therefore

=== Page 292 === (confidence 0.97)
-7-
therefore will insist that the six months' oil
storage provision of the Petroleum Industry Law be
enforoed .
The Navy is also to give further attention to
the study of oil substitutes, to supplement the supply
of oil from the sources enumerated above. The Navy
developed, at the naval laberatory at Tokuyama, the
system of liquification of coal which may be commer-
cialized by the South Manchuria Railway, and further
efforts will be made along those lines, according
to the KOkUMIN, as well as the study of alcohol,
animal and vegetable oils, and other petroleum sub-
stitutes.
Respectfully yours,
Ein Phille
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 293 === (confidence 0.98)
3
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 3, 1935.
w.wairl
Roference Tokyo's telegran No. 187 of
Soptember 28, noon, in regard to recent de-
velopments in the oil situation in Japan.
In brief, it would appear that the
Japanese Ministries of Commerce and Industry
and of Foreign Affairs have failed in their
efforts to obtain from the other concerned
ministries, particularly those of War and of
Navy, approval of the informal agreement
reached last April, which agreement, as a
culmination to protracted discussions be-
tween the special representatives of the oil
interests and Japanese officials, provided
for a reduction from six months to three
months in the stockholding requirements of
the new oil law. As the situation now
stands, the Japanese Government, although
postponing for nine months the date upon
which the new regulations become effective,
will, "for reasons of national defense and
to provide for emergencies", insist that
on and after June 30, 1936, all oil dealers
in Japan carry in stock a six-months' sup-
ply of oil. According to the Vice Minister
of Commerce and Industry, the Japanese
Government will endeavor to provide com-
pensation equal to the carrying charges
of

=== Page 294 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
of three-months' stocks of oil and "next
year" will give consideration to the ques-
tion of permitting a price advance. How-
ever, the Embassy's telegram under reference
states that it is yuestionable "whether and
to what extent" the Finance Ministry und
the Diet will approve expenditures in con-
pensation for carrying charges on three-
months' stocks of oil.
Although the decision of the Ja nese
Government, as indicated above, is not in
accord with the infommal understanding ar-
rived at last April and although, in the
absence of adequate compensution, it, in
effect, may cause American, British und
Dutch oil interests to withdraw from Japan
after having spent many years of hurd laburwrk
in developing in Japan, for the benefit of
the Japanese as well as for their own
profit, adequate services of supply of
petroleum products, it does not aprear that,
with the possible exception of Article 1 of
the American-Japanese Treaty of 19ll, the
Japanese Governient has in this instance
violated any treaty prcvision agreed to by
it and by the United States. The concluding
paragraph of Article 1 of the aforementioned
treaty reads as follows:
"They

=== Page 295 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 3 -
"They (the subjects or citizens of
the United States and of Japan) shall,
however, be exempt in the territori cf
the other fron compulsory military serv-
ice either on land or sea, in the recu-
lar forces, or in the national guurd, or
in the militia; frcn all contributions
imposed in lieu of personal service, and
from all forced loans or military exac-
tions or contributions."
In view of the fact that the storue require-
ment of the oil law is unquestionably a
measure of national defense and that it has
been so termed by the Vice Minister of Com-
meroe and Industry, it would seem to be in
direct conflict with the spirit and, in all
probability, the letter of that portion of
the treaty quoted above. Thus, unless the
stated intention of the Japanese Government
to provide compensation equal to the carry-
ing charges on three-months' stocks of oil
is put into effect, it would seem that the
American Government appropriately might
make known to the Japanese Governnent its
opinion that implementation of reculations
requiring American oil interests to maintain
at their own expense for purposes of Japa-
nese national defense stocks of oil in ex-
cess of those which the concerned company
may

=== Page 296 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
may wish to carry for its normal business
roquirements, would constitute a "military
oxaotion" and thus a violation of Article 1
of the treaty of 19ll. Unfortunately,
should the British Government wish to adopt
similar tactics by referring to Article 2 of
the British-Japanese Treaty of 19ll, which
article guarantees to British subjects under
certain conditions freedom from military re-
quisitions and contributions, it would find
its position materially weakened by the
qualifying clause appearing in that article
which reads as follows: "unless imposed on
them equally with native subjects". In this
connection, it will be recalled that the
proposed stockholding requirement applies to
Japanese as well as to foreign oil interests.
Notwithstanding this phase of the situation,
it is believed that the American Government
should be prepared to make to the Japanese
Government representations along the line
indioated provided (a) the Japanese Govern-
ment shall have refused to provide compensa-
tion in full for such costs as may be in-
curred by American oil interests in conse-
quence of their being forced to maintain a
six-months' instead of a three-months' supply
of oil; (b) the American oil interests are
penalized for failure to comply on June 30,
1936, with the new regulations or, prior to
the

=== Page 297 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 5 -
the date stated, by withholding from them,
as threatened, their just share in the
natural increase (in business) for 1936";
and (c) the American oil interests shal?
have indicated their desire that further
representations be made on their behalf.
Although it is believed that Article 7
of the Japanese-American Treaty of 1911
does not preclude action along the line indi-
cated above, it would seem well to bear in
mind the concluding paragraph of the article
mentioned, which reads as follows:
"The foregoing stipulation [right
to appear in courts] has no bearing upon
the question whether a company or associ-
ation organized in one of the two coun-
tries will or will not be permitted to
transact its business or industry in the
other, this permission remaining always
subject to the laws and regulations en-
acted or established in the respective
countries or in any part thereof."
A draft of a suggested reply to the
Embassy's telegram under reference is at-
tached hereto.
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 298 === (confidence 0.95)
TE
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FAR LASIR
FS
1-1836
FROM
A portion of this
telegram must be
Tokyo
clc. ely paraphrased
before being conmunicated
De: ed September 2
to anyone. (c)
Rec1d :37 a.
Socretary of State,
Nashington.
894.6363/210
187, September 28, noon. (GRAY)
1203
Embassy's 152, Jul , 4 ..
One. At a meetir: yosterday between the Vice
Minisber for Co meree aenud Tndus av, Kurusu, and the
representat ves   Ste au and Shell interocts,
the Vice stnister exolai Eo resent status I the
oil problem as follows:
(A). Tho six months oil stora  requirements
will be postponed from October 1, 1935, to Junc S0,
FEB
1936, but this is only a postponemont and the over-
FILED
8-1933
mont will insist on the storage of six months stocks
for reasons of national dofense and to provido for
emorgoncies.
(B). Th. Govemmen will ondeavor to provide
componsation, amounting to tho carrying chargos of
throo months stocks, but it is quostionablo whethor
or to what extont tho Financo Ministry and tho Diot
will approve such oxponditure.
(C).

=== Page 299 === (confidence 0.99)
15
FS
2-No. 187, Sept. 28, noon from Tokyo
(C). In view of the fact that some Japanese
oil companies are already storing six months supplies
they will be compensated for their extra expenditure
by receiving quotas providing for larger shares of
the natural increase for 1936. The foreign oil
companies will therefore receive very little or
possibly no share of the natural increase for 1936
unless they signify their intention to fulfill the
six months storage requirement in the near future.
(D). For social reasons, no price advance will
be granted in the imnediate future but next year a
price advance covering both advance on economic
grounds and advance as conpensation for storage will
be considered.
Two. The local representatives of the foreign
oil interests do not consider the above to be in
accordance with the informal agreement reached last
April between the Japanese officials and the special
representatives of the oil interests and so informed
the authorities yesterday. The authorities replied
that their change of attitude was due to the fact
that they are contemplating compensation for part of
the cost of storage. (END GRAY)
Throe.

=== Page 300 === (confidence 0.99)
16
FB
3-No. 187, September 28, noon from Tokyo
Three. CONFIDENTIAL. Referring to tho last
paragraph of the Embassy's despatch number 1060,
dated November 16, 1934. In view of thc fact that
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry stated
dofinitely that the storage requirements are a
national defense measuro, it appears possiblc that
those roquiroments might be considered as contraven-
ing the last paragraph of Article one of the American-
Japanose Treaty of 19ll. If, in tho opinion of tho
Departmont, no action can bo taken on treaty grounds,
there appears to be no furthor step for the American
oil company but to withdraw from Japan or drastically
to curtail its operations here.
GW
NEVILLE

=== Page 301 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
180
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
EPARTMENT OF STATE
This cable
Washinglen,
It should be
,1955.
being commanicated to anyone.
carefully paraphrased seic.
smor
TOKYO (Japan).
In the event that the Japanese Government should indicate
that it is not repeat not prepared to compensate adequately
894.6363/210
the Standard Oil Company for such costs as it may inour in
mintaining stocks in excess of the/three-months' supply/
whieh it is understood the company is prepared to carry at
its own erpense, and provided the company 1s penalized in
amy way, ineluding that indicated in paragraph (C) of your
telegram under reference, for failure to comply with the
asmouneed stockholding requirements,
Department is inolined to believe that, if the company
should desire further representations on its behalf, the
massy could with propriety make kmown to the Japanese
Severment the epinion or the Amorican Government that
quirement by the Japanese -- ror purposes, as now stated
by Japanese authorities, of Japanese national defense --
that merican companies store and hold, at their own expense
without adequate compensation, quantities of oil/ and
perties accessory thereto not ndeded in their business.
1-188

=== Page 302 === (confidence 0.92)
18
TELEGRAM SENT
1-130
TO BE TRANGMITVED
CONFIDENTIAL CO
Department of State
NONOONFIDENTIAL
PLAIN
Washingten,
would in effect eonstitute a qUors military emaction UNqUorE
and as such be a violation or the terms of the final paragraph
of Artiele 1 of the American-Japanese Treaty of 19ll.
It is suggested that the Imbassy gather and forward to
Department, with statement or its views and recommendations,
such additional evidence as may be available in support of/
the contention that the stockholding requirement or the oil/
lew eonstitutes a military exaction and therearter await the
Department's further instructions. Make no repeat no
representations to Japanese Government on this point until
further instrueted by Department.
Huee
894.6365/210
m.ma.
LE
eevy
FE:ROM:EJL
FE
54
19.
1-188

=== Page 303 === (confidence 0.98)
NDER SECHETARY
00117 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEPARTMENTAT
IVIBION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
October 14, 1935.
? No action reguined. eus
The Embassy at Tokyo reports that
tho temporary solution of the oil storage
problem, effected by postponing the date
of enforcement of the mandatory regulation,
is unsatisfactory to the foreign oil
companies. Although the Japanese
authorities have kept their promise that
the foreign companies would not become
law-breakers by reason of their failure
to store six months' supply of oil
after October 1, 1935, the solution is
only temporary and does not offer any
fundamental settlement of the dispute.
It is reported that the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry will offer to
compensate the oil companies for carry-
ing oil stocks to the extent of half the
carrying charges with no compensation
for the erection of storage facilities
and the costs of the oil. The foreign
companies object on the score that they
are being coerced into contributing to
a national defense measure, and because
if they consent to this plan, with in-
adequate compensation, other countries
will adopt similar measures. They also
suspect

=== Page 304 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2-
suspeot that the postponement scheme will
operate to give preferential quota treat-
ment to those Japanese oil companies
which elect to carry six months' stocks.
The Embassy admits that the situa-
tion is discouraging but is inclined to
believe that, if the much heralded crisis
of 1935-36 fails to materialize by
June 1936, it is possible that there
will be something of a revolt against
the excessive demands of the military,
which may be extended to cover the oil
storage demands. In this connection,
the HoCHI has editorially expressed the
opinion that the Petroleum Industry Law
has lost its raison d'etre as there
appear to be no signs at all of the
crisis.
The Standard-Vacuum and Rising Sun
companies are about to protest to the
Chosen Government against the quotas
allotted them under the Chosen Petroleum
Industry Law.
894.6363/211
WTT
WTT/DLY

=== Page 305 === (confidence 0.93)
甘花
EMBASSY OF THE
EA
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, September 20, 1935.
(eem)
No. 1482.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
l
AOCT 22 1935 LS
894.6363
DEPARTMCNI UF OI-IE
A
coby ts
Lridm Nov.4,
1935
(Su Enaclrune/213)
894.6363/211
Lmkon
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Weshington.
sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
209
No. 1465,/dated September 6, 1935, and to previous cor-
D
respondence on the subject of the difficulties being
experienced in Jepan by the American and British oil
interests under the provisions of the Petroleum Industry
Law, and to report the following recent developments
in connection with the matter.
As was reported in despatch No. 1465, the Japanese
officials concerned with the oil problem were considering
F/FG.
the

=== Page 306 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
the plan of postponing the date by which the oil companies
would be required to have in storage six months' supplies
of oil. This plan was carried into effect on September 18,
1935, by Imperial Ordinance No. 272. As published in the
OFFICIAL GAZETTE of September 19, 1935, cnd translated
by the Embassy, the ordinance reads as follows:
"With regard to the quantity of petroleum oils
to be kept in storage by refiners of petroleum or
importers of petroleum, this may be determined
by special order or ordinance until June 30, 1936,
irrespective of the provisions of Paragraph 1,
Article 6, of the Regulations perteining to the
operation of the Petroleum Industry Law.
Additional Rule: This Ordinance becomes effective
on October 1, 1935."
According to RENGO, the Depertment of Commerce and
Industry will shortly issue regulations implementing
the above ordinance. These regulations will provide that
oil companies which obtain permission from the Minister of
Commerce and Industry may postpone the storage of oil es
provided in the Petroleum Industry Lew and its enforcing
regulations from October 1, 1935, to June 30, 1936.
On September 17, 1935, the Department of Commerce
and Industry issued the following statement to the press
(translation by the JAPAN ADVERTISER):
"iccording to the regulations of the Oil Business
Law, oil refiners and importers must assume the obli-
gatien of keeping six months' supply of oil in storage,
commencing October 1. Alive to the prevailing status
of the oil business in Japan, however, the Ministry
has recognized the inadequacy of enforcing the regu-
lations entirely for the time being. This has prompted
the Ministry to postpone the date of enforcement to
June, 1936."
In the opinion of the foreign oil compenies, this
temporary solution of the storage problem is not satis-
factory, although by it the Japanese offioials have kept
the

=== Page 307 === (confidence 0.98)
- 3 -
the promise made to the special representatives of
tho Standard end Shell interests last April, to the
effect that some ad justment of the situation would
be made before October 1, 1935, in order that the
foreign oil comp nies, who are making no preparations
to store six months' stocks of oil, might not be law-
breakers on that date. The solution reached, how-
ever, is somewhet discouraging, primarily because it
indicates that the officials of the Department of
Commerce and Industry and of the Foreign Office have
not been able to overcome the insistence of the military
that six months' stocks of oil be carried in Japan by
the oil companies. Moreover, the solution is only
temporary and does not offer ny fundamental settle-
ment of the dispute. The Ministry of Commerce and
Industry announced, when the Ordinance was presented to
the Cabinet for approval, that during the next nine
months the Ministry expects to work out the problem
of oil storage smoothly and uninterruptedly by adopting
proper measures. It is reported, however, that the
measures which the Ministry will seek to have adopted
will consist of compensation to the oil compenies for
the carrying of stocks of oil. The amount of compensa-
tion suggested is only half the carrying charges, with
no compensation for the erection of storege facilities
and the original purchase of the oil. The Japanese
officiels apparently arrive at this scheme of compen-
sation on the ground that the oil companies are already
carrying three months' stooks, and that therefore the
Government should compensate them only for carrying
the ertra three months' stocks. This compensation will
not

=== Page 308 === (confidence 0.98)
- 4 -
not be satisfactory to the foreign oil companies,
however, which object primarily to the investment
in this country of large sums for storage facilities
and the purchase of oil, believing that if such storage
is required for national defense purposes, the original
cost and all the carrying charges should be borne by the
government. If the foreign oil companies consent to
carry large quantities of oil for the Japanese Govern-
ment, with inadequete compensation, every country in
the world which lacks supplies of oil will iumedietely
adopt storage laws similar to those adopted by the Japa
nese Government. The foreign oil compenies therefore
feel that they must continue to refuse to gree to the
storage of six months' supplies of oil, even though
some compensetion is offered, as a metter of general
principle.
The foreign oil companies also suspect that the
postponement scheme will be operated to give preferential
quota treatment to those Japanese oil companies which
elect to cerry six months' stocks. Some of the Japenese
oil companies, notably Mitsui, have made preparations
to carry six months' stocks, and it is presumed that
recognition of their ready compliance with the lew will
take the form of lerger quotas for l936 end following
years, at the expense of the companies which have not
complied with the regulations. It is believed that it
was for this reason that the word "postponement" was
not used in the Imperial Ordinance promulgated on
September 18, 1935. If the requirement of carrying
81x

=== Page 309 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
six months' stocks should be postponed indiscriminately
for all companies, no preference could be given those
companies which comply with the requirements. But
by making the postponement applicable only to those
which apply for permission therefor, the Government
might have some reason to grant preferential privileges
to those which do not apply for postponement and which
carry the full six months' stocks. The foreign oil companies
have received an intimation that this scheme may be made
permanent, as a special Departmental regulation may be
issued allowing the reduction of the storage quantity
to three months' stocks provided formal permission is
obtained. Presumably those companies which elect to
carry six months' stocks will receive, in addition
to such compensation as the Diet may approve, pre-
ferential annual quotas.
While the situation, as outlined above, is dis-
couraging, the possibility exists that the postponement
of the date for the carrying of six months' stocks
may work out satisfactorily. The principal reason behind
the sudden demend of the military that six months' stocks
be carried is believed to be the necessity of having
adequate supplies of oil to tide the nation over the
expected "1935-36 Crisis". If the crisis fails to develop
by June 30, 1936, it is possible that the military will
consent to reduce their demands for the storage of oil.
Moreover, the question of compensation for the companies
carrying six months' stocks of oil will have to come before
the Diet, and there are indications that there will be
something

=== Page 310 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
something of a revolt against the excessive demands
of the military, which may be extended to cover the oil
storage demands.
As the Jap nese Government, as indicated above,
has to e degree carried out the informal promises made
to the special representatives of the foreign oil com-
panies last pril, it does not appear that any formal
action is called for at the present time. The situation
is still somewhat nebulous, and until definite plans
are formulated for presentation to the Diet, it is
difficult to see in whet way the Embassy could inter-
vene for the assistance of the American oil interests.
Chosen Quotas.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun
Petroleum Company are ebout to protest to the Government
General of Chosen (Korea) against the quotas allotted
them under the Petroleum Industry Law (which is administered
in Chosen independently of the central government) for
1935. It appears that in the early part of the year
they were informed by the Government Generel that they
could count on an increase in their quotas of 15 per
cent above their sales in l934, end they have been
selling at that rate since. When the quotes were finally
fixed recently, however, they found that they had been
granted increases of only ten to eleven per cent above
their sales in 1934. As a result they are now unable
to supply their dealers with all the petroleum pro-
ducts demanded without exceeding their quotas for the
year. Moreover, during the conversations between the
Japanese officials and the special representatives of
the Standard and Shell interests in Tokyo in April
last, the foreign companies were assured that they
would

=== Page 311 === (confidence 0.99)
-7 -
would be granted probably better than one-third of the
natural increase of the demend in Chosen, while the
shere of the natural increase granted in 1935 is only
about 30 per cent of the totel. They are therefore
protesting to the Chosen Government General and sending
copies of their protests to the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry and the Foreign Office in Tokyo.
The Search for Oil.
The HOCHI of September 13, 1935, reported that the
total shipments of crude oil from North Saghalien to
Japan in 1935 will amount only to 174,000 tons, in-
cluding some 64,000 tons purchased from the Soviet-
operated part of the fields. It had been planned to
obtein around 220,000 tons from North Saghalien, but
the production of the Japanese-operated fields dropped
from the 147,000 tons obtained last year to 110,000 tons
this year, while the Soviet Government this year was
unwilling to sell any large amount of oil, its refinery
in Khabarovsk now being in full operation and requiring
nearly all the oil obtainable from the Soviet-operated
North S&ghalien fields. The North Seghalien Oil Com-
pany (the Jap:nese company to which the concession
in North Saghalien was given) will therefore in the
future concentrate on drilling new wells in the attempt
to increase production, rather than relying upon pur-
chasing oil from the Soviet-operated wells.
Newspaper Comment.
The HOCHI of September 17, 1935, editorially ex-
prossed the opinion that the Petroleum Industry Law has
lost its raison d'atre. It was drafted, according to
the newspaper, with the idea in mind that Japan would
have

=== Page 312 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
have to moet a great crisis in 1935-36 and that an
emergenoy supply of oil would be necessery. But sub-
sequent developments have falsified the expectations of
the Government, there being no signs et all of the crisis.
Moreover, the oil companies are refusing to store six months'
supplies of oil, causing the lew to lose much of its authority.
There is enclosed a clipping from the JAPAN DVERTISER
of September 19, l935, containing an editoriel ably reviewing
the oil controversy. The editorial concludes with the opinion
that, as the military have not seen fit to find themselves
the funds for compensating the oil companies for the storage
of oil, they cannot believe the storage so very necessary,
thus indicating that the "crisis" no longer greatly disturbs
them.
Respectfully yours,
Edam  hairlle
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé a'Affaires ad interim.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 313 === (confidence 0.99)
nclomure No
despatch
No482020./2th
Tokyo, Thussday, September 19, 1935.
TOKYO, THURSDAY, SEPT. 19. 1935
Foreign companies were accordingly
invited to assure Japan against this
The Oil Storage Concession
emergency at a considerable cost in
plant, in return for licenses to do
The Cabinet decision to postpone
business in Japan until such time as
enforcement of the compulsory stor-
new sources of supply, which Japan
age provision in the Oil Business Law
was diligently seeking, could be
found. The foreign companies na-
brings a lull in a controversy now
turally protested that on a purely
more than a year old. The form the
economic basis the proposal was not
"postponement" which, according to
worth it, that it was better to clear
reports, must not be so called, because
out right away and cut present losses
all the Japanese companies are prac-
than to incur new ones.
Officials of the Commerce Minis-
tically ready to store a six months
try have always been aware that the
supply in accordance with the terms
measure belonged more to the field
of the original legislation, is to be
of politics than economics. They re-
that of a new Ordinance declaring
alized the justice of the foreign com-
that oil companies which obtain per-
panies' contention, understood that
their threat to clear out was not just
mission of the Minister of Commerce
Lluff, were assailed by Japanese oil
and Industry may postpone from
companies, which were not in a posi-
October 1, 1935 to June 30, 1936 the
tion to clear out, for financial help to
storage of oil demanded in the Oil
comply with the law's demands, and
Business Law.
all round were placed in an extreme-
According to the statement of the
ly difficult position. They were not
Ministry, the authorities, "alive to the
able for obvious reasons to give the
prevailing status of the oil business
desired compensation, and they na-
in Japan," have "recognized the in-
turally turned in their difficulty to the
adequacy of enforcing the regulation
Service departments which had in-
entirely for the time being. During
dicated originally the need for the
the next nine months, the Ministry
storage provisions; their attitude be-
expects to work out the problem of
ing in plain words: "This proposi-
oil storage smoothly and uninter-
tion is not sound economics, and if it
ruptedly by adopting proper mea-
is a defense measure, then it is the
sures."
defense departments' business to find
There is no need at this late date
the money for it, and not ours."
to trace the history of the controversy
The result of mary conferences is
between the Government and the oil
the present decision. It is to be noted
companies, chiefly the foreign oil
that if the Service departments had
companies, the details of which have
considered the storage measure es-
been frequently ventilated in the
sential for their purposes, they would
columns of the Japan Advertiser.
have found the money to pay for it, as
It is enough to say that the post-
they have found the money to pay
ponement decision marks a triumph
for other purposes which they have
of ordinary economic processes over
considered essential and which civi-
an attempt politically to interfere
lian agencies of Government have not.
with them and also indicates in an
indirect way a return of political
The fact that they did not persist in
that view is a fair indication that
tranquillity to Japan.
As the Hochi pointed out on Tues-
"crisis" no longer disturbs them, and
that the tension of the post-Man-
day, the Oil Business Law was draft-
ed "when the Government was labor-
churian years is now relaxing even
ing under the belief that Japan would
in military circles.
face the worst international crisis."
By this it was clearly meant that
Japan was' facing or would face a
threat of war. Thus the storage pro-
visions were inserted in the law so
that Japan should have at least a six
months' supply of oil (mostly foreign
oil, since two thirds of her consump-
tion is imported from abroad) in the
event of an emergency and a threat
of partial or total cessation of supply.

=== Page 314 === (confidence 0.95)
山
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEW YORK
894.6363
Oetober 1st, 1935.
C
0
Resly
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
drapted
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Livision of
4,193
Department of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Washington, D.C.
4
894.6363/212
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
In one of the recent telgrams from
Japan our office state they have notified the Embassy
at Tokyo regarding the latest action taken by the
Japanese Government in respect to the Control Law.
No doubt you have or will shortly re-
ceive such advices and therefore we shall not comment
upon them at this time except to say that the Govern-
ment's reply is receiving consideration here and will
be fully discussed.
At a later date we may ask the liberty
of conferring with you in regard to any possible action
we feel we should take to protect our interests. Pending
that time, if there is any information which you think we
are in a position to give you, we shall be very pleased
indeed to do so.
With kindest regards,
FILED
Sincerely yours,
P.W.Parke
F
0

=== Page 315 === (confidence 0.88)
oetober 7 1935
Beer. Parter:
The ressipt is acknowledged of your letter of Oste-
bes 1, 19ss, in regard to reeent develepmeats in the et1
894.6363/212
situatiom ia Japan.
In this eammeetien I may state that by telegram
umder date September s8 the Ameriean Embassy et Tekye in-
fummed the Department that on September s7 the Vise
Minister for Cemmeree and Industry explained to the
sepseesntatives of the Stasdard Oil and Shell interests
the existing situatiem in regard to the eil preklam in
Japen.
Is brier outlime, it would appear that, although
pestpening by sine months the date upem whick the new
reguletiems will beeeme effestive, the Japanese Gevemn-
pont, for reasems of matiemel defense, iasists thst on
and after Jume s0, 1sse, there be earried in sterage by
all ell dealers in Japes stesks equivalent to a sis-
mamths' supply; that althengh the Japanese Gevesmmems
1ll
.P..

=== Page 316 === (confidence 0.73)
一
and the Maistry ef Pinenee will eypreve such expenditsee)
e tse s ies hich re w rys is
e t equivelest to a straaths' supply vill
e, etien fer ditél este mtdent to
mmsh stesege, larger shares of the matural inerease for
1e, that therefere fereige sil interests, waless they
stesnge reguiresnt in the seer fetuere, will recetve
little or pesstaly me share of the satuerel inereese for
lone; and that, altheugh no fnerease in priess will be
autherised in the meer future, sonsideratien will be
stm nt year to the questim of sévancing priess beth
a cememée srounde nd as compensation ter inressel
f . The aesey turther reerte tht the
  t      
 the  t eed lst A by e
e etfteials e the etal repressntetives ef the

=== Page 317 === (confidence 0.79)
—8-
o ht   eeth
  l ta te Dgert as to Lesisten
renshed by at in regerd to the a tuatien mder comstdese-
siem and that meither you mer your asseciates will hesi-
sate te eall at the Department in the event that am eral
discussien et the preblem is desired.
sineerely yours,
sof
Stanley K. Barabeek,
Ghief.
Divisiem ef Far Desterm Affairs.
m.mbk.
OCT 7.19FM
E
A true copy 
Snar
10/8/85
som
aal.

=== Page 318 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Ootober 29, 1935.
Tokyo's 1506 of October 4, 1935, re-
ports further developments in the oil situa-
tion in Japan. The following is a brief
digest of a very detailed report.
On September 23, the Department of
Commoree and Industry notified the foreign
oil companies that there had been no change
in the law in regard to storage obligations;
that the recent ordinance of September 18,
1935, provided merely for a postponement of
the date of enforcement; that those companies
whieh have already completed arrangements
for storage will be encouraged to carry stocks
and will be assigned larger sales quotas; and
that the question of price increases was
still under discussion.
The Standard-Vacuum and Rising Sun
companies consider the decision of the
Japanese Government to be entirely unsatis-
factory, and have informed the Vice-Minister
of Commeree and Industry that their directors
will be surprised and disappointed to learn
that the position of the foreign oil com-
panies has received so little consideration.
In the opinion of the foreign oil companies
there has been a departure from the five-
point agreement arrived at in April of this
year

=== Page 319 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
year. The companies consider that the
outlook in regard to storage obligations,
import and sales quotas, and prices is less
favorable now than at the time of the April
agreement.
The oil companies have referred the
matter to their home offices.
894.6363/213
v
WTT/DLY

=== Page 320 === (confidence 0.94)
7E
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
EA
Tokyo, October 4, 1935.
TE
No. 1506.
()
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
Instructing to
Soudon
894.6363
FAR EASICAN AFFAIRS
of
1935
nas
OFFIDE OF FCOMOM
OCT 31 1935Y
DEPARTMENT UF SI-.E
894.6363/213
Imdm
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
211
No.1482, dated September 20, 1935, in regard to tho dif-
ficulties being experienced by the imerican and other
foreign oil interests in Japan because of the provisions
FLED
of the Petroleum Industry Law and its accompanying re-
gulations, and to report the following developments in
the situation.
On September 23, 1935, Mr. Kojima, the Chief of
F/FG
the

=== Page 321 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
the Mining Bureau of the Department of Commerce and
Industry, summoned the local representatives of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petro-
leum Company to the Ministry, and there informed them
that there had been no change in the law in respect
either to the obligation to hold six months' stocks
in storage or in the obligation to carry increasing
stocks in storage as the demand for oils grows; that
the new Ordinance (that of September 18, 1935; Embassy's
211
despatch No. 1482) provided merely for a postponement
of the obligation to store six months' stocks; that the
Government in the meentime will consider meusures to
enable all the companies to carry six months' stocks
without difficulty, but that the plans had not yet
sufficiently matured to be discussed officially; that
those companies which have already completed arrange-
ments to carry six months' stocks will be encouraged to
carry such stocks, notwithst: nding the postponement
provided for in the new ordinance; that the injustices
resulting from the fact that some companies will thereby
be carrying six months' stocks and others only three
months' stocks will probebly be correcteu by ssigning
larger quotas to those companies carrying six months'
stocks; and that the question of an increase in the
price of gasoline was still under consideration.
After the meeting referred to above, Mr. Kurusu,
the Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the
Foreign Office, telephoned to Mr. Mocrao of the British
Embassy and Mr. Dickover of this Embassy, stating that
Mr.

=== Page 322 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Mr. Kojima had not been in a position to discuss the
oil question thoroughly with the representatives of the
foroign oil companies; that it was therefore feared that
the oil companies' representatives might convey n erro-
neous impression to their head offices; end that, before
they had telegraphed their head offices, if they so de-
sired, Mr. Kurusu would arrange with the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry to discuss the whole question
confidentially with the ropresentatives. This suggestion
was immediately conveyed to the representatives of the
foreign oil companies, who, however, referred the matter
to their head offices, at the same time quoting briefly
the gist of Mr. Kojima's statements. The head offices
approved of the conferences with Mr. Kurusu and the Vice
Minister for Commerce nd Industry and instructed the
local representatives to st nd firmly on the basis of the
five-point agreement reached last April between the Japa-
nese officials and the special representatives of the
foroign oil interests.
On September 27, 1935, the representatives of the
two foreign oil companies met Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry at the Foreign
Office. Mr. Yoshino informed the two representatives that:
1. In accordance with its undertaking with the
special representatives of the oil companies last April,
the Japanese Government has considered the question of
reducing the storage obligation to three months' stocks,
but for reasons of national defense and to provide for
emergencies, the Government concluded that it would be
necessary

=== Page 323 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
necossary to store six months' stocks. This decision
is subject to modirication only in case a plentiful
supply of crude oil is discovered in Japan or success
is obtained in the liquefaction of coal.
2. The cost of carrying three months' stocks
must be borne by the oil companies, they having carried
nearly this amount in the pest as working stocks. The
Dopartment of Commerce and Industry will endeavor to obtain
the approval, by l te October or early November, of the
Finence Ministry to the inclusion in the budget, for
adoption by the Diet, of en emount for compensation re-
presenting six per cent on the capital employed in erecting
the storage tanks and the purchase of the oil, plus other
carrying charges, for the additional three months' stocks.
It is possible that either the Finance Ministry or the
Diet will approve only part of this compensation, say
two months' storage charges only, in which case the cost
of carrying one month's stocks will have to be covered
by an increase in the price of gasoline.
3. The matter of an increase in the price of gasoline
has become & social question and consequently the Govern-
ment must continue for the present to fix prices. With a
view to minimizing any unfavorable reaction on the part
of the public and in order not to prejudice the Finance
Ministry against compensation for the storing of oil,
the Department of Commerce and Industry desires that no
advance in the price of gasoline be made until the
question of compensation is settled by the Finance
Ministry

=== Page 324 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
Ministry, when the Department of Commerce end Industry
will approve an increase in the price of gasoline
covering en advance on account of economic factors s
well as an advance for any uncovered portion of the cost
of carrying the second three months' stocks.
4. The compensation mentioned cannot start until
the beginning of the next fiscal ye r on April 1, 1936,
and therefore other means must be found for compensating
those companies which will have completed their six
months' storege obligation by October 1, 1935. The
Government consecuently intends to permit the absorption
of the slack refining capacity in a shorter period then
that formerly contempl: ted, which will result in tempo-
rarily largerquotas for such companies. The importing
(foreign) companies therefore will receive something
less than the one-third of the netural increase pre-
viously greed upon, and at worst will receive none of
the increase.
5. The Government recognizes that the foreign oil
c ompanies were not in a position to qualify for equal.
consideration with the Japanese companies on October 1,
1935, becaus• of the understanding arrived at last April
that they should not be forced to incur any expenditures
for stock-keeping until their position had been made legal.
Therefore the new ordinance was so designed as to permit
them to qualify for the larger quotas by bringing their
storage up to six months' stocks as soon as possible,
and if the foreign companies signify their intention of
so doing, the Government will allow a reasonable time,
8ay

=== Page 325 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
say three or four months, for building the tanks,
without forfeiting their claims to the quota benefits.
Mr. Kurusu asked the representatives of the foreign
oil companies to keep the above information confidential.
He stated that the Japanese oil companies had not been
given the information, and that any publicity at the
present time might creste difficulties in accomplishing
the plan for compensation for stock-keeping.
The representatives of the foreign oil companies
informed the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry
that their directors would be greatly surprised and
disappointed that the position of the foreign oil com-
panies had received so little consideration, because
the outlook as regerds the storage obligations, import
and seles quotas, and prices was much less favorable
than was indicated in the five-point greement(Embassy's
despatch No. 1253, pril 19, 1935), which the special
representatives had regarded as the minimum which the
Japeneso Government would accomplish for their relief.
Mr. Yoshino explained that the departure from the five-
point agreement was due to the subsequent decision of the
Government to adopt compensation measures to cover the
cost of stock-keeping.
Mr. Kurusu and Mr. Yoshino added that, in their own
opinion, the plan of holding increasing stocks as the
demand inoreases is impracticable end must eventually
be altered in some way. Mr. Yoshino also stated that the
Kwantung Government had approved the use of the Dairen
tanks of the two foreign oil companies, temporarily, at
1oast

=== Page 326 === (confidence 0.98)
-7 -
least, for the purpose of storing oil as a part of
the stock-keeping obligation for Japan Proper. The oil
companies presume that this means that they can use
their D: iren tanks indefinitely, unless some unusual
emergency should impel the Kwantung Gover ment to take
over the tanks for its own use.
The Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun
Petroleum Company consider the decision of the Jap nese
Government, as given above, as entirely unsatisfactory.
The present plan does not relieve the companies from
the burden of investing further large sums in Japan
for the erection of storage facilities and the purchase
of storage oils, end in the present uncertain status
of the Japanese merket the oil companies have consistently
refused to consider the investment of more capital in
the country. Moreover they do not consider that any
part of the carrying charges of stored oil should be
borne by increased prices, as this method of compen-
sation is too uncertain to be of value. Also, the com-
panies were given to understand, last April, that they
would be granted a portion of the natural increase in
demend for petroleum products (about one-third) and et
the same time were assured that they would not be re-
quired to incur any expenditures for stock-keeping
until the regulations had been altered and their position
(that of holding only three months' stocks) legalized.
The componies consider it most unfair for the Japanese
Government now to take advantage of the fact that they
are carrying, under the above agreement, less than
81x

=== Page 327 === (confidence 0.96)
- 8 -
six months' stocks, to give them less than one-third
of the natural increase previously agreed upon.
The local representatives of the foreign oil com-
panies have referred the matter to their head offices,
end it is expected thet representatives of the compenies
will confer with the Department of State in Weshington
and the Foreign Office in London. The Embassy will keep
the Department informed of any further developments
in the situation.
Respectfully yours,
Edin Z. nwith
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'ffaires d interim.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 328 === (confidence 0.96)
Novemrer 4 1935
no.1013
To the Ameriean Ambassador,
Londen.
The Seeretary of State refers to previous correspondense
in regard to the oil situation in Japan and encloses, for the
information of the Ambassador, copies of despatohes from the
894.6363/213
Ameriean Embassy at Tokyo, as indicated below, which relate
to recent developments in the situation under referenee.
Enclosures:
From Rmhassy, Tokyo,
dospa sch No. 1482,
September 20, 1935;
From Embassy, Tokyo,
despatch No. 1506,
October 4, 1935.
111
894/6363/213
FE:ROM:REK
10/30/35

=== Page 329 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
RECEIVED
Jil
NOV 7 1935
Leter to
Divisia
11cd wx. 23. 3x
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Mr. Parker
NOV-41935
nso New York, Nov 4-35
Department of State
Dr Stanley K Hornbeck
State Dept.
Would appreciate midafternoon appointment Wednesday or Thursd
for G S Walden and myself in connection with petroleum control law
894.6363/214
Japan
P W Parker
26 Broadway
1.25pm
894.6343
NOV: 7 1935
FILED

=== Page 330 === (confidence 0.94)
DCR
November 4, 1988.
894.6863
Dear Mr. Parker:
In askmowledging the reseipt of your telegrem of
894.6363/214
Nemmber 4, I may say that I shall be glad to see you and
Mr. Waldem in regard to the Petroleum Control Law in Japen
on Wednesday aftermoon at three o'eloek. Should that hour
mot be convenient to you, I would suggest that upen your
arrival in Washington you take the matter up with my
effiee by telephone (Distriet 45l0, Branch 39).
Sineerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chief,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
Standard-Vaeuum O1l Compamy,
26 Broedway.
I tree cowy d
New York, New York.
FE
FÉ

=== Page 331 === (confidence 0.91)
LH
7
2
SPAARERAPSTATE
26 BROADWAY
DCR
5 NOV 12 PM 3 07
NEWYORK
TE
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
October 30th, 1935.
xe
894.6363
bral acknledt
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck, Chief,
ruade  .arten
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
 Nn.6'36
Department of State,
ecu
Washington, D.C.
per
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6363/215
5463/3/212
Referring to our letter of October lst,
you may be interested in a cablegram dispatched to our
representative at Yokohama on October 29th. This reads:-
"In reply to your cable of October 28th in conjunction
with friends Directors have given most careful and
serious consideration to the Government's latest change
in control law regulations STOP In line with the
prolonged negotiations last winter Directors are rely-
ing upon officials carrying out the program then de-
cided upon as embodied in five point memorandum."
The above was decided upon after a number
of conferences with our British friends and represents
the position we have taken in respect to the Control Law.
Sincerely yours
Ntarky
FILLED
F

=== Page 332 === (confidence 0.96)
Division of
Nov. 1, 1935.
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
NOV -2 1935
Doar Dr. Hornbeck:
DeparState
In our letter of Oct. 3lst, we stated
under Number 1, that we were not complying with the
Law. In brief, this is incorrect, as the 6 months'
stockholding provision has been postponed. Therefore
we are complying.
Consequently, I shall appreciate it
greatly if you will be kind enough to destroy our
letter of Oct. 3lst, already mailed you, and sub-
stitute the attached therefor.
Sincerely yours,
Keany
F. bor

=== Page 333 === (confidence 0.96)
FE
2
R-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
1855 NOV 12 PM 3 07
NEWYORK
October 31st, 1935.
zte
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
1101 ackuwledg ment
Dr. StanleyARt RHorfback, Chief,
made a r. faster
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Division of
 V,0. 6 33
Department of State,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
rie
Washington, D.C.
NOV -2 1935
894.6363/216
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Department of State
w
It has come to our attention that you would
like to have information in regard to heavy shipments of
oil by the Japanese from the Pacific Coast.
Our statistics indicate as follows:-
First 9 Months (Barrels of 42 Gallons)
894.6363
1935
1934
Crude
8,023,422
4,486,957
Diesel
3,455,666
2,104,749
Fuel
*3,700,503
*3.290,624
15,179,591
9,882,330
1935 Increase
5,297,261
*Including Japan-
ese Navy
2,451,972
1,781,778
July/August/September (Barrels of 42 Gallons)
FLED
1935
1934
Crude
2,613,280
1,347,947
Diesel
1,194,755
581,834
Fuel
*965,949
*1,107,647
4,773,984
3,037,428
1935 Increase
1,736,556
*Including Japan-
ese Navy
622,572
745,082
It is assumed that shipments for the balance of this
year will be approximately in the same ratio as the First Nine Months,
and if this is the case, the total for l935 should be slightly over
20,000,000 barrels as compared with 14,500,000 barrels for 1934. We
F

=== Page 334 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeck.
Oct. 31/35.
attribute the increased movement to three factors listed in the order
of their importance:-
1 - Japanese oil interests meeting the requirements of the
Law in respect to stockholding (elso greater storage on
the part of the Japanese Navy). However, inasmuch as the
6 months' stockholding provision of the Law has been
postponed, we and British interests are exerting no ef-
forts to build up stocks to this basis.
2 - Increased consumption of petroleum products in Japan.
3 - Heavy reduction in California Crude oil prices, which
however, has been reflected only to a very slight extent in Fuel and
Diesel oil prices.
Sincerely yours
P.N.Park

=== Page 335 === (confidence 0.98)
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
NEWYORK
October 31st, 1935.
seu coredio
Dr. Stanley K. Hornteck, Chief,
Division of
littu alew
Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
utu datt
Department of State,
NOV-2 1935
acr 31, 1935
Washington, D.C.
Department of State
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
It has come t our attention that you
would like to have informati n in regard to heavy ship-
ments of oil by the Japanese from the Pacific Coast.
Our statistics indicate as follows:-
First 9 Months (Barrels of 42 Gals.)
1935
1934
Crude
8,023,422
4,486,957
Diesel
3,455,666
2,104,749
Fuel
*3,700,503
*3,290,624
15,179,591
9,882,330
1935 Increase
5,297,261
*Includ-
ing Japanese Navy 2,451,972
1,781,778
July/August/September (Barrels of 42 Gals.)
1935
1934
Crude
2,613,280
1,347,947
Diesel
1,194,755
581,834
Fuel
*965,949
*1,107,647
4,773,984
3,037,428
1935 Increase
1,736,556
*Includ-
ing Japanese Navy
622,572
745,082

=== Page 336 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
Dr. Hornbeck.
Oct. 31/35.
It is assumed that shipments for the balance of this year
will be approximately in the same ratio as the First Nine Months,
and if this is the case, the total for 1935 should be slightly
over 20,000,000 barrels as compared with 14,500,000 barrels for
1934. We attribute the increased movement to three factors listed
in the order of their importance:-
1 - Japanese oil interests meeting the requirements of the
Law in respect to stockholding (elso greater storage
on the part of the Japanese Navy). As advised, neither
we nor the British interests are complying with this
Law.
2 - Inereased consumption of petroleum products in Japan.
3 - Heavy reduction in California Crude oil prices, which
however, has been reflected only to a very slight extent in Fuel
and Diesel oil prices.
Sincerely yours,
NPark

=== Page 337 === (confidence 0.89)
TELEGRAM SENT
-CONFIDENTIAL
eut ot State
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Waskinglon,
 NOV 14 PH
Jeyember 14, 1955.
This cable was sent in conidential Code.
It should be carefully paraphrased before
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
being communicated to anyone. B
TOrYO (Japan) . AND RECORDS
176
Representatives of Standard-Vacuum /called at/Department
on November/6 An regard to oil situation in Japan and stated
that conference was oheduled for that day/between
officials of the Japanese Foreign Office and Department of
Commeree and Andustry and Tepresentatives of/foreign oil
interests.
894.6363/216A
Did  sonference take place and if so mat were the
results?
Please telegraph Feply.
Suee
u2
894.6565/
rous
FE:ROM:EJL
FE
OB
NOV 14
MM
19
1-136
PINTING  5 104

=== Page 338 === (confidence 0.98)
9
PARTMENT OF STATE
SION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 16, 1935.
Reference Tokyo's telegram
No. 21l of November 15, 5 p.m.,
in regard to the oil situation
in Japan, --
As the results of the con-
ference of November 6 between
Japanese officials and repre-
sontatives of the oil interests
were reported to the New York
office of the Standard-Vacuum,
no aotion is required of the
Department.
The Standard-Vacuum has
promised to inform the Department
of its final decision in the
matter.
RCM:EJI.

=== Page 339 === (confidence 0.95)
51
(Rcm)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
MJP
This. telegran must be
Tolkyo
closely paraphrase&Rom
before being communi-
Dated November 15, 1935
cated to anyone.(B)
Division of
elegra. to Jhyo
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of State,
NOV 1 5 1935
Wa shing ton.
Department of State
211, November 15, 5 . m.
Departme it1s 17e,  evom er 14, 6 D.m.
894.6363/217
Che. The co forence too: lace an scheduled
for the purpose of diseussing the telegran sent
by the head officos of the foreign oil nterests
to their local re presentativos under date of
October 29 stating that t e foreign cil interests
were relying on the Japanese officials to carry out
the program eabodied in the five point memorandun
of April 13, 1935, Tis lessage was conveyed to
the Japanese officials on Fovember 2.
FILED
Two. Yoshino and Kurusu in formed the local
representativos that:
(a) The five veint remorandum represented
what the officials hopod to bo able to accomplish
in ordor to noot the viows of the foreign oil
intorests bud did not constituto a promiso.
(B) It laving boon found impossible to alter
F/FG
the

=== Page 340 === (confidence 0.98)
22
MJP -2- No. 211, Novembor 15, 5 p. m. from Tokyo
the stock holding requirements of the law a com-
nensation plan has been developed and the enforcement
of the storage provisions postponed.
(C) The six months stock holding obligation
however must be considered as fixed and beyond
further negotiation.
(D) The issue is now definite and the oil
companies nust decide whether or not to continue
trading in Japan under the present law and regula-
ti ons.
Three. Yoshino and Kurusu unofficially adced
that unusual consideration was being civen the
foreign oil companies in that they were being
permitted to participate in a Japanese compensation
plan and advised the foreign oil companies not to
refuse the opportunity being offered of maintaining
their established pos tio s in the Japanese trade.
Four. The above infor ation was cabled to
the oil companies by the local representatives
on Novembor 7.
Five. The situation now appears to be that
the Japanese Government prefers to have the foreign
oil companies continue in business in Japan but is
prepared to do without thom if they do not wish
to

=== Page 341 === (confidence 0.97)
53
MJP -3- No. 211, November 5, 5 p. m. from Tokyo
to operate under existing conditions. It is not
believed that this attitude can be considered
entirely as a "bluff" on the part of the authorities.
Six. Today the representatives of the foreign
oil companies were called to the office of the
Chief of the Mining Bureau of the Department of
Commerce and Industry who requested that the
decision of the foreign oil companies in regard
to the storage requirements be conveyed to the
Japanese authorities as soon as possible in order
that the storage compensation budget may be compiled.
He stated emphatically that there would be no dis-
crimination between foreign and Japanese companies
in the allocation of storage compensation.
CSB
NEVILLE
0

=== Page 342 === (confidence 0.90)
NAVY.DEPARTMENT
FARTMENTOFSTATE
WASHINGTON
0p-16-B-16
18-5/EF37/ID11(10-31)
1935
NOV
ionof
Noy 
RESTRICTTICOMMUNICATIONS
NOV-91935
AND RECORDE/
portut of S
L公
November 11 1935
Ly dear r. Duggan:
I take pleasure in trensmittin, herowith,
copy of a report from the Conmmndunt, 1lth Haval
District, for your infomution and fil.
894.6363
With best vi ches, I an
894.6363/218
Ver, sincorely yours,
 D. uleston
Captain,. . avy
Director or  aval Intelli ence
r. Laurence ucgan
Chief of Latin cricon .f irs
Departipnt of tate
Mashington, . c.
FUED
F
八

=== Page 343 === (confidence 0.98)
TED
Commandant's Office
ELEVENTH NAVAL DISTRICT
San Diego, California
31 October 1935
Refer to No.
ND11/EF37
(A8-Bn)
From:
Corrandant.
To:
Chief of Naval Operations.
(Director of Naval Intelli ence)
Sub ject: Organization of Japanese ov er nment control
Oil Develoment Corporation.
Enclosure: (A) Translation from Los ngeles Jupanese ily
News of news item dated Tokyo, 26 cctober
1935, re subject.
1. Enclosure (A), translated by Lieut enant .. Hacollum, . C.
Navy, details a proposed plan for the acquiring of oil fields in foreign
countries by a group of Japanese private corporations ane the Japanese
government.
2. Attention is particularly invited to the statement thet reccntly
Mexico has offered to sell oil ficlds to Japan. his appears to  e of
particular significance in view of the recent visit to Japan of former
President Abelardo odriguez of :exico. It will be recalled that Ir.
Rodriguez has long been Inown as friendly to Jepanese enter prise and that
the bulk of his land holdings are located in Lower California.
W. T. TARRANT.
RESTRICTED

=== Page 344 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
Pressed by the necessity of discovering and developing sources of oil
to support the national policy, the Department of Commerce and Industry has
decided upon the formation of an overseas oil field development corporation,
and are pressing the  ippon Oil, Okura,  itsui, itsubishi and other private
companies to jointly furnish the capital for such an organization with the
government agreeing to furnish an annual subsidy equal to one half the ex-
penses of operation; and it is expected that the  reasury opartment will
agree to the overnment em pendi tire imolvec by inclu in the necessary
amount in the supplementary bulget for next year. (Fiscal year 1936 - 1937).
The plan of the bepartient of Jonmerce un. Industry onvisaces oil sur-
veys in Central and South nerice and in th region of th: South eas by the
new corporation and the acquisition by it of romising oil  earin: areas.
The areas proposed to be investigated by h new orranization vill center in
Mexico, which has recent ly made n orfor to sell oil : reas to Japan; investi-
cations vill then extend to colo ie, cuador, runtina an other locations
in South America and to orneo, Juve, etc., in th  outh eus area.
RESTRICTED
NCLOSURE A
(Clipping from Japanese Hewspaper)

=== Page 345 === (confidence 0.91)
November 1 1955
 dear Gaptain Puleston:
I wish to thank you for your letter of November
lss, trammitting a translation of a olipping from
894.6363/218
& Japamese nevepaper regarding the formation of a Japamese
easperatiom fer overseas oil field development.
sinserely yours,
Laurenoe Duggan
mptmin W. D. Paleston,
et avel Intelligence,
Bavy Department,
Sashingtom.
FE
A true copy
n.m.
the alg
sal.

=== Page 346 === (confidence 0.96)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.00 PR/94
despatch #1515
SEE
FOR
Japan
Neville
Oct.18,1935
FROM
) DATED
TO
NAME
1-1187
894.6363/21
REGARDING:
American oil interests in Japan.
691
1v
2
二

=== Page 347 === (confidence 0.98)
I. RELATIONS WITH THE UNITED TATES.
(a) American Oil Interests in Japan.
By an Imperial Ordinance dated September 19 and by
reguletions issued subsecuently by the Department of
Commerce and Inaustry, the date on which oil companies
operatin in Janan must h: ve in tora e six months'
supplies of oil was postnoned fron Jctober 1, 1935, to
June 50, 193o, providin the oil corpanies shell obtain
permission for such postponement fro. the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry.* on sentember 27 Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Hinister for Commerce and Industry, and Mr.
Kurusu, the Chief of the Commercial Burecu of the Foreign
Office, informed renresentatives of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company anc the Risin Sun Fetroleum Company (British)
that the Japanese Government hed decided that the oil
companies in Japan must store six montns' stocks for
reasons of national defense and to provide for emergencies;
that the oil companies must bear the exnense of carrying
three months' stocks but tnot the Department of Commerce
and Industry would endeavor to provide some compensation
for the cost of keeping the additional stocks of three
months; that the foreiin oil companies would receive as
quotas less than one-third of the natural increase in the
demand for oil instead of the one-third agreed upon in
pril, 1935;**
and that those oil comnanies which had
completed their six months' storee requirement by
October 1, 1935, vould be granted larger quotas than
those which had not.***
The representatives of the two
foreign companies expresseu to Ar. Yoshino and Mr. Kurusu
their emphatic disapproval of the arrancement outlined to
them
Embassy's despatch No. 1482 of 3eptember 20, 1935.
**
Embassy's despatch No. 1253, of April 19, 1935.
**
Embassy's despatch o. 1506 of October , 1935.

=== Page 348 === (confidence 0.86)
. 2 -
thom because it failed to neet the promises contained in
the five-point agroeent errived at in april.

=== Page 349 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 27, 1935.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1534 of November 1,
1935, antedates by two weeks the Embassy's
latest report on the oil situation in Japan
as embodied in its telegram No. 2ll of
November 15, 5 p.m.
The Embassy's despatch under reference
amplifies reports previously received by
the Department in regard to this subject
but adds little of importance except state-
ments to the effect that (a) the Japanese
Government has sanctioned an increase of
2-1/2 sen per gallon in the price of gaso-
line and (b) the Shell, Standard and Texas
Companies are contemplating the acquisition
of a Chinese oil company.
The statement (see concluding paragraph
of despatch under consideration) in regard
to item (b) is far from clear. Apparently
it envisages relieving Japanese oil companies
of surplus stocks which stocks would in turn
be used to assist in supplying that portion
of the Japanese market served by the foreign
oil interests. Just what bearing this de-
velopment has on the principal item at issue,
1.e., the Japanese Oil Control Law, is not
made clear.
reene
RCM:EJL

=== Page 350 === (confidence 0.92)
EMBASSY OF THE
RCm
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 1, 1935.
No. 1534.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
Division of
894.6363
SS
cosy seu
5 Lmdm
sc 6 '35
PE SATE
nou
PM 10
(se /226
EED
4
935 NOV 1
894.6363/220
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
No. 1506, of October 4, 1935, in regard to the operation
FTED
of the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law, and the dissatis
faction of the foreign oil companies with the arrange-
ments made by the Government authorities in this con-
nection, end to report further developments.
On Ootober 26, the Embassy is informed, the represen-
tatives of the domestic and foreign oil companies were
called
F/FG

=== Page 351 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
called to the Department of Commerce and Industry and
informed that the Government had sanctioned an advance
of 2-1/2 sen per gallon in the price of gasoline, to be
effective on November 1. The coapanies were told by the
Vice Minister that, in reaching its conclusion, the Govern-
ment had in mind the encouragement of domestic refining;
that this price increase was considered under present
conditions sufficient to cover increased refining costs,
and that, unless the Government plan for compensation
fails to cover the costs of the second three months
storage requirements, or unless other unforeseen events
intervene, it should be adequate. Apparently this is
the increase promised conditionally on September 27, last,
and reported in the despatch under reference (items 2 and
3 on page 4). No further information seems to have been
given the oil companies as to the plans of the Ministry
of Finance for compensation for storage costs.
The foreign oil companies telegraphed this inform-
ation to their head offices, and also asked their opinion
regerding the Government oil plan as set forth in the
interviews of September 27 and October 26. The oil com-
panies, or at least the American oil company, are now
in receipt of a reply from their head offices to the
effect that the directors have given careful and serious
consideration to the Japanese Government's latest
change in control regulations, but that they are relying
on officials to carry out the program embodied in the
five point memorandum(Embassy's despatoh No. l253 of
Apri1 19, 1935).
The

=== Page 352 === (confidence 0.99)
- 8 -
The Acting Manager of the Standard Vacuum Oil
Company came to the Embassy on October 31 and conferred
at some length on the oil situation. He said that he
proposed to inform the Department of Commerce and Industry
in  riting of the Directors' reply and to await develop-
ments; that he had no other course open to him. He said
that the British company would do the same.
He then told me that the Japunese companies had sur-
plus stocks of by-products from their refining operations,
some of which were being exported; that the Standard,
Texas and Shell interests were contemplating the acguisition
of the Kwanghwa Company, a Chinese concern that seems to
have some dealings, actual or prospective, with Japanese
oil companies who wish to dispose of such surplus stocks
by exporting them to china. He said that it might be
possible for the Shell and Standard Companies to pur-
chase for their Japanese trade the surplus kerosene and
other refining by-products of the Japenese companies;
that he thought a profitable arrangement might be made
along these lines. Such arrangement would relieve the
Japanese companies of surplus stocks which they cannot
now dispose of to advantage in the face of outside com-
petition. It would also relieve the foreign companies
in Japan of the necessity of importing these products,
and might so operate as to enable them to ask for higher
gasoline quotas because of reduced kerosene and other
petroleum imports. He said that he was instructed not
to

=== Page 353 === (confidence 0.95)
-4 -
to make advances in this direction until the Depart-
ment of Comnerce and Industry had indicated its atti-
tude towards the reply of the directors referred to
above.
Respectfully yours,
Etam P.haill
Edwin L. .eville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim.
863.6
ELN:r

=== Page 354 === (confidence 0.94)
THE UNDEN BECRETARY
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
111035
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
November 6, 1935.
TRCM
1.1
Mr. John Goold, Standard-Vaouum Oil Company;
Junte. toSousm, tolayo
Mr. Hornbeok;
sle
Mr. Dooman;
uon.18.1435
894.6363
Mr. Mackay.
X
Subjoct: Oil situation in Japan.
894.6363/22
The above-mentioned representatives of the Standard-
Vaouum Oil Company called at the Department and from
3 p.m. to 6:15 p.m. there were discussed various problems
which now confront the foreign oil companies in Japan as
a result of the recent announcement that on and after
July 1, 1936, all oil interests in Japan will be required
to carry in storage stocks equivalent to a six-months'
supply.
Mr. Parker stated that after consultation with Mr.
Agnew of the Shell oil interests, who, following a visit
to New York, is due to arrive in London this evening, the
F0
Standard-Vaeuum informed its senior representative in
Japan to the effeet that it was relying upon the Japanese
authorities to carry out the five-point program agreed
upon
F/G

=== Page 355 === (confidence 0.98)
一 8 -
upon last April; that an official of the Japanese Govern-
ment had indicated that such a statement was not an ade-
quate reply to the Government's announcement of the re-
vised regulations; that he (Mr. Parker) and his associ-
ates did not know whether to "sit tight" and thus foroe
the Japanese Government to make the next move or whether,
oither through Mr. Goold, who will shortly return to
Japan, or a company director, who would proceed to Japan
from New York, or through the Department and the Embassy
at Tokyo, they should inform the Japanese Government to
the offeet that, under the conditions now envisaged by
the Japanese authorities, the Standard-Vaouum would not
be prepared to continue operations in Japan. Mr. Parker
stated that a conference had been arranged to take place
today between representatives of the Japanese Foreign Of-
fice and of the Department of Commeroe and Industry, on
the one hand, and of the foreign oil interests, on the
other hand, and that he had hoped that the Embassy at
Tokyo had informed the Department by telegraph in regard
to the results of that conferenoe. Mr. Parker was in-
formed that the Department had not received frem Tokyo a
report of the conference. Mr. Parker added that even a
definite offer from the Japanese Government to provide
compensation equal to the carrying charges on three-
months'

=== Page 356 === (confidence 0.99)
一3-
months' stooks would not settle the question as the
Standard-Vaouum could not, in view of its world-wide
interests, afford to set such a precedent; and that in
any event the company was not prepared to make additional
outlays of capital in Japan. Mr. Parker also stated that
the Shell interests were similarly minded.
Mr. Parker then referred to the recent visit to New
York of Mr. Agnew, who, on the day of his departure for
London, and following a conference with the British Ambas-
sador in Washington, suddenly switched from his original
position of agreeing with views of the Standard-Vaouum
that what had happened in Japan would very likely happen
in North China, to a position in whioh he believed that
"China would remain for the Chinese". Mr. Parker expressed
the opinion that Mr. Agnew's change of view must have been
caused by the receipt from London of news of important de-
velopments in China and that, as Mr. Agnew would, upon ar-
rival in London, consult immediately with the British
Foreign Ofrice, the British Embassy in Washington would
in all probability be instructed to approach the Depart-
ment in regard to the general situation under discussion.
Mr. Walden referred to the oral statement of the
Japanese authorities that the new regulations for the
storage of oil will be made effective "for reasons of
national

=== Page 357 === (confidence 0.98)
一 4 -
national defense" and expressed the view that, under the
conditions named, the new regulations are in contraven-
tion of that part of the American-Japanese Treaty of 19ll
which accords to the citizens of both countries freedom
from "military exactions or contributions". Mr. Mackay
replied that the treaty provisions cited by Mr. Walden
would seem to afford a basis for representations to the
Japanese Government, but added that the conoluding para-
graph of Artiole 7 of the treaty under reference (this
paragraph was read to Mr. Walden) may complicate the situ-
ation and that in any event a further approach to the
Japanese Government on purely legalistic grounds would
seem to hold forth little hope of attaining the desired
onds. Mr. Walden and Mr. Goold agreed that a charge of
treaty violation would in all probability prove to be
ineffeotive.
Mr. Parker stated that the Standard Oil Company of
Now Jersey holds in the United States and, in conjunotion
with the Shell interests, throughout the rest of the
world, except in Germany, the patent rights for the manu-
facture of oils by the hydrogenation process; that Japa-
nese interests have long desired to acquire these patent
rights for use in Japan; that, although it is probable
that the Japanese will, within the next few years,
aoquire

=== Page 358 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
aoquire sufricient knowledge in regard to the hydrogena-
tion process as to render unnecessary the aoquiring by
them of patent rights, the Standard oil interests are re-
luotant to offer the process to the Japanese Government
as a quid pro quo for the elimination of the objectional
features of the Oil Control Law. Mr. Parker indicated,
however, that an offer of the process to the Japanese
Government might cause the Japanese military authorities
to agree to a modification of the existing regulations.
The conversation then turned to the question whether
it would be advisable to cease negotiations with the Japa-
nese civil authorities and to go direot to the military
authorities with a full erplanation of the situation as
viewed by the foreign oil interests and with a statement
that, if satisfactory remedial action is not taken by the
Japanese Government, the Standard-Vacuum reluotantly will
be forced to cease operations in Japan. (No deeision on
this point was reaohed.) Mr. Dooman at this point of-
fered the suggestion that the Standard-Vacuum might care
to consider the advisability of associating itself with
such Japanese interests as may be prepared to shoulder
the costs incident to the maintenance of six-months' sup-
plies in return for an appropriate participation in the
Standard-Vacuum's business in Japan. Mr. Parker replied
to

=== Page 359 === (confidence 0.98)
-6 -
to the effeot that, prior to the promulgation of the Oil.
Control Law, consideration was given to the question of
Japanese participation in the company's business in Japan
but that under existing conditions such partieipation
would seem inadvisable.
Mr. Parker stated that, with a view to avoiding fur-
ther capital outlays and at the same time continuing to
do business in Japan, it might be possible for the
Standard-Vacuum to reduce their operations in Japan to a
point where the company's existing storage facilities
would be considered by the Japanese authorities as suf-
ficient to accommodate a six-months' supply of oil. He
added that suoh a procedure would entail a 30 per cent
out in the Standard-Vacuum's trade in gasoline and a 49
per cent cut in its trade in fuel oil and that, insofar
as the calendar year l936 is conoerned, it would mean an
almost complete stoppage of business on July 1, l936, as,
for all practical purposes, the company's quotas would at
that time have been exhausted.
Mr. Parker referred to the old question of embargo-
ing oil shipments to Japan as a step in retaliation
against the Oil Control Law and expressed the view that
it would be impossible to cause American exporters of oil
to adhere to such a policy unless pressure on the part of
the

=== Page 360 === (confidence 0.98)
一7 -
the American Government was brought to bear. (This view
was concurred in by all present.) There then ensued a
general disoussion of this phase of the situation in the
course of which reference was made to the conversation
which took place on August 23, 1934, between Secretary
Iokes, Sir Henri Deterding, Mr. Teagle and officers of
the Department of State. Mr. Hornbeck suggested that,
inasmuch as subsequent developments might alter decisions
previously reached, Mr. Parker and his associates might
care, during their stay in Washington, to call upon
Secretary Ickes. Mr. Parker replied that it seemed best
that he and his associates return immediately to New York.
He added that final decision in regard to his company's
future policy in Japan would have to await the receipt of
further reports, expected momentarily, from Japan and
also an opportunity to see what, if any, approach would
be made to the Department by the British Government.
Mr. Goold, after expressing the view that the oil
Control Law is "disoriminatory", inquired whether some
means might not be employed to bring pressure by measures
of retaliation. He mentioned in particular the possibili-
ty of a more drastio control by the United States of Japa-
nese shipping and the possibility of applying to Japan's
silk trade with the United States stockholding requirements
and

=== Page 361 === (confidence 0.97)
-8-
and other restrictions similar in effeot to those which
the Japanese are imposing on the Amerioan oil trade in
Japan. Mr. Hornbeck replied to the effect that, inasmuch
as the provisions of the Oil Control Law would appear to
apply equally to all oil dealers in Japan, it might be
difficult to show it discriminatory; that the placing of
any new and special restrictions on Japanese shipping
might result only in the placing by the Japanese Govern-
ment of similar restrictions on American shipping; and
that, in view of the fact that American exports to Japan,
particularly cotton exports, are in a vulnerable position,
retaliatory measures devised against Japan might easily
have boomerang effeots.
Mr. Parker and Mr. Walden and Mr. Goold, on taking
their departure, expressed thanks for the whole-hearted
and helpful cooperation which the Department and the
Embassy at Tokyo had accorded the Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company. They also expressed regret that their call had
extended far beyond office hours. Mr. Hornbeck replied
to the effect that office hours did not exist when the
furtherance of American interests was concerned and that
he wished Mr. Parker and his associates to know that when-
over possible the Department was prepared to afford such
assistance as might be not only appropriate but also
practicable.
an
m.m.d.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 362 === (confidence 0.90)
RAL-ALL
883
Té the Ameriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Torye.
The Sessetary ef State refers to previeus eerrespond-
894.6363/221
amee in regard to the ell situation in Japan and eneleses,
fer the imfermatien of the Chargé d'affaires, a cepy of a
memeseneum of a csmversstiom whieh teok plase en Mevember 6,
199s, between representatives of the Standard-Vaeum Gil
Gompany and effieers of the Department.
Enelosure:
Mamorandum under
date Hovember 6,
1955.
naws
FE:RCM: EJL
FE
11/14/35

=== Page 363 === (confidence 0.86)
Noverber 18 1935
ALEALBSL
102/
To the Ameriean Ambasseder,
Leden.
The Seeretary ef state refers to previous serrespamé-
894.6363/221
amse is regard te the eil situatiem in Japem and casloses,
for the tafermetiam of the kabesseder, a cegy of a mome-
smmaum er a esmversetion whieh took place on Nevember .
1955, between representatives of the Standard-Yaewm Gil
Ompany emd effieers ef the Department.
Emelesure:
Memerandum under date
Nevember 6, 1955.
ew
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
11/14/35
M
1

=== Page 364 === (confidence 0.96)
24
DCR.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DEC 4-19
2
Division of
November 27
1935
1935 C 11 PM 3 29
Conversation:
cofrce s.1
To Londm and
Doky
Mr. Hamilton;
TIONS
OFFICE OF 
CER
NOV 30 1935
Mr. Mackay.
DEPARTMENT OF SINIE
Subject: Oil situation in Japan.
222
The British Ambassador called at the Department and
894.6363/222
was received by Mr. Hamilton who, on being informed that
8946363
the Ambassador wished to disouss the oil situation in
Japan, offered the suggestion, which was promptly agreed
to by the Ambassador, that Mr. Maokay be permitted to
take part in the ensuing disoussion.
The British Ambassador stated that, according to a
telegram received by him from the British Foreign Office,
the oil companies are at present engaged in negotiations
with the Japanese authorities; that the British Foreign
Office feels that the position of the oil companies in
these negotiations might be strengthened if the British
and the American Embassies at Tokyo would, in continu-
ance of the past practice of cooperation, make further
representations to the Japanese Government; and that the
objective which the British Foreign Ofrice has in mind is
to cause the Japanese authorities to revert to the program
embodied
F/G

=== Page 365 === (confidence 0.97)
s
一 2 -
embodied in the five-point memorandum of last April. The
British Ambassador added that, in the opinion of the
British Foreign Office, the precedent, which would be
established if the Japanese Government should be success-
ful in forcing the foreign oil companies to comply with
existing stockholding requirements, might prove most
unfortunate to the foreign oil interests in their aotivi-
ties in other parts of the world.
Mr. Hamilton stated that the Department would be
prepared to consider sympathetically the question of mak-
ing further representations to the Japanese Government if
1t should appear that any useful purpose would be thus
sorved; that representatives of the Standard-Vaouum Oil
Company had called recently at the Department to discuss
the entire question; and that the Department was awaiting
a statement of the company's decision and an indication
whether it desired the making on its behalf of further
representations to the Japanese Government.
Mr. Hamilton permitted the Ambassador to read the
most recent report of the Embassy at Tokyo in regard to
the subjeot under discussion (Embassy's telegram No. 2ll,
Novomber 15, 5 p.m.).
Mr. Maokay stated that, in the light of information
received by the Department, there would seem to exist
some

=== Page 366 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
some doubt whether further representations to the Japa-
nese Government would prove effeotive.
Mr. Hamilton stated that the Department would at
once communicate by telegraph with the American Embassy
at Tokyo with a view to obtaining a statement of the
Embassy's opinion in regard to the advisability of mak-
-27-35
ing further representations to the Japanese Government.
Mr. Hamilton also stated that he felt sure that the
American Chargé at Tokyo would wish, in forming his con-
olusions, to consult with the British Embassy at Tokyo
and with the senior representative in Japan of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
The British Ambassador, upon taking leave, stated
that he would expect to inform the Department of any new
developments in the situation under discussion and that,
if the Department wished to communicate with him, he
would of course be available.
NOTE: In the course of the above conversation the
British Ambassador stated that, with regard to the situa-
tion under discussion, the British Foreign Office "appreci-
ates that there are no legal or technical bases upon which
representations to the Japanese Government might be made".
FE:RCM:EJL

=== Page 367 === (confidence 0.97)
November 27, 1935.
AMDBASSY,
TOKYO (Japan).
Your 211, November 15, 5 p. m.
British Aabassador called at Department today in regard
to oil si tuation in Japan. e stated that, acoording to a
telegram received by him from the ritish oreign ffice, the
o1l companies are at present enga ed in negotietions with the
Japanese authorities; that the fritish oreigm frice feels that
the position of the oil copanies in these negotiations might be
trongthened if the British and the erican mbessies at Tokyo
would, in continuance of the past vractice of oooperation, make
further representations to the Japanese Government; and that
the objeetive whioh the British  oreign frice has in mind is to
eause the Japanese authorities to revert to the program embodied
in the five-point memorandum of last pril.
Department desires that you report proniptly by telegraph
whether in your opinion further representations should
be made at this stage and whether any useful purpose would
be likely to be served by so doing. You should of course

=== Page 368 === (confidence 0.89)
- 2 •
eensalt your British colleague and the representative in Japan
of the Standard Vaouum 11 Company.
In the ovent that you consider the akine of further
representatione advisable, please indioete your views us to the
form and substance of suoh representations.
FE:ROM:MOH/REK
E

=== Page 369 === (confidence 0.91)
59
December 9 1935
BNRINTIAL - STANL BE GELY
.1044
To the Amerieam Ambessader,
894.6363/222
Lenden.
The Seeretary of State refers to previeus eerrespend-
amse in regard to the eil sitmstiem in Japan and emsleses,
fer the iafermatien of the Ambesseder, a eepy of a mome-
pandm es & ecnversatiem whieh tock plase em November 27,
1935, between the British Ambassader at Weshingtem and
effieers of the Department; & paraphrase of telegrem No.
224 of Nevember 30, 6 p.m., frem the Ameriean Embassy at
Tekye: end a sepy ef a memerandm of a ecmversatiem whish
took plase on Deeember 2, 1955, between Mr. P. W. Parker
of the Standard-Taouum Oil Company and an officer of the
Department.
Eselosures:
/222
Mamorandum under date
November 27, 1955;
Paraphrase of telegram
Eo. 224, Movember 30, 223
S p.m., frem Embassy Tokye;
Memorandun under date
M
MlIt
Reus
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/7/35
61.

=== Page 370 === (confidence 0.92)
0
December 8 1935
TIAL - STAIL EE CGELY
.894
To the Amerisen Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
894.6363/
Tokye.
The Sesretary of State refers to the Depertmeat's
telegrem Ne. 104 of Nevember 27, 6 p.n., and to the
mbassy's telegram No. 224 ef Nevember 30, 6 p.., in
2
2
regard to the eil situatiom in Japan and emeleses, for
2
the infermetiom of the Chargé d'affaires, a eepy of a
memerandum ef a conversatiem whieh took place en Berem-
ber 27, 1955, between the British Ambassader at Washing-
tem and effieers of the Department, and a eopy of a
memerandum ef a comversatien which took place on Dsoum-
ber 2, 1955, between Mr. P. W. Parker ef the Standard-
Vaowm O1l Compamy and an efficer of the Departmemt.
Eselesures:
Memerandm under date 22
Nevember 27, 1935;
Memorandum mder date
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/7/35

=== Page 371 === (confidence 0.95)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTEO
NONOONFIDENTIAL CODE
antof State
PARTAIR
EPARTMENT OF STATE
PLAIN
Washingion,
November 27, 1955.
NOV 27 PM 5 14
60pm
AMBBASSY,
AND HECORDS
TOKYO (Japan).
184
Your/zll, November 15, 5 p. m.
British Ambassador/called/at/Department/today in regard
894.6363/222
to /oil'situation in Japan! He stated that, according to'a
telocram received by/him/from the/British' Foreign office, the'
oil 'companies/are at/present/engaged in/negotiations with/the
Japanese/authorities; that the'British Foreign Ofrice feels that/
the position of/the oil/companies/in these'negotiations'might be
strengthemed/if the/British/and the Amerioan/Embassies/at Tokyo'
would, in continuance of/the past/practice/of/cooperation, make
further/representations/to the Japanese Government; and that/
the objeotive/which the British/Foreign Office has/in mind 1s to/
cause the Japanese authorities/to revert to/the program embodied
in the/five/point memorandum of/last April.
Bepartment/desires that you teport/promptly/by telegraph/
whether im your opinion /further representations should
be madeat this stage/and whether/any/useful/purpose/would
 likely/te be served by so' doing. You should'of course'
M.,
U..   14

=== Page 372 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANGMITTED
CONPIDENTIAL QODE
Bepartment of State
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Waskingion.
mmlt yeur/British/colleague and the Tepresentative in Japan
of the Standard/Vacuum Oil/Company.
In the event that you/consider the/making/of/further/
representations advisable, please indicate your views/as to the/
form/and/substance of/such representations.
Hell
100
PE:MM:ME/REK
FE
NOV 87 1935
m.m.H.
M.,
19
1-138

=== Page 373 === (confidence 0.89)
894.6363
580119
CHARGE SLIP
841.5/51
File No.
ENCLOSURE
CG TO—
DATE
CLERK'S INITIALS
REmARkS
67748C. King
474724201
21124
222
A
hot returoed
10-30-47

=== Page 374 === (confidence 0.99)
33
TMENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 30, 1935.
Mr. Hornbeck telephoned the
British Ambassador and, referring
to the Ambassador's call at the
Department on November 27 in
regard to the oil situation in
Japan, communicated to the
Ambassador the substance of
Tokyo's telegram 224, November 30
6 p. m. Mr. Hornbeck informed
the Ambassador also that the
Department would get in touch
with the American oil companies
in regard to the matter.
MMH/REK
3.2

=== Page 375 === (confidence 0.94)
34
(RCA)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
au
Tokyo
This telegram must be
carefully psraphrased
FROMated November 30 1935
before being communicsted
to anyone. (B)
Rec'd 9:40 a.m.
yile
December 2 1935
Secretary of State
Lutu  Standand Uacuum al
Co ( Puhn) lee.2 30
Washington
Ruu
Parashiau sout  London
(/以xx
224, November 30, 6 p.m
894.6363/223
894.6363
22
Department's 184, November 27 6 p.m.
After consultation and taking into consideration
the growing interest in Japan in the increased price of
gasoline caused by the stock keeping obligation and the
intarest exhibited in Japan in the New York conference
of last October on the control of supplies of oil the
American and British Embassies and the representatives
of the American end British oil interests unanimously
agreed that the present is an appropriate moment for
further representations. It was also the unanimous
opinion that a mere inquiry or request for reversion to the
program of the five point memorandum would avail little
FUED
or nothing however, and that the representations should
be strengthened by some indication of the steps which
will inevitably be taken by the oil companies if the
more onerous provisions of the law and regulations are
not modified. It was auggested that this reenforcement
of the representations might take the form of definite
statements
F/G
1

=== Page 376 === (confidence 1.00)
35
No. 224, November 30, 6 p.m. from Tokyo
statements to the effect that the foreign oil companies
are seriously considering withdrawal from Japan or that
they positively cannot, as a commercial proposition,
agree to the carrying of six months stocks. The nature
and substance of such statements naturally will have to
be determined by the head offices of the oil companies
in New York and London.
The British Embassy 1s telegraphing its Foreign
Office in similar sense.
NEVILLE
WWC:PEG

=== Page 377 === (confidence 0.87)
36
December 2 1935
CONFIDENA
Bear Mr. Parker:
Da respemse te the request made by yeu this meraing
t the eourse ef cur comversetien by telepheme, there ss
894.6363/223
amalessd, for your dissreet wse, a parepkrase ef a canfi-
asmtéal telegrem wnéer date Nevember s0, 1sss, ressived
by the Depesrtmest frem the Ameriean Enbassy at Tekye in
regard te the sil sitmtiem in Japen.
Sinearely yours,
Stanley L. Marabeek,
chief,
Divisiem ef Far Easterm Affairs.
Eeelesure:
Parepkrase of
telegram ef
frem Mbassy Takyé.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
Stamdard-Taeuum Oil Cempamy,
DEC
26 Moadway,
Now Yerk, New York.
nos
FE:ROM:EJL
FE
12/2/35

=== Page 378 === (confidence 0.90)
37
TOITNITTITNAL
A telegrem uader date Nevember s0, 1sss, frem the
Amsriomm Mabasey at Takge, reads subetantially as
802.10181
The Amarienm and Britisk Embassies at Tekye and the
repreeemtatives ef the Amerieem end British eil interests,
after ecnsaltatien end takins into esnsideratiom the
sreving interest in Japen in the insreased prise of
easeline eaused by the steekheldins regalatiem and the
interest displayed in Japan in the New Yerk cenferense
of last Getsber in regard to the comtrel of supplies of
eil, memimsesly agreed that the present is an apprepri-
ate mement for the making of further representatiens to
the Japanese Govermment. Further, it was the wnanimous
epiniem that a mere inquiry er a request for reversion
to the pregram outlined in the five-poist memerandum
weuld be ef little or mo value and that representatiems
should be stremgthemed by seme indieatiom of the astion
whiek, if the more burdeasome provisioms of the law and
regalatioms are mot medified, inevitably will be takem by
the eil eempanies. The suggestion was made that the
strengtheming of the representations might take the ferm
of defimite statements to the efreet that the foreigm eil
interests are ecmsidering serieusly withdrawal frem Japen
os

=== Page 379 === (confidence 0.94)
38
-2-
er that the earrying of six-menthe' stesks is a matter in
sapard to whiek they definitely carmet, as a commereial
prepesitiem, agree. Naturally, to the heed effiess ef
the eil cempasies in New Yerk and Lenden would have to be
lefs fer determimatien the nature and substanee of sush
statemests.
The Britich Foreign Office is being informed by
talegram in a similar sense by the British Embassy at
Tokye.
FE:RCM:EJL
12/2/35

=== Page 380 === (confidence 0.94)
TELEGRAM SENT
TIAL CODE
NONOONFIDENTIAL OODE
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washingien,
06
This cable was sent in confdantial Code.
3DEC
December 11, 1955.
6pm
COMMUNICATTONS
AND REUORDS
TOKYO (Japan)
194.6363/223
194
894.6363/223
Reference your/224, November 30, 6 p. m.
Department informed /standard-vacuum on December/2/of
contents of your telogram under referencer Standard-vacuur
by/telephone message and Letter December 9/informed us/or-
preeedures which they/and their British'colleagues in London
hed under Aisoussion? Standard-vacuum erpressly asked for
eur /oemments or suggestions/on one point, a point especially
coursrD
involving assistance by/American Embassy? In giving bur-
comment today/ by/telophone,/we ascertained that/Standard/
Vaeuum last night sent a tentative instruction to its
representative in Japan? The upshot will probably be further
diseussien between the representatives in Japan/or the two
interests/and further bonsultation /between the respective/
interests/and their respeotive/embassies.
In the light of/the above, Department wishes that you
participate in disoussion of any /points/whieh may be brought
to your attention and wheroin you deem participation by you
appropriate but that you/take no repeat no steps or approach
647
the Japanese Goverament or Japanese firms without first

=== Page 381 === (confidence 0.89)
40
TELEGRAM SENT
lepartutent of State
Washinglon,
fally informing Depertment of developments up to the point
where the interests ask Embassy's assistance and receipt by
such
you of further instruotion'from Department.
We have informed'standard-Vacuum,'New York, 'of the
contents of this' telegram, and they accept full responsibility
for any misunderstanding that may have been 'occasioned by their
telegram of yesterday 'to their'ropresentative in Japan.
Hee
SCH
0111935
mo6
FE

=== Page 382 === (confidence 0.96)
TELEGRAM SENT
ARTMEN OF STATE
Washingion,
DEC 12PM 52
Deoember 18, 1935.
TOKYO (Japan).
196
223
AND RLOORDS
Department's l94, December 11, 6 p.m.
894.6363/223
In continuation, 
Department/in course of/giving comment/by telophone'
ressed the view/that, if the companies wish to/try to'
conelude/a trade with/the Japanese Government, governmental/
agoneies', especially/American, should not/ropeat'not/be'
assseiated with/the idea or the/aotion relating thereto;
that we/have/no repeat/no objeotion to an effort/by the
companies to take the/matter/up/directly/with Japanese
commeroial interests and through/the latter/with Japanese
official'agencies; that if the /companies/seek through the
mbassies/introduotions/to the Japanese/military authorities,
we could/only/instruot our/Embassy to/appreach the/Japanese/
Foreign office/on the subjeet; that we/doubted the advisability
of bompany representatives/expressing to'Japanese ageneies/
sympathy with/the Japanese /objective/and of/their'saying/to
the/Japanese/that the/heads/or the/companies/here/would be
prepared to proceed to/Japan/again to carry/negotiations to
a'eonelwsion. We /intimated that/our views/were in/line with

=== Page 383 === (confidence 0.93)
42
TELEGRAM SENT
TO BE TRANSMITTED
CONFIDENTIAL CODE
Bepartment of State
PARTAIR
PLAIN
Washingion,
these expressed'in the Embassy's telegram'224, November 30,
6 p.m.
With/standard/vacuum's'assent, we have/today/conferred
with other 'departments /in regard to the/oompanies' projeot
of/orfering'a/process/in trade/ and it/has been/decided
that te will/take ofricially/no/repeat no position/either
in/approval/or/disapproval/thereor.
Standard-Vacuum/has not repeat not furnished/us/a
copy of/its/instructions/to 1ts representative/in Japan/
or given us/any further/word.
Hee
SKS
n.m.st. ney
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
✓
M.,
1-188

=== Page 384 === (confidence 0.90)
TELEGRAM SENT
TDENT OF STATE
This cable
Washinglen,
Deoember 1s, 1955.
lla
COMMUNICATION
Department has received this morning copy of those
894.6363/223
instructions and an amendment thereto of Decembey ll.
Hee
SKH
223
894.6363
35
VB:SKH/ZK
FR
19.
1-120

=== Page 385 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR
RECWASHINGTON
DFFARTMENT
STAT
November 30, 1935.
PAH
1935
N OF
MN
IONS
ember
A
894.6363
dear Mr. Secretary:
894.6363/224
ASSISTANT
R this memorandum to me from the Director of the Bureau of Mines.
I think you will be interested in it. Will you please return
it to me when it has served your purpose.
Sincerely yours,
Ars  stunt Seotstary
Haured . St hs
DEC13 1935
Secretary of the Interior.
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State.
DEC 16 1935
FILED
Enc.
1
F/G

=== Page 386 === (confidence 0.99)
JOPY
UNITED STATES
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Bureau of Mines
WASHINGTON
November 26, 1935.
Memorandum to Secretary Ickes:
In answer to your request of November 25 concern-
ing exports ofoil to Japan, I am pleased to send you here-
with two tables, one showing the quantity and declared value
of exports of crude oil, gasoline (in bulk), gas oil, and
fuel o1l by months for 1935 through October; the other show-
ing the domestic price range for those particular oils for
the period September 1934, througl October 1935. Comparable
information on exports and declared value for 1934 is not
available in Washington. Exports of the other classes of
oils to Japan are virtually negligible.
In general, California export prices, which are
based on quotations at Los Angeles, are lower than domestic
prices because domestic prices are based on quotatios at
San Francisco, which are higher than those at Los Angeles
by the difference in transportation costs. Furthermore,
the export values cover contract shipments in bulk whereas
the domestic prices generally cover tank-car lots, and may
not be representative.
You may be interested in knowing that Japan is
believed to have sufficient oil in storage to last at
least twelve months. It has been estimated that current
military stocks are in excess of 3,500,000 barrels.
JOHN W. FINCH,
Director.
Inclosure 409457

=== Page 387 === (confidence 0.99)
PY
Monthly average domestic prices of the principal oils in California
(Sept., 1934 - Nov., 1935)
Crude oil
Gasoline
Gas oil
Fuel oil
(270 Signal Hill
(540-580U.S.
(Diesel oil
140=180
at wells)
Motor 437 E.P.
27 plus)(per
Bunker
at refineries
barrel)
(per bar-
(cents per
rel)
(per barrel)
gallon)
At San Joaquin Valley
1934
Sept.
1.00
7.50
1.10
0.6500
Oct.
1.00
7.50
1.10
.6500
Nov.
1.00
7.50
1.10
.6562
Dec.
1.00
7.50
1.10
.7000
1935
Jan.
1.00
7.50
1.0625
.8000
Feb.
1.00
7.50
1.050
.7000
Mar.
1.00
7.50
1.125
.7375
Apr.
1.00
6.00
Apr. 1-18
1.200
.7750
Apr. 19-301
1.27
.80
May
1.00
6.75
1.25
.80
June
1.00
5.4825
1.29
.80
July
1.00
5.00
1.275
.80
Aug.
.97
4.75
1.275
.80
Sept.
.50
4.40
1.275
.80
Oct.
.50
4.25
1.27
.79
Nov.2/
.80
5.92
1.25
.775
New basis - prices for gas oil and fuel oil are at Los Angeles
2 Up to November 18.

=== Page 388 === (confidence 1.00)
Exports and value of shipments of the principal oils to Japan, 1935
Jan. Feb. Mar.
Apr. May
June July
Aug. Sept
Oct.
Crude petroleum:
Thousands bhls.
399 819 1,143
865 1,039
992 883
882
651 1,174
Thousands dollars
478 979 1,368 1,038 1,234 1,192 1,073 1,096
637
843
Val ue per bb1. 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.19
1.20 1.22 1.24
.98
.72
Gasoline in bulk:
Thousands bbls.
70 112
111
85
83
173
704
Thousands dollars 162 293
280
196
163
395 1,574
Value per bbl. 2.32 2.61
2.52
2.31
1.95
2.28
2.24
Value per gal. .055 .062
.06
.055
.046
.054
.053
Gas oil and
distillate fuel oil:
Thousands of bbls. 461 155
705
196
429
610
269
305
748
488
Thousands dollars 542 173
764
214
561
647
299 340
836
532
Value per bbl. 1.18 1.12
1.08
1.09 1.31
1.05
1.11 1.12
1.12
1.09
Residual fuel oil:
Thousands bbls.
534
443
484
309
195
104
316
307
312
703
Thousands dollars
466
377
416
276
175
91
272
261
295
570
Value per bbl.
.87
.85
.86
.89
.90
.87
.86
.85
.95
.81

=== Page 389 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
naher 7 1935
In reply refer to
FE 894.6368/224
My dear Mr. Seoretary:
I acknowledge, with thenks, the receipt of your
letter of November 30, 1936, transmitting a memorandum,
with enclomures, in regard to exports of oil to Japan.
The information contained therein is, as you
surmised, of interest to mo and I appreciate your courtesy
894.6363/224
in bringing it to my attention. I venture to suggest that
if you have not already done so you also afferd the
Secretary of War and the Seosstary of the Navy an oppor-
tumity to read the memramdum.
In accordanee with your request the memorandum, with
enclosures, is returned herewith.
Sincerely yours,
Cordell Hull
Enclosure:
Memorandum.
The honorable
Harold L. Ickes,
Seoretary of the Interior.
NIT
CA
14N
FE:WTT/DLY
FE
S
cry
12-5-35

=== Page 390 === (confidence 0.91)
DCR
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
(krm)
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
November 22, 1935.
Conversation:
Decemrer 2 1935
Mr. Philip M. Broadmead, First
Seoretary, British Embassy;
Carbon cohy
sent to  Phullife
sde
by ti Jrombecle
Mr. Hamilton;
135
eerr.
Mr. Mackay.
Cofice
CUMM
AN
Subject: Oil situation in Japan.
suntto
Tokyo and
nowr
4
Smdon
Mr. Broadmead called at the Department and was re-
revs
ferred by Mr. Hamilton to Mr. Mackay. Mr. Broadmead
stated that the British Embassy in Washington had re-
894.6363/225
ceived from the British Foreign Ofrice in London a re-
quest to oall at the Department to ascertain whether, in
view of the recent announcement of the Japanese Govern-
ment of its intention to insist upon the carrying in
storage by all oil dealers in Japan of a stook equiva-
lent to a six-months' supply, the American Government
would be prepared to instruct its Embassy at Tokyo to
make, in concert with the British Embassy at Tokyo,
"suoh representations to the Japanese Government as may
seem possible and desirable". Mr. Broadmead stated that
STLED
his instruction from London did not include any informa-
tion beyond a brief statement of the Japanese Government's
decision to insist on the storage of a six-months' supply
:of oil and that it offered no suggestion as to the basis
upon

=== Page 391 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
upon which representations to the Japanese Government
might be made.
Mr. Mackay replied that although he oould not speak
for the Department he believed that the Department would
wish, as in the past, to cooperate whole-heartedly with the
British Foreign Office in an endeavor, by the use of all
appropriate and practicable means, to arrive at a satisfac-
tory solution of the oil problem in Japan; and that, if the
British Government had any suggestions to offer with regard
to the basis, either legal or treaty or otherwise, upon which
further representations to the Japanese Government might
appropriately be made, such suggestions would receive
sympathetio consideration by the Department.
Mr. Broadmead stated that he was not very familiar
with the oil situation in Japan and Mr. Mackay, upon re-
quest, sketched briefly important developments which
oulminated in the recent announcement of the Japanese
Government, as indicated above, and the request of a
representative of the Japanese Department of Commerce
and Industry that the decision of the oil companies in
regard to storage requirements be conveyed to the Japa-
nese authorities as soon as possible.
Mr. Mackay also stated that representatives of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company had called recently at the
Department; that the possibility of further action on
the

=== Page 392 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
the part of the Amerioan and British oil interests and
their respeotive Governments had been disoussed; that no
decisions of importance were reached; that the repre-
sontatives of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company had stated
that they were continuing to cooperate and consult with
the representatives of the Shell interests; and that,
following the receipt of further reports from Tokyo,
they would endeavor to arrive at a final decision which
would be communicated to the Department. Mr. Maokay
added that it was the opinion of all present at the con-
ference under reference that, unless there seemed to
exist a real possibility of obtaining at least a partial
modification of the objectionable features of the Oil
Control Law, the question would arise whether any useful
purpose would be served by the making of further repre-
sentations to the Japanese Government.
Mr. Broadmead thanked Mr. Mackay for his explana-
tion of the situation and stated that if the British
Government had any suggestions to offer he would expeot
to inform the Department in regard thereto.
reau2
ROM:EJImm.W.

=== Page 393 === (confidence 0.82)
December 2 1935
MIZIAL-TALLL
1032
To the Amerieen Ambassader,
Lamden.
894.6363/225
The Sesretary of State refers to previeus cerrespemé-
aase ta regere te the eil sitmtiem in Japem and emelesss,
fur the infermation of the kmbassader, a eopy of a mome-
mséms of a esnversetien which tesk plase en Nevember 22,
Isss, betweea the First Seeretary of the British mhessy
at Waskingten and esfisers of the Department.
MIRTL
FE
n.m,H.

=== Page 394 === (confidence 0.91)
December 2 1935
GOHEIREETIAL - STAKE UBE CELY
.890
To the Ameriean Chargé d'Affaires ad interim,
Tokyo.
894.6363/22
The Sesretary of State refers to previous correspond-
emee in regard to the eil situatiom in Japan and eneloses,
for the information of the Chargé d'Affaires, a copy of a
memerandum or a comversation which took place on Novem-
ber 32, 1955, between the First Seoretary of the British
Embassy at Washington and officers of the Department.
5
Enelosure:
Memorandum under
date November 22,
1955.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
11/27/35
N
111
CR
938

=== Page 395 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Docember 6, 1935.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1554 of Novem-
ber 19, 1935, in regard to the oil situa-
tion in Japan supplements, but does not
materially add to, the information con-
tained in the Embassy's telegram No. 2l1
of November 15, 5 p.m. :
Although no action is required of
the Department beyond that of transmitting
to London a copy of the despatch under
reference, it is suggested that, in view
of the importance of the subject under
disoussion, the despatch be read in its
entirety.
new
RCM:EJL

=== Page 396 === (confidence 0.89)
(ray
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, November 19, 1935.
No.1554.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
sel
Division of
bcember 9 1935
C coby on
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
HEC5-1935
the 626
Department of State
Rou
GECTATE
ASSIIARDHUELA
894.6363/226
22
2
EE
P
EENT
4
1935 010
1.01
No
Endhn
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
DEC 88 1935
Washington.
FILED
874 2631
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's de-
spatch No. 1534, dated November 1, 1935, and to pre-
vious correspondence on the subject of the operation
of the Japanese Petroleum Industry Law and its effect
on American oil interests in Japan, and to report the
following developments in the situation.
/220
As was reported in despatch No. 1534, the local
representatives of the Standard and Shell oil interests
were informed, in the latter part of October, by their
head
1L

=== Page 397 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
head offioes that the directors of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company had
given most careful and serious consideration to the
(Japanese) Government's latest change in the control
law regulations, and that, in line with the prolonged
negotiations last winter, the directors are relying
on the Japanese officials to carry out the program
then decided on, as embodied in the Five-Point Memo-
199
randum (Embassy's despatch No. 1253, dated April 19,
1935). After consultetion with their Embassies, the
local representatives of the oil interests conveyed
this reply of their directors to the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry under date of November 2,
1935.
On November 6, 1935, the local representatives
of the two oil companies were celled to the Ministry
of Commerce and Industry, where they met Mr. Yoshino,
the Vice Minister, Mr. Kojima, the Chief of the Mining
Bureau, r. Sakai, the Chief of the Fuel Section, of
the Department of Commerce and Industry, and Mr. Kurusu,
Chief of the Bureau of Commercial Affairs, and Mr.
Hogetsu, one of his assistants, of the Foreign Office.
The conversation had to do principally with the reply
of the directors of the companies, transmitted to the
Japanese officials on November 2. In brief, the local
representatives were informed that the Five-Point Memo-
randum did not constitute a promise to alter the law
and regulations, but merely represented what the ofri-
cials hoped to be able to accomplish in order to meet
the

=== Page 398 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
the wishes of the foreign oil companies; that the six
months' storage provisions of the law and regulations
would have to stand and vere beyond further negotiation;
that instead of altering the law to provide for three
months' storage they had introduced a comnensetion scheme
and had postponed the enforcement of the six months!
storage obligation in order to give the foreign com-
panies time to comply; and that it now devolves upon
the foreign oil companies to indicate whether or not
they desire to continue trading in Japen under the pro-
visions of the law. Unofficially the Japenese officials
pointed out that unusual consideretion was being given
to the foreign oil companies in that they ere being al-
lowed to participete in the compensation scheme, although
Japanese tredition and custom was entirely against paying
any sort of subsidy or compensation to alien firms. Mr.
Yoshino also advised the foreign companies to take ad-
vantage of the opportunity being presented of maintain-
ing their established positions in this market and not
to take any action which would jeopardise those posi-
tions. A copy of the minutes of the conversations is
enclosed herewith.
An examination of these minutes reveals the fact
that, although the Japenese officials would seem to pre-
fer that the foreign oil companies continue their business
in Japan (vide Mr. Yoshino's advice to the local repre-
sentatives on page 2 of the minutes), they did not appear
to be greatly perturbed at the prospect that the foreign
companies might decide not to continue in business here
under the onerous conditions imposed by the law and re-
gulations. This is implied in their direct request that
they

=== Page 399 === (confidence 0.99)
-4-
they be informed what the foreign companies intend to do.
It is believed that the Japenese authorities have come
to think that, as long as crude oil supplies continue
to be available in unlimited quantities, it vill not be
difficult for the Japenese oil refiners to expand their
cepacity rapidly in order to meet the situation should
the foreign oil companies decide to abandon the field.
It is reported that some of the Japanese oil companies
alreedy have plans made, but not officially approved,
for such expansion.
The gist of the conversations vas transmitted to
the head offices of the companies by the local repre-
sentatives on November 7, 1935. On Noverber 15, the
local representatives of the oil companies ere called
to the office of Mr. Kojime, the Chief of the Mining
Bureau of the Department of Commerce and Industry, who
informed them that it was desired that the foreign oil
companies indicate their intentions in regard to the
storage obligation at the earliest possible moment, as
it wes necessary for the Dep:rtment of Commerce and In-
dustry to compile the budget for compensation for oil
storage as soon as possible. This information was also
cabled to their head offices by the local representatives
of the Standard and Shell interests, and a reply was re-
ceived to the effect that an answer in regard to the
storage question would be despatched to the local repre-
sentatives in the early part of the week beginning Novem-
ber 18. At the time of writing this answer has not been
received.

=== Page 400 === (confidence 0.95)
- 5 -
The attitude of the Japanese Government being as it
is, it is difficult to see what further diplomatic action
can be taken in the premises. It appears to the Embassy
that the issue is now squerely placed before the oil com-
panies for final decision.
Respectfully yours,
Edui. .Thaitl
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosure: Memorendum of Minutes of Meeting
of November 6, 1935.
863.6
END:r

=== Page 401 === (confidence 0.98)
NOTES OF LEETING HELD AT DEPARTENT OF COM-
MERCE & IDUSTRY ON NOVIMBER 6th, 1935.
PRESENT:
Messrs.Yosnino (Vice-.inister of Comnerce & Industry)
Kurusu & Hogetsu (Foreign Office)
Kojima (Head of Mining Sureau)
Sukei(Head or Fuel Section)
Messrs. Ely (R.S.P.Co.) and Meyer (S.V.O.C.)
Mr. Yoshino (speaking in nglish) suiu that, es-
pecially in view or the statement he hud made on 27th
September at the Foreign Office, he had not been able
fully to grasp the meaning and urport of the telegram
from the Directors which Messrs. ly and Meyer had
transmitted to him by letter on nd .ovember. The
message referred to the Five Point .emorandum and he
had therefore asked all those officials who had attend-
ed the meetings ith the Directors to be present: could
Messrs. Leyer and ly elucidate it further?
Messrs. Meyer und ly confirmed thet Ir. Yoshino's
previous statement haà been transmitted in full to London
end New York: they themselves had received no other com-
munication than the telegram they had passed on to Mr.
Yoshino but they felt that it was clear that their Direct-
ors were disappointed to find that the position as stated
by ir. Yoshino anpeared to differ, in respect of both
stock-holding and quotus, from that envisaged in the dis-
cussions they had had, but that the Directors anticipated
that the arrangements covered by the Five Point Memo-
randum would eventually be carried out as promised.
Mr. Kurusu said that the Directors evidently over-
estimated what officials like r. Yoshino and himself
could eccomplish. The Five Point Memorendum represented
what they had hoped to do with a view to meeting the
wishes expressed by the Directors. They had done their
best but they had not been able to have the Law changed
and they had made it clear in their discussions with the
Directors that they could not promise to do so. He him-
self had repeated this later to representatives of the
Embassies and he had brought with him and would like
Messrs. Meyer and Ely to read a copy of a letter he had
received from r. Neville of the U.s. Embassy (vide
Official Memo No. 16) covering the conversation they had
had.
Mr.

=== Page 402 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Mr. Yoshino vert on to say that he took it that the
principal point the Directors had in mind when sending
their messuge was the six months' stock-holding oblige-
tion. Although on two previous occasions, first by Ir.
Kojime cnd then by himself, the position hed been cleurly
and precisely stated he had sked Messrs. ly and Meyer
to come to this meeting so thnt  could guin confirm
to them definitely t''  Law could not be altered
in resrect to t e six ontns' obligation: the Govern-
ment hed lowever deci ed to pay comrene tion  inst the
cost of stock-holaing and, tiking into consideration all
the cireunstances involved,  a ost oned the enorce-
tent of the full obli ' :on for & periou in order to en-
able all companies to comply with it. A  saw it, the
issue wus no uite strui ht-forwar en the oreign com-
panies must aecide mether they ould continue truding
in compliance with the Law as it stood. The Goverr..ont
would like to knor us coo: s possiule vhat the foreign
companies intended to do, especially as his Department
.as even no orking on the question or trade guotas
for next year.
He thererore asked Messrs. Moyer nd ly to aavise
their Directors accordin ly, emphusizing ti at although
such guestions as those o uotus could be discussed
the stock-keeping suestion s "ironclad" ana must be
regarded as bein beyond negotiation. In confirmttion
he had had ofricial letters ritten to them in the name
of the Head of the Mining Dureau whicn he would hand to
them after .r. Hogetsu hed tr nslated them verbally
(trenslation attached).
After he ring the contents of the lotters messrs.
Ely and eyer promised to trensmit them, together vith
Mr. Yoshino's remerks, to their Directors. Lr. Yoshino
suggested that they should add their own views and re-
minded them thet as representatives of the companies in
Jepen they had distinct resoonsibilities under the Law
as well es their Pr ncipals: as en eside, he added that,
vere he in the position of being responsible for the
Compenies' interests he :ould not reconmend giving up
the opportunity presented of maintaining their estub-
lished position or taking any ection that would jeo-
pardise it. r. Yoshino was reminded by Messrs ly
and Meyer that, apart from the stock-holding question,
the outlook in regard to prices and quotas wes far from
reassuring to the foreign companies: also thet they con-
sidered it entirely incdequate that the interim compen-
sation to holders of six months' stocks should be given
in the form of quotas directly at the exnense of com-
panies who were not law breakers, with the result that
the latter's quotas might be reduced to below the minimum
promised. To this the reply was that the matter of prices
had

=== Page 403 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
had been doult with und that the circumstances necessi-
tating compensation for stock-holding in the form of
more generous quotas were special :nd unforeseen.
he meesing ended vith  statement crom r. Yo-
shino that, although the final anproval of the iet
hed to be obtained loter, by the end of Lovember or
the be i i of Decembur the cover nt exoected to
be cble to tate prec . ely the e. : o' compensation
tnoulubeiven
le ost of stocn-mol.
to hich ir. Kurusu ded thet the foreign companies
should not overlook th? cI consiaeration which
was being given to th  nection ith the com-
pensation lan. That t culi be permitted to par-
ticipate in it  i  ce  the custom and tradition
that Gover v ub idies could not be aid to other
nationcls ,  ruet, due very lyely to he co-
stant rep seitations made by r. Yoshino une him-
self end he hoped thet the Directors vould appreciute
that, although it  as impossible to cna ge the stock-
holding stipulations or the Luw, tley hed really ac-
comolished a great deal on pehulr or the oreign con-
panies. mr. urusu su este that such a good result
might not have been ucnieved if other inaividuals
held the ositions occupied by mr. Yoshino and him-
self and curried on the negotiations ith the foreign
com nies or if, since the discussions vith the Di-
rectors, he und ir. Yoshino hua been re leced by others.

=== Page 404 === (confidence 0.98)
TRANSLATION OF JAPANESE LETTER.
FROM: Shinichi Kojima: Head, Mining Bureau DATE: 6th Nov.1935
Department of Commerce and Industry.
TO:
Mr. T.G.Ely, Managing Director
The Rising Sun Petroleum Co., Ltd. Ju-ko-otsu No.12051
Yokohem.
Dear Sir:
e acknovledge receipt of your letter of znd
November eddressed to the vice-Minister of the Depart-
ment of Commerce and Inaustry.
Ve consider that the romark concerning the so-
called "Five Points memorandum" in the cable you have
received from the Directors of your nome office, hich
was quoted in your suid letter, in erfect refers to
Paragraph 3 of the Five items of juestions pointed out
at our discussion held on the l3tn pril of this year.
In regard to this point, ve have to suy that, by
Imperial Ordinance lo. 272 ana Conmerce and Inuustry
Department Ordinance o. 5 duteu 19th Septeaber, we
have mede it clear that no modification vill be mede
regarding the obli etion or olaing oil stocks of six
months und at the s me time in order to avert offenses
against law e have taken meesures for giving a reason-
able extension of period for the enforcenent of the
stock-holding, as you kno. it that time,e : sked
your favor of coming to this orfice und verbally re-
quested you to co unicate to the Directors of your
home office that the stock-holuing be performed accord-
ing to the provisions of the law.
e therefore i il to see the real purport of the
cabled reply you have received from your 'ome office
Directors and co seguently ve heve vitten this letter
confiri the above.
Yours P: Ithfully,

=== Page 405 === (confidence 0.90)
December 9 1955.
.1042
DIVI
EUK
la
101935
ros
To the Amerieem Ambessador,
Leméon.
The Sesretary of State refers to previees cerrespemé-
amse in segard to the eil situntiem in Japen and, in com-
894.6363/
meetiem therewith, emcloses, for the isfermatiem of the
Imbesseéer, eopies ef despatshes from the Amerieem
Rmbessy at Tokye, as indieated belew.
226
Emelesures:
Apr11 19, 1935, with
emelesures;
Frem Embassy Tekyo Ne. 1854, /220
November 1, 1935;
From Eabassy Tokyo No. 1554, /226
Nevember 19, 1955, with
enelesure.
894.6563/226
C
m.N
neuL
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/6/35

=== Page 406 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAREEASTERN AFFAIRS
DEEARTMENT OF STATE
Decomber 2, 1935.
1935 DEC 5 PM 3 29
sut 5 Lndm
Conversation:
of Toky
Mr. P. W. Parker, Standard-Vacuum
SECKEIAK
Division of
ees
COMMUNICATIONS
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
sel
Mr. HdinbeckiDs
DEC5-1935
Department of State
Subject: Oil situation in Japan.
894.6363/227
Following an unsuccessful attempt made on November 30
to form contact by telephone with the New York office of
the Standard-Vaouum Oil Company, Mr. Hornbeok this morning
telephoned Mr. Parker.
Mr. Hornbeck stated to Mr. Parker the substance of
telegram No. 224 of November 30, 6 p.m., from the American
Embassy at Tokyo, which telegram, in brief, reports the
unanimous agreement of the American and British Embassies
and the American and British oil interests that the pres-
ont is an opportune moment for the making of further repre-
sentations to the Japanese Government in regard to the oil
FILED
situation in Japan.
Mr. Hornbeck then reverted to that portion of the
telegram under reference which states the opinion that
further representations to the Japanese Government would
be of little, if any, value unless coupled with a state-
ment to the effect that (a) the foreign oil companies are
considering seriously the question of withdrawal from
Japan;
F/G

=== Page 407 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
Japan; or (b) that, as a commeroial proposition, the oil
companies cannot agree to the carrying of stooks equiva-
lont to a six-months' supply. Mr. Hornbock stated that
this appears to put squarely up to the concerned oil interests
the problem of deciding on what course they wish to proceed.
Mr. Hornbeck inquired whether Mr. Parker had seen an
article on the oil situation in Japan which appeared in a
reoent issue of the CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR and in which
the authoress, in addition to displaying considerable knowledge
of the subject, stressed the probability that the question
would be solved by means of a compromise. Mr. Parker said
that he would look up the article.
Mr. Hornbeck, in reply to an inquiry by Mr. Parker, said
that the British Ambassador at Washington had called recently
at the Dopartment to discuss the oil situation in Japan but
that at the time of that call neither the Ambassador nor the
Department was in possession of the information contained in
the Embassy's telegram of November 30.
Mr. Parker thanked Mr. Hornbeck for the Department's
cooperation and requested that the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
be provided with a copy of the Embassy's telegram under
reference. Mr. Hornbeck stated that the substance of the
Embassy's telegram would be sent to Mr. Parker at once.
(NOTE: A paraphrase of the telegram was mailed to
Mr. Parker today).
reews
3.m.W.
RCM:SKH:EJL

=== Page 408 === (confidence 0.97)
44
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
AU
Tolyo
This telogram must be
carefully paraphrased
FROM
Dated December 13, 1935
before being communicated
to anyone. (E)
ste
Rec'd 9:25 a.m.
20 to Jolkgo
Division of
FAR LASTERN AFFAIRS
Secretary of Stat
Jashington
Department of Stare
240, December 13, p.m.
1223
223
Department's 194, December 11, 6 p.m.; and 196,
December 12, 6 p.1.
One. The oil companies will send a letter tomorrow
894.6363/228
morning to the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry
with a copy for Kurusu stating derinitely that 'they
cannot undertake any extra capital expenditure beyond
that envisaged in the five point memorandum" and
proceeding to offer to trade on some terms the hydrogen-
ation process for a confirmation of the program of the
five point memorandum.
Two. After having done this the companies will
FILED
endeavor to interest the Mitsuis and possibly other
Japanese interests in the proposition.
Three. The local representatives of the companics
hope that their reply to the Japanese Governntent can be
supported by some sort of diplomatic representations.
The British Ambassador states that he is prepared on
the strength of instructions already reccived to discuss
the situation informally with Hirota in the early part
of

=== Page 409 === (confidence 0.99)
45
AU -2- #240, December 13, 6 pom. from Tokyo
of next week. He proposes to state to Hirota that ho
had thought that the oil problom had been settled by
the agreement reached last April; that he regrets that
it appears that the problem at present is no nearer a
solution than it was a year ago; that there is no
political angle to the question but purely as a commorcial
proposition the oil companies cannot see their way clear
to investing large sums in Japan to carry six months
stocks; that the oil companies are offering a construc-
tive proposal by moans of which the Japanese Government
can assure itself of a steady supply of oil without
imposin; heavy storage requirements on the companies;
and that, the details of this proposal have been laid
before the appropriate authorities.
Four. I suggest that this Embassy be authorized
to take early opportunity to call on the Minister  Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs expressing disappointment
that a settlement could not be reached on the basis of
the five point memorandum; stating that the American oil
interests find it impossible under the conditions imposed
by the law to undertake the additional expenditure en-
tailod by storing six months stocks; and requesting the
good offices of the Foreign Office in obtaining a re-
consideration of the matter in the light of the companies'
position.
WWC:HPD
NEVILLE

=== Page 410 === (confidence 0.94)
NT OF OTATE
Washingten,
C 13 PM 6 19
December 15, 1985.
anyone..
7pm
DIVISION OF
COMMUNICATIONS
TOKYO (Japan).
AND RLOURDS
199
Your 240, December 13, 6 p. m., paragraph four.
894.6363/228
Assuming that/your/proposed action/will be adequately
coordimatda'as to/substance/and timing with indicated action
of the British Ambassador, the authorization which you/suggest/
is given? You should/guard against/the Japanese/authorities/
mining the impression that/the American Government is in'
any way associated with the proposal which the oil/companies/
have/in contemplation? If you/make to/those/authorities/any/
reference to the proposal, you should/avoid any/mention of the
express/substance/thereof/and should/make clear/the/non repeat/
mom/assoeiation of/your/Government/therewith.
Huee
894.6365/228
PE:SKH:B0H/REK
FE
1-128

=== Page 411 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE
894.00 P.R./95
FOR
#1542
FROM
Japan
(Neville
...) DATED
Nov 11, 1935
894.6363/
TO
NAME
1-1187
American oil interests in Japan, as affected by the monopoly.
REGARDING:
229
FRG.
2

=== Page 412 === (confidence 0.98)
(b)
American Oil Interests in Japan.
On October 23th the representatives of the Jananese
4.636
and forein oil commanies were sumnoned to the Department
of Conmerce and Industry and informed that the Japanese
Government had sanctioned an increase of 2-1/2 sen
(annroximately
*
The Embassy's despatcn :o. 1517 of October 19, 1935.

=== Page 413 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
(approximately .075 cents in merican money) per rallon
in the price of casoline, to be effective on November lst.*
This information was reported by telegraph to the head
offices of the foreign oil companies, which replied to the
effect that, although careful consideration had been given
to the Japanese Government's latest chan e in oil control
regulations, the Directors of the companies were relying
on the Jepanese authorities to carry cut the procram
embodied in the five-point menorandum agreed to in
Aつril, 1935.**
The renresentative of the tandard Vecuum Oil Company
told the Charcé d'ffaires on October 3lst th.t he proposed
to advise the Department of Jommerce and Industry of the
reply received from his virectors and to await developments.

=== Page 414 === (confidence 0.95)
l
Division of
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Department of State
DEC1
December 13, 1935. Cofy 3 Inkm
854.6
OIL SITUATION IN JAPAN.
eaus
Conversation with Mr. Parker, December 1l
tacer
Reference, Mr. Parker's letter of December 9.
On Docember 9 Mr. Parker called me on the telephone
894.6363/230
from New York and gave me in brief the substance of views
whioh were in prooess of exchange between the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company and British oil interests concerned
in relation to the situation in Japan. His letter of
December 9 brought us enclosures relating thereto.
On the afternoon of December ll I called Mr. Parker
on the telephone and read to him a statement of whioh a
copy is here attached.
In reply to the question whether the British interests
had already sent to their representative in Japan their
apparently proposed telegram of December 4, Mr. Parkor
replied in the affirmative.
FILED
In reply to the inquiry whether this meant that thome
interests, with the conourrence of the British Government,
did not now desire that there be at this time further
governmental representation, Mr. Parker replied in the
affirmative.
In reply to the inquiry whether Standard-Vaouum would
authorize us to consult with our Navy and War Departments
about the proposed trading of the hydrogenation process,
F
al
Mr. Parker replied giving that authorization.
In

=== Page 415 === (confidence 0.98)
- & -
In the course of the conversation Mr. Parker stated
that his company had on the evening of December 10 cabled
an instruotion to its representative in Japan along the
lines of the draft of cable to Agnew dated December 6.
He said that in the light of the statement that I had read
to him he would send an amendment.
With regard to the meaning of the expression in
Standard-Vacuum's draft cable "discriminatory tariffs",
Mr. Parker said that that referred to discrimination between
Japanese oil interests and foreign oil interests.
In supplement to our propared statement, I pointed out
that the course now in contemplation by the New York and
London offices of the companies differs from that recommended
by their representatives in Japan with the concurrence of
their respective Embassies. Mr. Parker replied that it
does but that they still have under consideration the other
course as an ultimate possibility. I then made the observa-
tion that what they are now oonsidering amounts to an inter-
mediate step. Mr. Parker replied that that was correot.
I inquired whether Mr. Goold (Standard-Vacuum's Japan manager,
now in New York) had been consulted. Mr. Parker replied that
Mr. Goold had "been in on" their conferences.
Mr. Parker suggested that we instruct the Embassy in
Tokyo to be prepared to take steps toward effecting intro-
ductions if and when asked by Standard-Vaouum's representative
there to do so. I replied that I did not feel that we should
g1vo

=== Page 416 === (confidence 0.97)
一 3 -
sive suoh an instruotion; that it would better accord with
our practice for us to await a telegram from the Embassy
saying that it had been so approaohed and giving us an
account of the situation at that time, if and whem, where-
upon we could promptly telegraph back such instruotion as
might then be appropriate.
At the conclusion of this conversation, during whioh
Mr. Mackay was present in my office, I drafted an instruction
to our Embassy in Tokyo (Department's telegram l94, December 11,
6 p.m.) and again called Mr. Parker on the telephone. I told
him that in the light of his statement that his offioe had
already instructed its Tokyo representative, we were giving
our Embassy in Tokyo a brief account of what had transpired
here and were instructing them to participate in conferences
but to take no action vis-à-vis Japanese authorities without
having first fully informed Department of developments and
having received from the Department further instruction.
Mr. Parker said that we would all have to await developments.
FE:SKH/ZK

=== Page 417 === (confidence 0.98)
Statement hereunder, approved by the Secretary, was read by
Bormbeek to Mr. Parker, Standard-Vacuum Company of New York,
ember 11, 1935.
December 11, 1955.
.1√
Proposed Statement to be made to Mr. Parker of Standard-
Vacuum Company by Tolophone.
(Referenoe, Mr. Parker's letter of December 9.)
It was our understanding, on the basis of the tele-
gram from our Embassy in Tokyo whioh we gave Standard-
Vacuum last week, that the companies' representatives
and the two Embassies in Japan felt that the moment was
opportune for further official representations.
Are we correct in assuming that the telegram dated
London December 4 from the British interests has been sent
to Yokohama as their instruction to their representatives
in Japan?
If so, it would seem that the British interests, with
the conourrence of the British Government, do not now
desire that there be at this time further governmental
representation.
With regard to the question of trading in the
hydrogenation process, -- the Department feels that any
effort which the interests may desire to make to conolude
a trade with the Japanese Government should be entirely
on the responsibility or the interests. We feel that
foreign governmental agencies, especially the American
Government, should in no way be associated with the idea
or the action relating thereto. As to the political effeet
of such an offer and/or transaction, if concluded, we
feel

=== Page 418 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
feel that it would strengthen Japan in certain oourses of
action by Japan of whioh other governments do not
approve. In that conneotion, we would like, with Standard-
Vacuum's authorization, to discuss this feature with our
Navy and War Departments. May we have such authorization?
In addition, we greatly doubt whether the offer, if made,
will get the results desired. If it so proves, the net
result would be to increase the self-confidence of the
Japanese and weaken the position of the companies.
If the companies wish that the Embassies give intro-
ductions for their representatives toward conference with
the Japanese military authorities, all that we could do
would be to instruct our Embassy to approach the Japanese
Foreign Office on the subject. We would not wish to go
direotly to the Japanese military authorities. We would
wish to make it understood to the Japanese Foreign Office
that any aotion we take must be with that office and with
its knowledge.
We have no objection to an effort by the companies
to take the matter up direotly with the Mitsuis and to
try to persuade the Mitsuis to arrange for the conferences
envisaged. We oannot advise with regard to choosing
between the Mitsuis and possible other companies. Ir the
matter is first taken up with the Mitsuis, and if that
approach should fail of satisfactory results, it might
possibly be found more difficult for us thereafter to take
the matter up with the Foreign Office.
WO

=== Page 419 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
We are not very happy over a portion of the draft of
Standard-Vacuum's proposed cable to Agnew. We peroeive
no good reason why American representatives of an Amerioan
company should express "our sympathy with what we think
are intended to be the real objeotives they (the Japanese)
wish to attain; that we are offering our suggestion of
hydrogenation assistance with the thought that we would
thus be cooperating with them towards attaining such
objeotive . . . . in making their coal supplies readily
available for petroleum manufacture" whence "they would
always have under their own control during an emergenoy
a substantial source of constant supply". We do not think
that that sounds well, and we doubt whether the Japanese
would think highly of it.
In the nert sentence, we think there should be inserted
after the word "arranging" additional words "through the
Foreign Orfice".
We doubt whether it is advisable to say to the Japanese
that "the heads of the companies here will be prepared to go
to Japan to conolude the matter". We think that the companies
might weaken their position if they let it appear that they
are too greatly worried over the possible outoome.
We do not understand just what is meant, at the end of
the draft, by "disoriminatory tariffs".
WO

=== Page 420 === (confidence 0.97)
wreel that, all said and done, this matter is going
to be decided by the Japanese on the pasis of their
estimate of the relative advantages and disadvantages to
them of having the foreign oil oonpanies in or out of
Japan; and that the best chance that the companies have
of getting a decision favorable to them would lie in a
definite threat by them to yithdraw. Please refer back
to the telegram of last wak and note what the representa-
tives of the companies together with the two Embassies
said on that point. It seems clear to us that the inter-
ested foreign parties in Japan are af an opinion different
from that apparently held by the Britiah interests in
London, presumably with concurrence of the British Govern-
ment, and the American interests in New York) C
Our views,
2
unofficially, fall in with those expressed from Tokyo.
(NOTE: In the light of exchanges during the reading
of the earlier parts of this statement, the paragraph
above was not read to Mr. Parker.)

=== Page 421 === (confidence 0.94)
zle
Division of
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Department o State
Copy 5 Londom t
443DEC 161
204 .16'3s
OIL SITUATION IN JAPAN
nous
DIVIBION UF
. Parker of the Standard-Vaouum oalled me on the
telephone this morning and said that his office had re-
ceived from its representative in Japan a telegram stat-
ing that a plan of action had been agreed upon in Japan
894.63
and that the American Embassy was informing the Depart-
ment and asking for an authorization. Mr. Parker asked
3
whether we had received word. At that moment there was
65
brought in to me Tokyo's telegram 240, December 13, 6 p.m.
1
2
I told Mr. Parker that word had just arrived and that the
3
incoming telegram gave me the information whioh he had
just given me. He asked whether we would be able to
instruct the Embassy to act as suggested. I read to him
the substance of the fourth paragraph of the Embassy's
telegram and asked whether aotion on that line was what
he had in mind. He said that an instruction by us to the
Embassy to follow that course would be gratifying. I
FJED
said that I thought we could give such instruction and
that we would at once take the matter under consideration.
Mr. Parker said that he was personally by no means
confident that the offer of the hydrogenation process
would have the effect sought, but they wished to try it.
I
F

=== Page 422 === (confidence 0.96)
-2 -
I said that if the offer were made, the Amerioan Government
could be in no way associated with it; that he would recall
the inquiry whioh I had made in our conversation of Decem-
ber 1l asking authorization to disouss the question with
other departments of the Government, and that it had been
deoided that we would take no position with regard to the
proposed offer either by way of approval or by way of
disapproval -- but that we could not be assooiated with it.
Mr. Parker said that he understood our situation.
I thanked Mr. Parker for his letter of December 12,
received this morning, and told him that we had at once
informed Tokyo of its receipt and that I would now immediately
take up the matter of a reply to the newly arrived telegram
from Tokyo.
FE:SKH/ZMK
FE
2

=== Page 423 === (confidence 0.89)
December 18 1935
ALTA
902
To the Amerieen Ambassador,
Telye.
The Seeretary of State refers to the Department's
telegrem Ne. 199 of Desember 15, 7 p.m., and to previous
894.6363/
eesrespendense in regard to the eil situatien in Japen
and emaleses, for the tnfermatiem of the Ambesssder,
coptes ef tme memeranéa under date Deeember 13, 19ss,
whtek relate to eenversations between Mr. P. W. Parker
2
of the Standard-Vasuum Oil Company and an effieer of
3
the Department.
Enelesures:
1230
Twe memeranda umder
1231
date Deeember 13, 1935.
894.6363/231
 nH
eus
210
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/16/35

=== Page 424 === (confidence 0.88)
December 18 1935
SRIAL-STAIL UBI GELY
1050
Te the Amerieen Ambesseder,
Lemien.
The Seeretary of State refers to previeus eerrespemé-
amee in regard to tho eil situation in Japan and emeleses,
fer the tafermatiem of the Ambassader, eepies of twe
memeremde mder date December 15, 1955, whieh relate to
894.6363/231
eemversetioms between Mr. P. W. Parker of the Stardard-
Vaemm Oil Compamy and en efficer ef the Departmemt.
7
Eselosures:
Twe memeranda under
dete Deeember 13, 1935.
894.6365/231
we
040.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
12/16/35
-14

=== Page 425 === (confidence 0.94)
FE
2
ROOM 1411
REGEVED
26 BROADWAY
December 9, 1935.
DEFARTMENT OF STAT
NEW YORK
此
1935.
ridged
acknm
1935 DEC 16 AM 11 18
CDOI
slue
Raus
Dr. Stanley K, Hornbeck,
Department or State,
Washington, D.C.
894.6363/232
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Confirming my telephone conversation,
I enclose draft of message which was despatched to
London. I also attach copy of message from London,
dated December 4th, which sets forth the views of our
friends there and to which our message is in effect a
reply, offering a slightly different presentation .
We have been informed by the New York
representative of London friends that the British
Foreign Office are prepared to instruct their Tokyo
Embassy to cooperate along the lines of their (Lon-
don friends) message of December 4th.
You will note that in our message we
state the British and American Embassies are prepared
to assist our Yokohama people in arranging introduc-
tions to Naval or Military authorities if required.
I hope, after consideration, that you will feel the
Government can aid us to this end, but in view of
our telephone conversation I appreciate you may wish
to offer some counter suggestion on this point.
I repeat that if you think it in any
way desirable for any of us to go down to washington,.
please feel entirely free to command us. I shall
FJET
await a telephone call from you on Tuesday after
you have had an opportunity to go over this letter.
Sincerely yours
P.A farke
PWP:H
F/G

=== Page 426 === (confidence 0.97)
TELEGRAM READ OVER TELEPHONE FROM MR.
WILKINSON'S OFFICE
DATED: December 4th LONDON
- Reference A Second Q
Proposs sonding following telegram to Yokohama subject to friends agree-
ment
QUoTE: Refer your telegram of September 3Oth your telegram October 7th
our Directors have given the most exhaustive consideration to proposal
Japanese Government but regretfully we have come to the conclusion that
compensation suggested does not appear to contain any real alleviation
of situation in that we quite understand no Government can bind itself
8
for a long period on such matters and therefore in our opinion and en-
6
tirely from commercial point of view we cannot see that we are guaranteed
4
an economic return on the extra capital expenditure required for six
months stockholding rule, particularly under system of annual quotas
9
which gives us no security for trade for longer than 12 months STOP
9
Quite apart from this question of capital expenditure there is also un-
3
certain phases of all kinds for payment for oil stocks held in the coun-
1
try and here again from a purely commercial point of view we feel we are
2
32
placed in a position that no bona fide trader should be asked to under-
take STOP
Still another condition which no commercial concern could accept is the
requirement stocks be replacec after Government requisition which in ef-
feot will give to Government an option on whcle of our production STOP
Therefore alt ough we are willing and anxious to supply needs of country
in the same manner as we have always done under all circumstances in the
past, we must ask you to regretfully inform the Government we cannot under-
take any extra capital expenditure beyond stock envisaged in the five point
memorandum which memorandum was drawn up after prolonged discussions between
parties for as we believe both Governments and the oil companies have fully
realized the desires and difficulties of the respective parties, and which
was reached as effective and satisfactory compromise meets conditions today
STOP
However, while we have come to the conclusion above after mature delibera-
tions and which conclusion we believe is the only one which a commercial con-
cern could consider in the circumstances, we have one suggestion to make to
the Government, which may enable them to confirm the 5 point memorandum as
originally negotiated for and at the same time achieve aim which they have
clearly shown to have in mind, namely, safeguarding of petroleum supply,
position in time of emergency STOP
Government are aware we are part owners of the only satisfactory patent for
the liquefaction coal by the process of hydrogenation and we can arrange with
our partners in this patent with license for its use to be granted to the
Government or suoh commercial or other bodies as they may appoint to enable
them to erect such plants to produce petroleum products from native supplies
of coal STOP

=== Page 427 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
Torms and conditions such license would include expert advice for the
@rection of plants and preliminary running STOP
for your private guidance only new york send suggestion to us that erec-
tion of hydrogenATIoN plant almost certainly will have to be undertaken
by Japanese commercial interests and for this purpose they w ould favor
Mitsui
STOP
We on the face of this can see no objection to such an arrangement and
therefore we think you should carefully consider in conjunction with friends
and our Embassy what form hydrogenation offer should be best made to the
Government STOP
Possible best way to make an ofrer directly as above and at the same time
suggest that the actual license should be given to Mitsui SToP
ALso might be considered advisable to explain whole situation including
hydrogenation offer to Mitsui before approaching the Government with the
idea that they may assist and use their influence to a fovorable settle-
ment STOP
As to this we give you full discretion to act in accordance with joint
opinion UNQUOTE
We now await friends reaction before releasing this telegram.
DW

=== Page 428 === (confidence 0.99)
December 6, 1935
T OF CABLE TO AGNEW. LONDON. THROUGH H.WILKINSON. NEW YORK
UNDERSTAND YOUR PROPOSED MESSAGE TO JAPANESE REPRESENTATIVE MEANT
TO BE AN INSTRUCTION TO ENDEAVOR TO OBTAIN CONSIDERATION OF HYDROGENATION
ASSISTANCE AS INDUCEMENT TO GET BACK TO FIVE POINT PLAN AND THAT YOU DO
NOT INTEND IT AS A FINAL ULTIMATUM TO JAPANESE GOVERNMENT AND THAT WE
WILL EXCHANGE VIEWS AS TO THE NEXT MOVE TO MAKE IN CASE CONSIDERATION OF
HYDROGENATION IS REFUSED STOP WITH THIS UNDERSTANDING IN MIND WE EXPECT
TO INFORM UNITED STATES STATE DEPARTMENT OF THIS INTENTION AND IT IS OUR
SUGGESTION THAT WE THEN SEND IN OUR CODE THE FOLLOWING MESSAGE TO OUR
MANAGER IN JAPAN BEGINS
PLEASE ARRANGE WITH FRIENDS FOR NEGOTIATIONS
WITH JAPANESE GOVERNMENT WHEREBY WE OFFER TO ASSIST THEM WITH PATENT RIGHT
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR THE INSTALLATION IN JAPAN OF HYDROGENATION
PLANT TO MANUFACTURE OIL FROM COAL STOP WE SUGGEST THAT THE UNCOMMERCIAL
AND UNREASONABLE REQUIREMENTS OF THE CONTROL LAW AS IT STANDS AND OUR
OBJECTIONS TO COMPLIANCE SHOULD BE FIRST CLEARLY STATED, AT THE SAME TIME
EXPRESSING OUR SYMPATHY WITH WHAT WE THINK ARE INTENDED TO BE THE REAL OB-
JECTIVES THEY WISH TO ATTAIN; THAT WE ARE OFFERING OUR SUGGESTION OF
HYDROGENATION ASSISTANCE WITH THE THOUGHT THAT WE WOULD THUS BE COOPERATI
WITH THEM TOWARDS ATTAINING SUCH OBJECTIVE AS BY USING OUR EXPERIENEE AND
PATENTS IN MAKING THEIR COAL SUPPLIES READILY AVAILABLE FOR PETROLEUM
MANUFACTURE THEY WOULD ALWAYS HAVE UNDER THEIR OWN CONTROL DURING AN
EMERGENCY A SUBSTANTIAL SOURCE OF CONSTANT SUPPLY STOP THE AMERICAN
AND BRITISH EMBASSIES ARE PREPARED TO GIVE YOU ASSISTANCE IN ARRANGING
INTRODUCTIONS TO NAVAL AND MILITARY OFFICIALS IF YOU REQUIRE THEM
STOP
IT IS OUR THOUGHT THAT IF THE SUGGESTION OF HYDROGENATION WERE ACCEPTED
IT WOULD PROBABLY BE NECESSARY FOR SOME JAPANESE COMMERCIAL HOUSE TO
BUILD AND OPERATE THE PLANT WITH SPECIAL GOVERNMENT SUBSIDY AND WE THIN
MITSUI WOULD BE THE BEST FOR THAT PURPOSE THEREFORE WE SUGGEST IF FRIE

=== Page 429 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
THAT THE ENTIRE SITUATION BE EXPLAINED TO MITSUI AND THAT YOU
POBSULT WITH THEM AS TO THE MOST EFFECTIVE MANNER OF PRESENTING THE
IDEA TO THE JAPANESE GOVERNMENT
THAT PERHAPS MITSUI COULD ARRANGE
INTRODUCTIONS WITHOUT THE AID OF THE EMBASSIES AND MIGHT IN VARIOUS
WAYS BE OF GREAT HELP IN THE MATTER STOP YOU MAY SAY TO THE GOVERNMENT,
IF THEY INDICATE WILLINGNESS TO DISCUSS THE SUGGESTIONS GIVEN,THAT THE
HEADS OF THE COMPANY HERE WILL BE PREPARED TO GO JAPAN TO CONCLUDE THE
MATTER OR WILL DISCUSS THE SUBJECT FURTHER WITH JAPANESE REPRESENTATIVES
ELSEWHERE IF THEY DESIRE STOP WITH THESE OBSERVATIONS WE LEAVE IT TO
YOUR DISCRETION TO GO AHEAD ALONG THESE LINES ENDS ALTHOUGH WE THINK
THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION AT THE MOMENT OUGHT TO MAKE THE JAPANESE
RECEPTIVE TO THE IDEA OFFERED THEM, WE BELIEVE WE SHOULD DECIDE
NOW UPON POLICY TO BE ADOPTED IMMEDIATELY IN CASE THE SUGGESTION
OFFERED IS REJECTED STOP THE QUOTAS FOR THE COMING YEAR WILL PROBABLY
BE SET WITHIN THE NEXT TWO WEEKS AND IF OUR QUOTAS ARE REDUCED BECAUSE
OF OUR STATED REFUSAL TO OBEY THE LAW, WE THINK IT WILL BE A PERMANENT
LOSS AND THAT WE WILL BE EMBARKED ON A PROGRAM WHEREBY OUR PARTICIPATION
IN JAPANESE DISTRIBUTION WILL BE SLOWLY REDUCED AS FAST AS OTHER SUPPLIERS
ARE READY TO HANDLE THE REDUCTION SO THAT WE WOULD SOON BE IN A POSITION
WHERE OUR ORDINARY STOCKS WILL BEAR SUCH RELATION TO OUR DISTRIBUTION
THAT WE WILL BE AUTOMATICALLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW AND FURTHER
WILL BE CARRYING ON AT SUBSTANTIAL LOSS IN THE FACE OF DISCRIMINATORY
7
TARIFFS AND PERMANENTLY DIMINISHED VOLUME OF BUSINESS. WE WOULD APPRE-
CIATE REPLY ON MONDAY IF POSSIBLE AS TIME IS IMPORTANT.

=== Page 430 === (confidence 0.95)
DeR
EE
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
26 BROADWAY
December 12, 1935.
REOLTVED
935
Yode Eelegromn to The
794.6363
De 13, 1935
Division of
PALASTERN AFFAIRS
achnovledge d
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
4011030
vee 14136
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
reocs
Department of State
Department of State,
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
894.6363/233
Referring to our telephone conversation
of yesterday afternoon, I enclose copy of exact message as
despatched to Yokohama on December lOth. After our dis-
cussions yesterday afternoon, we sent a further cable, read-
ing as follows:
"Tokyo will receive instructions limiting their
authority for the present to participation only
in any discussions desirable."
We now feel somewhat handicapped in using our company code
to Yokohama, which explains why the above message is delib-
erately not too specific.
We can now await the next development in
Tokyo. In the meantime, as explained to you yesterday,
we are endeavoring to come to a decision with our London
friends as to what our next move shall be in case our
Hydrogenation suggestion is declined.
I will keep you posted as to the latest
possible developments and meanwhile can only express our
appreciation of your kind and helpful interest in all our
troubles in connection with this matter. If you have any
further suggestions upon the immediate question other than
those you gave me yesterday over the telephone, I shall be
very glad to have them.
Sincerely yours,
P.N. Packs
PWP:H
Enclosure -
11
F7G

=== Page 431 === (confidence 0.85)
OUT OING CARLERAM
NBW YORK
YOKOHAMA
PAGE 1
DB0 10/35
DATE
Wa and Friendo have nov enohuny od viowe una w lt aviicd London is today de.
patohing a cablo with whiol we lave caprcs.? coreu.acncc. Tee i tur have ex-
prossed sonourrence with thie neeca e sior It ta ld be uxccrstocd tl.ut our
following propostl lu to le in oxol or  Goucir nt's ad vencc to the
five point Memorandum Tor Ple  ti otl tiors with
Japanese Government vhety we  to riet or vit vatot r te and toch
nical aasistance for the iuctall io i Jn co prro ct tior plant to mana
facture o1l from coal cp 7e   ceiI unresouablr re
quirements of the Control Law  it staner cne o  o ine to compliance
should be firet olealy: ted t t w resdr eymathy vith
what we think are tatende toe  1 c i  to uttain tha
we are offoring cur cutien o ye c onnrlorcristence vith the trouutht
that we would thuebe coorear ative

=== Page 432 === (confidence 0.87)
0
OINOABLFGPAM
M NEW YORK
YOKOHAMA
P4GE 2
DATE DEC 10/35
by using our experience and patente in naki  thcir coal suprlicm readily avail
able for Petroleum manufactue t veld laye huve o. their cm control
during an omergenoy a mibe antiel scurce of corlurt supply uTor The Anericer
and british Embassies e eve  ir intr
uctione to   milita: oI ifsli em slop It i ou
thought that if the ocio ofao ett  ptee it o c pro ehly
be necessary for some Japanese com reial hoe to  ild an crerate t e plant
with spe clal Govemment hsiink i1l
Wo u for that
purpose Thereforeve t if Fi e t tire cicualcn be ex
plained to Mitsui und shat yo onzult it t en us to she mos effective manner
of presenting the ldea to the Japanee Govemment Tt  -rs liueui could
arrange introducticns without the cie os the Erbes ies tne it in verioue waye
be of reat help in the mut ter srop You .  to the G nent if they indi
cate willingness to disouss the sutestione  iven that the heads of the company

=== Page 433 === (confidence 0.79)
NEW YORK
YOKOHAMA
IAGE3
DATE
DEC 10/35
bere will 
o-111 c1scuse
we sbe
1f tor cosice
JOOP WIl
EA.
and foo
7

=== Page 434 === (confidence 0.80)
Dedemter 34, 1956.
Bear Mr. Paster!
for pumpeses of reeerd it is desired to canfim the
anl cokmevleégent meée to you es the receiyt by the
894.6363/233
Dupartment of your letters of December 9 and December 18.
soss, ane of the emelesures therewith, wmich relate to
é sítien in Japen.
sineesely yours,
Stamley K. Beeabeek,
Dévisiem of Far Basterm Affairs.
P.P
11
DEC 14 1955
A true capy of
20.m.N.
the e
mal.

=== Page 435 === (confidence 0.97)
d7
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
Docember 20, 1935.
Go..... m.A
Reference Tokyo's telegram No. 246 of
December 19, 3 p.m., in regard to the oil
situation in Japan, --
In view of the indeterminate attitude
displayed by the New York representatives
of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company in re-
gard to the question of possible withdrawal
of the company from Japan, Mr. Neville's
statement (see middle of paragraph one of
the Embassy's telegram under reference)
that the oil companies "could not comply
with the law . . . . and would be unable
to do business in Japan under its terms"
would seem unjustifiably categorical. How-
ever, Mr. Neville probably based his com-
ments on the statements contained in the
proposed letters (presumably later sent)
addressed by the oil companies to the Vice
Minister for Commerce and Industry which
contained the definite statement that "they
(the companies) cannot undertake any extra
capital expenditure beyond that envisaged
in the five-point memorandum" (see paragraph
one of Tokyo's telegram 240 of December 13,
6 p.m.). 228
In view of the detailed nature of the
Department's instructions to Tokyo in regard
to

=== Page 436 === (confidence 0.94)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
- 2 -
to recent developments in the situation
under reference, there would seem to be
room for improvement in coordinating the
offorts of the British and American
Embassies vis-à-vis the Japanese authorities.
However, under existing conditions
it would appear advisable to permit
Ambassador Grew to proceed in accordance
with the plan indicated in the concluding
sentence of his telegram No. 246 of
December 19, 3 p.m., in which event no
action is required of the Department.
/207
ak
rocw
ROM:EJL

=== Page 437 === (confidence 0.95)
<18
(0)
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
AU
Tokyo
This-elegram must be
FROM
carefully paraphrased
Dated December 19, 1935
before being communicated
to anyone.)(B)
Rec'd 9:40 a.m.
Division of
Secretary of State
FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DEC191935
Vashington
894.6363/234
Department of State
Department's 199 December 13, 7 p.n. 011.
Cne. In the course of a conversation on other
matters yesterday the hief of the Commercial Bureau
of the For ign O fice on his own initiative. asked
Neville whether the letter of the oil companies meant
that the companies intended to defy the Japanese
Government. Neville replied that so far as he
knew it meant that they could not comply with the law
as commercial proposition and would be unable to do
business in Japan under its terms. Kurusu said that
this decision had seriously disturbed the Department
of Commerce and Industry and that something wo uld have
to be done about it because if the oil companies
were to withdraw other arrangements would have to be
FTLED
made to obtain necessary oil supplies in Japan. He
(
safd that it was his intention to speak to the local
Standard and Shell managers before anything further
developed.
Two.
F
G

=== Page 438 === (confidence 0.99)
49
AU -2- #246, December 10, 3 p.m. from Tokyo
Two. The British Ambassador on December 17,
brought up the oil question with the Minister for
Foreign Affairs in the course of a conversation
upon other matters along the lines indicated in
mbassy's 240 and added that it was known that the
military were responsible for the present law but
that it was unreasonable to expect the companies to
bear the expense of storing oil uneconomically for
military requirements.
The Ambassador said that
he was not (repeat not) speaking under instructions.
The Minister for Foreign Affairs replied that the
question would probably be aired in the Diet because
of the postponement of the enforcement of the law
until July lst and that he hoped that some solution
might be found either before or when explanations
were given.
Three. In view of the fact that the British
Ambassador has raised the oil question in the course
of a conversation only incidentally, and also in
view of the remarks of the Chief of Commer ial Bureau
which indicates that the Government is giving the
matter serious attention, I do not think that any-
thing is to be gained by my seeking an interview with
the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the express pur-
pose of discussing the question at this juncture.
Unless

=== Page 439 === (confidence 0.99)
AU -3- #246, December 10, 3 p.m. from Tokyo
Unless otherwise instructed I shall therefore take
o ccasion to bring up the matter when I next see the
Minister or the Vice 'inister on some other subject.
GREV
HPD

=== Page 440 === (confidence 0.97)
E
51
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
olosely paraphrased be-
FROM
fore being communicated
Dated December 26, 1935
to anyone. (B)
Secretary of State,
Mashington.
A
C
894.636
251, December 26, 2 p. m.
Embassy's 246, Decemter 19, 3 p. m. o11.
Cne. The local representatives of the Standard
894.6363/23
and Shell interests on December 23 received from the
Ministry of Commerce and Industry a verbal reply to
their letters o1 December 14 (Emi assy's 240 December
13, 6 p. m.). The rep1y stated that the stock keeping
obligation cannot be changed; that the five-point
35
memorandum was the result of private conversations
5
and is not binding; that penalties and administrative
measures, such as reduction of quotas, will result from
noncompliance with the rigid provisions of the law;
FILED
and that the matter of liquefaction of coal has no
connection with the enforcement of the stock keeping
obligation. The above information in greater detail
has been telegraphed to the hoad offices of the oil
interests.
Two, The local representatives of the oil
interests will discuss the above renly with Kurusu
tomorrow.

=== Page 441 === (confidence 0.98)
52.
FS
2-No. 251, December 26, 2 p. m. from Tokyo
tomorrow. I shall telegraph any important develop-
nents which may emerge from the discussion.
HPD
GREW

=== Page 442 === (confidence 0.97)
53
FS
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
This telegram must be
Tokyo
olosely paraphrased be-
fore being oommunicated
Dated December 28, 1935
to anyene. (B)
FROM
Secretary of State,
C
iashington.
A
253, December 28, noo..
235VewD
894.4363
Embassy's 251, December 26, 2 p. n., second
894.6363/236
paragraph.
One. In his talk yesterday with the local
representatives of the oil co.panies Kurusu expressed
his desire to overcome the iipasse created by the un-
compromising attitudes of both sides in regard to the
oil storage obligation and stated that he would ex-
plore the possibility of securing governmental guar-
anteos of quotas and prices sufficient to warrant the
companies in storing six months stocks of oil. Owing
to the approaching holidays, however, he could do
FILED
nothing until after January 7. He also suggested as
a practical solution the utilization by the foreign
companies of Jananese capital for internal distribu-
tion and stock holding.
Two. Local Standard representative has telegraphed
details of the conversation to New York. I think it
would be helpful to tho Department to ask to see a copy
of it.
HPD
GREW
F/G

=== Page 443 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF PAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 8, 1936.
Tokyo's despatoh No. 1590, Decomber 12,
19S5, AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN,
comtains, in my opinion, no information
which would serve as basis for protest by
the American Government on the ground of
diserimination if the proposed tariff on
petroloum is enacted.
The"discrimination" in the proposed
potroleum tariff which is complained of
 the foreign oil company representatives,
as reported in the despatch, appears to
consist (if the allegations are correct)
in an advantage accruging to refiners
of petroleum products in Japan as against
importers of refined petroleum products.
It has net been shown that the law of
Japan discriminates against refining
operations in Japan by the foreign
companies (on the contrary the Japanese
authorities would probably favor such
refining operations by the foreign
companies). The fact that the foreign
companies import refined petroleum
products instead of refining petroleum
products in Japan appears to be the
result of their preference rather than
the result of any disability under
Japanese law which does not equally
apply to Japanese refiners.
cC
OC/DLY

=== Page 444 === (confidence 0.98)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 4, 1936.
RONT
Tokyo's despatch No. 1590, Decem-
bor 12, 1935, AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN
JAPAN, reports the developments to that
date in discussions between the oil
companies and Japanese officials with
regard to the new Japanese Petroleum
Law.
Representatives of the oil companies
have been given details of proposed
alterations in the Japanese petroleum
tariff which will actually favor
refiners of oil products over importers
of refined oil products. This advantage
will operate by reason of the fact that
the proposed tariff accepts, for customs
purposes, a theoretical gasoline content
of crude oil which is in fact exceeded
in modern refining methods. That is,
the Japanese refiner who imports a
shipment of crude oil which for customs
purposes is calculated to have a gasoline
content of 1000 tons will in fact be
able to refine from his importation more
than 1000 tons of gasoline. (The
Embassy's information in this technical
matter is presumed to derive from the
oil companies.) The proposed duty on
most lubricating oils 1s about 50% higher
than at present, but on kerosene there
is no increase.
on

=== Page 445 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
On November 30 the two foreign oil
companies presented a memorandum on the
subjeet of the proposed tariff alterations,
but in reply they were informed of the
improbability of any amendments.
The Embassy states that the proposed
tariff increases make the already gloomy
future of the foreign oil companies in
Japan still more gloomy.
In connection with the stock keeping
obligation of the new law, on December 3
the Standard and Rising Sun representatives
were read a statement by the Chief of the
Mining Bureau that the Vice Minister for
Commeree and Industry could no longer
continue the unofficial discussions and
must proceed to give effect to the Govern-
ment's policy as embodied in the law. It
is probable that this statement was for
the purpose of definitely disclaiming
the fivo-point memorandum as an obligation.
On December 10 and December 11 the
Rising Sun and Standard representatives,
respectively, received telegrams from
their head offices authorizing negotiations
with the Japanese Government with a view
to assisting the Japanese Government
to obtain an independent supply of oil
by use of their patent rights for the
hydrogenation of coal. The companies
/235
had in mind making this offer to the
Japanese Government in return for the
terms outlined in the five-point memorandum.
(A subsequent telegram [Tokyo's No. 251,
December 26, 2 p.m., paragraph one.],
however, reports that the Japanese
Ministry

=== Page 446 === (confidence 0.97)
- 3 -
mistry of Commerce and Industry has
fimitely stated that the matter of
liguefastion of coal has no connection
with the enforcement of the stook
keeping obligation.) The contention
of the oil companies would appear to
be that possession by the Japanese Govern-
ment of the process of hydrogenation of
coal would give the Japanese Government
a source of oil (by liquefaction of coal)
which could be used by the Japanese
Government in an emergency and would
consequently make unnecessary the pro-
visions of the Japanese Petroleum Law
requiring storage of several months
supply.
894.6363/237
CO/DLY

=== Page 447 === (confidence 0.93)
LEGAL ADVISER
EMBASSY OF THE
Tokyo, December 12, 1935
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
No. 1590.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
yol
894.6363
C
335  00 145
Veee
894.6363/237
copy suut 5
Lndm Jan7
(5)
1936
Rau
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
UMT
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's de-
226
spatch No. 1554, dated November 19, 1935, and to pre-
vious correspondence on the subject of the difficulties
being experienced in Japan by the American oil interests
under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report the following
developments in the situation.
Proposed Increase in the Tariff on Petroleum.
In the latter part of November the newspapers pub-
lished reports to the effect that the Japanese Government
had
FA

=== Page 448 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
had decided to increase the tariff rates on crude and
refined petroleum, beginning with the next fiscal year
(April 1, 1936) in order to raise enough revenue to.
cover the compensation which the Government will pay to
importers and refiners for stock-keeping. It was also
reported that a larger proportionate increase would be
imposed on imported gasoline than on crude oil. on
November 21 the representatives of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company and the Rising Sun retroleum compeny called
on the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry to as-
certain the truth of this report, and were told that the
Government did intend to raise the tariff rates on pe-
troleum, but that the increase was only for general re-
venue purposes and that there was no intention to dis-
criminate between importers and refiners. The repre-
sentatives of the oil companies vere invited to criti-
cize the draft of the proposed tariff changes, which
would be given them in confidence.
Later the representatives of the oil companies were
given the details of the proposed alterations in the
petroleum tariff rates by the Chief of the Fuel Section
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. Although the
oil companies were assured by the Vice Minister for Commerce
and Industry that there would be no discrimination in the
increased rates as between importers and refiners, the
foreign oil companies claim that there is in fact a very
substantial discrimination. The subject is highly techni-
cal, but briefly the situation is as follows: The avowed
purpose of the proposed changes is to apply an increase
of

=== Page 449 === (confidence 0.98)
-3 -
of 1.7 sen per gallon on gasoline, and to apply such in-
crease on crude oil as will correspond to 1.7 sen per gal-
lon of the gasoline content of the oil. This appears to
be reasonable and not discriminatory, but the discrimination
lies in the method of calculating the gasoline content of
the crude oil. The authorities propose to take as the gaso-
line content, for the purpose or calculating duty, one-
half of the volatile oils distilled off at 275 degrees
Centigrade. In actual practice, however, more than one-
half of the volatile oils distilled off at this tempera-
ture, when California crude oil is used, consists of gaso-
line, and the gasoline production is further increased
by the cracking method, which is used in all the larger
refineries in Japan. Whereas the duty on the gasoline
content of crude oil, therefore, is to be calculated ac-
cording to the obsolete fractional distillation method,
the gasoline will actually be produced by the cracking
method and a much larger amount produced(estimated in some
cases as nearly double) than was taken into calculation by
the customs. The increased cost to the refiners will
therefore be only about .8 or .9 sen per gallon, while
the importers will have to pay the full duty of 1.7 sen
per gallon. If an increase of 1 sen per gallon, calcu-
lated on the refiners' costs, is permitted in the price
of gasoline to compensate for the inoreased duty, the
American and British oil companies will be compelled to
bear an extra burden of .7 sen per gallon, or approximately
Yen 1,000,000 per annum for both companies.
The

=== Page 450 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
The tariff rate on lubricating oils and greases
is also to be raised, but there is to be no increase
in the duty on the topped crudes from which the Japa-
nese refiners produce their lubricating oils. The oil
companies estimate that 83 per cent of the lubricating
oils which they import will have to pay a 50 per cent
higher rate of duty, totaling about Yen 232,000 per annum
for the two compenies. There is to be no increase in
the tariff rate on kerosene or on the kerosene content
of the crude oil, probably in order to assist the Japa-
nese refiners in their export trade in kerosene.
On November 30, 1935, the two foreign oil companies
presented a memorandum to the Chief of the Fuel Section
of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, pointing out
wherein the proposed alterations in the tariff would im-
pose heavier burdens on the importers than upon the domes-
tic refiners. The oil companies' representatives were in-
formed, however, that the proposed alterations in the
tariff had already gone to the Tariff Investigation Com-
mission for examination, and that it was unlikely that
any amendments would be made.
In this connection there is enclosed a memorandum
of a conversation between Mr. D.D. MacGregor, of the
Mitsubishi Oil Company, which is affiliated with the
Associated Oil Company of California, and Mr. Dickover,
of this Embassy, in which Mr. MacGregor stated that the
proposed tariff increases were part of a plan to drive
the foreign oil companies out of the distributing and
retail business in Japan. Whether or not this is true,
the

=== Page 451 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
the fact remains that the proposed tariff increases make
the already gloomy future of the foreign oil companies in
Japan still more gloomy.
Stock-keeping Obligation.
1.1
As was reported in the Embassy's despatch l.o. 1554, the
Japanese cuthorities on November 6 and November 15 requested
the foreign oil companies to inuic:te at the earliest pos-
sible moment their intentions in regard to the question of
carrying six months' stocks of oil in storage in Japan. On
December 3, 1935, the representatives of the Standard-Vacuum
Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum Company were called
to the Mining Bureau of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry,
where the Chief of the Bureau expressed his disappointment
that no reply had as yet been received from the two companies
in regard to the stock-keeping question, and, reading from a
paper in his hand, informed the representatives that the
Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry regretted that he
could no longer continue the unofficial discussions which
had been inaugurated when the Directors of the companies
were in Japan last winter and which he had continued with
good-will, and that henceforth the Mining Bureau, although
still desirous of knowing as soon as possible the decision
of the companies in regard to stock-keeping, must proceed to
give effect to the Government's policy as embodied in the
law.
The Chief of the Bureau did not proceed to any explan-
ation of his remarks, and the foreign oil interests have
since been speculating as to the exact meaning of the re-
marks. It is believed that the Chief of the Bureau may
have intended his remarks as a warning to the oil companies
that

=== Page 452 === (confidence 0.99)
- 6 -
that they could no longer consider themselves as entitled
to special consideration because of the discussions which
had been in progress, and that they would in the future be
liable to the penalties provided for non-compliance with
the law, such as reduction of quotas and fines.
.The remarks
may also have been intended as a means of putting the Japa-
nese officials in a position where they would no longer
be bound, even loosely, by the five-point memorandum of
last April. Moreover, ne speper reports have uppeared in
Japan to the effect that Directors of the two companies
were again coming to Japan to resume their discussions with
the Jap nese authorities over the petroleum question. The
remarks of the Chief of the ining Bureau may have been
intended as a warning that such visits would not be velcome
and that the discussions would not be resumed.
On Decenber 10 the Rising Sun Petroleum Company
received a telegram from the head office in London, instruct-
ing the local representative "regretfully to inform the
Japanese that we cannot undertake any extra capital expen-
diture beyond that envisaged in the Five Point emorandum"
and proceeding to outline a plan for granting to the Japa-
nese Government, or to any private concern designated
by the Japanese Governnent, a license to use the patent
rights held by the Royal Dutch-Shell interests and others
for the liquefaction of coal by the hydrogenation process,
in return for a confirmation by the Japanese Government
of the Five Point Memorandum as originally negotiated. On
December 1l the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company received a
telegram from its head office in New York, concurring with
the telegram received by the Rising Sun Petroleum Company
and

=== Page 453 === (confidence 0.99)
- 7 -
and authorizing the local representatives of the Company
to negotiate with the Japanese Government with a view
to assisting it to obtain an independent supply of oil
by the use of the patent rights and technical assistance
of the Company in the hyarocenation of coa. Copies of the
2/3/
two telegrams received by the local orfices of the companies
are enclosed.
This plan, and the method of proceeding in its
execution, are now under discussion by the representatives
of the two oil companies and of the American and ritish
Embassies and the Netherlands Legation. It seems to be
the general opinion of those interested in the proposal
that the first approach should be to the Japanese officials
who have been handling the oil uestion, rather than to
private Japanese interests who in turn would approach
the Government. The question also arises of whether the
approach to the authorities should or should not be pre-
ceded by informal diplomatic representations designed to
prepare the ground for the proposal. Before any steps
are taken by this Ebassy, however, the Department will
be informed and instructions will be requested.
Some of the diplomatic officers interested in the oil
situation in Japan are not inclined to be optimistic in
regard to the new proposal. In their opinion, the Japa-
nese Government, if its purpose is the obtaining of a
supply of oil for emergency use without cost to itself,
could hardly be expected to be willing to spend large
sums to obtain patent rights and to build factories in
order to obtain the supply of oil from other sources.
Or if, as is sometimes claimed, the purpose of the recent
legislation

=== Page 454 === (confidence 0.97)
- 8 -
legislation is to drive the foreign oil companies out
of the domestic Japanese trade in order that Japanese
companies may have the business, any proposal which would
permit the foreign oil companies to remain in the field
would not be acceptable.
Respectfully yours,
Edum  harille
Edwin L. Neville
Chargé d'Affaires ad interim
Enclosures:
Memorandum of Conversation between Mr.
LacGregor and r. Dickover.
Copy of telegram from Lonaon to ..ising Sun
Petroleum Company.
Copy of telegram from vew York to Standard-
Vacuum Oil Compeny.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 455 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 1 to despatoh
No. 1590 of December 12, '35
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
MEMORANDUM
December 3, 1935.
Conversation: Mr. D.D. MaoGregor, of the Mitsubishi Oil
Company, Ltd. (Affiliated with the Associated
Oil Company).
Mr. Dickover.
I saw Mr. MacGregor last evening and discussed the
oil situation in Jupan, Manchuria and North China ith him
for some time. Mr. MacGregor, who is in Japan to watch the
Associated interests in the Mitsubishi Oil Company, is in
close touch with the Japanese engaged in the oil business
here and often has interesting and sometimes accurate and
valuable information.
In discussing the proposed t riff increase on crude
and refined oils, Mr. MacGregor s id that it undoubtedly
would work greater hardship on the imorters of refined oils
than on the Japanese refiners, due to the method of cal-
culating the available gasoline content of the crude on the
old fractional distillation method instead of the more
modern cracking method. He said that it was just a part
of the general attempt to drive the foreign oil companies
out of the distributing business in Japan. The foreign oil
companies had been losing money because of the low price
of gasoline in Japan for some years past; just recently,
due to the raise in the price allowed by the Department of
Commerce and Industry, the foreign oil companies were again
making a little profit. This would not suit the books of
the Japanese, so they had proposed a discriminatory tariff
increase, which would again force the foreign oil companies
into the red. In this way they hoped to induce the foreign
011

=== Page 456 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
oil companies to leave Japan. hat the Japanese really
desire, and what they have been working toward for some time,
said r. MacGre or, was the eliination of the foreign oil
companies from the distributing and retailing trade in
Japan. They want the foreign oil companies to do simoly
a wholesale trade, selling to the Japanese c.i.f. Japanese
ports, and leaving the entire distributing and selling trade
to the Japanese. I said that I should not think that the
Japanese would want the trade, with all the restrictions and
burdens put upon the trade recently. Mr. acGregor said that
as soon as the foreign compenies are driven out, the bur-
dens and restrictions vill disa pear, or means will be found
to coipensate for them.
E。。D.

=== Page 457 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 2 to despatoh No.
1590 of December 13, 1935 from
the Embassy at Tokyo.
Copy of telegram dated December 9, 1935, from
London, received by the Rising Sun Petroleum
Jompany, Yokohama.
Re your telegram 30th September re your telegram 7th
November:
Our Directors have given most exhaustive consideration
to proposals of Japanese Government but we have regretfully
come to the conclusion that compensation suggestion does
not appear to contain any real alleviation of the situa-
tion in that we quite understand no Government can
bind itself for a long period on such a matter and there-
fore, in our opinion and entirely from commercial point
of view, we cannot see we are guaranteed an economic re-
turn on the extra capital expenditure required by the
six months' stock-holding rule, particularly under a
system of annual quotas which gives us no security for
trade for longer than twelve months.
Quite apart from this question of capital expenditure
there is also uncertain basis at all times for pa ment
for oil stocks held in the country, and here again from
a purely commercial point of view we feel that we are
placed in a position that no bona fide trader should
be asked to undertake.
Still another condition which no conmercial concern could
accept is the requirement for stocks to be replaced after
Government requisition, which in effect would give to the
Government an option on the whole of our production.
Therefore, although we are willing and anxious to supply the
needs of the country in the same manner as we have always
done under all circumstances in the past, we must ask
you regretfully to inform the Government we cannot under-
take any extra capital expenaiture beyond that envisaged
in the Five Point Memorandum, which Memorandum was drawn
up after prolonged discussions between parties and after,
as we believe, both Government and Oil Companies had fully
realized the desire and difficulties of the respective
parties and which was reached as an effective and satis-
factory compromise to meet conditions of today.
However, while we have come to the above conclusion after
mature deliberation, which conclusion we believe is the
only one which a commercial concern could consider under
the ciroumstances, we have one suggestion to make to
the Government which may enable them to confirm the Five
Point Memorandum as originally negotiated and at the same
time to achieve the aim which they have clearly shown they
have in mind, namely the safeguarding of the petroleum
supply position in time of emergenoy. The Government are
aware that we are part owners of the only satisfactory
patent

=== Page 458 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
patent for the liquefaction of coal by the hydrogenation
process and we can arrange with our partners in this
patent that license for its use shall be granted to the
Japanese Government or such conmercial or other body
as they might appoint to enable them to erect such plant
to produce petroleum products from native sup,ly of coal.
The terms and conditions of such license would include
expert advice for the erection of the plant and preliminary
running.
For your private guidance only, New York Friends have sug-
gested to us that erection of Hydrogenation lant almost
certainly would have to be undertaken by Japunese commercial
interest and for this purpose they would favour Mitsuis.
On the face of it we can see no objection to such an arrange-
ment and therefore we think you should carefully consider
with Friends, Dutch Embassy and British Embassy what form
of hydrogenation offer should be best made to the Govern-
ment. Possibly best way would be to make offer direct
as above and at the sane time suggest that the actual
license should be given to Mitsuis. Also it may be con-
sidered advisable to explain whole situation, including
hydrogenation offer, to Mitsui before approaching the
Government, with the idea that they may assist and use
their influence towards favourable settlement. As to this
we give you full discretion to act in accordance with
general opinion.

=== Page 459 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. 3 to despatch
No. 1590 of December 13, 1935.
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
Copy of telegram from New York, received by
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company, Yokohama,
on Dece: ber 11. 1935.
We and Friends have now exchanged views and we are advised
that London is today despatcning a cable with which we have
expressed concurrence. They in turn have expressed con-
currence with this message. It should be understood that
our following proposal is to be in exchange for the Govern-
ment's adherence to the Tive -oint emorandum.
Please arrange with Friends for negotiations vith Japenese
Government whereby we offer to assist them with p tent rights
and technical assistance for the installation in Japan of
hydrogenation plant to manufacture oil from coal. e suggest
that the uncommercial and unreasonable requirements of the
Control Law as it stends and our objections to compliance
should first be clearly stated, at the same time ex ressing
our sympathy with what we think are intended to be the real
objectives they wish to attain, that we are offering our
suggestion of hydrogenation assistance with the thought
that we would thus be co-operating with them towards at-
taining such obj ctives, as by using our experience and
patents in making their coal supply readily available for
petroleum manufacture they would always have under their
own control during emergency a substantial source of con-
stant supply.
The American and British Embassies are prepared to give you
assistance in arranging introductions to Naval and Military
officials if you require them.
It is our thought that if the hydrogenation suggestions were
accepted it would probably be necessary for some Japanese
commercial house to build and operate the plant(s) with special
Government subsidy and we think Mitsui would be the best for
that purpose: therefore we suggest, if Friends agree, that
the entire situation be explained to vistui and that you
consult them as to the most effective manner of presenting
the idea to the Japanese Government; that perhaps Mitsui
could arrange for introductions without the aid of the
Embassies and might in various ways be of great help in the
matter.
You may say to the Government, if they indicate willingness to
discuss the suggestion given, that the heads of the company
here will be prepared to go to Japan to conclude the matter
or will discuss the subject further with Japanese representa-
tives elsewhere if they desire.
With these observations we leave it to your discretion to go
ahead along these lines.
AB

=== Page 460 === (confidence 0.95)
-2-
As additional suggestion since referring to London and for
your general consideration , we feel it advantageous to put
time limit on Governnent's ecceptance. e would like reply
about the end of the month but leave this entirely to your
judgment.

=== Page 461 === (confidence 0.94)
January 9 1936
-1078
To the Amerieen Ambesseder,
Leméen.
The Searetary ef State refers to previous serrespend-
894.6363/237
mee in regard to the eil situation in Japan and, in com-
neetiem therewith, eneleses, for the infermatiom of the
Ambassader, a sopy of despatoh No. 1590 of December 12,
1955, with 1ts enelosures, from the Amerieam Embassy at
Tokyo.
Emelesure:
From Rmbassy Tokyo
No. 1590,
Doeember 12, 1935,
with enelosures.
894.6363/237
M
1.m.
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
JAD
1/7/36
CR
91935

=== Page 462 === (confidence 0.96)
894.6363
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
SEE793.94/7591
#1594
894.6363/
FOR
FROM
Japan
(.Nev1lle.....) DATED
Dec 13,1935
TO
NAME
1-1127
Indications that both the Japanese and Chinese armies are
2
storing reserves of gasoline in North China, presumably in
REGARDING:
35
preparation for military activities in that area.
8
FRG.
238

=== Page 463 === (confidence 0.96)
72
54
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1-1886
FROM
FS
This telegram must be
To yo
closely paraphrased be-
fore bein communicated
Dated January 7, 1936
to anyone. (B)
ate
Rec'd 6:30 a. m.
Secretary of State,
C
Tashington.
234
894.6363/239
Embassy's 246, December 19, 3 p. m.
I discussed the situation of the oil companies today
with the Vice Minister for Foreir Affairs on the basis
228
of paragraph four of Embassy's 240 December 13, 6 p..
The Vice Minister made no comment except to say that the
government had no intention to deprive the foreigr: com-
panies of a reasonable economic return and that he
would see what if anything could be done.
The Dutch Minister recently made similar representa-
tions.
MCL:CSB
GREW
F/FG

=== Page 464 === (confidence 0.96)
2
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
FFARTMENT OF STATL2G BROADWAY
NEWYORK
December 24, 1935.
1935C 2F AM 9 37
DER
DIVISION OF
EE
COMMUNIT ATIONS
JAPAN
AND
anid.
reay
894.6362
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief, Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Department of State,
Desember 27 1935
894.6363/240
Washington, D.C.
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
Just to keep you up to date, I
enclose copy of cable received from Yokohama today
(December 4th). We shall probably not come to
any decision on this until early next week, but you
may count on me to keep you fully advised.
May I take this opportunity to
express to you my best wishes for a Merry Christmas
and Happy New Year.
Sincerely yours
PNarks
PWP:H
P. W. Parker
F/FG

=== Page 465 === (confidence 0.82)
0
COHALLA
YORK
PAG 1
DEC 24/35
N
RFCD
Tosterday friends we were cullea to  a o?
 clivercd to
us memo unu   
ror o loler
to Vice iulic f Con
not unde
1:1-7
us
stockin?
privale
their i
(118)
country and
()1
1
w
in the ev'rt (n,
ion fo. ( i c,

=== Page 466 === (confidence 0.94)
0
INCOMING CAOL.EGRAM
PAG 2
CEPIERY
024/35
NO.
REC'D
DISTR'D
mforoement (of) existing stoctholding obliationr srop (To) Amplify-ing
int Four in discussion-s (with) head-s of Mine-ing Bur au emphatic-ally stat-
 that while law-s requiring 6 months εtock is in effect Government caimot
aeeept hydrogenation proposal-s (in) lieu of stockholding and there is no reason
to believe law will be altered stop Same official also tated 1936 quotc will be
ranted on quarterly basis at least on this occasion and that quota-s for for-
ism company-s for first quarter will be 1/4 of. their 1935 qunta-s and all nat-
ural inorease for that quarter vill be allocatcd to native oil companies ae they
bave held 6 months stock since Cctober lst STop Throuch U.S. Embassy Kurueu hes
indicated private-ly willingneus to dieouss situctio: so ve shall telegraph ymu
furthor after discussion-s (with:) Lim prolably on Dec. ?7th STup Kuusu hint-s
as possible solution foreien company-s (to) sell-in: to Juranese intertsts pre-
summbly on oif basis that volume (of) their ude for which they feel unable (to)

=== Page 467 === (confidence 0.82)
8
20
PAGE 3
8 84/35
all § months stoak obligation-s he (they) also indicute-s little prospect
of) hydrogenation proposal will solve the problen as Japancse researoh has

=== Page 468 === (confidence 0.92)
Desember 89, 1055.
N. Pester!
trme reesiyt is neknewledged with thenks of your
ptow of meeamber B4, 19ss, and of the eeyy attached
therete of a eable reccived by you em Deeember s& frem
tosehemm in regurd to recent develepments in the eil
sétmasiem in Japan. The information thus supplied sup-
plememts that received by the Department from the
894.6363/240
Amerieam Rabassy at Tokye.
Nete is made of your statement that you will eem-
timme to keep the Department fully advised in regard to
this subjeet.
I appreciate and cerdially reeiprecate the expres-
siem of heliday greetings centained in your letter
méer asknewledgsen't.
Sineerely yours,
Staxley K. Hornbeek,
DEC 27, 1935PM
Chier,
Divisiom of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
sen
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company,
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
mm.N
ceus
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 469 === (confidence 0.91)
CH
NC
STANDARD-VACUUM OILCOMPANY
FFARTMENT GHOADWAY
DC
NEw YoRK December 27, 1935.
1936 AN 4 AM 11 26
yo ack'd
CIV SION OF
COMYUNTITIONS
公
AND
ここ
4
894.6363
January B 1930
Dr. Stanley K. Hornbeck,
Chief Division of Far Eastern Affairs,
Washington, D. C.
894.6363/24
Dear Dr. Hornbeck:
You will recall that in a cable from
our Yokohama office, dated December 4th (which accompanied
our letter to you of that date) our representative stated
that Kurusu, Commercial Representative of the Japanese
Foreign Office, had, for the American Embassy, indicated
privately a willingness to discuss again the Control Law
problem with our people.
This discussion has taken
place and is summarized in a cable dated December 27th
just received from Yokohama, copy of which we attach for
your guidance.
Should you require any supplementary
information, please feel free to call upon us.
Sincerely youns
P-N. tarke
PWP:H
Enclosure -

=== Page 470 === (confidence 0.82)
0
OKO:LUEA
NEW YORK
rl II - FAE I
BAT LBC 27/
(Reforrinr o) or
1.)
vertuent luth luft
rop e coul s 
ment and
trata du o
alion si
brea e
clea
ation s in r
futere t a alo
1)
ram D. 240 ()

=== Page 471 === (confidence 0.93)
0
COAARC
YOKOHAMA
NEW
YORK
PART II PA(E 2
DATE
DEC
27/35
that any commeroial conoern forein or Japanese mas justified in requesting
adoquate uarantee-s in re,ard to A period of tralin B anount of trade C Re-
munerative price-s and the profit whio'  e indioated should inolude suitable re-
turn on investment s involve. in-d (in) stockholdin oli ation-s an? in this
conneotion he acain stressed his conviotion tlat inoronsln stockhol ing oblig
ation-s is entirely impraotioable and that means mist an? oan be found by lepart.
mental re ulation-s to establish a maxi.un Sror He su gested that me ou ht to be
willing to consider solution on suo! line-s rut stressed his opirion that more
practical solution woull be for us to utilize for ctoclholair and internal
distribution (or) Jayaneze ca ital anl i terests wo voula to more easil satis.
fied (with) in re ard to uarantee-s Stor Tn ans or to oup resa Itula lor of te
many uncertainties inrolve-d- (iu) e lans a onr etato et that os
entirely contrary to our usual poliey end preetice-s Tur su requestea us ofore

=== Page 472 === (confidence 0.76)
INCOMING CARLFGRAM
OiA
ANSCH
CADLE
NEW YORK
FART II-BAGE
T DEC 27/35
advioin(f fo in
1rm
him y he roosloall
1(0)
nteosw()l
e lis
on aocont oli
Jok. .r I r
1on we oll
()L
ram Doo. 1th
mbaseador ()
Diel seusion ise.
abtlitles poiroloun la
in rasl
roitgan
patent-s i in'
offer 1f li 

=== Page 473 === (confidence 0.96)
January 3, 1956.
Dear Mr. Parker:
The receipt is askmewledged with thanks of your
Letter of Deeember 27, l955, and of the eepy enelesed
therewith of a cable wmder date Desember 27, received
frem your Yokehame offiee, in regard to recent develep-
ments in the oil situatien in Japan.
894.6363/24
It is assumed that in due course the Department
will be informed or the decisions reached by the
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company in regard to this matter
Sincerely yours,
Stanley K. Hornbeek,
Chiof,
Division of Far Eastern Affairs.
Mr. P. W. Parker,
Standard-Vaouum Oil Company,
JAN 4 1936
26 Broadway,
New York, New York.
A ru
1 mN
FE:RCM:EJL
FE

=== Page 474 === (confidence 0.99)
FMENT OF STATE
ON OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 14, 1936.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1609, Decem-
bor 27, 1935, AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS
IN JAPAN, is the Embassy's periodic
report on developments with regard
to the Japanese Petroleum Law. All
points contained in it have been covered
in telegrams already received from
Tokyo hereto attached (No. 240, Decem-
ber 13, 6 p.m.; No. 246, December 19,
3 p.m.; No. 251, December 26, 2 p.m.).
At the time of this despatch the
Ambassador had not made diplomatic
representations in support of the
refusal of the oil companies to carry
six months' stocks; but Tokyo's sub-
sequent telegram No. 3, January 7,
1 p.m., reports that the Ambassador
discussed the situation with the Vice
Minister for Foreign Affairs on
January 7 and that the Vice Minister
made no comment except to say that the
government had no intention to deprive
the foreign companies of a reasonable
economic return.
Because of the receipt of the
above-mentioned telegraphic reports,
your detailed reading of this despatch
is not necessary.
894.6363/242
CC
CC/DLY

=== Page 475 === (confidence 0.94)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Tokyo, December 27, 1935.
1609.
SUBJECT:
AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
yile
JE 19387
894.6363
Cohy A
Lmdm
C
hem
A
nov
No
894.6363/242
336
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
237
No. 1590, dated December 12, 1935, and to previous cor-
respondence on the subject of the difficulties being ex-
perienced in Japan by the American oil interests under
the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report the following
dovelopments in the situation.
Stook-keeping Obligation.
As was reported in the Embassy's despatch No. 1590,
the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company and the Rising Sun Petroleum
Company
F/FG

=== Page 476 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
authorized their looal representatives to inform the
Japanese Government that they could not, as a commeroial
proposition, undertake the additional expenditure re-
quired for storing six months' supplies of oil, and to
offer the Japanese Government a coal liquefaction process
in return for a confirmation by the Japanese Government
of the program outlined in the Five Point Memorandum of
last April . This was done by the local representatives
on December 14, by means of a joint letter addressed
to the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry, a copy
1/ of whioh is enclosed. This letter points out that the
stock-holding compensation plan does not contain eny
real alleviation of the situation, that the companies
are not assured of an economic return upon the addi-
tional capital expenditure required by the six months'
stock-holding, that there is an uncertain basis at all
times for payment for stocks held in Japan (which can
be requisitioned by the Government at prices set by the
Government), that the requirement that stocks be replaced
after requisition practically gives the Government an option
on the whole output of the compenies, and that therefore
the companies are unable to undertake any extra capital
expenditure beyond that envisaged in the Five Point Memo-
randum. The letter then proceeds to outline the offer
of the hydrogenation process.
On December 16 the local representative of the Stan-
dard- Vacuum Oil Company approached the Mitsui Bussan Kaisha
with the offer of the hydrogenation process, because it
was believed that the Japanese Government would want the
projeot

=== Page 477 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
projeot carried out by a commeroial organization rather
than by the Government, because it was known that the
Mitsui Bussan Kaisha had already exhibited an interest
in acquiring the rights to the process, and because it
was thought that the offer would be better received by
the Japanese Government if it were endorsed by a firm
of the standing of Mitsui. The proposal was received
somewhat coolly by the representative of the Mitsui Bussen
Kaisha, who pointed out that the Government had found diffi-
culty in finding the small amount of money required par-
tially to compensate the oil companies for the cost of
stook-holding, and would find it much more difficult to
obtain funds to finance a acheme of such magnitude as
that envisaged by the companies' offer. He also pointed
out that the process is not commercially profitable. How-
ever, he promised to explore the possibilities of the offer,
and suggested that the oil companies might be relieved of
their troubles by selling from "the other side", implying
that the companies should turn their Japan business over
to Japanese firms.
On December 22 Mr. Dickover of the Embassy had a
lengthy conversation with ir. Kurusu, the Chief of the
Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, on the
subject of oil. A memorandum of this conversation is en-
2/olosed . Mr. Kurusu said that the Ministry of Conmerce and
Industry would send a "pretty stiff" reply to the companies'
letter of December 14 and suggested that the companies had
three alternatives, namely, to withdraw from Japan entirely,
to carry six months' storage with a Government guarantee of
minimum

=== Page 478 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
to comply with the law; that administrative measures, such
as reduction of quotas to a point where the companies will
be complying with the law, will also be applied; and that
the matter of the process for the liquefaction of coal has
no connection with the obligation of stock-holding.
Representations.
The local representatives of the foreign oil com-
panies requested their respective Embassies, upon sub-
mitting their letter of December 14 to the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry, to support by diplomatic represen-
tations their refusal to carry six months' stocks and
their request for a reversion to the program of the Five
Point Memorandum. The Department approved of the repre-
sentations, provided they could be coordinated in sub-
stance and timing with those of the British Ambassador
and provided that the American Government not be asso-
ciated in any way in the representations with the offer
to provide the Japanese Government with the hydrogenation
process. The British Ambassador, acting upon his general
instructions, took up the matter orally and informally
with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on December 17, in
the course of a conversation on other matters. He said
that the oil companies had been greatly disappointed by
the recent course of events and had regretfully de-
cided that they could not, on purely commercial grounds,
undertake to keep six months' stocks. He added that he
was not speaking under instructions, but that he hoped
that the Japanese Government would seriously consider
the companies' letter to the Ministry of Commerce and
Industry

=== Page 479 === (confidence 0.99)
-6 -
Industry and the offer contained therein. He further
stated that it was known that the military were in faot
responsible for the present law, and thet it was unreason-
able to expect the oil companies to bear the burden of un-
economically storing oil for military purposes. Mr. Hirota
apparently had not seen the letter from the oil companies
to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, but he gave it as
his opinion that the whole question would probably be cired
when the Diet meets, on the ground that the enforcement
of the law has been delayed until July 1, l936. He added
that it was possible that some solution of the difficulties
would be found either before or when the explanations are
given in the Diet.
In the course of a conversation which Mr. Neville
of the Embassy had with Mr. Kurusu of the Foreign Office
on December 18, Mr. Kurusu brought up the subject of oil
and asked Mr. Neville if the letter which the oil companies
had sent to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry meant
that the oil companies had the intention of defying the
Japanese Government. Mr. Neville stated that it meant
only that, purely as a commercial proposition, the oil
companies were unable to comply with the stock-holding
provisions of the law and that they could not therefore
do business in Japan under the terms of the law. Mr.
Kurusu then proceeded to state that the decision of the
oil companies was a source of considerable perturbation
to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. He said that
it would be necessary to do something in regard to the
situation, because Japan would have to look elsewhere
and make other arrangements in order to obtain the oil
supplies

=== Page 480 === (confidence 0.98)
- 7 -
supplies necessary for the country if the foreign oil
companies should withdraw from Japan. He then ex-
pressed the intention of discussing the situation with
the local representatives of the foreign oil companies
before further developments took place.
As the British Ambassador took up the oil question
with the Minister for Foreign Affairs only incidentally
in the course of a conversation on other matters, this
Embessy decided that it would be best to follow the same
procedure, and instead of calling on the Minister for
Foreign Affairs for the sole purpose of discussing the
oil situation, to await an opportunity to bring up the
question when interviewing the Minister on some other
subject. This decision was strengthened by the fact
that Mr. Kurusu had indicated to Mr. Neville that the
Japanese Government is perturbed over the situation and
is giving it serious attention. Unless something occurs
to alter the situation, therefore, the first opportunity
will be taken to make informal and oral representations
to the Minister or Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs,
in the course of conversation on other subjeots.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures: Copy of Letter to Vice Minister for Commerce
and Industry, dated December 14, 1935.
Memorandum of Conversation, Mr. Kurusu and Mr.
Dickover, dated December 23, 1935.
Translation of Memorandum of Verbal Notice,
dated December 23, 1935.
863.3
ERDIr

=== Page 481 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.1 to despatoh
No.1609 of December
,1935
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
14th Decemger, 1935.
Your Excellenoy:
We beg leave to advise you that we have received by
cable from our principals a communication in regard to the
information and explanations kindly given to us by Your
Excellency and Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of Com-
mercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, concerning the policy
and plans of the Imperial Japanese Government as embodied
in the Petroleum Industry Law and the revision thereof
effected by Imperial Ordinance No. 272 and Commerce and
Industry Departmental Ordinance No. 5 of 19th September, 1935.
Our principals wish us to inform Your Excellency that
they have given most exhaustive consideration to the position
but they regret they have come to the conclusion that the
stock-holding compensation plan does not appear to contain
any real alleviation of the situation. They quite understand
that no Government can bind itself for a long period on such
a matter: therefore, in their opinion and entirely from a
commercial point of view, they cannot see that our companies
are assured an economic return on the additional capital
expenditure required by the six months' stock-holding ob-
ligation - particularly under a system of annual quotas which
gives our companies no security for trade for longer than
twelve months.
Quite apart from this question of capital expenditure
there is also an uncertain basis at all times for payment
for stocks of petroleum held in Japan : and here again, from
a purely commeroial standpoint, our principals feel that our
companies are placed in a position that no bona fide trader
should

=== Page 482 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
should be asked to undertake. Still another condition which
no commeroial concern could accept is the requirement that
stocks must be replaced after Government requisition, which
in effeot would give the Government an option on the whole of
our companies' production.
Therefore, although our companies are willing and anxious
to supply the needs of the Japanese Empire in the same manner
as we have always done under all circumstances in the past, our
principals are regretfully compelled to instruct us to inform
Your Excellency's Government that they cannot undertake any
extra capital expenditure beyond that envisaged in the Five
Point Memorandum which was drawn up after prolonged discussions -
and after, our principals believe, the officials of the Imperial
Japanese Government and our companies both had fully realized
each other's desires and difficulties - and which was reached
as an effective and satisfactory compromise to meet the conditions
of today.
Nevertheless, although our principals have reached the
foregoing conclusion after mature deliberation and believe
it to be the only one which a commercial concern could consider
in the circumstances, they wish to put forward one suggestion
which may enable the Imperial Japanese Government to confirm
the Five Point Memorandum as originally negotiated and at the
same time achieve the aim which they have clearly shown they
have in mind, namely the safeguarding of the petroleum supply
position in time of emergency.
As Your Excellenoy is no doubt aware, our companies are
part-owners of the only satisfactory patent for the liquefaction
of

=== Page 483 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
of coal by the process of hydrogenation and our principals
have authorized us to state that they can arrange with our
companies' co-partners in this patent that the license for
its use be granted to the Imperial Japanese Government -
or to such commercial or other body as they may appoint -
to enable them to ereot plant to produce petroleum products
from the indigenous supply of coal. The terms and condi-
tions of such a licence would include expert advice for the
erection of the plant and its preliminary running.
In communicating the foregoing to Your Excellency we beg
to emphasize that by utilizing our experience and patents
to make the domestic coal supply readily available for the
manufacture of petroleum by the hydrogenation process, the
Imperial Japanese Government would always have under their
control a substantial source of constant supply in any
emergenoy. We feel therefore that this proposal made by
our principals with a view to solving our respective prob-
lems is of the highest constructive value and importance
and we shall await with interest the views of Your Ex-
cellency's Government.
We are,
Your Excellency's obedient servants,
For the Rising Sun Petroleum Company, Ltd.
Managing Director
For the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company.
Assistant General Manager.
His Excellenoy Yoshino Shinji,
Vice-Minister of Commerce & Industry.
T O K YO.

=== Page 484 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure 2-
despatch No. 1609
December 27, 1935
Tokyo Embassy
MEMORANDUM
December 23, 1935.
Conversation: Mr. S. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of
Commercial Affairs, Foreign Orrice, Tokyo.
Mr. E. R. Dickover.
In the course of a long conversation with Mr.
Kurusu last evening, he brought up the matter of the
Petroleum Industry Law and the position of the foreign
oil companies. He first said that he thought that it
was "rather silly" of the oil companies to send to the
Department of Commerce and Industry a definite refusal
to store sir months' stocks of oil in Japan, because
it put the Japanese Government in a position where it
would have to take a decided stand. I pointed out that
the companies had no alternative - the Shokosho was de-
manding a definite reply, and as the storing of six
months' supply of oil was not feasible as a commercial
proposition, the companies could only refuse to do it.
He said that the Japanese oil companies were carrying
out the requirement of storing the oil. and if they
could do it, why could not the foreign companies? I
pointed out that the foreign oil companies were not in
the same position as the Japanese companies, as the
. latter were sure that the Government would take care of
them and assist them in developing refining in Japan,
whereas the foreign companies were in a most precarious
position, with uncertain quotas and prices and moreover
were faced with the problem of meeting the extreme
nationalism in Japan. Mr. Kurusu then inveighed against
the

=== Page 485 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
the tendenoy toward economic nationalism throughout the
world, stating that he himself, like Mr. Machida, the
Minister for Commerce and Industry, was a liberal economist
of the old Adam Smith school of thought, believing in the
principle of laissez faire . He stated that he thought
that something might be done to make the position of the
foreign oil companies more secure, such as guaranteeing
them minimum quotas. I said that the quotas would have
to be guaranteed for a long period, say twenty years, in
order that the companies would have a reasonable opportunity
to amortize their investments. Moreover, I said, there
would have to be some sort of guarantee that the companies
would be able to sell at a price which would give them a
profit, as the present system of price-fixing by the Govern-
ment was an added factor of uncertainty. I pointed out
that during recent years the foreign oil compenies had not
made any considerable profit in Japan - in fact, during
some years they had had a loss. Kurusu said that he
could not understand that, because the Japanese refiners
were able to buy our crude, refine it, and sell the pro-
ducts at a profit. If they could do it, why could not
the American companies, with their much larger plants
and turnover? I said that that did not quite state the
case, because the importers of refined products had to
operate under a tariff system which gave a decided ad-
vantage to the domestic refiners. Moreover, I said, the
Japanese refiners, as I understood it, had not been making
a profit. Such dividends as they had paid, according to
my information, had been paid out of capital. Anyway,
ga1d

=== Page 486 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
said Kurusu, the unprofitable price of gasoline is
the companies' own fault. They starteda price war
before the Government ever became involved in the oil
question.
Mr. Kurusu then stated that the Ministry of Com-
merce and Industry would soon send the foreign oil com-
panies a "pretty stiff" reply to their letters notifying
the Government that they could not agree to store six
months' supply of oil. He said that the representa-
tives of the foreign oil companies, after receiving
their replies, had better not run to Yoshino or others
in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to discuss
the matter but had better come to him (Kurusu). He
said that he would not invite them to come to him, but
that he would be glad to discuss matters with them in a
friendly spirit if they should desire it after receiving
the replies. I said that I would convey his suggestion
to the American oil interests.
Mr. Kurusu then expressed the opinion that there
were three alternatives which the foreign oil companies
could follow, namely, (1) they could "pack up" and leave
Jepan, but this was the least desirable of the alterna-
tives, (2) they could agree to put in six months' storage
on condition that they are given some sort of govern-
mental guarantee of minimum business over a period of
time, or (3) they could have their quotas out to a point
where their present tankage would represent six months'
storage of the reduoed quotas. I said that I had lived
in the Orient for a long time, and that I knew that
affairs here were not usually as cut and dried as was
intimated by Mr. Kurusu - that generally there was
found to be some method of compromise. I asked Mr.
Kurusu

=== Page 487 === (confidence 0.99)
Kurusu if he had any ideas as to a compromise soheme,
especially any soheme which would permit a reversion
to the Five Point program negotiated last April. Mr.
Kurusu said that he had not liked to speak of it for
fear of being misunderstood, but that he had been con-
siduring, for some time past, the plan of having Japa-
nese capital carry six months' stock for the foreign
companies. He said that some arrangement might be
reaohed whereby large Japanese capitalists, such as the
Mitsuis, could take over the Standard-Vacuum distri-
buting organization in Japan and put up the additional
capital to provide for the six months' storage, the
profits from the business to be divided between the
two organizations according to the value of the invest-
ments. The arrangement of details, said Mr. Kurusu,
would be none of the Government's business - the com-
panies would have to work that out themselves. But the
foreign oil companies would thereby be relieved of the
burden of stock-keeping and would simply sell o.i.f.
Japanese ports to the concerns in Japan.
I stated that there were several objeotions to this
scheme. In the first place, the foreign oil companies
had been building up their businesses in Japan for some
forty or fifty years, and they would not like to turn over
this carefully-nurtured trade to Japanese interests. In the
second place, the profits from the trade at present were
insufficient to pay a decent return on the capital in-
vested by the oil interests, and therefore the profits
could not be expected to pay adequate returns to both
sets of investors. In the third place, the large Japa-
nese interests , such as Mitsui and Mitsubishi, already
had refineries in Japan, and it was only to be expected
that

=== Page 488 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
that they would throw all the available business to their
products, in order to obtain the refining as well as the
distributing profit. As a result, the foreign oil com-
panies would find their sales to Japan gradually decreasing.
Kurusu said that those questions could all be settled be-
tween the business men - that contracts could be made for
long-term deliveries. I said that I believed that Mitsui
had had some such plan in view before the oil law went
into effect, as I knew that they had approached the Amer-
ioan oil interests on the subject, but that they had
dropped the negotiations when the oil law was passed by
the Diet, presumably because they thought the plan no
longer feasible. Kurusu said that that was just busi-
ness - they were using the oil law as a means of getting
lower valuations on the Standard properties and good-will.
He said, however, that as far as he knew, no Japanese
interests had ever negotiated with the British oil in-
terests in Japan, and he supposed that the Staniard in-
torests would not now desert their friends and make some
kind of a contract alone. I said that I had no informa-
tion on that point,that their future actions would of course
depend upon future developments, but that my impression was
that neither one would take any important step unless the
other took the same step.
Mr. Kurusu then turned to the subject of the offer made
by the oil interests to trade their coal hydrogenation pro-
cess to the Japenese Government for a reversion to the Five
Point program negotiated last April. Mr. Kurusu said that
he did not think that the scheme would work. In the first
place, the precess is not commercially profitable - very
heavy intestments would be required to erect the necessary
plants

=== Page 489 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
plants and the gasoline produced cost considerably more
than gasoline made from crude oil. The Government had no
money to invest in the plants and could not subsidize the
product, as is done in England. Moreover, said Kurusu, the
Japanese have been working on coal hydrogenation for a long
time, end have developed a process even better than the
I.G. process which the oil companies propose to trade to
Japan. The process developed in Japan is a military secret
but is said to be the best in the world. I said that I
knew nothing of the process or the proposal to trade it to
Japan, as the American Government was in no way associated
with the proposal.
The conversation then turned to other subjects.
E. R. D.

=== Page 490 === (confidence 0.99)
EnclosureNo. 3 to despatoh
No. 1609 of December 27,1935
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
(Translation)
Momorandum of Verbal Notice
(Dec. 23rd, 1935
Shiniohi Kojima, Director
of the Mine Bureau)
We understand with great regret, from your letter
addressed to the Vice-Minister of Commerce and Industry
under date of Dec. l4th, that the principals of your com-
pany have not yet understood the spirit of the legisla-
tion of our Petroleum Industry Law and the authorities'
polioy for the operation of this law. Thinking that they
might lack a clear cognizance of it, we herewith candidly
reiterate the view of the authorities, which we wish you
to convey to the principals of your head office.
As for the 6 months' supply holding duty provided for
in the Petroleum Industry Law, the Government, in view of
the actual condition of the oil-industrialists, gave the best
consideration to it and revised the Law the other day, and
thereby made it olear that the 6 months' supply holding duty
remains unchanged and at the same time took a step to grant
a reasonable period of delay in the performance of the stock
holding duty. Though you, in your letter, refer us to the
memorandum of five paragraphs, the result of the recent
private talk, as pointed out previously, is by no means
binding upon the Government, and in the course of the talk,
we fully explained the purposes of the Petroleum Industry
Law as well as our policy for the operation of the same,
and repeatedly stated that it would be very difficult sub-
stantially to ohange the 6 months' supply holding duty.
The Government, having already taken the above-mentioned
step, must rigidly enforce the provisions of the Law - it
can not manage to change the same in any way.
Therefore

=== Page 491 === (confidence 0.98)
-2 -
Therefore an oil-industrialist, regardless of its
nationality, has no means to continue its business legi-
timately otherwise than by observing the rigid laws of the
country. If it disregards the same, a legal sanotion will
naturally be applied against it. That you, in your letter
of Dec. l4th, stated your inability to hold a stock over
3 months' supply, will create a state of the violation of
the Law. In that case, we shall be obliged to apply the
prescribed sanction against your company.
In addition to the above-mentioned legal sanction, we
shall have to take necessary administrative measures, such
as reduction in the sales quota allotted you, so as to make
it possible for you to carry on your business legitimately
in the future, and to prevent the violation of the Law as
far as possible. We will take into consideration the re-
lations of your equipment for stock-holding.
The question of liquefaction of coal is one which is
entirely different from the question of observing the Law.
How to operate the Petroleum Industry Law on account of a
change in the coal liquefaction industry or in any other
industry has nothing whatever to do with the enforcement of
the legal provisions regarding the stock-holding duty, it
being clearly a question to be dealt with in the future.

=== Page 492 === (confidence 0.88)
January 16 1936
-1091
To the merieen Ambpssaéer,
Leméen.
894.6363/242
The Sessetary of State refers to previeus correspend-
anee ta regard to the eil situatiam in Japea and, in eem-
mestéem therewith, emeloses, for the informatien of the
Ambassmder, a copy of despateh No. l609 of December 27,
1956, with 1te enelesures, from the Ameriean Ambassader
at Tokyo.
Enelesare:
Frem Dmbassy Tokyo
No. 1609, De0ember 27,
1935, with enelesures.
Depurtconts
Instruction to
London No. 1091,
un ur1, 1936.
894.6363/242
1
neu
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
min
1/14/36
h

=== Page 493 === (confidence 1.00)
55
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 15, 1936.
Decision with regard to
the development outlined in the
attached telegram (Tokyo's No.
12 of January 15, 11 a.m.) must
be made by the New York and
London offices of the concerned
oil interests to which the
matter has been referred.
At least for the present
no action is required of the
Department.
RCM:EJL

=== Page 494 === (confidence 0.93)
56
CACAL
TELEGRAM RECEIVED
1—1836
FROM
FS
This telegram must be
Tokyo
closely paraphrased be-
fore being communicated
Dated January 15,1936
Naky
to anyone. (A)
Rec'd 1:27 a. m
七
Lurtr
l
Secretary of State,
894.6363/243
nivision of
C
Washington.
TERN AFFAIRS
AN 15980
Departmrrt of Stare
Embassy's 253, Decenber 28, noon.
One. At a recent conforence of the representatives
of the foreign oil companies with Kurusu the latter
stated that the Vice Minister for Commerce and Industry
agrees in princinle with the nlan of giving the oil
companies governmental guarantees covering quotas over
an extensive period, reasonable profit and maximum
stock holding obligation as well as equal treatment
with Japanese refiners should the oil companies desire
to refine in Japan. Kurusu therefore requests tho oil
FILED
companies to propose definite terms upon which thoy
will comply with tho stock holding nrovision of tho
law and the question has boon roferred to New York
and London for considoration.
Two. Tho Embassy and the local reprosontatives
of the oil companios aro of the opinion that the Japan-
ose authorities are now sincorely ondoavoring to find
F/G
somo solution of the problom which will pormit opposing
4
o11

=== Page 495 === (confidence 0.98)
57
FS
2-No. 12, January 15, 11 a. m. from Tokyo
oil companics to gontinuc in business in Japan although
it appears highly improbable that they will be able
to allow stock holding obligation. It, thoreforc,
anpoars desirablo that the Jap-noso proposal out-
lined abovo be carufully considered.
CSB
GREW

=== Page 496 === (confidence 0.95)
MENT OF
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JAN 1 5 1936
DIVISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
DIVISION OF
January 9, 1936.
Conversation:
Mr. C. A. Thompson, Standard-Vacuum
Coby
Oil Company;
Fus
Lmdm
Mr. Hornbeck;
Coby t
(1245)
Division of
CONFIDENTIAL
FAH LASTERN AFFAIKS
Mr. Hamilton;
894.6363
Mr. Mackay.
894.6363/244
Subject: Oil situation in Japan.
Mr. Thompson referred to the oil situation in Japan
and said that, while in Washington on other business, he
wished to acquaint the Department orally with certain
recent developments which, at least in part, are of a
confidential nature.
Mr. Thompson said that a sharp cleavage of opinion
had ocourred recently between the Standard Oil Company of
New York on the one hand and the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey and the Shell interests on the other hand;
that whereas, in view of the failure of the foreign oil
companies to interest the Japanese Government in the
FILED
hydrogenation process for the manufacture of oil, the
Standard of New York desired to associate the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company with the Mitsui interests, insofar as
the Japan trade is concerned, the Standard of New Jersey .
and the Shell interests were adamant in their refusal to
accept

=== Page 497 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
accept in any form the principle of maintaining six-
months' supplies of oil; that the Standard of New Jersey
had, however, declined to approve of the issuance to the
Japanese Government of a further blunt statement to the
effect that unless adherence is made to the conditions
outlined in the five-point memorandum of last spring the
foreign oil companies will cease all operations in Japan;
that in consequence of the foregoing a deadlock had oc-
curred; and that it is likely that there will ensue a de-
lay of approximately three weeks before there are reached
any final conclusions in regard to the matter.
At this point Mr. Thompson handed to Mr. Hornbeck a
statement (later shown to Mr. Hamilton and to Mr. Mackay)
which purported to give the substance of a conversation
by long distance telephone on January 3 between Mr. Agnew
of the Shell interests in London and Mr. H. Wilkinson of
the Shell interests in New York. Briefly stated, the mes-
sage conveyed to Mr. Wilkinson was to the effeot that news
recently received by the British Foreign Office in regard
to the Far Eastern situation had been "enoouraging"; that
relations between Great Britain and Japan have improved
materially of late; and that Japan now realizes that her
excessively aggressive policy will have to be modified to
the extent of at least taking into account Japanese rela-
tions with Great Britain and other powers.
The

=== Page 498 === (confidence 0.94)
- 3 -
The message also inoluded a statement to the effeot
that Japan, through indirect channels, had attempted to
sound out London and Paris on the subject of recent de-
velopments in North China; and that such approaches had
been received coldly with a statement to the effect that
if Japan had any ideas to convey they should be put in
the form of a concrete proposal.
Considerable doubt was expressed by all present
whether the facts of the situation would substantiate the
opinions and conclusions set forth in the message under
reference.
Mr. Thompson, before turning to another subject,
said that the Standard Oil Company desired to keep the
Department fully informed of all developments of impor-
tanoe but preferred that, at least for the moment, the
message under reference be considered as confidential and
as having been received orally.
ocu0.mH
FE:RCM:EJL
2111

=== Page 499 === (confidence 0.88)
FE
January 27 1936
934
To the Amerteem Ambassader,
Tokye.
The Sesretary ef State refere to the Ambassséer's
tußegram Ne. 12 ef Jammary 15, 11 a.., and to previeus
eessespeniemse in regard to the oil situatiem in Japen
894.6363/244
and emeleses, fer the iafermatien of the Ambassaéor, a
éspy of a memeraném of a cenversetten whieh cseurred
 Jammary 9, 196s, betweem Mr. C. A. Thompeem ef the
Stemfare-Vaeumm Oil Campany and effieere of the Depart-
momt.
Emolesure:
Mamorandm of
Jamuary 9, 1936.
894.6363/245
ceus
FE:RCM:EJL
FE
M
1/27/36
SFH

=== Page 500 === (confidence 0.99)
ARTMENT OF STATE
BION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
January 30, 1936.
Tokyo's despatch No. 1629, January 10,
1936, reports current developments with
rogard to the Japanese Petroleum Industry
Law. It refers particularly to a con-
versation on December 27 between the
Standard and Shell representatives and
Mr. Kurusu of the Foreign Office in
which Mr. Kurusu was apparently sounding
out the companies further; and to a con-
versation on January 8 between
Mr. Dickover and Mr. Kurusu, the meat
of which was that Mr. Kurusu came to the
conclusion that the problem boils down
to the question of governmental guarantees
of future business at a profit to the
foreign oil companies.
Several days after this despatch
was written (January 10) the Embassy
sent 1ts telegram No. 12, January 15,
11 a.m., which reported that Mr. Kurusu
at a recent conference with the oil
companies stated that the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry agreed in
prinoiple with the plan of giving the
oil companies governmental guarantees
covering quotas over an extensive
period, reasonable profit and maximum
stock holding obligation, as well as
•qual treatment with Japanese refiners
should the oil companies desire to
refine in Japan. In its telegram the
Embassy

=== Page 501 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
Imbassy stated: "The Embassy and the
local representatives of the oil
companies are of the opinion that the
Japanese authorities are now sincerely
endeavoring to find some solution of
the problem which will permit opposing
oil companies to continue in business
in Japan although it appears highly
improbable that they will be able to
allow stock holding obligation. It,
therefore, appears desirable that the
Japanese proposal outlined above be
carefully considered."
In the light of the important
statements in the Embassy's telegram
of January 15, the attached despatch
of January 10 has lost its importance
and in its details does not require
your attention.
894.6363/245
CC
FE:CC/DLY

=== Page 502 === (confidence 0.94)
15
EMBASSY OF THE
ruy 4 1938 (xm)
Tokyo, January 10, 1936.
No. 1629.
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTERESTS IN JAPAN.
Coky a Lrmdom
194.6363
No
26
894.6363/245
Zelo
A
T
pay
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the Embassy's despatch
242
No. 1609 dated December 27, 1935, and to previous cor-
respondence on the subject of the difficulties being ex-
perienced in Japan by the American and other foreign oil
interests under the Petroleum Industry Law, and to report
the following developments in the situation.
Conversations.
On December 27, 1935, the representatives of the
Standard and Shell interests, in accordance with a sug-
gestion advanced by Mr. Kurusu through Mr. Dickover of
the

=== Page 503 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
the Embassy, called upon Mr. Kurusu, the Chief of the
Bureau of Commercial Affairs of the Foreign Office, to
disouss the situation and to explore the possibilities
of solutions of the problems confronting both the Govern-
ment and the oil compenies. In the course of the con-
versations Mr. Kurusu advanced much the same solutions
of the problems as he hed previously advanced to Mr.
Dickover on December 22, 1935. As, however, the point
of view of the foreign oil companies was brought out
1/
in the conversation, a copy of a memorandum of the con-
versation is enclosed herewith for the information of
the Department.
The gist of the conversation was telegraphed to
the head offices of the Standerd and Shell interests
by their respective representatives on December 28.
Under date of December 31, 1935, the London head office
of the Rising Sun Petroleum Company telegraphed to the
local representative pointing out (1) that the Company
would not be willing to carry six months' stocks in
their existing storage facilities on a reduced trade
quota, (2) that it is not practicable for the Company
to carry stocks in excess of normal commercial require-
ments, namely, two or three months' stocks, (3) that
the arrangements suggested by Mr. Kurusu do not dispose
of the difficulty in connection with the Government option
on the stocks at any price they may cere to fix, (4) that
they do not dispose of the difficulty that the Company is
always under obligation to replenish those stocks, and
(5) that the suggestion that Japanese capital be employed
to

=== Page 504 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
to carry the six months' stocks is impracticable. The
telegram further instructed the local representative
to urge Mr. Kurusu to return to the Five-Point Memo-
randum of last April, as that agreement furnished the
basis for the guarantees which Mr. Kurusu now recog-
nized that the oil companies required.
On January 2, 1936, the London offices of the Shell
interests telegraphed to the New York offices of the
Standard-Vacuum Oil Company to the effect that their
information indicated that the Japanese Government
was exhibiting "extreme anxiety" to retain the servi-
ces of the two interests; that a compromise on the basis
of the Five-Point Memorandum was by no means impossible;
and that the two interests should continue to maintain
a strong joint attitude against the stock-keeping legis-
lation, as the real position would be disclosed within
the next three weeks. This telegram was relayed out to
the local representative of the Standard interests, who
replied under date of January 4, 1936, that while it ap-
peared that the Japanese Government wished to find some
solution which might retain the two companies in the
Japanese trade, it seemed to be an exaggeration to state
that the Government was showing "extreme anxiety"; that
it appeared likely that the oil issue would be aired in
the Diet but it was impossible to state to what extent,
if any, the law would be modified in consequence; that
unless the Diet intervened the stock-keeping issue could
be regarded as settled; that the foreign oil companies
will only be offered guarantees and a maximum stook-keep-
ing requirement in addition to compensation as en inducement
to

=== Page 505 === (confidence 0.99)
-4 -
to conform with the law; that it was considered inad-
visable at the moment to declare the companies' re-
fusal to carry the stocks required by law in the ex-
isting tankage with reduced quotas commensurate with
that storage; and that the Government, recognizing
the advantage of importing some finished products,
was finding it practical to reach some compromise
along the lines suggested by r. Kurusu. On January
6, l936, the local representative of the tising Sun
Petroleum Company telegraphed to the head office of the
Company, agreeing with the views expressed by the local
representative of the Standard interests and adding
that he believed that the Government, although en-
couraged by the accumulation of stocks by the Japanese
companies and the ease with which crude oil may be
obtained, was still uneasy in regerd to future oil
supplies unless connections could be maintained with
the two big interests; that the Government wished to
come to some agreement with the oil companies before
the Diet reconvened;that if the Government's guarantee
offers should not be acceptable, some possibility ex-
isted that, with the Diet's approval, a change in the
stock-keeping requirements might be made; end that until
the position became more clear nothing was to be lost
and everything to be gained by maintaining a strong
attitude.
On January 8, 1936, r. Dickover, of the Embassy,
called on Mr. Kurusu at the Foreign Office, at the latter's
reguest

=== Page 506 === (confidence 0.99)
- 5 -
request, to discuss the latest developments of the oil
situation. In the course of an extended conversation,
Mr. Kurusu reviewed the various phases of the problem,
covering much the same ground that he had covered in
his talk with the representatives of the foreign oil
companies on December 27, 1935. A memorandum of the
conversation is enclosed herewith. Mr. Kurusu also
brought up the question of refining in Japan by the
foreign oil interests, but ir. Dickover pointed out
that this solution would also mean large investments
in Japan by the oil interests, and that they would un-
doubtedly wish some sort of assurance of security before
undertaking the expenditure. Lir. Kurusu thought that
something might be done along those lines and said that,
in his opinion, the crux of the whole matter lay in
governmental guarantees of security of business. He
promised to explore the possibilities along this line.
Representatitions.
Acting in compliance with the Department's instruc-
228
tions contained in the Department's No. 199, December 13,
7 p.m., I took advantage of a call on Mr. Shigemitsu,
the Vice Minister for Foreign Affairs, on January 7, 1936,
on other matters, to bring up the oil question, discussing
the situation of the oil companies on the basis of para-
graph 4 of the Embassy's telegram No. 240 of December 13,
6 p.m. Mr. Shigemitsu's only comment was that the Govern-
ment had no intention of depriving the foreign companies
of a reasonable economic return and that he would look
into

=== Page 507 === (confidence 0.98)
- 6 -
into the matter in order to see whether anything could
be done on their behalf.
Respectfully yours,
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures: Memorandum of conversation- local representatives
of foreign oil compenies- r. kurusu, on December
27, 1935 at the Foreign Office.
Memorandum of conversation- Mr. Dickover and
Mr. Kurusu, on January 8, 1936, at Foreign Office.
863.6
ERD:r

=== Page 508 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No. ' to despatch
No. 1629 010.1 93
from the Embassy at Tokyo.
NOTES OF MEETING AT FOREIGN OFFICE ON
DECEMBER 27th. 1935.
PRESENT:
Mr. S. Kurusu (Chief of Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Office)
Messrs. Ely (R.S.P.Co.) and Meyer (S.V.O.C.)
Contrary to the manner in whioh he had chosen to arrang•
this meeting through Mr. Dickover of the U.S. Embassy, Mr.
Kurusu did not in any way take up the attitude that it had been
sought by the Companies but proceeded at once to talk along
a line that had clearly been prepared in advance.
He said that, as he saw it, the Companies' reply to Mr.
Yoshino had consisted simply of the offer of the Hydrogenation
process- in which the Japanese Government were not interested -
as a quid pro quo for the stock-holding obligations, and he
described the Companies' attitude as "belligerant" in that they
had stated olearly that they intended to be law-breakers.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer demurred strongly. They emphasized
that, so far from being belligerent or desirous of breaking the
law, their companies had made what they considered to be a very
important and constructive suggestion with the specific object
of obviating any question of law-breaking; and the Hydrogenation
offer, of which Mr. Kurusu had disposed so briefly, showed that
their companies recognized the fundamental objective which the
Japanese Government had in mind and, they felt, would be of
great interest and value to those concerned with the question
of safeguarding Japan's oil supplies in time of emergency.
They emphasized also the intrinsic value of the I.H.P.Co. patents
whioh were the result of the pooled investigations of several
groups and provided without further costly experiments the only
known satisfactory means of liquifying coal by hydrogenation.
Mr. Kurusu said that research in Japan had progressed
beyond the I.H.P.Co. patents. The Government could not consider
the suggestion that had been made and consequently the Companies'
statement that for commercial reasons they could not keep more
than three months' stocks had made it necessary for the Commerce
Department to emphasize its position. This left the two parties
facing each other, each in an uncompromising attitude, and what
Mr. Kurusu wanted to do was to find a way of overcoming such a
situation. He himself had been able to think of only three, or
perhaps four possible solutions:-
The Companies could withdraw altogether from business in
Japan - but the Government did not desire this and Mr. Kurusu
did not think that the Companies themselves wanted to do so.
Or the Companies could reduce their trade so as to accom-
modate in their existing storage the stocks required by the Law.
Incidentally, however, as far as he could see, even so the
Companies must be law-breakers during the second half of next
year, as their stock-holding obligations during that period were
incurred on the basis of their imports during the preceding
twelve months. He suggested that they could easily arrange to
do the trade so sacrificed by making an arrangement to sell
wholesale c.i.f. to Japanese interests who would then be re-
sponsible for the obligations and expenditure inourred.
Then

=== Page 509 === (confidence 0.99)
Then there was another possible solution - the Companies
1ght be willing to keep the stocks stipulated by the Law in
return for suitable guarantees. Mr. Kurusu himselr felt that
any commercial concerns, foreign or Japanese, were justified
in asking for adequate guarantees, in fact they would be fools
if they did not. The sort of guarante he had in mind were
first in respect of a period of trading and the amount of trade
to be done - and he remembered that at the time when the Di-
rectors were here and the Memorandum had been drawn up Mr.
Yoshino had mentioned 50% of the increase in consumption as soon
as slack refining capacity had been used up, or some such
arrangement. Then there was the question of profits - and
here again Mr. Kurusu remembered that there had been something
in the Memorandum to the effect that prices would not be un-
remunerative and that the Companies would not have to sell at a
loss. A commercial concern must obtain a profit on its in-
vestments and of course trade at remunerative prices - and in
regard to the cuestion of prices he could not understand the
reason for there being any trouble at present. If the Japanese
Companies were able to make profits, why not the foreign Com-
panies? Anyhow the Oil Companies themselves were to blame
for the price position .....
Here Messrs. Meyer and Ely interpolated that in the first
place the Japanese Companies were not, in their opinion, making
profits; secondly refiners had in any case a big duty advantage:
and, thirdly, as regards their own Conpanies, so far from con-
sideration having been given to the question of whether they
were making any profit they had been told most frankly at the
time the last gasoline price increase was sanctioned that the
Government's decision had been based entirely on refiners'
costs to the exclusion of those of importers. They also pointed
out the incorrectness of r. Kurusu's statement concerning the
culpability of the petroleum industry.
Mr. Kurusu seid that, anyhow, the price question was
genuinely a difficult one. The Army fellows could not under-
stand the position and said "put up prices if necessary and
let the consumer pay": but it was Mr. Yoshino who had to bear
the brunt of any trouble and had had his office blookaded by
protesting taxi drivers. Also the position of the Commerce
Department had been made exceedingly difficult by state-
ments made by the present Minister's predecessor. Mr. Kurusu
said he did not know what Mr. Yoshino would be able to say
or do about prices, but he himself felt that if the Companies
could be given guarantees on the lines he had suggested they
ought to be willing to continue trading according to the Law.
As regards the continuing stock-holding obligation - a point
which he knew Messrs. Meyer and Ely would bring up in a minute -
he wanted to say that he himself was convinced that it was
impraoticable and that some means must be found to put a
maximum figure on stock-holding: this could be done, he thought,
by departmental regulations without changing the Law and the
Imperial Ordinances. If Messrs. Ely and Meyer thought that
there was any chance of a solution along these lines he would
discuss the matter in detail with Mr. Yoshino.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer said that they would be very glad
to tell their Directors what Mr. Kurusu had suggested. The
guarantees he had mentioned were those which had been dis-
oussed so much when the Directors were here, and, es they
remembered, it had been stressed previously that it was im-
possible for the Government to give such guarantees: there
wore

=== Page 510 === (confidence 0.99)
-3 -
were also many other uncertainties involved in the Law,
such as the basis of the prices at which stocks could be
taken over by the Government .......
Then, said Mr. Kurusu, why did not the Companies
consider what he himself feit to be the most practicable
solution - the use of Jepanese interests who, although
like any other business concern they would want to know
where they stood before investing money, probably would be
satisfied with less specific guarantees? He did not see
why the foreign Companies did not try to make an arrange-
ment whereby the cost of stock-holding and all the un-
certainties which the foreign Companies feared were left
to Japanese interests who would take over the distribution
of the Companies' products in Japan and to whom the Com-
panies could sell wholesale. He went on to develop this
idea at some length.
Messrs. Ely and Meyer reminded r. Kurusu that such
an arrengement had been discussed when the Directors were
here, and, as he knew, was entirely contrary to the policy
and practice of their Companies. Reverting, however, to the
question of guarantees they would like to advise their
Directors of what Mr. Kurusu had suggested.
Mr. Kurusu then said that he had been discussing
what were only his own personal ideas and he would prefer,
therefore, that they should not be passed on to the Direct-
ors before he had had an opportunity of discussing speci-
fically with Mr. Yoshino the question of guarantees. He
would do so the following day and then have another talk
with Messrs. Ely and Meyer. Later on he recollected that
Mr. Yoshino was out of town, so that he would not be able
to see him or discuss the position further with the Com-
penies until after the holidays.
In concluding the interview wir. Kurusu mentioned that
he supposed that, as the Government could not consider the
Hydrogenation offer in lieu of stock-holding, the Companies
would withdraw it. If it were not associated with stook-
holding, the Government might be interested in it.

=== Page 511 === (confidence 0.99)
Enclosure No.to despatch
No.1629 of
/0,/93450m
the Embessy at Tokyo.
Memorandum.
January 8, 1936.
Conversation: Mr. Kurusu, Chief of the Bureau of Commercial
Affairs, Foreign Office.
Mr. Dickover.
I called on Mr. Kurusu at 3:30 this afternoon at his
request, to discuss the oil problem. After reviewing the
situation, Kurusu said that there were, of course, the
two solutions, namely, that the foreign oil companies
could withdraw from Japan entirely, which would not be
satisfactory to anyone, or they could stay here without
putting in six months' storage and have their quotas cut
down so that their present storage would represent six
months' storage. That also would not be satisfactory. I
agreed that neither of the solutions would be agreeable to
the foreign oil companies, as I understood their wishes.
Kurusu then said that a third alternative consisted in
giving the foreign oil companies guarantees, covering
minimum annual quotas, the period of years during which
the quotas would be given, and prices of petroleum pro-
ducts. He said that he thought that the companies should be
satisfied if they had guarentees covering quantities, time
and price, as well as government compensetion for storage
costs. I said that the compensation also was appropriated
annually, and that there should be more certainty in re-
gard to this point. I said that as I understood it, it
was purely a business proposition - the Japanese Govern-
ment was demending that the foreign oil companies invest
considerable

=== Page 512 === (confidence 0.99)
- 2 -
considerable additional sums in Japan, and they, as
business men, naturally could not do so unless they
believed that they could obtain interest and profit on
their money and could amortize their investment in a
reasonable time. Kurusu said that that was quite true,
but that he thought that the guarantees should cover it.
I said that I would discuss the matter with the repre-
sentatives of the oil companies and endeavor to obtain
their views. Kurusu then said that he thought that the
agreement covering the guarantees should be made between
the Japanese and American Governments. I said that I did
not know if that could be done, but that I thought that
it would be sufficient if the agreement were made between
a Department of the Japanese Government and the foreign
oil interests, with the cognizance of the American and
British Governments. Kurusu said that that would probably
do.
I then said that I hoped that some satisfactory agree-
ment which would permit the foreign oil companies to con-
tinue in business in Japan could be reached. I said that
it seemed to me that the military in Japan, who were sup-
posed to be behind the six months' oil storage require-
ment, would be much safer if they kept the two large for-
eign oil interests as friends, with only three months'
storage, than having them as enemies with six months'
storage. I pointed out that Japan could now get plenty
of oil from various small producers in the United States
and elsewhere, but that these small producers could not
be relied upon to supply oil indefinitely, as their fields
would be exhausted in the course of time and they would
have

=== Page 513 === (confidence 0.98)
8
- 3 -
no other resources, while the two big interests
controlled seventy-five per cent of the oil resources
in the world, outside the United States and the Soviet
Union, and whenever one field became exhausted, they
could turn to another, thus assuring a steady supply of
oil at all times. Kurusu said that that was quite true,
but suppose that Jepan became involved in war and both
the American and British interests shut off their sup-
plies of oil to Japan, where would Japan be? That was
why the military were insisting on six months' stocks
of oil. The armies of all nations, said Kurusu, are
like a man sitting on the roof of a house with a hose in
his hand, waiting for the house to catch fire. The mili-
tary are always looking for signs of trouble and pre-
paring for it. I then asked if it was hopeless to look
for any change in the storage requirements of the law,
even if the matter comes up in the Diet. Kurusu said
that he did not believe that there was any chance of
changing the law. They had agreed last April to try to
do it but had found it impossible.
Kurusu then turned to the subject of combinations
between the foreign oil companies and Japanese interests,
so that the foreign companies could have security of
trade and the Japanese interests could carry the burden
of the additional investment required to store six months'
stooks of oil. He said that the foreign oil interests
had absolutely refused to consider any such arrangement,
and asked if I knew why. He said that it sounded reason-
able to him. I said that I did not know their speoifio
reasong

=== Page 514 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
reasons but that several reasons occurred to me which
militated against any such plan. The foreign oil com-
panies had spent many years building up their business
and personnel and did not wish to turn them over to
Japanese interests. Moreover, there was hardly any
profit now in the business of importing petroleum pro-
ducts, and there would be still less if the profits had
to be divided between two interests. The discussion then
turned to prices and profits, in the course of which
Kurusu said that Mitsui and Mitsubishi were not any too
happy over the profits available since they were carry-
ing six months' stocks. Kurusu asked me to ascertain,
if I could, the precise reasons for the oil interests'
objections to turning over their local business to Jape-
nese interests. He said that he supposed that they were
the Fords of the oil industry (referring to the fact that
Henry Ford refused to yield control of his local factory
to Japanese interests).
Kurusu then asked what exactly it was that the foreign
oil interests wanted. He said that he recognized that it
would be advantageous to Japan to keep them here, but they
could not "hold up" Japan on that account. He said that
they wanted too much. I explained the present insecurity
of the foreign oil interests and said that naturally they
could not invest in Japan under the circumstances. He
said that the Japanese oil interests were investing. I
pointed out that the two were in very different situations,
both as regards security of trade and as regards profits,
the Japanese refining companies having the advantage of
a tarirf designed to assist them. Kurusu then wanted to
know

=== Page 515 === (confidence 0.99)
-5 -
know why the foreign oil interests did not, in con-
sequence, refine in Japan. I said that I did not know
exactly, but that I supposed that it again was due to
unwillingness to invest further in Japan while the eco-
nomic nationalism here made security of business im-
possible. He said that he thought that some Govern-
mental guarantee of business might be feasible.
Kurusu then said that it appeared that the whole
matter boiled down to governmental guarantess of future
business at a profit. I agreed that some compromise
might be possible if security of business could be ob-
tained. Kurusu promised to see what could be done, and
Industry as soon as possible on the question.
E. R. D.

=== Page 516 === (confidence 0.92)
FE
February 4 1936
SOINTIAL -STAIL BL GLY
01112
Se the Amerlean Chargé d'Affaires ad interin,
Lenden.
The Searetary of State refers to the Depprtment's
894.6363/245
Instruetim No. 1091 of Jammary 16, 1936, and to previeus
esrrsspeméemee in regard to the oil situatiom in Japam
amd, in eemmestiom therewith, eneloses, for the informs-
tiem of the Ambassador, a eoyy of a memeramdum of a eem-
vermatiem whieh took place om January 9, 1936, betweem
Mr. C. A. Thompson of the Standard-Vacuum Oil Company
and officers of the Department and a copy of despatch
No. 1629 of January 10, 1956, with 1ts enclosures, from
the Amerioan Ambassador at Tokyo.
Enclosures:
Memorandum of
January 9, 1936;
/244
From Embassy Tokyo
No. 1629
January 10, 1936, 245
with enelosures.
Jna
31 1936.FN
894.8363/245
amm
FE:RCM-EJL.
FE
1/31/36

=== Page 517 === (confidence 0.99)
NEW. YORK TIMES
A
Trade 'Open Door' Pledged in Manchukuo;
Curbs Viewed as Blow to Japan Abroad
By STERLING FISHER Jr.
Specias Cable to Tms New Yozz Timss.
HSINKING, Manchukuo, Jan. 12.
"Therefore I am now seeking to.
-For the first time since the es-
guide Manchukuo to abide strictly,
tablishment of Manchukuo four
by its agreement to respect the
years ago the highest official as-
'open door' and all legitimate busi-
surance was given today to Ameri-
nesses. In short, I am urging Man-
can and other foreign business con-
chukuo to recognize these interests
cerns that their rights and interests
in fact as well as in theory, and I
would be safeguarded. This assur-
feel that the situation is now
ance came from General Jiro Min-
ameliorating rapidly."
ami, Japan's supreme representa-
Many officials have admitted to
tive in Manchuria, who has ob-
this writer that they believe the
viously set himself seriously to the
application of the oil monopoly,
task of ameliorating the bad feel-
which drove the big foreign com-
ing created abroad by the hasty
panies out of the retall field, was
and ill-considered acts of certain
an impetuous and irresponsible act,
Manchukuoan officials.
from the viewpoint of its effect on
When this writer mentioned the
Japan's foreign relations. In other
rapid decline of American and
words, Japan and Manchukuo ap-
other trade in Manchuria and said
pear to be gradually becoming
that many foreigners believed this
aware of the effect of their conduct
largely had resulted from some di-
on the rest of the world.
rect and much indirect discrimina-
tion, General Minami said:
After taking full control of Man-
"Of course, the taking over of
chukuo's affairs through foreign
much more foreign trade by Japan
advisers the Japanese conducted an
is partly a natural result of ending
aggressive campaign against for-
the anti-Japanese restrictions for-
eign business and financial inter-
merly practiced by Chang Hsueh-
ests, particularly the American and
iang, of Japanese industrial expan-
British oil companies. Strong pro-
sdon and investment, and many
tests have been made against this
other legitimate factors. Yet 1 re-
policy on the ground that definite
eognise that some of the apprehen-
pledges were given by the Man-
sion felt by foreign business men
chukuoan régime, when it was es-
la fustified by various develop-
tablished, to safeguard the principle
ments.
of the "open door."

=== Page 518 === (confidence 0.99)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
VISION OF FAR EASTERN AFFAIRS
February 11, 1936.
Note farticularly marteed sectims tages 5+6
Tokyo's dospatch No. 1653, Janu-
ary 24, 1936, reports current develop-
ments with regard to the Japanese
Petroleum Industry Law. The first part
of the despatch is devoted to the con-
ference of January ll between Mr. Kurusu
and the representatives of the oil
interests on which occasion Kurusu
indicated a willingness on the part of
the Japanese Government to give con-
sideration to any proposals of the oil
companies for adequate compensation in
return for compliance with the conditions
1mposed by the Petroleum Industry Law.
This conference was reported in the
Embassy's telegram No. 12, January 15,
11 a.m., which was given the Division's
attention upon its receipt.
Replying to this suggestion, the
Standard-Vacuum O1l Company on January 15
telegraphed its representative in Tokyo
stating that concrete proposals would
be forwarded as soon as they could be
compiled. The telegram instructed the
representative to point out to Kurusu
that the oil interests are restrained
from accepting the six months stock
holding requirements not only because
of the extra expenditure required but
also because of the fear that, should
the storage legislation be successful
in

=== Page 519 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2 -
In Japan, 1t will be copied by other
nations whioh possess insufficient
oil supplies, thus placing an impossible
burden upon the oil industry. The
tolegram was conciliatory in tone. An
identioal telegram was received by the
Shell representative.
On January 18 the representatives
informed Kurusu of the oil companies'
apprehension that the stock holding
requirement might become a dangerous
precedent in other countries and Kurusu
promised to discuss the matter with the
Vice Minister of Commerce and Industry.
On January 21, apparently after the
promised conversation, Kurusu again
repeated to the oil representatives that
the Japanese Government would be willing
to consider any proposals which the oil
companies might care to make for the
purpose of obtaining adequate compensation
for compliance with the stock holding
obligation and suggested that the oil
companies might protect themselves by
including a stipulation that they be
relieved of the stook holding obligation
should it develop that the imitation of
this legislation by foreign countries
render physically impossible compliance
by the companies h the obligation.
The conversations between the Japa-
nese officials and the oil representatives
are proceeding in a conciliatory spirit.
The Japanese officials appear now ready
to make the concessions necessary to
retain the foreign oil companies in the
RnD
Japanese field. It appears that the con-
cessions

=== Page 520 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
sions to be made will consist in
rixing the quantity of stock to be
carried at one-halfthe amount imported
in a given year, andAn governmental
guarantees of volume of business,
poriod of trading, and prices.
In my opinion no action on the
despatoh is necessary at the present
time.
894.6363/246
CC
CC/DLY

=== Page 521 === (confidence 0.95)
EMBASSY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
A
Tokyo, January 24, 1936.
No. 1653.
ato
SUBJECT: AMERICAN OIL INTER STS IN JAPAN.
894.6363
42
2
we
894.6363/246
The Honorable
The Secretary of State,
Washington.
Sir:
I have the honor to refer to the mbessy's despatch
246
No. 1629dated January 10, 1936, end to previous correspon-
dence on the subject of the difficulties being experienced
in Japan by the American oil interests under the Petroleum
Industry Law, and to report the following developments in
the situation.
Conversations.
As was stated in the previous conversations between Mr.
Kurusu, members of the staff of this Embassy, and the local
representatives of the foreign oil interests (reported in
despatoh

=== Page 522 === (confidence 0.98)
- 2-
despatch No. 1629), Mr. Kurusu promised to explore the
possibilities of obtaining sufficient guarantees of busi-
ness to warrant the oil companies in complying with the
oil storage provisions of the law end perhaps in establish-
ing refineries in Japan. On January 11, 1936, Ir. Kurusu
called the representatives of the oil interests to his office
and informed them that ir. Yoshino, the Vice Minister for
Commerce and Industry, had agreed in principle with the scheme
of giving adequate guarantees to the foreign oil interests,
in regard to quotas, period of trading and prices. He stated
also that Mr. Yoshino hed agreed that if the foreign oil
interests should desire to refine in Japan, licenses would
be granted to them and they would be given equal treatment
with Japanese refiners. Mr. Kurusu then asked the repre-
Bentatives of the oil interests to obtain from their prin-
cipals concrete proposals embodying the terms upon which
they would continue trading in Japan under the conditions
imposed by the Petroleum Industry Law. lir. Kurusu also
further amplified his previous suggestion that the foreign
oil interests might find it advisable or desirable to work with
Japanese interests and capital, but pointed out tnat he did
not wish to give the impression thet the oil companies were
being coerced into amalgamation with Japanese interests. A
1/
copy of a memorandum of this conversation is enclosed.
The gist of this conversation was telegraphed to their
head offices by the local representatives of the oil interests
and to the Department by this Embassy. From this and previous
conversations with Mir. Kurusu, and from Mr. Kurusu's state-
ments concerning the attitude of the Vice Minister for
Commeroe

=== Page 523 === (confidence 0.99)
- 3 -
Commerce and Industry, it appeared certain that the Japa-
nese officials were endeavoring sincerely to find some
modue operandi which would permit the foreign oil in-
terests to continue to operate in Japan, although the
officials insisted that it was impossible to alter the
six months' stock-holding provision of the law. From
this point of view it appeared desirable that the pro-
posal of the Japanese authorities to give adequate guaran-
tees to the oil interests shoulā receive careful con-
sideretion, and consequently the representatives of the
oil companies reconmended to their principals that trey
eccept the Jepanese proposal and specify definitely the
terms upon w.ich they would continue to operate in Japan.
On January 15, 1936, the local o fice of the Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company received a telegram irom its head orfice
2/
(copy enclosed) stating that concrete proposals would be
forwarded as soon as they could be compiled, expressing
appreciation of the helpful attitude adopted by the Japa-
nese Government, but instructing the local representative
of the Company to point out to Kurusu that the oil interests
are restrained in accepting the six months' stock-holding
requirement not entirely because of the extra expenditure
required but also because of the fear that, should the
storage legislation be successful in Japan, it will be
copied by other nations which possess insufficient oil
supplies, thus placing a burden upon the oil industry which
it might become physically impossible to carry because of
the lack of oil with which to fill the requirements. The
telegram, which was very conciliatory in tone, stated that
the

=== Page 524 === (confidence 0.99)
- 4 -
the Company could probably meet the Japanese Government's
desire for some measure of additional storage if the de-
struotive fecture or the law, referred to above, could be
softened in some way. The local representative of the
Shell interests received an identical telegram from his
head office.
On January 18, 1936, the r presentatives of the oil
interests interviewed Mr. hurusu at the Foreign Uffice and
pointed out to him the dangers existing in the Japanese
six-months'-stock-holding precedent. r. Kurusu promised
to discuss the matter with r. Yoshino, the Vice Minister
for Commerce and Industry. A memorandum of this conversa-
3/
tion is also enclosed.
On January 21, 1936, .r. Kurusu called the local re-
presentatives of the oil interests to the Foreign Office
and informed them thet, although the authorities heve found
it impossible to elter the law, they do not wish to drive
the foreign oil companies from Japan and therefore welcome
the oil companies' willingness to make the concrete proposals
requested by the Japanese. In regard to the cuestion of the
precedent which will be established by Japan in requiring
six months' stocks, r. Kurusu said that Japan had also
established a precedent in that compensation is to be given
for carrying such large stocks, and that if the oil com-
panies should consider the compensation inadequate, the
Japanese Government would be willing to consider any pro-
posals which the oil companies might care to make in this
regard. He also said that the oil companies might protect
themselves in this connection by including a stipulation
that

=== Page 525 === (confidence 0.98)
- 5 -
that they would be relieved of the stock-holding ob-
ligation should it be found that other countries have
copied the Japanese stock-holding law end thus rendered
it physically impossible for the companies to carry the
stocks demended. Mr. Kurusu added that, although recent
developments in Europe indicated the possibility that the
stock-holding legislation might be copied elsewhere, those
developments had also strengthened the conviction of the
military in Japan of the necessity for carrying large
stocks. A copy of a telegram from the local or'fice of the
Staniard-Vacuum Oil Company to the head office, containing
4/
the gist of the conversation, is enclosed herewith.
As can be observed from the above, the conversations
between the Jepanese orficials ari the representatives
of the foreign oil companies are proceeding in a friendly
and conciliatory spirit, and there is now hope that some
working agreement can be reached wnich will be reesonably
satisfactory to both sides. It appears probable that the
Jenenese officials thought that the foreign oil companies
were "bluffing" end that they would eventually yield to
the Japanese Government's demand that they carry six months'
stocks without adequate compensation or guarantees, but
when they discovered that the oil companies were firm in
their decision to withdraw from Japan before complying
with the Japanese demand, the officials changed their
attitude and are now ready to make the concessions
necessary to retain the foreign oil compenies in the
Japanese field. The concessions which will be made, it
appears, will consist of fixing the quantity of stocks
to be carried at one-half the amount imported in a certain
year, which will not increase as the volume of business
increases

=== Page 526 === (confidence 0.96)
- 6 -
increases year by year and thus will represent, in the
course of a few years, not six months' stocks, but three
or four months' stocks. In addition, governmental
guarantees will be given covering the volume of business,
period of trading, prices, etc. It mey be possible, how-
ever, that in return the Japenese Govern..ent will ask
for some guarantee from the companies covering the
certain and steady supplying of oil to Japan.
Respectfully yours,
Joa.fin
Joseph C. Grew.
Enclosures: Memorandun of Conversation of January 11, 1936.
Copy or telegrem from Standard-Vacuum Oil
Company to the local representative, dated
January 15, 1936.
Memorandum of Conversation of January 18, 1936.
Copy of telegram to Standard-Vecuum Oil Company
from the local office, dated January 21, 1936.
863.16
ERD:r

=== Page 527 === (confidence 0.98)
No/
to 
OTES OF INTERVIEW AT FOREIGN OFFICE ON JANUARY 11. 1936
PRESENT: Mr. S. Kurusu (Chief of Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Ofrice)
Messrs. Ely (R.S.P.Co.) and Meyer(S.V.O.Co.)
Mr. Kurusu said that since he had last seen the Companies'
representatives he had been able to discuss with Mr. Yoshino the
question of guarantees. Messrs. Ely and Meyer would remember that he
had expressed to them the opinion that their companies as commercial
concerns were entitled to adequate guarantees in regard to period of
trade, volume of trade and remunerative prices: he had represented
those views to Mr. Yoshino and r. Yoshino had agreed in principle.
Furthermore, in view of the duty advantage which refiners had under
the import tariff, he had also told ..r. Yoshino that the two com-
panies should be assured that, ir they applied, they would be allowed
to refine and that as refiners they would receive equal treatment
with Japanese companies and ir. Yoshino had definitely agreed to this.
What Mr. Kurusu now wished messrs. Ely and meyer to do was to
ask their Prineipals on what terms they would continue trading under
the Petroleum Law. He would like tne companies to make a concrete
proposal, stating exactly whet guarantees they required - which he
thought would be a pretty long period, 10 or 20 years, participation
in the increase in consumption, and something in regard to remune-
rative prices. He was anxious to find a solution of the present
situation which would accomplish the Government's desire that the
Companies should continue trading in Jenan under the Law, and the
Companies' proposals would be considered by the Government in a
conciliatory spirit.
Messrs. Ely and ieyer said that they would be glad to pass on
Mr. Kurusu's request to London and New York, but they pointed out
that there were other unsetisfactory points in the Law which would
not be covered by the guarantees Mr. Kurusu had mentioned. Mr.
Kurusu intimated that the Companies were at liberty to say exactly
what they required: they had stated that for commercial reasons,
and for commercial reasons only, they could not continue trading
under the Law and he would like them to state the terms on which they
could comply. Messrs. Ely and Meyer asked if, in view of the opinion
previously expressed by Mr. Kurusu, it could be taken for granted
that the Government would set a quantitative maximum on stock-holding
obligations. Mr. Kurusu said that he had given what was only his
personal opinion, and intimated that the Companies could propose
a maximum.
Mr. Kurusu went on to suggest that the Companies' proposals
should be made through him and he asked that they might be forth-
coming as soon as possible: there was not much time to spare, as
quotas had been fixed only for the first 3 months of the year and
the Shokosho would want to be in a position some time before the
end of March to make the necessary arrangements for the remainder
of the year.
In concluding the conversation Mr. Kurusu made a brief re-
ference to his previous suggestion that the Companies should work
with Japanese interests and capital - to the effect that at present,
in view of the situation in regard to the Law, a Japanese concern
might be considered to be more advantageously placed than the two
Companies

=== Page 528 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
Companies and he had realized, therefore, that even if they
wished to make some such arrangement the Companies might not
be in a position satisfactorily to do so unless and until
they were on equal terms with Japanese: he did not wish the
impression to be given that coercion was being brought to bear
on them.

=== Page 529 === (confidence 0.96)
Encosure No 2
to despaton
No/602 019.24. 1936 f104.12
.
FROM: NEW YORK
TO: YOKOHAMA
January 15. 1936.
Referring to your telegram of Jan. l3th whole question is being
discussed by London and New York and will forward proposals as
soon as possible STOP Meanwhile you and Friends should inform
K we appreciate greatly helpful attitude adopted by Govern-
ment sToP ith regard to stockholdings think you should frankly
inform Government of our fear-s which ere now based not so
much upon expenditure-s which still would be necessitated
for erection of new tankage and carrying some additional
stock under some such modified scheme and compensation es
suggested in your telegram of Jan.l3th but almost entirely
by the thought that such legislation would certainly be
copied b: other countries and gradually spread over ell the
world - thus eventually defe&ting the very object-s of the
Japanese Government as Petroleum Industry would find it
physically impossible to carry out these stock keeping
obligations as they become obligatory in more and more count-
ries SToP We quite realize Japanese Government may be reluc-
tant to change their legislation but suggest thet you bring
out above point clearly to K and ask him if there is no way
by which our fear-s of this legislation spreading can be
overcome as in our opinion we on our side could probably meet
Japanese Government wish for some measure of extra storage
if destructive feature-s above referred to could be softened
in some way STop We of course would expect guarantee-s
regarding trede quota-s (at) reasonable price-s, period(of)
trading and no discrimination in regard to possible refining
and trading generally, all of which we understand that
Government is prepared to meet us on. SToP Suggest that you
develop

=== Page 530 === (confidence 0.96)
- 2 -
develop these points as soon as possible with K. and
telegraph us at once if anything can be done STop In
the meantime we are conferring with Friends and will com-
mence preparations complete proposals which can be finalized
as soon as we hear Government reaction to tnis cable. Friends
sending similer cable.

=== Page 531 === (confidence 0.99)
Erclosure No 3
to despaten
1926 from the
NOTES OF INTERVIEW AT FOREIGN OFFICE ON
Jan. 10. 1936
ENT: Mr. S. Kurusu (Chief of Bureau of Commercial Affairs,
Foreign Office)
Messrs Ely (R.S.P.Co.) and Meyer (S.V.O.Co.)
Messrs. Ely and Meyer said that they wished to let Mr. Kurusu
know that since their last interview with him they hed had cables
from London and New York. Their Directors wished them to thank Mr.
Kurusu for his message and to express their appreciaticn of the
spirit in which it had been sent: they were going to respond to it
as soon as possible in the same spirit and were studying the whole
question with a view to drawing up concrete proposals as suggested
by Mr. Kurusu - that is to say, on the basis of the guarantees men-
tioned by him plus, Messrs. Ely end Meyer anticipated, certain
other points including a quantitative maximum for the stock-holding
obligation.
There was however one important point which the Directors
wished Messrs. Ely and Meyer to put quite frankly before Lr. Kurusu.
Even if an arrangement on the lines he had suggested were to
materialize, they still feared that the Jenan Law, especially
the stock-holding stipulations, would almost certainly be copied
by other countries: r. Kurusu would be able to eppreciate what
this would involve from the standpoint of production alone and
that if it happened it would be physically impossible for the
Petroleum Industry to comply and eventually the object of the
Japanese Government would be defeated. This was therefore an
exceedingly important question, which in LMessrs. Ely end Meyer's
opinion must have an important bearing on the proposals which their
Directors were considering putting forvard. Could not something be
done to obviate this risk which was so clearly involved in the Law?
Mr. Kurusu said he "got the point". He could understand that
Italy, for instance, might want to bring in similar legislation and
that other countries also might follow. What the Companies evi-
dently wanted him to do was to find a formula which would avoid
the creation of a precedent, although he felt that the Japan Law
herdly constituted a precedent; France for instance had a stock-
holding obligation - but he realized that France might increase it
from three months to six if other countries did so.
Messrs. Ely and ieyer said they were glad that Mr. Kurusu
appreciated the force of the point the Directors had made and they
hoped that, notwithstanding the difficulties involved, he would be
able to do something which would remove the Companies' fear that the
stock-holding legislation would spread. The Directors had intimated
in their cables that if this could be done the Companies on their side
might be able to carry some stocks over and above normal commercial
requirements - in return of course for suitable guarantees, etc.
Mr. Kurusu remarked that Messrs. Ely and Meyer had said only
"some" extra stocks. He would see what could be done but felt it
was up to Mr. Yoshino. He therefore telephoned to the latter, advising
him of the point that had been raised, and arranged to discuss it
with him on the morning of 20th January.
