894.20211 Military Affairs. Army. Army Posts. Fortifications. Defenses. Military Instructors Advisers. ** Country In Which Serving., Military Activities Of Japan In United States Including Gathering Of Information. Espionage. Propaganda., J (File 1624)
ID: 894.20211-1624   Pages: 133   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.20211-military-affairs-army-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.95)
JTL-PC
From
Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
To
VD
JUN 23 1945
8
DCR
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
2021
State Department
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Lyon:
/6-2345
For your information, I am attaching hereto
communications which may be of interest to you.
Sincerely yours,
Ca. ahoover
Jun. 25, 1976 - FB1 2
800m
12/11178
John Edgar Hoover
Direota

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.89)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Form No. 1
THIS CABE ORIGINATEDAT VEA YITY
FHLE NO. 105-337
REPORT MADE AT
DATE WHEN MADE
PERIOD POR
REPORT MADE BY
WHICHMAD
LOS AG/LS
01-145
.2
JJHN G. GR, 
MDL
TITLE
CHARACTER OF CABE
9.1.
JXURITY MATTA - J
SYNOPSISOF FACTS
ut joot,  mist. citise, arrived Los Angoles
auoaru s dniral berle ay 2, 1945, as c1v1lian
ovacuee fron hilipine lalands. Information re-
ceived fron. -I refloating sut fect had earried 
miess deeli a with Japenese Aray and Navy and
collacoratod xith: :ien. in other ways. 'pen inter-
iew suoj ot de ted all ations set forth rolative
to :si.esa seal:  or oollnooration. advised
her destintion to  135u roadway, N York City.
ncicee no ti.
«tvile:
This inventi  tion is pr : ted u on ilormation reooived fror T-1
that su. 'eot, a civiliar evacuee fror the hilippine lslands  card the Uss
dmirel
erle,ad car od osiness dealin, with the Japanese y
and v? durin, t.e Japanese ocoupat on or the hilip; ines.
Linterviwd.rtdmirel
verle on  voyare beween lawe:i and an ,dro, alifornia, npril 27.
2.1.1 .
coordine to information recei ed from Joniidontial souro T-l Mise
LA" i". , who ie proprietor of the . . Lauritaen Company, Wanila, Philippine
islands, hac uiness aealings with t 'apanese rmy and avy durin the
Japancac oocupation of the hilip, ines and had colle orated with them in other
ways, that the rirm is reported to have advertised in the "Wanila Trioune" fer
larce  mntities of maturial for resale. T-l almo aavised that the rumors were
that tits individual's character was qestionaule.
APPROVEDAND
FORWARDED
SPECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE
DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACIES
COPIES OF THIS REPORT
5 - ureau
4 - vw Y rk (1 - G-21 1 - 1)
2 - os Angples

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.90)
L.A. .D. 105-337
Hiss LAuRITsiN advised that she was born at dessa, Hussia, and that
she was a Danish citisen, however, that she had oome to the United States when
she waa a very youn girl, althoug she did not reeell the exact date. She
tated she was the owner of the .. Lauritsen Company, Ino., whose offioes
in the United States are looated at l350 sroadway, ew York City, which was
her destinution.
She stated she last left the united States at San Franoisoo in May
of l9hl o ren merican Clipper, where she hes a factory, her other factory
being located at San ntonio, Taxas. he stated that when the Japanese oo-
oupied  anile she wes not interned because of hor Danish citizenship. ho
rasided at her own  roperty, Oj0 cloe Gonzalez, rmita, anila. She stated
that she turned her factory over to the wed Cross until ctober, 19llt, when
the Japrnese took it over and used it for a police stetion.
she said that she hed olosed hor firm just prior to the outbreak of
war and thet after the Japenese occupied nila they took the coods from her
factory but she was never peid for them. she denied ever having advertised
for property in any Manila paper. he denied fully any collaboration or
sympathy with the Jupenese.
At the time she was inturviewed,  ise LAu ITs N advised she had
with her 100.00 and 1000 hilippine pesos.
1. descri tion of this s ect is un follows:
A60:
02
!lace of birt!:
)desse, ussia
Lato of birth:
ecember 5, 1883
eight:
5°22"
ei ht:
100100.
..air:
rown
yes:
luo, wears lasses
Sitizenship:
anisi
ass ort numer:
1h0 - issued ani1e, march 20, 1940
aritel status:
idow of ATI LAU ITSEH, who died
at Manile in 1938
REFERRED  ECE RTGI
-2-

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.93)
L
CREFE
THE FOREIGN SERVICE
TA
OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
RESTRICTED
AMERICAN LEGATION
No. 12416
Bern, August 27, 1945
00/1
Subject:
Transmitting letter received from
Frederick A. Schoen.
18A
ime
2E
nc
The American Minister at Bern nas the honor
to transmit to the Department herewith an/original
letter received from one Freaerick A. Schoen, 9220
Niles Place, Aifton, Missouri, together with the
envelopes in whicn tnis communication was received
at Bern.
While it would appear that the writer may be
mentally inoalanced, it may, nevertheless, be found
desirable that the appropriate authorities conduct
an investigation regardine him.
701
Enclosure:
Letter from Frederick A.
Schoen, witn envelopes.
v e o
File No. 820.02
894.20
JKH/ig
Original and hectograph copies
to the Department
8-2745

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.88)
Empserer of Japan.
Hon fi:-
Your heavenly fother
will bless you and yous peope
for ever-moze for you youu
and your peoples igliteons
cooperation
Sincerely Youms
The 
The People of the World
Ber Fredevck. 9. Schom

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.97)
file
In repis refer to Initials
and No.
NAVY DEPARTMENT
BUY
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
CONFIDENTIAL
31 October 1945
11-9-45
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
(Attention: Mr. R. E. Carroll)
894.20211/10-3145
Subject:
Japanese Counter-Intelligence Data (#3)
In connection with the verbal request for
counter-intelligence data made by Mr. Rene E. Carroll, the
enclosed documents are forwarded herewith.
Willain C. Carr
William A. Carr
Lt. Comdr., USNR
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
NOV 2 -1945
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Room 1l4, Department of State
Washington, D.C.
Enc. (HW)
(A) List "A", Subversive Japanese Organizations in the U.S.,
dated 1 April 1943.
(B) List "B", Subversive Japanese Organizations in the U.,
dated 1 April 1943.
FILHD
CS/ A 894, 202.11
(C) Semi-Official and Subversive Japanese Firms in the U.B.,
dated 1 April 1943.
(D) Japanese Organizations in the U.S., dated 29 July 19l).
(E) Japanese Prefectural, Regional and Overseas Societies
dated 2 February 1942.
(F) ZAIBEI NIHONJIN HEIEKI GIMUSHA KAI (Society of Men
Eligible for Military Duty Living in the Americas) -
Mexican Branch, dated 16 July 1942.
(G) Case History of Takeyuki SASAKI, dated 11 December 1942.
(H) Japanese Banks in the Twelfth Naval District, dated
20 April 1944.
(I) Espionage Activities of Mitsubishi Shoji Kaisha, Ltd.,
10-3/45
dated 30 August 1943.
£s.
(J) Espionage Activities of Mitsui and Company, dated 15
January 1944.
Kaisha, dated 10 March 1944.
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.77)
fie
D'EPARTMENT OF STATE
FOREIGN ACTIVITY CORRELATION
Palitical Garhe
公
a-. platfor
t. abjcelicc,
2. per romalihe
i. obfectmics
6. personlite
C. Hestary
3. hoie geeee
a: strecsture,
6: ceinonplage
C.- p

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.95)
fill
In reply refer to Initials
and No.
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
25 October 1945
10
MEMORANDUM for Lr. Frederick B. Lyon
(Attention: Mr. R. E. Carroll)
861.20211/10-2545
Subject:
Japanese Counter-Intelligence Data (#2)
In connection with the verbal request for
counter-intelligence data made by Mr. Rene E. Carroll, the
enclosed memorandum is forwarded herewith.
The documents listed in the enclosure will
be forwarded under separete cover.
Fredrick Welden
Frederick Welden
Lt. Comdr., USVR
SEP 17 1948
FILED
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Room 114, Department of State
CS
Washington, D. C.
Enc. (HW)
(1)
Conf. memo entitled "FE 1/S Translations to be
1.5
861.20211
forwarded to State Depertment," dated 24 October 1945.
0UT 30 1945
10-2545
2
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.98)
FIDEN
MEMORANDUM FOR B-7-0 Files
24 October 1945
Subject: E 1/S Translations to bo forwarded to State
Department.
The following is a list of E translations which
are to be forwarded to Mr. R. Carroll of the Foreign Aetivity
Correlation Division, State Department.
1. THE CLASSIFICATION SISTEM OF THE JAPANESE MINISTRY OF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS ARCHIVES
2. WOMEN'S AIR DEFENSE UNITS IN JAPAN (Translation No. 13)
3. CONCERNING THE THIRD GENERAL REGULAR SESSION OF THE CENTRAL
COOPERATIVE COUNCIL (Translation No. 15)
4. ESTABLISHMENT OF PATRI TIC LABOR SOCIETIES (Translation No. 16)
5. PERFECTING AND STRENGTHENING THE MECHANISM OF THE INFORMATION
B)ARD (Translation No. 22)
6. SOUTHERN DEVELOPMENT TRAINING INSTITUTE (Translation No. 24)
7. RENOVATION AND STRENGTHENING OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATION IN
JAPAN (Translation No. 53)
8. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE TOKYO METROPOLITAN ADMINISTRATION
(Translation No. 70)
9. THE JAPANESE FOREIGN OFFICE (Translation No. 118)
10. STUDENT MOBILIZATION IN JAPAN (Translation No. 156)
11. JAPANESE POPULATION CENSUS OF1944 (Translation No. 157)
12. JAPANESE LAWS AND REGULATIONS APPLYING TO IMPERIAL HOUSEHOLD
ESTATES AND ACCOUNTS (Translation No. 169)
13. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL VOCATIONAL GUIDANCE OFFICES
(Translation No. 216)
14. JAPANESE CONTROL ASSOCIATIONS (Translation No. 225)
15. THE GREATER EAST ASIA MINISTRY (Translation No. 232)
16. JAPANESE YOUTH GROUP MOVEMENT (Translation No. 267)
17. SIMPLIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATION (Translation No. 269)
-1-
CONFIDENTIAL

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.97)
CONFLENTIAL
Continued
24 0otober 1945
Subject: E 1/S Translations to be forwarded to State
Department.
18. HOME FRONT PUBLIC SERVICE ORGANIZATION (Translation No. 272)
19. JAPANESE ARMY YOUTH TROOPS (Translation No. 280)
20. THE COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION LAW (Translation
No. 282)
21. MOBILIZATION OF STUDENTS IN JAPAN (Translation No. 286)
22. JAPANESE COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY ECONOMIC COMMITTEES
(Translation No. 287)
23. THE JAPANESE POLICE (Translation No. 291)
24. COUNCILS FOR THE REORGANIZATION OF MEDIUM AND SMALL
BUSINESSES (Translation No. 315)
25. ADMINISTRATION OF CENTRAL GOVERNMENT OFFICES (Translation
No. 326)
26. LABORERS PATRIOTIC ASSOCIATIONS (Translation No. 322)
27. THE MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS (Translation No. 331)
28. THE METROPOLITAN POLICE BOARD (Translation No. 332)
29. NAVY MINISTRY - TELEPHONE DIRECTORY (Translation No. 375)
30. JAPANESE NAVY FLAG OFFICER LIST (Translation No. 202)
31. muniahy of We fare ( nanredton # 393)
NTIAL
-2-

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.97)
In reply refer to Initials
and No.
BUY
NAVY DEPARTMENT
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF NAVAL OPERATIONS
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
DNTTAD
6 November 1945
JA-NORY
11-8.45
MEMORANDUM for Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
(Attention: Mr. R. E. Carroll)
Subject:
Jepanese Counter-Intelligence Data (#4)
894.20211/11-645
The enclosed report, dealing with Japanese
individuals who formerly resided in the United States and
who are suspected of having or known to have been engaged
in espionage and/or propaganda activities, is forwarded
herewith for your information and retention.
hilleaim O. Carr
William A. Carr
Lt. Comdr., USNR
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
CS/
Chief, Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
Room 114, Department of State
Washington, D. C.
nc. (HW)
(1) Counter-Intelligence Data on Japan, Part VII,
(Suspect Japanese Formerly Active in the U.S.),
dated 3 October 1945.
11-645

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
Eastern
DIVISION OF/EUROPEAN AFFAIRS
April 1, 1946
EE - Mr. Durbrow
Mikhail Nicholas Gor1n and Hafis Salich
894.20211/4-146
Gorin and Salich, naturalized Russian-American,
were arrested by FBI at Los Angeles on December 12,
1938, after prior clearance with State Department
concerning possible diplomatio immunity, on charge of
despatch of naval intelligenoe dooumenta relating to
Japanese espionage in the United States.
December 21, 1938 - indicated by Federal Grand Jury at
Los Angeles for violation of
federal espionage laws.
December 31, 1938 - Gorin released on $25,000 bond
posted by his wife prior to her
own later indictment (money from
Moscow State Bank to a New York
City Bank to Intourist, Ino., to
wife).
January 11, 1939 - Wife arrested - released on 1000 bond.
January 16, 1939 - Gorin and wife and Salich were
S
arraigned on espionage charges -
pled not guilty (in meantime, on
V
January 3, Federal Judge 1ssued
an order that Gorin was not to
leave the judicial district without
the Court's permission).
March 10, 1939
Salich and Gorin found guilty.
Wife not guilty. No more records
of Salich. Gorin was sentenced to
s1x years and $10, 000. While in
jail the case was carried to U.S.
12
Supreme Court, which in January 1941
(7.
upheld conviction by lower court.
2ux1
January 21, 1941 - Oumanaky called on Under Secretary
Welles to secure release for Gorin.
He offered a swap; U.S. to deport
Gorin
46
1212/71

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.99)
-2
Gorin and the Soviet Union to deport
two American citizens in jail there--
Rozkowski and Jarsky.
Missing from record - notes of decision
thi.
to release Gorin.
March 20, 1941
State Department requested Justice
Department by letter to Attorney
General to secure from the Court
the release of Gorin on probation
(for deportation), never to return
to U.s. "in view of certain important
considerations of an international
nature".
March 22, 1941
- Gorin departed for Soviet Union.
EE:OCHolder:la

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.95)
DECLAS
DAF
fre
N~O 280069
DIRECTOR
By 76/C N,  8.24.28
VICTORY
Federal Bureau of Inuestigation
Jile
BUY
DE/R
π
United States Department of Justice
Mashington, D.C.
10-7.46
Reb-Como
August 23, 1946
IN REPLY, PLEASE REFER TO
CONFIDENTIAL
FILE NUMBER—
Mr. Frederick B. Lyon
Chief
Rem- EuR
Division of Foreign Activity Correlation
xx
Department of State
Chief of Naval Intelligence
Navy Department
AUG27
Washington, D. C.
Assistant Chief of Staff, G-2
War Departiment
Washington, D. C.
Attention:
Reading Panel
894.20211/
Military Intelligence Service
Dear Sir:
For your information, I am attaching hereto a communication
which may be of interest to you.
0
1
2346
10/4/46
su
Very truly yours,
CF/HH
Ea. dhoover
Evaluation:
工
2
0
Received from reliable and
John Edgar Hoover
2
confidential source
Director
From confidential source
previously found reliable
1946
Not verified by investigation
2346
Available to Embassy in
country of origin
Attachment

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.89)
FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION
Form No. 1
THIS CASE ORIGINATED AT
 Y,  Yo.
CV FILE NO. 105-11
REPORT MADE AT
DATE WHEN MADE
PERIOD FOR
REPORT MADE BY
Clevelani, hio
7/27/46
5723 676.71
RODT. ES
/maf
7/13.11A6
TITLE
CHARACTER OF CASE
JAAN
DY
EAL SUITY - C
J in loveland has an estimated 30 members
SYNOPSIS OF FACTS:
who neot wonthly, having no regular meeting place.
It Ls said to be a left wing politically conscious
roup, tryin to work out the problens of all
minority croups and not only the problem of the
Ja anese. Reported Comunist larty mesbere have
spokon to JAcn in Cleveland.
一一
efarenoe:
aroau 11e 10-71226
Letter from reau to km York, copy to Cloveland,
dated elruary, 1946
eport of pectal Agant ILf .LY dated
May 31, 1946 at Hew York
otails:
 review of the arch, l9he issue of hevs letter,
olished by the Japunese-mricam Comittee for
Damooracy, shows, on the front paco, a photograph
of ,   and
Ir A. he photorraph also showed various
canned foods donated  the leveland Japanese-
wmorloane to help feed the hids uvd Sumtlies of
 workers on strlke".
APPROVED AND
FORWARDED
SFECIAL AGENT
IN CHARGE
DO NOT WRITE IN THESE SPACES
COPIES CF THIS REPORT
ree
2 - Now York
3 - Cleveland

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.93)
CV F.O.
105-11
A review of the Cleveland indices reveals that  E. STsVEusON is
a ro orted Commmist Party sympathizer and that JOE KES, Business Agent of
Local 735, UAl, is a reported Commniet Farty momber. The artiele undermeath
the photograph indicates IlM ASAZAliA to be JACn Chairman and also a undon
ahop steward.
The article goas on to state that on February 1, 1946, JACD held
an oducational meeting, at which points of issue in the current country ride
Labor strikes were thoroughly probed. LiO FEisTEt, Chairman of the Cleveland
Auto Council, C10, Local 45, and A O) (CoDlAN, Personnel Director for the
National meltiny Compary, ware principal speakers.
A review of the Cleveland indioes reflected that both 0 FEnste
and u D Dan are reported UP mmbers.
Also contained in the article reporting an the JACD in Cleveland
is a para raph wherein it is stated that Dr. mrlD . WITaN, Direetor of
the Council on orld Affairs and associate prafessor of Political Scienee at
Western tesorve univarsity, was to apeak before the roup on April 5, 1946.
Dr. erao wF, 92? ociety for savin Building, addvised thet
he did spoak bafore this club on April 3, 1946, the topic dealing genmrally
with the roblems in the Far Tast. Hs said he was asked to make this talk
by the :resident of JACD, whose name he did not kmow. le did not know aay
of the names of the individuals to whom he apake and background information
concernin: the organization itself was unknom to him.
Ro said he guthered from tallking to some of those present, the
roup beiny vary small, that they had no regular meeting place and that what
meetin's they did have wore held in the various mambars' homes. le was
unable to ive any information concerniny the group other than to say that
it was wnusunlly alert axd that the manbers appeared to have very liberal
political viems.
Captain FRDERICK CFrrs, in charge of alitary Intelligence
in Clevelan), was umable to supply any information conoorniny JACD, nover
having heard of the organisation. io suggested the writer soe, and wont
with the writer to seo, Lieutenant CokGs SYhi who is in charge of Racial
Relations at the Cleveland rolico Department.
Lieutenant Yi had likewise never neard of JAcD, suggesting that
the ar telocation Joard be contacted. It had previously been ascertained
that the Mar Relocation Board is no longer situated in Cleveland.
Cont'idential Informant Cl-25, whose identity is known to the Bureau,
was interviewed by Special Agent Dn .  and this informant advised
2

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.93)
CV F.O.
105-11
that she had never heard of JAc). Upon subeequently being interviemed by
Special Agent ), Cl-25 had ascertained that J0 was a mal1 group ar
Japanese who held neetings in their om hones. ho was unable to give any
additional information other than to supply a mimeographed publioation
entitled "Ths Kaleidoscope", which doals with Japanese activities in the
Clevalaxi area.
A reviow of The Kaloidoscope, it boiny: the Jume, 1946 isgue, reveals
that it contains any and all information whiah vould be of interest to the
Japanese. It shows those Japanese who had raduated from high school, rafers
to social funotions, gives gossip about various Japanese and contains infor-
mation concernin: activities of various Japanese organisations.
This issue of The Kaleidoscope containo a smnll paragraph pertain-
ing to JAc, statin that the Cleveland chapter  JacD held a mumer dance
at Cleveland ollege Auditorium. aster of Ceranonies was NotI TAsllIlA. 
Other Japanose active in the antertainment at this summer dance were Miss
LUURATA,  KITALARA and r. and rs. ITS TANYI,Who ware chaperons.
Also appearing in The Kaleidosoopo was the following:
"my  A, active in the Ja0, chouldered his bandana pack" and is n
his way to onolulu.
"The ac will be shy of its two workingest club membars in the couplo of
Al an  NIlI Who have Left to serve the Jovernment service in Tokyo."
This isoue of the Kaleidoscope shows that   OatA is Eusiness
Managor, an also that it is published y the Coortinatiny Coumeil of Clove
land at 1o1 uron oad, Cleveland, hio.
 a, 63ll exington Aveme, Cleveland, wan interviewed
under the pretense of obtaining ceneral information  xrtaining to all of the
Japanose organizations and functione in the Cleveland area. After obtaining
information pertaininy to varioue social clubs, he mentioned the J and
volunteoral the followin information partaining to it.
o said What it io sinilar to Japanese-smerican Citizens League,
but more llberal. Ho sald tho Ja is the opposite to reactionary, it being
"left wing" but "not too loft". He said it is a politioally conscious
roup tayin, to work out the probloms of all minority roups and not only
the probleme of the Japanese. lle said it is one of the aims of the organisa-
tion to be able to work with other minority croups.
WTA advised that JAo formerly met every other Priday, but that
it now only meets once per month, one meeting being a business meetiny and
-3

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.91)
CV F.O.
105-11
the nert meeting being an ectusational mesting. Thase are the only two types
of mestings wnion the organisation hes. He advised that JACD has no ragaler
mesting placs, frequently meeting at the members' homes and somstimes mesting
at the Yugoslay Relief Committee ieadquarters in the Fublie Square Building,
Cleveland.
ATA cstimated that there are about 2300 Japanese in the Cleve-
land area at the resant time and that about 30 of these aro mmmbers of the
JACD.
lic advised that the officers of the organization presently are
MD: A AA - Chein 
GRORGE CHATA - Treasurer
AY MIYAGAA - Recording Searetary
. YUKI KATAYAA, Corresponding Sesretary
ith respect to the officers of the organization, it is noted, as
per referenced letter from the Burenu to the New York office dated Felruary 4.
1946, that the temparary officers, as of August 29, 1945, were
rs. ANl TANI - Chai
AMY BYAA - Secretary
 ASAAA- T
re. Y TAYAA - Ns Ler reporter.
. review of tie information available in the Clevelaxd ixlices per
tainin to JAcD and to some of its prominent members is as followe:
in November 15, 1945 a strictly confidential souree advised that
there was a postal sized card at the Communtt Party Headquarters, Cleveland,
statin that CY e ILLA. author of "Brothers inder the Skin" and
"rejudice" was to speak on November 19, 1945 on the subject, "Amerioa's
ace ro lom - ractical olution". mimeographed flier obtained by
this sume souroe shoved that the above raferred to meeting was under the
sponsorship of the Japanese-merican Comittee for Jemocrecy.
n ebruary 28, 1946 3L-901, whose identity ds knomm to the Dureau,
advised that Y faa arranged for  I DavDm Seoretary of the CP for
uyaho County, to speak at a Japanese- merioan youth group meeting on the
question of dmmooraay in Japan, ahe kmowing him at tho time to be County
Scoretary of the Commnist arty.
confidential Lnuformant Ci-915 advises that Ay Slta has pariodical
contaots with RAln. meul (reported CP mpmber and known to be hio State
xecutive  ecretary of the American Youth for Demooraoy).

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.90)
CV F.O.
105-11
On July 28, 1946 Ci-901 aivised that an unknoan woman and MIkE
AVI) talked about the possibility of starting a Japanese Club in Clove
land inasuch as tiore were a couple of thousand Japanese in Cleveland, some
of whon were sympathetie to the Party.
CI901 av1sed that on me 5, 1945 T.KHI HA0A, Treamurer of
J in ow York City, had a discussion with ANoD Joinsou. HadA mentioned
th t N Hos was appealing to the Japanese and that "we have to ween
tho to our side". eA suggested that the comrades could see that the Japs
took their place in the umions.
 o iresidant of the r, tato of hio, advised Ha
that the Comamist rarty in hio ha made no actual contact with the Japanese,
iut has insisted on no disorimination in unione whenever incidents developed
rogardin tho employmant of Japanese in Clovelarxd war plants. Johno!
mentioned one Jupanese wonan (whon 901 ascertained to be AN IfANI)
who sponis "in terms of trade unionists", lut that the Communist Party does
not know i she is "with or foroes in C liformia or not".
MA ave Jo the nam of N, 1lo Fonm College, Cleve
land, as a posslble Conmmist arty contact axd also the name of Iko EnanA,
1036 aet 87 trent. wa sald tht  woul be the artye best
contact in Cleveland.
一1N010

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.97)
ADPREAS OPFIGIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SECRETAÑY OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
File Number: SF-2-2-23
WASHINGTON
SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION
June 4th, 1947
SPECIAL PROIECTS
DIVISION
To
: SPD - Mr. Hibbard
47
From
: SPD - K. Okami, Former Japahasd EmbaSsy 1A"
Custody of the Dept. of State.
Subject : Documents found in the San Francisco files
pertaining to un-American Activities.
The case of David Warren Ryder, 447 Sutter St.,
Filos
Central
San Francisco, California.
Cocument Must Be Returned To
It is rather peculiar that the name, David Warren
89
Ryder often appears in various Japanese official
account books in the files of the Former Japanese
4
consulates in the U.S., mostly marked"Secret or
Confidential".
20
While checking through the San Francisco files, I
2
found some documentary evidence of Ryder's connection
with the Japanese Government.
Japanese consulate in San Francisco to be the organizer
of a Japanese propaganda agency called"American Com- 4
mittee on Far Eastern Affairs" which disseminated Jap.4
propaganda through press and other means of publication
radio, motion pictures and educational institutions.
In the early stages of these propaganda campaigns, Ryder
organized and laid out various plans for the consulate,
specifying all the expenses needed to carry out different
types of activities, with his suggestions as to how these
campaigns should be carried out.
It is rather astonishing to know that this sort of agency
was operating openly on such a large scale with the
ulterior motives of spreading Japanese propaganda. some
of the plans even called for a yearly budget of $500,000.
u
It is clear that Ryder was one of the most active agen
DC/R
for the Japanese Government in the field of propaganda
74.2021
Therefore, it may be interesting from the standpoint 
Anal---4--
investigation to find out whether or not he was a regtst-
ered agent for the Japanese Government.
Rev
Cat.
See next page
File
Aカ
h

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
ADDRISS OFFICIAL COMMUNSCATIONS TO
THE SEÇRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTÖN 25, D. C
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION
At the outbreak of the war, quite a few American citizens
were arrested and convicted on the charge of willful negli-
gence for not having been registered as foreign government
employees with the U.S. authorities concerned. If I remem-
ber correctly, Ralph Townsend who was recently tried on the
charge of treason was one of them. My impression is that
Townsend and Ryder were working closely together in these
propaganda campaigns for the Japanese Government.
I have also found in the same file many copies of Townsend's
radio speaches which were broadcasted over KYA Satation in
San Francisco. Therefore, if you are interested in obtain-
ing these copies, I will be glad to submit them to you.
The documents submited herewith are as follows:
1.
Educational Campaign (Special Plan)
YearlyBudget: 500,000.
2.
Personal Services (of David Warren Ryder) will include
half of my time, and will cover:
3。
Outline of Career and experience of David Warren Ryder
by David Wareen Ryder, 447 Sutter St. San Francisco,
California.
4.
A letter to Mr. Roy Howard, 230 Park Ave. New York City
(President of Scripps Howard Paper).
5. Report of lecture Tour: by Alfred Katz.
6.
Supplemental Memorandum concerning Special Campaign
of Education(Political only)
7。
Rough Outline of Proposals concerning the Improvement
of American-Japanese Relations.(David Warren Ryder)
8.
Rough Outline of Proposals regarding Newspapers,
Magazines, Business and Trade Publications. (David W.
Ryder)
9.
Outline of Educational Campaigns: Numbers: 1. 2. 3.
and 4.
10. Suggestions for Radio Campaigns
Un-American Activities
(2)
From K. Okami to Mr. Hibbard
See next page

=== Page 22 === (confidence 0.99)
ADDRESS OPFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE BECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION
11. Memorandum to Mr. Takahashi: Subject: Highlights of
Pamphlet Campaign.
12. Memorandum by David Warren Ryder:
(Careful and unostentatious methods to carry out
propaganda)
Un-American Activities
(3)
From K. Okami to Mr. Hibbard

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY---
F1le Number: SF-2-2-23
SPECIAL PROJEOTS DIVISION
June 4th, 1947
To
: SPD - Mr. Hibbard
From
: SPD - K. Okami, Pormer Japanese Embassy in
Custody of the Dept. of State.
Subject : Doouments found in the San Franoisco files
pertaining to un-American Activities.
The case of David Warren Ryder, 447 Sutter St.,
San Franoisco, California.
It is rather peculiar that the name, David Warren
Ryder often appears in various Japanese official
account books in the files of the Pormer Japanese
consulates in the U.S., mostly marked"Seoret or
Conridential".
While aheoking through the San Franoisco files, I
found some documentary evidence of Ryder's connection
with the Japanese Government.
As these documents indicate, he was appointed by the
Japanese consulate in San Francisco to be the organiser
of a Japanese propaganda agenoy called" American Com-
mittee on Far Eastern Affairs" whieh disseminated Jap.
propagande through press and ather means of publication,
radio, motion pictures and eduoational institutions.
In the early stages of these propaganda campaigns, Ryder
organised and laid out various plans for the consulate,
speoifying all the expenses needed to carry cut different
types of activities, with his suggestions as to how these
campaigns should be carried out.
It is rather astonishing to know that this sort of agenoy
was operating openly on suah a large scale with the
ulterior motives of spreading Japanese propaganda. some
of the plans oven called for a yearly budget of $500,000.
It is clear that Ryder was ono of the most aotive agents
for the Japanese Government in the field of propaganda.
Therefore, it may be interesting from the standpoint of
investigation to find ous whether or not he wms a regist
ered agent for the Japanese Government.

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.98)
SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION
11. Momorandum to Mr. Takahashi: Subjoot: Highlights of
Pamphlet Campaign.
12. Memorandum by David Warren Ryder:
(Careful and unostentatious methods to carry out
propaganda)
Un-Amerioan Aotivities
(3)
Prom K. Okami to Mr. Hibbard

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
SPECIAL PROJECTS DIVISION
At the outbreak of the war, quite a few American oitisens
were arrested and convicted on the charge of willful negli-
gence for not having been registered as roreign govermment
omployees with the U.S. authorities concerned. Ir I remsm-
ber correctly, Ralph Tounsend who was recently tried om the
charge of treason was one of them. My impression is that
Towmsend and Ryder were working closely together in these
propagande campaigns for the Japanese Government.
I have also found in the same file many copies of Townsend's
radio speaches which wore broadoasted over KYA Satation in
San Franoisco. Therefore, if you are interested in obtain-
ing these copies, I will be glad to submit them to you.
The doouments submited herewith are as follows:
1. Educational Campaign (Special Plan)
Yearly Budgot: 500,000.
2.
Personal Services (of David Warren Ryder) will inolude
half of my time, and will cover:
3。
Outline of Carear and experience of David Warren Ryder
by David Wareen Ryder, 447 Sutter St. San Franoisco,
California.
A letter to lr. Roy Howard, 230 mmrk Ave. New York City
(President of Scripps Noward Paper).
5. Roport of looture Tour: by Alfred Kats.
6. Supplemontal Momorandum concerning Special Campaign
of Education(Political only)
7. Rough Outline of Proposals concerning the Improvement
of American-Japanese Relations.(David Warren Ryder)
8.
Rough Outline of Proposals regerding Newspapers,
Magazines, Business and Trade Publications. (David W.
Ryder)
Outline of Eduoational Campaigna: Numbera: 1. 2. 3.
and 4.
10. Suggestions for Radio Campaigne
(2)
Un-American Activities
From K. Okami to Mr. Hibbard

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.99)
EDUCATIONALCAMPAIGN
SPECIAL PLAN
Yearly Budget:
500,000
Hereunder is an Outline, Cost Estimate, and Explan-
ation of a SPECIAL PLAN for an Educational Campaign to be con-
fined to the Pacific Coast--primarily to California, Oregon and
Washington--with headquarters in San Francisco.
OUTLINE:
This SPECIAL PLAN embraces the following progremme:
1. The NE S BURMAU, which will publish and distribute:
A. The "eekly Bulletin or Clip Sheet
2. NE SPAPER AND MAGAZINE CAMPA IGN--Articles, stories, features,
items, interviews, photos etc., to appear in:
A. Daily and weekly newspapers
B. General Magazines
C. Business and trede publications
D. Religious publications
E. Fraternal and miscellaneous publications
MOrION  ICTURF CAMPA IGN--Comprising the making and showing
of industrial films of an educational character to:
A. Business and Trade Clubs
B. Luncheon Clubs
C. Women's Clubs
D. Lodges
Church and Social Clubs
F. Colleges and schools

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
G. Family groups
4. LECTURE CAMPAIGN--Comprising the establishment of a Leoture
Bureau to provide lectures before the groups named in Item #3.
PAMPHLET CAMPA IGN--Comprising the preparation, publioation and
distribution of two pamphlets a month to 100,000 recipients.
6. RADIo CAMPAIGN--Comprising the building of programmes for 52
weekly boradcasts of one-half hour over a Pacific Coast hook-up.
EST IMATED COST:
1. GENERAL AND OFFICE EXPENSE:
A. Headquarters (Rent)..
$2,400
B. General Expense:
1. Salary of Director..
25,000
2. Salaries of 3 Assistants
to Directors ? $6,000.......... 18,000
Trevelling and Extra-
ordinary Expense......
8.500
51,500
C. Personnel:
Secy. to Director.......
3,000
Auditor & Bookkeeper....
3,600
1 Stenog. $150.
1,800
2 Stenog. 100.
2,400
Addressograph Operator.
1,500
Duplicator Operator.....
1,500
4 Ma1ling Clerks @$1,200.
4,800
Office Boy & Messenger.
900
19,500
D. Furniture, Equipment & Supplies:
Furniture.
2,500
Equipment:
4 typewriters
$500
1 Duplicator.
325
1 Addressograph.
525
Filing cabinets.
400
1,750

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.98)
3.
Stationery & Supplies
2,000
General Postage.
1,500
Telophone and Telegraph.
1,200
Miscellaneous....
1,200
E. NEWS BUREAU
eekly Clip Sheet or Bulletin:
$19,500
13,100
mailing.
8,000
Envelopes
1.200
41,800
2. NEWSPAPER AND MAGAZINE CAMPA IGN:
Approximate estimated costs:
News papers....
$12,500
Magazines
10,000
Other publications
5.000
27,500
3. MOTION PICTURE CAMPAIGN:
4 Master Films
24,000
100 Copies
15,000
Projection expense...
15.000
54,000
4. LECTURE CAMPAIGN:
10 lecturers (salary) ......
30,000
10 lectures (expenses)
20.000
50,000
5. PAMPHLET CAMPAIGN:
Printing (200,000
monthly pamphlets).
72,000
Postage...
48,000
Mailing.
21,600
Envelopes
14,400
le iling Lists
5,000
161,000
6. RADIO CAMPAIGN: (52 weekly boradoasts of
one-half hour over a Pac-
ific Coast hook-up.)
Time on the Air.
63,500
Radio talent
18,500
82.000
Grend total
499.850
(NOTE: A number of items can only be estimated. Figures are,

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.98)
4。
therefore, approximate. Some items may cost less, some more:
but it is believed that in the aggregate they will not exeeed
the grand total specified.)
EXPLANATION:
1. NEWS BUREAU==
Under the News Bureeu comes the Weekly Clip Sheet or
Bulletin. This would be printed and go out weekly to approximately
10,000 newspapers, magazines, trade and business publications,
chembers of commerce, trade associations, clubs, important in-
dividuals and other recipients. It would go out by first class mail.
The Clip sheet can be made a very effective medium. It
must be informative, not argumentative, and the information in it
must be interesting and timely, as well as accurate. The information
in it must be so interesting and timely that the recipients will
accept it for that reeson, and so accurato that they will come to
rely upon it.
There never is any way of telling in advance how much
of this material the newspapers and other publications will use.
At firat, they are likely to be cautious; but as they grow accustomed
to its regular appearance, and observe that it contains interesting
and authentic information, uhey will use it increasingly. (A
check I made several years ago in my steamship work, showed that
during a single year the newspapers used enough of what I sent
them to fill space that at regular advertising rates would have
cost $67,890, and the total cost to us was only 5876.35. Not
only that, but we obtained apace and position which could not
have been bought at any price as advertising.) The Federal Housing
Administration reports that it has had excellent results from its
Clip Sheet, and I know that severel universit1es have had similar
good results. The main thing is to make and keep it interestingly
informative and indisputably accurate. Thus operated, it is bound
to grow in acceptability and influence.
2. NESPAPER AND LAGAZINE CAMPA IGN:
You will understand, of course, that, under the cir-
oumstences, it is altogether impossible to tell in advance how
many articles can be placed and where. This character of work
requires much tact and discretion, as well as a great deel of
negotiating, personal discussion, etc. lowever, as  result of
past experienoe in this sort of work, I believe it is possible
to place articles or series of articles in such newspapers as the
Hearst papers, Soripps-Howard papers, New York Times and Tribume;
Baltimore Sun; Springfield Republican; Chicago Tribune; Boston
Transoript; Philadelphie ublic Ledger; and the leading papers in
Pittsburgh, St. Louis, Denver, Kenses City, Cleveland, Cincinatti,
Milwaukee, Detroit, St. Paul, Minneepolis, Hartford, Providence,
Richmond, Atlanta, New rleens; end in approximately l00 papers
of lesser importance. Also in the leading Catholic publications.

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.98)
5.
As for the magazines, I believe that if the matter is
properly handled, in time articles can be placed in such leading
magazines as Harpers, Soribners, Atlantic Monthly, Forum, American
Meroury, Foreign Affairs, Yale Review, Saturday Evening Post,
Colliers, Liberty, Esquire, Asia, Survey Graphic, Fortune, New
Republic, Nation, Common Sonse, Readers Digest, and a number of
magazines less well known but having large ciroulations, such
as American Legion Monthly, Elks Magazine, the Rotarian; and
various Catholic magazines. I have written for many of these
publications, and would first of all call on the editors in person--
to renew my acqueintance with the old ones and to get acquainted
with the new ones.
3. MOT ION PICTURE CN A IGN:
The Industrial or Eduoational Film has proved to be 
splendid eduoational medium. Coming in the form of entertainment.
1t obtains a willing and attentive audience. Under this SPECIAL
PLAN it is proposed to make four Master Films of suitable and
separate subjects. From these, 25 copies apiece would be made--
lo0 copies in all. The e would be shown widely throughout the
territory--to Businesa and Trade organizations, Luncheon Clubs,
Women's Clubs, Lodges, Church and Social Cluba, Colleges, Schools
and Family circles. Loreover, copies would be placed with the
Visual Education departments of Universities, with the YMCA and
other organizations which operate "film libraries." Having handled
the making and showing of several such films, I know from ex-
perience how very effective they are. In the course of a year,
if these films are properly pushed, they will be seen by many
thousands of people, in audiences ranging from 75 to 500 people.
4. LECTURE CANPAIGN:
The American people flock to lectures. Therefore, good
lecturers and lectures are always in demand--at meetings of
Business and Trade Associations, Luncheon Clubs, Woments Clubs
Church and Social Clubs, Professional Groups, High School assemplies
University forums, and many other groucs ano associstions.  Virtually
"Entertainment Committee", whose job it is to secure enterteinment
of some yind--a lecture, film, musicel number, ete. ctc.,-
for the various meetings of their respective orgenizetions. With
so many such orgsnizotions, neetin so frequently, the demand for
interesting lectures is elwoys greater then the supply--particularly
since many of these orgenizations can not afferd to pay for
enterteinment. It will not be difficuly to eep the number of
lecturers I have sug eated busy--full time.
5. PA PHLET CAMP/ IGN:
I regard this as of great importance and merit. America
is rapidly becoming "pamphlet conscious," and the success of The
Readers Digest indicetes the interest of people in pamphlet
reading matter--something not too long; something they can s tick

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.98)
6.
in their pookets without making a big bulge, and reed on the boat
or train or bus or street car.
This SPEC IAL PLAN proposes to issue 2 pamphlots a month,
to be distributea to 100,000 recipients--a list of 100,000 mon and
women in the territory covered (aminly California, Oregon and
Washington); such lists to be composed of the most important
groups in this territory, and to include, of course, those that
we now have alrendy compiled.
6. R DIO CMAIGN:
As educator as well as entertainer, Radio has been
forging ehead until it now occupies a high place as a medium
for reachinp and influencing uhe public.
with Radio, as vith other nethode of education, the
effect comes cumulatively; it is geined by regular consistent
repetition. Accordingly, the STCIAL PIAN calls for a full year's
campaign--52 weekly troadcasts of a half-hour over e pacific Coast
notwork. The Broadcasts would be first-rete enterteinment. Suffi-
cient talent would be employed to make hem eppealing to the
public; end they would be built around the idee of getting the
listener's ear throurh entertsinment eppeel, end uhen interspersing
the proper emount of intormation.
Radio programmes must, of course, be free from objection-
able propecande, since Radio is under strict control or the Federal
Communications Comission. Conse uently, the programmes would
be built unon the INI IR CT AP: ROACH, and so repared as to meet
the conditlons imposed by the Commission, and yet be anpealing
and effeotive.
The precise nature of the weekly broadcasts can not be
foretold. But after she first few programmes, it will be possible
to ascert in their "listener appe 1," and they can be shaped
thereaftor accordingly.
Altogether, this SPuC IAL PIAN seems to offer a com-
prehensive and well-rounded programne; one designed to reach and
Influence all types and classes of people; and is sufficiently
flexible so that it con be sltored quickly to meet changing
conditions.

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
March 29, 1938
Mr. Roy W. Howard
230 Park Avenue
Now York City
Dear Mr. Howard:
Thank you for your courteous and very interesting letter of Feb. 28.
It was good of you to take the trouble to explain your position
and viowpoint so fully to one who has no more claims upon Scripps-
Howard than those of being an old admirer, a long-time subscriber,
and an occasional contributor to one of its large family of papers.
(I was, if I may be permitted to say so, one of those who was
"plugging" for the San Francisco News when its hands were still
calloused and it still walked with a bit of the lumbering gait of
Caliban; when 1ts back was still bent under the accusation of
being the laboring man's newspaper, and when it was still called,
by some of the Nob Hill-ites, "The Dirty News". I mention this
merely to assure yoh again that I did not and do not write from
the standpoint of a captious newcomer to the Scripps-Howard
cirole, but rather as a cordial old friend who, if he sees anything
worth complaining about, sees it with an eye half closed by friendly
indulgence, and upbraids--if at all--in the manner of a father
admonishing his favourite son.
I did not, of course, mean to suggest that those at the head
of a capitalistic enterprise which has grown to such proportions
as Soripps-Howard, would consciously give aid and comfort to an
ideology or system which has for its chief immediate objective the
overthrow of the system out of which that enterprise was born and
in which it flourishes. What I meant to suggest was that quite
unconsciously and unwittingly the Scripps-Howard publications
--by denigrating Japan--were pouring water on the wheel of Soviet
Russia's cyrrent effort to persuade Americans that it is America's
duty and to America's advantage to fight Russia's battle against
Japan. I had believed that I had detected in the Scripps-Howard
handling of the situation in China the idea that this was purely
a Sino-Japanese conflict, and I wanted to register my surprise that
a press service so astute as Scripps-Howard could take this myopic
viow. Also it pained me to find my favourite newspaper lending
a voice of enoouragment to those intransigeant internationalists
who believe America. should not venture to the toilet without first
securing international consent, and who can never see the forest
of problems on their own doorsteps for looking at the problem-
laden trees of far distant Europe or Asia. I remembered that
Scripps-Howard had seen in the election of Roosevelt in 1932--as
I had-- the beginning of an honest effort to solve America's most

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page two
Maroh 29, 1938
prossing problem-that of finding a way to create and distributo
onough purchasing power to enable our people to consume what they
can produce; and it pained me to observe what I feared was Scripps-
Howard's willingness to fall in with the Administration's recent
adoptjon of the shabby old trick of summoning the people to unite
against mythical enemies from without in order to mask its tragio
failure to rout the real enemies from within.
Nor was I speak ing from an ivory tower. Everywhere I went in
this region I found men of discernment saying the same thing--
not only that the Administration was pumping up a war-scare to
distract attention from the mess it had made of domestic affairs,
but that the newspapers--including yours-- were wittingly or un-
wittingly helping this along. I could understand--we all could
understand--how a good many newspapers would do such e thing, but
we could not understand how yours could.
Your letter goes far toward making an understanding of your position
possible. It is ot difficult to understand how one who had
honestly surrendered to the Utopean idea that we were living "in
a different day and under a different prevailing world psyohology,
n
than when America resorted to acgression, should be so deeply
moved by events negating that ideg as to grow indignant with the
instigators of those events and quite unintentionally and un-
consclously permit that indignatior to find its way into the
formulation of an editorial policy. With the utmost respect for
you and your idealism, I solicit peraission to say that there is
nothin more difficult for anyonc to do than for an idealist to
accept without manifest cankerous indignation the realization that
he has been fooling himself, and to refrain from venting his spleen
upon whatever or whoever furnishos the basis for this realization.
I hasten to say that I think this is perfectly human dnd perfectly
understandable; but I submit, with the utmost respect, that it
doesnot make for objective reporting. It was the cancer which
ate away President Wilson's objectivity and directly caused the
tragedy which enveloped his last year in the Presideney. The collapse
of the magnificent house of cards which he had built out of the
1dealistic conception that "the war to ond war" had ushered in a
"different day" and created a "different prevailing world psychology,"
was too much for him; a blow from which he never recovered.
Unfortunately it did not stop there. It was a blow to as much of
the whole world as had fallen in with his fantasy; and I cannot
but think that much of the trouble in which the world since has
found itself, accrued of the Wilson-inspired attempt to fly directly
in the face of e stern roality es old as the human race and as
formidable as the human will to self-preservation. I cannot but
believe that if realists and not idealist& had written the treaty
of Versailles there would not have issued out of its fecond womb
the events and conditions which with increasing crescendo have

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page Three
March 29, 1938
perturbed and tortured Europe (and the world) for the past decade;
nor have appeared the necessity for such grandiose ventures iuto
absurdity as the so-calld Kellog Pact. As one lie makes successive
lies necessary; so the treaty of Versailles generated a congeries
of miscellanebus treaties, accords, agreements, pacts, etc., all
of which, to a greater or less degree, sought, by simply deolaring
so, to make black white, and thus to fend and brace and bolster
the original iniquity of Versallies.
Out of Versailles were hatched the events and conditions which
generated Hitler, and which induced the Berlin-Rome axis and all
that it, in turn, has produced. How anyone who had ever read
history, or who has even a gout of the sense of reality in him
could have expected the Treaty of Versailles to have resulted
otherwise; or conld have expected the League of Nations, hamstrung
by such a treaty, to have succeeded, has always amazed me.
After a long study of the events preceding the so-called Mukden
incident-- reading all that is available in English on both sides,
I do not believe it is susceptible of the very short and simplo
interpretation you put upon it. And I believe you might come to
the same conclusion if you had road and pondered (1) John Bassett
Moore's letter of March 27, 1933 to the House Foriegn Affairs
Committee (Hearings before the House Committee on Foreign Affairs--
H.J. Res.93.pp 14-17); and (2) "An Appeal to Reason," and art1clo
by Judge Moore in Foreign Affairs for July 1933.
Most convincingly.
it seems to me, does Judge Moore argue against
that over-
simplification and artful arrogance which drawe a
line and says: "All on this side is white, all on the other black".
Particularly would I wommend to you as worthy of consideration
his statement concerning the difficulty of determining the "aggressor"
in a conflict. Said he:
"Before committing ourselves to this presumptuous programme, spun
of the wild and filmsy fantasy that,when nations fall out and
fight, the quostion of the 'Aggressor', which still baffles students
even of encient wars, lies unor the surface of things, and may
be readily, safely and justly determined by outsiders--of whose
freedom from individual interest or bias there is no guarantee--
we should reflect upon the fact that, had such a notion heretofore
prevailed, we might and in all probability should ourselves have
been the victin of it."
Judge Moore then points out thet "our war for independence was
treated by the great majority of powers merely as an act of rebellion
against lawful authority. We waged the war of 18l2 in support
of disputed claims of national right. Many of our own people,
including General Grant, have condemned our wer with Mexico as
an unjust aggression; but I am not aware that any of them has taken
the ground that the general interest or the cause of peace would
have been advanced if the powers of the world, some of which were

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Rey W. Howard
Pagefour
March 29, 1938
not, then, themselves above suspicion, had combined their forces
to oppose or to crush us."
Judge Moore next addresses himself to a discussion of the popular
acceptance of the idea of "Humanity's Rebirth." "Nothing," says
he, "could more convincingly betray the fustian character of tho
new psychology and will to peace than the circumstances that among
its postulates there is not one which is not contrary to palpablo
realitles, to the teachings of history and to the formulation,
in universal legal principles, of the results off all human experience."
Now, with all due deference and rospect, it seans to me that the
truth of the just-quoted words of Judge Moore is so apparent that
men as astute as are the heads of Scripps-Howards should long sinco
have rejected "the assmmption that the world was entering into a
new era on which the principle of collective security could be
substituted for the vicious balance of power principle." What
was there, may I ask, beyond pious words, to warrant such an
assumption? Indeud, what had there ever heen to warrant the
fantastic assumption that the members of the League of Nations
would or could divest themselves of their individual interests
and propossessions, of their historic and instinctive antagonisms,
and altruistically unite in enforcing the ideal of imperial justice?
By the same token, what, may I ask, was there to warrant the
assumption that the so-called Kellog-Briand Paot really would
achieve anything; in view of the fact that before it was accepted
by Great Britain she attached to it so many qualifications as to
render it virtually meaningless? You are familiar, of course,
with Great Britain's note of may 19, 1928, in which, after quoting
she declareu that there were "certain regions of the world the wel-
fare and integrity of which" constituted " a special and vital
interest" for Great Britain's "peace and safety," and that, as
their protection against attackwas "a measure of self-defense,"
no "interference" with them could be "suffered."
The regions, if you will recall, were not named; thus reserving
complete liberty as to their designation. And then, in order
effectually to preclude any subsequent challenge or quibble, there
was added this unequivocal condi tion:
"It must be clearly understood that His Majesty's Govvernment
in Great Britain accept the new treaty upon the distinct under-
standing that it does not prejudice their freedom of ection in
this respect."
As a matter of fact, as you again will no doubt recall, the way
for this hamstringing condition had been thoughtfully paved by
Mr. Kellog himself in a public address three weeks before, in
which he declared that nothing in the proposed treaty in any way

=== Page 36 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page five
March 29, 1938
restricted or impaired "the right of self-defense;" that this right
was "inherent in every sovereign state" and "implicit in every
treaty;" and that each nation "alone is competent to decide whether
circumstances require recourse to war in self-defense."
With some little knowledge of the latitude with which the courts
have construed "self-defonse" as applying to the transactions
of individuals, I have always wondered how we could expect any
narrower interpretation of the term when it was invoked by nations.
Consequently, in all sincerity, I should like to ask if you honestly
expected that nations would refrain from employing this flexible
provision to exouse whatever acts they deemed necessary to their
national welfare?
I heve never considered myself unduly cynical, but I recall remark-
ing at the time that this provision made the Kellog Pact a farce;
that the first nation which found it necessary from its standpoint
to go contrary to the pact, would plead self-defense and stand on
1ts acknowledged right to be the sole judge of what constituted
self-dofense. In this connection I invite your attention to a
recent utterance of Professor Edwin M. Borchard, of Yale University.
Speaking to America's Town Meeting of the Air, November 4, 1937,
Professor Borchard said:
"The idea that by intervening in foreign wars you can
improve your own country or the world was born only
after 19l4. The orgy of destruction which then began
did serious things to the minds of men. Reason took
a long vacation, which isn't over yet. Instead, organized
coercion and a threat of hostilities were invented as
a contrivance to perpetuate the status guo. .
"The European world was not brought to its present
pass by nature or accident. What we see before us
is the cumulative effect of twenty years of extraordinary
mismanagement of human affairs. What we see in Asia
is the result of decades of political restlessness.
growing out of deepseated causes which dofy regimentation
within the framework of any legal document, however
divinely inspired. History does not evolve from
covenants. The biological, psychological, demographic
and social forces which move masses of people cannot be
controlled by such instruments as the Covenant of the
League of Nations, the Kellog-Briand Pact, or even the
Nine-Power Treaty. To assume that they can, is to
misunderstand the world we live in. ......
"It seems strange that a twentieth century world should
have misread history so profoundly as to suppose that
the poli tital arrangement of l9l9 could be crystallized.
A system was set up at Versailles by which any revolter

=== Page 37 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page six
March 29, 1938
against the status guo was to be denounced as a legal
and moral parlah, and the rest of the world was to
combine to crush him by starvation or otherwise. To
this day, there are those in high places who believe
in this fantasy, notwithstanding its demonstrated failures
and unhappy consequences. ..........
"The Nine-Power Treaty was based on a condition contrary
to fact--the assumed unimpaired sovereignty and territorial
and administrative integrity of China. Nor for a hundred
years has there been any such thing. Many of the Western
Powers had a large share in its disappearance. To threaten
hostilities on such an issue seems almost frivolous.
"The Covenant of the League of Nations is a document to
which the United States is not a party. The Kellog-
Briand Paot is a self-denying ordinanoe empty of meaning.
All the life was taken out of it by the British and
French reservations or qualifications, which all the
signatories accepted. Among these 1s the plea of self-
defense, of which each country is the exclusive and
unreviewable judge. Japan has made the plea of self-
dofense, and hether credible or not, that ends all
legal discussion of the Pact."
I have quoted so extensively from Judge Moore and Professor
Borchard in order to show that the hypothesis I advanced in my
first letter and have sought to develop herein, is not just
some crack-pot theory of an obscure individual, but is supported
by at least two very eminent experts in international law and
foreign affairs; both of thom noted as sound thinkers and patriotic
Americans.
It is quite apparent that you are one of the many who still believe
in the myth of a guilty nation. This, I am frank to admit, is
much the simplest way to deal ith a situation like the eurremt
Sino-Japanese conflict. however, I have never yet examined a
situation as complicated as this, to find all right with one party
and all wrong with the other. That was the trouble with the bill
of goods sold the American people in 1917; the reason why so
many people now consider that the sale was a swindle. Today
there is no competent historian who does not freely declare that
the cause of the World War were many and varied, and that it is
entirely impossible to assess the war "guilt" of the various
original belligerents.
Proplocy is always hazardous, of course, but I predict that when
impartial history of the current Sino-Japanese conflict is
written, the same thing will prove true. Reason tells me that the
Japanese are no worse and no better than any other nationality;
and it seems to me puorile to act upon the theory that the Japanese

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page seven
March 29, 1938
are utter scoundrels, and the Chinese perfeot saints. Such a
thing has never been true in the whole history of the world, and
I can not belive that it is true now. That is why I feel it is
so terribly wrong (and dangerous) to carry on a campaign of hate
against Japan; who, in my humble judgment is doing no more than
what England or France or America would do ( and has done) under
the same circumstances. That does not make this ideally right, of
course; but we do not live in an ideal world, and we merely invite
the charge of "hypocrite" when we point the finger of scorn at
those who now do what, in effect, we once did. The nations of the
world remember that as late as 1914, we bombarded the Mexican
port of Vera Cruz in open and flagrant violation of a solemn
treaty with "exico; ana thev havo not forgotten that we got much
of our present territory by methods essentially the same as those
which we now denounce Japen for employing.
Is it your contention that because we did such things prior to
the year 19l9, they are now condonable? Or are you like the
village clersyman my father ofton told about, who used to get drunk
and raise hell genorally during the week, and preached against
such things on Sunday; alvays winding up with the stern admonition:
"Do as I say, not as I do!" It seoms to me to be a perniclously
dangerous kind of foolishness, calculated to get us into a great
deal of trouble, to contend that by a sort of "eleventh-hour
repentance," we are absolved from all aggressive guilt, and qualified
to be the moral preceptors of tho world.
It seems to me that we ought to realize that we are living in
the same world that has always existed--a realistic world, peopled
by realistic human beings, who may give a certain amount of lip
service to brotherly love and the Golden Rule, but who are com-
pelled by the will to survive to prey upon each other. I wish
it were different, God knows; but I an not going to allow that
wish to make me believe that it is different. And I am certain
that to pretend that it is different only leads to trouble; only
makes things worse tha they really are.
You courteously inquire if it may not be possible that I have in-
advertently faller a victim to Japanese propagandist and I
welcome the question, though it is a difficult one to answer.
It is difficult because none of us can ever be sure just what
the other fellow means by "p opaganda". All of us have a human
tendoncy to characterize as "education" what squares with our
own beliefs and predilections, and to denounce as "propaganda"
what impinges upon our fixed ideas. I know that is true of my-
self, and I think it is of most everyone. Conseguently, an anti-
Japanist would undoubtedly call me "pro-Japanese" and insist that
I had fallen under the dominion of Japanese propaganda. Accordingly,
I can only answer your question by saying this: If my belief that
there is a Japanese side to the story (which American newspapers,
by and large, have declined to tell), is erroneous; 1f my belief

=== Page 39 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page eight
March 29, 1938
That in the current Sino-Japanese conflict Japan is fighting to
prevent the Communizing or Bolshevizing of China is invalid; if
my belief that the conflict is essentially between Japan and
Soviet Russia and only incidentally between Japan and China, is
incorrect; if all these beliefs are mere opinion unsupported by
facts, then I may have faller a victim of Japanese propaganda.
But not otherwise. Otherwise, I simply remain one of those who
endeavors to look beneath the surface to see what actually is
occurring; and if I a pear to be pro-Japanese it is because I feel
that Japan has her side of the story, which we should hear in
full and weigh carefully before reaching any hard and fast decision
upon a matter that directly or indirectly involves the lives of
130,000,000 Americans.
Finally, I come to the matter of war-scare, in which Japan
is being used to frighten the American people into a willingness
to support the vast naval expansion programme which, as this is
written, has just passed the house of Representatives.
It was this war-scare that I charged Scripps-Howard with aiding
and abetting, and 1 still think the charge is valid. Whether
by design or accident, the Scripps-Howard papers invariably put
the worst possible face on everything that Japan does; and allow
to pass unchallenged the grotesque suggestion that Japan is only
biding her time, waiting the propitious moment to attack the
United States. Peraonally, I do not think that Scripps-Howard
believes this--it is too juvenile and fantastic. But Scripps-
Howard does not assert its disbelief, and the result is that its
readers are being cumulatively,persuaded to consider the war-
scare legitimate.
You and I know, from the experience of 1917, that it is out of
such a state of public psychology that war comes; that peace is
preserved not by suddenly refusing to declare war, but by
dissipatirg or preventing the conditions which, over e period
of months or years, operete to make e declaration of war inevitable.
In April, 1917, anator a ollette and a few other members of
Congress strove to prevent a declaration of war against Germany.
Except for the sake of the record and their consciences, they
might better have saved their breadth. The War Psychology, by
thet time, had bee built into such a formidable force that nothing
could stand against it.
It is to help prevent the huilding up agein of such a war Psychology
that I would have Scripps-Howard ( and all other vehicles of public
information and influence) refrain from unnecessary war talk; from
war-scares, and particularly from the dangerous practice of e -
couraging irrevocable decisions while tempers are hot and before
all the facts are in. There are, I grant you, worse things than

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.99)
Mr. Roy W. Howard
Page Nine
March 29, 1938
war. But on the whole the old saying that there never was good
war or a bad peace is true. War, at best, is nothing but a cruel,
bloody way of shirking--and postponing--the tasks of peace. And
for America, war well might mean the end of demooracy.
It is because I feel so deeply on this subject that I wrote you
the first letter. And I write you this second one because I
so profondly believe that only if we can avoid war can we preserve
on this continent that "new nation, conceived in liberty and
dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal."
This 1s our American birthright. Let us not, in a burst of
hysterfcal idealism, trade it off for a share in the seething
hereditary feuds of Europe and Asia.
Yours sinceroly,
DWR:AR

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
MEMORANDUM
The more I reflect upon it, the more I am convinced that
for the first six months or year the work we have been disoussing
should be carried on so carefully and unostentatiously that no one
except those directly concerned will know what is going on. That
1s why, in all my conversations with you, I have stressed the
point of starting out slowly ana moderately, and gradually expanding
the scope of the endeavor. And that is also why I have constantly
emphasized the direct approach.
Under the circumstances, a very great deal of important
and effective work car be done without the name of Japen being
mentioned. By this I mean that under present conditions, the causo
of better relations between our two great countries can be advanced
by work which takes anti-Ruysian, anti-British and anti-Chinese --
rather than pro-Japanese -- form. Since all those nations are now,
in one way or arother, opposing Japan and trying to lower her in
America's opinion, anything do e to lessen the influence of those
nations in America, will bo of indirect but very rtain benefit
to Japanese-American relations.
Another indirect way of helping to improve Japanese-American
relations, is to encourage in every way the already extensive sentiment
that American should concentrate upon her own affairs and keep entire-
ly out of all foreign ontanglements. This, too, can be done without
mention of Japan, except casually and very incidentally.
The importance of Japan as one of America's best customers
1s also something that can be and should be constantly played up. At

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.98)
一2-
the moment, we are witnessing the tremendous effectiveness of an
organzied drive by Business - to repeal or modify certain taxes
to balance the budgot, and to unshackle business and industry. This
clearly shows what a powerful force Business is; and indicates the
wisdom of using the Business (Trede) approach as a means of improving
American-Jspanese relations, and of making increased trade between
Japan and America one of the keynotes of the educational campaign.
There are a large number of ways in which the Business
(Trade) approach can be advantageously used; and besides being
extremehy effective, it is the sort of thing that can be used without
arousing antagonism or suspicion, and without exciting the charge
of propaganda.
The Communist epproach is likewise one that can be used
very appropri ately and efficaciously. For, as we all know, the great
mass of the American people is admantly opposed to Communism. Conse-
quently, 1f gradually, Japen san be linked in the minds of the
American people with the endeavor to check the encroachment of Commu-
nism, this will rebound to Japan's benefit. The more that Japan
appears as an important barrier agai st the further spread of Commu-
nism, the better Japan's position will be with she American public.
Moreover, by throwing the light on Russian-Chinese relations
and intrigue -- showing what would happen if Japan allowed Russia to
penetrade and dominate China -- much of the American criticism of
Japan's recent operations in China can be gradually allaved.
Incidentally, much of the existing American sympathy for
the Chinese grows out of the mistaken belief that China is a democracy.
Accordingly, the explosion of this fallacy would inlirectly benefit
Japan here. And this erroneous idea could be dispelled without
even mentionang Japan. Articles and lectures presenting the true

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
picture of Chine -- showing the prevailing political and economic
chaos; with the Chinese people ruthlessly exploited by their War Lords
and their self-seeking politicians -- this picture would do much to
put Japan in a more favorable light; and, again, without Japan being
more than casually mentioned. Thus, Americen sympathy for the Chinese
people could be made the means of engendering the realization that
for a long time to come Chine must have strong guidance and control
if she is to establish a stable government and create an economic and
social system under which her people can live decently and securely.
In bringing all such matters up for discussion -- whether
1r articles or lectures -- very little need be said about Japan per so,
and certainly no pleas in her behalf need be made. Only after the whole
story has been told would Japan come into the discussion, and then
just a few words would be sufficient to drive home the point and
accomplish the purpose.
Thus, in the beginning et least, our whole campaign could
be carriud on most effectively with only very scant -- and casual --
mention of Japan; thus -- as has been said earlier of avoiding suspicion
and mntagonism, and the charge of propaganda.
One thing more -- rathe: thar to adopt a rigidly set plan
whereu der a whole year's rogramme would b absolutely set in advance;
might it not be better to start out with the idea of feeling our way.
and developing the progranme as we go along? Personally, I feel that
the first offorts should go mainly to the newspaper and magazine work;
and to lining up and consolidating those now isolated influences and
forces which, if channelled and directed, could be made to serve the
general purpose. Here are toole that already exist; and if we handle
then properly they will be very offective. And, best of all, they
are tools that can be used in that quiet indireot and unostentatious way

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.96)
-4-
which seems so essential.
D.W.R.
December 2, 1937.

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.91)
REPORT OF LECTURE
TOUR
By Alfred Katz
DATE
PLACE
ORCANTZATION
SUBJECT
AUDIRNCE
Nov. 22
Japanose 
Risei
Case for Japan
100 2nd Gnesn
tion Japanese
24 san  rancisco
incaid chool
Caso Tor Japan
Fublic Speakis
Group
Dec. 1 Yube Ity
2wonis Club
The Chine War
75 influential
businesamen
Chico, ali
20-80 2ub
Look Lohind the 30 young
Headlines
businessmen
12
cakland, .
Illa colloge
The Chinese
College group
Har
Mies Bremer's
Class
15
Saeremonto, el. selre seloty
Look ehind the
Mixed group
eadlines
250-300
l6 aryaville,Cal.arysville college
The Shanghai
About 300
Yar
17 Yuba ity.Cel.
irh chool
Caso or Japan
About 300
18
arysville,Cal. xchange Club
Cese "or Japan
Most influenti
businossmen of
district
21
wPaneisco
cewis sontor
The ino-apanose Political
ar
Scienco group
Jan. 24
san runcisco
ity
100
27
San rancisco
dowisn conter
200
28
arancisco
oromen's Club
200
31
sarroncisco
20-30 Clut
200
Fob
3
San renciaco
ortor
200
9
Newcnstle,Cal.
L4on'e lub
11
Newcasho, Cal.
Hisoi
100
13
Auburn,calif.
Forum
150
15
Can rancisco
eaguo 
oion
ritors
150
26
Delano,Calif.
28
Lodesto,calif.
e ia prage
200
Mar.
San Jose,Cal.
eachers Colloge
3
Sar Jose, Cal.
Peachers Ass'n
100
5
San rancisoo
Porolgm rode ea'n
85
14
aosoel.
Hisei
200
Var. 28
omon riters
Apr.
6
Delano,Celir
Chamber of Comnerce
7
Sar rencisco
urohesing gonts, alace otol
14
san rancisco
Sequoia lub
at a to bo sot
Coonwealth Club of Sa rercisco
Optimists.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
SUPPLEMENTLL MEMORANDUM CONCERNING
SPEC IAL CI.MPA IGN OF ELUCATION
(Political Only)
In this Supplemental Memorandum we are pleased
to present the general outline and specific deteils of a
S. EC IAL PLAN for a Nation-wide Campaign of Education, the
aims and objectives of which will be primarily Political.
While this Special lan contemplates using some
matter of a general or culturel nature, this will be used
as background material---to create in America a favourable
impression of Japan and the Japanese eople, as a foundation
on which to build up in the minds of the American people such
a fair and unprejudiced actitude that they will come to have
e cleer understanding of Japan's true position and of her
real policies and aims.
Under this Special len, the headquarters will
be maintained in San Francisco, which is uhe most appropriate
place from which to direct and cary on this work, because
most of the anti-Jeranese sentiment and a itation now comes-
as it has come in the past-- from the cific Coast, and
particularly from Californis. However, the Campaign will be
cerried on throughout the entire nation. The Director will
make trips whenever necessary to New York, Washington D. C.,
Chicago, and other major cities. At some future time it may
be desirable to have an office also in New York, but in the
beginning the work herein outlined can be most effectively
cerried on from San Francisco.

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.96)
2.
This Special lan proposes to concentrate on
three major activities, viz:
1. The M S BURiU, which will publish and distribute:
(a) eekly Bulletins (Clip Sheets)
(b)
Monthly Pamphlets.
2. N PAP ANAGAZINL ArICLS to aar in:
(a)
Daily and weekly newspapers
(1.)
General magazines
(c)
Business and Trade publicutions
(a)
Religious publications
(e)
Fraternal end miscellaneous publications.
3. LECTURE EUHHAU, to provide Lectures before:
(日)
Business and Trade orgenizations
(b)
Luncheon Clubs
(c)
Lodges and other Iraternal orrmnizations
(d)
Women's clubs
(e)
Church clubs
(5)
Miscellaneous organizetions.
The detailed explanation of the three Jtems listed
above is as foilows:
1. The Ns BURNU
This may be named "The Far Eastern News Bureau,"
or "The American-Japanese Trade Information Service," or "The
American-Japanese Trade Promotion Bureau." It soems likely
that the first name might be most appropriate for the purpose.

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.97)
3.
This Bureau will have two funotions, as follows:
Function No. 1
The Purenu will compile and send out in printed
form a weekly news Bulletin (technically known as a "Clip
Sheet"). This will mo so all dnily newspapers; to a selected
list of the ost im ortane weekly uows apers: to trade and
businesn rublicationa; to relirious ublicntions; to chamber
of com erce publieatlonay o ibraries; to colleges, and to a
very solect list of extromoly important und influentiel business,
industrial and financinl eaders: cdisos, journalists, magazine
writers, editorialists, colurmiats, radio comnentetors, et al.
It will be made up primarily of olitical aterial--such as
news items obtained from Consular and other Government Officials
here; translations from Japanese
apers and periodicals; ex-
cerpts from panphlets, brochures, bools, magazines etc., published
in English in Japan; and  lso material sent direct from Japan
to the Burenu by a branch of
the
Bureau which will
be maintained
in Japen.
While most of the atter in the  eekly Bulletin (Clip
Sheet) will be of a political nature, the bulletin will also
contain enough general mat er to  ake it interesting and lively.
and to provide the background material alrerdy spoken of.
By
making the Bulletin thus interesting and timely, and by being
certain shat all of the raterial in it is absolutely authentic,
we can be assured that it will be incrensingly used by its
recipients. Judging from past experience and observetion, it
seems probable that in time the demand for the weckly Bulletin

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.97)
4.
will be so great that the number printed will have to be pro-
gressively increased.
Funotion No. 2
The Bureeu will elso compile and print et least ono
lemphlet a month. A mininum of 15 to 20 thousand copies will be
printed of erch Pamphlet. These will be mailed out each month
to a list of the rmoat im ortant indivicuels in the United States--
leaders in Politics, ournalism, Business, Industry, Commerce,
Finance, Education, Religion, etc.,--- all men and women of
national prominence and wide influence. We already have in our
files e ist of 15,000 such individuals; and this list will be
increased if the response to the first amphlets indicates a
grenter demand.
These pamphlets will  sent out under the name of
the "American-Japanese ublic Relations Cormittee." since it is
desirable to reep the two funcrions of the Eureau serarate,
and to  ave a name that is sug estive of the educational pur-
poses of the pamphlet campaign.
2. NESPAPER AND AGAZINE ARTICLES
As we have alreedy explained this Item in very
considerable detail in previous memoranda, we will not repeat
the explanation here. For full details please see "RouGH OUT-
LINE OF HO OSALS REGARDING NETSPAPERS, AGAZINES, BUSINESS
AND P/D PUBLIC TIONS," dated November 12, 1937; and also our
Memorandum of November 29, 1937, pages 12 and 13.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
5.
In the beginning all of the articles will be pre-
pared by the Director. Later, as opportunity affords, it is
planned to build up a staff of competent writers, which may be
called upon for articles as required, but such articles will
all be carefully read, checked and, if necessary, edited by the
Director.
3. The LECTURE BUREAU
We have already explained the operation of the
Lecture Bureau in a previous Memorandum. For details concerning
this Item, please consult our Memorandum of November 29, 1937,
pages 16 and 17.
In the beginning, the lectures will be made by
the Director. As soon as possible, a staff of regular lecturers
will be trained, end when this as been done the scope of the
Lecture Campaign will be progressively enlarged.
The details of the yearly cost of this Special
Plan as above outlined are as follows:
I. Office Expense:
1.
Rent....
1,800
2.
Personnel:
l Secretary........
1,800
2 Stenographers....
3,000
2 Clerks.
2.400
7,200
3.
Furniture..
900
4.
Equipment
2 typewriters......
250
1 duplicator.
325
1 addressograph.
525
File cabinets......
200
1,300
5。
Stationery & supplies.
1,000
6.
Postage.......
1,000
7.
Telephone and Telegraph.
600
8.
Miscellaneous.....
1,200
$15,000

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.97)
6.
Brought forward--Office Expense....
$15,000
II. News Bureau:
1. eekly Bulletin (Clip Sheet) sent to:
2,000 da1ly newspapers
?,000 weekly
1,000 business publications
500 Chamber of Commerce publications
500 Religious rublications
500 libraries and colleges
500 associations and clubs
1.000 importent individuels
8,000
For printing..........
19,800
For ostage..........
12,480
For mailing.......
9.360
41,640
2. .amphlets-- One pamphlet a
month sent to a minimum of
15,000 important ersons:
For printing..........
32,450
For postage...........
16,800
For mailing........
16,400
65.650*
107,290
(Note:
Asterisk (*) followin figures indicates that the
cost of these itema  e e considerably increased
if the response to the eel ly Bulletin and the
Pamphlets indicates that a materially larger number
of each must be printed and meiled out in order
to satisfy the demand. In such case, these costs
might be erproximately doubled.)
III.
NAGAPICLES
Arproximate estimated costs:
1.
Newspapers........
12,500
2.
Magazines.
10,000
3.
Other publications
5,000
$27,500
IV. Lecture Bureau:
Salary of Lecturers....18,000*
2.
Expense of
5:
11
12,000*
30,000
(Note:
Asterisk (*) following figures indicates
that cost of these items may inoreese as
lecture programme expends).

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.98)
7.
Brought forward---
I. Office Expense.......... 15,000
II. News Bureau............. 107,290
III.
Newspapers & agezines.. 27,500
IV. Lecture Bureau......
30,000
$179,790
V. Salary and Expenses of Director:
1. Salary......
18,000
2. Travelling and other expense
8.000*
26,000*
(Note: Asterisk (*) following the
figure 8,000 indicetes that
this item is estimated and may
be rore or less t an the sum spe-
cified.)
Tolel Cost of Special lan.......... 205,790
San Francisco,
January 20, 1938.

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY---
David Warren Ryder
447 Sutter Street
San Francisco, California
A ROUGH OUPLINE OF PROPOS/LS CONCERN ING THE IMPROVEMENT
OF AMERICAN-JAPANESH RELATIONS
It is all too anparent that Japan's position before the
American public is sorely in need of improvement. At present,
American opinion is cImost l00% anti-Ja anese. Japan is believed
to have made an unprovoked and unwerranted assault upon "defense-
less China," in a campeign of deliberate aggression, undertaken
to put all Chine under her political domination, so that she may
have & free hand to exploit Chinese resources.
In America, todey, there is scarc ly a vestige of under-
standing of Jepen's side of the case. In fect, LHERE JS No REALI-
ZATION THAT THERE IS A JAPANESE SHE OF TH CASH. The CHineSe
have very cleverly represented themselves as the peaceful, helpless
victims of a hure Japanese military juggernaut; and those interests
which profit by engendering discord between America and Japan have
lent themselves industriously to spren in the Chinese version
of the situetion. Thus, to the American eorle, China appears
as the "underdog," with whom it is clways natursl to sympathize.
Moreover, Chine, and the propagandists working in her behalf
(or ageinst Janan) have made it a pear to Americans that China is
e democracy, upholding the principles of demoeratic government,
while Japan is a cruel Fascist nation, ntent upon bringing the
whole Orient under the iron heel of a ruthless despotism.
So low, in fact, has Japen fallen in American opinion,
that for the first time in history Russis is preferred to Japan.

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
2.
This reveals the extent to which Japan's aims and purposes ha
been misrepresented and distorted; because for three quarters of a
century America and Japan have been traditionel friends -- witness
American sympathy for Japan in the Russo-Japanese war -- and thero
is not now any real conflict of interest or other real reason for
the delique cence of such a friendship. On the contrary, there
are many good reason why this old friendship, which has been of
great benefit to both nations, should continue to exist and grow.
However, the fact remains that at present it is dangerously near
extinction -- Americans have lost their friendly feeling for
Japan, and under the impact of clever anti-Japanese propaganda,
are becoming hostile-minded toward her.
Part of this, of course, is the result of something that
Japan cannot help; of circumstance: over which she has no control.
Chinese propegenda has been copious and extremely effective. But
part of it is Japan's own fault. She never has taken the proper
steps to put ler point of view and  er side of the story before
the American people.
Few Americens possess proper information as to affairs in
the Far East. Consequently, their present opinions are formed al-
most entirely from what they read in the newspapers; and we know,
of course, thet news articles lave a decided Chinese bias. Large
headlines about bombing of Americans, resumably by Japanese, have
appeared in our papers, and only by reading the small print on
page two or three can it be learned thet the bombs were really
dropped by Chinese. At least one manufactured photograph has ap-
peared in the American press showing alleged Japanese brutality,

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.98)
3.
but nothing has been printed or pictured as to Chinese atrocities.
Little or nothing hes appeared regarding the Tungchow massacre.
As a result of ell this, it is quite natural that the
American does not realize Japan's position. The open antagonism of
China, and the enace of Russia, may threaten the national existenci
of Japan, but the American people do not understand this. Russia 1
probably the greatest military power in the World today, and China
presents tremendous military possibilities. Moreover, the ties
between these two nations are constantly growing stronger; and
neither is friendly to Japan. Therefore, Japan must be prepared to
meet either or both in wer. But, again, Americans do not realize
this.
Neither does the American public mow that anti-foreignism
in China is merely immediately (and conveniently) anti-Japanese;
that the next Chinese rallying-cry may be anti-British or ant1-
American. In a general wey, Americans may know that Chinese act
effectively throuch secret societies, but the widespread and ex-
tremely effective anti-Jepanese ropoganda carried on by Chinese
"Blue Shirts" is not realized in the U.S.A. The advance in China o
leaders definitely antagonistic to Ja an is not known by Americans
neither do they now of the incidents involving assaults and
murders, provoked and prolonged by the Chinese. only a tiny few
Americans reslize that Chinese aguressions forced the issue of the
present conflict; that Japan was compelled to take action.
If Americans knew all the facts, it is unreasonable to be-
lieve that they would be hostile to Japan. But not knowing the
fact, and being fed on Chinese propaganda, it is perfectly natural

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.97)
4,
that they should sympathize with China. Consequently, the
situation as it exists today clearly shows .that a campaign of
education to put the real facts before the American people is not
only desireble, but absolutely randatory.
Whether we live it or not, this is the age of Advertisement,
or publicity. Unless we explain our roduct, our idee, our position
or our aim, it will not be wanted or understood; or, as the saying
goes, "get anywhere."
Jepen is lile the anufecturer of e good
article, who, knowing his article is good and believing it should
therefore sell on its merits, declines to advertise it -- and is
having his business taken awi y by a rival ranufecturer whose pro-
duct, APPHALINGLY ALVENTISED.
Essentielly, Japan todey is in much the same position that
Henry Ford was in when he undertook to continue selling his old
"Model T" efter rival auto manufacturers hed brought out a low-
priced car that not only performed well, but LookED well.
H1s
seles fell off tremendously, and he ws forced to come out with a
new model snd to edvertise it extensively before he got back his
s tanding with the rublic.
If Joran desires to regein American friendship and under-
standing it is necessery that she carry on a campaign to put her-
self end her  osition and aims in a favorable light before the
American peonle. And Japan's peculier  osition -- with both China
and Russia hostile and eager to "gang up" against her -- makes
American understanding and friendship a very desirable thing.
The
next wer, if it should occur, may find Japan meeting stronger
opposition than now. She may find herself more isolated, end in
need of friendly Powers; or at least  owers who will be neutral
in fact.
The United States is one of the richest end most power

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.97)
5.
ful nations in the world, and seems likely to remain so. Hor
influence will be felt in some form in any major wer. Japan may
not desire the aid of participating allies in fighting Far Eastern
bettles, but she may find herself in need of friendly nations who
help indirectly; or, if this is not possible, at least stay
strictly neutral and not directly or indirectly aid Japan's possib
opponents.
In putting forth effort to re ain American understanding
and friendshir for Japan, anything tiat smacks of outright
propaganda must of course be eschewed. only education, through
information, intimetion and subtle suggostion can achieve the de-
sired result.
Such a campaign of education must be conmenced in a quiet,
unobtrusive wey. It would urt more han help to begin it with a
splurge. It should be commenced qu. tly, and then gredually ex-
panded.
 Moreover, the plan and methods must be such as to permit
people to draw their own conclusions -- but so adroitly handled th
in the end P
ILL B. ONLY ON CONCLUSION TO DRAW. A campaign
of educetion is always muc? more effic cious if those to whom it
is directed feel that they are FIH MNG OUT FOR TIhliSELVES,
rather than being oLe. That is one of the chief reesona why
the British have always been so much more successful in this
kind of worl: than the Germans have. The Germans TELL people what
they should think, believe and do. The British employ the in-
direct method of subtle suggestion, intimation and insinuation,
so that the peonle they desire to influence are not even aware
that they are being influenced, but alweys feel that they are
forming their own opinions. People always resent being ToLD.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.98)
6.
Consequently, the campaign in behalf of better relations
between Japan and America must be a campaign of real education;
adroitly and subtly conducted.
It is easy to write effective advertising and publicity for
a well-known, popular product -- the Buick automobile, for instance,
or the Ford. But it is NOT easy to do this in behalf of an unpopular
product -- one of which the public las come to believe, rightly or
wrongly, everything bad and nothin good. lowever, it can be done.
The public's opinion can be completely changed by skilfull publicity;
es in the case of Rockefeller. Japan's position with the American
public today is not unlike that of the late John D. Rockefeller
twenty-five years ago. To the American people of that time he was an
industrial villain. But by a campaign of education, he was trans-
formed into a veritable seint.
In the same way, end
throuh the sre means, Japan can re
gain the understanding end friendshin of Americe. But it will be no
cuick, eesy job. It will sle time, and conscientious, adroit effort.
lerely spending & lot of money will ot be enough. Success depends
entirely on the wey in which the work is done. A quarter-page ad-
vertisement, well and attractively prepared, is many times as effective
as a full-page ad unintelligently and unattractively prepared. It is
not so much the omount of money spent, as how it is spent, that counts.
It should be emphasized that quick, sweeping results cannot
be expected. A deep-seated disease of long standing cannot be ex-
tirpated in two or three treatments. The cure is a gradual, cumulative
process. The good physician knows this and goes about the treatment
with infinite cere. The existing American attitude towerd Japan is in

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.97)
7.
the nature of e deep-seated malady. It cannot be changed or oured
overnight, and it would be mischievous to pretend otherwise.
More-
over, the patient has to be cured IrlHouT
KNO" ING
PHAT HE IS
EVEN
BEING PRET L.
The American people, as we have remarked before, are ex-
tremely ignorant of the renl facts
of
the Far
Eastern situation.
Living thousends
of niles awey, and
engrossed
with their own affairs,
they could hardly be otherwise; perticulerly, when no real effort
hes been made to A ISLiAD end  IsInFoHl. them.
Consequently, one of the
first requirements is to make the true facts aveilable to all the
sources and vehicles of public informetion -- to newspapers, magazines,
trede pepers end other puhlications; to journalists, editors, radio
comrentators, educators, et al.
Everyone connected in any important
wey with any vehicle or agency of  ul lic informntion must be given the
factuel material regarcin Janan's rer urroses and ains, and the
situetion in the Orient.
A great deel of this would not be used right
awey, of course, because the emper of the country is aroused against
Jenan.
But this
will cool, and chis information must
be available,
so thet
when the
time
cones i. can be ready for use.
And this material
must be authoritative, slilfully repared, and presented always FROM
THE AMERICANOINTF VI.
There are two main fronts on which the problem cen be
initially att cked -- the business or trade front, and the political.
As to the former, the first tesk would be to acquaint the vast busi-
ness public with trade end comrercial facts -- the importance of
Jepan as
customer for American rroducts; the value of Japanese
trade; the necessity to American prosperity of not losing any of
this trade, and the great desirability of increasing it.
In the last

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.97)
8.
analysis, everybody is more or less dependent upon business. Thore-
fore, except during such times as mass opinion is inflamed by war or
war scares, business fectors are the most potent factors of all. Con-
sequently, the business approach to the problem of repairing Japan's
position with the American public, is an excellent one. If it is pro-
perly employed, in time the aid of the vast country-wide net-work of
business and  rede org nizations can be enlisted. The beneficial
effect of this vill be remendous, because besides influencing the
vest membership of ell these organizations, the general public will
be indirectly influenced. If che vest business public cen be persuaded
to take a friendly position voward Japen, the battle will be more than
half won.
On the political front, the otject of the initial atteck
should be to make the American people realize that Japan, by standing
athwart Russian expension in the Orient, is  temming the tide of Commun
which is the only enemy that Americe renlly has to fear. This is a
quick, sure way to the American consciousness. For at least ninety-
five per cent of the Americen people are unalterably opposed to Com-
munism; and once they come to renlize that Japan is effectively re-
sisting the spread of this cbnoxious system, Japan will be raised
vestly in American opinion. At the present time, Americans have no
ides of the eid Jaran is now rendering America by resisting the spread
of e doctrine which is so inimical to American ideas and ideals.
Consequently, one of the rirst objects of the cempaign we are suggestin
would be to inform them fully on this score. This would especially
appeel to all the great patriotic organizations, like the American
Legion, the Deughters of the American Revolution, The Elks, et al.
et al.

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
9.
The "AY in which all we are discussing should be done is
very important. we know, of course, that in doing a given thing
there is a Pritish way, a French way, a Germany way, a Japanese way,
an American wey, etc., Each is good in its own  lace, but not good
elsewhere. There is : subtle something -- a delicate nuance --
which only the national of the country concerned is capable of under-
standing. Consequently, the campaign we are proposing must be con-
ducted in the AMEnICAN Y, by an American.
The mechanics of such e campaign are not particularly com-
plicated, but they naturally depend to a considerable extent upon
the amount of money to be expended. lowever, one of the salient
features of the campaign we would undertale, is its extreme flexibility
It can be as large or as small as circumstances require. It cen be
commenced on e moderate scale and ex ended as re idly as desired to
almost any proportions. It can be quick ly altered, both as to its
scope and its direction.
A rough outline of some of the ain features of the plan
follows:
The establishment of LCAh-ORIENT/L D NES BUREAU
under which would come:
1. The Clip Sheet
This would be sent weckly to all daily newspapers, and to
e select list of the most important weeklies, in the U.S.A. It
would be sent also to all well-known ournalists, lecturers, radio
commentators, etc.; and to a carefully selected list of first-rank
individuals in the business, commerciel and financial world. It

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
10.
would be printed, and go out by first-class mail. It would contain
a wide variety of timely and interesting business and trade items;
all celculated to show the value of trade between Japan and Amerioa,
end the baneful effect created by a diminution of this trade.
An enlarged monthly issue, comprising all the contents of
the four weekly issues, would go out once a month to ell bus iness and
trade publications; to chambers of commerce, trade associations,
service clubs, to university departments of foreign trade, university
libraries, and to all public libraries in the large cities.
II.
The American-Japanese Digest
This would be a monthly publication of e political com-
plexion. It would be what the name implies -- a digest of all pertinem
material regarding the Far East; interpreting for American readers
the real significence of Far Eastern events -- parbicularly those
affecting American-Japanese relations -- free from the distortion
and misrepresentation that now characterize the reporting and inter-
pretetion of such  atters. It would be based on authentic materials;
upon real fects; but would interpret these facts from the point of
view of friendshir between America and Japan. in this publication,
the ides previously referred to -- of Japan as a check upon Russia
and Russian Communism, would be extensively developed. It would
present the true facts about Russia and China, so that Americans
would come grndually to understand the reasons for Japan's present
action, and for any future action that right be required by that
situation. It would extensively develop all of he rensons for
American-Japanese friendship, and vaking up the various so-called
points of collision between Japan and America, show how these have

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.98)
11.
been largely pumped up by those who profit by hostility between
America and Japan.
III.
Radio Broadcasts
There would be F series of redio talks on American-Japanese
relations; rimarily over the smeller networks, which can be in-
duced to grent a cortsin amount of time, free, to educational material.
Also, records would be ade of ualks on this subject, so that they
could be used for broadcasting by electrical transcription.
It vouid also no  ossible to arrange to participate at
certain times in the Redio Forums conducted by some of the large
Eastern newpa ers. And by  aking the proper contacts, it would be
possible to participate in some of the regular com ercial programmes,
sponsored by firms to whose interest it is to build increased trade
between the two countries. Aiso, various chambers of commerce and
trade associstions have reguler radio  rogrammes, and by the proper
contact with thes inscitutions it would be possible to arrange to
participate in these progremres. There ar numerous other ways in
which the redio can be used, and whic? we will present later when we
have a betrer ide of the eveilable finances.
IV.
The  otion Picture.
During the past eight years vo have  ad a great deal of
experience with the use of the otion picture in educational campaigns,
and have found uhe so-celled industrial films an exceedingly effective
educational medium, since it reaches the audience in the form of
entertainment. e have directed the making and exploitetion of
several such notion pictures, and are thoroughly familiar with the
best methods of gett ing them extensively before the public in the
most advantageous and economical way. A film, for instance, that

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.97)
12.
showed the operations of the silk industry in Japan, could be so
placed thet it would be widely shown throughout the country -- to
lodges, luncheon clubs, women's clubs, forums, schools, end innu-
merable other groupa.
V.
MAGAZINE, NE PAPER, BUSIHESS AND TRADE PAPER ARPICLES.
This is such a big and important field, that a separate
memorandum is being prepared and will later be presented to you.
In concluding, let it be emphagized that we are not claiming
to be able to perform miracles. It would be too much to expect
that American can be made pro-Japanese. The best that can be ex-
pected is thet existing hostility will be allayed, and that the
attitude of the American people will become such that, during peace-
time or wartime, they will be ready and willing to ear Jepan's side
of the case and Japan's oint f view.
If this is accomplished, it
will be well worth the effort and cost. For once the existing
hostility is allayed, and the American eople are willing to heer and
consider and understand Japan's point of view, friendship and good-
will will grow naturally, and as e atter of course, over the years.
Sar. Francisco,
November 10, 1937
。R.

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.94)
OUTLINE OF EDUCATIONAL CAMPAIGNS
Numbers:
1.
2.
3.
and
4.

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
PLAN No. 1 -------- Yearly Budget:
$300000
1. OFFICE EXPENSE:
Ront:
San Francisco (Headquarters)
$2,000
Now York City (branch)
1,200
Chicago
900
$4,100
Personnel:
1 Office Manager
2,400
1
tn
2.000
4 Stenographers
6,000
3 Clerks
3,600
1 Auditor
3,000
1 Pookkeeper
1.800
18,800
Furniture:
For three offices
2,500
Equipment :
6 Typewriters
750
3 Duplicating Machines
975
2 Addressographs
1,050
3 Sets of filing cabinets
600
3,375
Stationery and Supplies
2,500
Postage
2,500
Telephone and Telegraph
1,500
Miscellaneous
1,200
Total Office Expense ....... 
36,475
(Continued on next page)

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 2.
Plan No. 1, continued
Brought Forward -- Office Expense
.$ 36,475
2. NEWS BUREAU:
Weekly Clip Sheet (or Bulletin)
Sent to:
2,000 da1ly newspapers
1,500 Weekly
750 Business publications
750 Chambers of Commerce
500 Libraries and colleges
500 Important individuals
Totel
6,000
For printing
14,300
Postage
9,360
wailing
6,000
Envelopes
780
30,440
3. NEWSPAPER AND MAGAZINE ARTICLES ....
22,500
(For explanation and details of the
(Nowspaper and Magazine Programme, see
(accompanying memorandum)
4. RADIO CAMPAION:
184,580
52 Weekly Broadcast of a quarter-hour over
a Nation -wide hook-up, covering New York, Boston,
Hartrord, Providence, Worcester, Portland, Me.,
Phdladolphia, Wilrington, Baltimore, Washi ngton,
Scheneotady, Buffalo, Pittsburgh, Cleveland,
Detroit, Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Chicago,
St. Louis, Minneapolis, St. Peul, Des Moines,
Omaha, ansas City, San Francisco, California,
Oakland, Los Angeles, Portland, Ore., Seattle,
Spokane, & total of thirty (30) cities, and
(continued on next page)

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.98)
Page S.
Plan No. 1. continued
Brought Forward -- Ofrice Expense, News
Bureau, Newspeper and Magazine
Articles, Radio Campaign ..... $ 273,995
RADIO CAMPAIGN, Continued:
Reaching a total radio audience of an est-imated
50 Milllon people. (For a detailed nd complete
explanation of the Radio Campaign, see
accompanying memorandum).
Salary of Director
18,000
Travelling and extraordinary oxpense ...
8.000
Grand Total .........$
299,995

=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 4.
Yearly Budgot: $500,000
1. OFFICE EXPENSE:
Ront:
Sah Francisco (headquarters)
$2,400
Hew York City, (branch)
2.400
Chicago
n
1.800
$ 6,600
Personnel:
2 Office Managers
4,800
6 Stenographers
8,100
6 Clerks
6,600
1 Auditor
3,600
2 Bookkeepers
3.600
$26,700
Furniture:
For three offices
3,000
Equipment:
8 Typewriters
1,000
3 Duplicatin mach ines
975
2 Addressographs
1,050
Necessary Filing cabinets
1,000
4,025
Stationery and Supplies
3,600
Postage
3,000
Telephone and Telegraph
1,800
Miscellaneous
1,800
Total 0ffices Expense ..$50,525

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.97)
Page S.
Plan No. 2. continued
Brought Ferward -- Office Expense
$50,825
2. NEWS BUREAU!
Weekly Clip Sheet (or BuDotin)
sent to:
2,000 Da11y Newspapers
2,000
Weekly
1,000
business publications
1,000
Chambers of Comerce
500
Libraries and Colleges
500
Clubs and Societies
1.000
Important Individuals
Total ...... 8,000
For Printing
19,800
Postage
12,480
Mailing
8,320
Envelopes
1.040
41,640
3. NEYSPAPERS AND MAGAZINE ARTICLES
37,500
(For explanation and details or the
Newspapers and Magazine Programme, see
accompanying memorandum).
4. MOTION PIUTURE CAMPAIGN:
2 Master films
12,000
100 ccp1es
15,000
Projection expense
15.000
42,000
(For oxplanation and details of the
motion Picture Campaign, see accompany-
ing memorandum, under Pian 2)
5. LECTURE CAMPAIGN:
6 Lecturers .....
18,000
Expense of Lecturers
12,000
30,000
(For explanation and details of the
Lecture campaign, see accompanying
memorandum, under Plan 2)

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.97)
Page 6.
Plan No. 2 continued
Brought Forward -- Office Expense, News
Bureau, Newspaper and Magaxine
articles, Motion Paeture Campaign,
Lecture Campaign .......
 $ 191,665
6. RADIO CAMPAIGN
52 Weekly Broadoasts of a quarter-hour over a
Nation-wide hook-up, covoring the same cities
as enumerated in Plan No. 1, plus Norfolk,
Raleigh, Charlotte, Greonville, Ashevillo,
Columbia, Charleston, Louisville, Nashville,
Memphis, Atlanta, Birmingham, Jackson, New
Orleahs, Denver and Salt Lake City -- a total
of forty-six (46) cities, end reaching an
ostimated total radio audience of more than
60 million people
$ 229,508
Radio Talent for programme embellishment
23,000
(For a detailed and complete explanation
of this Radio Campaign, see accompanying
memorandum).
Salaries:
Director ...... $25,000
1 Asst. Director. 10,000
1 Asst. Director . 8,000
43,000
Travelling and Extraordinary Expense
12.5:00
Grand Total
.$499,673

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.96)
Page 7.
Plan No. 3 ------
Yearly Budget:
$300,000
1. OFFICE EXPENSE:
Same as in Plan No. 1 .......
$38,475
2. NEWS BUREAU:
Same as in Plan No. 1
30,440
3.
NEVSPAPER AMD VAGAZINE ARTICLES:
Same as in Plan No. 1
22,500
4. RADIO CAMPAIGN:
30) weekly broadcaats of a quarter
hour, over the same hook-up and embracing
the same c1ties as in Plan No. 1 ...112,406
5.
MOTION PICTURE CAMPAIGN:
Same as 1n Plan No 2.
42,000
3.
LECTURE CAMPAIGN:
Same as in Plan No. 2.
30,000
7.
SALARY:
Same as in Plan No. 1.
.18,000
8.
TRAVELLING AND EXTRAORDINARY EXPENSE:
Samo as in Plan No. 1
8.000
Grand Total
299.821

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.97)
Page B.
Plan No. 4
.... Yearly Budget:
$500,000
1. Office Expense:
Same as in Plan No. 2, exeopt for addition
of increased personnel and equipment
$ 62,075
2. NEWS BUREAU:
Weekly Clip Sheet (or Pulletin)
Sent to:
2,000 da1ly newspapera
6,000 weokly
1,000 business publications
2,000
Chambers of Commerce
1,500
Libraries and Colleges
1,500
Club and Societies
2.000
Important individuals
Total ... 16,000
Printing .......
$39,600
Postage
24,960
Ma1ling
16,640
Envelopes
2,080
83,280
3. NEWSPAPER AND MAGAZINE ARTICLES:
Same as in Plan No. 2
27,500
4. MOTION PICTURE CAPAIGN:
Carried out in the same manner as in
Plan No. 2., but increased to:
4 Master films
24,200
300 Con1as
45.000
Projection Expense
35,000
104,000
5. LECTURE CAMPAIGN:
Carriod out in the same manner as in
Plan No 2, but inoreased to:
20 Lecturers
60,000
Expenses of same
40.000
100,000
6.
PAMPHLET CAMPAIGN:
One pamphlet a month to 15,000 important
individuals and Organizations:

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 9.
Plan No. 4 continued -- xpense forward ......
$376,855
Printing
$32.450
Postage
16,800
Mailing
10,400
Envelopes
6,000
65,650
(For explanation and details of Pamphlet
Campaign, see accompanying momorandum)
7. SALARIES:
Same as in Plan No. 2 .
43,000
8.
TRAVELLING AND OTHER EXPENSES:
Same as in Plan No 2
12,500
GRAND TOTAL
498.005

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 10.
MEMORANDUM ACCOMPANYING AND EXPLAINING RLANS
NUMBERS 1, 2, 3, and 4: AND COST OUTLINES.
Plan No. Is
$800,000
1. Office Expense
This does not require very extended explanation.
The Plan contomplates maintaining the headquarters office in San
Francisco, with branch ofrices in New York City and Chicago. The
two larter would be in charge of carefully chosen assistants, and
I, as Director of &ducation, would visit them at least every
two months; and probably oftener.
Furaiture and oquipment are the minimum required
for efficient operation.
Personnel requirements may vary somewhat from the
schedule -- we may need more stenographers and less clerks, or
vice versa. This is a minor matter and can be adjusted as
the routine becomes established.
Needless to say, every one of the personnel would
be chosen with great care, because in work of this kind it is
even more important tha ordinarily to have only persons of ex-
omplary character -- trustworthy and friendly, as well as com-
petent. None of the work will be secretive, but much of it
will be confidential, and so it is highly desirable to have even
the ordinary routive work in friendly hands. Fortunately, I have
connections in all three places, through which it will be
possible to obtain trustworthy end competent persons.
2. NEWS BUREAU
Under the Nows Bureau comes the Weekly Clip Sheet
or Bulletin. This would go out weekly to six thousand newspapers,
magazines, chembers of commerce, important individuals, and

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.98)
go 11.
other recipients. It would be in printed form, and go out
by first class mail.
The Clip Sheet can be made a very effective edu-
cational medium. It must be very informative -- and not argu-
mentative -- and the information in it must be interesting and
timely, as well es accurate. And while it must not be argu-
mentative, it should and can be subtly persuasive -- so presmnted
as to engendre and cumulatively advance the idea of better
trade and cultural relations between American and Japan.
The information in it must be so interesting that the
recipients will accept and use it for that reasom; and so
authoritative that they will come to feol that they can rely
upon it implicitly.
There is never any way of telling in advance
exactly how much of this materiel the newspapers and other
publications will use. In the boginning, they are likely to
be cautious; but as they grow accustomed to its regular
appearance, and see thet it i: 1nteresting and authentic
material, they will use more and more of it. (A few years
ago, in my steamahip work, for the period of a year I kept
an accurate check of the use of publicity material prepared
and sent out by myself. During the year, the newspapers used
enough to fill space that would have cost 67,890 at regular
advertising rates, and the total expense to us was only between
five and six thousand dollars -- $5876.85 to be exact. Not
only did we secure all this space in the newspapers at a
fraction of its cost, but we obtained SPACE AND POSITION WHICH
COULD NOT HAVE BEEN BOUGHT AS ADVERTISING AT ANY PRICE).

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 18.
So, I am speaking from experience when I state
that the nowspapers and other publications will use material
sent them in this way; provided that it is timely, informative,
properly written, and authoritative.
As a matter of fact, there is little question that
the dumand for the Clip Sheet, or Bulletin, will in time
become greater than the supply. The F.H.A. (Federal Housing
Administration) reports that it has had excellent results
from its Clip Sheet, and I know that several universities
have had a similar experience. The main essential is to make
and teop it interestingly informative and indisputably accurate
and authoritative. Operated on that basis, it is bound to grow
in acceptability and influence.
3. Newspaper and Magazine Articles
You will understa nd, of course, that, under the
circumstances, no specified number of articles can be guaran-
teed. However, as a result of past experience in this charac-
ter of work, I believe it will be possible to place one or
more articles, or a series of articles, in the Hearst papers;
The Seriop-Howard papers; the New York Times; New York Herald
Tribune; Baltimore Sun; Springfield Republican; Chicago
Tribune; Boston Transcript; Philadelphia Public Ledger;
Pittsburgh Post; St. Louis Post Dispatch; Denver Post; Los
Angeles Times; Portland Oregonian; Spokane Spokesman-Review;
New Orleans Times-Picayune; Detroit Free Press; Milwaukee
Sontinel; Cleveland Plain Dealer; Cincinnati Times-Star;
Kansas City Post; Christian Science Monitor; St. Paul Pioneer
Pross; Hartford Courant; Providence Journal; and in approxi-
mately l00 papers of lesser importance.

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 1s.
Also, in the leading Catholic publications.
Regarding the Magasines, I am also confident that
if the matter is properly handled, articles can be placed in
such magazines as Harpers, Scribners, Atlantic Monthly, Forum,
American Mercury, Foreign Affairs, Tale Review, Saturday
Evening Post, Collier's, Liberty, Asia, American, New Republic,
Nation, Common Sense, Survey Graphic, Fortune, Readers' Digest,
American Legion Monthly, Elks Magazine, the Rotarian, besides
many magazines of lesser importance, and most of the Business
and Trade publications. Having written for many of these
publications, I kmow, from experience, the type of article
they are most likely to take, and how to prepare and handle it.
4. Radio Campaign
This is an exceedingly important factor. As
educator as well as entertainer, the radio has been forging
ahead rapidly until now it ranks as high, as, if not higher
than, the newspaper in the influence exerted upon the general
public.
With radio, as with other forms and methods of
education, the effect comes cululatively. It is gained by
regular, consistent repetition. Consequently, the Plan calls
for a full year's campaign -- 52 weekly broadcasts of a quarter-
hour each over a nation-wide network. They would go out over
28 of the largest and most important stations in the country,
covering 30 of thelargest cities. They would be embellished
by music and other appealing entertainment, so as to gain
the widest possible audience. By having a pamphlet which
would be sent to all who wrote for it, we could to a consider-
able extent check the appeal of the weekly programmes, and

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.98)
Pago 14.
alter them to reflect the findings of this test.
It is hardly necessray to state that the Radio
Programmes must be free from anything having the remotest
semblance of propaganda. Otherwise, time on the air could
not be obtained, because Radio is under the strict control
and supervision of the Foderal Communications Commission,
which bars absolutely anything of a propagande nature.
Under the ciroumstances, the progmammes would
have to be most carefully prepared. They would have to adhere
rigidly to the INDIRECT approach, and should therefore be
built around non-political subjects. Merely as a suggostion
to convey the idea, the "Srory of Silk" would be something
to which there would be no objection, and it could be made
the subject of seweral intesresting broadcasts. The same
is true of such subjects es the "Pearl Industry","Japanese
Prints", "Japanese Flower Arrangements", and so on. There
are a great many subjects which could be used in such a way
as to present Japan to the American people in a friendly
7
and favourable light, without getting into palpable propaganda,
and without making a direct plea for any such thing. There
is abundant evidence to prove that the INDIREsT method is by
far the most effective one; not only because it avoids the
charge of propaganda, but primarily because it causes people
to come to the desired conclusions without being aware that
they are being led to reach such conclusions.
The precise nature of each one of the 52 weekly
broadcasts cannot, of course, be stated in advance; but after
the first six or eight programmes, it will be possible to tell
what degree of public interest they are gaining, and from

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 15.
that time on they can be shaped accordingly.
In order to forestall any objection from the
Federal Communications Commishion, it may be nocessary to
form a Committee of American business men -- or some similar
organization -- to sponsor the Redio Campaign.
PLAN NO. 2:
$500,000
1. Official expense
This ieom has been increased to take care of
larger office space and inereased personnel.
2. News Bureau
This item has been increased to $41,640, to
provide for the printing and distribution of an additional
2,000 Clip Sheets.
3. Newspaper and Magazine Articles.
What was said regarding this item under Plan
No. 1, appearing earlier in this Memorandum, applies equally
to it under Plan No. 2.
4. Motion Picture Campaign.
The industrial film has proved itself to
be a splendid educational medium. Coming in the form of
entertainment, it obtains a willing and an attentive audionce.
Under Plan No. 2 it is proposed to make two master industrial
films, each of some subject that would properly serve the
purpose -- here again "The Story of Silk" would be a good
one -- and tho. to make 50 copies of each. These would be

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
Pag 16:
shown throughout the whole country -- to Business and Trade
organizations, Luncheon Clubs, Women's Clubs, Lodges, Church
and Social Clubs, Schools, Colloges and Family Cireles.
Having handled the making and showing of severa! such films,
I know from experience exactly how to proceed, and can state
unqualifiedly that in the course of a year these films can
be shown literally thousands of times, to audionce ranging
from 75 to 500 people.
5. Lecture Campaign.
The American people like lectures. Therefore,
good lecturers are in demand -- at meetings of Business and
Trade Associations, Luncheon Clubs, Women's Clubs, Church
and Social Clubs, High School Assemblies, University Forums,
and many other similar organizations, Everyone of these
organizations has a "programme committee" whose job it is to
secure entertainment of some sort -- a lecture, a film,
musical numbers, etc., etc., -- for the various meetings of
their organizations. with so many such organizations through-
out the country, meeting so frequently, the demand for good
lecturers is greater than the supply; especially since many
of these organizations cannot pay anything for entertainment.
Consequently, it will be easy to keep busy the six Lecturers
which this Plan calls for -- busy every day in the year.
6. Radio Campaign
Everything said regarding this item under Plan
No. 1, appearing earlier in this Memorandum, applies with
equal force to it under Plan No. 2. The only difforence is that
under Plan No 2, the number of cities has been increased to
46; necessitating a corresponding increase in the cost to

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Page 17.
$252,508, includ1ng the item of $23,000 for radio talent for
ontertainment to embellash the programmes.
PLAN NO. 3 -- Yoarly Budget $300,000
Items 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8 remain exactly the same
as in Plan No. 1; and Itom 6 is the same as in Plan No 2.
In Item 4 -- Radio Campaign -- the number of weekly broadcasts
has been cut from 52 to 30, lowering the cost to $112,406. Tho
saving thus effected -- approximately $72,000 -- has been
allotted to Items 5 and 6: a Mot1on Picture Campaign at
$42,000, and a Lecture Campaign at $30,000. Both the Motion
Pioture and the Lecture Campaigns are exactly the same as
those stipulated and described in Plan No. 2.
PLAN NO. 4 --- Year1y Budget: $500,000
It is deemed advisable to have one Plan which
does not depend upon the Radio. Plan No. 4 is therefore
suggested as an alternate to Plan No. 2. It eliminates Radio
entirely, and apportions the money thus saved to greatly
expanded Motion Picture and Lecture campaigns, and to a
comprehensivve Pamphlet Campaign. Explanations of the various
items follows.
1. Office Expense
This has been raised $1l,550 over this Iten in
Plan No. 2, to provide for additional requirements in personnel,
office space end equipment.
2. Nows Bureau
This will operate precisely the same as in Plans

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 18.
1, 2 and 3; but the number of Clip Sheets, or Bulletins, to
be sent out weekly has been raised to 16,000 at a corresponding
increase in the cost.
3. Newspaper amd Magazine Artieles.
7
This Item remains the same as in Plan No. 2.
4. Motion Picture Campaign
This would be carried out precisely the same way
as described in this Momorandum for Plan No. 2, but has been
increased largely in its scope. Accordingly, the cost is
proportionately higher.
5. Lecture Campaign
This Item has been explained rather fully in this
Memorandum under Plan No. 2. The difference is that under Plan
4, it would be very substantially expanded -- and increase
from six to twenty lecturers, at a corresponding raise in cost.
6. Pamphlet Campaign
This is a new item; not in any of the other plans.
It provides for a minimum of twelve different pamphlets, and
one each month would be sent by first class mail to a select
list of 15,000 important individuals and Organizations,
throughout the United States. This could be made a very
effective educational medium. It is calculated to appeal to
leaders in all lines of endeavor -- the outstanding mouldors
of public opinion -- and to influence the public through
these ageneies, rather than directly.
Items 7 and 8 -- Salaries, and Travelling and other
Expenses -- remain exmctly the same as in Plan No. 2.
It should be stated that in the event it became
necessary or desirable to eliminate Radio from Plans 1, 2

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.98)
Page 19.
and 3, a Pamphlet Campaign and expanded Motion Picture and
Lecture eampaigns could be substituted in them in liou of
Radio. All of these items are extremely flexible, so that
in contractod or expanded form they may be fitted into any
of the various Plans. Moreover, all of these items are of
such a nature that they could be comnenced on a small or
moderate scale and gradually expanded as the situation
warranted.
D.W.R.
November 29, 1937.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
The following suggestions, though roughly expressed, are
not hastily thought ideas but the result of several years of
thinking. To put these ideas into actual practice is a plan
I wished to do for many years. These plans are not listed neces-
sarily in the order of their importance.
R A D I O
First in importance in America today as a medium of pupli-
city is the radio. Every homo has its radio and now almost
every pleasure car is equipped with a radio. Radio in fact
is now a necessity, not a luxury, and at no time of the day
1s any person in the United States out of its reach. Japan offers
an untouched field as a source of radio programs for America. In
the past Government-operated Japanese radio and privately-operated
stations in America have not been able to cooperate. The distance
between the two countries and the expense of transmittal have made
it almost impossible to do except on rare occasions.
Radio programs from Japan would command attention -- in
fact, would be a sensation because of their uniquenes.. The
American public is always demanding something new and Japanese
programs would be both novel and fresh.
I。
Trans-Pacific braodcasts. Such broadcasts might be
a speech of some famous Japanese statemon, scientist, educator,
etc. There are also many unique things distinctly Japanese which
are technically possible, for example, the descrption of a climb
up Fuji-san, the broadcest to be made during the ascent. A
broadcast from the crater of Mount Asama, a performance of the
Miyako-Odori -- Kikugoro, of the Kabuki -- Japan's famous koto-

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
player, Miyagi -- and an orohestra of Japanese mmsical instruments.
These broadeasts made in English with brief explanations should
be something never before heard by the American radio listener.
It is suggested thet one program might be given each month, the
approximate cost would be about $2500 per broadcast. Working
through L. & P. and giving N. B. C. or C. B. S. the righttto
make these sponsored programs would make it necessary to pay the
expense of the first two or three programs enly.
Twelve months at $2500 ... $30,000.
II. Transcriptions. These steel recordings are designed
for radio use only and tired to nake a 15-minute program; now the
only means of getting a Japanese program is to use phonograph
records. These are unsatisfactory because they are not suited for
radio -- they aro too noisy, not timed correctly -- they sound
mechanical -- some stations heve a rule forbidding their use.
To offset this, there are some or fifteen companies in Los Angeles
alone who make radio transcriptions. These transcriptions are
then sold to large and small radio stations throught the country.
A transcription made in Japan of Japanese music or some other
subject would be accurate
 -- correstly timed and natural. In
other words, it would be made to sound as though the performance
wwere playing or singing directly to the radio audience. This is
one of, if not the most, important radio device, because small
radio stations not included in the chains can give a standard
program. The usual cost of such transcriptions to the radio
station is from 5.00 - 10.00 for each record. There are many
subjects in Japan, but the most important, from the American point
of view, are musical records, for example, folk music, such as
Isobushi, Miya-sama, etc. Japanese orchestra renditions of ancient

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
-3-
ancient and modern music -- children's songs -- explanation and
demonstration of the various Japanese musical instruments --
street-calls in Tokyo -- Japanese stories, legands and fairytales
told in English but with the same sound effects as used by the
travelling story-teller. There are many other subjects, both
literary, scientific, and musical. I will prepare a more detailed
list of suggested subjects of Japanese radio transcriptions.
To give continuity to such transcriptions, it might be arranged
as though a Japan se friend were guiding an American about Japan
and exnlaininp in easy conversational style the many interesting
things.
 Thus these transcriptions would form a series.
The apparatus for making these transcriptions could be
installed in any recording studio, such as Columbia or Polydor.
The additional apparatus needed, it is estimated, would cost
about 15,000, including installation. The recordings would be
sold to tho radio station by L & P at a price slightly below the
usual cost. It is estimated that about 5, Ooo transcriptions could
be sold on which there would be a gross refund of about 15,0oo.
III. Minor Radio Publicity.
There are about 20 centers
of Oriental studies in the United States and each of these is
anxlous to broaden its activities. To do t his, funds are necessary
from such foundations as the Rockefeller Fund and from private
individuals. To get such funds it is necessary to show that the
work is worth-while and so publicity for each of these Oriental
centers s always desired. They obtain such publicity by printing
publications, written by their scholars -- by lectures -- by news-
paper publicity -- and also by broadcasting over the radio.
By paying for radio time, talks by famous scholars could
be arranged. Through L & P it could be intonated that such radio

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
4
time would be peid. The money thus spent might be said to come
from a publicity fund, a Japanese publishers' association, etc.
The talks thus rade would be broadeast by local stations or over
the smaller not-works. The estimated cost of a series of 5 pro-
grams from each of the 20 University centers, that 1s, 100 talks
at $100 (usual cost 30-minutes radio time) over a year's period
.10,000.
There are many other ways of using the radio, such as fur-
nishing ideas for radio stories. In fact, radio, being like the
newspaper, ca: be adapted to fit the idea of the moment. It might
be mentloned that thereever possible the use of the radio for
publicity by other Japanese units, such as Tourist Bureau -- N.Y.K.
-- other private business firms could, in fact, should be placed
through L & P as they would be able to avoid duplication. Also
because of their other contracts with radio companies, they would
be able to get lower rates.
PRIZE STORY
This is not a new idea asit is now being used in the
United States and has beel. found to be very practicable. The
idea is for a publisher, a motion-picture compeny in the United
States, a motion-picture company in Japan, and one of the popular
American magazines to co-operate in offering a prize of -- say
-- $5,0oo, in addition to the usual royalties for the story submitted,
using Japan as its fundamental theme. Such a story might also be
printed serially in Japanese in a Japanese newspaper and also in
book form in Japan. A second or third prize consisting of a trip
to Japan might also be offered.
To work out such a plan Mr. Lee should come to Japan so

=== Page 89 === (confidence 0.99)
-5-
that no details would be overlooked. While here, persojal letters
could be written to friends with such publishers as Houghton Mifflin
Co., -- Bobbs Merriall
-- Macmillan, etc., and also to friends
with M. G. M. -- Warner Bros. -- Fox -- or R.K.O. In such a way,
the publisher or movie company offering the best proposition could
be chosen. The publisher would mare the magazine connection. These
four companies would share the expense of prizes, publicity, etc.,
subject to a subsidy.
The campaign should extend over a period of six months, the
backbone of which would be trans-continental broadcasts. The enter-
tainment could be furnished by the famous stars of the motion picture
companies or the famous authors whose books were published by the
publishers. In each of these ten programs information about Japan
would be given which would help the contestants in writing their
stories To all contestants, in fact, to anyone -- who would write
in for a copy, a pamphlet of data and picture about Japan would be
given.
The publisher would suppprt the program by the use of
posters placed in all book-stores throughout the country,and also
by their adver ising in magazines and newspapers. A movie company
would support the program by placing Posters ir the lobbies of
thousands of movie theatres, by giming information in their theetre
programs, and by announce ents from the stage or screen. A magazine
could also built interest by reproducing Japanese pictures in colour,
and thus in the six months' perlod, perhaps every person in the
United States would become aware of this campaign. This publicity
by the publisher, movie company, ard magazine would be in addition
to the radio boradcast outlined above. And these people w uld be
willing to do this because of the profit theyrwould receive from

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
-6-
this plan es a straight business proposition. The time allowed for
rthe writing of such stories should be not less than 9 minutes, and
so this campaign, from its beginning, would probably extend over a
period of two or three years; first year being the campaign: second
year being the period in which the movie would be shown, and the
book would be sold. The second year publicity would extend over
into a third year, I believe.
Ly th use of the prize story, a reason could be given for
bringing Japan to the attemtion of every person, old or young, rich
or poor, in the United States; and I think that when the campaign
1s finished the country as a whole would have more accurate informa-
tion about Japan than they do at present.
The cost of such a prize story, including prizes, radio
broadcasts, booklets, and other expenses is estimated would run
from $75,000 - $100,000. If the four members of this group were
offered a subsidy of one-third of this amount, I think they would
all scramble for & chance to join such a plan.
NEWSPA PERS
VI. Syndicate stories.
The large newspapers have their own special correspondents,
but in America, wvery village and hamlet has its small country
newspaper. Every line of these newspapers is read for it contains
local news and gossip. When there is nct enough local news these
small newspapers fill up space by using syndicate material,a story
or picture of a newsppper syndicate, made and printed in from 1 -
5,Oo0 newspapers. It is therefore suggested that attention be
given to the sale of tories and photographs to the newspaper syndi-
cates. Such human interest naterial could be handled by L & P.

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.98)
-7-
V. Magazine illustrations.
From the files of such sources as the Nippon Magazine, Japmn
in Picture, Vainichi, ard Nichi-Nichi, Asahi Camera, and from special
sources, a photograph service of Japanese subjects similar to the
service performed by Underwood & Underwood could be furnished
by L & P. The cost of these photographs to the magazine could be
fixed as a figure slightly below that usually charged by a regular
photograph sales company.
VL. Human interest news stories.
Such news story as a dog rescuing a baby -- stories which
touch the heart are always eagerly read by the American people for
they are not hard-boiled but very sentimontal. Very few such stories
are sent from Japan because of the cost of transmittal but such stories
intermingled with national and international news would play an
important part in building public opinion in the United Statos.

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
MAGAZINES
In the past years much attention has been given to magazines
appealing solely to the highly educated in America. Thus writers
as well as publicity agents have tried to get their articles accepted
by such magazines as the Atlantic Monthly, American Mercury, Harpers,
Scribners etc. These magazines however reach only a very limited
class of Americans.
wo other groups of magazines have been neglected though
their circulation far exceeds that of the group mentioned above.
These magazines may be roughly classified as the "Pulp" or popular
story magazine and Business magazines. The writers of stories for
the "PULp" magazines cannot be classed as literary geniuses but
they are skilfull and have a style and method that appeals to the
vast bulk of American readers. They write fast, producing sometimes
a story a week and consequently are always looking for new ideas and
plots. It is writersssuggestion that through L & P, these writers
could be offered plots and ideas for stories about Japan. This
would be accomplished by sending a circular letter offering such a
service at a vary reasonable cost. These plots and ideas would be
translations of Japanese historical stories local legends and other
material that would bring out the character and quality of the
Japanese nation. Thus when suc stories were published Japan would
be pictured in the proper light.
To obtair these stories, one or as many translators as
were needed would be employed by the L & P office in Tokyo. These
would translate stories, articles, etc. which would be supplied
t the writers by L & Pis San Francisco office.
Business magazines in the past have carried little informa-
tion about Japan except to protest against Japanese competition.
Articles and stories about Japanese industries, articles on Japanese
economic conditions etc. would be welcome. These would be secured
by L & P's translators and by special writers and sold at the rebular
contributor's rate to these business magazines.
The cost of making translations would in all ordinary
cases be included in the cost of maintaining L & P's Tokyo office
unless some exceptionally large undertaking should be attempted by
special request but once this service was under way it should be
self supporting.
Estimated cost for publicity in commencing, and for other
expenses for one year .......... $5,000.00

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
LECTURER'S
Through the Japan Tourist Bureau, the N.Y.K. and other
bureau's material for lectures about the scenery of Japan, the famous
temples, etc. are supplied. But these are only the exterior shell
of Japan and it is about the people, what they are doing, thinking
and saying that is of the greatest interest. The scenery, famous
buildings, and great cities form a background for the thoughts and
actions of the people themselves.
There are in America many, many famous lecturers who talk
on special subjects,- Prof Eames of Pomona College on Music; Prof
Driscoll of the Univ. of Chicago on Art; etc.,such people always
desire authoritative data about their subject as it concerns Japan
but still more they like to discover or think they have discovered
some little story, some incidents that touches the hearts of their
listeners. Such incidents when they are related make their lectur-
ers more human, more apnealing and create not only interest but a
deeper understanding.
The Tokyo office of L & P would s end by mail a circular
letter to all such lecturers, offering to supply data, films, slides,
photographs, stories, books, etc. These could be furnished by the
Tokyo or San Francisco office of L & P at a nominal charge. Also
such people would be invited to visit the offices and read such
material as could not be sold or loaned. Spocial requests would
be carefully investigated and if in Tokyo, the lecturer would be
guided to such places as would give him the information he wished.
In this as in other things it is necessary that this service
and this material be given for a reasonable charge and not furnished
free. When furnished free such material becomes propaganda and is
viewed with suspicion whereas the same information sold fpr a low
charge is always in American thought to be valuable and not propaganda.
The material (books, photographs, etc.) thus furnished
would be secured by the same method as previously mentponed concern-
ing magazines. The staff of translators would make abstracts from
books, reports, etc. Photographs would be secured from such sources
as Asahi "Japan in Pictures"; Osaka Mainichi, Nippon Magazine,
Tourist Bureau, Etc. A complete card file index of all Japanese
educational films would be kept available,ete.
The estimate cost of this service especially at the beginning
before it began to pay its way would be for one year about 5,000.00

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
MUSIC AND PHONOGRAPH RECORDS
Of the vast storeof Japanese music only a very, very small
portion is known or 1s available for the American and English public.
The notation for Japanese instruments is so different from westorn
notation that it is valueless until rearranged. There is now pub-
lished a series of volumnes containing Japanese music in western
notation byt the titles of the music and the words are in Japanese
characters and so they cannot be read. Likewise the arrangements
themselves for the piano are technically perfect but to American
ears they are flat and insipid. Japanese composers and arrangers
have followed the German and French style of composition in which
the theme is emphasized at the expense of the bass which is usually
ultra simple. American preference is for a fuller richer harmony
with the theme sometimes lost and sometimes emerging. In this I
ar speaking from my experience in the past with radio and while they
are many thousands of Americans whose musical tastes coincides with
the simple style of arrangomont the average person prefers the
American style.
Americans are prone to follow the fashion, "keep up with
the newest styles" and if one of America's most popular composers
or arrangers made a success with musio based on Japanese themes
every other composer or arranger would follow.
Through L & P. one of America's largest music publishers
could be induced, by subsidy 1f necessary tc send an arranger
and 1yric writer to Japan to do a series of Japanese songs not
only for piano, ptano and violin, but also for orchestra. The
Japanese original melody would be transformed into a rendition
harmonious to American ears and the Japanese words would be
translated into English verse-lyrics. These songs would be
published and sold as other American songs and thus would be
heard in hotels, cafes, homes, over t e radio, etc. Here with
due modesty it might be explained that the writer'a real hobby is
music, having learned to play the piano and pipe organ almost as
soon as he could walk. Also a few months ago, the writer received
a personal request from America's largest music publisher to do a
series of Japanese children songs to be issued in a series and
used in schools and home. Because of my teachings duties I have
not yet had the time necessary to do this.
It is also thought that in connection with motion pictures
already mentioned and also with radio and radio transcriptions
it is vitally necessary that a store of Japanese music in western
notation and American style be created. For this purpose either
by subsidizing a American musical publisher or by a direct contract
with an arranger, such a porson would be brought to Japan and would
work in the Tokyo office of Lee and Perkins. Such a person would
not only work on short songs and other short compositions but would

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
also be capable of arranging Japanese music for a new Japanese
opera. A person capable of doing the best work would not come home
for money alone but would have to be persuaded. In this connection
the writer would have the full cooperation of his friends Mr. and
Mrs. Clay Osborne, famous writers for radio and motion pictures,
whole help would also be secured 1n connection with radio and
motion pictures previously mentioned. A separate report will be
made concerning Mr. and Mrs. Osborne as they would play an impor-
tant part in the work of L & P.
Before leaving the subject of a Japanese opera it might
be suggested that in the event that the "Prize Story" 1dea 1s
not used a "Prize Opera" or e "Prize Japanese Song" composed by
an American might be used. Such "Prize Music" might also be used
as a secondary event after the Prize Story" was nearing the comple-
tion of its campaign.
Phonograph records are far less popular 1n America than
in Japan for he increased use of the radio has forced the phono-
graph from its high popularity. The phonograph record companies
however continue to produce and in connection with Japanese music
L & P would also use the phonograph companies so t at each month
some Japanese theme would be found in the list of new records.
The expense of arranging Japanese music for American taste,
for bringing an American arranger to Japan, and other expenses for
one year 1s estimated to be about ---- 35,000.00. Th1s expense
however would decrease month by month and would eventually become
almost shaf supporting.

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPAN GAZETTE
DISTRIBUTION IN AMERICA
The writer has given much thought to the problem of
distribution of this periodical. While its field is limited
this very limitation simplifies the question of distribution
and makes it possible to concentrate on the people and insti-
tutions who are possible subscribers.
First and foremost of these possible subscribers are
the City and County Public Libraries; the University and Collego
Libraries; and the professors and atudents in University courses
on Far Eastern subjects. In every city there 1s usually a news
stand specializing in magazines of all countries and on all
subjects and such news stands particularly in college cities
should be able to sell from one to fiue copies of each issue.
Railmoad station news stands should also be able to use a
certain number of copies.
The price of 30d in American money is somewhat of a
handicap. Many popular magazines are sold for 5 or l0d each
containing a hundred or more pages and from eight to twleve
long articles. The large number of pages is of course made
possible by advertising but the American public likes to see
and read advertising and any magazine without advertaising
becomes more of a pamphlet and in America a pamphlet is
associated with propaganda. There are other magazines such
as American Magazine - Cosmopolitan etc. which sell for 20 - 25d
per copy and these are especially popular. For 25e, one may buy
a good magazine and still have 5d left with which to get a copy
of he morning or evening newspaper.
Twenty five cents however is the limit which the average
will pay ror a magazine without debating the matter in his hand
as to wbbther or not 1t 1s worth the price asked. 30-35-40-50
75 magazines, the average American classes as luxury and he
usually does rot buy them unless they are ahout his hobby pr unless
he buys them to put on his living room table to impress visitors.
The Americar coins are the Nickle (5d); Dime (10d);
Quarter (25d); Half Dollar (50d) and Dollar (1.00). Thus to buy
a 30d magazine he must offer a quarter and a nickle or he must
break a half dollar. This is a matter of psychology; sales
psychology but it becomes important when a low priced article
is be ng sold. Therefore if it is possible itis suggested that
this magazine be sold for not more than 25daand that the yearly
subscription fee be not more than 2.75.
It is the writer's suggestion that the distribution of
the Tokyo Gazette b placed in the hands of L & P. The writer
and Mr. Lee could prepare a letter to be sent to the libraries
and other prospects mentioned above. Such a letter to be sent

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
-2-
fdesired.
as first class mail about a week before a sample copy r the
magaz ne is sent. In this letter, attention would befdrewn to the
official and scholarly tone of the magazine, that it /is authori-
tative and that any article from it may be reprinted At the same
time in the letter a return envelope, prepaying postage only if
it is used, would be enclosed and a special subscription rate,
25 - 50d cheaper, be offered for a limited period.
On week later a sample copy of the curremt issue would
be mailed to each of these prospects. A week or possibly two
weeks later a follow un letter or post card might be sent out
to all those who have not subscribed offering as an extra pre-
mium a map of Japan, of the Far East or some other premium which
is thought desirable.
While this campaign was being carried on L & P would
arrange with American News Company to place one copy on sale at
all International News Stands and at the same time arrange for
its sale in the independent railway and largo hotel news stands.
Under such a plan all copies returned unsold after one month, need
not be paid for, but an arrangement could be made by L & P and
the News company to have these surplus copies distributed to High
Schools,Junior Colleges, or City Libraries. Thus every copy would
be utilized and gradually a subscription list built up.
If advertising is desired in order to meeteAmerican taste
then arrangements for the s ale of a dvertasang space could be made
by L & P with one of the leading brokers of such space.
There are approximately 11,O0o 1ibraries 1n American
Public and school. To this can be added approximately the same
number of High Schools and Colleges to whom copies of the "Tokyo
Gazette" might be sent.
Although it is difficult to give an exact estimate without
more study of the subject I beliove that a subscription list of
5,000 can be obtained if the proper effort is efficiontly made.
Another plan which might be worked to'build up the
subscription list is to combine to circulation of a Japanese
magazine with a more populer app al with the "Tokyo Gazette".
Thus for example "Japan in Pictures" and the "Tokyo Gazette"
might be distributad jointly in Aroricar and a special price
made for the combined issues. Ir this event rany readers at
first interested only in"Japan in Pictures" would come to know
and like the "Tokyo Gazette" and vice versa. The cost of building
up subscription and newstand sales of the two magazines would
be no more for two magazines distributed jointly than for a single
magazine. In such an event the cost of distribution to each
magazine would be cut in half.  A joint or club offer might be made
also for the "Tokyo Gagette" and any ono of the other Japanese
magazines such as "Nippon Magazine" -- Tourist magazine, etc.

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.96)
-3-
1
"JAPAN IN PICTURES"
This magazine if reduced in price and its contents
changed to appeal more to the popular taste could become one of
the most popular American newstand sellers. Even on the present
basis it could be distributed by American News Company or an
independent agency through almost every news stand in America.
A separate study is being made of the contents of back issues
of "Japan in Pictures" and a special report will be made suggest-
ing certain changes in its editorial makeup as well as subsorip-
tion, distribution and advertising methods.
In closing it might be added that a magazine such as
"Japan Gazette" could be distributed in America, mailed fpom the
offices of L & P for approx lt per issue. First class postage is
3per letter.

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.99)
BOOKPUBLISHERS
During the past two years many, many books about
Japan and the Far Esat have been issued by American publishers
(a check list of these may be found the Publisher's Weekly Aug.
14, 1937). Most publishers however 1ssue books not because they
contain certain information but because they will sell many
copies. To sell many copies the book must be sensational and in
the case of Japar and the Far East such sensational books some-
times, many times contain statements detrimental to Japan. Thus
more authoritative books written in a calm scholarly style are
refused by the publisher not because they are favorable to Japan
but because the publisher does not believe they will sell.
The writer has known of almost a hundred of such
mss which if published would have added to the knowledge in
America about Japan. Three of these are to be published in
Japan but though issued in English their sale in Japan will be
limited to a few copies only because Japanese publishers have
been slow or hesitant in making connections in American similar
to arrangements between American and English publishers.
Many many times it would be possible for the publisher
to accept a book authoritatively written and favorable to Japan
if the author or some one would assume part of the cost of pro-
duction. In other words the publisher, if he did not have to
risk a chance of having many unsold copies on his hands would
publish the book. In many cases such a book might become popular
but in other cases the book m1ght sell only 500-1,000 cop1es and
therefore not pay expenses.
It is suggested that L & P offer to aid the publisher
in cases where he i: offered such mss and that in return for such
aid that the publisher give L & P a certain number of copies of
the book or agree to refund if and when a certain number of copies
have been sold. If copies of the book are supplied then these
copies would be available from the L & P office for any purpose
desired. Some could be sold in Japan and others sent to the
Consulates and other o"fices.
Such a plar vould mean that American publishers would
print more books containing authoritative information about
Japan and th authors of these books would be encouraged to do
additional new research about Japanese things.
In this connection also it is desirable that L & P act
as American agents -- a storage and clearing house for the sale
of Japanese ooks in English printed in Japan and for the sale
of the rights to print Jepanese books in America in English.
Publishers in Japan such as Hokuseido, Kenkyusha, Sanseido
and others sell their books in lots of 10 or 25 copies under the
present circumstances and reorders are seldom mede because of
the time it takes to send an order to Japan and receive the book.
On the other hand if there were available in the office of L & P
in Ameriua, ample storage space for 10 - 50 copies of each book
in English, reorders could be completed in one week as against
6 weeks if the order must come to Japan.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
Another suggestion concerns certain books on art or
history published 1n Japan in Japanese but containing many many
beautiful illustrations in colors or in colotype. Such books are
expensive to produce and being in Japanese can only be sold in
Japan. Were the publisher to print also a very brief English
explanation of each plate, these books would have a wide market
in America and England. If the books 1s already printed and
bound the publisher could insert the English text by pasted
s1ips.
Again there are books now out of print issued by
publishers (Japanese publishers) who are no longer in business.
The plates for the beautiful illustrations are perhaps stored
in the warehouse of some printer and could be purchased for a
fraction of their cost. It is my suggestion that where such
a book is found and believed to warrant translation and repub-
lication in English that L & P have their staff make such a
translation and then purchase the plates and arrange for the
right to publish in America. The plates and translation would
be sent to I & P in America who would arrange for the sale
of the plates and publishing in America by some American
publisher. Thus in such a way another book, many books written
by Japanese experts could be brought befare the American public
and the knowledge, a correct knowledge of Japan could be given.
It is difficult to estimate the cost of this work with
publishers as the number of mss now available is not known and at
the same time part of the transactions would be commercially
profitable. It is therefore that a certain appropriation be
made and used only when it is felt that results would be obtained.
Such ar appropriation might for the first year be placed at
approximately..

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.99)
INSTITUTION IN AMERICA
SPECIALIZING IN JAPANESE OR
FAR EASTERN SUBJECTS
There are in America a growing number of institu-
tions interested in Oriantal subjects. Some of these are con-
nected with the Universities, some are independent, and @ me are
divisions of associations interested in many fields. The writer
was for many years in touch with all of these and intimately
conneeted with some of the mos! important of them. These con-
nections have been continued and even broadened since coming to
Japan.
These associations for the most part are anxious to
increase their activities and importance -- to add to their
staff of instructors -- to add to the number of volumes in their
library -- to publish books and pamphlets about Japan and the Far
East, etc. These desiree -- the wishes of these Oriental depart-
ment fit in with the plans of L & P and as in the case of radio,
in publishing books about Japan, in arranging for lectures, etc.
these associations can be utilized to their fullest extent.
It is therefore desirable that fund be created to
be judiciously administered to these societies and colleges in
small amounts where direct and effective action can be secured.
One suggestion which the writer has had in mind for
some time is the creation of a travelling institute cf Japanese
studies. Such an institute created with the aid of L & P under
the auspices of an American University would offer students
University credit. Two American Universittes have already thought
of such an idea but have not yet put 1t into practice.
It 1s suggested therefore that these Universities be
approached once more and that it be arranged with them to have
such a course of studies offered wit! their co-operation. Notices
would appear in their catalogues, students completing the course
would riceived regular credit as though they had attended the
University. The cost to each student would be the same or little
more than if he was attending the University and paying for his
living expenses.
Arrangements would then be made weith the Tourist
Bureau, the N.Y.K. or some other Japanese steamship company, and
with one of the Japanese Universities or directly with certain
professors. Students would then sign up for the course as
though attending the University. On a certain date they would
leave for Japan on a passenger boat with which arrangements had
been made. On the voyage over they would spend each day attend-
ing classes in Japanese language, history, literature, art, etc.
as though they were at the University. Arriving in Japan they
wculd travel along a prearranged route studying as thoy went and
possibly staying for two woeks or more in both Tokyo and Kyoto.
On their return voyage they would also study.
T think such a traveling college of Japanese studies
would be immediately popular and that each year the number of
stuacnts enrolled would increase. Some suvsidy might be needed
the first year but as the course became more popular it would
be able to operate on its own funds. The teachers could be both
American and Japanese, each one expert in his subject.

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.97)
-2-
If such a plan were adopted immediately I think it
could be in operation in the summer of l938 or possibly sarlier.
The American Universities who have been intemmsted in the past
are still interested and could be approached without delay.
The amount necessary for the work with American
Japanese Institutes for aid in publishing books, lectures, etc.
is hard to estimate But for the first year might be approximately,
25.000.00.
The aid necessary for the establishment of a Japanese
Traveling University could be included in the above figure or
if additlonal funds were available $10,000.00 could be wehl spent
in publicity, special text books, and for eatra expenses in Japan.

=== Page 103 === (confidence 0.99)
JAPANESE FOOD
One of the best ways of introducing a country in
the proper light is by means of food. Other countries have
done this especially in America where new types of food are
always eagerly sought. Now if Japanese food 1s desired or
ordered "chop suey" is invariably brought as this is believed to
be theuuniversal dish of both Japanese and Chinese.
There are many delicious dishes common in Japan and
many of these are known to the tourists who are coming to Japan
in increasing numbers. For example,- Tempura - Domburi - Sukiyaki
etc. In America there are many chain hotels - chain restaurants
- etc. so that if a certain food in introduced in such a chain,
all of the other units throughout the country would follow. An
ideal place to intdduce such foods would he the Fred Harvey
Restaurants operated by the Santa Fe Railroad - Child's Restau-
rants - etc.
In the New Yorker Hotel for example a tempura table
could be placed or in the same restaurant a Japanese room could
be built and sukiyaki and other/dishes served. Japanese girls
Japanese
born in America could be employed dressed in Japanese costume.
It is my suggestion that this idea be carried out
by L & P ostensibly under the auspices of some Japanese trade
association such as sake dealers - rice dealers - Japanese Green
Tea Ass'n., etc. for all of these people would benefit through
the increased sale of their products in America if Japanese
food was introduced and became popular. Such being the case
L & P could act as the representatives and sales agents for
these Japanese food dealers and mfrs. ass'ns.
To carty out such a plan a Japanese expert chef or
cook could be sent to America to teach how to prepare such foods.
(Mrs. Perkins by the way has become increasingly skilfull in
preparing Japanese foods and now while in America will show her
friends how to make some of the more popular dishes.)
The cost of sending a Japanese food expert to America
and the preliminary arrangements it is estimated at about
5,000.00。

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
LEE & PERKINS
During the last five years of the writer's work as
General Sales and Advertising Manager of the California Consoli-
dated Water Company, a subsidiary of Standard Oil of California
the writer was constantly associated with Mr. Harry Lee. Mr.
Lee during that period was an executive with the T. T. McCarty
Co., Advertising Agency and as that agency handled our adver-
tisingm Mr. Lee gave practmcally his entire time to our sales
and advertising problems.
During that period I came to know him very well and
not only respected his business ability but also valued highly,
his prsonal friendship. Thus it was natural that when I came
to Japan that I should continue to keep in touch with him by
letter.
Gradually the business men of Kyoto and Osaka became
aware of my past business experience and came to me to help them
with their husiness problems, especially when these concerned
America. Litte by little these required more research and more
time and effort and so when a commission was offered us for our
work, the 1dea of Lee and Perkins was formed. Mr. Lee and I
both felt that there were many products in Japan which if proper-
ly introduced could be succesefully sold in America. Japanese
fans, kimono, books, woodprints, ningyo, are a fe examples
of manufactured products. Japanese vegetable oil, fibre board,
Sanko also.
Certain American products were also practically un-
known in Japan. 'Machines for manufacturing steel wool from
waste metal for example; mechines for manufacturing cups and
bottles from paper; silk impregnated with rubberized oil;
electrical specialties, etc.
Becaase of the writer's position as a kotogakko
teacher, such work must be accomplished in leisure hours there-
fore the volume of work was limited although it was hoped that
eventually the partnership of Leo and Perkins could be operated
as a self supporting concern.
In American today the idea is prevalent that in Japan
only cheap products are manufactured and it has been the,writer's
desire to introduce to Americans the wonderful products made
by Japan's fine craftsmen. The work of Japan's artists - modern
artists is unknown in America and to overcome this and acquaint
American art teachers and stucants with Japanese designs the
writer has sene to Americe several thousand of the Beautiful
Nishijin artists designe and their design books. Japanese
books on literature -- science - art - music - history - etc.,
have aslo been sent to booksellers in New York, Boston, Phila-
delphia, Detroit, Chicago, New Orleans, San Francisco, Los Abgeles,
Kansaa City, etc. Thus little by little Lee and Perkins have
tried to make Amoricans better acquainted with products which
truly represented Japan. The profit from this work has hot been
large - not enough to support the writer were he not receiving

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
a salary for other work.
During the past three months seberal more ambitions
projects have been undertaken. One was the introduction of
small Japanese motors -- another project was to secure for an
Osaka electrical manufacture, the right to manufacture in Japan,
certain specielty products which heretofore they had been foroed
to buy in Ameriea. A third project as yet uncompleted was to
locate a source in America from which each month Japan could
obtain several thousand tons of the best grade of scrap metal.
Thus far no connection has been made in Japan for this metel
but it is hoped that we willbe able to do so.
On all of these subjects a reasonable commission
only has been : sked and it has been the writer's desire to
watch out for the interests of his Japanese friends as though
they were his on interests. Thus at the present time the writer
and Mr. Lee are making arrangements for more efficient distri-
bution of the magazine "Nippon". Up until the present time the
Americar sales have been handlod by a small concern w ich is not
dishonest has failed to make a proper accounting and payment.
Mr. Lee is a young man of about 28 years born of paronts,
moderately well to do. Mr. Lee's father however has insisted that
his son make his own way in life and so on completing his college
work he entered the McCarty Advertising agancy in a minor position.
Though I am not positime I believe Mr. Lee was with this firm about
five years, during whech period he gradually assumed more respon-
sible work. In 1936 his work attracted the attention of one of
the largest advertising agenetes in the U.S. -- J. W. Thompson
Co. a firm having offices in all the principal cities of the world
and acting as advertising representative for nearly a hundred of
America's leading manufactureres.
Because of Mr. Lee's type of wor: he must be acquainted
with all types of business and especially with radio, motion pic-
tures, magazines, newspapers, publishers, lecturers, in fact
every type of publicity work. The writer also during his fifteen
years as Sales, Publicity and Adv. manager built up a friendship
with many people in the same field. Thus Mr. Lee and I having
mutual interests folt that a partnership would be ideel.
At the presont rate of progress, as Mr. Lee and I
are only able to give e few hours each week to the work, it will
be a long time before the firm of Lee and Perkins is self-suppcrt-
ing. However we have done our work in the past carefully and
conscientiously and have a foundation for future business.
Lee and Perkins are now operating and are ready at any time to
handle/project, especially publicity work.
any
If further detailed information is desired as to
the names of the persons for who. we have acted or more details
as to the various projects this information will be given gladly.

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.95)
MEMORANDU TO  TARAHARI
SUBJECT: Highlights of Pamphlet Campaign.
Here are some figures and aome general highlights which may
interest you and the Commi ttee.
To date we have publiahed and/or distributed approximately
the following:
Pamphlet 1.
Pamphlet/2.
Special Pamphlet (hy Cut f ur Nose) . 30,000 
Speolal Pamphlet (There Is o Talfway Heutra-
ty)29.00
00,500
(a ve to an overprint there are still approximately 1,700 of
these pamphlets on hand, but they are bein sent out daily to
a seleet list)
(wu Thore are still a few hundred of these pamphlet left, but
it a so is being sent out daily).
Bealdes the above, we have dlstributed 250 books by Seake
Carter, and are now distributing 2.000 reprints of a series of
art1cle in the COTTON A JOURNAL, and 20,O00 "TIEY SAY" leaf-
lets.
Pamphlet No. 3 of the regular series 1s now in the hands of
the printer, and should be ready for distribution about June 4th or
6th.
Some or the special hi hlights which may interest you are:
1. e have received 288 communieations -- letters or cards -
of which 25l were requests for additional coples of one or another
of tho various pamphlets; and roquesta to be put on the Mallin
List. (In some case these people were on one of the Special Lists,
but whenever they wrote in they were put on the general list to
receive all future pamphlets).
2. Twanty-one people -- five in the last four daya -- have
aubscribed to the Pamphlets for a year in adavnce -- three lawyers:
three doctors; two clorgymen; four university profeasors; two
steamship executives; one Con resaman; three business men; and two
women -- one a secretary and the other a teacher, and also one
editor. ne businoss man (retired) who lives near Carmel came up
to San   anclaco, and Just happened to see the April iasue on the
S.P.newstand. He bought a copy and lile d it so much he came to the
offiee and bought six copies to give to frlends. Later, he sent in
for 18 more, and still later sent in the names of eight people to
whom he wanted copies sent. PWe now have a fund of e3.8s from this
source, which is being held for special postage).
3. Altogother, thirty-six peopk, including five wamen, have
come to the office and asked for one or more copies of the various
pamphlets, in some instanoes aaking us to put friends of theirs on
the me lling list.
4. Seventy-nine Llbraries have writtenin, asking to be placed
on our Mailing List. In all instanees this hms been done, and
letters written thanking and so advising them.
5. People from as far away as Melrose, Mams; Providence, R.I.)
Cherleston, S.C.) Now Orleanm; New York; Lurfalo; Norfolk, Va.)
Boston, Springfield, Maas.; Rochester, N.Y.J Philadelphimj Baltimore;
@leveland, and St. Louis have written in asking to reeeive ons or
another of the pampblets and to be put on the permanent malling list.

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.96)
Highlights of Pamphl ts Campeign -- 2 --
6. The head of the Califormle Nedisal School's Pharmaselogy
Dept. wrote to commend the April issue and its purpose, and to
request that he and the Library recsive all future iseues and be put
on the Permanent Mailin List.
7. The ditor of a newspaper in Morth Sacramento published a
small item commendin the Joycott pamphlet.
S. Approximatoly C90 copies of the arch 1ssues were reported
sold at news stande. At 4  cents aplece, thia amounts to 3l.06.
Thus far only  6.95 has been paid in. Newe dealers are nearly al-
ways slow about makin returns, ut it is not ood polloy to press
them, empecially in the case of a new prublieatlon.
O. Coples of the April Issues have been sent -- on Consignment
to a alect newsatands and book stores in Reno and Carson City, Nov.;
Jolse and Pocatello, Idaho; Denver, Colorado Springs and Pueblo,
Colorado; gden and alt ake City, tah; Cheyenne, Wyoming Spokane,
Seattle an Tacoma, aah.; Portland, Salem and ugene, Oregonj Saera-
mento, Stockton, resno, Loa Angeles, San Dlego, San Franelseo and Oak-
land-Berkeley, California. Individual copies of the Marah and April
issues have been sent to the editors and or publishers of the prin-
clpal newspapers or other publications in the above-named cities; as
well as to a Special Seloct List of Senators and Representatives in
Congress; igh  oderal and State Officials, prominent newspaper and
magagine editors, colummists, radio commentators, a nd others. A
list of Catholio bookstores is now being secured, and copies of the
next iesue will be sent -- on Consignment -- to theme. The list
of Catholic publications is being added to from time to time, and
the editors of these publicetions are bein put on the Special
"Publications" Permanent silin List.
10. f all the many thoueands of pamphlets that hete been
meiled out, less than 1 have been returned. This is very
gratifyings Indicating that our ailing Lists are all "alive" and
In good condition as to axmet addresaes. Pour people have written.
askin to have their names removed fron the list; and there have
been a few sourrilous lettor. (uat at t is moment a man tele-
phoned and gave me the names and addresses of two people -- one here
and one in Los Angoles -- t whom he wants me to send two copies
of the lest Lasue).
1l. Approximately 300 letters have been written -- responding
to inquiries, requests, eto., etc. in several instances parties
have writton long letters of inquiry. Inasmmoh as these have
seemed to be sineere, a great deal of pains has boen taken to answer
such letters, and to try, at least, to clear up the doubts that much
people have had concernin Japan's position and intentions in
China.
12. Nore than 3,900 individual clippings or news 1toms or
artieles on the Sino-Japanese situation have been read, and later
filed for future reference.
May 24, 1930.
000

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.85)
MEMORANDUM T MH. TAAHASHI
At the present writing, we have 23 porsons on our Anmual
Subsoription roll. Two have come in since our Memorandum of
May 24th. They are as followe:
THREL LAWYERS
r. eorge A. ar, Sen ranciaco
'r. Sheridan Dowmey, Sacramento-San rancisco
r...wooda hinton
POUL AY 
..Cook.
niveralty of California
. L. ulick, r. -
Lehigh niveralty, Sethlehem, Pa.
V. . abasinien,
ills college
Lev. R. T. Feeley,-
University of San Pranolaco
Ir. A. C. heod, -
..Mdical school
Dr. C. L. Leake,
V. C. Medical School
Dr...Andersen,
Am. ed. Aasn. Chicago, Illinois
  CUTIVS
111s
y. xchg. ld., ortland, Oregon
C.. Hp,
Am. walian S.. Co., Chico, Ill.
.S.Mack,
Swayne Moyt, San rancleco
on. tlton Fish (Hew York)
asinon
T CLN
Rev. C.. booms.
St. Paul.Inn
...Jowen.
Seattle, Wash.
ax Schwabacher,
Ser  ranciaco
E. Hetmann
ll Valloy
E. C. Baker.
Walla walla, Wash.
.. Thrane,
Seattle, Wash.
TW WOMLN
s Newton rew,
Lon Island, . Y.
Mrs. ilary Jones,-
Los catos, Calif.
We still have on hand approximately B,400 coples of the Leaflet
(envelope stuffer) "THmY SAY".
May 31, 1938.

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.98)
PERSONAL SERVICES ( OF D. W.R.) Wil1 include
Half of my time, and will cover:
1. Collection end preparation of material, and the writing
of one special Pamphlet each month.
2.
Collection and preparation of material, and the writing
of two special Leaflets each month.
Note: Items 1 and 2 include: (2) the gathering
of the necessary statistics, date, etc.;
(b) the actual writing of the Pamphlets
and the Leaflets; (c) taking complete
charge of the Printing -- which means
reading and correcting all proofs, check-
ing figures, etc., etc.
3.
Taking complete charge of the Mailing of the Special
Pamphlet -- to my own lists and to such lists as are
furnished me; checking such lists for duplications and
correcting the same; handling all mailing matters with
the Post Office.
4。
Taking complete charge of the Mailing of any Pamphlets
written by other persons, and which may be sent out
under the name of the AMERICAN COMMITTEE ON FAR EASTERN
AFFAIRS ( or whatever other name may be finally decided
on). Postage for these pamphlets is not included in this
cost estimate.
5.
Preparation of one Radio Address ( or its equivalent)
each month.
6。
Development of all possible new outlets for the dissemi-
nation of pamphlets, leaflets, etc. For instance, it may
be found possible to arrange for the gratuitous distribu-
tion of those at the meetings of certain luncheon clubs,
women's clubs, college groups, church organizations, and.
certain lectures.
7.
Compilation of a select list of the MOST IMPORTANT editors,
journalists, radio commentators, authors, and columnists --
for future use.
ε.
Negotiations with writers, publicists, radio commentators
(such as Boake Carter, or instance) concerning possible
use of their writings, comments, etc.
9.
Getting magazine Articles, and Newspaper Articles (such as
my series on Housing now running in the S.F.NEwS) published
wherever possible. However, it will be impossible to do
much under this Item without first going East and talking
directly with Eaitors in New York, Boston, Philadelphia and
Chicago -- mainly New York. This kind of work cannot be
done through correspondence. Personal contact and nogotia-
tions with Editors and Publishers is absolutely necessary.
10. Regular consultation and Advice on ALL matters pertaining
to the Educational Campaign.

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY ---
DAVID WARREN RYDER
447 Sutter Street
San Francis co, California
OUTIHT F CARER AND EXPERETNCE OF
David Warren Ryder
Born:
California, 1892
Education: Public Schools and Private Tutors.
EXPERIENCE:
1917-- 1921: Journalism; HdiLorial and Publicity Work.
During part of 1920 end of 1921, did special Educational and Pub-
licity work for Japanese Organizations here (San Francisco) and in
Seattle. While on the Seattle assignment, went to Helena, Montana,
and succeeded in inducing the State Senate to defeat an anti-Japanese
land bill which had already rassed the Lower House. Wrote numerous
magazine and newspaper articles setting forth the true facts con-
cerning the Japane e situation. One of these articles, (appearing
in THE NORTH AN ERICAN REVDEW) was characterized by George Harvey,
late Ambassador to Grest Britain, as the fairest article he had ever
seen on the subject.
April 1922 to April 1926: ublicity Director of the In-
dustrial Association of San Francisco.
For years in Sen Francisco the building industry had been
completely "closed shor," and conditions had become so bad that
building wes almost at a standstill. Futhermore, San Francisco was
known everywhere as a union-dominated community. The Industrial
Association of San Francis co wes orgenized to change this situation;

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.98)
2.
and the objeot of my work as Publicity Director was to make known
to the whole country that San Francisco was no longer a union-rulod
city; that the building trades unions were no longer able to en-
force the closed sho , and that non-union men could agein work in
San Francisco. The resolution of the Board of Directors of the
Industrial Association testifies to !e manner in which this work was
carried out by me.
May 1926 to November 1927: A wide variety of Journalistic,
Publicity and Editorial work.
December 1927 to April 1937: Director of Publicity; Manager
of Traffic Development Department; and exocutive Assistant for
American-Hawaiian Steamship Company. This work embraced the handling
of all forms of publicity and advertising; including Industrial
Motion Pictures and a Company ma azine.
Since Mey 1937: Journalism, ublicity, Advertising: Ad-
vertising and Publicity Counsel and Advice; Special Editorial Work.
Besides all of the above, I lave carried on a good deal of
part-time work. In 1922 and 1923, I edited the S N FRANCI3C0 REVIEW,
e literary publicetion. In 1926 and art of 1927, I edited two trade
periodicals, and did special Editorial Tork for The Ar onaut, then
owned by two friends of mine who have since died. In 1934, 1935
and 1936, I was Contributing Editor of Co VoY and NEW DErOCACY
(N. Y.); and since 1935 I have been one of the Contributing Editors
of THE NE CLISH  KLY (London), and, since 1936, one of its two
American Representatives.
Among the principal publications for which I ave written are

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.97)
3.
NORTH AMERICAN REVIEW:
AMERICAN LERCURY:
WORLD'S WORK: THE FREEMAN:
HARPER'S: THE NATION:
PIE NE REPUBLIC:
THE NEV FREEMAN: COLLIER'S:
PLA IN PALY: CENTURY:
THE LIVINC AGE: REV IE: OF REVIEWS:
CURRENT
FISTORY:
THE RE DER LIGEST: MCNA GIT S; and the SPRINGFIELD RE-
PUB LICAN, CI IC GO PRIBUNE, B LTIMORE SUN, BOSTON TRANSCRIPT, NEW YORK
TIMES, NET YORE ORLD, NE YORE MRALL TRIBUNE, NE YORK EVENING
POST, LONDON S ECTATOR, CLRIST IAN SCLHRCE NIPOR, THE ARGONAUP, THE
NE ENGLISH WEEKLY, NE DO CY, N F HCISCO NETS: and a larg
number of smaller publications and periodicals, including the Southam
Chain of Cenadian newspapers; as well as
nerous trade and business
publications. A number of my articles and essays were translated into
German and published in Germany. Several erticles and one story have
been reprinted in READERs LIGET -- one of them, eight years after its
original publication.
I attech a copy of a statement concerning me by George Harvey.
I also attech a copy of the letter and of the Resolutions of the Board
of Directors of the Industrial /ssociation of Sen Francisco.
December 7, 1937
(signed)
David Warren Ryder

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY ---
From HARVEY'S WELKLY, for January 1, 1921.
By George Harvey
(Late Ambassador to England)
There is nothing more necessary for the right solution of any
problem, be it in mathematics or in statecraft, than an acourate state-
ment of its terms end conditions. You may work until the cows come
home over a problem relsting to a triangle without making the slightest
progress if you do not know whether the triangle is right angled or
equilateral. So men night wrangle until the creck of doom over the
Japanese question in Californie and "get no forrader" if they did not
know what the facts were in the csse. And we cannot help thinking that
many of those who tear passion to tett rs over it both pro and contra
have not an accurate and compre ensive inoledge of the facts.
That must be so unless we are to adopt a much more unpleasant
hyrothesis because of the widely v ryin atatenents of alleged facts
which are made. We have seen some statements of great importance
made which were so directly c ntradictory of each other that one of
them must necessarily have been ontirely false. e have seen others
made which so ingeniously resented only   art of the truth as to be
wholly and mischievously misleading.
It is through such presentations
that passions and rejudices are inflamed, and that right settlement
of the controversy is delayed and made  more difficult.
Beceuse of such utterances, we must regard as especial
gratification such an article as that on "The Japanese and the Pacific
Const"
by Mr. D. W. Ryder in the North American Review for January.
Himself a resident
of California and a close student of
affairs, Mr. Ryder writes with amplitude of nowledge of the facts,
and he employs that knowledge with fine impartielity. He is himself

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
2.
what might be called pro-Japanese. At least he does not sympathize
with the rabid anti-Japanese agitators. But he sets forth the
essential facts on both sides of the case with admirable impartial-
ity, and does more toward effecting a solution of the problem in one
brief article than partisan propagandists could do in multitudinous
reams of rhetorical ranting.
When he turns from statements of fact to
expressions of opinion, or to suggestions of policy, he loses nothing
in interest or value. It is a particularly pertinent and pithy ob-
servetion which he offers at the  ne of the article, to the effect that
the obiection which is made to the Je anese that they do not assimilate
and become Americanized, is illogical because we persistently deny
them the onportunity of doin the very thin: which we thus blame them
for not doing:
"We cannot reasonably expect to make good citizens of
individuals unless we give them tho fullest opportunity and
encouragement to become such. We cannot reasonably expect the
Jepanese -- or any other alion race -- to become real Americans,
to develop an abiding devotion to our ideals, a healthy loyalty
to our institutions, unless we give them the right to claim and
hold those ideals and institutions as their own."
It is in the spirit thet r. Ryder addresses himself to the
subject. It is a helpful spirit, intentionally & d practically, and
it is accompanied with e rost el ful statement of rertinent and
illuminating facts. V.  NO UFERANC ON PI SUBJMCT MORE
LORTHY OF ALERIC/N CITIZENSHIP N ANY LORE CHRTA INLY CALCULATED TO
A ID IN PH RUACHILG F  SOLUTION OF PHE ROBLEM P ICH ILL BE HONOUR-
ABLE AID PROFITABLL O POTH OF PEE DIS UTING COUNTRIES.

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY ---
INLUSTRI:L ASOC LAT ION OF SAN FRANC ISCO
Santa Fe Building
San Francisco, California
May 18th, 1926
Mr. arren Ryder
Mill Valley, California
Dear Mr. Ryder,
Enclosed you will find for your files
two certified copies of the Preambles end Resclutions
adopted by the Board of Director: of the Industrial Asso-
ciation, ruesday, ril 13t:, 192.
These resolutions mey be of interest to you.
They express, I em sure, the very friendly feeling which ell
of the Directors entertein for you ersonelly as well as appre-
ciation for your pood worl es ublicity birector of the Asso-
cistion.
Sincerely yours,
(Signed)
ALBERT E. BOYNTON
Managing Director
AEB: VC
(For Sound Industrial Relations)

=== Page 116 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY ---
CERTIFIED COPY OF R SOLUTIONS
WHEREAS, David Warren Ryder became Publicity Direotor
of the Industrial Association on April 12th, 1922, and served
in such cepacity until April 1, 1926, and
"EREAs, during the course of his employment he loyally
and conscientiously served the Industrial Association and se-
cured as the result of his efforts wide spread publicity in
Eastern newspapers and magazines relative to the work of the
Association, and
WHEREAS, his service have at all times been highly con-
structive and has served to advance the interests of the Asso-
ciation:
NOW, PIEREFORE, BE F ROLVED that the Board of
Directors of the Industrial ssociation at a regular meeting
held on April 13, 1926, accepts with regret the resignation
of Mr. Ryder as Publicity Director and hereby tenders to him
its thanks and appreciation for the splendid work which he has
done during his four years of service with the Association;
and
BE IT FuRTin Rs LV D, that a copy of these resolutions
be spread upon the minutes of this meeting, and also forwarded
to Er. Ryder.
I hereby certify that the foregoing Preambles and
Resolutions were unanimously adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Industrial Association of San Francisco at the regular
meeting of the Board held Tuesday, April 13th, 1926.
(Signed) LBHRT . Bo YNTON
Managing Director.

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
DAVID WARREN RYDER
447 Sutter Street
San Franciseo, California
ROUGH OUTLINE OF PROPOSALS REGARDING NEWSPAPERS,
MAGAZINES, BUSINESS AND TRADE PUBLICATIONS.
This is a very large and important field of endeavor. The
American people are great newspapers and magazine readers. Conse-
quently, this is a very fruitful field. During the past fiftem years,
we have written for a great many of the leading publications, and
therefore know how to approaoh and carry on this kind of work.
We give, below, a rough outline of how this work would be
handlod:
I. THE HEARST PUBLICATIONS
Although in the past the Hearst newspapers have been noto-
riously antagonistio to Japan's point of view, it does not necessarily
follow that they cannot be persuaded to be helpful in this campaign --
along certain lines. It seems rather certain that most of the past
antagoniam was more for sensatiomalism to gain circulation than any-
thing else. The "Yellow Peril" sounded sufficiently oxciting and
dangerous to entiwe a large number of people to buy his papers.
However, Mr. Hearst is very adept at changing his mind and
his policy, and there is a good reason to believe that he now regards
the RED PERIL -- Communism -- with much more abhorrence and fear than
the so-called "Yellow Peril". Consequently, if he could be shown --
as seems quite possible -- that Japan is an effective instrument in
checking the spread of Communism, he might well use/his papers
articles describing the part Japan is playing in that regard. These
articles would reach many millions of readers and, it goes without
saying, would be very valumble in the campaign. And if Mr. Hearst

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
-8
were persuaded to use such a series in his many newspapers, he un-
doubtedly would be willing to publish articles of a similar nature
in varipus of his mumerous magasines, which likewise have an aggregate
ciroulation of several millions.
Being acquainted with some of Mr. Hoarst's chief lioutenants,
we could arrange to see him, and would do so as soon as possible, and
lay the matter before him in the proper way. And while we cannot,
of course, guarantee to enlist his support; the chances of doing so
seem favourable, for the very cogent reason that his publication of
the kind of materiel we have outlined would serve his own purpose at
the present time.
II. SCRIPPS-HOWARD PUBLICATIONS
The next largest chain of newspapers is the Scripps-Howard
chain. These papers have never been antagonistic to Japan, except
that at times they have editorially condemned what they regarded as
imperialistic actions on Japan's part. They are at present sympathetio
with China, but they beliove very thoroughly in PRE ENTING BOTH SIDES
OF EVERY CASE IN THEIR NEWS COLUMNS. For instance, in 1928 they ed1-
torially supported Hoover for President, but in their news colums they
gave equal space to A1 Smith. Again in 1932 and 1936, though they
editorially supported Roosevelt, they gave equal news space to Hoover
and Landon
In view of this policy, we feel confident that the Soripps-
Howard papers -- there are 26 of thom in the U.S.A., with a total cir-
culation running into the millions -- could be persuaded to publish a
series of articles setting forth Japan's side of the case and her
point of view. We have written for these papers, and know the man
who have the "say" in such matters. (Three years ago, we wrote a
series.which was so widely discussed that thousands of reprints were

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
made,and the series was later republished in the largest chain of
newspapers in Canada). We would go to Cloveland and lay the matter
before the Editor-in-Chief, and are confident that we could arrange
for the publication of such articles.
III. OTHER IMPORTANT NEWSPAPERS.
After having disposed of the two great newspapers chains --
Hearst and Scripps-Howard -- we would then begin our activities with
the various important individual newspapers. For many years we have
written for the Baltimore SUN, which is one of the mest influential
newspapers in America; and have every reason to believe that we could
get a series of articles setting forth Japan's side of the case and
hor point of view, etc., in the SUN.
Wo have also written at intervals for the Chicago TRIBUNk,
the Christian Seience MONITOR, the Spr ingfield REPUBLICAN, Boston
TRANSCRIPT, Philadelphia ENQUIRER, and various other leading paperss
and we bolieve that by renewing our contacts with the editors or
publishers, we would be able to secure the publication of articles
in these papers. And besides these, we would undertake to place arti-
cles with such others as the NEW YORK TIMES, N. Y. Herald-TRIBUNE, St.
Louis POST-DISPATCH, Detroit FREE PRESS, and at least one newspaper in
every other large city in the U.S.A. We have not written for these
papers, but bhrough friends, acquaintances or other conneotions, we
would establish contact with the editors or publiahers of many of
them. In other cases, we would work through the Chember of Commeree
or Trade Association in the City in which the newspapers was located,
and also through some of its larger advertisers.
IV. CATHOLIC PUBLICATIONS
Although the religious newspapers as a whole are not ranked
as high as the secular press, the Catholic publications are an exceptie

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.98)
-4-
to this rule. They are widely read and very influential among the vast
Catholic population of the U.s.A. And while their content is primmrily
religious, or of a religious flavor, their deep-seated and unflagging
Opposition to Communism, makes it seem very likely that they would
open their coluwms to matter showing the part Japan is playing as a
formidable barrier botween Russia and an inoreasingly Communized
China.
Consequently, as soon as practicable, we would canvas the
various important Catholic editors and publishers, with a view to
getting their support along this line.
V. MAGAZINES
While the magazines of Amerie do not, of course, reach'
anything like as many people as the newspapers, they have a large collee-
tive audience and wield and important influence; particularly among
the more thoughtIul people. We would plan to negotiate with the
leading magazines, one by one; using various methods of seouring
consideretion from their rospective editors or publishers. For
instance, we are acquainted with the editor-in-chief of the second
largest weekly magazine in Americe -- who is e close friend of an old
friend of ours. We elso are acquainted with one of the Associate
Editors of the largest weekly magasines -- who happens to be a friend
of another close friend of ours. We would entrust negotiations to letter
but would see these men personally and discuss the matter with them
across their desks.
We slso know, or have contact with editors, associete
editors, publishds or publishers respresentatives of such magazines
as Harpers, the Forum, Survey Graphic, American Mercury, Time, For-
tune, Life, News-Week, New Republic, Nation, New English Weekly,
Current History, and various others.

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.98)
-5-
VI. BUSINESS AND TRADE PUBLICATIONS
After the regular magasines, come the numerous Business
ind Trade publications. With many of these we have been in contaet
at various times during the past ten years; and we would anticipate
no particular difficulty in securing fevorable consideration from
a majority of these; beginn ing with the ,NATION'S BUSINESS, WITH
whose editor we are on friendly terms.
Taken together -- Nowspapers, Magazines,and Business and
Trade publications -- this is a large and enormously important
field. In the aggregate, these publications reach at least three-
quarters of the population of the U.S.A., and we feel confident
that in the caurse of time we would be able to secure favorablo
u
action from more thasn a mejority of them. This would mean gotting
our message before at least fifty million, and possibly as many as
seventy million readers. Thus, even if nothing else were done,
this would be an exceedingly extensive and valuable educational
accomplishment.
D.W.R.
San Francisco
November 12, 1937.

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.97)
fill
DCIR
ADDRESS OFFIGSAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON 25, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF PROTECTIVE SERVICES
Sept. 10, 1947
To
:
Mr. W. F. Chappell - DS
105501
  t   
From
:
K. Okami DS, Former Japanese Embassy in Custody
of the Dept. of State
Subject
List of names(Americans)appearing in official
account-books(Secret Service Fund)of the Imperial
Japanese Consulate in New York City.
Submitted herewith is a list of names of Americans
who worked secretly for the Japanese Government,
894.20211/9-1047
9/24/49
Japanese Consulate in New York City prior to the
outbreak of the war. As the list indicates, these
people received quite a generous compensation regu-
larly. These names have been abstracted from two
official account-books in the New York files of the
Former Japanese Embassy.
Account-book No. 1
1939-
Expense for Investigation
of Communists in the U.S.,
File No. N.Y.-1-1-9
Secret Funds.
Account-book No. 2
1940-1941
Secret Service Funds
File No. N.Y.-1-1-7
It may be difficult to identify these persons on
C
the list, as there ere very few names which bear
Confidential File
894.20211
first and middle initials. Taking this into
CS/H
consideration, a complete search was made among
other documents from New York Consulate in an at-
tempt to further identify these names. Unfortu-
nately however, only a few persons with full names
have been found.
D/R
An
Rev.
Cat_

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
ADDRESS OFFICIAL ÇOMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SECRETARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON 2S, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
DIVISION OF PROTECTIVE SERVICES
As to the translated explanations, the purposes
for which expenses were paid to these people, may
seem to be rather insufficient and ambiguous.
The reason for this is that the original explanations
in Japanese are in such an abbreviated form that no
one but the criginal Japanese book-keepers would
understand the full meanings and details of the summary.
It should be noted that the list is by no means
complete but only covers the actual payments made during
the period of April 1st. to Oct. 13th, 1939 in account-
book No. 1, and from April 1st. to July 30th, 1940 in
account-book No. 2 with an edditional account for extra
Secret Funds from April 2nd. to Sept. 1st., 1940 and
Consular Inagaki's Secret Funds from Jan. Ist. to March
114th, 1941.
The names appearing in tho remaining pages of the books
are practically the same as those shown in the above-
mentioned list. In other words, the remaining parts
are simply a continuation of the information given in this
list.Therefore, it is felt that further listing of
the names is unnecessary.
Remarks
It might be interesting to note that the name of a
member of Dies Committee, S.W. Burmingham is shown
in account-book No. 1.
He received 500 on two
different occasions making a total of looo.
Continued on next page
(2)
To
: Mr. Chappell - DS
From
: K. Okami - DS

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COMMUNICATIONS TO
THE SICRITARY OF STATE
WASHINGTON 2S, D. C.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WASHINGTON
DIVISION CF PROTECTIVE SERVICES
The following names have been found in the San
Francisco Files(in a document marked"Secret")
of the Former Japanese Embassy.
(There are sufficient indications that all
of these people acted as propaganda agents
for the Jepanese Covernment)
David Warren Ryder (writer)
Refer to memo.
l17 Sutter St. San Francisco, Calif.
on June 4, 16,
1947 to Hibbard
Ralph Townsend (radio commentator)
Station K Y A, San Francisco, Calif.
Alfred Katz (lecturer)
San Francisco, Calif. (address unknown)
Frederick V. Williams (lecturer)
Sen Francisco, Calif.(
(address unknown)
E. G. White (lecturer)
San Francisco, Calif.
(address unlnown)
(3)
To : Mr. Chappel1 - DS
From: K. Okami - DS

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.96)
CONFIDENTIAL
1.
SECRET
EXPENSE FOR INVESTIGATION OF
COMMUNISTS
(Name List
of Americans)
Japanese Consulate General, New York City
( - 1939 - )
Account-book No. 1
Sept. 11, 1947
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
4/1, 1939
walsh
300
Compensation for April
4/4
11
Edmonde
75
2nd - 9th, Apri1
11/5
11
wright
50
Compensation for April
4/6
11
Garren
150
11
11
4/7
11
Edmonde
75
10th - 17th, Apr11
4/10
11
Matheson
220
Compensation for April
4/11
il
wright
50
In connection with Dies
Committee. Travel expen. to
Lash., D.C.
4/13
11
wright
30
For receiving information in
Wash., D.C.
4/14
11
wright
400
Compensation & travel expen.
4/17
11
Edmonde
75
17th - 24.th, Apri1
14/18
11
v.right
50
In connection with Dies Comm.
4/24
li
Edmonde
75
21:th - May 1st.
14/26
1
wright
50
Extra compensation
5/2
11
walsh
300
Compensation for May
ii
Garren
150
11
11
11
5/3
11
wright
100
In connection with Dies Comm.
5/14
li
Matheson
220
Componsation and rent
11 11
11
Edmonde
75
1st - 7th, May
5/6
11
Edmonde
75
7th - 14th, "
5/12
li
Wright
50
Compensation for May
11 1
1
Edmonde
75
14th - 21st, May
5/22
11
Edmonde
75
22nd - 29th, May
5/25
Garren
20
Extra compensation
5/26
11
Edmondo
75
May 29th - June 4th
5/29
Wright
75
Compensation for June
To
: Mr. Chappell - DS
From : K. Okami - DS

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.95)
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
5/30, 1939
Matheson
225
Compensation and rent for
June
6/1
11
Garren
150
11
for Juné
6.65
11
Walsh
300
1
11
11
11 11
11
Edmonde
75
4th - 11th, June
6/7
1I
Matheson
75
For translation(Russian
(Amtorg documents)
6/12
11
Edmonde
75
12th - 19th, June
6/19
il
Edmonde
75
19th - 16th, June
6/23
11
(S.W.)Burmingham
500
Dies
Committee,
Chief of
New
York
Branch.
Money was
given to him through Wright
6/24
11
Garren
20
For gathering materials on
Russian Embassy
6/26
11
Edmonde
75
26th- 3rd, July
6/30
li
Edmonde
75
3rd - 10th, July
7/1
ii
Matheson
220
Compensation and
rent
for
July
7/3
11
walsh
300
Compensation for
July
 11
11
Carren
170
1i
11
11
11
11
fright
50
11
11
ii
7/7
11
Edmonde
75
9th - 16th, July
7/12
11
Edmonde
30
16th - 23rd,
11
7/11
te
Edmonde
45
li
11
11
7/18
1:
Edmonde
75
23rd - 30th,
11
7/29
11
Edmonde
75
31st - 6th, August
7/31
it
wright
50
Compensation for August
8/2
11
Matheson
220
11
and rent for Aug.
it
11
Garren
170
11
for August
8/3
11
walsh
300
11
11
11
8/4
11
Edmonde
75
7th - 13th, August
8/10
11
wright
300
In connection with Dies Comm.
8/11
11
Edmonde
75
14th - 20th, August
8/15
11
Edmonde
75
21st - 27th,
11
8/18
11
Wright
70
In connection with Dies Comm.
Travel expense to Wash., D.C.
8/22
11
Edmonde
500
Resignation Bonus
8/25
11
Garren
170
Extra compensation
8/30
Matheson
220
Compensation and rent for
September
(2)

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.91)
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
8/30, 1939
Wright
100
Compensation for September
8/31
11
Garren
170
11
9/5
Walsh
300
11
11
11
9/27
1
Gerren
50
Extra compensation
1" "
II
S...Burmingham,
500
Bonus - handed to Wright
11 11
11
wright
70
Extra compensation
10/2
11
walsh
300
Compensation for Oct.
11 11
11
Wright
100
11
11
11
11 1i
11
Garren
170
17
11
11
10/13
11
Matheson
220
11
18
11
Remarks:
Concerning the spelling of the name Garren, it appears
on book No.1 as Garren, and cn book No.2 as Garron.
Therefore, they are put down just as the original books
show.

=== Page 128 === (confidence 0.90)
2.
SECRET SERVICE FUNDS
(Name list of Americans)
Japanese Consulate General, New York City
(1940-1941)
Account-book No. 2
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
4/1,1940
Read, Arthur
$500
For
lecture tour(May)
11
Matheson
550
11
11
1I
(April)
11
11
Smyth, Patrick
250
11
11
11
11
11
Garron
170
11
11
11
11
19
11
Smyth, Patrick
335
11
11
11
11
11
Ripperger, H.L.
650
For Library on Wheels
11 11
11
williams
1,200
From $4,200(for Apr11)
World Review
4/4
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap.-American Times
4/5
11
Williams
1,500
(From $4,200(for Apr11)
(World Review
1" 11
11
Manheimea
125
Salary for typist
4/8
11
Colton, Wendell 2,500
Assisting expense, up to
Apri1 15, 1940
11 11
il
Bate, Don
309.90
For lecture(March)
4/10
11
Ripperger, H.I.
629.02
For Library on Wheels
4/11
1i
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap.-American Times
4/15
18
Williams
1,50
From $4,200(for Apri1)
World Review
4/16
1
Williams
700
1i
11
1i
11
11
11
11 11
11
Charles, H.
397.98
Jap.-American Times
For photographs(Feb.)
11 11
11
Charles, H.
411.18
18
11
11
1
il
11
11 11
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
300.
Jap-American Times
4/27
11
Smyth, Patrick
335
Compensation for May
5/1
11
Read, Arthur
500
11
11
11
11 11
11
williams
2,700
For World Review
11
11
Garron
170
Compensation for May
II
11
Matheson
550
11
11
11
11
11
Smyth, Patrick
250
11
11
88
11
11
Cains (Dr.)
200
11
11
April
To
: Mr. Chappell - DS
From : K. Okami- DS

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.92)
●
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
5/1, 1940
Ripperger, H.L.
650
Compensation for April
5/3.
11
Manheimea
125
May
5/4
1i
Bate, Don
307.14
For lecture(April)
5/9
li
Ripperger, H.L.
279.45
For remodeling Library
on Wheels
11
11
Colton, Wendell P.818.39
Various propaganda expen.
from Jan. to March
11
11
11
Colton, wendell 1,7444.22
11
11
11
11
11
n n
11
Colton, Wendell 2,500
Assisting expen. for one
month, up to May, 15 '40
5/12
11
Williams
1,400
World Review(May)
5/14
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap-American Times
5/18
11
Ripperger, H.L.
1450
For Library on Wheels
5/23
11
Smyth, Patrick
1,675
For trip to Orient from
May to Sept.
5/27
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
651.70
Jap-Amorican Times
1" 1
12
La Claire, John
200 (N.Y.U.Prof)Propaganda expen. for
Cen. & South America
il
11
11
Wright
200
11
11
11
11
11
May
if
il
La Claire, John
200
11
11
11
11
11
11
11
5/28
11
walsh
1140
For trip to Wash., D.,C.
11 11
11
Williams
1,600
World Review(June)
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap-American Times
6/3
11
Ripperger, H.I. 1,300
For Library on Wheels
11
Read, Arthur
500
Compensation for July
i 1
11
Methoson
550
1
11
June
11
11
Smyth, Patrick
250
11
11
11
11
11
11
Wright
200
11
11
11
11
i1
Garron
170
11
11
11
11
1
Ia Claire, John
2148
l
11
1
6/4.
11
Manheimea
125
11
11
n
6/5
11
Bate, Don
298.10
For lecture
11
Read, Arthur
200
Partial expen. for his
trip to Orient(1)
6/8
11
Colton, Wendell 2,500
Assisting expen. from
May 15 to June 15
11
11
17
Eysser, I (Miss)
650.59
Jap-American Times
11
Perkins
400
The first payment
(2)

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.93)
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
6/17, 1940
Read, Arthur
$100
Partial expense for
trip to Orient
6/21
Read, Arthur
150
18
18
11
" "
Cains (Dr.)
175
For lecture
6/25
Lunt, Carrol
388
Boat-faxre
to Japan
(N.Y.K.)
" "
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
634.69
Jap-American Times
n "
II
Lunt, Carrol
300
For trip to Japan
" "
11
Wright
30
Investigation of commu-
nists
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap-American Times
6/28
it
Matheson
40
Trip to Wash., D.C.
11 11
11
Read, Arthur
2,350
Last payment for his
trip to Japan(Orient)
7/2
1I
Garron
175
Compensation for July
11 11
11
wright
200
1t
11
11
11
Matheson
550
11
11 11
11
Smyth, Patrick
250
11
11
11
11
Bate, Don
940
Assisting expense
11 1
Bate, Don
464.40
Compensation for June
and July
1 
11
Ripperger, H.L.
130
Compensation for July
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
627.24
Jap-American Times
7/8
11
Perkins
458.55
Travel expense
11 11
11
Colton, Wendell
2,500
Assisting expense up to
July 15
11 11
11
Colton, Wendell
480.98
11
1i
11 1
June
1" "
11
Smyth, Patrick
250
Special assisting expense
7/9
11
Perkins
48.80
For trip to Boston
7/10
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap-American Times
7/13
11
Williams
300
Partial payment from
assisting expense
7617
11
wright
200
Compensation for Aug.
7/18
11
Perkins
185
Partial payment for trip
to Japan
7/20
11
Williams
600
Partial payment from
assisting expense
11 11
11
Smyth, Patrick
500
Compensation for July &
Aug.
" 1"
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
643.64
Jap-American Times
111
11
Garron
50
frravel expense to Wash.,
D.C.
7/23
11
Eysser, I (Miss)
300
Jap-American Times
7/24
Perkins
341.50
Travel expense to Japan
7/30
11
Manheimoa
125
Compensation for July
(3)

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.93)
EXTRA
SECRET SERVICE FUNDS
1940
Account-book No. 2
Date
Name
Compensation
Purpose
4/2,1940
ward and Walsh
$1,300
Compensation for both,
(April
5/1
11
Ward and walsh
1,300
11
1I
May
5/28
11
ward and walsh
1,300
Jnue
7/2
11
Ward and Walsh
1,300
If
n
July
8/1
11
ward and walsh
1,300
11
11
August
9/1
11
Ward and Walsh
1,300
11
11
11
September
Consular
Inagaki's(Jap. Consulate
in
S.F.) Secret Service
Funds
(1941)
1/1, 1941
Garron
$180
Compensation for Jan.
1/4
11
ward
500
11
11
11
11 11
11
ward
800
For Anti-British Propa-
ganda(pamphlets)
1/13
11
wright
200
Compensation for Feb.
1/20
11
wright
100
Travol expen. to Wash.,
D.C.
2/3
11
Garron
200
Compensation for Feb.
11 11
i
ward
500
tr
11
11
2/6
11
wright
200
11
11
March
3/1
11
Garron
200
11
11
" "
11
Wright
200
11
11
April
3/6
11
wright
100
Travel expen. to
Wash.,
D.C.
3/14
i
Garron
30
11
11
11
11
" 1
18
ward
500
Compensation for March
(4)

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.87)
OFFICE OF
TAITD
EUROFEAN AFFAIRS
MESSAGE CENTER
FLL
896
APR 8 10 29 AM 1948
F.: LOSCoW
Rue
.T: march 30, 1948
LLoP. TUnLu: April 1; 1948
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
': Apr. 7, 1948 8:55 AM
3
D
Secretary of sta
ACTION EUR
ashington
J
INPO
BC/R
FE
FC
 . ch 21, curricu 2-1/2 column review of
buk pes Lonee in merica" by lan Hynd. Rotin
P
OIE
t.t le oox  bn ise in ussian, the reviover
OCD
she Sollo
, lnte euti stcmcats and alle ations:
894.20211/3-3048
CIA
XR
"T
(ilyna prooout, tho matter in such a
pane tcree ac inations in the
uld v e least cuccess lud it not
111.008
boon For or
ftne of vhe t tutc epurtment.
The tteromen. for eke. ple, oustruceteu the
curr in o: f the icceusary mct surcs uguinst
such ell 1 m Jp  st pi as  iyusaki (p. S).
onon o (.1). Delin. ith the t. te
uepe t ent': irect t lertior of tascist upents
rynd ti.l passes ver the in ortant question in
sile ce
xe
nver in uh dnd uoe vs pars or un "eapllucory"
120
orices fuvt er fro. the truth uvout the
ress us 1 din  to le r) saroos. tie reviev claims tlut
te wook. leo re. 1s thes tie Fbl freely infringed all of
"tr so-e lieu  rican reeuc s" in currying out its
fur ucons
in ud lition, tne ar lcle soates:
"The Di Lomatic ervice und the Jonsular uffices
of the bon wire vidtty involved in invelli ence work.
This work o. foreign territory, in this case in Jupan,
was vuite elfecuive ... The possibilitics or arerican
intelligence in Japan cun be jud ed by the f ct t.ut
inisser of orein ifeirs, .atsuoka."
PR 14 1948
In conclusion, the poviewer st tes:
STAICTD

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.92)
心
TRIOTLU
-2- A-315, 1.arch 30, 1948
"This book vill, vithout doubt, benefit
the soviet reader and extend his knowledge of the
methods und cnaracter of the subversive activity
of foreign intelligence ugents."
The publicity ufforded lnis book and its uulication in
the oviet Union obviously constitute part of tne ourrent
cumpaign to estublish firmly in the minds of both Cossunist
adnereits and passive absorbers of Comnuniut propaganda the
picture of mericun bassies as acsts of reactionary, fuscist
conspirutors, the picture hicn has veen snown so effectively
in Jzecliosluvukia and tie other sutellites, and which is
pparently scheduled for showiug in inland.
1l'H
TIreland:ce
