894.543 Intellectual And Industrial Property. Applications For Patents And Copyrights, Registration Of Particular Trade Marks, And Contests Arising Therefrom Are Arranged Alphabetically Under The Respective Numbers., Trade-Marks. Trade Name (File 954)
ID: 894.543-954   Pages: 153   OCR: PaddleOCR (machine OCR, uncorrected)
Page images: https://archive.org/details/japan-internal-affairs-894.543-intellectual-and-industrial-4
Records of the Department of State Relating to Internal Affairs of Japan, 1930-1949 (decimal file 894, RG 59). Public domain.

=== Page 1 === (confidence 0.96)
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BUREAU OF FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC COMMERCE
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENTOF
June 2, 1937
August 7 1957
Hon. Wilbur J. Carr,
25-JLB
Assistant Seoretary of State,
IN REPLY REFER TO
Department of State,
Washington, D. C.
Att:A-C/C
PTASTLIN AFFAIRS
Subject:
Difficulties of Parker Pen Company
In Japan
Dear Mr. Carr:
Reference is made to informal disoussions between
C.
94.543
officers of the Department of State and thi's Bureau relative
to the request of the Parker Pen Company for assistanoe in
oertain patent and trade mark difficulties with the Japanese
Patent Office.
4
In accordance with your suggestions, we submitted
this matter to the United States Patent Office, although re-
PARKER/I
alizing in advance that the Commissioner of Patents could
consider the matter only upon the face of the records before
him and could not take notice of the latent and intangible
factors which weigh against the efforts of this and other si-
milarly situated American companies to develop a Far Eastern
market for their products. His letter is attached for your
information.
Therefore, despite the view necessarily expressed
2
by the Patent Office, it is felt that the adverse decisions
of the Japanese Patent Office seriously obstruct the promotion
of the foreign trade of the Parker Pen Company and, accordingly,
this Government should render every aid possible in the premises.
The unfortunate side to this controversy is that not
only does the failure of this company to obtain proteotion in
Japan for its inventions and trade marks virtually close the
AG -197
Japanese market to it, but also it results in serious loss of
trade in other markets into which Japanese-made produots which
unblushingly simulate those made by the Parker Pen Company
steadily infiltrate in such a manner that although the American
2
F
G

=== Page 2 === (confidence 0.97)
- 2 -
company may have obtained ample industrial property rights
in such other markets, even the most constant and assiduous
policing of the market cannot discourage the unfair competi-
tion emanating from these Japanese sources.
Only the closest cooperation between the Japanese
and American Governments can serve to eliminate completely
a notorious situation which can only be controlled effectively
at the source of the trouble. It is believed that the Japanese
authorities generally have been disposed always to recognize
and advance this necessity, and the present case offers a good
opportunity for inviting the friendly attention of those auth-
orities to one important phase of the general problem.
There is herewith enolosed memoranda prepared by
Ivan D. Tefft, Patent Counsel for the Parker Pen Company, with
regard to Japanese patent applications No. 12149 and No. 9319,
and opposition to the registration of the trade marks "Park"
and "Park Minor" which are accompanied by exhibits and speci-
mens of advertising, catalogs, and fountain pens. These are
forwarded for your information in determining whether the De-
partment of State may render appropriate assistance to the
Parker Pen Company in the light of what has been said above.
Very truly yours,
Zre, Spf
Lacey C Zapf,
Liaison Officer.
Inolosure 82613

=== Page 3 === (confidence 0.99)
ONLY
NER OF PATENTS
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE
WASHINGTON
M
May 21, 1937.
Dr. Alexander V. Dye,
Director, Bureau of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce,
Washington, D. C.
My dear Mr. Director:
I have your letter and memorandum of May 12,
1937 relating to the decisions of the Japanese Patent
Office in certain patent and trade-mark cases filed in
Japan by the Parker Pen Company of Janesville, Wisconsin.
The briefs and exhibits submitted by the Parker Pen
Company indicate that the protest is based upon decisions
rendered by the Japanese Patent Office in two patent
applications and one trade-mark application. The first
objection relates to an application for patent on a foun-
tain pen filling device which corresponds to United
States Patent to Tefft, 1,980,508; the second relates to
an application for patent on a fountain pen and other
marking means corresponding to United States patent to
Crowell, 1,989,351, and the third alleged complaint arises
from the action of the Japanese Patent Office in admitting
for registration the trade-mark "Park" and "Park Minor" in
the face of the opposition of the Parker Pen Company based
upon its use and ownership of the name "Parker."
Japan and the United States are members of the
International Convention for the Protection of Industrial
Property. Article 2 of the Convention contains the
following provision:
Nationals of each of the contracting coun-
tries shall, in all other countries of the Union,
as regards the protection of industrial property,
enjoy the advantages that their respective laws
now grant, or may hereafter grant, to their own
nationals, without any prejudice of the rights
specially provided by the present convention.

=== Page 4 === (confidence 0.99)
-2-
The only ground on which a legitimate protest
could be made by this Government to the Government of
Japan is that the decisions complained about are in
violation of the international obligations of Japan and,
in effect, are discriminating against nationals of the
United States. I find in the present record no evi-
dence to support such a charge. In one of the patent
cases the Japanese Patent Office has withdrawn its re-
jection but an opposition to the grant has been filed
and is still pending. To express an opinion of this
country on a decision which has not yet been rendered
would, in my judgment, be nothing short of 1mpertinence.
We ∞uld ask nothing more than that a fair opportunity
be given to both the applicant and the opposer to pre-
sent their side of the case. There is no evidence that
this has been denied to the applicant, the Parker Pen
Company.
The second patent application has been refused
by the Japanese examiner on the disclosure of certain
prior patents. While the patents relied upon by the
Japanese examiner may not be any more pertinent than
those known to the United States Patent Office and over
which a patent was granted in this country, this fact
alone is of no importance and does not warrant the con-
clusion that the Japanese Patent Office is acting un-
fairly or is discriminating against nationals of this
country. Difference in judgment on the question of
patentability,however acute it may be, is not a ground
for pro test.
Inventions which would be recognized as such
in this country in the light of our patent statutes, our
legal conceptions and our court decisions may or may not
be inventions under the Japanese laws and practices. The
standards of invention and other requirements of the
Japanese Patent Office may be and probably are quite
different from our own.We frequently refuse patents
to our own nationals which they have succeeded in obtain-
ing in most of the countries of the world, the refusal be-
ing based upon our own practices and standards. In some
particulars we are much more strict and in others more
liberal than other nations. Therefore, the fact that
inventions presented to the Japanese Patent Office by the
Parker Pen Company have been patented in other countries,
including the United States, is of no consequence and we
cannot expect the Japanese Patent Office to permit its
judgment to be influenced by this circumstance.

=== Page 5 === (confidence 0.98)
-3-
We are not justified in assuming, in the ab-
sence of evidence, that the Japanese Patent Office
would not reach a similar conclusion with respect to an
application of one of its own citizens.
While, in view of the conclusions expressed
above it does not seem necessary to enter into a detailed
discussion of the several cases, I cannot refrain from
observing that the Parker Pen Company, by its own admis-
sion, does not feel any too secure about the soundness of
its contention in one instance and in another it has not
availed itself of the regular remedial measures afforded
by appeals.
In a letter from the Company to its Japanese
representative (Exhibit A IV) it is submitted:
"The trouble in this case is that the dia-
phragm 19 which takes the place of the
plunger of the Japanese utility model is
also not very novel. The Parker Pen
Company has acquired patents on this dia-
phragm action, and the present action is
merely an improvement on this prior dia-
phragm patent."
In the last paragraph of page 7 of the communi-
cation from the Parker Pen Company, it is specifically
stated that it did not appeal from the final refusal of the
examiner to grant the patent.
In the face of such an admission of weakness in
one case and the failure to avail itself of the opportunity
for review in the other, I am not impressed with the con-
tention that the adverse decisions of the Japanese Patent
Office are founded in prejudice and are discriminating
against citizens of the United States.
7
Sincerely yours,
05
Commissioner.

=== Page 6 === (confidence 0.94)
August 7 1937
894.543
The Remorable
The Seeretary of Commeree.
Refesesee is made to your Department's letter of
PARKE
Jame 2, 1937, in regard to the request of the Parker
tom Gempeny that protest be made to the Geveramest of
Sapen against decisions of the Japamese Patent Office
whieh, 1n respeet of the Company's application for
2
patonts, the Parker Pon Cempany regards as evidence of
#the wmwarrastedly antagenistie atti tude of the Japazese
tatest offiee tesards patent applieatiens besed en in-
to apposttien pressediage flled by the Geepany egainst
F
/AA

=== Page 7 === (confidence 0.93)
The viese of the Parker Pen Gempany are set ferth
in three petitiems, cack of which contains detailed
disemssiens of the teekmieal peints on which the alle-
gatiens of unfairmess of the Japanese Patent Office are
based. When these petitions were informally referred
to this Department fer a prelimimary comsideration of
the questiem whether they could be regarded by this De-
partment as en asseptable basis for diplomatic inquiries
with a vies te ebtaining reconsideration of the desisions
adverse to the Parker Pem Company, this Department in-
fermally expressed the epimion that in view of the teskni-
eal eharacter of the allegatioms of the Gompany 1t was
deeméd advisahle to ascertain whether the techaieal
autherities of the Wmited States censidered that they
afferded a reasenable besis for diseussion with the
Japamess autherities; and that if compotent teohmieal
autherities of this Gevermment were of the opiaien that
the petitiems established reesonable greunds fer cem.
plaint agaimst the Japanese Patent Office, the Department
weald be glad to submit the petitiems and the tesksieal
epánien supperting them to the Ameriean Ambessader to
Japem witn instreetiens to bring them to the attention
of the Poreige ecrice vith e request for reeeesideration
d.

=== Page 8 === (confidence 0.94)
2
It appears frem your Bepartmest's letter that the
petitiens were referred to the Uaited states Cemmissiemer
of Patents fer his examimaties, and his letter express-
ing his views thereen ascempanied your Department's
letter umder acknowledgment. The latter communication
contains the fellowing statements:
"In eeeerdance with your suggestions, we sub-
mitted this matter to the United States Patent
Office, although realising 1n advanee that the Com-
missiemer ef Patents could consider the matter only
upen the faee of the reserds befere him and could
met take motlee of the lateat and intangible fasters
which weigh against the efferts of this and other
similarly situated Ameriean companies te develop a
Far Easterm market fer their produets. Wis letter
is attaehed for your infermatien.
"therefere, despite the view necessarily ex-
pressed by the Patent Office, 1t 1s felt that the
adverse deeisiens of the Japanese Patent Office
seriemsly ebstreet the premotien of the fereige
trade of the Parker Pen Company and, accordingly,
this Geverameat should render every aid pessible in
the premises."
While this Departmeat 1s heartily in aeeerd with
the abeve-queted statemest that "this Geveramest should
reader every aid possible in the premises", it would seem
extremely diffieult te fiad any reasonable greund fer any
astiem by the Geverament of the Uaited states in the in-
stant ease is view ef the epiniem expressed by the Gem-
missiener of Patents, based en his examimtien of the
petitiene upen shick the Parker Pen Goopeny rely in sup.
port of their regeest that pretest be nede to the Japesese
Geverament.

=== Page 9 === (confidence 0.91)
4
Severament. Fer ceavenienee of referenee the pertiment
parte of the Gemmissiemer's lotter are queted hereia.
aftor:
"The oaly greund on which a legitimate pretest
sould be mede by this Geverament te the Gevermment
in vielation ef the iatermational obligations of
Japen and, in effeet, are diserimimating against
mationals of the Baited states. I find in the
present reserd me evidence to support sush a charge.
has withdrawm its rejestien but an opposition to the
grant has beem filed and is still pending. To ez-
more than that a fair opportunity be given to beth
been deaied to the applieaat, the Parker Pen Cempany.
"The sesond petent applicatiom has been refused
by the Japasese examiner on the dlsolosure of certain
prier pateats. While the patests relied upen by the
ever whiek a patent was graated in this conatry,
this fast aleme ls of mo impertanee and dees met
"Isveations whieh would be reesgmised as susk
in this seuntry in the light of eur patent statutes,
ear legal seseeptieas and our sourt deeisieas may er

=== Page 10 === (confidence 0.89)
一
we are mesh nore stréet and la othere nare libaral
ventions pressnted to the Jepanese Patent Ofriee
ne eenseguenee and we eannet expeet the Japanese
by this eireumstanee.
"We are mot justified in assuming, in the ab.
sesse ef evideses, that the Japesese Patent Office
weald met reseh a similar ceselesien with respest
to an applisation ef oxe of its ewm eitisens.
"While, in view of the cenclusions expressed
abeve it dees met seem neesssary to enter inte a
detailed diseussien of the several cases, I canaet
refraim frem ebeerving that the Parker Pen Cempeny,
by its ewm admissiem, dees met feel any tee seeure
about the somndmess of its contention in one lastanee
and in another it has mot availed itself of the regu-
lar remedial measures afferded by appeals.
"Im a letter frem the Company to 1ts Japanese
representative (Exhibit A Iv) it is submitted:
'The treuble in this case is that the
diaphrage 19 whick takss the place of the
plunger of the Japanese utility medel is alse
met very mevel. The Parker Pen Company has
aequired pateats en this diaphkragm estien, and
the present seties is merely an imprevemeat en
this prier diapkrags patent.'
"In the last paragraph of page ? of the eomaami.
refusal of the exaniner te grent the patent.
*In the fase of suck an admisslen of weakaess
in eme ease and the failure to avail 1teelf of the

=== Page 11 === (confidence 0.93)
Simee it mest be assmmed that the Parker Pen
Sompany has ineluded in its petitions all the ressems
en whish it beses its cemplaints of unfairmess and
prejufise on the part of the Japamese Patent Offise and
simse the Uaited States Cemmissioner of Patents, after
examiming the Gempeny's petitiens, has stated that "I am
mot impressed with the sentention that the adverse de-
eisioms of the Japanese Patent Office are founded in
prejudice end are diserimimating agaiast eitizens of the
Smited states", the Department would be glad te reseive
the views of yeur Bepurtment on the practieal question
of the basis on whiek the eemplaints of the Parker Pen
Gempany might reasomably be brought to the attentien of
the Japamese Gevernment, together with any available in-
fermation in explamation ef the referenee in the letter
wmder mckmewledgment to "the latent and intangible
feeters which weigh againct the efferts ef this and ether
similarly situeted Ameriean eempanies to develep a Par
Mastern market for their preduets".
Very traly yours,
For the Sesretary of State:
~
R. WALTON MOORE
有
AUG 61937.

=== Page 12 === (confidence 0.96)
KE
FE
VEGAL ADVISER
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
jgn
5
RECEIVED
DEPARTMENT OF STAIE
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY
WASHINGTON
DEPARTMENTOFSTATE
1937 AUG 19 AM 9 26
August 17, 1937
DIVISION OF
Division of
FAR EASTERNAIRS
COMMUNICATIONS
AND RECORDS
AUG90 1937
The Honorable,
The Secretary of State,
Department of State,
894.543 (aren/ 12
Washington, D. C.
894.543 PARK三R/13
My dear Mr. Secretary:
Your letter of August 7th in reply to a letter dated
June 2, 1937, from the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce,
in regard to a request of the Parker Pen Company that a protest
be made to the Government of Japan against certain decisions of
the Japanese Patent Office, has been received.
I believe the letter under reference from the Bureau
of Foreign and Domestic Commerce should have been sent over my
signature instead of from the Liaison Officer of the Bureau.
This matter will be given further study with a view
to determining the basis upon which the complaints under con-
sideration may be brought to the attention of the Japanese
Government.
Very sincerely,
406211937
FTLFD
Ernest G. Draper,
Assistant Secretary of Commerce.
4
F/G

=== Page 13 === (confidence 0.57)
Toffe dahl

=== Page 14 === (confidence 0.99)
In support of the petition for
intervention as far as this is possible on behalf
of applications filed by United States citizens or
corporations in the Japanese Patent Office, the
petitioner submits evidence taken from its own
Japanese applications.
EXHIBIT A is a copy of the papers
filed in Case 7 in the Japanese Patent Office on
September 6, 1933.
ExhIBIT A-I which forms a part of
EXHIBIT A, is the specification and the claims
which were filed in support of the application for
Letters Patent in Japan. The English translation
of this specification and claims agrees verbatim with
the specification and claims which were filed in
English speaking countries, including the United
States, and translations of the same specification
and claims in foreign languages were also filed in
a great number of foreign countries. Any rejection
of the application, therefore, is not due to the
defective papers originally filed.
EhIBIT A-II is the first action rendered
by the Japanese Patent Office, and as will be
seen from this action, the Examiner relies on a
Japanese Utility Model No. 35069 which is also attached
hereto in the form of a photostatic print and marked
Exhibit A-III. The closing statement of the Examiner's
report that the application could not be fa-
-1-

=== Page 15 === (confidence 0.98)
vorably viewed for acceptance (translated in Japen
in this manner) is not alarming. It is the habit
of patent examiners in most countries to render a
rather adverse action in first taking up a case for
examination. The Utility Model No. 35O69, however,
does not disclose the principal features of the ap-
plied for invention.
EXHIBIT A-IV is a copy of a letter of
instructions sent to the Japanese attorney represent-
ing the applicant before the Patent Office.
EXHIBIT A-V is a copy of additional
instructions in order to enable the Japanese attor-
ney representing the applicant to distinguish more
forcefully between the applied for device and the
Utility registration cited by the Examiner.
The result of these letters, the Ja-
panese counterpart of which had then been submitted
to the Japanese Examiner, prevailed on the official
apparently to withdraw the Utility Model registration
No. 35069 as a reference, and in the action subse-
quently rendered, EXHIBIT A-VI, he now cites an en-
tirely different Utility Model publication No. 25175
of 1926. The Examiner himself admits that there are
distinotions between the present application and this
alleged reference now cited by him, and therefore
fortifies his position by the additional citation of
a Japanese Utility Model registration No. 64072.
In this action he combines in an unwarranted way the
two prior registrations and again conclndes that the
invention as presented to him could readily be de-
veloped from a cembination of these alleged prior dis-
-2

=== Page 16 === (confidence 0.99)
olosures.
EXHIBIT A-VII illustrates one of these
additional citations and will again make it clear to
any expert that there is not the remotest resemblance
between this device and the device forming the subject
matter of the present application, and there is still
less resemblance between this application and the oth-
er citation, a copy of which at the present time is
not available.
A full discussion of these citations was
then made by argument based on a letter of instructions
EXHIBIT A-VIII which had been forwarded in proper time
to the Japanese representative. The distinctions be-
tween these alleged prior disclosures and the present
invention are fully set forth.
The reply of the Patent Office to these
arguments consisted of a complete rejection, EXHIBIT
A-IX. In this rejection the references, namely, the
prior Utility Model registrations are not referred to
by number or in any other manner. The Examiner li-
mits himself to stating that the coverage of a rod by
a cylindrical diaphragm is known, although none of
these references showed it, and the idea of providing
a spring for automatically returning the rod is known
although none of the references showed it and although
really none of the claims were direoted to the provi-
sion of a spring for automatioally pulling out the
rod.
These EXHIBITS, therefore, show that
the rejection in this particular Japanese applioation
was unjustified. The petitioner would not approach

=== Page 17 === (confidence 0.99)
the Department of State with a request to romedy
the treatment of American applicants before the Ja-
panese Patent Office in general, if it were not for
the fact that the same subject matter which had been
rejected in Japan entirely on unwarranted citations
is covered in a very large number of countries where-
in the examination of applications is as rigorous as
in Japan. The same subject matter had been allowed
in the United States after a thorough and long pro-
secution. A copy of the United States patent is at-
tached hereto without being marked EXHIBIT
... mere-
ly to make the Secretary of State acquainted with the
protection granted in the United States. Some other
countries having strict examination of patent appli-
cations and in which this invention was protected, are:
Great Britain, Holland--two patents. Irish Free State,
Sweden and Denmark--two patents. Of course, the in-
vention also has been protected in additional countries
where the examination is less strict than in the above
named countries, and also in some countries no appli-
cations were filed at all as a matter of business po-
licy. At any rate, the list of countries having exa-
mination and having accepted the present application will
prove conclusively that patentability has been recognised
anywhere, for there is no other country in which the ap-
plication was rejected on its merits after having been
filed.
In order to decure some form of pro-
tection, even though it should be of far more limited
scope than originally planned, the petitioner then
converted this application into an application for

=== Page 18 === (confidence 0.99)
Utility Model registration. This is part of the
Japanese practice, and it is very frequently re-
sorted to. In support of this Utility Model regi-
stration the applicant submits the same documents
which served originally for the patent application.
EXHIBIT A-I of the present remarks may, therefore,
be considered also the basis of the application for
Utility Model registration.
The Patent Office demanded in the
first action on the application for Utility Model
certain limitations, as evidenced by EXHIBIT A-X.
No rejection issued even though in this action,
EXHIBIT A-X, the Office desired that the distinctions
in construction between the present application and
the references cited in previous Bureau Notices
should be made clear.
The instructions which, in reply to
this action, were forwarded to Japan, are apparent
from EXHIBIT A-XI, and it is the petitioner's firm
understanding and belief that arguments following
these instructions were submitted and that the oth-
er demands made in the action, EXHIBIT A-X, were com-
plied with.
In spite of compliance with these de-
mands, and in spite of the fact that ordinarily in
Utility Model registrations, the Japanese Patent Of-
fice is not as insistent as in patent pplications
upon differentiation in a broad sense from prior
known devices, the Patent Office again rendered an
action, EXHIBIT A-XII, and now called attention to
the British Patent Specification No. 318,982 waich
-5-

=== Page 19 === (confidence 0.99)
is attached hereto as EXHIBIT A-XIII. It may be stat-
ed here that this British patent is the property of the
present petitioner, that in those countries in which
as enumerated above, the patent was granted on the
present invention, the same British patent also had
either been cited by the authorities or the authori-
ties had recognized that the present invention goes
beyond that which is contained in the British specifi-
cation No. 318,982. At any rate, the protection was
ultimately granted. The protection was granted in the
United States in spite of the fact that there is also
a United States patent corresponding to the British
Specification No. 318,982. The protection was granted
in Great Britain in spite of this British specifica-
tion. It would have been natural. to assume that other
Patent Offices examining applications as to novelty
would, therefore, also discover patentable subject
matter in the present application, particularly sub-
ject matter which would render the present application
suitable for registration as a Utility Model under
the Japanese practice.
EXHIBIT A-XIV is submitted to show the
instructions which were sent out from the United States
to the representative in order to explain to the Exa-
miner the distinctions between the application for Uti-
lity Model registration and the British specification
cited.
This set of instructions finally led
to the acceptance of the Utility Model application.
The application, however, while accept-

=== Page 20 === (confidence 0.99)
ed by the Patent Office, did not lead to registra-
tion for the reason that an Opposition was filed
against it by a Japanese national, Shuichi Sasaki.
This Opposition is based on exactly the same publi-
cations which already had been advanced by the Patent
Office during the examination of the patent applica-
tion as well as of the application for registration
of the Utility Model. The Opposition, EXHIBIT A-XV
is now pending since the representative of The Parker
Pen Company received instructions in full--EXHIBIT
A-XvI--to reply to the Opposer.
In view of the attitude taken by the
authorities during the prosecution of the application
for patent and application for Utility Model registra-
tion, your petitioner has severe misgivings that even
this Opposition which to the petitioner seems very
frivolous in connection with this case may lead to
complete rejection of the application.
While in other countries where the ap-
plication for patent had been filed, after a thorough
prosecution the application has been accepted, the
present application, although pending since l933, has
not yet led to any form of protection which the peti-
tioner could make use of in Japan.
But this procrastination which is part-
ly due to the repetition of objections unfounded in the
petitioner's opinion and issued from the Patent Ofrice,
and partly due to the Opposition so frivolously lodg-
ed by a Japanese national, has the very serious draw-
back for the petitioner that in the meantime the pro-
-7-

=== Page 21 === (confidence 0.99)
ducts made by petitioner and which have acquired an
international worldwide reputation, are copied in
Japan and are sent to all parts of the globe so that
infringelents of this article are encountered in Asia,
--as for instance in India, and other parts of the
Far Bast, in bouth Aaerice,--as in Brazil, and in
other south American Republics, as well as in Europe,
--as in Belsiun, and in other states. It is this
condition which gives the unscrupulous manufacturer
of Japan an enormous advantage over the Americen pro-
ducer. First, the American's application for protec-
tion is refused, than a national opposes even the li-
mited protection which he desires, and in the meantime
the manufacture and sale of infringing articles all
over the globe is pushed to the great detriment of
the originator of the genuine improvement.
It is believed that the diplonatic
representatives in Japan may be directed to inquire
through the proper channels from the Japanese Patent
Office and other competent authorities whether
actually upon the submission of similar applications
by nationals of Japan or by nationals of other coun-
tries, similar obstacles are presented. It is the
sincere opinion of the petitioner that under these
conditions it will become entirely useless for any
American manufacturer to even attempt to secure
protection in Japan.
Respectfully submitted,
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
By
-8

=== Page 22 === (confidence 1.00)
1,980,508

=== Page 23 === (confidence 0.98)
Nov. 13, 1934.
1,980,508
I. D. TEFFT
FOUNTAIN PEN FILLING DEVICE
FIG-1
FIG-2
FIG-3
-23
30
34
35
39
35
28
34
26
37
40.
27
32
29
32
25
31
23
23
32
19
20
37
4
4
22
28
21
26
39
40
24
41
29
38
38
29
27
37
25
12
31
26
20
19
18
12
FIG-5
36
23
13
16
FIG-4
32
34
17
35
14
37
40
Ivau. O Jiffr
111
39
26
15
INVENTOR
Br Trau. 6l. Jeffr
ATTORNEY

=== Page 24 === (confidence 0.99)
Patented Nov. 13, 1934
1,980,508
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE
1,980.508
FOUNTAIN PEN FILLING DEVICE
Ivan Ω. Tefft. Janesville, Wis., assignor to The
Parker Pen Company, Janesville. Wis., a corpo-
ration of Wisconsin
Application October 6, 1932, Serial No. 636,436
16 Claims. (Cl. 120—47)
My invention relates to fountain pens and more
16 and is axally drilled to provide an air duct
partucularly to the filling means therefor, and this
17. which duct interconnects the said channel at
appl cation is spccifically diiecied to toprove-
a poin: approximately midway its length. An air
ments of the de vice disclosed in the patent to
tube 18 is press-fitted into the enlarged upper end
Arthur O. Dahlberg. 1,904,358. issued April 18.
of the duct 17 and extends upwardly into the bar- 60
1933.
rel a predetermined distance. The said feed and
The principal objects of my invention are to
air tube are of the type exemplified in the patent
provide:
to Taylor, Number 802,668, dated October 24,
First: An improved filling device employing
1905, and are well-known in the art.
10
the vacuum pump principle as is disclosed n the
The upper end of the barrel is closed by a pli- 
Dahlberg patent above mentioned. but having
able sealing member or flexible diapliragm 19
means for positive locking of the pump plunger
made of rubber or other flexible and ink proo
in the closed position;
material. The said diaphragm is frusto-conical
Second: A vacuum pump filling mechanism
in shape and has projecting from the lower-mosi
1.5
employing a rubber diaphragm somewhat similar
portion thereof a lug 20 having a shallow annular 0
to that disclosed n the Dahlberg patent here-
groove 21 formed therein to receive an inwaraly
abeve mentioned. and having improved means
extending annular flange 22 of a tubular plung-
for locking the diaphragm onto the plunger;
er 23.
Third: A novel and improved assembly of the
The lug 20 of the diaphragm is of the same
20
units constituting the said vacuum pump:
material as the said diaphragm and is formed 75,
Fourth: A fill ng device which is exceedingly
thereon by a molding process. When received
durable, may be economically manufactured and
from the molder, the diaphragm is in an inverted
position, the lug being on the outside, but when
eagily and qu ckly operated.
Other objects will appear from the following
assembled onto the filling device the said dia-
phragm is turned inside out so that the lug is 80
description. reference being had to the accom-
situated on the inside of the cup so formed. By
panying drawing, in which:
the turning of the diaphragm inside out as to
Fig. 1 is a longitudinal sectional view of a foun-
position the lug within it, an initial bend is made
tain pen in which a preferred form of the filling
device of my invention is incorporated, showing
at the point 24 in the diaphragm which aids in
30
the parts in normal inoperative position;
causing the diaphragm to roll freely upon itself, 85
the purpose of which will more fully appear here-
Fig. 2 is a similar view of the filling device only.
after.
showing the parts in normal operating position;
The peripheral edge of the diaphragm is pressed
Fig. 3 is a longitudinal sectional view of an as-
or clamped against a tapering annular shoulder
sembly of the more important parts of the filling
35
mechanism;
25 formed in the barrel 12 by the complemental- 90
ly tapering ring portion 27 of the sleeve 26 which
Fg. 4 is a transverse sectiona! view of the
encircles the tubular plunger 23. The said sleeve
flling mechanism on the line 4--4 of Fig. 3; and
26 is forced into the barrel by an annular nut 28
Fig. 5 is a fragmentary plan view of the plunger
which is threaded in the end of the barrel and
portion of the filling mechanism disclosing a por-
engages a shoulder 29 on the sleeve 26. The up- 95
10
tion of the cam lock mechanism which is to be
per portion of the nut 28 is of less diameter than
specifically described hereafter.
that portion of it which is adapted to be screwed
The pen comprises a barrel 12, which is of one-
into the barrel and is threaded to receive a cover-
piece construction, the usual threaded and de-
ing cap 30. The nut 28 is adapted to be screwed
tachable section being eliminated, the said sec-
into the barrel so that the shoulder formed by 100
45
tion being a continuation and part of the barrel.
reducing the upper end thereof is flush with the
which construction eliminates the possibility of
top edge of the said barrel. The distance between
leakage wh ch might occur were the section a
the tapered annular portion 25 and the top edge
separate unit.
of the barrel is such that upon the assembly of
For the purpose of clarifying the description,
the unit into the barrel, and the nut 28 being ro- 105
50
the section will hereafter be referred to as a sep-
tated to firmly lock the diaphragm in position.
arate part and will be designated by the nu-
the shoulder on the said member 28 will be filush
meral 13.
with the top edge of the said barrel.
A feed bar 14 and a pen point 15 are secured
The sleeve 26 has an annular shoulder 31 at the
in the section in the customary manner. The
upper end of the tapered portion 27 which is of 110
55
feed bar has a longitudinal ink feeding channel

=== Page 25 === (confidence 0.97)
2
1,980,508
substantially the same diameter as the inside of
face of the wedge member 26. The assembler
the barrel, and which limits the upward move-
then grasp: the tapered portion of the wedge
ment of the diaphragin on the wedge or tapered
member 26 in his righi hand and presses down
portion 27 when the assembled filling mcchanism
on the plunger, whereupon the pin 37, being sus-
is being inserted into the barrel.
pended between the two apertures in the mem-
80
The sleeve member 26 is axially drilled and ha:
ber 26 will cause the spring 35 (which is limited
a larger bore at the bottom end thereof to provide
by the button 36 and the said pin 37) to be
clearance for the diaphragm when it is at the
compressed.
upper end of its stroke.
It is to be noted that due to the fact the pin
10
The tubular plunger 23 has spaced. cligned  lo
37 is held in a tationery position. downward
85
32 stamped therein and at ihe uppr uf said
mosement of th: phunger will cauee the pim to
slots the metal is blanked away as to toru a caum
approach the top cut-ont portion ef the said
shoulder 34, the aperture formed in :he blankin
slots 32 Upon reaching the uppermo't limit of
being in one of the slots on the lefthand de .
the slet 32, the assembler rotate he ptunger
15
said slot, and the other on the righthand : de
in a coun'er ciockwise d'rection, whereupon the
JC
The purpose of the slots, cam hoalders and ap
pan will ride over the cam toulder 4 and come
tures will be more fully explaned hereafter.
to re t on ti angle face of the said cam shoul-
A compression coil spring 35 is confined be-
der. thus serurely locking the plunger in closed
tween a button 36 (which is fixed n the end of
position. The tinit is then fitted into the upper
20
the plunger 23) and a pin 37 which pasihrotch
rnd of the barre! so that the tapered face of
35
the longitudinally extending slot in he
Che meber 26 will bear against the peripherial
plunger 23. the ends of said pin resting in aligned
edge of the diephragm which, in turn. centacts
apertures 38 formed in 'he sleeve 26
the compiomentally tapered annular shoulder 25
Inasmuch as that portion of the n: ?s vhich
in the barrei. 'The annular nut 28 is then thread-
20
is adapted to be screwed in the barrel surrounds
d in'o the complenental threads on the interior
100
that portion of the wedge member 26 whch .
ef the barrel until sufficient tension has been
slotted to receive the pin 37, lateral movement
exerted en the wedge member 26 to cause a tight
of the said pin is prevented; thus whien the as-
liquid-proof joint between the diaphragm and
sembly is completed, the pin cannot become dis-
the coinplementally tapered ring portion 25 in
so
engaged from the apertures in which its ends
the barrel.
105
rest.
The operation of the filling device is as fol-
In order that the lowermost portion of the
lows:
spring may have a better contact with the pin 37.
The cap 30 is inscrewed from the end of the
a spring seat 39 is provided, the said spring seat
annular nut 28 and through the medium of the
86
having an annular shoulder 40 on which the
button 36 the plunger 23 is rotated in a ciockwise
spring is seated as is disclosed in Fig. 3.
direction thus releasing the locking pin 37 from
The assembly of the mechanism is s follow:
engagement with the lock ng cams in the upper
A circular hard rubber plug 41 i: force fitted
portion of the :ots 32. The spring will then draw
into the top end of the plunger 23 and pressed to
the plunger ups. ard and. of a consequence, will
40
a point near the bottom thereof. The spring 35
cause the diaphragm to roll upon itself. The pen
is next slipped into the plunger, whereupon the
point is then inserted in the inkwell and the
cap 36 is affixed to the end effectually closing the
plunger slowly reciprocated. preferably by ap-
said plunger assembly.
plying the index finger to the top of the cap and
The circular nut 28 is th. shipped over the
grasping the barrel between the thumb and othe:
45
plunger from the lowerinost ,. and following
fingers.
this the wedge member 26 1s . s0 slipped over
During the downward stroke against the pres-
the end, whereupon the pin 37pped through
sure of the spring, as stated before, the dia-
one of the apertures in the si i the wcdge
phragm will roll upon itself from the position
member under the spring and. he aligned
shown in Fig. 2 to a position substantially as
6C
slot on the opposite side of i1. said wedge
hown in Fig. 1, displacing a certain amount of
member. The lug 20 on the diaphriun. i.s then
air which is ejected through the tube 18, duct
forced into the aperture on the lowern'et end o
17 and ink channel 15. Upon relieving (he finger
the plunger and because of its corform. ion the
pressure on the cap 36, the spring will force the
inturned edge of the said plunger wille in
plunger upwardly causing a partial vacuum with-
the recess in the said lug thus affixing the dia-
in the barrel and a consequent flow of ink into
phragm to the end of the plunger. A thin-bladed
the barrel under atmospheric pressure. The
tool is slipped between the slots in the sides of
major portion of the ink will enter the barrel
the plunger directly over the rubber plug 41 and
through the ink channel 16 but if the vacuum
by pressing down on this thin tool the rubber
produced by the pump is sufficient, a small quan-
ti
plug is pressed down upon the soft rubber dia-
tity of said ink will also enter through the air
phragm lug causing it to expand and firmly
tubes 17 and 18.
locking it in the end of the tube 23.
During the initial periods of the second and
This rubber washer 41 serves the dual purpose
subsequent depressions of the plunger, the pres-
of locking the diaphragm onto the end of the
sure in the barrel will be raised above atmos-
plunger and of acting as a buffer against which
pheric and the ink which stands in the air tube
the pin 37 will strike in its downward movement
18 (at approximately the same level as the ink
the buffer being of sufficient thickness so that
in the barrel) will be ejected. At this time, a
when it is wedged down tightly onto the dia-
certain volume of ink will be forced from the bar-
phragm lug, the top face of it will extend above
rel through the ink channel 16 but due to the fact
the lower edges of the slots 32, and thus limit
that there is a much smaller quantity of ink in
-心
further upward movement of the plunger.
the tube 18 and duct 17 than in the barrel, the
After the assembly of the various elements of
ink will be exhausted from the former before an
the pump mechanism is completed. the dia-
appreciable volume of ink has escaped from the
phragm is turned inside out and the top periph-
barrel through the ink channel 16.
erial edge thereof is slipped over the tapered
Upon continued downward movement of the
.00

=== Page 26 === (confidence 0.98)
1,980,508
plunger after the ink has been exhausted from
securing said support means in said barrel, both
the tube 18 and the duct 17, the air in the barrel,
said support means and securing means having
due to its much greate: fluidity, will be forced
guide-support connection with said reciprocable
from the barrel through the said air tube 18
means. said reciprocable means having an op-
5 and the duct 17 with much more rapidity than ink
erating part projecting beyond one end of said
80
is ejected through the feed channels 16.
barrel and said securing means, means for lim-
The ratio of the air and ink ejected is de-
iting the ine ement of sa.d reciprecable means.
pendent upon the speed of the depre s on st roke
and sel tably  retive means for lock ng said
of the plunger and the relative proportions be-
reeiprocable mcans in one position of reeriproca-
10
tween th areas of the duct 17 and the feed chan-
con.
85
nel 16. The raet that a cross se tional area 
3. In a fountain pen. the combination with a
the ink channe! 16 is less than that of ihe tube 8
narrel oving as an ink reservoir. flexible means
and the duct 17 'and consequently it, re istane,
losin: and ealing one end portion of the barrel
to flow greater, is a factor which aids in redue-
and dapted to be flexed to vary the atmospheric
15
ing the proportion of ink expelled upon each de-
pres ure therein. means upporting said flexible
90
pression of the plunger.
means in cealed relation with respect to said
That the barrel s full of ink may be sensed
barre!. reciprocable means connected to said flex-
because greater pressure is required to operte
ible means for fiexing the latter, means detachably
the plunger and aiso because ar  ) lon!
conecd to the barrel outwardly beyond said
20
ciected from the pen point. When tao pe
flexible member for securing said support means
95
filled ana on the las' downward stroke of the
in caid barrel, both said support means and secur-
plunger. the plunger is rotated in a clockwise di-
ing means having guide-support connection with
rection and the consequent engagemen: of the
said reciprocable means,  aid reciprocable means
pin 37 with the can's on the upper end of the
having an operating part projecting beyond one
25
tube 23 wil! cause the plunger to be locked in
end of said barrel and said securing means, 
closed pos.tion thus permitting the assemblers
means between said support means and said
to fit the blind cap 30 thereover.
reciprocabie means for limiting the movement of
It is inportant to note that the annular mem-
said reciprocable means, and selectably effective
ber 28 is so constructed as to present a threaded
means cooperative with said limiting means for
30
head when the blind cap i removed, which
locking said reciprocable means in one position 15
threaded head will take a threaded desk set taper
of reciprocation.
as well as the blind cap.
4. In a fountain pn. the combination with a
Should it at any time become necessary to re-
barre! sovius as an ink reservoir, flexible means
move the filling device from the barre! for lean-
cos ng nd sealing one end portion of the barrel
36
mg or repair. t may be withdrawn as a mit by
ard ad pied to be flexed to vary the atmospheric
110
unscri wing the nut 28.  spectal tool be oe 
pressure therein. means supporting said flexible
quired. which tool is adapted to clamp en the
means in said barrel. reciprocabl, means con-
threaded end of the said nut with su hcient ten-
nected to aid flexible means for flexing the latter,
sion es to permit unscrewing of the nut and a
means for sccuring said support means in said
consequent removal of the entire un't.
barrel, bo'h said support means and securing 115
While I have shown and described pa tictdar
means having guide-support connection with said
embodiments of my invention, it will be apparen
reciprocatle means. said reciprocable means hav-
to those skilled in the art that numerou: varia-
ing an operating part projecting beyond one end
tions and changes may be made without de-
of said berrel, means for limiting the movement
parting from the pr nciples thereof, and I there-
of said reciprocatory means, and means coop- 120
fore wish my invention to embrace all such
eralive with a part of gaid limiting means for
changes, variations. modifieat ons and substi-
locking said reciprocating means in one of its
tutions as will naturally suggest (hemselves to
limits of reciprocation.
persons skilled in the art.
5. In a fountain pen. the combination with a
Having described my invention. what I desire
barrel having a tapered seat therein and serv- 16
to secure by Letters Patent is:
ing as an ink reservoir. Alling mechanism which
1. In a fountain pen. the combination with
includes a sleeve member having an outer seat
a barrel serving as an ink reservoir, flexibie means
portion tapered complemen:ally to said wall seat.
clos ng cne end portion of the barrel and adapt-
a flexible member a dap'ed to lose one end por-
ed to be flexed to vary the atmospheric pres-
tion of said barrel and having a circular edge 130
sure therein. means support ng said fexible
part supported upon the tapered seat of said
means in said barrel, reciprocable means con-
cleeve, another sleeve member threadedly engaged
nected to said flexible means for fexing the lat-
with said barrel outwardly beyond said first
ter. means for securing said support means in said
slecve and adapted as it is screwed into the barrel
barrel. both said support means and securing
to engage said first sleeve and move it axially
135
means having gu'de connection with said re-
to secure the circular edge of said flexible nmem-
ciprocable means, said reciprocable mean: having
ber between said tapered seats in seal tight
an operating part projecting beyond one end of
fashion, a reciprocable member slidably supported
said barrel and said securing means. and means
by both said sleeve members for flexing said
detachably carried by said securing means nor-
flexible member, said reciprocable member hav-
140
mally forming a cont nuation of said barrel and
ing an operating part projected beyond said sec-
concealing said securing means and said operat.
ond sleeve member, and a cap member detachably
ing part.
mounted on seid second sleeve member for con-
2. In a fountain pen, the combination with a
cealing the latter and the operating part of
barrel serving as an ink reservoir, flex ble means
said reciprocable member.
145
closing one end portion of the barrel and adapt-
6. In a fountain pen, the combination with a
barrel having a tapered seat therein and serving
ed to be flexed to vary the atmospheric pressure
as an ink reservoir. filling mechanism which in-
therein, means supporting said flexible means in
cludes a sleeve member having an outer seat por-
said barrel, reciprocable means connected to sa d
tion tapered complementally to said wall seat, a 150
flexible means for flexing the latter, means for

=== Page 27 === (confidence 0.99)
1,980,508
flexible member adapted to close one end portion
ible member into their barrel closing positions,
of said barrel and having a circular edge part sup-
said second sleeve member also receiving said re-
ported upon the tapered seat of said sleeve, an-
ciprocable member for guidance of the latter,
other sleeve member threadedly engaged with said
means between said first sleeve member and re-
5 barrel outwardly beyond said first sleeve and
ciprocable member for limiting movement of said
80
adapted as it is screwed into the barrel to engage
reciprocable member, and a finger-operated de-
said first sleeve and move it axially to secure ihe
vice on said reciprocable member of greater di-
circular edge of said flexible member between
mensions than the bore of said second sleeve.
said tapered seats in seal tight fashion, a re-
10. A unitary filling unit for a fountain pen
10
ciprocable member sidably supported by both
adapted for insertion in and removal from the
85
said sleeve members for flexing said flexible mem-
barrel of the pen without separation of parts,
ber, said reciprocabie meiber having an operat-
which includes a sleeve member adapted to be
ing part projected beyond sai: econd -leeve mem
operativeiy associated with a fountain pen barrel
ber, longitudinal opposed slots i: sad reciprocable
by axial movement, a second sleeve member
15
member, a cress member carried by said frst
adapted to be scic wed into the barrel and adapt-
90
sleeve member, and passng through said slots
ed as it is screwed into the barrel to engage and
to limit reciprocation of taid reciprocable mem-
move said finst sleeve member axially into its op-
ber, and pockets in said reciprocable member at
erative position, a flexible member adapted to
one end of said siots and counecied to said slots
close one end portion of the barrel and having a
20
to one side thereof for reccption of said cross
circular edge supported by said first sleeve mem-
95
member upon rotation of said reciprocable mem-
ber and adapted to be moved into operative sealed
ber to loek the latter against reciprocation.
relation with respec! to the barrel by axial move-
7. In a fountain pen, the conbimation with a
ment of said first sleeve member, a reciprocable
barrel providing an ink reservoir, of filling mech-
member supported by both said sleeve members
25
anism which comprises a flexible member, a re-
and connected to said flexible member to flex the
100
ciprocable member connected to said flexible
latter to vary the air pressure in the barrel, said
member for flexing the latter to vary the air
reciprocable member having an exposed operat-
pressure in said barrel reservoir, a sleeve mem-
ing part, means for limiting movement of said
ber supporting said flexib!e member and having
reciprocable member, and means cooperating
30
wedge engagement with the wall of said barrel
with aid limiting means for locking said recip- 105
reservoir, another sleeve me nber having threaded
rocable member against movement at one end of
engagement with said barrel and adapted to
its reciprocating movement.
wedge-engage said first sleeve member with the
11. in a fountain pen, the combination with
barrel, an externally threaded ex.ension on said
a barrel providing an nk reservoir, filling meeha-
86
second sleeve projecting beyond th" one end of
ni.m which in ludes a flexible member ciosing
110
said barrel. said extension and first sleeve mem-
one end portion ci the barrel, a support means
ber serving as guides for said reciprocating mem-
tor sad flexible member, a reciprocable member
ber, the latter having an operating part project-
uid.i.gly-suppor:ed? by said support means and
ing beyond said extension outside said barrel,
attached to said flexible member for flexng the
40
and a cap member detachably threaded on said
latr to vary the air pressure in the barrel,
115
extension to conceal the latter and the operat-
means preventing rotation of said reciprocable
ing part of said reciprocable member.
member and limiting the extent of its reciprocat-
8. A self-contained filling mechanism adapted
ing movement, means permitting rotation of said
to be inserted in one end of the barrel of a
reciprocabie member at one end of its reciproca-
45
fountain pen which comprises a flexible mermber
tory rnovement and for locking said reciproca-
120
for closing one end of said barrel, a support for
ble member against reciprocatory movement
said member, a reciprocable member connecied
upon rotation thereof, and a cap member carried
to said flexible meinber and projecting from said
by said support means and concealing the latter
one end of the barrel where it is accessible for
and said reciprocable member.
50
operation, said support also serving to guide said
12. In a fountain pen, the combination with
125
reciprocable rnember, a separate sleeve member
a barrel providing an ink reservoir, filling mech-
screw-threadedly mounted in said one end of said
anism which includes a flexible member closing
barrel for securing said support and flexible
one end portion of the barrel. a support means
member in said barrel, said sleeve member hav-
for said flexible member, a reciprocable member
55
ing an externally threaded extension projecting
guidingly-supported by said support means and
130
beyond said one end of the barrel and serving as
attached to said flexible member for flexing the
an additional guide for said reciprocable member,
latter to vary the air pressure in the barrel, said
and a cap member detachably engageable with
reciprocable member having an operating part
said extension to conceal said extension and the
projecting from the barrel, a connection betwcen
60 projecting end of said reciprocable member.
said support means and said reciprocable mem-
135
9. A filling mechanism for a fountain pen
ber permitting reciprocation only of the latter
which may be inserted in and removed from the
for the greater part of its length and permit-
barrel of a fountain pen without detachment of
ting rotation thereof at one end of its recipro-
the parts thereof relative to each other, which
catory movement to lock said reciprocable mem-
65
comprises a flexible member spanning the barrel
ber against reciprocatory movement, and a cap
140
to close an end portion thereof and having a cir-
member adapted to cover and conceal the oper-
cular edge portion adapted to be fixed relative to
ating part of said reciprocable member in the
the barrel wall, a sleeve member supporting said
locked position of the latter.
edge portion and adapted to fix said edge portion
13. In a fountain pen, the combination with
0
in position upon the barrel wall, a reciprocable
a barrel providing an ink reservoir, of a filling
145
member engaged with said flexible member and
mechanism including a tubular flexible mem-
guidingly-supported by said sleeve member, an-
ber having a closed end and an open end, a head
other sleeve member adapted for threaded en-
on the closed end of said tubular member and
gagement with the barrel and adapted to en-
having an external annular groove therein, a
75 gage and move said first sleeve member and flex-
member supporting the open end of said tubular
150

=== Page 28 === (confidence 0.94)
1,980,508
5
member and for seal-engaging it with the barrel
sealed fashion, a reciprocable member guided
to close one end portion of the latter, another
by the support member for flexing said flexible
tubular and reciprocable member having one end
member, a lock member having screw threaded
open, and inturned to engage in said head groove
engagement with said open end portion of the
5
to receive a part of said head within said re-
barrel and securing said support member in place
80
ciprocable member, means in said recipro able
as well as affording additional guidance for said
member engaging said head therenm and locking
reciprocable member, means limiting the recip-
taid head tnereto, a sleeve menber threaded into
rocation movement of sain reciprocable member,
the end ef  aid barrel to lock said support mem-
and lock.ng means in said reciprocable member
i0
ber h operaiive peston therein. d stpport
coopert wth said hinitng means for locking
85
and sleeve .ermbers gundung sadrd iproeable
sand reeprocabie member against reciprocation.
imember for movemenn to tiex  1 fhe xib. ane-
16. In a fountain pen. the combination with
bei and vary the air pressure in thhe barrel.
a barrei having an open end, of filling mecha-
14. I. a fountan pen. the combn vth a
in. in cr: ole m aid ba rel end which includes
barrel havne an open end. of finma  moatn
a fleble se ahing member closing said open end
90
insertable in and open end and intitdne a the
o1 th, barrel, a reciprocable member for flexing
ible sealin member for closmg rat1 open end
sard sealing member to vary the pressure in said
of the bai rei, a member supportmg tid "ang
bariel. a : leeve-like member supporting and se-
member and securing the same to the baer : in
cori: ad flexib'e inember m said barrel and
sented ta hion. a reepro able m mbe tded
dine saud re ipiccable member. said recipro-
95
by the sumpor member for tes ao
cabt amember having opposed longitudinad slots
member. a pok m mber havmg ser r ad d
eendne throughout a substantial pait of its
engageraent weh  td opea end p r on ei the
en th and baving circumferentially offset pock-
barrel and securins paid supper: member i. p'ae
et: a. and connected to the corresponding ends
as well as affordim additional gudonee for said
of said slots, a cro's member carried by said 100
reciprocable merb r. ond mean between ai
:leeve-like member ana passing through said
support and reciprocable member toesing ne
lots to limt reciprocatory movement of said
latter against reciprocation at ene cnd of its re-
cciprocative member and to prevent rotation
ciprocation movement.
thereof during its reciprocation, said pockets
15. In a fountain pen. th tombine ion with a
perinittng rotation of said reciprocable member 105
barrel having an open end, of n mecha m
o receive aid cros, member in said pockets and
insertable in said open end and 1. Itding a il 
nt furthe: cperative reciprocation of said
ble sealing member for closing aid open end
: cprocable member.
of the barrel, a member supporting ad ca!n:
IVAN D. TEFFT.
member and securing the saime to the barrel in
110
40
115
120
45
50
125
130
60
135
140
65
70
145
150
75

=== Page 29 === (confidence 0.93)
ixhihtA.
Case "7
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, a corporation duly organized
under the laws of the State of Wisconsin, of Corner of
Court and Division Streets, Janesville, State of Wis-
consin, United States of America.
FOUNTAIN PEN
1一

=== Page 30 === (confidence 0.99)
Our invention relates to fountain pens and more
particularly to the filling means therefor.
The principal objects of our invention are to pro-
vide:
First: An improved filling device employing the
vacuum pump principle, but having means for positive locking
of the pump plunger in the closed position;
Second: A vacuum pump filling mechanism employing
a rubber diaphragm and having improved means for locking the
diaphragm onto the plunger;
Third: A novel and improved assembly of the units
constituting the said vacuum pump;
Fourth: A filling device which is exceedingly dur-
able, may be economically manufactured and easily and quick-
ly operated.
Other objects will appear from the following des-
cription, reference being had to the accompanying drawing,
in which:
Fig. 1 is a longitudinal sectional view of a foun-
tain pen in which a preferred form of the filling device of
our invention is incorporated, showing the parts in normal
inoperative position;
Fig. 2 is a similar view of the filling device on-
ly, showing the parts in normal operating position;
Fig. 3 is a longitudinal sectional view of an as-
sembly of the more important parts of the filling mechanimm;
Fig. 4 is a transverse sectional view of the fill-
ing mechanism on the line 4--4 of Fig. 3; and
Fig. 5 is a fragmentary plan view of the plunger
portion of the filling mechanism disclosing a portion of the
cam lock mechanism which is to be specifically described
hereafter.

=== Page 31 === (confidence 0.99)
Then pen comprises a barrel 12, which is of one-
piece construction, the usual threaded and detachable seo-
tion being eliminated, the said section being a continua-
tion and part of the barrel, which construction eliminates
the possibility of leakage which might occur were the sec-
tion a separate unit.
For the purpose of clarifying the description,
the section will hereafter be referred to as a separate part
and will be designated by the numeral 13.
A feed bar 14 and a pen point 15 are secured in
the section in the customary manner. The feed bar has a
longitudinal ink feeding channel 16 and is axially drilled
to provide an air duct 17, which duct interconnects the said
channel at a point approximately midway its length. An air
tube 18 is press-fitted into the enlarged upper end of the
duct 17 and extends upwardly into the barrel a predetermined
distance.
The upper end of the barrel is closed by a plia-
ble sealing member or flexible diaphragm 19 made of rubber
or other flexible and ink proof material. The said diaphragm
is frusto-conical in shape and has projecting from the lower-
most portion thereof a lug 20 having a shallow annular groove
21 formed therein to receive an inwardly extending annular
flange 22 of a tubular plunger 23.
The lug 20 of the diaphragm is of the same mater-
ial as the said diaphragm and is formed thereon by a molding
process. When received from the molder, the diaphragm is in
an inverted position, the lug being on the outside, but when
assembled onto the filling device the said diaphragm is turn-
ed inside out so that the lug is situated on the inside of
the cup so formed. By the turning of the diaphragm inside
out as to position the lug within it, an initial bend is

=== Page 32 === (confidence 0.99)
at the point 24 in the diaphragm which aids in causing the
diaphragm to roll freely upon itself, the purpose of which.
will more fully appear hereafter.
The peripherial edge of the diaphragm is pressed
or clamped against a tapering annular shoulder 25 formed in
the barrel l2 by the complementally tapering ring portion
27 of the sleeve 26 which encircles the tubular plunger 23.
The said sleeve 26 is forced into the barrel by an annular
nut 28 which is threaded in the and of the barrel and engages
a shoulder 29 on the sleeve 26. The upper portion of the
nut 28 is of less diameter than that portion of it which is
adapted to be screwed into the barrel and is threaded to re-
ceive a covering cap 30. The nut 28 is adapted to be screw-
ed into the barrel so that the shoulder formed by reducing
the upper end thereof is flush with the top edge of the said
barrel. The distance between the tapered annular portion 25
and the top edge of the barrel is such that upon the assembly
of the unit into the barrel, and the nut 28 is rotated as to
firmly lock the diaphragm in position, the shoulder on the
said member 28 will be flush with the top edge of the said
barrel.
The sleeve 26 has an annular shoulder 31 at the
upper end of the tapered portion 27 which is of substantially
the same diameter as the inside of the barrel, and which
limits the upward movement of the diaphragm on the wedge or
tapered portion 27 when the assembled filling mechanism is
being inserted into the barrel.
The sleeve member 26 is axially drilled and has
a larger bore at the bottom end thereof to provide clearance
for the diaphragm when it is at the upper end of its stroke.
The tubular plunger 23 has spaced, aligned slots
32 stamped therein and at the upper end of said slots the

=== Page 33 === (confidence 0.98)
metal is blanked away as to form a cam shoulder 34, the aper-
ture formed in the blanking being in one of the slots on the
lefthand side of said slot, and the other on the righthand
side. The purpose of the slots, cam shoulders and apertures
will be more fully explained hereafter.
A compression coil spring 35 is confined between
a button 36 (which is fixed in the end of the plunger 23) and
a pin 37 which passes through the longitudinally extending
slots 38 in the plunger 23, the ends of said pin resting in
aligned longitudinally extending apertures formed in the
sleeve 26.
Inasmuch as that portion of the nut 28 which is
adapted to be screwed in the barrel surrounds that portion
of the wedge member 26 which is slotted to receive the pin
37, lateral movement of the said pin is prevented; thus when
the assembly is completed, the pin cannot become disengaged
from the apertures in which its ends rest.
In order that the lowermost portion of the spring
may have a better contact with the pin 37, a spring seat 39
is provided, the said spring seat having an annular shoulder
40 on which the spring is seated as is disclosed in Fig. 3.
The assembly of the mechanism is as follows:
A circular hard rubber plug 41 is force fitted in-
to the top end of the plunger 23 and pressed to a point near
the bottom thereof. The spring 35 is next slipped into the
plunger, whereupon the cap 36 is affixed to the end effectual-
ly closing the said plunger assembly.
The ciroular:nut 28 is then slipped over the plung-
or from the lowermost end, and following this the wedge mem-
ber 26 is also slipped over the end, whereupon the pin 37 1s
slipped through one of the apertures in the side of the wedge
--5-一

=== Page 34 === (confidence 0.99)
member under the spring and into the aligned slot on the
opposite side of the said wedge member. The lug 20 on the
diaphragm is then forced into the aperture on the lower-
most end of the plunger and because of its conformation the
inturned edge of the said plunger will engage in the recess
in the said lug thus affixing the diaphragm to the end of
the plunger. A thin-bladed tool is slipped between the slots
in the sides of the plunger directly over the rubber plug 41
and by pressing down on this thin tool the rubber plug is
pressed down upon the soft rubber diaphragm lug causing it
to expand and firmly locking it in the end of the tube 23.
This rubber washer 41 serves the dual purpose of
locking the diaphragm onto the end of the plunger and of act-
ing as a buffer against which the pin 37 will strike in its
downward movement, the buffer being of sufficient thickness
so that when it is wedged down tightly onto the diaphragm
lug, the top face of it will extend above the lower edges of
the slots 32, and thus limit further upward movement of the
plunger.
After the assembly of the various elements of the
pump mechanism is completed, the diaphragm is turned inside
out and the top peripherial edge thereof is slipped over the
tapered face of the wedge member 26. The assembler then
grasps the tapered portion of the wedge member 26 in his
right hand and presses down on the plunger, whereupon the
pin 37, being suspended between the two apertures in the mem-
ber 26 will cause the spring 35 (which is limited by the
button 36 and the said pin 37) to be compressed.
It is to be noted that due to the fact the pin 37
is held in a stationary position, downward movement of the
plunger will cause the pin to approach the top cut-out portion
of the said slots 32. Upon reaching the uppermost limit of the

=== Page 35 === (confidence 0.99)
slot 32, the assembler rotates the plunger in a counter-
clockwise direction, whereupon the pin will ride over the
cam shoulder 34 and come to rest on the angle face of the
said cam shoulder, thus securely locking the plunger in
closed position. The unit is then fitted into the upper
end of the barrel so that the tapered face of the member
26 will bear against the peripheral edge of the diaphragm
which, in turn, contacts the complementally tapered annu-
lar shoulder 25 in the barrel. The annular nut 28 is then
threaded into the complemental threads on the interior of
the barrel until sufficient tension has been exerted on the
wedge member 26 to cause a tight liquid-proof joint between
the diaphragm and the complementally tapered ring portion
25 in the barrel.
The operation of the filling device is as follows:
The cap 30 is unscrewed from the end of the annu-
lar nut 28 and through the medium of the button 36 the plung-
er 23 is rotated in a clockwise direction thus releasing the
locking pin 37 from engagement with the locking cams in the
upper portion of the slots 32. The spring will then draw the
plunger upward and, of a consequence, will cause the diaphrag
to roll upon itself. The pen point is then inserted in the
inkwell and the plunger slowly reciprocated, preferably by
applying the index finger to the top of the cap and grasping
the barrel between the thumb and other fingers.
During the downward stroke against the pressure of
the spring, as stated before, the diaphragm will roll upon
itself from the position shown in Fig. 2 to a position sub-
stantially as shown in Fig. 1, displacing a certain amount of
air which is •jected through the tube 18, duct 17 and ink
channel 15. Upon relieving the finger pressure on the cap

=== Page 36 === (confidence 1.00)
36, the spring will force the plunger upwardly causing a
partial vacuum within the barrel and a consequent flow of
ink into the barrel under atmospheric pressure. The major
portion of the ink will enter the barrel through the ink
channel 16 but if the vacuum produced by the pump is suf-
ficient, a small quantity of said ink will also enter
through the air tubes 17 and 20.
During the initial periods of the second and sub-
sequent depressions of the plunger, the pressure in the
barrel will be raised above atmospheric and the ink which
stands in the air tube 18 (at approximately the same level
as the ink in the barrel) will be ejected. At this time,
a certain volume of ink will be forced from the barrel
through the ink channel 16 but due to the fact that there
is a much smaller quantity of ink in the tube 18 and a duct
17 than in the barrel, the ink will be exhausted from the
former before an appreciable volume of ink has escaped from
the barrel through the ink channel 16.
Upon continued downward movement of the plunger
after the ink has been exhausted from the tube 18 and the
duct 17, the air in the barrel, due to its much greater flu-
idity, will be forced from the barrel through the said air
tube 18 and the duct 17 with much more rapidity than ink is
ejected through the feed channels 16.
The ratio of the air and ink ejected is dependent
upon the speed of the depression stroke of the plunger and
the relative proportions between the areas of the duct 17
and the feed channel 16. The fact that a cross sectional
area of the ink channel 16 is less than that of the tube 18
and the duct 17 (and consequently its resistance to flow
greater) is a factor which aids in reducing the proportion
of ink expelled upon each depression of the plunger.

=== Page 37 === (confidence 1.00)
That the barrel is full of ink may be sensed be-
cause greater pressure is required to operate the plunger and
also because air is no longer ejected from the pen point.
When the pen is filled and on the last downward stroke of the
plunger, the plunger is rotated in a clockwise direction and
the consequent engagement of the pin 37 with the cams on the
upper end of the tube 23 will cause the plunger to be locked
in closed position thus permitting the assemblers to fit the
blind cap 30 thereover.
It is important to note that the annular member 28
is so constructed as to present a threaded head when the blind
cap is removed, which threaded head will take a threaded desk
set taper as well as the blind cap, this being an important
feature of the pens manufactured by us.
Should it at any time become necessary to remove
the filling device from the barrel for cleansing or repair,
it may be withdrawn as a unit by unscrewing the nut 28, a
special tool being required, which tool is adapted to clamp
on the threaded end of the said nut with sufficient tension
as to permit unscrewing of the nut and a consequent removal
of the entire unit.
While we have shown and described particular embodi-
ments of our invention, it will be apparent to those skilled
in the art that numerous variations and changes may be made
without departing from the principles thereof, and we therefore
wish our invention to embrace all such changes, variations,
modifications and substitutions as will naturally suggest
themselves to persons skilled in the art.

=== Page 38 === (confidence 0.99)
C L AI M S
1. A fountain pen of that type in
which the filling is effected by means of a
flexible diaphragm and a closure affixed to
the diaphragm, including means for locking the
diaphragm (19) on the plunger (23) and means
for locking the pump assembly comprising said
plunger and said diaphragm in closed condition
on the pen.
2. A fountain pen, as set forth in
claim l, including as part of the filling me-
chanism, a spring (35) in the interior of the
plunger and engaging at one end the end of the
plunger and at the other end an element which
is fixed relatively to the barrel of the pen,
said element (37) being adapted to effect the
locking of the plunger (23) in operative posi-
tion and being adapted to prevent accidental
displacement of the plunger relatively to the
barrel.
3. A fountain pen, as set forth in
claim 1, including means for fixedly securing
the margin of the diaphragm in predetermined
location in the interior of the barrel, the
means for locking the plunger against accident-
al displacement passing through the same means
which also clamp the margin of the diaphragm
so that upon release of said locking element
(37) from locking position, the spring (35)
will induce an outward movement of the plunger

=== Page 39 === (confidence 1.00)
while maintaining the diaphragm permanently
in engagement with the plunger as well as with
the barrel.
4. A fountain pen, substantially as
described and shown, and for the purpose set
forth.

=== Page 40 === (confidence 0.98)
Exlihit l - IH
5231.
Application No. 9319 of 1933 (Showa 8)
BUREAU NOTICE
This application is considered as similar
to the device shown in Japanese Utility Model Registration
No. 35o69, distributed in the Empire prior to this appli-
cation.
Though there are slight differences in
that in this application a suitable gap is left between
the barrel (12) and the plunger (£3) and further the top
end of the plunger is connected by means of a flexible
diaphragm with the inner end of the barrel while in the
citation the plunger (d) is closely in touch with the wall
of the barrel (a), such modifications are considered as
simple and to be a matter merely of mechanical design.
Therefore this application cannot be favourably viewed
for acceptance.

=== Page 41 === (confidence 0.79)
Exhchil A -II

=== Page 42 === (confidence 0.82)
The Parker Pen lompany.
Japon 10637-35.
Ce 1.

=== Page 43 === (confidence 0.92)
10
第百十三類
=4
5
國三第
3
登出
大正四年四月十七日
20
12
9/2
3
13
13
又本

=== Page 44 === (confidence 0.74)
mrucl leg.
1 35069
MCA
川新第三五〇六九
章
R
r1
11
17
ti
1
E
*
大阪市南區南福山町四十四番地
re
通
2
人
壹出
分
古5
5
八
7
外
正
年
峡
好
七
11
古に
二十九
国上5被
17
り同上出人
三
=外王
外イノ先

=== Page 45 === (confidence 0.94)
318.082
C
draphrapm  made ut rubber or other nirt pprogiable longitudiot move
suituble material. The diophragm has a meat by the wall ot the barel 12. The
trusto-conieal portioet 28 d a comtral slote s8 preferably project a hort die
prortion so which is prel rably mode tance helow the top suctare ot the contral
5 thicker than the portion 28 and has a portion 30 of the diapbragm o that he
70
shallow annulor grouve 2 formed therein latter may ave as a cuslioning buffer
to receive an inwardly extending annular ngainet pin f6 to limit upward movement
fange H4 of a tubular plunger 3Hi The of the pluneet.
portion 28 of the dlaphragm is joined i The operation of the filliny device is as
10 the contral portion 30 by an annula: follows:
75
trough-shaped portion 37 which forms an
The cap 6o i umserewed trom the ond
initial bend iu the diaphragm to aid in
of the leeve 42 swiveling on the plonger
causing the diaphragm to roll freely upon 38. whereupon the springy tit will force the
itself as will more fully appear herein- cap und plnnger ontwardly until the lower
15 after.
ands of slots 68 abut agninst the pin 06
80
The onter edge portion of the dia- as shown in Fig. 2. The pen point is
phragm is pressed or clamped against a then insertel in an ink well and the
tapering mmmular shoulder 38 formed in plunrer rapidly reciprocated. preferably
the barre r By the complementull: hy anplying the index finger to the top of
20 tapered ring portion 40 of a sleeve 42. the can and grasping the harrol hetween 88
The annular shonlder  and the ro- the thumh and other finger-
operating ring portion 40 are tapered so During the downward atroke against the
that the peripheral edge portion of the presure of the soring the diaphragin will
diaphragm is secured at an angle of less rolt upon itself from the position shown
25 than ninety deorees with the remainins in Fir. 2 to a nosition ubst intially as
8 90
portion of the diaphragm when the shown in Fig. 1. displacing a certain
plunger is at the unper end of its stroke. amount of air which is eiected thr ugh the
The sleeve 42 is forced into the hartel tube 24. duet 22 and lower portion 20 of
by on annulat nut 44 which is threaded the ink groove. Enon relievingr the tinger
30 in the end of the barrel and engnges a pressure on the cap fio. the sprine wilt
95
shoulder 48 on the sleeve 42. The nut 44 foree the plunger upwordly. u-ing a
bas kerfe 48 to receive a apanner wreneh. partial vacuum within th. horrel and con-
hommeatly Sow of ink into the harrel auder
barrel a suffcient di-tance so as to bo
atmoapherir presture The nk wittr he
35 alightly beneath the end of the barrel.
the barrel through the ink sgroove 21 or 100
The sleeve 42 hee an annular shoulder 50
through both the ink rroove 21 and air
at the upper ond of the tanered portion 40 tuhe 24. donending upon the degree of
which is of suhetantially the same din- varuum produred.
meter as the inside of the barrel and thus
During the initinl portions of the second
and subsequent depressions of the plunger, 105
40 prevents the portion 28 of the dianhraum
from slidine unwardly on the wedve por- the pressure in the barrel will be raived
tion 40 whon the dianhragm and sleeve pre
above atmosoherie and the ink which
being inserted into the harrel.
stood in the air tube 24 (at approximately
The wedge portion 40 has a tonered bore the same level as the ink in the harrel)
45 5? to mrovidke clearance for the dianhragm will be ejected. Ar this time a certain 110
when it is at the upper end of its stroke volume of ink will be foreed from the
The nlunger 30 his a plurality of harrel thronch the iuk oroove 20. 21 but
nirrow oneh end slnts 5 cut in its mmper due to the fact that there is a much
ind, the fongue nortions Between the slots snoller quantity of ink in the tube 24 and
50
huving smal' ontwardty extending heads duet 22 than in the lurrel, the ink will
115
or ffanges 56 formed thereon. These he exhansted from the former hefore an
flunges nmject into an annular gronte  appreciable volume of ink has recaped
anderrut ig a cap 60, or, as shown. formed from the barrel through the groove 20. 21.
at the end of a bushing 62 which is Upon continued downward movement of
50 pressed inte the cap. The lower end of the phunger after the ink has been 120
the can 60 is internally threaded and exhausted from the tube 24 and duct 22.
adapted to be screwed upon the end of the nir in the hurrel. due to its much
the sleeve 42.
grenter flnidity, will he forced from the
A compression coil spring 64 is con- harrel through the tube 24, duct 22 and
and a pin 66 which passes through lonegi- sjected from the groove 21. 20. The ratio
tudinal slots 68 formed in the plunger 38 of air and ink jected from the horrel is.
and the ende of which rest in cuit hle dependent uon the soood of rhe depres
he.lee drilled in the sleeso f2. The pin is sion stfoke of the plunger.

=== Page 46 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Eyhiht A-I
April 4th, 1934.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
9319 of 1933, Case 7, Your ref.
5231, Our File Number 4490.
In this case it seems to us it is ne-
cessary to argue that the utility model which the
Japanese Examiner has cited is very defective. In or-
der to permit the plunger of this utility model to
operate, it must be moved back and forth with slight
friction in the barrel. Now, when it is drawn back
in order to fill the barrel with ink, the ink will
not only enter the space in front of the plunger, but
it will also seep into the very small capillary an-
nular interspace between the plunger and the barrel.
That ink which seeps into this interspace naturally
will leak out of the longitudinal slot with which the
barrel is provided. While there is a longitudinal slot,
it does not serve the same purpose as the slot 32 in
the present application, which slot is in the plunger
itself, and this plunger is continuously closed against
the entry of ink.
The trouble in this case is that the
diaphragm 19 which takes the place of the plunger of
the Japanese utility model is also not very novel.
The Parker Pen Company has acquired patents on this
diaphragm action, and the present action is merely an
improvement on this prior diaphragm patent. We would,

=== Page 47 === (confidence 0.99)
therefore, combine claims 1 and 2 into a single claim
reading about as follows:
"1. A fountain pen of that type in
which the filling is effected by a flexible dia-
phragm, characterized by the fact, that the in-
ner edge of the diaphragm is secured to the bar-
rel by a locking ring (35) and a bushing between
which the edge of the diaphragm is clamped, while
the central portion of the diaphragm (19) is se-
cured to a plunger (23) closed at its bottom to
prevent the entry of ink into the plunger, the
plunger containing a spring (35), whereby auto-
matically upon release of said spring, the plung-
er is moved outward to deform the diaphragm and
to produce a vacuum in the interior of the pen.
"2. A fountain pen, as set forth in
claim 1, characterized by the fact, that the
plunger which is closed at both ends to prevent
the entrance of ink into the same is guided for
rectilinear movement by a transverse fixed pin
(37) entering a longitudinal slot (32) of the
plunger, said slot terminating in an enlargement
(34), whereby upon slight rotation of the plunger
at the end of its inward movement, the plunger
may be locked on said pin."
Please advise us that you have amended
the application.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 48 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Exhibit A-I
April 30th, 1934.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
9319 of 1933, Case 7, Your Ref.
5231, Our File No. 4490.
The principal attorney has placed at
our disposal a number of claims which were allowed in
this application in the United States. We give you
these claims as per the attached copy in order to sup-
plement our instructions of April 4th which go into
the subject matter more fully.
We can only repeat that the peculiar
slot , n shown in the barrel of the Japanese patent
5231 has no bearing on that locking device which in
the pre:nt application also is shown in the form of
an enlarged slot. In our case we have a spring which
forces the plunger outward, as shown in our Fig. 3
when the cap 30 is taken off the pen. Now, in order
to prevent this plunger from being forced suddenly
outward, we lock it in its inner position. In the
Japanese patent the plunger is locked in its outer-
most position although we do not see why it should be
locked in this position, for it will have the ef-
feet of producing a vacuum in the interior of the
pen, and if there is a vacuum in the interior of the
pen, the ink will not flow out. In order to let the
ink flow into the pen, we produce a vacuum in its in-
terior and the Japanese inventor also produces a

=== Page 49 === (confidence 0.99)
vacuum in the interior for that very purpose. Now,
the time for filling the pen is of course a very
short time only, say, about ten seconds or maybe
fifteen seconds, and the pen is filled once or twice
a week. There is, therefore, no necessity of lock-
ing the plunger in a position which it occupies for
such short time and at such long intervals only. But
there is a need for locking it in the position in
which it remains for most of the time, and this is
what we have done in our application.
We have flexible pump means, while the
prior invention has a rigid plunger. At least, a pa-
tent should be granted on the flexibility of this pump
diaphragm of our application, and upon the manner in
which this diaphragm is secured to a rigid part. The
rigid part is merely the carrier of the diaphragm. It
does not have to be guided with that close fit with
which a pump plunger must be guided. The entire
construction of the present device is so different
from that of the utility patent that we are certain
some claim should be allowed in the Japanese Office.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB
Enols.

=== Page 50 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Eyhist A-I
5231.
Application No. 9319 of Showa 8 (1933)
Bureau Notice.
A fountain pen provided with a cylindrical
plunger adapted to slide through a tail plug at the rear
end of the pen has been described in a publication, name-
ly, Utility Model Application Publication No. 25l75 of
1926, distributed in the Empire prior to this application.
The subject matter of this application
consists in that, in order to prevent the leakage of ink
around the plunger of the said device, a cylindrical dia-
phragm is secured at one end to the tail plug and at the
other end to the top end of the plunger so as to cover the
said plunger, and, further, in that a spring is contained
within the plunger whereby automatically the plunger is
moved outward.
However, the idea has already been publicly
known of preventing leakage of ink by means of a cylindri-
cal diaphragm covering a rod inserted through the tail
plug of a fountain pen, and also the provision of a spring
for automatically moving outward the said rod. (See, for
example, Utility Model Registration No. 64072.) From these
known ideas this application is considered to be carried
out easily by those skilled in the art without any inven-
tive faculty. Therefore this application cannot be viewed
favourably for acceptance.

=== Page 51 === (confidence 0.92)
Exhitit
A-DII
citatin
豊錄騎求ノ範圍 圖面二示ス如ク軸管巨後端二螺着セシメタル把頭二設ケタルインク」止桿Sノ外部二位置シチ自鶴吸入書ヲ設
實用新案 性質 作用及效果要領本實用新案 軸管後端二螺着セシメタル把頭豆二インク」止桿S及自動吸入書ヲ設ケヲ成
面略解圖面八本實用新案萬年筆斷面圖ヲ示ス
十五年
ケラ成ル萬年筆構造
行ハシメチ萬年筆內ニ充滿セシメ其助作ヲ輕便二取扱ハシメタルモノナッ
モノナリ而シテ吸入後八普通萬年筆二於ケル如ク止桿Sノ阻止及開口ニヨリテ使用スルモノトス故ニ本案ハ「インク」吸入ヲ自備的二
今把頭宜ヲ軸管巨二對シテ引出スコトニヨリテ自働吸入辦及止桿Sハ共二引出シノ狀態二動キ從力其容積丈ケインク」ヲ吸入スル
レルモノナリ而シラハペン」先正ハ滑辦戸ハ軸頭（Cハ鞘帽正ハ「キルク」類ョリ成ル填充物ナッ
實用新案出願公告第二五一七五號
「インク」吸入萬年筆
第百十一類二卿子附萬年筆
大阪市東區瓦町一丁目五
吳市濱田町十丁目七番地
代理人辨理士
出願人考案者
公出租
四書番號大正十四年第一四五五七號
廣番阪
大正十五年四月二十二日
地
田
井
久
外代
五
名藏
郎

=== Page 52 === (confidence 0.87)
V
實用新案出願公告第二五一七五號
C
H
y
S
P
百九十六
F

=== Page 53 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
EnhiltA-T
August 31st, 1934.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
9319 of 1933, Case 7, Your Ref.
5231, Our File No. 4490.
The Japanese utility patent No.
25,175 of 1926 merely shows a fountain pen with a
suction plunger. Of course we knew that it has been
proposed heretofore to draw the ink by suction from
the pen point into the interior of the barrel. We
know that this is old and our claims do not read
broadly on the combination of a barrel with a piston,
the outer diameter of which corresponds to the bore of
the barrel. It is even old, although it is not shown
in the references cited by the Examiner, to make use
of a diaphragm in the pump through which the ink 1s
drawn into the barrel. What we primarily claim is the
attachment of the outer edge of the diaphragm to a
plunger which is held in locked condition, and the
combination of this plunger with a spring so that upon
release of the lock the plunger will be forced outward
into the position shown in our Fig. 2 or 3 and will
thereby reduce the volume occupied by the diaphragm
when the plunger is inserted. This reduction of the
volume of the diaphragm from that shown in Fig. 1
to that shown in rig. 2 creates a partial vaouum in
the interior of the barrel, and the ink thereby is

=== Page 54 === (confidence 0.99)
caused to flow into the barrel. It flows upward in-
to the tube 18 and overflows the tube to fill that
space of the barrel which surrounds the tube. When
the plunger is then pushed inward again, the ink which
has been drawn into the barrel cannot be discharged thru
the tube 18. By letting the plunger snap back a num-
ber of times,--say for instance--six times from the
position shown in Fig. 1 to the position shown in
Fig. 2 or 3, the barrel gradually becomes filled up to
the top end of the tube 18, and this is enough for writ-
ing thousands of words.
It is essential that the plunger should
be locked in its innermost condition and that this
lock should readily be releasable. It is for this rea-
son that the tubular plunger is provided with the longi-
tudinal slot 34 which at its upper end is enlarged and
has a re-entrant edge at 32, Fig. 2, so that a very
slight twist of the plunger will cause the locking
pin 37 to enter this enlargement of the slot and to
hold the plunger against withdrawal. When the plung-
er is then twisted so that the locking pin 37 enters
the slot 32, the spring 35 forces the plunger out-
ward, and this of course is sufficient to exert a
suction in the interior of the barrel.
The Examiner makes reference to the
Japanese utility model No. 35069. But while this pa-
tent shows a tubular plunger, it does not show a dia-
phregm. The slot is provided in the barrel itself,
and if, therefore, the pen is accidentally inverted,
the ink will run out through the slot b, and this of
course will make the entire fountain pen absolutely

=== Page 55 === (confidence 0.99)
useless. This utility model patent would not have
been allowed if applications of this character would
have been examined as to their operativeness. The
device is inoperative for the reason that the slot b
communicates with the interior of the barrel in which
the ink is. As long as that is the case, the pen can-
not be carried in a pocket, for even if it is carried
upright, it may splash through the slot.
We can, therefore, not agree with the
Examiner that this reference constitutes an antici-
pation of our claims, and particularly it does not
anticipate the provision of a fountain pen wherein
the cavity of the barrel is closed on all sides. It
is not the barrel which is provided with a slot, but
the plunger. The barrel, therefore, constitutes a
hollow cylinder for receiving the ink, and this cylin-
der is closed on top by the diaphragm. The ink, there-
fore, can only enter and leave through the pen point
itself. A spilling of the ink is out of question. The
locking feature is combined with the tubuiar plunger.
But this tubular plunger is out of communication with
the interior of the barrel. The diaphragm forms the
partition wall.
The other reference No. 64,072 also
has nothing to do with the present application, for
it is not a diaphragm pump. It has been found through
practical experience that all plunger pumps are use-
less in fountain pens. The acid in the ink attacks
the piston and interferes with the tightness. In the
diaphragm pump, however, the diaphragm itself does

=== Page 56 === (confidence 0.98)
not have to be tight. The outer edge of the diaphragm
is secured to the barrel at a marginal point which
does not come into contact with the ink at all.
This outer edge is clamped against the barrel by the
tapering ring 25, Fig. 2, combined with the clamping
cone 38, Fig. 3. These two parts are fitted into the
barrel after the margin of the diaphragm has been
clamped between them. The whole assembly, therefore,
comprising the clamping ring 38, the diaphragm 19
and the conical collar 25 can be produced outside
the barrel and this assembly can then be forced by
a driving fit into the top of the barrel and can be
pressed inward by means of the screw cap 28, Fig. 1
until this assembly has reached the proper position.
The manner in which, therefore, this fountain pen can
be produced is greatly superior to the method of pro-
ducing the fountain pens having diaphragm pumps which
were known heretofore.
You will see from these remarks that
the improved fountain pen which is sold in this coun-
try and in almost every country under the globe under
the trade-mark "VACUMATIC" is far superior to anything
that has been produced in this line heretofore. We
count on you to argue very strenuously against the
rejection of this application, and would thank you
to advise us that the application has been accepted.
We secured the acceptance of this application in
every country, and we trust that Japan aleo will re-
eognise the value.
Very respeetfully,
T-EOB

=== Page 57 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
EyhibitA-IX
5231.
Appl1cation No. 9319 of Showa 8 (1933)
Rejection Notice.
This application is rejected on the grounds stated
in the Bureau Notice of 1lth May, 1934.
In the argument, applicant insists, by enumerating the
differences in construction between this application and
the citation, that this application constitutes a novel
invention.
However, both the idea of preventing leakage of ink
by covering with a cylindrical diaphragm a rod extending
through the end plug of a fountain pen, and the idea of
providing a spring for the purpose of automatically draw-
ing out the said rod, are publicly known. Therefore, the
idea, as in this application, of so modifying the known
fountain pen in which a cylindrical plunger is provided ex-
tending through the end plug of the pen as to clamp one end
of the cylindrical diaphragm to the said plug and the other
end to the plunger end to cover the plunger, the object be-
ing to prevent leakage of ink around the said plunger, and
also the idea of providing a spring in the interior of the
plunger in order to automatically move the plunger outwards:
these ideas ean be carried out if desired by those skilled
in the art from the said known ideas without any inventive
faculty. The provision of the said automatic spring within
the oylinder and also of the locking means for the plunger
are merely a matter of mechanical design wmich does not
censtitute a nevel invention.

=== Page 58 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
ExhilitA=X
5231.
Utility Model
Application No. 10637 of Showa 10 (1935)
Bureau Notice.
1. Amend the claim and specification in such a manner
that the subject matter of this utility model resides in
a construction more restricted than that described in the
claim now on file.
2. When making the above amendment, make clear the dif-
ferences in construction between this utility model and the
references cited in the previous Bureau Notices, and, fur-
ther, describe fully the funetions and advantages obtained
by the constructional differences.
3. The specification being too redundant, must be condens-
ed so that the features directly connected with the subject
of this application.
4. Cancel figure 2.

=== Page 59 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Ewhitht A-
June 18th, 1935.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
10637/35, Case 7, Your Ref. 5231,
Our File 4490.
You perhaps can take care of the re-
vision of the specification by stating that the prin-
cipal conductive features of the invention are to be
seen in the provision of means for locking safely the
filler plunger in its inward position as well as for li-
miting the outward movement of the filler plunger so as
to avoid that upon removal of the cap of the pen, the
spring controlled filler plunger should suddenly be ad-
vanced by the spring to extracted position. The con-
structive features of the utility model also reside in
the novel assembly of the filler plunger with the means
for clamping the outer margin of the diaphragm in posi-
tion and for holding this entire assembly at the rear
and of the pen.
The above, statement, we believe, could
take the place of the statement of objects which occurs
in the top half portion of our page 2.
The utility model patent No. 35069
doss net diselose any diaphragm, but a plunger con-
struetion, and since the plunger becomes untight dur-
ing operation owing to the attack of the acids in the
ake, the diaphragm construction of the present appli-

=== Page 60 === (confidence 0.98)
• 2.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
cation is to be preferred. This diaphragm construc-
tion also makes it possible to provide a spring between
the filler plunger and a fixed abutment in the pen,
while the provision of a spring in connection with the
piston of the utility model No. 35069 would not be of
great advantage.
The utility model No. 64,O72 also does
not have a filler diaphragm adapted to produce a suction
through increasing the attenuated space to the rear of
the filler tube in the pen. The diaphragm structure,
therefore, combined with the spring on the plunger is
of advantage.
The spring also is lacking in the utili-
ty model No. 25,175. This is also a fountain pen in
which there is neither a diaphragm nor a spring, but
there is a valve member which normally closes or near-
ly closes the flow of ink to the pen point, and the with-
drawal of the plunger creates only a very small addi-
tional volume or cavity in the barrel of the pen.
We did not think that our specifioa-
tion was of excessive length, but if you desire to re-
duee it, kindly note that the parts shown in Fig. 2
for clamping the outer margin of the diaphragm in
position are quite important. The plunger 23 is an
ardinary sheet metal tubing. Its lower end is bent in-
ard se as to srip an enlargement in the center of the
diaphrage. This diaphregm, therefore, is hela in the
ater by the tume ss. Now, the ciroular diaphragm is

=== Page 61 === (confidence 0.98)
·# 3.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
folded in the manner of a bag upon itself, and the out-
er margin is held between the two parts 25 and 27. In
this form the entire assembly can be introduced into
the rear end of the pen barrel, and when then the screw
cap 28 is screwed home, it acts on a shoulder of the
bushing 26 and drives it down, so that the clamping ef-
fect on the outer margin of the diaphragm is still in-
creased.
Of primary importance is the enlargement
34 at the outer end of the slot 32. Unless the tube 23
is slightly twisted, the holding pin 37 cannot enter into
the slot 32. There is, therefore, a safety measure, and
this should constitute one of the principal claims.
Perhaps we do not need a desoription of
the pen point 15 and the nose 14 and the channels 16 and
17 shown at the front end of the pen. But the other
parts are all very important and we do not like to
omit them from the specification. The enlargement 34
on the slot 32 and the assembly holding the outer mar-
gin of the diaphragm in position are partioalarly well
kmown in Fig. 2. We, therefore, hesitate to give up
Fig. 2. We would rather give up Figs. 4 and 5 of the
present application.
Kindly let us know whother you have
amended the case.
Very respeetfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 62 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
Exhilt-AT
5231.
Application No. 10637 of Showa 10 (1935)
Bureau Notice.
1. Amend the specification and the claim in such
a manner that there may be elucidation of the differences
in operation and effect between this application and
British Patent Specification No. 3l8982, already distributed
in this Empire prior to this application. Also modify the
claim so that it may clearly describe the concrete construo-
tional feature for obtaining above-mentioned operation and
effect.
2. Page 2, line 24, after the word "position" cancel
semicolon and substitute comma therefor and add a descrip-
tion reading "with the compression coil spring removed."

=== Page 63 === (confidence 0.89)
The kes Pen Comfary,
Parken tin
lompany
The
35.
右勝本八原本卜相違十キコトヲ認證又
特許局屬木村善七
昭和拾年八月廿壹日

=== Page 64 === (confidence 0.81)
144
5
1.5
三五〇六九
1
2
4.
出
大
大
14
i
D
7
:4
124
1111
1
1
.7
1.
1111
14
一九
0
11
リ
i川
1
1
川
U
1)
55
1
郎
4
111
力
17
人
7
11

=== Page 65 === (confidence 0.86)
10
泰百十三
8
5
14
3
141

=== Page 66 === (confidence 0.98)
Fig. 2.
Fig. 4.
60
58
78
64
72270
36
36
64
74
76
66
48
3508
66
40
28
12
28
00
66
222
26
37
42
34
40
38
24
37
32
30
52
37
Fig.5.
12
24
76
12
78
74
64
24
72
70
Fig. 3.
68
14
21
36
48
80
16
44
46
82
64
22
66
80
48
30
12
-18
12
28
40
42
68
20
66
24

=== Page 67 === (confidence 0.99)
Fig.9.
Fig 7.
120
Fig. 10.
48
64
130
126
12
120
128
124
-126
66
116
124
44
122
Fig. 6.
36
118
-122
114
112
116
-128
110
76
132
90
108
80
64
90
88
114
132
112
7
106
108
7
102
106
104
84
104
66
8
98
8
98
68
68
30
28
100
Fig.8
92
36
-96
94
28
12

=== Page 68 === (confidence 0.00)


=== Page 69 === (confidence 0.77)
Ephint XII

=== Page 70 === (confidence 0.95)
TENT SPECIFICATION
 Dt (United S): 8pt 14, 1928
318.982
Complete Accepted: Jan. 23, 1930.
OPLETE SPECIFICATION.
5.5
Improvements in or relating to Fountain Penk
科计
1. A Onans Da Br, a citizen ing ita central portion to deform the seal-
Inta (ourt Madison. State f Wisconsin,The foregoing and other 
performed, to be particularly described inges in whinh
nd ascertained in and by the following Fig. I is a central lomgitudimal metion
toment :-
My inventin relates generally to foun- form 
tain pens and more particularly to fßing
is incorporat
muons therefor.
The principal objects of my invention
are to provide:
device only, showing the perte im
First: An improved filling device which
operating position;
may be asily operated with one hand;
Fig. à la a tranaverse sectional view
Second A flexible diaphrapm to seal
taken on the line 8 8 of Fig. 2;
70
one end of the barrel, thereby to eliminate
Fig. 4 is a central longitudinal section
the possibility of ink leakage;
of a modified form of flling device, with
Third A filling device in which most the parte in normal inoperative position:
the parts may be made of metal and are
Fig. 5 is a smilar view showing the
 from costat wi the sak
Fourth A cap for the end of the barrel,
the cap being rotatably secured to the of  secoud modifed form of filling der
planger of the filling device
Figs. 7 and 8 are transverse sectional
Fifth A cap which is automatically views thereof taken on lines 7—7 and
raised with the plunger as the cap is un- 8 8. respectively, of Fig. 6;
80
mrewed from the barrel;
Fig. 9 is a central longitudinal section
Sixth A illing device which may be
of a fountain pen in which a third modi-
moved from the barrel as a unit;
fied form of filling device is incorporated,
Seventh A filling device, the parts of
the parts being in normal inoperative
which may be easily manufactured and
position : and
85
assembled
Fig. 10 is a similar view of the filling
A filling device which takes up
device shown in Fig. 9, with the parts
y n eintively sanl portion of the
thereof shown in operated position.
mterior f the barrel, thus permitting the
The pen as shown in Figs. 1, 2 and 3
atulizat of a greater volume of the
90
barrel as an ink reservoir:
which is threaded to receive the msual
Ninth: A filling device in which the
section 14. into which a feed bar 16 and
haphragm is wedged in place, thus insur-
mg tightness without the use of cement or
manner.
adhesive
Tenth A filling device in which the
feeding groove 20, 21 andan elbow she
forer of a spring is utilized ou the suction
air duct 22 formed therein, the air duct
stnke and
joining the ink groove at a point batw
Eleventh A filling device which is dur-
sbia may be economically manufactured,
air tube 24 is pressed jato the upper and
100
and mas he easily and quickly operated.
of the duct 22 and extends upwardly inte
Io rdance with the present inven-
the harral to within a short distaméo of
Iton the mproved fountain pen has writ-
the uoper end thereof. The feed be
ing mean at one end of a barrel which is
air tube nre of a type which is well known
howed at the other end hy a flexible seal-
in the art.
ns member having means for manipulat-
(Price1)
by a pliable sealing member or flexible

=== Page 71 === (confidence 0.82)
.982
The Feand
prodingd
dvantageviousty
ribed un ther the doww troke of
hunger of the lae ted by the to
 of the lowerm st thread in the eap
t oppermost threaed n the she ve
 de rensing the plunger displace
easime the number of strokes
ll the hrrel
76
1o t mtn Figs 4 and ) the
phonger 0 hss a portion 72 of increased
meter hh  threaded in a bushing
1
1 tixed in n rap 7 The upper end of
the plunger is closed and has a laterally
80
tending annular flange 78 which is of
11..h.
greater diameter than the inside diameter
toIhe tert
the bushing 74.
ciente wodng urface to the
A. shown in Fig 4. th- bushing 74 is
plu
tha he m vement ot the
normally threaded over the end of sleeve
latt.
tl portin of the
S0 which is held in the barre! by a nut 82.
dia
line
When the cap 76 is unserewed from the
sleev t ull nultancously unscrew from
 F
plungr  Continud rotation of
haprelensed fromthe 0
ad ot the leee will raise the cap
he pchaoee the plungerThis
menutt theaps limited b
ment re Aange 8 with the
dnin
95
Wt tepart th posrtion
poobl srnce
rr r plempsing or repair the device the plunger ay uove a distance egual
 the abut 100
n Fig
pe
41
n
e presré
the sleeve
19nd 10 com.
 90 the lower end
11
 huaded to re eive a phug
 fitted in the plug
on formed therein
apen and tube
ehinnel 96 120
t10) in fxed
lburne
beper and of
dofor n diec 104 125
lr f motehe100
mitablr
How freel
the
17

=== Page 72 === (confidence 0.98)
C O P Y
Exhitit A=XV
September 20th, 1935.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
10,637 of 1935, Ca8e 7, Your
Ref. 5231, Our File No. 4490.
The British patent No. 318,982 is a
patent owned by The Parker Pen Company. This pen has
been improved by the construction which is incorporated
in the present Japanese application. Of importance for
comparison is Fig. 6 of the British patent, because
this figure shows a diaphragm instead of a plunger for
pouring the ink into the interior of the barrel. When
in Fig. 6 of the British patent the cap 76 is unscrewed,
the sleeve 88 is immediately pushed upward by the spring
64. It jumps away out until the outward movement is
stopped by the pin 66. The applicant in the present ap-
plication desired to provide some means for preventing
this sudden outward movement of the sleeve. In our case
the sleeve 23 is provided with a longitudinal slit 32.
This slit also forms a part of the sleeve 88 of the
British patent. But in our case the slit is enlarged
at its upper end. When, therefore, the sleeve 23 is
pressed home into the position shown in our Fig. 1, and
the sleeve is then slightly twisted, the stop pin 37
enters the enlargement at the upper end of the slit,
and if in our case the cap 30 is unscrewed, the sleeve
23 is locked against this sudden movement. The operator

=== Page 73 === (confidence 0.99)
.#2.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
then twists the sleeve slightly until the slit 32 re-
ceives the pin 37, and only then is the spring 35 free
to push the sleeve outward into the position shown in
our Fig. 2 or 3. We have, therefore, provided in our
case a safety means in combination with a self-acting
spring, and it is this feature that we desire to direct
our own application to.
In the Japanese utility model No. 35069
there is no self-acting element as a spring which would
force the plunger outward. The movement of the plunger
is effected by a ring I which surrounds the barrel. That
is a very bad feature because since the slit goes thru
the barrel, the ink may leak through the slit, and in
that way the arrangement would become a very awkward and
poor arrangement.
We, therefore, are willing to state in
our own specification that the present fountain pen is an
improvement on the pen of that type which is described
in British patent No. 318,982, particularly in Fig. 6.
The pen, therefore, comprises a diaphragm instead of
a plunger for alternately reducing the pressure in
the interior of the barrel and restoring the pressure
to its former value. The variations in the shape of
the diaphregm are produced by a reciprocating sleeve
to which the diaphragm is attached and which is under
eontrol of a spring. While in the British patent the
epring is immeaiately released upon removal of the oap
 the pen, the present invention provides a locking
on the sleeve for releasing the sleeve and spring

=== Page 74 === (confidence 0.99)
3.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
solely after this locking means has been freed. The
claim should be directed to the provision of an enlarge-
ment on the upper end of that slit which serves as a guid-
ing means for the pin determining the inward and outward
movement of the sleeve.
We would thank you to file a restricted
claim with a suitable argument based on the present let-
ter and to advise us that the case has been amended.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 75 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Notes of Opposition against Grant.
Opponent:- Shuichi Sasaki,
No. 12 Haramachi, Koishikawa-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
Applicant:- The Parker Pen Company.
Corner of Court and Division Streets, Janesville,
State of Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Indication of Case:-
Opposition against registration of Utility model application
No. lo637 of Showa lo(l935) for "Fountain Pen" - Utility model
Application Publication No. 19337 of Showa 10(1935).
Definite Statement:-
Decision is solicited to the effect that this application
be rejected.
Grounds for Opposition:-
1. The subject matter of the present Utility Model resides
in the construction of a fountain pen consisting in that an
inner edge of a diaphragm is secured to a barrel by a locking
ring and a bushing between which the edge of the diaphragm is
clamped, while the central portion of the diaphragm is secured
to a plunger closed at its bottom to prevent the entry of ink
into the plunger which contains a compression spring abutting
at one end against the button at the plunger head, and at the
other end on a transverse fixed pin which enters a longitudinal
slot of the plunger having at its buter end an enlargement.
In other words, the present Utility Model is considered
to consist of the following constituent elements,
(A) a construction in which an inner edge of a diaphragm
is secured to a barrel by a locking ring and a
bushing between which the edge of the diaphragm is
clamped,
(B) a construction in which the central portion of the
diaphragm is secured to a plunger closed at ite
bottom to prevent the entry of ink into the plamger
(0) a construction in which the plunger contains a com-

=== Page 76 === (confidence 0.99)
pression spring abutting at one end against the
button at the plunger head and at the other end
on a transverse fixed pin.
(D) a construction in which the pin enters a longitud-
inal slot of the plunger having at its outer end
an enlargement.
2. However, a fountain pen having a construction similar
to that of the present Utility Model has already been public-
ly known in the Empire prior to the date of application, name-
ly the 6th September, 1933. Thus, the construction mentioned
under (A) is similar to that described in the specification
of British Patent No. 3l8982; hence it does not constitute
a novel Utility Model. Though in this application there is
provided a locking ring, yet the ring is fitted and secured
in the pen barrel; hence this construction is quite the same
as that in the said British Patent Specification in which the
pen barrel itself is formed with a conical surface between
which and the sleeve is clamped and secured the inner edge
of the diaphragm. The object of the tapered form of the
locking ring in this application is merely to provide a coni-
cal surface in the pen barrel and to clamp and secure the
inner edge of the diaphragm between the said surface and the
sleeve. Consequently, the question whether a separate tap-
ered locking ring is fitted and secured in the barrel to
form a conical surface, or the said conical surface is formed
on the pen barrel itself is merely a matter of manufacture,
and it is considered that the construction is quite the same
in both cases; henee snch a matter cannot be considered to
constitute a novel Utility Model.
In the second place, the construction deseribed under (B)
mem also been clearly kmown by the said British Patent Spesi-
fimation Ne. Sla98s. In the said British Patent, too, the 

=== Page 77 === (confidence 0.99)
tral portion of the diaphragm is secured to a plunger
and the plunger is closed at its bottom to prevent the
entry of ink into the plunger.
Further, the construction under (C) has also been
publicly known by Figure 6 of the said British Patent Spe-
cification. According to the said figure, it is recogniz-
ed that the plunger contains a spring which abuts at one
end against the plunger head and at the other end on a
transverse fixed pin; this construction being quite the
same as that in this application. In addition it is clear
that the said pin enters the longitudinal slot of the
plunger so as to slide up and down the said plunger. By
the said figure it is not clear whether the said slot has at
its end an enlargement or not.
However, the idea of providing the longitudinal slot
of the plunger with an enlarged opening or an enlargement
member so as to lock the pin can be carried out easily if
desired by those skilled in the art and cannot be considered
to constitute a novel Utility Model. Furthermore, the idea
of forming an enlarged engagement member, as above mentioned,
at the end of the longitudinal slot of the plunger, has al-
ready been publicly known by the specification of the regis-
tered Utility Model No. 35069; hence this feature cannot
constitute a novel Utility Model.
3. Summarizing the above statements, a fountain pen having
a construction similar to that of the present Utility Model
Application has been publicly known prior to its application
by British Patent Specification No. 31a,982, there existing
slight differences which consist in that in this application
the tapered locking ring is formed separately from the pen
barrel and inserted in and seoured to the latter and that the
longitudinal slet of the plunger has at its end an enlarged

=== Page 78 === (confidence 0.99)
engagement member. However, the former is not in any way
different in construction and function from the known form
and the latter is well known by the specification of Regis-
tered Utility Model No. 35069; there is no novel feature
amounting to constitution of a novel Utility Model.
Furthermore, a fountain pen similar in construction
and function to that of this Utility Model Application has
already been manufactured and sold since about 1930 by
Kozo Ishii of No. 93 of Tajimacho Asakusa-ku, Tokyo.
For these reasons, this Utility Model Application can-
not justify registration.
Decision is therefore solicited to the effect that this
application is rejected.
Method of Proofs:-
1. British Patent Specification No. 318982.
2. Specification of Registered Utility Model No. 35o69.
Concerning the above two specifications, reference is to
be made to those kept in the Patent Bureau Library.
3. Witness:- Kozo Ishii of No. 93, Tajimacho, Asakusa-ku,
Tokyo.
The above witness, when desired, will make declaration.
Dated: the 22nd February, 1936.

=== Page 79 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Exhalt A-XVI
September 5th, 1936.
Mr. W. A. De Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
10,637 of 1935, Case 7, Your
Ref. 5231, Our File No. 4490.
Opposition against Utility Model.
The application must be definitely de-
fended against this opposition. We of course have
been of the opinion that for the grant of a utility
model in Japan it would not be necessary to prove the
same degree or height of invention as is necessary
for an ordinary patent. If the same degree of inven-
tion should be necessary for this form of protection,
we really would not see just what the value is in di-
viding the patents into patents of invention and uti-
lity models. In order to deny protective value to a
utility model invention, the opposer would actually
have to prove that exactly the same structure which
we have shown in our utility model is met in the prior
art. But if there are deviations in our utility model
from the prior art, then these deviations should be
covered, particularly if the claims are sufficient to
bring out this distinction.
We did not know just which claims had
seem eppended to the utility model. Our imstructions
of Beptember 20, l935 point out the differences be-
tween the prier art, and we were of the opinion that
yem filed solely one olaim, as given in your letter

=== Page 80 === (confidence 0.97)
•# 2.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
of October 30, 1935. If that claim only has been filed,
then we cannot quite understand why the opposer men-
tions four features each of which in our opinion war-
rants patentability, and why they should not be accept-
od.
First, the mounting of the diaphragm
outer edge in the barrel. From our Fig. 2 it will be
seen that the outer edge of the diaphragm 19 is clamp-
ed between the bushing 26 and the tapering thimble or
ring 25. The outer edge of the diaphragm, therefore,
is firmly held between these two parts so that the
entire diaphragm cannot be greater in its outer cir-
cumference than the outer circumference of the taper-
ing ring 25. Considering that the central portion of
the diaphragm, namely, the enlargement 20 is secured
to the plunger sleeve 23, we have now a self-contained
structure comprising the plunger sleeve 23, the dia-
phragm 19 and the two holding rings 25, 26. This self-
contained structure can be assembled outside the barrel
and then can be pushed into the barrel as far as it
is desired to place it. The mounting of the diaphragm
is, therefore, treatly facilitated and the opposer
is entirely wrong when he mentions against A the
British patent No. 318,982. In all of the construo-
tions shown in this British patent, the outer edge
of the diaphragm is absolutely free before the dia-
weam is inserted into the barrel of the pen. There
is me melf-contained strueture shown in any of these
medifieations which would include in addition to the

=== Page 81 === (confidence 0.98)
...3.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
plunger sleeve the diaphragm and an inner ring, also an
outer ring between which and the inner ring the outer
edge of the diaphragm is clamped. In all of these
structures shown by Dahlberg, the outer edge of the
diaphragm is uncovered before it is inserted. It is
clamped between the barrel itself and the inner mount-
ing ring. This of course is entirely different from
that whach we have pointed out in our specification.
It is not only a question of adding a tapered ring.
but it is a question of making the entire mounting
structure for the diaphragm a self-contained structure
which can be completed outside the barrel with the
edges of the diaphragm held in that formation which
it is to occupy after insertion into the barrel. It
is much easier in this manner to mount the diaphragm
than in the Dahlberg patent.
The second point mentioned by the op-
poser could possibly be eliminated, that is, we could
state we do not claim this particular feature of hold-
ing the central point of the diaphragm in association
with the plunger. But it should be remembered even
in connection with this alteration as it is presented
in our utility model that at the foot of the plunger
mbove the central kmob of the diaphragm there is a rub-
ber washer 41. In our specification on page 6 we have
demcribed the funotion of this rubber washer. It serves
two purposes: 1) It presses the central kmob 20 of the
diaphragm down against the flange. 2) It acts as a
buffer for the pin 37. Wow, in the Dahlberg patent
there is no such buffer. There is no means for holding

=== Page 82 === (confidence 0.99)
Re The Parker Pen Company.
the central portion. of the diaphragm securely clamped
on the flange.
We again advise you that the Dahlberg
patent No. 318,982 in all countries in which it has
been taken out is the property of The Parker Pen Com-
pany, and the present construction is an improvement
on the Dahlberg patent and is of considerable value.
In order to invalidate a utility model
the invalidating structure must be almost identical
with the utility model itself or resemble it much
more closely. We have added to the holding means
for the central point an additional member which has
two functions of great importance, just as we have
added an additional member for holding in position
the outer edge of the diaphragm. Neither of these
additional members, namely, the tapering ring 25 or
the rubber washer 41, are found in the Dahlberg pa-
tent. And since each of these additional members
greatly improves the mounting, the durability and
lengthens the life of the diaphragm, the entire struo-
ture has been greatly improved. The opposer's two
points, therefore, are entirely misleading.
With reference to the point C raised
by the opposer, he compares this structure with the
disclosure of Fig. 6 of the Dahlberg British patent.
Here egain the opposer is entirely wrong. In Fig. 6
of the British patent the following will take place:
hen the eap 76 1s unscrewed, the spring 64 will im-
sately mep the inner plunger 86 outwardly over the

=== Page 83 === (confidence 0.98)
•.. 5.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
full length of its movement. When the spring has suf-
ficiently expanded, then this pin 66 shown in Fig. 6
of British patent impinges against the central portion
30 of the diaphragm. Now, it will be seen by compar-
ing this with our Fig. 3 that the spring never im-
pinges against the transverse pin 37. There is in-
terposed a spring follower in the form of a short
bushing 39. Therefore, it is neither the spring
which impinges on the transverse pin 37 nor the cen-
tral cap 20 of the diaphragm that impinges from the
opposite side against this pin. We have interposed
the bushing 39 between the spring 35 and the pin 37,
and we have interposed the rubber washer 4l between
the central knob 20 of the diaphragm and the pin 37.
By interposing the bushing 39 between the lower end
of the spring 35 and the pin 37, the lower end of the
spring never rests directly on the pin. If you will
compare our Fig. 1 with Fig. 6 of the Dahlberg patent,
you will notice that in the Dahlberg patent the spring
is cut into at the pin 66. In our case it is the
bushing 39 which takes this cutting stress, and hence
the life of the spring and the life of the pin are
lengthened through the addition of this bushing.
Point C as advanced by the opposer,
therefore, also is entirely wrong, and there is suffi-
cient inventive quality in that structure which we
have ever Dahlberg struoture to warrant the issuance
Against peint 4 which has been pre-

=== Page 84 === (confidence 0.99)
Re The Parker Pen Company.
tected in all countries where we filed this applica-
tion, the opposer cites the Japanese utility model
No. 35069. It is true that this utility model covers
a fountain pen with two telescoping elements, one of
which is guided by a longitudinal sleeve. This sleeve
has at one end a lateral enlargement, so that after
telescoping the movable part to that end of the sleeve
and twisting it slightly, the movable part is locked
by a sort of bayonet lock against withdrawal. This
prior fountain pen, however, did not have any spring
controlled plunger for supporting a diaphragm. Dahl-
berg shows in Fig. 6 a spring controlled plunger 86
with a longitudinal slot 68 in it. There is no means
shown for locking the plunger in its extended position
nor do any of the other Figs. 1 to 5 show any locking
means for the spring controlled plunger. In our uti-
lity model we were the first ones for providing lock-
ing means for a spring controlled plunger. We do not
desire protection for a bayonet lock in connection with
a fountain pen, but we desire protection for a bayonet
lock in connection with a spring controlled plunger.
The opposer was unable to show this feature, and as
long as it cannot be shown, we maintain that our
claim as outlined in your letter of October, 1935,
should be allowed.
We must add that the Parker pen is
probably the most popular pen in the United States,
and in this country the claims of Parker Pen are re-
seted by every other mammfacturer of fountain pens.

=== Page 85 === (confidence 0.98)
•# 7.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
This improvement covered by the Japanese utility model
has been protected in almost all European countries,
and of course also in the United States. We see no
reason why it should not be protected in Japan in the
form of a utility model.
The Japanese manufacturers have imi-
tated every detail of the fountain pen. Even the
trade-marks have been infringed in Japan, and con-
siderable quantities of these fountain pens have been
exported from Japan to other countries. This attempt
to defeat the utility model to which we are absolutely
entitled undoubtedly also has its origin in the desire
to continue this very unfair competition of foreign
manufacturers with the Parker pen.
We give you these comments not in or-
der to forward them to the Patent Office but we want
this case defended on its merits, and in our opinion
it is sufficiently meritorious not only to afford
patent protection, but certainly to afford a valid
protection on the Gebrauchsmuster.
We would thank you to advise us
that you have answered the opposition.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 86 === (confidence 0.97)
•# 7.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
This improvement covered by the Japanese utility model
has been protected in almost all European countries,
and of course also in the United States. We see no
reason why it should not be protected in Japan in the
form of a utility model.
The Japanese manufacturers have imi-
tated every detail of the fountain pen. Even the
trade-marks have been infringed in Japan, and con-
siderable quantities of these fountain pens have been
exported from Japan to other countries. This attempt
to defeat the utility model to which we are absolutely
entitled undoubtedly also has its origin in the desire
to continue this very unfair competition of foreign
manufacturers with the Parker pen.
We give you these comments not in or-
der to forward them to the Patent Office but we want
this case defended on its merits, and in our opinion
it is sufficiently meritorious not only to afford
patent protection, but certainly to afford a valid
protection on the Gebrauchsmuster.
We would thank you to advise us
that you have answered the opposition.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 87 === (confidence 0.99)
The attached sheaf of papers, XhIBIT C,
furnishes still stronger evidence of treatment
accorded to American applicants by Japanese au-
thorities which is in glaring contrast with that
accorded in other countries to non-nationals.
With thousands of products traveling
through the international markets, the trade-
mark of the manufacturer or of the dealer has be-
come of the greatest importance. To refer to on-
ly a few products of American origin, it may be
mertioned that the trade-mark "Kodak" or "Ford"
or "Victor", the monogran of the General Electric
Company, and many others, have become a designetion
of standard quality. The property in these designa-
tions naturally must be guarded very jealously
by the owners, for otherwise spurious goods will
enter into competition and will gradually destroy
the respect or recognition which these goods en-
joyed in all parts of the world. Through special
provisions adopted by the International Union for
Industrial Property, the member countries of the
Union bind themselves to respect the name of foreign
corporations without insisting upon compliance with
formalities, as for instance, registration of these
names in the respective countries. In spite of
this exceptional position which the name enjoy,
many manufacturers will still consider their names
-1-

=== Page 88 === (confidence 0.99)
either their full trade-marks or as part of
their trade-marks, and have them registered as
such in their home country, and subsequently also
in foreign countries.
The name "PARKER" as applied to foun-
tain pens is one of the outstanding examples of
a trade-mark of international repute.
The name "PARKER" had been registered
in almost every country where the law stipulates
the protection of trade-marks by registration.
This name is registered in Japan under Trade-Mark
Nos. 150,273 and 171,867 for different goods and
also in different forms.
In the fall of October, 1935, the Par-
ker Pen Company learned that trade-mark applica-
tions had been filed in Japan to cover the trade-
marks "Park" and "Park Minor" on goods of a descrip-
tive quality similar to those produced by The Par-
ker Pen Company.
A cable was, therefore, dispatched on
October 14, 1935, Exhibit C1, instructing the Ja-
panese attorneys in Osaka to oppose the registra-
tion of these marks. It is obvious that the ge-
neral public, even in an English speaking country,
upon encountering trade-marks "Parker," "Park",
and "Park Minor," would be led to the belief that
these trade-marks which are all very similar to
each other in pronunciation and appearance, are
owned by the same manufacturer, especially since
they are applied to similar goods. The Japanese
-2-

=== Page 89 === (confidence 1.00)
law authorizes parties who feel themselves in-
jured through the acceptance of trade-marks sini-
lar to their own, to oppose the final registration
of these similar marks. In sending the cable to
Japan and authorizing this opposition, The Parker
Pen Company, therefore, took effectively and prompt-
ly those steps which in other countries would have
left the company in possession of the trade-mark
rights granted by the registration.
A confirmatory letter was sent on the
same day, Exhibit Cz, giving the reasons for the
opposition.
Ordinarily the trade-marks "Park" and
"Park Minor" should have been accepted by the
Japanese Patent Office solely if the applicant
for registration had had the right to use the
name "Park", that is, if the applicant's own name
had been "Park." Otherwise the resemblance be-
tween this applied for mark and the registered
mark should have led to the rejection of the ap-
plication. There is especially no use in accept-
ing an application "Park Minor", for even if the
applicant's name would have been "Park", and if the
Patent Office, therefore, could not have prevent-
ed the applicant from using the name, whether re-
gistered or not, it certainly could have denied
the right to the registration of the word "Park"
with an addition which even makes this resemblance to
the registered mark still stronger.
By a letter of October 25, 1935, Exhibit
-3-

=== Page 90 === (confidence 0.99)
C3, the American attorney was informed by the
Japanese Associates that the opposition had been
lodged.
Exhibit C4 is that document through
which this opposition has now been definitely re-
jected. The reasons for the rejection, as stated
by the Examiner, must seem absurd. The Examiner
finds that there is neither resemblance in pro-
nunciation nor in appearance between the two marks.
Now, while in the United States the word "PARKER"
as a surname is not uncommon, it is obvious that
this name is about as strange to Japan as Japanese
names are in the United States. If in the United
States two Japanese words would be registered which
resemble each other to the same extent to which
"Park" and "PARKER" resemble each other, the public
would become confused within very short time, and
it is obvious that the gravest deception could be
practiced on the public. The goods of one manu-
facturer would be passed off to the public for the
goods of the other manufacturer, and vice versa.
Exhibit C5 is the decision which was
handed down by the Examiner in respect of the op-
position filed against the trade-mark "Park" and
"PARKER". Again the Examiner argues that "these
two things are not similar in sound, and they dif-
fer in appearance in that the opposer's mark has
the suffix "er." It is obvious that the Examiner
refers here to differences which are without any
distinctive force at all. The Examiner also states
-4-

=== Page 91 === (confidence 0.99)
that there is nothing similar in idea, pro-
bably implying that thosuse of one of these
names does not cause any mental association with
the other name. While it is obvious that the word
"Park" may not be mentally associated with the
word "PARKER" but when both of these designations
are applied to fountain pens, then the average
purchaser even seeing before him solely the pro-
duct marked "Park" will be reminded of the pro-
duct which he has seen somewhere else and marked
"PARKER", and will either not distinguish the dif-
ference at all, or seeing this difference, will
be inclined to believe that these two marks are
associated with each other through the common
manufacturer. None of the grounds which the Exa-
miner added to his decision, Exhibit C-5 would be
recognized as sound reasons for the rejection of
the opposition.
By a lengthy argument referring to trade-
mark conditions in general, to the treatment of
foreign applicants in different countries, and
referring especially to the confusion which must
be brought about by the registration of "Parker",
"Park," and "Park Minor" for different applicants
on the same goods, the Japanese attorney was in-
structed to file an appeal from this arbitrary
decision of a meritorious case. The present re-
marks are condensed merely because the copy of the
letter of instructions addressed to the Japanese
attorney gives in full the view of The Parker Pen
-5-

=== Page 92 === (confidence 0.99)
Company on the wrongful dismissal of this oppo-
sition.
The Parker Pen Company then through its
American attorneys, furthermore, instructs the
Japanese attorneys to start eventual cancellation
proceedings against the Japanese marks if the lat-
ter should be placed definitely on the register.
By a letter of June 16, 1936, Exhibit C-7, the
Japanese attorneys informed the American attorney
that no registration had been discovered so far.
By a letter of July lst, 1936, Exhibit C-8, the
Japanese attorneys advise the American attorney
that the registrant who desires to make use of
the trade-marks "Park" and "Park Minor" on the
fountain pens is a horticulturist.
The situation as it appears from the re-
cord, therefore, is the following: A man who has
no connection whatsoever with products in this par-
ticular line of writing material, registers a name
and another mark consisting primarily of a name, for
fountain pens. The applied for names have a strong
resemblance with a trade-mark of world-wide repu-
tation which is already twice on the register in
Japan for the lawful owner. This lawful owner hap-
pens to be an American corporation. The Patent Of-
fice, in spite of having the records of the prior
registrations in favor of the American corporation,
also concedes the registration of very similar names
to an applicant whose business is entirely foreign
to the business of stationery products. Not only
-6-

=== Page 93 === (confidence 0.99)
that the registration is conceded. Even though
the owner of the prior lawful registered trade-
marks calls attention to these prior registrations,
the Patent Office still proceeds with the entry
of the second set of marks on grounds which would
not be recognized anywhere else.
The record does not indicate that this
registrant who is described officially as a horti-
culturist is merely a dummy applicant. Manufac-
turers of fountain pens who desired not only to
invalidate the patents of The Parker Pen Company
but to deprive the American company also of the
possibility of doing business in Japan under its
own name and who, furthermore, desired to inter-
fere as much as possible with the business of this
American corporation in non-Japanese countries,
made use of this dummy for this purpose. These
infringing manufacturers, therefore, are not named.
The American corporation does not know who actually
stands behind this attempt of depriving it of one
of its most valuable rights,--the name or trade-
mark that has acquired a world-wide reputation.
The latest report from Japan, Exhibit C-8
merely is a letter from the Japanese attorneys which
also confirms the great resemblance between the
marks and confirms the surprise that the Japanese
Patent Office should have proceeded with the regi-
stration of these trade-marks at all. While, there-
fore, experts in this line also support the con-
tention set out in the present remarks, still, the
-7-

=== Page 94 === (confidence 0.99)
American corporation is put to considerable ex-
pense in defending its trade-mark rights against
attacks which would not have been sustained offi-
cially in any other country. Not only that the
costs of filing the opposition and filing the ap-
peal from the unfavorable decision must be incur-
red, but since the trade-marks "Park" and "Park
Monor" have already proceeded to advertisementin
the official publications of the Japanese Offices,
these marks are used in Japan and in other countries
--especially in the Far East--in competition with
The Parker Pen Company's lawful use of its own mark,
the exclusiveness of which is practically assured
or should be assured through the registration. The
financial loss through the concurrent use of trade-
marks "PARKER", "Park," and "Park Minor", is of
course, a very great one--far greater than the
costs which are due to the opposition and the ap-
peal.
While the Patent Office in considering
applications for the grant of a patent, may assume
the attitude that inventive character cannot be
ascribed to certain improvements even though the
invention has been protected in many foreign coun-
tries, the refusal to grant protection on trade-
marks which already have been registered by the
Japanese Patent Office, is contrary to the practice
in all industrial countries, and particularly con-
trary to the practice in countries which are members
of the International Union for the Protection of
Industrial Property.
-8-

=== Page 95 === (confidence 0.98)
It is believed that a very strong
protest against this treatment accorded to the
owners of trade-marks registered in Japan can be
lodged and that in view of this protest, the trade-mark
applications "Park" and "Purk Minor" filed by a
horticulturist in order to protect fountain pens,
will be rejected.
Respectfully submitted,
THE PARR PN COANY
By
Attorney

=== Page 96 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
1206-A
LOLARS OF BERVIGE DEHIED
WESTERN
CHECK
TELEGRAN
FUGL RATE
DAY LETTER
DEPERRED
ACCT'G INFMN.
NIOHT
NIGHT
UNION
MESSAGE
LETTER
NIGHT
SHIP
LETTER
RADIOGRAM
TIME FILED
go will be
R. B. WHITE
NEWCOMB CARLTON
J. C. WILLEVER
CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
E-PRESIDENT
Send the folloming message, subject to the terms on back hereof, which are hereby agreed to
Chicago October 14 1935
NLT
Patentory
Osaka (Japan)
Parker Pen Company trademarks Parker 150273 and 171867
oppose trademarks Park and Park Minor advertised September
five Class fiftyone
Bertsinger
Paid charge
B Singer
WESTERN UNION MESSENGERS ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE DELIVERY OF NOTES AND PACKAGES

=== Page 97 === (confidence 0.98)
E1C-2
October 14, 1935.
Messrs. Asamura & Higuchi,
Osaka, Japan.
Gentlemen:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, T.M.s
Parker. Japan 150273 and 171867.
Our file 4490.
We cabled you today in accordance with the
appended copy.
The principal attorney was advised through
certain sources that application had been made in
Japan to register the trade-marks "Park" and "Park
Minor" in the name of Keikichi Taketomi, of Osaka.
The specification of goods in each instance covers
goods in Class 51.
Believing that these marks are close, the
principal attorney has instructed us to oppose on
the ground of prior "Parker" marks in Japan. The
"Parker" marks were not originally registered through
the Chicago office, and we do not know how registra-
tion #171867 differs from #150273; but, in any event,
both marks cover goods in Class 51 and either one or
both may serve as proper basis for the opposition.
Will you kindly write that you have taken
the necessary steps. At the same time please send
us your debit note for services and official fees in-
cidental to the matter.
Very truly yours,
(mel.)

=== Page 98 === (confidence 0.98)
BAMURA & HIGUCHI
Osaka, 25th October, 1935
EefhilpC-3
Messrs. B. Singer,
28 East Jackson Blvd.,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Dear Sirs:
re: The Parker Pen Company, Opposition
to Trade Mark "PARK" & "PARK MINOR"
our Ref. M-561
Your cablegram reached us on October 16, reading:-
"PARKER PEN COMPANY TRADEMARKS PARKER 15O273 AND 171867
OPPOSE TRADEMARKS PARK AND PARK MINOR ADVERTISED
SEPTEMBER FIVE CLASS FIFTYONE BERTSINGER".
From this cablegram we have noted that we should
file oppositions against the following trade marks:-
a. Trade Mark: "PARK MINOR"
Application No. 12751 of 1935.
Advertisement No. 8829 of 1935.
Date of Application: June 8, 1935
Goods covered: Class 51, Stationery.
Applicant: K. Taketomi.
b. Trade Mark "PARK"
Application No. 12752 of 1935.
Advertisement No. 8830 of 1935.
Date of Application: June 8, 1935.
Goods covered: Class 51, Stationery.
Applicant: K. Taketomi.
The oppositions have been duly filed and copies of
our arguments are enclosed herewith for your file.
We have vigorously pointed out to the Examiner that
the trade marks "PARK MINOR" and "PARK" are very confusing with
the opposer's trade mark "PARKER" which has been registered
under Reg. Nos. 150273 and 171867, in respect of sound and
appearance. Especially we feel that the "PARk" is perfectly
similar to the "PARkER".
Please note that all the developments of these
cases will be reported to you from time to time.
Here is our debit note.
Yours very truly,
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
(Sigmad) K. Higaohi

=== Page 99 === (confidence 0.98)
(Translation)
Ehilir-C
DECISION OF OPPOSITION
Trade Mark Application No. 12751 of 1935.
Applieant: Keikichi Taketomi
His Attorney: Sh. Higasa.
Opposer: The Parker Pen Company.
Its Attorneys: Asamura and Higuchi.
In the matter of the opposition lodged against
the above application the decision has been handed down as
follows:
TEXT: The opposition is found unreasonable.
GROUNDS: The Opposer says that the mark applied for is
similar to the opposer's registered trade mark and is used
on the same goods, so that the use of same on its designated
goods will raise confusion of goods. The opposer adds there-
fore that the mark applied for is in contradiction to Article
2, Par. 1, Nos. 9 and 1l of the Trade Mark Law.
The response to the above is that the opposition is
unreasonable.
The Examiner considers as follows: The mark applied
for is called as "Park Minor", while the opposer's mark is
called as "Parker", and therefore they differ in sound. Fur-
ther there is nothing similar in appearance and sound between
these two marks. It cannot be admitted that the use of the
mark applied for on its designated goods will raise confusion
as to the origin of goods. Hence the decision as per the
text.
This 4th day of April, 1936.
Sh. Tanaka, Examiner.
This is to certify that the above is a true copy
of the original.
This 7th day of Apr1l, 1936.
Y. Takahashi, Clerk.

=== Page 100 === (confidence 0.98)
(Translation)
Bllibt.c-5
DECISION OF OPPOSITION
Trade Mark Application No. 12752 of 1935.
Applicant: Keikichi Tuketomi
His Attorney: Sh. Higasa.
Opposer: The Parker Pen Company.
Its Attorneys: Asamura and Higuchi.
In the matter of the opposition lodged against
the above application, the decision has been handed down
as follows:
TEXT: The opposition is found unreasonable.
GROUNDS: The opposer says that the mark applied for is
similar to the opposer's trade mark in appearance and sound
and is used on the same goods, the same should not be
registered by Article 2, Par. 1, No. 9 of the Trade Mark Law.
The response to the above is that the opposition
is unreasonable.
The Examiner considers as follows: The mark
applied for gives raise to a sound as "Park", while the
opposer's registered trade mark gives raise to a sound as
"Parker", therefore these two things are not similar in sound.
Further they differ in appearance in that the opposer's mark
has the suffix "m". There is nothing similar in idea, too.
Henoe the deciston as per the text.
This 4th day of April, 1936.
Sh. Tanaka, Examiner.
This is to certify that the above is a true copy
This Tah day of April, 1956.
Y. Takahashi, Clerk.

=== Page 101 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
Eililit-C6
May 21st, 1936.
Messrs. Asamura & Higuchi,
Osaka, Japan.
Gentlemen:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
Trade-Marks "PARKER" 150,273,
and 171,867, Our File 4490.
Your Ref. M-561, Appeal.
Supplementing our instructions to ap-
ply for a trial in this case, we would thank you to
take the necessary steps for starting this proceeding
and at the same time to advise us if additional ma-
terial is needed. We surmise that the Trade-Marks Of-
fice is made the defendant before the court in this
proceeding and that it will not be necessary to ad-
duce witnesses or to take testimony here, but that the
brief of appeal will be the main part of the entire
procedure.
The refusal of the Trade-Marks Office
to recognize our opposition against "Park" and "Park
Minor" is something that we cannot understand. The
situation shortly may be summed up as a manufacturer
having a trade-mark "PARKER" for fountain pens, another
manufacturer whose name is not "Parker" or "Park"
or whose name does not resemble "Park" applies for
trade-marks on fountain pens in which the word "Park"
is the most prominent feature.
If the two trade-marks were fantastic
designations or designations having a very remote re-
ference to the superiority of the product, we could
understand that two companies in good faith will apply

=== Page 102 === (confidence 0.98)
..# 2.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
similar marks. It may happen, for instance, that a
manufacturer of motion picture machines should adopt
the trade-mark "Victor" and that another manufacturer
of motion picture machines should adopt the trade-mark
"Victoria." Unfortunately we do not know the Japanese
equivalents of these English terms. "Victor" indicates
the person who has conquered, and "Victoria" indicates
the fact of the conquest. Designations of this nature
are very frequently selected as trade-marks, and as
both of them may be taken in good faith, we can under-
stand that two applications are filed. We are convinc-
ed that on two similar designations of fantastic char-
acter, but relating to the same general condition indi-
cating, on the one hand, a person, and on the other hand,
a fact which is closely associated with this person, the
Patent Office will refuse the second trade-mark. If
these two trade-marks have very similar meaning even
though the spelling of the pronunciation may be en-
tirely different, the two trade-marks will not be ac-
ceptable. The top quality of some product may, for
instance, be indicated by the word "Climax." It may
also be indicated by the word "Apex" or by the word
"Acme." These words all indicate supreme quality of
the product, but indicate it very remotely, so that in-
dependently these trade-marks would be registrable. The
purchasing public, however, associates with the product
a vague feeling that its designation indicates this
supreme quality, and it is for this reason that the
publio confuses "Climax" and "Apex" or "Apex and Aome"
very frequently. We are certain that a similar variety

=== Page 103 === (confidence 1.00)
#3.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
of synonyms exists for similar descriptive characteristics,
that is, remote descriptive characteristics in the Japan-
ese language, and that the Patent Office and the courts
will not willingly lend their hand to grant protection
to the three different originators of these marks. The
courts and the Patent Office recognize that as long as
the trade-marks are different, the applicants should ob-
tain protection. The trade-mark right, however, has not
only been an act in the higher developed industrial coun-
tries in order to grant the originator of a trade-mark
the exclusive right to apply this trade-mark to the
goods. The trade-mark law is not solely a law of ex-
clusive property protection. It is distinguished from
the patent law by the fact that of similar importance
in all provisions of the trade-mark law, there is also
the protection of the general public. The general pub-
lic buys very frequently articles after they have once
acquired a certain reputation, and selects these favor-
ed articles in accordance with the trade-marks they bear.
We are certain that in Japan staple articles, food pro-
ducts, etc. are sold by being designated by their trade-
marks. While the general public may well distinguish
between two trade-marks whenever the two marks are simul-
taneously placed before the respective member of the
public, the average purchaser of goods associates with
these trade-marks only a vague meaning, and it is for
this reason that similar trade-marks are not successive-
ly registered on similar goods in the various countries.
We, therefore, have to distinguish between
these two phases of the trade-mark law: 1) the exclus-

=== Page 104 === (confidence 0.99)
•# 4.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
ive property right conveyed by registration upon the re-
gistrant, and second, the protective feature for the general
public which is frequently more important than or
at least just as important as the exclusive right
granted to the applicant.
In our opinion the decision which the
Trade-Marks Office handed down in our opposition case
violates both of these considerations which make the
trade-mark law so valuable. In the first place, the
protective feature which we have acquired by the regi-
stration of the word "PARKER" obviously is almost an-
nulled if a very similar mark, as for instance, "Park"
or "Park Minor" is registered for the same goods. In
the second place, the general public in Japan to whom
the name "PARKER" is a foreign name cannot distinguish
between this foreign name and the foreign name "PARK"
or "Park Minor."
The trade-mark "PARKER" owned by The
Parker Pen Company of Janesville, Wisconsin, is regi-
stered in more than thirty countries. The products
have acquired an international reputation. "PARKER"
fountain pens are so well known in every part of the
globe that their appearance is imitated, and wherever
the mechanical details of the pen have not been protect-
ed, the mechanical details also are imitated. Now, a
fountain pen is a relatively simple mechanism. There
are hundreds of different types of fountain pens on
the market with very similar filling, ink storing and
writing details. Since these articles cannot readily
be distinguished in appearance, and since their me-
chanical details also have great resemblance to each

=== Page 105 === (confidence 0.99)
Re The Parker Pen Company.
other, it is essential that the products should be dis-
tinguished from each other at least by that designation
by which they have been or are offered to the public.
The trade-mark protection, therefore, for articles of
this character becomes of the greatest importance.
There are probably dozens of different
qualities of tea on sale in the provision shops of Ja-
pan. In appearance the products have great resemblance
to each other. The quality of the products can only be
determined by tests, which means destruction of the
products, and hence in the sale of teas over the counter,
the various types of tea must be fully distinguished by
trade-marks. It is similar with fountain pens.
In order to distinguish this fountain pen
from others, The Parker Pen Company took one of the most
easily recognized marks, and one to which this company
is undoubtedly entitled regardless of the quality or of
the appearance of the products. They selected the
name.
George S. Parker has been a manufacturer
of fountain pens for approximately fifty years. During
this time Parker pens naturally have acquired an ever
increasing and ever improving reputation. No mark is
so well adapted to distinguish the goods of one maker
from those of another maker as the name. Pictures
which can readily be understood even by the illiterate,
do not lend themselves as well to this form of protection
as the name. If, for instance, a fountain pen manufac-
turer adopts the picture of a swan for his pen, another
fountain pen manufacturer may adopt the picture of an

=== Page 106 === (confidence 0.99)
•..#6.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
entirely different bird or the picture of a fish for the
pen, and if there is a greater number of these pictorial
representations offered to the public, then the public
becomes confused, and again the object of the trade-mark
law is entirely defeated. But the name of an individual
is property which exclusively belongs to him, and this
has been recognized to such an extent that very frequent-
ly and in many countries, the name is protected without
requiring registration of any kind. In English-speaking
countries registration of the name itself is very diffi-
cult because the law will not permit a man to mono-
polize this name against other persons who are like-
wise entitled to that name. On the other hand, how-
ever, the owner of the name is strongly protected under
the various laws against unfair competition, so that
in spite of the lack of registration, inspite of the
fact that the official character of trade-mark is not
bestowed by registration upon the name, the name is
considered one of the strongest possible means of ob-
taining trade-mark rights.
In our case, therefore, we have taken
this individually, precisely delimited feature, and
in order to safeguard the public, we registered this
name. It was not necessary to register the name
"PARKER" in order to obtain exclusive property rights
in the name. The name "PARkeR" was the manufacturer's
name, whether he registered it or not. He could have
proceeded against persons who use this name or a simi-
lar name without being entitled to it, whether he
would have registered it or not. The registration,

=== Page 107 === (confidence 0.98)
•#7.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
therefore, was merely a form of throwing an additional
safeguard against deception about the purchasing pub-
lic.
The applicant whose trade-mark regi-
strations we oppose has no right to the name of
"PARKER" or no right to any similar name. The ques-
tion then immediately can be put--why did this regi-
strant adopt for fountain pens a designation which
has great resemblance with the name "PARKER"? There
is no reason whatsoever to assume that this was done
in good faith. The word "Park" or designation "Park
Minor" when applied to fountain pens has no particular
meaning whatsoever. In the English language the word
"Park" designates usually a territory cultivated for
decorative purposes--a territory which is not devoted
to the cultivation of the soil for exclusive utility,
but solely for the sake of beauty or recreation. Any
larger garden may be called a park. The word has oth-
er meanings, but none that can be even remotely applied
to the art of writing or to the art of carrying a sup-
ply of ink or to any implement which the user can con-
tinuously carry safely with himself. It is, therefore,
when applied to fountain pens nothing but a fancy de-
signation which in itself would be registrable but
which, owing to its very remoteness from the article
to be protected thereby, will not be selected by the
average trade-mark owner. The average trade-mark owner
of fountain pens may select a Greek name that has some-
thing to do with the beauty of writing. He may select

=== Page 108 === (confidence 0.99)
Re The Parker Pen Company.
a name which has something to do with the long duration
for which the implement will remain useful. He may se-
lect a name which may indicate that relatively great
quantities of writing fluid can be carried,--a name
which will indicate that there is no danger of soiling
the garments in which the article is carried; in short,
he will always select a name which remotely deals with
the function of the article itself. No such meaning
can be ascribed to the word "Park." The main reason,
therefore, why this word has been adopted by the regi-
strant is the reason that there is already on the market
in all countries a fountain pen with a very similar de-
signation, and if the public does not see both of these
names at the same time, the public will be confused and
the word "Park" will be considered to be the same word
as the word "PARKER". It is only if the Trade-Mark Of-
fice absolutely disregards the aim of the trade-mark law
of protecting the public that the word "Park" can be
registered for fountain pens after the word "PARkER"
has once been registered. We are sorry that we do not
know many Japanese surnames. Assuming for instance,
that the name "Setsuvi" has been registered in Japan,
and in thirty foreign countries to indicate silk pro-
ducts--raw silk in the thread and pongee silk, undyed.
Would the Japanese Office actually believe that after
registration of the word "Setsuvi" in the United States
for these goods, an American manufacturer would obtain
protection on the trade-mark "Setsu" or some similar
trade-mark on exactly the same goods? The United States

=== Page 109 === (confidence 0.99)
9.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
Patent Office would immediately reply that while the
word "Setsu" in itself is a registrable mark when ap-
plied to silk, it cannot be registered because the word
"Setsuvi" is already registered and the public would
only be confused by the two registrations. It would
not become necessary at all for the owner of the trade-
mark "Setsuvi" to file opposition. The United States
Patent Office would upon argument made by the later ap-
plicant that the mark "Setsu" is a registrable mark,
--answer that this mark apparently has been selected
exclusively for the reason that another popular mark
for the same goods is registered as a name of the owner
of this mark, and that the selection of " Setsu" cannot
be believed to have been made in good faith.
In trade-mark matters the various Pa-
tent Offices have recognized a sort of international
good faith that must be observed in the registration
of marks. They all have recognized that the reputa-
tion which trade-marked goods have acquired, extends
not only to the class of goods on which the trade-mark
is used, but also to goods of an entirely different
character.
So for instance, in Germany it had been
decided that the trade-mark "Eskimo Pie" although it
had not been registered at all in Germany, was so well
known to the public as designation of an American pro-
duct that it would be wrong to register this trade-mark
in favor of a German manufacturer. The Patent Office
and courts believed that by registering this American

=== Page 110 === (confidence 0.99)
.10.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
trade-mark, although it had not been registered by the
American owner for a different German manufacturer on
the same goods, the public would be led to the assump-
tion that these German trade-marked goods would be of
American extraction and therefore, the registration
of the German mark would confuse the public. The trade-
mark "Kodak" is well known all over the world in con-
nection with photographic goods. An American manufac-
turer desired to make use of the popularity of this mark
by registering it for bicycles. The protest of the East-
man Manufacturing Company, owners of the "Kodak" trade-
mark for photographic goods, was sustained. The public
had become accustomed to associating the word "Kodak"
with the Eastman Manufacturing Company and with a cer-
tain quality of goods bearing this mark. The applica-
tion of this strange word to goods made by a different
manufacturer would lead the public to the assumption that
Eastman Manufacturing Company also had been interested
in the production of these bicycles and that the quali-
ty of the bicycles would be on a par with the quality
of the photographic supplies.
We refer to these cases to prove that the
interests of the general public are as much to be ob-
served and guarded as the interests of the registrant.
In our opinion the Japanese Patent Office has failed in
safeguarding the interests of the Japanese public, and
still more, it has failed to safeguard the rights of ex-
clusion which have been acquired by The Parker Pen Com-
pany through the registration of the name "Parker" in

=== Page 111 === (confidence 0.99)
#11.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
Japan.
---o---
There is in our present case a clear iden-
tity of the goods to which the two marks are applied.
There is in our opinion a clear sharp conflict between
the marks themselves. We do not believe that there is
any other country in the world which would deny that
the word "PARKER" and the words "Park" and "Park Minor"
have the closest resemblance. Particularly in English-
speaking countries and in countries in which monosyllable
words are frequently produced by splitting up a word
with several syllables, the danger of confusion between
one syllable of a word having several syllables and ano-
ther word consisting exclusively of that very syllable,
this danger of confusion is extremely close. If in Ja-
pan the trade-mark "Parker" is not considered broad en-
ough to prevent the registration of the words "Park" or
"Park Minor" of a third party on the same goods, then
trade-mark registration in Japan will lose all of its
meaning.
We would thank you to let us know whether
any evidence is required on our part. We can, of course,
not furnish very much evidence that actual confusion oc-
curred because the trade-mark "Park" apparently has gone
into use, if at all, for a very short time only. It may
also be that the Japanese registrant of the word "Park"
has no intontion of using this trade-mark in Japan
and that these pens are manufactured exclusively for
the trade in other parts of Asia. For this reason

=== Page 112 === (confidence 0.99)
18.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
it will be difficult for us to adduce evidence. We
are of the opinion, however, that it should not be-
come necessary to introduce much of this evidence and
we would, therefore, thank you to use your best ef-
forts in the trial appeal to obtain a reversal of the
decree of the Patent Office.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 113 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
byhilih-c7
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
Osaka, 16th June, 1936.
Messrs. B. Singer,
Chicago, U. S. A.
Dear Sirs:
re: The Parker Pen Company, Trade Mark
"PARKER", Japan 150273 and 171867
Your File 4490, Our Ref. M-561
We have received your letters of May 20, May 21,
and May 23, instructing us to lodge cancellation proceedings
against "PARK" and "PARK MINOR" trade marks.
We have looked up the Patent Office Records, but
it is found that these two marks are not yet registered, we
do not know why. We shall look up the Records again on and
about lOth next month and shall ascertain if the marks are
registered or abandoned.
As to the activities of Taketomi, who lives in
the suburbs of this city, we shall investigate it and shall
report you in due course.
Yours very truly,
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
(Signed)
K. Higuchi

=== Page 114 === (confidence 0.97)
COPY
ElC-8
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
Osaka, 1st July, 1936.
Messrs. B. Singer,
Chicago, U. S. A.
Dear Sirs:
re: The Farker Pen Company, Trade Mark
"FARKER", Japan 150273 and 171867
(Your File 4490, Our Ref.M-561)
Referring to our letter of June 16 we inform
you that Mr. Taketomi is a horticulturist and we cannot
make out why he desires registration of trade marks in
the class in which he seems to have no interest.
Yours very truly,
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
(Signed)
K. Higuchi

=== Page 115 === (confidence 0.98)
COPY
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
Osaka, 3rd September, 1936.
bdlilas C
Messrs. B. Singer,
Chicago, U.S.A.
Dear Sirs:
re: The Parker Pen Company, Trade Mark
"PARKER", Japan 150273 and 171867
(Your File 4490, Our Ref. M-561)
Referring to our letter of August 12, we inform
you that we have prepared and filed cancellation proceedings
against Trade Marks Nos. 28OO90 (PARK MINOR) and 28Ol15 (PARK)
basing on the prior Registration Nos. 150273 and 171867 owned
by The Parker Pen Company.
Our opinion is that the PARK and PARK MINOR are
similar to the PARKER and confusion is inevitable especially
when they are used on such small articles as fountain pens,
pencils, etc. Above all we cannot see why the Examiner could
have ever passed the "PARK" to registration in view of the
trade mark "PARkER", both covering the same articles of goods.
The Parker Pen Company has been carrying on long
and extensive business under the famous trade mark "PARKER"
in respect of fountain pens and automatic pencils in Japan.
Therefore to allow Taketomi registration of the similar trade
marks would permit fraud and deceipt upon the company and upon
the Japanese public. The former would be harmed in that the
reputation of the excellency of its products may suffer from
the possible bad quality of the goods on which Taketomi
intends to use the trade marks and the Japanese public
would be misled and defrauded in that it would undoubtedly
be led into buying Taketomi's goods in the belief that
they originated with the American Company.
We have used exhaustive arguments in this matter
to leave no stone unturned, and assure you of our very best

=== Page 116 === (confidence 1.00)
(2)
attention to the matter.
In the meantime will you be good enough to
let us have powers of attorney with corporation national-
ity certificates at your early convenience and oblige.
We may add that Taketomi has adopted these two
marks, viz. "PARK" and "PARK MINOR", as he is a gardener.
Here are copies of our argument and our debit note.
Yours very truly,
ASAMURA & HIGUCHI
(Signed)
K. Higuchi

=== Page 117 === (confidence 0.97)
As a further exaaple of the unwar-
rantedly antagonistic attitude of the Japenese
Patent Office towerds patent applications based
on inventions filed uy foreiga appileants, the
petitioner also sublits copies o spocification,
actions and instruetions or repiy pertaining to
Japanese applicetion No. l2l43 filed on November
i2, l935 on "Maprovements in Fountain Pens."
Exhibit B comprises the documents
constituting the official record and instructions
pertaining to this application.
Exhibition B-l is a copy o the
English specification, is iied in a Japanese
rendering in the Patent Office. The sane specification
in nglish furnished the besis for applications in a
number of other non-English speaking countries, and the
same specification also was filed in the United States
Patent Office where it wes ultinately passed to
allowance without any serious objection. This will
demonstrate that the disclosure as originally filed
in the Japanese Patent Office was sufficient to
render actions thereon and to understand the objects
of the inventor as weil as the improvements
to be covered by the patent.
In the first action rendered by the
Japanese Patent Office, Exhibit B-2, the Examiner
-1-

=== Page 118 === (confidence 0.99)
cites a Japanese Utility Model Registration No. 40634
admitting at the same time that the application is
different than he sets forth. The aifference in
these structures and by this short synopsis of the
specification indicates that he fully appreciated
just what the invention resided in. No art had been
shown by the Examiner up to that time which would
have anticipated the claims a.. flled. No proof is
advanced by the Exaliner that the connection of different
sheets for the purpose of obtaining a striped
pattern has been conmonly used. This is merely an
allegation, and if the use were actually very comnon,
it would have been easy for the xaniner to re'er to
a publication showing this common use.
The action
closes with the general statement thot the improve-
ment cannot be considered a novel invention.
Exhibit B-3 is a copy of the instruc-
tions which were sent in response to this action
and which were filed in the Japanese Patent Office.
A copy of these Japanese answers is not attached to
this Brief to facilitate the perusal of the instruc-
tions. If in these instructions the Japanese
representative is advised to withdraw the claims
and to replace them by others, the advice was
due to references which had been cited in other
countries where the same application had been filed.
The same instructions or instructions of very
similar wording and claims also of very similar
wording had been submitted in answer to
-2-

=== Page 119 === (confidence 0.99)
other actions in these other foreign countries with
the result that in the other foreign countries as
well as in the United States, the patents were ulti-
mately allowed.
The petitioner herewith enumerates
Whure anr U..
the numbers of the patents granted in countries
in which the examination as to novelty is supposed
to be as strict and as thorough as in the Japanese
Patent Office:
Austria, Denmark, Germany, Great Britain,
Holland, Irish Free State, Sweden, Spain and India.
The United States patent is exploited
in this and a number of foreign countries and consti-
tutes one of the most popular features of petitioner's
product. The pen itself is known by its very appear-
ance as constituting the product originating with the
petitioner, and this appearance is respected by other
prominent manufacturers of fountain pens in this coun-
try so that none of them bring on the market a pen
of a similar appearance.
The petitioner's British representa-
tive took over the prosecution of the British appli-
cation with the result that the patent also was al-
lowed in Great Britain after a thorough examination
and after defending it against references to alleg-
ed prior art.
The German application also was
brought to allowance in the German Patent Office. If
the patent has not issued in Germany, it is not due to
-3-

=== Page 120 === (confidence 0.99)
the fact that the German Patent Office failed to re-
cognize patentable subject matter, but it is due to
the fact that subsequent to the allowance and in ac-
cordance with the German practice, the accepted ap-
plication was laid out for public inspection and a
number of German manufacturers claimed that they had
used the same improvements on their fountain pens pri-
or to the filing of this application in Germany. In
this connection it should be noted that the Japanese
Examiner's action did not make any reference to actual
prior use by specific parties in Japan. In that case
the petitioner would have had an opportunity to dis-
prove eventually the contention of the Examiner. But
where the rejecting ground is stated in general and
vague terme, it is, of course, practically impossible
for any applicant to argue specifically against these
denials. The refusals of the Japanese Patent Office to
recognize patentability are generally couched in a very
broad and indefinite language. On the other hand, in
all of the countries in which examination as to novelty
is practiced, the statements made by the Examiners are
specific, enabling thereby the applicant to show why
the specific grounds do not apply.
Also in Holland the petitioner succeed-
ed in bringing the application to acceptance. In Holland
this application had been prosecuted also in the name of
the petitioner's representative. Here also the accepted
claims were used as issue between the petitioner and for-
-4-

=== Page 121 === (confidence 0.99)
eign manufacturers who opposed the application after
it had been allowed, and who alleged specifically at
which occasions and at which places and when, they,
the opposers had mode use of this invention. The Dutch
Patent Office, after exaninine the evidence submitted
by these opposing parties, found that it was insuffi-
cient to demonstrate the fact that this improvement
had been used in holland before the applicant had fil-
ed his application there, and the opposition was, there-
fore, decided in favor of the present invention. The
opposing parties appealed from this decision end the
case is now pending on appeal.
The petitioner desires to point out
that these facts prove: first, that in foreign coun-
tries the petentability of the invention had been re-
cognized by the examining authorities; second, thet
the invention was of value for the industry otherwise
the opposers would not have attacked the application
and endeavored to prevent the issuance of a patent;
third, that the practice in these foreign countries
is one which enables any applicant to bring evidence
demonstrating the advance in the art, and a thing
which is impossible for him whenever in a general way
and without stating any grounds, the patentability is
denied as this is being done in Japan.
Exhibit B-4 is a copy of the Examiner's
reply to that amendment which was based on the instruc-
tions, Exhibit B-3. Again attention is called to the
very general statement in
-5-

=== Page 122 === (confidence 0.99)
the first paragraph of this Bureau Notice wherein the
Examiner, without bringing any proof whatsoever, al-
leges that fountain pens made in their entirety of a
transparent material, had been known prior to this ap-
plication, and secondly, where this fact is cited ag-
ainst an application which does not claim the produc-
tion of a fountain pen in which the barrel is made en-
tirely of transparent material. On the one hand, this
statement of the examining authorities is unsupported
by any proofs which the applicant could attack, and,
in the second place, this statement does not go to
that subject matter which the applicant had claimed.
Even though the applicant might admit that the whole
barrels had been made of transparent material, there
would still be room for a claim covering a barrel made
partly of transparent and partly of opaque material
where opaque and transparent materials are arranged in
predetermined relation to each other and where, owing
to this relation of transparent and opaque sections
certain advantages are attained.
In the second paragraph of the Bureau
Notice, Exhibit B-4, the Examiner again admits that
the present application is different from the prior
art, he points out these differences, and then again
cites a Japanese Utility Model which had not been pre-
viously cited although the subject matter submitted
to the Ixaminer had not been altered between the first
and second action of the Examiner. That the references
oited by the Examiner in these two actions have no bear-
6-

=== Page 123 === (confidence 0.99)
ing on the subject matter of the present application
will be seen from the drawings of these two Utility
Models Nos. 40634 and 8138, marked respectively Ex-
hibits B-5 and B-6, and disclosing the futility of
these citations.
The applicant again replied to the
Bureau Notice, Exhibit B-4, by instructing the Japanese
representative to file a reply. The instructions are
attached hereto as Exhibit B-7, and the petitioner is
informed and believes that the Japanese equivalent of
this argument had been lodged in the Japanese Patent
office.
Exhibit B-8 is a translation of the
final rejection with which the Patent Office replied
to this argument. The petitioner, recognizing that
the Japanese authorities did not desire to be convinc-
ed since they referred in the rejecting actions to
statements to which the petitioner had not referred
in the replies, did not file an appeal, and in this
manner the invention failed to be protected in Japan.
There is an enormous difference between a barrel of a
fountain pen composed alternately of transparent and
opaque sections and a barrel of a fountain pen made
entirely of transparent celluloid and being provid-
ed with short gradation marks engraved on the trans-
parent barrel. In spite of the fact that the appli-
cation of gradation marks to transparent containers
is known from thousands of utensils either used in
scientific appliances for chemistry, physics, etc.
or used in the household for measuring liquids or
-7-

=== Page 124 === (confidence 0.99)
loose material, these prior devices did not disclose
containers made up of opaque and transparent sections
and certainly this particular composition had not been
disclosed in association with fountain pens with
which it had been claimed by the petitioner.
Again, the statements made by the Pa-
tent Office in refusing the grant of protection on
this invention are refuted by the very fact that Ja-
pan as well as the Far East, is flooded at the pre-
sent time with imitations of this pen as made by the
petitioner. These imitations which are very accurate
copies of petitioner's product originate in Japan, and
owing to the fact that the manufacturer's name does
not appear on the spurious products, it is extremely
difficult for the petitioner to stop these infringe-
ments at their source. The petitioner is, therefore,
compelled to employ continuously solicitors in many
parts of the Far East, instructing them to observe
the fountain pen market, to keep the petitioner in-
formed whenever retailers in various larger or smaller
cities of the Far East display these imitating fountain
pens, and then to bring the action against these re-
tailers in the Pplice Courts or other lower tribunals
of that country in which the retailer is a resident.
The petitioner, therefore, is compelled to bring ac-
tion in many towns of British India where the fountain
pen is protected by patents fully granted. This means
that he is also compelled to keep a very close watch
on the market in Siam, in HongKong, in China and in
many other parts where obviously this control of the
-8

=== Page 125 === (confidence 0.99)
retail market is far more difficult than in countries
with more thorough commercial organization than these
far Eastern states.
The petitioner also has discovered to
its dismay that the Japanese manufacturer or manufac-
turers who are now at liberty to produce this pen in
Japan export this pen to many countries in South America
and even to Europe and that, therefore, in the various
countries of South America and in Europe the same steps
have to be taken to safeguard the rights which the pe-
titioner was compelled to take in the Far East.
The unwarranted refusal of the Japanese
Office to grant protection on the meritorious inven-
tion, the novelty of which has been recognized by the
countries enumerated above has, therefore, a very far-
reaching effect and greatly adds to the petitioner's
expense in marketing the product, and in keeping open
those foreign markets which the petitioner had estab-
lished through very careful and laborious work, and af-
ter having succeeded in placing on the world market a
product of international reputation.
Respectfully submitted,
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
BY
A.ttorney.
-9-

=== Page 126 === (confidence 0.91)
COPY
Ca8o"8n
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, a corporation duly organ-
ized under the laws of the State of Wisconsin, of
Corner of Court and Division Streets, Janesville,
State of Wisconsin, United States of America.
"MARKING DEVICE"

=== Page 127 === (confidence 0.99)
This invention relates to fountain pens or
other marking means such as pencils, wherein the mark-
ing fluid or marking element which is fed from the in-
terior of the barrel is visible through the barrel. A
transparent barrel or a translucent barrel, particular-
ly when the latter is of a one-color or irregular tone
effect, does not always meet requirements regarding the
appearance of the finished article. It is desirable
in some cases to produce variable but definite color
combinations in the handle or barrel of the device,
and it is common practice to make the handle of some such
material as pyroxylin.
If the pyroxylin is in the form of extruded
tubing, the color of the tubing is generally uniform,
for color variation in the tube cannot be controlled
satisfactorily because of the longitudinal flow effect-
ed by the extruding process.
The object of this invention is to produce a
pen barrel which in general appearance gives a desira-
ble tone or variable color effect while it is, at the
same time, sufficiently transparent for ascertaining
at a glance to what extent the barrel is filled with
the marking fluid.
The drawings illustrate the manner of form-
ing the product and the construction of the barrel, and
to some degree the appearance thereof in a finished pen.
Figure 1 shows a fountain pen, the cylindri-
cal body and cap of which are formed of the improved
material.
Fig. 2 is a fragmentary perspective for indi-
cating pyroxylin sheets differing in thickness and color
which are used in forming the block from which the pen

=== Page 128 === (confidence 1.00)
barrels are cut;
Fig. 3 is a fragmentary perspective view of
such a formed block;
Fig. 4 is a side view of a rod or core which
is removed from the laminated block of pyroxylin sheets;
Fig. 5 is a fragmentary perspective view in-
dicating a different way of cutting the material which
forms the pen handles;
Fig. 6 is a fragmentary view of a tube which
is made with the ribbon removed from the pyroxylin block
shown by Fig. 5;
Fig. 7 is a side view of a partly wound man-
drel to illustrate the manner of forming the tube shown
by Fig. 6; and
Fig. 8 is a modified form of tube, the lamina-
tions of which are vertical rather than horizontal.
The effect in appearance, which is the purpose
to accomplish by means of this invention, is to produce
variable colors which give the impression of lamina pre-
ferably extending transversely to the axis of the bar-
rel either truly perpendicular to the axis or of wavy or
spiral formation. This effect is accomplished by super-
posing pyroxylin sheets in the desired color combinations,
particularly alternating, opaque and transparent sheets.
The sheets are uniformly coa ted with a pyroxylin solvent
or adhesive so that they may be rolled together or com-
pressed into a solid block. The solvent may be control-
led to either partially merge the sheets together or
provide for a distinct and sharp contrast between the
sheets. The hardened block of laminated pyroxylin is
sheared into rods, and the rods are bored out to tubu-

=== Page 129 === (confidence 0.99)
lar form with the laminations extending transversely
thereof or the laminated block is sheared into ribbons
with the laminations extending lengthwise and parallel
to or biased with reference to the side edges of the
ribbon. The ribbon is then wound in a helix flatly
upon a mandrel and its meeting edges are fused togeth-
er by acetone or other solvent of the material and
the resultant tubular formation is ground and polish-
ed to the required dimensions.
The laminated structure shown by Fig. 3 is
formed of a plurality of sheets 1 and 2, the alternate
sheets 1 being preferably thicker and more transpar-
ent than the sheets, 2. The sheets 2 may be deeply
colored, or variegated and opaque, or translucent, de-
pending upon the general tone desired in the finished
article. The transparent sheets 1 function as a gauge
glass to indicate at a glance the depth of the ink in
the ink barrel of the pen. The block 3 is punched or
otherwise cut or sheared to produce the solid rods 4
illustrated by Fig. 4. 5 indicates perforations left
by the forming of rods 4. Such solid rods are bored
out to form the pen barrel 6 and the cap 7.
The fused or cemented sheets forming the
block 3 of Fig. 5 are sliced into ribbons such as in-
dicated at 8. To form the desired type of barrel or
handle for a marking device, such a ribbon 8 is wound
in a helix around a mandrel 9 with the meeting edges
of the convolutions fused or cemented together by the
-4-

=== Page 130 === (confidence 0.99)
use of a pyroxylin solvent. The result is a solid
tube 10 as shown by Fig. 6 which is complete, ready
for use, except as to the grinding, shaping and pol-
ishing, which takes place in the manufacture of the
pen.
In Figs. 1, 4 and 6, the alternate trans-
parent sections of the holder are indicated by the
numeral ll, and the opaque or semi-opaque sections
by the numeral 12.
The resulting article is a thin tube which
appears to be formed by a series of rings or a thick
walled tube which appears to be formed by a series
of perforated discs or washers. With this construc-
tion it is possible to produce many desired color ef-
fects and color combinations not possible with other
methods of manufa during and still permit the handle
structure to function as a visual gauge for indicat-
ing the depth of a marking fluid or other marking me-
dium.
It is obvious that by shearing block 3 hor-
izontally of the laminations as indicated by numeral
13, a tube having horizontally extending layers of al-
ternating opaque and transparent material will re-
oult.
-5-

=== Page 131 === (confidence 0.99)
C L A I M S
1. Improvements in a handle for a marking device,
fountain pen or the like, consisting of a series of al-
ternating, more or less opaque and integrally connected
elements forming in their entirety a tubular container.
2. A holder, as set forth in claim 1, in which
the elements of which the container is composed are co-
axial, alternating, opaque and transparent rings or
discs.
3. A holder, as set forth in claims 1 and 2, in
which the elements of which the container is composed
are alternatingly of contrasting colors.
4. A method of producing a holder for a marking
device, fountain pen or the like, as set forth in claim
1, including the step of positioning sheets of varying
translucency in alternation alongside each other, com-
pressing them to form a block, and producing the tubu-
lar holder from the material of said block.
5. A holder, substantially as described and
shown, and for the purpose set forth.
6. A method of producing a holder, substantial-
ly as described, and for the purpose set forth.
-6-

=== Page 132 === (confidence 0.98)
CQPY
ehibit B-2
5275
Application No. 12149 of 1933 (Showa 8)
Bureau Notice.
The invention in this application is considered as
similar to that described in Japanese utility model Regis-
tration No. 40,634.
Though this application is different from the cita-
tion in that it consists of a series of alternately con-
nected, transparent and opaque, sheet elements so as to
display a striped pattern, an idea of connecting, alternate-
ly, several kinds of sheets together for the purpose of
obtaining a striped pattern has been commonly used in prac-
tice by those skilled in the art; and since this feature
cannot be considered as constituting a novel invention a
favourable view cannot be taken for acceptance.

=== Page 133 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Ethibit B-3
April 30th, 1934.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
12l49, Case 8, Your Ref. 5275,
Our File 4490.
In other countries in which we filed
this application, we succeeded in bringing to allow-
ance quite satisfactory claims. The advantage in
the present construction over other pens in which
the contents of the barrel could be observed is that
in spite of this possibility of permitting the user
to watch the degree to which the barrel is emptied,
the barrel itself has the appearance of an opaque
barrel. This is due to the fact that narrow opaque
portions alternate with narrow transparent portions,
and this is a difference from the structure of the
Japanese utility model of l9l6. In the latter the
barrel must be provided with a longitudinal slot. An
outer layer of transparent celluloid is cemented to
this barrel. Now, all of thoee cements, glues or
adhesives which are used for cementing celluloid to
some other phenol condensate are attacked by the acids
in the ink so that after relatively short time the
ink begins to leak through the adhesive, and of
course the entire pen becomes absolutely useless.
In the present device the transparency and the ap-
plication of a pleasing design to the outer surface
of the barrel are made possible without any adhesive

=== Page 134 === (confidence 0.99)
•..# 2.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
of any character, and it is for this reason that the
other countries in which we have filed this appli-
cation have recognized patentable subject matter in
the article itself. There is presented to the public
a pen of such striking appearance that it differs from
all of the pens which are on the market. The appear-
ance, therefore, adds to the marketing value of the
pen, but this is the smaller advantage in the construc-
tion of the device. The greater advantage is the fact
that over the entire circumference of the barrel, the
contents of the barrel can readily be observed. You
can easily understand that if the barrel of the utility
patent 40,634 be held against the light, the contents
cannot be observed because the slot which is covered
by the celluloid window has a dark background. In or-
der to make it possible for the user to see quite readi-
ly how much ink there is in the barrel, it would be ne-
cessary to provide at a diametrically opposite point of
the slot b, another slot, so that the light can shine
through the entire contents of the barrel. As long as
the light cannot fall through the barrel itself, it is
extremely difficult to see whether black ink is present
in a black barrel. But where, as in the present applica-
tion, the barrel is transparent on its entire circumference
in alternate layers, the observation of the contents be-
comes very easy. It is not even necessary to hold the
barrel against the light. The very fact that there is a
distinction between that part of the barrel which has
ink in its interior and that part of the barrel which

=== Page 135 === (confidence 0.99)
#3.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
has no ink in its interior shows at a glance the full
contents. The stripes also help in measuring the ap-
proximate contents of the barrel. It is not necessary
to count the opaque stripes, but the very fact that
this entire length of the barrel is divided transverse-
ly into sections makes this approximate measuring so
much easier.
We would propose to withdraw the claims
and to replace them by claims somewhat as follows:
"l. A fountain pen, characterized in
this, that its barrel is made up of a series of
alternating more or less opaque integrally con-
nected zones of contrasting color, permitting the
user to view the contents of the barrel through
the transparent zones and hiding the contents of
the barrel through the opaque zones."
Claim 4 should then be our second claim
and claims 5 and 6 could eventually be resubmitted.
In all countries the method of making
up this barrel of a block of pyroxylin or the like com-
posed of alternating transparent and opaque sheets has
been recognized as a novel step in the art. Certainly
that method cannot be recognized from the utility model.
If, therefore, contrary to our expectations, the Japan-
ese Patent Office should fail to recognize patentable
subject matter in the alternate zones, at least the claim
directed to the method of making the barrel should be
held patentable.
Kindly advise us that you have amended
this case.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 136 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Exhicht B-4
5275
Application No. 12l49 of Showa 8 (1933)
Bureau
Notice.
The idea of making the whole barrel of a transparent
material in order to permit the user to view the condition
within the barrel of a fountain pen from outside, has usual-
ly been put into practice by those engaged in the art, pri-
or to this application.
Though this applicarion is different from the ahove-
mentioned in that the barrel is provided with opaque zones
in the form of graduation, yet the idea of making graduation
on the transparent portion of a fountain pen has already
been publicly known, (for example, see Japanese Utility Model
Application Publication No. 8138 of 1931). Therefore such
an idea is not considered to constitute a patentable inven-
tion.
As the invention in this application is considered to
be similar to the said devices, a favourable view cannot be
taken for acceptance.

=== Page 137 === (confidence 0.87)
Case N. 5275
Fig.1
Fig.2.
(a)
—1(C)
(6)b
=(d)
(a)
1(c)
(0)0
CIIE

=== Page 138 === (confidence 0.95)
Ephilit B-6
新業出順公告第八一三八號
2
3.
夏

=== Page 139 === (confidence 0.90)
登錄講求ノ範圍圖面三示ス如ク蒲鉢狀二シテ計度目ヲ附シタル透明體ヲ主軸ノ簡體ノ長手ノ方向二前面ヲ凸出シテ嵌着セル一メ
實用新案ノ性質、作用及效果ノ要領圗面中（八主軸ノ簡體八透明體豆八「キャップ」ヲ示ス
圖面ノ略解第一圗八本案「メ一夕一付萬年筆ノ正面圗第二圖八主軸中央橫斷面圖ヲ示ス
六年
昭和
一ター」付萬年筆構造
又等使用上二幾多實用的效果アルモノトス
尙透明體有スルコトハ一層萬年筆ヲ優美二且ッ机上二於テ八滑落スルノ憂レヲナカラシメ又畫線等ノ場合二八圓棒ノ代用ヲ為
尺度ヲ計ル時ニモ便益アルモノトス
本案八上記ノ構造ョリナル力故二萬年筆ノ使用中簡內ノ「インキ」量八透明體ヲ透シテ外部ョリ正確二判明得且ッ簡單二物品
アッ
本案八蒲鉾狀二シテ計度目ヲ附タル透明體宮ヲ主軸ノ簡體ノ長手ノ方向二前面ヲ凸出シラ嵌着セル「メーター」付萬年筆ノ構造二
實用新案出願公告第八一三八號
メー夕一付萬年筆
第百十一類四雜萬年筆
大阪市南區末吉橋通一丁月二番地
出願人考案者
公告
出願
願書番號昭和五年第一○一九一號
昭和六年七月十三日
木
百七
覺
太
郎

=== Page 140 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
hiht B-7
August 28th, 1934.
Mr. W. A. de Havilland, M. A.,
Tokyo, Japan.
Dear Sir:
Re: The Parker Pen Company, Japan,
12149, Case 8, Your Ref. 5275,
Our File 4490.
We cannot agree with the Examiner
that the principle on which the present application
is based is actually met in the Japanese Utility Model
application 8138 of 1931. In this prior fountain pen
the barrel has an insertion made of some transparent
material which shows how far the ink in the barrel has
been used up and how much ink is left. The applica-
tion of a scale to this transparent part is only in-
cidental. Now it has been found in fountain pens made
of transparent celluloid or the like, that the splash-
ing of the ink in the barrel has a disturbing effect
on the eyes of the user of the pen. The light is re-
flected from this upper level of the ink, and it is,
therefore, not advisable to use a barrel made transpar-
ent over its entire length.
It has also been found that the
ink leaves some sediment on the walls of the barrel
and that this sediment obstructs the transparency.
The user of the transparent barrel cannot ascertain
so very readily whether a dark part visible to him
is a sediment of ink left on the walls of the bar-
rol or whether it is the body of ink in the barrel.

=== Page 141 === (confidence 0.99)
#2.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
Now, where this transparent portion is reduced to a
narrow strip, as for instance, in the utility publi-
cation 8l38, it is even more difficult to find out
whether the dark portion visible in the narrow trans-
parent part is ink or merely a sediment left on the
wall.
To overcome all of these disadvantages
in the present application, the barrel is divided into
transparent and non-transparent narrow zones, which
has the effect that the fluctuation of the level of
the ink in the barrel does not interfere with the vi-
sibility of the ink nor does the fluctuation of the
level have any disturbing reflex action on the eyes
of the user. It is true that the user cannot see di-
rectly how much ink is contained in the barrel. The
barrel must be held between the eye and a source of
light, as for instance between the eye and a window.
The advantages of the present innovation, therefore,
are quite important, and the fountain pen has become
an extremely popular article in the American market.
We would thank you to argue in the
Japanese Patent Office that this transverse division
of the barrels into narrow opaque and transparent zones
has a marked effect, and that it is superior to those
in which an ordinary transparent barrel is being used.
Our claims are already restricted to this transparent
subdivision, and we would, therefore, thank you to ap-
ply onee more for the allowance of the same claims or
alter them to a slight extent only.

=== Page 142 === (confidence 0.95)
...#3.
Re The Parker Pen Company.
Kindly advise us that the case has
been amended.
Very respectfully,
FS-ECB

=== Page 143 === (confidence 0.99)
COPY
Exhiht B-8
5275
Application No. 12l49 of 1933.
Rejection Notice.
This application is rejected on the grounds
stated in the Bureau Notice of 9 June, 1934.
In the argument, applicant argues that
this application constitutes a novel invention. However,
the idea of providing a graduation on the transparent por-
tion of a fountain pen barrel has already been publicly
known (see the previous Bureau Notice). The provision,
therefore, of opaque zones on a fountain pen barrel in the
manner of a measuring scale, as in this application, can
be carried out easily, if desired, by those skilled in the
art and hence canno be considered to constitute a patenta-
ble invention.
For this reason this application is regard-
ed eventually as equivalent to the device, commonly in use
prior to this application among those skilled in the art,
consisting of making the entire barrel of transparent mater-
ial so as to know the condition within the fountain pen bar-
rel from outside. Therefore the insistence in the argument
cannot be upheld.

=== Page 144 === (confidence 0.98)
1, 989,351
Crovell Batent

=== Page 145 === (confidence 0.98)
Jan. 29, 1935.
1,989,351
L. A. CROWELL
FOUNTAIN PEN AND OTHER MARKING MEANS
Filed Jan. 18, 1934
2 Sheets-Sheet 1
Fig.2
Fig.4
17
12
19
Fig. 1
Fig.3
11
NON-TRANSPARENT
18
17
20
12
19
21
-11
18
10
20
-13
20
21
20
21
21
NON-TRANSPARENT
-10
10
10
TRANSPARENT
13
13
17
15
16
22
14
22
-23
23
22
23
16
Twentor:
LuciusA.Crowell
By
Grau Lefefft
Gtty.

=== Page 146 === (confidence 0.96)
Jan. 29, 1935.
1,989,351
L. A. CROWELL
FOUNTAIN PEN AND OTHER MARKING MEANS
Filed Jan. 18. 1934
2 Sheets-Sheet 2
29
Fig. 5
30 31
Kig.6
35 36 34
37
Fig. 7
39
40
Inwentor
Lucius A. Crowell
By
Trau D.Jifft GItty.

=== Page 147 === (confidence 0.97)
Patented Jan. 29, 1935
1,989,351
UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE
1,989,351
FOUNTAIN PEN AND OTHER MARKING
MEANS
Lucius A. Crowell, Chicago, Ill., assignor to The
Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wis., a cor-
peration of Wisconsin
Application January 18, 1934, Serial No. 707,088
In Mexico October 21, 1933
14 Claims. (Cl. 120—42)
This invention relates to fountain pens and
spectively to non-transparent zones in the mate-
other marking means (such, for example, as pen-
rial of the other parts of the device, the arrange-
cils) wherein the .barrel portion thereof serves
ment being such that, after the reservoir is fiiled,
as a reserveir :or container for the writing fluid
the exterior appearance of the article is uniform
:5 or marking element. This application is a con-
throughout when the article is subjected to re-
5
tinuation-in-part of my copending application.
flected light while the transparent zones of the
Berial No. 93,063, led Octaber 11, 1933.
barrel retain their ability to indicate the internal
In the :use of a fountain pen of the foregoing
condition of the barrel when the latter is sub-
character, it is quite an advantage to be able to
jected to transmitted light.
10 determine the amount of ink contained within
A further object is to provide a fountain pen or 10
the barrel without the necessity of manipulating
the like having the foregoing characteristics and
any of:the feed or filling parts thereof. This is
wherein the non-transparent barrel zones are of
partteularly true in the case of fountain pens of
color contrasting with the exterior color appear-
thergeneral type disclosed in the Dahlberg Patent
ance of the transparent barrel zones after the
15
No..1,904,358 dated April 18, 1933. For example,
ink or other writing fluid is placed in the barrel,
15
if one, m order to determine the amount of ink
and wherein the alternating zones of the other
in the barrel, were to manipulate the filling
parts of the article are contrastingly colored to
mechanism.of:such:a pen, a large amount of ink
correspondingly agree in external appearance
might berexpelled; and, in the hands of a careless
with the barrel zones after ink or other writing
20 persen, it is guite :probable that the ink would
fluid is placed in the barrel.
20
berexpeled. unintentionally with resultant smear-
A more specific object is to provide in a fountain
ing. It will be appreciated that this condition
pen having a barrel serving as an ink reservoir
might.be taken. care of by the use of a barrel
and formed of a material having alternating
formed wholly of a transparent material, but such
transparent and non-transparent zones, a pen
25 a barrel would fall far short of practical appear-
section and caps mountable upon the opposite 25
ance requirements :in the finished article. More
ends of the barrel formed of a material having
particularly, in that.case there would be a very
alternating non-transparent zones therein,
objectiomable appearance difference. between the
wherein the non-transparent barrel zonesand one
pen barrel and .the other parts of the article
set of alternating zones of the pen section and
180
(such as pen section, caps,.etc.) when the barrel
caps correspond in shape, size and color and the 80
is. either filled with ink or empty or in both cases.
other set of zones of the pen section and caps
In. every case, it is highly desirable that the
correspond in shape, size and color to the ex-
articlepresent auniform exterior appearance. It
ternal appearance of the transparent barrel zones
is customary in many instanoes to produce def-
when ink is placed in the barrel and the latter
85
inite.esterior-appearing color combinations in
is subjected to reflected light.
85
the finished article. The thought of uniform ex-
An additional object is to provide a fountain
ternal appearance would, of course, be defeated
barrel or the like formed of a plurality of rel-
in this datter case in the use.of a barrel trans-
atively shallow transparent rings or sections and
parant. throughout. According to my invention,
non-transparent rings or sections, said rings or
40
this problem.is.solved from both mechanical and
sections being superimposed and integrally joined 40
appearanee standpoints .by. forming the parts of
together with the transparent rings or sections
the devise.in.a .certain distinctive way.
alternating with the non-transparent ones.
One of.the objests of my invention is to provide
 fountain pen, pencil, or. the like, of the fore-
Other objects and advantages will become ap-,
65
going chanacter. which has a uniform external
parent as this description progresses and by
45
appearance .throughout when .subjected to re-
reference to the drawings wherein,
flected dight and which has a barrel or handle
Figure 1 is an elevational view of one form of
portlon adapted, when.subjected to transmitted
fountain pen embodying my invention, the same
isht, sto mdicate, the +level or. condition of the
being shown in closed or carrying condition and
80 tak, or the like, therein.
without ink in the barrel;
50
Another: objest is to provide.a. fountain pen or
Fig. 2 is a view similar to Fig. 1, except for
thetike, having a barrel or handle part adapted
the pen cap members are shown partially in sec-
torserveras a reservoir, the barrel being formed of tion and in detached relation;
material davimg adternating transparent and
Fig. 3 is a view similar to Fig. 1 except illus-
as momstmsmpesemtasemesthecein:cerrespending re- trating the pen with the barrel filled with ink;
45

=== Page 148 === (confidence 0.99)
1,989,851
Fig. 4 is a view showing the pen of Fig. 3 in objectionable conditions and provides a pen
open or writing condition;
which presents a uniform exterior appearance
Fig. 5 is a side view of a rod of material from throughout when subjected to reflected light (as
which the barrel of Figs. 1 to 4 may be formed;
when lying on a table desk or the like), but which
5
Fig. 6 is a fragmentary perspective view of a
has a barrel of such a character that when it is
6
tube made from which a barrel for another form
submitted to transmitted light (as when held be-
of my invention may be made; and
tween the eye and a light), the level and condi-
Fig. 7 is a side view of a modifled form of rod
tion of the ink therein is indicated.
from which a barrel for still another form of my
In carrying out the invention, with respect to
10 invention may be made.
the structure disclosed in the drawings, the bar- 10
My invention is well adapted to fountain pens
rel 10 is formed of a plurality of alternating
of that type wherein the barrel serves as an ink
transparent and non-transparent rings, annular
reservoir, such as that disclosed in the above-
sections, zones or laminations 20 and 21 which
identifled Dahlberg patent. It is to be under-
are integrally joined to form a continuous barrel
15
stood, however, that the invention is not limited
structure. The pen section 11 and the caps 16 15
to this particular use and that it has utility in
and 17 are likewise formed of a plurality of su-
all environments where similar mechanical and
perimposed and integrally joined rings, annular
appearance requirements exist.
sections, zones or laminations 22 and 23. The
Referring particularly to the drawings, the
term "non-transparent" as used herein is in-
20 fountain pen which I have chosen to illustrate the
tended to include both opaque materials and ma- 20
invention includes a reservoir barrel 10 which
terials having some translucency.
supports a pen section 11 at its forward end.
The transparent barrel sections or zones 20 are
The pen section supports ink feeding means which
comparatively shallow and correspond substan-
includes the pen 12 which may take any suitable
tially in size and shape to the pen section and
25
form.
cap sections or zones 22. The non-transparent 25
The rear end of the barrel 10 supports filling
barrel sections or zones 21 correspond substan-
mechanism 13, including a reciprocable finger
tially in size and shape to the sections or zones
piece or plunger 14 which projects beyond the
23 of the other pen parts. Furthermore, the sec-
rear end of the barrel. The filling mechanism
tions 22 of the pen section and caps are of such
30
13 further includes a threaded sleeve portion 15
color that they have substantially the same ex-
30
which projects from the rear of the barrel for
terior appearance as that given to the barrel sec-
guidance of the finger piece or plunger 14 and for
tions 20 by ink upon the placing of ink within
support of a cap 16 which encloses the projected
the barrel as illustrated in Fig. 3; whereby the
parts of the filling mechanism.
entire exterior appearance of the pen, whether in
35
A cap 17 is employed for closing the writing
its closed or open position (Figs. 3 and 4) is sub-
35
end of the pen in the so-called carrying or closed
stantially uniform throughout when the pen is
position of the fountain pen. This cap is adapt-
subjected to reflected light. However, the com-
ed, in the closed position of the pen, to be screwed
paratively shallow transparent zones 20 of the
upon the exterior threaded part 18 of the barrel
barrel retain the ability to indicate ink level and
40
(Fig. 1) and, in the open position of the pen, it
condition within the barrel when the latter is
40
is adapted to be friction-fitted upon the rear end
subjected to transmitted light, as when the barrel
of the barrel (Fig. 4) in a manner which will be
is held between the eye and a light. In this
well understood. The interior of the cap 17 may
manner, both the mechanical and appearance ad-
have suitable sealing means (not shown) cooper-
vantages hereinabove named are attained.
45
ating with the forward end or shoulder 19 of the
The foregoing arrangement is well suited for 45
pen section 11 for sealing the writing end of the
pens formed of a material having contrastingly
fountain pen in the closed position of the latter
colored zones therein. For example, the non-
in a manner well known.
transparent zones 21 of the barrel and the non-
As hereinabove pointed out, it is not only de-
transparent zones 23 of the pen section 11 and
50 sirable that one be able to determine the level and
caps 16 and 17 may be of one color while the 50
condition of the ink within the barrel without op-
non-transparent zones 22 of the pen section and
erating the pen feeding and filling means, but it
caps may be of a contrasting color similar to that
is also essential from practical appearance stand-
which the ink gives exteriorly to the transparent
points for the pen to present a uniform external
barrel sections 20 when ink is placed in the
55
appearance throughout. The several parts of
barrel. In this manner, the ink or writing fluid 55
the pen, including the barrel, pen section and
becomes an element in producing uniform ap-
caps might be made from a transparent material
pearance rather than an agent destroying uni-
but, in that case, when ink is placed in the barrel
form appearance. Once the barrel has been
uniform appearance is destroyed. Also, the fill-
filled with ink, and the interior thereof stained
60
ing plunger or finger piece 14 would be visible
somewhat, the uniform appearance effect under'
through the cap 16, and the pen 12 and/or the
the influence of reflected light will be substan-
sealing means within the cap 17 would be visible
tially maintained regardless of lowering of the
through such cap thereby presenting an un-
level of the ink in the barrel; but, at all times.
sightly appearance. If the pen section 11 and
lowering of ink level will be indicated when the
65
caps 16 and 17 were made from a non-transparent
barrel is subjected to transmitted light.
65
material to avoid these latter conditions, while
The barrel 10 may be formed in any desired
making the barrel from a transparent material,
manner. Any suitable kind of material adapted
the exterior appearance would still be unbalanced
to the purpose stated may be employed. I have
with or without ink in the barrel, particularly
found that pyroxylin material may take the form
70
at the forward part of the barrel at the point of
of transparent and non-transparent sheets suit- 70
connection between the pen section 11 and barrel
ably joined to provide a block structure from
and at the rear of the barrel at the point of con-
which a rod 29, such as that shown in Fig. 5,
nection between the latter and the filling mech-
may be cut or otherwise formed. These rods
anism 18.
include alternating transparent and non-trans-
75
This invention entirely avoids the foregoing parent sections 30 and 31 (corresponding to the: 75

=== Page 149 === (confidence 0.99)
1,089,951
3
barrel'sections 20 and 21) extending circumferen-
joined to provide a continuous tubular structure.
tially or transversely of the axis of the finished
3. The handle of a marking device consisting
tube. Each rod (Fig. 5) is bored or otherwise
of a narrow series of parallel strips of alternating,
treated to form a tube. The tube is then finally
transparent, and non-transparent material joined
shaped and finished to the form of the barrel
together integrally to provide a continuous tubu-
5
shown in Figs. 1 to 4, inclusive. The pen section
lar structure.
11 and caps 16 and 17 may be similarly formed.
4. In a writing instrument, a barrel adapted to
except for the substitution of the proper kind
serve as a reservoir for a writing fluid. said barrel
of non-transparent and barrel-matched pyroxylin
being formed throughout of a material having
10
sheets.
narrow longitudinally disposed alternating trans-
10
In some cases, the material from which the
paren: and colered non-transparent zones. the
rod of Fig. 5 is formed may be cut and wound
ize and arrangement of said zones being such
in any suitable manner to provide a tube 34 like
that when the barrel contains substantially vary-
that shown in Fig. 6. In that case, there are pro-
ing quantities of writing fiuid the external trans-
15
vided alternating transparent and non-trans-
paren' appcarance of the barrel is substantially
15
parent zones 35 and 36 that take the forn of
ciminated in reflected light without impairing
spirals extending from one end of the barre!
the ability of the transparent zones to indicate,
to the other. A finished barrel may be formed
wien subjected to transmitted light, writing fuid
from the tube 34 (Fig. 6) in any desired manner.
level within the barrel as the writing fluid is fed
20
Also, if desired, rods 37, similar to that shown
by said feeding means.
20
in Fig. 7, may be cut from suitable material.
5. In a marking instrument, a barrel adapted
These rods are so formed that longitudinally
ss a a reervoir for a writing fluid. said
extending and circumferentially alternating
ho rrcl bens formed throughout of a plurality of
transparent and non-transparent zones 39 and 40
naiew and integrally joined and longitudinally
25
are provided therein, or in the tube or barrel
'enating transparent and colored non-trans-
25
formed therefrom. Barrels having similarly ar-
 bands. the size and arrangement of said
ranged zones therein may be formed from sheets
nds being such that when the barrel contains
of suitable material having therein the desired
:b antually varying quantities of ink. the in-
transparent and non-transparent zones, the
ternally-covered transparent bands present a
30
edges of which sheets are integrally fused or
ub tantially external non-transparent appear-
30
joined in any suitable manner to provide a tube
ance when viewed in a reflected light while re-
from which the barrel is made.
faining the ability to indicate writing fluid level
While I have not illustrated complete pen
wit in the barrel when the barrel is held between
structures embodying the forms of Figs. 6 and
11:e eye and a light.
7, it will be understood from the foregoing that
6. In a markine instrument. a barrel adapted 35
the structures of Figs. 6 and 7 are adapted to
to : ery: as a reservoir for a writing fluid and
be shaped in any suitable manner to provide bar-
bavin: a pen rection extension at its forward end.
rels, caps and pen sections similar to the corre-
incans n ounted within and carried by said pen
sponding parts shown in Figs. 1 to 4 inclusive.
re tien for feeding writing fluid from the barrel.
40
In some instances, variegated material may be
id berrel being formed throughout of a material
used in forming the pen parts and the alternating
baving narrow circumferentially alternating and
zones in the material may be of irregular shape
Jongitudinally-extending transparent and colored
and size but matched in this regard throughout
non-transpaent zones therein. the transparency
the barrel, pen section, etc. In all of the fore-
of the transparent zones being such that when
:45
going cases the resultant tube or barrel part is
ink is contained within the barrel in substantially
45
ground and polished to the desired dimensions
varying quantities the exterior appearance of the
and shape.
barrel is substantially that of opaqueness when
It is believed that the features and advantages
viewed in reflected light while retaining the
of my invention will be understood from the
ability to indicate, upon lowering of the writing
50
foregoing. In carrying out my invention it is
fluid level within the barrel. writing filuid level
possible to produce many desirable color effects
within the barrel upon subjecting the barrel to
and color combinations not attainable with prior
transmitted light, and said pen section being
methods of manufacture and assembly; while, at
formed of similarly arranged non-transparent
the same time, providing a barrel which func-
zones matched in color with said barrel zones as
55
tions in effect as a visual gauge without impair-
the latter appears when the barrel is filled with 55
ing exterior appearance balance of the pen.
the writing fluid.
It is to be understood that, while I have shown
7. In a writing instrument, a barrel adapted to
only one form of fountain pen structure embody-
serve as a reservoir for a writing fluid and having
ing my invention, my invention is well adapted to
a pen section at its forward end, means mounted
60
other forms of pens, writing instruments, and
within and carried by said pen section for feed-
60
the like, where the advantages described are de-
ing the writing fluid from the barrel, said barrel
sired. It is to be further understood that while
being formed throughout of a material having
I have shown and described several forms of my
narrow longitudinally spiraled and alternating
invention, further changes in details and ar-
transparent and colored non-transparent zones
65
rangements of parts may be made without depart-
therein, the arrangement being such that when
65
ing from the spirit and scope of my invention
the interior of the barrel is stained by ink, the
as defined by the claims which follow.
exterior appearance of the barrel is that of
I claim:
opaqueness when subjected to reflected light while
1. The handle of a marking device consisting
the said transparent zones retain the ability to
70 of a series of shallow coaxial, alternating, trans-
indicate marking fluid level within the barrel
70
parent and non-transparent rings integrally
when the barrel is subjected to transmitted light,
joined to provide a continuous tubular structure.
and said pen section being formed of similarly
2. The barrel of a fountain pen consisting of a
arranged zones all non-transparent and matched
series of shallow coaxial, perforated, alternating,
in color and shape with said barrel zones when the
75 transparent, and non-transparent disks integrally
barrel has been filled with the writing fluid.
75

=== Page 150 === (confidence 0.99)
1,989,851
8. In a marking instrument, a barrel adapted handle-like extension on said barrel, said barrel
to serve as a reservoir for a writing fluid, said
being formed throughout of a material having
barrel being formed throughout of a material
narrow longitudinally alternating transparent
having narrow longitudinally alternating trans-
and non-transparent zones, the size and arrange-
5
parent and non-transparent zones therein, the
ment of said zones being such that when said
5
non-transparent zones being of a color contrast-
barrel contains substantially varying quantities
ing with the color of the writing fluid, the ar-
of writing fluid the external transparent appear-
rangement being such that when any appreciable
ance of the barrel is substantially eliminated in
quantity of writing fluid is contained within the
reflected light without impairing the ability of
10
barrel the exterior appearance of the barrel is
the transparent zones to indicate, when subjected
10
one of contrastingly colored zones alternated
to transmitted light, writing fluid level within the
longitudinally of the barrel without transparent
barrel. and said pen section and said cap being
appearance when subjected to reflected light with
formed of similarly arranged alternating zones all
said transparent zones retaining the ability to
non-transparent matched in size and form with
15
indicate, as the writing fluid is fed, writing fluid
id barrel zones as the latter appear when the
15
level when the barrel is subjected to transmitted
barrel is filled with the writing fluid, whereby the
light.
writing instrument is of uniform external appear-
9. A barrel for a fountain pen composed of
ance throughout said barrel, cap and pen section
narrow alternating transparent and non-trans-
extension, in both its open and closed positions,
20
parent areas, the width of the transparent areas
in reflected light.
20
not exceeding the width of the non-transparent.
13. A fountain pen having a barrel composed
areas, the transparent and non-transparent areas
of integrally joined alternating transparent and
being integrally joined to provide a continuous
non-tran:parent rings, the relative proportions of
tubular structure.
the transparent and non-transparent rings being
25
10. A fountain pen having a barrel composed
Such that the said barrel appears substantially
25
of integrally joined alternate transparent and
"holly non-transparent in reflected light and is
opaque strips, the relative proportions of the
suflicien'ly transparent when exposed to trans-
transparent and opaque strips being such that
itted light to expose the level of writing fluid
the barrel presents a substantially opaque ap-
icrein, and a cap being formed of similarly
30
pearance in reflected light, and is sufficiently
rranged alternating rings all non-transparent
30
transparent when exposed to transmitted light to
and substantially matched in size and form with
disclose the level of the writing fluid therein.
:id rings as the latter appear when viewed in
11. A fountain pen having a barrel composed
tiected light and when the barrel is filled with
of integrally joined alternately transparent and
the writing fluid.
35
opaque areas, the relative proportions of the
14. A fountain pen having a barrel composed
35
transparent and opaque areas being such that
of integrally joined alternating transparent and
the said barrel appears substantially solidly
non-t ransparent areas, the relative proportions of
opaque in reflected light, and is sufficiently trans-
he transparent and non-transparent areas being
parent when exposed to transmitted light to dis-
:uch that the said barrel appears substantially
40
close the level of writing fluid therein.
wholly non-transparent in reflected light and is
40
12. In a writing instrument a barrel adapted
sufficiently transparent when exposed to trans-
to serve as a reservoir for a writing fluid, and
initted light to expose the level of writing fluid
having a pen section extension at its forward end,
therein. and a cap being formed of similarly
and a cap member adapted to be mounted over
arranged alternating areas all non-transparent
45
said forward barrel end in the closed position of
and substantially matched in size and form with
45
the writing instrument to conceal said pen sec-
said barrel areas as the latter appear when viewed
tion extension and also to be mounted over the
in reflected light and when the barrel is filled with
rearward end of said barrel in the open position of
the writing fluid.
the writing instrument to provide a rearward
LUCIUS A. CROWELL.

=== Page 151 === (confidence 0.99)
NAMES AND ADDRESSES OF JAPANESE MANUFACTURERS
OF INFRINGING STRUCTURES
Kawamoto Seisakusho Conpany
No. 17. 6-Bancho Kozu
(Catalogue inclosed)
Minami-ku
Osaka
Ishii Seisakujo
93, Tajima-cho, Asakusa-ku
(Advertisenent inclosed)
Tokyo
The Namiki Manufacturing Conpeny, Ltd.
Kyobashi, Tokyo
(Catalog inciosed)
Watanabe Seisakusho
(Reported by Dodge & Seymour,
Kyomachi-bori, 3-chome
our distributor in Osaka)
Nishi-ku, Osaka
They wrote us as follows on
August 2l: "We have obtained a
pen which is an exact imitation
of the Parker Burgundy laminated
Vacumatic in every detail. This
pen is menufactured by Watenabe
Seisakusho, Kyomachi-bori, 3-chome,
Nishi-ku, Ósake, Japan"
Kuki Manufacturing Company
Oa, Japan
(Reported by Australian distributor)
Our attorneys wrote us as follows
on October 9: A Sydney importer,
Mr. R. J. McLeod, had imported
into Australia from Japan a shipment
of fountain pens manufactured by
The Kuki Manshodo Pen Manufacturing
Company, Ltd., of Osaka, Japan
Ohkawa Shoten
179 Yahataya Nishikimachi
Minato-ku
Osaka, Japan
(Japan Exporter, December, 1936,
page 70)
The Saffron Vacuum Filler Pen Co.
(See copy of circular inclosed
with pens)

=== Page 152 === (confidence 0.98)
ISHIIS FOUNTAIN DEA
IN. ALL STYLES AND DESIGNS
Fountain Pen that saves writing costs
Varieties :
Ebonite, Lactoloid,
Celluloid
With Golden Pen or Com-
bination of stainless steel
and golden pen
Saves Every penny pos-
sible by minimizing waste of
materials and motions.
Saves ink by enabling the
use of every atom.
Saves paper by writing
continuously and smoothly.
Finest craftmanship
Handsome style
Excellent finish
and yet cheapest in prices.
Its firm, true, smooth work.
ing increase the value and
the volume of the work for
everybody who uses.
Sample assortment for
Ishif's fountain pen will be
sent for remittance of Yen
10.00.
Orders with special marks
to be engraved upon request.
MAKERS & EXPORTERS
ISHIISEISAKUJO
Tel. Asaknss (84) 5634
93, Tajima-eke, Asakusa-ks, Tokj
Bank: Kawasaki 100th Bank, Asakusa Branch, Tokyo
Factory: 12, 3-chome, Ishihama-cho, Asakusa-ku, Tokyo
PLEARN MENTION "JAPAN COMMERCIAL GUIDANCE" WHEN WRITING TO ADVERTIS

=== Page 153 === (confidence 0.98)
DOCUMENT FILE
NOTE
894.543
PROPHYLACTIC
894.542 Prophylactic Toothbr ush FOR MEM0: DUM.
SEE
Co./1
FROM
State Department
(Dooman
) DATED August 23. 1933.
Division of Far
NAME
1-1127
TO
Eastern Affairs
REGARDING:
Violation of Prophylactic Toothbrush
Co's. Trade-mark and patent rithts
by Japanese manufacturers.
hs
